
VOL. Ill. No. 83 StTJ!;,,... O~e f'.'t•tre iiQme and St. Mary's College Community TUESDAY, February 18,1969 
Hesburgh gives ·disruption penalties SMC students hear Fr. McGrath on dismissals 
University President issues statement AAUP norms On protest act/vies and limitations Upheld by pres. 
Speaking to a pm
University President Rev. Theodore M. Hesb~rgh, CSC, stated convocation of some I ,000 Saint

yesterday that students, faculty and others w~o m_volvc thc~Jselvcs 

Mary's students and faculty
in protest activities which disrupt normal Un1vers1ty operatiOn~ or 

members in O'Laughlin
infringe upon the rights of others will face immediate suspensiOn, Auditorium, Colege President expulsion and action by civil authorities. 

Msgr. John J. McGrath explained  
In an eight-page letter to the llnivcrsity community Hcsburgh · specifically explained what steps will be taken against "anyone or any group that substitutes force  deal with them as non-students." The letter emphasized that the law enforcement is not directed against students. "Only after three dear opportunities to  his views on the non-renewal of faculty contracts and the building of a faculty. McGrath stated that student opinion was important, but ultimately  
for  rational  persuasion,  be  it  remain in student status, if they  
 "faculty  members  must  be  
violent group  or non-violent." Such a "will be given fifteen  still insist on resisting the will of the community, are they then  SI.C discusses report  evaluated by their peers". Msgr. McGrath explained that  
minutes of meditation to cease and desist. They will be told they arc, by their actions, going count cr to the overwhelming conviction of this community as to what is proper here. If they do not within that time period cease and desist, they will be asked for their identity cards. Those who produce these will be suspended from this community as not understanding what this community is. Those who do not have or will not produce identity cards will be assumed not to be members of the community and will be charged with trespassing 'and disturbing the peace on private property and treated accordingly by the Jaw." The decision on whether University operations have been impeded or rights have been violated will be made by the Dean of Students. RecOllrse for students in such a situation will be the tripartite disciplinary board and the faculty will follow procedures outlined in the Faculty Manual. All judgments will be delivered within five days "for justice deferred is justice denied to all concerned" according to llesburgh. The letter went further, "After notification of suspension, or trespass in the case of non-community members, if there is not then within ·five minutes a movement to cease and desist, students will be notified of expulsion from this community and the law will  expelled and become non-students to be treated as other non-students, or outsiders." Hesburgh further stated, "We can have a thousand resolutions as to what kind of society we want, but when lawles~ness, is afoot, all authority is flouted, faculty, administration, and student, then we invoke the normal societal forces of law or we allow the university to die beneath our hapless and hopeless gaze. I have no intention of presiding over such a spectacle; too many people have given too much of themselves and their lives to this University to let this happen here. Without being melodramatic, if this conviction makes this my last will and testament to Notre Dame, so be it." "There seems to be a current myth that university members are not responsible to the Iaw, and that somehow the law is the enemy, particularly those who society has constituted to uphold and enforce the law. I would like to insist here that all of us are responsible to the duly constituted laws of this University community and to all of the laws of the land. There is no other guarantee of civilization versus the jungle or mob rule, here or elsewhere." Further on the letter states, "If someone invades your home, do you dialogue with him or call the law? Without the law, the university is a sitting duck for  The Student Life Council met last night in the Center for Continuing Education to discuss the Hall Life subcommittee's report. Beforc this, however, the question arose as to who had the authority to call the Student Life Council into emergency session. Four instances were noted. A meeting could be called by either the President of the University, the chairman of the SLC, one of the leading factions of the Council, or a petition of three members of the Council. Discussion of the matter will be continued at the next meeting. Discussion then centered on the provision in the Hall Life Report concerning the drinking of alcoholic beverages on campus. Father Bartell, chairman of the subcommittee, stated that the report restricts the University's position to that of advising students of Indiana State Law. As of now, University rules prohibit drinking on campus. Father Riehle, Dean of Students, says of his prefects, "If they see open drinking in the halls, they are to act on it." Due to uncertainty concerning Indiana State Law and the University's commitment to the rule of in loco parentis, the Council has reserved its decision on the issue until its next meeting. Dean Lawless, chairman of the SLC and Dean of the Notre Dame Law School, will, with a number  of his colleagues, investigate the legal side of the matter and report back ti. the Council. When the discussion reached the parietal hours section of the Hall Life Report, sentiment on the part of the Council was divided. Discussion revolved around whether or not students could be trusted to enforce visiting hour rules. To give support to the negative side of the argument, various members pointed to the leave of absence of the Honor council claiming a lack of responsibility on the part of the students for not reporting incidents of cheating. Council members Michael McCauley and Richard Rossie severely attacked this idea, saying it did not prove that students lack responsibility. McCauley, after talking to a number of students on the subject, stated that many were confused and indignant over the Honor Council's action. He said that they did not feel that cheating was rampant on the campus. Rossie blamed the lack of cases before the Honor Council on the Council's lack of proper communication with the Student Body. He felt that they had failed to sufficiently inform the students of their obligation concerning the Honor Concept. According to Christopher Wolfe, however, "significant amount of cheating is going on . .. There is no doubt in my mind at all." Wolfe also felt that students would not turn in another student for a violation  the American Association of University Professors was a professional group which offered guidelines for ethical standards and norms of conduct for faculty members. McGrath stated that the present Board of Trustees has adopted the norms of the A.A.U.P. for Saint Mary's College, and "at no time have the standards of the A.A.U.P. been violated". Msgr. McGrath further explained that the Rank and Tenure Committee, is composed of a department head and two senior members of a department whose member is being evaluated, as well as two faculty mernbers elected at large, the Academic Dean and the VicerPresident or Provost of the college. The Rank and Tenure Committee meets to discuss cases of promotion in rank, and the granting of tenure. McGrath stated that the Rank and Tenure Committee is "faculty dominated. Faculty members are judged by their peers" Department members seated on the committee have an opportunity to speak for or against the promotion or grant of tenure to a particular faculty member. The four permanent members of the committee then submit a recommendation to the President. When questioned on the possibility of over-ruling the recommendation of the Rank and Tenure Committee, Msgr. McGrath replied that it "has never happened while I have been President"  


continued on page 6 


Voor decides against indictment 
· 1 t ·d the administration after
"t J os lh County Prosecutor the Grand Jury. Voor stlpU a e I . t h d b I d d .". · ' · , d however, that the decision comp am s a een ° ge,
William E. Voor, Jr.•mnounce . d against several films in SUAC s yesterday that there was no applies only to students an Conference on Pornography and action at yesterday's Grand Jury faculty members. C e n so r ship. A spec i a I 
d h t :"If there is action, it will

meeting in regar to t c rccen subcommittee of the Student seizure ~f _an alledgedly probably be against Andrew Life Council is preparing an pornographic film a week and a Noren, the producer of 1\ odak offici a I history of the 
half ago. . Ghost l'ocms," said Voor. "But Conference and will recommend "I decided not to brmg the in light of Fr. Hesburgh's action by the University in the 
case up at all," said Voor, "so statement, I doubt that we will . tt there will be no indictment, at be initialing action against any m\~~-statement that Voor le'·•st at this meeting." The University people or the e t
referred to in his announcemen

Grand Jury meets on a monthly University itself." b 
was yesterday's letter y

basis and remains in session until J\ odak (;host l'ocms," was University President Theodore
the docket is clear. seized Feb. 7 by several St. f
llesburgh which outlined vtureAlthough Voor's statement is Joseph County sheriff's deputies 

University action against

not legally binding and may not in a raid which saw two f
violators of the free operation o

represent a final decision, it is an poMcernen and several others ..1 b · the University or the rights of
indication that there will be no injured. The 11 m was emg '>lher comm~ members.
prosecution at later meetings of shown in defiance of a ban bY 
continued on page 7
continued on page 6 
on the inside ... 

-White Racism Conference, page 2 -Kay Markle on the weeks news, page 4 
-Tim O'Meilia on who sits where at ND and why, pageS 
Rossie announces Special Presidential Committee, page 6 -Wilson Fellowships to five, page 7 
PAGE 2 7HF 08Jt'RVER TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1969 

Federal law ends aidl 
An administrative official of Fr. James Riehle C.S.C., Dean 
the U.S. Office of Education has of Students, said that since the 
announced that the Office of law applies to state institutions 
Education is now trying to which receive support from 
determine means of enforcing a public taxation, Notre Dame, as 
new law which requires state a private institution, would not 
colleges and universities to be affected by such a law. 
discontinue federal aid to However, Fr. Riehle said that in 
students involved in campus a sense Notre Dame is moving in 
disruptions. the direction of being considered 
The law is actually a part of a public institution because of an education bill passed last fall, the number of students who but enforcement of the law is receive federal aid from the still being considered. government, but at present does 
Herman Allen, director of the not come under this law. Office for Higher Education, Currently the Wisconsin State said that the individual colleges Assembly, in reaction to the and universities must determine disruption on the Wisconsin which students are in violation University Campus is considering of the law. He does not feel the a similar bill fer approval. law is a "dead letter," but was Edward M. McManus, state unable to say exactly when executive director of th~ enforcement of the law would Wisconsin Chapter of tlH' 
1------------------------------------------..._b_e_g_in_.-------~----,American Civil Liberties Union 
t-asked that a hearing be held before giving approval to such a bill. According to Mr. McManus, the Wisconsin Senate "rushed this bill through without a hearing, although one had been scheduled." 

"Legislation of this magnitude should be given calm and careful consideration and not be railroaded through the legislature in the excitement of the moment," McManus said. 
Conference On racism 
The Committee on V/hite Racism will present a week-long conference, February 23-27, on White Racisnt. The conference, entitled "WAR: War Against Racism," will consist of lectures, movies, and small group discussions. 
The Committee is made up of the twelve Notre Dame delegates to the National Student Association's White Racism Conference held at Notre Dame during the Thanksgiving holidays, and is chaired by Phil McKenna. 
McKenna said last night of the conference's purpJse: "We want to make the students aware of White Racism on both the Campus and in the Society.'· 
The tentative speakers For the Conference include Rev. Jesse Jackson, the head of Operation
• 
Bread Basket, Father Groppi,

you're right. But not home radios for music, news, 
from Milwaukee, and Mrs. Alice Nixon, an expert on Negro Folklore. Four workers from the Chicago gl·,ettocs will also speak. The last day of the conference 


weather and sports. Collins does ... 
• Supply communication/navigation equipment for more 
will be devoted especially to

CAREER OPPORTUNITIES: • Product Design and Development •
than 75% of the world's commercial airliners. 
Racism at Notre Dame.

Field Support Engineering • Electronics Research • Data Operations 
• Provide voice communication systems for all U. S. 
McKenna also said, "We

• Programming and Systems Analysis • Purchasing • Accounting • 
Systems Design Engineering • Manufacturing • Technical Writing • 
would like to see that the

space flights. 
Process Engineering • Integrated Circuitry Design • Microelectronic 
students take what they have

• Rank as the largest independent producer of micro­
Thin Film Design • Reliability Engineering • Quality Engineering 
learned at the conference and 

wave systems. 
MARKETS AND PRODUCT AREAS: • Aviation Systems • Broadcast • 
put it into action." 

Specialized Military Systems • Telecommunication • Microwave
• Design and manufacture computer systems for airlines, 
• Space Communication • Computer Systems • Amateur Radio 
CABERFAE

railroads and many other military and industrial organiza­
tions around the world. 
Collins representatives will conduct campus interviews: 

REVISITED 

• Serve as prime contractor on NASA's worldwide Apollo 
March 3, 1969 tracking network. 
Need a break?

Or you may send your resume, in confidence, to Man­• Design and install complete earth stations for satellite 
Come ski with us this weekend.

ager of Professional Employment, Collins Radio Company, communications. 
Signups-

Dallas, Texas 75207; Cedar Rapids, Iowa 52406; Newport• Rank as one of the world's leading manufacturers of 
tonight

Beach, California 92660; or Toronto, Ontario.
commercial broadcast equipment. 
7:00 118 NSH

COMMUNICATION /COMPUTATION /CONTROL 
What does this mean to you? It means that college gradu­
ates are finding assignments that challenge their ingenuity 
in activities ranging from microminiaturization to airborne ~ 
The Observer is ~ublished daily during the college semester except

computers. COLI..INS 
vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame.

At each of Collins' four· major facilities, opportunities 
Subscriptions may be purchased 
for $10 from The Observer, Box

~ 
exist in electrical, mechanical, and industrial engineering, 
11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre

an equal opportunity employer 
and in computer science. 
Dame, Ind. 46556 

j 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1969 7HE OBSERVER PAGE 3 
Smoking clinic to open soon 
The Psychology department Prof. Whitman explained that According to him, "the aversion
THE WORLD TODAY 
Pope warns of 'very grave error' 
VATICAN CITY (UPI) -Pope Paul VI warned yesterday that 
priests who want to marry or enter into other aspects of ordinary 
human life have fallen into a "very grave error" that can paralyze the 
priestly vocation. 
The Pope delivered his warning in a speech to Rome Lenten preachers. rt came as pressures for ending priestly celibacy arc mounting in various parts of the world, especially Holland, and have even reached in to Italy in recent weeks. 
The Pope made clear he was not concerned only with the celibacy 
question but with the broader problem of priests seeking to take up 
a life like other mt'n as a means of making contract with modern 
society. 
Witnesses tell how they fought mob 
LOS ANGELES (UPI)-Two witn..:sscs told yesterday how they 
fought off a frenzied crowd cursing and screa?1ing to get at Sirhan ~­
Sirhan and take vengeance for the shootmg of Sen. Robert F. 
Kc11nedy. . 
Gigantic former football player Roosevelt Gner and . Jess M. 
Unruh, former speaker of the California assembly and chamn_an ?f 
t.hc Kennedy for president campaign, testified for the proscc~t10n m 
the seventh week of the murder trial of the 24 year old Sirhan, a 
l'ale~tinian Arab. 
l.'11 nth accompamcd police to the station where they took Sirhan 
and said the defendant told him, "I did it for my country," when 
asked why he shot the New York Senator. 
Unruh said he did not want to sec;: repetition of the Lee Oswald 
Case. Oswald, President John F. Kennedy s assassin, was shot to 
death by Jack Ruby while in the custody of Dallas police. 
8 -52 bombers raid Cong strongholds 
SAIGON (lJI'I) -U.S. Air Force 1352 jets bombed Viet Cong strong~10lds in jungles near Saigon yesterday night 20 minutes after tltc end of an allied lunar new year cease fire. Shock waves from the blitz rolled across the capital. 
The U.S. command said eight Americans were killed and 71 wounded in I 2 Communist violations of the truce that included a charge on a Marine outpost in South Vietnam's norther reaches. Overall, spokesmen said allied forces killed 96 VietCong and North Vietnamese. 
The 135 2 squadrons ranged over thick jungles 31 miles northeast of Saigon at 6'20 p.m. Monday and unloaded their cargoes of 500 pound and 750 pound bombs on targets pinpointed by American infantry units trying to prevent a Communist Tet offensive. 
Nixon and Dobrynin confer in capital 
WASIIIN(;TON (UPI) -President Nixon and Soviet Ambassador Anatoli Dobrynin conferred for the first time yesterday at ~n hour long meeting. It was believed they at least touched on maJor East West differences. . 
"All 1can say is that the meeting lasted one hour and it was a very constructive meeting," reported White House Press Secretary Ronald Ziegler. . 
lie declined to say if it was more than cour1 ~sy meetmg, traditionally made between new Presidents and foreignambassadors. But the length of the session in the President's oval o_fflce prompted speculation that the two probably discussed such major problem_s as the Middle East crisis, U.S. Soviet disarmament talks and poss1bly the nuclear nonproliferation treaty. 
Israelis raid Jordanian emplacements 
MIDEAST (UPI)-Israeli jet fighters swept into Jordan yesterday and uttackecl Arab guerrilla positions on the east bank of the Jordan River cease fire line. New Arab violence erupted in occupied Gaza, 1 
and Cairo reports told of mounting fears of Israeli reprisal raids 
across the Suez Canal tmce line with Egypt. 
Official Israeli spokesmen said jet fighter& went into action against Arab snipers concealed in vegetation along the east hank of the Jordan River after guerrillas attacked an Israeli ;1atrol 0.1 the west bank with bazooka rockets. The Israelis suffered no casualties, they 
sa~d. 
nROER IOOAY• 
Spaces for girls· names, oddreues, phones, occupations, vital meas­urements, birthdates, types, I i kes, dislikes, etc 
WARNING Keep thtt l:ttle Cat­anova Black Book from all pry­•nl female eyt1. 
YOUR BEST BUY AT .... 
soc 
POSlPA.ID 
GENCO SALES CO. P.O. Box 525 SALINA, KANSAS 
announced that it is now 
accepting interested participants 
from both Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's for its second semester 
smoking clinic. 
There are three basic goals which the clinic hopes to achieve. Professor Whitman, head of the program, outlined them basically as being, first to help the students reduce or stop entirely their habit. Second to develop new techniques to help others stop smoking, and lastly to evaluate existing techniques and their effectiveness. 
Professor Whitman stated that 
the main goal of the clinic is to 
reduce the student's smoking 
habit rather than stop it entirely. 
He felt that it is not so 
important that a person smokes, as the amount he smokes. Approximately twelve cigarettes is the cut off line. He stated that "If a person smokes fifteen cigarettes or so he might as well smoke the entire pack." 
About thirty students participated in the clinic that was held this past semester. According to Professor Whitman -about "seven out of eight persons reduced their habit significantly, but no one stopped 
permanently." 
There were three main tcchniqucs used in aiding to reduce the habit. The most effective turned out to be a group discussion. In it the students commented on why they smoked and how they felt about the relationship between smoking and their health. 
A second technique was designed to allow the students to usc any method they felt would be personally effective in breaking their habit. One technique used by several students was to recbrd each time they had a cigarette during the day. According to Professor Whitman "it makes the student more aware of the number of cigarettes he is smoking, and as a 
result he is able to cut down." 

the third method involves 
pairing smoking with an 
unpleasant experience. 
"Most people smoke because of the pleasant sensation they receive fromit. By associating smoking with a bad event we hope to disassociate this feeling," he said. 
"The students are put in a room where there is a large amount of smoke. As the students smoke the amount of smoke in the room reaches gagging proportions. Coupled with the fact that the students inhale rapidly, the amount of smoke destroys enjoyment of the taste of the cigarette. 
The findings so far, Professor Whitman said, show that the first technique is much more effective then the last one. 
method is successfui only on a short-range basis." 
The clinic to be conducted this semester is "going to combine the best characteristics of all three techniques." Prof. Whitman hopes for better results this semester due to the improvement in the techniques. The treatment will last six weeks, with a one hour session each week. The process of setting the clinic, and then evaluating the results takes up the rest of the semester. thirty students are expected to participate, but Prof. Whitman said that as many students that wanted could participate, "as long as the number of people did not reach unmanageable proportions." 
Yourfaculty advisorasl<s you for advice? 
Thinkitoveljover coffee. TheThink Drink. 
. 
For your own Th1nk Drink Mug, stnd 75C and your name and address to: .Think Drink Mua. De-pt. N, P.O. Bo~t 559, New York, N.Y. 10046. Thf"IOif'rnl on1l Coffe• Or11nrzll•on. 
Junior Parent -Son Weekend 

Ticket Sale 

Tues Feb 18 7:30-9:00pm 

Fiesta Lounge 
Luncheon Tickets $1.50/parent Pres. dinner Tickets $6.25/person Comm. breakfast Tickets $2.00/parent 
March 21, 22, 23 
r 
PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1969 





THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief 
Mary Michael Farnum, Senior Editor Paul Schroeder, Executive Editor 
Don Holliday, Managing Editor Betty Doerr, Chris Wolfe, Michael Patrick O'Connor, Don Hynes, Tom Ehrbar, Bill Mitchell, Tim O'Melia, Guy DeSapio Associate Editors Ted Price, News Editor 
David Stauffer, Copy Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
The Letter 
Yesterday University President Father Hesburgh attempted to lay 
down specific guidelines by which to control right-infringing protests. 
We were dismayed that the statement was not made in concurrence 
with the Student Life Council. We were under the impression, evidently 
mistaken, that the SLC was created just for such purposes. Two months 
ago the SLC passed a resolution supporting the general policy of the 
Student Manual and went so far as to form a subcommittee to consider 
the possibility of a statement similar to Hesburgh's. Nothing has come 
of it. We submit that the SLC is ignoring its responsibilities and 
defeating the purpose of its existence. And Father Hesburgh is ignoring 
the SLC by merely reading the "core" of it to the SLC without asking 
for their formulation. 
While we realize the need for a definitive set of guidelines to govern 
such situations as the Dow-CIA demonstration and the recent 
pornography conference incidents, we further submit that Father 
Hesburgh's formulations are not feasible. Demonstrators and the 
circumstances surrounding them are loosely structured and it is rarely 
possible to apply a set of time limits such as 15 and 20 minutes for 
suspension and expulsion. The uproar of a demonstration simply make 
it impossible. 
We further question the relationship of the Campus Judicial Board with the Dean of Students in the context of such a situation as described by Father Hesburgh. According to the Student Right section of the Student Manual a student is entitled to a trial as well as an appeal. A student falling under the circumstances of Father Hesburgh's demonstrations evidently has recourse to an appeal only. This apparent distortion of the law needs to be delineated carefully. 
As a point of curiosity it is interesting to read the sentence of the 
statement, "Without being melodramatic, if this conviction makes this 
my last will and testament to Notre Dame, so be it." Exactly what does 
that mean? 
The most central question here is not that a set of guidelines need be presented but by whom should they be made. We urge Father Hesburgh to include the Student Life Council on decisions of which it is rightly entitled to make and we demand, again, that the SLC begin making the decisions expected of it and not dismiss its responsibility to Father· Hesburgh. Its indecision has succeeded in bringing about the unilateralism its creation was supposed to eliminate. 

Kay Markle 

~'--'/ 
~· ·The week in the news 
Aside from the amusement provided by two girls from St. Mary's who wrote a letter to thee OESER VER describing Notre Dame in terms almost as childish as those used by an OESER VER columnist in describing St. Mary's ("Notre Dame jocks say 'duh."' "St. Mary's girls say 'duh."' Nyah, nyah, nyah.) and the further amusement provided by the OESER VER editor's assumption that if he rescued someone from the final deluge that person would in effect be granted salvation, this has been a quiet week. 
The teacher-dismissal crisis at St. Mary's was substantially aided by girls wearing red construction paper hearts on Valentine's Day and by someone outside of Student Government offering that Student Government would dissolve itself in order to put SMC in a position to lose its accreditation. This move was hastily put down by people in Student Government, who don't want to quit. The junior editors of the Scholastic' had a meeting to decide what to do after the senior editors leave; the senior editors fearing a coup such as: they pulled last year on their senior editors, have been nervously watching the junior editors ever since and publication of the Scholastic may grind to a halt any day now because no one has time to get any work done. WSND-FM went off the air three hours early Saturday night because of a momentary power failure which trapped the programming director in an elevator in O'Shaughnessy. Leaving the air early is illegal and the FCC ought to know about it. 
The St. Mary's coordinator of the Contemporary Arts Festival owes the chairman of the Contemporary Arts Festival $30 for tickets to the Chicago Symphony and refuses to pay up. A Notre Dame student who wants to be Student Union Academic Commisioner leaves St. Mary's library books in study carrels at Notre Dame and forgets them. A committee has been set up to slander Chuck Perrin. Betty Doerr is truly a nice person. Sixty-five percent of the returns on the Mardi Gras booths will be used to throw parties during Lent and, as a further note on Mardi Gras, six of the girls who went were not home-town honies and four of these had a good time. 
My roommate drives a white jeep and keeps leaving it in front of bars and her mother doesn't care. Parties thrown by the theater people here were recently rated by an impartial process as the dullest in South Bend, even when you include freshman class mixers. "Bitchin" was a title conceived of by the OESER VER editorial staff and I had nothing to do with it. Anyone who expects February in Indiana to end will be wildly surprised on Feb. 32nd. Repulsion made more people physically sick than any film ever before shown at Notre Dame. OESER VER 'editor Bill Luking was not on anyone's 
list of people to be saved. 
A quiz on the above information will be passed· out in all government, history, philosophy, English and Communication Arts: classes tomorrow. A high score will help you to avoid the draft. 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 18,1969 'THE OBSERVER PAGE 5 
ND Sports: Who sits on the fifty; and why 
by Tim O'Meilia 
Sccmxl in a five !XIrt series 
There has been much discussion among 
the freshmen and sophomores since 
basketball season began, or more 
appropriately, complaining. about the 
scaling arrangements at the Athletic and 
Convocation Center. 
The underclassmen arc seated in the 
bleachers beyond the regular seats while 
the juniors and seniors are located in the 
plush. individual seating of the lower 
arena. 
But what has been a great source of 
consternation to the whole of the student 
body is that the great majority of it has 
been seated behind the basket, which 
according to some, is more opaque than 
transparent. 
The man most directly responsible for 
determining the seating priorities at 
football, basketball and all events at the 
Convo Center is 1 icket Manager Robert 
M. Cahill, now in his 28th year in that position. Inevitably Cahill receives complaints from the student body at least once a year which require a conference with the Student Body President to resolve. Rarely, if ever, are policy changes made as a result of these consultations. 
Cahill recommends distribution policy to University Executive Vice President Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, CSC, who makes the final decisions. Invariably parents, alumni, students, and visiting teams complain about the dearth of scats and t h c i r Io cation. Determining seating priority is a thankless job at best. 
The qucstion is: if a university is for its students, why do they not sit at 
mid-court and on the SO-yard line·% ''We feel our first obligation is to the students, but not to take all the best scats in the place. In several years you will he alumni and will want good seating. I think we have an obligation to some who have helped build the place," Cahill said. He explained that for the privilege of buying a loge (box scat) at the Convo Center the customer was required to contribute a sizeable amount of money to the University, in the thousands of dollars. 
"The student should have the best of everything, I agree. I was a student once, too. I have gotten a better deal for students at away football games sometimes, than they were supposed to get," the ticket manager said. 
Fr. Joyce also commented on the student seating at basketball games. "I think it's unreasonable and selfish for the students to expect to sit in all the good seats. Our reason for constructing the Convocation Center is to provide facilities for the students all the time. In order to pay for it, we must have attractive seats year and Cahill later met with both Student Body President Richard Rossie and Student Union President Richard Rembusch to determine seating priorities within the prescribed area designated for students. 
Cahill also explained the reason why students were required to pay $12 for their season basketball ticket while they pay nothing for football. "Rather than include the basketball ticket price in the student's tuition we dicided it wouldn't be fair to make kids who didn't want to 
~ ..-~:-v~· -· :;-·• • --..~.--­
oo 

available for the people in the surrounding towns and the alumni. If a student wanted to sit somewhere else, he could purchase a season ticket like most of the people." 
The seating was discussed at an ad boc committee meeting in February of last see the games pay for them. So we made it optional. We gave the student body the information that we would hold 3,SOO seats for them. We actually held about a thousand more than that." 
Further Cahill said that the ushers are n,.,t particular about requiring ID cards. 
"We don't care if you give your ticket to 
your roommate, but we don't want 
non-students sitting in those seats." 
Joyce explained the monetary 
implications of charging the students. 
"The reason for that was problems with 
the new building. We want to make the 
building self-supporting, like we hope to 
do with the ice rink. It's only proper that 
those who use the rink pay a modest sum. 
"The small income we receive from the students for basketball tickets helps. And we have to establish a quota system for the students otherwise they would take up 6,000 of the 11.000 seats. We have to have a large incom from patrons besides students. It's simply a technique of determining who wants to come to the . games," Joyce concluded. 
The theory is that if the students were allowed to sit at mid-court and extend in both directions for free then scarcely one-half of the crowd would be paying any substantial sum for the games. The building would not have ~ chance to support itself. And if the students occupied the most desirable seats season ticket sales for the less advantageoL•~ vantage points would probably fall considerably. 
Such is not the case in football however, where every home game is a sellout. Cahill, however, believes that revenue would still be lost if the students were seated on the SO-yard line and extended in both directions. "For some games we would still sell the place out, but not for all games. Besides you couldn't do it. It wouldn't be fair. !low would you like it if you had been buying a season ticket for 30 years and then found out you were going to have to move to a worse seat. We are trying to take care of the Notre Dame family with as many tickets as we can allocate and in the best vantage points for each group. 
Joyce voiced the same opinions about displacing loyal season ticket holders. "Besides the way the student body has been acting at the games the past few years, I'd be ashamed to have them sit on the SO." 
(Tomorrow-Notre Dame athletics made more than $400,000 in 1967. From where· does it come and to where does it go?) 
•
The trouble with The Subject Was Roses 1s roses 
by Tom Ehrbar 
It reminds one of /,ong Dav 's .Journl!v Into 
Night, the explosive, piercingly brutal antagonism 
that can arise only out of the intimacy of day-to-day 
marrieC: life. While Patricia Neal and Jack Albertson 
are no Taylor and Burton, and while the script is 
weaker, The Subject Was Roses is unmistakably the 
same line all over again. 
The subject of The Subject Was Roses IS roses. A 
vase of red roses (obviously symbolizing romantic 
love or the like) is violently smashed in a frenzy of 
anger. It serves an apt metaphore for the film, for 
Roses is not a pretty portrayal of marital bliss. It 
offers a love that has decayed into despite and 
pettiness, and threatens to pervert a young man as he 
reaches for independence and self-assertion. 
The story line hangs tight and snug: one incident l~arefully juxtaposed after another, a heightening of intensit~·, ~ !::!iud groping for some resolution that never really comes. The film opens with a "Welcome Ilome" party for a 21 year old son returning from a war that has changed half the world, but hasn't touFhed the old tensions and inadequacies of his parents. And then the three of them husband, wife, and son, begin to maneuver. All are trapped within their o~n narrowness and selfishness, yet all try to piece together some form of harmony and peace. 
The husband is tainted by his impoverished childhood, t.:s severed singing career, his later days of carrousing, and pretensions of his own business successes. The wife has been hung up on an unnatural loyalty to a crippled relative, and subconsciously hopes tt'l ·gain her son's allegiance in projecting the guilt of unsuccessful marriage squarely on her husband's shoulders. The son, bolstered by the experiences of war, is merely trying to grow up, to find personal values, to define God and life in his own terms. His boyhood days are fraught only with frustration and anxiety from being played off one parent against another. And so he wants out. 
Roses then, subtley mingles these desires and conflicts-relying almost completely on dialogue to salvage the film from boredom. And the dialogue is good, at times bitter and poignant, yet also amusing and touching, as the moods are continually shifted about. 
The movie, adapted from Frank D. Gilroy's play, is cleanly done and manages to come off well even though one realizes finally that it should not have been made a film. It has much in common with The Graduate in this respect. Nichols and Ulu Bergstrom have both taken up their stories in film out of the desire to make a whole film, but not out of any sense of urgency. The Subject Was Roses, that is, does not demand the screen, as say, Blow-Up does. Film is a very large medium and Gilroy's screenplay presents only three chracters; despite the quick pans of New York City, the scene of the film is limited. The use of 
the lake scenes and the nightclub, are a sort of diffusion of the small apartment the family lives in. Everything would have been so much neater if all those tensions in the family had been photographed in the apartment which engendered them. 
It cannot be denied that some of the sequences outside the apartment are striking. Patricia Neal has fled the home after one serious argument and spends most of the day wandering on the Jersey shore; one long section of her wanderings is backed up by Judy Collins' "Albatross" and because these two extraordinary women both tellingly grasp for a sense of the sadness of things, the sound track of Collins and the film of Neal work beautifully together. Collins, in fact, becomes a younger version of Patricia Neal as the song about youth sets up a counterpoint to the desperation of middle age. 
Too often, however, the cinematography is wasted in trite shots of the whirl of the great white way or the clutter of a crummy walk up. When the vase of roses is shattered, for example, the camera follows the motion down and then focuses in on the shards and broken stems. But there is no reason for that: the roses are discarded in a dramatically overstated movement and their position on the floor never grows in significance for anyone in the room. They are there broken; they should have been photographed, if at all as they would have appeared on stage. 
The whole purpose of the roaming camera, moreover, is to make motion meaningful, to bring out the dynamics of visual relationships. A. movie must be kept moving, it must emphasize action -this seems to be the whole essence of the medium. 
Had the film opened up the action a little bit, broken away a little more from the dramatic script, and spent less time with character portrayal, it could have come out more cleanly smel)ing of roses. 
The Arts---­
FIL!VS 
The Fixer (Avon; 6:45, 9:00) The Subject Was Roses (Colfax; I :00, 3:00, 5:00, 7:00, 9:00) Three in the Attic (Granada; I :30,3:30, S:30, 7:30, 9: 30) Swiss Family Robinson (State; I:30,4:00,6:30, 9:00) 
MISC. In the Notre Dame Art Gallery, O'Shaughnessy IIall: West Gallery, "Paintings and sculpture from the Richard Brown-Baker Collection," and "Kinetic Sculpture" by Konstantine Milonadis. 

THE OBSERVER
PAGE 6 




Hesburgh allows fifteen minutes of meditation 
continued from page 1 
any small group from outside or Also in the letter the illegitimate means of dissent in of a university community. It 
University president stated, "I this kind of open society.
inside that wishes to destroy it, may well lead to a rebirth of 
believe that 1 now have a clear Violence was especially deplored fascism, unless we ourselves are
to incapacitate it, to terrorize it at whim. The argument goes-or mandate from this University as a violation uf everything that ready to take a stand for what is pas gone--invoke the Jaw and community to see that: I) our the University community right for us." you Jose the university lines of communication between stands for." 
community My only response is all segments of the community 
He concluded with, "I truly that Without the law you may are kept as open as ·possible, believe that we are about to ERROR! well Jose the university." with all legitimate means of witness a revulsion on the part 
The Observer erroneouslyHesburgh said he had the communicating dissent assured, of legislatures, state and reported yesterday that John"practically unanimous" support expanded, and protected; 2) national, benefactors, parents, Pavey, Associate Director ofof the Academic Council, the civility and rationality are alumni, and the general public African Studies Center at UCLA,Faculty Senate, the Student Life maintained as the mo~t for much that is happening in would speak Wednesday night atCouncil, some College Councils, reasonable means of dissent higher education today. If I read Saint Mary's College. Mr. Povcyand the Alumni Board. The within the academic community; the signs of the times correctly, will speak at Saint Mary'sstatements from those various and 3) violation of other's rights this may well lead to a tonight at 7:30 at Carroll Hall.
organizations were a result of a or obstruction of the life of the suppression of the liberty and ~H~e:,:::sb=ur!.!:g::!.h:....!:le::!t.!::te~r~o!..f~l~as!l:t__o.:N~o:.:.v:.... ..=2:.:::5~_U_n_iv_e_rsi.!_Y_ ~out:.:cla:.:._w_e.:..;d;;__-.::a:::.s-'a::.:t;;.:Itc:.o.::n..:.o::.:.m:.:.y_that are the lifebloocl 



Here'sone card from the establishment that no student will ever burn. 
YOUTH FA~E (ARD 
fOR AGES l'l TH~U 21

TWA 50/50 CLUB 
It's TWA's SO/SO Club Card. And if you're skiing, fly swimming, fly home, fly anywhere. between the ages of 12 and 21, it entitles you to TWA flies just about everywhere. See your fly TWA anywhere in the United States at travel agent, TWA Campus Representative or half-fare (and it's good for discounts on most stop by the local TWA office. Forget about other airlines too). Now's the time to get one, so classwork and flyTWA somewhere at h3lf­you can take off on your spring vacation. Fly fare. Even if your parents approve. 
TWA 
The things we'll do to make you happy. 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 18,1969 
Kelly to head South Bend 
Pres..comm. 
The formation of a Special Presidential Committee to bring· South Bend area university students into contact with the total South Bend community was announced by Richard Rossie today. 
Headed by Peter Kelly, the Committee's Notre Dame members include Mike Shaughnessy, Thomas Booker, Stephen Gable, John Wilson, Rich Moran, Dan Wegrocki, Thomas Nosek, and Bill Richardson. Contact will be made with the other south Bend universities within 3 weeks to set up "an inter-college board for community involvement." 
Rossie said that the Committee is intended to "end the attitude of student apathy to what goes on around us in the community as a whole" and the "traditional animosity" of South Bend residents to Notre Dame students. 
Rossie mentioned the United Health Fund, The Neighborhood Study Help Program, and labor relations as particular service projects that the committee would deal with. 

Petition 
The petition signed by over six hundred students in the wake of the Conference on Pornography and Censorship will be used by the students' bargaining committee in their dealings with the Student Life Council, said committee member David Kahn yesterday. 
The petition, was drawn up by a group of "concerned students" and circulated to the dining halls to protest the actions of the Administration and the Student Government in withdrawing their support of the 
Conference.  It  is  now  in  the  
hands  of  the  negotiating  
committee  formed  at  the  
LaFortune  Student  Center  

protest meeting two weeks ago. 
SLC discusses 
continued from page 1 
of the rules. 
Professor John Houck, in getting back to the issue at hand, pleaded with the Council not to "perpetuate outdated symbols" in reference to student-co-ed relations. He stated that we "have to find· new symbols" in dealing with parietal hours. 
Professor Edward Murphy felt the real issue at hand was the allowing of "fornication and adultery" on University grounds. 
Gregory Scott took issue with this saying the question of parietal hours was not one of moral standards but of whether the University was giving its students as broad an education as possible, especially concerning productive and , responsible relations with the opposite sex. 
The discussion continued in this vein until 6:00, at which time the Council adjourned until next Monday at 4:00, at which time they will either accept or reject the report. 
NOTICE: Will the student who borrowed the two Robert Kennedy's photographs from the SUAC display in the Library yesterday (Monday, Feb. 17th) return tnem immediately to Charles J. Nau, Jr. 148 Farley Hall. The photos are copyrighted and original prints. They must be returned to tne photographer. No questions will be asked. 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 19£9 'THE OBSERVER 


Five get Wilson Fellowships 
It was announced yesterday that five University of Notre 
I>a me seniors have been named as rcc1p1ents of coveted Woodrow Wilson Fellowships granted annually by the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation. 
The five seniors arc: Michael 
P. Anderson of Eric, Colorado, in Ma thcmatics; Harry E. Breen of Fort lee, New Jersey, in I· nglish literature; William L. Cullen of North Plainfield, New J crsey, in comparative literature; David C. Ticmcier of Cincinnati, Ohio, in Biochemistry; and Noel 1>. Wycliffe of Texarkana, Texas, in Political Science. 
The Woodrow Wilson Foundation provides full fellowship awards to the I, I 06 finalists in the national competition. 
Prior to 196R, the foundation nwde all the fellowship awards itself, with the help of funds front the Ford Foundation. Now, fellowship support comes primarily through the graduate schools, with the Wilson Foundation supporting the remainder of the designates. 
Irrespective of their source of support, the five Notre Dame each year to the outstanding designates will be awarded the graduate school prospects title of Woodrow Wilson Fellow. throughout the nation who plan 

The prestigious Woodrow to go into teaching on the Wilson Fellowships are awarded university level. 
Frick named advisor 
James Frick, Vice-President for Public Relations and Development at the University of Uotrc Dame, has been named a member of the national Urban Coalition's Financial Development Advisory Council, it was announced by John W. Gardner, Chairman of the Urban Coalition. 
Mr. Frick joined the staff of the University in I 9 51 after graduating from the University's College of Husincss Administration. He became Vice-President for Public Relations and Development in June, 1965, after having served as Director of the Notre Dame Foundation. 
Under his direction, Notre 
Oame completed two three-year 
Capital Fund-raising Campaigns 
which generated a total of more 
than $46 million. The University is currently engaged in its tnu u development program with a goal of $52 million. 
Mr. Frick is a member of the American Alumni Council and the American College Public Relations Association, and has served as a consultant to colleges and universities in Latin America, Europe, and Africa. 
11e has been active in the United Negro College Fund, The Catholic Interracial Council, South Bend, and the St. Joseph County, Ind., United Community Service. 
Mr. Frick is a member of the Manhattan Club of New York and Director of the St. J oscph Bank and Trust Co., South Hend. 
A native of New Hern, N.C., Mr. Frick served with the Navy during WW II and was separated from the service with a rank of lieutenant. 


SMC President discusses faculty dismissals 
continued from J.Jage 1 
Msgr. McGrath ennumcrated hi; goals on building a faculty. Tiley include the preven tiou of in breeding, receiving doctorates front the same university, in onlcr to provide a faculty with a diversity of background. I lis second goal provides for a spread of rank among faculty members in a department ti include i:Jstrudors, assistant professors, associate professors, and full professors. Msgr. McGrath's third goal pertains to usc of teaching assistants only for core courses. 
~.I s g r . M c G r a t h was qucstiom:d .on the faculty .nc111 hers who have recently received non-renewal contracts. Msgr. McGrath said that he has received about (J0 letters in the 

News in Brief 
RADICALS MEET 
The Christian Radical Action Project will meet tonight at 7:00 ptn i.t the International Koom of LaFortune Student Center to discuss organizing in St. Joseph's <'our.ty and a radical studies pro­
grant. 
KOEN TO SPEAK 
Dr. Frank Kocn, Kcscarch on Learning and Teaching Center, University of Michigan, will give a lecture entitled, "On Becoming a College Teacher," in Koom I09, Hiology Auditorium. 

past week showing concern about these faculty members. McGrath said that student opinion had been taken into consideration in the decisions in an informal manner through student course evaluation and s t u d e n t c o 111 111 e n t s t o department heads. Msgr. McGrath expressed his willingness to listen to students individually at any time. 
When questioned hi the student. Vice-President Jack Detzler said that as chairman of the Kank and Tenure Committee he would contact the committee mcmhers on their willingness to reconsider some of the faculty cases. 
Student Body President Therese Ambrusko and a group of 3 2 students issued a statement last night calling for immediate and formal consideration of student opinion in the matter of contract renewal. 


Student draft coalition 

A numher of students leaders at the University of Notre Dame have formed the Notre Dame Committee for a VoluntcerArmy advocating the ending of the present Selective Service System. The Committee will circulate a petition on the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses beginning Thursday. 
The petition slates that the present system is a violation of "both the spirit and letter of the law of our republic ... the spirit that created the American republic." The petition states that the draft "in peacetime saps the freedom of American citizens" and serves as a waste of manpower. 
The petition concludes urging "President Nixon to live up to his promise" of abolishing the draft as soon as possible. 
The Chairman of the committee is Mike Kelly, Chairman of the Notre Dame Young Kepublicans. Co-chairmen of the committee are Armand Gelinas, Chairman of the Action Student Party, Kichard J. Hunter, Chairman of the Notre Dame Young Democrats, Robert J. Narucki, Chairman of the Notre Dame Young Americans for Freedom. 
The petition will be circulated in the Notre Dame and St. Mary's Dining Hall Thursday and Friday nights and will be circulated in the halls and off-campus office for a week 
thereafter. 
Kelly is new negotiating to 
have the petition presented to 
the Nixon administration by a 
member of Congress. 


IMPENDING!_CATACl.YSMIC! 
GRAND PRIX '69 
Time Trials: May 10 Race Finals: May 17 
PAGE 1 

1. You sure aw mv kind of folksinger, Fra-n. 
".Oh, a lom·ly min~!rd I 111 Ill!'ant to he ... 

2. Y'think maylw you and mt• mnld, uh, possibly... 
"A-singin' my song to humanity..." 

4. And I was hoping that twrhaps, sonH·how, tlw f!'l'ling might h!' mutual. 
"\\"ithont auy fH'l'd for company..." 

(). It could haY<' ht•<·n llt'antifnl, ht•eauw I just got Ofl<' of tiH· gn·at johs E'lnitahll' is offl'ring colkgl' fWoplt• tht•st• day..;. H!'al good pay, ehallt·nging work, ami promotions that cotnt• as fast as I can l'arn thl'm. 
Likt• to !war my wrsion of "L<'ad :\I!' Down tlw Aislt•, Lyle"? 

:\Iakl' an appointnwnt through your l'lac<·nH·nt OfficPr to S!'!' E<tuitahf,.'s !'lllployml'nt rl'pn•st•ntatiw on February 27. 1969 or writ<•: Liow·l :\1. St<'V<'ns, :\lanag!'r, Collt•g!' Empwynwnt. 

THE tEouiTABLE 
Thl' ~;,tuitahlt• Lift• Assuranct• Socic.'ty of tiH' Unitt•d Stutt•s 12H!'i Awnt.tt• of tlw Anwrit·ns, 1\t·w York, 1\t•w York 1001!) Au J•:ctrwl OppCJrlrwity l·.'mplorwr,· AfIF 1.) Equitahlt· 1H6H 

THE OBSERVER TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 18,1969 
Irish don't take any bull -dog at Butler 

Somewhere around Indianapolis, Indiana, hidden under an abandoned cornfield, Tony Hinkle has .1 secret laboratory. He built it 40 years ago, or about the same time he began coaching the Butler Bulldogs. 
Every fall, Hinkle takes fifteen or so Hoosiers who have been passed up by the classier colleges and feeds them into his lab machinery. What comes out is a bunch of ballplayers (with the accent on the PLAYERS) capable of beating anyone, like New Mexico and Duke this year. 
Last night, Hinkle was at it again down in Indianapolis in the fieldhouse named after him. His band of nobodies harried Notre Dame up and down the court until Bob Whitmore and Austin Carr beat them away for a 94-90 Irish victory. 

Butler entered the game with a I0-1 2 record, one of those losses coming to NO 76-73 on M•~·'''"'m .. J1!;;, Jan. 9. The Bulldogs also played Irish winger Phil Wittliff missed the first three hockey without regular center Clarence 
Harper, scholastically ineligible.

matches this season, due to football practice, and Harper has become a by-word immediately fell behind Kevin Hoene in the team scoring around NO after two years of race. Wittliff finally caught up last weekend and man-handling by Whitmore. But deadlocked Hoene at 21 goals apiece. during the January game, he 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 


NEW YORK (UPI)-Ted Williams, one of the highest paid players of all time, automatically becomes the highest-paid manager of all time as soon as he scratches his name on that Washington Senators' contract. 
"Hopefully it should be within the next couple of days," says Washington owner Bob Short, the man who's shelling out all the heavy cabbage. 
"I don't want to pinpoint any one specific day 
,. he'll sign and then invite a whole lot of questions if that day passes without his signing. Nothing has changed. We're very close." Whichever day Williams does sign his name to a long term contract in that neat, small Palmer-like penmanship of his, he'll get $100,000 a year base pay. That alone would make him the highest-paid manager ever. Casey Stengel never got quite that much but Williams will have another little goodie coming in the form of an option to but 10 per cent of the Senators' stock. Get some paper and pencil and you'll find that comes to $900,000. You'll also find no other manager ahs ever come close to a deal of this kind and that includes the late Connie Mack, who was the last manager owner in baseball and really one of a kind. Short refuses to spell out the terms he ahs agreed to with Williams although he says he certainly wishes to pay him the same way he was paid as a player with the Boston Red Sox. Nobody in the club's history ever was paid better. The Red Sox never said whether they paid Williams $135,000 a year or $125,000 but whichever it was, the figure made him high man of his time. Only ones to reach that pleateu since were Sandy Koufax and Willie Mays although Frank Robinson also comes close. But Washington's offer "overwhelmed" Williams, a guy who isn't easily overwhelmed. The Senators' terms certainly say something for 
• 
Ted's enduring appeal. Granted we're in the middle of inflation, but who ever offered such men as Babe Ruth or Jack Dempsey a million dollar deal in the same field they came from eight years after they retired? Poor Babe. Nobody in baseball even offered him a cheese sandwich. 

Life is funny though and as tremendously 

• 
appealing as Short's offer was to Williams, the 50-year-old former Boston slugger turned it dow~; 


at first. 
"That's right," confirms Short. "If I had taken no for an answer it would have never come to this. When I first talked to Ted about managing the ball club he said, 'Bob, I know you and I'd like to help you...I will help you by seeing you and speaking with you from time to time ... but I really don't want to get into this." 
Short persisted. He knew money alone wouldn't swing it because Williams is making $120,000 a year now working for Sears Roebuck. 
Short put it on still another basis. He told Williams how much he could contribute to a club like Washington and more than that, how much he could contribute to the country by coming to manage in a city like Washington which doesn't have the finest image in the world right now. Short was telling the truth. Williams knew he was and in the end that was as much a factor as the money. 
"I've seen it written that I became interested in getting Ted Williams as soon as the Washington Redskins got Vince Lombardi," says Short. "That isn't true. I thought about a managerial change when I discussed butying the club. Once I took a good hard look 1 came to the conclusion the club needed a whole new face. As for a new manager, no matter how many names I put into the mix the two names that always came out on top were Williams and Dimaggio. So I went from there although most everybody I talked to-all the so-called experts-assured me I had no chance to get Ted." 
Short, at 51, is only a year older than Williams. He identified with him growing up and can tell you what Williams did the first time he ever saw him playing for Minneapolis 31 years ago. 
"He hit a home run," says the Senators' new owner."I followed him from that time on and naturally, the thing that impressed me so much was his great ability. Later, I was even more impressed by the superhuman effort that went along with it." 
Williams made no special requests in his talks with Short. He didn't even ask for his old No. 9 uniform which he wore with the Red Sox. 
"Frank Howard wears it on our club," Short smiles. "I heard that Frank said Ted could have it if he wants." 
scored  19  points,  and  his  
absence  hurt  Butler  on  the  
boards.  

Balancing the ledger, note that Austin Carr did not play for the Irish in that first game. And Austin's 28 points tied him for game honors with Whitmore. Hinkle had to play his best guard, Steve Norris (16.3 average) on Austin, but Norris is only 5-8. 
The first half of last night's contest may act as a standard for "racehorse" basketball. Notre Dame shot an amazing 21-33-64% from the field, while the Bulldogs weren't far behind at 53%. Butler got more tries at the hoop than the Irish due largely to the shocking total of 15 NO turnovers. 
The Bulldogs couldn't find the iton early, but Irish miscues kept the game close at 18-18. The Irish then went on a drive which culminated in a 33-22 lead at 7:45. Tony's boys refused to leave the fieldhouse, however, and cut the deficit to -~.J-3'} at 2:45. 
At 2:15, Irish captain Bob Arnzen was fouled. He missed the second attempt (NO missed only two the entire night), but was given a reprieve when Bulldog Scott Neat stepped in the lane too soon. When Neat disputed the call, he was slapped with a technical. Arnie converted the free throws, but Butler came back again to make it 46-45 with 0:45 left. 
Whitmore then took control to end the half. He hit for two, blicked a lay-up attempt and scored another bucket. The Irish left the floor leading 50-46, and that's 50 points and 15 turnovers. Whitmore had 15 points in the first twenty minutes and Carr added 13. 
At the outset of the second half, Butler brought their brand of ball to perfection. The Bulldogs play a control-type offense with men weaving, sliding, and picking all over the place until someone breaks free for a 15-foot jump shot. But give them an opening and they will RUN. Butler unleashed a series of 3-on-2 and 2-on-1 breaks to take the lead 59-57 on the shooting of Dave Bennett. 
The Irish, especially Whitmore and Dwight Murphy cooled off considerably, but managed to hold on to the lead. Norris completed a 3-point play at 6:50 to give the Bulldogs their last advantage, 74-73. At this, Whitmore bestirred himself again and started wrecking havoc around the basket. He scored five times on as many tries to pull ND away to a 90-84 advantage. His work done, Whitmore fouled out at 0:36. 
The lead changed hands I 8 times, and the score was tied a dozen more. Notre Dame helped the winning cause by committing only five second-half turnovers, one Jess than Butler. The Bulldogs were paced by Bennett with 22 points, and got 17 each from Norris and Neat. 
Besides the 56 markers split by Carr and Whitmore, NO was supported by Arnzen with 18 and Murphy with 13. Jack Meehan added seven for the Irish, who used only six players, with Collis Jones replacing Whitmore in the waning seconds. 
In the race for the NCAA, Notre Dame stands 17-5, the same as Dayton. Marquette is 17-4. 
Barry out 
OAKLAND, Calif. (UPI) Rick Barry didn't play a game aU last season and now he's t)Jrough for the current one with only a half year's work. 
The star forward of the 
Oakland Oaks of the American 
Bas~etball Association will 
undergo corrective knee surgery 
in Los Angeles March 3, the club 
announced during the weekend. 
Examinations by doctors in 
Oakland, San Francisco and Los 
Angeles, disclosed a large 
amount of fluid in the knee. 
Hockey statistics 
Scoring 
PLAYER Pts. Gls. Asts. G Pen. PM Kevin Hoene 42 21 21 23 5 18 Phil Wittliff 32 21 11 20 14 53 Joe Bonk 29 10 19 23 12 24 Jim Cordes 24 11 13 23 5 10 John Womack 22 16 6 22 8 16 Paul O'Neil 16 9 7 23 5 10 
Mark Longar 13 3 10 23 6 12 Jim Moran 13 4 9 18 16 35 John Roselli 14 7 7 23 6 12 Mike Collins 7 1 6 20 12 52 Dean Daigler 6 2 4 22 15 30 Mike Gearen 6 2 4 22 3 6 Eric Norri 6 1 5 14 3 6 Bruce Britton 4 3 1 22 4 8 Tom Myers 4 3 1 20 0 0 Jim Blainey 3 2 1 15 12 32 Pat McMahon 2 0 2 14 0 0 Mike Bars 0 0 0 9 1 2 Jim Lockhart 0 0 0 3 1 2 Scott Jacobsen 0 0 0 2 0 0 
Goa1-tending 
NAME G Saves Save pet. Save avg. Goals agst. GA avg. Dick Tomasoni 21.6 728 .880 33.7 99 4.6 John Barry 1.0 17 .944 17.0 1 1.0 Tom Reid 0.3 4 .800 12.0 1 3.0 
ND TOTALS 23 749 .858 32.6 101 4.4 OPP. TOTALS 23 772 .859 33.5 116 5.0 




