

THE WORLD TODAY 
Farmer named new HEW assistant 
WASHINGTON (UPJ) James L. Farml!r was named an assistant se~:retary of the department of Health, Edu~:ation and Welfare HEW yesterday becoming the first national Negro leader to join the Nixon ad ministration. 
Farmer, fQrmer national director of the Congress of Racial Equality CORE, was introduced to reporters at the White House by HEW Secretary Robert H. Finch. Farmer will serve as assistant HEW secretary for administration, a post with far ranging duties, Finch said. 
Finch also introduced a newspaper executive, Creed C. Bla~:k, who was likewise named to be an assistant HEW secretary. Black, cxe~:utive editor of the Chicago Daily News, will be assistant secretary for lcgislati~­
Nat'l Guard Invades U. of Wisconsin 
MADISON, Wis. (UPI) -Gov. Warren P. Knowles yesterday ordered units of the National Guard onto the University of Wisconsin campus to restore order in the face of continuing student protests. 
"I am determined, as is Chancellor H. Edwin Young, that the 
University of Wisconsin will not be closed down, but will continue 
to function in pursuit of its primary mission-the education of our 
young citizens," Knowles said. 
Knowles said he took the action at the request of Madison Mayor Otto Festge and law enforcement officials. No immediate information was available on the size of the force or the units involved. 
Knowles said, "an educational atmosphere must be maintained so 
that the orderly educational processes can go forward." 
"The lives and safety of students and faculty and the property of the university must be protected," Knowles said. "The campus must be free of violence, threats and intimidation." 
Knowles order ~:arne as striking white and black students blocked traffic and buildings while playing cat and mouse with several hundred riot equipped police. 
Bus traffic in the campus area was halted when bus drivers refused to drive there. At least six arrests were made, and several injuries, apparently minor, were reported as the strikers sought support for black t 
students' demands. The demands include a black curriculum, more . black students and teachers and admission of 90 black students who were expelled from Oshkosh State University because of a disruptive protest there in November. 


Roclty recommends state surcharge 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Gov. Nelson -,.\:-Rockefeller of New York 
urged ~resid.c~t Nixon yesterday to retain the I 0 per cent income 
surtax mdef1mtcly as a direct source of federal aid for state and local 
education. At a White House meeting of the President's Urban Affairs ~ouncil, which Nixon attended, Rockefeller also proposed that the federal government eventually take over the nation's welfare sys~e~n, setting uniform standards and financing it through anhc1pated growth in federal tax revenues. Both nlans would entail returning $6.5 billion in federal tax funds to the states in the first year, starting July I, and $30 billion within four years. Rock~feller, w~o fought Nixon unsuc~:essfully last year for the Rcpub.hcan prcsJdential nomination, also proposed a compulsory natrona! health insurance program as a "first line of defense against illness," with the existing medicare program as a supplementary plan. . Rockefeller's health program, like social security, would be .frnanced by matching contributions by employers and employees. fhe go~crnment.would pay the premiums for welfare re~:ipients. Med1care, wh1ch Rockefeller proposed making a "second line of defense" against rising medical costs, provides free hospitalization for pe~sons 65 years of age or older and is financed by payroll d~ductwns. A separate, voluntary plan provides payment of doctor bills, with the participant paying $4 per month. 

Pope defends church doctrine 
VATICAN CITY (UPI) Pope Paul VI yesterday indirectly rejected the belief of many biships that married Catholics may practice artificial birth control if they decide in good conscience they cannot accept the pontiff's ruling on the controversial subject. 
The Pope told his weekly general audience that although man ~:annot go against his conscience, his "conscience needs to be instructed." If it is not, the pontiff added, then it can be "guiltily erroneous." 
In simpler terms, the Pope's speech reaffirmed Catholic theology which holds that Catholics cannot go against conscience but must seck to make their conscience conform to church teaching. 
That qualification has been absent from statements of some recent Catholic National Biships' Conferences that have upheld the right of Catholics who dissent from the Pope in good conscience to follow their own consciences. 
The Pope did not mention the controversial birth control question specifically but his reference was clear. 
"Conscience is not the source of good and evil," he said. "It is the warning, it is the listening to a voice ... it is the recall to conformity that an action must have with an intrinsic requirement of man ... that is, it is the subjective and immediate intimation of a law that we must call natural, notwithstanding the fact that many today do not want to hear about natural law." 
THE 

OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Community 
VOL. Ill, No. 80 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1969_j 
Black players protest booing 
-.:he ?Jack players on the Un1 verstty of Notre Dame basketball team last night issued a statement in the wake of the 
team's  loss  to  Michigan  State  
Tuesday night.  
The  statement  reads:  "We  

demand a public apology from the Student Body of the University of Notre Dame for their booing when there were five black players in tbe game against Michigan State. If we don't get this apology, we will · no longer practice or play for 
the University. You can even throw us out of school." Signed: Collis Jones, Austin Carr, Sid 
apology," said Murphy.
Robe~Kennedylega~y 
Whitmore stresses, however, 

The Robert Kennedy seminar continued last night as David Halberstam, contributing editor to Harper's magazine and author of The Unfinished Odyssey of Robert Kennedy addressed an overflow crowd in the library auditorium on his personal impressions. of Robert Kennedy. 
"This is not a very happy time," Halberstam said, "it is a dark time, a time of deep turmoil. A time when the rich 
get richer and the poor poorer, with the gap between the two widening all the time ... " 
Halberstam said that l.hese same decisive factors existed at the time that Kennedy entered the presidential race. He said that some people considered Robert Kennedy "to be a decisive force himself...some of us looking around though, felt that he was the one man who could heal the divisions." 
Kennedy's main asset, Halberstam said, was that he was the only man who touched both the blue collar whites and the Negroes. The structure of American society, he said, was threatened most by these two hroups. 
Blue collar whites, he claimed, were alienated from society because they felt threatened. They feared that the Negro was a threat to his normal pattern of life. 
Negroes were alienated from American society because they were trapped by their own "slumism." They were aware 
that bad schooling mant bad • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• 
jobs, and that a bad job meant, : 
in turn, a bad neighborhood : 
school, he said. : 
Halberstam said that Kennedy • looked like a threat to most : Americans because they saw : their affluence threatened by • Kennedy's concern for the Black : 
man and for the poor. • 
"Kennedy had the look of a : 

man who intended to rock the • 
boat, and rock the boat I think : 
he would have," Halberstam : 
said. • 
Speaking of Kennedy's ability : to commt:micate with the people • alienated from American : society, Halberstam said, "He : would go to them... He would • touch them... Hearing of the : 
starvation in America, he went ••• • • • ••• ••• ••• •"' • • • • •••• 
Cat~ett, Dwtght Murphy, Bob anse, we'll cross that bridge Wh1tmore. when we come to it." 
When questioned about the At h1e tic Director Edward players' action, Coach John Dec "Moose" Krause also feels that said, "I don't think the students the booing was not directed were booing these ball players. against the players. Like Dee, he They even gave Austin Carr a cited the example of Austin standing ovation when he came Carr's standing ovation. He said, in. I would sooner think that "The students were not booing they were booing me. The the five athletes on the floor. students have been pretty good There's no question about it." to us so far this year." 
. Coach Dee also said, "At this Contacted later, Dwight point I am making no plans to Murphy and Bob Whitmore said play without these players. As that this statement is effective far as I know they will still be immediately, and they will not coming to practice tomorrow attend practice tomorrow. "I (Thursday). If a problem does don'l see any way we can make 
practice tomorrow without an 
that these players are in no way grape pickers strike in California 
to Mississippi. Hearing-of the 
taking this action as a move and hearing that it was a 
against Coach Dee. He said, question of human decency he "This is strictly against the went there ... " 
student body." 
McKenna yes, others well. ... 
by Ted Price, OBSERVER Campus Editor 
McKenna's in, Kendall maybe, Mroz isn't saying, and Libowitz is 
too tied up to make any announcement. And with the date still not 
set, it looked like a rather nebulous Student Body Presidency last 
night. 
Morrissey Hall President Phil McKenna was the only one who was 
willing to give a straight answer, and that was that he was indeed a 
candidate. His running mate will be Senator Fred Dedrick. 
"Student Government is for me a term of evolution," said · McKenna. "The move now should be toward a 'University 
' 

Government."' 
He explained that such a structure would be for all sectors of the community what Student Government has been for the students over the past five years. 
"The Pornography and Censorship Conference provides a good example of a situation in which such a government would be useful," McKenna continued. "What happened there was a breakdown between the three groups. A unified government, embracing the student, faculty and administration could have dealt with this problem much more easily than our current system." 
McKenna also seems to be the only candidate with an organization ready to operate. Maybe this is a contributory factor to his comparatively early announcement. 
"Although I am weak on the North Quad, I have about sixty people in Morrissey alone willing to work for me," he said. Vice-Presidential hopeful Fred Dedrick said that he conceives of the job of SBVP as "being a right hand man to the President." 
"The Vice-President should be the President's assistant in matters of the Student Union, since it is so large and therefore requires more time than the SBP can spare," he explained. "He should also be the President's Jaiason to the students at large. Afterall, the SBP can only do so much." 
Mike Kendall said that he is "considering running" but that he has other commitments to fulfill before he can mak~ a final decision. 
continued to Page 3. 
: 

on the inside ... 
-It's Mardi Gras again, Page 5. 
~SMC and the Dunbarton visitors, Page 3. 
-A not her hockey victory, Page 8. -Tim O'Meilia apologizes, Page 4. 
P"GE 2. 
THE OBSERVER THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1969. 

SMC discusses boycott plans 

Saint Mary's students concerned with the dismissal of eight faculty members will meet at 7:00 p.m. tonight in the Madeleva Building to ~btain information on the dismissals and discuss alternate plans of action. Students have been voicing their opinions on the dismissed teachers' ability through a campaign of letters to College President Msgr. John J. McGrath. K.T. Cannon an 
organizer of the meeting, ;tated that "If the student voice is not heard there is the possibility of some kind of boycott." 
McGrath addressed the Saint Mary's faculty yesterday, but has not yet announced a meeting with students. The Saint Mary's chapter of the American Association of University Professors met in emergency session last night to discuss the dismissals. Both meeting were closed to students as a matter of policy. 
Students investigating the di~missals have contacted the 
Faculty statement 
As a result of the events of the past few days, a statement has been circulated among the faculty by number of professors of the English department. The faculty had tried to call a meeting of the entire faculty to circulate their statement, but this proved to be impossible. Next they tried to call a meeting of the Faculty Senate but were informed by Prof. Edward Murphy, Chairman of the Faculty Senate, that no special session would be called. They then proceeded to solicit names on an individual basis. 
Their statement reads as follows: 
"We, the undersigned members of the faculty of the University of Notre Dame, believe that the academic 
;Miiiil;;~::::::;;;l 
STARTS TOIV'OPROW 

the fixer 
Based on the Pulitzer Prize-winning novel by Bernard Malamud. 
\ 
t-1\t.•lrr..; j.,, 

treectom ot the. University has 
been violated by the intrusion of 
the local police into the campus. 
We endorse our students' 
attempt to study the issues of 
censorship and art, and we 
deplore the attempt by the local 
police to censor the subjects we 
investigate in an academic 
conference." 
-The statement was signed by­forty-two members of the faculty. 
A.A. U.P. and the National Student Association in order to familiarize themselves with the legal aspects of the faculty dismissals. They are also inq u mng into the working procedures of the Saint Mary's Faculty Assembly and the Rank and Tenure Committee. The results of the investigation will be reported at the meeting tonight in order to submit a proposal to the Faculty Assembly. 
Miss s Cannon is urging any Notre Dame students who have had the dismissed faculty members for classes and are concerned with their particular cases to attend the meeting in the Student Lounge of the Madeleva Classroom Building tonight. "We would also like any students concerned with the larger question of how the particular goals of Saint Mary's College are being attained to attend the meeting," Miss Cannon said. 


Students protest fines 
An anonymous group of students, referring to themselves as the Committee for Student Liberation, have announced a campaign to "lessen the penalty for parking violations now in effect." Previously, they have confiscated a total of 7 parking tickets and forwarded them to Chief of Security Arthur Pears. 
Basically, the Com mittec is protesting the $50 fine levied against cars owners not possessing student decals, and the $25 fine held against those driving illegally on campus. 
A letter, implicitly stating the Committee's grievances, and which accompanies each returned parking ticket sent to Pears, reads as follows: 
"I hope that our previous communication with you was well recicved. Perhaps it is time for us to set forth our goals as an organization. We do not seck to maliciously interfere with the law, but aim to change it, and our current method of returning parking tickets to you is aimed in the direction of showing you our wish for change. 
We do not protest $1.00 to $5.00 parking fines, but we do not agree with $10.00 to $50.00 fines, seeing as how students, faculty, and visitors are not as wealthy as this fine indicates. How does a fine indicate wealth? Well, it should be levied with the ability to pay in mind, and the meagerness of faculty salaries and student allowances make this fine unconsonant with the provisions of a just law. 
Again, we hope this unjust system of parking fines will be reviewed and revised to include warning tickets and more reasonable fines." 
When Pears was questioned about the whole matter, he replied "This is the first time that I had heard anything about it." He also commented "I know nothing about the returning of any tickets, we don't keep a record of things like that anyway." 
The Committee will remain anonymous to protect themselves, and advise others while aiding in the protest, to do likewise. 

Coming: N. D. Beer Night Every Monday 6:00 to 1:00 
Beer $1.00 pitcher Pop I 0 cents 

IF;;y~u-;,.;;,;-;;.t-;;;n 7,,;-a-;;d_fu~e-;,;;;-o;;;;a-;-;o-;m-;;il "U;;;;e~uest -;.,,-j 
I Mr. larry E. Toth I 
j Pennsylvania Department of Highways 1 I Bureau of Personnel Harrisburg, Pa. 17120 I 
I I 


I NAME I 
I I 
I I
ADDRESS 
PIZZA HUT# 2 I I 2307 E. EDISON I I PHONE 233-3827 I DEGREE: s s._ M.s._ I 
I I 
(Close toN. D. Campus) 
CUP COUPON AND SAVE SO~ ON A

I FIELD: I
________________________ j 
DELI~IOUS PIZZA HUT PIZZA! 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1969 7HE OBSERVER PAGE 3 
Saint Mary's entertaining Dunbarton students' 
by Laura Haferd 
noticed between the very small attempt to tailor major coursesUntil Feb. 22 St. Mary's will (enrollment approximately 450) and electives to each person isbe entertaining six students from and urban college and the much simplified at DunbartonDunbarton College, Washington, isolated university atmosphere where there are only fourD.C. who arc studying for two of St. Mary's-Notre Dame. upperclass students majoring inweeks in the Art Department. 
"First of all, it seems that the Art, for instance; with a faculty
This arrangement is a 
smaller school provides obvious of six."
modification of the Moreau program which involves SMC advantages in student-teacher Miss Stanton was impressed cooperation in curriculum by the sophistication of student
and Dunbarton students in a full semester exchange of adjustments for the individual. It work and instruction she has environment. seems that the majority of St. seen in the SMC Art One Dunbarton junior, Allene 
Mary's students are interested in Department. "When I consider Stanton, commented on taking courses that are not that the city provides us required for their major, but the (Dunbarton students) with such
differences which she has 
Student body presidential candidates profiles 
Continued from Page 1. 
"I am in no position now to last weekend. reached no final decision on it. announce anything either way," The Pornography and 
"Free University has taken upsaid Kendall, "but I should be Censorship fiasco chopped the a lot of my time so far," he said. 
making a decision on this within base from under Mroz' "But now I should be a little bitthe next few weeks." popularity. He is under attack freer and this is the time toKendall's name has from both sides. 
make a decision, to look overconsistently been mentioned for In a statement released last the other candidates, andseveral months now whenever night, Mroz said, "After serious aimounce whether or not I am anyone has discussed the subject consideration of all the aspects running, and if not whom I will of possible SBP candidates. His of the forthcoming election, I support."
name has been linked with those have decided to postpone any Libowitz has said that he is
of several possible running possible announcement of my unabashedly in love with Notre
mates, but none is willing to candidacy for SBP for at least Dame, and wants to try to
confirm the connection. another week until I have had improve it. But he is somehtingJohn Mroz is perhaps the the opportunity to talk with as unknown It's
most inscrutable of the four. many as possible on the of an quantity. 
hard to predict exactly how heMroz gained a Jot of followers subject."
Then there is Rick Libowitz. would implement a program of
with the Sophomore Literary Festivai last year, and his He says that he changes his mind improvement. disciples grew in number with on the subject on the average of The election should be near the successes of his SUAC once every eight hours. Last March I0, according to SBP administration this year. Until night, he said that he still had Rossie. 
diversity and quality of art shows and galleries, it seems remarkable that St. Mary's faculty is able to provide its students with the background for knowledgeable experiments in very contemporary art movements." 
Miss Stanton also said that the 
D.C. public's attitude toward the university and college students' activities is much less attentive than that evidenced by South Bend citizens and police officials in such episodes as the one which explosively greeted her this past weekend after arriving Saturday. 
The St. Mary's students body is an interesting group to this visitor because, as she explains it, "It's impossible for me to distinguish by appearance the diverse student elements such as the upper-classmen versus the underclassmen or the art majors or entertainers, or even the intellectuals. At Dunbarton the types are clear-cut. Since V:e all know each other, we seem to make an actual attempt to stand out as individuals. However, just 
by observing them in the dining hall, I do not think that St. Mary's girls are concerned with 
expressing their individuality in their dress and actions." 
Mimi Scheib, another of the exchange students, summarized this view in the statement, "St. Mary's students are straight. Maybe it is because of the smaller size of the college that Dunbarton students dress more informally, and attend classes which are more informally conducted." 
"One thing which I really think is great here is the successful cooperation of this women's college and a large university. You really have a great thing here." 
The Dunbarton juniors and seniors, who also include Regina Bognato, Susan Cushanick, Martha Anderson and Dolores Green, will stay here until Feb. 
22. They are planning to travel to Chicago with the group Mr. Alasko is organizing to see the wrapped Museum of Modern Art, and also the Art Institute collection. They are also visiting classes at Notre Dame. 
St. Mary's also exchanged H James Paradis, Associate Professor, and specialist in ceramics for Sister Cecelia Ann, CSC, a SMC graduate, and specialist in painting. According to Sister Rose Ellen, chairman of the department, this year's project is hopefully a pilot for more elaborate projects in the future. 
The Fact Finding Subcommittee of the Notre Dame Student Life Council, charged with making a comprehensive review of the facts surrounding the abortive Pornography and Censorship Conference, hereby extends the following open invitation to persons with firsthand knowledge of those events occurring during the days of Wednesday, February 5 to Friday February 7th, inclusive, that merit being brought to the attention of the Notre Dame Community. Such persons are requested to: 
1). prepare and submit by mail a written statement, as specific as possible with 
respect to time, place and persons, of those event'S to which they were a direct 
witness, or 

2). request by mail an appearance before a closed session of the subcommittee 
Communications to the subcommittee should be made to: P.O. Box 522 (The Student Government), Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 A ITN: C.]. Nau, Chairman. 
The subcommittee seeks only to ascertain the facts regarding the events ofFeb. 5-Feb. 7, but must make clear to all who testify-whether to our committee or any media, campus or otherwise, or any other person--that their testimony can be selfincriminating if they have broken civil or university law. The Subcommittee has been informed that Fr. Riehle will not himself consider the record of such testimony, but the subcommittee still feels that the above warning is in order. With that in mind, the subcommittee will provide a student legal counsel from the lAw School who will assist at the taking of all oral testimony and provide information regarding the rights ofanyone who would testify. We urge all who would submit written testimony to be aware of their rights before submitting that written testimony. 
---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~--------------,. 
PAGE 4 




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3. 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
A simple choice? 
The indefinite leave of absence taken by the Honor Council did not come as a complete surprise. It has been quite obvious for some time that there has been something wrong with the conception of honor as experienced through the Notre Dame Honor Council. 
It would be nice to think that the Honor Council was the victim of its own success and that an end to student dishonesty rendered the Honor Council useless. 
However such is not the case, and the Honor Council itself seems the most frank in admitting this fact. 
Notre Dame's honor has been expressed in the short sentence found on the cover of University blue examination books and Honor Council publicity: "As a Notre Dame student, I pledge honesty in all my academic work and will not tolerate dishonesty in my fellow students." 
Pledging honesty is one thing but turning in one's fellow students for cheating seems to be another. 
In a way we welcome the confrontation forced upon us by the sudden nonexistence of a body which many of us had come to take as much for granted as a sophomore theology course. 
The choice is simple: either we publically as a single community reaffirm our faith in the guy who sits next to us during a test or we positively and privately, each in his own good time, come to grips with Honor. 
Unfortunately the second option is not quite as slick as it might first appear. The terrors of complete freedoms are often more tortuous than the singular choice afforded by even the most nebulous of honor codes. 

Misunderstanding 
Black student leaders at Notre Dame have always in the past 
shown heroic patience in their efforts to narrow the cultural and 
academic gap between the races here. To praise them is not enough; we 
envy them their maturity, good faith, and good ju~gment. 
This year especially we have seen the Black athlete distinguish 
himself as both a leader and a spokesman of the Black students. He has 
finally won something far more valuable than the cheers of the crowd; 
he has won respect and admiration for his constructive work within the 
community. 
And yet, last Tuesday night during a tense and disappointing loss on 
the basketball court it appeared to these men that they had won 
neither. They thought the Notre Dame fans were booing them. 
They were mistaken. 
Neither their coach, nor their teammates nor any of the spectators 
we have spoken to were aware of any booing at all. While the Notre 
Dame fan has often been labled crude by his opponent, he has never 
been disloyal to his team. 
However to argue the difference between a boo and a moan or a 
groan leads nowhere but to hoarseness. The issue at hand is that five 
members of our community felt that they were booed in public because 
of their race. As a consequence they are now threatening not only the 
future of that team, but also, and more importantly, they are 
jeopardizing their own positions as constructive leaders of the Black 
movement at Notre Dame. 
We would ask them to reconsider the events of Tuesday evening and 
would remind them that both players and fans, intensely involved in a 
sport as tense as basketball often find their emotions difficult to 
control. Things said and done hastily during a moment of frustration 
and disappointment must not form the bases for later actions which, in 
this case, will be of definite harm to the whole community. 
THRUSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1969 


Tim O'Meilia 
Hope, at last 
The Student Life Council is scheduled to study recommendations 
concerning student life, meaning, in the. J,Ilain, parietal hours, 
beginning sometime this month. The study has been an excessively 
long time in coming. Years, in fact. 
The first genuine interest in changing the rules came under SBP 
Jim Fish, two years ago, when several preliminary reports and 
recommendations were made. Last year the General Assembly of 
Students wrote and accepted bills in several areas of student life, 
including hall, judicial, and academic. Reforms in all the areas are 
now being studied or are not in effect. Those bills were presented to 
the Board of Trustees last May which formulated the Student Life 
Council which begins to study substantially the same bills over a 
year later. 
Although the date may be late, the original ideas behind the bills 
have a better chance of being accepted now than they did a year ago. 
For one thing, Father Hesburgh will be reluctant to veto a bill passed 
by the Student Life Council since that organization is at least 
reputable and thoughtful albeit a mite on the slow side. Hesburgh 
has said that while the halls are in their present circumstances, he: 
will resign as president of the University before campus-wide 
unlimited parietal hours will be allowed. His solution was to 
construct a sufficient number of lounges in the existing halls to 
accomodate students and their dates. 
Presently the SLC is considering hall renovation proposals with an 
eye specific.ally for eliminating overcrowding and establishing two-, 
three-, and four-man suites which will include lounges for just such 
entertainment purposes. Student criticism of Hesburgh's plan has 
centered on the tact that hiS lOunge plan snu Ien essentially 
unprovided for the priv~cy that the student has been seeking. Now if 
the SLC can decide on their hall renovation plan, every set of rooms 
may have the privacy it deserves. 
In fact this seems to be the only way the students may achieve 
parietals, if the SLC considers the hall renovations bill first and 
makes an effective decision without returning it to committee. The 
SLC is only modestly liberal and very deliberate and careful about 
its actions. It obviously fears making a mistake, and well it should, 
since a mistake this early in its operation may ruin it. Consequently 
a parietal hours bill would emerge horribly mutilated and amended, 
if at all. The more irnprotant a bill the more likely it will be returned 
to committee for further consideration by the SLC, or any other 
legislative body. Sometimes with enough delay the problem 
disappears. But not here. 
It is our hope that the SLC' approves an effective hall renovation 
plan and proceeds, in light of this, to enact a program whereby 
visitation rights are permitted in such a way that students can 
achieve some sort of privacy without having to resort to the steam 
tunnels. It would be sad to admit that the University of Illinois made 
a visitation rights program work while Notre Dame refused even to 
attempt it. 
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
Last Wednesday a column was printed in the OBSERVER under 
my name which subsequently proved to contain several erronious 
ideas. What's worse several students complimented me on that 
colu.mn, which was titled Win over all and concerned collegiate 
football. 
In the first place the column intimated that admissions requests 
grew according to the successful football seasons. I have since been 
informed that in fact the opposite is true. The largest number of 
applications for admission in recent years were during the K uharich 
and Brennan tenures. However, there is absolutely no proof of any 
correlation between gridiron victories and application requests. 
I also said that NO basketball has improved because of the 
addition of the Convo Center to the campus. In fact there has been 
no policy change in regard to basketball. Evidently the improvement 
in recruiting has been due to the basketball coach Johnny Dee. 
The final two objections I meant to apply to football in general 
although they were interpreted to Notre Dame specifically. Profit is 
not the god of football. It is a factor, true, although a relatively 
minor one. I also said it was virtually impossible to participate in a 
major sport and be a student at once. Many athletes throughout the 
country manage to do just that, and almost without exception every 
senior athlete graduates here. 
What I wrote was badly researched and poorly written also 
mistaken. Consequently I apologize to those whom I have wr~nged. I should like to call your attcption to a five part series beginning; Monday which delves deeply into the purpose and meaning of the 
big-time sports at Notre Dame. There are no mistakes in it 
guarantee it. ' 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1969 if!E OBSERVER 

by Phil Schatz 
There's a real swank place just down the road from here. It just opened last night. It goes by the name "Mardi Gras '69." You know where I mean, in that Stepan Center place. 
I guess it's the noise that hits you first. Lots of people yelling and laughing and joking, with WSND blaring "live" above everyone. Students arc lined up at the bank windows to exchange their dollars for play money so they can join the games. Others arc just sort of milling around. 
It's best to walk around first, just to sec where everything is. Even if you're alone it's easy to get caught up in a crowd. Some guys wishing they wouldn't have come since they lost all their money, others saying they were smart and didn't bring any, and always the choice few who "were down but are getting it back." 
It takes a few times around to catch all the booths tucked away in the maze of activity. J\t first you don't even notice the huge orange and yellow-spotted dragon atop Morrissey Hall's gambling corner, or the creative Swedish villa of the Arnold Air Society, or even the giant kilt of the Rugby Club and the somber-faced Russian guard who looms above the scenes from the Siberian scaffold of Keenan flail's booth. All you really see are the red-vested dealers and their female helpers laying out the cards, with anxious eyes watching each move. Laughing winners move on quickly, disgusted losers shuffle away with grumbles and vows not to be "taken in" again. 
It might seem that the same thing is going on in each booth, but you'll find that there arc actually a number of games you can play. Of course there's black jack. Just stop and watch a game. The dealer may seem to win all the time, but then every once-in-awhile 


''Place your bets'' 
someone does triumphantly wave his winnings before envious eyes. And there's "Over and Under" and Russian Roulette and raffle games and dice tables and all sorts of variations of these games. And for a guy who's willing to move at a slower pace, there are poker games in "little back rooms" of many of the booths. It's not even hard to get in the game. 
When you're tired of losing money .or simply have "won enough" for the evening, you can just walk around and look at all the booths you haven't even noticed yet. The Safari LTD has quite a crowd, and many seem to be interested in the Greek booth of the Class of '70 with its toga-dressed girls. The saloon-like "Chile" booth of the Texas Club seems to draw the groups as does the Czech tank with its helmeted dealers of the Chicago Club. 
Polundski's Beer Garden of the Class of '69 is another interesting place to slop. Then there's the Pitt Club's booth, Stanford Hall's "Camelot," the Tijuana Jail, the Knights of Columbus' giant pizza and St. Mary's "Hugger." And these are only a few of the booths. It takes another time around to notice all the others. 



If you ask, the dealers will tell you that "kids arc winning" and kids will tell you that dealers arc winning. Nobody seems to agree. But they will tell you it's "a lot of fun," that it's for a good cause, and that it's "much better than last year's." So what have· you got to lose? 


the South Bend area.

longer. If this is too much to
der around before finding a position that is 
4. Freshmen: These areask, then give up all hope of

satisfying? Teaching in Chicago Public Schools 
MICHIANA'S 
famous for their ND

establishing any formsof honor
brings all the instant rewards that you've been 
Sports Car Capitol 
jackets, ND hats, NOsystem here. It is a small action, 

anticipating for four years-a chance to cut 
teeshirts and their adoring
but just the action we need to '65 GTO convertible, 4 speed, Wide 
through conditions that would stifle a child's 
Home Town Honey
make the system work. Oval, Power Steering-SPECIAL STU-
potential, to raise the status quo, and the oppor­
wrapped around their
In the next few weeks the
tunity to fulfill your own highest sense of 

DENT Price ............................... $1080 
students must decide (or the arm.
achievement. 
D) Personal Tips: Learnadministration and faculty will

And, teaching in Chicago is not a one-sided '67 Austin Healy Sprite, 1 owner$1795 
the fight song and how tobe forced to decide for them)

affair. The Chicago Board of Education will ac­
nurse one beer the wholewhether they are willing to ac­

'64 MGB Roadster, special metal
knowledge your contribution to the betterment 
night.

cept the responsibility of in­
flake, blue painted...................$1W5
of its community with one of the highest teachers 
Sincerely,suring academic honesty in the

starting salaries in the nation-$7,350 for a 10 
Missy Underman,classroom or whether this res­

'65 Porsche Super 90 Coupe-127h.p.
month school year, and generous additional 
Mary Orrino ponsibility should back into

s h a r pi! !. ............................... $2495
benefits such as fully paid health insurance 10 days sick leave and 3 days personal le~ve '69 Austin American; delivered brand 
OverstockSale 

annually. new, automatic transmission, the most advanced design in today's
Get off to a good start in your career. If 
automatic design ......................$1995 
Posters, Banners, Prints 
you're a graduating senior with a degree in education, investigate teaching in the see Jaguar George 
Up to 20% off
Chicago Public Schools. 
For further information see the Chicago PEPPER'S IMPORTED 
Also see our new MINI-POSTERS and Greeting Scrolls 
Representative at the Placement Office CARS INC. FEBRUARY 20 3105 W. Sample 
Aquinas Book
South Bend, Ind. 

Or fill in the coupon below. 
I 38 N. Michigan
289-7788 


Shop 

11111 Mail today to: Director of Teacher Recruitment 
11111 




~----------------~ 
lllll CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS, Room 1038 lllll • 228 North La Salle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60601 • 

SEND AN OBSERVER
• 
I am interested in: (Check one) D Elementary IIIII 

• 
D High School (subject)_____________ lllll • D Special Education (area) • 



VALENTINE 
Name To the belles ofF irst Floor Holy
!

11111 
Cross

lllll College,__________________ lllll 
I Love You All!! Your Mail Address • Will you all be my Valentine? Karen, Connie, Cheri, Irish, Therese, 
lllll City Stat Zip • 
Kathy, Sue, Mary Kay, Linda, Ann, Elaine, 
·s Ill ii!UID!!II!ill I 3 lines $1.00 Jan, 
6 lines $1.75

~~-----------------· Susie, Maureen; Mary Ann, Sharon, 
and Am. 105 

The Observer Is published ditlly during the college semester except With Love, vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and· Tom P. Mangan
·St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notr~ Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class Postage paid, Notre Ditme, Ind., 46556. OBSERVER Second Floor LaFortune 
anytime between I lam and 3· pm Today 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
r 
A.M.) of SUAC officials re the showing of films as a part of the Conference on Pornography and Censorship. In effect, this group created a public event in, and hence made a public place out of, a University classroom. Who knows how many non-university r people were involved? Who checked to see that each poten­tial viewer in the classroom was a registered member of the Con­ference?Certainly the purposes of the Conference were not to be served by the public showing of one of the films banned by 
Faculty Voice 
Editor: 
~ Your editorial re SLC action, 
"Black Friday", and related 
reporting requires a rubuttal. 
A group containing some 
known students and others, who 
may or may not have been stu­
dents, in effect seized a Univer­
sity classroom (on Friday P.M.). 
The seizure occurred after the 
group had been frustrated in an 
attempt to use the Student Cen­
ter for purposes at odds with the 
widely advertised statement 
(Thursday night and Friday the student sponsors of the Conference. 
Viewed in the above light, I find some relevance in the in­terest of the SLC re the lecture room, and a good bit of rele­vance in the appearance of the local constabulary. The events leading up to the raid can hardly be called a part of the academic program. 

The idea that the University should apologize is absurd. At ' best, the student organizers of the Conference owe an apology to the University community for failing to check in advance as to the contents of the package which they bought and brought to the community for serious consideration. 
The University community is not, to use a much maligned term, exactly "open". Only those individuals-Faculty, Students and Administration­who have relevance to its goals are members. Nor is the University a sanctuarv which 
permits defiance of law (regardless of the nature of the law-whether justified or unjustified). The· group occupying the Nieuwland 





The Mail 
classr?om cannot expect protection when it 1) rejects the rulings of duly appointed leaders and 2) attempts to put on an ad hoc program which by some peculiar tran sm uta tion in thinking, it relates to the organized conference. 
Lastly, the University has no responsibility to obtain redress for alleged "brutal" attacks or for property seized by due process of law in connection with the Friday classroom seizure. Let the individuals who claim to be so attacked see their lawyers. 
In retrospect, . the entire University community was thwarted in its endeavors by the proven immaturity of a small group. Part of the same group now attempts to sidetrack the main issues by a bogus issue of invasion of private property by the local authorities. 
I think you owe the Community a ringing Editorial, bringing out these points, and condemning those who would use the community's privileges for their own selfish purposes. Such an editorial might be equal to that of Friday, February 7. 
Sincerely, 
Robert E. Gordon 
Professor of Biology 
01 Honor 
Editor: 
Chris Wolfe is right in stating 
that "the vast majority of stu­
dents are totally unwilling to 
report anybody else who 
cheats." In saying this he is 
overlooking another action that 
would effectively discourage 
cheating. This action is simply 
standing up in a class in which 
cheating is being observed and 
announcing, "I see what appears 
to be · and it will not be 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
tolerated in this class." This is certainly a viable way of circum­venting the "inconveniences" and disadvantages" that are coupled with reporting a stu­dent, and at the same time fulfil­ling your obligation to the Hon­or Concept. Standing up and stating simply that cheating won't be tolerated surely isn't too much to expect of a student who says he is in favor of an honor concept. 
The very least an honor sys­tem should do is to adequately replace the proctor system it supersedes. The proctor system did only one thing-it assured 
academic honesty in the class­
room. The first thing an honor 
system must do is to insure the 
same·, if not a higher, degree of 
academic honesty. Any honor 
system is capable of much more, 
but this must come first. When 
students at any university ask 
for an honor system, what they 
are saying is that they feel 
responsible enough to take over 
the job of insuring honesty in 
the classroom. The rest of any 
honor system is built upon this 
basic responsibility; and it is at 
this level that the Honor Con­
cept at this university is in 
trouble. That students don't 
want to be concerned with the 
academic honesty of other stu­
dents may well be a legitimate 
position, but it is totally incom­
patable with a desire for an 
honor system. If one finds that 
in good conscience he can sit in 
a classroom and tolerate cheat­
ing, then it is only logical that he 
must be in favor of abloishing 
any honor system. The very least 
an honor system can demand is 
what our Honor Concept de­
mands, namely that a student 
stand up and announce that 
cheating will not be ignored any 
the hands of the faculty. Make your opinion known so that we can have a real indication of what the students at this university really want. Speak out-don't hold your breath. -~om Vos 
ND Periodical Guide 
Editor: (Tom Ehrbar in 
particular) 
We at St. Mary's would like to 
give all girls within reading 
distance a Periodical Guide to 
Notre Dame. 

A) Geographical location: Located in the bustling metropolis of South Bend, immersed in the effervescent rays pouring forth from its reknowned Golden Dome lies the haven of all pornographic fun-seekers-Notre Dame! 
B) Entertainment: Anything goes-including your virginity. 
C) Identifying Characteristics: These are many and varied: 
I. Rah-rahs-evidenced by a definite green tinge acquired from their "Kiss Me I'm Irish" buttons or the night before at Sweeney's. 
2. 
Jocks: muscle-laden, big-headed, with one syllable vocabulary (duh). Usually found in a Home Ec I class (on pass-fail of course). 

3. 
Hornies: Andy Warhol supporters who have difficulty in dialing any four-digit SMC number except that of the hot line, found usually at the Avon Art Theater or thumbing in the ND circle in search of a "lady" from 



PAGE 7
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1969 THE OBSERVER 

MARDI GRAS 
A STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION PRESENTATION 
RAFFLE RETURNS 
Must be rnade at the carnival Mardi Gras booth, by the end of this week. 
c 
A R N I 

v ADDITIONAL BRUNCH & BREAKFAST 
TICKETS CAN BE BOUGHT AT TilE L CARNIVAL, AT THE CHANGE BANKS. 
A 
STEPAN CENTER 

.. 
Feb. 12th, 7-12PM Feb. 13th, 7-12PM Feb. 15th, 7-12PM Feb. 16th, 2-12PM Feb. 17th, 7 -12PM 

.THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1969
PAGE 8 
,__;____,.:o..·!'-•.;...·..-=&-:..-.=:..":"~.;;e~-·~ 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 



Sports 


By Milt Richman, UPI columnist 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 II IIII II U II II 
NEW YORK (UPI)-Naturally, Gil Hodges is concerned. He admits it. "Not too much," he says, "But a little about four of our positions. First base, center field, right field and shortstop." 
< 
Anybody who doesn't know Gil Hodges might find it rather strange that he's concerned about anything other than himself right now, particularly when he's getting ready to slip back into harness for the first time since last Sept. 24 when he was laid low by a mild heart attack. Anybody who knows him at all will find the concern he has for his ball club rather typical of Gil Hodges. 
"I'm really looking forward to spring training," he says. "I have one more appointment with the doctor and I plan to leave for Florida the I9th of this month." 
The Mets called a news conference last Monday to sort of re-introduce their manager to the media, but had to postpone it until Tuesday because of the snowstorm. It was still tough sledding on Tuesday so they put it off until Thursday, then decided to cancel the thing altogether. 
"I honestly think we're improved over last year even though we haven't made any deals," Hodges said from his home here. "As good as our pitching was last season there's a possibility it'll be better this year. It depends on two individuals-Jim McAndrew, who came up with us late last season and looked so good, and this young fellow, Gary Gentry. Everybody in our organization is high on him." 
Hodges' prime concern could be first base where Ed Kranepool, supposedly his regular man there, hit only .23 I and knocked in a mere 20 runs. He's also hoping for something better out of center fielder Tommie Agee (.2 I 7), right fielder Ron Swoboda (.242) and shortstop Bud Harrelson (.2 I 9). 
Hodges does not intend using a golf cart or any other such conveyance to get around during his spring training chores at St. Petersburg. His recovery has been slow but gradual and as he says, there's no problem at all now. 
"I feel real good, like I can do anything and everything. Now it's simply a case of mind over matter. I did a whole lot of soul searching since that thing happened. One of the things I did was quit smoking. I miss it but it's not anything I can't live without." 
Some people think Gil Hodges couldn't live without baseball but he says that isn't true either. 
"If there was any question of my not getting back to normal I wouldn't have come back to manage," says the popular ex-Dodger first baseman, who received thousands of cards, letters and wires during his four month recovery period. 
"Shortly after I was admitted to the hospital in Atlanta last September Dr. Linton Bishop told me there wasn't any question of my returning to normal, and everything has been working out exactly as he said." 
"We're a young ball club and I'm very optimistic about it," says the Mets' 45-year-old manager. "I'm not upset by the fact we didn't make any trades. I know general manager John Murphy talked to every one. Evidently that deal with Atlanta for Joe Torre has gone by the wayside. They pulled him off the market the way I
" 
understand it. We still may do something with some other club this spring." 
Pretty soon now Hodges will be packing his bag and heading out of the deep snow here for Sunny St. Pete. He's thinking about that. He's also thinking how he can possibly thank everybody for their good wishes. "You have no idea how much they were appreciated," he says. Anybody who knows Gil Hodges has an idea. 
Subterranean football? 
LUBBOCK, Tex. (UPI) -An underground athletic complex, including a subterranean football practice field, is more than "just a dream" for Texas Tech College. 
Such an unpreceden~d facility, ranking perhaps alongside Houston's Astrodome as a revolutionary move in sports, isn't quite on the drawing board, but Athletic Director Polk Robison says "it is further alot\g than just a dream." 
"We have plans along more of 
.. an athletic complex instead of just a practice football field underground," said Robison. "It would be similar to a fieldhouse although not built primarily for basketball. We are studying the possibility of putting it under our present intramural' fields-just across the street from our present athletic offices and Jones Stadium." 
Robison said such a structure could feature tunnels from the present dressing room into the complex under the street and would be ideal for closed practice sessions. It would also be close to the overall athletic plant. 
"We favor the underground complex because it would be enclosed and could be used by all sports in all weather conditions," Robison said. "It would also have playing fields at ground level on the top of the underground structure. It could contain ramp up and ramp down, with the ramp up being to the 'outside' fields and the ramp down to the 'underground' facility." 
Top defenseman for the Irish is Jim Morin who scored an assist in the third period last night. 
Irish icers check lllinois,12-1 
by Greg Wigenfeld 

The Irish leers held their Lincoln's Birthday celebration in the C'onvo last night, taking the cake from Illinois, I2-1. A spirited throng of 1,013 watched as the du Lac attackmen, led by the Hat Trick performances of Phil Wittliff and John Roselli, launched a total of 63 shots at the enemy net. 
The victory brought the ND mark to I3-5-3 and halted a two-game losing streak. 
Wittliff, who had four assists in addition to his three goals, started the scoring parade as he converted a rebound shot at I 6:39 of the initial period. Minutes later, he stole a pass in the Illini zone and flipped across 
ice to center Jim Cordes who 
. . h f th

lifted h1s tent goa1 o e h l f h Id f
season over t e e t s ou er o
M k R k k"
al. 

go Je ar osz ows 1. Team scoring leader Kevin 
H (41 . t 21 1
oene . pom s on g~a s and 20 assists) capped the frrst 
· d · "th th f. t f 
p~no sconng Wl e rrs ~ hiS two breakaway goals SIX seconds from the buzzer. Hoene 
· · b f

started m h1s own zone e ore 
· d f d

streakmg between two e en ers to erash the cords. From that 
. h t. t 

pomt on, t e on1Y ques Jon o
h

be answered were ow many
.

goals would the Insh score and 
. .

could the second-strmg goa1Jes 
· t h t t

regis er a s u ou . Coach Lefty Smith chose to 
D. k T · ·n
rest starter 1c omas0 n1 1 favor of senior John Barry and 
Tom Reid who kept house for 
the final period. Tomasom, NO-Phil Wittliff (Jim Cordes) averaging almost 32 saves a 6:39. game, would have considered the NO-J. Cordes (Wittliff) game a vacation since the Illini 14:02. managed only 19 shots on goal. NO-Kevin Hoene (unassisted) The last one, by Wayne Shields, J9:54. broke the shutout with only 43 UI-Oave McCune (too many seconds to play, hitting the men on the ice) 1:59. crossbar and dropping straight NO-Jim Blainey (boarding) down into the goal. 8:41. 
NO-Wittliff (tripping) 9:41. Coach Smith employed what U I -G or d y Sea g Iu n d might be the heaviest hockey (elbowing) 19:29. 
team in the history of the sport 
;t~n he(~~~d) de~n;I?e~Ji~ 
amey . . an nc orn (250>. while MJkehBars (~ 30) wHas 
1
P aying on t .e .wmg. e reasoned that IlhnoJs had the ·advantage when this group
played together since the Illini "k t" d hill" "A 
were s a mg own .
f t. th b d 
. coup1e o 1mes e score oar 
f d t"lt , h . d 
rea 1 , e qUippe .
Th d f f d . th
1

e ~ en.se gur.e m ree of the six fmal penod goals as number one defenseman Jim 
M . p t M M h d N . 
orm, a c a on an orn 
were credited with assists. w· W"ttl"ff'
mger 1 1 s seven game 
. t h d h" t d 
pom s pus e 1m o secon 
. th ND . d b

P1ace m e sconng er y
t J B k "W"tt" h

pas oe on . 1 as 31 
t . t t B k' 
o t a1pom s o on s 28.
"I h f th"

ope some o 1s passes 
. t th t f th

over m o e res o e
h d 1 , .d S "th "Th

sc e u e, sa1 m1 . ey
h . h , Th 1 · h 
were ungry tomg t. e ns 
. Will hav~ to be. ravenous hockey players m therr weekend deuce 
. . with the mighty Badgers of 
Wisconsin. 
WHY NOT SEND THE OBSERVER HOME? 
HALF PRICE OFFER 
Send To: Box 11, Notre Dame 
N D -J o h n Womack (unassisted) 1:32. NO-Tommy Myers (Paul O'Neil, Jim Morin) 4: SO. ND-Wittliff (unassisted) 7·35 · · 
"ND-Blainey (charging) 6:40. ND-Joe Bonk (slashing) 13·11
· · 

NO-John Roselli (Wittliff, Cordes) 2:29. ND-Wittliff (Cordes, Eric 
N 1 ) 

orri 3= 39· NO-Roselli (Wittliff) 11:21. ND-Bruce Britton (Morin, O'Neil) 13:01. ND-Hoene (unassisted) 16:14. NO-Roselli (Wittliff, Pat McMahon) 17:56. UI-Wayne Shields (Seaglund) 19:17. 
NO-Jim Lockhart (high sticking) 4:45. UI-Mike DeWan (tripping) 18:12. ND-Wittliff (too many men on the ice) 19:01. 
Speciai· price for second semester 
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF IT NOW! Enclosed is my check for $5.00 Please send the Observer to: 
NAME ADDRESS ZIP 




