J 
SLC Members Richard Rossie, Prof. James Massey, and Prof. Bernard Norling represented several viewpoints at yesterday's SLC meeting on the student magazine Vadline. 

THE WORLD. TODAY 
. -. 
Ray pleads guilty In exchange for life 
MJ·:MI'IIIS, Tenn. ( UPI) J<Jml'S l'arl Ray pleaded guilty to the murder of Dr. Martin Lutht•r King Jr. in exchange for his life yesterday hut hl' <.~nd thl' judge kept <.~live the possibility of a conspiracy. . 
A 12 lll<Jil jury hc<.~rd an hour <.~nd 55 minutes of token tcstunony and then, hy JHl'arrangenll'nt, convicted Ray and sentenced him to 99 years in prison. . 
Judgl' I:I<Jllk noted lhat although "it has not hecn lstahhshed :•t 
this liml' that there was any conspiracy" by Ray and others to kJII 
King, "this is not condusive evidence that there was no conspiracy." 
If thcrl' was. he said, the conspirators could never "lit' down to 
pleasant dreams." 
l:lolh King's widow and his successor, Rev. Ralph Abernathy, insisted others were involved in the murder and said the government should continue to investigate. Ncgrol'S through outlhL' south called the suddL'n, two hour trial a "cover up." 
In Washington, the Justice Ikparlmcnl said "the inVL'stigalion 
into Ihe origin<JI <JIIcgations of a conspir;u.:y is still open." 

Astronauts set for rough splashdown 
SI'A('J·: ('l~NTI· R. Houston (liP!) The Apollo 9 astronauts flung thcmsciVL's "likl' an arrow through lhL' sky" yesterday with a 25 Sl'coml blasl of their nwin engine to line up for Thursday's splashdown in an Allantir now so angry they could Sl'l' the whitecap from I he air. 
"lkautiful. hL·autiful," ground comnrunicator Ron<.~ld l·:v<.~ns told till' crew after till' rocket hlasl boosted Apollo 9's orhil exactly to IIll' planm·d 2XX, I I J mik high path from which the astronauts could rnosl safl'ly rl'lurn lo carl h. ' 
Allhough Md>ivilt rcporll'd seeing whitecaps in lhe storm tossed Allanl ic HrH.l sHid "il looks pretty rough," ground controllers rronrist•d conditions should improve hy splashdown time Thursday. 

U.S. see•s secret VIet negotiations 
PARIS (lil'l) Thc United Stall'S is seeking new secn·t 
negoliations with Norlh Victn<Jm in hopes of breaking the de<.~dlock 
al the Vil'lnanr pcHl'l' talks an Amcril:an spokl'SmHn said yesterday. 
The spokesman would nol reveal Hanoi's response to the 
Arneriran overlun·s. Qualifit·d sourL·es said th<~l North Vil·tnam hi.Js 
rukd oul any discussion of major prohkms in privall' contacts thus 
far. 
The spokesman said llll' U.S. delegation wants to achieve_ a 
bn·akthrough in thl' four party lalks by "any legitimate negotratmg 
JHon·dure and Ihal includes sccrl'l lalks." 
The North Vietnamese haVL' not taken a public st<Jnd on the U.S. 
offt•r of Sl'Crel negotiations. But till' Vil'l Cong's N<~lion<JI Liheralion 
Front NLF has puhlirly offl·red to open direct hilalnal t<~lks with 
the United States. 

Senate begins nuclear treaty debate 
WASIIJN{;TON (UPI) W<Jrned of the "potenti<J] horrors of a 
world in whkh pigmy nudc<Jr Wl'apons powers ahound," lhl' Senate 
cndl·d <Jil eight month slalemalt' Mond<Jy <Jill! began tkhating the 
treaty to rl'ti.lrd thl' spre;.rd of nuckar weapons. 
The lrl'aly, producl of nci.lrly <J quarter century of thought and 
negotiation. would har the United States, Russia and Britain from 
supplying nucll•ar Wl'apons or lhl·ir secrets to otlwr counlrics. 
Non nuckar countril'S XI have signed the tn•<Jiy so f<Jr would 
n•nouncl' thl•ir right ol produce or acquire lhl~ bomh. 


Finch recalls aid cutoff to rioters 

WASIIIN(;H>N (lJI'I) III·W SL·cn·tary Roher! H. Finch said ycsll·nlay he is rl·mindmg rollegL' administrators of laws requiring federal aid to he L'Ut off to studenls convicll'd of rioting on campus. Ill' s<Jid hl' hopes this prnvidl'S lh<.'lll with the "backhonc" to act. 
!-'inch said the offil'L' of l'ducation in his Health, hlucation and Welfare lkparlml'nl is preparing leltl'rs to he sent to colkgl'S citing two sections of fcdcr;.rl Jaw. One says a court conviction of rioting on campus n·quires federal schol;.rrship or lo<Jn <Jid to he cut off. The other requires <J univl'rsily hearing and finding of guilt following a court conviction hefore the <1id l·an ht· ll'rminatcd. 
"Thl' faculty ;.rnd the administration have to st<Jnd up," Finch told thl' lloUSl' hlucation and l.abor ConuuiltL'l'. "In most cases they have till' power at hand to dl·al with the disorders. Wl·'rc only going to remind lhl·m of this anl1 for some of them maybe strengthen their h:wkhonL'" 

Bucher calls N. Koreans •savages' 
('ORONAJ>O, Calif. (UPI) <.'rndr. Lloyd Bucher, USS Pueblo skipper, told a Navy court of inquiry yesll'rd<~y that North Korl·ans were "crul'l and hrutal s<~vagt~s" drcnchl•d in <Jnti-American propa­ganda. 
Ill' told till' fiw admiral court inwstigating the l'ul·hlo Sl'izurc that 
th\• tl:orth Koreans lal·knl till' ll'rhniral hackground to get secret in 
forrnalion from the l~spionage spel'ialists in the l'uehlo's crew. 
Budll'r S<Jid that hl'Ci.IIISl' of tht• North Koreans' "military and 
technical depl'ndcnn• on the Sovil'l Union" his worst fear was the 
Russian~ mighl he imported to lake oVl'r questioning of the crew. 
Bucher said Norlh Korc;.rns Wt'rL' taught lo h<Jtc Americans from 
inf;111cy lhrough movies and falsifiL·ll hislory. lk told of seeing 
Korean films in whid1 small children l'XJlfl'SSl'd the <Jmbilion thi.lt 
SOIIIl' day tla·y would he able lo kill an American. 


Staffed camel Is served at weddings 
lll'l Tht• largcsl known singk dish is slufkd roast _l·arul'l sollll'llllll's st·rvl·d al Bedouin weddings. Cookl'd eggs arc stulll'd rn cookl'll frsh which an· sluffed in rooked rhirkL·ns then plan·d rna roa~l shL'l'P and finally stufkd inlo a whok c<~ml'l 



On Joyce: "violated the 
ri!~hts of the University 

community." On Press: .. refuse to print,. On Vaciline: .. garbage" 


THE OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre /)a me and Saint Mary's College Conununity 
VOL Ill, No. 97 

TIJESDAV, MARCH 11, 1969 
•_j 

SLC reacts to 'Vaciline' 
Till' Student Life Councilml'l last night in the Center for Con­tinuing 1-:ducalion and passl~d a resolution "recommending" that the President return the maga­zine Vaciline to its editors. The resolution stall's that "wherc<Js the contents of the first issue of this magazine are prohably not lewd and indecent in a purely 
· legal sense, t]lcy an· certainly offensive to the norms of decen­cy supported hy <J Christian Uni­versity community." The Council recommended the rl'turn of the magazine pro­vided that the following two conditions arc met: "a) The editors of Vaciline present to the Pn·sident a signed agree me nl stating. 'We the undersigned editors of Vaciline in l'xchange for the release to us of the printed copies of the first issue of our magazi Ill'. hereby 
promise not to usc the name of the Uniwrsity of Notre Dame in any way in connection with the sale, distribution, or advertising of this magazine. 
"b)  th<Jt  the  St udcnt  Union  
Board  sec  that  the words Notrl'  
Da llll'  arc  ohlitcratcd  by  over  

printing or blocking, from till' masthead of the title p<Jgc and whcrevl~r else these words appear in all printed copies of the first issue of the magazine hefore the 
cop i c s arc released to the editors." 
The SLC <J]so recommends that the "Vice President for Student Affairs (Rev. Charles I. McCarragher, C.S.C.) ... direct tire Student Union Press to insert the following provision into all future contracts and agreements: 'Not withholding any other provision herein, the Student Union Press reserves the 
SBP race nears finish 
Today is Ihe J:.st day of cam­paigning in the S:udcnt Body Presidl·ntial raLT. Afll'r i.ln c<Jrly surge by John Mroz, the run for the offin· of chief student repre­sent<Jtiw has hl't:Oilll' a Iwo-man race he! ween ~1roz and Phil McKenna. In an OBSERVJ·:R poll printed ycslL·r<!ay. M.roz Jed hy slightly mor<: than YJ,-,, while last night's WSND telcplwnl' poll showed that Mro1.'s lead had shrunk overnight to just 3';!,, The 
crucial  undecided  vote  was  
approximately  20%  in  both  
polls.  

Accusations i.lnd rumors high­lighted last night's campaign activity. Candidate Mike Kl~ndall denied the flurry of rumors that had him resigning from the race. Kendall insisted lh<Jt lw was in the campaign to the end. Ken­dall relTived 6% of thl' projected vote in last night's WSND poll. 
SBP candid<Jte Tim Mrllugh announced last night that Ill' is releasing his h<JIIots to candidalt' hi McCarlin. 
"Anybody who would voll' for llll' ran voll'for him(Mr<'ar­lin)." said Mrllugh. ".JUSI as long as we lwat Kendall." 
Candid;rll' ML·C.1rlin st:rll'd last night that he and his running mate Jack Fi<Jia were approa­ched on March 2 by Tl'd Jones, 

vice-presidential c<Jndid<Jtl' to John Mroz, in wh<Jt McCartin viewed as an <Jltl'mpt to ask him and Fiala to withdraw from the SBI' race. 
McCartin q uotcd Jones as having said, "We want to join your ideas with our campaign because it is a waste of time for us to run against each other." McCartin added that he felt the statement was <1 thinly-veiled attempt at urging him out of the race. 
Commenting 011 the McCartin accus;rtion, SBP candidate John Mroz st<Jtcd, "We arc deeply distressed th<Jt Mr. ML.·Cartin received Tl·d Jones' overtures as he did. Ted in no way attempted to pressure McCartin from the 
nH.:C_,, Thl· S U AC comrnissioner, referring to his <Jnd ML·Carlin's campaigns, said, "our hasic con­cepts of student involVl'ment and ronrnn arc rlosl'ly para 1­lcl." Mrot. saw lhL' Jones' "ovn­lun•s" as "<~n arknowlcdgt'lllt'lll 
continued on palJe 2 

right to refuse to print any submitted material which is in the judgment of the Student Union l:lo<Jrd of Directors is fotind to he indet~ent, Jihelous, or in other grave respect at opposition with the ideals of this University community.'" 
F<Jther Joyce, one of the prin­cipals in the Vaci/ine contro­versy, did not <Jttcnd the meet­ing. His viewpoints were trans­mitted to the meeting hy the chairman, Dean Lawless. 
Father Joyce informed Dean Lawless by W<JY of two letters. In the first letter Joyce said, "It 
is my understanding that the magazine contains lewd <Jnd indecent material sufficient to have it rejected by the South Bend printer who originally had been engaged for the job. If the content is indeed so question­able, the foreknowledge of this by the University could place us in a dubious Jcg<JI position if Wl' permitted the printing to he done on a campus facility.'' 
Joyce also felt that the "Pub­lication Policy" <JS stated on pages I 2 and 13 of the Student Manual needs clarification. He stiltes that " ... I douht that the situation currently faced with Ihe Vacilinc magazinl' was antici­
contlnucd on page 2 ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::;;:. 
@ Afro.;.Amer~ 1 :~~~:endorsement m~ 

Notre Dame's Afro­A meric<J n Society last night endorsed the Mroz­Joncs ticket. The follow­ing is the statement released by the Society after the meeting: 
"The Afro-Amcric<~n Society of Notre Dame has voted to endorse the c<Jn­dilhrcy of Ted Jones and John Mr01.. The decision was hascd on the necessity for l:llack Pcopk to sup­pori one anol hl·r lwrause of the solidarily Black People musl maintain. Tlwl is to say that WL' don't m·n·ss:~rily support t hL' p latlorrn ol .John 
' 

~­
PAGE 2 TUEaiJAV. MARCH 11. 1969
THE OBSERVER 

Festival Is biggest yet 




Jazz Festival starts Friday 
The Annual Notre Dame Collegiate 1azz Festival opens Friday with the I:30 and 7:30 shows at Stepan Center. This years festival sports the most jazz. Clark Terry is an excellent trumpet player and a featured member of the Tonight Show band. Another trumpet player, Thad Jones, is the leader of the 
The first festival, held in 1959, was organized by a group of students. It was the first of its kind on the collepe level and 
today is still the .best. ~he stu-


SI.C reviews •vaciline' 
continued from page 1 

pated when the policy was form­ulated." In his second letter to Dean Lawless, Father Joyce says the following issues are at stake: 
"a) A determination of the 
legal consequences to the univer­
sity if the publication ( Vaciline) 
is attacked by civil authorities or 
by interested citizen groups. 
"b) Prcscinding from the 
question of legal pornography, is 
the content of the magazine 
such as should emanate from the 
University of Notre Dame? 
"c) The status of the student 
editors and all participating in 
the project in view of R ulc 7, 
page 19 in the Student Manual. 
Should not disciplinary steps be 
invoked against them?" (Rule 7 
states: "Taking part in or 

actively contributing to an 
unlawful public disturbance or 

exhibiting lewd or indecent 
behavior, actions or gestures that 
would offend the morals and/or 

sensibilities of the University 
community.") 
Father Joyce, in his letter, also concerned himself with "the approved and regularly circula­ted student magazines and news­papers" at Notre Dame which are run by "... presumably responsible editors ... selected for their maturity and judgment. .." He felt that there " ... should be a mechanism whereby the content of the publication and the decisions of the editor can come under review 'post factum.' " 
Each member of the SLC was 

SMC Assembly Acts on· services 
Monday night a general assem­bly of St. Mary's students passed three resolutions creating a new student service organization. The vote was 574 to 21 in favor of setting up the new body. 
The second resolution deter­

mined that the organization will 
consist of a director and corn­
missioners appointed "by the 
permanent members of the 
cabinet and approved by the 
student assembly.'' Barb Curtin, 
Student Body Secn~tary, termed 
the measures "really r.eccssary." 
The body will work under the student government services and work out of a budget from Student Government fees. The director will administer and co­ordinate the organization with­out approval, but conflicts will be resolved by the student assembly. 
furnished with a copy of the 
magazine at the meeting. Discus­
sion ranged from the literary 
value of the publication to the 
validity of Father Joyce's 
actions. Accordingly, stands 
ranged from Prof. Bernard 
Norling's assertion that the 
magazine was pure "garbage" to 
Richard Rossie's assertion that 
Father Joyce "violated the rights 
of the University community." 
In the middle was Prof. James 

Massey who authored the resolu­
tion that was adopted (a smaller 
version was originally proposed 
by Rossie). 
Also at the meeting were 

Marty McNamara, Don Hynes, 
and Cathy Cecil, three of the 
four publishers of Vaciline. 
McNamara asked if he could 
speak to the Council. Since he is 
not an SLC member, unanimous 
approval was needed by the 
Council. Prof. Edward Murphy 
voted no, thus denying McNa­
mara permission to speak. 
Toward the end of the meet­

ing, Dean Lawless established a 
committee to investigate the 
general area of student publica­
tions. Manning the committee 
arc Father McCarragher, Richard 
Rossie, and Prof. Murphy. 
The next meeting will be on 

March 24 at 4:00 in the C.C.E. 
Building.
Down to the wire finish 
continued from page 1 
of their (McCartin and Fiala's) sincerity and concern for the same needs at Notre Dame which we hold to he basic." 
0 ff-campus problems were the subjects of Phil McKenna's campaigning last night. McKenna submitted an 0-C platform that included: I) the creation of a cabinet post to work on the problems of 0 C housing, such as assistance to students who seck redress against a landlord, aid in informing students of hca lth ordinances most fre­quently violated by landlords, and an increase in distribution of 
the OBSERVER and Sclwl­
astic; 2) proportional represen­
tation for 0-C students in the 
Senate. 
"We feel," said McKenna, 

"that no student should be for­
ced to live in South Bend against 
his desires; conversely, no stud­
ent, after freshman year, should 
be prevented from living 0-C if 
he has parental approval." 
He also commented that "the 

University has done little to pre.. 
vent discrimination against some 
students because of race, nation­
ality or personal appearance ..." J uoges, the largest number of groups, and the most prizes that have ever been assembled. 
The list of judges for this years event is impressive. Dan Morgenstern is the editor of Downbeat magazine, the first magazine to separate rock from tamous Thad Jones~Mell Louis Band now playing in New York. Gary McFarland is a vibes player in his own band. Ernie Wilkens composes for many big bands as well as playing the sax. Sonny Stitt is another sax player and 
plays in his own tri:.::o.:...------, val has been enlarged to include
Run Your Own Ad 
I 4 groups competing on the high school level.

For St. Patrick's Day 
The prizes include trophies, plaques, and instruments for the· individual winners for each 
instrument. Six groups are honored, the three bands and combo's. The first place winner 

Say hello to her through 
'the News Medial 
receives a trophy and a trip to the Newport Jazz Festival. There is also the po~sibility that the

Three Lines -$1.00 Six Lines -$1.75 
winning group may be selected by the State Department to take a trip abroad. The last three 
example 
winners have been awarded trips, and State Department represen­tatives will be present at this 
To Dickie G., 

weeks festival. Right here, 
A Symposium on Jazz will be held Thursday at 7: 30 in the

Harvey O'Patrick! 
Kellog Center in conjunction
-DaveS. 
with the festival. Two events also sponsored by the festival took place last weekend. A lec­ture on the Development of

Come up to the 
music through slavery to the OBSERVER BUSINESS OFFICE 
present day jazz was given by Second Floor LaFortune 
Ken Mclntyre of Central State. Sunday night the Bill Hurd

Any Afternoon This Week 
Quintet, the foremost jazz musi­
cians on campus, performed in 
Washington Hall. 
dents enlisted the help ot instru­ment companies and selected 12 bands for the first competition. Since that time the number of entries has been raised to I 9 and there are now 20 such festivals held on the college level. Contes­tants are selected from tape auditions sent in from all over the country. This year the festi­

SBP Elections 
Tomorrow Wednesday March 12 
in the halls  off campus office  
II:30 -I  basement of Lafortune  
5:30 -7  9 -7  

Reminder: Seniors Are Eligibile to Vote 
TUESDAY, MARCH 11, 1969 

THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 


hard. harder than any of those four young rrlL'n will in thL·ir 
Rohhcry 
'/"he Following is a m(J_I' of a 

future job lives and yl'l I know
letter sent to Father .lames 

in 111y hl'arl I will probably never
/Uehlc•, /Jean of Students which 

nwh Ihe equivaknt salary, hold­
he jiJrwarded to The Observer. 

ing two jobs, than each of them 1-.tl ilor: will, holding one job· the differ­This 111orning at approximate­
cnn· being L'ducalion. ly I :30 a.m. I was mhhed of I NpokL' of this matter with $.75 hy four of your students. several olhL·r L·ab drivns and l driVL' a cab for The Indiana 
they all expressed their surprise. Cab Co. anti was directed by 
We really didn't expect that radio to nrake a routine pickup 
sort of conduct or rather the al "l,.rankiL·s" rL·stauranl. lack of conduct, fro111 a Notre There I piL·kcd up four Vl'ry DamL' student. L'Oid young men who wanted me 
I now fel'l that the next lime to Lakehack to the "Cirde" area 
a Notre Darm· studenlL'nlL'rs my of the ca111pus. cab 1'111 going to treat him with Upon arriving, they all got out 
the san1e type of suspicion and 
of the cab and slarll'd running in distrust as I would if l were to lhrL'L' or four different direc­pick up any other type of drunk, tions l YL'llL·tl for them to slop, boisterous or unsavory type per­
to no avail, and was rL•ally and son. truly shocked at their co11duct. l know r11ayhc I shouldn't 
I've always admired and regard the entire student body in re~pecled College students as the same call'gory as there's I'Vl' never had thL' opportunity been numenHIS ol her students in to go. I always thought how my cab who have acted lih lucky a l'olll:ge slutknl is to be decent persons the kind who able to gel a good education and everyone likL'S to associate with have a chancL' to amount to hut I really got soured this something in life. morning. 
The name of NotrT Dame is a l wrotL' this cause I'm mad very respected onL' hot h here in and disappointed and wanted to So. Bend and indeed the entire ll'l you know jusI in case some­country. day one of the student body 
The loss of the 111onL'Y is should ever' complain about my 
n·ally inL·onSL'!J UL'nl ial It's the conduct as his driver when he conduct of thoSI.' four young becomes a passenger in my cab. lllL'n that really shocked me. 
Respectfully, lkcausL' of the number of my 
l·:ugene Mendoga depcmknls I am forCL'd to hold I wo jobs to make ends mcl'l and Listen to providL' lhL·m with what lillk 
Editor: easL' and comfort I L'an l work Last Friday, Don llynes 
Court rejects appeal 
WASIIINC;TON (UPI) The for graduate students hut arc Supreme Court yesterday governed under the 1951 law refused to delay the induction of which kfl graduate student 
The Mail 
allcmplcd to follow the adage, 
"If you can't think of anything 
to write about alll'nd a campus 
lecture and con1rm·nt on it." 
llnforlunaiL'Iy, in doing so, he 
ovcrlookcd, hL' ignored the 
unwritten assumption, thai the 
columnist should listcn to I he 
speech. 

For some rL·ason, perhaps 
because he was toopiTOCL'UPiL·d 
with the waVl' of lhL' future as it 
is represented in l'aciline, Mr. 
II Yncs a PPL'ars to haVl' grasped 
only an occasional phrase of the 
senator's and not his message. 
Ills resulting treatn1cnt of the 
senator's address is much the 
same as if he had rnaliciously 
taken him out of context. 

Mr. !Iynes is aghast that the 
senator should cite the example 
of the medieval universities 
which passed "judgment on the 
institutions of society from an 
independent position," but I 
have often heard Mr. llynes, 
himself, argue against the 
inroads these institutions were 
111 a k in g on I he u n iversi tics 
through defense research and the 
visits of their recruiters. What 
prompted him to take part in 
the Dow-CIA protest if it was 
not a desire to maintain the 
campus' independence of these 
institutions and its right to pass j udgmcnt on them'! 
The senator's mention of vocations being viewed in the 15th century as <1 calling to the individual must have triggered horrible memories of six! h grade religion classes because Mr. llyncs seems to have missed everything the senator said during the following two or three minutes. The point he was making was not that we should rl'lurn to the monaslaries, hut rather that we should reclaim an 
altitude. An altitude which 
future lies in rhanges made from within society's exisilng existing framework. To deny this belief is to advocate either the status quo or I he desI ruction of the existing fra IIIL'work and 1he cre­ation of a vacuum to he filled by anarchy or tyranny. 
Perhaps Mr. !Iynes was put­ting Notre Dame on; l hope so. lie has shown too r11ud1 poten­tial to relish decaying in the nihilism of anarchy. 
John C. McCoy Correction 
Fd itor: 

I would like to make a cor­rection, for the record, coneern­ing the OBSFRVFR'S endorse­ment of Phil McKL·nna for Student Body PrL·sidenl. Your editorial, in speaking about SLC Hall Life Report, slates that "One of the primary figures in the drafting of that report was .. . McKenna." This, I am afraid, is pure fiction. The main authors of the S LC Report and I he l hrec approved proposals were Fr. James Riehlc, Fr. Ernest Bartell and myself. · 
Sincerely, 

F. Ronald Mastriana Member, St udenl Life Council 
Poll<>  
l·:ditor:  
I  would  like  to  make  some  
comments  regarding  the  latest  
0/JSU? Vh"R  "poll".  The  

lwo-way race rcfkcted within lhl' poll must not he regarded as an adequate portrayal of student feelings. The Apt-Sloan ticket is strongest with not only the mature, serious student, but the off-campus student who you were undoubtedly unable to intnvicw fairly. 
With our campaign holding back until the ultimate moment when student dissatisfaction 
Ominous 
t-:d it or: 

Of all lhl' failings of till' T went icl h Century, none is more serious than the sikncc and complacency of our general ion in allowing our nation to bl' "dL·fendcd" by an inhuman nuclear force. 
If there was any ambiguity to l he principles involved, our failure could be more easily understood; hut even by tllL' most general Christian conL"L'pts the nuckar structure is totally inexcusabll'. Yet, we condone it with thL' kind of mathcnratkal morality that let those before 11s shrug their shoulders at Ihe bombing of Hiroshima, and continUL' with life as usual. 
To l'arh of us this is a personal failure; but even morL' frightening is the almost total lack of a response from our own leadership, particularly, I might say, in our own university. 
If Fr. lleshurgh has intkL'd acted lo protect the frcedo 111 of the university, let us hope that. he has the courage and wisdom to implement il when <rod where it is most needed. If we concern ourselves with trifles while the ex lindion of our species is being calculated, we will have SUCCL'edcd in only SO IIIllCh whimpering. Let us not talk falsely now. The hour is gl'lling late. 
Sincerely, 
c;crald !logan 
316Walsh 
Letters to the Editor should not exceed one typewritten page and must be signed. Address all letters to: Editor, THE OBSERVER, PO Box 11, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

frve graduate students who contended they were being illegally drafted into the Army. One of them was Theodore P. Kaplysh of the Notre Dame Law School.  dcferrnL·nts up to the pn·sidcnl. The ol her men inducted include Thomas F. Dixon. Case Western Reserve Law School; Max 11. Schwartz, University of Louisville Law School; and  111akcs every job a vocation in the sense that the individual's primary concern is not a second car or a vacation in the Bahama's, hut rather the good which accrues to society through  with the other candidates will be at its height. we must question the reliability of the poll. We ensure our followers that the results can he, must he, and will be-different. Victory  Please accept our apology for the erroneous listings of last week's Student Union Calen­dar. ...A Service of Student  
Kaplysh  was  unavailable  for  William  W.  Craham  and  his  actions.  And  while  I  may  John Sloan  Union  
co nnnenl  last  night.  J uslice  (;coffrey  /\.  lthcn,  studying  have  been  mistaken  I've always  
Potter Sll'wart had ten1porarily barred the inductions pending a decision on the matln by the  psychiatry and art respectively, al Case Western Reserve. The court has held that  been under the impression that it was to express a similar rejcc lion of ma lcrialism that Mr.  " the system promoks to the top those who don't care about the planet." Kurt Vonncgul Jr.  
entire court afll'r the justice dcparln1enl submitted its views  Divinity students and other specifically L'xcmplcd by law  llyncs wore those heads. Finally Mr. !Iynes blanches at  Newsweek March 3, 1969  
The t h a I  department contended u n d L' r r e c c n l n c w  from the draft may fill' pre-induction lawsuits if they arc  McCarthy's duals IIIllS[  belief that, "Indivi­he concerned with  Tomorrow  you'll  have  your  chance  to  refute  this  
regulations  the  men  arc  not  classified  1-A.  Others  may  ins! itutions  and  their  perfec­ system.  
enlitkd to pre-induction court n·view as the inductees claim.  challenge lhl'ir draft status only h y fl abcas Corpus afln  tion." slra ll's  This readion dcmon­a failure to have grasped  Don't blow  it.  
The draflces a I so argued l hat l hL'Y arc not l'overcd hy l he new  induction c r i 111 in al  or as a charge  defense to a of rdusing  I he belief, which moved Senator McCarl hy to Ia unch his cam­ VOTE McCARTIN ·  FIALA  
regulation  culling  deferments  induction.  paign, naml'ly Ihat hope for the  

FINAL TICKET SALES JUNIOR PARENTS -SON WEEKEND 
WIL.L. BE HEL.D WED. MARCH 12, 7:30 • 9:30 in the FIEST A LOUNGE of the STUDENT CENTER 
CHECK PAYMENT PREFERRED 
THE OBSERVER TUESDAY, MARCH 11, 1969 
The Marrieds: How do they pay for it? 
by Ted Price 

This is the second part of a fipe-part series on .the married students at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
"I didn't raise my daughter to marry a 

college  bum  without a dime  in  the  
Bank!"  
"But  son,  how  arc  you  going  to  
support her?"  

Although they may not be as vocal as the two fictitious fathers above, most parents respond to the announcement that their son or daughter is going to marry before he or she is finished school with objections on the financial level. Thl~Y do have a point: how docs a student couple manage with the expense of being married? 
This was the subject of the major portion of a questionnaire we sent to a random sample of all married students at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. (We had sixty percent response to the questionnaire, gtvmg a maximum probability of error of 0.05.) We used the answers from this to provide a base for further investigation. 
Most married couples here arc left to thrir own devices. Extrapolating from the q ucstionnairc, we found that slightly less than thirty percent of the couples arc receiving aid from their parents. 
"I don't really want help from my parents," reported one junior in an interview. "Please understand th<Jt I am not being hostile toward them, hut I 
ould rather that my wife <Jnd I nwkc it n our own." His wife added, "Both sets of parents ere against us getting married, before ack had graduated. They warned us that 
e would have trouble, and said that they 
ould help if we needed it. But we arc lrctty proud of the fact that we can get tlong on our own." Many students were equally as proud 
APPLICATIG:~s arc no·.·: being accepted for the position of Editor-in-Chief of the OBSERVER. The position is open to any undergraduate student of St. Mary's College and th:: University of Notre Dame. Applicants must submit a letter of intent and resu111C to: 
THE EDITORIAL BOARD c/o Mr. William Luking Editor-in-Chief The Observer Box II Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Applications for editor should be postmarked by March 13. 
STEPAN CENTER 
Dance Spectacular 
•••••• DIRECT FROM ENGLAND ••• ••• 
THE 

SPENCER DAVIS GROUP 
"Gimmc Some IAJvin "-"Somebody 1/elp Me" "I'm A Man" PLUS 
THE CAMBRIDGE FIVE WEDNESDAY MARCH 12, 1969 
7· .10 to JJ·OOPM 
Senior Stockholders: 
Nickel Beer -tonight 
March II. 4-9 p.m. up­
stairs at the 
Alumni Club 

of their financi<JI independence, although 
those who were receiving aid did not fcl'l 
at <JII constrained by it. 

"Look, if we tried to gel by on wh<ll 
Mary makes downtown, plus what I get 
working part tinlt' for the University, 
we'd st<Jrvc in <J week," said a Senior. "So 
my parents arc picking up my tuition. 
But I will pay them hack for it later." 
Again, the need for independence. 
University policy on finaiH.:ial aid for 
marrieds is rather unclear. Several 
students who had had scholarships before 
they were married reported that they 
were revoked afterwards. 

"I just got a letter from them and they s:tid they couldn't carry me anymort'," said one Sophomore bitterly. "I had a very good average, and since I have been married, it has slipped less than six hundredths of a point. But when my need increased, tht• axe fell.'' 
University officials refused co.mmcnt on question of such a policy. 
For most couples, it becomrs a question of work Who works, and how much is a variable quantity, however. In most cases, the non-student spouse, if there is one, has a fulltimc job and is the primary support of the couple. Tht· student often has a parttimc job as well. 
Probably the two most common occupations for the wives arc teacher, at both the demcntary and secondary lrvcl, (generally for graduates) and secretary (undergrad wives). These arc also the best paying jobs reported, and many couples arc actually ahlr to hank some of their earnings and begin moderate savings 
accounts. 

"I didn't have very much trouble finding a job," said one wife, a secretary for a downtown manufacturer. "Nor did many of the other wives I haw spoken to." 
Of course, for those husbands whose 
wives arc students, although they arc not, careers arc already started and generally problems in this area arc n1inumal. However, thnc were several couples in which neither had a fulltime job, although only one was a student. The most common reason l'iven for this was thl' wife's prcgni.lncy, hut there wert' a 
I 
\ 
\
I 
J,, ...... 
·1 
\I 
i \ 
·\ 
' (:;· 


t 
:""~: 

fpw husbands who simply did not want their wives to work, regardless. 
"There is really no reason for my wife to work," said one graduate. "I gut~ss I'm a sr•:ci<Jl case since I work as a professional diver, hut summer work and a rarttimc job at the tJnivcrsity enablr us to get through." 
We found no cases in which one spouse was a fulltimc student and a fulltimc worker. Most couples do not even consider it, and those who do quickly discard the idea as m~ar impossible. 
Those  who  Sl~cmed  to  have  the  
toughest  tinll'  finding a joh  were  the  
students  who  tried  for  parttime  

cmployml'nt outside the lJ niversity. The major objection against working for Notre Dame or St. Mary's is th<Jt the jobs do not pay well enough to make then worthwhik. 
The jobs that these students did find ranged from those as straight as sale. ckrk, to extraordinary as a piZ7.<l chef. But evcryont~ questioned said that it wa. not at all easy. 
''After one semester last year, I decided that a job in the Dining llalljust didn't pay enough. I was singk then, but knew that I had to save to get m<Jrricd," repor!l'd a Senior. "So I began looking around last winter and finally found a joh late in MarciL Luckily, I was able to talk them into rehiring me for this year." 
On thL' wholl', although the money i· usually thl' couples' major worry, most o them have hecn ahll' to live without going on relief. It is not easy, hut l he strain is not unbearable. But as one Senior surnnwd it up, "money is nice but it would he a helluva lot better if we didn't have to bother with it." 
Tomorrow: A Place in the Sun. For Notre Uame-St. Mary's marrieds, huusinx in South Hcnd is a major obstacle. flow do they KC'I o1•er it? 
Adm. $2.50 
--~~~----------~ 
Murphy elected Y AF Chairman 
Thomas Murphy, i.l junior, was elected Chairman for the Young Americans for Freedom in a 
meeting  last  night.  Murphy  
captured  73'Yo  of  the  volt'.  He  
replaces Bob Narucki,  a  Sl'nior.  

In his acceptance spt•ech, Murphy stated, "Next year, we want to show tbat the YAF is a responsible organization intercs!l'd in the growl h of Notre Dame. We have nl'Vcr thought oursl'lvcs a reactioni.lry group to the SDS and will prove this to the Notre Dame community the rest of this year and next year as well." 
Tom Murphy then named the llll~mbers of the Execut ivc Board for next year. The Board consists of Phil Schncidn, Steve Noe, and Frank McAleer. 
Aftcr Murphy's election. Bob Narurki stated, ''I am completl'ly satisfied with the progress the organit.ation has made, and I am confident that the new chairman. Tom Murphy, will adequately fulfill his chairmanship and further the causes of conservatism and contribute to the idei.Jis of Notre Dame." 
Before the ell'ction, Narucki 
---------------·­

Juniors 
Absolutely last chance to have your picture taken for the 1970 Dome. Stop in Room 2-B of the Student Center or call H 129 TODAY to make your appointment. 
Yearbook Staff 
-

gave his evaluation of tht~ past with the co-opera! ion of the rest year and his suggestions for next of the organization, makl' our year. policies and philosophies known 
"i have probably spent too to the campus.'' much time on my own problems Murphy, the newly-l'lected and complaints rather than chi.tirman, also stated, "WL· want discovering the organization's to gl'l as many pcopk as we can own ideas and opinions.Nexl in the campus media as well as year's chairman must lw student government. so that we dedicated to YAF, and hr must, ci.Jn propose certain lcgisl<~tion." 
Vista visits to recruit 
This week VISTA (Voluntcns The short film shows VISTA In Scrvit:l' To A mcrica) volunteers working with the recruitrrs will visit the Notre pcopk of their L"OIIIIIlllllitics to Di.lmt' and St. Mary's t:ampust•s. meet the challenges of today. Thl'ir purpose in coming is Lynne Wcinhurg, coordinator twofold. of the SMC drivl', said, "'VISTA 
First, they will recruit is interested in pl'opll' who an· interested peopll' who would willing to dedicate one yrar to like to improve the condition of living with the poor. We 
arc 

the poor, whik living and especially intcresll'd in college 
working among them. students who fcl'l tht·y have 
Second, they will try to particular talent which can he explain what VISTA is all ahout used to fight povnty. Vigorous, to those who may h;IVl' SOIIIl' bright, young pl·opk are interest. especially valuahk in developing "While I Run This Race," a nl ucat ion, n·creation, and color dorullll'lltary narrated by community organization Charll'lon llcston with a musical programs." score by Charlie Byrd, will bt· The drive at SMC will he held shown at 7:00 pm today and only on March I~ and 13. For 
5:00 pm Wednesday, March 12 further details, the n·cruitcrs will 
at the Center for Continuing he in the foyer of N.D.'s Library Fdlll·ation, and at I :00 pm on and in the SMC Rl'ignhcaux Thursday, March 13 at SMC. Roo111.  
T llc Observer IS published daily during t11e college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 4f.'•"f·  




