~-------------­
THE WORLD TODAY 
U.S. condemns North Korean offensive 
PANMUNJOM (UPI)-The United States told North Korea today it committed "A calculated act of aggression" when it shot down a 
U.S. Navy plane at least 90 miles from North Korean territory last Tuesday. The U.S. spokesmen then walked out of the meeting called by North Korea without waiting for any reply. 
The North Koreans had the privilege of speaking first at the session demanded by them in Panmunjom's "truce village" head­quarters. They used it to level accusations about alleged breaches of the Korean cease firs. The Americans then condemned them for shooting down the plane, challenged the communists to propose a recess and, when they refused to call it, walked out. 
North Korean Maj. Gen. Ri Choon Sun opened the 290th meeting of the Korean Military Armistice Commission-first face to face meeting between the United States and North Korea since the plane was downed-and confined his remarks exclusively to accusing the United Nations Command (UNC) of breaking the cease fire along the Korean truce front. 
Maj. Gen James B. Knapp, the U.S. Air Force officer who heads the UNC delegation the these talks, then replied directly on the subject of the lost Navy plane and its 31 men, all presumed dead. 
"Gen. Ri, three days ago your air force staged an unprovoked attack on a U.S. airplane," the bespectacled U.S. officer said in firm, quiet tones. 
CHINA 


map by Phil Bosco 
Knapp said the Navy plane was engaged "in completely legitimate reconnaissance operations" and was never any closer than 90 miles from North Korean airspace at any time in its flight. 
Knapp remarked that such reconnaissance missions through interantional airspace were make necessary by communist threats to peace in the area. But he made clear the U.S. position that the United States had international law on its side in this incident. 
"No one can believe a single propeller driven airplane represented a threat to you," Knapp said, adding that the attack was "a calculated act of aggression." 
"What is this large plane you talk ab out?" Ri snapped when Knapp finished speaking. 
"I have nothing further to say. Do you propose a r~cess?" Knapp replied. The two exchanged the same question and answer once more, whereupon the UNC delegation stood up and walked from the room. The meeting had lasted exactly 45 minutes from its II a.m. 9 p.m. EST starting time. 

Sirhan convicted of first degree 
LOS ANGELES (UPI) -Sirhan B. Sirhan was convicted of first degree murder yesterday for the assassination of Sen. Robert F. Kennedy-a verdict that could send him to the gas chamber. 
The same jury that convicted the 25 year-old Arab must decide next week whether Sirhan's sentence will be death or life imprison­ment. Attorneys estimated prosecution and defense arguments on the penalty would take only one and one-half days with the jury beginning deliberations Tuesday afternoon. 
Sirhan pressed his lips tightly together but neither spoke nor moved as the maximum verdict was read after a 15 week trial. 

Dubcek asked to resign; Husak In 
PRAGUE (lJPI)-Alexander Dubcek, first secretary of Czechoslo­vakia's Communist party, resigned under fire yesterday night for having led the nation down a "blind alley." He was replaced by Gustav Husak, a conservative regarded as more acceptable to the Soviet Union. 
Husak, 56 year old leader of the Slovak branch of the party, promptly announced on a nationwide radio televeision hook-up there would be no return to Stalinism. He said the nation would rem_l!in loyal to the reforms of the Dubcek era. 
A short tune after Dubcek's resignation was announced, about 200 young people massed in Wenceslas Square. A force of about two dozen police and soldiers broke up the protest meeting and ordered the youths to leave the area. 
The young people, who had been standing silently at the fool of King Wenccslas' statue, whistled and hooted in derision as they left. 
President Ludvik Svoboda announced the shakeup in a statement preceding Husak's appearance and said it was accompanied by undisclosed changes in the composition of the party's policy making presidium. 


E OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
VOL. Ill, N0.117 FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 1969 
Rossie involves ND •
1n suit 

The National Student Associa­"violate the equal protection of versity of Maryland. tion, together with Notre Dame the law by drawing invidious "This action is very important and two other Universities filed distinctions depending on source to students of all schools," a suit yesterday challenging the of financial aid." Dedrick declared. constitutionality of legislation 
Dedrick stated that he felt The suit names Robert Finch, that would cut off Federal aid to that the main effect of having Sec. of HEW, Melvin Laird, Sec. students who engage in disrup­Notre Dame as a co-plaintiff was of Defense, and Leland J. tive campus protests. "to lend our name to the bill." Haworth, head of the National The move to have Notre He also cited the geographic Science Foundation, as defen­
Dame as a co-plaintiff, was distribution of the schools dants. Rossie commented on theinitiated by ex-Student Body involved. The other two univer­reasons why these men were President Richard Rossie. NSA 

sities are Berkely, and the Uni-picked.
contacted Rossie during the time between the election and swear­ing in of Phil McKenna. NSA requested that the action not be 

TMH opens conference 
publicized. As a result Rossie was not able to secure Student The Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, of the university in an effort to Senate approval of his action, President of the University define its basic goals and values, 
before committing the Notre opened a three day conference and to maintain them against all Dame student government to the on "The Task of Universities in a internal and external forces that action. At the March 31 s~· meet­Changing World" at the Center would pervert or denatvrc ing of the Senate 'Rossie for Continuing Education yester­them." explained the entire matter, and day with a speech on the nature The University should provide received unanimous approval of of the challenge that faces Uni­a means for all three of its the action. versities today. constituent groups to aid in 
Whc.n contacted Rossie said, "Perhaps the most central eradicating the problems that "I told the Senate that if I did challenge facing Universities in a effect it. But Hesburgh warned, not receive their approval, I changing world," Hesburgh said, the university must guard against would immediately telegram the "is: Can Universities adapt them­confusing the capabilities and 
law firm and disavow the entire selves rapidly enough to survive the roles of the three groups of action." amid all the changes they have the community. He noted that When asked the reason behind stimulated?" 
"Latin American universities this action Rossie remarked, "I Hesburgh suggested that the have equated all roles with much consider the law with those stip­University is one of the most 
less than success." 

ulations a suppression of dissent, traditional of institutions, yet at at a time when it should be the same time is the one that is 
The University's creation of encouraged." most responsible for promoting community must be accom­change.

Rossie cited several specific plished to insure its role as "soci­reasons why he opposed the bills "It seems curious to suggest ety's most persistent and tena­
than an institution is contribu­
passed by Congress. One reason cious critic." 
ting by its activity to its own
being that he considers them as "I personally believe," giving the universities "an im­downfall, or that, in other Hesburgh said, "that the Univer­
words, the university has caused
proper delegation of congres­sity can be a real critic of both 
sional authority." Rossie was so much change, so quickly, that 
the public and private sectors referring to the section in the it cannot change itself quickly if it is honest, if it maintains ! bill which allows the universities enough to survive the conditions within its university community to decide which students should a very real commitment to
it has created," llesburgh said. 
have their Federal funds cut off. Hesburgh said that the ope ness, to rationality, to civil­~~!:":ivai of the university
Rossie also felt that the bill ity, to all the virtues that make depends on its ability to recreate
violated the first amendment, the University, in the words of "a vital university community."
concerning freedom of speech. the Post Laureate Masefield of Only the combination of fac­
England, "a splendid place." 
Fred Dedrick, Student Body ulty, administrators and students 

Hesburgh lamented the fact would be able to confront theVice-President also commented that today's rapidly changingon the action, saying "Phil and I problems that the University world has created
concurred with Rich on the a generation
faces today. 
that is so "ahistorical." "The university today,"case." 
"Somewhere, when all isDedrick also listed his objec­Hesburgh claims, "needs great changing, "llesburgh said, "theretions to the bill. lie felt that the 

inner strength, a strength that be some
must constants, somebills are "ambiguous and gener­has been sapped by inner dis­anchors, some unfailing faith inal." He also cited the five rea.­

unity-faculties that have forgot­God, or man, or truth, or the sons put forth by NSA against ten that the most important good, or all of these in somethe bills. They are: the bills are a of a is
function professor to workable combination."
violation of "free speech, free teach, to profess; students who Hesburgh continued, "Man,conscience, ·and freedom of have on occasion pressed dissent no matter how much he changes,assembly;" the bills in effect are to the point of violence and is still man, and his problems are"bills of attainder;" the bills boorishness that militate against still profoundly human." Con­"violate due process and punish those central, values of the uni­sequently, the university mustviolators according td economic versity' reason and civility; not forget that although it muststatus;" the bills are unlawful administrators who have forgot­
be concerned with "real"

delegation of legislative power to ten that their greatest function is improvements for mankind, itsthe universities;" and that they to unite all the component parts 
"education mission is always and everywhere profoundly human, concerned with the spiritual and moral constants that make man's history something quite differ­ent from animal history." 
llesburgh's speech was the opening speech of a three .day conference on the role of the University in the modern world. The conference will continue today and tomorrow. Speakers at the sessions are from colleges and universities around the nation. 




THB OBSUIIBit 
FRIDAY, APRIL 18,1969 

STEWART SANDWICH SERVICE 
A va ilab le in every hall on campus 
Stewart Sandwich 
Service 925 Blaine 232-2625 
RIVER PARK 
MISHAWAKA AVE. at 30th PHONE 288·8488 
l 
WINNER OF 6 ACADEMY 
AWARDS! 
MEIDOODNYN MAYER 
A'OOO'~ flmCT~ 
DAVID LEAN'S 
FILM~R~PASTERNAI'~J, 


DOCfOR 

ZHJ\1\GO Ends 
Thurs IN PA_NAVISION' AND METROCOlOR 24th 
TIMES: Fri.-li:ilO, 8:00 Sat., Sun.-1 :30, 5:30,8:30 Mon.-Thurs.-7:30 








"Francis Albert Sinatra Does His Thing'' 
(One tnore tin1e!) 

Ifyou missed Frank's' DIAHANN CARROLL and show last Fall, take THE FIFTH DIMENSION! 
heart! We're bring­ing the whole Thing back for an encore ... same great Sinatra ... same great guests: 

Budweiser. is the King ofBeers. 
(Hut you know that.) 

ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS • NEWARK • LOS ANGELES • TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS 


Sophomores to boycott Giuseppe's 
The Sophomore Class is now circulating a letter, signed by representatives from eighteen halls, urging students to boycott Giuseppe's restaurant. The soph­omore class government ts cal­ling for such action because of the recent dosing of the Quaba club, a sophomore-sponsored party room in Giuseppe's. 
The Sophomores opened the Quaba Club on St. Patrick's Day, with the agreement that the sophomore class would split all costs and all profits with Giu­seppe. The use of the room was promised, rent free, to the soph­omore class until they grad­uated. 
When asked why he closed the 
Quaba Club, Giuseppe said the "the trouble was at the door." The agreement was that Giu­seppe would allow the soph­omores to collect the admission price at the door, while he would stay behind the bar. Diuseppe said there were nights when very large numbers of students showed up at the par­ties, but that no money was turned in to him. 
"It was up to them to under­stand that l had to be making money," Giuseppe said. "I think you would feel the same way in my position." 
Giuseppe said he did not want to accuse any students of failing to turn in the admission fees Class Vice-President, said, "We were always taking in the mon­ey, and not letting anyone in free. At the end of the night we would count the money and then split it." He added, "There were evenings when the expenses equalled the amount of money taken in at the door, so neither Giuseppe's nor the sophomore class received any profit at the door." 

D'Aurora continued to say 

that on the nights when Giu­
seppe thought there to be very 
large numbers in the Quaba 
Club, there was "nowhere near 
that." 
Sophomore Class President 

Barry Doyle said the main 
Andofcourse,samegreatsponsor. (But you know that.) 
MONDAY, APRIL 21 CBS-TV 9-10 p.m. EST (but check your local listing just to be sure.) 


Itonly tastes 
•

r--e~penstve 
! 
When asked about the con­tract, Giuseppe said that he had decided with the sophomore class that no written contract was necessary. 
Doyle said Giuseppe "was completely unreasonable about the whole thing" and that "he's had better offers." 
"Our offer couldn't have been more fair," Doyle commented. "We're afraid he might do this to someone else." 
Doyle said the letter being circulated by the sophomore class is meant "as a warning to people," since there now is a possibility that Giuseppe's will be raided regularly. 
Concerning the possibility of any other sophomore class clubs, Doyle said, "I don't thknk there is any other place...we sort of stumbled on Giuseppe's." 

Campus quief· 
· No major vandalism or larcen­ies occurred on campus over the Easter break, reported security ~:;~ Arthur Pears early yester-
The director pointed out the 
fact that strong security meas­ures were takea over the ten-day period to insure a minimum of possible trouble. Each hall was locked up every morning when 
once between the hours of 3 
a.m. and II p.m., security of·· ficers thoroughly checked the halls for any signs of distur­bances. At II p.m., individual officers stationed themselves in the halls until ahout 6:40 a.m. 
For Sale: Rupp A·Bone Kart and McCulloch MC49 E(lgine. Brand New, In Factory Carton. Lists $390. Selling For $300. Call: 2836908 
2836905 

The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

FRIDAY, APRIL 18,1969 711E OBSERVER 
PAGE 3 
SUAC, Dome, co-sponsor 
An agreement was reached yesterday between the Managing Director of the Athletic and Convocation Center, John Plouff, concerning the co-spon­sorship of concerts during home football, Grand Prix, and Mardi Gras weekends. 
Dave Vecchi, the Social Com­missioner, stated: "There had been conflicting interest bet ween the Social Commission and officials of the Convo Cen­ter over who was going to run concerts on foot ball weekends. The purpose of the meeting was to resolve this conflict and try to come to an agreement which would best serve the interest of the students. 
"The agreement we reached was that, first, the Social Com­mission would co-sponsor all concerts on the four home foot­ball, Mardi Gras, and Grand Prix weekends with Mr. Plouff. Next fall, however, since he has already contracted Bob Hope for the Michigan State weekend, Oct. 4, Mr. Plouff will run it himself." 
The Student Union President, Dennis Clark, stated,"The main reason we tried to get the Social 
Commission's  concerts  in  the  
Convo  Center  was  to  provide  
better  service  for  the  Student  

Body. We also hope to attract big name contemporary enter­tainment by holding these con­certs in the large auditorium.'' 






PIP0~ 
"A MILESTONE! -A FINE ­ACHIEVEMENTJ' 1 
-Jud"h Cml 
THE ACCLAIMED MOTION PICTURE 
John C1111vetes' "FAC BS" 
Times: 
Daily 6:30 9:30 Saturday 6:50 9:30 Sunday Continuous from 1:00 p.m. 
Coming 
THE COMMITTEE 


Wfire putting our money where it does you the most good. 
TWA is giving its people a million dollar bonus if they can make you happier than any other airline. 
And you students are going to help make sure we put the money in the right pockets. 
When you tly TWA, you 'II get a ballot. Write in the names of the TWA people who gave you super service. 
Drop your ballot into any of the bonus boxes you'll find at all of our terminals. 
And we'll see that those people get rewarded with some of that money. 
Now, for a change, you can have a chance to grade others on their work. 
TWA 
Our people make you happy. We make them happy. 

Applications Now Being Accepted for Positions On Student Government Cabinet Committees 
Student Legal Aid Committee Research and Development Commission Off-Campus Commission Public Relations Commission 
Contac. in writing: Gary Mcinerney Judicial Co-ordinator (by April 30th) 
Working On Co-Education, University Senate, Physical Plant etc. Contact: John Zimmerman Research & Development Co-ordinator 
Grad Students Welcome to Apply Contact: Bernie Ryan Off-Campus Co-ordinator 
Contact: Ed Davey Public Relations Co-ordinator 
Address All Applications tu the RestJectil'e Co-ordinator 
'l: t 

c/o Student Government Office Box 522 
Deadline: Tuesday, April 22 
Notre Dame, Ind. 
--_____________.
-~ 


THE OBSERfiEit
PAGE4 


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper TIMOTHY J. O'MEILIA, Editor-in-Chief DONALD C. HOLIDAY, Executive Editor DAVID M. BREEN, Business Manager FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
There oughta be a law 
"There should be a law," Father Hesburgh told a New York Post reporter recently, "That student newspapers can only be read by students. Adults shouldn't read them; it only raises your blood pressure. Of course you do read them, but you try to get the trustees not to, or the benefactors, or the mothers and fathers." 
An interesting mouthfuL 
Supposing for the moment that Father Hesburgh was serious when he made that statement-and that he wasn't misquoted by the Post reporter-it obviously says something about Father Hesburgh, the trustees, benefactors and parents and Notre Dame student publications. 
Mostly, it says that nobody really reads anybody around this place. And it appears to be a growing phenomenon. 
Observer Emeritus Bill Luking wasn't particularly jarred by the President's crack, and while he was half kidding when he 
responded "Hmph, nobody should read what Hesburgh writes," he was saying something about the present communications muddle on this campus. 
How else is a student editor to respond to a comment as inane as Hesburgh's appeared to be? Can he really take a University President seriously who would deal such a death of paternalism to a major student voice? 
To blast the paper on journalistic grounds is one thing, to reject it as he has done is still another. We wonder if Father Hesburgh has really read the Observer and the Scholastic this year, especially such insightful (and not all that inciteful) pieces of writing as the Scholastic Essay on the Notion of Community at Notre Dame. But then, maybe it's just that he doesn't like what students write. 
Well, that's OK. It is obviously the 
primary aim of neither the Scholastic nor the Observer to· be likeable; neither publication particularly aims to please. What both do attempt, though, is to inform and maybe even challenge a thought or two on campus. Both are plagued, however, with human imperfections. 
Father Hesburgh's impatience with media in general apparently increased since the reception of his letter by much of the liberal press. Evidently, he doesn't like them for much the same reason he doesn't like us. He doesn't like what they write. 
"The press kind of botched it up," he said of his letter's reception, insisting that 

-they missed the point. The point Father Hesburgh misses in his dealings with the press, however, is the HIS point is not always THE point. And this was the case with the letter. 
FRIDAY, APRIL 18,1959 

He says his point was the concept of a .--­university community, but the point for a press covering boiling pots on campuses-everywhere was that here 
supplied a 15 minute lid to, cool things off. Some papers thought it was a good idea, some thought it was bad. But for Hesburgh 

to say they "botched" it because they r------------------------, 
picked out the hard news of it was just a little presumptuous on his part. 
The purpose of the press is not so much to provide the public with an earphone, and to criticize what was spewn from the soapbox. Hesburgh has his soapbox in the public information department, and in the case of this university, the P.l. office provides comparatively straight forward treatment of the news. 
As Father Hesburgh continues his 
expansion in public affairs via draft and 
civil rights commissions, etc., he could save 
himself a lot of anxiety if he adopted a 
realistic attitude toward the national press
and toward the campus press. 
• Both function to report what he does, but perhaps more importantly they ·function to report the significance of what 
he does, or what he doesn't do. _In a similar vein, campus publications 



OBSERVER 

FEATURES 

L---­
Parting shots 
One of the truly distinctive personalities to emerge on 
the Notre Dame campus in the past few years has been 
Richard Rossie, Student Body President, retired. I presume 
that everyone knows the story of Rossie and the Student 
Government. The ~tory goes that one sum~er, Rossie headed n_orth to 

extst to report the significance of campus Memphts: to escape the hornd sentence of passmg the: events in a perspective of Angela Blvd. and su_mmer m that god for~a~en s~ate. H~ m~naged to pr?c~re beyond. And we are vain enough to think a JOb, a manual laborers JOb, m the btg ctty, for a butldmg 
that those concerned with the events of the contractor. campus who happen to live live beyond One day one of his bossmen was going through a newly Angela should read us. As Father Hesburgh built house with the new owner's wife while she explained 
points out, their blood pressure is apt to rise. They probably won't like what we say, perhaps because they don't agree with what 
we say. 

There is an added danger in trustees and benefactors reading student newspapers. Th~y are apt to find out what is really happening on campus, what student editors are really thinking. And they are more than apt not to like it and pick up their r 
the col~r sche~es she had _planned. for the rooms. Meanwhtle our Rtchard was outstde _workmg.. . . The contractor and_ the woman frrst went mto ~he hv1!lg ro_om where s~~ explamed_she wanted tan walls wtt_h whtte 
tnmlk. dThte tchontr~cdter dutdtfhulllyl mdade n?.tGe of t~dts, the~ wa e o e wm ow an o ere out, reen st e up.! b Thtde l~ddyd of t~ethou~e was evhe? more perplexed by this, U ect e agams saymg anrt mg and they 11_10Ved 0? to the s~cond bedroom, her son s. Here she have mstruchons for hght green paper. The contractor scribbled. And, sure 

investment and their money bags and g;'~~ e~ough;,~mbled over to the open window to shout, "Green 
home 

Ma~be the time has come to let them go~ Harry Truman wouldn't like this context one bit, but if he'll excuse us we'd like to suggest that trustees and ben~factors who 
can't (or won't) take the heat (and light) of today's campuses ought to mosey on home and read a good book on education. Such an open approach to things will undoubtedly cost some money. Maybe a lot of money. But intellectual openness isn't free, and who knows, maybe someday we'll all discover that the University's best 
(i.e. most informative, most intellectual) 
press agent is its student newspaper. An interesting mouthful, if we do say so 
ourselves. 
stde up. 
The poo~, confused woman just didn'~ know what to make of this. Sh~ started to say somcthmg, stopped and stuttered, for which the contractor gave her a queer glance and followed here into the third bedroom the master 
bedroom. . There she extemponzed on the great color design and scheme she envisioned for her own bedroom. The contractor stood and marked his charts furiously as the woma_n spoke, then paused in the middle, leaned out of the wmdow and repeated loudly, "Green side up!" The wom~n could contain herself no longer. Cutting short her_sohloquoy she rushed to the window, confronted the ~urpn~ed co?tractor an~ demanded to know why he perststed m yelhng somethmg green out the window in every room. 
The contractor chuckled. Then he said, "Oh, 1 have a 
crew out there working. I hired this high school kid named Rossie and I've got to keep reminding him that when you're laying sod the green side is always up, and not the brown." 


FRIDAY, APRIL 18,1969 
PAGE 5 
Old guard Nashville studio men Kenny Buttrey, Charlie M~.,-(~oy, and Pete Drake arc along for the ride once again, and evcryhody has a hoe-down on "Nashville Skyline Rag," an instrumental full of by BILL THIEMAN great solos, especially Pete Drake on steel guitar. Drake implied in Time that this 

Dylan, Cash go country 
The annual event IS upon us on~:e work his way ha~:k to his own begin­was a fun alhum to make, and it is a joy
again: Dylan has emerged from the mist nings." The Time review says a few good to listen. There will be no straining to
and pla~:ed an album upon the altar and things, hut that is not one of them. Dylan figure out what Dylan means with this
vanished again into the oblivion whi~:h has not gone in a circle; the inclusion of song, there will he no serious interpreta­
has always heen his. Nashville Skyline it is "Cirl from the North Country" is not a tions of what conditions motivated this
called and the cover depicts Dylan hold­sign that Dylan longs to return to the 
trend in music. Everybody was all set toing a country gittar and smilingly tipping .simplicity of his early days. Dylan's pro­analyze The Beatles, and then we foundhis hat to his anxious army in hayseed gression, if it has been anything, has been the past, but the effect is largely elec­out that we could only enjoy it. Finallyfashion. And the world of music awaits lincar. The music of Dylan's newest Ironic. He has not, despite the conjecture Dylan has given us the chance to leavethe starting gun sending them into new album may be very like that of his first of Time, raised his voice an octave; but he our reason hehind completely and merelytrends until the next word from head­on the surface, to external appearances. has tapered and smoothed his singing and (merely!) to enjoy.

quarters. Hut Nashville Skyline will not But a man may make love as a man in a dose of reverb has made the difference, fit so readily into the usual pattern of very much the same way that he made a difference which is perfect for his new In his rather out-of-character liner, Dylan alhums. Dylan cannot be hilled as a love as a boy, but all the loves in between music. The lyrics on all the songs are Johnny Cash writes: trend set tcr this lime; instead he has make the difference. If one returns home incredibly earthy and benignly simple. There arc those joined in a movement that he himself after traveling the world, home will mean Gone is stream of consciousness surreal­Who arc beings complete unto helped start; he ha~ affirmed it, and he something much different than it did ism of his "dream" songs, gone is the themselves will give it the momentum that only when he left. Music for music's sake, sociological imagery of his message songs; Whole, undaunted,-a source Dylan ~:an give. music without pretentions, pure music: here is the concrete lyric of "Don't Think As leaves of grass, as stars, 
The revival of the country in rock has that's maybe what the Beatles meant Twice," reinforced with all the myth and As mountains, alike, alike, hecn gaining speed for the last year. It when they said, unpretentiously, "Why the selfless confidence of the Dylan that alike ... was anticipated hy groups like Buffalo don't we do it in the road?" The Beatles is today: Springfield and the Younghloods, and and Dylan arc beyond money and beyond The song titles alone are sufficient to tell He should know better than to try to put Dylan (as usual co-seminal with the criticism, where we'd all like to be, so we that this is a bona fide country album: "I Dylan down on paper; so should Time; so Byrds) spurred it with John Wesley could do it in the road, too. And Dylan Threw It All Away," "Tell Me That Itt should I. But maybe some people will 
/larding. And times have appropriately has reached that finally and ultimately: Isn't True," "To Be Alone With You," listen to Nashville Skyline and listen to changed; from the occasional leaks of from folk music to social commentary to "Peggy Day," "Country Pie," etc. Dylan put himself down on paper. country on occasional Beatles' alhurns 
complex poetry to John Wesley Harding p • • h C' k h and the Lovin' Spoonful on the fringe, we to country music, earth music, road errI n5 hIg h I ig t I 0 1 5 0 w 
--~~ .~:est~r~~yEa ~~dL~~e out to wonder
J McKenzie, Mike Kelly an.d others. 
' _ <_tnd caught a dragonfly inside a jar. Heading the bill, so to speak, will be a 
• , Fearful when the skies were full of thunder n urn be r of professional and semi­and tearful at the falling of a star." professional groups as well as the cream of campus talent. 
Folk music is probably the most hu­Mr. and Mrs. Garvey, a husband-and­man form of music, reflecting not so wife team from Colorado, arc noted for much the dreams and aspirations of man their gentle mixturc of contemporary as the reality of daily life; the sadness and folk with traditional Western. They write joy, the wonder and mystery of exis­and sing their own songs and the songs tence. they sing speak of love and ghost towns 
This year has seen much activity on the and working the mines, or about people folk scene at. Notre Dame with several who have done them wrong or have done folk-oriented coffeehouses flourishing them right. Their Epic record album, and the three-part Folk Festival that has which was produced by Bob Johnston, run here second semester. Part One was a who produces Bob Dylan's albums, has general folk night at the Student Center received much critical praise. As featuring campus talent. Part Two was an 1onathan Moore says, "Mr. and Mrs. 
have gone to whole albums of country by music. For Bob Dylan, "Girl from the evening of Bob Dylan at the SMC Coffee­Garvey are human beings and people in Molly Grape, the Byrds, Buffalo Spring­North Country," 1969, must be a very shop. Both shows played to overflow their own right who also sing and write field and others, revivals of interest in different song than "Girl from the North crowds and have served to heighten the and if it were not for the ignorance of Johnny Cash, Flatt and Scruggs, and Country," 1965, for he has learned much, folk music consciousness on the Notre agents and managers would by now be a authentic down-home music even on the loved much, sung much since. Dame and St. Mary's campuses and the household word. Only angels sound and last Rolling Stones' album. But the What will make Nashville Skyline natural conclusion of the interest is Part sing better." country movement will be wide out in special and important is that it carries Three: the Folk Festival at Stepan Cent­Of special interest to the Notre Dame 
the open soon, for with Nash ville Skyline, through what "I'll Be Your Baby er. and St. Mary's campuses will be one of Dylan has not only seen that it was good, Tonight" and "John Wesley Harding" The Folk Festival will take place next the rare appearances of Chuck Perrin and he has carried it to the ultimate (right began on the last album, the return of Tuesday and Wednesday (April 22 and his sister Mary. Despite the high quality back to Nashville whence it came), and of modern music to Nashville, where rock 23) with an afternoon session beginning of their recently released album, Chuck course Joan Baez is right around the and roll began with Carl Perkins, Elvis at 2:30 pm at an evening session begin­and Mary are able to sing together only corner with a new country album. Presley, Jerry Lee Lewis, and Johnny ning at 7:30pm both days. Each session' infrequently and their performance pro­
Trends arc nice, but what matters more Cash on "yellow SUN records." And, as will feature a completely different show mises to be one of the highlights of the is what Nashville Skyline means to Bob though it were expected, Johnny Cash and a ticket for all four sessions will be festival. The Perrins, like the Garveys, Dylan, for Dylan is his own most impor­sings with Dylan on "Girl of the North on sale in the Dining Halls for $1.50. Part write much of their own material and tant audience. Time was right there cap­Country," the opening cut, putting the Three of the Folk Festival is being pre­tend towards the soft, urban folk. 
sulizing when the album was released, and stamp of official approval on the down sented by an independent group of stu Other guests will be Dorian, a young we might go to Time for the answer, home Dylan. dents, including Chuck Perrin, John singer very much in the contemporary mightn't we? Time speaks: "The album Dylan's singing on the album is obtru­Fonseca, Rich Meehan, Tom Connolly, bag from Los Angelas, and the Ginther suggests that Dylan seems to be trying to sively different from the droning wail of Chris Ramming, Kathy Grady, Lou Sisters from Chicago. 


FRIDAY, APRIL 18,1969
PAGEG 
Fellini's 
Life is too short for games. Would
White Sheik 
~a~ t~hc~r~e;j~~~ds~~~~sk!~~ yh~~n~
8:00 To-nite 
strong sense of human values. Am 20, student. Mary; 433 West; Oregon
Carroll Hall SMC 
State; Corvallis, Oregon; 97332 
Admission $1.00 
Committee for the Study and Practice of the Non-Violent Resolution of Human Conflict 
Presents 



GORDON C. ZAHN 
Author, Professor of Sociology, Univ. of Mass., Chairman American PAX Association 
Speaking on 

The Christian, His Conscience and His Violence 
Sunday, April 30 Law Auditorium 7:00p.m. 



Bartell named Assoc•·ate Director 
The Reverend Ernest Bartell, on research, and from this re­chair the University's committee 
C.S.C., chairman of the depart­search comes projects in which on inter-disciplinary studies, ac­
ment of economics, has been students can participate. cording to Rev. Theodore· M. 
appointed associate director of "We don't teach classes in the Hesburgh, C.S.C., who made the 
the Center for the Study of Man center, but do provide an oppor­announcement. 
in Contemporary Society at the tunity for students to pursue in The 37-year-old Holy Cross 
University. contemporary society," said Bar­priest holds a master's degree 
Upon his appointment, Father tell. from the University of Chicago,
Father Bartell gives a great

Bartell had this to say about the and his doctorate in economics deal of credit for the success of
center: "It is our hope that the from Princeton University. His the center to Dr. George N.
center will be instrumental in research interests include the 
Schuster, Center director.

helping to develop both educa­economics of the Catholic 
tional and research programs in "Without his vision and adminis­school system and the economic 
poverty and urban affairs in trative help, we could never have development of underdeveloped 
which the students will have a gotten involved in the various areas, especially Latin America. 
part." programs we now have ... and I His book, "Costs and Benefits of 
The purpose of the program plan to continue his initiative Catholic Elementary and Se­
will remain what it has been, to and effort," Father Bartell ex­condary Schools", has been pub­
insure Notre Dame's place in the plained. lished by the Notre Dame Press. 
significant research in the social The post of associate director Father Bartell was named 
sciences and humanities. The of the Center is a newly created chairman of the economics de­
main emphasis of the center is position. Father Bartell will also partment last February. 
FEATURE -Times:



GRANADA 
1:15-3:15-5:15 

They hunted each other as enemies... they tormented each other as savages... they faced each other as men! 
LEE 

IN1HE PACifiC 
SCREENPLAY BY 

LALO SCHIFRIN ·ALEXANDER JACOBS ·ERIC BERCOVICI ·REUBEN BERCOVITCH 
EXECUTIVE PRODUCERS PRODUCED BY DIRECTED BY 
HENRY G. SAPERSTEIN ·SELIG J. SELIGMAN ·REUBEN BERCOVITCH ·JOHN BOORMAN 
~VISIOO •TECHNICOI.OR 
G

*S£LMuR PICTuRES CORP •S ANOTHER SIJBS•D•ARv or o•suueuno ev CIN(RAwa Ruus•Nc. cofiiPOA.t.no.. @] Suggesled tor GENERAL aud•ences AM( RICAN BROAOCAS TINC. COMPANI( S IN( 

Still Sells Eurbpe's Finest Automobiles 

see Jaguar George at: 

PEPPER'S IMPORTED CARS 
31 OS W. Sample Street 
South Bend, Indiana 46619 
phone 289-7788 

Special price, for students on the 
poverty program, as most of us are. 
"... A rarity, believability. Very refreshing in an era offeedback BS" -John Carpenter, LA F~ee Press 
..•There's been a lot of nice sound spawned from Dylan's 
association with those of the Big Pink, otherwise known as 
the "Woodstock" school. But have you heard a new album 
called "Mr. and Mrs. Garvey?" It has Charles McCoy and Ken 
Buttrey (of "John Wesley Harding" fame), and was produced 
by Bob Johnston, who brought us the last three Dylan disks. 
The Barveys (Pat and Victoria), wrote everything on it. 
Their sound Is funky, a sort of country & western religious 
thing, with everything from Elizabethan folk music to the Big 
Band thrown in for good measure. McCoy and Buttrey get a 
chance to do some of the things they'd probably like to have 
done with Dylan (dig McCoy's melodic harmonica lead on 
"Orange Nickelodeon," for example). 
"Our songs are our biography," says the back cover. "They 
reflect us, our attitudes, and the things around us." Sorta. 
But filtered through Dylan's surreal Imagery and laid down 
with just as much Irony and sarcasm. Anybody who thinks 
Ray Stevens' "Mr. Businessman" Is good social criticism 
ought to hear the Garveys' "A Millionaire with a Jazz 
Playing." Where the former hits you like a sledge hammer, 
the latter sneaks up on you, subtle like. 
Like Big Pink, this Is a very American album. It celebrates 
a nostlgic reverence for bygone days, for ancient airs and 
dances, square dance jigging, jazz band playing. Tommy 
Jackson's violin at the start of "Fifi O'Toole" reminds me of 
Texas. And it proves once and for all that Country and 
Western is White Man's Soul. 
"Pick the Weeds" is probably the best grass song since 
"Rainy Day Women." And it makes it without the sopho­
moric puns, the coy In-jokes of an "Acapulco Gold" or a 
"Mr. Farmer." AND, it remains entirely within the strain of 
music, within the idion which ties the compositions together: 
There are some unbelievable musical things on the album: 
Buttrey's drumming throughout, Jackson's violin, McCoy's 
harmonica, and the piano work of Craig Doerge, who turns 
his instrument into a marimba for a Latin section of "Bon 
Voyage Mrs. Tishhauser," which just has to be the funkiest 
song ever written. It's on Epic (BN 26403). 
JIM MARTIN Los Angeles OPEN CITY 
SEE MR. & MRS. GARVEY and 35 other Folk Acts at the 


COLLEGIATE FOLK FESTIVAL 

TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY 
4 SESSIONS AFTERNOONS at 2:30 EVENINGS at 7:30 
IN STEPAN CENTER 
Patron Tickets Good For All 4 Sessions $1.50 ON SALE IN DlNlNG HALLS 
PAGE 7

FRIDAY, APRIL 18,1969 THE OBSERVER 
·~----------------------------------~~~; 
Engineering and Science at IBM 


"The interdisciplinary environment keeps you technologically hot:' 
"Working in data processing today pretty much  
means you work in a broad spectrum of tech­ 
nologies," says Nick Donofrio.  
An Associate Engineer at IBM, Nick is a  
1967 graduate in Electrical Engineering.  
He's using his technical background  
to design circuits for computer  
memory systems.  
"Circuit design used to be a narrow  
job," he says. "Today it can take you  
into the front yard of half a dozen  
different fields. In my job, for example, I work with systems design engineers,  Js'.;:,,,  
chemists, physicists, metallurgists,  
and programmers."  ·:0\\.  
Nick describes a hypothetical case  
history: "A memory systems man ,/comes to me with memory circuit  
requirements. Before I can start  
designing the circuit, I go to see a  
physicist. He helps me select an  
appropriate technology for the  
monolithic circuit.  
"As the design develops, I work with a  
test group and also check back with the  
systems and semiconductor people to make  
sure I'm on the right track."  
Keeping up  
The interdisciplinary environment at IBM helps  
you keep up to date technologically. As Nick  
puts it, "You're constantly exposed to what's  
happening in other fields."  
IBM needs technical graduates to work in  
research, design and development, manufactur­ 
ing, product test, field engineering, and space  
and defense projects. We also need technical  
people in programming and marketing.  
Check with your placement office  
If you're interested in engineering and  
science at IBM, ask your placement office  
for more information.  
An Equal Opportunity Employer  





IBM~ 
PAGE 8 
THE OBSERUER. 


Netmen lose to rain, Toledo 
a rising wind, saw Toledo win enough trouble winning tennis retreated to the Athletic and five of six singles contests and all matches outdoors this season. Convocation Center's North three of the doubles. Approx­imately two-thirds of the meet 
Coach Tom Fallon has had South Bend, Fallon's netmen 
Yesterday, he lost indoors. Dome where they were defeated Prompted by one of the several by Toledo 8-1. 

was held indoors. Notre Dame's no. 1 singlesthunderstorms which visited The match, begun outdoors in 
r player, Bernie Le Sage, was de­feated 7-5, 6-1 in the opening match and the visitors won un­hindered until the final singles confrontation. Greg Murray, a sophomore from Short Hills, N.J., won his no. 6 singles con­test 3-6, 6-2, 6-1 for Notre Dame's only points. The Irish failed to win a set in either singles or doubles, outside of Murray's performance. 
1.) Ducey (T) d. LeSage (ND) 7-5,6-1. 2.) Swartz (T) d. Reilly (ND) 6-0, 6-l. · 3.) Brown (T) d. O'Malley . · (ND) 9-7, 6~1. . . · 4.) Morton (T) d. Faught (ND) 6-4, 6-1. · 5.) Nagy (T) d. Whiting (ND) 
).
' ' 6-0, 6-3. twlkfl·tm111 players were claimed 6.) Murray (ND) d. Engel-by the American Basketball Association in the &layer haupt (T) 3-6, 6-2, 6-l.
1.) Ducey-Swartz (T) d.
h

drda~t. 6'p-S" forwh~ld B wBasbseWhle<.;tted y t e 3, 6_0_
6,ob7 ~nzetn LeSage-Reilly (ND) 6_ 
.. 1n 1ana acers, w 1 e -cen er o 1 more was 2 ) B . -M t n (T) d chosen by the Minnesota Pipers. Indiana also selected F · ht Frot··(N~) ~ 7 6-3 · Bill Keller of Purdue and Bill DeHeer of Indiana. The aug) -N:.. eyE lh -t' (T.) d
k H G.lli 3. agy-nge aup .
Kentucky CoIones1 went for B01.1erma er erm 1 am. Whifn -O'Malle (ND) 6-l 6_4_ 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll.t.•••••••~.~lllilllllllll 
''~'\ -~ 


t:' the IRISH EYE
::;.> 
. , , , By Mike Pavlin, sports editor 
/

........................................................................................................ 
Another season 
Emerging f r o rn v a c a t i o n i n Dupont-on-the-Delaware, I present my 1969 baseball predictions. Although the season is well underway, I felt it necessary to provide good controversy, in the 0 B SERVER tradition. After all, what is an editor without hate mail? 
These standings are based mostly on my own prejudices. If I'm still around this October, maybe I'll run a report of my failure--if someone else doesn't do it for me. 
Anyway, for what it's ·worth AMERICAN--EAST 
BALTIMORE--It seem so be a consensus among us professional prognosticators that the Tigers will not make it this year. The Birds have strengthened their pitching. with Mike Cuellar. Boog and the Robinson boys will help with plenty of round-trippers. 
DETROIT--The difference in the finish might 
be how close Denny McClain gets to 30 wins. The 
Tigers' big plus in their seige gun attack with Cash, 
Kaline, Northrup, and Brown. 
NEW YORK--Comeback City, last to 9th to 
5th" to ? Good pitching and lots of speed on the 
bases for the Yanks. Mickey is gone and can't be 
replaced, but keep your eyes on Bobby Murcer. 
BOSTON--There is no doubt about Beantciwn 
hitting. Tony C can see, and Yaz and Hippie 
Harrelson can hit. Can Jean Claude Lon borg and 
Jose Santiago come through from the mound? 
WASHINGTON--Ted Williams as manager 
ought to be worth a ticket out of the basement. 
Frank Howard will have to belt many homers to 
make up for the non-existent Senator pitching. 
CLEVELAND--The question every year is 
whether enough fans will show up to keep the 
franchise on the shores of Lake Erie. The Indians 
have good throwers but no bats. 
AMERICAN--WEST 
OAKLAND--It hurts somehow to put Finley 
first, but this division is really hurting. The A's 
have fine young pitching and a trio of belters from 
Arizona State. Charley may stay in Oakland for 
awhile. 
CHICAGO--It's fun every year to see whether 
pitcher Gary Peters will have the highest batting 
average on the squad. This year, however he'll have 
competition from rookie Carlos May. Thank 
goodness sanity has returned to the Windy City in 
the form of manager AI Lopez. 
MINNESOTA--Killebrew and his mates like 
th~ shor~ ho~e fences, and Billy Martin will keep 
thmgs JUmpmg, but he had better find some 
pitching. 
CALIFORNIA--The Angels don't have much 

of anything, except Jim Fregosi and old men (Wilhelm and Fisher) in the bulloen. Look out behind you, Bill Rigney! KANSAS CITY--SEATTLE--You get to pick your own here. I guess I'll go with the Royals 
NATIONAL--EAST 
ST. LOUIS --The Cards are one of the things that make life easier. Now they have Pinson and Torre. With his amount of pitching and hitting, Red Schoendienst could probably split his team and win both divisions. 
CHICAGO--Pity poor Leo! He's got a fine team for the third straight year and no place to go. The ~st off-season move would have been a westware one--away from St. Louis. 
PITTSBURGH--A revival for the Steel City, mostly because the rest of the league isn't anything special. Alou pursues Rose for the batting title and Bob Moose (the Export, Pa. "Hummer" as he is called) looks good on the mound. 
NEW YORK--The Mets can't help finishing 
the highest in their history with only six teams in a 
division. They have a staff full of young pitching 
to keep them out of the cellar. 
MONTREAL--This pick is based on hitting--Expo pitching is a myth. Staub, Bateman, Laboy, and Jones should be enough to win some I0-9 games. 
PHILADELPHIA--Stay tuned fans. Will this 
be the year that Rich Allen goes instead of the 
manager? Forget the Phils, except for rookie Don 
Money. 

NATIONAL--WEST 
CINCINNATI--This section looks like a 
dog-fight. With Rose and Bench, the Reds are the 
pick, but the pitching had better recover from last 
year. 

SAN FRANCISCO--Another year as 
runner-up for the Giants. Willie and Juan are there 
but what else is new? The rest of the team lacks' 
balance. 

ATLANTA--If there is a dark horse, Georgia 
is the stable. There are lots of young pitchers and a 
truck full of people (like Aaron and Cepeda) to hit 
balls out of sight for them. 
LOS ANGELES--The trouble with the 
Dodgers is that their line-up is full of rookies 
with names like Grabarkewitz and Sizemore. Do~ 
Drysdale has a big load to carry. 
SAN DIEGO--The battle for fifth may have 
already been decided--the Padres opened up with 
a three-game sweep of Houston. It's not that 
Diego is goo, but.. .. 
HOUSTON--... The Astros are terrible. There is 
no pi.tching or hitting in Domeland. Judge 
Hofhemz, buy yourself a froP~ office that knows 
how to trade. 
FRIDAY. APRIL 18,1969 

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUII~ 




sports parad8 
By Milt Richman, UPI sports columnist 

The passing of lockers 
NEW YORK (UPI) -Baseball lockers are like family heirlooms. 
They're not much to look at. 

Generally, $25 cash will buy everything in them on a good day, yet their owners take uncommon pride about who inherits them after they're gone. 
The clubhouse men assign all the lockers and some still save those nearest the shower room for the biggest tippers so they won't have to talk so far. 
Pete Sheehy doesn't operate that way. He's been with the New York Yankees since Babe Ruth's day and there aren't any better clubhouse men around. The only tools he ever uses are experience, instinct and good common sense. 
He has seen the lockers handed down from one generation to the next and they always were handed down under his supervision. 
There was the case of Joe DiMaggio and Billy Martin, for example. 
Billy liked to pal around with Joe when they both were with the Yankees and when it came time for DiMag to retire, Martin asked him whether he could have his locker. DiMaggio said sure; Martin told Sheehy what Joe had said, and Sheehy said it was perfectly okay with him, too. 
Martin couldn't be happier. He had hit the jackpot. Not only could he have the locker previously used by his idol, but it also was situated right next to the one being used by his best friend, Mickey 
Mantle. 
But then Martin was traded by the Yankees and Mantle moved into Joe D's old locker, and when Mickey retired this spring the natural question was who would inherit it from him. 
Sheehy asked Mantle whom he thought it should be and Mickc!y said he didn't know whereupon the Yankees' clubhouse man said, "what about Bobby Murcer? "and Mantle replied, "he was the one I was thinking of." 
Bobby Murcer, 22, and recently retuned from the Army, couldn't believe it when Sheehy told him he was getting Mantle's old locker this spring. Murcer had to ask Mickey himself in Fort Lauderdale . 
"Is it true you want me to have your locker? " Murcer asked Mantle, with whom he ·played briefly before going into service on March 7, 1967. 
"That's right," said Mickey. "I want you to have it." 
Murcer didn't know what to say. He stammered his thanks and added: "I hope I can do one-quarter as well as you did, Mickey." If you know Mickey Mantle, then you know talk like that makes 
him turn pink all over, and if you've seen Bobby Murcer, you also know he's the closest the Yankees are going to come to another Mantle. For awhile, anyway. 
The one thing Murcer and Mantle have in common is the state 
they come from. Bobby was born in Oklahoma City which makes 
him "big city" alongside Commerce, the town where Mickey was 
born. 
Murcer can run but doesn't have Mantle's power. Then again, who 
does? 
There was nothing wrong with the way Murcer operated in the 
Yanks' home opener against the Senators Tuesday, though. He 
celebrated his first game at Yankee Stadium since leaving for the 
Army by driving in four runs with a homer, double and a single 
which merely upped his batting average to .439 and his RBI total to 
I0. 
Before he left for service, Murcer played shortstop for the Yanks 
and wore No. 17 on his back. Now he's playing third base and 
wearing No. I and a story goes with that, too. 
"Bobby Richardson and I were kinda close," Murcer says. "Before I left the club he asked me if I would like to wear his uniform when I came back and I said I'd be proud to." 
Richardson talked to Murcer about that in 1966 and the uniform 
was kept in mothballs one entire year while the Yankees' new third 
baseman was in the Army at Port Huachuca, Ariz. . 
There aren't many ballplayers they save a locker AND a uniform for, but Mantle and Richardson feel Murcer is sort of special. If Murcer turns out the way they figure he will, some kid will hope to inherit his locker or uniform some day. 


Punchless Irish lose 
Notre Dame continued its couldn't find the plate. He poor showing with the bat walked three, besides giving up Tuesday and absorbed a 7-l Gieselman's hit, and wild­pounding from the Michigan pitched John Rogers home with Wolverines. the only ND run. The third 
Michigan used ·three sopho­soph, John Ritter, managed 'to more pitchers, and the first one, put out the Irish fire. Du Lac lefty Jim Burton, struck out the had a bases loaded threat going first six Irish bat[ers on just 22 against him in the sixth, but Phil pitches. He fanned nine in a four Krill was picked off second and 
inning hitless workout. this left Lucke caught in a trap 
:Sophomore No. 2, Dan Fife, to end the inning. 




