
exists. Warning shots would not be allowed. 
Hunter-Davey Present Bill;
"Let there be no mistake," said council President John Hechinger. "This is not a balm for criminals. The officer may shoot to kill." The new regulations, approved 9-0 by the council, revised an 
earlier rule restricting the police usc of firearms unless an officer or citizen was attacked with "deadly force." 
~h~s~.~~~. w~a~fi..~!E~!nren~ead ing
Mayor Walter E. Washington vetoed the earlier measure Dec. 28 through the first reading of the ld th t th . . Student Umon Pres1dent (or because he felt the term "deadly force" was too vague. The new l-It nter-Davey constitutional ;to~ ;s~r~ ; .; 1 ~com 1 ~J whomever he designated). wording, worked out in conjunction with the mayor's staff, was ar1endment bill dealing with the b u beln t 0 Y . rtesi en wotuh t A committee, established
' e a e o appom a person a . .
expected to meet with Washington's approval. operations of Student Union h ld d .tl f~ t' ear her 111 the year, recommended The new ruling also allows policemen to fire at or from a moving last night A few minor change~ . e t co~ f be~1 WI ~dt de~ IV:hy1 that Student Union be allowed vehicle under the "death or serious bodil~ injury" provision. were mad~ in the reading of the msl eat. 0 emfg stah e ty . e to run the trip with the 
se ec Ion o e ou gomg . . . 
bill by its proponent, Stud tU. B, d shpulahon that free tnps be
Nixon Supports Surcharge Extension PI .11. . h d en mon oar . 1. . d Th .
Breen-11 Ips Senator Ric ar The second proposal would e Immate . e tnps were Hunter. However, the main make the Student Union Board included in the planningKEY BISCAYNE, Fla. (UPI) President-elect Richard M. Nixon provisions of the bill, dealing of Directors the formulators of following precedents set byyesterday night supported President Johnson's call for extension of with the_ subordination of Union Policy, with the previous trips and socialthe I 0 per cent income tax surcharge until "the war, the budget Student Umon to the Senate and implication that the Senate functions sponsored by theoutlook and economic conditions" allow it to be dropped. 
Stu~ent Body President, would supervise the policy Union.
In a brief statement made public simultaneously with Johnson's remamedunchanged. through its frequent The Senate ignored theState of the Union address, Nixon said: The bill will coi?e u~ for examination. Originally the committee's recommendation"It remains my conviction that the surcharge should end as soon debat~ and final cons_IderatiOn at Hunter-Davey Bill provided that and voted to allow the Jerseyas requirements for the war, the budget outlook and economic a _special Senate meetmg Monday the policy be formulated by the Club to sponsor the trip. Theconditions will permit. 
mgh_t at 7:00. There ~as a Student Body President. Senate's decision was cast into"It is my understanding that President Johnson shares this same motion from the floor to d1scuss doubt by a legal technicality. Inview. 
the bill last night with the In other action, the Senate order to be eligible for club rates"llowever, until the new administration and the Congress can knowledge that no action could tried to arbitrate a dispute from the airlines, a club mustascertain that the facts we face justify permitting the surtax to be taken until Monday, but the between Student Union and the allow only members of the clubexpire or be reduced, I will support the President's suggestion that motion was defeated, mainly Jersey Club over sponsorship of to participate. In the past,the surcharge be continued. 
through the action of Hunter. the student trip to Europe. Committee Chairman John Rank Hunter, contended that he had Student Union normally stated that this rule had been
Nudear Carrier Blaze Kills Thirteen 
not had a chance to prepare a hand I e s aII student trips. ignored by some companies. PEARL HARBOR (UPI) -Fire and explosions erupted yesterday rationale for the altered bill However, last spring, Jersey Club Because of the dispute, the on the nuclear aircraft carrier USS Enterprise, the world's largest because he had been in constant President Herbert Moore got committee will reconvene ami warship. The Navy reported 13 killed and 85 to 100 injured. consultation about it since it was writ ten permission from investigate this rule. If it cannot An undetermined number of sailors were missing. made available Monday evening. Vice-President for Student be waived, the committee will The Navy said the carrier's nuclear reactor was not involved in the The two most important Affairs Rev. Charles probably recommend that the tragedy. provisions of the bill deal with McCarragher to sponsor the trip. Union again be designated to 
The blaze broke out as the "Big E" was on maneuvers 75 miles Article IV of the Constitution. Moore also received verbal sponsor the trip. southwest of Hawaii in preparation for deployment to Vietnam for They are: approval from Transportation S t u d en t Government the fourth time. I) The Director of the Commissioner Tim Collins. But Treasurer Richard Roderick in 
The fire, followed by about a dozen explosions, burned on the Student Union shall be he did not receive specific his financial report revealed that flight and hangar decks. Cause of the blaze and extent of damage appointed by the Student Body written permission from Student Student Government has a was not immediately known. President elected in the spring of Services Commissioner Allan deficit of approximately $5,000. 
that year with the consent of the Knappenberger. The deficit comes mainly from

Mother Deprives Brandeis of Protestor 
Senate in a period not to exceed This fall, Knappenberger losses incurred by the Social 
WALTHAM, Mass. (UPI)-Sixty-five Negroes protesting racist two weeks after the date of planned and advertised for a Commission with the student policies at Brandeis University by seizing the communications center inauguration. Student Union trip to Europe, trip to the Michigan State lost one of their members 'ycstenlay when his mother took him home. 2) The Student Union Board ignorant of the verbal agreement football game and the Harry 
The unidentified mother, armed with an umbrella, approached of Directors shall with the between Collins and Moore. The Belafonte and Lou Rawls Ford Hall and tried to get in to take her son home. The black consent of the Student Senate Union spent $325 of the money concerts. Several senators students refused her entry. formulate the administrative budgeted last spring to promote wanted a specific breakdown of 
She took down several signs on the building and tried to climb in policy of the Student Union. the trip. The Union trip, as the Social Commission's through a first floor window of the building, a three story red brick The Student Union Director planned, would have cost $20 financial status. Social structure with classrooms, the main switch board and a $20,000 shall execute policy of the more than the Jersey Club trip. C o m missioner Louis computer. Student Union and shall report The Union trip, however, Lanwermeyer agreed to present 
The protestors finally let the woman into the building and she to the Student Senate at least included a free trip for the the material at the first Senate retrieved her son. once each month. director of the trip and the meeting of the second semester. 
THE WORLD TODAY 

"Complicated" M lsslon for Cosmonaut 
MOSCOW (UP I) A Soviet air force colonel vaulted into earth 
orbit aboard a Soyuz 4 spaceship ycstcnlay on a "complicated" 
mission that could lead to a rendezvous with another manned craft 
yet to be launched. 
The cosmonaut, Lt. Col. Vladimir A. Shatalov, 41, spoke to the 
"dear Soviet people" by national television broadcast from the cabin 
of his craft two hours after launching. lie corrected the orbit of his 
ship after it veered briefly off course and then crawled to a separate 
compartment for a night of sleep on a couch. 
But space experts in Moscow speculated that the real 
complication of the mission would be a rendezvous with either the 
Cosmos 263 satellite lauchcd Sunday or another manned ship in the 
Soyuz series that could be launched later in the week for 
experiments in manned docking and crew exchanges. 
Soviet officials described the Soyuz 4 mission only as 
"complicated and responsible." 
Space observers doubted that the Soviets would simply usc Soyuz 4 to duplicate the experiments with Soyuz 2 and 3, particularly when their space program needs a timely boost to offset the spectacular success of the United States' Apollo 8 moon voyage. 
The last three in the series of Soyuz spacecraft arc redesigned 
models of the Soyuz I, which crash landed April 24, 1967, and 
killed Cosmonaut Vladimir Komarov. 

Capital Cops Get New Shooting Rules 
WASIIINGTON (UPI) -The City Council yesterday approved new regulations under which police in the nation's capital may fire at suspects when they believe the threat of death or serious injury 
\ 


THE OBSERVER. 
Servi~ the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Community 
VOL. Ill, No. 70 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 196:_j 

Hesburgh On Demonstrations, Girls, Halls 
peaceful form of their women's residence on campus Architects' report would be
Current anti-student demonstration against Dow was next year. He reported that a 
adopted as a standard, and that
sentiment is a form of backlash, far more effective that the lie-in program was being discussed 
current plans call for 
a "reaction to extremes" against against CIA interviews. whereby a number of women approximately half of the newthe wave of unrest and disorder rooms to relieve overcrowding in
He said that more violent would come from Barat, and
on the nation's campuses, and forms of protest were perhaps from several other present facilities. "We hope tothis could be avoided if students be able to make an enormous
counterproductive since the schools, and live on the ND
were more discreet in presenting improvement," he said. "Withindisruption or the good order of campus.

their demands to their colleges a week we should have a plan

the University detracted from On the hall overcrowding,
or universities. This was the the argument of the Hesburgh said that Ellerbe ready for the entire campus." 

response of University President demonstrators.
Rev. Theodore Hesgurgh to He said that any
questions regarding campus demonstration which forced 
SL.AC Ready To Act,
disorder at his press conference those who disagreed to perform
yesterday. an inhumane act, such as
''Any social change is a 

L.egal Aid Available
stepping on a person, wasreaction to extremes," said Fr. 
lack of communication betweendisruptive and violent.
He sburgh, ''<md the current Gary Mcinerny, a member of the defense and the Chairman ofsentiment in the United States is Hesburgh said that the hardest the Student Legal Aid Commit­the Board," said Mcinerney.

part of the job of a Universitya reaction to the extreme form tee (SLAC), said yesterday that For this reason Mcinerneysome campus dissent has taken President is to build a the committee is interested in claimed that not only is Martyrecently." community. "A University helping any. student who needs on trial but also the Judicialcommunity must be composedA bill has been introduced in advice in a disciplinary problem. 
Code. Because the Judicial Codethe Indiana legislature to of groups of different The SLAC was formed under the is setting precedents, the SLACprohibit any form of campus viewpoints, young and old, black Judicial Code this year in the is interested in making sure thatdemonstration with stiff and white, rich and poor," he 
senate. 
students arc treated in a fair and penalties accompanying it. said, "and the problems are, I Mcinerny is currently de­non-discriminatory fashion.
Hesburgh commented that if think, obvious. 
fending Marty McNamara before The SLAC would like to de­passed, the law would not apply Fr. Hesburgh was a member the Judicial Board in the SLAC's fend more people who comehere, because of Notre Dame's of the Carnegie Commission, first case. Marty has been before the Judicial Board or theindependent status. which has prepared an analysis charged with impeding other stu­Honor Council. "We can take allHe added, "I wouldn't want it of American higher education dents' rights in connection with cases, not just one's like Mar· to apply here. Force is a Gestapo for the Federal government. 
the demonstration against the ty's," said Mclnerney. "Thetactic, out of place in a He said the report "really pegs CIA. McNamara went to the SLAC is a committee created toUniversity. Those who have tried the government and its aid SLAC for help because of a aid any student under investiga­to mix a University society with program, especially in the area recommendation by the SDS. In tion or accusation by any dis­police enforcement have gotten of equality of opportunity." 
the first trial, Mcinerney won a ciplinary organ or official of theonly what they deserve." On Notre Dame's abortive bid postponement until February 9. 
university."

to have Barat College move to
Hesburgh said that he did not "Before the trial, McNamara However, Mcinerney said thatSouth Bend, Hesburgh said that
foresee a repetition of the crisis had a hearing which wasn't pro­most students do not knowthe main reason that the move
at the demonstration here vided for in writing in the Judi­about the help they can receive.
could not be made was the lack
against Dow and the CIA, cial Code. It seems there are He said that anyone who needsof a buye. for their Lake Forest,
because "we have excellent many discrepancies and vague assistance or would like to knowIll. campus. 
communications here" and he passages. in the Judicial Code. 
more about the SLAC shouldHe did not entirely leave out
hoped that the demonstrators This vagueness was exemplified 
contact him at 3591 or Bob have realized that the more when in the last trial there was a
the possibility that there may be Rigney at 6875. 

YR Meeting 

The Notre Dame Young Re­publicans will hold a meeting tonight at 7:30PM in Room I27 of the Nieuwland Science Hall. 
Draft Counselling 
Draft Counselling Services, beginning today and continuing until the opening of second semester, will be available only by appointment; the regular hours in the library arc suspended. To make an appointment, call either 283-I 763 or 232-I 906. 
NASA Speaker 
At 3 p.m. today the department of mechanical engineering will sponsor Dr. 
R.G. Deisslcr, of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, who will speak on "Some Developments in Turbulence," in Room 303 Engineering Building. 
Cinema '69 There will be a Cinema '69 Documcn tary, "War Game, Night and Fog," in the Engineering Auditorium tonight at 7 and 9:30p.m. 
SMC "Hamlet" 
The St. Mary's College English Department will sponsor the film HAMLET, starring Laurence Olivier today at 1:30 
p.m. at SMC's Carroll Hall. 

STUSOC STUSOC
MARDI GRAS RAFFLE 
The top salesman in each district will receive one of the following prizes: 


2 RCA 14 in. Color Portable Sets 4 RCA 18 in. Black and White Sets 2 Four Speaker, Solid State Stereos with AM-FM Radio 
AFTER THE FIRST THREE COLLECTION NIGHTS THE LEADERS ARE: 
Dlsf.J Alumni-Dillon NO ONE OVER TWO BOOKS 
Dlsf. 2 Badin-W a1sh SorinSt. Ed's 1. Zlznewsld 16 R.lones 6 £. Dlullle 4 
• 

Dlst. 3 Cav-Zahm T. Nevins 4 C. Pavelko 3 L. PeJeau 3 
Dlsf. 4 Holy Cross Keen.Stan 

F. Swendson 5 I.Maff 3 Dlsf. 5 B-P, Farley St. Joe's I. Maller 10 T.D'Aqulca 6 L. Blazlos 5 C. Reilly 5 
Dlst. 6 Carroll Lyons, Morrissey NO ON£ OVER TWO BOOKS 

Dlsf. 7 Fisher-Pang Howard C. Ferreck 3 P. Bridenstine 3 R. Laflff 3 
There is still plenty of time to win a color television 

see your Hall Rep today for more books 
OFF-CAMPUS • DIST. 8 -CAN MAKE THEIR RETURNS TODAY AND TOMORROW AT THE OFF-CAMPUS OFFICE FROM 2-5 PM 

YAF Blasts Campus Judicial Board 
Notre Dame's chapter of Young Americans for Freedom has issued a statement blasting the Campus Judicial Board for honoring the defense motion for continuance in the trial of Marty McNamara, who is charged with infringement of rights. 
The statement has been read on WSND radio for the past two days in advertising time pur­chased by the YAF. Bob Narucki, YAF Chairman, said that the NO Young Republicans will co-sponsor the message in today's advertising. 
Narucki said that the purpose of the statement is to "more or less set a precedent. We're trying to bring out the fact that no one has taken any action on this. They cry for student responsibi­lity around here, and then no­thing is done when responsibility is needed." 
The statement reads in full: "The campus chapter of the Young Americans for Freedom 





Chris Wolfe 
Some Different Ideas 
Over the vacation I was talking to an older friend who works in 
the State Department. Joe was pretty unhappy about the deadlock 
at the Paris peace talks because he feels that there arc some pretty 
easy ways to help break it. 
"The first thing that we could do", he said, "is to try to foster 
some good will by saying something nice about the communists. 
Why not for instance, thank them for reducing the now of war 
materiel since the bombing halt?" When I pointed out that they had 
increased it considerably, he responded "that is just the simplistic 
attitude of moral superiority that is preventing progress at the talks. 
When you arc concerned with an issue as important as peace you 
don't let trifles stand in your way. We have to compliment the 
communists for their peaceful intentions just as any guy courting a 
girl would have to say that she looked good in a miniskirt-even if 
she had thighs like a sumo wrestler." 
One of the major areas of improvement, as Joe sees it, is a shuffle 
in the U.S. representatives at the talks. 
He docs want Averell Harriman to stay on as the cerimonial head, 
"because of his past diplomatic successes". (When I asked what 
those successes were, he replied "I don't know, but everyone around 
here says that he had some, so there must be a couple".) Through 
back up men though, he wants to make what he calls "a two prong 
attack on the stalemate". The attack is based on the idea that if two 
people take different approaches to the talks, one is bound to work. 
The first person is George Romney, who would have to take a 
leave of absence from the Cabinet. Joe said that Romney's 
di~omat~credcntialswcreimpres~~.andprovcditbyshowingme 
a Romney quote from his presidential campaign: "I didn't say that I 
didn't say it. I said that I didn't say that I said it. I want to make 
that very clear". If he can get the communist representatives 
thinking about some statement like that, they'll go crazy and sign 
anything! If that doesn't work, he can just pretend that he's been 
brainwashed. and is actually on their side; then they'll sign anything 
he gives them. 
The other possible representative is Curtis LeMay. Since the communists have always seemed to think that peace talks were primarily designed to make the wildest assertions and propositions possible, we could just make a deal with them. Accorditlg to the deal, the most wild, unrealistic threats and proposals would determine the winner of the talks. Then all we would have to do is sit back, and let Curtis take over. After he talked about U.S. manifest destiny for a while, he'd threaten to blow North Vietnam, (' h in a ,Russia, and anybody who gave buses to them off the face of 
the earth, and he'd walk away with first prize. 
Joe had some other good ideas for speeding up the talks. "Since 
is appalled to learn that the Campus Judiciary Board has failed to take decisive action in the case involving the unlawful November demonstration against the CIA on campus. In honoring the defense motion for contin­uance, they have negligently a­voided consideration in this vital matter, in the same manner as the Student Senate, the Student Life Council, and the Adminis­tration itself. We feel that it is an insult to the entire student body to have its rights so flippantly ignored." 
WHOLESALE SEEN BY APPOINTMENT PHONE _ 
287 1427 MISHAWAKA AVE.

2927,12 souTH BEN 
IND. 46615 
PAGE 3 


Craftsmen in Optics 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LEN~.f:S THE SHEA LAND BLDG.--132 S. MICHIGAN ST.--CEntral 2-1468 


Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.··Chlcaqo 
Delegate Card Sales 

TODAY 
12:00-1:00PM in the Huddle 
5: 30 -6: 30 PM in the Dining Halls 
Delegate card holders will be admitted to all conference functions without charge. Only delegate card holders will be admitted to films and several other functions. Sales will continue at teh abol'e times until finals. 
$2.00 ND & SMC Students $3.00 Faculty & Staff $5.00 All others 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

Acapulco for Easter 
Round trip air fare from South Bend 

-t:ight days and nights in the brand new DeGante Hotel on LaCondesa Beach Services of a tour guide and information service Bull fights, water skiing, skin diving, gotj; tennis, Jai Alai, etc. 
-Low, low Mexican prices 

$25 deposit Sign-ups on Wed. $245 total 6: 30 in the Coke Bar 
mod progre~ecms tohavcb~n madcduring~abreaks;'hc~id,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~~~~~~~ "why not build a twenty foot tall tea kettle, put the delegates inside, and bring it to a slow boil? Most of the observers arc already being brought to a slow boil anyway. To find out exactly how quickly this method would take, we can just ask the communists, whose experience at this type of think makes them experts of a sort." 
Finally, there is a very simple solution to the problem of the shape of the table. First of all, the communists are obviously right when they say that there arc more than just the good guys and bad guys (two sides): there arc four sides: the good guys and their comradely national liberators and the bad guys and their greedy capitalistic exploiters. But since South Vietnam won't agree to four sides, the solution is simply to eliminate the table altogether. The talks would be easier and a lot more fun, after all, if they were held in a playpen. 
When I pointed out to him that the seating might be a little uncomfortable he said that he was sure the delegates would make the sacrifice in lieu of a better solution. Whereupon I made my own meager contribution to the success of these historic talks by musing out loud that "maybe the student senate would let you usc its sand-box ..." Joe enthusiastically agreed with this solution, and if he can convince his Department, don't be surprised if you sec some unusual activity around LaFortune. The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 



IT'S TIME!! 
IF YOU WANT TO TEACH A FREE UNIVERSITY 
COURSE 

SEND YOUR NAME AND A RESUME to: RICK LIBOWITZ c/o STUDENT GOVERNMENT F!{EE U.: AN UNEQUAL OPPORTUNITY 

Spencor Cometh ND leers 
I I I 


I I DetroitTonight Bow, S-3 
Stellar Olympian Spencer Abramavicius up front.
I I • By GREG WINGENFELD 
Haywood leads the University of Detroit runs a freewheeling
I The Irish dropped their first
I Detroit (I0-3) against ihe Irish attack. It might be termed a
I home hockey game of the season
tonight in a 7:30 p.m. Convo pivot offense since they do a lot yesterday afternoon, taking a
contest. of cutting off a high post. They 5-3 whipping from MichiganThe 6'8" sophomore standout like to fast break on occasion. 
State's freshman team. leads the nation in rebounding, The initial du Lac goal was a
Cage Polls 

hauling down an average of 23.2 
production of the front line, Joe per game. He also ranks third in UPI Bonk scoring with assists goingscoring, behind Pete Maravich. 
to mates John Womack and 
and Calvin Murphy, hitting at a I. UCLA (35) 350 
Kevin Hoene. This marker came 32ppg clip. 2. North Carolina 278 
'-20 seconds after MSU's Bob 
The Titans broke from the 3. Santa Clara 238 Campbell had drawn first blood starting gate quickly this season, 4. Davidson 214 by knocking in a rebound. 
winning their first ten games. 5. Illinois 154 A pair of second period goals But they've run into a midseason 6. Kentucky !53 
by Jim Cordes gave NO a short­slump which has seen them drop 7. New Mexico State 121 lived, 3-2 lead. Cordes, a fresh­consecutive tilts to Minnesota 8. St. John's 
lOS man center, pulled an "Eric (85-80) and Marquette (85-71) 9. Kansas 95 Ncstcrcnko" on his second goal, on the road, and Dayton (64-62) 10. Villanova 68 following up his shot all the way 
on their home court. 11. Tulsa 24 into the net. 
As many as eight of Coach 12. New Mexico 19 But the Spartans took advan­Bob Calihan's charges figure to 13. Notre Dame IS tage of a sagging Irish defense to see the action. The tentative 14. (Tie) Wyoming 14 pepper goalie Dick Tomasoni for starting line-up consists of 14. Duquesne 14 three scores to clinch the vic­Haywood and Jerry 16. Purdue 12 tory. Coach Lefty Smith blamed Schwartzfager (6'6" senior) at 17. (Tic) Colorado II the poor third period showingthe forwards, 6'7'' junior Larry 17. St. Bonaventure I 1 
on "half-hearted fore and 
Moore at center, and Jimmy 19. (Tic) Columbia 10 back checking." 
Jackson (5' 10" sop h) teaming 19. Louisville 10 Tomasoni was virtually alone with Dwight Dunlop (6'1" jr.) in 19. Cincinnati 10 in his defense of the net. "Wethe backcourt. 
AP were going for the puck instead Moore is second in team 
I. UCLA (40) 800 of for the body," lamented scoring at 11.5 ppg, followed by 
2. North Carolina 671 Lefty, who wants to sec some Jackson (9.8) and Schwartzfager 3. Santa Oara 628 violent checking as bad as fans 
(9.5). Six foot two inch Bob ·~ ; '
4. Davidson 474 do. "We were letting them getCalihan Jr. should see some 5. Kentucky 424 into the attack zone. Against a action at guard, as should 6'5" 6. St. John's 353 poor team you can get by."
Vern De Silva and 6'4" Vito 7. New Mexico State 338 
Assistant Coach Tim McNeil Sports Card 8. Illinois 302 considered the Spartan frosh 
9. Villanova 298 "one of the best teams we'veWEDNESDAY 
10. Kansas 269 played all year."
Frosh Basketball: ND vs. Ball 
11. La Salle 225 Incidentally, the MSU team
State, 5:30p.m. 

12. Duquesne 109 was a freshman aggregation from Basketball: ND vs. Detroit, 13. Ohio State 78 an academic standpoint only.
7:30p.m. 

14. Tulsa 64 They actually averaged a yearFRIDAY 15. Marquette 60 per man age advantage over the Fencing: NO vs. Wayne State 
16. Notre Dame 34 Irish. in Detroit 
17. Northwestern 27 St. John's of Minnesota visits 
Hockey: NO vs. St. John, 7:30 26 a pair of 7:30
18. Baylor Notre Dame for SATURDAY 
19. Cincinnati 18 p.m. matches, Friday and Sat­Hockey: NO vs. St. John, 7:30 20. Colorado State 17 urday. 

'Rock Ball' Survives Despite Convo Center 
By MIKE P A VLIN wife. The smooth and superb Ken Hungerford is now a the board and in. law student. He amazed me once in practice by dropping A specialist of sorts is "Wild Bill" Keeler. Give him
The Convo is open for basketball now, but I don't 
in a series of long left-handers because his right hand the ball underneath the hoop and it will take him tenknow ifi'U ever play there. It just won't be the same as at bothered him. Then there is the mysterious Rod, a shots to hit the rim. But give him the ball when his teamthe Rock (or, as some high-brows call it, the Knute). 
sophomore transfer student from the University of San needs a point to win and a miracle happens. He willHoop at the Rock begins with a lop-sided ball dispensed Francisco. Currently ineligible for varsity competition, charge downcourt at full speed with his eyes glued to theby King Ed, and continues upstairs on the sometimes Rod averaged 17 points a game for the USF frosh. ball, leap into the grasp of three defenders, throw thedimly-lit court. 
Many at the Rock are specialists in one field or ball in the general direction of the roof, and run grinningDarwin would have been at home there. Natural 
another, the most important being that of shooting. up the court as the shot goes in, as if he had it plannedselection runs rampant as the weaker teams are Armand, besides possessing an exceptional behind-the that way. 
constantly weeded out. The best battle many times back-pass, has a high lazy lob of a shot. Teacher John The best time I can remember (which isn't very far, asteam up of talented friends
shapes up when a made sights his deadly jumper at his eyes and lines it in. Pat I'm only a soph) at the Rock took place last year around 
blows everyone off the court. Then some individual star 
has a great looking shot. As he jumps, he lays the ball 
Easter. With their season over, the frosh jocks descended will walk around and collect the best four he can find to 
back on his plam without touching it with his finger tips. upon the Rock in all their splendor. They treated thetake on the group. 
Then he breaks his wrists forward, rolling the ball of his gathered crowds to some tremendous free-lanceThere are two levels of superior players at the Rock. 
fingers and producing a highly accurate shot. basketball as well as highlights like: Sid Catlett bringing One is, of course, made up of the varsity, who appear on By far the wildest looking shot, but also one of the the ball upcourt, dribbling behind his back; Collis Jones the fringes of the season. The other level consists of a most effective, is the "sling-shot" owned by Jack missing a dunk and sitting dazed and surprised on thegroup of excellent players, many of them all staters. 
Schaefer. Out about 25 feet, Jack slides out his right floor; Tom Sinnott competing with nine mortals, playing Two of the best work at the Rock, Vince Cushing and foot and bends backward. Cradling the ball behind his a few games, then running wind sprints to complete his Joe Branciforte. Cushing played ball in the D.C. area, head, he attempts to touch it to his heel. Then he snaps workout. while Branciforte is the Joe DiMaggio of the Rock. He forward and launches a potent line drive. The sheer 
I wrote this article to mark the passing of the real will beat your. brains out quietly, fundamentally, impossibility of the shot sometimes gets Jack in trouble. Rock season. The good players will still frequent the without grandstand play. Others on his team who have not seen the effect of the floor but they will now have to wait their turn along 
Kensington, Md. has turned out some of the Rock's shotbefore may get on his back if he misses a few. Jack with the multitudes who cram the building. With scores finest. Cushing hails from there as do Tom Ryan and 
usually makes up for any misses by his excellent waiting to play, the Rock has a higher turnover than a 
John Nesline. Along with Tom McClusky and Mike Van defensive work and passing skill. drive-in rcstaruant. Winter ball at the Rock becomes Dyke, they are about the best to be found. Van Dyke is Specialists in other fields included J. Kelly "Rabbit" largely a matter of picking the right times. particularly deadly because he played as a 6'2" guard in -Guifoyle. Kelly is a rebound devotee, expert at using all high school and will kill any defender from both far 
parts of his body to remove the opposition from away and close in. 
underneath the boards. Mory is only a freshman, but is Among the other stars are Rich Christie, Phil Olson, already one of the best at driving down the lane. He has and John the Teacher. 
perfected the standard move of flying down the middle, John, who teaches somewhere in South Bend, bringing the ball up and over the defender's head, frequents the Rock at night, perhaps to escape from his keeping it at his waist, and spinning it underhanded off 
"Bad Boy" of the Irish hockey squad so far this season is captain Dean Daigler, lone senior on the team. "Deano" leads Notre Dame both in number of penalties ( 13) and in penalty minutes (26). The Irish put their 7-1-3 record on the line in four consecutive matches, beginning Friday. 





