/ 


VOL. Ill, NO. 128 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community MONDAY, MAY 5, 1969 
Co-education slated to begin 1n• fall 
by J1m Raley Regarding the initiation of the 

The University of Notre Dame fresh man coeducational pro­and St. Mary's College an­gram, Father Sheedy said, nounced Saturday that intial "Notices will be sent to the 
steps have begun which will parents of all freshmen planning eventually make the two schools to attend at both campuses to substantially coeducational with acquaint the students with the 
each other. Rev. Theodore coeducation program, giving the llesburgh, president of Notre students themselves an option of Dame, and Msgr. John McGrath, whether or not they wish to president of St. Mary's an­participate· in this program. The nounced the appointment of students that will then partici­Rev. Charles Sheedy as Special pate will be chosen randomly Assistant to the Presidents of from the group that desired to Notre Dame and St. Mary's. participate." 
Father Sheedy will have the According to Father llesburgh authority to establish both the and Msgr JYtcG;ath. Notre Dame and St. Mary's will seek to de­
prindples and the operational velop a men to women ratio ofdetails of the coeducational pro­3-1 eventually in classes ongram. This coeducational effort both campuses. To make such a
will be inaugurated in Septem­ber, 1969. 
ratio attainable, St. Mary's will expand its freshman class to
Sharing g classes in four fresh­between 450 and 500 students

man liberal arts courses will be this fall, anticipating an overall
245 freshman from each college. enrollment of I, 700 by 1971.
These classes are The Humanities Notre Dame's freshman enroll­
Seminar, World Civilization, Political Science or Government, 
ment will be maintained at its present 1,500 level. 

and Introductory Sociology. For the initial phase of the
The present co-exchange pro­Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, McKenna, vice-president Fred the board was to hold their coeducational program, students
gram, which had been confined president of the University, Dedrick, Ron Mastriana, and afternoon session. will still receive their diplomas
this year largely to junior and announced plans for future student union director Denny Throughout the entire from their own institution. How­
senior students, will be ex­forums between rnen1bers of the Clark were scheduled to meet discussion, many students voiced 
panded at both levels as well as ever, Father Sheedy said, "If a University community at last with Hesburgh and several board the opinion that the body introducing the program to the student from St. Mary's becomes Friday's student-Board of members after Friday should perform some action sophomore classes. actively involved in her academic 
Trustees meeting in the afternoon's trustee meeting. which would show the at Notre Dame, there­
"A total of 348 St. Mary's program Engineering Auditorium. This Hesburgh, however, decided to • 'conservative policy makers" fore, it would be logical that she
students arc taking wurses at meeting, which had not been open the meeting to students that they were dissatisfsfied with Notre Dame and 367 Notre would receive her degree from 
announced until early Friday and faculty members after he the board's decisions. 
Dame students are enrolled in Notre Dame rather than St. afternoon, was the result of learned of the gathering of about Off-campus commissioner Bernie Mary's."
classes at St. Mary's under the student protest to the decision 100 students on the South Ryan, McKenna, and Dedrick plan this semester. These figures While Notre Dame and St. that Friday's Board of Trustees Quad. did all they could to keep the will either double or triple next Mary's arc committed to become meeting be closed to students. The students were protesting students from any violent year," stated Father Sheedy. (continued on page 3) llesburgh stated that starting the closed board meeting, the confrontation with board 
next fall, several open forums, refusal of the board to print the members. led by student, faculty, minutes of this meeting, and the M cK!!nna stated, "Militant ad ministration, and trustee decision of board leaders to hold action at this time would be heads, will meet to discuss the meeting between the harmful to all our attempts at important issues facing the Education and Student Affairs opening the board of trustees country as well as the Committee and student meeting to delegates of the University. representatives this summer. student body and establishing a 
The plans for Friday's 5:00 The students were not dialogue between students and 
meeting between nine trustee satisfied when Dedrick told these officials." members and students had not them of Hesburgh's concession, The students then decided to been make known to the student however, and proceeded to move move their meeting into Morris 
body until about 12:45 p.m. their meeting to the lawn in Inn where they hoped to Rev. Charles Sheedy, 
CSC that afternoon. Originally front of the Center for confront members of the board,
Msgr. John McGrath 

student body president Phil Continuing Education. in which (contimted on page 3) 
ND student killed and three injured 
One Notre Dame student was Student Body Treasurer Richard examined for possible internal killed and another seriously Roderick, also a junior in injuries last night; it is expected injurl·d about five o'clock business, from Silver Spring, Md. that he will be released today. yesterday afternoon when the A doctor caring for Roderick The four students were car in which they were riding said that he suffered multiple returning from a Naval ROTC overturned just north of abrasions, but was conscious and Battalion picnic along Red Bud Buchanan, Michigan. Two others able to walk. Roderick was being Trail, which was described by a were injured in the one car Michigan State Trooper as "a acciident. 
road with several bad curves." 
Dead is Michael Rosick, a The car, a 1964 Pontiac sophomore engineering student convertible, apparently went out from Silver Spring, Md., who of control on a curve lived on campus in Farley llall. approximately one mile north of 
In critical condition is Michael Buchanan, slid momentarily Buzas, a third year business along a guardrail, and then student from Glenside, Pa. lie flipped over the rail. The car was was taken to Memorial Hospital totally demolished. in South Bend, where he is State Police said that the car under intensive care. Hospital at the time of the accident was personcll said Buzas is suffering traveling at an excessive speed. from a severe head injury Rosick's exact injuries were and facial lacerations. not immediately available, 
Lloyd Bucher, commander of the U.S.S. Pueblo, visited 

Michigan State Police at Niles pending a coroner's release. The 
the campus last Friday. He made the trip especially to 

said that the driver and owner body was taken to Memorial 
meet University President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh.

of the car was William J. Carter, Hospital in South Bend, and will 
a junior business student from be removed to a funeral home in CSC, and football coach Ara Parseghian. Los Altos, Cal. Carter was Maryland upon completion of Bucher appeared in Chicago the previous night and treated for abrasions and the coroner's report. participated in the festivities surrounding a Universal Notre 
released at Pawating Hospital in Police said that both Rosick 
Daine Night celebration. 
and Buzas were thrown from the

Niles, Michigan. 
Photographer John McDermott caught Parseghian and 

Admitted at Pawating car. It was not known whether the other two were thrown clear Bucher during the afternoon's football practice, evidently 
Hospital and described as being in fair condition is former Michael Rosick of the automobile. seriously discussing some strategic intricacy of the game. 



THE OBSERVER.

PAGE 2 MONDAY, MAY 5, 1969 
------iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiliiil 
Seventeen nominated for SLC 
Seventeen of the twenty-Dne Student Life Council nomination petitions taken by hopeful candidates Thursday night were signed and returned to the student government office last night. The deadline was II p.m. 
The candidates from the South Quad are: juniors-Larry Landry, Rich Meckel, Pete Nesson, Bob Rigney, Jerry O'Shaugnessy, Peter Kelly, 
Ed Roickle 
SLC Candidate Speaking Tonight 7:00p.m. Off Campus Office 


Kevin Smith, and Ron sophomores Guy DeSapio and Mastriana; sophomores Chris Rich Hunter. Wolfe, Mike Shaugnessy, and Two representatives will be 
Stephen Ahern. elected from the North Quad. Three SLC representatives will 0 ff-campus candidates are be elected from the South Quad. juniors Pat Barbolla and Ed 
Three of four candidates from Roickle, and senior Brian Moore. the North Quad returned their Off-campus will elect one petitions: junior Ted Jones and representative to the SLC. 
HPC hears ombudsman 
President Jim Smith of St. F.d's, newly appointed ombudsman by the McKenna adP·inistration, explained the function of his office at a HPC meeting last night in the student center amphitheater. 
He said that he was to serve as 
THE SMC ENGLISH DEPT. POETRY SERIES 
presents such noted poets as 
John Berryman Ned O'Gorman Denise Leverton 
and TONIGHT, May 5, 
JOHN BERRYMAN 
will give a recital in Carroll Hall at 8:00p.m. 
*These lectures are presented at no cost to the st1,1dent. 
"Fascinating, well balanced"-San Francisco Chronicle "Persuasive... Exciting... Excruciating beauty!" 
-The Stanford Daily (Stanford University) 
"Joyous use of imagery, color, and spontaneity. . . Do go see these films!"-The Daily Californian (UC at Berkeley) 

Student -Faculty Film Society 
presents 
Genesis I 
A_ two-hour collection of the finest 

a liason between the student body and student government by knowing whom to see and what steps to follow when dealing with certain problems. 
He  requested  the  hall  
presidents  to  serve  as  
''ombudsmen''  in  their  

respective halls and asked that they call on him when personal or hall problems arise which they themselves cannot solve. "I'll handle anything at all," Smith said. Also during the meeting, Ron M a striana said that he has received fifteen applications for An Tostal Queen. But his committee will eliminate ten girls, leaving only five finalists whose pictures will be published in the Observer" on Wednesday. Voting by the student body for the queen will then take palce that night in the dining halls. The s~lected queen will be crowned at Frcday night's beach party and will reign for the entire weekend. One of her functions will be to award trophies and ribbons to the winners of the various events.  
GENESIS 1 Syanon: you love people more better.  
Foreign Car Service and Parts... For All Makes and Models...  

IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 

·THE WORLD TODAY 
Life reports Fortas given check 

WASHINGTON ( UPI) -Life Magazine reported Sunday that Supreme Court Justice Abe Fortas accepted, then later returned, a check for $ 2,000 from a family foundation involving financiCr Louis Wolfson, now imprisoned on federal stock manipulation charges. The Justice Department said it "is aware of the contents of the article...and currently has the matter under consideration". There was no elaboration of this by a department spokesman. 
The magazine noted that Fortas had written that "there has been no impropriety or anything approaching it" in his dealings with the Wolfson Family Foundation and that the associate jsustice had abstained when the Supreme Court rejected Wolfson's .appeal for a hearing in ApriL 
Abernathy marches on hospital 

CHARLESTON, S.C. ( UPI) The Rev. Ralph D. Abernathy, fresh out of jail and vowing to open "part two in the poor people's campaign," headed up a march through Charleston Sunday by 2,000 Negroes. 
Some 800 National Guradsmen and a force of 400 state 
patrolmen were on hand for the second massed march in less than a 
week to the South Carolina Medical College Hospital in efforts to 
win collective bargaining rights for hospital workers. 

Mrs. Coretta King, widow of civil rights leader Dr. Martin Luther 
King, led a similar march to the hospital Wednesday when 
Abernathy, now president of the Southern Christian Leadership 
Conference, was in jaiL 
Senate may reject A WACS 

WASHINGTON (UPI)-The Senate Armed Services Committee, while almost certain to approve the controversial Anti ba-ballistic Missile System, is toying with the idea of rejecting another multimillion dollar program for U.S. strategic defense. 
The program is called AWACS, which stands for Airborne Warning and Control System. It would consist of large aircraft equipped with powerful radar and radios which would patrol the periphery of North America and direct advanced fighter interceptors to attacking bombers. 
The need for air defenses has been a peripheral issue around the committee ever since the missile age was inaugarated. But this year, sources say it is reaching a climax as the Pentagon prepares to select a contractor later this year to develop the AWACS. 
Eight die in Viet copter crash 

SAIGON (UPI)-Two U.S. Army helicopters collided in flight ncar Saigon Sunday, killing all eight Americans aboard the two craft in the second such disaster in three days. 
Elsewhere, U.S. Marine gunners opened fire in against North Vietnamese positions inside the supposedly neutral Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) and allied communiques listed 141 Communists killed in widely scattered fighting. 
The Two Army UHI helicopters smashed into each other at 8:30 
a.m. Sunday near Bien Hoa, 18 miles northeast of Saigon, and 
experi~ental and docu~entary~~~~~~~~~~~~A_m_e_ri_ca_n_s~po_k_e_~_m_e_n_~-~~th_e_re_wre_re_n_o_s_u_~_iv_o_~--~~~~~ 
fil~s being produced by exciting, new student fil~~akers. 
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM TUESDAY MAY 6 & THURSDAY MAY 8 
7:00 & 9:30 P.M. 
$1.00 students-$1.50 general 

ATTENTION SENIORS 
COMMONWEALTH COLLEGE BUILDER COSTS LESS! 
If you haye not turned 22 before Jan. 1, 1969, here is what you would pay for our COLLEGE BUILDER PLAN: 
10,000 Life Paid up at 65 $13.41/mo. 15,000 Life Paid up at 65 $19.56/mo. 
Included in that price you have the following benefits: 
Accidental death ..................................................... 3 times face amount Travel death ............................................................ 4 times face amount Loss of one llmb...............................................................1/z face amount Loss of two limbs ............................... face amount {waiver o.f premium) Loss of eyesight.................................. face amount {waiver of premium) 
Return of all premiums if death occurs in first 20 years of policy 
Full Military Co~erage 
COMPARE before you buy 
Deferred-Premiums 
contact: KEN EVERETT 
Plus other benefits 
287-8891 

CLASS of 1970 PRESENTS 
NEW ORLEANS FOOTBALL HOLIDAY 
1969 SENIOR TRIP 
*OCT. 23-26 *BOURBON STREET *FRENCH UUARTER *TULAND vs. N.D. 
in the SUGAR BOWL 

*COMPLETE TRANSPORTATION 
FURNISHED *EASY ACCESS TO NEW ORLEANS NIGHT-LIFE 
TOTAL PRICE: $135 DEPOSIT: $15 
TICKET SALES: THURSDAY, MAY 8 & MAY 15 in the Dining Halls. 
NOTE: There will be no sales in the fall. 
USED CARS 
See: Ed Moran (ND '69) at John's Auto Sales 
702 Mishawaka 
Phone: 255-9342 
Corner of Cedar & 
Misltawaka Ave's. 

ALSO: New Suzuki Bike. 
Driving Range 

Par 3 Golf Course Minjature Golf Course 
OPEN -DAY & NIGh 
(weather permitting) 
PLAYLAND GOLF CENTER 
1715 Lincoln Way East South Bend, Ind. Phone 288-0033 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 


THE OBSERVER 
PAGE

MONDAY, MAY 5, 1969 
"Thirtl, the forum will be presently exists at Notre Dame. (m II I iIll/cJ froIll flUIW J) Chairman of the lloard way to begin this made up of regularly constituted This coultl he the most 1.-dmund Stephan, Board communication, which Wilson
who wnc eating lund!. Upon meetings with agentlas aimed at meaningful thing we could tlo at
had been talking about, was
Secretary Paul Hellmuth, Doctor through a University forum. He
t•n tcring, however, the students serious questions which affect this time." 
Meredith Wilson, and President

were told that the board had the entire University lleshurgh statctl that it will
statetl four proposals for the
already gone hack to the CCE of the Alumni Association Eric community. The fourth proposal take time for the board to
structure of this forum, "First,
b u i ltling to reconvene their S to bright. Heshurgh's Special is that no group will have 
finally consider whether 

meeting. Assistant, (>hilip Faccenda, was the leaders will be matle up of leg-islative powers per se; but students will become members one member each of the top
Before leaving Morris Inn, also present. that group which has the most of the board or not. He felt that
organizations in the University
howerer, llesburgh told Dedrick The primary question authorization in the area being until that time, the forum will
community, such as the Student
that, in their morning session the addressed to these considered at the time, will act be the most effective way in
Body President, the Chairman of
boartl hatl tlccided to hold an representatives was "Why did as the main power. vo1cmg the opinions of the
the Board of Trustees, the open meeting between the the Board of Trust•'\Cs refuse President of the Alumni "The object of the forum's students. Education and Student Affairs both to allow students to sit in Association, President of the formation is that there must In commenting on llesburgh's Committee and student leaders on their meeting, and publish Faculty Senate, and myself. some better way of proposed forum, McKenna later this month. the printed minutes for Therefore, you will have communicating than what we stated, "It's a good idea to have This second concession ded distribution among the responsible members from each have done in the past. This will dialogue hetweem members of not appease the students. They stutlents?" of these five groups. Second, be an experimental attempt in the University community, but had come to the agreement that In answer to the question order to find a new mechanism it is also important that the
elected members from all five it was imperative that lleshurgh concerning the publication of organizations will also lead the which exists at other Universities students have power in deciding address them before 5 p.m. so minutes, Stephan stated that and is more effective than what the policies of the University."
forum. that he could relat their opinions many of the things that occurred to the hoard. The body decided, at the meeting was confidential therefore, to send a tdcgram to anti not available for release. He him through lltc scaled doors ot also st<Jtcd, however, that the ('('(·: huiiding. The telegram, cveryylhing that was important which was drawn up hy Craig anti available for release was Fenech, staled, "ISO members given to the press as soon as of the student body, who arc possible. gal hcrcd outside, request that Wilson stated that stutlents the hoard mcl'ling he recorded arc not atlmitted to take part in and put on WSN D later today, Trustees meetings because, the minutes he published, and "There isn't any way to give that an immt•diatc response to students full lever~ge in the our demands he sent out." management of the University The students moved from the <~ n d still take care of its Morris Inn to the lawn in front corporate obligations. There of the en·: building in order to isn't any way in which stutlents 
(continued from page 1) curricular activities and social
wail for the reply to the letter. can better affect their lives in life. -For example, officials of the
Before receiving this reply, front of the hoard and then to substantially coeducational with two schools will explore the
however, the gathering dissolved provide a kind of each other, the necessarily students
when most students decided to communication so that w~ can limited extent of the program feasability of having dining privileges on each other's
wait until 5 p.m. in order to talk try to understand how you live commencing in September must to lleshurgh and other board ant! what grieves you. But if you be stressed. campus, either regularly or on members. The few students who sat students with the board, two Adjustments to provide for an specified occasions. rl·mained did not receive an members with thirty-eight, the identical academic calendar, an Notre Dame officials also will answer to the letter. two members would be integrated class schedule permit­study the possibility of Notre 
powerless and you would soon ting a greater lapse of time Dame and St. Mary's students
The ten hoard members who in evening's be calling them ;uncle Toms.' between classes to provide for sitting together at athletic
took part Friday commuting between campuses, a events, particularly if the matterml!e t i ng induded lleshurgh, llcsburgh statetl that the only 
common grading system and a is voted on affirmatively by the harmonized examination students themselves. Shuttle bus schedule must be made at both service between the two nearby institutions. These and other campuses will be expanded as matters must be settled before required. Rev. John Walsh, CSC the coeducational can A "Statement of Principles" Rev. Joh
program Committee headed by be fully implemented. regarding the new developments Walsh, C.S.C., Notre Dame's Father Sheedy explained that in the relationship of Notre for Academic
Vice-President 

it was tlccidcd that it would Dame and St. Mary's was ap­Affairs, and Dr. John Detzler, benefit both institutions by ex­proved Fritlay by the Univer­executive vice president of St. ploiting what was here rather sity's Board of Trustees at its Mary's. · than going in another tlirection. regularly scheduled meeting. rather Sheedy, who served <JS The physical proximity and the The statement reflects recom­Notre Dame's liberal arts Jean historical connections between mendations for expanded co­for sixteen years and who was 
the two campuses influenced operative programs formulatetl recently n<Jmcd Dean of Theo­this decision. by the Dual Council of the two 
logical Stutlies and Institutes at In addition to the central aca­schools on April 4, 1969. The the University, will have the demic phase of the coetluca­Council, in turn, acted on executive authority for establish­
a tional effort, special efforts will year-long study of the matter ing both the principles and oper­be made to enrich extra-wnducted by a Coordinating ational details of the program. 








• 
MONDAY, MAY 5, 1969
THE OBSERfl£4
PAGE 4 

Stickmen fall after comeback 
by Don Kennedy after turning back Notre Dame's 
Cashing in early on sloppy
Observer Sports Writer 

offense, Ohio State agiain began 
Notre Dame clears, Buckeye 
1 hey say that to win the big hammering away at the · Irish
attackman Tom Sheehan (a soph 
game in any sport, a team must cage. The defense, plagued all
in his first year of lacrosse play) 
perform consistently, day by clearing problems, was
scored two quick goals on a 
capitalizing on their opponents pierced again by Sheehan, whose 
totally disorganized Irish 
errors while committing none third goal put tne Buckeyes in
defense. The only bright spot in 
themselves. The Notre Dame front 3-0. Late in the period,
the first period was the 
Lacrosse Club provided evidence working off a combination of
hard-hitting performance of 
for this rule last Saturday, as passes, OSU's top scorer,
middie Kenny Lund, whose 
they were able to mount only Skakmary, broke through to
vicious checks helped contain 
one good period of attack in make it 4-0 at the half.
the Buckeye attack. 

losing to a rugged Ohio State During the first half, the
The second stanza opened 
Buckeyes not only out-finessedteam, 6-5. 
with a quiick Irish thrust, but 
Pitching propels Kline's nine 
The Irish baseball team finally The Irish accepted a gift vic­the errors, ND used some power got their record even this past tory in the first game of the hitting by Jim Geiselman who weekend as they defeated weekend as they troun ced the had a homer and two other hits· Toledo on Friday afternoon and Rockets 16-3 with the help of 10 in five trips to the plate. then split a double header on Toledo errors. In this game Bob 
He was supported in the hitSaturday with the same Toledo Arnzen finally got back to his department by Nick Scarpelli,nine. The season record now sophomore year standards as he Tom Lux, Dick Lucke and Johnstands at 8-8. fired a nifty two-hitter. Besides Rogers who had two hits each. Everyone hit safely in the Notre Dame lineup. Arnzen was in trouble in the second inning when Toledo took a 3-1 lead but it was smooth sailing after than as N D came through with six big 
run in the next inning to help give Arnie his first victory against two defeats. Toledo third baseman Bud Cranston won the Marv Throneberry fielding award as he committed five errors in thcis single contest. 
The following day the Rockets came back to whip the Irish 8-4 and in the process handed Jim Phelps his first set­back of the season. Phelps is now 3-1. Two round trippers paved the way for Toledo as Andy Toth hit a two-run clout in the first and John Gephart hit a three-run blast in the fifth. The Irish came hack in the last inning with three runs but it was too little and far too late. 
In the nightcap Nick Furlong the Irish, but beat them at Notre as Morin drove through two 
Dame's own game-they out-hit Buckeye defensemen to score his 
them and beat t them bad. But third goal of the day. Before the 
the game was far from over... Ohioans could reorganize, Mike 
The third period began all Satarino, taking a driving pass 
Buckeye as creaseman Galvin from mid die Jim Laffey, scored 
scored for them with the Irish the fifth straight Irish goal, 
two men down. But with OSU capping a thrilling comeback down a man, attackman Bobby from a 5-0 deficit_ Morin (who leads the Mid-West But Notre Dame's Lacrosse Association club inconsistency dominated, as division in goals-per-game with a they reverted to their first-half 
2.5 average) ignited the form. With three minutes left, seemingly listless Irish attack State's Bell put the Buckeyes in with Notre Dame's first score of front to stay, scoring on a fast the game. Right away the Irish break that caught the Irish began to hit harder; taking the asleep. A great last-minute save faceoffs and pressuring Buckeye by OSU's Abeles halted the last goalie Ted Abeles, whose Irish thrust, and the game went 
brilliant play kept the score at into the books reading 6-5, 5-1 after three periods. Buckeyes. 
The fourth period was On Sunday, the JV team kept comeback city for the Irish. its undefeated string going with First it was Tommy Kress, who a 3-2 win over Defiance (Ohio) clicked on a picture pass from College in overtime. Outstanding Pete Metzger. Then Metzger set in the contest were hustling up Morin whose marker lowered defenseman Timmy Baker and the deficit to 5-3 with nine Captain Kenny Lund, who led minutes remaining in the game. the Irish B's with two goals, In less than a minute is was 5-4, including the game winner. 
Football Scrimmage 

From the results of Saturday's the injured Mike McCoy and Pat 
scrimmage, the Gold has nothing Mudron at tackle. 

pleasant to look forward to in Freshman Andy Huff turned 
next week's Blue-Gold contest. in another solid performance, 
The No. 1 Blue defense stifled scoring one touchdown on a 
the second and third string 24-yard run and setting up 
offenses in a 39--0 triumph. another with a 17-yard jaunt. 
The defensive performance in Quarterback Joe Theismann 
the scrimmage (held in the scored twice himself from short 
stadium and closed to the pub­distances and hit Ed Ziegler 
lic) was that much more encour­with a !-yard TD pass. Fullback aging Because the front four 
Jeff Zimmerman went in to were all freshmen. Walt Patulski score from three yards out, and Fred Swendsen have won 
while Brian Lewallen provided jobs at defensive end, while Mike 
the longest run of the day, a Zikas and Greg Marx replaced 
70-yard TO punt return. 
Academy Award Winner 
~':!~~~II ,.1 1'11"11 Mt... 1...-...... 
~ 

overcame Don Wieland in a tight 1-0 pitchers duel. The lone run of the ball game came in the ninth inning as soph shortstop Phil Krill opened the inning with a triple and was brought home by a timely base hit by Chuck Horan. Furlong gave up only three hits in evening his record at 1-1. The next game for the Irish is tomorrow against tough Michigan State. The game is at Cartier Field. Nick Furlong gave ND the edge in the three gam'~ Toledo series with a three-hit, 1-0 victory. Soccer Reds, Birds, Mets sweep The Irish boaters spent a pro­fitable weekend in Wisconsin, taking a pair of games from St.NATIONAL-EAST AMERICAN-EAST Norbert's College, 4-1 and 7-I. Won Lost Pet. GB Won Lost Pet. GB On Friday, freshman MaxCHI. 18 9 .667 BALT. 20 8 .714 Bunster scored three second halfPITT. 15 10 .600 2 WASH. 16 11 .593 3% PHIL. 11 11 .500 4% BOST. 14 10 .583 4 goals to break a 1-1 tic and give N.Y. 11 14 .440 6 DET. 11 13 .458 7 N D the victory. John Amato got ST. L. 10 15 .400 7 N.Y. 11 15 .423 8 the Irish even with a first half MONT. 9 15 .375 7% CLEV. 3 18 .143 13% score. Captain Tim Patton blitzed St. Norbert's on Satur­WEST WEST day with an amazing five-goalMINN. 16 7 .696 -ATL. 17 8 .680 performance, the finest in NDxOAK. 13 10 .565 3 S.F. 15 10 .600 2 K.C. 13 11 .542 3% soccer history, in the Irish romp. L.A. 15 10 .600 2 CHI. 8 11 .421 6 CIN. 11 14 .440 6 Cal. 8 13 .381 7 The hooters return home this S.D. 12 16 .429 6% xSEA. 8 14 .364 7% week to face Goshen. HOUS. 8 20 .286 tOY. x-second game not included  t~'!±~CO ZEFFIREI.U ROMEO ,s--jllJET TECHNICOLOR APARAMOUNT PICTURE ···· ~~-·--;=-~-~~~~-------------·-~-' ~;;:; _ Starts Wednesday VOTE for CURT ANDERSON & JIM MARKIEWICZ for Grand Knight & Deputy Grand Knight ND Council 1477 K. of C.  
BE A SWINGER ! and own your own Polaroid -It's easy, just pick up your own SCRIPTO Pen at the BOOKSTORE and receive a lucky number from the cashier. The Next Drawing Will Be Held May 9  
"Do your thing" -immPdi:!te openings in young publishing company for ~d space salesmen & women. Work in your city or travel the USA. Salary, commission and car expenses. Call coJJect ( 312) 726-9326 or send resume to J and J Publications, Inc., 153 North Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois 60601.  U.M.O.C. IS HERE Voting at N.D., S.M.C. Dining Halls, Today Through Thursday  




