
Hall Presidents and section leaders a1r gr1pes 

Student Body V.P. Fred Dedrick attended the meetings of both the SLC and Hall President's Council yesterday. 
•

SLC defers actton on Hesburgh's letter 
by Tom Bornholdt 
The Student Life Council 
voted down a proposed Amend­
ment to the new Judicial Code 
which would have forced them 
to write an alternative policy to 
Father Hesburgh's letter on dis­
ruptive demonstrations. 
The amendment presented by Student Body Vice-President Fred Dedrick suggested that the proposed Code be revised so that no penalty or sanction could be imposed upon a university stu· dent without a hearing. 
Father Hesburgh 's letter of last spring states that a student can be suspended and expelled on the spot if he does not cease and desist his participation in a "disruptive" demonstration. 
The proposed Code merely provides to a student, who is suspended or expelled in such a case, the right to appeal the 
action to the judicial system. 
Dedrick argued that such a proviso was contradictory to the code's own nature. It assumes that a student was guilty in making his appeal and had to prove his innocence. 
The framers of the code sug­gested that it was written merely to allow for the trial of students who broke existing laws on cam­pus. Thus, it was argued, if Father lfesburgh's dictum is valid, the code need not be revised. It was obvious that De­drick's amendment was levelled basically against the content of Father Hesburgh's letter. So, the discussion changed to debate over the validity of the letter. 
Thus Mr. Phillip Faccenda, Special Assistant to the Presi­dent, argued against Dedrick's amendment by defending Hes­burgh's letter. He stated that there was a need for the univer-


Cinema 70:new year 
The Cinema 70 film series this year is being co-sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission and the Black Maria Cinema Group. 
Explaining the organizational change yesterday, Student Union Academic Commissioner Pat Dowdall said that the change would prevent encroachments by the Communication Arts Department in the presentation of films. 
Previously, the yearly Cinema series was sponsored by the Stu­dent-Faculty Film Society which also sponsored the profitable summer series, Dowdall ex­plained. The first "encroach­ment experienced," he said, oc­curred when the Communication Arts Department took over the summer series. 
Last spring, Dowdall con­tinued, Cinema 69 scheduled Marat Sade, at "considerable ex­pense." At the same time, he said, the Communication Arts 
Department st:heduled a Horror 
Film Festival. This festival, he 
added, was also during the same 
week as the Contemporary Arts 
Festival. 
David Kahn, then director of 
Cinema 69, attempted to cancel 
the Horror Film Festival by 
seeking a ruling from the Vice 
President for Academic Affairs, 
Rev. John Walsh, C.S.C. How­
ever, Kahn did not succeed in 
cancelling the Horror Film Festi­
val. He did, however, reach a 
compromise as to the future 
scheduling of films. 
According to Dowdall, Fr. 
Naish stated last spring thaL he 
would be powerless to prevent 
future scheduling overlaps unless 
the Cinema series would becotne 
part of the Student Union. This 
condition prompted the change, 
Dowdall said. 
"According to the by-rules," 
Dowdall said, "neither the fac­
ulty nor any departments t:an 
(Continued on paKe 2) 
by Jim Graif In an effort to "find out our mandate or to determine what we are doing wrong", Student Body President Phil McKenna and members of his cabinet met last night with about fifty hall presidents and section leaders in an open gripe session. Through the meeting, McKen­na hoped to get a general idea of what is bothering students. This will give the cabinet a basis to work from when they meet later on this month in the dorms with small groups of students. The tentative plan is to have teams of Cabinet members visit the halls between Oct. 21 and Oct. 26. The first topic discussed was a proposed calendar change. Bill Locke, Academic Affairs Com­missioner, explained that the main purpose for the change, proposed by the University-Wide Curriculum Revision Committee, is to eliminate the "lame duck" session between the end of Christmas vacation and the be­ginning of semester exams. He also pointed out that a 4-1-4 
system had been proposed. This system would call for the first semester to end by Christmas. This would be followed by a one month period of independent study, and then the second se­mester which would run from February to the end of May. The system was voted down because the administration felt that it would give the students a good excuse to mis-use time. 
Locke answered a question concerning 75 minute classes by explaining that the purpose of the lengthened classes would be to eliminate Saturday classes. However, many teachers on the Revision Committee felt that 75 minutes is too long a time for students to maintain proper at­tention. 
The group also discussed the one year co-ed experimental col­lege in Holy Cross Hall. Locke said that students would be al­lowed to decide what they want to learn. When asked why the site had to be Holy Cross, Locke said that it didn't have to be there, but that the location and 

sity to be able to act quickly and effectively in emergencies. He defended Hesburgh's policy, re­fcrring to it as "the injunctive power of the presidency," which could be used as an alternative to bringing outside forces onto campus. 
Various members of the Council then spoke up sup­porting the demonstration policy. Professor Bernard Nor-ling declared that it was time the Administration got some needed "backbone" during demonstra­tions. Fr. Edgar Whelan, Direc­tor of Student Housing, sup­ported the principle of the Uni­versity's right to be able to act quickly to avert a danger to the community. 
Rich Meckle, a student mem­ber of the SLC, countered that the President could use the threat of court injunction to remove demonstrators rather than have them expelled or sus­pended. Other members of the Council noted, however, that a President might have difficulty obtaining such an injunction in the name of the University. 
Other members of the Council 
'tt f Bl I< St
The Commt ce or ac u-

dents is scheduled to meet to­
night to make the final revisions 
on their proposal for a Black 
Studies Program at Notre Dame. 
If the committee finalizes its 
proposals the program will go to 
other university agencies for ap­
proval. 
The wmmittec's plans are to include provisions for a Black Studies Department and facili­ties for the study of black cui­
ture. 
The proposal is the culmina­tion of over a year of committee work by certain members of Notre Dame's faculty and bla~:k student representatives. 
The committee hopes that the program can be in f!!ll effect stated that they wished for a thorough discussion and exami­nation of Hesburgh's letter. They felt, however, that it should not be made within the framework of amending the J u­dicial Code. Father Riehle emphasized the need to keep the Code in its present form to provide for appeal as long as Hesburgh's letter is still in effect. 
A roll call vote was taken and the measure was defeated, 14 6. With the exception of Prof. Donald Kommers, who ab­stained on the vote, stating that he thought students were raising avalid point, all the administra­tors and faculty members pre­sent at the meeting voted against the amendment. Several pre­faced their vote with a qualifier that they would be willing to discuss Hesburgh's letter at a different time. Two students, Ron Mastriana and Guy De-Sapio, joined in the vote oppo­sing the bill, stating that they would be willing to consider supporting a feasible alternative to Hesburgh's policy when and if it is presented. They saw a need 
to leave the CodP as it is. -~..--...• 
. .

the umvers1ty by next fall. The problem of finding a fulltime director for the program has delayed the committee. 
Mr. Thomas J. Musial, secre­tary of the Committee for Black Students, explained the pro­
blems of hiring a director. "We are trying to find the director with the best ba~:kground to 
fulfill the largest number of qualifications specified by the committee." 
Musial explained that at-though there was no racial divi­sion within the ~:ommittce there were dearly a variety of opinions about what kind of program should be proposed, 
and what its aims and objcdives should be. It is the diredor of structure of the hall made it an 
obvious choice. 
The group also ratscd ques­tions about the plans being made concerning coeducation. John Zimmerman, who is a member of the Coordinating Committee explained that things were moving slowly, as had been ex­pected. However, a common course schedule will be available next year. lie said the adminis­trators arc hesitant to make a full commitment at this time. The fact that St. Mary's docs not now have a chairman of its Sociology Department may pro­vide a test case. It is hoped that the departments of the two schools would consolidate to see if coedut:ation can work. 
Bernie Ryan, Off-Campus Com missioner said that those who want to move off campus should send a letter to the com­mission after Thanksgiving con­taining parental permission. lie explained that the reason some students had not been allowed to move off campus was that too many empty rooms would be left on campus. He hoped that the university would start a con­tingency fund of about $10,000 so that students who decide during the summer to move off campus would be allowed to do 
so. 

Miss Nancy Nelson Ia Notre Dame's 1969 Home­coming Queen. She was elected last night over five other candidates. 
Miss Nelson, 21, is a student at Fisher Junior College in Boston. Her es­cort will be Curly Freyre, a senior in Business Ad­
ministration. 
..••••1 

Committee for Black Studen s 0 revise proposa~s, for. new dept~
under a dtrector to be htred by the department who wtll make
th f 1 d · · 
e ma ec1s1on on these mat­ters. The Committee for Black Stu­
d 
cnts is composed of six faculty members, three white and three black, and six representatives of the black students at Notre 
D 
ame. . , 
Among ~he c_omnuttee s 

rccommcndat_10ns w1ll be plans 
for an . Arch1ve f?r Black A~ts 
and Sc1ences, wh1t:h wo_uld m-
dude the research materwls for 
study u_~dcr th_e new depart­rnent. hlms, v1deo documen­!aries, artifacts, extensive tete­
~ommunicati~ns hl~okups, a_nd library . matenals m1ght be In­cludcd m the proposals. 
Th_e comn~1t_t~e has als~ been w?rk1~~ to Initiate a bas1c stu­
(Conllllllcd on J1UKe J) 
PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1969 

Midwest Athletic Equipment Co. 
7 N~ Hill St. 232-9550 Only 7 blocks from campus • 
Converse All-Stars llockey Sticks+ Skates Adidas Track-Basketball-Soccer Shoes N.D. Jackets+ Emblems 
IMPORTANT­NEW ORLEANS TRIP 
TICKET DISTRIBUTION· 
TUESDAY; 6:00 -7:30, IN THE COKE BAR OF THE RATHSKELLER 

Dr. Russell Kirk, the author of The Conservative Mind, the most widely read and received work of political theory in this century, will speak at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame in the Memorial Library Auditorium tonight at 8:00P.M. 
The topic of Dr. Kirk's lecture will be "The American Univer­sity: A Conservative View." 
Dr. Kirk is considered to be one of the most influencial con­servative thinkers. His daily syndicated column "To the Post" appears in newspapers in every state of the Union. His page on education "from the Academy" appears fortnightly in the National Review. Dr. Kirk is now editor of the University Bookman. 
Dr. Kirk received his B.A. 
from Michigan State University, 
his Masters from Duke Universi-

Listen to a conservative view 
ty and is the only American to of a Bohemian Tory, and A hold a Doctorate of Letters de­Creature of the Twilight. In ad­gree from St. Andrew's Universi­dition his articles have appeared ty in Scotland. His many books in such diverse publications as include, The Political Principles "The New York Times", "For­of Robert A. Taft, the American tune", "Kenyon Review", "The Cause, Academic Freedom: An London Mystery Magazine", and Hssay in Definition, Confessions "Yale Review." 
Many films fill roster 
(Continued from paJ;e 1J.  
compete  moneywise  'With  stu­ 
dent government."  
Fran  Maier,  director  of  the  

Black Maria Cinema Group, is director of Cinema 70. He said that this would continue to be the administrative procedure in the future. 
Dowdall said that the profits from the film series would be split equally between the Stu­dent Union and the Black Maria Cinema Group. He added that the Black Maria Cinema Group will determine the film series of 

I've got my interview set between computer lab and econ hurry up bus I'll be late for class wonder if Alcoa's doing anything about traffic jams So when I go in I'll tell it like it is-for me and they'll tell it like it is­for them 

Change for the better with Alcoa 
November 5 
An Equal Opportunity Employer A Plans for Progress Company 

~ALCOA 
Cinema 70. 

Highlighting this year's series are The Battle of Angiers, No­vember 8, Haskell Wexler's Me­dium Cool, November 15, Ro­man Polansky's Cul de Sac, Go­dard's Weekend, Kurosava's Red Beard, and Richard Lester's How I Won the War. Dowdall said a complete listing of all films and dates will be posted within the week. 
Cinema 70 has scheduled three film festivals this year. In November there will be a show­ing of Czech films including 
Closely Watched Trains, A Re­port on the Party and the Guests, and Lemonade fail. 
The second film festival will feature a week of American films. The final festival will pre­sent a week of films by specific directors. 
Tickets for the Cinema 70 film series will go on sale this week. 
Editor: Gaetano DeSapio Publisher: Donald C. Holliday 
Night editors: John Bach Layout Design: Mary 
Morrison Headlines: Tom Law Layout: Patty Lipscomb, 
Conway Copy Staff: Jim Graif 


fDEA 
Ring of Tanzanite, a newly discovered blue gemstone, set with diamonds in platinum,> 375. 



TIFFANY&Co. 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. 
CHICAGO 

PHONE; 944-7500•ZIP: 60611 
Soles tax additional 

l!ne Observer Is published daify during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second clas5 postage 
, paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1969 
Tim MacCarry 
Notre Dame, Inc. 
.. h

G. William Dumhoff, in Who Rules America~contcn ds lhat t e ( I f. ' · ' I d' · 't' b l'l"lrlb"rs 0 1· the
co11 ro u 11 menca s ea lllg untverst tes Y 'L • American business aristocracy is more direct than with any other institution which they control . .. A governing class is a social upper 
class which owns a disproportionate amount of a country's wealth, receives a disproportionate amount of a country's income, and contributes a disproportionate number of its members to the controlling institutions and key decision-making groups of the country." 
Domhoff, and also Ferdinand Lundberg in The Rich and the SufJer-rich, give conclusive statistical evidence that such a ruling class exists in America: that one-half to one percent of the population has 
effective control over the dominant sectors of the corporate system. This class has the power and intluence to control corporate empires in the Third World; to fund or become Presidential candidates; to secure "defense" contracts; and to sit on the Boards of Trustees of the major universities. 
r:or the universities fulfill a crucial function in this system: they do the research to maintain the expanding technology on which the corporate system is based, without being taxed as private research is; 
in addition, they serve as processing plants to turn out trained managers, technicians, researchers, and bureaucrats to fill the slots in the corporate machines. llow many Notre Dame men arc engaged in the Search for Truth, or in learning how to Serve Others; how many arc simply seeking a preparation for personal achievement and advancement" 
Similarly, how many members of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees have been primarily concerned with education and research in their 11ast carccrs?Only two laymen have more education-research connections than business interests; there are also the six priests from the University Administration (although Fr. Joyce has received the Air Force's highest civilian decoration for services rendered). 
The other 34 Trustees represent the ruling class, i.e., their primary 
society. Among them they hold the offices of president, lop-level executive. or director of: 16 publications and communications corporations, including National Broadcasting Co. and the South Bend Tribune; I 7 utility and transportation corporations, including Ameri Airlines and the Pennsylvania Railroad; 
4 7 finance corporations, including the First Bank and Trust Co National Bank, World Bank, Continental Insurance Co., lnterna tiona! Finance Corp., and the First National City Bank (N.Y.); 
IOS other corporations, including the Detroit Steel Corp Motorola, Montgomery Ward, Radio Corp. of America, Chemet Corp., Rand Corp., Bendix-Westinghouse Corp., and Ingersoll Corp. 
Individual examples include Edmund Stephan, Chairman of Board of Trustees, director of five corporations and a law partner. Paul Hellmuth, the contact man in the NSA-CIA scandal, vice-president of three, and director of eight corporations, includi 
W.R. Crace & Co. Oliver Carmichael, whose daughter's weddi reception was in Stepan Center, is also a director of W.R. Grace & Co., and two others, as well as being chairman of the board of five 
PAGE 3

THE OBSERVER 

------------------------------.. 


Revision of Black Studies 
(Continued from page 1) 
dies program for black students. This would be a remedt'al pro­gram for those studet1ts who 
would have to compete academi­cally with Notre Dame students, but who are not prepared to compete. 
The new Black Studies De­par.tment would include black counsellors, and attempt to re­cruit black students and make scholarships and financial aid available.

Catlett res,·gns 
Sid Catlett tendered his resig­nation Sunday as Vice-President of the Afro-American Society. Catlett gave the reason for his resignation being that he "can't become as fully involved as he could," due to his playing bas­ketball. 
"I have an obligation to my­
self, my family and many other 
people," C<Jtlett explained. 
"I am sympathetic to the fact 
that everybody should do his 
h' t d 't h
own JUSt mg. 1 · on ave t11c 
-, (' 1 tt t t d
tunc, at e s a e . 
• M r. d p -d f
nrt co•ar1an , res1 en1 o 
-• -S · h d
I11e A1ro-"mencan octcly a 
t (' tl tt' · 
no commen on a e s restgna­
lion. 
The hiring of Mr. Seabrooks, a black counsellor in the Fresh­

man Year office was an out­growth of the work of the Com­mittee for Black Students. 
Work began on a Black Stu­dies program last fall with the appointment by Father lies-burgh of the Committee for Afro-American Students. The weekly meeting throughout the year, and must still work on the proposals for the new Black Stu­dies Department. 
The committee submits its re­vised plans to Dean Crosson, who must in turn present it to the College Council and lastly the Board of Trustees before it can go into effect. 
The next scheduled meetinggroup held weekly meetings last 

of the College Council isyear, but was unable to finalize 

October 30. 

any plans in time for the meeting of the College Council REDISCOVER last spring. Other delays in the formation 
TAP£ 

of the Black Studies Program were encountered last Spring RECORDING when some members of the com­mittee wanted to incorporate the program into a proposal for a more broadly based Ethnic Studies Program. 
A committee was formed to study this possibility, but the attempt was abortive. 
The Committee for Afro-American Students became the c0101111·ttee for Bla,·k Stttdents 
~ 

tr11·~ year. Mr. Must-a! and L'alher 
r 

r..rtlest Bartell arc the Otlly llletn­
" 
bers of the old ,-01111n-ttee who 
~ 1 

arc to ''C)ntt-nttc lht's year. The ~ group plans at least a 
role i.v that o/ men who control the means o/ production in our·,------------------------------1 



Stepan Center 
Dance Spectacular in Person 
The 







BOX TOPS 
"Soul Deep" -"The Letter" etc. 
The Mystic Love 
Plus Tom Rivers, WJVA Deejay Thurs. Oct. 23 Admission $2.50 8:00-11:30 p.m. 

/-lore/co·
150 REGULAR $64.50 
~tow 





$5997 

Charlie's 
Iii US! YOUR BANK CAROle 
'i7&il:ill4i*..~· 
OPEN DAILY 9-6 
SAT. 9a.m. to 5p.m. 
774 Lincoln Way East 
colleges. Trustee J. Peter Grace is president of W.R. Grace & 
Co., 
and director of fourteen other corporations, including Grace Line, 
Kcnnecot Copper, Magnavox, and Brazilian Light and Power Co 
Ltd. 
E.J. llanley is chairman, chief executive officer, and for president of Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corp. and director of 12 more, including Mellon National Bank and Mine Safety Appliances Co., which derives part of its profits from Rhodesian holdings. Another director of the same three corporations is Trustee John T. Ryan, president and chairman of the board of Mine Safety Appliances, an For detailed information, see the director of eight other corporations, including ILJ. Heinz C'o. 
J&L Career Opportunities booklet 
third director of Allegheny Ludlum is Trustee Joseph A. Martino 
chairman of the board of five corporations. lie is a director and check your Placement Office 
nineteen corporations, including Goodyear Tire and Rubber, A 
can Broadcasting-Paramount Theaters, and the Chase Manhattan 
Bank, which has extensive dealings in South Africa. 
Three-fourths of the Trustees thus represent a governing class with 
[I]

definite interests in universities like ours. But "Student representa­tion rm the Board was denied because uf an incompatibility 'with 

STEEL

the 1111derlying principles on which the Board has been constituted.· The Board jdt that a member ought to have complete disinterest in the judgments of the Board and 'should not represent any special class or group' "(Obsenw, 10/13/69). 
It is in their interests to promote the illusion that the University is a Community of Scholars engaged in the Dispassionate Search for Truth and Wisdom in a Christian Environment, and that any difficulties with them arc simply the result of a Communications Problem or (;eneration Gap. 
It is our task to dispel such myths, expose the role of the university in a class society, and struggle to make the university serve the people, rather than a system which operates to assure the private profit of a few. 


PITT WEEKEND 
Final Ticket Sales 


7:30 2D LAFORTUNE 

finance corporations and trustee of St. Mary's and two o h~··l--------------------------------------l----------------------l 

Jones &laughlin 
Steel Corporation 
~here Career Choice 
is Less of a Gamble 

Will be interviewing on campus 

THE OBSERVER.. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1969
PAGE4 

Two ra1se records to 2-0 1n lnterhall Football 
by Jack Schaefer 
OBSERVER Sports Writer 
Grace-St. Ed's 3 Flanner 2 
A classic game. Flanner led 2-0 at the half on a safety. The safety came when Grace-St. Ed's attempted a punt which Flanner blocked back through the Grace­St. Ed's end line (a Ia Mike Jim Griffen directed a fine Grace-St. Ed's drive down to the l 0 yard line where Flanner's defense stiffened. Tom Cullen came in and kicked a perfect 26-yard field goal to give Grace­St. Ed's the game. 
Zahm 12 Farley 0 The only scoring threat in the 

r~?:~!::::=~~=~;~~~J~~;~t~:?!:f:::~~:f:~~~~Jlli:+:::#-:~1::W?::~:=:f::~~:~lW:%:l:g~~~: 
~~i~h :~~:::ke thJ 

Jones should be in ROTC 
Off Campus 14 Sorin 0 

..... © 196t, Los Angeles nmas ~;~:. Mysliwiec threw 11 yards to Ray ::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::•:::::::;:;;;;;;::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::~:::-::. Donovan and a 20-0 lead. In Off Campus led 6-0 at the 
·.. NEW YORK -OK, wise guy, you STILL don't believe in Santa the second half Mysliwiec threw half as Mike Piacentino threw a Claus? a 22-yard screen pass to Foy as 17-yard strike to Bud Clifford Think Aladdin was a junkie? Go around telling people Peter Pan Keenan continued to roll. Joe against a tough Sorin defense. In 
used wires? You think Mary Poppins was just something made up by Walt 
Disney? 
OK, smart aleck, explain the New York Mets to me. 
Let me ask you something. Feel your scalp begin to prickle about 
the sixth inning? Did you get the feeling there was somebody in the 
room with you? Quickly look under the bed, did you? 
What?! You don't believe in miracles?! Get outta here! 
Listen! AI Weis CAN'T hit a home run in Shea Stadium. He never 
has. SOMEBODY wearing his number hit a home run Friday. The 
pitcher, who has pitched against AI Weis in the American League, 
gave him a look you get on a guy who has just stuck his finger in a 
light socket. 
You remember all those hokey old Warner Bros. movies where 
they had "Angels in the Outfield" on the marquee?Well, the Mets 
had 'em in the infield, the outfield, the dugout, the front office, the 
bullpen, the bench, the clubhouse, the trainer's room. And behind 
the plate. They got more seraphs in the woodwork than the Vatican. 
If I were you, I'd go down and check the locker room and see if 
St. Christopher is taking a shower. 
The team is owned by this kind of nice, dotty old lady who goes 
around in floppy hats and sensible shoes. She goes home by umbrella 
every night. Julie Andrews gets the part if they make the Mets into a 
movie. 
If they do, it'll be one of those midnight spook movies. 
I don't know where they got this team, but I'll bet it's a cemetery. 
What I'd REALLY like to do is, check those umpires. If you see 
one of them flying by a 20th story window, report it to the 
commissioner of baseball. 
Look ·at it this way: In the top of the sixth inning, Frank 
Robinson gets hit by a fastball that like to give him a blood clot on 
the thigh. He had to go in the clubhouse to get it iced or it would 
have put a hole in his pants. He got the swelling down in less than a 
half-hour. But he didn't get first base. What he got was a strikeout. 
OK. Now, we're in the bottom of the sixth and that funny little 
team is at bat. The one that GLOWS in the dark. 
A fastball does NOT hit Cleon Jones. Jones knows this. I know 'this. The umpire knows this. I'm just guessing, of course, but there's ~no blood on the ball. But there is shoe polish. Now, who put it there 
is known only to God. And we're beginning to figure out whose side 
He's on, aren't we? 
It's for sure it wasn't put there by Cleon Jones' shoes. It's the 
SIXTH inning, right? Now, the only guy whose shoes are still shined 
by the SIXTH inning is the team doctor. Cleon Jones had made two 
putouts and chased a few homers and singles by that inning. But, 
shucks. C!eon Jones scores his first run of the Wodd Series a short 
time later when Donn Clendenon hits his third home run. 
Guys who hit three home runs in short World Series are guys who 
have their pictures on the wall of the Hall of Fame. Ruth, Gehrig, to 
name a couple. Donn Ciendenon is no banjo hitter but he has 
trouble hitting three home runs in a month. He has been shopped 
around the league like a suit that won't sell. The Mets got him in a 
markdown. Montreal put him in the window and the Mets picked 
him up. He's riding around in a new car todax. 
Wait a minute, don't go 'way. I'm coming to the best part. 
It's the bottom of the eighth inning and Cleon Jones, whose shoes have dust all over them by now, so he can't try THAT again, hits a double. Ron Swoboda, who, like the original Mets, once couldn't catch a ball hit right at him and now he's catching ones you have to fly to, hits a double. So, the Mets take the lead. Why? Because Cleoa Jones is RUNNING. 
Now, on a play like that where the left fielder looked all the way as if he is going to make the catch, you DON'T run. Not unless yo·J know something. 
The Mets play like they got a look at the cards. It's like getting in a crap game on a boat when you take them on. Bring a barrel to go home in. 
Blind faith is making a comeback. The broadcaster, Jim Simpson, 
put the right light on it when he said that, on Wednesday, the 
Baltimore left fielder looked up to heaven for help -and lost the 
ball in the sun. Joe Garagiola says that when the Vatican cut St. 
Nicholas adrift, the Mets picked him up on waivers. 
So, leave a little something out for the Easter Bunny next year, 
will you, like a good fellow? 

tercepted a pass and returned it granted a second life. Jim Dahl to the Zahm 20. However, the picked off a Walsh pass and interception return was nullified Dillon drove down to the Walsh by a clip. In the second half l where they fumbled back to Kenny Lund got off a beautiful Walsh. Dillon then forced a 48-yard punt for Zahm putting Walsh fumble which resulted in a Farley deep in its own territory. safety and a 2-0 lead. In the Farley promptly fumbled the second half Nick Peluse came up ball back into its own end zone with the game's big play. Peluse where Bill Cassell of Zahm fell intercepted a Walsh pass and on it for 6 points. Later in the made a spectacular 41-yard re­half Zahm scored on a !-yard turn down to the Walsh 4. From plunge by Lund. there Don Vicars went over for Keenan 35 Carroll 0 the TD and the two-point con­
Keenan completely domi­version. Walsh fought back be­nated the game against a much hind the fine passing of Dave weaker Carroll team. John Griev­Porter. Two passes to elusive 
ing took a pitchout and skirted John Nesline and a reception by right end for 5 yards and the Chris Stephan brought Walsh first Keenan TD. Grieving ran down to the 3 where Joe DiGio­the same play for the 2 points. vanni went over for the score. 
Kevin O'Connell took a pitchout The last play of the game re­6 yards for the second TD. The sulted in a brawl which cleared final TD of the half came as Bob 
both benches. 

Garagiola kicked the extra point. the second half Off Campus Keenan picked up two more as a blocked a Sorin punt and re­Carroll snap from center went covered on the Sorin 8. From astray on a punt attempt and there Piacentino executed a resulted in a safety. Keenan re­beautiful pass to Brendam Lan­serve QB Mark (Joe Willie) Law-tier for the score. Dan Valentino renee fired 34 yards to Joe carried for the two points. The Simpson for the final score. only real Sorin drive was halted Garagiola converted. with the help of a IS-yard bench penalty. Jim Hansen stood out Dillon 10 Walsh 6 in the Off Campus secondary. Throughout the game Off Cam­
The game opened with a flur­ry as Walsh recovered a Dillon 
pus exhibited a poised, well­fumble and promptly scored on 
drilled offense and a strong, quick defense.

a 38-yard pass. However,the TD was disallowed due to excessive Holy Cross 6 Morrissey 0 roughness and Dillon was 
The only scoring in this 

rugged defensive battle occurred in the first half as Holy Cross went to the air. Craig Digilio threw 20 yards to Bill Schoen who carried the ball to the Mor­rissey 4 yard line. From there Digilio stepped back and rifled the ball to Schoen for the TD and what turned out to be the game. Neither team really mounted a strong threat in the second half. 
The In terhall Office an­nounced that last week's B-P­Cavanaugh game has been awarded to Cavanaugh by for­feit. Apparently B-P made use of an ineligible player. B-P had won 7-0. 
STANDINGS 

Section A:  
League I  w  L  T  
Holy Cross  2  0  0  
Pangborn  0  0  0  
Lyons  0  0  
Morrissey  0  0  
League II  w  L  T  
Off Campus  2  0  0  
Dillon  1  1  0  
Alumni  0  0  1  
Walsh  0  1  1  
Sorin  0  1  0  
Section B:  
League Ill  w  L  T  
Zahm  1  0  0  
Cavanaugh  1  0  0  
B-P  0  1  0  
Farley  0  1  0  
League IV  w  L  T  
Stanford  1  0  0  
Keenan  1  0  1  
Grace-St. Ed's  1  0  1  
Flanner  0  1  0  
Carroll  0  2  0  

Michigan bombs , after Goshen tie 
The Notre Dame Soccer Club 

tied and lost this past week, 
dropping its season record to 

3-2-l. 
Notre Dame and Goshen con­

tinued their spirited soccer ri­
valry last Wednesday and after 
an afternoon of pushing, shov­
ing, and other violations there 
was nothing settled: the final 
score was knotted at 1-l. The 
action was so heated that two 
players were ejected from the 
match. 
Goshen entered the contest with a record of 6-0-l, but the Irish took command at the start and led 1-0 at the half. The ND score came on a penalty kick by Thor Paulsen. Goshen came back in the second half on a goal by Larry Miller and the score was to remain this way despite two five-minute overtime periods. 
Because of increasingly rough play in this series, the Irish may discontinue play against their Hoosier neighbors. 
The Irish offense once again 

got off 28 shots on goal, but team captain Greg Abrams was discouraged by their accuracy. Besides Paulsen, other members of the squad who played excep­tionally well were Jim Patton and freshman Jeff Noonan who substituted for one of the ejected players. Goalie Maury Brie stopped 17 Goshen shots to aid in saving the tie. 
The Irish suffered their se­cond loss of the season on Sun­day in a game that the entire team could not get "up" for. The Michigan Wolverines were the culprits in this match as they rolled to a 7-1 verdict at Ann Arbor. 
Notre Dame was hampered by the absence of three starting players (Paulsen, Ken Foley, and Patton). The field was in rather poor condition also but of course this was a disadvantage for both sides. The lone bright spot for the Irish came in the second half on a goal by substi­tute Dan Burke off of Fred Rohol's assist. Three men scored twice in leading U. of M. They were Flores, Sassich, and Taube. 
Notre Dame scored on one of 



Cleveland 
The Notre Dame Rugby team turned in an impressive perfor­mance in their first home ap­pearance of the season last Sat­urday, trouncing the Cleveland Rugby Club, 19-0, in a match played behind the Stepan Cen­ter. 
Bob Monahan and John Leino tallied five points apiece in lead­ing the potent Irish offense. Monahan ran for a try, worth three points, and made a conver­sion for two points, while Leino booted a penalty kick, good for three points, and also added a conversion. 

Mike Paterni, Charlie Blum, and Skip Gilmartin each regis­tered trys to complete the scor­ing. 
The win was the Irish ruggers second in three starts. 

The Notre Dame "B" team completed a sweep of the day's action by romping to their third win of the season without a setback and their 47th victory in their last 49 games, crushing the "B" squad of the Cleveland Rug­by Club, 28-0. 
Chuck Leggero, Ken Kern 12 shots. The Wolverines cashed in on 7 of 23. Maury Brie had II saves in the first half and Bob 

McAleer turned back five shots in the last half. 
Next game for ND will be on Saturday versus nationally 
ranked  Blackburn.  It  will  be  
played  behind  the  Stepan Cen­ 
ter.  


dumped 

and John Dostal were standouts for the "B" team. 
The Irish swing into action again next Saturday when they travel to New Orleans to oppose Tulane University. 
Barz 6 in Ind. 
INDIANAPOLIS (UP!) 
Anderson, Indiana's lone re­maining unbeaten and untied college football team, Monday also had the individual scoring leader in hard-running Neil Rector. 
And he's only a freshman! 
Rector scored twice in last Saturday's 56-8 romp at Bluff­ton, Ohio, and added three 2 point conversions to run his season total to 54 points and a 12 point lead over his closest rival for the championship. 

Tied for sixth place were Bill Barz of Notre Dame and John Rusert of Valparaiso, with 36 points apiece, both shut out last Saturday. 





