MCGRATH LETTER 
To the Members of Saint Mary's Academic Community: 
During the past week some students of Saint Mary's College have 
o.:juestioned the decision of the College not to promote or to grant 
tenure to individual members of the faculty. They have also questioned 
the decision not to renew the contracts of some probationary faculty 
members. 
All decisions concerning the renewal of contracts, the promotion in 
rank, or the granting of tenure must be made by the appropriate college 
committee, faculty, or administrator who bears this responsibility 
under the statutes of Saint Mary's College. When such decisions are 
negative, it is the policy of Saint Mary's College never to make the 
negative decision a matter of public information. 
The recommendations of the Rank and Tenure Committee, the 
faculty, and administrators of Saint Mary's College during the past few 
months hava been procedurally and professionally above reproach. 
There has been no evidence, either oral or written, presented by the 
students to warrant a re-examination of the decision which have been 
made. 
The restructuring of the statutes of the College to give the student 
body a more formal role in academic and faculty affairs is being studied 
by a committee of students and faculty established earlier in the year. 
The recommendations of this committee will undoubtedly further the 
continued growth of community government of which we are justly 
proud. Until the work of this committee is rompleted, any change in 
the present statutory procedures is premature. 
Sincerely yours, Rev. John J. McGrath, President 
THE WORLD TODAY 
! 
ITHE I 

OBSERVER 
Servifll the Notre Dame tmd St. Milry's College Community 
VOL. II I, NO. 84 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 19~ 
McGrath rejects proposal to re-examine faculty cases 
by OBSERVER associate editor, .;omrnittce's decision on on faculty committees which
BETTY DOERR re-examination. McGrath's meets today. The ad hoc
Saint Mary's President Msgr. 

announcement of the committee is corn posed of sixJohn J. McGrath said yesterday committee's decision is printed stu~ents and six facultythat he has received no evidence above. In an exclusive interview members under thefrom students to warrant a with WSND, McGrath stated chairmanship of Sister Franzita.
re-examination of a decision not that the Rank and Tenure That committee's decision 

t o promote, grant tenure or Committee "s a w no reason to would be reported to the renew the contracts of several reconvene, and I concurred with Faculty Assembly, meeting onfaculty members. He said that that decision." McGrath said Monday. If the F'a c u Ityhis decision not to re-examine that in the future, he would Assembly approves the proposal,the contested cases of eight favor students informing their the Board of Trustees would faculty members was made after department chairmen of their make the final decision on it.

meetings with student 

opinion on a faculty member's The Board of Trustees will meet representatives, letters received 
teaching ability, so that the in April.
from the student body, and the 

department chairmen could take 
recommendation of the four "irrevocably"
that opinion to the Rank and
Nixon pledges to continue poverty war permanent members of the rank 
Tenure Committee. When questioned by a WSND
and tenure committee which 
reporter on the possibility of

Decision by Board of Trustees
WASIIINGTON (UPI) -President Nixon pledged yesterday to met Tuesday at the request of militant student action, McGrath continue the war on poverty, but told Congress he intends to try to the students. McGrath said that the student said that he would grant fifteen It:arn from the mistakes of the past to find better ways to help the proposal for seating on the Rnak
" No reason to convene'" grace minutes to students taking 
poor. and Tenure Committee would part in a sit-in or disruption ofIn his first message to Congress, Nixon asked for lawmakers to The students had asked that have to be taken to the ad hoc 
classroom activity. If they

extend the controversial Office of Economic Opportunity that he they be notified of the committee for student seating persisted, McGrath said that heinherited from the Johnson administration. But he proposed that "would dismiss them. Expel\lEO, in a series of operating changes, be made a research and 
them permanently and

experimental agency that proposes and tries out new approaches irrevocably. Without appeal."

Two more in SSP race
rather than administers the main assault on poverty. 
Nixon said he y,ould usc presidential authority to delegate two of OEO's best known programs to other agencies. Job Corps, the away John Mroz, Student Union offering referendums to the Rossie releases from home training program for youthful dropouts, would go to the Academic Commissioner, and students on important issues. Labor Department. Head Start, the preschool program for poor Mike Kendall, Stay Senator and letter concerning
chairman of the senate's human

children that had Ladybird Johnson's special patronage, will go to Jones stated that this was the Health, Education and Welfare (HEW) department. affairs committee have thrown important so "students may res pons i bi I ity 
their hats into the ring for the 

determine their own destiny." 
Student Body President
Student Body Presidency joining 

Mroz feels that a new Richard Rossie issued a letter to
East Germany warns of provocation Phil McKenna in the race for the 
definition of the roles of the 
all Notre Dame students
top spot. 

individual class governments and yesterday in which he expressedBERLIN (UPI) -East Germany warned yesterday that the Mroz named Ted Jones, a clarification of the duties of an explicit student powerplanned flight to West Berlin today of West German President Student Government Human student bod'"y government philosophy together with viewsHeinrich Luebke aboard a U.S. Air Force plane would be a Affairs Commissioner, as his 
officials as stated in the 
on the recent suspension of the"provocation." The East Germans also harassed traffic going in and running mate. Barney King has constitution were needed. 
Honor Council's activity. 
out of the city for the second consecutive day. been speculated as Kendall's On student government heAn East German Foreign Ministry spokesman said Luebke's flight running matr, though the J. Fitzsimmons has been wrote:would be a "misuse of the air routes of the East German Democratic official announcement will not tapped to manage Mroz's .the fulfillment ofRepublic." He said the visit would be a "provocation" because West be given until Friday. campaign for the top spot. In a 
student rights and power
Berlin is not part of the West German state. Mroz termed his ticket prepared statement announcing requires that students assumeLuebke is flying here for a two day routine visit in a U.S. Air "progressive" and said that he is his candidacy Tuesday night, responsibility. .We talk ofForce plane because West German aircraft may not use the three going to "concentrate on Kendall spoke of a few elements student self-government, to
20-mile wide air corridors and the East Germans have threatened to harmony in the Notre Dame common to each student of the halt German officials' road trips to the city. community" by appealing to university. He said, ··wc find this which I am fully committed, and yet too often
"the grass roots level." Mroz common ground in the many students mean student
contended that "flaws in basic disturbing divisions between
Marines fight off North VIet attack autonomy in a very real and
communication" exist between students and their own complete sense."
faculty, the administration, and government organization that at SAIGON (lJPI) -U.S. Marines fought hordes of North students, and that his and Jones' times acts as if it were more a About the llonor Council he Vietnamese troops yesterday on fog shrouded ridges overlooking the "record of implementing corporation than a government said: A Shau Valley and killed at least 196 Communists while American change" is proof of their ability composed of students." He also .The Honor 
artillerymen exchanged fire with Red gunners across the Laotian to serve the studnts. finds a common clement in "the Council's action, which I am border, military spokesmen said. Mroz and Jones stated that tensions of studies, of social life, not so sure is correct, has shed The Marines also uncovered a mass grave believed to contain the they had studied ideas drawn the sameness of our communal doubt on whether students arc 
bodies of 185 Communist troops killed earlier, officers at the scene 
from other UDivenitica, such u 
assuming responsibility.".,.__. reported. . .. '~ Fighting Wednesday was the heaviest around the A Shau since 5,000 Marines and 2,000 government troops pushed into the surrounding jungle peaks a month ago, 
Vance confident: talks to bring peace 
PARIS (UPI)-Outgoing U.S. deputy negotiator Cyrus R. Vance left Paris yesterday with a confident prediction that peace would emerge from the Vietnam conference in Paris. But he _warned it would be a long process. 
Vance disclosed he had paid a "farewell call" on North Vietnamese negotiators. But he declined to say what was discussed during the meeting, which presumably included his 1-hnoi opposite, Col. lla Van Lau. 
"I do believe eventually a settlement of the Vietnam problem will come out of the Paris meetings," Vance told reporters before flying off to Morocco for a two-week vacation before returning to New York. It's official now ! Oh Boy, ~roz, KendaU, and 1\fcKenna. 

PAGE 2 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 20, HlR<l
THE OBSERVER 
•

Harris sees 'new trinity of concerns' 1n 70's 
Public opininion analyst Louis Harris, in a lecture in the Library Auditorium yesterday, examined American life on the eve of the 1970's and came up with a "new trinity of concerns" which will be the focal point of American activity in the coming decade. The lecture was the third in the Cardinal O'Hara Series 
"I love You"-we'll call you 3 times a wk to say just that. Send $1.00 and phone number to Box 397 SMC 
sponsored by the College of Business Administration. 
The picture Mr. Harris presented of American life was one of two competing groups, which he described as "the coalition for change" and "the coalition for no change." The coalition for change consists of the young, the blacks, the affluent and the educated. The coalition for no change is made up of the whites of the deep South, old people, and the conservatives in the suburbs. By 1972, he predicted that the two groups would be of approximately equal size. 

Each of the groups, according to Harris, feels alienated. The members of the no change group feel that they are being left behind by a changing world which they thought they had once conquered. The affluent progressives are more insecure, said Harris, citing results from his polls concerning job dissatisfaction, loneliness and marital troubles. 
"The challenge of 1970," he contended, "is to close these alienation gaps. The proliferation of mobility and communication is opening up "People have begun to take the economic function for granted," Harris said. Instead they will have to concentrate on his "new trinity of concerns." This trinity is: race relations, the role of U.S. power in the world and the ability of the country to cope with non-conformity. 
'The way to break up these problems is from the top down. The new leadership must not rest until the identity bf every man is secures," Harris added. 
In the question period after the lecture, the main concern was with the recent presidential elections and the role the polls 
Harris said, "I was most proud of my polls for finding the strength of George Wallace." Near the beginning of October his polls showed that only 40% of the people felt that Wallace was a recist, 43% thought he was an extremist and that he could eventually receive 30% of the popular vote. When these results were released, he said, the media began to do more thorough coverage of Wallace. With the added scrutiny Wallace's strength declined. Eventually 60% though Wallace was a racist and 71% believed he was an extremist. 


more options. Educating people 
to control their options 
Mrs. Morris dies at 83
intelligently is the way to end the alienation." After over fifty-five years of money to Notre Dame. President service to the South Bend area as Theodore Hesburgh once 
••sest of Everything ,, 
an active community leader and remarked about her, "Despite all

Party 

The most important objective 
philanthropist, Mrs. Ella L. the things she has done for the
of these two groups will no 
Morris, 83, died yesterday after University, I have never had her
longer be the pursuti of
Bud -Brand X -Stag Prices 

a three-week illness. ask a single thing for herself. She
economic advancement. 45% of 
Besides having given to the doesn't take jobs for bows. She
Saturday, Feb. 22, 8:30-2:00 

all households will have a 
city of South Bend such does the hard work that goes
member with a college degree 
institutions as the Morris School along with them."
Hillside Barn 

and the majority of these will be 
for crippled children, the Palace The prominent community
professional people rather than 

Theatre (now the Morris CivicBuses Leave Circle 8:00, 8:20,8:45,9:00 the "old line business types." worker was officially honored 
Auditorium),u and the Ella L. 
by this University with the Morris Conservatory for flowers 
conferral of an honorary degreein Potawatomi Park, Mrs. Morris 
at commencement ceremonies in has given generously of time and 1957.
WOUI.D YOU I.IKE TO BE 

Mroz; Kendall join SBP race 

continued from Page 1 
"These are our mutual position. More than hat, he dilemnas," Kendall said, "and feels strongly that a definite only by working together can we change in the extant isolation on find mutual solutions." this campus is essential, and thus 
Kendall will attempt to meet has accepted the position." with every student both on and When asked to comment on off campus. He said, "I cannot his role in the campaign, K undtz hope to do this alone ... That is said, "I think that responsible why I ask your help, for as much news reporting is vital to any as each of us serves student campaign, because of its role in government, student government delineating the issues and its will serve us all." cogent and well informed 
explications of these issues. Kendall began his freshman 
Because of these reasons, I will year as a Keenan Hall senator 
keep the news media as well and a member of the class' Ex­
informed of Kendall's activities ecutive Council. During his and positions as possible." sophomore year Kendall became 
Rich Libowitz withdrew from Carroll Hall senator, organized the SBP race Wednesday night in and chaired the Notre Dame a surprise radio announcement.

Students for Kennedy, and He stated that although the lack coordinated Notre Dame's NSA of social change, racism, and the delegation in Kansas. This year 
small percentage of non-Catholic Kendall is serving as NSA com­
students at Notre Dame were missioner at Notre Dame and its 
"Enacceptable", his candidacyregional vice-chairman, as well as 
could only serve to heighten the serving as a cabinet member, divisiveness in student politics.

Stay-Senator and chairman of 
Libowitz endorsed Phil 

the Human Affairs committee. 
McKenna and said that since both men desired to see the Kendall also announced the 
same things done at Notre a;1pointment of Bob Kundtz, Dame, his candidacy served no c:1airman of the Lyons Hall constrnctive purpose. 

J1•dicial Board and a hall council Lib ow i tz stated that he 
1PC:mber, as his press. secretary. 
"definitely is opposed to John Mroz" and told his listeners over Kendall. said of Kundtz, an WSl'TD to look up Judges 5,23
SCRIPTO PEN AT THE BOOKSTORE, 

/u,Jerican history major and which says, "Cursed be ye,
THE CASHIER WILL GIVE YOU 

former WSND-FM announcer, Mroz." A LUCKY NUMBER WHICH COUT,D 
"With his previous experience as "It was the closest thing to a BE THE ONE DRAWN ON MARCH 10. 
a journalist on his hometown Jewish Student Body President newspaper, his capabilities make that Notre Dame will ever see,"
BE SURE TO PURCHASE YOUR 

· him an excellent person for this Libowitz said. 
SCRIPTO PEN AND ALSO ENTER THE: 
SCRJPTO MYSTERY TOUR 

PRE-LAW? 
You have nothing to lose. And 

CAREER IN LAWS SYMPOSIUM
everything to gain. Just send in 
your Mystery Tour entry blank. 

Attorneys discuss: Corporste,
10 Lucky Gals and 10 Lucky Guys will tour Eur6pe-together­

Labor, Poverty and Civil Liberties 
like it's never been toured before. 
Law & Teaching
Four weeks of joy and ecstacy. In Europe's grooviest cities. You start In London-the rest Is a 

THURS., FEB. 20 8:00 
mystery. Only the bus driver knows 
the way. 

LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
Bistros by night. Beaches by day. 

Refreshments-No Charge
Scrlpto will wine you and dine you ••• 
all for the price of a juicy 
Scripta pen. 

The Observer is published daily during the college semester except
A vail able at the 
vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer Box 11, l'"otrc Dame Ind., 46555. Second class postage paid, Notre Oam~ Ind. 
46556.
N:otre Dame Hammes Bookstore 


THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1969 'THE OBSERVER P/\GE 3 
MR. DeYOUNG: 



Dear Mr. DeYoung: 
"Is Business Bluffing Ethical?" is a recent article which appears in the Harvard Business Review (January-February 1968). In that article the author, Albert Z. Carr, raises some difficult questions about the nature of competition among business organizations and about the relationship of a person's ethical and moral standards to the conduct of daily business. Several examples of conflicts between ethics and "business sense" were cited. Let's consider a concrete example. 
Tom was a sales executive with a Southern firm. He told of an instance when he had lunch with one of his most important customers, a Mr. Colby. At the time of their meeting, the state was having a very heated political campaign over which Tom and Colby were of different persuasions. Colby mentioned that he was treasurer of the citizens' committee supporting the candidate Tom opposed. Before the two men got down to business, Colby asked if he could count on Tom for a $100 contribution to the Lang campaign fund. Tom's reaction was the following: "Well, there I was. I was opposed to Lang, but I knew Colby. If he withdrew his business I could be in a bad spot. So I just smiled and wrote the check then and there." 
Upon discussing the matter with his wife, 
Tom found that she was bitterly 
disillusioned with the business world 
because it could put such pressures on a 
person to go against his own values. 
Tom's perception of the incident was that 
"it was an either/or situation. I had to do 
it or risk losing the business." 
Mr. Carr suggests that such situations are part of the "game" which governs the business world. He goes on to compare ethical standards of business organizations today with the ground rules of a poker game. "That most businessmen are not indifferent to ethics in their private lives, everyone will agree. My point is that in their office lives they cease to be private citizens; they become game players who must be guided by a somewhat different set of ethical standards." 
Finally, Carr cites a Midwestern executive 
as saying "So long as a businessman complies with the laws of the land and avoids telling malicious lies, he's ethical. There is no obligation on him to stop and consider who is going to be hurt. If the law says he can do it, that's all the justification he needs. There is nothing unethical about that. It's just plain 
business sense." 
Mr. DeYoung, the student whom business wants for its management ranks is not interested in playing games where he must maintain two identities and two sets of ethical values-one as a private citizen and one as a businessman. I would be interested to know how you personally reconcile the conflicts between your ethical beliefs and your "business sense." 
Sincerely yours, 
David G. Clark(}~ _,f, ~ 
Graduate Studies, Stanford 
Dear Mr. Clark: 

Indeed there are some men of the calibre 
you cite in business; probably in greater 
number than most responsible 
executives know. 

I suspect also that there are many instances where a man like your sales executive, Tom, compromises his personal "ethics" to make a sale. But wasn't he trapped by his own supposition? Didn't he write-off his own company's integrity, along with the history of the customer's satisfaction with their product line and service backup, when he wrote the check? 
It strikes me that a little intestinal 

fortitude, and a tactful remark about his 
own political convictions, would have 
brought the issue to a proper test: 

business based on quality products and 
service versus "bought" business. 

If the man won't make the test, then he 
ought not to make business a whipping 
boy because he chose to compromise his 
own standards. If his employer won't 
stand the test, then his choice is obvious: quit, and join a company whose standards measure up to his own. In the long run he will have done himself a favor because an ethical man, who is competent, always is 
in high demand. A posture aligned with high standards will gain more respect of significance than any setbacks sustained 
through loss of a few sales. 

As for the Midwestern executive who equates business' ethical standards simply to compliance with the law-it being implied that this falls short of what society would expect-1 question both his awareness of the law's comprehensiveness, and his insight into most businessmen's motivations. 
Responsible executiw~s don't make decisions on the basis of legal permissiveness; of seeing what they can get away with at the risk of courting punitive actions at law, or the public's displeasure. Those are negative yardsticks, and the thrust of business thinking that involves moral judgments is affirmative. 
Check product specifications, for example, and see how many exceed standards established by regulation. Results: a better 
WHO CARES ABOUT STUDENT OPINION 7 
BUSINESSMEN DO. 

,, • I' 
Three chief executive officers-The Goodyear Tire &
-
Rubber Company's Chairman, Russell DeYoung, The Dow Chemical Company's President. 
H. D. Doan, and Motorola's Chairman, Robert 
W. Galvin-are responding to serious questions and viewpoints posed by students about business and its role in our changing society ... and from their perspective as heads of major corporations are exchanging views through means of a campus Icorporate Dialogue Program on specific issues raised by leading stodent spokesmen. 
Here. David G. Clark. a Liberal Arts graduate student at Stanford, is exploring a question with Mr. DeYoung. Administrative activities in Greece and Austria, along with broadening experien~ce 
quality product. greater performance, 
longer life expectancy. 
Take re-training and re-assignment of employees to better-paying jobs requiring greater skills when automation phases out various work slots. Results: more highly-skilled employees, better-earning potential, greater job security. 
Consider the direct personal involvement of more executives, and the application of their company resources, in efforts to deal effectively with such urban crises as ghetto unemployment. Results: mora local employment, a step toward self-help, a broadening base for stability. 
None of these actions are compelled by law ... they are taken voluntarily by businessmen acting under the compulsion of their personal ethics. It is the beliefs underlying such actions that I regard as the criteria for responsible businessmen's ethics. Critics may question this criteria as self-interest. I'll buy that. It is. But it is enlightened self-interest which is simply good "business sense," and reflects the ethical standards that broadly prevail in our free society. 
The point is that in business, ethiaal standards encompass not only questions of personal conduct and integrity, but thf.l whole range of business' activities with the public as a whole. Yet in the final analysis it is always the individual who must make the decision: a decision that will reflect the influences of one's family life, religion, principles gleaned from education, the views of others, and one's own inherent traits of character. It is these factors that show up in a man's business decisions, not the other way around. The man, therefore, who maintains his own convictions and sf)nse of moral values will be a better businessman, and will find that there really is little problem in developing a business career without fear of compromise. 
Sincerely, ~ U&.. 
Russell DeYoung, Chairman, 
r r 

The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company 
in university administration, already have claimed Mr. Clark's attention and auger well a career in international affairs. 
In the course of the entire Dialogue Program, 
Mark Bookspan, a Chemistry major at Ohio State. also will exchange viewpoints with Mr. 
DeYoung; as will David M. Butler, in Electrical Engineering at Michigan State, and Stan-Chess, Journalism, Cornell, with Mr. Doan; and similarly, Arthur M. Klebanoff. in Liberal Arts at 
Yale. and Arnold Shelby, Latin American Studies at Tulane, with Mr. Galvin. 
All of these Dialogues will appear in this publication. and other campus newspapers across the country, throughout this academic year. Campus comments are invited, and should be forwarded to Mr. DeYoung, Goodyear, Akron, Ohio; Mr. Doan. Dow Chemical, Midland, Michigan; or Mr. Galvin, Motorola, Franklin Park, Illinois, as appropriate. 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1969

PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER 
ND Sports: Reasons for the grant -in -aid? 
· 

by Tim O'Mellla 
Fourth in a five part series 

"I think athletics and academics are compatible," Athletic Director Edward "Moose" Krause said. "As Father 
•Iesburgh has said, everything can't be learned in the classroom. When a boy comes here for an education that includes three things: intellectual, spiritual and physical." 
The former all-American went on to describe the benefits to be derived from participating in athletics. "As Rockn~ has said, athletics develops character m a young man and self-discipline, things that are lacking in our country now. He learns to discipline himself l.'Dd others and get along with his fellow men, be he black 
Ch111ese, Christian or Jew. 
"He learns cooperation, teamwork, 
self-sacrifice and how to accept adversity. 
One of the most important things is 
discipline. A coach can't get a boy in 
shape, he must do that himself, both 
mentally and physically. 
"Our student-athlete works harder 

than the normal student. He has to, to 
participate in athletics and still get an 
education," Krause concluded. 
No one will argue that point, that 
everyone benefits from athletics. But why 
are 35 or 40 grant-in-aids given each year 
for football? Why not let the average 
student play? Is big league football 
necessary or even desirable? 
"If you want to play in the leagues, 
let's play in the big leagues" is the answer 
Krause gave. "The monies derived from 
football go into the other sports like 
baseball, track and swimming and into 
the intra mural program. There's nothing 
disgraceful about playing in the major 
leagues. I don't think we should ever 
make an apology for a winning team. We 
have an indomitable spirit here at Notre 
Dame, even if we do have a few 
goofballs." 
Executive vice-president Rev. Edmund 
P. Joyce, CSC, explained big time 
football at Notre Dame a little clifferently. "I think it's easily 
understandable. It's the nature\ outgrowth of the desire of young men to follow athletic pursuits. In this country football is the big sport. It's just natural g1ven the popularity of the sport for boys to compete against each other on the intramural level. 
"It's just as natural for them to want to challenge other colleges. It's perfec t ly understandable genesis. There's something in people which causes them to watch it. And I think this public interest in football is far healthier than its interest in some other things." 
Where does all this leave the normal student? Krause said·, "He gets plenty of return. The healthy financial success of athletics means more money goes into the general fund of the University. This building (Convo Center) was built with that money. I think athletics has played a big part in building this university. I think our students and alumni take pride that we have an excellent academic institution and also compete in the big leagues athletically. Our student-athlete is a real part of the student body." 
But how can an academic institution pay a student's way through school for non-acauem1 reasons·! Joyce said that was no problem. "That's very easy to justify. If a sport enables a kid to go through school who would't ordinarily come then it's worth it." No academic mone~ is spent on athletic grant-in-aids, in any case. 
Joyce voiced the only objection one could have to big time collegiate athletics. "The only criticism would be that of the abuses that have crept in." To guard against such contingencies there is a Faculty Board in control of athletics. They publish a booklet especially for use by the Notre Dame coaching staff to govern athletic policies. Joyce said, "I think we've led the way for the NCAA in many of the good things they have done." 
Included in the special athletic book are rules governing recruiting, scouting, awarding of monograms, trips and academic policy. The administration exercises a strong control over athletics. 

While the NCAA permits an athlete to participate with as low as a 1.6 academic average, Notre Dame's athletes follow the University's own rules which require a 
2.0 after the fourth semester. 
Joyce explained that Notre Dune has never re-shirted. If a Notre Dame athlete can't graduate in four years then he shouldn't be playing. "We're interested primarily in getting these boys an education." 
Neither does the University revoke an athlete's grant-in-aid if for some reason, injury or general interest in more academic pursuits, he wishes to discontinue participating. Only in cases of academic failure or other serious trouble is a grant taken away. 
Krause agreed. "Each school has its own policies. I don't think there's much to this idea of under the table stuff at other schools. At any rate our policy here is a very sincere one. Some places apparently don't run their programs as we do. But this is our bible-the NCAA rules. We promise our kids a college education. Period. Father Joyce says if anyone breaks those rules the coach goes and the player goes. When an athlete finishes ~ere he'll have a good sound college educatiOn. After all, you can't play pro football forever." 
Both Joyce and Krause are impressed with the integrity of the Notre Dame coaching staff. Joyce said, " The first 
thing we checked on when we were hiring Ara Parseghian was his integrity. We'd rather give up football first. We were completely satisfied. I think he's typical of th e other coaches here." 
Vice-president for Business Affairs, Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, CSC, told one story to show President Hesburgh's attitude concerning athletics. Some years ago an alumnus recruited a boy from the western Pennsylvania coal mining area. The boy had virtually no clothes to wear to the University so the alumnus bought 
him a wardrobe. Somehow Hesburgh found out about it and cornered the alumnus outside Sacred .Heart one day. 'The money was retrieved immediately. 
.<\ n example Gf tre austerity of thl' 
Notre Dame athletic program 1s the 
scouting policy. An opponent may be 
scouted three times but the coaches may 
send only one scout to any on~ game. 
Trips are closely watched also, w1th onl_y 
the personnel authorized by the athlet1c 
policy booklet permitted to travel. Other 
schools permit press, wives, rela~ives and 
others, paying their expenses m many 
cases. 

Re garding the sudden rise in the 
University's basketball fortunes Joyce 
gave credit for the success to Johnny Dee. 
He noted that the new building will 
probably help recruiting but there have 
been no changes in recruiting policy 
whatever. 
All those interviewed emphasized the 
benefit the student body has derived 
through the Athletic and Convocation 
Center. Krause said the building was 
constructed primarily or the stu d:nt. 
Dominick J. "Nappy" Napolitano, 
longtime head of Notre Dame's 
intramural program said, "Everyone 
always talks about character-building. 
Here it's true for all who want to 
participate. We are one of the seven 
schools in the United States who offer 
intramural tackle football. We don't 
preach one thing and do something else." 
Statistics back him up. More than 
2,500 of 5,800 undergraduates 
participated in some sport, about 45.1 
per cent. An almost unbelie vabl e total 
of 625 students played intramural 
football. Nappy has had to schedule 200 
basketball teams this winter. 
The student body benefits greatly from 
varsity athletics, the administration is 
stern about policy and the coaching 
staff's integrity is impeccable. Almost t]le 
best of all possible worlds. 
That leaves only the alumni. Wilson 
summed it up, "No school can guarantee 
that it's alumni aren't doing crazy 
things. But we like to do things on the up 
and up here." 
(Tomorrow-What is the ratio of student to athlete in the name student-athlete?) 
Editor: The President of the University has, in my opinion, 0 t 0
p r c e e de d f i 11 an administrative and enforcement vacuum that has existed heretofore. 
His decisive action raises two question; viz., (1) does he have authority to do what he has 
Purportedtodo?(Power)·,(2)is it desirable to do what he has purported to do? (Policy). 
F. t t0 h' owe There 
rrs • as IS P r. 
does not seem to be any serious doubt but that as chief executive officer of the University, deriving his authority from the 
Board of Trustees, he possesses a
b h 

broad authority to esta lis 
procedures calculated to preserve good order on the B h. 1 t h h 
'""'"'"""'"'"'"'uuumnmunmmnn""'"'""'"""Ih.e...,,~.~11 ....,.,.,.,.,..,..,..,ou..,,,,.,..,,.,''''"'''"''''"'"'""'''"' 
established procedures ot this type and informed interested parties as to what he has done. I perceive no abridgement of a n y o t h e r U n i v e r sit y 
"authority." If, however, it is believed that there is such abridgement, say of the authority of the Student Life Council, proper recourse is to 
theBoardofTrusteeswhichhas ultimate authority regarding matters touching the governance 
of the University. 
It is my personal conviction that an emergency situation 
exists,callingfordecisiveaction by the President, who is both the chief legal officer of the 
University and the one to whom 
the entrr· e Unl·versl·ty communl'ty 
looks for leadership in times of crisis 

Second, what of the policy considerations? While there may have been other alternatives open to the President, one cannot establish that the action 
taken is arbitrary or unreasonable. A realistic appraisal of existing conditions should convince almost anyone that the status quo was 
insufficient to provide implementation of approved poIicie s and regulations.
Something had to be done. 

If it should be that others in the University community, especially those who are 
members of important bodies (e.g., Academic Council, Faculty 
Senate, Student Senate, Student Life Council), believe other procedures are more desirable, 
Black Arts Festival 
Patrons and Sponsors will be sold tonight in the lobbie of the Dining Halls. 5:00-6:30 p.m. $1.00 and $2.00 
NEED ROOMMATE 
Furnished House, Garage, and Live-in Maid 
Call 289-2637 
----·-·-­

voluntary and dependent on his acceptance of the rules and they can move to effect changes through appropriate channels. Meanwhile, it is my hope that the President will be supported in the stance he 1-tas taken. 
Edward J. Murphy 
Prof. of Law 
Editor: The most pertinent statement in Father Hesburgh's "edict" 
was "It is both time and overtime that it be written." Let 
us remember that this or any other university is far removed
from bel·ng a democracy and
' 

was never intended to be such. A 
• d h is stufdent _s atttehn ance elret. en orcmg ese regu a tons 
(although they are quite liberal anyway) is laudatory. In February 17, 1969 edict (page 5) the Chancelor's remarks on the strategy of confrontation are indeed astute. This is the only possible rational approach to take when confronted with gangsters bent on enforcing their deviate wills on the right thinking majority. Sincerely, Glen Valenta Raymond Role Adam Lontai 
Editor: 
I would like to comment on the letter of February 14th signed by Arthur McFarland, AI Dean, and Walt Williams. It is because of my great knowledge 
of campus affairs that 1 
~:~~fdn~~~d 0~r\~~r ~~~r~la~:r:: 
Afro-American Society. Therefore, would assume that
1
he m us t be s m e w hat 
0 
he responsible, because is supposed to be a leader of
others. Yet, he acknowledges his part in writing a letter that to me is very hypocritical. The 
issue on which I am writing is
not concerning the black ballplayers' statement. I can 
·' 
agree with their viewpoint.
However, I cannot agree with that of their self-righteous"brothers." 1 am very discouraged and disappointed
every time a person condemns racism while using the terms of 
racism in describing those he accuses. a black man despises 
being called a "nigger," and I despise being called "whitey." The implications are quite clear in both cases. Gentlemen, you say that racism exists here at Notre Dame. I agree wholeheartedly. But perhaps you should realize that by making discriminatory remarks about my race, you are contr:buting to that problem which you so honorably decry. I think it is time you research your values and decide what qualities make a person a non-bigot. By referring to me as "whitey," you have shown me you don't possess those qualities. Sincerely, Dave Schmidt 241 Morrissey 






