

VOLUME IV, NO. 2 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1969 
Holliday to be publisher 
O'Meilia resigns post • Observer re-organizes
' 

by Glenn Corso Observer leadership experienced a surprise change and re-organization yesterday. Tim O'Melia, former edit or-in-chief, resigned. The position of publisher was created, and Don Holliday was appointed. Holliday, former executive editor, promptly appointcd (;uy DeSapio to the newly created position of editor. DeSapio was a former news editor. Tim commented on his resignation by saying, "My decision was a personal one. The finest people I've met on this campus have been connected wil h the OhserPer. I plan to continue to write for the pap­er., Tim added, "I resigned because found that the administrative chores which uccompany the job left me too little time for actual writing. By relieving myself of that responsibility I believe I can help myself in other areas in which the Obsen•er couldn't. The ro-organization set-up was a good move, I think. Don has been with the paper longer than anyone and there is simply no 
ROTC, CPA present programs 

hy Cliff W introde 

ThL· ROTC program ul oriL·ntalion Saturday felt the I hrust of the Coalition for Poliltcal Action. Inside the Convocation Center where the ROTC was holding its meeting, lllL'Illbns of the Coalilion passed out flyers advising freshmen to hold off a dL'L'ision to join ROTC. 
The Co;llition made clear in the flyer thai it held to the hl·licf that the RO'I ('program at Notre l>;tme is u detriment to the individual and it advertised for the informal group disL·ussions that were to follow lhl' com·lusion of the ROTC meeting. 
During the meeting the three heads of the ROTC dL'tatL:hrm:nts at Notre Dame gave a short talk on their partil'ular service. 
Colonl'l Lavin, Professor of Milil;rry Science, after extolling thL' virtUl'S of the /\rmy ROTC progmm and explaining how it operates made the most startling statement of the afternoon: 

"Less than ten years ago, at the bcginnmg of the current communist drive against youth, the N<~tional Youth Director of t h c Communist Party US/\ among other objectives included the following items for the 1960-1970 time phase: quote 
'push for the vast job-training, job-corps programs: agitate in the cities using the excuse of poor housing, poor school conditions: demand better recreational facilities and health progr a 111 s: d c rnand peaceful coexistence with all nations, socialist and · others: demand disarmament, the end of the draft, and above all else, an end to the ROTC program in the colleges of America.' 
"Current events show their success. If you join our program, as 20'Y,. of the students do, you will he pressured to drop or work against ROTC. The decision is yours." 
Colonel Lavin said that he 
included these comments in his 
spcech to "make students aware 
of the pressures they may be 
subjected to by a few." A person 
has to decide what side of the 
fence he is on." 
Colonel Puchrik, Professor of 
Aerospace Studies, said the Air 
Force "represents order and 
Propriety. Moral integrity and 
soundness is necessary to a 
person and we think in a very 
inti.,Jatc way we can bring it to 
you. We would hope to activate 
your words of love and duty to 
service." 

Colonel Staples, Professor of Naval Science and a member of the M<~rinc Corps, remarked that "the Navy and Marine Corps offers as broad an opportunity as any other service for an individual to accomplish everything that he is capable of doing. The Army is land bound. The /\ir Force is air bound. We operate everywhere." 
(Continued on page 2) 

~~G.O.'' initiates St. Mary's frosh 
by Carolyn Gatz Supl·rficially, the disintegration of "K nutc Rockne. /\11-Aml'fican" passes as the most drastic change in the St Mary's Freshman Orientation program. Most other clements in 
thl'  traditional schedule  have  
also  disappL·arcd,  however,  and  
I he  impact  of  the  "(;.o."  

Program ((;roup Orientation). could cause rcprn: ussions far beyond thl' death of the movie. 
Chairman Karen St:lwltz defim·s lhL' program as "a shift to emphasis on the individual and thl' individu;rl reacting with oltn·rs in (;roups, to loosen the molds that St. Mary's has 
traditionally poured freshmen 
into." 

The reception for the President of the college, mixers, and Big Sisters remain part of thl' scene confronting freshmen before classes. Informal ion and explanations will come through 29 groups of 16-IR freshmen. each led by a junior, who was trained in workshops last spring and before freshman arrival. 
Orientation began yesterday afternoon as "Field Duy" occupied the c<~st lawn. (;roups com pcted in q uasi-alhletic events to facilitate "becoming acquuintcd and developing u 
group identity," as Miss Schultz 
cxplaincjl. Frequency of Group mcctiiJgs after today will he self-determined: though the Groups will replace all Freshmen Convocations, providing 
mfonuation through the year. 

The Orientation Committee, M is3 Schultz expluins, will encourage the groups to go beyond the informative level to "encourage the freshmen to figure out for themselves that their education should be their major concern. Possibly, as their perspective dcvl'lops, if acaden1ics gain in importancc, thL' class will be hetll'r abk to help creall' a more genuine intellcdualcommunify." 
one who could handle the job ot editor better than Guy. I won't be missed." 

Both men commented on Tim's resignation, and their 
future  plans  on  handling  the  
newspaper.  
Guy  DcSapio  said,  "I  

sincerely regret the fact that Tim had to resign his position. We've worked together for dose to two years and I'm going to miss him. I hope to make the Observer the kind of paper we both envisioned it could be when we started out together. He has made the decision he feels is best for him and I will support him wholeheartedly. 
DeSapio also expressed the hope that O'Melia would continue to work for the paper. 
"I expect Tim to still be helping us out in many areas. lie's very talented and the Observer needs the experience and depth he can add to the paper." 
Don Holliday also expressed his regrets, and went on to comment on the changes in organization that took place. 

"I'm sorry to sec Tim resign but I respect his decision. As for the organizationa] changes they arc based entirely on looking towards the future. The basic 
change is that instead of my assuming the role of editor-in-chief, we feel it is best to re-organize and reduce the work load. Therefore by becoming publisher I assume all responsibility that the editor-in-chief would have but l feel it is best for the Observer and the position of publisher to appoint one man whose total concern is that of the actual content of the newspaper. I have 
full confidence in Guy and 
would like to emphasize the jobs 
are not mutually exclusive. We 
will continue to work together 
in the best interests of the 
Obsen•er," he said. 
When asked if the changeover 
meant any shift in the basic 
policy of the paper, both men 
replied in the negative. 
DcSapio remarked, "I don't 
expect editorial policy to change 
much. I hope that it will be 
progressive and intcllectual and 
dedicated to the best interests of 
t7-Je Notre Dame-St. Mary's 
community. We hope to 
continue to improve the image 
of the Observer by making it a 
reasonable and responsible organ 
for communication." 
Both men pledged to "work 
on the editorial policy to 
broaden its perspective." 

Within two weeks Holliday and DeSapio will finish making new appointments to the editorial staff and solidify those positions which they have now. They plan to expand SMC coverage, which has been neglected in the past, in order to make the Observer a true NO-SMC community newspaper. Holliday and DeSapio bring a wealth of experience to their jobs. Holliday, now a senior has been with the paper since his sophomore year. At various times he has held the positions of: layout editor, associate editor, managing editor, and most recently executive editor. 
DeSapio started out as a reporter in his freshman year, and was promoted to news editor at the close of his frosh year. Last spring he was elected to the SLC' as a representative from the north quad. 

Policy statement 
Starting with today's edition there will be an 
adttlinistrative change in The Observer office. Tim O'Meilia, Editor-in-Chief has resigned his position. By agreement the office of Editor-in-Chief will be 
eliminated as of today. The responsibilities of the office 
will  be  carried  on  through  the  establishment  of  two  
positions: that of  Editor and Publisher.  
Don  Holliday,  the paper's executive editor will  now  

become publisher. The final responsibility for operation and content of the paper will rest with him. The Observer's new editor will be Guy De Sapio. He will handle the editorial and news obligations of the paper. 
The change in The Observer is totally administrative. The paper will still strive to provide the most accurate and immediate reporting of what's happening at Notre Dame. 
Editorially, we hope to continue to present intelligent comments on the situation here at Notre Dame. We hope to continue to be leaders for progress and change. 
Donald C. Holliday Publisher 
Gaetano De Sapio Editor 
The Ohsc'ITI'I" will be published only three times this week: Wednesday and Friday, in addition to today. Daily publication will resume Monday, Sept. 22. 
THE OBSERVER. MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1969
PAGE 2 

New biology build • IS under construction



1ng • 
(;rounll was broken this sum mer .for the construction of a new biology section of the University's Life Science Center. 
The I03,000 square feet, three story structure will he built next Lobund Laboratory on the Southeast corner of campus between the stadium and the Library. Lobund Laboratory, which is part of the Life Science Center was built in I(>'6 7 and is used for the study of b a dcriology and animal control. 
The new building will have basement and three floors. The basement and first floor will contain instructional areas and specialized laboratories while floors two and three will have controlled environment facilities where manipulation of temperature, light and humidity will enable researchers to study 
organisms  under  a  variety  
conditions.  
The  Nieuwland  llcrharium  

and (;rcen llerburium will he moved to the new building, along with a Loological collection room. Notre Dame's widely known Mosquito (;cnetics Project will also movL' to the new building, where unusual wind doors will keep errant mosquitoes where they belong. 
Other special features include a special suite for electron microscopy, sterilization and wash rooms, walk-in cold rooms, 

LIFE 8CIENCB CBNTB.R · UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA. 
an aquarium, and radio isotopesfaculty offices and research labs laboratories for tracing work. A

for faculty and grad students. A Announce 
3,000 square foot library is alsototal of 30 faculty members are 

Senior Bar Cards on sale
included in the building. 

procedure
involved in the two departments Research in the life sciences at 

of biology and microbiology. The Fighting Irish will face
Notre Dame can be grouped in

There are about 80 graduate five opponents at Notre Dame
the following areas: genetics and 
Tuesday 1-8 p.m.

students and another 80 stadium this season, beginning
developmental biology;

undergraduades. The new with Northwestern this
environmental biology and

facility will replace the Saturday, followed by Michigan
stematics; physiology; radiation

overcrowded Wenninger-Kirsch State (October 4 ), Southern
biology; medical parasitology, 
Tom Dooley Room

Biology Building, built in 19 3 7 California (October 18), Navy
and microbiology.

and now slated for remodeling (November 1) and Air Force
Contracts for the building

to house the department of (November 22). 
totaled $3,673,690. Major

psychology. Notre Dame students may
contractors are Fred Black 

The air-conditioned facility piclc up their tickets to home


Construction Co., and Morse will contain the latest teaching football games this week.
Electric Co. Architects for the 

equipment. Among its Tickets will be issued at Gate 14
project are Ellerbe Architects, of St. Paul, Minn. 

innovative features will be a of the stadium. Each student must present the Athletic Certification card that will be 


ANew Leather

given to him at registration. Seniors may pick up their
Report fewer thefts 
There was a large amount theft of $1 ,000 worth of camera 

tickets on Tuesday between 
of theft and vandalism on equipment from the 
2:30 and 6:30, juniors and 

for Fashion

campus during spring break last Architecture Building. Since 
graduate students on Wednesday 
year. However, this trend there was no sign of forcible 
between 8:30 and 4:30,
apparently did not continue into entry, security has theorized 
sophomores on Thursday
the summer. that the thieves must have had 
between 8:00 and 2:00,
Chief of Security Arthur Pears keys to the locked offices from 

freshmen on Thursday between 
stated that, on the whole, which the equipment was taken. 
2:30 and 6:30. 
"vandalism was at a minimum Father-Ernest Bartell, during the summer months and 





however, experienced a more thefts were at a minimum." 
serious loss. Phonographic 

NEWS MEETING 
Noting that there were very equipment, a tape player, a 
MONDAY SEPT. 15 

few students on campus this clock and clothing valued 
5 P.M. FOR LAST 

summer, Pears then added, "You upwards of $360 were taken can draw your own from Father's room early_ in the 
YEAR'S STAFF 
...by _l)!lf!~
summer. Be that as it may, the biggest crime this past summer was the 

conclusions." 
ROTC opposed 
(Continued from page 1) 
ROTC, after having been formally excluded from being an official part of orientation as was the case in previous years, can look to pressure from students and the Student Life Council as the cause. 

Father McCarragher, Vice-President for Student Affairs, and Dean Burke, Head of the Freshmen Year, made the final decision not to list the ROTC in the orientation THE MOST EXCITING 
phamphlet. GATHERING OF INTERNATIONAllY
Phil McKenna, Student Body 
ACCLAIMED Cl RCUS
President, suggested the idea to 
PERFORMERS IN THE
Father McCarragher and stated 
99 YEAR HISTORY OF 
his reasons for doing so. "I do 

THE GREATEST SHOW not think any activity of the ON EARTH!!! 
university should automatically 

STUDENT REDUCTION SAVE 
be granted special mention 

$1.00 ON TUES. & WED.
during orientation." Doing so, 
fashion leather that complements

4:15PM SHOWS ONLY
the university would be 
the lighter tans and olives of today's colorful styles.
"implicitly gtv!llg its 

TICKETS ON SALE AT: 
Distinctive. Contemporary. A MUST for the coordi­
endorsement for the ROTC 

ATHLETIC & CONVOCATION CENTER 
nated wardrobe. British Tan ... by Douglas.
program." 

9-5 DAILY INCLUDING NOON HOUR 
Father McCarragher commented, "The attitude of ALL SEATS RESERVED the students and the Student ALL LOWER ARENA------·-$4.50 Tickets will also be o~ sale 
CHECKS WELCDr.,E WITH I.D. 

Life Council" was the deciding UPPER ARENA (SIDE)------$3.50 ~~ 1~at~~a t ~~ 1~a~~g ;~ factor. 
UPPER ARENA END -------dates of show. BECKER'S r.1EN'S SHOES 
NO & SMC St. Louis residents The Observer is published Subscriptions may be purchased daily during the college semester for $8 from the Observer, Box 11,
send name, address, phone num­
BECKER'S I\1EN'S SHOES

except vacations by the students Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second ber to 330 Holy Cross for mail­of the University of Notre Dame Class postage paid, Notre Dame, 
108 S, MICH. ST. 

and St. Mary's College. Ind., 46556 .
ing list. 



\ Star l..,ight 

"-,~ .............................~....~~· 
J, h'lirhar, hom under the sil{ll Taurus (the mighty bull) and h_a•_'ing hri//iant/1• .I'Url'il'cd three years in these not so aUS/ll<'/OllS 
will 11011', in u (it o.f' mystic generosity reach into tht· realm o( the occult and ll'ith ha11d poised to .fl1rrowcd brow offer 1'011 star-il{norant .fi·eshman a fJortt'llt .f(Jr tllninK your lil'es in 'twrmnnv with the hcal't'/1.\' that rule Notre /)amc. 
f.t't ;ne 1hrow caution to the wind. and crummy ad1•ice to the nail'l'. l'ou might el'l'/1 rt•./(•rfo these as stellar lifJS. 
surr01111 ji11gs. 
Monday, Sept. I 5 
Today...A time of intense torpor will slowly sci in. Futile to resist., so why try? Most of the l..'harls arc against you, as well as the administration, the professors, and the St. Mary's girls. lkwarc of false prophets appearing in navy-blue garmcn ts. They arc more See trapeze utist Mary GiU and friends at the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus this Tuesday interested in shooting stars than studying them. Also beware shaggy and Wednesday in the Athletic and Convocation Center. and bearded seers (wearing (;ilbcrt's sccr-sul..'kcr suits) who will preach with golden-tongues and arouse the idealistic passions stirring
• within you. They arc mere dreamers, worthless star-gazers. Don't sign anything. Don't believe any sign that says "You arc
Ninety take part 1n NDLC 
here". Don't trust anyone not thirty. Wear lecvics and ND sweatshirts and white tennies. Current radiations from the heavens 
from ND and SMC were invited closed was led around the
!loping to teach that "people indicate that Venus is rising in the sky and that nuclear fall-out is arc people and not tools," the to attend. Fifty St. Mary's and grounds and through buildings descending.40 Notre Oamc students on campus hy a partner.
Student Union sponsored a Pray that the next generation of college kids will be able to work responded. St udcnt Union Following the walk, the
Lt·adershi p Conference Tuesday. their way out of the incrcdihlc mess we have made of things. He 
participants discussed the
Comptroller J. Fit~.simmons was feelings of total dependence and
Wt·dnesday and Thursday of last thankful the voting age is still 21. Learn gow to drink beer (in hig 
week. chairman of the conference frothy masculine gulps), and where the easy bars arc. Find out what 
total responsibility.
Ninety Notre Dame and St. committee. the "holline" is, and the social implications of "the circle". 
Another experiment had
Mary's students part icipatcd in The con Ference leaders uscri Memorize the words "gross" and "horny". Buy a ND pennant and six sessions geared to create various experiments in human scssio n members assembling learn to bluff the words of the fight song. Forget about girls and people-sensitive leaders. Sessions behavior to teach the lessons of colored blocks, first using four remember that you arc now part of an international revolution were conducted in the Center responsibility, trust and group dedicated to the overthrow of the "establishment." Write a letter
blocks and working individually, for Continuing Education hy the interaction. Some experiments then using all the blocks and home to your parents asking them "to try to understand." Nation;;! Training Laboratories , required partners and working as a group. This Mid west Croup for lluman participants were asked to experiment was intended to 
The Year Under Your Sign

Rt:sourccs. The Student Union choose someone they had never portray the effects of 
employed NTL to conduct the met so that they would be cooperative action within a -Aries(Mar. 21 to Apr. 19) 
-Cancer (June 22 to July 21)

conference after informing the continually meeting and group. 
You arc a bland, tasteless (;ivc up smoking. 
organi~.ation what the aims of experiencing new people. In The conference provided one 
individual, mimicking the vogue
one experiment, the "trust

the conference would be. of the first opportunities for 
One hundred-twenty students walk," one student with his eyes 
Tonight! 
FREE FOLK CONCERT 8 P.M. 
Student Center Frosh who wish to perform come at 7 p.m. 


Craj'tsmcn in Optics 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGI.ASSES AND CONTACT LENS£S MICHIGAN ST.--CEntral 2·1461
132 S

THE SHERLAN D BLDG ... · 


M~ln Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.--Chicaqo 


NOTICE 
Thq office of Teacher Preparation ts now located in Room I I I 0 Fast in the Memorial 
Library. 
Eugene A. Campanall' Associate Director Office of Teacher Preparation 
2X3-X562 

and repeating the popular. To -Leo (July 22 to Aug. 21)close co-ed cooperation between 
find acceptance surround With your inquisitive, probingSMC and ND. The girls in the 
yourself with those of like mind you arc an ideal l..'andidatc conference were housed in 
temperament-i.e. join the Social for the student senate. You Keenan and all participants ate 
Commission. Don't worry about might even find out why we together in the north dining hall. 
extra spending money, surprise have one. The men and women brought 
revenues should be corning yourd i ffcrent approaches to the way. 
-Virgo (Aug. 22 to Sept. 22)

conference. 
"(;o back, go back, go back

-Taurus (April 20 to May 20)
"The boys wanted to discuss across the road."
issues while we were more Be discreet, read only the best interested in how to make the 
magazines and journals. Laugh 
-Jocko (Sept. 23 to Oct. 22) 

group function," observed sarcastically when the word 
If the only blocks you can't Marilyn Riedy of SMC's 
Observer is mentioned. Laugh 
surmount arc mental ones go sec Academic Assembly. 
exuberantly when the word 
a man named Ara-why studySt. Mary's students came to 
"Ehrhar" is mentioned, it helps 
the star~ he will make you one. the conference with a buill in 
the pain go away. edge, as they had participated in -Scorpio (Oct. 23 to Nov. 21) a similar meeting of their own -Gemini (May 21 to June 21) The comfy weh-likc trappings the previous weekend and had If your taste in women of the Student Union should already progressed from concurs with Aries you should appeal to the insidious among discussing individual issues to enjoy the "heavenly bodies" you. Some even claim the llnion developing cooperation within over at S ... I can't go through Office is hugged. any group. with this line. -Sagittarius (Nov. 22 to Dec. 21) Sec Capricorn. 
-Capricorn (Dec. 22 to Jan. 20) Sec Sagittarius . . . (like 
SIT

P\ZZA HUl 
running around in Blue Circles). 
IN 
-Aquarius (Jan. 21 to Feb. 19) 
I'd like to suggest that you run for student government, hut we have none. 
-Pisces (Feb. 20 to March 20) 

Keep a watchful eye on the floundering administration. EAT IN ••. OR CARl? )'-OUr Charts indicate that everything is 
going to Pisces.
ANY SMAll
ANY LARGE 

******************* PIZZA PIZZA I Notre Dame gained the fewest yards passing ever against Iowa in 1949, minus 7 yards.
$1 .50 $1.00 ~ 
Monday &Tuesday 5Til 9P.M. 
NEED A PHONE? 

AT EITHER 

PIZZ.t\ HUT 
Indiana Bell Rusiness Office 

NUMBER l NU,'-t.BfR 2 
availahlc on 2nd floor of 

Across The Just 1 Mile East 
Admin. Bldg. MonJay and 

River From IU of Notre Dame Out Ed 
Tuesday (during Registration) 288-6060 233-3827 


MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1969
THE OBSERVER
PAGE 4 




College football centennial-preview 

Many will assume that picking keeping the swelled heads down. schedule. the No. I team in this college Rex Kern is back to fool 
From Dixie there's work that
football's centennial year is defenders and TV cameramen 

the South will rise again after
easy-Ohio State. But picking the alike with his faking and Jack 

two seasons of intersectionalNational Baseball League Tatum spearheads a rugged beating. Georgia and TennesseeEastern Division winner was defense. 
head the list of Southeasternsupposed to be just as easy--the If there's money on any team 
Conference hopefuls and
St. Louis Cardinals. to go undefeated this year, that Mississippi and Bear Bryant'sEven with everyone and the team has got to be Penn State. 

crew at Alabama look ready towater-boy back from lasy year's Not only docs Joe Paterno have regain southern prestige.
powerhouse, coach Woody an exceptional defensive squad, 
In the Southwest, Texas andHayes faces the tough job of but he has a wonderfully weak 

Johnson, Glasson top sophs 
In an article written tor depression. State. Receivers: Bob Moore, Associated Press (which I read in The best young receiver looks Oregon (can high jump 6-7): the Syracuse Ilerald-Amcrican), like Clyde 'Sonic Boom' Terry Beasley, Auburn: and Van 
Bob Hoohing previewed the Glasson, a JC transfer down at Brounson, Nebraska. finest sophomores and junior UT-El Paso. At 6-0, 170 lbs., Defense: Rich Searle, Duke college transfers waiting to Sonic Boom does the 40 in 4.3 (says coach Tom Harp, 'If we debut this fall. Chief among and the hundred in 9.3. had two more like him, we the newcomers is Greg 'Grape Other top running prospects wouldn't need anybody else.'): Juice' Johnson, a 6-1, I90 lb. include: Jim Bertelson, Texas; Luther Gentry (6-7, 280 lbs.), halfback from Wisconsin. He is John Musso and Jesse Causey, Prairie View; and Joe Ehrmann, expected to provide the running Alabama; Ron Bell, Oklahoma; Syracuse. necessary to lift the Badgers out Glenn Doughty, Michigan, and Facing the Fighting Irish for of their recent rid iron Ron 'Po' James, New Mexico the first time this year will be 
Jimmy Jones, from Harrisburg, Pennsylvania and currently 
,fighting for USC's quarterback job; Ralph Cindrich. a Pitt linebacker who is the Eastern heavyweight wrestling champ: Brad Bournt.: Ill, a defensive end who has Georgia T~.:d] fans running out of supnlativcs. and Jim Nicholson, 6-7, 270 lb. tight end, another Hawaiian come to play for Duffy Daugherty at Michigan State. 
Heisman open 
Writing in the New York Times' sports page (I ht.: country's finest. in my opinion). (;ordon S. White. jr. claims that no one is JT<JIIy a solid elwin· for the Heisnwnn Trophy this year. The situation is so open that a lineman ~_·ould become Iht· third of h1s kind (others: Larry Kl'iley. Yale 193(l end: Leon Hart, Notre D<Jme I')4') end) to win tht· award. White sees l't•nn State defensive tackle Mike Reid as the top lineman with lr1shn1an \'like McCoy not far behind. 
Tht' offense usually provides th~.· winner, though, and Oki<Jhoma tailback SIL'Vt' Ow~.:ns may he the onL'. Chuck Hixson takes a run at the <~ward although only a junior, while <Jnothn quarterback. Mike Phipps, triL·s for Purdue. 
White lists several midwest hopefuls, among them Rex Kern, Jim Otis. and Jack Tatum from Ohio St<Jte, Harry Gonso from Indiana, <Jnd ND's Joe Theismann. 
If Joe Theismann is lost through an injury. it may be a long, tough season for the Irish. 




THE OBSERVER 
NEEDS PHOTOGRAPHERS AND CARTOONISTS 

Arbnsas will have it out for the best in the West. Stanford may conference title. h<Jve the best signal-caller in tbe Finally off probation, Houston country in Jim Plunkett, and should roll to another fine Arizona State the best runner in season even without Paul Art Malone (1,431 yards, 16 Gipson. Junior quartcrpack TO's last year). Chuck Hixson will wear out alot The place most chock full of of air for SMU, if only the talented teams is the Midwest. 
Mustangs can find someone to Ohio State will have to fight off catch. Purdue (with Mike Phipps), 
No one is crying for John Michigan State, and Indiana for 

McKay at USC. Jimmy Jones the Big Ten crown. In the Big 
may be the one to replace Steve Eight, it looks like a dog-fight 
Sogge and there is plenty of between Oklahoma (with Super 
experience on defense. Even Steve Owens), Missouri, Kansas, 
without OJ., Southern Cal is the and Colorado. 
••••••••••••••••••••1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

By Mike Pavlin, sports editor 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Miscellany 
I'm not really that partial to goes back to I X76 and contains the AFI., and after the Jet-Colt record for I 0,000 players. Each .affair I was gleefully tossed into batter merits 17 columns of the showns, but I must admit statistics and each pitcher 19. 
that I got a little choked up a Written by computer, the few weeks ago when Oakland Encyclopedia took a year and a cut Cotton Davidson. Maybe h<Jif to program and seven hours 
that's I he real sign that a league to print. It sells for $25.00. has some of age, nostalgia * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * Davidson was one of the first The Amnican Broadcasting qu<Jrtcrhack stars for the infant Comp<~ny has one ND football league, along with Jark Kemp, game listed among its st:heduled John lladl, George Blanda, and TV programs this fall. On Nov. Frank Tripuka (my favorite with I 5. ABC plans to air the the Denver Broncos). I also read I rish-Ccorgia Tech night ·time where I'aul Lowe's come-back battle from Atlanta, Ccorgia. had been balked by an injury. * * * * * * * * * * * ** * * * * NCAA rules changes this year
Fluid and shifty, Lowe was the (;ale Sayers of his time. The 
arc mainly fringe differences. Cleats can he no longer than

other star hacks of the time arc 3/4" and anyone who tosses a
also gone: Ahner li<Jynes, football into the stands (or
Charley Tolar (the human bounces it wildly on the turf)
howling hall), and bad-boy Cookie (;ilchrist (for some good instead of handing it to the ref stories <Jhout Cookie's younger 
after a touchdown will mnit a d<Jys in I'it tshurgh gel ahold of I5-yard penalty for his te<Jm 
on SCIIOLASTIC Sports l~d. Tnry 
the cnq11ng kickoff. And O'Neil). The receiving ranks arc Roughing-the-Kickl'f penalties 
now minus Elbert (Colden will be called until the punter Wheels) Dubenion and Lionel has completely regained his Taylor, the finest rc~.·eivcr 111 bala nee after the punt. league history with the possible * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
exception of Lance Alworth and 
Former Irish football captainDon Maynard. 
and Pittsb11rgh Stecler runningSome people long for the days 

back Bob "Rm·ky" Hleicr was of the old Mets. I'd rather sec 
seriously wounded in VietNam Tripuka-to-Taylor than 
this fall. ~'l••icr suffered several Nam<Jth-to-Maynard. 
wounds 111 hot h legs and his * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * c<Jreer as " runner is doubtful. For the fan who has everything, the best gift is the 
Bleier ,lid, however, send a letter new Baseball to Stcelcr owner Art Rooney
Encyclopedia. Within its 2,337 pages arc 
wishing the team good luck and crammed everything and 
saying that he would he fully anything about everybody. It recovered. 

WE OFFER ADVENTURE, TRAVEL, EXCITEMENT, MONEY, AND OTHER BENEFITS. 
INTERESTED? 
Contact Phil Bosco Box I I The Observer 
Observer collage by Phil Bosco 






