

both sides. Both Soviet and Communist Chinese armies are reported the Board of Trustees has judicial board. Hall parietal debate of the SLC conccrnin~ to maintain regimental strength at 3,000 men. approved the expansion of close­hours will not go into effect parietal hours centered on stu· 
The clash Saturday was the second in two weeks between Soviet ly regulated visitation privileges until the hall has complied with dent willingness to enforce the and Chinese forces at the island, which the Chinese call Chen Pao. It for women from the current 11 the organizational requirements restrictions. Massey said that he is located in the middle of a wandering river that serves as the border weekends a year to all weekends and has been approved by the was sure the SLC would "kill the between Russia and Chinese Manchuria, and both sides claim it. on an experimental basis. Hall Life Board. Richard Rossie idea" if the restrictions were not 
The committee called for a said that "there is no reason why followed.Commander says • action' denied reorganization of residence hall all the halls cannot be approved Rossie said that the legislation government, including a written by the Hall Life Board by Thurs­was "a major step forward in 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-A former U.S. Pacific commander indi­constitution, a hall president, a day or Friday." view of the hangups that people 
cated to congressional investigators yesterday he was denied per­in high places here have of sex.
hall legislative council, and a 
Emphasis was placed by
mission to take "positive action" to recover the spy ship Pueblo The phobia that people have of
hall judicial board. Hall parietal 
Richard Rossie and Prof. Jamesafter it was escorted into North Korean territorial waters. 
hours will not go into effect natural visits between women
Massey, a member of the Stu­
But retired Adm. Ulysses S. Grant Sharp refused to go into and men grow o~t of an archaic
until the hall has complied with 
dent Life Council, on the experi­
further detail at a public hearing by a House Armed Services view of sex. In the long run J can
the organizational requirements 
mental nature of the legislation.
subcommittee. He insisted on telling the rest of his story in a closed and has been approved by the forsee an extension of parietal
Richard Rossie said that
executive session. hours:"
Hall Life Board. Richard Rossie 
"StU<.It:nts must demonstrate
"Did you initiate a request to take positive action?': asked Student Body President elect
said that "there is no reason why 
responsibility and ability tosubcommittee counsel Frank Slatinshek. 
all t~e halls cannot be approved Phill McKenna said that the pari­
operate under this system. Stu­
"Yes," replied Sharp, quickly adding that any elaboration would etals legislation was "a step for­
by the Hall Life Board by Thurs­
dents better realize that the legi­
have to be secret. day or Friday." ward but not forward enough. I
slation passed by the Trustees is would rather have seen parietalThe Executive Committee only experimental, and that if
British prepare for island Invasion hours passed trhough the indivi­
ratified the Student Life Coun­students don't comply to the d ua I halls, independent ofLONDON (UPI) -British paratroopers and Scotland Yard police cil's proposals for a reorg~niza­restrictions, they will find out in Father I Iesburgh and the Board!lssembled under conditions of secrecy yesterday night for what tion of the residence hall,govern­May that the SLC has voted out of Trustees. Also, the role of theappeared to be an invasion of Anguilla, the rebellious Caribbean ments, including a written con-parietal hours. 
rector should have been expan­island British officials have said is dominated by U.S. gangsters. stitution, a hall president, a hall Profesror James Massey ded and redefined." 
Busloads of more than I00 paratroopers left their headquarters ncar Aldershot for an undisclosed destination. More than 40 
Commissions merger possible
policemen left Scotland Yard under the same circumstances. The 
units were believed headed for the Royal Air Force base at Lineham Student Academic Commis­be up to the present officers of Prior to this meeting, misun• where transport planes were standing by for a trans-Atlantic hop. 
sioner, John Mroz, announce!l the two Academic Commissions. derstandings developed ·6et'*en 
In St. Thomas, V.I., Addie Ottley, station manager of station 
last night plans for a possible Mroz stated that "it will be up the two Academic Commissions WSTA there, said he toured the tiny island 170 miles due east of 
merger between the Notre Dame to the new Academic Commis­over the joint sponsorship of Puerto Rico last weekend and found the populace of 6 000 and Saint Mary's Academic sion to negotiate on the merger, lectures and special academicpeaceable but ready to resist. ' 
Commissions. while the present commission events. At the beginning of the Mroz and associate commis­will act only as advisors. It will year, Mroz and Davis made an
Reveal American air losses in Viet sioner, Tito Trevino, met with informal agreement concerning
then have to be approved by the 
SAIGON (UPI)-American air armadas pounding Communist Sally Davis, Saint Mary's Aca­Union Board of Directors." publicity in these joint sponsor­supply routes in Laos in hundreds of raids daily have lost at least demic Commissioner, yesterday ships. This agreement called for I00 planes to ground fire since the bombing of North Vietnam was to draw up a formal plan for At Saint Mary's, "The deci­the Saint Mary's Academic Com­stopped Nov. I, U.S. sources said yesterday. future negotiations concerning sion for the merger," Davis said, mission to pay the Student 
The sources said the U.S. air raids in Laos, msotly along the "Ho this possible merger. Trevino "will be made by the Next Aca­Union Academic Commission Chi Minh" supply trail winding into South Vietnam, have been stated, "The top five officials of demic Activities Chairman, the $500 per quarter for co-sponsor­about as intense as they were against North Vietnam. Saint Mary's Academic Com­Student Assembly, and the Cabi­ship of academic events. Davis' 
The Laos attacks are never formally reported by the U.S. mission and the Student Union net of the President of the Stu­commission paid the first $5 00, Command but the sources said they have averaged from 300 to 400 Academic Commission will meet dent Body. I think, however, but then refused to give the rest daily. Laos is nominally neutral. April 18. Before this meeting, that the whole possibility of of the money because of what 
however, both commissions will merger will be a most complex they considered lack of publi­
UP! learned that the U.S. aircraft losses have ranged from multi-million dollar fighter bombers to light reconnaissance planes. draw up a series of proposals thing, entailing a restructure of city. AnotJ1er informal agree­
In ground fighting in South Vietnam yesterday, Communist which will cvenutally form the both commissions and then mak­ment between Mroz and Davis 
basis of next year's Academic ing this merged commission a was established cancelling the
troops struck at outposts on the northern approaches to Saigon. Spokesmen said the raids killed I 0 American soldiers and wounded Commission." separate entity from the Student payment of the remaining 
The decision to merge will not
15. Communist losses were placed at 42 killed. Government of either college." $1,500. 
THE WORLD TODAY 
Hayakawa,Nixon confer on disorders 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-The acting president of San Francisco State College, hard hit by student disorders, said after an hour at the White House yesterday that President Nixon favors leaving campus disruptions to local authorities, but that federal education aid should be denied convicted campus agitators. 
Dr. S.l. llayakawa and the President talked about the turbulent situation at San Francisco State as Nixon was preparing a statement on the wave of campus disruptions. 
Delta plane victim of 2nd hijacking 
ATLANTA (UPI) A Delta Air Lines jetliner carrying 64 persons on a multi-stop flight from Dallas to Charleston, S.C., was hijacked and ordered to Cuba yesterday night the second hijacking of the day. 
Capt. Ron Wassenberg was preparing his DC 9 for landing 20 miles from Augusta, Ga., when he radioed that "I have a gentleman on hoard who wants to go to Havana." 
The airliner landed without incident in Havana at 8:29pm EST. There was no immediate indication when it would return with the other passengers. 
It was the 13th hijacking of a U.S. commercial plane this year and the first since March 5. Earlier Monday, two young men ordered a Peruvian Faucett Airlinesjet to Cuba-but let its 71 other passengers get off during a refueling stop in Ecuador. 

Soviets, Red China continue clashes 
MOSCOW (UPI) Both the Soviet Union and Communist China committed 3,000 man regiments to the latest fighting over a border island, various reports disclosed yesterday. It was also revealed that a Soviet army colonel and at least one other officer have been killed in the fighting. 
The government newspaper, Izvestia, said Col. D. V. Leovov wa~ in command of Soviet forces battling the Chinese Saturday until hf was killed hy "a bullet that pierced his heart." Earlier, the official news agency Tass reported that an army lieutenant had been killed. 
Izvestia said Lt. Col. Yevgeny Yanshin assumed command after Leonov's death and held Demansky Island in the frozen Ussuri River against waves of attacking Chinese, who were described elsewhere as fighting at regimental strength. 
The rank of the commanders showed the Russians also had put a full regiment of border guards and reserves into the battle, which apparently involved 6,000 troops as well as armour and artillery on 
E 



OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dtlme Md St. MJJTV 'i Collqe Community 
VOL-Ill, NO. 103 TUESDAY, MARCH 18, 1969 

----· 

No longer wiD St. Mary's girls or hometown honies be forced to sit on the grass for entertainment. Instead, when the new parietal hours go into effect, they can sit on the chair in your room from 5 to 12 Friday, 1 to .... or you could live off-campus 
At Trustees meeting 
Parietals approved 
The executive committee of legislative council, and a hall pointed out that much of the 



PAGE 2 TUESDAY MARCH 18 1969
THE OBSERVER 
Brooks to open Black Arts Festival tonight 
Gwendolyn Brooks, Pulitzer Prize winning poet and poet laureate of the State of Illinois, will be the first speaker in the literature and fine arts section of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame's stu­dent-sponsored Black Arts Fes­tival. 
Miss Brooks, who currently teaches at Northwestern Uni­versity and has won several awards for her verse, will speak tonight at 8 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. 
A jazz concert by the As­sociation for the Advancement of Creative Musicians is sche­duled for Wednesday at 8 p.m. with a tentative location of the Center for Continuing Edu­cation. 
A nother black poet, Roy Hill of Kansas State University, will speak Thursday at 3 p.m. in the Center for Continuing 

went to complete the set and I got a bra and a pair of panties." Another big winner was the proud laddie who was per­fuming the air with the sweet scented panties he had obtained. 
The raid began on the North Quad and the burgeoning group of participants rose as the Main Quad was canvassed for volun­teers. The police made their ini­tial appearance on the road but only succeeded in stampeding the large group toward Saint Mary's. 
Once into SMC territory and
ISSUE~~~----~?~~~~~~~ 

with a wild shriek amid Irish fight songs the raiders launched themselves at Holy Cross. When o only a few panties and other 
On sale Wednesday 

Dining halls, pay-cafe 
assorted articles of clothing were forthcoming, the target of their

Huddle, and bookstore 
desires turned to LeMans. 
graphy. Included in the presentation 
Lerone Bennett, Senior edi­will be dramatist Val Gray, tor of Ebony magazine, will poet Eugene Perkins, autl1or speak at 8 p.m. Thursday in Sigemond Wimbeli, and editor 
the Center for Continuing Edu­David Lloren. cation. A visiting professor of LeRoi Jones, a controversial
Afro-American studies at 
black nationalist,. will end theNorthwestern University, Ben­weeklong series with an 8 p.m.
nett is the author of several books, including Before the talk Sunday (March 23) in Mayflower, Black Power 
U.S.A., and What Manner of Man, a biography of the late 

Are you experienced 1 
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Artist Jeff Donaldson from St. Patty's Day 1969 at NotreNorthwestern University whose Dame ended with a bigger cele­exhibit on "Black Experience bration than it was ushered inand Struggle" will be in the by as approximately five hun­basement of the Center for dred male students, veterans and Continuing Educ!ition, vi'Ul dis­rookies alike, opened the springcuss the exhibit at 8 p.m. Fri­panty raid season last night. 
day in the Memorial Library The benevolent patron saintAuditorium. 
of Ireland graced a few luckySaturday a combination of Irishmen as one person reported,readings and dramatic skits en­"Last year I got a stocking and atitled "Black Voices" will be pair of pettipants. This year I Washington Hall co-sponsored by the Black Arts Festival and the Sophomore Literary Festi­val. Jones, a poet, playwright, novelist and essayist, has ar­gued for rejection of the cul­ture of white American and called for a black culture built on an African heritage. 
The lectures are open to the 
The girls were far more recep­girls and the obscenities in re­tive at LeMans and the charge turn by the boys were on aended there. Various sortees small scale, but the unsports­were made to outlying buildings manlike conduct of some of thebut everyone struck out there. 
girls such as throwing water andThe raiders broke up into smal­hard objects and the breaking ofler groups to cover as much area windows by the boys pointedof LeMans as possible and when­out the relative lack of exper­ever an oasis was found there ience on both sides. But, thewas an immediate surge in that experience of participants is suredirection. 

to rise if the words of oneThe ragged edges of the initial person come true, "We'll havespring panty raid were evident at another one before Easter."

LeMans. The usual taunts by the 

Management Cont. speakers announced 
Henry S. Schumer, deputy torium under the sponsorship assistant commissioner for ad­of the Notre Dame departmentministration at the national of economics, in cooperationheadquarters of the Social with the Notre Dame Law Security Administration, Balti­
School, Unions, Management more, Md., will be one of the 
and Saint Mary's College.principal speakers during the 
He will speak on "Trend. ii1Notre Dame-St. Mary's 17th Social Security Coverage" at

Annual Union-Management 
the conference's II: 20 a.m

Conference April II, it was session.
announced toda/ by the Rev. 
Over 500 registrants are ex­Mark J. Fitzgerald, professor pected to attend the annualof economics and director of conference as representatives o'the conference. 

Management and Unions in tr.

The sessions will be held in Midwest.
Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Audi-public, but there is an admis­sion charge of $1 for students and $2 for non-students to the jazz concert. Several other black artists will be on campus during the week and available to individual students in Room 2E of the LaFortune Student Center. 
STUDENT UNION SOCIAL C.OMMIS'S toN 
PRES~NTS 
A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the RUM MORRIS CIVIC 

Fri. Mar. 21 

TUESDAY, MARCH 18, 1969 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 
Kay Markle Grants total over $3/4 million 
'Deferred gratification' A total of $762,538 was versity's nuclear physics team County Cancer Society for a received by the University of of Drs. Cornelius P. Browne, predoctoral fellowship in 
Sociologists term the life of a college student that of "deferred Notre Dame in February for Paul R. Chagnon, Sperry E. cancer research under Dr. gratification," for in order to get an education, we have decided to researc~1, equipment, and edu-Darden, Walter C. Miller, and Morris Pollard, professor ol put off enjoying all the things that high-school dropouts, draftees ·cational programs, according to A. Andre Rollefson. 
microbiology, and Dr. Albert and 20-year-old married couples with two children are enjoying right a report issued today by Dr. -$21,361 from the U.S. A. Nordin, assistant professor now. But while students are willing to defer gratification-sometimes Frederick D. Rossini, vice Army Research Office for the of microbiology. 
-$;!.508 from Research Cor­indefinitely-they can be pushed too far, asked not only to defer but president for research and study of "chemistry and con­poratiOn for research on "self­to accept outright anguish. An impartial sampling of anguished sponsored programs. formation of I ,3-dithiane and sustaining dipole discharge in astudents provided the following list of things Included in the total was I ,3 diazane derivatives" by Dr. 

transverse magnetic field" bywhich go beyond deferrment and into the realm $592,989 from the U.S. Office Ernest L. Eliel, professor of Dr. Nguyen T. Dzoanh, assoc­of numbed acceptance: of Education for the construe-chemistry. 

iate professor of electrical en-The recent proliferation of mimeographed let­tion of the biology section of -$20,500 from the National gineering.

ters to the student bodies of NO and SMC. It the University's Life Science Institutes of Health (NIH) for -$3,000 from the Air Forcehints, some people believe, at a mistrust­Center and a second equip-the study of "intestinal trans­for study of "free turbulent-possibly even an active dislike-harbored by ment grant of $1,000 to the port in axenic animals" by Dr. 
si)ear flows" by Dr. Victor W.

the administrations of these schools for those department of mechanical Tomoaki Asano, associate pro­Nee, assistant professor of who study there. Father McGrath's commun­engineering from the Trane fessor of microbiology. 
mechanical engineering.

ication of March IOth deserves special mention. Company. -$8,750 from the Alfred P. 
-$2,400 from the Army for Although St. Mary's College has not had a Research awards were as Sloan Foundation for a res­"wind tunnel testing of Mon­demonstration once, not even as far back as the follows: earch fellowship for Dr. 

mouth aerovance type wind oldest nun can remember, this does not at all detract from the vigor, -$75,000 from the Office Gerhard Binsch, assistant pro­sensor" under the direction of

of Naval Research for nuclear fessor of chemistry.
immediacy and originality of Father McGrath's statement. One can 
Dr. John Nicolaides. only hope that the Academic Affairs Council did not sit up until the structure research by the Uni--$5,000 from the Marion wee hours of the morning formulating it. All they actually had to do was run across the road and pick up the ditto sheets Father 
Entries open in literary contest 
llesburgh had typed up a few wee~s ago. ···································•··············· Professor Donald P. literary subject. Class paoers or Each student is asked to submitThe suggestion that the Student Body President and Student Costello, Director of papers from Special Studies no more than six poems, with aBody Vice-President at SMC be given either a stipend or academic Undcrgraduat Studies in English, cr>urses are eligible." A second total not to exceed 200 lines."
credit for their "eight-hour-a-day" job, which no one asked them to announced that the department award is,"The Mitchell A ward of The instructions specify thattake, keep or work at for eight hours a day. is accepting entries for the $50.00 which goes to the "All entries must be typed,The weekly campus showing of eleven movies, ten of which were annual undergraduate literary undereraduate who submits the identified by author's name andterrible when first run in theaters and have not improved with time. prizes. best original play (one act or submitted in three copies toPeople who have large calendars tacked to their walls on which There are three separate longer)." The last is "The Room 309 O'Shaughnessy no every night they ritualistically cross off one more day until Easter. awards. "The Meehan Medal is Samuel Hazo Award of $50.00 
later than April 17, 1969.

Class meetings at St. Mary's. This can be modified to particularly awarded to the senior who which goes to the student who include junior class meetings at St. Mary's during which such submits the best essay on a submits outstanding poetry. 



subjects as off-campus housing, senior exemptions from finals and comps are all passed off quickly in order to get to the real business of the day: the organization of a football team. 


IS THIS YOU
Comps. The Dome's hysterically insistent ads that tomorrow i& the 
! am opposed to the Viet Nam War (and any such war that is not based.o• the defense of our absolutely and unequivocally last day this year to get your senior 
country). Please send me application to the Ministry of your church, as well as information as to pictures taken. 
its ~eliefs and membership throughout the world. Buttons reading, "Kiss Me, I'm Irish." 
It is my understanding that if I am accepted to the ministry of your church, I can not If somebody could clear up even a few of these things, a lot of 
conscientiously participate in any military involvement not directly concerned with the defense of pr.ople would be very grateful and we could all move onward, 
our country or its possessions. I further understand that training will not interfere with my normal waiting for Easter, deferring our gratitication and thinking of the 
work or academic schedule, and I can choose my own location of service to God and humanity. jay when we'll be making $30,000 a year and all of this will, in 
Enclosed is $1.00 to cover clerical expenses and cost of mailing. NAME........................................................................................... AGE ............................................. . 
retrospect, seem worth it. 

ADDRESS ....................................................................................................................................... . 
Going South fol' Easter? 
CITY ...................................................................... ST AJ"E................................. ZIP ........................ . Mail entire ad to: Church of the Humanitarian God; P.O. Box 13236; St. Petersburg, FloridaVolunteer Worker for NAACP 33733. 
HAMPTON COUNTY 
Applications now 
Voter Registration & Poverty Survey 

being accepted for
Meeting: Contact:
All Invited Tuesday Pete Mcinerny 289-1669 
Mar. 18 Mark Kearns 289·1669 
All Union positions
OR

4th Floor LaFortune Nancy Mund 284-4565 
Following Cabinet positions 



Your Psychology 
Human Affairs Student Life

professor lives 
Academic Affairs


with his mother? 
Judicial Coordinator 
NSA Coordinator Off-Campus Commissioner 
Phil McKenna
Think it over, overcoffee. 



Mail to--­
c/o Student Govt. Office

TheThink Drink. 
Box 522 Deadline---Thurs. March 20, 1969 12 noon 
For your own Think Drink Mull, send 75C and your name and address to: Think Drink Mug, Dept. N, P.O. Box 559, New York, N.Y. 10046. Th~ lntP.rnatlonal Coffee Organization. 
interviews to be held Thurs. night 

PAGE4 THE OBSERVER TUESDAY, MARCH 18, 1969 
By TERRY O'NEIL 
Observer Sports Editor 

It is unquestionably true that Notre Dame's Irishmen did their best fighting last night in taverns and bars-where the sport was born and nurtured. 
Sadly, nine of Erin's sons were subjected to society's con­ventions while scrapping in the Convo Center-i.e., a referee, 12-ounce gloves, ring ropes, three 'rounds of two minutes each. The restrictions were too much. Eight of the nine were defeated. 
That was the big story of last night's quarter-finals in the 38th annual Bengal Bouts. The semis are slated tomorrow and the finals Friday. 
12_5 POUNDS 

Compactly-built Ralph Bianco and rangy Jack Griffin, both juniors, made it to the semifinals by decision. 
Bianco survived an action­
crammed third round with 
Alumni Hall sophomore Charlie 
Fabian to gain a split verdict. 
Referee John Horan had it 29-28 
for Fabian while arbiters Jim 
Gilstrap and Mike DeCicco like 
Bianco by margins of 30-28 and 
23-20, respectively. 
Griffin dominated his bout 
with freshman Tom Sweeney 
and scored a third-round knock­
down en route to a unanimous 
decision. Sweeney took a nine 
count. 
In Wednesday's semifinal, Bi­
anco battles defending champion 
Ed Ferrer while Griffin takes on 
Bill Golden. 
135 POUNDS 

Tom Kress, a sophomofe from Fayetteville, N.Y., earned the right to face defending champ and heavy favorite Paul Partyka Wednesday. 
Kress battled junior Tom Gould on nearly even terms through the first two and a half rounds, then spurted for a unani­mous-decision victory. 
145 POUNDS 

Claudio Cerulli, a junior from Chicago Heights, Ill., registered the tourney's first knockout by blasting out a second-round TKO over Jim Smith, a junior from Northbrook, Ill. 
Cerulli gained a berth oppo­site Gary Canori Wednesday while Munhall, Pa., sophomore Simon Kovalik decisioned Wayne Tauber to earn a shot at Tom Suddes, last year's runner­upatl45. 
Cerulli hit Smith with a big flurry early in the second round, sagging him into the ropes for a nine count. Smith told referee George Vanderheyden, "I'm okay," but moments later, at :40 of the round, Smith was down again and Vanderheyden stopped the bout. 
Kovalik, a smooth boxer with little power but slick combina­tions, got unanimous consent from the judges over Tauber, a late substitute for flu-ridden junior Dave O'Donovan. 
150 POUNDS 

In a division loaded with talent, three close matches pro­duced a trio of split-decisions. 
Val Bernabo, Aaron Baker and Jim Hansen grabbed the narrow verdicts. Bernabo vies 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Restricted Irish beaten •1n Bengals 
with veteran title-holder Bob 155 POUNDS Kelly with a straight overhand McGrath while Baker goes a­Chris Miller, a sophomore left and had him down for an gainst Hansen Wednesday. from St. Petersburg, Fla., and eight count within a minute of Bernabo, a well-tanned sopho­Steve Silva, a freshman from the opening bell. He obtained a 
more from Miami, Fla., was a­Rapid City, S.D., gained the unanimous verdict. head 30-27 on Gilstrap's card final four. Miller faces Kent Snediker, a senior from Edina, and 29-28 on Horan's chart. Casey and Silva battles Dave Minn., bloodied junior Tom 
DeCicco liked senior Bob Bat­Pemberton tomorrow. Dolack and had a big third taglia, 24-23. Miller knocked down fellow round to grab a split-decision.Lefty Joc Judge, an off­-Floridian Mike McNicholas Servant and Ken McCandless, campus senior from Bayshore, (Pompano Beach) mid way in the a couple lean Alumni Hall resi­N.Y., fought a very smart fight second round and continued on dents, hooked up in a scientific for two and a half rounds under for a unanimous decision tri­duel. Servant's extensive road­the tutelage of last year's heavy­umph. work paid off in a unanimous weight king Chuck Landolfi, a Silva pleased a large Morrissey victory. second in Judge's corner. But Hall cheering section with his sophomore ~aker, a Cleveland split decision win over Dillon 175 POUNDS product, tagged Jud~e with a freshman Kevin Kerrigan. Freshman football quarter­solid right midway tlirough the back Bill Etter, supported by
160 POUNDS
final session and came on strong halfback Bob Minnix in his cor­for the decision. Baker was on Breen-Phillips sophomore ner, garnered a tight, yet unani­top 29-28 according to Horan Tom Wagoner punished gutty mous, decision over Bill O'Brien, while DeCicco awarded it to senior John Kurtz to a unani­a junior from Lynn, Mass. Mean­mous decision. Kurtz took a
Judge 23-22. Gilstrap scored the while, John McGrath, a cousin 
bundle of punches, but still was
firsst two rounds even, then gave of !50-pounder Bob, salvaged
swinging at the end. Wagoner
Baker a plus in the third setto. some Irish pride by gaining the In the 150 nightcap, Hansen meets Jed Ervin, the 1968 Box­judges' favor over senior Tom ing Club MVP and last year's
knocked off Houston sopho­Loftus. 
155-pound kingpin. Fred Deboe
more Jim Lusk. Hansen nearly Etter takes his hit-and-tun tac­
and Hal Smith, both of whom
passed the Bengals this year in tics into the ting tomorrow a­
drew byes last night, meet in
favor of the Four-1 wrestling gainst reigning champ Tom 
tomorrow's other semifinal.
tournament, which was staged Breen. McGrath hopes to em­Saturday in Miami, Ohio. 165 POUNDS ploy his long reach successfully 
Last week he separated the Powerful southpaw Dan against Bob Larson. shoulder of fellow-grappler Mike Johndrow served notice to top-Duell in practice, then decided seeded Joe Murray that he will 185 POUNDS to skip the Four-I and grab a be ready for their semifinal slug-North Massapequa, N.Y., pair of 12-ounce gloves. Hansen fest tomorrow. In the other junior Joe Renice, showing good gained a 30-27 nod from Horan semi, Dave Snediker and Chris speed despite his portly build, and a 24-22 verdict from De-Servant, a pair of victors in last fought in flurries and decisioned Cicco. Lusk was ahead on Gil-night's quarter-finals, square off. Pat Egger, a frosh from North strap's ticket, 30-29. Johndrow smoked soph Dave Hollywood, Calif. Renice meets 
"1111111.111111111111111111111111111111111111.IIIli1111111111111Ulllllllllll'l.lllllllllll111111111111111111 



Tony Kluka while Jack Pierce faces Matt Connelly in the semis tomorrow. 
HEAVYWEIGHT 
Two big right hands by Cava­naugh Hall's Bill Gaul flattened Alumni's Fran Donovan and merited the former a technical knock out at 1:40 of the second round. 
The initial two minutes were uneventful, but Gaul's first right sent Donovan down for eight counts and, less than 15 seconds later, his second big punch end­ed the fight. 
Gaul's next assignment will be much tougher-mustachioed de­fending champion Chuck Lan­dolfi. In the opposite bracket, Hank Meyer, recently recovered from a foot injury, jousts with Denny Allan, who was beaten by Landolfi in the 1968 heavey­weight finals. 
0. J. wants to go west 
INDIANAPOLIS (UPI)-' Heisman Trophy Winner O.J. Simpson said Monday he prefers to be traded by Buffalo to a West Coast club unless he gets a "fair" deal from the American Football League entry. 
The Southern California star 
halfback, the Bills' No. 1 draft 
choice, said negotiations with 
Buffalo owner Ralph Wilson 
may be resumed later this week. 
Simpson, who stopped here between personal appearances, said he actually preferred to play in the National Football League on the West Coast because San Francisco is his home. 
"I would prefer playing the west," he said, but added tha if he does not get the contract he wants, he may play Canadian football or in the Continental League, a minor pro football circuit. 
Simpson did not spell out specifically the terms he seeks in a pro contract. He said specifics have not been discussed with the Bills-only what he believes he is worth to the team. 
"I'd like to sign a contract as soon as possible because I want to settle down soon," he said. ''I'm quite happy to got to Buffalo, but only if I get a contract I think is fair." 
Despite some other business possibilities, including the movie industry, Simpson said he would much rather sign a contract to play professional football, a sport in which he made a name for himself as the country's No. 1 collegiate star. 
Torre traded to St. l..ouis 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. (UPI)­Joe Torre was a very happy man today. The Atlanta Braves catch­er first baseman almost became a New York Met, but instead wound up with the National League champions, the St. Louis Cardinals. 
Torre, who had been waging a salary war with Atlanta presi­dent Bill Bartholomay, and a personal war with General Man­ager Paul Richards, goes to the Cardinals in an even swap for St. Louis' first baseman Orlando Cepeda, and Joe has no trepida­tion about his ability to play first, rather than catch. 

TAMPA, Fla. (UPI) -They talk and write about democracy at work, but it's about time they came up with some place you can see it. 
This is the place. The Cincinnati Reds' training camp. They really show you democracy at work here. 
The lowest guy on the totem pole drives a much fancier and more expensive car than the top banana. The boy drawing down the most bread here, better than $85,000 worth, gets around in something you can't even find in junkyards anymore. 
You've heard of how home run hitters always wind up driving Cadillacs, haven't you? 
Meet Pete Rose. He hits singles. He drives a no longer factory guaranteed 1934 Ford. That's right, a 1934 Ford. But don't go feeling sorry for him. This isn't one of those ordinary, garden variety 1934 Fords. This one has two or three little extras. Like sterophonic sound and a brand new rose pleated interior. Like nine separate coats of lacquer and magnesfll.11 wheels. 
"You o ughta see it," says Rose. "It's something every kid wants when he's 18 or 19." 
Pete Rose is 26, no matter what Tommy Helms says, but he's a kid at heart although he's also the major league batting champ, highest salaried player in Cincinnati history and best all around performer in baseball today. 
Rose once said he wanted to be the first $100,000 singles hitter and he'II undoubtedly make it soon. He doesn't flaunt his salary but isn't as secretive or sensitive about it as most ballplayers. 
"Why should I be?" he says, eyes flashing. "They say you should never mention your salary. I'm not ashamed of mine. I worked my whellbase off to get what I did so why shouldn't I be proud of it? I am. Damn proud." 
This is Pete's seventh season with the Reds and simply to make him feel right at home, they're asking him to play another position for them. Center field. Being asked to switch is nothing new for him. He broke in at second base with the Reds and then was moved to third base, left field and right field where all he did last year was rack up 20 assists while waiting for a chance to grab a bat. 
He was a menace to society every time he had one in his hands. His .335 batting average during a year when guys were congratulating themselves for hitting .250 was one thing. Something else was the fact he smashed out five hits in a game twice, four hits seven times and three hits 13 times. 
When it was all over, Rose finished second in the MVP balloti.ng to Bob Gibson, the Cardinals' flamethrower. That didn't distress him but what did was a newspaper headline which said he felt he should've gotten the award, not Gibson. Rose still gets upset when he talks about it. 
"I said as far as I was concerned I couldn't think of a better fellow to finish second to than Gibson. I meant it then and I mean it now. Some ball players feel a pitcher shouldn't be eligible for the MVP award because they have the Cy Young award. I disagree. I think if a pitcher is good enough, and Gibson and Denny McClain both were, he should win it." 
Rose attended a couple of winter banquets at which Gibson also was present but didn't mention the newspaper story which disturbed him or try to apologise for it. 
"I feel funny," he says. "Anyway, I'm pretty sure Gibson knows I never said anything like that. It didn't even sound like me. I've never knocked another player in my life." 
Now this year's MVP award is something altogether different. 
"I'd love to win it," Pete Rose says. Any ballplayer would because he knows it stamps him as the best in his chosen profession for that particular year." 
Rose winning it would make some picture at that. Imagine the National League's MVP for 1969 driving around in a 1934 Ford? 
Greenish gold yet. 






