
Moratorium Day protests spreading 
by Cliff Wintrode 
College support for the Viet will toll to commemorate the 
Nam War Moratorium on Octo­war dead and vigils are planned
ber 15 is mushrooming into a at draft boards and induction 
massive nationwide indictment centers. A mass rally may draw 
of our presence in Vietnam. invited speakers Caretta King, 
The National Moratorium Dr. Spock, and Wayne Morse. 
Committee has enlisted the aid Embattled president S.I. 
of over seven hundred campuses 
Hayakawa of San Fransisco to mobilize antiwar sentiment in State, decided not to accept 
a the nation with strongest s~p­request by the faculty union to 
port located in the northeast and suspend classes October 15 so 
on the west coast. that "the entire college com­
The call for a "stoppage of munity can actively participate 
business as usual" has brought in the antiwar action planned for 
many different responses on the that day." 
campuses, but anti-war rallies Columbia's governing senate 
complete with speakers, a can­authorized students and faculty
vassing of university and com­to join in the Moratorium "with­
munity for support, and a out penalty and prejudice" and 
memorial mass in the evening arc 
issued a call for the immediate found on almost every program 
withdrawal of all U.S. troopsof Moratorium activities. 
from Viet Nam. Mason Gross, President of 
Cornell, with new presidentRutgers. made one of the strong­Dale Corson, the choice of stud­est endorsements of the mora­ents and faculty, left it up to torium in calling for campus individual professors whether to observance of a "day of critical 

hold classes. Republican Senator 
reflection" and giving his full this sort of protest upon mem­
Charles Goodell, who introduced 
support for cancellation of bers of the University who may
a bill in the Senate calling for 
classes. Rutgers is a New Jersey feel very differently."
the removal of all Viet troops by 
state school. Georgetown's new president,
December of 1970, will speak at 
The opposite view on the Father Robert Henle, has expres­
a peace rally. 
Moratorium was taken by the sed a favorable attitude toward
"Under the circumstances,"

chancellor of the California setting aside classes and having
said Harvard dean Franklin
state-college system, Glenn teach-ins on the war. He will also 
Ford, "the fairest position for 
Dumke, who sent a letter to all relay a student petition's antiwar 
any of us to take is to treat this 
state college presidents pro­views to the White House, but he
like a religious holiday which 
hibiting them from supporting falls on a day when the uni­feels the university itself "must the Moratorium. remain neutral."
versity is open, a matter of 
individual conscience." 
In addition, he ordered them Not all classes at the Uni­to take "formal disciplinary pro­versity of Chicago have been
Princeton President Robert Gohen said he endorsed the
ceedings" against professors who cancelled but individual offices cancel classes for the day. Moratorium and viewed student and departments will close, and Despite this ban, Berkeley and faculty participation "en­some professors have cancelled 
tirely understandable and ap­
sympathizers are mobilizing sup­class. Be5ides an afternoon port from a wide portion of the propriate." march and rally, a nighttime political spectrum. Church hells But, "It does not seem to me teach-in is planned. 
Dellinger speaks at CCE 
war with a very fuzzy idea of should be brought back and
by Mary Davey 
how to end it," Dellinger said. Vietnam left to handle its own 
"The whole upsurge in the He added that he was very much affairs. antiwar movement is in favor of the teach-ins and Several times during his talk representative of the revulsion of various educational aspects of Dellinger voiced objections to the American people," stated the Moritorium including the the tendency to do away with Chicago defendant David possibility for rational discussion free speech and to put down Dellinger, last night at the with both sides equally opposers with vulgar speech or Center for Continuing represented. mannerisms by individuals of Education. Dellinger objected to the both sides of the issue 
Dellenger, Chairman of the contented attitude of some However, he indicated this did 
National Mobilization people involved in the antiwar not make him favorable toward 
Committee, stated the Vietnam movement caused by the the American system within 
Moritorium is a "fantastic thing" probable ending of the war which he feels "democracy is 
but he expressed the reservation within three years. made into allusion and sham 
that many are involved in it who "Vietnam will not surrender because of the power of the 
haven't honestly arrived at a any of its rights...it is cruel and military complex." 
personal conviction but merely inhuman of the antiwar He continued,"The US police 
are a part of the movement movement to expect them to state makes the sincere young 
because it is the "thing to do." make concessions because the people's only recourse violent 
Feeling a possible danger of U.S. is ready to do so/' he said. acion." He added that "the the Moritorium is that "people Dellinger received applause on blood willing to be shed must be are behind the idea of ending the his contention that our army your own, not that of your enemies or opponents." He contended that it was necessary for an individual to get
Candle-light walk by students 
directly and concretely involved in all aspects of the 
An impromptu peace walk last night by an estimated 225 
anti-establishment movement. 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's students constituted on of the first 
He said that "civil 

acts of student involvement on campus in the Vietnam 
disobedience is necessary." He 
Moratorium. The students, attending a vigil service in Sacred 
advocated draft resistance and 
military personnel to refuse to
Heart Church, walked to the Grotto and each took a lighted 
commit war crimes. Dellinger is presently on trial 
candle whi£:h they ca"ied while moving through the campus 
and singing folk songs. The students eventually proceeded 
in Chicago for supposed
back to the Grotto, left their candles, and returned to their 
violations during the '68
ViKil. 
Democratic Convention. 

This was ttie scene last night in Sacred Heart Church at the beginning of the night vigil for peace. The participants later took part in a candle-light procession. (Details below) 
right to force participation in 

would -be thieves flee 
already walking away from the 
Three Notre Dame students Negro, ran to the intersection of were assaulted, and one student Michigan Ave and St. Mary's was shot last Friday night on Road, and summoned an Indiana St. Mary's road. State policeman directing traffic 
Freshman William Workman at the corner. No one noticed of Flanner Hall was shot with a the direction in which the b-b pellet in the back of the assailants had gone, and they head as he and three other Flan­escaped. ner residents were walking to St. 
Workman received a small cut Mary's. 
in the scalp when he was hit by
The incident occurred shortly the pellet. The gun was a Daisyafter I 0 p.m. near the old carbon dioxide pistol which uses cemetery on St. Mary's Road. As compressed gas to propel a small 
the four studetns came into the pellet. Workman said at the light of a streetlamp, they were scene that he was not injurr approached by three persons seriously and did not wish to b 
approximately 18 or 19. taken to the infirmary. 
The assailants, one Negro and "No robbery actually took two Caucasians, stopped Work­place, but all the elements were man and the other students and present," said Arthur Peers, started a short conversation Notre Dame Director of Sec­about being at St. Mary's. urity. 
After a few moments, one of Campus security police are the youths, described as a tall investigating the incident, and 
Negro with an Afro-American t h e students i n v o I v e d haircut, pulled out a pistol and believe that they can identify pointed it into the air. their assailant. 
"Do you know what this is? I "I think I can identify the can put your eye out with this,"' Negro, but the others were not said the assailant. standing under the light and I He then ordered the students· didn't get a good look at them," 
to throw down their wallets. said Workman. "You must be kidding," ''I'm sorry that it was anyone, answered Workman, as he and but I hope it wasn't a student," the others continued to walk 
said Pears. "We know that a lot toward St. Mary's. of people park in the Jot at 
The two white youths who Fatima, and we had some were standing nearby tried to problems last year with calm the Negro. "Come on man, non-students." let's go," they said. The other Notre Dame 
Before the students had gone students involved in the attempt­30 feet, the Negro lowered the ed robbery were Alfred pistol and shot Workman in the Stawicki, Rushing Smith, and back of the head. Richard Verbanc, all freshmen, 
The four students, who were and all of Flanner Hall. 

Study Help starts seventh year; afternoon and night sessions held 
Neighborhood Study Help is of tutoring one night a week, the starting its seventh year. During program has branched into four the week of October 27th to segments: three running in the October 30th, 600 Notre Dame afternoon and one at night. and St. Mary's students will be­Pamphlets explaining the four gin tutoring throughout the areas and containing an applica­South Bend area. Frustrated by tion blank will be put under the complication of last year's every door on both campuses 
program, Study Help has desig­Thursday night. Off-campus stu­nated 1969 as a year of testing, dents can get forms in the OC evaluating, and building. Instead office or by calling 7974. 
THE OBSERfi£R. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15,1969
PAGE 2 

OP£NI 
One Da v Service 
NO EXTRA CHARGE 
Cleaning and Shirts 
410 N. Michigan Street Next to-MGDonafd's 


Moratorium Day observed nationwide 
WASHINGTON (UPI)­Organizers of the Vietnam Moratorium Committee predicted on the eve of today's antiwar protest that President Nixon would respond by stepping up U.S. troop withdrawals from the war zone. 
INTERESTED? 
TEXAS CLUB 
presents 
A POOR MAN'S TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS $55! 
9 G · I3 IrS and Guys are going 
"Tomorrow's demonstrations will show the President that a broad section of the people is asking him for a firm 
commitment  to  withdraw  all  
American  forces  starting  
now,"said  Sam  Brown,  a  

national coordinator of the group sponsoring the nationwide protest. 
"The people will be saying 'We want out' and I don't think it's possible for the President to ignore the voice of the people. Speaking briefly Tuesday at a White House ceremony, Nixon insisted he was trying to end the war as soon as possible. 
Support for the protest, which has been endorsed by many congressmen and prominent Americans, "clearly e xpe eta tions," acknowledged' Brown. "Its scope confirms that antiwar sentiment has grown immenselysincePresidentNixon took office." 
But Brown, a divinity student on leave from Harvard, cautioned that the real success of the protest will depend on how the President responds to it, not on how many people turn out today. 
Student Action 

Today's moratorium on the 
Vietnam war is expected to spur 
thousands of students in the 
nation's colleges and universities 
to participate in many different 
ways. 

Students are expected to hold 
marches, speeches .. rallies and 
draft card destruction at some 
----------------------------L_e_x_c_e_e....:d....:s:.._--=.o...::u:..:r:._~g::.r:_e:..:.a..:.t..:.e.:s..:.t_.:c::::am~puses. Absences from classes 
If you want to split we'll go 60/40 with you 



TIM COLLINS 
TWA's Campus Representative. 
Tim Collins 
as TWA's campus representative will 'put it in writing. On a TWA Youth Fare Card that lets you fly all over the continental United States at 40% off on a stand-by basis. 
And that's not all we'll do for you. 
We'll give you an expert's advice on where to find any kind of fun and games you're game for. And help you save a bundle in the bargain. 
We'll even go all out to organize a group flight for you. 
Add to this how happy our people will make you, going all out to give great service. And that's what we call a bargain. 
TWA 
Our peoplemakeyou happy. We.make them happy. 
were being excused by most school administrations which were doing so without taking a stand on the moratorium. 
Supporters and opponents of the Vietnam moratorium cautioned Tuesday against outbreaks of violence as thousands of Americans geared for a nationwide round of demonstartions against the war. 
Antiwar students at San Francisco State College planted more than 1 ,000 wooden crosses in the lawn of the campus common to symbolize California deaths in Vietnam. Other protesters began a two day vigil outside the home of California Gov. Ronald Reagan in 
Sacramento and shifted later .. 
to the steps of the state cap­
itol. 

Students of Seaton Hill and 
St. Vincent C o 1 I e g e s in Pennsylvania held a "f~ik mass," peace rally and teach in. 
In Washington, focal point of the demonstrations, events were scheduled to begin a 7 a.m. on nearby college campuses, continue throughout the day and culminate with a mass rally on the Washington Monument grounds followed by a march to the White House. 
North Viet Reaction PARIS (UPI) -North Viet­namese Premier Pham Van Dong, whose regime is banking on U.S. public pressure to force Washington into accepting Hanoi's negotiating demands, acclaimed the Vietnam mora­torium day in an open letter Tuesday to the American people. Tp.e Nixon Administration­speaking through Vice-President Spiro T. Agnew--urged the leaders of the moratorium to repudiate North Vietnamese Premier Pham Van Dong's sup­port for their demonstrations. The moratorium leaders promptly refused and said it was "regrettable that the admini stration would seize this straw in an attempt to discredit the patriotism of those millions of Americans who sincerely desire peace." 
Javits-Pell Resolution 

WASHINGTON-Two senators Tuesday proposed repeal of the Tonkin Gulf resolution under which the United States committed a half million men to the Vietnam War and called for withdrawal of all 
U.S. combat troops by the end of 1970. 
Sen. Jacob K. Javits, R. N.Y., who said "the moment of truth with the Saigon government has arrived," introduced a resolution to this effect with co-author· Sen. Claiborne Pell, D. R.I. Both are members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 
The J a vi ts-Pell resolution would rescind the authority Congress gave the President in 1964 to take whatever steps he deemed necessary to resist aggression in Vietnam. After Dec. 31, 1970, the President would have no congressional authority to conduct combat operations but provision for assistance, training and supply of South Vietnamese forces would remain. 
11he Observer Is publlsllecl dlllfY during the college semester except 1 vautlons by tne students of t... University of Notre Dameand st. Mary's College. SubsCriptions may · be purchased for $8 frem The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Da""Jnd. 46556. • 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1969 7118 OBSERVER 
PAGE 3 


Joe Weimhoff being congratulated by Vice-President Spiro Agnew. 

ND Junior partici~ates in Executive Intern Program 
by Ken Muth 
Joseph Wemhoff, a junior Fi­nance major at Notre Dame, spent this last summer serving as an Executive Intern in Washing­ton D.C. He was one of seventy five such interns in the first year of the program initiated by the Nixon administration. The in­terns were chosen from 16,000 eligible college students from throughout the nation. The bases for selection were: scores on the Civil Service Summer Employment Exam, grade point average, extracurricular activi­ties, and recommendations. Joe, who has a G.P.A. of 4.00, is president of the Finance Club, a member of A.I.E.S.E.C., the Business College Council, Stu­dent Business Review, and alter­nate Executive Secretary of the Student Life Council. In addi­tion, he holds a part-time job at St. Joseph Bank. The program, which began on June 30, was to last eight weeks but Wemhoff remained an extra two weeks until September 4th. Bud Wil­kenson, Special Consultant to the President, was the White House coordinator for the intern program and was, in a large part, responsible for its existance. 
The aims of the program were to bring outstanding college stu­dents to the capital to be ex­posed to government in conjunc­tion with the Nixon administra­tion's willingness to establish a better rapport with colleg:e-a.ge students. When asked if the pro­gram was indeed successful, Wemhoff responded, "In a large part, yes." 
The interns were assigned to the various cabinet departments and agencies for the actual work experience. Wemhoff worked in the Office of International Eco­nomic Activities of the United States Treasury Department. His' job entailed research on trade barriers and international taxa­tion and consequent preparation of memorandum. He termed his work, " ...enjoyable" and " ... challenging and very worth­
while." 
During the course of the sum­mer Joe and the other interns met all the cabinet secretaries. 

T · d d f
he mterns atten e con er­ences at which each of the twelve secretaries spoke and were allowed to question them 

afterwards. Joe ~cls that all the ~~~--------~-~~~-----~~-~~-~-----~------4 
secretaries are very high caliber 
men. Joe also met Senators Mansfield, Bayh, and Percy, and 
various members of the House of Representatives and Vice-Presi­
dent Agnew. The interns attend­
•ed the President's White House reception for West German Chancellor Kiesinger. 
The social highlight of the summer for the interns was their cruise on the Presidential Yacht on a Friday night and being quests of Patricia Nixon, and Julie and David Eisenhower at the White House for dinner, a 
AlA attacks priorities 
Joining a growing number of people across the country, 35 members of the student chapter of The American Institute of Architects have signed a petition calling " ...upon the President and the Congress to assume responsibility for a comprehensive reexamination and a reordering of our national priorities, recognizing that we have neither unlimited wealth nor wisdom, and that we cannot sensibly hope to instruct other nations in the paths they should follow when we are increasingly unable to demonstrate that we know how to maintain a viable society at home." 
The petition goes on asking for a " . wholehearted commitment of will and money that will enable us to apply the skills needed to erase the shame of urban America." 
The student chapter of the AlA did not officially endorse the statement, but rather left it up to each individual member. The statement is an exact replica of the one approved by the AlA convention in Chicago last summer. 
ID photos ready 
Most of the I.D. photos taken at the time of registration are now ready. 
New off-campus students (gra­duates or undergraduates) and all students who had photos taken to replace lost cards must pick up their I.D. cards in the Office of the Dean of Students, Room 3 21 Main Building. Hours: 9:00-11:30 a.m. and 2:00-4:30 p.m. Temporary I.D.'s must be brought to obtain permanent one. 
movie, .1nd aancing the next night. According to Joe, "That weekend has to be my most memorable social event." 
While in Washington, Joe re­sided in a dormitory at George­town University. His fondest memories are of busing into town every day-, " ... strap-hang­ing into town every morning ­keeping in touch with the aver­age Washingtorian." 
Joe's own appraisal of his summer's experiences are best summed up in some of the clos­ing words from his evaluation of the intern program; "Before going to Washington this sum­mer, I chanced to read Stewart Alsop's book, The Center, which described his fascination with the 'movers and shakers' of poli­tical Washington. After ten weeks at 'The Center', 1, too have come to share this fascina­tion." 


Joyner aids minorities 
rtru~tom 1Leatb~r ~ 0ob~ 
~ ~ \!!51 
~

:mab t0 0ur ®rb 
~ ~r 
~ ~ 
'anbalJ 



belt' 


• antiqu~.s
"Just !bout" euerptbing tn 

jt\uelrp

tbi' pitturt is for salt at: 
JLeatber JLtb. 118 ~outb :main ~treet 
Lemuel M. Joyner, assistant professor of art at Saint Mary's College, has been named special assistant to the president for in­ter-cultural development by Msgr. John J. McGrath, college president. 
In his new position, Mr. Joyner has responsibility for ac­ademic, social and individual programs for black students and other ethnic minorities. This in-e I udes areas of admissions, scholarships, academic work load, and tutoring. He has a!­ready drawn up a long-range pro­
gram with very specific goals and with clear-cut plans for the im­plementation of these goals. One facet of the program in­volves a "family adoption" plan through which local black families have been invited to take an active interest in the black students at the College. Mr. Joyner would like to see the "adoption" idea gradually ex­tended to include a broad cross­section of South Bend citizens and Saint Mary's students. Joyner is concerned primarily with the satisfaction of the In­tellectual and personal needs of the individual students and with the development of programs de­signed to increase knowledge of an respect for the cultural heritage of various ethnic groups. This semester he in­augurated a three-credit seminar, Creative Soul. A native of Nashville, Ten­nessee, Lemuel Joyner received his B.F.A. and M.F.A. from the University of Notre Dame. Be­fore joining Saint Mary's faculty four years ago, he was an artist­designer for St. Christopher's Workshop in Breman, Indian~, which designs and manufactures church furnishings. He is a member of the Na­
-----·-· 
Complete Stereo component sys­tems. Buy yours at ­
Lafayette Radio Electronics 731 South Michigan South Bend, Indiana 

tiona! Council of Artists (a black artists' association) and was re­presented in an exhibit at the Council's annual meeting at Lincoln University, Lincoln, Missouri, last April. One of his paintings has been selected to appear in the anthology Shades in Black. soon to be published. 
At Saint Mary's, Mr. Joyner also acts as advisor to the As­sociation of Black Collegiate Wo­men whose president, Paula Dawning (a junior at St. Mary's), is a graduate of Central High School. 
~.-,..,_--.__
___,.~~-----, 
Charlie's 








STEREO TAPES 
8 TRACK 
List$6.98 
Charlie's Price 
$5.88 
H.A.R.L:J:E's 
• ,, li • U li ~I~ Pi I 'o 
OPEN DAILY 9 to6~ 
SAT. I LIIL .. 5 p.lll. 

PH. 287-7218 
774 Llncolit 'flay East 
~-------­





r---­
~  PAGE 4  THE O&rERIIIIt  
~  
f f f f  THE OBSERVER  
An Independent Student Newspaper  
DONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Publisher  GA-ETANO DE SAPIO, Editor  

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3 1966 
Vietnam 
Across America today, thousands, quite possibly millions of Americans will be giving up business as usual to express their dissatisfaction with the war in Vietnam. No one is willing to foster an estimate of how many people will be participating--for the scope of the Moratorium has been a hard thing to judge, as will be its imoact. 
Throughout America students will be leaving their classes, workmen their jobs, and city and state officials their administrative positions to express somehow the uneasy emotions, and indeed in many instances, angry emotions which they have over the war. 
There will be mothers who have lost sons or who have sons there fighting. There will be citizens who feel that the war is immoral or indeed that all war is immoral. There will be those who believe that it is a tremendous waste of American life and a squandering of money that could be better used to eradicate the social evils at home. 
They will be people with feelings-true human feelings about the insanity of war. Americans who want America out of the war in Vietnam. To those feelings we could add very little. We affirm our belief, however, that it is time for America to get out of Vietnam. 
It is not time for the President to call for unity behind his Vietnam policy, for as far as we can ascertain that policy exists of the hollow broad generalization which promises to bring Americans home as soon as the South Vietnamese are ready to replace them. Such a policy suggests that we are not really there fighting for a principle-.:.such as freedom. If we 
are fighting for that principle, to combat an immoral enemy who seeks to impose slavery 
upon an unsuspecting people, we should be fighting all out. Our posture has been: "We 
seek no military solution to the war in Vietnam." 
America is seeking a political solution to the war we are told. We feel Americans should be answering back-you don't play politics with people's lives. -No matter how the President tries to convince himself and the world that a political settlement can be found to the war, we believe he is sorely mistaken. Surely if the South Vietnamese believe that they are fighting for freedom they will not settle for a government of co-operation with the Viet Cong. Considering the vehement opposition that the Viet Cong have shown toward the Thieu and Ky government we can hardly see where they are prepared to stop at anything less than the destruction of a government which they believe to be oppressive and undemocratic. 
If a political solution could be reached at Paris, one would have to ignore history altogether in order to delude himself into believing that the settlement will last for long. Just six short years ago, a coalition government was established in Laos. Last week, Souvana Phouma was in America pleading for American assistance against the communists. 
Three months ago, the Laotian leader was getting help from the Soviets in the form of 
arms and equipment. One wonders whether such leaders are truly fighting for freerlom or 
fighting for funds. 

Without a doubt, the American spirit of freedom and the belief of the use of "might for the sake of right" has been bled for all that it is worth throughout the world. 
We could stand no more tirnuy committed to the use of American prestige, effort, 
wealth, and military might for the defense of freedom throughout the world. But the 
picture throughout all of South East Asia does not clearly show which governments are 
fighting for freedom and "liberation" and which are fighting to suppress people under 
simiiar banners. 

Is the Thieu government which imprisons critics any more free then than its "enemy" which kills theirs? It is not an easy question. But think, if it were a totally satisfactory alternative to the Communists, wouldn't America be fighting for a military victory in Vietnam? 
Two weeks ago, President Thieu stated that American withdrawals could be stepped up if the US supplied his country with additional funds, military equipruent, and other logistical support. We say give it to him and pull our troops out of Vietnam. Give the Vietnam War l)ack to the Vietnamese. Let the Vietnamese people fight for their freedom if it is precious enough to them. If they need our money and military advice to combat Soviet and Chinese support for the other side then in the name of justice let us not deny it. 
But let us take American troops out of Vietnam. Let the Vietnamese die for their 
freedom instead of Americans. Let them kill their fellow countrymen instead of us--ir' 
that's what they believe is necessary. 
Without the presence of American troops to cloud the picture and trigger emotions both sides will realize more clearly the tragic toll the war is exacting on their country. If their is any decent leadership at all in Vietnam it will then see to it that a political settlement is reached for the sake of the Vietnamese people. 
Da\.tid Breen, Business Manager Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. News Editof: Glenn Corso Copy Editor: David Stauffer Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode Ann Conway, Laura Haferd, Jean~e Sweeney, Prudence Wear 
layout Editor: Mary Beth Crimmin~ Photo Editor: Phil Bosco Features Editor: Tom Ehrbar Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Night Editor: Dave Lammers Layout Design: Tom Hamilton Headlines: Rick Smith, Frank 

Wie!lllrd. Phil Schatz Layout: Margie Rurak, Marilyn Becker, Mike Bridgeman 
The opinions in the editorials, news analyses, and columns of The Observer are solely those of the authors and editors of The Observer and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administrations, faculty or student bodies. 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1969 


Dissent 
"The following is a dissenting opinion by Observer news editor Glenn Corso": 
The prime agony of the war in Vietnam is that it is unlike any other in history. No clarion call to arms has sounded for this war; there have been no impatient lines of young men forming at enlistment centers. All the wars America has fought have been carried out with a clear, single-minded purpose, that of victory. Even the disaster in Korea was started with victory in mind. Then Vietnam came along. Suddenly America found itself pursuing a course of "limited objectives." As the .present situation stands, the only thing that is limited is America's goals. The war has rapidly become intolerable to many Americans. It is time for a complete reversal of Vietnam policy. 
There are only two altelJlatives that we as a nation must follow. The first is a military victory. This would entail a massive escalation of the entire war effort. Our troop presence would have to be stabilized, and probably increased. There must be around-the-clock bombing of North Vietnam, with the destruction of any and all military targets, the mining and blockading of Haiphong, the destruction of the Red River dikes, hot pursuit and bombing of enemy troops in Cambodia and Laos. The consequences of such a move run the full gamut from victory to war with China. It would entail a declaration of war by the Congress, a move to a full war economy, and induction of all physically able men into the armed forces. 
Such a move, while being an honorable alternative, would probably be unacceptable to the majority of the people in our country. The second alternative is a sharply modified version of Nixon's plan to end the war. The United States must take the immediate initiative at the Paris peace talks. The first step would be a declaration of a U.S.-South Vietnamese cease-fire which would take effect on a specifically designated date, pending the approval of the NLF and North Vietnam. The U.S. should also draw up a contingency plan for the removal of all its troops, assuming that the cease-fire takes place, within a definite time period. We should call the North Vietnamese to do likewise. 
The second and,-perhaps, most important part of the plan is the 
removal of the Thieu-Ky government. It is time for the U.S. to stop 
kidding itself about the~e men. They represent the neo-clcolonial, 
pro-French, anti-nationalistic aristocracy of Vietnamese society_ 
Such men have never, and will never represent more than a minority 
of the people. They view government as a means to achieve personal 
ends and only attempt meaningless reforms after heavy pressure: 
from the U.S. They are not carrying on the war for admirable 
nationalistic goals, but only to preserve the corrupt status quo which 
favors a few. We must, working through the CIA and with the help 
of the truly nationalistic figures in South Vietnam, overthrow the 
Ky government and install an interim government under Tranh Van 
Dong. The immediate goal of this government should be the 
re-institution of the constitution, by holding truly fair and unbiased 
elections to set up a government which represents all the people in 
South Vietnam. 

Such an action, we realize, is not in the highest principles of a 
democratic government. Yet it must be realized that supporting a 
corrupt semi-dictatorship is certainly not adhering to these principles 
either. By attempting to negotiate a settlement of the war with 
Thieu and Ky in power is both ludicrous and outrageous. Withing six 
months of the time that the last U.S. soldier boards his plane 
homeSouth Vietnam will be firmly dominated by the North. Not 
only will we be betraying all the South Vietnamese who truly want a 
strong independent Vietnam yet find it repugnant to support Thieu 
and Ky, but we will be casting aside the supreme sacrifice made by 
40,000 young Americans. This will be a crime of the greatest 
magnitude. 

There are of course, other actions which must accompany the 
course of action we have detailed. The air strikes by B-52 bombers 
should be halted immediately, and should remain so as long as the 
position of our troops in the field are not seriously endangered. The 
President must, as a pre-requisite, seek a declaration from Congress 
indicating majority approval of such a course of action. 
This is America's only acceptable route out of Vietnam. 
L__ 
PAGE 5

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1969 
THE OBSEIWER.~---------­


History of the T.A. wage battle 1968-69 
by C.S. Hirst 
In the academic year 1968-69 the University of Notre Dame employed a­bout seventy Teaching Assistants who taught over 3500 undergraduates at all levels each semester. From these facts alone it is apparent that the Teaching Assistants were essential to Notre Dame 
yet for their contributions most of ~hem were paid only $21 00 a year. Above this they received what the University characterized as "full tuition," yet they were forbidden to take more than two courses while teaching, and many of them were taking no classes whatever. Their teaching then, not only helped the Uni­versity to maintain its high standards, it also cut their normal progress towards a degree in half. Notre Dame was not providing adequate compensation for our contributions. We were being used. 
The injustice of this situation had been a concern to the Teaching Assistants for some years. We were painfully aware of the difficulty of trying to live and work under the policies of the University, and 
although  we  felt  that  our  plight  was  
obvious,  and  that  we  did  not  need  to  
compare  Notre  Dame  with other major  

universities, it was not a little disturbing to us that Teaching Assistants at other universities were receiving up to twice our salary for teaching half as many students. In addition, they generally receive written contracts, special parking priviledges, faculty discounts at the bookstore, and 
Ed Roickle 

office space so that they could prepare class and see students in private. At Notre Dame, however, while the secretaries and maintainance personcl do receive these or comparable priviledgcs (in the case of office space), the Teaching Assistants did not -even though they were replacing the faculty in the most important work of the University. 
Judging by accepted standards across the nation and by the value of our services, we found that Notre Dame was not paying its way, and we felt that any attempt to improve our position had to be seen as reasonable. But our status here was made even more intolerable by several other factors. We discovered that there are many Teaching Assistants here who do nothing at all and receive the same pay as those who do teach. We were told the Teaching Assistants consistently receive the highest evaluations from their students and from the Administration. We were aware that without our efforts the distinguished faculty members here would have to teach more courses and lower level courses than men of their caliber do elsewhere, and that without us the University would have great difficulty in attracting them. We saw our contri­bution to Notre Dame as contributing substantially to the excellence of both the graduate and undergraduate educa­tion here, both through our direct efforts and our contribution to the atmosphere 
Racism at Notre Dame 
1 am a white student at Notre Dame. I am writing '":ith an awareness of my racist nature, which ! have be~n tr.ymg to understand and change for some time. What follows 1s wn.tten for my fellow white students with the hope that we can recogmze what our culture has done to us and begin to change both ourselves and our society. 
There is a crisis approaching at Notre Dame. No one can say for sure just when, but events arc leading up to a showdown of one form or another between black and white at Notre Dame. 
Item. An incident of booing at a basketball game resulted in bad feelings in our "community." Item. The Black Studies program bogged down and was effectively killed during the past summer. 
Item. 100% of the suites in the Black Concentration in Alumni Hall have displaced whites from rooms in the unfinished dorms. This situation has already provoked reaction. 
Item. Arthur McFarland termed his meeting with the Board of Trustees "the most nauseating experience of my four years at Notre Dame". Further, he termed the trustees "a bunch of bigots". 
The above incidents are some of the more publicized personifica­tions of the underlying feelings in the great white land of Our Lady 
of the  Lake. Covert racism is  an  all-pervasive aspect of the Notre  
Dame  culture  which  makes  the  atmosphere  here stultifying and  
offensive to many black students.  

In succeeding columns I intend to try and analyze the how and the why of racism at Notre Dame. I also intend to offer what I hope can he some solutions to the white problem here. However, right now, there is a more pressing problem which cannot wait. 
Recent occurrences indicate that there is a lack of understanding among white students concerning the black concentration. Some such students have complained that they don't know why the concentrations exist and that no one has bothered to explain it. 
My first reaction is to say that it is none of our damn business why blacks want to live together. As individuals and as a group they have every right to determine how and where they will live. However, in the interest of harmony, brotherhood and good feeling I would like to consider a few points which I feel are important to all of us. 
First, when the blacks say the atmosphere at Notr.P. . n,.m .. ;~ stultifying and alien, we as white people cannot say that 1t IS not so. We have to accept the fact that we cannot understand the psychological and social pressures which face a ?lack student at .a white middle class university. What we can do IS get off of the1r backs and stop yelling about separatism and try to find out what it is about us and our society that allows and even encourages such deep division between human beings. Second, the black man's rejection of our structured, dehumanized society, and the resulting paranoia on the part of the Notre Dame 
"man" indicates that the pervading inferiority complex of white society has carried over to yet another generation. Why is it that the attempts by black people to achieve their own identity provoke a 
fearful reaction on the part of so many whites? It has been suggested by more than one sociologist that the white American society has traditionally relied upon oppression of minority groups in order to define itself. Could it be that the white man is finally and irrevocably faced with the task of realizing his collective personality without having the crutch of someone to look down on? 
which attracts good teachers. 
We spent October making sure that our grievances were legitimate, and in early November approached our various depart­ments to request a substantial raise, parking priviledges, contracts, and book­store discounts. Our departments proved totally unable to help us, so in late December we began discussion of the possibility of withholding our students' grades in order to dramatize our plight. We felt this to be a responsible tactic since we knew that earlier attempts to rectify the University's policies had failed, and since we would not be injuring our students unless the administration proved adament in refusing to establish policies which were already in effect at all major universities. We finally decided, however, to go through all official chan­nels in order to give the University one last chance to respond to reasonable requests. 
We therefore drew up a petition which offered a complete plan for the treatmenf of Teaching Assistants -one which con­tained, in whole or in part, nothing that was not already accepted at most other institutions. This petition was signed by over ninety percent of the faculty mem­bers of the departments that had Teaching Assistants who actually did teach, and was sent to Father Walsh with the positive recommendations of Father Beichner and Dean Crosson. A deadline for some sort of answer was set for May I, 1969. Our deadline passed without any indication that the administration had even received the petition, and so our representative requested an interview with Father Walsh. His contacts with the Vice-President at first proved fruitless, but after several discussions the Teaching Assistants received the bookstore dis­counts normally given to the Faculty, as 
well as Faculty parking priviledges. It was only with the utmost difficulty that we could persuade Father Walsh to provide us with any written response, and to this date we have never received any written statement in answer to the overall plan presented to him. Moreover, when we returned in the fall, we discovered that no competent plans had been made to imple­ment the two minor concessions that the administration had made concerning bookstore discounts and parking privi­ledges. 
If the Teaching Assistants at Notre Dame were to be able to live, and were expected to replace full Faculty members in the classroom, then our wages of $2100 per year were totally inadequate. Last year we made every attempt to remain within the boundaries of modera­tion, assuming that the justice of our case 
would be unmistakeable to reasonable men. We tried reason, but found that reason proved effective only in secondary and symbolic matters. We discovered that even in those matters the administration was more adept at promises than action. If the administration insists that reason must prevail on campus and that it will attempt to and act oft mature proposals ­then it must take care that its statements are not contradicted by its actions. Other­
wise those who have taken them at their 
word, and relied on positive and complete proposals, will find that maturity is self-defeating when an ; dministration grants 
its favors only to the vociferous. As of last spring, the administration had demonstrated only that it will not re­spond realistically to serious problems until they have reached crisis propor­tions. 




OBSERVER 
FEATURES 
Tom Murphy Where will it end? 
TOMORROW'S HEADLINES: 
Nixon withdraws 25,000 troops. .3 5,000 more to be pulled out. . Hershey fired . . . . ONE DAY IN 
OCTOBER 
TOMORROW'S HEADLINES: President promises I00,000 more out by March. TWO DAYS IN 

NOVEMBER 
Where will it end; When will the stu­dents advocating immediate withdrawal from Vietnam be satisfied? When Nixon shows some positive sign of ending the war? When's that? Difficult to answer to say the least. Do they have any concern other than pull-out? Should we worry about what happens to the people of South Vietnam? If not, then you claim you are a better judge of the situation than Kennedy, Johnson, and Nixon (the Presidents responsible for our involve­ment) despite the fact that you know less of what is actually going on there. Inter­esting, isn't it? If we should be concerned about the welfare of the South, who is in the best position to evaluate how fast troops should be withdrawn? You or the President? 
Some important questions, like thl: above, should be answered today. If they are not, the moratorium will be a terrible failure. Demonstration will prove nothing to Nixon---only answers will. 
Another important item should be noted; today is not meant to be one isolated event, but a snowball building to things to come. One day now, two next month, three the next, etc.. But wonder, who has the right to stop the process of education? More money and manpower is tied up in education than Vietnam, so what gives someone the power to discontinue classes? Lack of education (and not having the opportunity to be educated) is the major factor in allowing discrimination to exist. Why stop the process of education for even one day? If you answer, "to draw attention to the killing in Vietnam," you are not giving a sufficient response. There are other ways to make the Vietnam situation dramatic---use them! Don't commit an injustice to everyone by stopping education. It's a greater crime to me to do so than to continue what some call the "immoral war." PEACE IN VIETNAM--When it's possible. 

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1969
PAGE 6 
No Stand Editor: Efforts to politicize the Uni­versity continue to grow. The latest is that of the Vietnam Moratorium. Its backers urge the University as an institution to take a stand on a partisan, politi­cal issue --the Vietnam war. But the University is an institution of education, supposedly opera­ting on the pre-supposition of searching for, and inquiring into the nature of truth. By taking a stand on such a divisive political issue as the Vietnam war, one must wonder how the ·purpose of the University is to be fur­thered, in view of the great differences of opinion even among Christians on the Viet­nam conflict. The University may, and must, serve as a forum for dis­cussion of the issues raised in the Vietnam conflict, but it should not propagate one view of the Vietnam war over the rest. The University is an educational in­stitution, not a political one. Sincerely, Ronald W. Pearson P.O. Box 74 Notre Dame 
Trustees 
Editor: 
I am writing in regard to the article concerning the student rally outside the meeting of the board of trustees and the student body president, Phil McKenna, and the off-campus junior who spoke to the crowd about the financial holdings of the trustees. What is the relevance of maligning these men? What is the relevance of branding a man's grandfather "the pirate of Peru?" What is the relevance of bestowing on the 




Mail 

masses a financial report on the 
assets of a member of the boardof trustees? What proof is there of such accusations as being true? Why do you malign a group of men while you are asking them to bestow upon you certain privileges and rights that only they have the power to present to you? 
Not only are these statements irrelevant, but they are disrespecting the dignity and the rights of these men. Students want their rights and privileges respected, why not respect the rights of the members of the board of trustees? The simple inane accusations and remarks of one or two persons is a rather poor way to report the results of the meeting with the board of trustees and the rally which coincided with the meeting. 
Susie Way 
Box 645, SMC 
Why Fight? 

Dear Editor: 
On the eve of the Moratorium I asked myself that basic ques­tion which I'm sure everyone has asked himself, namely' "Why are 
we in Viet Nam?" Are we fight­ing for a people's freedom, a freedom for them to live with, a 
freedom to choose their form of 
Government or are we fighting in order to assure a "Demo­cratic" form_ of Government pat­terned after our own. If it's the 
. . . f all right-formed consciences would automatically agree with all "orders from headquarters." Such faulty logic was met with a loud horselaugh. 

But now read the following, taken from the statement of the Theology Faculty and the Grad­uate Theological Union which appeared in Monday's Observer: 
"The time has definitely· come, with regard to the Viet Nam war, when a Christian con­science, informed by the teach­ings of the Church, e.g. the Pastoral Constitution on 'The Church in the Modern World' and the encyclical 'Peace on Earth,' should have gained clar­ity concerning the immorality of any continuance (sic) of this war." 
In other words: "Let your conscience be your guide, as long as it guides you where the rest of us think it should." 
Cheer, Cheer for Old Notre Dame. We'll turn out a Pope yet. 
Theodore B. Price, Jr. 
309 Pangborn 
No Joke 
Editor, 
Realizing the space and time limitations involved in the daily publication of the Observer, I would like to both apologize for and reaccount to the residents of Alumni Hall a conversation I had over the phone with an Ob~erver 
reporter Thursday night. 
When questioned that evening about George (not Phil) White's write-in campaign I said a 
number of things. I did not say
that George's candidacy itself was a "joke"' rather I said that George took the campaign, and 
the Student Senate, very seriously. Because of the 
d. · t of campaign ~ne °~n Y t a d 
tnvo 11 vtng wo unoppose 
Chris Wolfe About the Moratorium 
Prior to making a few observations about the moratorium I would merely ask the reader to remember that there is an intellectually respectable position which supports the war in Vietnam (and even its escalation).. Considerable attention has been paid to that topic already though, and so I would like to turn to some other aspects of the moratorium. 
There is a segment of opinion on campus which would like to .~ee the Univtrs.ty take a stand against the war in Vietnam, and in support of the moratorium 
There is a segment of opinion on campus which would like to see the University take a stand against the war in Vietnam, and in support of the moratorium. Such a move would, however, be a considerable offense against the principle of academic freedom. If the University took such a stand it would be indirectly forcing some people to participate in an event (or belief) which they themselves oppose. Whether it is accurate or not, people will say "Notre Dame supports the moratorium" rather than "Part of Notre Dame supports the moratorium". 
Some would justify this on the basis of what they conceive to be 
the democratic principle of majority rule. Since the majority of this 
community is anti-war, it is proper to say that Notre Dame is 
anti-war, according to these people. The fallacy in this statement can 
be shown by saying that "Human beings believe in God" just 
because the majority believe in something like a God. The problem is 
that the human race is not constituted with a view to "taking 
stands" on the issue of theism. Neither is the University constituted 
with a view to taking stands on current political issues. 
Inevitably people will crop up with their comments that Vietnam is not a political, but a moral issue, and there is some truth in that. The University does take a position with respect to moral principles, as Notre Dame does in calling itself a Catholic University. The question then becomes "do the moral principles of Catholicism which the University proclaims (at fund-raising time anyway) justify the University's support of the moratorium?" The answer to that question, I believe, is quite negative. It is conceivable that a Catholic uses his religious principles to condemn the war, but it is equally conceivaple that he use them to support the war. The moral principles of Catholicism can be proclaimed, but the University has no right to single out one set of deductions from those principles, and proclaim it over the opposition of community members who share the same principles as premises, but arrive at quite different conclusions. 
· There is another factor of the moratorium that deserves some attention. It is said to be a day of discussion. True, opposing sides will be invited to say a few things here and there, though not much. But -the main focus of the dav will not be to hear any of your ideas; it is to TELL you that the war is stupid and/or immoral, and that if you dare to support a different point of view, you too are stupid and/or immoral. Day of discussion? More like a day of concentrated propaganda from one particular segment of campus opinion. 
latter, and I believe 1t ts, I eel d.d t th h d littl The thing that is really bothersome is that newcomers to Notre,---------------, that we are inhibiting the cause can 1 a es, e h a11 a . e Dame, especially freshmen, may get the idea that the only
If's Nof Jusf 

of freedom and should withdraw' rea~on to take the ~ampat?n 
intellectually respectable stand is to assert the immorality of the· d" t 1 I b l"e senously. I must admit partial
our forces tmme ta e y. e 1 ve ·. . . 
Vietnam war. Certainly there are plenty of demagogues who do (and t N h ld gmlt for this lack of senousness,f V.
the peop1e o 1e am s ou f . "bil"t t will continue to) tell them that. One can only hope that they will
Another Franchise 

b · th · f d t ke or It was my respons1 1 y o 
e ~ven . eu ree_ om ~ rna convince the voters of the not be duped into such a belief merely because anti-warriors are
Itheu chotec regardmg theu form . d . f th among the most vocal activists on campus.
Steak House I of Government. Im~ortance an neces~tty o e ! Sincerely, od~f~cet I soughdt. In dt~1s ~tensethof 
The Black Angus is the tsm crest an me wcn y, e
Steve Trost •70 . ... k " b f
friendly home of fine Mid­

campaign was a JO e e ore 


Housedebatestopped
George entered the campaign on
western steak dinners broiled 
the way its owners and origin­

Wednesday. He was able to take 
Right of Conscience advantage of the state of the WASHINGTON (UPI)-House the Nixon Administration now
ators like them for their own 
table. And with their awn 

contest through a sincere and members supporting publicly con tern plates. Their 
decor, carpets, comfortable 

extensive campaign. Wednesday's nationwide anti­proposals ranged from an 
Editor: Let me emphasize George's immediate withdrawal to a
booths and chairs, and plea­

war protest led a lively, give and
The theologians here, it turns campaign effort. In one night it phaseout that would be com­
sant music. And the prices for 

take debate on Vietnam Tuesday 
out, have rather short memories. was far more extensive than pleted by the end of 1970.
juicy satisfying steak dinners 

night but were blocked in theirRecall the debate over the mine, which was spread over
broiled to your order are only 

Supporters of administrationefforts to keep the House in
rights of individual conscience three evenings. He was the only policy urged that President
99 cents to $1.89. 
session all night.

which followed the Pope's candidate to put up an extensive Nixon be given time to work out
It's not a franchise; so 

After 116 minutes of some
encyclical Humanae Vitae. Many amount of signs. As far as his an orderly withdrawal, one that
there's nothing that can com­

times heated but never bitterof the world's leading theolo-firm belief in the purpose of
pare with the Black Angus 

they claimed would not leavediscussion, the debate endedgians argued that its doctrine Student Government and the
anywhere. 

South Vietnam in chaos and infringed up~n th~se rights. Senate is concerned, George was when Rep. G. V. "Sonny" endanger American troops. The There was a wtdely signed state-a far more devoted prospect for Montgomery, (D., Miss.), general concensus from both ment to that effect issued by Senate than myself. 
abruptly at 10:05 p.m. EDT 
officially noted the absence of a sides was that American some members of the Theology When an election is as close as 
quorum. involvement in Vietnam should Department here late last fall. Thursday's the victors are By a roll call vote of 112-110 come to an end in the relativelyRemember the response of products of luck. This makes me members then voted to adjourn near future. The dispute was those who supported the Pope: particularly anxious to apoligize the House. over how to bring it about. 
"Yes," they said, "conscience for what seemed unfair Earlier, House supporters of Rep. Andrew Jacobs Jr., D. 
has its rights, but only if it is a treatment of the candidate who the nationwide Vietnam mora­Ind., led off the debate at 7:30 right-formed conscience." Thewas victimized all too 
torium beat back attempts to p.m. "I say to my young friends implication was, of course, that adequately for one evening. 
adjourn Tuesday night and across the nation tonight that I thank the Observer for the pushed on with their plans for that this House has said in the
Pre-Law Society 

opportunity to clear the air on vote not to adjourn that people
Mr. Frank T. Read, Assistant 
an all night debate on U.S. war 
this issue. I only wish I had been policy. who do not believe in
Dean of the Duke University 
able to express myself more ably
School of Law, will be conducting 
While supporters of the mora­democracy are not in the

TEAK liOUSE 

interviews for prospective stu­
to your reporter. 
tori urn jammed the House majority in the cham~er,'' he 
dents on Thursday, October 16th, 
galleries and hundreds of other said.
1516 N. Ironwood Dr. 

in Room 154 of the Center for 
Sincerely, students waited their turn The House GOP conference
Continuing Education. Sign upSouth of the campus between 
Don Mooney 
outside the capitol, the chairman, Rep. John B.
for an appointment outside RoomSouth Bend Ave. and Edison Rd. 
341 Alumni representatives plunged into Anderson of Illinois, said what some felt was the most immediate withdrawal of U.S. thorough discussion it had ever troops, as demanded by some 
101 O'Shau nes . 
BLOOD, SWEAT & TEARS 
held on Vietnam. moratorium backers, would lead In brief, the House backers of to an "annihilation" of the
Tickets on sale 
Vietnam moratorium day argued soldiers and "wwholesale
ACC Box Offke, Gilbert's, Bookstore 
in favor of a more rapid with­slaughter" of South Vietnamese 
drawal of American forces than ci viii a ns. 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­



WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1969 THB OBSERVER. 
Hall presidents invited to air gripes 
by Jim Graif 
Student Body President Phil McKenna extended an invitation at last week's Hall Presidents Council meeting to all hall presidents and section leaders to attend a gripe session next Monday. This session is to be the first step in a series of Student Li fc Conferences in which students would be able to discuss their problems directly with Student Government officers. 
According to McKenna, the Student c;overnment at their last cabinet meeting realized that they weren't getting down to the real needs of students. Therefore he asked the presidents to make available a place in their halls where students could submit let­ters stating their complaints against, and suggestions for the members of student government. 
A two week period would then follow in which McKenna and other members of student government would visit indivi­dual halls in teams and talk with 

S M C farm produces crops, beef 
few students are aware of the activities of the Saint Mary's farm located north of the SMC campus bordered by the Indiana Tollway on the north and the Saint Joseph River on the west. 
Approximately 430 acres of land, allowing for the recent de­duction due to building expan­sion, are owned by Saint Mary's College. Some 350 acres of these are farmed. 
Corn, soybeans, and wheat are the crops grown at present. They are sold on the cash market with the exception of a certain per-
Priesthood subject of Vocations Conference 
The priesthood's traditional prophetic role might well be best filled today by the hypeuated priest-professional, a University of Notre Dame sociologist said Friday. 
Dr. John P. Koval, assistant professor of sociology, told a Notre Dame vocations confer­ence that the contemporary prophet bears little outward re­semblance to his biblical fore­bearer. The 20th century's prophetic style "does not mean beard, sandals, figs, wild honey and 90 days in the desert," he said. "It refers to leadership, building a social cnnscnsus on mor:1l imper~tives, and providing a sense of meaning and direction to men. This is an urban-tech­nolo&ical society and prophetic roles...are based on the compe­tence and training required by that society and ...are based on what is identified as secular com­pete'nce and secular training." 
The sociologist argued for moral encouragement of alter­nate carreer patterns of priests. The cleric used to be a "a man for all seasons," Koval com­mented, but "priests have re­mained the skilled amateurs and semi-professional of the Church of yesterday in areas which have become highly professional to­day." 
The modem priest, according to Koval, stand at the point where secular concerns dovetail with moral imperatives, making the customary distinction be­tween "secular" and "sacral" difficult to sustain. 
"The clergy ,"he said, "deal with moral imperatives, and the 
centage which is used as feed for the cattle. The cash sales yield profits for SMC. 
Beef cattle are also raised on the farm. It furnishes the beef for the convent. 
Mr. George Taylor, superin­tendent of the farm, has been with SMC for 41 years. His resi­dence is on the northwest end of campus overlooking the farm. 
Many alterations haye been made in the course of Mr. Tay­lor's supervision. At one time, SMC was proprietor of 80 I acres of farm land. This acreage was students in small groups. He hoped to obtain student feeling on what direction student government should take. He felt that individual students would be more willing to express their views in small discussion groups rather than in large meetings. 
McKenna also stated that he was disturbed by the fact that many people are looking for incidents to abolish parietal hours. lie felt that the good results of the present system are overlooked. He was unable to say if the sign-in procedure would be dropped or if the halls would eventually be able to de­termine their own parietal hours. lie felt that there is a need for a change in attitude on the part of students concerning disorders in the balls. It is the responsibility of the Hall Presidents and their hall councils to determine what is disorderly in their respective halls. • 
Finally, McKenna informed the Council members that a re-
moral imperatives of our time 
relate to the city, the poor, 
minorities, the disenfranchised, 
war, civil rights, and over-popu­
lation. And whether it be city 
fathers, neighborhood commit­
tees, the poor, angry minority groups, or inspired college stu­dents. . .they end up dealing with the professional who has the special skills, knowledge, and expertise. The communication that takes place is expressed in terms like 'ought,' 'should,' 'must,' and the like. This is the vocabulary of the moralists and men working in prophetic activi­ty." 
Interview session 
The Department of Finance and Business Economics, College of Business Administration, will sponsor a session on the "Tech­nique of Being Interviewed", to be held at 7:00p.m., Thursday, October 16, in Room 122, Hayes-Healy. 
The twin objectives of the program are to provide exposure to techniques of employment interviews and to develop skills useful in such situations. 
A film, "The Half-Million Dol­
lar Decision," will be shown, 
followed by a simulated inter­
view, discussion and a question­
and-answer period. Conducting 
the presentation will be Mr. Wal­
demar M. Goulet, assistant pro­
fessor, who states that the ses­
sion "should be valuable 
whether you plan on going to 
ind~try, orgrnd~~Khod,m
the military." 
quest had been 1nade to Fr. of the work had been done over 
Jerome Wilson asking for rebates the summer when no one could for displaced students. Grace be consulted. lie added that if and Flanner students who had to someone had an amendment he live in other dorms, along with wished added, it would be the students who housed them, accepted. would each recieve twenty dol­
lars for every month they livedr---------------'----------------4 
in the forced situation. 
Fred Dedrick, who served as vice-chairman of the Committee on the Judicial Code presented the provisions of the proposed code which concerns hall policies. lie explained the idea behind summary disposition. "There are some cases" he said, "in which the student doesn't want his crime made known publically." In these cases, the judicial advisor, who can be the rector or assistant rector, decides on what the punishment should be. 
When asked why certain people weren't inquired as to their opinions of the revised code, he pointed out that much 
spread over three farms; Saint 
Joseph's,  St.  John's,  and  St.  
Patrick's.  
The  farms'  output  included  

grains, vegetables, fruits, poul­try, dairy products, and pork, processed in the campus' smoke­house. The farms served as the · college's primary food source. Nursery stock was also raised providing for campus land­scaping. 
Gabfests back 

next Tuesday 
The Notre Dame Student Union Academic Commission and the St. Mary's College Aca­demic Commmission announce the return of the popular Gab fests. The program consists as in the past, of five Notre Dame students and five St. Mary's Col­lege students, meeting at a St. Mary's or Notre Dame's profes­sor's home for informal conver­sation, refreshments, and a chance to meet students and profs from both schools. 
The response to last year's program was very enthusiastic and it is confidently ·felt that this year's will be equally suc­cessful. The value of such meet­ings ultimately comes from a student expressing his views openly and communicating with '1ew and different people, who for some students were at one time unapproachable. 
The first Gabfest is set for 
8:00 PM Tuesday, October 21 , 1969 at the home of Mr. Michael Marcy of the St. Mary's French Department. Anyone interested should contact Sara Ballard 4123 or Louise Krugh 4049, Box 453 as soon as possible. 
Splros Men's Shop downtown South Bend Clothing by Hart, Shoffner and Marx~ Van Heusen, Pendleton and Jantzen 
~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I_ 

Big Label 

Budweiser® 
KINO OP: 111!1!"5 
~~~~~~ft,m,/4 ~w~~ana.B~~.a& 
THE lARGEST-SElLING BEER IN THE WORLD 
~-:7d~$w: 
ST. LOUIS NEWARK LOS ANGELES 
Read the label and you'll get the message: 
Budweiser is the bestreason in the worldto drink beer 
I -•
. ( t" 
PAGE 7 
PIT{T W££K£ND Ticket Sales Wed. Night 7:30 2D LaFortune 
DON'T MISS IT 

' 
THE OBSERVER. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1969 
PAGE 8 

r'T;';;;''''T;;;;;;,,,,,,,,:::~·;:::,,:;:'·"::;,·,;~:·m;::::::;;:,··o<·>·: ,.,.,.,,.".,,.,.,.,_,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,, ,,, ,,. .i 
~iii West of the State line, the Thomas :;:;Alva Edison Memorial, and the William ~;~;Henry Harrison Rest Area, nestled in the ;:;:a central part of the State that gave us ;:;:Booth Tarkington, the ever-popular Coali­;:;:tion for Political Action apparently has :;::found a home. Like the Three Weird :;:;sisters rising out of its own din and ~;~:caphony, it began issuing proclamations ;:;:of profound idiocy almost immediately.;:;:It doesn't like the Viet Nam War. It ;:;;doesn't like racism. The Military-Indus­;:;;trial Complex is a nasty no-no. And :;:;people who don't like the Coalition for ~;~;Political Action are dirty rotten fascist · ;:;;pigs. It is too ludicrous to be menacing, ;:;;but it is substantial and publicized ;:;:enough to be annoying. ;:;; The Notre Dame Coalition for Political ;~;~Action recently lined up behind big bra­;:;:ther, the National Moratorium Com­;~:~mittee in calling for a moratorium on all ;:::activity October fifteenth which is the :~:~day they have decided to ~ark as I -hate } the -war day. In the Campus Salesrag of ::::Sophistry, the Scholastic which consent­~~~~d to print the porclaim~tion in lieu of a :;:;comic strip, the national Moratorium ~:~:Committee said, "Ending the war in Viet ·::;;Nam is the most important task facing 
;:;;the American nation ... " -it was nice of 
:;:;them to point that our -"Over the last 
~;~:1ew years, millions of Americans have 
;:;:campaigned, protested and demonstrated 
{against the war. .. The discredited policies 
:;:;of the past have brought about this 
:::;America?, tragedy have not been 
····changed
:::: ... 

;:;; How diesredit for American policies 
:;:;can be extrapolated from the fact that 
}millions of Amer~cans demonstrated 
· · · t th · · f

}~ams ~m tsda quest~o11~ or the ages. 
;:;: n any given ay a jlll 10n out of the 
great American boobery are ready to protest Copernicus's decision that the Earth revolves around the Sun. Demon­strations aren't the gague of the American sentiment. Elections are. And the vast majority of our elected representatives, and the vast majority of our elected Senators favor our actions in Viet Man; obviously; or they would have followed the latest advice of the amazing Dr. Goodell. An astoundingly high percentage of the American people voted for the two candidates most militant in their support of our involvement in VietNam. 
But, to take it home: the CPA has called for a shutdown of the school on October fifteenth, a demand that was partially asquiesced to. Aside from the 
fact that they have a helluva nerve trying to suspend my class because they don't like our involvement in Viet Nam, this blathering call to arms raises a serious question? What do they want for the 
people of Viet Nam? 

Freedom? Then they'll find no two greater backers than Richard Nixon and Lyndon Johnson. Three distinct times South Vietnamese President Thieu invited the North Vietnamese to discuss nation­wide free elections. Three times that invitation was refused by the united friends of the Late Ho. 
In its absurd proclamation, the Nation­al Moratorium Committee says, "If the war continues this fall and there is no firm committment to American with­drawal on October fifteenth, participating 
members of the acedeffil·c communt"ty will spend the entire day organizing against the war and working in the community to get others to join us in an enlarged and 
z h d . . ,
Tehngt e~e morato~zum fm Nove~nber. ' ere ts no mentwn o the kmd of 
Water may seem slippery 
enough as your car skids on a 
rain-wet road, but to engineers 
who worry about pumping 
sewage or navigating submarines, 
its speed -reducing drag is a real 
problem. 
At the University of Notre 
Dame, Dr. Nicholas Sylvester, 
assistantprofessor of chemical 
engineering, is studying a way to 
make water slipperier. Scientists 
have known for over 20 years, 
he said, that adding a small 
concentration of ::ertain 
chemicals to water might greatly 
reduce its drag. Presently, 
Sylvester explained, most 
applications of this knowledge 
are in pumping liquids 
---sewage, pure water, and oil 
---through transcontinental 
pipelines. 
However, he added, the Navy is interested enough in the possibility of using the drag-reducing agents for fast-moving underwater craft, that it has funded Sylvester's basic research under "Project Themis," a program awarding grants in the area of deep ocean engineering. Of course, Sylvester pointed out, you can't saturate the entire ocean with chemicals but perhaps the substance could be injected over the submarine or other craft through small holes, or the vessel could be coated with several layers of the chemical, which would dissolve as the ship moved along. These ideas would reduce drag where it counts ---at the boundary layer where the water meets the solid surface. 
The agents which are presently known to reduce drag in water and other fluids are usually giant polymers of high molecular weight, that is, they contain thousands of atoms linked together in one molecule. Usually, they are linear, rather 
than branched. If these polymers 

are present in very low concentrations , they can often reduce the drag of a fluid, but in higher concentrations they turn water to syrup, and actually increase the drag. 
AIt hough the drag~ reducing class of polymers has been valuable in several situations, Sylvester said, no one really knows how or why it works. In order to create better polymers, and exploit their applications to the fullest, he believes that more must be learned about how they do the job of reducing drag. 
Sylvester and his two assistants, Ron Sampson and Stan Kumor, both graduate students in chemical engineering, are trying to find out exactly how the polymer is able to reduce drag in fast-flowing water. The first step in their experiment is to measure the velocity of several layers of water flowing past a metal plate, and compare the results obtained for water with the polymer added and water without any polymers. 
To measure the speed of water near the plate, Sylvester and his assistants use a laser. "The laser," he explained, "can help us measure the velocity without disrupting or altering the flow in any way." Before the laser technique, flow-obstructing devices had to be inserted into the moving water to measure velocity. 
The three experimenters shine part of the laser beam, which has a known frequency, or color, through the moving liquid. The other part of the beam is fed directly into a detector, where it is compared with the beam returning from the liquid. By analyzing the "frequency shift," or color difference, between these two beams, the engineers can determine the velocity of th'! liquid at any point of the 
flow. 
solution that would be effected; no call for the freedom of the Vietnamese people; no insistance on elections. Now. does the CPA want justice in Viet Nam? Do they want the people of Viet Nam to determine their own destiny? Facts seem to point to the negative. 
They simply want us to get the hell out. 
Tl\e war in VietNam could be termina­ted in a week; free elections could be instituted in a month; Viet Nam could be a unified, free, stable, reasonably self-sufficient country in a year. There are no magic circles protecting Haiphong and Hanoi from bombs, Abbie Hoffman to the contrary. But does this proclamation talk about bombing as an acceptable 
solution? No, of course not. They are not interested in solving the war in Viet Nam. They are simply interested in getting us out. 
You mar have noticed little one-page statements 1from the CPA on the Bulletin board of the Huddle, an otherwise clean place. It is: a valid CPA question to ask where chairman Chuck Leone and his little band of friends get the finances to publish these sophistries. Somehow I doubt that the "bring your dollar" day the CPA held was sufficient, especially since some of the pamphlets came out before the money was collected. 
Some of the more naive members of the CPA contend that the real purpose of the October fifteenth peace through in­activity day is to open a dialogue on Viet 
N Th. . f k
am. ts ts, o course, a coc and bu11 story, mostly bull. The CPA could have their "dialogue" on Sunday when there are no classes to disrupt. By the same tok_en, the CPA_ is not calling a mora­tonum on "busmess as usual," a\l their silly proclamation says. CPA member~~~~ will still eat lunch, still sleep, still go to::=: the bathroom, still read the funny papers.:~;~ What they are doing is specifically callinfi;:; for a moratorium on classes specifically;:;: designed to embarass President Nison into:~;~ copping out on Viet Nam. :::: 
One final note. In introducing Charles~;~; Goodell, Father Hesburgh came close to::;: denouncing the war. In the now-famous::;: statement, he said that if "I had the::;; wisdom and the power I would stop the:~:: war before midnight." That by itself is a::;: rather innocuous statement. If I had the::;: wisdom and the power I'd end the wa/:: before midnight, myself. I'd also end::;: income taxes and bring about another:~;~ descent of the Holy Spirit. That's not the:;:; point. ;:;: 
The point is that the. ~oratori~m ;~;~ statement calls for a prectpttous wtth-;:;: drawal of U.S. for.ces without regard to~~~~ the fate of the Vtetnamese people, and:;:; Father l_ie~bur~'s statement of semi-:;~:: s~pport IS tll-advtsed,. to say the least. I:~;~: smcerely hope that his statement-or any·::;: ensuing statement-is not the result ofi;} pressure brought to bear from the CPA:;:; and its . motl.ey collection of allies: If ~ll~ anyone IS nruve enough to truly beheve ;:;: that Fmther Hesburgh should condemn;:;: the war in order to placate the radicals, I;:;: would refer him to the University of;:;: Mi~higan. There the president of the;:;:~ruversi_ty, who is eager if not astonish-i~~~ mgly bnght, thought that he ~on student;;;; approval by savagely denouncmg the Vtet;::~ Nam war. A few weeks later a group of·.·.
d · · :;:: stu e~~ took over a . bmldmg. H_ow;;:; come· pey ~er~ protestmg the es~abhsh-:;:;:
00 

mtelnltdob ah dstore that wasn t con-;;~:: 
ro e y t e stu ents ..
Oh well As the re;olutionaries would::~;: ' ' ::::: 
~::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:::::::::::::;:::::::::;:;:::;:::::;:;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::: 
Dr. Sylvester researches slippery water for Navy 

Dr. Nicholas Sylvester working with students and equipment. 
Daneheyannounces first session of Project Commitment on October 16 
James P. Danehy, general chairman of PROJECT COM­MITMENT II, announced that the first of six regular sessions, aimed at improving relations and understanding between the races and various ethnic groups in the area, will be held on October 16, 1969. 
Assisting Danehy in the 1969 project will be James F. Heren­deen, professional manager of Elkhart's Selmer Division of the Magnavox Company. Herendeen will be project leader for Project Commitment 11. 
According to Danehy, partici­pants representing the black and white community and various churches and synagogues throughout Saint Joseph and Marshall Counties, will be pre­sented each week with panel discussions, individual speakers or other visual materials which will focus on some aspect of interracial relations and allied community problems. 
The standard format for the series will provide an hour-long discussion. period to follow the featured presentation each week. 
At the final session all groups will be rearranged so that all members of the same congrega­tion will sit together. 
Projl~ct Commitment II is based upon two primary assump­tions: (I) it is the responsibility of well informed and well dis­posed white people to make a positive effort to hasten the change of attitude of whites toward the blacks, and, (2) full advantage must be taken of reli­
gious motivation. Too many per­sons still do not understand the contradiction between the com­mitment implied by their mem­bershiP in a congregation and the patterns of prejudice which they passively accept or actively promote. 
In line with these assump­tions, Project Commitment has the following stated objectives: 
To educate and motivate business,_ labor, government, and commumty leaders who are church and synagogue members. 
To create a group of con­vinced leaders who will act as catalysts for social action in their congregations. 
To improve communication and interaction bet ween affluent and poor, urban and rural black and white. ' 
To establish new methods and channels for resolving com­munity racial problems and ten­sions. 










