

SLC kills Vietnam Moratorium bill 
by Jim Holsinger 
The Vietnam Moratorium is a nation-wide effort to draw atten­tion to the Vietnam War. Stu­dents across the nation have been asked to refrain from atten­ding classes on October 15, and to take time to discuss the impli­cations of the war. 
Supporters of the program were attempting to gain Univer­sity support of the discussions concerning the war through the SLC. 
After nearly two hours of discussion and debate on other business before the SLC, Stu­dent Body Vice President Fred Dedrick moved to table the dis­cussions. Representatives of the administration then pointed out that there was no longer a quorum present because of the absence of Fr. McCarragher. 
The only motion that could be presented without a proper quorum was for adjournment. SBP Phil McKenna then called for an extra session of the SLC to consider the moratorium bill. 
A meeting was called for Thursday afternoon, but some representatives of the faculty and administration indicated that they could not attend the Thursday meeting. 
If they could not attend, there would not be a quorum at Thursday's meeting either, and business could not be transacted. 
The next scheduled meeting of the SLC' is next Monday, which would allow only two days for the University to consi­der the proposals should the SLC recommend the suspension of business. 
Some of the faculty and ad­ministration representatives who indicated that they could proba­bly not attend the Thursday meeting stated that it was not the business of the SLC to consi­der the moratorium. 
Professor James L. Massey, Chairman of the SLC, told stu­dent representatives at the meet­ing that they should try to per­suade the other members to at­tend the meeting. 
"I feel that it is very inappro­priate that certain members of the SLC refuse to meet simply because of the bill," said SBP McKenna. 
When asked after the meeting why he had left, Fr. McCarra­gher indicated that he could foresee no vote in the business being debated. 
"We had only discussed one­third of the judicial board bill, and the meeting was to adjourn at 6 o'clock," McCarragher said. 
Professor Massey tried to at­tract McCarragher's attention as he was leaving, but McCarragher was seated on the opposite side of the table. Massey was unable to contact him. 
The major portion of the meeting was spent discussing a new judicial system and code. 
The judicial bill was presented by Professor Leslie G. Foschio, Chairman of the judicial code committee. It was intended to establish certain procedural rights for students in disciplinary hearings. 
"The bill is essential because of the lack of precision in dealing with cases last year," said Foschio, in presenting the motion. 
Student Body Vice-President Fred Dedrick served as vice­chairman of the Committee and was called on throughout the meeting to defend the bill. 
Rev. James T. Burtchaell, a faculty representative to the 
""•..: 
.. , 
·--~·· 
~ ~ 
Fr. James Burtchaell and SLC member Ed Roickie await the start of Monday's meeting concerning ~ the Vietnam Moratorium and campus judicial reforms. a. 
SLC, attacked the judicial bill on pend business on October 15 to sen ted. Apparently, McCarragher the grounds that it was too assumed that no vote would be
allow students, faculty and the 
complicated. reached before the meeting ad­
administration to participate in He claimed that the bill was journed.
the nation-wide moratorium. attempting to imitate the proce­The motion did not ask for
Ed Roickle, a member of the 
dures of the civilian courts, and University support of the moral
SLC, was to make the motion at 
that too much time would be or political aspects of the mora­
the regular meeting yesterday.
spent on procedural matters. torium and did not seek a Uni­
When it became time to present 
versity opinion on the Vietnam The lack of a proper quorum the bill, it was discovered that war. 
at yesterday's meeting of the there was not a quorum present. 
Roickle stated that "the Viet­Student Life Council may have Rev. Charles I. McCarragher, nam war is one of the most killed all hope for official univer­Vice-President for Student Af­important issues facing the na­sity support of the Vietnam fairs, had left the meeting a few 
tion and the University," and Moratorium. minutes before the presentation 
asked that students and faculty A bill was to be presented of the bill, and the administra­should take time to consider the asking that the University sus-tion was not sufficiently repre-problem. 
Hall Presidents elect Suddes; Change in Senate electionsl 
by Bill Carter 
In one of the closest elections in recent council history, Tom Suddes of Holy Cross Hall was elected new chairman of the Hall Presidents' Council at their meeting last night. Suddes won in a run-off ballot over John Barkett after a first vote had failed to produce a majority for either nominee. 
The election was conducted in a closed caucus of the council before the formal opening of the meeting. Suddes presided over an agenda which included a long discussion of the format for next Thursday's Senatorial elections, and a visit from Fr. Riehle con­cerning the present state of the parietal system. 
In a preliminary order of busi­ness, the council unanimously agreed to support a petition op­posing the projected destruction of the Field House. The presi­dents volunteered to circulate the petition among the residents of their halls within the next few days. 
The petition advocates the re­furbishing and renovation of the building as an alternative to its demolition, or at least some fur­ther discussion of the future of what was described as a "time honored vestige of tradition". 
The Council also unknowingly passed an unconstitutional mo­tion which would have per­mitted each hall to assume full responsibility for the balloting in the senatorial elections. 
The unconstitutionality of the motion results from the fact that the HPC is not a legislative body but can only express an opinion as a body. 
If each individual hall wants to assume full responsibility for its senate elections, the approval of the hall council is necessary. The hall president cannot on his own decide what that hall's bal­loting procedures will be. 
The senate elections in the halls will be governed by the Student Government Election Council unless otherwise changed by the hall councils. 

Tom Thrasher, a stay senator and member of the election council, presented the Election Council's balloting procedures to the HPC, 
The Election Council's pre­
sent rules call for the counting 
of the votes to be done by the 
Senate. The HPC felt that the 
counting should be left up to 
each hall president and this dif­
ference of opinion led to the 
HPC adopting their unconstitu­
tional motion. The HPC felt that 
the Election Council showed a 
lack of trust in the hall govern­
ments. 
The Election Council last week voted down the HPC mo­tion and will meet tonight to review the situation. 
Fr. Riehle accepted the Coun­cil's request to appear and answer questions on the parietal situation. He began by stating, that there had been no formal 
changes made in the structure of the program sir.ce its organiza­
(Continued vn page 2) 
War apathy criticized 
In a statement issued yester­day, the theology majors of Notre Dame and St. Mary's Col­lege criticized the university community for its complacency toward the war in Vietnam. The statement was signed by some twenty-five theology students. They supported the Vietnam Moratorium as an opportunity to break the silence "which has too long implied the consent of 
this Christian University to that war." 
The theology majors meet every other Sunday. It was at one of these meetings that Dr. William Storey, of the Notre Dame theology department, brought up the idea that they do something to voice their feelings. The result was this statement which was drawn up and signed by the theology students. 
Bernie Ryan, the Off-campus Commissioner, pointed out that the statement was not presented solely to voice disapproval of the war. A major purpose was to criticize the complacency of the administration, faculty, and of the students as well. These stu­dents feel that the entire Chris­tian community of Notre Dame is guilty of inaction. 
Ryan, who helped draw up the statement, said that "the individual is going to have to take time to decide for himself. I feel that it would be better to stop what they're doing and take a look at the war." When asked about his feelings on the admini­stration's silence, he stated, "Not only has Father Hesburgh hesitated, I personally feel that it is a blatant failure on his part to assert himself, as president of a Christian university." 
Sara Bateman, one of the sign­ers of the statement, supports the Moratorium. But she believes that a more constructive move would be to have discussion of the Vietnam issue in the respect­
ive  classes,  rather  than  have  a  
boycott of these classes.  
Sara  said.  "I  signed  it  (the  

statement) because I think pres­sure should be put on whomever pressure should be put on." 
The theology majors have in the planning stage a Teach-In on the "moral aspects of the war." This is tentatively scheduled to take place on October 15, at approximately II :30 a.m. The Teach-In, however, is not in con­junction with the program plan­ned by the CPA. 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7,1969
PAGE 2 


Sero presents a distinctive collection of fall and winter dress shirts designed for today's Man-on-Campus. Meticulously tailored in no-iron, wrinkle-free Sero-Press of 65% DACRON® Polyester, 35% Cotton for a fresh all-day appearance. 
Available at: 
•DuPont registered trademark 
Riehle speaks toHPC on parietals' future 
(Continued from page 1) roaming the halls every week­end."
tion last year. He emphasized that the enforcement of viola­Riehle conceded that the pro­
tions was largely the responsibi­lity of each hall, and that the campus board would only be­come involved when two or more halls were part of the same violation. He was asked for an explanation of the reasoning be­hind the sign-in procedure. 
"The reasoning for the sign-ins is simple. No one under l 7 years old is allowed inside the dorms and without the sign-ins high school girls would be 
Ideal for 3 
Modern living, dining, bath 2 car garage 
Available immediately 1510 S. Webster 
cedure was not entirely consis­tent with the ideal of basing the program on the maturity of the students, and that the difficul­ties involved in finding people to man the desks for 24 hours each weekend could not be resolved easily. 
"It does seem to me that it makes a lot of sense to get rid of sign-ins sometime, but right now it's just impossible. I'm not going to get excited if somebody 
doesn't sign in his mother 
~------------­
PRE-LAW SOCIETY 
·Dean Thomas Fischer of the Georgetown University Law Center is scheduling interviews for 
prospective students on Thursday, October 9 at the Morris Inn 
Sign up for an appointment outside 

GILBERT'S ON THE CAMPUS NOTRE DAME, IND. 
@ Copyr1Qhl by Sero Ol New HaYen. Inc. 1964 
though." parietal program and its future 
Fr. Riehle also emphasized will be decided then. Fr. Riehle that the parietal system is still said that the manner in which on trial. He said that the trial the halls handle the reporting of will continue until the end of violations will be one of the this semester. The Student Life most important factors in deter­Council will meet sometime in mining the plans for the ·pro­January to discuss the whole gram's continuation. 
Tim McCarry 
Building Bridges 
A sad thing about the recent years' split within the Church, between "progressives" and "conservatives" on issues like birth 
control, liturgy, papal authority and clerical celibacy has been that neither side has shown much acceptance of the other as part of the same Body of Christ. It may be that the Church is only getting what it deserves for having become not just in the world, but ofit; but the cries of heresy from the Vatican, and many of the responding barbs from the National Catholic Reporter are hardly worthy of members of that ultimate "Christian community." This is not to say there are no grounds for division: the secular lovelessness of the "old Church", with its control of the Italian stock market, Near Eastern oil interests, and Chicago slumholdings make it hard to see the Spirit movingwithin the traditional framework. But the common reaction, of rejecting "institutional" religion per se ,along with the traditional egotistical and superficial pseudo-community of insecurityclinging to itself. One side verbalizes Christian ideals without practicing them; the other ends up in the worldliness it began by criticizing. What we need to build is a new unity of traditional awareness of Christ's message, applied to an independent analysis of reality. We may look to ritual-particularly the liturgy -as ~hat point of continuity with the past which, when humbly and lovingly practiced, has repeatedly led to new challenges and renewed awareness of what Jesus was doing and saying-some call it the working of the Spirit. At the same time we must reject the new Empire's propaganda, recognize and deal with violence, racism and exploitation, and the government, corporations, and universities which maintain them. Our attack here must not be only that of the secular critic (though there's much to learn from Marx and Cohn-Bendit), but from the orientation given us by the faith we claim to follow as Christians. There are at least two wrong ways of doing this. One would be re·n-ew[ng the self-righteous demands for "conversion", either by calling upon the new Christians to abandon their "deviations" or the old ones to leave their traditions and institutions. There's been enough of that already. We also need to avoid a superficial accomodation which ignores deeper divisions, such as the Pope's giving his jewel-studded tiara to the world's poor (it ended up with the church of America, of all places). On the other side, there is a real danger in having Masses and Roman collars at demonstrations unless the deep faith which gives them meaning is there also. A small beginning in searching for the right direction might be the following: October I 5 is to be a day on which students and faculty are asked to stop their "business as usual" and work-especially in, the non-academic communities--to stop the war. A group of Moreau seminarians, young South Bend parish priests, and lay ND-SMC people is looking for a large number of students and faculty to spend the morning and/or evening in one of six South Bend parishes. Those who can talk about the war, Christian radicalism, or resistance can do so in the schools in the morning, and in the church halls at night. Many more are needed, however, in the churches themselves-quietly sitting in vigils of witness, joining in evening prayer services for peace, or, praying the rosary for war dead with the "old ladies" we have in the past reacted against. Others can, if if they wish, distribute leaflets or copies of The Catholic Worker. It will be a lot easier to skip classes and maybe attend the moratorium rally or your favorite hall Mass where everybody gets along just fine. It will be more demanding, but perhaps especially worthwhile, to spend some of the time reaching past news reports of Notre Dame demonstrations, to begin new links which might help build sentiment to bring all the boys home now, and end the misunderstandings which divide Christians. (See your CPA hall rep, or call Pete Smith, 2884326.)  
NOTIC£ Students planning to student teach during St. Mary's College students go to Room 320 Madeleva HallSecond Semester, Notre Dam• students go to Room1969-70, must report by 1110 East, Memorial Library October 15th.  
Seniors, Grad Students and SMC Girls Nickel beer nite at the Alumni Club Today 5-7  

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1969 PAGE 3 
LETTER ••• 
Kelly replies to criticism of his work 
Dear Mr. Kendall and Mr. Smith, 
I am writing this in response to your column. You included a valuable criticism of last Mon­day's Observer article. However, I question the validity of your conclusions concerning the in­tentions and the methods of my 
commission. 
Before I outline my disagree­ments with the letter I would like to thank you for providing me this opportunity for rebuttal. Your manly gesture of providing me with a pre-publication copy of the tetter was a refreshing display of courtesy. 
As far as the Observer article is concerned I agree that it made my approach seem excessively condescending. The slight fac­tual inaccuracy of the article was not as crucial as was the incom­plete nature of the presentation. The article heavily emphasized the two most superficial points in my plans. These are the dis­cussions with South Hend citi­zens and the Notre Dame semin­ars. As a result the article did not adequately reflect n1y activi­ties, as I described them at the 
THE OBSERVER 
Donald Holliday, Publisher 
Gaetano De Sapio, Editor 
David Breen, Business manager 
News Editor: Glenn Corso 
Copy Editor: David Stauffer 
Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, 
Ann Conway, Laura Hafferd, Jeanne 

, Prudence Wear 

David Bach, John 
Design: Mary Chris 
John Di Cola, Tom 


Charlie's 


STEREO TAPES 
8 TRACK 
List$6.98 
Charlie's Price 
$5.88 2 
H.A.R.LXES 
I,"~ J U H 1'14 I..,. ... I'-11 \ 

OPEN DAILY 9 to 6 ·1 SAT. I a.m. to 5p.m. 
PH. 287•7218 

774 Lincoln Way East 
The Observer Is published dallyduring the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Milry's College. Sub<crlntlons may be purchased for $11 from The Observer Box 11, r~otre Dame, Ind., 46S56. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
CHIMES 
Needs Staff 
Or!-{ani::ational McetiiiR 
Ot.;t. 9, 6:30p.m. SMC Coffeehouse 


IDEA 
Ring ofTanzanite, a newly discovered blue gemstone, set with diamonds in platinum, t 375. 

:.TIFFANY&co. 
~k~:j:::::::::::::;:;:;:::::;.;:::;:;:;:;.;:;:;:;:;i;~i::;:;:; .. '. :·. 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. 
CHICAGO 

PHONE: 944-7500•ZIP: 60611 
Soles fax adcJilional 
Homesick? 
Treat a Friend 
for Half-Prke 

Now, through Oct. 14, this coupon lets you pay for a steak dinner at half-price when you have the first one at the regular low prices from$ .99 to $1.89. What a deal! Broiled to order, delicious. 
-~·····························-
-Coupon
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
tLACK ANGf/.r------.-----..
-
-
--STEAK HOUSE
-
-
-
-
-
-
-1516 N. Ironwood Dr. 
-
-
South of Campus between

-
. --South Bend Ave. & Edison Rd. 
. :• 
-
Coupon for Second Dinner of : Same value at Half-Price :Good only thru Oct. 14, 1969 
-
=······················· 
meeting. 

This sort of publicity docs more harm than good. No pub­licity is better than such inaccu-. rate reporting. As an indication 
of the degree to which the arti­
cle achieved inaccuracy, I was 
quoted as saying I was not a 
member of Student Govern­
ment. The facts are, however, 
quite the contrary. In fact I 
slated repeatedly at the meeting 
that I was a cabinet official. 
To describe my plans ade­quatcly would be too lengthy for this section of the newspa­per. Such an in-depth descrip­tion of my work is only possible in a full length article (i.e. an article of approximately the same length as was Monday's). Instead I would appreciate it if you two met with me at some time in the next week to discuss your criticisms. In view of the fact that the three of us have had extended personal contact in the past, I was disappointed that you voiced your criticism publicly before you asked me 
to clarify my alleged statements. of late August 1969 there were I appreciate and need honest no longer any plans extant to criticism from anyone interested attempt annexation. So unless in South Bend -Notre Dame af­there is a drastic reversal in fairs. I can be reached most present policies, Notre Dame afternoons and every Tuesday and South Bend will not be and Thursday morning at the physically unified in the near ~tudent Government office. I future. 
believe firmly in the value of my ,..---------------t 
com mission's activities and I would appreciate any assistance St. Louis Club in my efforts. 
Peter M. Kelly 
Meeting 

South Bend Relations Volunteer Services 
6:30 Tonight
P.S. As a point of information 
LaFortune Student Center
the South Bend City Govern­ment has changed its plans as regards annexation (under great pressure, I am led to believe). As 

All St. Louisans from ND and SMC urged to attend BABYSITTER 
will cure fur your children 
Smoker Saturday -Army Game 12:30-??7
daytime care. 
$2.00 ($1.00 club members)
1315 Lincolnway West Directions at Meeting 
Close to Notre Dame. 
"BuD•

Call 2 72-4509 

We'll send you the $1.69 size of Playtext first-day™ tampons for only 504. You get more than two months' supply free. 
r-----------------------------, 
There's no other tampon like  Playtex tampon was always  inch of you.  
Playtex. Outside, soft and silky,  more absorbent. Actually 45%  Once you try it, we think  
not cardboardy. Inside, so extra  more absorbent on the average  you'll love it. That's why we're  
absorbent, it even protects on  than the leading regular  making you this special"two  
your first day. That's why we  tampon because of the unique  months free" offer.  
call it the first-day tampon.  way it's made. Actually adjusts  So go ahead. Use the couporl  
In every lab test against the  to you. Flowers out, fluffs out,  and get more than two months'  
old cardboardy kind, the  protects every inside  supply free.  
•eased on the ~~eraflt>  woman's use ol ten tampons per month.  

Here's 50¢ for my more than two months' supply of Playtex tampons. Send in a plain brown wrapper, please. 
0 Regular 0 Super 
Name----------------~----~------~------------­
{please prtnt) 
Address____________________________________________ 
City_____________________State__________Zi P-----­
M_ail coupon to: International Playtex Corporation,_Dept. WV, 350 Filth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10001. Offer exp1res December 31, 1969. Please allow four weeks for delivery. 
L-----------------------------~
tPiaytex i$ the trademark of lnternat1onal Playtex Corp., Dover, Del. c 1969 Inte-rnational PlayteK Corp. 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1969
PAGE4 

Hanratty Seymour have gone, perhaps Theismann and Gatewood can take their places. Joe (top left) had a splendid passing day and Gatewood (bottom) caught ten of his throws for ISS yards and a touchdown. Tom is now the leading Irish receiver with IS catches for 208 yards. (Top right) Fullback Kermit Smith was the only successful MSU ballcarrier. On drawplays and off-tackle plunges (as shown with qb Bill Triplett) he gained 7 4 yards in 16 carries. The entire Spartan ground attack netted only 125_ yards in 43 carries. 
Defensive stats 
TM TL PBU FR Bob Olson 47 4-48 Mike McCoy 35 4-16 2 Mike Kadish 28 4-25 Tim Kelly 28 1-8 Larry Schumacher 27 2-20 Walt Patulski 22 1-4 
Clarence Ellis 13 2 John Gasser 13 3 Fred Swendsen 13 1-1 1 John Raterman 9 1 
Chuck Zloch 9 
Jim Wright 6 
Brian Lewallen 5 Ralph Stepaniak 5 Mike Eckman 3 Don Reid 2 Rick Thomann 2 Eric Patton 2 1-9 Mike Eckman 3 OFFENSE 2 
NOTRE DAME 18-131 13 OPPONENTS 10-62 16 5 
.. 





Booter mark I 
The Irish hooters demon­strated a tenacious defense and a ball control offense as they out­lasted Toledo 2-l on Saturday. The Gaels played so tight to their opponents from across the Toll road that the visitors could manage just 5 shots at ND goalie Maury Brie. (Last week Purdue had 23 shots on goal.) 
The Irish opened the scoring in the first period on a bulls-eye by Tim Patton off a Thor Paul­sen assist. This lead held up until half time. Then in the third frame Lazlo Koltay made good on a free kick aided by an Irish mistake to knot the score. Late in the fourth stanza John Amato 
0 
~ 
0 
Ill 
~ 
a.. 
> 
1:> 
"'0 
0 
l: 
a.. a:: 
UJ 
>
a:: 
UJ 
Ill Ill 
0 
-I 
set up Fred Rohol for the game winning kick. 
It should be added that Ken Foley played a stellar field game for the Notre Dame squad as they evened their record at 1-1. Foley helped in controlling the offense which got off 11 shots at the Toledo goal. 
The Irish hope to get on the bright side of the .500 mark next weekend with two must games. On Saturday they travel to Evanston, Ill., to play the Wildcats of Northwestern,, and then to Valparaiso for a Sunday match. Next horne game for the Booters is a week from tomor­row against Goshen. 

FRESHMAN BASKETBALL TRYOUTS Tues. Oct. 7 7:00PM Theater ofAthletic and Convocation Center For all freshmen who wish to try out for basketball.  
HOMECOMING '69 QUEEN CONTEST 1. ALL ENTRIES MUST INCLUDE: A.) ONE WALLET-SIZE PHOTO OF YOUR LOVELY LITTLE LADY WITH HER NAME AND SCHOOL LISTED ON THE BACK. B.) BE SURE TO INCLUDE YOUR NAME AND LOCAL ADDRESS. 2. ENTRIES MUST BE SUBMITTED BY MAIL TO: QUEEN CONTEST HOMECOMING '69 BOX427 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556 3. ALL ENTRIES MUST BE RECEIVED BY J\fiDNITE FRIDAY, OCT. 17, 1969 PICTURES OF FINALISTS WILL APPEAR IN THE OBSERVER ON MONDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1969, WITH VOTING FOR THE 1969 HOMECOMING QUEEN IN THE DINING HALLS THAT EVENING  




