


N D profs propose draft amendment 
by Dave Lammers 
Professors William Lewers, C.S.C., and Thomas Schaeffer of the Law School, and Professor Charles McCarthy of the 
Program for the Study and Practice of Non-violent Resolution of Human Conflict, are in the process of drafting an amendment to the present draft law. The amendment would allow selective conscientious objectors-those people who oppose a particular war on a non-religious basis--to be included in the conscientious objector classifical ion of the present draft law. Presently, the conscientious objector deferment is limited to those 
who  oppose  all  war  on  a  
religious basis.  
The amendment  would  be  a  

simple one-line addition to the present draft law. However, the lawyers have been doing extensive work on the legal .Precedents involved in the draft law change, The history of selective conscientious objection in the United States and Europe has also been investigated for the bill which should be finished by 
Thursday · Students on campus are presently engaged in startingwrite-in campaigns in favor of 
the draft change to the student· even if the proposed lottery IS body presidents and campus passed by the Congress, the newspaper editors around the proponents of the draft change country. Last minute attempts said. Professor Charles McCarthy 
to start a petition drive this weekend in Washington are being made by Notre Dame students travelling there. It is hoped by the students involved 
in the proposal that student support for a selective C.O. law can be organized here at Notre Dame and around the nation. Presently on the agenda of the 
Supreme Court is a case appealed by the federal government from the First Circuit Court of Appeals. In that court Judge Wyszanski declared that an atheist could receive the 
C.O. classification. Wyszanski decided that it was in violation •of the First Amendment to the Constitution to base the C.O. status on religion only. 
The National Students Association, whose local representative is Mike Shaugnessy, has decided to reschedule its national steering committee meeting, originally planned for Thanksgiving, for next Sunday, so that the 
d d f h b

propose ra t c ange can e discussed. The s e I e c t i v e c. 0. amendment would be effective 

Stay Senator Tom Thrasher SBP Phil McKenna 
Senate deliberates on Afro -American budget 
by Steve Hoffman 
The Student Senate convened last evening for the primary purposes of resolving the controversial Afro-American budget, and of finalizing a decision on the proposed 
University Forum. 
Due to the great amount of 
dissent touched off by 
disagreements concerning the 
A fro -American budgetary 
allowance, the issue was referred 
to the Human Affairs Committee for in-depth study· At the last meeting, Tom Thrasher, as Chairman of the dissent than already exists, ana suggested that it should strike a middle ground on the budget. 

SBVP Fred Dedrick then moved that a sum of $2500 be allotted to the Afro-American Society, claiming that the blacks deserve the funds in order to conduct minority enrollment, provide for black cultural functions open to all students, and generally effect a better understanding between the 
races. The motion, as proposed by Dedrick was carried by a vote of 24-17. 
A resolution for the approval 

said, "Mr. Kingman Brewster isl. mistaken. Today's youth see the lottery alone as no improvement. They know it is at best a superficial smoke screen. The root issue, being forced to kill against conscience-being forced to destroy human beings when this is seen as neither right nor good nor just-this issue is 
'accidentally' being ignored. A lottery without selective conscientious objector provision is just a callous and gross disrespect of the conscience of the American youth." 
Wide support for a selective 
C.O. law has arisen among church circles in the past year. The United States Council of Bishops in November of 1968 said: "We urge the modification of the draft law, making it ,possible, although not easy, for: 
persons to be selective • 
conscientious objectors, without fear of imprisonment or loss of citizenship." Right-wing theologians John Courtney
M urrav and Paul Ramsey have 
endorsed the selective C.O.
F. t sAS
1rS 
by Jim Graif and Rich Smith 
The Student Affairs Sub­committee of the Board of Trus­tees met yesterday in what was termed an organizational meeting. The committee deter­mined its members and the basic course of action it will follow for the year. 
The subcommittee will consist of fourteen members. These include eight trustees: Dr. Thomas Carney, chairman, Mr. Paul Helmuth, Mr. J.W. Van Gorkom, Mr. Newton Minnow, Fr. Charles McCarragher, c.s.c., 
Mr.  John  Schneider,  Mr.  John  
Ryan,  and  Mr.  Leonard  
Skogland.  

The four undergraduate students on the subcommittee are: Student Body President Phil McKenna, Student Body Vice-President Fred Dedrick, Afro-American Society President Arthur MacFarland, and Research and Development Commissioner John Zimmerman. The two graduate 
dasstftcahon. The World Council ·of Churches, The National Conference of Christians and Jews, and various Protestant church organizations have also 
indicated the need for a selective C.O.lawintheU.S. 
Professor McCarthy emphasized the necessity of the selective C.O. proposal. He said, "How can the moral fibre of the country be anything but ripped asunder when the government itself, by a simple exercise of brute power, forces a large' 

segment of its youth-by penalty or threat orpenalty-torejecta primary tenet of conscience, 'Thou shalt not murder,' that is, kill unjustly." 
I 
Prof. McCarthy proposes draft amendment 
. n eve n tfuI
SeS S I 0 n U 

students on the subcommittee are Dave Foltz and John Quenneville. 
Dr. Carney outlined the three major objectives of the subcommittee. First, the committee will try to identify problems in the student affairs area. They plan ·to discuss issues which are relevant to student affairs. Second, the committee will ·collect information which deals with the subject being discussed. Finally, the committee will make recommendations to the legislative bodies of the university, 
Student members of the committee presented various areas of student affairs which they felt should be discussed by the committee including curriculum reform which was discussed by the committee yesterday. The bulk of the discussion was carried on by the student members of the committee who presented the 
capsule conclusions of the Curriculum Reform Committee. The general consensus of the group was that most students are dissatisfied with the present 
setup.  However,  the  
subcommittee  made  no  
recommendations  since  it  was  
merely  intended  as  a  get  
acquainted meeting.  

At the next meeting, which will be held in January before finals, the committee will discuss co-education at Notre Dame. Hall life and black-white relations will be the two topics discussed at the March and May meetings respectively. 
Dr. Carney explained that the subcommittee will discuss one subject per each day-long session which will last from eight to nine hours. 
The future meetings will follow the same procedure of having a closed session followed by an open session and a question and answer session. The 
(continued on page 2) 

Committee, addressed the of the University Forum as • Senate last night and admitted introduced at a prior meeting by 
that an acceptable solution for Fr. Hesburgh was then brought 
the Society had not been to the floor. The resolution 
reached. h contained the provisions that the 
Thrasher stated . that t e Senate should accept the Forum 
t we Ive-man Com~mttee_ ha~ as proposed by llesburgh, and 
emerged from consJdera~JOn. 0 that the Senate should review 
the budget with twelve dJffenng the Forum's operation at the 
· · s Therefore, he . h
0 

P ~ n 1? nd · th t the Senate end of this academic year for t e 

m am tame a . d page 8) f h B d f T · · t d y
should not provoke any more (contmue on Sub-committee for Student Affairs o t e oar o rustees m open sessron yes er a 
-
,-­
PAGE 2 



Sophomore merger okayed 
by Ann Conway 
Last night at a meeting in Carroll Hall, the newly formed combined assembly of the Notre Dame, St. Mary's Sophomore Classes voted to ratify a new constitution. This move completed the merger of the two classes begun in September. 
The vote to ratify the document, 36-3 with 7 absentations, came after discussion was completed on a rationale for the merger presented by Greg Stepic, an assembly member. 
Stepic stated that "the new Constitution says nothing. Class government has done nothing in past years for the class or student government as a whole. We owe a reason why we exist to our class and to the university.'' 
According to Stepic's rationale, the merger can only be justified by a two-fold argument: "one, that the members of the Assembly feel there is no organization on campus capable of reaching the individual student, and two, that every member should have an equal opportunity to express his opinions in regard to issues whichaffecthisdailylife." 
Discussion on the proposed rationale centered on the actual need to merge the two classes and the benefit each class would attain through merging. The motion to pass the rationale was defeated 24-8 after it was brought out that the Constitution itself contained the goals of the merger and thus it , was not necessary to present the 

.-----------------~----------~--~------. 


Big Label 
Budweiser~ 
KINO OP: BI!I!"S 
~~_.~~_Aon,/4 ~~.opl-~mut$~~d 
THE lARGEST-SELLING BEER IN THE WORLD 
~-~k: 
ST. LOUIS NEWARK LOS ANGELES HOUSTON 
Read the label and you'll get the message: 
Budweiser is the bestreason in the world to drink beer 
goals in another form. 

After ratification of the Constitution, the question of the necessity of a rationale for a merger was brought up again and was again defeated due to a lack of 2/3 majority. Susan Way, SMC sophomore President, abstained stating that "This merger is an experiment. If we hitpeoplewithprinciples,ideals, and rationales, it won't work. They need something concrete or something which proves of service to them to show them the success of the experiment.'' 
Joe Stankus, ND Sophomore 
President, disagreed with Susan, 
and voted for the rationale 
stating, "I feel we need to show 
the class that we are going in 
some direction. We need a goal, 
and that's what the rationale was 
-a statement of our goals." 
Another question brought up 
after the ratification was the 
question of the finances of the! 
merged class. Discussion 

Pres. Joe Stankus 
centered on the understanding of the St. Mary's representatives as to the disposal of the $900 presently in the treasury. One St. Mary's representative asked to be allowed to change her vote for the Constitution statin11 thllt ~the girls she represented would, never have agreed to the Constitution if they had known that the $900 would go into a combined treasury for the use of both Notre Dame and St. Mary's. A vote was taken on the misrepresentation of the Treasury issue at which time two members changed their votes for 
Pres. Sue Way 

the constitution changing the original vote from 38-3 with 5 abstentions to 37-3 with 7 abstentions. 
Stankus, who voted against the ratification of the Constitution as representative of Holy Cross Hall, stated that "Personally I am completely for the merger. This experiment will work. The reason why it is Jagging at present is that it is caught on teachnicalities which were alleviated at tonight's meeting and should run more smoothly with the ratification of the Constitution." 


Veteran's Day marked by parade 
(UPI)-Americans observed 
Veterans Day yesterday with tra­
ditional ceremonies honoring the 
nation's war dead and coast to 
coast shows of support for Presi­
dent Nixon's policies to end the 
war in Vietnam. 

Members of what the Presi­
dent has called "the great silent 
majority" worked to turn an 
often ignored national holiday 
into a massive public demonstra­
tion of faith in how the govern­
ment is handling peace efforts. 
Thousands of Americans turn­
ed out for parades and ceremon­
ies, drove cars with headlights 
turned on and flew the flag in 
front of their homes and busi­
nesses. 

The accent on support of the nation's 1969 fighting men andr the government's policies in Vietnam was heightened by anti­war demonstrators' plans for a new round of "Moratorium Day" activities in Washington ·and across the country later this 
week. 

Nixon and his wife, Pat, spent an hour chatting and joking with patients at the local Veterans Administration hospital, and a presidential wreath was laid at 
the Tomb of the Unknowns at Arlington. 
The President visited the 
veterans hospital because, as he 
had said earlier. he wanted to 
"let them know that the nation 
has not forgotten their service and sacrifices." 
Expression of Unity 
"The unity that has always been the bedrock of America needs expression today more than at any time in the past 

One Dav Service NO EXTRA CIIARGH Dry Cleaning Shirt Laundry 
With each $1.50 of dry cleaning you receive a coupon worth 25 cents at McDonald's! 
410 N. Michigan Street 
century," said Donald E. John-1 son, administrator of veterans affairs, before a full crowd of 3,0 0 0 persons waving tiny American flags at the Arlington Cemetery amphitheatre. 
Opponents of Nixon's Viet­nam peace plan, Johnson said "would have others think that they alone understand and abhor the suffering and savagery of war. They do an injustice to America's 40 million veterans 
living and dead." ' 
Freedom Rally 

At the Washington Monu­ment, site of a planned mass rally of antiwar demonstrators on Saturday, several thousands more took part in a "freedom rally for freedom in Vietnam and in all the world." 
Rep. John Buchanan, R-Ala., said he was convinced that Nixon's policy would succeed and added: "Both the strength and the virtue of the Saigon regime have been greatly under· estimated by its critics." 
SubcommiHee's first session marked by quiet discussion 
(continued from page 1) 
intervals between the meetings will allow the members to consider the next subject to be discussed. 
After the report on the meeting, the session was thrown open for questions, which were limited to issues surrounding academic reform, contrary to the previous reports that ques­tions would be totally open in nature. 
The first question concerned the possible overlapping of the responsibility of the Student Life Council's jurisdiction with that of the Student Affair's Sub­committee. Dr. Carney replied that the subcommittee's role was not that of decision making but rather of submitting recom­mendations to the Board of Trustees. Hence, there would be no conflict between the SLC and the subcommittee. 

Next, the question concerning the over-emphasis on small is­sues such as parietal hours was brought up. The questioner asked why the parietal hours issue was never forgotten and more far reaching questions con­sidered. Dr. Carney replied that his subcommittee never con­sidered the parietal hours ques­tion. 
He said that the subcommit­
tee would consider only those 
issues which the students con­
sider important. McKenna do is to get hung up on an issue like parietal hours." 

The power of the subcommit­

tee and its recommendations was 
questioned by on student. Dr. 
Carney reiterated that his sub­
committee's role would be ad­
visory, though the role would be 
an influentail one. 
Speaking privileges was the next order of business. Carney said that the committee's size was deliberately limited to four­teen people, but that anyone who had any information which might contribute to the subcom­mittee's making a mere rational decision would be demanded to appear before the snbcommittee and speak. 
The subcommittee will act as the Board of Trustee's screening committee as well as recommending committee, according to Carney. Speakers will have to submit position papers before their speeches so that the members will have more knowledge of the subject to be discussed. 
Dr. Carney felt that since all of the members are interested in working on the subcommittee, they could play a significant part in university affairs. He also felt that having four students on the Student Affairs committee is preferable to having four students sit on the Board of Trustees. 
r---~~x~~~~~~~M~cD~UE~·s~--~~--a~d~d~e~d~,_"~T~h~e~w~o~r~st~th~t~·n~g~w~e_c~a=n~--~T~h-e-O~b~--~-e-r~is--pu~b~l~im~ed~d~a~il~y 
New Jersey CJub 
THANKSGIVING BUS SALES -CHRISTMAS PLANE SALES Wednesday November 12 7-8 PM Coke Bar Rathskellar 
during the college ~mester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Ob~~er. Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage aid. Notre Dame Ind., 46556. 


PAGE 3 




No action planned against orderly GE protest 
by Mark Walbran 
The demonstration against the General Electric Company's interviews staged yesterday out­side the Notre Dame Placement Bureau was a small but orderly protest. The picketers at most once numbered 25, but usually only eight to ten protesters were outside the bureau at one time. 
"In this country there have been very few students involved with the workers' cause," said Chuck Leone, acting Chairman of the Coalition for Political Action (C.P.A.) which spear­headed the protest. 
Leone hoped that the 

C:tudents l)icket GE recruiters in Administration building yesterday. 
Moon voyagers ready to go Friday 
CAPE KENNEDY (UPI)­Apollo 12's astronauts eased off their rigorous training schedule yesterday and got a go ahead from weathermen for their Fri­day blastoff to the moon. Miss­ion commander Charles "Pete" 
Conrad, Richard F. Gordon and Alan L. Bean spent much of the day relaxing in their quarters and reviewing flight plans for their journey. The space fliers were confident they are ready for the risk¥ ten day mission. 
"We've been ready to go for a long time," Gordon said recently. 
"I think we're well enough trained. If the hardware holds

together and we don't have too ,---__;_________::__ ___:_:_:______:_:_:_.=..:.:..._______ 
many problems, I think we'll be able to do the job." 
At the oceanside launch pad where the 36 story combination of the Saturn 5 rocket and the 

Mental Health Association Meeting 
7:45 PM 123 Nieuland Thursday, Nov. 13, 1969 

All members please come. We will discuss Mardi Gras Christmas Drive and other future plans. ' 



IHI lilA HUT EAT ltl •••OR CARRY.OUT SERVICE 
Good At Pizza Hut No. 1 llftli'IMAill w1TH nc South Bond 
.Z:::-01',:;.
1738 L.W.E. 
Pizza Hut No. 2 South Bend 2307 E. EdiSOII Elkhart Plz:za Hut 1~00 Naponee St. 

spacecraft was poised in its ser­vice tower, ground crews had a 16 hour rest period before acti­vating the spacecraft fuel cell batteries early today, a critical 
step in pre-launch preparations. 
Conrad, Bean and Gordon are scheduled to blastoff at 11:22 
a.m. EST Friday on America's second moon landing mission, which Conrad calls "the opener of the next generation." · 
Weathermen forecast satisfac­tory conditions at launch time despite a cold front expected to It.ove through central Florida Tltumday. The prediction is for partly cloudy skies, moderate northerly winds and a te.mpera­
picketing would shed light on· the university's relationship with 
its  own  workers.  He  said  that  
their attempts  to  unionize  had  
proved futile.  

The picketers distributed lit­erature explaining their alliance with G.E. workers. Another mimeographed leaflet they handed out listed G.E.'s trans­gressions against laborers. 
Leone said that the G.E. re­presentatives and about two-thirds of the students picked up their information. 
John Mcinerney, a senior· in Aerospace Engineering who was ture ot around 60 degrees. 
Mission plans call for the as­tronauts to orbit the earth once after blastoff, and during their second orbit to fire the Saturn's third ·stage engine a second time to put them on course to the moon. 
Conrad, the 39 year old veter­an of two Gemini spaceflights, and Bean-the youngest of the trio at 37-should land on the 
moon in the middle of the night; at 1:53 a.m. EST Nov. 19, fora 32 hour stay that will include two walks on the lunar' surface. 
They head home Nov. 21 for a splashdown in the Pacific Ocean Nov. 24. 
interviewed by the 1;.E. rep­resentatives, said that the de­monstrators were free to protest but that "the whole thing was built up out of proportion." Mcinerney added that there was nothing unusual about a com­pany going on strilce when con­tracts were up for renewal. He said that he doubted if the people striking were starving with the wages they now receive. 
Fr. James Riehle, Dean of Students, said that the picketing ·,vas not registered with him. This is in violation of the Univer­sity rule which requires that all demonstrations be reeistered 
with the Dean's office. He did not know whether any action would be taken against the demonstrators, however. 
Riehle said that the demon­strathn was "not a big thing and nothing to get excited about." He added that it had n()t been disn:ptive. 
Mr. Arthur N. Pears, IJirec~or of· Security, said yesterday that he had no comment on the demonstration. "As far as I can see," he said, they aren't,,bother­ing anyone." 

Fr. Louis J. Thornton, Dire:.:tor of the Placement Bu­reau said he had no comment on the picketing either. "We don't know what this thing is going to 
develop  into  today,"  he  ex­ 
plained.  
The  picketers  began  the  

demonstration yesterday morn­ing at eight o'clock. Leone said the demonstration would con­tinue until four o'clock in the afternoon. 
• I'lL\. • 
't!OIII AHIAD fOI PAlm IIRVICI 

WEDNESDAY,NOVEMBER1~1969
PAGE 4 711E OBSERfiER. 


THE OBSERVER l 
An Independent Student Newspaper
.FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3 19 


Draft law 

Three Notre Dame lawyers have written a bill that would amend the current draft law so that a person could obtain conscientious objector status on the basis of moral objections to a particular war. Under the present draft law, a person can obtain the C.O. classification only if he is opposed to all war, and if his pacifism is based on his religious beliefs. 
The present law. we believe, ignores a great many men who are not total Pacifists or are not members of a particular religion, but do object to a particular war on the grounds that they believe it to be unjust, and who base their objections on moral arguments not connected to a particular religion. In short, we believe it to be imperative that the government respect the individual's right not to kill, ir' h"s ,;onscic'"lc~ ~~on.;iciers tin:; ;... i:L._,; tc 1r P •jP':t aJ,ci i-:-~':""''Jr?l. The conscience of the atheistic humanist must be protected under the law just as is the conscience of the Mennonite or the Quaker. Presently, the selective conscientious objector has no legal protection under the draft law. He may voice his moral objection by tearing up his draft card risking prison and social ostracism, he may leave the country, he may perjure himself by claiming a religious foundation to his objection, he may hope to hide his moral objection by joining the ranks of those who hold educational or occupational deferments, or he may violate his conscience anoparticipate in the war that he has judged unjust. None of these alternatives 
·"V'know, you were right. War IS big business!" 
.allow for the honest expression of the nature of his objection. 

The legal provisions that now protect the individual consciences of some must be extended to include all conscientious objectors. so that those who object to a war will not 

Letter 
be forced to circumvent or violate the law in order to follow the dictates of their 
Editor: 

And that the Administration has 
conscience. 
It has been a little over two 

repeatedly failed to recognize
All thinking persons have the obligation to judge the morality of a war that their months since I entered these the Black community. Also l country participates in. Those called upon to fight the war have a special duty to decide. hallowed and sacred halls. I can found out that there was a As Thoreau said, "we cannot turn our consciences over to the legislators." The Church still remember my first glimpse special orientation for the Black 
of the Golden Dome, the ivy Notre Dame Freshmen, and a
has said in Schema XIII of the Vatican Council that all Catholics must determine that a 
covered walls, and the University hall which housed the Black 
war is just before participating in it. By "just" the Council members said that the war 
itself. I was excited beyond community. I again asked, must be based on the proper authority of the state, the war must have a just cause, and words. "Why?" only to receive the the means of waging the war must be proportionate to the cause. To fight in a war that a From the moment I sent in stereotyped answer:~ because of my application I lived for Notre
Catholic conscientiously considers unjust is in violation of conscience and therefore the Problem. It was also rumor­
Dame. I had heard that this 

ed that there was to be a Black school was a gateway for quality Arts Festival for only the 
immord. 
Host of the European nations, including Germany, have had selective conscientious education, for tremendous foot­members of this communityobjector laws for some time. In America, many and various religious groups, including the ball games, but, first and fore­who happened to be Black. And American Catholic Bishops, have called for a selective C.O. law. most, for the type of student finally this situation has been 
who came here. They were

The Observer supports the action on the part of Professors William Lewers, Thomas brought to a climax with the 
quality men -alive and dyna­

recent controversy concerning
Schaeffer, and Charles McCarthy, to give protection to the right of the individual to exert 
mic. They were interested

men the Afro-American -society.
and express his conscience by amending the present draft law to include selective in their own advancement as a 
After voting not to allocate a
conscientious objectors. person, a human invididual; and 
certain sum of money, their
Conspiracy Seven also that They
of others. were 

president blasted the Senate as · 1 · d · t · t h C · E" h (M" friendly, easy to talk to, and being unfair -and turned a
The prosecution 1s p anmng to en Its argumen s agams t e ,onspuacy Ig t mus always eager to help you. TLe)­
monetary issue into one of a
• One) late this week or early next week. The defense, despite the fact that Mayor Ddey will carried with them an "electrify­
racial issue. And lastly a com­
be one of the first witnesses called, may be anti-climactic. ing spirit" that charged anyone 
mittee was instructed to review Bobby Seale has had a mistrial declared after being convicted of 16 charges of contempt who came in contact with them. their case, not just in the light of 
and has been sentenced to four years in prison. Judge Julius Hoffman apparently tired And I wanted desperately to money, but the "whole" Prob­become one of them. But, now,
being called a "racist" and a "pig" by Seale. after being here for awhile, the lem. 
It is here I am forced to take

The force of Seale's comments could have been softened however if Hoffman had allowed curtains of disillusionment are· 
pen in hand and renounce this
Seale's request to defend himself in the absence of his lawyer, who is recuperating from an drawing aside. I am told of a 
nauseating and repulsive idea of 
operation. Seale repeatedly declared that William Kunstler, the chief defense lawyer for the Problem -racism. a Problem. Black communities. other seven defendants, did not represent him. Kunstler agreed. Hoffman blindly refused to This problem is being echoed White communities. I came to in my hall, in my classes, in' t lis school to be a part of the
recognize the fact. the Senate, and in the verbal 
Notre Dame community. A
When Seale tried to cross-examine witnesses in his own defense, Hoffman had Seale outbursts of many fellow ND 
community made of people ­restrained. At one point in the trial Hoffman had Seale bound and gagged. students. At first, I naively not segments of colored skin. I The net result is that Seale will now be represented by his own lawyer at a new trial in asked: What is the problem? did not bring this Problem here April, which is exactly what Seale asked for in the first place. How did it start? but more with me. I never accepted it, nor ' It might be said that Judge Hoffman is guilty only of bad judgement. But this is exactly importantly, Why is it here on do I want to now: I will never be 
my campus? The answers :.re divided among people. I call on
the thing that the defendants are seeking. The tactics they are employing in the courtroom' slow in coming, and to the 
my fellow Freshmen to re­are essentially the same as those that sparked their arrests. They seek to engender sympathy unexperienced Freshmen, are nounce this Problem which is for their cause by making the government and those who administer its policies look foolish. very hard to comprehend, if not being jammed down our throats. The sad thing is that the government has not yet learned to apprecicate this fact. TLe totally ambiguous. We cof"le And I also ask the Presidents of 
here not to forget Watts, Har­this student body and C1e
Walker Report criticized Mayor Daley for being inflexible in his handling of the convention !em, and riots; but to show that 
Afro-American society and all
demonstrations. It also criticized the police for overreacting to provocations, such as those they do not have to exist here.. 
other Problem "makers" to keepof which the defendants are accused, and being part of a police riot. Maybe we expected too much? their Problem, and leave us This week, the Nixon Administration has been dickering over the details fo the My attention was brought to unprejudiced and unfamiliar ~Ioratorium demonstration just as Mayor Daley did in 1968. And incredibly, Deputy the Problem intia~ly by my Freshmen to forming the real Attorney General Richard Kleindienst one of the chief negotiators, admits that he hasn't ~tudent Body Pre_sident. Rc~d­Notre Dame community. And I 
mg The Observer, Jt quoted h1m earnestly ask, and seek, all 
even read the Walker report. as saying that he felt he was 
others interested in supporting
We are amazed that supposedly intelligent people could miss the significance of these unable to represent the White the "Golden Dome" image to tactics and over react to the point where their policies become inconsistent with the tenets community and the Black reject the Problem. And then we of the justice and fair play that their positions should symbo:ize. community both. I was then can prove this is one community 
We are also amazed that the Judicial process, which is supposed to be a model of integrity _inf~~med of the so_-called, "un---the men of Notre Dame. 
· · · · h f JUst Black StudiCs Program Steve Jeselnick
and neutrality, c~uld be bullied mto mistakes. Some people content t at the results o the which has not, as yet, started. 
209 Breen-Phillips

trial will most hkely be overturned and an appeal granted. All because of. the lack of foresight and intransigence of a 74-year old judge. David Breen, Business Manager i=eatl.!res Editor: Dave Stauffer We hope the Justice Department and all government officials will strive to be flexible Timothy J. Dineen Ad. Mgr. SMC News Editor: Prudence Wear · News Editor: Glen Corso 
when dealing with those members of society that are alienated from our current structures. Associate Editors: Cliff Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin 
If not they will continue to look foolish in the eyes of the world and will only serve to Wintrode, Ann Conway, Laura Night Editor: Cliff Wintrode Layout Design: Marty Tieber
further alienate those people who oppose current governmental and judicial procedures. Haterd, Jeanne Sweeney 
Headlines: Rich Smith, Phil Schatz
Perhaps there is more at stake-for if those procedures and structures continue to prove Layout Editor: Mary Beth 
~rim mons Layout: · Charlie Myers, Marilyn unsympathetic to the feelings of the people that they are supposed to be serving they ma~.r Photo Editor: Phil Bosco Becker. Mary Ellen Burke soon full. ~----------~-------------------------------' 
PAGE 5
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1969 

TilE OBSERIIIIt 
/Life, love, and Iitter at the res tau rant 

by ::en WaIsh 
You can get just about anything you want from Alice's Restaurant in the way of satire, tragedy, sex with and without loVl', and some action and music ·on the side. Hut you are almost certain to leave it with the knowledge you've seen and had a good time. Arlo's arrest scene and his draft induction escapade are two of thl· funniest hits of film I have seen in a long time. Arlo's "tolerative-cool" in his dealings with Barney Fife of Stockbridge was a perfect attitude. lie tolerated the entire farcical situation as he shot out one-liners, breaking up the audience, along with his matter-of-fact relation of the whole scene, especially Obie's re­moval of the seat of his cell's toilet stool to prevent Arlo's suicide (over littering? 
I feel like I'm walking up a down escalator occupied by every Notre Dame student who has set foot in LaFortune's Student Center. f-~esi;~nations seem to be the thing this year, and as a result of the latest round of good-byes at the Observer' office, I find myself -moted (there has been considerable discussion as to whether pro-or de-is the proper prefix here) to a position which everyone but myself realized involved too much work to handle. 
As is true with everyone else who starts optimistically into something new, I have great designs in mind and on paper which, if nurtured into reality, will undoubtedly send ·TIC following the footsteps of Tom Ehrbar (remember?) to New York and the glories he has described as a winner of the Pulitzer. 
Fortunately, the publisher granted me two free days this week before I was forced last night to begin work in earnest. Today's lead is a review of one of the more worthwhile movies to be screened at a South Bend theatre this year. The author, Ken Walsh, never did actually volunteer to write the review. He just seems to know what he's doing in his reviews written for English courses, so it was only natural that the newly named features editor, searching for material to fill a page, would turn to the person sitting next to him in the theatre and say "Write a review." 
Also appearing today is a preview of Friday's performance of Louisville's West End Players. The work involved in bringing this troupe to Notre Dame began with a !etter sent by Rich Rossie in February of last school year. Although the actors are not professionals and are all of high f.chool age, their previous performances across the ..litiwl·st have been greeted with very favorable notices. 
If nothing else, the articles upcoming on the features page at least promise variety. Marilyn Becker, erstwhile pen;cptionist of the Ehrbarian Era, has Come on, Obie!) 
The draft induction scene was pain­fully funny. especially after yesterday's touch football game. In this episode of our hero's journeys, he exudes a "confused-cool." He doesn't know which line to fall into, but he knows they want him at Whitehall Street and they'll keep him there until they're done with him. Why sweat it?Let them group him where they Want. 
There are too many high points in these scenes to single out many of them because they arc on such high comic plateaus. These scenes are accompanied by smaller bites, many one-liners, and a few one and two digitals that' keep the !aug! level high. 
But all uppers come with their own downers. The film is honest enough to 
promised to continue contributions on life at St. Mary's. Sue Bury, the liberated woman, will officially enter the life of features with a look at Notre Dame's co-ex cheerleading corps. 
Pat Clinton has robbed the mail and come up with a lengthy letter written by John Yurko to Frank Zappa, formerly of the Mothers of Invention. This interesting lament over a new album will appear soon. Clinton himself mentioned that several long awaited discs have recently been released and are in need of review by those ir the know, although I'ni still anxious to hear something on the latest creation of the Led Zeppelin. Also in the field of music, review of Mick Jagger and Co. in Chicago should appear next week. 
Mark Walbran, who was quietly stolen from Glen Corso's news staff last week will provide his impressions of the D.c: moratorium activities, if he doesn't decide to stay there. As a pre-moratoriu'll offering Larry Overlan will re-examine our President's November 3 speech on Vietnam. 
Friday will see the re-appearance of Notre Dal]le's man with a mission, Tom Ehrhar. Because we are able to print Jim Murray of Los Angeles on the sports page, clearance has also been obtainerl to cable in U1e nrofound thoughts of Ehrbar from New York. 
In sum, reviews, previews and humor, the mainstays of the features, will remain. I hope also to add serious comment by knowledgeable people in just about every area imaginable. The best thing about a features page is that it excludes only current reported news, editorials, and sports. So if you have a particular area of interest which demands the exploratory talents of yourself or someone else call write, or run to the Observer offic~ unJ 
let someone know about it. 
-Dave Stauffer Features Editor 

show that life in the "Church in the Wood" is not all that heavenly, mainly because it is still inhabited by humans. These humans have the same qualities that have made all utopias impossible, and most "loving communities": passion and possession, and an inability to face life as it is, as portrayed by Shelly. 
Communal living may work out, but it doesn't look like communal loving will, even if you're all brothers and sisters living in a church. IT's still somebody's church, if you read it that way, and you can read it that way or find your own book. 
Everyone's moving, but no one's getting any place, from the country to the city and back again. They take the remains of a feast into the city to be dumped, and bring back the remains of a friend, neatly packaged in his own perpetual garbage can. They move o~ motorcycles and horses, in micro-buses and flower cars, and although they run over different roads and courses, they all end in front of a judge's stand. 
We meet Alice and Ray at the de-sacrilization ceremony of an old church and when we leave them, it is at the end of their wedding ceremony. This was an incongruous "personal­establishment" scene in which they resacrilize the building they had so eagerly waited to be secularized. What difference is there if it is consecrated by an institution, or a group of people who want to make it something speciai?It's still a circle. 
Arlo clwoses not to join the "church­circle", but he and his "chick" are still going on their own journey, trying to find their own "thing." Here there were a few 

In White America... 

Arlo's chick, Ray and Alice 
mug it in front of their ex-church. superfluous scenes, such as Arlo and girl beside the furnace, musing on fleeting quality and purpose of life. At least the scene was short, and if taken with a little salt, sweet. This point was well made when Arlo visited his father for the last time and said, "Now that I'm not doing what I_'m supposed to be doing, I'd better fmd out what I want, and it's liable to take me a while." Doesn't it for all of us? 
Arlo was Arlo, choosing his own journeys and circles, and that made the film, in its coolness, funniness sadness and relevance. It was his story, i1e played it, and told it well. I advise seeing it and comparing your story, not in any sense of a contest, but for what it may be worth to you. 
by Dan Shaw 
Friday November 14, at 9:00 p.m. in Was'1ington Hall, the West Side Players will .>resent In White America, a two-act play written by Martin Duberman. The !'lay itself is a documentary reviewing the black '1istorical experience from slavery days to the present. Billed as a socio-drarr.a, the performance will attempt to convey the human emotion whic'1 is an integral part of the black evolution/revolution history. 
The West Sirle Players themselves were forn~ed in May 1967 on the west side of Louisville, Kentucky. The key orgamzers were a pair of Vista Volunteers, Carroll J. Schempp and Richard D. Walbridge. Their efforts were aimea at offering the youth of the area a new mode of activity and a means of creating or stimulating an interest in the arts where opportunities were scarce. It was also hoped that the organization would provide creative minds with a chance to express themselves and to gain leadership experience. 
The trend of past plays has been to present existing social problems to the audience in a manner that will be both meaningful and realistic. Producing realism and spontaneity, however, has hardly posed a problem, as the pla~·ers have had first hand experience in the con•iitions and situations they portray. Previous performances have dealt with rat infestation, racial stereotyping, and t1 e d ifficu It ies confronting those who attempt to establish organizations aimed 
at affecting change. 
Dave Krashna of the Students Against Racism, who are co-sponsoring the event in conjunction with the Afro-American Society, and the Student Union Academic Commission, sees the dr::ma as a continuation of the effort of black people to show whites their life experience, to have whites "read" them. Although in themselves they cannot solve problems, Krashna sees them as a means of getting whites to get riel of their hang-ups about blacks. 
Those who had a chance to see The 
Black Experiencce in Song at SMC last 
month can tell you that there is much 
reading to do. However, judging by the 
performance of the Believers in The Black 
Experience, the feeling and emotion 
portrayed cannot be carried second hand. 
Student admission to this event is $1.00. 
In White America should provide at least 
a dollar's worth of reading. 


111B OBSERfiER. WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1969
PAGE 6 

Letters to the Editor 
Wolfe's taste 
This is in response to Chris W~lfe's column of November 5. 
Dear Chris 
Recently I read your column with great interest. It's true we've been on different sides in the past, politically speaking, but that did not in itself cause me to think particularly low of you. This latest literary effort changes things however. You speak of objective truth ... did you ever hear of taste? 
I realize that Notre Dame is a Catholic. Institution, where Christian conscience reigns supreme. Nevertheless, there are those few of us who do not agree with the precepts of the Roman Church. We see some thin s in a different li ht. We do 
CHARliE'S 
STEREO TAPE PRICES 
I wanna give 'em away, but my wife won't let me 
LIST CHARLIE'S 
PRICE PRICE 3.98 3.49 4.98 4.39 5.98 5.29 6.98 5.88 
7.98 .6.89 8.98 7.79 9.98 8.59 10.98 9.49 11.98 10.39 12.98 11.19 13.98 11.99 
a•n••;e
i4!£i·*·*~ 
OPEN OAILY: 9~ SAT. BJ.m. to ip.•. 
PH~ 287-721'8 
77~ Uncoln W•y East 

~~~~~~~S~T~U~D~E~N~T~U~N~I~O~N~A~N~N~O~U~N~C~£~S~~~~~~~Kti~,pointiqo~.~thewzy, that these terms are not synony­mous. This will reach you after the event, but you may be sure
THANKSGIVING Bus 
that the organizers of the March will do all they can to keep it
SERVICE TO O'HARE 
~ha~i~ay~~:t~~~a~v~rot~~~~:~ 
anyone down. But it is clear that Mr. Nixon is following the same
Leave Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
path that led Mr. Johnson back 
to ranching. I did fantasize a bit 
about what might happen in
MONDAY NOVEMBER 24 4:30 PM 
not appreciate your lovely little "oh so clever" illusions to "Adolf"; we do not like' your goddamn statistics either. The six million are statistics for you . .. they are my people, so watch your language. Maybe you might feel differently if your relatives were melted down to soap. Maybe you would become rather touchy about the subject. Maybe 
Richard Libowitz 
P.S. Count one callous Christian columnist per minute 
and looking through Observer, there i~ a ONE.  the BIG  
GE strike  
Editor:  

In regards to a letter concern­ing the end to General Electric's recruiting on campus due to the present strike, it seems to me that such noteworthies as Phil McKenna et. al. have tired of Dow Chemical, the CIA, and California grapes. In fighting their "never ending battle for truth, justice, and the American way," they fail to see what happens if GE is replaced by North Vietnam and the strikers by the U.S.A. This replacement, as I see it, gives a fairly good picture of the present Vietnam situation. Now their line of reasoning would tend to make North Vietnam the "bad guys." But, wait a minute, they say the 
U.S. is waging an unjust war against the people of North Vietnam. There couldn't be a contradiction, could there? 
Bill Muno 130 Fisher 
Fed-up-to-the-neck Editor: Speaking as a single, fed-up­
to-the-neck-with-this-nonsense student, I would like to demand the resignations of Student Body President McKenna and Student Body Vice-President Dedrick, ef­fective immediately. I have sat by while they have insulted Senators (student, as well as 
STUDENT UNION SOCIAL 
COMMISSION 
INVITES YOU TO 

PEACEFUL NIGHT OF FOLK MUSIC Nov. 14 8:30 Frida 
U.S.) and profligately spent use their office to satisfy their money that Student Govern­own little egos and hyper-sensi­ment simply does not have on tive conception of black-white­organizations that do nothing style right and wrong. for anyone (i.e. NSA) or are Disgustedly, openly racist (i.e. The Afro­Stephen Noe American Society of Notre 437 Stanford Dame), but this letter calling for P.S. Yes, I know that NSA got a disruption of General Electric only fifty dollars; that's still recruiting interviews is too fifty dollars too much. much. It is the most trumped­up, unreasonable, mis-begotten conglomeration of half-truths, innuendos and non-sequ.iturs that I have ever seen. And in 
three years here I've seen quite a few. 
If I were to perform a total dissection of this beast, I would be writing to the end of this month. Instead, I'll merely point out a few items. 
Item: What makes you so sure, Phil and Fred, that the 

Union's demands are just? Isn't it possible that GE's manage­ment simply can't keep the plants operating at a profit if the demands of the union are met? 
~./ ...
B oodless re rgwn

If a plant isn't profitable, then it Editor:must be closed down. (GE In reply to your editorial ofdoesn't have Fr. Hesburgh and November 3, in which I ;:mthe Administration to pick up reported to have spoken oftheir deficit!) If the plant closes "tearing Nixon down," and ofdown, then where will the em­"taking over Washington ifployees find a new job? 
Washington continues to oppressItem: What do you mean, Phil the Third World," let me sayand Fred when you say that that I believe I have beenthe work~rs have no say in their misquoted. I do not speak fromown future? Isn't that defined as notes, but it is always mybeing able to make a choice? 
practice to refer to the PresidentAren't t.,ey making a choice by as Mr. Nixon.
demanding higher pay, more I agree wholeheartedly withfringe b~nefits and less work and your editorial writer in that werefusing to work unless these should attack issues and notdemands are met? And shouldn't people. I agree with Christ, too,other people be allowed to make although I think it was a latertheir choice, if they think that commentator who made thethe present rates are good? 
distinction about hating the sinItem: By refusing to allow and loving the sinner.
graduating engineers, research Quite seriously, I was hearten.­
scientists, accountants, industrial ed by the sensitivity to therelations students, etc., the right values of nonviolence evident at to decide for themselves whether Notre Dame, and by youror not they wish to see a re­editorial, (and by Timcruiter from General Electric, MacCarry's obituary of Brotheraren't you setting yourself up as David Darst on the same page).
a little tin Fuhrer? 

But I feel I must remind youThe offices of SBP and SBVP that nonviolence is not merely a are supposed to be filled by weapon of "nice" people, notstudents who represent their fel­merely a "witness," an echo of alow-students and expedite the bloodless religion. 
services their fellow-students are I spoke of the Novemberpaying for. They are not sup­Mobilization in Washington as aposed to be filled by men who legal, peaceful and nonviolent Washington in the spring or summer if Mr. Nixon does not change his war policy drastically. I was thinking back to the Assembly of Unrepresented Peoples in Washington August 9, 
1965, when in a completely nonviolent action 1 5 ,000 of us· marched toward the Capitol with the announced intention of getting as close as possible to it i in order to hold a counter· "congress" of the unrepresented people of this country and of the Third World, in or near the place where decisions are made which vitally affect their lives, and where they have very little or no representation. If such an action could be. mounted next year, with far larger numbers and with the same or greater degree of determination, and most important, if that demon­stration could be carried out as a nonviolent demonstration, it would have a very powerful effect. The problem is, are we mature enough to escalate the seriousness of nonviolent protest 
in  such  a  manner?  I  do  not  
know.  
Those  of  us  who  espouse  

nonviolence, not merely as an expedient tactic, but as a philo­sophy and a way of life, must summon the imagination and the courage to increase our level of militancy and our willingness to pay the price. Otherwise we will surely leave the developi!lg struggle, which we have helped to generate, to those who do not share our commitment ot the integrity of the person, people who do put ideology or "causes before people." If that should happen, who would be to blame but those who Jailed to show that the better way really is better? 
Very best wished. 
Fraternally, 
Tom Cornell 
National Co-secretary 
The Catholic Peace 
Fellowship 
Murray's parody 
Editor: 

Jim Murray's obvious parody of Lew Alcindor's Sports /llus.. trated story is a disgrace to sports writing. It takes genuine courage for a ballplayer to break the mold of the college "rah­rah." If he must face the wrath of writers who abhor the truth, carry a personal vendetta against the local star or resort to subtle (?) racism, then his burden is doubled. Jim Murray should swallow his indignant pride and act professional. 
John Abowd 
234 Badin 

TUESDAY NOVEMBER 25 3+5 PM WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 26 1 PM  THE  ASSOCIATION  
Friday  November 21  8:30PM  
R etum from O'Hare  Athletic and Convocation Center  
SUNDAY NOVEMBER 30 8 PM  
Reserved seats at $5, $4, $2 on sale now at  
Tickets now on sale at the Travel Bureau m  Gilbert's, Bookstore, ACC Box Office  
the basement of Badin Hall  
Cost $5 one way  $10 round trip  PRESENTED BY THE STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION  
SORRl  NO REF  NO ONE WILL BE SEATED AFTER THE PERFORMANCE BEGINS.~-~----'  

Jeanne Sweeney
SMC student affairs 
New schools without walls 
I acclaim the decision of the members of the St1tdent Affairs channel to call for a temporary suspension of all meetings. But, my reasons arc very different from theirs. 
It seems to me that the fault of not being able to effectively operate as representatives of student opinion is due primarily to our· incompetent leaders. These girls are incompetent because they do not know how to truly represent their fellow students and because they limit their legislation to only those ideas which will embarass the administration. It is obvious to me that the Student "Representatives" have done nothing of constructive worth this year, and this lack of any real reason for Student Affairs is their own fault. 
The typical representatives of our Student Government at SMC do not know what the student thinks because she does not know how to obtain this knowledge. Our representatives are under the impression that if they pick a night and a particular half hour, they can call one of their halls meetings and, voila, the students will turn 
on their minds for this half hour and let the representative know exactly what she thinks of student government and what she wants student government to do. 
Why can't these representatives learn that as effective representatives of the students, they should learn what they think by listening to them. This listening should be perpetual. The representative should know her constituents well enough and have talked withtthcm enough, to interpret their opinions and know what they want. The representative's contact with her fellow student in class, social situations, in numerous other ways should be an effective guide to what the student is thinking. If our representatives were competent they would strive to know their fellow students seven days a week instead of a half hour on one particular night of the week. 
The next fault of our representatives is that they do not know how to propose constructive legislation. The SMC student assembly is a very good example. Led on by our Vice President, the assembly does not know how to do anything but think up legislation which will serve to embarass the administration. Now that all of the rules of our government have been completely changed, there are 
obviously no more rules to change. Therefore the legislature, at a1 loss because their minds cannot function if they arc not arguing about changing rules, leave the proposal of legislation up to our Vice President. The problem with this is that our Vice President does not truly represent the students. She does not realize that we might be pleased with the situation at SMC and do not want co-habitation or drugs on this campus. For example, what could be more constructive or earth shaking til an her newest piece of legislation to allow, drinking on campus for girls twenty-one years of age. This really is relevant to the needs of our student body and to the changing campus situation around the world. What about constructive thinking along the lines of scholarships to bring in more diversity at 
SMC, or working for off campus housing, or anything which will promote the welfare of SMC. I cannot blame the administration for delaying most of our legislation, because most of it is worthless anyway. 
I also, as a regular at the student assembly meetings, would also 
like to say that I doubt if you representatives would know how to. propose legislation even if you did have an idea. Also when" you do try and do something significant, it is never an original idea, but a copy of what our friends across the road have done. For example -when you were arguing what kind of statement you would make on the moratorium, the only ideas which came from our legislators were, why not write a statement like Columbia's, or why not one like that of the N D theology majors? The frustrating part of it is that your statement was so completely meaningless it was laughable. If you just tried to sit back and observe your meetings which usually get nothing accomplished except learn about a couple of "of the record" goodies, you would realize that half of the fault of our 
Mini-schools which abandon the conventional space and time boundaries of most institutions can help make education more relevant, a school planner from Philadelphia told the conference on "New Lives for Existing Educational Facilities" at the University of Notre Dame yes­terday. 
Dr. Glen I. Earthman, a mem­ber of the School Planning Department of the School Dis­trict of Philadelphia, spoke on "Schools Without Walls" to over I SO industrialists, architects and school administrators attending the conference in Notre Dame's Continuing Education Center. 
Earthman, describin_g the ex­perimental program offically called "Community Experience School" called the new project a "marriage between the school and the community." The mini­school has no formal building at all, he explained, and has aban­doned the traditional "school year," and "school day." s·tu­dents learn all year, full time -­by exploring resources available in the world about them --the community. 
The first mini-school met in February of 1969 when 140 students gathered in an abandon­ed office in downtown Philadel­phia. Their academic curriculum consisted of three parts:~ institu­tional offerings, basic skills offerings and electives, Earth­man said. 
Examples of institutional offerings include a biology class taught by one of the curators in 
the Museum of Natural Science and an art class in the Philadel­phia Art Museum, he explained. 
Basic skills of reading, writing and mathematics arc taught by certified teachers who provide botl• remedial and advanced material. Electives may be staff­taught or instituTional courses --of which there are over 100 --or may be individual study projects, service with com-
kmunity agencies, or experience gained with a wor 
coop-· crating business. 
The students represent a wide range of abilities· and ethnic groups, Earthman said, since they are selected by lottery from 
young lives, Earthman stressed ed that preliminary samples have 
that any community can serve as shown that most students are 
a laboratory for learning. The enthusiastic about the program, 
important factor, he said, is that calling it highly relevant. Many 
the community expands the said they would be dropouts 
life-space of the student by ·from any other institution. 
removing him from crowded 

classrooms and enhances his Earthman also noted that no 
capacity to learn from exper­teachers have asked for transfers 
ience by offering him interaction from the school, and no students 
with other people and with his have dropped out. In fact, two 
immediate environment. graduates asked to return for 
A !though Earthman noted "post-graduate" work. Phila­
that it is too early to evaluate delphia now has three operating 
the mini-school program, he add-community experience schools. 
l.avin: Patriotism is not dead 
presses support o' country 
Love for the natural beauty of However, Lavin does not be­the land and respect for the lieve today's soldier lacks such abstract values of liberty and courage or conviction. "No sold­law, freedom and duty combine .ier in history has been given a· to form the essential quality of more comprehensive and exact­patriotism. Col. John Lavin, pro-ing mission than the American ' fessor of military science at the· soldier of today," he said. "By University of Notre Dame yes­his resourcefulness, versatility telday told an audience of vet­and courage he continues to erans' group at the South Bend reflect the heritage of 194 years City Hall. of service -a heritage that grows 
brighter each year." 
Lavin, speaking in observance 
of Veterans' Day, stressed that 

patriotism is not merely frenzied Members chosen 
bursts of emotion, but a steady 
dedication to one's country in 

times of peace as well as in times PI TAU SIGMA, national en­
of war. gineering honor fraternity, has 
In honoring the fighting men chosen five seniors and seven who have defended America for juniors for induction into Notre almost 200 years, the head of Dame's Sigma Beta chapter. The Notre Dame's Army ROTC pro­fraternity, which recognizes su­gram stressed that "our duty -perior scholarship and exem­both to them and to our country plary character among Mechanic­
-is to honor that performance al Engineers, has selected seniors in kind: by securing the future Dennis F. Ducate, Edward J. of our prosperity." Fitzpatrick, John Nelson, John 
F. Parolin, and Robert A. Posival and juniors Steven W. Couch,He urged young people to Louis R. Markovich, Thomas A.
fulfill that duty out of patriot-Martin, James A. Matas, John L.
. ism and in respect tor tradition. 
McKelvey, William R. Moran,of military service that is a fun­
d and Joseph A. Utz.
amenta1 responsibility of citi­zenship. "If we lack the courage to stand firm for our beliefs or ..-------------~ 
if we lack beliefs we are deter­mined to uphold, then we do not deserve the heritage which is ours, and are unworthy of the sacrifices our veterans have made for us," he stressed. 
WANTED 
Student Union Secretary 
Monday-Friday 9 AM -12 noon 







student government lies mainly in your inept lapses. 
I therefore cannot see what bad effects your suspension will have on our school, because as things exist now you are doing nothing wqrth the students' "support, or interest." If I am wrong irr my views, it is because I am misinformed and if this is so, this is again your fault, because it is your job to inform me as to what you arc doing. 
Law-8usine$s· Program scheduled 
A new Notre Dame combina­mission by both Notre Dame while the second year and the tion Law-Business Program Schools. The first and fourth fifth semester are devoted to scheduled to begin next Septem­years and the sixth semester are graduate business study. ber has been jointly announced devoted to the study of law. by Deans William B. Lawless of the School of Law and Thomas 
Mundelein College 
Presents

T. Murphy of the College of 
Business Administration. The combination program, 
Pigskin Follies II 

four years in length and post­
Fri.-Sat.-Sun. -Nov. 14-15-16
baccalaurate, leads to two 
~!:;::::::::::::::::::::::::!:::!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

d egrecs: master of business 
SAT. (NOV .15)
administration, awarded at the end of the third year, and the 
THE BIG GAM£ 

doctor of jurisprudence, award­
MUNDELEIN vs. NORTHWESTERN
ed at the end of the fourth year. Eligibility to enter the combi­
sAT. :r~tFfit:=s~3~:::lt~=~=:=======::::::::::::::::=============================== 
nation is dependent upon ad-
THE BIG MIXER
Complete Stereo component sys­
tems. Buy yours at ­

FEATURING ''THE ARAGONS" 
Lafayette R<;dhJ Electronic),.731 South Michigan 
M undefeln College 

South Bend. lncfi:ma 
6363 N. Sheridan Rd. Chica o for information 

call 7757 
PAGE 8 

China Night called political activity 
Dear Fellow Taiwaness (Formosan) students: 
As you may already have seen on the poster on campus, there will be a so-called "China Night" on Nov. 14-16, 1969. 
At a glance it looks like a Chinese student affair, but if you would like to spend a little bit of time to think about it and compare it with the experience which you have had under the iron rule of the one party totalitarian Chain Kai-shek government in Taiwan, you will see that it is a political activity promoted by the pawns of the dictator under the beautiful 
' name of Chinese culture, ethical ties, and even anti-communism. 
Past patriotic support 

Why does "China Night" have to match its schedule with the activities at St. Mary's College? The History Department of St. Mary's has scheduled a talk "Chinese revolution of I 9 I I" given by a Chinese at "China Night." Will the department invite a Taiwanese scholar from the Ivy League to talk? The lecture given at ~'China Night" is a subject good to refresh the minds of the overseas Chinese of their past patriotic support of the revolution led by Dr. Sun Yet-shen and ask a new generation of overseas Chinese and even the American public to support Chiang Kai-shek's dream to be an emperor of China in the name of the successor of Dr. Sun. 
"Chiang dynasty" 

It is not a secret in Taiwan who the "Crown Prince" of the "Chiang dynasty" is. Chiang Ching-Ko, the elder son of Chiang Kai-shek is a four star general and defense minister in control of all intelli­gence agencies in Taiwan. Recently he was promoted by his father to vice-premier waiting in the event of his 
father's death to take over the govern­ment. 
"Chiang Dynasty" in Taiwan is bene­ficial for his royal followers and it is also · very cooperative and convenient for those who are not going to question Chiang's dictatorship such as missionaries, foreign ministers, and tourists from abroad. 
The East Asian Research Institute is not affiliated with any college in the U.S. What type of research are they dotng? You can guess from the fact that at the same address there is a small publishing company selling the director's books and the same line of books written by others such as friends of the late president Diem of South Vietnam. It is possible that the East Asian Research Institute has no bona fide researchers at all. It might be the kind of private foundation and institution which the U.S. Congress is trying to stop from abusing the taxpayers money. 
Political activity 
While "China Night" here at St. Mary's and Notre Dame is financially supported and blessed by both the Chinese Embassy in Washington, D.C. and the Chinese Consulate General in Chicago, every Taiwanese student at Kansas State Uni­versity received a letter from the Chinese Consulate General prohibiting them from performing a program in the international week as Taiwanese. The counsular dares to risk the violation of freedom of ex­pression guaranteed by the first ammend­ment to the U.S. Constitution. This gives you clear evidence why "China Night" is a political activity. 
Furthermore, an advisor to the "China Night" program is a "life-time" general assembly woman of the Chiang Kai-shek regime elected in mainland China in I 946. She does not have constituents and has lived here in South Bend for more than a decade. She was given free trips to Taiwan every "Presidential election" in Taiwan at the expense of the Taiwanese tax money to cast a vote in an election without a choice since Chiang Kai-shek is the only one on the ballot. This is the so-called "free election" and "demo­cracy" in Taiwan today. 

Propaganda films 
It is not necessary to say that you will be lucky if you are not forced to see some kind of "documentary Film" before a movie or cultural show at "China Night." The film is usually offered by the agency of the "Chiang Dynasty" free of charge. It has nothing to do with China. It is a propaganda film to mislead the American public into thinking that Tai­wan is "free," "democratic," and "eco­nomically sound" contrary to what is happening in Taiwan. 
Taiwanese rights 
Fellow Taiwanese, some Chinese beyond the Taiwan Strait are chanting that they are determined to liberate us from tyrany. Another group of Chinese on our island are also shouting that they are our legitimate masters. Can't we handle our own affairs? Seeking self-determination toward independence from two such claims is no longer a matter of simple politics. This is a severe struggle for our basic rights as human beings. You can't sit and wait to see some of our' fellows taking the whole l6ad. Our silence might be construed as acceptance of the demand of the two sects. Then how can we as individuals aid this struggle? Clearly identify ourselves as Taiwanese and con­vey the true facts and aspirations to our American classmates and friends. It is extremely necessary that we are careful not to associate with any Chinese organi­zation because our presence might be taken by the pawns of the Chiang regime for propaganda to their advantage. 
With a firm stand of our convictions and a proud honor to be Taiwanese, friendship might be maintained with some Chinese. But there is no excuse for retreat from our convictions when you are challanged in public by the prejudiced Chinese. You can tell your friends that Taiwan is an assigneJ territory by inter­national law. According to the San Fran­cisco Peace Treaty and the Sino-Japanses Treaty of Aug. 5, 1952, Japan renounced all rights and title as well as claim to Taiwan. However, the final title to Tai­wan still remains unsettled officially. But nobody can deny that Taiwan is de facto an independent country which belongs to all Taiwanese. Taiwan is the genuine obstruction to the establishment of diplo­matic relations between Washington and Peking. 
Cost of freedom 

It is true that the cost of freedom is always high. You may be worried about the safety and property of your family back in Taiwan and even your own. However, our small effort which we are already to start will reward the necessary price you have paid. As Richard Nixm. said in his policy statement on Nov 3 I 969, "Everything is negotiable but .th~ right to self-determination by the people of South Vietnam." It is the U.S. policy applied to all the people in the world especially in Taiwan and Southeast Asia. It is untrue to ourself not to fight for the self-determination in Taiwan. Let us do it today! Boycott "China Night" activities and the "Chinese Student Associations." 
Sincerely yours, 
T.C. & M.W. 
P.S. Please withhold my real name but print those four initials for the safety of my family in Taiwan. Thank you. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIITIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllla& 
Widespread activities planned for China Day 
The one-hundred member the New Year will be the finale of Chinese ancestry from many eluding some ancient and be open to the public and, with 
Chinese Students Association of of the show, the ribbon and different lands. authentic originals .. the exception of the Chines~ 
Saint Mary's College and the Drinking Dances should prove In conjunction with the vari-Other pieces of art include movie, they will be free of 
University of Notre Dame has unusual enough to be of interest ous other activities planned for opera masks, lanterns, statues charge. 
planned widespread academic, to the audience. the weekend will be an art exhi-and bamboo plates. Publications 
cultural, and musical activities In the former, Alice Kung of bition featuring Chinese painting on exhibit will feature a collect-Distinguished guests will be 
for November 14, 15, and 16, Purdue will keep long colorful and handicrafts. These items will ion of Chinese Christmas cards, a Mayors Allen and Prickett, top­
I 969, called China Day. The silk ribbons twirling while per­be on view in the Saint Mary's calendar, and postage stamps. ranking faculty and administra­
entire event, an enlarged version forming a traditional Chinese StuJent center Coffee House on Perhaps the most unusual divi-tive staff members of both com­
of a similar function, China dance. She will also perform the Saturday, November 15, 9:00 sion of the Art Exhibit will be a munities, the Boards .of Trustees 
Night, started on a single evening Drinking Dance in which two a.m. to 7:00 p.m. an~ Sunday classification of 27 embroidered of each institution, and the rep­
in February, I967, is dedicated small Chinese wine cups are held November 16, 9:00a.m. to 5:00 articles such as pillows, table-resentatives of the Chinese Em­
to the observance of Saint between the first three fingers of p.m. cloths, and clothing of various bassy in Washington, D.C. and 
Mary's I25th Anniversary and to each hand and made to produce Paintings will be the most sorts. the Consulate-General in 
promote cultural exchange. a castenet-like effect as she skips numerous with 80 selections in-All events of China Day will Chicago. 
The initial event in the three­lightly across the stage. 
day celebration, will be a free Music will be provided mostly 
S~nafe approves Forum proposal
lecture on Chinese history which by graduate students from Notre (contznued from page 1) studying general, amorphous students to sit on the Forum. Edwill be presented as a part of the Dame. Among the selections will purpose ot determmmg its problems of the University McCartin, Chairman of theSaint Mary's College History De­be harmonica solos by Chen 
implementation for 1970-71. vis-a-vis society. Committee, said that anypartment's "Freedom and Au­Cheng-jean of the Physics De­The financial considerations Proponents of the Forum undergraduate may apply inthority Series". This meeting, to partment and a series of folk of the Forum revolved around countered that the primary good writing to the Ser~retary of t':e•be held at 4:30p.m. on Friday, songs sung by a group of seven­its general acceptance, the of the proposal was the Senate. Nominations will beNovember 14, in Carroll Hall of teen. These tunes will have one-year limit for approval, and o p port unity for direct accepted until Tuesday, Nov.
Madeleva Memorial Building on themes stressing love and the the procedure for selecting communication between the 18th at 5:00 P.M., and thethe SMC campus, will feature beauty of nature. 
members to sit on the Forum. students and the admi'1istrative, nominees will then be contactedDr. Stephen C. Y. Pan, director Faculty representation will be Breen-Phillips Senator Tim organs of the University. In by the Screening Committee.
of the East Asian Research Insti­provided by Professor Victor Feeley proposed an amendment addition, some Senators hinted In minor business, McKennatute. Dr. Pan's topic will be Nee of the Engineering Depart­that would delete the year trial that the Forum would be the gave his Executive Report on the"The Chinese Revolution of ment who will play the violin basis for approval of the Forum. first step towards a University recent appointments to the191 I." Also on Friday, a show­accompanied on the piano and 
Senators speaking against Senate. Judicial Board and on theing of the Chinese classical cello by Ginger and Eugene Feeley's amendment observed After lengthy debate on the discussion conducted at
movie, Firebulls, and a docu­Yang, children of Professor that the initiative taken by a motives and benefits for the yesterday's meeting of the Board
mentary film on China have Yang. 
student in applying for a Forum, the Senate accepted the of Trustees.
been scheduled for 7:30p.m. in The literary aspect will not be position on the Forum proved a Student Affairs Committee McKenna opened the floor tothe Notre Dame Engineering forgetten as Dr. John Kiang of positive attitude towards its recommendation for the debate on the procedure forAuditorium. There will be an South Bend will demonstrate function. Feeley's amendment University Forum by a vote of conducting the imminentadmission charge of $1.00 for two kinds of Chinese poetry 
-vas then defeated by a vote of 27-13. Freshman Class elections. The
this performance. which, when recited, produce a 
24-14. SBP Phil McKenna then Senate voted to autlwrizeOn Saturday, November 15, unique sing-song effect. The Opponents to the main appointed a Screening immediate Freshman electionsfrom 7:00-8:30 p.m. in words of the poems will be motion of the adoption of the Committee for the purpose of and appointed a committee toO'Laughlin Auditorium on the written in huge brushstrokes on resolution ordered their interviewing and selecting organize election procedure. 
SMC Campus, the Chinese Stu­paper which will be draped over 
disapproval on the point that the
dents Association has scheduled an easel on the stage. 
students will receive no tangible
a cultural performance featuring Two other parts of the pro­
benefits from the Forum. Since
Chinese folk dances, songs, gram are a fashion show of 
Hesburgh affirmed that there
music, and poetry. contemporary and traditional 
would be no legislative power in
While the traditional Lion Chinese dresses modeled by 
would gair: nothing from 




