

VOL. IV, No. 27 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 196J 
Fr. Hesburgh discourages rebates 
By !\lark Walbran In response to his proposal for made him a "little sad" but states that Student Government the election of a new senatot a rebate for those students added: owes $23,000 to the university from Morrissey will be held whose occupancy in the new "Anyone who wants 'eye for based on a loan from last year. soon.
Phil McKenna, Student Body an eye and tooth'
tooth for a

dormitories was delayed because A sheet presenting budget The Senate then met inPresident, reported on his rebate of incompletion, McKenna justice can come and get his requests for this year was various committee meetings andproposal to the Vice President portion." distributed at the meeting. the committee chairmenreceived a letter from Fatherfor Business Affairs, Father Fr. Hesburgh said that in light adjourned the meetinp.
Hesburgh. McKenna saul that the total
Jerome Wilson last night at the 
of the university's deficit the

In the letter Fr. Hesburgh requested, $87,270, will be
third meeting of the Student 
rebate would strain the

commented that the proposal considerably shaved by the
Senate. 
university's budget. He 
Finance Committee who will 
mentioned the tradition of 
present their report at the next 
generosity among Notre Dame 
meeting.
students and alluded to the fire 
Ed Hogan was approved by
of 1879 which burned down the 
the body as Secretary for the 
Main Building. The students 
Senate. 
helped rebuild the building and 
Mike Shaughnessy,
molded bricks from mud from 
Coordinator for the National 
St. Joseph's Lake. 
Student Association (NSA),
Hesburgh wrote that he didn't 
distributed a four page report on 
object to the justice of the 
the NSA and its congress held in 
rebate proposal but that he was 
El Paso, Texas last August.
confident in the generosity of 
Shaughnessy's report urges that the students. 
Notre Dame continue its 
McKenna interpreted Fr. 

membership in the NSA. Hesburgh's letter to mean that It was reported during the the rebate would be granted meeting that Pat Kerrigan,those students individually 
Senator from Morrissey Hall was 
l>ttll Bosco
requesting it. McKenna said he 
recently married. McKenna said 
Shaughnessy makes a point
would send out this week copies of Fr. Hesburgh's letter with 

a 3¥ '' 
word of explanation to those e known essayist
students affected by the delay. Also on the Senate Agenda: Student Government 
Phil Bosco 

promotes liberal arts 
Treasurer John Coughlin gaveSBP Phil McKenna addressing the Senate last night the financial report. His report By John Ruane The emphasis on production has affected our universities because 
"If the aims of liberal we have "turned our universities


Connelly assau It case discussed 
education are not revived, machines that are
into turningsociety will perish," said Dr. 

out technicians," said Kirk. 

By Paul Gallagher the blacks returned to Matt Connelly was contacted Russel Kirk, a well known Dr. Kirk listed four aims of
Connelly's room, but could not and related his side of the story. political essayist, before a large 
liberal education: A meeting between members enter. South Bend Police were Attempts were made to ascertain audience last night in the library 

1) Education of the free man.

of Alumni Hall, Fr. James called, and the black sudents who the blacks were that were auditorium adding that liberal 2) Education of man in allRiehle, and Mr. Arthur Pears, fled. involved in the incident. The arts is becoming a "dumping fields as opposed to theDirector of Notre Dame Black students argue that Notre Dame Security office ground." 
specialist.

Security, had been set for one tension in the hall has grown which had their names refused Kirk commented that liberal 3)Education of governors tt.at
o'clock today in hopes of because of Monday morning's to release them. education has declined because teach man to establish a
quelling tension arising from a report of the Connelly incident While the story was being it is being used as an easy way to "harmony of character and spirit 
Saturday morning fight in the in the Observer. "The newspaper written, two black students who get a college degree and as a in his self and a sense of order room of junior Matt Connelly. coverage presented a basically refused to identify themselves, result, students who enroll in and justice in his society. 
The meeting has been called, one-sided view", commented came to the Observer office and liberal arts do so because it does 4) Education of ethics that says Connelly, "to try to work Arthur McFarland, Afro asked whether a story on the not require as much work as the teach there is more to life thanthis out among the Notre Dame American Society President. "I incident was being written. 
technical courses. In this way "getting and spending." 
community." Earlier the junior disagree with the entire article. Informed of Connelly's side of liberal education becomes a Liberal education depends onathlete had filed assault and It led white students to a the story, they stated that they "dumping ground" for lazy 
the methods of "right
battery charges against three of number of assumptions about took exception to some of his students. 
reasoning" and "Moral
the students allegedly involved the situation that are basically claims. 
Dr. Kirk also said that people imagination" to carry out itsin the incident. However, he incorrect." They refused at the time to are content to just "get along" purpose according to Kirk. Heyesterday asked St. Joseph "The crucial thing is that the elaborate on their claims until with their fellow man and also emphasized that we mustCounty Prosecutor William Observer should have gotten the they had talked with other cannot see how the great realize we have a "great heritage V oore to hold off issuing whole story", added AAS members of the bIa ck philosophers of the past can 

and consequently great

warrants until "we see what member DeWitt Clinton. community. They said they teach us to develop order in we
responsibilities" and thathappens at the meeting." However, Clinton along with would return to the office and ourselves and our society. The must see ourselves as persons.

Tension has been mounting at other black students interviewed would make a statement. Pressed "triumph of technology" has Kirk related that one of the best Alumni since 12 black students declined to offer the black for their names and where they also contributed to the decline ways to learn the methods ofentered Connelly's first floor student's point of viewt could be contacted, they by placing emphasis on material "right reasoning" and "moral room at 3 o'clock Sunday "It wouldn't do any good", maintained that they wanted to production, according to Kirk. 
(continued on page 7)

morning to question him about Clinton explained. People's remain anonymous and would remarks made earlier in the day. minds have already been return with their information. In the fight that ensued, formed". They did not return. Connelly suffered a laceration The story in question was "We printed the story as it requiring I 0 stitches. written Sunday night, after the stood because we felt that they 
Tempers flared again 2 Observer received a phone call had ample opportunity of giving o'clock Monday morning when informing them of the incident. us their version of what went on", said Guy DeSapio, editor of 
the Observer . "They refused to identify themselves and did not come 
SMC trustees hear students 

on committees suggestions 

back on their own to make a statement", he continued. "We by Prudence Wear representative to the had no alternative but to print Educational Policy Committee, the story. We noted, of course,
Observer Associate Editor said they considered three areas in the story, that it was merely
The standing committees of of feasible change: the Connelly's version and relatedthe SMC Board of Trustees in possibility of building a new the fact that we could notthe first of their bi-annual library, the expansion of the obtain their names from meetings last Thursday and Rome study program, and security, and so could not getFriday made recommendations experimentation with the their comments." 

to that Board in the areas of present pass-fail system. As of Tuesday night tension education, development, and Sr. Rita Claire, St. Mary's had eased somewhat at Alumni 

student policy. Phil Bosco
librarian, presented a proposal and there were no reports of Rosemary Anderson, student 
(continued on page 8) additional friction. Dr. Kirk speaking on revival of liberal education 





THE OBSBRfi!R.
PAGE 2 




ND to host school modernization confererence 
Allen, or any other teachingRogers, speaking in New York assistant in a similar position,a day after Agnew's comments wish to enter it. 
in New Orleans, said that the Allen's status as a student wasadministration "listened with not affected.
respect to war critics."

GROW WITH THE SPACE AGE AT 
SMC assembly meets 
An agenda had not been


By Janine Fast 
GODDARD 
distributed prior to the meeting and so the issue could not be 
The St. Mary's Student discussed.


SPACE 
Assembly dealt with three items The Assembly also considered in their meeting last night. The 

establishing a policy of 2 a.m. first being the guest problem 
dorm closing hours for the night which became more apparent before a day without regularly during the USC football 

FLIGHT 
scheduled classes. This was 

weekend. passed unanimously. The present guest policy is 

CENTER 
Beth Driscoll also suggestedthat each dorm can house up to 
the Assembly set up a two-thirds the number of dorm committee to investigate the occupants as guests. 
GREENBELT, MD. 
working conditions of the maids For example, Le Mans with of St. Mary's because there is an five hundred residents can have apparent problem of a staff
ENGINEERS-SCIENTISTS-MATH EM ATI ClANS three hundred guests on any 
shortage due to low wages. The given weekend providing each Assembly agreed to get an guest is registered twenty-four investigation underway. 
hours in advance. It was brought 
out these stipulations have been 

John Bruha wins
LINK YOUR COUNTRY'S FUTURE 
violated this year resulting in 
overcrowding. 

in Walsh Senate
WITH YOUR OWN 

The problem of illegal guests could be combated by spot or 

election rematch
extensive bed checks both nights of the weekend as suggested by Junior John Bruha Thursday Beth Driscoll, Student Body night won the rematch of Walsh Vice-President. Another 
Hall Student Senate election suggestion especially for Le that was held after the Student Mans Hall would be to station a 
Senate invalidated the first one. Bruha, in winning, finishedgirl at the entrance to the fourteen votes in front of fresh­dormitory proper who would man Fred Lochbil!ler and thirtycheck guest I.D.'s as they come votes ahead of junior Jeff King.
in. It was finally decided to send In the previous election Bruhathe guest problems of each hall had finished third in a three ­to the hall councils for action. 
man field as King and Lochbih­Secondly, a proposition to ler tied for first. 
eliminate the class requirement The first election was invali­for Student Body President and dated after the Student Govern­Vice-president came to the floor ment learned that through theirbut was tabled on a technicality. 

own error in tabulation Walsh 1---:-------....,---------, had been assigned two Senators when its population merited only one. The official tabulation gave Bruha sixty-two votes, Lochbih­ler fourty-eight, and King
AGODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER REPRESENTATIVE WILL VISIT 
thirty-two.
One Dav Service 
NO EXTRA CHARGE

YOUR CAMPUS TO DISCUSS YOUR CAREER OPPORTUNITIES WITH 
nne Observet Is published daifi 
Dry Cleaning 
during the college semester exeer.· vacations l,ly the students of tttc
Shirt Laundry

THIS GROWING NASA CENTER ON: NOVEMBER 6, 1969 
University of Notre Dame and St.
With each $1.50 of dry Mary's College. Subscriptions maycleaning you receive a coupon 

be purchased for $8 fr!)lll. The worth 25 cents at McDonald's! 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame -410 N. Michigan Street 
Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, NotrP pame Ind. 465_56.
Next to MeDon I 's 
A national conference on "New Lives for Existing Educa­tional Facilities" will be held in the University of Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education November 6-7. 
The objective of the con­ference is to exchange views on effective utilization of existing educational facilities and on pos­sibilities for modification of facilities to accommodate new educational programs. 
"Too many modernization programs are really no more than simple maintenance or re­habilitation -new lighting, new paint colors, acoustical tile ­and when we're finished, the classrooms are still the same size, and they still dictate or limit the 


OBSERVER Staff Meeting 
For all personnel 
Friday at 4:30. This includes layout, proofreading, news, sports, night editors, copy staff and everyone else excluding members of the business staff 

If you cannot attend , contact Guy DeSapio before Friday 
educational program possibili­ties," commented Ben E. Graves, research director of Educational Facilities Laboratories in Chi­cago. "We have spent our money locking the school right back in its egg crate." 
Graves' organization is one of three groups involved in spon­soring the Notre Dame con­ference. The other two are the University of Notre Dame's de­partment of education and the School Facilities Council. 
Obsolescence is one of the problems the conference will analyze. "When educational change kept a steady but slow pace," said Dr. Richard H. Metz­cus, Notre Dame assistant pro­fessor of education, "school plant obsolescence was manage­able. But now obsolescence not only affects schools only a decade or two old, but is often partially introduced even as buildings are completed." As examples he cited the absence even in recent buildings of ade­quate audio-visual facilities and flexible-size classrooms. 
Conference speakers, in addi­tion to Graves and Metzcus, in­clude Dr. Eugene Campanale of Notre Dame's department of 


Indiana TA suspended for misconduct 
BLOOMINGTON,  Ind.  dismissal  was  effective  last  Carter said civil action is being  
(UPI)-An  Indiana  University  Friday  for  professional  considered against a non-student  
teaching  assistant,  Joel  Allen,  misconduct.  Allen  was a  leader  and  that  three  students  face  

was suspended without pay in of the moratorium observance, last week's Vietnam War Carter said, and participated in Moratorium observance, it was efforts to raise bond for James announced yesterday. Rutherford, 27, who was 
Chancellor Dr. Byrum Carter charged in the harassment of Dr. told a faculty council Allen's Clark Kerr during a lecture. 

Rogers, Agnew vent feelings 
did the attack by Vice President WASHINGTON (UPI)-The Spiro T. Agnew. But the WhiteState Department yesterday 
strongly indicated that Secretary 

House said this was not of State William P. Rogers' 
necessarily so. Both men, said remark on , the Vietnam war 
Press Secretary Ronald Ziegler, protests more nearly represented 
were speaking their own President Nixon's thinking than 
personal feelings on the protests. 
education; James Doherty, edi­tor of School Management; James Downs, board chairman of Real Estate Research Corp., Chicago; Dr. Paul Miller, Cincin­nati superintendent of schools; Dr. Carl Condoli, professor of education at Ohio State Univer­sity; Patrick Horsbrugh, visiting professor of architecture at Notre Dame; Dr. Harold Gores, president of the Educational Facilities Laboratories; Allan Levy, Philadelphia architect; Dr. Ed Pino, superintendent of Cher­ry Creek schools, Colo.; the Rev. Darneau Stewart, president of the Great Cities Research Coun­cil; Dr. Herbert Wheeler, profes­sor of architecture, Penn State University, and Dr. Ben Handler, professor of architecture and planning, University of Michi­gan. 
Participation is open to public and private school superinten­dents, their administrative staffs, boards of education, architects, industrialists, and university edu­cators. 
possible disciplinary action under the university code of conduct. Rutherford is specifically charged with assualt and battery for allegedly throwing a pie at Kerr. 
Carter said he is disturbed there is no appeal procedure for such cases. It urged the council to change the situation. The council recommended that either the faculty board of review or the faculty teaching assistance implementation committee entertain an appeal if 


1VW·E~D~N~EiS~D~A~Y~,O~C~T~O~B~E~R~2~2~,i19i6i9iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~---:::~~~~e~~~~~~~-~~~-----:----~--------------~~­
Complete Stereo component sys-
Tom Murphy Beat the Beatles 
Rather than plunging headlong into another great political problem of today, this week we'll take a new look at an "old" group --the Beatles. 
WANTEp: DEAD OR ALIVE 
PAbL McCARTNEY 
During the past few weeks (especially since the release of Abbey Road) there has been a race to discover clues, hidden in past alb,u~s, that point to Paul McCartney's death. Accroding to some, Paul died in an auto accident in November of 1966 ("He blew his mind out in a car" on "Wednesday morning at five o'clock ... "). Since that time, a substitute Paul has been used. The clues begin in Sgt. Pepper but don't reach full proportion until Magical Mystery Tour. In this later album, phrases such as "I buried Paul," a chant "Paul is dead," and a newscast, that never became a reality, announciqg McCartney's death, can plainly be heard when you know how and where to find them. "Walrus," supposedly, is a Greek word meaning "corpse" and, when John sings "Glass Onion" in The Beatles, the clues appear to be a give-away: 
I told you about the walrus and me --man 
You know that we're as close as can be-man 
Well here's another clue for you all 
The walrus was Paul. 
Right now, there are two schools of thought: I) Paul is dead, 
somehow the Beatles covered it up (possibly afraid of a decline in 
popularity) and they began to give out hints of his death because 
they could not restrain their grief; and, 2) as always, the Beatles are 
having some fun and created as wild a joke on the world as they 
could imagine. 
The first theory has many practical problems in it -most obvious, how did the death remain a secret? If true, however, (and many contend the Beatles's records evidence this fact), it could be an accurate explanation of both the change in the Beatles's music 
since 1966, and John Lennon (who was closest to Paul). Certainly John was extremely depressed immediately after Paul's death. "Day in the Life" exactly expresses John's feelings -he contemplates Paul's death, goes into a dream, suddenly P>aul is alive again (singing, "Woke up, fell out of bed ... "), but John fades out of the dream and becomes depressed once more. However, because he has done such a marvelous job of keeping Paul alive through a Paul "look-alike" and some recordings, John is n0w rejoicing. On the cover of Abbey Road, he pictures himself as God-he resurrected a dead man, or, if you prefer, he re-incarnated Paul through records. 
Despite all this, it is still quite possible the Beatles are all alive and laughing at us as we buy up old albums and play them backwards so 
WASHINGTON (UPI)­
Antiwar groups yesterday 
disclosed plans for a massive, 
three day mid November protest 
against the Vietnam War and 
vowed the only thing that could 
stop it would be total and 
immediate withdrawal of U.S. 
troops. 
In back to back news 
conferences to emphasize their 
unity, the Vietnam Moratorium 
Committee, which sponsored the 
Oct. l 5 nationwide action, and 
the New Mobilization 
Committee to End the War in 
Vietnam supported each other's 
demonstrations. 
The Moratorium Committee has set Nov. 13 and 14 for its two day demonstrations on the local level, with emphasis on getting congressmen return to their home districts to participate on those two days. The New Mobes plan a "march against death" in Washington beginning Nov. 13 and lasting around the clock until Nov. I 5 when they plan a big rally south of the White House. 
Rumor ·had it that the two groups would not support each other, but leaders of the grqups said those reports came only 
from Boston and New Haven, Conn., where there was local friction. 
Sam Brown, coordinator of the Vietnam Moratorium Committee, said, "the immediate withdrawal of troops from Vietnam is the only thing President Nixon can announce Nov. 3 in his nationwide televised address that would cancel the demonstrations." 
WASI-IlNGTON (UPI)­Senate Democratic leader Mike Mansfield said yesterday he thought a cease fire had already 
been  essentially  achieved  in  
Vietnam.  
Mansfield  issued  his  

uncharacteristically strong appraisal as a wave of optimism engulfed senior members of the Senate in advance of President Nixon's Nov. 3 address to the nation. 
The Senate Foreign Relations Committee quietly postponed a planned series of public hearings that had been expected to produce sharp criticism of the President's Vietnam policies. 
The committee's ranking Republican, Sen. George D. Aiken, R. Vt., predicted that all 
U.S. ground troops would be out of Vietnam in one year, implying he had been told so by the White House. 
In his regular morning meeting with reporters, Mansfield went out of his way to praise Nixon's policy of ''protective reaction," which recently replaced the "maximum pressure" tactics employed by 
U.S. troops. 
He said it represented a basic change in policy and when asked 




Pian next Moratorium 
The two groups said they held a four hour meeting into the morning hours Tuesday to make sure they were "marching in the same direction." 
Gala Italian 


night set 
Italian Night has been schedul.ed for Wednesday, Octo­ber 29 in the dining halls. A lengthy menu -highlighted by pizza, spaghetti and meatballs, ravioli, and Italian sausage -has been drawn up for the affair. 
Edmund Price, Director of University Food Services, an­nounced the dinner last week and said that students will be allowed all they care to eat. 
"We're look­ing forward to a pleasant eve­ning; and we hope the students will appreciate all the work and effort the employees have con­
tributed  to  make  this  festive  
occasion  possible,"  Mr.  Price  
said.  
MENU  

tomato juice cocktail individual pizza spaghetti and meatballs ravioli Italian sausage assorted relish tray fruit salad tossed green salad garlic oil & vinegar dressing, Italian cream dressing ponderosa rolls lime or orange sherbet garlic bread assorted beverages cookies 
terns. Buy yours at-· 
Lafayette Radio 
Electronic~ 
731 South Michigan South Bend, Indiana 

Charlie's 





STEREO TAPES 

8 TRACK 
List$6.98 
Charlie's Price 

$5.88 ~ 
H.A.R.L:EE's 
I,.A~ ~U~I'.fl ... ,il'. ,'o 
OPEN DAILY 9 to 6-~ 
SAT. I LIIL It 5p.lll. 


PH. 287-7218 

774 Llncoli:t Way East 

we ~n heualltheclu9.ltisnotimprobab~ fuatwehawjoined~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ the Magical Mystery Tour which, as Paul sings to us, is "dying to take you away." Regardless of which theory you accept, the most fascinating (and frightening) thought is that the Beatles are able to control life and death (if only on their records) and are able to completely bewitch their audience. Whether Paul is dead or alive, the Beatles will emerge 
from this more popular than ever (Paul included). That could be what they are attempting to tell us -"Our popularity will grow after we're dead even as Christ's did." It's something to think about. 
WELCOME TO THE MAGICAL MYSTERY TOUR. 
(Note: many national papers have published articles telling how and where to find the clues the Beatles have created in their albums --the Michigan Daily and the Detroit Free Press are two that I know about ifyou want to write to them to receive reprints) 



Mansfield and Aiken forecast cease fire 
Hsuch stuff as dreams are made on" THERE IS NO FINER TOKEN OF YOUR AFFECTION THAN A NOTRE DAME MINIATURE for years students and graduates of the University have given these rings to those they cherish most. You will find it is well received and lasts a lifetime. Stop in at the second floor office and make your selection from the wide variety of stones available. But, in case you're planning to give it to her for a special occasion, be sure to allow four to six weeks for delivery. NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE On -the ­Campus  

if it was a de facto cease fire, said, "I think that is what protective reaction means." When asked if he felt there was now a cease fire, Mansfield nodded his head "yes". 
Aiken said in a statement 

"unless the unexpected happens, 
I expect that practically all of 
our ground troops will be 
withdrawn by a year from now." 
Aiken made a similar 
prediction several weeks ago in 

an interview with United Press 
International. This time, 
however, the Senate's senior 
Republican issued a carefully 
prepared press release 
emphasizing he had "been kept 
well informed on the progress of 

the President's withdrawal 
policy." 
The Foreign Relations Committee hearings had been set to begin Oct. 27. Chairman J. William Fulbright. D. Ark., said the committee decided "as a matter of courtesy" to defer them until the President addresses the nation Nov. 3. The hearings were called to disuss various antiwar measures introduced by critics of the war, including a bill to require total 
withdrawal by Dec. I, 1970. 
PAGE 4 
THE 


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
DONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Publisher GAETANO DE SAPJO, Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3 1966 

Black studies 

Thomas Musial's report that the Committee for Black Students is finalizing definite plans for a black studies program should dispel the belief that the university is sitting on its hands when it comes to black studies. 
Musial, secretary of the committee that was set up last year, outlined a number of definite proposals that the board was to vote on at a meeting last night. Especially significant is the fact that the committee's work will keep the black studies program from getting lost in a larger ethnic studies 
program. The broad outline for coursed, the creation of an Archive for Black Arts and Sciences which would provide for films, video tape documents, artifacts, extensive telecommunications hookups, and library materials will be meaningless without the selection of a black director for the entire effort. The problem with finding a director lies in the fact that almost every major college and university in the country is looking for one. Qualified directors are scarce and money is an all important factor in attracting one. 
Father Hesburgh at his meeting with students three weeks ago, emphasized that getting the program off the ground was his top priority. We believe he is sincere in that effort. 
We hope however, that the administration is not moving unilaterally on the issue. The Committee for Black Students has six black members who have a say in what suggestions will be made on the content of the program. However, Dr. Thomas Stewart, special assistant to Father Hesburgh is working independantly on the problem of finding a director. We feel that he should remember the need to get student opinion on the type of director that should be obtained. 
Student participation in the decision will occur only if students realize the need to approach Dr. Stewart and other members of the administration with their opinions. The people responsible for making decisions should not have to guess which students have ideas on the issue and need to be approached. Students with definite ideas on the black studies program have to come forward and present them. 

Alumni problem 

Tensions have arisen in Alumni Hall over Sunday night's scuffle in the room of Matt Connelly. 
The Observer story on the incident was Connelly's version of what happened. It was that way because no one know the names of the people of the other party to the incident. 
Since the article was printed we have got several reports from blacks that all the factors in the incident were not reported. The blacks felt however, that it was too late now to report the side of the incident. We feel that is not the case since the community deserves to hear both sides of the case. 
The Observer does not intend to preside as judge and jury over any situation. We feel also that no student or group of students on campus have 
Ed Roickle Vietnam Moratorium 
I think there is a very real danger that the Vietnam Moratorium is being, or has been, co-opted by the very system it is addressing itself to. 
In New York City, for instance, Mayor Lindsay announced his support for the Moratorium, and ordered that flags be flown at half-staff and that bells be tolled at noon. Is this the same Mayor Lindsay who high-handedly engineered the municipal election ballot change this past September? (The mayor's machine had the Socialist Workers and the Socialist Labor Parties thrown off the ballot; it is being contested in the courts.) Is this the same man who allowed police to close schools in New York City last year, against the wishes of both parents and students? The same one who used pressure tactics 
to force and end to the Sanitation Workers strike? You bet he is, and he knows exactly what he is doing. He's taking a calculated pohtical risk that antiwar sentiment, particularly among minority groups and the poor, as well as among white liberals, will elect him mayor. 
Here at Notre Dame, Senator Goodell took much the same stand as Lindsay took. He maintained that the United States made a mistake in getting into Vietnam, and that now we should get out. He explained that his Senate Bill set a limit of Dec. I, 1970, so that the Thieu government would have a chance to stabilize itself. Here is the danger we must guard against: the obfuscation of the real issues implicit in Vietnam. 
Vietnam was not a mistake. Our financing of the French occupying forces, the establishment of the Diem puppet govern­ment, and the subsequent escalation of the Vietnam conflict were the direct results of a calculated risk the United States took to protect her worldwide imperialist interests. It was necessary for the United States to make an example somewhere to frighten other nations into submitting to her foreign policy. What the United States did not count on was the stiff popular resistance it encountered in Vietnam. 
Now the death toll rises, and the cost in men and money becomes unbearable to a large segment of the U.S. population. No longer do many people buy such myths as the international communist conspiracy and the domino theory. The South Vietnamese govern­ment has been shown up for what it is-a puppet government without popular support which owes its continued existence to the force of American arms. Now we are spoon fed a new myth-the myth of the mistake-in order to take our attention off the real issues of the oppression, racism, and imperialism which make up 
U.S. 
foreign and domestic policies. When the Vietnamese conflict is over, what then? If the present 

U.S. 
policies continue there will be another. Right now we are supporting unpopular, oppressive governments in Brazil, Angola, and Iran to name but a few. One of these could easily become the next country in which the U.S. will try and defend its foreign policy. 


lindsay, Goodell and the others know this. They all have a big stake in the present system of government, and they're doing their best to make sure it continues. So it serves Goodell very well to talk about mistakes, while ignoring the disease which infests the whole system of which he is a part. Likewise it serves Lindsay well to support the Moratorium. It may be his last chance for reelection by an electorate which attacks him from all points of the political spectrum. 
Beware of those who harp on Vietnam as a mistake. Look to the disease and not just to the symptoms. Unless we address ourselves to the basic problems of imperialism, racism, and oppression which underiy the Vietnam conflict and our whole society, then there will be many Vietnams, both foreign and domestic. 
that perogative either. Some members of Alumni Hall, both black and white, have expressed the feeling that they are not going to let Connelly and the other members of the incident work out the situation among themselves through the proper judicial channels. We feel that Connelly and the others involved have the right to work out a just settlement of their differences. They are meeting with Father Riehle this afternoon to discuss the situation. We feel that the other members of Alumni Hall can only hinder justice from being done by trying to involve themselves in the situation in any way.  David Breen, Business Manager Photo Editor: Phil Bosco Timothy J. Dineen:·Ad.Mgr. Features Editor: Tom Ehrbar News Editor: Glenn Corso Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Copy Editor: David Stauffer Night Editor: Cliff Wintrode Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, t;opy: t"rue Wear Ann Conway, Laura Haferd, Jeanne Layout: Marilyn Becker Sweeney, Prudence w., Headlines: Rick Smith, Frank Layout Editor: Mary Bath Crimmins Weigand The opinions in the editorials, news analyses, and columns of THE OBSERVER are solely those of the authors and editors of THE OBSERVER and do not nec;essarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administrations, faculty or student bodies.  
..  '-Jo\l \("Dw we\,e ~ s.o w.a"''-' ~e~ ~e"a a"'l s.o .w\l'-~ W\o~•~ '~ ·,r \\\it\-•..  Reprinted from the March 1, 1969 issue of the OBSERVER.  


WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1969 

Who is the walrus? 

by Bob Mastro 
"Couldn't sleep at all last night." ridiculous lyrks unconsciously pasted 
Bel ween the shadows crawling across the together out of context from the 
black light posters on my wall and the wllection of Beatie discs I'd memorized 
headlight ballt:t on my transom and over the years. 
mirror, I remained awake, contemplating "The Magical Mystery Tour is dying to 
the days headlines. take you away, take you today, he blew 
After careful evaluation of the issues, I his mind out in a car. Be didn't notice 
decided that, winning out over Vietnam, that the lights had changed. They'd seen 
inflation, the draft, and the following his face before. And nobody seems to 
day's French test, I would ponder know him or the sound he appears to 
profusely the l(Uestion 'Is Paul make. I get by with a little help from my 
McCartney dead?' friends ... Billy Shears ... And here's another 
Then my phone rang-"Man, hold up due for you all, the walrus is Paul. If I 
the third picture in Magical Mystery Tour ain't dead already, girl you know the 
to a black light. There's a phone number reason why. The worm, he picks my 
on it." bone. I feel so suicidal, just like Dylan's 
Another voice promplly intruded; Mr. Jones. Why don't we do it in the road? 
"Mary Fran's got a London Teen She was in a car crash and she lost her 
Magazine and guess who won that look hair ... " ..."By the time I get to 
alike cocontest? You'll never believe this." Phoenix ... " 
"Let me guess. William Shears." Obviously my mind had wandered out 
"Yeah. llow'd you know?" of its time. But Glen Campbell? Well, geez, 
"I'm the eggman, dork." it was like 4 a.m. 
"Yeah, well what about the walrus -Nothing lost, nothing gained however, 
in black and everything? What about the for two seconds later, the phone rang 
black carnation? What about the hand over again. 
his head, and the grave wreath guitar? Long distance from Grace Tower...... 
What about the O.P.D. on his sleeve and "Bob, dig this ... 
the black English horn symbolism, and I called Blue Jay in Strawberry Fields 
the bare feet? What about... Don't you London, and I've got a ticket to ride, so 
have anything to say about that?" I'm leaving on a jet plane and once I get 
"What about it?" there I have to drive out to Abbey Road 
"Oh, you're not good,gabye." Geez,I and yell goo-goo-ga-joob in Italian three If you drop a Sergeant Pepper album it sounds like a car crash. 
thought she'd never hang up. limes, and after that some meter maid's 
So, I in my u-trow and my roomie in supposed to pick me up in a taxi by the number." "Oh yes," she explained Polishly, "but his nightcap had just settled down to a shore of the Thames and take me to "Oh, sorry." that's different. I mean, after all, that's five hour nap, when what to my Pepperland. (Now if I were him I'd "That's okay, good hearing from you; soul music." 
wondering eyes should appear, but t[·.e ~robably take the last train from see ya, bye." (Silly Savage!) What does one say? With that, I tucked rector. It seems he had played "I wanna Clarkesville or something soulful, like a Meanwhile, back at the turntable, easy my head back unrier the pillow and hold your hand," back wards on Father Led Zepplin or the Grand Funk Railroad) l A in Howard Hall was ice-skating prayed extempore for the resolution of Burtchal's fountain pen and had And, hey, guess who else's dead-Aretha backwards over Revolution 9, and getting this momentous universal problem. And deciphered some secret code. I attempted Franklin." 
all sorts of hidden clues. By this time the since, like dear Fr. Rector had noted. I to explain to him that his efforts had "How'd you find that out?" 
maid had showed up, unable to remain at couldn't just lie there b I a n k I y,been futily directed toward relics too "You really want to know?" 
home any longer at 5 am she got up and, unthinking, in the shadows of the goldenearly to be of any great significance, "Yeah, really." 
silently closing the bedroom door, she dome from which all power eminates, I whereupon he revealed that he knew as "Well, I heard it through the left home and headed straight for the dismissed the myth looming over much, but that had been the only record grapevine." 
Howard Annex. teendom, and trudged on to lesser things, of the Beatles that he could scrounge up, "Save me. By the way, with whom "How can you people listen to the falling asleep wondering if we'd ever getand he just couldn't sit back under such have I been speaking?" 
music of a dead man?" she spouted, out of that damn Vietnam catastrophe
circumstances and do nothing. "Chuck-Chuck Nau. Isn't this Bob tucking my head under the pillow in a and how the next moratorium days
No more than a few minutes after he Miller?" mechanical attempt to make my bed. would turn out. 
left I found myself singing all sorts of "No, I think you have the wrong "Why not?" l replied spritely. "After all "I'm not scared of dying and I don't 
my dear maid, we still listen to Otis really care. If it's peace you find in dying, 
Redding albums, don't we?" then let the dying time be near."

The plight of the T.A.'s 
This is the fourth article in a series describing the numerous difficulties which face the Teaching Assistants here 

Feature hate mail
at Notre Dame. The English department will .rerve as a model. 
by Julienne Empric 
"Bundles of energy:' the floor to jump and dance, Those who choose to combine other words, the teachin~:~ profession with you apparently elected to studying and teaching in the Department all its demands and decisiOns belongs as remain a repressed bundle of 
of English at the University of Notre much to the Teaching Assistants as it Editor: nerves. Perhaps this is the answer Dame do not go unpunished. They belongs to any full faculty member. Yet 1 have been meaning for some to your complaints of inability immediately become members of an there is still the misnomer Teaching time to comment on Mr. to hear the vocals, which were anomalous group, referred to as "teaching Assistant; still, for all practical purposes, Brogan's review of the Chambers piped through a P.A. system in 
he is unaccepted as a faculty member;
assistants," whose duties require Brothers concert. It seemed to the ceiling, when the crowd reconciling personal interests in full-time still, he is denied the recognition, reflect a basic misunderstanding blocked the view of the stage 
remuneration, and the privileges due from your seat. The reason you
doctoral study with the professional of contemporary rock-ironically
faculty members, although he performs
demands of a virtually full-time teaching enough, sharing the feature page heard only guitars was that, for load. They are a breed which, like the duties commensurate with faculty status. with a "serious" essay on that nearly all of "Time lias Come," vanishing parochial school nun, must Neither can the Teaching Assistant be musical form. the boys weren't singing, only 
fully-accepted as one of the graduate playing and dancing and
content itself with the psychological So the Brothers were 
community. His desire, like the desire of beaming-figuratively jumping
remuneration of being given the "bundles of energy , ... amazing."? 
opportunity to teach, and the fervent the full-time, non-teaching graduate What do you think they were off stage into a celebration that hope for a more tangible reward in the student, is to broaden his scope in here for, a blackface minstrel they weren't 1oo proud to join. hereafter. Unlike their soul-sisters, literature and to explore the subtleties of show? Were you there to leer at They had acheived their object 
however, the Teaching Assistants cannot his own field of study. Like other them or to react to what they and were taking part in· their sufficiently capture that spirit of graduate students, he must meet presented? A rock gig, creation. unconcern for things temporal which the departmental requirements. Yet the particularly in the case of this To follow the completion of life of the religious community offers Teaching Assistant has a personal group, is not a polite social that outburst, the climax and when it assumes the costs of food, commitment to another (albeit related) occasion but audience­denoument of such rampant clothing, lodging and medical expenses. profession: every hour given to teaching participation theater, made catharsis, with 22 minutes of 
The situation of the Teaching Assistant and its related functions is an hour taken especially compelling as art performance by emotionally is clear to him alone. Although he is from the pursuit of his own interests in because of the constant dramatic exhausted musicians would be called "assistant," there exists no teacher literature, or from his free time. potential of real-life revelry. The the most tedious sort of whom he aids for a specific number of The predicament of the Teaching Chambers Brothers, like any anti-climax. I can't beleive you hours per week. He is entirely responsible Assistant is that he must decide between acid-rock band, aren't playing sat through that evening with for six actual hours of teaching per week: being a good teacher and being a good their guitars half so much as your eye on the clock! What the instruction, guidance and grading of student. If he refuses to make the easy they are playing the nerves and could you possibly have wanted from forty to sixty undergraduates­choice, if he expends the enormous time brains of a live audience. to be moved-an Aztec human indiscriminately grouped, and thus and energy to perform both jobs well-at They may have been "bundles sacrifice? requiring even more hours of individual least as well as the situation allows-if he of energy," Mr. Brogan-but no Hopefully, one day we'll get attention. And after these six actual must condense his teaching/studying more so than you and the rest of off our thrones and learn to get hours of presentation each week, there is workload so that it somehow requires no the audience. (I have Berkeley, along, and you'll find out, Mr. the unspecified hours spent preparing for more hours in a day than he has available, Hume, and Kant to back me up Brogan, you's a nigger just like classes, marking papers, meeting and then there should be no question of value on that point.) While hundreds everybody else. communicating with students during of his time, and no impediment should be of normally sedate (even Till then, peace & love, office hours, and developing and adapting tolerated that bars him from a just uptight) students thronged on Tom Henehan creative challenges to supplement and remuneration for that time spent in .~cason the material in the syllabus. In service to the university . 
THE OBSERVER. 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1969

PAGE 6 


Letters 
Civil disobedience 
Editor, 
In response to the events and discussions of the recent Moratorium, I would like to clarify my position on Civil Disobedience. 
The United States is founded and stands on its Constitution. If we are to be citizens, we are to support and uphold that document. · 
The constitution states that the people have the right to elect representatives who shall make the laws which govern the land and to set up punishments for those who do not wish to obey these laws. It establishes an executive branch of government to enforce these laws and a judicial branch to judge, first, if the defendant is guilty of breaking the law, and second, if that law is in conjunction with the principles upon which this country is founded, as established in the constitution. 
A man must follow his conscience, a right preserved under the law. He can choose to obey the law he feels is just and disobey the law he feels is unjust, inspite of the fact that the majority of the people's representatives feel it is justified. He must, however, feel strongly enough in his convictions to bear the consequences of his actions. 
Accordingly, a man has the· right to destroy his draft card or refuse induction if he is willing to serve his sentence as established by the legislature and upheld by the court. But no man has the right to in any way infringe upon the rights of others in voicing his dissent, such as destroying draft files or 
causing harm or inconvenience to any other person. Dissent is possible under the 
law. The constitution established not only the right to free speech, free press, and free religion, but also the right to petition. If a law which is established no longer has the backing of the majority of the people, they have the right to petition the government to change the law to recall their elected officials, and to elect representatives who will carry out the will of the people. If one can prove that the majority of the people do not agree with the law, through petition or elections, then the law must be changed. Demonstrations, rioting and violence, on the other hand, do not prove anything; they merely voice the opmwns of the dissenters. They are fine in bringing ideas out, but they have no consequence on the law. Therefore, isn't it wiser and more effective to dissent within the law? 
One further note, it is my 
Political activism 
Editor: 
It seems that after October l 5, Notre Dame could no longer be called apathetic, if it was that before. That political activism has arrived is obvious to all; from there opinions diverge. 

However, all such beliefs aside, who has the authority to associate Christ with any partic­was questioning a West Pointer. She expressed herself quite well and was succeeding in over­whelming this fellow with all sorts of present day troubles in America caused· by the Viet Nam debacle. As my friend was telling me this I secretly relished the thought of this far-out intelli­gent chic confronting some guy who I imagined could not see beyond the stripes of his uni­
form. 
My friend then told me how she started to get caustic, goad­ing this fellow to answer her points which had now developed into accusations. The cadet, si­lent up to this point replied mildly: "l respect your right to dissent, and I am willing to give my life to preserve that right." 
Vincent M. Spolen 
207 Dillon 
Moratorium dialogue? 

opinion that we, the people, have the right to require of all
Stepan Center 
citizens who benefit under our system of government to serve in.
Dance Spectacular 
the armed forces unless they conscientiously object to killing under any circumstances, the 
in Person 
The 
same as we have the right to tax the citizenry. In addition, we

BOX TOPS 
have the right to exempt some 
''Soul Deep"-''The Letter" etc. 
people from serving us for any reason, for any period of time. 
Perhaps I'm a naive conservative, but I shall remain 
The Mystic Love 
in support of our system of government, and work within it 
Plus 
Tom Rivers, WJVA Deejay 
to correct its wrongs, until 
someone presents a better idea.
Thurs. Oct. 23 Admission $2.50 
Patty Lipscomb 
8:00-11:30 p.m. 



Did Y-Ou like beer the first time you tasted it? 
A lot of people say no. They say beer is Beechwood Aged; it's beer is one of those good things a costly way to brew beer, and you cultivate a taste for . . . like it takes more time. But it olives, or scotch, or 
works.) kumquats. So whether you're 
Maybe. But we one of the few who think it makes a dif­has never tried beer, ference which brand of or a beer drinker who beer we're talking suddenly feels the about. urge to find out why 
We think Budweiser so many people enjoy is an exception to this "you've Budweiser, we think you'll gotta get used to it" rule. It's like it. so smooth. (You see, no other From the very first taste. 
Budweiser®is the King ofBeers. 
ular political opinion? By that I Editor,mean the implication through In lieu of the praise which will destruction of draft cards in undoubtedly be lavished on theMass that Christ supports the success of the Moratorium, I'mpurely political nonviolence afraid I must dissent. I mean, itmovement. Purely political be­was great if you like parades and cause the teaching authority of picnics, but the dialogue andthe Church has not issued a discussion, which was the es­proclamation, like the one on sense of the Moratorium, seemed birth control, stating that indiv­nowhere to be found. 
idual compliance with U.S. draft Sincerely,laws today is immoral. The sub­Bill McGregorject is a matter of free con­207 St. Ed'sscience and Christians differ P.S. I know of no one whowidely on it. To imply that favors automobile accidents, yetChrist, and thus the Church, approximately two million took supports criminal resistance place last year. 
against the U.S. draft system is thus a type of clericalism by which the Church ceases to be 
Tie one for ND 

catholic or even Christian. A Mass for peace is commend­able, appealing to man's highest 
Editor:goals. A Mass of resistance, how­I would like to comment on aever, destroys Catholic unity of statement attributed to USCfaith. 

Coach John McKay in OctoberYours truly, 

l9's South Bend Tribune. Coach

Bob Jensen McKay supposedly stated that502 Hanner 
"If l had been Ara, I'd have gone for two". Let me first remind Coach McKay that he had the same

West Point 
opportunity one year ago with the score 21-20 against him. In both games there was a lot ofEditor time left when the score wasThis weekend a cadet from made. Coach McKay apparently West Point came out to Notre either has a short memory orDame. We are old friends, even figures that, for him, the tie isthough the road he has taken is better than a long gamble. As itnowhere near the one I am was, Irish strategy almostthinking is right. He maintains resulted in a 17-14 victo.ry. Ian open mind, however, and suppose this would have bettereven describes the academy as a pleased Coach McKay. 

place that "is more like an Army Let me also state that, for
playing school than a school playing army." almost three years now, Notre 
We spoke of the Moratorium 
Dame and Ara Parseghian have activities back at the Point. 
been criticized for one of their finest efforts. It seems that the Apparently they centered rest of the world will never let us 
around outside students from 
forget the last minute of that New England colleges who had game. I thought at least John come down to New York in an 
McKay was one who wouldn't attempt to turn on the trapped 
open his big mouth. cadets to what is happening. 
Sincerely, He mentioned one incident 
Jim Lehner where a young lass from Vassar 411 Fisher 
PITT WEEKEND 
Final Ticket Sales 
(But you know that.) 

Tonight 7:30 2D LAFORTUNE
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS • NEWARK • LOS ANGELES • TAMPA • HOUSTON o COLUMBUS 

Graduate Student Union run by Ph. D. candidates 
After several attempts graduate students." had tht~ opportunity to present and is presently pursuing studies been some strong agitation on 
o v e r the past three years, The governing body of this his views and proposals. for the PhD under a Reilly the part of Teaching Assistants graduate students of the organization, the Graduate Fellowship in the department of
Chosen president was Mr. regarding their low rates of pay,University of Notre Dame have Student Council, is composed of Chemistry, while continuing his
James King, PhD candidate in these meetings were both cordial organized themselves into a representatives from each inten~st in economics.
the department of Sociology, a and fruitful, according to Mr. "Graduate Student Union." department of the graduate 
30 year old veteran of the U.S.· King, with all concerned offering
The constitution made no
At a meeting in early school, one person for each 
Air Force, and for the last few every aid for the success of the
provision for secretaries, butSeptember, a majority of the twenty students, chosen by the years a prefect in Pangborn Hall organization.
approximately 1300 graduate students of the department. they are being appointed as
dormitory.
students in residence, accepted a Officers of the Union are elected needed. Currently acting as A full meeting of the
Vice-president is Dennis
provisional constitution to "gain at large from the student body recording secretary is James Graduate Student Council is
Moran, 26 years old, a graduate
repn:sentation for the graduate by the members of the Council. Sweetland, PhD candidate in the scheduled for this Friday, 14
of Youngstown State University,
students in the total structure of The first meeting of the department of History. Octover, at 12:00 in the library
and a former teaching assistant
the university community, Council was held on l 0 October, auditorium, to take up the
at Notre Dame. Mr. Moran is
promote excellence in graduate with 16 departments, Thus far omens for the questions of the status of
presently doing research on his
education at Notre Dame, seek representing over 1,000 success of the organization are 
departments not yet

PhD dissertation in the
and secure the highest possible students, in attendance. Officers good. The elected officers have represented, possible admission
department of English under a
quality in the lives of graduate for the coming year were elected met with all major of students in the Law School
Schmidt fellowship.
students, and to act on behalf of at this meeting. Each candidate administrative officials of the and the Business School to the Marshall Moffat, the University, including the Rev. Union,the organization of Treasurer, was graduated with Theodore M. Hesburgh, committees, and the adoption of
Brandt elected leader 
Honours from McGill University, President. Although there has 'll'Cl'ssary by Iaws. 
BONN, (UPI) -Willy Brandt When Parliamentary President was elected chancellor yesterday Kai uwe von Hassel asked him if 

Liberal Arts values upheld by Kirk 
to become West Germany's first he accepted the vote, Brandt Social Democratic head of gov­
bounded from his first row seat ourselves and develop order in technical and ruled by "cold ernment. 
and said, "Yes, Mr. President, I (continued [rom page 1) our society from this study. logic;" when this happens
The Christian Democrats who accept the election." Kirk concluded that if society "interesting philosophy and so had governed the republic since 
Former Chancellor Kurt inagination" is tn the allows its universities to forth" will be eliminated. Dr. 
it was founded in 1949 became Georg Kiesinger was among the "communications of the dead" continue educating technicians Kirk said society is "slippingthe parliamentary opposition for first to congratulate Brandt, who which is a study of the great and students who only know the into a dirth of imagination" and the first time. 
· had served Kiesinger as foreign philosophers and their insights facts of liberal education and "unless the aims of liberal Brandt will head the country's minister for three years. to the true nature of man. We not the reasoning behind the education are revived, we shall first Socialist government since Brandt later told a television should learn how to govern facts, it will become highly perish." interviewer, "I am proud to be .-------------------·---------··-------------~
IIermann Mueller was forced out allowed to exercise this high of­of office in 1930, making pos­fice. But I also know the re­sible the rise of the Nazis. 
sponsibility it bears." He then Brandt was elected on the asked his friends and others to 
Splros Men's Shop
first ballot by 251 votes to 235 "help us achieve during the next in the Bundestag, or lower house four years that which must be 
of parliament. He needed 249 since 1891
achieved for the federal repub­for election. 
lic." Brandt's Social Democrats K iesinger said his Christian Clothing by Hart, Shaffner and Marx, Van Heusen, hold 224 seats and his Free Democratic party would con­
Democratic allies 30 seats in the duct a "fair opposition." He said Pendleton and Jantzen Bundestag, total of 254. There differences in Brandt's coalition were five abstentions and four would force the new chancellor 
invalid ballots. 
His story 




was censored... 
But some got through. They'll tell you their stories­unabridged. 
Unabridged-that's the kind of Europe we give you. Involvement with the total culture: talking, listening, meeting, sharing. 
Sure, you'll get the sights, the beaches, and some swinging parties-and you'll enjoy them. But then, anybody can give you those. We give you the facts behind the sights, the reasons behind the events. And we do it through the people. 
We dish up the real Europe-from the mod up-beat action of Carnaby Street to the philosophical intensity of the Left Bank. 
You get the agony and the ecstasy; action and involvement. Because that's what Europe is all about. 
P.O. Box 2388. Gwynne Building. Cincinnati. Ohio 45201 
Please send me the full color. illustrated booklet. "European Discovery-1970 College Student Programs". available at 
no cost to  University of Notre Dame Students (PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY)  
NAME CURRENT ADDRESS  
CITY  STATE  ZIP  
TELEPHONE HOME ADDRESS  
CITY  STATE  ZIP  

P.S. We advise those desiring a hold-my-hand-lrom-monu­
·monument student tour. to look elsewhere. 
PAGE 8 THE O.&WlUEil WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22,1969 
Look homeward, soldier, from Vietnam 
The following was submitted to us by Maura Carroll, a sophomore at St. Mary's College. Joseph Carroll, the author of the article and her brother is currently serving in Vietnam. The article originally appeared in the Rockland County Journal-News of Nyack, New York. Carroll wrote it from a hospital in 
Vietnam while he was recovering from wounds received in action at an advanced firebase along the Cambodian border some 40 miles northwest of Saigon. He has received the Army Commendation Medal and the Purple Heart for distinguished service. -ed: 
There is a war being waged, and it is a war of annihilation. And for the first time in the history" of this nation, it is a war intended to annihilate the American soldiers fighting it. Somewhere in the course of the war a new philosophy emerged, and this philosophy has broadened in its scope, deepened in its implications until now, in this eighth year of battle, we must realize the philosophy as patent national policy. It has three basic tenets: The soldier is an enemy. The war is an atrocity. The military is an ignominy. 
The military est<~ blishment has come 
under fire not only from minority 
dissidents, as has been the trend in wars 
past, but by the rank and file of the 
nation. It is harangued in the press and in 
the media, in the homes of its citizens 
and in the very chambers of its Senate. Its 
recruiters are attacked on campuses, its 
records, along with the flag of this nation, 
are burned in the streets; all by 
citizen-vigilantes who manifest no shame 
in the open act. 
The power of rational thought has been lost in the shuffle, discarded in the emotional upsweep of black and red banners. The ends are not considered, the means have become ends in themselves. The iconoclasts have accepted a doctrine that demands no thought to consequences; a mass hysteria has developed to obviate the necessity of logical thought. Review the expedients and consider the possible end. 
I. ABOLISH ROTC: Lower the quality of the military leader. Make the Army grovel for officers. 
2. HATE THE MILITARY MAN: Remove the dignity and the respect from the service of one's country. Leave the man an enemy to his own people. 
3. 
SKELETONIZE appropriations: Inform the generals that the nation is no longer concerned with what they consider absolutely essential to the support of the man in the field. Inform them that they'll have to cut corners, regardless of the consequences. 

4. 
DISCREDIT The Generals: Allow the Senators to criticize the Generals on their own ground, to dictate to the Generals how to run the war. 

5. 
UNDERMINE the spirit of the Soldier: Let him know that the nation for which he is fighting considers him dirt, considers his leaders inept, considers his cause futile. 


The situation that has arisen is so 
absolutely ludicrous that a rational man 
would question the very foundations of a 
nation that could permit it. We accepted 
the situation for so long that we have 
taken it in stride, and no longer consider 
its deathly irreversible implications. The 
situation, basically stated, is this: We are 
waging a war to lose. 

We have no intention of winning this 
war, we have no intention of moving 
forward or backward. The present policy 
is simply to sit tight in a combat area and 
hope that the casualty rate of 300 
Americans a week will not fluctuate 
appreciably up or down. This situation 
can be no more apparent than in the 
recent testimony of the General who 
replied in testimony before the Senate 
Armed Services Committee. "We haven't 
escalated the war. We've had Jess 
battalion-size actions this year than last 
year. It's them, ~hey're the guys trying to 
win the war." 

A GENERAL on the defensive. 
Nothing does the heart more good. And 
how, indeed, could he stand under the 
bombastic accusation that he is actually 
trying to win the war? This nation has 
reached the point where it no longer 
attempts to disguise the enmity it holds 
for its own military forces. A general, 
accused of try1ng to win, and 
cons~qu~ntly end a war, is forced to cry 
out m h1s defense that it is not true that 
he wouldn't think of such a betrayal of 
the nation. An army is hobbled, its soldiers are 
disgraced, its appropriations are cut, its officer corps is undermined. Is the enemy capable of inflicting more damage from without than are the American people from within? This nation has left an ar111y in the field, and has given them express instructions to sit and die; its greatest shame being the desire to win the war. 
WHAT OF THE FIGHTING man in Vietnam? What of the man in the rice paddies who realizes that he is thr sacrificial lamb of a nation that suddenly "changed its mind"? What of the man who 
realizes that his purpose is simply to wait until the politicians can find an excuse for withdrawing him, while his numbers drop off in the hundreds each week? And for what purpose? Is there a greater horrm than dying without a purpose? This natior. has no intention of supporting them. Then why do they continue to do battle? Either they are disbelieving that their people could actually betray them in this manner or are too dedicated to the ideals which the nation has since abandoned to be concerned with the betrayal of that nation. What has no one informed them that the political situation has taken a turn, and that death is now in vain? 
And to be completely consistent in the absurdity, the nation sits at the conference table and attempts to win an "honorable" peace, while the enemy knows full well that they are hobbled and are no longer a serious threat. What bargaining tool can be effective when an enemy knows that you are totally resigned to defeat and withdrawal? 
ON THE CONDUCT of the war itself, 
Senator Teddy Kennedy has accused the 
military of mismanaging the war. 
Hamburger Hill, for example, was not 
"handled well." And Senator Kennedy is, 
of course, an authority on military 
matters. Who could cast shame upon a 
man who has the guts and courage to 
speak out against war-mongering generals? 
Vote? What have votes to do with truth 
and justice and good old righteous 
indignation of ogre generals! 
And, of course, it's always good sport 
to attack a man you have officially bound 
and gagged. General William 
Westmoreland, queried as to the validity 
of Senator Kennedy's statements replied 
in typically aggressive fashion: "I do not 
think it proper for me to comment on the opinions of a Senator." And when asked if it were at all proper to comment on the tactical situation in the first place, replied: "I do not think it proper for me to comment on what is proper for a Senator to comment on." 
We have lived with the irrationality so long that we have accepted it, let it go unchallenged, and it has reached a point where our minds now refuse to question, refuse to sift through the facts and reach a logical conclusion. What better witness to this than the proclaimed end of the 
agitators? That end, of course, is the total abolition of the Military. 
BUT THIS, TOO, can be accepted with the same non-thinking ambiance. For who would be foolish enough, in this day of idealism and love, to suggest that we actually need an Army to protect the nation? Who would be unpatriotic enough to suggest that force is a legitimate instrument of national policy? Who would be naive enough, in this frenzy of peace and charity and good-will, to suggest that we cannot trust our brothers and Russians and the Chinese? 
When did we first start to obviate the practical in lieu of the idealistic? When did we first begin to believe that a nation can survive without an Army? When did we first begin to believe that the Communists are brother-lovers? When did this once 
mighty nation succumb to the belief that a defense can be managed without strength, that a nation can be preserved without might, that ideals which we 
consider precious can survive in a world 
where they are attacked on all fronts, and 
we are left with only our slogans and Jove 
beads to protect us? 
And then there is the voiceless man in the field. The one who cannot defend himself, for, like General Westmoreland he is too bound by honor and duty t~ speak against the will of the people. The m!litary !radition is one of compliance w1th national demands, not arguments. The soldier is an n [ nted cause, a burden, and a drain. He is the man in the field who reads of his own malevolence and ignominy in the papers of his country. He is the man who sits in the rice paddies of the murky Delta and wonders why the BS 2 strikes have been cut when they are sorely needed. He wonders why his country has forsaken him. 

Board committee makes recommendations 
(continued from page 1) 
that within the year plans be looked into for building a new library. The building would offer more study and typing areas, expanded audio-visual facilities, and office space. 
If passed, the proposal goes to 
the Library Committee which 
will make the investigation. 
The committee was informed 
by Sr. M. Alma, special assistant to the President in charge of foreign studies, that SMC is purchasing a seminary in Rome from the Holy Cross Order. 
The move is part of an expansive program which hopes to make study there possible for 70 sophomores (and juniors, if their schedules permit) as of September, 1970. Students in the program will pay the $3200 they pay now. 

The college hopes to make a profit if it can manage to have the building donated. The student fees could then be applied elsewhere. 
Rome classes next year will be conducted in English and there will probably be no language requirement for admission. However, beginning September 1972 at least one year of Italian will be necessary. 
Defense department critics leak United States military secrets 
WASHINGTON (UPI)­Senate critics of the recently passed $20 billion weapons procurement bill exposed defense secrets wholesale during their debate, Sen. Strom Thurmond, R. S.C., said yesterday. 
Thurmond, while acknowledging the bill's opponents had a right to details about the proposed weapons, said they could have studied classified records inste<Jd of airing details on the Senate floor. 
Thurmond, in a Senate speech, said that during the six weeks of debate, defense critics went to "unprecented length" to 
challenge the weapons item by item and spread secret information on the public record. 
"During this debate the thought often occurred to me that our enemies would have been required to pay millions to espion<~ge agents for the information revealed in a copy of the Congressional Record," Thurmond said. 
Referring to the bill carrying the Nixon Administration's proposed Safeguard antiballistic missile system and a wide variety of other weapons, and now pending in the House, Thurmond said Senate debaters "precisely pinpointed locations of planned missile sites and expected interception points with enemy missiles, and discussed all points of strength and weakness of the proposed system. 

"Furthermore, we revealed to a large degree exactly what we know and what we do not know about the military strength and pl<~ns of the Russians and the Chines. 
"Can you imagine the copies of the Congressional Record which have been shipped to Russia, Chi<~n, Cuba, and other unfriendly countries during the last month." 
If St. Mary's students do not fill the quota, the program will be opened to students from other colleges and universities. 
The committee discussed the pass-fail system and made a statement to the effect that it encourages the investigation of, and further experimentation with, the system. 
According to Pam Carey, the other student representative to the committee, the statement was "a reinforcement of what is being done by the Academic Standards Committee" which stated the intention last spring. 
The SMC Development Committee made a recommendation to the Board that over the next three years five million dollars be raised to finance faculty salary increases and various academic programs. 
A large amount of the acquired sum would be allocated to physical building-extension of the library, expansion of the science facilities, and development in other vital areas which could be proven inadequate to student, faculty and administrative needs. 
The committee recommended that the remainder of the funds be used for scholarships and student aid. 
Julie Dwyer, student representative, said the plan would be to "hit the alumni, hunt down grants, and approach people who can afford to contribute significantly." 
The main recommendation made by the Student Policy Committee was that the advisory programs on campus be allowed to continue as they stand. It was felt that both the program headed by Miss Martucci and the system of orientation utilized this fall provide the best service for the student. 
However, Miss Martucci and the committee maintained that a need existed for more people qualifies in her field to handle the numbers of students asking for help with problems. 
The SMC Spiritual Life Coordinator, Fr. Richard Downs spoke on the different programs-such as the advances and the Stapleton Masses-existing as St. Mary's. He continued with a discussion of the role of the priests on campus and their relation to theology as presented to the students in their classes. 
Student representative Karen Schultze said of the committee "I think that the committee i~ acting in an informative capacity. I hope that in subsequent meetings that status will change." 
Eadh of these committees meet twice a year, the next meetings to be held in spring. 






