
VOL. Ill, Nu. 72 Serl'il-'; the f'/1•tre fJame and St. tv:ary's College Community___________F_R_I_D_A_Y..:..,_J_A_N_U_A_R_Y__n..:.·-19_6_9_ 
Senior Class Selects Sen. McCarthy 
Chuck Sheedy, Chairman of the Senior Class Fellow Committee, announced yesterday that Senator Eugene J. McCarthy (D. Minnesota) has been selected as the I 96Y
Ya Wanna Run for SBP? 
Senior Class Fellow. Sheedy said that McCarthy has 
accepted the Committee s invitation to spend two days on 
campus lectunng, teaching courses and meeting informally
Get in Line, My Friend with seniors. 
By TIM O'MEILIA 
Though the Student Body Presidential elections arc a month to a month and a half away, no one knows for sure, already gaping credibility gaps arc developing between possible candidates and their very real subordinates. 
Observer Insight 

There may be as many as seven presidential candidates. But, who knows, three or four other paranoid students may indulge their egos, just to provide a little competition in what could be the greatest array of Machiavellian politicians since the Orange Bowl Convention of sportswrite rs-wh a-picked-the Colts-but-Jove-the-Jets. 


\ 
MIKE KENDALL 

That's not to say that anyone has announced his candidacy as of yet, because that's akin to making the cover of Sports Illustrated. The only ones to make any definitive statements arc those who say they arcn't running. Judicial coordinator Bob Rigney is one of those. "There's been talk for a long time about tickets; my running as president on this ticket or 
cribed as honoring ''an indi­
vidual who has had the integrity, 
Nth Degree to Provide Scholarship 
The Saint Mary's coffeehouse, the Nth Degree, will provide a $2,000 scholarship for an incoming freshman next year. The coffeehouse, completely managed by Saint Mary's students, collected money for the scholarship through receipts at the door. The scholarship is open to students from the South Bend area. 
Other suppcsted criteria for the scholarship applicants include th<1t she be a non-Catholic, a member of a minority group not sufficiently represented at Saint Mary's, and financially in need. The Scholarship Committee will 
the decency, and the willingness
make the selection, and scholarship are flexible now, and 
to work for the best values and
coffeehouse managers Kathy can be changed in the future to 
finest traditions of our society,
Grady and Diane Smith will give suit the needs of the college. 
and at the same time can freely
final approval. The $2,000 will Selection of the scholarship 
join in and contribute to the
be distributed to the winner over winner will be made in 
spontaneous give-and-take of 
a four-year period. The only February. Students atSaint 
Notre Dame's social and intel­
requirement for retention of the Mary's are asked to encourage 
lectual life."
scholarship is that the winner people they may know in South 
The Senior Fellow program,
maintain a high enough Bend to apply. Students can 
modeled after the Chubb Fel­
grade-point to stay in school. continue the scholarship fund in 
lowship at Yale University, grew 
the future by attending the 

Manyagcr Kathy Grady hoped out of a class decision to change 
coffeehouse, open on 

that the scholarship winner the nature of the traditional
Sautrydaand Sunday nights from 


"would not be a typical Saint 
8 p.m. until midnight. All

Mary'c girl' Too many of the 
LAST ISSUE OF SEMESTER
receipts go into the fund. The

girls in this school come from 
Nth Degree was created last

the same background. We hope 
April to provide Saint Mary's 

After 72 issues, the OBSERVER staff has finally
through the scholarship fund to 
and Notre Dame students with 

decided to crack. the books. We will cease
provide a little variety in the 
relaxing atmosphere in which to 

publication until Wed. Feb. 5. Happy finals.
student body." Miss Grady 
talk or be entertained.

stressed that criteria for the 
vice-president on that. But I've 
decided not to run in any 
capacity," Rigney said, "but I 
will accept a draft." 
Neither is Student Life 
coordinator Larry Landry 
running. He said, "I will 
definitely run someone's 
campaign however." Landry 
currently supports Hall 
Presidents' Council Chairman 
Phil McKenna, who has not yet 
announced his candidacy. 
Landry was Rossie's campaign 
manager last year. 

McKenna did say that he was considering running for president. "Basically I don't consider any of the others capable enough to carry on Rossie's ideas." If McKenna 
jumps in Fred Dedrick will be his running mate "because I can trust him the most. He'a a hard 

RICK LIBOWITZ 
worker and we work together well," McKenna said. 
Lyons Hall Senator Mike Kendall has also been mentioned in connection with the presidency. "I've been giving it quite a bit of thought. I've spoken with my friends in and out of Student Government. But, for myself I'll be running for president and not for vice president, if I run." 
It has been a foregone conclusion that Academic Conunissioner John Mroz will run, as it was expected that Kendall would toss in his hat. "I will probably be running and Ted Jones will probably be my running mate." He mentioned that change was necessary in student government. 
Jones, who is Human Affairs Coordinator, isn't so sure that he'll be running on the same ticket with Mroz. "I've been approached by (Rick) Libowitz, Mroz and Kendall. But I don't know if I'll run on anyone's ticket as vice president. I may run for president on my own." Jones said. 
When asked about his connection with the Afro-American Society, Jones said, "I wouldn't like to run 

JOHN MROZ 
quote, for the Afro-Americall Society, unquote. I'd like their endorsement, just as I'd like the endorsement of all the organizations on campus. I'd like to run for Notre Dame." 
AAS President Art McFarland and his Vice President Walt Williams agreed that no decision had yet been made on whether the Society would sponsor a 
Continued on page 2 

In a telegram received yes­terday, McCarthy 'said: "I am pleased to accept your invitation for the Senior Class Fellow award at Notre Dame on March 5 and 6." 
Sheedy outlined the proposed agenda of the Senator's visit saying: "During one full day of his stay we would hope to have the Senator lead two informal morning discussions of approximately fifty minutes each in a government or political science class. Then, after having lunch with a group of seniors, he would give one afternoon lecture in a Theology of Marriage class and one auditorium lecture to approximately 250 seniors. The opportunity to meet informally with seniors and to savor the real university atmosphere of Notre Dame is what we are hoping to achit:ve. This is the core of our program; but the spontaneous give-and-take on our part as well as his is essential to its success." 
Other members of the Senior Fellow Committee include: Craig Fenech, in charge of com­piling an extensive biographical and political portfolio on the Senator to be distributed to each Senior, Bill Sweeny, Dave Meekison and Tom Alter, who are handling special arrange­ments. The Senator was chosen to be recipient of the Award by a special Selection committee composed of representatives from each of the campus news media, an at-large member of the Senior Class, and Charles Nau, Student Body Vice-President. 
McCarthy, who holds an honorary doctorate from Notre Dame given him in 1967 when he was the June commencement speaker, will deliver a formal address in Stepan Center the night of March 6. At this time the Senior Class will present him with its first fellow award, des­
EUGENE McCARTHY 
Patriot of the Year award, by which seniors yearly chose an outstanding American who was invited to speak on campus in 
ceremonies  normally  held  in  
conjunction  with  Washington's  
Birthday.  

Sheedy said that while ex­penses for the first year of the fellowship are being shared by the University and the Senior Class, the class is looking for gifts to endow the project on a permanent basis. 
A leading cntic of the Vietnam war, McCarthy took the issue to the nation's voters in the 1968 primaries but failed to get the party's nomination for president. He has said he will not run "as a Democrat" when his Senate term expires in 1970, but he has not entirely excluded the possibility of seeking re-election. 
Sen. McCarthy's most recent actions have brought some cri­ticism from his followers. He voted against Edward M. 
Kennedy's successful bid for the post of Senate "whip" and sur­rendered his seat on the pres­tigious Senate Foreign Relations Committee to Sen. Gale McGee (D., Wyo.), a supporter of the administration's Vietnam poli­cies. McCarthy was the junior Democratic · member of the committee and his move fol­lowed agreement of the Dem­ocratic Senate leaders to reduce the size of the group from 19 to 15 members. 
Among McCarthy's books arc "Frontiers in American Dem­ocracy," "Dictionary of Amer­ican Politics," "A Liberal Answer to the Conservative Challenge," and a volume of poetry entitled "And Tim!.! B~an." 



~~~---------------------------------------------------------~--;-------------------------------~~~~~~~ 

EQUESTRIAN CLUB 
LAUGHIN' PLACE STABLE, located in Niles, Michigan; offers to Notre Dame students an Equestrian program which includes not only indoor riding in a heated arena with instruction in Basic Horsemanship and Jumping, but also Cross-Country riding. 
Membership is open to both Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. For all interested, there will be a most important organizational meeting scheduled as follows: 
DATE Tuesday, Jan. 21 
PLACE Rm. 123 Nieuwland Science Hall 
7:30pm
TIME 

Further information is available by contacting: 
John Vogel, Chairman 
502 N. Lafayette Blvd. 
234-8651 


Announcing Pizza Hut has two locations: 
1738 Lincoln Way East 
2307 E. Edison 

QUALITY REIGNS SUPREME 
Sm. Lg. Mozzarella Cheese ............................................ 1.15 1.90 Sausage ............................................................. 1.65 2.55 Mushroom ........................................................ 1.65 
2.55 Pepperoni ......................................................... 1.65 2.55 Pizza Supreme .................................................. 1.80 3.15 Hamburger ....................................................... 1.65 2.55 Italian Sausage .................................................. 1.65 2.20 Added In g ........................................................... 15 .25 
BEER Budweiser ............................................................ 30 Michelob .............................................................40 

Four Seek SUP 
Applications have been re­ceived from four juniors for the 1969-70 Student Union Presi­dency. They are Jim Brogan, who recently resigned from the Student Union and now heads various committees; Dennis Clark, Student Government Public Relations Director; Leo Klemm, Junior Class President; and Dave Stumm, Business Manager of the Observer. 
Criteria for selection will be factual information, experience, and ideas--drawn from the ap­plication; and an interview, to be held Tuesday evening before the Student Union Board, made up of SBP Richard Rossie, SBVP Chuck Nau, Student Body Treasurer Dick Roderick, Union President Rich Rembusch, HPC Chairman Phil McKenna, Pro­fessor John Houk, and VP for Student Affairs Father McCarragher. 
However, if the Hunter-Davey Bill passes in the Student Senate on Monday, there will be no need for the applications, as the bill provides for an appointing of the Student Union President by the in-coming Student Body President. If the bill fails, the Board will announce the new Union President shortly after semester break. The new Union head will take office April 1. 

Student Power in Ads 
MADISON, Wis. (UPI)-Marc 
D. Kaufman, a University of Wisconsin junior and budding advertising man, didn't like the ads he saw in college news­papers. 
So he gathered about a dozen fellow Wisconsin students to­gether, named the group Kauf­man Associates, and proceeded to crack a major national adver­tising account. 
He sent letters to 25 ad agen­cies under the slogan: "We know how to reach ourselves. You cannot expect a man of 30 or 40 years of age to reach a market that changes spontaneously, and thinks and operates on its own wave lengths." 
D.P. Brother and Co., which handles the Oldsmobile account, was one of four firms to reply. 
Kaufman and the firm made their deal in Detroit last July and eight ads produced by the students will run in 140 college newspapers. They will deal with three Oldsmobile lines aimed at youth, and two ads have moved already. 
Kaufman uses words in the ads like "student power," and is trying to sell Oldsmobiles to his fellow students with words like the most powerful "radical engine," "liberal engine," the "moderate engine," and of course the "conservative 
engine." 

Seven Not Interested in SBP Race 
Continued from page 1 
candidate. 
Libowitz, who works for WSND and is currently organizing the Free Univers' would not admit that he'd aiming for the top spot either. "I'm thinking about running but I'm up to my ears in getting the Free U. underway. I won't make a decision until that is finished." 
Although Mroz said that his decision has not been made for certain, Junior Class President Leo Klemm has admitted that, "I am his campaign manager." Oops, somebody slipped up, 
John? And Ted Jones 



ATTENTION SOPHS-
If you will complete your first two years of college this spring ami have not had ROTC training, you now have a special opportunity to earn an Army officers commission in the next two years. You may qualify to fulfill your military obligation as an officer while you study for a college degree in the field of your choice. 
You will receive an allowance of $50 each month during your junior and senior years. If you desire, you may request postponement of your military service while you complete your studies for a graduate degree. 
Graduate students with two years of academic work remaining, may also apply for a commission under the two year program. 
Army ROTC 
For complete information and application for the Army ROTC Two Year program, attend the briefing at 7:00pm,

Two Year Program 
10 Feb. 1969, Rm. 217, ROTC building. 

spilled the beans on everyone. Klemm also said that he had considered running for president himself but that he "decided I could work best in the Student Union." Klemm applied for the Student Union Presidency this week. 
But that's not all. Earlier in the semester Young Americans for Freedom President Bob Narucki intimated that the YAF would become more active politically on campus. "We've discussed it, but we haven't decided yet. We're having difficulty finding somebody qualified in the eyes of all the 

huh,
t------------------------......::..------------'-------------..., students." Narucki said. or seven candidates
With six 
there's liable to be many a smoke-filled backroom in the next few weeks and come election week only two or three candidates. 


Times: Fri., Sat., & Sun. 2:15-5:15,8:15 Mon. thru Thurs. 8: 15 
The Observer Is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased tor $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 


FRIDAY, JANUARY 17,1969 THE OBSERVER. 
PAGE 3 

Marketing at IBM 

"You help company presidents solve their information handling problems." 
"It's a lot of responsibility. And if you need 
help, you always get it," says Earl Andrews. 
"Because your success is the company's 
success." 

Earl earned his B.A. in Political Science in 1967. Today, he's a Marketing Repre­sentative with IBM, involved in the planning selling and installation of data processing systems. 
Earl joined IBM because he felt the career paths were very clearly marked. "You don't have to be a technical genius to fit the job. You get the training. Then on-the-job experience. Before you know it, you're out on your own." 
Works with top management 
Earl works mainly with small companies­distribution houses, manufacturers, printers, warehouses, electrical supply houses and similar organizations. "I deal with top management," he says. "It gives me a lot of satisfaction to realize that I'm trained to know what this president or that vice-president is trying to learn. I help him 
solve his information handling problems." 
Earl's experience isn't unusual at IBM. There are many marketing and sales repre­sentatives who could tell you similar experiences. And they have many kinds of academic backgrounds: business, engi­neering, liberal arts, science. 
They not only market data processing equip­ment as Earl does, but also IBM office products and information records systems. Many of the more technically inclined are data processing Systems Engineers. 

Check with your placement office 
If you're interested in marketing at IBM, ask your placement office for more information. 
Or send a resume or letter to lrv Pfeiffer, IBM Corp., Dept. C, 100 So. Wacker Dr., Chicago, Ill. 60606. We'd like to hear from you even if you're headed for graduate school or military service. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 

THE OBSERVER 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper WILLIAM LUKING. Editor-in-Chief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Judicial Injustice 
The Campus Judicial Board, the subject of proposals, revisions, discussions, refer­endums and committees for at least two years, has finally begun functioning. The fact that so many Student Government officials as well as a handful of administra­tion officials had a part in the inception of the Board renders the blunder made by its creators even more inexcusable. 
The oversight becomes blatantly evident during the current trials being conducted by the Board against five CIA-Dow demon­strators. The charges were brought by senior Robert Narucki who claimed that the "passive resistance" of the demonstn't­tors caused the cancellation of CIA em­ployment interviews on campus and pre­vented him from making his own moral decision on the organization. 
Consequently five people were ordered 

to stand trial. Of the five, only one is in danger of being convicted, senior Marty McNamara. The question of jurisdiction arose in the case of Kathy Cecil, a St. Mary's student, whose case was finally dismissed by the SMC judicial board. A­nother of the accused is a Notre Dame alumnus, making prosecution by the Judi­cia! Board impossible. 
Although .the disposition of the latter two rases is perhaps laughable the situation in the remaining two most certainly is not. Jurisdiction will again be a problem in Associate Professor of English Peter Michelson's case but senior Don Hynes will be brought to trial. Both will be released, not only because they are not guilty, but also because they were falsely accused. In its first important cases the Campus Ju­dicial Board will face damaging embar­
rassment. 
Even a brief, preliminary investigation would have revealed that Hynes was not present during the time of the lie-in and never blocked the doorway at any time. Neither did Michelson block any doorways. In fact, the previous evening he argued against such a move. Several eyewitnesses will attest to the fact that he was not present either during the period Narucki spoke of. 
The point is, there is no provision for an investigation and indictment procedure in the Judicial Code. The only investigation in a trial occurs when the prosecution, a Board member, prepares his own case. The results of such a procedure, or lack of it, are that the Board is embarrassed and the accused is unjustly maligned by students and by teachers in Michelson's case. 
Perhaps some of the blame should be 
laid on J?ave Ryan, Chairman of the Judicial Board, who knows the charges against Hynes and Michelson are false. Apparently he does not see what is lacking in the Board's procedure or chooses to ignore it. In either case the credibility and prestige of the Board will be seriously undermined. 
As for Narucki, why did he not prose­
cute all of the more than 20 people who staged . the lie-in, why only those five and, more 1mportantl~, why were. two ~alsely accused. ~aruc~1 may constder htm~elf fortunate 1f _he 1s_ n_ot sued for defamation of character m a ctvll court. 
It beho~ves the _Cam_pus Judicial Board to correct 1ts overstght Immediately, and it ?eh?oves Ryan, _by the same sense of JUstice under which ~he Board was sup­posedly formed_, to discourage those who are about to bnng charges he knows to be false until such a correction can be ef­fected. 
Dining Hall Board 
On Monday the Student Life Council will consider a proposed board to govern the Notre Dame dining halls. The board would be unique in that it would be the first governing committee at Notre Dame ever to have a student majority. 
We strongly favor the proposea board. With five out of eight members students, students would be able to enact and supervise substantial change. 
The board will deal with a controversial subject. Dining Halls Director Mr. Bernard Mehall has of late cooperated in hiring a new chef for the food poison-plagued North Dining Hall, actively seeking a qualified sanitarian, and attempting to bring better quality and greater diversity to dining hall meals. There may be a choice of three salads now, but the question of bringing a qualified food service to the Notre Dame campus has not been 
considered. 
We urge the Student Life Council to approve and recommend the Board as it has been proposed by the SLC aining halls subcommittee. Our hope is that once created the board will move at once not only to remedy dining hall conditions but to press for full consideration of more important reforms such as bringing a food service to the campus. 
SM C Student Union? 
A Student Union at a University the size of Notre Dame is necessary. A Student Union at St. Mary's College is pretentious. It is another unnecessary and dangerous diversion of labor in Student Government's attempt to make itself meaningful. THE OBSERVER suggests that before Student government restructures itself in order to· bring relevant issues before the legislature, it first decide what these issues are. 
The proposed Student Union would separate the "service commissioners" such as Academic, Social, NSA and Student Development from the legislators proper. Academics and Student Development are the areas which will decide the future of St. Mary's. By casting them aside Student Government will reduce itself to a sounding board for the trivial. 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 1969 


IIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
The difference in time it takes to get twenty blocks uptown in New York on a bus or walking is negligible, but it was a cold day and I decided to spend for the luxury route. Two middle-aged school marms and their group of children were in front of me, and one was asking the bus driver if this vehicle went as far up town as eighty-second street and the driver said yes. Before he answered though, the lady had turned to her friend to talk and she missed his reply. Then she turned and again asked on the destination of the bus, and this time the children distracted her while the bus driver hollered yes and another woman on the bus discreetly queried her on why she had neglected to read the sign stupid. After several more variations on this routine the teacher gave up and left. 
The path being cleared, I climbed on board and asked the bus 
driver if the bus went up as far as eighty-second. With a kind smile 
he replied that he would take me anywhere that I wanted to go. I 
asked him what the fare was and discovered that he liked my looks, 
so for me only twenty cents. The driver had his lines, he had to keep 
his sanity driving a bus on Madison Avenue. All New Yorkers have 
got their lines. The city is enormous, l;lnd if you don't at least have a 
speaking part in the play you might be swallowed up, so no one 
misses a cue. 
I found a seat next to the typical old lady wearing the quart of 
My Sin. There are so many people in New York that most people 
begin seeming stereotyped. If you're a sensitive young artist you find 
yourself saying over and over I wish I had my camera, never realizing 
that if I saw some kid taking pictures in the midst of this crowd I'd 
be begging for the camera. 
Out of the noise and variety of the script I began to discern one 
continuous monologue. The remarks were caustic, and they were 
coming from an old lady across the aisle, but when I watched her I 
saw that she wasn't really talking to anyone. Her legs were covered 
with the arms of a sweater, a coarse overcoat was wrapped around 
her, and another sweater served as a scarf on her head. 
A boy got on the bus with two hockey sticks and a suitcase. 
Struggling under the load the old lady greeted him by asking him 
why he hadn't decided on a cab being at least eleven and old enough 
to work you bum. In the same breath she began her personal guide 
to shopping on that block of Madison Avenue, commenting on the 
quality of goods sold and the amount of money theived for them. 
She talked about anything and everything that she saw, but they 
were all objects in her world and it seemed that she was, and had 
been for a long while, her only audience. The city could have been 
ignoring her but the old lady wasn't about to let that happen. She 
was ignoring the city, and was having her say at the same time. 
Several other old women, more conservatively dressed and made 
up, were looking through their noses at this feisty character. One of 
them suddenly got up to leave remarking that she had missed her 
stop. This opening was too good for the old commentator, and she 
suggested that if the woman wasn't so defective in thinking ability 
she would know where the hell she was going, and in her first really 
outward act the old lady tripped the snob. The old lady had made a 
move in their world though, and she seemed to be caught out of 
bounds. 
The opposition turned their collective evil eyes on her and I was 
hoping for another charmer, but the old lady had left her security, 
and frightened she turned to look out the window. Looking into the 
crowd of people crossing the street she called off to one of them, 
Mark, how have you been, I haven't seen you in such a long while. 
She was smiling, and still talking to her friend Mark in the crowd 
that I joined, as I got off the bus. · 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 1969 THE OBSERVER 
Even With McQueen Bullitt Misses the Mark 
By MICHAEL PATRICK O'CONNOR 

San Francisco, like any city, is a dirty city, full of crime and violence. No matter how mamby-pamby and New Lefty you want to be about it, you need cops to run a dirty city, full of crime and violence. And Dragnet '68 is pretty much a washout. That is why Bullitt was made. 
The film is not a justification for police, although that may be what they had in mind. Police need good PR; Bullitt fills that bill nicely, being an efficiently made film that tells what needs telling (cops are people) in a dull plodding manner. Like the Italian poster says, kiss-kiss-bang-bang is what films arc all about and evidently so are cops. But Bullitt is a bore. 
Steve McQueen, well-beloved and of recent memory in motorcycle films, has the lead and docs as competent a job as could be done. The very badness of Bullitt makes one realize again how good he was in The Thomas Crown Affair by showing the diversity of his acting ability. 
The director, Peter Yates, is at fault. He plays around with good photographers and editors so that the hackneyed story about cops and gansters and politicians (0 mysterious men!) comes out even worse. He has made an honest job of pretty disgusting enterprise in indulgence; he has tried to make a good picture about nothing. 



11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111IIIIII:UIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Tom Ehrbar 

"The Impossible Dream" 
~ ,'\ '-\ 

It should throw a few scares into those Collegiate Seminar people. If only they knew the who I.e story. The story of one polite and mannerly student, who, tucked away in the dim shadows of his room frantically pouring through Don Quixote 
for  the  upcoming  exam,  was  whisked  
back  into  the  world  of  Chivalry  and  
knighthood.  

The student imagined himsclt a perfect knight, a doer of great deeds, destined to right the unrightable wrongs, to reach the unreachable star, to dream the impossible dream. As for the bit about "loving pure and chaste from afar" the student had other intentions. 
As the rosy fingered dawn awoke in the East... 
... the young chivalrous lad Donned his valicnt attire, including an off-campus football helmet and ventured out from his off-campus appartmcnt. He quickly unplugged his neat little golf cart and speedily raced for the Gold Dome, accompanied by his faithful companion Dogleg. 
Then began a typical day of knightly activity. An early morning Post Office Scooter \{aS magically transformed into a charging steed-Don lowered his lance and attacked. Si..ce the driver wasn't wearing his coat-of-mail he luckily c'scapcd serious injury, but the mail was strewn every-which-way. Meanwhile ou1 modern-day hero silently withdrew post haste. 
As he moved bravely onto the campus, Don encountered a dwarf blocking his path. lie pleasantly asked the dwarf to step aside-but the water hydrant remained steadfast. Don crossed himself in the street and proceeded to wildly charge. Soon, a torment of water spouted out (which rusted the knight's trusty head-gear). 
Reaching the Main Quad, Don sped over in the direction of Sorin Hall. The regal towers caught his eye, and as he glanced upwards he spied a 5'4" Polish maid, lethargically ridding her dust mop of dust. "Fortune is guiding affairs better than I could have wished" said Don, juanly (a Don Swifty ), "It is still morning and I have already battled two brave foes and now a fair maiden bids me to free her from a distressful plight." 
The maid, however;, was in no mood to be saved and she met Don's noble advance by cracking him soundly over the head, toppling him into the snow. 
With a gleam in his eye and a lump on his head, the knight wandered eastward, stumbling upon La Fortune Center where a student sen.ate meeting was presently in progress. There his imagination ran wild as he conjured up incredible illusions of what was actually taking place. He romantically pictured two powerful enemies posed against each other in conflict. One was substantially larger than the other, and sat alone at the round table glaring at his glib and well-dressed opponent. (There was not a Union between the two.) The antagonism had been apparently touched off by the refusal of one party to routinely stamp the royal seal ot approval for a brief crusade. 
Here, dear reader, I must break off this incident. The folly of such a vicious quarrel over such a slight matter is beyond the intelligence, yet alone the imagination, of all. 
As he turned to leave, Don's mood switched to a romantic one. He profoundly dwelt upon his ladies-in-waiting up at Barat, who in their splendcr far surpass their rivals at St. Mary's. SMC maidens arc fair, but only fair. 
Don returned home ... 
...as the rosy fingered dusk settled down in the West. 
As I said, it should throw a few scan's into those Collegiate Seminar people. 
The show Yates puts on is, primarily, simply too serious. The caricature of the ganster, wearing a thin white tie and a dark shirt and suit, is taken seriously, 
but Heaven only knows even Eliot Ness had trouble 
with that one. The caricature of the politician on the 
make, ruthless and undercutting and slimy, also 
wearing thin ties, is taken seriously. Robert Vaughn 
plays that role and his bad acting reassures one about 
the fundamental sameness of cosmic processes; he 
simply hasn't changed since UNCLE. 
In fact both McQueen and Vaughn seem to have 
trouble adjusting to this business of a film about 
reality, grisly as all that is. The fantasy backdrops of 
Thomas Crown and UNCLE are gone, but the stars 
remain the same. 
What is sad about seeing a bad film is that so often 
it isn't bad enough to even laugh at. Bu/litt, with 
deadly seriousness that keeps even the faintest wisp 
of humor out, is like that. For example, Robert 
Vaughn is so bad at bribery that he couldn't give 
away a petulia on a bet, but he is so serious about it 
that he is more pitied than censured. 
What does make the film worth while is the 
technical competence with which it was made. The 
interiors fit well with the exteriors and the 
documentary scenes of San Francisco (sorry, no 
hippies this year) blend in the stagey inside scenes 
serviceably. The whole thing was filmed in San 
Francisco and the beautiful city of the West Coast doesn't hold up, probably justifiably, under the scrutiny of Yates' cameramen. 
The most striking part of tire film is a chase sequence that comes out of nowhere and ends with all but hero dead (too much violence on the screen these days, tsk, tsk). The sequence is spectacular but then so are San Franciscan hills; it is fun to bump up and down hills with a camera and it is a relic( that vaudevillian qhases are gone with all the other camp ephemerality of the twenties. But with such a bad film, there has to be some relief . 

The Arts 
FILMS 
The Impossible Years (Avon; 7:15, 9:20) Bullitt (State; 1:15,3:15,5:15,7:15, 9:15) Hell-fighters (Granada; 1:30, 4:00, 6:30, 9:00) Camelot (Colfax; 2, 8) The Sound of Music (River Park; 5:15,8:15, Sat. matinee 2:15) 
* * * 
COFFEEHOUSES 
The Nth Degree (Social Center, basement of Le Mans); open 
Sat. evening (8-12) and Sun. evening (8-11 ). Performing Saturday are The Occasional Bluegrass Band, Jim Moran, Eddie Kurtz, and Bill Story, a Purdue student making his debut. Performing Sunday arc Paul Guernsey and The First Friday. Mass at II. 
Low,er Level (Badin's basement); open Fri. evening 9:30 -I :00. Performing are Olinda Douglass and The Occasional Bluegrass Band. 
Movies shown.  starring Hopolong Cassidy  and  W.C.  Fields  will  also  be  
*  *  *  
MISC.  

Fiddler on the Roof (Morris Civic; 8, Sat. matinee 2: 30) 
PAGE 6 THE OBSERVER FRIDAY, JANUARY 17,1969 


_______________________________:___ 

STARTS Fri. Jan. 24 
Daily· 4:30-7:00-9:15 Saturday Continues From NOON. Sunday from 2: 15 

Shuttle Service Cut 
THE WORLD TODAY 
The shuttle bus didn't run berger are: 1 )snowballing (of bus last night, as quite a few stud­and driver), 2) overcrowding, 3) 
Clark Releases Assassination Findings 
ents found out, and it won't run unscheduled stops, 4) obscene WASHINGTON (UPI) -The only outsiders to view top secretagain tonight, as many more will language, and 5) broken win­autopsy photographs have confirmed the Warren commissiondiscover (while snow falls and dows. 
findings that President John F. Kennedy was killed by two bulletstemperature dips). According to Knappenberger, fired from above and behind him, the Justice Department disclosed Temporary discontinuance of the bus will make its regular yesterday.
service was announced by Stud­trips during class hours today, Atty. Gen. Ramsey Clark, with the approval of the Kennedyent Union Services head AI and will resume the evening runs family, released the report of a four man panel of doctors heKnappenberger as a result of as scheduled Saturday evening. 
appointed to study the photographs, X-rays and clothing sealed inincreasing disturbances of the But it was also pointed out that the U.S. archives in 1966. It contains the first full inventory anddrivers and damages to the bus. if disturbances continue, the examination of the autopsy material from the body of theThe immediate cause of the evening runs will be permanently assassinated President. 
action was a second window halted. Knappenberger said, Because of the path of the two bullets, the Warren Commissionbreaking incident which occur­"this is a valuable service which concluded in a much disputed decision that the President was killedred Wednesday evening. should not be abused. When this by one man, Lee Harvey Olwald, Nov. 22, 1963 in Dallas. 
Knappenberger was informed is done it is the students who "Examination of the clothing and of the photographs and X-rays that the bus would not be able suffer. They not only lose the taken at autopsy revealed that President Kennedy was struck by twoto run by Brother Rogers of the transportation, but also a service bullets .fired from above and behind him, one of which traversed the maintenance department, who which they in part pay for." 
base of the neck on the right side without striking bone and thesaid that the evening driver re­
Economics Professor 

other of which entered the skull from behind and exploded its right fused to show up last night and Dr. William G. Bowen, prof. side," the physicians said in their report. 
tonight. The situation was then of economics at Princeton Clark released the report to General Sessions Judge Charlesfully explained to Knappen­University, will speak this Halleck in reply to the judge's order for the director of the National berger, who "fully agreed" with afternoon at 4:00 pm in Room Archives to appear in his court Friday. Halleck ordered the director, the driver and Brother Rogers. 
120, HayesOHealy Center. His Dr. James B. Rhoads, to explain why he should not cooperate with The reasons for discontin­talk is open to faculty and grad New Orleans Dist. Atty. James Garrison's investigation of an allegeduance as listed by Knappen-students. 

conspiracy in the assassination of President Kennedy. 

Acapu leo for Easter 
8 days offun in the sun 
$25 deposit final sign-ups $245 total Mon, Feb. 10 
6:30 in the Coke Bar 

Tues. Feb. 18 thru Sun, Feb 23 (Tues. performance sponsored by 
K. of C. and Masons) NOTRE DAME AND ST.MARY'S STUDENTS ~price tickets ($2.25-$1.75-$1.75) for following performances only: Wed. & Thurs. 8 p.m., Sat. 2 p.m., Sun. 6 p.m. 
Above tickets available only upon presentation of l.D. card at A.&C.C. Box Office which opens Jan. 27­Hours: 9 a.m.-5 p.m. (inc. noon hour) Mon.-Sat. 
Tickets available at regular prices ($4.50­$3.50-$2.50) for other performances: Fri-8 p.m. Sat. 8 p.m. Sun. 2 p.m. 
AT BOX OFFICE STARTING JAN. 27 OR USE MAIL COUPON BELOW 
Garrison has contended that the autopsy material would prove President Kennedy was shot by more than one man and that the fatal head wounds resulted from shots fired from in front of the President. 
The Justice Department asked the District of Columbia Court to refuse to compel Dr. Rhoads to attend the conspiracy trial of Clay Shaw, a New Orleans businessman Garrison has accused of masterminding an allege'd assassination plot. 

Racial Strife Rips Nation's Campuses 
(UPI) -The president of Swarhmore College died of a heart attack in his office yesterday as Negro students held control of the college admissions office for the eighth day. 
About 30 black students ended a sit in in the University of Pittsburgh's computer center after officials promised to speed action on their demands for two Negro holidays and an institute for black studies. 
Fire destroyed the student union building at Wilberforce University, a predominantly Negro school, where a student boycott has protested disciplinary procedures. 
From New England to California, campuses were troubled by demonstrations, most of them of a racial nature. 
Dr. Courtney Smith, 52, Swartmore president, succumbed shortly before he was to meet with a faculty committee which had been studying demands made by Negro demonstrators. 
The Quaker affiliated school near Philadelphia was thrown into near shock by the death of Smith Colleagues said he had been under a strain since about 25 blacks took over the admissions office to enforce demands for more Negro students, faculty and administrators and a role in policy making. 
A University of Pittsburgh spokesman said the Negro sit-inners left the computer center in the school's Cathedral of Learning "peacefully and without damage." 
Chancellor Wesley Posvar agreed that a director and assistant director for the proposed black studies institute would be appointed by June and provided with funds to carry on their work. 
He also agreed to ask the university senate to establish Jan. 15, birthday of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., as an all school holiday and to allow all black students and faculty to be excused Feb. 21, the anniversary of the death of Malcolm X. 
The agreement also provided no punitive action would be taken against the students who occupied the computer room. 
At Wilberforce University in Wilberforce, Ohio, President Dr. Rembrant Stokes said he did not believe there was a connection between the fire and dissention on campus. But authorities were investigating. 
The building was burned out and the fire loss was estimated at 
$90,000. The student boycott continued Thursday. 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
-
-Gip and mail to: ICE CAPADES, ATHLETIC & CONVOCATION CENTER •
-
-NOTRE DAME, IND. 46556 :-
-
-Enclosed is Checkc::J Money Order c::J in amount $.a...,__ Payable to Notre 
-
Dame Ice Capades Show for__regular priced tickets at $-_for Fri 8 p.m.t::J ­
-
Sat. 2 p.m.t=:J Sun 2 p.m.c::J Second ch~.-l..;e (day)'---(time)_____ •-
-
-
-Phone _________ ­Name -------------------­-Address ­-
State ________ -..
-City Zip.-------­
-
Plus "ROWAN &MARTIN AT THE MOVIES?
5 MUST ENCLOSE A STAMPED, SELF-ADDRESSED ENVELOPE :S 
endsJan.23
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111.. 

.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
--------------------------------~~--~~~~~~-------------------------------------------­
To Meet Monday Night 
Senate Set for Action on Hunter-Davey Bill 
The Student Senate will meet Monday night to take final act ion on the Controversial Hunter-Davey constitutional amendment bill. The Senate went through the first reading practice was originated in order to take Student Union out of the political arena. But Hunter feels that it is vital that the SBP be able to choose the person that he can work with best. 
Student Union President to Di­rector is not all that important. But I don't think the Student Body President should appoint the Student Union President. This puts the appointment too much into the realm of politics." 
Despite the opposition of the Student Union, Hunter is con­fident that the motion will pass. Hunter stated, "I don't think that Richard Rossie is complete­ly in favor of the bill, and I don't think that Rick Rembusch is completely in favor of the bill. But I think it is the best possible bill and will best serve the stu­dents." 

Tuesday, but action on the bill "The Student Union is a service 
was delayed until Monday bec­organization and in order to 
ause there is a required five-day serve well there must be max­




Bus Service to O'Hare Returns 
delay between first reading and imum co-ordirration between the debate on all constitutional Student Body President and the amendments. Student Union." According to one of its propo­The second change would re­

at Semester Break 
nents, Breen-Phillips Senator quire that the Student Union 
Richard Hunter, the bill provides Director, as executor of Student 
for two absolutely essential Union policy determined by the 
Leaving

changes in the Constitution, Board of Directors, appear be­dealing with the Student Union. fore the Senate every two weeks. The first of these changes The Board would also be re­
SUNDAY AND MONDAY
would allow the Student Body quired to meet every month. President, elected each spring, to Student Union President Rick 
FEBRUARY 2 AND 3 : BUSES LV. UNITED TERMINAL name the Student Union Direct­Rembusch commented, "I'm not 
BUILDING (LOWER LEVEL) or and the Student Government 100% in favor of the bill, but 
AT 8 PM. Treasurer for his Administration. I'm not completely against it. At present, the out-going Stu­The idea of having the board 
dent Union Board of Directors meet every month is an excellent 

Returning

appoints these officers. This idea. The change of title from 
MONDAY, TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY 

Six Advances Slated 
JANUARY 27,28 AND 29: BUSES LV. NOTRE DAME CIRCLE One of Notre Dame's loosely 31, Feb. 21, Mar. 7, Mar. 14, 
AT 4:30PM. AND ST. MARY'S HOLY organized "weekend" groups is Apr. 18, and. Apr. 25. If you are 
CROSS HALL AT 4: IS PM. finalizing plans for a series of six interested in being a part of one, get-togethers. Calling the please contact Mary Lee Carr, 
Cost

experience the "Advance," the ext. 4675, or Patrick Hayes, ext. groups move into the Old 1293; 
$4 ONEWAY $8 ROUND TRIP 
College building for three days p . 
for an assortment of discussions oet In America and whatever else seems At 8:00 this evening Dr. 
Samuel Haze, an alumnus of 
TICKETS ON SALE MONDAY-FRIDAY IN THE TRAVEL AGENCY, BADIN HALL.
appropriate.
These Advances will be similar Notre Dame and prof. of English 
at Duquesne University, will to those that were held last year speak on "The Poet in AS USUAL, NO REFUNDS!
under the direction of Fr. America." His talk will be given 
Burtchaell. The idea is to get in the Memorial Library 
students from SMC and NO Auditorium and is open to the 
ANOTHER SERVICE OF STUDENT UNION together informally, in an public. 
atmosphere more relaxed than ~------------1-irumiii@%0tiibiscDffiUD~i~~==~£72/TIG~CJ~~SjiT~~IT~~-1
conventional social gatherings. It 
Available in every hall on
gives them a chance to listen and 
campus
talk to various faculty members, the likes of Fr. Dunne, Fr. Simons, Sr. Rita Mercille, Sr. Sue Kelly, and Dr. and Mrs. 
Stewart Sandwich Service
Costello, discussing almost 
anything. In the past, 
conversations have focused on 
925 Blaine
interpretations of sin, or the 
232-2625
Eucharist, or on marriage. 
Advances will be held on Jan. 
Loules Dirty Dozen 

Open 
IN 

Forever 
Simeris Tonight! 
Engineering Auditorium 

Open to serve ND students with beer,
only 

liquor, & meals. 
75C 

You  must  be 21  Become a part of the better idea company in the following fields:  
Shown At  7:00 & 9:30  and  show  your  I.D.'s  
Design Engineering  Manufacturing Engineering  
Design  implementation-packaging-cost  manu­ Process  engineering-plant layout-tool design­ 
facturing feasibility-vendor consulting.  material handling-industrial engineering.  
Development Engineering  Plant Engineering  
Vehicle  systems  and  component  development­ Maintenance  control  and  scheduling-equipment  
engineering evaluation.  installation-stru'ctural changes-utility services.  
Test Engineering Program, facilities. and methods development­vehicle systems and component testing.  Quality Control In-process inspection and material testing-sup­plier quality control-machine capability-product  
Technical Computer  testing.  
.... Systems Engineering Hardware/software development-systems appli­cations and programming-internal consulting.  Production Control Production and procurement scheduling-parts and raw material procurement and control-operating  
Research Engineering  supplies and production materials.  
Applied engineering-human factors-vehicle. sys­tems. and component concepts.  Production Supervision  
Positions for the following disciplines:  
M.E., E.E .• I.E., Ch.E..  Met.E..  Cer.E., Comp. Sci ..  Math. I.M ..  either B.S. or M.S.  
Register with your placement office for a personal interview.  
We are an e  ual opportunity employer.  


~-------------------------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~------------------­

George Reynolds Theodis Lee Ken Spain Ollie Taylor 









Tartan Track Troublesome 
By MIKE P A VLIN 
When I competed on my high-school track team, I ran on a variety of surfaces: outdoors, the time-honored cinders or perhaps a special composition at the larger schools; indoors, wooden boards or a gummy tar surface which took hours to remove from my spikes. 
Hearing of the expensive new "Tarzan" surface track newly installed at the Convo, I hurried over to see what the ultimate in athletic modernity looked like. Underneath the North Dome, I found the track, laid out in a one-tenth mile oval. 

It has a sixty-yard straightaway for the sprints. 
Breath-taking! 
It has a multi-laned surface which is supposedly easy on the legs and stands up to "pin" spikes without tearing. 
Fantastic! 

It is unbanked. 
Huh? 

This phenomenon amazed me. After all, an unbanked indoor track defeats its own purpose, like a cast-iron life raft. The turns are so short that centirfugal force is enough to sling runners right into the arms of hockey goalie Dick Tomasoni. So I walked around and 
talked to the trackmen, the ones who must run on· the new surface every day. Their answers came quickly, willingly, and sometimes unprintably. To them, the new track is an example of administration monetary mismanagement. 
The runners say, first of all, that the surface is actually rather nice-if you run in a straight line. But the abscence of banked turns will slow down the times (although not that much) and give the man in the outside lane a great advantage. 
The real problem is blisters. The stickiness of the new surface, combined with the short turns, has wrecked havoc on the track squad. One runner explained the matter succinctly. When the foot hits the track, the foot moves inside the shoe but the shoe doesn't move at all. This causes rubbing, ergo blisters. 
Another gripe concerned the lay-out of the track surface. Perhaps you've noticed that while the running area is rough-surfaced, the rest is smooth. The "Tartan" material comes with rough and smooth sides on a roll. 
According to the runners, the original plan was to surface the entire area with the smooth 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
portion of the "Tartan" roll, in order to hold dances on the floor. How to run on the smooth portion apparantly didn't concern the powers-that-be. But Coach Alex Wilson put his spikes down and managed to wrangle at least a proper running surface.

By Terry O'Neil, sports editor 
The interior of the track oval •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• remains smooth-surfaced. One 
Lying Down On The Job 
Alas, "Moose" Krause's incredible basketball feat no longer is without peer. 
What incredible basketball feat? Ah, my dear freshmen, let ·me explain. There is a great deal of football trivia you must learn (to whit, combined weight of the Four Horsemen, Knute Rockne's birthplace, George Gipp's shoe size), but there is only one basketball item you must commit to memory-a story of the field goal "Moose" made while lying down on the job. 
The date was Feb. 19, 1932. Notre Dame, which was to finish the season 18-2, was riding an 1 I -game winning streak. Coach George Keogan, who never had a losing record in 20 years at Notre Dame, was nearing the end of his ninth campaign. 
ND's foe in Indianapolis that night was Butler University, one of the Midwest's biggest cage powers. Tony Hinkle, currently in his 40th year as Bulldog mentor, had another fine team. Some I 5,000 fans packed Butler Fieldhouse (which wasn't re-named Hinkle Fieldhouse until much later) for this game. 
But permit "Moose," a 6-3, 200-pound, All-America sophomore in 1932, to sink back in his big athletic director's chair, cross his legs, take a few deep puffs on that huge cigar and tell the story himself: 
"It was a very important game for both teams and it was close the whole way. With a few seconds remaining, we were behind by two points and had the ball. 
"There was a big scramble under our offensive basket and one of Butler's big guys knocked me down. Well, I was lying there, facing the hoop, with my head on the foul line and the ball just happened to come to me. 
"I knew darn well the gun was going to go off any second, so I threw it up while I was flat on my back. There was a maze of arms in front of me. In fact, I don't know how the ball got through, but it spikeman grinned in anticipation of high-heeled shoes on the floor, "They'll probably go right

Keogan was patting me on the back, saying, 'Way through.''
to shoot, Moose, way to go.' Then we went out and beat them in overtime (37-32 to be precise). Right now, huge portable It was a real big victory. They bought us an extra stands wait in the center of the steak on the way home and the student body was track, ready to be rolled up for 
very excited. the hockey games. When track "The funny part about it is that next day season opens, the stands will 
everybody was on the floor early, before practice have to be moved on and off. began, trying to duplicate the shot. We were lying Leaving the runners, I spoke all over the court and I was. explaining to my briefly to Coach Wilson. He 
teammates how I'd done it. admitted having trouble with 
"So Keogan came out and said, 'What's going on blisters but said that he wouldn't here?' I told him we were practicing the shot that be sure of all the problems until had won for us the night before. Keogan got mad. after the first meet. He also said 'What do you mean? Get up and get to work.' 'But that the runners were slowly coach,' I said, 'you told me last night it was such a "adjusting" to the new track. 
great shot."' The season opens later this 
Now, almost 37 years later, the scene has been month and perhaps things will re-enacted and "Moose" must make room in the end up right after all. If not, the Field-Goal-Made-While-Flat-On-Your-Back Hall of trackmen will just have to 
Fame. "adjust", although adjusting to This time the scene was University of Virginia blisters that must be run on Fieldhouse. It was Dec. 17, 1968. Virginia vs. every day doesn't sound very 
North Carolina. Senior Tar Heel Gerald Tuttle was pleasant. knocked to the floor during a first-half scrap under North Carolina's basket. 
Statistics

Unlike Krause, Tuttle was facing the opposite PLAYER G FG PCT.
basket as he lay on his back. There was no one to 
Whitmore 14 218-108 .458
receive a pass, so Tuttle flipped the ball blindly 
Arnzen 11 161-80 .498 over his shoulder and it banked straight through Carr 8 164-78 .476 the net. Jones 14 110-46 .418 83-41 .494
Like Krause and Keogan, Tuttle and his coach, Murphy 13 
Catlett 14 107-37 .346
Dean Smith, had comments about this one. "I 
O'Connell 14 45-19 .422
don't believe I've ever seen a shot quite like that in 
Pleick 12 39-21 .538 all my years in basketball," said Smith. "I've seen 
Sinnott 14 45-20 .444 some attempted when a player was lying on the Hinga 12 17-8 .471 floor, but I've never seen one made." Derrig 5 15-4 .266 Gallagher 9 5-3 .600
Tuttle's reaction: "I guess that's one I will 
Meehan 6 3-2 .666
remember all my life. Coach Smith probably will 
Ouinn 9 4-2 .500 
chew me out in the next practice, though. He'll 
Ziznewski 3 1-1 1.000 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 1969 


Cagers 

Await Illinois 

The Notre Dame basketball team, flashing a I 2-2 record, takes 10 days off for semester finals before returning to action Jan. 25 against powerful Illinois (11-1 ). 
That night, the Irish-Illini 
7:30 p.m. contest will be the first half of a Chicago Stadium doubleheader. UCLA faces Chicago Loyola in the 9 p.m. nightcap. 
Illinois is sparked by 6-8, 220-pound senior Dave Scholz, who is averaging 22.4 points and 
8.5 rebounds per game. Following Scholz in point production are 6~8 Greg Jackson 
(13.9 ppg). 6-3 Mike Price (I 1.0 ppg) and 6-3 Jodie Harrison 
(10.4 ppg). 

A comparison of common opponents gives Illinois a decided edge over ND. The Illini own a 105-66 victory over Butler and an 80-58 triumph over Minnesota. The Irish squeaked past Butler 76-73 and got by Minnesota 69-65. 
After a Jan. 30 breather at home against hapless Georgia Tech, the Irish journey to the Astrodome Feb. 1 for a battle with Houston ( 1 0-6). 
The disappointing Cougars have been beaten 65-64 by Southern Cal, 75-50 by Santa Clara, 97-84 by Illinois, 95-87 by Iowa, 86-76 by West Texas State and 7I-65 by Lamar Tech. 
Leading Houston scorers are 6-2 Ollie Taylor (I8.0 ppg), 6-9 Ken Spain (15.3 ppg), 6-4 George Reynolds (13.8 ppg) and 6-8 Theodis Lee (13.3 ppg). 
There is a slim chance that this game will have the second largest attendance in college basketball history. The largest, of course, was the 52,693 which saw Houston whip UCLA 71-69 last Jan. 20. 
The second largest was 22,822 at Chicago Stadium Feb. 23, 1946 for a doubleheader which included a Notre Dame-Loyola encounter. 
Arnzen, \thitmore Assault Records 
CAREER SCORING *Tom Hawkins 1820 Bob Arnzen I434 Bob Whitmore I 36 I FIELD GOAL PERCENTAGE *Larry Sheffield 499-1140 .438 Arnzen 574-1176 .488 Whitmore 525-1096 .4 79 FREE THROw PERCENT AGE *John McCarthy 278-357 .779 Arnzen 286-355 .806 
*denotes all-time record holder 
FT PCT. REB AVG. TP AVG. 57-42 .737 144 10.3 242 17.3 44-33 .750 124 11.3 193 17.5 40-30 .751J 37 4.6 186 23.3 31-18 .581 99 7.1 110 7.8 16-13 .812 34 2.6 95 7.3 31-12 .387 100 7.1 86 6.1 46-40 .869 19 1.3 78 5.6 16-12 .750 37 3.1 54 4.5 17-12 .706 29 2.1 52 3.7 16-10 .625 10 0.0 26 2.2 10-5 .500 7 1.4 13 2.6 
5-2 .400 4 0.4 8 0.9 2-2 1.000 3 0.5 6 1.0 1-0 .000 6 0.6 4 0.4 1-0 .000 2 0.7 2 0.7 
did and it went in. tell me that it wasn't a very good percentage N.D. TOT 14 1017-462 .454 333-231 .693 747 53.4 1155 82.5 "Well, I went back to the bench and George shot." OPP. TOT 14 985-396 .402 324-217 .668 606 43.3 1009 72.1 




