For free female 
Young Democrat split 
By Jeanne Sweeney the National Young Democrats, 
The Young Democrats of St. and my suggestion is that they Mary's College ratified a new work separately, maintaining constitution last night, estab-their own identity. The Demo­lishing themselves as a separate cratic Party has been the victim entity from the Notre Dame of enough splits without one Young Democrats. between Notre Dame and St. 
President of the St. Mary's Mary's." campus club, sophomore Carol Handley, who worked in the Handley, states that "as part of Kennedy primary a and was the the Notre Dame Club, the girls coordinator of Senator Bayh's 

E OBSERVER 

Servin~: the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
VOL. Ill, NO. 125 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30, 1969 
were only given menial tasks campaign at SMC feels that wcllhelowthcirmcnt~lity." "men. especially in politics. Open board meet1•ng voted
Previously •here was no think they arc superior, hut we Young Democrats organization want women to become a more at SMC and girls could only viable force." By Oiff Wintrode bpu. rposes besides constderirtg this morning to ask his permission choose to join the NO Dcmocra-In order to finalize this new The Christian Radicals and 111 concerned with opening up for McKenna to present the reso­tic Club if they wanted to parti-cstablsihment, permanent offi-the Senate concurrently passed a the Trustees meetings. Also on Jut.io.n be.fore the Board.. If per­
cipate. ccrs were elected. tl '!< d' · f f 1
.on on ··allJ'ng for· the Je agenua was a Jscusston o mJSston Js not or.t Jcommg, Fa·resolutl
Now with their new constitu-Handley was persuaded to a·· ~ h t if t' t t k · 
. ~-opening of the Board of Trustees w a any ac ton o a e m ther Hesburgh will. be asked to 
t ion the St. Mary's Young cept the noJJll·natJ'on of pres,· res n e to the arnva · I on cam-t h 1 b f
-meeting to "any member of the po s presen t e reso utwn e ore the 
Democrats insist they will co dent,· although she may be pus of for1ner Secretary of De B d
university community" last -oar · 
operate with their Notre Dame forced to resign at the end of the night. fense Robert Me Namara and If permission is granted, counterparts. hut will want to first semester when she will F d D d . k S d plans for the giant "northern which is expected, McKenna will remain autonomous in order to spend a semester at Dunbarton rc e nc ' tu ent Body Indiana love-in" at Potowatto­
Vice-President, cited the need exprel>S the following rationale further the woman's position in College on the St. Mary's--Dun-for such a resolution when ad-mi Park that same day. for the bill, "The Board has very politics. barton exchange. She was elec-dressing the Christian Radicals, The group decided not to take little contact with students and I larry Lapham, chairman of ted unanimously. "They don't know what is going any united action against the this would provide an opportuni­the Notre Dame Youno Demo-The other elected officers, all presence of Me Namara on cam t f th t k h t
" on. They don't know what we -Y or em o now w a stu­
crats, said, "It is my undcrstan-sophomores, arc Mary Clark, pus The consensus dect'si'on was d t th' k' d ·
think. We don't talk to them, · en s are m mg an VIce versa. 
ding that St. Mary's has been Vice President, Ann Heiny, rea cited on the bast's that any H · d th ·
they don't talk to us." e v1ewe e pnmary pur­independent of Notre Dame Treasurer, and Marilyn Becker, The Christian Radicals concerted protest would only pose of the meeting as being, "A through their own charter with Secretary. meeting was called for two o.thcr serve to divert the group's atten-hearing session to establish a
Mc Ken n a eXpIa in 5 separati0 n !~oe~; ~!!~~i~~c:do~n~~~i~~nzo~~ ~~:~~~~ue with the Board of Trus­t he Trustees meetings. The group also arrived at the Student Body President Philip these areas. The letter reasoned that a The particulars for the "mass same basic purpose for the McKenna issued a letter to the "Black students were polled black concentration could be get together" 'were revealed as meeting. It was widely felt that Student Body today in which he previous to the presentation of beneficial for the white students being from 3 to 7 on the after-it was more important to "get a explained the recent decision to this proposal by the Afro-as well as the black students. It noon of Thursday, May I. It was foot in the door of the power set aside rooms in Alumni, Dil­American Society as to their said that as a result of such a duly noted that not only is structure" than to concentrate 
lon and Walsh Halls for Hack desire to live within such a plan the white student would be Thursday May Day, but it is also on specific issues. 
students. plan," he said. "Those blacks able to interact not only with founder's day for the interna-The probable lack of student not desiring these accomoda-one black student, but with a tiona! worker's revolution. support for any issue or any !ions will select rooms in other black community. Guests include Sister Joanne direct action that would be dorms according to the regular Malone, of Dow Chemical fame taken if the Board refuses to 
McKenna termed the usual h 1 d h
proccd ure." w o e a c arge that burned hold open hearings coupled with McKenna said further in his one-to-one relationship between Dow's files and possibly repre-the fear of a backlash movement black and white students as "un-· f h p
letter that the plan did not result sentat1ves rom t e rogressive in case of any force produced a in "the displacement of any realistic," and said, "One can Labor Party, Socialist Party, and sentiment of no decision on present resident from these only appreciate the situation of Students for a Democratic what to do if the Board says no dorms." the black man today when he Society. was made. 
sees him in the context of a Th b · bl oun
As to why he feels such a plan e as1c pro em cnc -Away from the confusion of beneficial for the Notre Dame commun~ty that is natural to tered by the Christian Radicals the meeting, Chuck Leoni that black man." t d d h t · le
community, McKenna said "The ccn ere aroun ow 0 Imp -stated, "I don't think we want black man today is undergoing a McKenna concluded his letter mcnt the power of the bill in to use any force tactics." We're deep search for his identity-an with hopes that the new plan time for Friday's meeting of the looking in terms of the end identity with its roots in a black would lead to an "integration on Board of Trustees. It was empha-product, what we want to ac­culture and not solely in a white a whole new basis-a basis that sized that the Board possessed complish. Initially I would shy
SBP Phil McKenna 

value system. The black st udcnt has respect for two different no knowledge of the bill. away from a show of force. The In his letter, McKenna needs to relate to others of his cultures, which combines them Incumbent with the Board's ultimate thing we want is an stressed the fact that the new 
own culture, to discuss those in a humanistic concern, where la('k of knowledge was the neces-open meetin)!;."
concentration plan docs not things peculiar to his culture." there is a respect for difference, sity to present the bill at the Both McKenna and Leoni extend to complete floors or 
McKenna continued in his let-and a goal to eradicate our soci" ~wrt of the agenda. The method agree that a compromise where-sections, but rather to "a certain 
tcr that the black student must ety of the cancerous racism." He decided upon to accomplish this by part of the meetings would amount of rooms on one floor 
not feel that he is being "assim-called upon the Notre Dame task was a steering committee. be open to the students would of each of these dorms being 
ilatcd into a white value sys-Community to "understand the The steering committee mem-be acceptable. However, Leoni, reserved for black students." 
tcm," a system which McKenna black man, understand yourself, hers include John Krfmiak, said that a "channel of com-McKenna stated in his letter 
says "has done much to deprive see the differences, see the simi-Chuck Leoni, Fred Dedrick, and munication should be open at that no present black student or 
his people of their own heritage laritics," and as a "microcasm of Phil McKenna, who was en-every meeting and that black incoming fresh man will be 
and culture, to say nothing of society," to stand as an example powered by the Senate to pre.-there should always be a student compelled to live within one of 
his most basic human ri)!;hts." to that society. sent the resolution. representative at all times at The committee will meet with the meetings, who would report Father Hesburgh on Thursday back what transpired "
Mardi Gras deficit over $2000 
Defense Dep't hints at possible 
ably over the past year. lie also McKenna said, "We will make all Student Body Treasurer John stated that certain bills, which attempts to give the Conference compromise in ROTC debate Coughlin announced in his finan­were left over from last year's for International I.ay Apostolate 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The Department would be willing to
cial report to the Student Senate Mardi Gras, had to be paid from the $5,000 we had promised Pentagon said yesterday it was make these compromises at col­last night, that this year's Mardi this year's funds. them from the Mardi Gras rec­willing to make some compro­leges where ROTC is consideredGras operated at a loss of from Student Body President Phil eipts." continued p. 2 mises to ease collegiate objec­objectionable:two to three thousand dollars. 
tions to ROTC programs, but Shift some of the militaryCoughlin contrasted this sum 
Defense Secretary Melvin R. training from the campus towith last year's acquisition of Laird said it would not allow the summer encampments at mili­over fifteen thousand dollars for program to be "degraded in any tary reservations.
Mardi (;ras. This year's Mardi 

way." Employ a greater number ofGras Chairman Jim Golomb gave The Defense Department civilian instructors-as opposedseveral reasons for this finam:ial 
announced its willingness to to military officers-in ROTCloss. lie stated that the raffle make the changes after Roger T. courses.
sales fell from last years total of Kelley, assistant defense secre­Eliminate some technical$29,693 to $17,148. "The stay 

tary for manpower, conferred courses and make others
hall systl'm," he said "promoted 
more 
with officials at Princeton, general by removing the empha­apathy in the sale of the raffle Brown, Yale, Cornell, Dart­sis on military matters.
hooks. It was therefore a major mouth, Tulane, Stanford and However, Laird said, "We arcdctcrminent in the loss of over 

Brigham Young universities. lie not prepared to sec the ROTC$12,000." 
met with them in an effort to program degraded in any way."
c;olomh a'•o gave two other 

Former Student Uniorr President Rick Rembusch (at end campus demonstrations "We believe," he added, "the 
reasons for this deficit. lie stated 

Podium) explains the reported deficit of over $2,000 in against ROTC programs trig­ROTC programs arc better than
that the prices of the materials 

the Mardi Gras budget for this year. 1969 Mardi Gras gered by opposition to the Viet­ever before. We hope to contin­
used for booths and skilled help, 

Chairman James Golomb is at the far left. The Senate is nam War. ue to work with all schools
such as sheriff deputies and elec­tricians, have gone up consider-continuing its investigation. Kelley said the Defense affiliated with ROTC." 


WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30, 1969
THE OBSERVER
PAGE 2 

SU to sponsor leadership conf. 
Text of McKenna letter 
April 30, 1969

opening next September in CEC 
Fellow Students: 

A joint Notre Dame and St. Mary's Leadership Conference to be held September 9-11 in the Continuing Education Center is now being formulated by the Notre Dame Student Union. Invitation to the conference will be based on the student's actual and potential campus leadership and influence. 
Joseph J. Fitzsimmons, Jr., Co-chairman of the conference, said, "We feel the potential this 72 hour, concentrated, team­work experience holds can only result in a great step forward in communicating with fellow students, faculty, and adminis­
tration for those attending." 

Fitzsimmons said the format Pat McDunough, co-chairman of the conference will be mod­of the Leadership Conference, eled after a format developed by said, "It is evident that the the National Leadership Insti­events of the past few years have 
tute, a non-profit organization shown the need for such a con­located in Austin, Texas which is 
ference." The conference will geared to the training of indus­stress rector and prefect com­trial managers. It involves "sen­
munication with the student. sitivity training, and the use of The Notre Dame Leadership some rather unconventional and 
Conference has been formulated dramatic techniques of group with the idea that leaders are not dynamics," Filzsimmons said. I 
born but can be developed. The think students will find it a 
National Leadership Institute in "totally absorbing object lessor 
conjunction with llimtle Oil has in human psychology." 
sponsored similar conferences, 
receiving enthusiastic response 
A similar program of training from both the students and col­for rectors and prefects will be lege officials, and requests for coordinated with the Notre repeats in the areas in which Dame Leadership Conference. they have been held. 
Letters to the Editor 
Mentality of grossness Editor: Mrs. De Celles' letter of April 28 was written at a most perti­nent time, taken in the context of the recent Observer series on co-education. The students' actions to which see objects (i.e., remarks to her 6-and 9-year-old daughters) have nothing to do with Notre Dame being the school of Our Lady. They really 
,------------------, academic) but also from the (forCONTOURAr" lack of a better word) "social" 


with Diamonds of 


community leads to the Notre 
Dame mentality of grossness Academic speakers Ultimate beauty 
th th t t d
ra er an respec owar Editor: young women. One might also 
I do hope that Dr. Hugh
add to this the fact that the "schonfield's method of an­University itself more often than 
swering questions at his recent
not emphasizes the body (bothmilitarily and athletically), lecture does not go unchal­
rather than the mind, in direct lenged. 
d. · h f As most of us know, Dr.
contra tchon to t e concept o 

Josephine Ford is a well­
university. The end result can 
recognized New Testament andonly be the Notre Dame "man",
and I apologize to Mrs. De Rabbinics scholar, whose work is Celles, not for what the students published in the best learned r---:---;;;;----;--------------.·Tournals. She can hardly be dis-
Her fondest dreams come trt.e when you choose a Contoura diamond bridal set. 
by~mbe~ 

Diamond lmportCo 
~I HE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS 
-WHOLESALE­SEEN BY APPOINTMENT 2927'1' MISHAWAKA AVE. 
PHONE 287·1427 

have nothing io do with the 6th are, but rather for what Notre and Yth commandments, either. Dame is. Neitha do they in any way Paul F. Jones involve the concept of Christian 254 Morrissey love, to which she also refers. Such student actions are a conse­quence, simply, of what Notre Dame is-a school for men. The fact that women are generally excluded not only from the academic community (if indeed such a community can be called 
&E AU)(' missed by recommending that she read a rather second-rate ACZT~ book. In my opinion, speakers at an
a1

U. e A L L academic institution should deal with academic questions in an 
(} a.... J academic way! Why else arc they ~ invited? 
J.G. Kelly 

A great deal of controversy has arisen over the proposal for a limited concentration of black students in the halls. I feel that most of the misunderstanding that has arisen concerning this action can be classified by explaining the rationale that led to the acceptance of the proposal by Alumni, Dillon and Walsh Halls. Certain pertinent facts need to be alluded to initially: 
1) the plan does not involve segregated floors or sections. What the Plan does provide for is a certain amount of rooms on one floor of each of these fordorms being reserved for black students. 
2) no present black student or incoming black student (fresh man) wii I be forced to live within the confines of these areas. Black students were polled previous to the presentation of this proposal by the Afro­American Society as to their desire to live within such a plan. Those blacks not desiring these accomodations will select rooms in other dorms according to the regular procedure. Incoming black freshmen therefore, will be allowed to choose the living situt"tion most desirable to them. 
3) the plan did·;ot cause the displacement of any present resident from these dorms. 
Why I felt the above was necessary: 

The black man today is undergoing a deep search for his identity--an identity with its roots in a black culture and not solely in a white value system. The black student needs to relate to others of his own culture, to discuss those things peculiar to his culture. Living with other blacks i5 necessary for the development of a black student today. He must feel that he is not being assimilated into a white value system---a value system that has done much to deprive his people of their own heritage and culture, to say nothing of his most basic human rights. 
A black concentration is not only necessary for the balck students,~it also provides an educational experience for white students. In the past a white student has never been able to interact with a black community, his interaction with blacks has only been with one isolated black. This is not realistic. Qne can only appreciate the situation of thee black man today when he sees him in the context of a community that is natural to that black man. 
The possibilities for growth under this plan are enormous. It can be an important link in the development of both blacks and whites, and this in their ultimate development together. My hope is that it will eventually lead to realistic integration--~-not integration on the white man's terms­which has been the only way black and white have been able to integrate in the past. But rather integration on a whole new basis---~~-a basis that has respect for two different cultures, which combines them in a humanistic concern, where there is a respect for difference, and a goal to eradicate our society of the cancerous racism. This is an experiment. It has never been tried in the past ----it can be an enriching experience if you are willing to make it so. We cannot afford assimilation any longer--·understand the black man, understand yourself, see the difference, see the similarities. Notre Dame, as a microcosm of society, has the opportunity to set an 
~xample for society. 
Sincerely yours, 
Philip McKenna Student Body President 1969-70 
Marathon tears 


Senate 

Editor: Want to compliment you on continued .from p. 1 your article in the April 25th 
He stated, however, that if the 
Observer about the ND student Senate could not borrow this 

who ran in the Boston Mara­money from some source, theython. It brought tears to my would not be able to make the 

eyes. It demonstrated so force­contribution. "If we did give

fully the simple truth of man's CILA the money, next year's"humanity" to man. And how Mardi Gras would tic working at courage, in any form, is still a $5,000 deficit." 

admired and is important to all The Senate established a com­

men even in this "chaotic" age. 

mittee to look into procecdual changes for next year's MardiIt was beautifully told by Joe Gras.
Branciforte and beautifully writ­Other action in last night'sten by Mike Pavlin. 

Senate meeting was the passingThank you. 
of a bill requesting that the University Board of TrusteesJoanna Timmons meeting be open to members of 
-just an employee. 

the University community. The 
Senate also passed a hili-recom­mending that University officials cease th.,eir proceedure of noti­
'rhl.Uuse JYt-stoltj~ · 
I 
fying local draft boards about changes in the academic status
Craftsmen in Opt1cs 1 
of any student, unless requested. 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSES
•ATUI20AY 
The Observer is published daily


MAY~· q.w 
THE SHER LAND BLDG.-·132 S. MICHIGAN ST.--CEntral 2·146(1 
during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage 


Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.--Chicaqo 
paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 
..


Pick up Petitions 
8£ A SWINGER ,
• 


SLC ELECTIONS 
and own your own Polaroid ­It's easy, just pick up your own 
Starting Thursday, May 1, 6 p.m. 
SCRIPTO Pen at the BOOKSTORE 
Petitions must be turned in no later than 
and receive a luc'ky number 
May 4, 11 a.m. 
from the cashier. 
Campaign: May 4, noon to May 8, 2 a.m. Election: May ~
The next drawing wi11 be he1d May 9! 
--------------------------'---~----­


Sister Marie Augusta Neal,

that opponents of the President's Antiballistic Missile program 
S.N.D., of Emmanuel College,

sought a weak and disarmed America. After Ford made his accusation, Deputy Defense Secretary David 
Boston; Dean 1erald Brauer of 

STUDENT UNION 
S. Packard-facing stiff Congressional opposition to the AB M the University of Chicago Divin­program hinted at a willingness to slow down spending on the ity School; Rev. Robert L. multibillion dollar defense system. Faricy, S.J ., Catholic University 
Packard met for two and a half hours with Republican senators, of America, Washington, D.C.; 

SERVICES 
then told newsmen that a~:quisition of I 0 of the 12 proposed ABM 
-----,
sites "could he foregone for a year or two. I don't think the national 

SAVE MONEY

security would be jeopardized." lie estimated only a fraction of the $900 million sought to get the 

COMMISSION 
system started this year would be saved by the delay. Most of the 
money is to be used for radar and missiles for the two sites-in North 
Dakota and Montana-whose acquisition would not be postponed. 
Is now accepting applications for
~



~n on 
New pocket-size travel book "London Discovery 1969" fea­tures money-saving discount 

the following concessions: Donuts,
WINNING NUMBER 
certificates at places where Londoners themselves eat, shop, have fun. Save on res­taurants, clothes, pipes, lealher 

Flowers, Magazines, Photography,
goods, car rental, theater tickets, etc. Book saves you many times its price. Send $4.95 (ppd) to: 

*** 006851 *** 
Wielgor 

, Cakes
LONDON DISCOVERY, INC. 
DEPT. CN • P.O. BOX 2028 
DETROIT. MICH. 48231


5210 Mayfair 
Please send copy(ies) ol "London Discovery 1969." $4.95 per copy enclosed. 

Reminder: 
NAME

Come to the Bookstore with 
All dHh~ mu~t n·gi~tt·r by May 1-pi<:k up
ADDRESS

your stub and collect your 
regi~tration form Rm 4E LaFortue. 3:15-5:00
CITY
Polaroid Camera 
._ STATE ZIP 

All organizational cars must he applit.•d for
any day between 9 and 5. 
at this time 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30, 1969 
; 

THE WORLD TODAY 
, 

Three seek to succeed DeGaulle 
PARIS (UPI) -Fonner Premier George l'ompidou, who favors rebuilding France's historic partnership with America, won unanimous nomination yesterday as Gaullist party candidate to succeed Charles de Gaulle as president. Veteran Socialist contender Gaston Dcferrc also announced he would run. 
Far to the right, a third candidate loomed. Georges Bidault, 69, De Gaulle's foreign minsistcr in the postwar years before he went into exile as a bitter opponent of independence for Algeria, told a news conference he, too, might run. But he was written off as no serious threat to I'om pidou. 
Centrist politicians conferred, seeking a middle of the road candidate, while the Communist party stepped up pressure on other leftist groups to agree on a joint candidate. Deferre has traditionally been opposed to having the Communists take part in a left center coalition. 
Campus disruptions spread to South 
By United.Press International 
lleavily armed black students Tuesday seized a second building at Voorhees College in Denmark, S.C. Negroes took over the science building, at Belmont Abbey College in North Carolina. 
A band of Harvard University and Radcliffe College students marched on a Cambridge, Mass., courthouse where 174 young persons were on trial for seizing the Harvard Administration Building earlier this month. 
Tulane University security police dragged more than a score of anti-ROTC donstrators off the campus drill field at New Orleans and handcuffed them to a fire hydrant. 
The black militants who took over the Voorhees College Administration Building at noon Monday spread early Tuesday to 
the  adjacent  science  building.  Rifles  and  shotguns  poked  from  
building windows.  
The  administration  closed  the  Negro  school  indefinitely. State  

officials formed National Guard and highway patrol forces at an armory in nearby Bamberg, S.C., but said they would not be ordered onto the campus unless Voorhees officials asked for help. 
A spokesman for the militants shouting through a bullhorn warned, "We will usc the guns if they bring white folks with guns on the campus." 
Nationwide violence; Guard to Cairo 
By United Press International 
The Illinois National Guard yesterday was ordered into Cairo, an historic Illinois river town racked by three nights of gunfire and fire bombing. Police in other cities were on the alert for new outbreaks 
of racial violence. 
San Francisco was wary following a flareup between a police tactical squad and members of the Black Panthers party Monday. llundrcds of police moved into the city Fillmore district to put down that disturbance. 
At Winston Salem, N.C., police hoped to keep the lid on a Negro distrid which·has undergone gunfire, fires and brick throwing. The situation was much the same at Linden, N.J., where helmeted police chased more than 200 black youths from the business section Monday night. 
GOP leader disparages ABM critics 
WASHINGTON (UPI) House Republican leader Gerald R. Ford emerged from a meeting with President Nixon yesterday and charged 
__ 
PAGE 3
. ___THE OBSERV£1(_ . 
-------·--­


PBK keys awarded to 27 
For the second year, a group of Notre Dame st udcnts has been honored with the Phi-Beta-Kappa award. Twenty­six seniors and one junior have recently been chosen to receive this national honor. The honor is meant to recognize academic ex­cellence in a liberal education, and over-all participation and involvement in non-academic affairs. Nineteen of the students chosen are currently studying in the Arts and Letters program, while eight students are studying in the area of Science. 
The practice of honoring stu­dents with the Phi-Beta-Kappa award began in 1776 at the 
College of William and Mary. Smce then, the tradition has e':panded to numerous colleges and universities. Notre Dame re­ceived a charter into the national society last year. 
Thomas Fehlner, Assoc. Prof. of Chemistry and Secretary of 

Author to argue role of modern nun 
Leon Joseph Cardinal Suen­ens, the acknowledged leader in the current renewal of Catholic women's religious orders, and author of the controversial "Nun in the Modern World," will par­ticipate in a Nun in the World 

Debate  to  be  held  at  Saint  
Mary's College in June .  
Over  500 sisters  and  repre­ 

sentative lay leaders are ex­pected to participate in three days of panel discussions and hc<V" a series of major addresses on the campus from June I I to 14. 

Cardinal Suenens will address the conference on June 13 and is expected to enter into debate on the role of the "new nun" in ·discussions throughout the symposium. 
The Belgian theologian, who traveled throug~out the U.S. in 1963 as a chief interpreter of the Pope John XXIII encyclical P a cern in ' Terris, stimulated much interest toward changing the patterns of women's reli­gious vocations following the publication of his widely-read book. 
In addition to the cardinal, major addresses will be given by the Notre Dame chapter, said that the award is for "recogni­tion of a certain type of achieve­

ment." He added that though there is a grade point require­ment, it's "not too restrictive." 
Students awarded the Phi-Bela-Kappa award are chosen by the members of the national society who are present­ly on the faculty and who were on the faculty when the charter was granted. 
The students chosen are: 

Patrick Ayer, John F. Beary, Roy N. Bohlander, Ronald P. Chandonia, William J. Cridland, William J. Cullen, John F. Davis, Albert J. Filice, Eugene R. Hammond. 
John P. Hickey, Michael Hollerich, Michael Lubozynski; Jeffrey J. Lunstead, Mark J. Lyons, William M. Murphy, Theodore J. Nowacki, James A. Pellegrin, Jeffrey R. Powell. 
Neal Thomas Ruggie, Michael 

Rev. Martin E. Marty, also of the University of Chicago Divinity School and Mother Thomas Acq uinas, Superior General of the Sisters of Mercy, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Following the major addr'!s­ses, the participants will form small discussion groups where further discussion of the topi-::s will be developed. 
Panel discussion leaders will consist of Superiors General of many major orders in the U.S. as well as Most Rev. Joseph M. Breitenbeck, Auxiliary Bishop of Detroit. 
The talk by Cardinal Suenens is the first such address given before a U.S. audience of nuns since the publication of his book. 
An accomplished author, the Cardinal's books range from an analysis of the explosive Chu­rch-State issue in Belgium ("The School Question") to a delinea­tion of the Church's missionary role ("The Church in Mission Lands"). 
lie was enthroned as Arch­bishop of Brussels in 1962 as 
D. Schaffer, Thomas J. Scorza, 
William C. Thieman, David C. Tiemeier, Robert J. Ursano, Juan A. Vincensini, James P. Whalen, Robert L. Woodrick. 

Three ~et scholarships 
. ~ 
Two seniors and a graduate 

student  in  the  University  of  
Notre  Dame's  department  of  
mechanical  engineering have  re­ 

ceived scholarships in national competitiOn. 
I he students and their awards are: Steven J. Kast, a senior from Middleton, Ohio, a Nation­al Science Foundation schola­rship and an Atomic Energy Commission nuclear science and engineering 1ward; Francis P. Cardilc, a senior from Syosset, N.Y., an AEC nuclear science and engineering award; and John 
C. Zink, Birmingham, Mich., a doctoral student, Office of Civil Defense scholarship. 
one of the 10 new cardinals proclaimed by Pope John XXIII. He has been considered a leader in the drive to give laymen a more active role in the Church. 
Avon Art Theater 
FRIDAY 
• •• • • .r .....\.-...f'\._..(" ... ~ ...... .~ 

=· Bantbe : 
~. "Pill"! •.: 
• """'-.c'-'i;;'lo;;:''~"'~" 

THE OBSERVER.
PAGE 4 ----------·-------____ -------~NESDAY, APRIL 30, 1969 


Toward a united cultural front 
By David Kahn 

The struggle for liberation by the black community within America, which is fast becoming a war, gave birth to the cry in the white community for freedom. (Eldridge Cleaver for President 
Placard, Summer, 1968) 

It is the April 25 teach-in on the main quad, and nothing offends my modest, white-radicalwnsciousness more than to witness Phil McKenna with a gust of sober liberality ask, as a point of discussion, why Notre Dame cannot tolerate the Black 
separatist ideal. 

Separatism as a concept is an ambiguous, ingenuous term, and it is misrepresentational if not anachronistic for McKenna to suggest that separatism is a monolithic or even a pre-eminent trend in the black movement. The Black Panther Party, indeed the revolutionary vanguard of the black struggle, has stated clearly that the black movement cannot survive in isolation. A proletariat Panther says it 
loud: 

The white le_ader who advocates dissociation o_( his movement from the liberation struggle in the black community, is as big an asshole, as the black militant who derides the whites who take up picket signs to demonstrate against police brutality in the ghetto . .. get rid of this type of mad self-flagellating confusion. (Summer Placard, 1968) 
The conduits between the white and black movement must be maintained, for · " white-radical consciousness has received most of its content and impetus from the black movement. The ascendency of the black intellect has exhumed at last the painful shortcomings of white existence. A Panther at Notre Dame could instantaneously distinguish the blatant male supremacy, the inflated elitism of merit, the condescen-ding power structure, and the moneyed NEGRO. No instinct, no mentality can criticize quite so well the white status quo as does the oppressed black, for he has been personally scarred by the contradictions of white establishment life-styles. Thus, to know ourselves as white people, we depend upon 
revolutionary that serves to teach America of the practicality of communal love. Atthe black critic. 
present, the Chicago Panthers' main project is to establish a breakfast program forIt is not my intention to deny the viability of a black sub-economy, or condemn black ghetto school children. The Panther guerrilla dons an apron, and at any assertion of black autonomy. Blacks at all cost must sustain their culture. 
five thirty in the morning serves a hot breakfast to a starving brother. SoulHistory has demonstrated, as in the case of the Indians and the Spanish, that Brother. Soul Brothn Docs a white man ~:all a fdlow white a brother? White manAmerica's grandiose 'melting pot" dream has divested peoples of their respective must learn!
cultures and substituted the glamorous bounty of the almighty greenback. But 

nevertheless, cultural separatism, as preached on the Notre Dame podium ("White 
l:ldndge Cleaver, altnougn 1n a wnJte mans pnson, su11 1ast year stressed the 
man, do your own thing and Jet us do ours.") approaches foolery. The black man's 
necessity of a bla~:k-white alliance.
philosophy is everyman's philosophy. And it is the mQrality of the black 
The Black !'anther Party through its coalition with the (white) Peace and Freedom Party and its merger with SNCC has been the vector of communication between the most im{Jortant vortexes of black and white radicalism in A merica. Any black leadership in our era, with national ambitions has to embody this functional flexibility without sacrificing ils integrity or its rock-bottom allegiance to the black masses. 
.1969 
An Tostal Queen 
Renewal for Ameri~:a begins with the emergence of the bla~:k identity, and we as whites should join the movement as -enlightened functionaries but never as
Must be Irish 
manipulative thinkers. For reason is irt possession of the black intellect; they are our sages, our prophets, our philosophers. Separatism as a permanent philosophy will never effect a total cultural revolution. The white man must go to school with the black revolutionary. And separatist Ron Karenga with his pork -chop 
Final day for entries Friday 
nationalism (black capitalism) may shred his daishiki, but the stoned soul picnic 
will remain for everybody. 
Submit pictures and resume to 244 Badin 
Friday May 16 .1969 Tri-Ciass Prom Invitations $9.50 

Communion Brunch with Fr. Hesburgh Tickets $5.00 
't.9 


Rm 2D LaFortune Student Center 






