
Non-violent program greeted with approval By Dave Lammers and Practice of the Non-violent Re­lence 111d non-violence. As a result, C.S.C., who has spent his life involved solution of Human Conflict became hundrt'ds of interested alumni wroteLast spring a new program of study with the communications media. As a reality, Professor McCarthy received congratulatory letters, while only twoand action began at Notre Dame, result of h1~ influence the Mutual, over three hundred personal requests condemned the program as part of tlienamely the Program for the Study and Broadcasting Network, 6,000 indepen­for entrance into the two seminar Cummunist takeover. One grad re­l'radicc of the Non-vioknt Resolution1 dent radio stations have donated sections, including some sixty or sev­sponded by making his first contribu­of human Conflict. The program em­twenty-six, three and one-half minute enty requests from St. Mary's girls, in tion to Notre Dame. The Chicagoanated from a collegiate seminar meet­spots to the concept of non-violence in spite of the fact that the seminar was Police Journal reprinted the Alumnusinr, of Professor Charles McCarthy, and the basic family situation. Th.e stations not listed in the spring course booklet. interview in its entirety. Ave Maria was presented to Father Heshurgh by a intended to. have the radio scriptsAs a result of this student response, magazine devoted a cover story to thenon-partisan group of student leaders. written by professional writers, but Paul Douglass, a Hawaiin theologian program entitled, "Can you see ChristThe response to this idea is fascinat­McCarthy insisted that Notre Dame and author of The Non-violent Cross: going down with his guns blazing?"ing; it is more than that, it is living students were capable of writing the A Theology of Revolution and Peace, Over a hundred newspapers have re­proof of the power of an idea come of scripts. Anyone who is interested in was enticed into coming to Notre ported the founding of the program.age. The response is evidence that working on this project should contact" Dame. Douglass is presently teachingmany Americans are convinced that 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Mr. McCarthy.three sections of the non-violent sem­violence is dead as a means of resolving 1Interest in the program for inar. Mario Corradi, an 1talian whohuman conflict or achieving positive OBSERVER INSIGHT non-violence has come to this com­social change. Very simply, the life of taught philosophy here last year, is munity from veterans, housewives, stu­11111111111111111111111111111111111111111 a non-vioil'nt person is founded on the now at Yale studying non-violence, dents, college administrators, and theIrv Kupcinet, the host of the Kuppwith a grant from Notre Dame, andconvktion that all human beings must uneducated. Many other universitiesShow in Chicago, heard about thewill return to Notre Dame next year tobe treated as persons and not as things, have asked for information so that a program in Rome, and interviewedtools, or instruments for personal grat­teach in the program. Also of interest similar program can be started. And aMcCarthy on his evening conversationification. is the fact that the administration of twenty year old from Cambridge, Mas­program in early September. In June,the program is handled by a com­Observe. Two weeks after the pro­sachussetts, John C. Birmingham III,McCarthy spoke before The Nationalmittee of which there is one moregrain was proposed to Father sent a three page telegram of congratu­Catholic Layman Association's con­llesburgh, the Gulf Oil Corporation student member than faculty member. lations.vention in Cleveland. In Trivoli, Newgranted $100,000 to Father Hesburgh The response fro· ~ outsicle of the Perhaps this entire response is an Notre Dame-St. Mary's community has York, the American Pax Associationto . he used for the founding of a awakening of conscience among Amer­been equally impressive. respnnded to the program with a program of non-violence. In addition, icans. It is exciting to realize that, here The Alumnus magazine of last Aug­resolution congratulating Father l-Ies­constant, behind the scenes, support and now, we are involved in a rebirthburgh.was given by Father Hesburgh and his ust devoted one (Jf the longest articles of that life-style that Christ andOne of the most imp0rtant reac­staff to the program. in its history to an interview with Ghandi preached and live(! : Love yourProfessor McCarthy concerning vio­tions came from Rev. Patrick Peyton.When the Program for the Study enemy.  

WEDNESDAY, SEPTI::MBER 24, 1969 
Members disagree with 

• SU ticket policy change 
By Tim Treanor 
made the same decision in a

i ._,._. 
The decision of Student similar situation. There are Union Director Dennis Clark to certain people who receive release for sale fifty tickets for nothing for their services." This, 

;,~
...
.;. ­
Saturday's Purdue game which alleged Vecchi, was unfair. were being held for special sale Clark's top officials were by 

:.~~ '" to the Student Union Staff has no means unanimously opposed apparently met with less than to his decision. Executive unanimous support from the Secretary Jim D'Aurora Student Union memhership. enthusiastically endorsed the 
In an interview Comptroller action. "It's been due for a long Jay Fitzsimmons expressed fear time," he said, "I'm glad we that the action would undercut finally did it."

-the morale of the Student Union D'Aurora discounted volunteer staff. speculation that the move would ''It definitely took some significantly impair the morale motivation from the people at of the Student Union workers. Student Union," Fitzsimmons Student Services said. "They are unpaid Commissioner Robert Pohl who volunteers who work ten to will be directly affected by the twenty io!ours a week. They like move, is less than optimistic 
c: to feel that they are special about the program's beneficial 
.!:!J: people, and this action deprived effects. He contended that them of this feeling." "people who will be working on

Father Joyce signed a proclamation declaring "India Week at Notre Dame" 
"We're worried about the low the lottery tonight are going to the week of September 29th. Story on page 2. men on the totem pole," he be deprived of a certain amount continued, "the people who are of self-satisfaction." selling tickets. We can't pay "It was Denny's (Clark) and 
them. They get nothing out of Tito's (Trevino) decision," Pohl 

sitting there and selling tickets -continued. "It was a goodIr the trend in the past has m<~thematil:s," he added. "Many more stringent requirements of a job that can't be classified as decision, a tough decision, but it been increasing specialization, of these science interdisciplinary the major program help prepare 

N D Science alters requirements 
fun. How are we going to keep could have been a better 
the road of tht: future may well fields are on the frontiers of students for graduate work, and them working?" decision. 1 think that it's ht: toward ''double rese01n.:h." eventual research." 
Fitzsimmons also stated: "I necessary to put aside some specialization." To accommodate this n~:w Waldman explained that the agree with the concept and the tickets -perhaps ten tickets ­
At Notre Dame, the College breed of student, the College of new concentration program was for the people who work on the
idea behind the decision, but I
of Science is making room in its created "to meet tht: needs of a
Science will alter its believe that the Student Union lottery. The hard workers 
program for the new double requirements this fall to include new breed of student." This deserve options on the tickets."
must find some new way to
spel'i01list, or interdisciplinary a new, more flexible student. he said, demands that 
motivate its workers, or else "From a public relations maJor. "concentration" program. Dr. his courses be "relevant," and we'll have a hard time getting angle, it's a valid decision,'' Pohl I"The hoy who wants to !-:mil T. lloffman, assistant dean worries about solving the stated, "a very good move. But a I
people to work with us." 
combine science with writing, of the college and chairman of problems of society. i
Fitzsimmons said that he was student's chance of getting 
~
business, law or edu~.:ation oftt•n the Colll•ge Curriculum This was demonstrated consulted by Clark on the idea tickets is not greatly increased." 
has a good career waiting for Commillee. describes the new recently wht:n a talented Notre before the decision was made, Pohl, along with Stay Senator 
him upon graduation t~ven with program as "less rigid," and Dame student turned down a 1
and he expressed the same and Assistant Academic 
just a hat•ht•lor's degree," Dr. perfect for the boy who wants National Science Foundation Commissioner, Rich Hunter,
sentiments to him. 1 
Bernard W01ldrnan, dean of the to end his science education fellowship for graduate study, Social Commissioner Dave Transportation director Tim I college, cxplaint:d. with a B.S. degree. and wt:nl to leach in the 
Vecchi, who claimed to have Collins, and J irn Gattas, as "We also haVl' to consider the "However," Hoffman adds. innn-rity. Waldman noted, 
been also ~.:onsultcd on Clark's organizers of the student lotterystudt•nt who wants to combine "stutknts with a clear 1<1knt for "This shows us that we have a 
decision, was rcludant to were scheduled to have received ~ h is h i o I o g y major with resean:h will still ht: encouraged different group of students now, I
comment. When pressed, he tickets before Clark's decision to chemistry, physi~.:s or to try our major program. The (continued on page 2) 
admitted that "I would not have (continued on page 2) 

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1969
PAGE 2 
THB OBSE/WDt 
Following South Bend proclamation 


India. Week is declared at Notre Dame by Fr. Joyce 
774 Lincoln Way East 
a lot of time and we ought to have some compensation. If I 
South Bend, Indiana 46618 
WE'RE BACK!! 
don't go on the bus, instead of
10C a beer at the AlUMNI ClUB 
me some guy who doesn't move
FREE UNIVERSITl 
his butt all year over at Lyons Hall gets to go just because the
Nt'h'DS 
7-Spm Wednesday & Thursday 
computer generates his I.D. number." 
COURSES AND lEADERS 
Gallas and Hunter both spoke in favor of Clark's decision.
SMC girls invited also.
Your Name and 
Gattas denied that the tickets 
Course Resume to: 
provided him with any motivation to work in the
Box 66 SMC or 
student government.
...members only
Rick Ubowitz c/o ND Student Gov't. 
"I think its a pleasure to work for the student government," he said, "It's its own reward, and I think a lot of the guys working
COMMUNITY NEWSTAND 
there would agree with me."



EDISON/LIGHT 
121 W. WASHINGTON 
The tall, articulate Hunter 
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46601 PH-234-!BSS 
gave Clark's decision even more 
NOVELTES...CARDS-BOOKS & MAGAZINES 
extravagant praise. 
EDISON AT IRONWOOD 
"It's a very good decision -an excellent decision," he said. He
PSYCIIEDHIC LITHS 
revealed that he and Stay
1 MI. EAST OF STADIUM 
CANDL/:'S 
POSTt:RS 
Senator Tom Thrasher had 
UNDI:'RGROUND PAPERS 
planned to introduce a bill in--the Student Senate that would
.SOPHISTICATED SOUND 
We also have Books 
approximate Clark's changes before Clark's move was made . 
•DANCING 


SI.C 
.ElABORATE liGHT SHOW 

APPLICATIONS ARE NOW BEING ACCEPTED FOR THE POST OF EXECUTIVE 
SECRETARY OF THE STUDENT LIFE COUNCIL. THE POSITION ENTAILS THE 
RECORDING OF ALL STUDENT LIFE COUNCIL MINUTES. THE POSITION MAY CARRY A SALARY. THIS WILL BE DETERMINED BY THE FINANCIAL SITUATION OF THE STUDENT. SEND APPLICATIONS TO FRED DEDRICK BOX 522, STUDENT GOV'T. 
EVERY FRIDAY IS COllEGE NIGHT 
free doors open music 

OFFICE. PLEASE INCLUDE LIST OF ALL EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
parking at 8:30 9 to 12 

AND QUAUFICATrONS. 

Father Edmund Joyce, Acting President of the University, signed Monday a proclamation declaring the week of ~eptember 29th as "India Week at Notre Dame." Mayor Lloyd Allan signed a similar proclamation for South Bend last week. 
India week is designed to commemora~e the IOOth anni­versary of the birth of the Indian leader, Mohandas Gandhi. 
The proclamation reads in part, "The life of Mohandas 
REDISCOVER 
TAP£ RECORDING 
/'lore/co"
150 REGULAR $64.50 
~7.oe•s $5997 


PH. 287-7218 
Gandhi was a life dedicated to 
freedom, self-sacrifice, 
non-violence, racial equality, and 
religious tolerance. It is fitting 
that the University of Notre 
Dame community join in 
celebrating the memory of this 
great man and the principles 
which guided his life ..." 
The India Association has 
organized a week long series of 
events to honor the memory of 
Gandhi. The first will be two 
exhibitions of books and 
pictures on India that will be 
displayed at both the Memorial 
Library on campus, and the 
downtown South Bend public 
library. These will be available 
for viewing towards the middle 
of this week. 
0 n 0 ctober 2nd, the 
birthdate of Gandhi, a lecture 
and a_ panel discussion will be 
held in the library auditorium, at 
8 p.m. The chief speaker will be 
Dr. Amiya Chakravarty. His talk 
Program changed in Science Dept. 
(continued from page 1) 
and we have to teach to fulfill their needs." 
To fulfill their needs, the curriculum committee has been working with the colleges of arts and letters, business, education, and law to create suggested coordinate programs in the areas of science writing, technical business, science education, and science-related law. 
The new concentration 
programs asks only 30 credit 
hours in the majo'r field, and 50 
hours in science. The major 
program requires about 40 hours 
in the major field, and 70 hours 
in the College of Science. 
Complete Component Systems 
Buy yours at 
LAFAYETTE RADIO ELECTRONICS 
731 South Michigan Street 

is entitled "Gandhi: The instructor in non-violent studies. 
evening of classical Indian dance 
Relevance of his personal and Tentative plans also include a 
performance. Mrs. Sudha 
political philosophy today." representative of the black Chandra, an internationallyProf. Chakravarty teaches people. The panel will discuss acclaimed performer, will dance,
philosophy courses at the State Dr. Chakracarty's speech with accompanied by her mother Mrs. 
University of New York at New special emphasis in its relevance Jaya Doraiswami. Mrs. Chandra Paltz. to the United States. 
will be coming to Notre DameThe pane I discussion On October 3rd, the award from Canada.

afterwards will include Dr. winning Indian film "Ram Aur McCarthy, head of the Shyam" will be shown in the The India Association has 60 Non-Violent Studies program, library auditorium. members, of which about half and Mr. James Douglass, an October 5th will feature an are students. 
Broden to coordinate urban studies 
Thl~ appointment of Thomas 
of study and teaching, research, 13rod~:n, rrofessor of law, to and service. He expected most ..:oordin<Jte urban studies pro­research programs to be develop­grams at Notre Dame was an­ed on the graduate level, but nounced yesterday. noted that he also intended to 
In a Jetter to Notre D1.·nc work with undergraduates in faculty members, the ·lev. study and servke efforts. (Notre Theodore M. Hesburgh, c.::;.c., Dame students Hast May formed said that University recognized the Robert F. Kennedy Institu­the iPter-disciplinary aspect of tion for Social Action, an um­urban studies and wanted "to brella-type organization designed devise a coordinating precess to coordinate undergradu<~tc so­
that will encourage and support cial adion programs.) those whose interests, talents, and responsibilities are oriented toward urban affairs." Professor Thomas Broden Disagree over 
Notre Dame's president said 
faculty membe:·s interested in

urban problems included racial dis crimination, poverty, and urban st1.dies. Initial 'inancing new union policy 
of Notre Damt's program ·rillalienation; the impersonality, in­come from a $200,000 gf'lnt (continued from page 1)effectiveness, and in.; ustice of 

from I nternatio 1al Business ·A a­

public and private ir.stitutiuns; 
chines Corporation, announ;;e j throw the fifty tickets back topollutior. and waste, and "me­

in April. ·

teoric" technological change. the student lottery. 
"We want to develop a pro­Broden, 44, who re .urns to The reaction of this group, cess and program that addres~es t:1e Notrl! Dame faculty after which stood to lose most in the high priority urban concerns a:'d t'NO ye;.rs in Washin[ ton as chief new setup, ranged from 
is responsive to the interests a ·,d c.f trair ing and t !cl•nical assist­enthusiastic endorsement by talents of the faculty and sf.u­Ince for the Offici! c i l.c onomic Hunter· to bitter denunciation by dents," Father Hesburgh said, )pportunity, saiJ urbc:r. stut!ies Collins. adding that he expected that he at No.re Dame would tend to "The people who put their "resources of the University will emt>lu:size applied science <Ud backs into this thing should be be bro~1ght more forcefully to community development. "We able to go," said Collins in be:.tr" on local, regional, national 
will concentrate less on surveys response to a question. "The and international levels. The lo­and more on assessments of ef­decision was obviously not the cal <~rea, in particular, he uid, 
forts to solve problems," he said. best of all possible decisions. "will be the laboratory of til': "These assessments can •.1ften Fifty tickets are far too many, urban studies progra:n." best be done within the frame­but zero is patently unfair." F -Jther Hesburgh' s letter a .1-work of an action program." "People who work in the nou 1ced a 4 p.m. lll'~etibg Oct. I Broden said he hoped to ac­Student Union are volunteers," in Room I02 of tl:e C.mter f Jr celerate University urban studies Collins went on. "we can't get 
paid a plugged nickel. We put inContinuing Education for those planning in the three main areas 



WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1969 

PAGE 3 
•

Performing arts IS topic of speakers 
OPEN! 

1/l.'il Known eJucators. Nancy upon till' importance of utiliL.ing the 'Jovember 7-'J symposium final llll'l'ling of the group on M.:1'ormick Rambusch and the pt•rforming arts as a medium on I he topic kat uring Karl January 21. allendees will be Maurice Belanger, are slateJ to of the cJuc:.~tional process. ~lt•nninger, S.l. llay<Jkawa, asked for a wrillen evaluation of appear on the Saint Mary's Col­Speakers and panel discussions Meyer Schapiro. David Cr;Jbb, I he lecture snies as a learning lege campus during the fin:.~l will highlight means of leaching Michel Bulor, Paul Ricm·ur, experience. months of the school's 12Sth students how to listen and what Roman Jakuhson, and Rulon All persons interested and Anniversary. T~1ey will he guest to listen for in order to get the Wt•lls. There will also be involved in education arc invited speakers at a popular series, most out of a performance. ntl'c!ings preceding the Ocl<oher to at!t'nd the fn:e sessions. "[)i a Iogue: Trends in Con­The guest speakers and pant'! lJ present at ion of "The Met'lings will be hl'ld on lht• lt•mporary Education." d iso..:ussions throughout the Believers," a musical d ra mu of campus on Wednesday evenings 
Overall theme of the l~urrent course of the series have been tht~ hi~;tory of the hlao..:k people, from 7:30 p.m. to lJ:OO p.m. in st•ries, which lasts through mid­scheduled to coincide with und the November S the Madelcva Memorial January, is "Utilizing the Per­Sl'lccted events of the Saini presentation of Moliere's "The Bu-ildi11g's Carroll H<JII. 
One Dav Service 
NO /:'XTRA CIIARGH 
Cleaning and Shirts 
410 N. Michigan Street Next to McDonald's 










-------~-------­

forming Arts in <l Civic Com­Mary's College Performing Arts Misanthrope." munity as a !.earning l:xper­series. Tickets for 1hese Robert Speaight of Kent, 
DEADLINE FOR STUDENT
ience." The l'lllphasis will he funl'lions may he purchaseJ by l:ngland, who will Jireo..:t the non-students at the ()'Laughlin pnformu nee~· of "RofT!eo anJ Auditorium b())( office. Juliet" w: ich will he presenleJ 
ACCIDENT + HEALTH

Fischer to open 
i.1r~:. Rambusch, ·..iirector of in t•arly l:ec~::mber, will bt~ the tht! lc:arly Learning a'roject at the featurnl speaker o.1 November
dialogue series 
INSURANCE

New York Foundling llospi:al 19. I! is topic will be "l.ilerature: 
and a widely at·k nowkdgeJ Tl.>! Story or the Art." 
OCTOBER 6, !969

tonight at SMC 
ex pert on the Montessori :>n December 3, 1969, for more information sec
philoscphy of teaching, will prl'<;eding the oresentdi'J:1 of1'rot'cssor l;dward Fischer of Mike Mastej in Room 2
spl~ak lll October 1 S. Her topic Norman !kilo Joio's specialthe llniversity of Notrt• Dame, 
LaFortune Student Center Department of Communic.:tion 
will be "The Montessori Ft·sLI" I ~';.s:; o·1 '"'eccmher 7 
Paradox." :1nJ H, l·:muw Kountz, concert
Arts, will he thl' hynott' speak'~r 
(' n Octobn 22, Maurice pi;onisl :.lllJ visiting lecturer atat St. Mary's College tonight in 
Belan)'er will speak on 'The Johns llopkins University inthe opening of the College's Ser­Piaget School: A Theory of l91lH, will discuss religious music aes, "Dialogue: Trends in ('on­
SENIORS

Kno\"ledgt•." Belanger, recently in I he church. Uer !opic will be
tl'mporary hlucalion." 
nam,·d Profl·ssor Agregt' at the "Tradition Trivia Triumph inProfessor l;ischer will address 
Uni. ersity of Montreal, was Contemporary Church Music."
his comml·nts to the unJerlying 
formerly at llarvard. "TV: Who Cares?" will be thethenw of the entire series, "Uti­
Professor hiward Fisclwr, of s,1bjel'l of Curtis W. Davis,li7ing the J>erforming Arts as a 
Th~ 1970 Senior Fellow CPmmittee is now

I he University of Notre Dame's direl'lor of cultural programs,Learning Fxpnknce in <1 Civic 
acr,epting nominations for the 1970 Senior

Deprtment of Communication ]·~ational Fducalional Television,{'ommunitv." 
The meeting will be held from 1\r•s. will speak on the keynote on Den:111 be r I 0. 
Fellow Program. 

7:30 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. in the thune tonigilt at 7:30. The fin<1l dialogue on January Madeleva Memorial Building's r)n October 1, a panel 14, 1970, will precede the Carro11 flail. d';;cussion on "l.anguagc, January 17 pcrformar··:e of the 
Fischer, who teaches courses in Symbol, Reality" w'!I preo..:ede De('orrnier Folk Singers. At the Any member of the Senior Class of 1970
design, writing, speeo..:h and film studies, is the author of The 
may nominate a fellow. Rationales need not ScreC'n Arts and has written more 
SNEA 
be induded, but are welcome. than 600 magazine articles. He has been a juror at eight film festi­
HAS A NEW LOOK... 
Send nominations to:

vals here and abroad and has made eight motion pictures. 
BE PART OF IT. 
In addition to his own creative 
Michael Kelly, Chairman activities, Professor Fischer has 
All interested SMC-ND students come to 1970 Senior Fellow Committee 
lectured at the Salzburg Seminar 
St. Mary's Coffeehouse Thursday Sept. 25th 420 Breen-Phillips Hall
in American Studies in Austria, at 
at 7:00 p.m. 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556

Dartmouth. Purdue, the Univer­sity of Oklahoma, and the Univer­sity of llawaii. He has been on the 

* 
Hoard of Directors for the Univer­sity Film l>roducers Association 
I-

and is a member of the American 
Fly your ·;:: 0 
c Sm:iety of Cinematologists. 
e

own jet! ...
0

Grace stu dents 
..: 
g

discuss govt. 
·;::
• !I 
;: a. 
<(

The residents of Grace Tower 
3
ii

FI.Y NAVY z ..• c E 
mel last week to approve a 
0 

constitution and to set up an 
Repre~entative will be on campus .. 11 .. .. !!:
:I ...

interim towN govl•rnment to run 
Sept. 24, 25, 26 0
.... 'i ~ 0:

the hall until its members move into their rooms. The meeting was held 
REFRIGERATORS FOR RE-NT 
primarily to insure that Grace Tower would meet SLC requirements for hall parietal 
THE NORCOLO MODEL NO. E201
hours. The interim government 
UNLIMITED SUPPLY 
met immediately following the 
<Deco(citor 
meeting to arrange the 
S7.00 per month
presentation of Grace's constitution and government to the SLC review board. With the 
Share the cost approval of Ihe board I he 
with your roommates women's visiting hours for (;race llall will be as follows: 
Friday: 8-1 p.m. 
NORCOLD, INC. 1501 Michigan Slreet, Sidney, Ohio 45365 
Saturday: 12-1 p.m. 
A Subsidiary of lhe Stolle Corporation 
Sunday: 1-7 p.m. The new temporary government also intends to begin 
YOU CAN RENT 
work on the hall's j ud io..:ial code. 
OR BUY 
Monetary reward for any student wishing to move on 
DELIVERY, SERVICE, MAINTENANCE, AND PICK UP ARE FREE 
campus. l'lt·ase contact Torn ;ustafson. 243 B 1'. ph. 3-1294. 
COMPACT COOL, INC. 
The Observer Is published daily during the college semester e><cept 
Another Service ofStudent Services Commission 
vacations by the students of the Unlve"lty of I'J?tre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions m11y 
CONTACT-Jim or Bob Pohl 
be purchased for $8 from The 
7757 or 1180
Observer, Bo>< 11, Notre Dame 
4th floor LaFortune
Ind., 46556. Second class post11ge 
or 3ll FlonnPr Tower 
'laid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556­
., 

PAGE 4 THE_ OBJIBIIIB. WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1969 
Scrambler Phipps must beat N D blitz 
Recall. if you will, the head­390 yards. He compkted 11-24 point interesting to the Irish, Purdue's offensive line. Of the Big Alex Davis plays a lot ofline in Sunday's South Bend passes for 286 yards and scram­now ranked 8th by UPI and 9th sewn men on the front line, defense in Purdue's 4-3 or 5-2Tribune: "Phipps, Brilliant bled for I 03 more. Purdue, by AP, it was the weakness of only three own letters and three defensive alignments. At 6-5 andAgain, Frases Record For Yard­which rolled up SH3 total of­arc sophomores. Phipps was 265 pounds, Davis holds down age as Purdue Wins Wild Tilt." fense yards (a school record) forced to snamblc frequently the middle guard spot in tht: 5-2That just about says wh<Jt has to hung on to win 42-35. 

against the Horned Frogs. lie and tackle in the 4-3. The Rivet­he the principal worry for Ara The score of the game is not a did, howt:ver, escape most of tJ,e ers feature lettermen
eight onP<Jrseghian's crew this Saturday true indication of its one-side­time to damage TCU with his defense, five of them doublein Laf<Jyette Boilermaker quar­dness, as TCU scored I<Jte (pass running. ND got to North­letter winners. Purdue hopesterback Mike Phipps. inten;eption, fumble recovery, western's Daw Shelbourne be­that linebacker Dick Marvel,Against TCU last Saturday, punt return) to close a. 35-7 fore he could locate his re­missing against TC'U recovers inPhipps broke Bob Griese's single deficit. 

l'eivers, but Phipps could negatt' time for Saturday. Marvel missed game total yardage record with If the game highlighted one the powerful Irish linebacker 

last season due to injmy, but in 111111111111111111111111111111111 IIIII1IIII11UIItllllllllllllllll""l blitz witl; his running. his junior year he made 20 de­The Boilermakers also got fine fensive stops against the Irish. performances out of some key A less tangible force battling untried personnel. Junion half­the Irish Saturday will be the back Randy Cooper rolled up "Ara-neve.r-wins-the-big-game" 117 yards on the ground, while theory. Purdue coah Jack Mol­
sports parade 

Pressure 
soph end Ashley Bell caught two lenkopf owns a 9-4 record a­TD passes. Stan Brown hauled in gainst Notre Dame, while By Milt Richman, UPI eports columnist three passes for I 08 yards, in­Parseghian is 3-5 against Purdue. cluding a 67-yard TD toss from The last Irish victory in Ross­11111111111111111111111111111111111111111.111111111 Phipps. Cooper. Brown and full­Ade Stadium came in I 961 hack John Bullock replace super (22-20). Perhaps more favorable All-American Leroy Keyes, All is the fact that the last ND win 
Big Ten Perry Williams, and Jim over the Boilernwkers was whenNl·:W YORK (UPI) This guy was a nail biter, one of the red hot Purdue featured a senior quarter­Kirkpatrick, lost through grad­worriers. 
back ( 1966, Griese). Phipps is auation.
He wasn't hitting at this particular time, which was always senior.

something of a full blown crisis with him, and the fact his manager was showing uncommon good sense by not playing him every day converted what might have been only a routine calamity into an • utter catastrophe. 
Sailors w1n opening regatta
Our boy wasn't taking this lying down. No sir. He was standing right up there at the bar planning his next course of action The Notre Dame Sailing team in the Midwest by Michigan, al meet last fall and should do

alternately feeling sorry for himself and resentful for everybody else: began the fall season with a Indiana, Oshkosh College, and well again this year. 
While mulling over the whole thing at the bar, Rudy Red Hot victory at Milwaukee, Wisconsin Wisconsin. The goal for the fall If anyone missed the boothchanced to notice the patron alongsidt: him at whom he suddenly this weekend breezing by Mar­will be the Timme Angston on activities night, there will be

snapped: quette, Oshkosh (Wis.), Wiscon­Memorial Cup Regatta held in a meeting tonight at 6:30 in
"And what do you want?" 

sin, Lawrence (Wis.), and Iowa. Chicago on November 30. Notre Room 204 Engineering Building. 
"I'm the manager of the hotel your ball club is staying at," the Returning skippers Richie Dame placed third in this nation-New members are welcome. 

man said, recognizing the ballplayer. 

Doyle, Mike Morrissey, Chuck
"Hotel manager!" our hero sniffed contemptuously. "What 

Taylor, and Bill McElroy led the
problems do you have? None. The only problem you have once in fleet in the event.
awhile is making sure that couple checking in without luggage are 

This victory capped a success­
really man and wife. That's the only trouble you ever have. What do 

ful summer for members of the
you know about problems? Do you ever have a TV camera on you 

team. In June, ND represented
all the time? You don't have people calling you a burn when you 

the Midwest Collegiate Sailing
strike out? You don't know what pressure is. What do hotel· 

Association in the North Amer­
managers know about pressure?" 

ican Championships and placed
The hotel manager said nothing. He had been around a long time. 

eighth in the nation. Three ND
Long enough to know when to keep quiet, and long enough to know 

helsrnen took third in the team
any "guest" in his hotel was right even at such times when he was dead wrong up there at the bar. 

racing division. Team captain Doyle then left for the British
There's no question that major league baseball players operate 

Isles to sail with the US Col­
un_der pressure, extreme pressure. They are not alone. They only 

legiate All-American team. In
thmk they are. Surgeons, diamond cutters, bankers, and bus drivers 

four major regattas with British
work under pressure, too. So do plain everyday housewives and hotel managers at various times. schools, the US team won 16 out of 20 team racing matches. 
What brings all this to mind are some of those ballplayers who 

The prospects for the season
said they couldn't take it anymore and left their clubs without word 

are excellent, according to Com­
this season. There was Joe Pepitone, and Willie Horton before that. 

modore Morrissey, as all the top
Both later conce.ded they had made a mistake. Everything 

skippers return from last year.
between Horton and the Detriot Tigers apparently is okay now and 

Tough competition is promised
Horton's buddy, Gates Brown, might have supplied the most significant footnote to the entire episode when he said, "It takes a special kind of person to be a ballplayer and I thought Willie 

Irish 8th
understood that." 

Gates Brown makes a good point. It does take a special kind of NEW YORK (UPJ) -The person to be a ballplayer, the kind with a high tolerance for United Press International top performing under pressure, for ignoring the occasional hostility of 20 major college football teams fans, for putting up with a gruelling type schedule that would make with first place votes and even a Sampson seek some rest, and for dozens of other pressures won-lost record in parentheses. white collar workers rarely face. FIRST WEEK 
But guys like Willie Horton aren't interested in being white collar Team Points workers: they want to be ballplayers. Willie Horton doesn't blow up 1. Ohio State ( 24) 0-0 283 or lose his cool that easily, but like most ballplayers, or like most 2. Penn State (1) 1-0 236 people of any kind for that matter, he is tense and nervous at times 3. Texas (3) 1·0 223 and sensitive to outside pressures. In other words, William Horton is 4. Arkansas (8) 1·0 201 human and when they booed him for striking out one night on top 5. Southern Cal (21 1·0 201 o_f what he later referred to as his own "personal problems," he 6. Oklahoma 1·0 133 Simply felt he had enough and walked out. 7. Georgia 1-0 111 
8. Notre Dame (1)1-0 103
He's not likely to do it again. Not because of the money it cost 
9. UCLA 2·0

him so much although that's always a factor, hut because he is a 71 
10. Florida (1)1-0 67 
Zimmerman through
professional and professionals are not supposed to act that way. Not 

11. Indiana 1·0 59
more than once anyway. 
Fullback Jeff Zimmerman, who sparked NO's ground game as a

12. Missouri 1-0
Look at it this way: Punjpsie Green and Gene Conley can get off 53 soph and who was hobbled by injuries last year, will not play at all
13. Mississippi 1·0 37
the Boston Red Sox team bus in midtown here and they can even this season. A scrimmage injury two weeks ago sent Jeff in for

14. Purdue 1·0 32
coo~ up plans to hightail it to Israel, once, hut if they start making a precautionary x-rays. It was discovered that he had a congenital

15. Michigan State 1·0 31
habit of It, well, then, the Red Sox see to it that they begin getting malfunctioning kidney (unrelated to the football injury.) Doctors

16. Stanford 1·0 20
their mail in Tel Aviv, not Boston.· 
have advised that he not participate in contact football. Ara

17. Auburn 1·0 19 




Nobody escapes pressure and that goes for those ballplayers in both the top and bottom brackets.  18. Arizona State (1)1·0 19. Louisiana State 1-0  18 13  Parseghion announced that Zimmerman has been awarded the "game ball" from last Saturday's win over Northwestern.  
P~te Rose, Cincin;~tti's Ch:1rlie Hustle, won the National League hattmg title last year but will have a tough ti111e repe;~ting this year. That means pressure but Rose isn't kiting it get to him.  20. Wyoming 1-0 10 0 t hers re ceJv!ng votes: Michigan 9, Alabama 4, South  
"If I took it horne everytime I went hitless I'd go crazy or wmd  Carolina  3,  Florida  Stall'  2,  
up m the nut house," he says. "One thing about this game. There's always a tomorrow."  Tennessee, Miami (Fla.), Ohio Univ., Georgia Tech, Texas Tech  
Which isn't a had philosophy. For a ballplayer or a hotel manager.  1.  




