

Seventy-five Saint Mary's students decided at a Sunday night meeting to take action on the recent dismissal of several Saint Mary's faculty members. The faculty members, given terminal contracts for the aca­demic year 1969-70, include ~:~::=:::::::::::::::::::~:::::::-:::·:~:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;~~~ James Flanagan of the English Department, Kevin Ranaghan
~~r editorial: r 
and Theodore Hcngcsbach of the Theology Department, Gerald
~~~= SM C ~m Wahmhoff and Eugene Buckley of the Philosophy Department, Mrs,. Poinsatte of the French Department, and Murray Salzman of the Education Dep­
I 'Community'? Iartment. Ralph Keifer of the 
f Over semester break contracts were mailed out to St. Mary's ~~~~ t faculty; a significant number of faculty members received r ;:;: non-renewal notices. In the Theology Department three out of:;:; ;:;: six teachers received terminal contracts; in another department :;:; ~~~~ the acting chairman was not asked to come back after next r ;~;~ year; in two other departments a Ph.D. candidate and a ~;~; ~;~; teacher who actually holds a doctorate arc, as of this writing, ;~;~ ;:;: on their way out. The criteria for promotion and for tenure, :;:; ;~;~ based on the rules set down by the AAUP, arc stated in the :;:; :;:; faculty manual; they include the possession of a Ph.D. und ~;~; ~;~; evidence of superior teaching ability. ~lost of these teachers in ;~;~ :j;~ the opinion of either the Rank and Tenure Committee or ~;~; ~;~; Father McGrath, who has the final say in these r.1atters, did ;:;: :;;: not measure up to these standards. Undoubtedly each faculty ;~;~ ::;: member's dismissal must be treated as a separate case in :;:; ~;~ relation to these criteria. In many students' opinion some oft :~: these cases, while not technically unjust, seem unfair to :~:~: ~;~ individuals. But beyond the question of the justice in each ::i:: ;:; individual case, we question both the manner in which these :;:; ~~~ criteria were applied and their general validity. iii~ 
t Students in a way are the only people on campus competent 1 :~; to judge teaching ability, since they are the only ones who j;~; ~;~ have direct experience of a faculty member's teaching. Yet at ;~:! :;:; St. Mary's, students have no legal voice whatsoever in the :;:; :;~; hiring and firing of teachers. The Academic Commission has ~;~; :~;~ tried since the beginning of the year to get students on ;j:: :;:; academic committees but has been so far unsuccessful. :;:; :;:; Students should have at least a voice on both the Rank and :;:; ::~: Tenure Committee's decisions where the case involves promo-:~;~::~1~ tion or granting of tenure, and in each department's recom-~~~; ;:;: mendation when the case is simply one of contract renewal;:;:;: :j;~ perhaps they should have a vote as well on both these levels. ;:j; 
~ ~ 
~~~~ Faculty members are now seated on students committees~~~ ~;~; with voting privileges; students should have some of these::: :i:~ same privileges in relation to faculty committees. t 
m~ If we are going to have community government at St..~~~ :i:i Mary's then we must have participation by all sections of the ;~; :;:; community in the governing; otherwise we should stop calling :;: :;~; it a community government. ;~;~ 
:m: It seems in some of the cases of faculty dismissal that the \ ·~~ prime criteria applied in the judgement of the case was ~:~: :~: possession of a doctorate. This criteria seems to us insufficient. :~:~ j;j A Ph.D. alone is not a guarantee of a good teacher. Many of ? ;:;: the teachers involved decided to .concentrate on students ;:;: :~:: rather than on their Ph.D. studies; they have taken on extra { ~;~: duties in their departments, given time to the Free University } :~:: and the Upward Bound program, to the dcvclopmcn t of ( ~;~: interesting elective courses and to publications. It seems to us ::~; .;:;: that the gain for the community as a result of these teachers' ;:;; { work is just as great if not greater than the status for the ;~;~f college that might have resulted if they had worked on their :;j; ;:; doctoral dissertations. In the future this criterion should not :::. j~j be applied so unilaterally; what should be considered in the iii: ;:; hiring and firing of teachers is the person's contribution to the :;:; :~; community learning experience rather than the kind of letters i:~: :;: after his name. ;:;; 
y N 
·:::::::::::::::;;::::;:;:::::::::::;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::;::-:·:·:·:7:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
THE 

OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and St. Marv ·, College Community 
VOL. Ill, No. 78 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1969 
~SMC students ready action On eight faculty dismissals 
Theology Department was not given a contract renewal. 
Dr. Mark Bambenek of the Chemistry Department appeared at the student meeting in an informal capacity to explain the rules of the American Associ­ation of University Professors applying to promotion, tenure, and the dismissal of faculty. He also explained the relcvent rule as stated in the January I I, 1969 Saint Mary's Faculty Manual. He offered no personal opinions. 
The A.A.U.P. has set up the following standards in deter­mining rank and tenure of fac­ulty members: One may hold the rank of instructor for a maximum of five years, after which he is either promoted to assistant professor or dismissed. After serving two years one must have notice of one year prior to contract termination. After serving seven years, one must be given tenure. 
Flanagan, Ranaghan, Hengesbach, and Kiefer would be due for promotion to as­sistant professor after next year. The now hold instructor status. Wamhoff and Mrs. Poinsatte would receive tenure after next 
year if they had not been given 
terminal contracts. 
The Saint Mary's Faculty Manual bases promotion to as­sistant professor on the fol­lowing standards: !) an earned doctorate or its recognized equivalent, or 2) superior teaching, or 3) public recogni­tion in his discipline through publication of the results of his academic research. Each de part men t chair rna n can recommend a faculty member for promotion. The Rank and Tenure Committee, composed of the Academic Dean, the Aca­demic Vice-President, two per­manent faculty members, the department chairman. and two members of the department, meet to study the recommendation. They either refer it to the President or stop it. The president of the college makes the final decision on each case. 
The case of each faculty member in question varies. Miss Noel, Chairman of the English Department, told several English majors that Flanagan's dismissal seems to be the result of a misunderstanding. There was no meeting of the Rank and Tenure Committee to discuss his case before recommendations were given to the administration. Flanagan said that he received no prior notice that he would be given a terminal contract. "I don't understand it. I was given a terminal contract and I don't know why," Flanagan said. 
In the cases of Ranaghan and Hengesbach, Theology De par tmcnt Chairman Sister Maria Assunta did recommend both men for promotion. The Rank and Tenure Committee voted not to refer these recommendations to the President. Both men have been dismissed effective June, 1970. Ranaghan stated that "it is my impression that completion of a Ph.D. was the supreme criterion in judging these cases." 
Wamhoff has taught at Saint Mary's for several years and has served as Philosophy Department Chairman for the past two years. He would have received automatic tenure if he had not been given a terminal contract. Very little was known of the individual cases of other faculty members. Students are 

currently  investigating  these  
cases.  
Because  of  the  qualification  

of superior teaching, students are attempting to retain several of the dismissed faculty. At the Sunday night meeting it was decided that students would write to Msgr. McGrath, President of Saint Mary's College, stating their reasons why they considered an individual a superior teacher and qualified to remain at Saint Mary's If voicing their opinions through letters to the President has no effect other ways of action wiJI be considered. Msgr. McGrath, vacationing in Hawaii, has been unavailiablc for comment. Dr. Jack Dctzlcr, Executive Vice-President of Saint Mary's, declined comment since McGrath will return to campus today. 
Honor Council takes "leave of absence" after deciding that students do not honor the "honor concept." See back page. 

Administration : Police not invited 
Philip Facenda, attorney and special assistant to Father Hesburgh, issued a statement yesterday clarifying the administration's role concerning the presence of police deputies on campus last Friday afternoon to confiscate the allegedly pornographic film, "Kodak Ghost Poems." The administration's actions in this matter had been a major source of misconceptions by the students and had provided fuel for further agitation by some of the students. 
Facenda reported that he was informed early Friday morning by Mr. Raymond Gauer, executive director of the national office of the Citizens for Decent Literature (COL) and other CD L representatives that William Voor, County Prosecutor, wanted to speak to him. He said that he then called Voor, who said that he knew that incomplete screenings of "Kodak Ghost Poems" and "Flaming Creatures" had been shown the previous afternoon and that an announcement had been made that these films would be shown again Friday in the Student Center. 
Facenda said that a meeting with Voor and Gauer took place later that morning and that at the meeting, he "stressed the University administration's desire if at all possible to prevent the screening of t.hcse films through means available to members of the University community." Mr. Gauer who had been in Thursday's film audience had made out an affadavit alleging that "Kodak Ghost Poems" was "hard-core pornography." Voor then stated that under these circumstances it was his duty to obtain a warrant and impound this film. 
Voor agreed to allow the University to take every possible action within its power to prevent its screening hut he emphasized that it would be necessary for him to take action if the University was not successful in preventing the screening of "Kodak Ghost Poems." Facenda said that he agreed that the University would cooperate in every way with Voor in carrying out his duty." 
In regard to the question of whether the raiding police had a warrant Facenda said that he was presented with a warrant hy Voor while he waited about 2Yz hours for the debating students to decide whether they would screen the films. Facenda added, "When it became apparent that the University could not of itself 
prevent the assembly from screening "Kodak Ghost Poems," Mr. Voor then moved to confiscate the film." 

THE OBSERVER TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 11,1969
PAGE 2 
~o:.:..:n~f::.:h:..=e:.....:c=.:a=-=m~p~u~s:.!.!••:.:....---~tu;:;.;;e;..::.;s·:.....;;f....:...eh.......;._1_1 ----~\ For C onfere nee ,debts, and S LC electlons 
Mankiewicz Student Center. The program 

Senate forms committees 
Frank Mankiewicz, Press Sec­retary to Senator Robert Ken­nedy, founder of the Peace Corps and nationally syndicated col­umnist will speak tonight at 8 
p.m. in the Lobrary Auditorium. 
Folk Festival 
There will be a folk festival this evening at 8:00 p.m. in the second floor ballroom of the includes. thirty folk singers and humorous readings. An admission of $.50 will be charged, with the proceeds going to a needy family. 
Recitalist Leland Gustafson, bass­baritone, of Eureka College faculty and well-known recitalist will appear in a program this evening at 8: 15 in the Little Theatre at SMC. 
The Student Senate met last night and during the course of the meeting established three comrnittees. They will deal with the recent events surrounding the ill-fated Pornography and Censorship Conference, Soph­omore and Junior class debts, and Student Life Council elec­tion procedures. 
SBP Richard Rossie briefly brought the members of the Senate up to date on the events 
of the past few days, including the appointments of Chuck Nau and Mike McCauley to the SLC subcommittee investigating the Pornography Conference inci­
WILL THOSE WHO FAILED TO RESPOND TO THE 
dents. In order to avoid useless and prolonged debate on the LETTER CONCERNING THE CURRICULUM REFORM 
issue, the Senate formed a five­man committee to conduct its 
QUESTIONNAIRE PLEASE REPORT TO 508 OR 517 
own investigation. The commit­tee includes Senators MEMORIAL LIBRARY BETWEEN 9 & S THIS WEEK. 
Zimmerman (chairman), Gelinas, Kurtz, McDonough, and Shaughnessy. The committee will basically concern itself with the University's right to hold such a conference and with the question of academic freedom. 

Strong rumors have reached the Senate that the Junior class has not been keeping any writ­ten records of their financial transactions. A financial com­mittee has thus been established to investigate these rumors, also checking the financial status of the Sophomore class, which is allegedly $2200 in debt. Sena­tors Boland (chairman), Thrasher, Johnson, Hunter, and Barbolla comprise this com­mittee. 
The third committee is the result of a bill proposed by Freshman Senator Joe Brehler. The bill concerns the changing of election procedures for stu­dent members of the Student Life Council. The bill was voted into committee for re-evaluation after a number of points in it were found to be either unac­ceptable and/or misleading. This committee is composed of Sen­ators Mead (chairman), Dedrick, Rumore, and Brehler. 
Passed last night was a bill 




the interviewer won't tell you about 

neral Electric. 
He won't tell you about all the job opportunities we have for college graduates. 
Not that he wouldn't like to. 
It's just that there are too many jobs and too little time. 
In a half-hour interview our man couldn't begin to outline the scope and diversity of the opportuni­ties we offer. Opportunities for engineering, sci­ence, business and liberal arts majors. 
That's why we published a brochure called "Career Opportunities at General Electric." It tells you about our markets, our products, our 

business philosophy and our benefit programs. 
And, in plain language, it tells you exactly how and where a person with your qualifications can start a career with General Electric. It even gives you the first step in starting a career with us-a Personal Information Form for you to fill out. 
If you like what the brochure tells you about us, why not tell us about you? Our interviewer will be on campus soon. 
GENERAL. ELECTRIC 
An equal opportunity employer 

proposed by Senators Barbolla and Zimmerman concerning the election of the Student Body President. Due to the "greater number of capable and inter­ested candidates, the likelihood of a Student Body President elected by Jess than 25 or 30 percent of the student body becomes greater." Because of this, the Senate has resolved that: 
l) 
In the election . . . a majority of the votes cast are needed to win. 

2) 
In the event that no one candidate receives a majority ... a run-off election will be held between the two candidates receiving the greater number of votes ... 

3) 
The run-off election must take place within five days fol­lowing the election. 

4) 
A maximum of $50.00 (additional) may be spent by each presidential ticket . 


between ihe first election an(~_ the run-off election. 
5) The same election rules that applied for the first election apply for the run-off ... 
In other action last night the Senate confirmed the appoint­ment of Dave Kelly as Judicial Coordinator. Bob Rigney, who held that position before being fired by Rossie, will continue as head of the Constitutional Re­vision Committee. 
The Student Senate will meet again next Tuesday at 7:00. 
Three co -eds 
To speak on 
Revolution 
Three beautiful co-eds from 
Bennington College in Vermont 
will speak in the Student Union 
at l :00 P.M. this afternoon on 
campus revolution and student 
participation in educational 
policy. 
The three girls, Christine 
Graham, Rebecca Mitchell, and 
Carole Bolssey, have been 
touring the Midwest lecturing on 
campus politics. This past 
weekend they spent at the 
University of Chicago. 
Bennington College was one 
of the first American institutions 
to allow students to play a part 
in educational policy 
committees. Jt has instituted a 
number of advanced educational 
and governing policies involving 
students. 
The lecture is being sponsored 
by the Student Union Academic 
Commission. 


Coming Soon 
Based on the t>ulitzer Prize 
~~;;~=
~ Mttoocoloo 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------,---­
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 11,1969 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 
Schatz absolves Mroz of blame 
Tom Schatz, Pornography and Schatz expressed the opinion in the past week concerning the 

Censorship Conference 
on the conference held by Mroz organization of the conference,Chairman, in a statement given and himself in saying that, but the mistakes were mine." 
Sunday night absolved John "From the point of view of Mroz In light of this last ststement Mroz, Student Union Academic and myself, this conference has by Schatz that the mistakes were Commissioner, from all blame not gone well in that the level of all his, he offered the followingfor the failure of the conference. 
academic inquiry that the public apology for the The statement explained the 
conference was to have achieved recriminations suffered by Mroz, official relationship between the 
was never fully realized. "I do not wish to see John Mroz two in the area of decision 
Schatz explained why do penance for my sins,making. 
responsibility for the execution especially in that final Schatz said that eight months 
of the conference events was absolution may not be easily ago he was asked by John Mroz 
shouldered by Mroz by saying, secured. Because Mroz has come if he would accept the position 
"It was because the conference to the aid of both myself and of pornography and censorship did not go well that John the students he represents, he conference chairman. Schatz allowed himself to become so has subjected himself to 
said that he accepted because he involved and, consequently, to 
unwarranted criticism, but he had worked with and for Mroz in bear · the primary burden of 
has also aided those students the past and things had gone responsibility. John and I have 
towards attaining a higher level well. 

admitted to numerous mistakes of academic freedom." 
r-----------------------------------------. 


MARDI GRAS'69 
Ticket sales for Champagne 
Brunch, University Club, and 
Communion Breakfast 

at the Morris Inn 
will be ~old in the Dining Halls tonite. 0-C students can pick up tickets in the Social Commission Office today and tomorrow. 

Rip up our instructions on self-defense. After all, it's Valentine's Day. 
0

.-.. <1 / j) 
~ '¥~ ~ ()
0 _j/te..4 R/19 
THE WORLD TODAY 
VIet negotiator bids leave of Paris 
PARIS (UPI) -Le Due Tho, supervisor of North Vietnam's 
negotiating team, left unexpectedly yesterday for Hanoi. There was 
immediate speculation he was carrying secret American proposals to 
break the dead-locked peace talks. 
Tho, a close associate of President Ho Chi Minh, described his 
mission as "routine." But allied diplomats said each of his two 
previous flights to Hanoi had brought perceptible shifts in the 
Communist stand. 
It was considered noteworthy that Vice President Nguyen Co Ky 
returned to Saigon Sunday, presumable to sound out President 
Nguyen Van Thieu on the new U.S. proposals. Ky is the overseer of 
the South Vietnamese negotiating team. 
Tho, who ranks No. 7 in the North Vietnamese hierarchy, was 
flying to Hanoi via Moscow and Peking, his usual stopping off places. 
lie is expected to brief soviet and Communist Chinese officials on 
the progress of the Paris talks. 
Before boarding a Soviet airliner at Paris, Tho told newsmen he 
believed there had been no progress in the Vietnam conference. He 
insisted there can be no substantive negotiations until the United 
States agrees to withdraw its 535,000 man expeditionary force from 
South Vietnam. 
Tho accused President Nixon of "following the same policies" as 
former President Lyndon B. Johnson. "Therefore, there was no 
progress," Tho said. 

Chicago U. students favor amnesty 
CIIICAGO (UPI) A student opinion poll at the embattled 
University of Chicago indicated yesterday a majority believe 
protesters should not have started their sit-in at the school's 
administration building but should be granted amnesty for their acts. 
The results of the poll were published in the Maroon, the student 
newspaper, as housing eviction notices were served upon six of the 
rebels and a special disciplinary committee heard from five students 
accused of participating in the 12-day sit-in. 
Unlike meetings of the disciplinary committee Friday and 
Saturday, when the student dissidents disrupted sessions, yesterday's 
hearing was quiet. Steve Rothkrug, spokesman for a half dozen 
demonstrators who listened to the proceedings, said they did not 
attempt to break up the hearing because "There weren't enough of 
us today." 
Rothkrug distributed a pamphlet calling the disciplinary commit­
tee "illegitimate" and demanding amnesty for students who have 
participated in the sit-in. 
Pueblo crewman testifies In court 
CORONADO, Calif. (UPI)-The chief engineman aboard the USS 
Pueblo said yesterday he considered destroying the ship's engines 
just before the North Koreans seized the vessel, but received no 
command to do so. 
Monroe Goldman, 37, of North Little Rock, Ark., said under 
questioning by the attorney for Cmdr. Lloyd M. Bucher that to have 
done so would have made the ship powerless in case American sea or 
air aid should have come to the Pueblo. 
The five admiral court of inquiry yesterday morning heard testimony from five crew members of the intelligence ship. It then went into a closed session to question co111munications technicians from the Pueblo. 
Goldman, a veteran of 18 years in the Navy, said he never knew until his capture the mission of the sl:ip. IIc said he thought it was simply an "oceanographic" vessel hut admitted he did "wonder" about the big section in which tl:e intelligence unit operated. 
The Pueblo steamed into Wonsan with a North Korean soldier pointing a gun at the engineroom. Goldman said he felt if there had been an accidental engine breakdown the guard would have shot him and his men. 


Finch supports clgareHe ad ban 
WASHINGTON (UPI) Welfare Secretary Robert If. Finch said yesterday he favors the Federal Communications Commission's proposed ban on televised cigarette advertising. "Yes," Finch was quoted as saying in an interview, "I think it is a good idea." 
The head of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare told a group of newsmen at a breakfast meeting that he does not agree with arguments that products are entitled to television advertising simply because they can be legally sold. 
Finch, who smokes cigarettes, said in IllS opinion he has no powers to regulate television commercials, but that as a top administrator in the health field he may be able to influence President Nixon on the subject. 
Nixon, a nonsmoker, told a news conference last week that he would not state a psoition on the FCC proposal until he had thoroughly studied the situation. 


Israeli right challenges Eshkol 
JERUSALEM (UPI) -Right wing political parties upset by 
Premier Levi Eshkol's reported willingness to negotiate control of 
some occupied Arab territories threatened yesterday to shatter the 
National Unity government that led Israel to victory in 1967 . 
One of the two right wing blocks involved filed a no confidence 
motion against the Eshkol leadership. Knesset parliament was to 
take it up today. 
The dispute, claimed by some right wing leaders to be a full 
fledged crisis, was triggered by an interview given by Eshkol to the 
American magazine Newsweek .He was quoted as saying Israel had no 
interest in holding on to the populated areas of the Jordan west 
bank, although it would demand solid security arrangements. 





PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1969 
Honor Council to Suspend all activity 
Last night the University of 

In a final letter by Vos to all Notre Dame Honor Council Hall Presidents and Rectors, the decided to suspend all 
Honor Council asks for helpadministrative activities and that 
from each of the halls in all council members taRe 
an clarifying the Council's position. 

indefinite leave of absence. 
The letter encourages "an openIn a letter addressed to the dialogue that will lead to the 

Notre Dame Community, the 
comprehension that is ne~.:essaryCouncil stated its reasons for the 
if an honor system at Notre action. It reads, "The current 

Dame is to continue." situation makes it apparent to us that the community is no longer In regards to the Council's committed to this concept." It action, Vos stated, "We're doing continued, "We are further this, because this is the only way convinced that, while most for us to make students think individuals seem to uphold and realize that this is their personal honesty, they do not decision. We're through trying to consider the honesty of others sell the honor system at Notre to be their concern.'' Dame Either it has the backing of the student body, or it
The Council feels that the doesn't have their backing." 

penalty system has failed its constructive purpose and that This was a unanimous they can't continue to levy decision of the Honor Council, penalties on the few violators and 150 letters are being sent to who are reported. The letter various people on campus. concludes asking the students participation in the Honor themselves "to carefully Concept. He also stated that the consider and to finally decide Honor Council does not "see the fate of the Honor Concept at this as the end of the Honor this University.'' 
Concept at Notre Dame, though 

In a lengthy letter to Father this possible does exist. Rather, He s burgh, U n i v e r sit y this is the only method available Vice-Presidents, and other to us that presents the department heads, Thomas J. possibility of getting the Vos, Honor Council Chairman, students re-aligned with the 



IKay Markle 
The quality of the faculty is essentially what matters in a college; when the administration tampers with that quality for reasons of dubious merit, the students arc being mocked by the institution they depend on for an "education." 

Within the past week, six members of the faculty at St. Mary's were given written notice that they would not be promoted and that at the end of the 1967-70 school year their contracts would not be renewed. The bluntness of the message was undoubt­edly a shock to people who have taught, and 

taught well, for several years. No explanations were given. They should be demanded. 
All six are the kind of professors students like to corner after class, or in their offices, or over a cup of coffee, to talk about Existentialism or Hemingway's value or the nature of God or more simply and more interestingly, what-the-heli-am-1­going-to-do-with-my-life. They are intelligent men, usually enthusiastic, commonly unorthodox. The system gets to them as much as it gets to the people they teach, because they happen to dislike inefficiency, pomposity, sloppy thinking and smugness. They are good teachers. Good teachers are supposedly what the whole business of college education is about. 
None of them are Ph.D.'s. If this is their failure, the reason why they no longer belong on the teaching staff of the college, then St. Mary's has become part of the graduate school factory system and all of those nice, cosy blurbs about SMC being 
Naivete 
I

a family of intellectuals, or whatever the phrase is, is a lie. No professor with an incisive mind and a talent for getting the efforts of that incisiveness across to a roomful of students can be termed anything but an "intellectual" and a scholar. There is no bound copy of a doctoral thesis sitting on his kitchen table (although there probably will be-ali of them are working toward their doctorates), but he thinks and makes the people around him think and that would seem to be a far better criterion for judging the quality of a professor than a solemn genuflection before a collage of degrees. 
If they are not good in the classroom they should be dismissed. But no official evaluations of them were made, no reasoned judgment that they failed professionally. The term "creative teaching" is a bit nebulous, but if it means introducing a few ideas that haven't been talked about before, asking some questions that make you want to go back to your room and read hard on the subject, they are as close to being "creative" in the classroom as a professor can be. 
They have never played very well at politics with the administration, they are unorthodox. If these reasons are sufficient to drop six members of the faculty, St. Mary's has gone nowhere at all academically in the past fifty years, in spite of its pass/fail courses and its Madeleva Scholars. It is still back in the days before the Scopes trial and in an institution of supposedly progressive education, that admission hurts. It is not something likely to attract or keep either students or faculty with the slightest taste for creativity and imagination. The students are· going to suffer the most, students who dutifully believe, with touching naivete, that what they are paying for is an education. 
stressed the lack of student basic tenets of the Concept." 



======The Mail;:======= 
Concept of Theology Editor: "I praise thee, Father, Lord of 
Of course it is smart to quib-heaven and earth, that thou ble over whether Notre Dame didst hide these things from the will be Catholic or catholic; that wise and prudent, and didst is a very important question, reveal them to the little ones.'' 
obviously-relevant and all that "I will destroy the wisdom of 
It is wise. the wise." 
"What we believe Father Why? What? How? Three 
Burtchaell is trying to do is important questions and Christ 
finally take the Baltimore answered them. Is anybody 
Catechism out of collegiate listening? 
theology." I am in favor of this, Sincerely, 
but I ask what are we going to Donald J. F~ldmann 
replace it with? It might be wise Deadly Black Flag 
to replace it with endless discus­
sion on the Pope, the pill and Editor: 
the war. The events of the past 
Christ said that no student is weekend have, I am certain, 
higher than his teacher. Maybe t r i g g ere d wonder and 
we should look to Him 'for the apprehension throughout the 
answers to the questions: why entire Notre Dame community. 
study religion or theology, how The events however, are 
to teach it and what to teach. subordinate in importance to the 
Notre Dame must find out people who have incited them 
whether religion or theology is and it is with ever increasing 
merely an academic pursuit. fascination that we have 
Christ said that words are not observed the displacement of the 
important but "doing the will of badge of democracy with the 
My Father" is. St. Paul says that emplanting of the 'black flag' of 
religion is not a "wisdom of anarchy. 
d " Ch · t d'd t ·t d The controversial film Kodak
wor s. ns I no si an 
discuss religion with the wise Ghost Poems was banned. The men and most of his friends administration wisely decided were not wise. Did Christ that until further legal separate religion into "pastoral" clarification, the film should not and "academic" as Father be shown. Driven by the spirit of Hesburgh seems to want to do at defiance and the thirst for Notre Dame? campus-wide recognition, the insurgents attacked the police seconds after they entered, even before they had the opportunity to display the search warrant. 

The anarchic spirit is on the rise at Notre Dame. And let's not decline from the facts: it is blatant anarchy when students defy constituted authority and provoke police to violent confrontation. But to have the temerity to react to such a situation with indignant reprisal because an attempt is made to uphold 'the law portends an attitude nothing short of nihilism. 
Slumber in apathy my Notre Dame brothers! Our would-be anarchists have proved that they are capable of slurring the reputation of a great university. Apathy has in the past and will in the future, destroy many more institutions of higher learning much more effectively than any radical organization has ever done. 
John Simone and Tim Westman Irresponsible Attack 
Editor: 
On Friday afternoon students of the University of Notre Dame were the victims of an irresponsible attack by members of outside law enforcement 
~-----------------------------------------------­

RUN YOUR OWN AD FOR VALENTINE'S DAY 
Sales in the Dining Halls 
Wednesday Nite 5-6 p.m. 
agencies. I think that events which occurred have been adequately publicized by the campus media, so I will not waste time elaborating on these events, except to acknowledge my presence and participation in many phases of the action. Instead, I would like to point out the significance of the police action and also the future implications which it carries. 
If we, the university community, allow this matter to pass by without taking positive action, legal or otherwise, then we are setting a dangerous precedent. To simply let the issue die or to accept a face-saving compromise is to leave ourselves wide open for similar attacks in the future. What kind of free, open community will we have if we can be used as victims for a witch hunt every time some two-bit politician is up for reelection? Obviously we must take action. We must show the county prosecutor and his like that their high-handed fascist methods are out of place in our university community. 
At the meeting which was held Sunday night it was decided to wait and see if the Student Life Council would conduct a fair investigation into Friday's events, and if it would take appropriate action. I do think we should wait a little while to see what action the SLC takes. Possibly with the help of our elected investigating committee they will see the necessity for some type of positive, uncompromising action against the forces of "law and order". 
If the SLC fails to satisfy the urgent need for action, then we have several roads open to us. We can seek legal help and 
determine whether legal action can be taken. This possibility is admittedly rather unfeasible, but still should be considered. We can formulate a petition or statement of our autonomy and submit it to the authorities in question for their reaction. It is unlikely, however, that the county authorities will respect any request or demand which asks that they refrain from invading our community. If all courses of action are found inadequate, we can take a lesson from students at Berkeley, Columbia, the University of Chicago, and other universities and from the experiences of black, poor-white, and other minority communities. We can recognize that as a community of students we are regarded by the establishment as having less rights than other citizens, simply because we don't carry a hell of a lot of weight at election time. To conteract this situation we must organize an effective defense mechanism to protect the freedom of our community. We should make it known to the county prosecutor and the other representatives of the local law that we will meet any future invasion of our community with some kind of organized confrontation. We should make it clear that we will not provoke police violence in any way, but will take appropriate action in the event of police provocation such as occurred last Friday. A definite commitment to the preservation of our autonomy is necessary to prevent a reoccurence of the past week's events. We need immediate positive action, and if the SLC does not provide it, then the community must act for itself. Ed Roickle  
I J  





