
Vol. IV, No. 11 Serving the Notre Dame and Sairll Mary's College {'ommuni~J' SEPTEMBER 30, 1969 
Slow plasterdelays dorm completion 

» 
~ 
e 
:I 
::!!: 
~ " 
::E 
» 
D 
"' 0 
0 
~ 
c. 
~ 
> 
~ 
"' 
D 
0 
Typical room dlllorder obscures new d~sk ·and color coordin­
ated rug, drapes, and day-bed in Flanner. 
SLC meets; appoints 
•

new committeemen 
by Dave Fromm the community ..." "We haven't really gotten down to the deep issues of stu­
The Student Life Council met dent life and that is what thisyesterday afternoon in the Cen­Council :nust do," McKenna
ter for Continuing Education said.
and tackled a lengthy agenda 
within an hour and a half. A motion was then passed to 
The body first concerned it­adopt the principle of the Stu­
self with the selection of a new dent Life Workshop and to auth­
Steering Committee which is re­orize distribution of a letter ex­

sponsible for agendas. Named to plaining it to all members of the 'the committee were Rich Meckle University community. 
for the students, Associate Fred Dedrick, Student BodyChairman of Economics Thomas Vice President, said that the newR. Swartz for the faculty, and campus judicial code will beAssistent Professor of Physics ready for distribution to SLCRev. James L. Shilts for the members by Thursday. He askedadministration. 
that they carefully study theAlso seh;cted was a group of code and be prepared to ask anythree to draft new guidelines for questions they might have atthe SLC. They included student next Monday's meeting. 
Guy DeSapio, Charles Allen, Professor of Metalurgical En­The Council agreed that its gineering and Materials Science, members should use disgression and Philip Faccenda, special As­in discussing the code with any­sistant to the President. The one outside the SLC between present guidelines were merely Thursday and Monday since the provisional and meant to last document is only a proposal. only a few weeks. However, they After next Monday's discus­endured all last year. sion of the code, its context will 
Student Body President Phil be released to the public. The 
McKenna, Associate Professor of University will then be given a 
Business John W. Houck, and full week to react to the code 
Father Shilts then explained the before the SLC acts on it. 
purpose of an upcoming Student "I imagine there will be some 
Life Workshop they have been objection to the code from each 
planning. They distributed at the segment of the University but I 
meeting a four page rationale for tlunk that its a very fair code for 
the workshop which included the majority of the students," 
the following passage: Dedrick said. 
". . . We must explore new Carried over from last week's ways of recognizing the talents meeting was a motion by the and utilizing the energies of the student members of the SLC to diverse human resources of the censure the Vice President for University. This might be done Student Affairs for violating a by holding open "talk-ins," by University policy on student going to halls, etc. It. will be publications. This policy as sta­done most though, by SLC ted in the University of Notre members seeking out all ideas in Dame Student Manual reads: the University community and " ...The student press should be then listening. Sort of (if we free from censorship and ad­may borrow the phrase), "Go van~e approval of copy ..." forth and listen to all persons in (Continued on page 3} 
by Jim Holsinger The official dates for the completion of Grace Hall were announced yesterday by the construction company and the University. The revised schedule moves the completion date for the new dormitory back over a week from a previous estimate. An official of Knutson Con­struction Company of St. Pauf, Minnesota, general contractors for the project, explained the delay. "The plaster isn't drying fast enough, and we can't begin painting over it until it's com­pletely dry." The residents of the uncom­pleted building who have not been allowed their rooms have been staying in other dorms causing overcrowding and a shor­tage of furniture. They were told during the summer that because the tower could not be finished by the beginning of the fall semester they would have to share rooms in older halls. It was also announced during the summer that the displaced students could occupy rooms on the first through sixth floors by October 1. The rest of the hall through the eleventh floor was supposed to be finished by October 18. Now, according to construc­tion officials, the second through fourth floors will be finished on October 6, Floors 5,6,and 7 will be ready on Octo­ber 13, floors 8 and 9 on October 20, and the tenth and eleventh story will be ready on October 24. Fr. Edgar Whelan, rector of Grace Hall, is optimistic, and believes the floors will be ready. "The contractors are pretty sure they'll be done by these projected days,"he said. "The furniture will be in by these days, and all the students affected will" be contacted by mail as to when they can move in." Fr. Whelan thinks that the hall spirit will not be diminished by all the delays and incon­veniences. Residents of the west tower were allowed to move into their rooms as they were finished, but had to put up with incon­veniences caused by the con­struction and delays. Some students didn't have wardrobes, and were forced to live from suitcases for a month. "The greatest hardship was not having any wardrobes and missing some of the other furni­ture, but they are beginning to come in now," one student said. 
Sections of the tower did not have showers or lavatory fac­ilities ready, so students had to go down to the next floor to shower. 
Elevators in the twelve story building were unreliable. 
"The elevator wasn't working and we ha d to run up and down the stairs all the time. Right now the elevator only goes up from our floor. For some reason it won't stop here going 
down," one fifth floor Grace 

resident said. Grace resident. 
The finish~d towers promise Architects for the. dormitory 
every convemence for student were Ellerbe Architects of St. 
living. Paul, Minnesota. They designed 
There are ten floors of student Grace Hall and Flanner Hall the rooms. The twelfth floor is a other high-rise residence hall. penthouse study lounge, and the Flanner and Grace are identical. first floor is reserved for conver-Although Flanner Tower was sation and entertainment rooms farther along than Grace, the 
The tower rooms are in sec-students who moved into 
tions for 25 students in two and Flanner also faced difficulties 
three room suites. resulting from unfinished 
Some residents have already sections, lack of furniture and taken advantage of the oppor-faulty elevators. tunity for communal living by Neither of the buildings has a putting five or six beds in a chapel. room and using an adjoining Since the project was in part room as a study lounge. federally funded, no real chapel 
Each room has a bay window could be built. There is a overlooking the campus, and the meditation room however, building is completely whichseatsabout60people. a i r -c 0 n d i t i 0 n e d a n d Fr. Maurice Amen, rector of soundproofed. Flanner Hall and Fr. Whelan 
There is a central kitchen and have been holding masses in the study room on every floor. conversation area of the first floor. 
By having this area in the The masses are well attended, center of every floor, residents and in spite of the size of the can get in the elevator on the dorms, a good spirit has first floor, ride up to their own developed. floor, and enter their own Landscaping is to begin this section without passing any week, and will feature sunken 
other rooms. brick conversation pits. An area 
"It hardly feels like there are has been left open between over 500 students living here. Grace and Flanner and the You really only see the guys in Memorial Library for additional your own section," said one recreation space. 

Painter gives Grace corridor the once over as the upper 
floors slowly near completion. 

Sophs elect officers with change in mind 
For treasurer, Maureen Casey
by Laura Haeford 
won over Vita DeJean, Sue Kop­ala and Maureen O'Shaughnessy. 
Susie Way, SMC Sophomore A total of 268 votes wereClass President, has announced cast. This fact, along with thethe results of last night's class large field of nominees makeselections for the remaining three Miss Way feel that the electionoffices. Teeta Bliley won the was a great success, even though
vice-presidential post by a land­some have complained of the
slide. Other candidates were Ter­absence of a forum before elec­
ry Boyle, Linda Buergler, tions.
D'Arcy Catron, and Debbie "We wanted to make it as
Dishinger. 
simple as possible for everyone

The race for secretary was to vote and for a large number
very closely run, with Kathy of people to run for the offices."
Osthemier winning over Pat 
(Continued on page 2) 

Flickinger and Jan Jakubaitis. 

SEPTEMBER 30, 1969
THE OBSERVER.
PAGE 2 




CPA prepares plans for VietNam moritorium 
by Cliff Wintrode 
The Coalition for Political Ac­
tion Sunday night outlined a 
four-pronged approach to the 
October 15th Viet Nam war 
moratorium and tabled a set of 
five proposals that were to be 
presented to the Board of Trus­
tees before their Friday meeting. 
The Coalition has divided the 
time between now and the Mor­
atorium into four distinct time 
segments, with a different set of 
activities planned for each one. 
Hall representatives have been 
selected who will be entrusted 
with the major responsibility for 
carrying out these activities on 
an individual hall and inter­
personal basis. 
The first week, which extends 
to next Monday will be one of 
"low-key and informal discus­sions." Literature will be passed out and buttons and bumper stickers will be sold. 
The Coalition hopes to reach the hall members through hall masses, hall council meetings, or any other type of formal hall activity. 
The second week which en­compasses the day but not the night before the moratorium, will be a more intensive contin­uation of the first week with an "emphasis in building a spirit of active involvement in the Mar­National Mobilization Com­mittee. a number of those out­side the CPA." 
THe second week will also include several teams of CPA representatives which will travel around campus to present their case. 
Tuesday night October 14th, the night before the mor­
atorium, will feature a speech by 
David Dellinger, one of the 

Chicago 8 and the chairman of 
the National Mobilization Com­
mitee. 

The day of the moratorium 
itself will consist of a full day of 
activities including a religious 
celebration and a rally complete 
with speakers. 
There is a possibility of stu­dents turning in and/or burning and/or sending their draft cards to the Attorney General. 
The speakers at the rally wish to go unnamed to avoid possible retribution before the moratorium. 
The CPA will present to the faculty a statement originated by the National Moratorium Committee and signed by prom­inent faculty across the nation 

MeCarragher reinstates Juggler quainted with these girls and last 
by Tim Treanor The controversy-ridden 
Juggler  will  resume  publication  
this  year  fully  staffed  and  
funded,  according  to  

Vice-President of Student Affairs Rev. Charles I. McCarragher. 
McCarragher, who had been accused of attempting to phase out the Juggler, said in an interview yesterday that "we never had any intention of per­manently halting publication of the Juggler. We merely sus­pended their use of funds for June, July, and August when they weren't publishing anyway. We had planned to discuss it again in September." 
McCarragher C()n_ten~ed that 
All organizations requesting funds from Student Government must contact the Student Body Treasurer on or before Wednes­day October 1. 
Office Hours: I -5 p.m. 

the reaction was disproportio­nate to the original move, and that the Juggler would probably have been republished regardless of the action taken by the Stu­dent Life Council at its meeting a week ago. 
The SLC, in an action taken on September 22, recommended that the Juggler "be assured of continued sponsorship by the University." 
The Juggler was involved in a controversy last spring that con­cerned the publication of a poem that contained a four­letter Anglo-Saxon verb. Accor­ding to Editor Michael Patrick O'Connor, the Juggler published another poem in place of the literature in question as a result of pressure from the Notre 
{)arne Administration. Shortlv thereafter the Juggler suhered a suspension of its summer bud­get. O'Connor charged that the budget suspension was related to the alleged censorship incident. 
Scholastic Editor Rich Moran, who employs O'Connor on his staff, said that forty-two hun­dred dollars will be reallocated to the Juggler for the year. The funds will be channeled through the Office of Student Affairs this year, but efforts will be made to see that funds are allo­cated through the College of ~rts and ~etters in the future. 
McCarragher also announced that O'Connor will remain editor of the publication this year. 
O'Connor was unavailable for comment on the whole issue. 

'ARI.£Y PR£S£NTS
F111 


A SUPER FUNCTION 
Two Bands 

"f" S ' 
endorsing the idea of the mora­torium which is a stoppage of "business as usual". 

In ad<lition to this action, the 
CPA intends to circulate a pe­
tition among Notre Dame and 
St. Mary's students asking for 
their support and requesting that 
they cut class if the University 
does not cancel them. 

The CPA's Education Com­mittee drew up the list of six proposals, that are to be pre­sented to the Board of Trustees. The proposals were intended to serve as points of discussion and not as a final draft. 
After hearing the member's comments on the proposals, further discussion was tabled un­til Thursday's night meeting. At that time, the Action and Tac­tics committees will present a possible course of action to be taken in reference to the Board meeting the next day. 
The possible course of action will be based on the premise that the Board meeting will not be open to all students. 


SMC -ND sophomores consider merging govts 
(Continued from page 1) 

she explained. "Anyway, most class members are at least ac­
year's forum was almost a total 
waste of effort, due to poor 
attendance and the requirement 
of attendance for voting." 

Going on to explain the aims 
of sophomore government this 
year, the SMC president told a 
meeting at which she had con­
ferred with her Notre Dame 
counterparts. The group e­
merged with plans for gradual 
merger of the two governments, 
starting with the initiation of a 
joint class board, to be com­
posed of 20 members from each 
school. The idea will be more 
fully explained at a meeting of 
the St. Mary's sophomore class 
tonight at 6:30 in Carroll Hall, 
Madeleva. Me_mbership on the 
board will be chosen by election 
of applicants who can submit 
petitions with 70 signatures be­
tween now and Monday. 

Class government, in re­
assessing its potential, has come 

· up with a complete divorce from student government which will allow it to serve more as a service organization for class members. Members of the class board, for example, will inform times. I feel that there is a definite need to continue, al­though a restructuring is neces­sary. Working with only three officers will give us an opportunity to experiment with a different structure. The same holds with the idea of a joint council between the classes of '72. It will be a piloting program aimed at the possibility of the eventual merging of the two schools' governments." 
Some of the projects which the cooperating governments are planning are a Biafra Week, and a Care for Vietnam service. The former will involve open semi­nars on a large scale for the entire student body, and such demonstrations as "Fast A Meal", which will mean volun­tary giving up of one evening meal in order to give the money to Biafra Relief; and "Walk a 
Mile", which will enlist the sup­port of the demonstration from South Bend merchants who will pay students to carry signs a­round announcing the particular merchants' support of the drive to relieve the situation in Biafra. Also during Biafra Week, a bene­fit performance by the First Friday will be given and a meet­ing of the student body held tothemselves of all channels and

S 1S d f 'M climax the effort. The Vietnam
ou oun 0 P,gni tcent even outlets for student proposals and service is planned so that anyone
Rock Sound of 7 alismen' projects, in the lines of suggested in the class who knows a service­
seminars, programs, or drives of man can have his name entered
$5.00 Per Couple All you can clrink any sort. Class officers, looking 
for the reception of a "Care"
Fri. October 3 Mish. Conservation Club forward to the time when they 
package financed by the class. 

BUSES PROVIDE. D can constitute a joint executive All of these plans are still very ----------------....;;.....=:::....;==---------1' board, will serve as advisors for 
tentative, pending voting by thethe time being. 
class. 1 "In recent weeks," Joe Stan-Those attending this evening's 


Charlie's 

kus ND Sophomore Class Presi­class meeting will also be in­dent commented, "the question formed of metters to be handled as to whether class government concerning the duties of con­should continue has risen several ducting such events as Sopho­more Parents Weekend, Foun­der's Day, a Senior Salute and a Freshman Tea. There may also 

STEREO 
THE OBSERVER 
be discussion of working for the An 
institution of such honoraries as Phi Beta Kappa at St. Mary's,Independent Student Newspaper perhaps by 1972.

TAPES 

NOTRE DAME 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 
1970 Seniors

ITS PEOPLE AND 
ITS LEGENDS by FRANCIS WALLACE 
This is the story of the Donald Holliday, Publisher University of Notre Dame Gaetano De Sapio, Editor 
8 TRACK 

October 18th is the last date t 
from its founding to the 
get your picture taken for th

List$6.98 
David Breen, Business manager 

present-the story of its 
1970 DOME if you have not al 
people, its traditions, its

Charlie's Price 

ready done so: Appointment
sports, its great events 
are to be made at Tompsett
and achievements, and its new expectations. 
News Editor: Glenn Corso 
Studios, 122 N. Michigan. Copy Editor: David Stauffer

1067 ............$6.95


$5.88 
Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Ann Conway, Laura Hafferd, Jeanne 
H..A.R.LXE"S 
Sweeney, Prudence Wear 
(..A~ FuH•.,I~HI\,,, 

Night Editors: David Bach, John OPEN DAILY 9 to 6 
Knorr 
11he Observer Is published dally during the college semester exceptLayout Design: Mary Chris
SAT. I LIIL to 5p.m. 

vacations by the students of the Morrison 
University of Notre Dame and st. Headlines: Jim Graif 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may 
PH. 287•7218 

be purchased for $8 from The 774 Lincoln Way East NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Copy Staff: John Di Cola, Tom Observer, Box 11, Notre DameLaw, Steve Martinek Ind., 46556. Second class postage Sports Editor: Mike Pavtin paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 


SEPTEMBER 30, 1969 THE OBSERVER. 
!liiiiiiiiiiiliiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiililiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiii.----;7~a=ppllcatlon s 
Tim MacCarry Gandhi and India Week 
"WI/HRHAS, in his leadership of the people of India, Mahatma Gandhi brought to the world's attention the philosophy and attributes of non-violent accomplishments; ... Now there.f(Jre, I, /.loyd M. A/len, Mayor ofSouth Bend, Indiana, hereby proclaim . . . India Week." "It is fitting that the Unh·ersity of Notre Dame join in celebrating the memory of this great man and the principles which guided his life." (l'rodamation by Fr. I:"dmund Jo.J'Ce) 
ln 1907 Mayor Allen sent a police officer to Newark to observe how that city dealt with ghetto uprisings. Later that summer, the same "officer" helped lead a charge of "police" (badges removed) whkh fired through the windows of a room crowded \dth unarmed but angry blacks, wounding several. Only this past summer, a Notre Dame activist who had apparently displeased the city fathers was followed, arrested ("failure to use directional signal") under a gun and police dog, scarl·hed and questioned for an hour. Right now, this mayor's armed men occupy the black ghetto, protecting rich white mens' businesses. 
Fr. Joyce is a longtime friend of a large-scale training program_for. officers to command an international force which similarly pohces black, brown and yellow people around the world (commonly called ROTC), and a hardline supporter of a polil:y promising police violence for anyone lying passively in the path of a CIA recruiter. 
Yet both men find it appropriate to issue proclamations en­
coura~ng the study and practice of ''nonriolence." ~ithout wasting 


for SLC sec. 
(Continued from page 1) 
Yet Michael Patrick O'Connor, editor of the Juggler contended that the vice-presi­dent threatened permanent can­
cellation of the Juggler if a certain four letter word was not removed from the April issue of the publication before it was printed. The entire poem in which the word appeared was subsequently struck. 
But McKenna, acting yester­day on behalf of the student members, withdrew the motion. He said that he did so "as and act of good faith toward the vice-president since he was very co-operative in the reallocation of funds for the Juggler last week." 
Earlier in the meeting Dedrick stated that he had received seven applications for the position of SLC secretary. He said that he will have interviewed all seven by next week's meeting and will at that time recommend one applicant as secretary and 
PAGE 3 
Midwest Athletic Equipment Co. 

517 N. Hill St. '232-9550 
Only 7 blocks from campus 
Converse All-Stars Hockey Sticks +Skates Adidas Track-Basketball-Soccer Shoes N.D. Jackets+ Emblems 


time wailing about "hypocrisy," "pharisaism," or "lwo-faccdness," ,­
we might seek to understand this phenomenon. It was most evident when Martin Luther King was shot in South Bend, and around the country, civic officials suddenly found his philosophy, properly twisted, to be a good doctrine to preach to blacks who threatened to avenge the murder on the system which produced it. ~hat then meant by "nonviolence" was quiescence -you sat still until your rage passed, and then sat still some more. 
•Gandhi himself foresaw this perversion of his doctrine and answered it in a way that should be heard by the likes of Allen and Joyce, and by all of us who say we arc for "peace" or go. to "relevant Masses" and then return to our inaction: 
"No doubt the non-violent way is always the best, but where that dot's not come natural~v the violent way is both necessary and honorable. Inaction here is rank cowardice and unmanlv. It must be shunned at all costs ... It is better co be violent, if the.re is violence in our hearts, than to put on the cloak of non-violence to cover impotence. Violence is any day preferable to impotence. There is hope for a violent man to become non-violent. There is no such hope 
for the impotent. " Clearly, any "nonviolence" which does not base its commitment on uncompromising and radical opposition to oppression and exploitation, as well as to violence, is not nonviolence at all. It is this phony "nonviolence" which the modern American state through its direl't representatives, like the South Bend mayor, and its proteges, like University officials, foists upon students and workers who arc thinking about changing things. If Gandhi-or Jesus Christ or Martin Luther King -were to reappear, at Notre Dame or in South Bend, with his message and actions of true ret,olutionarp nonviolence he would quickly be given fifteen t~inutes to cle~r out, cease and desist, and then be promptly put away and sealed in a tomb with new encomiums on the greatness of "nonviolence " coupled with appeals to his supporters not to overthrow th;ir oppressors by any means necessary. Such leaders and movements have a way of rising again, however Gandhi's words to the white rulers of India of the 1940's have a clear meaning for America 
1969: ' 
"Those who agree that racial inequality must be removed and yet, do nothing to fight the evil are impotent. I cannot have anything to say to such people. After all, the underdogs l"ill have to earn their own salvation ... I see coming the day u/ the rule of the poor, whether that rule be through the force ofarms or of non-Piolence." 
In short, unless the white student is ready to reject his privileges as a white in a racist society, as a student when working youth are sent off to war, and as an aspiring functionary in a system which oppresses workers at home and nations abroad -until he can say, "I am a revolutionary" -the likes of Gandhi, King and Christ will be distant and misunderstood figures to him. Like the rich young man of the Gospel, he will eventually walk away to his place of comfort, albeit sadly. People like Joyce and Allen are even more to be pitied, for they do not just misunderstand, but actively distort the message, and thus keep themselves even farther fron understanding. Proclama­tions notwithstanding. 
Nonviolence must always be more revolutionary than the violent path of change, involving far more sacrifice, effort and confronta­tion. ~ords like "love" and "peace" -the joy of turning to nonviolence -will be mere expressions of vacuous sentimentality unless at the same time we recognize and accept the deep and terrible commitment to consecrate our lives to resisting exploitation, racism, and militarism, and take up the cross of suffering that Christ left us as his most precious gift. Throughout history, this commit­ment has meant death and imprisonment to those who have accepted it -from the early Christians to modern draft refuscrs ­and it can hardly be claimed that it will mean anything less to those who accept it now, unless the world is less evil or we are less a part of it. 


"Student insurance <'nrollment forms must be completed by those desiring coverage by October 6, I 969. Contact the insurance representative in room 2 (downstairs) in the 

ja~n~o~t~h£e~r~as~a~lt~e~rn~a~t~e:.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 


CAPTAIN) HOW MUCH 
~ON6ER BEI=ORE WE. REACH PL.'iMOUTH1 

JUST AS SOON AS 1 CAN DIAL .!.. AND THEN 

Get outta town without leaving campus. The lowest long distance rates are in effect every school night after 7 p.m. and all day Saturdays and Sundays. 


@Indiana Bell 
Use your long distance calling number. Save time. Dial your own calls. 

PAGE 4 

7118 
•


Ruggers record double w1n 
Although it may not have 
been such a successful weeken·d 
for the Notre Dame football 
team in Lafayette, the boys 
wearing the blue and gold of the 
Fighting Irish and playing the 
forerunner of modern day foot­
ball, rugby, returned in triumph 
from John Carroll College in 
Cleveland with a convincing 18-0 
win in their season-opening con­
test. 
Steve Coleman led the Irish romp by scoring a pair of "trys," good for six points, and was followed in the scoring parade by Sal Bommarito, Bob Mona­han, Skip Gilmartin, and Tom Hurlehy, each of whom tallied a 
try. 

Both of Coleman's scores were in the first half, one com­ing on a run of 45 yards after taking a lateral from a tackled teammate and the other after a 
30 yard dash to the goal. Bom­marito hulled over a pair of John Carroll defenders in notching his try, which gave Notre Dame a 9-0 halftime lead. 
The Notre Dame "B" team 
Tom Hurlehy sprinted to the continued their winning ways of Irish's fourth score early in the previous seasons, downing the second half and Gilmartin and John Carroll "B" s_quad, 9-5. 
Monahan added insurance scores Mark Rubelis, Gene Tidgewell,­later in the session. Gilmartin and Chuck Leggero each regis­went 35 yards for his try and 
tered a try for the Irish "B's". Monahan chalked up three 
The win improved the "B" points when he fell on a blocked 
team's record to 45 wins and 2 kick in the end zone. 
losses over a four year period. 
Irish skippers sail to second In Wisconsin's autumn regatta 
Wisconsin (4th), and Oshkosh,The Notre Dame Sailing team Wis. (5th).
retained Midwest recognition by Team captain Richie Doyleplacing second in the Gargan­swept A Division with five first tuan Regatta hosted by the Uni­
places and two seconds, achie­versity of Wisconsin at Madison, 
ving the low point skipper tro­Wis. Formidable opposition by 
phy. In B Division, Steve Clots the University of Michigan pro­
of Michigan emerged as low­duced a narrow margin of vic­
point skipper to give Michigan tory over the Irish. A total of 
the lead in the regatta. Other sixteen schools competed in this 
skippers competing for Notre the largest regatta of the season, 
Dame were Bill McElroy, Mike including: Ohio Wesleyan (3rd), 
Morrissey and Chuck Taylor. 
Saturday it was all Purdue: (top) Mike Phipps flips over Fred Swendsen, (middle) Randy Cooper soars over Mike McCoy, (bottom) Bill Yanchar and Alex Davis stop Andy Huff. 


The Irish hooters fought an 
uphill battle last Saturday 
against the Purdue Boilermakers 
and fell on the short end of a 2-0 
score at Lafayette. This was the 
season opener for ND while it 
was Purdue's second outing. 
Purdue's first score came in the initial stanza when the Irish were caught in a defensive mix-up. The score remained the same throughout the following two periods as the Irish tried to put pressure on an inexperienced Boilermaker goalie with only sporadic success. During this interval Notre Dame goalie Maury Brick played standout with 

a number of sensational saves. The men from Lafayette put the game away in the fourth quarter with their second shot that got by Brie. 
On the afternoon the Irish managed to get off twenty-three shots, while Brie turned back eighteen attempts. 
Next home game for the Notre Dame squad is this Satur­day against Toledo behind Stepan Center at 10:30 a.m. If Captain Greg Abrams' prediction ( l 0-2) is to come true, the Irish must finish 10-1 against a sched­
ule  which  contains  only  one  
admitted  "pushover"-Valpa­ 
raiso.  




