
Vol. IV, No. 29 Serving the Notre Dame and Sa{nt M_m-y's College ('ommunity FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1969 
Students oppose flag procedure 
By Thomas Bornholdt John Stephens and the Band by tremendous negative Dame community should be their uniforms. 
repercussions among the TV represented, including blacks, Fr. McCarragher felt that the
Messrs. Bob O'Brien and James A small group of faculty and audience and the fans in the Asiatics, girl students, and the situation was reaching an
Phillips.

students are protesting the use Fr. McCarragher was there to stadium. other Notre Dame Students. He impasse, and called an end to the of only uniformed ROTC chair the meeting and Messrs. Mr. Estabrook countered by was willing to have ROTC meeting. Since the group was were
students at the flag raising Ryan and Estabrook arguing that the total Notre students take part but not in (continued on page 7) ceremonies before home football present to explain their group's games. viewpoint. Professor Carl Estabrook Jr. The discussion became heated 
Organization expenditures
and Off-Campus Commissioner quickly. Both Fr. McCarragher Bernie Ryan approached Rev. and Col. Lavin maintained Charles McCarragher C.S.C., relatively noncommittal Vice President of Student positions. 
explained more completely
Affairs, concerning the flag Col. Lavin expressed the raising ceremony. opinion that the military was the By Jim Graif Administration has already cut by the Free University will cost Fr. McCarragher replied to servant of the community and In an interview with the down its requests. Right now them $750 for speakers,them that it was imposible for would abide by its wishes. Observer , Student Government 
their budget calls for: salaries for publicity, and other expenses.
anything to be done in time for Professor O'Brien and Mr. Treasurer John Coughlin secretaries -$6,700, postage -The Afro-American Societythe USC game, but asked them Phillips thought that explained the reasons behind $1350, long distance telephone plans to sponser several social to present their view at a non-military students would be budget requests presented to the 
calls -$1900, printing -$500, educational events with the meeting with representatives of ignorant of the proper protocal Student Senate by various 
and office expenses -$1730, a $2,490 it has asked for in an the ROTC, the Athletic in the raising of the flag, and organizations. lie was quick to total of $13,180, as compared to effort to promote black culture 
Department, and the Band on would inadvertently cause a point out that these requests are and activities. The
$15,830 originally requested. black 
Tuesday afternoon. certain amount of disrespect to being reevaluated at the present The Human Affairs operational expenses for these This meeting took place at the flag. time and consequently some of 
Commission, which requested events would be about $1 ,600. 
4:00 p.m. Tuesday with ROTC Col. Stephens thought that the figures published in the $4,800, concerns itself with The remainder of the Society'srepresented by Col. John Lavin, the introduction of non-military Observer have been or will be recruitment of black students request would be salary for a the Athletic Department by Col. students would cause changed. 
from large cities. Members incur secretary.
Student Government 
expenses when traveling to cities The Research and • • such as Los Angeles or Development Commission, Washington D.C. The whose aim is to improve the
FAO Sec. predicts CriSIS 
com mission is expecting educational process, will incur $10,000 from the university, so its $1,290 debt from printing
In the two decades between

Addeke II. Boerma, Director of F AO's positive approach to that the money from Student and mailing. Most of this is in General of the Food and Agri­1965 and 1985, the population the problem in the form of the Government is merely that the form of pamphlets and 
culture Organization (FAO) gave of the developing countries -not Indicative World Plan for 
body's contribution to black surveys put out by the a lecture at ten o'clock this including mainland China -is agricultural development -the recruitment. Tied in with the commission. morning in the Engineering likely to increase by two-thirds result of four years intensive Human Affairs Commission are The Hall Presidents Council 
Auditorium as part of a seven from 1.5 billion to 2.5 billion. In research and investigation which the Students Against Racism. will use nearly all of the $2,200day visit to the United States. these same countries nearly 70 will be presented to member Their expenses will consist of it asked for to sponser the spring lie stated that the situation in per cent of the people depend nations at the organization's $200 for speakers, $160 for social event An TostaJ. 
developing countries contains for their livelihood upon I 5th conference session in movies such as "No Vietnamese The Amateur Radio Club has "all the seeds of violence" and agriculture, which generated November. 
Ever Called Me Nigger", $150 an unusual request. It seems that that the world is confronted more than half their economic lie described the Indicative for publicity, a $250 debt, pluswith a race against time to im­activities and accounted for World Plan as an unprecedented office expenses. until this year the club had prove the prospects of these more than 40 per cent of their effort to both analyze the main Most of the Academic Affairs operated in the Fieldhouse. 
countries. exports. issues which will face world Commission expenses will be However, with that building'sBocrma emphasized that he "The future of the developing agriculture in the 1970's and accounted for by the Free future in doubt, the club has was not trying to be melodrama­world is thus largely a question 
early 1980's and to suggest the University. A large part of the been moved to Holy Cross Hall. 
tic. "But," he point~d out, of what it can do about its most effective ways in which $2,350 requested goes to Now the club is in need of an "While many wise and well­agriculture," Boerma said. 
they can be resolved at national publishing its catalogue twice a antenna which costs $800 and intentioned people sit calmly de­He then gave the major details (continued on page 6) year. The Academic Reform some building materials to fix upliberating in their elegant council Conference which is sponsored the room they've been assigned.
chambers, pressures are building up in the developing countries which could lead to violence." 
Synder predicts disturbance crackdown
The Director General warned against complacency in rich 
campus, local and state level,
countries over the world food By T.C. Treanor 
Snyder contended, would there 
problem. "Now that the threat Indiana State Treasurer John be any need of Federal 
of famine in India has faded dlli ~-!15
Snyder last night foresaw intervention. 
-~· g&2?'§::. ~'f
from the front pages of the "punitive Federal resolutions" if Snyder also addressed himself •.,.,.ro£ ' •.t. .. . 
newspapers; now that we arc ••u . .
campus disturbances continue to the nature of our problemssurrounded by superabundant before a meeting of the Notre with Eastern Europe and the 
wheal crops, dairy surpluses and Dame Young Republicans. USSR. "We are headed towards the promise -or threat -of more Snyder, a two-term a military confrontation with to come; there seems to be a 
incumbant Republican, prefaced the USSR in your lifetime," he growing feeling in the richer a his
description of recent said, "Unless there is a majorcountries that the world food 
Eastern Eurasian travels with change in our relationship."problem has been liquidated and 
some remarks on the general Calling Russia "a very sad I that they need no longer trouble state of University dissent. 
place," he said the Soviet Union 
themselves greatly about the "At Vincennes (where Snyder 
"doesn't discriminate according
mat tcr. 
is a member of the Board of 

to race-they discriminate
"Nothing could be further 
Trustees) we have basically a against everyone." from the truth," he emphasized. family relationship. Even in "They have no problem with
At least half of the people in the 
larger colleges, the University 

blacks," he went on to say,
developing countries arc either has taken the place of the "simply because they have nohungry or malnourished, Bocrma parent. Students resent that, and 
blacks. In fact, the only blacks I 
said. The reason for their hunger 
resultantly they assert 

did see were Americans studying
or malnutrition is quite simply themselves." 
at their Universities. The courses
that they arc very poor. 
Snyder said that he taught there didn't appear to be"It is poverty on quite a "absolutely and malterably" the same courses that arc taughtdifferent scale from that which opposed Federal legislation to here at Notre Dame. Theyexists in affluent societies like deal with campus disturbances; looked to me more like courses
the U nitcd States," he 
"either direct action or in subtrafuge and sabatoge." 
continued. "In the developing withholding of Federal funds." According to Snyder, Russiancountries poverty is the rule, not He said that he would prefer and Eastern European childrenthe exception. It is the general 
disruptions be worked out by are taught to "fear and hate condition of life for whole the University first; and at the Westerners" in their elementary peoples --their normal daily state and local level if the schools. "If any of their 
Jim Hunt

surroundings stretching out University attempts prove elementary schools were in the ahead in time beyond the limits fruitless. Only if there was a United States, the school l:!oard John Snyder speaking at last night's YR meeting. of hope." complete breakdown on the 
(continued on page 6) 


FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24,1969
PAGE 2 



CPA votes down protest

The Coalition for Politi~.:al 
· 
Action agreed at a meetmg last night not to demonstrate against 
S.I. Hayawaka, President of San Francisco State University, when he speaks next month at St. 
Mary's College for the Sign,' 
S y m b o 1 , a n d Rea 1it y 
Conference. 
The decision not to protest Hayakawa's visit was reached after Brian Mcinerney a member of the C.P_A. action committee explained that Hayakawa would be speaking as a semanticist. 
The action committee also submitted recommendations for 
C.P.A. action in the November moratorium. 
Mcinerney explained that besides rallying in Washington,
HELD OVER for 

3rd Hilarious Week 

Blacks fail to appear at meeting 


The three blacks charged with participation in last weekend's Alumni incident failed to appear at Wednesday's meeting with Deanof Students James L. Riehle, CSC, and Director of Security Arthur N_ Pears. 

CAPTAIN) HOW ~UCH .I,ON6ef<. 8Et=ORE We REACH PL.\'MOUTH1 


\.lUST AS SOON ASl CAN DIAL -1 ANDlHEN 

Get outta town without leaving campus. The lowest long distance rates are in effect every school night after 7 p.m. and all day Saturdays and Sundays. 
@ Indiana Bell 
Use your long distance calling number. Save time. Dial your own calls. 
plans should be formulated for 
r T · th s th B d 
ac lVl tes 1.n e ou ~n com~untty. The action committee r~commended that the CP_-A. dtsc~s the war ~n_d other tssues v.:1th loc~l CIVIC groups and umons dunng the moratorium_ He said no campus demonstration was planned. 
Peter Collins reported that students desiring to go to the Washington rally could go by Cardinal Lines for $24 round trip. 
Mcinerney emphasized that the CPA's participation in the Washington moratorium should be educational rather than just "adventursome." 
The action committee also d t•
1 . 
e xp ame pre para wns as a 
response to companies recruiting on campus. By petitions the group will seek to engage the companies' representatives in open forum discussion. 
Mcinerney mentioned that it was rumored that the CJ.A.might recruit on campus and that there were "strong feelings" to demonstrate against them. I 
Ed Roikle gave the financial statement. CPA funds and the moratorium funds are ledgered separately. Presently the C.P_A. has $28.66, the moratorium fund has $189.03, to be used for the November activities. 

Mr. Pears said yesterday that ht: "had hoped they would come to explain their side" of the Satur­day morning fight with junior athlete Matt Connelly. 
Since Connelly has dropped civil charges against the blacks, the case will be handled solely by the University_ The matter will be channeled through the Dean of Students and the Cam­pus Judicial Board, according to Pears. 

Catch it from the balcony. 
Opens October 22 at the Shubert Theater 
Good seats available for all performances, including Wednesday matinees. WEEKDAYS: 8:30p.m., Mezz. & Bale., $8, $6, $5­WED. MAT. 2:00p.m., Orch., $7.50, $6.50, $5.50, Mezz.,$6.50, $4.50­Balc. $4.50, $3.50. For Ticket Information call641-2250. 
Previews Oct. 11-0ct. 21st $1.00 off all regular prices. Make check or money order payable to Shubert Theater, 22 W. Monroe St., Chicago, Illinois 60603. Please enclose a stamped self-addressed envelope. 

clothe you (with synthetics) wash your clothes (with detergents) · brash your teeth (with nylon) paint your room (with resins) carpet your home (with polystyrene) wrap your lunch (with waxpaper) by using petrochemicals made from petroleum hydrocarbons. 
There's more to oil than oil. More to a moil company than you N!alize. Find out how much more. And how yov.can ~on tribute to an expand­mg soctety through a growth company hke our$. In research, m.anufacti.tring, or administ~tton and sales. We'll be on campus: OCTOBER 27, 1961 
An equal opportunity employer 


FRIDAY OCTOBER 1969 
PAGE 3 







r-----------------, 
L 
I  F  H  I  
I  WHEN YOU BUY A WHOPPER!  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  !  
I  Offer good only with this coupon at  I  
I  Burger King, SOl Dixieway Nort~ offer expires Monday the 27th  I.J  

c;JJanyhave moved-· 
but the ~ulists 

8tay-On... 

The Paulists arrived on the West Side of New York City in 1858. In 1895 they moved into San Francisco's China­town and into the fringes of Chicago's Loop in 1904. They're still there. Times change. Neighborhoods change. Sometimes they go up. Sometimes they go down­but through it all the Paulist stays. As long as there arc people to be served the Paulist will be there. The Paulist may be in the same old place but he con· stantly does neiV things. That's one of the characteristics of the Paulist order: using their own individual talents in new ways to mel!t the needs of a fast·changing world in the col­leges ... in communications ... in the ghettos. 
If you have given some thought to becoming a Priest, write for an illustrated hrochurc and a copy of our recent Renewal Chapter Guidelines. Write to: 
Vocation Director 
cpaulist h ,.,p

'Pat e~ 
Room 200 415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24,1969

THE OBSERVER
PAGE 4 




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 

GA-ETANO DE SAPIO, Editor DONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Publisher 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

Flag -raising 
Off campus commissiOner Bernie Ryan is one of the 
leaders of an attempt to change the flag raising ceremonies 
at the beginning of Notre Dame football games. We think 
that they are very meaningful and appropriate in their 
present form. 
Ryan contends that the present ceremonies which consist of the Student Body President handing the flag to a ROTC color guard should be changed to include other members of the community beside the military. He argues that the use of ROTC personel conveys the impression that they are the only individuals with true patriotic feeling. 
By no stretch of the imagination can we see where anyone could reach that conclusion nor have we heard of many who labor under that illusion nov.r. 
Just because the color guard is composed of all men does it symbolize the fact that women are not patriotic? Would the fact that it is composed of students lead people to be­lieve that the faculty and administration here lack a pat­riotic feeling? Because the Alumni are not represented does anyone really believe that they are not patriotic? 
We believe that Ryan and the other members of his group are dreaming up a problem that doesn't exist. This campus has been bred too long on the philosophy that everyone has to be in on anything in order for it to be valid and meaningful. We don't think that every action that occurs on this campus must be governed by the tri-partite mania that seems to be engulfing college campuses around the country. 
The ceremony is traditional more than anything else. The flag is a symbol of the American nation. Defense of the flag has always been construed as symbolic of defense of the principles upon which this nation was founded. Traditionally the military has been responsible for defend­ing those principles both home and abroad. The military has stood, then, as a symbolic defender of the flag. 
Color guards have always been made up of the military -not to depict the fact that they are more patriotic than any other segment of America but simply because they are symbolic of our national commitment to defend that flag. 
The military in America for the most part has been comprised mostly of non-career officers. Most of the men were either draftees or volunteers in their country's service. For that reason to argue that a color guard be comprised of both military and non-military men would suggest that differiation should be made between the two groups. We don't think that that is a sound impression to convey. 
David Breen, Business Manager 
6il~no~~o~~o~i~::· ~~~:gr. 
David Stauffer, Copy Editor Cliff Wintrode, Associate Editor Ann Conway, Associate Editor Laura Haferd, Associate Editor Jeanne Sweeney, Associate Editor Prudence Wear, Associate Editor Mary Beth Crimmins, Layout Editor 
Phil Bosco, Photo Editor Tom Ehrbar, Features Editor Mike Pavlin, Sports Editor Layout 
'Marilyn Becker Mike Bridgeman
Mary Ellen Burke
Susie Bury 
Mary Clark Chuck Darst Patty Lipscomb 
I. M e s
Ch
ar •e Y r
Margie Rurak Kathy Saville Cindy Serve Greg Vesander Dan Shaw 
Secretaries Ginger Updike 
Night Editors Sports Staff 
Dave Lammers, Monday Don Kennedy Dave Bach, Tuesday Jack Schaefer John Knorr, Tuesday Terry Shields 
Cliff Wintrode, Wednesday J" Donaldson
•m
Dave Stauffer, Thursday Pfl
Tim umPhil Bosco, Friday 
Photographers Don Ruane 
J1m Hunt Layout Design 
John Kissel 
Mike Murph\' Tom Hamilton 
Doug Madel Mary Chris Morrison 
Cartoonists Marty Tieber 
Phil Barth 
Greta Anderson 
Bob Lusardi 
Shaun Reynolds
Neil Rosini Copy Staff Business Staff Jim Donaldson. 
Ad layout and design:Tom Gustafson 
Jim FlanaganTom Law Steve Dollinger Dave McCarthy Barbara Duensing 
Larry Pino Ad salesmen: 
John Rudolf Tom Laffey 
Phil Schatz Tim Passaro 



--Letters-­
"America's Algeria" 
Editor: 

1oseph Caroll's plaintive letter from Vietnam is disturbing but nevertheless understandable. The author rightly feels that it is senseless to continue to waste soldiers' lives in what is increas­ingly being recognized as a lost cause. But he is wrong to blame our defeat on anti-militarism and to believe that it has become "patent national policy." Though his accusation of betray­al by the home front is reminis­cent of that expressed by French veterans of the first Indochina war, there is far less, if any, justification for it. Dienbienphu was caused ultimately by the 
monstrous indifference of the nation (though stupid generals were also directly responsible). But Vietnam has long had the loyal and even enthusiastic sup­port of the American home front; only after eight years of war has a majority of the public come to concede that the inter­vention may have been a mis­take. America has not gone soft: twenty million veterans and their organizations, a huge mili­tary establishment and its associ­ated industries, an anti-com­munist ideology and an imperial foreign policy all ensure that in the future the United States will grow more, not less, militarist. 
Soldier Carroll is disillusioned with the politicians. In this too he sounds like those embittered legionaires who defeated in 1954 went on to fight an even more atrocious war in Algeria and "betrayed" again tried to over-News Staff 
~~;~s:~ney !~~~~et~se ns~a~~r~:~J~~t~~~~e~ 
David Fromm and trained for the Vietnam 
T.C. Treanor type of "limited war" than were Thomas Bornholdt his French predecessors, who Brother Pat Carney likewise believed that war is a Paul Gallagher trial of strength rather than of John DiCola will. But 1 also think he is Jim Graif unprofessional, for as Indochina, 
Mark Walbran Bill Carter Algeria, and our Vietnam all Jim Holsinger demonstrate, the career soldier is Marty Graham content to fight such terrible, Steve Hoffman' unwinnable, unlosable wars 
John Shreves indefinitely. War is his trade, and Dave Lammers only politicians can make him Joe Cassini forego its career opportunities.
Tim Westman No, Caroll is a typical Ameri-Mary Kay Davy
Connie Byrne can, and therefore unfit for serv­what America needs now is a President with the courage of a DeGaulle to liquidate "Amer­ica's Algeria". 
Howard J. Dooley Dept. of History 
Required courses Editor: I am heartened to see that the B S P is finally getting some­place in a staid, midwestern uni­versity such as this, but once again, someone will impose ab­solutes on us in the form of making one of the Black Culture courses a requirement for grad­uation. It is obvious that this would have good effects on this university, particularly in light of the middle class Catholicity that characterizes the great majority of students here and also in light of the Georgia Tech game last year and the blatant reactions of a large number of people in the stands to the black demonstration. However, the whole thrust of the academic movement at Notre Dame has been towards less structuralization and fewer required courses. It would be a complete inanity to add another "required" course at the present time. The only way to do this without alienating the great majority of the stutent body would be first to at least halve the philosophy-theology require­ments. I would also like to make one of the Non-Violence courses a requirement for graduation, but you must not force people to do things that will possibly be or even are good for them, as the Catholic Church is finding out with Friday abstinence and com­pulsory Mass. A forced "cross-cultural ex­change" will only create more polarization and alienation than presently exists, particularly for those students more polarization and alienation than presently ex­ists, particularly for those students who presently have only four or five electives in four years. Before we struct­uralize beyond the point of in­sanity, let u:; consider the pre­sent value of other "required" courses. Sincerely, David S. 1ones, Class '70 

Richard Smith Jim Shoemaker, Circulation Manager versity of Notre Dame, their adminis-Frank Weigard Frank Ditillo, Circulation in the backyards of the world. trations, faculty or student 
Karen Miller ing our imperial missi01~. Viet-.----------------t Janine Fast nam is no aberration; there will 
The opinions in the editorials, 

Fred Voglewede be many Vietnams in the future. news analyses, and columns of The Mark Nelson Vietnam is only our first imper-Observer are solely those of the John Simone · 1 Wh t th t d
1a war. a e coun ry nee s authors and editors of The Observer, 
even more than a professional and do not necessarily reflect the 
views of St. Mary's College, the Uni-army is a Foreign Legion to fight 

~~-N~M_c_y_E_r_d_m_a_n~______R_a_n_d_y_Y_o_u_n_g_______T_o_m_K_n_o_le_~_s_u_b_sc_r_iP_ti_o_m_______~ Butfue~arepos~warcon~ms;~b=o=d=i~=-~---------~ 
Beethoven and Raphael O'Toole, budding counterparts 
illustrious namesakes, are leaving Notre Dame ... 
The premature departure of the pair of talented. frosh fr~m the 
Notre Oame campus less than four weeks alter their arnval IS tluc. 
they say, "to the lack of interest in the arts a rountl here." . 
"It's lonely around here," explains Beethoven, the younger ol lht: 
gifted brothers. "We wanted to meet some creative peoplt:, but we 
ditln't know where to go." he said. "Everyone we met was ctlhcr 
drunk or on his way to play football." 
"And there is just no place to work", Raphael addetl while 
pointing out to an Observer reporter a pile of canvasses anti clusters of 
painting materials strewn about his room. "If I wasn't too proud I 
would paint on the ceiling," he continued. Others have 
tlone it and matle fortunes", said the novice oiler. 
"Where do you find all the poets, musicians, and other artists at 
Notre Dame?", the disillusionetl brothers asked in unison. 
The announcement of the O'Tooles' decision came ironically only 
hours before last Friday night's meeting of the newly establishetl 
University Arts Council (UAC), a group formed to head off 
problems just like these. 

"We're interested in providing a place where people with creative 
interests can get together, talk over their ideas, exhibit or read their 
works, and experiment with various creative forms that might 
intercst them," explains senior Tom Kronk, chairman of the arts 
group. "People with creative potential are leaving Notre Dame or are just not coming", said Kronk. "We have to place a higher priority on the arts on campus to change this trend", he said. The UAC hopes to make members of theND-SMC community aware that the campus is a depressed area in regards to the arts and to help begin a movement to improve the situation, said Kronk. As for improving the situation, the group intends to sponsor a, wide range of cultural activities --many of which would give non-AB majors a chance to work in some form of the arts that appeals to them -· and to coordinate the activities sponsored by various university departments associated with the creative arts, said 
the chairman. 


Tom Ehrbar 
The baloon 
The wind tugs on my clothes. The sun, hidden and obscure, turns brilliant as I float past a cloud. Intuitively, though I know not why, I want to laugh. I can't. 
My left hand is cupped against my brow, saving me from the glare of the sun; my right hand grips a frail string. The string in my right hand points upward several feet where it becomes a large oval balloon. The balloon, now a harsh red, lofts me higher and higher into the sky. The !anti below I no longer discern as my own. 
And higl1er. Occassionally the balloon, carried by whim or destiny, drifts across the face of the distant sun, and casts a curved blackness against my flopping, puppet-body. The blackness descends on me like a death figure. Still, a secret, defiant urge to laugh mounts within me. 
And higher. Compelling me to drink huge, rapid gulps of air. The balloon, persistently following its purpose is driv­en and sustained, I think, by a force apart from both myself and the balloon. I have now been rising two days. 
Two days. All because my People were against the war. 
We were against the war for all the reasons that intelligent, worthy people were against the war. We did not think a large, important country should intimi­date smaller, less important ones. It did not, to us, seem fair. We thought the Commissioner, whether through folly or malice, had committed a series of mis­
takes. And that the mistakes had grown 
and swollen so as to plague the Commis­
sioner. And that to cover for his original 
mistakes he invented new, more subtle 
mistakes; and that to cover for these 
mistakes he had concocted newer, even 
more elaborate mistakes. And so even­
tually (some claim he is now mad) the 
Commissioner forgot what his original 
mistakes were, and why he had made 
them. But my People had not forgotten. 
(I have now just emerged from the 
highest cloud within sight. There is no­
thing but pure, frozen blue above me.) 
My People did not believe the Com­
missioner -instead, they believed in the 
Books. And when they informed the 
Commissioner of the truths of the Books 
the Commissioner told them that he had 
written the Books. 
My People also believed the lessons-of­history, and after they confronted the Commissioner on these matters, after they barraged him with thousands upon thousands of lessons-of-history from every civilization of every period, the Commissioner sat back, smiled, and said "Very nice, only now, I am history." 
So my People had no recourse. 
So we organizcd the Parade. In the Parade we all held balloons, and all walked silently one behind another. Of­ficials sent by the Commissioner were there to study us, contain us if necessary. (Contain our balloons?) The officials did not hold balloons; but ominously tucked into their belts were long pointed needles. 

So we held the strings of our balloons a little tighter, as if to secure the safety of our precious, yet hopelessly vulnerable possessions. 
The balloons, you see, were rot empty -each contained a message-of-peace each, you see, was symbolic. Inside my balloon, scribbled on a jagged square of cardboard was the word "Love". And so I carried my balloon and followed the figure ahead of me, and the Parade, deliberately, tensely, moved forward. 
At the end of the Parade, prompted by a signal in the sky, we were all cued to release our balloons. It was all to take place within an instant of a second. Simultaneously countless balloons of every color and form, each bearing a message-of-peace were to rise in an over-. whelming spectacle of love and brother­hood. This, if anything, would impress 
the Commissioner. This, if anything, would end the war. This, if anything, would bring peace. 
And so when the signal was given all prm:eeded perfe~tty. Up went the bal­loons. Only mine went up much slower than all the rest. My balloon, you see, carried me with it. I had forgotten (watching some official as he toyed with his needle) to let go. And before the frightening horror of the situation had imprinted itself upon my feeble mind I was far too high to consider, even for a moment, letting go. 
The array of color above me soon dispersed and I was tugged along by the 
Practically speaking this 

would mean supporting informal 
theater or musical groups, en­
couraging students interested in 
a hobby such as photography or 
metal-working, setting up stu­
dios for painting, sculpturing 
and the like, and providing an 
outlet for those that would like 
to read poetry or prose to a 
critical audience, said members 
of the UAC. 
For all these things, the coun­

cil will need space, said Kronk. 
The UAC is 100% behind Dr. 
Fern's proposal to convert the 
Fieldhouse into a cultural center, 
he said. Fern's $1,82,5,000 pro­
posal reportl'd in the October 6 
issue of the Ohsen•er would con­
vert the Fieldhouse, scheduled for demolition later this month into a cultural center to be generally available to the student body. 
"However, we don't want people to think that the life of the UAC depends on our success at getting the Fieldhouse," Kronk emphasized. "We think that with support the proposal might be accepted," he con­tinued. "But if it isn't the U AC will begin looking fo other ways of implementing our ideas." 
fate and flippancy of my balloon which now, two days hence, has floated me to my position far above the clouds, far above the Commissioner, far above all. 
The scarcity of air turns my head giddy, and I began to laugh, at first just a faint chuckle, now erupting into a fit of loud co.ntemptuous noise. And mockingly I sneer down on all that is beneath me. 
And mockini!IY do I yell out "Love" .. 
lllllllllllllllfflllllllfllllllllllllllllllll 
Star spangled bummer 
Sojt Persuasion (Bossa Nova) 
Dave 1/uezv Gretta A ndcr.wn Barb Treis 
Bljfand Shirley Galbraith 
Paul McCartney 
Mike Ugino 
Vince l:'agan Wayne Hsseo and Jeff Noonan 
(8:45--12:00) 
$.25 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
ASPARAGUS TIPS 

The amazing tip of this week (dedicated to my loyal fans T. Henehan & P. Clinton), a deck reminiscent of Father Flanigan's Boys' Town, is He Ain't Heavy, He's My Brother. This not so heavy, but brisk, slick, dynamite bouncer with pleasant, teen-oriented lyrics should bring the 
Hallies  to  the  front  lines  of  the  chart  
con tenders.  
jim e brogan  

r 
PAGE 6 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24,1969
711B OBSERI1ER. 
INTERESTED IN THE STUDY OF LAW? 




Proposals submitted to change ceremony 
A representative of the 
(continued from page 1) alternatives. The third proposal would felt that there was more at stake Washington University School 
The first proposal is for the invite a number of non-military in this question than the mere of Law (St. Louis) will be on 
unable to reach a decision, Fr. entire discussion of the flag students equal to the number of ceremony. campus October 27 to talk to 
McCarragher is submitting the raising ceremony be dropped military students, provided that "It is a question of the role of students planning to enter 
matter to the Vice Presidents' and rediscussed at a later time in the ROTC people do not wear the military in the Notre Dame law school upon graduation, 
Council. He has composed four view of a change in the 
uniforms. This is what was asked community," related Bernie or thinking about it. Make 
questions concerning the issue 

ceremony at home next by Messrs. Estabrook and Ryan. Ryan in an interview. He said appointments by signing up 
and at the Vice Presidents' 

September against Purdue. The fourth and last proposal that the present ceremony raised on lists outside Room l 01 
Council meeting will ask each 

The second alternative is to is that no students other than the question, "Does ROTC have O'Shaughnessy 
member to vote for one of the 

have an equal number of ROTC students and the Band be a monopoly on patriotism?" He. 
f------------.......1-------------.., non-military students and ROTC a part of the ceremony due to its felt that it didn't, and the students, but the ROTC students dignity, timing, and traditional ceremony should reflect this. would be in uniform for the and historical background. Professor Carl Estabrook felt 
that the ceremony changes stoodceremony. Messrs. Ryan and Estabrook

OPENS TONIGHT!!! 
a good chance of being ratified. 


WE BOMBED 


More food production necessary 
(continued [rom page 1) The Indicative World Plan en­
methods of factory farming such visages two phases in tackling as exist in the United States. 
IN NEW HAVEN 
and international levels. 
the problem. To bridge the im­

by Joseph Heller 

"The Indicative World Plan 
"The main conclusion which I mediate gap, it lays emphasis on

estimates that by 1985 the 
derive from the Indicative World intensive breeding of animals

demand for food in the 
Plan is that we are in a racewith a fast reproductive rate

developing countries is going to 
against time," Mr. Boerma said.
such as pigs, where acceptable,

be almost two and one half 
"I would not claim that the plan 

8:30P.M. Students $1.50 
and poultry. The huge annual

times what it was in 1962, and 
is complete or perfect. It is theincrease in production of be­

that two-thirds of this increase
Washington Hall Call 283-7054 
first time, however, that sotween five and ten per cent

will be due to population growth 
wide-ranging a study has everrequired can, however, be

alone," the Director General 
been produced and, whateverachieved only through modernsaid. 
else it shows, it shows we have 


entered a new age -an age in which time can no longer be measured by the leisurely pas­sage of the seasons, but by out ability to deal with the accelera­tion and the complexity of events." AnnualDessert to be held tomorrow The Annual International Stu­dent Dessert will be held tomor­row night at 7:30 in the North Dining hall. Entertainment this year will be provided by the Chinese Association, Indiana Associa­tion, Pan-American Club, and various other foreign students. All foreign students are invit­ed to attend.  
Char Broiled FAMILIES Steaks and WELCOME Hamburgers 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. Pre-Law Society Washington and Lee (Lexington, Va.) -Octo­ber 27; New York Univer­sity -October 29; Univer­sity of Cincinnati -Octo­ber 31. Representatives from these shcools will be holding inter­views in room 154 of the Center for Continuing Educa­tion on the dates indicated above. Sign up for an ap­pointment outside room 101 0 'Shaughnessy.  
Wan ted: Virgins for sacrifice at the Feast of Bacchus. In teres ted young ladies of repute please send resume of qualifications to: The High Priest Box 210 ND,Ind.  

-

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1969 




New members sought 
The S.L.C. Dining Hall Com­mission Chairman Rick Grawe­meyer has announced immediate openings in positions on the Committee. At present, there are two permanent positions un­filled in the commission. One of the permanent positions is that of Commission secretary. Grawe­meyer hopes that at least one of the permanent positions might be given to a St. Mary's student, to ascertain the effect of the present system on the St. Mary's student body. 
Applications or queries may be directed to Grawemeyer, whose campus address is 817 Grace and phone is 6891 , or to Joe Botti, 25 Sorin College, phone number 8449. 
The focus of the commission, this year, will be directed at communication bet ween the 
gestions. In the planning stages are a number of surveys and 
utilization of different depart­
ments (Business, Art, Architec­ture) for implementation of improvements. 
Present corre~pondence may be directed to the following: Rick Grawemeyer -817 Grace -· 6891, 
Joe Botti -24 Sorin-8449, 
Pete Boyd -354 Farley, 
Ed Burt -237 Walsh -8093, 
Tom Duffy -433 Zahm ­1991, John Zipperich -211 Stan­ford -6294. 


Treasurer comments on communist education 
(continued from page 1) 
would be run out of town," Snyder said. 
Snyder had this to say about education in general in Communist Eurasian countries: 
"They have taught the people to read, but there are no books. They have taught the people to write, but they have no paper or pens. The system is a failure." 
Snyder was highly critical of our foreign policy. "Our foreign policy is so wrong it's almost criminal. We cannot buy friends, or send troops into countries and win them over that way. 
"Russia is an athletic country -and they I o ve machinery. Perhaps the greatest thing we could do is send Mario Andretti or A.J. Foyt over to every major city in the USSR with an auto show. 
"We must religiously align ourselves with Russia before we can truly come together." 
The 53-year-old Snyder is considered a major contender for the Republican nomination to oppose Vance Hartke in the 1970 Indiana Senatorial Race . 

.-------------­
Food Service and the student body. A Iiason service will be established within the dining halls shortly after mid-terms for the purpose of acquiring all stu­dent commentary on the present status of the food service, com­

plaints, compliments, and sug-1----·----------------------------------1 
THE OBS£RVER. 
PAGE 7 

OBS£RV£R Staff Meeting 
If you cannot attend 
For all personnel contact Guy DeSapio
Today at 4:3 0. This includes layout, proofreading, news, sports, night editors, copy staff and everyone else excluding members of the business staff 


NOTRE DAME MINIATURES 
A Special Gift-Reserved for Spe,.1·al People
"" 


..The Ideal Christmas Gift.. 
Miniature Notr~ Dame rings are available in a wide choice of jeweled or plain styl~s. These rmgs. ~ay be presented as engagement tokens to the girl of your cho1c.e, or to a fem1m~e .memb.er of your family with whom you wish to share the 
prest1ge of your association w1th the University. 
~he miniat~re ring is identical with the official ring design, only more delicate in 1ts modulation and construction. 
Wedding bands to wear with the miniatures can be especially contoured to fit as an ensemble. These plain and contoured bands are illustrated above. 
* * * 

ORDER YOUR MINIATURE RING FROM 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Notre Dame Indiana 
There's still time to come with us on 


A VOYAGE TO ATLANTIS 
Friday, October 31 10pm -2am featuring The New Colony Six and The Magnificent Seven 
In the fleldhouse of the ACC 
For those of you who didn't enter the Homecoming '69 lottery for one reason or another, do not despair! 


ANNOUNCING a general sale of Homecoming Bids 
TONIGHT OCT 24 7-9 PM MONDAY OCT 27 Fiesta Lounge TUESDAY OCT 28 LaFortune Student Center 
All bids not already won by lottery will be sold on a frrst come basis at ten ($10) dollars per bid (same as lottery price). Tickets for the Homecoming '69 Buffet, to be held on the concourse of the ACC beginning at 8:30p.m. preceding the Ball, will also be sold at six ($6) dollars per couple. 
a service of your STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION 
THE OBSERIIER.____:_:::_ ______ FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24,1969
PAGE 8 


NO foe for improving Green Wave 
There is one thing you can say 3 5-17 and Boston College only for sure about Tulane-the Green 28-24. Then the Wave came Wave has definitely improved within a whisker of upsetting this year. Following an opening highly regarded Florida. thrashing by Georgia 35-0, Tu­Last eek before a Pitt lane bowed to West Virginia 
************************************ 


JIM MURRAY 
Baseball's answer to Hope and Crosby 
"************************************ 
© 1969, Los A noeles Times 
Headline-Seattle Reported Moving to Milwaukee in 19 70. 
We bring you now the one-act fantasy entitled, "One More For The Road." The scene is the headquarters of Baseball, the office of the Franchise Traffic Control Commissioner. As we look in, his phone is ringing. He picks it up. 
Commissioner: "Hello, Franchise Traffic Control here. This is the commissioner speaking. Arc we moving the Seattle franchise?Wait a minute, let me look at my board. Yes. We arc. Where?Well, where would you like it?What?Well, I mean, where are you calling from? Puyallup?Let me see here. Yes. It'll be coming through there any minute. Just hang a sing, I'll wave it down. Make an offer for it. They'll listen. What?Well, it cost $10 million last year but that money has been divvied up aroung the league. They paid 175 grand for a lot of out-of-work ball players. You can get it at a markdown, say, $2 million. What! You're just calling to protest the moving?You wouldn't give more than a nir.kel for it?(Pause) Well ... what am I doing! I'm weighing your offer! Will that be cash or check'Put it in writing and you'll hear from us in case Milwaukee is closed." Hangs up. 
The commissioner turns to his secretary. "Get me New York," he 
snaps. A moment later, his phone lights up. He grabs it. 
Commissioner: "Hello, Mike? Listen, Mike, we're moving the Yankees. What?Don't scream at me, Mike! I don't set policy around here. I just put wheels under it. Where to?Well, just a minute, the writing is a bit smudged. It's either Des Moines or Dubuque. Anyway, it's in Iowa. Tell you what. When you get there, just say, 'Joe sent me.' What do you mean, you'd rather go to Milwaukee~ Mike, you know our policy. We don't send established, sound franchises to Milwaukee. We send expansion ones, sick ones. We let Milwaukee fatten 'em up, put a solid base under 'em, then we ship 'em down South for a big fat soft drink contract. Milwaukee's just sort of our feeding pen. They LIKE baseball up there, don't ask me why. Now, get on the road and call me from Council Bluffs." Hangs up. 
The phone rings. He picks it up, scowls into it, then begins to turn purple with rage. Rock?Wait a minute! What year is this?l969 right? OK, then the Cardinals are in Little Rock this year. What! The Kansas City Royals are there, too! Quigby! Dammit! Can't you guys get anything right! The Royals are not due there till 1974. What do y_ou do?Wait a minute. I got an offer here from a guy in Puyallup, a f1rm cash offer. What?No, I don't know where the hell it is. Waht difference would THAT make'M'e got II franchises on the road now and YOU'RE going to quibble over geography'!' Bangs the phone down in the cradel. It rings promptly. He gets unctuous. 
Commissioner: "Yes, Mr. O'Malley. What?Mr. Stoneham wants to 
move back to New York?Shea Stadium'Mr. O'Malley, PLEASE! Not 
till after they have the tikertape parade for the Mets! I mean, how 
would it look if we transfcred the franchise halfway between Battery 
Park and City Hall in open convertibles! What'DF COURSE, I know 
who I'm talking to!(Sighs) All right, Mr. O'Malley, as soon as we get 
a bus free." Hangs up. Pushes the buzzer. 
Commissioner: "Miss Cast?Call the dispatcher and tell him to put a red light on the board for the Mcts and move them out. Which direction?! don't know. Just get them going. I'll make some calls. Bring me an Atlas. Also an aspirin. Just put a tag on them marked 'Occupant' or say, 'If lost, please call the office of Baseball, Franchise Traffic Control Division.' " Releases buzzer. Phone rings. Picks it up, begins to sob. 
Commissioner: "Whaddaya mean, there's a six-bus pileup on the Pennsylvania Turnpike of colliding franchises! And that we've caused a traffic jam on the New York Thruway! There must be a mistake. The Boston Red Sox?What do they think they're doing?! don't even have a requisition for them. In fact, I need that bus. I got 26 Mets mad as wet hens with confetti in their hair waiting right now at a loading dock in Queens." hangs up. Puts his head in his hands and begins to sob. Picks up phone. Dials. Gets an answer. 
Commissioner: "Commissioner of Baseball? This is Franchise 
Traffic Control. Listen! This job is too much for one man. Or one 
computer. I.m just going to put the whole game on the Pennsylvania 
Central and see where it gets off. We'll draw lots. We've worn out 
1,700 busses, I0,000 tires, and I got one whole fleet back in repair. I 
got the San Diego franchise going by mule train, and the Cardinals 
going West by covered wagon. I got three franchises marooned in a 
storm in the Yukon, and one of them on the way to Hawaii is 
unreported and presumed down in the pacific. Get yourself a new 
boy, commissioner. I haven't been home in weeks. I've been having 
sandwiches sent in for months. I'm gonna get a job clocking gypsy 
caravans or desert nomads." 
crowd hoping to witness the third straight win, Tulane roared back from a 22-0 deficit to win 26-22. Saturday night, Tulane returns to New Orleans after three weeks on the road to battle Notre Dame. The game is scheduled to be seen of TV at 8:30PM. 
The Wave offense relics pri­marily on passing, primarily from sophomore quarterback Rusty Lachaussee to either split end Maxie LeBlanc or wingback Steve Barrios. The 6-1, 185 lb. Lachaussee has completed 45 passes for 7 58 yards and three touchdowns. His percentage, however, is a rather dismal .417 and he has had eight passes intercepted. LeBlanc and Barrios have each caught 13 passes, the former for 321 yards (a fine 
24.7 average) and the latter for 240 yards. 
Hampered by a small line both on offense and defense, Tulane has been harried by their opponants. Lachaussee has a net of -22 yards rushing, while the Wave have averaged only 3.1 yards per carry. Duke Chappuis (53 carries-275 yards) and 1im Batey (36-243) are the best run­ners. 

Line-ups 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE 
SE Tom Gatewood 
LT Jim Reilly 
LG Larry DiNardo 
C Mike Oriard 
RG Gary Kos 
RT Terry Brennan 
TE Dewey Poskon 
LHB Ed Ziegler 
RHB Denny Allan 
FB Bill Barz QB Joe Theismann 

NOTRE DAME DEFENSE 
LE Walt Patulski 
LT Mike McCoy 
RT Mike Kadish 
RE Fred Swendsen 
LOLB Tim Kelly 

LILB Larry Schumacher 
RILB Bob Olson 
ROLB John Raterman 
LHB John Gasser 
RHB Ralph Stepaniak 
SA Clarence Ellis 
TULANE OFFENSE 
SE Maxie LeBlanc 
WT Bart Graves 
WG Allen Wilkenfield 
C Chip DeWitt 
SG Mike Walls 
ST Steve Boyd 
TE Sid Jones 
OB Rusty Lachaussee 
TB Duke Chappuis 
FB David Richard 
WB Steve Barrios 
TULANE DEFENSE 
LE Joe Young 
LT Mike Walker 
RT Bob Waldron 
RE Bryan Duck 
LOLB Joel Henderson 
LILB Rick Kingrea 
RI LB Ray Hester 
ROLB John Onofrio 
LHB Jimmy Yarter 
RHB Joe Bullard 
SAF Paul Ellis 

Defensively, Tulane has given bers have shots at all-time re­up an average of 367.6 yards per cords for a single season. Quart­game, 208.4 on the ground and erback Joe Theismann has a 
154.2 through the air. When the • chance to break the marks for Green Wave is forced to punt, pass attempts, completions inter­however, they have one of the ceptions, percentage, yards country's finest in Ken Sanders. gained,TD passes, total offensive On 33 punts, he has averaged an plays, and total offensive yards. incredible 45.2 yards, and has Split end Tom Gatewood has a been credited with one punt of shot at three pass receiving re­
68 yards. 
Coach Jim Pittman will face cord. He had an "off" day last an Irish squad which was drop-week as he received special cov­ped to 12th place in both polls erage. Tight end Dewey Poskon after last week's 14-14 tie with played a tremendous game, USC. All starters are healthy, showing a fine pair of hands and although Mike Kadish's leg is a tough resistance to crunching still sore. The pass defense fig-tackles. ures to get a workout Saturday Denney Allan and Bill Barz night, but if soph Clarence Ellis have outside chances to break plays like he did against South-the marks for kickoff returns ern Cal, there'll be no trouble. and touchdowns scored. Ellis has Ellis received credit for four that PBU record in range, while Passes-Broken-Up, giving him Bob Olson is halfway to a new seven for the season. The record mark for tackles made. One re­is eleven. His jarring tackles dis-cord has already been tied. comforted several of Jimmy Against Southern Cal, Scott Jones' receivers. Mike McCoy, Hempel kicked his 26th con­
UP! 's Midwest Lineman of the secutive P.A.T.(21 this year). Week, and Bob Olson lead a Notre Dame has had it all over defense which has allowed a Tulane in the six-game series mere 2.4 yards per rush. which was played from 1944 
Although the Irish offense through 1950 with 1948 off. suffered through a poor game The Irish have won all six games, versus the Trojans, several mem-two by shut-outs. 
..................................................................... 







1~!RISH EYE 
By Mike Pavlin, sports editor 
,...••......•............................................•........••.. 
Ara, Ruggers invade the South 
My point spread percentage went over the .500 mark for the first time all year last week. Also rather interesting, the ND tie was the first one to happen among the games I've picked this year. Maybe its the weather, but I've picked a couple of upsets this week. 
Notre Dame over Tulane--by 21. The football game will be bad 
enough, but the Ruggers in New Orleans? God help the city. 
Northwestern over Purdue--by I. If Mike Adamle runs like he did 
last week and if Purdue fumbles like they did against Iowa .... 
LSU over Auburn-by I 0. Both have ferocious defenses, the Tigers 
from Lousiana are just a bit better. 
UCLA over Stanford-by 7. After narrowly bowing to Purdue and 
USC, Stanford faces what may be the best team in the West. 
Iowa over Michigan State--by 3. The Spartans had their "up" 
week against Michigan and Iowa impressed me with their passing 
against Purdue. 
Houston over Mississippi-by 7. Here's the chance for the Cougars 
to make up for early season humiliations. This one is in the Dome. 
Kansas State over Oklahoma-by I. K-State is at home and this is 
the year they step up from the bottom of the Big Eight. 
Penn State over Ohio University-by 7. This one may look easy, 
but funny things have been known to happen when teams venture 
against that team from Athens, Ohio. 
USC over Georgia Tech--by I 0. John McKay had better crack his 
whip this week because Tech's sophomores almost upset Auburn. 
Delaware over Temple-by 17. Last year's score was 50-27. 
Miami over TCU-by 14. 
Texas A & M over Baylor-by 3. 
SMU over Texas Tech-by 7. 
Arizona over New Mexico-by 6. 
California over Washington State--by I 0. 
Air Force over Colorado State--by 14. 
Washington over Oregon--by I 0. 
Oregon State over Utah-by 13. 
Missouri over Colorado--by I 0. 
Kansas over Iowa State-by 13. 
Nebraska over Oklahoma State--by 14. 
Michigan over Minnesota--by 14. 
Boston College over Army-by I 0. 
West Virginia over Pitt-by 13. 
Indiana over Wisconsin--by 17. 
Last Week': Winners, Won 21 Lost 4 Tied I .833 Point Spreads, Won 14 Lost II .560 
Season: Winners, Won 93 Lost 32 Tied I .744 Point Spreads, Won 52 Lost 74 .413 



