
VOL. IV, No. 32 Serving the Notre Dame and Sa{nt M_ary ·.~ College ('ommuni~l' WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1969 
Finance Committee slashes budget 

The Fmance Conum.ttee of Notre Dame-SMC mental health the Student Senate wJII seek group and four business clubs. approval of a $58,750 budget;-In the Sophomore Literary 
$24,750 less than last years Festival's case, this would mean total-from the ~otre Dame Stu-a cut of $5000 from last year dent Senate tomght. . . and, in effect, its collapse, said 
The budget, covenng a pcnod Bob Ilall, chairman of the festi­from last September I to August val. According to Hall the Soph­31, 1970, would reduc.e .the stu-omore Literarv Festival planners dent government deficit from normally have only about over $50,000 to $13,.106.79 by $15,000 to work with alto-the end of t.he academic year. gether. A cutback of a third 
The pr~Jected budget shows would completely change its cutbacks tn nearly every area form. unde~ student government spon-"I see no way that we will be s~rs~1p and wo_uld com~letely able to call what is left the ~hmm.a.te allocat~on~ to eight of Sophomore Literary Festival," Its aff1hate orgamzatJOns. said Hall. "It will be nothing like 
To be completely dropped what it has been in the past. from the government's budget if Famous and talented contem­the senate adopts the proposal in porary authors cannot be ex­its present form would be the pected to visit Notre Dame for Sophomore Literary Festival. nothing or close to it," he WSND the Blue Circle, the added. 
' 'Iii!' 

by Steve Hoffman 
Referring again to the budget, McKenna emphasized that the The Student Senate convened Finance Committee would only briefly last evening, postponing present recommendations, and until tonight any effort to act that the Senate alone is 
upon budgets recommendations empowered to have the final say proposed by the Finance 
in their passage. In addition, one Committee. Recommendations of the Senate standinghearings will continue into a committees may interpose special session on Thursday recommendations of its own evening also. dealing with budgetary requests. Although the Senate was 
In another development,previously scheduled to levy preceding tonight's discussion onfinal approval or disapproval on budget proposals, Rev. Theodorethe budget last night, the M. Hesburgh, President of theFinance Committee was unable University, will appear before

to officially release its proposals the Senate and answer questions
until late yesterday afternoon, concerning the inception of the
Student Body President Phil pro posed University Forum,VIc Kenna explained to the Stay Senator Rich Hunter
:)enators. As a result, there was announced. The Forum, as
insufficient time to print copies conceived of by Fr. Hesburgh, is
of the budget requests fcc designed to concern itself with
Senate consideration. 
dialogue and increased McKenna also revealed that, communication within the Notre while the final report of the Dame community, and the 
h u d get proposals had been Senate will question Fr. drafted, unanimous consent to Hesburgh on the methods of its the recommendations was implementation. lacking, and compromises among Rich Hunter, as Chairman of the members were in order. the Student Affairs Commission, 
For WSND the cutback would 

amount to "a huge strain on 
sales". commented Kathy 
Martin, Sales Manager for the student station. W~ND has never been helped much financially by the student government she continued. "Our feeling w;s that since the AM station serves the students continually, that we a!­so deserved something. It is a real disappointment." 
Others hardest hit by the pro­jected cutbacks are the Acade­mic Commission of the Student Union and the Observer. The Commission's request for $20,000 has been reduced to $15,000 on the budget proposal. The Observer, requesting $1 2 000 will be offered $9,000. 
The Contemporary Arts Festival is also slated to feel the 
then outlined his Committee report on the Forum. He disclosed resolutions that the Senate adopt the Forum as proposed by Fr. Hesburgh, that it should review the operation of the Forum in May, 1970, and that it should decide participation in the Forum for the school year 1970-71 at the end of the present school year. 
Although Hunter moved that the Forum be adopted bv the Senate, he also moved· that debate of the Forum be postponed until next Tuesday evening, at which time additional recommendations, mandates, and election procedures would he considered and discussed in depth. 
In other business, Stay 
Senator  John  Zimmerman  
informed  the  Senate  that  two  
Senators  would  be  forthwith  
allowed  to  attend  Faculty  

Senate meetings. Zimmerman identified Ed McCartin from Holy Cross and Dave Johnson from Zahm as the nominees, and they were unanimously approved hy the Senate body. 
budget squeeze. The CAF asked . . . 
for $6,382 but would receive ~gamst ~acl~m committees, the 
only $2,000 according to the Free Umverslty an.d Course a~d 
f i n a n c e c o m m i t tee ~eacher Evaluatw~ comm.ls­
recommendations. ~Ions,. the Student Unwn Adnun­
The Hall Presidents Council, lstratton and the Student Senate 
asking for $2,200 would receive are roughly met by the proposal. 
$300. "None of it was extra," The ~uman A.ffairs and f.tu?­
commented Tom Suddes, Hall ents Agamst Racism account will 
Presidents Council Chairman be allocated $5000 by the assent 
upon hearing the news late of the Student .senate. One 
Tuesday night. Of the $2,200 thousand. dollars will ~e reserved 
requested approximately $1 ,800 for the I.mpl~mentatton of the 
is intended for An Tostal Free Umversity program and 
~0 ~0

weekend in the spring, said $1000 will the Scholastic 
Suddes. for the publication of ~he Course 
"It's a student weekend," he and Teacher Evaluation book-
went on. "It's for the students lets. . 
and we felt the student The busmess clubs set to be 
government would help us with erased from ~he student g~>Vern­
it. I guess we'll have to find ment budget mclude the Fmance 
a n o t h e r s o u r c e 0 f Club, the Finance Forum, and 
income." the· Marketing Club. They had 
Only the requests of the Hu-asked for a combined total of 
man Affairs and Students $3,035. 
Several issues covered in Hesburgh interview 
by Mark W alb ran nam War Hesburgh said that he 
was neither a military expert nor 
At a press conference yester­an expert on the Far East. Rut, 
day afternoon in the Continuing he said, "There's not much ra­
Education Center Notre Dame tionale in staying there for 
president Father Theodore Hes­ever." lie explained that he 
burgh said that effective means thought the time had come for 
of school desegregation are being the South Vietnamese to "stand 
by-passed for less effective on their own feet." He added 
means. Hesburgh said so long as however, that the United States 
civil rights laws remain ineffec­should continue to support the 
tive blacks will remain suspect South Vietnamese outside of 
of the administration. supplying them with military 
The Civil Rights Commission, personnel. 
Hesburgh explained, is a non­Hesburgh said that the Presi­
political group whose task is to dent's Advisory Committee on 
gather facts and suggest effective an All Volunteer Army would 
means of attaining civil rights. meet in Washington November 
Hesburgh said the Commission's 12 and will then present its 
criticism of the Nixon adminis­alternatives to the present dmft 
tration's "go-slow" policy proba­system. He said that many peo­
bly irritated Attorney General ple were under the impression 
Mitchell and others. He added that the draft system was the 
that the Commission had to normal thing in America. But, he 
goad three previous administra­explained, for 90% of our his­
tions as well. tory the military functioned ' 
The Civil Rights Commission, with the draft system. 
said Hesburgh, "can act like a When queried about ROTC 
conscience to the government." Hesburgh said nationwide enroll­
Hesburgh is Chairman of the ment in such programs had de­
Civil Rights Commission. creased because of anti-ROTC 
Hesburgh gave no announce­sentiment. At Notre Dame, he ments to the pressmen prior to said, enrollment in ROTC was the hour of questioning. lies­somewhat smaller than last burgh fielded queries ranging year's hut he did not have the from the War in Vietnam to exact figure. parietal hours. Although he ap­Regarding the university's peared tired his presentation was $800,000 budget deficit, Hes­vibrant. burgh said more aid could possi­
When asked to comment on bly come from corporations and recent statements about people the state government. He said involved in the Moratorium Day the greatest possibility was that by Vice-President Spiro Agnew the federal government might and others liesburgh said that in assist higher education, seeing it the nation at large Moratorium as an investment for better citi­participants were a "mixed bag." zens. He said that there were many liesburgh said the Black middle-aged participants. Al­Studies Program at Notre Dame though those involved were pre­was "practically achieved." dominantly the young, he said, Right now the plans must meet they were not just extremists. the approval of the College 
Heshurgh added that demon­Council and the Academic Coun­strations as those of the Mora­cil. He said the Black Studies torium Day "can be useful." Program would be in effect next 
lleshurgh said that the univer­semester or next fall "at the sity's policy for future Morator­latest." ium Days would be decided by. When asked ahout plans for Father John Walsh, Vice­
the University Forum, lleshurgh President for Academic Affairs, 
said that it would be held some and the faculty. 
time in November. lie noted When asked about the Viet-(mntinued on pagl' 3) 

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1969
\ ;f2 ·~ ______THE_ OBSERJJER. 
, McKenna reports on important student issue 
by Don Ruane "When you elect someone ... you elect him for his insights and to be your leader and not just to do everything the majority wills all the time, is the philosophy I have tried to follow since I was elected'., said SG President Phil McKenna as he commented on his administration and some of the issues it has faced. One of the problems McKenna sees is the lack of understanding among the students in regard to what his administration has done. For this reason "Project Reach" has been instituted. "Project Reach" attempts to "reach down into he basic needs of students" by having members of the student government visit the halls to explain and answer questions on 

Model U.N. 
positions taken by the student government. After an initial visit by McKenna or Fred Dedrich S B V i c e -P r e s i d e n t : representatives will be available for hall council, floor or section meetings on request. McKenna: urges the hall officers to make periodic requests in order to maintain an effective communication. 
In regard to the Board of Trustees, McKenna said that ttu: students will now havd representatives on the Student Affairs Committee. The number 
of  representatives  and  their  
power  has  not  yet  beert  
determined.  There  are  eight  

trustees on the committee and McKenna intends to propose that there be eight students, both graduate and undergraduate, placed on the committee. McKenna expressed optimism in the body when he stated, "I'm thinking it will probably be at least as effective as the University Forum and perhaps more so because it is a smaller body and it's a body that 

Where every pi&za's a cheap thrill 1738·Lincoln Highway East -· 2307 Easti Edison ·-South ·Bend 1400 Na anee-Elkhart 

exists for student affairs and there aren't five elements all coming together to talk." He is also hopeful that suggestions and explanations will then be carried to the trustees. 
McKenna has reservations about the University Forum because it is basically a discussion session and he feels that talk is not a substitute for positive action. McKenna also said that the presence of five elements on the forum would limit the number of possil-,le topics to be discussed. 
The progress of his administration has satisfied McKenna. He listed five basic reasons for this success: 
I) The personnel. McKenna 

described his cabinet as "the student members are better hardest working and most prepared to present things to the dedicated people I have seen." body. After the budget and the ., 2) His workers have organized University Forum are voted the filing and cataloging system upon, the Student Senate will which will be useful as reference meet twice a month and have for his admil')istration and also committee meetings at least for future administrations. once a week. Most of the senate 
3) The efforts to make a work will be done in the committment to recruiting committees and this will minority students. "demand a lot more research 
4) Plans to bring the off and less fame for the senators." camp us student into "the McKenna feels that it is not frameworkofNotreDame." up to him to evaluate his 
S) Efforts in academic reform . administration but it is for the and anti-racism. ·students to decide when it is 
Although frustrated at times over. He is satisfied so far and with the SLC, McKenna thinks intends to make the best of the that this body will be more next five months to give the effective this year because it will student body an administration be meeting every week and the that will be representative. 
GSU invites MBA, Law students 
by Bro. Patrick Carney 
Two new organizations have been invited to seat representa­tives on the Graduate Student Union according to Jim King, acting president of the newly formed organization. 
King stated that both the law students and M.B.A. candidates were issued separate invitations because, although they are grad­uate students, they come under different deans. All of the gradu­ate students who have joined the organization up to this point are 
Sadie Is coming! 

members of the "Graduate School" of which Fr. Beichner is the Dean. 
When asked his general im­pressions of the progress of GSU to date, King replied that he feels "it is progressing very favorably." He added that he hopes for "full participation within two weeks." 
At the group's last meeting, 21 out of 30 departments were represented by over 70 dele­gates. That session saw Constitu­tion, Procedures and Credentials, Agenda, Social, and Finance Committees formed. 
Copies of the first draft of the group's constitution have been distributed to the graduate stu­dents. Among other details, the document calls for every depart­ment to be represented by at 
TOMORROW 
8:30PM. WASHINGTON HALL Students $1.50 
Call 284-4141 or 283-7054 
least one voting member with 
the larger departments being al­lowed one delegate for every· twenty grad students. Presently, all departments are in the pro­cess of determining who will serve in this capacity. 
In the meantime, King, a sociology major, has been meet­ing with Fr. Hesburgh and Stu­dent Body President Phil McKenna concerning representa­tion of GSU on the proposed University Forum and the Stu­dent Affairs Committee. Current plans are to seat two members on each of these boards. 
The role of the GSU in these 
two bodies will be among the topics to be discussed at the group's next meeting on Friday, October 31. Mr. King would also like to see some discussion on the proposal to have two separate Ph.D. degrees--one for teaching and the other for re­search. 
As he spoke of the coming meeting, the acting president stressed that GSU meetings are open to all graduate students aUhough only the official repre­sentatives may vote. He would like to see as many as possible attend Friday's meeting which will be held at noon in the Library Lounge. 
SMOKEY.. ROBINSON 
and the 
MIRACLES 

Athletic and Convocation Center 

Sat. Nov.l SPM 
TONIGHT IN THE DINING HALLS TICKETS ON SALE $2, $4, $5 
Presented by Student Union Social Commission and Athletic and Convocation Center 

... 

~rict bond restrict~ns, part~u~rly where truvel was concerned. ~no~t~e~x~e~n~lp~t~f~ro~r~n~~~w~e~n~f~o~rc~e~-~~~~~~~~~~~F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
And the trial was pushed forward without regard for a stand~ request for postponement which would have allowed the chief defense attorney, Charles Garry, to recover from a serious operation before the trial began. 
The list could go on and on but for lack of space. The issue is clear, however, that the Administration wants a conviction no 
Should you drink beer 
matter what, and Wilson, Hoffman, and others arc making sure they get it. 
The trial of the Fight is a political trial, and it must be fought politically. Eight people arc being offered to the maw of a frightened public, and in return Nixon will receive some much-needed public 
straight from the bottle? 
applause. People must show that this kind of quasi-legal political repression will not work. If the Administration succeeds in fri~htenin~ away dissent and dissenters with this type of show, then how far away is Big Brother and all his buddies? 
If you're on a blanket party of trouble and expense to let 
Support the Cospiracy Eight on November First in Chicago. 
or something, carrying along a Budweiser create its own bub­
To dedicate Flanner Sunday 
glass is pretty clumsy. But bles with the natural carbona­
Flanner Tower, one of the Dedication activities will 
when it's convenient, we think tion of Beechwood Ageing. So 
new high-rise residence halls at begin with a dinner Saturday 
the University of Notre Dame, (Nov. I) at 7 p.m. in the Morris 
it's a shame not to use one. you really can't blame us for 
will be dedicated Sunday (Nov. Inn. A 10 a.m. Memorial Mass 
Keeping Budweiser to get it at its
for Thomas Flanner, with the

2). The I !-story structure is a gift Rev. Theodore M. llesburgh, 
inside the bottle or 

C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, Chicago, Ill., ami a memorial to of Mrs. John L. Kellogg of as principal celebrant, will be 
can is missing half Just for fun, pour your 
said in Flanner Tower Chapel onher son, Thomas U. Flanner III, 

the fun. next four or five bot­
Sunday. The blessing of the 1965. llis widow, Kathyrn, will a Chicago attorney who died in building and tours will follow 
Those tiny bubbles tles of Bud® into a 
the Mass. A dedication luncheon A native of Battle Creek, at 12:30 p.m. in the Presidents's 
attend the campus ceremonies. 
glass. If you don't 
Mich., Mrs. Kellogg attended the Lounge of the Memorial Library 
agree that the extra
Battle Creek Conservatory of will complete the weekend 
Music and the University of ceremonies. 
to do with taste and taste, clarity and 
Michigan. Following the death~~-~~~~~~-------l 
Most beers have carbonation aroma make a big difference,
of her first husband, Thomas U. 
Complete Stereo component sys­Flanner II, she married John L. 
tems. Buy yours 3t -· 

pumped in mechanically. Not go back to the bottle. 
Kellogg, a former president of 
Lafayette R~;dio 

Budweiser. We go to a barrel We won't say another word. 
the Kellogg Company and son of 
Electronics

its founder, W.K. Kellogg. John 
7 31 South Michigan

L. Kellogg died in 1952. South Bend, Indiana 
The Observer is published daily 
during the college semester except 
PLt"Ash' Rh"TURN 

Budweise&is the King ofBeers®
vacations by the students of the 
MY BOOKS!! 

University of Notre Dame and St. 
Chest of drawers "mistaker Mary's College. Subscriptions may 
(But you know that.)
ly" taken from summer_ 

be purchased for $8 from The 
storage. Return books · kee.p

Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, 
drawers. 

ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS • NEWARK • LOS ANGELES • TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS
Ind., 46556. Second class postage 
Call Larry 288-8664

paid. Notre Dame Ind. 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1969 
Ed Roickle 
The big show 

Way back last November, Richard Nixon was elected President ,)f the United States on what was generally considered 'to be a "law and order" campaign platform. Now we all know what law and order means--keep those filthy longhaired creatures off our T.V. screens, please don't let the Blacks burn down suburbia, and shades of Don Hynes, keep our red, white, and blue toilet bowl clean and shining. 
Now it's put up or shut up time for Mr. Nixon, and he's treating us all to the worst example of kangaroo justice since Huey Newton was sentenced to ten years in prison on the basis of contradictory testimony and conjecture. The Administration badly needed to make an example of someone, so why not pick eight leaders of dissenting groups and screw them all at once. Beautiful. Take three leaders of National Mobilization, the Acting Chairman of the Black Panthers, a student, the founder of SDS, and two celebrated founders of the Youth International Party, throw them all together, charge them with violation of a questionable law, build a case of fabricated evidence and everything will be o.k. again. Not only do you entertain the fr~ htened majority with a witch-burning, but you also remove eight very persistent thorns from your side. 
Of wurse, the right personnel have to be chosen to produce this extravaganza. The prosecuting attorney, Assistant Attorney General Will Wilson, has been 4uoted extensively on his attitudes towards such people as the Eight: 
"I think if you could get all of them in the penitentiary, you'd stop it. The ringleaders, I'm talking about." "In the area of balancing free speech against public order, my heavy leaning would be on the side of public order." "I'd call something a riot sooner than maybe other people might. Don't you think that's the attitude generally of this Administration?" Good boy, Will. 
But there has been one slipup. The only judge available to the Administration for the show, was a seventy-some year old tyrant who does more harm to the show than good. Not used to having such goings-on in his courtroom, Judge Julius Hoffman is destroying any semblance of legality which might have remained. His repressive methods of procedure are so obvious as to ruin the whole effect. 
For example, during the first two weeks of the trial, six attornies were cited for contempt, and two were jailed without regard for due process. The courtroom was stacked with prosecution sympathizers a Ia Democratic convention '6R (The Republicans learned fast). Over 
forty defense motions were denied and only one was granted--an didn't think the FBI did work 
early break for lunch. The jury was locked up with U.S. Marshalls,  on college campuses.  
despite objections of the  defendants.  All motions concerning the  But,  he said, "Campuses  are  
unconstitutionality of the jury  lists  were  denied. Judge Hoffman  not sanctuaries exempt from the  
indulged  in  name-calling against  defense lawyers, both inside and  laws of the United States." Ac­ 
outsidc the courtroom. All the defendants were put under unusually  cordingly  he said  campuses are  

THB OBSERVER. 
Manf-i-ssues covered in press conference 
(continui!J from {JaKI! I) 
that he would address the Stu­dent Senate on the matter at its meeting tonight. "No." was Jlesburgh's reply 
when asked if he foresaw any change in the parietal hour sys­tem. lie explained that it would 
be a "travesty" to approach the Board of Trustees now with fur­ther modifications after they had approved the present system under the agreement that it was all the student wanted. 
Co-education at Notre Dame, said llesburgh was partially in effect insofar as sharing the cur­riculum with St. Mary's. lie said that St. Mary's plans to increase their enrollment. He added that plans to bring other girls schools into the area have been turned down in an attempt to work out a solution with St. Mary's. 
Hesburgh said that rebates for those students whose occupancy in the new dormatories was de­layed because of their incomple­tion were available. However, he said that he had written a note on this matter and that when those students affected under­stand the university's financial situation he doubted if many would still ask for the rebate. 
It was asked if llesburgh ap­proved of secret organizations such as the FBI working on campus looking for drugs or surveiling subversive persons. He replied that first of all the FBI 
was  not  a  secret  organization  
and  that  their  phone  number  
was  available  in  the  directory.  

Hesburgh said, though, that he 
ment agencies. 
The annexation proposal of South Bend's Mayor Allen was brought up but llesburgh cared not to comment on the matter at the conference. 
A questioner asked the Presi­dent if he could cite why the nation's college campuses ap­peared so peaceful this fall. lies­burgh said he could make no definite statement on the matter but he noted that the atmo­sphere at Notre Dame was "very friendly." 
Hesburgh was asked if he had ever considered stepping down as president of Notre Dame. He answered that today any presi­dent of any institution would be a fool not to ever consider step­
ping  down.  He  added  that  he  
thought  about it "five  times  a  
week."  

Editor: Gaetano DeSapio Publisher: Donald C. Holiday Night Editor: Dave Stauffer 
Layout Design: Marty Tieber Headlines: Frank Weigand, 
Rick Smith Layout:Mike Bridgeman, Dan Shaw Mary Ellen Burke, 
Mary Beth Crimmons Copy: Phil Schatz 
Heart Specialist! 
A~~UND ~H~ C~~N~~ 
PAGE 3 
REDISCOVER 
TAP£ 

RECORDING 
/'lore/co·
150 REGULAR-$64.50 

~c..... s5997 
B USE YOUR BANK CARD! 
'it1.LIJI.Utj
OPEN DAILY 9-6 
!~AT. 9a.m. to 5p.m. 
PH. 287-7218 
774 Lincoln Way East 

111 WEST WAYNE ST. • 

~ 
FLORIST GIFTS 

SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46601 

r­
1 I I 
PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER. WEDNESDAY,OCTOBER 29, 1969 
------------------------------------------~~~~~~~~--~· 
Murphy affirms curriculum changes 

was a team of Marketing stu-This year's team headed by N
operating areas. The hy potheti-'-------~----~--+-~---'"'-"""'!!..::.::t:..:t,t.~M!.!c~D~o!:!!n!.!l!!!lg_'.!.s___.J 
dents from Notre Dame. senior Tim Patton again hopes to • 
M. h" St t U . "t cal company sells three products return from MichJ"gan State vi·c-
The IC 1gan a e mversl Y to consumer and industrial mar-
Games are a computer-based toriously. Notre Dame has won Interested in the idea of a financial page for The 
. kets. , th . . .
usiness simulation whose pur-The _ Notre Dame e game tw1ce smce 1ts concep­
b 1968 1969 Observer? Have an idea or want to make a 
pose is to give future sales and team which won last year's com-tion in I963; a third win will 
contribution?

marketing personnel an insight petition was chosen from the bring the travelling trophy ba<.:k into the impact their daily deci-marketing club mainly on the to Notre Dame to stay.
--~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Contact: 

Bob Landgraf 234-6897 
or 

Call The Observer office 
and ask for Guy.

downtown South Bend 
by Jim Burke and Joe Wemhoff 
In an exclusive interview with The Observer, Dean Thomas T. Murphy of the College of Busi­ness Administration announced major curriculum revisions to be implemented next Fall. 
The revisions call for 5 I of the 126 hours required for grad­uation to be centered within the business student's area of con­centration: finance, marketing, accounting, or management. Fifty-one hours will also be al­lotted to the humanities, social and physical sciences, theology, and philosophy. The remaining 
OBSERUER 
FINANCE 
Today's paper brings with it an experiment in campus journalism. 
The Observer hopes to begin to develop a financial page. Every segment of the university community deserves to know how we feel the military-industrial complex is making out and how it will all effect their lives. 
We are experimenting now. We would like to be able to eventually run some stock prices AND an analysis of the 
market or or the current economic trends. We want it to be student oriented, however, and be able to give Notre Dame's budding financial analysts and candidates for Boards of Trustees a chance to experiment with some of their ideas, and to be exposed to the criticism and comments of the rest of the community. We hope also to encourage f acuity mem hers to make contributions they they feel are worthwhile. 
Today's page contains stories which are bascially about some of the activities of the business school here at Notre Dame. We hope that if you have taken the time to read them you might let us know of you reaction. If you are interested in the idea or would like to help out in some way, contact Bob Landgraf 234-6897 or call The Observer office. -ed. 
•

ND WinS Marketing games 
by Anthony Heimann sions will have on their com-basis of interest. Two graduated 
"If you have, through your pany's profits and return on seniors Dave Klingerman (cap­
. . h" investment, the criterion for a tain) and Hank Bailey, and two participatiOn m t 1s game, successful firm. 
gained some additional insights present seniors, Tim Patton and into the 'real world' of business, The games are run by the Tony Heimann were members of then regardless of where your Michigan State University Mar-the squad. Dr. David Ape! of 
keting Club. Participating the market1"ng depart t 
team finishes, you're all win-schools make deci.sJ·ons concern-men was
ners." the faculty advisor. After the d ing all aspects of business in the twelve period simulation was
d

This quote was a dresse to controlled environment of a
the 41 college teams who partici-over Notre Dame ranked second pated in the 1968-1969 Michi-hypothetical company. behind Northeast Missouri State. 
d The competition gets under-But with 30% of the results t-------------------1 gan State University Simulate way each fall when the format riding on the presentation, the Marketing Games by William of the simulation is outlined to
Glenn, director of marketing-panel of judges found Notre 
manpower development 0 each team's faculty advisor. Dame's performance more to 5adle 1S com1ng'
f

Sylvania Electirc. However the Each team represents a national their liking, and awarded them • . h sales organization with North, first place.real wmner of t e 1969 games South, and East geographical 
24 hours will be electives. Hope­fully, these electives will be con­centrated, rather than scattered. 
The Dean also revealed plans for expansion of the Business School enrollment. 
"It's very possible," he said, "that a balance might be struck sometime in the future that would be a little different in numbers than we have currently. We feel that our faculty, our facilities, and our organizational structure will enable us to have about 1200 students ... We are aiming to increase our graduate operation to 400, and we think our undergraduate number 
would probably be 800-900 stu­dents. 
Currently, the college has ap­proximately I050 students at the undergraduate level, with about 95 graduate students en­rolled in the Graduate School. Emphasis is on the integration of the two levels-graduate and un­dergraduate--as evidenced by the lack of two distinct faculties and facilities. 

Dean Murphy also indicated that the Graduate School has planned to institute a Master of Public Administration (MPA) program by 1972, and a Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) program by 1975. In addition, serious study is being given to the formation of spe­
cialized,  non-credit  refresher  
programs  for  actual  business  
managers.  

As to pass-fail courses, Dean Murphy is optimistic: "I think we would favor a kind of pass­fail system. One reason why I personally would favor it would be to attract good students from other parts of the University who might not have the back­ground they think would be essential to take certain courses, but who would like the exposure to knowledge that comes from such courses." 

In regard to the content of business school curricula, Dean Murphy cited three major deve­lopments at Notre Dame. 
F i r s t, h e o u t I in e d out greater role the computer will play in business courses. The College presently maintains its own computer facilities and the Dean foresees the time when all business students will take at least one course in computer science. The method currently employed by the College is the systems or wholistic approach, as opposed to the "hardware" approach, largely because the former offers greater flexibility for the future executive. 
· tion last year, through which a
A second area of knowledge 
playing an increasing role in the curriculum consists of the behav­ioral sciences, such as sociology, psychology, and cultural anthro­pology. This reflects the emerg­ing trend which emphasizes "how people react; not how to handle people." particularly student-oriented; in other words, good teachers are what we seek first, good resear­chers second. We would also like to have on our faculty people who do involve themselves in public affairs." 
Dean Murphy summed up by saying: "In the past quarter century, the Business School has come a long way-from providing vocationally-oriented training to giving a more general education." 
Thiidly, future plans for the College provide for the increas­ing importance of international business, and include the possi­bility of a year of study abroad. An initial effort in this area as the 16-day Seminar of European Money Markets over Spring vaca-
Dean Thomas T. Murphy 
Free room on cam­pus for ten hours work per week. 
Call 3675 or 3676. 

number of students and faculty visited European financial ce~-­ters. This seminar will be contin·· ued again this year. In addition, a marketing seminar has been instituted, which will enable a first-hand view of the marketing procedures of U.S. firms on the continent, also over the spring vacation. Increased course offer­ings in the international area are also under serious consideration. 
On the involvement of busi­
ness students with the social and 
moral issues of today, Dean 
Murphy commented: "There 
probably is less of an activist 
attitude among business students 
here and elsewhere than among 
other groups of students." 
Nevertheless, he feels that 
business students are concerned 
with social issues: "I think gen­
erally our students are involved, 
but maybe it's a different kind 
of involvement." The Dean 
cited a number of cases of busi· 
ness students aiding the Urban 
League, the Logan School, 
VISTA, and the Peace Corps. 

One Dav Service 
NO EXTRA CIJARGH 
Dry Cleaning 
Shirt Laundry 
W"th

I each $1.50 of drv cleaning you receive a coupon worth 25 cents at McDonald's! 
410 N. Michigan Street 


