



Look Mary, 1 told you Notre Dame men were cool dressers 
E 
OBSERVER 

VOL. Ill, No. 105 THURSDAY, MARCH 20, 1969 
Chisholm says 

Don't fear Blac_k Power 
Comments on letter reaction 
TMH meets press 
motivated for personal develop­
University President Rev. ment," he said. 
Theodore M. lleshurgh in a press In regards to his hopes and
conference yesterday com­goals for the Civil Rights Com­
mented on what he felt were mission, he set forth a set of
public misconceptions of his let­specific items, included were:
ter on demonstrations. lie also "Enforcement of existing laws,
commented on his plans for the United Stales Civil Kights Com­equality of opportunity in vot­ing, jobs, and education. We
mission. cannot look at any of these
Concerning his letter lles­separately."

bur~h said, "There has been too lie did feel though that, "Ed­much emphasis on the fifteen ucation must have a very highminutes. The fad is a person has priority, but it is possible for ato follow the rules of the com­man to have a good educationmunity to stay in." 
but poor housing, and a sub-parCommenting further he said, 
job."

"The only point I was trying to "With better education wemake is that the solution must will get better employment, withbe found in the University it­better employment we will getself." 
better housing, and with better
When asked if his solution housing we will get better neigh­
should be applied to other Uni­borhoods." he said. 
versities llesburgh stated, "Every An extensive study is plannedUniversity has to make it's own to help Mexican Americans anddecisions." But he also remarked Indians who, Hesburgh said,that "the only way I see is for have been greatly neglected inthe total University Community the past.
to set its own standards, and Hesburgh did stress that one values." 
of the top priorities for the When asked about the vio­commission was the "enforce­
lence in some campus demon­ment of title VI." Title VI is the strations llesburgh remarked, "I legislation which empowers thehappen to believe you can add Secretary of Health, Educationall the violence in the world, and and Welfare to cut off federalit doesn't equal all the moral aid from schools which arc segre­persuasion in the world." lies­gated. lie said that "vigorousburgh emphasized though, that enforcement of title VI is ter­he was a firm believer in legiti­ribly important."
mate protest. "Protest is not llesburgh also touched brieflyonly legitimate but sometimes on other matters, includingthe only way to make your Dow, the draft, and the non-vio­point." 
lent studies course at the Univer-
In regard to the recent spate sity. h "D
of legislation passed concerning lleshurgh felt that t c ow the cutting off of funds to cam­issue is an enormous over-simpli­by Chuck Jackson pus demonstrators he said, "I fication. What is the honesty of 
"Black Power is not a thing todon't think problems can be picking Dow? The University be afraid of." So said Shirleysolved by overreaction or repres­should look at the whole as­Chisholm last night to a half­sive legislation." lie did qualify pect." He remarked that "If filled library auditorium, as thehis statement by saying, "I can Dow becomes the code word, third speaker in the Community sec the problem of the state then everybody yells Dow." 
Forum on Black Power series.giving money to convicted fe­When asked about his feelings 
The first black woman ever tolons." on the draft he stated, "The 
be elected to the Congress con­llesburgh did feel that the whole question of the draft tinued, quoting the late Dr.
Universities must act. "If we needs complete re-doing. We Mart in Luther King, "Blackdon't move ourselves, somcone's must find a thousand ways to Power is really a cry of despair .
going to step in and rule us." get young people involved in . . it is a reaction to the totalllcsburgh explained that politi­making a better world." He said, failure of White Power ... '~'hecal forces were included in what "We should have voluntary ser­Black man is not doint anythinghe termed "outside forces." vice as a substitute for the different than the Caucasianslleshurgh emphasized that he draft." 
who strived to enter the main­did understand why there was lleshurgh explained why and stream of society."
trouble in campuses across the how the non-violent studies pro­Mrs. Chisholm added, "Black country, "Campus unrest is a gram was initiated. "The whole Power is an awareness of the reflection of the umest in the spectrum of student opinion, self-identity which the American world. llalf of the people in the from far-right to far left, University must provide ... to country arc young people ... brought up the idea ... " be master of his own fate." 
they arc asking 'Do we have to "We wanted to have some The university, the congress­have this kind of world? '" "We kind of program ... to study women said, is the bed of the can't ask young people to lcartf' human non-violent solution to most profound change for the how to make a better world, but problems," he said. He reiterated cause of the American Black. 
not to apply it," he said. his feeling on violence, "All vio­"The day will come when we When asked if there was going lence has gotten man is grave­will have black pride in edu­to be an increase in the number yards ... and destruction." 
cation and politics ... the black of blacks at the University he Notre Dame received an un­man is now uniting and the remarked, "I hope we will have restricted grant of $1 00,000 last students arc a part of this mas­more black students then last week from the Gulf Oil Cor­sive movement for freedom." 
year." poration to finance the program. 
Students and faculty arc pre­"We plan to appeal to Negro The exact formal of the program paring together for this future veterans, we feel they arc highly is yet to be determined. 
limited hOUrS thiS Weekend 
tory for halls to have approvedThere will be limited parietal The Tri-Partite Hall Bo_ard has constitutions and working hall hours this weekend, though the not yet been able to_ re~Jew the councils and judicial boards full bill as passed by the Student various hall constitutiOns, a before any of the proposed hall Life Council and the Board of 
procedure necessary for the rcc-life changes can go mto effect. Trustees will not go into effect 
ent proposals approved by the Though Fr. Riehle doubts for at least another week. 
Trustees to go into effect. Fr. that the hall constitutions can be Riehle issued the directive for drawn up ahd approved as early
Kev. James C. Kiehle, Dean of Students, issued a directive yes­this weekend on his iwn. as the Tri-Partite Board antici-Ron Mastriana, a member of pates because of the work invol­
terday in which he announced the Tri-Partite llall Life Board, ved holy for the hall leaders and
that "parents and immediate said yesterday that five of the the hoard, Maslriana said he
friends of the family" will be nineteen hall constitutions had feels the Board could review all
admitted to students' rooms this been received, but that none of constitutions by next week, and
weekend. Students may receive the visitors from 5 pm to 8 pm the constitutions had contained J that the various halls, uponthe amended section called for approval, could then adopt the
on Friday, 12 pmto 7 pm on by the trustees. The state111ent proposals set forth by the lrus-
Saturday, and II am to 5 prn on Sunday. 
by the trustees makes it manda-tees. 
change said the speaker. This she very explosive . . . We need said is characterized by increas-action as well as polemics." She ing demand for Black culture also declared that the state of courses, faculty members, and the university is symtamatic of realistic enrollment at the uni-the decadent values and the versity. hypocrisy in society today. 
Trustees arc a detercnt to the Recent action on student vio­flcxibility of many scholastic lence by the Reverand Theodore institutions, she said. She al-Hesburgh she pointedly refused luded to the I)?Wer trustees have to comment on. over many ·college campuses. On a broad outlook of Ameri-Trustces, according to her, arc can society and its attitudes neither representative of the towards the solution of the people they wield power over Black man's problems, she said, nor do they have Jnd effective "America does not have priori-means of communication with ties. Clear and concrete goals for them. Referring to all older this society arc not defined ... people, she stated "I feel that America is faced with comple~ there is not much hope for problems, but not unsolvable them." ones. The government therefore 
This is greatly to do with the needs a new breed of men and fact that the older generation is women dedicated to change and not receptive to the change innovation." going on presently and that will The course of action the black continue in the future. She fave man is taking today is, she the burden of this to the student noted, within the framework of saying, "If America is going to democracy, yet for this he is the have change, it will have to be object of scorn and hatred. She black and white students work-stressed that the movement will ing together to bring it about ·: · continue in spite of opposition. in youth there is the spark of hfe Concluding, she said, "This and the desire to sec democracy choice is ours, the chances for work." success may be slight, but we 
Of recent violence on college have to take the chances or die campuses, Mrs. Chisholm stated, in the process." "The trouble is very bitter and 
~··································································! 
§ On the inside ~ 
5 : 
: : : 2 : :! -Rossie receives anonymous letter .. pg. : 
: : § -Senior's last fling, complete with girls .. pg. 2 § 
: : : :-: -The world needs more buble-gum music .. pg. 5 :­
: : : : : : : -Whatever happened to the war .. pg. 4 E
E : 
E -Does anyone agree with Wolfe? .. pg. 6 E 
: : 
innlllllllllllllllllllllllllllll•llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
--~ ~--------------­
THURSDAY, MARCH 20, 1969PAGE2 

•

Rossie rece1ves letter from Voor's office Also to participate in campus turmoil conference 
SBP J. Richard Rossie recei­The anonymous writer felt obscenity, without Violating in a national conference, "Tur· iety, and a black student leader ved. a letter yesterday from an that the results of the case in First Amendment and prohibi­·-moil on the College Campus" at from Cornell University. The conference hopefully will 
unidentified source in the office question were relevant to the tion on prior restraint. the Sheraton-Jefferson Hotel in of County Prosecutor William issue that Mr. Voor created a Secondly, on the issue of St. Louis from April 14-16. The offer a meaningful atmosphere 
Voor. Attached to the letter was little less than six weeks ago obscenity, "allegedly obscene conference is sponsored by for discussion among the stu­
dents <lnd leading educators, and

a report of a court case of April when South Bend police publications or movies are not to Executive Systems, Inc., and is 29, 1968, involving an Indiana confiscated Andrew Noren's be treated in the same way as "dedicated to understanding will present "comments by out­
narcotics, gambling parapherna­student unrest and its implica­standing speakers relating to thepolice seizure of the film I a "Kodak Ghost Poems.' 
tions for business." problems of financing higherWoman. The plaintiff, Audubon First, on the issue of consti­lia and other contraband." 
Films, claimed that the police tutional law, the court decided Thirdly, on the issue of Rossie will sit in on a panel education and its relationship to dealing with an "Analysis of student unrest." Luncheon
had no right to confiscate their that, "law enforcement officers searches and seizures, "state 
film since it "had never been cannot seize allegedly obscene officers could not constitu­Campus Turmoil-Commentary speakers for the conference are 
found to be obscene in any publications without prior adver­tionally seize prints of allegedly in Depth." Also on Rossie's Sen. Charles J. Goodell, recently panel are a faculty negotiator appointed to Robert Kennedy's
adversary proceedings." sary proceeding on the issue of obscene moving pictures without from Columbia University, the vacancy, and Julian Bond theprior adversary hearing on the 
issue of obscenity; officers could President of the National Negro leader of the Ge~rgia Student Association, a black stu­Challenge at the Democratic
not seize and retain film as dent leader from Northwestern National Convention and a
evidence in pending obscenity University, Dean of the Center Georgia legislator. 

prosecution."Audobon films won their for the Study of Democratic Other panel discussions will 
r···-----------------------------------------------------~-case. Institutions, Vice President for include "After Graduation College Relations Director Academic Planning of Stanford What?" and "Financing Highe; cjo Sheraton-Park Hotel, Washington, D.C. 20008 Cont. In April University, a student leader in Education-A Possible Solution 
Richard Rossie will participate 

Stuqents for Democratic Soc-to Student Unrest." 
Please send me a free Sheraton Student I.D. Card: 
Name: ____________________ 


Senior Week to admit girls free 
Address: ___________________ 
Senior Week, a most ingenious the past have failed to achieve importantly, it will save partici­Senior Class-sponsored plan to notoriety because of lack of pating Seniors money. Secondly, rid the Senior Class Treasury of funds and improper publicity. the cost of Senior Week will be leftover funds, and to provide "This year with the Senior Bar kept to a minimum. Thirdly, the

We're holding 
the Seniors with a final fun-filled doing well, and good publicity," class treasury will then be able fling before they leave, will said Knappenberger, "there to afford it, and fourthly, fur­

the cards. 

occur the week of May I 0-16. should be no problem. ther discounts may be ap­The list of planned events to "The most important con­preciated if the response to the
Get one. Rooms are now up to 20% off with a 
which all girls are admitted free cept," continued Knappen­package deal is great enough. 
Sheraton Student 1.0. How much depends on 
of charge is as follows: berger, "to the success or failure K nap pen berger feels that "a 
where and when you stay. 

of Senior Week is, however, the total of 450-500 Seniors would 
And the Student 1.0. card is free to begin with. 
Kickoff Party willingness of Seniors to respond do nicely," and that he is sure, Dunes Trip to a package deal. Purchased by "that with the events planned, Wino Night individual Seniors, this package there will be no difficulty in 
Send in the coupon. It's a good deal. And at a 
good place. 

Bar Tour of South Bend deal for the week will accom-getting enough Seniors to par· Chicago Trip -plish four things. First, and most ticipate."
~h~~~~!?s~dl!~r~~~~A ~~~?!~~ Y!ns @ 
Viking Meal 

British troops invade
Chairman AI K nap penberger says that, "the originality of this Senior Week will be the fact that 


rebel Caribbean island
it comes off." Semor Weeks in 

THE VALLEY, Anguilla to British Foreign Secretary (UPI) · British troops invaded MichaeI Stewart, said the the rebel Carribbean island of islanders would negotiate with Anguilla yesterday to the jeers Britain only after "the of the populace. Acting immediate withdrawal of all President Ronald Webster told armed forces" and "the removal
What's so ~~ecial about 
weeping followers it was a of Mr. Anthony C.W. Lee," who British blunder arranged by God, was sworn in yesterday as her and dispatched a defiant cable to majesty's resident commissioner London. of Anguilla. Webster's telegram, addressed It also said "we have learned



Beechwood Ageing? 
that plans are afoot to

MICHIANA'S 
assassinate Mr. Ronald Webster"

SPORTS CAR CAPITOL 
and said the British would be Forsooth! 
held responsible. 

We ml.lst be bragging too much about let Budweiser ferment a second time. 
May the toothpicks of your 
"This is a great day for

Beechwood Ageing. (Most brewers quit after one fermen­
Martinis 
Anguilla and a black day for 

Because we're starting to get some tation. We don't.) 
Pile as high as an MG B! 
Britain," Webster told some 700 Drive one-they're intoxicating 
Anguillans who gathered on the

flak about it. Like, "Beechwood, These beechwood strips offer extra 
high school grounds while

(we just happen to have a fewBeechwood ... big deal." And "If surface area for tiny .yeast particles 
British troops were setting up

new ones around)Beechwood Ageing is so hot, to cling to, helping clarify 
camp bearby and tearing down'64 MGB Roadster; sparkle-blue, 

why don't you tell every­
stone fences to build roadblocks. 
the beer. And since these 

black interior Many of them burst into tears
body what it is?" 

'66 MGB Roadster; British rac­
strips are also porous, they 
during a chorus of the Anguillaning green, wire wheels, a real

So we will. 
help absorb beer's natural 
national anthem, which followsBROAD STOPPER 

First, it isn't big wooden 
the tune of "Battle Hymn of the
"edge," giving Budweiser 

see Jaguar George at 
Republic."
casks that we age Budweiser 
its finished taste. Or in other 

PEPPER'S MOTORS 
The invasion force landed

3105 W. SAMPLE ST. 
m. 
words, "a taste, a smooth­
from two frigates at two pointsBut it is a layer of thin ness and a drinkability you 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 
along this 15 mile long com!

289-7788 
island.
wood strips from the beech will find in no other beer at 

*Free martinis with each MGB! 
tree (what else?) laid down any price." 
in a dense lattice on the Ah yes, drinkability. That's 

STARTS FRIDAY bottom of our glass-lined what's so special about 
Times: Daily 7-9: 15; and stainless steel lagering 
Sat. 7-9:30 Sun. from 1:00
Beechwood Ageing. 
tanks. This is where 

we But you know that. 
Budweise&is the King ofBeers® 
(But you know that.) 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS • NEWARK • LOS ANGELES • TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS 


The _Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacatoons by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 


THURSDAY, MARCH 20, 1969 PAGE 3 
IS ANYBODY LISTENING TO CAMPUS VIEWS? 
BUSINESSMEN ARE. 

''ii't" 
Three chiefexecutive officers-The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company's Chairman, Russell DeYoung, The Dow Chemical Company's President, 
H. D. Doan, and Motorola's Chairman, Robert 
W. Galvin-are responding to serious questions and viewpoints posed by students about business and its role in our changing society . and from their perspective as heads of major corporations are exchanging views through means of a campus Icorporate Dialogue Program 
----~--------·-------------------·--.
Mr. Doan: 

lff~ JJHX JlllllllJ PJlllHfl JJl~fl Jl~ll llfllnJ~llll~ bllMMll~JI1 J~~lll~fMf~l 
Dear Mr. Doan: 

There currently is a great deal of debate about social responsibility in today's society. People have become much more aware of their responsibilities which accompany the many personal benefits in our society. Business firms should be just as aware of their social responsi­bilities: firms can no longer ignore racial injustice, the inner city, pollution of our environment, and the many other problems that face our society. But they would seem to on the basis of indirect evidence. 
For example, increasing local tax revenues 
is one way to promote local action in 
problem solution. Why is it, then, that 
an "attractive" tax base is one of the 
main selling points for Chambers of 
Commerce trying to lure firms to locate 
in their area? The clear implication is that 
firms want to bypass their obligation to 
pay for the services they receive from 
the community. Why should others, who 
mal<e up the remainder of the tax base, take up slacl< for business? Firms benefit 
from the educational system, utilities, 
roads, and the many other community 
services. Even more so, perhaps, than any other single taxpayer. 
A better approach would be to see that tax revenues are effectively utilized in the best interest of the community. Business­men should apply their special abilities to the problem of creating efficiency in both revenue coilection and expenditure. Business could lead rather than appear to exploit society in this connection. 
Today's student would be much more 
interested in working for a firm that emphasized providing constructive advice rather than one that is quibbling over a 
few extra dollars in assessments. An active, sincere interest in society not just superficial action such as joining the 
local Chamber of Commerce would do much to change young peoples view of 
business and its motives. Profit is a necessary but not sufficient condition for a firm's existence in today's society. Students are as much concerned about how companies utilize their resources to shoulder a fair share of responsibility in society as for the generation of profits. 
Sincerely yours, 
L .1<:,-l /. /. /:,,(iii I 
David M. Butler 
Electrical Engineering, Michigan State 
on specific issues raised by leading student spokesmen. 

All of these Dialogues will appear in this publication, and other campus newspapers across the country, throughout this academic year. Campus comments are invited, and should be forwarded to Mr. DeYoung, Goodyear, Akron, Ohio; Mr. Doan, Dow Chemical, Midland, Michigan; or Mr. Galvin, Motorola, Franklin Park, Illinois, as appropriate. 
Here, David M. Butler, completing his studies in Electrical Engineering at Michigan State, is 
Dear Mr. Butler: 

Let's consider your proposition-that today's student is terribly concerned about social responsibilities, and that profit is not a sufficient condition for a firm's existence in society-from the perspective of business' basic objectives. 
Business exists because it is of service to humanity. It accomplishes this service using the discipline of profits as a relatively impartial measure of performance, and through the development of the individual. There must be a balance between these three factors ... an imperfect but direct correlation. 
Maximum long-term profits is consistent 
with, and cannot be achieved without, 
maximum service to society. Maximum 
service to society can be achieved only 
through the maximum development and 
release of the ability of individuals. And 
maximum release of individual abilities 
brings about maximum profit growth. 
In the structure of our society, of the free enterprise system. business essentially is an economic instrument, and it can be of service as a social instrument only indirectly. If it charges in to straighten out the nation's social problems. as many on the campus would like to see, it will cease to perform effectively its basic functions as an economic instrument. 
This does not mean that business is 
indifferent to social problems or that it 
is not working toward practical solutions. 
Take industry's efforts to reduce the 
pollution of our environment, as an 
instance. Many companies have been instituting controls over air and water wastes at their production facilities. At 
Dow Chemical. we have expended approximately $10-million at our plants in 
Midland, Michigan, alone, with an annual 
upkeep cost of a million dollars. 

Along with this program, we have made a "business" out of Environmental Control. Research and development alone costs $1-million annually. This program has been made possible only through the discipline of profit. which brings me back to my starting point: Service to society is achieved only through accomplishment of our primary objective-maximum long­term profit growth. 
To me, the social involvement from this is quite clear. If business is to respond to the challenge of the times, to work toward solutions worthy of human effort and skill. there must be value systems. and an environment that favors highly moral. ethical behavio;· This is the responsibility of managemer.t. industry at large, and society as a whole. Implicitly, there is a 
questioning Mr. Doan. A member of the f?~an·s Advisory Committee, Mr. Butler also partiCipates actively in professional engineering organizations on campus; anticipates graduate studies before developing his career. 
In the course of the entire Dialogue Program, Stan Chess. Journalism major at Cornell. also will probe issues with Mr. Doan; as will Mark Bookspan, a Chemistry major at Ohio State, and David G. Clark. in graduate studies at Stanford. with Mr. DeYoung,· and similarly, Arthur M. Klebanoff, in Liberal Arts at Yale, and Arnold Shelby, Latin American Studies at Tulane, with Mr. Galvin. 
need for government policies and rules to 
match these much improved value 
systems, and to insure that industry's 
efforts are of maximum benefit to all. 
On this basis, let me turn your question 
on taxes around. There is not a single 
thriving community today whose health 
doesn't come from jobs; primarily, jobs 
provided by industry. 
Look at the impact made on any community through a new industry moving in. For every hundred people on its payroll, there will be 165 new jobs throughout the community, bank deposits increase by over $229,000 annually and retail sales jump accordingly. 
So, Chambers of Commerce, in their competitive efforts to promote community growth, historically have offered tax incentives to attract industries to their area. I say historically because I don't think this is now the paramount considera­tion for plant re-location. It simply is a factor along with other business reasons and aspects of community environment: availability of decent housing and convenient retail shopping ... of properly accredited schools with sufficient class­room space ... of churches ... of recreational facilities ... and the whole range of municipal services. And no responsible business enterprise will shirk payment of its proportionate share of the taxes required for the support of its community. 
I disagree with your suggestion, however, that it is up to business to assure effective utilization of tax revenues. This would attribute powers to business that it doesn't have, smacks strongly of paternalism, and implies a better ability on the part of an industrial concern to solve the community's problems than the community itself has. 
This is not to say that individual business­men shouldn't advise their communities on taxes or other matters within their personal competence and experience ... but as private citizens with a sense of civic responsibility, and not speaking for a particular business entity. 
What it all boils down to is that the objectives of society's principal institutions are well-defined. By each continuing in its own orbit, doing what it best can do, the social responsibilities of the times can be met more effectively, and society's needs better served. 

H. D. Doan President, The Dow Chemical Company 
THURSDAY, MARCH 20, 1969 

r 
PAGE4 

THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Visitation 
"Visitation privileges" have now been extended to include all weekends at Notre Dame "on an experimental basis" pending fulfillment of certain hall administrative details. 
The public argument for parietal hours long has been that a student should be able to have anyone come into his room, since it is his room. After all, it is absurd for the University to baby sit for people 18 through 22 years of age. 
Behind this is the more basic argument: whether the University has the right to legislate morality to its students. We believe that there is no question of a right; it is impossible to legislate morality. 
But the words "visitation privileges" and "on an experimental basis," besides implying a prison-like atmosphere in which the wife visits once a month, are a sympton of a more serious misconception on the part of the entire University. 
The above words intimate that the Board of Trustees and the Student Life Council feel that the University does indeed have the right to legislate rights and wrongs to the students. After all, what they granted was a privilege, pending the good behavior of the students, which can be revoked. 
We believe this attitude to be mistaken. The University's responsibility is not to be a father to its numerous, perhaps granting them use of the car for the evening so long as they wash the car the following day. 
The Student Life Council in this situation, and we fear in many that will follow involving any kind of innovative change, will only be acting as an advisory board instead of a legislative body. The parietals law is no more or less than another edict. Why can't the Student Life Council be accepted for what it is supposed to be? 
We are happy now that parietal hours have been extended, but the basic problem still exists. The idea the Board of Trustees and the administration have of themselves as a father-image is mistaken and must be discouraged and changed before more time is wasted treating the sympton instead of the disease. 

Nixon and ABM 
After eight weeks in office President Richard Nixon has finally shown the general course he will take during the next four years. He will be what everyone expected him to be, a middle-of-the-roader, intent on compromise to avoid opposition as much as possible. 
Last week he was faced with the first important decision of his short tenure, whether to continue· the current anti-ballistic missile system or whether to scrap it. Perhaps characteristically, he compromised, retaining a smaller defense system although removing it from the cities, thus attempting to mollify both sides. 
The original Sentinel system, which would cost as much as $21 billion, was hailed by some as a needed deterrent and protection for the country. The newly-proposed reduced ABM system, called Safeguard, will cost about $6 or $7 billion but will be removed from all cities except Washington and will be used to protect only the various ICBM sites around the nation. 
Even Nixon has admitted however, that an expanded Sentinel system could not protect the nation adequately in the event of an all-out nuclear war. The smaller Safeguard system will supposedly be sufficient to guard the various missile silos against the Red Chinese for at least ten more years. 
There is absolutely no assurance that such a system will work however, The 
technical efficiency of the smaller system cannot be expected to be any better than that of the Sentinel, which has undergone severe criticism. In fact, the only assured way of being sure is to start a war and try it out. 
Moreover, there is the increased danger of another nuclear arms race with the Soviet Union, just at a moment when the light is dawning on possible disarmament talks. It also makes ludicrous the international treaty barring, the spread of nuclear weapons. How can other nations be expected to halt their work on armaments while the United States and probably 
Russia are stepping theirs up? 
The greatest fear in implementing such a system is that it may be the first few trickles of water through the dam which will finally end in the dam breaking and ridiculous amounts of money being spent on defensive systems powerful and efficient enough to frighten off the Russians, which will only result in an increase of the "overkill" capabilities both countries have 
now. 
We now !1ave an example of Nixon's plans for the future -appeasement to keep everybody happy. Unfortunately appeasement doesn't solve proclems, it merely silences objectors for a time, until the problem explodes. The Senate should see the general drift of the Nixon administration and put the clamps on him and his ABM system now, before the 
foolishness begins. 
Gooe·· another w86~ of p~r&ttaL , h©Ui'6 ... o~hd 
0

l~ ~~~ ~ao 

One sometimes wonders whatever happened to the war in Vietnam. Periodically it disappears from the news and from conversations as if it never existed. Possibly these lapses are strategically planned to give the nation a time to rest -for everyone to forget about the fact that the war exists and to not have to make a moral decision about it either one way or another. 
If so, the plan seems to have been very effective. No one has stood up very recently and said anything very loudly one way or another about the war. The hawks have been silent, in fact they have almost disappeared. Almost everyone today is against the war -they just all disagree about which is the right way to end it. 
Meanwhile the war goes on: It now is the longest war that the United States has ever been in. If one computes its length from the date of the first American casualty (December 22, 1961) the United States has been in the war for a little over seven years. 
Meanwhile the war goes on: The United States is spending over $25 billion a year on financing it. And it has cost much more -like the lives of over 30,000 young Americans and the rejection of almost every promise of hope for the progress and welfare of humanity that used to be associated with the word "America." 
The predominant siltmce for the past couple of months has been due in part to a combination of former President Johnson's bombing halt in October, the beginning of the peace talks in Paris, and the election of President Nixon. 
All through the campaign Nixon talked about his "secret plan" for peace in Vietnam -the plan he could not reveal during the campaign because he didn't want to prejudice the chances of the negotiators reaching a settlement before a new President took office. He told the country to trust him and wait. 
Well, the country is still waiting and now one has to wonder if the plan ever existed. Perhaps that's not a pertinent question, anyway. The promise of a "secret plan" though, gave both the Hawks and Doves the chance to forget everything and remain silent, using the Nixon promise as an excuse. 
Whether or not Nixon still has his secret plan, he has found that Vietnam is a little more complicated than he had thought. The peace talks are going slow. The Soviet Union doesn't seem to be helping out as Nixon expected. The ironic thing is that the United States is having as much trouble dealing with its South Vietnamese allies as it is with North Vietnam. So much so, that reports out of Paris over 
· the past week and a half suggest the possibility of separate secret meetings with only the North Vietnamese and the Unites States participating. _ 
Nixon is also having trouble deciding how to run the war. On \1arch 4th he promised an "appropriate response" to the enemy's recent offensive. As of yet he hasn't decided what it will be. The allies launched a counter-offensive this week, but Presidential Press Secretary Ron Ziegler when queried about whether it was the appropriate retaliation promised, skirted the question, suggesting it was, in part, but something more might be expected. 
Meanwhile the administration had sent out questionnaires to every American that held any kind of post in Vietnam trying to discover what the real situation is over there. The questionnaires were all returned to Washington in 1anuary and February but the President has of yet released no new official Vietnamese policy., This weekend South Vietnamese Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker is headed for Washington to discuss the whole situation with the President. 
Which all points up to one thing. The President will soon have to speak out on Vietnam. The doves are not going to remain silent forever and the country as a whole is restless. The war and the peace talks can not continue in this haphazard manner for long. The war has gone on for too long as it is: Nixon has to make public his administration's policy on Vietnam. 
Its hard to comment on anything that hasn't been articulated yet -other than to say, what ever it is, for the country's sake, it had better be good. 

THURSDAY, MARCH 20, 1969 PAGES 
Voyage to the Kinetic Playground 
by Bill Thieman 
Featuring Jeff Beck and sundry teen-freaks, and Introducing the Ragger. 
I had heard of the Kinetic Playground, but I had never lived it! Many were the tales of famous groups who came there, famous groupies with wierd hobbies, wild light shows and raucous music. Rampant were the legends of Aaron Rousseau, who founded the Fillmore and who came to Chicago to bring fire to the midwest. And yet I had never been there, till the irrestable temptation was placed in my path: Jeff Beck at ti'.c Playground, March 15. 
La~nent the loss of the Yard birds! Last summet, they went their separate musical ways, after•·five years of pushing rock uphill and grinding out great musicians all over the place. First came Eric Clapton, who departed before the For Your Love album (although it is said that he can be heard on the live side of Rave-up). Then Jeff Beck who spuired the group to their limited success (siring 'Train Kept a Rolling" and the one and only "Jeff's Boogie" along the way), and who gave birth to modern cinema by destroying his guitar during a slightly altered version of "Train" in Antonio's Blow-Up. Jimmy Page came next, the final era, and now leads for Led Zeppilin. 
But-bravo, encore, eureka-Jeff Beck keeps the tradition alive! Beck has formed a group of his own (carefully structured so that he can dominate it completely) and the Yardbirds' leading figure goes on. Beck is a showman in his own right (with the Yardbirds I saw him unleash an infinitely long feedback note after whid1 he removed his guitar, laid it prostrate on the stage, and examined it with a stethoscope); on stage he is emotional, he is tempermental, and, above all these, he is a show-off ex hi I i rated by his power over a~ audience. 
The Ragger and I hitched to Chicago and visited his Lake Forest Hideaway. Then we mounted his orange Firebird and faltered our way (in twice the average time) to River Forest and rendezvoused with our Rosary-dates (I pitied mine for she was blind). Thence to the Kinetic Playgrouud, where Beck had already flattened thousands with his first set. 
I had always thought myself in keeping 
with my times, until I arrived at the Playground and faced the awesome possibility that I was either behind or perhaps years ahead of my young world. For behold, there before me was a 11tunstrous waiting line of countless teen-freaks, staring at me as a thing out of the past (or future). Self-consciously I stared at my conspicuous tattersoll shirt, my loafers, my outlandish CPO and I cringed before their stare, a stare that cam9' from amongst five million old army ." acllcts. The Ragger and I were not of ti{em~ .-..:; go through the motions of the Leary-Huxley generation but alas we 
' ' ' 
don t look the part. I feared to come back to Notre Dame to tell my poor ('eluded liberal compatriots th?t there is no one here that could face the test of the Kinetic Playground. Good God, we're all too straight! Oh, for a Navajo hat, a bleached-out army jacket so that I too ~;uuld be turned on! ' ' ' 
But Jeff Beck was inside and the line was moving quickly. Surrounding the box-office were the rich-beggars, a special class of teen-freaks particular to such places as the Playground. The rich-beggars drive there in their fathers' Toronados, hide the cars and appear in their grubbies, unshaven, and say: "Hey, 'man, I need some change. Can you dig it?" with that "We're all one" look in therr eyes. I suppose I am not a beautiful person, nor is the Ragger, for we ignored them (to the dismay of my flower-hearted date). But I saw one who was particularly pitiable (who had undoubtedly spent the most time getting grubby) and I was moved and gave unto him fifty cents. He replied, "Too much!" and to my horror the neon letters S-T-E-R-E-0-T-Y-P-E 

flashed  on  his  forehead.  The  Ragger  
snickered at my f olly.  
Inside  was  beyond  my  wildest  

hallucinations: a mirrir maze beefed up by a continuous strobe-light, "Lucy in the Sky" blasting out of a dozen speakers, black-belt bouncers in karate uniforms, and hundreds more of the 
."ubiquitous teen-freaks. 
And then there was music! Jeff Beck appeared in a Brando t-shirt, and jeans (his favorite outfit) with the added touch of a steel bracelet on his right bicep. The install t his pick crossed the strings our dates fled the room and the deafening 
rock that issued fort~. They only played for half an hour, but we could take no more. Rod Stewart's raspy voice was in fine shape an<;! so was Rod as Beck seemed to notice. For that is Jeff Beck's thing: his group digs each other as much as they dig each other's music, and it is 11ice to see love on stage, whether it's love 11etweer Sonny and Cher or love between feff B~.;k and his drummer, Mick Waller. 
He~;k is the centr<'llove figure just as he is the vortex of the music. He entices the drummer with a furtive smile, a whispered word or two, then a rush of gor~rous music;; 'le playfully fights Stewart for ~he mike to sing a verse of "Rock My Plimsoul." And Beck's don.ination is overwhelming; he finishes "Let Me Love You" and "I Ain't Superstitious'' with one minute guitar solos (guitar only), interspersed with gyrations and the Beck-grin that springs fro n the same cockiness that wrote the liner notes on the Truth album. The climax of the show (especially for Jeff and the boys) is "Jeff's Boogie", one of the gn:aL OtlCS. A repetitive jazzy thing, with a Beck-break at the beginning of each progression (one of the breaks is a hint of "Over, Under, Sideways, Down" and my mind quaked with a flash of the Yard birds). With the last burst of "I Ain't Superstitious" they summarily left the stage, unspeaking, and left us in the residue of a shattered audience. 
We found the girls, flustered and swole-eared in the midst of pounding strobes and grooving teen-freaks. We found the almost misplaced Firebird and sped Rosaryward past the Kinetic Playground as the Ragger screamed "Beck Power!" at th.e khaki-colored crowd. 

Give Me More of that Bubble -gum Music 

by Jim Brogan 
Pop' The bubble of pop music burst last spring-and out emerged the child of pop ,,;:.:sic-ht:bble-gum. It all began when the light-hearted Simon Says, by the then unknown 1910 Fruit-Gum Co., jumped to the top of the charts. This song has often been referred to as the first in a long succession of music that appealed only to younger teens, but in reality it is rather the only logical consequence of a gap left in pop music by the Beatles. 
Let us look back to what really made the Beatles in their early days-it was none other than the enthusiastic response of young teens and pre-teens, namely the present high school and college crowd. The Beatles harmonized well together and their sound was billed "unique". But at the start they had little more than a driving beat and some catchy lyrics. 
As the Beatles matured, and their music ~volved, their audience moved with them. fheir fans, now older and certainly more maturq_ in their tastes, demanded more in their wusic than simply some­thing they could dance to. They were in search of something they could relatt; with,solllcthing that said what they were thinking. Pn:viously the Beatles had ans­wered this need. But gone forever were the days of the Dick Clark Show. 
And as the Beatles went on to new musical improvisations, so other groups followed. These imitators acted grown up and tried to appear as worldly as possible. But where did this leave the youngsters who had neve1 quite gotten to know and love the Beatles? They were always too young-too young to appreciate the early Beatles and still too young to wnderstand the grown-up Beatles. They were forced to sort. out something which appealed to them. As a result, the musical scene, as evidenced by singles sales, was on the downgrade. The biggest buyers of singles (the young teens) found nothing they really liked. 
Then, came the advent of bubble-gum 
music. The Ohio Express hit the ~narket .early with a Louie Louie type rocker called Beg, Bon:ow afld Steal. Although not exactly a national sales monster, it attainted rcspecta.ble sales in m;my reg­ions of the country, reaching many top 
ten charts. 

Next came the. first giant of bubble­
gum music-Simon Says, performed by 
t.he now popular 1910 Fruitgum Co. 
Some criticized it as trivial, but it was no 
more trivial than the early Beatles, 
Herman's Hermits, or even the Irish 
Rovers. Simple, with catchy lyrics, Simon 
Says pretended to be no more. It was 
accepted without hidden pejorative mean­
ings, and soon hit the top of all the 
tune-decks. 

The 1910 Fruitgum Co. followed this 
up with the much-similar May 1 Take a 
Giant Step. Imitation songs rarely prove 
successful, and this proved no exception. 
The Ohio Express offered the next 
bubble-gum music entry with Yummy, 
Yummy, Yummy. And with this up-beat 
sound bubble-gum music was here to 
stay. In spite of a major attempt on the 
part of record reviews and even D.J.'s to 
discredit this tune as meaningless and 
trite, the record reached high on every 
chart. These critics failed to realize that 
something so simple could mean so much 
to a young teen, and missed the point 
entirely. Yummy displayed an emotion (love) as it was being felt for the first time by many young buyers. It made no weighty pretensions, and merely repre­sented youth expressing itself in its own terms. 
Immediately following were a flood of new bubble-gum lids. The Ohio Express came back with Chewy, Chewy, again very popular among the younger set. 
The Archies, too, came into their own securing their own Sat. morning cartoo~ show, and knocking out a hit single called Bang-Shang-aLang. This was closely fol­lowed by the very theme of bubble gum music Give Me More of that Bubble-gum Music by the Rock and Roll Double Bubble Trading Card of Phil. 1914. Bubble-gum music was beginning to grow up. And it was finally recognized and widely imitated. Such names as Paul Revere and the Raiders, Tommy James and the Shondells, and even oldie Tommy Rowe have established musical styles closely approximating bubble-gum. But even more importantly, bubble-gum was finally coming around to hint at some sort of meaning. 
For example, Quick Joey Small, by the Kasenetz-Katz Singing Orchestral Circus, was a song of social relevance touching the very real problems existing in con­temporary prison society. Not only was it a comment on the laxity of the guards and the warden, but also the inhumane treatment that forced Quick Joey Small to flee from prison (Dr. O'Brien, Crimi­nology 81, please note.) It makes specific reference to the antiquated method of custody, the ball and chain, and to the tragic chase of the escaped inmate by the sheriff and his dogs. 


PAGE6 THURSDAY, MARCH 20, 1969 
.,

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Th e Ma1 

===================:===================================================================:::::::::::::::::::=:::===================:=====:;:::====:==:::::::::::::::::::=:::=: 
Clouded logic Editor: We admire Mr. Wolfe's keen insight in making the very logical and astute observation that all Notre Dame students live either on or off campus. His logic, however, becomes somewhat clouded by his subsequent statements. We disagree, in the interests of logical validity, with
/_0. ~ 

his contention that there is a causal re Ia tionship between physical separation of the community and lack of ''communal spirit." This unequivocal statement of Mr. Wolfe's is absurd in light of the possibility that quite the opposite is true. Is it not possible that a person voluntarily moves off campus because he feels separated from the community rather than that 
he becomes separated as a result of off-campus iife? Even if it were true that, in general, off-cam pus students are ideologically at odds with on-campus students, it would be dangerous and probably invalid to unequivocally state a cause 
and effect relationship. 
In fact, there seem to exist many more obvious and basic divisions of community which do not follow the off-campus-on-campus division: liberal vs. conservative; apathetic vs. involved; or less obvious distinctions such as students who seek merely a diplomasvs. those who seek an education. It seems to us that Mr. Wolfe's solution of moving everyone into dormitories cannot eliminate these divisions. 
If a residential university is the solution to the division of community which exists at Notre Dame, how does Mr. Wolfe account for the lack of communal spirit among the on-campus residents alone? It is obvious that off-campus life is not responsible for these divisions-at least not directly or unequivocally. 
Steve Berry 
133 Alumni 

Andy Kronk 
432 Morrissey 
Inappropriate 
Editor: 

Although Coach Dee's reasons for not renewing his contract when it expires are incontest­able, his announcement at this particular time seems inappro­priate. One wonders why a suc­cessful coach coming off a fine season feels he must forecast his future actions when they could have a detremental effect on Notre Dame basketbalL Cer­tainly, basketball recruiting in the next few years has not been helped by the coach's announce­ment. 
In addition, one also wonders how didicated Coach Dee will be in his efforts to obtain the best qualified (academically and athletically) basketball players available. It is hoped that Coach Dee will continue in his job with the same dedication that brought the likes of Arnzen, Whitmore, Carr, Catlett, Jones, Meehan and other fine student 
athletes to Notre Dame. 
Nicholas D. Sylvester 
Assistant Professor 
of Chemical Engineering 
Tunnel perspective 
Editor: 
Chris Wolfe's column on the residential community made it obvious that Mr. Wolfe has at most, a tunnel perspective, and at least, no perspective at all about the complete community, and particularly the off-campus community at Notre Dame. 
Granted there exists two factions that fragment the campus community at large; But to say that one has had a negative effect is absurd. To say that the off-campus student has been shamefully neglected by the rest of the community would be a more accurate appraisal. 
The growth, or lack of growth of the off-campus community has been stilted by archaic rules on housing. Students of low academic standing have been forced off-campus whether they like it or not. Others who have wanted to move off campus have been curtailed in their efforts as well. The off-campus student has been further jaded by the rule on university approved housing, and t h c ramification of a landlord who, knowing the student has to live in such approved housing, because of "the law" charges the student outrageous rent and docs nothing to improve the property. 
Despite all of this, 97% of O.C'. students never want to move back on campus. Since that is the case, we arc right back where we started. We had 

Ifyou let nature 






take its course 
you may fail yours. 
You were supposed to cram for calculus tonight, but somehow 35-24-35 looked more appealing than the derivative of x3. 
And now it's 1 a.m. And nature can play some pretty mean tricks on a guy at 1 a.m. 

and stop relaxing. 
NoDoz has the strongest stimulant you can buy without a prescription. And it's not habit forming. 
NoDoz will help you resist nature. at least until the next ,,,::::> time a cold hard fact loses ' ~ ) ~~~.... 
damn well better examine the feel a· part of the community, residential community and find and in not doing so, we have out what is wrong with it that created our own dilema of a impels those who have escaped fragmented community. Our to vow never to return again. emphasis must be placed on These, combined with a lack rectifying this now. 
of communication with student Finally, I implore Mr. Wolfe government arc the negative as a member of the SLC as well aspects of O.C. life. This is not as a columnist to examine the to mention a dingy 12X 18 room O.C. community and its needs in the basement of the student with a wider perspective, and to center. Such grandeur for 1400 see where the real emphasis must 
members of the cummunity! In be placed. essence, we have not tried to Bernie Ryan make the off-campus students 246 Sarin 
Petition circulated on the 'Presidio mutiny' 
A petition asking Secretary of the Army, Stanley R. Resor, to "intervene in the mutiny trials of the 27 Presidio prisoners" was circulated in the Dining Halls Tuesday . Two seniors, Brian Mcinerney and St~ve Moriarty, are in charge of collecting signa­tures here. 
The purpose of the petition, which is sponsored by the Clergy and Lay Concerned About Viet Nam, is to bring attention to the trials of a group of inmates of the Presidio Stockade who staged a demonstration on October 14. They protested the killing of Richard Bunch, illegal overcrowding, lack of food, and unsanitary conditions at the stockade, and demanded the psychological screening of guards. Bunch was killed on October II, under peculiar circumstances by a prison guard. The guard fired upon him with one shot of a I 2 guage shotgun at a distance of ten yard seconds after Brunch asked him, "Would you shoot me if I ran?'' The guard also failed to give an order to halt. which is required by Army rcguIa tio ns. 
The 27 men arc being tried on charges of mutiny, which can carry the death penalty, despite a rc_c~~~ndation by Capt. R. 
STUDENTS! 
build yourself a bankroll this summer Get a 
GOOD-PAYING 


JOB at 
MANPOWER! 
~ 



~)~~.t\
7 ...____ -.\-. 


1/JJJI~~)
We have factory, warehouse and outdoor work-as many days a week as you choose. You get good pay, still have time to soak up the summer sun. Come in this week -we're interviewing NOW! 
MANPeJWER 
An Equal Opportunity Employer J. Millard, one of the Army H caring Officers investigating the affair, that a lesser charge be filed. Millard said that "In my opinion this case has been built up out of all fair proportion." He also recommended that the prisoners be given "trial by Spe cia I Court-Martian, max­imum sentence six months, or as an alternative separation under A R 635-212 less than honorable d ischargc ..." 
The first four to be tried were given sentences of 4, 14, 15, and 16 years at hard labor. One of them, Pvt. Nesry D. Sood, sen­tenced to 15 years, had his sentence reduced to 7 years at hard labor by Lt. Gen. Stanley 
R. Larsen, commander of the sixth army. 
Tuesday the trial of five of the remaining "Presidio 27" was moved to Ft. Lewis, Washington, because of recent anti-military demonstrations in San Fran­cisco. Lt. Col. John Lee, law officer of the proceedings, or­dered the change, fearing pos­sible "backlash" among the five officers of the high court to large demonstrations opposing the courtmartial. Last week, 
5.000 attended a demonstration 
protesting the controversial trial. Brian Mcinerney, who is in 



THURSDAY, MARCH 20, 1969 
PAGE 7 



THE W·ORLD TODAY 
Pope announces July trip to A frlca 
VATICAN CITY (liPI) -Pope Paul VI announl:cd yesterday he 
will fly to Uganda in cast central Afril:a next July to pray for peace 
in war torn ~ligcria and other areas of the troubled l:ontincnt. 
It will he the 71 year old Pope's seventh trip ahroad since his 
clcdion in 1963, and the first by any pontiff to Afril:a, although 
several early Popes were born in North Africa. 
The l'opc, alrcad'y the most traveled pontiff in history, announl:cd 
plans for the "rapid" 6,290 mile round trip after l:clchrating a St. 
Joseph's Day Mass in St. Peter's Basilica for several thousand 
persons. Wild l:hccring greeted his announl:cmcnt. 
lie said he would go to Kampala, the Ugandan capitallol:atcd on 
the shores of Lake Vi ;toria, in the sewnd half of July. 

Reagan attacks college administrators 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Gov. Ronald Reagan of California, charging that college officials give in too easily to campus 


Fr. Walsh awarded grant 
The Rev. John E. Walsh, Father Walsh holds a Ph.D. C.S.C., vil:e president for al:a­in education from Yale Univer­dcmil: affairs at the University sity and served two years as 
of Notre Dame, has been a­vice president for publil: rela­warded a short-term grant by tions and development at
•the Danforth foundation, St. Notre Dame until his appoint­Louis, Mo. . ment to his present position in 
The purpose of the grant ts 1965. "to provide opportunities f~r The grant enables each re­administrators to enlarge thetr dpient to take a leave from pcrspcdivcs of current and fu­his institution of from two to ture educational issues and to four months in length and pro­renew their inner resources for vides up to $5,000 for ex­continued leadership in higher penses inl:urrcd during the education." Of the 21 awards leave. The adual time of made Father Walsh's was the Father Walsh's leave as well as only 'one whkh went to an his spel:ifil: plans on using the administrator at a Catholic in­grant arc presently undeter­stitution. mined.


demonstrators, urged Congress yesterday to strengthen laws cutting off aid to such dissidents. 
In a statement suhmitted to a House education subcommittee, Reagan said: "A wlturc will revert to a jungle if there arc no traditions, values and laws which arc respected and defended." 
Reagan, whose ~tate has experienced a long series of campus riots and other disorder:;, did not appear at the hearing. II is statement was submitted by an aide, Alex C. Sheriffs. 
Reagan's statement said the ranks of the dissidents "have hecn swelled by large numhcrs of outsiders who have no legitimate wnncction with the c;1mpus." 
lie said that cutti.tg off aid to all rioting students "would hopefully redirect .'Jrotest into appropriate channels." 
Present law provides that federal aid to students convicted of offenses wnncctcd with campus rioting can be stopped. The Nixon administration has pledged to enforce the provision to the fullest in an effort to restore campus order. 
Laird predicts no cutback In military 
WASIIINGTON (UPI) Defense Secretary Melvin R. Laird reported yesterday that he saw no l:hancc of an early cutback in the 540,000 man U.S. military force in the Vietnam War. 
lie asked Congress for an additional $156 million to train South Vietnamese troops to assume a greater share of the fighting so subslant'ial American troop withdrawals can eventually begin. 
In a somber report to the Senate Armed Services Committee one week after his return from the war zone, Laird relayed word from 
U.S. field commanders that it would take another two years to bring the military situation under control in Vietnam. 
The highest American officials in Vietnam arc convinced t.he CJIIIII!Unists will make no permanent territorial gains, Laird satd. Hut he ,added there must be a major increase in enemy casualties before the anti-guerrilla campaign can be called a success. 
Laird, critical of past administration war policies, said he had found in Vietnam, "no indication that we presently have a program adequate to hring about a significant reduction in the U.S. military contribution in South Vietnam." 

Soviets tell China they have guns ready 
MOSCOW (UP!) The Soviet Union yesterday reported its fourth 
border clash with Communist Chinese troops in recent weeks and 
reminded its giant neighbor "our people have been holding their 
guns ready for half a Cl'nlury." 
Disclosure of the latest battle was made in the army newspaper 
RED STAR. It said the Chinese opened fire Tuesday across the 
frozen Usurri River ncar Damansky Island in the Far East, scene of 
three earlier skirmishes which claimed at least 43 Soviet lives. 
In a commentary published Wednesday night in the government 
newspaper IZVESTIA, Nikolai Atarov said, "it is intolerable to b~ a 
spectator now. We must at least intervene with angry words, wtth 
infuriated pen ... 
"Our coat of arms bears a hammer and sickle, not a gun, but our 
people have been holding their guns ready for half a century 

FBI agent thwarts plane hijack 
NEW ORLEANS (UPI) -An armed hijacker commandeered a Las Vcg·ts to New York Delta Airlines plane with 95 persons aboard }csterday night, but an FBI agt:nt traveling on the aircraft disarmed the man in New Orleans when the plane landed to refuel and allow passengers to get off. 
"The man said he would shoot me in the leg, so I thought I would try to do something," said FBI agent John M. Reed. 
Reed r-aid in the scuffle with 
the would h.: hijacker one bullet was fired. N0 one was injured. A man identif·cd by the FBI in Washington as Douglas Alton Dickey, :6, was taken from the plane in \Jew Orleans. The FBI said Dickey had boarded the pia ne in Dallas. 
He was jailed in suburban Kenner. FBI agent Ro~·crt Rightmeyer in New Orleans said Dickey would be arraigned 
Thursday morning on charges of 

Student Union Social Comission 

A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the FORUM 
New York Cast 

aircraft piracy. Reed, of Oklahoma City, was on his way to Mobile, Ala., to 
visit members of his family when the incident occurred. The plane made slops in Dallas, New 
Orleans and Atlanta before its terminal point in New York. He said he became aware of the hijacker about IS minutes after the plane left Dallas. 
"A passanger across the way told me there was a man ncar the back of the plane with a gun," said Reed. "Just about then the man started up the aisle." 
Reed said the man told a stewardess he wanted to take over the plane and that he pulled a gun on the girl. Reed said he talked to the man briefly, trying to persuade him to put down his 
gun. 
"Then he said he would shoot me in the leg so I thought I would do something," Reed 
said. A spokesman for the New 

A KENNEDY LANDSLIDE 
That's what we need in 1972. 
By then Senator Kennedy will have served ten years in the United States Senate. His growth has been phenomenal -growth in knowledge, in stature, in his search for ~x­ccllence as his brothers searched before hun. 
He would bring to the Presidency youth, vitality, a forward look, and the important ability to attract unusually capable men to his administration. 
Richard Nixon began his campaign immediate­ly after Johnson was elected. We have. no desire to undermine the new Admm1strat10n, but like President Nixon, we believe in the principle of loyal opposition. 
0 rleans International Airport tower said he received only three short transmissions from the plane. I le said the pilot was going to land, that a hijacker was aboard, and that there should be "no police" in the area of the , plane. 
The hijacker was not brought 
under control until the plane had landed. 
A gate agent for Delta, Ted llall, 35, said he saw a struggle in the plane when he first went aboard. 
"They were struggling in the rear of the plane," he said. "Then Reed got him with his arms behind him and tied him with his (Reed's) belt." 
I tall described the hijacker as "rugged, glassy-eyed type" weighing about 160 pounds. Hall said the man was "not neatly dressed." 
When the word was relayed to the pilot, Capt. Tom Ward, he said the aircraft did not have enough fuel to reach Havana. 

We hope Ted will become a candidate. We believe that then! is no finer leadership in the country. If you agree and want your opinion heard, help to win a great mandate for Ted. 
Start now by displaying an unusual 1-M" x 2-Y.t" oblong KENNFDY·IN-'72 button or an attractive KENNFDY-IN-'72 bumper sticker (great for taping on walls. doors, win­dows). Send $1 for any 2 items of your choice to: 
LEADERSHIP 1972. BOX 421. BROOK­Ll N E VILLAGE, MASS. 02147. State which college you attend. (Also. if you want to work early toward his possible candidacy, please indicate this). 
Morris Civic 
Fri. Mar. 21 

8:30p.m. 
Tickets $4.50 $5.50 
Available at 
Gilberts 
Bookstore 
Dining halls 
.. 
THURSDAY, MARCH 20, 1969

PAGES 




Meyer upsets Allan •1n Bengal Bouts 
By TERRY O'NEJL him hard, but backed off several Observer Sports Editor"------_ times, spurning a knockout
How Hank did If 
effort.
Sophomore Hank Meyer of 
DeCICCO'S CARD GILSTRAP'S CARD HORAN'S CARD 
. Ervin picked up a unanimous
Leonia, N.Y., upset so ph foot­Round Meyer Allan Round Meyer Allan Round Meyer Allan decision over Cincinnati soph
bailer Denny Allen last night in 1 8 8 1 10 10 1 9 10 Tom Wagoner, who displayedthe big surprise of the 1969 2 8 7 2 10 8 2 10 8 
3 8 8 3 8 10 3 10 9 post-fight disappointment with
Bengal Bouts semifinals. 
his own performance.
Meyer earned a split decision 24 23 28 29 29 27 (see insert) following a 16S POUNDS second-round knockdown of the off-balance frosh with a solid Hansen, who still looks like a The division's only seed, Ashtabula, Onio, native. chopping right. Gaul took a wrestler even with gloves on, junior Joe Murray, was bumped 
After a fairly even first two-count. hulled Baker around the ring and off as Dan Johndrow and Chris session, Allan turned aggressor at wore him down with a number Servant gained the finals.
12S POUNDS 
-the second-round bell. He had of effective, if unstylish, blows. Johndrow's decision drew a
Flashy defending champion
Meyer on the ropes within 15 huge negative reaction from the
ISS POUNDS

Eduardo Ferrer looked sharp in
seconds, but Hank came out of a crowd. It was a split, Horan
In the evening's first surprise,

decisioning Ralph Bianco while
protective crouch with a jarring (30-27) and DeCicco (23-22)
Steve Silva captured his second

Jack Griffin outbrawled Bill
right hand and Allan fell to the going for Johndrow and Gilstrap 
triumph of the tourney and

Golden for the right to meet
seat of his pants. (30-29) voting for Murray.
upended seeded Dave

Feerer tomorrow. 
He stood up at the count of Servant, much smaller than
Pemberton. Silva will meet Kent 
,

Eduardo, a junior from
two, looked at ringside observer Casey, a decision his foe, senior Dave Snediker,
unanimous

Panema, Panema twice floored
Ara Parseghian and shrugged as scored in all three rounds with a

victor over Chris Miller. 

Bianco with looping left hand Chuck Landolfi 
if to say, "Sorry I fumbled, zippy left jab and pocketed a
Pemberton stood schocked in

leads and kept him off balance
coach." Head-hunting unanimous verdict. 
throughout with a quick left jab. the corner when the outcome Hall sophomore who certainlythroughout the final round and a Bianco, himself, scored a was announced. DeCicco had it 17S POUNDS must eat nails, blitzed juniorhalf in an effort to catch up, 24-23, Gilstrap 30-29 and Horan One ringside wag said, "It's Jack Pierce in one of the night'sknockdown moments before theAllan swung often, but landed 30-27. Both DeCicco and obvious that Etter is a rollout best bouts. 
second-round bell. 
seldom. 
Meyer will face defending Griffin piled up a big margin Gilstrap scored . the first two quarterback," after the Holy In the other semi, junior Joerounds even and gave Silva, a Cross Hall frosh had spent six
in the first two rounds, due Renice developed shoulder
'-champion Chuck Landolfi 
Rapid City, S.D., frosh, the minuted encircling Walsh senior 
tomorrow. The Ellwood City, mainly to his superior reach. problems in the second round
third. Tom Breen and won his wayGolden's last-round spurt closed
Pa., senior gridder expended and had to give up his battle
Casey, a into the finals.
the gap to a split decision. blond junior from
himself very little in gaining a with senior Tony Kluka of
Carroll, Iowa, had little trouble I~ the opposite corner
Griffin was ahead 29-28 Kenosha, Wise.
unanimous verdict over 
with soph Chris Miller, a St. toriibrrow will be John McGrathaccording to judge Jim Gilstrap
freshman Bill Gaul. Petersburg, Fla. resident. a cousin of ailing Bob, and ~ Connelly, scoring to both the
and 30-29 according to JohnLandolfi threw only two left good scrapper in his own right. body and the head, downedHoran. Mike DeCicco favored 160 POUNDSjabs the whole match. He spent Etter conjured up memories Pierce for a seven count in the
Golden 24-23. Lefty Fred Deboe looked tomost of the six minutes leaning 
be a of Cassius Clay vs. Sonny Liston second round. His back to the
more-than-formidable

away from Gaul's punches and 13S POUNDS as Bill burst out of his corner at ropes, Connelly slipped a MeyerPau I P. Partyka, another challenger for 1968 Boxing Club countering his foe's leads. 
a trot and stopped only uppercut and crashed a big right 
Midway through the second reigning champ, scored big with MVP Jed Ervin in tomorrow's momentarily for exchanges with hand to his opponent's jaw.
round, Landolfi eluded an a couple right hands and merited final. 
Deboe showed everything but Breen, who chased in frustration Renice said, "I just poppederrant Gaul jab and decked the a unanimous decision over Tom 
for six minutes. McGrath also knocked off a
Kress, a sophomore from a killer instinct in whipping my (left) shoulder," on his way 
Keenan freshman Hal Smith. back to the dressing room. HeFayetteville, N.Y. 
Partyka, a junior from Deboe, of Hammond, Ind., seeded boxer in senior Boh and Kluka had been sparring on
ND ruggers 
Larson, who ran out of gas a
dropped Smith for a one-count even terms until the injury toPhiladelphia, tommorrow will 
meet Ebby Moran, a senior from in the second round with a long roung and a half from the finish. Renice's joint. Under collegiatehost Indiana left on the end of a big flurry. In 18S POUNDS rules, it is scored a unanimous
Oak Park, Ill. Moran, jabbing and running for three rounds, the third round, Fred clubbed Matt Connelly, an Alumni decision for Tony. 
got the judges' nod over a stalking Chicago freshman,

Saturday 
The Notre Dame Rugby 

Ara answers all at Alumni Hall
Jamie Egan. 

Football Club has begun another 14S POUNDS season, and their prospects 
The two top seeds, "Sudden" By MIKE PAVLIN ever, is absent from the list. "We invited every year. The onlyaprear much the same as they Tom Suddes and Gary Canori, Observer Sports Writer tried to get them, but they chance of our playing in any sorthave in the past. 
blasted their way into the finals couldn't find room in their of bowl game would be if that 
The Irish opened competition Irish head football coach Ara 
on unanimous decisions. schedule," explained Ara. He game would decide the national 
on March 8 against the Cleveland Parseghian discussed offense and 
Suddes, a Holy Cross then outlined his plan for a new championship."
Rugby Football Club in Cleve­opponents, recruiting and re­
sophomore, staggered Simon in a sixty-minute scheduling concept. ''I've made Bob Belden was selected by
land. The game was a grudge vamping,
Kovalik across the ring with a the proposal that every team fill Dallas in the pro draft, Ara
match of sorts; the Irish had question-answer talk last night at vicious right hand near the end Alumni Hall. Perseghian's ap­up eight games for a year. A believes, because of his height
snapped Cleveland's 21-game 
of the second round, then team would have to leave two (6'-2Y2", 6'-3"). "Bob throws a 
~ win streak last fall by beating pearance was on of a series of 
countered Kovalik's leads dates open two years in advance good pass and I think he'll make
speeches by campus newsmakers beautifully in the last canto and sponsored by Alumni Hall. and one date one year in ad­a fine quarterback."
them at Notre Dame, and Cleve­
land later defeated Palmer, one 
won easily. vance. That way, if ND and Parseghian clarified the
of two clubs to beat Notre Dame Ara opened his session by
Canori, a Watertown, N.Y. Alabama were undefeated in rumors of his coaching in the 
last fall. Both clubs have some­explaining NO's preference for 
frosh, battered Claudio Cerulli 1969, they could open the next pros, saying that, although he 
thing to prove, and the Irish her present defense rather that a 
and left him exhausted at the season against each other." had had seven offers since he
presented a stronger case. They 4-3-4, or "pro" defense. He 
finish. Speaking of next year's pro­had arrived in South Bend, he
whipped the larger, stronger stated that college ball is much spect, Ara was cautious, saying preferred the college environ­Clevelanders twice, 6-3 in the ISO POUNDS more challenging because a team 
The 150-pound division title must fact a wide variety of that this spring would be a time ment. "A professional job is not "A" game and 8-3 in the "B" of "personnel alignment". He in the immediate future unless game. Dave Yonto and Sal was supposed to be the personal offensive formations from week something drastic happens."
Bommarito were outstanding for property of Bob McGrath, last to week. "We use the defense expressed optimism over last year's frosh, but denied the re­That "something drastic", ac­the Irish, and Rico Bordenave of the Fighting McGrath family that we feel can adjust best to a 
and the 1968 kingpin at 14S. cent accusations of racial pre­cording to Ara, would be a
and Mike Paterni hit clutch pen­given situation." 
judice in the offensive backfield. de-emphasizing of the footballalty kicks to wrap up the win. But McGrath, TKO'd by the flu, Several questions dealt with "We place boys where they can program.
was forced to scratch last night
Last weekend the Irish jour­the pros and cons of the Irish best help the team, because it is "I wrote a recommendationneyed to New York to play the and the scramble was on. offense and defense. Parseghian a team," Parseghian emphasized. to install Astro-Turf because INew York Rugby Football Club. Joe Judge, beaten Monday was insistent in pointing out the believe it helps reduce injuries,""If I have a player who is out­They may have left their game in night in the quarterfinals by vast improvement of the defense 
as a standing, I'm surely not going to said Ara, "but it would costthe New York bars, however. Aaron Baker, got new life during the season. He refuted $250,000. This is too much atleave him on the bench." He also They were beaten soundly by substitute for McGrath and took the idea that N D was "conser­present considering the moneystated that Ernie Jackson, sorely the New Yorkers 15-3. full advantage with a unanimous vative", saying, "We were one of put into the Athletic and Con­needed on defense last year,verdict over Miami soph Val 
the most explosive teams in the

Rugby Schedule would be given a shot at the vocation Center."
Bernabo. 
country.'' 

offensive backfield. Coach Parseghian also com­March 22 Indiana (H) Baker's victory Monday Parseghian was asked to eval­Parseghian also dealt with pared Joe Theisman with TerryMarch 29 Palmer (H) qualified him to meet uate several of next year's foes, some specific q ucstions, such as Hanratty, Jim Seymour with(B vs Purdue) Indianapolis junior Jim Hansen, expecially Purdue and the three howl games, Bob Belden, and Jack Snow, discussed how toApril 5-12 Bermuda Invitational: and, ironically, Hansen won a service teams. "Army had a fine Astro-Turf. He explained that a stop O.J. Simpson, explainedHoly Cross, Fairfield, unanimous vote last night. team last year," replied Ara. "I bowl game was very unlikely in punting techinques ("JimBrown at Bermuda Throughout his fight Monday, was talking to coach Tom Cahill the future. "The situation was deArrieta has the quickest re­... April 19 U. of Chicago (A) Judge had been urged to clinch the other day and he complained reviewed in 1964 when the pos­lease I've ever.seen"), and dealtApril 20 Michigan State (A) by Landolfi, who was in his of losing much on offense. Navy sibility arose and we've been with recruiting problems. 
April 26 Georgetown (H) corner. Last night, Chuck was is supposed to have a fine fresh­May 3-4 Midwest Tournament: getting dressed as Judge, a man team. Purdue has Mike St. Louis, Chicago, southpaw, floored Bernabo in Phipps back and has a fairly 
Palmer at Chicago the first round with a right-left decent freshman squad." 
., May I O-Il Irish Challenge Cup: combo. The rest of the way, he Ara brought gasps from his Toronto, Chicago, stayed in tight, clinching often audience with the news that the Army at Notre Dame and negating Bernabo's schedule is already made up May 17 Alumni Game tremendous reach advantage. through 1978. Alabama, how­









