

THE WORLD TODAY 
THE
. 
Irish president pays tribute to Irish 

OBSERVER

DUBLIN (UPI) -President Eamon de Valera, in his annual St. Patrick's Day message released yesterday, paid tribute to Irishmen 
Serving the Notre Dame 11nd St. MIU)I ~College Community 

and friends of Ireland abroad for helping the nation win and maintain its independence. 
VOL Ill. NO. 101 MONDAY, MARCH 17, 1969 
... 
-~

On the eve of Ireland's national feast day, the 87 year old de Valera said: 
"We renew our thanks to all, and pray that through St. Patrick's Citadel of liberalism intercession it may he granted that our people every where will be foremost in promoting a true knowledge of God amongst men, and 
Cong. Powell opens forum

peace with justice amongst the nations." Prime Minister Jack Lynch, in his St. Patrick's Day message, 
Congressman Adam Clayton Powell, dressed entirely in He stressed the position of blacksingled out Irish missionaries abroad for special praise and pledged Powell, Jr., kicked off this black and smoking his habitual militants on necessary violenthis government's determination to work toward reunification. 
week's Community Forum on cigar, opened with the comment, tactics: "Even Jesus didn't say"It has been the aim of the government to promote the Black Power in his own inimit-"It's a pleasure to come to this what to do after you've beenrcunific;1tion of Ireland by fostering a spirit of brotherhood among slapped on the check twice; I sayall sections of the Irish people," Lynch said. "I wish to assure our kick the hell out of them afterfriends abroad that we shall continue along this course." 
that." present "sick,
Korean DMZ scene of gunfire volley The American 
sick society" encompassed the 
SEOUL, Korea (UPI)-American infantrymen guarding the tense middle portion of Powell's western scdor of the Demilitarized Zone separating North and speech. He hurled strong invec­South Korea exchanged gunfire yesterday with North Korean uvcs against the war in Victnam,' infiltratcrs. It was the fourth orycstcrday with North Korean saying, "What right have we to infiltrators. It was the fourth border incident in six days provoked impose upon the Vietnamese by the Communists. people a form of democracy we 
No American casualties were reported in the clash yestc~day The don't practice at home? Get out two Communist infiltrators fled back across the truce line of Vietnum. get out of it now! apparently unh:.~rt. What are we going to win if we 
The rniuaftl\rnoon exchange yesterday took place in the same do win?" He added that the general area where North Korean troops and United Nations forces solutions to our nation's prob­battled for two hours Saturday." lems lie in the "hands and 
The Saturday clash, described by A mcrican officers, as "greatly hearts" of today's young people. violent," cost eight American and one South Korean lives. One U.S. lie urged them to "change the soldier was killed in the fighting and seven Americans and the South world that your mothers and Korean died in the crash of a U.S. army medical evacuation fathers have to live iR." helicopter·. Powell said that dissent is the 
best means of changing the Communist troops maul allied forces world, and that "when young 
people on cumpus flex their SAIGON (UI'I) -Communist forces mauled a unit of U.S. and muscles, they're doing it in the 
able style at Stepan Center last citadel of liberalism"; he then best American tradition." HeSouth Vietnamese troops yesterday in a dcauly ambush just below 
night at 8:00. The Harlem Dem­

the Demilitarized Zone. American armor knifed into the DMZ itself proceeded to outline the basic disagreed outnghf with Father where the heaviest fighting in four months erupted. ocrat presented a speech which principles of the Black Power llesburgh's position on violence The U.S. Command said six American ·Marines·were killed and was divided into three main top­movement. ·"Blacks," he said, in the universities: "Fifteen min­
ics: the meaning of Black Power,

four wounded in t.he ambush by about 200 Communist troops on an "arc simply determined to be utes of meditation will never allied platoon operating near Dong II a, an outpost 10 miles south of the decadence of American so­equal with all other ethnic solve anything. Man, we've been 
ciety, and the right of dissent. meditating for three hundred
the DMZ. South Vietnamese casualties were described as heavy. A groups. We aren't aggressors, but 
plutoon numbers about 48 men. defenders. We don't advocate years in slavery, and for a hun­The intensifying action ncar and inside the DMZ coincided with a HPC learns of violence, but we don't discredit dred years in quasi-freedom." rocket attack early Sunday on Saigon as the Communist offensive ·non-violence, either. Black The Congressman also advo­
room selection

went into its fourth week. But only minor damage was reported in Power doesn't mean 'anti-white' cated an unlimited "divine" the South Vietnamese capital where one person was wounded. "It will be almost impossible unless you make us anti-white." ·right of dissent, hut with the for any student to move to The Congressman stated that reservation thut violence should 
Packard : Nixon final ABM authority another hall next fall unless he his beliefs espouse the concepts not be implemented "until you 
wants to move into one of the of "black dignity, black integ­reach a breaking point beyond 
WASHINGTON (UPI) Deputy Defense Secretary David Puckurd new dorms," said Phil McKenna rity, and 'black is beautiful.' " all reason." gave ussurance yeslcrduy that finul uuthority for any usc of the at a IIPC meeting last night in modified Antiballistic Missile woulu lie with the l'resiuent. the student center amphitheater. 
McKenna reveals plaps
"! could not recommend any system which would rely on the The HPC is assisting in the co­ernmcnt and Student Union of­
decision of a computer," he suid. ordinating of room sl'lection a­Student Body President elect ficials before I make any deci­Phil McKenna revealed last nightl'ackard, questioned on television Issues und Answers-ABC about gain this year. 
sion."
some of the future plans whichthe scaled down ABM concept I'resident Nixon announced Friday, McKenna, IIPC chairman and Before entering office, Mc­Student Body President-elect, he intends to undertake, bothsuid that no nuclear weapon of any sort could be used "without the 

uuthority of the President." said that due to renovations, prior to and on entering the Kenna also plans to work on the black situation which presently
He also said the Chief Executive would have adequate oppor­most halls' capacities will be office of President. 
exists at Notre Du me. lie said,McKenna stated that the firsttunity to rct~ch a decision and issue orders during the approximately decreased next year. But the ''I'll work very closely with thething which he intends to do is
20 minult•s it would lake an enemy missile to arrive. freshman quota in each hull will Racism Committee in regard toeither remain the same or be to onsult with the top men inAsked whether the Soviet Union might not rcuct to the ABM putting on the planned RacismStudent Government and thedeployment hy taking further military steps of its own, Packard increased. 
Week, which will be held in
replied: "I think not." McKenna asked that each pre­Student Union. "I have alr.cudy April. I will then do a complete
sident submit an estimate of the talked with Rich Rcmbusch and study on racism here at NotreChinese regiment charges Russ post number of students who plan to Chuck Nau," McKenna said, Dame."

remain in his respective hall next "and I'll work very closely with When asked which one of hisMOSCOW (UI'I) A regiment of 3,000 Communist Chinese year. The HPC will then suggest Rich Rossie in the next couple proposals he intends to initiatesoldiers charging in "wave uftcr wave" of artillery supported attacks to the University what the fresh­of weeks to ensure that there is a first upon entering office, Mc­smooth change of administra­attempted to overrun a Soviet border garrison in lhtt latest clash over man quotas for each hall should Kenna replied, "I want to waittions. This is a necessity for the

the frozen Ussiri River, a Soviet regional military commander he. reported yesterday. HPC co-chairman Ron Mastri­type of continuity which the 
for the Student Life Council to Student Government must pro­
pass the important hills, which it
The battle for Demansky Island in the border river Saturday was, ana reminded presidents of their vide." 
is presently working on, before I 
by Soviet uccounts, the biggest armed clush ever reported between obligution to compose new con­McKenna also stated that he bring in my own bills for consi­Soviet and Chinese Communist for~:cs. It was the second fight on the stitutions defining the branches deration. I think !hut presently,
islund within two weeks. of government within their halls. pluns on working closely with 
Muj. Gen. Vusily Lobanov, commander of the Soviet Army's The constitutions must comply John llickey, the Academic Aff­off-campus housing is the most Pacific Occun frontier region, described the battle in a dispatch with University policies and with airs Com missioner, "to make important consideration for distributed Sunuay by the Soviet news t1gcncy TASS. the judicial code. sure that the Academic Reform both the Student Life Council 
"An infantry regiment with support un1ts ... under cover of . It will then be subject to 
Committee is moving as swiftly and the Student Government. I on
artillery fire, intruded into the southern extremity of the island and review by the Hall Life Board. A as possible. I will ulso rely heavi­do plan, however, pushing attacked Soviet front icr guards ... in wave uftcr wave of charges," hall's constitution must be up­
ly on his suggestion for the through most of the issues I appointment of his sucecssor." brought up in my cumpaign."
l.ohanov said. 
continued on page 3 

lie suid the Soviets summoned reinforcements from neurhy posts 
In regards to the appointment In regard to his Student Gov­be~.:ause they were heavily outnumht\red by the Chinese regiment, of other officials, McKenna said, ernment pluns for the future, believed lu number at least 3,000 soldiers. "It will be at least u week before McKenna stated, "L: plun on 
"In spite of the numerical superiority and strong fire of the I select the Union Director, re­spending the whole summer here placing REmbusch, and other in order to work on my longenemy," Lohanov suid, "the frontier guard repelled the attack and drove the Chinese off the island. Thl' snow wus black from the cabinet officials. I will consult at range projects, such as co-educa­length the present Student Gov-tion and the University Senate."
explosion of the shells." 


PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER MONDAY, MARCH 17, 1969 
Third year in a row 


Illinois jazz group cops top honor at CJF 


r=oreign Car Service 
and Parts ... 
For All Makes and Models.•. IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 2416 MISH~WAW~A AVE. 

USED CARS 
See ED MORAN· (N.D '69) at John's Auto Sales 
702 Mishawaka phone: 255-9342 
Corner of Cedar & Mishawaka ,\ve's. 
ALSO: New Suzuki Bikes 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10, from The 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame 1nd., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 

-
MONDAY, MARCH 17, 1969 THE OBSERVER PAG.E 3 


Hall constitutio revision needed 
Mastriana said that the bill At next Sunday's meeting the
(continued from page 1) 

dealing with the hall constitu­liP(' will nominate a new dwir­proved before the parietal hour tion and review board has al­
man to repluce McKenna who bill or any of the three other ready been passed by the Board will assume to office of Student hills, recently passed hy the SLC · of Trusl.ees. The other three will Hody President April I. Voting and awaiting approval by the be considered this week. Accord­will lake place the followingBoard of Trustees, will apply to ing to Mastriana, "The remaining week. The new chairman will the hall. bills have a YO'Y, chance to pass." only complete McKenna's term which would have expired in 
October.

Laetare Medal conferred upon 
A new co-ch<~irnw n will also be nomimJted since Mastriana's

Supreme Court Justice Brennan term expires in May. The chair­mull must he a h<Jll p·resident
The Laetare Medal, the Dwight Eisenhower in 1956. He while the co-ch<Jirmun need not
highest award given by Notre -·has n:ceived an honorary degree 
Dame, was conferred upon Supreme Court Justice William 
J. Brennan. 

The announceml•nt of the award was made by Rev. Theodore Jleshurgh. Commenting on· the award lleshurgh said, "In a year in which dissent and violence loom large in our national life and at a time when Am e r il:ans arc sensitive as never before to the imperative of justice: for all. drennan is a parliculurly felicitous choice for the Lac!arc Medal." 
Commenting further on the award lleshurgh said that the eligibility for the award has been changed to include priests and 
religious as well as laymen. lie remarked that the arrangements 
for  the  presentation  of  the  
award  to  Brennan  will  he  
announced later.  
Brennan,  a  Democrat,  was  

appointed to the high court b 

SAVEl 
on New & Used Cars 1969 GTO 

400 cc H.D. 3sp., wide oval, radio, buckets, heater, custom interior............ $282.1 
1969 FIREBIRD 350 cc, 3sp., wide ovals, radio, buckets, custom interior ... $2649 
See DAN TUTKO (class of '67) at WELTER PONTIAC, 3:30 to dosing 
ST. PATTY'S DAY ADS 
B.A. Happy St. Patrick's Day 
and Happy '20th. Love, Tim 
Bill St. Patrick is feeble! 
P.C. +Jelly 
Proclamation: On March 17, Ralph Horvath Is to be called "O' Skip". 
Dear Kay Belle: May I ring your chimes? J.J.C. 
Good Luck SMC Junior Day Students. Your friendly neighbor­hood spiderman. 
Madilia, 
''o-o-o-o-e-e-e-o'' 
Leroy 
To Kathy, All my love to the Cutest Irish Rose of all. Love, Dennis. 
To the young fmpressionables, ERIN GO BRAUGH Passionately, The Van + Don Juan 
Chicken Fat and the Girls: Happy St. Pat.'s Kahoona 
--Happy Birthday Thomas Patrlck Your a big boy now. 
Very much love, Mary Fran-
Tho legendary Cl LA Washington project will have an evaluation session Wednesday at 9 at Louie's 
To the Lasses from Kudo's Happy St. Patrick's Day -The Guys from Kudos 
With groe·gold linnet of Erin callln' Amy, my charmin' colleen hero's wishin' yeo "a happy St. Patty's Day" Dan 
be.

of Doctor-of Law from Notre Dame. Previous to his...---------------+ 
-appointnwnl Brennan fought for 
the clearing "of delays in 
litigation in the country.. 
Concerning this he said. 
"Delayed justice is bad justice, 
for time has a way of blurring 
memories and killing witnesses." 
At the time Brl•nnan was an 
Associate Juslice of fhe New 
Jersey Supreme Court. He served 
in t hal position until his 
appointment to the Supreme 
Court. 
CJF THANKS THE 
STAGE CREW FORA FINE PERFORMANCE 
Miller makes it right! 







···{FAILUREJ·· 

You'll never get anywhere without it. 

Nothing helps a young engineer's career like hein~ given a challeng~. Which is another way of saying a chance to fail now and then. To make his own mistakes. 
At Western Electric we give our newly recruited engineers responsibility almost immediately. They make their own de­cisions. learn from their own errors. 
Don't get us wrong. We keep our 
demands reasonable enough so that our rPcruit.:; ran rnake their decisions at their own pace. But our thinking is, a man feels awfully good about even a small decision when it's his. 
If you're the type who'd like the chance to make your own moves, see our recruiter or write College Relations, 222 Broad­way, New York, N. Y. 10038. 
A lot of hard work never hurt anyone. 
@ Western Electric MANUFACTURING &SUPPLY UNIT Of THE BELl SYSTEM AN [QUAL OPPORTUNI IV EMPLOYER 

PAGE4 'THE OBSERVER MONDAY, MARCH 17, 1969 


34 brawlers slated tonight 

Dominic "Nappy" Napolitano sends 34 boxers into the ring tonight in the quarterfinals of the 39th annual Bengal Bouts. Action begins at 8 pm in the Convo's South Dome. 
Semifinals are slated Wednes­
da~ and the finals Friday. 
Student tickets, available at the 
door, are $1 per night or $2 for 
the entire tournament. Tonight's 
card: 
125 POUNDS 
Ralph Biano, junior, Peekskill, 
N.Y., vs. Charles Fabian, sopho­
more, Whitesttone, N.Y. 
Jack Griffin, junior, Manches­ter, N.H. vs. Tom Sweeney, freshman, Columbia, Tenn. 
Irish 2nd 

in fencing 
The Great Lakes Fencing Championships were held Satur­day afternoon in the Convo­cation Center. It was won by Wayne State University of De­troit. Notre Dame's swordsmen placed· second in a ten team field. Teams for this meet were composed of the top two fencers in each sword class from each school. 
Finalists for the Irish in the foil division were Bob Babineau (sixth out of ten) and Lou Emer­son (seventh out of ten). In epee NO had one finisher in Joe DePietro. The Irish made their best showing in the sabre class where Bob Mendes tied for fourth and Roger Holzgrafe fin­ished sixth. 
This does not count as a regular season defeat for the Irish fencers. They finished the season with a 16-I record. Top individuals were: 
EPEE 
I. Charles Anderson, Wiscon­sin, 7-2; 2. Richard Goleniewski, Wayne, 6-3; 3. John Kolenda, Detroit, 6-3; 4. John N ad as, Western Reserve, 5-4; 5. David Myers, Illinois-Chicago, 5-4. 
SABRE 
I. Frank Nagorney, Western Reserve, 9-0; 2. Tyrone Sim­mons, Detroit, 6-3; 3. Dave J\umtock, Wayne, 603; 4. Tie between Robert Mendes, Notre Dame, and Ray Feu!, Wayne, 6-3. 
FOIL 
I. John Nishimura, I Ilinois­Chicago 7-2; 2. Richard Milazzo, Wayne, 7-2; 3. Fred Hooker, Detroit, 6-3; 4. Jerry Latt, Wayne, 5-4; 5. Charles Bruce, Detroit, 5-4. 
Mudron garners wrestling crown 
Big Pat Mudron took the heavyweight championship Saturday at Oxford, Ohio, in the 4-1 wrestling tournament spon­sored By Miami U. 
Mudron was awarded a refer­ee's decision over Phil Szukis of Northern Illinois in the after­noon, then whipped Indiana State's Bill Osborn 5-l in the title bout that night. 
The other two Irish grapplers entered, Keith Giron (123 pounds) and Bill Hasbrook ( 177); were bumped out in Friday's first round. Giron lost 
I 7-3 to Tim Morgan of Indiana 
U. (Pa.) while Hasbrook dropped a referee's decision to Jim Vanderport of Central Michigan. 
135 POUNDS 
Tom Gould, junior, Erie, Pa" vs. Tom Kress, sophomore, Fayetteville, N.Y. 
145 POUNDS 
Simon Kovalik, sophomore, Munhall, Pa. vs. Dave O'Donoval, junior, Chicago. 
Jim Smith, junior, Northbrook, Ill., vs. Claudio Cerulli, junior, Chicago Heights, Ill. 
150 POUNDS Joe Judge, senior, Bayshorc, 
N.Y. vs. Aaron Baker, sopho­more, Cleve.Iand. 
Jim Lusk, sophomore, Hous­ton, vs. Jim Hansen, junior, Northbrook, Ill. 
155 POUNDS 
Chris Miller, sophomore, St. Petersburg, Fla. vs. Mike McNicholas, junior, Pompano Beach, Fla. 
Kevin Kerrigan, freshman, Arlington, Va. vs. Steve Silva, freshman, Rapid City, S.D. 
160 POUNDS 
John Kurtz, senior, Forest Park, Ill., vs. Tom Wagner, soph­omore, Cincinnati. 
165 POUNDS 
Dave Kelly, sophomore, Ho­Ho-Kus, N.J. vs. Dan Johndraw, junior, Millbrae, Calif. 
Dave Snediker, senior, Edina, Minn., vs. Tom Dolack, junior, Niles, 111. 
Chris Servant, junior, J\ ttle­boro, Mass., vs. Ken McCandless, senior, Omaha. 
175 POUNDS 
Bill Etter, freshman, Spokane, Wash., vs. Bill O'Brien, junior, Lynn, Mass. 
John McGrath, senior, Michi­gan City, Ind., vs. Tom Loftus, senior, St. Charles, Ill. 
185 POUNDS 
Pat Egger, freshman, North 
Hollywood, Calif., vs. Joe 
Renicc, junior, North Massa­
pequa, N.Y. 
HEAVYWEIGHT 
Fran Donovan, sophomore, Wheaton, III., vs. Bill Goul, freshman, River Forest, Ill. 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~lllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 

··········~···················································~···················· 



Baseball's best prospect 
ORLANDO, Fla. (UP!) -I've just seen the best prospect of the spring. Beyond question. 
He won't Il1ake any impression at all on the upcoming pennant race but he already has made a lasting one on some members of the human race. That includes me. 
His name is Frank Sands, he's a 20-y'ear-old catcher belonging to the Minnesota Twins and the tiings he has locked up inside him arc some of the same things they write about in books. 
Young Sands comes from Nassau in the Bahamas, which annually produces only a few more professional ballplayers than Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia but that still isn't what makes him so unusual. 
What does it is his attitude. By far the most overworked word in all the baseball camps each spri!fg is the word "unbelievable." They apply it to every rookie who knows how to get from first base to second without tripping. In Frank Sand's case, the word is warranted. His attitude is unbelievable. So is his outlook. 
Frank Sands was the victim of a freak accident last Oct. 6 catching for the Twins entry in the Florida Instructional League during a stopover at St. Petersburg. 
While warming up on the sidelines, a ball he was trying to handle tailed off his glove, bounced up and smashed his cheekbone. J\ piece of splinter from the bone pierced his right eyeball and when Frank Sands put his hand to his eye and felt the 

· boood and everything, he said quite calmly to his manager, Del W ilbern "I think I've lost my eye." 
Unfortunately, he was right. They rushed him to a hospital but the doctors never had a chance. The damage was too great. · Exactly four weeks later, Sands telephoned Wilber at the ballpark. 
"I'm being discharged from the hospital today," he said. 
Wilber said good and sent coach Johnny Gory! to pick him up, thinking Sands would want to go first to a motel and then maybe home, but who do you think showed up at the ballpark straight from the hospital? Frank Sands. 
"That's where he told me he wanted to go," Gory! said. 
Shortly thereafter, Sands was fitted with a glass eye and instead of going on home he told Wilber he would like to keep on playing ball. So they began working on trying to convert him to a pitcher. 

Calvin Griffith, the Twins' owner, was so taken by Sands' general attitude and determination that he invited him to Minnesota's camp here this spring. 
Sands didn't ask special favors and didn't whine about his misfortune. He impressed everyone with his desire. 
"He's not fooling, he really wants to play." says Rod Carew, the Twins' second baseman. 
But Sands made a few discoveries, too. Once when all the pitchers were at the mound working on a move to hold runners at both first and second, Sands did well enough with the guy on first but broke up the group when he tried looking at the guy on second and said with a laugh: "Uh oh. This one is going to take a little work." 
Manager Billy Martin, the pitching coach, Early Wynn, and everybody in camp grew tremendously fond of Sands from the first day he arrived here. 
On Friday·, however, before the exhibition game with the Atlanta Braves, Martin called Sands and three other rookies into his officd. He closed door and gave them the sad news. He was sending them to the club's minor league training base in Melbourne, Fla., for reassignment. 
Sands took it well, naturally. 
"Everybody was wonderful to me during the two weeks I was here," he said, stuffing his gear into a light blue canvas bag. "I learned a lot and made new friends. J\s for my eye, it is not such a handicap. Certainly I am not bitter about it. I still think I can play in the major lcague.s and I will keep trying. It hurts a little to leave h!!rc but I only feel sad for Billy Martin because I know it hurt him to have to tell me and the others." 
Calvin Griffith will see to it Sands has some kind of job in the Twins' organization whether he ever makes it to the top or not because that's the kind of fellow Griffith is. 
Del Wilber has been in baseball 32 years. As a catcher for the Cardinals and Red Sox, he has seen, first hand, such physical accomplishments as Stan Musial's transformation from a sore armed minor league pitcher to a hall of famer; Ted Williams lifting a 50-pound weight the day after they put a steel pin in his shoulder, and Johnny Grodzicki coming back to win ball games for St. Louis after he almost had both his legs shot off as a paratrooper during World War II. 
But Wilber says he never has seen anything like Frank Sands. Neither have I. 


Ah bfood! Ah gore! Ah Bengals! 


Ice playoffs carded 
Morrissey Hall posted an I I 2-2 record to win regular season honors in the N D inter­hall Hockey league. Morrissey's 24 points provided a five-point margin over second place Ho­ward, with 19 points. Off Cam­pus took third place, Zahm and Farley tied for fourth, and Cava­naugh fif\_ished sixth. 
In the playoffs, Morrissey and Cavanaugh will play a 2-of-3 game series with the winner ad­vancing right to the finals. The middle four teams in the stand­ings will play quarterfinal and semifinal 2-of-3 game series to determine the other finalist. The championship will he a 4-of-7 game series. 
Last Tuesday, Morrissey fought off a stubhorn Cavanaugh teanr and took a 4· I playoff decision. Greg Kaelin, who was the league's leading scorer, clinched the match for Morrissey with two last-period goals. Wed­nesday night, Farley upset Ho­ward H 4 as Dick Leubbe and John McCarthy each scored twice. On Friday, Zahm com­pleted the first round of playoff games by dumping Off Campus 7-4. Gerry McPartland pro­duced a three-goal "hat trick" for the·victors. 
ND goes. dry 
in track event 
Notre Dame returned with no individual victories from the NCAA indoor track and field championships, won by Kansas Friday and Saturday in Detroit. 
The two-mile rci<Jy team of Mike McCann, John Brady, Joe Quigley and Rick Wolhunter finished second t0 Kansas State. N D sprinter Bill II urd was elimi­nated in the semifinals of the 60-yard dash, won by Olympian John Carlos. Irish high jumper Ed Broderick bowed out at 6-H before Florida's Ron Jourdan won the event at 7-0·!4. 






