
VOL. IV, No. 55 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10,1969 
Curriculum changes recommended 

by Rich Smith ure on account of absences) and through D would be counted as 
The Observer obtained yester-AX (Absent from the final "pass." The pass-fail option was day the recommendations of the exam). . recommended for re-examina-Curriculum Revision Committee The grade of X shall be used tion by the Deans' Committee which are now to be voted on by for extenuatmg cucumstances after it is in effect for two years. the Academic Council. beyond the control of the stu-Another recommendation 
The committee's first recom-dent ~nd to be averaged as zero, would extend the period during mendation asks for the adoption ~evertmg to F on the re_cord if it which a course may be dropped of the new academic calendar IS _n~t cha_nged to a passmg grade till October 15 during the first for next year which has the first wtthm thtrty days after the be-semester and till February 22 in semester ending hefore Christ-ginning of th~ next semester. the second semester provided mas and commencement the A pass-fat! system ~hereby the student's remaining course third Sunday in May. ~ac? undergra_duate dunng t?e load docs not fall below the 
Elimination of Saturday class-JUntor or semor year may file minimum of I 5 credit hours and es and retention of SO-minute wit~ th~ regi~trar a~ _the time of he receives from the class in-class meeting periods on Mon-regtstratton hts dectston to take structor a statement of satisfac­day, Wednesday, and Friday in one elective, non-major course tory progress, or that the "drop" addition to the introdtH.:tion of per semester on a pass-fail basis be recommended by the univer­75 minute classes on Tuesday was also recommended by the sity physician for reasons of and Thursday where possible is committee. health. also called for by the committee. If this recommendation is The grade WF (withdrew fail-
In the area of grading policy, passed, the filing would be irre-ing) should be abolished, accord-the committee recommends that vocable and would result in con-ing to the committee, while the the grades C+ and B+, with grade version by the registrar of the grade of W or F be made avail-points of 2.5 and 3.5 respective-professor's grade into an entry able on withdrawal. Jy be established along with the of "pass" or "fail" on the stu-Under the Committee's re-dropping of the grade FA (Fail-dent's record. The grades A commendation, the "Pass" 
SLC to meet with HPC 
We know the blame for the
Riehle, Fr. McCarragher, Prof.
by Uill Carter 
confusion is upon us for the
Houck, and Fr. Whelan. What 
most part and we put it thereThe Student Life Council has they pointed out to us was that ourselves for not using thescheduled a meeting next Sun­we've really had all the autono­

day with the Hall Presidents powers that we really do have.
my we could really ask for since Council for the purpose of talk­last year." 

It's just not true as many people ing out some of the problems of Suddes said the confusion as 
still think, that the Administra­

hall life. No real format for the to the extent of the powers of tion still looms over everything informal meeting has been set we do. There really are no limits.
the individual hall to govern 
There is nobody above us watch­up, but some groups characteri­itself had arisen through a lack ing down on us telling us whatzed themselves as hopeful of of com rnunication between the 
to do."
clearing up some of their quCB­two councils. According to him, 

tions during the discussion. Suddes said the parietal ques­
the IIPC had not been aware all 
tion certainly one

Tom Suddes, Chairman of the year of the degree of the powers will be 
brought up at next Sunday'sIIPC, said the hall presidents concerning self-determination in meeting, but it should not domi­

were anxious to talk with the hall life that it does possess. SLC members but had no out­nate the discussion. standing objectives on the ses­
sion. He said that the biggest 

"Our biggest problem was at­"There will be no unifiedissue confronting the HPC this a definition halltempting for push for dropping sign-ins," Sud­year has been the question of authority," Sud des said. "There des said, "but we will want tohall autonomy. According to just wasn't any concrete defini­ask a lot of questions about theSuddes, that issue was essentially 
tion for it. Everybody thinks of reasons behind the sign-in proce­taken care of long ago. autonomy as something differ­dure. We really don't know all ent. The concensus opinion at the reasoning behind it, so we the dinner-meeting was that the just want to find out what its "We had talked about some current parietal system presents purpose really is. We also maykind of hall autonomy bill ear­the only real problem right now have some suggestions about lier this year," Suddes said. "But The halls already have all the more qualified staffing for the two Sundays ago we had a kind rights to govern themselves that halls. But we're not going in of informal dinner meeting with they need. They can do just with any real idea of looking for 
some of the SLC members, Fr. about anything within reason. something in particular to come out of the meeting. We're just going to talk and see what peo­ple are thinking." 
Fr. Whelan, one of the SLC members who suggested the meeting, expressed much the same sentiments. He said he thought the meeting would con­cern hall life in general with no specific objectives outlined be­forehand. 
"The meeting will offer a chance to get together with the presidents, and hear what they have to say," Whelan said. "The SLC wants to understand much better what's going on in the dorms and this meeting will be an opportunity to do just that. Nothing major prompted the calling of this meeting just a common desire for a chance to exchange ideas back and forth." 
The meeting will begin at I 0 o'clock Sunday in the conversa­tion pit of Grace Hall. It is expected to last much of the day. 

grades would not count toward for freshmen in order to ac-the grade point average but will quaint them with the various count toward fulfilling the grad-educational opportunities avail­uation requirements. able to Notre Dame and to 
In the area of counseling, the encourage them to develop per-committee recommended that sonal philosophies of education the counseling and advising pro-and plans of study· gram be expanded as follows: Citing the decreasing size of 
First, central counseling ser-the applicant pool, and the con-vices as well as in the services of sequent diminishing of Notre colleges and departments should Dame's capacity to operate a be. required to cope with new selective admissions program, curricular flexibility. the committee called upon the 
Second to meet the needs Admissions Office to "take of sopho~ore students especial-every possible step to stimulate ly a centraJ referral agency and greater numbers of applica­increased publicity about coun-lions." seling services should be avail-In line with the above recom­able. mendation, the committee re-
This goal can be accomplished commended that the university by designing and developing in-adopt a policy of ·encouragement formal faculty-student meeting for increasing diversity of acade­places where spontaneous advis-mic programs, and that the res­ing will more often occur by ponsibility for implementing this establishing programs which policy should be centered in the might utilize the largely untap-office of the vice-president for ped resources of student coun-academic affairs. selors and advisors, possibly in Another recommendation conjunction with a course for which the committee hoped·. academic credit. would increase applications for 
The freshman year of studies admission was for a "highly mo-program should examine the tivated, independent study," and feasibility of setting up a course asked that No_tre Dame take 
(contmued on page 2) 

ND students propose a University Senate 
of new, and we just changed the basic structure of the university
by Dave Lammers 
three years ago. The problem of · 
Approximately thirty who is in control of the power is students, faculty, and not because of a lack of administrators met in the Center structures. It seems to me that for Continuing Education last we are suffocating by Sunday night to discuss the committee!" 
possibility of forming a Many of the people present at 
University Senate. the meeting were upset by the 
The University Senate abscence of Father Hesburgh. according to some of the John Wiltz wrote a letter to The originators of the idea, would be Observer (see page 7) relating a tri-partite structure that would part of a conversation that he h a v e complete power over the had with Father Hesburgh. internal affairs of the University, Wiltz, one of the students on replacing many legislative trial for his CIA-DOW 
structures now existant. activities, commented on his ab­It was proposed that the new sence. body would meet regularly so The I wrote tne letter
reason that an atmosphere of is twofold: first, I am dissatisfted 
understanding, trust, and unity wtth the way the university is could be established. The going about the trial. I feel that possibility of having a yearly we are being processed as objects moratorium on normal rather than tned as indtviduals. university business to discuss the The letter was an attempt to 
meaning and purpose of the remind the Anministration that university, and to elect the we are mdividuals. Secondly, the members of the proposed senate, Jetter is an attempt to eduacte was suggested at the meeting. the community to what is really 
"We proposed this idea last happening behind the scenes," spring. I think it's an excellent continued Wiltz. idea, but it's not the panacea for "I think it was important for the problems of this university. Father Ilesburgh to be at the Sunday night there was only a University Senate meeting skeletal-like proposal, and it's because of what he is, one of the hard to summarize the main persons in the decision 
discussion that we had Sunday making process. We wanted to night," said Phil McKenna. present this idea to htm on a 
"We did gel to what are some personal level," he said. of the root questions that face Mr Faccenda was cor.tacted us now. What is a Christian late last night to answer and University, and how does Notre comment on John Wiltz's letter Dame measure up to that ideal? which appears on page 6. 
And there arc problems of Faccenda said that he was decision making in the told Friday night by Fred university, issues of basic trust Dedrick, Sldent Body and confidence," he continued. Vice-President, that a proposal 
Mr. James Frick, had been drawn up, whil:h if Vice-President in charge of accepted by the administration, public relations ;..nd 
would in return he a promise to Development, said, "This idea of 
the ad ministra lion that the use a University Senate will take an of force on campus would he awful lot of study. This is kind (continued on page 2) 

PAGE 2 • THE OB$ERrlER. WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10,1969 


Off-campus request initiated bySMC students 
by Jim Hayes Commissioner, has already given Students at SMC have full cooperation of his offices to initiated a campaign requesting the SMC students. This would the Board of Trustees to result in a joint off-campus re-evaluate their position against commission for both schools. Off-Campus housing. Combining these services, such Presently, the Committee is as housing lists, would result in doing research into the problem. no duplication in this area. They plan on conducting survery and studies on the advantages of SMC students favoring off-Off-CaJ;Ilpus living, both to the campus housing feel that several individual to the Saint Mary's advantages would accrue, favor-community as a whole. They able not only to the individual also hope to run a series of students but to the St. Mary's articles concerning the advant-community as a whole. ages of Off-Campus living some By allowing students to live time in the future. off-campus, St. Mary's would no The committee emphasizes longer be tied down to the po­
that they intend to advocate licy of building new dorms every their issue by working through time the Administration wished the proper channels. When their to expand the size of the school. 
preliminary work is completed, This Committee also feels that they will present their findings by allowing upperclassmen to to the Student Affairs Commit-live off-campus, the school tee; who would then forward it would also increase the diversity ti the Student Arrairs Council, of the student body. which is subject to the approval At the same time in keeping of the Board of Trustees. with the concept of liberal edu-
Bernie Ryan, N.D. Campus cation, off-campus housing 
would allow closer contact with the world and a greater chance for students to acquire a broader range of experience. Allowing some students to move off-campus would also result in less crowded conditions on campus where some students will be forced to live 4,5,6 to a room A change in policy, allowing off-campus living for SMC stu­dents would also benefit the individual student. It would al­low for greater opportunity for individual freedom and responsi­bility. They feel that some stud­ents are dissatisfied with dorm life and allowing these persons 
to move to a less structured environment would be a distinct advantage. 
It was also pointed out that presently there are a small num­ber of students who find it n~cessary to move off-campus, wtth or without permission, and other students who, dissatisfied with present living conditions, plan to transfer if the present 

.---------------------------, policy is not changed. The Com­mittee for Off-Campus Housing feels it would be unfortunate if these students would be forced 

tion has been an effective and helpful asset to the group's. 

.(continued from page 1)
considerations," the committee withheld for the remainder ofrecommmended that student 


this year. Faccenda said he cut short a
Notre Dame 
trip to Chicago to arrange the

Glee Club 
meeting Sunday morning between Father Hesburgh,
Christmas Concert 
himself, and the Notre Dame Ten. ' 
"I thought we might come to a solution to ban force from campus for the rest of the year," said Faccenda. 
Instead he felt, what was proposed by the ten students a complete . restructuring of ~he· 
NOTRE DAME ITS PEOPLE AND ITS LEGENDS by FRANCIS WALLACE This is the story of the University of Notre Dame from its founding to the present-the story of its people, its traditions, its sports, its great events and achievements and its new ex:pectatio~s. 
1067 ..•.•.... $!).95 
NOTRE DAM£ 

BOOKSTORE 


to leave. 

Interested faculty and stud-ing Thursday at 9:30 in the day ents are asked to attend a meet-students Lounge in Made~va. 

Curriculum changes proposed 
(continued from page 1) 
membership and participation
positive steps to study and im­
should be encouraged on the 
plement a work-study program 
academic committees and coun­
initially on an experimental, col­
cils of the university where such 
lege-determined basis. 
membership and participation
The committee recommended 
would improve the flow of com­
that the international study op­
munications for the benefit of 
portunities for Notre Dame stu­
the total community. The exact 
dents should be expanded and 
nature and extent of such mem­
encouraged and that considera­
bership and participation should 
tion should also be given to 
be determined by the committee 
means of opening such programs 
or council in question.
to students in all colleges of the 
In the field of requirements,
university. 
the committee recommended 
Another recommendation was 
that there be a university-wide
that Notre Dame give higher 
undergraduate requirement of 
priority to environmental im­
six hours credit in theology and 
provement, creating congenial 
philosophy. The specific courses 
places where learning and advis­
to fulfill this requirement will be 
ing can take place-where facul­
approved by a committee of the 
ty members and students may 
deans and department chairmen 
congregate informally and dis­concerned after nominations by the college councils. 

The committee's final recom­mendation was that the univer­sity establish a residential co-edu­cational cross-college program to experiment broadly in innova­tive academic methodology, and to test new educational proce­dures. In order to implement this proposal, it is recommended that a coordinator of such a program, along with an advisory board, be appointed by the Vice-President of Academic Af­fairs, to aim toward establish­ment of the program at the earliest possible date-Septem­ber, 1970, if feasible. 
cuss subjects in aesthetically 




ND students, administration,
pleasing surroundings. Stating that from their own experience, "student participa­

profs plan University Senate 
University's governance in the form of a University Senate, was not what the administration was led to expect would be presented. He did not believe that so radical a proposal could be acted on solely from the benefit of one meeting. Faccenda said he believed that apparently the ten students did not feel that they were part of the University. F a c c en d a added the administration was willing to do "anything within reason" to make the dissident students feel they were part of the university. Faccenda hoped the meeting served to show each side how hard and how earnestly the other side was working to seek a solution to the problems that beset how earnestly the other side was working to seek a solution to the problems that beset He conceded, however, that the two sides were "still pretty far apart" on settling their differences. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage 
Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
. ~ ­

711£ OBSERVER.
WEDNESDAY,DECEMBER1~1969 PAGE 3 
•

Some more fun and games 1n conspiracy trial 
extraterrestial germs that might infect the earth and harm Wednesday. The spokesman said tangled with police when they mankind. None were found, just there were no problems, but that tried to run a Red flag up on an as no lunar germs were found officials wanted to be sure empty pole outside the Bankers following Apollo I I. before giving a go ahead for the Trust Bldg. On Park Avenue. Police moved in to pull down"final biochemical and flight. the flag and as the crowd surged immunological examin"tions The Space Agency tentatively around them, ther officerswere intiiated Tuesday has selected March 12 as the moved in with clubs. One elderly morning," the spokesman said. launch date and Fra Mauro, a man trying to shield a younger"A review of these examinations formation of craters in the man with his arms was struck onwill be conducted Wednesday. foothills of the lunar highlands, the head. All medical findings to this time as the target. It would be a more At least two young men wereindicate the release will be on difficult landing than Apollo hit and dragged from the street,schedule Wednesday." 12's in the flat lunar Ocean of The spokesman said members which sparkled in the lights from Storms.  CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE FOR CARS IN EUROPE To represent CTE in purchase and rental of cars in Europe by students and faculty. Write: CTE 555 Fifth Avenue New York, New York 10017  
YOU REALLY THAT BUSY 11••ARE By spending only one hour over Christmas vacation selling raffle books you can insure that this type of care would be given to those less fortunate throughout the world.  

ClllCAGO (UI'I)-A woman member of the House of 
member of Britain's parliament 
Commons and member of the sang the first har of "We Shall 
British Labor Party, told a U.S. Overcome" in the riot District Court jury and Judgeconspiracy trial yesterday. She 
Julius J. Hoffman of her arrest testified that when she sang the during a melee outside the 
song in a police paddywagon Conrad Hilton Hotel on Aug. 28, during the. 1968 Democratic 1968. National Convention she was .Mrs. Kerr was reprimanded 
sprayed with mace. repeatedly-but softly by Anne Patricia Kerr, 45, a 
Hoffman when she embellished 


Astronauts to end quarantine earlier than was expected 
SPACE CENTER, Houston of a special interagency (UPI) -The Space Agency said government quarantine yesterday it will release the committee "concur on this 
Apollo 12 astronauts from monn release plan and will be polled bug quarantine 18 hours early again by telephone Wednesday." because they are in good health. The committee, and not the 
Charles Conrad, Richard Space Agency, decides when the Gordon and Alan Bean will walk astronauts get out. out of their spacious isolation In Washington, meanwhile, suite in the $15 million Lunar Space Agency officials made a Receiving Laboratory at 3 p.m. final series of checks before EST today ending a quarantine deciding when the third lunar that started last month on the landing mission, Apollo 13, will moon, an agency spokesman fly and where on the moon it said. will land. 
The quarantine was designed The decision, which a to make sure the three moon spokesman said had been pilots were free from any expected Tuesday, was 
postponed to at least 

her testimony. She called demonstrators to the ground and She found a young woman the judge "My Lord" and when heard an arresting officer call a "coughing and choking," she Hoffman asked her how he Negro girl protester "a black said, ahd took her into a hotel should address her properly she bitch" during a melee the same bar and bought her a drink. said, "Just call me Anne." When day in Grant Park. Police ousted occupants of the Hoffman didn't respond to that "It looked like they were bar. chummy suggestion she said, trying to hack their way through On the street, she said, police "You can call me the Honorable the crowd," Miss Myerding, a came up and told her to "move Member for Rochester and student at Temple University in along there or something like Chatham." Philadelphia, said. She added that." She said she told officers, 
"That's a little long," that "no one was standing up" "I'm just talking to these young Hoffman observed dryly. "I'II after the charge by about I 00 people," and then "the just call you Madame Witness." policemen. policemen picked me up and 
Mrs. Kerr testified for the Mrs. Kerr testified she was in threw me into the police defense at the trial of seven a room at the Hilton, watching wagon." anti-war militants charged with the convention and street scenes "That's a fact, my Lord," she conspiring to incite riots during on television, the evening of assured Hoffman. the convention. Aug. 28. She went down to Mrs. Kerr said she stood on 
Earlier Jane Myerding, 19, a Michigan Avenue, she said, and tiptoes and sang through the Quaker coed in braids, testified saw demonstrators paddywagon window. In a clear, she saw police club "experiencing some sort of gas." melodic voice she demonstrated. 


Demonstrators welcome Nixon 
Pro administration
Christmas trees lining the mall
NEW YORK (UPI) -Police demonstrators, who passed out
on Park A venue. Mounted
and antiwar demonstrators literatrue on the streets during
patrols began moving in later.
clashed near the Waldorf Astoria the day, were to begin gathering 
last night minutes before 
The antiwar demonstrators 
at 7 p.m. 
President Nixon's motorcade were joined by others chanting As Nixon's motorcade passedarrived at the hotel for a sports "avenge Fred Hampton," the the United Nations enroute todinner. 
Illinois Black Panther leader shot the hotel, small friendly crowdsThe demonstrators, kept two to death in Chicago last week. waved signs cheering theblocks from the hotel behind Several thousand gathered President and Vice Presidentbarricades so the President 
behind the barricades by 6 p.m. 
Spiro T. Agnew. 
neither heard nor saw them, 
PAGE 4 THE OBSERIIER. WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1969 


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
DONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Publisher GA-ETANO DE SAPIO, Editor 
FOUNDED NCVEMBER 3. 1966 

Pollution 

Pollution is one of the most pressing problems that the American faces. Our rivers, lakes, and streams grow dirtier everyday. The usefulness of these bodies as recreational areas is rapidly deminishing. Their stagnant waters begin to serve as breeding grounds for mosquitos and consequently disease. New life forms are bred from the filth to find their way into our water supplies and so into our homes, our food, and our physiologies. What the· end result of Americans consuming all these filth from our water will be is as of yet unknown. 
At the same time our air becomes more contaminated with each passing minute. Blast furnaces from factories continue on day and night shifts and American automobiles, the worst contaminators of the air pour out their carbon monoxide without cessation. 
There is the distinct possibility that unless mankind begins to work now for the eradiaction of these environmental evils he will awake someday to find out that it is too late. The air will be too polluted and people will be dying at a young age from lung cancer or other related diseases. The water in some major city will be too polluted to drink. It may come out of the faucet 
brown  instead  of  clear  or  containing  some  strange  new  life  form.  
Unbelievable?  Not  really,  because  scientists say  that it is all extremely  
possible.  

What are the chances? An all day conference will be held in the Library auditorium on Thursday, outlining the consequences of man's lack of concern about the waste he is leaving behind him in the air·and water. There are very serious health, as well as ecological implications. Even if we act to combat pollution now, some scientists say, the waste we already have may have perportrated an atrocity upon our environment which may be beyond repair. 
We urge as many students as possible to attend as many of the sessions as possible on Thursday. Pollution will be our problem. Our generation must deal with it for it may mean our lives. We urge students to begin to take an active part in community efforts to combat problems in their home towns as well as in South Bend. A group of graduate students in the engineering school has organized a group wich is working to inform the residents of South Bend on ways of dealing with their pollution problems. The group will meet with South Bend residents and government officials in the South Bend public library Thursday to help draft a bill which would govern all the airlines which service St. Joseph County Airport. We urge that as many students as possible to attend. 
We hope, too, that students will begin to take an active interest in the efforts of national and state governments in the field of air and water pollution. It is time that the vast majority of Americans realize the need for action to stop the pollution snowball. It will take lots of money to effectively stop the pollution of our environment and to clear up the present mess. One way or another American people as a whole are going to have to pay for the efforts, either through taxes to subsidize efforts of industry to provide pollution control devices or by the higher prices that industries will eventual charge to cover their costs of installing the devices on their own. We must affirm right away our willingness to pay the price for clean air, dean water, and a future. 
David Breen, Business Manager Timothy H. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. News Editor: Glen Corso SMC News Editor: Prudence Wear  Photo Editor: Mike Murphy Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Features Editor: Dave Stauffer  The Observer is published daily during the college semester execpt vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St.  
Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Ann Conway. Laura Haferd, and .leanne Sweeney Layout Editor: Mary Beth Crim­ Night Editor: Cliff Wintrode Layout Design: Marty Tieber Headlines: Rich Smith, Tom Law Layout: Mike Bridgeman  Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11 Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre  
mons  Dame,  Ind.,  46556.  


=····································································=.
.
•


~ Tim MacCarry . 
. .•
. . 
.• •
.
.• . 
:• The Green Revolution .. 
The Green Revolution is one answer to the angry "But what are• you kids for, anyway'!" It may be particularly relevant to a campus which retains some sentimental attachment to things Irish· and Catholic, since the Green Revolution is a return to the faith and practice of the mediaeval Irish scholar-monks, and the founders of the Catholic Church. The term comes from the Easy Essays of Peter Maurin, a poor French immigrant who came to the scene of radical ferment that centered around Union Square in New York during the Depression days. With Dorothy Day, he started in 1933 a paper, The Catholic Worker which continues today as does the movement which shortly grew up around them. 
Like many revolutionaries, he made a scathing critique of the present order: "When the banker has the power/the educator trains students/in the technique of profit making./When the banker has the power/the clergyman is expected/to bless the profit-making system/or to join the unemployed. /When the banker has the power/the Sermon on the Mount/is declared unpractical./When the banker has the power/we ha~·e an acquisitive,jnot a functional society. .. A Bourgeois/is a fellow/who tries to be somebody/by trying to be/like everybody,jwhich makes him/a nobody." 
Like the early Christians, the Catholic Workers were "pacifists" in the sense of refusing the use of violence; "anarchists" by refusing to worship or rely on the organized use of force through the state; and "communists" by living in voluntary poverty, sharing goods and denying class distinctions. 
But unlike most revolutionaries and modern "Christians," Peter Maurin looked to the Church for the transformation of men and society; in an Easy Essay called "Blowing the Dynamite," he wrote, ' 
"It is about time/to blow the lid off/so the Catholic Church/may again becorne/the dominant social dynamic force." 
From this ideology came a program: "The Catholic Worker believes/in the gen tie personalism/of traditional Catholicism. f. ..in the personal obligation/of looking after/the needs of our brother./.. .in the daily practice/of the Works of Mercy./. . .in Houses of Hospitality/for the immediate relief of those who are in need./. ..in the establishment/of Farming Communes/where each one works/according to his ability/and gets/according to his need./. ..in cre.atmg a new society/within the shell of the old/with the phzlosophy of the new,/which is not a new philosophv /but a verv old phi/osophy,ja philosophy so old/that it looks like ne.w." · 
Through "Round Table Discussions," the wisdom of scholars would give guidance and clarity of thought; the poor would be served with food, shelter, and clothing; and a renewed sense of contemplation, thoughtfulness, and honest labor would be cultivated on the communal farms. The life style had been known to Indian sages as the Triple Yoga of bhakti, byana, and karma; the Catholic Workers called Cult, Culture, and Cultivation. To the mediaeval Irish monks and Benedictine monastics, it had been the equal division of energies into prayer, study, and work. 
The hospitality houses and farming communes continue to function today, without any formal central organization. But as environmental pollution and the industrialization of agriculture made a Back to the Land movement less attractive, and as the technocractic civilization began to destroy men as much through psychological as by material oppression, Catholic Workers turned from seeking a place away from the corporate society to confronting it directly, through civil rights work, supporting workers' struggles like the grape boycott, and draft resistance. 
The usual response to Peter Maurin's challenge is, "But it won't work." He answered that "Christianity has not been tried/because people thought/it was impractical./And men have tried everything/except Christianity.jAnd everything/that men have tried/has failed. ..The life of Christ must be a life ofsacrifice" -not a life dedicated to effectiveness, or to building, overthrowing, or defending kingdoms of this world. Catholic Workers seek to bear witness through suffering love, in service to the poor -"the Ambassadors of God" -to the faith that "He rose again according to the Scriptures, ascended into Heaven, and sits at the right hand of the Father. He will come again in glory to judge the living and the dead. " <;l1rist is King, the Kingdom of God is among us. That is what 
we are for. 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10,1969 THE OBSERVER. __________!...!PA::!:G~E!::...-",5 
There ought to be a law 
The following is the last in a three-part series on the problems of pollution. This pressing problem of our time will be examined in a Confrerece all day Thursday in the Library Auditorium. In this series, the Observer will interview some of the participants and examine some of the problems. It is written by Steve Effler, an Observer staff reporter. 
Granted that pollution is a growing and important menace, what are we going to do about it? Professor Frederick Dow of the Business School and Dean Lawless of the Law School offer complementary outlines of solutions. 
Professor Dow emphasized the moral role of the American business executive. An executive can have control over the power to pollute of a huge factory_ This "Quantitative difference leads to an ethical difference," i.e. when you are dealing in the realm of thousands of tons or millions of gallons "unconscious malice can he as dangerous as concious malice." 
Clearly the business esewtive is place in a squeeze between the wellbeing of the world and the interests of the corporations stockholders in profit. The "control of Pollution can put a company at a competitive disadvan'tage." Because of this it is clear, according to Dr. Dow, that "what is needed is uniform standards of legislation." 
There are many political problems in pollution legislation. "Pollution is a knee jerk work work ­elicits an emotional response like Raquel Welch or Military Industrial complex." It would be very easy for a politician to gain votes on this issue without really treating the problem. On the other extreme it would be very profitable for one state to relax requirements and attract industry. Such an unscrupulous act would of course gather in immense tax revenues while destroying any efforts of states downstream or nearby to curb pollution. If, for instance, Ohio were to emb:uk on such a course, there is no way in which other states could clean up either the Great Lakes or The Mississippi River. 
Obviously the Federal Government must set up a ruling code or a set of minimum standards. Professor Dow supports the idea of "rigourous but realistic" minimum performance standards. Rather than specifying certain machinery, the government would requirecertain results. Th competition to toea te the cheapest most efficient methods would produce new and better equipment at no expense to the government and to the benefit of alL 
Professor Dow is also a firm believer in the use of tax incentives. Through them, the Government can "skew the economic system in one direction" or another attaining the ideal that "society should allocate the resources of the country for its benefit." 

If it can be conceded then that there must be over all solutions and legislation, what form should it take? Dean Lawless points out that there are many viable legal solutions within our system. He explains how one can use different combinations of administrative boards, criminal penalties and i nj unctions. Different methods offer different advantages in concrete situations. The important thing is that there be an overall plan to avoid such waste effort as is documented by both the Dean and yesterdays New York Times editoriaL 
5A billion dollars of Federal anti-pollution grants has been showed on audit to be wasted. According to Dean Lawless "the General Accounting Office said that little or nothing had been accomplished." The Times gives concrete examples of how it happened: "For example, to lower the municipally produced pollution of Oregon's Willamette River by 20,000 units when two paper mills were allowed to dump up to a hundred times that amount of waste into the same waterway" does little significant good. 
The time is passed for pious words of warning about the possible effects of environmental pollution on future generations. By the time the average Notre Dame student is thirty if Dr. Griffing is right, (and I have heard less conservative estimates) the pollution crisis will be past the point of no return. Lake Erie is already dead. Breathing NY City air is as good for you as a Two-pack-a-day cigarette habit. 
Examples could be multiplied forever. You can pick up some of the basic knowledge about the situation all day Thursday at the Library Auditorium. You can pick the Time reprint on the subject at 402 Fisher HalL 
There is a n1oral imperative for students too. Since we are the future businessmen, engineers, lawyers and community leaders who will try to solve the problem. There's nothing like a foolishly idealistic ending to a newspaper article. 
Following is a list of times for various activities connected with the conference to be held Thursday, December II in the Notre Dame Library Auditorium. 
8:00 a.m.--Introductory remarks by Frederick D. Rossini, Professor of Chemistry. 
8: IS-Geological overview of the pollution 
problem; Raymond Gutschick and Erhard Winkler, Geology Department. 
9:45-The Fresh-water Crisis-An engineering overview of the problem of water pollution; Mark Tenny and Wayne Echelberger, Civil Engineering. 
II: 15-Intermission 

11:30-Pollution and Life-A biological overview of the problem; Thomas Griffing, Biology Department. 
I :00 p.m.--Recess for luncheon. 
2:00-Corporate Responsibility for Environmental Improvement; Frederick Dow, Management. 
3:30-Pollution and Legislation; William Lawless, Law School. 
5:00--Adjournment. 

All students and faculty of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College are cordially invited to attend. 
Your highway taxes at rest, work, and play 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -If you drive for more than 2.7 miles along any one stretch of interstate highway, chances are you will encounter a sign reading "Your Highway Taxes at work." 
I don't know how much these signs cost, but it is obvious that a sizable wad of our sign painting taxes also are at work. 
At any rate, all of us motorists should be extremely grateful to the Bureau of Public Roads, or whoever it is who is responsible for erecting the signs. 
Without them, we might erroneously assume that some contractor was building, improving or repairing the road with his own money_ 
We also should be extremely grateful to D.C. Rogers of Marion, Ill., who has come forth with an idea for spreading this type of informational transmission to other fie-lds of governmental endeavor. 
Sees Workmen Reclining 

One day as Rogers was tooling along an interstate route he saw about a half dozen workmen reclining in the shade of one of the signs. This started him to thinking that the sign should have read: "Your Highway Taxes at Rest." 
And that started him to thinking thusly: 'Why not have signs or badges made for every city, state and federal employe to wear while on the job so we taxpayers would readily be able to distinguish who was doing what?" 
Why not indeed? 

Sociologists tell us that one of the reasons so many taxpayers feel alienated today is because they are unable to figure out what their taxes are doing. 
Better communication along that line might go a long way toward ameliorating the average taxpayer's attitude toward the government. 
Subcommittee Investigation 
Suppose, for example , that some congressional subcommittee is leaving for Paris, France, to investigate the impact of pornographic skywriting on the European Common Market. 
On the side of the Air Force plane carrying the lawgivers on this mission there would be a big sign reading: "Your Tax Dollars Taking a Junkett." 
Or you visit the Commerce 
In doled blood 
DAR ES SALAAM, Tanzania (UP[) ­The Tanzanian Red Cross appealed to leaders through the country to persuade people that the purpose of blood donations was not to provide "vampires" with something to drink. 
Throughout Tanzania a common theory exists that medical clinics and 
Department and find in one of the offices Dollars Being Taken to Lunch by a a sign reading: "Your Tax Dollars Filing Lobbyist." Copies of Form 497 841 B in Triplicate." Signs such as these would give a 
Sign in a Senate hearing room: "Your taxpayer the same good feeling a motorist Tax Dollars Yielding to Pressure from gets when he finds his highway taxes have Special Interest Groups." Sign in a closed two lanes of an interstate highway 
Capitol Hill restaurant: "Your Tax for repairs. 
God is alive and doesn't have to get elected 
I NEW YORK (UP[) -Anyone out only not with your homework." "God is there still subscribing to the "God is forever because lie doesn't have to get dead" bit just hasn't asked a child. elected." "God is in school but He lets 
They not only know He's alive, but the teachers run it." "God is in your they know where to find Him, what He heart and mine, too, I hope." looks like what He does and wants. -What does God look like? "I can't 
Eric Marshall and Stuart Hample have say for sure what God looks like· because put the proof between the covers of a I never saw Him, but the police chief new book, "God is a Good Friend to knows." "God looks like a very smart Have" Simon and Schuster. person but not with glasses." 
"They know nothing of His rumored Nobody to Pray To 
death and decline, of His being the exclusive property of one group over -What do you know about llim? "God another. Never an abstraction to be 
doesn't have anybody to pray to do He's invoked merely in time of crisis. He is a got to mind everybody else's business." constant, com:erncd, faithful companion -What does God do? "God protects all hopefully a friend and a powerful people even the rotten ones. I guess that's addition to their side," they said. okay but I don't see how." "Rainbows Some Questions Asked are what God does to tell,us He still likes Some of the questions asked the us." "God is always listening to children-and some answers: everything. I bet He wishes He could turn -Who is God? "God is whatever you it off sometimes·• 
think He is, but not a girL" "God is the -What does God want? "God wants only one who never has a birthday you to grow up and make new people for because He was the first one." "God is Him to be God of." 
who tells you when you have to die and it One youngster suggested that there doesn't matter how old you are either." must be a cat and dog God, too, because -Where do you find God? "God is 'fl don't think they could five without 
always around when you need helping one." 
blood donation stations are "a front" for 
mumianis  vampires  who lure  people  
inside  to  drain  out  their  blood  for  
drinking.  
"People  must  be  taught  that  blood  

giving is a life saving process," said Red Cross Director Miraji KapitenL 
PAGE 6 
Letters to the Editor 
With hope 

Dear Father Heshurgh, 
Can you possibly reali?e the implications of not only what you are doing to me and the others who must face the Ap­peals Court on Thursday, but what you are doing to yourself and to this university? 
We were preparing our court defense in ordt::r to confront the university with what we felt were its unchristian actions. Mr. Faccenda informed us that he and the administration felt that we were trying to force them into a corner. We discussed tht:: matter and dt::cided that the creation of a university senate with equal administration, fa­culty, and student representa­tion, and the power to deter­mine the policy which a Christ­ian university should practice, might get at what we felt was one of the central problems at Notre Dame-that the decision making process, the ultimate power for decisions--is in the hands of people on the peri­meter of the Christian university and not ultimately involved in the Chril;tian community. We informed Mr. Faccenda about this and he agreed to call a meeting. We asked specifically that you be present. You elected not to come. At the meeting we presented our proposal without any mention of the trial or its outcome. We weren't looking for amnesty-we were suggesting a constructive course for a Christ­ian university to follow. The purpose of the meeting was blur­red after the first half hour. 
, 

It was disheartening. We de­cided after the meeting to go talk with you. The gist of our conversation went something like this: "Hello, Father, could we please talk with you?" "I'm in a meeting now boys. Who are you?" "We are five of the people who were suspended/expelled. Do you think we could talk to you later'!" "I have a lot of work 
to do and I've been in meetings all day." "Father, we feel that we must talk to you." "I can't get involved in the trial now. It must go through the normal procedures. I don't want to pre­judice it." "We don't want to talk about the trial, Father, but rather about our proposal." "Oh, you mean that thing at the continuing education center. I had my representative there and he will tell me about it." "That is what we are afraid of, Father. We can't seem to reach you on a personal level." "Well, I'll talk to my representative. I don't want to get involved in this until I have to. When the time comes I will examine the issues." "Fa­ther, you are already involved and we all know it." "I'll exa­mine the matter when it comes to me. Good bye boys. Oh, by the way who are you" You got our names and shook our hands and summarily dismissed us. 
You might as well've asked for 
I.D. numbers. You made us objects. By doing that, Father, you can easily dismiss us from your corporation because you deny us the respect of being human, of being equal, being one in Christ. When you deny the God in me you can do as you please. But whom have you really hurt? 
I submit that it is yourself also that you have turned into an object, a machine. As John Donne said: "Any man's death diminishes me, because I am involved in mankind; and there­fore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee." In war the bell tolls for you the warrior, always the tar­get at the end of your gun. This is not war, but you have effect­ively killed, nay murdered me, by turning me into an object. More 
serious yet you have killed your­self and have further intensified the destruction (not disruption) 
One Show Only

1:15P.I. 

of the Christian !if e. With hop6, John Wiltz 1 29 Howard Hall 
Pray for O'Meilia 

Editor: 
I think that it would be advisable to keep Tim O'Meilia 's article, "Which Game?", for posterity. ll is quite evident that if placed in the genre of disgusting misanthropic "litera­ture", it would have no equal. 
I shall pray for Mr. O'Meilia, although I'm sure that he will scoff at the idea. Perhaps, someday, he will no longer be filled with hate. 
I also would be quite in­terested in hearing Mr. O'Meilia's reasons for attending Notre Dame. It certainly cannot be because of his love for the institution. 
Maryanne foster '73 ­
211 Regina North 
Worst season Editor: Now that the 1969 home football season is over, I would like to thank du Lac for the worst football season I have experienced so far in my 5 years here. The reason for saying this is entirely based on the seating arrangement in the stadium. They do away with individually reserved seats and give you a reserved section to go to. Then they oversell the number of tick­ets for the game and put the extra people in the seats the St. Mary's girls used to occupy, making no compensation for the girls who will be sitting in the student section. As a result, you're cramped into a space a four year old couldn't fit into. Many have to stand in the aisles, which makes it impossible for those who are fortunate enough to have a seat to see. This results in everyone standing in everyone else's way. 
Earlier I mentioned we had sections to sit in--well, we're supposed to anyway. I guess everyone but juniors and gradu­ate students do-they havt> to put up with the grossest bunch of animals I have ever seen the Vikings. Most of them are fresh­men and sophomores, but they're in the junior-graduate section. They stand the whole game forcing everyone behind them to stand too. Eve one pays for the same things around here, and the only thing this place has going for it gives it to you in the ear. Thanks to all this, I can't say I have enjoyed one game this year. I can only hope that they react to the situation, and give up their mer­cenary tactics, particularly when they apply them to the back­bone of Notre Dame-the stu­dents, all the students, not just a few. I'll be graduating in June with my masters, but I felt 
something had to be said by 
someone. Thanks for your time. 
Sign me 
glad it's over. 
Aristotle Award 

Editor: 
The Aristotle Award for 1969 

to the first person who can 
logically and unemotionally ex­
plain to me why we must send a 
Miss Notre Dame to the Cotton 
Bowl, and why she must be a St. 
Mary's student. 
Ted Price 
309 Pangborn 
Uncouth spectators 

Editor: 
Re: Romeo and Juliet. Having 

just returned from the St. Mary's 
Notre Dame Theatre production 
of Shakespeare's Romeo and 
Juliet, we feel compelled to ad­
dress this letter to the "academ­
ic" community. 
We are appalled and scandal­ized by the boorish comportment of the uncouth spectators who comprised the opening-night house. Their crudeness was con­sistently displayed throughout the performance by the inane titters and untimely guffaws at such climactic moments as 'The Balcony Scene.' Mercutio's tragic death, the sc{·ne of Juliet's drathbed, and the dramatic sui­cide of Romeo. Despite flaws in the production, certainly the in­herent qualities of culture and refinement befitting the members of an "educated" canail~ should have mastered their first Impulses in order to retain a dignified 
Perhaps the only solution to this dilettantism would he to offer a co-ex course treating the distinction bet ween Moliere and The Three Stooges, bet ween Shakespeare and soap opera, and 
between Wedgwood and plastic. Sincerely yours, Annette Marie Weidhaas Margaret Mary Kelly 
More familiar 

Editor: 
Of the reviews that I have seen in your paper, the majority are derogatory and disenhearten­ing to an actor. The best exam­ple is the reviews of the ND-SMC productions. The critic did not care for "Who Bombed in New Haven"; yet all that I heard from the audiences were compliments. The same is true of "Romeo and, Juliet". 
I would like to encourage Mr. Tapscott to be a little more familiar with characters in plays. I am forced to question whether or not he has ever conscientious­ly read the script. I have seen this production being put to­gether and the final product. It is a good production. It may have some awkward scenes, but I hardly consider the swordfights "graceless" or performances "sluggish". 
In case you haven't heard, Mr. Tapscott, critics are allowed to say something complimentary about more than just a good-looking girl. Maybe the only compliments you care to give are for revealing costumes. 
Chuck Capples 
"Disruption" 

Editor: 
There appeared, in your Dec. 

2 issue, a request for a meeting 
with persons who may have 
witnessed the "I 5 minute In­
cident." This solicitation ap­
peared under bold-face type in 
which the solicitors proclaimed 
themselves to he members of a 
"committee" whose avowed pur­
pose was the prevention of 
"disn-1ption" to the University. 
Now no one including myself -as a member of a "committee" or otherwise-claims to he opposed to this noble goal. However, there are at least a few of us at Notre Dame Law School who feel that stat ments formulated for pub­lication, particularly statements concerned with a pl·nding quasi­-judicial pnll"et•ding, should be characterized hy temperance and objectivity, rather than by emotional appeals which almost certainly will have the effect of conditioning the viewpoint of the community in which the proceeding is to lake place. 
(It is doubly rL'grettahle that 

a member of the legal fraternity 
itself would allow himself to fall 
into so gross an mdiscretion. 
Sincerely, 
Michael J. Masterson 
N.D. Law School Class of '70 




Splros Men's Shop 
since 1891 
downtown South Bend s3.s4.s5oo 
Clothing by Hart,·Sbaffner and Marx, Van Heusen, 
TICKETS NOW ON SALE 

Pendleton and·Jantzen
AT BOX-OFFICE 11 to 5 HURRY FOR CHOICE SEATS 

Grad students initiate forum on environment 

by Shawn Hill 
"Manktnd has lost the ability to foresee and forestall. lie will end by destroying the earth." 
This quotation from Albert Schweitzer headed the flyer announcing the initial meeting of the "Forum on the Environment" on the Notre Dame campus. 
The Forum on the Environ­ment is an organization founded to inform N.D. and SMC stu­dents and South Bend residents about the dangers of environ­mental pollution and to work to control this pollution. 



Begin work-study plan 
The Urban Studies Institute, in cooperation with the Kennedy Institute, is initiating 
work/study  programs  for  
undergraduates  beginning  next  
semester.  

The main purpose of the new work/study programs is to give a student the opportunity to learn experientially from a community-based assignment in which he may become involved. By working in the field, the student will be forced to understand the urban situation in telledually and then act on that understanding. 
At present there are approximately twenty public and private agencies and private businesses and industries in the South Hend an:a concerned about urban problems which have expressed an interest in involving students in their work. 
l"he work studies programs make it possible for a student to receive academic credit for community work. Depending on the nature of each work/study project and the policy of his 

L.A. 'Peace Keepers' 
LOS ANGELES (UPI) 
Police issued volunteer "peace 
keeper" identification badges 
yesterday to residents of south 
central Los Angeles, scene 24 
hours earlier of a five hour gun 
battle between police and mem­
bers of the Black Panther party. 
e rs were wounded Monday 
when 300 officers laid siege to 
the Panther headquarters. Twen­
ty one members of the black 
militant group were arrested, in­
cluding eight taken 
in to cus t ody at two other lo­
cations without resistance. 
Yesterday residents of the be­
sieged area began showing up at 
poilice division headquarters ask­
ing if there was any way they 
could help keep the peace, po­
lice said, and officers began dis­
tributing lapel identification 
tags. 
Police radios broadcast the message: "Many public spirited citizens have volunteered to assist in maintaining calm in our com­
munity by their presence on streets in patrol area two. These persons will be identified by wearing Los Angeles Police De­partment identification tags. Their sole fucntion is to keep the peace by their presence and 
persuasion. 
Assistant Police Chief Robert Houghton, who headed the raid­ing party, said it was the result of a series of incidents in recent department, a student can be given credit toward his major. 
There are also summer opportunities availa~Je, involving work in federal, state or local agencies. Such work may also be 
considered for academk credit.,---------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
In order to work in any federal civil service projects, students must take the dvil service examinations. There are deadlines f('>r filing for sum and year round civil servi employment. 
Interested students should 
contact Dave Young of the
Kennedy Institute at 2H3--6H69 or Professor Thomas Borden Director of the Urban Studies Institute, at 2H3--1112 for information about work/study programs or civil positions. 
It is hoped that such programs will foster a deeper awareness and concern among students f · the urban environment in which 
they live and study, and will help them channel their interes and efforts in the community. 
This organization was started this year by Notre Dame grad students Joseph Pavoni and Richard Murley after attending a conference on pollution in Wash­ington, D.C. Oct. 22 through 26 sponsored by the Institute for the Study of Health in Society. 
The Institute for the Study of Health in Society is a nation­wide organization of students interested in fighting pollution. To do this the Institute works from the top down with the government and from the bot­tom up with concerned citizens. 
In its work with the govern­ment, the Institute for the Study 
c.f Health in Society supports 
been lured into ambushes. fore dawn Monday 300 officers wearing black overalls and base­ball caps surrounded the two story storefront building, while ambulances and emergency ve­hicles pulled into nearby streets. 


/lore/co· 
$54.95 
NOTRE DAM£ BOOKSTOR£ 
.L 

1.,CHAIKOVSKY 
Piano Concerto No. 1 
GILELS/CHICAGO SYMPHONY REINER 
•••••m!J•••••••••••• 
' 



STRAUSS 
ALSO SPRAC'H ZARATHUSTRA 

FRANCK 
REINER/CHICAGO SYMPHONY 
Symphony in D Minor
Includes: Theme Music from the Film 
2001 1\ Space Odyssey 
tne passage of a bill before Con­gress to set up a Council of Environmental Affairs similar to the Council of Civil Advisors already in existence. 
This Council would review legislation affecting the environ­ment and advise the various leg­islators corH.:erning such legislat­ion's beneficial or detrimental effects. The effect of a new freeway on the land would be an example of this. 
It is to work from the bottom up that Murley and Pavoni founded the Forum on the En­vironment and they hope that the Forum will grow to include a large number of undergraduates. 
They stated that the main purpose of the Forum was to organize a group of people who would be willing to go into South Bend and to inform the 
citizens about the pollution dan­gers in the area and to work with them to solve the problems. 
The next meeting of the For­um on the Environment will be this Thursday (Dec. II) evening in the South Bend Community Library. The members will meet with a group drafting a County Air Pollution Control Ordinance and interested South Bend resi­dents. 
They hope to influence the final draft of the bill and plan to work for its passage. 
This meeting is supported and will be attended by members of the South Bend County Health Department, members of the St. Joseph County Hospital Staff, a prominent South Bend attorney, and a legislative assistant to Con­gressman John Brademas. 
Both Pavoni and Murley hope that as many Notre Dame and St. Mary's students as possible will show interest and attend the meeting. 
They feel it could be the evening program of the pollution seminar held that day in the Notre Dame Library auditorium. 
Future plans for the Forum in dude an en vi ron men tal Teach-In on pollution to be held April 22. The idea for this teach-in was suggested by ~enator Caylord Nelson of Wis­consin during the conference in Washington. 
It is to be nation-wide and l'avoni and M urlcy hope the Forum can make it into a suc­cess in the South Bend area. 
Murley said that he is hopeful for the success of this and other programs across the country but time is running out. 
"The real problem is populat­ion, pollution being a symptom of it," he said. 
He gave the example of an air pollution control device for automobiles that reduces pol-Jution by 50%. 
"If such a device reduces pol­lution by 50% when installed, but the number of autos doubles in the next year you are back where you started from," he said. 
BEE'fHC)VENSYMPHC)NYNC). 5 

SCHUBER'f SYMPHONY 
N(), 8 "Unfinished" 
BC)S'rC)NSYMPHC)NYMUNCH 

months when police officers had~,______________ 


Giant Sale on Classical Records at the Notre Dame Bookstore 
_.J 

THE OBSERJJER. 




Nixon gets trophy but decides to stay a fan 
NEW YORK (UPI)-A sub­stitute college football player, who speaks proudly of watching his college games from the bench, will upstage an all time coach and eight superstars to­night when he receives the Gold Medal from the National Foot­ball Foundation and Hall of Fame. 
President Nixon, a sub during his playing days at Whittier Col­lege, Calif., will be awarded the foundations's highest honor dur­ing a dinner at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel. Archibald Mac­Leish, Pulitzer prize winning poet, will get the foundation's National Distinguished American Award. 
Former Presidents Eisenhower and Kennedy and former sup­reme commander of Allied forces in the Southwest Pacific during World War II, Douglas MacArthur, were previous recipi­ents of the Gold Medal Award. 
While President Nixon has few memories of personal glory on the college gridiron, he will he moving in fast football company as the foundation inducts a great coach and eight former stars. into its Hall of Fame. 
Charles "Bud" Wilkinson, who compiled a 139 27 4 record during 17 years as coash of the University of Oklahoma and later served President Kennedy as head of the physical fitness program, will be inducted into the coaching Hall of Fame. Wil­kinson is currently serving as a special assistant to President Ni-
JIM MURRAY 
Golf Alive and Well and Living in Latrobe 


© 1969, Los Angeles Times 
We bring you today a medical bulletin direct from the critical ward and intensive care unit of Sports. You can put away the beads, and hold the flowers, and call off the death watch. 
Golf is able to sit up and take nourishment. 
For the first time, doctors hold out hope for its complete recovery. Respiration normal, pulse stronger, temperature falling. They've removed the oxygen tent. 
You will remember Golf came down with an 82 and a medically baffling disorder of the hip and backswing last summer, and took to its bed. Prognosis was not good. Some thought the case terminal. Others felt a long and painful road back was the best to hope for. 
Well, Golf is alive and well and living in Latrove, l'a. When last seen it was wearing a tan sweater, two-tone shoes, and knocking in 30-foot putts. 
Golf's given name is Arnold Palmer. Sometimes, it is little telltale things that indicate to a doctor a patient is on the road to recovery -a movement of a blanket, flutter of an eyelid, spot of color on a cheek. Sometimes, the patient just comes to and asks what day :t is. 
A Dazzling 68 
They new Golf was on the mend when Palmer jerked a 3-wood out of the bag and asked the caddy to go up and hold the pin. They knew Golf was on the way hack when Palmer had a choice of going under a tree or around it-·-and he went THROUGH. They knew Golf was recuperating when he shot a 68 on a course so tough that--on the last day when only good players were left--no one broke par, two shot 80, and nearly a half-dozen shot 77's. The host pro had trouble breaking 100. 
If you think I've got my patients mixed, that the two are not interrelated, that Palmer might he sick but Golf was healthy, don't sell that to Larry Ziegler. During the period when Golf was on the shelf, Larry won his only tournament. And there wasn't enough money to pay off. 
Guys who were bidding up the purses to the stratosphere when Palmer and Jack Nicklaus were matching birdies suddenly stopped answering the phone. Golf is a game where you have to play off someone's ball. Even in a $2 Nassau, you arrange the match and the bets around the best player. Golf without Palmer is anarchy. There's no one's ball to play off of. 
The encouraging fever chart is not Palmer's alone. For, 1969 was a year the Golden Bear went into hibernation, too. Jack Nicklaus wasn't laid up, but his game was. 
In the past month and a half, only a handful of tournaments have been played. But two have been won by Nicklaus, and, now, one has been won by Palmer. 
Palmer Is News 
They don't need the money, but the game of Golf does. When 
Palmer wins a tournament, the game gets on the six o'clock news, 
the "A" wire. When someone else wins, he phones his wife·--and 
she's out. 
You not only need someonl•'s ball to play off of, you need 
someone to play off of it. Hagen had Sarazen, Hogan had Sneed. 
Nelson had Guldahl. And Palmer has Nicklaus. If Billy Casper can 
get his game going, they ·could push the Super Bowl down to "Last 
Night's Results." 
The game is in !radian in periods bet ween major makhups. It 
may even be pronouneed dead. But, at the momenl, hear! massage 
has worked. The heart is pumping again. This will he good news to 
motel owners at Augusta, television nt'!works in New York, and even 
though they may not think of it, to 50 other golfers who not only 
have something tangible to beat now but an assured payoff of I00 
cents on the dollar if they do. 
xon. 
The players being inducted into the Hall of fame are Chuck Bednarik, University of Penn­sylvania center, 1945-48; George Cafegu, University of Tennessee tailback, 1938-39; Edwin "Babe" Horrell, University of California center, 1922-24; Les Horvath, Ohio State hack, 1940-44; Larry Kelley, Yale end, 
1934-36; the late William "Wild Bill" Kelly, University of Mon­tana quarterback, I924-26; John Kitzmiller, University of Oregon halfback, 1927-29, and Gerald Mann, Southern Methodist quarterback, 1925-27. 
Also to be honored are scholar athletes Ted Shadid of the U.S. Military Academy, Dan Pike of the Naval Academy, Charles Longnecker of the Air force Academy, Terry Stewart of Arkansas, Randy Reeves of Nebraska, John Cramer of Har­vard, Harry Khasigian of South­ern California, George Joseph of Pennsylvania, Tim Callaway of (;eorgia, Harry Gonso of Indiana 
and Michael Oriard of Notre Nixon presenting a plaque to Dame. Texas as the nation's No. I team afters it 15-14 victory over Ar­
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Presi­

kansas Saturday.
dent Nixon acknowledged at his 
Nixon made reference to the

news conference Monday night 
criticism he stirred up in point­
that from now on he will know 
ing out that although the na­
better than to pick the No. I 
tion's youth haven't agreed with
college football team. 
him, they have listened. "I learn­
Penn State, which has the 

ed not to pick No. 1 as far as
longest major college unbeaten 
football is concerned," he said.
streak, took strong exception to 

ND to battle Huskies tonight 
The Northern Illinois Huskies invade the Convo tonight with a losing record but plenty of good credentials. Last Monday night, NIU gave the highly-rated Ohio State Buckeyes a scarr before going down 106-99. And OSU had to shoot 36-40 free throws to do it. 
Leading the Huskies is 6-4 forward Larry Zielinski who though only a sophomore is drawing plenty of raves in DeKalb. Last year, he lead the frosh with a 29.4 average and 
has continued a similar scoring pace this year. Overall, the Huskies are young and fairly small, but they've played will in all their games. Now ranked 16th by UPI, Notre Dame will enjoy a decided height advantage, as at Valpo last Saturday. Another fine performance on the boards will be necessary to sotop the Huskies. Austin Carr, with a string of three 30-point performances, leads Irish scoring with a 3 5. 7 average. 
Kentucky Wildcats named No.I 
NEW YORK (UPI)-The Ken­tucky Wildcats and veteran men­tor Adolph Rupp never seem to run out of challenges even though the baron of college basketball ranks as one of the most widely decorated members of the coaching fraternity. 
There are several big challeng­es entering the new season. One is a fifth national championship; the other is a winning season despite the loss of Mike Casey, the team leader of the Wildcats who broke a leg in an automo­bile accident during the summer and won't return this year. 
UCLA, also 2-0, got 14 first place votes and 270 points for the No. 2 spot while South Carolina, ranked second in the pre-season ratings, dipped to fourth after suffering a 55-54 setback at the hands of Tenne­ssee. 
New Mexico State, picking up three wins in the first week of the new campaign, moved from fifth to third. The Aggies re­ceived three first place votes and a total of 222 points. The re­maining first place votes went to Ohio State. Points are awarded on a I 0 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 basis. 
Southern California, using im­pressive victories over Colorado and Vanderbilt to collect strong voting support, jumped from ninth into a tie for fifth with Duquesne, both wirh 119 points. 
Davidson 2-0 climbed a notch to seventh followed by North Carolina 2-0. Tennessee played only one game but the Vol's stunning upset of South Carolina lifted the Volunteers from the list of the also rans to the No, 9 ranking. 
Villanova and Ohio State shared the No. 10 position with 53 points each. 
The Wildcats got a running start toward b()th goals the past 
Final UPI pigskin poll
weekend with a pair of impres­
sive victories which vaulted them past South Carolina and UCLA in the first weekly United Press International major college bas­ketball ratings. 
Kentucky, with wins over Kansas and West Virginia, re­ceived I 7 first place votes from the 35 member UPI Coaches Rating Board and a total of 316 points to displace pre-season nominee UCLA as the nation's No. I ranked team. 
NEW YORK (UP!)-First weekly major college basketball ratings of 1969-70 season with number of first place votes and team records in parentheses. 
Team Points 
I. 2. 3. 4. 5. 
7. 8. 9. 
Kentucky ( 17) 3-0 UCLA (14) 2-0 N.M. St. (3) 3-0 So. Carolina I-I Tie So. Cal. 2-0 Tie Duquesne 3-0 Davidson 2-0 No. Carolina 2-0 Tennessee 1-0 

10. Tie Villanova 2-0 Tic Ohio St. (I) 2-0 
12. Tic Santa Clara 2-0 
Tic Louisville I -0 14. Marquette 2-0 
18. Colorado 3-1 19. Western Ky. 2-0 20. Tic St. Bnvntre Tic Jcksnvl 2-0  23 15 1-0 13 13  
Others:  Receiving  five  or  more  

points: Washington, St. John's, N.Y., Drake, LaSalle, Florida State, Utah Slall', Cincinnati, K<Jnsas State, Ohio U., Louisiana Stale. ' 
points awarded on a 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 basis on votes from first through I Oth. 
NEW YORK (UPI)-The Uni­ted Press International top 20 major college football teams of I969 with first place votes and won-lost-tied records in paren­theses. Twelfth and final week. 
Team Points  
I.  Texas (28) I 0-0  333  
2.  Penn St. (4) 10-0  279  
3.  Arkansas 9-1  221  
4.  So. Cal. (I ) 9-0-1  212  
5.  Ohio St. 8-1  203  
6.  Missouri 8-1  190  
7.  Louisiana St. 9-1  98  
8.  Michigan 8-2  97  
9.  Notre Dame 8-1-I  71  
10.  UCLA 8-1-1  46  
II.  Tennessee 9-I  33  
12.  Nebraska (I) 8-2  22  
13.  Mississippi 7-3  21  
14.  Stanford 7-2-1  16  
15.  Auburn 8-2  15  
16.  Houston 8-2  8  
17.  Florida 8-1-1  2  
18.  Tie Purdue 8-2  I  
Tic x-S.D. St. I 0-0  I  
Tie West Vir. 9-1  I  

Only 34 of the 35 member coaches board voted this week. 
x-Does not include 28-7 Pasadena BowI victory over Boston University. 
NEW YORK (UPI)-Texas to­day begins its reign as champion of college football. 
The Longhorns, who needed some last period heroics to stop stubborn Arkansas, 15-14, Satur­day, were named college foot­ball's 1969 national champions Monday by the United Press International Board of Coaches. 
Texas received 28 first place votes from the 34 ballots cast. One coach did not participate in the balloting. 
"Great, that's wonderful," said Texas Coach Darrell Royal when informed that his team had t<Jken the national cham­pionship. "I was sweating it out. 
I'm happy for myself, the coach­
316 

ing staff, the players and the
270 

university."
222 
Penn State, unbeaten in 29
123 

games over a three year span,
I 19 

finished No. 2 in the balloting,
119 

followed by Arkansas, Southern
108 

California, and Ohio State.
85 

Missouri was sixth, with Louis­
76 

iana State, Michigan, Notre
53 

Dame and UCLA rounding out
53 

the top 10. 46 Five coaches from each of the 46 seven geographical areas of the 
37 nation comprise the UPI ratings
I 5. Purdue 1-1 
31 board. Each week they select the
16. Notre Dame 3-0 
27 top I 0 teams in the nation, with 
17. Illinois 2-0 24 



