
Trustees respond to McKenna's proposals 
by Cliff Wintrode The Board fe)j that a m~mbtrr. as "positive achievements for aD 
"The Trustees became more ought to have a complete concerned at Notre Dame. Mj aware of the needs and interests disinterest in the judgements of only additional hope is that the of students," said Student Body the Board and "should not committee agrees with our President Phil McKenna last represent any special class or philosophy • that student affaiiS night indicating a general feeling group, however meritorious." is a term applicable to all of satisfaction with the Board of McKenna commented on university affairs, since Trustee's responses to the seven these ideas. everything that takes place at proposals he presented to them "I still can not understand Notre Dame does, in some at their October 2 meeting. how the interests of the students degree, affect students." 
The Board's decisions and which are essentially for the McKenna said the Board's their rationale for each decision betterment of the University can decision to provide after each were made known to McKenna conflict with the interests of the meeting a release describinJ 
Friday when he received a letter Trustees which I presume are what took place at that meetin1 from Edmund Stephan, also essentially for the was "quite satisfactory to our Chairman of the Board of betterment of the University." desires." Trustees. Stephan related that the The Board determined that 
McKenna said that he has Board divided the Educational the names of all companies in drafted a letter indicating his and Student Affairs Committee which we carry investments reactions to the Board's into the Educational Committee would be made available on or decisions which he will send to and the Student Affairs about November I, 1969. 
Stephan. Committee. He added that the The Board revealed its 
Student representation on the Board provided for investment philosophy as to Board was denied because of an representation of students on "gain the maximum income and incompatibility "with the the Student Affairs Committee appreciation for the University's 
underlying principles on which with full voting privileges. operations and capital needs 
the Board has been constituted." McKenna viewed these actions consistent with the preservation of the principal of our funds and in keeping with ethical standards." 
McKenna replied that he was 
Edmund Stephan sent Board's response to McKenna on Friday
"q ui t e satisfied" with the Trustee's answers. Stephan said he was informed 
New Judicial Code is
that the University holds stock in Dow Chemical, Gulf, Standard Oil of New Jersey, and 

to be voted on today
Standard Oil of California. 

b Th B h ld dent, a Resident Assistant ano aThe Board considered the 
Y omas orn .o t resident of the hall, selected by request that "any matters 
The Student Life Council will the Hall Council. 
concerning the financial status 

discuss and vote on the Notre The proposed Appeals Court,
of the University be accessible to 

Dame Judicial System and Code would hear any appeal concern­
the Student Body President" to 

at its meeting this afternoon at ing a ,conviction by either the 
be inappropriate for action. 

4: IS in the Center for Continu-University Court or the Student 
The Board concluded that the ing Education. Judicial Court. Before a trial dates and frequency of Student Several of the aspects of the could be held, questions of juris­Affairs Committee meetings Judicial Code, as drawn up by diction mu:;t be decided by this should be left to the the Judicial Code Committee of court. It will consist of one "determination of the Comittee the Student Life Council under student, one faculty member, after it is constituted." The Chairman Leslie G. Foschio, are and one administrator, all ap· specific agenda for each meeting up for consideration and include pointed by the Student Life likewise it was felt should not be these basic points. Council. The Appeals Court predetermined. The Code's three different would have complete power to 
McKenna concluded in part types of courts on campus: the reverse a verdict or demand a the letter he drafted to Stephan Hall Judicial Boards, the Univer-new hearing. by expressing "my gratitude to sity Court, and the Student Judi-In complaints involving Hall you and your fellow trustees for cial Court. Judicial Boards, the accused per-the gracious reception and Of these the most important son could see his Hall Rector 
attention that was given myself for the average student living on before the hearing and ask for a and other students. I sincerely· campus will be the Hall Judicial summary disposition of the case, believe that we all have a deep Board. This court will try any i.e. pleading guilty or not guilty, 
dedication to Notre Dame." offense committed within resi-upon which the Rector examines dence halls. It will be composed the facts and makes a decisiQn. of five students selected by the Likewise, a student accused of Hall Rector, Hall Judicial Ad vis-violating a University regulation or and Hall Judicial Chairman. not under the jurisdiction of a
Senate -HPC conflict explained 
The University Court would Hall Judicial Board could see the be responsible for trying stu-Dean of Students for a summary by Mark Nelson dents accused of any of a list of ·disposition of his case. If the serious school offenses which, student then wished to appeal
Tom Suddes, President of the ballots were then to be 
was all they had to do." 

with the exception of disorderly the decision of the dean, heHoly Cross llall and Chairman of turned in to be recounted by the 
Mahoney also said, "I think 

or disruptive disturbances or would have to go to the Appealsthe Hall Presidents Council, said Committee. 
that the halls should be able to 

demonstrations, are felonies. Court.
yesterday that th<.: controversy The controversy arose when 
carry on their own elections. We 

This court will consist of two A penalty imposed by thein the Senate elections was "a Mahoney put a lock on the box 
wanted to print our own ballots, 

students, two faculty members, Appeals Court might be softenedmisunderstanding, and containing the Keenan ballots. 
count them, burn them, and 

and two administrators, all cho-by the Dean of Students, buteverything should be cleared up The Election Committee broke 
turn in the results. There would 

sen by the Student Life Council. ,_.rl>U.ot...,ne""'v"'e,._,rs..,e:.::d:.:..·--------.
by the next election." Mahoney's lock and opened the 



have been no chance for fraud, The Student Judicial Court
Suddes said the whole thing box. 

because there was a would be responsible for the
started several weeks before the Mahoney commented that 
representative for each candidate trying of any student accused of
election, when Keenan Hall "the whole problem was iack of 
at the counting. In all, ten a university offense not under
president Tim Mahoney and communication. We were not 

people examined each the jurisdiction of either the Hall 
Mike Lindberg, president of actually told when the ballots 

ballot." Judicial Boards or the University
Breen-Phillips llall, brought a had to be turned in, and Keenan 

NEW ELECTION Court. This court will consist of
suggestion before the Election was holding the ballots for a 
five members and five alternates, 

Committee to allow the twenty-four hour challenge Walsh Hall's Senatorial Elec­
appointed by the Student Body

individual halls to count their period, so that a recount would tion has been invalidated be­
President and Judicial Coordina­

ballots, and just turn in the be granted for any candidate cause of a drop in population in 
tor.

results to the Committee. wishing one. the hall. Walsh is entitled to only 
The proposed Code provides

The suggestion that the halls "So when we were told to one senator, while two were 
for a student appeal of a convic­

be allowed to turn in only the turn in the ballots, I put a lock elected in Thursday's voting. 
tion if he desires. If he has been 

results was defeated hy a 5-l on the box until the twenty-four The new election will be held 
convicted by the Hall Judicial

margin by the Committee, with period was up. However, the on Thursday and will involve all 
Board, he would make his appeal 

no reason given for the decision. Committee broke open the box three of Walsh's candidates, Jeff 
to the llall Appeals Board,

The halls were allowed, however, and counted the ballots, rather King, Fred Lochhinder and John 
which consists of the Hall Presi­

to count their own ballots, but than ask us our count, which Bruhda. 
HESBURGH'S STAND 
Father Hesburgh made his position on the war very clear Friday after­noon as he introduced Senator Charles Goodell to a group of over 350 stu· dents in Stepan Center. 
"If I had the wisdom and the power I wot1ld stop the war tonight he­fore midnight," Hesburgh stated. 
The remark was fol­lowed by over twenty seconds of applause. 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1969

THE OBSERfiER
PAGE 2 

LaFortune vandalism becoming major problem 
by Mark Walbran courtyard's wrought iron furni­
the ballroom, ripped out win­
ture have been stolen.

Vandalism and theft in the dow screens, refuse tossed from In addition, Cashore reportedLaFortune Student Center have the second floor men's lavatory that the cigarette machine andbecome "serious problems," ac­window outside, and breakage of the drinking fountain in thecording to Tom Cashore, the the light fixture in the north Rathskellar were damaged. Chairs center's student manager. The hall way near the ballroom. 
in the vending machine roomlatest incidents occured Satur­Cashore also reported that a were overturned and garbageday night after a party in the fire was started in the courtyard from the disposal cans wasFiesta Lounge of the student of the Student Center. A lighted strewn on the floor.
clmter. cigarette was put in the uphol­"Three purses have beenThese incidents included over­stery of a chair. He said that stolen this weekend," Cashoreturned furniture, glass on the evidence suggests that the fire said in an interview Sunday.
stairway to the main ballroom, was "not accidental." He also "Two were stolen Saturdayashtrays dumped on the floor of said that cushions from the night, and one 45 minutes ago." 
• 

Although drinking alcoholic beverages in LaFortune is strict­ly prohibited, Cashore said much drinking is going on. After Satur­
Craj'tsmcn in Optin 

day night's party beer and liqour 
bottles were around the walls 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGlASSES AND CONT4CT LEN~S 

and in waste baskets of the Fiesta Lounge.
THE SHERLAND BLDG.·-132 S. MICHIGAN ST.-·I\.l:ntral2-14681' 
Cashore said these were not the first incidents of vandalism. On Saturday, October 4th, a glass topped table in the Fiesta 


Lounge was broken and the glass
M~in Office: 13!; N. Wabash Ave.··Chicaqo 

BLOOD, SWEAT & TEARS 
Tickets on sale ACC Box Offke, Gilbert's, Bookstore 






r--------------------------------------L-------___;:....___:__....:.._;_, juveniles. But the two were 
nowhere to be found. An Observer secretary, who was on hand at the time of the





HOMECOMING '69 
incident, commented: "What ruffians. You'd think they had no sense of responsibility."
LOTTERY INFORMATION 
"Eee gads" was the response of a Student Union employee when he saw the hole.
READ CAREFULLY: Any failure to follow these instn1ctions 
Brother Francis Gorch, CSC, 

LaFortune manager, was unavailable for comment. 
could result in disqualification. 

1. All undergraduate stud~nts of the University of Notre Dame 
2 named fellows 
are eligible to enter the lottery. 

Two graduate students at the University of Notre Dame have 
received · graduate research fellowship awards from the National Institute of General 
2. 
Only one (1) entry per I. D. 


3. 
Entry will· be made by personalcheck only This means no 


Medical Sciences (NIGMS). William F. Bailey, a graduate
money orders, cash, travellers checks, etc. 

student in chemistry from Rutherford, N.J., and Sister Dolores M. Morek, a graduate student in biology from Maple 
4, Check for ten ($10) dollars to cover the cost of the ·dance bid, 
should be made out to STUDENT GOVERNMENT FUND. Checks 
Mount, Ky., are two of 2,30G

made out for any amount other then ten dollars will not be 
fellows supported by the 
NIGMS, one of the ten institutes of health. 
accepted. -­
5. Check must include name and 1. D. number of the entrant 
Need Brautigan's 

(person desiring the bid) in the upper left hand corner of the 
"Trout Fishing in America" 
check, regardless of who wrote the check. 
please call Andrea Singer: 
272:2478

6. If the check belongs to someone else it should include his 
I. D. number beneath his signature. 
'67 Fiat convertible 
Excellent condition 
mu~t sell-$1395 or 
best offer. 

7. All entries should include a self addressed envelope with 
your local address so that the checks of those not winning 
Phone 234-6639.
bids may be returned. 
STUDENTS 
8. ALL ENTRIES MUST BE MAILED TO: 

FACULTY & HOMECOMING '69 LOTTERY 
ADMINISTRATION: rox 427 
Solve your problems with a halr;.ut 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
N.D. Barbershop Hours
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
8:00 a.m. to 4:45 Sat.
Do not use the campus mail. 
8:00a.m. to 11:45 Open 
5% days a week. Serving

9. Entries must be postmarked no later than midnite, Sunday, 
N.D. men over 100 years. 
October 19, 1969. 

10. Winners will be posted on Tuesday, October 21, 1969 
111M ObtM'ver Is published dall'y during the college serM~t• except
in the Huddle and the Dining Halls. 
vautlons by the students of the Unlvwslty of Notre o.ne and St. 
Mary's College. SubsCriptions may be purchased few $8 fnNn The Observer, Box 11, Notre o.me Ind., 46556. Second class Posute paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 

was "ground into very small be formulated so that the Fiesta pieces" into the floor. Lounge would be open only to 
Cashore said the vandalism is groups havine a reservation. being done by people from town Cashore noted that people who come to the parties held in doing vandalism are liable to 
the Fiesta Lounge. prosecution for trespassing and 
''Some people from the South for destruction of University Bend community are corning as property. invited guests to enjoy them­
selves," Cashore explained. 'Ruffians' cause 
"Some others apparently are using these gatherings as a cover LaFortune blast 
There is now a one-foot
for increasing acts of vandal-

diameter hole in the ceiling of
ism." He added that people invited LaFortune's third floor. It was by Notre Dame students are put there early Saturday welcome as guests in the student afternoon as the result of a fire center. Although there is no extinguisher explosion. official rule about non-students Apparently two local juveniles using the center facilities Ca-had been tampering with the fire shore said, "It is an under-fighting device. Seconds before standing that these non-students the explosion, the two youths should be guests of Notre Dame ran into The Observer office on students." the second floor, stopped short, Earlier in the year, Cashore and nervously asked, "How do said, the Saturday night gather-you get out of here?" ings were arranged by the Afro-Before anyone could answer, American Society. "Now these the extinguisher blew. parties are spontaneous," Ca-"What's that?" exclaimed the shore said, "and there seems to culprits, as they made be a different crowd." themselves scarce. Cashore added, "Saturday Observer Editor Guy DeSapio night no one seemed to be in immediately converged on the charge." floor, realized what had As a result of such vandalism, happened, and with other cashore said that a policy might members of his staff pursued the 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1969 THE OBSERVER. PAGE 3 
-------------------,c-------------, 



Discuss rebates for Grace residents 
Student Body President Phil McKenna headed a small com­"mittee in a meeting Thursday morning with University Bus­iness Affairs Vice-President Fr. Jeromc Wilson. The committee attempted-to point out the necessity of some kind of rebate for those students whose room accommodations were upset by the delay in the completion of Grace Hall. 
Working with figures that were largely approximations, McKenna's committee tried to present Fr. Wilson with evidence of a significant loss on the part of both the displaced students and those who were compelled to share their suites with them. Ed Davey, Stay Senator, was re­sponsible for tracking down 1110St ofthe figures that were usc(' as the basis for the committee's 
request. 
The room and board as listed for Grace Tower amounts to $1030 while the same bill for such halls as Pangborn, Keenan, and Stanford is only $1000. Fees for·living in older dorms are even less. Displaced Grace resi­dents, it is argued, should then receive a rebate in proportion to the number of days that they had to live in another dorm. Stu­dents who put them up would receive a rebate for having to lodge them. 
McKenna's committee's plan called for a calculation of the exact room fee in each instance to be divided by the number of days in the year for which the students pays to call it his resi-
Grace open 
Father  Edgar  Whelan,  
Director  of  Student  Housing,  
announced  last  week  that  

barring unforseen difficulties, students will be moving onto the eighth floor of Grace Tower C tomorrow and onto the ninth tenth, and eleventh floors on Friday. 
All furniture will be in the new Grace Tower rooms when students move into them. 

Charlie's 


STEREO TAPES 
8 TRACK 
List$6.98 
Charlie's Price 


$5.88 ~ 
H.A.R.LXE"S 
• tli H F lJ H1'\j I..,'' 1 '1, 
OPEN DAILY 9 to 6 ·1 SAT. I a.m. te 5 p.m. 


PH. 287-7218 

774 Lincoln Way East 

, dence. Then those affected by 
mittee offered, no rebate would the room squeeze could be eli­
be likely to exceed $30. How­gible for a rebate for the total 
ever, there are enough students number of days in which they 
involved in the issue to make the did not receive the lodging ser­final rebate total a considerable vice they paid for. The proce­
amount. dure for repayment was also 
McKenna admitted that he worked out. 
really had no idea whether the "Paying the students back 
rebate plan would be finally ac-would be simple. All you have to 
cepted, but he Deported that Fr. do is deduct the amount that Wilson conceded that there were they are due from the second reasons for the request. semester bill," McKenna said. The committee which in-
Based on the report the com-eludes Jim Smith along with McKenna and Davey, is now working on securing the exact figures and plans to have that ac­complished by Monday. If so, they will present the entire plan to the Vice President's Council on Tuesday. 
Regarding the present situ­ation of Grace Hall, McKenna said that three more floors were scheduled to move in today leav­ing just three floors unoccupied, and those arc due to be ready by next Friday. 
MONDAY -OCT.l3 

PITT WEEKEND­
$40 

INCLUDES: Round trip transportation 2 nights at the William 
Penn Hotel 2 parties & buffet dinner Game ticket 
Ticket sales: Wednes­day, Oct. 5 -Room 2D LaFortune, 7: JO. 

Do you have to give up your identity to make it in abig corporation? 
You've heard the stories: One big corporation forbids you to wear anything but white shirts. 
Another says it wants you to be "crea­tive"-and gives you a 4-pound rule book telling you exactly how to do it. 
Yet another doesn't want you to buy a more expensive car than your boss because "it wouldn't look right'.' 
Is this really happening in American business? 
Have companies become so rigid and fossilized that they're scared of people who don't fit the "norm"? 
Not this company. 

Weare not hung up on trivia like that. 
The advances General Telephone & Electronics has made didn't come from people hiding behind organization charts and smilingatthe right time. 
They came from people who used their brains: 
People who revolutionized picture­taking with the Sylvania flashcube, who developed the high-energy liquid laser, who came up with the sharpest color TV picture in the world, who pio­neered instant electronic stock market quotations, and so on. 
We are looking for more people like this-people who aren't afraid to stand up and try themselves out. 
We· are an equ~l opportunity em­ployer: All you need to make it with us is a good head on your shoulders. 
General Telephone & Electronics 
Sylvan fa Electric Products • len kurt Electric • Automatic Electric! • Telephone .Companies In 34 States • General :elephone Directory c.om~any • c;Jenerll Telephone & Electronics L1bOr1tories General Telephone & Elec'tromcs International • GT&E Data Serv1ces • GT&E Commun1cat1ons 

~ 
-

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------,. 
PAGE 4 7118 OBSERJJER MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1969 
~ ~ ~ 



617 yards-everyone gets a piece of the action
~ 
~ 
! 

~ 
f by Mike Pavlin I ~ Observer Sports Editor 
I I The worst aspect of Satur­day's game from the Irish fans' point of view was tht inept camera work by Channel 16 on the broadcast back to South Bend. Otherwise, everyone had a ball as ND destroyed Army 45-0 in Yankee Stadium. The Cadets were buried under an avalanche of 617 Irish total of­fense yards, many of the most exciting ones being produced by the reserves. An avalanche starts slowly and the ND attack sputtered for most of the first half as a hope­
lessly outclassed Army defense held on deep in Cadet territory. ND had 24 points in the first half, but lost other opportunities on two interceptions and a loss­of-downs takeover. 
Quarterback Joe Theismann got his team untracked with a beautiful 55-yard touchdown bomb to split end Tom Gate­wood. Cutting from right to left, the young sophomore was wide open and trotted into the end zone. Gatewood, who caught nine passes in less than three quarters, also took a seven-yard TD pass from Theismann to close out the half and give the lriah a 24-0 lead. 
Tuning up for Southern Cal, Theismann hit on l 5-24 passing attempts for 215 yards and two touchdowns. He also ran for 58 yards and has accumulated 618 yards in total offense in the last two games. 
While the Irish were slowly grinding up the lighter Cadets on offense, Army's backfield was unable to get any sort of a drive going. Fullback Lynn Moore, banged-up on a pass pattern, saw little action and gained only nine yards in three carries. In an attempt to open up the ND defense, Army spread linemen further than usual at the line of 


Behind the protection of the Irish offensift Une, Scott Hempel (aboYe) boots one of his llix extra points. (Right) Mike Kadish distracts passing ideas of Cadet quarterback Hubert Wall. Wall and Bob Mohn, harassed all day by the Irish defense, completed only 11 of 33 passes. 
And now bring on Davis and Jones 
ARMY NOTRE DAME 
Barz 1 3 0 

TOTAL FIRST DOWNS Rushing Attempts NET YARDS RUSHING Passes Attempted Passes Completed Passes Had Intercepted NET YARDS PASSING Total Plays TOTAL OFFENSIVE YARDS Passes Intercepted YARDS RETURNED Punts-Blocked PUNTING AVERAGE Punts Returned YARDS RETURNED Kickoff Returns YARDS RETURNED 
Penalties YARDS PENALIZED Fumbles-Lost 
13  31  
29  70  
48  365  
33  29  
11  19  
3  2  
112  252  
62  99  
160  617  
2  3  
28  28  
10-0  2-0  
33.3  45  
0  5  
0  28  
7  1  
79  33  
3  6  
41  54  
1-1  2-1  


NOTRE DAME  10  14  14  7  45  
ARMY  0  0  0  0  0  
SCORING  
NO: Hempel FG 20  

NO: Gatewood 55 pass from Theismann, Hempel kick NO: Theismann 4 run, Hempel kick NO: Gatewood 7 pass from Theismann, Hempel kick NO: Barz 1 run, Hempel kick NO: Huff 1 run, Hempel kick NO: Yoder 16 run, Hempel kick 
NOTRE DAME RUSHING ATT NET YDS TO Allan 12 52 0 Ziegler 10 62 0 Theismann 12 58 1 Barz 5 10 1 Huff 5 24 1 Etter 5 48 0 Minnix 7 24 0 Crotty 10 53 0 Yoder 1 16 1 Cielony 3 18 0 PASSING ATT COMP INT YDS TO Theismann 24 15 2 215 2 Etter 5 4 0 37 0 RECEIVING NO YDS TO Gatewood 9 164 2 
Allan 3 46 0 Ziegler 1 5 0 Huff 1 -3 0 Crotty 1 5 0 Furlong 2 14 0 Yoder 1 9 0 PUNTING NO AVG 

1deArrieta 1 41 Yoder 1 49 PUNT RETURNS NO YDS Stepaniak 2 12 Lewallen 3 16 KICKOFF RETURNS NO YDS Allan 1 33 INTERCEPTION RETURNS NO YDS Schumacher 1 0 Gasser 1 3 Stepaniak 1 25 
ARMY RUSHING ATT NET YDS TO Moore 3 9 0 Andrzejczak 12 28 0 Wall 4 -5 0 Ritacco 1 4 0 Roden 3 8 0 Mohn 6 3 0 PASSING ATT COMP INT YDS TO Wall 5 1 2 13 0 Mohn 28 10 1 99 0 RECEIVING NO YDS TO McDonald 1 13 0 Andrzejczak 1 6 0 Ritacco 1 5 0 Masciello 2 15 0 Simar 2 41 0 Roden 2 8 0 McGuckin 1 12 0 True 1 12 0 
PUNTING NO AVG Bonarrigo 10 33.3 KICKOFF RETURNS NO YDS Moore 5 64 Albano 1 10 Andrzejczak 1 5 INTERCEPTION RETURNS NO YDS McDowell 1 22 Brenner 1 6 

scrimmage and even used a triple flanker passing formation. 
In vain. The Cadets could manage only 160 yards in total offense, the great percentage of it coming in the second half when sub quarterback Bob Mohn completed several passt;s. Army mounted one drive in the third quarter down to the Irish l 5, but Walt Patulski pounced on a fumbled pitch-out to end the threat. 
After guiding his team to an early third period score (fullback Bill Barz from the one), Theis­mann left the game. Reserve Bill Etter then put on quite a show of his own with help from Bob Minnix, Mike Crotty, and Jim Yoder. Etter completed 4-5 passes, two to split end Nick Furlong, and pulled off a 52­yard run to the goal line. The official ruled that he was knocked out of bounds just be­fore the end zone, but if Etter didn't score, then New York City was dry on Saturday night. 

Crotty, a sophomore who has improved steadily this year for the reserves, accounted for 53 yards in l 0 carries, and had one long run called back by a clip­ping penalty. Minnix rolled up 24 yards and Yoder carried once for 16 yards and a touchdown. 
The Irish defense intercepted three passes (Larry Schumacher and John Gasser share the team lead with two) and now has nine for the year, with an outside chance of breaking the record of 26 set in 1966. Jim deArrieta 
(41) and Jim Yoder (49) com­bined to average 45 yards pun­ting. It was Yoder's first career punt although he kicked well during the Blue-Gold game. And Scott Hempel now has kicked 19-19 extra points this season while adding one field goal, that one opening Saturday's scoring in the first quarter. 





