

E OBSERVER 
Servinx the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
VOL Ill, NO. 130 WEDNESDAY, MAY 7, 1969 

Editorial 

For SLC 
The OESER VER endorses the following candidates for student representatives on the Student Life Council: from the South quad, Rich Meckel, Ron Mastriana, and Larry Landry; from the North quad; Guy DeSapio and Ted Jones; from off campus, Ed Roickle. 
With the Student Life Council entering its second year, having presumably solved the administrative and procedural problems which plague all new organizations, it is imperative that the student body elect representatives who realize the capabilities and limitations of the council. They must be able to understand the thinking of the faculty and administrative members. They must be able not only to research the issues but also to present them in a effective way to the body. 
These six men have the right attitudes, and concrete proposals concerning the critical issues which the council must face next year. More important than that, they have the initiative und capibility to carry out their ideas. 
We were encouraged by the number of qualified and concerned candidates from the South quad, however we had to make a decision. We feel Mastriana has earned re-election through his actions on this year's board. Through Landry's past pl·rformam:e in campus elections as a campaign manager and as Richard Rossie's executive coordinator, he has proven his ability, particularly in the research and formulation of bills. Although Meckel is perhaps the least known of our choices we were impressed by his knowledge of the workings of the council and his understanding of the complexities of dealing with administrative and faculty representaatives. 
Our easiest choice was DeSapio. As news editor, he clearly understands the intricacies of the SLC, and has shown us his superior ability to organize and communicate. Jones demon­strated, during his campaign for student body vice president, that he is knowledgeable of student problems and can initiate reforms. We welcome the innovation of an off campus representative, and believe Roickle will be a positive force in presenting needed bills. 
For these reasons we strongly endorse the election of DeSapio, Jones, Landry, Mastriana, Meckel, and Roickle. 
THE WORLD TODAY 

Voting will be held in the dining halls tonight at the evening meal to select this weekend's An Tostal queen. The five finalists as selcted by the An Tostal committee are, at top, from left to right, Mary Powers and Juliet Ryan. In the second row, from left, Karen Riley, Mary Ruth Barford and Sister St. Mary from Ireland. 
SG debt spirals to $45,000 
by Marty Graham the Senate at next week's meet-the Senate considers the budget-
Student Government Trea-ing. Scherer's motion was passed ing of next year's Student Gov­surcr John Coughlin announced by the concensus of the Senate. ernment appropriations, they at the Student Senate meeting In conjunction with Cough· take into consideration the last night that over the past year lin's second proposall on the amount by which each organiza­the Student Government has ac-cutback of funds, Senator Mike lion exceeded its budget this crued a financial debt of Shaughnessy moved that when continued on page 2 
$10,000. lie stated that this F., ttl t ~~ d 
total raises the Student Govern-
I m se emen 0 .ere 
ment debt owed to the Univer­sity to $45,000. The controversy between the Fr. McCarraghcr on the other 
In order to cut down this debt concurrent screenings of the hand, was concerned with the to the University and to ensure films sponsored by the Student "financial shape of the films run that a financial loss such as this Faculty Film Committee, and by David Kahn." (Kahn is a will be minimized or eliminated the Communications Arts In­senior who is in charge of run­next year, Coughlin requested structor Sam McClelland has ning the film series.) that the Senate vote that both a been resoved by a compromise. McClelland stated that, "The referendum be presented to the The compromise contains screenings of the films this week­student body asking that their parts of decisions by both Fa­end will be at the times and Student Government fee be ther John Walsh, and Father dates announced. The difference raised $2 next year and that a Charles McCarragher. At first Fr. is that admission will be limited cutback be investigated for the Walsh told McClelland that he to students in my class, those appropriation of next year's could run his horror films, as majoring in Communication funds. long as there was no profit Arts, and those that have already 
Senator Jirn Scherer moved made. According to McClelland purchased cards." that before the Senate considers Fr. Walsh objected to the prece­David Kahn commented on this referendum the Senate fi­dent that might be set by having the compromise by saying, "If 
nance Committee should investi­a member of the faculty run a Mr. McClelland genuinely re­gate the Student Government film on campus, to make money stricts his program to Communi­finances and present its report to for his "pet project." cations majors and his class, then 
Astronaut Borman resigns current post we can no longer complain. I
Women's l"iberation group seeks to 
will in fact insist this be en­forced. However if Mr. McClel­SPACI: CENTER, Houston (UPI) Apollo 8 astronaut Prank 

end discrimination, exploitation
Borman who commanded mankind's first trip around the moon has land's screening is, although resigned from the astronaut corps, it was learned yesterday. ' by Ginger Updike blacks are. There is a distrust of ostensibly departmental, in fact Borman will accept a post in the space agency's program to women in specialized professions commercial tthen I will feel once develop orbiting space stations. The Women's Liberation just because they arc women. again that the CA department Informed sources said yesterday was Borman's last day as an Movement met Monday in Le­One of the objectives of the has behaved insidiously. If Mr. astronaut. They said his new job would be officially announced Mans Uall to discuss the need to group is to overcome this McClelland cannot prove that he today by the space agency. free women from their subser­attitude. can restrict his program to CA 
II is resignation leaves the space agency with 50 astronauts. vient role in Western society. A not her topic discussed was majors, his class, and patrons, 
They want to make women a­then we will say no to the entire
the exploitation of women. Wo­Chafee reverses decision for court ware that they do have a choice men are exploited in advertising. compromise." 
of their role in society ami that Half nude women are often seen llis statement goes on to com­
WASlliN(;TON (UPI) A Naval Court of Inquiry recommended they arc not all dicstined to be in advertisements, such as car ment on McClelland's challenge yesterday that Cmdr. Lloyd M. Bucher he court martialed for the "live in janitors and diaper wash­ads, implying that along with the to debate by saying, "As to the loss of the lJSS Pueblo, but the civilian secretary of the Navy ruled ers:, product you might get a volup­question of debate, J feel the out any punishment of the intelligence ship's crew because "they The movement in South Bend l uous sex goddess. The issues are so clearly petty and have suffered enough." Navy Secretary John II. Chafee refused even was initiated at the St. Francis exploitation and using of women bureaucratic that they would to accept the milder recommendation of Adm. Thomas II. Moorer, commune and organized hy was also pointed to in the cur­not be of interest to the public." chief of naval operations and the highest ranking officer in the Navy, ('harlotlt: Casey ami Kay Aswor­rent Notre Dame co-educational Sam McClelland alsoo com­that Bucher and some other officers involved be issued letters of thy. The group meets occasional­program. mented saying that he "was dis­reprimilnd. ly for the purpose of talking The group did admit that as appointed that the administra­
"I am convinced," Chafec announced, "that neither individual with women and is open to long as physical force was neces­tion has intervened. It is very discipline or morale in the Navy nor any other interest requires anyone intl~rcsted. Meetings are sary for survival, women arc unusual." further legal proceedings with respect to any personnel involved in held in LeMa ns lla II. going to be subjed. But as an lle went on to say, "I feel Fr. the Pueblo incident." Ue told newsmen he considered the cilse The discrimination against alternative, women should quit M cCarraghcr is owr slt'pping closed. "They have suffered enough, and furl her punishment would women in applying for jobs ami playing the Wl'ak defcnsekss his bounds. This is a violation of not he justified,'' he said. educational grants was pointed role "she should he able to de­academic freedom. I believe tha 
Thus ended a publi.: ordeal for Bu.:her and his men that began out. A Saint Mary's gradtwte at he has the right to say that you
fend hL·rsl'lf aga ins! a drunk No­Jan. 2J, llJhll, when North Korean gunbo<tts seized the lightly armed the meeting stated that women tl"l' Da llll' student throwing lll'r cannot run films solely to makl· Pueblo in the Sea of Japan and forL·ed il into Wonsan llarhor. The don't have a fair opportunity in in the Jake." a profit, hut he .has not rs no Communists kept the ship hut freed Bu.:hcr and the X I surviving business and profl•ssional sedors The RL•man Cal holi~· Church right to say that you can run crewnwn I I months later, after extrading "confessions" they had of so.:icl y. Till'Y <trc oppressed films. but not make any profit at 
COII/illll<'d 011 fll/gC ..f

violated North Korean waters whill' on a spying mission. and discrirninatl'd against just as all." 

Voting at N.D., S.M.C. Dining Halls, Today 



Huge bust triggers Admin occupation 

Illustration Enfarged ment Commissioner Pat Corn after they ignored Hovde's order 
C. S.C., chairman of the dent opinion toward the ROTC 
Her fondest dreams come ln.e was omitted. In the same article to end a "lounge in" at the department of economics, will program on campus. when you choose a Contoura it was reported that the SSO will Memorial Union 
be presented to the group at "We've heard a lot of anti-diamond hridal set. appoint the NSA Co-ordinator. 
The arrests were made while 8: I 5 p.m. May 8 in the Center ROTC talk lately and we would Actually the position will be 
Hartke slept upstairs. A break­for Continuing Education. like to know the actual percen­filled by the Student Assembly.
by~eahe~ fast in the union building was On May 9, the board members tage of Notre Dame students Election results run on the same 
cancelled. Those arrested attend­and senators will hear committee who feel this way," said Landen­Diamond lmportCo day were also in error. Regina ed a r<Jlly at an out,oor theater reports dealing with admissions, meyer. THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS on campus Monday night. They student affairs and religion on The organization, made up of
Hall had 10, not 8, abstentions. Anne Steinman from LeMans 
defied an order by Hovde which campus, and continuing what Landenmeyer called
-WHOLESALE­

was elected a representative to
SEEN BY APPOINTMENT was reread at 3 a.m. in the education. Members of the "hard-core pro-ROTC people," 2927'/z MISHAWAKA AVE. the Student Assembly although campus center lounge and re~ Student Life Council and of the is now small. not listed as one.
PHONE 287·1427 read at 20 minute intervals until Faculty Senate will also be "We have nothing in the way police arrived around 4 a.m. meeting with the alumni of an all-<Jut pro-ROTC cam-
Some of the demonstrators representatives. paign," said the senior. left after Hovde's order was read A discussion of Alumni Club Landenmeyer mentioned the
Academy Award Winner 
~·!!~~~~~ 'r I'IITC Hl ... prr-•u 

and others fled through windows programming is scheduled for fact that the movement made up
... 

when the police entered. Those the morning of May 10. of students in and out of thefR.\.\CO ZEFFIREUJ
r....,......_.., 

who remained went peacefully followed by a noon luncheon military training program on 
to a ballroom for processing and with the Rev. Theodore M. campus. The students carne to­
ROMEO 

photographing. They were then Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame gether because they were inter­ordered to West Lafayette City president, and the Blue-Gold ested in keeping officer training 
<5-Jl'LIET 
'\:Otll'cfiiHI lti\'('"""'(CJI'~ 

game at 1:30 p.m. in the at Notre Dame. TECHNICOLOR APARAMOUNT PICTURE ···· 
Court where appearance dates 
were set. stadium. "We have rep.esentatives in Among those arrested was Richard A. Rosenthal, each hall willing to discuss the 
Jerry Barron, a WASK radio president of the St. J oscph Bank ROTC program with the resi­newsman, who was held for and Trust Company, and dents of the hall," Landcnmeyer Leonard H. Skoglund, vice commented. 
'I-ll"-'.•/;~~~~;;,~~~;;-:•..·~•__ __~_.
S_t_a_rt_s_T_o_n_ig_h_t •. ,,_) 


Senate discusses losses, fees, NSA
Driving Range 

the Senate should select five
continued from page I 

delegates and five alternates
Par 3 Golf Course 

year. This motion was also pas­
from the student body to sendsed by concensus. 
to the National Student Associa­
Minjature Golf Course 
Coughlin stated that the total 

tions Conference in El Paso, budget appropriated for this 
T,exas during the summer. It was year's Student Government fi­
passed twelve to ten.
OPEN -DAY & NIGHT 

nances was $94,500; but as it The second motion posed by
(weather permitting) 

stands now, if the $2 increase is Gelinas stated, "it is proposed not passed, the budget will be that the Senate request the Beta lowered to $65,000 after a por­Alpha Psi Fraternity to under­

PLAYLAND 

tion of the accumulated debt has take the auditing of Student been paid. Government as a year round

GOLF CENTER 

The Senate also passed two function. This would include motions posed by Senator establishing a system of internal
1715 Lincoln Way East 

Armand Gelinas dealing with control for such events as con­
South Bend, Ind. 

NSA delegates and the auditing certs and making periodic re­
P.S.-Mother's Day is almost here! That special 
Phone 288--0033 

of Student Government funds. ports to the Senate." It passed
Mother deserves the best, so call us now! 
Gelinas' first motion was that by a vote of sixteen to two. 
"Do your thing"-immediate openings in young publishing


Off Campus Voting 
company for ad space salesmen & women. Work in your city or 
travel the USA. Salary, commission and car expenses. Call collect 
(312) 726-9326 or send resume to J and J Publications, Inc., 153
for 

North Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois 60601. 
S.L.C ELECTIONS 
K of C OPEN HOUSE 

CLEOPATRA


Thursday May 8, 1969 
Liz Taylor


In Off Campus Office 
SHOWINGS TODAY 9AM to 7PM 
2, 6, 9:15, 12:30 Seniors allowed to vote 
AIR CONDITIONED BLDG. 

PAGE 2 
_~ TH_E OBSERflER._~·­
U.M.O.C. IS HERE 

Arrest 229 at Purdue 
Through Thursday LAFAYI-'TTE, Ind. (lJI'I) Several hundred Purdue llnivn­
CONTOURA'" sity students invaded the admini­stration building yesterday after­
with Diamonds of 

noon and demanded amnesty for
Ultimate beauty 


2 29 persons arrested earlier in the day on charges of trespassing when they refused to end a "lounge in" at the Memorial Union. 
The building at West Lafayette, Ind., was cleared for about 15 minutes while Purdue President Frederick L. Hovde met with four student leaders who told him they wanted a 1969~ 70 tuition increase res­cinded and the charges dropped 
against those arrested. 

Hovde replied that the ad­ministration could do nothing about the tuition hike and told 
SMC story goofed 

In an article which appeared 
in the OBSERVER on May 6. entitled "Student Services Or­ganization formed at SMC to aid activities and programs", the ap­pointment of Student Develop­
students to cir~ulatc a petition regarding their amnesty demand. The students. who waited out­side during the meeting, res­ponded with jeers and surged back into the administration building, jamming corridors and occupying all three floors includ­ing the re~eption room outside Hovde's office. 
Mike Brand, leader of the Grass Roots Movement which organized the campus protest against the tuition increase, said the students wcre prepared to stay in the building until thcir demands were met. 
The invasion of the admini­stration building climaxed a day of unrest at Purdue which marred the university's Founders Day ccentennial celebration at­tended by Senators Vance Hartke, D Ind.. and Birch Bayh, 
D. Ind., and Robert Finch, a member of President Nixon's cabinet. 
Twenty five helmeted campus police arrested 229 students, in­cluding several faculty members, about thrce hours despite the 
"provoked threats of force and 
fact that he identified himself as 

violence" and that "in view of a newsman assigned to cover the 
t hcse serious and dangerous 
story. 

developments no further groupJ.C. Smalley, director of the occupancy or use of union 
Purdue Union, rreread Hovde's fa c iIi ties would be allowed 

statement to the "lounge in" without the express consent of group. It It said the continued the director. 

occupation of the building 
AlumniBoard meets for weekend startingFriday 
More than 100 alumni representatives from across the nation will gather May 8-10 at the University of Notre Dame for the annual joint session of the Notre Dame Alumni Association Board of Directors and the University's alumni senators. 
A seminar on "Catholic Education The End or a New Beginning? " with the Revs. Neil 
J. McCluskey, S.J ., dean-director of the Institute for Studies in Education, and Ernest J. Bartell, 
--~~ ·---~--··-~~~~~--~~~~~ 
WEDNESDAY, MAY 7, 1969 
president of a Chicago machine tool accessories manufacturing company. arc president of the Alumni Senate and Alumni Association, rcspectivtly. 
Cadets ask for credit retention 

Senior Mark Landenmeyer is leading the formation of a pro­ROTC movement on campus. The pro-ROTC group circulated petitions in thc halls last night to get a ''random sampling" of stu­
Orientation on both campuses to be expanded 

Both Notre Dame anLI St. Marys will he changin[! anLI L'X­panding their respective fresh­man orientation programs this eonung September. 
The Notre Dame program Will span nine days beginning WeLI­nesday. September I 0 anLI will involve a new approach. 
Kat her 1han Ihe traditional "do's and don't's," the "why's and how's" of hall life will he stressed to the new freshmen. 
"II. humanistie approach to . group living on the hall anLI sedion levels will 1eplaee the 
workshop for Ihe [!roup IL'aders who will condud orientation in I heir resped ive halls. 
'The workshop will orientale group leaLiers to the dynamics of group l1ving, giving them the opportunity to share the com­mon problem and, by gelling to know each other, form viable solutions," Landry sai,l. 
lie pointeLI out that the hall community, within the natural section system, has the potential to perfor111 positive, progressive Interact with each other on any­1h1ng hut a superficial IL'vcl. 
"Some freshmen don't get to know Ihe people next Lloor to him for two weeks, a month, or even a semester after they arrive," Landry said. 
St. Mary's is introduding a m~w program Croup Leaders, for their orientation. 
1-"rom I 0 a 111 to 5 pm on Sunday Fr. Boland and Dr. McCabe of the Notre Dame Thl' Sl'Ssion was so mew lwt seen in I he SM M(' Coffee llouse. 
l' x h au sl ing for I he pL·ople ThL· girls expresseLI t IH:ir iueas on 
involved hl~C<Jtlse oft he emphasis growl h, communie<Jiion, eo­
on interaction in the group and operation, exhaustion and exhu­
of L'ach g1rl's involvement in the hnanee in crayon drawings. 
!-(r<Hlp sl rue! ure. Some of the lmperal ive for appreciation is 
results of the day's work can he inleqHL'I at ion. 
Cops arrest ND students in Prague 
Three Notre DamL' stu­quest inned for seven hours, ano dents wert• arrested in Prague Oil then si)!nl'd a statement which charges of violalin!! loeal law they could not read. Their film when they snapped pil'lures in was confiscated. hut they wne Wenn•slas Square. allowed to remain in t hl' wunt ry 
The t hn:e, members of the until their visas expired. 













1ive  Co-ord ina tor  of  Student  
<;over nme nt.  
J."or  I wo  Jays prior  to  fresh­ 

what's important in the first few

CS(', and his staff from NJ>'s doesn't work because the people weeks of school.
Counselling Service will hold a in the section don't rcbtc to or 
Sophomore literary Festival 
Kelly appointed chairman of minorities committee 
Interviews 
It was announced that Party of racist regulations and to demonstrate that the outgoing NDY R Chairman Mike attitudes. Second, to bring the 
Republican Party can offer a 
Chairmanship Interviews Rm. 2E LaFortune
Kelly has been appointeLI black message to the Republican 
serious response to the racial Chairman of the Minorities Party in hopes of creating a 
nisis in our nation. 

Committee of the Midwest 
Other Officers first floor LaFortune 
more realistic attitude witpin the
Fcueration of College 
party and making the party Buzas still criticalRepublicans C'lubs by MFCRC 
Wed. May 7 6:30 PM
mon! relevant to the American
Chairman Mike Organ. Michael Buzas who was in­
black community. ThirLI, to 
;urcLI in a ear crash in w hieh one
Mike Kelly deseribeLI the bring the true picture of 
program of the MFC'K(' ND student was killcLI is still in 
"Fascinating, well halanceLI" San Francisco Chronicle
Kepublican principles to the 
crit ic:al eonuition in South
M morities Committee as having Bend's Memorial llospital. A
" threcfolLI purpllse. First, to "Persuasive... Fxc:iting... J:xcruciating beauty!"
blaek community, where, hospital spokesman said that Bu­work to cleanse the Republican 
The Stanford Daily (Stanj(Jrd University) 
accorLiing to Kelly, it is almost zas has been taken out of theAdler speaks tomorrow completely misunuerstood, and intensive eare unit. "Joyous usc of imagery, color, and spontaneity...
Dr. Mortimer J. ALlier, phil­

Do go sec these films!" The /Jaily Ca/ij(Hnian (UC at Berkeley)osopher, author, and lec:turer, will speak in the Little Theatre at St. Mary's on FriLiay, May 9. Dr. /\tiler plans to dcfent the 
Student -Faculty Film Societ 
position that our soeiety is not 
presents
BROWN 
only good, hut the best the world has known thus far. The lecture will begin at 4: IS. with 
SHOW
ample time for Llisc:ussion after­
Genesis I
wards. 
The Nations No. 1 Entertainer 
A two-hour collection of the finest
We Call it 
IN PERSON 
experimental and documentary 
c-c-Li·vctbility" 
films being produced by exciting,
JAMES BROWN 
new student filmmakers. 
Our idea is to serve you with lunches and dinners you can live 
With Show for 
with day after day. Fine steaks properly broiled and at prices you 
Entire Family 
can live with, too. And with 
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM
Date: May 1Oth, '69

pleasant surroundings, comfort· 
able booths and chairs, a little 
Place: Morris Civic 

background music and a smile 
Auditorium
from the folks who serve you. 
Ticket Prices: THURSDAY MAY 8 
And a choice of dinners to match your taste: 
tst Show: balcony $3.50 main floor $4.00 
7:00 & 9:30 P.M.
2nd Show balcony $4.00 
I. Sirloin .................. $1.59 

main floor $5 .00 
2. Rib Eye................ 1.19 
On Sale at: Auditorium Box 
Office $1.00 students-$1.50 general
3. Chopped Sirloin ... .99 
Show Time: 7 & 10 P.M. 

5. 
N.Y. Strip............. 1.89 

6. 
Ilam Steak............ 1.19 


8. Fish Fillet............. .99 
CLASS of 1970 PRESENTS 

NEW ORLEANS FOOTBALL HOLIDA 
1969 SENIOR TRIP 
*COMPLETE TRANSPORTATION
*OCT. 23-26 FURNISHED 
*BOURBON STREET 
*EASY ACCESS TO *FRENCH QUARTER NEW ORLEANS NIGHT-LIFE 
*TULAND vs. N.D. TOTAL PRICE: $135
STEAK HOUSE 
in the SUGAR BOWL 
DEPOSIT: $15 
TICKET SALES: THURSDAY, MAY 8 & MAY 15 
1516 N. Ironwood 

in the Dining llalls . 
.lust N. of h"di.wm NOT!:': There will be no sales in the fall. 
·--· 
--_______________________________j 
negative approach used in the past," said Larry Landry, Jo:xecu­
man arrivals Oil 1-"riuay, Septem­ber 12, Kev. Daniel M. Boland, 
altitudes toward hall life. The "ideal" sect ion system has been talkeLI about in the past hut never has I here been an attempt to implement it on a humanistic level. 
Often the seetion system Cuidancc Center conducted a workshop for the group lt'adcrs and faculty advisors. In a group of IS-20 freshmen it is hoped that the leader can help the girls adJust to college life from all aspects and gd a perspeetive on I nnsbruek program, are ( ;eorge 
M. White, Chris Ollcnweller, and James W. Kelly. The students were spending a short vaeation in Czechoslovakia, and were warned not to take any pictures. 
The three were held and 
GENESIS 1 
Raison toast, suhurhia, and muslz. 

THE OBSERVER 


Seek liberation for modern women 
continued from page 1 
was criticized for perpetuating women's subservience damning them to the evil role of moral temptors. One person pointed out that Notre Dame has en­shrined a virgin on the golden dome but won't allow women on the golf course. 
Western culture was con­
demned for forcing women to feel their fulfillment lies in "catching a man and having ba­bies." Women are pressured to present an image of themselves men want and assume a "sell yourself role." They are trained to be leeches. Their identity is simplified to that of their hus­band. Actually, therefore, wo­men lose out in a marriage rela­tionship. 
ElECT 
Ed Roickle 
Off-Campus SlC Candidate 
Jaguar 


invites the 
University of Notre Dame 
to a 

Saturday Night Bash 
Place: meet at 7:00 PM South Bend time for rally at 1805 E. Ewing St. -From there the party moves by motorcade to Michigan. Forty minutes later we'll be down on the farm. Fires for food. -Stag or drag -Plenty of gas 
8. Y. 0. 
"I'm sorrY.about your parade, sir. I guess I splashed on too much after shave:'}~s-­
7.._(.~ 
~~ 

~-~ ~cfl."\::o ;::> 
) RoTc\ 

Tff"::---0~, 

S G plaything 
Editor, 

At its last meeting, the Stu­dent Senate voted by the over­whelming margin of 12 to I 0 to restrict the selection of the Notre Dame delegates to this year's National Students' Asso­ciation Convention to its uwn choice, rather than hold an elec­tion as dictated in the NSA rules. 
For years now NSA has been the plaything of Student Gov­ernment and it appears that 
again  this  year  the  people  in  
LaFortune  want  to keep it that  
way.  For  years  ND  has  sent  

delegates (costs coming out of the funds from the Student Acti­vities Fee) to NSA conventions. Each year, when some fuss is raised, we are promised•that the resolutions passed by the NSA convention will be presented to the student body-they never are, of course. 
I wonder whether our student government politicos are afraid of holding elections, lest some non-LaFortune student be elect­ed and refuse to go along with the dictates of the Phil & Fred Show. Oh well, one can't carry dissent too far. Big Brother knows best. 
Mike Kelly 137 Breen-Phillips 

BE A SWINGER ! and own your own Polaroid -It's easy, just pick up your own SCRIPTO Pen at the BOOKSTORE and receive a lucky number from the cashier. The Next Drawing Will Be Held May 9 Craftsmen in Optics FOR THE FINEST EYEGlASSES AND CONTACT LENSES THE SHERLAND BLDG.·-132 S. MICHIGAN ST.-·CEntrai2-1461!S M<1in Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.··Chicaqo  
The _Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacat1ons by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid Notre Dame lnd 46556. • .  


/rc/~~t-1 ;, ~~' 
­r:/~/ ~/ /~Us, 
r~ }v~JCA67J'~,
; !;'0/IA
v-A \. F~~ ~ 
'"' ~~ 
'-( < 

j_ ~~1 {\
/ ~/ f--­

'llJ 
~n 
I\~ 

~~~· \ 
\o 
'-o 
~ 

/v ~ 
1\__-.-/ 

Even the might of the military can't protect you if you're not careful how you use Hai Karate'"' After Shave and Cologne. One whiff and females get that "make love not war" look in their eyes. So to maintain military discipline and keep your uniform intact, we put instructions on self-defense in every package. Just in case it comes down to hand-to-hand combat. 
Hai Karate-be careful how you usc it. 
~ ......... Letters to the editor .............. 
Co-ed? Editor: 

My comments concern your article of Monday May 5 entitled "Co-education slated to begin in Fall". My question is who had the nerve to call this program co-education? The article leads me to believe that the Board of Trustees is responsible. If this is 
.the case, why do they insist on 
calling the program co-ed when 
in fact it is NOT! 

Perhaps my association with Notre Dame has dulled my me­mory, but I was under the im­pression that co-education meant men and women enrolled and sharing experiences and edu­cation in the same institution. What the Board has proposed is a highly sophisticated co-ex­change. 
How can they call it co-ed when it will involve 500 fresh­men from the combined classes, in 4 courses? How can they call it co-ed when, "the present co­EXCHANGE program" will be only expanded? How can they call it co-ed by 1971. the sche­duled culmination date of the program, the total enrollment of SMC (a separate institution) will exceed the freshmen class of Notre Dame (a separate institu­tion) by only 200? How can they call it co-ed when such highly liberal programs as co-ed dining hall privileges, mixed seat­
ing  at  athletic  events,  and  ex­ 
panded  shuttle  bus  service  are  
only being "explored"?  

I must commend the Board on their willingness to take ac­tion, however when they back their action with reasons like, "the historical connection bet­ween the two campuses", it scares me. Also they would much rather "exploit" what we have rather than move in an­other direction. What happens when things have been totally exploited? 
In conclusion I think the pro­posed co-ex program would be wonderful as an initial step not the absolute end which I am afraid is the impression I am left with. 
Sincerely, 
Nick Textor 
Nostalgia 
Editor: 

I just thought I would write and try to express to you and to everyony the pride I felt yester­day. Yesterday, the city bus that I was riding was temporarily halted in its journey back to the library; and all the way from the circle to the stadium I was treat­ed to r 50-yard-line closeup view of the rear of the Notre Dame band. And all the way my heart fluttered as the band marched, neigh, pranced to the beat of the drummers dumb. 
I looked at the line of cars behind us. And I looked at the line of cars waiting to go the other way. And tears came to my eyes. I realized that these drivers were not waiting because they had to, but because they wanted to, because they were proud to. 
And then I realized that these marchers weren't practicing for me, because next year when they are performing I will be graduated and long gone from the University. But I loved them anyway. And because of my love I sobbed. And the bus driver sobbed. And there we were just a couple of big Notre D~me bihies in a big Notre Dame press box. 
And I wanted to hop right off that press box and run up and kiss every one of those beautiful marchers. But I didn't Because I knew they had a job to do. And a legend to prolong. 
Peter Beck man 





