VOL. Ill, No. 95 
Over 3000 present as McCarthy accepts award 
by Bob Scheuler 

Last night, United States Senator l·:ugene J. McCarthy was presented the first annual Notre Dame Senior Class Fellow A ward. Senator McCarthy spoke before three thousand people in Stepan Center as part of the 120th Annual Washington Day 1-:xerdses. 
McCarthy's speech was entertaining and spiced with many humorous comments. The St·nator co!liiiH.!nted on the general mood of America today and touched on some of his experiences that reflect this mood. 

Sen. Eugene McCarthy 
"I have not been accepting many invitations recently," said McCarthy. "I did not receive any invitations to the Rcpuhlic<.~n wcll:oming parties in W<.~shington," cxplaim•d the Minnc~ot<.~ senator. "And as for the Democr<.~tic farewell parties...well, I didn't get any of those cit her." 
"The invitation from Notre Dame came at just the right moment," said Senator McCarthy, "and I was eager to come hack to Notre Dame," (alluding to the commencement speech he gave at Notr~: Dame in 1967). 
"I was happy to he the first Senior Fellow instead of the l>atriot of the Year. I was afraid that if some of the past winners heard of my acceptance, they would turn in their citations." 
Senator McCarthy then turned to the Presidential Campaign of 1968. "I suffered some in the campaign hy public analysis of my character," he said. 
"l'olitics is an avocation and a vocation. Public office carries with it certain risks and responsibilities. Just as firemen and policemen must take chances as part of thrir jobs, I decided in 1968 to take a chance in my profession," said Senator McCarthy. 
Elaborating, he said, "At times, I felt like the ancient messengers who brought the had news. In those times, they were executed on the spot. Today, we arc allowed a hit more time." 
Turning to the campuses, McCarthy said, "I am not going to mention how had Jhings arc on campus today." 
McCarthy continued, "We generally 

On Vaciline's future 
by Martin Graham 
Student publishers of the magazine Vaci/ine stated yesterday that they intend to write a letter to the Chairman of the Hoard of Trustees, Edmund A. Stephan in an attempt to bring charges against Uni­versity Executive Vicc-Pr~sident Rev. Edmund Joyce for his order to withold the publishing of their magazine. These charges arc I he 1heft of property of a member of the University community and the rcjertion of the editorial freedom of studl·nt publications. 
(Continued 011 page 6) 

hold that ·there is more intelligence on campus than in the country as a whole, on the average. It follows tlwt change should he the most orderly and come about best on the campuses." 
lie then turned to the draft saying, "In the draft. ..people have to make moral decisions every day on life ami the war in Vietnam. This is not surprising since the United Stales made moral decisions on Germany after World War II at I he Nurcmhurg Trials." 
Senator McCarthy concluded hy admonishing students to guide their lives with integrity, decency and especially willingness. "A willingness to take risks with your life, your person, your reputation." 
Senator M~.-·Carthy's speech at Stepan 

Center culminated his busy, two-day stay 
at Notre Dame. Ycstcrday afternoon he 
held a news conference at the Center for 
Continuing Fducation and commented on 
his stay. 
"This is my first time hack on campus 

since the campaign. I've been so busy I 
feel like a rented car, being left off here 
and picked up there. But I've enjoyed it 
and I believe I will survive." 
The Senator's hectic pace was reflected 

in his late arrival at the press conference. 
This delay proved fortunate as the great 
array of television lights and equipment 
had blown a fuse. The delay permitted 
till' damage to he repaired and enabled 
the conference to proceed as planned. 
Commenting on Father Heshurgh's 

recent letter, Senator McCarthy said, "It's 
quite all right for a college president to 
lay down terms. As to whether it was 
proper at this time at this campus, I have 
some reservations." 
(Continued on page 2) 

John Mroz 
PhU McKenna 

Poll shows 2-way race 
by Glen Corso 
The first campus wide straw poll, taken by the 0/JSI:R Vh"R, shows a fairly tight race shaping up between John Mroz, and Phil McKenna, with a large block of students undecided. 
The results of the poll were extrapo­lated so that each lwll received a weighted vote, according to the percentage of total residents it holds. 
The campus wide percentages were as 
follows: Mroz 32.5% McKenna 24.8% Kendall 4.2% Apt 2.1% McCartin 1.5% Others 7.1% Undecided 27.8% 
Although there is not a great spread in the percentages, Mroz captured every hall. except Morrissey, Fisher, Sorin, and Walsh. McKenna's greatest strength was in his own hall Morrissey. There he captured 7.5% of the total campus vote, compared to Mroz's .4%. Mroz's greatest strength was in Brcen-Phillips, where he captured 



SMC bill calls for Services 
In a meeting of the St. Mary's Legisla­ture last night, a resolution introduced by junior Beth Driscoll, calling for the estab­lishment of a Student Services Commis­sion, was approved and will he presented before an all school convocation on Mon­day, March 14. 
The Legislature's approval of her pro­posal, however, is considered by Miss Oriscoll to he "merely a recommenda­tion" to the student body referendum to he held at the March 14 convocation. 
Miss Driscoll explained that "since the Student Government was abolished by rcorganizalional legislation last week, it was decided that there would he a com­missions board to co-ordinate St. Mary's service commissions and their functions." Sct.e d u ling problems and conflicts, co-operation with Notre Dame, and general administration were given by Miss Driscoll as reasons for establishing a Student Services Organization. 
Heading the Student Services Organiza­
tion would be a Student Services Organi­
zation Director who would have as 
members of her commission: the Student 
Ocvclopmt·nt Commissioner, the Spiritual 
Commissioner, the NSA Co-ordinator, the 
Social Commissioner, the Public Rela­
tions Commissioner, (a newly created 
post), and the Academic Activities Com­
missioner. 
The Driscoll recommendation called 
for the appointment of the Student Ser­
vices Organization Director and the Com­
missioners by the Student Body President 
President and the permanent members of 
her cabinet. (These permanent members 
include the four class presidents, the 
Student Body Vice-President, and the Academic Affairs Commissioner.) St. Mary's commissioners arc now elected at the same time as the Student Body President and Vice-President. 

Under the proposal approved last night the Student Services Organization Dricctor could he given power to co-or­d inatc student service functions and stu­dent service organizations without the approval of the Student Body President as long as student services organization policy and student government policy do not conflict. Conflict would be resolved by the Student Assembly' 
Also provided in the legislation intro­duced by Miss Driscoll was a proposal for a Student Services Comptroller who would administer a budget separate from the Student (;ovcrnment budget. 
It was also recommended that hoth the Student Services Organization and Stu­dent Covcrnment's budgets he approved by the Student Assembly. The Student Government budget is not currently sub­ject to this approval. 
Other recommendations made by the Legislature which will hl~ brought before the student referendum of March 14 included one by Student Body Vice-Presi­dent Sally Stroebel for the appointment instead of election of the Student Body Secretary and Treasurer. 
Also to he recommended to the Stu­dent Body is that the third student (the Student Body President and Vice-Presi­dent arc mt•rnbcrs hy virtue of their offices) representative on the Student Affairs Council he elected hy the Student Body and that the Academic Affairs Commissioner he elcctcci by the Student Body as its representative in academic reform and curriculum change. 
3.5% of the total vote, as opposed to McKenna's .2%. 
The actual vote was taken by choosing twenty people at random from each hall, with the exception of Moreau, and St. Joseph's. 
Mroz 133 McKenna 100 Kendall 17 Apt 9 McCartin 14 McHugh 9 Welshman 9 Others 15 Undecirll"d 127 

The poll did not include off-campus students, for fear that a distorted picture of their voting trend would come across. The poll should accurately reflect the preferences, campus wide, though there may be discrepancies within each hall. A cross check was run on the poll to determine its accuracy. The tabulated results from Dillon showed that the vote was split down the middle, six to six, with the other votes scattered. A second poll taken the next day, showed an 8 to 7 vote in favor of Mroz. There was a corresponding drop in the number of those undecided. 
The poll was also broken down into classes, and some interesting results may be noted. In the upper classes Mroz takes about a third of the vote. lie picks up sharply in the freshman class. McKenna runs even with him among the seniors and juniors, but falls off among the sopho­mores and drops sharply among the fresh­men. 
SENIORS Mroz 32.4% McKenna 31.8% Kendall 3.0% Apt 0.0% McCartin 3.2% Others 4.4% Undecided 25.3% 

In the junior class, McKenna pulls ahead of Mroz for the only lime, among all categories listed. 
(Continued on page 6) 

: On the Inside... : •
•
--Thieman reviews two good • records, p. 5. 
-Kay Markle looks at the c.o., p. 5. 

• -Don Hynes considers McCarthy, • p. 4. • 
: -NCAA tournament pairings, p. 8. : 
·ruE OBSERVER 
PAGE 2 




McCarthy presented Fellow A ward 
(Continued [rom page 1) McCarthy was then asked to comment on the recent heated exchanges between Chicago's Mayor Daley and former Vice-President Hubert H. Humphrey. ''I'm not very close to the Mayor," said McCarthy. "I think the basic rift in the Democratic Party has surfaced. Hubert H umphrcy repudiated, in a sense, what he tacitly supported (the beating of students) at the convention. Mayor Daley represents the traditional tight control of the convention rather  than an open convention." "I propose we haw a national Democratic Convention in 1970," he said, "to sec if the Party has changed and to heal any wounds that have arisen." Senator McCArarthy then turned to the Nixon administration. "I think they've done all right," hl' said. "Walter Hickle responded to the crisis on the California oil leaks pretty well. The cabinet generally is pretty good." The Senator said Nixon's visit to Europe was reassuring to  Europeans were reassured to sec that he isn't as bad as people said he was ten years ago," McCarthy said. "At least he doesn't appear to be. I think it was a positive achievement. It certainly was the appropriate place for Nixon to go on his first trip, because we don't have any trou hie there." Asked about his own political future and any plans to run for re-election in I970, Senator M<.:Carthy replied, "I don't know what I'll do." Elaborating, he said, "Right now I don't know whcther I'll  
Europeans.  "I  think  the  run  or  not.  

~ ~ 


SantaFe 
~ ~ 


SANTA FE RAILWAY 
will interview students at the 
UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME 
Thursday, March 13, 1969 to review 


CAREER OPPORTUNITIES 
Santa Fe is a transportation company serving 
the southwest by rail. truck and pipeline. 
We have substantial interests in oil. lumber. 
uranium. coal. real estate and other 
enterprises. too. 

If you would like more information about a career with Santa Fe where the only limit to your future is your desire. ability and effort. arrange for an on-campus interview. We want to talk with you. 
Santa Fe offers career opportunities in: Accounting, Sales, Engineering (Mechanical, Electrical, Civil, Metallurgical, Industrial). Transportation Management, Information Systems and Electronic Data-Processing, Market Research, Purchasing and Inventory Control, Cost Analysis, Personnel and Labor Relations, Public Relations, Advertising and Real Estate Management. 
We are looking for individuals with Bachelors and Masters degrees in: Accounting, Business Administration, Transportation, Engineering, Mathematics, Statistics, Economics and Liberal Arts. 
Schedule your interview with the University Placement Office and ask for "You and Santa Fe." a brochure featuring Santa Fe career opportunities. 


L-------------------------------------------------------------------------1 
FRIDAY, MARCH!· 1CJ69 
·THE WORLD TODAY 
·­

Jury learns of Sirhan plea for death 
LOS ANGELES (UPI) -The jury hearing the murder trial of 
Sirhan B. Sirhan learned for the first time yesterday that the 
dcfendcnt tried to plead guilty last Friday and asked to be executed. 
During the incident last Friday, the jury of eight men and four 
women was not in court. However, the record of Sirhan's outburst 
was read before the jury yesterday by chief defense counsel Grant 
Cooper. 

Doopcr was given an opportunity to get the incident into the 
record after deputy Dist. Atty. Lynn Compton, apparently 
commiting a faux pas, asked Sirhan on cross examination about a 
statement he had made at that time to the judge. 
The statement was: "I killed Robert Kennedy willfully and 
premeditately and with 20 years of malice aforethought." 
At this point Cooper rose to object and said, "I think that should 
be put in context." 
Lawyers from both sides went to the bench and after a whispered 
conference with Judge Herbert V. Walker Cooper read into the 
record last Friday's incident. 
Cooper also asked Sirhan, who is 24, how old he would have been 
20 years ago. 
"About 4 years old," Sirhan said. "I didn't even know what 
malice was." 
The court was adjourned until 9:30a.m. Friday. 
Earlier in the day Sirhan said, with a sheepish grin on his face and 
a detached air, that he had at least two gin drinks -tom collinscs-at 
the Ambassador Hotel late June 4 shortly before Kennedy was 
mortally wounded. 

Reformer fells of prison misconduct 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -While big-time mobsters were given 
private cells furnished with refrigerators and liquor, young prisoners 
were beaten, homosexually raped~~or even murdered-in Chicago's 
Cook County jail, a prison reformer told a Senate subcommittee 
yesterday. 
Joseph R. Rowan, executive director of the John Howard Association of Illinois, a nonprofit organization concerned with improving prison conditions, testified before the juvenile delin­quency subcommittee, which is investigating alleged mistreatment of juvenile offenders. 
Rowan, who said many zoos had better standards than most 
correctional facilities for children, told of a study of the Cook 
County jail he completed more than a year ago. Since then, he said, 
"It's improved I00 percent but we have 100 percent to go." 
His investigation disclosed that jail employees "were doing 
laundry for the syndicate people. There were refrigerators for the 
syndicate men. Whisky was brought in-1 0 pints at a time," Rowan 
said. 

On the other hand, he testified, "one 14 year old boy was dry 
shaved, producing about 50 cuts, and later sexually attacked by foUJr 
adult offenders. Another young boy was repeatedly attacked 
sexaully by various inmates and went into a catatonic state. He 
ended up in a mental hospital. 
"One 18-year old youth was wrapped in a blanket, soaked with 
benzine and set afire. He died." 

Hippie connected with brotal slayings 
TRURO' Mass. (UPI) -A hippie type amateur taxidermist was ordered held without bail on murder charges yesterday in the mutilation deaths of two of four women whose bodies were found in shallow graves in this Cape Cod community. The hearts were missing from the dismembered bodies. 
Even as police searched the scrub pine studded sandy wasteland for any more bodies, Antone Costa, 24, a currently unemployed sometimes carpenter with a literary fondness for existentialist authors, was arraigned in nearby Provincetown, a summer artists' mecca and hippie hangout. 
After his court appearance which attracted an overflow crowd including a number of hippies, Costa was committed to Bridgewater State Hospital for 35 days observation. A plea of innocent to two murder counts was entered on his behalf. 
Costa, short and slight, with mustache, sideburns and semi-mod hair style wearing "granny" glasses, was taken to the courthouse after Dist. Atty. Edmund S. Dinis disclosed grisly details in the case, the most bizarre in New England since 13 women were murdered by the Boston Strangler between June 1962 to January 1964. 

Deserter sentenced by military court 
FT. DIX, N.J. (UPI) -A military court of officers yesterday 
sentenced Spec. 4 Edwin C. Arnett to four years at hard labor in the 
nation's first trial of a soldier deserting his Vietnam unit and seeking 
asylum in Sweden. 
Arnett, a baldish, 30 year old Army cook, paled and teetered as 
the seven man, one woman panel announced the sentence. It was his 
first show of emotion in the nine day trial. 
The sentence, arrived at in little more than an hour, included 
forfeiture of all pay, reduction to the lowest enlisted rank and a 
dishonorable discharge. 
Arnett told reporters after the sentencing he had not expected 
such a stiff penally but added. "You never can tell." The maximum 
sentence was five years. 
Arnett said that because of his conviction and sentence, he doubts 
that other American deserters in Sweden will return to this country 
to face charges. "I think now that nobody will return," he said. 



PAGE 3
FRIOAY, MARCH 7, Hl69 THE OBSERVER 
IBM invites you to join an infant industry. 
Big as it is, the information processing 
industry is just beginning to grow. 
Recently, Fortune estimated that the value of general purpose computers installed in this country will more than double by 1972. Other publications have other predictions, and probably no source is totally precise. But most agree that information processing is one of America's fastest growing major industries. 
Every day, it seems, computers go to work in a new field or new application. IBM com­puters are working in such diverse fields as business, law, medicine, oceanography, traffic control, air pollution. Just about any area you can name. 
To somebody just starting out, this growth 
means exceptionally good chances for 
advancement. Last year, for example, we 
appointed over 4,000 managers-on 
performance, not seniority. Here are lour 
ways you could grow with IBM: 
Engineering and Science 

"The interdisciplinary environment keeps you technologicaliy hot." 
"Working in data process­ing today pretty much means you work in a broad spectrum 
of technologies," says Nick Donofrio. 
An Associate Engineer at IBM, Nick is a 1967 graduate in Electrical Engineering. 
He's using his technical background to de­sign circuits for computer memory systems. 
Nick says, "Your specialty at IBM can take you into the front yard of half a dozen dif­ferent fields. In my job, for example, I work with systems design engineers, chemists, 
physicists, metallurgists, and programmers. 
The diversity helps me keep up to date on the latest technologies." 
Career areas in engineering and science at IBM include: Research, Design & Develop-
Other reasons to consider IBM 
1. 
Small Team Concept. No matter how large a prOJect may be, we break it d0wn into units small enough to be handled by one person or a few people. Result: quick recog­nition for achievement. 

2. 
Educafional Support. IBM employees spend over thirteen million hours a year in company-sponsored educational and training programs. And plans like our Tuition 


ment, Manufacturing, Product Test, Space and Defense Projects, and Field Engineering. You'll need at least a B.S. in any technical field. 
Marketing 

"Working with company presidents is part of the job." 
··rm pretty much the IBM Corporation in the eyes of my customers," says Andy Moran. "I consider that fairly good for an engineer who graduated only two years ago.'' 
Andy earned his B.S.E.E. in 1966. Today. he's a Marketing Representative with IBM. involved in the planning, selling and installa­tion of data processing systems. 
Andy's customers include companies with annual sales ranging from 20 million to 120 million dollars. He often works with executive vice-presidents and presi­dents. Andy says, ·'At first I was a little nervous about the idea of advising execu­tives at that level. But by the time I finished train1ng, I knew I was equ1pped to do the JOb... 
Career areas in marketing at IBM include: Data Processmg Marketing and Systems Engineering, Office Products Sales, and Information Records Sales. Degree require­ment: B.S. or B.A. in any field. 
Finance 

"You're in an ideal spot to move ahead fast." 
"I've always figured my chances for advance­ment would be better in a growth industry. That's why I picked IBM," says Joe Takacs. 
Joe·s been working in general accounting 
Refund Program could help you get your Masters or Ph.D. 
3. 
300 Locations. We have nlmost 50 plant, laboratory, or hendquarters locations and over 250 branch offices in key cities throughout the United States. 

4. 
Op~ni.Dg§.at t-Il Degree Levels. We have many appropriate starting jobs for people at 



any degree level: Bachelors, Masters or Ph.D. 

since he got his B.B.A. in June, 1968. Growth wasn't the only reason he chose IBM. He says, "I learned that it's general practice at IBM to promote from within and to promote on merit alone. I like that. 
'·Another growth factor is the job itself," Joe says. "During my first few years, I'll get experience in nearly every area of general accounting-Income & Expense. Balance Sheet. and so on. I'll be learning how the company is structured and how it operates on a broad scale. That's exactly the kind of knowledge I'll need to help me qualify lor a manager's job." 
Career areas in finance at IBM include: Financial Planning and Control, Financial Analysis. Accounting, Information Systems, and Internal Auditing. You'll need at least a Bachelor's degree. 
Programming 
"It's a mixture of science and art." 
is prac­tically use­less until some­body writes a program for it,'' says Earl Wilson. 
Earl got a B.A. in Modern 
' 

Languages in June, 1967. He·s now an IBM programmer working on a teleprocessing system that will link the computerized management information systems of several IBM divisions. 
Earl defines a "program" as a set of instructions that enables a computer to do a specific job. "Programming involves science," says Earl, "because you have to analyze problems logically and objectively. But once you·ve made your analysis, you have an infinite variety of ways to use a computers basic abilities. There's all the room in the world for individual expression." 
Career areas in programming at IBM include: Systems Programming. Applications Pro­gramming, Programming Research, and Internal Programming for IBM's own use. You'll need at least a B.S. or B. A. 
Visit your 
placement office Sign up at your place­ment office for nn 
interview with IBM 
ON CAMPUS MAR. 12,13 

An Equal Opporh:nity Employer 






THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Next up: Vaciline 
Monday afternoon the Student Life Council overwhelmingly approved the final two of three hall life bills in its first significant action it has taken since its inception last fall. Unfortunately since University President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh has elected to forward the resolutions to the ad hoc committee of the Board of Trustees, the implementation of the bills will be delayed. Depending upon the action of the committee, and they may decide to wait for the full Board meeting later in the spring, the resolutions may not be effective until next fall. 
We commend the Council for finally approving the long-needed and long sought-after reforms of student life. However it took more than a semester of committce consideration and discussion before the Council acted. The delay was entirely too long. 
It is a good indication, however, that the SLC can effect important changes. We would only hope that in the future they act with more dispatch in their considerations. 
Such prompt action will be needed this week as the SLC considers the plight of Vaciline, the student-produced publication confiscated by Executive Vice-President Rev. Edmund P. Joyce. If the SLC delays action or refuses to move on the confiscation then it will have failed to act in a crisis which is especially significant to students, if not to anyone else. 
The confiscation shows in a clear light 
that the Administration, and Joyce is in constant contact with Hesburgh no matter how far out of town he is, will sweetly approve of resolutions from the endless number of legislative bodies on campus so long as they remain as inane and innocuous as they have in the past. The University Ad ministration will move unilaterally, outside the structures it has created of its own hand, whenever it feels the issue warrants its attention. 
No matter what law or interpretation is used, Joyce has absolutely no right to halt the binding of Vaciline. It had been dutifully approved by the Student Union Board of Directors, which judged it at the request of an SLC subcomn1ittee. Acting on his own feelings, regardless of the correct procedures already enacted, Joyce simply stopped the booklet. 
It is our opinion that Joyce's action is a perfect example of the "totalitarian tactics" Hesburgh referred to in describing the CIA-Dow sit-in. Ironically it was Hcsburgh's number two man who performed so dictatorially. Hcsburgh should take a clue from his own latest letter and reprimand Joyce '·'as not understanding what a community is." The Notre Dame "community" as we have been taught for so these many years includes faculty, student AND administrators. 
The Student Life Council must order the return to its editors of the magazine, and if it docs not, then students, and faculty as well, have as much to say about this University as they did ten years ago-which is to say, nothing. 


Commendation 
For the past two days Minnesota Senator Eugene McCarthy, a great favorite among college students since and during his campaign for the 1968 Democratic Presidential nomination, has been on campus participating in classes, meeting informally with students outside of classes and during meals as the first Senior Fell ow. 
We highly commend senior Chuck Sheedy and his Senior Fellow Committee, not only for their selection of McCarthy, but, more than that, for the entire format they have created. The organization and concept of the Senior Fellow far surpasses that of the fortunately defunct anachronistic Patriot of the Year Award. 
In past years seniors voted from among several nominees for their choice, although their first choice was often not the eventual award winner. Whoever would come here on Washington's Birthday to receive it was invited to be the Patriot. And the ceremony was little more than a brief speech to rarely more than a few hundred students. 
The Senior Fellow Committee, on the other hand, began work last spring, reviewing recommendations from students. Their selection was made far enough in advance so the person eventually selected as the Fellow would have ample time to make plans. 
This year the Senior Fellow is just what the name implies a Fellow. He spends two days on campus chatting and meeting with students: Students have an opportunity to learn from and about one of the nations' finest men firs"t hand. And no doubt the Fellow learns as much from students. 
Again we commend Chuck Sheedy and hope that next year's committee will work as smoothly, competently and with as much taste and foresight this spring in making their selection as did Sheedy's committee last year. 
FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 1969 

NCW Tl-IAI W£'V~ CONJ='"tSC.m"E:.D 
ALL Tl-lESE: SnJI:>eNr MANUALS­
\NHAT 1RE WE ~ONNA "DO wrn-l'cl'·f? 
11111111111111111111111111111111111~11111111111111111111111111111111 

Don Hynes 
The Knight 
1111111111111111111,1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Eugene M \..-earthy's approach to politics has often reminded me of a Sutton Place matron attempting to unstop her toilet. She will only touch the plunger, distastefully, as a necessary evil for correcting the problem, and never associates the source of the clog the waste, as part of her own self. The plunging must be done though, and McCarthy has held his nose, entered the fray, and done his best to correct the problem of politic<JI manure in Amcric<J. 
During his press conference <Jnd <Jt the beginning of his acceptance speech, the senator's humour was soft, and cutting in the academic style of allusory unoffensiwness. He fit the manner well, and seemed at case when he was able to joke about the Mayor Daleys and the party in-fights. Questions that demanded straight and serious answers seemed painful to McCarthy, and a pain which he would apparently rather avoid. 
The McCarthy humour went over well at the award presentation. His rapport with the people was easy and comfortable. The country and its politics have been too confusing, too overwhelming for the "ordinary citizen," and here was a man that seemed to have an over-view of the chaos. A m<Jn who was still able to laugh at the pitfalls of man in society, and not so much laugh at, as laugh with-a real enjoyment that the senator was willing to share. And the people were eager to share his enjoyment. They had heard too many diatribes, too many fateful and doom ridden eulogies on twentieth century man. They were laughing with the smile on McCarthy's face before he even delivered the punch line. A public laugh had been absent that long. 
Politics in the twenty-first century was the topic, and then suddenly the senator was back in the fifteenth. He talked about the mid-evil universities as an example for educational institutions to follow today, the mid-evil structures being ones separated from their societies, and in the senator's words "ones which passed judgments on the institutions of society from a·n independent position." 
The mid-evil allusions continued though. McCarthy began talking about vocations, a calling to the individual from above to which it was his duty lo respond. The vocations gave way to suggestions of where the individual could manifest his adulthood and responsibility, "in church, economy or government." McCarthy's voice seemed to get older with his ideas. His tone lowered and seemed to trail off. The attention of the audience was faltering and the senator appeared to fade faster. "Individuals must be concerned with institutions and the perfection of them." The man who was demolished by institutions, and who takes a knightly pride in this destruction, was calling for a new attempt at personal involvement in the spider webs of bureaucracy. Even Cervantes would have blanched. 
McCarthy quoted numerous clerics in defense of his argument, lumped John XXIII and Harry Truman into one category as men willing to act on their own, to lake chances, without regard for history, and pointed to reason as man's only viable tool and defense. The senator's closing remark was a request for the youth of this country to "proceed in confidence and hope in the future." The note was so low that it took some time for the aud"ience to realize that the speech was over, and for their applause to follow. 
The dirge of the Alma Maler rounded out the program and was a most expressive closing phrase. McCarthy had spoken of a faith in a mid-evil approach to society, and a faith in institutions as man's hope. The senator was speaking of the dead, to the dead, and he was dying in the process himself. Notre Dame expected the attacker of windmills, the preserver of the institutions of church and state, and Eugene McCarthy delivered. Somehow I think that he was putting Notre Dame on, or at least I hope so. The senator is too clever a man to relish in decay. 
PAGE 5



Grape '69 and Wonderwall: Dual Reviewal 
by Bill Thieman I like every song on that first album absence encouraging, and sure enough, Wow. His songs arc easy ballads (he must Ever since 1 first noticed music (and ("Omaha", their first and last single, is in last week Mohy Grape '69 turned up at write them in a reverie of some sort) and first bought records) it has struck me that fact one of the lesser ones). For the the bookstore. he sings them like they were written good records seem to come in barrages: it better part of a year I waited impatiently The liner notes for the new album (by almost hauntingly. "I am Not Willing': was singles when I was in high school, for more Grape. Around last Easter, the producer Dave Rubenstein) formally and "What to Choose," his two songs on albums now. Rut it's always been the word filtered down that a new Grape renounce the commercialism that the new album, arc particularly same, a moh of good records that I want album was on the market: two records, characterized their first two albums noteworthy because they arc about the to buy but can't hope to afford and then Wow and Grape Jam (with Mike (Mohy Urar1e was one of the first albums only songs on Mohy (;rape '69 where the seven years of famine before another Bloomfield and AI Koopcr). Wow was a I remember to include a poster) and lyrics are intelligible. The ultimate battery of sounds is released and once major disappointment; Grape Jam is a promise "no more gimmicks, no more extension of the Grape concern with again I have to stretch my meager good jam, but it's not the tight 'sound hypes, .. nothing ever again but the sound rather than content is "Seeing," economy to buy as many as 1 possibly that is Grape. That was the last I heard of music . . ." Rubenstein's notes seem the last song on the album. The song (a can. There have been two of those major the Moby Grape till they appeared on sincere; whether or not they are, the good one even if Skip Spence did write it) barrages since the beginning of the school Jerry Lewis in the fall. There were only album is a return to, perhaps an leaps back and forth between an almost year: the first came around Thanksgiving four; Skip Spence (who some trivia improvement on the Moby Grape of choral ballad and raucous blues; but the (and starred the Beat/es and Beggars' experts may remember as the drummer Mohy Grape. strange thing is that, although there is lots 1/anquet ); more recently, since semester on Jefferson Airplane Takes o;n was no The G ra pc sound is a peculiar of singing, if there arc any lyrics at all 1 break it has been happening again (when 1 longer with the group. When I saw them phenomenon. Their instruments are good can only pick out skattcred words. But, think of some of the albums 1could have live, Spence seemed completely (Mosley is a great bass and Jerry Miller· like Rubenstein says, they're interested in bought with the money 1 squandered on superfluous: he jumped around a lot, sang ~roved his guitaring on Grape Jam), but "music" and music doesn't necessarily charity food, clothing, and shelter ). This very little, and took occasional stabs at mstrumcnts arc not their essence. The need lyrics. I don't miss them on Mohy whole problem also makes it difficult to playing the guitar that usually hung Grape vocalize like nobody else I've ever Grape '69. . write record reviews, i.e. at this moment lifelessly on his grubby buckskins. Spence heard; they usc their voices as When the rumors circulated that there arc about six records vying for my wrote the few songs that I considered bad instruments. Lyrics arc almost incidental Sargeant Pep(le' was the Bcatlcs' last dubiously valued critical eye. At the same ("Motorcycle Irene" et al.); I found his to their songs. because their voices blend album together, that they were going time, I must cope with the fact that 1like their separate ways, I considered it a great all of them, and I have liked all the loss to music. But if George Harrison's records I have reviewed this year. That is Wonderwa/1 Music is any indication of not to say that there aren't records 1 what they can do on their own, they can don't like (there arc lots), but whenever J break up any time they want. think about panning a record 1 can always I have always liked IIarrison's song think of two others that 1 love. And my writing, from "Don't Bother Me" (Meet mother has always told me, "If you can't the 1/eat/es) to "Happiness is a Warm say anything nice about someone, don't Gun" (The Beatles). But George has way say anything at all." Morn, I'm going to outdone himself this time. For a while I say some nice things: and, dear reader, found his Indian thing a little tedious; because there arc SO many nice albums particularly on "Within You, Without I'm going to write about two of them. ' You' it seemed to lack conviction. I never hc11rd of Mohy (;rape before 1 Harrison has come a long way since he sat saw them with the Mamas and Papas in at the feet of Ravi Shankar, though. lie Junc, 1967; as far as I was concerned, isn't imitating any more, and he has sifted they were the whole show. There were the Indian sound through his own five of them then and they all sang well. personality. his own genius, and come up Hoh Mosley and l'ctcr Lewis sang with an all new crossbreed of music. beautifully and their harmonics were Harrison docs not play on the album incredibly good, the first fresh vocal (although I think I detect his voice on sound that I had heard since the Bcatlcs. 1 one or two of the scattered vocal bought their first album, Mohr (,'rape, passages). He merely wrot" it, arranged it, the next day and it has been in my top and produced it. !'heir arc eighteen three ever since. musicians on the album (eleven of them

'iBY'"'ii3i-i18'.''"' ,,, ·················································································· ·~ ~~:~~~:~~~~·~ :::~r:::~~~:~:::·~; ::;~~~> ..~:~.~~~~::.''~:~'b:·~,;~,~~~:o~:~
:;:: lyrics. Their harmonics· defy analysis as The album could be called aY W3Y 0 e COUrtrOOm t well as duplication. They seem to strike hodge-podge (but The Beat/es could be
B f th 

::;: me as off-key sometimes the first time 1 called a hodge-podge, too). There is an 
Dan Berrigan is the kind of person who would have caused an embarrassing ;:;: hear them, but they never arc. They seem amazing variety to the album; there arc says things like, "If the issue is the right amount of trouble. He speaks easily over ;:;: to be very high, but you can pick out low ragas and there arc chants; there is an one, one issue is enough, and will lead a the phone and outside people arc scaling ~~~~ voices if you listen hard. All four of them Indian honky tonk ("Drilling a Home" man to all the others," without sounding Alumni tower, readying for a mortar ;~;~ (Miller, Mosley, Don Stevenson, the and there is a country and western likl· a pseudo-radical who is over thirty attock en the Golden Dome. :;:; drummer, and Peter Lewis, rhythm) sing arrangement of "Silent Night" called hut really wants 
;:;: leads (at least they did when I saw them) "Cowboy Museum," and there is
At Cornell, where Berrigan lives now, 
to he 21. He is a ;~;~ and all arc capable of great background scattered hard rock.
the students arc doing something that 
Jesuit priest and ;:;: vocals (they can make even oohs and aahs Wonderwa/1 Music is the soundtrack
Berrigan likes. It's not as bizarre as a 
he is well over ;~;~ sound new). "from an unknown movie called
napalm run on the local Selective Service 
thirty. His :;:; Moby Grape '69 is a fluctuating Wonderwa/1. It is brilliantly produced in
office, but it has its own charm. It has to
brother Phil was :;:; combination of country rock, rhythm stereo and it is a gas to listen to. There is
do with digging around for the issue that
the first Catholic' :;:;and blues and folk rock. Grape too much in it to analyze, and somehow I
is the right one and the sufficient one, the 
priest jailed in lhl' :;:; country-rock is different from the old don't feel adequate in writing anything
issue that can lead a man to all the others.
United States for ~;~; Spoonful country in that it results mostly about it at all. The album is an experience
How docs the university invest its 
a political ;~;~ from instrumentation and Jacks the nitty in itself and talking about it only detracts
money? l'coplc want to know at Cornell,
conviction. In 1 ;:;: gritty country vocals of John Sebastian. from the experience. Experience it
how and where and does it preach
October of 1967 Phil Berrigan protested ;~;~ That's no loss however, for Moby Grape yourself.
community and social justice whilethe draft in his own inimitable way by ;:;: have substituted their own vocal sound
participating' in its own brand of
pouring blood over a filing cabinet full of ;:;: with a result that, if comparisons must be
exploitation? Docs it drain off the
Selective' Service records. ;:;; made, reminds me a little of the first
resources of the community it inhabitsThe fo:towing May he and Dan and a ;~;~ Buffalo Springfield album (though the
and put very little back in? Is it making
few of their friends (presumably they arc ;:;: Grape are more electric). There are three
life a bit more difficult for the people
not the kind of people who have a lot of ;:;; of these songs on the new album: "Ain't
who have to live around it? The arrogance
friends) napalmed some other draft files. ;~;~ That a Shame," "If you Can't Learn
of power is not a new concept; the power
That got Phil six years in prison; Dan, ;;:; From My Mistakes," and "Captian
of the university has gotten very great
who has been at Cornell since 1965, can't :;;: Ncmo." In the rhythm and blues category
and its arrogance is commensurate. Bothleave the campus without court approval. :;:~ we have two contenders. The leadoff song
the arrogance and the power have roots
It is not an overwhelmingly pleasant way :;:; on the album "Ooh Mama Ooh", seems
which arc basically economic. Basically.to live, but Dan takes the view that "the Find a couple of professors, said ~;~; to take its cue from the return to early . best way to come into the world is to ;:;: rock that has stemmed from "Lady
Berrigan, a couple of professors who 
come in by the way of the courtroom. :;:; Madonna" (it features a bass voice
know where to find things and aren'tYou might just as well be ready and on ~;~; uttering classic expletives like dipdipdip
afraid of looking there and find a group
the edge of jail these days because that is ;:;: and ramalamadingdong). Trucking Man"
of students who like to be listened to
where life and action arc." Limited ;:;: is hard core rhythm and blues only
because they have a sheaf of facts in their 
movement perhaps, hut life and action ;:;: slightly electrified, complete with Chuck
hands, and sec what happens with the just the same. } Berry Chord progression, guitar lead, and
officialdom that doesn't have the time to
Dan Berrigan docs not deal lightly with 

:;;; tinkling piano. "lloochic Man" is rhythm
put up with protests for more than I 5 
repression of any sort. He hates the 

minutes at a stJctch. Berrigan thinks it's :;:; and blues to an extent but is more like 
ghettoes and the draft and VietNam and 

the way to crack some of the concrete }. the strange hybrids that proliferated the 
Father llcshurgh's k'ttcr struck hint as a 

heads popuh1ting the administration; and ;~;;first album. The folk-rock songs arc Peter 
fascist sort of thing, really appealing to 

those who think (;corge Wallace has a lot 

going for him. It wasn't too intl'lligl·nt, 

action is, on the inside of a cell, looking }first album (probably their best song) and 
out. :;:;''lie", one of the few saving graces on 


("J,A Woman") ADMITTED 
fl<ol__.tl\ft>UI:h 
favorite beers and liquors
hl"Dl"BON Fll.MS 

SECOND WEEK 
seven days a week. 
Razor Cutting Continental Sty! ing 

A SERVICE OF STUDENT UNION 
Feature Weekdays 6:45--9:20 
Mornmgs --Mon., Tues., Thurs.

Starts: Saturday 7:00--9:20 LOST: 
Afternoon ~.~on., Wed., Sat.
/ 
Sunday From 1:00 
Ci'l! Mon. for STUDE'NT 
Lady's prescription sunglasses 
SPECIAL Oren Evenings by Appt. 
Reward, 284-4489.
1-25 E. Colfax Ave., So. Bend Phone 234-9737





Pieli 
STEWART MIXER
il 

SANDWICH Barat College SERVICE 
SATURDAY 8-12:30



PillI' 
all invited 
Available in every 
hall on campus

Budweiser® 
MET CLUB 
Stewart Sandwich 
EASTER PLANE SALES 
Service


is the 
925 Blaine 232-2625 Sun. 7:00 STUDENT CENTER 

King of Beers® 
(But you know that) 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC.-ST. LOUIS • NEWARK • LOS ANGELES • TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS 
SAVE! 
on New & Used Cars 1969 GTO 
400 cc H.D. 3sp., wide oval, radio, buckets, heater, custom interior. ........... $2824 
1969 FIREBIRD 
350 cc, 3sp., wide ovals, radio, buckets, custom interior ... $2649 See DAN TUTKO (class of '67) at WELTER PONTIAC, 3:30 to closin 
'RIVER-PARK 
-MISHAWAKA AVE, at 30th: PHONE 288-8488 
Winne;-;;{ 3Academy Awards! 

TECHNICO"'OR' PANAVISION' 
~FROM WARIIIER BROS.-SEVEN ARTS. 
Times: Mon-Fri 5:55 8:40 Sat, Sun 2:15, 5:20, 8:30 
8:30PM 8:30-1:00 PM 
7:00PM 
3:30PM 
7:00PM 
8:00PM 

STUDENT 
UNION 

CALENDAR 
Friday, March 7 
"Antigone" by Sophocles, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint 
Mary's Junior and Sophomore Class Party; Music: Cambridge 5; Laurel Club, $3.00-$3.50 
Saturday, March 8 
Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre Hosts Theatre Day 
Sunday, March 9 _ 
Studio II, Washington Hall 
Monday, March 10 
AFROTC Lecture Series-Library Auditorium and Lounge 
Tuesday, March 11 
Studio II, Washington Hall 
Wednesday, March 12 
Collegiate Jazz Festival Symposium, Center for Continu· ing Education 
PAGE 6 THE OBSERVER FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 1969 


'Vaciline' editors to write trustees 
(Continued from page 1) 

Marty McNamara and Don 
Hynes, publishers of Vaciline, 
stated yesterday that they had 
presented these charges to Rev. 
James Riehle, Dean of Students, 
with the purpose of having him 
process them. Riehle refused, 
however, on the grounds that he 
had no jurisdiction over a 
member of the administration or 
any other non-student. 

McNamara opposed Riehle's refusal by offering two reasons why Riehle would have authority in this matter. McNamara stated first that both charges are contained in the Student Manual and therefore come under Riehle's jurisdiction. When questioned about the validity of these charges, McNamara stated that Rule Five, which guards against theft of property, is a sentence fragment with no antecedent. Riehle claims that students must be the agent for the infraction; but the grammar is unclear and there are more indications throughout the manual that what are termed 'University Rules' pertain to the University community and not just to students." 
The second charge according to McNamara is found under the first provision of the University publication policy in the Student Manual. McNamara and Hynes contend that this charge 
is  also  connected  with  this  
incident.  
McNamara  stated  that  the  
second  reason  he  had  for  

expecting Riehle to process his charge was that "Riehle maintained that a student can only press charges against another student. When he was confronted with an instance where he had processed and signed a complaint by a student against a faculty member, a St. Mary's student, and a non-student (Robert Narucki's complaint against the CIA demonstrators), he shrugged it off saying it was 'a special circumstance.' He would not elaborate on why it was a special circumstance." 
Riehle stated however that he processed Namcki's complaint over to the Judicial Board because it contained 'lames of 1 students as well as a faculty member and a St. Mary's student. Riehle then stated that it was the Judicial Board's duty to forward the charges against the St. Mary's student to the St. Mary's Judicial Board and the charges against the faculty member to the organization which is set up to handle these charges. 
"I don't have any authority to process charges against a member of the administration or any other non-student of Notre 
tthU-ring PERSONS
ESSY UNDER 11 PERSSON CANNOTat 

Dame," Riehle said. had no authority in thi!• 
After leaving Riehle's office situation. He told them that in McNamara and Hynes proceeded order to bring charges agains1t to the office of Rev. Theodore Joyce, they would have to write Hesburgh CSC, President of the the Chairman of the University University, McNamara stated Board of Trustees. that Hesburgh told them that he 
Poll shows Mroz lead 
(Continued [rom page 1) 
JUNIORS 
Mroz 
26.1% 
McKenna 
31.0% 
Kendall 
7.0% 
Apt 
4.1% 
McCartin 
.7% 
Others 
11.1% 
Undecided 
20.0% 
SOPHOMORES 
Mroz 29.3% McKenna 22.8% Kendall 3.7% Apt 2.2% McCartin 5.2% Others 6.6% Undecided 30.2% 
The large majority provided by the freshmen class gives Mroz ~he boost needed to put him ahead. As pointed out, the two men run almost even in the upper three classes, but the freshmen votes are the deciding factor. 

Candidate Smith enters debate 
In a prepared statement to the OBSERVER, SBP candidate Kevin Smith announced that he would join fellow candidates Mike Kendall, John Mroz and Phil McKenna in a debate next Sunday. 
"If the student body is expected to make a correct choice in this election," said Smith, "it is essential that they be allowed to view the major candidates together." 
Smith said that the proposal for a debate was a "good one," adding that "it is only in the clash of contending views that the best ideas can he formulated." 
In an additional statement, Smith suggested a few academic changes. He proposed that "all non-major courses he conducted on a pass/fail system," and that Philosophy/Theology requirements be reduced from 24 to 12 hours. 
For the freshman year in 
"a
particular, Smith suggested 
FRESHMEN 
Mroz 37.6% 
McKenna 11.1% 
Kendall 1.8% 
Apt 
.9% McCartin 3.6% Others 4.4% 
Undecided 40.5% Primary emphasis must be placed on the huge amoun~ of undecided votes among · the freshmen. It may be that w·1ich ever way they go, the entire class will go. The poll of course cannot be claimed to be strictly precist~. Since the time the poll was taken, there may have been a trend among the undecided towards one particular candJi­date. The only thing that may be said with any accuracy, is that thus far it is not a runaway for any candidate. Seemingly the election will hinge on those that are undecided. 
greater diversification of 
mathematics courses," a 
"broader range of Liberal ~.rts 
and Business courses," and the 
opportunity for freshmen to 
begin immediately on their 
desired majors. 
He added that he would "like 
to sec the initiation at Notre 
Dame of a tri-mester system." 

SMC Dean's List 
The SMC Dean's List was posted by the Registrar last week with 384 students or 30'}:, of the student body having a grade point average of 3.25 or better. There are 12 straight "A" 

students this semester: Ann Acker, Patricia Beall, Joan Donovan, Barbara Dowd, Gail Garvey, Mary Kennedy, Kath­leen Lammers, Andrea Magazzu, Barbara Murphy, Barbara Spa­kowski, Madge Tuthill, and Kathleen Walker. 
The senior class has 43% on 
the Dean's List, the juniors 38%, 
sophomores 34%. and the fresh­
men 15%. 

JAYS LOUNGE on US 31 just across the border i 
'I 
Mich iga n, serving yom 

~-~ 

-. -------, 
PAGE 7

-------.----­
Fr. Hanley 'Speaks on objectors 
by Ann Conway 
The Jlumanistie Studies Department of St. Mary's last night presented Father Dexter Hanley, s J. of c;corgctown University Law Centre speaking 
n .. T h c (' n sc ic n c io us 

0 0
Objector: Evolution or Revolution" as the third in its Anniversary series of lectures. llanlcy spoke on the morality
of war and the nature of government as seen from an individual viewpoint. He stated that the government cannot be supreme to the individual and that the morality of the state docs not necessarily conform to the morality of individuals in the 
state. 
In such a state, the individual should be permitted to follow his own conscience so long as it would result in no harm to the government. Once the govcrnnll'nl makes •• judgment and enters a war, the individual must of nct,cssity make his own moral judgment. "When the 
USED CARS 

See-ED MORAN (N.D. '69) at John's Auto Sales 
702 Mishawaka phone 255-9342 

Corner of Cedar & Mishawaka Ave's. 
ALSO: New Suzuki Bikes 




cnrne is 
~nning



Out... 
Each minute you spend in indecision is a minute wasted ... a minute that adds up to an hour or a day that has vanished forever. 
That minutt: may have been spent as Paulists do, counsel­ing a questioning youth at a secular university, working in ghettos, saving a potential "dropout" or promoting bet­ter understanding of the Church and all religions. 
How do your minutes stack up? 
If you have given some thought to becoming a priest, why not find out how the Paulists spend their time and send for an illustratcJ bro­chure and a summary of the Paulist effort for renewal in the Church. 
Write to: 
Vocation Director 
cpauJisth

'Pat ere 
Room 213 B 415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 

judgJIIl'nt  of  till'  governJlll'nt  
impinges  upon  lht•  r;·ligious  
interest  of  an  individual,"  

ll;mley slated, "then it should yield to that interest unless tht• government inlt·rest is grave" as in the case of national security. He praised those who renounce violcnct• provided this is done without injury to the rights of others.

Board 
recogmzcddmthe wor!,d." • 
BOOKSTORE and receive a
reverses c amara eCISIOn 
h I
c ance on t 1e Polaroid 
The d,e cisio n in Marty M_cN~.mara s . so-~alled "C.I.A. 
tnal, ~csultmg m a seven-day suspensiOn for McNamara, has been reversed by an appeals board. 

The Appeals Board decided last Friday that McNamara was not guilty of the charges brought forth as a result of his alleged participation in the C.I.A. demonstration. McNamara stated that "as far as 1 can tell this docs not establish a prccendcnt as far as 'lie-ins' go. It only applies to this individual case." 
McNamara's first trial had 

• 
. ..... 
•
. 

Finally Hanley spoke on four problems whkh remain to be solved in rl'lation to an 
individual's religious views conflicting with the vit·ws of his government. First, there is a need to define beliefs not directly connected with an organized religion or sect. Secondly, it is necessary that there be a place for objection to
M N 

a  ~pe~:Jflc  war, those whi~:h  arc  LAST  
unjust. Th1rd  people should be  
allowed to express dissent about  
the way in which a war is waged; ard fourth, it is necessary to  CHANCE  
introduce  the  right  to  protest  
illegally  fought  wars,  or  those  
where  all  paths  to  peace  have  
not  yet  been explored.  "There  
iss",  according  to  Hanley,  "a  to  PURCHASE  your  
place  . for. conscience  to  be  SCRIPTO PEN  at  the N.D.  

resulted_ in a suggest~<! s~ven-<lay suspcnsJon to bcgm February I~-Dean ?f ~tu~cnts Rev. James Riehle, CSC, dJd n<?t have to agree to the suspensiOn accord­ing to the defendant McNamara. As a result, McNamara was never 
suspended. McNamara said that he filed for an appeal with Riehle after his trial. He was informed that one of the members of the Appeals Board, Law Professor 
LeoJ.O'Bricn,wasoutoftown. Ric~l_c stated t~at he would be nol1f1cd of the tunc and place of his appeals hearing. 
Riehle told McNamara that 

the sentence would go into Camera Drawing March 10. effect right after the Appeal Board hearing, assuming that the appeal would be turned down. 
Watch for the winner in this
For Sale: Ted Kennedy 
Thursday's OBSERVER, March bumper stickers 13. 
2 for $1.00 

LOUIE'S
Mr. Quillin 51 1 Enderly Street 
the Gentlemen 
Brownsburg, Indiana 
& Ladies place 

• . 6jobs in 6 years is called job hopping? 
•

• ...... 
••• •• • . 
•.. 
• 
•

• • .. We have a practice called 
• "planned mobility," a kind of 
•

• • intramural job hopping. It means you don't go into a training • program. You go to work-at different growth jobs that broaden 
• 

Not necessarily. you professionally, benefit you • Not at Du Pont. personally, and help you find the •
•

specific field you want to grow in. Here's how it worked for •
•
Jim Davis, an M.E. from the 
University of Pittsburgh: 
• 
.. 
• • 

.... 
For Jim, it added up to six assignments in six years. This may be some kind of a record. But he didn't waste time. Every day of it was solid profit. 
• 
•. 
. .
. 

Your Du Pont recruiter is a guy a lot like Jim. Ask him about planned mobility. Ask him anything. The coupon 
will get you some background  
information before you  ~  
meet him.  
"'"''"0"  

College Relations An Equal Opportunity Employer ( M/F) 
• 

..... . . . • 
"My first assignment was installation of improved polymer transfer systems," says Jim. "Then some research. A patent was issued on my device to apply steam to a running threadline. Next I was a college recruiter. After that I worked on a five-year forecast of the company's engineering needs. Now I'm in a cost reduction group." 
• • I ••• • • ••
.. .... 
. . ..... ...... . 
. . .
..
.. 
• 

Du Pont Company • • •Room 11689 Wilmington, DE 19898 
.
•

I'd like your latest information on opportunities at Du Pont for graduates •
.

• with degrees in--------------•
• 
•
Name 

·-·--·---------------­•
University_ -·--~ 
•
•

Degree ________ Graduation Date ______ 
• 

• ••• AJJress ________ -------­
..

City _-·-·_State ____ 
.. 
Zip 
..
.. . .. . ..... 

--------·-------------------------------__j 
• 
PAGES 

Sengals set for March 17 

Sporting a 39-year champion­ship tradition, the University of Notre Dame's Bengal Bouts will have a new look this season. 
Instead of being staged in the University's old Fieldhouse, the scene of all Bengal battles since 1931 all bouts this year will be 

held 'in  the  new  Athletic  and  
Convocation Center.  
The  quarterfinal  fights  are  

scheduled for March 17, with the semi-finals March 19, and the championships March 21. 
Eighty boys, including eight returning champs, are vying to make Marcy 17, quarterfinal card. Defending their crowns are: Eduardo Ferrer, a 127-pound junior; Paul Partyka, a 14S-pound junior; Dave Pemberton, a !50-pound sopho­more; Jed Ervin, a ISS-pound junior; Chris Servant, a 167-pound junior; Tom Breen, a 177-pound senior; Hank Meyer, a 18S-pound sophomore; and Chuck Landolfi, a heavyweight 
senior. 

EAST REGIONAL 
St. Joseph's (17-10) 


THE OBSERVER FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 19691 
In New York 




ND enters IC4-A 
Jones' death halts hockey, fencing 
Nine runners and highjurnper  and  middle  distance  men  Doug  Wilson hopes each of his entries  
Ed  Brod  rick  will  represent  Breunlin (Ft. Wayne, Ind.), Rick  q ualifics for the Saturday finals,  
Notre  Dame  at  the  62-team  Wohlhuter  (St.  Charles,  Ill.),  the  Irish  will  have  to  contend  
IC4-A  track  meet  in  Madison  Mike  McCann (Hamilton, Ont.),  with  defending champion Villa­ 
Square  (;arden  Friday  and  Joe  Quigley (Brooklyn,  N.Y.),  nova  and  a strong Maryland ag­ 
Saturday.  and  Mark  Walsh  (Washington,  gregation.  
Herbert E. Jones  Running the Garden's 11-lap banked track will be sprinters Bill Hurd (Memphis, Tenn.), Ole Skarstein (MoRana, Norway), and Jack Samar (Gary, Ind.),  D.C.). Two-miler Joe Quaderer (Floral Park, N.Y.) rounds out the Irish delegation. While Notre Dame coach Alex  Villanova is expected to win its third IC4-A title in succession without earning a point in field events where Maryland is expect­ed to be strong. The Wildcats  
have  won  the meet 9 of the 12  

times they have entered. 
Hurd in the 60-yard dash andHerbert E. Jones, 66, Notre with the athletic department 41 He is survived by his widow, sophomore sensation WohlhuterDame's business manager of years and served two more years Margaret, four children ,and 20 in the 600-yard run arc Notreathletics, died of heart failure at as business manager of the entire grandchildren. He was born Nov. 

Dame's top seeded entries. 

I 2 :40 p.m. yesterday after University. 14, 1902, in Dixon, Ill. lingering three weeks in South Jones was named College -Because of Jones' death, the With a 6.1 clocking against Bend St. Joseph Hospital. Business Manager of the Year in athletic department has Miami last week, Hurd equated 
Jones was a student secretary 1967 and ND Monogram Club cancelled a pair of NO-Air his Notre Dame record and is to Knute Rockne during the Man of the Year in 1966. He was Force hockey matches this running well. He will be trying 1920's, then became assistant president of the Association of weekend and the to score back wins in tile Garden business manager and ticket sales Commerce and Industry and a N D-B u ff alo-Tennessee­having captured the 60 title at manager upon his graduation in member of the South Bend Milwaukee Tech fencing m(l.tch the Knights of Columbus Relays 1927. He had been associated Rotary Club board of directors. tomorrow. last month. 
NCAA basketball' 
Rhode Island, March 8 Duquesne (20-3) Maryland, March 13 Atlantic Coast Conference  fournamenf' • •pa1r1ngs  
Davidson (25-2)  
North Carolina State, March 8 Villanova (21-4) Princeton (19-6)  Maryland, March 13  Maryland, March 15  
North Carolina State."March 8 St. John's (22-4)  
MIDEAST REGIONAL  Louisville, March 20  
Murray State (22-5)  
Southern Illinois, March 8 Marquette (22-4)  Wisconsin, March 13 Kentucky (21-4)  
Miami (14-10)  Wisconsin, March 15  
Southern Illinois, March 8 Notre Dame (20-6)  Wisconsin, March 13 Purdue (19-4)  
MIDWEST REGIONAL  Louisville, March 22  
Texas A&M (17-7)  
Texas Christian, March 8 Trinity (19-4)  Kansas State, March 13 Missouri Valley Conference  
Dayton (20-6)  Kansas State, March 15  
Texas Christian, March 8 Colorado State (15-6)  Kansas State, March 13 Big Eight Conference  
WEST REGIONAL  Louisville, March 20  
Brigham Young (16-11)  
New Mexico State, March 8 New Mexico State (23-3) Weber State (23-2)  UCLA, March 13 UCLA (24-0) Santa Clara (23-1) UCLA, March 13  UCLA, March 15  
New Mexico State, March 8 Seattle (19-7)  




