'• 

VOL. Ill, NO. 127 Serving the Notre Dame and Sa{nt Mary's College ('Oinmunity FRIDAY, MAY 2, 1969 
At dedication ceremonies 

McNamara demands population restriction 
Following the Mass, the dent of the Executive Club, during the academic convocation To emphasize the desperation
by Mike Mooney 

Center was blessed by Theodore John T. Ryan, Jr., chairman of after the luncheon. Rev. John E. of the problem of overpopu­
A day of ceremony marked M. llesburgh, CSC, President of the Advisory Council of the Walsh, CSC, in delivering the lation, McNamara cited the stag­the dedication of the hew the University. Tours of the College of Business Adminis-citations for the degree, noted gering facts of the "gap between llayes-llealy Center for business newly-completed building were tration, Dean Thomas T. the business and managerial the rich and poor" of the world. education yesterday. The list of conducted after the blessing. Murphy of the College of Bus-achievements of Romona "Two-thirds of mankind ... tlarticipating dignitaries was led A luncheon for 400 guests iness Administration and Rev-Hayes-Healy of Chicago, 11-remain entrapped in a cruel web by former S~cretary of Defense was served in the Monogram erend Theodore Hesburgh each linois, and Robert L. Hamilton of circumstances that severely Robert S. McNamara. 1hc Room of the Athletic and Con-delivered short remarks during of Racine, Wisconsin He limits their right to the neces­currert President of the World vocation Center following the the luncheon. praised McNamara for his con-sities of life." stated McNamara. Bank received an honorary Doc­blessing and tours of the new Three honorary Doctor of tributions to the country and to "The misery of the underdev­tor of Laws degree at the dcd i­center. Jerome J. Claeys, prcsi-Laws degrees were conferred the world. . eloped world is today broadened 
cation's afternoon academic ts?· ,.._.. tn his convocation addres~ 
w~~-~ ~ 

convocation and delivered the 
McNamara, now president of the ~:on vocation's address. World Bank for Reconstruction 
Thr: only protest demonstra­and Development, called on his tion Jf the day was a one-man audience to view the problem of displuy that greeted the depart­excessive population with the ing congregation of the day's sense of urgency it deserves. l'irst event. ten a.m. Mass at "To put it simply," said the 
Sacred Heart Church. Senior former Defense Secretary, "the 
Steve Moriarty, dressed in a greatest single obstacle to the bloody T-shirt, army helmet and economic and social advance­a mass of gauze, and carrying a ment of the majority of the sing reading "War is good busi­peoples in the underdeveloped ness," confronted the visitors as world is rampant population they left the church. growth." 
McNamara insisted that the major nations of the world must 
face the problem of the ex­ploding world population now, and not pretend that "the prob­
Fourteen pickup SLC petitions; 
campaign will begin May 4 

lem will somehow disappear." "What may disappear is the Fourteen hopeful candidates Campaigning for the six rep­last year's representatives to pick opportunity to find a solution picked up Student Life Council resentative positions will begin up a petition last night. How­
that is rational and humane," 
growth  that  is  totally  unprece­ 
dented  in  hist ory,"  he conclu­ 
ded.  


nomination petitions last night. at noon on May 4 and will end ever, Chris Wolfe, who repre­warned the president of the McNamara saw overpopula­Candidates have until II a.m., on May 8 at 2 a.m. The election sented the South quad this year, World Bank. tion leading to a multitude of May 4 to submit their petitions will he held on May 8. is expected to submit a petition "If we wait too long, that mankind's problems. The worst signed hy 100 students. Junior Ron Mastriana on the to represent that area again next option will be lost." effects seem to affect children, South quad was the only one of term. who are the hardest hit by the
1\lost of the petitions taken 
diseases caused by poverty, the
last night were picked up by 
inadequacy of an already over­


SMC elections to be held Monday
candidates on the south quad. 
burdened educational system,
Those candidates arc: juniors­
and who inherit a tradition of

Pete Neeson, Rich Meckel. Kevin by Ann Conway dent Assembly will be based on Satillo, and Jane Sheehy. Off­
one representative per hundred poverty and pass it along in their
Smith, Bob Rigney, Larry Lan­campus candidates are Susan dry, Pete Kelly and Ron Mas­St. Mary's will hold elections residents in each hall. There will Bury, Victoria Derda, Margaret own adulthood to their own children.
triana; sophomores Mike Shaug­Monday to cho,.,·;~ hall presi­be three students elected from Kromkowski, and Diane hnessy and Steve Ahern. dents and hall resprescntativcs McCandless, three from Holy Snellgrove. The predictions of mass over­for the newly formed St'udent Cross, three from LeMans (with Those elected to the Student crowding will not come true, in 
Three representatives will be 
McNamara's opinion, because

Assembly. the option of electing two other Assembly, which is to replace
cleated from the south quad. 

The only contested hall presi­representatives at a future date), the Student Legislature, will "events will not permit them to 
0 nly ihrec hopefuls have come to pass."
dency is in McCandless where two from Regina, and one day have the power to make recom­
arisen on the north quad so far, He listed three possibilities
Ruthie Lyons, and Peggy student. The candidates from mendations regarding student junior Ted Jones and sopho­Murphy are running. The other McCandless are Sarah Belanger, opinion in both academic and that might drastically limit the mores Guy DeSapio and Rich 
three halls have only one cancli­Carol Cusik, Dianne Dingleberry, nonacademic areas. population: mass starvation, lluntcr. date: LeMans, Mary Minella; Sandy Griffin, and Anne In addition to those elected, political chaos or intelligent pop­The north qw1d must elect Holy Cross, Mary Bernath; a:ld O'Brien. there will be three standing rep­ulation planning. two representatives. Regina, Diane Derfler. LeMans residents in the race resentatives chosen at large. The only acceptable choice of Off-campus has two conten­Those elected hall president are Sue Chase, Pattie McCusker, Each candidate for hall presi­the alternatives was, in the opin­ders at this time, juniors Pat will coordinate all hall ;,ctivitics Debbie Motto, and Anne dent and the Student Assembly ion of the former Defense Sec­tlarholla and Ed Roicklc. and will work in coltjunction Steinman. Running from Holy must take· part in an Open retary, "a humane and rational with the hall members of the Cross are Susan Dorn, Mary Jo Forum scheduled for May 5 in reduction of the birth rate."
Off-campus will clect one rep­

Student Assembly on passage of Forman, Velma Lemanski, the hall from which they hope The burden of reducing the
resentative to the SLC. 

hall legislation. They will also Marilyn Mohrman, and Ronnie to be elected. Students will vote population falls mainly to the 
Students may still pick up 

become members of the Corn~ Rogers. after the forum in the halls in most powerful and rich coun­
petitions in the Student Govern­
(continued on p. 4)

mittee on Residence Life Board. Cand1dates from Regina are which they plan to live next 
ment office. 

Hall representation in the Stu-Louise McGrath, Mary Ellen year. 

and deepcnea by a population 


1n sightNo open Board meeting • 
members Edmund Stephan, submitted a statement of
by Cliff Wintrodc 
Philip Faccenda, Paul Hellmuth, consideration to Father 

The waning hopes for an open and Father 1-lesburgh where Hesburgh, Mr. Edmund Stephan, board meeting this morning were copies of McKenna's statement Chairman of the Board and the dealt a death blow last night hy were distributed hy Faceenda other trustee members asking for Phil McKenna after talking with and read hy all the members. the purpose of having "their Father llesburgh: "The chances However, McKenna reported views known by the Board and 
are like nil." that he received a "direct prom­at the same time to know what The rationale for the decision ise" from Hcsburgh for a sum­the Foard's view is." was expressed to McKenna :1s a mer meeting between student It was made clear that the fear of Father Hcshurgh's that leaders and members of the students were in no way an open meeting would only education and student affairs attempting to usurp the Board's serve to alienate some of the committee of the Board. "policy making authority", but 11ore conservative board McKenna contended that this v.crc only desiring an "increased members from the students and action was important since most student involvement in decision secondly an open meeting was m .. ~ing."
of the work of the Board is done 
.till •
in committees and that he had McKenna added that at theimpossible because of the nature 

The flrst annual Potawatomi Park love-in was celebrated
hopes that "this committee will committee meetings, it will be meet regularly with students." his suggestion that "part of the y~sterday. Flower children, high school students and 20of the things being submitted. 
The rationale originated from an executive hoard meeting of Earlier, McKenna had (continued on p. 2) lovihg cops joined in the festivities. 

FRIDAY, MAY 2, 1969
THE O&rEIWER.
PAGE 2 
• STEWART 
······· N 0 Tl CE ·····** 



THE 'WORLD TODAY
SANDWICH 
The number for the Student 

Union Social Commission, as
SERVICE 
Available in every hall on campus 
Stewart Sandwich 
Service 925 Blaine 232-2625 
~-----------------------­
listed in the Student Directory is incorrect. The number to call 

283-7489...................... Please DO NOT CALL 3949·············· 
Tower Hills, Sand Dunes
Alumni Hall 
DUNES TRIP 
cost $2.50 Sunday, May 4 
Buses leave circle at 1 : 00 
leave from Dunes at 6:00pm 
RIVER PARK USED CARS 

Militant students beat May Day retreat 
(UPI) -Militant students beat May Day retreats yesterday from 
buildings they had occupied on the Columbia <:nr:l Stanford 
University campuses. 

Members of the radical Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) 
abandoned two buildings on the Columbia campus in New York City 
after a state Supreme Court justice signed a warrant fe>r their arrest. 
Some I00 antiwar protesters gave up a Stanford administration 
building on the campus near Palo Alto, Calif., when police were 
~.:ailed to quell a student demonstration for the first time in the 
school's 78 year history. 

Urges US withdrawal from v_~f!_f_nam 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Sen. George D. Aiken of Vermont, the 
xnior Senate Republican, urged President Nixon yesterday to begin 
im,nediately an orderly withdrawal of American troops frcm 
~ctnam. He said the United States had achieved its goals in South 
"ietnam. 

Aiken's floor speech followed official State Department confir­
mation that eventual, unilateral U.S. troop withdrawals are part of 
the peace plan that the Nixon administration has developed. 
Undersecretary of State Elliot L. Richardson, in a television 
interview Tuesd;.y night, linked such withdrawals to the buildup of 
South Vietnamese forces to the point they can assume a greater 
share of the fighting. 

Reports peace talks' progress toThieu 
PARIS (UPI) -Chief South Vietnamese negotiator Pham Dang Lam returned to Saigon yesterday to report to President Nguyen Van Thieu. The trip spurred hopes that a breakthrough in the deadlocked Vietnam peace conference was imminent. 
Lam flew to Saigon only 24 hours after the leader of the Viet Cong's National Liberation Front delegation announ2ed the NLF was "ready to engage in discussions with the other parties to make the conference move forward." 
Previously the Viet Cong had pressed for bilate• :II negotiations between the front and the United States and virtually ignored the oresence of the South Vietnamese delegation at the conference. 

Open Board looks dim 
(continued from p. 1) between "some of the Board 
members and some of the student 
meetings be open to all students leaders" which Faccenda is ar­
while part of the meetings be ranging. 
open to specific student leaders McKenna expressed high op­
to discuss specific issues." timism that the committee meet­
McKenna stated that he made ings will be held on a frequent 
it "extremely clear" that a "POS­basis. He said both Father Hes­
sibility existed of student action burgh and Stephan, chairman of 
in response to no. open Board the education and student affairs 
meeting. He further stated that committee, back his idea but felt 
Father Hesburgh felt that any in McKenna's words: "Real good 
action of this type would serve could not come from an open 
to alienate the vast majority of board meeting but from a com­
the Board members and not just mittee meeting with students 
those opposed to open meetings. which would serve both better." 
::. 

\fQ_q _YOU~ 
FORMAL WEAR SEE US! 

at SHERMAN'S 
Latest styles! 
Sherman's Tuxedo Rental 702 West Indiana Avenue South Bend, Indiana Phone 287-3347 
*$11.00 for a complete 
RESERVED SEAT TICKETS NOW AT BOX OFFICE OR BY MAIL
White Tux outfit 
Times: Mon-Fri. 5:30, 8:30 
Sat-Sun. 1:30, 5:15, 8:30 

STUDENT UNION CALENDAR 
FUR THE WEEK OF MAY 2 TO MAY 8 
FRIDAY, MAY 2 
8:30PM 
Hillside Barn Party. FREE Refreshments. Music by the "Soul Circuit." $5.00/$4.50. Buses leave NO at 7:30, 7:45, 8:30, 8:45; leave SMC 15 minutes later. 
8:30PM "Camelot" in O'Laughlin Auditorium, SMC. Students $2.00. Others $2.50. 
SATURDAY, MAY 3 
2:00PM Lacrosse: NO vs. Ohio State 2:00PM & Cinema '69: "Les Diaboliques" Washington Hall. 8:00PM Public Invited. $1.00 8:30PM "Camelot" in O'Laughlin Auditorium, SMC. 
SUNDAY, MAY 4 
11:00 AM Alumni Hall sponsors Dunes Trip. Entertain­ment by "Stardusters" $2.50 Buses leave 11:00 and 1:00. Return at 6:00 and 8:00. 
2:00PM & Cinema '69: "Les Diaboliques" in Washington 
8:00PM Hall. Public Invited. $1.00. 2:30PM "Camelot" in O'Laughlin Auditorium, SMC. 8:00PM Collegiate Jazz Festival, "Bill Hurd Quintet," 
Library Auditorium, $.75. 
MONDAY, MAY 5 
2:30PM Tennis: NO vs. Western Michigan. 7:30PM & Cinema '69: "Rashoman" in Washington Hall. 9:00PM Public Invited. $1.00 
TUESDAY, MAY 6 
2:00PM ·Baseball: ND vs. Hillsdale College. 
7:30 & Cinema '69: "The Bailiff" in Washington Hall. 9:30PM Public Invited. $1.00. 
THURSDAY, MAY 7 
7:30 & Cinema '69: "Burmese Harp" in Washington 
9:30 Hall. Public Invited. $1.00. 
Note: All information for the Student Union Calen­dar must be in the office no later than Wednesday at 3:00PM the week that it is to appear in the OESER VER. 
A SERVICE OF THE STUDENT UNION 
see 
Ed Moran (ND'69) 
at John's Auto Sales 
702 Mishawaka 
Phone: 255-9342 
Corner of Cedar & 
Mishawaka Ave's. 

LSO: New Suzuki Bikes 
Driving Range 
Par 3 Golf Course 

Minjature Golf Course 
OPEN -DAY & NIGHT (weather permitting) 
PLAYLAND 


GOLF CENTER 
1700 Lincoln Way East 
Sout\1 Bend, Ind. 
Phone 288-0033 

Times: Fistful of$ 3:35, 7:35 for few$ 1:15,5:15,9:15 
Answering the question of whether or not he will press for 
As to the question of publish­ing the minutes of the meetings, McKenna reported that Fac­



GliNI IASIWODD 

open Board meetings at the com­
iSBAGK 

mittee meeting this summer, chance to open up the meetings 
cenda felt that there was a better 
McKenna stated, "I would rather than to have the minutes pub­have frequent committee meet­lished. ings than an open board meet­McKenna said that he would ing." He envisioned that the meet with Faccenda before the question could come up at meeting begins to find out the future committee meetings but details of an informal meeting he did not consider open Board after the re~ular Board meeting meetings the "ultimate goal. 




Order Your Mother's Day Flowers (May II) at: 
, 



WYGANTS 
Headquarters for All Types of 
Floral Arrangements 
phone 232-3354 327 LWW FTD Florist please order early 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except
TECHNICOLOR" Umtod Artists 

vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.



mmng • 
~--------------------------------~------------~-­

FRIDAY, MAY 2, 1969 TilE OBS.ERIII& PAGE 3 
Nun indicts Dow: public m_ad~'insensitive' 
by Chuck Jackson control its corporatiOn m foreign 
countries. Dow also cooperated 
A nun who faces federal im­with the chemical company sup­prisonment for her aided assault plying the gas which killed Jews on a Dow Chemical office last during World War Two, she said. March 22, spoke to several per­
She went on to accuse not sons last night in the Law Audi­only Dow but also many othertorium. 
large corporations of makingSister Joanne Malone, with Americans "insensitive" to thethe aid of eight others recently injustices the corporations areentered the Chemical company's 
promoting through manufac­
Washington headquarters and turing and sales policies. 
smashed windows, poured blood Through corporations, she
on files and then threw the files out the wondows. The files con­
said, "we maintain the same t a incd information substanti­
type of slavery today in Latin ating Dow's large Vietnam in­
A me rica as we do in our ghettos. volvement as well as its policies It is a program of death and of foreign exploitation. 
exploitation." The pretty, dark-haired nun She cited the United Fruit from the Order of the Sisters of Company's exploitation of bana­Lorrctto, is currently a teacher nas in Guatemala as an example. at a Catholic girl's school in St. She also said that the Roman 
Louis. She is an active counselor Catholic Church is one of the for draft resista nee and is editor largest corporations in the of the St. Louis Free Press. world, having large holdings in 
Sister Malone put forth indict­South A mcrica. These holdings ments against Dow Chemical arc mostly real estate and she Company. In addition to being said that the church is governing 
the chief manufacturer of na­her South American property palm and nerve gas, she said the with the methods of feudalism company strives to completely and wealthy land owners. 
BLATZ BREWING COMPANY. MilWAUKEE PEORIA HEIGHTS,l.OS ANGELES 


For Reservations and Information Contact 
DAN O'NEILL YOUR American Airlines Campus Rep 334Lyons Hall or Call 283-7953 
She  posed  several  questions.  children?  seems a step for peace.  
about the power and control of  About  the  war,  which is the  "I  say  'no'  to  wherever it is  
corporations. "I wonder to what  focal  point of  her actions,  she  that I find dehumanizing forces.  
extent  Notre  Dame  and  other  said,  "we  have  dropped  more  .. I say 'yes' to positive values I  
universities  are  controlled  by  bombs on  Vietnam than all the  see in society. 'Yes' to education  
Corporations  ... Do you go to  previous wars combined-and for  and  to  the fact that people can  
school at  the price of napalmed  what  purpose?  ... This hardly  change."  

Gossett. keynotes L.aw Day dinner 
William T. Gossett, president by the Notre Dame Law School of the American Bar and the St. Joseph County Bar 
Association, was the prinicpal Association, and about 175 speaker at a Law Day U.S.A. persons, including all the Law 
dinner at 7 p.m. Thursday, at School's third year students the Morris Inn. attended. Gossett noted the widespread
"We live in \In age comparable evidence of the desire by manyto the era 'of which Charles 
persons to share in the
Dickens wrote-the French responsibilities of government.
revolution ·which was both ''We see paraisworthy
perilous and full of promise," evidence of this (participation)Pres. Gossett declared. 
everywhere: in the anxious questGossett said, "We, too, live in of the student to have a voice in 
the worst of times and in the decisions affecting their high
best of times. And this 
mission to serve humanity; in generation too lives under the long ignored citizens assertingspell of a world full of hope, full their right to have a share in the 
of promise and full if 
elections and civic actions that 
inevitability: the word 
can condition their lives and 
'Participation.' " 
aspirations." The dinner was cosponsored "In all of this, no one who has 
ARE YOU GETTING TIRED OF THE 
NOTRE DAME 
ATMOSPHERE ?• 
THE END IS NOT VERY FAR AWAY •r 
Ask About Our 
Group Rates 
and Charters 
any rea·! faith in self­-government can fipd anything but good. It rcprese~ts not only a society on the move but a society moving in the right direction: towards more self-determinism and more self-fulfillment," he said. 
Gossett said, "The young people of the land arc more deeply and genuinely involved, not only in their own efforts, but in society as a whole. Challenged by unprecedented quantitiaive demands, education has not only survived the challenge but is getting better qualitatively than ever before; and an increasingly high proportion of our youth, from all segments of our society arc availing themselves of it." 
c!Jrfanyhave moved~· 
but the ~ulists 
Stay-On... 
The Paulists arrived on the West Side of New York City in 1858. In 1895 they moved into San Francisco's China­town and into the fringes of Chicago's Loop in 1904. They're still there. Times change. Neighborhoods change. Sometimes they go up. Sometimes they go down ­but through it all the Paulist stays. As long as there arc people to be served the l'aulist will be there. 
The Paulist may be in the same old place but he con­stantly docs new things. That's one of the characteristics of the Paulist order: •Using their own individual tak:nts in new ways to meet the needs of a fast-changing world in the col­leges ... in communications ... in the ghettos. 
If you have given some thought to becoming a Priest, write for an illustrated brochure and a copy of our recent Renewal Chapter Guidelines. Write to: 
Vocation Director 
cpauJisth
Pat etg 
Room 213 c 415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 



FRIDAY, MAY 2,1969
THE OBSERVER
PAGE 4 


111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
Michiana's Sports Car Capitol 

McNamara gets degree
GO HOLL YVVOOD! MAINTAIN YOUR COOL 

Tom Ehrbar
(continued from p. 1)Jaguar George is ofj'ering a free 
search facilities of funds in this
tries in the world. McNamara field," he added.
rair of sunglasses and an A SCOT 

called on "the developed na­A man and his women
with eve~v srorty car (what 

McNamara also saw the need
tions" to offer every aid they
every srorty driver should have); 

for improved techniques in 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
can to those countries "which
he'll even buy your first 1, 000 

demography the statistical
have already established family It was after my first date with a St. Mary's girl. The food had been
miles of gas. You can't beat a 

study of human population-and
planning programs." exquisite, the conversation delightful, the mood enchanting. As the
deal/ike that with a big stick' 

in the "socio-cultural aspects" of
He emphasized the need for cab emptied us (and my wallet) on the doorsteps of Holy Cross, weThi~ we•~k 's poverty program family planning. 
research in reproductive biology. floated in, drinking each other in languorously, as we drifted sp ecia1: '6 3 St udcbakcr 
"Technologically advanced "Programs are beginning to through the er!'tanglements of hips and elbows.
Hawk-great shape...$495* countries can make one of their show progress in limited areas," Before allowing the beauty of this SMC phantom to slip from my

see Jaguar George at 

greatest contributions by initia­said McNamara. grasp, I squeezed her passionately for what seemed a moment in
PEPPER'S IVOTORS 

"But no reduction in birth
ting a new order of intensity in eternity. Then 1 pulled my head back and whispered with all the 3105 W. Sample St. 
rates has yet been achieved any­
research in reproductive biolo­strength I could muster from my trembling lips "Wh ... When can 1 see South Bend, Ind. 
where in the underdeveloped World Bank. areas which can significantly And she whispered back with a honied voice only an angel could gy," said the President of the you again?" 
289-7788 

"They have starved their re-affect overall world population rival, "Let me see now," and began fumbling through an oversized totals." date-book, fully indexed and footnoted, "just when can I fit you He concluded by saying that in?" I watched, as though frozen in a death-like trance, as she picked 
•Faculty supject to usual s11aft JOb!! 

if something is not done now to through the pages, panicked and perplexed, probing for a position begin to relieve the problem of that Peter Piper or some other pidlers had not picked (she was really overcrowding, we have commit­in a pickle). Speechless, I clumsily turned away, my tongue tied to 
ted a crime. 
JAMES 

my teeth, and my heart lost to love.
BROWN 

"But it will be those who 
In a final gesture, I suppose bordering near pity, my dream girl come after us who will pay the 
kissed her hand and pretended to flip the magic over toward my undeserved . . . and the un­cheek. I guess it was her sophisticated manner of telling one to kiss 
speakable ... penalties." off. Anyway, I ducked, and the miss's kiss missed. So I left Holy Cross, or rather, Holy Cro~s left me. 
SHOW 

With head bowed I trudged down the lonely road under a dark
The Nations No. 1 Entertainer 

STARTS TONIGHT 
and brooding sky, lured on by the warmth that is Notre Dame. Sleep evaded me that night.
at AVON ART
IN PERSON 

And a sense of restlessness stirrerl within me, taunting and flirting about unconsciously, for days on end, and no end of daze. I tried phoning my cherished one, but only encountered a buzzzzz-huzzzzz
JAMES 
BROWN 
gnawing away at my ear. I tried writing a letter, but my meek thoughts drew no response. 1 had nowhere to turn. Then a friend told me of "Tell it to Tommy" and I began to 
discern a light glimmering at the end of a long tunnel. Tommy, epitome of mystery and aloofness and virility, is a personal advice 
With Show for 

columnist of the most dubious sort. Through his confidential letters Tommy had already molded a ate: May lOth, '69 
Entire Family 

new outlook out of my gelatin-like mind. I remember reading some lace: Morris Civic 
of his most brilliant passages late in the evenings by the light of my radiator, while others hissed. and how my face and heart shimmered 
T. k t p . Auditorium 

with a bright glow. And how my pajamas once ignited in flames. "You have to remember, girls aren't people, they're just play­
IC e nces: 
1st Show: balcony $3.50 

things, diversions, amusements. It's kind of nice to have them main floor $4.00 
tousling your hair, or clawing all over you, or buying you stuff-but 2nd Show balcony $4.00 
we can do without it. Just always remember who's boss," Tommy would say, working himself up to almost fits of eloquence and
main floor $5 .00 

precision of expression. I would hang on every word (indeed, many
On Sale at: Auditorium Box 

times I have almost been hung because of some of those words).
Office 

Finally, the piece-de-resistance, I was going to observe Tommy,
Show Time: 7 & 10 P.M. 

the original prime mover, in action. I recall his poise over the phone, NOW! ALSO: 
as I sat in entranced rapture, "Listen baby, this is Tommy, try not to
GRANADA 

swoon or anything, listen , how would you like the treat of your
at 1:15, 4:40 
Peter Sellers in The "Party"
THEATER SO. BEND "SWIMMER" and 8:05 crummy little life this weekend. Well, I'll be over between noon and midnight. .. click." One thing you have to admit about Tommy, he
When)'OU talk about 


had charm.
We Call it
'The Swimmer'will you 

Then on the date itself, Tommy neatly attired in jeans and a matching jacket, myself sculking along in the bushes observing him
talk about yourself? 

<'('Livability'' 
every step of the way. And what an evening it was, this girl opening doors for him, paying his way into the movies, treating him to a 
COLUMBIA PICTURES and 

little snack. 1 was really eating it up. And so was Tommy, judging by 

HORIZON PICTURES Present 

Our idea is to serve you with lunches and dinners you can live with day after day. Fine steaks
Burt 

properly broiled and at prices you can live with, too. And with
Lancaster 

pleasant surroundings, comfort­able booths and chairs, a little
• 
background music and a smile
. The 

from the folks who serve you. And a choice of dinners to match
SWIDlnter 

your taste: 
TECHNICOLOR' ~ ~ 
~ed For M1ture Audiences I 

at 2:50, 1. Sirloin .................. $1.59 
6:15, 9:40

PLUS! 2.RibEye ................ 1.19 
3. Chopped Sirloin ... .99 
5. 
N.Y. Strip ............. 1.89 

6. 
Ham Steak............ 1.19


Duffy 
8. Fish Fillet............. .99 
Starring 

JAMES COBURN ·JAMES MASON 

STEAK HOUSE 
1516N.lronwood Just N. ofEdison 
I I • 
the size of her bill. 

At last, the crucial goodbye inside Holy Cross lobby. I peeked in through the windows, intently holding my breath. Tommy threw some of his greatest lines at her, straight from the heart: "You're not really half-bad sister, for an SMC girl. Like so many of· these dumb dames are always whistling at me, swarming around and eyeing my profile. It bores me." Yes sir, Tommy told it to her all right. And the amazing thing is Tommy got away with it, no kiss offs, but plenty of kisses. 
I. for one, have learned my Jesson. An SMC girl may not be much, when you think a bout it, but, as the saying goes, she'll do in a pinch. 
8£ A SWINGER ! 
and own your own Polaroid • 
It's easy, just pick up your own 
SCRIPTO Pen at the BOOKSTORE 
and receive a lucky number 
from the cashier. 
The Next Drawing Will Be Held May 9 
J 


