-
..... 
/· 
SLC passes 0-C housing resolution 
by Phil Bosco grievance against some authority 
The Student Life Council met felt to be abusive; it is an appeal yesterday afternoon at 3:00 in to a public sense of equity, with the Center for Continuing Edu­the hope that publicity will cation to discuss off campus cause embarrassment sufficient housing and a report from the to bring redress." 

Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
Demonstration Committee that When a demonstration 
was set up last December. becomes violent, however, "...it 
Richard Rossie, in his last has changed entirely; it is no 
SLC meeting as Student Body longer a demonstration." 
President, introduced the follow­Describing the situation that 
ing resolution on off campus exists at Notre Dame, the report 

Senate installs McKenna
housing: says: "Students authorized to live "If Notre Dame is really 'a by Marty Graham engage in activity contributing priated funds shall be used for 
off campus shall be permitted to place where all the great ques-Phil McKenna and Fred Ded­to 'a substantial disruption of the benefit of 'any applicant'
live in housing of their own tions are asked,' it is bound to rick were installed as the new the administration of the insti­convicted by any court of gen­
choosing. Students under 21 be an independent and disputa-Student Body President and tution .. .' In the enforcement eral jurisdiction of a crime invol­
shall be required to have paren­tious place, often alarming to Vice-President at last night's 
ving the use of force, trespass or 
tal permission to live in appart­those who support it, since the Student Senate meeting. the seizure of property under mcnts or other housing which wealth that subsidizes universi-The Senate also approved a the control of an institution of 
requires the signing of a lease or tics is often held by persons and proposal by outgoing Student higher education. Unlike 504, it other legal documents. The Uni­enterprises representing conscr-Body President Richard Rossie makes no provision for notice 
versity shall be in no way vative interests. Demonstrations that Notre Dame's Student gov­and a hearing."responsible for the financial can and do place the administr-ernmcnt back the National The major ground for the suit 
agreement entered into between 
ation between two distrustfull Student Association's suit is that "the statutes constitute a a Notre Dame student and a groups. Though it is probably against various pieces of federal violation of the right of free resident of South Bend. This tempted at times to call down a legislation which cut off finan­speech, freedom of conscience,recommendation should take plague on both their houses, the cia! aid to demonstrators. and freedom of assembly, as effect immediately." must to a letter to
administration try In addressed guaranteed by the First Amend­
It was made clear that the explain and advocate the inter-Rossie, a prominent Washington ment of the Constitution." opening phrase of the resolution, ests of both groups to each law firm, representing the NSA, In his farewell address to the"Students authorized to live off other. In so doing, it cannot stated that the major provisions Student Senate, Rossie thanked campus ..." meant just that. It afford any overly sensitive and which the NSA attempts to chal­
everyone for the support whichapplies only to those students protcctivc concern for the Notre lcnge. These proVISIOns are was given to him over the pastwho either because of their class Dame 'image'. We must not be section 504 of the Higher Educa­year. He also stated that the status or academic standing, arc tcmptcd to speak out of both tion Amendments Act of 1968 student government is beginningrequired by the University to sides of our mouth, presenting and section 411 of the Depart­to gain a stronger voice in the
Ex-SBP Rossie

live off campus or have their the University on the one hand mcnt of Labor and Health, decisions concerning campusapproval to do so. as a bold and venturesome place Education and Welfare Appro­of this statute, the institution 
policy, but a still stronger voiceRossie's resolution was then in which to search for the truth, priations act of 1969. must afford the student or 
is needed.voted upon and passed unani­and on the other as a boy's The letter states, "Section employee notice and opportu­After taking office, McKenna m~usly by the Council. finishing school." 504 would have colleges with-nity for a hearing. stated that the "stress of next
An ad hoc committee was set Students complain that draw federal aid from any of "Section 411 provides that no year's senate will be on the work up by the SLC to meet today to administrators arc " ..deceptive-their students or employees who part of the government appro-of senate committees."discuss the Dean of Student's ly agreeable to their propos­
directive. The members of the als ... " and that major reforms in Th $ dS 
committee are SBP Phil student affairs have been "grudg­
0 u an bid farewell to Ike 
McKenna (who officially re­ing. last-minute concessions places today), Rev. Ernest before the threat of adverse pub­WASHINGTON (UPI)-Four abreast, they waited an pccts, placing a wreath at the Bartell, C.S.C., and Dean of Stu­licity." Mourners by the thousands, in­average of 45 minutes to enter casket. Later Italian Prime Mini­dents Rev. JAMES Riehle, The report states that demon­cluding heads of state and high the rotunda where the flag ster Mariano Rumor, Australian 
C.S.C. McKenna said last night strators " ... have too often acted school students from Iowa to draped coffin lay on the black Prime Minister John Gorton and that he will be pressing at to­as if they alone had any moral Florida, passed by the bier of catafalque which once cradled Canadian Prime Minister Pierre day's meeting for a new directive integrity. Others in the Univer­Dwight D. Eisenhower yesterday the body of Abraham Lincoln. Elliott Trudeau made ceremonial that will require only freshmen sity understandably resent the as the dead former President lay Middle aged Gl's who had mourning appearances. to live on campus. arrogance implicit in this right­in state in the capitol rotunda. served under Eisenhower's com­Former President Johnson re­
A report from the Demonstra­eousness." Leaders of the world wen mand in World War II were turned to Washington from tion Committee was submitted The Student Life Council will ushered in and out without dif­repre~ted. At one point, a Texas for the first time since to and read by the Council. It continue discussion of the report ficulty to pay their respects. The blind man was led by an escort Nixon was inaugurated Jan. 20. was submitted by Rev. James at their next meeting on Mon­rank and file of the people stood describing the scene. Through By coincidence, it was one year B urtchaell, C. S.C. day, April 14, at which time patiently in line despite chilling the hours, hundreds: of high to the day since he startled the 
The report described demon­resolutions will probably be temperatures to bid farewell to school students in town for the nation by announcing he would ·trations as " ... a public show of drafted. "Ike." Easter period tours passed by in not seek re-election. He and Mrs. groups. Johnson paid a condolence call No official count was kept on Mrs. Eisenhower that lasted
McKenna makes two new posts 
but by noon EST, newsmen esti­half an hour at midday. by Chuck Jackson mated that as many as 40,000 The only other surviving 
A nnounccments made last The new Research and last night by the two new had filed through the rotunda. former President, Harry S. night by incoming SBP and Development post to be student government heads Interspersed in the steady pro­Truman, had his wife Bess tele­SBVP Phil McKenna and Fred occupied by John Zimmerman is included the enlistment of the cession of people were the visits phone Mrs. Eisenhower from Dedrick included appointments specifically designed for the Afro-American Society, the ISO, of the dignitaries that began their vacation home at Key for student government offices main tainance of long term and the Hall President's council Sunday evening when French West, Fla., to express his regrets as well as the establishment of research on university topics, in an advisory capacity to the President Charles DeGaullc sa­he could not attend the funeral. new posts. including co-education and the new student government. luted his World War II comrade The 84 year old Truman, a 
Slated to be the three most University Senate. Representatives from each in arms. military spokesman reported, important posts in the new As Ombudsman, Jim Smith organization arc chosen from Shortly before noon, South sent word he was "saddened by student administration arc those will act as a "trouble shooter" within that organization. Vict namcse Vice President the fact they could not come to of Executive Coordinator, for students receiving complaints Student Government Nguyen Cao Ky paid his res-Washington." Research and Development, and and at the same time acting on positions remaining to be filled Ombudsman. Students these as much as possible. include that of academic Affairs appointed to these offices arc, Black student Dave Krashna, and NSA Commissioners. The respectively, Larry Landry, John newly appointed as Human two, according to Dedrick, will Zimmerman, and Jim Smith. Affairs Commissioner, was hopefully be filled before Easter. Other appointments include chosen for his hard work in the John Coughlin as Treasurer, recent NSA Conference on Ike's brother sick Dave Krashna as Human Affairs White Racism and because he is Commissioner, Judicial "hard-working and very W ASIIINGTON, (UPI) Mil­Coordinator, Gary Mcinerney, competent." ton Eisenhower, brother of the and to the position of Public SBVP Fred Dedrick revealed late President, was admitted to Relations, Ed Davey. the reason for choosing Gary Walter Reed Army Medical Cent­
Larry Landry, filling the post Mcinerney for Judicial er yesterday "for observation." of Executive Coordinator will Coordinator because he "has a A hospital spokesman was un­act to enforce the decisions good grasp oft he legal system at able to give details of Eisen­made by the SBP and SBVP. Notre Dame." hower's ailment, but the mana­According to Dedrkk, Landry New "PR" man Ed Davey was ger's office at the Washington was selected for the position described as an "energetic, Hilton Hotel said the 69 year old because "of his comprehensive hard-working person, who'll do a president emeritus of Johns knowledge of student more than adequate job as Hopkins University complained government and because he Public Relations man." of not feeling well and asked to works well with people." Additional policies announced be hospitalized for a checkup. 
VOL. Ill, No. 113 TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 1969 


THE OBSERVER TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 1969
PAGE 2 
in Free University 
1n



Ideology, Tactics studied • Radical Studies Program 
A Radical Studies Program has now been set up as a new course of the Free University. The program includes the Ideo­logy, Independent Study, and Tactics of Radicalism and has been introduced to the Free University by Junior Tim Me­Carry. 
Marxism and Christian Radi­calism will be studied as part of the Ideology of radicalism. The Course on Marxism will be a survey of classical Marxian poli­tical thought, with consideration of neo-Marxian, revisionist, and Maoist ideology and will be taught by a South Bend member of the Communist Party. Chris­tian Radicalism will include a study of Christian radical thought and action in the twen­tieth century. • 
The University in Society and a course on South Bend, Indiana will be taught under the heading of Independent Study. The Uni­versity in Society is a coordi­nated program into research of social, political, and economic interests and connections of Notre Dame and its administra­tive elite. 
Students will work individual­ly for the most part, in areas of particular interest to themselves. The course on South Bend will involve individual and small group investigation into the so­cial and economic structure and relationships of St. Joseph coun­ty and its city. 
A study of the Tactical Group will be the main attraction under the Tactics of radicalism. This program will survey the physical and tactical aspects of both non-violent and violent direct 

Alumni Club selected Senior Bar 
The results of the referendum by the Junior class on next year's Senior Bar were announced Monday by Jack Crawford, Jr. Class Vice Presi-
Miller Makes it Right! 
dent. The Juniors voted over­whelmingly for the present site of the Alumni Club to be used again next year. Louies, the other laternative, lost by a mar­gin of 675 to 45. 
The management of Louies offered to build an addition to the present building to be used for the Senior Bar, provided they sign a five year contract. Crawford pointed out the advan­tages of keeping the present sight far outnumber the pro­posed bar at Louies. The reason the bar was moved to the Alum-
Iron Maidens, Love 
Winnie and R.J. 

(PLOP) 
ni Club was because of the "trouble that arose frequently at off campus bars." ·Moving the bar back off campus would be "just inviting trouble to return." 
The class officers hope that it will influence the decision of the University on whether to turn the Alumni Club over to the graduate students or not. 

Another reason for not moving the bar is the amount of profits that have come out of the pres­ent sight since it opened in January. A similar outcome next year along with the business the football season brings should greatly benefit the class. He also 
feels that a "fraternity" atmos­phere was begun this year at the Alumni Club and that he would like to see a similar situation 



t--------------L-n_e_x_t..:y_e_a_r._________-twar in Vietnam. The vigil is 
Is ThisYour Number? 304967 
If so, come to the Bookstore 
with your stub and collect your 

Polaroid Camera 
any day between 9 and 5. 
The Junior, Sophomore, Freshman Classes of 
the University of Notre Dame present their 

Tri-Ciass Prom 

ac 

action. It will include the keep­ing of order and defense against hecklers and police harassment, and self-protection in physical civil disobedience situations. 
The program will hold an open house every Friday at 8:00 PM at the St. Francis House. On many occasions a significant Ca­tholic radical will speak. This Friday will be the first meeting of the Christian Radical Course. 
One of the more important aims of the Radical Studies Pro­gram is to set up a course in Women's Liberation. This course will consider differential pay, problems of discrimination against women, and male supremacy. 
Students who can be contac­ted about the Radical Studies Program are Don Hynes, John Kraniak, Laura and John Dotson, George Koszis, Fran Maier, and McCarry. 

Breen -Philips vandals captured 
A group of disorderly stu­dents who ransacked the base­ment lounge of Breen Philips Hall early Sunday morning were apprehended yesterday. 
Both the Hall President and the Hall Judicial Board Chair­man refused to disclose the names of the students. "We ex­pect reparations to be made for the damage," stated John Knorr, Chairman of the Hall Judicial Board. Payment to the respect­ive companies for the new equip­ment will be made either by the students involved or through Hall funds, he added. 
A juke box ten days old was battered by a pool cue. Many 
On April 12 there will be a twenty-four hour, nationwide peaceful vigil to express Amer­ican student opposition to the 
scheduled to start on each col­lege campus at nine o'clock in the morning. 
When contacted by the Observer, a representative of the coordinating committee said that he realized that Notre Dame records were destroyed and frag­ments of glass fouled up the machine. A pool table, pur­chased three days ago was also damaged. The pool cues were broken, the felt was torn and one of the brackets was cracked. Several hall lounge chairs also failed to escape vandalism. 
Beer cans and litter were scat­tered all over the basement floor. Some were also found outside on the ground by the north side of the building. 
It is not known whether the students who were caught will be tried by the Hall 1udicial Board or the Campus Judicial Board. 


Vietnam Peace Vigil April 12 
and several other colleges would be on spring break April 12. He urged Notre Dame students to contact colleges near to where they will be and to participate in their vigils. 
He also said that it was impor­tant that each person who op­posed the war make an indivi­dual effort to participate in the vigil, in order to give it the desired national impact. 

Applications lor: 

Student Body Secretary 
Student Body Treasurer Student Servi(·es Director will be open April 14-20 
Contact Beth Driscoll 
Box 376, SMC 

TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 1969 PAGE 3


THE OBSERVER 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Tom £hrbar ··············· MaiI·············· 


The Coup 
Annexation thought of someday being When Rick tells us about Editor: enrolled in a University that black enrollment and white
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Thank you for your humor­housed seven thousand lonely historians, I applaud him. But I ous story in Friday's Observer males. Coming from poor

Now it can be told. Besides myself, University President ~cv. certainly am not "geared toward concerning South Bend's plans surroundings I immediately
Theodore llcsburgh, the Indiana National Guard, and hal_f the N1xon the destruction of blacks." I am 
to annex Notre Dame and St. found a rather pleasant and
administration everyone else has been left completely 1n the dark. barely surviving myself, and,
Mary's. 
stimulating pastime to work my
But following 'the international code of journalism ("If you dig deep recognizing that whites do It isn't often that one can way through school. Nightly I
enough you'll hit some dirt") I have daringly decided to break the control almost everything, have 
laugh over a newspaper these 
can be found in the second floor
story to the rest of you uninformed intcllcctu~ls. . to concentrate on knocking off 
days so your kindness in indulg­john of the Memorial Library,
Actually the whole thing is rather amazmg. It mvolves a plot, the ones in my way. And when 
ing in some witty fiction was all affectionately aiding and
instigated by a subversive group infamously known as the Ch,1cago Rick tells me that there is "no 
the more appreciated. I am refer­
counseling many frustrated
Club to destroy the Administration Building over the Easter meaning" in our physical
ring specifically tothe quote the 
students.
Vaca,tion. The news leaked out of the Chi Club's annual meeting intermingling and that "blacks 
story attributes to Father
when a drunken janitor accidentally overheard their plans to stage a feel that (their) survival is aided 
llesburgh: "It was disappointing Now with the threatening by (their) sitting together,"giant coup. The janitor, fearing for his position, quick!y raced to te!l 
to be faced with unilateral possibility of coeducation, my must ask him to read moreFather llesburgh, who happened to be m Peru at the tune (but that s action on the part of the city gay life is gravely endangered. 
carefully whitey's history books.
neither here nor there; and neither is Father Hesburgh usually). Soon before the advantages and disad­The thought of mini-skirts and 
We've heard those lines vantages, both to the city and long blonde hair on girls just
a letter fluttered into Washington, straight from llcsburgh to the 
before-like for most of two
nation's leaders. President Nixon was also informed: and his first the University, could be thor­makes me sick. What will happen 
hundred years. The situation wasreaction, after consulting with Spiro T. Agnew was to activate 
oughly discussed by both par­to the Notre Dame men that we 
called "irrevocable" then, too.
Indiana's National Guard (which, in fact, is almost like trying to tics." have come to know and love? 
God bless you, Rick. And I doubt that I have ever 
activate Spiro T.). Now all they can do is wait. They think they They will probably take up such Maulana, too.
know the whole story, but they don't. Only I do. 
encountered as excellent an unnatural activities as dating, Chuck Nau
llere is what has really been going on behind closed doors and example of irony as the com­dancing, kissing, fondling, and I48 Farleyaway from drunkt.n janitors. It is true tha_t _the ~:hicag~ C:Iub has plaint your writer has thus put even pre-marital interdigitation.
formulated strategy to overthrow the Adrmmstratwn Bu!ldmg. But And the most horrifying thought
in our President's mouth. Just
what everyone else is unaware of, falling somchwere within the of all is that it will all be with
think: the man who made "uni­
Student taken ..
credibility gape, is why. 
lateral action" an alumni-house­girls. Oh well, at least I can The real reason for the Chi Club's bid for glory was because they 
always be sure of my roommate.
hold word complains about in parking lotpicked up a rumor that the Young Christian Activists were in fact, Love and kisses,
Mayor Allen's "unilateral
themselves pondering how to bring the downfall of the A Notre Dame student was
BJ(; IIOMO & FRIENDS Administration Building. And the Club figured that if such a arrested Friday night, foraction"! Superb, superb! 
Boy, and it is a lucky thing

maneuver was contemplated by a group as obscure as the Young ransacking a car in parking lot 
your story was only a joke!
Christians. even they wuld pull it off. God 131css Rick I -D. Arthur Pears, director of
Why, if it weren't, our Reverend
But still the story isn't complete. The real reason behind the security, only gave out a few
Father President Chairman 
Editor:
YCS's sudden malevolent spurt was because they heard the Young pieces of information, when
would have to assume yet 
Rich Ames' letter in the

Republicans were scheming along the same lin~s. And the _':CS contacted last night.
another title: 1/ypocrite! 
friday, March 2/'!th edition of
wanted to upstage the YR's and finally hop mto the pohhcal "A student was arrested and
Sincerely, 

the 0/JSHR VHR was superb! lie
ballpark here at ND. (Maybe what they heard was a "foul tip.") But incarcerated last Friday night,
Thomas J. Scorza reminded me of Ma ulana Ron

the YR's were merely acting on a rumor that the Young Democrats for ransacking a car, in parking
Karcnga refusing to cat at the
were trying to pull off you-know-what, and they simply hoped to Coed Revisited lot 1-D," Pears said. 
Morris Inn last year because they
seize the opportunity first and discredit their foes. And the YO's When asked to elaborate, or 
didn't serve South Africa lobster
were responding to a Threat to overthrow the Dome by the Young Editor: comment further on the arrest,
tail real "black food." Someone
Americans for Freedom who were, themselves, conspiring to In reference to your series on Pears said he was, "unable to forgot to tell Maulana Ron
counteract secret plans by the Students for a Democratic Society, coeducation at Notre Dame, I give out any other information." 
about who owns what and
who started the whole thing somewhere in the House That Jack would like to voice my strongest Pears did state though, that 
whom in South Africa, but it's
Built. disapproval. I am a young the student's case was, "pending
the thought that counts.
homosexual for whom such a downtown."
It sounds complicated but it's really very simple. The SDS, Rick tells us honkics that we
plot would be disasterous. I am The South Bend Police werepressured by the brilliant ploys of SDS groups at other school~, 
arc "psuedo-psuedos"-and, in
not speaking in behalf of myself also contacted, but they flatly
decided the time had finally arrived for some sort of dramatic doing so, not only mouths friend
alone, but also for my many refused to give out any
display of power. And since the Administration Building, with its George Wallace but outdoes him
intimate "friends" on the information at all.
capitalistic and bourgeois Gold Dome, represented, more than North Quad one (thus gracing us with a 
The desk Sgt. stated that he Ever since I was a young high was, "not allowed to give out 
anything else around here, the l:"stablishment-the SDS agreed to 
double negative: " 'Reals' of the
strike there. school student at an all boys that kind of information to
world unite! You have nothingOne particularly glib spokesman for the SDS even produced a school, I had cherished the to lose but your psuedoness!' "). anybody."
"Dome of Gold" speech; concluding breathlessly with "You shall 
not crucify the student body (all 20 of the SDS) upon a Dome of Gold." A shivorous frenzy raced through the group and their slanted wheels of thinking rolled into a definite plan for action. They even were considering whether the Ad ministration people should be allowed IS minutes to cease and desist. Of course, they hadn't counted on a proposed counter-attack by the YAF, and the subsequently proposed counter-counter-attacks, which resulted in the activiation of the Indiana National (;uard. 
At this I will close, having adequately proven, this early in the month that all of you arc April's biggest fools, for having read this nonsense all the way through. 

Earthquake hits 
Remember: 

CONTOURA'~ 
with Diamonds of 

Girl cheerleader tryouts will begin .first 

Ultimate beauty
week after Easter. Watch for posters. 






CHICAGO CLUB 

WAU, SUDAN (UPI)-A series 

Air conditioned 2Y:. room, new, 
of carthq uakes yesterday shud­
completely furnished apartment. dered through the Middle East 
Modern shower, bathroom and from Cairo to Istanbul, leaving 
kitchen facilities. Dishware, household items included 6
hundreds of persons homeless in 
blocks from Columbia University,
at least seven countries. Lesser 
2 blocks from subway, 10 min­
tremors struck southern Europe 
utes from Times Square. Available
and the slopes of Mt. Etna on 
June, July, August-Storatz, Apt.
Sicily. 
7d, 2790 Broadway, N.Y., N.Y., 
Ethiopian officials reported at 

10025. least 300 persons homeless as a 
["~~~:~:~ke.:..._.ar-JWe-__.L_II/_~_isiiJit_/llt.__, 
Or{Ualtl .. qtdtl 
k» THE PINrST FtfClASSfS AND CONTACJ LENSES ntf lfa.AND ILOG.-132 5. MICNGAN ST.-Cfntrol 2-1..a 
t~tJloiiSt ofVision lift. 
Mel.. Oflce, 1U N. W.._. Aw. -a... 
PRESENTS 


AN EASTER ROMP 
featuring 
••THE END'' 

SATURDAY APRIL 12th 
at AMERICAN LEGION POST 5220 9514 S. 52nd AVE. 
Illustration Enlarged 

Her fondest dreams come tn.e when you choose a Contoura diamond bridal set. 
by~zbe~ 
Diamond lmportC 
The Observer. Is published dally during the college semester exce~t vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary s 
· WHDLESALE·­




OAK LAWN
College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 frofl! The Observer, Box SEE:'Il BY APPOINTMENT
11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paod, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 

THE OBSERVER TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 1969
PAGE 4 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

•




Farley takes ICe title 
Farley Hall, after finishing faced a Zahm squad which had Sorisc pushed in the clingher for fifth during the regular season, demolished Off Campus 7-4 and Farley with :40 left. Pulling the dumped Morrissey for the Inter-8-2. The Zahmbies led through­goalie in the last seconGis cost hall Hoc key playoff champion-out most of the first game, but desperate Morrissey a fourth goal ship. The Collegians swept the Farley came back to tie the at :02. 2-of-3 game final series with 4-2 score 6-6 at the end of regula­Both teams got the bulk of and 4-3 victories. tion time. The Collegians then their scoring done early in the 
Morrissey won the regular sea-went on to score in the sudden second contest. At theend of son title, then defeated last place death overtime and win 7-6. the first period it was 3-3. Mid­Cavanaugh to reach the finals. Zahm proved easier the second way through the second stanza, Farley had a tough time getting time, losing 4-1. Farley's Stan Narkta scored the by runner-up Howard, but won Greg Kaelin (Morr.) and John go ahead goal and the defenses the deciding game 2-1 in over-McCarthy (Far.) each scored ruled for the rest of the way time on a goal by Dick Luebbe. twice in the first final contest to 
In the semi-finals, Farley knot the score at 2-2. Then Dom 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111.11111111111111111111111111 
Lacrosse 


The Notre Dame Lacrosse Club plays an eight game sched­ule that is as demanding as any to be found in the Midwest. Rocky Mountain powerhouses
sport~ parade Air Force and Denver, and Mid­west champion Denison, joinBy Milt Richman, UPI sports columnist blood rivals Michigan State and Ohio State on the Irish schedule. 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Even with the loss of several key defensive players through grad­
Another Oklahoman 
uation, stopping their opponents 
TAMPA,, Fla. (UPI)-Base­Only the other day, Rube should be one of the team's ball's newest Golden Boy is a Walker, the Mets' coach, noticed strong points. Improvement in pleasant, pink cheeked kid from Bench across the field and said the midfields has increased the Binger, Okla., whose biggest re­to one of the Reds' coaches: depth at that position. Stress on gret is that he never got to see ''There goes the first the need to control the ball and Mickey Mantle play. $200,000 ballplayer." rapid development of the newer 
"The closest I ever came was Earlier this spring, Bench sent players in the fall session both 
a baseball over to be auto­

last spring," says Johnny Bench, point to a successful season for graphed by Ted Williams. The the stickmen.
Cincinnati's red hot 21 year old new Washington manager pro­Last season, the Irish pro­catcher from whom the Reds. 

vided the signature and later

wouldn't take a million bucks in duced two all-Midwest players, found out Bench had asked for dcfenseman Bob Trost, and
cold cash right now. "The it.
Yankees came over here for an attack standout Bob Morin. exhibition game with us but "Was that ball for him?" he Trost will be available for spot Mickey didn't play that day." asked a newsman. "Can you get duty with the club this season, 
There are three reasons why it back for me? I wanna write while Morin returns as a mid­Bench would feel more of a something else on it." fielder. He has averaged 35 goals kinship with Mantle than usually The ball was returned to a year for the last two seasons, exists between one ballplayer Williams and he inked the ranking him high in the nation as 
and another. 

words: "To a future Hall of a scorer. Fa mer for sure."
Both came from Oklahoma, The rest of the team shows a Binger being even smaller than Johnny Bench has only one good balance of experience and Commerce; Bench already is be­full year under his belt and at his youth. Seniors Dan Brouder and 
ing pegged as the brightest, most age he might be forgiven if such Len Niessen with freshman Ed exciting prospect to hit the things as Walker said and Hoban will make strong contri­scene since Mickey and it was Williams wrote had a tendency butions on attack. Senior Presi­the ex-Yankee superstar who to make him swagger a bit. dent Mike Satarino is versatile, triggered the baseball career of But they haven't and he performing both at attack and 
Cincy's new No. I boy. doesn't. He's conducting himself midfield. Senior Frank Piel­Strictly by accident. the same way he did a year ago sticker and junior Tim McHugh "I was five years old and when everybody was saying big have each started for two years watching a ball game on TV things about him, too. at midfield. Waiting their turns 
when I saw Mickey Mantle and "I appreciate what's been said arc a large number of sopho­heard he was from Oklahoma," very much," he says, looking mores from last year's J V team. Bench recalls. "I made up my down at his spiked shoes the The club should be able to field 
same way Mantle did when he

mind right there I was going to three equally good lines, a factor 
be a ballplayer and make the first cam up, "but all those that will prove valuable late in major leagues." things won't help me hit tomor­games. Senior Jim Wachtel will row. That's something I have to
Johnny Bench made it even anchor the defense. Grad Dave bigger his first year than Mickey do for myself." Lando, and juniors Jack Pierce,As in Mantle's case also, it was
Mantle did. They sent Mantle Chris Servant, Phil Eagan, and back to the minors Bench's father, Ted, who helped
during his "Curley" Freyre show the depthhim most in his formative base­
first season but Bench made the available in the defense. Goalie All Star team last season and was ball years. Later two other ball­Jerry Kammer returns for his named National League Rookie players, Link Curtis and Steve sophomore year as Notre Dame's 
of the Year. last line of defense.
Boros, did. Curtis, a teammate at 
Some argued that Jerry Koos­
Peninsula of the Carolina 
man, the Mets' 19 game winner, League, helped Johnny with his Easter sports cardshould have gotten the rookie 

confidence, land Boros with "a 
accolade, but when you consider 
whole Iotta things about life" 

Bench batted .275, knocked in For Notre Dame sports teams
when both were with Buffalo. 

82 runs, hit 15 homers and set a Easter means a chance to leave
Without getting up on any

major league record for most South Bend and see what the
soapbox, Johnny Bench lets you 

games caught by a rookie, 154, real world is like. This vacation,
know he has every intention of 

Koosman's 19 wins come out the four major sports teams will
being one of baseball's greatest

exactly the way they did-sec­see action in various parts of the
catchers ever. 

ond best. country.
You ask him what if he 

If you line up all the unbe­Jake Kline's baseball squad is
doesn't make it, and he stops

lievable comments made about scheduled for seven games in
you right there by telling you

Bench end to end, he could eight days down in Texas, the
straight out: "I'll make it." 

retire right now with the biggest golfers play in Pennsylvania and
The great state of Oklahoma 

one year scrapbook in history. Ohio, the Tennis team plays four 
has never produced a President 
matches in Florida, and theHe has no intention of doing of the United States but baseball Track scene switches to Wil­

people don't hold that against it.
so. He's a rarity in this day and liamsburg, Virginia. 
What other state has come up

age in that he can handle all the with fellows like Carl Hubbell, The Notre Dame Rugby Club
raves. They don't go to his head. 

the two Waner brothers, Dizzy will be spending the Easter break He's succeeding at the toughest Dean, Mickey Mantle ... and now in Bermuda.
job of all. Tougher yet than 

coping with that good major Johnny Bench? Forty-five ruggers will travel league pitching. He's keeping his Besides, as the Reds' catcher to the sunny isle with the Met equilibrium and some of the says: Club. In addition to enjoying the 
game's greatest stars had trouble "This is better than being "Cardinal" they may also serum doing that in the past. President, anyway." a little. 
By Mike Pavlin, sports editor 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Dee 
Last Thursday night a strange embarrassment came to an end. The 1968-69 basketball season concluded with an A wards Ban­quet in the Monogram Room of the Convo Center. Two of the finest ever to play bail at Notre Dame bowed out, a superb soph­omore was selected as junior captain, and the 20-7 season's record was praised. 
For the student body, how­ever, the past season will be remembered for what it didn't accomplish. With the entire '67-'68 first team back and with the arrival of several outstanding sophs, the Irish seemed ready for a high NCAA finish. 
But something went wrong along the way. Little teams like Butler were bludgeoned, rather than finessed, to death. Excel­lent performances against St. John's and Utah State were 
balanced by terrible ones against Illinois and Michigan State. Creighton moved the whole thing to the edge of the cliff and Miami of Ohio pushed it over. 
It is hard to find fault with a 20-7 season, especially when it is the best in recent years. This year's Irish out-shot, out-scored and out-rebounded their oppon­ents. Few teams in the past have posted back-to-back twenty-win seasons. Yet these facts were small recompense for the hopes held by the students. From the autumn of 1967 when the first optomistic reports radiated from the Fieldhouse until the autumn of 1968 when TRUE Magazine picked NO No. I, expectations of greatness grew. And when 
greatness waned and died, the students placed the blame on the man they felt responsible-John Dee. 
The whole spectrum of unpopularity-from the "Dump Dec" signs on doors to the boo­ing during game introductions­must seem bewildering to a man who has done so much in his coaching career. John Dee pro­duced winning teams for the University of Alabanta and for the Denver Truckers of the 
Industrial Basketball League . 
When the old America Basket­
ball League folded, one ol tlle 
teams on top was coached by 
John Dee. 
At Notre Dame, Dee has 
helped to build basketball pres­
tige through his recruiting. He 
went to the NIT last year with a 
team that wasn't given much 
chan cc of finding Madison 
Square Garden, much less win­
ning any games. Playing with 
two guards who were second 
string this year, the Irish cap­
tured third place after losing the semi-final in ovcrti111e to the eventual champion. 
During the past season, Dee 
was saddled with an incredible 
number of injuries: Meehan, 
O'Connell, Carr. Bob Arnzen 
played the entire season on a 
fault heel. Sid Catlett missed frosh ball and the chance for a year of valuable playing 

experience. In spite of these factors, Notre Dame students continued to boo Dee and the moves he made. 
In the opinion of this writer, Dee was castigated because he failed the students' imag" of a great coach. Reflect if you will, and decide who you believe is a great coach and why. John Wooden just won his third straight NCAA championship with help from Lew Alcindor. Wooden is not a great coach only because of that. He has won two other titles, one of them with a pint-sized team (tal­lest man was Keith Ericson at 6-5). That bunch of maniacs demolished teams with a Wood­en specialty-a blitzkrieg gently labeled "zone press". 
On the other side of the coun­

try, Jack Kraft of Villanova 
bedevils foes with a complex 
zone defense. Tennessee's Ray 
Mears has been the only coach 
to effectively shackle "Pistol" 
Pete Maravich, using a "Chinese" 
defense. and Tony Hinkle has 
driven ND fans batty twice a 
year since Creation with his 
wonderfully patterned, ball­
control offense. 
To the fan with these images 
in mind, John Dee fails to come 
acrtoss. His teams play an aver­
age man-to-man defense. There 
is no regular press, no sophisti­
cated zone. His offense empha­
sizes individual play with oc­
casional "swing it" from the 
bench. One seldom sees a pick or 
a set play. The student begins to 
wonder whether Dee is coaching 
or merely taking statistics. 
So the stmli>nt complains, 
says Dee is incompetent, says he 
wins the majority of his games 
because of the skill of his play· 
ers. Justified criticism? Hardly. 
Yet Dee has clearly disappointed 
many among the student body. 
Perhaps this past year was 
simply one of adjustment for 
John Dee. For what must h::tve 
been one of the few times in his 
coaching career, Dec was faced 
with a glut of talent. Perhaps he 
was tempted to leave this talent 
alone instead of sharpen it. 
At Notre Dame, the ju,ry is 
still out in the case against John 
Dee. He has a chance fo':' a 
favorable verdict before he 
leaves in two years, but it is up 
to him. Next year he faces re­
building problems and another 
rough schedule. 
This reporter urges John Dee 
to do some serious thinking this 
fUmmer and some serious coa~:h­
ing this fall, to polish his ball 
players instead of watching 
them, to install an offense which 
mo~es toward a goal instead of 
waiting for a mistake in the 
defense. 
John Dee has had an excellent 
coaching career. This writer 
would like to see him end it at 
Notre Dame in cheering instead 
of booing. 





