

-~. 

---,..,...,..-:-:-=-~~------------(S;:;c:rv;:
VOL. Ill, NO. 121 1 _ THURSDAY, APRIL 24,1969 
Few contests are close 
Crawford, Doyle, Connell win presidencies 

Results delayed by missing ballots; turnout is called disappointing 
by Jim Raley Zimmerman echoed McKen­na's feelings in saying, "I feel the
Last night's class elections, burden of the problem has to bethrown into a broiling turmoil as assumed by the people on thea result of three misplaced ballot Election Committee. One of theboxes, finally produced winners basic problems was that most offor each contested office early us on the committee have notthis morning. 
had the opportunity to goThe senior class officers e­through the procedures before lected, with only the treasurer's and the committee had to move 
race hotly contested were: JackRay Connell 
Jack Crawford quickly on the election because 
Crawford, president; John Galla­of the time schedule that madegher, Vice President; Tom Mig­it necessary.
nanelli, treasurer; and Curt De­Jack Crawford was elected 
Clue, secretary. 

President of the Senior Class by

SMC stay senators are elected 
Junior class officers elected all an overwhelming margin. After unopposed were: Barry Doyle, his election, Crawford had this President; Tom Olivieri, Vice
by Carolyn Gatz . of the statement that "dress Ann Marie Tracy and Irish to say, "Although the size of t~e 
President; Brian Zevnik, Secre­
Freshman senators Ann Mane should be appropriate to the vote has admittedly dis­
MacNamara calling for extension 
tary; and Carl Pavelko, Treas­
Tracy, Irish NacNa mara and standards of the community." of freshman hours to include appointed me, the people who 
urer.

sophomore Noreen Jordan ac­Uncovered bathing suits and worked for me and the Class of
three late privileges per semester. 
Sophomore class officers e­
cepted positions as Stay curlers outside the residence I 97 0 it self has never dis­
This would allow a freshman to 
lected with the president and
Senators to the newly created areas arc cited as examples of appointed me and I hope I will 
sign out as an upperclassman 
treasurer's races fairly tight
Student Assembly for next year. inappropriate attire. This pro­never disappoint them.
when she chose to use these 
were: Ray Connell, President;
Prior to the elections last night, posal will go to the Student "Many people have been de­
permissions. Action on this bill 
Joe Stankus, Vice President; lar­
the S MC Legislature recon­Affairs Council May 8 for final bating the value of the class
will not preclude ex tension of 
ry Burns, Secretary; and Dan
sidered their decision to form adoption. government here at Notre Dame.
upperclass sign out procedure to 
McGrogan, Treasurer. 
these positions and placed a one The regulation as stated by I have no time to debate this
second semester freshmen, 
The dispute occurred over the
term limit on the offices. the Committee throws interpre­question. I meet with Dave Witt, 
which a sub-committee of 
ballot boxes of Farley, Mor~au
The Legislature meeting tation to the Judicial System for Father McCarragher, and Mr. 
focused on problems involved in Student Affairs Committee is and St. Joseph's halls not being Faccenda tomorrow morning to
ruling in individual cases brought studying. 
turned in to Student Govern­ment for counting. 
the shift from class to hall repre­before it by any member of the discuss the Senior Bar situation. 
sentation with the Student community. Action to liberalize I've been given a job to do and it
The Legislature meeting
Assembly. A motion to stipulate the present regulations began The temporarily lost ballot will be done."
focused on problems involved in box of Farley proved to be the John Gallagher who was e­that a senator changingresidence with a petition to repeal all rules 
the shift from class to hall repre­
halls during her term would only one of the three missing lected Senior Class Vice Presi­
on dress which 600 students 
sentation with the Student
automatically forfeit her office signed earlier this year. The boxes to have any affect at all dent said this, "I would like to
Assembly. A motion to stipulate
was unanimously passed. Legislature provided a bill to the on the races. Not one person express my thanks for those who
that a senator changing residence 
Vice President Sally Strobel voted from Moreau or St. Jo­worked for me and for those
Committee for action. 
halls during her term would
reported the decision of the Stu­Before adjournment, the sena­seph's. who voted for me. I know I can
automatically forfeit her office

dent Affairs Committee to abo­tors agreed to convene April 30 
was unanimously passed. 
lish all dress regulations in favor to consider a bill introduced by 
CLASS ELECTION RESULTS 
SENIOR CLASS OFFICERS President: Paul W. Buchbinder Jar.k Crawford  197 311  
Vice President: John Gallagher Thomas F. Smith  458 141  
Treasurer: Tom Mignanelli Paul P. Partyka  291 283  
Secretary: Curt DeClue Joseph F. Murray Bob Mooney  2C6 200 106  
JL'NIOR CLASS OFFICERS  
President: Barry Doyle  303  

Vice President: (JRS.) Thomas Olivieri 340 
Secretary: Brian Zevnik 327 
Treasurer: Carl Pavelko 330 
SOPHOMORE CLASS OFFICERS 
President: 
Ray Connell (Joseph Stankus) 
490 415

Joseph K ieffaber 86
Ace 

Vice President: Joseph Stankus (Ray Connell) 502 Frank J. Fahey, Jr. 427 
Secretary: Lawrence P. Burns 561 Eric J. K inkopf 354 Treasurer: Daniel McGrogan 486 Cass Regent 451 
John Zimmerman, a student work with Jack to do more for government official, explained the Senior Class. I think we can that the mix-up in Farley occur­accomplish more than just in the red because of confusion in the social aspect." student government office. Barry Doyle was elected Ju­
When a Farley representative nior Class President without any 
was sent to the office to pick up opposition. After being elected, the box yesterday morning, he Doyle stated what plans he had did not sign a list of people for the class for the rest of this taking out the boxes from each year and next. . hall. The disorder resulting from "First of all, the class will the switching of class lists for almost assuredly be out of debt voting officials to check names by June because of summer stor­off on to hall lists distracted the age. This weekend we are spon­officials from this task. soring a trip to Barat. There is 
Consequently, when the box also the possibility of getting the was not returned after the polls Quaba Club back on our terms closed, student government due to the boycott. Plans are leaders were unable to find out also in the making now for who had the box. A Farley hall another party at the Red Barn 
similar to the fiasco that wasmember, who officials refu~ed t_o held last Spring.
name noticed the box Iymg 111 his r~om and brought it to ~he 
"Right now we arc working to voting headquarters after wh1ch 
allow Junior cars on Campus. We are looking into possible loca­
final tabulations were made. tions for more parking lots and
The explanation behind the in three weeks we will present amissing ballot box in Moreau bill to the SLC."
and St. Joseph, was simpler as Ray Connell, the incumbenthall officials aw not realize that Freshman Class President andthey had to return the boxes victor in the Sophomore presi­even if no one voted. 
dential race stated, "I greatlyAfter they were contacted the appreciate all those who havebox was returned. No names voted for me and all those who were released by student govern-worked for me. The interest in 
ment. 
the class has greatly increased McKenna commenting on the 
since the beginning of this year.why of the problems encoun­
And the future looks bright for tered during the elections said, 
our class." "It was student government's Joe Stankus who was elected fault that the coordination of the Sophomore Class Vice Presi­the election was not as efficient dent, was unavailable for com­as it should have been and the ment. lie had been unable to problems were due to some de­return from home since Easter gree to a lack of cooperation in vacation because he is still recu­the halls. pcmting from a recent illness. 

r 
f 
I I I 
THE OBSERVER 
THURSDAY, APRIL 24, 1969PAGE 2
I 
----------------------------~-----------­
I I I I I 
Driving Range 
Alumni room controversy continues 
The Alumni Hall Council met late yesterday afternoon and voted not to go along with the 
Par 3 Golf Course 
Miniature Golf Course 

setting aside of the best rooms in the Hall for athletes. Later 
Open -Day & Night Father Joseph O'Neill, the rector of Alumni, overruled the Hall(weather permitting) Council's decision and directed to continue with room picks with the rooms in question still

Playland Golf Center 
set aside. Father O'Neill made the over­1700 Lincoln Way East ruling after discussing with 
South Bend, Ind. 

Father Whelan the possibility of 
Phone 288.0033 

relocating the athletes in the other halls. But Father Whelan said that it would be impossible to make :."" ' 1nges at this late date. 
"We had been instructed by the Dean of Student Housing, Father Whelan to select certain rooms which would be set aside for athletes. The main reason that the Hall Council's decision is being overruled is that it is too late in the picking to make any changes without affecting the entire campus. However, Fat her Whelan plans to make a study into room selections so that the problems that have arisen this 
Look what you canget awaywith now. 
The Honda Scrambler 175. Nothing to hold you back when you team up with this baby. 
It's the beginning and the end. The end of shelling out big money for gas, parking, upkeep and insurance. The beginning of a new kind of freedom. The 175 takes you where you want to go-on or off the road. And it takes you there with power-a rugged 4-stroke OHC twin engine that moves out to 80 mph. 
Why wait? Get away with the Scrambler 175 today at your nearest Honda dealer. 


HONDA 
See your Honda dealer for a color brochure. safely pamphlet and "Invisible Circle" film. or wnte Amencan Honda Motor Co .. Inc. Dept C-15. Box 50. Ge•dena. Cafiforn1a 90247. 
good room on Campus, and now year will not occur again next they go and give the best roomsyear." 
to the football jocks."

Alumni Hall President Tony A freshman also stated, "As itScolaro was not available for before this
comment. However, many was having quota, 
quite a few freshman were beingAlumni residents voiced their forced out of the Hall. As it isopinion. 
now, I probably will not haveOne senior-to-be said, "The any chance at all to get into theseniors have been waiting for Hall."
three years in order to get a 
GaitherYRchairman 
John F. Gaither, Jr. is the new Larry Ptasinski eked out a vic­Chairman of the Notre Dame tory over Jim Frericks. Young Republicans after he gar­Mary Ann Maren was an al­nered a narrow five vote plur­most unanimous choice as Co­ality in yesterday's election. The -Chairman. past year's chairman, Mike Kel­Gaither in commmenting on ly, declined to seek re-election. his close win said, "I was very 
Gaither tallied forty-five votes encouraged by the turnout for to Joe Furjanic's forty votes and the election. It is the best turn­Casey Pocius's eleven votes. out we have had in recent years. 
The race for secretary was as Looking to the future, Larry, hotly contested as the chair­Mary Ann, and myself feel the man's race. Five votes proved to club will show added strength in 
be the difference here also. as the coming year." 
·THE WORLD TODAY 
Campus rebellions,disorders mushroom 
(UPI)-The campus rebellion mushroomed yesterday. 
Building occupations, campus lockouts, student strikes and protest demonstrations spread through dozens of colleges and universities. 
Eastern schools-including the Ivy League elite-were especially hard hit by the swelling chorus of dissent by minority but highly vocal bands of students. 
At gun frightened Cornell University, more than 1,000 students occupied a gymnasium, awaiting faculty action on demands that it nullify disciplinary action against black students. 
A group of American University students took over the school's administration building in Washington, D.C., and ousted Presid~nt George IL Williams from his office. 
City College of New York was closed down while some 1,000 students and the faculty met to settle differences over demands for 50 per cent enrollment of Negroes and Puerto Ricans. 
Eighty dissidents seized New York University's hall of languages to protest the English department's refusal to rehire a popular professor. 
Jury condemns Sirhan to death row 
LOS ANGELES (UPI)-Sirhan B. Sirhan, showing no emotion and convinced that no one could save him from the gas chamber, was 
condemned  Wednesday  to  die for  the  murder of Sen. Robert F.  
Kennedy.  
The  is  year  old  Arab  nonchalantly  chewed  gum  as  the jury  

decreed the death sentence. He told his attorneys he was not surprised and added, "even Jesus Christ could not have saved me." 
Appeals of the verdict were expected to stay indefinitely Sirhan's execution for the assassination of the presidential candidate in an Ambassador Hotel pantry last June 5. 
His attorneys immediately launched the first of what was expected to be a long series of legal maneuvers to save Sirhan's life by moving for a new trial. Superior Court Judge Herbert V. Walker set a hearing on the motion for May 14, the same date he will formally impose the death sentence on Sirhan. 
Chief defense attorney Grant B. Cooper said he would base his appeals on three things. He thought the judge did not exercise discretion in refusing to accept a guilty plea to first degree murder by Sirhan in return for a life sentence. 
He said he would also argue that the jury was not properly constituted and, thirdly, he contended Sirhan's notebooks were I"eceived in evidence over the defendant's objections. 
Looking for Some Action 
BARAT Has it This Weekend 
Buses Leave ND at 1 PM. Sat. April 26 
5:00 Fried Chicken Dinner 8-12 Mixer-"Seven Seas" 

BusesRetz:rnat l.I.M. JOA.M Sun. For Braver unuls-Motel Rooms available Bus, Dinner & Mixer $7 
Tickets available at the bus Sponsored by Oub '71 (of course) 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
.. 
,_TH_U_R_S_D_A_Y~,A_P_R_IL_2_4~,_19_6_9______________________________~~l.f.~~~().==~-~---~------------------------------------------~P~A~G~E~ 
Dear Mr. Galvin: 
I speak of the future the 
vacuumous invisibility of the 
coming times. The future has one certainty: the total acceptance by big business of the computer as a replacement for the office worl<er. Business 
has followed the times, even paced the times. Therefore, the 
speed, accuracy, and future creativity of developing computers cannot be denied by future business. 
The clerk, the bureaucratic non­entity of business, will be replaced by the complexity, yet practical simplicity of the computer. A computer gathers and analyzes information faster and more accurately than man. The memory loci< of any computer offers the most logical answer to any given problem and theoretically possesses an unlimited memory. And ifscience can duplicate in the machine the DNA code of the human, the creative thoughts of the human could be synthesized in the machine. 
The computer's primary code could essentially simulate man's life controlling function regulated by the mysterious DNA amino acids code. When research, as at the University of Chicago, refines its DNA investigation and applies it to cybernetics, the machine could achieve the creative function it now lacks. Thus, it is conceivable the machine could invent an item or develop a thought well beyond man's creative limits. 
The final determining force unfortunately is man's selective programming into the machine. Will man thus fear the power of the machine? Will computers be developed to their fullest potential, and allowed to function? More important, will business accept the apparent philosophical implications of a machine having better talents than man? 
Yours sincerely,
ItAfl) ,;tfdy 

Arnold Shelby 
Latin American Studies. Tulane 
Mr. Galvin: 

\\rill llt•JI l~·ltt• tilt•
t•c,,,Tt•t· C)(• tilt• r"l1 11 iII kiIIA 


lllt(•IJ iIJ(• ·? 


IS ANYBODY LISTENING society . .. and from their perspective TO CAMPUS VIEWS 7 as heads of major corporations are exchanging views through means of''.Wh'£1 a campus /corporate Dialogue 
BUSINESSMEN ARE. 
Program on specific issues raised byThree chief executive officers-The leading student spokesmen.Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company's Chairman, Russell De Young, The Dow Here, Arnold Shelby, in Liberal Arts at Chemical Company's President. Tulane. is exploring a point with Mr. H D. Doan, and Motorola's Galvin. Keenly interested in Latin Chairman. Robert W. Galvin-are American political and social responding to serious questions and problems. Mr. Shelby toured various viewpoints posed by students about countries in the area last summer on business and its role in our changing a "shoe-string" budget. He plans a 
Dear Mr. Shelby: 

Why should man fear the 
machine? It's a tool for the 
elimination of drudgery ... 
for freeing people from limiting 
routine. Each more sophisticated 
application opens another door 
to exciting new functions for 
the individual. 

As to business' acceptance of the apparent philosophical implica­tions of a machine being better talented than man, let's expand your question to include society as a whole. Your suggested potential of the machine's inventiveness, after all, would not only affect the structure of business and its practices but the role of the individual in every institution of the com­munity education. government, the professions, in fact. man's day to day living environment. Already many of these changes have been manifest. 
Think of the brigades of bookkeepers trapped through the years into peering from under their green eyeshades at mounting columns of figures. With perfection of the adding machine and comptometer, their working world assumed a whole new dimension. No more scratching out monthly statements with a steel-tipped pen. Instead, many have assumed functionally more interesting responsibilities by applying the skills, and wider knowledge, needed to use these tools. As a result, the individual gained more capabilities, and industry, more capacity. 
The computer has broadened the horizon much further. With its characteristic abilities for sensing, feedback, and self-adjustment-the determination of changing requirements without human intervention masses of data can be digested and analyzed, and complex calculations made, to meet the needs for which it is programmed. 
Its applications already have had a profound effect on almost every phase of our daily lives. Look, for example, at its employment in teaching: programmed lesson plans in a dozen subjects that permit student responses, and instant correction of errors, which enable uninterrupted progress to the extent of each individual's capacity. And the day is not far off when many university libraries will be linked together in a vast information retrieval system. A question fed into a machine by you at Tulane may elicit needed data from memory locks at Cornell, or Northwestern, or Stanford. 
career in journalism. 
In the course of the entire Dialogue Program. Arthur Klebanoff. a Yale senior. will probe issues with Mr. Galvm_: as wt/1 Mark Bookspan. a Chemtstry majorat Ohio State. and 
Its uses in long-range economic policy planning by government and business are infinite. A projection of population growth concentrations five years ahead, or twenty, will make possible realistic plans for food requirements, or housing starts, or highway construction programs, or the thousands upon thousands of goods and services requisite for further up-grading our living standards. 
And what about the computerized services touching all of us that already are taken for granted: programming traffic lights to cope with rush-hour congestion ... reconciliation of monthly bank statements ... processing individual income tax returns ... even notifications from insurance companies when premiums are due. 

All of this is part of the increasingly fast-paced tempo of our times. Man now demands "more", and he demands it "faster." This poses requirements best met by wider usages of computers, and in turn prompts the need for computers with increasingly sophisticated characteristics to keep pace. 
The point is that the philosophic 
implications arising from the 
economic and social 
consequences of computer 
complexes already has been 
accepted by society. 
Paradoxically. as computerized functions broaden. job losses don't necessarily follow. To the contrary, new fields of employment open, and people directly affected acquire new skills and abilities which improve their earning capacities-to the extent that each utilizes the opportunities proffered. Isn't this a capsulated instance of the force-drive for progress, and man's growth? 
No one really knows to what exotic limits computers can be developed. The day may well come when "creative thought" is a characteristic. But I am confident that during the intermediate evolutionary steps, man's own intellectual sophistication will continue to outpace the machine. and assure control over a product of his own making. Certainly there's no real cause for worry, however, until the machine learns how to plug itself in. 
Sincerely//_ ~ 
~tJ. 

Robert W. Galvin Chairman, Motorola Inc. 
All of these Dialogues will appear in 

this publication. and other campus newspapers across the country, throughout this academic year. Campus comments are invited and should be forwarded to Mr. DeYoung. Goodyear. Akron. Ohio; 
Davtd G. Cl~rk, Ill graduate studies at Mr. Doan. Dow Chemical. Midland. S_tanford. With Mr. DeYoung; an~ Michigan; or Mr. Galvin, Motorola, stmtlarly, David_M._ Butler. Electncal Franklin Park. Illinois. as appropriate. 
Engmeermg, Miclngan State. and Stan Chess. Journalism. Cornell, with Mr. Doan. 

-
.. 


THE OBSERfJER. THURSDAY, APRIL 24, 1969
PAGE4 

Steinberg: 'Racism is ,~,~h~n~,!~,~~ 
David Steinberg, an NSA member in the field of racism, added a new emphasis and greater depth to the problem of racism in America as he ad­dressed an attentive audience last night in Moreau Hall. 
Starting with the assertion that "racism is as American as apple pie" he formed a directive of analyzation stating that the real question is not whether one particular person is or is not a racist but the broader aspect of the "serious values and language of our culture and society that have become innundated by ra­cism." 
He felt the present analyza­tion of the condition of Ameri­cans infested with racism was 
STARTS FRIDAY 
..:tlllldU.1110NDMMIII 

B(llE 

J dE 
OUR 
WINH!"" BI.Sl Pl\:lURf 

Short: Fabulous Canada Daily-7:00, 9:20 Sun-From 1:00 





CJlrne is 

GJWnning

Out... 
Each minute you spend in indecision is a minute wasted ... a minute that adds up to an hour or a day that has vanished forever. 
That minute may have been spent as Paulists do, counsel­ing a questioning youth at a secular university, working in ghettos, saving a potential "dropout" or promoting bet­ter understanding of the Church and all religions. 
How do your minutes stack up? 
If you have given some thought to becoming a priest, why not find out how the Paulists spend their time and send for an illustrated bro­chure and a summary of the Paulist effort for renewal in the Church. 
Write to: 
Vocation Director 

'Paulist"~..

'Pat~1er$ 
Room 213 B 415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 

analogous to the mental patient who by himself never realizes or accepts his true condition and only attempts half-hearted or ineffectual cures but who needs someone else to diagnose his case and prescribe the correct treatment. 
Stating that the "bulk of ra­cism is in institutional form", he indicted the educational institu­tion as being a practitioner of racism. 
Warning that "racism is one of the major issues facing society today" and that if present trends continue our society will "crum­ble either into chaos or facism," he added ominously that "there are no magic pressure points to change." 
His prescribed treatment of "redesigning the curriculum 
away from an educational sys­tem based on the white middle class to an educational "environ­ment where black people arc appropriate." 
He considered the addition of more black students, black teachers, and black courses as being important but as a dan­gerous stopping point which too often masked society as the real cancer of racism and which be­came "steps backwards instead of forwards." 
Steinberg felt that if Notre Dame wanted to make a true commitment to the eradication of' racism an appropriate re­sponse would be 2% of all her resources dedicated to nothing but the elimination of racism. "This would be a whale of a lot of resources." 

The Student Traveler Abroad 
prepared by the United States National Student Association 
Tells you how to get there, what to do, how much it will cost, and how you can do it for less ... it's the official source book for over one million students in more than 300 colleges and universities.
* 
more comprehensive than ever before ... completely up-to-date

* 
more detailed information on Australia and Japan 

* 
a completely new section on Africa

* 
information on every important city, country, and continent to which an American student is allowed to travel 


at your college bookslore or use coupon: 


r--------------------------,
1 • ._,. GROSSET & DUNLAP, INC. I 
••• 51 Madison Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10010 1
I Gentlemen:
I Please send me-------· copy(ies) of THE STUDENT TRAVELER I
1ABROAD at $2.50 per copy. 1 
I Name I I Address I I City____ _ State Zip ____ I 
L--------------------------~ 




Itonly tastes
•

ex enstve 


Tom Ehrbar 

The War Watchers 

.........,......................... 
I received a letter from my good friend (and protege) Charley, 
yesterday. Besides 116 St. Joseph Bank statements issued on no 
account of my own, a rejection slip from Mad Magazine which read 
"What do you think we are-mad?", and several viciously sarcastic 
"Tell it t~ Tommy's", it was the first piece of personal mail plopped 
into my mail-box since Christmas. 
So 1 was particularly pleased that good ol' Charley had dropped 
me a line. All my other correspondents have simply dropped me. 
Charley, believe it or not, is a brilliant student, as shrewd as they 
come. And while he'll be graduating foam high school this June with 
an outstanding record, he just doesn't know where to turn. You see, 
Charley wants to go to college; he also wants to become a military 
officer s0meday. And the two don't really seem to go hand-in-hand 
in toda y's world of the enlightened liberal. It is a bit of a problem; I 
certainly don't know of any solution. , 
Just the other night 1 was watching CBS News (which has smothered its share of Tom, Dick, and radical Hairy's.) The show was some kind of a 3 hour "special" describing the patterned anihilation of ROTC units on campuses across the nation. I sat there, my eyes glued to the tube ... 
HOSTILITIES AT HARVARD-Students here continue to surround 
the Administration Building after eight days of intense conflict. An 
occasional shout of "end the killing, end ROTC" breaks the eerie 
pause of silence between the bursts of motor shell lobbed up from 
the rear. The shells have exploded sporadically throughout the night, 
and the Boston sky burns a bright shade of orange and red. 
One particularly bold student, in a fit of pacifistic frenzy, flipped one grenade after another at the ROTC Building, until a helmeted policeman escorted him from the scene. 
Both sides are now holding firm, and rumors of escalation have 
taken an air of credibility. One administration spokesman said 
"There is no relief in sight. We're in this mess now, and we can't just 
pull out. We have the Harvard reputation to think of." 
COLLISION AT COLUMBIA A unique plan to crumble the ROTC Military-Industrial complex has arisen from an SDS general meeting here at Columbia. The students hope to establish an Anti-ROTC unit on every American college campus. Hopefully these units will be fully accredited, thus endowed with a certain weight of respectability. One SDS leader said "This is as much a war as that crap over in Vietnam." 

A buddy of his mentioned the high level of organization anticipated to keep an operation as massive as Anti-ROTC rolling smoothly. Reluctantly he admitted, "To assure some sort of flexibility, we will probably assort ourselves into various patrols, squadrons, companies, etc. Of course, a little discipline will also be helpful, but proven leaders should immediately come to the fore. We'll set up a rigorous training program drills in lying-down and throw-and-run harassment tactics discussed in the classroom. Also, so that Anti-ROTC people can be universally recognized, we'll probably issue standard uniforms, perhaps in Navy-blue. A flag and motto aren't a bad idea either." 
CONFLICT AT CHICAGO Here in the middlewest war zone the fighting carries on, with casualties steadily mounting on both sides. While a bombing halt and cease-fire arc anticipated over the summer vacation when college students return to their homes and loved ones: the real war, the war of fear and mistrust, has no end in sight. The radicals continue to cling to a belief, which some consider naive, that unless ROTC is contained on the campus, it will diffuse into the mainstream of American life. "We must stop ROTC now", one bearded and sandeled spokesman said, "otherwise the whole country will fall like a stack of dominoes. Furthermore, and I find this preposterous in a land of democracy, why hasn't congress declared an official war. We have touched off as much violence as anyone." 
BACKFIRE AT BERKELY-There isn't much left of this once 
beautiful campus anymore. Where gardens and trees once blossomed 
in dazzling array, now there is only scattered debris and smoldering 
fires. Berkely, as we once knew and loved her, is no more. One 
elderly gentleman stro I ling through the waste, muttered through 
clenched teeth, "War is Hell." That sums it up precisely. 
SEMANTICS AT SAN FRANCISCO Peace talks go on and on and 
on here in this old gracious city. The moan of guns, and the buzz of 
planes are heard far in the distance, as the war enters its third month 
out at sea. 
Neither delegation, those of ROTC or of the SDS, is yet willing to 
admit to a compromise, neither will yield its demands. There is only 
the tinkling of cocktail glasses and the chatter of empty rhetoric. 
The UN is waiting if called for mediation. And the government of 
South Vietnam may be invited to assist in an "advisory capacity." 
One final note a peace movement is now beginning to emerge from 
the Pentagon. 
And so the war goes un . .. stay tuned to CBS News for further deJ•elopments where1•er and whenever they happen. 
Now, the World of' Sports takes you to Notre Dame, Indiana 
where the Fighting Irish are colcluding another session of spring 
football practice ... 
What can I tell Charley? 




