THE WORLD TODAY 

Nixon stresses unity among US allies 
BONN (UPI) -President Nixon, in an historic address to the West German parliament, urged America's European allies yesterday not to abandon the Atlantic alliance on the eve of critical negotiations he intends to open with the Soviet Union. 
E 




OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame tmd St. M4TY 's College Community 
VOL. Ill, NO. 89 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1969 
Nixon, who flew to West Germany from London on the third leg of his European tour, spoke after winning assurance that Chancellor 
Joyce squelches 'Vaciline';
Kurt Georg-K iesinger had "full confidence" in his conduct of forthcoming talks with Russia. The U.S. President, after receiving the most enthusiastic welcome of his trip so far, spoke for 14 minutes to the Bonn parliament. It 
Raises question of its decency 
was the first time in its 20-year history the parliament had granted a 
by David Lammers to print their material" the when he contacted Campus Press foreign hea -of-state the right to speak to it. 
Reverend Edmund P. Joyce, university authorities cannot they told him that the magazine Executive Vice-President and ignore the legal responsibilities had already been sent to 
actin President of the which might arise from the Multi-Graph for binding.
Draft overhaul proposed by Kennedy 
pubI i shing of the magazine Rembush and Student Body under Student Union Auspices. President Richard Rossie then WASIIINGTON (UPI) -Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, (D. Mass.), 
A subcommittee set up by the called an emergency meeting of yesterday proposed a major overhaul of the draft and called for a 
Student Life Council last week the Union Board of Directors tostudy of amnesty for those who fled the country to avojr,l induction. 
to consider the question of discuss the legality of Father But Kennedy said the draft cannot now be abandoned because an publishing the magazine on Joyce's order to ceaseall-volunteer Army "is simply not realistic policy for the immediate campus passed the decision on publication.
future." 
to the Student Union Board of Rossie said that during the"It's way down the road," Kennedy said and warned ending the 
Directors. The Board approved meeting he spoke with Phillipdraft could lead to "an all-black Army fighting white middle-class publication by a vote of 4-2. Faccenda, special Assistant to
wars." Student UnionPress and the President and was told that Publishing printed the magazine the student publications policy 

Morton selected new GOP chairman 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -President Nixon ended a political 
Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C.
tug-of-war yesterday by selecting Rep. Rogers C.B. Morton of 
University in the absence of
Maryland, his floor manager at the Miami Beach convention, as the 
Father Hesburgh issued a letter
new Republican national chairman. 
yesterday to Richard Rembusch,
Morton thus emerged the victor in an internal party controversy HOTAND COLD .APPUllDALTEIINATKLY-mcnamara .t 
Student Union President,
over a White I louse plan to install Murray Chotiner, an old Nixon 
witholding permission to publish FACK OF LIES· _.....____.......---·-··....-...-....·nx;namara· :1
political ally from California, as deputy committee chairman in 
a proposed student magazine,
actual charge of the national GOP organization and staff. 
POEMS ··-··--··-···· ....................................·-cecil · 6.
Vaciline.

The appointment constitutes the first time that brothers have held 
In his letter, Johce said that
the chairmanship of a political party's national committee. Morton's 
FERTILE CRESCENT--............-................-.....hynes·--..·6.
"serious questions can be raised
older brother, former Sen. Thruston B. Morton of Kentucky, was 
about the inherent decency of
Republican national chairman in 1959-6I. ADVERSAB.JA-------···..·--·---·.....-....-.-....-··hynes··.. 9.
the material". "I would direct you, MUSICALINTERLUJJE ····· _.. ___ --·· 11taff........ m
Fifth A venue blaze claims nine lives therefore," the letter said, "to cease printing the material on STAFF 4-o GROYING ON lmS--... ---...... ······· reyno1a.--1~
NEW YORK (UPI) -Martin Cuniff ignored flames and scaring the student press until such time heat so intense they melted his fireman's .helmet over his ears. as further approval is indicated." ka.thyct£il *ao11.h~ ID\OTIC IUllLE 3CULPTUPJ\ IN NUAb:mJtCarry-16 
Nine persons perished and seven others were gravely injured just The Joyce letter said that before quitting time yesterday when a flash fire fed by highly because of the "problems the tim~*marly ~~W!Mc~;~~~~~~~~\W~~ flammable liquid glue raced through a five-story marble and granite student publishers, Donald 
InCnal!l2l'a *shaun reynold.&* serving the Nc>tre Dame community Jt
office building on Fifth Avenue and 48th Street in Manhattan. Hynes and Martin McNamara, Fire officials indicated the foot of a man who collapsed from the have had in obtaining an agency Title page of banned magazine heat prevented the door of a third-floor elevator from closing. 
and the material was delivered to as stated in the student manualSeveral perished in the elevator. 
New assembly the Multi-Graph Co. of South was invalid because it had not Bend for binding. been approved by the Faculty

established

Communists escape during night Union President Rembus1 Senate and by the Academic at Saint Mary's said that he was contacted by Council of the university. Rossie by Ann Conway telephone by Father Joyce said that he was told by
SAIGON (UPI)-Communist troops early today quietly abandoned yesterday morning and was 
Facccnda that since the facilities directed to cease publication ofthe rubble of two villages they had captured and successfully Last night at one of its weekly 
defended for almost 24 hours against massive Allied infantry and meetings, the St. Mary's Student of the University were used in 
the magazine. Rembush said that the printing of the magazine any

tank assaults. Legislature abolished itself. A 
(continued on pg. 2)

South Vietnamese troops at dawn reoccupied Don Lach and flo new \}ody, the Student Nai outside the giant U.S. air base at Bien lloa near Saigon. They Assembly, was established to found no resistance. take its place. 

Grad student deferred 
Military spokesmen said the communists apparently slipped away A bill was su~initted and read Earlier this week, Supreme precedent that will possibly during the night despite the fact that Allied forces had surrounded by Beth Driscoll, a junior, and Court Justice Potter Stewart allow second year law students the villages to prevent such a withdrawal. after an hour and a half of temporarily blocked the to complete their third year, 
At least 130 communists were killed in fierce fighting against discussion, the bill was accepted. induction of four graduate next year, before being drafted. Allied attacks to recapture the villages yesterday, spokesmen said. A cover letter explaining Miss students into the Armed Forces. The Draft Law of 1967 Another 50 were captured. Allied casualties were described as light. Driscoll's theory behind the bill 0 n e of the students was authorizes the President to 
Communist casualties were expected to raise as cleanup work was also submitted. Theodore Kaplysh, a second determine the draft status of began to clear away the rubble of the villages, both which were In this letter she explained year law student at Notre Dame graduate students. The policy, leveled in the fighting. that the legislature power has and a prefect in Howard Hall. before it was amended last year, 
The two villages were on the eastern edge of theBien Hoa air base, "moved outside of the realm of Kaplysh, who is currently was to defer students who the world's busiest airfield, and housed about I ,000 persons, most of solely student concern to the classified as 1-S, has received maintained good grades. them dependents of South Vietnamese soldiers. Most of the villagers realm of community concern. four draft notices since last 
Kaplysh said that if his board fled when the communists attacked and captured the villages early This change has considerably November. The Selective Service 
inducts him anyway he will 

yesterday. weakened the power and Act provides that students submit to induction. 
position of the board." classified 1-S "are defferred by "It will cause me undue This movement, a shift from a Jaw until ... the end of their hardship to interrupt my studies class centered basis of power to academic year at a college or
Sirhan prefers death to present trial at this midpoint, though,"he
the hall, makes it pointless for a university." 
said. 

legislative body operating After receiving his induction General Lewis B. Hersey,
LOS ANGELES (UPI)-Sirhan B. Sirhan is willing to plead guilty outside the Community to exist. notice in November Kaplysh Director of Selective Service,
to the murder of Sen. Robert F. Kennedy and die in the gas chamber Miss Driscoll suggested appealed his case. Stewart rather than proceed with his present trial. changing the structure as well as blacked his induction and now issued a memorandum this year 
fostering a different

The 24 year old Arab exploded in anger in the courtroom the functional capacity of the K a pI ysh 's local board must interpretation. He stated that
yesterday at presentation of notes in which he wrote that Kennedy body. reconsider the case. "must die like his brother." The following structural and The ruling is the first of its every graduate student, regardless of class, is susceptible
Sirhan stood up and shouted and had to be shoved to his seat functional reforms suggested by nature and the outcome may to the draft. Justice Steward in
twice by bailiffs when the prosecution presented the diaries in which Miss Driscoll were passed: have an ultimate effect on every his ruling stated that he believed
he had scribbled ... over and over again that "RFK must die." I) Resolved that the Campus student doing graduate work. If 
Sirhan told Superior Court Judge Herbert V. Walker in private Legislature be abolished and a the stay of induction allows that Hersey was interpreting the chambers that he would rather die "than have people think I am Student Assembly be established Kaplysh to finish this year at law as a matter of his own getting a fair trial." in its stead. Notre Dame it will set a discretion. 

~-A_GE__2 ________ -----------------------------------·~T,~}{£~~-0~B~S~~~~RV~~~~~-------------------------TH_U_R_s_o_A_Y_,_FE_B_R_U_A_R_Y_2_7,~1_9_69_ 


Three more juniors now in contest for SBP 
and students I feel no substantial denominator among the rule of true freedom," Sloan and responsibility." 
The race for Student Body 
changes are necessary." dissident factions. He stands said. Smith also attempted to set
President became even more 
Apt feels that " ... the varied unalterably opposed to the Sloan is also an Arts and himself off from the other
crowded yesterday when three 
opportunities for real personal current sterile outmoded Letters Junior. candidates. He set himself up as 
more hopefuls announced. The 
progress on both the social and structures and wishes to In announcing his candidacy the candidate who would " ... fill 
three are Joe Shadwell, AI Apt, 
academic levels provided by the establish a new order based on Kevin Smith stated that " ... our the void. that exists between
and Kevin Smith. All three are 
university ... are adequate though the principles of enlightened candidacy is a call for student power oriented candidates and
Arts and Letters Juniors. 
certain leftists can't cope within anarchy." involvement. Notre Dame does the students." 
In a prepared statement Apt 
normal functions." According to his campaign not belong to those who are Smith also stated that "Too
indicated that his main thoughts 
Apt's running mate is Duff manager, Shadwell feels that " ... content with today and many candidates, in their quest 
were on the channels of communications in the University. He said that "Due to the excellent dialogue in the community between the administration and the faculty 
the community has isolated the apathetic toward common for personal achievement, ignore students from all relevant problems." the student body while vying for the support of various enclaves
issues." In enumerating his approach 
of influence., Rather than

Shadwell was confined to the to this problem Smith stated: infirmary and unavailable for "Involvement is the key to reflecting the interests and view-points of the students, they 
comment. However his running personal and social fulfillment. 
mate, 1ohn Sloan issued a While the existing power redefine the issues in terms of their personal feelings ... This is
statement. strw;:ture has condescendingly 
"I have seen the retrogression unacceptable to the majority of
allowed the student body to of the individual for too long. I genuflect before it, we will Notre Dame students." will no longer stand by-the attempt to infuse in the students Smith's running mate is Gene Ritzenthaler, a junior
hierarchv shall perish under the a sense of concern. oarticioation. 
'Vaciline' is squelched by Joyce 
Holahan, also an Arts and Letters junior. 
Joe Shadwell's campaign manager, in announcing for him, stated, "We believe that Mr. Shadwell represents the common 

PEACE CORPS 
Got a minute? Got two years?? 
3ee the Peace Corps representative and find out how you can help. 
Library Corridor this week Language testing Wed. and Fri. 
(continued from page 1) 
legal action brought because of it could force the university to assume liability. 
The Board decided to submit 


JOIN SCRIPTO PEN's MYSTERY TOUR OF EUROPE FOR A MONTH ­ND T A ICE A CHANCE ON THIS POLAROID 

When You Purchase Your Own Scrip to Pen At The Bookstore, The Cashier Will Give You A Lucky Nimber Which Could Be The One Drawn On March 10. Be SureTo Purchase Your Scripto Pen And Also Enter The: 
SCRIPTO MYSTERY TOUR 
You have nothing to lose. And everything to gain. Just send in your Mystery Tour entry blank. 10 Lucky Gals and 10 Lucky Guys will tour Europe-together-like it's never been toured before, Four weeks of joy and ecstacy. In Europe's grooviest cities. You start in London-the rest is a mystery. Only the bus driver knows the way. Bistros by night. Beaches by day. Scripta will wine you and dine you ... all for the price of a juicy Scripto pen. 

A vail able at the Notre Dame Hammes Bookstore 
the matter to the Student Life rights." McNamara said that 
Council for adjudication as soon they have handed their case over 
as possible. Father Joyce, in his to an attorney from the 
letter, said that this was also his american Civil Liberties Union. 
intention. Student rmhlishers of When asked if tye knew who had 
Vaciline, Hynes and McNamara, the magazine both Father Joyce said that they did not know in and the manager of the whose possession the magazine 
M u I ti-Graph Co. refused to was. Hynes said that the action 
comment. Father Joyce also by Father Joyce was "the refused to make a statement seizure of private property and 
when asked if he had read the an obvious violation of my civil 
magazine. 



SMC student assembly 
(continued from page 1} 
2) Resolved that the Student Assembly be composed of hall representatives in a ratio of one representative per I00 students. An amendment was passed adding two seats for freshmen representatives to be filled at the time of freshmen elections. 
3) Resolved that the executive board be abolished. 
4) Resolved that two seats on the Student Affairs Committee be allocated to the 


EARN $50-$100 IN YOUR SPARE TIME 
car required 
call Pete 233-5864 

DANCE 
ROTARY CONNECTION 
plus THE OLIVERS 
9-12 $2.50 
EDISON LIGHT 
Edison & Ivonwood 
1 mile East ofNotre Dame 


Feature Weekdays 6:45-9:20 Starts: Saturday 7:00-9:20 Sunday From 1:00 
Body President and Vice-President ant that the other eight seats be filled by students elected by the advisory board from its membership. 
It was also legislated that the following powers be delegated to the assembly: 
I) the power to make formal statements of recommendations regarding student opinion in both the academic and non-academic realms. 
2) the power to approve or veto any and all Student Government appointments with the exception of those in the judicial system, but not class or hall appointments. 
3) the power to recall any Student Advisory Board elections or appointments. 
4)  the  jurisdiction  over  
legislation  that  solely affects  
students.  

5) the power to settle any questions of jurisdiction within the student substructure of Community Government. 
6) the power to restructure the student substructure of Community Government. 
0 t her changes enacted included the abolition of hall senates, and it was. further resolved that assembly members cannot hold other offices by appointment or election. 
Passage of Miss Driscoll's bill was also held to be an acceptance of the cover letter. 
Another amendment was passed stating that all meetings of the student assembly would be open. 
One motion was defeated. This provision stated that the Academic Affairs commissioner would sit on the Student Assembly in a voting capacity solely when an academic question is being considered. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1969 
THE OBSERVER 





THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Refined procedures 
"Acting chief executive of the University" Father Joyce, in Father 1/esburgh 's stead. in a letter to Student Union President Richard Rembusch, refitsed "permission to tmblish the proposed magazine, Vaceline (sic), on the Notre Dame campus pending refinement of procedures to handle such publications. " 
In so doing, Joyce violated the constitutional rights of those who authored the magazine, since permission to print the magazine had been granted previously and the material had been, in fact, already printed. What Joyce succeeded in doing was to prevent its distribution and thus the free exwession guaranteed not only by the United States Constitution, but also the Student Manual. 
Convenient(v yesterday afternoon Mr. Phillip Faccenda speaking for Father Joyce told Stlldent Body President Richard Rossie that he thought the Student Manual was invalid since it was not approved by 11ze Facult_v Senate of the Academic Council despite the fact that the manual was endorsed bv someone named Hesburgh. 
Joyce made his decision "in view of serious question" raised by one South Bend printer, who refused to print the magazine, which incidentallv is correctly titled "Vaciline." Apparently Joyce holds the opinion o/ one printer to be of more weight than father McCarragher, a University vice wesident, a tri-partite sub-committee of the Student Life Council, and the Student Union Board of Directors which includes McCarragher, lawyer and professor John /Iouck, Rembusch, Rossie, his vice president Nau and student Edward Davey. 
The Union Board viewed the contents of the magazine and voted 4-2 to permit its printing. Joyce has yet to admit that he has even seen the offending material. We can answer the "serious questions" Father Joyce raises "about the inherent decency of the material" found in "Vaciline" and assert that the content of ·· Vaciline" is no more objectionable than issues of the JUGGLER over the past three years. (Strange would be the mind finding the JUGGLER objectionable.) It might be noted that this latter fJUblication is officially published and totally financed by the 
Universitl'. 
Until .Father Joyce replaces his "No Comment" answer to all of yesterday's questions with an admission that he has seen the magazine ami that his apparent conclusion that the magazine is obscene is based on legal rather than narrow fJersonal value judgements, we can only conclude that he is suffering from fJOmograf!hic paranoia. 
The situation is, clearly, that Joyce simply exercised his own arbitrary will and overrode the institutions created to handle such a magazine. 
lie not only violated the constitutional rights of the editors but he also broke the contract they had with the Union Board. 
For the second time in the past two weeks the University administration has ignored presiding structures in making [Jrolwuncements on issues it feels are important enough. This time it has even oJ!erriden the ~~ice president ofjurisdiction. 
We can onlv be astounded b v Joyce's action and urgently hope that the error is l:orrected immedidte(v, and if not, that just retribution is rendered, perhaps by a court of law. 



Kay Markle 
The Split 
lf the shattering student protests of the late 1960's have any general sociological significance, it must be the monumental split they have created between two segments of the same generation--the students vs. the non-students. It is obvious enough, and not too disconcerting, that student activities, especially the more violently iconoclastic varieties, would alienate the comfortably settled parts of society. What is less obvious, and possibly more ominous, is that the 18-25-year group is dividing as well, along the same stress lines. The rioting at the University of Wisconsin, during which hundreds of young men were called upon by the governor to restore order among hundreds of other equally young men is perfectly illustrative. The boys in the reserve units were, in effect, asked to become surrogate parents of the boys on the campus-a sort of vastly elevated sibling rivalry, encouraged by the real parents who don't quite know what to do with their kids anymore. 
The radicalism pushing for change at universities and in government and all the other stagnant areas so abundant in American life is polarizing attitudes in a generation that can't afford the luxury of internal dissent. Non-students arc seeing kids as just that--kids: rebellious, irresponsible, destructive, greedy, selfish and eminently untrustworthy. The students have their own myopia, as they come to believe that they are the only ones with sufficient guts, intelligence and sensitivity to resist becoming cogs in the old materialism machine. Grudgingly mixed in with the militants arc the students who don't like being labelled radicals because they're not, who resent the radicals and fight bitterly with them on horne ground, while in public they either sullenly defend or deride them, earning a good measure of the militants' contempt. They are neither wanted by the radicals nor liked by the non-stl'rients, for their scruples alienated them from the former, their status from the latter. Their adjustment can only be described as schizoid. 
In the next twenty and more years the misconceptions, distrust and scorn being created now are going to stand no one in good stead. The students are inevitably going to end up in positions of influence--which is, presumably, why they bother to be students at all. And working for them, reading them, voting for them, being taught and doctored and managed and planned for by them, are going to be all the non-students who learned quite early that college people are intellectual traitors who caused all the trouble back when they were growing up. It is inevitable that there will be a residue of arrogance on the one hand and suspcicion on the other. 
Students work like hell to communicate with the migrant workers and the blacks. Isn't it nearing the last possible moment when they can still communicate with the people they are going to have to live with for the rest of their lives? 
Mary Michael Farnum, Senior Editor Paul Schroeder, Executive Editor Don Holliday, Managing Editor Guy DeSapio, News Editor David Stauffer, Copy Editor 
Associate Editors Betty Doerr, Chris Wolfe, Michael Patrick O'Connor, Don Hynes, Tom Ehrbar, Tim O'Meilia, Ted Price, Kay Markle 
NIGHT EDITORS CARTOONISTS 
Clifford Wintrode Shaun Reynolds Phil Bosco 
Kim Kristoff 

THE OBSERVER 

NEWS 
Dave Bach Bruce Bowles Ann Conway Glenn Corso Dave Fromm Martin Graham Laura Haferd John Haley Bill Holley Chuck Jackson Dan Koehler Dave Lammers Bill Markle Rich Mize Mike Mooney 
P.J. Moran t'am Carey STAFF 

Phil Novak Jim Prisby Jim Raley Phil Schatz Bob Schueler John Simone Gary Stofick Jeanne Sweeney Mike Van Remortel 
Mary Fahey_ Fran Nolan Addid Stepanic Sally Gildea 
-Bernadine Connolly Susan Orloski Carol White Janice Williams 

LAYOUT STAFF BUSINESS STAFF 
Hank Bell, Editor Nancy Erdman Jim Flanagan Steve Dollinger Mary Beth Crimmins Sue Bourdin Chuck Darst Gregory Raih Don Kennedy Paul Godbout 
Patty Lipscomb Bruce Barker 
John Sellinger Tim Monty Tom Schreck Claudio Cerulli Tom Cashore 
Gary Comito, Advertising Manager Edward Schreck, Subscfiptions Manager James Schumaker, Circulation Manager 

PAGE4------------------------------------------~~uJl~£~Q~1if.~~~R~v.~~~~DL-------------------------T~H~U~R~S~D=A~Y,~F~E~B~R~U=A~RY~2~7.~1~96=9 

ND students: Lucky 
Editor: 
Do you students there at Notre Dame ever stop and realize how lucky you are? . 
I can see protests, demonstrations and booing their own basketball team at other Universities, but not at Notre Dame. 
If you students were with me and had turned fifty years of age today, the 19th of February, 1969, I'm sure you would all stop and realize what a lucky lot you are. 
I will always go through life with the wish that I could have at tended that wonderful University. Since I have been out of the service after World War II and have been graced by God with a fine family and job, I've been on that beautiful campus of yours at least fifteen times. I will a! ways look at your beautiful university with a look of admiration. I sure hope you students will stop and realize Notre Dame is not N.Y.U., California, Kentucky or any other university but the great university it is and please, I beg of you to keep it that way. 
If the urge ever comes to protest, demonstrate or boo at any athletic event, I hope you will walk that beautiful tree-lined campus toward the beautiful Sacred Heart Church and regardless of your faith, stop in and say a prayer of thanks for your great opportunity of being able to attend such a wonderful school. 
I might add you students can also offer a prayer that my twelve year old son may have the mentality, grades and the opportunity to attend Notre Dame some day. 
I'm for all you young students all the way and hope you will lead our country in the future. But please stop and listen to your great president, as you are lucky and have a wonderful school and opportunity. 
Sincerely, Robert J. Serey 
820 Montgomery Ave. 
Ashland, Kentucky 
Uust an old steelworker and 
Notre Dame backer-all the way.) 
Hysterical answers 
Editor: 
Don Hynes column on Father Hesburgh's letter has provoked an incredible chain reaction of hysterical answers. Those who accuse him of having been "angry" or "emotional" react exactly in the same way: they attack the form of the letter but nobody discusses its content. What I cannot accept is the systematic "moral lynching" of Mr. Hynes by students and fac­ulty as well. If reason still has a place in this University, let's use it. 

The main thesis of that col­umn was that Father Hesburgh's letter was self-contradictory. WhiI e expressing a warning against pressures external to the academic world, that letter (des­pite the opening editorial of yesterday's New York Times) was nothing less that the execu­tion of pressures external to this University: Alumni, Summa, South Bend. Who would contra­dict that thesis? 
The collateral thesis was that 

the Administration does not belong to the learning process of the University. If there are people who can contradict this opinion, let us hear from them . . . but please, friends, show me how many cultural or religious insights have you gotten from, say, Father McCarragher. 
Certainly Don was not mod­erate and definitely he should have avoided writing down things that the academic savoir faire allows only to be taught. His column was passionate and violent, but at least showed a genuine interest for the Univer­sity. But if a student can be permitted to be intemperat, it is very sad to see the same reaction from the faculty. I have read letters that attacked the person, his happiness, his motivation, his mental equilibrium. And why? Because he was guilty of a crime of lese-majesty. I don't agree with the form of that column. Probably Tom Erbhar's wit would have helped, but I think that the content was right and well-defended. Father Hes­burgh's letter was not justified by the circumstances. It was certainly a marvelous political move, worthy of the best intui­tions of my compatriot Machiavelli: it gave the nation the false impression that Notre Dame was on the verge of a revolution and at the same time satisfied people's desire of sta­bility by tranquilizing them with the ever suggestive assurance of the "tough line". It created a case and solved it at the same time. It was just a parenthesis, as Don said, of self-indulgency with overt political and economic goals. What that letter hopefully did not calculate was that it would have radicalized divisions and frustration on the Campus, rather than pacify them. 

But the most disturbing result of that letter is that Father Hesburgh goes on reaping the harvest whose seeds others have sown. Other Presidents had trouble; other campuses had riots and violence; Father Hesburgh reaps the fruits. With­out the smallest effort on his own he is now the "defensor civitatis." But after all, isn't it true that "one sows and another reaps" (John 4: 38)? 
His letter finally reached the Olympus when even President Nixon endorsed it. And thank God, Nixon's letter gives the statement its highest recognition and its final sense: it will be turned to Vice-President Agnew. At last the right man for the right letter. 
(Dr.) Mario Corradi 
Department of Philosophy 
Deserting reality? 
Editor: 

Professor Duffy in his letter on Friday lines up a cast of characters which I am sure he would not tolerate in one of the 

SUAC 
&. 

The South Bend Community 
Present a 
COMMUNITY FORUM ON BLACK POWER 
March 16-20 
Adam Clayton Powell 
(Democratic Representative frbm Harlem I 
Andrew Hatcher 
(Presidential Candidate of the Peace and Freedom PartyI 
James Farmer 
(Under Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfarel 
Charles Evers 
(Chairman of the Miss. Freedom Partyl 
Seminars Discussions Films: (I) Negro and the American Promise 
(2) 
The New Mood 

(3) 
Messenger from Violet Drive 

(
4) and others 



Ticket Sales in the Dining Halls: 
Thursday & Friday 5:15-6:30 pm 
Student Forum Pass $2 Adult Forum Pass$3 
novels he teaches. The professors sensible" and had for supporting are described as displaying "pat­cast "dingy bigots" and a "seedy ience, sympathetic imagination . militia." . . trustworthiness . . . courage, Isn't this "deserting reality" generosity and candor." On the for a "heaven of forms?" other hand the bad guys (viz. the Sincerely yours, Administration) "did nothing Frederick J. Crosson 

For your appl1cation form and further Information mail this request to: 
Mr. larry E. Toth 
Pennsylvania Department of Highways 
Bureau of Personnel 
Harrisburg, Pa. 17120 
NAME -----------------------------------------­ADDRESS ---------------------------------------­
DEGREE: B.S.__ M.S.__ FIELD: 








