

VOL. IV, No. Servin the Notre Dame and Saint M_ary 's College ('ommunity MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1969 
Bucher defends military intelligence miSSIOnS 
by Dave Fromm "The United States could not be the great country it is without maintenance of its military force," said Commander Lloyd Bucher addressing a capacity crowd yesterday afternoon in the library auditorium.  intelligence off the coast of countries which might prove hostile to the U.S. Bucher's ship was engaged in this type of activity off the North Korean coast in January of 1968. The Pueblo commander went on to outline the events leading up to and following the capture  already wounded," Bucher ex­plained. So he decided to let the communists come aboard. Bucher concluded that the North Koreans were merely looking for South Koreans plan­ning to infiltrate the North. He was convinced that they were unaware of the true nature of  said. Then abou·t noon on January 23, the Pueblo came .under harassment from four North Korean gun boats. As Bucher headed out to sea, the North Koreans commenced machine  gun and three-inch cannon fire. The captain then commanded emergency destruction of class­ified material. "I had heard that the North (continued on page 2)  
"The dedication of the people in the service is rather  of his ship by North Korea. Near the end of January,  the Pueblo's mission. "At no point was  I  stupid  
tremendous and people who knock the military establishment lend to ignore this fact.'" continued the former Captain on the i ntelligen~.:L' vessel USS Pueblo. Defending U.S. spy missions, Bucher said. "If we're going to he proteded, we must collect intelligL•nce. If you don't, you're shutting your eyes while the other guy's swinging at you." The Pueblo's mission was to L·olit'c t pniphcral ekdronic  Bucher was heading south along the North Korean coast. He felt that the mission was worthless sin~.:e he hadn't been able to collect any information. The ~.:old weather ~.:aused ice to form on the hull and brought about other problems as well. He in­tended to recommend that no future trips be made to the Eastern Sea of Japan in winter. "But by this time they were really hammering into us. A few of us. including myself. were  enough to go within their terri­torial waters. Whenever I wasn't sure of my exact position I would move twenty to forty miles out tb sea," Bucher said. He later determined that he was 16.8 miles offshore when the incident occurred. The North Koreans boarded the Pueblo and acwsed a num­ber of crew members of being South Korean. "They beat the tar out of anyone who even looked South Korean." Bucher  

Landry no longer coordinator 
executive ~.:oordinalor because his slack. 

by Cliff Wintrode he was "afraid I cannot be any­Landry commented on the 
Larry Landry Thursday an­thing ncar a ~.:ompctent execu­value of what he was doing in his nounced that in "all fairness to tivL' ~.:oordinator." outside activities. the student government and the 
Landry added that he felt the "I plan to continue my free

students." he could no longer 
position of executive coordina­lancing activities as I feel that Iremain as Student (iovernment tor was ne~.:essary, but that other am making progress toward aExecutive Coordinator. 

~.:abinet members had taken up better community," he said. Pat Gibbs
The decision was the result of Commander Lloyd Bucher spoke on the Pueblo incident. discussion and thought he­tween Landry and Student Body President Phil McKenna. It was emphasi1ed this process of "dia­

Theft of cornerstones played down by officials 
logm· and thought" between the two resulted in the mutual deci­
by Bill Carter aim of the students who pulled people who were good enough kind of dumb." Maybe since the
sion. 
off the robbery was to initiate a to give money to the University stones are gone we shouldn'tLandry said his decision was At the dedication of Flanner series of dem<1nds concerning for new dorms," he said. bother to get different ones butnot the result of displeasure with Hall Sunday morning no corner­food, laundry, and bookstore Whelan added that the theft just leave the dumbness there.
student government but a re~.:og­
stone was placed in the empty improvements and a rebate for made one point. Let the h.ole in the wall be amtion that he was not doing an spa~.:e in the wall facing the main the <lrace-Flanner residents. The "I think the whole thing-is 
(continued on page 2)

effective job in student govern­entrance. There was no corner­apparent blackmail tactic hingedment. 
stone to place in the wall be­on what they believed would be"It (my decision) is because cause the stones from both Flan­the irreplaceable value of theof the intensity and commit­ner and (;race Halls had been cornerstones.

ment of the dedicated indivi­stolen sometime last week. But "Actually the real, formal cor­duals working as a team, that I, the original program for the nerstones for both buildingsrealizing. that I am not an effec­dedication ceremony never in­were put in long ago when thetive cog in the functioning of cluded plans for the laying of halls first started going up. Whatthis org;mized drive towards a the cornerstone. 
was stolen was only a block withbl'ltcr l'Ommunity, have to ter­Jim Gibbons, who is in charge 

the year ~.:arved on it that was

m Ina tc my stay as execu live of the special L'vents for the supposed to be put in the wall
coordmator," Landry said. 
university, supervised the cere­near the door. But that wasLandry citt•d outside intert·sts 

lM
monies, whid1 centered around a never a part of the dedicationas the main theft of his lime dedication mass and the unveil­ceremony, so the theft didn'twhich prevented him from ing of the portrait of Mr. 

interfere with that at all." Fr.

"interacting very often" with Thomas Flanner painted by Whelan, Diredor of Housing,the cabinet members. 
Notre Dame art professor Stan­.who <1lso celebrated the mas.s

"My workings on the student ley Sesslor. 
was only slightly more disturbeddevelop men I program, under­(;ihbons said he received a by the loss of the stones. He alsograduate work studies. university phone call last Friday from emph~sit.ed the pointlessness of 1'::town rei a I ions. the urban insti­someone who wanted to know if the theft since the stones had Sltute, and the fum·tioning as the 

....
there were any plans for the C1)
nothing to do with the program,

chamber of commt·rl·e's research "0
laying of the cornerstone in the 1'::
but he fell the incident did saydirector have with a wonderful 

dedi~.:ation program. <r::
something about the charactergul friend and a taxing academic "I had not seen the letter in >

of those involved. o:l

s~.:hedule been my wncerns,'' he -.....,
the Obsen•er (I 0-31 issue) about 
"The thing is, all these things >said. 

the theft of the cornerstones, so they were talking about in that ~ Landry justified his decision I did not know then why the call letter have to do with money.

by arguing that it was better for 0 
was made. But I told him the The University is having some 5::him as an individual to pursue cornerstone laying was not in financial problems right now andhis present course of action the program," he said. 

then somebody pulls a stunt lik~.:

rather than trying to be a good As stated in their letter, the this to get even with some Father Whelan-"I think the whole thing is kind of dumb." 



I . 
• 
• Riehle explains Campus Judicial Board set-up 
by Jim Graif Rev. James L. Riehle, C.S.C., Dean of Students, explained yes­terday the methods which will be used in setting up the three Campus Judicial Boards for the  body. Student Body President Phil McKenna explained how these members would he chosen. McKenna, along with Judicial Coordinator c;ary Mcinerny, and assistant J lldicial Coordinator  He also explained the reason­ing behind the requirement that a student who commits an of­fense in a new hall after being kicked out of another hall for three offenses must be tried by the Student Judicial Board. Of­ ten a fourth offense could be grounds for dismissal from the university. The Hall Judicial Boards do not have the power to dismiss a student from the uni­vcrsity, however, so a student could conceivably bounce from  dorm to dorm over four years committing an almost unlimited number of offenses without wor­rying about dismissal. The Stu­dent Judicial Board does have the power of dismissal and thus can prevent such a situation.  
newly approved Judicial Code. The Judicial Svstem will con­tinue to consist of three boards: llall Judicial Board, Student Ju­dicial Board, and University Ju­ Dave Kelly will select ten people from the present hoard. These names will he submitted to the Student Sen:1te for aporoval. The Hall Judicial Boards Will  ' No room (continued from page 1) Koreans didn't come out of their  for the individual' individual in North Korea," about people there," he said. !-It: Bucher said. learned to appreciate how this  
dicial Board. The University  Court, which  be selected by the various halls. There will be no limit on the  houses in the winter. I guess that was a bit of an understatement."  Bucher was very pleased that he and his men were released in  great country can provide those who are less fortunate.  for  
hears serious cases .which are of concern to the entire university, will consist of six me m hers of the Student Life Council: two students, two faculty members, and two members of the admin­istration. The two representa­tives from each hrand1 will be chosen by their constituents on the S.L.C. and then the six nominees will be approved by the entire council. The Student Board, which hears serious cases which only concern students, consists of five regular and five alternate mem­bers chosen from the student  number of members each hall hoard may have. When asked why he had op­posed the elimination of the limit on number of members on the Hall Board, Fr. Riehle ex­plained that he felt that a small number of qualified and objec­tive people could do a better job in a dorm than a large number of halfway interested people. When asked to comment on the code, Fr. Riehle said that he felt it is a good code but that its success depends on the students; on how serious they would be in their endeavor.  Bucher added. Bucher described the courage of his men while in ,~aptivity as "fantastically tremendous." "I just can't say enough for my crew. The men stuck togeth­er like glue," he said. The commander labeled North Korea the "tightest com­munist society in the world." North Koreans are totally com­mitted to the idea that the world will never be truly happy until all peoples dedicate themselves completely to the slate, accord­ing to Bucher. "There is no room for the  time for Christmas last year. "I couldn't have asked for a better Christmas present," he said. Bucher is presently studying Naval Management at the Naval Post-Graduate School in Monter­rey. He doubted if he will ever receive another command al­though he would be delighted to accept one. Commander Bucher was born in Idaho in 1927 and lost both parents within a year. He lived in om: orphanage after another un­til he ended up in world famous Boys' Town. "I karned a lot about life and  Bucher joined the Navy in his senior year of high school be­cause he longed to see the world. But he soon tired of painting and swabbing the decks. So he left the Navy and allended lhe University of Nebraska. But he was recalled at the outbreak of the Korean crisis al which time he earned his com­mission. Bucher soon decided to make the Navy his career. "I fell this was the best way I would repay the many kind­nesses bestowed on me by the generosity of the people of this country," he said.  

The CPA: he's where itS at. 
When there's a tough business deci­sion to be made, the Certified Public Accountant is a man everybody wants to have around. 
His advice often makes the differ­ence between success or failure. 


He's a key man in developing and interpreting economic data. 
And in every type of enterprise. You name it: television, steel, oil, government, hospital~. aerospace. 
What qualities should a CPA have? He should be able to think creatively, analyze problems, and come up with imaginative solutions. And he should be the kind of man that people can put their confidence in. 
A CPA might join an accounting firm and eventually become a partner. Or he might open a practice for him­self and go it alone. Or he can work in almost any type of business he chooses. What other profession offers so many choices? 
You can select courses now that could earn you your CPA certificate soon after graduation. Or you might want to go on to graduate work. Ask your faculty adviser about it. 
We've prepared a booklet with the whole CPA story. Just drop a card or note (mentioning the name of your college) to: Dept. 15, AICPA, 666 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y . .10019. 
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants 
Bucher went into the Sub­marine Force where he found "the hardest working people in the U.S. Navy." Twelve years later he was assigned to the Pueblo. 

St~ne theft 
(contii7Ued .(rom page I) 
witness to someonc's stupidity. I 

don't even know what they 
could do with the stones. Maybe 
they would make a nice door·· 

stop," he said. 
Fr. Riehle indicated that he: 
has more than a good idea when' 
the stones were and could get 
them hack rather quickly if if 
became necessary. However, hl~ 
has no immediate plans for get·· 
ting the stones back or bringing 
the thieves to justice. 
"I don't think the security 
people arc involved in this and 
there really is no reason why 
they should be. I think it will he 
taken care of very soon and very 

easily," he said. 
SMC names new program director 

Mary A. c;erber, 5 I 95 2 Lilac Road, South Bend. has been named director of programming for Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana. She replaces Mrs. Katharine Cooper who accepted a position in the local business community. 
Mrs. Gerber is a native of Minneap<llis, Minnesota, attend­ing West lligh School in that. city and the Unive.sity of 1\linnesota before coming to South Bend. She has also attended Saint Mary's College and Indiana Uni­versity in South !:lend. 
STUDENTS FACULTY & ADMINISTRATION! 

Fel!! Stinwluted & Reji·eshed.' Go to: 
N.D. 
Barbershop Hours 8:00a.m. to 4:45 Sat. 8:00a.m. to 11:45. Open 5Yz days a week. Serving 

N.D. 
men over I00 years. 




The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 


711E OBSERVER 

~~~=====================-=-==···==~~======~---~-~-~-~--~-========~~==========~ 
•





F.U. program IS enjoyable 
The Frt·e University al the University of Notre Dame offers courses to help people copt• with life, unders1<111d life, enjoy life, or just plain out-wit life. 
Senior Rick Lihowilz, a mem­ber of the Free University board, dt·scrihed the purpose of the varied offnings as "ht'lpful people gain knowll:dge relevant to their personal roles in con­temporaryssociety and develop­ing individual sets of values with which to assess their growth as human beings." Libowilz ex­peds 600 slu(ll'nls from Notre Dame and nt•arhy St. Mary's Collcgt• to enroll in courses which can be led by anyont', attended by anyone, and arc University. 
The J I courses offered generally fall into three classes, I he first composed of discussion groups which help students ex­plore their own attitudes and values. Such a course is "The Draft," taught by Mike Kovacevich of South Bend, and described as a "course for con­fused, concerned people." The discussion sessions will considt•r the alternatives of induction, re­sistance, leaving the country, or accepting deferments, and will offer a sounding hoard for the students to consider the quest­ions, "Will I go if called? If so, 

New workshop offered 
by Janine Fast 
Something new is being offer­ed this year to the creative wri­ters of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame a Writers' Workshop. II is open to all lower division stu­dents. esperially those not en­rolled 111 a writing class, who want "to discuss their writing with an eye to improving their craft." 
Mr. II a rold Isbell, the Direct or of the Writing Program at St. Mary's and the originator of the Workshop, stressed its informali­ty: "It's not a course or a class. It's just a chance to come a­round and talk about one's wri­ting." 
Isbell feels no one can leach another how to write, and so lht• Workshop will primarily serve as a place to gd specific criticism or guidance in developing a wri­ting skill. Mr. Isbell plans to conduct the program on a one­to-one basis in its early stages, and if the response warrants it, informal discussion groups will be planned twice a month. 
Ile emphasized the Work­shop's basic lack of slrudure since, he noted, both students and himself have busy schedules. 
For all those interested in talking about writing, whether it he prose or poetry, Mr. Isbell's office is Room 126 Madclva. His office hours arc I0 -12 on Monday, Wednesday. and (."ri­day, and II -I 2 and I -2 on Tuesday and Thursday. 

Hersch bach offers. Reilly lectures 
New techniques to observt• the hl'l1avior of individual mol­ecull's will hl' pre sen led in I hrt'l' Reilly Ledures in chemistry at the University of Notre Dame next WCl'k. 
Dr. Dudley R. llcrschbad1, profl·ssor of chemistry at liar­
-vard, will speak at 4 p.m. in Room 123 of Niewland Science llall November 3, 5, and 7. llis addrl'SSl'S are tit led "React ions c;overned by Potential Curve Crossing," "Long-lived, Oscula­ting and Activated Collision Complexes" and "Correlation of Rl'<lction Dynamics with J·:lee­tronic Slrudure." 
Ikrschb<.~ch, a forml'T John S. c;uggenheim Fellow at till' Uni­versity of Freiburg, (;crmany, and winm·r of I he Award in Pure Chemistry of the Amcrican Chemical Society, has refined tcchniq ues to sl udy individual molecules as Ihey undergo colli­sions and n·actions. 
In most rcadions, there are so 
many molecules that the chemist cannot ohscrvc the behavior of any one, and can only obtain a statistical pidurt• of what hap­pens. llcrschhaeh has refint·d techniques for generating "mole­cular beams" containing rela­tively small numbers of mole­cull'S, and crossing these beams to creal!: inlcr<.~ct ions. 
The Rl·illy ll'durl'S in chemis­try Wl'Tl' endowed hy the late l'l'll'r C'. Reilly of Indianapolis. Over om· hundred dislinguishl·d scil:ntisls have delivered Rl·illy Ll·cturt•s since till' fund was cre­ated in I 94X. 

always free. There is no official why? If not, am I willing to tic hctwecn F.U. and the accept consequences?" 
Rl'quiescal in Pace 

There will be a Memorial Mass this evening to be celebrated in honor ol Brother David Darst, lover of peace, one of the "C1tonsville nine" who died on 1-'riday in an automobile acddent in Kansas. 
Sarred IIcari Church. I0:30 p.m. (after Nixon's speech) 



Cra(/SIIICII in Ot'll~'\ 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGlASSES AND CONTACT LF.NSES rHE SHlRLAND BLOG ... 132 S. MICHIGAN ST ...t-..L.tral.:-141',:·· 
' 


Main Off1CC. IJ:. N. Waba~t1 Avc,.. Ct1ic,,~l" 
An other discussion course called "Gracious Living" will ex­plore "how a gentleman faces life," and will imparl such rare knowledge as "how to live the gracious life on $7,000 a year." On the serious side are courses covering environmental pol­lution and ecology. 
The second group of courses leach skills not usually offered by the traditional university, such as "Juggling," and "Begin­ning Contract Bridgt·." Other 
skills offered are "Advanced Guitar," "Elementary Italian," and "Advanced Squash Tech­niques." 
Thirdly, F.U. offers courses quite similar to many offered by the traditional university, but with heavier emphasis on· the offbeat. These indude a course for military buffs on "Battles and Leaders of the American Civil War," "Baseball Trivia Sem­inar," and "American Locomot­ivt's." 



MODEL U.N. DELEGATE SIGN-UPS 
Tonight in the Dining Halls and the 0-C office 
SOPHOMORE THRU GRADUATE STUDENTS 
Part-time positions available as a manager for on-campus advertising, market research, and sales promotion programs. Liberal fees will provide a steady income ~II year. Ifinterested call collect: (area code 313) 962-2300, Room 2054. (Detroit, Michigan) 

PITT GAME 
Ticket Distribution 
Monday Night-7:30 2D La Fortune 
Receipts Must Be Shown!/ 




There's no other tampon like Playtex tampon was always Playtex. Outside, soft and silky, more absorbent. Actually 45% not cardboardy. Inside, so extra more absorbent on the average absorbent, it even protects on than the l(;ading regular your first day. That's why we tampon because of the unique call it the first-day tampon. way 1t's made. Actually adjusts 
In every lab test against the to you. Flowers out, fluffs out, old cardboardy kind, the protects every inside 
•aa<:ted O'l the a11t>ragt-wof"'""an's. us.f' ol ttn !ampons pl'r month, 
inch of you. 

Once you try it, we think you'll love it. That's why we're making you this special "two months free" offer. 
So go ahead. Use the coupo11 and get more than two months' supply free. 


r-----------------------------. 
Here's 50¢ for my more than two months' supply of Playlex tampons. Send in a plain brown wrapper, please. 
0 Regular 0 Super 
Name'----------------~----~--------------------­
(ult•Jo:.P. pr•n') 
Address._________________________________________ 
City___________ State_______Zip______ 
Mail coupon to: International Playtex Corporation, Dept. WV, 350 Filth Avenue, New York. N.Y. 10001. Offer expires December 31, 1969. Please allow lour weeks lor delivery. 

L-----------------------------~
Plartu Corp. 





THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
OONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Publisher GJ\ETANO DE SAPIO, Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3~ 1966 NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 
Non -violence in mass movements 
The advance publicity of The Mobilization on Washington on November 15 indicates a shift in tactics by the '"non-violent" left. 
The October 15th Moratorium was intended to enlighten the participants concerning the nature of the Vietnamese War, and also to demonstrate to the government the necessity for a new course of action. The organizers professed no hate of President Nixon, the military, or the North Vietnamese. There was a total rejection of the human degradation and killing propagated in Vietnam. 
Thomas Cornell of The Catholic Worker, who spoke on campus last Wednesday contended that this month's Mobilization would be non-violent. Minutes later he spoke of "tearing Nixon down," and "taking over Washington if Washington continues to oppress the Third World." 
No one can deny that Mr. CorneJI is supporting a good cause when he pleads for peace in Vietnam. However, a non-violent demonstration requires putting people before causes rather than causes before people. Participants in a non-violent demonstration must realize the humanity of the people that they arc trying to affect. By threatening the government and ridiculing Mr. Nixon, Mr. Cornell is employing the very means that ultimately result in domcsJ_ic and international violence. 
If the Mobilization fails to speak of issues instead of personalities it is no longer being non-violent, rather it is employing the politics of force, which places ends above means causes before people. Carried to its extremes, the politics of force result in the suspension of morality so that "right ends" can be achieved. 
A march upon Washington can never be non-violent if the internal disposition of the marchers includes a hate of the people in the government. The issues and problems .Jf our nation must be examined in the context of the human condition of our leaders. 
As people prepare to rally in Washington, Christ's simple command to hate the sin but low the sinner becomes relevant and profound. True peace can never come through the use of force, either covert or overt, but only through the enlightenment of all concerned. As Dag Hammerskold said, "Unless there is a spiritual awakening in the world, we are doomed." 
SMC Board of Trustees 
Near the entrance to the old Rcig,·.beaux in LeMans Hall is the inscriptio11 set in stone which reads, "You shalt know the truth, and the truth shall make you free." This supposedly is one of the precepts upon which St. Mary's is fou11ded. These words arc Plcaningless for the St. Mary's student who is repeatedly stifled in her personal search for truth. Truth ic: personalized, not cot.1putcrized. We believe that in the St. Mary's Community the search for truth is thwarted by the college structure itself, especially by the Board of Trustees, who are ignorant, through circumstance, of what that search entails for the St. Mary's student today. 
The members of the Board o• -:·rustees descend upon the ollege twice a year, deal with the problems, and depart. Few students are aware of who the members are, and, more important, few of those members have a real understanding of living and learning day in and day out at St. Mary's. Yet these are the ones who determine the policies that govern every facet of student life. The board acts on matters of academic opportunities anf' requirements, as well as the social standards by which the students exist--everything from Afro-American Literature to Open Houses. Student contact with the board consists only in representation on standing adl'isory committees. By holding the responsibility for student policy in the areas mentioned, the members of the Board of Trustees limit the scope of thl truths which the student is allowed to seck. 
It is our opinion that the P.oard should have jurisdiction only in matters of finance and development. Student policy should be handled by a board of representatives of the Student Body, people who arc intimately aware of tlw needs of their constituents and who can work with them in structurin;s a curriculum and a collegiate atmosphere which can be beneficial to .J:eir growth and development. 
A student's life cannot be controlled by anyone but herself if sht: is to be free to apply the decisions she has made o;: the basis ol tle knowledge and wisdom to which she is exposed. If a young woman cannot be trusted to accept the responsibility for her own search for truth; if she must ''~ spoon-fed a prepared diet of course material and social encounter, she. is defeated from the outset and she can never be set fn:e. She compromises her own curiosity and adopts an attitude of dependency for the n:st of her life. 

The opinions in the editorials.
Photo EditOf": Phil Bosco
Oavid Breen, Business Manager 
news analyses, and columns of The
Features Editor: Tom Ehrbar
Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. 
Observer are solely those of the
Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin 
News Editor: Glenn Corso 
authors and editors of The Observer
Night Editor: Dave Lammers
Copy Editor: David Stautfer 
and do not necessarily reflect the
Layout Design: Tom Hamilton
Associate Editors· Cliff Wif1trode, 
views of St. Mary's College, the
Headlines: Jan Reime Rich Smith
Ann Conway, Laura Haferd, Jeanne 
University of Notre Dame, their
Layout: Margie Rurak, Buz Craven
Mary Ellen Burke Charlie Myers 


We born bed at ND: once again the U.S. mili­tary is attacked. this time in the stadium. 
~'T­
..., 

0 
<J 
0
"' 
CQ 
:c 
Q.. 
> 
.c. 
c 
0 
.r:: 
Q.. 
After roses and a kiss for Mrs. Jones, it was a day in the stands for the President. 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
On top of old Smokey 
their sound coupled with their .hilling to a bigger act, and the audience could really believe and their song the South Bend high crowd's only disappointment sympathize with him as he sang school element stormed theby Jim E. Brouan choice of material made their 
"I need her More than want stage again and were literally on
was that she was not on longer.
Bob IJy tan has called Smokey short stint more than hearahle. 
her," from Wichita l.ineman. top of old Smokey. He could 
Rohinson America's greatest liv­Best received of their offerings After a 20 mipute intermis­
He held the audience in the perform no longer and hurried ing pod. I'm not so sure that he were Alfie and Hverything is sion, Smokey Bill Rohinson and 
palm of his hand when he intro­off the stage. These few wrecked is that. hut he is one of Ameri· Uptigh I, Outasite. the Miracles appeared. As a 
duced A braham, Martin, & John it for the rest of the audience as ca's great entertainers, as he The remainder of the first half point of information for the 
with "We are now living in a it seemed that Smokey was proved here in last Saturday of the concert was performed by Student Union official who 
powder keg" and that they were ready to perform at least one 
night's Homewming Concert. Yvonne Fair, a Motown artist introduced them, they arc not 
ahout to dedicate a song to four more number after this. The Smokey and the Miracles have who has worked with such not­merely one of the original Mo­
men who had died leading a ushers were nowhere to be ables as James Brown, Chuck town groups; but rather it was
heen around long enough to rightful struggle for freedom. found and an unruly few ended know how to really entertain an Jackson, the Supremes, the Smokey Robinson teaming up 
And then when the high school the concert for everyone. audience, and their show once it Temptations, Stevie Wonder with the ~·~iracles who recorded If one event can be singled
element from town rushed the 
got started (after only a 45 and Marvin Gaye. Her exper~ the first hit for Barry Gordy's 
stage during Mickey's Monkev out as typifying the whole con-· minute wail -not had Student ience with these musical Hall of Motown Records. It was called 
cert, it was when Smokey yelled ' Union, you're improving) was Famers has hdped make her into You Better Shop Around. "Is the ' he sent them back to their se~t~ 
everybody ready?" and the most professional thai Notre a whirlwind of activity the mo­Their performance was flaw­crowd overwhelmingly roared 
with only a kind rebuke and 
they obeyed for the most part.
Dame has seen all season. ment she sets foot on the stage. less. It had all the elements of a 
back in the affirmative. They
The last number that they
For the first time this season She not only sang in the Aretha truly professional concert. 
were ready for Smokey and he 
Franklin Smokey related were able to perform was Going
there was some cohesion in the -Tina Turner tradition, to the audience was ready for them-everybody
to a Go-Go. For in the middle of
concert as a whole. There wasn'I hut she danced like a female with his songs and his between was ready. song patter. Probably the most
the effect of throwing together James Brown. The essence of singing hlues interesting thing to note about
l w o d i f f c rent a cIs I hat this performance was the
weren't complimentary to each music is total involvement on method with which Smokey
other like Woody Iierman & the pari of the singer. Miss Fair introduced his act. Instead of
Dionne Warwick, Campus folk was involved in her music and talent & Chamhers Brothers, hut helted out her songs. the likes of 
just talking to the audience he 
used the vehicle for which he is
ralht•r a hlending of some solid which Notre Dame hasn't seen 
most famous, to relate to t)le
soul performances. There also since Ray Charles was here for 
audience, that is he sang his
wasn't the problem of an un­llomecoming 1966. It is doubt­
known group doing unknown ful. however, that she will make introduction. material it big as a recording artist he­Smokey and group did I 0 Tht• audience, which was cause. like so many others, she numbers altogether, induding a 
sounds too much like an imita­4 song medley called "sad tion of Aretha. memories," which induded }"es­
psyched to start with, was warm­
ed up hy Bohanna & the Mo­
Fvery song that she did the tcr!Ol'l' and Tracks oi M.l' Tears.
town Sounds. This 9 member audience appreciated. Of her They opened up with It )'ou
group (:!guitars, 3 saxaphones. 2 
seven number~ the best were Can Want the powerful/ ,i;econd
trumpets, a drummer, and a con­hlwin Starr's :!5 Miles Terupl<.i­That !:"motion, and a soulful
go drummer) performed 4 tions' I Wish It Would Rain. and Vt'rsion of Wichita Uneman. The
inst rumen tal numlwrs. Although <I Marvrn <;ayt• type rendition of best thing about these songs was
it is normally rather dull just I /Ieard It Throuxh the (,'rape­t hal Smokey didn't jusI sing
sitting and watching a non-vocal vine. She was fine as a seL·ond them. he really fell them. The
hand perform, the excellence of 


Editor: 
Tim McCarry's column was very cute on Tuesday. Everyone of course will agree with him that Rome has horribly pervert­ed the Christian faith, and that all the saints were horny, messed up, etc. However, I'm afraid that there is one thing I can't allow to pass without correction, be­cause it involves questions of doctrine. 
In the account of the contro­versy of Firmilian and Pope Stephan over the question of re-baptism of heretics, ·McCarry states that Firmilian's position that baptisms conducted by heretics are invalid was "in ac­cordance with the earliest Church tract it ions", and states Firmillian's position that Rome had broken away from the Church by rejecting this posi­tion. 
An hour and half of research in the Library sufficed to bring to light the fact that Stephan's condemnation of Firmillian's po­sition was based on tradition; in fact Firmillian's position origina­ted in the beginning of the third century, while Pope Stephen's interpretation was the one really in accordance with the earliest Church traditions". Pope St. Stephen's position has survived as the teaching of the Church, with confirmation by the great Augustine within a century. 
Now the point itself is not what I most object to -I do not expect that there will be a re­newal of loving loyalty to the Pope at Notre Dame because Pope St. Stephen was indeed correct. What I most object to is the fact that such half-baked, or more accurately, patently in­accurate renderings of the truth can appear in print to influence people who didn't have the time that I did to check it out. People concerned with undermining proper Catholic loyalty to the Roman Pontiff have always sought to twist history to suit their ur oses and it is just too bad that McCarry has decided to repeat these old-fashioned, worn-out tactics. It can only be hoped that people will accord such actions the kind of disdain they deserve. 
Chris Wolfe 
721 Grace Tower 
Salaried sisters 
Editor: 

I am writing in connection w1th Julienne Empric's article (Observer, October 22, 1969) on "The Plight of the TA's." Having been a T A myself, I certainly agree that the salary received is entirely disproportionate to the services rendered. However, I would like to make another point here, one connected with Miss Empric's comparison be­tween theTA's and the members of a religious order. 
One might interpret her anal­ogy to mean that, while the T A must struggle daily with finan­cial reality. the "parochial school nun" can live in blissful "unconcern," because the reli­gious community "assumes the costs of food, clothing, lodging and medical expenses." But just what is "the religious commun­ity"? It does not exist apart from its members, and its funds arc only what its members bring in. I would like to propose an anal­ogy of my own: Suppose the TA's all turned over their salaries to the Graduate Student Union. And suppose the Universitv then said, "The TA's don't need a raise. What do they have to worry about? The Graduate Stu­dent Union has assumed the costs of their food, clothing, lodging, and medical expenses." The TA's would very quickly point out that they were the GSU and that the GSU funds were no more than the consoli­dated (inadequate) T A salaries. 
I make such a point of this fact, that religious life docs not provide a blank check and a refuge from responsibility, be-
Letters 

cause of several instances of ig­norance and injustice which I have encountered during my three years at Notre Dame. Up until two years ago that I know of, it was the practice to pay Sis­ters who worked, for instance in the library, exactly one-half the wages paid to other students do­ing the same work. Why? Be­cause, as was said to me, "Their orders can afford to support them. The orders won't let them starve." (An interesting criter­ion!) 
A couple of years ago one of my professors was amazed to hear that I was not going home (to California) for Thanksgiving, Christmas, or semester break, be­cause I couldn't afford it. "I thought you religious had unlim­ited funds," he said, and he was actually serious. Again, up through the last academic year, when a Sister won a dissertation year fellowship it was automatic­ally cut in half, at least in my department, on the theory that "the nuns don't need it -they have religious orders to support them." And just the other day I was talking to a new departmental secretary over in 0 'Shaughnessy, who was astonished to learn ·that Sisters on this campus do pay for room rent, tuition, food, books, etc.; she had always thought that nuns got everything free because this is a Catholic university! 
In view of these misconceptions and the many others I've run into, I would like to share a few facts about my own religious order. which is not untypical. 
Close to half the members are either still finishing their education, or working in an area where they ma kc no salary at all, or ill and temporarily not working, or past retirement. These bring in no funds. Therefore, the other half arc supporting themselves and someone else. Those Sisters who are in hospital work generally 
PART TIME WORK 
GOOD PAY· PICK YOUR OWN HOURS WORK ON THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNI DIRECT R COME TO ROOM 2C LAFORTUNE 
STUDENT CENTER WEDNESDAY NOV.S 
ALL DAY 9AM TILL 8PM 
Ask for our directory ,ep,esenfaf'·ves 
•

WARD BROWN JIM CLANCY
lt:=========================================:il t1l'tlll $2)00-2700 step
(tWO 

receive regular professional, salaries, but those who are teaching are lucky to get as much as $1 50 a month. Even with all funds pooled, it is becoming more and more difficult to wring food, clothing, medical expenses, building upkeep or rent, education, recreation, and charitable donations, plus the care of the aged and the ill, from the combined incomes of the Sisters. 
The point is that religious orders arc not rolling in money; they do not have unlimited 

resources; they can not afford to support Ph. D. students away at school. Some kind of financial aid or supplementary work is as necessary for religious graduate students as for any other; their orders, too, are caught in the bind of higher prices/fixed salaries, salaries which often have to be ridiculously small in order to provide funds for whatever charitable work the Sister is engaged in. In the past decade I have been member of a religious order, parochial school teacher, diocesan high school teacher, college teacher, graduate student, and T A; and I speak from all those perspectives when I say that the myth of "the rich nuns" is just that· a myth. 
Sister Ellen FitzGerald, S.M. 
326 Lewis Hall 

Model T.A.'s Editor: Your series on "The Plight of the T.A.'s" calls attention to the needs of a segment of the stu­dent body often overlooked and taken for granted. However. some of the figures given on the stipends received by T .A.'s at other universities arc consider­ably different from figures given me last spring. At that time I wrote to the I-1 istory Depart­ments in the nineteen universi­ties rated highest in history by the Cartier Report on graduate education. I inquired what sti­pends were paid to their history 
T.A .·s. Seventeen of these uni­versities responded. It was not always clear whether tuition was included in the figures reported, ami there arc further uncertain­ties about whether the services required of T.A.'s arc stri(·t]y comparable in all cases. In spite of lht'se drawbacks, the results provide some basis for compar­ison. All the figures that folio~ are for the academic year 
I<J(JR-69 unless otherwise indi­cated. The si;e of the cndow­nll'nl of each institution. also useful for comparison, is given in parL·nt hcsis. 
llarvard (Fndowmcnl $6~2.000.000). Stipl·nd for !lis­lory T.A.'s $4~00 (for 3/5 of a Iull tl·aching load). 
lkrkcley ($~50.000,000), Sti­

~1t~l;1drat~-~240-32R5-3330 (three 
Michig•tn ($5o.ooo.ooo). sti­pend $2 7~o-~<J00-3000. Illinois ( S 14.000,000). Sti­pl·ndS..:'700(1<J(,<J-70). lndi;tna (not available), ';ti­
rate). Cornell($182,000,000), Sti­pend $2u00. Pennsyivania ($158,000,000), Stipend $2200-2400-2600. Wisconsin( not available). Sti­pend $2350-2440. Stanford($216,000,000), Sti­pend $2100. 
Northwestern ($155,000,000), Stipend $2100. Johns Hopkins ($150,000,000), Stipend $~000. 

The other universities re­sponding· Yale, Princeton, Chi­cago, Columbia, Duke. and North Carolina· either did not usc T.A.'s or described their arrangements in such a way as to make comparison difficult. Chi­cago, for example, docs not of­fer T.A.'s in history·, and the stipends accompanying their "research assistships" are "de­cided by the individual profes­sors." The chairman at Yale wrote that "we pay someone $600 a year to teach two to three hours a week.'' But he added that such a person would also he receiving tuition and $200 a month for living ex­penses as part of the normal fellowship held by a full-time graduate student. 
T.A.'s in history at Notre Dame receive a $2100 stipend, in addition to tuition. Notre Dame's endowment is $65.000,000. Both of these fi­gures are low relative to the institutions listed carlin.· But the stipend paid here is less dramat­ically out of line with the others than is the figure for Notre Dame's endowed resources. It should hl' noted also that Sl'ven of the eleven institutions listed receive puhliL· funds in addition to deriving incomes from their endowments. Aside from liar­van! therl' are only three strictly private institutions on the list. Two of these-Stanford and Nor! hwestern pay T .A.'s in his· tory exactly what Notre Dame docs; the third (Johns llopkins) pays $I 00 less. The endowment of l'ach of lhl'Sl' three schools is more I han t wicc I hat of Notre Dame. Moreover, Illinois re­quires twin~ as much teaching time for $2700 (thrcl' sections tm·eting twice a week) as Notre Dame does for $2100 (three sections once a week L 
In view of these considera­tions, it docs 'lOt seem that the stipends received by history T.A.'s here arc outragl'Ously out of line with other institutions comparable in cntain respects with Notre Dame. 
Mr. Scheer says (Observer, Od. 20) that Northwcstnn and many othn schools pay T.A.'s more than twicL' what NolrL' Dame pays. That may be the case in respect to T.A .'s in l· ng­lish, but it is not correct for history T.A.'s. To this dt•grcc, it is misleading to say that "ThL' I· nglish depart menl will serve as a model" of the T.A.'s general situation. 
l'veryonc acquainted with the situation would like to have all our graduate students better pro­vided for financially All the graduate studl·nts I ever knew 11L'L'tll'd financial asstslancc. But not all graduate students arc T.A.'s. and not all T.A.'s arc in the same situation. l'itlll'r in <1· mount of work I hey are req uircd to do here, or in rl·spect to how much their counlcrparts at other 
universities receive. Sincncly yours. Philip (;(cason Associate l'rokssor llistory 

Glenn Corso 
Budget cuts 
Wht•n the Senat~ h~arings on the budg~l began, I was a firm 
support~r of the theory of "fiscal responsibility"; tl.at is that the 
student government should pay off tl.e entire debt. and then cut lhc 
budget s'1 a~ tl hav~ the small~st possible hut I had trougle putting 
my finger or. , h~ cause of my discomfort. The er.tire proceedings 
b~gan hut I had trouble put ling 11y finger on the ca.Ise of my 
discomfort. The entire proceedings scemed wen: being cast into it. 
and used ~s vehicles fi)r personal vendettas at·ainst several people in 
student government. 
The fimt consideration which beg.In to create a gnawing doubt in 
me was the brutal treatment afforded the SophOJ'ltJn' Literary 
Festival. lien~ was a nationally famous assemblag\ d eminent 
literary (igures, who graced this rather sterile campus with their 
p1esenn: for a painfully short time. It was denied all but a paltry 
aniounl of funds, in considnation of "current financial state oft he 
stu.dent goVt'rnment." 
Nt'xl \\as Lh~ slash'ng of the Contt:mporary Arts Festival rt:quest. 
T'IeSt' L'VI nts also enjoy national prestige. The programs offer the 
mm.t l'Ull urally enril:hing ex perit:n.:es on c·a mpus. yet some of its 
programs wt·rc deemed expendable, e.g. Modt:rn Dance, bc.:ause 
"most students wert•n't interested." lht• Seeming paradox that most 
s!ulknts w~ren't interested in modern dan.:e because they had n~ver 
t·een exposed to it was ignon•d. 
An To~lal wt:t:kt:nd. one of the most su.:cessful social events of 
the entire yt:ar at Notre Dame. was cui off almost entirely. 
The one event that turnt·d me t:nlirt:ly against the pro.:eedings was 
the cutting of lht• student subscription fee to tht: Observer. Of all the 
organilalions that prt:st•nted budget requests. none of them could 
claim that virtually the entire student body supported them or that 
tht:y could dicit intt:rt•st from t:ven a majority of tht: students. 
Yet lht· Senate saw fit to cripplt: tht: papt:r, lhert:by possibly kssen1ng its quality and ability to cover the bro<Id scope of campus at:liviii•:s. To mt:. this seemed incomprehensible. I .could l•ol and ~·anrwl undt:rstand such an act ion. 
My first fet'ling was that my theory of student supptJrl for lht: papt:r was fundamt•nlally unsound. To check, I and a reporter on my Stilff .:ondul'lt'd a compklt:ly impartial telephone survey of 100 studt•nts. We called ill least 4 students in every hall on campus, and claimed to he conducting the poll for the "Student Publications Board." Tht· results were startling to say the least. Exactly 80 of those contacted wanted a diiily Observer. Fully 66 of those supportt:d the original request of $1 2,000, whilt: the others t'Xpresst·d support for amounts between $lJ,500 and $12,000. Their ieasons ranged from the "overall good quality of the paper," to "agreement with t•ditorial policy'. and to the need for the "daily mformation" provided by the paper. 
After wnsidering the full implications fo these feelings, plus the 
fat'! that a tkficil of $I 3,000 will exist, I began to consider a 
ri.llional allernalivt:. 
Tht• concept or deficit spt:nding is an entirely sound one. The entin• .:ountry is buill on deficit spending. Not only do virtually all governml'nls follow it. it is also followl'd by the huge majority of the eili7t•ns in this wuntry. How many people do you know that buy their houst: or car outright in cash'' How many companies buy large properties or new fat:ililies outright? 
Till' answer is of course virtuiilly none. Why should the sludt:nl government be any different'' We arc in t:ITect, buying culture and enriching expniences for the student body. Obviously these pur­dlast•s cannot bt• made on a small scale. If they ilrt•, everyone will be shortl'lwngt•d. The rt·ason for this tight budget is not even a good om•. A $20.000 or a $25,000 tkficit would not seriously impair the fin<lflcial status of the student govt:rnmt•nt. A re-payment could eastly be llli!de by next year's government. with the incurring of a smalle1 dt:fil:it. bt·h year it would grow smallt:r and smaller. until such time that it is paid off, or the activities fee raised. There is nothing horrible about this concept. Nearly everyone in the country opt'lalt•s on this theory. Tht• University itself is operating on a dt:ficil. I ht• administration is not panicking and cutting off the appropiatwns for sevt:ral departments, be.:ause they feel lht:y cannot afrort them. There is some paring of the budget, but not a wholesale butchering. 
The Scnatt: should, and must .:reate a larger deficit. and properly fund thost: activities whose contributions to this university arc beyond measurement 111 terms of dollars and cents. 
7NB O.&rERIIER 

ROTC to 
by Cliff Wintrode 
Tht: Vice-Presidents Council vol ed ovt:rw hel mi ngly last week not to include non-ROTC stu­dents in the flag-raising cere­monies at home football games. 
Tht: Council's dccision was revealed in a letter sent by J."a[her Charles McCarragher, Vice-President for Student Affairs, to Professor Carl Estabrook of the History Departmt:nt, Bernit: Ryan, off-campus commissioner, and J)avid Cormier, a Notre Dame ~~ udent. 
The Council's decision prompted <I return letter to McCarragher from a disappointed Estabrook who felt that his case had been stifled by Ihe "propcr channels." 
"It seems in this instance that on.:e again 'proper channels' have functioned merely as a defense of the status quo," he said. 
Estabrook added that this 
.conclusion was the result of three aspects of the disposition of his .:asc: a decision was made by a group to whit:h he had no access, his position was tendentiously presented, and the Council's analysis of student ot)inion as drawn from the editorial column of Tire Obserl'er was not necessarily accurate. 
McCarragher had mentioned 
in his letter that the V i c e-I' res i d t: n t s Co unci I inlt:rpreted from The Observer 
editorial of October 24 student opinion as opposing any change in lhc existing practice. 
•

ra1se flag 
MeCarragher added that although the question is closed for this year, he still fell it could he opened again before the 1970 football season. 
In response to this suggestion, Estabrook indicated in his letter that there would be a eont inued attempt to raise publicly the 
"serious issue of the relationship of the University and the military, as well as the general 
question of the political 
PAGE 7 
STEREO 

HEADPHONES 
By Sharpe 

In Stock  
Also  stereo  components  
by  Acoustic  Research  
Shore  Dynaco  Garrard  

Perpetuum Fhner Thorens 
AudioRMS Systems 1307 E Calvert 288-1681 or 232-1526 Hours: 6-9 Mon thru Thur 
responsibilities of the 1-SSundays University." And hy Uflpointment 
The question of non-military tf=============:::i! 
representation at the ceremonies was first raised by Estabrook and Ryan who approached Fr. McCarragher with the idea of possibly changing I he program to include diverse elements of the university community. 
Mcl'arragher then arranged a meeting between Ryan and Estabrook and representatives from the ROTC, the Athletic Department, and the Band. 
The m ee ti ng reached an impasse which resulted in McCarragher referring the question along with four options 
to  the  Vice-Presidents  Council  
for settl ement.  
~  
The  four  options  included :  

dropping the issue and: rt:discussing at a future time, : having an equal number of : 
~~;:t1 ~~i~:r:nts a~~ese~~.if~:~;~~ ~ 
an equal number of non-military : 
:t:~en~siv~~~~ted~r:s~~d th~~~~ ~ 
Beat tile Blahs! 
Steak Dinners for 2 
2nd One Half-Price 

Break the dull eating habit with tasty, juicy Black Angus broiled to order steak dinners. Sal'c half on the second dinner from the already low prices of $. 99 to $/.89. 
111111111111111111111111111111~ 
~COUPON.....C 
aLACK ANfJI/..,.:: 
U ~ : 
: 
~ 
! : 
-


Peretti .elected nat_ional president :South Bend Ave. & Edison Rd: : 
I· 
of Alpha Sigma Mu fraternity -:Coupon for Second Dinner of: ­
Dr. Ettore A. Peretti, professor of metallurgy and materials science at the University of Notre Dame, has 
been clected national president 
of Alpha Sigma Mu, the 
honorary metallurgical 
fraternity. 
Alpha Sigma Mu is the only honorary organization representing metallurgists, and has chapters at 24 universities with a total membership of 
2,500. 
l'erelli, who holds a dodorale of science from Wuertternberg Ins lilute of Tt:chnology of Stuttgart, .c;ermany, has taught <It Notre Dame since 1946. l'rl•viously, he was assistant professor of metallurgy at Columbia University in Nt:w York. 
lle is a member of the American lnsl ilute of Mining 
United Fund campaigns toward $1.7 million goal 
!'he United 1:unt1 Lt:agut· kicked off its annual campaign on Monday, October 20. anti already has reali7ctl one-third of its 1969 goal. Undt•r the tlire.:­lion of Mr. James hick, lkad of Rt•srarch and Dt:velopment at Notrt: Dame, the one-month fund raising drive is stri1 ing to meet its quota of $1,690,000 by November 20. This is Hr hick's first yt:ar as chairman of t ht: League and with thrt•e wt•eks lt:l't in the campaign, the drive is right on sd1edult:. 
The LeagUl' is lht: fund raising organization for lht• United C'on.munlly Services. The U.C.S. 
is a t:orporal ion compost•tl of thirty-seven llealth, Welfare. and Recreation or~anizat ions in St. Joseph County. 'I he llnilt=d l:und is a consolitlal ion of Ihe'e thirty-seven campaigns into one major drive. Thl' organizations which benefit from lht• drive include the Red Cross. Salvation Army, Canct:r Socit•ty. Boy S.:outs. U.S.O.. and YWCA. 
The campaign thi' y..:ar up­holds the football tradition. Six divisions or the l.eagUl' carry the drivt• to various areas of tht: South Bend community. These six divisions have bt'en given I ht' naml!s of pro foot ball teams. Tht' one thousand volunteers involved in the United Fund are thus able tn reach most areas of St. Joseph County. Mr. Facenda, assistant to Fr. Hesburgh, is the head of the "Jet" division. Many other members of the Notre Dame Community are also in­volved in the campaign. 
The 196H t:ampaign f'ell some­what short of its goal, raising $1 ,5H 1.000. Mr. Frick com­mented that the 1969 campaign is prcst:nlly W;; ahead of last year and well on its way to rl'aching its goal. 
op~~~ a~te~h~o~~~n~~~';;;~bers E STEAK HOUSE ~ 
~~~t=~~r~~~ t::dse~~~~ i~;:e~~~~ § § 
the third idea. : I520 N. Ironwood Dr. :
--ESouth of Ca rnpus bel ween -­
:same Value at HaiFPrice : 
41nd Metallurgical Engint:ers, the : Good Between :00am :
11

American Society for Metals, • : 
and the American Foundrymen's : and 4:00pm, : 
Society. ~~"~'t'.i~~~rm1ih~~~WrftM·1 r 
~----''-----------__J_::..::..::~::..::..::.::..::..:::..::..::.::..::..:::..::..::.::..::..::.:..:..:..:-..::.:..:.~~ 
PLAN YOUR WINlEfC/SIJI~IN!:Z VACJ\lftJN NOW~ 
INT'L. STIJDENTS ASSN. OFF:Er<S 11'S Ml\MUEdS 

(!:ikl Holiday!):

SWITZEnLAND 
(via Swiss Air)
Dennrt Chicu~o:o: Murch 21 Roturu Chlr:n!{o: Murch :w Dnptlrt ChlcU!{O: Murch 211 

Return Chicago: April 4 Trip Includes: Round trip jnt furo por person; hotel room; double occupancy; lift tlckots; 6 ski los­sons; hn!{gngo hnndllug; !runs­fora; all mnols; Rki equipmout; got-acquainted happy houri 


Trips sponsored by lnternutlonnl Students Associ•ltlon, representation around tho world. Mnkn clllld.s pnyublo to: lut. Students 1\sJ.I'n:, Min. Dnposit, :ill!i.OO por soat val. due bofore Fob. 1, Hl70. Full refund if you cancel by Dec. 1 
DA'f'(JSIT DHAIJUNf.' DHC 1.1 
········~·······················-~···························· 
(Dotuch '& Mnil) TO: Inloroallonnl SimluniH Assuduelon, Hl4 FoHhay Tower. Minnnnpolis, Minnesota 
(61 "}3 '•'}-117 I r.,
Euclmmd find $ ....(dopos(t) .l'ulf Payment to reserve .. . 
souls on trip to .............deporting ............ . NAME: ....................................... . ADLJRESS: ...................PHONE: ........... . SCHOOL: .......... , .......................... . 
THE OBSERVER MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1969
PAGE 8 
NDand Navy-theopposite extremes 
by Mike Pavlin 
It was wild, just wild. Notre Dame hammered Navy 4 7-0 in a homecoming game which just about reached the opposite extremes on offense and defense. 
I.) NO's total offense mark of 720 yards is a new record, break­ing the old total of 673 yards set against Illinois in 1968. 
2.) The Irish had 91 rushing attempts, three more than the previous best against Iowa, also in 1968. (The 597 yards rushing fell short of the record of 629 .) 
3.) There were 14 runs often yards or better, one a 79-yard gallop by reserve quarterback Bill Etter, the longest run of the season. 
4.) Joe Theismann completed

, 
only three passes, but they total­ed 123 yards. One went for 56 yards to Denny Allan, the long­est pass of the season. 
5 .) The Irish defense allowed Navy only five first downs, none on the ground. 
6.) The harrassed Midshipmen managed 19 net y ards rushing on 22 attempts and a mere 93 yards total offense. 
7 .) It was the second shut-out in a row for the defense and it brought NO's scoreless string to 14 of the last I 6 quarters. 
The greatest offensive day in Irish history began inauspi­ciously as Denny Allan fumbled the opening kickoff and was dumped at the four-yard line. Denny then fum bled the ball away, but Navy missed a field goal attempt from the Irish 18. 
Navy's defense made their first mistake by putting single coverage on split end Tom Gatewood. After some nifty faking, quarterback Theismann hit Gatewood, who had broken free, for a 35-yard TO pass with 
8:22 left in the quarter. !an helped set-up the swre w1 17-yard run to mid-field. 
The fireworks began in earnest early in the second stanza when NO went 66 yards in six plays. Allan contributed a 20-yard draw play, then lugged a Theismann pass 56 yards down the right sideline to the one. He 'SCored on the next play, although Scott Hempel missed the PAT. 
Theismann added to the antics with two scintillating runs. The first was a 46-yard 

., 
Bill Etter continued to enjoy amazing running success as he piled-up 140 yards against Navy, becoming NO's third ranking rusher. Here Jim Yoder (9) attempts to spring Etter past Navy's Jeff Lammers. 
The stats.. a good time had by all 
NAVY • NOTRE DAME 
Total First Downs Number Attempts Rushing Net Yards Rushing Number Passes Attempted Number Passes Completed Number Passes Intercepted Net Yards Passing Number of Plays Total Offense Yardage Number Interceptions Intercept. Return Yardage Number Times Punted Punting Average Number Punts Returned Punt Retur'l Yardage Kickoff Returns Kickoff Return Yardage Times Penalized Yardage Penalized Fumbles-Lost 
5 22 
19 32 
11 3 
74 
54 
93 
0 0 
12 42 
3 
1 
8 
119 0 0 
2-1 
29 91 597 
8 
3 0 123 99 
720 
3 
13 
3 
31 10 31 
1 4 6 
70 5-3 

NAVY  0  0  0  0  0  
NOTRE DAME  7  26  14  0  47  
SCORING  

NO: Gatewood, 35-yard pass from Theismann (Hempel kick) 
NO: Allan, 1-yard run (Kick failed) NO: Theismann, 46-yard run (Kick failed) NO: Allan, recovered fumble in end zone (Pass failed) 
NO: Huff, 7-yard run (PAT Ziegler run) NO: Etter, 15-yard run (Hempel kick) NO: Etter, 79-yard run (Hempel kick) 
NOTRE DAME 

RUSHING  ATT  NET YDS  
Ziegler  12  74  
Allan  10  66  
Barz  3  14  
Theismann  7  69  
Etter  11  140  
Huff  10  38  
Minnix  7  42  
Crotty  11  57  
Zielony  8  27  
Gallagher  4  16  

TD 0 
2 0 
1 
2 
1 
0 
0 
0 0 

PASSING ATT COMP INT YDS TO Theismann 7 3 0 123 1 Etter 1 0 0 0 0 RECEIVING NO YDS TO Gatewood 2 67 1 
Allan 1 56 0 PUNTING NO YDS AVG deArrieta 2 50 25 Yoder 1 44 44 PUNT RETURNS NO YOS Gulyas 3 8 Stepaniak 5 17 Crotty 2 6 KICKOFF RETURNS NO YOS Allan 1 4 INTERCEPT RETURNS NO YDS Gasser 1 9 Schumacher 1 4 R'•erman 0 
NAVY RUSHING ATT NET YDS TO Pike 12 28 0 Steelman 3 ·5 0 O'Connell 3 7 0 McNallen 3 -8 0 Spore 2 5 0 McArthur 1 -8 0 PASSING ATT COMP INT YDS TD McNallen 31 11 3 74 0 McArthur 1 0 0 0 0 RECEIVING NO YDS TD O'Connell 3 5 0 Barr 1 5 0 Schwelm 2 21 0 Lanning 1 13 0 Pike 1 12 0 Monson 2 12 0 Steelman 1 6 0 PUNTING NO YDS AVG Moore 12 507 42 
PUNT RETURNS NO YDS Drnetruk 3 1 KICKOFF RETURNS NO YOS O'Connell 3 43 
Yoder 8 54 0 Marchetti 5 76 
scamper down the left stde-hne for the third Irish score. Then, on third-and-one at the Navy 17, he called for the short yardage 
· formation with nine men on the line. Joe faked the hand-off and rolled right hoping to pass. With no one open, he reversed his field and headed down the left sideline. Joe made it to the one where he fumbled into the end ·.-one and into the arms of Allan for a touchdown. 
Coach Ara Parseghian expressed general displeasure with his offense during the first half, commenting especially on the turn-overs. The Irish fumbled five times during the game, losing three. 
Bill Etter made his appearance late in the second quarter, leading Notre Dame to another touchdown and a 33-0 halftime bulge. Meanwhile, the enterprising defense bottled-up the passing attack of Navy QB Mike McNallen, intercepting three of his throws. 
During the second half, the Irish attempted only one pass (incomplete), but rolled up 325 yards rushing. Etter warmed up with a IS-yard TD run with 8:20 left in the thtrd quarter. Then with the ball on the NO 21, he took a keeper over the right side. Running down the sideline, he faked out one defender at the 35 and, though thrown off-balance by his fake, out-raced the remaining defenders to complete the 79-yard scoring play. 
For 1he second game in a row, Etter was the leader Irish rusher. His 140 yards gives him 279 in the season in 25 carries, an 11.2 average. Clarence Ellis, now working at cornerback, was credited with two Passes­Broken-Up, giving him nine on the year and an excellent shot at breaking Tom Schoen's season record of eleven. 
In the injury department, Larry DiNardo suffered a bruised calf, not considered serious at the moment. Brian Lewallen underwent surgery last Tuesday on his knee, injured against Tulane. First string tight end Dewey Poskon did not play due to a pinched nerve in his neck. According to Parseghian, Poskon could have played had the situation become serious enough, but he really needed the rest. 

The Notre Dame defense l}anded Navy their first shut-out of the year. (Above) Co-captain Bob Olson confers with fellow linebacker Tim Kelley. (Below) Bob Neidert lowers the boom on Navy qb Mike MeNallen. 


