~­


Welcome freshmen. You are here. 
80 incoming freshmen displaced by incompletion of Grace tower 
by Dave Stauffer 
Eighty  members  of  Notre  newly  created  three-room, four  available  to  meet the parents of  
Dame's  freshman  class  will  man suites. Father Whelan noted  these  students  from  2  until  5  
report  today  to  temporary  that  in  all  cases  those students  p.m.  on  Saturday  afternoon.  
residences  in  the  old  halls  on  movP-d  will  room  with  their  This meeting will be held in the  
campus, due to the incompletion  Grace  Hall  roommates.  This  first  floor  lounge  of  the  
of  towt:r  'C'  in  Grace  Hall.  arrangment  will  keep  all  LaFortune Student Center. The  
Freshmen  living  in  towers  'A',  freshmen  with  freshmen  Grace  Hall  religious orientation  
'B', and 'D' will he able to move  roommates,  although  the  will be held Sunday at  II p.m.  
in today.  freshmen  of  Grace  will  not  in Sacred Heart Church.  
All  freshmen  and  necessarily he sharing their suite  The  contractor  has informed  
upperclassmt:n  affected  by  the  with other freshmen.  Father Whelan that the floors of  
incompletion  were  notified  of  Because  of  the  incomplete  tower 'C' will not be turned over  
the  provisions  for  temporary  dorm there will also be a slight  to the university individually, as  
residence  in letters sent  August  change  in  the  orientation  was  originally  planned  in  
18  hy  the  Director of Student  schedule.  Father  Whelan,  who  August.  Instead,  the  second  
Residence,  Fr.  Edgar  Whelan.  will also be rector of Grace Hall,  floor  through  the  sixth will be  
Arrangements  were  made  for  will  meet  with the freshmen of  available on October l; while the  
those students scheduled to live  his hall (towers C and D) in the  seventh  through eleventh floors  
in  tower  'C'  to  movt:  into  the  North Dining· Hall, from 9 until  are  planned  to  be  ready  on  
central  room  of  one  of  the  l 0  p.m.  tonight.  He  will  be  October 18.  

by Glenn Corso frosh involved will have the period before and after their
The most radical innovation co-ex class free, in order toto be experienced by the class of facilitate travel between the two'7 3 w iII be the expanded schools.
co-exchange program with Saint A radically different approachMary's college. The program, in frosh counseling will beannounced last spring by the undertaken this year. Besidespresidents of both schools, will meeting with his counselor, a
involve upwards of 245 
freshman may also have an
freshmen from the two 
undergraduate student present atinstitutions. The program will be the meeting. lle will thus have'used in four Arts and Letters two opinions available to him on
courses, including English, 
his particular problem. 
Government, History, and 
Dean Burke emphasized thatSociology. Notre Dame will one of the main uses for the
admit women to their 
undergrads will be to adviseHumanities program, in place of those frosh that have especiallyEnglish. 
serious problems in the first fewThe second phase of the weeks of the school year. Theprogram will come in the fall of undergrads selected will be those 1971, when both shcools will who had the same type ofconsolidate registration, class problems at the beginning ofschedules, academic calendars their freshman year.
and admissions. St. Mary's has A survey was taken last spring 
doubled its freshman class on the freshman counseling
enrollment to 500, in order to system, and as a result freshmen 
eventually achieve a I :3 ratio to Notre Dame men. 
will be allowed to switch their Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, CSC, counselor, if they feel they are appointed head of the program 
not getting along with him. Dean Burke also mentioned theby the presidents of both prospect of team counseling,
schools, stated that students where 3-4 counselors would sit
would still receive separate down with a group of students
diplomas from their respective and discuss any problems theyschools, unless the · student might have.
became totally involved with "One of our biggest jobs is totheir academic program at the break down the high schoolother school. Fr. Sheedy went attitude", Burke lleclareu. lie
on to say that the eventual goal went on to explain that many
of the program will be somewhat freshmen were reluctant to talkakin to the Harvard-Radcliffe to their counselors about theirmodel. 
problems becuase it had beenDean William Burke, head of considered "apple polishing" inthe Freshman year of studies, high school, and reluctant toconfessed to being "a bit talk to him because they castanxious" as to the number of him in the role of a principal,Notre Dame frosh who would whom they only saw when theyvolunteer for the program. 
were in trouble. 
Surprisingly though, over 600 A black counselor has beenindicated that they either did added to the Freshman Yearnot care one way or the other, 
office staff. Dr. Robert
or would be very willing to Seabrooks comes to Notre Dameparticipate in such a program. 
from Wartburg College in
Waverly, Iowa. Dr. Seabrooks
selection. The courses involved will be basically similar at both will counsel half the black schools, though different freshmen, along with fifty other 
textbooks may be used. All students. 
Dissidents plan informal meeting 
remarks:by Cliff Wintrode "We are trying to present the Freshmen and their parents other side of the issue tothis weekend will be the object freshmen. We arc trying toof attention from both the persuade them to avoid bindingCoalition for Political Action commitments at this point inand Students Against Racism. 
their lives." 
The Coalition will present a The Coalition is also going to 
counter to the ROTC 
pass out literature at the ROTC
orientation program while 
program inside the Athletic andStudents Against Racism will Convocation Center. The ROTCmake efforts to provide a program is scheduled to be held"personal dialogue" with the between the hours of one andstudents and their parents on two in the afternoon. Theracism at Notre Dame. 
Coalition has already prepared a Fred Dt:drick, Student Body phamphlet for this purpose.
Vice-President and a founder of Responding to the question of the Coalition, said that the whether or not the Coalition will 
Coalition will present an be allowed inside of the 
informal discussion tomorrow Convocation Center, Mcinerny,on the second floor of the taking into account the fact thatStudent Center at 2:30 to the Convo Center is not being
"emphasizt: the fact that rented but given by the
freshmen should look at both universitY for use by the ROTC,sides before deciding." 
answered: 
Brian Mcinerny, the primary "I do not see how they canorganizer of the Coalition's (continued on page 3)actions, seconded Dedrick's 

PAGE 2 THE OBS£RVDt FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1969 
Freshman orientation begins for 2,000 plus 
by Hank Bell 
Freshmen orientation begins today at Notre Dame and tomorrow at St. Mary's. 1660 men will be entering Notre Dame this fall and 484 women will be entering St. Mary's. 
The ND-SMC class of '73 surpasses the class of '72 in all fields of academic endeavor on the high school level. 
One of the prime standards used by college administrators in determing admissions is rank in class. Among the present crop of Notre Dame frosh, an 
Frosh session 
conducted 
Eighty-five upperclassmen 
met last Wednesday and 
Thursday to consider the issues 
and problems facing the 
incoming freshmen. Father Dan 
Boland of the Counseling 
Center, who conducted the 
Group Building Workshop, said 
the purpose was "to help the 
student volunteers to become 
aware of the experience that any 
person, particularly a freshman, 
goes through when he nters an 
unfamiliar social setting or 
institution. We want to make 
orientation more person 
centered than fact centered." 
The eighty-five 
upperclass men, representing 
twelve residence halls, will lead 
discussions with the freshmen 
during orientation week. 
overwhelming 90% ranked in the top 30% of their respective classes. Fully 50% of the freshmen ranked in the top I0% of the class. The statistics are equally impressive for the girls at St. Mary's. A total of 87% ranked in top third of their class, while 39% ranked in the top terith. 
One of the most important national norms used by admissions officers is the so called "college boards." The ND frosh achieved mean scores of 564 in verbal, and 616 in math. The bulk of the scores of the SMC girls fell in two ranges. In the verbal test, 251 out of 484 women scored between 500-600, while 129 scored above 600. In math 236 women hit the 500-600 range, while 120 had 600 or above. 
One of the most prestigious nation-wide scholarship tests is the National Merit Scholarship test. Students attaining the postion of semi-finalist or finalist are generally considered to be the intellectual elite of the nation's high school seniors. Notre Dame boasts 60 members of the class of 1973 achieving this high honor, while the SMC class of '73 has ten such winners. A total of 320 ND frosh and 38 SMC women received some sort of recognition from the National Merit board. 
The most widely recognized national high school stucknt 
ATTENTION: NOTRE DAME FRESHMAN 

If you are going to be something, why not be something special!!! Be a NROTC MIDSHIPMAN and earn a COMMISSION AS A NAVAL OFFICER. 
FULL TUITION SCHOLARSHIPS AVAILABLE 
CONTACT THE NROTC UNIT AT THE 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Call 283-6442 or 283-7274 
organization is the National Honor Society. This society consists of students who have maintained at least an 85% (3.0) average, and participated in extra-curricular activities. 53.5% of the ND frosh and 38% of the SMC frosh belonged to this organization. 
The ND Class of '73 contains 92 valedictorians, while there are 22 SMC girls who attained that honor. 
Notre Dame registered a significant increase in the number of black students. There are 29 black freshmen, with 3 blacks transferring from other colleges. 
U ES.-WED. SEPT.16-17 NOTRE DAME 4:15P.M.& 8:15P.M. 
THE MOST EXCITING GATHERING OF INTERNATIONALLY ACCLAIMED CIRCUS PERFORMERS IN THE 99 YEAR HISTORY OF THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH!!! 
STUDENT REDUCTION SAVE $1.00 ON TUES. & WED. 4:15PM S~IOWS ONLY 
TICKETS ON SALE AT: 
ATHLETIC & CONVOCATION CENTER 9-5 DAILY INCLUDING NOON HOUR 
LL SEATS RESERVED 
ALL LOWER ARENA--------$4.50 ATHLETIC & CONVOCATION UPPER ARENA (SIDE)------$3.50 
CENTER 
UPPER ARENA (END)-------$2.50 
THE OBSERVER WANTS YOU '• 
We need writers, salesmen, managers, and editors. With us Interest counts more than experience. 
Stop by our offices In Lafortune Student Center 
or reply by mail to Box II Notre Dame 
and we'll contact you. 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1969 
711E OBSERVER 
PAGE 3 
Rally slated today for new political coalition 
(continued from page I) 
keep us out." 
Students Against Racism arc adopting a similar method of presentation to freshmen. Students will be manning tables covered with literature and will be available for discussion in four halls at Notre Dame, one hall at St. Mary's, and in the old ISO room, I D, in the Student Center, today through Sunday. 
Individuals from Students Against Racism were involved in the sending to the parents of freshmen the letter concerning racism at Notre Dame and in society and an urging to help in combatting it. 
Ed Roickle, a member of the group, explained the purpose in this manner: 
"We are trying to get people to think about the racist nature of our society and of our university in particular. We are trying to promote a dialogue between the people from Students Against Racism and the rest of the students as a first step in an educational process we plan to continue throughout the 
year. 
John Wilson, a leader of the group, felt that change will come about at Notre Dame only when "we change the institutions of Notre Dame we see as racist and also by at t a eking the attitudes and ignorance of white students that these institutions both reflect and propagate." 
Responding to a question of why he considers Notre Dame a racist university, he replied: 

"Because it seems to be very attitudes in themselves might for them makes them racist." one dimensional in its approach not be racist, but the fact that The four Notre Dame halls are to standards and values which they are being forced down Morrissey, Dillon, Alumni, and are strictly white middle class other student's throats in which Keenan-Stanford and the St. and narrowly Christian. The the attitudes hold no relevance Mary's hall is Regina. 
Credit where credit is due 
Indiana Bell Telephone Co. 
In addition to the student's
out that it is the responsibility
has issued credit cards to all St. 
name and card number, the 
Mary's and Notre Dame students of each student to keep his telephone company has a record this year. The move was made, credit number private. of each student's home address, the company said, to facilitate Formerly, in order to make a as well as the names of the long distance calling and billing. long distance call, the student student's parents. 
When making a long distance had to either call collect, use a All students will receive the call on the credit card, the personal Bell credit card, or call credit cards, although the student will give the operator his from a pay phone. The telephone company pointed out number which is assigned on the 
introduction of credit cards is that some of the cards have not basis of college I.D. The first of also expected to decrease the been mailed. Any student not 
each month the student will be number of long distance calls receiving the card should contact billed for all calls charged to his made from pay phones which the business office in South credit card. Indiana Bell pointed are not paid for in the booth. Bend. 

aro 




to 
Just drop a film cartridge into a Kodak lnstamatic camera and save Carol before she starts saving for someone else's college education. Save her in beautiful color snapshots or color slides. Indoors, pop on a flashcube. It's that simple. 
Kodak lnstamatic"'color cameras. From less than sJo. 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1969
PAGE 4 
THE OBSERJJER. 
EVOLUTION AT l{OTREDPME 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper TIMOTHY J. O'MEILIA, Editor-in-Chief DONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Executive Editor DAVID M. BREEN, Business Manager FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

Reality and illusion 
The campus is a groovy place to be. Bigger and better education absorbs bigger and better students every year at this time: Notre Dame is doing that now, and St. Mary's will begin that tomorrow. For the next five days, ND-SMC will fete the class of '73 and their parents: lectures, welcomes and aids to getting settled will swallow the hours. Most pictures will be rosy, and the food will taste 
relatively good. Illusion is the name of the game, but the rest of the year will follow this week. Reality is the name of that. 
The Notre Dame or St. Mary's that you know are painted from football stadiums, from glossy brochures, from dark bars populated by subway alumni and from the fond, if somewhat inaccurate, memories of old grads. There is no such place. 
A university is its people as the June issue of the Notre Dame Alumnus proclaims on its cover, and to typify the people the list of words would run, from left to right, including idealists, cynics, dropouts, pooh bahs and people who watch television 24 hours a day seriously. But superceding these categories, there exists a growing number of people who are frustrated, discontent and at various times enraged with the reality of the place as it is. As it exists! 
For all its public relations descriptions and images, there still stands an oppressive community where existing democratic structures muddle along rhetorically or are by-passed completely, where problems are solved by issuing decrees or by 141-page treatises, but none of the oppression disappears. 
Notre Dame-St. Mary's presses on as an educational institution proyiding barriers to the students actually obtaining an education, and the term "intellectual community" would never be defined if it were dependent on this plot of ground. 
Scholarship and the intellectual community cannot prevail where in loco parentis exists, where the faculty senate has no power and things like racism go unconfronted and undiscovered. 
There are more problems, and there are more com:reu!~ manifestations of the problems pointed out. Amidst all of the realities, the giat solution looms: melt into the passivity of Joe College rooting for the Fighting Irish. But this, unhappily, is the greatest part of the reality. 
This is merely a message in a bottle, however, it will not cancel the "Official Welcome". The illusion may very well carry on through until November 22, the final football game. But self-discovery is the most convincing knowledge anyway. And you will discover and be convinced. As the sign says, "Welcome, Freshmen, You are here." 
.. 
THE OBSERfJER. 
The opinions expressed in the editorials, news analyses, and columns of The Observer are solely those of the authors and editors of The Observer and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administrations, faculties or student bodies. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students ot the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dar:ne, Ind., 46556. Secong class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
(reprinted with revisions from volume Ill, number 1) 

Guy DeSaf11o 
The letter 
If you asked the parents of the close to I 700 Freshmen converging on the Notre Dame campus today what they had heard about Notre Dame since their son applied here last fall you would probably get two responses. The first would have something to do with football -either that Notre Dame lost an important game to Purdue early in the season, got beat by arch rival Michigan State, or tied Southern Cal in an exciting game on the coast. The second would be that Father Hesburgh took one of the toughest stands on campus violence of any administrator in the country. 
With the statements on football no one rould take any exception. 
Notre Dame is given some of the finest press coverage in the country on its football team and in football it is not very hard to see who has lost or won. 
Father Hesburgh's letter though is a different story, because no paper reported much of the background behind it -and the game's not really over so it is still hard to tell who's really won or lost -if anyone. 
Father Hesburgh himself takes exception with the press coverage of his letter. It's not a "get tough" policy, he daims, but simply an attempt to set some guide lines for student protest. An attempt, he hopes, at introducing a rational alternative to the violence that has plagued other college campuses. 
Hesburgh's position is that any protest which "substitutes force for rational persuasion" will be broken up by giving the participants fifteen minutes in which to cease and desist their actions. If at the end of that time they do not they will be asked to turn in their I.D. cards and will be suspended. They will be given five more minutes in which to leave the premises. If they still do not they will be expelled, "assumed not to be members of the community" "be charged with trespassing and disturbing the peace", "and tr~ated accordingly by the law." 
Now the reaction by Notre Dame students to the letter was mild. A great number agreed with it. Only a few openly opposed it. But a great number agreed with Senator Eugene McCarthy who commented that the proposal reminded him of a leader of an all girl's band who threatened to fire any girl he caught chewing 
tobacco. 
A lot of students believe that the ruling was just not needed here. But rules are rarely made because of a threat from the majority of people--they are made because of a threat from the minority . And the administration, which saw recruiting on campus by Dow Chemical and the CIA disrupted last year by a sit-in, seems to think that it is necessary. 
The issue of whether or not th'! policy is needed is an old one; and whether or not it is, it is here to stay. No one hopes it will really be used or tested. But if it is not to be then it is the obligation of the administration to begin to emphasize more fully the parts of the letter which did not receive national publicity. 
There were promises of opening more fully channels of communication between the alienated student and the administration. There were promises of hard work on the part of administrators and students to improve the quality of the Notre Dame community. There were promises for a new era of student-administrator relations at Notre Dame. 
It is those things that are to be looked forward to this year. No violence. Civility, rationality, reason. It is going to take hard work on both sides. But if you ask Ara, that's how you win football 
games. 

THE OBSERVER. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1969
PAGE 6 
Six 'laughers' grace Irish schedule, 
For the first time sinL:e the famous Hanratty-Seymour duo hit the airways, the Notre Dame offense will be a question mark. Nine regulars from the fabulous offensive squad from last fall have departed including Hanratty, Seymour, A II-A meri can tackle George K unz and the entire starting baL:kfield. 
In the year of the wishbone--T and the veer offense the Irish touchdown producers will be an anachronism, a throwback to Woody Hayes' days of three yards and a cloud of dust. 
With half a dozen bruising straight ahead runners the Irish will run, run, run. In fact the Notre Dame backfield set may sport three runners who may bery well have been fullbacks at any other school. What few breakaway runners the Irish have will probably not crack the starting lineup. 
Top line returnees from the offensive team which amassed 500 yards per game and averaged more than 37 points are senior All-American prospects Larry DiNardo and Jim Reilly. Reilly (6-2, 230) and DiNardo (6-1 by 
243) along with senior center Mike Oriard will furnish considerable bulk :~nd experience on one side of the line. Oriard ( 6-3, 215) started the final half of the season. 
Six-four, 200-pound senior Dewey Poskon has moved into the tight end position but sopohomore Tom Gatewood has been a pleasant surprise at the split end slot. 
Fullback Jeff Zimmerman, plagued by· injuries last season after a fine sophomore season, will head the running attack with five or six runners vying for the other two spots. At present, senior Ed Ziegler looks like the choice for one slot and 
sophomore Andy Huff will man the other slot if his injuries heaL Senior Dennis Allan and sophomores Bob Minnix (the only breakaway threat) and John "Cisco" Cieskowski are contesting the top three and who will actually start in the backfield against Northwestern next weekend is at best a calculated guess. 
Guard Gary Kos and tackle Chuck Kennedy are the top prospects for the vacated spots on one side of the line. 
If the Irish runners will be the Jim Taylor-type, scrambling Joe Theismann (as in Heisman) will he the darling of the fans. Now a junior, Theismann ( 170) started the final three games for Notre Dame last year for an injured Terry Hanratty and engineered the tie with Southern Cal and 
O.J. Simpson. 
Theismann's arm is more than adequate and his running is a pleasure to behold, if he can find enough receivers to catch his bullets. 
The defense, whose inexperience hurt the Irish early in the season, will be the strong point of the 1969 edition, in a Year of the Offense. 
The quickness and mobility of a pair of sophomore defensive ends will give Notre Dame something more than the size it's always had. Walt Patulski (6-5, 
235) and Fred Swendson (6-4, 
230) will be crucial to the Irish front four. All-American candidate Mike McCoy will return for his third season at defensive tackle. His perform anee in throttling Simpson in last fall's finale has earned the 6-5, 280-pounder several pre-season All-American selections. 
Sophomore Greg Marx was expected tu be the other tackle, but he broke his arm earlier this week and head coach Ara Parseghian and his staff have yet to make a decision on whether a make-shift arm protector will allow the youngster to play. Soph Mike Zikas has moved up. 
Captain Bob Olson heads the linebacker corps. He will team with Bob Neidert, Tim Kelly and Larry Schumacher to provide needed backup for the sophomorish front four. 
Chuck Zloch and John Gasser, both experienced, will be the starting defensive halfbacks with 
sophomore Clarence Ellis displacing former regular Don Heid at the safety slot. 
Notre Dame followers should know by October 18 whether the Irish will be national championship contenders as they must face Purdue, Michigan State, Army and Southern Cal, after opening with Northwestern. 
A brief look at the Irish opponents: 
Northwestern 
Despite the Wildcats' 1-9 mark last fall, Alex Agase's charges play dead for no one. The ·irish managed only a 7-0 halftime lead in Notre Dame stadium last fall before eking out a 27-7 win. _,. 
NOTICE 
The office of Teacher Preparation is now located in Room I II0 East in the Memorial Library. 
Eugene A. Campanale Associate Director Office of Teacher Preparation 
283-8562 
Junior Dave Shelbourne tops 
the Wildcat attack. As a soph,_hc 
completed I 05 passes for 1 ,35S 
yards and seven touchdowns. 
Although Northwestern is 
expected to have added some 
speed in the backfield, the 
Wildcat offensive damage will be 
done through the skyways. 
Whether Shelbourne will have 
enough time to get off his aerial 
bombs is the question. Only one 
offensive lineman returns. 
An inexperienced defensive line will be backed by a tough set of returning linebackers, but the defensive secondary has graduated. 
Although the Wildcats play tough, Theismann should have the opportunity to test his passing game without too much threat and the runners should be off to a fine start. Notre Dame should open with a well earned, if not exciting, victory. 
Purdue 
Jack Mollenkopf has beaten Ara Parseghian twice in a row, three of the last four years, and is the only coach to hold a winning record over Parseghian since he came to Notre Dame in 1964. 
One thing is certain. T!le Boilermakers will not score 37 points on the Irish this fall. Seven possibly eight offensive starters will be missing, beginning with Leroy Keyes. However there are reserve lettermen available to fill every position. 
Mike Phipps, a genuine All-American prospect at the signal-calling spot, is one of the returnees, however. Speedy John Bullock, from Keyes' hometown, will try to fill the great's vacated slot 
Phipps has completed half of 412 passes in two years, and outdueled Hanratty two years ago in Lafayette. 
Mollenkopf "feturns eight defensive starters from a defense which yielded nearly I 7 points per game and more than 300 yards. All-American middle guard Chuck Kyle is gone. But the Boilermakers return a pair of excellent linebackers. Irish fans will remember Veno Paraskevas and Dick Marvel returns after injuries. 
The Purdue line is large and ponderous, but can be outquicked. Parseghian wants this one--the Irish should celebrate in Lafayette. 
Michigan State 
Colorful Duffy Daugherty promises a colorful offense, the latest fashion in collegiate offenses, the veer offense and the triple option. Duffy spent half the winter and spring on the phone with Darrell Royal of Texas who invented the wishbone-T utilizing the triple option. 
The only problem is that it requires four studs in the backfield. Duffy may have them, and what's more frightening, the line to go with it. 
Quarterback Bill Triplett can run and pass, the ideal man to run the triple option attack Tlte Spartans are chin-strap deep in quality running backs beginning with Tommy Love, Don Highsmith and fullback Gary Parmentier (moving from rover) and ending with frosh sensation Eric Allen, Earl Anderson and Kermit Smith. 
The offensive, line is experienced and rumor has it Duffy considers it the finest he has had in a long while. The defense returns much strength, particularly at linebacker. 
Probably the weakest part of the Spartans this fall early will be the defensive secondary, which is all new. 
End and linebacker play will be crucial against the Spartans, and the inexperience of the two Irish sophomore ends could hurt. Theismann should be able to throw against Michigan State but the success of the running game will be important. This is one of the few games the Irish could lose. 
Army 
Tom Cahill will have to pull another phenomenal coaching job out of his hat is Army is to be on the same field at the conclusion of the October 4 clash in Yankee Stadium. 
Eight regulars are gone from the defense and there are comparatively no lettermen to take up the slack. Last fall's frosh squad will add little. 
Army has expereenced runners headed by captain Lynn Moore but no quarterback is in sight. Notre Dame should win before a nice Eastern crowd. 
Southern Cal 
The Trojans have won only one time in South Bend since 1939, two years ago when O.J. Simpson and his national champions handed Parseghian his worst defeat as Irish coach. 
Like Notre Dame, Southern Cal will be strongest on defense and Johnny McKay suspects that this year's defense will be better than 1967's. Only two are missing but USC is deep and 
NEED A PHONE? 
Indiana Bell Business Office available on 2nd floor of Admin. Bldg. Monday and Tuesday (during Registration) 
THIS IS THE LAST TIME YOU'LL SEE THIS AD. Because we're not static--we're alive--we keep pace with the scene at Notre Dame We're WSND (You'll find us at 640 on your AM dial) We're the "Sound One" at Notre Dame: -we play your music -news on the hour (campus and national) -thorough coverage of the Fighting Irish Plus much more • • • Turn us on We'll do the same for you 
WSND-640-No~eDame 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1969 
PAGE 7
THE OBSERVER---='---­
but who's laughing at Fat Jack? 
should have little trouble filling the spots. 
M~.:Kay will revert to the 1962 offense whkh brought him his first national title now that Simpson has graduated. Sophomore and former prep All-American Jimmy Jones will probably take over the quarterbak slot and ~.:omrnand the Trojans roll-out option offense. 
With no one around to replace 
O.J., the Trojan running game will no longer fo~.:us solely on the tailha~.:k in the I. M~.:Kay always finds adequate runners. The receivers are ex~.:eptional with Bob Chandler and Sam Di~.:kerson the best. 
Four of the five interior olfcnsive linemen arc returning incuding All-A merica n hopeful Sid Smith (270) at tackle. 
As always, the Trojans arc game for anyone and the Irish will find beating them their toughest task this fall. 
Tulane 
Students, players and coaches alike will find the trip to New Orleans pleasant as Notre Dame will doubtless humble the Green Wave on a clear night in the Sugar Bowl. 
Corning off a 2-8 season in Jim Pittman's fourth year of rebuilding, Tulane is laden with sophomores who will relegate regulars from last year to the second learn. 
Quarterback Wayne Francingues ran and threw for I,376 yards hut will have to win the job from lransfer Dave Abercrombie.The Green W 
The Green Wave will probably start three other first year men in the backfield. rour of seven linemen .may also be sophomores. 
Tulane's defense last fall was horrendous. But sophomores will add size and speed, if not experience. Three linebackers return to support a line whi~.:h 
will sport four newcomers. The 
secondary is fair. 
No matter how much sophomoric talent Tulane possesses, they should make enough mistakes to keep Ara happy, and even if they don't, Tulane is a year or two away from mu~.:h over a .500 record. 
Navy 
Whenever a coach sums up his suuad's prospecls with something like "we hope our attitude and aggressiveness will help nullify our weaknesses" then you know he's in trouble. 
Navy's Rick Forzano said something like that and the Middies arc in trouble. To help shore up a porous defense, Frozano moved the offensive line to defense in his new 4-3 alignment. The secondary is questionable. 
The intenor offensive line is seasoned and the Navy strong suit, if that's an accurate description, will be the 
and will be lucky to field a team by this date in the season with its lraditionally horendous schc~ulc. Pitt Stadium will be unhappy for at least another 
game. 
Georgia Tech 
The Irish will face another group of sophomores in Atlanta for a nationally televised night game Nov. 15. But by this point in the season, Georgia Tech head coach Bud Carson may have already lost his job. 
Quarterback is the big question as high school sensation Charlie Dudish has not glittered nearly so much since he hit the Tech campus. Soph tailback Brent Cunni ngha rn is the brightest spot in the Yellow Jackel backfield. 
The offensive line will be spotty with sophs and non-lettermen placd here and there. The defense will be overloaded (at least seven) with sophs and non-lettermen. 
well-balanced. 
The cold November air will not frighten the Colorado Springs-based club and after a number of routs the Air For~.:e should provide a welcome 
season-ending  clash  with  some  
competition.  
The  Irish  should  win  six  or  

seven of their games without even putting on their equipment. Navy, Pitt, Georgia Tech, Tulane, Northwestern and Army arc simply weak. Southern Cal is definitely Top Ten material and Duffy's Spartans may surprise a few people. Purdue is weaker than last fall and Air Force is a true dark horse. 
A fairly successful year will mean nine wins; six wins will be 
a disappointment. 
End of legend 
Could it be that 1\.nule Rockne has gone the way of the Galloping Ghost, the 5 cent offensive. 









With no quarterback and beer, and the Chicago Cubs? 
The Irish should have little 
many sophomores, Tech will not St. Mary's traditional
trouble punching through even a 
frighten many people and the freshmen orientation 
re-designed Navy defense, so 
Irish should enjoy a victory on opener--the film, "Knutc 
homecoming for the old grads 
Rockne-All Amcrican" has beennational TV.
will be a happy one.
BLOW YOURSELF UP 
taken out of the program this year.
Air Force 
There seems to be two
Pittsburgh

Send any black &white or color If any club on the schedule is conflicting theories as to whyphoto up to 8" x 10" (no nega­
Pitt will tryout another new a question mark it is Air Force. the film won't be shown. One tives) and the name "Swingline" 
-::oach on its horrendous The Flyboys return 17 starters says that the film which is pretty cut from any Swingline stapler or 
schedule, Carl DePasqua, who from last fall's 7-3 club, but this old, just fell apart-literallystaple refill package to: Poster­
claims he will hearken back the year's schedule is a killer. disintegrated. The other is that Mart, P. 0. Box 165, Woodside, 
days of block and tackle. Tackle Ed Epping will !toad the film was misplaced. 
N.Y. 11377. Enclose cash, 
Eighteen of 22 regulars return the Falcons on defense and they Either way, we mourn its check or money order (no 
from last fall's 1-9 club, but permitted only 156 points last passing--­C.O.D.'s) in the amount of $2.00 
plenty of sophomores will cra~.:h fall. The offense will be ...¥¥¥¥¥....¥¥¥¥¥­for each blow-up; $4.00 for 
the lineup. blow-up and frame as shown. 
If the Panthers have a Add sales tax where applicable. 
strength, it will be defense as Original material returned 
Who's on the fifty?
veterans stick out at virtually 
undamaged. Satisfaction 
every position. guaranteed. Allow 30 days 
Despite the return of the entire offense, DePasqua will As every incoming freshman students will be sitting togetherfor delivery. 
knows, fall at Notre Dame
start several first-year men on in the same sections. SMC girls means more than registration will follow the same sectional
the line. Quarterback is 
uncertain though the remainder and a trip to the bookstore. The seating arrangement by class as Fighting Irish will soon begin the Notre Dame students.
of the backfield is certain. Pitt is expecting no miracles their '69 campaign for the St. Mary's student tickets will national football championship. be distributed during registrationNo t r e D a m e fa c e s a
1-------------_, Monday and Tuesday.
WELCOME FRESHMEN! 
demanding fiw-game home Notre Dame freshmen may schedule against Northwestern, obtain their student football 
AND OLD TIMERS! 
Michigan State, Southern ticket on Thursday, September California, Navy and Air Force. 18 between 2:30 and 6:30. 
N.D. Barbershop Hrs. 8:00 
This season for the first time Ti~kets will be issued at Gate 14 Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
of the stadium. 
a.m. to 4:45 Sat. 8:00 a.m. to 
To obtain his ticket, each
CHESS PLAYERS! 
student mus present the Athletic
Try correspondence chess for
11:45 Open 5% days a week 
Certification card issued to him study for game improvement. 
fun, relaxation and leisurely 
at registration.
Serving N.D. men over 100 
Free information-join 
rreshmen will sit in section Chartered Chess-1312 "B" 
33 and 34. Seats will be assigned
the palm. Portable. ONLY $1.69. W1th 1000 staples, $1.98. 
Street-Hayward, California
years. 
within the sections; if a group of 
94541. 
students wishes to sit together, they must present their 
OPEN /lOUSE Rh'STA URANT-llOLY CROSS 
cerlifkations at the same time. 
One student may obtain the tickets for as many as three 
HOT PIZZAS AND SANDWICHES 
SUN. TJIRU THURS. 6 p.m.-/ a.m. 
other students by presenting all
FRI. & SAT 6 p.m.-2 a.m. 
four certifications. 
Student Union Social Commission 
. p~sents 
DIONNE WARWICK 
In concert with 
Wood'/ Herman Saturday, September 20th 8:00 p.m. 
Athletic and Convocation Center 
Tickets $5, $4, $2 on sale at Convocation box office Gilbert's Bookstore 


r 
PAGE 8 
THE OBSERVER. 

MONOGRAM CHECKBOOK 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1969 

Stop In today and ask us how you can have a free ND Monogram Checking Account I 
••••• this coup• todlly" 
You'll get more for your money banking at the St~ Joe-everyone doesI 
r--------------------------------­
St. Joseph Bank & Trust Company South Bend, Indiana 46601 
Please send information on NO Monogram Checkbook Accounts. 
Name__________________________________ 
NO Address_____________________________ 
City___________State -------­
