
Make itM cKennol 
Monday the OBSERVER endorsed Phil McKenna. We would like to reiterate that endorsement, and urge the student body to elect McKenna SBP today. He has proven that he has the courage of his convictions in the past. We trust McKenna's judgment and admire his pcrseverence. 
lie has campaigned off campus this year, visiting students in their homes. But more than that he has an interest in their affairs and their almost non-existent part of the student body. He is interested in re-organizing the housing list and proposes to include a commissioner in his cabinet to deal specifically with the so-called "day dogs." 
lie has long been a supporter of hall autonomy and recognizes the place of the hall as the basis of community life. As chairman of the Hall Presidents' Council, McKenna was the prime author of the HPC' hall life report, from which the SLC report was drawn. We appreciate his dedication to student opinion in the past and have confidence in him in the future. 
His running mate Fred Dedrick has considerable experience in academic affairs, the most important part of a University community, having worked on it for two years and being a member of the Student Senate academic affairs committee. 
Further we arc extremely interested in McKenna's proposal of a University Senate. Though a long-range plan, it certainly deserves study and investigation now for implementation in future years. 
We ask the student body to consider that the Student Union President in a press conference admitted that the Pornography and Censorship Conference sponsored by the Academic Commission was a result of "poor planning." 
We ask you to consider McKenna's main 
opponent's proven recon.l and experience in student 
government (none). 
Finally we ask you to vote for Phil McKenna. 
THE WORLD TODAY 
Whitcomb signs twenty-two bills 
INI>IANAI'OLIS (UPI) Gov. Edgar Whitcomb yesterday signed 
22 hills, including a measure that makes glue sniffing a misdemeanor. 
lie also vetoed four bills. 
The measure concerning sniffing a type of glue used for 
construdion of model airplanes and similar purposes, was one of 
Whitcomh's anticrime package hills introduced in the I 969 legis­
lature. It makes usc of such glue to cause an intoxicated state, or 
assisting a person to do so, a crime. 

Ray enters Nashville prison for life 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. (UI'I) Wearing chains and true to the silent code of a convict, James Earl Ray took the secrets of the slaying of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. yesterday behind the walls of the Tl·nncsscc State Prison when· nearly half the inmates arc blacks. 
Ray, who pleaded guilty Monday in exchange for a 99 year Sl'nlcncc, was taken from his Shelby County Jail cell in Memphis at 5:30a.m., rushed to a highway patrol barracks ncar the county line, then sped 200 miles to Nashville in an eight car caravan. 
Ray will spend the next six weeks undergoing a series of tests, and at the end of that time it will be decided if he will be kept in maximum security or integrated with the other prisoners. 
The deal in which the 41 year old Ray was permitted to plead guilty in exchange for his life left the King caSl' shrouded in as much mystery as ever. 
At one point in the brief trial, Ray seemed on the brink of saying a conspiracy existed in the King slaying, but he stopped short saying, "I don't want to add something ... that I haven't agreed on in the past." 

Pelllng warns Soviets of destruction 
!lONG KONG (UPI) Radio Peking yesterday warned the Soviet 
Union that any attempt to invade Communist China would bring 
"fatal destruction." It said the Russians "already owe the Chinese 
peopk blood debts" which must be repaid. 
The warning caml' as Red China delivered a sternly-worded note 
to Soviet authorities about damages inflicted on the Chinese 
embassy in Moscow by demonstrators. 
The l'ek ing note contended Soviet officials had organized the 
''lkspicabll'" massive demonstrations hy Russians against the 
embassy in Moscow last wel'k. The demonstrators, who numhcrl'd in 
the tens of thousands, smashed windows and hurled ink bottles at 
the building. 


E OBSERVER 

Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community. 
VOL. Ill. No. 98 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 12, 1969 
SBP Poll Tighter! 
The third and final OBSERVER straw poll revealed still another narrowing of the gap between Student Body Presidential candidates John Mroz and Phil McKenna; the percentage difference has now dropped from five to two. As would be expected, the number of undecided voters has taken a sharp drop, while the number of Kendall supporters has remained 
the  same.  The  decrease  in  the  
number  of  undecided  was  
absorbed  in  part  by  those  

supporting "others", a category comprised mostly of Alan Apt or Kevin Smith supporters. 
Out of these 375 votes came three votes of "No." One student cxr-cssing this position 
0.8"/o

McGrath issues letter~~~::idedSOPHOMORES 6.9% 
on demonstrations 
Saint Mary's College President Msgr. John J. Md;rath issued a statement to Saint Mary's students and faculty members yesterday outlining steps to be taken in the event of a disruptive demonstration on the campus. The statement resulted from a study by the Academic Affairs Council and the Student Affairs Council. 
Student Body President Therese Ambrusko stated that the Student Affairs Council had studied Father Heshurgh's state­ment, but "did not agree with him that the Dean of Students should have the right to immed­iately judge a demonstration dis­ruptive. At Saint Mary's, except in cases of extreme emergency, the Dean of Students docs not have that right. She must consult 

Rev. John McGrath 

with student and faculty repre­sentatives from thl' Student Affairs Council." 
Miss Ambrusko said "I con­sider burning or bodily blocking a passageway interference with the normal operation of the col­lege. I do not consider picketing or marching a disruption." Dr. Mark Bambcnck, a faculty repre­sentative to thl' Student Affairs Council, stated: "In my opinion, moral suasion is not disruptive. If somconl· stopped me physi­cally from l'ntning a huilding, I Morrissey, and also lead solidly
commented that the Student in Howard, Lyons and Badin.
Body Presidential candidates 
Mroz, on the other hand,"have had nothing to say on repeated his strong performancelaundry or dining halls-what I 
on the freshman quad by
consider to be extremely dominatin& B-1'. Cavanaugh and
important issues." Another said 
OBSERVER POLL

that he "considered the office of Student Body President a John Mroz 145 38.7% superfluous and unnecessary Phil McKenna 136 36.3% one. Mike Kendall 16 
4.3% 
7.2%

In the previous polls, Mroz Other 27 10.1%
captured first sixteen and then undecided 48 thirteen out of twenty halls SENIORS polled. In this final poll 
John Mroz 18.3%
involving nineteen halls, Mroz 
Phil McKenna 43.3% and McKenna finished in a dead Others 
21.7% heat with each taking nine halls, Undecided 16.7% the remaining hall, Sorin, producing a tic. JUNIORS McKenna received his firmest John Mroz 29"/o support in his own hall, Phil McKenna 
46.1% 

would feel that my rights were violated. There would be no problem with what most people consider a peaceful demonstra­tion." 
Dr. Bambcnek said "I wish we didn't h<Jvc to issue the state­ment at this time. We felt that we h<Jd to, because of Father Hesburgh's statement and Saint Mary's involvement in the co­exchange program. Our hand, essentially, was forced." 
John Mroz 43.6% Phil McKenna 31.8"A. Others 10.9% Undecided 13.6% 
FROSH John Mroz 53.1% Phil McKenna 30.1% Others 0.6% Undecided 11.5% 
The percentage distribution with regard to individual classes remained approximately the same. McKenna made small gains in the Junior and Freshman cia sses. 
(Continued on Page 2) 
SMC Pres. on disruptions 
TO THE SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE COMMUNITY, 
As a result of serious study by both the Academic Affairs Council and the Student Affairs Council, the following policy regarding campus disruptions has been adopted. This policy takes full cognizance of the right to freedom and assembly. 
Any activity of a person or group of persons which constitutes a violation of the rights of any Individual or which interferes or Impedesthe normal operation of the community is hereby declared a disruption.
In the event of a disruption, the following procedure will be followed and enforced. The primary responsibility for judging a disruption rests in the hands of tho Dean of Students or i1er delegated alternate. In making this judgment, the Dean shall consult with student and faculty representatives from the Student Affairs Council. However, In cases of grave emergency, such as bodily harm being inflicted, property damage, or imminent danger thereof, the Dean Is empowered to act immediately. Once the decision has been made that a disruption exists, the Dean of Students shall notify the person or persons Involved that they are causing a disruption and must cease and desist. A Iter a IS·minute interval, those who have not ceased and desisted will be asked to properly identify themselves as members of the College community and are automatically suspended. Those who do not or will not properly identify themselves will be charged with trespass. If there is no movement to cease and desist after five minutes, any student under suspension will be expelled, any faculty member under suspension will be dismissed and treated as trespassers. All trespasserswill be dealt with by the civil authorities. 
All student appeals for suspension or expulsion shall be made to the Appellate Board according to the procedures established by the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities". Faculty members have recourse to the procedures as stated In the "Faculty Ma-nual". These appeals shall be judged within live (5) days.
The relationship between the academic community of Saint Mary'sCollege and that of Notre Dame University Is unique. Not only are cultural and social activities made available to the students and facultyfrom both institutions, but in recent years academic facilities, lectures, the use of libraries, etc. have been extended to all. The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community is In many ways a single community. 
Saint Mary's College recognizes the right of the Unlver51tY of Notre Dame to withdraw University privileges from a Saint Mary's student or faculty member In the event of their participation In disruptiveactivities on University grounds. The method of withdrawing such privileges and any appeal from such withdrawal shall be controlled bythe procedures of the University of Notre Dame. 
It should be noted that "the Saint Mary's College community 
reserves the right to take action against a student who Is found to be a 
threat to the College community as a re~)Jit of her off-campus 
activities... 

Saint Mary's College has, In turn, the right to withdraw similar 
privileges of any member of the Notre Dame community who 
participates in disruptive activities on Saint Mary's grounds. fhe 
method of such withdrawal and appeals shall follow the procedure
outlined above. 
Sincerely yours, 
John J. McGrath, President 

I I I I I. I 
PAGE 2 
THE OBSERVER 

In Alumni speaker series 


Hesburgh speaks at Alumni 
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, University President, went to the grass roots last night as he met with Alumni Hall residents in their own chapel at 9:00 p.m. The meeting, which was the first of an Alumni-planned weekly series, consisted entirely of informal questions and answers, and covered a myriad of topics, both campus-wide and national. 
VOTE 
Snoopy for student body dog . Porky for student body pig On the Charlie Brown platform 
Father Hesburgh opened by commenting, "It's good to see so many of you in church," and proceeded by answering the first query, which concerned his now-famous letter on campus violence. "The press rather loused up its treatment of the letter," he said, "but the main reason for it was this: the members of the community wanted me to do something on the subject of academic disturbances, with the stipulation that it be something fair. The result was my letter, which lays out one of the ground rules demanded by the community." The President 
remarked that his form of action 
was only one of several possible 
methods, but that he felt it was 
the best one. 
Hesburgh stressed the need 

for increased enrollment of 
minority groups, stating that 
"The improvement of ghetto 
high schools is far more 
important than the lowering of 
our admissions standards." He 
did advocate, however, special 
tutoring courses for 
underpriveleged freshmen for as 
long as needed. He also promised 
better food preparation in the 
dining halls, with the additional 
promise that "If the food isn't 
better next year, l'll go over 
~very night and eat it myself." 
Regarding the question of 

co-education at Notre Dame the 
President hinted that a cl~ster 
system of girls' colleges will 
probably happen before the 
University goes "internally 
co-ed." Several students 
expressed impatience with the 
present social structure, 
however, to which Hcsburgh 
replied, "I definitely agree that 
female companionship is 
necessary here, but people (i.e., 
Barat College) who said they 
would deliver didn't deliver." 
Hesburgh also acknowledged 

that the parietal hours resolution 
passed by the Student Life 
Council would be coming before 
the Board of Trustees in ten 
days, and that it would be "an 
uphill fight. But 1'1 do what I 
can." 
The University President concluded by expressing his faith in Notre Dame: "It's got a great tradition, which I think will be preserved. Contrary to what many people think, this place is not going broke, pagan, or to hell." 
Author 
threatens to sue 
The Student Union faces a 

possible law suit as a result of 
the unscheduled second 
performance of Ladv Godiva 
during the Pornogr~phy and 
Censorship Conference. 
Ronald Talvel, New York 

author of the play, announced 
that he has asked his agents to 
file suit against the Student 
Union for royalties owed him 
and for punitive damages. 
Talvel claims that the Student 

Union owes him $160 in 
royalties for the second 
performance of /.ady Godil'a 
and for the unscheduled 
performance of another play, 
The Secret Ufe of Juanita Castro. 
"They (the Student Union) 

paid for the first performance," 
Talvel said, "but they refused to 
pay for the second and third 
performances." 
"They pretended that on the 

one hand they had no contract 
and on the other hand that they 
were not responsible for the 
performance," he said. 
Talvcl claims that since the 

Union brought the play to 
campus they were the producers 
and so arc legally responsible for 
any performances on campus. 
He says that the Union, 
therefore, owes royalties for the 
two unscheduled performances. 
l.ady Godiva was brought to campus by the Student Union in connection with the 
(Continued on page 3) 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 12, 1969 



Chris Wolfe 
Racism? 

"Racism ('rii".siz em) a belief that race is the primary determinant of human traits and capacities and that racial differences produce an inherent superiority of a particular race" (p. 704, Webster's Seventh New Collegiate Dictionary). 
The use of this particular word at Notre Dame, in the SBP election and elsewhere, is more bothersome than all those four letter words of Vaceline, Uranus, et al. The latter are simply somewhat obscene and a childish gesture of rebellion to shock readers and 
attract  attention  to  the  users.  The  former  is  much  more  serious  
because  its application  to  Notre  Dame,  as  an  institution  or as a  
community, is libelous and defamatory.  

The charge of racism, institutional or otherwise, is based on an erroneous notion of what the word means, the use of it being justified on two (inaccurate) grounds. First, the community is said to be characterized by racial prejudice, e.g. people in the next room talking about "niggers" and "chummy" whites deserting blacks at mixers. 
Second, the argument goes, blacks start out with an unequal educational opportunity and therefore any institution which docs not try to help equalize that opportunity significantly is institu­tionally racist. On this point Notre Dame is said to give only token support to the equalization of opportunity. 
It is proper to study the truth of these accusations, of course; but another question must be raised which goes beyond the truth of the individual charges. There arc students at Notre Dame who say "nigger" and avoid blacks at mixers, and Notre Dame's aid to blacks will not equalize opportunity for them overnight, or even this year. But what must be noted is that, even were they I 00% true. neither of these constitutes grounds for a charge of racism. It is debatable that many whites arc dislc·yal to black friends and it is dehatable that Notre Dame's admissions policy is unfair; these charges <trc bona fide expressions of opinion which deserve serious evaluation, though not necessarily agreement. 
The charge of racism, however, ought to be abhorred by any thinking individual, as being irresponsibly libelous, because the evidence on which the charge is based has nothing to do with a belief in the inherent superiority of whites over blacks. 
The question then becomes "why do people employ this particular word?" The answer is found in the usc which can be made of the overtones of "racism." It has connotations, intermingled, of Hitler, fascism, apartheid, a disproven, unscientific theory, the stereotype of the Southern "bad guy" who says "nigger" and admits that he uses it derogatorily. These connotations make the charge of racism particularly strong language, and justifiably so, for racism is a thoroughly evil belief. 
The word, then, because of these strongly derogatory connota­tions, can be used to degrade an opponent and make people fearful of saying things which may bring down upon their heads that charge. In fact, it is used at Notre Dame for that purpose -to degrade anyone who opposes any black dc.mand, no matter what the demand or the reason for opposition. In many ways, the whole usc is similar to the use of "communist" by Joe McCarthy in the early 1950's, when he tried to frighten people into acting a particular way by making extreme charges against so many people. There was a certain hysteria against opponents too, that is present now. 
The result is that anyone who opposes any black demand is ( H itlerian, a bigot, unChristian) ... a racist. Moreover, it has reached the point where anyone who says that Notre Dame is not a racist institution is ... somehow ... a racist. 
Run Your Own Ad 
For St. Patrick's Day 
Say hello to her through 
the News Media! 
Three Lines -$1.00 Six Lines -$1.75 
example 

To Marian M. Finnegan's vvake, and teriyaki steak -Patrick Henry 
Come up to the OBSERVER BUSINESS OFFICE Second Floor LaFortune Any Afternoon This Week 
Anyone interested in the Draft Counselor Training Session March 14-16 Call 1768 Today 





THIS 
SAVE! 
on New & Used Cars 1969 GTO 
400 cc H.D. 3sp., wide oval, radio, buckets, heater, custom interior. ........... $2824 
1969 FIREBIRD 
350 cc, 3sp., wide ovals, radio, huckets. custom interior ... $2649 See DAN TUTKO (class of '67) at WELTER PONTIAC 3:30 to closing 


WEEKEND... 
Collegiate JAZZ Festival 
FRIDAY and SATURDAY 
1:30 and 7:30pm; Stepan Center 
Featuring the Nation's Best 
College Jazz Groups 


COMBOS af~'f,S 
De Paul Illinois Central Ball State Michigan State 
U. of Illinois Case Western Reserve 
U. of Chicago Memphis State 
M.I.T. M.I.T. Michigan State U. of Illinois Memphis State U. ofN. Iowa North western U. of Missouri 
Ball State 
TICKETS 
Afternoon sessions $1.00 
Evening sessions $3.00 
All 4 sessions $4.50 
Dining Halls Tonight & Thursday and af the door 


THE OBSERVER.

WEDNESOP,Y, MARCH 12, 1969 
.~~~~,Co~,~~~":!~.~ L...~ l"~'~..t "~,,~,s...~.~..,~ ~'~"'""''· 
of n:asonn, and who hegins his

Fat her lies burgh's much-11raised gel-tough 11olicy
' 
took it on the chin this week from a pair of national lublicalions.
l 
L cad e d i 10 r i a 1s in weal and The National
Ct11 n111011 Catholic NetJorter criticize(.) the Notre Dame JHcsidenl for failing to ··onfront the is·s·ttcs· rat·s·cd l'y
~ ' 
ca111JlUS dissidents. 
Thl' NCR says llesburgh's stand is f()llnded on un un.~upportcu assumption, i.e.,
"It t<tkes <ts granted thut the university, along with the society of which it is a part, i.~ worth preserving." The editorial points out that llcsburgh is then "free to treat student radic,·tls as suhoteurs of all that is good <tnd holy." II is the NCR's point thul what is "good and holy" is not necessarily found in today's serular universities, or at Notre D" llll'. From the above assumption, according to NCR, "It th.:n h.:comcs part of the ll'rhniqlll' lo acknowlcugc that real issues exist in our 'often non-glorious civilization,' and to ronccde thut students who audn~ss these issues seriously 

"Godiva" author threatens libel against Union for performaces 
(Continued from pa,;e 2) 
I' o rnography and Censorship Conference. In was scheduled to be performcu in Wushington Hall on two SUl'ccssive evenings. The first night performance went on as scheduled. 
After the confiscation of the film "Koduk (;l10st Poems" by the South Bend police, the Student lJ nion cancelled the remainder of the conference, including the second performance of Lady Godiva. 
The Union ut that time tcrminateu their contract with The Playhouse of the Ridiculous, the acting company which put on the pluy. After d is~.:ussions with various students not affiliated with the Union, the <tcling wmp;1ny uecidcd to perform the play anyway in the Student Center. The following night the ucting compuny put on 
ThC' St•cret 1.1/e vf Juanita 
Castm, another play by Talvel. 
Student Union Vicc-l'rcsiuent 
Bill Walle, commenting on the 
issue, said that the Student 
Union was "not rcully worried 
about <tction on the suit." 
Wade saiu that he had called 
Talvel and explaincu to him that 
he felt that he lwd "no grounds 
for the suit." 
W~lk said that the Student 
Union lwd signed a termination 
agreement with the l'l<tyhousc of 
the Ridiculous which protects 
the Union. In the agreement, 
The Playhouse of the Ridiculous 
had waivcu its rights to sul' fur 
breach of contrad and agreed 
that neither the Student Union 
or the University would he held 
rcsponsihk for any subsequent 
produdion of the play. 
Wade said that the second 
performance of the play was not 
made under the "auspicics of the 
Student Union." Therefore, the 
Union is nul responsible for 
paying for the perfornwncc. 
Wade audeu that the <tcling 
company had del~lc~> put ~~­
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box ll, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 
motives 'ide<tlism, generosity,
.
dcd1cation and service."' 
..
111c paper describes these udmissions as "not so much 
g"ncrotts a d d.
~ s con cscen mg howevcr, bec<tusc the issues 
· d 
ra1sc in the campus revolt arc not treated with real seriousness ... hut urc only mentioned in 
. . 
I lccling fushion und vuguc, non-commital terms. "What radicul students do,
howevc·r, in C<JI)Iras·t Wl.lh wh,·tt they llll·nk, is s·•lclled <lLtt l·n Vl·v,·d
' 
<tnd scornful language. When sluuents lulk like radical social 
critics they arc given a put on 
the head 'it's nice to sec that 
you're concerned, lad.' When they translate their criticism into disruptive action, they become instant monsters." 
NCR editors maintain, "There is something anomalous about the llcsburgh letter. The university's right to defend itself and to expel dissident members from the academic community is grounded on the rontention that the university is genuinely an open society, rull'd by traditions of civility, respect for the rights of all anu obedience to the rule of rcuson . . . Anyone who 
play on on their own. he also said tnat a Notre Dume junior, Bill McElroy, had arranged for the usc of the Stuuent Center and at the lim~ had ugrced to be responsible for the performance. 
defense by begging the question is not going to be very persuasive to those who know what the 
question is." 
"Father Hesburgh's stand," 1he editorial ~;onlinues, "wus bound to uppcal to !'resident Nixon and to nwkc u favorublc 
. . . . 
Impression m t11c 11vmg rooms of suburban mnch houses und hlue collar bungalows. To students 
who know tlwl Futher Hesburgh
1 h · 1 · 
1<JS rums cnoug 1 to gr<tsp tls
1 tt
1 1 11· 
con en ' IS e er was one more predictable establishmentarian
performance, one more " 
non-response.
What is it that Hcsburgh should have saiu'! 
The editors suggest: "Well, for one thing he might have said what he himself really thinks 
about the war in Vietmtm." The indictment presented by radir<tl students says, according to NCR, "1 hat the war goes 011 in its humbling murderous fashion because people who know it should stop will not risk even saying so, inhibited as they arc 

STEPAN CENTER 
Dance Spectacular 
•••••• DIRECT FROM PNGLAND ••• ••• 
THE 

SPENCER DAVIS GROUP 
"(lim me Some Lovin"-"Somebody 1/elp Me"c· "I'm A Man" 
PlUS 

THE CAMBRIDGE FIVE 
WEDNESDAY MARCH 12, 1969 
7· 30 to II :OOPM Adm. $2.50 
ultractcd as they arc by the comfortuhleness of ambiguity. 'The indiclmcnl spl·cificalty includes American universities,
h. h u f f" d

w 1c arc accuse o pro oun complicity in a massive act of moral evasion." 
The Kunsas City based weekly puts this 11uestion to llesburgh:
..,
"Given the existence of such 
convictions, given also the 
evidence that peaceful prokst 
and politH:ul action <tre futile, 
robbed of meaning by a 
dec<tdent party system, what 
kind of behavior would Father llcsburgh commend to those who believe the war is wrong? What promise docs he give them <Jf l11·s own sup11ort, of Notre
' Dat11c's?" ·r11e editors take care to point out that "the point of these comml'nts is not that universities don't necu rules ... rather it is that the country needs to hear something more from its Father llcsburghs besides pious phrases in defense of civility." 
(Continued 01111a,;e 4) 
PAGE 3 
TONIGHT­
"FIRST FRIDAY" 
in Concert SMC Coffee House 
9:00 Ill 
CDNTDURA 
with Diarr onds r f 
UltimatP E.~aut:r ... 
Illustration Enlarged 
Her fondest dreams come true when you choose a Contoura diamond bridal set. 



by~~e~ 
L)iallwml Ompo7.t Co 
THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS 
WHOlfSAlE-SHN BY APPOINTMFNl 
PHONE 287-1427 



If Chevrolet can't haul it, maybe youtl better leave it. 
Under Chevrolet's hood you'll find the biggest standard V8 in its field-327 cubic inches of it. Or, you can order all the way up to our 390-hp 427-cubic-inch V8. And if that won't haul it, see our truck line. 
We have the right connec­tions for your trailering too. Like body /frame trailer hitches and trailer wiring harnesses. 
So drop down to your 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 12, 196~
PAGE4 
THE OBSERVER 


The Marrieds: A place in the sun
by Ted Price This is the third of a five part series on the through the listing the 0-C office provided and 
students at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. couldn't find anything decent. I just happened to Bringing your bride to South Bend hoping to end a few days househunting begins to look like c mistake of your life when all you can find arc kcr places that arc way out of range financially, others that you wouldn't use as a doghouse. real frustration comes when you begin to see hat most people, whether they are part of the lege community or from town, don't seem to about your plight. "We came up over Memorial Day weekend, and the latest lists fiom the Off-Campus Housing cc," reported one graduate student. "We start­out the next day at about 8 o'clock, and by n my wife and !'were ready to give up. We saw dirty slum housing for from $85 to $95 a than I ever thought existed. Some were cd buildings without a single unbroken pane glass." The Off-Campus Commission maintains lists of vailablc housing for students which arc updated odically. They are compiled by landlords and coming to· the office and answering a uestionnaire about the facilities offered. owevcr, the Commission specifics that such a should not be construed by students as any ype of guarantee. "We simply cannot check out any of the houses apartments we list," said Off-campus Com­ncr Mike Phelps. "We do have certain rds, such as lighting and so forth, whil~h the must agree to. But we don't try to drive nd the area to see which listings arc in the ttcr neighborhoods or look like they are more mfortable, etc. All we know about these places what the landlord says on the questionnaire." He added that the only criterion that the mmission mmy use to strike a listing is evidence that the landlord is discriminating by race or other standards. This is the only type of guarantee implied in a Commission listing. Many students said that they found the Com­mission listings inadequate and turned to the classified section of the local newspapers. How­ever, they often found that rents being asked here were out of the question. "I looked around for almost three weeks before blasses began," said a junior. "I quickly ran 
dub policy •·•delusionary... non-response" 
(Continued from page 3) 
It is NCR's opm10u that the NCR concludes 
Hcsburgh letter will have word plus editorial: 
"effects contrary to its author's both Father Hcsburgh 
intent-it will help radical students who suggested the idea 
recruitment, and it may understand that non-violence as 
encourage backlash. At the least, understood by Gandhi and King 
it will not make the contribution is not just a way of keeping the 
to public understanding of the natives quiet, but 
generation gap crisis which one making an intolerable status quo 
might have hoped for from this collapse." 
particular president of Notre Commonweal 
Dame." they call "Hesburgh's 
The editorial also criticizes "delusionary," claiming that he 
llesburgh for failure to i~suc the who believes that "discipline is 
policy through the Student Life the key to controlling 
Council, but praises the problems of campus, secular or 
proposed "student-originated, Catholic" is casting about in a 
Hesburgh-endorscd program to "fool's paradise." 
inaugurate a department for the The editorial suggests that study of non-violent means of "the notion of student influence resolving human conflict." and meaningful reform arc keptrUnoff SS"'bl subordinate to old ideals of po I e discipline. Students are to be 
continued from page 1 taught in what amounts to an 
atmosphere of benevolent 
As OBSERVER statistics had repression , with the 
it last night, although they arc administration shielded from all 
mighty close, none of the save the mildest of pressure from 
leading candidates for SBP have students frequently more 
a majority support of the sensitive to social and political 
studc ··t body. According to urgencies than the universities 
Official Election Rules, there august directors." 
must be, in fact, over fifty per The magazine says, "Crisis 
cent of the total votes cast will loom so long as 
behind the winning ticket. If conventional policies keep 
present trends continue, Catholic ca mpuscs almost 
Wednesday's results could force lily-white, so long as recruiters 
the final decision for the next for questionable agencies and 
Student Body President to be companies have free a~.:ccss to 
made this Friday. the student body, so long as 
The rules state in the case of ROTC units troop about campus the absence of majority decision, training officers for dirty wars, the two candidates having the and so long as tics arc most votes will be placed in a maintained with alumni and run-off election two days others that foster evils like afterwards, with no write-ins institutional racism. The 
allowed. Catholic university is a tainted 
but it will not be adopted by the perceptive university nor tolerated by students with a sophist i catcd sense of the collateral responsibilities of thl~ university administration." 
"If Notre Dame or any Catholic university has a future worth anticipating, it will have 
substantial:y larger percentages of students demanding, like their counterparts on the secular campus, an authl~nticify and 
commitment purer than that presently known." 
As docs NCR, Common weal reassures all that its goal is not a rulclcss university, but insists 
that "before the university administration Jays down its fascist dicta, it look to itself and the policks which justify the grievances, and therefore validate the confrontations of students. 
"Distortions abound on the Catholic campus, beginning, as most would admit, with Notre Dame. So much so that to talk 
of campus ordn primarily in terms of student deportment rings of fraudulence." 

Craftsmen in Optics 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENS-ES HE SHERLAND BLDG.-·132 S. MICHIGAN ST.-~o::ntral 2·146a 

hear of this apartment through a friend at school, and I grabbed it. Going through a realtor or the newspaper seemed to up the rents almost ten percent." There arc several apartment complexes for young marrieds in the South Bend-Mishawaka area but the rents here run in the neighborhood of $90 per month. They arc unfurnished, but they do have the advantage that they arc well taken care of and maintainance and other services are provided. University Village, about one-half mile north of the two campuses, has I08 units available for married Notre Dame students over 21. They arc managed by Mr. and Mrs. Robert Walters, who arc students themselves. But they arc hard to get into. "We begin taking applications in the spring," said Walters, "and we try to give preference to couples with children. We inform those couples that we have accepted around the first of May. From then on, it is strictly on a first come, first served basis." The apartments rent for $70 per month, plus utilities. Tenants arc provided with household appliances, but must bring other furnishings. The complex is University-owned and arc rather at­tractive. However, because of the over-21 rule and the long waiting list, most of the residents arc graduate students, although a few undcrgrads do manage to get in. Unfortunately, neither the colleges, nor the city have given any indication that there will be an expansion of student housing in general or married student housing in particular. South Bend docs not provide adequate housing for the large student population here, so it would seem that the institutions themselves would start a building program to alleviate the situation. Howcvl'f, the expense of such a project would be high, and few officials have given the subject much thought. "Housing is bad for all off-campus students," said Mike Phelps, "but for the marrieds, it's murder." The situation has assumed the form of a status quo without any change likely in the ncar future. Tomorrow: A /,ook from within. The Marrieds themselves take the floor to give their outlook on married life.  M'li'1 Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.--ChicaQo APPLICATIG~~S are now being accepted for the position of Editor-in-Chief of the OBSERVER. The position is open to 'any undergraduate student of St. Mary's College and th:: Univc rsity of Notre Dame. Applicants must submit a letter of intent and resuwe to: THE EDITORIAL BOARD c/o Mr. William Luking Editor-in-Chief The Observer Box 11 Notre Dary1C, Ind. 46556 Applications for editr)r should be postmarked by March 13.  
VOTE! SBP ELECTIONS TODAY IN THE HALLS 11:30-1:00 5:30-7:00 OFF CAMPUS OFFICE  
place, and. _as such has an its 2,000 accountabtllty to those it "We hope presumes to educate." and the It is on this point, says Commonweal, that "the warp in the Hcsburgh ultimatum buckles ... C'riscs is foreseen. but the responsibility for an orderly a way of campus is placed on the student body, with no attendant facing up to institutional policies which rejects what will be a factor in determining Law" as whether order ought indeed be maintained on campus." "Hesbmgh's la.w may appeal the to Jaw-and-order Republicans,  

BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE 

9am -7pm 
REMINDER: SENIORS ARE ELIGIBLE TO VOTE 






