
Hesburgh elected to ABA study; will investigate govt. and dissent 
Rev. Tlu·odore M. Heshurgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, has been elected to a IS-member American Bar Assm;iution (ABA) Commission on Campus Covcrnnll'nl and Student Dissent. 
ABA l'n•sidcnt Bl'rnard (;. Segul said the commission will draft legal standards and procedural guidl'lincs to help "closl' the communication gap that has been a factor in campus disordns." 
Sl'giil said lhl' wmmission would rt•commend the legal standards and g.uidl'lines to deal with dissl·nt and to l'al'ilit~Jil' srudl'nl partil·ipalion in campus activities without disruptin~ tlu.: cdul·ational process. 

Faculty senate meets 
1 D F 
l,Y !IV<' romm 
l{l'COlllllll'IHiii t ions for curri­l'tilum change and an explana­tion of the new University l'orum were prcsl·nt,·d to the !·acuity Scnatl' last night at its first monthly meeting in the <\:ntn for C<•ntinuing Fduca­tion. 
Assol·iall' Professor of Biology Josq)h A. Tilwn. Scnutc chair­miln llll'nlionnl afterwards thai thl· senate's purpose is "to at­kmpl to determine and express faculty opinion on variou~ issues uffl·ding thl' University and the faculty and Pwking this opinion known to the propn uuthorities or bodies." 
Rt•v. John F. Walsh, CSC, Vtcl' Pn·sidcnt for Academic Af­fairs. colllllll'nll'd on a n:porl drawn up by lhl' University Cur­riculum CommitttT which is composed of student. faculty, and administration ml'lllhers. 
The report calls for the adop­tion of a new semcstn cail'ndar to l'IHI hdore Christmas. II asks that all l'lasscs meet only twice a week for seventy-five minutt:s and I hal Saturday classes he omitll'd. 
"The committee feels thai one can Clccomplish more in Iwo tm•elings than in three," Walsh said. 
"For one thing, role will only have to he takl•n two-thirds as nwny times." he comnwntcd facetiously. 
Walsh said that the genius of Leo M. Corhad. University Registrar, has alrl·ady come up with a work<1hle plan for class re-scheduling. 
Also rel'Olllllll'ndcd is that only six hours each of theology and philosophy he required of un<krgraduatcs. The present rl'­quircmcnt is lwciVl' hours of cacl1. Walsh said that the cut in hours hy no ml'ans indicates a de-emphasis of lhl·ology and philosophy. 
"On the con lrary, we intend to make these fewer hours among the finest and most ex­citing the students take," he commenll'd. 

These rccomnll'ndations along with others will be submitted for ·approval to the Acadl·mic Coun­cil at its fall meeting in October or November. If approved, they will go into effect in Seplt:mber, 
1970. 
The University Curriculum Committee will then continue to function even after its report is submitted. 
"Curriculum review should be an ongoing process." Walsh said. ''Wl' must muke an ever-increasing effort for diver­sity, flexibility, and innovation in program." 
Following Walsh's address, Philip J. Faccenda, Special As­sistant to the President. dis­cussed the newly initiall'd Uni­versity Forum with the senall'. The forum was proposed hy the Board of Trustees at its May 2, 1969 meeting. It was then made known to students, faculty, ad­ministration and alumni in a May letter from University Presi­den I Theodore M. llt•sburgh, 
esc. 
"An important aspect of the forum is that <1lumni will be included in it,'' Faccenda said. "After all. we arc known to have 
(continued on page 2) 

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25,1969 
At area schools 

Five blacks are re -admitted 
St'vt•n black stutll'nls wt·re dis­
misst•d  from  Notre  Dame  for  
ac:1dcmic  reasons  afll'r  the  sec­ 
ond  St'llll'ster of  last  year,  and  

llll'n five wen• readmitted to area schools aftt'r summer meet­mgs bt'lween leaders of the Afro­-American Sudety and Univer­sity officials. 
The rt,sult of the confron­tation may have large import for ful urt• rei at ions with the black slutknts. 
Art McF<trland, president of the A fro-American Socil'!y, rl'ferring to the incidt•nt as "mass academic," revealed some of lht• background of the inci­dt·nt yesterday. 
"When we started investiga­ting the reasons for the dismis­sals (in the early summer)," McFarland relall'd, "wt· found a cert<~in pattern. Most of the freshmen had had touble with math. science, or philosophy, 
which is a suhject that presents special problems to the black students. There had been little 

0-C directive causes obje'ction by students 
by John Shreves Fat her I·:dgar \Vh;den, <'.S.C., Din·et<H of Camp us Housing, is 

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••...~ncountering opposition to a 
directive concermng off campus living from Bt•rnie Ryan, Off Campus Housing Commissioner. 
The directive was sent out last spring slating that if a studt>nl desired to live off l·ampus in the fall he should nwke the fact known to the administration by May I 0. It also noted t hal if a studl'nl lkl'ided during the sum­mer thai he wanted to movl' off, he would have to find someone to mow on campus in his place. 
This fall approximately 25 students did lkdde to move off campus. Some did find replan·· ments but there are currently ahout I 5 now on campus search­ing for someom• to move on in their place. 
Fat her Wh~ len cited some fig­ures whi.:h l'Xplained why the administration is taking the posi­tion it is. There an: 35 t•mply beds in campus residence halls. Figuring five hundrt:d dollars for each empty bed. he estimalt'd the Uniwrsity's loss at 17,500 dollars. He staled thai I ht' Uni­versil y is trying to gel off C<t m­pus residents to move on ca rnpus at this tinll'. 
Father defended the adminis­tration's stand on off C<lmpus ho~tsing by presenting the fact that a University, as well as any husim•ss, has to he run realis­tically. II must realit.l' that money is scarce. he said. He stall'd he hoped that sludt•nts undl'rstood this. If the Univer­sity werl' to give l'very sl udenl who didn't fulfill the replan·­menl n•quiremcnl pl'rmission to move off campus thi~ fall. it wouldn't be operating in :.lll efficient or realistic mannl'L 
Bernie Ryan comml'nlcd, "My objection is prinwrily that lht• administration has put the perpetuation of the institution 
or no tutoring for many of those guys. Two of the three sopho­mores that were dismissed had had trouble in their freshman year, and there was no follow-up by anybody. In general the freshman year counseling office was incompetent to handle the special problems that a black freshman f<tces." 
Me Farland returns McFarland stated he had re­tunwd to South Bend around June 14 to assist with the Up­ward Bound Program. It was then that he found out about the dismissals. He then went to sec Dean William· Burke of the Freshmen Year of Studies, Father John Walsh, Vice-President for Aca­demic Affairs, and Dr. Thomas Stewart, an assistant to Father Hesburgh. Stewart, according to McFarland. knew most about thl· dismissals. All of the dismissed people were then contacted and asked if they would like to return to Notre Dame. All of them but 
ahead of the individual's devel­
opment. If a university dm~s this. in my way of thinking. it fails to meet its obligation as well as its purpose in society. At some titJ1e they have to put people ahead of dollars and cents." 
Ryan suggested two ways to alll•viate this situation. 
lie said there are now I 21J transfer students, most of whom arc forced to live off campus. A transfer student, in Ryan's opin­ion. is basic<tlly like ~ freshman in I ha I he knov:,; little or not h­ing about the University's geog­raphy or fundions. 
"Why then couldn't these students, who wish to move on campus, d0 so in place of the students who wish to move off"'''. he asked. 
The second plan would set up a ten to Iwenty thousand dollar l'On lingcncy fund to h~ put aside from the regular budget. This way thl' Univl'fsity would lose no money if some st udenIs wanted to live off campus, and 

F'r. Edgar Whelan 
tlwre would ht• no probkm con­l't•rning 1 heir moving. 
i\s Ryan l'Xplailll·d. "Why didn't the administration antic­ipate that fht'rl' would he a cntain numbn of studt•nts who would dl't:Jdt• to move off cam­pus coml' fall st'llll'Stt·r and bud­g.l'l an·ordingly." · 
one replied thai they would. The one who replied in the negative had already arranged to attend school in California. 
Five readmitted 
Through the Afro-American Society's efforts five of the sev en were then read milled to area schools. Two of them art· attend­ing classes at Holy Ctoss Junior Collegl' while living at Notre Dame. Two of the blacks are still at Notr~ Dame undt·r an agree­ment that their work must im­prove to a cert<~in level. They will be given special counseling and tutoring if necessary. The final dismissed black, presently a junior, is attending classes at the South Bend Campus of Indiana University, formerly known as tilt' South Bend Extension. 
Dr. Stewart, Special Assistant to the President for Planning and Analysis, pointed out some of the special problems that face a black student who enrolls in Notre Dame, which is 98% white and 97% Catholic. Only about half of the black students here are of Catholic b<1ckground. 
"elastic attitude" "The problem is that we havl' 
<Ill elastic attitude in the admis­sions office, wiH:re Wl' admit what we call 'high risk' black freshmen who then r.un into an 
int'last il' curriculum." There has been no ameliorating factor to cope with the stiff curriculum intended for the white, middle class Catholic," Stewart said. 
"We hope to change some things," he continued, "so that these 'high risk' students will go through <1 'curve of develop­ment' so that. through a less intcnsiVl' atmosphere they can gradually fit into the mainstream of al·ademics. t:or example, for some black students, either math or scit'nce could be postponed until the sophomore year. Some of these guys haven't had trigon­ometry and then we throw cal­culus allhem." 

Black counselor The recent addition of Mr. (;eorgt• C. Seabrooks to the Freshman Counseling Office is expected to improve lht• coun­sl'ling service available lo the 21J hiltl'k freshmen. Mr. Seabrooks is a black psydwlogist with ten years of experience in counseling blacks in the Philadl•lphia and Washington ghettoes. McFarland had no qualms about expressing his feelings on the issue. "They told sor.lt' of lhl'Sl' guys to I hink I hings over for a year," he said. "Well, lwll. you can't sit around thinking for a year with Uncle Sam hrc<~lhing down your neck, unles you want to do your thinking in Saigon. This large nurnhl•r of dismis­sals 7 is significant whl'n vou consider lh<~l there were only 66 blacks at Notre Dame at llw beginning of last year. Thrl'e freshmen were dismisst·d for aca­demic reasons at the end of the first senwslt'r, and ont· freshman transferred schools in Ortoher. When you consilkr that then· wert• only about XO dismissals for academic rl'asons at the rnd of htst yt•ar, the fact that Sl'Ven -trfrrtts Wl're going to he di!!­missed is t•spel·ially significant." 

The World 
Today 
Dinis. 

FRESHMEN Law students are taking clients
oick uo campus pax 
Actual clients are taking the Lawless. vanced tax planning are new,Th. urS•12•15 to 2 place of books for many Univer-Under a rule passed in July by and students are encouraged to F'Es'P• LOUUG£ fNCf.UDrS sity of Notre Dame law students. the Indiana Supreme Court, In-explore _s~ch areas as psychol_o­
1 ft • ft' 1:.· As the nation's oldest diana law students can now try gy, med1cme, and modern soc1al
• Catholic Law School celebrates cases in court under the super-problems with Law School ere-SOap, Shampoo, t00thpasfe, e~c. its centennial, its curriculum has of practicing attorney, for many three
vision a dit given as as been redesigned to put students and many Notre Dame law stu-graduate school courses. 
Immediately after the vote, Pres­
Scott is elected 
ident Nixon telephoned his congratula­
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Senate Re­tions to Scott and the new GOP leader publicans shattered decades of conser­assured him the tight. two way race vative domination yesterday by pick­h~d evoked no bitterness among ing Eastern liberal Hugh Scott as their Senate Republicans. new leader. "No, not at all," Scott told Nixon 
The Pennsylvanian defeated Sen. from the crowded conference room Howard H. Baker Jr., of Tennessee, with reporters listening in. "It was all the conservative backed candidate, 24 at a high level and good spirits to 19 in a secret ballot vote to select a indeed." successor to Sen. Everett M. Dirksen as Scott got support from liberals, Senate GOP le~der. 5ome moderates, conservatives edgy 
His Senate colleagues elevated the about the 43 year old Baker's lack of 68 year old Scott from the post of experience and youth and senators assistant Republican leader. or whip. wanting to succeed Scott as whip. 
into a real lawyer's environment,
FREE BRING I.D.
• according to Dean William B. 

Wt--\AT oo '/ou \HINK MY Ct-\At\JCES ARE OF REAC.HlN& HoLLVwooo'? 
Get outta town without leaving campus. The lowest long distance rates are in effect every school night after 7 p.m. and all day Saturdays and Sundays. 

@ Indiana Bell 
Use your long distance calling number. Save time. Dial your own calls. 
Dinis' request for an autopsy on the
Kopechne's petition 28 year old blonde secretary was filed 
with Brominski last Thursday. It dif­
WILKES BARRE, Pa. (UPI) The fered from one filed five weeks earlier parents of Mary J o Kopechne filed a by alleging blood was found on the seven point petition yesterday in a doghing and in the mouth and nose of second attempt to bar an autopsy on Miss Kopechne after her body was the hody of their daughter, who was removed from the submerged Kennedy found drowned in Sen. Edward M. car last July 18. Kennedy's submerged car. The Kopechnc motion. filed by 
Judge Bernard C. Brominski of attorney Joseph Flanagan, pleaded for Luzerne County Court set arguments a dismissal of continuance of Dinis' on the petition for next Monday, prior amended petition and requested a bill to hearing one already scheduled on an of particulars, including copies of amended autopsy petition filed by blood tests and the names of all M;•ssachusetts Dist. Atty. Edmund witnesses. 
dents are now finding clients in 
Faculty meets 
legal aid, public defender and 
county prosecutor offices. (continued from page 11 
In addition, Notre Dame law the most active alumni in the 
students try both trial and U.S." 
appelate court cases in South Also to be represented in the 
Bend courtrooms before realistic body will be students, adminis­
panels of judges and juries. Also, tration, fat:ulty and trustees. 
courses in areas such as domestic "The forum guarantees that 
relations, estate planning, corpo­all segments of the University 
rate law, labor law, and adminis­will be present to have a voice 
trative agency practice are con­on the issues raised," Faccenda 
ducted on a clinical basis in said. Each segment will be al­
which students prepare and see lowed three members to be 
through cases exactly as an at­elected plus one ex-officio mem­
torney would. ber. 
The Notre Dame Law Faccenda asked the senate to 
School's new curriculum is tied see that the three faculty mem­
to experimentation within the bers are elected in time for an 
school and to a wide range of O(.;tober 2 meeting. This first 
elective courses from the Univer­meeting will be an organizational 
sity's graduate school offerings. one. 
Within the Law School, courses The first regular session will 
in the areas of international law, be open to the public. Meetings
anti-trust law, securities regula­
will be approximately every
tion, corporate planning, and ad-
other month. 




Pan -Am Club meets; continue long tradition 
One of Notre Dame's lesser area twice as large as the U.S. 
known traditions will begin its (Alaska included), the club 
61 st year Thursday evening in could hardly remain a simple 
the Student Center. geographis club. 
Little do non-Latin Americans 
know of the PanAmerican Club, To fulfill its extracurricular 
whit:h, having been in function of forming Latin 
continuous existence since at America's elite of the future, the 
least 1908, is probably among PanAmerican club will this year 
the oldest organizations on he concentrating on the idea of 
campus·. In 1908 tht: hemispheric solidarity. 
grandfathers of today's members Exhibitions and lectures on the 
formed the "La Raza" club, emerging Latin America are 
which soon became NO's forte being planned. The dub will 
in soccer and fencing teams. continue to publish its Spanish 
Between g~mes and meets the Literary Magazine "Piranha," 
old timers did their best to liven organize masses in Spanish, 
long Indiana winters with hopefully sponsor a campus 
various social activities. But with radio show featuring soft Latin 
a membership hailing from sounds, and attempt to integrate 
widely scattered sectors of an some activities with CILA. 
1 




OBSERVER PHOTOGRAPHERS 
There will be a meeting of all those in­terested in being an Observer photographer this Friday, 6:30, in the Observer office. If you are interested, please be there. 
If you can't be at the meeting, contact Phil Bosco at 8661. 

THE OBSERVER
rHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25,1969 

Commissioners approved at SMC 
by Jeanne Sweeney 
Junior Karen SL·hultz and sophomore J ulit• Dwyer wt•n• ap­prowd hy the Student Assl•mbly I his week as commissiont•rs to sit 'Jn a subordinate bo;1rd which 
nwl'!s  wrth  tht•  Hoard  of Trus­ 
tet•s.  
The  approval  took  place  ill  

tht• weekly assembly llll't'ling at which the senators also approved live ot hn officers. 
Karen Srhultz, who is the president of the junior class, will rt·presenl the students on the St udcnl Policy Committee ot Iht• Board of Trustees and Julit· Dwyer will represent the stu­dents on the Sl udt·nt Dewlop­menl Committee of lht• Board of Trustt•cs. 
Tht• Board will meet with the sl udents Iwke officially during I hl' yt'<H. but M1ss Dwyer hopes they will be able to met'l the board informo.Jlly o.Jt otht•r timl·,, "for OJ fret•r excho.Jngl' of ideo.Js." 
On lht• Acatkmic Affairs Council, which is an o.Jdvisory council to the l'n·sident, Mo.Jry­Nicmeyer will n:prt•sent the stu­tknt body. This rouncil is in­volved with any mujor ch;tnges which might take phll't' in aeu­dernic policy. 
Miss Niemeyl'r was Chairman of the ad hoc com•nittet· of faculty and studl·nts l;,st year which derided to place students on faculty and <Jdministration commiltt•es of lht• l'ollege. 
hleen Donoghue, a senior, was <lpproved as a member of anotht•r academit· commiltet·, tht• Acadt'mil' Standing ('om­niltee. 
This Commit lee is concernrd with academic probation, study 

NotreDame co -operates in· researc 
Notre Dame is one of 4R uni­versities which have formed a consortium to foster cooperation among universities, other re­search organizations, and the U.S. govern mt·nt for the advancement of space research. 
Purdue and Indiana Universi­ties arc also members of the con­sortium. Notre Dame is the only Catholic university involved. 
Called the Univl'rsities Space Research Association (USRA), the consortium expects to ac­quire, plan, construct, and oper­ate lohoratorics and other fat:ili­ties for research, development, and education associated with space science and technology. USRA has submitted a proposal to NASA for the management of the Lunar Science Jnstitutr in 
llouslon, now under the direc­
tion of the National Academy of Sciences. The existing contract between NASA and the Academy is scheduled to expire this fall. 
The Lunar Science Institute is designed, to provide, among other things, conference and study facilities for university scienlists visiting Houston to 

Purdue loHery results today 
Boh Pc•hl. Student Union Sn­vin•s Commissioner, has an­nounn·d llJ<tl the results of the ticket lottery for the Purdue gaml' will be posted in tht· llud · die this morning hy JJ) nurnbcrs only, 
Winners muy pick up their tickl'!s today between I PM and 
4:30 PM in the SUS(' office Room 4-E in the LaFortun~ St udcnt Center. Winning I D's mu-;t he presented by those 

PAGE 



EDISON/LIGHT 
EDISON AT IRONWOOD 1 MI. EAST OF STADIUM 
IS PROUD TO BRING YOU 
THE STAMP MACHINE 
TOMORROW NITE (FRIDAY) ONLY 
BACK FROM BALL STATE U. SEPT. 26 BY POPULAR DEMAND 
DANCING STARTS BRING YOUR DATE AT NINE PM. OR MAKE IT A PARTY 

ADMISSION $2.00 




f!Natttral 
work on lunar materials broug~t. back by Apollo astronauts and on other aspects of lunar science. 

nder'
The scientific facilities of the Manned Spacecraft center, in­cluding the Lunar Receiving Laboratory, will be available on a cooperative basis for Institute 

laun hes 
scientists to usc for their research. 

the new
daiming tickets. 
A limill'd r1umbt•r of bus seals for the ''urdlll' trip will he avail­
• 
able for tl,ose with game tickets only. ]{ound trip price will be 

wave In 
$7.50. 
It was also announced that all of the losers' checks have been 

eyewear!
voided -and dcstroyl•d. Pohl ex­plained that the number of losers' checks mad(! sorting and return irnpossihk. Everything you need for big, big eyes. 

days. t•xa m schedules, and pos­sibly pass-f<1 il courses. 
On the Community Relations Boord, which is largl'ly involved with resolving disputes between students and faculty, or students and <H.lministration, is senior Mary Osmanski. 
Miss Osmanski, who was soph·· omore class president and chair­man of the Speakers Bureau of 
the Student Development Com­mittee last year, said that "our aim as a community relation-; hoard will be to bring our com­munity together as a better oper­<Jting and co-operating body in all areas of college life." 
Other appointments that were approved were Public Relations Commissioner, Diane Snellgrove, an off-campus junior, and a Stu­dent Assembly Secretary, Amy Phimister, who is a junior. 
Charlie's STEREO TAPES 8 TRACK List$6.98 Charlie's Price $5.88 . ;#'.lil:tl#.L*'t;' OPEN DAILY 9 tn 6~~1 SAT. 8a.m. to 5 p.m. PH. 287-7218 774 Lincoln Way East  Clearer, purer, creamier colors that turnOBSERVER STAFF on with water-and don't turn off. For a smooth, silky finish that lasts for hours.MEETING 11 LidShadows~ LidLiners~ 1BigLash' Mascara. There's never been anything like them be­NEW AND RETURNING fore. Everything's hypo-allergenic, fragrance­free, and 1oo% dermatologist-tC'sted.AND ANYONE INTERESTED Natural Wonder Eye Makeup by Revlon IN WORKING EXCEPT REPORTERS: Available at: 4:15 FRIDAY SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE BOOKSTOREREPORTERS MEETING: 5:00 FRIDAY  
'WHERE IT'S HAPPENING' STUDENT UNION ACADEMIC COMMISSION POSITIONS AVAILABLE IN: PUBLIC RELATIONS MODEL UNITED NATIONS PUBLICITY CONTEMPORARY ARTS FESTIVAL CONFERENCES DISTINGUISHED LECTURES FILMS INTRODUCTORY MEETING 8:00 p.m. ·Thursday -Sept. 25 APPLY IN PERSON 4th floor LaFortune  
MEET JANE Sept. 30 pg. 2  

THE OBSERVER An Independent Student Newspaper OONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Publisher GAETANO DeSAPIO, Editor DAV!D M. BREEN, Busines.-. Manager DAVE STAUFFER, Night Editor NOTRE DAME, INDIANAFOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 Thl'rl' is no doubt that Union mel11­Union tickets bers should receive some type of com­The move by Student Union Director pensation for their efforts. However, Dennis C'lark and Associate Director Tito little or no effort goes into selling tickets Trevino to rdcasc fifty additional tkkets for away football games except for the for the Purdue lottery whkh were being few people wh.o assist in the lottery. held on reserve for Student Union per­A lot of work. however. goes into the sonnel is a bold first step in eradicating preparation and the scheduling of con-· basic im•quities in Union policy. certs and other social activities. It has In ra~ t years the Union's policy in the been the Union's tlractice in the past to Social ( ommission has been prone to give complir.lL'ntary tickets to certain  

financiai abuse and misuse of funds both by unscrupulous Union members or by Union members who were just not qu<llified to handle the amount of funds that go through the Union. 
Clark and Trevino have promised to run a tight ship this year. All indications currently point to the fact that they have surrounded t:ll'mselves with indivi­duals who profess that same philosophy. 
The fifty tickets had been set aside for reserve sale to Union members. Rather than have to go through the lottery like the rest of the students, Union members could be assured of a ticket if they wanted to purchase one. 
Clark and Trevino felt that such a system was unfair to the rest of the Student Body. We agree with them. 
The rationale for the practice of reser­ving ti..:kets sten med from the fact that Union personnel arc not reimbursed for their work. Preferential ticket sales was one means of compensating them for all the work that they put in. 
Union ·l~embcrs who had done a lc t of work on a concert. 
As we understand the practice, the complimentary tickets for the concerts cost the Union nothing because they ar" supplied free of charge to the Union h) the performers. 
There was some disappointment in the Univn by people who felt that the release of the football tickets hurt the morale of the Union hy taking away all compensation for Union work. 
We do not feel that is the case. The practice of complimentary tickets for concerts and other social activiti~s if handled fairly can prove just compensa­tion for Union members. Distributing tickets whio.:h are given to the Union free of charge for concerts is justifiable. The:·' <.ire the Union's and should be used as the Union ~:ees fit. 
But the tickets to away gantes are sold to the Union by the football til:ket office to be sold to studer,ts. All stu­dents should h<'''e equal access to thL·:n. 
The shuttle bus 
A number of changes have been made 

in shuttle bus service tllis year but by no 
means can they all be labelled beneficial. 
The most blatant error in the new bus 

policy is the charge of ten cents for 
riders on the bus after 6 p.m. The 
decision to exact a fare resulted from the 
fact that costs increased this year with 
the addition of a second bus. 
Tim Collins, Student Union Manager 

of Transportation has stated that the 
University was responsible for the de­
cision to rent the buses and also for the 
decision to charge a fare. The reasoning 
for the fare, Collins maintains, is that the 
Administration feels that it does not 
have to "subsidize the social lives of 
students." 
It must be logical to assume then, that 

the administration feels that anyone 
travelling from one campus to another 
after six o'clock is doing so mainly for 
social reasons. Such reasoning holds little 
weight. 
ln any University which is worth its 

label as an academic institution, activity 
during the week centers around its li­
brary. Since the Memorial Library was 
built St. Mary's girls have been traveling 
to the NO campus regularly to make use 
of its facilities. They are now justifiably 
perturbed by the fact that it costs 
twenty cents a night to do so. 
The ten cent fare should be eliminatea 

immediately. We support student groups 
hoth at St. Mary's and at l'<otre Dame 
which are lobbying to see it removed. 

The increased service, prO'!id(:d by the addition of another bus was long over­due. But a closer examination reveals that not much foresight w:ts used in planning when the second bus would run. Currently it suppleme:1.ts the first bus only during the day so that there is a bus running between the two campuses every fifteen minutes. 
But if the second bus continues to run only during the day service will continue to be plagued by the same problems that it experienced last year. Namely, owr­crowding on nights when there is ~l lecture on one of the campuses and overcrowding on weekends. 
Changes should be made to assure service during those peak periods. Per­haps the rental of another "Jus for only a few nights a week would bring an ad­ditional financial burden not commensu­rate with the service it would provide. 
Perhaps there is another solution though. As far as can br: determined the bus that was used last year is sitting idle in the maintenance yard at the North end of the NO campus. The bus could be easily put back into servke on weekends and on nights when other significant events are going. The additional cost of simply hiring a driver to operate that bus would be small compared to that of renting a bus for those times. 

The opinions expressed in the editorials, news analyses, and columns of The Observer are solely those of the authors and editors of The Observer and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administrations, faculties or student bodies. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students ot the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions mey be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Da~;~~e, Ind., 46556. Secong class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 


Tim O'Mellla 

Lighted walkway 

Monday's episode in the continuing, though somewhat boring story of the students' never-ending battle for truth, justice and the American(?) way in the Student Life Council rcsLlltcd in a dcarcut victory for the Good Cuys (meaning us, or we, the stude.Jt-niggcrs). 
Before a huddle of Scholastic editors (and there arc almost as many of them as there are senators in the Student Senate, and they arc almost as effective as that august body), a couple of long-hairs, photographers, Ohserver reporters and a contingent of professors from the English department. the SLC wilted before the devastating onslaught of a spcndidly prepared argument on behalf of the Juggler by the student members. 
In addition, Father Burtchacll presented evidence that the scvnal technical reviews sponsored by the University lost considerably more money than the $102 deficit incurred by the .!ugg/cr. Others effectively refuted contentions by Father Hesburgh in a September 5 letter that the magazine "seemed to degenerate into a co1y activity of a very few writers and readers" (500 copies of the latest edition were sold and 200 given away to faculty and others) and that it seemed to depend more and more upon four-letter words. 
It mattered little that most members of the SLC were probably already favorably disposed toward continuing the Juggler. The forces of evil were vanquished by a 17· I count of the 23 members present. the only whimper of resistance coming from Father Riehle. 
The Dean of Students arg:tcd that a ligl1ted walk way bet ween St. Mary's and Notre Dame shuuld be higher on the priority list for University funds than the .ll'ggler. In reply, it has been said that those who frequent that walkway deserve exactly what they receive in the dark. 
Father McCarraghcr noted that the funds for the magazine had only been suspended temporarily although Father Hesburgh's letter gives a diffl'rent impression. "First of all, I would like to say that the discontin'lation of the Juggler did not originate with me." At any rate, the magazine's editor, Michael Patrick O'Connor. has not conferred with McCarragher concerning the magazine's future since returning to campus. 
The problem could probably have been solved between O'Connor and McCarragher without Council intervention hut the SLC's endorsement of the magazine makes it a virtual certainty that the magazine will continue to be published. 
Tn th will out (if it h'ls more "nd bigger guns). 
................... 

The liberal collegian's new magazine. Esquire, critically reviewed the Dow-CIA sit-in of last November in,its September edition as it noted campus incidents across the nati6n last year. 
As a result of the demonstration Esquire says, "Father Hesbmgh announces that in future students doing anything he doesn't like will get fifteen minutes to meditate, followed by five minutes to back off or be suspended." 
Under the head "Changes," this follows: '·Father Hesburg.1 is named head of the U.S. Civil Rights Commission and gets nice letter from President Nixon. One point for Establishment." And finally: "Three hundred American newsp;1pers praise Hesburgh in editorials. Two points for Establishment." 
We aren't going to let him shut us out, are we? Playboy's September edition selected 25 universities across the ountry for its annual "Camt•us Action Chart" ratin<;. Guess what school was 25th? Under "Administration" re:~ds, "Restrictive; no visiting." Campus males arc "hale and horny" and there is "a chapel in every dorm." Lastly: "Girls descend for the football games, but after the snows fall, it's every man by himself." That in a fa 'l1ily magazine. Playboy didn't mention St. Mary's at all in spe;,king of Notre Dame. I wonder why'! 
Reading for this month: Two articles (short) in the September Hsquire: "Listen to the black graduate, you might learn something" and "Listen to the white graduate, you might learn something." Issues should be mailed to all administrators and personally handrd to all members of the Academk Council. 
rHURSUAY, SEPTEMBER 25,1969 THE OBS£Rfi£R. 
PAGE:. 



The Beatles: traveling Abbey Road 
by Pat Clinton 
l'he Bcath~s have a lll'W re~:ord. 
The <~lhum. ,1hhc.t· Uoad, ~:amc to me, by way of WSN D. in a plain whitl' envelope, no jacket, no explanation, just " new Bc;~tle album, one disc, eighteen ~:uts. 
It is undoubtedly a ~:omment on our times that I found it nerve wra~:king to listen to an album with no jacket, lll'm:e no pkturcs and Ill) liner notes. It's very hard to pi~:k UJl the mood the first time through. 
This is n:ally a difficult rcwrd all the way through. It proves almost l'ondusivcly that the Bcatlcs arc geniuses at the ~.:raft of rock music and that George Martin's produdion work is among the most master­ful around. Till' album is interesting, ingenious, dcvcr ;~s all hell, rnagnifkl·ntly pnformcd and superbly put together. llnfortunatl'ly it has a diffkult time getting off the ground. 
Mudr of the trouble conrl'S from the sarnl' quality that makes it good: the Beatlcs arc a superb rm:k group. l'Vcn if thr: individual mcmhcrs .trc oflcn surpassl'd in personal virtuosity. ..I hhcr Road is ;dmost cncydopL·dil' in its usr: of sound. l·:vcrything is there. practic;~lly CVL'ry instrumental and harmonic riff in the nwdium of ro~:k. The sounds rm:rgc and pop out of cH:rywhl•rc. Faroquc, ckdroniL·. country and western. straight rock. l'vcrything L·omcs to· gcther, son1L'lirncs in striking ways. The attention to sound is overwhelming. l.istcn cspl'cially to thl' guitar in "You nc1cr giw llll' your mqncy,'' and thc way it sounds like chrmes; or to the instniiiiL'ntal part of "IIL·,·ausl•." that Sl'l'llls to hovn bl'lwl'l'n harpsiL'irord. L'kL·troni,·s. guitar, orgar or wh<:tcvcr 
J'h,· drllr,·rrlty is that som,·tr•n,·~ <rll that pL·rl'cction gl'ls 111 the way of the song. dr<rrns the Jrfc out of il. i\lso. on S<lllll' of tire trad.s the music is Sl'if· ,·ons,·roiiS. wlf-parodying. Parody 1s pkasant, of roursc. hut,·vcntually you want a hit n1orl' substance. 


Tlrc album starts out with "('onll' together'' a post·Md.uhanish voodoo rhant \"lllr SL'verc chord clwngc probkms. The drums in thc r11tro an: a Joy: the WOI'US, ahou( SOIIIL' l'OI( With "fl-d down hl·ioW his knees ... 1:\0I to he good lookiug 'u1usc he\ so hard to sec" lllOVl' nic,·ly. But. 
Harrison's "Son!l'thin!;\" is o.'ll' ,,f the best tracks. The slnll'turc is fashionably cl:oppcd up. hut it still hangs together with good vocul sluff working over some m~wic soundtr'll:k strings. Thr: lead work is dissonant hut it grows on you. 
"Maxwell's Silver lla1nmcr" is a lilting little music hall murdLT ditty with all kinds of blood and fun instrumental stuff. It's onc or thl' IIIOSt l'njoyablc songs the BL·atlcs haVl' cn·r done. 
"Darling" is straight r<ll·k stuff with hc<rvy echo, back up vocals and l'JH>ugh sclf-l.'ons~:iousncss to nearly kill all thl' l'Xl'ilemr:nt. hcrything. thl' vocal, the lcad guitar, the back-up. l'Vl'n thL' way the echo lingers, is too pcrfectly controlkd. I don't mind pt:oplc doing fifties-rock as a jo!;L'. hut this song wuldn'a pull orr t:ilhcr lh~ jnk~ or il •lrilitdli~JURa. 


"Odo~lus's gartll•n" is Ringo's song. It is plca~:mtly inane. It is regrettable that it has to cope with othn plcasantly inane songs on the alhurn. 
Side one (which is what all thosc things you just read ahoul arc on) ends with "I want you t ShL·'s so heavy)". Tlw song sounds like it should have hL'L'n recorded in a har with pcople clinking their glasses and singing along. Tire words are inane. hut the song dic·ks. The vocal is Mosc i\llison·i~h. the guitar IS rl'iaXL'd and swinging. and the two work togL·tlrn vny nic,·ly. The whok thing slrdcs into a ponderou~ tkc·,·icrating fadeout whiL'Ir 1s wry cflcclive hut whrch l'lllb abruptly. Tlw lkatks arc still playingjokcs L'VL'n wlrcn you think tlwy'vc gotten dow11 to so111C good hard unsclf,·onsrJOIIS IIIUsic 
Sidc two docs not display quite as much dexterity as s1dc om·, hut the 111Usil' is bl'lter. The construction of the side is trr1llsu:1i: there are lwo songs. then it runs together into a i<HJSL' medley through the cnd. 
il<lrrison's "llcrc comes the sun" is probably the best or second best cut on the disr. It is a very un-Bc:1tly so11g. hut lrkc "somethmg" on side oac. it lrans,-cnds its own slrtiL'lmal pitfalls and gr:ncratcs a lot of good feeling. i\lso like "Something" it makes liSt' Of thl' (t:L·hnique of it::JVing thl' last line short and filling out with an instnlml·nt~l run. It works fin,· twiL',· 011 this album. hut ilrould get dull if Ill' makes a hah1t of it. 
"BeL·aiiSL' reeks. It's a sappy polyphonic niglrt1narc with a portativc organ. It is unfortunate the cut was inclutkd. hcc<Juse it Jraws ultl'nlion to the virtuosity the Bcatlcs arc wasting making trash palatable. Not even four·part harmony can rcdec1!1 tile simple· nrimkd tunc or words like: 
Oh 1-kcau.H• the world is round it turn.\· 1111' on Because the world is round 
011 
Because the wind is hixh It hlows my mind Bel'ause the wind is hixh 

The s:rnll' thing is trur: of "Sunking" later in the side, only here lhl'Y go a step further and do a verse in Italian. On this one. the instrumental is fairly inappropriate too. and they even manage to work in a versc or two in Italian (whidl should greatly t:ndcar them to the people who hang around supr:rmarkcts to listen to the muzak). 
"You never givl' llll' your money" is five or six tkccnt songs. It starts out well, and lht•n jumps to various other lines which neither create a unity nor especially advance structurally or emotionally any­thing in any of the othn parts. 
The short blocks of songs which take up most of the scnmd side arc strange to listen to. Usually medleys arc of songs. These medlics are the songs. Thus. nothing is totally developed. not even things that dt:scrvc it, hut the unit of song fragments moves better than almost anything else on the record. 
"~kan Mr. Mustard." "l'olythenc !,am." and "She came in Through the Bathroom Window" arc one block. "Mustard uses "Ohla·di" piano and drum work and probably wouldn't stand alone. "l'olythenc Pam" is <J parody of heavy acollslrL·al guitar work and leaves you to sit hack while visions of Paul KL·vcre and thr: 

The Ghoulies and the Ghosties 
by Steve Tapscott 
It was inevitable. The i\gc of i\q uarius and /\polio II has populariLed so many things in so many diffr:rcnt directions: astrology. hair, the quasi·rl'ligious adulation of machinery. Sooner or later it was sure to discover its literary countr:r­part: science fiction. i\nd I, for one, am glad. 
The worth of science fiction is far from the bus-station and underground ·ohscuri· ty which appt:arcd (hut only appr:arcd) to smother it for so long. i\1 its un~:om­promising best. good science fiction is good fiction no less. We know no hook is rl·al, yet we so oftl·n cxped fictional characters to behave ~:onvin~:ingly hy real standards. But science fiction, the art practiced hy masters like Asimov, Korn· hluth, or Bradbury, suspends the verisimi­litude of four-dimensional reality and "realistically" considers olhl·r possihili· ties. The author is freed from gravity and reality. Ut: imagines his own rules ant.!, like Adam's drl·am, they arc real. In such a latitudinarian spl'l'iL~s. ama1ing things arc possible: science fiction can hccoml' pure fantasy, satire, prophcl'y, and un­fortunately also ~:heap drivel. 
The A mlromeda Strai11. hy M ich:rcl Crid1lon (Knopf, $5.95). is an examplc of twaddle, hunk, and bcstscllt:r material. 
Too cleverly disguising itself as a l,enta· gon report, the narrative deals with the world's first hiologicalcnwrgcnl'y. i\mcri· can scientists fig:rt against a mutant strain of Jiving space crystals, suffer irrdevent t:pilcptic attacks, accidentally shoot pey­ote, defuse an atomic homh. change national policy, and kcl'P the world safe 
for  daytime  T.V.  Chrichton  is  an  M.D.  
himself and  a  graduate  of Harvard, hut  
even  that is  no excuse  for his annoying  

fascination with irn;1ginary machines. I a;n gratcful that !here was no sex in Andromeda Strain. Otherwise wt: could expect a had movie vcrsion of a poor novel. 
But even if POll sci·fi produces sut:h mutant strains as Andromeda, it certainly can still create hybrids also. Robert Hcin· lcin's Stranxer in a Stranxe /.and has been Sl'crelly popular for a few years. and it demonstrates that the gl·nrc is L·apablc of strong, resonant fiction. Thl' story of Valentine Michael Smith. thl' man from Mars who comes to our (slrangc) t·;rrth. is fiercely imaginative in its Sl'OJll' and C<IPa· bly satiric in its contl'nl. Srnith. an earthling raised in the supt:r-civili1.cd so­ciety of the Martians, t:omcs involunt;rrily hack to l'arth and tries to teach men. "Thou art (;od." hegins Lesson One. Smith offers to Earthmcn ~lar!ian pa· lienee, psy~:hic slrcngl h. and a tt:ch,Jiquc 

of full wnsciousncss ("grokking"). Earth· men in turn teach him of despair, greed, rl'ligious intolerance and the uniting power of human sexuality. Stranger's end is Christian in a bizarre and terrifying segse, because it is so probable and so t inevitable. And Heinlein proves that we must leave ourselves to understand our­selves, even if that means an imaginative trip to Mars and hack. 
These two recent examplt:s arc insuf­ficient to show the real diversity of good science fiction. Its possibilities arc limited only by the imagination. And if your imagination runs along these patterns, here is good news from WSND radio. The upwming Old Radio Ft:stival (starting Sunday, Sept. 28, II :30 pm) will include The Shadow ("who knows what evil lurks in the hearts of men'!"), Tlte (;reen 1/ornet, Suspen.ve. and the classic radio sciencc-fi~:lion series. X Minus One. i\fter !he festival WSN D·i\M and FM will fea­ture old radio serials twice a week. (i\M:ll:30 p.m., The Shadow always on Monday; FM:7:00 p.m.) i\nd sometime during the year perhaps on Hal· lowcen'1 the sl<llions have promised lL~ Orson Wclle"s notorious War o( the World.\', the sci-fi program that c:.tuscd a nigh I of panic and hysteria in 19.~R long before i\poll o I I . 
"(;olden Slumbers", "You're gonna carry that weight" keeps the life going. "(;olden Slumbers" is a lullaby with a few structural prob· lcms that mean the vocal switches in tone and technique back and forth from the classical Beatie to the Feli<:.:iano chicken soul to the Torn Jones doing Ray Charles blues screaming. l!'s nice, as a song ','·It it's as a springboard for ''Carry that Wt:ight" that it's best. "Carry" is crude with that "Yellow Sub· marine" vocal stylt: and life burs­ting out at the scams. 
The record ends a success. "Car­ry" slips skillfully through a reprise of "You never give me your money" and goes into "The end" a collection of good musical hits in· duding comprehcnsiw catalogue of guitar styles and that damned "lnna (;:ida da Vida" drum riff. The virtuoso produdion techniques fi­nally pay off in the last half-side of the album. The end leaves you L'sthctically satisfied at last. 
But then, twenty seconds after cvcrylhing has ended, friend Bcatles make sure you know they're still in there m<lking games with the gram­mophonc: 
llcr majesty :V a good old girl Aml someday I'm I(O/Ina make her mine 
Buy thc record, hut wait until you can gl.:l it for L'hcap. The wait won't hurt eithcr of you a hit. 


Letters to the Editor 
The OBSI:R J'I:R will print letters to the l:'ditor which are suhmilled prrll'ided that they do not exceed two douh/e spaced typewritten pages and are accompanied hy writer's name and address. The editor reserl'es the right to ll'ithho/d .fi·om puh/ication any letter or part thereof which he deems lihelous or otherwise offc'JHiJ!e. 
Hd. 
Isolating Questions 

Editor: 
Mike Kelly's ROTC (.:O!umn in Monday's Observer succeeded, for the most part, in isolating the essential questions the issue raises at Notre Dame. i.e., the implkations of Christianity for a Christian university in a militaristic society, and the question of opposing ROTC chiefly because it is a branch of the military. 
It is on these lwo points that Mr. Kellv should be debated. The ess•·ntial drawback in his defense of ROTC vis-<1-vis Notre Dame's Christianity is his battling misrepresentation of Christianity itself. The "willingness to allow other human beings to live their lives as they wish without your interference" lll<JY indeed he a legitimate philosophy of life for some Ithough for the soldier, it must he difficult to shoot a 111an 

without  "interfering"  with  his  
life).  hut  it  hardly  can  be  
presented  as  the  "heart  of  

Christianit y." A Christian is not so much interested in letting people alone as he is in bothering them, in helping them to sec the truth he has come to see in what he believes. 
Similarly, a Christian university must help its students in their search for truth, and must insurl' that the search is rigorous and diversified. As Mr. Kelly correctly insists, "the advocates of a Christian university should encour<Jgl' every shade of opinion to express itself." It is just not reasonable. though, to equate 
support for free expression of all opinions with support for such parti(.:u)ar, and theologically shaky, opinions as the ones reconciling Christianity with the violence performed by the military. 
Many of those who link the 

.---------------------------­
ANewLeather for Fashion 

t nms Christian and soldier probably do so because they regard the combin<Jtion, as thl'Y do war, as a necess:~ry evil. Is it by political or spiritual criteria thal the Christian's p<l rticipat ion in war is regarded as '"ne(.:essary"'! Is a man calll·d to live the Christian life only wht·n his life or his country <Jre not at stake? 
Mr. Kelly is not alone in contending that ''ROTC-trained officers h:~Vl' traditionally been a liberalizing and intellectually-uplifting force within the military." It would be presumptuous and unfair to question the sincerity of the advocates of this vit•w, but it would he wise to challenge their judgment. 
For as liberalizing and as intellectually uplifting as all the civili<Jn college ROT(' graduates may <Jttempt to be, their oath of allegiance marks them as members of the military willing to particip<Jte in war. And as much <JS wars arc rationalized or perhaps justified, they arc conducted by killing people, an activity which neither can be liberalized nor intellectually uplifted. 
Sooner or later, the leaders of this university must face the question of ROTC and Notrl' Dame in light of ROTC's link with this reality. For a whole lot of reasons, it might as well bl~ sooner. 
Bill Mitchell 
307 Sorin 

Interesting Statements 
Editor: 

Mike Kelly's column in 
Monday's Obsen·cr contained a 
few interesting statements. 
I) "the heart of Christianity is a willingness to allow other <Js they wish without your in terfercnce" I agree! Therefore I wish the government would stop interfering with the lives of millions of Christian men by forcing them to serve in tlw 

military. 
2) "The leftists on this campus have no mora I privileges 
th<Jt  allow  them  to  take  this  
alternative  (ROTC)  to  regular  
enlistment  <Jw<Jy  from  their  

fellow students" I <~grce again! CPA ne11er asked t hal ROTC be thrown off e<Jmpus_ All Wl' asked was that students take a longer and harder look at ROTC. We did this be(.:<HISe we felt that the prt·senlation of ROTC has usually been om·-sided <Jnd that there were alternatiVl's <Jvailable to those students who wished to wait. We <Jiso did this because some of us are personal friends with peopk-who have tried to get out of ROT(' and have not been <Jhlt· to Jo so. These are people who haVl' changed their minds about serving in the armed forces but art• required to st<Jy in because of contractual 
stipulations. 
3) If the gist of the entire column was the fact that individu<Jls should not be eoer(.:ed into a(.:cepting anot her's viewpoint then again I agree! However in May 1969 there were at least two men in Leavenworth prison, Daniel Amick and Kenneth Stolle, Jr.. 
members of the Armed Porces they m<Jde public or private statements against the war. Does this sound like an institution which respects the personal decision of an individual'! 
I make no pretensio~s that the Army can be run efficiently if in every situation each individual makes his own decision. All I ask is that each individual understand that by serving in the military he is very possibly giving up his right to decide (to anot her person) about whether or not he should kill other human beings. Myself and many others feel we cannot give up this right. 
Fred Oedrkk 
426 Morrissey Hall 
Student lJn~on 
Editor: 

Last night at Freshman Activities Night the Student Union displayed a lack of organi1.ation that has become almost typi(.:a) during my residen(.:e at Notre Dame. However, it was not the )a(.:k of organization that I found offensive last night, instead, it was the one part of the program 
that  appeared  all  too  well  
planned.  
Mr.  Jones,  last  night  you  
a I i enated  every  political  
organization  when  that  CPA  

member began to read verbatim from the paper in his hand, and (.:ailing for the Young Repuhli(.:ans to close their booth so everyone could listen to the CPA propaganda was more than I (.:Ould stoma(.:h. I've never felt this way before, but possibly it was for the better that John Mroz lost last year. Although I may not agree with him, I've always found Fred Dedrich to be 
human beings to live their lives who were imprisoned because <JS a politically fair person. 
---·----------------------, 
...by ~!!fk 

10C a beer at the AL.UMNI CL.UB 
Tom Murphy YAF 


7-Bpm Wednesday & Thursday 
(;cnnal Meeting


SMC girls invited also. 
Coalition for PolitiL·al AL·tion 
Thursday X:OO p.m. 
II XNieuwland

. . . members only 

c: 
0
·;:; 
e
.. 
0
... 
-= 
c: 
0 
..
;:;.. a. 
::1 
;; E
ct 
3 
.,
be on carnpus u iL "' 
fashion leather that complements 
the lighter tans and olives of today's colorful styles. 
Distinctive. Contemporary. A MUST for the coordi· 

SLC 
nated wardrobe. British Tan ... by Douglas. 

APPLICATIONS ARE NOW BEING ACCEPTED FOR THE POST OF EXECUTIVJ:: SECRETARY OF THF STUDENT LIFE COUNCIL. THE POSITION ENTAILS THE 
CHECKS WELCOr.1E WITH J.D. 

'RECORDJN(; OF ALL STUDENT LIFE COUNCIL MINUTFS. 'li-IF POSITION MAY 
CARRY A SALARY. THIS WILL BF DETERMINED BY THE FINANCIAL 
SITUATION OF THE STUDENT.
BECKER'S r.1EN'S SHOES 

SEND APPI JC'ATIONS TO FRFD DFDRICK BOX 522, STUDENT GOV'T. OFFICE. PLEASI·: INCLUDE LIST OF ALL EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
BECKER'S I\1EN'S SHOES 

AND Q!'AUFI\ATIONS.
108 S, MICH. ST. 



P/\'3E 7

THURSDAY,SEPTEMBER 25,1969 

-----=-T;='II.=-'E---"'O=!&£='ER=IIER=-------________ _______________ 
Shaffer IS appointed to reVISIOn committee 
hy Mike Mooney 
Updating thL' constitution of an im:rcasingly urban Indiana will he the goal of Dr. Thomas 
L. Shaffer, associate dean of the Notre Dame Law School, who was appointed to the Indiana Constitutional Revision Commis­sion. State Senator Allan Bloom, President pro tempore of the state senate and Indiana llousc Speaker Otis Bowen made the appointment in August. 
The Constitutional Revision Commission, comprised of repre­sentatives of Indiana's courts, industry, universities and county officials. will examine the state's 
I I 7-year-old constitution for possible modcrnit.ing revisions. The Revision Commission is currently in its opening stage~. 
Its ;lroposals. once formulated, 
will he studied by the legislative general assembly and submitted to the people of Indiana for final approval. 
Dr. Shaffer sees problems with the constitution on both the sta te-widc and local levels. 
"The constitution builds on the suppositi"·l that a weak state government is a good thing." said the associate dean. 
"For example, the governor cannot succeed himself; he has too little power for a modern government. The legislature only met·ts every two years for sixty days," he continued. 
The constitutional problems on the local level center on an indecisive legislative policy regar­ding the cities. 

"The constitution was written for a frontier. <Jgrarian society-­and simply docsn 't work for a modern, urban state," Shaffer commented. 
"Tht• statutes of local govern­ments build on an agrarian base; there arc really no adeq uatc pro­visions for a city, no contempla­tion of a modern metropolitan government." 
The county and township are the dominant divisions of government in Indiana, both rurally oricn ted and both with few considerations for the place of the city in local government. 
"There is no contemplation of modern urban government that crosses county lines and sup­plants county government," he added. 
Dr. ShaHer est tma ted that currently Indiana is divided about "half-and-half" between urban and rural populations, a fact which may surprise many ND -SMC ;:tudents. Currently the state I ists four major popula­tion areas: Indianapolis, (~ary, l:'vansvillc and South Bend. 
OnL' area Shaffer would rather sec the state stay away from is Indiana's colleges and univer­sities. He is not in favor of any legislation aimed at punishing schools for campus violence, pre­ferring that state governments follow a "hands-off" policy towards colleges. The [tssot:iate dean added that most of the pressure applied to universities comes mainly from federal not state sources. 
Dr. Shaffer did not feel that the position on the Commission would drastically curtail his actt­vity at Notre Dame. "I foresee full Cornrntssion meetings every two months," he said. 
As an appointee to the revt­sional body, Dr. Shaffer repre­sents the universities of lndiara. As a lawyer and euucator, nc is well suited to the task. Shaffer has taught at Notre Dame sincr 1963. From IY6!-!l)(l3, he ser­ved as a lawyer with Barnes. llicham, l'anll.er & Boyd in Indianapolis. 
The associate dean of the La\\ School is a member of thL AmeriL·an Bar Association, the American Association of Univer­sity Professors. and the National Association for the J\dvanCL'­ment of Colored People. 




er. 


All you do is drop a film cartridge into aKodak lnstamatic camera and take Penny. For keeps. In beautiful color snapshots or color slides. Indoors, pop on a flashcube. it's so much easier than painting a white picket fence. 
Kodak lnstamatiC''color cameras. From less than '10. 
., 





Veterans provide Autumn strength for clubs 
crosse will he forthcoming a I Phil Krause·. Mike Morrissoll, and them is John Pedrotti at center inside track with a nod going to
LacrosSt~ 

next Monday's (Sept. 2ll) organi­.I ohn llaagl·nharl h. I hus providing expnienced goal-Brie for the Purdue opener. 
Coming off a strong season's t.alional meeting to be held at St. Louis llnivcrsity will meet producing power. The backfield Other candidates are Sergio Ben­finish last spring which carried 7:00 in room 107 O'Shaugncssy I he Irish in the season's first is almost as wteran as the line dixen and Tom Makielski. them to the Mid-west Club As­lbll. The Clinit.: itself is home ganw. Ot·tolwr 4th. The with Abrams and Jack Coldkamp Despite the apparent success sociation championship. Notre s~.:hedulcd to begin workouts on Ill a trht·~ <trt' play•·d behind at the halfback slots and Rick of the team most members elect 
Dame's Lacrosse Club opens its Wednesday, October I. Stepan Centn. with a "B" game Coleman at right full. Only Ken to remain a dub sport rather fall season of practice eyeing beginning at 10:30 and the "A" Foley, a new man, and .Jim 1han make the transition to var­
rtuguy

betterment of last year's 4 5 game immediately following the l'atton. who was injured last sity status. Abrams, who is a record ( 4 0 in league play). This The rd urn of a number of first t.:onl est. year, are lacking game cxperi-walk-on himself, feels that this year's fall practice will differ vett•rans, headed by high scoring ence. Meanwhile the battle for way everyone has more of a
Soccer 

gn.:atly from previous workouts Bill" Monah:m, installs the Notre the all important goalie slot may cham:e to make the team. No which tended to overlook the Dame Rugby Club as odds-on b1ger and optimistic, that's go any one of four ways. Last one should argue, not even the eager hut inexpericncl'd mem­favorites to win their season the best way to describe the season's ~tarter Rob McAleer football team would call a 10-2 bers of the squad. Senior Cap­opening battle with John Carroll lll6ll edition of the Notre Dame and Maury Brie seem to have thl record a failure. tain Tim McHugh pluns i·.1stl'ad College in Cleveland Saturday. Socen (') ub as thL'Y await their to initiate a "Lacrosse Clinic" Captain and club president, opL'ning contest this Saturday for Freshman and Sophomore Mikl· l'aterni, in summing up against the Boilermakers of Pur­stickmen. McHugh says that the prospc~.:ts for the coming season, due. (The game will prccedl' the emphasis of the clinic will he on expects "a definite improvement football game.) fundamentals in order that those over our H-6 record of last W·,e. ast eel \VP~lt type of ~JCU­


sports parade

unfamiliar with the game hut spring. All 15 star!ers !his year son the team should have this willing to play might benefit the are juniors or seniors and their year Captain Greg Abrams stated club. "If we can build a potent experience should prove a valu­without hesitation, "Ten and 
By Milt Richman, UPJ r.port:o: C3lllmn;st 

offense around the Freshmen abk ass<'! to !he dub." lwo. any thing less will he a and Sophomores to back <!11 al­Whilt' Monahan is wnsiden·d disappointment." 11111111111111~1111111111111111111111111111111111 ready defensive-minded squad," to be Notre Dame's top offen­There is little doubt why 
It's that time of year

declared McHugh, "then the sive !hreat, Tom llurh:hy. a jun­Abrams thinks so highly of this prospect for a highly successful ior. and senior Sal Bomniaritto squad. Virtually all of last year's NEW YORK (UPI) The Boston Red Sox didn't bother using spring season looks good. This will also give Irish opppne_n),,, team returns to give the Irish any of the old household standards. will depend mainly on the turn­many anxious moments. hooters scoring punch and a No soft soap, no simple syrup, no sugar coating. 
In addition !o Paterni, Mona­stingy defense. Every one on the ThL'Y gave it to Dick Williams straight. That's usually the best way
out we get at the Clinic." In line with the clinic concept, the La­han, and Bommaritlo, seniors front line is comparable to u anyway. Dave Fleming. Skip Cilmartin. letterman on a varsity scale. If Dick Williams doesn't know you hl•'ll tell you his firing hy the
crosse Club has tentatively scheduled a Nov. I game with Gary Gh:ason, Jim Butler, and John Amato and Tim Patton Ih·d Sox didn't hurt that much. Hl·'s fibbing. It hurt. It always docs. 
Paul Rogers should be in the man the right and left wings, It hurt Dick Williams the same way it's going to hurt Lury
Michigan for the Frosh-Soph at starting lineup Saturday, as wl'll respectively. At the inside for­Shepard when they tell him uny day now thL'Y have plans forNotre Dame. 

are sOJm·body else, probably Don Hoak. to pilot Pittsburgh nexl year.

as juniors llurlt'hy, Bill Berry, wards Jim Schweit/.er and ten.:sted in participating in La-Charlie Blum, Chuck Pt·trowsk i. .Fred Rohol. Teaming next to It hurt Dick Williams thl' same way it's going to hurt Dave Bristol when he gets the sad news. too, unless Cincinnati negotiates some 
More details for those in­

• miracle turn:nound in thl' nexl few days. 
Williams got the unhappy tidings suddenly Monday during the middle of his working day at Fenway Park. 

Olson WinS defensive honors 
Besides Bob Olson, Mike McCoy also won honors for his CHICAGO (UP!) Notre 
tk had made out his lineup for the game with the Yankees that

defensive pJay against Northwestern. Sports ll/ustruted Dame linebackn Bob Olson con­
night and now there were a few other details he wantL:d to check 
tributes more than just his abi­

named McCoy ..linemail of the week." with Dick O'Connell, the club's executive vice-president and general
lity to tackle to the football 
munager, so he went upstairs to O'Connell' offit.:c. 
success of the Fighting Irish. 
Tile two ll1L'n chatted a few minutcs. and then Williams. who had
This we~:k his "other" abilities 
hl'L'n talking about hh coaches, asked O'Connell:
wert:· as important as his tackling 
"llow about our status for nrxt year'' I mean for the coaches and
in making him VPI Mid we:;! linc­
myself. Will WL' he coming hack''" ' lllan of tht: week. 
"Lit·k. I'm afraid not,'' O'Connell said. 
"lie displayed gr~.:at lt:adership A11d that. of courSL'. was that. in a very tough situation. aftn Tht: reason O'Connell gave Williams for his dismissal was "lack of we were behind I0 0,'' Irish coml'lllnicalion with the playns." It is an old read but it was true. eoad1 Ara Parseghian said. "In Dick Williams didn't have all the tools in the world as a ballplayer. getting the dl'fense tog~:ther and Ht· h~d to 111akL· il the hard way to the majors and afln he did it still stopp;ng NorthWL'stern. Aftn 1ook all he had to hung on 14 SL'asons. ' they gt'l that kad. they couldn't All this looks fine in the renml book hut kw of the Rt•d Sox 
player> c;1red ubout that Then wus then: now is J)(!W. Soon. ~~ sJnaJI breach developed bet\'IL'L'n lhL'Ill aPd Williams.
Olson. a 230-pound 6-footcr 
( :radually it became a little widn. II wasn't anything you could
from Supnior, Wis .. playing his 
n·ally put your fingL'r on but it was thl'fL'. Thl· same as exists on
third varsity season for Notre 
somL' other dubs, the sa Jill' <IS it 'II ,·ost sonll' othn managns lhl·ir
l>ame. was one of th~: main cogs 
jobs.
in physically stopping the Wild­Nobody can rightly say who is more to blame for this condition,
cats. the managn or lhL' players. Possibly both are, hut if anyom· has "IIis blilt. in the passing situa­come up with some solution he's keeping it a big secret. tions was extremely effective,'' Only a ft•w days ago I asked Dick Williams how things looked for Parseghian said. "lk's very him for the next year. strong against the run, too, and "I think 1'111 co1ning hack," he said. "I still have anotlwr year to he's so hard to block that he has go on my conlr<Jcl. At least I've been given to Jtndnsl;md I'm kverage on the ball carrier. lie coming haL·k. line, take a look at this!" was very instrumcnt<Jl in our It was tlw RL·d Sox ~t<Jti\lil-shL'l't and Dick Williams was pointing goal-line stands when Nor! h­to the club's total home alt"mhJnce whit.:h was aln·ady more than western had several d~aJKL's to 1.ooo.oon. score." "This has to mean somclhin!! to them,'' he said. 
!t did. but obviously not enough for them to bring Williams back St<.dislit'<JIIy, Olson wound up a~···in next year. 
with eight solo tackles and as­At 40, he is not ready to retire yet by an•; means. He's still the sisted on four others. more than same guy who guided the I00 lo I shot Red ~ox hom~ in front only ;my ol her Irish defendn. In ad­
two years ago and ill''s a L·inch to wind up with another b<~seballjob. dition he intercepted one pass Now the Red Sox have to hire themselves a new manager. <111d returned 1'i yards. I ima·~ine it'll he hldie Kasko. or maybe Sam Mde. Kasko is the 
qt.il'! little guy who used to play the infield for the Cardiml!s, Rl'tb,
Where he stood out most 
Astros and Red Sox. He's the top t:andidale now because ht• helpl'd
hrighll). though. was when 
develop such kid~ as Billy Conigliaro, Luis Alvarado. Ken Brett and
Northwestern quarterback Dave 
Tony Muser at Louisville lhis year and the word is he gets along well
Shelhourm· went hack to pass. 
with young players.
Twelve limes the Irish forwurds 
No matter who the new Red Sox managn is, Dick Williams wishes 
hroke through and tossed him 
him v·e:J. 
for losses of 90 y<Jrds. 
"I sincerely do,'' he says. "I have no bitterness toward thL' Red 
Three times Olson alone 
Sox. I thank them for the opportunity they gave me, and I'm proud
nailed Sht•lhourne for his biggest

• Irish co-captain Rob Olson was one of two Irish linemen to win bo­of my effnrb in the· three years I've been with them. Of course, you
losses and on those three tackles

:lors for last week's play. sorta hate to leave ..." 
Shelhournc lost 30 yards. 
lt always b:1rts when they say you have to. 

·~ n c hf1agsai:;~~ ..~~·aJ~IS~~~~n·~~~:~~~:;;t(~J~~JI:


Mets CI 
lrom thL' other fellows 111 the li1~e. We had three young kids in thl'rL' and they wnc very aggrl'S-
St0 p Ca r ds, 6 • 0 
sive. and gave me the rhann·s. II w;•sn't me alone." 




