
TMH relates views on Violent student protest 
Reverend Theodore llesburgh where the president speaks up or 
C.S.C. was int1•rviewcd on the nobody speaks up. This isn't the 
E

topic of student disorder by kind of thing to be written by a 
llugh Downs and Joe Garagiola committee. You have to say 
Sr. yesterday morning on the what's in your heart about the 
TODAY show. institution and you know you 
have the support of theThe focal point of interest community."
during the early morning Father Hcsburgh pointed outbroadcast was He::;burgh's recent that it is essential to preserve thestatement decisi"cly condemning university, because it is an openthe use of violence in student society where problems can beprotest. 
discussed, and that it is the placellesburgh was asked why he 
where "th? style of life is issued the statement in spite of 
rationality." He added, the fact there is no major 
"Violence is against everythingstudent unrest at Notre Dame at 
the university stands for." present. He replied that it was 
The television interviewers "time to establish rules for our 
were anxious to know if he own order or we arc to be thought his statement could be ordered from the outside and 
applied to other institutions as that will mean the end of the 
well as Notre Dame. Hcsburghuniversity." 
replied, "Yes,... What I have said 
Questioned whether he should be applicable to all 
thought his statement was universities. Every university 
hardline, he said "I didn't think should be able to talk and 
it was that tough. I thought it communicate freely.'·' 
was fairly rational....! think you Hesburgh was asked if he was 
have to think through a situation the existence of an outside 
before it happens." threat to the university. "Unless 
The university president went universities control themselves 
on to say that although young they will be controlled from the 
people have a lot to be upset outside," he replied. 
with today, in addition "the He went on to say that it was 
world has a lot for the middle a small proportion of the 
age and older people to be upset students creating the scenes on 
wi~h." college campuses. Most students, 
he emphasized "arc better than
Answering a question about public response to his recent ever from every point of view. 
They are more motivated, better
statement, he said there has been 2u9 letters and telegrams sent to educated, more interested, and 
more sensitive to spiritual andhim, all expressing approbation moral issues of our times."
:>f his action. The only dissenter, 
Hesburgh concluded his
llcsburgh noted, was the student interview stressing the point thatbody president, who felt the all scholarly institutions arestudents should have been more strongly against violence andinvolved with the letter. 
infringement of other people'sIn defense of his statr;ment, rights, and that this factor is the he declared, "I think we've come 
important one, for "Statements to the point in the university per sc, don't solve anything." 
REACTION 
Fr. Hesburgh's office was -one from SBP J. Richard 
deluged with letters and Rossie, the other from Robert 
telegrams yesterday after he Sam Anson, a former 
appeared on NBC's "Today" ORSER VER editor. 
show to discuss his "get tough" From what was reported to be 
policy, threatening suspension, one of the heaviest volumes of 
expulsion, and arrest to all mail ever to be received at a 
die-hard demonstrators. Notre Dame President's office, 
The President's office came messages from nearly every 
reported that within 48 hours state and bearing the signatures 
after the policy statement was of trustees, parents of students, 
issued, 269 telegrams and letters alumni, groups of students, 
were received, only two of faculty at Notre Dame and other 
which were "critical or negative" schools, and the general public. 
SMC considers policy On demonstrations 
The Student Affairs Counc11 also recognizes the student's of Saint Mary's College began right of appeal." consideration yesterday The policy which the council afternoon of a formal policy on determines will be that on which campus demonstrations. The College President Msgr. John J. council will continue discussion McGrath will act. The council in the ncar future in order to studied Father Hesburgh's policy determine the college's official statement on demonstrations, policy. Student Body President but took issue with parts of it. Therese Ambrusko, a council Miss Ambrusko said that she did member, said that she is not agree that the Dean of "de tcrmined to uphold the Students should decide on what students' rights to free speech, constitutes a disruptive demonstration, due process, and demonstration. appeal", in the council's The ad hoc committee on deliherations. student seating on faculty 
The council released a committees also met yesterday. statement yesterday on its They will complete work next position toward demonstrations week on a proposal to have until the formal policy is students seated on a number of determined: "During the interim committees. Their proposal will period, the Council recognizes be submitted to the Faculty the responsibility of the Assembly. The ad hoc President to maintain peace and committee did not considCf order. This includes suspension student seating on the Rank and or expulsion when necessary to Tenure Committee, which would maintain this order. The Council go into effect next year. 

OBSERVER 
Sert~ilflthe Notre Dtlme •nd St. Mtuy 'J OJU'Je Com~n~~~~lty 
VOL. Ill, NO. 85 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21,1969 

Student leaders meet in Joint session-discuss honor 
Yesterday a joint meeting of Monday. He explained that this student under 21 will be warned the Student Senate, the Hall report will be incorporated in a of the consequenses of their President's Council, and the bill that the SLC will act on. actions, but the University will student members of the Student Rossie then explained that the leave enforcement of the law to 
Life Council was held in the bill contains three sections. The civil authorities. Student Amphitheater of La first section establishes a Each hall will be allowed to Fortune. Student Body Tripartite Hall Review Board as determine its own parietal hours, President Richard Rossie a subcommittee of the SLC, within a certain limit. The bill 
explained that the purpose of composed of two students, two restricts parietal hours to 
the meeting was to discuss the administrators, and one faculty weekends, between 5:00 p.m. on recent actions of the Honor member. Each hall will be Friday and 8:00 p.m. Sunday. Council and to inform the required to submit a hall Parietal hours will also be 
students of the Hall Life Bill constitution, a list of all hall excluded between I: a.m. and pending before the SLC. officers, and a list of all Judicial noon on weekends. Finally, each 
Tom Voss, head of the Honor Board members to the Review hall will be limited to a total of Council, explained that the Board. 24 parietal hours per weekend. recent action by the council was The Review Board will have The final section of the bill motivated by the council's belief no legislative powers, but will be deals with the enforcement of that the Honor Concept and the able to review actions taken by a hall rules and the roles of hall honor system were not working hall council by a hall if it is prefects and rectors. at Notre Dame. This belief was asked to do so. The Board will Enforcement of hall rules will prompted, he said, by "letters study the actions and be left to students and prefects from faculty and students saying recommend a solution to the within the present framework of that there arc flagrant violations problem to the proper authority. the judicial system. The role of of the honor code in certain The second section of the bill the hall rector will be restricted classes." deals with student drinking and to spiritual counsilling and the 
Voss explained that the parietal hours. The present rule day-to-day administration of the Council's leave of absence was on drinking will be changed to a hall. "to promote an air of cri$16" so statement of the Indiana State 
continued on page 2

that the students themselves Law. This means that any 
would be forced to confront the honor system. This confrontation is supposed to promote dialogue among the students and this dialogue is supposed to resolve the problem. 
The students are supposed to realize, said Voss, "that the honor system means the student must take responsibility for the person next to him. Only then can they truly say, 'Yes, I want the Honor System."' Voss explained that the students can't take responsibility only for themselves because the faculty will not accept that type of system. 
Those attending the meeting were critical of the Honor Council's opinion that the honor system was not working, and were especially critical of the Council's unilateral decision to take a leave of absence without first informing or consulting anyone else. 
However, those at the meeting concluded that the Council's action could not be reversed and the only course of action would be to re-evaluate the Honor Concept. 
The course of action will involve three parts. The student leaders will hold meetings with 

the students and gather their •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
ideas about any changes they have in mind. These leaders along with the Honor Council, would then draw up referendums incorporating these -Federal Grant of $1,800,000 for new Bio building pg.7 ideas. The students would then vote on these referendums -Don Hynes replies to Hesburgh's letter pg.4 
within two or three weeks. 
The second part of the -Sacred Heart Church-Renovated Romanesque(?) pg.7

meeting dealt with the actions of the SLC. Rossie said that the 

-Tom Ehrbar writes his mother pg.S
Hall Life Report of the SLC will come before the SLC on 

.........................................., 
•
• 

On The Inside • 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21,1969

PAGE 2 
THE OBSERVER 















STEWART SANDWICH 



Student leaders discuss Council 
SERVICE 

continued from page 1 Personnel. This is a new office overwhelmingly on Monday." said that he would like to which will handle the While other SLC members continue these joint meetihgs onAvailable in every 
The appointing of hall diff d · h h d f h 
a monthly basis in order to
fects, which is presently appointment and placing of ere w1t t e spee o t e
hall on campus 

Pre f t passage of this bill, they all ' ' e x c h a n g e i d e a s a n d' Stewart Sandwich dl.Vl·ded between the Dean of pre ec s. 
dd·t· h h ll il concluded that the bill would be information."
S t u d e n t s a n d Father In a 1 wn, eac a councService CommenUllg on the SLC,
M c C a r r a g her, will be will be able to voice an opinion adopted by the SLC within two
925 Blaine 

Rossie said, "I think theCO-nSOlidated Under an On the number of prefects it week]>.
232-2625 students wast to see the SLC

autonomous Director of Student wants in its hall. The council will Rossie then exp\amed that 
move faster and 1 lgree. But------------'----------------, advise the Director of Student after the bill passer the SLC, it 
Personnel of its opinion and this will go to Father Hesburgh. He because the SLC is a legislative opinion will be taken into will then have two weeks to act body, it cannot move too fast."
,,
''Best of Everything 
consideration. on this bill, either by approving Voicing an opinion on this -it or by passing it on to the Yeats discusses bill, SBP Rossie stated, "I think Board of Trustees. However,

Party 
it is a very good bill and I think Father Hesburgh will be unable Political career these resolutions will ass to veto the bill. 
to"-"'"'"-=~~~==!---!~'--"='-; After the Hall Life Bill is Of his father
Bud -Brand X -Stag Prices 
NEED ROOMMATE considered, Rossie said that the Michael Yeats, son of William SLC will discuss other issues
Saturday, Feb. 22, 8:30-2:00 
Butler Yeats, spoke about hisFurnished House, Garage, -such as an increase in the 
father's place in Irish politics last Hillside Barn 
and Live-in Maid number of organizational cars night. Speaking to a group of 85,
Call 289-2637 and the issuP. of cars fqr jUniors. 
Mr. Yeats sought to provide an After the meetin~~:. SBP Rossie Buses Leave Circle 8:00, 8:20. 8:45, Q:OO intimate view of his father and 
F------------------------.J-----------~------''---------------, to c I ear up sever a I 
misconceptions about him. 
He showed that W.B. Yeats was not reactionary, but was a leading figure in the events leading up to the Irish revolution. Briefly mentioning his father's love for Maud Gonne, he said that W.B. Yeats was a Republican prior to falling in love with her. He .also said that his father felt that there could be no fme Irish literature without Irish independence, and vice versa. He said that W.B. Yeats was not a fascist, as often claimed. He was interested in Fascism as a movement, but rejected it early. 
Michael Yeats then showed a more personal side of his father. He said that W.B. Yeats was often incoherent and contradictory in his views. He was a "shy, introverted man" that had to make a conscious effort to become involved in
Individuals majoring in Computer Science, Engineering (Electrical, Mechanical 
politics. Finally he observed that 
or Industrial), Mathematics, and Physics will be interviewed by Collins Radio 
his father was "an able and sometimes unscrupulous
Company. 

manager" of the political committees that he served. 
March 3, 1969 


Miller

Some facts about Collins: 
1 Collins pioneered many of today's data techniques and recently announced a 

Makes it 

computer-controlled design and manufacturing service for customers. 


Right!
2. The company ranks as the largest independent producer of microwave systems. 
l More than 75% of the commercial airlines use navigation/communication equip­ment supplied by Collins. 
4. The company designs and installs computer systems for the military and for railroads, airlines and many other industrial organizations. 
6. Collins serves as the prime contractor on NASA's worldwide Apollo tracking network. 
l The company is recognized as one of the world's leading manufacturers of commercial broadcast equipment. 
Z Collins received the first contract awarded to a single company to design, equip and build an earth station for satellite communications. 
Contact your College Placement Bureau for additional information. COLLINS 
The Observer Is published daily
an equal opportunity employer ~ 
during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre· Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 



~~-~----­
PAGE3
THE OBSERVER 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21,1969 
Ambrusko issues statement 

THE WORLD TODAY 
The more basic issue is one of St. Mary's Student Body Members of the St. Mary's principle. Students are definitely
President Therese Ambrusko community: 
able to evaluate a teacher's issued a statement yesterday in The Committee on Rank and 
~bility, methods, and techniquesLaird: Soviets testing ABM system response to the letter to the Tenure has decided it has not to m the classroom. This evaluation 
SMC student body published date received sufficient new must be formally consideredWASHINGTON (UPI) -Defense Secretary Melvin R. Laird said 
yesterday concerning the evidence to warrant a 
whenever the question of ayesterday that the Soviet Union is testing a "sophisticated new ABM disposition of the cases of reconsideration of the decision it teacher's competence in thesystem_" ~nd that he personally leans toward American 'deployment several dismissed instructors. previously made regarding the classroom arises. For this reasonof a m1ssde defense system of its own. 
non-renewal of certain faculty we must firmly establish officialTh~ unsettled q_uestion in his mind, Laird told the Senate Foreign contracts. While the committee 
Relations Committee, is what kind of protection the U S channels through which student
ArtFestival 
has this legal right, it is not evaluation will be respected and
antiballistic missile system should afford. · · possible to evaluate the decision
The Black Arts Festival will 
effective.

That was Laird's reply to growing numbers of congressional critics without II' knowledge of all the
open today with a film festival
of the Sentinal ABM system who question whether t.tsieffectiveness Finally, the present structure
facts involved. This does not
and an art exhibit, both
:-vould be worth the cost-now estimated at $6 billion-and who fear must be changed because it does 
mean that all cases involved are
featuring the works of
1ts deployment would accelerate the Soviet American arms race. not provide any mer.ns of
closed issues. Father McGrath
prominent Black artists. This is 
recourse to insure the correction who makes all final decisions o~
the first of three phases of the 
of injustice, if one does occur.
Pueblo crew wanted U.S. retaliation entire festival which in March contracts, has stated the CORONADO' Calif. (UPI)-The captured crew of the USS Pueblo with a drama festival a series of 
students may bring 
Therese Ambrusko 

wanted the United States to attack North Korea even if it meant appearances by noted Black recommendations, or new their deaths, enlisted men testified yesterday. literary figures. evidence, directly to him. Student Body President Quartermaster Charles Law told a Navy Court of Inquiry their There will be two captors warned they would be executed immediately if the United feature-length films screened in 
Mardi Gras freshman winners
States struck back for the seizure of the intelligence ship. the Engineering Auditorium "We waited for the United States to punish the bunch of tonight at 7:00. These will be Ken Morris Orchestra. 
The Mardi Gras raffles proved 
barbarians they had over there, but it didn't happen," said Law, 27, "Black Girl" and "Nothing But a The carnival, which openedto be very beneficial to threeof Chealis, Wash. Man," dealing with the struggle last Wednesday, came off wellNotre Dame freshman this
o_f the Black man. Following the 
both financially and artistically:weekend. On Sunday night Pat
Sirhan offers to enter plea of guilty films there will be a question Anderson of 216 Cavanaugh The Keenan booth was credited and answer period.
_LOS AN_GELES (UPI) -Sirhan B. Sirhan -offered to enter a plea of won a 1969 Cadillac on a ticket with taking in the most money.
This phase of the Black Arts 
gu~t~ t? frrs~ degree murder but the offer was rejected because he he bought five minutes before The prize for the best booth
Festival is being produced by
als m~sted 1t be accompanied by a life prison sentence instead of the 8:00 deadline. He we~t to the Arnold Air Society,
Jymie Productions, "a Brooklyn
death, 1t was revealed yesterday. <Hmounced that he is going to which had Switzerland for its
based film producing
Superior Court Jud~e Herbert V. Walker made public a transcript !.cl the car and split the profits theme. Second place went to
corporation involved in the areas
of a conference held m secret yesterday morning at which it was ··~t his freshman partner in the Morrissey Hall while the 
of educational consultation
brought out that the judge insisted the jury would have to decide on 1 -· .;hase, Channing Brackey. . California Club took third.
lecturing and exhibitions t~
the penalty. Last night, Tony Mitchell, a
stimulate Black
The conf~rence was called when defense attorney Grant Cooper Zahm freshman, won the
communications."

made a mohon for a mistrial in the case against Sirhan, charged with student prize, a 1969 Olds 442.
The exhibit will take place in
the murder of_ S~n. Robert F. Kennedy, because of a story in Brackey's stub was one of the
the Art Gallery and will consist
yesterday mormng s Los Angeles Times. ]800 or so that were submitted
of photographs and works of 
while Anderson had to contend
graphic arts by six prominent 
Held Over 2nd Week

Marines fight N. VIets ridge to ridge Black artists. There will also be with 20,000 other 
chance-holders.

SAIGON (UPI) -American Marines fought North Vietnamese displayed ten recently acquired 
The weekend began with the
regulars from ridge to ridge thousands of feet above the A Shau posters from the Communist 
Mardi Gras Ball, in the
Valley_ ye~terday and kil~ed at_ least 105 Communists, including 41 government of Cuba. The 
concourse of the Convocation
who d1ed m_ one _clash while_ trymg to save two big artillery pieces. exhibit will be shown during 
Center. Approximately 850
The . Mannes mched their way across the jagged mountain peaks regular gallery hours, today Frc!hkenheimer• ' 
couples danced to the sounds of
370 miles north north cast of Saigon in heat which did not drop through Sunday. 
the Intruders, backed up by the
below 100 degrees until dusk, UPI correspondent David Lamb reported. Tomorrow evening four documentaries will be shown at 
LOUIE'S
Israel leaning toward diplomacy now the same time and place. These 
include two on the Jives of slain
JERUSALEM (UPI) -Israel was reported leaning toward 
Black Martyrs Martin Luther 
the Gentlemen
diplomacy yesterday and not reprisal-"for the time being"-in 
King, Jr. ("The King Is Dead") 
& Ladies place
dealing with the latest Arab attack on an Israeli airliner. But Defense 
M~ha>nlrw

and Malcolm X ("Malcolm X,
Minister Moshe Dayan said if and when Israel does strike it will hit 
Struggle for Freedom"). The
the Arabs "in the place where it will hurt them most." 
other two films will be "Black
In Beirut, Lebanon, headquarters of Arab terrorists, there was a 
Panther" and "Kick."

hint of disapproval in the press of the attack on the El AI jetliner last 
Attention, All Spring-Minded St. Mary's Girls: 
Mr. Jimmie Mannas, president 
Tuesday at Zurich, Switzerland. 
It's ~ard to believe that spring is just around the corner!
of Jymie Productions as well as
Mideast tension was further heightened by Iraq's announement 
Bento~ s hopes to ~ake you aware of this fact by showing you
contributor, and Mr. Herbert
that it had executed seven men none of them Jews-convicted of 
all the1r new fash nns for the coming season. Tomorrow will
Randall, another of the
spying for Israel and Britain's statement that it may ·ontinue to 
b~ "St. Mary's Day" at Benton's. HQstessing the affair, which 
contributors, are here to assist in 
supply arms to Mideast nations. 
setting up the exhibit and in 
will run from noon to 4 p.m., along with myself, will be Kerry 
llighly placed sources in Jcrusalcm said that for the moment Israel 
showing the films. They will also 
~ng, JudyLeRose, and Mary Hallisey. We invite you to come
will take action through diplomatic channels on the Zurich attack. A 
give two lectures on the "Black 
m an_d brow~ around, and by all means, register for the free
strong protest note was being prepared for submission to the United 
Cinema" and Black phtography· 
drawmg to be held at 4, by means of which several items for
Nations General Assembly. Israel's previous raid on Beirut's 
Saturday and Sunday at 2:00
International Airport for an earlier attack on an Israeli airliner 
spring will be given away. Remember! Benton's wants to be 
p.m. in the Library Auditorium.
bro t U.N. condemnation. 
your kind of store. Bernadine 


Budweiser® is the King of Beers® 

I
(But you know that) 

.,______..;....:;..:__.., . -..t"!itl1 

§~mllf@ml@ 
, l1 S. Michigan St. Downtown So. Bend 


ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC.-ST. lOUIS • NEWARK • LOS ANGELES • TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS 
PAGE4 

THE OBSERVER FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21,1969 




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 
The Honeymoon Is Over 
his community government idea was put into effect with its almost endless number of tri-partite committees and sub-committees, the student body believed it was gaining an active voice in College affairs. It .took the non-renewal of the contracts of several of St. Mary's fmest young teachers to teach the truth to the students. 
On levels where the weight is important the students found that community gov~rnment somehow failed to include them. McGrath?s disregard for the students proved that his idea of; a "rna ture young woman" proved to be . a pre-adolescent of about ten years of age. Unfortunately the price of that knowledge was high. 
When the SMC students challenged the non-renewal of the instructors' contracts they had two goals in mind. The first, to obtain a reconsideration of the cases of the teachers involved by the Committee on Rank and Temlre with possible written recommendations from 
After a year and a Ifalf, tltil St. Mary's student body has fmally learned what Father McGrath and "community government" actually mean. When 
While the first goal is lost, the second is very much alive. In McGrath's letter denying a re-examination of the faculty cases, he said the proposition of giving the students "a more formal voice in academic and faculty affairs is being studied." It had better be implemented. 
To add insult to injury McGrath threatened immediate and irrevocable expulsion without appeal to any militant action of the student holly-this to a student body which has never ever threatened a sit-in, and which had conducted its negotiations with McGrath with as much wisdom and maturity as can be expected from any group. It was McGrath who was rude. Fortunately, in the near future the Student Affairs Committee will set a demonstrations policy which will include appeal. 
We urge that the faculty and administration of 
students, failed. And it was a shock to the St. Mary's include the students in its Committee students. But McGrath was completely within his on Rank and Tenure immediately. Majors should legal rights. The students simply were extended no be allowed to present their recommendations to part in any decision-making. ' the four-man committee in just the manner the Th-e second-goal; the more important, department heads do. And their recommendations 
long-range idea, is to place students in influential positions on such committees as the Rank and Tenure and beyond that on other committees which determine academic and teacher policy. 
The conduct of the SMC students in investigating the cases of the non-renewed 
-contracts and in dealing with McGrath is to be lauded. Notre Dame would do well tt> emulate the attitud~s and procedures of the St. Mary's student body which showed a genuine concern for the future of their school. 
should be included in the committe~'s report to ~cGrath. We see no reason why this cannot be unplemented tomorrow. 
The young women of St. Mary's have been cruelly enlightened in the past few days. They have proven the~selves to be a. ~~ture group capable of acceptmg the responsibility of these committees. To include the students would qelp fulfill McGrath's purported id~al at St. Mary's. ~o do less would make commumty government a lie and McGrath a hypocrite. 

Number Three Against 
In the wake of President Hesburgh's momentous ultimatum to would-be demonstrators at Notre Dame he has received the critical acclaim of preyed-upon administrators, teachers, editors and many others-a huge potpourri of Americans tired of "bead-wearin', pot-smokin' hippies." 
One of his rewards has been an early morning appearance on the Today show at which time he brilliantly extemporized the goals and ideals upon which universities, in general, and Notre Dame, in particular, have been founded. He drew. the sympathy and admiration of millions of telehion viewers--a laudable talent few possess, but at which Father Hesburgh excels. 
No doubt he will be eulogized in the future as the university president to lead the way for other colleges to head off disruptive demonstrations and re-establish the university identity. His office, as duly reported over the state and national wires, has withstood a deluge of telegrams and letters commenting favorable on his courageous stand. In fact, only two of 269 messages have been adverse to his decision, 99.3 per · cent in favor. OBSERVER makes number three. 
We hasten to remind our readers that with Father Hesburgh's statement appears the old bugaboo of "paternalism," which was supposedly, or at least hopefully dismissed with the creation of the Student life Council. 
As Law Professor Edward Murphy correctly pointed out in a letter to this paper yesterday, there can be no question that the University president did indeed have the power to issue such 
a proclamation. And perhaps it would be difficult 
to argue that just such a statement was not 
needed, but neither of these observations are to 
the point. 

Supposedly the proclamation will protect the 
University community from unlawful disruptions 
of its appointed business. It was our impression 
that a university community comprised faculty, 
administration and students. Accordingly we feel 
the students should have participated in such a 
decision as Hesburgh's. The proper vehicle should 
have been the SLC. 
There is no reason Hesburgh could not have requested of that body a definitive statement on procedures against disruptive protests. He did make a perfunctory stop to inform the SLC of the content of his statement before publicly releasing it, but they were not invited to participate in its formulation. 
We should also like to emphasize that Hesburgh's directive should be aimed at disruptive, violent demonstrations and not merely non-violent demonstrations which are perhaps annoying. To stifle demonstrations because they are inconvenient or uncomfortable is to violate the principle of active dissent. We do not believ~ Hesburgh meant this and we hope it is not interpreted as a move to eliminate demonstrations entirely. Finally we are dismayed to see that in times of emergency the University president is afraid to ask for a decision from the body created to handle such situations. 

... I GUESS THE 
ONLY WAY LEFT 
IS l=-0 R VS 7n ~07tST M~~Tft ··A'IJD.-YOU GIRLS TO PROT~ST 
H!:SBURGH. 

11111111111111111111111111111111111.11111111111111111111111111111111 

Don Hynes 
"The Community" 
111111111111111111181111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
No one can j)Ossibly di~:a! n~e with: the goal of preserving the university as a center for tl1: free and open pursuit of learning. President Tle'>burgh, in his llktate to the Notre Dame community, used this luphemisll as a bas:s for his own cowardly submission to the forces of the dcllar and the status quo who wish to control this 
. university from witt.out. · 

The student com.nunity was completely ignored in the formation of Hesburgh's statement. All the administrative forces were in support of him, Hesburgh assmes us, but the administration is not a part of the university community, and should not have the final say on any university policy. The administration is in no way involved in the educational process. At best they are management and fiscal consultants for the true univerSity community, that is, faculty and students. · 
Hesburgh's letter clearly demonstrates his abysmal ignorance of, and lack of connection with the university community. In his statement he creates s rhetoric which intimates that the university is on the verge of chaos. This is a lie. Qe states that members of the university will be suspended from the community for "not understanding what this community is." Only a fool, not an educa or, could make this a policy in an educational institution. Hesburgh gives the power to decide on the will of the community to the Dean of Students, another administrator. The cigar smoking ex-shoe salesman, who has stumbled through and over-reacted to stiuation after situation, even to the point where he actually struck a student with his umbrella at a demonstration last year, this man is to decide on the fate of members of the community. 
Hesburgh, on page five of his letter, states that he has "studied at some length the new politics of confrontation." What follows this vanity iS a paraphra~il excerpt from an article which aepe~e_d in_!J.:te New York Time Magazine-of Sunday, December 29. 'Qlis again demonstrates Hesburgh's vicarious relationship with the university today.· He has no connection with the students, lilnited connection with the. faculty, is rarely present when ahy disputed occurrence takes place, and therefore can only gain his information from the mass media. And the most nauseating part of this is that Hesburgh had the audacity to pass off the insights, whether valid or not, as his own. 
What was made clear ~ that Hesburgh w,ill not tolerate interference nor violent interruption of university proceedings. How does he t.llen explain the actions of the administration in relation to the Pornograpjby conference. Because of the pressure from a small group from South Bend, outsiders to the community, the administration had ·the films· and the rest of the conference closed down. When a group of faculty and students decided to continue with the community function, the police entered the community, brutally assaulted members of the community, and seized community property. Hesburgh contends that the police acted without ad:ninistration compliance, but how does he explain the fact that the officers who made the seizure were entertained at the Faculty Club, prior to the bust, by Faccenda, Hesburgh's lieutenant. hesburgh is either a fool or a hypocrite. 
In his last issuance Hesburgh defended the N.arucki's, the mindless idiots who sell buttons inscribed with ballistic missiles and the words "drop it," and "up with NCAA." Hesbw;gh relishes in these sections 
. of the .community, in the irrelevance of the SLC, and the traditions of irttolerance and nillitarism that mark this culture. 1ust drop the bomb and keep going to the basket}?all games, boys, and everythiflg will be all right, or at least Narucki, Hesburgh and the corp of Corby Hall chrcnics would have us believe. 
If the last page of Hesburgh's current letter is examined, there will be found the catalyst for his dictate. From the alumni: "We urge you to clearly publicize consequences which shall be faced by all who violate the established policy," which is what the letter was all about. The fighting Irish green of the dollar bill has once againmotivated our cowering and hypocritical p,.,-•..aent. Hesburgh's statement of policy can only create the aJtatch}, mob tyran!ly, and imposition on this community from without, that he was supposedly trying to prevent. Without being melodramatic, I sincerely hope that this letter is his last from a position of authority to the university community, for the educational community here only suffers at the hands of the psychotic and self-indulgent celebates, and money grubbing trustees and alumni, who create the adlninistration policy. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21,1969 THE OBSERVER. 
PAGE5 



NO Sports: More athlete than student? 
by Tim O'M eilia 

Last in a five part series 
There are probably two great dangers in competing in intercollegiate athletics on the university level. These apply to football and basketball primarily at Notre Dame where virtually every member of the team is on an athletic grant-in-aid and large amounts of money are sunk into the sports. 
The lesser sports such as swimming, wrestling and golf are given few grant-in-aids because because they are neither as popular nor are they depended upon for money. Hockey is moving into the same sphere as the other two big-time sports now because it seems to be sufficiently popular. Ticket manager Robert Cahill has been slightly dis;.ppointed with the early turnouts for the hockey games but he expects it to establish itself shortly. 
At any rate when such a great premium is placed upon winning in football and basketball in order to attract customers to support the athletic program, the possibility of abuses creepmg m mcreases. 
In order to have excellent teams the finest coaches have to be hired, the best players recruited and a large amount of time spent practicing. The dangers are that an athlete will not get an education and that instead he will receive some sort of monetarv benefit from 
his participation. That second possibility seems to have been eliminated here except on me part or me alumni, who are almost impposible to check on. 
However the duty of education its athletes is the direct responsibility of the university. Executive vice president Rev. Edmund Joyce, CSC, also chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics, has said, "We try to keep on top of this as much as possible." In order to do this more thoroughly Mechanical Engineering Asst. Professor Michael DeCicco has been placed in charge of checking the athletes on grant-in-aids to make sure their academic records are in good shape. 
"Father Joyce called me into his office four and a half years ago and said, 'Mike, I want you to do me a favor and I won't take no for an answer.' I 
am  supposed  to  work  closely  with  the  coaches  
ad missions  office  and  the  college  deans  and  
professors."  

DeCicco explained the . workings of his office. "Nobody tells the admissions office who they will or will not accept but anyway I receive a list of the student-athletes accepted about July 1." DeCicco goes over the academic profiles of the 35-40 scholarship athletes with Dean of the Freshman Year William Burke. Together they review the high school backgrounds of the athletes, what they may be lacking and attempt to set up some sort of program that the athlete will be able to fulfill. 
During the first week of school the first year athletes on grants meet with DeCicco, Joyce and pther people. "Father Joyce makes it very clear to them. He tells them point blank that if they can't 
Tom Ellrbar 
Dear Mom, I guess it has been 
a while since my last letter-and it must be kind of difficult when Aunt Mini or Grandpa call and ask how I'm doing and what's my opinion about all the campus upheavals and guys with four-inch sideburns and stuff. And you have to give tht>m that 


"Tommy's doing 
real fine" routine. 

Weill have been doing a lot of thinking lately (you, of all people may find th~t hard to believe). Anyway -here goes. First of all, let me fill you in on a few of the local issues currently burning on campus, taking up from where my last real letter left off. Homecoming was really tremendous ( a little joke, Mom, I'm sure I've written you since then, at least once.) 
I suppose you're wondering about my reaction to that whole pornographys affair, with the police, and mace, and national headlines and everything. Well, I guess for some, the exhibits were dirty. I reach their academic commitments, for any reason, 
then they will have to drop the sport." The gr~nts arP. 
not revoked in such cases however. Here the 
Developmental Reading Program and the special 
tutoring program for athletes is explained. 
The study hall or tutoring program is primarily for 
classes that present a problem for freshmen, calculus, 
English and science courses. Most of the athletes are 
obliged to attend the three nights a week sessions for 
two hours a night. The ante is upped to five nights a 
week before exams. Graduate students and professors 
are paid to tutor. 
One of the methods DeCicco uses to check up on 
the athletes on grants is q questionnaire mailed to 
each athlete's professors. Four questions are 
included: approximate grade at mid-semester, 
attendance, tutoring question and comments by the 
teacher. 
Although many of the reports are virtually useless, 
some of them are genuinely helpful in assessing an 
athlete's attitude and performance. After viewing 
several of the academic files it becomes obvious that 
the professors pull no punches. 
The athletic department is proud .of the record 
established by its athletes. In the past three years 
only one scholarship athlete has failed to graduate, 
and there are 75 to 80 graduates per year. About 20 
football players from the 1967 team had at least a 
3.0. From tackle to tackle this past year's first team offensive line had a university average of about 3.4, 
Since the NCAA has been hading out scholarships to deserving graduating student-athletes only one school in the nation has had more winners-Yale, and they have only one more. Joyce said, "We are very jealous and zealous about the academic program of the athletes. We ran a survey about l 0 or 12 years ago among our graduate athletes which was published in Sports Illustrated and what they did was remarkable. And my experience has been that since then the kids are of an even higher caliber." 
DeCicco strives to make sure that "the eligibility for an athlete coincides with that for his degree. We don't want boys to be 12 hours short after their eligibility has run out. Besides that we have to pay for their grant if they come back to complete their degree." 
To make it a bit easier on the athletes in season many of them attend summer school in order to b~ three or six credits ahead going into the season so that they may carry only 12 hours and still be ahead of the game. All the colleges permit the athletes to do this provided that they will still be even with their class except for the business school, which DeCicco cannot understand. While two summers ago 10 athletes attended summer sessions here this year DeCicco expects about 50. 
Last year the average of the scholarship athletes was slightly higher than that of the student body and the previous year trailed by only 0.002. DeCicco 
admits that statistics mean little. Most of the athletes 
Dear Mom 

mean that's only if you look at them in a certain way. Most of us students here, or at least us mature students, however, sort of forgot what we were looking at, and only saw art -you know, just an aesthetic-type experience. Boy! what an experience! Sorry, you know I'm only kidding Mom. But you have to have confidence in me, remember I took an Art History course freshman year. Maybe 
every cop should too. 
Well anyway, Hesburgh (yes, I know how much you think he's a great man and how I'll think much more highly of him I 0 years from now) came out with a letter laying -down a hard line against all forms of protest and dissent. I really get a kick out of these emergency letters he sends us on breaks from the SUMMA campaign, to let us know he's still on top of things. I usually agree with him and the radicals. 
I also received a letter, and a package from Aunt Mini, who thinks the influences of higher education may be bringing me over to the left. It seems she was really worried about me, and stayed up late through the wee hours one morning to tell me what was on her mind. The package believe it or not, contained several religious articles and a copy of her "Last Will and Testament." Maybe it's because she's my Godmother that she feels obligated to send me stuff like that. But it was rather embarrasing. Not that I was expecting Playboy. Mini even footnoted her message with supporting statements of moral concern by Uncle Charlie, Cousin Louie, and several interested neighbors from our local community. 
Oh yes, I' almost forgot, we are allowed to cheat now, on tests, on papers, anything. The whole honor concept, which impressed you so much during freshman orientation, has been abolished. As a matter of fact, the guy sitting next to me right now in the study lounge is presently copying this letter to send home to his mother. Also hopefully my grades will be zooming up this semester. 
And I think you'd really enjoy the story of our campus judicial board which just knocked off its first big case, and probably itself, for the remainder of the year. Mom, this whole farce was more melodramatic than those ridiculous soap-operas you sit through every afternoon since you tucked us kids away in school. All this legal rhetoric and courtroom drama which somehow ended in the suspension of one student for one week, and of common sense for at least three months. 
Since you'v always been disturbed with my shyness, it should warm your heart to 
are liberal arts majors, although there are a few 
notable exceptions. 
DeCicco said, "We have our black sheep, though. 
We just have to keep on top of them all the time. I 
know coaches have taken players to ~lass just to make 
sure they got there.'' 
Joyce concurred, "Sometimes we get a boy who 
was a big star in high school and was coddled 
resulting in his having a deficient background. The 
first semester he gets the book thrown at him. Only 
through sheer determination do some of them get 
through the freshman year." 
The subject of "jock" courses was also discussed. 
One prominently mentioned was baseball coach Jake 
Kline's freshman math course. Kline's students in 
fact, attend class four hours a week for three credits. 
There are several classes in both freshman English and 
math which are for students have failed to achieve a 
540 on their college boards. Kline's is one of those. A 
student must have less than that total to be in the 
course; there are no exceptions. 
English Professor Frank O'Malley's course was also 
mentioned. O'Malley has a penchant for giving A's 
and B's. DeCicco said the only time an athlete can 
take that course is in his final semester. 
DeCicco does not set up schedules for any of the athletes. According to him, they register with their deans as any other student. "I cannot say in conscience that I do not exercise any influence, but the influence I have is very minimal." Final decisions are left up to professors and deans, concerning entrance into classes. 
There has. been speculation that some "jocks" make the grades without doing the work involved. "I think it works both ways," DeCicco said. In other words, for every Father Brennan who likes athletes there are as many who don't. DeCicco related the story of Terry Hanratty during his sophomore year. 
Following the Purdue game there were write-ups in both Time and Sports 1/lustrated. One of them said that Penn State's Joe Paterno wanted Hanratty but he couldn't meet the entrance requirements. Consequently one of Hanratty's teachers said that anyone in that situation couldn't pass his course. Hanratty was the only one to fail. The reason was that he cut 10 classes. They happened to be football Saturdays for which the players receive cancelled cuts. It made no difference. 
No matter what the stituation is here at Notre Dame, whether she cuts corners or not, the question will always be there. As long as intercollegiate athletics involves such huge amounts of money and puts such a premium on winning there will always be some question whether there is reason for question of not. 

hear that I'm dating a St. Mary's girl, although our relationship is strictly platonic (play for me and tonic for her). A little comic relief, Mom, you see I 
haven't lost my old wit. 
Also, you might be interested in my analysis of the political intrigues now raging here. As it stands, by my count, there is a three-way race for Student Body President and I think you would like all of the candidates. Mike Kendall, however, is hung up on the Kennedy's; Phil McKenna looks like he's hung over; and John Mroz, if its at all possible, will probably hang himself. (No Mom, I haven't thrown my hat in the ring yet, you have to be politically discreet about these things.) 
In regards to your question about what the SLC actually is, I too am awaiting an answer. 
Well, Mom, until next Homecoming .. Oh Yes, if Aunt Mini or Grandpa call, tell them that "Tommy's doing real fine." 
Devotedly in Notre Dame, Tommy 
PS -For some strange reason, my room-mate keeps avoiding me. 
PPS -Could you please send up my two laundry bags which I left home over the Christmas vacation? 
PAGE 6 

THE OBSERVER FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 19691 
This year's Senior Fellow 




Overwhelming response to McCarthy 
The Senior Fellow program will shortly be upon us. Chairman Chuck Sheedy and his co-workers Mike Keefer, Craig Fenech, Thomas Alter, and Bill Devereux are very optimistic about the outcome of the seminar, in which Eugene McCarthy will be the guest. As Sheedy said, "The response has been overwhelming. I was rather startled at the sincere interest of the class." 
Senator McCarthy will arrive in South Bend before noon on Wednesday, March 5th. Shortly thereafter, he ewill attend a 1 uncheon with SBP Richard Rossie, the president of the senior class, Sheedy, an official from the Administration, and approximately 15 Seniors chosen by lottery from those who signed up for the program. Sheedy felt that "rather than have a~ many Seniors as possible at the hmcheon, it would be better to have a more limited 
W.C. FIELDS Charlie Chaplin 
FILMS 
8!00 pm Friday, Feb 21 Carroll Hall SMC Saturday, Feb 22 $1.00 Admission 
number and have them get something out of it." W e d n e s d a Y aft ern ° 0 n McCarthy will flll in for facultymembers at their invitation. The 
times for the seminars will be 
2:10 and 4: 10. These will be in regularly scheduled classess which are composed mainly of 
seniors and have been chosen from the College of Business and the College of Arts and Letters curriculum. The Senator will 
make a few opening remarks and then proceed to a question and answer period. 
Fifteen additional seniors, again chosen by lottery' will join McCarthv for dinner in the Director room above the South Dining Hall. That night 
McCarthy, members of the faculty, and 75 members of the class of '69 will attend a 
reception at the Alumni Club. In addition to the opportunity afforded here to meet McCarthy, seniors will also be able to meet 


UNITED STATES AIR FORCE Box A, Dept. scP 92 Randolph Air Force Base, Texas 78148 
NAME AGE 
PlEASE PRINT 
COllEGE 

GRADUATION DATE PHONE 
ADDRESS 

CITY STATE ZIP 
1 It's no disgrace.
1 Even Einstein couldn't make up his mind for quite awhile.
I
1 Van Gogh took time to get on the track. 

!,;·"1~7.~~:~,: ";,:::::;:~d.~:~·=~~::,::,::::~~ :::~;~::
0 

I what to do with your future ... chin up.I You can go to Officer Training School. Become an officer. Get 
members of the faculty. 

Thursday, · March 6th, there will be two more seminars, one will be on United States foreign 
policy and open to 45 persons
selected by the lottery. The second seminar of the day will be held (tentatively) in the afternoon. This section will again be a regular class wherein the professor will give the floor 
to Senator McCarthy. Cancelled cuts will be provided by all those who require them. 
The Senior Fellow program will culminate with the presentation of the Senior Fellow Award at Stepan Center the night of March 6th, 8:00PM. This ceremony is open to the entire student body and to the public. 
Sheedy notes that there will be a booklet sent to all members of the class of 69' explaining the program. Complimentary copies of McCarthy's latest Book "THE LIMITS OF POWER" will be distributed to those who are sleeted by the lottery to attend one or more of th Senior Fellow functions. "Hopefully they will read it and question Senator McCarthy on its contents", remarked Sheedy. There will 

also be copies of McCarthy's poetry anthology "AND TIME BEGAN". 
When questioned on coverage by the news media, Sheedy responded, "overall coverage by newspapers and news magazines such as Time and Newsweek is encourages. Newsmen will not be allowed in the seminars as it might inhibit the exchange between our Fellow and the students. Besides, a public press conference will be held around 
3:00 March 6th, at The Center for Continuing Education". 
The purpose of the Senior Fellow program is perhaps best expressed by Senator McCarthy: "University students have the obligation, of course, to study and comprehend as far as possible the intellectual heritage of the past. They also must rerpond to the ideas and to the social and political events of the present: to the great problems of war and peace, and such 
•lomestic issues as economic policy, civil rights and the urban crisis. Their very special concern must be the direction of American life at home and American influence in the world." 

January grants totaling $900,000 Scheduled for research areas 
A total of $898,172 was re~ ceived by the University of Notre Dame in January for re­search, equipment, and educa­tional programs according to a report issued today by Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, vice president for research and sponsored programs. 
Included in the total was $373,500 from the Office of Education for National Defense Education Act graduate fellowships and $3~,840 from the National Science Foundation (NSF) to support undergraduate research in biology, physics, mechanical engineering, civil engineering, chemistry, and giology. The largest research grant was $310,000 from NSF 
for nuclear structure research by the Notre Dame nuclear physics team of Drs. Cornelius P. Browne, Paul R. Chagnon, Sperry E. Darden, Walter C. Miller, and A. Andre Rollefson. 
PAGE 7

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21,1969 
THE OBSERVER. 



New biology hall 



The Moil·················
Construction soon 
Father Jerome J. Wilson, Vice 

President for Business Affairs, 
stated Tuesday that the 
university has just received a 
federal grant of $1,800,000 to 
be used for the construction of a 
new biology building. The cost 
of this building, which will be 
located between the Computing 
Center and the Lobund Research 
Laboratory, will be about 
$4,627,000. 
The estimated start of construction is sometime in the month of May. Since the university accepted a grant from the government, it must wait for the government's permission to allow contractors to place bids. It will be ten weeks before this consent is given because the government must first give their permission to many other schools and universities which have also accepted government 
Renovation 
grants. 

The federal grant came from two sources. The Indiana State Commission awarded the university $600,000 from their federal government fund and the National Science Foundation, $1,200,000. The remaining $2,827,000 will come from private donations and funds which have been put aside for this project. 
Before the university officials· received the grant, they had to assure government representatives that they either had or would have the $4,627,000 for the construction of the biology building. This assurance was necessary because of the stiff competition for gov­ernment building grants. 
Besides having the necessary amount of money, the university also· had to have line drawings 

of church 
Proceeding as planned 
The renovation of Sacred Heart Church, begun three and one half years ago and costing approximately $200,000, is proceeding at full speed. 
The project is contracted by Conrad Schmitt Studios of Milwaukee and is under the direction of a dozen committee members drawn from the campus. The committee includes Father Carl Hager of the Music Dept., Frank Montana of the Architecture Department, and Brother James Dorson, sacristan of Sacred Heart Church. 
Brother Dorson pointed out that the renovation is "not a construction project, but is trying to correct physical aspects of the building, striving for a more vibrant liturgy while keeping in mind the spirit of a Gothic Church." 
NJ!w tuckwork has been finished, the pews have all been 
removed, and the altar platform 
.-------------------------j is being extended. An acoustical 
RIVER PARK 
MISHAWAKA AVE, at 30th indoor-outdoor carpet, is going 
carpet, similar to an 
PHONE 288-8488 to be laid. A new public address system that adjusts 
u****" "FASCINATIN&!" 
automatically to the loudne~s of 
MICHIANA'S 
PEPPER'S IMPORTED 

CARS INC. '67Austin Healy Sprite,1 owner $1795 '68 Triumph TR-250, Michlen-x tires luggage I'IICk, 1 owner ............. $2895 
STUDENT SPECIAL '65 Volkswagon 1500-S, 1600 cc Porsche engine. am/fm, Super Bugl .......•...••...... $862 
'63 Porsche Super 90 Coupe-127h.p. Sharplll.•••••..•...•...• $2495 
'69 Austin American; delivered brand 
new, automatic transmission, the most advanced design in today's automotive world.•••••••• $1995 
See Jaguar George at 
Sports Car Capitol 3105 W. Sample St. South Bend, Ind. 
289-7788 

lUOOWC STEVE MCQUEEN 
RICHARD AHEIBOROU&H RICHARD CREIIA CAIDICE BER&EIMARAYAT ANORIANE 
Fri 5:15 8:25 Sat & Sun 2:00 5:15 8:25 Mon-Thurs 7:45 
CEL.L.AR 
Friday 8-2 Brand X 
the speaker's voice and avoids feedback is planned. A new style of pews and 400 removeable chairs are planned in order to avoid the regimented aislesthat had been at Sacred Heart. Also, the wainscot, the wooded paneling on the bottom four feet of the wall, is being refinished. 
Although the spired, gilded altar will remain, a new side altar is being built. Daily masses will be heard at the rear altar after the renovation of the 98 year old church is complete. 
Father Hesburgh's plans for a new church to be built near the high rise dorms have been scrapped. There was a large 
need for a new church. Fr. Jerome Wilson, Vice-President in charge of business affairs, ~id the reason this new church cannot be built is "that there just is no money." 
A word of praise 
Editor: 
Since it seems unlikely that Peter Michelson and John Matthias are going to receive official praise from the University, I would like to express at least personal appreciation for their presence during the weekend of February 
7. Having watched Michelson and Matthias in action on Saturday and Sunday, February 8 and 9, I am convinced that these two men were crucially instrumental in holding Notre Dame together at that time. Their patience, sympathetic imagination, and, above all, trustworthiness helped to moderate the intense and complex feelings of students who had been associated with the Conference on Pornography and Censorship. Although a simple and brutal outbreak of those feelings might have been understandable and even warranted, the effects would have been incalculable damaging to the life of the campus. 
Peter Michelson and John Matthias recognized the situation and worked with the students to improvise some justice and order ~ut of recalcitrant material. By contrast the Administration did and said nothing sensible-though it issued statements in a variety of tongues. A dingy pair of bigots from the West Coast, a county prosecutor on the make, and a seedy militia had managed to "bust" Notre Dame. The whole performance was absolutely 
· 

second-rate. Nevertheless, for 
r e p r e s e n t~ t i v e s o f t h e Administration it was apparently not a case of being stupified by the mediocrity of the challenge but rather, with instinctive aptitude, of embracing it. 
Instead of deserting reality and shuffling away into a bogus 
.academic heaven of forms, 
Michelson and Matthias 
confronted a serim•· and 
immediate university problem:· Their activities over that weekend showed courage, generosity, and candor. Such human values have been throttled from the halls of the esta\,lishment. And that is why the establishm·ent is an echoing chamber to so many people. 
Yours very truly, 
Joseph M. Duffy 
Patterns of. protest 
Editor: 

I have usually found the patterns of protest at this University to be either tedious or unaesthetic. Protesting Dow president D_o~n's presence during a chill, drizzling Autumn afternoon, and sleeping upon the smooth marble coldness of the Ad building have done their share tn cool my anarchistic fervor. The singing, arms linked, of "We Shall Overcome" after the second-night mass during the Dow-CIA sleep-in stretched seven stanzas past my emotional 
tolerance  and  seemed  an  
inapropriate  appropriation  of  
outdated  material  of  

questionable musical value. However, you may note with sardonic sympathy, the recent 
humorous interpretations of the 
student manual set forth in 
Father Hesburgh's public 
statement have pricked my 
conscience and reminded me 
that "Freedom Isn't Free." 
have gotten a fine education 
from this university, and have 
received what amounts to loving 
care from several members of 
the faculty during my years at 
Notre Dame. I have also dropped 
out for two semesters and been 
suspended for one (possession of 
alcohol on campus-Spring 
1965). I won't mind leaving 
again. 
Charles B. Wordell 
Off-Campus 

Peace Corps to Recruit here 
There will be a yrecruiting team from the Peace Corps on campus February 24-28, 1969. They will have a booth in the concourse of the Memorial Library. The recruiting team IS composed of returned Peace Corps Volunteers. 
During their visit the recruit­ing team will visit classes, help with Peace Corps Applications, distribute illustrative materials, administer the Peace Corps test and show films. They also hope to have a conference for stu­dents who have already applied and would like to know the status of their applications. 
JAYS ~OUNGE on US 31 just across the border in Michigan, serving your favorite beers and liquors ­seven days a week. 
amountofdi~greementoverther-----------------~----------------------------------~------------------------~ 






Did Y-OU like beer the first time you tasted it? 
A lot of people say no. They say beer is one of those good things you cultivate a taste for . . like beer is Beechwood Aged; it's a costly way to brew beer, and it takes more time. But it 
olives, or scotch, or 
works.) kumquats. So whether you're 
Maybe. But we one of the few who think it makes a dif­has never tried beer, ference which brand of or a beer drin·ker who beer we're talking suddenly feels the about. urge to find out why 
We think Budweiser so many people enjoy 
is an exception to this "you've gotta get used to it" rule. It's
.. 

so smooth. (You see, no other Budweiser, we think you'll like it. 
From the very first taste. 
Saturday 8-2 AMUSEMENT COMPANY 
Budweise&is the King ofBeerse 
$.50  (But you know that.)  
Holy Cross Hall  
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS • NEWARK • LOS ANGELES • TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS  


Johnny Dee, an instructing, nail-biting, cringing, pensive and sometimes mesmerized coach, produced Notre Dame's 900th win last night. 
Everything is coming up Violets 
IQ-7 lead. Murphy caught the Dame shot 17-35-.486. the past Olympics, paced NYU performances under their belts,Last night was fun night in Violets with a jumper at 16-15, During the second half, the and game scorers with 27 points. the Irish return home Tuesdaythe Fun City for Notre Dame's 
Fighting Irish. They ran but Miller scored to regain the Irish put the clamps on Miller A binge directed by Whitmore night clash against Valparaiso. In roughshod over New York lead. and 6'-6" center Jim Signorile, pushed the advantage to 86-65 the last three games, ND has Notre Dame took over for while Arnzen pounded the with 6:20 left. The Irish averaged I 00 points per game.
University 98-88 in Madison Square Garden to bring their good at 29-27 as Arnzen scored boards. Three buckets by ultimately led by as much as 23, Whitmore and Carr have led the on a pass from Carr with slightly Meehan propelled ND out at a but Coach John Dee substituted attack with 78 points apiece.
record to 18-5. The victory was 
more than 7:00 left. The final 6Q-49 margin and Arnzen made The Irish figure to continue their 
.... the 900th in Notre Dame's in the final moments. The career, and gave the Irish a clear few minutes of the half were it 65-5I at 12: I 0. Violets put on a late surge which offensive show against Valpo, 
spent shooting fouls, with the Some fine work by Porrato cut the gap to 97-88 before John but must tangle with toughshor at the NCAA Tournament. 
Irish pulling ahead 47-41. Carr kept the Violets in reach. Pleick free throw molded the "giant-killer" St. John's onOnly nine other teams can boast 
paced the attack with 15 points Porrato, who played for the final margin. March l, a game already sold outmore roundball wins. 
Puerto Rico National team in in New York. 
Keys to the Irish success for and Whitmore added II. Notre WHh three impressive the third straight game was shooting, as ND approached 50% from the floor and 80% from the 
Ryun appearance heads sports card
line. Austin Carr brought a bag-full of moves to the big city and delighted a crowd of 6,249 Notre Dame's Athletic and Michigan, DePaul, Drake, Big Ten. Last year the Badgers season record fell to five wins with his 25 hard-earned points. Convocation Center will be the Kansas, Kent State, Kentucky halted Notre Dame's 31-meet versus three losses. He fouled out late in the game scene of the 43rd annual Central State, Loyola, Marquette, Notre winning streak with a I4-l3 Anything but delighted about 
and received a standing ovation. Collegiate Conference indoor Dame, Southern Illinois, Toledo, victory. facing the pair of Big Ten foes in 
Bob Whitmore added 24 track and field championships Wayne State, and Western Indiana has yet to defeat the back-to-back encounters, Coach markers for the Irish as he Friday and Saturday. Michigan. Irish fencers in 16 tries while Stark has also been less than appeared in his 81 st consecutive Fifteen teams are entered Notre Dame posted wins of 22-5 pleased with his team's game, tying a team record. Bob including favored Kansas with its over Vanderbilt and 16-II over performance. "Against Central Arnzen went over the 1600 great middle distance runner Jim Fencing Illinois last year. Michigan we didn't even look career point mark with his 20 Ryun headlining the DeCicco's team returns to good in the events we did points and Dwight Murphy had 325-participant field. Notre Dame for a March I meet Swimming manage to win," commented 
12. Jack Meehan quarterbacked The J ayhawks announced with Tennessee. Stark. "The four remaining another terrific game and came today that Ryun, their world Notre Dame's wrestling squad Floundering in the midst of dual-meets on our schedule up with 11 points, most of them record holder at the 880, 1500 plays host to a strong Marquette three consecutive losses, Notre against Purdue, Northwestern, in crucial situations. meters and mile distances, ~ill team Friday at 7:00 p.m. in the Dame's swimming team will Cincinnati, and Ohio University 
The Irish were actually in go in the two-mile only for the Athletic and Convocation attempt to assauge its wounded will make it especially tough to 
difficulty only in the first half. Centrals. Center. The meet is open to the pride with the likes of generate the needed impetus we NYU's fine pair of guards, Jim Ryun made his second start of public with no admission charge. Northwestern and Purdue. On need to carry us through the Miller and Adolfo Porrato, split the season in the two-mile last Coach Mike DeCicco's Notre Saturday, the Irish will confront season." 
the first ten Violet points for a weekend against Southern the Wildcats of Northwestern at
Dame fencing team takes a 12-1 Illinois and Oklahoma State but record on the read this weekend 2:00 p.m. in the Rockne dropped out with five laps to go meeting Indiana at Bloomington Memorial Pool and on Monday Wrestling
Rochester coach 

because of a troublesome left Friday and Illinois, Wisconsin (Feb. 24) the traveling Coach Tom Fallon's Irish will 
ROCHESTER, N.Y. foot. and Vanderbilt at Urbana, Boilermakers will be entertained take a 5-2-l record into the (UPI)-Peter "Pat" Stark, who The two-mile will go off at Illinois Saturday. at 4: p.m. meet. set three passing records while a 2:45 p.m. Saturday. Ryun's The Irish were knocked from Head coach Dennis Stark and Last year's Wisconsin AAU quarterback at Syracuse, will main opposition will come from the unbeaten ranks last Saturday his school of Irish swimmers champions, the Warriors have 
take over as football coach at Mike Ryan of Air by Ohio State by a 15-12 netted their first five opponents fallen this year to a 3-6 record the University of Rochester. Force, current NCAA cross margin. when the season began but since due to injuries and academic 
The 39 year old offensive country champion, and Oscar Illinois and Wisconsin will have been drubbed by Kent problems. backfield coach for Harvard was Moore of Air Force, current confront the Irish with two of State, Western Michigan and Featured Friday is the officially named coach yesterday CCC record holder in this event. the better fencing teams in the Central Michigan (68-45) as their 130-pound match in which at a news conference. Coach Bob Timmons' team 
Marquette's Rick Paulson will Stark succeeds Don Smith, also boasts the best collegiate meet Notre Dame co-captain


ABA taps Arnie, Whit
who was relieved of his coaching three-man shot throwing team in Keith Giron (Westminister,duties at the end of last season. the :,.r.s. Karl Salb, the Colo.). Paulson was second in 
275-pound ring leader of the The Oakland, Calif., Tribune on the second rouncl going to 
the Wheaton Invitational, while 

shot putting trio, boomed and the St. Paul, Minn., Pioneer the Minnesota Pipers. Whnnn.~.t~ 
Giron was eliminated in the 

throws of 65-514 and 64-1 OY2 last Press reported that the American was the 18th. player picked by
NCAA race semi-final round of the same 
week. Basketball Association the ABA, just ahead of 
tournament.

The race for NCAA Finals in the 35-pound weight conducted a secret telephone Creighton's Bob Portman, who Despite what their recordat-large berths was clarified throw, high jump and triple draft last Saturday. Lew went to Denver, and just behind might say, the Warriors will be
jump will be held Friday Alcindor of UCLA was the Purdue's Herman Gilliam, who
somewhat the past two 
no easy touch for the Irisfl. Both

beginning at 6:15p.m. number-one draft pick of the went to Kentucky.
nights. Dayton ( 17-6) was teams were at the Wheaton
Qualifying heats in most of the ABA, going to the New York
blasted 96-60 by Cincinnati Some other first round Tournament last week, Notre
running events will also be held Nets in the first round. The choices were Neal Walk of Dame coming awayWednesday and Marquette Friday evening. The session is report also stated that Alcindor Florida (Houston), Rusty Clark empty-handed and Marquette,( 19-4) dumped Denver open to the public at no was picked by the Milwaukee of North Carolina (New taking third place though
admission charge. Bucks of the NBA in a secret
91-7 5 last night. Notre Orleans), Dave Schoiz of Illinois without an individual champion. 
Admission for the Saturday telephone draft held last month. 
Dame's victory set the Irish (Kentucky), Bill Bunting of
session starting at I2:30 p.m. is The St. Paul Pioneer Press also After 13 meetings, the Irish 
mark at 18-5. Dayton plays North Carolina (Miami), and
$2.00 for adults and $.50 for disclosed the results of the first and the Warriors are even at 
Larry Cannon of LaSalle (also to
Chattanooga Saturday and children. two rounds of the ABA draft. 6-6-1, Marquette winning the 
Miami, which had two first
Notre Dame entertains Alex Wilson's Notre Dame Bob Arnzen, Notre Dame last three out of four. 
round picks). 
team, led by sprinter Bill Hurd forward, was the first player
Valparaiso Tuesday. 
and an impressive two-mile relay picked in the second round of The report received a "No
Marquette does not play Hockey
team, is the defending champion the ABA draft, also going to the comment'? from N.Y. Nets
again before the bids are 
and as won the team title 23 N.Y. Nets. Arnzen was the 12th. owner Arthur Brown and from The Irish icers, carrying a announced, at 9:30 a.m. of 42 runnings. player selected by the ABA. ABA commissioner George I4-7-3 record, face Purdue's local time Tuesday. Teams entered are: Air Force, Bob Whitmore, Notre Dame Mikan. Officially, no date has hockey club at 5:30 p.m. 
Bowling Green, Central center-forward, was also picked yet been set for the ABA draft. Sun'day in Indianapolis. 




