THE \VORLD TODAY 
E 

"Human torch number 2" In Prauge 
PRAGUE (UPI) A Czech youth, declaring himself "Human 

OBSERVER
Torch No. 2, burned himself to death yesterday for political reasons 
Sert~i"' tit~ Notr~ Drlme 111t11 St. Mltr; ~ Collqe Community 
on the day Czechoslovakia observed its 21st year of Communist rule. Witnesses to the burning said Jan Zajic, about I 8 or 19 years old 
VOL. Ill, NO. 88

set fire to himself in a passageway leading from Wenceslas Square: WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1969 
not far hom where~udentJan Pa~chset himselfaflame~st month.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
The victim left a suicide note which said he was "Human Torch No. 2" who died "for the same political reasons as Jan Palach," who pushed the nation into crisis by burning himself to death Jan. 16 in 
Car stolen· others damaged
protest of the Russian occupation. 
' 

Dow protest, arrests, at Northwestern by Dan Koehler In regard to the security cash". Pears mentioned that the measures being taken, Pears South Bend Police Department
Last night one car was stolen

EVANSTON, III. (UPI) -A group of students picketed the stated that "you can't hire had been notified of vandalism
from the Senior parking lot and

pla~ement center at Northwestern University yesterday in protest enough help to put men in the but, as of yet, no arrests had
several others were heavily van­

agamst the presence of a recruiter from the Dow Chemical Co. 
lots". Pears said the current been made.
make~ of nap~lm for usc in Vietnam. Six studcts were arrested fo; dalized, apparently right under security force entails one man This is not the first outbreak·
the noses of the campus security

blockmg trafftc on busy Sheridan Road and charged with disorderly of theft and vandalism on theguards.
conduct. 
campus. On Feb. 20, Father The Dow interviews were temporarily halted. Sergio Bendixen, an off­Sanction Lentine reported his

campus junior, reported this
The pic~eting drew counter-demonstrators and a large number of car stolen from the parking lot
morning that his red '62 Chevy

onlookers. fhe total crowd was estimated at about 450 persons. 
of the Athletic and Convocation
station wagon was missing from
About ISO protesters abandoned their picketing after the arrests Center. Prior to that, senior Tim the car,

and gathered for a rally in Scott Hall, about a block down the street lot. The however, was Schroeph!.!r's car was ransacked
recovered late this afternoon by

from tl_•c frame house housing the University Placement Center. A and approximately $800 worth
the South Bend Police Dept. on

dclegatt_on of I 0 or 15 students was dispatched from the rally to of damages done, with thieves
the southern outskirt of the

meet w1th Roland J. Hinz, vice president for student affairs and dean taking his complete sterio tapecampus.
of students. 
system, tachometer, AM-FM
Senior Charles Johnson 
radio and mutilating the entire

••clay Bertrand" a farce-Andrews reported today that approxi­
back seating area of the car.
mately $500 worth of parts had

NEW ORLEANS (UPI) -Attorney Dean Andrews testified 
And, 2 years ago, University
been stripped from his car.

yesterday he himself, and not the mysterious "Clay Bertrand " came President Theodore liesburgh's
Johnson said that thieves had 

up with the idea of defending Lee Harvey Oswald follow'ing the ARTHUR J. PEARS car battery was stolen.
simply jacked up his car and

assassination of President John F. Kennedy. patrolling the parking lots In response to this influx of 
removed the four wide-oval tires

Andrews said "Bertrand," was not Clay L. Shaw on trial for "about every hour", one man at vandalixm, two seniors whose 
complete with their expensiv~

conspiring to kill Kennedy. Andrews said he had been :arrying on "a each security checkpoint, one cars were pilfered, Charles
mag wheels. 

farce" for years. man stationed at the security Johnson and Mark Lindcnmeyer,
In addition, two wheels were

"Clay Bertrand was a figment of my imagination," said Andrews office desk and on~ man in each announced plans to initiate a
also stolen from a third car and

who is appealing a perjury conviction that grew out of the Sh~~ of the two mobile units. student patrol force of these
several cases of malicious 

case. Summing up the situation parking lots, "in an effort to
destruction such as car roofs 

Pears said that "the pattern i~ obtain some effective action in
being slashed, were reported.

N lxon well received In London running, apparently, true to controlling this looting". Those
Arthur Pears, University 

form. The thieves will probably concerned can contact bothLONDON (UPI)-President Nixon lunched with Queen Elizabeth Security Director, verified these either convert the stolen pro­Johnson and Lindenmeyer byyesterday, sipped tea with a "cross section" of Britons, heard reports and said that the perty to their own use or to calling 8338.
himself praised during an unprecedented visit to Parliament, and thievery probably occurred discussed far-ranging world problems with Prime Minister Harold around 8:30 last night. Pears also added that such thievery is
Wilson. Smiling and unruffled through the gruelling day, Nixon threw his "quite common" and that park­

G P gets green light;
security guard and London bobbies into confusion several times by ing in the lots has always been stepping into crowds to shake hands and chat with individual "a calculated risk". Britons. 

Plans to be finalized
Plans for a big hostile demonstration by a "Hot Reception for 

Co-ed bill 
Nixon Committee" flopped miserably. Only a couple of dozen ments. Folks felt that there
Notre Dame will make its first 

long-haired youths turned out to shout, "Down with Nixon" and Stay Senators Mike Kendall would be no problem "because
move into the world of "big­

toss two rotten apples in the direction of his passing limousine. They and Steve Ahern, and Lyons Hall of the enthusiastic response by
time" racing this May with the

Senator John Koch will
missed their mark by far. team captains and hall presi­introduce a co-ed bill to the introduction of the first annual 
Notre Dame Grand Prix. Bob dents. They have shown a lot of Student Senate at Thursday
Eisenhower recovery ••remarkable" Folks, Chairman of this Student enthusiasm and I don't antici­
night's meeting. The purpose of 
.Union pmject, announced yes-· pate this attitude to change." HeWASIIINGTON (UPI) Former President Dwight D. Eisenhower 
the bill is to bring about 
also stated that "the Studentterday that the major obstaclesis showing progress "little short of remarkable" in his recovery Jess 

implementation of co-education 
Union Hoard has been instru­to holding the race have beenthan two days after major abdominal surgery, his doctors reported 

at Notre Dame at the earliest 
mental in bringing about thiscleared up and that plans will beyesterday. 

possible date. The bill also calls 
Grand Prix as has Fr. McCar­finalized this week. 

Wa_ltc~ Reed Army Medical Center said the 78 year old general for the solidification of student ragher. Without their co-oper­Folks stated that "the main was stppmg tea and conversing for brief periods in his hospital suite. body and student government ation the program would havequestion was whether or not the
"His morale is excellent," a midmorning bulletin said. opinion and action on this fallen through."
Student Government fund couldScar tissue resulting from a 1966 gall bladder operation or a 1923 subject. 

Time trials on May I 0 willafford to lend the halls andappendectomy had caused a blockage in Eisenhower's lower The three Senators said that organizations the money or half determine starting positions; and in~estine which would have been fatal if not removed, his doctors there is a brief in support of the the money for the carts." It was the actual Grand Prix race will satd. bill now in the writing that will decided last week that the fund be held May 17. The Grand Prix !lis heart, blood pressure, pulse and breathing remain stable the be presented to the Senate at the would be able to lend all the will be followed by a concert hospital reported. ' meeting Thursday night. 

money needed for the carting that night where awards will be 
When asked to comment on 
presented to the winning teams.
teams.

thetr reasons for introducing the
Another hiJacking; number sixteen In order that the financial First prize is a five foot trophy
bill, the three Senators issued 
burden on the teams might be plus $100; second prize, $50; _MIAMI (UPI)-A St. Louis to SanJuan,Pr. Eastern Air Linesjet this joint statement: lightened, the Grand Prix com­third place, $25. In addition, wtth 60 persons aboard was commandeered by a gunman minutes "Each of us .feels that the 
mittee has arranged that the loan individual trophies will be a­
after takeoff from Atlanta yesterday in tile 16th hijacking of the purpose of the Senate and the warded to each member of the
be paid off in two installments. 

year. entire student government is to winning teams. Among the digni­
The first of these must be paid

The plane, a DC8, carried 53 passengers and a crew of seven It both represent the student body taries attending the festivities
no later than April I. Teams 

was due to land in Havana at 4 p.m. EST. · and to direct the resources and will be Governor Whitcomb (ten­
wanting their carts before this 

. It was the II th hijacking of a commercial U.S. plane this year. efforts of the student tatively) and Miss Indiana.
date must first present the initial 

rhcre .also have been five foreign commercial flights diverted to government into solving The track will be located in
installment to the committee. 

C_uba m 1969, the last, a Venezuelan airlines DC9 which was problems which directly concern the south parking lot of the
To iron out financial prob­

hijacked on a flight out of Maracaibo Feb. II. student life. The co-ed problem Convocation Center. It will be
lems, the Student Union Board
has never been fully explored by 

met and set a few criteria for the approximately one half of a mile US stops VC offensive near Saigon our student government. Further teams and the committee. The long and is tailored to Inter­
complicating matters are the 
national Carting Federation
date on which the second install­SAIGON (UPI) -U.S. forces yesterday beat off four major myths and presuppositions both specifications. The Federationment becomes due was movedCommunist assaults, including attacks on two Marine bases near the pro and con which surround the will insure the drivers and cartsup from January 1970 to Octo­Demilitarized Zone by fanatical North Vietnamese human bomb issue. We hope passage of this against damage. The carts beingber 1969. An entry fee of $10squads who charged out of the pre-dawn jungled darkness firing bill provokes a reaction of purchased arc Rupp Abone kitswill be required. If the halls andautomatic weapons. approval among the student organizations agree to this set-up powered by 4.9 cc McCulloch The other Communist assaults were launched at two U.S. 25th body and creates a unified and engines. These machines werethe race will be "on."

Infantry Division bases near Saigon, hundreds of miles to the south. concerted effort among all of us chosen for their durability, safe­·\ meeting with team captainsIn one, the Communists used tear and nausea gases but without to bring quick implementation ty features, and moderate price.
this week will finalize arrange-effect. of co-ed." 


Weekends and Monday nights 
Shulas 31 Bowl 

Money Is swell stuff. It makes a party , , • 
SPECIAL: $1.15. for three games on any afternoon Monday through' 2732 S. II th St. Rd. 
political or social. It builds theatres 
Saturday · 
Niles, Michigan

for people to laugh in, houses for people 
app. 3 miles from cam­

to live in and churches too. It can make 
pus next to Shulas night 

a better mousetrap, develop a vaccine 
clubPocket biUiards available

or clear ·a slum. Lots of fine things are done with money and lots of young people are finding out about the excitement Inherent in a banking career. 0 As the largest Southern California based bank, 

Craftsmen in Optics

Security Pacific is proud of its "now" atmosphere and the many young executives 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGlASSES AND CONTACT'lt:NSES who make the decisions that put things in 
THE SHERLAND BLDG.--132 S. MICHIGAN ST.--CEntra12-146 motion. 0 If you would enjoy the involvement of working with a big, strong bank, we'd like to talk to you. We'll be on campus 

MARCH·6 
M<tin Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.--Chicago 
The Observer Is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the 
MET CLUB 

secuffirv'PACIFIC NATIONAL BANK. 
University of Notre Dame and St.
EASTER PLANE SALES 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may

An equal opportunity employer 
be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame
SUNDAY 7 PM COKE BAR 
Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 

Candidates issue statements 
Student Body Presidential candidate John Mroz issued a statement last night concerning academic freedom. He referred to recent campus disturbances as "shattering experiences for all of us", and added that "the con­cept of academic freedom seems to be the issue in question." 
In the statement, Mroz and running mate Ted Jones said: "We feel that academic freedom at Notre Dame involves both rights and obligations. The free­dom of learning and questioning are basic, and must be coupled with the freedoms of expression and evaluation. What we are so apt to forget, however, is that with every freedom of right, there ensues an obligation. This obligation must concern the 
· protection of the rights of our 
CONTOURATM with Diamonds of Ultimate Beauty. 
Illustration Enlarged 

Her fondest dreams come true when you choose a Contoura diamond bridal set. 
by~eobe~ 

Diamond Ompott C!a 
THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS 

WHOLESALE-SEEN BY APPOINTMEN1 
PHONE 287-1<127 

entire community. what he felt to be a "duplication 
Student Body Presidential of efforts" between the Hall 
candidate Ed McCartin issued a Presidents Council and the Stu-· 
statement yesterday concerning dent Senate, McCartin said, 
what he felt to be the role of the "There is no 'duplication of 
Student Body President. efforts.' The HPC is defined by 
Concerning an article of its own constitution as a non­
Timothy McHugh's in yester­political body for inter-hall 
day's OBSERVER dealing with communication." 



Dept. plans. for changes 
The Philosophy Department may soon join the Department of Theology in the changing of requirements and curriculum. Acting Philosophy Department Chairman Dr. John Fitzgerald said that the department is in a "period of assessment" both by faculty and students. 
Teachers of the four philosophy departments will meet to review the program. An intermediate meeting of departmental chairmen and of representatives of SUAC will then take place, to be followed by a general departmental 

PEACE CORPS 
Got a minute? Got two years?? 
See the Peace Corps representative and find out· how you. can help. 
Library Corridor this week Language testing Wed. and Fri. 

assembly. The purposes of the meetings will be to judge the present program and to recommend changes where necessary. 
Student opinion, resulting from student-teacher contact and from a survey taken of seniors and recent graduates, will be considered at the meetings. Dr. Fitzgerald said that there was a strong feeling among students andfaculty for reducing the required hours from 12 to 9 for a philosophy major. 

Save Biafra 





Chris Wolfe 
On Not Knowing 
One might caH it the major epistemological problem of our time, 
if one could pronounce "epi-whatchamacallit". As it is, it is easier to 
just call it by its name, skepticism, and characterize it as radical, 
extreme doubt. . 
· Skepticism is a fairly strong force in our age, whether at Notre 
Dame or most other places. The extreme doubt of almost any, or 
often every, type of certainty seems to fit very well with the 
extreme emphasis on the absolute uniqueness of the individual, who 
is left by skepticism an opportunity to rationalize anything he wants 
as the best thing, not by any objective criterion, but as "for him." 
It's nothing new, of course, but there is one particular brand of 
skeptic who has been becoming more and more numerous: the 
dogmatic "skeptic. This rather interesting animal is characterized by 
an aggressive "that's just your opinion" when any antagonist makes 
a good point in an argument. When he hears someone say, and 
literally mean, "I know that...", he has a fit of enraged anguish. In 
fact, whenever anyone dares to claim certain knowledge of anything, 
it usually provokes an agonized "but you just can't be so sure." 
The translation of these comments very often can be "I am sure 
that you can't be sure of anything." It is essentially the equivalent of 
makmg the absolute statement "all things are relative". 
If a skeptic is honest about his disbelief in certainty, the ultimate 
responsibility which ge has is to doubt not only opinions and beliefs, 
but also to doubt doubting itself. If one can't be certain about 
anything, how can one be certain about being non-certain? 
Take the militant atheist who condemns all religions as superstition or rationalization of previous prejudices. He has stopped saying "I don't know whether there is a God" and has started to say positively "there is no God". The only problem is that if proving the existence of God is difficult, proving his non-existence is simply impossible. 
The dogmatic skeptic is also seen much in the realm of ethics today. Having before asserted that universal principles were not discoverable or provable, he now insists that there are no universal principles at all. He used to say "I can't be certain about whether they exist", but now he says "I'm certain that they don't exist." 
The result of this attitude is the idea of man being the measure of all things, or to translate into modern terms, "my own unaided conscience is the absolute measure of my morality". This warped idea of conscience is a natural for anyone who refuses to accept any absolute standard for anything. The problem is that so many people absolutize their consciences in the process, e.g. against papal infallibility they uphold the infallibility of their consciences, if not literally, then by general attitude. 
The bare minimum responsibility of any thinking person is to be consistent in his treatment of himself and others. If others can't be certain, then neither should the skeptic be so very certain about his doubting everything. In fact, skepticism as a philosophy simply doesn't hold water-it's core belief is a belief, and therefore subject 


· comes to me with memory circuit requirements. Before I can start designing the circuit, I go to see a physicist. He helps me select an appropriate technology for the monolithic circuit. 
"As the design develops, I work with a test group and also check back with the systems and semiconductor people to make sure I'm on the right track." 
Keeping up 
The interdisciplinary environment at IBM helps you keep up to date technologically. As Nick puts it, "You're constantly exposed to what's happening in other fields." 
IBM needs technical graduates to work in research, design and development, manufactur­ing, product test, field engineering, and space and defense projects. We also need technical people in programming and marketing. 
Visit your placement office 
Sign up at your place­ment office for an inter­
!ON 
view with IBM. Or send 
/cAMPUS
a letter or resume to lrv Pfeiffer, IBM, 
MAR. 
Dept. C, 100 South 
12,13
Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 



------------------------------------------------~~=-~=------=----------------------------------------­
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

Dwight Murphy scored 14 points in last night's contest against Valpo, raising his season's average to nearly ten points per game. 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Office view 
NEW YORt\: (UPI) -Cal Griffith has extended a cordial invitation to his ballplayers. 
He wants 'em to know it's a blanket invite for one and ali. His door is open, he says, and his Minnesota players are invited ~o come in at their convenience and hear about ali the joys of owning a ball club. 
The Twins' owner has tried telling some of his players about a few of these joys before, pleasant little details they couldn't possibly know until they get to be owners some day themselves, but their reaction has always been the same so far. Silence. Dead silence. 
"They don't say a damn thing," Griffith declares. 'They're not the least bit interested and couldn't care less." 
Speaking from the Twins' training quarters in Orlando, Fla., where he put in a busy day Monday signing infielders Ron Clark and Rick Renick, watchinr: the workout under new manager Billy Martin when he could, and t"nding other club business in his office, Griffith talked about some of the delights of owner.•;hip, some of which players uever seem to understand. 
"There are hundreds of things players don't realize ah,mt running a ball club," said Griffith. "They don't realize them because they don't want to. For example, I don't think players take into account tltat when you operate a Class A club, you pay I00 per cent of all the playrrs' salaries on that club. We operate six Cl11ss A clubs. We also pay all salaries over $150 a month for Ollf Class Double A clubs and all salaries over $600 a month in Triple A." 
The Minnesota prexy then got around to a few routine expenses. 
"We travel in chartered jets everywhere we go except between Washington and Baltimore," he said, referring to the bail club. "That cost alone went up $35,000 last year. The players' meal 
N D dumps Valpo, wins tourney bid 
by Greg Wingenfeld 
Observer Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame basketball team accepted their NCAA tournament bid last night with a cia ssy, 89-7 2 victory over another tourney-bound quintet, Valparaiso University. Led by Austin Carr's 32 point performance, the Irish hit on their first four floor shots and practically coasted the rest of the way. 
Yesterday at 9:30 a.m., the du Lac cagers were extended one of the ten at-large NCAA bids. The Irish were assigned to the Mid-East Regional as was Marquette. Dayton was invited to the midwest. 
Carr shot a phenomenal IS of 19 from the field and canned both his freebies, thrilling a Convo crowd of I 0, I 06. Teammates Bob Arnzen and Dwight Murphy also had hot hands, Arnie hitting for 16 points on 8 of 13 from the floor and 0 for 2 at the charity stripe. Murphy's seven buckets were achieved in ten attempts. 
Bob Whitmore missed his chance to break the all-time ND consecutive game as a starter mark, as virus infection confined him to the student infirmary. It would have been Whitmore's 82nd consecutive start. 
The Irish took the opening tip and Carr's 25-foot jumper opened the scoring. After a layup by Bruce Lindner put the Crusaders on the board, 


money also went up from $8 a day to $12 and the 
so called 'Murphy Money' we give 'em in spring 
training went up from $25 a week to $40. On top 
of all that, I had the second highest payroll in the 
American League last year." 
Griffith actually qualifies as the last of a 
vanishing breed. He's the only owner left with any 
professional playing experience unless you count 
such fellows as Ted Williams who, technically 
anyway, rates as part owner. 
During the late '30's and early '40's, Griffith 
played with Charlotte in the Piedmont League. 
"Only when somebody got hurt though," he 
says. '"I more or less ran the club by myself. I was 
president and ·manager and third base coach. 
Anytime somebody got hurt, I also was a player." 
For doing all this Cal Griffith received the 
princely sum of $5,000 a year or $I 00 a week. 
"I know, I know, they'll tell you times have changed now," says Griffith. "They don't have to tell me that; I can tell them. Most people don't know that if we sign a boy to a contract and agree to pay his way through college, we still have to pay his tuition even if he turns around and tells us he has decided not to play after he signs. We paid $50,000 for college educations last year. It cost us another $15,000 for transportation of those boys who had to do reserve duty on weekends." 
Despite the present impasse between the players and owners, there's a sure way you can get a laugh out of the Twins' boss. Simply ask him if any player he dealt with ever has volunteered to take a cut since he began signing them more than 20 year ago. 
"Absolutely never," he says. Nor does he expect any ever will in his natural lifetime. 
He would like ali his players to know, however, that that invitation of his still stands. The one to come in and hear ali about the joys of owning a ball club. Griff doesn't imagine he's going to be 'bowled over in the rush. 
consecutive buckets by Jack Meehan, Murphy and Arnzen put the home team in front to stay. Carr's eighteen first-half points came mainly on 20-foot plus jumpers which helped push the halftime margin to eleven points at 39-28. 
A fifty point second half splurge and a scorching 66% shooting spree served to blow the Crusader's socks off. The lead was stretched to as much as 28 points with 5:32 left, but Coach Johnny Dee started substituting liberally, as a coach with a 19-5 record can do. 
John Pleick started at center in Whitmore's absence and turned in an eight-point, eleven-rebound effort. Sid Catlett, the "sleeping giant", came alive with a vengeance, scoring ten markers, taking in ten more bounds and blocking a couple of shots. Meehan's eight assists testify to his floor generalship. 
By virtue of their 14· 8 record before last night's loss, Valpo was awarded a spot in the NCAA Small College Tournament. The Crusaders will play in the Great Lakes Regional. The Valpo victory slate includes wins over Long Island University, Evansville, and a split with Butler. 
In a preliminary game, the Valparaiso freshmen knocked off the Irish 80-67. The ND frosh were down by only two points at the half, 41--39, on the strength of an I 8-point outburst by Doug Gemmell. The Crusaders broke to an eight-point cushion, 51-43, at I5:45, which they maintained for most of the game. Harold Green paced the Indiana team with 21 points. Gemmell finished with 29 for ND and Terry O'Brien added 13. 
Notre Dame takes on St. John's Saturday in Jamaica, New York, and returns home Monday 
night to battle Creighton. 
VALPARAISO 
PLAYER  FG  FT  RB  TP  
Williams  5-12  1-2  5  11  
Ferguson  4·11  1·1  1  9  
Sears  3-15  9-10  7  15  
Evans  5-9  1-3  2  11  
Linder  5·10  5-5  2  15  
Rainwaters  2-5  3-3  2  7  
Patterson  1-1  0-0  2  2  
Thies  0-4  0-0  1  0  
Tauber  0-2  0-0  0  0  
Sabrowsky  1·2  0-0  1  2  
McNeil  0-1  0-0  0  0  
TOTALS  26-72 20-24 27  72  
NOTRE DAME  
PLAYER  FG  FT  RB  TP  
Arnzen  8·13  0-2  11  16  
Murphy  7-10  0·0  3  14  
Pleick  4-7  0-2  11  8  
Carr  15-19 2-2  4  32  
Meehan  3-8  0-0  1  6  
Catlett  5-9  0-1  10  10  
Jones  0-1  3-3  4  3,  
Hinga  0-1  0-1  0  0  
.Sinnott  0-1  0-0  1  0  
O'Connell  0-0  0-0  1  0  
Gallagher  0-0  0-0  1  0  
Ouinn  0-0  0-0  1  0  
TOTALS  42-69 5-11  55  89  

NOTRE DAME VALPO FG 61% 36".{, FT 45% 87% 
Irish cagers assault records 
CAREER SCORING 
*Tom Hawkins  1820  
Bob Arnzen  1627  
Bob Whitmore  1538  
CAREER FG'fr,  
*Larry Sheffield  .438  
Arnzen 654-1336  .489  
Whitmore 594-1242  .479  
SEASON FT%  
*John McCarthy  .846  
Mike O'Connell  .833  
CAREER FT%  
*McCarthy 278-357  .779  
Arnzen 321-397  .809  

*denotes all-time record holder 

Jackie Meehan directed the Irish offense with six points and eight assists. 
Wrestlers triumph 
The N D wrestling squad extended its season record to 5--1 in dual meet competition by shackling Illinois Tech 28-5 yesterday in Chicago. The Irish won seven of nine bouts including two pins. The pins were made by Greg Abrams (I 67 lb.) nad Pat Mudron (Hwt.). Other winners included Tom Ciaccio (I 23 lb.), Keith Giron (I 30 lb.), Mike Duell (I37 lb.), Ken Ryan ( 145 lb.) and Bill Hasbrook ( 177 lb.). 
123 Ibs.-Tom Ciaccio (ND) 
d. Jerry Swawske, 11-2. 130 lbs.-Keith Giron (ND) d. Jerry Sevier, 7-2. 137 Ibs.-Mike Duell (ND) d. Tom Soyder, 1-0. 145 Ibs.-Ken Ryan (ND) d. Larry Foster, 6-· 2. 152 lbs.-Bob Madel (IT) d. Jim Hansen, I 1-2. 160 ibs.-(tie) Ron Rothrock (IT) and Mike Higgans, 2-2. 167 ibs.-Greg Abrams (ND) 
pin Jim Anderson 1: 57. 177 ibs.--Bill Hasbroo]{ (ND) 
d. Bob Drond, 9--0. 
HWT.-Pat Mudron (ND) pin AI deGraf, 3:41. 





