THE WORLD TODAY 
Wisconsin Guard clashes with students 
UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (UPI)-National Guardsmen tossing tear gas grenades and carrying fixed bayonets clashed with student strikers yesterday in the fifth day of disorders on the University of Wisconsin campus. 
Wisconsin National Guardsmen, part of a contingent of 900 ord'.!red out by Gov. Warren P. Knowles to quell disruption of school activities, moved into action to disperse strikers when they blocked traffic on busy U.S. 12 which cuts through the heart of the univerity campus. 
S~udcnt strikers, an estimated 400 strong, were bested and sea tered in a series of scuffles with bayonet packing guardsmen and police wielding night sticks. 
Striking students see the guardsmen as another, more ominous symbol of "racist oppression." But students attending classes yesterday generally expressed gratitude for the presence of the troops. 
"I think it's disgusting," a striking girl student said. "I feel as if I'm in an occupied country." Her bearded friend said "This is just like being in Nazi Germany." ' 
But a freshman in fashion design, whose parents are threatening to take her from the campus for her own protection, said she was very glad the guardsmen were here. 
"I want to be protected," she said. 
The comments were terse, with strikers calling guardsmen "Fascist pigs" and racists." Two long-haired students approached a guardsmen, pointed to his bayonet and ·asked him, "Are you going to usc that thing today?" 
"I sure hope not," the guardsman said. 
A motoroist in an automobile on University avenue, which was packed with milling students, said he didn't have much opinion about having guardsmen on the campus, but he sure wished there were some guardsmen where he was. 
"It was a good idea to bring in the guard when they did," said a law student from Fort Atkinson. "There might have been bloodshed otherwise." But a senior coed said, "As far as bringing the National Guard in, I think the timing .was bad. There have been a lot of rumors about violence on the campus, but I don't think they're true." 

U.S. and VIet aslt for de-escalation 
PARIS (UPI) -The United States and South Vietnam yesterday called on the Communists in the Vietnam peace conference to agree to a scaling down of the fighting. But the Communist siJe insisted on discussing politics first, and the meeting tr.ded with no progress toward a settlement of the war. 
The only agreement to everge from the meeting, fourth session of the expanded peace negotiations, was that the four sides would meet again next Thursday. The deadlock, which developed at the first conference session Jan. 25, appeared more rigid than ever. 
U.S. delegation leader Cabot Lodge and North Vietnamese chief negotiator Xuan Thuy both reported "no progress" as they emerged from the six hour and 20 minute session at the French 
International Conference Center. "I am sorry to have to say that nothing really emerged from thP­scssion," Lodge told newsmen at the U.S. Embassy. "There wasn't anything new." The veteran U.S. diplomat, however, strongly indicated he was not disappointed and hinted that any real progress might be made outside the public meetings. 

Nixon studies role of military forces 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The Nixon administration has begun a study of what the role and size of U.S. military forces should be world wide in the 1970's. 
The study is being conducted by a "steering group" headed by David Packard, deputy secretary of defense. The group includes representatives from the State Department, Central Intelligence Agency CIA and the staff of the National Security Council. 
One part is devoted to strategy in the nuclear arms race with Russia. 
Another part looks into the question of what "general purpose" military forces the United States will need under a range of possible foreign policy alternatives. 
The alternatives range from the United States being a "world policeman" for practically every dispute to complete "Fortress America" isolationism. 

Egypt oltays re-opening of the Suez 
MIDEAST (UPI) -Egypt yesterday announced steps toward opening up the Suez Canal, a perennial flash point between Jews and Arabs in the Middle East. eports from United Nations truce teams 

told  of  new  shooting  across  the  waterway  and  described  the  
situation as "serious."  
Mohammed  el  Zayat,  chief  spokesman  for  the  Egyptian  

government, said in Cairo that Egypt has given the go ahead for a new survey of the southern half of the canal in a move to free 15 ships of eight nations which have been trapped there since the war in June 1967. 
El Zayat said the survey would be carried out by the owners of the vessels at their expense. 
Israel thwarted an Egyptian attempt a year ago to survey the entire canal by firing on survey leaunches north of Ismaila after a survey of the southern end from Ismaila to Port Twefik had been completed. 



OBSERVER 
Servint the Notre /)Qme •nd St. Mtuy's Colltte Community 
VOL.III,NO 81 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1969 
McGrath to face stu 
ents 
by Pamela Carey 
Saint Mary's 'President Msgr. John J. McGrath will face students in an open forum at 7:30 pm Sunday night in O'Laughlin auditorium on the issue of recent faculty dismissals. The forum was announced to about 100 Saint Mary's students meeting last night to disc·uss student participation in academic affairs and possible action on the faculty dismissals. 

Student Body President students would care enough to 
Therese Ambrusko was voice their support in an questioned on McGrath's academic area. reaction to a letter campaign in The meeting broke into a support of the faculty members. discussion of two issues: a 
Miss Ambrusko said that Father student voice in the hiring and McGrath was "impressed" that firing of faculty members, and 
proposed action on the current 
dismiSsal of faculty members. 
Suggested action includes a 
reverse boycott early next week, 
in which students attend the 
classes of those faculty members 
with terminal contracts in order 
to demonstrate appreciation of 
their teaching ability. Students 
proposing that action feel that 
the usual boycott of all classes 
would be considered 
contradictory to their goal­positive support of creative teaching. 
Some students also intend to wear red paper hearts on their sleeves today, Valentine's Day, in support of the faculty members. A sit-in was proposed for next week by those students who felt that a reverse boycott would not be effective enough. A mass Studnet Government resignation was discussed as a protest measure. Student Body Vice-President Sa:lly Strobel pointed out that this suggestion did not come from the Student 
Contlnuecl on page 2 

Walinsky: Bobby aimed to fill void 
by Bob Schueler 
Adam Walinsky had been billed as Robert F. Kennedy's top speechwriter. Last night, before a crowd of 200 in the Center for Continuing Education, he proved it. Walinsky's speech was the last in a series of talks presented under the aegis of the Seminar on Robert F. Kennedy's 1968 Presidential Campaign. 
Revealing a still-fresh bitterness over the death of Robert F. Kennedy, Walinsky began his speech by saying that since the death of the New York Senator, the United States has sunk into a miasma, accompanied by a numbing of all pain, all hurt, and all feelings. Continuing, Walinsky said, "Robert F. Kennedy gave his life to wake us from this sleep; to see starving children, dying soldiers, and oppressed minorities. Kennedy said we should change all this, and by changing this, begin our lives over." 
Commenting on the purpose of RFK's campaign, Wa:linsky explained that Kennedy was mainly concerned with filling "the hollowness of spirit that lay at the core of America's affluence." Walinsky explained that, "Aside from the small percentage of poor in the United States who are actually starving, the rest of America's poor are well off compared to the rest of the world." 

''If you made Harlem a separate country," said Walinsky, "it would rank fifth or 
::ontlnued on page 3 

on the inside ... 
-Rossie apologizes, Page 2. -Union Board considers Grand Prix, 
Page 3. -Luking saves, Page 4. -OBSERVER Valentines, Page 2. 
-A peek at the youth fare situation, Page 7. -Tom Ehrbar gives his Valentines, Page 5. 

PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1969 
Sale Overstock 

es state 

Posters, Banners, Prints 


Rossie apologizes to players
Up to 20% off 

The threat of a boycott by
Also see our new MINI-POSTERS and Greeting Scrolls for the action of some of the 
yesterday afternoon with
the Black players of the Notre ~pectators at Tuesday night's 
Athletic Director Moose Krause,
Dame basketball team ended 
Michigan State game. 
Notre Dame Coach John Dee,yesterday after Student Body Rossie's statement read: "On
Aquinas Book 
the Black players, and others.
President Richard Rossie issued Tuesday evening the black Rossie said that he had called 
a written apology to the players 
players of the Notre Dame the meeting.
138 N. Michigan

Shop 

Rossie decided to issue the 
basketball team while 
Asked why he decided to 
statement after meeting five man
a participating as a unit 
issue the statement Rossie against Michigan State 
commented: "After talking to University felt that they were 
the black members of the

Observer Valentines 
booed primarily because they , 
basketball team and other 1--------------.--------------.---·--------------;were blacks. The Notre Dame students at the game, I felt that student body does not condone 
I'd give the benefit of the doubt this action by students or other 
For Kay...
A new Magic Bus with Mendecino 
This, for Magoo, to coo and woo, 
to the black ball players. at the Algiers or Half Moon 
Because she is like she is.
and Jude will be jivin' 
You, a Jew? Nay, Rather askew, 
spectators. As the representative
Our love-Ed, Lou, Bill, and John. 
"I'm convinced that they Lake thing Summer, pork chops, 
Dharma I have for few, 

of the students, I wish to convey were sincerely hurt by the whole apple sauce-soon 
But to you I'll do a 

The Dirty Eleven wish to 
(B) Valentine's Brew! 

the apology of the majority of episode and I don't think that Happy Valentines Day! Pruss 
thank the lovers from St. Ed's­
That's a loti t:.ove, Oak 

the students for the booing and any Notre Dame student really
Happy Valentine's Day -TCB. 1--------------frudeness the black players 
desires that such a condition
To Peggy 1---------------1 To Cathy, My love for you 
received." 
continue to exist."

I love you Mrs. Dose of McCandless Hall wishes 
Cannot be put into fifteen 

Frank all you "gals and fellows" a happy Words no matter how you 
1

r--v_ale_n_tin_es_o_ay_.-----1---sl_ic_e_it.___Lo_ve_._sa___~McGrath in forum sunday
To Pam I love you! 
Happy Birthday & Valentines Day To Sue, Continued from page 1 Strobel said. The students agreedDave 
To Killer Kevin First there was Adam Government officers themselves. to meet again on Sunday nightwith Passion. -Lover Then there was Eve 
"I've given no thought to after the open forum. No
Joni Romeo and Juliet 
Happy Valentines Day-1969 resigning. At this point I can say definite decision on action will
ro Big Shuffly Now you and me. 
Love, Bob that I would never resign," Miss be made until then.

From Little Shuffly Love, Brian 
Sophomore Carolyn Gatz Judy, Thanks for all the Words alone are not enough .... 
reported that she had contacted Happy Valentines Day 
"Coast is clear's" Dillon Love's word is to be felt, National Student Association Love, Ted 
Love, Cindy and Sandy Not heard ... So says THE POET officials who felt that other college demonstrations have hadPam, 
We love you, Van For Gail: no positive effect in particularI wuv you. 
The Young lmpressionables Pains of Love be sweeter far cases of dismissal but only onTeddipoo 
than all other pleasures are 1-4-3 
the broader issues involved.
To the little boy, George, Lattisnatch, Happy Valentines 
Senior K.T. Cannon reported
with the short hair. For Vicki, Wherever and whenever Day and 1 year Anneversaryl 
that, according to Dr. William
From the creepy wierdo. I may find youAll Luv, Bird-Lover. 
Hickey, head of the Saint Mary's To the Swinger chapter of the American ..ove always, Mike 
Dearest Linda Louise: 
"Put on some speed HOWDY, ANDREA, JANET, LIZ, Association of UniversityYou will always be my one Follow my lead." SUE, GIGI, JEAN, PEGGY Professors, a college presidentand only Valentine. Love, 
HAPPY VALENTINES 

need not give reasons for thePat Duerr 

Mike, you are the star 
dismissal of a non-tenured
Miafdrrow
& friends of on the basketball coun HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY 

In a William Castle Production 

faculty member if it would cause
Sr. M. AugustulusCSC, RIP 2/16/60 
of my heart. -Love, Janet DUMMY 
scandal. Miss Cannon-also reported that the Faculty 

Love, Ed Rosemary's Baby 
Harold, Do not get all ........ John Cassavetes 
To SMC's Batgirl 
A sse m b I y, according to its Maureen 
hot and obthered, but Happy Apologies to Peanut Butter Technocolor" A Paramounl Poclure 
Suggesled lor Ma!ure Auc!lences

Valentines Day. -Virginia. For Saturday-Nites Jam· president Dr. Leonard Knight, felt that some of the dismissals 
MURPH To Fat-lip, with love were a mistake. 
HAPPY. HEARTS DAY 
and an ice bag. SUE KERES: Beth Driscoll stated that herFri., Sat., & Weekdays 6:30, 9:30TO THE MOST BEAUTIFUL The phantom red woman. WILL YOU BE MY VALENTINE? 
Sunda, 1:30,4:00,6:30,9:00 

primary concern was a structure
GIRL WEST AND EAST DAN PASSION change, and suggested that theOF THE MISSISSIPPI-Fred 
Valentine Glee To Linda B. Happy Valentine to any SMC girl who "Get up a gang, take a cab down 
student legislature, Executive to The River Park since who 
In San Diego far away 
Board and Student Affairs
from the Slithery Dee had to stay in on a Saturday night. 
wants to see 'Ghost Poems' anyway?' 
though still our time is not today -The Boys in 227, 228, 2 
Committee work out a joint the summer calls for all our gay (iety) 
To Stan and Kathy 231,232 B-P '1-------------~proposal. Suggestions for Happy Valentines Day 1-----------------1 To C.M.E. (Peaches) proposed legislation included the Tunle Loves 
Keep up the good words Happy Valentines Day to: Happy V-Day, B-Day, creation of a rotating faculty
TheF 
your Pals, Les Bea, and Ann and Grovel Derby. members depending on the 
Carl Warren & Hugo Black -Love Art 
HAPPY VALa'.JTINES DAY TO: l---------------l---------------r--------------1department under consideration. Nancy & Pat 
Kathleen and Reginia, It was also suggested that the
To: Kitty Kathy: Sue & Her Beau 
Gather ye rosebuds while ye may ... head of a department take a Gary & Any Body 
Happy Valentines Day Why don't we do it in the road? 
From: Johnny America -Ron For a rose is a rose is a rose is a rose. student recommendation to the Kenneth and Big "J" 
Rank and Tenure Committee Henrietta: 1---------------Jalong with the department
Mary Kay, Here's a wish that all All Hail Catherine the Great You are my one and only. 
your Dream's come true! Let this
Happy St. Valentines Day Love and kisses, Joey 
be a Valentine's Day You'll Al­
Your Buddy 

ways Remember-Love, Frank 
Snooky-pooh: Happy Valentine's Day, Barbara 
I love you! I Love You. 
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN: 
Brian John 
WE LOVE YOU! 
1242 Woodward DEANNA,To Missy 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY 
Happy Valetine's DayFrom Her Secret Admirer SWEATY BETTY LOVE, ARTLOVE-THE RUGGERS

To Hildegaarde, Have an "Easy" Valentine's 
There are no tricks inOh God, Whoop. d KnowDay-Love and Kisses, The Worm Plain and Simple PaddlemouthIts a ridiculous Battle but Love, Squirrel

Shoot Happy Valentine's Day. Weeblow, 
Ensign A "red" VALENTINE'S DAY to­We love you 

To 'Lizbeth Bal, Run, Glea, Sac, Line, BanGJHMZ 
Best Looking girl north of Quo, Charlie, Tom, B, (and) Kev the Cal Sag (or anywhere!) From Oakie
To Whales from Bill & Tom: 
Love, T.B.

I may not be a ~uirrel Happy Valentines DayBut I'm sure nots over you From way off in gleaming To a notorious OC house Holden comes my girl with hair From the downstairs madesTo my one and only Dilly 
a golden may this first visit to
You're the sweetest one of all old NO be as much fun for you Nancy,Paul 
as it will be for me! Be my valentine Frog RSVP Diane Lorence 
HAPPY VALENTINES DAY To one of the seetest Valentines 
STUMMER Happy Valentines Day I know, Love Always, Gary 
FROM THE GUYS IN THE To Judy L. JFFICE-Nancy, Sue, and Gary F Pat, Love may not always bring 
Icons, Happiness; But there is no 
We LOVE you Tommy! Greetings from Transylvania Happiness without Love, C.S. L. 
-First Floor Holy Cross -Bela 
To Cindy from Rick: recommendation. How I wish we were in Peoria. Happy Valentine's day anyway. 
To Anita: Happy Valentine's Day -Andy 


STARTS TOOAY
Jeanne-No splendor in the Mardi Gras (sigh) Happy Val Day, Greg 


thefixer 

Miss Heart If you won't be my valentine Based on the Pulitzer I'll parasite myself to death. 
Prize-winning novel by
Deacon Roy Beebler 
Bernard Malamud. 

To  Kristin- 
A  Valentine  of  tolerance, Prac­ 
ticality,  and  Common  

To my little lovebug Boy, do I love you! Your mushy chickie-pear. 
Happy hearts, Hank! Hope holiday's hilarious. Halos of hugs, 
Maureen; 


My Superfantastic Valentine The Observer is P olshed dall~ 
during the college>L' . 'lester except 
-Love Johnny 

vacations by the st'udents of the University of Notre Dame. Dear Peg, Subscriptions may be purchasedfor $10 from The Observer, Box
Love you madly. JCH 

11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556GXP Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
PAGE 3
'THE OBSERVER 


Board meets this morning 



Student Union Board to discuss Grand Prix 
Student Body President J. financial feasibility of the Richard Rossie called a Student Student Union's upcoming Union Board meeting to be held Grand Prix Weekend. this morning at 9:30 in Fr. The Board plans to study the McCarragher's office at the budget for the weekend and to Student Center. The purpose of decide whether or not it is a the meeting is to discuss the sound investment for the 
Walinsky concludes RFK seminar 
Continued from page 1 
sixth in the world in per cap1ta privates, such as he had, hate all income, according to United generals." Commenting further, Nations statistics. Poverty in the Walinsky said, "The northern 
U.S. is a relative thing. The poor Wallace supporters wanted to 
in America arc those people at live apart, rather than die the bottom of the economic together, as suggested by ladder in our country." LeMav." 
"The real problem in the Walinsky then explained thatghettoes and the reservations the people who supportedand among the poor," said Wallace in the North were theWalinski, "Is not to starve for same people that RFK hadfood but to starve for dignity drawn his support from in theand personal human worth, the pdmaries. He said that theonly things that are really typical Wallace man, white, 32worthwhile." This craving for years old, middle class worker,dignity, he said, is important supported Kennedy because hebecause "The only two groups was attacking the system in thethat survive the melting pot in name of the people and for thethe U.S. arc the Blacks, and sake of the people. He explainedthose who hate them." 
that this type of person,"Has Returning to the campaign, he voted Democratic for years and said that "1968 was the year of seen the Democrats take his tax George Wallace." lie explained money, spend billions, send his that Wallace made a major sons to war, and then tell him to mistake by choosing Curtis step aside for the Negroes. This LeMay as his running mate. type of man voted for Wallace "Wallace forgot that an army of and would have voted for RFK." 
Student Government fund. The to the Grand Prix Scholarship Union's financial success lies in 
Student Government, the Fund which the Student Union two events scheduled for later 
Student Union, and other is setting up. If a loss is taken, this year. For the Junior Parents' 
student organizations all draw however, the Student Weekend, the Union has lined up 
on this fund, and, at the present government fund will suffer the the Broadway show~-''A Funny 
time said Student Union Y-P, setback. Thing Happened on the Way to 
Bill Wade, "the fund could Wade is confident in the the Forum." "This will be the 
afford another loss." present situation of the Student Union's first attempt at 
The Board is especially Union. He said, "At the end of go-carting," said Wade of the 
concerned with preventing a Christmas vacation, we had a Grand Prix Race which is to be 
repetition of last year's Student $5,000 deficit. Since then we held on the same weekend as the 
Union financial disaster. have reduced this to $2,500. Tri-Class Prom and the Senior 
Wade said, "We believe this With our present schedule for Ball in May. 
Grand Prix is very feasible. The future affairs this year, we 
budget we'ver set up looks really should also do very well." · When questioned about the good." He also pointed out that the feasibility of the Grand Prix 
A very real problem facing the Student Union is doing much Weekend, SBP Rossie said " Board is that the Student Union better than the organization was don't know yet what the B~ard can in no way make a profit on doing last year at this time. will decide. We will have to this affair. Whatever profit is Much of Wade's confidence in carefully study all the evidence made on the Grand Prix will go the promise of the Student in regard to the weekend." 
Mysterlous,JiyerIs circulated 

Student Gov't fee Is non-returnable 
An anonymous flyer was Student Government in Student Body President circulated in several halls over withdrawing support from the Richard Rossie, when asked the past few days claiming that Pornography Conference last whether the fee was returnable, students could demand return of Friday. remarked "That's not true. Its their Student Government fee The Office of Student comparable to war protesters from the Office of Student Accounts reported that several asking the Federal government Accounts. Although the intent students had attempted to get for their taxes back because they of the flyer was not made the $16 fee back, but they were don't like what the government explicit, it was apparently meant refused on the grounds that a is doing." No official reaction as a protest against the actions signed parental note was from the Administration was of the administration and the required. expected. 
'J'he Pact Finding Subcommittee of the Notre Dame Student Life Council, charged with making a 
comprehensive review of the facts surrounding the abortive Pornography and Censorship Conference, 
hereby extends the following open invitation to persons with firsthand knowledge of those e11ents 
occurring during the days of Wednesday, February 5 to Friday February 7th, inclusi11e, that merit being 
brought to the attention ofthe Notre Dame Community. Such persons are requested to: 
1). 

prepare and submit by mail a written statement, as specific as possible with respect to time, place and persons, of those events to which they were a direct witness, or 
2). request by mail an appearance before a closed session of the subcommittee 
Communications to the subcommittee should be made to: P.O. Box 522 (The Student Government), Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 ATTN: C.]. Nau, Chairman. 
The subcommittee seeks only to ascertain the facts regarding the e11ents ofFeb. 5-Feb. 7, but must make clear to all who testify-whether to our committee or any media, campus or otherwise, or any other person--that their testimony can be selfincriminating if they ha11e broken civil or university law. The Subcommittee has been informed that Fr. Riehle will not himself consider the record of such 
testimony, hut the subcommittee still feels that the above warning is in order. With that in mind, the 
subcommittee will provide a student legal counsel from the Law School who will assist at the taking of 
all oral testimony and provide information regarding the rights ofanyone who would testify. We urge all 
who would submit written testimony to be aware of their rights before submitting that written testimony. 
----------------~-------------------------------,. 
PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1969 
~llllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiJJIIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllll'lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~~ 
§ Bill Luking The List ~ 
.• -e 
Sometime in the last year, people, feeling for an instant the power of eliminating Hall Presidents Counil, and the Campus Judicial Esquire magazine carried an or assigning to ever darkness all the enemies of the Board. We couldn't fmd the Honor Council to decide article on twenty-seven people st whether its members were worth saving. Chuck Nau
worth saving if the world should pa · 
come to an end. Perhaps the The variety of the game most popular at the will be invited to be saved provided he swears never most popular question to pop up moment is to consider that Notre Dame and St. to mention the Kennedy Family. after boredom has outlasted Mary's will soon be flooded and swept away. Go In our review of the Student Union, it was decided other topics is just who would build your ark and fill it with a given number of to save Bill Wade, Bruno Eiditis, and AI you save if the world were to people. Say .27, in keeping with Esquire's original Knappenberger. We also decided to tell John Mroz cease. Of course, the game can version. that we'd save him, but in actuality we have no take a vindictive turn and It's rumored that in one round of the game played intention of taking him with us. When the possibility making uP the list of at Louie's last Saturday night, one player went of saving the Scholastic staff was mentioned, we twenty-seven or five or through the ND-SMC directory twice but could find decided against it since no one could remember who seventy-three can be an exercise only 17 people worth saving. they were. Then someone remembered Bill Cullen, in excluding particular people. b sk f and the decision was made to Jet him follow behind
In actuality you've got two lists: Picking people eventually ecomes a ta o one of twenty desirables; and choosing between several people in a particular on an innertube. If we are still short of our full one of those unfortunate and category. There are those who contend that such complement of 27 Tom Payne may be taken along as the undesirables. saving is similar to sloting individuals as "haves" or shark bait. 
In making up a -list one fe-;;ls-like Noah assembling "have-nots" with regard to that quality called soul. One of my definite "saves" knew six Barat girls the ark. The task is to fill the boat, and one also feels Such may be somewhat the case, but soul is no that he wanted to bring along so we debated for some like God, since the command of two of every kind guarantee of salvation. time whether to even consider saving anyone at St. can be taileored to your liking. Last night, assisted by five definite "saves" I went Mary's at all. It was decided to leave behind all of 
One usuaiiy begins making up a list with a few down the list in search of 22 more for my ark. SMC's Student Government except Therese definite picks in mind. There are no doubt five or ten Under the heading of University Administrators we Ambrusko who would make a nice figurehead for the definite "saves" for everybody· After naming that gleefully decided to save only Philip Faccenda. ark. We also saved Kathy Cecil. We decided that we hard core of favorites, though, though, the fun starts. Among Student Leaders we conditionally saved would leave the football team, Moose Krause, and Saving becomes the process of reviewing names. Richard Rossie (there seemed to be speculation that most certainly Johnny Dee. Ara is a potential save Saving few and rejecting (depending on one's sense of we might not be able to find 27 and we could reject since we might want to stop the rain. power "damning") many· The human face takes on a the SBP later if we found someone more to_ <?U_! We also decided to bring along Arthur Pears to 
particular quality as the mind judges a vast array liking.), we passed over the entire Student Senate, the protect us. 


More committees 
Last night approximately 100 St. Mary's students met in another effort to discuss the abrupt dismissal of eight faculty members and its effect on future policies. The two hour meeting resulted in a decision to postpone any type of action: boycott or otherwise, until after the Sunday night Open Forum with Father McGrath. "Give the man a chance to explain" seemed to be the general consensus. 
The OBSERVER has no quarrel with this decision. To act now might very well block any further chance at communication with the ) administration. Militancy for its own sake is almost never successful. At St. Mary's, where no direct action has ever been taken against anything except Notre Dame, such a procedure would be utterly ridiculous. 
There is, however, a danger in the way that this issue has been approached. For many of the girls the contract dispute is merely a jumping off point for yet another Bitch-ln. They go to the meetings and they vent their spleen on the administration, the faculty and the great student body blob. But that is it. Having reassured each other once again that St. Mary's is indeed a rotten place to visit, let alone live, they drop the subject until another crisis arises. 
There are several courses of action open to the students. They must listen to Father McGrath; listen intelligently and with a minimum of animosity. But if they are not satisfied with his answers, they must be prepared to let him know in the most effective way possible. Whether or not this is a sit-in or a mass boycott of classes has yet to be determined. They must decide to do something. An issue as important as one that determines the type of teachers at St. Mary's cannot be allowed to languish in committee, or be smothered in legal rhetoric. 
'· 
St. Mary's students have lived for five months with a Community Government that has been a community enterprise in name only. Faculty and administration have a voice in governing student hfe, but the student body has been denied effective representation in academic and administrative decisions. The present situation can only make the student body aware of the inequity of St. Mary's "community" government. 
Mary Michael Farnum, Senior Editor Paul Schroeder, Executive Editor


THE OBSERVER 
Don Holliday, Managing Editor
An Independent Student Newspaper Betty Doerr, Chris Wolfe, Michael Patrick O'Connor, Don Hynes, Tom Ehrbar, 
Bill Mitchell, Tim O'Melia, Guy DeSapio
WILLIAM LUKING. Editor-in-Chief Associate Editors 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA Ted Price, News Editor David Stauffer, Copy Editor 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1_4, 1969 THE OBSERVER. PAGE 5 

Otis Redding: life after death 
Trying to define "soul" these days is like trying to define"love," with the added problem that, unlike "love", "soul" is incredibly hackneyed. I have heard that word on the radio, in class, in sermons, in magazine articles, and even in 
This column serves as my heart-felt valentine to the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community (especially to those, who, like myself, would never receive any of the more conventional greetings passed around sweetly on this romantic occasion.) Not that I haven't been a great sender of valentines, though-I always remember those dearest"to my heart with touching little momentoes. Just to mention a few ... 
... to our valient Student Union Academic Commissioner John Mroz, I mailed a dozen pornographic and flaming valentines ... 
... to the bastion of LaFortune Student Center, Brother Gorch, what could be more appropriate than a lovely etchin~ of Cupid, fully clothed ... 
...to OBSERVER Editor-In-Chief Bill Luking, whose friendly words of encouragement and praise permeate through the cramped confines office, life bringing peace and good will to all mankind (whoops, wrong season), I sent a real heart... 
...to Student Body President J. Richard Rossie, I had intended to purchase the biggest box of candy in the world. But he is the biggest box of candy in the world. Instead, I gave both he and Student Union (President or Director?) Rick Rem busch a· pair of Cupids, set apart at 20 paces ... 
...to the swell guys of the Lady Godiva troupe, I forwarded a bouquet of pansies ... 
... to the black students on campus, rather than presenting them with hearts, I thought clubs and spadrs would be more fitting ... ( I'll probably get decked for this one) 
... to St. J oscph County District Attorney William Voor, I mailed a small statue of Cupid, blindfolded and fig-leafed. , 
... to University President Rev. Theodore llesburgh I sent a similar gift, rather ironically, a Cupid whose bow had no strings attached... 
...to all the charming ladies of SMC I offer innumerable broken hearts... 
Well, I'm getting a little carried away (or probably will be carried away soon, after a few of those comments are read). And since I'm paying $1 for every three lines of this valentine message, I will quickly continue my story, which has not yet begun. 
It is rather well known that St. Valentines Day inspires all sorts of ron1antic and loving stirrings within even the coldest of hearts. Yet few are familiar with the actual historical legendry-which forms a backdrop for the feast. It's an amazing story. 
St. Valentine, in truth, was quite a rogue by nature and by himself( he even had a massacre named after him.) ·He pursued all sorts of mischief, taking off on sorties of crime and rmlevolence laying waste to the countryside. Once, he even kidnapped a sweet young girl, holding her at the bay. Hoping to hit the child's father for a handsome sum Valentine decided to prepare a note of ransv:-:: ~at:ICr than run-some and personally demand the coin. To hide his identity he very cleverly constructed the note by pasting words of newsprint onto a sheet of paper. Unfortunately he was unable to find the word "heart" to complete his message "you'll meet my demands if you have any heart." And since time was running short he instead impulsively inserted a tiny little red heart (clipped from an antiquated biology textbook, when men were really men, and hearts were really heart-shaped). 
· And so he sent the message. The rest is history-the valentine was horn-and also the slogan "heart for heart's ache." 
... well, if you've survived this whole 

speeches by Lyndon Johnson. Somehow the word has been used to equate Shakespeare with Wilson Pickett and Bobby Kennedy with Dostoevsky; of course, all these people were "doing their own thing" (once again the problem of definition and an even grosser cliche'). Whatever doing one's thing is, it's probably the most convenient definition of soul. Whatever soul is, Otis Redding has it. It boils down to feeling it, and Otis feels it; he feels it more than James Brown, he feels it more than Wilson Pickett or David Ruffin or anybody else I've heard called soulful. And when he feels it he makes you feel him feeling it. 
Why talk in the present tense? Is not Otis Redding dead now for 14 months? No, for somehow, along the line of a relatively long career (considering the age at which he died), Otis Redding became equated with his music, and his music keeps right on coming. Three Otis albums have been released since December, 196 7, when the plane carrying Redding and band to a Madison, Wisconsin stint fell into La.•e Minona. Perhaps it is fortunate that, with the exception of "Dock of the Bay", Otis Redding has never enjoyed top forty success. Because continuous radio exposure seems to sap the quality out of good soul music. I don't know whether it's the commercialism or what that does it, but it killed the Wilson Pickett of "Ninety-Nine and a Half" and "Midnight Hour", the Four Tops of "Just Ask the Lonely" and "Baby I'Need Your Lovin"; it diminished the Marvin Gaye of "I'll Be Doggone", "Hitch Hike", etc. Otis Redding's earliest songs are alive today as thought they were just released, and some of his newest stuff is better yet. Think for a moment of all the "soul" artists 
Among the Atlantic-Record-group recording artists, there were you know that have been around for a while and try to find those who made their marks with Redding compositions:one that has improved over the years. James Brown has gone Aretha Franklin with "Respect," Etta James with "Security";from "Please, Please, Please" to a series of records over the last the horn break in Arthur Conley's "Sweet Soul Music" is the year or so that consist of nothing but screeching backed up melody of Otis' "Fa-Fa-Fa-Fa-Fa." (Late in his short career,with super-complicated percussion, totally devoid of lyrics or Otis paid tribute to the Stones with "Satisfaction," the Beatleschord changes. The Temptations have gone from "My Girl" to with "Day Tripper," and Sam Cooke with"Shakc.") The trend"Cloud Nine", Smokey from"Shop Around" and "Tracks of to do Redding songs has spread to artists like Glen CampbellMy Tears" to a battery of four singles in a row that sound and the Chambers Brothers ("Can't Turn You Loose"),identical: and who would even consider comparing "Do You "Dock of the Bay" was recorded two weeks before the fatalKnow the Way To San Jose" (adapted to a car commcricial) to plane crash and sold millions. It is Otis Redding's greatest"Don't Make Me Over." 
achievement. It epitomizes the sense of personal tragedy, of suffering-into-the-microphone that began with songs like "I've Been Loving You Too Long" and "Pain in My Heart," and his first record "These Arms of Mine."( 'The first record, the first recording that we ever recorded in all our days," he says in his illiterate way on the Live in Europe album). "Dock of the Bay" seems almost autobiographical: Otis did "leave his home in Georgia" (he was born in Macon, home of James Brown) and the song almost idealizes the kind of quietly despairing lonliness that characterizes all his "ballad sawngs." 
As if to assert that Otis lives, the mysterious agent that releases his records produced a "live" album last December (In Person at the Whiskey A GoGo) The album falls short of the Europe album, but it is priceless in its tour de force of Otis at his screaming best ("Papa's Got a Brand New Bag") and of his haunting ballad style ("These arms of Mine"). The blaring brass and brutal rythms of his hand-picked band are incredible in their variety. 
Otis may well outlast many of his soul-contemporaries, he may well outlive them. His songs will mysteriously continue to resurrect themselves and conduct his bluesy, graty, raspy, one-voice campaign for soul music. 

-----T•e Arts----­
FILMS 

The Fixer (Avon; 6:45, 9:00) The Subject Was Roses (Colfax; I :00, 3:00,5:00, 7:00, 9:00) Three in the Attic (Granada; I :30, 3:30, 5:30,7:30, 9:30) Swiss Family Robinson (State; I :30, 4:00, 6:30, 9;00) 
COFFEEHOUSES There are few soul artists that haven't knuckled under to a The Nth Degree (Social Center, basement of Moreau SMC); formula; Otis Redding is one of them. He is very successful open Sat. evening at 8:00 and Sun. evening 8-11. Mass at II since his death, in the manner of many artists, and tlis music Sunday. Performing Sat. are Nancy Barofhcski, Charlie will remain unprostituted by his success. Had Redding lived, it Wordell, the Thymes, Linda Douglass, Pat Pattison, and Lou is likely that he might have continued in the ranks of Pelosi. Performing Sun. are John Back mann, Lance Davis, The seldom-heard-of soul singers; it is just likely that, had success Occasional Bluegrass Band, and Dolores Green, Susan come, he would have sold out, too. But the musical fates have Cushanick, and Regina Bagnato from Dumbarton. decreed otherwise, and the Redding music displays consistent quality from his first compositions to his most recent albums. Despite the driving beauty of every song on the 1/istory of Lower Level (Badin's basement); open Friday evening Otis I< edding album (a "greatest hits" volume released just 9:30-1:00. Performing arc the Hickory Wind Band. Henehan, Ned Sheehy, and Jim Balcurski. There will also be a film
before his death), Redding never enjoyed flagrant success in starring the Keystone Cops. 
the United States. lie was eminently popular in Frnace and England. Uve in Hurope is perhaps his best album, exhibiting as it docs wild audience participation and the electricity that 
MISC. 

must have been an Otis Redding gig. In 1967 he was elected In the Notre Dame Art Gallery, O'Shaughnessy llall: Westthe most popular male vocalist in England. The early Stones' G allcry, "Paintings and sculpture from the Richard <.~lhums arc dotted with imitative renderings of old Redding Brown-Baker Collection," and "K inctic Sculpture" .by 
.. "hits": "Pain in My Heart," "I've Been Loving You Too Konstantinc Milonadis. · 
travesty of a wlumn, you can certainly Long," "That's llow Stong My Love Is," "Mercy, Mercy." slop through the mushiest of valentines ... 

THE OBSERVER

PAGE 6 


COME ON OVER AND WIN SOME! 
SAT. 15th -7 to 12 SUN. 16th -2 to 12 

MARDI GRAS '69 RAFFLE
MON. 17th-7 to 12 
<=:::<:::. 

4-4-2 Sports Coupe 
LIKE IT? 

LAST CHANCE FOR RAFFLE RETURNS ­MIDNIGHT SATURDAY AT THE MARDI GRAS BOOTH. 
WHERE CAN YOU TAKE A DATE 
THE 
TO LUNCH IN STYLE FOR ONLY $4? 
CHAMPAGNE BRUNCH ! 


BREAKFAST? THE MARDI GRAS COMMUNION BREAKFAST 
TICKETS MAY BE PURCHASED IN THE SOCIAL COMMISSION OFFICE FRIDAY 
~F~R~ID~A~Y~F~E~B~RU~A~R~Y_1~4,~1~96~9___________________________7,~1{~£~Q~~==S.~~~R~V.~~~~~-----PAGE7 

CAB declares youth half fares discriminato-ry 
by John Haley "benefiting the general public." d I s con t I n u e d , present the rates. 
attempt long, exhausting
C i vi I Aeronautics Board For discrimination in fares to acknowledged that the discounts Congressman Arnold Olsen 
automobile trips, frequently in 
Examiner Arthur S. Present exist, passengers must be are reasonable with respect to (D. Mont.) is spearheading a 
unsaf~ vehicles." 

recently gave a decision calling charged different amounts for co~t. No airlines have reported a drive to persuade the CAB to 
Student groups at some
for elimination of the airline "substantially similar" services. loss from the discounts. rule in favor of the discount 
universities have also formed to
youth fare. If approved by the Supporters of youth fares The case was initiated by fares. He said that elimination of 
alert students to the imminent
full hoard, the youth fare will be believe that services for full and sever a I bus com panics. the fares would "encourage 
discontinuance of youth fares
abolished within the next couple half-paying passengers arc not Originally, the CAB refused to thousands of young people to 
and to cirulate petitions for the
of weeks. s i m i I a r be c a use of the investigate the bus companies' rcsu me the illegal and dangerous 
purpose of trying to influence
Although discriminatory fares inconveniences of flying without charges, but it was forced to do practice of hitch hiking or to 
the CAB. 

arc legal in order to promote business, he said that the youth fares arc unjustly discriminatory because age alone is not a valid distinction between passengers. lie rejected the argument that youth fares are necessary to encourage youth travel and fill empty seats, saying that the airlines should develop fares 
Council committee discusses fate 
"Students do not realize the critical nature of the situation regarding the Honor Code." This was the conclusion of a meeting last night of the Executive Committee of the Honor Council with its faculty advisors, concerning the Council's sudden suspension of activities. 
Fr. John Walsh, Vice President for Academic Affairs, is expected to publish a letter today outlining the administration position in detail. 
The Honor Council is now trying to encourage forums and discussin groups. Reiterating a statement made earlier, the Council said, "We will be more than willing to participate in any discussion groups. All people have to do is call Council chairman Tom Voss." 
Members of the Honor Council spoke Tuesday at Breen Phillips and yesterday at Morrissey. They arc also scheduled to speak before the Hall President's Council, and before the freshman class officers. 
When asked about the Council's view on the controversial second part of the Honor Code stating that "I will not tolerate dishonesty in my fe II ow students, Council 
I917 Maxwell 4 Sale 
Make Offer 
1120 Strong Ave. 
Elkhart Indiana 
In excellent condition 
Come Drive it Away 
Douglas A. Shepard 
Simcris 
Open to serve ND students with beer, liquor, & meals. 
You must be 21 and show your I.D.'s 
LOUIE'S OPEN FOREVER 

reservations, the possibility of being "bumped" in flight, the fact that if there is a shortage of meals, half-fare passengers are n o t s e r v e d , a n d the unavailability of the special fares during periods of peak traffic. 
Although he recommended that the youth fares be so last year by a court order. 
Of the 24 airlines offering youth fares, 14 support them and I 0 either oppose them or have no opinion. A spokesman for American Airlines, originator of the youth fare in January 1966, stated that it would "vigorously pursue" retention of 
spokesman Ralph Pagano replied: "If the first part worked, if all students were personally honest, then the second part of the statement would be unnecessary. The nature of a community demands community honesty. Some people will not accept this. That is why we need the second part of the statement. 
"If the student body decides it doesn't want the present Honor Code, it should change it. It would be a terrible blow to go back to a system of proctors." 
alumni hall presents 

Splendor In the Mardi Grass 
Sat., Feb. IS  Mishawaka Conservation  
Club  
Buses  
7:4S  8: IS 8:30  from SMC  

10 minutes later Special Bus from Stepan-----10:00 p.m. 
from ND Circle 

Return trips at 12: 4S and I: 30 Admission: Alumni Residents-$3.00. Others-$3.SO Special rates for those taking I0:00 bus: Alumni Residents-$2.SO. Others-$3.00 
Have your day in the butcher's market. Then check with the man from LTV Aerospace. 
As a man, you've got ideas and ambitions and values that won't show up on anybody's version of the butcher's chart. You know it and we know it. 
As an engineer, you want something more than your daily bread. And we know that, too. 
At LTV Aerospace Corporation, we 
to total work force is exceptionally high.• Which adds up to a pretty good spot for you to be in -as an engineer, 
and as a man. 
So, after you've been weighed and measured, Inspected and all but dis­sected-try to stay in one piece won't 
•

you? We'd like to talk to the whole man. 
$8.00/wk./student call 233-9940 privat.l bath & pool table utilities included 
Stewart 



Sandwich 
A vaila ~le in every hall on campus Stewart Sandwich Service 925 Blaine 232-2625 

have something pretty special to offer you -as a man, as an engineer. 
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
We've got scope. Engineering scope that can take you from the bottom of THURSDAY the ocean to the outer reaches of FEBRUARY 20 space. Opportunity scope that extends 
to the top levels of management. 
Schedule an interview with our representa­
Figure It out. LTV Aerospace is one 
tive or write: College Relations Office, 
of the fastest growing companies In 
LTV Aerospace Corporation, P.O._. 
America. and what we grow on is engi­
Box 5907, Dallas, Texas 75222. 
neering strength. Our ratio of engineers 
An equal opportunity employer. 
l-TV AEROSPACE£ CORPORATION 
A quality company of Ling-Temco-Vougnt. Inc. L.TV 
--. ---------------------------------------' 
. ---·-.--~--~--­
.. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14 1969

P;.A~GE:8::.=~~::~~=::~=======T.=H=£~,~0~'B~~~'E'-}}_R~V~'E~RL____~~-----~~ 
: p ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
:.a••······································································ 
~ 
.• 
In Rebuttal Editor: In your editorial "Misunderstanding," you made some gross statements that 
amount  to  pure  B-S.  It  is  a  
recognized  fact  among  black  
people  that  anytime  

whitey -especially the white conservative press-praises and even envies black "leaders" for their "maturity, good faith and good judgment," let alone their "heroic patience," those black leaders should sense that they have been lax in their responsibilities to black people and the community. If the black athletes have "won respect and admiration," why has not their judgment in this case been respected? They are undoubtedly sure that the booing was directed towards them. Yet you say they were mistaken. Why in this case must their judgment be in error? Is it because this is the first time that they have publicly spoken out against an action by the Notre 
Dame community? 
You said that neither their coach, nor their teammates nor any of the spectators :'you spoke to were aware of any booing." Yet, why in less than a minute after the five blacks were on the court did Johnny Dee substitute two white players to alleviate what the student body thought was the loss of the "great white hope?" He was 
Assoc. Dean Childress St. Louis U. Law School Interviewing Students Tuesday, Feb. 18-254 CCE Sign-Up 10 I O'Shag. 
definitely conscious of the student reaction because he confirms this fact in your front page article. And, if, as he says, the booing was directed against him as a coach, why did he yield to it by substituting for the men he thought were capable of doing the best job at that crucial stage of the game? (It should be noted that this represents the first time that we have witnessed five black players in a game at home this year.) Maybe the white players on Notre Dame's team did not notice the reaction but players on the Michiga~ State team noticed this reaction and commented on it after the game. 
I don't expect any of the white spectators to admit to booing but I, along with other black students and black spectators from South Bend, was aware of the response. To say that booing did not occur because there were five blacks on the court is to say that racism does not exist at Notre Dame. It is only natural and within the white context to deny that the reaction took place, now that the athletes have made their feelings ·known. You ask the black athletes to reconsider in light "of definite harm (economically and in terms of publicity) to the whole community;" but what about your reconsidering in light of the Psychological effect on the blacks not only as ballplayers 
but men?  more importantly, as  black  
Arthur McFarlAI Dean Walt Williams  and  

NEEDED: FOR THIS YEAR'S AN TOSTAL/MAY 8,9,10 
Pictures from last year 
Workers for this year Call 6946 or 6935 

OPEN HOUSE RESTAURANT-HOLY CORSS HALL PIZZAS -HOT SANDWICHES OPEN FRI. & SAT. NITES-9PM-2AM 
The Mail 
Inwardly Racist 
Editor: 
I read the statement by five of our black students with sadness. My concern is not whether the student body intended to boo our black athletes, but rather that the community has allowed an attitude toward blacks to exist which makes their mistaken notion of being booed, because of blackness, entirely understandable. The separation of black and white within a supposedly christian university is totally unacceptable and the fault belongs to the white majority. Standing ovations for Austin Carr or any other black athlete will not change that. 
In my opinion, Notre Dame is as inwardly racist as any community I have encountered It is understandable that ou; athletes assumed that the booing was an outward expression of the race hate found on this campus. What is amazing, is that we continue to deny its presence. 
Sincerely, 
Gordon C. Hunt, Jr. 
John Dee, Head Coach? 
Editor: 
In these days of campus unrest over academic freedon pornography and what-all, let u~ rear one more cause for consideration This cause has been witnessed in the spacious Athletic and Convocation Center by the majority of the student body on eight occasions this academic year. To be more specific we are speaking of the former coach of the Denver Truckers and Attorney at Law, one Mr. John Dee. Albeit a 15 and 5 record sounds good, but considering the close victories over such powerhouses as 
Minnesota, Butler, DePaul, etc., 
and losses to Houston and 
Michigan State; this record 
becomes a bit paler. Mr. Dee has 
done a good job in recruiting, 
but once this material gets to the 
varsity a transformation takes 
place. As one noted authority on 
campus (who will remain 
HALF PRICE OFFER 

WHY NOT SEND THE OBSERVER HOME? 
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF IT NOW! 
Special prices for second semester 
Enclosed is my check for $5.00 
Please send the Observer to: 
NAME 
ADDRESS ZIP 
Send To: Box 11, Notre Dame 
·······························································~­
anonymous) puts it, "John Dee can make an average ballplayer out of anyone." With the raw talent available it is amazing that Mr. Dee cannot come up with an offense which can utilize the aforementioned talent (Arnzen Whitmore, Carr, Catlett, Jones: etc.). 
We suggest that Mr. Dee's title be changed from Head Coach to Head Recruiter and the University find a coach competent enough to utilize the talent available. Anyone who agrees with us, voice your opinion at the next game. 
Sincerely  Yours  in  Notre  
Dame,  
Jim F~rley  - 

Tom Cherman 
"Iron Maidens" 

Editor: 
In response to the two "Iron Maidens" of St. Mary's, we would like to say that it is a common device to stereotype a large group of people in small categories. 
Categorical pre-judgment is an easy way to avoid the personal contact that some people fear, and others might actually be incapable of. We hope that their apparently limited experience with Notre Dame men is not due to a lack of dates. 
It is a pedestrian fault of both campuses to stereotype each other. Perhaps if we looked for people instead of classifications, there might be a little more communication. At the very least, certain pink-painted children of the lakes might fool somebody and actually appear to be growing up. 
Thomas Reeder, '69 
Paul Potenza, '71 
Responsibility 
Editor: 

I believe the recent disturb­ance, embarrassment, and the violence that resulted from the conference on censorship and pornography was caused when certain members of our academ­ic community forgot that aca­demic freedom also implies aca­demic responsibility. Freedom, responsibility, and authority can not be separated. In the case in question, the authority of the administration granted the stu­dents a certain academic freedom to pursue, hopefully, certain academic considerations of pornography and censorship with the trust that these stu­dents would go about it in a responsible way. They didn't. The conference wallowed in por­nography and almost ignored the basic issue of censorship. %art of the blame may rest with those who organized the conference but I think an equal share of the blame lies with those of us who 
turned it into a stag show, with those of us who were content to get a cheap thrill at the expense of an opportunity to explore the true nature of censorship. Every­body knows what pornography looks like, so I see little reason for insisting upon screening films 
. 

-
-
ol 
-
.
-
-
-
.-­
~ornography looks like, so 1 see little reason for insisting upon s.creening films that would add little to our understanding of what pornography is. . I think we as students as an mtegral part of an academic community owe the rest of the academic community an apology. We took upon ourselves a freedom and neglected the responsibility. Father Hesburgh no doubt stuck his neck out for us; if one only stops to consider 
the risk he took in approving such a conference, only then can we truly realize the depth of responsibility consequent upon such an academic endeavor. Al­umni, benefactors, and others important to physical operation of this community were unques­tionably abhorred at the very idea of a conference on pornog­raphy, even before the violence. How is Father Hesburgh now supposed to face them? What shall he say? "I trusted the students and they let me down." The whole dilemma of confisca­ting pornographic films should n.ever have arisen under a respon­Sible academic inquiry into cen­sorship. I see the interaction of freedom and responsibility breaking down in other areas this time among ourselves. Tw~ years ago a young man spent almost his whole senior year convincing the authority of this university that students could accept the responsibilities of the freedom engendered by an Hon­or Code. This week his dream has died. The Honor Council disbanded today because stu­dents, while in general being individually honorable, could not accept the responsibility of being their brother's keepers and making sure that he too was honorable. Yet responsibility is not only individual but also col­lective. When driving, I accept the responsibility of my own actions, still I "watch out for the other guy". Our Honor Code is somewhat similar. Watching out for the honesty of another guy is not "ratting" on him, rather it is showing concern for the respon­sibilities the entire community has toward honor. If more stu­dents had been concerned about the responsibilities inherent in a pornography conference perhaps no one would have been forced into a position of using violence. 
T~e academic community, es­pecially the student body should carefully consider in the weeks and days ahead just what responsibilities are necessary for academic freedom and how these responsibilities can be rec ognized and, in some cases taught. 
Robert W. Steinmetz 
Black Culture Series 

A Black Culture lecture series organized by Dr. Rita Cassidy of the St. Mary's History Department in conjunction with the Jubilee Year Committee, will open Sunday night with an address by Professor Hollis Lynch. He will speak on "The 
that would add little to our ·Pan-African Impulse Among understand in g f what Afro-Americans: an Historical
0 

Perspective" at 7:30 p.m. in the Little Theatre. 







