
Vol. IV, No. 14 Serving the Notre Dame and Sa{nt Mary's College On"ll'n···lu"l"ll:·t··y··· -------------=-FR-ID----AY-.-o....---cT_O_B_E_R_3-.-,96-9 
McKenna's Trustee's 
McKenna relates plans for 
statement 
Dear Students, 

today's Trustees meeting 
The Board of Trustees of the University of Notre Dame will meet today in the Center for Continuing Education. As most of you know, Student Government has submitted seven proposals to the Trustees. The proposals include student representation on the Board, a statement of investments, and access to University financial records. 
These are requests, not demands; but they are important requests. I ask you all to show your support for these proposals by assembling in front of the Center for Continuing Education at 3 p.m. If you disagree with the proposals -be there to say so. I will appear before the Trustees at 2:30 to present the proposals. I will announce the results at 3:00. We have been asking for reasonable t~ings for a long time. We are asking again. We plan no vwlence, and we ask you to be non-violent. The proposals will be hollow without your support. 
. I ask y~u to come today to show your support and unity m a non-vtolent manner. We must begin today to show our concern for the University in a non-violent and rational manner. 
Sincerely yours, Phil McKenna 
by Tim O'Meilia as a show of unity on the part of the student body." 
Student Body President Philip. McKenna explained that these McKenna revealed his plans for requests were not considered the today's Board of Trustees meet­most important thing to be ing to a Coalition for Political treated this year "so that's why Action meeting last night in we presented them as propo­Nieuwland Science Hall. sals." 
The CPA also announced pre­"This is not the time nor the liminary plans for activities issue for any tremendous hub­scheduled for the October 15 bub, but sooner or later, we will Vietnam Moratorium. not ask any longer," McKenna 
McKenna read the eight re­said. quests, which include student Pat Barbolla announced that representation on the board and the CPA would support student the publishing of University in­government on McKenna's pro­vestments, he will present to the posals. board at 2:30 p.m. tomorrow in Senior Ed Roickle announced the Continuing Education Cen­that he had drafted a proposal ter and said that he would "like which will appear on the agenda to have a lot of people there .of Monday's Student Life Coun­when I come out." cil meeting requesting that Uni­
He said, "I will admit negli­versity classes be suspended on gence on my part. I should have October I 5 to observe the Viet­made the public announcement nam Moratorium. yesterday. We want people there Brian Mcinerney recounted not to take over a building, but action already taken by various 


No direct results from Hesburgh's conference 
by lkvc Fromm 
Three of the student leaders who met Wednesday with Father llesburgh commented yesterday on the value of the meeting. The 
three  com:urrcd  that  the  three  
hour  conference  will  yield  no  
direct results.  

"It was a good dialogue ses­sion hut I'm afraid it didn't accomplish much," said Student body Presidcnl Phil McKenna. "We seem to he talking on two different levels at all times. The administration couldn't compre­hend our feelings." 
Vice President Fred Dedrick described the meeting as a "gen­eral discussion to let the admini­stration know how the students feel." 
"Nothing was decided 
Wednesday," said Student Union President Dennis Clark, "but at least now the administration is aware of our frustrations and the fact that Notre Dame students are growing in concern and in­
volvement." 
Commenting on these frustra­tions Dedrick said, "the Univer­sity's financial situation is a roadblock to any type of pro­gram we initiate -from Black Studies down to Experimental College." 
"Every time we ask for money we get the same answer," he asked. 
Another area of concern is the lack of student representation and the lack of respect for stu­dent proposals. 
"We are getting s_tcppcd on. 

We arc powerless. The SLC is the "We layed our cards on the only decision making body we table. I wish I could say the have a say in,'' said McKenna. same for the administration," he "The University is moving 
said. 

away from the students off on The three student leaders also some tangent," he continued. commented on Hesburgh's ex­"Perpetuation of the institlltion tended absenses from Notre takes priority over the develop­
Dame. ment of the student and any "Hesburgh may put in as institution that survives on that many man hours as any other 
idea is not surviving at all.." university president but he's However, the three felt that inaccessable," answered Clark. the meeting was fruitful to some "Often you have to go to the 
extent. top to get a definite answer." 
Clark believed that the meet­Dedrick said that "the Presi­ings should be more frequent so dent is definitely not in touch that the students can give their with the mainstream of student 
views on pertinent issues and the thoughts and problems." 
administration can air its views. "I would like to see him "One good aspect of the ses­around more but that isn't the sion was that the students were University's greatest problem," very honest and sincere with the McKenna commented. "I would administration," replied Mc­like to see him involve himself 
Kenna. with the students and faculty." 

Seabrooks rejects all labels 
hy Mark Walbran "One interview with me will dispel any ideas of 'window dressing,' placation, or 'toke­nism' either on the part of Notre Dame's administration or con­nected.with the personal motives of this counselor for all people." So states George Seabrooks, the University's new black coun­selor in the Freshman Year Office. The interview left no doubts. Seabrooks feels Notre Dame hired him because the University is seeking skilled black profes­sionals to help solve society's problems of apathy and racism. These can only be solved with the understanding of the ideals and motives of the blacks. "I view myself,'' Seabrooks said, "as a black professional to whom Notre Dame has invested a contract, a contract to assist in searching out and identifying solutions which will prove bene­ficial for the school and the community, I suppose Notre Dame feels as though I might be such a person." 
After completing his under­graduate work at Wilberforce University in Ohio, Seabrooks 

George Seabrooks earned a Masters degree at Wayne State University in De­troit. Presently he is a candidate for a Ph.D. in guidance and counseling. 
Seabrooks spent two years teaching and counseling disad­vantaged children in the inner cities in New York, Philadelphia, Washington, D.C., and Detroit under "de facto" conditions. 
More recently Seabrooks has counseled disadvantaged stu­

bodies preparing for the mora­torium. He said all theology undergraduates had signed a let­ter in support of the mora­torium, which may be published in the National Catholic Repor­ter and the New York Times. 
He also said similar move­ments were taking place in the English and history departments at Notre Dame. 
He also announced a list of speakers who will appear during the week prior to the morator­ium. New York Senator Charles Goodell, who recently called for a complete American troop pull­out in Vietnam by December of 
1970, will speak October I 0 at 3 
p.m. in the Stepan Center. 
Archbishop John Robinson, author of "llonest to God," will be on campus Sunday through the Wednesday moratorium date and on Tuesday night prior to the moratorium, pacifist David Dellinger, one of the Chicago Eight currently on trial, will speak. 
Some of the activities already planned for the Wednesday in­clude a teach-in by the theology majors, continuous showings of the anti-war film, "How I Won the War," and a rally and a Mass. 
Mcinerney also said prayer meetings will be held in several churches in and around South Bend including a complete read­ing of the war dead on the steps of the county courthouse in South Bend. 
Also announced were prelim­inary plans for the two-day November moratorium including a national movement in Washin­gton. Peace demonstrators will march single file from Arlington Cemetery to the White House in Washington, D.C., each person bearing the name of one war 
dead,  and  all  names  will  be  
deposited  in  a  large  coffin  in  
front of the White House.  

Three new trustee members added
dents in higher cd..cation. Be­
fore coming to Notre Dame he 
was involved in recruitment 
Two nationally known men in the communications field and the selection and counseling of stu­
president of the University of Portland have been added to the dents at a consortium of institu-
University of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees. tions in Iowa, including Luther, 
The new board members are Paul Foley, chairman of the board of Waldorf, Parsons, Upper Iowa, 
McCann-Erickson, Inc., New York, N.Y.; John A. Schneider, Wartburg, and Dubuque. 
executive vice president of the Columbia Broadcasting System, New When asked what problems 
York, N.Y., and the Rev. Paul E. Waldschmidt, C.S.C., president of are unique to black students, 
the University of Portland in Oregon. Seabrooks said, "For one thing, 
Foley is a 1937 alumnus of Notre Dame who began as a Chicago counseling, at least with blacks, 
newspaperman and then spent almost three decades in the adver­can't be done from behind a 
tising field, including 13 years with McCann-Erickson. Prior to his desk." 
present position, he was a senior vice president and vice chairman of He explained that too often 
the firm. black students experienced Schneider, a 1948 Notre Dame alumnus, began his broadcasting counselors in high schools who career in Chicago and New York City and served as station manager played the role of disciplin-f W('AU TV ­
arians. o . -.. in ~hiladelphia and WCBS-TV in New York City. 
Before receiVIng h1s present post, he served as presJ·dent of the 
Examining specifically prob-CBS TV N

ferns for blacks at Notre Dame, -. etwork and. as president of the CBS Broadcast Group.Both Foley and Schnetdcr arc currently members of Notre Dame's the counselor continued, "These College of Arts and Letters Advisory Council. are not difficult to identify. Father Walds~hmidt,_ who was graduated from Notre Dame in They are problems of adjust-1942 . and rec_eJve~ h~s doctorate in theology in 1949 from ment, social assimilation and Angehcum_ Umvcrstty m Rome, taught seven years at Portland tutorial. So vital arc these fac-b f b d
e ore emg ma e its president in 1962. Both Portland and Notre 
tors that we may equate them to Dame were founded by the Congregation of Holy Cross. the basic needs of food, cloth-~he th~e~ new trustees will attend their first meeting today. Wt"th ing, and shelter. For example, thetr add t th ct.
. · . ' mn, . c a· tve trustees of the University number 32 one must feel secure enough in a Iaymen and 7 pnests. Two years ago the Congregation turned the new situation to focus himself governance of Notre Dame over to the lay-controlled Board of (continued on page 6) . 4-..T_ru~s_t_ee.;.;s;.;..________________________j 
THE OBSERIJER. 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1969
PAGE 2 

ATTENTION: SENATE ELECTIONS 
SMC prefers council system to junior class officer 
Wednesday evening The Flanner, Tower B 
Moreau I Jail 

Junior Class of Saint Mary's held Walsh 
their first class meeting. The Keenan 
purpose of the meeting was to determine if the juniors wanted to be reco~nized as a class in a government<tl structure or not. 

The above halls have less candidates running than positions available Three proposals were intra-for the Student Senate! Petitions may be picked up at the Student,....--..:::..::.:.._--...:._;.....______-.. Government Office anytime Friday and must be returned no later Monetary reward for any than 6:00P.M. Friday evening. Twenty-five signatures required. off-campus student wishing to move on campus. Call Dave 288-7739. 
The burgers are bigger at 
duced by Junior class president Karen Schultz; · · 
l) to retain the traditional class offices of president, vice­president, secretary and trea­surer; 2) to adopt a council form government with Karen as chair­man in which the members would represent floors in Mc­Candless and LeMans where their class is located, or 3) to adopt a "no structure" govern­ment in which Karen would remain as the representative head with a group of interested juniors to guide the class in the year's activities. 
Out of the ninety-two girls present at the meeting, nine voted for class officers, fifty­seven voted for the class council, and twenty-one voted for the "no structure" plan. 
As the council form was adop­ted, Karen stressed that it would be a distinctive body from those established previously. With it the Junior Class President plans to accomplish any set goals as would have been realized under the "no structure" government. 
Because McCandless houses the majority of the Juniors, Ruthie Lyons, its president, will sit in on the council in order that the hall and class govern­ments may help each other out. In two weeks the council should be formalized so as to begin making plans for the class' activi­ties. 

3 floors 
open 


Residents on the second, third, and fourth floors of Grace Hall will move in today. 
The 84 students involved in the move were notified by mail yesterday that their rooms were 
complete. 
The move relieves about 336 students in eight dorms around the campus of extra guests they have had since classes started three weeks ago. 





501 DIXIEWA Y NORTH, 
SOUTH BEND 
University maintenance men will begin Monday to dismantle bunk beds in the rooms in which the displaced students were stay­ing and begin to move in new furniture for the suite's perma­nent residents. 

We Call it <-<-Li-vability"! 
Our idea is to serve you with lunches and dinners you can live with day after day. Fine steaks properly broiled and at prices you can live with, too. And with pleasant surroundings. comfort­able booths and chairs, a little background music and a smile from the folks who serve you. And a choice of dinners to match your taste: 
I . Sirloin ....................... $1.59 
2. 
Rib Eye ....................... l.29 

3. 
Chopped Sirloin .......... 1.09 

4. 
N.Y. Strip .................. .1.89 

5. 
Ham Steak .................. 1.19 

6. 
Fish Fillet ......................99 

7. 
Y<l lb. Hamburger Platter with French Fries .. 79 






STEAK BOUSE 
1516 N. 1rohwvocl Just N. ofl:"dison 
llhe Observer Is published daiTy during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. · 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1969 THE OBSERVM 
PAGE 3 

All organizations requesting funds from


S M C faculty debates shutdown 
Student Government must contact the Stu­by Laura Haferd 
dent Treasurer IMMEDIATELY 
Called together by President in favor of a voluntary closing of withheld. John J. McGrath, the Saint classes due to student or faculty Father McGrath also an­Mary's faculty met Wednesday individual non-attendance. 
nounced the appointment of Mr. afternoon to discuss, among The faculty organization is 
Lemuel Joyner of the Art De­
Office Hours: 1 -5 p.m. other things, the administra-not at this time able to make a partment as Special Assistant to 
phone 7668 tion's anticipated position on statement due to the lack of a the President in the area of the question of holding a Viet constitution which is currently Cultural Affairs and the appoint-Nam war moratorium October being drawn up under the chair­
ments of Sr. Rosaleen and Sr. Jeanne Finske as SMC represen­
15th. manship of Dr. Clarence Dineen 
tatives to the Notre Dame Aca-1-------------------------1
The administration had been of the Biology Department. 
demic Affairs Council. He also
informed Tuesday that students Some faculty members 
said that Dr. Crossen and
arc considering requesting that seemed interested in attending 
another unnamed Notre Dame 
FRESHMAN BASKETBALL TRYOUTS
classes be officially shut down an open forum sponsored by 
faculty member will be <lttend­
on this date as part of a nation-C.P.A. members on campus 
ing St. Mary's Academic Affairs 
Tues. Oct. 7
wide protest. If no heed is payed some time next week. For now, meetings. 
7:00PM
to this demonstration, 
the any policy decision is being 
C.P.A. will work for a 
Theater of Athletic and Convocation Center moratorium in November, and For all freshmen who wish to try out for basketball. add a day each month until the country's higher educational system is completely halted. 
At this meeting, Father McGrath asked faculty members to act as advisors to help deter-ji&II&LII&LILLI.ILUJLUJLUJLUJLUJLUJLUJLUJLUJLUJLUJLUJLUJLUJLUJli.Uli.ULUJLUJlUI~----------------------~ mine whether or not this demon­
stration would be acceptable for the college's particiapation. i\11 initial misunderstanding regard­ing the origin of the moratorium was cIa r i fied by Professor Hutchinson, chairman of the 




The Burgundy Street
Philosophy Department, who assured the assembly that it is not sponsored by S.O.S. or any other strictly minority student group. lie mentioned that the 
Singers were justmoratorium committee is using McCarthy headquarters in Wash­ington, and that the plan is backed by John Brademas, 
10 unknowns from Kansas.
(Dem. -Indiana). 
The president next raised the question of whether an educa­tional system should allow itself to be used as a political tool, and whether this is what would be the effect of the moratorium. 

Then they entered
Although no concensus was reached by the debating faculty, it was judged that a majority were opposed to an official mor­atorium, whereas they might be 

the Intercollegiate Music Festival. 
The Burgundy Street Singers performed as regulars this summer on CBS-TVs Jimmie Rodgers Show and are now under contract to Budweiser. From Kansas State University students ...to professional entertainers in one year!

STEREO 
en. ter no-w! 
Sign up now for the 1970 
REGIONAL COMPETITIONS: Intercollegiate Music Villanova, Pennsylvania; Festival ... it could be Tampa, Florida; Edwardsville, the start of a new career Illinois; Austin, Texas; 


TAPES 

in show business for you! Reno, Nevada; Northridge, California.
Competition is open to 
vocalists, vocal groups For entry forms and complete
8 TRACK 

and instrumental groups information on how to submit
List$6.98 

... in two musical tapes and photos, write: I.M.F.,

Charlie's Price 

categories: Folk and Pop. Box 1275, Leesburg, Florida 32748. 


$5.88 2 
H.A.R.L%E'S 

Sponsored by
C. A 1-1 ~ U 1-4 ~I'> •t I" , 'I 

OPEN DAILY 9 to 6-1 
SAT. I LIIL to 5 p.111. 

Budweiser
PH. 287-7218 

774 Lincoln Way East 

KING OF BEERS. 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. lOUIS • NEWARK • lOS ANGELES • TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS • JACKSONVILLE 



FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1969 


"No matter what you doves do October 15, you won't affect me!" 

Rick L.ibowitz 
Dim, dark days 
Item: Notre Dame opens new experimental dormitory and "Halfway House," September, 1967. 
I went through Holy Cross Hall the other day. In the two years I had lived there, it was a dorm marked by constant change. Now, with an off-campus address, I was back to take a look at the latest evolutions. 
Fr. Joe Hoffman was the rector that first year. It was an old high school seminary, complete with gym, being opened to the college students for the first time. The rooms were large, the halls wood-panelled and carpetted, compensations for the students living so far from the rest of campus. On the ground floor, there was a rec room with three resurfaced pool tables, as well as a restaurant and coffee shop, open seven days a week. But it takes more than nice rooms and a restaurant to build a dorm community, it takes people, active people. Michael Patrick O'Connor lived in Holy Cross that first year, as did Lou MacKenzie and Lou Pelosi. Ed Roickle and "Groovy Brucie" Carter were on the hall football team.. .it was that kind of a place, with that kind of people. 
After a hall government had been formed, parietal hours were soon passed and put into operation. The University quickly put pressure on Fr. Hoffman to abolish the rules (a flaunting of University regulations in those dim, dark days); he refused, merely requesting that the hall suspend them. Throughout the first year, the hall's residents continued to act as if students had the rights of 
. human beings. Girls were a common sight in the halls and the hypocritical feeling of sneaking your date to your room, so common to the rest of the campus, was gone. The Administration was upset at this unexpected turn of events and "steps were taken." The next year, Fr. Hoffman was gone; in his place came Fr. Joseph Miller, a middle-aged parish priest from New Orleans, whose rapport with students quickly showed itself to be nil. When we returned that second September, the pool tables were gone,the "beach" on St. Mary's Lake was off-limits for swimming and an attempt was being made to seal off several of the hall's numerous entrances. The restaurant, which had employed dozens of students the previous year, was closed. The Anastasio brothers, who had managed the place that first year, had left when the University upped its financial demands to approximately 40% uf the gross. It remained closed, until several students took over its management in late autumn, opening on weekends only. By semester break, a large number of the hall's residents were gone, to Sorin, to Walsh and Off-campus apartments. More planned to go at the end of the year. This week, the room that had once held the pool tables was empty, a large padlock on the door to keep students out. The corridors were filled with new faces, to whom the old days are unknown. Fr. Miller is still there-with a few others, many of whom are openly contemptuous of him. 
They say that next year Holy Cross will be converted into a co-ed experimental dorm. You have to wonder if, once again the University will be frightened off by its own success, panic and ruin 
another good idea. 

LeHer 
Editor: moving, more emotional, but it In rebuttal to Miss Laura 
is far less effective than the Heferd's letter in the October I 
person who continually lives the Observer, maybe it is she who 
Christian life. has the mistaken notion of 
Personally I cannot share yourChristianity. Perhaps she is still 
attitude. I realize helping some chasing a Christian image that 
cause dose to home by some resembles John Wayne more 
small action may seem frivolous than Jesus Christ. Maybe the 
to you, but to me it represents greatest sacrifice is to be shac­
the whole point of Christianity.kled to the fact that the only 
In all seriousness I would rather way to serve each other is 
be a "Candy Christian" than a through little actions such as 
"Pharisee". donating desserts. Perhaps, for 
Mike Ptacin her, dramatic adion is more 
403 Zahm 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1969________________----r THE OBSERUIR PAGE 5
------·------_______________.:....:___, 
Due to an enormous demand by the Notre Dame frosh, the Obscrver has decided to print the words of the stirring Notre Dame victory march. "Cheer cheer for old Notre Dame, Wake up the echoes cheering her name, Send a volley cheer on high, Shake down the thunder from the sky What though the odds be great or small, Old Notre Dame will win over all, While her loyal sons are marching, Onward to victory." Due to an equally enormous demand by the entire Notre Dame student body the Observer has decided to print Jim Brogan's Chart Choices. 1. Hold Me.....•••...••..•.•..........•••....•.•••... Baskerville Hounds 2. Jean.......•.•......•...•••••....•••.................. Oiiver 3. Little Woman ....•..............•...........•... Bobby Sherman 4. Carry me back .•..•......••••.......•.•....•.. Rascals 5. Sugar on Sunday .••••••••...••...••...•..... Ciique 6. You. I .••••.••.•.•..•••.••.•.••.••.•.•.•••..•••.••... Rugbys 7. Wedding Bell Blues ........••.•...•.. 5th Dimension 8. Make Believe ..•..•.............•..•.••..•......•.. Wind 9. Jesus is a Soul Man .....••......... Lawrence Reynolds 10. You've Lost that Iovin' feeling ... Dionne Warwick  A WINNING COMBINATION AMERICAN GENERAL Free PrnSJII!ctus Ooolllet LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY l!lVI"o YC!II If II• f.11 I•; 011 CHANNING Offers College Students the only SPECIAL New Idea in Life Insurance in the FUNDLast 25 Years A mutu<~l funcl that aims for possible long-t()rm growth of r..1pitill tllrour,h ili'U:(r<'ssivcMONEY invr~·~tm0nt pnlir:if'!'i. Shilrns mAy tu~ l'''rc:ll;l~~,.d 11nd,.r lhf' voltmt;uy Cltlf'll 1\cT.Ollfll Plo~n with ;111 initi.ll iiiVP'ii111PIII nf '~10() .tfld LIVING ',lllv~nrpJPnt inVf",ln1Pill'1 nf $?~j nr rllllfl'. M.til IIIi·~ .trl lor"' "''I! I'JII'.fi'~CIII·. IIOflldt·l.BENEFIT CHANNING COMPANY INC. WILLIAM RUITER write today for more 2227 ALLEN PARKWAY information HOUSTON, TEXAS 77019 William Ruiter name 288-0657 N.HIH... --------­ALLIED LIFE AGENCY 1\dofri'SS -------­school address 404 J. WALNUT ST. SOUTH BEND, IND. AGENCY CODE 527telephone  
GREAT STATES THEATRES ';;r-"11111111111~-· TO-DAY BONN/H & CLYDH /:15 5:/5 9:15 BULU7'T 3:15 7:15 Together for the First Time Catch them both 4.~() -2lX¥ RTfAXL'~I)t"Butch Cassidy & the SUNDANCE lcid"  
Wt-\AT Do '/ou \HINK MY Ct-\AtJCES ARE OF= REACHlN& HOLLVWOOO? \JERY &ooo,VAt..ERIE., \F '/OU DIAL ! AND AP.EA CODE. 213 Get outta town without leaving campus. The lowest long distance rates are in effect every school night after 7 p.m. and all day Saturdays and Sundays. @Indiana Bell Use your long distance calling number. Save time. Dial your own calls.  
lnt'/ Students Assn. offers its members PLAN YOUR WINTER/SPRING VACATION NOW! Student Flights To MEXICO & SWITZERLAND Take Your Choice-Break Away And JOIN THE JET SET!!! (Fun-in-the-Sunll)MEXICO Depart Chicago: March 27 or 28 Return Chicago: April 4 or 5 Trip includes: Round trip jet fore per person; hotel room; 4 in a room; baggage handling; trans­fers; bull fight; gel-acquainted happy hour in exciting MEXICO CITY! (Ski Holiday!): (via Swiss Air)SWITZERLAND Depart Chicago: March 21 Return Chicago: March 28 Depart Chicago: March 28 Return Chicago: April 4 Trip includes: Round trip jet fare per person; hotel room; double occupancy; lift I i c k e Is; 6 ski $29500lessons; baggage har,dling; trans· .~ers; all meals; ski equipment; gel· acquainted happy hour! Trips sponsored by International Students ,\ssociotion, representation around the world. Make checks payable to: Int. Stud~s As~·n., Min. Deposit, $25.00 per seat due by Oct. 15 I Bal. due before Feb. 1, 1970. Full refund ~:::/~::~~~J;~=~;~~~J~:;n~~!)2!:~!====.,·====:..=:=:~~===~;:;=======:=::======================:=:=:::::::=:=:======:===:=:====···· · · · ue.ac o. mai•J TO: International Students Association, 184 Foshoy Tower, Minneapolis, Minnesota Enclosed find $____ !Deposit-Fulll Payment to reserve__ seats on trip to _________deparling ______ NAME:. ·--­____ ADDRESS: __________ PHONE:_ SCHOOL:  


PAGE 6 



the Squire 
HAIRSTYLING for MEN 
• Razor Cuttinr; • Hair Colorill' 
Continental Styling Mornings --.r., Wed., Thw. 
Afternoons-Mon., Toe., sa 

Call for STUDENT SPECIAL 125 E. Colfax Ave., So. Bend Phone 234-9737 
'E OBSERUER 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1969 



Black counseling impossible from desk 
(continued from page 1) acquaint himself with more than "One black counselor is certam­
himself as a tool for mastering wholly upon what is required of his situation." one individual alone could ever ly not enough. There is a great him." Seabrooks said reading was a 
learn or experience, then he need for coordinating, educa­The black student, he added, problem of "highest priority" as would be on the road to reading ting, and effectuating the chang­cannot do this if he must keep far as black students are con­with comprehension. ing of attitudes. Various deans, part of his attention upon what cerned. He said that if the stu­Seabrooks said his format for professors, directors, field 
seems to him risks to himself. dent could see reading as a a student's problem with iden­agents, other counselors, speech "Once this security has been "time-binding device" recording tity will be to help the student and reading consultants, and ad­established," he explained, "the accomplishments of past genera­"thrash his problems out for missions people need to be student must be able to use tions, a means by which he can himself." informed of the diverse needs of 


black students within the frame­work of a white, highly selective, greatly esteemed university. 
"With such a view in mind, it won't take the black community at Notre Dame long to realize that we mean business and that this view is an indication of a serious attempt to get our fair share of the good goodies which exist here at Notre Dame." 
Mr. Seabrooks was born in Charleston, South Carolina. He is married and has one 16 year old son. 


Student Union Social Commission 
presents the 


CHAMBERS BROTHERS 
in concert 

The "Morninglory Brigade" and the "Thymes" will open the show followed by a 90 minute performance by the "CHAMBER BROTHERS" There will be a social mixer at 7 pm in the A.C.C. concourse. Admission 
will be limited to the first 150 guys and 150 girls who buy single tickets. Tickets must be stamped at the time of purchase. 



FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1969 TilE OBSERflllt 

Butkus, meat work help Curl 
Ron Curl makes no bones about it-Illinois and Chicago Bear linebacker Dick Butkus is his favorite athlete. 
"lie knows what it is to be 
mean," Ron explains simply. 
Is Ron Curl mean? There has 
to he some reason why the 6-0, 
240-pound Michigan State tackle' 
from Chicago has come so far so 
fast. 
In spring of 196S, Curl was j ust anot her name on the Spartans' spring roster-a highly regarded newcomer to be sure hut still a frl·shman who spent th~ entire spring sidelined by a bad left ankle. 
A year later, however, Curl was the Spartans' only returning starter at defensive tackle. 
After seeing only 20 minutes of action in State's first four games of 1968, the beefy sophomore had started the Minnesota game as a replacement for the injured 
Saturday's l.ine -ups 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE 

SE Tom Gatewood L T Jim Reilly LG Larry DiNardo C Mike Oriard RG Gary Kos RT Terry Brennan TE Dewey Poskon QB Joe Theismann LHB Ed Ziegler RHB Denny Allan FB Bill Barz 
NOTRE DAME DEFENSE 

LE Walt Patulski LT Mike McCoy RT Mike Kadish RE Fred Swendsen LO LB Tim Kelly L1 LB Larry Schumacher RILB Bob Olson ROLB John Raterman LH B John Gasser RHB Ralph Stcpaniak SA Clarence Ellis 

NOTRE DAME ITS PEOPLE AND ITS LEGENDS by FRANCIS WALLACE 
This Is the story of the University of Notre Dame from its founding to the present-the story of its people, its traditions its sports, its great ev~nts and achievements, and its new expectations. 
1067 .... ' ....... $6.95 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
regular, Rick Benedict, and had finished the season as the front wall's second leading tackler with 19 solos and 25 assists. He also finished second on the team in tackles for lost yardage with eight for 61, minus 61 for opponents, and his line coach Henry Bullough, offers a reaso~ for the rags-to-riches transformation. 
"Curl is an exceptionally hard worker who loves the game of football," Bullough explains. "He'll do anything to become a better player." 
Anything includes his summer 
job. A product of Chicago's 
tough South Side, the 
20-year-old junior spends his 
surnn!ers as a meat lul~ger on the truckmg docks of a Chicago meat packer, carrying quarter beeves that scale around 200 pounds apiece. Meat lugging may not to be the usual summer employment 
SPARTAN OFFENSE 
SE Frank Foreman L T Dave VanEist LG Donald Baird C Thomas Beard RG Ron Saul RT Craig Wycinsky TE Bruce Kulesza QB Bill Triplett LHB Eric Allen RHB Don Highsmith FB Kermit Smith 
SPARTAN DEFENSE 
LE Gary Nowak LT Ronald Joseph RT Ronald Curl RE Wilton Martin LB Thomas Barnum LB Kenneth Little LB Donald Law LB Mike Hogan LHB Harold Phillips RHB Clifton Hardy SA Jay Breslin 
for a college football player, but then nothing would be too unusual for this determined athlete. Curl enjoys being a starter. It hurt him a great deal when he had to sit out that first spring in East Lansing, and that's a feeling he'll not soon forget. 
"Athletics mean everything to me," Curl says. "It means what I like to do best--play. I can't stand to just watch. I'd quit first." 
As a prep in Chicago, Curl attended De LaSalle High School where he put together an impressive athletic record. Despite the fine game he had as a starter in the Spartans' big 21-17 upset over Notre Dame last October, Ron still counts a high school game as his biggest sports thrill. 
"I picked up a fumble in our game with St. Catherine and went HS yards for a touchdown," Curl recalls. "There were only 56 seconds left in the first half, and it put us ahead, 21-14." 
Base b a II is the physical education major's other big love. A two-lime all-league pick in high school, Ron has coached a Little League team and played softball for the team which has won the Windy City CYO title the past three years. 
A high school All-American selection in football his senior year, Ron was a highly sought college prospect who says he picked Michigan State because "they weren't phoney; they told 
me the truth." 
With a brilliant sophomore season now behind him, bigger things seem to be around the corner for the hustling kid from Chicago. 
"Curl improved a great deal as a sophomore," Bullough says. "With his great quickness and added size, we expect even more from him as a junior." 

llratbrr 1Ltb. Jmain $treet 
The I969 I nterhall football 

season  will  open  Sunday,  
October  12th  with  a  record  
number  of  teams,  20,  and  

players, 700, slated to participate. This season's games will be played on the lnterhall Field, just south of Cartier Field. 
~lay will be governed by bastcally the same rules as in previous years with only one major change being initiated in a~ effort to curtail injury. Ktckoffs have been eliminated; the ball will be put into play from scrimmage on the 35-yard 
FAMILIII ­WB.CWM 
Stukall4 
line in any kickoff sit~ation (this includes safeties). Punting, however, is still permitted. 
The twenty teams have been divided into four divisions; each team will play four divisional games and the four divisional winners will meet in a mid-November playoff to de t e r m in e t he c a m p us ';hampion. 
THE FIRST FRIDAY 
Dance Concert 
2nd Floor LaFortune 
9:00-11:30 this Friday 
after the pep rally 
$1.00 per person 
Jfine 
~lot bing in tbe 

Wrabition 
of 

1Leatber 
.sanbal~ 
, 
morrastn~ 

ue.st.s 
~hirt~ 
belt.s 


etc. 
.118 ~ilUtb 
... 

J 

~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1969PAGE 8 





Successive losses -a first for Ara 
Tomorrow marks Ara who had combined this year for lack-lustre Notre Dame-Spartan
leading receiver. Fullback Barz time-consuming offense. The Parseghian's first real chance to 57 tackles, will attempt to rally game that I've seen. This won't
and split end Tom Gatewood Irish can not afford to fall 
Jose two games in a row in his a defense which gave up 414 be either. You know Notre
have five receptions apiece. behind in this one. State coach 
career at Notre Dame. Whether yards in total offense last week. Dame is going to be ready for us
Michigan State has come from Duffy Daugherty has 
or not Ara keeps his record clear One statistic in NO's favor shows and we're hoping to be ready for
behind to win twice this year commented on Saturday's
of double defeats will depend the Irish giving up only 2.4 yards them. We'll not be holding
despite the problems of contest: "There's never been a 
upon how well he combats per carry on the ground. And anything back for Ohio State." Michigan State's Veer Offense. MSU's passing has been poor so The Irish have made some far this season. defensive changes in an effort to The Irish will try to put some 
No. I is goal of MSU tackle 
prevent the crunching Spartan life into a so-so offense which ground attack from controlling has shown a marked propensity 
East Lansing, Mich. -"I think Indiana as well as by State. Craig also wrestled in his high the clock. John Raterman and for failing in crucial third down athletics is a big equalizer," says "Danny Boist ure (former school days and lettered once inRalph .Stepaniak will replace situations. Denny Allen, who 
Michigan State's senior offensive track. Since coming to State,
Bob Neidert (LOLB) and Chuck had a fine running game against Spartan assistant now head
tackle Craig Wycinsky. however, it has been all footbalL 
Zloch (ROB). An offensive Purdue, will start at right coach at Eastern Michigan)
"It doesn't matter who a man Michigan State football
change which was not halfback. Ed Ziegler, Bill Barz, called me when the team got
is, what he has or anything else supplied his biggest athletic
intentional was that of Dick and Joe Theismann comprise the back from the Rose Bowl,"
when he gets out on the field. thrill, that 21-17 upset over
Zielony for John Cieszkowski at rest of the backfield. Ziegler Craig recalls. 
The only thing that matters then Notre Dame in 1968.
back-up fullback. A shoulder leads the team in rushing with "I visited the campus and was
is what he has within him." "I got lightheaded during that
separation has shelved "Cisco" 136 yards in 24 attempts. really impressed with it. After
Craig's most admired athlete last goal line stand," Craig
for the season. Tight end Dewey Poskon has that my mind was made up."
is Jerry West, the Spartans' admits.
Mike McCoy and Bob Olson, six catches for 75 yards as the Craig is one of four former
.llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllll All-America offensive tackle in "I had to sit down and cool
high school fullbacks starting in

1965. off. Then when everybody ran
the Spartan offensive forward

"Jerry wasn't afraid of out after AI (Brenner, the
1!;----~--'( wall. Teamed with fellow tackle
anybody," Craig says. Spartans' All-American safety)
L:~-Dave VanElst, guards Ron Saul
"They might beat him for a stopped Hanratty, I got knocked
and Don Baird and center Tom
Vr\~ 

while, but not for long. And over. It was really something."
·~-~1;, 
Beard, he helps give the Spartans 
. once he started beating them, Craig is a member of State's

l~IRISH EYE 
a mobile veteran line that must 

. he'd just keep it up." Varsity Club and of the
rate as one of the team's

Another favorite is former Fellowship of Christian Athletes . 
By Mike Pavlin, sports editor strongest areas. 
\ Spartan wrestling great Dale Anderson, twice an NCAA
1111011.1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
champion at 137 pounds. "Andy never let up. lfe
The Picks 

wanted to win and nobodyI had a mixed weekend in predictions last time around: I 
could stop him." improved in "point spreads", but I picked less winners. Each week 
Craig was a winner in highthe games seem to get tougher. This week looks like "Who really is 
school at North Farmington,the nation's best quarterback" Week as several of the country's best where he led his team to a 
square off against each other. 

two-year record of 16-1-1 and Notre Dame over Michigan State-by 7. I really hope the Irish win 
earned himself All-Conference 
this one. After last Monday, I've just about run out of words about honors as a fullback and 
losers. 
defensive end. 

Purdue over Stanford-by 6 Battle of q b's, Mike Phipps over Jim After 1tis senior season CraigPlunkett. 
was recmited by Michigan and Florida State over Florida-by l 0. Another face-off with Bill Cappleman getting the nod over the Sators' soph star Bill Reaves. Mississippi over Alabama-by 6. Ole Miss, with quarterback Archie 

No TV

Manning, is smarting from last week's stinging at the hands of Kentucky. Kentucky over Auburn-by 3. Another upset for Johnnie Ray. 
A scheduled

USC over Oregon State-by 13. Dee "Great Pumpkin" Andros closed -circuit tele­always gives the Trojans trouble. This year he'll need all the Orange cast of the ND ­Power he can find. 
MSU game this 

Missouri over Michigan-by 6. Guess. 
weekend has been 

Delaware over Massachusetts-by 17. After narrowly (36-33) cancelled. Provision 
missing in their upset bid against Villanova, the 9th-ranked Blue for the broadcast 
Hens bounce back. 

was originally made Pitt over Duke-by I. 
along with plans for 

Boston College over Tulane-by 14. 
the Purdue screen­Arkansas over TCU-by 21. 
ing. Anyone still California over Rice-by 17. 
holding a ticket can

• Texas over Navy-by 30. Army over Texas A & M-by 10. 
::::: convo box office. :::: Iowa over Arizona-by 13. ~:::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::'::; Arizona State over Brigham Young-by 14. 
Wyoming over Colorado State-by 20. Kansas over New Mexico-by 10. 
1970 Seniors Washington State over Oregon-by 17. UCLA over Northwestern-by 24. Ohio State over Washington-by 30. 
October 18th is the last date toIndiana over Colorado-by 13. 
get your picture taken for thePenn State over Kansas State-by 17. 
1970 DOME if you have not al­Minnesota over Nebraska-by 3. 
ready done so·. AppointmentsWisconsin over Syracuse-by 3. 
are to be made at TornpsettLAST WEEK: Winners, Won 16 Lost 8 -.667 
Studios, 122 N. Michigan.
Point Spreads, Won 12 Lost 12-.500 SEASON: Winners, Won 38 Lost 14-.731 Point Spreads, Won 21 Lost 31-.404 

JUGGLER 
The 6-3, 235-pounder is majoring in finance and plans to work in his father's business after graduation. The senior Wycinsky heads the Sky Tool and Gage Co. of Novi, Mich., and has employed Craig around the shop for several summers. 
"The company has a branch in Phoenix, Ariz., and I'd like to work in that one," Craig says. 
"That's my kind of country." 
He describes himself as a sports car enthusiast and considers a 1967 Corvette his most prized possession. 
And at present he has one overriding athletic ambition. 
"I want to play in the Rose 
Bowl," he admits, "but that's not exactly right. 
"I want State to be No. I in the country. That includes the Rose BowL" 
ALL N.D. AND ST. MARY'S SOPHOMORES INTERESTED IN WORKING ON THE 
SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAl. 


MEETING AT 6:30 SUNDAY OCT. 5 IN THE LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 

contributions are now being accepted for the fiii'St iSsue ·address: 
The Editor Notre Dame 









