Petty thieves hit NDoverweekend 
by Bill Holley 
In the past three days Notre Dame has been hit by a rash of petty thefts. The first instance occurred Friday night at the Cellar in the basement of the Halfway House. At this time a total of $95 was taken from the purses of two girls visiting the campus for the weekend. The purses were left in the coatroom, which was unguarded. 
Freshman Class President Ray Comnell explained that the reason coats were not checked was that the coatroom serves not only the Cellar but the Halfway !louse and the Holy Cross lounge. In his words, "Why should we have put someone in the coatroom to check coats when we were only using the Cellar." 
A number of coats were also reported stolen from the coat racks at the Mardi Gras Carnival at Stepan Center. Mardi Gras Chairman Jim Golomb admitted that he knew of six reported thefts. Campus Security only had one incident reported while figures were not available from the St. Joseph County Sheriff's Department as to the number of official reports. Ernie Gargaro, a member of the Mardi Gras Committee reported that the reason coats were not checked at the Carnivalswas that funds were not available to pay people to watch coats. lie said: "It would run personnel costs out of sight.'' Two additional Sheriff's 
deputies were put on duty 
Sunday to help with security but 
as one deputy put it "We can 
watch the coat racks but we 
can't tell if they are taking their 
own coats or stealing them." 
About 4:00 p.m. Sunday, Henry Cardinnlc uf 417 Lyons reported to tit.: Security office that his wallet and class ring were stolen from his room while he was out. His roommate David Heise was at the room at the time. Heise said that two negroes about 18 or 20 years old came to his room asking for a friend. Heise then went to look their friend's number up in the phone book. When he turned around the two men had left. He later discovered that Cardinale's wallet and class ring were missing. 

THE 

OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dome and St. Marv '1 College Community 
VOL.III,No.82 Monday, February 17, 1969 
.... 
Black Culture Lectures 
Lynch opens SMC lecture series 
Last night the St. Mary's Black Culture Lecture Series was opened with a lecture by Professor Hollis Lynch, director of the Black Studies Program of the State University of New York, Buffalo, and author of Edward Wilmot B(vden, a biography of an influential 
Must ''define our role .. . " 
Posters, paint job absorb HPC 
Steve Chardos, committee newly painted Howard Hall, member of the upcoming "war complained that the paint is against racism" conference, peeling due to the tape and the addressed the Hall Presidents tacks used to affix flyers to the Council (II PC) at a meeting last walls. He asked that legislation 
night in the student center be passed as to the number or amphitheatre. He told the manner in which the flyers presidents of conference plans 
might be posted. Jim Smith, president ot ~t.

which include panel discussions Ed's then asked that "someto be held, speakers to be heard, meeting in the future be devoted and films to be shown in each 
to determining what our
hall, and asked that they set up potential is and to defining our
proper accomodations. 
role in the university."
Joe McFarlin, president of who encouraged American negroes to emigrate to Western Africa. 

Professor Lynch led-off the series by providing a survey of the effects of historical developments and a number of black leaders on the American negro's attempt to return to Africa after the Civil War. A question session following the lecture prompted a comparison of such recent Black Nationalists as Malcom X, who visited Africa several times and earlier Afro-Americans who may have had an entirely different vision of the African state in relationship with America. 
Dr. Rita Cassidy, professor of Afro-American History at St. Mary's and coordinator of the series, announced that in the coming weeks topics in the series will study such aspects of black culture as the current American "black is beautiful" appreciation of all aspects of negro humanity, nineteenth century blacK thinker and the proponents of a revival of fascination in traditional negro foods, clothing, music and dance. American and African 
styles in literature, art and architecture will be also compared. 
African playwright Wolc Soyinka's The Trials of Brother Jero will be performed by a local· all-black cast, and the Moreau Art Gallery is exhibiting a collection of implements, textiles and clothing articles entitled African Structural Arts throughout the month of February. 
The second lecture will be Wednesday (please note that the 
S.B. Tribune was wrong), when John Povey, associate director of the African Studies Center at UCLA and editor of Arts d'Afrique will speak at 7:30 
p.m. in Carroll Hall on "Negritude-a Root of Black Nationalism?" 
ND sports: How much myth and reality ? arc poured into it each fall. What part proud of both her academic excellence Saturday afternoon?What is the relationby Tim O'Meilia docs big time football play at an edu­and her athletic traditions. How are they between the student and the athletic This is the first of a five part cational institution? compatible? Why is an intellectual in-program? And if there is a legitimate series on Notre Dame athletics. A university grants scholarships to its stitution involved in the expensive busi-relationship, still another question re­students for the purpose of allowing a ness of intercollegiate football? mains. Assuming a university's loyalty is "In Elmer Layden's day he didn't certain number of them who could not What is the purpose of the admini­to its students, then why do they n,ot sit permit the athletes to call their scholar-otherwise obtain a college education. The stration in perpetuating a big time foof­on the SO-yard line. and why tiot at ships a "ride," because they weren't. The university does something very similar for ball and basketball program. Why do we midcourt?Why do the freshmen anti soph­football players had to pay a large part of its football and basketball players. Ath­not play on the same level as St. Joseph's omores at the basketball games ''get their fees and they all had jobs. Most of stuck" up in the upper arena in the them used to work in the dining halls. I bleachers? can remember one used to wait on my This series will attempt to answer those table." questions. And while we are interested in Those were the circumstances in the I the state of athletics across the nation, we early 1930's when Notre Dame's ticket are primarily concerned with what manager Robert M. Cahill was an under­happens :VI Notre Dame. graduate. lie has been ticket manager There has been much written and said since 1941 and has seen that inter­about the purpose of intercollegiate ath­collegiate athletics, particularly football, letics in the past few years. In his has changed immensely in almost 40 syndicated column which appears in the years. Sometimes there is a question as to Chicago Sun-Times Red Smith asked the whether it has changed for the better. question, "Why College Athletics? For No longer do universities req uirc an Profit, Of Course." There is always much athlete to work on the side to help earn discussion of the excesses in collegehis way through college. His time is too sports-how necessary is Alabama's much taken with athletics and classwork Bryant-Hilton and Alabama is not the to permit much leisure time. He has a ..z.......,.,.... ~,,. only one. How prcvclant are slush funds straight business deal with the ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Is it true athletes are full-time players anduniversity-his talent in exchange for a ~ ....... r\....m-'1 part-time students? college education. Ill 111 111 Ill Just how jock is a jock'!fhc overridingFootball is no longer in the same _ 11 Ill Ill 1\1 Ill question is how docs Notre Dame, which category with the other intercollegiate...._.,....,"""'"""" "---.. ·· _(-11..__ /has been envied and reverrcd throughoutathletics. In most cases, including Notre ~:U-.L.h~~~:::=::::::..:::.,c::/,...... ---...___________________________ the nation as a home of the student­Dame's, it must support the remainder of athlete and as possessor of one of the the athletic program as well as the huge most honest and legitimate athletic pro­athletic plants at virtually every uni­grams, measure up.versity across the country. To answer, the 0/JSHR VHR asked Oddly, the philosophy of athletics on questions of Athletic Director Moose the university level has not changed in Krause, Ticket Manager Robert Cahill,those 40 years. This series will attempt to Athletic Business Manager Herb Jones,discover whether the realities have Sports Information Director Rogerchanged and we are interested in how Valdiscrri, Executive Vice-President things arc done at Notre Dame. Edmund Joyce, Vice-President for Busi­Presumably the university is, first of ness Affairs Fr. J crome Wilson and several all, an educational institution. Con­others.letic ability is used as a bargaining point. of Rcnncslaer, Ind. Is such a grandiosesequently that leaves some question as to How much of Notre Dame is myth andflow can an academic community permit organization necessary to achieve what­why any school of higher education how much reality'! Why is football bigentrance to a student on the grounds of ever aims the university has in mind?should become involved in the very un­time?his football ability'!How dol's a university And if it can answer all these ques­academic business of intl'rcollcgiatc ath­justify an athletic grant-in-aid'! tions, how docs big lime footba·ll relate toletics, particularly to the point where the (Tomorrow 11'11.1' don't slllden ts There arc several more specific q ucs­the "average student." Is its whole pur­kickoff is the highlight of the week and sit 011 the 50-yard line7")tions which involve Notre Dame. She is pose to keep him out of trouble onwhere hundreds of thousands of dollars  

Page 2 Monday, February 17, 1969
THE OBSERVER 

,.--------------~---~-----------­
•



THE !Tops concert pulled off 1n the clutch 

EMPIRE BUILDERS 
are not exactly what we need. City builders are all we're looking for right at the moment. City builders, in our language, are engineers. And a growing city like Milwaukee needs plenty of those. If you are one, we need you to design streets, sewers and structures, to supervise construction, to try your hand in one (or maybe all --if you stay around a while) of the many departments of local government concerned with building a GREAT city. 
Our interviewer will be on your campus soon. Your placement office can tell you when. 
by Ted Price 

Maybe you were lucky enough to hear before you went to the Morris Civic--many were not and were left standing outside while the Student Union did its thing and managed to present the Four Tops in concert under conditions known affectionately as "Clutch." The whole snafu opened with an emergency telephone call to Lo11 Lanwermeyer, Student Union Social Commissioner. 
"I was sound asleep about I0:30 Saturday when the phone ran~ and the Notre Dame 
-------, 
Foreign Car Service and Parts ... For All Makes and Models... IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 



Miller 
makes it right! 
operator called and said that I had a message to call Tharon Hill in Chicago," said Lanwermeyer. Hill is the road manager for the Four Tors, and when he called five hours before a date, Lan wermeyer figured something was wrong. 
-OESER VER ___ JNSJGH'l' 
Lanwermeyer called the Union's agents, College Entertainment Agency, and spoke to Stan Rubin, who had originally negotiated the contract. Rubin informed him that the Tops had been in Los Angeles the previous night taping the Hollywood Palace show and that they had left their sheet music at the studio. 
Lanwermeyer arranged for the music to be flown to Chicago with an emergency priority and then phoned the group there and told them that it was on the way. He also added that the contract was "solid", that is it could not be broken. 
He dispatched Ed Zawacki, the Student Union's concert chairman to Chicago via Cessna 337, chartered from Stockert Flying Service of South Bend. 
Zawacki arrived in Chicago and located the Four Tops in a room at the Holiday Inn ncar O'Hare. He said that the group refused to leave Chicago until they actually had the music in their hands. 
"I told them that the music was due in about three and that there was no reservation available on any flight to South Bend after that." Two more aircraft were chartered, this time from Executive Charter at O'Hare. 
Zawacki returned to the airport and saw the operations manager of the airfreight service there. He briefed him on the situation and otherwise persuaded him that it was an emergency. As soon as the plane was at the gate, Zawacki and the manager were in its belly searching for the music. 
"We finally found it, two boxes weighing almost fifty pounds apiece," he said. "These I grabbed and ran to the Stockert plane." 

Meanwhile, the Four Tops had boarded their planes but found that there was no room for IIi!!. So Hill had to go with Zawacki. But somehow, Hill's attache case didn't make it. 
"We taxied back from the runway to the hangar and found the case. From there, back to the lineup waiting for takeoff, and we were finally airborne on our way to South Bend." 
When the squadron landed at St. Joe International, they were met by several police cars and a nearly apoplectic Lou Lanwermeyer. The Four Tops were hustled into the police cars, along with all their music, instruments, road manager and his briefcase. 
The concert went on at 4:35, late enough to make the audience's temper rather ugly, But according to several people who were there, the concert was "real good". 
According to Wade, the entire operation cost in the neighborhood of $500, but there has been no figure released on the damage to health of several Union officials. He said that the Tops would cover all extra expenses. 
Riot and calm mixed on campuses 
SAN FRANCISCO (UPI)-A homemade bomb exploded in :he administration building at San Francisco State College early yesterday, shattering the calm that had returned to the nation's troubled campuses over 
Assoc. Dean Childress 
St. Louis U. Law School 
Interviewing Students 
Tuesday, Feb~ 18 254 CCE 
Sign-Up 101 O'Shag 
the v..eekend. The building was extensively damaged in the blast and a campus security officer was injured. 
At the University of \Visconsin, Gov. Warren P. Knowles toured buildings on the fringe of the campus where National guardsmen called out last week to maintain order have been quartered and told the militiamen they were doing "a good job." 
The guardsmen at Wisconsin withdrew from the campus Friday at the request of Chancellor H. Edwin Young. 

A group of black students at Duke barricaded themselves in the university's administration auilding for several hours Thursday to dramatize a list of 13 demands, including 
American Studies department 

after accusing the university of 
dragging its feet in selecting 
someone. The group, which held 
Ford Hall for II days last 
month, said they would choose a 

candidate and present his name 
to the dean of the faculty. 
Things remained quiet at the 
University of Massachusetts, 

scene of a protest against 
recruiting on the campus last 
week b-y Dow Chemical Co. 
Electricity fails Late Sat. night 
Last Saturday night Notre Dame students and their guests suffered through a campus 
an on 

power failure. This was a first at 
campus black dormitory, a

MANY !MITATIONS Notre Dame and placed it in the 
''Iiving learning" course for 

illustrious ranks of those colleges
African studies, an increase in 

that were part of the Eastern
No Substitutions 

enrollment of black students and 
seaboard black-out of a few 
a remedial program to help black 
years ago. 

students prepare for entrance to 
The almost total campus
the school. The protesters and 

black-out occurred in two stages.
their supporters clashed with 
At approximately 10:30 P.M. all 
police after the students left the 

the halls on the North Quad
building. 

except Keenan and Stanford 
The administration building at 
were blacked out. About fifteen 
the University of Chicago was 
minutes later, these two halls 
ordered closed for a week of 
plus all the halls on the Main 
cleaning and repairs of damage 

Quad were also blacked out. The 
university officials said was done 
effects of the black-out were felt 
by student protesters who ended 
in an area delineated on the 
their sit in Friday after 16 days. 
north by the North Dining Hall 
Officials said debris left behind 

and Stanford as Mardi Gras went and obscenities scrawled on the 
on Ltnhindered and on the south walls would cost thousands of 
by the main gate. 
THE ORIGINAL SPORTS C'AR 
dollars to remove. 

Power was restored to The University of Iowa 
Keenan-Stanford in a half-hour chapter of SDS, which has 
but was not restored to the rest 
see Jaguar George 
figured in many campus 
of the North Quad until four 
disorders, was placed on 
hours later. The Main Quad was 
at 
probation by a university without power for forty-fivecommittee and two students minutes. The reason for the 
were censured for participation delay is found in the fact that

PEPPERS I!VPORTED CARS, INC. 
in an unauthorized campus rally. 
when the main generatorsAt Brandeis University in became inoperative, it required a 
3105 West Sample Street 
Waltham, Mass., members of the certain amount of time before 
Afro American Society searched
South Bend, Indiana 
the auxiliary generators could for their own candidate to head build up to the capacity of the the new African and Afro main generators. 

TOP SALES & SERVICE FOR EUROPE'S FINEST AUTOMOBILES 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except 
Happy Birthday Mike 
vacations by the students of the
MG-Austin--Jaguar 
University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased 
FROM Susie, Pam, Betty, Sibylfor $10 from The Observer, Box 
MR, Eileen, Carolann, Nancy and11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556 second class postage paid, Notre 

Sally. Dame, Ind. 46556 
Monday, February 17, 1969 Page 3
THE OBSERVER. 



············The Mail··········· 
Editor: 
In regards to Mr. Rossie's recent apology to the black basket ball players for I he "incident" suring MSU game: We reserve our right to boo whom we please and for the reasons we so choose. Furthermore, we feel Mr. Rossie did in no way represent us as memhcrs of the Student Body. 
Respectfully, 
Raymond F. Role 
(;)cnn S. Valenta 
-70 
Alvin J. DuCharme M ichacl Munsch 69 

Editor: 
"We're No. I" is Notre Dame's constant cry ... when winning. "You blew it, team," is 
Notre Dame's retort when losing. 
Notre Damers, a really "winning" lea 111 has student support whether or not they win the game. When playing, each member of the team represents you and your school, and therefore is an extension of yourself. 
You boo yourselves when you degrade your team. Yours, Chris flail Barb Schlcck 
K.T. Cannon 
Editor: 

Notre Dame life has given me much , i n clu ding 111 y first relationships with the Black American, and I learned that he is the same as me. Yct now, I am subject to a demand which may even be termed "ridiculous" due to the circumstances. 
First of all, there was "booing" last Tues. night, and it was vehement. But it was directed at Coach Dec, not the players. llell, I did not realize there were five Black players on the court until just reading the OBSERVER. It so happens that I was wrapped-up in the game-not a racial issue! 
Second, consider the night of January 15, when Spencer Haywood was here. lie received an enormous ovation, one of appreciation for his efforts while representing our country in Mexico. Also reflect upon the standing ovation given Austin Carr. Both of these enthusiastic acclamations were given because the two players were great in their sport. I do not think race had anything to do with these at all. But the other nite, everything went wrong, so right away, the racial issue arises. Well, not so, my brothers! If the Black men here, after thinking about the examples given above, think that the students booed the players because of race, then they arc blind! 
I, for one, will not apologize for something I did not do, and I hope our basketball team, now reduced in size, and more so in strength, will win, and win big, this coming Saturday. 
Respectfully, 
Jay McDonnell 
161 Alumni 

What are some ol America's most creative scientists, engineers and mathematicians doing in the vacationland or North Jersey so close to New York CitY 

Advancing the power of peace ... by maintaining the nation's leadership in munitions, missiles, rockets and special weapons systems. This is the mission of Picatinny Arsenal, a vitally important research and engineering center within the Army Materiel Command. 
Today's projects cover the entire spectrum of ad· vanced technologies. Picatinny technical people are leaders in their fields -their assistance is sought by industry in cooperative applications of research and engineering. Their papers can be found in the leading technical publications. 
Plcatlnny Arsenal offers you •n unusual opportunity to adtnmce In your chosen field of reseerch and engineering. 
Consider the career advantages: an excellent salary program with full Federal Civil Service benefits. paid graduate education programs, a·nd a wide array of modern laboratories and test facilities. 
Picatinny, readily accessible to some of the coun· try's finest engineering schools, is ideally situated in the lakelands of Northern New Jersey. The area is unparalleled for family living and recreation. 
We have a challenge waiting for graduates at all degree levels in 0 MECHANICAL ENGINEERING 0 INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING 0 CHEMICAL ENGINEERING 0 ELECTRICAL and ELECTRONIC ENGINEERING 0 PHYSICS and MATHEMATICS 
A Picatinny Representative will be on campus with the U. S. Army Materiel Command Interviewers ( February 24 ). Arrange for an interview through your Placement Office. If unable to ar•ange an mterview 
write: 
Mr. C. F. Ogden Civ11ian Personnel Divis1on P1catinny Arsenal Dover, New Jersey 07801 

UAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYMENT IN THE FEDERAL CAREER CIVIL SERVICE 
U S. CUizensh1p R•qu/red 



YOU'RE STILL LOSING MONEY? 
YOU'VE GOT ONE MORE NIGHT TO BE A WINNER 

rJtonday, February 17, 19G9
Page 4 
THE OBSERVER 

'Boo-Birds'hibernate,cagers explode 
By PETE BRUDERLE 
Observer Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's flickering chances for an at-large NCAA tournament bid received a much needed shot in the arm Saturday, as Johnny Dee's forces thumped the Aggies of Utah State 108-82. 
With nary a boo to be heard the entire afternoon, the Irish mounted their finest offensive effort of the season as four starters topped twenty points and a healthy Jackie Meehan cleverly quarterbacked the attack. As Dee put it on national television after the game, "We're where we wanted to be at the start of the season." 
Bob Whitmore was high scorer with 26, 22 in the second half, while Austin Carr added 25 and Arnzen and Murphy totaled 21 each. All five starters earned a 

Irish cagers assault records 
CAREER SCORING *Tom Hawkins 1820 Bob Arnzen 1573 Bob Whitmore 1486 CAREER FG% *Larry Sheffield .438 Arnzen 631-1297 .486 Whitmore 572-1203 .475 SEASON FT% *John McCarthy .846 Mike O'Connell .828 CAREER FT% *McCarthy 278-357 .779 Arnzen 311-385 .808 *denotes all time record holder 


standing  ovation  when  they  · showed  signs  of  rcgammg  the  cushion  at  11:44  through  the  
exited late in the second half.  touch  that  makes him Johnny  second  stanza.  The  Irish  
Sporting  an  offensive  Dee's  top  offensive  threat.  continued to burn at a 63% clip  
allignment  which  saw  Dwight  Whitmore  and  Murphy  were  in  piling up  69  points for  the  
Murphy playing  a  high post  as  particularly vindictive combining  half. John Pleick took a behind  
center-forward,  the  Irish  ran  for  a  21  for  40  shooting  the back pass from Tom Dinnott  
often  and  well.  Austin  Carr,  afternoon.  for the century mark.  
though  still  at  three-quarters  Ahead only 39-31  at the half,  State's  6-8  super-soph  Marv  
speed,  added  12  rebounds and  Notre Dame exploded to a 68-43  Roberts  from  Brooklyn,  N.Y.  

Wisconsin skaters too much 
The Irish icers ventured north for the weekend and suffered two more defeats at the hands of the powerful Wisconsin Badgers, 5-l and 10-2. Notre Dame's record now reads 13-7-3, four of the set-backs resulting from Wisconsin. On Jan. 30-31, the Badgers humiliated Notre Dame 10-2 and 12-0. 
Friday night in Milwaukee, the Irish went out and astounded 3,724 fans by out-playing their foes for twenty minutes. John Roselli fed Jim Cordes for a score at 17:31 and the defense allowed the Badgers a mere IS shots on goal. Notre Dame harried Wisconsin goalie Bob Droman with 12 shots and left the ice leading 1-0. 
Things reverted to normal at 
8: 14 of the second period when Bert DeHate, Dave Smith, and Jim Boyd vaulted Wisconsin into the lead by scoring three goals within the amazing time span of 21 seconds. Smith's goal came only two seconds after DeHate's. During the second 20 minutes, Irish netminder Dick Tomasoni made 25 saves and never really 

PIZZA HUT 
N.D. Beer Night 

-Every Monday 7:30-1 A.M. $1 pitcher 
Pizza Smorgasbord 
-Every Monday and Tuesday 5:30-7:30 All you can eat plus one soft drink $1.35 
Carry Out ... Check Discount Rates for your hall and club parties 
No. 1 1738 Lincolnway East 288-6060 No. 2 2307 E. Edison 233-3827 
had a chance on any of the five Badger goals. The other two came in the third period on deflected shots. Tomasoni was brilliant in the nets, ultimately turning away 59-64 shots, an excellent percentage of.922. 
Friday's game was marked by 14 penalties and set the stage for Saturday's rough--and-tumble match in Madison. The Irish were out-scored but never out-hit, as 16 penalties were whistled. The highlight came at IS: 53 of the second period when NO's Phil Wittliff and Mike Collins took on Dick Klipsic and Dave Smith. All four players received 5-minute fighting penalties and were exiled from the game. 
Before he left, Wittliff scored one of the two Irish goals, at 
17:04 of the first period. Joe Bonk hit the cords earlier at 3:59, but by that time, ND was already down 2-0. Wisconsin left the ice after twenty minutes with a 4-2 lead. 
Dick Tomasoni had only 43 shots on goal compared to Friday's 64, but his percentage 
was much lower, .769. The Irish offense was even less effective, 

Mudron cops 
championship 
Pat Mudron was the only member of the Notre Dame wrestling squad to win a divisional championship in the Wheaton Invitational this past weekend. In doing so Mudron won 3 matches, one over Dave Krepic of Elmhurst another over Walt Kummerow of North Park College and the first place match over Dave Harper of the host team. Mudron was competing, of course, in the heavyweight class. 
The only other ND grappler 
to reach the finals was 
123-pound Keith Giron, who 
was defeated by Bill Whitehead 
of Dubuque, 3-1. Giron had 
advanced with a 4-2 triumph 
over Dave Anderson of 
Augustana in the semifinals. 
putting only 14 shots on goal. That figure almost matched the number of shots taken at Wisconsin during the first period on Friday's contest. 
Notre Dame actually played well over the weekend. The Badgers are a class ahead of the Irish in skating speed, passing, and defense. And Notre Dame definitely improved over their previous losses to the Badgers. The Irish get a chance to rebound on Tuesday night against Lake Forest College. The next home game is scheduled for Feb. 28 against Gustavus Adolphus. 

Irish tap 
new coach 
John Counsell, 1964 Notre Dame baseball captain who signed a five-figure contract with the Minnesota Twins upon his graduation, has been named assistant baseball coach at the University by Athletic Director Edward W. Krause. 
The 26-year-old Counsell spent four seasons in the Twins' Class A farm system, before asking for his release in 1967. 
An outfielder who led the Midwest League in assists with 26 in 1966, Counsell had his best year at the plate that season with a .254 average and 51 runs batted in at Wisconsin Rapids. The previous fall h~ hit .297 in the Florida Instructional League. 
In his last year of professional baseball, Counsell hit .245 for pennant winning Orlando in the Florida State League. 
A defensive gem as a three-year starter at Notre Dame, the native of Oconomowoc, Wisconsin had his best season as a junior in 1963. That year he hit .350 in addition to collecting five hits in the last Irish appearnace in a NCAA baseball tournament. 
Counsell succeeds Tom Kelly as Jake Kline's assistant. Kelly is now assistant director of intramural and club sports at the Universi ty. 
ND Relay unit wins at Garden 
Notre Dame's two-mile relay team won that event at the Knights of Columbus Track Meet on last Friday night. Mike McCann, Joe Quigley, Mark Walsh, and Rick Wohlhuter rounded the Madison Square Garden track in 7:35.6. Bill Hurd finished second to Kentucky sophomore Jim Greene in the 60-yard dash. Greene won the event in 0:06.2 after taking his semi-final heat in a sizzling 0:06.6 
lived up to his billing as the 
nation's number six leading scorer. Though somewhat timid on defense and rebounding, Roberts scored from in and out on a variety of shots for his 35 points. 
The only question left now is which tournaments the Irish will hear from. Convincing wins this week, tonight against Butler and especially in New York on Thursday against N.Y.U., could earn some friendly glances form NCAA officials when they convene to name at-large selections next week. 
In any case the Irish are sure to hear from the N.I.T. and a trip to Fun City would assure at least a two game set. A first round loss at Carbondale in the NCAA would end it all, but a first round win might well give the Irish a second shot at Kentucky. And if Saturday was any indication of what is to come, a second matchup might not prove as frustrating as what took place in Louisville over the Christmas holidays. 
NOTRE DAME 

PLAYER  FG  FT  RBTP  
Carr  8-19  9-10  12 25  
Meehan  2-5  0-0  2  4  
Whitmore  11-20 4-6  10 26  
Arnzen  9-16  3-3  13 21  
Murphy  10-20 1·1  9  21  
Jones  0-2  1-3  5  1  
Sinnott  0-0  0-0  1  0  
O'Connell  0-1  2-2  0  2  
Hinga  2-2  0-0  2  4  
Pleick  1-5  2-2  4  4  
TOTALS  43-90 22-27 70 108  

UTAH STATE PLAYER FG FT RB TP 
Roberts 15-25 5-10 8 35 Ericksen 3-9 3-5 10 9 Tollestrup 1-3 1-1 3 3 Epps 3-11 1-4 7 7 Jeppesen 1-14 2-3 6 4 Graham 2-5 7-12 4 11 Jefferson 2-7 1-2 8 5 Bean 1-2 0-0 0 2 
Marriott 1-4 0-0 0 2 Wade 2-3 0-0 0 4 TOTALS 31-83 20-37 51 82 
PERCENTAGES ND FG's 49% FT's 81% US FG's 37% FT's 54% 

W. Michigan beaches ND 
Coach Dennis Stark's swimmers found it tough going again this weekend as a rugged Western Michigan squad beached the Irish 67-46 Friday night at Rockne Pool. "We knew they were tough, but they were tougher than we thought:' Stark remarked. 
The Broncos took 9 of I 3 events in boosting their record to 7-4. Notre Dame is now 5-2. 
Reid Lichenfels took his specialty in the one meter diving, while Freshman John Fahey lowered his varsity 200 yard butterfly mark again, this time .6 seconds to 2:08.2. 
John May added a win in the 100 yard freestyle in the quick time of 49.7. Notre Dame's other first came in the 400 yard freestyle-relay which saw Vince Spohn, Iom Hock, Bill Ladouceur, and Captain John May combine for a new meet record of 3:22.8. 
Tomorrow night the Irish travel to Mount Pleasant to meet Central Michigan. They return to action at home on Saturday against Northwestern. 





