
Student Life Council meets 1n• first session; denies McKenna's move for student chairman 

lkware of the myth of a rnt•llowing soviet leadership and powt•r is still the only thing that can hold Soviet expansionism such are the major messages that emerge from an article by Stephen Kertes7, director of Notre Dame's Institute for International Studies for July"s issue of Current History. 
Kertesz wrote the article in defense of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and against those who feel the time is ripe for a reshaping of the organi1.ation, changing its ddensc character. 
As tht· Notre Dame political scientist sees it, NATO was formed as a protection for Western Furopean countries against Soviet aggression. And as Russia's characteristic foreign policy that of territorial expansionism, docs not seem to he changing, there is little hope thai military cutbacks by NATO in l:urope would he reciprocated by I he Soviets. Indeed, the power vacuum created in Furopc by such cutbacks. says Kertesz, would "play into the hands of Kn•mlin hawks." 
Wishful thinking has caused many Westerners to feel that Sovil'l ll'<Hlers want to follow a policy of rapprochement with 111e U.S .. hut that U.S. military involvements make this Jmrwssible, says Kertesz. They fct•l "that NATO's military strenglh is no longer necessary." 
By way of response, Kt·rtesz s u g g c s t s, " Few o h s c r vc rs undcr~tand thl' hard fads of life in tht• li.S.S.K." 
"It ~hould be noted." ht• 

explains, "that territorial expansionism has been a permanent characteristic of Russian foreign policy. Since I500 Russia expanded whenever a power vacuum arose along her borders." 
Using the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia as a guide, the one-time Hungarian minister to Italy adds that "Moscow would easily find ostensible justification for intervention in West Europe if the old continent wcr..: to become a power vacuum." 
As for the Soviet's march on Czechoslovakia lit tie over a year ago, Kertesz charged that the Soviet Union formulated the statement spelling out the Soviet right to enter into the affairs of socialist countries only after they tried unsuccessfully to find Czech leaders willing to say that the Soviets were invited. In effect then, implies the political scientist, if no power is present to prevent Soviet Imperialism, 
they  will  move  and  find  
justifications  for  the  action  
afterwards.  

The industrial richness of Wt~stern l~urope and the lack of ser1ous natural obstacles bet ween Soviet held lands and the Atlantic Ocean make the thought of reducing NATO strength even more ominous, writes Kertesz. And Soviet intncst in an all-1-:uropean conference a conference that would exclude the United States and Canada arc to bt• carefully eyed. Says Kertes1, "without Amt•rican participation in Furopean affairs thert• would he no halancc bel ween West l·:urope and the ltuge Soviet empire." 
"Although the United States did not seek the responsibility for the defense of Europe," con c I udes the writer, "the abandonment of this responsibility would seriously threaten United States security interests and world peace. Without NATO, West Europe would (most probably) become a huge power vacuum,"-and bring with it, the author implies, disastrous effects. 
Lottery ticket sign -up tonight 
Registration for the lottery of the 300 N.D.-Purdue football tickets available for students will lake place tonight from 7-9 in the Fiesta Lounge on the 2nd floor of the Student Union, announced Service Commissioner Bob Pohl yesterday. 
A\:cording to Pohl the lottery 

results from the fact that many 
fewer tickets than were 
anticipated were sent from 
Purdue for N.D. and SMC 
students. 
Bids for the tickets will be 

accepted until the Tuesday night 
9 o'clock deadline and then will 
be entered into a computer 
rather than the traditional hat, 
says the commissioner. Bidders 
will he notified Thursduy of the 
results. 
Registrants at the lottery can bid on a ticket alone or a ticket with the bus trip to Purdue. Winners will pay $7.00 for the game or $13.50 for the entire trip. 
"The Student Life Council
by Dave Fromm 
recommends to the President of
Professor James L. Massey of 
the University that the
the Elect rica I Engineering 
publication of the Juggler be
Department was elected 
assured of continued
chairman of the Student Life 
sponsorship by the University."
Council (SLC) at its first 
A mandate followed the
meeting yesterday afternoon in 
declaration:
the Center for Continuing 
"The chairman of the Student
Education. Other nominees for 
Life Council is mandated to send
the chair were Assistant 
copies of this bill to: the
Professor of Physics Rev. James 
Chairman of the Board of
L. Shilts CSC, and Fred Dedrick, 
Trustees, the President of the
Student Body Vice President. 
University, the Vice Presidents
Dedrick automatically became 
of the University, the Editors of
the new vice chairman as he was 
all student publications, and the
the sole nominee for that office. 
Chairman of the Department of
The selection of a new secretary 
English."
will take place next week. 
However, Rev. Charles I.
Before the election, Student 
McCarragher, Vice President for
Body President Phil McKenna, 
Student Affairs, felt that the
speaking for the eight student 
SLC shouldn't have even
delegates to the Council, 
considered the hill since student
requested thut the new chairman 
pub I i cations fall under his 
be a student member of the 

jurisdiction.
council. His rationale for the 
McCarragher wrote Juggler
request was that any body 
editor Michael Patrick O'Connor 
whose major concern is students 
early in the summer and said: " .
should be led by students. 
. . I have information from
However, Rev. James I. 
Father Hesburgh's office, but
Burtchaell CSC, Chairman of 
not fully resolved, that he thinks
and Assistant Professor in the 
we should close the Juggler next
Department of Theology, felt 
year ..." 
that the chairman has 
O'Connor then contacted
"insignificant political power on 
Hesburgh and demanded an
the council." 

explanation.
McKenna also asked that the 
new secretary be a student non-member of the SLC and receive some sort of salary. The entire Council seemed to agree with McKenna. 
Massey felt that the job would be a good opportunity for a student in financial need. Stating that he felt the Observer gave the SLC excellent coverage last year, Massey expressed a belief that a student could properly handle the job. 
The election of a secretary was tabled until next week's 


meeting when both Massey and 
The New SLC Chairman,
Dedrick are to present a list of Professor James Massey

candidates. Should no students show an interest in the job, Dean In a September 5th response, of Students Rev. James L. Hesburgh told O'Connor: " ... Riehle CSC, offered to serve as First of all, I would like to say secretary. that the discontinuation of tht• 
Minutes before the meeting Juggler did not originate with adjourned the body passed a bill me ... You may wish to discuss which endorsed continued this whole matter further with publication of the Juggler, the Father McCarragher and that, of University's literary magazine. course, is perfectly legitimate, The bill included a declaration since it is his area ..." which read: (continued on paqe 21 
Student Union decides change ticket policy 
The Student Union reversed a tickets from the Notre Dame long standing policy last night ticket office for away football and released for salt' in the games. A set number of the student lottery SO tickets for tickets, anywhere from 25 to SO, Sal urday's game against Purdue were then set aside for reserved which were ht•ing held for sale to Union officials. The rest special sale to the Student Union of the tickets were made staff. available, usually through 
Student Union director lottery, to l he rest of the Dt·nnis Clark expluined that the student hody. move was made to eliminate Clark said that a student had what he termt~d was an inherent approached him yesterday "inc:quity" in the: system as it afternoon and remarked that he was run in the past. felt that the system was unfair. 
In former years, the Student "We realited then," Ch1rk Union ohtained a set numhcr of (conlinued on paqe 41 
PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1969 
Food director wants better understanding 
University, said that he was prime objectives will be to lie is critical of the monotony tolerant, in such a sit ual ion," he
by Timothy Treanor 

embarking on an efficil·ncy develop a better rapport afforded by eating constantly in told the Obsc'fi'Cf. Ed rnund T. Price, the campaign dt:signed to make be!wt:en the cafrteria staff and the same place. Presently. girls arc allowed in 
recently-appointed director of Notre Dame food services, announded iQ an interview with the Obserl'cr that he will key his administration towards "trying to reach a better understanding with the student." 
Price, a Cornell alumnus who servect as a general managt:r of Central and Highland Rcsidenct' Towers at Memphis Stat~ mealtime more amenable to Notrt: Dame students. 

To thai end, he has plans to install complt:te self-bussing in the North Dining llall. Allhough the plans wt:re originally to go into effect September 12, technical problems will delay implement:.Jtion until an indefinite date in the futurl'. 
Price promises that one of his the students they serve. "Attitude has a lot to do with food service. We try to instill in them (tht: cafeteria staff) a dt:sire to please the student." 
He further suggested that staft 
workers  generally  respond  
favorably  to  student-generated  
praise.  "They'll  knock  

themselves out," he said, "if you say something nice to them." 
August grants total $103,800 
Notre Dame accepted $103,800 in grants to aid research and educational programs during the month of August. 
Th.e grants for research aid totaled $10 I ,700, and include: 
$30,500 from the National Science Foundation for the study of "Thermal stresses in cylindri­cal shells with cutouts" by Dr. Teoman Ariman, associate pro­fessor of aerospace and mechani­cal engineering. 
$10,000 from the Office of Civil Defense (OCD) for a fellow­ship directed hy Patrick Hors­brugh, visiting professor of archi­tecture. 
$7,300 from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) for a research fellowship directed by Dr. George B. Craig, Jr., professor of biology. 
-$5,300 from the NIH for a research fellowship diret:ted by Dr. Harvey A. Bender. professor of biology. 
$5,100 from the Federal Water Pollution Control Adminis­tration for the study of "Phos­
phate removal in activated sludge systems" by Mark W. Tenney, assoc;ate professor of civil 
BLOW 
with plastic frame $4 ($7 .95 value) Send any black &white or color photo up to s·· x 10'" (no negatives) and the name "Swingline·• cut from any Swingline stapler or staple ref~ I package to: Poster-Mart. P. 0. Box 165, Woodside, N.Y. 11377. Enclose cash, check or money order (no C.O.D.'s) in the amount of $2.00 for each blow-up; $4.00 for blow-up and frame as shown. Add sales tax where applicable. Original material returned undamaged. Satisfac· tlon guaranteed. Allow 30 days for delivery. 


THE GREAT SWINGLINE 
TOT~TAPLER 
The world's largest selling stapler yet no larger than a pack of gum. ONLY 91¢ with 1000 FREE staples! 
~~ ~ --~.. THE GREAT NEW ~ SWINGLINE 
~"UB®HANo&
\1 DESK STAPLERS 

ONLY $1.69 each. ~ With 1000 staples Lf , only $1.98 each. 
s.---·---~---· 
l2.00Sl~.Y.1t~l~; 
engineering. 
$5,000 from the Union Carbide Corporation for grant­in-aid to research directed by Dr. Julius T. Banchero, professor of chemical engineering. 
-$5,000 from the lloward V. Phalin Foundation for a graduate fellowship. 
$5,000 from the American Chemical Society's Petroleum Research Fund, and $2,500 from the Mobil Foundation, Inc. for programs directed by Dr. JamcsJ. Carberry, professor of chemical engineering. 
$5,000 from the OCD for a fellowship directed hy Dr. John 

W. Lucey, associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
$5,000 from the Miles Laboratory, Inc. and $5,000 from the Ames Company and the Miles Laboratory, Inc. to support biochemistry and biophysics in the department of chemistry. 
Juggler backed 
(continued from page 1) 

But for unknown reasons, O'Connor failed to see McCarragher. 
"The Juxgter has not been phased out; the funds for it are there," said McCarragher. "They have just been temporarily suspended." 
And McCarraghcr said that they will not be reinstated until "we know where the Juxglcr is going." 
"Michael should have come to me to discuss the publication's future," said the Vice President. McCarragher wanted to know whether people were interested in ttie magazine and whether people were writing for it. 
Although the SLC's bill calls for continued publication of the Juggler, the final decision still rests with Father McCarragher. How much the SLC's action will influence his decision remains to 

be seen. ____________________________________________________ 
EVERYBODY 
WANTS IT 
Send in this coupon if you want to learn how to earn a great deal of money for yourself while operating your own exclusive franchise on campus distributing Audio-Lites. 

NAME SCHOOL ADDRESS CITY STATE ZIP 
MAIL TO: 

American College Distributing Corp. 
P.O. Box 636, De Kalb, Ill. 60115 
$5,000 from the Miles Laboratory for research in the department of microbiology and Lobund Laboratory. 
$4,000 from the Indiana Hospital Service, Inc. for research directed by Dr. James M. Dasch­bach, associate professor of aero­space and mechanical engineer­ing. 
$2,000 from the Littauer 
Foundation, Inc. for research on 
drug addiction by Dr. (;eorge N. 
Shuster, professor of English. 

In the area of educational pro­grams, $2, I 00 was received from the Western Electric Company for a shcolarship fund. 
Foreign studies program begins 
A total of 4 7 architecture and art students at Notre Dame are inaugurating a foreign studies program in Rome th:s fall. 
The program, open to third-year art students and four th-year architecture stu­dents, is intended to give them an awareness of the art and architectural values of Rome and of other European cities which the students will visit, according to Prof. Frank Montana, chair­man of the architecture depart­ment. 
Students will reside at the Hotel Raganclli, about four miles from the center of Rome where studio facilities will be located. The faculty will include Notre Dame professors from campus and Italian professors in architecture and language. 

Montana and Prof. Robert J. Schiltz of architecture will teach :luring the first semester, and Profs. Otto Seder and Ray ?tuenrer Juring the second. The .~ev. J: mes F. Flanigan, C.S.C., assHaJ.t p:ofessor of art, will be tearhin3 in Rome the entire year. 
"I would like to hold special nights there," Price said, referring to the two dining halls. He specifically mentioned a Hawaiian night and a Roaring Twenties night, both of which had been held at Memphis State during his tenure there. 
"l·:veryt hing depends on the student. We are here to serve him," he said. "What else can we do?" He hopes that the food administration committee will st'l up the necessary machinery for such a project. 
Price admits that this is the first all-male campus he has served. He frankly prefers coeducational eating arrangements. "Everyone seems to be more pleasant, more 
the South Dining llall. However, the doors of the North Dining Hall retm:in dosed to the distaff side. II e denies the persistent rumor that the South Dining Ilall has seven accredited chefs to none for the North. "I don't know what you mean by 'accretlited chef'," he said, "but we haw Captain. first, second, and third classifications and there is no significant difference in the quantity of classification between the halls." Price, 48, ha~ been residence halls administrator at the University of California at Davis and has taken part in tht· lJ n i ve rsity of California statewide planning for student housing and feeding. 

Student UN delegates will convene in April 
A l'loor battle over tht' seating of Red China and a full-blown internalional crisis will highlight the Model Unill'd Nations to he held in the Stepan Center in April. 
Some 400 student delegates from St. ~.1ary's. Notre Dame and Indiana University in Snuth Bend will be partiripating as members of the delegations of 126 different nations plus a "shadow delegation" representing the Chinese communists. 
Notification of dates fur dek>;!ation registration will he for1 •vming within the nexI few weeks hy flyer, according to chairman Mike Kelly. 
Students desiring delegate positions will be asked their first five preferences a~ to country. They will also he permitted to select the nations they refuse to serve as representatives. 
Kelly said delegation appoin1­ments would be awarded on a first come, first served basis. Fee will be $3. 
There will be a mplt' time prior to the convention for the dele­gations. each with a three­member representation. to de­velop diplomacy and strategy. 
Kelly also said that block meetings, for example, the NATO countries, Warsaw Pact countries, and other arrange­ments, will he scheduled before the Modrl UN actually convenes. 
During the convention legisla­tion will be considered, as well as the seating of Red China. An explosive international crisis will be presented by way of press release. Delegates will be ex­pected to make strategy moves to solve the crisis. 
The Model UN is sponsored once every four years by the Academic Commission. This year's convention's executive coordinator is Mike Kendall, finanace ·director senior Kevin McCarthy. delegations director senior Tim Walch. 
In charge of arrangements are junior Joe Polito, and sopho­mores Tom McCowan and Jay Sullivan. Comptroller is senior Jim Krumme. 

Seniors to elect Fellow 
Michael Kelly, C'hairma n of this year's Senior Fellow Com­mittee, urged all members of the Class of 1970 to send nomina­
tions  for  the  Senior  Fellow  to  
his committee.  
Kelly  announced  that  his  

committee would revive the class-wide poll for the fellow, which was discontinued in 1969 after several embarassing inci­dents in which it became public knowledge that the final re­ceivers of the award were not the first choices of the class. 
INTERNATIONAL 
STUDENTS 
ORGANIZATIONAL 
MEETING 
Tues. Sept. 23 
Room 1-C 
7:30p.m. Student Center 
This stemmed from the tradition of having the person receiving the award come to Notre Dame to be given it. 
This year's committee will at­tempt to prevent such an oc­curence and yet give the class a voice in the selection by means of a preferential poll, the results of which will be known to the committee only. 
Kelly feels that the diverse political make-up of the com­mittee will prevent any attempts to ignore the desires of the class in regards to those high vote­getters who arc able to con.e to Notre Dame. 
Kelly also announced that for­mer Stay Senator Robert Rigney and former Associate Academic Commissioner Steve O'Brien will serve as co-chairmen to the Sen­ior Fellow Committee. 
Nominations for the 1970 Senior Fellow should be sent to: Michael Kelly, 420 Breen-Phil­lips Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage ~aid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 


TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23 1 9 
PAGE 3 
Nixon board studies labor tension 
Wi\SIIIN<d"ON (lJI'I) Presi­
dent Nixon YL'SIL·rday created a 
comrnission of labor. industry 
and government representatives 
to deal wrth ~trife and tension in 
till' construction industry. lie 
authorized it to intcrcedt• in any 
labor dispute likely to have "sig­
nificant impact" on construct­
ion. 
Nixon said till' commission 
will not forn· compulsory <~rhi­
tration or l1111it the right to 
strike or lock out. lie explaim·d 
rn an L'Xccutivc order, it is 
"lll'~rgrwd to· dt•vclop voluntary 
Irrpartilc pron·durcs to he 
followL'd 111 the scttlemt•nl of 
disputes over the terms of 
n>lkdi\'l' bargaining agrt•emenls 
in the construction industry 
involving the standard labor and 
nranagement organizations." 
Tht• commission, named the 
<'onstrudion Industry Collectiw 
Bargaining commission and 
h eadcd by l.ahor St•rretary 
Ceorge I' Shultz, will he 
composL·d of four 
rt•prL'sentatrvcs from labor, four 
from industry, two from tht• 
puhliL· at large, plus Shultl and 
Director J. Curtis Counts of thL' 
l:cdt•ral Mcdi1:tion and 
Corll·iliation Service. 
Two week delay 
. ' 

at pnnter s for photo book 
·1 he Notre Dame-Sarnl rVIary's 
Freshmen photograph hook will 
he delivcn·d at least two weeks 
later than expeded this year. 
The reason for the delay, 
according to the printer, is that 
the hook was more drfficull to 
publish than he anticipated. It 
will takt.• hron upwards of 6 
weeks to produce it, rather than 
tht• t•xpectcd 4 weeks. 
The book will be 200 pages 
long, and will be distributed at 
the dining halls sometime later 
in Sertemht.•r. 
Thirty one per cent of the bargaining in this sector," the a 30 day cooling off period labor contract settlements in the President said. 
hefon· a strike or lockout is construction industry so far this Nixon said the commission "is called. In addition, Nixon said, year were preceded by strikes. authori.lcd to intercede in any the commission may seck to he said, compared with 13 labor dispute in the construction mediate labor disputes or perct·nt for industry as a whole. industry whenever in its investigate them and recommend judgment the labor dispute is 
solutions. 
"Labor management relations likt•ly lo have a significant ,----------------'------------------1 
in the construdion industry 
impact on construction activity
reflect numerous signs of strife 
in a locality."
and tensions and the national 
Also, he said, it is authorized 

interest requires an improvement 
to develop a voluntary
in the procedures and 
proct·d urc under which labor 
performance of coll.ective 
and manag,:ment would observe 
New approach to sex 
COURSES AND LEADERS 

Your Name and Course Re.~ume to: 
Box 66 SMC or Rick Libowitz c/o ND Student Gov't. 
The sophomore class is looking for persons to work & possibly head the following committees: 
Big Brother Soph. Volunteers Yearbook Supplement Communkations Dating Service Mardi Gras 
Non-Football Weekends Class Council Special Events 
Contact Joe Stankus at 3176 or 3178 
NI·:W YORK (UPI) Young people have a new and ht•alt hier approach to sex that should he of grt•at value to their more inhibitt•d elders, according to John D. Rockefeller Ill. 
Writing in the current issue of Look Magazint', the oldest of the five Rockcfelh:r hrot hers described the bt.•havior of lihcratt:d youth as "the new chivalry." He said il was based on trust, openness, respect, and the true and essential aspects of maleness and femaleness. 
Rockefeller said marriagt\ as I he cornerstone of civilized society, rem;rins important to the young hut they haVl' rejected difrerent standards for male and female. Young men arc increasingly against the warrior role and not afraid to do domestic chores, he wrote. Young women rursue activities outside the home and worry less about proving their femininity. 
"They seem to understand that love is much, much more than sex, and that it is natural for a person to be loving, in the finest sense, toward many other persons of both sexes," Rockefeller wrolt'. 
He noted that in the older generation men are deterred from deep affection for other men by false notions about masculinity and from meaningful friendships with 
WE'RE BACK!! 

FREE UNIVERSIT~ 
!1/I:IDS 

other women by fears of what tht'ir wives will think. Youth is changing all that, he believes. 
"Children ... will be brought up to understand that love does not mean owning another person, that it is possible to love deeply in marriage and to love others openly and honestly as well," Rockefeller observed. 
"This liberation of the human spirit, both in one's upbringing as a child and in marriage, can in turn only make a soundly based m<Jrriage even richer and stronger." 
Rockefeller criticized parents who arl' trying to destroy sex t•d ucation programs in the schools rather than improve them and Puritans who unwittingly promote pornography by trying to stamp it out with laws that only whet the public appetite for the illicit. 
"If we will just be patient long enough, the current obsession with sex will largely pass away because pornography will become simply boring that is, unless the Puritans overreact again to make it exciting for us," Rockefeller said. 
AUTHOR: Contact me personally Ed. 

Pick up entry form in your 
FREE 
Term Planner 
and Pocket Secretary 
at Notre Dame Bookstore 'Today (LimlledSupply) or deposit this entry torm in Bookstore Sweepstakes Box withon 4weeks from start of classes 
Name ___ _ 
Address----­
CollegP _-·--~--­

Participating Manufacturers 
Fly your 
own jet! 
FLY NAVY 
Representative will be on campus Sept. 22, 23, 24, 25, & 26. 
Eaton's Zodiac Stationery 
E I 
1­c 
0 
·;: 
~ 
l5
....
.: ·;:5 
!I 
0. 
.. ·~ 
E
<( 
3 
.. c
.. 0 
z.. .! 
:1 
~ 0 'i 

CAY 
"B@DES 
..
.. 
~ 
~ iL 

STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION 
needs 

PEOPlE 
For Re~ponsible Positions 111 the Following Fields: 
MARDI GRAS PROMOTION 
Publicity Artist Carnival Photographer Dance Typist-Correspondence Raffle Creative Thinkers 
Promotion Workers 
Help is also needed for work on the following: 
HOMECOMING COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL GRAND PRIX SPECIAL PROJECT 
All interested people should come to a meeting on the second floor of the Student Center. TUESDAY, SEPT 23, at 
7fUll. 

The !'Osition ofCIIA/RMAN is still open for both GRAND PRIX and COLLHGIATE JAZZ Ft'STIVAL. Resumes should be submitted to: 
Social Commission 
Box 427 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Telephone: 2R3 -74R9 

r 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1969PAGE 4 

f 
I I I 
f THE OBSERVER.. 
Rick libowitz
New athletic league formed 
The Illinois university After tht• ~:ross wuntry meet
CIIICAGO (UPI) Five 
The four horsemen
members of the conference arc in the fall of 1970, a double
universities in Illinois and Southern 11Jinois of Carbondale, round robin league schedule will
Indiana, including Indiana State Northern Illinois of DeKalh, and he played in basketball in
and Ball State, announced yesterday the formation of a Illinois State of Normal. I 9 7 0-71 with wrest ling, 
Item: F/mcr La.vden accepts award j'rom ND Monogram Club at
Ball State, of Muncie, Ind., gymnastics, swimming, track,
new intercollegiate athletic and Indiana State, of Terre tennis, golf and baseball to 
game in which .female cheerleaders debut. 
conference. The formation of the league •llaute, Ind., arc two of Indiana's follow. Set against a bright September sky, the Four Horsemen rode again.
was announced jointly at a news four state supported schools. Because of advance The others, Indiana and Purdue, ~.:ornmitments, no ~.:hampionship 
No longer arc their names Death, War, Pestilence and Famine, today
conference here as the arc in the Big Ten. in football will be conduded 
f hey are known as Tiernan, Stringer, Buck and McCrary·.
culmination of a study covering until 1974, the first opportunity Northwestern's vaunted Wild~.:ats never had a chan~.:e. With pompomstwo years. Competition will 
Withdrew From ICC 

for members to ~.:ompl'lc on a waving and knee socks set against the foe, the new Fearless Foursomebegin next fall with a cross 
Ball State and Indiana round robin basis. mowed down the enemy with undiminished zeai. Not even the early
country meet. Most other sports 
State were members of the Members will play in the len point deficit could halt the relentless pressure the New Wavewill follow in the 1970-71 
Indiana Collegiate Conference university division in all sports mottnted. Megaphones to the attack, they soon had the Freshmen upseason except football, which for years until they withdrew ex~.:ept footba1:, whi~.:h requires in a moment of emotional e~.:stasy, following closely the second Irishwill operate on a conference recently when their enrollments sanction by a special committee touchdow:1 of the quarter. But during the second quarter, while thechampionship basis in 1974. 
grew far beyond those of the of the National Collegiate Irish dominated action on the field, the stands began to be touched by other participating schools. Athletic Association. Lethargy; all the pre-game build-up had begun to fade, the troops were quiting down. After the whistle, it was a grim-fa~.:ed wach that fa~.:ed
The conference also will The joint statement the cheering squad.
include cooperative work in announcing the conferen~.:e's
At Purdue: 

"Men," she said, "I don't know what went wrong out there, but it
educational programs, academic formation was signed by Dr. 
~:an'! happen again in the second half. We've all worked too long and
credit exchange, cooperative John J. Pruis, president of Ball hard to let down now. I know you've been here since August. It's beenresearch projeds, faculty and State, and Dr. Alan C. Rankin,
LAFAYETTE, Ind. tough on you, but it's been tough on us all. The ~.:oaches have worked
student exchanges and legislative president of Indiana State.
(UP I) -Purdue's Boilermakers you to where you're good with the pompoms, and great at the jumps.
efforts.

worked out in light drills Grants in Aid Set We still don't know about the snowball dodging but there's time yet. 
yesterday and reviewed game Officials said the fiv e schools There's no reason why those boys shouldn't be eating out of your are similar in size and have It said all five universities
films in preparation for their hands. Now, men-, I want to tell you a storyabout Georgia Grand. She traditional rival game with Notre mutual interests in education agreed to provide a total of no was one of the best that ever ~:a me down the pike; could jump, Dame. programs and emphasis on Jess than 120 and no more than cartwheel, ki~.:k and shake with the best of them. But it was with the 
220 full grants in aid for
Offensive tackle Paul graduate level study. pompoms that she made her fame. She was murder, men, pure animal. All five members agreed to athletics by the ISI?0-71 s~.:hool
De Nuccio, a junior from With either hand, there wasn't a woman near her. In the roughest Wheaton, Ill., regained a starting provide athletic facilities year. Of course, no less than 20 games, she never lost her hold on those streamers, never forgot or position after a knee operation comparable with those of the and no more than 24 shall be for panicked, she really earned her ni~.:kname." hampered his hid to retain the others in size and purpose as basketball. "(~eorgia's not with us anymore. After her last game, the life just 
soon as is feasible. Football grants will start
spot this fall. He humped the seemed to go out of her. I know, I was at her bedside when she died. I biggest man on the team, 6 foot The league hopes to decide on immediately with a minimum of remembcr, just as if it was yesterday. "Coach." she said to me, "I know R Donnie Green. a nan;e before competitio~ 75 and a maximum of I00 
what the swrc is and I want you to know that I'm not afraid. And Two other 1968 starters who begins next fall. grants and by 1973-74 will .he at 
coach, I want you to remember me and tell the team about me. And missed winning the'4 2-3 5 season The joint announcement said a level of 85 to I00. 
wach. if the going is rough, if you tell them about me, wherever I am, opener at Texas Christian t h c part i c i patio n in the The facilities the institutions 
I'll know and be able to help."University are expected to be in conference "has been approved arc required to plan include 
The coach, just as tough and hard-boiled as they wme, wiped a tear the starting lineup this Saturday reasonable targets of 1980 for 
from her eye. "Okay," she said, "when you go out there for the sewnd
by ea~.:h s~.:hool's governing body
against the Irish. They are stadium spedator capa~.:itics in half and Northwestern has the ball, I want you to hit those cheers,and we look forward with
seniors Dennis Wirgowski, a the range of 25,000 to 50,000 really hit 'em. And then we go on the offense! I want you ends to drive!
unlimited enthusiasm to many
defensive end, and linebacker and ficldhouse capacities of drive! drive! those cheers home. You middle linemen, charge like you
years of competition."

Dick Marvel. between 5,000 <Jnd 12,000. 
mean it. Let those TV cameras know that this is Notre Dame and this is a squad that means business. Never give up, never give up, never give up! And most of all men, remember Georgia Grand, the toughest
Football seat shortage is explained 
pompom girl that ever pulled on knee so~.:ks. Go out there and win this one for the Gripper! Final Score: Notre Dame 35 Northwestern I 0. by Jim Holsinger 
Irish legend had stru~.:k again. 

The new system of seating previously," Mr. Donald E. that the students know where Notre Dame and St. Mary's Bouffard, Notre Dame Ticket their sections arc it should run 
Add Purdue tickets 
students together at football Manager, said. more smoothly," Bouffard said. (continued from page I) "The (of holding
prc~.:edcnt 

games was responsible in part for Bouffard further explained Room at football games has 
said, "tl:at taking out 50 or en:.. back tickets)" Clark wntinued, a shortage of places in the that when the administration he~.:ome a major problem for the 
I or 2 tickets is an inequity."· "was contrary to our policy and 
student sections at last established. the program last university. There haw been no "We never really talked about we were not fulfilling our Saturday's home game against spring, there was not enough new tickets issued sincl' 1967. 
the policy before," Clark said. obligation to the studl~nts by Northwestern. time to wait until registration to 
The space problem stems "We did it every year and we denying them those extra fiftyThe co-ex system is the reserve the studl·nt sections. 
mainly from the growing just never made a complete tkkets."
result of a plan proposed by The seating had to be assigned me m h ership of the alumni ex ami nat ion of the policy until Clark said that he felt the

student government last on informal ion from the 
association. Ea~.:h year 1500 new today." only fair thing to do was to putspring. registrar's office during the 
members join the alumni Clark conferred with the tickets in the lottery with
After the student body 
summer. 

association, hut the group docs Associate Student Union the other 250 and have Student
ratified the proposal in a It was on that data combined not lose many members. Director Tito Trevino and hot h Union personnel take their
referendum taken last semester, from the offices of Notre Dame In 1967, the ticket men con~.:urred in the decision. chances with the rest of the
the former reserved scat policy and St. Mary's that whole was replaced by the new general sections were rcserwd. 
department decreased the Both men said tha: they students. number of seats allotted to hoped that the n.:ws of the The two top men at the
admission seating. The sections arc divided by visiting schools in an effort to decision would heip in Union said they were very
The shortages arose when a~.:ademic year, and a student is a~.:commodate more alumni. establishing a new public image pleased to sec a student make
students took more room in a free to sit anywhere in his of the Union. the effort to come to them and
particular row or section than section. Visiting teams arc now would have been assigned to l~ven though there was allowed only 5000 pla~.:es. As a "We are dett'rmined to discuss a Union poli~.:y that he them last year. enough room in each section, result of this Notre Dame is only establish some kind of disagreed with. They hoped that 
allowed 5000 seats when the ~.:redibility this year," Clark said. all students would feel free to do
"There were enough seats, but stud·.mts who arrived late had team plays on the road. "The philosophy that the so in the future.
with the general ad mission trouble finding seats. Season ticket sales have been Student Union is attempting to The extra fifty ti~.:kets now
system ten or twelve students "I t.hink that the first game on were sitting where fourteen general ad mission was rough on frozen since 1967, and cutbacks follow is that we are a servkc makes the number to be sold were also made in the parents' organi1.ation whose purpose is to through tonight's lottery 300.
could have been seated the students and on us. Now 
Downs is named SMC asst. pres. 
allotment. serve students in the Notre The cost will he seven dollars for Now only contributing alumni Dame ~.:ommunity. The only way a ticket to the game and thirteen are offered ticket applic<Jtions, to do this is to establish a sound dollars and fifty cents for a and tickets are given on a lottery and efficient financial ticket to the game plus round The Rev. Richard J. Downs, Heart Chur~.:h. Father Downs basis. When an <.tlumnus .;,·ganization." trip bus fare to Purdue. 
esc, has been named to the earned his M.A. degree in contribull!s before Janu<Jry I of position of assistant to the philosophy at Notre Dame in the year preceding the season he president of St. Mary's College 1956 and remained at the is eligible for t ickcls. 
REMEMBER-PURDUE TICKET LOTTERY 
by Msgr. John J. M~.:Grath, University until 1960 as an For the more popular games College president. instru~.:tor in the philosophy the ticket offi~.:e has to return 
Tonite Fiesta Lounge 7-9
Born in Detroit, Michigan, department while working chl~cks on the first d<Jy of sales Father Downs attended the toward his dodorate. each ye<.~r. University of Notre Dame, In 1960, Father Downs With an in~.:reasing 
rece1vmg a B.S. degree in accepted a position as assistant me mbcrship in the Alumni mathematics in 1959. lie than professor of philosophy at the Association and an increasing proceeded to I loly Cross College University of Portland in undergraduate enrollment no in Washington. D.C., for Portland, Oregon. rl'!urning to relief is in sight. theological study and returned Moreau Scmin<.~ry. Notre Dame, "Kight now we are in a static to the Notre Dame ~.:ampus in Indiana, as a faculty member in situation. We can't movl·," 1954 to be ordained at Saaed 1967. Bouffard s<.tid. 

