

VOL' IV, No. Servin the Notre Dame and Saint M_ary 's College rommuni(J' FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1969 
Senate overrules McKenna 
Afro -Americans denied; walk out on Senate 
By Dave Fromm and Tim Treanor 
A hizzare near-confrontation over funds to the Afro-American Society climaxed last night's long and bitter Student Senate meeting, which concerned the student government budget. 
The Afro-American Society head Art McFarland, with two fellow blacks walked out after a proposal to allocate $2500 to the Society was defeated in a bitter-contested 21-20 votes. 
As he left, before the motion to allocate $2000 was considered, he delivered a series of comments on the proceedings 

Retiring Student Services Commissioner Robert Pohl 
Pohl to resign positionof SU Commissioner 
organization. The commission isBy Cliff Wintrode making money, but at the same Citing a ''lack of satisfadion" time is serving stuJents. It is not with his post, Student Union jeopardizing services to the stu­Services Commissioner Bob l'ohl dents to make money," he said. 
yesterday officially announced · Clark, who was told by Pohl his resignation effective at the last Wednesday of his resigna­end of this week. 
tion, commented on the deci-Tito Trevino, Student Union 
sion. 
Assoicate Director, will assume 
"I understand why he re­the hunkns of the office, but signed and I respect Bob's deci­will not assume l'ohl's title. sion. lie is not only a business 
Pohl revealed that disillusion­associate but a very good ment with his job was the major friend," he said. reason for his resignation. Clark also discussed the loss 
"I want to spend my time in of Pohl to the Student Union. some I hing more worthwhile "He is going to be missed than the bureaucracy of the Stu­very much. In the few short dent Union," he said. months he was Services Com­
Pohl conceded though that missioner he took it from a "by, its very nature, Student $5,000 loss to where it has a Union can not be anything but great potential to make money hur~aucratic as it is designed." and at the same time to provide 
II e e 111 p hasized that the more services than in past yea!S," peo pie working in Student· he said. Union, espedally Denny Clark Clark commented'on the bur­and Tito Trevino, were not in­eaucracy of Student Union, the volved in his decision prime cause of Pohl's discontent 
"I began thinking about it with his office. almost since I got back to "Unfortunately in running the school. The only thing that kept type of organization we have, it mt• on was Denny and Tito ami 
is necessary to have somewhat of the people who work in the 
a bureaucracy. Student Union is Student Union." he said. a business. Unfortunately at 
Viewing his future plans, Pohl 
Notre Dame one must play poli­said he would like to get in­
tics. I know this was disillu­volved in the Kennedy Institute sioning to Bob," he added. for Social Action or other social Trevino further explained his work, 
relationship with the StudentPohl viewed with pride certain Services Commission as being anaccomplishments of the Student overseer who has the ultimate 
Services Commission since he voice on any decisions or pro­took charge last April. 
grams initiated by the commis­"I am proud of the wh 1le 
sion. 
over the protesting voice of Stay At this point Hunter rose to chairman of the committee of Senator Rich Hunter. the whole, forfeited his right to
make a point of personal 
Despite Student Body privilege complaining that vote in case of a tie when he President Phil McKenna's McFarland was being allowed to earlier argued before the attempts to rule Hunter out of prejudice the Senate without an committee in favor of a larger order, the Stay Senator refused oppostion voice being allocation to the Afro-American 
to stop talking until McFarland recognized. He was ruled out of Society. left the room. order by McKenna. The Senate overwhelmingly H u·n ter was pro testing After McFarland left, Hunter voted to support Hunter's 
McFarland's commentary on the requested a recess of three challenge. McKenna said a grounds that McFarland was minutes to discuss the incident re-vote would be taken at next speaking after discussion on the that had just happened, but Tuesday's meeting and suggest issue had been closed, which he McKenna refused. adjournment, which the Senate 
contended was in violation of "And what if I say no? I think did shortly. Robert's Rules of Orders. McFarland's introductory
that Senators should consider 
McFarland said there was this in their own hearts, and remarks to the Senate concerned nothing they could do· with the their own minds, the real reasons the atmosphere at Notre Dame. $2000. He wanted at least three behind what went on today," he "It is something we (meaning 
thousand, and twnety-five said. blacks) are not accustomed to. It McKenna then called for a
hundred as the absolute is extremely difficult to get minimum. major black theatre groups to
vote on the allocation of two "You can go and play with thousand dollars to the come here -or any one at all, your two thousand; go buy Afro-American Society. because of the prices. If you yourself a concert or whatever. That result, a 20-20 tie, don't believe me, just ask Every time a black man comes touched off a further storm of 
Student Union," he said. before a white body, he gets this controversy when McKenna Human affairs Commissioner continual shit. Well, you can voted yes to break the tie. Dave Krashna, however, had a play with your two thousand Hunter was on his feet instantly somewhat different view of the now, baby," McFarland stated. pointing out that McKenna, as Continued on page 2 
Committee approves Black Studies 
it (the Black Studies Program) or a program," Krashna said. By Jim Holsinger could count on greater support Krashna indicated that he from existing departments than would still continue to work 
The proposal to initiate a if it were an autonomous depart­with the committee, which new Black Studies Program at Notre ment, and finally it was the has the task of seeing its pro­Dame received final approval opinion of the committee that posal through the official red 
from the University Committee the College Council would be tape. The program must be ap­for Black Students last Tuesday. reluctant to approve the initia­proved by the College Council By a 9-1 vote, the committee tion of new departments at this and the Academic Council, and decided to send their finalized time," explained Mr. Thomas J. finally obtain financial approval 
program to the College Council Musial, secretary of the Com­from the Board of Trustees. for further approval. mittee for Black Students. "I very definitely do want to Much of the last meeting of The dissenting vote in the continue work on the commit­the Committee for Black Stu­final approval was cast by David tee, and I believe the committee 
dents was spent discussing the Krashna, Notre Dame Human recognizes the sense of my dis­terminology of part of the pro­Affairs Commissioner, and a senting vote," Krashna added. posal. Some members of the member of the committee. The committee's primary pur­
committee wanted to initiate "I believe in the total sense of pose has been to establish Black Black Studies as an inter­the proposed program, however Studies. The proposal the com­disciplinary program. Other not in the total tenl}inology ," mittee is submitting concerns members thought that there said Krashna. itself with the practical ways of 
should be a separate Black Stud­Krashna's specific reason for implementing the Black Studies ies Department. dissenting was the change from a Program. 
After discussing the matter at Department of Blace Studies to The proposal begins by de­length, the committee voted 7-3 a Black Studies Program, scribing the objective of the in favor of a Black Studies Pro­"I found it as being too simi­Black Studies Program. The con­gram instead of a new depart­lar to other administration at­cern of the Black St udics Pro­ment. The majority of the com­tempts to thwart our efforts. gram is "to provide its students mittee members thought that Though it has been discussed in with an awareness, through having a program rather than a our committee, I still question systematic study, of the experi­department would facilitate the the comparative strength and ences, conditions, and origins of passage of the overall proposal. weakness of such a proposal 
Continued on page 2

"As a program of the college under the name of a department 


GROW WITH THE SPACE AGE AT 

GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER 
GREENBELT, MD. 

ENGINEERS-SCIENTISTS-MATHEMATICIANS LINK YOUR COUNTRY'S FUTURE 

AGODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER REPRESENTATIVE WILL VISIT YOUR CAMPUS TO DISCUSS YOUR CAREER OPPORTUNITIES WITH THIS GROWING NASA CENTER ON: NOVEMBER 6, 1969 
Senate followed the recommendations of the Finance Committee and kept the Observer budget to nine thousand dollars. Observer Publisher Don Holliday, who 
See Observer Editorial on Page 4. 
had requested twelve thousand, 

contended  that  he  was  
committed to an  eight-page  
paper.  

1--"..:.:A::.__..:.f.:..o.:.:u::...r-::..p.:::ag::.e::.__...::P:...:a:.:::p..:.e::...r__:l.:..o.:..se..:s-, 
Guys and Dolls Both Go For Black Angus 
Fine steaks properly broiled at 
prices you can live with. Pleasant surroundings, comfortable booths 
PLE'ASh' R 


and chairs, a little background music and a smile from the folks who serve you. Choice of dinners to match your taste: 
1. 
Sirloin ....................... $1.59 

2. 
Rib Eye ....................... 1.29 

3. 
Chopped Sirloin .......... 1.09 

4. 
N.Y. Strip ................... 1.89 

5. 
Ham Steak .................. 1.19 

6. 
Fish Fillet ...................... 99 

7. 
~lb. Hamburger Platter with French Fries .. 79 



Just N. E'dison 

hundred dollars. 
Student Union will receive the $$22,400 recommended by the Senate Finance Committee. Of the toal allotment, $15,000 was set aside for SU AC. 
Pat Dowdall, SUAC Commissioner, requested an additional $1011 but was refused. A vote on the request resulted in an 18-18 deadlock which gave SBP Phil McKenna, senate chairman, the right to vote. MeKenna voted negatively. 
Tom Suddes, Hall Presidents Council Chairman, asked that the senate allocate $1000 to the HPC. 
The finance committee felt that some of the HPC's expenses were extravagant and could be cut. The senate then voted in favor of a $500 HPC appropriation.. Prior motions to allocate $1200 and $1000 both failed. 
MY BOOKS!! 
Chest of drawers "mistaker ly" taken from summer storage. Return books -keep drawers. Call 288-8664 
N.J.C. presents 
Bruce Brown's 
THE ENDLESS SUMMER 
Show time 7:00 -9:00 
Eng.  Aud.  Nov  2  (Sunday)  
$. 75  others  
$.25  members  

The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 

L-------------------------------------------------------------~----~-­
F....:R..:..:I.=D.:...:A:..:.Y.:....·..:o:.:c:..:.T.::.O.::.B.:..ER:..:......::J:..:.1.:....·...:..19:.:6:.:9 '11ll__OB$Eilfi£.R ----~---··,-.-----------------:...:..P..:..;A:;:G~E-=,3










1 

Cornerstones stolen 
The following letter was received by the Observer, witn copies sent to Father Riehle, Arthur Pears, and WSN D. For the bene­fit of our readers, the letter is herewith reprinted in full.-ed. 
To Whom It May Concern: 
We now possess the two cornerstones for Flanner and Grace Towers. We actually have no use for them--they are a little too bulky for paperweights. Therefore, I am afraid that we must hold them in ransom. 
While the Campus has recently been protesting the War and other national events, the conditions on Campus are being ignored. Therefore, for the return of the stones: 
Wl:i DHMAND immediate improvement in the dining halls--not only in quality, but also in quantity. Why should we be forced to pay twice for dinner--once on the tuition bill and everv ni£ht at {oodsales! 
WH DEMAND a complete revision of the laundry. It now takes a week to get one bundle oflaundry back. A professional laundry--without its own vlant--has it back the next day! 
WE DEMAND that the Bookstore stop robbing the students. With the incredible cost of tuition, why must we be forced to pay twice the price of books--especially since the Bookstore buys in CJUantity? 
WE DEMAND, finally, a rebate for the long-suffering Grace ar1d Flanner Tower residents. Why should the University make mnnry offofOUR discomfort? 
Of course, I am sure that there are students that do not agree with these demands or our actions. Perhaps they will be glad to go down to St. ] oseph 's Lake and, in the Notre Dame Tradition, bake two more. 
"Yours in Notre Dame," 
P.S. If you want your stones back, the only way to contact 
us will be over the loudspeaker at the game Saturday. No questions asked! 
English T.A.'s fo seek raise 
check," he said, "even taking inAbout 30 Teaching Assistants an occasional movie becomes aat Notre Dame plan to demon­major financial decision. Thestrate for higher salaries at Sat­hardest hit, though, are those ofurday's Notre Dame-Navy us with wives and children; ifFootball game. The young emergencies come up, they're inteachers, all of them in the 
Department of English, charge trouble." 
that they cannot meet minimum The teachers will ask parents 
living expenses on their current and alumni at the game to urge 
salary of $2100 a year. They arc 
the University to grant th«to !--------------------------------------~ 
secki ng a $1400 raise. raises; they'll also urge that con-According to William tributors to Notre Dame ear-Lorimer, spokesman for the mark a small percentage of their group, the University has made contributions for increased 
no cost-of-living adjustments for salaries. 
the Teaching Assistants since Father Theodore llesburgh, ~964. Notre Dame president, has said "After taxes, rent, food, that the Univesity is unable to insurance and other expenses raise their salaries because of 
that come out of that pay-budget limitations. 
eGREAiSTATESTHEATRES .,
JTH~~K CI~:f!lmJ 1;~:~1i!f 
-You never met apair like Butch and The Kiar­
?Oth CENTURY-FOX PRESENTS 
PAUL NEWMAN ROBERT REDFORD· MI'HARINE ROSS." 
BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID CO::':Vs:'run 
[M]suwested!or Mature Audiences
• Woody Allen inC0m1ng: "Take The Money And Run" 
FRESHMEN 
Important meeting for all those interested in 
running ./(Jr a class office ... 
Sun. Nov 2, Badin Hall 
7:30 p.m., Lower Level 
Any questions -contact Greg Stepic 6968 
Last March the Student Union Social Commission asked the Ticket Manager to hold I ,500 Navy tickets for Homecoming. Tuesday morning, October 28, the Social Commission returned 1,090 of these tickets to the Ticket Manager. 
The general admission seating plan passed in the Spring referendum, and inaugurated this fall, includes St. Mary's College students only. Female students from other schools will not, WE 
all the way.
REPEAT NOT, be admitted to the student section without 
tickets, for Homecoming, or any other football game. 
BUDWEISER® • KING OF BEERS® • ANHEUSER-BUSCH. INC. • ST.LOUIS
CBS ...v 
-· NEWARK • LOS ANGELES • TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS • JACKSONSVILLE 
DONALD E. BOUFFARD, JR. ROBERT CAHILL 
TICKET MANAGER BUSINESS MANAGER 



PAGE 4 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1969 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
DONALD C. HOLUDAY, Publisher GAETANO DE SAPIO, Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3 1966 

From the Publisher 
Last night, the Student Senate, acting as a committee of the whole, passed judgment on the allocation of the students' activity fee. It also passed judgment of the future of 
The Observer. 
I asked for an appropriation of $12,000 for The Observer, was granted $9,000. I presented what I thought was a reasonable rationale of our financial problems and what I envisioned to be the future of this newspaper. 
Last year The Observer received $9,500 as a student subscription fee. This amounts to approximately $1.60 per year or a little more than a penny an issue. The increase to $12,000 would equal a subscription rate of $2 per year or a, few more mills an issue. Perhaps we are sadly mistaken, but we think we are the best bargain on campus. 
Without a doubt, I think I can say that the growth of The Observer has been phenomonal. I also think the prospects for the future are just as bright. However, as a growing business our financial problems are many. In order to attract the advertising volume we desire, we must have a va.lid advertising medium. In addition, to cut production costs we must publish at a minimum of eight pages per issue. 
Furthermore, I feel that if we are to call The Observer a legitimate newspaper we must begin to consistently produce at least eight pages. I will be the first to admit that this paper is not as good as it could be, but I believe that this is also part of the growing process. However, I feel we now have the staff to produce a good newspaper and I know they are willing to work. 
Last year we struggled and were able to publish The Observer five times a week and averaged four pages per issue. This year, is again, a year of growth. We want to print a minimum of eight pages a day for the reasons I stated above. So far, we have been able to increase our volume of pages 80% over the previous. Unfortunately, I presumed we would receive the $12,000 we need. I didn't think the students would mind paying two dollars for this newspaper. The Senate tells me that I was apparently wrong. 
I do not believe The Observer can continue another year of simply producing four page newssheets. I think we proved last year we can publish five times a week. I think we have shown this year that it is possible to publish eight page issues. However, we cannot do it with an appropriation of $9,000. 
Therefore, I have no choice but to say that unless the Senate reconsiders and grants The Observer $12,000 as the student subscription fee, I will be forced to cut publication after Thanksgiving to three eight page issues a week. 
I have printed an approximation of our budget this fiscal year. If you have any 
questions I will be glad to entertain them. The decision is yours. Don Holliday, publish~ 
Observer 1969-1970 Budget 

Income UPI Wire Service 1,050 Telephone: 
Advertising: a.) Outstanding 1,385 a.) local . . 18,000 b.) '69-'70 . . 900 b.) national 8,000 Office Supplies . 500 
Capital Improvement 560Subscriptions . . 1,500 Postage
Allocations: 730 
Commissions for a.) Student Gov't. . 12,000 ad salesmen 

b.) SMC Admin. . 2,250 1,800 
Salaries:Total . . . . . . . 41,850 

a.) circulation 1, 333 b.) layout 730Expenses 
c.) photography . 730 Misc. . 500Printing: Total . . . . •
a.) Star Publishing Co. . 14,132 . 41,850 b.) Student Union Pub. . 17,500 
S~;nate Voting For $10,000 Observer Budget 
Both the motion for allocating $12,000 and $11,000 were taken by a hand 
vote. This was the only roll call vote. -ed. 
Erick Andrus For Steve Flavin 
Against

Carl Rak Ed Davey 
Leo Klemm Tom Thrasher Robert Englert Rich Hunter T. Tigini Dave Loring Mark Zimmerman Tom O'Laughlin 
Richard Tarrier Sam Rumore Rich Hunter Ed Crawford James Sweeney John Tobin Bruce Kuennan 
Jim Brogan Pat Weber Absent: Russ Stone Kevin Smith Buz Craven Frank Macaleer Rick Libowitz Ed McCartin Tom Patton Don Mooney James DeSapio Joe White Mark Moes Dan Dillon Joe Mathea Dave Schmidt Tim Feeley Fred Guiffrida Tom BeUe John Drost Dave Johnson Terry Malik Fred Dedrick Ken Israel John Zimmerman 
J. Bruha Tom McDermott· S. Fiala 
' 1 THAT GOVERNMENT OFTHE. pEOPI..E, BY THE PEOPj..f;. ' ANJ) FOR. THE PEOPL-E , SHALL NOT PER.ISH FROM THE EARTH') 
Mike Kelly 
As October ends ••• 
Outside the sole window of my narrow Breen-Philliys single, brightly coloured in a futile attempt at joviality, the first snows of winter whirl, wind-driven, through the gray sky. The October winds pull at browning leaves until they are~nable to resist and are carried in dizzying descent to join their weaker comrades below. Throughout the land students and housewives and stockbrokers (much to the disgust of those patiently awaiting the revolution) stop what they are doing and come together to mourn those who have died and raise their voices in a gentle litany to ask that no more die. 
In the capitol a foolish man speaks in coarse terms about snobs and so-called intellectuals while the leader of the country realizes that waging peace is no less difficult than waging war and begs his weary nation to have patience with him and his attempts to find a meaningful peace ... 
NOW YOU WRITE ON! 

(Courtesy, Michael Mountain Enterprises, non-fictional novel division.). *** 
The New York Mayoralty race more and more takes on the 
proportions of a fantasy. 
The city is faced with a choice between an intelligent liberal, an intelligent conservative and a stupid liberal. All indications are that they will select the stupid liberal. Mayor Lindsay continues to seek re-election on the basis of his opposition to the war in Vietnam. John Marchi, least but not last, continues his effete, futile efforts to discuss the problems of New York in terms of cash inflow and moral decay, while Mario ("th'next Mayuh ruv Newyawk!") Proccacino insists that he and the "culluhed folks" get along real fine. Lindsay ought to win, but probably won't. It brings to mind the time when Dublin Lord Mayor Robert Briscoe was seeking re-election and one of his assistants was asked "What has the Lord Mayor done to deserve to lead the people of Dublin?" The assistant replied, "What have the people of Dublin done to deserve being lead by the Lord Mayor?" 
*** 
Those people trying to prove that Paul McCartney is dead have ignored one Beatles album that provides conclusive proof that he has passed away. They've been so busy going over the "Abbey Lane," "Magical Mystery Tour," and "Sgt. Pepper" albums with fine-tooth comb and blacklight that they ignored the evidence on the earlier "Yesterday, Today and Tommorrow" album. As you may recall, this album was first put out with the Beatles wearing white aprons (originally taken to be butcher's aprons, but now we see they were surgeon's aprons) surrounded by hunks of raw meat and chopped up dolls. After some talk about bad taste, the album was re-released with the cover a picture of John, George and Ringo standing around a trunk and (you guessed it!) Paul is inside the trunk. What is more fascinating than the order of the songs on side one: 
"Drive My Car," 
"I'm Only Sleeping," 
"Nowhere Man," 
"Dr. Robert," 
"Yesterday," 
"Act Naturally." 

Heavy, heavy, heavy. 
*** 
Michael Mountain's useful quote of the week; 
"I don't know broccoli, 
but I know what I like." 

-Tom Connolly. *** As October ends, the days grow colder and one can hear in the wind Pat Ointon singing, "God have mercy on October's children all., Heavy. 

HALLOWEEN PAGE 5
711B O&rERfl.llt 
Ominous omnibus awes young reporter 

By Mark Walbran 
As our cub reporter was strolling around the campus yesterday waiting for a news story to break he saw an authentic red double decker British omnibus parked at the circle. "Gosh!" he cried, "That looks like an authentic red double decker British omnibus parked at the circle! This could be my first big scoop!" Our newspaper neophyte approached the bus driver and flashed his crispy new Observer press card. The driver said he would be happy to he interviewed. 
After parking the bus behind the Convocation Center the two went over to the Observer office where our aspiring young journalist introduced the bus driver, Jim MacDonald, to the old hands around the office. Then in the best Jimmy Olsen tradition he cond11cted the interview. 
MacDonald, a red-haired, elfish, 25 
year old entrepreneur, represents British Promotions of Boston. British Promotions makes the double decker available for business promotions or for just fun and different shuttle vehicles. 
Crosby, Stills and Nash 'too perfect' 
By Kevin Rooney 
It's a little late to be writing a review of the Crosby, Stllls, and Nash album. The record was released in early June, and most people are familiar with it by now. But here!Xlt Notre Dame, there must be some among us who have yet to hear the good sounds. This is a classy album, done by a true super-group. The alliance of David Crosby of the Byrds, Steve Stills of Buffalo Springfield, and Graham Nash of the Hollies, didn't get one-quarter of the publicity stirred up by the formatiom of Blind Faith. Yet there is a vast qualitative difference in the initial releases of,the two groups. 
Crosby, Stills, and Nash are each talented singers and when they sing in harmony, things really begin to happen. To quote Jeff Beck, in a different context, "vocalse extrodinaire." In fact the only complaint that I can find with the record, is that it may be too perfect. 
: join up with the remnants of Poco. No 
Winwood is not shown to best advantage. Most of the songs lack inspiration. But don't write them off. Great things may yet come from Messrs. Clapton, 
Winwood, Baker and Gretch. But we don't have to wait for Crosby, Stills and Nash. The first tune on the album, Suite: Judy Blue Eyes, is great. Steve Stills has written a song. Not an Iron Butterfly noise barrage, or an 
interminable Canned Heat boogie, but a current billing of the group, and they'll 
song with changes in melody, mood, and style. The singing ranges from angelic high harmonies to Still's soulful shout, "Can I ·tell it like it is? Help me I'm sufferin'." In between all of the great singing, Steve Stills exhibits some very fine guitar work. Nothing to induce standing ovations, but his playing is a lot more effective than some musicians in the 
rock world, whose ten minute sojourns lose any link they may have had to the rest of the song on the album, the best on 
In places they lost too much of the emotion and freedom which characterizes 
the best of rock music. 
Blind Faith should have such problems. Their first album, Blind Faith, is not very well done. All those special things that we had all hoped for, never happen. They lack the improvisational powers of Cream, and yet they do not match the tightness of Traffic. The album doesn't match the best efforts of Traffic or Cream, the two groups which spawned Blind Faith. Steve Winwood is an exceptionally fine vocalist, but he isn't at his best on this album. The instrumental virtuosity of Clapton, Baker, and 
the album, psesent his typically interestings melodies, combined with 
bittersweet lyrics. When Stills sings his 
own songs the ironic qualities inherent in 
his voice bring the songs to a height not 
often reached in pop music. 
David Crosby wrote Long Time Gone, 5 a rocking protest song, done in a wailing : vocal style. Crosby also collaborated with : Stills in writing Wooden Ships, a soothing i: encouragement to avoid the draft and : other evils by leaving the country. "Go : take a sister, then, by the hand, /,ead her : away from this foreign land. Far away, : where we might laugh again. We are : leaving, you don't need us." The : 

have a new album out soon. The Young is Neil Young, the moody singer, composer, and guitarist, formerly of Buffalo Springfield. He has done two albums of his own and a third on the way. Neil con't help but add to the group's performance. Bruce Palmer, another ex-Springfielder is jumping in to play 
bass. But since he doesn't sing or write,_t::================= 
his name won't be added to the firm of CSN and Y. There are reports that Judy Collins and J oani Mitchell, who apparently are good friends with Stills and Nash, respectively, may add their other talents to the group. Supposedly John Sebastian has also thought about joining the ever-growing family. Richie (another Buffalo man) Furay's group, Poco, may be finished, and may recruit Stills, Young, Palmer, and a drummer, and give Buffalo Springfield a deserved second time around. The other group could then be Crosby, Collins, Nash, Mitchell, and Sebastian, or they could 
matter how it all works out these people should continue to put out some of the best music to be heard. 
........................................................................................
-
-
-
--Draft counseling
•

-
•

-
It happens every year. As a young
•

-man enters his senior year of college
• 

something strange yet inevitable hap­
-
•

• pens to him-he begins worrying
• 

about the draft. He sweats and frets. 
-
--• 
He concocts bold and brazen schemes
-
•
• 
: 
5: 
: :
i: 

pretty Guinnevere is another Crosby composition. 
Graham Nash provides two good tunes, the erotic, Lady of the Island and the fast 
paced Pre-Road Downs, which features Hollies-style vocals. He is also responsible for the mediocre Top Fourty sound of 
Marrakesh Express. 
Crosby, Stills, Nash, and Young is the 
to outwit the authorities. He listens to 
everyone's varying suggestions. He 
loses sleep. 
He can also, if he is so inclined, seek free, qualified draft counseling. At least very shortly he can. 
For in the very immediate future the Notre Dame Draft Counseling Ser­vice, which began last year and which drew a moderate response, will return 
once again. Seniors Mike Yarbrough. 
and Tom McKloskey are mainly re­
sponsible for its revival. Tonight they 
and several other Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's students will participate in a 
draft counseling workship at South · 
Bend's Draft Union headquarters, 
Phil Bosco 

MacDonald is in South Bend for the opening of Barnaby's English Pub on Jefferson Street. He learned from the local Chamber of Commerce that Notre Dame hosts many conventions. He visited 
with Fr. John Wilson to find out if Notre Dame could use such a bus. MacDonald offered some of the staff a ride so our tyro, along with 
mild-mannered news editor Glen Corso 
and. ubiquitous photographer Phil Bosco, boarded the bus. Inside they found the velveteen upho~stered seats very comfortable. The upper deck afforded an excellent view of the Gold Dome as they passed by the circle. The bus stopped near St. Mary's lake and a group of St. Mary's students came over and admired 
the British machine. The ride ended behind the Administration building. Pulitzer's protege alighted with a ream of notes and hurried to his typewriter to get in the copy. 
It was an exciting afternoon. 
Star spangled bummer 
(SMC coffeehouse) 
Saturday night 9-12 
John Prendergast Norm Zeller Bob Ewan 
Olinda Pete Peterson Jim Moran Charlie Wordell 
50rf 

And soon they will open a room in either LaFortune Student Center or the Library for full-time (Sunday through Thursday) draft couseling. This service will be available to anyone in the community, and will offer information on the requirements for any possible deferment-CO, de­pendency, health, occupational, etc­as well as the various appeals pro­cedures. 
The student counselors do not in­tend to give advice or propose specific actions. Instead they will merely make known all the rights and opportunities of those facing the draft. 
Next semester new counselors will be recruited among the freshmen and sophomores. 
For further inquiry please call: 1650 or 1657. 
,-
···---·-. -· ---· --.·-------------­
THE OBSEIHIIIt FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1969
PAGE 6 

SARG brings Notre Dame to alumni
Yes, Sunday's my birth­day send cards and· 
Entering its second year of ries out this funtion by sending other Notre Dame funtions at­ing student life. The organ­
existence with an increased students to speak before various tended by alumni. Repre­ization is also taking an active 
membership, the a I u m n i senates. The repre­sentatives to these activities will role in recruiting minority stu­
Student-Alumni Relations sentatives usually speak for speak from five to ten minutes dents this year. 
Group will continue its efforts about two hours on student life and then conduct a question and 
to "make Notre Dame a more following an informal discussion answer period. In its first year of operation, 
diversified community and to between the student and senate the SARG was represented ac­
money to Paul R. Matwiy 
Sweeney emphasized that the
bring Notre Dame to the alumni members on the previous day. ross the nation by twelve mem­
Student-Alumni Relations
as it exists", according to Tim After his speech before the bers. This year the group has 
Group was formed for the bene­
Sweeney, chairman of the group. senate, the student may go to expanded to nineteen members. 
fit of the alumni. On request
area high schools to recruit stu­Members are selected on the 
Financed by the Alumni As­from alumni groups the relations 
dents. basis of an interview and how 
sociation, the SARG was in­unit will send a speaker to talk 
well they perform before an 

stituted last year to keep Notre In addition to speaking before to incoming freshmen. The pur­
audience. 

Dame alumni informed of Notre alumni senates, the SARG will pose of this is to help prepare 
Sweeney said that within the 

Dame activities. The group car-also talk at alumni dinners at freshmen for college by explain-
next six weeks, representatives of the group will speak in several mid-west and eastern cities in­cluding New York, Boston and Peoria, Illinois. 
Comm. Bucher speaks Sunday 


The Student Union Academic Commission presents Com­mander Lloyd Bucher, the com­manding officer of the naval intelligence ship Pueblo, which 
II 
was captured near North Korean 
59( 
unc 
waters on January 23, 1968. Bucher and his crew were held by North Korea for over a year under constant threats of death and torture. 
At 2:00p.m. Sunday, Nov. 2, 1969, Commander Bucher will speak in the Memorial Library Auditorium on that form of communism presently practiced in countries such as North Kor­ea, a form with which he is all too familiar. A question period will follow the talk at which time the Commander will answer


biggerat81/t: 
questions relevant to the Pueblo affair.

""Ke,.b 
Commander Bucher, 41, was reared at Father Flanagan's
~~· 
Boystown . 
~ 
• 
Sadie Is coming! 

Burger King. Home of the Whopper. 
--~ 


~:t N 
llADI..SY llrrz.GER 
G
/.-"T_H_E_I!_BERTINE]

501 DIXIEWAY NORTH, 
etarrin111 
Catherine Spaak and 
Jean-Louis Trintignant 
Produ«d by Silvio ClernenJelli

SOUTH BEND 
EASTMAN COLOR 
Rell'aardthroupV~~AUDUBON FILMS 
X PERSONS UNDER NOT ADMITTED. 


r--------------------------------------------------------------~­
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1969 THE O&rERf/ER. PAGE 7 
NIN.'I.'M',\'1,'11.'•'•'•\\\'Ia\'I•'•'IM ~11111111111.~11.\'111111111111
Letters 

Flag raising 
Editor: 
As one of the several initiators of the suggestion that the military should be removed from the public and official patriotic liturgy of this university, I would like to take certain exceptions to your account of our proposal (Observer, 24 October) and a major exception to your editorial analysis of it. 
The proposal itself is quite simple. When the flag is raised and saluted at the beginning of our principal athletic events, surely what is happening is that the University community is manifesting, if somewhat conventionally, its affirmation of the political ideals for which that flag stands. The agent of this affirmation is therefore truly representing the community in relation to those ideals. We contend that the military docs not properly do so. 
The principal reason that the military docs not properly represent the community's relation to those ideals is that, in the present political situation, the military is itself threatening those ideals and therefore should not even be a part of the University. 
The US military is (a) suppressing the legitimate aspirations for social development of peoples around the world in order to protect American interests; (b) continuing to wage a brutal war in South Vietnam that much of this country has come to dcplore (If official murders are carried out in Vietnam, how do we know that the next will not be here at home?); and (c) ex erc1smg a pernicious and growing direction over the goals and policies of the United States, primarily through its control, direct and indirect, over a vast proportion of the public expenditure, and secondarily through its presumed "rights" over the bodies of our young men. The extent of this m iIi t a ri za tio n is chillingly reflected in your casual assertion that "Traditionally the military has been responsible for defending those principles [upon which this nation was founded 1." 
Now this argument hardly rests upon some "devil-theory" about military men. Our peculiar inability as a nation to see that private virtue can co-exist with the worst public crimes makes us unable to deal with crucial polith.:al q ucstions on more than about $32 million of the univer­a personal basis. In fact, I sity's total expenses of $40 mil­imagine a situation-a "just war" lion was dire~.:ted into areas pri­if there is such a thing-in which marily benefiting studl~nts (the the University should have not additional $8 million going to­only a right hut a duty to train wards Alumni publications, em­officers. Such is not the present ployees retirement fund, re­
case. Some imagine private search, etc.). Thus, student con­malice is not the enemy: the tributions account for about 75% of student cost.
strudures and assumptions, 
overt and covert, that have I don't believe we can define guided our national policy in the contributions to a university present direction, arc. solely in financial terms. But I 
It may be objected that the wish that the Observer and other issue of the flag is merely 
sources would stop trying to symbolic. I quite agree. But I 
placate students by telling us 
---.J-~ . -. M. ~~X;' ..,. '\~' Model U.N.~.il'-·11/i ,;··: :.· :· . '~J1 Delegation Sign-ups
Vi~)<"!'!' 11;~ 

Mon. -Tues. -Wed. in the
·~:.:.~ · '?'i~
1 7 

~,~--~ i-~ dining halls and 0. C. office 
"·"""/""'­

revenue earned bv the university are not student contributions. The Observer did however make the error of lumping together revenue generating activities of the universitv with .1/umni con­tributions et~· . ed. 
Pitt game Ticket Distribution Monday night -7:30 20 LaFortune 

Receipts must be shown 
how grateful we should he. ---------------------------------------------------1
would expect this University to 
be among the first to appreciate Alum~i contributions ~nd invest-HAL.L.OWEEN 
ment mcome arc certamly neces­
the significance · of symbolic 
sary for the maintenance of
issues. · Several of the major 
Notre Dame, hut let us not
secular universities have 
forget that students are by far
appreciated the significance of the ·political issues by removing sf ill the largest contributors to their own education, and to the
the military entirely from their 
university as a whole.
campuses. 
Philip R. McKenna­
Sincerely, 

Student Body President 
Carl Estabrook, jr. I969-70 

The Ubserver's statement was based on the assumption tlzatall Thank you for clarifying what 
SPECIA MOVIES 
, Whl•te 
Zombie' Bela Lugosl -1932 + 
2 Charlie Chaplin Shorts 
FRI. 7:30 
CARROLL HALL $1.00 
the issue really is. The Observer may have an editorial comment on that someday soon. -ed. 
Contributions 

Editor: 
Re~.:ent misconceptions regar­ding student financial commit­
MY Ct-\AtJCES ARE OF 
ment to the university were highlighted in the Observer 
R~ACHlN& HoLLVwooo? 
October 24, 1969 editorial. The editorial stated in part: 
"On the other hand, between one-half and three quarters of the university operating budget comes from Alumni contribu­tions and from the interest earn­ed on the university endow­ments. Student tuition fees come no where close to covering 
costs." According to the umvers1ty ­June 1968 financial report (the latest available), Alumni contri­butions and investment income totaled approximately $15 mil­lion. Since the university's total revenue for the 1967-68 school year was $39 million -the other $24 million must be attributed to student contributions. I in­clude in these student contribu­

, 
tions such things as bookstore revenue and intercollegiate ath­letics revenue, since there would be no revenue in these areas were it not for students. Thus, students contribute approxi­mately 62% of the total univer­sity revenue. 
On the other hand, only 
-Motel Rooms ­
Very few motel rooms arc available for Homecom­ing. May be purchased today from 1 :03 -2:09 in the Social Comm. Office. 
TONIGHT Anti-War Protest 
Washington Hall 8:30P.M. 
Donation $1.50 
Get outta town without leaving campus. The lowest long distance rates are in effect every school night after 7 p.m. and all day Saturdays and Sundays. 
@Indiana Bell 
Use your long distance calling number. Save time. Dial your own calls. 
r 


7118 OBSERVER. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1969
31,

PAGE 8 
•

Barring rain,snow,or miracle-Navy 1n trouble 
Coaches always complain. They'll tell you that their whole team is green with sophomores, their quarterbacks are injury-prone, the conference is the strongest it's been in years, his schedule is impossibly hard, trouble and says it is goint to and the alumni are hounding water-down its schedule, one him. gets the feeling that this school 

One learns to discount most is hurting for real. of the usual sorrows voiced by I remember reading over the coaches, but when a shcool summer that Navy has decided comes out and admits it is in that playing the schedule that 
they do can only lead to disaster and so the Academy is strating 

to de-emphasize its schedule. Certainly Navy (I -5 on the year) is suffering. The running attack is second-rate, the passing is spotty, and the rushing de­fense weak. 
About the only thing which pleases coach Rick Forzano is his team's I 0 -0 victory over Virginia last week. The Cavaliers failed on seven fourth down situations against a suddenly tough Navy defense and were stopped by goal-line stands on the Navy six and six-inch lines in the fourth quarter. 
The Navy offense lives on the pass, provided by Mike McNal­len. A 6-2 junior from Chicora Pa., McNallen has passed for 992 yards (Joe Theismann has 995) 
on 85-212 throws (only a .400
The duo of quarterback Mike McN'"allen (right) and tight end 
completion mark). He has com­
Karl Schwelm have provided Navy with long-range striking 
pleted 17 passes to end Mike 
power. 
line-ups 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE 
SE Tom Gatewood LT Jim Reilly LG Larry DiNardo C Mike Oriard RG Charles Kennedy RT Terry Brennan TE Dewey Poskon QB Joe Theismann LHB Ed Zeigler RHB Denny Allan FB Bill Barz 
NOTRE DAME DEFENSE 
LE Walt Patulski L T Mike McCoy RT Mike Kadish RE Fred Swendsen LOLB Tim Kelly LILB Larry Schumacher RILB Bob Olson ROLB John Raterman LHB John Gasser RHB Ralph Stepaniak SA Clarence Ellis 
NAVY OFFENSE 
SE Mick Barr L T Charles Boyer LG Joel Lassman C Don Gunther RG Harry Landau RT Wally Winslow TE Karl Schwelm QB Mike MeN allen TB Dan Pike FLANK Mike Horney FB Jeff Steelman 
NAVY DEFENSE 
LE Tom O'Brien L T Mike Vizzier RT Mike Simpson RE Dave Robertson MLB David Howe LLB Bill McKinney RLB Bob Walter ROVER Oz Fretz
.. 
LH Fred Ziska RH Dave Walla SA Steve Dmetruk 

tight end Karl Schwelm. Twice coming date should be another this season, these two have team-weekend of waiting for the other ed up for 62-yard bombs and ranked teams to lose. Thanks to Schwelm has posted a 21.8 some timely upsets, the Irish yards/completion mark. moved back into the Top Ten in 
Senior halfback Dan Pike has AP while remaining 12th ranked performed well against Notre in UPI. Dame the last two seasons, with Barring rain, snow, or a mira­150 yards in 30 carries. This cle Navy defense, the score season, however, he has totaled should be sufficiently high by only 188 yards in 69 attempts. the third quarter for the reserves Ron Marchetti is averaging 4 (thwarted by Tulane last week) yards a carry, but McNallen has to get in some scoring. Back-up lost 156 yards in 45 attempts. quarterback Bill Etter is flirting The Navy rushing average has with an ND record for average been less than 60 yards per gain per rush. The record book game. The stats show that they lists two average marks, one for occasionally run the end and a minimum of 25 carries. This flanker around plays to Mick record is 10.3, set in 1923 by Milo, Mike Horney, and Gus Desch. This season, Etter Schwelm. has 139 yards in 14 carries for a 
For Notre Dame, this home-9.9 mark. 
91H..HIIIMIIHIIU1111111111iilllffillllffll Hlllllllllllllllllll 
~=~ 1~ IRISH EYE 
~_;:; By Mike Pavlin, sports editor 
IIIIUIIIIIII-1111111111111111111111111111111 1111111111 IIIIIUIIIII 
Blood in Bi!(Eight and SEC 
I think some of my picks last week need explaining because of the wild results I got. Purdue looked terrible against Iowa and Northwestern good in their game the week before they met. So I chose the 'Cats in an upset and Mike Phipps clobbered them. On the other hand, I didn't have much to go on when picking Kansas State over Oklahoma, but boy, did the Purple ever come through! 
I also picked Iowa over MSU, but by three while they won by a single point. I was happy to see Georgia Tech's sophs rattle USC around for as long as they did. I predicted a I 0-point Cal victory, the final margin was eleven. 
Perhaps the pick which needs the most explaining is "Penn State over Ohio University by 7." About three hours after my column was printed up, I learned that Clive Bryant, Ohio's stellar quarterback would be unable to play due to injuries, thus reducing the team's offensive power to nil and opening the way for the subsequent Penn State shellacking. 
This week the blood should flow freely in the Big Eight and the SEC. Notre Dame over Navy -by 27. They ought to outlaw games like this. Florida over Auburn -by l 0. Auburn has a fine defense, but it won't be enough to stop John Reves' passing. Tennessee over Georgia -by 3. This one should be close, but I've had bad luck betting against the Vols in the past. LSU over Mississippi -by I 0. The closeness of the gam!f will depend on the effectiveness of Archie Manning for the Rebels. Texas over SMU -by 17. a run-away unless Chuck Hixson gets his sights early in the game. 
Wyoming over Arizona State -by 7. This is the feature game in the Rockies this season. Despite racial troubles, Wyoming should take it. 
Colorado over Nebraska-by 3. Another toss-up, but Colorado has improved in recent weeks Kansas State over Missouri -by 7. The much-maligned Purple are atop the Big Eight. 
Michigan State over Indiana-by 7. The Hoosiers have been a real disappointemnt this season and Duffy is boiling mad over the inept officiating which cost him last week's game against Iowa. 
Delaware over Rutgers-by I. It is the turn of the seventh-ranked Blue Hens to face the passing arm of Rick Policastro. Last year Delaware went down by nine, this year they're looking for one of 
the big upsets on the East Coast. West Virginia over Kentucky-by 13. Houston over Miami-by 17. Arkansas over Texas A & M -by 20. TCU over Baylor-by 13. Texas Tech over Rice -by I 0. BYU over Arizona-by 14. USC over California-by 17. Stanford over Oregon State -by 17. Utah over Utah State -by 6. Air Force over Army-by 21. Oklahoma over Iowa State-by 14. Oklahoma State over Kansas-by I. Iowa over Minnesota-by 7. Michigan over Wisconsin -by 17. Syracuse over Pitt -by 14. 
Last Week: Winners, Won 16, Lost 8, Tied Point Spreads: Won 12, Lost 13 Season: Winners, Won 109, Lost 40, Tied 2 Point Spreads, Won 64, Lost '137 -­
l --.666 -.480 --.732 
.424 

Saturday at 10 AM at Stepan Field the Notre Dame freshman and sophomore Lacrosse team will play against an alumni team made up mostly of Chicago La­crosse players. This game will end the fall Lacrosse Clinic held in order to teach new players the game. These players have picked up the game well and will be help to the varsity in the Spring, as the Lacrosse team tries to better last year's 'd-7 record and tries to repeat as the Midwest Club Champions. 
Leading the Irish will be Eddie Hoban and Vic Lupo at attack and Fred Morrison at 
Barr, but his ace-in-the-hole is 
defense. Jerry Kammer, a junior and regular varsity goalie, will play the nets due to an injury to the frosh-soph netminder. The game should be interesting as it matches the young stickmen's speed, hitting, and hustle against the Alumni's experience and stick work. Coach Tim "Bones" McHugh promised an exciting game and added that "if my 
boys hit like they know how, we're going to stick it in their moustaches and Tuna (the Chicago captain and an NO alumnus) and the alumni will wish they never came back to du Lac. 






