
'·. 
THE WORLD TODAY 
Sucher Is resolute, delivers final plea 
CORONADO, Calif. (UPI)-Cmdr. Lloyd M. Bucher made u final plea yesterday before the five udmirals who could recommend him for court martial. lie told them in crisp, sharp tones he lost the USS Pueblo because "we did not have the power to resist." 
After brief statements by Bucher and his civilian attorney, E. Miles llarvey, Vice Adm. Harold Bowen udjourned the Navy's eight week Court of Inquiry into the Pueblo's capture by North Korea 
Jan. 23, 1968. 
THE 


~RVER 
Serving the Notre !>ame and Saint Mary's College Community 
l___~V~O~L=·~I~II:·~N~o~·~10_o___*---------------------------------F•R-I-D•A-Y-,_M_A_R__c_H_1_4_._19•6-9---__j 
Bowen and the other admirals retired to study 3,300 pages of testimony und write a decision that could single Bucher out for decorution, court martial or no uction ut all. 
SBP showdown today!
Tension In Mideast, war Imminent 
Today's Student Body Presi­that it is Kendall's home hall. Cavanaugh hall, and the off­MIDEAST ( UPI )-Egyptian and Israeli forces battled across the dential election promises to be a Kendall endorsed McKenna yes­campus vote. Of all the halls onSuez Cunal yesterday for the fourth time in six duys with artillery, repetition of Wednesday's, with terday. In Dillon and Fisher we the North Quad which gavemortars and rockets. Warnings of a new generul war were sounded in a fantastically close margin. split the vote, with a slightly Mroz a majority, Cavanaugh hadCairo where Egypt announced the appointment of a chief of staff of In an analysis of the voting it larger number going to the man the most McKenna votes. Boththe armed forces. 
appears that the votes cast for who originally carried the hall. candidates and their backersAn Israeli military communique issued in Jerusalem said Egyptian 
other candidates will be split
guns opened fire along a broad sector of the canal shortly after 
equally for Mroz and McKenna.
snipers on the West Bank fired on Israelis conducting "routine" 
This analysis does not include
activities on the East Bank. 
two vital areas: off-campus
An Israeli spokesman said at least one Egyptian fuel storage tank 
voting, and Cavanaugh Hall.
was set afire by Israeli shell:; and several others were apparently hit. 
When the vote is taken hall by
No mention was made of cusualties or damages on the Israeli side. 
hall, and the way the hall votedPoverty efforts need boost from Nixon is taken into account, a rough W ASIIJN(;T()N (lJPI)-The General Accounting Office (GAO) has estimate can be made of how the 
completed a massive study of the War on Poverty which concludes uncommitted votes will be cast. that present federal efforts to help the poor arc so badly disorganized that the President himself must pull them together. Observer Insight 
The congressional ugency that oversees government spending and 
bv Glen Corso oeprations called for creation of a special White House agency 
Here we go again. It will all be over by tonight.directly under presidential control to coordinate all federal anti­Some arc obvious; for example poverty activities. Morrissey hall. This is Mc­That is the major recommendation aftc ra 15 month, half million Kenna's home territory. There 

Rossie Letter fo RMN
dollar investigation of untipoverty progmms ordered by Congress last were twenty eight votes cast for year. The forrnul (;A() report, 150 to 200 pages long with as many other candidates. It is fairly safe Student Body President issues out of which student 
unrest grows. You did not seemus 40 scparatl' supplementary sections, probably will be issued next to assume that of the twenty Richard Rossie yesterday re­to encourage or to appreciateweek. eight that vote, most will go for leased a copy of a let tcr he sent legitimate forms of dissentMcKenna. The same is true of last week to President Nixon.

Genetic breakthroughs raise concerfl which should be a concern of
Brecn-Phillips, which is Mroz's The letter comments on the let-every American, especially ourWASIIINGTON (lJPI) -A !louse subcommittee was told yester­home hall. Though the vote for ter Nixon sent to Fr. Theodore President, to protect and, yes, today misuse of discoveries in the field of genetics could become "the others was smaller there, almost Heshurgh. 
revere."

greatest chullcngc of the century." all will go to him. This reasoning "Your letter, at least to me Rossie agreed with Fr.
Dr. (;corgc K istiakowsky, one time science advisor to former was extended to all the halls and I say this with the utmost llcsburgh that the university!'resident Dwight D. Eisenhower. told a House foreign affairs which gave one candidate a large respect and concern," wrote must he a place where "civility,subcommittee studying the impuct of future weapons and space plurality. 
Rossie, "portrays a basic Jack of rationality, and decency pre­
Several halls, of course, were understanding to the problems vail." But he also says, "Theredevelopments on U.S. foreign policy not to expect any major 
more difficult: namely, Dillon, Fisher, and Lyons. In Lyons, and conditions that exist on are problems, there arc inequi­"The social implications of this arc rather frightening," he said. many campuses. 
"breakthrough in military technology" before 1980. 
ties, there is a need for basic and
though the added factor which
"Suy II itlcr or Stalin wanted to reproduce hundreds of their own "I feel that you did not ade­
compelled us to give the added fundamental changes in many
replicas." quately address yourself to the (continued on page 2) 
votes to McKenna, was the fact 


The Marrieds: An expert's point of view 
by Ted Price 

This is the last of a five-part series He continued that much of the adjustment ncces­
extcnded kinship group to the "nuclear family," 
sary in a young marriage falls upon the wife's
A frequent counter to arguments against early resulting in an increasingly greater trauma for the shoulders. The husband is able to maintain his life 
h ldl d b. · family when one member leaves it. 
nwrriagc is the prolongation-of-c i too gam tt m with relatively little change. His career, his place of which statistics arc cited which indicate that persons Marriage at any age makes many requirements residence, his peer-group all remain the same. but for today arc undl'r great pressures to remain dependent upon a couple. There is strong indication, however, the wife, who must follow the double standard and upon their families until the middle or even the late that marriage before completing education makes live where her husband Jives, give up her own career twenties. These pressures result primarily from the many special demands upon a couple that are not and entertain her husband's friends, things can urge to stay in college and arc often connected in a made on those who are out of school. There is also become very difficult. 
perceived conflict with the natural tendcndy to marry the complication of being young, perhaps not as sure Conflict may also develop in the marriage from the in the late teens. of yourself as you might wish an; for many a reversal of economic responsibility according to Dr. 
One man who opposes this point of view is Prof. co-desire not to give up the freedom of being young. Barret. When the wife must support the student-Donald Barret, of the Sociology Department who However, if a couple is really determined to make it husband, she may begin to feel her role changing, teaches the courses on "The Family" and "Sexuality work, and possesses the requisite maturity, there is no which is often reciprocated by the husband. Husband and Fertility." Barret feels thai while there may be stopping them. and wife have specific roles in the American family problems resulting from later independence, there is "Yct while you have this dual pressure to remain a and when a couple reverses for a considerable length little evidence to support the theory that marriage part of the family group, there is also the desire for as of time, conflict may be produced. patterns have been changed radically by this ten-much independence as possible after marriage," However, being young may also be a kind of dcncy. In fact, the marriage pattern in the United Barret said. "After all, when young people sec that natural cure for this problem, especially if there has Stales may he a "countertrend." most couples achieve a large amount of indepen-been no time of "normality" before it. 
This evidence of later family indcpl·ndcncc covers dcnce, they do not wish to be the exception to the "A couple who come to school at age, say, 25," the recent period, beginning at about 1900," said Dr. rule." said Dr. Barret, "after having been working on u job Barret. "llowcvcr, while this trend has been develop-He attributed much of the change in marital and out of school, may find it much harder to make ing, at the same time, there has been strong evidence patterns to a concurrent change in the role of the two readjustments than the couple who begin their to indicate that the average age at marriage has parents in the family. He said that contemporary married life in school and must make one. Younger significantly decreased during the same period." parents view their role as more of an advisory people are much more adaptiblc than older ones. 
lie continued, "This may be attributed to the fact capacity after a certain age than one of supreme Between the ages of 20 and 25, people begin to that todull'. young people arc more culturally know-authority. But he said that parents in such an become set in their ways, and after :!5, it becomes lcdgcablc, socially freer, and perhaps more willing to advisory role should be careful when dealing with a increasingly hard to break the pattern which has lake risks. The young arc certainly aware of the risks question of marriage. already been set up." of early marriage, yet arc still willing to give it a try. "We are all aware," he said, "of the fact that the Dr. Barret concluded that the single most impor-
Barret warned, however, against construing his decision to marry is probably a non-rational (though tant factor which seems to lead to successful murriugc 
statement as meaning .that all arguments against early not necessarily irrational) one, and may not be open is an engagement of reasonable length. :;:; marriage were invalid and said that there may be to constructive advice from any source. When a "This in not to suggest that a couple should wait :;:; :;:: several problems created in an early marriage as a young man or woman decide to gel married, their seven or eight years, but marriages of people who :;:; 
1._:!:·:1...:~ ~~~cc~:~su!th~~~~~e~a~n~j~o~~t~;it~~~~~ r~~:\io~~~~~l~~~~ ~~~:~~o"r~;:~•mi~s aa ~~~~~ a~~~1un~f o:~~~~~~~~~~~~;n~~~ ~~~~ k~ov:~y c~~~~h o~:~~:~: ~a~~ ~~~~~i~l~l;~o~ 1:c~~J ·.:.:·=..:i_:::l·:1·.....:: 
porary with the increased pressure for longer family present which is not conducive of orderly, rational problem of knowing the person you want to marry," :.: dependence, is a shrinking of the family from the thought." he said. 
:i:~:=~::::::;:;:;:::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::: 


PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER. FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 1969 


THIS 
WEEKEND.. 
Collegiate JAZZ Festival 
FRIDAY and SATURDAY 
BIG

1:30 and 7:30pm; Stepan Center
COMBOS De Paul Featuring tile Nation's Best College Jazz Groups BANDS 
Ball State Illinois Central 
U. of Illinois Michigan State

Afternoon sessions $1.00
U. of Chicago TICKETS Case Western Reserve
Hvening sessions $3.00
M.I.T. 
Memphis State

All 4 sessions $4.50
Michigan State 

M.l.T. Memphis State 
U. of Illinois

Dining Halls Tonight and at the•door
Northwestern U. of N. Iowa 
U. of Missouri

A STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION PRESENTATION 
B.all State 

Great race nears 


fin ish 
ing. 
The second factor is the a­mount of interest that can be mustered for the second election to be held in two days. 0-C students have poor voting re­cords to begin with, by adding the factors of an election near the beginning of the weekend, and that it's the second one in as many days, there should be a poor turnout. 
A highly speculative variable, 
on tile campus ... fri., march 14 
St. Patty's parade 

The University of Notre Dame marching band will be featured Monday (March 17) in the annual St. Patrick's Day parade in Cleveland, Ohio. 
The band will play for a brief posting of colors ceremony Mon­day morning in Cleveland's Pub­lic Square and then lead the downtown parade at 2 pm. The band will return to Notre Dame Monday night. 
at the college. 

Adler will speak on the sub­ject "Oughts Can Be True and :]oods Can Be Right" at 4: 15 
p.m. in the Saint Mary's Little Theater. -\ )," 1Judicial Board -''­-Dave.; Ryan, Judicial Board Chairman, said yesterday that 
students will have until midnight March 22 to apply for board membership. Interviews will 
then be conducted the following week. 
STUDENT UNION CALENDER 
For the Week of March 14-March 20 Friday, March 14 
1:30 and 7:30 Collegiate Jazz Festival in Stepan Center. Ticket for all four sessions $4.50; single afternoon session $1.00, evening $3.00.
7:00PM 

Studio 11, Washington Hall The Philidor Trio will appear in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Sponsored by the department of music. Admission Free. 8:30PM "Fashion or Life in New York" presented by Notre Dame-St. Mary's Theatre in Washington Hall. Saturday, March 15 9:00AM 
Fencing; Great Lakes Collegiate Fencing Meet. 
9:00 AM Collegiate Jazz Festival Contest (high school
4

to :00PM bands) will be held in Washington Hall. 
12:00 Noon Jazz Mass in Stepan Center. Open to the public. 
1:30 and 7:30 Collegiate Jazz Festival in Stepan Center. 
7:00PM Studio 11, Washington Hall "Fashion or Life in New York" presented by Notre 
8:30 PM Dame-St. Mary's Theatre in Washington Hall. Class of '70-71 Zahm and Keenan Hall Party at the Hillside Barn has been cancelled due to the Collegiate Jazz Festival. 
Sunday, March 16 
8:00 PM Adam Clayton Powell, congressman from New York City, will be the opening speaker in a Black Power Forum sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission with the assistance of several community groups, including the Jaycees and the Mayor's Human Relations Commission. Stepan Center. Open to the pulic. 
2:00-7:00 PM The Contemporary Arts Festival presents "Who's and 9:30 PM Afraid of Virginia Woolf" in Washington Hall. Student tickets $1.00, CAF patrons $.25. Monday, March 17 
8:00PM Bengal Bouts Start. · Tuesday, March 18 
8:00 PM Andrew Hatcher-Dick Gregory debate. Stepan 
Center. Wednesday, March 19 
Bengal Bouts 8:00PM 

Shirley Chisolm, Stepan Center. Thursday, March 20 
7:00 and Documentaries: "Triumph of the Will" will bP.
9:30PM 

shown in the Engineerina Auditorium. Lecture on "Moby Dick" in the Library
8:00PM 

Auditorium and Lounae. 
James Farmer. Morris Civic Auditorium. 
NOTE: AU information that is to be included in the Student Union Calendar must be in the Stu­dent Service Commission Of­fice ( 4-D LaFortune) no later than 2 PM Wednesday. 
which may enter into the voting 
Philosopher Mortimer J. must be in academic and disci­
in the predominantly upper class Adler, director of the Institute plinary good standing and must 
halls will be the fact that a for Philosophical Research, Chi­also submit a letter of applica­healthy number of upperclass­
cago, will return to Saint Mary's tion to Ryan at 228 Badin. The men, depart Du Lac for the 
College today for the fourth in letter should include the appli­weekend, usually on Friday, as 
his series of lectures on moral cant's name, major, year, and early as possible. 
philosophy as a visiting professor reason for seeking membership. 
Rossie letter

ST. PATTY'S DAY 
(continued from page 1) 
areas in American hlgher educa-.


KICKOFF PARTY 
tion." He suggests that the President 
presents 
call student leaders to discuss the problems of universities, "in
THE. BRAND X 
an attempt to understand the contemporary American stude!lt
-Free IRISU Refreshments! 
and problems and alienation he may or may not face." SAT., MARCH 15 $4.50 HILLSIDE BARN Rossie states that "no respon-Buses 7:30 to 8:30 8:30PM sible leader can deny the young 
l------------------------------1 a position of participation," implying that a present denial of participation is the "root cause

Juniors 
of the upheavals and dissatisfac­tion that our society is experi­encing." 
Final day to have your picture taken for the Finally, Rossie supports Fr. Hesburgh's letter to Vice Presi­
1970 Dome. Call 8129 or stop in Room 2-B 
dent Agnew which stated that
of the Student Center TODAY. 
the government should follow a "hands-off" policy with regard to universities. Rossie says, "The 
universities can and will govern itself. 
"What I have said, I have said in all honesty and sincerity and only hope that my remarks will be of some benefit to you." 

Yearbook Staff 
STEWART SANDWICH SERVICE 
Available in every hall on campus 
Stewart Sandwich 
Service 
925 Blaine 
232-2625


Dean Martin 
The Observer is published daily 
dS M&t Helm rn TheWreclcin Crew 
g 
during the college semester except vacations by the students of the
CO·Siarrrng 
University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may
Elke Sommer-Sharon Tate Nancy Kwan· Nigel Green· Tina Louise 
be purchased for $10 from The 
v, , 1'' ;.n t·rl :rt,l, nrii]IJI lt·d by Huqo Mnn!I•I1P~tll :Jtll'~'<nDirl~ by Wrllrarn MrGtwrn BdSPd on the rrrwrl ov [)or•dlrl >l.J~'''IOII 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame 
'i'·rr~"" ,,, .• ,,~A•Ierr n··-r.le~byl'··· '"''" AM•·dd••vCI<•rdePorluiP IECHNICOLOif ~ Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 
(continued from page 1) 

have been campaigning exten­sively in the hall. Last night it was the scene of a debate be­tween the candidates. It is very likely that the outcome of Cava­naugh's vote hinges on how well the respective candidates come across in the debate. 
The off-campus vote is a much trickier question. The strength of their impact will depend very heavily on the turn-nut. There are two major factors against a heavy off-campus vote. The first, and possibly most im­portant is that it's Friday. A large number of 0-C students, if they stick around for the week­end, will probably not venture onto campus today. There is the possibility that many of those who do, instead of staying on campus to study, will leave for their homes immediately after classes, lessening the voter turn­ant in the afternoon and even-Adler speaks 
Interested undergraduates 

PAGE 3
FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 1969 THE OBSERVER 

















USED CARS 



COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL OPENS 
See-ED MORAN (N.D. '69) at John's Auto Sales
economics prevents greater ex­At H:OO P.M. Thursday night, ci<Jns <Jnd educators: Clark Terry head of the music department of posure for jazz than it has been
the Collegiate Jazz Festival of the Tonight Show; D<1n Mor­Notre Dame lligh School in 702 Mishawakarccc1vmg. Mr. Ernie Wilkinsopened its weekend of activities genstern, the Editor of Down­Niles, Illinois. 
phone: 255-9342spokt' prior to the symposium

with a jazz symposium entitled neat Magazine; Gary McFarland, The panelists focused on the about similar topics and the role
"The Jazz Audience: Where is jazz vihrist; Ernie Wilkins, com­problem of just why jazz is not of the black musician in jazz r of Cedar & Mishawaka
It." The symposium was ;1eld in poser-arranger; Rev. Carl Hager, as popu I<Jr as it might be. It was ;\ ve's.
before and today at Professor
the Kellogg Center for Continu­C.S.C., the head of the Notre often mentioned that jazz has Mcdavo's Afro-Amcric<Jn Cultureing Education and featured a Dame Music School; and Rev. gone through stages or cycles of 
ALSO: New Suzuki Bikes 
panel of prominent jazz musi-(;corge Wiskcrchcn, C:S.C., the popularity :wd lhat right now, Seminar in O'Shaughnessy Hall. especially on the college campus, 
IVER PARK Mon·Fri...5:30, 8:20
jazz is being eclipsed by the new 
MISHAWAKA AVE, at 30th Sat-Sun..2:30, 5:30, 8:40 
brc<Jk-throughs in rock music, 
PHONE 288-8488

Committee on Biafra to 
The panelists also agreed that it 
10TH CfNTURY FOX PREIENTS 

is mainly a problem of lack of
Try new approach AROBERT WISE FILM 
exposure for jazz music <Jnd th<Jt when the "younger generation" JULIE ANDREWS 
of, a petition on campus which IS A DIFFERENT JULIE ANDREWS IN
is exposed to jazz they do not
Chairman Mel Wesley of the forwarded President TilE 111\IEH UF i\will he to favorably react. Mention was
Notre Dume St. Mary's Fmer­Nixon. The petition will ask him 
made of I he jazz programs pre­
gcncy Committee on Biufra ycs­to usc his influence in the fol­~HTJ\11!' 
sented in the K inctic PI<Jyground
terduy announced thut the TODD·AO • COLOR BY DELUXElowing three ways: to procure an 
in Chicago, thl' Fillmore East in
orgunization has diverted its immediate halt of arms shipment 
New York, and mention was I
main purpose from money­to Nigeria; to establish a cease­
also made of the valid fusion of
raising, and that it will insteud fire and negotiations; and to call 
the jazz and rock idioms as done 
concentrate on the raising of publicly for donations of food, Pancake Supper
hy the "Blood, Sweat, & Tears."
nat ion a I interest und concern medicine, and the like." Friday, March 14
The panelists also commented 
over the Nigerian crisis. Wesley said that, if nothing is 
Miller

that there is a much grea tcr jazz 5-8 p.m.
"Last semestcr, under the soon done about the Biafran audience in the black com­First Methodist Churchchairmanship of grad student situation, "we will try to raise 
munity and a real appreciation
Richard Fscohales, we c<Jrried on 333 North Main Street
vigil protest masses in the major 
for Jazz, hut that unfortunately
a fund-m ising drive for the South Bend $1.00 
Makes it
U.S. cities during 1-:astertime." Biafrans," Wesley said; this cam­
lie stressed the Fmergency Com­paign. he <Jdded, only garnered 
mittee's wish that, in the words nine hundred dollars. "Dick 
of its petition, "participuting 
SPECIAL STUDENT TOURS 
Right!

rca Iized that moncy-ralsmg 
nations in the conflict will put wasn't feasible; he then hit on morality and co1npassion above the idea of writing letters to political and economic prin­
Of 

corpomtions asking that money, ciples." food, airplanes, etc. be sent to bstern Africa." l·:seobales soon SAVE! 
EUROPE
found himself pressed by his 
studies, however, and left the on New & Used Cars leadership to Wesley, a sopho-1969 GTO more. 400 cc H.D. 3sp., wide oval, 
The Committee's long-range radio, buckets, heater, custom aim is to uid in effecting an end interior. ........... $2824 
College and High School Type Vacation Travel 
to the Biafran conflict; its immc-1969 FIREBIRD 
at Kindergarten Prices!
diate intent is to stimul<Jte the 350 cc, 3sp., wide ov<Jls, radio, provision of as much relief as huckcts. custom interior ...$2649 possible to the suffering Nigerian See DAN TUTKO (class of 
8Countries-22 Days-Only s498 
people. "Our present project," • 6 7 ) a-t W E L T E R stated Wesley, "is the circulution .-------------+..fD~TIAC, 3:30 to closin~ 

Includes Jet Round Trip from N.Y. See london, Brussels, Amsterdam, Cologne, Rhine Steamer Cruise, Heidel­berg, Ulm, Munich, Salzburg, Vienna, Venice, Florence, 
NEED ECONOMICAl. 
Rome, Milan, lugano, lake lucerne, Paris. Also includes Practically all Meals, Tour Escorts, All Transfer Tips and
TRANSPORTATION? 
Taxes, luxurious Armchair Motorcoaches. 
Other Student Tours to Spain, Greece, Italy, Scandina­Large assortment of small 66 Triumph Chopper $795 
via, The Mediterranean Countries, Russia. llondas & Yamahas start­68 441 Victor Spec. $795 ing at only $100 68 Bonneville......$1150 
Call or write for free brochures. 
ON CAMPUS 
Finance & Insurance on tile spot! 
Honda of Michiana 220 E. Jeff., South Bend 
OPEN TIL 8 DAILY 
VOTE 
•
' 

SBP RUN-OFF ELECTION TODAY IN THE HALLS OFF CAMPUS OFFICE 11:30-1:00 BASEMENT LAFORTUNE 
'I
5:30 -7:00 9am -7pm EMINDER: SENIORS ARE ELIGIBLE TO VOTE 

r 
FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 1969
PAGE 4 
THE OBSERVER 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 


Irish fencers 
defend 
Sixty of the nation's finest fencers invade Notre Dame's Athletic and Convocation Center this Saturday, March 15, for the third annual staging of the Great Lakes Fencing Tournament. 
!lost and defending champion Notre Dame will be among the ten colleges and universities competing for team and individual titles. Invitations have been accepted by last year's runner-up Wayne State, Uni­versity of Wisconsin (Parkside), Case Tech, Western Reserve, Tri-State, Chicago, Detroit, Cleveland State, and Chicago Circle. 
Each entrant will be repre­sented by two fencers in each of the three weapons with prelim­inary bouts scheduled by begin at 9:00 a.m. in the Center's north dome. The finals in the foil, epee, and sabre will com­mence at I: 30 p.m. 
Notre Dame's Fighting Irish fencers, who finished their dual-meet season with a I6-I mark, will be represented by two of the top seeded entrants in the epee and foil. Joe DePietro, the senior epeeist, earned the second seed in his specialty with a 22-6 season mark while teammate Bob Babineau's 27-4 record in the foil claimed the second rank­ing in that weapon. DePietro will team with John Albright (I 6-9) or Art Dobson (I 8-1 0) and Babineau will be joined by Lou Emerson (I 5-14). In the sabre, Roger llolzgrafe (28-7) and 
To NCAA 
Coach Alex Wilson will take a 
seven-man team to the NCAA 
indoor track and field champion­
ships this weekend in Detroit's 
Cobo Hall. 
Sprinter Bill Hurd and high 
jumper Ed Broderick earned 
points for the Irish in last win­
ter's finals and are repeat entries. 
llurd placed sixth in the 60-yard 
dash last year but is coming off 
winning performances in the 
Central Collegiate champion­
ships and IC4-A meet. 
Broderick had his best indoor 
effort of the season at the IC4-A 
meet in Madison Square Garden 
Saturday with a 6-9 leap. He 
placed fifth at last year's NCAA. 
The Irish have entered senior 
Joe Quigley and sophomore 
Rick Wohlhuter in the 880-yard 
run. 
crown 
Bob Mendes (I 4-7) will field the Irish hopes. 
Other outstanding fencers slated to display their wares in the Tournament include: West­ern Reserve's top-seeded John Nadas (19-2) in the epee; Ty­rone Simmons of Detroit in the sabre (40-3) and Wayne State's David Aumock and Raymond Feu! who boast identical 39-6 marks; and in the foil, John Nishimura from Chicago Circle (34-4) and Detroit's Fred Hoo­ker (36-7). 
The Tournament's bout com­mittee will consist of Notre Dame's Mike DeCicco, Chair­man, Wayne State's Istvan Danosi, Detroit's Richard Perry, and Leon Pickens of Chicago Circle. 

Bengal Bouts open Monday 
The 1969 Bengal Bout boxing tournament begins at 8 p.m. Monday with 18 quarterfinal fights in the Convo's South Dome. 
Nine gladiators battled their way onto Monday's card by winning prelims Wednesday. Twenty-seven others were seeded, making a field of 36 athletes to vie for titles in nine weight divisions. 
There will be l 8 quarterfinal bouts Monday, 18 semis Wednes­day and nine finals Friday. Stu­dent tickets, at $2 for all three nights, are available at the Convo or from any boxer. 
Wednesday's results: 
125-Jack Griffin decisioned 
Paul Hagenback; Charles Fabian 
decisioned Dan McCarthy. 
135-Tom Gould decisioned 
Jim McGreath; Tom Kress 
decisioned Bob Prendergast; Paul 
Partyka kayoed Larry K usick, 
one round. 
145--Claudio Cerulli 
decisioned Wayne Tauber. 
I 55-Val Bernabo decisioned 
Pat Downs; Jim Lusk decisioned 
Jay Maher. 
160-Tom Wagoner TKO'd 
Vince Roboletto, second round. 
165 --Ken McCandless de­
cisioned Mike Bushman; Tom 
Dolack decisioned Dave Brandt. 
175-Tom Loftus decisioned 
Mike Casanova. 
I 85-Joe Renice decisioned 
Bill Moran; Pat Egger decisioned 
Jim Kunkel. 


POMPANO BEACH, Fla. (UP!)-The white 
haired, elaerly gent in the front row of the third 
base stands nudged his companion. 
"See that fella out there?" he said, pointing 
toward the mound. "He was the last pitcher ever 
to beat Sandy Koufax." 
The old boy knew his baseball, but his buddy was right there with him. 
"And ain't done a damn thing since," he said. 
Had he heard the exchange bet ween the two old gaffers, Jim Palmer would have agreed with them. Palmer put his name into the record book in 1966 when at the age of 20 he pitched Baltimore to a 6-0 win over the Los Angeles Dodgers and became the youngest man in World Series history ever to toss a shutout. 
Now less than three years later, he's fighting simply to keep his name on the Baltimore roster. Arm trouble and back miseries have contributed 
to making the 23-year-old right hander practically forget how wonderful it all was back in 1966. When he won 15 games for the Orioles, turned into one of their big World Series heroes and had the whole world in his baseball glove. 
Since then, Palmer has drifted back down to the minors. Way down. He was 3-1 with Baltimore in I967 and other than that he won only one game, with Miami of the Florida State League, which is 
as low as you can go on the baseball ladder. 
The lanky, blue-eyed New Yorker began seeing the first rays of daylight with Santruce of the Puerto Rican League last winter when he posted a 6-1 record there, one of his victories being a 
no-hitter against Mayaguez. Palmer has looked good here in Florida this spring. Not sensational, but good enough so that Baltimore manager Earl Weaver is talking about him in terms of his possible fifth starter. "He's really in the picture now," says Weaver. 
Wittliff grabs 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Comeback try at age 23 
Two freshmen and junior Phil I Wittliff walked off with Notre 
Dame's post season hockey 
awards as the Fighting Irish 
concluded their first varsity year 
with a 16-8-3 record. 
W i t tl i f f, a f o r m er prep 
all-America from Port Huron, 
Mich., was elected captain for 
the I 969-70 season and 
captured the Notre Dame 
scoring championship with 4 7 
points on 31 goals and 16 assists. 
Freshman Dick Tomasoni, a 
goal tender from Chisholm, 
Minn., was named most valuable 
player; freshman Jim Cordes, a 
wing from Farmington, Minn., 
most improved. 
A linebacker on Ara 
"He's told us his arm and back arc fine but we've been fooled so often before, we want to make sure he's okay. Of course there's a little bit off his fast ball now but he's still good and quick. The only question is his control." 
Palmer made his first start of the exhibition season against Washington Thursday, pitched three innings of scoreless ball and got a passing grade. It's hard to tell against the Senators. They're not rude to many pitchers. 
Before he went out to pitch against them, Palmer sat in the stark white-walled dressing room provided for the visiting team here and talked about his roller coaster ride. 
"The hardest thing to do is to pick yourself up and start climbing back once you've tasted success," he said. "On the way back you remember a lot of things." 
For example? 
"Well, for one thing, I remember my first year with the club in I965. I was a protected player and I more or less knew I'd make the club, which I did. In I966, my arm was fine and having been with the club the entire year before, I didn't have any worries to speak of. Then in the spring of 196 7, coming off the World Series and all, I felt I had it made." 
Palmer laughed. It was a small laugh, the kind without any humor in it or the kind that says nobody ever really has it made. 
"As far as I know, my arm is fine now," Palmer said. "But I have to show them that. I know it's a challenge every time I go out there. Why? Because I know what everybody is thinking. They think 'this guy js finished."' 
It was nearly time for the game now and Palmer 
got up to start for the Orioles. Before he left he made a strange admission. Jim Palmer, a series hero at 20 and a comeback 
hopeful at 23, said he was a little nervous. 
top ice award 
Parseghian's football team in the fall, Wittliff passed freshman Kevin Hoene to take the scoring title with a 16-point flurry in the last four games of the season. The captain-elect notched I 0 goals and assisted on six other to edge Hoene by a point for scoring honors. 
Tomasoni was the Irish 
ironman in the nets this season 
Dee to coach 

Johnny Dee of Notre Dame and Guy Strong of Eastern Kentucky were named today to direct the Indiana and Kentucky College All-Stars for their fourth annual basketball series next month. 
Dec will coach the top Indiana stars and Strong will guide the Kentucky club for the benfit games Aprill II in Free­dom Hall, Louisville, and April 
12 in Hinkle Fieldhouse, Indian­apolis. 
Sponsoring the star-studded hardwood attractions will be Scrtoma Charities, Inc., which will donate the proceeds to aid the underpriviliegcd and retard­ed children of Indiana and Ken­tucky. To date, the organization has contributed over $25,000 to help these youngsters. 
In accepting the assignment, Dec indicated his main objective i~ to put the Indiana contingent back into the winning column. 
starting all but one of Notre Dame's 27 games and averaging 
32.9 saves per game. 
Cordes, who finished the season with a share of fourth place in team scoring with wing John Womack scored 12 goals and assisted on 14 others for 26 points. Among his dozen tallies were five winning goals--a team leading figure. 
Hoping to raise the calibre of play to NCAA championship strength next year, the Irish have scheduled Boston College and Colorado College for home and home series and will meet Army, Dartmouth and Penn (among 
'Others) in tournament play. 
Seniors on this year's team were defenseman Dean Daigler and Eric Norri and goalie John Barry. 
Grapplers enter Four • I tourney 
Notre Dame will be repre­sented by a six-man contingent at the Four-! wrestling tourna­ment at Oxford, 0., this week­end. 
Miami of Ohio officials expect 250 entries from 25 schools to compete for individual and team championships. 
Wrestling for Notre Dame will be: Tom Ciaccio at I I 5 pounds, Keith Giron at I 23, Jim Hansen at 145, Greg Abrams at 160, Bill Hasbrook at I 77, and Pat Mud­ron in the heavyweight division. 









