
VOL. IV, No. 18 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1969 
Vance Hartke attacks news media 

! 
i 
~ ~ 

U.S:Russla closing gap 
by Tim Westman 
Will the two world giants -· the United States and the Soviet Union -eventually come toget­her? Is there any real hope for global peace? If so, what kind? These were some of the ques­tions posed and answered last night by Dr. Philip E. Mosely of Columbia University in a discus­sion entitled, "U.S. -Soviet Detente: Is it Inevitable?" 
The lecture, sponsored by the Student Union Academic Com­mission and the East European Studies Department, began at 
8:00 p.m. in the Library Audi­torium and covered the spec­trum of American -Russian rela­tions from the end of World War ll to the present time. 
Dr. Mosely, an experienced political scientist and diplomat, open by stating his belief that a closer relationship between the 
U.S. and Russia is inevitable. He then proceeded to describe how relations between the two na­tions can and are evolving from the cold war to coexistence, and from coexistence to detente. 
"Each side feels the need to go beyond coexistence, because we still live in suspicion; our re­lations rest on mutual deterrents of untried nuclear weapons," Mosely said. 
Mosely cited reasons for the current "thaw" in the air as combat fatigue from the tension, cost, and risk of continual ar­ming; hope for a single, overall solution to global strife; fear of nuclear catastrophe; and concern over alliances that no longer pro­vide protection. 
In Mosely's opinion, more things could be done to further the slowly developing friendship which is now unsteady. Fore­most among them would be actual trade between the two countries and an exchange pro­gram involving Russian and American citizens. 
(continued on page 2} 
by Mark Nelson 
Vance Hartke, Democratic 
U.S. Senator from Indiana, spoke yesterday in the Memorial Library Auditorium on the inadequacies of the news media. 
Senator Hartke, sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission, attacked the news media for its shallow coverage in 
reporting local  and  national  
events.  
Hartke  said,  "Radio,  

television, and newspaper coverage treat breaking news events as one WOl!ld view an iceberg: the underlying part of the story, which is the most important part, is left unnoticed. The media reports only the obvious details of the story, without giving any reasons or background." 
Hartke also challenged the type of news stories that are "brought into our homes daily." He said that due to the media, "we are forced to see things that we do not wish to see. News media output is like being trapped in a hearse three times a day." 
The Senator criticized local media for "hiding under the umbrella," and said it should produce more in the area of local events. 
Hartke, an advocate of peace in Viet Nam since 1965, commented on the upcoming Viet Nam Moratorium. Hartke said, "I think the Moratorium is just another part of the total opposition against the war." 
"However, in a war which the President said cannot gain military victory, I believe the Moratorium is a good way to show our dissatisfaction, and therefore, as long as it remains non-violent, has a very worthwhile purpose." 
Hartke went on to say that "it is impossible to see victory of any kind in Viet Nam while we still support dishonorable dictators in Saigon." 
Senator Hartke, who saw the withdrawal of Lyndon Johnson from the 1968 election long before it was announced, predicted that "the Republicans will not re-elect a President," and said the probable prime Democratic candidates would be Senators Muskie and McCarthy, and Hubert Humphrey. 


Windows smashed by explosives 
by Tom Bornholdt 
Several campus windows were smashed by explosives over the weekend; it was revealed yesterday afternoon by Director of Security, Arthur Pears. 
Four windows in Badin and nine in the laundry were destroyed by a powerful pocket-sized explosive known as an M80. The M80 had a lengthy 
fuse  and  was  taped  to  the  
windows before lit.  
Another  was  taped  to  the  
window  of  a  maid's  car.  The  

M80 exploded just as the maid was approaching the car to get in. 
Though no one has been hurt by any of these explosions, 
Director Pears warned that anyone in the room during such a detonation could be badly mangled by the razor sharp 
fragments. The M80 blew a basketball sized hole in the windows, twisted and tore the venetian blinds, and showered the room with glass splinters. 
"The guy who did it would have to be out of his damn fool mind," said Pears concerning the 
bomber. Asked of the possibility of a M80 detonating in the midst of a crowd or thrown at a student, Pears answered, "That 
thing could blow off someone's 
leg." Director Pears admitted that he had no leads on the culprit as yet. 
Anyone having information concerning these bombings is asked to contact the campus security force. 
However, there were fewer incidents of vandalism to automobiles this weekend, according to Pears. Destruction 
to school property was also considerably less except for the window smashings. No reason was offered for the decrease. 
In a news conference held before the speech, Hartke said he would vote against confirmation of Judge Clement Haynsworth to the U.S. Supreme Court, joining Indiana's other Senator, Birch Bayh, who has been leading the opposition to the nomination. 
Hartke told the news conference that the nomination is in serious danger and that he sees the controversy as a non-partisan issue. 
The Indiana senator also said: 
There will be more in-flight air collisions such as the Sept. 9 crash near Indianapolis which killed 83 persons. He said air traffic controllers are working under too much stress and strain. 

The largest increase in unemployment for one month since 1961 "is the bitter fruit of the Nixon Administration's misguided economic policies." 
The Student Union Academic Commission has also scheduled talks by Edward Teller and New York Senator Charles Goodell in the near future. 
Goodell will speak Friday at 

3:00 in the Stepan Center, and Teller, developer of the hydrogen bomb, will speak October 16 at 8:00 in the library auditorium. 

Classes scheduled at Saint Mary's 
Msgr. John J. McGrath, presi­dent of Saint Mary's College, issued a statement yesterday concerning St. Mary's policy on the Vietnam war moratorium October 15th. 
"On October 7, 1969, the Academic Affairs Council of Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana, received two stu­dent petitions. Two hundred fifty··three students commit themselves to all that the Na­tional Moratorium entails. They 


stand in opposition to the war, individually and as a Christian Fr. McGrath community, and request that 
the nature of a college to be theclasses be cancelled on October locus of controversy and debate;15. Two hundred thirty-three it should not engage in tacticsstudents request that classes be designed to further either side ofcancelled on that day for educa­a political dispute."
tion and increasing awareness on the issues of the Vietnam War. 

"In view of the above con­Approximately a thousand stu­sideration and after consultation dents did not sign either peti­with the Student Affairs Coun­
tion." cil, the Academic Affairs Coun­
"Numbers alone do not deter­cil has adopted the following mine the rightness nor wrong­policy in regard to the Vietnam ness of a moral position. No Moratorium: judgment, therefore, is passed on 1. On the I Sth of October, the position of those who the meeting facilities of Saint oppose American involvement in Mary's College will be made the Vietnam war. Neither can available (subject to the usual the sincerity or the Christianity conditions of order) for the use of those who do not find the of faculty, students, and their issue quite so clear be called into guests for such discussions as question. Honest differences they desire. about this matter are widespread 2. Classes at Saint Mary's in our academic community." College will meet as scheduled. 
"Institutions of higher educa­As stated in the college bulletin, tion must afford their academic responsibility for attendance communities the opportunity to rests with the student and ab­engage in dialogue on the vital sences on October 15 will be issues of the modern world. It is treated in a normal manner." 
SLC meets today 
The Student Life Council has a meeting scheduled for 4: 15 this afternoon to discuss a pro­posal concerning the Vietnam Moratorium. 
The fear that the Council would not have a quorum to dis­cuss the bill was dispelled Tues­day when SLC Chairman Prof. James Massey stated that mem­bers of all three of the groups on the council had promised to make extreme efforts to attend the session. Some of the faculty and administrative representa­tives had promised to forgo other commitments to attend the meeting in order to insure that the bill could be discussed. 

Prof. Massey issued a new statement yesterday in light of Father Walsh's statement about the University's attitude on the Moratorium. 
In it Massey said that there was a distinct possibility of a lack of a quorum today since some members of the Council had informed him that they felt that Father Walsh's statement eliminated the necessity for SLC' action on Roickle's bill. They felt that they would then fulfill their earlier commitments. 
PAGE 2 THE OBSERfJER. 
time for a field day. Most groups met for other social activities -·such as painting posters with Dillon Hall for the Northwestern pep rally, or playing touch foot­ball with Cavanaugh. 
Also arranged were meetings on academic information. Sister Jeanne Finske-Acadernic Dean, Sister Immaculata-Dean of Stu­dents, and Mrs. Mary Martucci­Director of Counseling, held conferences with students. They presented the required courses for a degree and information on the grade average needed to make the dean's list, pass or fail. 
Pam Carey, Academic Affairs Commissioner, included infor­mation on pass/fail courses and the Scholastic Course Evaluation Booklet. Many students con­sidered these a wasteful repeti-
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9,1969 


. . (contmued from page~) ". . 
• 
"In general," ~e said? l,Im~ta­tlons on the So~et_ ~mons ~Ide rather than ours mhibit rneanmg­tion of the manual, and gave up on groups then. Several have stated, however, that Pam Car­ey's meeting was more open to questions and did give relevant facts. Lonnie Donahue pointed out that while groups had been proposed to avoid entire class convocations, actually only many mini-convo's resulted. 

The exact status of many groups now is nil. At a feedback session, enthusiastic group lead­ers bemoaned the fact that few frosh carne to the called meet­ings-either from lack of time or interest. 
Miss Donahue states that each group will have to choose its own course. She adds: "This year is experimental, and we're learning from our mistakes for next year." As an example, since the functions of senior student 

Dr. Mosely cite~ AB~ argument
ful progress m these areas. 

The Columbia political ~cientist also offered a ~ovel ~d~a m support of an Anti-Ballistic Missile system for both world 
You don't have to play Hamlet to be in show business. Or write hot copy to be in the ad business. Or design moon rockets to be in aerospace. 
The CPA has become a key man in virtually every type of enterprise. 
Why? Because financial and busi­ness affairs require keen minds to come up with new concepts in fact­gathering, problem-solving and. com­municating economic information. 
So if problems intrigue you, and if you have an aptitude for imagina­tive, concentrated thinking, you might make a good CPA. 
You might work in a public ac­counting firm, in industry, education or government. Or you may even de­cide to open a firm of your own. 
What other profession offers so many diverse opportunities? 
Talk with your faculty adviser. He can tell you about the courses you can take to earn your CPA certificate soon after graduation. Or you might want to do graduate work. 
We've prepared a special booklet that tells the whole CPA story. We'll be glad to send it to you. Drop a card or note (mentioning the name of your college) to: Dept. 15, AICPA, 666 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10019. 
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants 
advisors and group leaders often overlap, these will have to be redefined and coordinated. 
Last weekend Miss Donahue and sophomore Anne Schleider, next year's group chairman, at­tended "New Approaches in Orientation-Develop men tal Theory." This group dynamics conference at Michigan State University underscored what GO had intended to present. Lonnie notes simply, "There is more to orientation than where the buildings are." 
She still feels that there is a definite purpose and potential for experiences in the GO Pro­gram. For a group to draw close together is the ideal. Each wi!l have to decide soon whether to remain together at all. 
powers . 
"If we could get effective ABM's on both sides, we could start concentrating on scaling down offensive weaponry," he 
commented. 
In concluding, Mosely warned that peace in terms of "no con­flict whatsoever" is unlikely. 
"Conflicts, however, are likely," he said, "but we must try to limit and contain them. Detente is the best thing we have, so we must cherish it and try to make it meaningful and permanent." 
Ed itor to speak 
John Seigenthaler, editor of the Nashville Tennesean, will speak at 8 p.m. Thursday (Octo­ber 9) in the University of Notre Dame Memorial Library Audi­torium. 

HUNGRY? 
FORA JUICY STEAK? 

Half-price Offer 
Now, through Oct. 14, this coupon lets you pay for a steak dinner at half-price when you have the first one at the regular low prices from$ .99-to $1.89. What a deal! Broiled to order, delicious. 
•~·····························
.
.
.
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
.­
-
.
-
-
.­


--STEAK HOUSE
. 
-
-
-
-
-
-1516 N. Ironwood Dr. 
-
-• South of Campus between
•
.• South Bend Ave. & Edison R
•
• 
: Coupon for Second Dinner of 
• Same value at Half·Price Good only thru Oct. 14, 1969 
The Observer is published daily
during the college semester except
vacations by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may
be purchased for $ 8 from The 
Observer, Box 11, 1-.Jotre Dame,
Ind., 46556. Second class postage
paid, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 


ZNEO~ERu.ER ---------------~-------------PA_GE~3 
Gandhi's comrade relates experiences 
by Jim Graif 
Dr. Amiya Charkravarty, a 

former assod:1tc of Mahatma 
Gandhi spoke on his experiences 
with c;andhi a11d the non-violent 
approach Oct. 2nd in the library 
auditorium. 
II!~ lopi~ "''~S "The ~elcvance 

of (,<~nrllu 111 he Moder~ Age-A 
Study in Non-violent 
Techniques." 
lie began by explaining that 

(;andhi's genius consisted in the 
fact that he presented an 
approach to problems rather 
than answns to them. He 
hdicvcd thai (;ardhi didn't try 
to be a for:;cful dictator but 
instead tried to lt~ad from "within.' Gandhi ::dmitted his 
1 
Jistakes fl~Causc his primary 
ycal was always to seek the 
truth. 
Dr. Chakravarty said th:;t 

Canr':.i ~ell that one must 
beconll' involved in lift• and in its 
problt•ms. Hr. pointed out that 
(;and hi o fl e r, '' sk e d the 
questiuns: "W:tat <lid I do lu 
tllake th1s happen?" and "What 
am 1 doir.g about it?" 
The Professor of Philosophy 
at Statt• llnivnsity College, New 
l'ult1.. New York felt that 
paticm·e was a ncct'ssary virtue 
in Candhi's philosophy. He said 
that c;:mdhi did not condemn 
ignorant laws hut would try to 
work around lhcm. 
me !hods extensivcly in the battle for black civil rights. 
Another panel member, Notre Dame student Tim MacCarry, felt that (;<~ndhi did things which seemed absurd in order to nwke people take a good look <~I themselves. 
Dr. Bernard Norling, Associate Professor of History, who said that he is often called the devil's advocate, reminded the audience that force shapes foreign policy. He maintained that non-violence could only take effed in free societies such as the United States and the British Commonwealth nations. In a totalitarian n<~tion the movement would he quickly snuffed out. Christianity would not have survived if it had pmdiced non-violence, he said, "it remained in existence only because it was able to win wa~s 
against  forces  which  tried  to  
destroy it."  
Dr.  John  Yoder  of  the  

Department of Theology felt that everyone was measuring 

relevance by its effectiveness 
whereas  he  understood  it  to  
m e a  n  i n t e grit y  and  
responsibility.  

The lecture and discussion were part of the India Week Progr~m~ sponsored by the lodia 
AssociatiOn of Notre Dame. The coordinators of the event were Rev. Daniel O'Neil C.S.C., 

Director of the Office of International Student Services, and by Dr. Charles McCarthy, Chairman of the Notre Dame Program in Non-Violence. 
Student 1·deas sought •or cafeteria 
1
1 
by Dave Fromm 
Edmund Price, Director of Food Services at Notre Dame, outlined yesterday some of the cbanaea he would like to IJCC in 
and understanding. His office is in the South Dining Hall but he often stops at the north branch for breakfast on his way to work, and for dinner on his way home. During these visits he ob­serves students and procedures, speaks with students, and tries 
to be helpful. 
"If you don't like something, all you have to do is tell me," he said. 
"We can put anything within reason on that menu. We just 
have to know what the majority of the students want," he con­tinued. 
Price would like to create some interest in the dining halls but needs student cooperation.
He suggested that some evening 

Price is hoping for renovation and improvement in the physical facilities of the dining halls. For a capital investment of about $14,000, a conveyor belt 
apparatus can be obtained to in­crease donut production and to cut down labor costs. 

Price also wants to improve the lighting in the South Dining Hall. 
"Atmosphere, appearance, and attitude have a lot to do with the enjoyment of food and these things don't cost too much. But they can make or break it," he said. 
"The food we buy is good but I think we can improve the way we present it," he continued. 

,_ __..__ 

'l"ht• speaker said that Gandhi !topL·d that his methods would 

in the near future be set aside as create oL·casions for the cxt:r~o:isc 
Italian Night to change the pace. of truth. By allowing truth to 
Students would be offered all 








ANewLeather
the spaghetti and meatballs they somL' of the evil in the world Mr. Edmund Price 
prevail in small ways Gandhi felt 
care to eat. Perhaps even a could be redeemed. the dining halls. Gypsy violinist could be pro­cured for the affair.
A panel discussion followed Mr. Price is very interested in the speech. Each member 
"But the effort has to come 

for Fashion
what the student thinks. He t'XJHl'sscd his thoughts on wishes that more studenls would from both sides," Price empha­(;andhi and non-violence. confront him with both com­sized. 
Mr. Jesse Dickinscn, 
plaints and suggestions. Students would be responsible vice-chairman of the Indian:• Price frequently eats with the for decorating the dining halls 
JE53nuft~fl~Thl 
('i,vil Rights Commission students in the dining halls in or­for some organization of the poir.lcd out that Dr. Marlin 
der to !!enerate communication meal. Lui her King used (;andhi's 
VJr~llil 

Father Harvey is named to assist 
...by _b!~Ar
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONT4CT LENSES 
THE SHE R LAND BLDG .··132 S. MICHIGAN ST ... 1\..l::ntral ~-14(1811

Vice President 
The Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C'.S.C., former joint head of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's 

Main Office: 13!> N. Wabash Ave.··Chicaqo 

Theater, has been named an administrative assistant to the Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice president of Notre Dame. 
Father Harvey continues on Icave of absence from his academiL: duties. lie recently concluded a sabbatical leave during which he visited a number of drama departments and repertory companies in the United States and England. A veteran of 40 years in theater work both as a layman and a priest, he produced nearly SO 

NOTRE DAME 
campus plays and musicals since 
ITS PEOPLE AND 

he became director of Notre 
ITS LEGENDS 

Dame's University Theater in 
the softly flecked
by FRANCIS WALLACE 

1954 and joint head of the 
This is the story of the 

fashion leather that complements
University of Notre DameNotre Dame Saint Mary's 

the lighter tans and olives of today's colorful styles.
from its founding to the

Theater I 2 years later. 
present-the story of its 

Distinctive. Contemporary. A MUST for the coordi· 
people, its traditions, its

A 194 7 graduate of Notre 
nated wardrobe. British Tan ... by Douglas.
sports, its great events

Dame, Father Harvey was 
and achievements. and ordained" in 195 I and received 

its new expectations. his M.A. in theater from 
1067 ............ $6.95 

CHECKS WELCm.1E WITH I.D.
Catholic University of America two years later. 
BECKER'S MEN'S SHOES
'67 Fiat convertible 
Excel/en t condition must sell· $/395 or hest offer. 

208 S. Michigan St.
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Phone ~34-6639. 





THE OBSERrJER. 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1969 





THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO DE SAPIO, Editur DONALD r HOLLIDAY, Publisher 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Disarm a·m ent 
The pre-amble to the Soviet-American draft on an agreement to limit the spread of nuclear arms on the seabed states the hope that the agreement will be a first step toward general and complete disarmament. 
We hope those words are not shallow. If one is to be totally realistic about 
the situation however, the chances for such an agreement are probably very slight since nations are usually reluctant to take a major step which involves such risks. 
Men have always been willing to take risks. Columbus's voyage was a gigantic risk, as was the walk on the moon. Almost every business venture is a risk of similar proportions for that one man's future. Most sporting activities find their excitement in the degree of risk involved. 
Mankind as a whole though has moved very cautiously when it comes to matters of war and peace. History has shown that men are more likely to step up military operations than risk a "peace offensive." Trust, and the risk involved in it, are ideas out of the question. 
We feel that the risk of nuclear oblivion for the human race outweighs any risk of establishing workable agreements with the Soviets in the field of arms limitations. There are means of providing adequate safeguards for national defense without perpetuating the senseless and expensive growth of military arsenals. 
We support closer co-operation with both the Soviet Union and China in all fields of endeavor. We hope that the three super powers can begin to work together to avoid the insanity of war and national rivalry. 
We hope that immediate efforts are made by the United States and the Soviet Union to reach an agreement on general disarmament. 
'Operation Intercept' 
"Operation Intercept" the U.S. government's search and seizure operation along the Mexican American border to cut off the flow of narcotics into the United States may prove to have detrimental effects which more than outweigh the benefits of cutting down the narcotics flow. 
Mexicans who cross the border each day to work in American cities such as El Paso are beginning to express their dissatisfaction with the checking procedures. Crossing the Mexican-American border, normally a quick and routine matter, has now been turned into an elaborate process with long lines of visitors on both sides of the border. Mexicans are trying to devise ways of protesting the checking procedures and relations between the two countries normally on an amiable basis, are beginning to deteriorate. ' 
Mexicans who spend hundreds of thousands of dollars daily in American cities are planning a boycott of American shops. A movement to boycott the stores of El Paso is already underway. Mexican workers are thinking about organizing mass sick days in which they will refuse to cross the border to go to work. 
Situations on this side of the border are not any better. The cut back in marijuana hasn't really hurt the pushers who the government is after. In fact the scarcity created has increased pusher's profits by driving the price of marijuana sky high. Government spokesmen point out that the price has nearly doubled in coastal areas. 
The lack of marijuana has made it easier for pushers to sell people on "hard" drugs, or chemicals, which can be very dangerous to a young or inexperienced user. 
We feel the government should examine all of its policy on drugs, especially "operation intercept." We feel that control of the dmg flow is not worth straining relations between the United States and Mexico. We feel that a thorough investigation should be made of the actual effects of marijuana and the penalties against users. Many have claimed that the drug presents less a danger to an individual than alcohol or smoking cigarettes. 
The government also needs to focus its attentions on providing help for drug addicts. Educational and counseling centers should be established nationwide to disseminate information about different types of narcotics, their relative dangers and their proper uses. 
Special attention should be given to individuals who feel that they want to stop using drugs but are forced to continue for psychological or physical 
reasons. 

David Breen, Business Manager Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. News Editor: Glenn Corso Copy Editor: David Stauffer Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Ann Conway, Laura Haferd, Jeanne Sweeney, Prudence Wear 
L.evout Editor: Mary Beth Crimmms Photo Editor: Phil Bosco Features·'.Editor: Tom Ehrbar SportS Editor: Mike Pavlin 
Night Editor; David Stauffer Layout Design: Phil Barth Headlines: Randy Young Bro. Patrick 
Carney Dan Shaw Tom Gustafson, Jr. Uyout: Patty Lipscomb 
The opmtons in the editorials, news analyses, and columns of The Observer are solely those of the authors and editors of The Observer and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administrations, faculty or student 
hodii!S. 


If we could only get the rest of the admini­stration and faculty to follow Hesburgh's example we could have a moratorium for the rest of the year. 

Tim O'Meilia 
Garbage 

Despite Vice President for Student Affairs Father McCarragher's ;:>rotestations that The Juggler was only "temporarily suspended," even the poor, misguided editors and writers of Alumnus magazine believed the contrary. 
Alumnus, published almost monthly during the school year by the University for the alumni, carried a story on page eight of the September issue under the headline "Juggler shut down." The article began: "The Juggler, a magazine of the arts founded at N D in I 94 7, was closed during the summer by the Vice Presidents' Council." The story went on to quote extensively from Father Hesburgh's letter to Rich Moran, Bill Mitchell, and Michael Patrick O'Connor. 
My, there were a lot of people laboring under the wrong impression early in September. It's good to know that Father Mac, with a little encouragement from the SLC, was able to clear up the situation. 
Little Known Facts Of Little Use: 
Michael Patrick O'Connor, editor of the University's cheshire cat publication, The Juggler, was actually once a biology major until he found out that writing poetry was just as incomprehensible as writing 
out the scientific names for RNA or DNA. 
While a freshman arts and letters jock, Scholastic Editor Richard Moran actually took a science course-required, of course­"One-Third" Danehys Chemistry Course For Arts And Letters Jocks. It was widely believed that Danehy hated arts and letters jocks and so enjoyed flunking one-third of the class each semester. It is shocking that I think Moran got an A at least one of the semesters. But, we're 
happy Rich has finally seen the light, aren't we? 
Phil McKenna, of the simon-pure heart, once committed a sin. Two years ago, during a Spanish final when it became clear that the language we _had studied and the language on the exam were not the same the entire ~lass decided to invite the Prof out for a night on the town.'The very mght, most of the class took a lonely, foreign-born Spanish instructor out and got him sloshed. Checking around later, we could not discover anyone who had participated in the little foray with a grade less than B. 
Tom Ehrbar once wrote a news story. 
Rick Libowitz was once a freshman and was not born with a mustache. John McKay, Jimmy Jones, Bob Chandler and Clarence Davis will once again show Notre Dame the quicker the better. Texas is better than Ohll> State. 
* * * * * 
Among the activities scheduled for October l 5 are a rally, a con-celebrated Mass, a teach-in by the theology undergraduates and a continuous free showing of an anti-war film made in the 1830's. All acitivities will take place during the day. 
After checking with those who should know, we have discovered 
that the day's closing event will absolutely not be a weiner and 
marshmallow roast held by the light of the ROTC building. 
And hello, Don Hynes, wherever you are. 


The saga of rock 'n' roll 
by Mike Kendall 
Many critics of the early Beatles dismissed their music as a throwback to 1956 rock. Others simply called them a passing fad. The reaction at first was similar to the reaction to Presley in earlier years. 
But there was something different about i the Beatles. Although their music was very Negro in style, there was something essen­tially different, even in the early recor­
ding.~. 
As Beatie John Lennon put it, "It isn't rhythm and blues and it's not exactly rock and roll. Our music is just -well, our music." 
The teens of the nation took Lennon at face value and made it their music too. 
A million record sales is considered reason for parties ad infinitum in the music business. But early Beatie recordings were guaranteed one to two million in sales even before release. 
Like a shot in the arm to a sagging rock industry, the music from England brought new life to rock 'n' roll. (With the exception of the Beach Boys, the Ameri­can rock scene on a popular level was devoid of anything new.) 
The Rolling Stones, the Dave Clark Five, Petula Clark -the American scene was flooded with British groups. In fact, during one six-month period from 1964 to 1965, some 80 per cent of the tunes in the top twenty in this country were written or performed by British groups. 
The Beatles were filling the void left by an older Presley. Teens across the country had a new idol to turn to-the Beatles. 
THE OTHER SIDE 

While the Beatles were storming the country, from another direction, two other dominant musical forces were begin­ning to shape American popular music. 
One of these has come to be called "soul music" or simply "soul." People like Ray Charles were the force behind this music. He and showmen like James Brown were starting an assault on rock 'n' roll from another direction. 
The culmination of this soul growth was the formation of Mo-Town records. The star of the show was Diana Ross and the Supremes (now part owners of Mo-Town records). They became one of the groups power behind the post-1960 folk and rock scene is Bob Dylan. 

Hailed by most critics and folk musi­cians as a musical genius, Dylan became the vehicle of statement and experimentation within the folk field. At best, PP&M have been imitators of a good thing when 

who were to popularize soul among the white community. 
A second major effect on the rock scene came from folk music. On a popular level, Peter, Paul and Mary are the heroes of the middle class folk followers. But the real 

Femme Fatale 
by Marilyn Becker 
!laving long tried to stifle the treacherous tendency to think ahead, it was not until late Friday afternoon that we remembered the eventual arrival of our four weekend guests. Being in general a rather conscientious(?) sort, we decided to attempt to sign them into the dorm, lest they be forced to mug the security guard and/or scale the walls. 
llaving some time before our two o'clock class, we descended the stairs to the McCandless Hall desk to try to preregister our guests, only to be engulfed there by a cloud of panic, hysteria, chaos, and other manifestations of apprehension and nervousness. 
It seemed that 1700 (did you notice the exaggeration, purely for effect?) visiting girls (variously designated as Barat bombers, MSU coeds, hometown honeies, high school friends, visiting little sisters, and strange strangers who happened to arrive with any of the above) were about to descend on the hallowed halls of our erstwhile serene dorm. (If you managed to read that last sentence in one breath, you may now pause here 'til the count of five, panting profusely.) 
We felt that we should have expected 
this vast influx of The Friends of SMC as 
soon as we saw the large orange and blue 
neon sign, which read "McCandless Motor 
Lodge," going up over the front door. 
Murmuring a few words of comfort to the harried house mother, we departed to collect sheets for our guests, catch a few minutes of class, wash our hair, and, in general, prepare for the mad social whirl of another Friday night at Notre Dame. It was somewhere between putting on eyeliner and brushing our hair that we heard the ominous rumble of approaching suitcases, but as we were safe within our own room, we formed no very clear impression of the magnitude of the invasion. 
It was only later, at 3:30a.m. (it was a good party), that we returned to our room to find a roommate, four guests, and ourself, all eyeing the beds(ofwhich there were two) with a mixture of blood-thirsty determination and desperate hope. There was a short lull before the storm--we checked the third-floor lounge in the hope of bedding a few visitors on the carpet there. Alas, the idea died a quick death as we entered the lounge and stumbled over twelve sleeping bodies and an errant chair. 
With fire in our eye, we went back to the room, made a dive for the bed, and joined the fray. When the dust settled, two guests had managed to grab the beds, and our roommate and ourself had claimed mattresses on the floor. We all settled down for a peaceful, if somewhat crowded, night, complete even, by some miracle, with sheets, blankets, and/or spreads. 
Unfortunately, we're sure it could not have been later than four or five a.m. when a straying guest returned stealthily to our room. We heard the door open as it banged gently against our head, where we lay crunched on our mattress on the floor. (Did we mention how easy it is not to fit six sleeping bodies into a room five feet x five feet?) Tenderly, we suggested that she might like to freeze in her tracks 'til the light carne on, as we didn't want to be kicked, squashed, or mauled in our bed. 
Well, the light came on, somehow causing our stray guest to lose her balance. With due grace, she stepped into one sleeping guest (who woke rather suddenly). feel across her bed into a chair, and knocked the chair cpeening across the room, where it hit the innocent pole lamp, which promptly fell to the floor, hitting our roommate on its way to the ground. 
Can we find words to tell you how pleased we were? Probably, but the Obserl'er wouldn't print them! 
We have but one thing more to say: if we, at any time, promised to keep your HTII, sister, mother, or cousin in our room this year, FORGET IT, Charley! Howard Johnson's is right up the road ... 
compared to Dylan. 

Dylan's contribution to rock was a concern with the importance of statement and meaning in the lyrics. John Lennon and the Beatles proved themselves and much of rock music able to move in that college level. They formed a kind ot subculture with such heroes of the under­ground as The Grateful Dead and The Mothers of Invention. 
All the forces for change within rock came to the popular fore in 1967. The warning shot was fired by the Beatie's release of "Eleanor Rigby." The song was unlike any other chart that had ever made it on the popular scene. 
The concern was no longer with wanting to hold someone's hand. The bag now was the deprivation they saw in the broken life of Eleanor Rigby. 
Our four Children of Innocence had come of age. 
The release of the album "Revolver," aroused the widespread interest of the music critics. Some were upset about the cover (which contained such things as a bleeding doll). But many other were very excited about the kind of music being played and the quality of that music. 
FALL, 1967 This was the date the Beatles released "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" album. From the front page of Time to the inside of Downbeat magazine, from Leonard Bernstein to Leonard Feather, the album received praise from all musical directions. Since the release of "Sgt. Pepper's" the pop field has been the scene of a radical shift in the tastes of the listening audience. Obvious jazz musicians like Hugh Mas­kela and Nancy Wilson dot the charts. Wes Montgomery's Album "California Dreamin," was the number one selling album for several months. Wes held the Downbeat jazz poll title as the best guitarist for several years until his death recently. "Classical Gas", "MacArthur Park" and "The Look of Love" feature interesting vocal and arranging combinations. In fact, in the opinion of stage band director of Indiana State University Glen Daum, the rhythm section of Brazil '66 is the best one going in music today. 


direction. Although some of the music from 1963 until 1967 was an improvement on pre­vious Top Ten tunes, the majority of the other charts remained the same. Many of the groups were more a product of electronic gadgetry than their own ability. From the Kinks to the Kingsmen, the 14-5-repetitious nonsense threatened the stagnation of rock 'n' roll. But change was on the way. All the progressive forces of change in the music were active, especially on the 
What should be noticed is that none of these are rock 'n' roll of any previous vintage. Although the kids don't realize it and the adults won't admit it, jazz has launched a sizeable conquest of rock in the last two years. 
There has been such change and progress in rock that the only definite way to treat it is to deal with the music of two groups. It would seem that the Beatles and the Jimi Hendrix Experience are the two finest examples of what's happening in rock today. 


Letters to the editor 

Serving a function 
Editor: 

I have just read the account of Father Hesburgh's meeting with student leaders and would like to offer the following thoughts in connec~ion with the student 
demand  to  examine  the  
University  portfolio.  Let  me  
make three general points.  

First, as I have said in the past, the linkage of American industry to the VietNam war is so vast that the isolation of a single or select 
POSITION OPEN 
AT LEATHER L.T.D. 
For person interested in sales 118 S. Main South Bend 
234-0862 
Tl 

group of companies for punitive treatment of the kind that Mr. McKenna is suggesting not only is discriminatory but also misses the real target. If I understand him correctly he would have the University withdraw its investments from companies which "serve a function" of exploiting colored people or of furthering the Viet Nam war. But how does one measure the linkage of a company, such as Dow, to an issue such as Viet Nam? Here the link is somewhat visible because Dow manufactures napalm for bat tie field use, and napalm conjures up terrible images in the mind of man. 
The visibility of a link ("serving a function") however is no measure of its 'magnitud~. Actually, there are hundreds of 
Natu al 
nd r 
I ® 








Collection' 
If you collected one kiss for each shade of Natural Wonder ~Un-Lipstick' you wear... you could have yourself one S\\eet little collection. Twenly-[our ~Un-Lipsticks'... the sheerest, clearest, shiningest lip colors ever. They're hare, hut the color is there. Natural Wonder ~un-Lipsticks' by Rcvlon 
Available at: 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE BOOKSTORE 
Ilfll~lli~~~lli~IWWI;I~fll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;~lliiJ.~••••••••••••••~t~r_:a~ti~o~n~c~·a~n~c:·h~a~n~g=e~A~m~e~ri~c_:a~n~p~o~li~--. 
IN CONCERT  For Sale  
BRAND X  1962 Studebaker Lark Call Ma')l Beth 4166  
and  

companies in this country which tries depend on the government serve the function of prosecuting for survival. The U.S. government the war to a far greater extent is the biggest buyer in the world, than Dow. That is why I have buying up to 70% of the products regarded the isolation of Dow for of some corporations. As might special treatment by university be expected, the leverage of the students as unfair and discrimina­federal government over these tory. Under Mr. McKenna's rea­companies is enormous. We re­soning, certain producers of food member how Kennedy brought and clothing could be regarded as the steel industry to heel in 1962, equally culpable for the con­as we remember how Johnson tinued prosecution of the Viet bludgeoned -with some justifi­Nam war. For that matter, why cation -the aluminum industry not apply Mr. McKenna's theory into conformity with presidential to companies which buy Dow's price guidelines some years later. products and therefore keep Dow One may legitimately wonder in business? Why shouldn't the how free some corporations real­University, under the same ly are in their activities on multi­theory, withdraw its investments ple negotiations with govern­
from companies which invest in ment. In many cases, too, defense Dow? Perhaps students should be (or war) contracts are the result asked to articulate a consistent 
of myriad community and politi­cal pressures. Even politicians

philosophy of boycott before opposed to the Viet Nam war
they demand from the University represent these pressures in Wash-
a philosophy of investment. For ington. Consider Senator Vance
my part, I would find either an Hartke of Indiana, an unmistakc­
impossible exercise in moral cal­culus. 
able dove where Viet Nam is concerned. Yet last year, accord-

Second, students should re­member that the power, influ­
ing to Congressional Quarterly Weekly Report (September 26,

ence, and maneuverability of 
many companies with strong 196 9), he helped secure $S00 links to the federal government million for Indiana in prime de­are severely limited. Many indus-fense contracts. U.S. Steel, Good­year, Kaiser Jeep, International Harvester, Avco, and Allison Divi­sion of General Motors were the recipients of these contracts. All are linked, directly or indirectly, to Viet Nam. Should the Univer­sity withdraw investments in these companies too? Should stu­dents now turn against Hartke? 
All I am suggesting is that the decision-making situation here is incredibly complex, and that moral judgments about men and institutions which ignore these complexities are premature. 
All of which brings me to my final point. I think we waste effort and energy _ and risk 
Why should atraditional 
twill tie have the new 
alienating too many people who
full fashion shape 

are with us on the issue of Viet Only the new more luxurious full 
Nam by training our guns on fashion shape (fuller under-the­
private corporations, or whatknot, wider throughout) is right with might be regarded as tertiary or at
!Oday's longer shirt collars, wider Jacket lapels. What's more, this new 

best secondary levels of power in full fashion shape is best calcu­
the United States. Whether we lated to show off the authentic col­
like it or not, whether the Univer­orings, imported fabrics of Resilio's sity invests in Dow or not, napalmoutstanding traditional twill. At bet­will continue to be produced for
ter stores everywhere or write: Resilio Traditional Neckwear, Em­

war purposes. It is &imply too pire State Building, N.Y. 10001.. 
much to expect profit-making institutions to question or oppose
P.S. All Resilio ties have the new lull fashion shape. 
government policies which bring 

them profits. If there is a villain in this case it is not the corporation, but rather the U.S. Government. The real locus of power in this 
country, where issues of war and
Gilbert's Campus Shop 
peace are concerned, is the presi-
Notre Dame University 
dency. Only the Nixon adminis-
South Bend 
cy in Viet Nam. It follows that all of our limited energies and limited moral strength should be directed toward the presidency. Every legitimate method of pro­test should be used and every resource exploited to apprise the President of the sense of the community on the issue of Viet Nam. The target is Washington, not Youngstown, Springfield, Milwaukee, Seattle, or South Bend. And the weapon should be a fire hose -not a sprinkler ­
aimed at Washington. 
Very sincerely yours, 
Donald P. Kommers 
Associate Professor 
Special representation 
Editor, 
SBP McKenna's proposals to 
Father Hesburgh are of great 
interest. But I think he is overly 
modest when he confesses that he 
"is capable of representing 
everyone in the University except 
the black students." It seems to 
me he represents them 
commendably and eloquently. If 
there is logic in his suggestion that 
those he cannot well represent on 
the Board of Trustees should be 
given a special representation 
with full voting and speaking 
privileges, it should he pointed 
out there is perhaps a much larger 
group that he does not well 
represent-the ROTC students. 
These perhaps too, in all justice 
and logic, should have special 
representation on the Board. 
Second, McKenna desires full disclosure of University endowment investments so that those investments in companies connected with the "war effort" or "the exploitation of people of color" may be properly identifiable. This income, of course, used for basic University operating costs. contributes perhaps less than one-third of the amount necessary to run the University. The prime source of the University's income is the tuition furnished by parents. This money, too, may be tainted; hence it seems only fair that the jobs and all of the investments of the fathers of those students who desire such University disclosures should also be made. And the same demands and penalties directed towards University endowments should also be directed toward students. If the fathers of these students have jobs or investments connected with the "war effort" or the exploitation of the colored races of Africa, such grievous facts 
should be determined and equal
justice applied to all offenders. Sincerely, (Prof.) P. McLane, English 
ed note: tuition comes somewhere around one-half of the cost of"operating expenses. 

AMERICA'S STOP Student Union Social Commission 
preseots 

LITTLE THEATER, SMC Saturday, October 11, 1969 
BLOOD, 8:00pm -!1:00pm 
SWEAT, 

Tickets: $1.50 per person Available in the SMC Dining Hall & T£ARS 
and at the door. Saturda1· Octoher 18 Atflletic and Convocation Center 8P.M. 
StJOnsored hr: 
rickets on sale at Gilbert's and Bookstore
Student Serl'ice Organi:::atioll ofSt. Mar_\' 's College 
and in the Dining Halls tonight and tomorrow night 
_____:T_:_:H_::U:_.:.:RS::::D:.:.:A:...:.Y~,O:::.:C::.:T....:::O_::B:..:ER:..:....::.:9,__:_1.:..:96=9______________~--.:;_71._'E_ OBSE/WER._ -·----------­

Co-exchange students render opinion 
should be educated socially just that the different views of the schedules. Other suggestionsby Don Ruane to habituate ourselves with the women and how the course is were to reduce the number of normal world." pre sented make the classes runs to two an hour and add In a recent survey, approxi-worthwhile. Those disappointed another bus after four-thirty. If
Opinions varied as to which b
mately fifteen students involved institution has the better facul-point to oring material, poor the number of runs were re­in the Notre Dame-St. Mary's professors, and the high ratio of duced, the money saved could
ty. Professors were described as
co-exchange program were asked men to women and vice versa in be used to finance the shuttle
"really good" and in other cases f 1
to gt've their opinions on four t~ome o the c asses. The high after six-o'clock.
as "boring". One student · 
Points. The students expressed rat1o may cause the smaller
suggested that more classes be b 1 · · 
·ng views on the pro-group to e ess active m discus-
the follow1 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
PAGE 7 
CHIMES 
Needs Staff 
On.~anizalionat Meelill!! 
Oct. 9, 6:30p.m. 
SMC Coffeehouse 

held at Notre Dame "so we 
gram in general, their classes, sion according to one student. 

SMC NIGHT
could have the better professors s 11 1 d b tt f
transportation and improve-ma er c asses an e cr pro es-
and the girls." Nick Peluse feels d d b 1
ments they would like to see. sors were recomen e Y severa 
the program is good because it t · th 1
··onsensus among persons o Improve e c asses. 
at Alumni Club
The general ~ offers the facilities of both
those interviewed was that the All of the students inter-
schools to the students. Every-
program is good because it pre-viewed felt that the shuttle bus 
one felt the program should be 
DISCOUNTS FOR LADIES
sents hoth male and female is providing adequate service but
expanded.
views on a variety of subjects. several improvements could be Larry Byrnes summarized the The students presented several made. Over-crowding was one of 

LADIES FOR GENTLEMEN
idea by saying " ... any kind of views on their classes. Several the major complaints. Sug­education that isn't based on co-feel the classes are challenging gestions offered ranged from 


TONIGHT
education is a farce because we and stimulating while others are adding an extra bus to closer co-being educated in tcllec::.:·t~u.:::al~ly~,:,_-d_is_ap_p:_o_i_n_te_d_._T_h_o_s_e_p_le_a_s_ed__sa_i_d__~o.:..:rd::.,:i.:.,:n~at~io~n:.:_o:::.f:......_b:.:.us:..·...:a:.:.n;.::d_c_la_s_s__._______________________________________________--1 





Take Susan 

. <' ~ 
-··l•u:,~i­

before she !!oes 
from PartY hoPPin!!to 

!!roceryshoPPin!!. 
Just drop a ~ilm cMtridge into a Kodak I nstamatic camera and save Susan before she starts saving trading stamps. In beautiful color snapshots or color slides. Indoors, pop on a flashcube. It's that easy. 
Kodak lnstamatiC·color cameras. From less than sJo. 

•

Pacers host Pittsburgh 1n exhibition at ACC 
On Tuesday night, October 14, the Indiana Pacers of the Ameri­can Basketball Association will play an exhibition game with the Pittsburgh Pipers in the Athletic and Convocation Center. General Admission tickets are $1.00 and can be purchased through the Indianapolis Club. Members will sell tickets in the individual halls until Monday. From then on, tickets must be purchased at the ACC box office. 
The Pacers are the defending champions in th~ ABA's Eastern Division (they lost out to Oak­land in the League champion­ship). Last season, Indiana placed two players, Bob Netolicky and Mel Daniels, on the Eastern All­Star Team. Daniels was the only unanimous choice on the All-Pro Team, and Netolicky made honorable mention. 
6-9 center Daniels, the ABA 's Most Valuable Player, is flanked by 6-9 Netolicky and 6-5 Roger Brown, a second team All-Pro, at the forward posts. Daniels was voted the MVP in three separate polls: the Basketball Writers, Working Press, and by the op­posing players in the League. 
The guard position could give the Pacers trouble. Although Freddie Lewis starred at one spot last year, he is only 6-0. Denver, 
NEW YORK (UPI)-The play of Purdue's Mike Phipps is symbolic of the upward trend in offense among this season's football teams. 

Phipps, a senior quarterback, missed three games last season and accounted for only three touchdowns himself as the Boiler­makers finished third in the Big Ten Conference. But in three games so far this season, the talented Phipps has gained more yardage running and passing than any collegian ever. 
The latest figures released today by the National Collegiate Sports Service show Phipps lead­ing the nation in total offense with I ,046 yards --an awesome total. He already has accounted for 12 of his team's touchdowns. 
Phipps is not the only player who is compiling staggering fig­ures. Steve Olson of Idaho has accounted for 14 of his team's touchdowns so far and is a close second to Phipps in total offense with I ,043 yards. Steve Ramsay of North Texas State is another who is over the I ,000 yard figure already with I ,002 yards in total offense. 
The trend toward total offense 
NEW YORK (UPI) -On paper, it looks so logical. 
The New York Mets didn't have a player who hit more than 26 homers this season and their leading RBI producer had just 76. 
The Baltimore Orioles had four players who hit 26 or more homers and also four players who knocked in 76 runs or more. 
It's probably a coincidence that Paul Blair of the Orioles and Tommie Agee of the Mets both had 26 homers and 76 RBI's. But while Agee is one of the Mets' top two hitters, C!eon Jones is the other, Blair is just one of a quartet of top Oriole hitters. The club also has Frank 
Robinson,  Boog  Powell  and  
Brooks Robinson.  
So  that's  why  the  

oddsmakers, who gave you the Baltimore Colts by 17 points 


UPI ran"lngs ­small colleges 
NEW YORK (UPI) -The United Press International top 20 small college football teams with first place votes in parentheses and won-lost-tied records when 
available. Team 
1. 
No. Oak. St. (27)4-0 

2. 
Texas A&I 3-0 

3. 
Humboldt St. 3-0 

4. 
Montana ( 1)4-0 5.Ark.St. (2)2-1 


6. 
Troy St. 3-0-1 

7. 
Alcorn A&M (112-0 8. Delaware 2-1 9.1nd. (Pa.l (113-0 


10. 
N.M. H'lands 2-0-1 

11. 
East Tenn. St. 4-0 

12. 
Abilene Christ. 4-0 

13. 
Northern Mich. 3-1 

14. 
Lenoir Rhyne (11 3-0 

15. 
Northeast Okla. 16.1dahoSt. (112-1 17.Akron 3-1 


18. (Tiel No. Ariz. 2-1 (Tiel Fresno St. 2-1 
20. Col. St. Coli. ( 11 3-0 
over the New York Jets, list the Orioles an 8 -5 favorite to win the series which starts Saturday at Baltimore Memorial Stadium. 
But since the games aren't played· on paper and everything is going for them on the field these days, the Mets -who will work out at Shea Stadium on Wednesday before leaving for Baltimore on Thursday -aren't worried about the odds. The Mets are still a light hitting club but they have hit enough to win I 03 games. So, if you're looking at things on paper, <here is one key statistic for the !\lets. 
Eleven different players have 

-seen action in I00 or more games this season and a 12th, Donn Clendennon, played in 72 but joined the club after the season started. By contrast, the Orioles have seven players who've played in 148 or more games this year, but the next two played in just I 05 and 94. Only one Met player, Agee, has played in more than 148. The difference, of course, is the two platooning system used by Manager Gil Hodges this year. 
Miami and New Orleans, each feature tall back courts. Joining Lewis (formerly of the NBA Cincinnati Royals) could be either 5-l I rookie Bill Keller (Purdue) or 6-4 rookie Dick Gru­
bar(North Carolina). 
for the dubwus honor of piaying against Daniels. At forward, the Pipers are solid with former Duke All-American Art Heyman, 6-5, and 6-7 Tom Washington. Both are members of the 1967-68 ABA 
PACER VETERANS 

The Pittsburgh Pipers do have Bob Netolicky great strength at guard with Char-Mel Daniels lie Williams and Chico Vaughn. Roger Brown Chico had 145 3-point field goals Fred Lewis last season and carried a 17.8 George Peeples 
. John Fairchild · sconng average. Ron Perry Opposing the tough Daniels at Jay Miller 
6-9  Drake  
6-9  New Mexico  
6-5  Dayton  
6-0  Arizona St.  
6-8  Iowa  
6-8  BYU  
6-3  Va. Tech  
6-5  Notre Dame  Jim Stevenson  6-4  Maine  

championship team. 
A potentially valuable "swing­man" is 6-2 George Thompson, a rookie from Marquette known for his great leaping ability. 
ROOKIES 

Dick Grubar  6-4  N. Carolina  
Bob Arnzen  6-6  Notre Dame  
Bill Keller  5-11  Purdue  
Gerald McKee  6-9  Ohio  
Bill DeHeer  6-8  Indiana  
Rich Travis  6-1  Okla. City  
Jerry Newsom  6-5  Indiana St.  
Tony Masiello  6-4  Canisius  

center, however, will be one of • • three rookies. Lee Lafayette(6-8, 

Barz In scorlng
Michigan State), AI Dixon (6-9, race 
Bowling Green), and Dan Obro­vac (6-10, Dayton) are battling INDIANAPOLIS (UPI) There apparently will be no run­
away for the 1969 Indiana college football individual scoring title.
Phipps leads nation in total offense 
No less than four players were 
tied for top honors this week with is predominant all over. Don 30 points apiece, including Valpa­Nottingham of Kent State, the raiso's Jim Rusart, who was un­leading rusher in the nation, disputed leader last week. 
already has gained 644 yards in Joining Rusart at the head offour games; Jerry Hendren of the pack were Purdue's StanIdaho has caught 38 passes and Brown, Bill Barz of Notre Dame,Jim Braxton of West Virginia has and Paul Gunn of Evansville. Barz scored 66 points. 

scored three times against Michi­In other departments, Olson gan State to join the leaders.
tops the passers with 80 com­Brown and Gunn each scoredpletions; Ken Sanders of Tulane twice in their last outings, while

leads the punters with an average of 47.5 yards kick; Billy Rusart had to settle for one touchdown in Valpo's win over St. Joseph's. 
Tied for fifth place, with 24 points each, were five others ­Jade Butcher of Indiana, Ted Williams of Anderson, Randy Belden of Butler, Jim Brumfield of Indiana State, and Robin Gratz of Manchester. 
Butcher sets a new IU record every time he scores on a pass play. 
Rounding out the top I 0 was Wabash sophomore Don Van Deursen with 22 points. His total includes three touchdowns and four conversions. 
per 

Ill 111111111'11'1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Watson of the Citadel leads in punt returns with 12 for 216 yards and Frank Slaton of San Jose State is best in kickoff returns with 14 for 373 yards. 




sport~ parade
Mets thrive on platooning 
By Milt Richman, UPI sports c~lumnist
The platooning has gotten results and it has made players 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 like Ken Boswell, Wayne Garrett, AI Weis, Art Shamsky, . 
Milt says Mets
Ron Swoboda and Ed Kranepool 
valuable members of the team. 
Only two of the outfielders, 
Agee and Jones, and shortstop 
Bud Harrelson can be considered 
full time starters. If you compare 
the Orioles and Mets position by 
position, the Orioles have a big 
edge. But don't forget how well 
platooning has worked for the 
Mets this year. It's made the 
club better than it looks and one 
of the reasons why the Mets 
keep winning when they're not 
expected to. 
"BIG THREE" FAYORED 
NEW YORK (UPI) -Each of Indiana's "Big Three" was installed Tuesday as a favorite for Saturday's college football action. 
Ninth ranked Purdue was installed at a 3 point favorite over Michigan, while No. 14 Notre Dame was given a 14% point spread over Army and Indiana was rated 12 points better than Minnesota. 

Points 
LOS ANGELES CUP!) lust
333 

when the w:u bet ween tt:e two
266 

pP)fessional basketball leagues
198 

seemed to be ebbing to a kind of
180 

uneasy truce, the Los Angeles
138 

Stars staged a lightning guerrilla 
135 

raid and came away with a prize
123 

National Basketball Association
98 
center.
74 

The stars of the rival
63 

American Basketball Association
39 

announced Tuesday the signing
37 

of Atlanta Hawks' All Star Zel­
27 

mo Beaty to a four year con­
25 

tract. beginning in the 1970-71
18 
season.
17 

The 6 foot H, 235 pound
14 

Beaty became the third NBA
11 

player in recent months to jump,
11 

with a fourth. Luke Jackson of
10 
• 
Philadelphia, hung up bet ween the leagues because of signed con tracts with the 76ers and the ABA 's Carolina Cougars. 
The St<Jrs were clearly happy with the successful raid. which they hope will make them a bet­ter local drawing card in the fu­ture. Los Angeles currently fights for attendance with the Lakcrs of the NBA, who arc stocked with stars like Jerry West, 1-:Jgin Baylor and Wilt Chamberlain. 
Beaty will sit out the one year opti,,n remaining on his contract with the I h w~ s, after refusing to sign a :1cw p<!ct with Atlanta wh,~n it came up for renewal last week. 



ABA nabs Beatty 
NEW YORK (UPI)-Pretty soon now the Baltimore Orioles are going to get a little surprise. They're going to find out a few things they don't know about the New York Mets. 
As matters now stand, the Orioles figure the '69 Mets are pretty much like the '66 Dodgers, and if you have a little trouble remembering how that Baltimore-Los Angeles meeting came out three years ago merely thumb through that part of the record book which lists "World Series-Four Straight." 
The Dodgers had a couple of pitchers that year whose names you may remember, Sandy Koufax and Don Drysdale. They also had eight other men in the lineup but you try remembering any of them. 
Jim Palmer remembers because he pitched against them in the second game of the World Series that year and emerged as the youngest pitcher ever to hurl a shutout in a World Series. 
Palmer feels the same way most of the other Orioles do. He feels pitching is the Mets' strong suit, and he's right. He and the other Orioles also feel the Mets, like those '66 Dodgers, have only two real hitters, Clean Jones and Tommie Agee, and that's where Jim Palmer and the rest of the Orioles are wrong. 
Sometime tomorrow Earl Weaver, the Orioles' manager, will sit down with his players and go over the scouting report on the Mets. If Jim Russo, AI Kubski and Don Pries, the three Baltimore scouts who got up the report on the Mets, did their customary fine job then the Orioles will discover the Mets have more than two real hitters. 
They'll also find out they also have a guy like Ken Boswell, who can peck and punch you dizzy; guys like Bud Harrelson, Jerry Grote and Wayne Garret who can hurt you when you never expect it; guys like Ron Swoboda and Donn Clendenen who can hurt you when you do expect it, and a guy like Art Shamsky who, on any given day, can kill 
you. 

They also have a pitcher who's too much. He's Tom Seaver and when Earl Weaver saw him in the first professional game he ever appeared he wondered how he could possibly get any better. But Seaver has. Tom Seaver did a strange thing following the Mets' last game Monday in which they officially nailed down the National League pennant with a 7-4 win over Atlanta. 
When it was over, all the Mets bathed each other in champagne. All but one. Tom Seaver. He was off in another room by himself watching the Orioles in their final contest with the Twins. He knows he's going to open the series against the Orioles so he wanted to find out anything more he could about them. That's the kind of guy Tom Seaver is. 
The Orioles are 8-5 to beat the Mets in this one. 
You're cordially invited to draw your own conclusion and make 
your own pick. Mine is the Mets in five. 




