·THE WORLD TODAY 
A Ia bam a Negro college closed 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. (UPI) -The president of Alabama's 
Stillman College closed down the predominantly Negro school 
yesterday and ordered the campus cleared. Classroom boycott 
leaders said they would disobey the order. 
The continuing campus rebellion was scheduled to involve two 
more schools this week, Princeton and the University of Missouri. 
Dr. Harold Stinson shut down the small Presbyterian college at 
Tuscaloosa, Ala., after STillman students rejected 'tis appeal to end 
their class boycott and staged a defiant narch through a 
predominantly Negro section of Tuscaloosa. 
The Stillman students presented Stinson with a list of demands, 
including improved food in the campus c·afeteria and disciplinging of 
a campus security guard whom students claim shot one of their 
number in the leg last fall. 
Stinson agreed to attempt food service improvements but did no1: promise to discipline the guard. Protest leaders said the entire student body would take over Stillman's student union in defiance of the school closing order. 

Israeli jets retaliate against Jordan 
BEIRUT, Jerusalem (UPI)-Rocket firing Israeli jet fighters and armored half tracks attacked Jordanian positions near the Gulf of Aqaba yesterday, a Jordanian military comnmnique said. The reported attack came as Israel warned its armed forces would punish 
Arab terrorists. 
The Jordanians said two of their soldiers were killed in the hour and 20 minute battle. They claimed three Israeli half tracks were destroyed and Israeli helicopters were seen removing casualties. 
Israeli Deputy Premier Yigal Allon warned in Jerusalem that Israel's army has "a long reach and those responsible for such terrorist deeds will not go unpunished." 

Sirhan to testify this week in trial 
LOS ANGELES (UPI) -Sirhan B. Sirhan, his mother and two of his brothers may testify this week to help prove his lawyers' contention the killing of Sen. Robert F. Kennedy was "totally a product of a sick, obsessed mind and personality." 
They will be among 42 defense witnesses summoned to bolster the Jordanian imm!grant's attorneys' efforts to save Sirhan from the gas cl1amber. 
Ass0ciate l'rosecutor David N. Fitts t.as said it is possible the 

E 


OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame tmd St. MIITV 's College Community 
VOL. Ill, NO. 86 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24,1969 
Riehle charges two • 
' 

Fourth in SBP race 
Names 

Kendall
not released 

challenges
Dave Ryan, the Chairman of 

prosecution will rest its case by Wednesday, clearing the way for the Campus Judicial Board, testimony from Sirhan's mother, his brothers, Adel and Munir, and released two notices of violation, then t·orn the 24 year old defendant. over the weekend, to two Notre 

opponents
Sirt:an is accused of first degree murder in the shooting death of Dame students in connection Kennedy and faces either life imprisonment or the gas chamber. The with the disturbances 
Student Body Presidential t1 ial r•!sumes Monday after a weekend recess. surrounding the Pornography candidate Mike Kendall issued a 
and Censorship Conference. The challenge to a discussion to the complaints, which led to the other SBP hopefuls, Phil

Catcalls greet Nixon in Brussels 
issue of the violation notices, McKenna and John Mroz. Both BRUSSELS (UPI)-President Nixon arrived for a tour of Europe were filed by Rev. James Riehle, 
candidates accepted. last night pledging peace, but he promptly ran into demonstrators CSC, Dean of Students, last Kendall said that this 
shouting "Nixon Go Home" as he stood listening to the U.S. week. invitation would extend to any national anthem. Ryan refused to give the other person who may enter the Nixon, who had arrived only moments before from Washington names of the persons or the Rev. James L. Riehle SBP race. It will probably take aboard the presidential jetliner, stood with a smile, his hat held over charges against them. He based place during the campaign, with his heart, as chanting from some of the 500 spectators gathered on this refusal on the Judicial Board Soph runs the details being worked out the rooftop of the airport broke out during the playing of the Code which states that the through the candidates, their anthem. accused students, themselves, campaign managers, and staffs.

on honesty

Belgium's King Boudouin, standing beside Nixon on the red dais must give out this information. "The discussion," said set aside from the welcoming speeches, was smiling until the Playing prominent roles in the Kendall, "would not be an chanting started and then turned grim as he heard the words. student-police clash over the Edward F. McCartin, a sopho­argumentative debate among the 
The chanting stopped as the 38-year-old King Boudouin stepped seizure of the film Kodak Ghost more arts and letters student, candidates, but an open forward to give his welcoming speech, which praised Nixon for Poems on Friday, February 7, formally announced his candida­presentation of each candidate's visiting Europe to seek peace. were Peter Michelson, professor cy for the office of Student attitudes. It would be a step 
of English; Marty McNamara, Body President yesterday in a toward ending the isolation 
Allies kill 1,000 In Cong offensive David Kahn, and Shaun press release. McCartin also an­between the students and 
Reynolds, Notre Dame students; nounced that his running mate is student government, in this case, 
SAIGON (UPI) -Allied forces trying to crush the long expected and Kathy Cecil, a student at John A. Fiala, also a sophomore the candidates for the highest Viet Cong offensive reported killing at least I,000 Communist Saint Mary's College, among arts and letters student. McCar­student government post. The troops yesterday in fighting that spread across South Vietnam. At others. tin makes the fourth candidate discussion would give students a least I00 Americans were slain and Saigon was shelled for the second If one of the violations is for the office. clear choice in the direction they consecutive night. directed at Marty McNamara, it In his letter, McCartin stated want the University to take, and 
will not be his first appearance

"We do believe that this is their offensive," an official spokesman that he declared his candidacy a presentation of attitudes is the at U.S. headquarters said last night almost 24 hours after the first before the Campus Judicial because he felt "a mandate for only way students can shells exploded in a wave of attacks-some inconsequential-that hit Board. He was previously honesty in student government." intelligently decide who the next 
suspended for seven days

more than I00 cities and allied bases. "We do think there will be He also stated, "Honesty is Student Body President will be." more shellings and ground attacks." because of his actions in the sit usually an unrealistic approach Mroz said: "Hopefully, the in directed against Dow to politics, Our campaign will issues and, moreover, how they Chemical and the CIA recruiting change this precedent." can be accomplished is the

Peace negotiators study movements 
operations on the campus last In discussing his campaign, essence of the whole campaign. I 
PARIS (UPI) -All1ed negotiators at the Vietnam peace talks November. Other pen.ons McCartin said, "I intend to run hope (he discussion will not turn studied reports from Vietnam and Washington yesterday on the charged in the CIA and Dow with the idea that the President's into a rhetorical debate. We latest military action in South Vietnam in an effort to find a clear demonstrations have not yet role is one of a delegate of the intend to reach all the students Communist strategy. been brought to trial. student body not as a trustee... on a personal level, present them 
IJ.S. of~icials said the reports of the Communist rocket attacks on Ryan stated that the persons, Anything we do will reflect the with our ideas, and be open to the big cities of the South were being carefully studied. who the charges are directed attitudes of the majority of the their questions." "These attacks may have an effect on the progress of the peace against, won't know the specific student body..." Kendall has also announced talks but at the moment we cannot say how or to what extent," a violations until about noon "Our campaign will be any­the selection of Barney King, 
U.S. spokesman said. today. All they know at the thing but hypocritical. We've Lyons Hall President, as his Meanwtoile, there were indications from American sources that the present time is that the done nothing for the University vice-presidential running mate. 
Allied sm:gotiating position at the next peace conference session violations stem from their in the past, and the University King, a pre-med student, is Thursday might include some sort of protest against the actions in the Pornography has reciprocated," said McCar­serving his second term as Lyons indiscriminate rocket attacks on civilian centers. Conference. tin. Hall President. 
------_:__ ~ 
?AGE 2 
Ill!: 08.\'f:Rf'I:R MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1969 

New magazine to appear Wednesday 
A student-composed publication dealing with pornography and censorship is due to be published Wednesday at the latest after nearly a week of delay. 
The publication, entitled Vaciline, was created by seniors Don Hynes and Marty McNamara, and will be printed by the Student Union. 
The two editors encountered difficulties when they attempted to have it published as a special edition of the Juggler. After that 
ublication decided against publishing the new magazine, Hynes and McNamara signed a contract with AI Knappenberger, Student Union Services Commissioner to have the magazine produced by the campus press. 
Several days later Student Union Vice President Bill Wade informed the editors that the Union would not publish the magazine because of the material contained in it. A meeting with Wade and Student Union President Richard Rembusch resulted in an attempt to have the publication registered as an official student publication, the conditions under which Rcmbusch agreed to go through 

with  the  printing  of  the  
magazine.  
Vice  President  for  Student  

Affairs Rev. Charles I. McCarragher, CSC, turned the decision over to a sub-committee of the Student Life Council for a final decision after the editors approached him. 
The sub-committee is composed of Student Body Vice President Charles Nau, Rev. 

This GTO Could Be Yours When You Drive Away In June! 

Where can you grab such a beauty? 
at Welter's Pontiac of course 
seeDAN TUTKO (N.D. '67)
1900 LWE 
for that special students rate! 
call 288-4831 
new or used cars 
Do You Believe In Mind Over Matter? We Do 
A funny thing happened on the way to total efficiency .... 
We got more human. The first computer scared a lot of people. "There goes my job" and that sort of thing. But it didn't happen. Jobs got less routine and more fun, so we bought some new computers. Talk about a population explosion: we have seven of them, and we're expecting again. 
These machines aren't taking over the company though. They can be controlled if you speak their languages -COBOL and Fortran. The Lincoln National has people who do and trains bright people who don't. We call them programmers and systems analysts. The names aren't very original, but they are. They solve problems most of us can't even find. And work on nevv ideas, like computer link-ups with branch offices all over the country. 
WE'LL BE AT THE PLACEMENT OFFICE ON MARCH 3, 1969 
Come and talk to us about being a systems analvst. Or an RGM, actuary. field claim manager, sales manager, reinsurance consultant or financial analyst. Or write and tell us about yourself. Lincoln National Corporation is expanding in life insurance, equipment leasing and real estate development. 
THE LINCOLN NATIONAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY Fort Wayne, Indiana 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
James Burtchacll, CSC, and Electrical Engineering Professor James Massey. The sub-committee turned the problem over to the Student Union Board of Directors which includes Wade, Rembusch, Nau, 
Student Body President Richard Rossie, Associate Professor of Management John Houck, McCarragher, and Treasurer Richard Roderick. 
The Board made arrangements to have the magazine printed by McClaves Printing with a deadline of Friday, Hynes said. 
Hynes said that he called the printers Thursday who assured him that the plates had been made. 
However, Friday the printer informed him that he would not print the magazine. 
Student Union is now printing the magazine, and it will be ready by Wednesday due to a delay in the arrival of paper. 
Hynes said the reason for the magazine was "to deal with eroticism on an intellectual level rather than dwelling on the legal aspects of it. 


1400 students sign army petition 
The Notre Dame Young "We call for the end of the Republicans, in cooperation military draft and the with the Young Democrats, the establishment of a volunteer Young Americans for Freedom, army. We urge President Nixon and the Action Student Party, to live up to his promise to do so are circulating an anti-draft as soon as possible." Mike Kelly, petition in the dining halls and president of the Young the dormitories. Republicans, estimated The states in part: yesterday that over 1400 names 
~-~~~~~~§~~~§i""jhave been collected so far. M•II 
I er Makes I•t 




RI•ght! 
At a board meeting of the Indiana Federation of College Young Republicans held last weekend, a statewide committee was established for the purpose of circulating similar petitions throughout Indiana. This 
committee is headed by Notre 
Dame's Kelly. 
Kelly said that he has been in contact with Senator Mark Hatfield with regard to the petitions. Hatfield is co-author of the Hatfield-Goldwater­McGovern Bill which calls for a volunteer army. 
Although he originally had intended to give the petitions to the Senate, on Hatfield's suggestion, he is now going to send them directly to President Nixon. He said that he is also going to send copies to the House and Senate Armed Services Committees, seeking to enlist their support for the H a tfie ld-G old water-McGovern Bill. 
In discussing the petitions, Kelly said: "We have been having some trouble with people who think that this is simply a radical position. Actually, it is in support of President Nixon's proposals." 


MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1969 
THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 

"Mindless idiot" T 
Editor: 
I address myself to Mr. Don !Iynes' column ''The Community," published in the February 21st issue of THE 

Married Students 
If you are one of the couples who received a questionnaire from The Observer, please fill it out and return it as soon as possible. VIc need a very large response for the survey to be valid. For furt 11er information call Campus Editor Ted Price at: 
283-1715  (office)  
or  
283-8946  (room)  


WOULD YOU LIKE TO BE 

A SWINGER, AND HAV£ 
YOUR OWN POLAROID? 
WHEN YGU PURCHAS.E YUUK OWN 
SCRIPTO PEN AT THE BOOKSTORE, 
THE CASHIER WILL GIVE YOU 
A LUCKY NUMBER WHICH COUJ,D 
BE THE ONE DRAWN ON MARCH 10. 
BE SURE TO PURCHASE YOUR 
SCRIPTO PEN AND ALSO ENTER THE: 
SCRIPTO MYSTERY TOUR 
You have nothing to lose. And everything to gain. Just send In your Mystery Tour entry blank. 
10 Lucky Gals and 10 Lucky Guys will tour Europe-together­like It's never been toured before. Four weeks of joy and ecstacy, In Europe's grooviest cities. You start In London-the rest Is a 
mystery. Only the bus driver knows 
the way. 

B_lstros by night. Beaches by day. Scripta will wine you and dine you ••. all for the price of a juicy Scripta pen. 
A vall able at the Notre Dame Hammes Bookstore 
OBSERVER. It is understandable why Mr. Hynes has such animosity toward me-the Judicial Board decision sentencing his Vaciline compat­riot, Marty McNamara, to a seven day suspension must have been a bitter defeat for the radical leftists. llynes may jus­
tify  labeling  me  a  "mindless  
idiot"  in  his  own  mind,  but  I  
wonder  how  he,  as  an  alleged  

crusader for love, freedom, jus­tice, and truth, can sleep peace­fully at night knowing full well that he is again contradicting and opposing his own campaigns 





The Mail 
and convictions by slandering others with untruths. By accus­ing "the Narucki's, the mindless idiots who sell buttons inscribed with ballistic missiles and the words 'drop it'," he is complete­ly incognizant of any definition of justice and truth, and lf love and freedom consist of attempt­ing to deny others of their God­given right to take legal action to defend the freedoms of the rest of the community, within the confines of our legal system, then I have been operating under some gross misconceptions for an awfully long time. However, most of us will whole-heartedly agree that this is not so. I fail to find any justification for Mr. llynes' incrimination of my actions. Someone attributing to himself such outstanding and laudable ideals, as Mr. Hynes surely does, should be expected to act in accordance with his so-called principles. The absurd­ity of llynes' accusation is indeed an unmistakable lie, but is certainly indicative of the ty pica! "radical" policy-just 


ourself with a sweet-sounding moral crusade, and procede to resort to any means necessary to obtain your selfish goals. 
Yours sincerely, Robert J. Narucki 358 Badin 

Respect Editor: I used to respect Don Hynes. used to think that Don Hynes was a sincere person who was truly interested in discovering that most elusive of all qualities which we call "truth." I fre­quently disagreed with his an­swers, more often than most people would suspect I agreed. I no longer respect Don Hynes. In his recent column, Hynes dismissed Bob Narucki as a "mindless idiot." Now, bitter leftist rhetoric aside, his choice of words betrays a mentality that is becoming more and more predominant in the once free­thinking New Left; that is, to accept, without dispute, that one's opponents are wrong and therefore are totally without value as human beings. l remember earlier this year, Hynes wrote a column about how he had wanted to discover how anyone could possibly vote for Dick Nixon. In order to find out he asked a few hall maids and janitors that happened to drift out to a rally for Ronald Reagan. As YR Chairman, naturally I was disappointed at his summary of what he took to be the reasons people were voting for Nixon and, still feel­ing that he was a sincere. person, I offered to sit down with him 
GJ!Yi)urethinking ofthe 'Religious CLife ... 

Qo Ofle8tepPurthef 
If you are seriously thinking of the priesthood, the ques­tion becomes not "what" but "who." 
Who can allow you to utilize your own innate talents? Who is most attuned to our times? Who can offer the most freedom in your work? 
The answer is the Paulists. Their goal is to meet the needs of all God's people as they arise in each era and each age. The Paulist tries to make Christ, His teach­ings and His Church more understandable to those he can reach. 
In our recent Renewal Chap­ter we established the guide­lines by which a Paulist seminarian and priest would operate in these changing times. A summary of these renewal principh.:s is avail­able to those who question "whether a priest can really be with it today." 
To find out more about the Paulist spirit, send for an illustrated brochure and a summary of our Renewal Chapter Guidelines. 
Write to: 
Vocation Director 

cpaulist 

Pathe~ 
Room 213 AW 415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 
and explain why I was for Nixon in somewhat more coherent terms. I was told that he was too busy. 
It is my sincere hope that Don Hynes and the others off his band of merry pranksters will someday regain the open-mindedness and honesty they once possessed, for today they have become small, mean people who arc hypocrites and have lost the gift of laughter. 

Mike Kelly Bickering on bickering Editor: It would seem that the community government at SMC is cramped as to the extent of its powers. Earlier in the year, a fuss was made over jurisdiction: does it lie in the committee on residence halls or the campus legislature or the student affairs committee or the student affairs council, etc, in areas like change in hours, guests on campus, smoking rules, dress rules, legal rights of students, etc. Then, I was amused by the bickering; now, I am disgusted with it. We have been given "power" in a game of trivial, but when it comes to meaningful issues, the concept of community government is considered a joke. The purpose of the system is "to maintain a harmonious balance of responsibility among students, faculty, and administration by insuring continuous communication and by initiating mutual service". In view of the events of the past week, I have to laugh at the paradox. Unless "communi­cation" was interpreted to mean sidestepping the issue and "mutual service" twisted to read liege obedience ... Meanwhile, the preamble to the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities holds that the rights and responsibilities stated therein are to guarantee for the students "those conditions indispensable to the full achievement of this objective: that an academic community exists for the creation and communication of knowledge and the development of creativity and critical judgement in a sustained and independent search for truth". If this is the reasoning behind such a statement, perhaps the administration had better adopt their own Statement of Rights and Responsibilities, or at least begin to act in awareness of the objective of the present orie. Peace, 
LAST FOUR DAYS 


M~trOt ,,,,., 

The Observer Is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Oame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 191)9

PAGE 4 
THE OBSERVER 





So who needs Jim Ryun, anyhow? 
By MIKE P A VLIN 
Observer Sports Writer 
The University of Kansas kept its star distance performer, Jim Ryun, on the sidelines, but still had plenty of manpower to dominate the 43rd annual Central Collegiate Conference track and field meet. The Jayhawks won nine of the 21 events and accounted for five of the eight new meet records in piling up l 79 points to Notre Dame's total of 112. 
Saturday afternoon, Ryun jogged awhile on the Convo track, but a nagging foot injury forced him to drop out of the Two Mile Run. That event was won by Ed Morris of Kent State in a slow 9:01.2, with meet record holder Oscar Moore of Southern Illinois second. 
George Byers provided a piece of two marks by tying old standards in the 60-yard High, and Low Hurdles. In the highs, Byers led a Kansas onslaught which captured first, second, fifth and sixth places. Byers hit the mark of 0:07.3 in both the semifinals and finals. He duplicated that feat in the low~. with two 0:06.7 timings. 
Karl Salb and two Jayhawk teammates made shambles of the Shot Put competition. Salb beat the old meet record by almost three feet with a heave of 63'-11 %". Steve Wilhelm and Doug Knop placed second and 
NCAA race 
After Dayton's 61-58 victory over Chattanooga Saturday, the race for NCAA at-large berths among top independents in the mideast regional stands: 
'Marquette  19-4  
Notre Dame  18-5  
Dayton  18-6  
Most  of  the  at-large  

berths will be announced at 
9:30 a.m. Tuesday. Should the Irish receive a mideast bid, they will play either the winner of the Ohio Valley Conference or Mid-American Conference March 8 in Carbondale, Ill. 
The Ohio Valley chase was scrambled Saturday when East Tennessee upset Murray State 87-81 and Morehead State edged Western Kentucky 78-77. The OVC standings: Murray State 10-3 Morehead State 9-3 Western Kentucky 9-3 
Murray's only remaining game is a home contest with Western Kentucky March 1. Morehead entertains Tennessee Tech March 1 and journeys to East Tennessee March 3. Western Kentucky travels to Murray March 1 and hosts Austin Peay March 3. 
The Mid-American Conference shows: Miami (Ohio) 9-2 Ohio U. 8-3 
Miami can clinch a berth by winning at Toledo March 
1. Ohio's only reraaining conference battle is March 1 at Bowling Green. 
third. The Kansas Distance 
Medley Relay unit lowered the 
old standard to 9:51.1. 
The Pole Vault boiled down 
to a struggle between Western 
Michigan's defending champ and 
record-holder Wayne Lambert, 
and Kansas' Bob Steinhoff. With 
the bar at 16'-0", Lambert failed 
on his first two tries. On the 
third attempt, he appeared to 
clear, but apparently let go of 
his pole too late and brought 
down the bar. Steinhoff then 
made certain with a fine vault 
officiall; measured at 15'-11 
7/8"~ Most of the crowd stuck 
around to watch him have a go 
at 16'-4", but Steinhoff never 


Grapplers victorious 
Notre Dame defeated Marquette University in a wrestling match held last Friday in the Convo Center. Two pins by the Irish led the way to the 19-14 victory. 
Victorious grapplers were Ken Ryan ( 145 lb.) and Jim Hansen (152 lb.) who pinned their opponents. This was the first match for co-captain Hansen since his injury. Other ND wins were by decision as Tom Ciaccio ( 127 lb.), Mike Higgins ( 160 lb.) and Greg Abrams (167 lb.) outpointed their Warrior foes. 
Tom Fallon's men now stand 
at 4-1 in dual meets and 8-2-1 
overall for the season. The next 
match is tomorrow afternoon in 
Chicago where the Irish will take 
on Illinois Tech. 
123lbs.-Tom Ciaccio (ND) decisioned John Phillipion (M), S-2. 
130 lbs.-Rick Paulson (M) decisioned Gary Jones (ND), 10-0. 
137 lbs.~Dennis O'Brien (M) decisioned Mike Duell (ND), 12-3. 
145 lbs.-Ken Ryan (ND) 
pinned John Capelli (M), 6:27. 
152 lbs.-Jim Hansen (ND) 
pinned Paul White (M), 4:33. 
160 lbs.-Mike Higgins (ND) 
decisioned Bill Bezdicheck (M), 
3-4. 
167 lbs.-Greg Abrams (ND) 
decisioned Dan Policheh (M), 
13-11. 
177 lbs.-Frank Galka (M) 
pinned Bill Hasbrook (ND), 
7:29. 
Heavy-Keith Koziczkowski 
(M) decisioned Gary Hagopian (ND), 13-1. 

Fencers stop four opponents 
Last week the Irish fencers suffered their first loss of the season at the hands of Ohio State. This setback ended an II match win streak. However, ND began to pick up the pieces that same afternoon by defeating Michigan State. 
This weekend the swordsmen of Mike DeCicco added four victories to begin a new win streak. They defeated Indiana Friday in Bloomington 19-7. On Saturday they traveled to Illinois and edged the Illini 14-13, beat Wisconsin 21-6, and massacred Vanderbilt 27-0. That shutout could possibly be an NCAA fencing record. 
The results of this weekend are a 16-l season record and a new five game winning streak. The next match for ND will come this Saturday v,;. Tennessee at the ACC. 

really got close in three tries. timing. Teammate Ole Skarstein, 
Notre Dame: Distance MedleyMike Gross of Western who tied for the seventh and last 
(4th); Freshman Mile (4th); and Michigan threw the 35-ib. spot in the finals, finished in a Two-Mile (5th).Weight six feet past the old tie for fourth. As another 
ND freshman Mike record at 53'-8%". S >Uthern Irishman put it, "Everyone went 
McMannon spent a profitableIllinois set a new mark in the out trying to run with Hurd, and 
two days around the long jumpTwo-Mile Relay, with a clocking when they got tired, Ole slipped 
pit. Friday evening he placedof 7:36.0. in. Trying to run with Hurd in 
second in the Triple Jump after Notre Dame provided one of the 300 doesn't work." 
scaring Coach Alex Wilson half the best record performances in Hurd also anchored the Irish 
to death by fouling on his first the person of Rick Wohlhuter. Mile Relay quartet to a second two attempts. His 48.-9'12'' leap The sophomore from St. place spot. ND originally stood up until Ken Gaines of 
Charles, Illinois ran away from finished third behind Kansas and Kansas topped it by three inches his competition in the 600-yard Drake, but the Jayhawks were on his final jump. When he run. His time of l :09,4 disqualified because of some found out that there were only 
established a new ND school extracurricular elbowing. Three four men entered in the High record, broke the old meet other relay teams placed for Jump, McMannon hurried over, record by a full second, and cleared 6'-even, and took third!. came within two-tenths of a Unsympathetic officials,


Swimmers
second to the indoor record. (In however, disqualified him a duel meet between Michigan because he wasn't properly State and Ohio over the entered before the event. weekend, Spartan sprinter Bill Saturday afternoon, McMannon Wehrwein ran the 600 in I:08.6 Dennis Stark's swimmers got finished second in the Long to set and unofficial US record. back on the winning track Jump, behind another of the 
The Irish dominated the Saturday, as the Irish mermen ever-present Kansans, Ron 
middle distance events by taking posted an impressive 66-46 win Jessie. the 880 and I ,000-Yard Runs over Northwestern at Rockne Filling up the Irish point total besides the 600. Mike McCann Pool. were: freshman Elio Polselli, placed third to Wohlhuter, star In so doing the Irish snapped with a pair of fifth places in the freshman Joe Brady took the a three meet losing streak and 35-lb. Weight Throw and Shot 880 with Mark Walsh third, and upped their season mark to 6-3. Put; Ed Broderick, a second in Joe Quigley won the 1,000. This afternoon the Irish take on the High Jump; and Joe 
Bill (Soul Bird) Hurd boosted another rugged Big ten team in Quaderer, fourth in the Irish hopes by winning his Purdue. The action gets Two-Mile Run. specialties, the 60-and 3 00-Yard underway at 4:00 pm at The 

top Cats 
TEAM STANDINGS

Dashes. His 0:06.3 barely nipped Rock. 
Kansas

Kansas' Stan Whitley in the 60, Captain John May did it all on 
Notre Dame :12

while ND's Jack Samar finished Saturday, taking the I 00 and ·~ 
Western Michigan 75

sixth. Hurd zoomed to an easier 200 yard freestyle and anchoring 
Orale 
56

victory in the 300 with a 0:30.6 the victorious 400 yard freestyle 
Southern Illinois 
51
relay team. In all the Irish took 
Kent State

Irish cagers eight of thirteen events for the 31 
Kentucky State 19
afternoon. 
Loyola (Chicago) 14

assault records Freshmen ace Frank Fahey 
Air Force IOY2
doubled on the winning 400

CAREER SCORING Bo wling Green 7
yard medley relay and in his

*Tom Hawkins 1820 Wayne State 4
specialty the 200 yard butterfly. 

Bob Arnzen 1611 Toledo 3Y2
Other Irish winners included

Bob Whitmore 1538 Central Michigan
Mike Davis in the 50 yard
CAREER FG% 
freestyle and Tom Roth in the

*Larry Sheffield .438 leers win again
200 yard breaststroke. John Cox
Arnzen 645-1323 .488 
placed well in the diving events,

Whitmore 594-1242 .478 Hot-handed Phil Wittliff
taking the one meter 

SEASON FT% scored five goals, four in the first
competition and a second in the 

*John McCarthy .846 period, as the Irish icers
three meter event. Mike O'Connell .833 demolished the Purdue club
Next weekend the Irish hit CAREER FT% the road for back to back meets team, 14-4. Nine players scored *McCarthy 278-357 .779 
with Cincinatti on Friday and goals in the romp despite an Arnzen 321-395 .813 
Ohio University on Saturday abbreviated third S•anza. *Denotes all-time record holders afternoon. 

CCC track summary 
35 POUND WEIGHT THROW: 1. (Kansas); 2. Mike Jackson (Drake) 3. 6o---YARD LOW HURDLES: !. Mike Gross (WMU); 2. Warren AI Pinston (Kentucky STate; 4. Dave George Byers (Kansas); 2. bob Converse (WMU); 3. Steve Hoffman Wagner (Loyola); 5. Barry Ueboultz Bornkessell (Kamas); 3. Ken Jackson (Kent State); 4. F.L. Blackstone (SIU); 6. George Cato (Air Force); (WMU); 4. Bill Buzzard (SIU); 5. 
(SIU); 5. Elio Poiselll (NO); 6. Dan time-:48.7. Scott Sharpe (Drake); 6. Charles Litzinger (Bowling Green); distance 30o---YARD RUN: 1. Bill Hurd Bostrum (WMU)' time-:06.7, ties -53·8112, new CCC record; old record (NO); 2. tom Randolph (WMU); 3. CCC record of • .:>6.7. set by Craigheld by Mark Cox (SIU) of 47-9112, Orin Richburg (Kent State); 4. (tie) Wallace (Kentucky State), 1966. 1968. Ole Skarstein (ND) and Herman 
TWO MILE" RUN: 1. Edmup

DISTANCE MEDLEY RELAY: !. Williams (Kc;1tucky State); 6. Dave Kansas (Neilhouse, Kathol, J. Ray (SIU) time-:30.6. 
Norris (Kent State); 2. Oscar Moo• Hatcher, Smith)' 2. Darke; 3. Kent FRESHMAN ONE MILE RUN: 1. 
(SIU); 3. Elliott Evans (Drake); • State; 4. Notre Dame; 5. Western Dave Wattle (Bowling. Green); 2. 
Joe Quaderer (NO); 5. Mike Hazillo Michigan; 6. Bowling Green; time-Gary Harris (WMU); 3. Ken Dawson 
(WMU); 6. John collet ( DePaul); time-9:01.2.
9:51.1, new CCC record; old record (Kent STate); 4. Keith (Bowling held by Drake of 9:56.9, 1968. Green) 5. Bill McGuire (Loyola); LONG JUMP: 1. Ron Jessie TRIPLE JUMP: !. Kenny Gaines time-4: 15.0. Kansas); 2. Mike McMannon (NO); (Kansas); 2. Mike McMannon (NO); 600-YARD RUN:! Rick . Don Robinson (Wayne State); 4. 
3. Don Miller (SIU); 4. Ivery Lewis Wohlhuter (NO); 2. Randy Julian ,ill Framke (Drake): 5. Jim Mitchell (SIU); 5. Jim Mitchell (WMU); 6. (Kansas); 3. Mlkk McCann (NO); (WMU); 6. Jon Bear (Air Force); Don Robinson (Wayne State); James Penn (Kentucky State); 5. Bill distance-25·0. distance -49-01/2. Nobles (WMU); 6. Bobby Morrow 
FRESHMAN ONE MILE RELA"HIGH JUMP: 1. Tod Murphy (SIU); time -1:09.4, new CCC 1 • Loyola (Siyluka, Malara, Ade
(SIU); 2. Ed Broderick (ND); 3. Mike record; old record held by Bill Boyle Brozowski); 2. Western Michigan; : 
McMannon (NO); 4. Warren Converse 

(NO) of 1:10.4,1964. l\ent State; 4. Notre Dame; f
(WMU); height-6-6. SHOT PUT: !. Karl Salb (Kansas); 
Bowling Green; time-3:23.6. 
ONE MILE RUN: 1. Doug Smith 2. Steve Wilhelm (Kansas); 3. doug (Kansas); 2. Rich Elliot (Kansas); 3. Knop (Kansas); 4. Dean Langenderfer 
ONE MILE RELAY: (Kan placed first, but was disqualifies ·Sid Sir1k (Bowling Green); 4. Mike (Toledo}; 5. Elio Polselli (NO); 6. Hazilla (WMU); 5. Clark Bunton (Air Ron Kuzme (Kent State); distance-
fouling); 1. Drake (Dunn, Stiles, 51< Force); 6. Paul Talkington (Bowling 63·111/2, new CCC record; old record 
Kackson); 2. Notre Dame; Green); time-4:14.1. held by George Woods (SIU) of 61-0, 
Kentucky State; 4. Loyola; 5. Central 60·YARD HIGH HURDLES: 1. 1966, held Michigan; 6. Air Force; time-George Myers (Kansas). 2. Ron Jessie 88Q-YARD RUN: 1. Jim Brady 3:18.8. (Kansas); 3. Ken Jackson (WMU); 4. (NO); 2. Warren Whitted (Drake); 3. 
POLE VAULT: 1. Bob Steinh~
Chuck Bostram (WMU); 5. Kenny Mark Walsh (NO); 4. Paul Mattingly (Kansas); 2. Wayne Lambert (WMU);Gaines (Kansas); 6. Bob Bornkessell (Kansas); time-1:53.4. 3.-Bill Hatcher (Kijnsas); 4. Jeff(Kansas); time -:07.3, ties CCC 

1 000-YARD RUN: 1. Joe Snyder (Air Force); 5. (tie) Tom
record of :07. held by three 

Quigley (NO); 2. Jim Neilhouse Miller (Central Michigan) and Rickindividuals. 
(Kansas); 3. Jack Magelssen (WMU); Abbot (Air Force); height-15·11TWO MILE RELAY: !. Southern 
4. Gordon Hoffert (Drake); 5.Steve an I 7/8, new CCC record; old rec• d
Illinois (Morrow, Uliye, Naider, 

Johnson (Drake); 6. Glenn Ujiye held by Wayne Lambert (WMU) •f
Hinton); 2. (Kansas); 3, L9yola; 4' 

(SIU); time-2:09.9. 15-8, 1968.
Drake; 5. Notre Dame; 6. Bowllng Green; time -7:36.0, new CCC record ; old record held by Drake of 7:39.9, 1968. 
60·YARD DASH: 1. Bill Hurd (NO); 2. Stan Whitley (Kansas); 3. 
Mickey Mathews (Kansas); 4. Tom Randolpll (WMU); 5. Orin Richburg (Kent State); 6. Jack Samar (NO); time-:06.3. 
44o---YARD RUN: 1. Julio Meade 




