
VOL. IV, NO. 31 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1969 
Halls to plan Anti-Racism programs 
by Jim Graif its own situation and set up its · Jim Rocap, speaking for the own individual program. Students Against Racism, last The main purpose of the pro­night asked the Hall President's gram is to change the attitudes Council for assistance in setting of students about racism, Rocap 
up weekend anti-racism pro­emphasized. grams in each hall. fie felt that a lot of people Rocap explained that the who are not vocally anti-black 
program would center around are wondering about black separ­discussions amoung students ation and black culture. He concerning their feelings on thought that these people would 
racial issues. The proposed idea particularly benefit from the would call for an encounter ses­
program. sion on Thursday night in which HPC chairman Tom Suddes blacks and whites would air their explained the procedure con­complaints and feelings. This en­cerning the selection of Hall Fel­counter, Rocap thought, could lows. Each hall is to submit a list 
become very emotional. On Fri­of faculty members that the hall day and Saturday of the week­would like to have as Fellows. end p10grams there would be Then Fellows would be ap­several 20 to 30 minute rap ses­Pointed to various halls ac­sions among small groups of peo­cording to the lists. He pointed ple on various topics. He hoped out that the purpose of the pro­that on Sundays a few students gram is to increase contact be­
would then take the ideas of the tween students and faculty program back to the section through informal meetings and members. hall social events. In reply to a question, Rocap Social Commissioner Dave said that each hall would handle Vecchi asked the Council mem-

Kennedy Institute develops program 
by Uill Carter 
Student Government are 
In its first official function at co-sponsoring the night with the Not rc Dame, the Kennedy Institute in charge of the Institute will hold a "social operation. action night" tonight in 
When the meeting opens atLaFortune Student Center. The 7:30 there will be speakers from purpose of the meeting as some of the South Bend groups;outlined by Institute Chairman 
including the Chamber of
John Mroz is to get all the social Commerce, the Urban League,action groups from Notre Dame, and the M~rant Workers. MrozSt. Mary's, and South Bend emphasized that the eveningtogether for one night so that would be conducted veryanyone interested in getting informally and that anyoneinvolved with the social action could come in anytime betweenmovements in the area can 7:30 and 10 to talk to some ofexamine all the programs at once 
the people there. Those 


interested in joining one or more of the groups will be able to s~n up right away. Each group expects to have plenty of printed information available describing the purposes of their 
organizations  and  what  their  
programs  for  the  coming  year  
will be.  

This will be the first time that the Kennedy Institute is opened to membership from the Student Body. Mroz said he planned on having handouts to distribute which would describe how the organization was founded and 
where it intends to go.
John Mroz 
"Another big reason why and decide which he would like we're having this night is because to join. if the groups will be able to sign 
"What we're really hoping is of Foundations willing to give us that the guys who arc not grants if we could supply a list involved in one of these with the names of the members. activities already will come They'd like to talk to some of down and talk to people and sec the people in the organization to what they're interested in. We've get some idea of how committed 
had hundreds of calls from we really are to social action." pcopk who wanted to find out 
The Institute will have a listahout the Institute's plans for of all the new organizationslhis year but who didn't know formed this year that they willhow to go ahout joining or just he associated with. Mroz said hegetting some information" Mroz expects a big turnout.
said he thought there would he about IS or 20 organizations The meeting will he in the rcprest·ntcd at the meeting. The Main Lobhy of the Student Kennedy Institute and the Center. 


bers to express their feelings to­cart. He hoped that the halls from the event. Vecchi said thal ward the running of Grand Prix. would not sell the carts since the the committee would try to 
The primary problem con­Social Commission wishes to ex­open up the event more. He fronting most of the halls was pand the event this year. He mentioned that some halls had that of finances. Several halls pointed out that a chairman for engaged sponsors to pay for part 
have not paid for their carts and the event had not yet been ap­of the cost. have no way of raising money to pointed and that once the chair­pay for them. Vecchi explained man is selected the event will get Each Ball President was 
asked to write a report on histhat the halls had signed con­more publicity and concrete hall's feelings toward hall au­tracts for the carts and must pay planning steps will be taken. 

tonomy and student responsibili­

the Social Commission $1 00 for Another problem mentioned ty. These reports will be pre­
their cart. After that the halls was that usually only a small would be free to keep or sell the group within the hall benefits sented to the SLC. 
Hesburgh tells problems and plans 
by Jim Holsinger problems and communicate. "the institutional answer." "I At the meeting, he discussed don't think the success of the
The Rev. Theodore M. Hes­several of the programs now un­university is opening its doors

burgh, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, spoke der study by various committees every morning," he said. of the problems facing the Uni­including coeducation, an urban 
Hesburgh then reported that 

versity and the programs and coalition to be organized in the the Curriculum Revision Com­mittee should report to the Uni­
policies for its future at the 18th South Bend community, the versity Council soon with their
annual faculty meeting held yes­proposed Black Studies Program terday in Washington Hall. and the program for the study of proposals for change. The goals and principles of this committee
H esburgh 's address to the non-violence. 
were discussed in a letter by Fr.

faculty, which lasted slightly Hesburgh emphasized the im­
o ver an hour, began by analy­portance of the relationship be­Hesburgh last year, and he stated yesterday that this committee
zing the university's present t ween Notre Dame and the 
financial situation. South Bend community. The has attempted to analyze the 
"I know of no other period university will make its academic society in which we live. By their analysis and suggestions,
when the university is expected resources available to South to do so much, and is given less Bend community leaders to help the committee hoped to provide 
solve urban problems. the Notre Dame student with ain resources to do it," Hesburgh In the future students may diversity and freedom of educa­said. Rising operating costs and a be given lab credits for work tion to be able to choose an ac­

twenty year period of explosive growth were blamed for the pre­done in areas of South Bend as a ceptable life style. sent financial problems. part of the new Urban Studies Hesburgh told the faculty 
that Notre Dame had a good stu­Hesburgh revealed that Notre Program. 

llesburgh described the Black dent-faculty ratio, hut that heDame has grown from 8%-12% Studies Program, which is plan­felt that there was an enormouseach year since World War II. 
ned to take effect next fall as feeling in the student body that

The University has remained fluid over this period only be­"not new in its reality, but new the faculty should be more avail­cause of an increased income in our perception of its reality or able. "I don't know that this uni­
from tuition, endowments, and its urgency." 
versity could be anything ifthe generosity of the contribu­The budget for this year in­ting alumni. Now, with the tui­cludes some funds for a black re­

there weren't a continual rela­tion charge rising only 5% per cruitment program which is also 
tionship between the faculty and the students," he said. 

year, the university is faced with supported by the student He spoke further of thea budget deficit of $800,000 this government. Hcshurgh promised "levels of competence" in theyear. Hesburgh told of the diffi­to seck more aid for this pro­university and their action. "Weculties of balancing the budget, gram and scholarship aid for in­can't build a community byand called for understanding and coming black students. 
falsifying the competence of

cooperation in deciding priori­Hesburgh said that the uni­ties. versity is the microcosm of the anyone." He emphasized that educa­country and society. Just as the The levels of competence, he country must seek some anchors explained were the faculty, the
tion was the university's top priority, and said that the uni­for its rapidly evolving society, ad ministration, the alumni and versity must look carefully at the university must place an em­the Board of Trustees and the 
phasis on the humanities in the students. The levels each have aHesburgh reiterated his ideas particular purpose in thr com­age of dchumani7.ation.
on the University Forum, and 
new operations. munity, but llesburgh said thatpointed out that it would bring Hcsburgh vowed to seek an the students were the reason he­the different members of the answer beyond what he called hind the university.
community together to discuss 

PAGE 2 
by Tom Bornholdt A stolen car battery and malicious destruction of light bulbs were among several inter­esting crimes committed last weekend; it was reported yester­day by Director of Security Arthur Pears. During the weekend, Ken Decessare reported his car sto­len. It was found pushed in the woods near the southeastern cor­

stereo tape player stolen to­
gether with three tapes. Later he 
changed his report to five stereo 
Guys and Dolls 
Both Go For 
Black Angus 
Fine steaks properly broiled at prices you can live with. Pleasant surroundings, comfortable booths and chairs, a little background music and a smile from the folks who serve you. Choice of dinners to match your taste: 
1. 
Sirloin ....................... $1.59 

2. 
Rib Eye ...................... .l.29 

3. 
Chopped Sirloin .......... 1.09 

4. 
N.Y. Strip ................... 1.89 

5. 
Ham Steak .................. 1.19 

6. 
Fish Fillet ...................... 99 7.% lb. Hamburger Platter 


1 
.iii
il!'=it:~:yg:~:~::~~d :.) . set with diamonds ;·\··\\f:ii::=:m;J0 platin~rn,, 375. :•::.•:., .......::l::::::::•.·:]::l:·.::t:::•·.. ·· 

715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. 
CHICAGO 
PHONE: 944-7500•ZIP: 60611 
Sales tax additional 
ncr of the C3 lot. The cable had been cut and the battery was missing. Nothing else was stolen. 
0 n Sunday, student John Reale discovered the car owned by his sister Patricia had been broken into. The only things he could find missing were the reg­istration papers and a console cover. 
Around 6:00 p.m. Sunday, Joseph Skelton, a student, repor­ted his car broken into and its 
with French Fries..79 



STEAK BOUSE 
1516N.Ironwuod Just N. ofl:'dison 
tapes pIus a flashlight. The stereo tape player was valued at $100. 
At 2:35 a.m. Sunday, cam­pus security received a call from a group of students who were holding a fellow student. This student had been shooting out light bulbs in the vicinity of Badin and Howard with a sling shot. This annoyed a group of students who caught and re­strained him until campus secur­ity arrived. 
Pears felt that the increase of crime that had occurred at the beginning of the year, appears 
to be tapering off. 

Lack of quorum postpones budget 
Failure of the finance Com­mittee to meet yesterday after­noon may prevent the Student Government from introducing their version of the 1969-70 budget to the Student Senate to­night. 
The Senate, however, will 
probably  get  to  the  budget  at  
t h e i r  m e e t i  n g  t o m o r­ 
row.  

According to student body Treasurer John Coughlin, the finance Committee found itself lacking a quorum today when Fr. Charles McCarraghcr, vice -president in charge of Student Affairs, and faculty advisor Pro­fessor John Houck were unable to attend due to prior committ­ments. Coughlin says he has "little doubt" that the budget, which is slightly in excess of fif­ty-nine thousand dollars, will be accepted in the final Finance Committee report. 
"No organization got as much as it asked for," said Coughlin, in explaining the bud­get, "and some of the organiza­tions had their budget cut entire­ly." Coughlin declined to reveal the names of the organizations whose budgets were cut, stating that he would prefer to wait un­til he could notify all the organi­zations and explain the decisions of the committee. 
samts and saints' days are, for many, closely associated with the menacing rattle of massive black rosary beads, dangling at eye level from a nun's waist. The secular mind will find it hard to see the point of studying the Jives and the men and women who~ the Church commemorates today; but we would d? well to consider­models now much ignored, even on this most ChnstJan campus. most Christian campus. 
The two best-known saints are Simon and Jude. Both are referred to as the "brothers" of Jesus in Butler's and Baring-Gould's versions of The Lives of the Saints. Simon was called the Zealot, that is, one of a group of Jews who fought the Romans for the liberation of Palestine, resorting to terrorism in their zeal for the honor and ~ra­ditional purity of their religion. Jude had been a farmer, marned, with two sons, before the two were called to be apostles. It was Jude who, after the last supper, asked Jesus why he did not instigate a movement to bring his Word into the world, as the Messiah's reign was expected to be in an earthly kingdom. They understood after the Resurrection. 
After the Ascension, Simon became a missionary to the East and 
was finally crucified, it is said, by the priests of the idols ot tne 
Persian state power. Jude was crucified and speared to death, also in 
Persia, after having written an Epistle. His sons continued as poor 
farmers, with little land, until they were brought before the emperor 
to be condemned as Christians, to prevent revolt against the Roman 
power. Their simple faith in a kingdom not of this world made them 
seem so harmless that they were freed. Another first-century disciple 
was Thaddeus, who is said to have been brought before the king of 
lands east of the Euphrates, who had an incurable disease; the king 
was cured. Thaddeus refused the king's reward, saying, "If we have 
left our own goods, how shall we take the things that belong to 
others?" 
The next group of ~aints remembered today lived in the second 
half of the third century, when the Church had spread throughout 
the Empire. St. Firmilian was a student of philosophy who became, 
as Bishop of Cappadocia, an important leader in a series of synods. 
The councils declared baptisms conducted by heretics to be invalid, 
in accordance with the earliest Church traditions. Pope Stephen re­
fused to accept the decisions; Firmilian labelled him a schismatic, 
one who had broken away from the unity of the Church and the 
worst of heretics -"in Rome," he wrote, "things are done without 
tradition to support them, and arc pretended to have apostolic 
authority." The Church was reunited when Stephen died soon after­
wards. 
Firmilian was later to lead the attack against a heretic, Bishop 
Paul of Antioch, who denied the divinity of Christ, but died before 
the debate was resolved. St. Malchion, also commemorated today, 
took up the issue. A skillful and well-studied debater, he exposed the 
heresy; Paul was deposed. 
St. Fidclis, of the same period, was one of three Roman soldiers 
who deserted the army rather than do sacrifice to the Emperor. They were caught in the mountains to which they had fled, and executed there. Two other martyrs whose day is October 28 are Sts. Anastasia and Cyril. The tradition is that Anastasia was seized from a community of consecrated virgins, stripped, and tortured. When her tongue had been cut out and her teeth broken, Cyril, a bystander, gave her a drink of water -he was seized and the two were be­


headed together by the Roman authority. Two more of the saints of the day Jived centuries after the fall of Rome, when the Church was supported by the power of kings. The 
differences between these saints and the ones of earlier times is suggestive of how the times had changed with the growing alliance of Church and State. St. Faro was a french nobleman. Although his life 




SMOKEY ROBINSON 
and the 
at court is said to have been devoted "to the protection of the distressed," he and his wife decided to devote all their energies to the spiritual life. They separated, she to a convent and he to become

MIRACLES 
Bishop of Meaux. At night he struggled with his desires for her, and 
was rejected three times; he "gave himself up thenceforth wholly to 
the care of his diocese, so as to stifle his regrets.'. 
St. Neat was also a nobleman, of English stock. After spending his youth in intense study, he entered a cell where he engaged in fasts and had visions of angels for seven years. Great men, including King Alfred, sought his advice. "Being much troubled in his vouth with temptations of impurity, he earnestly begged God that he might oe aeuvered tram that dangerous enemy, and that he might rather be 

Athletic and Convocation Center 
Sat. Nov. 1 
afflicted with some constant painful distemper. From that time, he was freed from these alarming assaults, but felt a very painful dis­order, which seems ... to have been an excruciating sort of piles, or
SPM 
a fistula " 
Midwest Athletic ·Equipment Co. 
517 N.tHill St. '232-9550 Only 7 blocks from campus ·

TICKETS ON SALE $2, $4, $5 
Con11erse AU-Stars Hockey Sticks+ Skates 
Adidas Track-Basketball-Soccer Shoes N.D. Jackets+ Emblems 



TONIGHT IN THE DINING HALLS 
SENIOR BAR 

presents OPEN HOUSE 
tonight-members, NON-MEMBERSPresented by Student Union Social Commission and 

and SMC girls invited Athletic and Convocation Center 
Guys must be 21 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28,1969 THE OBSERJJER. PAGE 3 
--,---------------------------------------------­



Defense Dept. shuts down bases 
WASHINGTON (UJ>I) The Defense Department will close or reduce operations at 307 bases in the United States and overseas, it was announced yes­terday. The economy measure will eliminate 64,800 jobs and save $609 million a year. 
Defense Secretary Melvin R. Laird said in announcing the ac­tion that the U.S, and Puerto Rican bases involved would be announced tomorrow but that "decisions involving overseas in­stallalions will not be announced until necessary consultations with host countries have been completed.' 
Jerry W. Friedha m, a Pen­tagon spokesman, said the cut­back was part of Lairds $3 bil­lion economy program announc­ed Aug. 21. lle said the person­nel reductions announced yes­terday did not add to the 220,000 man reduction military strength and the 68,000 man cut in civilian employment already 

Cornell on D.C. march 
Mr. Thomas Cornell, present chairman of the Catholic Peace Fellowship, will speak Wednes­day on "Non-violence and Mass Movements." The speech is sponsored by the Program for the Study and Practice of the Non-violent Resolution of Hu­man Conflict and will be at 8 
p.m. in the Engineering Auditor­ium. The speech will consider the tactics and purposes of the proposed march on Washington 
on the 14th of November. 
Mr. Cornell has written and Iec t ured extensively on non­violence. lie is a former editor of The Catholic Worker, has worked with C'atholic Worker houses of hospitality, and is now the editor of A l'enny A Copy. 

Charlie's 





STEREO TAPES 
8 TRACK 
List$6.98 

Charlie's Price 

$5.88 2 

H.AR.LJ:ES 
(.A H J U H ~I !!t •• I '-~ • ., 

OPEN DAILY 9 tn 6-1 
SAT. 8 Lm. to 5p.m. 
PH. 287·7218 

774 Lincoln Way East 

FTD florists 
the "out-of-town" 
specialist 
South Bend Floral Company 1522 Mishawaka Ave. South Bend, Ind. 46615 Phone: 287-1848 Across from John Adams Hi School 
l<ne Observer Is published dairy during the college semester except vacatiOns by the studen Is of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may bo purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 
In 1968, Mr. Cornell was im­
prisoned for burning a draft 
card. 
Bill Ryan, a Student Director 
of the Program for Non-violence, 
said, "It is very important that 
people who are considering 
going to Washington next month 
have an understanding of the 
purposes and tactics of a non­
violent mass movement, because 
if they do not understand this 
the movement cannot be non­
violent." 
l 
scheduled by the Defense De­partment to be achieved by July 
I. 
Senate Republican l-eader Hugh Scott said President Nixon will cut one million men from the nation's armed services be­fore 1972. He also predicted in a broadcast interview Sunday that Nixon would "bring back about 300,000 of our troops in Vietnam over a period," but he did not say how long a period he had in mind. 
Scott said he favored the closing of "unnecessary bases", including a few in Spain and 
would be "flatly against reduc­ing our commitments to West Berlin. 
Editor: Gaetano DeSapio Publisher: Donald C. Holiday Night Editors: John Knorr, 
Dave Bach Layout Design: Mary Chris Morrison Headlines: Prudence Wear Layout: Ann Conway, 
Patty Lipscomb 

last Chance For A 


Homecoming '69 Bids Tonight 7­Fiesta Lounge • LaFortune 
Morocco, although he said he 1-------------------------------j 
Choose one. Failure to comply means nothing at all. 
a) 
flunking out 

b) 
Girl/eft you 

c) 
don't like girls 

d) 
hung over 

e) 
apathetic 

f) 
ugfy so what ... 


Call the Ombudsman service 
1-2:30 Mon. thru Fri.

We'll listen 7638 
6:30-7:30 Mon. thru 


It wasn't too long agb that Bill Leith's future was still a big question mark. 
Today he's a man with the answers. 
...:._ ===:;;;;;;~illiiiiiiir.iiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;-;:iiiiiiiii;;;;;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii__.-------------=~-=-=-=-=-.:.==j 
Bill Leith started as one of our management trainees shortly after graduating from Lake Forest. 
Two years later he was an administrative assistant, handling new business for our Equity Management service. 
Just last June he became our youngest Assistant In­vestment Officer. His job is a big one. Our customers are likely to ask many searching ques-

MARINE MIDLAND GRACE 
TRUST COMPANY OF NEW YORK 
tions before entrusting their money to us. 
Bill has the answers. 
Responsibility? 
A small fortune's worth. 
But then we have lots of responsibility to hand out. 
If you'd like to know more about the opportunities at 
Marine Midland, please add your name to our schedule in the placement office. We'd like to see you on NOVEMBER 10,1969 
r 
~ 
PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28,1969 
•

Off -Campus first 3 -game w1nner 
Pangborn 28 -Morrissey 0 TD and caught a pass for ano­scoring. Bradt connected on a Pangborn dominated this ther. 28-yard pass to Micha for six. game with a wide-open passing Farley 24 -Cavanaugh 6 Chuck Reilly ran for the two­
at tack. John Tate threw 35 Farley's Mike Brandt threw a point conversion. As the game yards to Gary Daugherty for the 22-yard pass to John Conlisk to was drawing to a close Jeff first TD. Joe Dibartolomeo car­open the scoring. Bradt then Munn intercepted a Cavanaugh 
ried the ball for the second TD fired to John Micha for the two pass and returned it 44 yards for and a 14-0 halftime lead. Corky points and an 8-0 lead. Cava­a TD. Greg Richter carried for Castegnaro whipped a 16-yard naugh proceeded to drive down the final two points. halfback pass to Terry Lee for to the Farley three where Mike I(tl.tl.I).l!!.l 14 -Flanner 0 Pangborn's third score. Tom Beck pounced on a fumble to Keenan led 7-0 at the half on Cronin followed with a pass to prevent Cavanaugh from scoring. John Grieving's 4-yard sweep Dibartolomeo for the two-roint However, at the close of the half and Joe Garagiola's kick. In the conversion. The final score came Jim Aberle passed 15 yards to second half Ken O'Connell set on a 1-yard pass from Tate to Joe Scalia as Cavanaugh pulled up a Keenan TD by intercepting Castegnaro. Castegnaro "played a to within two, 8-6. Farley came a Flanner "pass and returning it fine game as he threw for one back to do all the second half to the 16. A few plays later Grie-
Williams state point leader 
INDIANAPOLIS (UPI) -place last week, added 20 points Brown, whose three touchdowns Anderson's Ted Williams re­to his total in Saturday's 78-43 against Northwestern catapulted placed teammate Neil Rector "bash" at Indiana Central, giving him into a challenging position Monday as Indiana's most pro­him 62 for the season. for the title. lific college football scorer, but Rector, who scored only Taylor's Joe Romine has a the title race remained wide once against the Greyhounds, distant fourth with 46 points. open. has 60 to share runnerup honors He scored all of the Trojans' 14 
Williams, tied for second this week with Purdue's Stan points against Manchester -just 
enough for a two point victory 
last Saturday. 
Keith Gerbers of Franklin was next with 43, but he only 
The Irish spent another frus­and Ken Foley, Greg Abrams added a fieldgoal to his season trating weekend on the soccer and Rick Coleman were very total in a losing effort against field as they lost to one oppo­"tough" on defense. Georgetown of Kentucky. nent and tied another to bring St. Francis of Fort Wayne Next, with 42 points each, their season record to 3-3-2, came back from a 1-0 deficit at were Indiana flanker Jade which is very surprising consider­the half and tied the Irish at 3-3 Butcher, who scored three times ing the high hopes that they felt with the aid of four penalty at Wisconsin; Indiana State's Jim at the beginning of the season. kicks. The Troubadors converted Brumfield and Roger Ward of 
On Saturday afternoon the two of these charity boots to de­Rose Poly, who went scoreless Irish absorbed their second shut­cide the outcome. John Ped­against Illinois College. out of the season, at the hands rotty, Abrams and Jim Schweit­Butler kicker Mike Caito was of Blackburn College. The final zer scored for the Irish. Chris ninth with 39 points, including score was 1-0. In this match the Hanlon and Schweitzer also seven fieldgoals. 
ND squad dominated play but added assists to help the ND Indiana Central's Charlie they could never get off a really cause. Jordan was last Saturday's top accurate shot. Blackburn scored There arc four games remain­scorer with four touchdown on a desperation shot at the end ing on the Booters schedule and passes, also the best single game of tpe first • quarter and this if they hope for any type of suc­performance this year, but he turned out to be the lone score cess a sweep is paramount. Next has only 36 points, tying him 
of the afternoon. Maury Brie home game is Saturday against with five others for lOth played a stellar game as goalie Loyola. place. 


N D booters lose, tie 

Ruggers dump South's best 
Led by John Laino's points est single game scoring total of Rogers, Hurlehy, Bob Friese, the Notre Dame Rugby Club reg­the season for the ND ruggers. Ken Kern, and Bill Berry made it istered a 17-12 victory over an Gary Gleason and Tom Hughes difficult for Tulane to mount an experienced Tulane University each . tallied a try to complete offensive. squad Saturday in New Orleans. the Notre Dame scoring. The Notre Dame "B" team Tulane, the Irish ruggers third co'ntinued their winning ways re­victum in four starts, was ranked All of Tulane's points came cording their 48th win in their as the South's number one club on penalty kicks as Notre Dame last 50 matches, by drubbing the on the basis of several con­kept the Green Wave eleven bot­Fort Wayne Rugby Club, !8-3, vincing wins over local o pos­tled up in their, own territory in a match played Saturday be­ition, but were unable to handle most of the contest. An early hind Stepan Center. John Dostal the hard-nosed Irishmen. game pass interception by Tom kicked two conversions and 
Laino booted three penalty Hurlehy pushed Tulane to the made good on a penalty kick to kicks and a conversion through Shadow of their goal and stal­pace the "B" offense with seven the uprights in posting the high-wart defensive play by Paul points. 

ND scoring & defensive statistics 
SCORING BY QUARTERS 

TEAM SCORING  NO  OPP  Notre Dame  38  52  42  55  187  
Total Points  187  80  Opponents  17  21  21  21  80  
Touchdowns by Rushing by Passing by Return Field Goals (Att-Made) Safeties PAT-Kick(Att-Made) PAT-Run PAT-Pass  26 17 8 1 4-2 0 26-25 0-0 0-0  11 7 4 0 3-1 0 11-11 0-0 0-0  Olson McCoy Kelly Schumacher Kadish Patulski Gasser  DEFENSIVE STATISTICS TM TL 83 7-69 63 7-26 48 1-8 45 3-27 42 5-26 33 3-8 31  PBU 5 1 1 2 7  FR 1 2  
Raterman  25  1  
INDIVIDUAL SCORING  Ellis Stepaniak  22 22  7 6  
Barz Hempel Gatewood Ziegler Allan Huff Theismann Lewallen Yoder Notre Dame Opponents  TO's 7 4 4 3 3 3 1 1 26 11  Kick 26-25 26-25 11-11  Play  FG 4-2 0-0 0-0  TP 42 31 24 24 18 18 18 6 6 187 80  Swendsen Neidert Zikas Wright Patton Lewallen Thomann Mike Eckman Reid Nash Hempel Merlitti Offense  19 16 13 10 8 7 6 3 3 2 2 1  2-4 1-7 1-10 1·9 1-4  1 2  (1) 4  

ving plunged over for the score. first half but Dillon hung on to 
Once again Garagiola's kick was prevent any scoring. In the 
perfect as Keenan looked good second half both teams went to 
with a 14-0 victory. the airways, but once again there 
Off Campus 18 -Alumni 6 was no scoring. 
Powerful Off Campus scored Grace-St. Ed's 23-Stanford 6
first on a 9-yard run by Dan Early in the game ChrisValentino. The TD was set up O'Leary forced his way overwhen Alumni fumbled on its from the one to give Grace-St.
own 25 and Off Campus recover· Ed's a 6-0 lead. Jim Griffened. The second TD of the half passed to O'Leary for the twocame when Bill Hasbrook skirted point conversion. Stanford nar­right end from six yards out to 
give Off Campus a 12-0 halftime rowed the gap to 8-6 as Jim 
lead. In the second half Alumni McCaughan scampered around 
fou_ght back behind some great left end on his way to a 40-yard 
scrambi1ng by QB Jack Wiethoff. TD run. The second half was all 
Wiethoff fired 28 yards to end Griffen as Grace-St. Ed's broke 
Bob Singleton who carried the the game open. Griffen rolled 
ball to he Off Campus 3. From left and carried the ball 66 yards 
there Bill Niezer slanted over for for a TD. Griffen came right 
the score. With the momentum back and intercepted a Stanford 
having suddenly shifted to pass to set up O'Leary's second 
Alumni, Off Campus exhibited TD from the one. Tom Cullen 
real poise as they marched down kicked the conversion. Griffen 
field and scored on a 6-yard had yet a~other interception late 
swing pass, Hasbrook to Valen­in the game. A few of the Stan­
tino, to clinch the game. ford players conducted them­
Dillon 0 -Sorin 0 selves pitifully toward the offi­
Sorin looked tough in the cials as the game ended. 
Standings: Section A Section B League I w L T League III w L T Holy Cross 2 0 0 Zahm I 0 0 Pangborn I 0 0 Cavanaugh 1 I 0 Lyons 0 I 0 Farley I I 0 Morrissey 0 2 0 Breen-Phillips 0 I 0 
League II w L T League IV \V L T Off Campus 3 0 0 Grace-St. Ed's 2 0 I 
Dillon I 1 I Keenan 2 0 1 Alumni 0 l I Stanford I 1 0 ()
Sorin 0 1 1 Flanner 0 2 ()
Walsh 0 1 l Carroll 0 2 

CC squad suffers shut -out 
The Indiana Hoosiers buried finisher for the Irish and he just the Irish harriers over the week­edged Indiana's Jim Press at the end as they dominated the dual tape for ninth place. Individual meet on the Burke Memorial winner was Bob Legge who was Golf Course. The final tally clocked in 24 minutes, 36.6 se­showed the Irish on the short conds. end of a 15-50 count. The boys This was the second defeat in from Bloomington captured nine an many meets for the Irish who out of the first ten spots to will face Michigan State in their clinch the victory. next meet. State has already 
Bob Watson was the highest beaten I.U. this season. 


Irish placekicker Scott Hempel finally missed an extra point afte1 30 straight, establishing a school record. Apparently unimpressed by the actions of Hempel and his teammates, the Associated Press left the Irish in 12th place in their weekly grid poll. 





