

VOL. Ill, No. 92 Servin!; the Noire Dame and St. Mary's College Community ·Tu.:;::.ut\ Y, ;,\ARC'H 4, 1~~~ ·~~~---------------------------­
SLC passes hall life bill; Awaits TM H decision 
by Phil Bosco housing."' 

Last night the Student Life 4) "Continuing evaluation of Council, during a two and a half hall life and the formation of hour meeting, passed three reso­r e c o 111 m e n d a I ion s ... f q r lutions: role of the rector, drink­improving the quality of hall ing on campus, and parietal life." hours. The second resolution, that of 
The first resolution states that drinking on campus, was passed 
the rector. together with the by a vote of 22 to 2. It states 
assistant rector and student that "No student may buy or 
prefects, shall be responsible for se II a lcolholic beverages on 
" ... the spiritual, intellectual, campus. Further, the usc or 
social and physical welfare of presence of alcoholic beverages 
the hall." The rector shall also is forbidden in all public places 
advi~e the Hall Council "con­on campus." 
cerning standards to be observed The resolution goes on to 
for lhl' good order of the remind all students of the 
hall. .. (and) shall have the provisions in Indiana State Law 
authority to act indcpl'ndcntly which states that "No alcoholic 
to preserve hall welfare, when beverages shall be sold, bartered, 
urgencies so require." exchanged, given, provided or 
The Council also recommends furnished, to any person under 
the creation of an Office for the age of twenty-one years ... " 
Student Residence which will be In effect, this resolution says 
under the Vice President for that only students over the age 
Student Affairs. The Director of twenty-one may drink on 
this office will: campus, and then only in their 

I) Establish " ... programs to rooms or other "private" places. ensure high professional The third resolution, standards for rectors, prefects concerning parietal hours, was and other hall personnel." passed by a vote of 20 to 4. It 
2) Work with Hall Councils reads as follows: " ... to ensure reasonable "Envisaging the remodeling uniformity of their activities and program to provide parlors and to provide information and suites for residence halls, the other assistance for the effective Student Life Council opera! ion of these Councils*." recommends extention of 
3) Establish " ...equitable existing specia I weekend procedure for the admission of visitation privileges in residence students to residence halls, and halls on an experimental basis to for approval of off-campus all weekends with the following 
Senate asks for co-eds 
The Student Senate met last with the Student Life Council. night in the Student Amphi­The second motion was intro­theatre of LaFortune and passed duced by Senator Bob Arnot. three motions concerning co­The motion stated "that any and education, the establishment of all candidate~ whose total cam­girl cheerleaders, and campaign paign expenditures is in excess expenses for the Student Body of an arbitrary $10 over the set Presidential election. A fourth limit shall be immediately and motion, concerning a raise in the unequivocally disqualified." campaign expenses was with­After minor debates, the motion drawn by its sponsor. was passed by voice. 
The third motion, presentedThl' first motion was present­by St>nator David J<,nes, wased hy Senators Mike Kendall, concerned with the incorpora­John Koch, and Steve Ahern. 

tion of three girl cheer leadersThl' declaration of the motion from Saint Mary's with those ofstall'd that "Since the adminis­Notre Dame. This bill containstration and lay board of trustees two major stipulations, "the girlseffectually control what limited will be chosen, after tryouts, hymen-women rclat io nsh ips do the Notre Dame cheerleaders ex­exist at this University, thl' Uni­clusively; and the girls will notversity denies the end to which be eligible for Notre Dameit is singularly dedicated, the 

monograms. This motion

education of a person of moral passed with a I 7 to II margin.
spirit and action." The motion 
The fourth motion, which was then stated that its presenters 
introduced by both Senators therefore mandate the U niversi­
William Kurtz and Richard ty to establish itself as a co­Hunter dealing with the raising educational institution. of the campaign expenses for 
With the passage of this mo­Student Body Presidential elect­tion, the senate will now send ions, was withdrawn. copies of it to both the President 
Richard Hunter, alter an­of the University and the Lay nouncing that members would Board of Trustees. The bill will 
receive notices through the mail also he studied furl her by the 
stating the particulars of the Student Life Committee, of the next meeting, adjourned the Student Senate, in conjunction Senate. 
No 5:30 dead Iine 
St. Mary's Student Affairs Committee voted yesterday to do away with the 5:30 a.m. deadline for sign-in. Students signing out past the dorm closing hours will now usc the over night cards, fill in the date and time they expect to be in, and indicate .either a phone number or a name and address where they can be located. 
guidelines: 
a) The Hall Council shall set the following hours, not to exceed 24 hours, between the hours of 5:00 PM Friday and 
7:00 PM Sunday, with no visitation hours before noon or beyond I:00 AM on any day. 
b) 
The Hall Council shall establish procedures whereby each resident and his guest(s) shall be required to sign in when entering and sign out when leav­ing the residence hall. The resi­dent shall be responsible for the conduct of his guest(s). 

c) 
The staff Hall Council and students in each hall shall be responsible for enforcing the above policies. Any individual violations should be brought before the Hall Judicial Board for appropriate action ... Upon reasonable evidence of general noncompliance with the above policies, the Hall Life Board shall have the authority to sus­pend the visitation privileges of a hall. During such period of sus­pension, individual violations within that hall will be treated as violations of University, rather 


than hall, regulations. The entire experiment should be subject to review by the Student Life Council at its final meeting for this semester." 
This series of four resolutions (the first was passed at last week's SLC meeting and it dictated the creation of consti­tutions for each hall), was summed up by the following: 
"It should be made clear that each student must be responsible for not only obeying all Univer­sity and hall regulations, but also 
(continued on page 2) 

'<:an eel annual ROTC Presidential Review 
Col. John Lavin, head of the decision to cancel the reviewArmy ROTC at Notre Dame, ultimately rested with someone 
confirmed the rumored 
in the ad ministration. 
cancellation of the annual 
When asked if the Review wasPresidential review. 
cancelled this year because ofIn an interview last Friday, fear that there might be aCol. Lavin explained that due to 
confrontation with anti-war
changes in curriculum ROTC 
demonstrators, Col Abbott
drills did not begin this year replied "No comment. I justafter Christmas break as they don't know. The decision wasn't have in the past years. The Army made here." 
ROTC group doesn't expect to None of the Administrationbegin drilling until mid or late 
officials questioned knew
March. This will not give the anything .about the cancellation combined ROTC units of the Air of the President's review. Mr. 
Force, Navy, and Army time to 
Facccnda, Fr. Joyce and Fr. co-ordinate their drilling. 
M cCarragher's secretary stated Col. Lavin stated that 
that they did not even know the "Seniors run our leadership labs. 
Review would be cancelled. Fr. They hand in their schedule 
llesburgh's secretary said that suggestions for approval and "usually one of the commanding then proceeded from there. 
officers contacts us about it and Since there is no academic credit I haven't heard from any of for the drills, they recommended them. that because of lousy weather no Maj. Terry Turner of Navy drills be held. We'll make up for ROTC stated that the "Review it by slightly longer drill periods 
.requires a considerable amount this Spring." 
of time and effort. About three 
The co-ordination of the or four months of preparation Presidential review works o~ a are needed. Too, there are other triangular basis, divided among commitments involved here. We the three ROTC contingents at have had to spend a great deal of Notre Dame. The Army takes time on curriculum revision this charge one year; the Navy the year. next; and the Air Force the third "We're also short of officers year. The co-ordinator this year this year. So for those reasons it was to have been the Air Force. seems pretty definite that the 
Col. ·Victor Ferrari, ROTC review will not be commander of Air Force ROTC scheduled this year. It's not a was unavailable for comment. matter of cancellation and it However, his second in doesn't suggest that the review command, Lt. Col. John K. won't be scheduled for next Abbott stated that he believed year." 

The New Democratic Coali­tion, a political party claiming to have as its supporters former Eugene McCarthy and Robert Kennedy people, issued a state­ment yesterday in which it ex­pressly condemned Father Hes­burgh's heralded statement on student dissent. 
Former McCarthy supporter Samuel Brown drew up the doc­ument, unanimously approved, in Washington, D.C. The state­ment says there is "a growing movement in this country for the repression of dissent." It goes on to exemplify Hesburgh as an advocate of this type of repression: "Probably the most obvious example of this trend is the recent letter from President Heshurgh of Notre Dame which unjustifiably disregards the de­mands for procedural and sub­stantive due process which should be available to any citi­zen accused of illegal behavior and substitutes authoritarian non-appealabil' judgment by a single person." 

In addition to the criticism of the university president, the statement dissapproved "any in­vestigation by any branch of the government into the political be­liefs of dissidents." 
In a telephone interview with the OBSHR VHR, NDC Indiana chairman Dr. Robert Toal reiter­ated the statement in that its goal is to promote the due pro­
(~ontlnucd on page 2) 

7HE OBSERVER TUESDAY, MARCH 4, 1969.
AGE 2 

McGrath names Ed. Dept. head
Appeals procedures 

Sister Rita Mcrcille C.S.C., has of Indiana University and recei-has traveled throughout the been named chairman of the ved her doctorate in educational nation as part of a travelling
Receive final draft 

department of undergraduate psychology from Fordham Uni-workshop on intergroup rela­

The Tripartite Appeals Board 

recently completed a final draft 
of the procedure for student 
appeal within that body. 
The Board's three members, appointed by a subcommittee of .the Student Life Council, consist of student Joseph Rust, faculty member Professor Leo O'Brien, and cleric Father James Flanigan. The Appeals Board is not a trial board, but an alternative for those students who have gone through previous university judicial processes and who wish to appeal the decision. According to the Tripartite l3oard, the student who wants to make an appeal must file a notice to the Dean of Student's office "by the end of the second school day, i.e., 5:00 p.m. after notification of a disciplinary decision by the Dean of Students." The student is then 
required to go to the office with 
an outline of thos~ points of his 
appeal he wishes to cover. 
Action will not be delayed, as 
the board will prepare for an 
immediate hearing. 
In reference to its limitations, the board maintains it connot go over the appealed case anew, but that it must refer to previous judicial proceedings: "The Tripartite Appeals Board will not consider the case de novo. The defense counsel will proceed on the record of the previo•us trial or trials..." 
The board will make its decision within one day after the actual appeal proceedings have terminated. The. board's action will be a recommendation to the Dean of Students on the disciplinary course to take. Father Riehle, however, is not bound by the board's decision. 
education at Saint Mary's Col­lege, President Rt. Rev. Msgr. John 1. McGrath announced Friday. 
Sister Mercille will assume the post March I5. She replaces Sister M. Margarette, C.S.C., who will continue to teach m the education department. 
Msgr. McGrath said that in addition to her duties as a dep­artment chairman, Sister Mercille will begin discussions with officials from the Univer­sity of Notre Dame on imple­menting Saint Mary's role as part of the Notre Dame Institute for Studies in Education. 
Plans announced recently by Notre Dame officials call for Saint Mary's undergraduate education department to become one of eight compon­ents of the Institute. 
Under the program of inter­

versity, N.Y. She has been a tions sponsored by the National member of education and Catholic Conference for lnter­psychology departments at Saint racial Justice. Mary's since I964. Sister Mercille was a consul-
A member of the Urban tant to the Job Corps Center at League, United Negro College Camp Atterbury, Ind. in 1966, Fund, Neighborhood Study Help and has directed many area Program and Ecumenical Com-workshops in group dynamics. mission of South Bend, Ind .. she 
Alumni Seminar held 
"Catholic Education: the End whose doctoral thesis at or the Beginning?" is the theme Princeton dealt with a of the 1969 Notre Dame Alumni cost-benefit analysis of Seminar which will be held the elementary and secondary first week in March in five major parochial education, will speak cities, under the co-sponsorship on "Efficiency and Equity in the of Notre Dame alumni groups Economics of Education." and the University's Center for The traveling seminar opens Continuing Education. Sunday (March 2) in 
The seminar will feature two Indianapolis, with other experts in Catholic education, programs scheduled in the Rev. Neil McCluskey, S.J., Washington, D.C., Philadelphia, dean-director of the Institute for New York City, and Boston. 
institutional cooperation, the Studies in Education, and the chairman of the Saint Mary's Rev. Ernest Bartell, C.S.C., Graduate assts.
' Ticket distribution for the presentation and 
department of undergraduatc chairman of the department of address of the Senior Class Fellow Senator Eugene 
education would become head economics. 

Criticize article 
of the Institute's undergraduate Father McCluskey, whose A spokesman for the group of 
J. McCarthy. 

program in teacher education most recent book, Catholic
Tues., Wed., & Thurs. 

and would direct the program Education Faces Its Future, is graduate teaching assistants circulating a petition requesting
for both schools. just off the presses, will discuss greater privileges and more pay
Dining Halls 

Sister Mercille, a native of the nature of religious5:30-6:30 for working assistants issued aBloomington, Ind., is a graduate education, and Father Bartell, 
statement to the OBSHR VER yesterday criticizing a Monday
Council passes hall life 
OBSERVER article about their 
movement. main concern during the meet­Their statement listed three 
(continued from page 1) 
for enforcing the regulations a­

ing. bases for contention: 
. mong Q.is fellow students. It is 

These resolutions, though I. "The case involving Mr.
Your new 
the particular responsibility of 

passed by the Student Life Resch of the Theology
the hall staff to enforce the 

Council, are not yet University Department is absolutely
University and hall regulations if 

policy. They have to be submit­irrelevant to the present T.A.
and when the students fail to 

ted to Father Hesburgh for his petition and in no way acted as a
boyfriend has a 
report violations which occur 

approval. It is believed that the catalyst for that movement.
within the hall." 

President will pass the resolutions 2. "We are in fact asking for a
This was added to emphasize 

on to the Board of Trustees for raise of $700 per semester over
the question of waning "student 

their opinion. the base pay of $2100.
new girlfriend? 
responsibility" that was the 

Father Hesburgh could not be 3. "The statements and/or reached for comment last night. actions attributed to Father Next week the Student Life Biechner and to Professor 
ZORBA THE GREEK 

Council will take up the issue of Robinson were not in fact made the "squelching" of the maga­by those men and should have
Tues. Engineering Auditorium 

zine Vaciline by Father Edmund been verified through them
7: IS and 9:30 

Joyce, Vice President of Notre personally." · Dame. 
Rap letter 
(continued from page 1)
"And on the Down Elevator for the month of March
Think it ovelj over coffee. 

cess of law in face of the hyster­
are people under 30 whom you can't trust ... " 
ia of student violence. -Eye Magazine 
Toal went on to say Hesburgh March, 1969 
was openly pointed to because he is an especially news-worthy item. "I think Father Hesburgh's
Listen to two people you can trust. Ed McCartin and 
statement was basically sound"
Jack Fiala will begin their campaign at 9:05 p.m. on 
said Toal. 
WSND-AM 

He added that the NDC was only criticizing Hesburgh, and that the party was not "attack­ing" him. 
SECOND TICKET SALES for JUNIOR PARENTS-SON WEEKEND 
Wll.l. BE HEI.D WED. MARCH 5, 
7:30-9:00 

in the FIESTA LOUNGE of the STUDENT CENTER 
-CHECK PAYMENT PREFERRED ­



TUESDAY, MARCH 4, 1969 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 
·······················The Ma i/·····················
·THE WORLD TODAY 
Hesburgh: Judge university as it is 
NEW YORK (UPI) Universities should not be judged only by 
the unrest permeating them today, the Rev. Theodore llesburgh, 
president of Notre Dame, said yesterday. 
"It seems to me that the university should be judged by what it 
really is, not what it appears to be," llcsburgh said. 
"A very, very small minority of faculty and students seem to get 
about 99 percent of the exposure on university life whereas the great 
majority, the great, great majority, arc some of the best and well 
informed, well dcdil.:atcd people who really want to change the 
world for the better." 
Hesburgh, appearing on the NBC television show "First Tuesday" 
taped for showing tonight, repeated his position that students who 
persist in disrupting university life should be expelled. 
"All I was really saying is that anyone or any group who wanted 
to substitute violence for rational persuasion or mob action for 
civility should be informed that they arc not understanding what a 
university is all about," llcsburgh said. 
The university should, he said, bring "calm and rationality and 
analysis and dedication and cornpctcncc to the great problcms.wc 
face in the world." 
Apollo 9 astronauts dock landing craft 
SPACE CENTER, Houston (UPI) -The Apollo 9 astronauts linked up in space yesterday with a fragile lunar landing craft to start a l 0 day test of'lhe machines needed to land men on the moon. 
Within three hours after their ll a.m. EST launch from Cape Kennedy, the spacemen docked their Apollo with its lunar lander for the first space test of the strange looking craft that is scheduled to lam! two Americans on the moon this summer. 
They finished their first day activities at 5 p.m. EST by firing the main engine of Apollo 9 for five seconds to raise the orbit of the still linked spaceships. Activitcs ended early so they could get a good night's sleep. 
Ocspitc the successful docking and engine firing, the astronauts encountered continuing minor troubles with their cq uipmcnt. 
The launch itself went almost perfectly, however, as the men, fully recovered from their colds that caused a three clay delay, rode a Saturn 5 rocket into earth orbit. 
Supreme Court rules on election laws 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-The Supreme Court ruled yesterday that 
~tates covered by the 1965 voting rights act may not change their 
.:lcction laws "in even a minor way" without approval by federal 
authorities. 
The test came in three Mississippi cases and one from Virginia. Both states arc subject to the law, which removed many voting 
Myopic re.-.ponse 
Ectilor: 
The myopic fawf!y response to recent campus events, which Mr. Mario Corradi described so well in last Thursday's OBSHR­VHR, is unfortunately well illus­trated in Mr. Frederick Crosson's criticism of an earlier letter hy Mr. J o scph Duffy of the Department of English. Mr. Crosson's analysis, I speak charitably, implies that my colleague wrote a generalized attack on the police, the ad ministration, and the forces of evil, an attack in which the violent demonstrators became the good guys and the police, of course, the bad. But the substance of Mr. Duffy's letter praised and defended the role played by Mr. Peter Michelson and Mr. John Matthias in restraining violence and cooling tempers during the famous pronography-conference weekend. Since Mr. Duffy's letter first appeared, national television, assisted by the President of this university, has alleged that Mr. Michelson incited and led the disturbance. Although distinguished members of the faculty have risen to denounce attacks on Father llesburgh, neither they nor Mr. 
Crosson says a word about this damaging, unfounded allegation directed against a member of the university faculty. Mr. Crosson's major aim is to be witty, in the tritest possible way, by reminding us that Mr. Duffy is a specialist in fiction and, consequently, lives in an imaginary world of his own. 
But the same Joseph Duffy whom he attacks in his snotty letter was a nationally prominent critic of the war in Vietnam long before that criticism became a ·national or 

academic fashion. In Novcmhcr 1965 the same Joseph Duffy addressed one of the first national rallies against the war in Washington, D.C. And that same Joseph Ouffy, and members of his family, have been harflassed precisely because he left his world of fiction and possibly because, like many people in the arts, he is very sensitive to human questions. However fashionable even discussion of the war became, it was never so popular that Mr. Crosson felt impelled to join the chorus. Poets have a curious habit of showing up on picket lines much oftener than administrators. 
The facile reduction of Mr. Crosson's letter to a good-guy versus bad-guy issue characterizes much of the faculty response to Donald Hynes' column. Hysterical and intcrmperate it was, and amusing to see a young man, who voluntarily chose an all-male university and who is himself celibate-permanently or temporarily or at least occasionally-, express his displeasure at other people's celibacy. But Donald Bynes said other things in his column. lie charged that Father Hesburgh is carefully shielded from the direct criticism of his faculty. I would hardly regard his annual, autumnal lectures to the university f~.tculty as a confrontation, let alone a meeting of minds. Donald Hynes charged that the Ocan of Students is, in practice, unsympathetic to 
demonstrators. If he struck one, as Hynes alleges, perhaps the charge should be examined. Perhaps the Dean of Students should inform the foul-mouthed intimidation is inconsistent with what an open, free university should be. Oonald llynes als~> alleges that Father Hcsburgh's highly touted personal, lengthy study of the politics of confrontation, at least in its verbal form in his letter, is merely an unacknowledged summary of an article by John 
bystanders  at  the  ROTC  
demonstration  that  their  
vulgarity,  filth,  and  l'erbal  

R. Searle in the 29 Occember 1968 New York Times Magazine. The similarities in structure, phrasing, emphasis, and logic are so striking that I now well understand why Father llesburgh does so much of his work in "the wee hours" of the night. 
A serious issue confronts the university, yet administrators, faculty, and students arc responding in panic. Ironically, the tempered, measured, and intelligently qualified responses are coming from the student publications, not from ad min is t rat o rs or teachers. l'erhaps all of us might heed the 
_students' rcq uest for a serious, thoughtful examination of what the university community is and to what extent its alliances with government, business, and the military arc as much out of keeping with the nature of a university as violence itself is. The university community has serious questions to ask itself. At this campus, not even the promise of serious discussion has been made, even though it has been requested through those highly ad vertiscd legitimate channels. To place the burden of guilt for campus unrest solely on the d istuptivc demonstrators strikes me as somewhat com­parable to telling the black man to go back to his ghetto and stop disturbing the peace and quiet of a healthy community. 
Thomas Jemielity Assistant Professor of English 

n1atters fron1 control of states with a record ofrac~ldiscrin1ination. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Once under the umbrella of the law, these states may not change voting practices or voter qualifications without submitting the revision either to the U.S. attorney general or to a federal district court in the Oistrict of Columbia. 

Should you drink beer
The states had argued that the section covers only state laws dealing with who may register to vote. But Warren said the act "was aimed at the subtle, as well as the obvious state regulations which have !Ill' effect of denying citizens their right to vote because of 
their race." 

straight from the bottle? 
Ulbricht refuses German compromise 
BERLIN (UPI) East German President Walter Ulbricht dismissed Western conditions for moving the West German 

If you're on a blanket party of trouble and expense to let
presidential election out of West Berlin as "simply ridiculous" yesterday, apparently slamming the door shut on any last minute 

or something, carrying along a Budweiser create its own bub­
compromise. 

glass is pretty clumsy. But bles with the natural carbona­
Even before Ulbricht spoke, the Communists made good their threats to tighten the sq uecze on the divided city. Jet fighters 

when it's convenient, we think tion of Beechwood Ageing. So 
buzzed its air corridors yesterday and Soviet troop convoys cut across a highway to block a U.S. Army caravan for one hour. 

it's a shame not to use one. you really can't blame us for 
Wary West Berliners began stockpiling staple food goods, drawing 

Keeping Budweiser wanting you to get it at its
a rebuke from one newspaper for displaying "unfounded fear" of the "Communist war of nerves." 

inside the bottle or best, can you?
The official East German news agency ADN quoted Ulbricht as saying that if the West Germans hold their election in Berlin 

can is missing half Just for fun, pour your 
Wednesday "it means that West Germany is continuing the cold war 

the fun. next four or five bot­
against East Germany." Ulbricht, who spoke to Soviet delegates to the Leipzig trade fair, 

Those tiny bubbles tles of Bud® into a 
said East Germany was prepared only to allow West Berliners to pass through the Berlin Wall for visits during the Easter holidays as its 

getting organized at the glass. If you don't 
concession. 

top of your glass have a lot agree that the extra to do with taste and aroma. taste, clarity and 
JUNIORS: 

Most beers have carbonation aroma make a big difference, pumped in mechanically. Not go back to the bottle. 
Last chance to make arrangements for your yearbook 

Budweiser. We go to a barrel We won't say another word.
photograph. Call 8129 or stop in room 2B of the Student Center between 9:30-4:00 to make an appointment. 

Budweise&is the King ofBeers.
YEARBOOK STAFF 

(But you know that.) 
The Observer Is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's 

ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS • NEWARK • LOS ANGELES • T.AMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 
4 5 

PAGE4 THE OBSERVER 
TUESDAY, MARCH 4, 1969 

That's right. Creighton 79, ND 74 

By TERRY SHIELDS 
Observer Sparts Writer 

The NCAA-bound Fighting Irish were dumped back into reality last night by a group of determined ballplayers from Creighton University. The Irish lost 7 9-7 4 and deservedly so because they were beaten at the fundamentals: foul shooting, ball handling, shooting and most of all "hustle." 
The Irish were caught flat footed from the opening tip and the Blue Jays bolted into an 8-0 lead. Captain Bob Arnzen and Bob Whitmore finally began to get hot and they managed to get the Irish a six point lead with I 0: 18 left in the half. However, Wally Anderzunas and Bob Portman also began to find the range for the visitors. The con­test remained nip and tuck throughout the remainder of the half with a final burst from Creighton supplying them with a 35-31 halftime lead. 
CREIGHTON 
PLAYER  FG  FT  RB  TP  
Portman  7-21  6-10  10  20  
Anderzunas 12-29 4-4  11  28  
Jansa  1-2  0-0  5  2  
Hickey  4-9  2-3  4  10  
llcisin  2-3  0-1  1  4  
Ketterer  0-0  0-0  0  0  
Caruso  0-1  8-8  4  8  
Bergman  3-5  1-1  8  7  
Totals  29-70 21-27 47  79  

Poor shooting during the first stanza plagued ND. At the mid­point they were shooting a meager 35% from the field and a less than mediocre 5 of I 0 from the charity line. Creighton shot only average (42%) from the field but their ability to move the ball through the man for man defense of the Irish proved to be the difference from the turnover stand point. 
The second half began much like the first and by 13:23 the Jays held a ten point edge. Coach Dee then began to utilize his bench. His strategy of out­sizing the men from Omaha worked as the Irish managed to tie the score at 58 with the help of some aggressive offensive re­bounding on the part of Collis Jones. With 7:48 left Dee sent his starting lineup of Arnzen, 
NOTRE DAME 
PLAYER  FG  FT  RB  TP  
Arnzen  4-16  3-5  12  11  
Whitmore  6-13  6-13  13  18  
Murphy  5-10  3-7  7  13  
Carr  7-20  2-3  5  16  
Meehan  2-6  0-0  4  4  
Jones  3-7  0-0  5  6  
Pleick  0-0  0-0  0  0  
O'Connell  2-3  0-0  2  4  
Catlett  0-0  0-0  0  0  
Quinn  0-1  0-0  3  0  
Gallagher  1-1  0-0  2  
Derrig  0-1  0-0  1  0  
Totals  30-78 14-28 59  74  


September 28, 1968. College foot­balL Notre Dame versus Oklahoma. Middle of the fourth period. Big lead for the home team. The second unit Irish defense is seeing its first action of the year. 
First and I 0 at the Sooner 26. Power sweep. Aimed at Notre Dame left end Tony Capers. Oklahoma full­back Steve Owens misses his block on T.C., scrambles a few yards along the ground, then tries to leg-whip him. 
Owens' cleats catch Capers behind his right ankle. Like a guitar string sanpping from excess pressure, Capers' Achilles tendon goes, "twang." 
His 1968 football season ended after one scrimmage play, Capers was forced to make news some other way. He did that very well. 
Tony Capers is Notre Dame's most controversial athlete-black, white or chartreuse. And, save Don Hynes, he may be the University's most contro­versial student. 
He also is more completely black than any Notre Dame athlete ever has been. "They say that only a certain type of Negro comes to Notre Dame," says Capers. "Well, if that's true, it sure blew up in their faces when they got me." 
Capers lived the first seven years of his life in Mississippi, before moving to Eastern Ohio. His father had a good job at neither place. There were three children. Some meals they didn't all eat. During junior high school, some­one stabbed Capers in the back and nearly killed him. It was all part of the ghetto. 
And now it is all part of Tony Capers' make-up. He describes it this way: 
"There's no other black athlete here who's been through the environmental situations I've been through. It's part of me. You can't erase it. The rest of these guys lived nearly middle-class. They're not outspoken enough. They're all afraid of what might hap­pen, of what the man might say. They have to get B's and play ball and get through school. 
"It's not like that with me. If I deserve an F, I'll get it and that's the way I want it." 
, There's something else Tony wants-a black football coach. 
"We need more black of everything here, but especially a black football coach. It would relieve tension and there's a lot of tension out there. A black man could counsel us, tell us why we're playing a certain position and not somewhere else. 
"We do have a very good working relationship between black athletes and coaches now. But if you have a bad practice, you can't go to a white coach and say, 'Coach, my mind just wasn't' on football tdday_ I got a letter from my mother yesterday and she said my little, three-year-old brother doesn't have any shoes. We can't afford them.' You just can't say that to a white coach. He won't understand what you're talking about." · 
Capers' conversation on black topics is extremely intelligent. He freely quotes LeRoi Jones, Malcolm X and Elijah Muhammed. He advocates Black Power, as understood thus: "Black men doing things for themselves in a constructive manner." 
Within that definition there is room for "every man to do his thing to help the black cause," Tony says. I'm work­ing with the Urban League and the Negro Industrial Economic Union (which loans money interest-free to blacks and helps them establish busi­nesses). I have a speaking engagement later this month at a church down­town. I have my radio show (8-1 0 pm weekdays on WNDU) and next year I might be on television doing a sports show, too. 
"Everybody's got his bag. Mine's talking. Man, I could sit here and 'rap' for hours. I have a responsibility to make my people aware of their man­ness, their woman-ness, of their pride." 
Black pride. It is a relatively new concept. A few years ago, the soul radio stations were advertising hair straightener for $1.39. No..y it's Afro­wigs or "naturals" for $29.95. Five years ago, the songs were not "Black is beautiful" or "I'm black and I'm proud." 
Collis Jones explains, "Five years Whitmore, Meehan and Murphy The story of this game really somewhat, they ended with 38% back into the game along with lies in the statistics. Creighton fg and SO% free throws. Austin Carr who had remained finished by shooting 42% from Wally Anderzunas and Bob in the game. Nonetheless ND the field and a very good 78% Portman led Creighton with 27 never quite managed to regain from the foul line. The home and 2 0 points respectively. the lead. team improved their shooting

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIITIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.IIIIIII 

Sam hangs it up 

NEW YORK (UP!) -Sam Jones, putting in his last season with the Boston Celtics, says he worked for "a pair of dictators." 
What's more, he's glad of it. And what's even more than that, he's not so sure they haven't turned him into one. 
Red Auerbach, who used to coach the Celtics, and Bill Russell, who does now, are the two dictators and when Sam Jones calls them that he makes sure you know he's doing it affectionately. 
Since Sam Jones joined the Celtics 12 years ago, they've won 10 National Basketball Association titles and the one man most responsible for that, he says, is Auerbach, now executive vice-president and general manager of the team. 
"Coach Auerbach," says Jones, still using that designation from long habit, "had to handle 12 
Capers: embodiment of black pride 
By Terry O'Neil, Observer sports editor 

ago, the Negro felt he had to make himself equal to whites, that he had to be the same. Now, the blacks got their thing together." 
, Austin Carr: "It used to be that if you were from one street in a Negro section, you didn't go over to another street or you'd get cut up. Now when I go home, nobody says, 'Hey man, what street you from?' Everybody's together now." 
It is this black pride that Capers exudes like few others. He recalls, "It used to be 'Whitey's World' and a black man had to sell out his race if he wanted to be a part of it. I'm not bitter toward the white man and I don't advocate militant tactics for blacks. I walk around this campus with my head up 'cause I'm proud to be black. I know that's controversial, but I don't mind. There's something wrong if everybody likes you. If somebody wants to call me a 'black bastard' because of my beliefs, that's okay. But they better not say it to my face." 
minutes and then I have to come outta the game. 
Years ago I could go nine minutes." When Sam Jones leaves the Celtics, they will be little poorer off without him even though he 
doesn't pretend to be the Sam Jones of five years ago. He has done some great things on the court and some even greater things off it. Like digging into his own pocket and coming up with $1,200 so that Jimmy Walker, now with the Detroit Pistons, could attend a decent prep school. 

Sam Jones never told about that deed in the first place and it even embarrasses him now when someone talks about it. 
He'd much rather talk about his time with the Celtics. 
"I feel I've had a wonderful 12 years with them," he says. "I've been on I 0 championship teams and I feel a little sorry for those who have never been on even one. Take the Baylors and the Robinsons. They never had the chance I had.'' 
You have to say one thing about Sam Jones. He made the most of his chance. Not bad for a guy who was being yelled at all the time. 
A trainer examines Capers mo­ments after his Achilles tendon had been severed in the season's first game against Oklahoma. 
different personalities and no one did it better. He was a dictator but what he said went and we never had any dissension." 
Russell, in his third season as coach of the Celtics and still playing, is a great deal like Auerbach, according to Jones, yet different. 
"Both have the same type dedication," says the Celtics' veteran backcourt man, "but use different approaches. Bill understands his ballplayers completely. There are some you can holler at and some you have to talk low to. He knows which is which." 
"How does Bill Russell talk to you? " a guy interrupted and asked Sam Jones. 
"Loud and mean," laughed Jones. ''I'm one of the players he can holler at. We're very good friends and he's been very helpful to me over the years." 
When this season is over,· the articulate, 35-year-old Jones will say goodbye to pro ball and get some taste of what Auerbach and Russell have put up with when he takes over as head basketball coach and athletic director at Federal City College in Washington, D.C. Speaking of that, he laughs some more and says: 
"We, the Celtics, hate Red and Bill at times ~nd now I guess the kids will hate me.'' 
Sam Jones doesri't laugh though when he says he believes the Celtics can still go on to their II th NBA championship even though they're languishing in fourth place in the league's eastern 
division and haven't finished  this far back in the  
past I 5 years.  
"I  still  think  we  have  a  chance  to  win  the  

championship," he says. "Remember when we were down to Philadelphia, three games to one, in last year's playoffs? We came back to win. I think we can do it again. We may get lucky." 
Okay, then what's been holding Boston back? What's the problem? "I don't think we have any great problem," says Jones. 
"It's just that our bench isn't as strong as it used to be. We lost Wayne Embry in expansion and it hurts. He was a fine back-up man for Bill Russell. He'd give Bill a rest. The man has gotta be a little tired. I'm talking about Bill Russell. He had a birthday this month and turned 35. I don't have to watch him to know how he feels. All I have to do is ask Sam Jones. I'll be 36 in June so I know how Bill Russell feels. He's a fellow who generally plays 48 minutes. If I go all out, I can go a good six 


