



VOL. IV, No. Servin the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1969 
lCPA plans to pickett GE interviews 
by Jim Holsinger tion is presently involved in a When the university officials such a situation it is inconsistent ment for highly skilled workers, contract settlement dispute with refused to cancel the interviews, with the rhetoric of the Univer­a cost-of-living clause, and other the International Union of Elec­CPA planned the picketing. sity's 'neutrality' and 'impartial­benefits. General Electric has
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's 
trical Workers (IUE). In a letter CPA claims that the U niver­ity' for the Administration to offered a three year contractCoalition for Political Action sent last Tuesday to Rev. Theo­sity is supporting management in continue to side with the corpor­with a 25 cent an hour wage in­(CPA) plans to picket the Notre dore M. Hesburgh C.S.C.; presi­the contract dispute by allowing ation in sponsoring its continued crease, with added increases ofDame Placement Bureau on No­dent of the University of Notre the interviews. operation..." reads the CPA's from 5 to 25 cents for highlyvember II to protest campus Dame, the CPA demanded that "In such a struggle the work­statement. skilled workers, and other con­recruiting interviews by repre­
the employment interviews with ers' contention is that the cor­Rev. Louis J. Thornton, direc­siderations.
sentatives of the General Electric 
General Electric not be held poration's operations should be tor of the Notre Dame Place­However, the United StatesCorporation. 
while the strike remains in ef­stopped, while the owners ment Bureau, told the CPA that Court of Appeals in New YorkThe General Electric Corpora-
attempt to maintain activity. In
fect. the interviews will be conducted. on October 28 found General Thornton met with Phil Fleming Electric in violation of the Na­of the CPA on Thursday after­tional Labor Relations Act by noon. refusing to bargain "in good
Hitsman decries Nixon plan 
"In our discussion, we agreed faith." In the action General. that the students have the right Electric's approach was
by Buz Craven 
to dissent, and that other stu­cribed as "take it or leave it." Asia expert Dr. Roger dents have the right to assent," 
"I don't think they (G E) 
Hilsman attempted to solve the said Thornton. 
should use our facilities to sup­
puzzle of Asia for an Thornton explained that it is port a system that the Supreme
overflowing audienct· in the the work of the Placement Court has ruled unfair," saidlibrary auditorium last night. Bureau to make it possible for Student Body President PhilH ilsman, a professor of studt.mts to obtain interviews, McKenna, who also signed thegovernment at Columbia and that since the Placement CPA statement.
University, turned his excellent Bureau deals with over 500 lecturing talent on four employers it is impossible for CPA members are already subtopics: how Communist them to become involved with distributing leaflets at 7 major China figures into the future of each employer. factories tn South Bend, Asia, the role of nationalism in "More than I00 students including Bendix, Uniroyal, the emerging nations of South­signed to take interviews with Kaiser, and the O'Brien 
east Asia, the implications of the GE. Campus interviews were Corporation, asking workers to Viet Nam problem, and his opin­selected of their (the students') support the IUE strike. CPA ion of Presitknt Nixon's Mon­own choice," said Thornton. He plans to invite workers from the day speech and an alternative to further noted that the inter­South Bend area to take part in Nixon's course of action. viewing dates were set from 18 the November II protest by 
months to a year ago, and that meeting in discussion groups
llilsman began his discussion on Red China with a brief there was no knowledge of any with Notre Dame students. strike at that time. The November II
digression concerning Mao and Thirteen unions, led by the demonstration, which was
the "(;reat Proletariot Cultural IUE, are now striking against the described by CPA as "a
Revolution." He staled the cultural revolution was "Mao General Electric Corporation. non-violent educational protest" 
himself," in an attempt to have 
The unions, representing is to include leafleting on the continuous revolution. llilsman 
147,000 workers, are demanding Notre Dame campus, and the a 30 month contract including picketing of the Placementreveah.•d that he believed that 
the revolution developed into a higher wages, an added supple-Bureau. thret• way dispute among the Communist factions and 
Hayakawa is featured
eventually led to the end of Maoism. "Mao ism is finished," he told his student audience. 

at SMC Symposium
Dr. llilsman had several ideas about the future of Red China, a S.I. Hayakawa, President of _ Father John McGrath, Presi­notable one being that he San Francisco State College, will dent of St. Mary's, will officiallY 
expects this group to try to re­military base there, as was the
believes the Nationalist Chinese be the featured opening-night welcome the participants Friday
establish China's dominance, to situation in Korea, or unless
have no role in the future of the speaker at the "Language, afternoon, at I: 30 in Carroll
be hostile to the rest of the they are provoked by their
mainland. He commmented Symbol, Reality" symposium to Hall. The opening address will be
world, and to be typically Chin­neighbors, as in India in 1962.
"there is nothing more dead begin this Friday at St. Mary's. given by John Brademas, Third
ese in the caution they use in The second portion of
than a leader exiled 20 years." The symposium is sponsored District Indiana Congressmanusing military force. Hi!sman Hitsman's lecture dealt with the
llilsman theorized that the by the St. Mary's I25th Anniver­and a member of the St. Mary's
frustration of the Asian man.
faction which eventually gains sary Committee and is designed
reassured the audience that he Board of Trustees.
Here he compared the Asian's 
to introduce and integrate new
control of China will he a well does not think China will invade 
suffering under colonialism with 
ideas of symbols from people of
disciplined group dressed in the its neighbors unless the U.S. or those of the American black S.l. Hayakawa will speak as a 
quite diverse traditions and disci­
usual Marxist verbiage. He also the Soviets attempt to make a representative from the General
man. plines. 
Semantics discipline but the title of his speech is still unannounc­ed. His address will be at 8:30


High school students to attend Co~fere~ce 
p.m. Also speaking on friday . . , Kennedy Institute, Father 1-'eatured speakers w11l be: Dr. will be Mayer Schapiro of Co­
Close to 100 htgh school general well bemg ~f people. Chambers has been able to Chris Anderson, Department of lumbia University (2:00 p.m.),juniors and seniors will converge McDonough satd that the secure sufficient funds to Psychology "On Becoming a 
Paul David Crabb of Princeton 
on the Notre Dame campus for purpose of the Leadership finance the attendance of a Person " ~n Friday evening, University (4:00 p.m.) as dele­the third annual National Conference is twofold: to number of blacks, Mexican ·Novem'ber 14; Bon. John gates from art and anthropologyStudent Leadership Conference expose potential high school Americans, and Indians. Brademas, U.S. Representative respectively.
November 1 5-16. Director of the student leaders to university life McDonough hoped that this for Indiana on "The Cry for Karl Menninger, M.D., head of
('onfcren··e 1·s Rev. Thon1as " and to educate them in the art L d sh. ,'
~ L. will be the first step in a large, ea er 1p . 
the Menninger Foundation and('hallJbers C S C rector of of leadership.
· ·' · · ·• far reaching program for mi-
well-known psychiatrist, will be
Morrissey Hall. Procedure in recruiting high 
nority recruitment and finan-highlighted .speaker on Saturday.
The Kennedy Institute, a school students consisted of cial aid to be established in the His talk on "Words as Weapons"
University organization formed corresponding with over 4800 near future. The major an­will he held at II :00 a.m. Other
last spring, will assist Father private and public high srhools nouncement on this is expect­Saturday speakers include Mi­Chambers with the financing and across the country. In most ed within two weeks. 
chael Butor (9:00 a.m.), Paulcoordinating of the event. John cases, the studcnt and the high 
Student Chairman Mroz, Ricoeur (2:30p.m.), and Roman
Mroz, Chairman of the Kcnnedy school he represents will share 
Jakobson (4:30p.m.)
assisted by former stay-senator, Rich Jluntl'T, has set up an Sunday activities will feature.
Institute, will serve as Student the expenses of the Conference. 
Chairman ot the Confcrencc. However, " number of the the summation speech at 9:30 ofPat McDonough, Director of applicants <.trc of an extensive program for the all of the symposium's adivities
Public Rel<.ttions for the underprivilcgt•d minority class November I5-J 6 wct•kt·nd. 
delivered by Rulon Wells of Yale
Conference, railed tht• Institute and cannot afford ('onft•renn· Lcclurt•s. informal "an 'utnhrclla· type of costs. s l u den l-far u lty-ad ministration University. All ll'dtues will he in Carroll
organization whirh provides So working l h rough discussions, !•and disrussions, Hall in the Mi.idelcva Memorial
funds and coordination for MrDonough, Director of sodal enrounlns, ;.md i.l h;mqud programs which promote thl' Minority Rt•rruilmenl for liH· have hrrn plan1wd. Rev. Thomas E. Chambers, CSC Building. 

----------------------~----~---­
PAGE 2 THE 0~ FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1969 

Advisory Couneil strongly favors co-education 
by John DiCola The Arts and Letters Advisory 
Council  met  with  five  Notre  
Dame and  five  St.  Mary's  
students  last  Thursday evening  

to discuss co-education of the two schools. Although the idea of co-education was treated somewhat philosophically, the Council and the students also discussed the problems which would be created by 
Congradula tions 
CLAIRE and MIKE 
Love, 
505 
co-education. The concensus of the entire body was very favorable toward co-education. 
John Zimmerman, one of the students who participated in the meeting and also a member of the Co-education Co-ordinating Committee, stated that the Council "did not hold on to the concept of a male university, but they felt that the merits of co-education outweighed the merits of non co-education at the University." 
Zimmerman pointed out that this favorable attitude was not expected of the Council by the. students. The Advisors are deans 
of the Arts and Letters College and selected Arts and Letters alumni. They form a recommending body to their departments and to the university. 
Zimmerman said, "Students have the idea that alumni are Council strongly favoring co-education." 
opposed  to  all  change  in  the  
university,  I  anticipate  a  
recommendation  from  the  

The Advisory Council was also informed of a test case concerning consolidation of the sociology departments now on the agenda of the Co-education Co-ordinating Committee. 
In the area of Alumni relations, the Council would like St. Mary's girls to join Notre Dame students in speaking tours for the promotion of co-education to the Notre Dame alumni. 
The university committee working toward co-education is the Co-education Co-ordinating Committee. In a meeting last Octoher 14, the tri-partite committee made plans to consolidate registration of ND and SMC students. This would be on a limited basis in January and full-scale for the 1970-71 school year. 

The committee gave its recommendation for a new computer to handle the combined registration and also the future combined grading and class assignments to Mr. Leo Corbaci, assistant Vice-president and Registrar, to take to the Vice-Presidents Council. 
John Zimmerman pointed out 
that there are some problems in 
the present system of 
co-exchange. He said that "many 
St. Mary's girls are eating lunch ' in the Huddle when they could 
be getting free meals in the 
Notre Dame dining halls." He 
stated that co-ex students both 
at St. Mary's and Notre Dame 
. may obtain a meal pass at their J registrar's office, which will permit them to eat lunch at the opposite campus. 
TWAputa price onyour head tha!evenyourparents m1ghtagreeto pay. 
We're out to get you home for the holidays. Fast. 
Which is something that your parents will probably enjoy too. 
Something else they'll enjoy is our fares for students. On a standby basis, you'll get 40% off regular coach fares. 
Which doesn't mean you 'II be flying second class or anything like that. 
You still get all the great food and TWA features like movies and stereo music~ But it won't cost von like it does everyone else. 
J 
And TWA flies to nearly all the major cities in the U.S., plus we have a special youth fare to Hawaii. 
With all that going for you, there's only one excuse for not going home for the holidays. Getting your hair cut. 

*By lnflight Motion Pictures Inc. ~ on transcontinental non-stops. 

John Zimmerman 
Commenting on the future of 

co-education at Notre Dame, Zimmerman said, "There doesn't seem to be much of a commitment of this university to co-education. Things are moving at the pace of a crippled · snail. I envision that the students 
on the committee will have to 
act as devils' advocates to move 
more quickly and with more 
definite direction." 

Dress board now hearing cases 
The members of the SMC dress board have been chosen and are now hearing cases. They are Sr. Mercita, administrative representative, Miss Janetta McNamara, faculty representative, and Mary Osmanski, senior Sociology major and student representative. 
Students should contact committee chairman Mary Osmanski at either Box 1101 or Ext. 4720. 
N 
s 

r----~-~MnwER (; 

I"THE I!BERTINEJ 
starring 
Catherine Spaak and 
Jean-Louis Trintignant 
Produt'fll by Silvio Clemenh'Jii 
Directed by Pa~uale fHl•·<'•rnp•nih• 
EASTMANCOLOR 
Rt'lu!H'dthrou•hll~,AUDUBON FILMS 

®PERSONS IJHDF.IC 18 NOT ADMITTEt).' 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 



FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1969 
Kurtz slates speakers for Indian Conference 
by Bro. Pat Carney Feeling that the American In­dian has long been a neglected minority in the country, Bill Kurtz announced plans for the upcoming Conference on the Problems and Culture of the American Indian. Scheduled for January 5-9, the affair will feature speakers from both the official govern­ment agencies dealing with the problem and individual Indians who will present their side of the problem. But cultural activities will also be included to comple­ment the talks. Former Vice-President Hubert Humphrey has given a tentative commitment to appear. The or­ganizers are also contacting Barry Goldwater who has a large Indian constituency and who has indicated on the Senate floor that he was interested in helping them. From the entertainment world, Steve McQueen and Buffy St. Marie have been in­vited. The former has done a good bit of work in this area and Miss St. Marie, of Indian ances­try herself, has been approached about the possibility of giving a benefit concert. Although he is not as famous as the people mentioned above, Mr. Ned Hatathli's appearance may be the most significant in light of the project which is growing from the conference. Mr. Hatathi is the President of the Navaho Community College in Rough Rock, Arizona. This is the first college in the country run by Indians, for Indians, on Indian land. An outgrowth of the Conference has been the setting up of a tentative ex-
NOW 
now you can SEE 
anything you want 



1\iic!~s 
lltDfklLfMN'f~Y 

starring ARLO GUTHRIE COLOR by Deluxe Umterl Arltsls 
~~ 
Coming Soon 

GILLO PONTECORVO'S 

BATTLE OF 
ALGIERS THE STORY OF A REVOLUTION 
2 AND SPM, NOV. 8 AND 9, WASH. HALL ADMISSION: ONE DOLLAR PATRONS: FREE 
NOTES AND SHORT 
PRECEDE FEATURE 
PATRON CARDS FROM YOUR HALL REP AND AT THE DOOR 
PAGE 3 
The picture you will not see onTelevision! 




Bonus-Fri. & Sat. ONLY 
THE IIIRISC~ P.AODUCTIOI COIIi'AIY 'tbllll
.Gunsofthe Magnificent ~ml 


BOT I SIMP~'{ MUST IAL.K TO COLUMBUS' 

Get outta town without leaving campus. The lowest long distance rates are in effect every school night after 7 p.m. and all day Saturdays and Sundays. 

@Indiana Bell 
Use your long distance calling number. Save time. Dial your own calls. 
711£ OBSER11£1t 
FRIDAY, NOVEMB:CR 7,1969

PAGE 4 
.. ---------------------------------------,-------------------'--------, 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 


Security reform 
The attack Wednesday night on Notre Dame split-end Tom Gatewood is another in a series of violent incidents at Notre Dame this year. We think that it is about time that they stopped --or were stopped. 
Among the list are the attack of a Barat girl late at night near La Fortune, the attempted robbery and shooting of a 
. , Notre Dame student on his way to St. Mary's, the sexual molesting of a St. Mary's girl in La Fortune Student Center, as well as a number of other fights, schuffles, and incidents of vandalism around campus. Some of the incidents have racial overtones which makes dealing with them a delicate situation. But delicate or not it is about time that someone started to do something. The first thing that the university should do is to begin a full scale shake up of the security department on campus. It is hard to expect security policemen to be everywhere at the same time to prevent incidents. But it is hard to imagine more than two or three m~mbers of the current force who would have the courage or thecompetance to assist someone if he were attacked. This is no reflection on members of the staff as people -just as security guards. Most of them arc too old and just not equiped with the talents needed to deal with violent situations. If they serve any purpose now it is as a deterent to crime. Second, it is time that someone in the security department was trained, or someone hired, who had the skill to follow up on a case and determine who is responsible for some of the things that go on. They are still investigating (or maybe they have stopped) the robbery of three thousand dollars from the Student Union over two years ago. What has happened since the student was shot three weeks ago? Arthur McFarland claims that Gatewood was shot at earlier in the year. He says that Security knew about it. If people are shooting at people on this campus it doesn't take a Sherlock Holmes to realize that there are guns here. It wouldn't take much to track down the owners. There is a lot at stake here. A community which allows crimes of violence to go unpunished for any reason is asking for trouble. Laxity breeds more violence and more violence breeds unrest or retributions. The whole process is a vicious circle. People start to talk and wonder-and then a lot of people start to get afraid --and fear is never a good thing. It has no place at a university. 
One of the Trustees mentioned casually to a rector that it was worth it to him to hire Pinkerton Guards with his own money to see that the parietals hours rule was enforced. He said that it was worth it to assure the continued good reputation of Notre Dame. What about just the continued good of the place? If any of the Trustees have any money to throw around for guards how 
about helping out Mr. Pears and Father Riehle with security? 
In other regards, we do not feel that the university should feel the need to baby sit for any juvenile delinquent. There was a backlash a few years ago because universities were expelling people. It wasn't especially because they were expelling them, but because of the means that they were using. Some of the practices then did not provide for equitable judicial proceedings. 
We have a new judicial system now. It is supposed to be structured justly. There should be no fear to remove students if they don't understand what a university is all about. 
David Breen, Busine• Manager Timothy J. Dineen, Ad.Mgr. News Editor: Glenn Corso Copy Editor: David Stauffer AIIOCiate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, 
Ann Conway, laura Haferd, Jeenne Sweeney, Prudence Wear layout Editor: Mary Beth Crimmins 
The opinions in the editorials,
Photo Editor: Phil Bosco 
news analy~. and columns of Tile
Features Editor: Tom Ehrbar 
Observer are solely those of the
Sporn Editor: t.!_ike Pavl In 
authors and editors of The Oblerver,
Night editor: r>:1il Bosco 
and do not necessarily reflect the
Layout design: Phil Bosco 
views of St. Mary's Collage, the Uni­
Headlines:Fran~~ Weigand 
wnity of Notre Dame, their admini•
layout: Dan Shaw. Sue Bury 
trations, faculty or student
Mike Bridgeman 
bodies. 


MAH FELLOW AHMERICANS .... 
Dave Stauffer 
Rigor mortis 
It wasn't too long ago that my friend died.The exact date isn't known because my friend wasn't sure exactly when he died and if he doesn't know then who possibly could? Actually, I suspect the date, time, and place could easily be specified by my friend if he would only think about it seriously. But there is little he cares to take seriously, most of all death. Besides, if he is dead he sees no way of letting anyone else know the specifics and why should he care to let anyone else in the world know if he isn't in the world with them? 
Maybe I could establish something concerning my friend's death. It may disturb him that I delve into this strictly personal matter but what could he know of it and what does he care anyway (since he is no longer in this world (sec above))? 
To begin, I imagine what his tombstone would read: born Pittsburgh, Pa., June 12. 1953; died -five or six feet above Notre Dame, Ind., 46556, Nov. 5, 1969. May he rest without piece in peace (although the spellings may be reversed (although my friend wouldn't want it that way (although he may agree it would be better (in the end)))). , 
The birth of my friend's death can probably he traced back to his birth in 1953 (but not 1949). However, it was not until the spring of 1969 that he realized the inevitability of his death. It was in the spring of t 969 he read an excerpt from an anti-war pamphlet written in t 917 by Randolph Bourne. This reading had a great impact upon his life, and an even greater impact on his death_ 
Through a rather comic interpretation of this pamphlet, my friend discovered that he could not kill. He wondered if it perhaps was only a simple case of cowardice; that he would rationalize his cowardice by claiming conscientious and of course rhetorical objection to those human (inhuman) activities to which one is generally expected to object conscientiously. But problems arose. He discovered that he was also a coward when asked to join "We won't go" clubs, and their counterparts. He approved of radical activities, talked constantly of joining them, but never took that decisive step to action. To the very day he died he could not kill --this alone accounts for 50% of that which killed him. 
It was also in the spring of 1969 that my friend turned twenty years old. This event was significant only in that it necessarily entailed the fact that he was no longer 19. And this event did not become significant until several weeks and again several days before his death, although even then its significance was merely symbolic (but nonetheless significant). 
You see, he had heard that an individual passes his sexual prime when he reaches his twentieth birthday. This had only been heresay; but at certain points in his life my friend had an amazing ability to blow insignificant ramblings into statements with more moral and philosophical infercn~.:es than words. In any event, it surely can't bother him now, and even if it could, it :;houldn't and therefore won't. 
By the way, it was also in the spring of 1969 that Phil Ochs announced his death. My friend was affected not only by the dead man's songs, but also by his previous songs sung while alive (while Ochs was alive that is) .... (Weil, my friend too for that matter). 
Now to consider ;lis final days: In early October my friend recovered from a serious illness, and he soon realized he was much changed (not by the illness but as a result of it) He firmly convinced himself that this was indeed the dawn of Another age, and that he indeed was and would be a part of it. But he took a turn for the worse (or should I say better) in the last days of October, and his demise was fast. This especially was too bad because of the travt::lling he had planned to do (he had always desired weekend trips). Now that I look back on it, I see that he was very inexperienced, if you know what I want, in everything (that counts) except death. Ironically, it was death he experienced once too often. 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1969 THE OliS.lRVDt 
PAGE 5 
•



In memor1am: Thomas Ehrbar 
By Marilyn Becker 
(To he read in a properly intense dramatic tone... ) 
Tommy is leaving us today. Already our eyes fog with the mist of tears, our breath catches on the point of a soh, our hands shake with the suppressed storm of our grief. (It's pretty hard to operate a typewriter in that condition, we'd like to note.) 
Barely can we contemplate the thought of those long, empty hours, those stern and barren hours in the Observer office, with not even the ghost of a smile. the fading whisper of his sheepish shuffle, the final scrawl of his creative hand to enliven and enlighten the gloom. Only one thought comforts us: as Tommy has yet to walk into the Observer office during working hours this year, we won't be missing much! 
No longer will Guy De Sapio's shout ring through the din of the UPl machine: "Where is Ehrhar? Why isn't his ... page finished? It's after midnight! Why isn't his page started?!" (Certain intervening words have been omitted in the above quote, partly in the interest of the sensibilities of our reading public.) 
No longer will Tommy's manly form 
he seen bending intently over the 
mock-up of his ohstinantly blank 
four-column spread. No longer will his 
silky swatch of blonde curls quiver gently 
as he cries over his typewriter, or hurls his 
column half-written into the wastebasket. 
(Alternately, he hurls his wlumn 
half-written into the typing room witn 
this terse directive to the typist: 
"Improvise an end!") 
No longer will the layout staff puzzle valiantly over forty-two inches of copy, comparing it repeatedly, in hysterical laughter, with the sixteen inches of blank space Tommy has left for it on his page. No longer will this same layout staff debate Tommy's ingenious innovations: diagonal columns, instead of the usual up-and -down ones, purple ink instead of the usual black, articles that begin at the end instead of the other way around. Tommy once suggested thai an article be cut up, and its paragraphs scattered all 
over the page, to be connected by the reader with little arrows. The layout staff loved him for that one! No longer will Tommy, notoriously a 
Jgeneroussoul, buy Cokes(with or without). cyclamate, as you wish) for the entire staff. In fact, as we remember it, ne1•er did Tommy, notoriously a generous soul, 

We all live in a••• 
Hell, admit it. You like cartoons. You hated your father for something like eight years because he made you mow the lawn on Saturday morning and you missed Heckle and Jeckle and Mighty Mouse. Now is your chance. You're big, turned on, educated, all that. People say you shouldn't like cartoons because those tricks are for kids. All you gotta do is pull a little Aristotilian (pronounced Austra­lian) trickery and voila, the cartoon be­comes a socially relevant animated fan­tasy. 
What did you see when you were there? Nothing thai doesn't show. 
There are deep metaphysical problems in Yellow Submarine (that is what we're talking about you know). There are hu­man feeling, and psychedelic colored whiz-bang, and relevancy and several of the worst puns the English language is capable of. There is even a fable you can tell to a small child or goldfish if the 
occasion arises. 
Isn't he a bit like you and me? 
Impress your friends. See Yellow Sub­marine three times in a row (7, 8:30 and I 0 at Washington Hall) and then preach: for a while about pure l"inema, no camera 
angles at all, juxtaposition of shapes and colors and groovy sounds and pictures and stuff and social relevance, and gold­fish. You also get to listen to three speeches of introduction by some guy from Contemporary Arts Festival and practically all the songs from the Beatles' 
Yellow Submarine album. Also besides in addition there are four clues that McCart­ney is dead and three that Disney is alive and I 7 that those villainous Meanies do not only come in Blue. 
Where do they all come from? 
You know you like cartoons. 

buy Cokes~ for the entire staff... In fact, never did Tommy buy anything for the entire staff... 
Be that as it may, we will miss Tom "E" Ehrbar on the Observer staff. We of the Feature Department will miss him more, perhaps, than most. We will be getting a new Feature Editor, one who might possibly force us into doing a little work. Of that, no one could accuse Tommy! 
So we will miss Tommy, our old, true friend. We will miss his creative spark, his talent, his drive. We will miss his dedication, his perception, his ability, his willingness to work. We will miss the joy he brings to all the Observer staff. 
In parting, we would like to offer one last tribute to Tom. It takes the form of a brief paraphrase of Shelley's elegy for John Keats, Adonais. With all due apologies to my verse writing teacher, it is, to wit: 
1 weep for Tommy Ehrbar, and his 
going away from us, his staff; whose 
eyes are flowing with sparkling, glint--. 
ing, shining droplets, tears awakened 
by the thought that he's no longer 
here. 

Sorry about that, world! 
Dear readers, 
Tom Ehrbar is a person you can depend on. Even though this is Tommy's last page as Feature Editor, he still runs true to form by running off for the night and leaving this five inch hole in his page. We, the Thursday night staff, salute Tommy here and now in an effort to fill in the whole. 
Phil Bosco Night Editor 

Son House IS COming 
On Tuesday, November II, 1969, there will be a lecture-concert on Amer­ican Blues in Washington Hall. The lec­ture is on the evolution of the Blues by Dick Waterman in which original tape recordings on the history of blues will be used. The concert is by Son House, the "last and greatest of the Delta Blues" singers. 


Compliments of .. Tell it to Tommy" 
Joe Cottrell 

AlleghenyAirlines helps you beat the waiting game... 
And saves you up to 33%%. 
Allegheny's Young Adult Card lets you fly whenever you want to (even holidays) and still get advance reservations. 
If you're between 12 and 22, what are you waiting for? Stop by any Allegheny ticket counter and purchase your Young Adult Card. 
Allegheny Air System We have a lot more going for you 
r------­
Q 
OBSEIHJER. 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1969

PAGE 6 
STEREO 
COMPONENTS 
reshman counseling innovations revealed 
STOCKING 
Two major new innovations in that it has proven quite helpful. friendship between Notre Dame homesickness a freshman en­DEALERS FOR: the Freshmen Counseling were The sophomores, with their per­students and the South Bend counters when he finds himself revealed yesterday in an inter­sonal experience of student area. He maintains that the only away from home for a longAcoustic Research view with Dean Burke, Dean of problems are often able to reason this program uses fresh­period of time. Speakers, Amplifiers the Freshman Year of Studies. understand a student's problem men is because a freshman will 
Mr. Jerry Kerns is the

and turntables The first change enlists the aid and offer practical solutions have four years to develop an DYNACO of five outstanding sophomore easier than is a faculty member amiable relationship with the alumnus who is helping Dean Burke set up this project. A
Kits, amplifiers, and speakers students in the counseling or, even a trained counselor. family he meets. This · idea 
good response is expected from 

program. One of these students The second innovation in­would, however, help to lessen a
AR Products at 17% Discount 
both the alumni and freshmen.

comes into the counseling office volves the alumni living in St. good deal of the alienation and RMS each day from I :45 ..,.--4:45 
Joe's County. The program, as pm. When a freshman comes to 
planned, would have several hun­

AUDIO SYSTEMS dred freshmen each become GSU given room, funds Dean Burke with a problem, the 

1307 Culvert sophomore is present to offer paired with an alumni family. Phone 288-1681 any suggestions that he may Dean Burke does not consider Both office space and funds Hours 6-9 Mon.-Thurs. have. This program started in this to be true counseling, but have been made available to the 
1-4 Friday 
September and Dean Burke says rather as an attempt to develop Graduate Student Union this
1-5 Saturday 
The burgers are biggerat 



501 DIXIEWA Y NORTH, SOUTH BEND 
. l 


Burger King. Home of the Whopper. 

week as the group begins a study of the Teaching Assistant Situation. 
Jim King, G.S.U. Chairman, announced yesterday that the university has given his organization office space in Room 407 of the Administration Building. In addition, the group has secured a loan from the university to get it started financially until it is able to fund itself. 
Among those who have been instrumental in obtaining these advances was Fr. Botzum, Assoicate Dean of the Graduate School. Fr. Botzum was recently appointed Advisor to the GSU. 
In related news, King also announced his appointment of a fact finding committee to look into the teaching assistant situation. He wishes them to find comparisons with other universities as well as financial situations within the departments at Notre Dame. 
After an initial meeting today, this group plans to meet with Fr. Walsh some time next week. 
The regular meeting of the GSU will take place at noon t o d a y i n the Library Auditorium. King stressed that all Graduate students are welcome to attend. Elected delegates from each department will be expected, of course, but the meetings are open to all graduate students. 

Dean George D. Bruch o the Villanova University of Law will be conducting interviews for prospective students on Monday, November I Oth in Room 154 of the Center for Continuing Education. Sign up for an appointment outside Room I 0 I 0 

The experimental "second theater" 
wants anybody with something to give 
University Arts Council Box 427 or 8004 

the Squire 

HAIRSTYLING for MEN 
• Razor Cuttin1 • Hair Colorina 

Continental Styling Mornings -Mon.. Wed.. Tbw. Artemoons-Mon.. Tue.. Sat. Call for STUDENT SPECIAL 125 E. Colfax Ave., So. Bend PhonP. '34-cn:n 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1969 
PAGE 7 
Letters to the Editor 
Circle game 
Editor: 
This last Saturday I visited your university for a date with a hoy whom I had met from there. When we left campus for a res­taurant that night he suggested we hitchhike, saying it was ok, everyone did it. I felt hesitant, but agreed in sport. We walked to the "circle" where others really were doing the same thing. There was a group of three guys there already so we got in line behind them and waited, one discouraging car after another. When finally one stopped I thought, "The next one will be our turn." I looked for the three guys to get in; hut no, one turned to us and said, "Go ahead." 
Wow! It was, it is ... well, you know, it's wonderful. Please continue to be a com­munity of such dignity. And 
Thanks, 
Kathy Remil 
Northwestern University 
Mass protest 
Editor: 
During the Oct. 15 Moratorium, elements of the Notre Dame communi!~ held a mass at the library as part of the Moratorium expression. In the Thursday edition of the Observer, it was stated that plans were being made for a possible mass in front of the Pentagon. 
It appears that the use of the celebration of the mass is becoming quite a popular form of protest. Various events such as draft card burning are becoming a part of the reliving of the greatest event in human history. The mass is being used as a toy; an instrument of expediency for political ends. This seems a reversion toward the pre-Reformation practice of using the mass and other aspects of Christianity to the most immediate ends of unscrupulous secular rulers in conjunction with a few devious clergy. 
This, of course, is extending endorse and still retain his integ­the point to the historical end. rity. However, the principle is The integrity you have advo­blantantly obvious in this tactic cated in your article is not to be used by my well-meaning fellow found in Sir Thomas. You must students. The proper perspective change your arguments to fit the of the celebration of mass must model, or find another model to be kept in mind. God is not fit your arguments. necessarily on the side of anyone Sincerely yours, who feels their cause is just due Frank Huber to the fact that the worship of 310 Morrissey Him is a 'part' of this cause. 
Robert Souders 
Vote of dissidence 
504 Flanncr Editor: 

Your editorial entitled "Vote 

of Confidence...," concerning r-------------_;_---------------1 
Mr. Nixon's speech of November 3, was disheartening to me in many respects, but let me con­centrate on one of your state­ments: "Our acknowledged mo­tive for being there-the free determination of the Vietnamese people-can not be impugned."

More on 
This gentlemen, is an outrageous Observer: falsehood, and it strikes at the Dear Paul, heart of the problem. You, as 
Your article, "Integrity Phases President Nixon, have ignored Out," deleted much of the the history of this war and movie A Man for A II Seasons. greatly nistorted our role in it. Saint Thomas More was quite I would strongly suggest that content not to say anytl}.ing you read the Geneva Agreements 
against the government. What signed by the French and the More was against, was the taking Vietminh in July of 1954, es­of an oath to affirm something pecially noting the provisions in which he did not believe. therein for "general elections 
Earlier in the movie than the which will bring a.bout the unifi­scene you describe, Margaret cation of Vietnam." (Article More asked Thomas not to sign 14(a)). Study of the "Interim 
anything whi~h might be inter­Reports of the International preted as his support of King Commission for Supervision and 
Henry's marriage. In particular, Control in Vietnam" will make she did not want her father to it sufficiently clear who was sign a new document to which responsible for obstructing the 
the King was ordering his sub­elections which were to take 
jects to put their name. Thomas place in 1956. As the Commis­asked for the exact wording of sion (composed equally of repre­this document, but Margaret sentatives of Canada, India, and could not understand why the Poland) unanimously agreed in words were important and told 1956, "While the Commission him so. Thomas replied, " ... the has experienced difficulties in animals are to serve God in their North Vietnam, the major part innocence, but man is to serve of its difficulties has arisen in God in all the complexity of his South Vietnam." (Sixth Interim mind." This meant that as long Report). 
as he could get around the prob­It is of further interest to note lem legally, he would sign. This that in his book Mandate (or was the same document which 
he later found impossible to 

PLAN YOUR WINlErcjSI,ItiN~ VACATION NOW~ 
to: Jut. Sturionts As'l'n.. Min. Onposlt. $25.00 per seat 
100% Human Hair. Reg. $49.95
. due before Feb. 1. 11:170. Full refund if you cancel by Dec. 1 
WIGS (Mode De Paris France) 

DHPOSJT VHADUNE DEC 1! 
100% Human Hair.

•••••••••·••••••••••················••••···•·················· WIGS Ventilated. (Mode De Paris France).
(Dntnch "& Mnll) 
Reg. $150. 

TO: lulomuiloual Sludonts Asfiut:loelun, 104 Foshay Tower. MinneupoliR, Minnesota 
FALLS 1oo•;~ Human Hair-

Shoulder Length-Reg. $69.95 _ 
<6 1 7 u '••)-117n

Enclosed find $ ....(deposit) r·uJf Puymont to reserve .. . 
'ALL$ 100% Human Hair-

Change President Eisenhower stated that: "I have never talked or corresponded with a person knowledgeable in Indochinese affairs who did not agree that had elections been held . . . possibly 80 percent of the popu­lation would have voted for the Communist Ho Chi Minh..." the nature of the U.S.-supported Diem regime. I would be happy to discuss these matters further with the authors of the "Vote of Confidence... " editorial at any time. 
Sincerely, 
Bill Lesyna, '70 
420 F Hall 

Sure, the U.S. wants "free" elec-r-A~T-T~E....:......N_T_J_Q_N----. tions, as long as we are sure that we can win them. 
SM C 

There are of course many : other relevant details, notably BACHELORS SIX OPENS the history of the first Indo-SATURDAY 7._00 PM
chinese War (1946-1954) and 
OBSERVER Staff Meeting 
For all personnel Today at 4:30 

~A 

~ Nov. 23 ~ Dr. Richard Hutchenson ~ SMC Phil. Dept. Head 
«;o 
OJC' 
4',(i
~tr,s 
100o/o HUMAN HAIR
INT'L. STIJDJ~NTS ASSN~ Ot'FiiRS ITS MEMUI\ItS 
• EUROPEAN QUALITY 

(Mode de Paris france) 

FACTORY -1 YEAR GUARANTEE(Ski Holiday!): 


SWilZEHLAND 
Buy Direct from Factory 1
(via Swiss Air) 

Donor! ChicuHo: Murch 21 Rot urn Chicn~o: March 20 

NOV.& 

open
Depurl Chieago: March 211 

DAYS 
~

thru
Return Chicago: April 4 
SUNDAY\~ 
Trip Includes: Round trip jot fore 
NOV.9 11-4 
per person: hotol room; douulo 

ONLY! 

LAST DAY 
occuponcy: lift tickets: 6 ski los­
100% Human Hair. Limited
sons: boggngo handling; trons-
WIGLETS Colors. Reg $10.95 ___ $1.98
fors; all meals; ski equipment; got-ocquolnted happy houri 
100% Human Hair. Extra
WIGLETS Large. Reg. $19.95 $6.88
Trips sponsored by Internatlonnl Students Association, representation around the world. Moko checks pnyahlo 
POSTICHES 100% Human Hair. 2'/z-Oz.
8-10 long. The Best One_ $9.88 
$14.88 
$45.88 $24 95 
• 
sonts on trip to .............departing ........ , ... . 
Fft One of the Finest-Reg. $79.95 --$36.95 
NAME: ........................................ . 
For Grecian Curls­
ADDRESS: ...................PHONE: ........... . 
CASCADES Reg. $39.95 $12.88 
SCHOOL: .......... , .......................... . 
bee. 4 Dr. John Houck Business Dept. 
).._" 

~-············COUPON·············· 
:  SUI Dlsc.T 01 WilLETS  :  
:  SUI DISCOUNT 01 WIIS & FALLS  :  
:  OVEI S2UI  :  




WIGS s1o.s 
WASH & WEAR (SYNTHETIC-PRECURLED STRETCHABLE) 
Coit·t~ures 
By Phyllis 
HOURS: 
Thurs.-Sat. 
10:00-6:00 Sunday II :00 4:00 

2618 South Mi(~bi~an St. 
No Reasonahle Offer Refused Phone 287-4.606 South Ucnd 
·----------------------------------------------------~-------------------------------------­
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1969

PAGE8----------------------------------~~===~~o==~====,~~-­



Balanced Panthers greatly improved 
Once again firmly entrenched 3.4 yards per carry (compared to yards total offense almost doubtful for Saturday. Poskon, a Navy. Yoder now sports a rush­in the Top Ten of both wire NO's 4.6). equally divided between rushing Pittsburgh area native, is still ing average of 7. 7 yard per carry. service polls, Notre Dame travels Quarterback Jim Friedl has and passing. And about Ralph nursing a pinched nerve in his One sore spot which showed to Pittsburgh tomorrow to take accounted for 95 I of Pitt's 1074 Cindrich, DePasqua says he neck. up against Navy was the inexper­on a Panther squad much better serial yards. Last week he hit on "would not trade that boy for Irish fans are watching more ience of the punt returns tand­than that which has faced the 19 of 29 passes for 186 yards any linebacker I've seen." and more closely the running ems. Ralph Stepaniak, Ed Gul­Irish the last two years. Pitt's and two TO's in sparking his DePasqua might change his magic of reserve quarterback Bill yas, and Mike Crotty seemed record stands at 3-4, a great club to a 21-20 upset over Syra­mind this week, especially if ND Etter. Now the club's third rank­unable to get anything going. improvement over last season's cuse. Surprisingly, Friedl's prin­linebacker Bob Olson and his ing rusher, Etter has gained 279 Let's hope they've worked on it 1-9 slate. New coach Carl DePas­cipal target this season has been wrecking crew continue to deva­yards in only 25 carries. Two this week because they can fig­qua stated at the beginning of his wingback Steve Moyer, who state opposing offenses. The other reserves, Bob Minnix and ure on lots of action this Satur­the year that he would return to has grabbed 37 passes for 356 Irish defense will be gunning for Jim Yoder, had big days against day. Western Pennsylvania foothall­yards and two touchdowns. Split their third straight shutout. "tough, hard-nosed fundamental end George Medich has four They've allowed only 92 rushing foot ball." scoring throws to his credit yards per game, 2.4 yards per 
No change at Indiana 
The Panthers differ in two along with 260 yards on 22 run. And they've held enemy 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind.
major respects from the last two passes. By average, Ferris has the passers to a meager .383 comple­grievances by the athletes. 
(UPI)-Indiana football coach
ND opponents. First, they do best mark with 10 catches for tion percentage. Pont said the grievances were 
John Pont said Thursday there
not depend upon one facet for 172 yards. That big offensive show "personal and not racial," but 
was no change in the status of
offensive power, as compared to The second difference is against Navy upped NO's total refused to release the list. 
eleven Negro athletes dropped
the passing attacks of Tulane size-the Panthers are nowhere offense average to 456.9 yards He told the six underclassmen from the Rose Bowl cqntender
and Navy. Pitt has 2288 yards near as tiny as either the Green per game. Joe Theismann didn't of the group that those who still 
much passing exercise last for missing two straight practice to
total offense this year, 1214 on Wave or the Midshipmen. Their have wanted play football at 
sessions. Pont, who met with the
the ground. Tony Esposito has defensive front four averages week but he sports a .572 com­Indiana could report for spring
eleven earlier in the day said
run for 561 yards and Dennis 6-2, 232 lbs. and their offensive pletion percentage and 107 8 practice or during the fall. The
their grievances were not racial.
Ferris has 302 to his credit. The line goes 225 lbs. per man. The yards. His third leading receiver, status of the scholarships
The meeting betwee~ Pont
Panthers have averaged around Pitt defense has given up 2338 tight end Dewey Poskon, is renewed each year was still
and the athletes was requested uncertain.
through a black faculty member Those underclass players areto discuss the players' status.
Notre Dame seven-game statistics 
Greg Harvey, Larry Highbaugh, The meeting resulted in a Gordon May, Bob Pernell, Don
by Rushing 23 complete review of the boycott 
9 4 7 Silas and Greg Thaxton.
by Passing situation and the presentation of TEAM STATISTICS N.D. Opp. by Return 11 .IIII..IIIII...IIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
0 Total Offense 3,198 1,530 Field Goals (Atts-Made) 4-2 4-1 -Total Plays 586 464 Safeties 
0 0 
~~;.:..:.~\

-Yards Per Game 456,9 218.6 PAT-Kick (Atts-Made) 31-28 11-11 
' 
PAT-Run 1-1 0-0 PAT-Pass 
10'-~ 
Net Yards Rushing 2,067 644 1-0 0-0 -Rushing Plays 447 271 INDIVIDUAl SCORING -~\~ • > . -.' .f
~r~, 


i~IRISH EYE
-Yards Per Rush 4.6 2.4 TO's Kick Play FG TP Barz

-Yards Per Game 295.3 92.0 7 42 Hempel i
31-28 4-2 34 By Mike Pavlin, sports editor 
Allan I " 
Net Yards Passing 1,131 886 5 30 ' Gatewood 5
-Attempts 131 193 30 

Ziegler ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Completions 80 74 4 1-1 26 
Huff 4 
24 

A lull in the fighting
Theismann
-Percentage .575 .383 4 1-0 24 

Etter Somehow, this week is sort of a lull in the heated action of
-Had Intercepted 11 15 2 12 

Lewallen conference races. There arc several big clashes, but Ohio State,
-Touchdown Passes 9 4 6 -Yards Per Game 161.6 Yoder 1 6 Texas. Arkansas, and Notre Dame have Iaughers while UCLA and
126.6 

Penn State are not scheduled. I could find only 23 games close Interceptions Made 15 11 PASSING enough to pick this week and even some of those mre stretching it. -Yards Returned 103 121 Notre Dame over Pitt --by 27. This is a better Panther squad
No. Cmp. Yards PCT. Int. TO Theis man 131 75 1,078 .572 11 than usual, but that's not saying much. Pun Return Yards 
161 74 Etter 8 5 53 .625 0 9 0 LSU over Alabama-by 17. Somewhere along the line this year, 
-Number of Returns 28 18 
Bear Bryant and his boys have lost the magic. This would be a good
-Average Return 5.8 4.1 PASS RECEIVING Yards TO Avg. longTom Gatewood 
place to regain a little of it.
31 505 5 16.3 55 

Average Punt Dewey Poskon Florida over (ieorgia -by 3. Definitely has the makings of a
34.2 37.1 13 176 0 13.5 37 

-Yards Punting 1.060 2,079 Bill Barz 16 161 10.1 26 classic game. I'll give it to John Reave's passing arm. He's the new
2 

-Number of Punts 31 56 Denny Allan 7 128 0 18.3 56 NCAA total offenst' leader. Ed Ziegler 
6 100 2 16.7 29 Wyoming over Utah --by 3. The sleeper in the Rockies this Kickoff Return Yards Bob Minnix
249 675 1 16 0 16 16 Yt'ar, Utah will find the Cowboys revenge-minded after last week's -Number of Returns 18 Nick Furlong 2 14 0 8
39 7 loss to Arizona State. 
-Average Return 13.8 Jim Yoder 1 9 0 9

17.3 9.0 Missouri over Oklahoma --by 6. I think Missouri's balance will 
Andy Huff 
2 0 4.0 11

8 off set Steve Owens. Besides, Sports Illustrated jinxed him by
Penalties Against 28 Mike Crotty 1
33 5 0 5.0 5 
putting his picture on this week's cover.

-Yards Penalized 343 325 Iowa over Indiana by 7. The Hoosiers can't help being hurt by
INDIVIDUAl TOTAl OFFENSE lEADERS 

Fumbles (lost) 14 (8) the loss of five black starters, among them Larry Highbaugh, the
10 (7) Plays 
Yards Avg. 
super punt return specialist.
Joe Theismann, qb 
204 1,324 6.5
Total First Downs 

171 95 Purdue over Michigan State --by 10. Duffy can't seem to do
Ed Ziegler, hb 84 434 5.2 anything right this year. Maybe getting rid of Bill Triplett at qb will
INDIVIDUAl PUNTING

R ETUR NS(Number-Yards-Touchdowns) 
spark the Spartans.
Interceptions Punts Kickoffs No. Yards Avg.

Jim deArrieta Delaware over Lehigh -by 24. Let's see. If Rutgers beat Navy
Schumacher 3-8-0 8-37-0 28 96i' 
Jim Yoder 34.5 by 12 and Delaware beat Rutgers by 44, that makes Delaware 56
Stepaniak 2-32-0 2 93 Team 46.5 0 points better than Navy. And since ND is only 47 points better than
Ellis 2-28-0 1 0 Gasser 2-12-0 Navy .... Seriously, the Blue Hens must watch out for a letdown after Olson 1-15-0 7-75-1 DEFENSIVE STATISTICS their incredible smashing of Rutgers last wet·k. Lewallen 1-5-0 TM Tl-Yds PUB FA Florida State over Virginia Tech -by 13. 
Thomann 1-3-0 Olson 94 8-74 1 1 Georgia Tech over Tulane --by 14. Kelly 1-0-0 1-25-0 McCoy 68 8-29 5 Kentucky over Vanderbuilt -by 1. McKoy Kelly
1-0-0 51 1-8 SMU over Texas A & M ·--by 17. 
Gulyas 9-14-0 Schumacher 46 4-28 1 
TCU over Texas Tech -by 7.

Allan 1-4-0 9-161-0 Kadish 46 5-26 1 
Syracuse over Arizona --by 14.

Ziegler 3-20-0 Patulski 36 4-16 
2 2 
California over Oregon Stae--by 7.

Barz Gasser
2-14-0 32 7 2 

Crotty 2-6-0 1-22-0 Raterman 29 1 Army over Oregon --· by I 0. 
1 

Cieszkowski 1-13-0 Ellis 24 9 USC' over Washington State --by 14. Etter 1-5-0 Stepaniak 23 6 Air Force over Utah State --by 20. RUSHING Swendsen 20 2-4 2 Colorado over Kansas ···· ·-by I 7. 
Neidert

TC Yards TO AVG. long 20 1-7 2 Nebraska over Iowa State --by 14. 
Zikas 
17 2-17

Ed Ziegler 84 434 2 5.2 46 Kansas State over Oklahoma State · -by 14.
Wright 12

Denny Allan 95 397 5 4.2 28 Michigan over Illinois by 17.
ZlochBill Etter 

2 5 279 2 11.2 79 12 Northwestern over Minnesota --by 3.
Patton 
9 1-9

Joe Theisman 
73 246 4 3.4 46 Bill Barz 
Thomann 9 LAST WEEK: Winners, Won 17 Lost 8 .680
57 211 5 3.7 22 

Andy Huff 42 165 3.9 21 lewallen 7 (1) Point Spreads, Won I 2 Lost 13 .4HO Merlitti 
... Mike Crotty 26 122 0 4 4.6 13 6 1-4 SEASON: Winners, Won 126 Lost 48 Tied 2 .724 
Eckman

Bob Minnix 17 75 0 4.4 10 3 Point Spreads, Won 76 Lost I00 .432 
Hempel 3Jim Yoder 9 70 1 7.7 27 Reid 3Dick Zielony 14 52 0 3.7 10 McHale 3Bill Gallagher 4 16 0 4.0 9 Nash 3Tom Gatewood 1 0 0 0.0 0 

Cloherty 2 TEAM SCORING Gasseling 
2 
NO OPP Witchger 1

Total Points 
234 80 Bossu 
1-8

Touchdowns 33 11 Offense 6 




