
One of these lovely little ladies will be crowned Notre Dame's J969 Homecoming Queen. Voting will be tonight in the dining halls. 


by Cliff Wintrode Fa I her lleshurgh at the llall l'rcsitknts Coundl mcl·ting last night l~XIHCSSl'd doubt that the Board of Trustees would a pprovc any major ch<J nges in parietal hours. II eshurgh said t hot he persuaded the Boord to occcpt the idt•a of porieta I hours and tht• decision was a "change of ont'-hundrcd and eighty degrees for almost every mcrnhl'r." 
Twelve blacks, claim insults, attack student 
Violrlll"t' hit Alumni /1;111 
early Sunday when a 3:30a.m. 
knock on a door Jed to ten 
stitches in the ht•ad of Junior 
Matt Connelly ;md the ;mest of 
two ot ht•r Notre Dame st udcnts. 
According to Connelly, the 
source of the event goes hack lo 
a verbal battle at the circle over 
an hour previously_ 
During that encounter be­
t ween Connelly, who is white, 
and an unidentified black, the 
black man allegedly made a re­
mark about Connelly thinking 
himself superior because of his 
Bengal boxing jacket. The boxer 
claims he took it off and offered 
it to his adversary if he could 
win it in a fight. 
At this point, the black man reportedly cited the size differ­ence as a reason for not fighting hut added "Wait till my friends hear about this." Connelly then gave him his room number. 
The pounding on the door woke Connelly and his room­mate Irish fullback Bill Barz. They claim twelve blacks (none of whom was the person involv­ed in the original argument) came into their room and said "We hear you've been calling us niggers." To which Connelly re­plied "The way you guys are acting now, that's what you are." 
After this confrontation went on for a while, Connelly asked just what they had in mind. One of the twelve supposedly said "either hit him or let's go." 
Connelly said that the other eleven then jumped him and began hitting him on the head with something which he could not identify. Barz thinks it might have been I heir shoes 
(continued on flUKe 2) 

lie added that the Board co-education, the growing gap of to one ratio would eventually be accepted parietals only after distrust between administration established between Notre Dame being told by him that "this and and students, hall rectors, black students and female students. only this" form of parictals was studies, campus renovation and He understood that St. Mary's 
what the students wanted_ the Moratorium. Hesburgh said enrollment would be upped to 
lleshurgh said if the Board Notre Dame will probably sixteen hundred by next fall. was confronted with new become a coeducational This rise can be accomplished proposals for increased parictals institution, but the questions with the present facilities at St. it would turn to him and say surrounding such a move will Mary's but the probable next "We told you so." not be acted upon until the jump to twenty-five hundred 
Other topics for discussion University's financial crisis is students would require between Hesburgh and the hall overcome. additional facilities. presidents concerned Hesburgh believed that a three Jlesburgh said the big question was whether the money 
could be found to enlarge St. Mary's capabilities to handle this large student increase. 
"St. Mary's College wants an identity of its own -a place called St. Mary's College, a president, and a Board of Trustees," explained Hesburgh when asked about a possible merger. 
Heshurgh foresaw no difficulties in granting a Notre Dame degree to a St. Mary's student who has taken more courses at Notre Dame than at St. Mary's. 
He added that probably some degree-granting departments will probably located at Notre Dame while some departments will be housed at St. Mary's. 
"You conceivably could spend all your time Glen Corso communicating," said Hesburgh in commenting on the credibility
Father Hesburgh addresses the Hall President's Council gap between students and 
Defeat shuttle fare proposal 
by John DiCola The shuttle bus service stated their position. Harmon Special Assistant to Fr. bet ween Notre Dame and St. argued that, because there are Hesburgh, for permission to Mary's currently charges ten valid academic pursuits both at speak before the Vice-Presidents cents per rider after six o'clock St. Mary's and Notre Dame after Council on October 14. The 
p.m. A proposal made by the 6 p.m., the chagre is unjustly Student Union was not allowed Student Union which would end levied. He believes it is the duty to speak because, according to this charge has been turned of the University to providc Fr. Wilson, it is traditional that down by the Vice-Presidents these services free. These students do not speak at Council Council. These administrators academic pursuits include usc of meetings. have instead invited the Student the library, lectures, and use of Fr. Wilson presented the Union to participate in a study the computer center. 825 girls proposal at the Vice Presidnets of the situation. from St. Marys had signed a Council meeting last Wednesday. 
On October 6, the Student petition demanding removal of The Council turned it down Union sent a letter to Frs. the charge after 6 p.m., because because funds for free bus Hesburgh, Joyce, McCarraghl'r, they felt it "taxed" their usc of service after six o'clock were not and Walsh of the University facilities. included in the budget. Administration. The letter Fr. Wilson admitted in his Therefore, they concluded, there outlined the student's proposal office that he could see the was not enough money to to end the hus charge and gave academic reasons for continuing support free service. the basic reasons for their free bus service after six o'clock The Council decided to form position. from Sunday to Thursday. II is a study which would investigate 
The following day, the objection to free service on the problem. The Student Union Student Union met with Father Frid<Jy and Saturday evenings was invited last Friday to Jerome Wilson, Vice-President was that the University does not participate in the study. The for Business Affairs. Jay have to subsidize the social life Council said that the charge Harmon, Public Relations of the students_ The Student would be maintained until some Director of the Student Union, Union then asked Mr. Facenda, (continued on page 2) administration. 
Hesburgh felt the University publications and student press helped to alleviate the lack of communication. 
"If it (information) has to come from the top, then there is something wrong," said Hesburgh. 
Hesburgh added that the Univeristy is decentralized to promote more contact between the level of decision and those affected by the decision. 
"The idea that nothing can get done if Hesburgh is not around is not true," he continued. 
"The best people in the hottest spots," is the criteria used in placing hall rectors explained Hesburgh. 
"The only alternative is to hire people to he rectors. If I were a layman, I would not do that for $25,000 a year," said Hesburgh in commenting on the lack of qualified and intereste~l priests. 
Hesburgh mentioned that a new committee with a black law professor as chairman was interviewing candidates for the directorship of the Black Studies Program. 
The old committee was composed of six members and each had presented a "differend minority report" on the whole setup of the program. 
Hesburgh did not mention a date by which a director will be selected. 
Seventy-five thousand dollars has been spent on renovating old halls which is greater than the allocated budget sum reported Hesburgh. 
The monetary breakdown for the two new high rise dorms was Jliven by Hesburgh as being one rrii.llion dollars right a way, one million over a ten year period, and three million borrowed from the government. Two more donors are being sought to name the other towers after. 
Two reasons prevailed in the administration's decision to remain open on October 15th reported Hesburgh_ 
First, the University can not come out with a political decision that would affect the whole student body and in effect force the decision on unwilling students. 
Second, the University as a university can not take a stand on a political issue but rather instead serve as thl· place for discussion of that issue. 
711E OBSERVER. 
OCTOBER 20, 1969
PAGE 2 
Blood, Sweat, and Tears plagued by problems 
by Mark Nelson scheduled for 8:00 was first had not yet arrived. 
"The delay in the 'Blood, delayed because many people Jim Babb, road manager for Sweat, and Tears' Concert were tied up in a traffic jam the group, left to pick up the Saturday night was caused by between St. Mary's and the last two members, who were in several factors," explained Convocation Center; Elkhart, as the !Jreceding group 
concert chairman Steve At 8:45, the first half of the 
went onstage. However, Babb Saeugling. concert, "Cosine..: and Water and did not arrive back until 10:00, Air"' went on stage and played
"We did all we could, but because of an Elkhart traffic several things were out of our until 9:15. However, at this jam. control," said Sauegling. time, two of the nine members "At this point, Blood, Sweat, The concert, which was of "Blood, Sweat, and Tears" and Tears had broken the 
Price starts training program 
A training program for new
f d · . . 
?o services personne1 was 1m­hated ~s~ week m the Notre DRamke dlllnmg halls. -~r. Thfof'?as 
oc we , new trammg o 1cer 
for the program, was contracted by Edmund Price, Director of the University Food Services. 
Rockwell was formerly a culi­nary arts instructor at the Indi­ana Vocational Technical Col­lege in South Bend before begin­ning work at Notre Dame last 
F ·d f 
n ay. As a pro essional food-man Mr. Rockwell has been asso-
Cleveland Club 
General Meeting 
Tonight 
7:00p.m. Room 2-C Lafortune 
Events to be announced Memberships sold 
ALL ND & SMC students welcome! 
cia ted with every phase of the food business. Rock well described the new 
program as ideal for young peo­pie who lack the finances to study the culinary arts at a 
regular college. 
His students will receive ap­proximately thirty-three weeks of training on a co-op basis. For the students will both work in the kitchen and attend two hours lectures daily. 
In the classroom they will be indoctrinah•rl ;" ~h~~-·· . 
·l ss penods we
"During some c a_.~~~ pcuus we may discuss how each item of 
the menu for that day is to be prepared and served," Rock well said. 
Cooking methods will be of primary concern in Rock well's lecturer but personal hygiene and sanitation will also be stress­ed:,A ill
c1ean person w prepareclean food," Rockwell said. The students will also receive a well-rounded education in the 

Craftsmen in Optin 
fOR THE FINES I EYEGlASSES AND CONT~CT LENSES fHE SHERLAND BLDG -·132 S. MICHIGAN SJ...tl.'£:;tral ;~-1461lf' 

M<1in Office: 135 N. Wabash Avc.--ChicoQn 
k"t ·h u d R ·k 11' d _
1 c en. n er oc we s e u 
cation they will work with the regular cooks in the pantry, the butchershop, and the bakery. 
"This is a long range program because all my students are green people," Rockwell saido. But at the end of their tr'aining period, the students will be able to handle any working cook's job in the kitchen. "They will be able to prepare soups, sauces, meats, etc.," Rock well said. 
"I'm 
very enthused about 
this. The program should be very 
beneficial to the University by 
creating available food service 
personnel," Rockwell said. 
"There are some good cooks in the South Bend area but you couldn't hire them to save your
soul. There is just a shortage of personnel. If you want goodpeople, you have to make them, not hire them," he continued. 
Only three persons are pre­sently enrolled in the program, but Rock well is confidant that 
the enrollment will increase. He has been soliciting new students through the Indiana Employ­ment Service, OJT (On Job Training), and newspaper ads. 
Applicants will first be inter­viewed by Rockwell. They will then be screened by Notre Dame's Personnel Department. Prospective students should possess mental alertness, manual dexterity, and a willingness and ability to learn," Rockwell said. 
"We discriminate neither bet­ween sex or race," he added. 
contract, which stipulated that the stage was that the group said they perform between 8:00 and they would line up for a 10:00, so we had the perogative three-quarters stage. However, 
to cancel the show or let it go they lined up in a straight line, on. But since the people had and, as a result, the people 
waited so long, we decided to go sitting to their side could see on as planned," said Dave very little," said Associate SU Vecchi, SU Socail Director Tito Trevino. 
Commissioner. "People should try to getThe group played for sixty 
there on time because it is hard 
minutes stipulated in the for groups to perform with 
contract. people walking in during the 
"I was very disappointed in 
show, and unfair to those who the way they lined up on stage. are trying to watch the The only reason that we sold 
performance," commented tickets to seats on the sides ot Trevino. 
Mixers losing money 
One of the few new social innovations to hit Notre Dame in a long while is being strangled to death by lack of funds. The Rathskellar mixers, which are held every Sunday afternoon from 2-5 p.m. have been incur­ring rather steady losses, which will soon cause them to be dis­continued. 
The biggest problem, accord­ing to Tom Taylor, who runs the dances jointly with the band who plays there, is the fact that they are charged $50 a week for the use of the Rathskellar. Due to the fact that the band has 80% of the gate receipts it can­not accept any more losses. Taylor admitted the possibility of cancelling the dances within the next week or so, unless there 
is an increase in admissions. 
Yesterday 20 SMC girls, I 5 
ND guys, 30 girls from town, 
and 18 guys from town attended 
the dance. Taylor pointed out 
the fact that "This is one of the 
few events on campus where 
there are more girls than guys 
present." Total gate receipts 
though, were $35, thereby auto­
matically incurring another loss, 
on ro0m rental alone. 
Taylor said that he would 
"like to keep out all people from 
South Bend, except for high 
school senior girls," but that it 
was impossible due to "the 
current financial situation." 
Taylor stressed that he is at­
tempting to give the mixers a 
"party atmosphere," a type of 
thing where "guys and girls get 
his dances were instrumental in 
having "the Student Center used 
by students, rather than people 
from town." 
Taylor cited the need for places where "guys could meet girls easily", and also the need for !locial events after the foot­ball season ends, and the snow sr,s in. 
"In my freshman year," Taylor said, "I used to meet a different girl from Chicago every w~::ekend over here, until Feb­ruary when they stopped com­ing. They realized that there was nothing going on here." 
The prices are 25 cents for SMC girls, 50 cents for ND guys, SO cents for South Bend girls, and 7 5 cents for South Bend guys.
Shuttle bus fare 
(continued from page 1) 
feasible means coullt be found to Jay Harmon stated, "We feel th t f · t
a re usmg our reques on 
money grounds is ignoring the real issue. They are trying to stall us by changing the subject and this is symptomatic of their lack of commitment to coeducation." 
"We understand that the University is in financial trouble, but it is unfair to tax the students pursuing educational goals within the coed system. By imposing a ten cent charge, they are in effect restricting coeducation to class hours," Harmon said. 
Harmon said that the Student Union will join in the study. 


NOTRE DAME MINIATURES 
A Special Gift -Reserved for Special People 
to meet each other informally." Beat students
He felt he was being unduly penalized by the $50 charge, as (continued from page 1/ 
which· they had taken off and 
STUDENTS 
were holding in their hands. FACULTY & 
After joining i~ the fight, Barz ADMINISTRATION: 
sought help. The assailants fled but the two rommates each 
Solve your problems with a llair-ut 
caught one of the twelve, who from town, on weekends. 
they say theyrecognized to be 
N.D. Barbershop flour~ 
Notre Dame students, and held them for the representatives of the sheriff's office and security. 
8:00 a.m. to 4:45 Sat 
8:00a.m. to 11:45 Opc11 
A call Sunday afternoon lo
5!;2 day.\· a \Vcek. Serl'ing 
security to get the names of
N.D. men ol'cr 100 years. 
those arrested and a possible interview proved fruitless . 
..The Ideal Christmas Gift.. 
IMPORTANT·
Miniature Notr~ Dame rings are available in a wide choice of jeweled or plain styl~s. These nngs. ~ay be presented as engagement tokens to the girl of your cho1ce, or to a fem1mne member of your family with whom you wish to share the 
NEW ORLEANS TRIP 
prestige of your association with the University. 
The miniature ring is identical with the official ring design, only more delicate in its modulation and construction. 
TICKET DISTRIBUTION 
Wedding bands to wear with the miniatures can be especially contoured to fit as an ensemble. These plain and contoured bands are illustrated above. 
TUESDAY; 6:00 -7:30, 
* * * 
ORDER YOUR MINIATURE RING FROM IN THE COKE BAR 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
OF THE RATHSKELLER 
Notre Dame, Indiana 

OCTOBER 20, 1969 
Joins staff 
Michael E. Jordan, a 1968 alumnus of the University of Notre Dame, has joined its staff as assistant alumni secretary. 
The son of a Notre Dame undergraduate and law alumnus, Jordan attended the University of New Mexico Law School dur­ing the past academic year. llis degree from Notre Dame is in government. His parents, Mr. and Mrs. Cecil E. Jordan, live at 3804 Calle del Monte NE., Al­huquerque, N.M. 
He will assist Notre Dame Alumni Secretary James D. Cooney with major responsihili­ties including liaison with local alumni cluhs and their recruiting and placement committees; Uni­versal Notre Dame Communion Day and Universal Notre Dame Night coordination and schedul­ing; logistics for alumni board and senate meetings and class reunions, and general liaisons with the student hody. 
Jordon's mother, the former Patricia Anne Bannon, is an ex­resident of Mishawaka. 
PCO needs aid 
The Indiana Peace Corps Of flee is interested in preparing a reliable mailing list of Returned Peace Corps VoluntC'ers on the Notrt· Dame campus. The listwi/1 be used to inform Returned Vol­un leers ofl'eace Corps ca tivities, both local and will be used to inform Returned Volunteers of Peace Corps activities, hoth local and Volunteer organization which would involve itself in community action projects. 
Those interested should write 1\ l'ilh /It• will at the biter­national Affairs Center. 703 H. 7th Street: Bloomington, Indiana 4740/. 

Charlie's 
STEREO TAPES 
8 TRACK 
List $6.98 
Charlie's Price 
$5.88 
&iAdiWil~ 
OPEN DAILY 9 to 6 ' SAT. 8 a.m. to 5p.m. 
PH. 287·7218 
774 Lincoln Way East 
r<ne Observer Is published dairy· during the college semester except vacations by tne students of tne University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from Tne Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second clasJO postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 
PAGE 3
THE OBSERVM 

Come as you are! 
NOVEMBER 3, 1969 
Now's the time to sign up at your placement office for an inteNiew with the Bethlehem Steel Loop Course recruiter. This could be the start of something big! And just what IS the Bethlehem Steel Loop Course? Glad you asked! It's our management development program for graduates with bachelors' or advanced degrees. 
Bethlehem loopers (150 to 200 every year) spend four swinging weeks at our home offices in Bethlehem, Pa. Then, primed with information about the entire corporation and rarin' to go,. they re­port to the appropriate plants or departments for their first assignments. Then, onward and upward! 
Where would YOU fit into the Loop Course? Check your degree or the one most similar to it: 
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING-Engineering or me­chanical maintenance departments of steel plants, fabri­cating works, mining operations, and shipyards. Fuel and combustion departments. Supervision of production operations. Marine engineering assignments in Ship­building Department. Also: Sales or Research. 
METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING-Metallurgical de­partments of steel plants and manufacturing operations. Engineering and service divisions. Technical and super­visory positions in steelmaking departments and rolling mills. Also: Research or Sales. 
CHEMICAL ENGINEERS-Technical and supervisory positions in coke works, including production of by­product chemicals. Fuel and combustion departments, including responsibility for operation and maintenance of air and water pollution control equipment. Engineer­ing and metallurgical departments. Steelmaking opera­tions. Also: Research or Sales. 
INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING-Positions in steel plants, fabricating works, shipyards, and mines. Engineering and maintenance departments. Supervision of steel­making, rolling, manufacturing, and fabricating opera­tions. Also: Sales. 
CIVIL ENGINEERING-Fabricated Steel Construction assignments in engineering, field erection, or works management. Steel plant, mine, or shipyard assign­ments in engineering, construction, and maintenance. Supervision of production operations. Sales Department as~ignments as line salesman or sales engineer (tech­nical service to architects and engineers). 
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING-Steel plant, fabricating works, mining operations, and shipyard electrical en­gineering, construction, and maintenance departments. Technical and supervisory positions in large production operations involving sophisticated electrical and elec­tronic equipment. Also: Research or Sales. 
MINING ENGINEERING-Our Mining Department op­erates coal and iron ore mining operations and lime­stone quarries, many of which are among the most modern and efficient in the industry. This 1 0,000-man 
activity  offers  unlimited  opportunities  to  mining  en­ 
gineers. Also: Research.  
NAVAL ARCHITECTS AND MARINE  ENGINEERS­ 

Graduates are urged to inquire about opportunities in our Shipbuilding Department, including the Central Technical Division, our design and engineering organi­zation. Also: Traffic. 
OTHER TECHNICAL DEGREES-Every year we recruit loopers with technical degrees other than those listed above. Seniors enrolled in such curricula are encour­aged to sign up for an interview. 
ACCO.UNTAN1S-Graduates in accounting or business adm1n1strat1on (24 hours of accounting are preferred) are recruited for training for supervisory assignments in our 3,000-man Accounting Department. ­
OTHER NON-TECHNICAL DEGREES-Graduates.with degrees in liberal arts, business, and the humanities are invited to discuss opportunities in the Sales Department. Some non-technical graduates may be chosen to fill openings in steel plant operations and other departments. 
WHEN YOU SIGN UP be sure to pick up a copy of our booklet, "Careers with Bethlehem Steel and the Loop Course." It tells it like it is. 
BETHLEHEM STEEL 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 

I 
PAGE 4 OCTOBER 20, 1969 

Mike Kelly 
Save the fieldhouse 
It is rare that someone docs something that is totally senseless. 
Almost any action has some sort of reasonable justification, 
depending on your perspectives and attitudes. Almost any action 
makes some sense. 
It is rare that the Notre Dame administration does something 
totally senseless. Usually their mistakes are well-intentioned actions 
that do not take one or another part of the university community 
into its proper consideration. Usually what students take to be their 
mistakes can easily be defended on the basis of different priorities. 
But rare or not, it appears that the university IS about to do 
something senseless. 
They are going to tear down the fieldhouse. 
The fieldhouse has served as the home of those pep rallies that the Chicago Tribune has described as "making strong men tremble." It is perfectly designed for pep rallies and such, enabling hysteria-ridden mobs to press into a small space and scream themselves hoarse in all winds and weathers. The pep rally has for years entranced freshmen, delighted visitors and genuinely served to bring both the fans and the team to an emotional height for the next day's game. ---And, lest it appear that the fieldhouse is merely a bastion ol emotionalism and athletics, we should point out that the hard-pressed Art Department uses a fair amount of space in the old training rooms. The Art Department is already squeezed into too little space and if the fieldhouse goes they may have to set up their easals in the basement of Breen-Phillips Hall whenever the Baere's Crawe coffeehouse is closed. 
The forces defending the retention of the fieldhouse are awesome; athletics, aesthitics and (the real blockbuster!) tradition. 
In opposition I can only see a vague feeling on the part of the administration that it would be very progressive of them to remove the ugly, old building. It is possible that someone in the office of the Vice-President for Business Affairs was so delighted with a contractor's offer to tear down the building for free, in order to get the material from it, that he accepted without really thinking. 
We are told by the administration that in place of the unsightly, old fieldhouse we will have a beautiful, grass-covered mall, which students will be free to truck across, trample over and groove on. The idea of a huge hunk of grass in the middle of the campus to hold weenie roasts and pot parties is pretty cool, but we have a lot of trouble simply by allowing students on the lawns that we have already: they needn't go building a new one. And, if you will excuse my cynicism, I think within a few years some members of the administration will grow tired of seeing students laying on the grass and bare spots worn through by people running on the mall. One fall the students will return to find a fence around the newly-sodded mall and no mention of a mall in the student manual's "keep off the grass" rule. 
These are the times that try men's souls. If my friends on the left are eager for a confrontation, they have a perfect opportunity here. Should they seize the administration building, no one except the secretaries in the offices would really care. But if they seized the fieldhouse (Like tonight! Like about seven! Like everybody!) they might find massive student support. 
The Theology majors could issue a statement saying that they would not move from the roof of the fieldhouse and let the skilled tradesmen below tear the building down until the f.killed trades were integrated. 
"rhe administration would be caught in a moral dilemma! The on-campus students could move en ma.fse into the fieldhouse and refuse to pay for their on-campus rooms. The administration would be caught in a financial dilemma! Now is the time to declare solidarity with the fieldhouse! 

Jay Anderson 
8000 bleed, sweat, and cry 
by Jim Brogan unknown to the audience) sounded like biggest problems that besets the current 
danced. and clowned around on stage:·­
Last Saturday night Notre Dame saw Judy Collins' version of Suzanne. All of concert season. There is j usl not enough 
even when he just stood there and snap­
its biggest concert of the season. It was them seemed to be original, and this was time between the end of the football 
ped his fingers the audience couldn't take
Blood, Sweat, & Tears at their best, and their biggest trouble. The audience had game and the beginning of the concerts. 
their eyes off him. He is the primary
Tony Kosinec and Water and Air at their never heard any of their songs before, and The 8:30 start (as opposed to the present 
ingredient in making them a ~reat per­
best. couldn't be bothered listening. During 8:00 start) of past years was much more 
forming group.
You are probably asking yourself who every one of their numbers ( 7 in all) there sensible. More people now arrive late than 
They started out by playing More and 
are Tony Kosinec and group. They were was constant chatter from all directions. on time, and it is tragic that the concerts 
More and continued to play all of lht'ir 
the warm up group who proceeded Any one who took the time to listen can't start until everyone is there. So the 
big hils and the best cuts from their two 
BS&T. Most of the audience is still would have heard one of the best blend­people who arc silly enough to believe 
albums. Their best received offering.<> were
wondering who they were and more ings of voice, harpsicord, and flute to what is written on their tickets and arrive 
You 'pe Made Me So Very 1/appy, I Can't 
importantly what they were doing there. come down the pike in a long time. It was on time, have a long boring wait for the 
Quit ller, (,'od Bless the Child, Spinning
The crowd (estimated at about 8,000) too bad that the sound system was so concert to start. 
Wheel, and their current release When I 
had come to hear BS & T and were not poor at first, and that the audience didn't Finally Blood Sweat & Tears appeared. 
Die. 
about to listen to some unknowns play. give them a chance. They were well worth the wait. This was 
The best thing about their sound was 
llad they listened, they would have By the time they finished it was 9:15. the act that people had been waiting 
that it was a good reproduction of their 
heard one of the most amazingly original Tony and his pals had been on stage only weeks to see, and they were finally here. 
records. So often these days records that 
sounds around today. The group was 33 minutes after the customary 45 min­The crowd was pleased to see them, and 
are made in studios with special equip­
made up of three members: Tony ute wait for the concert to start. Here the thoroughly enjoyed them. 
ment cannot be well reproduced live. This 
Kosint'c (guitar and lead singer), Water concert broke for a 15 minute intermis­The BS & T are one of the most 
was not the case with the BS & T. Their
(bass guitar), and Air (female harpsicord­sion, which turned into almost an hour's versatile groups around today, and they 
sound is so dean that they can reproduce
ist and flutist). They put all they had into wait for the BS & T. The problem was proved it on stage. The nine member 
it anywhere; they are truly musicians and
their songs, but were rewarded by only a that two members of the group had not group played somewhere around 17 dif­
do not have to depend on studio hok us­
mocking response from the audience. showed up yet; they were caught up in ferent instruments in their one hour 
pokus to make their sound. 
The lead singer sounded not unlike traffic. performance. The lead singer, David 
The standing ovation they received was 
Arlo Guthrie, and each of their songs (all This serves to emphasize one of the Clayton-Thomas stole the show. lie sang, 
well deserved. 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
The plight of the T.A.'s 
This is the third article in a series describing the numerous d ijficulties which face the Teaching Assistant here at Notre Dame. The English departmenl will serve as a model. 
by Thomas Scheer 
Almost everyone is familiar with the anecdotes surrounding the life of Diogenes of Sinope, a Greek philosopher of the fourth century B.C. Diogenes, tradition tells us, attempted to live asceti­cally in order to achieve self­mastery. To accomplish his end, he lived in a tub, and prided himself upon having an absolute minimum of material posses­sions. ('n~ d:~v. while walking through Corinth, Diogenes saw a man refreshing himself by drin­king water from the hollow made by cupping his hands together. Oiogcnes rushed back to his tub and destroyed the gourd from which he had been drinking, congratulating himself on his freedom from one more unnecessary material object. 
Though most Enslish T.A.'s at the University of Notre Dame have not freely chosen an asceti­cism as severe as that of D i o genes, their Llcgeneraling economic status is beginning to make them wonder ahout the possible advantages of life in a tub, and to make them cherish the few cracked cups still 
remaining in their cupboards. While living expenses in the United States have risen approx­imately 20'(,, in the past four years, and the salaries of the Notre Dame faculty and staff have risen 4 7% per year to meet this rising cost of living, salaries of English T.A.'s have risen 0% from their 1965 figure of $2100. This administrative "ove1sight" has resulted in the T.A.'s salaries being effectually lowered each year of the past four, since the purchasing power of the money they arc paid has been considerably reduced by inflation. A check of colleges and uni­versities across the United States shows that no comparable school has been so reluctant to recognize the demands of nature and modern American society as has Notre Dame. Two different criteria were used to define "comparable" in this particular case. First, using a list in the June, 1969, Bulletin of the American Association of Univer­sity Professors, it was discovered that Notre Oame ranks 123rd in the nation in average full-time faculty compensations. This list was then used to find the names of the 20 colleges and universi­ties which surround Notre Dame in the average salary paid to their faculties. Recourse to the Nov.emher, 1968, issue of Col­
lege Composition and Communi­cation, which lists salarie& paid to English T.A.'s across the country, revealed that none of these schools whose faculty salaries were comparable to 
.Notre Dame's paid their T.A.'s three hours of class per week, and that Washington State Uni­versity pays $3100-3250 per year for a similar three hours of teaching per week. Most of the Teaching Assistants at Notre Dame leach six hours per week, and receive a $2100 stipend. 
The second criterion used to define "comparable" was one suggested by Fr. Walsh, Vice President for Academic Affairs at Notre Oame. Father Walsh opined that Notre Dame com­pared in all aspects to schools such as the University of Wiscon­sin, Cornell, the University of Michigan, Brown, Vanderbilt, Northwestern, Tulane and Stan­ford. The University of Wiscon­sin pays its T.A.'s $4000 for duties similar to those of Notre Dame T.A.'s; Cornell pays $41 50-43 50. A check of all of Fr. Walsh's "comparable" schools reveals that 1111t one of them pays its English T.A. 's less than $500.00 more than Notre Oame Teaching Assistants arc paid for similar services. Many (such as Northw<'~tcrn) pay more than twice the Notre Dame stipend. Without any seeming 
disrespect to Fr. Walsh, it would appear that the comparisons he has suggested should lead him to revise his notions of Notre Dame's grandeur, or at least to remember that graduate students can read . 
That the salary paid English T.A.'s at Notre Dame is grossly inadequate in itself, and hardly equivalent to "comparable" uni­versities, is apparent. The effects of this low salary upon the T.A. personally, and upon his func­tions at the University bear closer scrutiny. English T.A. salaries are not sufficient to sup­port even a minimal modern standard of living for one per­son, much less for a married student who may have children. 
Because of this, many English T.A.'s are forced to "moonlight" at one or even two part-time jobs in order to pay for their housing, medical expenses, books, food, and some luxury items, such as a new pair of shoes or an occasional fling at sin at the South Bend movies. A 
married T.A. who must "moon­light" finds it difficult to meet family economic responsibilities, progress toward his degree, and spend time with his wife and (often) children. It is more than difficult. too, for a T.A. to work up "professional" enthusiasm for his teaching when his stipend 
often cannot meet expenses he 
incurs while merely trying to­
stay alive. Part-time jobs, and 
the physical and psychological 
strains imposed on English T.A.s by their financial condition arc doubtlessly causes of decreased efficiency in their performance as teachers and as students. 
There arc only 28 English 
T.A.s at the University of Notre Dame, and the statement of their financial case may seem trivial in a school of almost 7,00 students. But these 28 bear total responsibility for the Fnglish education of a large majority of the U n i ve rsi t y 's freshmen. Aware of this fact, and aware, too, th;~t anything which affects an instructor necessarily must affect 11is students, the T.A.s of the English department arc cur­rently re-enacting another part of the Diogenes legend. Diogenes was said to have walked with a lantern through Corinth in the daytime, and to have scrutinized each passer-by to find an honest man. The 1-:nglish T.A.s have despaired of finding th~ Christian justice" of Rerum NcJI'arum, and its stress on a "living wage." at Notre Dame. They would be satisfied if, in their search among the Corin­thcan precincts of the llnivasity administration, they cocould but find Diogencs' long-sought "honest man.'' So far, they have had little success. 
OCTOBER 20, 1969 
___THE OBSERfiER
PAGE 6 
·---­
Letters 
Moratorium Editor: In reganis to Messrs. Wolf~, Treanor, and Murphy-and their articles in the Wednesday, Octo­ber I 5, I969 issue of the 
Observer: 
It is really very interesting to see just how much things have changed around Notre Dame m the past few years. As Dave Dillinger remarked in his Tues­
.. day evening lecture, it has be­come a very "camp" thing to protest the War in Vietnam, ju~t as it has become very camp m America to sprout sideburns and long hair, or wear bellbottom trousers and so forth. Two years ago these things might have pro­voked possible violent reactions from members of this com­munity--today they are things very much in the cultural main­stream of American Life, that flow of sometime mediocrity ex­tending from Maine to Califor­nia. d 
-. These three writers in We nes­day's paper do well to a_sk q_ues­tions concerning the dlfectwns of these protests now so much m vogue here and around the n~­tion. And for this reason, their criticism has a very definite and valuable purpose. But the tones, styles and language of these three articles seem to give one the impression that the political ground is beginning to shift and slide on these three very sur­prised fellows and, as a result, they have resorted to all sorts of journalistic and philosophical ~x­cesses reminiscent of the kmd used in the Berkeley Barb or Chicago's Seed. And not only 
this, but all three, sadly, seem to have taken on a very despairing and defeatist attitude in the face of all this "celebration of life" stuff and the rise of the feared "anti-warrior" in the United States. 
My God, Chris Wolfe has for­saken democratic processes as a proper means of determining lines of action, whereas I am sure that, not too long ago, majority rule would have been one of those "unknockable" rea­
,.. sons for U.S. involvement in Viet Nam. And then Mr. Wolfe reminds us that the peace freaks might present a very bad in­
fluence on our very impression­able and innocuous freshmen (and other "newcomers") who might get the "wrong idea"­similar to a lot of Viet Cong who also have the "wrong idea"-­about Notre Dame, the Catholic faith Americanism and so forth. Well,' 1 don't know, Chris, but it seems to me that Ara has eons more influence on these rookies than do such undesirables like Brian Mcinerny, Chuck Leone, or (according to Tom Treanor) Father Hesburgh, and perhaps you should try to urge him to ease off somewhat. He could start by discouraging these young hotheads from such_ ill­advised maneuvers as forcibly entering (without a permit) a University structure (the Field­house) for the purposes of hold­ing a rally (pep). I mean, cannot these rallies be construed as being equally corruptive, as the Moratorium, on the minds of our young? Since when has any­body been allowed the opportu­nity to rise and speak for the "other side" during one of these circus affairs. The man from Hungary carried on for almost five to ten mihutes on the plat­form Wednesday at the Mora­torium--the life expectancy of a comparable figure at a pep rally I am sure would be considerably less. But the purpose of this letter 
is not to fire more barbs at the 
"dissenting minority" on this 
campus--now a proper descrip­
tion, I suppose, of the YAF's 
and their sympathizers. My only 
point is that, when you are 
down do you need to resort to 
such  empty-headed  and  ludi­ 
crous  means  for  offering  criti­ 
cism  aginst  those  "on  top?"  

Viable points may be present in these articles but they are buried deep beneath the morass of juve­nile name-calling, canned out­rage, and even some of Tom Treanor's· "profound idiocy." These gentlemen describe all of the dramatic personae and their workings in the Notre Dame scene with the kind of journalis­tic insight and understanding one would use on the Marx Brothers at the Opera. lias the New Right been reduced to the realm of the absurd? 
You boys seem to be a lit tie 
You've liberated your libido and you're mak­ing the scene! Now you can wear the shirt with the unconventional air, Van Heusen Hampshire House! The shirt with the bold, brash stripes and switched-on solid 
shades. The one with the new wider spread Bradley collar. And with per­
manently pressed Vanopress to let you skip the ironing drag. Kick over 
the traces, man! C'mon over to Hampshire House! 
bitter about something-but in the long run you might do better to think and write with a little more literary sensitivity and sophistry than that which you have displayed so far, which has been little better than a direct insult to the collective intelli­gence of the university. ~ou may be gaining a lot of poi~ts with your conservative buddies and fellow flag-wavers ad nauseum--but you have yet to try to reach out and und:;stan~ those who are not totally with you. At least the CPA ha~ som~­what realized this defect m their approach to the whole spectrum of political, social, and moral issues and has taken some steps to remedy it. In particular, dis­senters were invited and received to the podium Wednesday to speak. I did not hear any of you 
there. 
John E. OReilly 
359 Morrissey Hall 
Christian conscience 
Editor, 
The signed statement by some members of the Theology Facul­ty and by some members_ of the 
G.T.U. that appeared m The Observer on page two of the October 1Oth issue is most inter­esting in the fact that the weight of the statement, it seems to me, lies in . . . "a Christian con­science, informed hy the teach­ings of the Church, e.g. the Pastoral Constitution on 'The Church in the Modern World' and the encyclical 'Peace on Earth' ...". 
A Christian should indeed 'gain clarity concerning immoral­ity' through the study of th_e teachings of the Church. Let It be hoped that we do not pick and choose the teachings of the Church with which we inform our consciences. 
Nowthe encyclical "Humanae Vitae" .... Sincerely yours, Brother Richard Kyle, C.S.C. Moreau Seminary 
University stand Editor: 
The statement signed by a group of faculty and students from the Department of Theolo­gy expressing disappointment "That the University ... did not take a positive stand condemn­ing the Vietnam War". (Ob~en•er, October I0, p. 2) raises Impor­tant issues as to who "the Uni­versity" is, who should speak for it on what issues should they s~eak, and in what manner the position on these issues is to be reached. 
Should the Administration serve as the voice of the com­munity is laying down moral
/-0 ~ 

norms concerning, for example, the immorality of the Vietnam war? Since it is Father Wal~l~'s statement which is being cnti­cized, the implication would seem to be that he should have gone further than encouraging faculty and students to respond to the issues of Moratorium Day as each sees best; he should, in fact, have declared "the im­morality of any continuance of this war". But is this the sort of declaration that one should ex­pect from the Vice-Pr~sid~nt of_ 
Academic Affairs? Is It his busi­ness to pass a moral judgement of this gravity in the name of the whole Notre Dame community? Has anyone any right to pass such a judgement, expecially on an issue which still divides Amer­icans (including members of the 
Notre  Dame  community)  so  
deeply?  
The  statement  goes  on  to  

claim that the time has come when "a Christian conscience, informed by the teachings of the Church" must clearly recognize that to continue the Vietnam war is immoraL But what is one to say of those who refuse to accept this moral assessment? That they are wrong? That they have no right to their views? That they cannot sufficiently have re­flected on the position? If the 
University were to issue a state­ment along the lines re­commended, on what ground could it claim to represent the views of those who disagreed with the statement? The term 'academic freedom' has been hurled across battle-lines so often in recent years that it has lost much of its force. Yet it would seem that in one signifi­cant sense of this phrase, the "academic freedom" of those faculty who sincerely disagreed with the claim that the continu­ance of the Vietnam war is immoral, would be seriously compromised by the University's asserting this claim in their name. 
Why should the "Universi­ty" be called upon to speak as though it were a single individual? There was a time when the Catholic university thought of itself in this way, as though it could decide in authoritative fashion what could be taught, or what moral positions had to be condemned. Surely we have moved a way from all that. Though the signatories of the Ohserl'er statement arc not notably authoritarian in their approach to University struc­t urcs, it is ironic that they should call for a declaration which could become a Unil'er· sill' decl<1ration only by a return to. something like the authori­tarianism of yesteryear. Are not the troubling issues of 
the war a matter for each Chris­tian to ponder in his own mind_ and heart? Js not the moral deci­sion here ultimately an indivi­dual affair, helped, prompte~, even goaded, by wider communi­ties of troubled people? What impulse is it that makes us want to have institutions speak for us? What , for the matter, is it that leads academic men so often to put their names to someth~ng they did not write, and which very well may not express t~e complexity of their own convic­
tions? Admittedly, common ac­
tion is usually more effective 
than individual action; a declara­
tion from a University, or from a 
University department, carries 
more weight than does one from 
a single person. Nevertheless, 
such a declaration must truly 
reflect the moral position of 
those from whom it purports to 
come if it is to be itself a moral 
document. 
Assuming that the Observer 
statement does, in fact, truly 
reflect the position of all those 
who signed it, it is an entirely 
different matter to commit the 
.University as a whole to a decla­
ration, without in this case even 
asking for signatures or suggest­
ing procedures by which such a 
declaration could be validated. It 
seems to me that the Vice­
President's decision to encourage 
faculty and students to make use 
of the Moratorium to examine 
the grounds for their own atti­
tudes towards the Vietnam war 
was, in fact, the authentic 
Christian response from "author­
ity". The decision as to whether 
or not the war is an immoral 
one, or (since this is a less-than­
helpful formulation) as to which 
steps the U.S. is morally obliga­
ted to undertake in the attempt 
to end it, is one that faces each 
of us in the first place as an 
individual. We have delegated it 
long enough to "authorities" 
who claimed to speak for aiL 
Sincerely, 
Ernan McMullin, Chairman 
Department of Philosophy 
Teaching magisterium 
Editor, . 
1 would like to take this op­
portunity to congratulate, the 
members of the Theology facul­
ty and the Graduate Theological 
Union for their recent (Observer, 
October 1O) statement con­
demning the Vietnam War. Whil_e 
I may not agree with all of t_hen 
conclusions it was indeed satisfy­
ing to see their appea_l b~sed 
upon the teaching magistcnum 
of the Church. In addJIIon, the 
appeal to all Catholics to heed 
the writ! en word of our Holy 
Father, the Bishop of Rome, was 
most em:ouraging to those of us 
who have tried to make these 
teachings the basis for our own 
Christian lives. 
I now look forward to a new 
attitude towards the magister­
ium and the Papacy on the part 
of those who signed this state­
ment. I am sure it will he reflect­
ed in their cver-presen t state­
ments in the pop-theology jour­
nals of the day, and I am equally 
sure that this attitude will begin 
to prevail in their classroom le~­
tures, and in their general atti­
tude towards the Church. May 
we now all enter into this 
'second spring' with the same 
enthusiasm that inspired New­
man to react against the excesses 
of his day. 
Sincerely yours, 
A.R. Black Dept. of History St. Mary's College 
_______THE OBSER(IM ____
OCTOBER 20, 1969 PAGE 7 
Grant made for pastoral theology program 
The Frank J. Lewis Founda­The purpose of the program, lish a fruitful p<~storal relation­program will have close connet·­teachers of pastoral theology in tion of Chi~:ago has made a the first at a Catholic university, ship with individuals as well as tions with hehavorial disciplines, seminaries to diocesan super­
$300,000 grant to the University of Notre Dame to support a new dodoral degree program in pas­toral theology. The grant will be awarded over a three-year period. 
will be "to present the recent developments in the field of pastoral care, to give training in a clinical approach to pastoral problems, to provide insights and techniques in order to estab-
Sheedy talks in Boston 
Transplant operations offer no threat to the fate of man's ·munortal soul, the Rev. Charles 
E. Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of Theological Studies and Insti­tutes at the University of Notre Dame, told transplant surgeons and doctors yesterday. 
Speaking at the second annual John F. Kennedy Symposium on "Recent, Signifi~:ant Advances in Medicine and Surgery" at the Muscum of Science in Boston, Sheedy said, "Christians need have no fear that a certain vague­ness about the moment of death will catch (;od unawares." 
lie praised doctors and sur­geons in their efforts to consider the moral and human questions of transplants, rather than sin­gle-mindedly following purely scientific problems. Sheedy serves on the Committee on Ethics of the American llcart Association. 
In fact, he added, the doctor's solicitude and care for :lllman life and for the moral implica­tions of transplants are in them­selves the greatest answers to those who fear that living donors 
will be sacrificed to provide or­gans for transplant operations. "The whole question of ethical 
involvement  can  be said  to  re­ 
duce  itself  to  a  question  of  
attitude," Sheedy said.  

Determining the precise mo­ment of death -a safeguard many legislators and religious philosophers are debating -is really a medical problem, Sheedy continued. The medical profession needs legal safeguards to enable the profession to carry out its own highly responsible guidelines with freedom and confidcm:e," he said. "But one thing the medical profession docs not need is a legal defini­tion of the moment of death." 
In conclusion, Sheedy told the doctors and surgeons to face the difficult decisions of organ transplants with concern for the patient, the donor, and with a determination to serve human­kind. 
Attending the conference were Dr. Joseph E. Murray, who aided in the first kidney trans­plants, and Dr. Norman E. Shumway, who developed many heart transplant techniques. 
ND to study the possible uses of underwater propulsion methods 
If the jet engine has revolu­tionized transportation, why 
couldn't  it  do  the  same  for  
underwater  travel?  
At  the  University  of  Notre  

Dame. two researcht.:rs believe that it may, somt.:day. ll hasn't already, they add, because the ocean is a much more hostile environment to man and his machines than the upper atmos­plll're. 
Drs. Kwang-Tzu Yang and Jerome L. Novotny, professors of aerospace and mechanical en­gineering, explain that under­water jt'ls might he particularly useful in ruwl!rir,g r·~sn:e craft, which must mow quickly to be effective. Eventually, they say, 
jets might power mining, trans­port. or even passenger vehicles, as well as conventional sub­marines. 
Although the concept of jet power is the same under the water as in the ocean, the op­erating details arc significantly different. First of all, Yang and Novotny explain, water is much harder to compress than air. The only way to create an effective "jet" is to turn water to :.;team, and then drive the steam through a nozzle. 
However, sra water is ex­tremely corrosive, and leaves scaly residues ol salt and min­erals as it evaporates. Turning water to steum under deep-ocean pressures, and then expelling the stcllm through a nozzle, may be complicatt:d engineering feats, the two conclude. 
But t'Ven more basic, Yang and Novotny explain, is the doubt that an underwater jet ·d d 
could provt c a equate power to drive a submersible vess\'1 even if 
loped. The two researchers have
recently completed a feasibility study for the Office of Naval 
Research, in which they con-dude the jet could indeed drive 
~~;~~ca~~~~~e~e~;,~if;~ ~~e~~~~e::ceds, 
In their "paper-and-pencil" study, as the two call their theo­retical analysis of the situation, the scientists considered the varyin~ pressures of the ocean altering the character ;tnd force of the jet flow. 
Now. Yang and Novotny arre ready to test their predictions in the laboratory. They plan to observe the pattern and force of an actual ste;tm jet in flowing water, and Sl~e how closely its configuration conforms to their theory under simulated pres­sures. If their expe.riments con­firm their prl•dktions, research­ers across the country will know that the underwater jet is a oossibility, and not a dream. · 
Their feasibility study is fund­ed by the Office of Navy Re­search under "Project Themis," which supports investigations in deep ocean engineering. 
McCarry's Denial 
The Ohservcr in Friday's edi­tion identified ND student Tim Mac Carry as a proponent of the theory that Southeast Asia will with groups, and to stimulate scholarly resl'fach in the field of pastoral theology," according to the Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., chairman of the Notre Dame theology department. 
eventually  fall  under  Chinese  
domination.  
Mar  Carry  denies  that  he  
holds such a belief.  

The new five-year program, which will enroll its first stu­dents in the fall of 1971, will be the fourth doctoral program in the department. Notre Dame now offers the Ph.D. degree in three theological areas -·-bibli­cal studies, historico-systemic theology, and liturgical studies. 
"With the pastoral function of the Church currently under severe criticism," Father Burtchaell wmmentcd, "it is an opportune time to inaugurate such a program. A I though our it should be understood as theo­logy and stimulate !he student to bring to he<~r all his I hcologi­eal undt.:rstanding on the pastor­al work with his fellowman." 
The program will emphasize clinical pastoral work in institu­tions such as hospitals or pri­sons, and this pastoral work will be closely supervised, Father Burtchasell said. The program will be open to men and women, clergy and laity, Cat holies and Protest ants, but it is expected 
that initially the large share of students will be Catholic priests. 
"We expect that students who are graduated from the program will find their way into a variety of profession:tl positions, from visors for parish clergy engaged in pastoral work," Father 
Burtchaell said. 
The Frank J. Lewis founda­t ion has built hot h the hus shell­er and Lewis llall Residence at Notre Dame. The late Frank J. Lewis, a Chicago businessman and philanthropist who died in I960, received a doctor of Ia ws degree from Notre Dame in 1954 at the same ceremonies in which his son, Ftlward, received his bachelor's degree. Mrs. Frank"' 
J. Lewis, who died in I 9(>6, was awarded a doctor of fine arts degree in 1962. Edward D. Lewis, now t•xct·utivc director of the Foundalion, is a member of Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters Advisory Council. 
Graduate students attend seminar 
Two University of Notre Dame graduate students will at­tend a conference culled "The Environment and the Developing Professional," sponsored by the Institute for llealth and Sodety, October 23 26. 
Joe Pavloni and Dick Murley, both graduate students in civil engineering, will be among eight engineering students invited to 
participate in the three-day con­fercnce at Airlie House, in War­rington, Va. 
At the conference, stu­
100 dents in disciplines ranging frot;l 
law and medicine to administ­ration und journalism will dis­cuss problems threatening the 
environment, and submit a form­al proposal on solutions at the conclusion of the conference. 
Some of the topics will in-dude air pollution, solid waste 
disposal, food contamination, and rat control. On returning from Virginia, Pavloni and Mur-Icy will lead a seminar for civil 
engineers detailing their conclu­sions. 
The Institute for Health and in civil engineering next summer. 
Society will sponsor two other His research concerns biological 
conferences in the next several, organisms used to remove chemi­
months, one on "The Population cals from sewage. Murley will be 
l·:xplosion" in November, and graduated with a master's dcgre~ 
a not her on "Racial Discrimina­in February. His thesis is on the 
tion" in February. solid waste problem in St. 
Pavloni will obtain his Ph. D. Joseph County, Indiana. 
ND is big med school supplier 
The University of Notre Dame is one of 19 premedical schools which consistently supply a large 
proportion of freshmen to med­ical schools across the country, 
the Association of American Medical Colleges ( AAMC) rc­ported recently. 
In a six-year study of pre­medical schools, the AAMC rc­ported that the top 25 pre­medical schools, comprising only 
three per cent of the under­graduate schools supplying one or more medical students, pro­vided 28 percent of the enteringfreshman classes at medical in­stitutions. Of these 25, Notre which consistently provided a major portion of the new en­Irants. 
The AAMC report also show­ed that the University's pre­medical· graduates had increased markedly over the six years, raising its rank from 25th in 1960 to II th in 1966. 
Of the 19 institutions con­sistently ranked in the top 25 suppliers of medical students, I 0 arc privately supported, while nine arc tax supported. Seven arc in the northeast, seven in the north central, two in the southern, and three in the western regions of the country. 
the Icchnique could he devc-,-------------------=--__:.:_:.:..:..:...:..:=:_.:._:.....:..:.:..:..:..:..:..:...:.:..:::..:..::_____________--, Dame was among 19 institutions 

{t/f u~tom 1Leatlucr @~~ 
~ ' ob~ 
~
:mab ~ to OUl. Q&rb ~r 
~ . ~ ~anbal~ 

belt~  
tuattbbanb~  
.. "1u~ t ~bc;ut" euerptbiug  , tn  antiqur.s  
jr\uelrp 

tbis picture is for sa It at: 
lLratbcr JLtb. 
118 ~outb ~ain ~trcct 
~--------.-~------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

OCTOBER 20, 1969
PAGE 8 
----·---------------------'-­
Ara •• It was a hell of a game 
by Don Kennedy 
year," said McKay," they have a Dame ten-yard line by SC's But the second half was a Young's throat. McCoy's play
Observer Sports Writer 
good defensive line." Evans. 2) a holding penalty totally different game. From the had been excellent all day. 
Saturday night on a But in the Irish coaches's nullifying a 15 yard touchdown kickoff the Irish drove seventy Coach McKay had only one W B B M-Chicago sports show, locker room there was no priase, run by halfback Clarence Davis, four yards in eleven plays, with comment for him in his ex-Irish coach Frank Leahy no joy. No one spoke for a few and 3) the timely errant passes Bill Barz cracking over center for post-game interview: "We'll be (whose past shows have been minutes, but the silence and the by soph Trojan quarterback the ice-breaker. Taking the cue glad to sec him graduate." hardly appreciative of Irish play pain etched in the faces of Jimmy Jones, the Irish were still from Notre Dame, quarterback this season) stated that "except Coaches Parseghian and Pagna well in the game by the start of Jones drove the Trojans right 
With the Irish in possessionfor the weakness of an inept pass seemed to say "We should have the second half. If statistics can back, tying the game on 18 
won we it an thanks to McCoy the SC 7,
defense, today (last Saturday) it, came so dose be interpreted, one need not yard strike to Terry DeKraai at 
one began to wonder if yetNotre Dame proved themselves just doesn't seem fair." But have an interprcter to sec just who managed to free himself another stellar defensive playto be truly a great team." In a perhaps Ara and the boys were how far out of it the Irish were from four Irish defenders in the was forthcoming. It appeared so,post-game interview, Southern thinking only in terms of the in the first half. The Notre Dame end zone. 
as three Irish thrusts could notCalifornia's Coach John McKay second half. "offense" gained a sum total of crack the stiff Trojan line. Buthad nothing but praise for the Obviously outclassed in the 35 yards, only five of which on fourth down Theismann wentIrish squad who had again first half, the Irish were lucky to were garnished on the ground, Then the defense took over to Allen who sliced through thethwarted his hopes for an make it through the first thirty and punted eight times. the play. Billed as strictly an left side for what became theundefeated season. "They were minutes alive. But thanks to: I) offensive display with Jones, game's last score.
the best team we've played aU a kt:y fumble inside the Notre Davis and Co. battling the forces of Jersey Joe (some even picked the score as high as 35-31 ), few With the Trojans giving up the expected the repeated excellent football on a 22 yard punt by defensive maneuvers by both Young (apparently Mr. Young teams. The true battle, although still had visions of his previous displayed to a degree in the first "punt", causing him to rush a half, really came into its own poorly kicked ball) the Irish had after>'~"~-touchdown drive. The excellent field position on their swiftness and deft pursuit of the own 44 with a mere 4:47 Trojan line particularly that of remaining on the clock. Four end Jim (;unn and linebacker plays later it was third and four (;reg Slough (who finished the on the SC 30. On the following day with sewn solo tackles and play Jersey Joe became "Fran t•lcven assists) well-contained the the Man" ashe scrambled for 16 Irish running game and yards to the Trojan 14 and what succeeded in dumping appeared to be well within the Theismann for a minus fifteen range of Scot l ~kmpel's toe. But yard total in rushing yards. as Dewey Poskon put it in the Fit tingly. the next scoring play locker room after the game: "I came through the aid of the turned around and saw flags on defensive squad. With the ground: I couldn't believe Thdsmann rushing his pass to it 1" Poskon 's dip sci the stage l~d Ziegler in the left flat, for the play that the boys at Tyrone Hudson stepped inside McSorley's will L.llk about for of Ziegler and 'picked off the years to come. pass and returned it to the Notre Dame I 5 yard line . .I ones wasted Number 52 stepped onto the no time as on l he second play he field receiving a none too found Sam Dickerson in the left favorable reaction from the corner of the end zone with one studnt·t cheering section. When of his few perfect pa~ses of the ht• walked off he received a afternoon. standing ovation. lkmpel's kick, 
"the farthest l'w ever tried", hit the crossbar 32 inches right of Not to be outdone, the Irish center and a mere l wo inches 
defensive squad turned in its short of touching off the wildest gem of the afternoon. The play celebration this campus has ever itself was indicative of lht'' drive seen. 
and determination of a squad that had held celebrated running Asked if he was satisfie-d withback Clarence Davis to only 75 the 14-14 lie, Coach McKay
yards in 30 carries. Th<t, slats fans, is only a 2.5 yards ;')er had o11ly a one word comment: carry average. Compare that to "No." Ara didn't really the 5.9 average he held coming comment on satisfaction with a into the game and any amateur tic, but although he never said it
The best offense is a good ... 
can see the job the Irish linemen it was obvious in the locker performed. As the Trojan's room that his reaction was the
usc ND 
Gatewood 2 13 0 punter John Young dropped same as McKay's. The Irish
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 15 11 
Ziegler 1 16 0
Rushing Attempts 43 50 back to punt on his own 33, could have been down 14-0 at PUNTING NO AVG
NET YARDS RUSHING 103 90 defensive stalwart Mike McCoy the half. Hempel's attempt could 
Passes Attempted 35 19 rushed through, leapt high with have been 2.01 inches higher.
PUNT RETURNS NO YDS
Completed 11 11 arms outstretched and just about And they're complaining of a tie
Lewallen 1 8Had Intercepted 0 1 
rammed the ball back down game ... 
McCoy 1 25NET YARDS PASSING 116 113 KICKOFF RETURNS NO YDSTotal Plays 78 69 Crotty 1 22TOTAL OFFENSE 219 203 Allan 1 14Interceptions 1 0 
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIAIntercept Yards Returned 25 0 
RUSHING ATT NET YDS TOPUNTS-Number Blocked 10·1 10-0 Davis 30 75 0AVERAGE 34.0 33.4 
Jones 5 10 0Punts Returned 6 3 Evans 5 11 0
YARDSPUNTSRETURNED 33
24 
Berry 3 7 0Kickoffs Returned 3 2 PASSING ATT COMP INT YDS TDYARDS KICKOFFS RETURNED 27 36 Jones 34 11 0 116 2Number of Penalties 4 3 
Fassel 1 0 0 0 0
YARDS PENALIZED 37 45 
FUMBLES-LOST 3·2 1-0 RECEIVING NO YDS TD 
DeKraii 3 35 1 NOTRE DAME 0 0 7 
7 14 Chandler 3 29 0 SOUTHERN CAL 0 
0 7 7 14 Dickerson 2 32 1 SCORING Orcutt 12 0 NO: Barz 1 RUN, Hempel kick. Mullins 9 0 USC: Dickerson 14 PASS from Jones, Ayala kick. Evans -1 0 USC: DeKraii 18 PASS from Jones, Ayala kick. PUNTING NO AVG NO: Allan 1 RUN, Hempel kick. Young 8 38.8 
Ayala 1 30
NOTRE DAME Affected by the roll of paper or not, SC's Lou Harris still dropped
Team( Blocked) 1 0
RUSHING ATT NET YDS TD this pass from quarterback Jimmy Jones. 
~ 
PUNT RETURNS NO YDSZiegler 15 51 0 
Allan 16 25 1 Durko 4 ~0 Hudson 2 4 KICKOFF RETURNS NO YDS 
Barz 8 29 1 Theismann 11 -15 0 PASSING ATT COMP INT YDS TD 
Davis 1 13 Theismann 19 11 1 113 0 
Rollinson 8 RECEIVING NO YDS TD Harris 1 6 Poskon 5 53 0 
INTERCEPTION RETURNS NO YDS 
Barz 3 Hudson 1 25
31 0 



