

VOL IV, No: ~·--;:;-:t:-r-------------;:S:-e,-v~i:-n-t-:~-IC.....,.N..,..(-Jf-reDame 
.. • THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1969 
Meeting discusses Nov. Moratorium 
by Brother Patrick Carney . . . , .
participants in a March Against filled coffin to President Nixon. concert wtll ftmsh off the days coun~ry to be . destroyed 111 
Well over one hundred stu­Death. Each member will carry a Plans for the following day activities. Washmgton. Whtle the latter dents gathered in N ieuw land placard with the name of one of originally included a march from When this announcement was would definitely be a violati~"n Hall last night to organize a the war dead on it. He will the Capitol to the Ellipse behind greeted by hissing on the part of of the law, the idea of mass has special Notre Dame contingent march with his placard from the the White House. Since this a large number of those in atten-been treated in recent court to participate in the November Arlington National Cemetary to would result in almost surround-dance, Karen Weller briefed cases and decisions have been moritorium proceedings in Wash­the White House where he will ing the White House, the Secret those who preferred to use civil favorable to the idea. ington. read the name aloud. Service requested a change of disobedience tactics. She offered Potential marchers were ad-
Beginning on November 13, From there, the marcher will plans. a few words on the idea of , vised of their legal rights and the the group plans to join with continue to the capitol where Present plans for Saturday's opposing legalism with human fact that there would be legal as similar organizations from the placards will be placed in a activities were announced as be-rights and suggested activities well as medical aid stations scat-around the country in providing <;offin. Plans are to return the ginning with a procession filter-similar to the destruction of tered throughout the route. 
ing up three separate streets to draft cards which took place Shelley Smith, herself a veter-the Monument and around the here in October. an of many previous marches, reflecting pool. There five to ten Her other ideas included th·e gave instructions regarding ap­
Davey, Hunter quit 
speeches will be given, a collec-possibility of a mass at the Pen-pr~priate attire for the trip. She tion to support the day's endeav-lagon and the gathering of draft pomted out that accomodation 
by T.C. Treanor and Tom Ehrbar 
ors will be taken up and a Jazz records from various parts of the (continued 011 page 2) 
Stay senators Rich Hunter, 
Senators by Student Body A k f 
two-term incumbent, and Ed 
PresidentPhiiMcKenna.Inthat 
stronaut 00 s to uture
Davey, Chairman of the Finance letter, McKenna said, in part. "I 
1 
Subcommittee, resigned their have never been, nor do I now by Mark Walbran positions in the senate within intend to be, a strict advocate of NAS!\ astronaut Dr. Robert the last two days. parliamentary procedure... " A. Parker said last night that 
In his press release Mr. Hunter "There is one thing that I will man's first lunar landing is said in part; not tolerate in thie year's history. He told a large ''Because of the recent Senate...the usage of political a u d i e n c e in the library developments in the Senate. and and/or parlimentary bullshit. If auditorium that future lunar 
because of what I see to be 
you intend to play games all landings may seem like old news basic and distin<.:t differences in year -then please resign; if not to the public. He predicted that opinion between myself and the let us he about serious soon the news from Houston President, I have concluded that business," McKenna said. will no longer rival "Petticoat my continuance as chairman of Hunter called the letter a Junction." the Student Affairs Committee "direct insult to the integrity of "But there is still much to be 
is neither desirable nor in the 
the Sen<Jte and the personal done," said Parker, "both best interests of the Student 
;ntegrity of myself." outside the space program and in Senate," he said. 
Stay senator Ed Davey it." Hunter said that his 
likewise submitted his Briefly tracing human resignation was motivated in resignation yesterday. Davey progress both in and outside of part by a letter sent to all the 
said "my various obligations as technology, the 32 year old cabinet member, full-time Jstronomer recalled the SupremeGatewood victim student, and stay-senator have Court's desegregation ruling of taken me beyond my 1954, Dr. Salk's polio
of campus attack capabilities." Davey is Public vaccination, and jet passenger '-Jim Hunt Relations Director for student travel.
Notre Dame starting split end Astronaut Dr. Robert A. Parker speaking last night. 
government; and is also involved "Things have come a long
Tom Gatewood was admitted to 
the Notre Dame infirmary last in Farley's hall-fellow program. way," he said. from such space stations will be could be readily known, he said, Davey expressed concern for Parker turned to space
night after being physically both relevant and useful to as could nany incidents of crop attacked. the evolving Notre Dame technology and recalled that it society. The rapid capability of infection. community and stated "I just was only II years ago when the surveying the earth from space, To critics of the space
According to Art McFarland, thought the halls should take first satellite was launched.
A fro-A me rica n Society he said, both with color program, Parker said, stoppingP r e cede n c e.'' He a Is o After showing a film of the photography and infra-red
I' r e s i d e n t , G a t e w o o d w as research now would reduce the 
acknowledged a certain Apollo II lunar landing, Parker sensing, will allow scientists to
<Jltacked by a group of whites lunar landing to a $24 billion 
frustration with the senate's said that to him the moon shot pin point immediately areas of
while walking across campus. stunt. 
recent handling of allocations seemed very familiar, after natural resources.
McFarland claimed that this "By advancing technology in and funds. As a member of the having seen it so many times in From color photographs of
was the fourth campus attack on general, and particularly in this fin<Jnce committee, Davey was science fiction movies. the earth shot by the Apollo II
c;atewood this year. Gatewood area of earth resources, the space
keenly disappointed that the Parker said that in the trio. Parker said potential oil
had been shot at once on effort can improve all mankind. 
budget was expanded beyond its immediate future the emphasis fields were detected in Australia,
campus in an earlier attack as To pull back now after we have
original recommendations. in the space program will be in and new copper mines were
well as after the Tulane game. 
shown how space can be useful
"We're just goint to go back orbital space stations. He said discovered in Arizona.
Attempts to contact security would be analgous to stopping
again to where we started this thae first station is scheduled for Parker said that this surveying
to gain details fo he incident research a vaccine
on after
year," he said. March 1972. capability could also be used to 
were futile. Officials at the 
experiments had shown its
Davey specifically mentioned Rapid changes in space increase food production for the
infirm<Jry when contacted potential use," he said.
that The Observer was granted technology, said Parker, cause world's increasing population.
<Jlluded to G<Jtewood's presence Parker said that soon the era
greater funds than he thoughf impatience in other fields. From space the water
hut would give no further details 
of glamor and excitement in the 
was necessary. However he said that research distribution in fields of crops
on his condition. 
space program will be gone. In• • • the coming era space will he a "useful tool" of society, he said. lie added that in this coming by Tom Bornholdt from the position last Friday. With respect to his new office, Union by the Student Senate. era we shall see the justification 
Monnich had previously ser­he plans "continuation of the He said that the marginal cuts of the space program. 
Monnich selected new serv1ces comm1ss1oner 

Jol:n Monnich has been select­
ved as the Business Manager of job that Robert Pohl set up." made in the budget would not
ed as the new Student Union 
Student Union Publications. He While sympathizing with hamper the organization's pro­Services Commissioner. He will was appointed by Student Union · Pohl's resignation and admitting jected program.
replace Bob Pohl who resigned 
Director Dennis Clark, in con­the position required a great deal 1 Ie specifically praised the sultation with Tito Trevino, Stu­of time and effort, Monnich said Student Sen<Jte's giving the Stud­dent Union Associ<Jte Director. he did not foresee any reason­ent Union its funds as i.l whole, They both felt that Monnich ably possible circumstances for­instead of the previous policy of was highly qualified for the posi­cing his own resignation. appropriating a budget for each 
tion of Student Services Com­Tito Trevino took up Pohl's commission of the Student missioner. They cited his excel­job temporarily, but admitted Union. lent work as Business Manager. that the very heavy p<Jce of the lie said this increased flexibili­
his intimate k.nowledge of the work would he too much for ty would allow the Student Services Commission. his basic him to permanently h<Jmlle to­Union to clwnncl funds to activi­agreement with l'ohl on Com­gether with his role as Stltlknt ties i.JS their neL·ds develop and mission Policy, and, <Jbove all, Union Associate Director. He would result in significant saving 
"his very good business sense", felt that Monnich will he quite of money, while improving the capable of carrying on the pro­quality of services. lie said this
the reasons for Monnich's 
selection. gress made under Pohl. 
<tdded flexibility \1 lid improve Monnich commented on the thc chmH.:es of ccrt<Jin servicL'S

Monnich is an off-campus sen­John Monnich ior and <Jn Accounting M<Jjor. 
budget i.JIIoted to the Student <Jctually making money. 


DeSaplo to resign 
Guy De Sapio, Ohserper editor stated yesterday that he would announce his resignation at the staff meeting on Friday at 4:30. 
"There are a numb'er of factors that have influenced my decision and I would like to he able to relate them to the staff before the rest of the community. I hope that the entire staff will be there," De Sapio said. 
PAGE 'L THE OBSDWER. THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1969 
•



Hall Life Board •1ssues warn1ng; 
Ed Roickle 

S. I. Hayakawa

seven halls cited for violations 
by Don Ruane 
An investigation and inter­views by the Hall Life Board along with several complaints in the last few weeks, has led to a warning for seven halls in regard to their parietal procedures. 
Ron Mastriana, executive co­ordinator of the Hall Presidents Council, said the HLB has recei-

Ron Mastriana 

CHARLIE'S 
STEREO TAPE PRICES 
I wanna give 'em away, but my wife won't let me 

LIST CHARLIE'S PRICE PRICE 
3.98 3.49 4.9~ 4.39 5.98 5.29 6.98 5.88 7.98 6.89 8.98 7.79 9.98 8.59 10.98 9.49 11.98 10.39 12.98 1 1.19 13.98 11.99 
II USE IOUI Bill! :;.e 
,,[,tiiii#Lt~w' 
OPEN OAILY 9-6 
SAT. 9a.m. to 5p.m. 
PH. 287•7218 

774 Lincoln Way East 
ved complaints from several hall Mastriana stressed that an­
rectors and rector assistants con­other investigation would be 
cerning the conduct of other conducted after the tenth to be 
halls. The hoard began an inves­sure that all the halls are follow­
tigation of the parietal proce­ing the established parietal rules. 
dures of each hall on campus "The purpose of the Hall Life 
and found seven halls violating Board is to help the halls along 
the sign-in and/or the twenty­and to make sure that everything 
hour four visitation limit. is working as it should," em­
On Monday, the hoard sent a phasized Mastriana. 
letter to each hall instructing He also said that the Hall 
them to correct the situation by Presidents Council is presently 
November I 0 or face a suspen­taking action to revise the parie­
sion of parietals. The letter tal system. 
also reminded each hall of the The halls cited by the HLB 
rules it set for itself in the hall and in danger of having their 
constitution it submitted to the parietals suspended are: Holy 
HLB last spring, according to Cross, Dillon, Walsh, Alumni, 
Flanner, Carroll, and Morrissey.
Mastriana. 
•






Meet on moratorium 
(continued from page I) 
will be provided, but that these 
the Peace Fellowship Wednesday will generally tend to be on hard 
evening. Present plans call for floors of churches and similar 
two Anglican Bishops and a buildings. 
number of Catholic priests to After pointing out that the 
participate in the inter demoni­marchers should refrain from 
national service. 
bringing anything that they 
After reading his statement cannot afford to lose, she 
for the benefit of the invited suggested comfortable clothes 
FBI agents which is reportedand advised female participants 
elsewhere in this paper, Mr. to wear their hair in a bun and 
Douglas announced the Notre avoid ear rings if they have 
Dame Resistance buttons will pierced ears because of the 
soon be available. The blue but­danger involved when these are 
tons with a gold omega and NO pulled while being arrested. 
will be distributed next week. 
Among the other pieces of At the close of the meeting advice given to those in attend­arrangements were made to pro­ance was to carry bail money vide rides for those who could pinned to their underwear and not afford them although those to bring a handkerchief and who could were encouraged to small bottle of water for use in pay the $25 for the bus trip case the police resort to chemi­which will include special rap cal means of riot prevention. sessions on the way. 
Students were particularly In addition, those interested 
warned against using drugs or in acting as marshals were asked even carrying with them into the to attend a training session city. 
which will be run by some ex­
Jim Douglas Chairman of the perienced people from Chicago 
Program on Non-Violence clari­at the Resistance House at 1036 
fied the issue of the mass at the N. Niles on Sunday afternoon. 
Pentagon and invited those in­The time is tentatively scheduled 
terested to attend a meeting of for about I p.m. 
Th1s weekend one S.I. Hayakawa will lecture on semantics to the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Community. For the uninitiate Webstn defines semantics as "2. the scientific study of the relations between signs, or symbols, and what they mean, or denote, and of behavior in its psychological and so cia logical aspects as it is influenced by signs." It is interesting to note some of the more public examples of Hayakawa's behavior during the student faculty strike at San Francisco State last Spring. The following quotes are taken from On Strike Shut It Down put out by the S.F. State Strike Committee. 
"On the first day of Hayakawa's reign, he attacked the Strike 
Support Committee's sound truck which was parked on a street in 
front of the schooL He climbed on the roof and pulled out the wires 
on the speakers, pushing and shoving students who gathered to 
protest his actions." 
·:Hayakawa tried hard to break the strike. He has banned public 
ralhes.-The TWLF (Third World Liberation /Front) however held 
rallies almost daily-not to defy the denials of fre: speech, hut to 
keep the momentum of the strike growing. The rallies in Dec. drew 
thousands of people who had been won to supporting the 15 
?emands. Further, he hired a public relations man to improve his 
Image and thmk up groovy gimmicks. One such gimmick was to pass 
out bl~e armbands to the students. The excuse behind this was that 
the "s.~l~nt majority" could express sympathy with the demands but 
oppo~ItJOr, to violence. Not only was this so-called majority silent 
but _1t ~as invisible. Only a couple of hundred 'hard-cor~ 
reactwnanes' wore them. The racist reality of the armbands was that 
the w,earers_ wer~n 't sympathetic to anything but the cops. They 
weren t agamst vwlence c1ther-they would point out the leaders to 
the cops, pick a fight with a striker and then lead him to the pigs. 
'Yha_t the bl,ue armbands, and the 'Committee for an Academic 
Env~ronment who pushed them, did was to bring tfore about 100 
fasctst 'Hayakawa Youth.' They have been easily exposed and 
denounced by the Strike Support Comm. 
"Hayakawa's most effective weapon during the month of 
December was his _unflinch~ng, gleeful use of the police. Only 250 
were deployed dunng h1s first day, in an unsuccessful attt:mpt to 
break up a rally of 4,000. However, he quickly escalated the forces 
to _600, With 1000 m ready reserve. During his entire 13 weeks of 
off1ce~ the cops have constantly occupied the campus to harrass 
terronze, beat and arrest students. To date, over 600 people hav~ 
been arrested. After Tuesday Dec. 3, the bloodiest day of the 
~tru_ggle.' (cops and students f~u.ght for three hours), Hayakawa said: 
This has been the most exc1tmg time of my life since my tenth 
birthday_ wh~n I rode the roller coaster for the first time.' This pol' . 
terror fa1led to break the strike " ICC 
Be~ides the above incidents ·Hayakawa has indulged in red-baiting and hbe_lo~s att~cks on those participating in the strike. His racist paternahstic attitudes towards Third World strikers has provoked mdignatwn. on t~e part of Third World people and reaction in the general whtte n11ddle class population. He banned all community members f;om t~e. sta~e (~copies?) campus in an attempt to stifle the people s partJclpatJOn m supporting the 15 demands. In short Hayaka~a has been a perfect puppet for the Sacramento fascists whose Ignorant and oppressive attitudes towards education the Thtrd World, and the poor is almost legendary. ' 
When Hayakawa _speaks here this weekend, it will be interesting to note what these s1gns and symbols are which he relates to one another. Judgmg from the psychological and socialogical aspects of h1s past behavwr, these signs and symbols may be grunts and squeals rbather than something now used for communication among human 
emgs. 

SMC curfew changes possible 
At Tuesday night's meeting of the SMC Student Assembly a preliminary motion to change curfew policy for second semester freshmen was un.animously passed. The proposed change would mean no 
COM£ TO THE 




SADIE HAWKINS DANCE 
November 7 9 till 1 a.m. Indiana Club Music by the "Magnificent Seven" Tickets on Sale. at SM.C. Dining Hall 
hours for second semester 
fresh men with parental approvaL 
Presently, college policy is one 
of curfews for freshmen and no. 
hours for upperclassmen with 
parental approvaL The motion 
will go to the Student Affairs 
Committee for further action. 
The group also passed a motion to drop the requirement that the office of vice-president of the Student Assembly be held by a senior. This involves a change in the student procedurial manuaL 
This requirement for the office of president was not changed. 
A motion to raise the salaries of the maids by directing the profits made from guest fees was also discussed and passed. The proposal will go to the Student Affairs Committee for further action. The Assembly felt that ~uch a raise would hopefully Improve the already u n de rs ta ffe d situation by providing the maids with the incentive to remain. 
Two procedurial motions were discussed and passed to clarify hall council· procedure: hall council meetings be open, and, Assembly senators will henceforth vote as members of their respective hall councils. 
~------------------------------------­
PAGE 3

THE OBSERJJER.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1969 
Father Sheedy moved by Goerner's criticisms 
by Paul Gallagher 
Father Charles Sheedy, Chairman of the Experimental College Subcommittee of t11e Curriculum Revision Committee (CRC) was contacted by The OBSERVER yesterday for reaction to a seven page letter sent to him by Professor Edward Goerner. 

In the letter sent to Sheedy on October 22, but made public only recently, the popular political theorist indicated that he had given up hopes for his St. Thomas Moore proposal outlined last spring and leveled such widespread criticism concerning the direction in which he felt that the university as a whole was heading, that people wondered if he had not given up on Notre Dame in 
general. 
Except for updating some information on the state of the experimental program proposals, Fr. Sheedy declined to take issue with Goerner's letter. "There is nobody around here that I revere and love more than Edward Goerner. A hove all, I don't want this thing to put any wedges between Mr. Goerner and me," said Sheedy. 
Sheedy went on to point out that the sketchy recommenda­tions of his subcommittee had not been approved by the CRC and that therefore the sophomore year program outlined in The OBSERVER had not been approved. 
Instead, he said, the CRC agreed to make a much less specific recommendation to the Academic Council -one which in effect would merely recommend that an experimental education program should be developed and 
implemented  for  the  1970-71  
shcool year if possible.  
This  would  mean,  at  least  
structurally,  that  radical  

proposals such as Mr. Goerner's could still be discussed and approved. However, Sheedy did not suggest that the CAP director had misread the winds about the chances that his proposal would be accepted. 
·the thrust of Goerner's broader 
criticisms. 
Instead, Sheedy gave the 

impression that words from a 
person of the calabre of 
Professor Goerner should not be 
argued against, but reflected on 
and taken to heart. 
If the Academic Council 

accepts the CRC recommenda­
tion, the development of an 
experimental college program 
will be moved out of the hands 
of the subcommittee of which 
he is chairman, said Fr. Sheedy. 
Such duties would go to one 
of the university's 
vice-presidents, and, most likely, 
the vice-president would develop 
his own committee to work the 
program out. 
Neither did he attempt to lessen
~'~'~"' ~~~~!.~i~~~.~.~ng dra~~~~;~~~~~~;,~~
Chairman of the Notre Dame Earher m the day the ~ Bl tt . t" f tl · 
.d pa ems are a vto1a 10n o 1e1r
Institute for the Study and office was reported to have sat f d ', Practice of Non-Violence, issued that they would not attend the reSehomt.I ft . 

Cru{tsmcn in Opt~·{
· f . or y a e r con1ac1mg
a second public statement o meetmg. The agent who had D W d d · 
1

purpose in behalf of the seven been in contact with the group tl oug as t e nesd ax t morn;ngt 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGl.ASSES AND CONT4CT LfNS:£S 
members of the Notre Dame -a Mr. King-was not present at Tle ageMn Cprocee e oOcbon ac 
, . . 1m ac arry, an server 
fHE SHERLAND BLDG.··132 S. MICHIGAN ST.··I~l::1tral ~-14l\l·
Resistance Group who tore up the meetmg last mght. C · t d f th 
, o1umms an one o e
draft cards at October 15th s The calls from the FBI agent . f th C .t. f 
· f" orgamzers 0 e oa1I lOll or
Moratorium Day Mass. . began Monday evenmg. The trst Political Action and Karen The statement, read at last to be contacted was Professor W SMc' senior who
11
night's CPA meeting, came as a Peter Smith, a mathematician at . e e,~· tad 
. tmp tea e herself at the
result of the efforts by the St. Mary's College. Smtih agreed M t · e e nony by 
Main Office: 13~ N. Wabash Ave.··ChicaQn 
ff. f I'BI 1 . h h ora ortum c r 1
South Bend o tceo 1 o durtng t e te ep one · 1. D in the
t1e; 1 
. . ·u . lk FBI assts tng oug 1as
obtain personaI mtervtews WI 1 conversation to t~ WI .111· destruction of his card. ~ndividual members _of the group C?,fficials an~ rece~ved the two MacCarry was stricken with m hopes.of md~cm_g the~ to ~ BI agents mto _hts home early an acute attact of appendicitis wa1ve. thetr constitutiOnal nghts Tuesday mornmg. However, and taken to St. Joseph hospital 

ANewLeather
and stgn statements. between the tune the agents not long after the call and was 
The draft card tearers refused talked to Smtih on Monday there fore not available for to cooperate with the agent, the night and the Tuesday morning comment. statement pointed out, "because meeting, the bearded professor According to Miss Weller, the 
for Fashionwe be I i eve that se ere t talked to his lawyer and other agent not only asked her for a investigative processes are members of the draft resistance personal interview and a themselves a means of fear and group and decided not to g9. statement, but attempted to intimidation, existing within the through with the interview. explain why such statements same system of coercion as the Professor Douglas was the were necessary in view of the Selective Service System does. second member of the resistance concise statement the group Such processes are, the resistors group to be contacted by the presented at the Moratorium. maintain, "in flat contradiction FBI, he described the attempt of "He said that a private to a democratic and open the official to obtain a personal conference was needed because society." interview with him as "part of in a public one they couldn't 
Instead, the resistors invited the whole psychology of fear obtain the waver of rights that 
the FBI agent to attend tonight's evident in the tapping of Martin they would in a private one," 
public met'ting where the group Luther King's telephone and the said the perky coed. "I told him 
...by _l)g~~
would make a statement. In this meetings held with Doctor that we had sent the signed way, said the draft card tearers, Spoke urging him to stop his statement to the Attorney they would be consistent with draft resistance work." Such General's office," she continued, the view that "the way of tactics, according to the notable "but he said he hadn't received non-violence is the way of OJ1L'n spokesman on Non-Violence, them back yet." and public encounter." 
Further in the statement, the 
group confirmed the fact that 
OBSERVER Staff Meeting
they did indeed tear up their 
draft cards, and this "in witness 
of non-violent resistance to the 
For a II personnel 
continuing slaughter in 
Vietnam." 
"We demand once again", the 
statement continued, "that the 
US (;overnment either recognize 
the truth in Vietnam and cease 
Friday at 4:30 
its killing or that it inflict 
suffering on us for openly 
hreaking the law which enforces 
STUDENT UNION presents 

CHALET HOI.IDA Y 
the softly flecked fashion leather that complements
(A Sid Venture In Colorado) 
the lighter tans and olives of today's colorful styles. Distinctive. Contemporary. A MUST for the coordi· nated wardrobe. British Tan ... by Douglas.
included in trip: 
I) 6 days/5 nights in Colorado's best ski area 
2) Motel and swimming facilities near nightclub area 
CHECKS WELCOr.1E WITH I.D. 
J) Ski lift tickets 
4) Air transportation from Chicago to Denver 
5) Bus transport a lion from Denver to Steamboat Springs 
BECKER'S MEN'S SHOES 
for information (.:all:7757 
8991 

108 S. Michigan St. 
at St. Mary's 4545 






THE OBSERVER. 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1969 
--------· -----~. 
. ~ 

.1 /GEE, I DUNNO W~ICH l 
1

THE OBSERVER 
ONETO IURN LOOSt .... 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
WHY DO N~1 WE SEE: WHAT DONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Publisher GAETANO DE SAPIO. Editor THE MAJO~ITY SAYS?
····· \f-

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Voting age 
The rejection of voters of New Jersey and Ohio of referendums to lower 
the voting age to I 8 and 19 respectively is regrettable to say the least. 
In New Jersey, figures show the proposal was losing by over 300,000 votes 
with I ,500,000 votes counted. The Ohio proposal was fairing a little better 
vote wise. 

The New Jersey referendum was supported enthusiastically by both 
candidates for governor. Most local and state officials campaigning for office 
fostered their support. Prominent educational and civic groups also 
supported the proposal. Student groups throughout the state were out in full 
force campaigning for the proposal. 
No doubt a large part of the overt support for the referendum by 
politicians was due to their respect for the student movement and their fear 
of the future political reprecussions of not supporting today what would 
someday be a viable voting segment of society. 
The fear of students, however, was mirrored in the vote against the 
proposal but in a different way. The results of the referendum in both states 
showed the tragic impact of the publicity that has surrounded the student 
movement in America. 

The one impression that sticks in the minds of the segment of the 
population which now has franchise is the violence which has surrounded so 
many student protests. Many adults look upon it as irresponsibility -and 
irresponsibility that they fear may be mirrored at the polls should students 
be allowed to vote. 

While it is senseless to justify the violence that has taken place at many 
times during protest it is a shame that voters were not able to look past it to 
the deeper reasons for demonstrations in the first place. 
There are many things wrong with American society -evils not only acknowledged by students, but by many adults as well. Students are concerned about changing those things. They are prohibited from participating in the national channels of government and so in many instances have taken to the streets to manifest not only their concern for change, but their alienation from the structure itself. 
It would have been wise to begin now to break down the barriers to student participation in the American system. Students have a legitimate right to franchise. Perhaps if the violent confrontations that have characterized student manifestations of concern did not occur students could get closer to the goal that they sought. We regret that the older generation has failed to look deep enough into the whole problem -but the whole situation is a two-way street. 
Comment on yesterday 
The Senate move .Jast night increasing the appropriations of a number of 
campus organizations is a wise one. We realize that a large number of 
students deplored the fiscal policies of past Senates and had hoped that the 
entire debt would be paid off this year. 
The effects of such a move though, as we pointed out Tuesday, would have been disastrous. Several organizations would have been severely crippled, perhaps beyond repair. 
The current deficit can be paid off in full next year. What is needed though is sound fiscal management by Student Government, and a careful watchdog policy on the part of the Senate. Student Union, and Student Government must impose upon themselves a strict self-discipline, so as to avoid the disasters of the two previous years. We have little doubt that this will be done. We need only repeat Senator Ed Davey's words to express how we feel about the spirit of fiscal responsibility that is pervading the Union: "I've looked over the Union's controls, and I can honestly say that they're the best I've ever seen." 
The Senate though, must not allow itself to slip into a quagmire of complacency. It must demand from the Student Government Treasurer a monthly report on the financial status of Student Government, with a detailed breakdown of expenditures during the period. The Senate must not hesitate to suspend the funds of any branch of the government, if it feels that those funds are being wasted, or misused, and immediately conduct a full investigation into the situation. 
David Breen, Business Manager Photo Editor: Phil Bosco The opinions in the editorials Timothy J. Dineen, Ad.Mgr. Features Editor: Tom Ehrbar news analyses, and columns of Ttr~ News Editor: Glenn Corso Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Observer are solely those of the Copy Editor: David Stauffer Night Editor: Cliff Wintrode authors and editors of The Observer Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Lavnu t design: Phil Barth and do not necessarily reflect th~: 
Ann Conway, Laura Haferd, Jeanne Headlines: Randy Young, Dave views of St. Mary's College, the Uni· Sweeney, Prudence Wear McCarthy versity of Notre Dame, their admini.­layout Editor: Mary Beth Crimmins Layout: Cindy.Serve, Ann Con waY 
trations, faculty or student bodies. 
,I
·---•J.' I 
1 
I 
i ' \ 
I' I '\
'' 
\: ·. I
\ 
't' \~·> 

Paul Gallagher 
Integrity phases out 
Tim MacCarry's column two weeks ago about saints and saint days was a great door-opener for my talking of another churchy issue, one concerning the patronage of the university. 
In reading through the play A Man for All Seasons this week with October IS's Moratorium Mass experience still in mind, it occurred to me that Margaret M:J ore, Thomas Moore's daughter, might serve well as patroness of the university in place of Notre Dame d u Lac these days. And this on the grounds that she would be better suited philosophically to be a protector and haven of refuge for degree seekers today than the traditional virgin. 
She is, remember, the Moore who suggested that her father forget his moral scruple and take the Oath of Allegience to the Church of Englawl with his fingers crossed. 
"God more regards the thoughts of men than the works of his mouth," she prompted. "Then say the words of the oath and in your heart think otherwise." 
She would be a special patroness and protector of the pragmatist way of life -a way of life in which the results of a man's actions, 
e.g. getting wars stopped, ensuring that the poor are fed, that the oppressed are freed, etc., are respected more than the personal integrity a man maintains in acting. 
She would be a patroness to those who say, "I know I'm striving for a position in, and paying lip service to, a thoroughly corrupted system, but wait until I am established, I'll change things." Likewise would she protect those who say, "What a waste of time for a mind like Sir Thomas Moore to rot in prison. Think of all that he could have done for the church if he would have just taken the oath and forgotten about it." 
Thomas Moore was strong with his daughter. He said, "When a man takes an oath, he's holding his own self in his hands like water and if he opens his fingers then -he needn't hope to find himself again." But we at the university seem in large part to be much more sympathetic with Margaret. 
The more a man reflects on his life in American society, the more he is aware of the meaning of original sin; that is, the more he realizes that try as he may, he cannot not be involved in committing evil in the world. To be alive is to be implicated. 
The State can no longer offer man the alternative of taking his things and moving to a place where he can live alone, as it could for Socrates. And so man has no ability to "love it or leave it." There is just no place free of society to which he can move. 
To be pure he must not only not war or refuse to pay taxes that contribute to war, he must also not pay rent to a man who pays taxes, or buy bread from him, or be employed by him ... 
He can not only not live in a white ghetto, he can not judge with white legal systems, work in white corporations, or talk in white categories ... 
To be pure, in fact, he must take stands to the death, lest his children charge -as do children of Nazi German parentage-"You are alive, you couldn't have done enough." 
But we at the university seek the intercession and protection of Saint Margaret Moore. "It's not our fault that the state is bad," we say with her, "and so if you elect to suffer for it, you elect yourself a hero." Or more poignantly we say, "Let us prepare to be effective later; let's forget for now what our silence says." And so we proceed to speak a lie with our lives in hopes that some good will come of it some day. We perjure ourselves with Sir Rich, but for noble cause. It is a new morality; one which the university in large part is making her own. For good or for bad we should be conscious of what she is doing. Saint Margaret Moon~ -pray for us. 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 196P 
This is the SMC campus, Rome, which will house 70 girls next year. The students will receive a full year of academic study and credit in the field of humanities. 
Panty raids should take on an exotic lure. 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 111111111111~1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
-

Alarms and diversions~ Blodwyn Pig is quite mad 
-
-
-
-

:-A & M Records' new British recording can't really categorize our music. We
Hoosier hysteria Four sectional winners also were : group Blodwyn Pig, who will soon be write most of our own material and have 
announced-Steve Plank, Galveston; : making their first U.S. tour, only made 
PENDLETON, Ind. (UI'l)-At least the essence of all sorts of music. We only
Doug LeMast~r, Bunker Hill; Steve : their English debut as a unit in February 
needed to spend a full week rehearsing24 inmates at the Indiana Van Vactor, Plymouth, and Yvonne 5 this year -but immediately made a 
Rdormatory went on a rampage Wed­before we made our debut at Cooks Ferry
Moyer, Plymouth. : massive impact as an original outfit of 
nesday afternoon, tearing up bedding, Inn because we all knew in what direction
-, : superb musicians who definitely had we were heading."
toilets and plumbing. There was no -something to offer to the British music 
report of any injuries. Hoo 's-here is working? -scene. ~lodwyn Pig as a unit is not only
-

umque -it is quite mad, and admits it. Its
INDIANAPOLIS (UPI)-Unemploy­-5 Of pourse, the four members were no 
ad-lib announcements, its pure delight inRags to Richmond ment claims in Indiana last week were : ·newcomers to music, all had a firm performing, its unpredictability which 
up slightly from the preceding week, : grounding and had achieved acclaim in
WASIIINGTON (UI'l)-The Depart­also ensures a different and refreshing act 
director John F. Coppes of the Indiana : their own right with various · groups. ment of llousing and Urban Develop­Employment Security said 5 Leader Mick Abrahams, formerly guitarist at every appearance, puts them in a class
Division
ment Wednesday approved recertifica­·of their own.
Wednesday. Although about 200 fewer : with Jethro Tull, decided to form the
tion for a workable program for Rich­All numbers on their first A & M persons filed initial claims, the total -group because he wanted to work in amond, Ind. increased from 13,525 to 13,705 be­-•-particular direction with musicians who album were written by members of the
-group... Six of them being the
had the same musical ideas as himself. Cash and carry from people out of work a week or --Mick had, in the past, played in groups compos1t1ons of Mick and Jack. Theircause of a 3 per cent increase in claims ­
-

longer, Coppes said. -with Andy Pyle and Jack Lancaster and album cover sports a gorgeous photo of a 
-

INDIANAPOLIS (UPI)-A lone ban­--during that time the three of them psychedelic pig -and one can perhaps
Coppes said reasons for the small 
-
-

dit escaped Wednesday with $2,812 increase included seasonal slowdowns -realized they were kindred spirits as far as 
from a southside branch of the Union --• music was concerned. They vowed they sense the humor of the group from this.
reductions of force, and lack of orders:
Federal Savings and Loan Association. Although .t~ey t~e their music seriously, 
He also said there were several con­--would eventually get together to form a 
Police said the bandit approached the struction projects completed and --group -and did, with the addition of Ron ~hey also U!Ject a hghtness and gaiety into
-

teller and told her he wanted to -Berg on drums. 1t. When ~ou hrar them, you will
weather has caused a slowdown in ­
transfer some funds. As she turned to -probably e11Joy some of the jokes Mick
Jack Lancaster is a
quarries. About 80 workers were with­­
get the funds, he pulled a gun, police --comes out with in between numbers.
out jobs because the plywood plant in -multi-instrumentalist -he plays tenor sax,
said. Blodwyn Pig is part of the new breedSouthern Indiana closed. The claims -•• soprano sax, flute, electric violin and 
The gunman stuffed cash from two --sometimes bass clarinet. Andy Pyle plays of British musicians who set trends which 
were still about II per cent under the ­
teller cages into a briefcase, then for­• are felt in the international music world
I 5,417 filed for the corresponding six-string bass and cello. The group's
-

ced three tellers and manager Mrs. week of 1968, Coppes said. --versatility and scope renders them T~ey will be copied because they ar~ Elsie Merrick into a back room where --'unclassifiable'. Mick comments: "People ongmal, but they will always remain
-

he hound them to chairs with heavy -leaders, developing as they do 
-
may say we are Blues based or have a 
cord. -continually.
Cycle mates -heavy Modern Jazz influence -but you 
-

"Do not move for twelve minutes or 
-

will shoot you," the women noted Dear Lynn, i 
I was excited about Homecoming all :the gunman as telling them. lie then 
fled, apparently on foot. this week. I called you up tonight i when you were already in bed. You :
The holdup occurred shortly after 
said you had son1e tests ton1orrow so 5
noon at the branch office, 2554 South you bt:tter not talk long. If you ever :Madison Ave. 
called n1e, I'd talk to you all night long 5 if you wanted to. You really have : rnessed rny mind. I'm going to get on :17-15-20! 
my cycle tonight and do some riding. I : 
LAFAYETTE, Ind. (UPI)-Phil won't he around for the dance this 5 Miller, 16, Galveston, won the l96lJ weekend. If I come back, it will he : 4-11 Tomato Club contest. because of you, so don't be mad at me 5 
The youth, a sophomore at Lewis for what I've done. : Cass lligh School, produced a prize Jyoama ­
-•­

winning crop of 3J.45 tons per acre on ­
5.66 acres of cropland. The crop ­
The Notre Dame & I.U. psych 5scored 93.99 for usable tomatoes and clubs are co-sponsoring an art sale at : 
69.3 wlor index. 
the Northern Indiana Children's llospi-:Miller planted varil'ty 1409 last May 
tal (Notre Darne Ave.) on Nov. 9 5 
23. using 7,140 plants per acre in 40 between I and 4 p.m. The paintings : inch rows. lie plowcll down 316 will be done by sixteen of the children 5pounds of 17-15 20 fertilizer plus 25 and the proceeds will go toward their :pounds pt•r ane of starter solution. 
recreation fund. Then.: will be an open -:The field was sprayed I I times. 
houst• and a lour of the hospital. : 

THE OBSERVER. THURSDAY, NOVEIVIBER 6, 1969 
PAGE 6 
Letters to the Editor 
The following is a letter from the parents of Larry Dirnberger, one of the Notre Dame graduates who has been killed in 
Vietnam and whose cross was placed in front of the ROTC building during the Moratorium. 
-ed. 
In Memorium 
Editor: 

A few days ago we were provided with a copy of your October 16th issue. We were sad and pleased with your tribute to our beloved son Lawrence A. Dirnberger. We want to express our appreciation to everyone concerned that took part in effecting this tribute in memory of Larry. The Moratorium as conducted at Notre Dame met 
with our approval and praise. We were with Larry during his last few terribly painful days at t h!! Clark Air Force Base
Hospital in the Philippines. The w'o nderful "spirit of Notre Dame" was ever evident in Larry to his very end. His call for help 
was the "memorare." 
Larry developed a deep love 

for  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary  
while  at  Notre  Dame.  The  
ins~iratio?  which  he  received  

dunng. hts four years at Notre 
of its depth. Therefore, we are forever grateful for that everlasting Notre Dame spirit. It has been so widespread, so very effective, so often, and for such a long period of time. Not only to its students, but reflected on mankind throughout the world. We know that Larry concured in these thoughts. Many people do. Perhaps more want to express them in words but fail to do so. This is our opportunity to say 
"thanks"  to the Notre  Dame  
institution.  
Respectfully,  

Mr. & Mrs. J.A. Dirnberger 
Form resignation 

Editor: In light of the increasing num­
ber of political suicides by the disillusioned or, perhaps, enlight­ened student leaders who have 
bravely set themselves ablaze with flaming rhetoric, and thus have gone out of office in a cloud of dust and a cry of repentance, certainly a form let­ter which will more quickly clear the smoke of future self-inciner­
ations is in order, to wit: Dear (name of superior), In all fairness to (the students, myself, my girl friend, pick only 
Dame 1s beyond our explanation , one), I feel that I can no longer 
APPLICATIONS ARE NOW BEING ACCEPTED FOR: 
1) Appeals Court (1) 
2) University Court (3) 
3) Student Judicial Board (10) 
Submit by November 9, to Gary Mcinerney, Judiciai Coordinator Box 522 Student Government 
Revlon invents 
the first 
~Blotting 
Blusher'! 
Blushers and oily skin don't mix, right? Wrong. Here's the first one with a special ingredient that blots up oil as it blushes on color. It's oil free~ Medicated. In S" shades oil can't spoil, l'ecause no oil will break through. That's a pt·omise. From Revlon. Natural Wonder ~Blotting Blusher' 
Available at: 
St. Mary's College Bookstore 
remain (name of present posi­
tion). 
Following a long period of (dialogue and thought, internal turmult and pathos, kicking and slugging) between myself and my immediate superior, my Id, my girl friend), I have decided to step down from my office. 
I do so with a (heavy, light, laughing) heart and with no (hostilities toward, particular concern for, second thoughts of) the (fine, so-so, horrid) people working under me. The simple reason for my resignation is that I feel myself to be (unworthy, too busy, flunking out, drafted, sick to my stomach) and I fear that the responsibilities are too (great, little, rediculous) to be 
faced at this time. 
Although I will not be offi­

cially involved with the (name of 
present position), I will still 
strive to do all that I can to help 
in any way those (persons, 
bozos) who once (elected, 
appointed, gave) me this posi­
tion and who I now (leave be­
hind, secretly hate, don't re­
member). 
Yours in (regret, anguish, 
Notre Dame), 
(name of resignee) 
Sincerely, 
Rey W. Dee 
482 Morrissey 
Up-tight top 

To Whom It May Concern: 
(in reply to the letter appear­

ing in the Observer on October 
31,1969) 
We now possess the Home­

coming Queen for the Navy 
game weekend. We actually have 
no use for her-not because she's 
too bulky (she'd make a lovely 
paperweight), but because Pears 
doesn't dance, and Jim Riehle 
and Fr. Mac wouldn't miss see­
ing Smoky Robinson together 
for anything ... 
I wish the above letter, or one 


100% HUMAN HAIR 
*EUROPEAN QUALITY 
(Mode de Paris France) 

FACTORY -1 YEAR GUARANTEE 
Buy Direct from Factory I 
WIGLETS WIGLETS 
NOV.6

DAYS open 
~

thru SUNDAY\.·~ NOV.9 11 -4
ONLY! 

LAST DAY 
100% Human Hair. Limited Colors. Reg $10.95 
$1.98 

100% Human Hair. Extra Large. Reg. $19.95 
$6.88 

POSTICHES 100% Human Hair. 2'12-0z. 
8·10 long. The Best One_  $9.88  
WIGS  100% Human Hair. Reg. $49.95 (Mode De Paris France)  $14.88  
WIGS  100% Human Hair. Ventilated. (Mode De Paris France). Reg. $150.  $45.88  

100% Human Hair-

Shoulder Length-Reg. $69.95
FALLS _$24.95 
100% Human Hair-FALLS One of the Finest-Reg. $79.95 
For Grecian Curls­
CASCADES Reg. $39.95 
No Reasonable Offer Refused 
analogoPs to it, could have be.en written by someone else but me...like a Notre Dame Vice President, for example, or the Rector of Grace. I, unfortunate­ly, am morally insensitive enough to think that the corner stone-napping was a real chuckle ... and that a sense of humor at the Top could have elevated a situation described as 

stupid into an episode that would have sent every old Grad in the Grey (Geritol) Havens of St. Petersburg chortling off to find his checkbook. 
But maybe to be Up Top is to be Up Tight. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
Pseud-soul Brogan 
Editor: 

I'm sorry but I just can't take it anymore. Please, for our sake. get that idiot pseudo-soui brother Jim Brogan out of here. Send him to Lincoln High School, send him back home just get him out of here. He not •only writes with a 6-8 year old~ child in mind, but is also lying to us. 
1.) Smokey Robinson did not prove himself to be one of 
America's great entertainers, but rather the distant relative ot some cooing pigeon. 
2.) He never, at any time, held the audience in the palm of his hand. The fact of the matter is that the vast majority of paying spectators were either asleep or getting there. 
-$36.95 $12.88 

3.) The performance of the Miracles was not flawless and furthermore did not rel;te to any of the audience (discounting 
',e high-schoolers).  
4.) The  audience  was  not  
psyched.  
The  concert, in fact,  was  

ridiculous. I know of very few people who enjoyed it. Most would have been elsewhere had it not been for their dear HTHs. Every song sounded the same and the floor movements of the Miracles reminded me of 3 wind­up toys, all in time. 
Please let's cut out all the nonsense. If the concert is bad, let's say so. Let's knock off this sick sophistication and get back to entertaining groups (such as the Chambers brothers) who play for us and not for the money. 
Before you think of this as a slam on black music, let me tell you how much I enjoyed Miss Yvonne Fair. She was very en­joyable,and far away the best entertainer on the program. It's to bad she couldn't have been the main attraction, but then I don't suppose she can twirl a tambourine through her legs and 
sing dooobeee, dooobeee. Jim Hrogan, get real. 
Bill Waikup 
222 Keenan 
Dear John 
Dear John: 
It has never been my intent­ion to cast aspersions upon the personal honor or integrity of any individual within Student Government, nor to single out a particular person for censure. 
It is my hope that our ex­change of letters has served to air, for the benefit of the univer­sity community, the issues cen­tral to the problems of Student Government financing. 
Sincerely, Joe Wemhoff 
).-, 

t>• • • ··········COUPON·············· : S1.11 DISCOUNT o• WilLETS : : SUI DISCOU.T o• WIGS &FALLS : : OY£1 S28.00 : 
WIGS SI0.88 
WASH & WEAR 
(SYNTHETIC-PRECURLED STRETCHABLE I 

Coift·ures 
By Phyllis 

HOURS: 
Thurs.-Sat. 
10:00-6:00 

Sunday II :00-4:00 2618 South J\'Ii(~higan St. 
Phone 287-4606 South Bend 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6. 1969 
PAGE 7

____na_ OBSERJI£R. 
Nothing is too ridiculous for the Ombudsman 
by Jim Graif 
"Nothing is lou ridiculous for us to handle," goes the saying around the Ombudsman office. This sort of sums up thr feeling of this branch of the Student Government Cabinet. 
reflects thl~ attitude of the pre­sent Student (;overnment ad­ministration toward its role, that of trying not to overlook the basic needs of the students. 
Student Body President Phil McKenna agreed with Smith on academic grievance committee of both faculty and students which would handle problems that students arc having with a particular course or teacher. It would also give faculty members a chance to express their grie­could present their complaints directly to Mr. Pears. He also felt that the possibility of a co-op bookstore could he looked into. 
Smith felt that the Ombuds­man commissioner should be­come an elected office since the commissioner is a student repre­sentative and an election would be a more representative way of choosing a commissioner. 
Both Smith and McKenna urged students to take advantage of the service. 
this point and also stated: "For Jim Smith explained that the the basic everyday needs of the purpose of the Ombudsman is to 
Ombudsman Commissioner 
student, the Ombudsman avoids he the defender of the common the strangulation of going man's rights. through proper channels to ob­"Our power lies in media­tain everything." tion," said Smith, while pointing Since the Ombudsman is out that as mediator be.t ween building up its reputation as a 
Student Government and the place where something gets student body, the Ombudsman done, Smith expressed optimism serves as the conscience of Stud­for its future growth. He also ent Government. had a few ideas for improve­
The Ombudsman listens to ments. and trys to solve specific student Smith would like to see an complaints which range from vances against students. 
He hoped that something would be set up by the end of the semester. Since many of the student problems involve securi­ty he hoped that an open forum could be held in which students 
A Q · k Old
me Trip to Town 

jennifer's 119 W. Colfax 
having troubk finding a day bed 
N.D. YOUNG DEMOCRATS 
for a triple room to the fact that 
There will be a meeting for all old & new members
the rats around the lake arc 
at 6:30, 2nd floor LaFortune, Thursday (tonight).
interfering with a guy's love life. After listening to the com­
Purpose is to reorganize the club, and decide the plaint the Ombudsman office 
role of the club on this campus. will telephone the people who most likely can rectify the situa­tion and ask for help or at least an explanation of the reasons for the problem. 
Smith pointed out that the commission has had a good rela­tionship with maintenance and security, the two main sources of answers to student probkms. In addition, the Ombudsman looks at the kind of problems being presented and trys to get to the source of the whole prob­lem. 
"As a university gl'ts larger it becomes more depersonalized but with the Ombudsman there is at least one person the student can call to get something done," said Smith. 
lie felt that the Ombudsman 


to lunch 

for Half-Price 
Now thru Friday, Nov. 7, this coupon lets you pay fur a lunch at hal( price when vuu have one at regular .low prices. Quarter /h. Ground Steak and French Fries 79 cents. Steak dinners $1. 09 to $/.89. What a dea/ 1 
~111111111111111111111111111111~ 
~ ~cOUPON.-..5 ~ tLACK ANr;l/.r ~ 
Freshmen, Sophomores or Juniors 
Interested in wprking tu save 
the Contemporary Art Festival 
Come to an important meeting 
Thurs. 7:30 PM 123 Nleuwland 
The technology of moving things
-
-
-
-

-That's right! Grumman's real business is the technology of moving things ... men and machines in purposeful patterns within a great 
-

-diversity of origins, destinations and tactical situations. Speed is often, but not always, the answer. Performance reliability-in spite
-•-­

-
of many interfaces-is the thing. In close-in combat "dog fights"-an aircraft with speed, maneuverability and armaments ... the F-14
-

-
Air Superiority Fighter. --
-
In lunar exploration-The Lunar Module which successfully landed the astronauts on the moon. 
In areas of enemy activity-an aircraft with track and search radar that can locate, identify and lock on
§ STEAK HOUSE 
to the target, even in zero visibility ... the A6A Intruder, and advanced versions.
-
In early warning emergencies-an aircraft that can extend the eyes and ears of a Navy task force at sea
: 1520 N. Ironwood Or. 
through radar and computers that alert interceptor aircraft to impending enemy attacks ... the E2A
-
Hawkeye, and advanced versions. 
-
:South of C'a mpus bet ween 
Far above the earth, a satellite that can discover more about the evolution of the universe ... the 
:south Bend Ave. & Edison Rd. 
Orbiting Astronomical Observatory. 
Add Deep Submersibles, Hydrofoil seacratt, High-speed Ground Transportation systems, Corporate aircraft and Lunar SurfaceECoupon for Second Dinner of E vehicles, and you get some idea of how Grumman is extending the perimeters of the technology of moving·things. :()ame Value at Hal{l'ricl' ., : 
At Grumman the opportunity for moving is presented in abundance to Physics, Aero, Civil, Mechanical, Electrical/Electronic, : Good Between 11;00 am : 
Chemical, Industrial Engineering or Technology Majors determined to find the right vehicle for their careers.--: Grumman Represcntdtives will be on campus THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1969
: and 4:00pm, • Nov. 7 • 
1-JjWlliJI!.!l!!.'~~· •."1111111II II IIft 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except 
To obtain Grumman Literature and arrange vacations by the students of the 
an on-campus interview, contact your College Placement OIIJco
University of Notre Dame and St. 
II an on-campus mterview IS not convenient, send 
~"'':~,,._GRUMMAN
Mary's College. Subscriptions may 
comprehensive resume to Mr. Richard N. Haug, Maf'lngcr be purchased for $8 from The 
College Relnt•ons/RecrUJtment, Dept. GR-251 ~
"f~~,-AEROSPACE CORPORATION
. 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, 
~ Bethpage • Long Island • Nevv York
Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
~ An Equal 0 rtun•ty Empl e• (M/F) 


PAGE 8 THE OBSERVER. THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1969 
Hockey '69-'70 •• Canadian support 
by Don Kennedy 
Observer Sports Writer Last year Notre Dame drew the bulk of its perspective var­sity hockey squad from "the land of 10,000 lakes". For this season, however, Coach "Lefty" Smith has ventured beyond the borders of the continental U.S. to far away mythical lands with names like "Saskateon, Saskat­chewan" and "Trail, British Co­lumbia" where hockey players abound in number and talent. Form there and other scattered pockets of hockey in the U.S. Coach Smith has assembled a group of twelve promising fresh­men skaters to complement the boys from Minnesota. 
Two freshman will highlight the Irish's first-line attack. Gary Little (ask him where Trail is) will start at left-wing with Paul Regan handling the faceoffs. Smith holds high hopes for Little, a tough scrapper who'll add muscle to the Irish front­line attack. These two will team with Phil Wittliff, last year's high 
scorer with a 31-goal season, 
1cers

ND • 
The hockey team representing the University of Illinois­Chicago Circle arrived at the Convo last night 30 minutes late 
• for their encounter with the 
Irish. After the scrimmage, the probably felt they shouldn't have come at all. The carnage that took place made the N D-Navy football mismatch seem like a poll-bowl in comparison. 
Coach Lefty Smith's young team buried the Chicagoans I 0-0 in a game-type scrimmage which lasted approximately 75 minutes. Sophomores John Womack and Kevin Hoene led the assault with two goals a piece, while Irish goalies Dick Tomasoni and Chris Cathcart combined for 15 saves. 
Notre Dame began sluggishly until freshman Gary Little got involved in a shoving match by the UI goal. Little then took a rebound off the stick of Mark 
who will be unavailable for ac­
tion until the end of football 
season. 
This year's second line will add more depth to the Irish attack with freshman John Noble centering for frosh Bruce Raskeb and sophomore John Wemack. Third line duties will belong to veterans Joe Bonk, Kevin Hoene and John Roselli. 
Defensively, goalie Dick Tom­asoni, who last year averaged 
32.9 saves per game and was awarded MVP of the 1 968-69 Irish squad, will be backed by freshman Chris Cathcart, a goalie capable of major college perfor­mance. Soph Jim Morin will team up with freshman Bill Green at the first defensive slot, with another frosh-soph combi­nation, consisting of veteran Mark Longar and rookie Mark Steinborn handling second-line defensive duties. Although de­fense was a main problem for last year's squad, these four plus the addition of three other fresh­man defensemen should alleviate previous problems with clearing 
and penalty-killing. Coach Smith feels that th1s year's schedule poses a definite challenge to the young Notre Dame squad. Citing contests with Boston College and Colora­do College, LeftY. says, "We'll show how well we compare to the best in the East and the best in the West". As opposed to last year's schedule, Coach Smith can foresee "no real patsy all season". Lefty, and most of last year's Irish squad, particularly looks forward to a two game set with Wisconsin (who last year pasted the "Irish in four games: 10-2, 12-0, 5-l, and 10--2) against when Smith expects a "much better chance this sea­son". 
The Notre Dame coaching staff will be shooting for a 20-win season and Lefty would consider this a "highly sucessful season". Both Smith and assis­tant coach Tim McNeill feel this season's team will be "from a 50 to 75% improvement over last year's squad "but will reserve decision until they're a few 
plaster tardy UI 
Longar and backhanded it to­ward the goal where Paul O'Neil tipped it in. The ignited Irish then poured in four quick scores. After Womack watched his shot trickle through the pads of UI goaltender Rory Mozden, Hoene knocked in two goals back -to-back. 
Little then out-fought two UI defensemen for the puck, out­raced them from the blue line, and beat Mozden to his upper right. NO's number four line closed out first half scoring as freshmen Jim Hayes (goal) and Adam Stelmaszynski (assist) up­ped the margin to 6-0. 
Although the Irish were leth­argic in clearing the puck defen­sively, Tomasoni was tested only once by the UI offence. He came out of the net about fifteen feet to block a shot right off a Chicago attackman's stick in the early going of the scrimmage. During the first half. Irish assist­
ant coach Tim McNeil acted as referee, calling several penalties, but leaving the players on ice. In the second period, however, McNeil put frosh defenseman Bill Green off for holding. Chi­cago was unable to capitalize on the advantage. When ND held a one-man advantage later in the second period, however, they had great difficulty scoring on UI goalie Mike Massura, who came up with several fine saves. During a span of approximately five minutes when UI was short­handed, the Irish managed only one goal. 
SCORING ND~ O'Neil (Longar, Little) ND: Womack (Raskob) ND: Hoene (Roselli, J. Bonk) ND: Hoene (M. Bonk, J. Bonk) ND: Little (unassisted) ND: Hayes (Stelmaszynski) ND: Regan (Little) ND: Noble (unassisted) ND: J. Bonk (Hoene) ND: Womack (Regan, Rascob) 

Hoosier blacks off squad 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (UPI)­-Nine of 14 Negro members of the Indiana University football team failed to report for practice again Wednesday and were drop­ped from the roster. 
Another, Charles Murphy, said he was undecided. The blacks still remained silent about their grievance but said they would issue a statement, probab­ly later Wednesday night. 
Four Negro athletes returned to practice Wednesday and were reinstated to the team without penalty by coach John Pont. They were John Andrews, Steve Porter, Tim Roberson, and Bob Jones. 
The nine who flatly said they would not come back were Larry Highbaugh, Bob Pernell, Gordon May, Greg Harvey, Benny Norman, Clarence Price, Don Silas, Greg Thaxton and Mike Adams. 
Among regulars in the group were Highbaugh, Adams, Pernell, Silas and Price. 
Pont met with the blacks earlier Wednesday afternoon and told them they would be accept­ed back without penalty if they showed up for practice. Pont said those who failed to return would be off the team under mystery surrounded the boycott terms of a rule that does not through Wednesday afternoon. permit a player to miss more There were reports the blacks than one consecutive practice were unhappy with Pont but a session without a legitimate ex­faculty spokesman said he was cuse. convinced there was no basis for 
School officials said the uni­this report. versity would honor scholarships The Hoosiers are currently for those dropped off the team working out in preparation for until at least the end of the Saturday's Big Ten game against current school year. An air of Iowa. 
Irish rise in wire polls 
UPI RATINGS 

1. Ohio State (31) 6-0 ..............346 2. rexas (3) 6-0........................307 3. Tennessee (1) 6-0 .................280 
4. 
Penn State 7-0......................198 

5. 
So. California 6-0-1.............175 6. Arkansas 6-0.........................173 7. UCLA 7-0-1 ........................169 8. Missouri 6-1.......................... 89 9. Purdue 6-1 ............................ 52 


10.NotreDame5-1-1 ............... 50 
11. Louisiana St. 6-1 .................. 44 12. Stanford 4-2-1 .................... 13 13. Michigan 5-2......................... 6 14. 1-b uston 4-2 ......................... 5 15. Georgia 5-2........................... 3 
AP RATINGS 

1. Ohio State (301 6-0 ..............742 2. Texas (51 6-0 ........................682 3. Tennessee (21 6-0 .................590 4. Arkansas 6-0.........................515 
5. Penn State (1) 7-0 ................466 6. So. California 6-0-1.............432 7. UCLA 7-0-1 ........................357 
8. Notre Dame 5-1-1 ...............275 
9. Missouri 6-1 ..........................232 10. Purdue 6-1............................194 11.Auburn5-1 ........................148 
12. Louisiana St. 6-1 ..................140 13. Florida 6-1 ........................... 86 14. Stanford 4-2-1 .................... 69 l5. Kansas St. 5-2....................... 64 
SMALL COLLEGE 

1. No. Oak. St. (281 8-0............326 2. Montana (11 8-0 ...................256 
3. Ark. St. ( 1) 5-1 .....................240 4. Delaware (31 6-1...................224 5. N.M. Hilnds6-0-1 ...............138 
6. Col. St. Coli. (11 7-0 .............124 7. Akron 7-1 ............................. 111 
8. 
Texas A& I 6-1 ...................... 87 

9. 
Tampa 6-1 ............................ 69 · 

10. 
Alcorn A&M 5-0-1 .............. 62 


heart and Tomasoni against eachgames into the season. 

other with lines split evenly to 

Sunday night at the Convo comprise two teams. Games time Center, Coaches Smith and is set for 7:00 p.m. (EST) and McNeill will show off their admission for students will be youthful charges in a 'Blue-fifty cents. A brief hockey clinic Gold' scrimmage pitting Cat-will be held prior to the game.
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

JIM MURRAY 
The best passers in the NFL 
~ 1969, Los Angeles Times If I were to ask you who completed the most passes in Ram history, you would answer "Roman Gabriel," right? 
Wrong. 

"But it says so right in the record book!" you would counter. 
The record book lies. 

If I were to ask you who played center for the Rams, you would start to stammer and blush and paw the ground with your to~ right? 
I'll give you a hint: his name is Ken Iman. He wears No. SO but don't strain your eyes. There'll be 21 other jerseys on top of it most of the afternoon. 
You recognize an offensive center by the dents in his helmet. It looks like a pot used by a clumsy cook. de takes more raps on the head than a movie private eye. If you stand close, you can hear his head ringing. He gets his picture in the paper in a crowd shot. A pickpocket gets more publicity. 
But Roman Gabriel can't complete a pass unless he does. If Ken !man's is incomplete, the only thing Gabriel can do with the football is look for it. 
On a good day, Gabe will throw 35-40 passes, complete 25 of them. On a good day, Ken I man has to throw 60-70 passes, complete all of them. If you added them all up, they wouldn't make one first down but you have to remember most of them are served up to the accompaniment of a left-and-a-right to the head from a 2HO-pound tackle. 
Ken doesn't center back to the punter any more. George Burman gets that assignment because a punt-return team requires a clear head--and even an anvil needs a rest. The punter stands 14 yards behind the center. But !man's longest pass from center is 7 yards to holder Eddie Meador on place kicks. The laces have to be up so that Meador shouldn't have to wast valuable time rotating the ball. If the laces are to the kicker or off to one side, the kick wobbles. 
Only the most dedicated pro football fans can name the starting centers in the league. His position is demanding. Yet, most of the great ones in the game were signed as free agents. Iman was. John Schmitt of the Jets was. Mick Tingelhoff, five times All-Pro, was. The Cowboys' Dave Manders had to play two seasons in the minors. Good centers are as invisible in college as they are in the pros. 
If he's too light, the defense will play an odd-man line to put 
some behemoth with a Joe Louis right cross on his head. If he's too 
heavy, he can't get out to make the "cutoff" block. 
He has to have the kind of face where you can't tell by looking at 
it whether he's got four kings or a busted flush. He has to have the 
patience of a fisherman and the reactions of a w1re-walker. On a long 
count, if he betrays the snap by the flare of a nostril, they'll need a 
drill to find him. 

"Bulldog" Turner of the old Chicago Bears was almost the only pro center ever to find his way onto the back of cereal boxes. It seems strange for a business which prides itself in specialists the way pro football does to select so casually a man who will handle the football more than any other player on the team. This year, !man will pass ye olde Ram, Leon McLaughlin, as the Ram who had his hands on the football more than any other. 
Like Tingelhoff, Manders, Schnitt and most of the breed, hejust came walking into the Green Bay Packers' camp off the campus of Southeast Missouri in 1960 and he spent four years on "special" units, football's version of S-car pileups of mid-ocean collisions until he was traded to the Rams in '64 for Zeke Bratkowski. 
Although the transaction was supposed to be secret, Ken's 
immediate superior, Jim Ringo, All-Pro center, got wind of it and 
showed up in coach Yin Lombardi's office with an unusual accessory 
for a pro center--a business manager. Lombardi likes his centers 
encumbered with nothing more than a football and a Band-Aid and 
he pointed at the newcomer. "Who's he?" he demanded. "He has 
come to negotiate my new contract," Ringo advised. Lombardi 
excused himself, left the-room. He returned in five minutes. 
"If you'll excuse me, gentlemen, you've come to the wrong 
place," he said, "Mr. Ringo's contract is now the property of the 
Philadelphia Eagles." 

You would gather from that act that centers rank somewhere 
between head linesmen and glockenspielers in the football scheme of 
things. But the Rams arc not fooled. I man has not missed a game in 
4V2 years and he has finally got Roman Gabriel trained down to his 
passing to where Gabc is going to sets single-season reception record 
on the Rams and Ken will remain the only passer on the squad with 
no irncomplctions. Nor interceptions. 




