



VOL. IV, NO. 43 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community FRIDAY, NOV. 14, 1969 
186 arrested at peace mass resistance Includes 12 members of ND-SMC 
Jim Hunt 
General RichardT. Dunn speaking last night. 
Reporter Paul Gallagher has been in Washington since Wednesday and has wired the following Observer Exclusive. 
Twelve members of the Notre Dame-SMC community were among a group of 186 war pro­testors who were arrested at the Pentagon yesterday afternoon as they attempted to celebrate a peace mass there. 
The Indiana contingent was taken from the Pentagon to a 
U.S. district court in Alexandria, Virginia, and charged with viola­tion of a federal statute prohibi­ting obstruction on federal prop­erty, before being released for twenty-five dollars per person. 
The arrests came approxi­mately ten minutes after the beginning of a large-scale reli­gious ceremony which brought over three hundred Catholics and Episcopalians inside the Pen­tagon. It was intended that the participants "confront the mil-
Dunn discusses disorders 
by John DiCola 
Law enforcers across the na­tion arc confronted with the problem of balancing the rights of individuals with the rights of society, according to Brigadier General Richard T. Dunn of the Illinois National Guard. 
The General, also a lawyer, cited his legal knowledge as a definite asset in relating law to the facts. 
In his talk in the Library auditorium last night, Dunn, commander of the National Guard troops involved in the 
1968 Chicago convention disor­ders, pointed out that it is the problem of people living to­gether that causes a conflict of rights to come to the fore. Dunn felt that "the convention illus­trates this problem." 
The General first laid down basic principles for the preserva­tion of both individual rights and the rights of society, which sometimes come into conflict. lie stated that we arc a govern­ment and a people under law which embraces both order and justice. People who advocate law and order are now considered somewhat conservative, and those who proclaim justice over law and order are considered liberal. lie added, we must achieve a balance between these two -there must be justice in law and order. 
Dunn also commented that it is elementary that certain per­sonal liberties granted to us by the Constitution must not be subject to personal whims. Also, freedom must not become a license which would allow us to infringe upon the rights of others in society. "Every consti­tutional right must be engaged with such limitations so as to make its enjoyment by each consistent with its enjoyment by all," Dunn said. The rights of the majority must take precedence over the rights of the individual. 
General Dunn pointed out the many limitations imposed by both federal and state laws which place the lawman on a 
itarism of American society at 
the Temple of Death." 

It was led by the Rt. Rev. 
Edward Crowther, former Epis­
copal bishop of Kimberly, South 
Africa. The group first gathered 
at the mall entrance to speak out 
against the war then moved from 
the underground gateway to the 
building's shopping concourse 
for the Mass. 

Pentagon officials warned far 
in advance of plans for the cere­
mony, had busses and U.S. attor­
neys ready for mass arrests. 
During a sermon by Rev. Mal­
cohn Boyd, author of the medi-, 
tations Are You Running with 
Me Jesus, an assistant chief of 
the General Services Administra­
tion (GSA), walked into the 
middle of the group and warned 
that arrests were in the offing. 

"I am asking you folks to 
leave," he cautioned. "Anyone 
who does not wish to be arrested 1 may leave." Minutes later guards 
moved in to begin arrests. 

Crowther, with the Rt. Rev. Msgr. Paul Furoy of the Catholic University and Rt. Rev. Daniel Corrigan of Rochester, led those willing to be arrested to the basement of the Pentagon where officials waited to process their arrests. Of the 186 arrested, Notre Dame's contingent was among the most visible and vocal. 
The group locked arms, sang peace songs, and displayed twelve-foot banners on which the words "Notre Dame" strad­dled a large Greek Omega -the symbol of the resistance move­ment. 
First to be photographed and to head for the Alexandria Dis­trict Court was Chuck Darst, the brother of the recently deceased resistance leader, David Darst. Darst, a junior at Notre Dame, had previously committed him­self to the resistance movement by tearing up his draft card during Notre Dame's October 

tightrope. Dunn gave as an example the Illinois law which makes it illegal for an officer to neglect to disperse a riot. He then cited a federal provision which makes it unlawful for an officer to deprive an individual of his constitutional rights. The official must make an evaluc1tion of the situation and act accord­ingly. 
There is also the question of the amount of force to be used in the dispersion of an unruly or riotous mob. "The basic rule is," 
Dunn  said,  "when  applying  
force,  use  only  the  minimum  
force  necessary  to  accomplish  

'the mission." The lawman, in his opinion, is confronted with two major problems in confronting a 
_Dot situation: whether to use 
force at all, and how much force 
to usc, should it become neces­
sary. 

"In my opinion, Jaw enforce­ment cannot be selective," Dunn said. Except for certain instances on the individual level, the general believes that there can be no compromise of the laws which guard the rights of socie­
ty. "I don't believe that freedom of expression permits blocking traffic and destroying property," the General added. 
"It is a difficult time. It's a time when individual rights seem to conflict with society's rights. One wants to destroy the other," stated Dunn. 
moratorium ceremonies. 

Shortly afterward followed Brian Mcinerny, one of the founders of Notre Dame Coali­tion for Political Action. Then processed, in their time, were Professors James Douglas of the Notre Dame Program for the Study and Practice of Non­Violence; Shelly Smith, voice of' FFC; Professor Peter Smith, Tom Henehan and Karen Weller, also participants in the October draft card tearing ceremony on campus; and John Wiltz, a veteran member of Notre Dame's CILA group. 
Others from Notre Dame fol­lowing the celebrants of the Mass and booked by federal mar­shalls were Mike Fairchild, Chris Cotter, Dave Kocsis, Brian Mcintee and Tim Kendall. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) Vietnam protestors bearing can­dles and the names of soldier dead filed quietly from Arling­ton Cemetery past the White House to the foot of the U.S. Capitol h!st night to initiate a 40-hour "March Against Death." 
The marchers, numbering in the thousands, passed single file and hand-in-hand along the route. There were no reports of 
Co-education topic for January SAS 
by Don Ruane 

The Student Affairs Sub­committee, which met Tuesday, has the potential to be a more effective body than the Uni­
versity  Forum  and  similar  
bodies,  in  the opinion  of SBP  
Phil McKenna.  

"I think it is much more important than the University Forum or anything like this because it gives us some power to present concrete proposals to hear the other views and to have the proposals acted upon", said McKenna. He also added that the four undergraduate and two graduate student representatives on the committee give us "very good representation." 
At the next meeting in mid-January, an extensive report outlining a plan for a co-educa­tion separate from the co-ex­change program, will be present­ed to the committee along with arguments in its favor. "This topic was specfically chosen", remarked McKenna, "because it is, orie from which we might be able to make specific recom­mendations to the Student Af­fairs Committee." 
The original plan for the committee, suggested by ~1cKenna, was to have four students sit on the committee ex-officicio but this was re­jected, as was a second plan calling for two or three ex-of­ficio members and three "floating members."The "float­ers" would appear before the board when a topic of particular concern to them, would be up for discussion. "Floaters" were rejected because they would require speaking privileges which are reserved for permanent mem­bers. The ex-officio member was 
Chuck Darst (above) was one of the 12 arrested yester· day at the Pentagon. The others arrested were Brian Mcinerny, Professors James Douglass and Peter Smith, Shelly Smith, Tom Henehan, Karen Weller, John Wiltz, Mike Fairchild, Chris Cotter, Dave Kocsis, Brian Mcintee ltnd Tim Kendall. 
trouble during the initial stages of the three-day anti-war show­ing in security edgy Washington. 
Participants in the procession opposing President Nixon's war policy even halted for red lights 
(Continued on page 6) 

banned according to one trustee, because the trustee members were selected for their concern for student affairs and not by virtue of their office." 
McKenna, an exception to the ex-officio ruling, was asked to select four students that have a broad scope of the university and student life. The other student members are Fred Diedrick, Art McFarland, John Zimmem1an and John Quenneville. Mcfarland has not yet accepted 
his appointment.  
At  Tuesday's  meeting  the  
student  representatives  ex­ 
pressed  dissatisfaction  with  the  

lack of reforms in the Cur­riculum Review Board report. A.ccording to McKenna, · the trustees were "somewhat sym­pathetic to the students in that 
'there were no innovative changes." Facts and figures were presented by the graduate repre­sentatives concerning the T .A. situation. 
Fred Dedrick 

McKenna said that the pur­pose of the meeting was chiefly organizational and to "acquaint the trustees withwhat is going on and why we are dissatisfied with it." 

r 
I 
I 
I 
RGANIZATIONAL MEETING AND PRACTICE: SAT. 4:00 BADIN HAL
I 

Moratorium opinions aired
I 
KAZOOS ON SALE THEnl $.25
I 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14,1969
THE OBSERJJER.
PAGE 2 
JOIN TOM KASTELIC'S 52 MAN KAZOO BAND! 
by Jim Graif 

For info call Tom at 6985 or Devin at 6983 
The Observer yesterday asked 
Hi Once Again from Benton's 
As in years past, we at Benton's are eager to do business with you! We feel that we have in stock some of the latest fashion items, not only in South Bend, but in the whole country. As you are no doubt already aware, bells are still the hottest thing going, and our selection is complete all the way from denims to crepe. Coats are a bigger rage this year than they have been for quite sometime, and with our array from maxis to fun furs, you can't go wrong. I'll be in tomorrow and would love to have you come in, even if it's just to browse. If you can't make it then, please do so soon. Remember, Benton's is your kind of store. Bernadine 

131 s. Michigan St. Downtown So. Bend 
STARTS 
..feature Times 
1:25. 3:25-5:25 7:25-9:25
TODAY! 

..ONE OF THE uT HE 0 N L Y MOST POWER­FILM I KNOW




eas11 

FUL MOVIES I'VE THAT NOT ONLY EVER SEEN ... USES ROCK
RIDeR

ONE OF THE VERY MUSIC WELL BUT FEW THAT DOESN'T 
ALSO TREATS THE


IS•••
COP OUT!" 

HOWARD SMITH, VILLAGE VOICE 
uEASY TO WATCH, EASY TO APPLAUD! A HIGHSTRUNG FILM, TAUT AND SHINING IN THE SUN LIKE THOSE TELE­PHONE WIRES STRUNG ACROSS THE COUNTRY ... yEAH!'' 
LITA ELISCU. EAST VILLAGE OTHER 
uROUSING, RHYTHMIC AND SPLENDIFEROUSLY SCENIC!" 
ANDREW SARRIS. VILLAGE VOICE 
uAN EXCEPTIONALLY DEEPLY FELT, LYRICAL, FRIGHTENING FILM ABOUT LIFE IN AMERICA. IT IS THE FIRST 'COMMER­CIAL' FILM THAT HAS GENU­INELY ATTEMPTED TO DEAL WITH HIP LIFE HONESTLY AND WITHOUT EXPLOITATION!" 
PAUL GLUSHANOK, RAT 
.... ~ ... , 
~lan1ng 

&&RIDeR PETER FONDA. DENNIS HOPPER. JACK NICHOLSON 
Wrotlcnby 

DirE"< led by Produced by As!>OC•aiP Produc_er E •PC ut•vP Prod...( e•
Pl ILR fONDA DENNIS HOPPER PETER FONDA WILliAM HAYWARD BERT SCHNEIDER COLOR

OlNNIS HOi>f'ER llRRY SOUlH[RN 

00 AESIRICHD-P;~s undt;-18 not Mlm•lltcl unlt1smomp~rued by p~rt~t or idult gu~rd•~n 01 Re•eas.eo b-y COLUMBIA PICl URES 
YOUTH-DROPOUT THING SUCCESSFULLY! A DOUBLE RARITY" 
ROBERT CHISTGAU, VILLAGE VOICE 
"TERRIBLY POWERFUL! TER­RIBLY MOVING! IT GIVES ME CHILLS! 'EASY RIDER' EM­BODIES AN ENTIRE CULTURE ... ITS HEROES AND MYTHS. THAT'S WHAT'S MOST REAL ABOUT THIS Fl LM, IT DREAMS WELL LIKE A TRAVEL POSTER FOR THE NEW AMERICA! THE WORLD'S FIRST REAL PETER FONDA MOVIE! THE MOST VIVID EVOCATION OF CALI­
FORNIA HIP-UPTIGHT YOU'LL EVER SEE ON THE SCREEN!" 
RICHARD GOLDSTEIN, 
N. Y. TIMES 

several students to express their opinions on the Vietnam Mora­torium. The main idea behind the interviews was to determine if student attitudes toward the moratorium have changed since October. 
Senior Bob DeVita attended the Oct. 15 activities on campus. He felt that the program proved to be more worthwhile than he had expected. However, he felt that the moratorium is now be­coming meaningless since it con­sists of a lot of people "beating their breasts". Additional demonstrations, in his opinion would not improve things. 
Junior Dennis Sudjak felt that a lot of people interpreted the purpose of the rally to be an anti-ROTC. He said that the military is necessary for the safety of the country and that it is foolish to oppose the idea of having qualified leaders in it. He was disappointed that the resis­tance mass was so named. He felt that it should have been called a peace mass. He thought that he would probably attend Moratorium activities in South Bend this weekend but had hoped that something would have been planned at Notre Dame since it would have been interesting to see who would have come around the second 
time.  Sudjak  found  it  hard  to  
predict  what  will  happen  in  
Washington  this  weekend.  "I  

hope there are no bloody inci­
dents," he said, "because then I could see the conservative ele­ments clamping down on the universities." 
Sophomore Mike Ketterhagen felt that the October speeches were informative but one sided, since he had been lead to believe that the moratorium was going to be a discussion on the war. He thought that the Washington march would have some effect on younger people but would not cause the Nixon administra­tion to change its stand. If addi­tional speeches were to be held at Notre Dame he might attend them but would not cut any classes to do so. 
Some students also expressed negative views toward the activi-

Mastriana evaluates hall fellows program 
by Marty Graham Former Hall President Council Chairman Ron Mastriana stated yesterday that this year's Hall Fellows Program has gotten off to a very good start. "The program," he stated, "has ex­panded since last year to include five halls and a number of faculty members." Mastriana, who is presently a member of the Student Life Council, stated that the purpose of the Hall Fellows Program is to establish a closer tie between the students and faculty mem hers. He said, "Most students don't realize that the faculty is in­terested in what they are doing. This is a way of establishing ties between these two groups." The five halls that have begun to take part in the program are Morrissey, Farley, Cavanaugh, Breen-Phillips and Zahm. Mastri­

ana  said  that  these  halls  have  
already  gotten  together  with  
their hall fellows.  

Some of the faculty members who have taken part or plan to take part in these meetings are History Professor Samuel Sha­piro, Chemistry Professor Emil 
T. Hoffman, Father Ernest Bar­tell of the Economics Depart­ment, Psychology Professor John Borkowski and Lieutenant 
V.A. Meyers of the ROTC Naval 
THE STUDENT UNION 
SOCIAL COMMISSION 
INVITES YOU 
TO SHARE WITH THEM 
in a 

PEACEFUL 
NITE of FOLK MUSIC 

MORNINGLORY BRIGADE 
Authentically Merriweather 
THE THYMES 
FRI. NOV.14 

8:30 Ballroom Student Cent 
Free Admission 
ASS TO FOLLO 

ties of the Moratorium, con­tending that the idea behind the Moratorium is mistaken. They also disagreed with the way the activities were run. 
Sophomore Mike Koziol did not attend the October activities because he felt that classes were more important. He contended that many students had used the Moratorium as an excuse to get out of class. He didn't think that anything positive would come of the Moratorium. 
Freshman Steve Merkle said that the people behind the Mora­torium were not acting ~n a practical manner. They complain about the war, said Merkle, but have no worthwhile solutions. 
Science Department. 
Two of the halls presently participating in the program, Breen-Phillips and Zahm, met with some of their hall fellows last weekend. 
Hall member Joe Brehler stated that Breen-Phillips held a party last Saturday night for its 


Ron Mastriana hall fellows, their wives and students with dates. The partici­pants watched the Pitt game on B-P's new color TV and held an informal get-together after it. Brehler also stated that plans for future meetings between residents and faculty members are presently in the making. Zahm Hall President Phil Rice stated that his hall fellows were formally introduced to the stu­dents last Sunday. Rice stated1 "I was extremely surprised at the enthusiasm shown by both the faculty and the students." Rice also stated that plans have been made for the hall fellows to return this weekend for discussions on the Mora­torium. The Hall Fellows Program does not consist only of having the faculty come to the halls to meet with students. Mastriana stated, "Hall fellows will also attend mass with members of the halls, meet with them for lunch and invite students to dinner at their homes." Most of the halls are presently taking part in the freshman gab fest where faculty members invite freshmen to their homes for an informal dinner followed by discussions of such things as the problems the freshman may face in adapting to university 
Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, IncL. 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1969 THE O&rERUER. 
PAGE 3 

McCarthy rallies support for Selective CO 
by Dave Lammers 

Professor Charles McCarthy spoke to students last night on the proposed selective conscien­tious objector amendment to the draft law, and placed responsi­bility for support of the law squarely on the shoulders of students who will soon be facing the draft. 
The amendment would allow men to conscientiously oppose induction on the grounds that a particular war is unjust. The present law allows conscientious objection only to total pacifists who base their objection on religious beliefs. 
McCarthy explained that a draft lottery, which will soon be considered and most likely passed by Congress, will include all those who presently hold student deferments. The lottery will not draft 19-year-olds ex­clusively until five years from now. Unless a selective C.O. provision is included in the lottery, McCarthy pointed out, students who are now sopho­mores, juniors and seniors, will face the lottery without a selective C.O. option until July 
I,  1971,  when  major  draft  
reforms come due.  
McCarthy,  who  holds  a  law  

degree from Boston University, emphasized that a change in the law will only come about if students who face the present draft system mobilize their poli­tical influence. 
Mike Shaughnessy, Notre Daine's NSA representative, is presently in Washington to ex­plain the selective CO amend­ment to the National Student Association and the Committee to Repeal the Draft. Registered air mail letters are being sent to many Congressmen to ask for support of the amendment. Letters have been sent to news­paper editors and nationally syndicated columnists. Phil McKenna ha11 contacted people 

Prof. Charles McCarthy 
in Wa~hington and around the country, informing them of the draft amendment and asking for their support. 
Law School Professors Wil­liam Lewers and Thomas Schaefer spent all of last week researching the legal precedents of the selective conscientious objector amendment. The amendment to the draft law consists of adding the words "or to participation in a particular 
war or armed conflict then being 
waged by the United States." 
The Notre Dame lawyers spoke of the basic necessity of a selective conscientious objector provision in any draft law. Such a provision exists in most Euro­pean countries, notably Ger­many. The lawyers outlined the very unsatisfactory alternatives open to a person who presently objects to military duty in Vietnam on the grounds that the war is unjust. 

The present alternatives to a person who objects to the war on moral grounds are, "first, to go into the armed services and become a murderer; secondly, to go to jail; thirdly, perjure him­
self  by  saying  he  is· a  total  
pacifist;  fourthly,  leave  the  
country;  or  lastly,  to  cower in  

fear behind various draft defer~· ments hoping he can receive a physical injury he doesn't want or get a job he doesn't want in order to avoid being forced to be a murd..!rrer'' 
It was pointed out at the meeting that students from Notre Dame have influence in every state because of the geo­graphic distribution of the stu­dent body. It was judged by those attending the meeting that considerable political pressure can be placed upon the legisla­tors by student letter-writing possible to deny. 

"No one gives a damn about a selective C.O. law except those people who are going to be had by a lottery system without a selective C.O. provision. No senator, congressman, church official, or journalist can deny a man's right not to kill, if he considers that killing to be unjust," McCarthy said. 
Presently, 50,000 fliers are being distributed in Washington by a group of Notre Dame students. The fliers explain the 
necessity of the Selective C.O. 
provision and urge that letters be 
sent to Congressmen. A nation­wide petition for this draft amendment is being organized on the approximately 2200 college campuses in the United States. A petition here at Notre Dame is being organized by David Johnson, Zahm Hall sena­tor. A meeting to gather student support for the draft amend­ment is planned for Monday night at 9:00 in Room 127 of Nieuwland Science Hall. 
Students receive aid 
Fifty-four per cent of the undergraduate students at the University of Notre Dame are receiving some form of financial aid, the University's office of financial aid and scholarships has reported. 
The 1969-70 figure is only one per cent above that for 1968-69, but in terms of dollars, the increase is $300,354 for a total of $4,786,872. That total includes all types of financial aid available through the University, including regular scholarships, ROTC awards, grant-in-aid, tuition remission, University em­ployment, and federal, state and private grant and loan programs. 
A total of 3,320 under­graduates are receiving an average aid of $1,442 this aca­demic year, compared with com­parable figures of 3,217 students and $I ,400 last year. 

Freshman figures for 1969-70 are slightly below those for all under-graduates. Fifty-three per cent of Notre Dame's I 6SO first-year men receive a tot~! of $1,2IS,747 or an average of $1,400. 
Seventy-four of the 81 Notre Dame undergraduate black stu­dents (92 per cent) are receiving some form of financial assistance through the University. The total amount of aid for black students is $174,460, an average of $2,357 per student. 
campaigns. Professor McCarthy,----------------------------, 
also mentioned that the "moral rightness of the respect due to the individual conscience" is im-

Tank replaced, Apollo ready 
CAPE KENNEDY (UPI) ­
among those on hand at the Vice President Spiro T. Agnew

Workmen did the job that some 
Cape to see the launch. He'll be and the wives of two of the

feared "couldn't be done" yes­
accompanied by Mrs. Nixon, astronauts.

terday and put Apollo I 2 back 
on schedule for its II :22 a.m . .---------------------------J 
(EST) blastoff today on man's 
second  mission  to  the  ancient  
surface of the moon.  
Technicians  worked  around  

the clock to replace a faulty liquid hydrogen tank in the moonship which threatened the flight with a month delay. 
"At this time, conditions are all go," mission director Chester Lee said in an afternoon· briefing. 
Meanwhile, astronauts Charles "Pete" Conrad, Richard F. Gor­don and Alan L. Bean did some last minute tuning for their I 0-day $3 SO million expedition by zipping high over the moon­port in sharp-nosed T38 jet trainers. 
With the new hydrogen tank installed and filled with frigid liquid hydrogen fuel for the ship's electric generators, every­thing looked good for an on­time launch. If the three Navy commanders arc unable to get off by 3: SO p.m. (EST) today they will be grounded until Dec. 14. 
Showers and occasional flashes of lightning occurred in the moonport area yesterday and weathermen predicted showers, low clouds and 23­mil~t'-an-hour winds for launch time. These conditions were ac­ceptable for blastoff but may ruin the view for thousands of persons gathering in the area to watch the shot. President Nixon will be 

Appllcatlons are now being accepted for the following positions: 
OBSERVER BUSINESS MANAGER 
OBSERVER ACCOUNT ANT 

AD SALESMEN 
Send resume to: 
THE OBSERVER BOX II NOTRE DAME,IND. 
46556 


Anyone who wishes to serve as a student representative on the University Forum must submit an application to the Secretary of the Student Senate by 5:00 p.m. Tuesday, November 18. Place your application in the Student Government Office, 3rd floor, LaFortune. 
To a Gypsy Moth ••• jumping isn't only a way to live ••• but a helluva way to die, too! 

CO· starrinc Gene Hackman .Scott Wilson .William Windom Screenplay By William Hanley Based on a Story By James Drought Executive Producer Edward Lewis f>.r~duced By Hal ~nders and Bobby Roberts Directed by John Frank~heimer • Metrotolor Q MGM 
SEE IT SOON AT A THEATRE NEAR YOU! 
r 
PAGE 4 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1969 




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 

FOUNDED NCVEMBER 3. 1966 


Challenge 

For the next few days, Americans are going to be experiencing the agonies and excitement of two of the most striking events of this decade: the astronauts flight to the moon and moon walk and the Vietnam Moratorium. 
The space flight is the result of a country unified in body and spirit striving to satisfy a dream that many had considered impossible. The Moratorium represents the opposite, a country divided in aims and now apparently in spirit, so badly shaken that it may never recover. 
We believe that these two events allow the nation the much needed opportunity to see the best and the worst of America at the same time. More importantly, they give the nation a chance to discover the reason for the great disparity. 
After the first moon landing last July, there was much talk of reviewing our priorities. Many argued that space flights should be low on the list. They felt that solving problems at home was more important than exploring space and resources should be channeled toward pressing human needs at. the expense of the space program. 
We believe that space flights should not be relegated to a 
low priority. The unquenchable spirit of adventure and ' 
curiosity .that have been the primary reason behind many 
of the great achievements of mankind should not be 
denied to modem man. Space exploration manifests that 
spirit. Indeed, many people feel that the basic cause of our 
nations ills is the lack of new challenges and horizons for 
the average person. 
Space exploration has harnessed the spirit of adventure 
and curiosity to produce a drive and a determination that 
has awed the rest of the world. We believe that the same 
forces can be the catalysts for a new united, national drive 
to eradicate the problems that separate us. The space 
flights prove that with determination we can do the 
"impossible"; now we must begin to work at home. 
It is quite obvious that our social problems have not been solved and there is not much evidence that anyone is trying very hard to solve tbem on the scale that is needed. We are bogged down in a war on foreign soil that has sapped the will and strength of America. There is no promise of relief from the financial problems that our big cities are experiencing. Like a drought they become more critical and ominous with the passing of time. There is no promise of a cutback in the defense budget to alleviate our cities' needs. 
It has been two and a half years since the Kerner 
Commission Report and not one significant step has been 
taken to implement its suggestions. Perhaps what some 
have suggested is true: that America can put a man on the 
moon more easily than we can feed the hungry or heal the 
sick or help the disadvantaged. We sincerely hope not. 
Some have suggested that we have placed space flight 
too high on our list of priorities, above finding solutions to 
our earthly problems. We do not believe this is so. 
We believe that those Americans who are disgruntled 
with life because they feel there are no more challenges 
and no new horizons are sadly ignorant of those that exist. 
Astronaut Conrad has said that today will mark the 
"opener of the next generation." We hope that all 
Americans will make today the opener of a new era 
in American life. 
c.w. 

David Breen, Bull,.. Manager  Features Editor: Dave Stauffer  The  opinions  in  the  edltoriall,  
Timothy J. Dineen, Ad.MIJ". News Editor: Glenn Cono Copy Editor: Dwld Stlluffer ~Editors: Cliff Wlntrode, AM ConWIY, Laura Hlifard, Jeanne  Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Night Editor: Phil Bosco_ Asst. Night Editors: Gustafson, Tim Treanor  Tom  news analyes, .and columns of Ttye Observer are solely those of tt. authors and editors of The Observer, and do not necessarily reflect the' views of St. Mary's College, the Unlr  
Sweenev.  Headlines:  Phil  Schatz,  Dave  venity of Notre Dame, their admini•  
l.eyout Editor: Mery Bath Crlmmlnt'  Bach  trations,  faculty  or  student  
SMC  News  Editor:  Prudence"·  Layout Design: Buz Craven  bodia  
W~ar  Layout: Mike Bridgeman, Susie  
Photo Editor: Mike Murphy  Bury  


But aon, with puietals enforced, Notre Dame will keep its good reputation. 
l.eHers 
Far from Political 
Dear Fellow Students; The letter written by T.C. & 
M.W. is indeed a timely one. From the content of the letter, it is undoubtedly clear that T.C. & M.W. 's political commitment is anti-Chinese as well as against the regime of Chiang-kai-Shek. Hence, it is understandable why he requested anonymity for the safety of his family back in Taiwan. 
If the aim of the letter was to boycott the "China Day" activities, it is certainly well thought out. There is no question that it may arouse the passions and convictions of Chinese, specifically, "Taiwanese" who may have similar commitments as T.C. & M.W. For the others, who are neither "Taiwanese", nor "Mainlanders", in Taiwan, nor Chinese at all, the letter creates a misleading impression, and provokes feelings ranging from curiousity to indignation. 
The problem if any, is one of nationalism. One localized in Taiwan. The organization of the Chinese Student Association is neither political nor regional. It was meant to be an organization for all the Chinese students in the South Bend community. The goals and aims of the Chinese Association, like many other organizations are social, academic, cultural, and FAR from political. Its membership is open to Chinese who come from all parts of the world, not just Taiwan, but Hong Kong, Macao, Thailand, Malaysia, the Philippines, Panama, and the United States. 
Overseas Chinese students have a different set of reference systems, shaped by the political, economic, social, and cultural background of the country they grow up in. As such, they are not overly concerned about the political atmosphere in Taiwan. Therefore, to say that the "China Day" activities are 
"political" is a gross indictment. Nothing could be farther from the truth. 
What is political about a documentary film on Chinese dance, or for that matter harmonica playing, a trio performing a piece by Hadyn, or a display of pillow cases? To the question "Why does 'China Night' have to match its schedule with the activities at St. Mary's College?" We ask why not? 
It is thus obvious that T.C. & 
M.W. is exploiting a cultural event to make their personal political points. 
Facts are facts, we know what is true, we leave it to you to decide yourselves. 
Sincerely, The Notre Dame and St, Mary's Chinese Association 
Racism Rapes 
Editor: 
We write with handkerchiefs in hand and tears streaking down our cheeks. We regret that we are not as fortunate as Mr. Jeselnick, in that we must live with "the Problem." We too have come in innocence to this university a.s freshmen this year, but w.e came with the attitude that this university existed to seek solutions to, rather than to hide from, the problems. We are sorry that Mr. Jeselnick's "Real NO community" has been raped by the reality of racism. But we must point out that the problem was here before Mr. Jeselnick arrived and it is an unfortunate oversight that it was not listed for him in the University catelogue. Since he does not accept the reality of the problem, he, in his letter, typifies the essence of the problem (racism). That attitude is the Problem. 
In the Christian spirit, we have nothing against Mr. Jeselnick personally, but his actions and attitudes are what we in true conscience must attack. 
Joe Schlosser, '7 3 
Jim Sweitzer, '73 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1969 THE OBSERVER 
PAGE 5 



'... go, go, get 'em, get 'em, 000, ah ••• ' 
by Sue Bury 

Last spring, Notre Dame broke trad­ition by adding four St. Mary's girls to the cheerleading squad. (One point for the liberated woman.) After several weeks of try-outs and practices, personal inter­views with the girls were conducted and Molly Tiernan, Ann Stringer, Terry Buck, and Missy McCrary were selected. 
The idea to have girls on the squad .originated about six years ago, according to lJel Pitts, head cheerleader. Girls were selected and ready to go out onto the field when the decision was made to wait until full student approval was obtained. 
The Student Senate approved the idea in 1967, but by a close vote which resulted in a student referendum. That vote carne to a tie and so the girls first appearance was delayed again 
Cheerleader Davy Jones initiated the idea again last year and the Senate passed it. This time there were no delays and SMC made its official debut. 
Molly Tiernan described the students' reaction to girl cheerleaders as, "99 to I 00% favorable. There are always one or two who don't like it but the reaction has been mostly complimentary." 
I asked Molly how we in the stands look from her position on the field. "You look good. It's exuberating to see the mass student body. At away games we look at faces we don't recognize. You look united, friendly, and colorful." 
The men on the squad are Danny Clem~nts, Roger Crasca, Pat Weber, Kevin Chism ire, Tom McGowan, Ed Mattingly, and Jess McDonnell. 
Jess talked about the expectations held for the girls. "We were hoping that the crowd would be enthusiastic enough not !o take it out on the team-not boo 
because a girl was leading the cheer. We 
thought the guys would like it." 
Jess also told me that one of the main 
criteria for selecting the girls was the 
sincerity of their smiles. 
lie! said, "I have yet to have a 
detrimental comment. Only one alumnus 
said something like, 'I can't believe it.' " 
The cheerleaders make up all the routines they do and the girls have contributed much in this area. Jess said that some proposals for next year include a squad of six boys and six girls and that more tumbling would be included in the routines. 
lJcl will be turning in his saddle shoes this year, and he added that his suggestions for the next season will include evening out the boy-girl ratio on the squad and the number selected from each class. 
We talked about the Vikings and I found out that the Vikings do not throw things. 
lJel said," The Vikings are the biggest cheering section. We're glad they're there. They're our biggest followers and we're theirs." 
Molly pointed out that it is the people behind the Vikings that throw things during the game. "When Notre Dame gets so much ahead, the fans get bored and turn to something else." (Tommv Ehrbar never did get his paper airplane down on the field during Navy.) 
Jess thinks the Vikings are great. "They will stir enthusiasm. We have a fantastic student body. They have a different kind of enthusiasm. It's sub­dued, but it's there." 
ND-SMC has one more chance to demonstrate enthusiasm at Air Force. 
" ... go,go,get 'em, get 'em, ooo, ah ..... " 


by John Stupp 
Medium Cool. Part documentary, part fiction, twisted somehow into the con­temporary supra-reality. It's the non­fiction novel coming into a self-conscious life on the screen, it's the Chicago police purge and news media fanning the blaze, it's the black revolution viewed through a monocular eye, it's smoldering Appala­chian poverty transplanted in a Northern slag heap, it's scores of frightened, forgotten white women practicing on a pistol range, it's the self-defense mechan­ism of a nation viewed through a convulsive roller-derby spasm. It's about heat, it's about fire, violence-it's about people, and indifference. It's our own trip. 
It's watchers watching watchers, the television camera following another tele­vision camera, it's a roving movie about a movie, and a statement about the relation between a T.V. cameraman and the events around him. You've seen him before ... you know the old story ... you've all seen it, he films and scrams. Hit and run. He's like a brain surgeon, he can't get emotionally involved in his work, he's a picture taking machine. He pops up everywhere ... the 6 o'clock news, the II o'clock news, he's turned you on, again and again. He's everywhere the action is, but he's not a part of it. Or is he? Is he just like the rest of us? Mere spehators? Does he ever stop filming, and look outside the lens at what's really happening? 
Haskell Wexler is a cinematographer, and a good one. He won an Academy Award for his work in Who's Afraid of 
Virginia Woolf? Now he's directed and filmed Medium Cool. His first film. A cameraman filming a movie about a cameraman. Watchers watching watchers. 
in the midst of violence, the cameraman-just another spectator? On the outside, like us? 
When a black militant throws a rock through a window, he lives in front of millions on T.V. He's a one man revolution. In our bourgeois world Ne sit in wonder, and watch him on the set ... he's thrown that rock at us. 
When demonstrations rock a city, their force is felt throughout the world on TV, in the living rooms of millions, eyes fixed on the tube, junkies hooked on speed ... violence, waiting for the fix. Removed from any responsibility to act ... 
TV cameraman-just a spectator? Not involved? Aloof in the midst of turmoil? Medium Cool makes the choice. All of us, enmeshed in the media web ... look out, it's real. 
Medium Cool-Washington Hall, Satur­day and Sunday, 2 and 8 p.m. Swallow it. It's a real trip. Be careful. 
Never satisfied with a second-hand view, Tom Ehrbar is in Washington, D.C. to tak~ part in the Moratorium activities. 
Although we're sure he is participating with a somewhat more subdued attitude, he may still come up with a look at the lighter side of the proceedings. 
Medium Cool. National Guardsmen surround to make mass arrest at Berkeley. 
-----~--------------------~~----------~-----·····-------­
PAGE 6 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1969 
THE ASSOCIATION 
-

Friday November 21 8:30 PM 
A thletle and Convocation Center 
Rc·serwJ seats at $5. S4. S2 will he on sail' Mon. & lues. in the D1ning ll.!lls. Also on sail' now at 
~.JlheJt's. Bookstore. i\.C.C. Box Ofl"~~:c. 
Presented by STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION 
No One will be seated after the performance begins 
59( 

Dead vet's wife leads March 
(Continued from page 1) 

at street corners as they headed for the historic Pennsylvania Avenue fences at the White House where Nixon and his family spent the evening. 
They were led by the 23­year-old widow of a Navy lieu­tenant killed in Vietnam and they marched to the mournful cadence of seven drummers. 
The first official activity of the "New Mobe" demonstration began in near dusk a few hours after Nixon had paid a personal unexpected visit to the House and Senate to personally thank 

Burger King. Home of the Whopper. 
'"". 
SOUTH BEND-~ 
congressional supporters of his Vietnam efforts for peace with honor. 
Most of the marchers were young, often bearded, but or­derly. The organizers of the pro­test had assigned parade mar­shals of their own to help avoid conflict. 
The march set out from the edge of Arlington National Cemetery, crossed the Potomac to the Lincoln Memorial, then proceeded to the White House. As they reached the avenue in front of the Executive Mansion, the chatter of the protestors 
• 
subsided. Some of the candles lit at Arlington had blown out. Others were sheilded from the Novem­ber wind by anti-war pamphlets carried by the protestors. 
Coffee venders set up business on the route from the cemetery to the White House. Salesmen peddled peace buttons at street intersections. 
The marshals trained by the anti-war organizers rode motor­cycles and kept entreating the marchers to keep up the pace as they neared the White House. 
Peace Corps preparation is expanded 
Officials of the Peace Corps 
and the State University of New 
York College at Brockport an­
nounced completion of arrange­
ments for continuing and ex­
tending the unique Peace Corps/ 
College Degree Program in order 
to admit a fourth group of can­
didates in June, 1970. The mem­
bers of the first contingent com­
pleting the fifteen-month pro­
gram, which combines upper di­
vision undergraduate education 
with Peace Corps preparation, 
are now serving on bi-national 
educational development teams 
in the Dominican Republic. The 
second group is now serving in 
similar assignments in Peru and 
Honduras, and the third group is 
now in the academic year phase 
of this joint project and is slated 
for overseas assignment in Latin 
America, 1970. 
The candidates will be select­
ed from the ranks of students in 
good standing at an accredited 
college who are completing their 
sophomore or junior year by 
June, 1970. Those selected will 
be able to earn an A.B. or B.S. 
degree and be eligible for a Peace 
Corps assignment in one acade­
mic year flanked by two sum­
mers of fully subsidized and 
integrated acadell_l_ic courses and 
Peace Corps training. 
They are expected to major in mathematics or the sciences; those who have completed their junior year prior to entrance into the program have an oppor­tunity for a double-major. 
"This integrated program is based on our two fold convic­tion that (I) to combine the college and Peace Corps experi­ences is to make both more relevant and meaningful and the personal product more valuable 
(2) to provide much-needed skilled specialists-mathematics and science teachers-as Peace 
Corps Volunteers in Latin Amer­ica is to make a significant con­tribution to all concerned," said President Albert Warren Brown, of the State University College at Brockport in announcing the extension. of the partnership. 
Vaitto speak 
ThomjVail, publisher of the Clevelarie(, Plain Dealer, will speak ~·t.1''The Implications of Carl St · . " at 8 p.m. Wednes­day (No·;. 19) in the University of Notre Dame's Washington Hall. 

Stokes, the first Negro to be elected mayor of a major Ameri­can city, was re-elected in Cleve­land by a narrow margin earlier this month. 
The talk, which is open to the public, is sponsored by the Stu­dent Union Academic Commis­sion. 




FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1969 
Letters to the editor 
Quid Qua O'Connor 

Editor: 
During his recent visit here, David Dellinger pointed out that one's religion must be in his politics and his politics in his religion or neither has any validity. one should not mistake that suggestion for a sanction to willy-nilly apply easy phrases about politics and religion to the thought of any man. In your lead story today ("N D profs propose draft amendments," The Observer, November 12), it seems that just that was done by calling John Courtney Murray and Paul Ramsay "right-wing theologians." It is exceptionally unfortunate that the story was confusing as to the source of that designation. I sincerely hope that, Mr. McCarthy was not. Hut a few distinctions hould 
be  made  here,  simply  for  
clarity's sake.  
In  the  first  place,  Paul  

Ramsay is a Protestant and John Courtney Murray was a Catholic, in fact, a Jesuit. They were both considerable theologians during the forties and fifties, but beyond that had little to do with one another. Father Murray was not only not a right wing theologian, he was a rather left-wing theologian; one of his most prominent associations was with the Fund for the Republic, the mother institution of the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions. I do this it is entirely accurate to call Paul Ramsay a right-winger, although the term is probably more apt in his case. 
The central problem is that these two men are in a tradition which is in great danger of being abandoned these days in the all talk about Christ qua anarchist they were serious theologians who were considering political problems ten or twenty years ago, when such was not the reage. And they did not commit the mistake of so many theologian~ were then glanced at politics: they knew what they were talking about. They came out of a liberal political tradition signalled by George Orwell's famous observation that "War is evil and it is often the lesser evil.'. That is certainly a tradition that we in our sheer desperation must go beyond, but it is a respectable one and does not deserve such a revolting dismissal as "right-wing theologians." The entire tone of the passage mentioning their endorsement of selective conscientious objection would lead one to believe that their endorsement was considerable not because they wer intelligent men, but simply because they were lost in ahat darkness of conservativism. We are lost in the darkness now and Christ will not come shining through to enlighten us just because we call on him. There is no light in the offing and while we may be 
justified in not looking back to the forties and fifties for our theology, we might as well admit that those decades were a fool's paradise to our hell. 
There  is  something  cheap  
about  the  rhetorical  moral  
superiority  of  calling  John  
Courtney  Murray  and  Paul  
Ramsay  "right  wing  

theologians" and there is something sneering and proud; there is no point in cheapening what little we have now. 
Sincerely, 
Michael Patrick O'Connor 
Strike-out 

Editors: 
With all the charges, counter charges and so forth coming out of the G E strike, I am rather perplexed by what passes logic. For example, GE maintains that its original offer was inflationary so that the union's demand is exorbitant. This was in a newspaper ad, so it is obvious that GE wants the public to think that GE is responsible while the union is not. But if GE is responsible, why would it make an inflationary offer? Why is GE responsible if it makes an inflationary offer but the union is irresponsible if it makes an inflationary offer? Is this sort of argument that GE stooped to a sign of responsibility? 
And now we come to the union. It "justifies'. its request on the fact that the cost of living has increased. But what caused this increase? Inflation caused by increased taxes and increased wages without increased (proportionally) production. 
While we're looking at the union, let's examine some union rules and goals. In some states, there is a "right to work" law which states that an individual has the right to work for a company (or whatever) without being forced to join a union. Great idea, isn't it, the union will be forced to truly represent the workers, people will join only if they want to. The unions 
(i.e. AFL-CIO et al.) oppose it. In fact, some unions, notably construction unions, use their power to blackball members to exclude non-white members which means that many blacks, Mexican-Americans, etc. actually cannot work in states where there is no "right to work" law no matter how badly they may want to work. Then the union members complain about high welfare costs and say many of the people could be out working. On top os this, amny unions penalize industrious workers who make mediocre workers look, well, mediocre. 
I am not saying that the unions or GE are ogres. I am saying that neither the unions nor GE (or any other management) are far from being the Incarnation of Good and that accordingly, people should begin to question both the practices of management and the practices of unions. 
Sincerely, John F. Kurtzke 212 Lyons 

DOW-CIA DEMONSTRATION 
NOVEMBER 18-19 

THE OBSERVER 


B 
0 
T 
H 
THE POT SHOW 
4 j'eatures that will Blow your mind 
&I,WMWSrffiilroJ0lM
•'lR«!
i 
-•moFONDA·jllW'STRASB~RG 
2 
3 

4 
"MARY JANE 


MEWANNA 
GE.TTUM 
BUFFAL-O WE.L-L1 CHIE~ THE (i)VtCK.ESr WAVTO GET 8llFFAt.O 15 
-ro DIAL. i AND
-

AREA CODE 71~

Get outta town without leaving campus. The lowest long distance rates are in effect every school night after 7 p.m. and a// day Saturdays and Sundays. 
@Indiana Bell 
Use your long distance calling number. Save time. Dial your own calls. 

~ 
~$:-· 
,. 
? 
... 
:., 
0 

il. 
~ .~·..... 
,...!;! 
.,+·
'"1 
-~-· 
:.....S'f.
i ·'•
;­

.<.w.'· 
~­'~·~;·I 
,,
,.. ·' 

THE OBSERJJER 
PAGE 8
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1969 

Atlanta: emotion and people with connections 
The polls are beginning to wear me a little thin. There is no reason on earth why Notre  And Tech hammered USC for 57 minutes before going down 29-18. Yet last week, the Green  Saturday. Quarterback Joe Theismann had a great day throwing against Pitt, complet­ John Gasser, and Ralph Stepan­iak have 22 Passes-Broken-Up between them.  As an added attraction, you can bet everything including your peace beads that there'll be  
Dame should have been dropped in both wire-service ratings this week. Is Ohio State that much  Wave of Tu!?::e dumped Tech 14-7. It's weird. The basic trouble with the  ing 9-1 I for I 26 yards and three touchdowns. Ed Ziegler, Denny Allan, and Bill Barz continue to  Despite Tech's seemingly dis­mal prospects, look for a tough first half. Emotion plays a big  important people with bowl connections in the stands Satur­day night. Bids come out  

better than anyone else because pile up yardage and reserve officially this Monday night and
Georgia Tech offense is that part in sophomore perfor­
of the intrinsic merit of the team backs Bill Etter, Mike Crotty, mances. In Atlanta two years maybe then we'll see just how
there isn't any. Brent Cunning­

or because it can run up 52 and Jim Yoder each have over ago, the Jackets surprised ND true all those rumors are about
ham and Steve Harkey are solid,

points against a fourth-rate I 00 yards gained this season. and took a 3-0 lead in the first the Irish heading south for the
four-yards-per-carry runners;

team? Just because Ara Par­The defense finally lost their quarter before losing 36-3. winter.
Jack Williams and Charley Du­

seghian tries to keep some shutout string, but seven points
dish are 50% completion passers; 

element of courtesy in the game in three games is still rather ......................11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
yet the Yellowjackets are aver­

by holding down scores, should good, especially when the of­
aging only 244 yards total 

he be penalized? fense supplies 133. Mike McCoy
offense per game. This is a little Anyway, tomorrow night at and Bob Olson have combined
more than half of Notre Dame's 

9:30 p.m. (the starting time to throw runners for 104 yards
average production. Cunninghamshouldn't conflict with the in losses, while Clarence Ellis,
has 357 yards this year and tight 

1~IRISH EYE
ND-Windsor hockey game) end Steve Foster has caught 18 
Notre Dame goes on national for yards.
passes I 95 Dudish,television against Georgia Tech. 

who is not listed as a starter for The Irish hockey team opens 
By Mike Pavlin, sports editor Let's hope that if Ara continues 
Saturday, is 33-65 for 290 yards, its regular season at home this to pursue his present policy (and but a rather poor 8.8 yards per Saturday night agail)St a tough lllltJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I 11111111 IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIIIIIIIIIIII I, for one, am all for it), the Irish 
completion. Williams is I 8-34 Windsor team. The match has 
aren't dropped right out of the and 201 yards. Tech's trouble been moved up to 7:00p.m. so Awards for the seniors Top Twenty for merely winning 
seems to be that they just don't as not to conflict with the Senior Class President Jack Crawford"has announced that a specialand not winning 60-0. 
run enough plays, either because NO-Georgia Tech football game award will be presented to both the outstanding senior offensive,Tech is a weird team. And this they never have the ball or which starts at 9:30. Although and defensive player on the 1969 football squad. The award will be is because sophomores arc weird because they can never keep a ticket prices for general admis­part of a ceremony honoring the seniors on the team which will takeand Tech has lots of them. 
drive going (Tommy Chapman sion seats have been raised to place before and at half-time of the Notre Dame-Air Force contest,Sophs are known to do impos­has punted 51 times). $1.50, ND students can still get the last home game of the season.
sible things at the most inoppor­Either way, the pressure each in for $1.00. G A tickets can be Crawford says that head coach Ara Parseghian is very enthusiastic tune times, while other times week ultimately rides on the purchased at the door. about the idea and has given his permission for the ceremony. Beforecoming up with the sparkling defense. Tech has given up 328.9 the game, the seniors on the squad will be introduced individually.
play when least expected. Or so yards per game, I 88.9 through 1111111111111111111111111111 During half-time, the special plaques will be presented. 
the legend goes. 

the air. The pass defense, how­Voting for the first annual Senior Award is, however, open toThe Y ellowjackets certainly ever, is not without strength. Notre Dame's freshman foot­ALL students. Please fill out the form below and send it to Jack have performed up to legend this Jeff Ford has picked off seven ball team closes its season with a Crawford, 449 Morrissey, by Wednesday. The purpose of the award year. Fielding a team with nine passes this year for 157 return match against Michigan this is to honor the top two players to emerge from the class of 1970.
starting sophs, they have played yards and two TD's. In fact, Saturday at I :00 p.m. The Irish heroically against bigger and with three interceptions against are 0-2 and the Wolverines 0-1. THIS YEAR'S SENIORS (including prep squad)better teams only to fall flat Tulane, the Tech defense has Both have lost to Michigan
against weaker opposition. OFFENSE
already tied the school record of State, ND 21-7 and MichiganDespite fumbling seven times, 23. 23-21. Tickets are $1.00 for Terry Brennan Mike Oriard Jim deArrieta Tech forced powerful Tennessee It looks as though the Yellow­students. Dewey Poskon Nick Furlong Jim Reilly to scrap for a 26-8 win. A field jacket defense will be in for Tom Gores Jim Ruzicka George Kellygoal with a few seconds left got another tough 60 minutes on Paul Snow Charles Kennedy Ed ZieglerAuburn past the Jackets 17-14. 
Tom Lawson Jeff Zimmerman Bob McConn 
DEFENSE

The line-ups-south for the winter? 
John Gasser Bob Olson Bob Jockisch Don Reid Steve Lambert Larry Schumacher NOTRE DAME OFFENSE NOTRE DAME DEFENSE GEORGIA TECH Brian Lewallen Jay Standring Mike McCoy Phil Wittliff Jim Merlitti Jay Ziznewski
DEFENSE 
Tom Nash

SE Tom Gatewood LE Walt Patulski 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
LT Jim Reilly LT Mike McCoy END Bruce Rutherford 
1969 SENIOR AWARD
LG Larry DiNardo RT Mike Kadish LT Rock Perdoni c Mike Oriard RE Fred Swendsen RT Tim Broome RG Charles Kennedy LOLB Tim Kelly END Randy Duckworth Your Name RT Terry Brennan LILB Larry Schumacher LOLB Dave Beavin Your Campus Ad,>· _ 
TE Tom Lawson RILB Bob Olson LILB Buck Shiver Offensive player QB Joe Theismann ROLB John Raterman RILB John Riggle 
Defensive playerLHB Ed Ziegler LHB Clarence Ellis ROLB David Polk 
SEND TO JACK CRAWFORD, 449 MORRISSEY, BY WED.
RHB Denny Allan LH Rick Lewis
RHB Ralph Stepaniak 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
FB Bill Barz RH Jeff Ford
SA John Gas$er 

Notre Dame over Georgia Tech-by 24.
SA Mike Wysong 
Miami over Alabama-by 3.
Jay Anderson 

Auburn over Georgia-by 7. GEORGIA TECH Tennessee over Mississippi-by 10. OFFENSE Arkansas over SMU-by 17. 
Texas Tech over Baylor-by 14. Texas A&M over Rice-by 10.
SE Larry Studdard 
Pitt over Army-by 13. 
LT Allen Vezey 
Delaware over Boston U.-by 21. 

LG Joe Vitunic Syracuse over Navy-by I 0. c John Callan Wisconsin over Illinois-by 3. RG Mike Bradley Indiana over Northwestern-by 7. 
Michigan over Iowa-by 13.
RT AI Hutko 
Minnesota over MSU-by 7. 
TE Steve Foster 

Ohio State over Purdue-by 13. QB Jack Willim Stanford over Air Force-by 10. QB Jack Williams Colorado over Oklahoma State-by 10. 
Oklahoma over Kansas-by 13.

TB Brent Cunningham 
Kansas State over Nebraska-by 1.
FL Herman Lam 

Utah State over BYU-by 6. RHB Denny James Oregon State over Washington State-by I 0. 
LAST WEEK: Winners, Won 13, Lost 7, Tied 3 .650 The Irish are hoping to begin 
Point Spreads, Won 10, Lost 13 .435 Saturday's game like they did SEASON: Winners, Won 139, Lost 55, Tied 5 .716 last week. Mike Crotty waited Point Spreads, Won 86, Lost 113 .432 
for an opening kick which took a high hop in front of him. Leaping, he grabbed the ball and rambled straight upfield for 39 yards to the Pitt 45. Panther Bob Baier! (81) cuts over in pursuit. It was the longest kick­off return of the season for ND. 





