
VOL. IV, No. 44 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1969 
Team votes to play 1n• the Cotton Bowl 
Notre Dame will announce terday morning saying that al­on whether they wished to parti­this afternoon that it will be though the bids were not offi­cipate in any post season contest playing in its first post season cially to he given until today, at all. Informed sources stated howl game since llJ25 in the the Cotton bowl hid was all that the team's feelings on the Cotton Bowl on January 1, Notre Dame's if she wanted it. matter were requested so that 
where the Irish will play the "the university would not be
These same sources say thatwinner of the December 6th wasting its time by changing the
Parseghian, who has publiclydash between Texas and Arkan­stated his support for a post rule if the players didn't want to sas. 
season appearance, told the offi­go to a bowl."
Although university and 
Informed sources say the
cials that he would wait until theathletic department officials re­
team vote that night before Irish will start practicing for the
fused to comment last night on re­
New Year's Day classic on Dec­
lating a decision to the officials.
the statement that will be issued 
ember 16th in either Phoenix,
According to reliable sourcestoday, it is not secret that the 
Arizona, or Miami, Florida. Prac­
the team voted last night touniversity decided long ago that 
tices will be held until around
accept an invitation to the gameit would change its long standing 
the 20th when the players will
at Dallas. These same sources saypolicy this year. The change is 
that Parseghian then went to see be sent home for Christmas. 
primarily due to the University 
Hesburgh and returned telling Practice will resume immediatelyfinding itself facing a debt bet­after Christmas.
the team that Notre Dame was ween $500,000 and $1,000,000. 
definitely going. There is also a possibility that 1nformed reports state that 
The team's vote was the sec­the team will go on a short Ara Parseghian, head football ond that they have cast on the vacation after the Cotton Bowl coach, received a telephone call issue this year. Earlier in the until classes resume on January 
from Cotton Bowl officials yes-year the team was asked to vote 6th. 
Violence blamed on both sides 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-The ector of the New Mobilization swept down the streets, lobbing sponsors of the mass march and Commitee to End the War in tear gas and pepper gas grenades 
rally in Washington and the U.S. Vietnam, responded to the as they went. Police said 135 attorney general exchanged charge at a news conference that persons were arrested Thursday charges of blame Sunday for the already had been scheduled through Saturday, 115 for dis­
violence that occurred during with: "That's a lie." Young said, orderly conduct. the rally Saturday. "The major part of the blame 
In a speech Saturday, in the love, hope, and compassion, hutAttorney General John N. for the confusion of last evening "I see no reason to condone Center for Continuing Educa·
Mitchell said, "The blame for has to be laid on the government the illegal actions of a hard core he saw hope for future genera­
tion, Thomas Wells, representing 
the violence must lie primarily and its delay in giving the per­of militants merely because they tions. lie saw in the campus the Kennedy family, applauded rebels and the militants of to­
with the New Mobilization Com­mits." Other leaders indicated were undertaken during a peace the concern of modern youth, day, the leaders of tomorrow.
mittee" because it "aided this they felt the police caused the demonstration," Mitchell said. 
and criticized both the Vietnam Bobby Kennedy loved young
violence through a combination outbreaks of violence Saturday. 
"I am pleased that the great War and military spending in people and respected theirof inaction and affirmative ac­After the violence at the Jus­
majority of participants obeyed general. thoughts and ideals. The greatesttion." Ron Young, project dir-tice Department, police squads 
the law. Unfortunately, the plan­He addressed the members of tribute that we could pay to ned demonstrations were marred the Robert F. Kennedy Memori­Robert Kennedy today, is to by such extensive physical in­al Leadership Conference in the continue to be aware of the jury, property damage and street auditorium of the center at problems, not only of today, but confrontations that I do not I 0: 15 a.m. He described Ted the problems that are going to 
Chimes budget suddenly cut; 
Forces more belt tightening believe that, overall, the gather­Kennedy as being sympathetic plague, not only the youth of ing here can be characterized as to the problems of the youth, as tomorrow, but the whole world
by Pruc Wear 
peaceful." his brother had been. as well. We must act to solve 
St. Mary's News Editor 
He opened his address with a these problems. The United Sta­It was revealed last week that made by the Chimes staff to Young added that former At­
description of Bobby Kennedy's tes can be a better place to live". 
the SMC Board of Trustees Fin­make this year's issues the best torney General Ramsey Clark, concern: Wells quoted Senator Tedyet, Markle said. "They were to
ancial Committee unexpectedly who is heading a commission to 
"Robert Kennedy cared about 
Kennedy, "We do not need rhe­

cut the budget for the Saint be very artistically done, sophis­study the activities of the three youth. lie not only had great toric. We need action. WithoutMary's literary magazine Chimes ticated, and first-rate produc­days, including the violence, ex­expectations for youth-he had it, the youth of this country willby nearly 50%, forcing the publi­tions. Now, they cannot possibly pected to issue a report in the 
an honest and sincere trust in cation to totally renovate its be." coming weeks. (/'lease tum to paKe 3)
them. In them he not only saw 
plans for the 1969-70 year. "Tht: Chimes will be reduced According to Kay Markle, to what it was five years ago. 

CPA plans Dow and CIA protest
Chimes l·:ditor, the magazine was We'll have to go back to the old told in early September that its 6" X 9" pamphlet with rough by Cliff Wintrode budget would be $5100, includ-. paper finish. And, probably, we Dow Chemical and CIA cam­
made to make some type of an American dependent econo­
ing the $400 allotment from the won't be able to use photo­pus recruiters will be greeted decision or at least think about my.
Academic Commission. Plans• graphy." again this year by a campus the ideas being expressed by the "I think the nationalistic had been made in view of that. The main problem, according protest on Tuesday and Wednes­demonstrators." movement is strong in EuropeThe new budget will leave to Markle, is that, with the day under the direCtion of the Windel charged that Dow be­and I think we ought to take it is them with an approximate total reduction, important corners Coalition for Political Action. sides their production of napalm an indication that we arc no of $2600, and preliminary plans will have to be cut. 
No specifics have been decid­is taking p<~rt in a "moderate longer wanted," said Windel. 
will have to he discarded. She mentioned that it was at 
ed on for the protest and accord­Windel also said that Dow
type of imperialism" by theirleast fortunate that no contracts
Markle said, "The most frus­ingly no pt:rmit to allow a de­corporate investments in Europe investments in apartheid South
had as yet been drawn. And she
trating thing about this mess is monstration has been obtained and are expressing support for Africa express support for the
stated that, "If we go into debt
just the way the arts get screwed according to Chris Windel, the oppressive governments in South white minority government 
anyway they will take it off next
time after time. The Juggler, primary organizer of the protest. w hilc investments in South
Africa and South America.
year's budget."
tht:n us. This is always what they Windel commented on what The CIA is objectionable for America demand the support of 
the only publica­

Chimes was he would like to see happen
can cut and get away with it." its activities in cases like the the American hacked and sup­
tion to undergo a budget cut,
The $5100 September budget Tuesday and Wednesday. Green Beret murder case and ported dictatorships, such as 
she said, because it was the only
was larger than anticipated, hut "l basically would rather like other "questionable" activities Ydigoras of Guatemala. 
one which was not contracted. 
on the advice of Chimes advisor to have as many people present such as other executions of poli­Windel also was alarmed that One of the first areas which at the interviewing as possible to
Harold Isbell of the English tical prisoners in Vietnam and as of last Friday he had not department, Markle did not will be affected by the cut will show Notre Dame's lack of sup­their involvement in Che Gue­received word that the CIA or he the $100 prizes that they had port for the activities of the CIA Dow would submit itself to an
question it. vera's apprehension and murder, It came out last week that the planned to offer for contribu­and Dow. I personally do not said Windel. open forum as demanded in the tions in poetry, prose, and profess a desire for any type of
inordinate sum was the result of Windel said that Dow owns a Student Senate bill last year. photography. The prizes must be violent and destructive demon­
the Bnard of Trustees doubling bank in Switzerland whose sole ·He questioned the selection cut to $50. stration. I think we should keep of members from this "Christian
of last year's budget request. It purpose is to loan out money to was their intention that the ller final comment was that it in line with the spirit of a companies who are dealing with community" to participate in Chimes would publish four, in­"the Board of Trustees is making non-violence philosophy," he Dow and whose profits are going CIA's "questionable" activities. 
all these arbitrary promises and said.
stead of its usual two, issues. directly to Dow. He added that "There seems to be a contra­This stipulation was not made all these cuts. They didn't call He added that he would sup­this type of American involve­diction in the Christian philo­known to the Chimes staff, how­on us at any time. They just port a "peaceful non-violent ment in Europe results in not a sophy taught and symbolized by 
ever. don't know what they're confrontation of the interview­European economy but an Notre Dame and the actions doing." ers wht:re they would perhaps be
Extensive plans had been American supported economv or taken hy the CIA," he said. 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1969
THE OBSERUER.
PAGE 2 
Law at Pennsylvania? 

Vice dean James Strazzelle of the University of Pennsylvania Law School will be conducting interviews 
Weathermen defended by McKenna for prospective students on Thurs­day, November 20, in room 154 of 
by Tim Treanor . 
the Center for Continuing Education. 
Student Body President Phil

Sign up for an appointment outside 101 O'Shaughnessy. 
McKenna Saturday accused those who criticized the tactics of the radical Weatherman fac-
FRANKIES 

tion of the SDS of failing to "realize the whole question." 
For Dinner 

McKenna, who appeared in a panel discussion with Morrissey
A Tureen of our famous 

hall President John Barkett and Soup, Salad, Bread, 
Grace Hall President Jack Gilliss, Butter & Coffee and 
went on to say that, "in almost all those cases the violence was
finally our choice-12 

directed at property, which in­
ounce strip-

deed is one of the perversions of
ALL FOR $1.75 

our society -that property in 7 days a week 
our society has a higher degree, a higher level of value than people,
which proves 

and that violence against proper­ty cannot be equated with vio­
It costs less 

lence against people, further, that the system is creating vio­
to eat the Best 

lence against people, as it is in 
many cases day after day, and
at Frankles 

the people become frustrated and take out their inner feelings on human properties. I don't
CHARLIE'S 
think we can condemn them in the same kind of manner. What is happened at that point is that
STEREO 
people condemn those kinds of actions because they haven't
TAPE 
looked at the whole picture; they h..ave only had glimpses of what they are objecting to."
PRICES 

In response to a question I wanna give 'em away, 
from the audience, McKenna 
but my wife won't let me 
claimed that "the system has not allowed black people to partici­pate in it." When told that the system was changing, McKenna
LIST CHARLIE'S 
commented "not rapidly
PRICE PRICE 
enough."
3.98 3.49 

McKenna argued that the 4.98 4.39 
behavior of what he termed "white racists" in America must
5.98 5.29 
be changed, although 'he did not
6.98 5.88 
contend that white attitudes had 
7.98 6.89 
to bialtered to accomplish this. 
8.98 7.79 

"I believe that attitude is a 9.98 8.59 
function of behavior," McKenna 10.98 9.49 
said. McKenna constantly repeated 
11.98 10.39 
the phrase "people are the most
12.98 11.19 

jmportant thing," and at Qn.e
13.98 11.99 

point said, "a oar is nothing. What is a building? nothing." Gillis generally agreed with McKenna, although he did ex­
• 11111111111111 :;e 
press desire to distinguish between varying kinds of vio­
lence.
'aifi«r'''=~ 
"Let me define it," he said, "violence does not always mean 
OPEN PAlLY 9-1 
SAT. s•.m. to Sp.11. 
destruction. You can be violent within yourself, and what I
PH. 287·7218 
think is a prime example is this
774 Lincoln Way East 

WANTED 
Interested students to participate In GABFESTS 
with South Bend area residents 
and students from area colleges. 
Please calf or write 
Jay Harmon Box 427 
283-7757 Notre Dame 
Include phone number and evenings available 
Sponsored by South Bend-Mishawaka Area Chamber of Commerce & The Student Union 
?rape boy_cott, a?,d Its lack of people, and by the people,' or 
an abstract term. Where do you

mte:n~l vwlence;, _He accus~d something, it is our duty to do 
draw the line between your own 

participants of fatlure to m-everything, physically and other-
desires and those of your consti­

valve themselves." wise, to change it." The quota­
tuency? It is a problem every

Gillis said, "Your Constitu-"tion is from the Declaration of 
leader has to face; has to come

tion says -and I forgot the Independence. 
to grips with." In his summary,

wording of the Constitution, but Barkett, who did not com-
Barkett said that it "takes boTh

in the third paragraph, or second ment QJl the issue of violence, 
black and white keys to play the 

paragraph, it says 'When the said that "The idea of vision is 
Star-Spangled banner." 

Government is not of the ' 

Phil McKenna, John Barkett, Morrissey Hall President, and Jack Gillis, Grace Hall President, discussed the tactics of the Weathermen and their relation t.o property rights. Photo by Doug Madel 
Gabfests deadline nearing 
Gabfests, talk parties con­the people of the town closer In order to sign up for a ducted in the homes of South together," Harmon said. "Hope­Gabfest, students should send Bend residents, are being fully thru discussion of relevant their name, phone number, and organized this year by Jay issues students can gain insights times that they will be available 
Harmon, in conjunction with the into the workings of the adult to go to Jay Harmon at the Town and Gown Council of the mind. Also that adults gain a Student Union. Their name will South Bend-Misawaka area better insight into the workings then be matched up to a list of Chamber of Commerce. Other of the student movement, and the interested townspeople. area colleges, including Indiana how the younger generation They will then be contacted as University at South Bend, Saint thinks and feels." to the time and place of the Mary's, and Bethel are also parti­The deadline for students who Gabfest. All efforts will be made cipating. wish to participate is November to arrange transportation for 
Each of the schools will send 21st. Harmon said that he hopes those ND students who need it. their compiled lists to Harmon to begin the Gabfests right after "There has been a large 
who will then match the Thanksgiving. He stressed the amount of interest at the other students with a list of interested informality of the evenings and area schools, where this program South Bend residents given to said that "there won't be any set has been announced," Harmon him by Mrs. Audrey Conley of topic of discussions." Each host 
said. He hoped ND students the Chamber of Commerce. will invite sever riends as well as 
would respond similarly. "The purpose of these gab­having two students from each 
fests is to bring the students and school. 
Seek backing fo~r selective CO's 
There will be a meeting to­Saturday night, students who would like to put the lotterynight to consider the selective are now attempting to gather into dfect within forty-five days conscientious objector draft campus and national support for after the lottery bill is passed by amendment. The meeting will be the amendment met with the Senate, which should beheld at 9:00 and will be in Thomas Wells, one of Ted next week.
Room 127 of Nieuland Science Kennedy's legislative assistants. 
In a letter which is to be sentHall. The purpose of the meeting Wells expressed a desire to sup­to the Congressmen, the student is to gain student support for the port the measure and empha­supporters of the bill said: "The draft amendment recently writ­sized that strong pressure from proposed bill does not requireten and researched by Professors the students upon Congress any substantial change in the William Lewers, Thomas would be necessary to get the selective system as such. It is a 

Schaeffer and Charles McCarthy. bill out of the Senate Armed minimal proposal. It was drafted 
The proposed draft amendment Services Committee. Senator for the benefit of those who 
would allow those who are op­Stennis is the head of that Com­would otherwise have to face the 
posed to a particular war on the mittee and will hold hearings for lottery without this moral op­grounds that it is unjust to ob­major draft reform next tion available." 
tain a selective conscientious February. objector classification and take a Meanwhile, Defense Secretary 
David Breen, Business Manager form of alternate service. Melvin Laird announced that he Timothy J. Dineen, P.d. rvlgr. News Editor: Glen Corso Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Laura Haferd, Jeanne Sweeney, 
Ann Conway

THE ASSOCIATION 
St. Mary's Editor: Prudence Wear Photo Editor: Mike Murphy 

Friday November 21 8:30 PM 
Features Editor: Dave Stauffer Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Night Editor: Dave Lammers

A thletlc and Convocation Center 
Layout Design: Tom Hamilton Headlines: Rick Smith Layout: Mary Ellen Burke 

]{,·sL'I\L'd '>L',Il'> .Jl \'i. S-1. S2 111!1 ill' on s.Jk \!on & lues 111 JilL· llllllll)' I Lills '\lso on s,iiL' now .11 
The Observer is published daily

(,JI\1,•11 s. BookstoiL' . •\("C. Bo\ (JJIIL"L' 
during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. 

Presented by STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, 

No One will be seated after the performance begins 
Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1969 
PAGE 3 


Notre Dame offensive power blitzes Windsor 
oy Don Kennedy  first  goal of the  season  opened  of  the  University  of  Windsor  a  total of oO shots on  Windsor  Two  quick  scores,  by  Wittliff  
Observer Sports ''Vriter  the Irish scoring with a mere  19  Lancers Saturday night.  goalie  Scott  McFadden,  whose  and freshman Bruce Raskob, off.  
Gary Little must have been in quite a hurry to get back to his dorm to view the N D-Georgia Tech duel on the tube, as his  seconds elapsed in the first period. Little, a freshman winger from Canada, tallied on passes from Paul Regan and Jim Morin, paving the way for an 8-3 rout  The game, witnessed by a crowd of around 2,000 (includ­ing a small but vocal contingent of the "Vikings"), was all Notre Dame. Three Irish lines pumped  brilliant saves kept the Lancers in the game early, but couldn't stem the onrushing Irish tide. Billed as a tough defensive battle between two hard-check­ set the Windsor score. The pace slackened in the final twenty minutes of play. Tomasoni was called upon to make nine saves and Mcfadden  
ing teams, the contest soon be­ 29, but few were difficult. The  
came all too one-sided. Follow- only scoring came early and late  
ing  Little's  lead-off  goal,  the  in  the stanza, Little netting his  
Irish  brought  most  of the first  second  goal  of  the  evening  at  
period  action  to  the  Windsor  2:25 and Wittliff picking up the  

 zone,  as  they  out-passed  and  "hat-trick"  with  a  mere  seven  
out-skated  the  shaky . Lancers.  seconds showing on the clock.  
The  pressure  finally  broke  The Irish displayed a brilliant  
through  as Captain Phil Wittliff,  offensive attack, one that will be  
after just excusing himself from  needed in up-and-coming battles  
the penalty box, netted the first  with heavies like Boston College  
of his three goals at 16:34.  and Wisconsin. Defensively, both  
Play  appeared  slightly  more  lines have come a long way from  
even  after  the  opening  of the  last  week's  Blue-Gold  scrim­ 
second  stanza.  Windsor  pulled  mage, but could use a little more  
within  one  as  Vic  IIebert  put  polish. Tomasoni,  as  usual,  was  
one by the screened Irish goalie,  excellent,  turning  back  bread­ 
Dick  Tomasoni.  But  the  Irish  ways and  point-blank  shot.  To  
blunted the Lancer's attack and  all  in  the  pressbox  it appeared  
the Notre Dame "Veteran Line",  that  Notre  Dame  has the mak­ 
with  goals  by  wingmen  John  ings of  a great squad that may  
Roselli and  Joe Bonk, widened  surprise even the likes of Boston  
the lead  to three goals. Windsor  College.  
picked up  a  cheap goal as some  The  next  game  for  the icers  
sloppy defensive play around the  will be  a  Friday night battle at  
crease  area  resulted in easy goal  the Convo against  the Ohio U.  
by  Lancer  winger  Wayne  Pye.  Bobcats on November 28.  
(left)  With  snow-covered  seats  in  the  background,  ND's  Pat  
McGraw (34) puts the time-honored "stiff arm" on Michigan's Gary  
Costley (89).  The  action  took place  in  the  third quarter, after  


McGraw intercepted a pass. 
Leadership subject of Shuster talk 
by Jim Graif 
they could be most effective. 
A quality of a leader according so.ns for this belief. The first. is
Dr. George N. Shuster, special 
The best education according
to Dr. Shuster is that he can that much of what was relevant
aide to Father Hesburgh told 
attract people to work with him, in the past doesn't fit anymore. to Dr. Shuster is one which
students attending the Robert F. 
but is also willing to work with Secondly, he felt there is a lack combines an awareness of lasting
Kennedy Student Leadership 
them. of dedication, honesty, and per­tradition with a study of prob­
Conference that the U.S. is suf­
lems and the possible ways to
During the question and ans­sistance in all law enforcement
fering from a sense of failure 
resolve them. 
wer session a student asked if around the nation.
which is the result of a lack of 
the problem of lack of leaders is Another questioner asked Dr.
people capable of getting the job 
one which has existed through­Shuster how to best serve the
of solving problems done. 
the Squire 
for lEN la1ar Clltlac • lllr Celarilt Continental Styling Maf1lills -Mil., W.., Bw. 

Alllmlions-II., Til., S3l Call for STUDENT SPECIAL 125 E. Colfax Ave., So. Bend Phon" 734-q7:-17 

out history or is only a problem country. The former president ....---------------'---------------1
Dr. Shuster said that a leader of today. Dr. Shuster felt that of Hunter College said that byneeds luck and cooperation in 
DOW-CIA PROTEST MEETING 
the problem has always existed getting involved in public lifeorder to succeed, but that team­but is more prevalent now than such as community service, city work is superior to opportunity. 
ever before. He cited two rea­
planning, and law enforcement 
Monday 7:00 PM 
Room 118 N ieuwland

Wells lauds youth, hits military 
(continued from page I) 
in lhe streets. 
this war, and they cannot be 
TACTICS TO BE DISCUSSED 

continue to withdraw from an Faced with these enormous 
• renewed until the burden of war active belief in the worth of this crises, docs it make sense to is lifted". 
& Decided Upon

nation's commitments to justice spend more on bombs alone in 
He felt that Nixon would.
and equality." Vietnam than we spend on pri­
not respond to the antiwar dis­
After this Wells went on to mary and secondary education 
sent, but would simply continue
condemn the military budget as here at home?" 
present policies. 
extremely excessive and des­From the military in general 
"The war will continue at its
cribed the American military as he moved to the war in Vietnam 
STUDENT UNION 

present pace. The immense toll
"the largest organization in the as his target. 
of death and suffering will con­
world". lie blamed the desire of "The unity and spirit of our 
PRESENTS

tinue to mount."
both America and its adversaries nation have been affected by to negotiate from a position of strength, as causing this sup­posedly undesirable condition, 
....,_.Uusc JVt"si:oll j"'· 
which he goes on to blame for 

CHALET HOLIDAY 
"inattention to domestic needs". 
Craftsmen in Optics 
Wells lamented the cost of the 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES
military. "The price is too high. 
AND CONTACT LENSES-­
It is paid in riots, crime, welfare 
SIGN-UPS

THE SIIHRLAND Bf.DG.
payments, poor housing, pollu­
/32 S. MICHIGAN ST.
tion and growing dissension 
Central 2-I468 
among our people. Unless we adjust our policies, our cities will 
SSO DEPOSIT 

71.cJltiii.Se ofViSicm 3nt!.
continue to suffer-not because 
of a nuclear attack, but because 
Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.·· Chicago 
of poison in the air, or warfare 
TUES-WED-THURS 
STUDENTS FACULTY & ADMINISTRATION! 
2:00 -4:30

Anyone who wishes to serve as a student representative on the University Forum must submit
Feel Stimulated & Refreshed/ 
an application to the Secretary of the Student Senate 
by 5:00 p.m. Tuesday, November 18. Place your
Go to: 
SERVICES OFFICE 

application in the Student Government Office, 3rdN.D. Barbershop Hours floor, LaFortune.
8:00a.m. to 4:45 Sat. 8:00a.m. to 11:45 Open 
4E LAFORTUNE 
5~ days a week. Serving 
N.D. men over I00 years. 

r 
711B OBS£RfJ£R, 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1969
PAGE 4 

Interception returns long gainers in Atlanta 
by Mike Pavlin Observer Sports Editor An underdog Georgia Tech eleven, refusing to roll over and play dead, forced the Irish to dig for a 38-20 victory in Atlanta last Saturday night on national TV. The victory raised NO's record to 7-1-1 and came amid side speculation that this was finally going to be the year of the Bowl. In a story appearing in Sun­day's South Bend Tribune, Athletic Director Ed "Moose" Krause was reported as saying that Notre Dame would accept a  temperatures and featured an amazing display of interception, punt and kickoff returning by both sides. The cold weather had control early as Tech fumbled, NO fumbled, and Tech fumble, giv­ing the Irish possession on the 'Jacket 17. After a fine fake, quarterback Joe T heismann rolled right and hit his soph split end Tom Gatewood who tip­toed in along the sidelines from the four-yard line. Another fumble led to NO's second score. Halfback Denny Allan made an over-the-shoulder catch of a  tried a quick down-and-out pass. At the 30, soph cornerback Clarence Ellis stepped inside, intercepted the pass, and fled 70 yards down the sideline to score. In the record book, it ties him with Paul Hornung for the 1Oth longest interception return. Safety John Gasser then got into the act by pilfering a pass and returning it 57 yards to the Yellowjacket I 0. The Irish had to settle for a 26-yard field goal by Scott Hempel. After an ex­change of interceptions (NO's by Ralph Stepaniak), Notre Dame drove for its final score of the  his credit, foiled the Irish by grabbing a Theismann pass two yards deep in the end zone and blowing I02 yards up the middle. In the official measure­ments of the NCAA, it'll go down as I 00 yards. Notre Dame scored quickly in the third quarter to make it 38-6 and it looked like Bill Etter time. But the reserve Irish qb never got a chance as Tech rallied for two scores. Herman Lam, a swift receiver who was born in Hong Kong, was the villian. On a four-and-one situa­tion at the NO 37, Williams  Notre Dame attemptt:d to put some more pointF. on the board, but a last-minute drive failed as Theismann was unable to con­nect on four passes from the Georgia Tech 14. By far the outstanding indivi­dual in the game, Theismann totaled 263 yards total offense. On the all-time passing list a NO, Joe is now 9th in attempts, 7th in completions, 2nd in percen­tage, 8th in TO passes, and 8th in yardage. He is also I Oth in total offensive yardage with 2501 yards. Gatewood had an excellent  
bowl bid if offered. Krause also said that the athletic board had voted a month ago to accept a bid should one be forthcoming. Down 31-0 in the second period, Tech rallied to score three touchdowns, the most on the board against the Irish this year since the MSU game. The contest was played in 30-degree  Theismann pass and was downed at the 14. Theismann got away from a good pass rush and scrambled over from the 13 two plays later. Scott Hempel made it 14-0. The fireworks began in earn­est late in the period. Tech qb Jack Williams engineered a drive down to the Irish 35. Then he  half. Theismann-to-Gatewood passes put the ball on the 22 and 3-yard lines. Andy Huff scored from the one to make it 31-0. Things weren't over, however, as Stepaniak picked off another pass and took it 51 yards to the Tech 8 with time running out. Jeff Ford, who came into the game with seven interceptions to  called for a pasS', Lam burst by the surprised Ellis to take the TO toss. Lam caught another medium-range pass mid-way through the last period, putting the ball on the NO 2. Three times the Irish line stopped Tech ballcarriers, but Kenny Bounds nudged his head over on fourth down.  game, catching seven passes for I 04 yards. His first period touchdown reception gave him eight for the season. He is al­ready 5th in career TO passes. Scott Hempel connected on 5-5 PAT's; He now sports a 91.5 coversion percentage, a fraction ahead of Gus Dorais' career mark of 91.4%.  

•

Parker, Dulger, Creaney lead frosh to w1n •
1n snow 

the break, however, and on costly offside penalty moved the a diving tackle on the Wolverine pass fell imcomplete, Creaney
by Jim Donaldson 

Observer Sports Writer fourth down and nine at the 29 ball back to the five. Bulger three. Two line plunges by came on and attempted his sec­attempted a field goal which picked up two yards to the three Gutowski pushed the ball over ond field goal. This time hiS
No matter what their record a 

Dan O'Toole blocked for the on second down but his third the goal line and, once again, boot was right on target, split­Fighting Irish football team is Irish, giving NO possession on down pass to Willie Townsend in Creaney converted. ting the uprights from 42 yardsalways difficult to beat in Notre 
their 37. the end zone was imcomplete. The Irish almost added an­away.
Dame Stadium. A previously 

Neither team was able to Once again, the Irish declined to other quick score when Pat
winless Irish freshman team 

mount an offensive and the clubs go for three points and were McGraw intercepted a Michigan Michigan's only score was tall­taught the U. of Michigan's exchanged three punts, before, forced to surrender possession pass on the Wolverines first play ied by the defense when withfirst-year eleven that fact of midway through the second when Parker was able to gain of the half and returned the ball 3:37 remaining in the contestN.D. football life while handing quarter, the Irish mounted their only two yards on a rush into to the Michigan eight. An illegal Clint Spearman picked up athe young Wolverines a 17-7 first offensive punch. Notre the line. procedure penalty and a loss of McGraw punt that had beensetback on Saturday, before 500 
Dame had a first down on their The Notre Dame defense held nine yards attempting to pass blocked by Gerry Schumaker
chilled partisans. The victory en­own 42 following the Wolverines the Wolverines on downs and the cost the Irish a shot at the and ran untouched fifteen yards
abled the Irish frosh to salvage 

third punt of the afternoon touchdown and the Wolverines for the score. John Daniels con­
the final game on their schedule, Irish regained possession on the 
when quarterback Jim Bulger were able to escape without verted for the Wolverines' sev­
having previously suffered losses Michigan 3 2 with 1: 13 remain­
scampered around left end for mishap when Creaney's 38 yard enth point.
on the Tennessee and Michigan ing in the first half. Notre Dame 
thirty yards to the Michigan 28. field goal attempt went wide to The play of Parker, whose 83
State campuses. wasted no time in getting on the 
Bulger ran for 15 more yards on the left of the goal posts. yards rushing was tops in the
A strong Irish defense kept scoreboard as, on first down,
the very next play, moving the Notre Dame mounted the on­game, Bulger, Townsend, and
the Wolverines in check through­Bulger fired a strike to Town­
ball to the 13 yard line. An ly other offensive thrust of the defensive players Eric Bottcher
out the contest while the NO send in the end zone for six 
R-vard burst up the middle bv ga,me when they gained possess­and Tom Friestroffer and
offense mustered the highest points. Creaney converted to
Larry Parker l?laced the ball on ion at the Michigan 29 yard line Tyrone Robinson proved that,
point total of their brief season, give Notre Dame a 7-0 lead at 
the Wolverine 5 where it remain­following a short Wolverine although their record may have
17, on touchdowns by Dennis halftime. 
ed for two more plays as rushes punt. been unimpressive, the frosh will 
Gutowski and Willie Townsend, The Irish quickly added to 
into the line by Gutowski and Two rushes gained three yards be supplying a good deal of
who caught a 32 yard scoring their lead at the outset of the 
Mike Webb proved unsuccessful. for the Irish and, when a Bulger talent to the '70 varsity.
strike from Jim Bulger, and a 42 third quarter. Frank Basanese 
Declining the field goal attempt,

yard field goal from the toe of returned the second half kickoff 
the Irish elected to go for the

Mike Creaney. to the Notre Dame 35 and it 
first down and were successful as 

took the Irish just five plays to
The game began unimpressive­Parker slammed for three yards 
65 yards for their second

ly for the Irish as, on their third move 
to the two. When Mike Webb 

touchdown. Larry Parker's 62
play after receiving the opening 

hulled his way to the one foot a
kickoff, they fumbled away the yard rush off left tackle on 
line it looked as if the Irish were 

third and ten situation on the
ball to Michigan on the N D 41 a play away from putting their 

Irish 35 was the big play in the
yard line. The young Wolverines first score on the board but a 

drive, Parker being stopped by
were unable to take advantage of 

The stats -sluggish but effective 
ND TECH Rushing Attempts 60 42 
PASSING ATT COMP YDS TO
Net Yards Rushing 233 71 Theismann 28 12 176 1
Passing Attempts 29 30 
Allan 1 0 0 0Completions 12 12 Had Intercepted 3 4 
RECEIVING NO YDS TO
Passing Yards 176 169 
Gatewood 7 104 1
Punts 4·36.3 3·32.0 
Barz 3 36 0
Total Plays 89 72 
Allan 2 36 0
Total Offensive Yds 409 240 GEORGIA TECH 
NOTRE DAME 21 10 7 0 
38 

GEORGIA TECH 0 6 0 14 20 
RUSHING ATT NET YDS TO NO: Gatewood 16 PASS from Theismann (Hempel kick) Cunningham 7 55 0 NO: Theismann 13 RUN (Hempel kick) Spiotta 10 31 0 NO: Ellis 70 INTERCEPTION RETURN (Hempel kick) Bounds 7 8 1 NO: Hempel 26 FIELD GOAL Hoffman 2 1 0 NO: Huff 1 RUN (Hempel kick) Williams 9 -2 0 TECH: Ford 100 INTERCEPTION RETURN (Pass failed) O'Neil 7 -22 0 NO: Theismann 8 RUN (Hempel kick) TECH: lam 28 PASS from Hoffman (Pass failed) PASSING ATT COMP YDS TO TECH: Bounds 1 RUN (lam from O'Neil) O'Neil 16 6 84 0 
NOTRE DAME Williams 12 5 57 0 Hoffman 2 1 28 1 
Frosh center Paul Regan (IS) battles Windsor's Rene Garon (14)

RUSHING ATT NET YDS 
TO for the puck during Saturday night's 8-3 Irish victory. Phil Whittliff 
Theismann 14 87 2 RECEIVING NO ·-ros TO 
lam (10), who "hat-tricked" for ND, and Lancer Ejay Queen (16) await
Huff 11 37 '1 5 79 1 Allan 14 37 0 Pall man 3 42 0 
the outcome. Barz 5 24 Stoddard 1 26 0
0 Crotty 9 24 0 Bounds 1 11 0 Ziegler 3 12 0 Cunningham 6 0 Yoder 4 12 0 Foster 5 0 
PUNTING PUNTING NO AVG
NO YDS 

deArrieta Chapman 3 32.0
4 36.3 





