
Serving the Notre Dame and Sa{n:;;t-MAL.a;;r_;-;-l'o;:·s--;(;;'(~J/11/e;:;;~:;;,e;----rr>;·o;-;,l;-;:m~r:;:u:;:n:;,it;;-)';-----------T=:-:-=uE-S-D-A-Y-,_N_O_V_E_M_B-ER-,-,-.-,9 ­
VOL. IV, No. 40 -69 
SLC defeats 
by Bill Carter 
At last night's SLC meeting the Council narrowly defeated a resolution asking Fr. John Walsh Vice President for Aca­demic' Affairs, not to penalize any student or faculty member who wished to take part in any of the moratorium activities scheduled for Nov_ 13 and 14 for absence from classes on 
those two days. 
The Council also passed a motion which called for the eli­nunation of the section of the 
Student Manual which prohibits eligibility for extracurricular ac­tivities to students on academic probation. A similar motion con­cerning disciplinary probation was voted down. 
In other business the Council 
named its representatives for the 
University Court and the Court 
of Appeals. The students named 
by Uon Ruane Rev. James L. Riehle, Dean of Students, yesterday reinforced the position of Rev. Louis J_ Thornton, Director of the Notre Dame Placement Bureau, by say­ing that the General Electric campus interviews should be car­ried out as scheduled. Riehle also answered claims by the CPA that the University is supporting the G.E. manage­ment by "sponsoring its con­tinued operation" during the strike between General Electric and thirteen unions. The other claim was that the University is engaged in strikebreaking activi­
ties by recruiting workers while these arc striking. Riehle termed these claims as "illogical" in his reply. 
"I don't know what I can say about it. I have nothing to do with the Placement Bureau, so I don't know what their policy is or what they're doing." 
"The Placement Bureau," he said, "was originally set out as a service for students to help them get jobs when they leave the University. I really don't sec how this is taking a side with the policies of G .E., one way or the other. I don't sec how a conclu­sion such as that can be drawn." 
"What the Placement Bureau 
were Jim Chelich and Pat Bridenstine to the University Court with Pat Kavanaugh as the alternate. Dan McElroy was cho­sen for the Court of Appeals. The faculty selected Prof. Marshall Srneltzler and Prof. James Kohn for the University Court and Prof. William Sexton to the Court of Appeals. The administration appointed Rev. Ferdinand Brown and Prof. Leslie Forschio to the University Court and Prof_ John Malone to the Apellate Court. 

The Moratorium resolution was originally drawn up by stu­dent representative Ted Jones but was presented by Ed Roickle in Jones' absence. As worded by Jones, the resolution called for the "cancelling of classes on Nov. 13 and 14 as an expression of support for those peace-loving peoples involved with the Viet-
is doing is offering a service to the Notre Dame students and because General Electric hap­pens to be on strike right now does not, to me, interfere with the Placement Bureau's schedule which is made up far in advance with prospective employees who are looking for a job. I can't see how the University takes a posi­tion one way or the other on it. It doesn't follow. It's illogical." 
Thornton explained to Phil Flemming of the CPA on Thurs­day afternoon that over "I 00 students signed to take inter­views with G.E." lie also said these students "have the right to assent" just as other students "have the right to dissent." Thornton stated, as reported in Friday's Observer, that the inter­view dates were set about one year ago when there was no strike in progress. 
As of yesterday afternoon, today's scheduled picketing of the G.E. interviews had not been registered with the Dean of Stu­dents. This is in violation of a University rule that requires all demonstrations to be registered with the dean's office. Viola­tions of University rules arc pun­ishable in several ways ranging from disciplinary probation to permanent dismissaL 


morator1um mot1on 
nam Moratorium activities." 

When the resolution met with immediate opposition, Student Body President Phil McKenna offered an amendment calling for the wording to be changed so as to ask Fr. Walsh for a state­ment similar to the one he issued concerning the October Morator­ium. McKenna's amendment asked that no student or faculty member be "penalized" for his absences on those two days. The amendment also included a clause asking that the same privi­lege be extended to all the em­ployees of the Notre Dame com­munity. 
The employees clause was im­mediately challenged by Fr. Charles McCarragher on the grounds that the University might not be able to function without a large segment of its workers. A motion to divide the issue between the two clauses was made and passed. The Coun­cil then voted to consider the question of student and faculty participation in the Moratorium. 
In the long discussion that followed the resolution was sup­
ported  by  all  but  one  of  the  
student  representatives  and  a  
number  of  the  faculty  group.  

The Administration representa­tives opposed the resolution. McKenna offered to reword his amendment so that it would not 
(Continued on page 2) 
SMC 

by Prue Wear 
Last night in an unprece­dented move, the student mem­bers of the Student Affairs branch of SMC Community Government called for suspen­sion of all meetings until the student body gives them an indi­cation of the direction that they would like Student Government to take. 
In the statement, the students said that they felt themselves ineffective representatives as they were "unable to gather sup­port, interest, constructive criti­cism, or any other evidence that student opinion on issues of a significant nature exists." The members called upon the stu­dents to react in order for the representatives to determine "whether this suspension should, in fact, be temporary or perhaps permanent." 
The statement was signed by all but one of the students who sit on the Student Assembly, the Student Affairs Committee, and the Student Affairs Council; the student was not able to attend the meeting and could not be contacted for approvaL 
According to Susan Turnbull, SMC Student Body President, the statement resulted from the "frustration of all the members of the committees which has been growing probably since the beginning of the year." 
A few of the members met last Thursday to discuss possible means of alleviating the dead­lock created this year in student affairs decisions. 
They decided to hold a closed 

Notre Dame Sophomore Joseph Cassini was treated at St. Joseph's Hospital in South Bend last night for injuries he received in an automobile accident on campus. 
Cassini, of 316 Flanner Hall, suffered injuries to his nose which required several stitches when the car in which he was riding collided head on with the shuttle bus. 
The accident occured at about 
II :00 p.m. last night on wet pavement along Notre Dame Avenue in back of the Engineer­ing Building. Miss Kathleen Vio­la, a friend of Cassini's who was visiting on campus for a few days, was driving the car. 
After turning cast at the cir­cle, she lost control of the car, swerved over the curb on the left side of the road where she struck a metal post, and ran back onto the road. When the car hit the curb, the left front wheel of the car broke, sending the car ca­reening into the front of the bus. 
Witnesses estimated that the 
car hit the bus, which had stop­
ped, traveling at about 30-35 
miles per hour. 

None of the nearly 20 passengers on board the bus were injured. 
gov't suspended 
joint meeting of the committee representatives. They met last night in the Student Personnel Lounge in LeMans HalL 
Turnbull said that "Student Government in the past has been a means of changing rules, but now there arc not so many rules to change. It can be an instru­mental force, _and we must de­cide where we want to direct our energies -it can no longer be in the realm of rules." She further stated, "If the students back off this time, we will have to take a good hard look at the Student Affairs aspect of Community Government and see if it has any reason for existing at alL" 
Student Affairs Committee member Noreen Jordan holds a somewhat different uptnton of the statement. "I didn't think it went nearly far enough; it didn't get to -the core. The reason we haven't done anything this year is because we haven't had stu­dent backing and haven't heard student opmton. The whole problem is the girls themselves." 
St. Mary's Community Government has two branches: Academic Affairs and Student 
Affairs.  Any  bill  going  up  
through  their separate channels  
can  fall  to  a  final  veto  by Fr.  

McGrath. Any proposal which would affect college policy must pass through the Board of Trus­tees. Student Affairs concerns itself with all social rules: dress, hours, drinking, open houses vs. parietal hours. 
We the student members of the Student Affairs channel of St. Mary's College (i.e., the Student Assembly, the Student Affairs Committee, and the Student Affairs Council) do hereby call for a temporary suspension of all meetings within this channel. At the present time, we find it impossible to effectively operate as representatives of student opinion as we are unable to gather support, interest, constructive criticism, or any other evidence that student opinion on issues of a sigmficant nature exists. We, therefore, ask for student reac­tion so that we may decide whether this suspension should, in fact, be temporary or perhaps permanent. 
Susan Turnbull Beth Driscoll Patricia McCusker Susan Chase Ronie Rogers Irish McNamara Deborah Ann Motto Sandra Griffin Jane Sheehy Louise McGrath Mary Ruth Lyons Carol Cusick Dianne Derfler Debbie Lahey Ann Marie Tracey Jean Gorman Noreen Jordan Margaret Kromkowski Velma Lemanski Mary Bernath Mary Minella Marsha Eliff Karen Weller 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 11,1969
711B OBSERfiER. 
•
Room 1n Keenan ransacked 
by John DiCola Walkup said that he had no the Miracles, who appeared in idea how the vandals broke into
Bill Walkup left his room in concert at Notre Dame over 
room because he had lockec Homecoming
Keenan Hall at 2: l 5 yesterday his weekend, may 
the door when he left and it was have been a motive. This letter
afternoon, walked to the book­store, and returned at 3:00 to locked when he returned. Hel­was printed in· the Observer on frich was working at the Rockne Nov. 6. Walkup reported that
find his room ransacked. Walkup 
building at the time of the rob­Helfrich received a phone callsoon discovered that thirty-one dollars had been taken from his 
bery. Thursday afternoon, asking for Walkup reported the theft to the "guy who wrote the article."
wallet, and that sixty dollars in security police, who were puz­Other calls were received.
cash had been stolen from his zled that the thieves could have "One of them," Walkup said,
roommate, Tom Helfrich. The bunk beds had been overturned, 
unlocked and locked the room. "warned that I would hear from and their clothes were heaped on 
The security police also pointed them later on in the week." He 
the floor. Books, papers, stereo out that it is very hard to trace also added, "It could have been tapes, and Walkup's other pos, stolen money, but they will in­someone who didn't like the sessions were strewn throughout 
vestigate the incident. letter who did this, but I don't the room. The vandals had torn 
Walkup said that opposition want to say for sure." light fixtures from the walls and to a "letter to the editor" he Other residents of Keenan smashed several glass beer mugs wrote criticizing the perfor­who live near Walkup reported 
on the floor. mance of Smokey Robinson and that they had heard nothing while the room was ransacked, 
r 

but many residents had been at
Court posts named 
class at the time of the break-in. 
(Continued from page 1) ble for poor grades in one semes­ter by an otherwise good stu­
stipulate the reasons for absence dent and that some potential 
HPC begins hall autonomy drive
on the two days. 

for student leadership could thusThe vote on the resolution 
lives in are stifled by the inabili­sponsor movies for their indivi­be lost by adherence to the
resulted in a I0-10 tie which by Jim Graif ty of hall residents to decide dual halls with the proceeds to was broken by Chairman Massey 
eligibility clause. 
The Hall President's Council his own code of behavior. Out­go to the hall treasuries. who voted against the motion. 
Prof. John Houck presented a last night began preparation fot "side legislation ignores the A proposal to endorse the Earlier, the Council debated 
motion to table the question the drafting of a statement on unique character of each com­University Forum was voted the question of student eligibili­until May I, when the Student the rationale behind hall autono­munity and denies the residents down. The presidents felt that ty after academic and disciplin· Manual is to be re-examined, as my to be presented to the Stu­the opportunity to solve their the proposal was not directly ary probation. The motion, as he felt the issue was "minutiae" dent Life Council. own problems. connected with hall life. Theypresented by McKenna at last 
and not sufficiently important Each president will have until did ·believe that the University
The presidents were each
week's meeting, intended to cut 
for consideration by the Coun­the next H.P.C. meeting to make Forum is a good idea in itself. 
given w initial copy of the
out the entire section concerning 
cil. Houck felt that the Student revisions and additions to the 
student eligibility for extracurri­statement which contained in Wheaton heads
Senate should take up the issue initial copy. Some suggestions
capsule form, the reasons each
culars from the Student Manual. 
if it considered it important and for improvements were discussed
president has for believing in the
McKenna and the other students present recommendations to the by the presidents. A precise defi­placement office 
need for hall autonomy.
on the Council argued that ex­
Council at a later time. nition of individual responsibi­
The Placement Office at SMCternal factors could be responsi-
The basic idea behind the lity was deemed necessary by is now under a newly appointedMcKenna argued that to state need for hall autonomy, accord­the presidents as they felt that a director of Career Planning and that the Senate should consider ing to the statement, is that in stronger explanation of the mo­
Placement. Miss Janice Wheaton 
the bill first would raise a basic order to form and maintain a tive behind the statement would 
from the Volusia County
question of authority. Did the community spirit of cooperation give it more impact. 
Schools in Florida took over this 
Senate is this instance, have the it is necessary that all the resi­Suggestions were accepted 
position last week after Miss 
authority to pass a bill that dents of a hall share in the rights from the floor as to ways of 
Classo, the former Director, left 
would contradict university poli­of participation in matters of making money to finance An 
to be married. 

cy? If it did, could it extend the common concern. At present the Tostal. The most widely ac­
Miss Wheaton's job entails 
perogative to other matters? student and the community he 
cepted idea was for each hall to placing seniors in graduate schools , with the possibility of fellowships or scholarships. She is also involved with finding suit­
Grant aids Dr. Saz's research 
able employment for those grad­
Dr. Howard J. Saz, professor associated with tropical climates. making them difficult to raise in uating seniors who want to fol­of biology at the University of However, Saz explained, they most laboratories, Saz explained. low up a career. Notre Dame, recently received are attracting more interest from He added that Notre Dame is Miss Wheaton's main job is to $306,382 from the National Americans recently, in view of lucky to have large colonies of co-ordinate the student's per­Institutes of Health to support the large number of service men these insects readily available sonal files, in order to facilitate his research into the now stationed in tropical through the Mosquito Genetics the seniors' applications to grad­biochemistry of three common climates, and returning with Laboratory, greatly facilitating uate school or employment. parasites. parasitic diseases. studies of the worm. But ·Miss Wheaton urged all of 
Saz, a recent addition to the Ascaris, a common the students, even the freshmen, Notre Dame faculty, will round-worm, is one of the Saz will begin research almost to use the library of the Place­world's most common and immediately, with a study on ment Office to make a better
continue research begun at wide-spread parasites, Saz said. the common Ascaris. Ascaris decision on their choice of a
Johns Hopkins University on According to the World Health does not need oxygen to live, major and in deciding what
helminths, parasitic worms that 0 rga nizatio n, this parasite Saz explained --an obvious
afflict over one-fourth of the courses to take. 
world's population. afflicts 488 million people point of difference from its Since the Placement Office around the world. hosts. He plans to compare the just came into operation a year 
Over the five-year period of Some tape worms are among energy-producing sections of the ago, Miss Wheaton has a great the grant, he plans to investigate t he world's largest parasites, worm's cells with those of its amount of work to do. Much the biochemical processes of a growing up to 40 feet in length. host, in an effort to see how the more information on jobs and 
common round-worm, a tape These intestinal parasites can parasite carries on its life graduate schools will be ob­


worm, and a filarial worm, interfere with vitamin processes without oxygen. searching particularly for absorption, and cause lesions in differences between the the host's intestines, Saz said. 
biochemistry of the worm and Of the three parasites, its human or animal host. "If we probably least is known about Publisher: Donald C. Holliday can find biochemical differences, the filarial worm, which afflicts Editor: Gaetano DeSapio 
tained and Miss Wheaton hopes in the future to have companies come to the St. Mary's College campus to recruit seniors. Miss Wheaton also hopes to have a teacher recruiting day in the 
perhaps we can exploit them to 
destroy the parasite without 
harming the host,\" Saz said. 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. 
c H 1 C A G 
0 

PHONE: 944_7500•ZIP: The three worms under study
60611 
1==============-L.;a;!!r~e~a!!l.!.l:,e!x!:.:tr~e~m:.:.:e~l!.y_!p::_:e~s:k!y..!p~a~r~a~si~t~es::_;,-. 
In CINEMASCOP£ and in COLOR 
THE BLUE MAX 
with 
animals and humans alike. In humans, Saz explained, the worm can cause elephantiasis, an essentially incurable disease with 
symptoms which include severe and painful swelling of the limbs. The swelling is caused by the tiny worms, which congregate in the lumph nodes during part of their life cycle. 
During  another  part  of the  
cycle,  the  worms  must  live in  
ticks,  mites  or  mosquitoes,  

Associate Editors: Cliff Win­trade, Ann Conway, Laura Ha­ferd, Jeanne Sweeney St. Mary's News Editor: Pru­
dence Wear  
Night  Editors:  Dave  Bach,  
John Knorr  
Layout  Design:  Mary  Chris  
Morrison  

Headlines: Tom Law Copy Staff: Jim Graif Layout: Ann Conway 
near future. 

As far as guiding the student toward the right school or job, Miss Wheaton says that she will be working along with the facul­ty, and especially the education department. 
Miss Wheaton received her 
Bachelor of  Arts from Nazareth  
College,  in  Michigan  and  her  
Masters  in  Arts  from  Notre  

Dame University. 


during the college semester except
U. of Notre Dame
Ursula i'tndress 
Federal Poverty Level vacations by the students of the
George Peppard 
University of Notre Dame and St. Graduate Program in Economics Mary's College. Subscriptions may 
Michael Rennie 
$3000*
"An all-time great . .. " 

be purchased for $8 from The *tax exempt Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame,
Stipends $2100 to $2100* Ind., 46556. Second class postage 
*less taxes 

6:45 and 9:30 Tonite Engineering Aud. 75<.: 
paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1969 THE OBSERJJER. 
PAGE 3 
Residents of Grace Tower assured of rebates 
Residents of Grace Tower the students lived while Grace tions because of unforeseen de­posal in his letter, but he did not 
Grace residents. have been assured of a rebate was being finished. lay in the completion of the attempt to answer Father from the university for the in­In response to the Student buildings. I would hope that this Hesburgh's letter. Those students who want the conveniences caused them by Government request, Rev. would be a time for the same "I will nut attempt to refute rebate must sign a statement the incompletion of the tower at Theodore M. llesburgh, CSC, kind of magnanimity ... " lies­the letter, nor will I encoura~ formally req ue,~ti ng the rei m­the beginning of this semester. president of the University of burgh wrote. you to ask tor your rebate. I bursement from the University In a ktt~r to (~race residents Notre Dame, wrote a letter to "I would like to say that any­have insured that the rebate will of Notre Dame, and the rebate McKenna in which he explained
and other students who were one who wants an eye for an eyt: be available to you if you so will then be credited to the the financial problems the uni­
affected by the tardy construc­and a tool h for a tooth kind of desire it," wrote McKenna to the sturlent's second semester bill. tion, Student Body President versity would face if all the justice can come and claim his Phil McKenna announced the students involved .demanded a portion, and it will be given. But details for obtaining a rebate, rebate. In his letter to Grace I have to say at the same time and explained the situation. residents, McKenna included a that I will be very surprised if 
copy of llesburgh's response. very manv do so, understanding 
J·:arlicr this semester, Student Fatl1er llcsburgh wrote of the the facts of the matter and the Ciovern ment req uestcd that the generosity that Notre Dame >tu·,· tradition of which they are now inconvenienced students be re­dents have always shown in a living part." Hesburgh conclud­
imbursed for tl1e difference in times of emergency. "Certainly, ed. cost between a room in Grace there has been inconvenience McKenna also enclosed a copy and the six man suites in which and disruption of normal condi-of the Student Government pro-
Vandalism marks the weekend 
by Tom Bornholdt "We didn't have quite as bad a tape player and three dollars imagine a guy with average intel­weekend," Arthur Pears, Direc­from her wallet. A description of ligence doing that." tor of Security, summarized yes­the students was given to earn­
In Breen Phillips Hall, a man­• 
terday, in referring to the usual pus security, who are now inves­"--.
hole cover was tossed down the
rash of weekend theft and van­tigating the matter. -~ 
stairs causing moderate damage.
dalism. George Rebecca of Farley • 
In 1-Joly Cross Hall on Sunday, a
Around 10:20 p.m. Saturday, llall reported the theft of a 
maid's cart was broken when it
a girl claims that she was bullied wristwatch, high school ring and 
was pushed from a landing down
into driving two Notre Dame a billfold containing $21 be­Son House, the "last and greatest of the Delta Blues" singers • 
a flight of stairs. A telephone
students to the Circle. Among tween 2:45-3:45 p.m. on Sun­appears tonight in Washington Hall in part of a lecture-concert on
was reported stolen from a desk
other things, she lost her stereo day. lie claims that during that American Blues.
in Grace Hall.

period he had been watching football on a television set on
TA's backed 
another floor, and had left his The faculty and graduate 
Van Gorkom becomes!' trustee
door unlocked. Rebecca values students of the government 
the wristwatch and ring at $30 department have issued a state­
each and says that the billfold J.W. Van Gorkom, president of Illinois, Gorkom is a member Paul Foley, chairman of the ment declaring their full agree­
contained items of personal of Trans Union Corporation of of the Illinois bar and a certified board of McCann-Erickson, Inc.; ment with the English depart­
value. Chicago, has been named a Uni­public accountant. Bayard Rustin, executive dircc­ment resolutions which asks for Morrissey llall was vandalized versity of Notre Dame trustee, He has held several positions tor of the A. Philip Randolphhigher salaries for teaching assist­in several unusual ways. A fire the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, on the board of the Chicago , Institute; John A. Schneider, ex­
ants. cabinet had its glass smashed; C.S.C., president of the Univer­Lyric Opera Association and is ecutive vice-president of the The Statement reads: "The 
tjle hose was then unravelled and sity, announced Saturday currently a director. lie is also a Columbia Broadcasting System,graduate students and faculty of 
a considerable portion of the member of the board of trustees 1 and the Rev. Paul E. Wald­the department of government 
hall was deluged causing exten­T h c 52-year-old executive of the Chicago Educational Tclc-schmidt, C.S.C., president of the are in full support of the 
sive damage and a large mess. On joined the company in 1956 as vision Association and of the University of Portland in English department resolution Sunday morning between I :00 
controller and was elected to the board of consultors of Mercy Oregon.requesting that the salaries of 
and 3:00, a pile of doughnuts corporation's board of directors Hospital. teaching assistants be sub­and bread was set on fire in the in I 9 57. lie was named a vice He is a member of the Na­
Notre Dame's board of trus­stantially raised; and will sup­basement. Arthur Pears, himself, president in 1958, executive vice tional Public Advisory Commit­tees, which assumed governanceport proper action aimed at 
was summoned to this occur-president in 1960, and became tee on Regional Economic De­of the University from the Con­bringing about this goal. It is renee. Evidently an inflammable 
president in 1963. velopment and of the National gregation of Holy Cross in I 967,hoped that the administration liquid was tossed over the pastry An alumnus of the University Petroleum Council. llis director­is now composed of 42 active will act with all deliberate speed 
to make them burn causing a ships include Stepan Chemical members, 34 laymen and eight
to rectify the existing situation." large amount of smoke. Validation cards Co.; Scott, Foresman & Co.; the priests.The statement was signed by 
Concerning this last matter, 
National Boulevard Bank of Chi-r--------------,
the Chairman of the Govern­
Pears commented, "When you Any student who has not re­cago; the Illinois Central Indus­ment Department, Prof. George 
are playing with fire in a hall ceived his orange validation card tries, and Abex Corp.Brinkley, and the President of 
with guys sleeping, in my book for this semester may pick up the N.D.G.S.P.S.A., David W. 
you arc taking a risk. I can't same this week at the Registrar's Van Gorkom's addition to Office, Room 213 Main Build­Notre Dame's board is the fifth ing. Hours are I :00 to 5:00 in little more than a month.
'S'Oph social weekend 
P.M., Monday through Friday. Other recent appointees include 
considered successful 
CAF PRESENTS 
find their way to the Senior Bar,This past weekend the 
Sophomore Class Government Michaels said. bused in 225 girls from By talking Wltll the girls as 
"Evolution of the Blues" 
'1udclcin, Mary Grove, and St. they were preparing to leave Xavier colleges to "liven up the Sunday afternoon, "I'm sure social atmosphere at Notre that most of them had a really Dame." The girls stayed at the good time," Michaels stated. 
Lecture on the Blues 
Morris and Randall's Inn Friday "We felt that with the foot­and Saturday nights. 
ball team playing away, things Phil Michaels, chairman of t!H; would be dead campus", he
on 

by DICK WATERMAN 
affair. said, "All three schools commented. "To liven things up came down between 7 and 8 we thought that it would be a 
p.m. Friday night. Dinner was good time to bring these girls on supplied by the South Dining campus." 
Concert by
!!all. We sold 200 tickets to the According to Michaels, pre­mixer the week before, and all parations are now getting under­guys who had tickets were way to bus in girls during Mardi 
SON HOUSE ')· 
allowed to eat with the girls:" Gras weekend. He noted though, The mixer was held on Fridc;y that he was not sure the 
"last and greatest of the Delta Blues Singers " 
night between 8 and 12 p.m. on Sophomore Class would handle the 2nd floor of LaFortune the weekend, as it did this time. Student Center. The music was Michaels praised the work provided by the First Friday, a 
done by John McNulty, Joe local rock group. Michael's said 
Stankus, Dan McGrogan, Russ 
Tonight 8:00 PM Washington Hall
Campbell, and Tom Flood, all of whom helped to make the 
"the mixer was very successful, 
primarily because of the I to I weekend a success.
ratio we had." Due to the recent trouble in .--P-E_A_C_E_F_U_L_N_I_G_H_T---1 
arranging off-campus parties, a OF FOLK MUSIC 
CONTEMPORARY ARTS FESTIVAL 
scheduled beer blast at Misha­waka was canceled. Instead the Nov. 14 8:30 PATRONS-FREE girls were invited to various STUDENT CENTER 
section parties in halls across the OTHERS _ C>l.OO 
Need a Pleasant 
and Private 
Dinner Meeting 
Room? 

Try the Black Angus with its friendly atmosphere and two private dining rooms available most times except Friday and Saturday nights. Great steak dinners and easy­on-the-pocketbook prices of course. For reservations phone 
234·2292 
~ ' 
~ ) . 


1516 N. Ironwood Dr., southeast of Convocation Center between South Bend Ave. and Edison Rd. 
campus, and some managed to~__s_t_u_d_e_nt_u_n_io_n_s_o_c_ia_l_c_o_m_m_._ _L________~--------------------~--~----------~ 

THE OBSERfJ!R. TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 11,1969
PAGE4 
In lnterhall action 
Playoffs, fewer teams, player draft 
Football 

Interhall Football Results (11/9/69) 
Farley 14 Breen Philips 8 Zahm 8 Cavanaugh 0 Alumni 18 Sorin 6 Off-Campus 7 Walsh 0 Pangborn over Lyons by forfeit Grace-St. Ed's over Carroll by forfeit Stanford vs. Planner, double forfeit, both incur losses 
Final Standings 
Section A  
League I  w  L  1  
Pangborn  3  0  0  
Holy Cross  2  1  0  
Morrissey  1  2  0  
Lyons  0  3  0  
League II  w  L  T  
Off-Campus  4  0  0  
Dillon  2  1  1  
Alumni  1  2  1  
Walsh  I  2  1  
Sorin  0  3  1  
Section B  
League III  w  L  T  
Zahm  2  0  I  
Farley  2  1  0  
Cavanaugh  I  2  0  
Breen Philips  0  2  1  
League IV  w  L  T  
Grace-St.Ed's  3  0  I  
Keenan  2  I  1  
Stanford  2  2  0  
Carroll  1  3  0  
Planner  0  4  0  
Playoff Schedule  
Sunday Nov. 16  

1:30 Pangborn vs. Off-Campus 
3:00 Zahm vs. Grace-St. Ed's Sunday Nov. 23 Winner of Section A vs. Winner of Section B 
Basketball 

The Interhall Athletic Office has released plans for the 1969-70 Interhall Basketball season. The major change is that halls are no longer permitted to enter an unlimited number of teams. Halls have been granted teams on the basis of popula­tion, approximately one team per hundred residents. Planner, Grace, and Off-Campus are per­mitted four teams each; Dillon, Keenan, and Stanford are allow­ed three teams each; all other halls are considered two-team halls, except Carroll which is limited to one team. The pri­mary reason given for limiting the number of teams was the unusually high forfeit rate of last year, approximately 33% of the 
teams forfeited aut of the league. There will also be a mandatory deposit of $15.00 to cover the payment of officials. 
Any team forfeiting a game will also forfeit whatever remains of their deposit. 
Those interested in forming teams should see their hall athletic commissioners. Rosters may contain as many as fifteen names; deadline for submitting rosters is November 25th. Play is slated to begin December 6th. It was also announced that sopho­more Bob Webb has been appointed Interhall Basketball Commissioner. 
Hockey 

Notre Dame Hockey will be­gin its second season on the 

Notre Dame split-end Tom Gatewood has mixed success with the long bomb last Saturday. (Bottom) Tom beat his man in the first period but quarterback Joe Theisman overthrew him. (Above) Later, Gatewood grabbed this pass over the middle, shook off Pitt's George Pribbish, broke another tackle, and reached the end zone to complete a 39-yard scoring play. 

Soccer 
Western Illinois added insult to an already disappointing Notre Dame soccer season by whipping the Irish 2-1 at WIU on Saturday. The home team led at the half 2-0 with the aid of some muffed chances by the Irish offense. The lone ND score came off the foot of Fred Rohol who was assisted on a cross pass by Jim Schweitzer. 
The men from Du Lac put up a strong fight considering Western had no less than eight scholarship players. The game was a real struggle and the Irish 
took  quite  a  physical  ham­ 
mering.  
This  loss  left  Notre  Dame  

with a mediocre 5-4-2 record, far off the initial prediction by team captain Greg Abrams of l 0-2. The boaters will give it one last try this Saturday as they host the Marquette Warriors at the Stepan fields. Game time is 
10:30 a.m. 

Convo ice with a general draft of tains viewing the skating and players this Wednesday night. shooting performances before Joe Kuchta, league president, the picking. A five-dollar entry decided upon a draft to "balance fee to be paid the night of the the league." Skaters from last draft will be required of all year will remember the gross players to cover the purchasing inequities of the '68-'69 squads. of jerseys and the renting of ice-
All players interested in parti-· time. Seven team captains, al­cipating should meet with their ready chosen by the league's equipment, ready to skate at the front office, will do the picking Convo Rink on Wednesday night for this year's squads. Everyone at 8:30PM. This will be a sort of who shows up at this session will "try-out" session with the cap-be chosen for one of the teams. 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:!:~:~:::~:~:~:::::::::::::~:::::::;:~:~:~:~:=:=:~:!:~:;:;:::~:~:;:~:~:~:;:~:~:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 


JIM MURRAY 
She Jumps 
for Joy 
© 1969, Los Angeles Times 

I supoose the most famous English horsewoman ever was Lady Godiva. She was the original bareback rider. History records that the original "Peeping Tom" was the only male who violated orders and gazed on her ride and was struck blind for his impertinence but I have always thought he was just a clocker who thought they were sneaking a work into the horse to set him up for a price, and wouldn't have known the rider from Lord Godiva. 
Since that time people on horseback have usually worn clothes, even if they have consisted mainly of feathers and a breech cloth, and they have pretty much spoken baritone. The only females in the cavalry have four feet and a saddle. 
Anneli Drummond-Hay is the most famous, fully-dressed lady rider in British history. She can do more things on horseback than the James boys. She may be the best over hedges and rocks in female history. She's on horseback more than John Wayne. She can do more things with a horse than Willie Shoemaker. 
The horse is supposed to be a dying breed, except for the thoroughbred, but the only form of transportation that outnumbers it is the automobile. The nice thing about the horse is it doesn't cause smog, and the fuel it uses doesn't pollute rivers and oceans. It rarely causes fatal accidents; in fact, it runs more than 50,000 a year behind the automobile. The National Safety Council rates it safer than roller skates. 
There are more horses in California today than there were in Black Bart's day. The Indians never would have lost if they had the cavalry the San Fernando has. 
No Shortcuts 

Ann eli is a tall, blonde Englishwoman whose speciality is jumping horses. This is an equestrian event in which a horse is asked to run >t mile over 12 to 17 obstacles, ranging in height from a minimum of 3' -9" to a maximum of 5 feet. The rider is required to stay aboard. 
A horse who will jump is like a horse who will buck. There is no form. There are no shortcuts of breeding, training or conformation. It is believed bucking horses were developed from range animals that had to learn to kick wolfpacks. Jumping horses were, presumably, pasture animals who wouldn't let barbed wire or stone hedges stand between them and a field of green grazing. 
Anneli, who is the current All-European show jumping champion, 
and who will be one of a group of international show jumpers 
competing for the Nations' Cup at the new $750,000 equestrian 
center in Diamond Bar this weekend, found her companion jumping 
horse, prophetically named Merely A Monarch, grazing on thistle in 
a Yorkshire farmland I 0 years ago. She paid about 300 pounds 
($720) for the mount, and the farmer cashed the check quickly 
before she found out the horse couldn't talk. 
He was part pony, part thoroughbred and part outlaw. He bucked 
Anneli off several times, somersaulted with her a few others. She 
broke the horse, also a collarbone, and eased him into jumping with 
a few fox chases, cross-country events, and log leaping. He got so ne 
would jump anything that didn't have elevators in it. 
She was offered $75,000 for Merely A Monarch recently, but 
there are some who feel he might be strictly yellow-ribbon without 
Miss Drummond-Hay on his back. Horses have been known to refuse 
jumps if they could tell by their rider's knees that he was getting 
ready to bail out. Anneli would take a crack at anything Merely A 
Monarch would. She would jump the London Bridge for a gold 
metal. 

History doesn't record whether Lady Godiva took any hedges or 
water hazards or whether she used the English or Western saddle, or 
whether she kicked off a top rail or two or what her fractions were 
on her ride. We're not sure whether she went wide a Coventry. But 
milady Drummond-Hay is the first equestrienne in British annals 
who can draw a crowd to watch her ride with her hat and coat and 
breeches on and where only the horse is naked. 

