
VOL. IV, No. 23 Serving the Notre Dame and Sa{nt Mary's College ('ommuni~l' THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16,1969 

Mike Murphy 

On the inside ... 
O'Meilia sees hope • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • see p. 4 The pressure on Gatewood • ••• • • • • • • • • • see p. J2 
Faces in the crowd 
••••••••••••• •••••• Seep. 5 
Main quad rally, peace walk • • • ••• • • •• • • Sec p. 8 
Vigil opens moratorium ••• • • • • • • • • • • • • See p. 9 
Darst, Cullen address rally • • • • • • • • • • • • • • See p. 9 
Hundreds attend resistance mass 
••••••••• Seep. 2 
Jim Hunt 
PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16,1969 

Christian peace, love at Resistance Mass 
by Mark Walbran 
"They shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into sickles; one nation shall not raise the sword against another,

0 
nor shall they train for war .0 
agafn." 

....: 
So directed Yahweh from

-; 
Sion in the Book of Micah. Read aJ _ by Tim MacCarry of the Notre ~ t· Dame Resistance, these words c..C: were from the first reading of ::s : the Resistance Mass celebrated ~ :E yesterday afternoon on the tree­
o bl) lined mall of the Memorial Li­~ '0 brary. .-The mass was com:elebrated c0 by Archbishop H.D. Roberts, Fr. >. David Burrell, Fr. Earnest Bar­1':1 tell, Fr. John Gerger, Fr. Mau-E rice Amen, Fr. William Lewers, 
Fr. John Cocran, and Fr. Ray Rumde. William Storey, Asso­ciate Professor of Theology, act­ed as lector. 
The celebrants used a simple altar draped with a brown altar cover bearing the sign of the 
Greek letter omega. The priests were all in white vestments. At the offertory of the Mass two professors and four'students 
including a woman tore apart their draft cards, signifying their resistance to the Vietnam War. Their action marked the found­
ing of the Notre Dame Resist-
The members of the Resist­ance are: Chuck Darst, Junior in Communication Arts; James Douglass, Assistant Professor of Non-Violence; Tom Henekan, Senior in the General Program; Tim MacCarry, Senior in Psycho­logy and Anthropology; Peter Smith, Assistant Professor of Mathematics at Saint Mary's Col­lege; and Karen Weller, Senior in, Philosophy at Saint Mary's. 
Acting as spokesman for the group, James Douglass said at the Mass: 
"We believe that conscience in obedience to (;od and to the dignity of man must resist a law which enforces murder. .. We can no longer cooperate with a ·system which makes objects of men and which deepens the ex­
ploitation of the yoor and the blacks in America by sending them first to fight a war against the Vietnamese poor ... "We therefore refuse all coop­eration with the institution of killing, and in this Mass of Peace we signify our non-cooperation with evil by tearing up our draft cards, the woman completing this act of civil disobedience ... "By our actions here today, in forming the Notre Dame Resist­ance, and by our continuing to spread this truth of resistance and civil disobedience to a law of death, we e that we can 


help return America to the path of life..." 
After destroying their draft cards the six put their arms over each others shoulders and stood at the Epistle side of the altar. 
They were smiling. 
0 range banners with the peace symbol and blue banners with the outline of a dove waved above the large crowd which filled in the mall. Mr. Hesburgh, President of the university, stood somberly in the crowd to the left, behind the altar. Five musicians from Moreau Semi­nary played during the Mass from the back of an old grey 
truck. Their songs included "Turn, Turn, Turn," and "Let's Get Together." 
Archbishop Roberts led the prayers at the Consecration. Afterwards the whole body re­cited the Lord's Prayer and everyone shook hands with the greeting, "Peace." 
Communion followed. The priests went down into the crowd and distributed commun­ion. The seminarians sang: 
"Peace I leave with you, my friends, I give to you, so you can give to others too." 
Archbishop Roberts gave the final blessing and said: "The mass is ended. Go in Peace." 
The six members of the Re­sistance were then surrounded by supporters and well wish­ers. A student approached Fr. Bartell and said, "Now I know what it means to go to a Christ­ian University.,. 

PIZZA HUT SIT-IN 
Every Mon. • Tues. 5 • 9 
$1.00 any small -$1.50 any large PIZZA $!/pitcher EVERY WEDNESDAY NIGHT 

Little violence marks Moratorium 
The largest crowd in Boston's history -between 75,000 and I 00,000 persons by police estimate -gathered on the historic Common and heard Sen. George F. McGovern, D, S.D., say Nixon must listen to the demands for peace. 
A hushed crowd estimated by 
U.S. park police at 50,000 huddled on the Washington Monument grounds in Washington and heard a plea by Mrs. Martin Luther King Jr. that the President "bring the boys home . . . bring them home now." 
Several thousand protesters ­marching I 5 abrease and chanting "peace now" marched in the candlelight parade in New York from Bryand Park to the United Nations and on to Rockfeller Center. 
As estimated 30,000 persons demonstrated at New Haven, Conn.' I 5,000 persons gathered at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J., 12,000 jammed Kennedy Square iil Detroit, 12,000 rallied in Pittsburgh 

18 PIECES OF 




ATTENTION RACE FANS 
SOUL will be In 

The position of
Stepan Center Friday night 
Grand Prix Chairman is still open 
THE FIRST FRIDAY 

at 8:30 to entertain you 
for further information please write: 
Dance Concert

and 500 girls 
2nd Floor LaFortune


SOCIAl. COMMISSIONER 
9:00 I I:30 this Friday

from Midwest 
after the pep rally


BOX 427
colleges 
$1.00 per person

NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
or call 7489 between 3 and 5 pm 



THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1969 THE OBSERVER. PAGE 3 
Record crowds protest at Big Ten schools 
by Glen Corso 
Upwards of 75,000 people 

participated in Viet Nam War 
Moratorium activities in the Big 
I 0 schools yesterday. With the 
exception of Indiana University 
and Purdue, all the demonstra­
tions included more than 3,000 
people, those two had more than 
I ,000. In many cases the protest 
was the largest in the history of 
the school. All of the campuses 
had successful teach-ins and 
speeches. 
At the University of Illinois, 

there was an official class break 
for one-half hour. During that 
time a rally was held at the 
union building with the speakers 
including William Clark, former 
Illinois attorney general, and 
singer Eartha Kitt. 
Miss Kit said, "If President 

Nixon doesn't hear today, I 
think we are going to have to do 
it over and over again until he 
does." 
Clark also scored Nixon's 

statement that he would not be 
affected by the moratorium say­
ing, "The time has come for us 
to criticize our government. I 
cannot believe that our President 
will not listen to the people here 
today and all over the nation." 
5,000 people attended the ral­

ly which included folk singing. 
Later in the day a march was 
held from the campus into 
downtown Champagne through 
a business district and into the 
park for a rally. A croY. d esti­
mated between 9 and I0,000 
people were strung out for 
blocks, carying signs and ban­
ners. Most of the marchers wore 
arm-bands which said "44,798 
dead." 
Meg <;unkcl, a staff reporter 

for the Daily lllini, said of the 
march, "It was fantastic, the 
greatest thing we ever had." 
The key speakers at the rally were Linda Quit!, one of the Chicago 15 who burned draft records last May and who is now on trial facing possibly 24 years in jail, and Mike Presser a former 
draft counselor for the Univer­
sity. A Vietnam veteran also 
spoke. lie said, "I feel that I 
have a mandate to talk to you 
from those that have died. It's 
wrong to say that these people 
will have died in vain, they have 
already died in vain." 
After the rally a student was 

arrested by the police for disor­
derly conduct. Approximately 
2500 people marched down to 
the Federal Building to secure his release. Several representatives talked to the police and they agreed to let him go. Lee Weiner, one of the "Chicago 8" spoke last night. He denounced the war and urged the audience to work against it. 
Jerry Rubin, one of the "Chicago 8" speaking to an audi­ence of I ,000 people at Indiana University in Bloomington, said "We arc on trial because we arc young. It's an old man's war and they are sending us out to fight it. The best we can do to end the war is to close the schools. They can't operate smoothly as long as America has a Vietnamese concentration camp." 
Only I0'.*, of the students at the University of Michigan at­tended classes yesterday. Of the 35,000 students registered, be-
Tlhe Observer Is published a.ITy during the college semester except vK~~tlons by the students of the Unhrwslty of Notre D•m• •nd St. MM"y's College. Subscriptions m•y bO purchued for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre D•me Ind., 46556. Second cl•ss post•!ll' ~ld, Notre D•m• Ind. 46556. 

tween 25 and 30,000 partici­pated in the various moratorium activities. The program included teach-ins, panel discussions and a speech by former Secretary of Labor Willard Wirtz. 
Wirtz told the audience, "Pre­sident Johnson never held a dis­cussion with the members of the domestic cabinet on the Viet­nam war." 
Later in the day a sit-in was held at the Ann Arbor draft board by 50 University of Michi­gan students. 
Michigan State University Pre­sident Walter Adams told a crowd of 8.000 students "We are no longer alone. In fact, some of us may have to quit this move­ment soon, it is getting too damn respectable." Senator Philip Hart of Michigan also ad­dressed the crowd. He said "Being personally against Presi­dents Johnson and Nixon does not contribute to the debate on 
the war." He suggested that "tel­
ling Americans that their sons and husbands have died in vain is 



,, . 
not easy, but it is the truth." 

Northwestern University had teach-ins, some leafletting, a concert including the Chicago I. cast of HAIR and Cotton Mat­' her, and a speech by Representa­tive Abner Mikva. Mikva told an audience of about 3,000 people that "the United States should immediately withdraw all troops from Vietnam." 
Almost I 0,000 University of Minnesota students marched to the Federal building in down­town Minneapolis led by several Vietnam veterans carrying a casket. As the marchers converg­ed on the Federal building, the police, led by Mayor Charles Stenvig appeared. Stenvig order­ed the police to disperse the crowd, saying "If they don't get out of here I want them arrest­ed." 
The University of Wisconsin had 15,000 of its students parti­cipating in over 70 Vietnam War 
continued on p. 11 


It wasn't too long ago that Bill Leith's future wasstill a big question m·ark. 

Today he'sa man with the answers. 
Bill Leith started as one of our management trainees tions before entrusting their money to us. shortly after graduating from Lake Forest. Bill has the answers. 
Two years later he was an administrative assistant, Responsibility? handling new business for our Equity Management A small fortune's worth. service. But then we have lots of responsibility to hand out. 
Just last June he became our youngest Assistant In­If you'd like to know more about the opportunities at 
vestment Officer. Marine Midland, please add your name to our schedule in His job is a big one. the placement office. Our customers are likely to ask many searching ques-We'd like to see you on NOVEMBER 10,1969 
MARINE MIDLAND GRACE 
TRUST COMPANY OF NEW YORK 

PAGE 4 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
DONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Publisher GAETANO DE SAPIO, Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3 1966 


The Moratorium 
Words cannot describe what happened here yesterday at Notre Dame. If you were there you felt it. If not, it wouldn't do you any good to read about it here -for it was feeling, pure feeling. The whole day made one wonder about not only Vietnam, but about the . whole concept of war, non-violence, fraternity and love. 
Much of the feeling of yesterday paralleled some of the old phrases that used to appear in the Baltimore Catechism. Nearly everyone talked about peace, but kind of wondered if it was ever really possible. It was as if man was condemned from the beginning to suffer --not only physically -but the inextricable mental agony of trying to decide to follow the practical way or the path of ideals. 
There is no set answer to that last question. The answer must be found by each man, though the use of his heart and his intelligence and to the best of his means. 
If one would look a little deeper into the nature of a university, it would be obvious that that search is what a university is all about. It is in that sense that we support yesterday's moratorium. We applaud, especially, its non-violence. It stood in stark contrast to many anti-Vietnam protests and to what many Americans thought would happen yesterday. 
Putting feeling aside, we must caution against the idea of simplistic answers to all of the world's problems. Problems are solved by the dedicated commitment of many minds to a solution and by the persistant efforts of many men to see them resolved. 
We feel that a University must be a place where men dedicate their minds and their lives to finding answers to not only the world's problems, but to what life will mean for them. It must be a place where legitimate protest and expression of conscience must be not only every man's right -but every man's duty. ~ 
Leaders in this community of scholars must encourage men, when they have reached the point where they can make an hone~t decision, to stand on their conscience and on their principles. 
We feel that that is what happened yesterday. We know that many members of the University community may disagree with many of the sentiments that were expressed. We call now upon those members of the community to come forth and engage in honest dialogue -not only about the war, but about the many other moral issues raised. 
The strength of thY, University will lie in the magnitude of that discussion. Quite possibly our dialogue will be fruitful and bring us closer to finding answers to man's problems. If not, we hope that discussion will lead us to a better understanding of ourselves and of each other. 
The majority of mankind's sufferings have their root in misunderstanding. A great University should be a place that breeds understanding and not suffering. 


Hershey's dismissal 
We applaud President Nixon's decision to remove General Hershey from his post as director of the Seletive Service. 
Hershey's post is not a popular one since any directive that comes out of his office is bound to draw criticism from the segment of Americans that it directly affects. But it was Hershey's attitude toward those who attacked the Selective Service System or sought to change it that made him all the more unpopular. 
His advice to draft boards in 1967 suggesting that persons who "illegally" obstructed the Selective Service System or harmed the national interest should be reclassified for induction served to point out his lack of understanding about the feelings of many American youths. Up until May, he stood vehemently opposed to any refonn of the draft system which had to do with the idea of a lottery or the concept of an all-volunteer army. 
All this is not to demean the character of an individual who has served the country earnestly and well. Since his appointment to the post in 1941 Hershey has seen the call up of over 14.5 million Americans without there once being any suggestion of scandal or conscious bias. 
The system itself was lent toward inequity however, and Hershey's efforts to defend it were regrettable. 
President Nixon suggests that the general will be replaced with a civilian. We sup~ort the move enthusiastically and suggest that the primary goal of Hershey s replacement be to see the end of the Selective Service System. 
Davrd Breen, Business Manager Photo Editor: Phil Bosco Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. Features Editor: Tom Ehrbar News Editor: Glenn Corso Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Copy Editor: David Stauffer Night Editor: Dave Stauffer Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Layout Design: Phil Barth Ann Conway, Laura Haferd, Jeanne Headlines: Rich Smith,Jan Reimer, Sweeney, Prudence Wear Randy Young,Dan Shaw 
Layout Editor: Mary Beth Crirnminr. Layout: Susie Bury,Patty Lipscomb Cind Serve 
The oprnwns in the editorials, news analyses, and columns of The Observer are solely those of the authors and editors of The Observer and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administrations, faculty or student bodies. 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1969 
A post-moratorium tribute to the ND-SMC ,community. 

I'd like to join you but I really have to go to Chern! 

Tim O'Meilia 
A little hope 
Yesterday 2000 people watched, or rather, truly participated in a 
death and life march and resistance Mass which exuded, from every 
soul there, an extraordinary hope in the future of humankind. It was 
clear, I think, that the Mass was more than a mere plea to extricate 
ourselves from an unjust war. There was a genuine belief that 
America can still mend her ways, and that, perhaps, the p~ople this 
fire-gutted world of ours can learn how to live with his brothers. 
I must confess that before yesterday I had little respect for Notre 
Dame, St. Mary's and their students. For the most part, I found 
them to be sterile, unimaginative, unconcerned and unwilling to lift 
a foot to step out of that gummy slop. Notre Dame is a place of 
great rhetoric which gives birth to impressive images which flit about 
the country and the campus, but have no true substance. To 2000 
people, I apologize. 
It was a nice moment. And perhaps that is all it will be. We know 
it is all too easy to fast for one day, march around silently with our 
heads doen and shake hands with each other and say "peace." Last 
night Michael Cullen said, "I'll wager that tonight President Nixon 
wishes he had never heard of Oct. 15." Perhaps, but if one day is all 
we can manage, then very little will change in our world. 
Look at the seven people who performed their act before an 
oogling audience yesterday. Their glowing, grinning faces attested to 
their freedom. That communal hope that we felt at the library 
should then mean 2000 glowing, grinning, free faces, shouldn't it?· 
And this involves a personal decision to move in the direction a 
person's sense of justice, his conscience, tells him he must, not the 
mere destruction of a draft card. 
Today the Chicago Tribune, which modestly proclaims itself the 
worlds greatest newspaper, said in an editorial, "Organizers of the 
so-called Viet Nam War Moratorium, which will be observed 
thro~ghout the country, today, are adherents of the enemy, openly 
workmg for the defeat and humiliation of the United States as we 
said yesterday." And indeed it said that yesterday, also mentioning 
"full-page newspaper ads signed by bug-out senators, Dr. Benjamin 
Spock, and other handmaidens and heralds of Hanoi." 
The Tribune did excuse those who sincerely believe the U.S. should withdraw from a war "which it cannot or is not trying to win." I would seem that perhaps defeat and humiliation would be just the right combination for a nation which is moving further and further from the ideals on which it was founded. The Tribune fails ·to realize that the American virtue it so forthrightly ~xtols is but a shade. How can a country which hails self-determination, life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness justify itself when it denies the Vietnamese their own self-determination, controls the wealth of 
South American nations and denies opportunity to its own poor? 
Th~se young, long-haired rr.archers of yesterday better understand 
the mmds of the handful of harried old men who hurriedly scribbled 
the Declaration of Independence a couple of hundred years ago than 
do the editorial writers of the Chicago Tribune. 
It is gratifying to see that Mr. Nixon is at least now saying he is 
ready to leave Vietnam, but not for one second does he, or many of 
the ~eople across this country, think that the pursuit of that was for 
the mdependence of Vietnam, a euphemism for the self-interest of 
~he u.n~ted States, is _wrong in the slightest. But, why fight a losing or 
mdeclSlve war, especially when people are getting restless? 
The Tribune reports that in 1938 Roosevelt denounced war 
opponents as Copperheads and recalled that in the civil war the 
Copper~eads "tried their best to make Lincoln and his Congress give 
up the fight ... and return to peace -peace at any price." 
It seems to me that the price of it was greater. 


THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16,1969 
PAGE 5 



Moratoriuming it at Notre Dame 
Two ND students: 
"Regardless of what happens after­wards, we should get out of Viet Nam now. The whole thing was a mistake; no person or particular policy can be blamed. It was caused by an attitude which has been being built up in Ameri­can people for hundreds ofyears that this country can do no wrong." 
~ ·~ 
7 ' ' •. 

by Laura Haferd 
ND sophomore: 
"It is unfair for me to have any advantage over anyone else in this coun­try in getting a draft deferment. I would like to see a lottery started to handle our 
military needs. " 
"I hope the moratorium is not expect­ing any change in the policy. We don't have the responsibility, so it's easy for us to dissent. At this point, it is absolutely necessary that we trust the President. The only thing that I would like to see is for the U.S. to admit we made a mistake and 
to go on from there." 


SMC freshman: 
"I have never seen anything like this here. It is beautiful to see people turning out to express their opinions. More people are thinking today. Hven the Saint Mary's girls seem awakened, maybe because the issue was thrown right into their faces. Today is a testimony to the awareness which we probably all have, but which we never see in others, or very seldom." 


Steven Wasinger, former facul­ty member at SMC who was r£'/eased last year after one year of teaching: presently teaching ou I east: 
"America may be indicted by history for its role in Viet Nam, but the important thing is the indictment which will come from the world today. " 
"As for that rumor that I fled the country to avoid the dra[t, did I really fail to teach you girls to avoid jumping to conclusions.? 
Observer photos by Laura Haferd 

l'roj: Syburg, University facul­ty member: 
"It is good to participate in this moratorium as witnesses to our feelings on the war. We need positive immediate action. How­ever, I have reservations about the escalation of this f(Jrm of protest by holding a longer one next month. This would be more an attack on the University than on the policy makers. Studying and dramatizing the issue is im­portant, but the university must be kept open and free. See me again in Novem he~ " 

"I believe that the moratorium pro­testers are more idealistic than selfish or irresponsible. There is real(v no room for an idealist in the world today. Politicians will use the prevailing temperment to their own advantage, of course. The student movement is growing up, and pretty soon they will begin to court our vote. The movement will be channelled into a political victory and then it will be interesting to see what happens." 

SMC student from Venezula: 
The moratorium as a pressure movement is useless, absolutely nothing." 

Professional social worker from Cleveland, Ohio, presently awaiting indictment for draft resistance, with family: 
"First ofall, I believe that war is immoral." 
"The effect of demonstration so far has been to frighten the administration, Nixon's statement to the contrary. How can he ignore hundreds of thousands ofpeople reacting to a devastating and degrading war? As a group, we are reinforcing our commitment inwardly, which may be just as important now as expressing it to the policy makers." 
"We should immediately get out of Viet Nam. This is not in the realm of politics. It is simply a personal moral issue. Tile face is, we played a part in causing the war and we are continuing to support 
totalitarian governments." 


----------------~ 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1969
PAGE 6 

THE OBSERIJDl. 


Beth Malmsheimer 



• \ 
Phil BOSCO

Beth Malmshelmer 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1969 PA_G_E_7
------=711.:.=~ _t;JBSERfi!R. ________________________ 

John Klstel 


"Experience· teaches that 
sil~nce 


terrifies the most." 


Mike Murphy


-Bob Dylan 
Beth Malmshelrner 


Phil Bosco 

Jim Hunt 


r 
_P_AG_E_a____________________________________21f.~~!_0BSERV£R THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16,1969 
Over 2,000 attend 
•





Speakers address student rally on ma1n quad 
by Bro. Patrick Carney Considering many of the rcvo-good versus evil concept of 
and Jim Graif lutions of the past, Darst warned World War 11. But even in a clear 
Peace reigned on the main against a "we made it · -no, we cut war like that, he added, we quad this afternoon. Not only blew it" result. He cited revolu-are capable of atrocities. was it the topic of the speeches tions in France, U.S.S.R., Korea, In the Viet Nam war, Mr. at the rally, but also prevaled and China as all having been Darst feels that the distinction is among the people in the crowd fought in the name of justice impossible because the war itself estimated by WN DU at 2000 and bringing us to our present is an atrocity. He maintained and in the settling of disputes. state of affairs. that "bombing of civilians con-
The first confrontation occur-Darst sees the present revolu-stitutes the war and the only 
red at I: 20 when a group of first tion as differing in three major way to stop the bombing is to 
year law students raised the flag aspects from those of the past. stop the war." He further feels 
h. h h d b 1 d b The first of these is a belief J·n

w Jc a een owere y or-rage at what the country is doing 
ganizers of the rally. These men, the humanity of the enemy· in the name of it's citizens. 
who asked that they not be Warning against becoming like Before leaving the podium, he 
identified other than as Navy Stalin who "took guns from the advised all present that it is 
veterans, felt that only establish-Czar shooting the poor and shot "morcfun to make Jove and 
ed authority had the right to the bourgeoisie," he called for peace than to hate and fear each 
lower the flag to half mast. the assembly to plan to "joi:: other." 

Moratorium supporters main-with the enemy·" Following this, McKenna in­
tained that it was an act of Rather than feeling that if the troduced Gil Cardenaz, a Gra­
respect for the war dead. The enemy is destroyed everything duate Stdent of Sociology who 
law students agreed that they will be O.K., Darst asked for an spoke on the relationship be­
were sympathetic to mourning act of faith. Not too many peo-tween imperialism and internal 
the dead among whom they pie believe peace is possible, he colonization of Blacks and In­
numbered many friends but said. To believe that requires an dians. 

questioned the act of taking the act of faith in mankind. Cardenaz also addressed him­
law into one's own hands. Secondly, he felt that the self to non-violence. He said that 
The main scene ot action ability to laugh at ones fears and it is a beautiful thing and "if 
switched to the stage as folk rationalizations is necessary. you're sincere about non-via­
singers entertained the assembly .This revolution shouldn't be as lence, I'll support it --it's got 
with anti-war songs while mar-unbending as others have been. to come fast though." He liken­
shalls took up a collection. Celebration was cited as the ed his view to that of the Cali­
Funds were earmarked for pay-final hopeful sign·. If it were not fornia grape workers who Caesar 
ing for expenses of the stage, for this ability to rejoice in life, Chavez is trying to organize and 
PA, and the like although it was he felt that the movement would who "don't want to wait." 
later announced that the PA was not be too appealing. Uistaff representation came to 
donated by Captain Electric. Destroy cards the meeting when Karen Weller 
Any excess money will be used of St. Mary's took the micro-
to prepare for the November Following his own speech, phone. She charged that women 
Darst introduced his brother have been by-passed by historyMoratorium which will be more ·Chuck who is a Notre Dame .adding that "if mankind is goinginvolved with the South Bend Student. The younger Darst ex-to be changed, you've got to Community. 
plained why he would be one of have our half too." Just before the speakers began those to destroy his draft card at In the past, Miss Weller said, their addresses, Student Body 1 t · h d
mass a er m t e ay. women have been unaffected byPresident Phil McKenna intro-
He felt that it is easy to wipe wars. They were not expected to duced the High School Students one's hands of a war which is fight and for the most part were who had marched to the half a world away and which not killed. Now, she feels, things 
campus. They received a stand-does not bother him directly. He have changed. Since it does not ing ovation. 

could not see accepting a war demand masculine strength to Brother David Darst, F.C.S. of which "has seen more bombs fill test tubes for chemical war,the Catonsville 9 who himself d d y· N
roppe on Jet am th<:IJ design weapons, or push but-had taken off from De La Salle World War II and K orca comb'm-tons, she points out the females High School in Kansas City ed." do play an active part in the war. where he is teaching began the Darst continued that he had Furthermore, she maintains that talks..___________~b~e~e~n~b~r~o~ugEht_ uo with_ a total they are being killed in Viet· 
<tu~tom 1Leatbrr ~uob~ Jfflabe to ~our ®rber 


• 
.
"3/u~t ~bGut" t\Jerptbiug tn tbi' picture is for salt at: 
JLeatber 1Ltb. 118 ~oulb ;fflain $treet 
Nam along with their childn:n in this war. 
Miss Wdler challenged all women to respond. Not to reach beyond immediate surroundings, she told them, is to be only half a person. She further warned that unless a woman forces her­self to give, "very soon she won't have any self to giveto anybody." 
Another Notre Dame student, 
Senior Tim MacCarry, followed Karen. In what was the longest talk of the afternoon, Tim quoted from Gandhi, the Decla­ration of Independence, and a similar declaration by the Irish Republic in 1917. 
Neo-colonialism 
MacCarry's thesis was that all of these deal with the same problem facing the country to­day --colonialism. He stated that after World War II this became "neo-colonialism" where instead of sending in foreign rulers, the imperialistic nation would set up a "puppet govern­ment" of natives who were sympathetic to the colonizing government. 
Stating that this enabled the rich nations to get wealthier at the expense of the poor, Mac­Carry explained how profits are taken from the "nco-colony" in three ways. In taking the natural resources from the underdeve­loped country, the mines and other sources are owned by in­terests in the colonizing country which profit from their opera­tion. Later, after these are work­ed into finished products, the items are shipped back to the country of origin and sold to the people there at a profit. Finally, Mr. MacCarry said, as the coun­try developes, factories are built but they are owned by citizens of the imperialist country. 
Moving to the Viet Nam war 
itself, MacCarry charged that the 
U.S. paid for 80% of France's 
expenses in its final year in Viet Nam. America, he said,also sup­ported the suppression of an election there because, as Eisen­hower said, 80% would have voted for President Ho. 
After quoting from the South Vietnamese National Front for Liberation, he stated that it would be futile if we get out of Viet Nam thinking it was some kind of mistake. That is, he feels that the anti-war movement should not end with the end of the Viet Nam war. 
England's noted pacifist Arch­bishop T.D. Roberts began his address by commenting that Karen Weller's talk made a lot of sense to him. It reminded the archbishop of Aristophenes' sug­gestion of 3,500 years ago. The Greek comic urged women to end war by refusing their hus­bands in the breakfast room and in the bed room. He thought it might be a good idea to bring to the United States --perhaps by film, he quipped. 
Commenting on the contro­versy surrounding the turning in of draft cards at the mass, Roberts noted that Notre Dame might be the only place in the country where the mass is con­nected with draft cards. Admit­ting that this might shock some people, he suggested a reply. 
"When we go to mass, es­pecially daily mass," the cleric said, "we often celebrate the feast of a martyr. Nearly all were put to death for some form of disobedience." Pointing out that 
these saints followed their con­
scienq:, Archbishop Roberts 
urged that "we ought to obey 
God rather than men." 
At this point in the proceed­
ings, McKenna noticed a large 
"Bomb the Cong" sign in the 
audience and invited representa­
tives of this point of view to 
present their case. When two 
came forward, the Student Body 
President asked the assembly if 
they wanted to hear one or 
both. The body replied "both" 
Former Hungarian Freedom 
Fighter Joseph Szalay came 
forth first. He told the demon­
strators that they really did not 
understand what it was like to 
live and suffer under Communi­
sm. 
He pointed out that in a Communist Society one would not even be able to enjoy the freedom of speech which was being exercised on the campus at the time. Refering to his own twelve years of experience under a Communist government, Mr. ·Szalay said that in order to speak freely, one had either to speak in secret or "be tortured as I was." If any student did not believe him, he suggested that such a person visit behind the Iron Curtain and then make a 
judgement. 
Szalay sees any unilateral stoppage of the war as futile. He said "I don't see how we can stop wars if International Com­munism doesn't want us to." He 
continued on p. 9 

L___ 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16,1969 TNB O&S'£RIEit 
PAGE 9 


Candlelight march expands vigil 
by Bill Carter Tuesday night at l I :30 there for peace through (;oct's word. toward l he ( ;rotto. were about I00 people scattered Following the reading the hy rnn Undaunted hy the cold or the among the pews at Sacred Heart "Where Charity and Love pre­late hour, the marchers decided Church. They had come to sit, vail" was sung beginning a pat­to extend their message of peace to kneel, to pray, and just to tern that was to continue hy continuing the prO!.:ession on offer their presence at the pre­throughout the vigil. towards St. Mary's. moratorium peace vigil. Immediately after the hymn a The reception at St. Mary's The vigil hegan slowly and group of the watchers proposed came mostly in the form of a solemnly. For the first half-hour a spontaneous candlelight march few girls staring out their wind­the only sounds reaching the around the campus in order to ows and waving or snapping pic­cars of those already present in hring the feeling of the vigil to as tures of the march. The girls in the hushed church were the con­many people on the campus as McCandless responded loudly to stant creaking opening and clos­possible. the singing of "stop the war ing noises of the double doors at The walk remained silent for now" and there was mention in only a little while. As the line
the end of the center aisle. the crowd of a "Peace Raid" on Through these passed a rather proceeded down toward the the hall. North Quad a few voiees were
steady now of people, most In the long march back along
raised softly in the hymn "Cum­

young hut some not so young, the road the group received an most male hut many female, all buya" and soon joined by the unexpeded escort from the In­whole group. i\s the procession
moved in some way to add diana Stale police who stood off 
themselves to the number of moved along the paths between to the side of the line and Phil BoiCO silent watchers. the dorms they sung the songs of 
;.>.-,~~c•,-'

merely observed the procession. ./ ,'-"<--,~; ·.~... ­Most were sitting separately, the movement, out of both the •I 
';r ..~, "I

The marchers responded with a spaced irregularly .around the Christian and the revolutionary 
chorus of "love the cops now." church, but there was an occa­tradition. "The Battle Hymn of 
It was past 2:30 when the line sional couple, close together, the Republic", "We Shall Over­finally arrived hack at the Grot­
hands locked. The group was come", "Give Peace a Chance," 
to and replaced the candles. Al­spotted with collars and habits "The Times They are A­most all headed for home right of assorted clerics; heavy coats changin'." and numerous others 
away, but a few gathered and were much in evidence, most were begun spontaneously and 
walked back to the church to decorated with small blue but­picked up by all the marchers. 
finish out the vigil. Talking of tons bearing the image of a dove. The reaction on campus to the 
the relevance of the whole idea 

/\round midnight the more or procession was moderate for the 
of a peace vigil, one of those less official functions of the vigil most part. A few appeared at 
who r-romiscd to remain all 

began. It was announced that windows and flashed the peace 
night said, "We know this isn't 

there would be readings relevant sign to the group, some managed 
like keeping the Congress open

to the war issue on the half-hour to voice a note of hostility. 
all night or anything like that,

all night, and an invitation was When the marchers passed Dillon 
hut it is important to us because 

extended to all to participate if Hall singing "You'll Know We 
it is the expression of Christians 

anyone had a particular reading arc Christians by Our Love" a 
united in a common purpose

of some special importance to voice rang out in the chill night, 
responding out of something

him. The first reading was an "If you're Christians, why don't 
that is deep in each one. This is a 

extract from the Book of La­you go to bed?" Undisturbed, the 
Christian statement, stated 

mentations. It immediately set march con tin ucd down the 
through something that we feel 

the tone for the whole evening's South Quad, turned in front of 
is a very essential part of Chris­

readings. The consistent theme the Rockne Building, crossed 
tianitY. namely a community

of all seemed to be the search down to the road and filed back spirit." John Kissel 
Crosses for ND dead placed at ROT~,~~!..~,9,,.~~b~,
8

contmued from p. St. Mary's Professor Peter $80 billion on destruction? Look-by marshalls· played taps. maintains that if we stop in Viet Smith next explained why he ing around at the campus he . Ta~gel had wished to retract The bearers of the crosses Nam, it will just start up in felt that in tearing up one's draft questioned "who is this built his Signature on the letter be-constisted of approximately another place. Himself a natural-card, the Selective Service l_ose_s ~ for, the poor?" He spoke of his cause he fel~ that the Iead_ers of equal numbers of Notre Dame ized citizen, Mr. Szalay asked part of its reality for the mdlVI-b the mo_ra_ tonL_Im had prost_Ituted men and St. Mary's women.
dream to help solve the pro -d d
tlytt all think over what they dual in question. Relating his k d the ongmal 1 ea. Accor mg to Many of whoill wore expressions
!ems of which he spo e an d h 
ere doing if they loved their experiences of four years in b him, they had turne w. at w_ as of grl·ef and deep sorrow. Several
asked if this dream would e d 
ountry. R.O.T.C. and four more in the to have been an open IScusswn of them knelt and prayed silent­
! h h d h. k corrupted by thefcw who decid-0 f h · A t. w
AIt wug e oes not t 111 Navy, Smith told how marching t e war mto an n I-ar Iy in front of the implanted that the students behind the with King, Groppi, and Chavez, cd to make a profit from the rally. Taegel further charged cross. 

moratorium are themselves Com-he came to see Christ's life as war. McKenna with trying to prevent--·------------, munists, he feels that there are one of resistance and called Life change even as muc~ opposition as did REDISCOVER Communists behind the ideas. upon all to follow this example occur by askmg the body whe £ 
Tom Connelly, a Graduate of Chrl·st. The final speaker of the rally ther to listen to one or two such TAP 
was Mike Cullen of the Milwau-

Student in the College of Busi-Another professor, Jim Doug-·speakers. 
RECORDING 
ness Administration and himself las of the Notre Dame Depart-ke~ 14 who_ began by saying that In speaking of the organizers V ~J k f h" bemg an lnshman he could not f th M T· egel sal·d
a iet ' am veteran, spo eo IS ment of Non-Violence also ad-h. k f b I t h . o e ra11 y, r. a 
t m o a etter p ace o e m "th b · · t as self
experiences. lie told the assem-dressed himself to the topic of ey were emg JUS ­hly of a Viet Cong massacre of a selective service. He claimed that than Notre Dame -righteous as Nixon." h I t b they re Cullen related how he came to Tlte "march for peace" fol-
w o e own ecause anyone who carries a draft card 
N F T this country as a seminarian only S
fLL~ed to support the .L. . es-1·s "consenting to the govern-lowed the speeches. tudents 
· h to find his whole life changed by 

tifying that he still has mg t-ment cla1 marched in silence three abreast
·m that it can order you
d h Vatican II and Martin Luther

mares about it, he reporte t at to kill whenever it says so." from the main quad to the 
II h b d. King. With regard to the famous · f
he was able to sme l e o 1es vurthcrmore, the professor felt R.O.T.C. building as a s1gn o 
5 000 f d t r civil rights leader, Cullen said h h
burning at , cet an wo that anyone with a 2-S is saying mourning for those w o ave
"I h" h t" that at one point he realized that

miles away. s t IS t e ac 1-"Leave me alone. I have to study died as a result of the war. 
" h k d " f h h he as a foreigner was able to .
vity • c as e ' o t ose w o while you force another to die in The crowd formed a 1me 
· J"b th · come to this country and be h d
are trymg to 1 crate e1r coun-my place." which at one point stretc e ?" aaccepted and admitted to the f k d h
trymcn. Douglas likened the draft card rom the spea ers stan at t e 
ro · h" f b · best schools and yet this same
"ivmg as IS reason or cmg to the pinch of incencc offered middle of the quad all the way anti-war the destruction of the to Caesar which many martyrs privilege was denied many who to the Rockne Memorial build­moral fibre of the nation which refused. lie added that unlike were born here and whose fathers ing. he sees as declining as a result of that inccnce, however, this one had worked to build the coun--Sixteen crosses which bore the war, Connelly cannot see has the power to destroy the try buring the last two talks: the names of Notre Dame grad­

VIctory as being worth the cost. world. To •nake nis point, the grad It is not the good Samaritan student related that he had seen that we must become in order to 
I 8 and 19 year olds turned into help solve the problems of hardened killers. lie had himself society according to Mr. Cullen. thanked them because their kill-Rather, he thinks that we must ing had kept him alive. become the man in the ditch. 
Despite this, he asked the This he claims is the ouly way gathering to forget their favorite that attitudes will be changed as politicians and their immediate they should. view and to think about the men Who arc we, he asked, to put in Viet Nam. Mr. Connelly said troops in over a hundred coun­that there are no heroics --all tries, to drop bombs, to spend the men there are scared. They 
1-lOIVE FOR RENT

live for one thing --to come 
home. The veteran requested 
Howard-across from Frankies that each of those gathered on grad students or uppndassmen the quad write to a man overseas fully carpeted-utilities furnished and tell him that he supports kitchen privileges him even if he does not support call 234-9305.
the war. _____..::.:.:....::.::....:_.:....:::..~~--­
Harold Tacgel, a Theology major uates who have been killed in who had signed the letter whi~o:h the war were placed on the lawn appeared in October b's opposite the R.O.T.C. buildin 


/'lore/co·
Observer tried to get to the by various members of the uni· 
150

microphone. lie was prevented vcrsity community. As eac 
REGULAR $64.50 

~:o;.·, $5997 
Craftsmen in Optin
ll 
B 

USE YOUR BANK CARD! FOR THE FINESJ EYEGLASSES AND CONT4CT lfNSi;S 
rHE SHERLAND BLDG.·-132 S. MICHIGAN ST.··!'..L:.tra1.~·1461'~' 
§i[.t;t¥Ut.*i 

OPEN DAILY 9-6 
SAT. 9a.m. to 5p.m. 
PH. 287-7218 
M~in Office. 13~ N. W.tbasto Avc.··Cnic~<l" 
774 Lincoln Way East 
THE OBSUWR. -THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16,1969
PAGE 10 


Rallies, memorials, harassments comprise Indiana moratorium 
The youths shouted back, in-the St. Joseph County Court­l'ollcge and university students, ( UPI) Thousands of Indiana 
eluding one who suggested the house in downtown South Bend joined by a few small groups of 
veteran go fight in Vietnam if he attended a noon hour morator­htgh school youths and pacifistic 
favorcd U.S. participation. ium service which included sing-adults, demonstrated peacefully Candlelight Marches ing, praying, and reading of a list yesterday in the nation wide Many of the observances be-of Hoosier dead in the war. A Vietnam War moratorium. gan Tuesday midnight with all-few businessmen were seen in 
At Gary, a march to the city night vigils including candlelight the group. Non-participants hall by about 225 black and marches, reading of lists of stood across the street watching. white high school students and American war dead, meditation, About I00 youths without 25 clergymen of various faiths and speeches. signs marched around the State-was interrupted by tin cans of Anderson College students house at Indianapolis briefly, urine tossed from a motel under held a convocation as a mem-shouting "Peace, peace." construction. orial to war dead and planted a Few businesses around the 
At Indianapolis' famous Mon­"tree of life" on campus sur-, state were reported closed by ument Circle during the noon rounded by a field of crosses. sympathetic owners. hour, a group of black and white At Ball State in Muncie, small An exception was a public youths traded shouts with a man groups were observed listening golf course at Bristol owned by who said he was a veteran of to the reading of war dead John Raber, who said "I feel World War II and Korea. names during the morning hours. strongly that this undeclared war 
"Arc you scared to fight for Rally at South Bend has gotten too far out of your country?" the man asked. About 500 persons in front of hand."
Jim Hunt 









esoes 
It's as ed>Y as saying Sigma Alpha Mu. All you do is drop a rilm cartridge into a Kodak lnstamatic camera and you have Gene before he's being had by h~ kids. In beautiful color snapshots or color slides. Indoors, pop on a rlashcube. That's c1ll there is to it. 
Kodak lnstamati(color cameras. From less than sJo. 
--------~---~---------------------------­
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1969 THE OBSERfJER 
Big protest centers in Washington 
WASHINC;TON (UP!) dramatic demonstration of puh­an antiwar rally culminated in an Scores of congressmen and thou­lk impatience wilh a war that attempt to storm the doors of sands of government employees drags on with no end in sight. 
the J>enlagon, nerve center of look part yesterday in rallies, Indirectly replying to Nixon's I he U.S. defense establishnll'nt. lion of those who died for us in
marches. vigils and other orderly pleas for nation;~] unity behind 
Vietnam."
dt•monstrations designed to administration policy, Mansfield 
Immediately following Van­
build pressure on President said: 
den llcuvcl as volunteer readers
Nixon to stop the war in Viet­"It is time to make dear that 
were New York Yankees Presi­
nam. this country is, indeed, united. It 
dent Michael Burk~: and ('larcncc
As the nation's capital, Wash­is united behind the Jlresi­
Jones and John Westergaard.
ington was a focal point for the dent-not in order to prolong 
Wall St rect investment bankers.
countrywide "moratorium on the war for face or fancy or at 
By 6 p.m. about 75 others,
business as usual" organiled by the behest of others, but to end 
including some of Wall Street's
antiwar groups. the war without prolonged de­
most prominent names, had
On the floors of the llousc lay." 
taken their turn before the mi­
and Senate. on the Capitol steps, The orderliness of the demon­
crophones and a battery of tele­
inside and outside government stration was in contrast to a 
vision cameras in the histork
buildings, on college campuses, bloody encounter which took 
dllln:h at the head of Wall
in l'hurchcs and in public parks, place almost exactly two years 
Street, only I00 yards from the
there were speeches appealing ago on Oct. 21, 1967 when 
New York Stock Fxchange.
for early and complete U.S. dis­
l'ngagement from the war that NEW YORK (UPI) A day CIIIC'AGO (UPI) A federal has cost nearly 40,000 American long reading of the names of judge yesterday refused to recess lives. Vietnam War dead yesterday be­the Chicago convention riot con­
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, (D. gan the participation of the Wall spiracy trial in observance of Mass.), said the moratorium was Street business and financial nationwide antiwar protests Wednesday or to permit the de­
intended to convey a respectful community in the Vietnam mor­fendants to absent themselves at
plea to Nixon. atorium. Kennedy said the message to At 8:50 a.m., lawyer William moratoriu 111 day rallies across 
the country.
the Jlresidcn t asked that he cut vanden Heuvel read the first 
Seven of the eight defendants,
loose from "the errors of past name, that of Elmer Lee Abels policy" and develop a policy of Jr., from a lectern in the front of appearing at a news conference, left open the question of
his own--"not one based on con­Trinity Church at Wall Street 
whether they would appear in ..
ditions beyond our control, not and Broadway. 
court as usual Wednesday or
one whose success is subject to Before beginning the reading veto by llanoi or Saigon. of the names at the rate of about defy U.S. District Court Judge Julius J. Hoffman.
In a prepared Senate speech, 20 to 30 a minute, Vanden Democratic Leader Mike Mans­lleuvel said that the reading was Defense attorney Leonard I. part of a "day of commemora-Weinglass later told the judge
rield called the moratorium a some of the defendants might find it "impossible" to be in 10,000 turn out for Illinois rally court Wednesday and asked him 

continued /rom p. 3 
moratorium programs yesterday. 
Some of the programs inducted 
the showing of anti-war movies, 
draft counseling, and the writing 
of 800 to 900 letters to Con­
gressmen demanding an end to 
the draft. The campus SDS pre­
sented an ultimatum to Chan­
cellor II. Edwin Young, demand­
ing the removal of the Army 
Math Research Center on cam­
pus, by October 27th. 
The most unusual anti-war ac­tivity held in the Big 10 was at the University of Iowa. A mock was was held for 15 minutes, on the main lawn of the campus. Between 5,000 and 6,000 people took part in the various activities which included teach-ins and films and a rally where the war issues were debated. Counter­de~onstrators wearing red, wh1te, and blue arm bands, were present at the rally and circulat­ed through the crowd. 
Few incidents 
continued from p. 2 
Maryland Governor Marvin Mandel called ROO National Guardsmen to standby duty as a precautionary measure in Balti­more, where an estimated I 0,000 persons gathered for a downtown rally. Michigan Governor William G. Milliken placed 2,000 (;uardsmen on standby alert "for use if needed." 
The protest was the largest yet mounted in this country against U.S. involvement in Southeast Asia. It had the presti­gious support --including near­ly RO senators and congressmen. 
It was billed as a "moratorium on business as usual." But there was no shutdown of government operations in the nation's capi­tal, where comparatively few federal workers took the day off. And in thousands of com· munities the protest appeared to 
QJ!!!noticed. 
Little Billy announces his engagement to Carol J0 Cocoanut 

for a clarification of the rules activity at OSU was attributed governing their appearance. to the fact that a ten hour "I will require the attendance teach-in, with Rep. Allard K. of each and every defendant, Lowenstein and John Sack was each and every day of the trial," held last Monday. Hoffman said. 


'70Nova 


. . . More filling
T~1_s ~ot-too-small car 1s h1g enough for you and Nova comes one of two ways: Coupe or Sedan. your .tncn_ds:.An_d your luggage. . From there, your Chevrolet dealer can hl'l ou . Yet, thrs s.t~c not-_too-large car rs small enough put togethcr any kind of Nova you want p y tor a hudgl't. E\ en a trugal one. . . But plan 011 more friends. · 
. You have t~r:e standard en~r.ne Four. •M@.[.)nr
chorccs. And_ fewer fuel stops. Srx. Or VX. DLpl nds on how thrrtty you want to be. Puttrng you lirst, keeps us lirst. On The Move. 
PAGE 12 THE OBSERJJ£R. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1969 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------~--
Gatewood: pressure and a hot pace 
by Terry Shields 
The former two men are Observer Sports writer Notre Dame single season and career record holders. Now for
In 1964 Jack Snow caught 60 ail of you "arts and letterspasses for 1114 yards and 9 
jocks" who aren't very
touchdowns. In a career span­proficient at math, this meansning the years 1 966-6 8 Jim Sey­that if Mr. Gatewood continuesmour had 138 pass receptions, to haul in the tosses of Joegained 2113 yards and scored 16 Theisman at this same rate (6six-pointers. After four games catches and 1 touchdown perTom Gatewood has grabbed 24 game), he will overtake both ofpasses, gained 372 yards and has the leaders.
crossed the goal line 4 times. 

Ruggers are defeated 
Palmer College of Davenport, Dave Fleming, Charlie Blum, Iowa, handed the Notre Dame Chuck Petrowski, Bob Fries, Bill rugby club their first loss of the Berry, and Tom Hurlehy turned season last Saturday, 13-0, in a in solid performances in a losing match played before a large Irish effort. crowd in Davenport. The ND Chuck Leggero scored his se­"B" team salvaged a split of the cond "try" in as many games to day's activities by topping St. lead the "B" team's offense and Ambrose College of Davenport, take over the "B" scoring lead 6-0, notching their 46th win in with six points. their last 48 outings over a four The Irish ruggers play their year period. first home game of the season 
Palmer and the Fighting Irish this Saturday against the Cleve-were evenly matched but the land Rugby Club. The "A" game well coached Palmer squad took will be played at II o'clock, ad_vantage of ~ostly N?tre Dame preceded by a "B" game at 9:30, m1stakes to gam the tnumph. behind the Stepan Center. 
************************************ 

JIM MURRAY 
The Jim Murray story 
© 1969, Lts Angele1. Times 
I was born and raised in Hartford, Conn., a nice clean little city on the shores of the Connecticut River--except on those occasions when the river forgets its manners and floods all over the eastern section of 
the city. I will be remembered there--if at all--as one of the outstanding nonathletes of my time. I was a scatter-armed outfielder, a choke hitter (not the bat, my throat), a lip fighter and a lonesome end-lonesome because I drifted AWAY from the play. If there was one thing I hated worse than tackling anybody, it was being tackled by anybody. 

I do hold the listed world's record for the 47\4 yard run, an unusual, non-Olympic event which happens to be the exact distance between the telephone pole in front of my childhood home in West Hartford and the one on the corner of Park Road. I set the record under pressure from my kid sister who was trying to get back a letter from her boy friend I had found. There was a following wind but allowable. 
The beauty of this particular course was that you also had to stop quick because when you hit the imaginary tape you went right out into Park Road where you might hit an unimaginary trolley. If you did, you were disqualified. Also hospitalized. 
I played baseball with a deadly weapon called a "dime rocket" which was a tape-wrapped spheroid about the density and weight of a duckpin bowling ball. We played with it so we could weed out the little kids-not by the ones who couldn't hit it, but the ones who couldn't lift it. 
I played freshman baseball at Trinity College in Hartford where I 
graduated anyway. I was an uncertain outfielder and a craven hitter, 
but I was the MOST VALUABLE PLAYER on the pin-ball team at 
the college tavern because I set the school record for getting the 
"tilt" sign off without putting another dime in. 
I never wrote sports until I was well into my second childhood which is just the right time for it. The first five years of my career I whiled away on police beats and rewrite in the company of assorted murderers, wife-beaters, divorcees, politicians and movie stars. It was ideal training for sports. 
I spent 12 years on Time magazine, helped to found Sports Illustrated and later served as West Coast editor. I hate to brag, but I notice where the Rams, the Dodgers, the Giants and smog all came to the West Coast after I did. 

I did a little sports work in my early days on The Register, a daily in New Haven where the sports editor, Dan Mulvey, was a newspaperman's newspaperman. This means he didn't care who did · his work for him. 1 worked on the Los Angeles Examiner when 1 came West in 1944. Time magazine hired me away from them in 1948. There is no record The Examiner put up much of a fight. 
All I know about football is some expert told me years ago to 
"watch the guards," and I've been doing it ever since. I haven't seen 
a touchdown in years--since a guard fell on a fumble at Notre 
Dame. As far as I was concerned, the Galloping Ghost was just that. 
But I am a qualified sports expert in one major regard: 1 am an opinionated jerk. You show the white feather in this business, like see two sides to a story, and you're through. 1 can promise you one thing. That'll never happen to me. See you around. 
So what do all of these record setting possibilities mean to the bright new star of the Fighting Irish? "I don't think about re­cords, they mean nothing. I just catch as many as the coach calls for. Look, if you start droppin' them you'll get benched and people forget about you in no time." So if Gatewood keeps of the student body). 
Tom has no definite predic­tions for the remainder of the season. Although he did say, "I like 9-1, that sounds real good, but you can't say for sure." 
"Fleetwood" holds Jim Brown as his hero simply be­cause "be was the greatest foot­
ball player I have ever seen." As most of you know Jim Brown broke quite a few records him­self, and pressure couldn't bother him. Tom Gatewood has the same type of attitude, for the sake of the Irish fans (yes, and Ara, too) maybe his results will correspond. 
pulling in the bombs, the pres­sure concerning records won't botherhim. "Theonly pressure I'll worry about then is the kind that the defensive backs will put on me. It seems that every team we play has some defensive backs who were high school all­-America." 
As Tom goes on one finds that this factor is one of the reasons why he chose Notre Dame over 125 other schools. The other places he seriously considered were Penn State and UCLA, but he finally decided on ND. "I picked this school mainly for academic reasons, but also because the alumni could be very influential in my future. Of course this is also the toughest football in the country." 
Gatewood doesn't really attri­bute anything in particular for his current success. He prefers to run his patterns from a split position rather than in tight as he did in high school (Baltimore City College High). He does not have a preference, however, con­cerning what type of pattern he runs. "It depends on the situa­tion," as he puts it. He has decent size for a college end at 6'2" and 203 lbs. and he has 

After dazzlina Michitlan State and Army, Tom Gatewood (abo•e)
adequate but not "sprinter pits his moves against number three Southern Cal this Saturday. 

speed." (Some people doubt this because he js quite often refer­Joe Cottrel red to as "Fleetwood" by some
H d b t • • .,
0 W 0 y0 U e a mag1 C 1 a n S! 

NEW YORK (UPI) _ A wild throw by relief pitcher Pete Richert in the I Oth inning, after Ron Swoboda saved the game with a diving catch in the ninth, gave the New York Mets an exciting 2-1 victory Wednesday over the Baltimore Orioles and a 3-1 lead in the World Series. Richert fielded J .C. Martin's fine bunt along the right side with runners on first and second and none out and made a bad throw to first that enabled pinch runner Rod Gaspar to score from second base. Gaspar ran for Jerry Grote, who got a double when left fielder Don Buford lost his fly ball in the sun, and AI Weis was intentionally walked to bring up Martin, who batted for winning pitcher Tom Seaver. The Mets, who were I 00-1 underdogs at the start of the season, now can win their first World Series at home Thursday when they send Jerry Koosman, who won the second game, against Dave McNally. Seaver, regaining his form af­ter two shaky starts, had a three hit shutout going into the ninth inning. Seaver hadn't allowed a hit since the third when Oriole manager Earl Weaver became the first manager in 34 years to get tossed out of a series game. Seaver was trying to protect a 1-0 lead on Donn Clendenon's second inning homer but Frank 
Robinson and Boog Powell singled with one out in the ninth. 
Righthanded Brooks Robin­son then hit an "opposite field" drive to right center that looked like it could go through for a two run double to put the Ori­
ales ahead. But Swoboda, an erratic outfielder who often makes the difficult plays and boots the easy ones, ran to his right and made a diving catch for the second out of the inning. Frank Robinson easily scored from third on the sacrifice fly to tie the game 1-1 although the Mets protested in vain that Rob­inson had left third base before Swoboda caught the ball. Ellie Hendricks, who missed a homer by a few feet on a line drive down the left field line, then lined out to Swoboda to end the inning. Both teams then had excellent chances as pinch hitter Art Shamsky grounded out with two on and two out in the last of the ninth and Don Buford flied out and Paul Blair struck out with two on in the top of the I Oth. In the last of the 1Oth, Grote led off with a fly to short left field. But in the treacherous late afternoon sun, it's difficult to pick up the ball and Buford first took a step back. He quickly realized his mis­take but he had lost his jump in that split second and when he came dashing in, the ball fell among him, Blair in the center and shortstop Mark Belanger, who was actually closest to the ball by the time it fell in. Weis, a .215 regular season hitter who 'tad two hits in the game-although one was a ques­tionabie one which Brooks Rob­
inson bobbled at third--and four h"t · th · h
J s m e senes, was t e next hitter against the right handed
1· D. k H 
re 1ever IC aU.
M G
But anager il Hodges let Weis bat and with first base open, he was walked on four 
pitches. Seaver was the next batter and Hodges only wanted a bunt to move the runners along. But Hodges had decided that Seaver was losing his stuff and was coming out of the game regardless of whether he hit-and so he sent Martin, a lefthanded utility catcher to the plate. 
Coach George Bamberger then went out and taik'ed to Hall a while before calling in a left­handed pitcher, Richert. Billy Hunter was running the team in Weaver's absence although Weav­er was probably relaying mes­sages from the clubhouse. 
Martin laid down the perfect bunt in the situation, about I 5 to 20 feet from home plate along the grass on the right side. There was no chance for a play at third and it was obvious that Martin, a slow runner, had a chance to beat it out. Richert fielded the ball and fired to second baseman Dave Johnson, who was covering first. 
But the bad throw hit Martin on the wrist and bounded away from Johnson and rolled to a stop between first and second. Since Johnson was covering first, there was no Oriole near the ball and Gasparscored easily. 



