
/ 


race 
by Glen Cono 
ON THE INSIDE: 
-The OBSERVER endorsement for Student Body President, p. 4. -Underground rag, Uranus, 
distributed on campus, p. 3. -Campus editor Ted Price begins a 
series  on  Notre  Dame's  young  
marrieds, p. 5.  
-Sports  editor  Terry  O'Neil  

recounts a tragic day in Carbondale, p. 8. 
The second straw poll taken by the OBSERVER, shows that the race has narrowed considerably. John Mroz is still the front runner, but the percentage gap between him and Phil McKenna has shrunken from eight points to five. The number of votes for the other candidates has gone down, as well as those un­decided. 
As before the votes were extrapolated so as to project a better picture of the race campus wide. 
John Mroz 
39.7% Phil McKenna 34.5% Mike Kendall 3.3% Otl)ers 3.6% Undecided 19.9% 
In the previous poll, Mroz captured sixteen out of twenty halls polled. In this poll, he took thirteen. Mroz dropped sharply in two halls, Alumni, and Zahm. He picked up in B_P., Howard, and Keenan. McKenna dropped in Dillon, and 
Fourcandidates debate 1• SSues 
by Chuck Jackson 
flail autonomy, co-education, and minority enrollment, and the concept of community were the topics most touched upon yesterday as four major SBJ> hope­fuls aired their views and explained their platforms in the engineering auditorium. 
Phil McKenna, Kevin SP1ith, Mike Ken­dall, and John Mroz all participated in a platform discussion, an idea originated by Kendall several days ago_ Each candidate was given five minutes for opening rc­makrs, was asked three questions from the audience, and was allotted four min­utes for closing remarks_ 
C.mdidatc Kevin Smith was the first to spea, in the half-filled auditorium. lie said the duty of the Student body pr~~ sidcr.t is to "come down to students. Student (;ovcrnmcnt, he stated, should keep in touch with other lesser campus govl nmcnts as well as maintaining clo~c association with students to know therr wan~s. Smith also saw lack of participa­tion as a problem at this univcrsit~, saying "So many things on campus arc m 
need of participation. Too many people arc sit ling hack and arc just going to complain." Smith is in favor of co-f"ducation experimentation, rather than outright change from an all-male 
atmosphere. 
John Mroz explained that his campaign 
was based on a community con.;ept in­
volving both "concern'. and "involve­
ment", these in relation to student indif­
ference. "What we arc going to have to 
have is for people at Notre Dame to start 
to take themselves more seriously," he 
said. 
On academic reform, Mroz felt that 
Howard. He picked up in Alumni, Farley, 
Walsh, and Zahm. 
McKenna's gain was the greatest in 
Alumni. Previously he had 1.4% of the 
total campus vote. Alumni completly 
reversed itself, giving 5.1% ot total cam­
pus vote to McKenna_ Mroz's greatest 
gain was in Howard, where he picked up a 
full percentage point over his previous 
1.0% 
As before Brecn-Phillips is greatest bastion of strength. Mroz has 4.4% of the total campus vote in B.P. compared to McKenna's total of zero. 
Although McKenna dropped slightly there, Morrissey is still his greatest source of strength, contributing 6.7% of total campus vote. 
The actual votes were as follows; 
John Mroz 
152 Phil McKenna 
129 
Mike Kendall 
16 Others 
12 Undecided 
67 
this is a large part of the SBP's duties and it is necessary "to start seeing how all the students feel." Asked for his views on coeducation, he replied he was in favor of a "coed week" much like one recently staged at Princeton. In closing, he stated it is important for those in student government "to know what is best for Notre Dame .. _ It's not enough to gesture, we have to get down and act." 
Explaining the purpose of Student government, Phil McKenna stated its duties arc to develop the university and the individual within the university. A student concern with the office of Stu­dent Body President, together with closer student-faculty relations "is geared toward individual development" at this university, according to McKenna. 
McKenna favored increased Black scholarships and more black culture courses for the Black man at this univer­sity. In his concept of attainment of a community, he put forth four factors: 
·oncern for the development of the in­dividual, emphasis on hall life, a function­ing of this school as a "Christian Univer­sity", and adaiding social minorities. He said it is necessary "to strive for what community entails and we will then realize individual development." Asked about his advocating the re­placement of the SLC with a university senate, McKenna replied the senate would be the "appropriate structure" to realize community. In his closing statements, he emphasized the importance of com­munity as a goal in which all issues could fit. Mike Kendall's beginning statements concerned basic and redical change at 
The total number of those interviewed was 376. 
When the voting is broken down, class by class, the pattern becomes clear. Mroz's greatest strength is in the two lower classes. He takes a majority of the freshmen class, and above forty percent of the sophomores. McKenna on the other hand, runs his best in the two upper classes; He takes a majority of the seniors, and nearly forty percent of the juniors. 
McKenna's greatest gains came from among the seniors. In the last poll, he was about dead even with Mroz, garnering barely thirty percent of the vote. He now has 51.6% 
Mroz gained substantially among the freshmen. Previously he had about 38% of their vote. Now though he holds down 52.3% of the freshmen. 
SENIORS John Mroz 25.8% Phil McKenna 51.6% Others 11.6% Undecided 11.0% 
McKenna has built up his previous lead among the juniors, primarily at the ex­pense of the lesser candidates. 
JUNIORS 
John Mroz Phil McKenna Others Undecided  28.5% 38.7% 13.6% 18.9%  
Mroz  gained  a  full  ten  percentage  

points among the sophomores, while the votes for the lesser candidates and those undecided dropped sharply. 
SOPHOMORES John Mroz 41.7% Phil McKenna 29.6% 
Before freshmen votes are taken into account, Mroz has approximately thirty two percent of the votes, while McKenna has nearly 39% As in the previous poll, Mroz's margin is provided by the fresh­men. 
FRESHMEN 
John Mroz Phil McKenna Others Undecided  52.3% 26.2% 2.9% 18.6%  
In  the  poll  run  Friday,  it  was noted  

that primary emphasis should be placed on the forty percent of freshmen that were undecided. This number has been cut in half, with the large majority going to John Mroz. The same, of course was true in the Senior class. The number of undecidcds is less than half of what it was, most of those in favor of McKenna. 
Since the spread between the two men is only five per cent, and nearly a fifth of the student body has not decided between the two, the race at this point may be called nearly a tossup. Two factors that also must be taken into account, are that off-campus students and members of St. Joc and Moreau halls were not included in the poll. 
The past several days has not produced a surge for either candidate. There has been merely a solidfying or each man's greatest sources of strength, with the lesser candidates dropping off sharply. If neither candidate takes a majority, a run-off election will be held between the top two candidates. However undoubted­ly most of those undecided will make up their minds between now and Wednesday. 
thisunivcrsity. Because he saw so many needed changes, he said it was necessary in his campaign to stress what he called "priorities," or the most basic issues. "I think it is ludicrous to talk about change and not to do anything about it." 
He felt co-education necessary saying "It's time this university became co-ed." On the possibility of a residential univer­sity, he said he had to "reject" the idea, citing the conditions of present off-campus housing, and the fact that Notre Dame has no housing director. 
On the subject of minorities, Kendall stated that more blacks should be 
---__J---.
-
brought in, and that he was in favor of .~___.....--­lowering admission standards in order to 
This is the Austin Carr who performed for ND in the first half
admit the minority student, with the 
stipulation there be some kind of summer Saturday. pursued by referee George Allen and Frank Lukacs. To program to tutor student before they see how Carr finished the afternoon, turn to page eight. actually arrived on campus. 
-Observer sports photo by BOB HARTMAN 
PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER MONDAY. MARCH 10,1989 
Kendall suggests new position 
Kendall referred to the state­
Student Body Presidential ity enrollment. Referring speci­
THE WORLD. TODAY
ment in the HPC's Hall Ufe
hopeful Mike Kendall has an­fically to black enrollment 
Report saying that the success of -.
nounced that he would establish Kendall said, "The Afr; 
hall community depends on the
the office of "Student Advo­American Society would he an 
principle that "rules never be
cate" if elected SBP. The office excellent organization through 
imposed from an outside force." 
would be filled by the Student which this (the increase of Black Egyptian chief of staff killed
He stated the SLC should give 
Life Commissioner. enrollment) can he accom­the policy for student life, for CAIRO (UPI) -The Egyptian chief of staff, Gen. Abdel Moneim
Kendall stated that "the pur­plished. Only Blacks can fully both on and off campus stu­Riad was fatally wounded yesterday during an Arab-Israeli artillery
pose of the Advocate will be to understand the Black problem 
provide students with informa­and only they can interest other dents. "The hall," he said, duel across the Suez Canal, it was officially announced here. "should be free to build its Riad was second in command of Egypt's armed forces and Egypt's
tion about anything from grade Blacks in coming to Notre 
community within these guide­
top military strategist. 
changes to what the Student Dame." 
lines but not free to disregard or It was not immediately announced at which location along the
Union is doing." Kendall added that he would overrule them in any way." waterway Riad was hit. Israel and Egypt each accused the other of
The candidate added that the like to see black enrollment in­The candidate cited as an ex­provoking a second straight day of cross canal bombardments that
office would "provide the stu­creased to "around ten or eleven ample the parietal hours resolu­reportedly raged along a 120 mile stretch from Kantara in the
dents with a place to take any percent." 
tion. Kendall stated that no hall northern canal segment to Port Suez at its southern terminus.
complaints about student life." In a written statement last should have the right to extend Riad was appointed chief of staff in a major overhaul of Egypt'sThe office, if unable to help the night, SBP hopeful Mike Kendall 
the hours as given in the resolu­
military command following the disastrous Arab defeat at the handsstudent itself, would aid the outlined his opposition to the 
student in setting up an appoint­Hall Presidents' Council's "con­tion, nor "to say that the hall of the Israelis in the June, 1967, war. ment with the proper person. cept of autonomy." 
will have no parietal hours at During the six day war, Riad commanded the Joint Egyptian all." 
Jordanian Command set up shortly before war broke out. Gen. Riad trained as an antiaircraft gunner with the British forces Kendall say the "key role" of 
the proposed office as keeping Summer sports camp announced; during World War II, but got most of his later training from the"student government from turn­ing professional as it has in the Russians.
To be conducted by NO coaches
past." 
In an additional statement, A summer sports camp, the Notre Dame coaching staff, Apolio 9 takes seventh day rest Kendall said that "he would assisted by University athletes,
housed in the University of SPACE CENTER, Houston (UPI) -The Apollo 9 astronauts,
will include football, basketball,
definitely work for an increased Notre Dame's $8.6 million sleeping so soundly they missed their first wake up call, spent a
minority enrollment at Notre tennis, baseball, track,
Athletic-Convocation Center and relatively leisurely seventh day in space yesterday, taking pictures
swimming, wrestling, golf,
Dame." featuring instruction by the like tourists and practicing moon landing navigation. 
"I am not speaking only of weight-lifting, fencing, and
University's coaching staff, was James A. McDivitt, David Scott and Russell Schweickart were
Blacks, but of all minority hockey.
announced today by Dominick relaxed and happy and their work periods were punctuated by easy 
Lynn Haglund, a former Miss
groups," Kendall stated. "You 
J. Napolitano, associate 
banter with ground controllers. 
Indiana who holds gold medals
cannot have a real community professor of physical education At one point a flight surgeon radioed up to Scott that the
in both United States and
without including these groups." 
and camp director. 
astronaut had successfully fixed a broken sensor to monitor his
Canadian competition, will teach
He commented that the mi­Open to boys form 8 to 16, heartbeat and Scott shot back: "Dr. Scott thanks you. I've been
figure skating during the camp.
nority groups on campus should the camp will hold four looking for a new job."
She and other professional
be used in the increasing minor-
two-week sessions between June 
skaters will teach both figure
9 and Aug. 2. Fees will be $1 25 
and free-style skating, and up to
Foreign Car Service 
per two-week session for 
I 0 hours of ice time will be
and Parts ... 
non-boarders and $200 for 
available each day to students.
For All Makes and Models. .. 
boarders, who will live in Notre 
This section of the summer
IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 
Dame dormitories. 
camp will be open to girls as well
2416MISHAWAWKA AVE_ 
Instruction by members of 
as boys. 
STEPAN CENTER 
Anyone interested in the
Dance Spectacular 
•••••• DIRECT FROM ENGLAND •••••• THE 
Draft Counseling 
Training Session 
SPENCER DAVIS GROUP 
"Gimme Some Lovin"-"Somebody Help Me"-"I'm A Man" 
March 14-16
PLUS THE CAMBRIDGE FIVE Call 1768 
WEDNESDAY MARCH 12, 1969 
7:30 to 11 :OOPM Adm. $2.50 
1Jt1ljUt11"" C6t'J.tl""lJV 
Still Sells Europe's Finest Automobiles 

see Jaguar George at: 
PEPPER'S IMPORTED CARS 
3105 W. Sample Street 
South Bend, Indiana 46619 
phone 289-7788 
Ground communicator Stuart Roosa, also an astronaut, plunged into the banter: "The surgeons say they'll put you to work. I can just sec the headlines now: 'Scott Quitting Space Program'." On the ground, their wives and children attended church to pray for safe conclusion of the I 0 day earth orbiting mission scheduled to end Thursday with splashdown in the Atlantic about 800 miles East of Bermuda. 
Battles rage on two fronts near Saigon 
SAIGON (UPI) U.S. forces trying to break the back of the new Commu_nist offen_sive battled North Vietnamese and Viet Cong troo~s m heavy ftghting on two fronts ncar Saigon yesterday. U.S. BS 2 Jets saturated the jungles around the city with tons of bombs. 
Elements of the lst Brigade, ist U.S. Air Cavalry Division fought a three hour battle with more than 100 North Vietnamese regulars in an area about 50 miles northwest of Saigon. 
U.S. spokesmen said 14 Americans were killed and 31 wounded against Communist losses of 34 dead in the battle that ended about 6a.m. 
Nine members of a U.S. lst Infantry Division unit were killed and at least II wounded in another predawn fight 12 miles southeast of 
Saigon in a marshy area east of Nha Be, American headquarters said. There was no report on Communist casualties. 
Nixon holds ABM meeting in Florida 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. (UPI) -President Nixon, nearing a 
personal decision on deployment of the Antiballistic Missile System 
(ABM), held an unusual meeting yesterday on the problem with key 
White House aides. 
The Chief Executive discussed his conclusions on the controversial 
Sentinel Defense System for two hours with staff members at his 
lush beachfront villa. 
~aking up the sunshine under tropical blue skies and gently ­
wavmg palm trees, Nixon also studied papers flown in from 
Washington which apparently included a report from Secretary of• 
State William P. Rogers on his Saturday talks with Soviet Ambas­
sador Anatoly F. Dobrynin. 
The Florida White House had no immediate comment other than 
to point to the Rusk Dobrynin two hour meeting Saturday. 
Nixon outlined the possibility of a bilateral meeting with the 
Soviet Union when he met recently with European leaders. He 
sought their approval of a summit session, and apparently got it. 
Survey shows nuclear ratification near 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Ratification of the treaty to stop the 
spread of nuclear weapons is now all but assured, a United Press 
International survey showed yesterday. 
Senate leaders are not yet predicting victory for the treaty, which 
moves to the Senate floor Monday for at least a week of debate. 
There is just enough opposition and fence sitting to cause them 
worry. 
But the UPI poll, conducted by telephone at the end of last week, 
turned up only six sure votes against the treaty. Sixty-two senators, 
only five short of the two thirds majority needed to approve treaties, 
said they were for it or leaning toward ratification. 
A total of 87 senators responded to the UPI poll. Of these, 19 said 
they had not made up their mind how to vote. Many of the 
"undecideds" and the nonrespondcnts were virtually certain pros­
pects for the "yes" column. 
The Observer Is published daily during the college semester excep vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's
Special price, for students on the 
College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 
11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556.
poverty program, as most of us are. 
MONDAY, MARCH 10, 1969 
THE 0Bs.~l~R~~~~~R~----------------------------~P~M~E~3 

the editorial board this year. Scholastic There were thirteen members on , the board, all of the editors who Editor: are finally responsible for the There seem to be several false cdntcnt of the magazine, no 
stories circulating around the matter what year they arc in. 
campus concerning the origin We spent two full days inter-
and authorship of the viewing the announced candi-
S c h o I a s I i c 's e d ito ria I dates and deciding on the final 
endorsement of Phil McKenna endorsement. The decision was 
which appeared in the last Fri-not easy; we spent long hours 
day's issue of the magazine. discussing the strong and weak 
In order to explain the pro-points of all of the candidates. 
1..cdurcs that preceded this cdi-Nor was it unanimous, since our 
t )rial, I have to go back for a editorial board is probably a lot 
few lines to last year's SBP race. like the rest of the campus: a 
.)uring that campaign three sen-mixture of moderates and rad­
ior editors of the Scholastic (the icals, of conservatives and lib­
editor-in-chief, the managing erals. But 1 must say, in as 
editor, and the one associate unpolitical and dispassionate a 
editor) "somewhat hesitatingly" manner as possible, as a simple 
endorsed Pat Dowd in the pages statement of fact, if you will, 
of the magazine, without for-that Phil McKenna did receive a 
mally recognizing the opinions 
clear majority of the votes cast. 
of any of the other editors of Following the vote 1 asked 
the magazine. Since the over-Joel Garreau the executive 
whemling majority of the other editor, and Tom Henehan, an 
editors and staff members did 
associate editor, supporting 
not support Pat Dowd, the seven McKenna, to write the editorial 
J·unior editors released a state-
supporting McKenna. These two 
mcnt on that same day, cndors­
editors wrote the endorsement
ing the other maj·or candidate, 
themselves, and I printed it,
Richard Rossie. Subsequently, 
after consulting with the other
these editors were fired by the 
editors to make sure that it was
editor-in-chief, who was in turn 
a fair representation of the final
faced with the defection of most 
decision.
of the regular staff members, 
It is unfortunate that some
who refused to work on the 
people have tried so hard to
magazine until these editors 
discredit and distort the sig­
were reinstated. 
nificancc of the editorial, since I
In order to avoid another such 
am satisfied that it was in no
crisis this year and, more import-
way an extreme or peripheral
antly, in order to insure that the 
opinion, but rather, on the con-
opinions of all of the most im­
trary, an accurate reflection of 
portant members of the maga­
the combined opinion of the
zinc were formally represented, 
board, which, as I have said, IS 
we revised the composition of 
made up of widely divergent 
opinions and ideas. 
William Cullen Editor-in-chief 
Scholastic 
Samarcand 
Editor: 
Now that Shadowman, that 
mysterious quantity who is 
anchoring our executive branch 
with his inert mass until the 
American people decide to. elect 
a president, and his faithful 
Greck companion Spragncw 
have indicated their belief in 
what I have long suspected-that 
our beloved president is another 
chairman of the board, the great 
straight leader is no doubt 
heartened to note that, to usc a Joycean pun, the ayes of taxes ear open hum. 
Lest I call down a whole flock of Timmy Westmans on my position, gunning at me with poor grammar and parochial ideas of maturity, I ought to point out that I am not entirely out of sympathy with either Father llcsburgh or his latest term paper. lie is, whatever his
faults, neither unintelligent nor 
· 
vulgar, which is more than can be said for most SDS members. 1le• s done a good deal for Dome Tech and if it ever gets to he really good, a lot of the credit 
· h
will c his.
w
h i I c I ' m no I much concerned with Bob Narucki's right to become a spy, I believe
h 
t at confrontation politics is
f
sci -indulgent and has tended to deaden the average good American's sense of the moral 1ssucs involved in Vietnam, w:_:_:_clfa~_,__ ~n~ ~unan rights. It small minority of faculty and
deserves to be stopped, not st udcnts who had been
because it is objectively an a
infringement on the laws of a fornicating and who saw chance to seduce the rest of us
bad system, but because it docs into participating, at least
bad things to the pcop!c who vicariously in their voyeuristic1 start it and worse things to the life style. Fortunately they werepeople whll> arc called in to stop not allowed to go all the way.
it. But all in all, I question · But now as Mr. Wolfe has whether it was worth the indicated, an even greater crisis printing costs, this grand effort is at hand. The SLC decision on to keep John Mroz (who is parietal hours could very well nothing if not malleable) from lead to a "noticeable occurcncc showing dirty movies or David of fornication." To prevent this, Kahn and Kathy Cecil from there are two things which tearing down the Administration think should be done. First Building, mouldy brick by those of us at Notre Dame who mouldy brick. d ctest fornication must get And yet, there is that hope aroused and come together to that some Gaelic oil millionaire prevent the build-up of tension may pick up his Chicago Tribune over this matter. Second the and say: "Confiscated a dirty SLC at its next mL-eting should movie, did they? And then establish a Board for the threatened to throw the hippie Abolition of Libcrationism and beatniks out of school. Why I'll Lasciviousness. This board build them a dozen domes!" would be charged with locating Samarcand in South Bend, and in each dormitory a number of not an infidel in sight. Oh, wow! people to patrol the halls during parietal and
Dennis J. Gallagher hours to report 
fornication wherever they find
Ro'om for fornication 
it. Perhaps professional eunuchs Editor: could he employed here. This is I read with great satisfaction a drastic measure, hut the 
Chris Wolfe's column of March 5 "moral standing and public concerning the recent action of presentation of the University" the SLC. His comments relating arc at stake. to the problem of fornication Of course, there will be a few were particularly C\)gcnt and malcontents who will balk at the timely. It is my. belief that most implementation of the above of the campus disturbances of reforms. To them 1 say: if you the past few months arc the don't like it, go somewhere else. d irc~t _result of too much i No one told you before you formcalJOn by too many people. came here that you would be Consider the" so called allowed to fornicate and in the Pronography Conference and its University Communlty, there is attendant chaos. No doubt this no room for fornication. 
whole affair was the product of l)cvotedly yours in Notre Dame, the sick minds of very, very Shane Egan 
THE 1969 
• I: I
., 
NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL 
Friday and Saturday, March 14 and 15, 
1:30 and 7:30 p.m., Stepan Center 
I· 
). 
Judges: Clark Terry, Thad Jones, Dan Morgenstern, 
Ernie Willdns, Gary McFarland, Sonny Stiff 
The Best of the nation's college jazz groups compete for instrument prizes, cash awards, trophies, and a trip to the Newport Jazz festival, Newport, Rhode Island for the Best Overall Jazz Group. 
Tickets: Afternoon Sessions, $1.00, Evening Sessions, $3.00, All-Sessions Ticket, $4.50. Available in the Dining Halls, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. 


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
WILLIAM LUKING. Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
McKenna 
This year there are twelve students officially running for Student Body President, all duly registered, having dutifully returned petitions with the required number of signatures. 
All but about half of a dozen are campaigning on absurdity tickets or not campaigning at all. Perhaps they feel that Student Government is a game, and that accordingly it deserves some humor. 
Or perhaps they feel that to campaign for Student Body President is to campaign for nothing. Perhaps they feel that recent actions of Father Hesburgh and Father Joyce casts doubts on the effectiveness of students in influencing University policy. 
The OBSERVER has always felt that Student Government is more than a game, but especially now when the students can help direct and certainly influence the sometimes effective Student Life Council. Students are the primary force on this campus in effecting change and in the past several years they have made them. 
Last week the SLC approved two proposals dealing with hall life which arose from a study of hall life. One of the primary figures in the drafting of that report was Phil McKenna, the man the OBSERVER confidently and unreservedly endorses for Student Body President. 
Through his actions as Chairman of the Hall Presidents' Council McKenna has shown his willingness to undertake tasks important to the furtherance of student influence at the University. We are impressed with his eventual goal of the creation of a University Senate, including students, which would rule not only on student affairs but on the business of the entire University community. 
We are also encouraged by the fact that he sees the hall as the foundation upon which student life and participation in the University must be based. McKenna and his running mate Fred Dedrick are men of integrity, as their actions of the past have proven beyond a doubt. 
We feel that in this next year, in which there are sure to be more confrontations between students and administrators, we can find no better leader than Phil McKenna, who will not compromise his principles and who has courage enough to act on them. 
McKenna's foresight and ability to understand the thinking and the problems of all facets of the University, black and white, right and left, are his most impressive credentials and they arc the ones which earn him our endorsement. 
We also gave serious consideration to the programs and campaign of John Mroz. However we felt McKenna was more experienced in the actual politics of Student Government, while in the past Mroz has been involved in the Sophomore Literary Festival and the Academic Commission, supposedly non-political positions. 
We were also somewhat dismayed with the outcome of the recently aborted Pornography and Censorship Conference. Although he may not have been totally to blame, Mroz was certainly responsible for placing men who were apparently not fit in trusted postition. 
We were also intrigued by the divergent political 
philosophies of Mroz's campaign workers. They shine forth 
from every part of the political spectrum, which leads us 
to question how he can satisfy the left as well as the right. 
We endorse Phil McKenna, who has effectively furthered the concept of student power in the past, and who we are confident is the most able and willing to do so in the future as Student Body President. 
Mail-order SBP 
.........,......................... 
On a given hall bulletin-board, obscurrcd by the flashy, occasionally brilliant, political graffiti-i.e., "Mroz-Jones for community action", "McKenna-Dcdrick for an active conununity", "Watson speaks tonight", "Smith", "Bring back Messina", "Apt for Apt's sake", "Follow the band at 7:00', an anonymous "so's your mother", and a glossy illustration of an inspiring duo strolling across campus like a pair of political Gary Cooper's from High Noon-hidden far beneath are these handy little summer employment packets. 
It's all a racket, of course. You're supposed to scribble your name and address onto a tiny coupon, pop it into an envelope with a few rare coins, and mail it away forever to some national agency (isn't everything these days?) located around Denver (isn't everything these days?); which in' turn, generously rushed an elaborate cat!llog along your way, complete with summer job listings. Only the naive and witless arc ever gullible enough to fall for it. The exact same catalog, you see, sells for half the price in the bookstore, marked up 25%. 
I pulled my catalog out of the mail yesterday, and now its pages are darkly crinkled, having been frantically worked over by my nimble fingers in a frcnzious search for summer employment. For those of you who never sec beyond the Mroz ct allitcraturc, or who have relinquished their franchise (or ballclub), or who just don't give a damn, permit me to inform you of my findings. There is an ardent need this summer for~dude ranchers, smokejumpcrs, U.S. information propagandizers, Witchita linemen (Ara take note), • Chicago policemen (SDS take note), protestors, Nixon fans, ticket-splitters, muck-rakers, writers for Laugh-in or laughers for write ins, re-runners, Timberly Lake counselors (call Bill Luking for details) and one cute St. Mary's student (if she exists). 
I really think this outfit in Denver may be on to something. Probing the possibilities of expanding upon their set-up, my mind simply reels. Wouldn't it be so much simpler, if instead of all the political showmanship, chicanery (shades of Bill Buckley?) and outright stupidity (shades of Walter Lippmann?) associated with a student body presidential election, we had all the applicants send away coupons to a national agency or clearing house (No pun intended). All the key offices could be filled in such a manner. . 
The candidates would be classified according to past job performance and systematically assigned a suitable role in next year's student government. For example, take a look at a few of the bright eager faces who have dramatically leaped upon the political scene and caught the public's fancy in the gruelling race for SBP this year. 
One has been a capable heavy-machine operator for a large reputable concern the past couple years. Through his experience, he has unearthed a good deal of dirt, ·and remains a hit soiled because of it. 
Another has specialized in hotel (or hall) mismanagement, and whose idealism has infected a whole chain of hotels with an exaggerated sense of importance. Also he has displayed an expertise as a weather man, with his head lost somewhere among the clouds. 
A third has handled (and occasionally performed in) the spotlight for a circus sideshow, generally focusing in from the left. He has also appeared in a campus production of lfigh Noon. 
(;ranted, any decision distinguishing competence among these three heroes would perplex the most brilliant set of minds anywhere. 
And of course, there arc the others, whose backgrounds arc cloaked in obscurity, and who, to quote a phrase popularized by Mad Magazine consist of "the usual gang of idiots." I'm sure a top-notch agency, however, could come up with some appropriate appointments, suitable to everyone. 
The post of Student Unior; Director, would perhaps require more specialized talents-namely that r.e be a close friend of a machine operator, spotlight handler, or hotel manager. Anyone else's chances would be spoiled. 
But, all things considered, I think the fcasibilities of national agency affiliation with student government positions, should be enthusiastically pursued. Maybe the Student Life Council could adopt this type of scheme on an experimental basis for one semester. As I say "my mind simply reels." 
~-­
MONDAY,MARCH1~1009 
THE OBSERVER PAGE 5 

The marrieds, Part 1: 
by Ted Price, Campus Editor 
This is the first installment of a flve­(lart series on the married student at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
You don't want to get married before you graduate. Or do you? You've been told all your life I hat people don't marry until they arc "of age" and even though you may he of age under the law, you shouldn't take the plunge until you're out of school. 
AI least that's what you've been told. 
But people do gel married before they are finished school. All of us have friends who have decided not to wait. But probably after they arc married we don't get to talk to them the way we used to. They have their own home, and new responsibilities and they can't just drop over on the spur of the moment and rap like they did before. 
Which raises the first question: how arc they getting along? Is it really all that bad? These arc probably the first thoughts that come into your mind when you first sec your now-married buddy. 
Marriage is a big step. It's undoubtedly the biggest decision most of us will have to make in our lives. But at the same time we all know so little about it. Is it really true that if you marry young, you arc automatically doomed to nuptial hell, that your life is irreparably ruined? Or is it on the other hand a big huge party all your problems arc gone because now you have a partner to lean on? 
The answer of course lies somewhere between the two extremes. You have entered an entirely new phase of your life. Its very style has changed in a manner that you probably had not ex­pected. Both husband and wife must adjust to this different life style and must be ready to make constant readjustments later. But each will discover that most of the myths they believed as singles arc simply not true. 
Five O'Clock World 
Earlier, I alluded to some of the thought over the consequences rather inculturalions that society has force-fed thoroughly. They have been subjected to on the subject of young marriage: money, all the advice against marriage until after responsibility, parenthood and so forth. graduation. As a result, they arc more Because of these beliefs, we arc urged to ready to take on these predictions and slay single for a much longer period than more aware of the problems that they 
other peoples. What problems, uniq uc to face. our culture docs this bring to you 
But the manner in which they combat marrieds? 
\ 
\ I
\ \ 
r 
{ 
I 
/ 
Surprisingly enough, there is a sort of these problems may bring on a secondary self-fulfilling prophecy in reverse here. set of requirements they may not have When college students decide that they planned on at alL For example: John Doc wnat to get married, they have usually is a full time student at Notre Dame. lie is 21 years old, a senior. IIis wife Mary, 20, is a secretary downtown and must be to work at eight o'clock every morning. Since John's first class is not before 9:30 on any day but Thursday, he is usually still asleep when Mary leaves for work. For Mary, at 7:30 in the morning, mar· riage has not turned out to be the romantic idyll she had expected as a girL 
But John and Mary are very happy together. They have found it different from what they had expected, but they do love each other and it is, after all, only temporary. Things will be better after 
graduation,  when  John  begins  his job  
with Business, Inc.  
But  let's get  back  to  the  more  basic  

problems. Primary among these is, of course money. Two cannot live as cheap­ly as one. Two may be able to survive on what one lives on, but they will not be living. 
How do all the Johns and Marys make ends meet? Do they have to get deeply into debt? How deeply'! Or is it possiblt to get away almost scot-free? 
On a tangent with the money angle is the question of housing. John doesn't want to bring Mary into an old run down pla~.:c, but how much will a nice apart­ment cost them? Can they afford it? Even if they can, will they be able to find a place? 
There arc about 740 married Notre Dame students, including graduates and undergraduates. St. Mary's has 25. This means that between nine and ten percent of the total college community here is married. But they arc an invisible group. Their problems, and their joys, those which we singles arc most likely to share, are not really known. It is a subject we should all be interested in. Hopefully this series will satisfy that interest. 
Tomorrow: The Big One Money. /low do John and Mary make it financially? 

PAGE& . THE OBSERVER 
Uranus • distributed; attacks ND officials
IS 
The second issue of the annonymously edi~ed "underground" publicaho?, Uranus, was distributed m several halls on campus Saturday. The eight page mimeographed paper is a collection of the writings of an "underground" campus organization and is an obscene 
attack against the University, striking several University heads in particular. 
The mimeographed paper's assaults are aimed particularly at Fr. Hesburgh, Fr. Joyce, Fr. McGrath, Fr. Riehle, and Arthur Pears. 
In the feature article, entitled "Teddy," the paper attacks Fr. 
Hcsburgh for "the lack of good third ugliest building in the taste which Mr. Hesburgh world" and the Library, "a manifests in the manner in 
parody of the connection which he conducts his own between football and Xianity person." manifested in a phallic form." · 
The story directs its assault on 
Itcontinucs,"Thehuddlealso the new buildings on campus displays a mural, a wall length, which have been erected during mural depicting various during Hesburgh's "reign." The homosexual stances and lewd article calls O'Shaugncssy "the fetishes." 
Fr. Hesburgh is also accused 
of suppressing a student 
publication which was pointedly
Student urges •no' vote in election 
Dame finally had a student
Senior John C. McCoy has representative who was wi11ing
asked the student body in a to take the student's demands tomimeographed statement to vote the administration and fight for
'no' in the coming Student Body them."
Presidential election. McCoy sees such a write-in as 
The senior felt that Rossie's a move to "tum this election 
first success, the Student Life into a referendum for 
Council, was the key to the constitutional reform." This 
abolishment of the position of "restructuring" calls for the 
SBP. The establishment of the elimination of the post of 
SLC meant that the Student Student Body President. 
Body President was "no longer McCoy cited examples from the student representative to the his four years at Notre Dame to 
administration but rather one of prove the need for the radical eight such ambassadors." changing of student government. McCoy then suggested a Referring particularly to present possible restructurif!g of Student SBP Richard Rossie, McCoy Government. Referring to the stated that in Rossie, "Notre Student Senate, he said that it 
~n the campus Mon., Mar. 10 I 
Theatre tryouts for CAMELOT 
..:.nrollment steady  Theatre tryouts  
Total  enrollment  for  the  Notre  Dame-Saint  Mary's 
University  of  Notre  Dame's  

spring semester is 7,526, 
will be held at Room 232,virtually the same as the 1968 Moreau, at 7:00p.m.
spring semester, the University's J{egistrar's Office has reported. 
Science lecture 
The total includes 6,007 Dr. Bandaru S. Reddy, undergraduates, 1270 graduate Lobound Laboratory, will give a students, and 249 Law students. 
lecture entitled "Effects of The enrollement for the 1968 
Intestinal Microflora and Dietary spring semester was 7500. 
Substrates on the Pancreatic and Figures on the academic 
Mucosal Enzymes," in Room 

exchange program with Saint 123 Nieuwland at 4: 10 p.m.. Mary's College show that 348 
Public is invited. Saint Mary's women take 543 
Viscoe asticity 
Notre Dame courses and 367 Dr. G. Astarita, University of Notre Dame students take 566 Naples, will give the first of Saint Mary's courses. 
three Peter C. Reilly lectures entitled "Viscoe asticity:
Art jury 
Kinematics and Dynamics," in The Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, the Conftrence Room of the C.S.C., associate professor of art Radiation Laboratory, at 4: I0 

2. That's when· you ki'I'P :3. What's wrong with tht• bank? at Notre Dame and director of ,-LP:.::·m=··....:P....:u::.;b:..:l:::ic:..'=is....:i:c:ncc.v.::cit=e~d-=-.-­


your monl'y? 
the University's gallery, will serve on a three-man art jury in connection with the Tiffin, Ohio, Christian Arts Festival set for March 20-23. 
Film series 
As part of the Scottish Rite Film Series, SOUTH AND EAST AFRICA will be shown at 8:00 PM in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
2 for $1.00 
Mr. Quillin 511 Enderly Street Brownsburg, Indiana 
heterosexual. "One can only "should be elected as close to assume in this instance that it the start of the spring semester was a threat to those ideals as possible and would serve for which he intends to perpetuate
the spring and fall semesters." h · 
There would be an election in on t ts campus, namely homosexuality." the spring among members of "Teddy" concludes, "He (Fr.
the Senate to determine the 
Hesburgh) is wont to usc a long 
representatives to the SLC and cigarette holder which he fingers the stay Senators. as he sits with legs crossed and He finished by submitting five gestures with his pinky finger. a 
I'd only take it right Sonwtinws I put it in out again. For Sale: Ted Kennedy 
the flowN pot. 
bumper stickers 

............ ~ I'Eit$0N$
ESSY UMDEII 11 
PERSSO!'; CAN NOT •E 
(""l,A Woman•) ADMITTED 
-•h""''''> ·"-·DI"BON FIJ..\fs 
SECOND WEEK 
Feature Weekdays 6:45-9:20 Starts: Saturday 7:0Q .. 9:20 Sunday From I :Ofl 
gesture rather reminiscent of a 
new york pimp." 
1 n other articles, Uranus centers its attacks on campus demonstrations and police action regarding these demonstrations. Included were satirical articles filled with obscene language regarding the letter from President Nixon to Fr. Hesburgh. One story concerns the recent demonstrations at St. Mary's over the firing of teachers. 
The masthead of Uranus reads "the weekly planet," and rumor has it that future issues of this 
publication are promised. A statement on the last page of Saturday's issue read, "If you 
liked the taste of Uranus, come 
back next week for our special SUPER* DUPER anti-hcsburp issue!" 

major advantages in the ~------------------------------------------------------,
suggested restructuring: I) one election "will focus a great deal of attention on the candidates and their issues; 2) freshmen would have had one semester "to become acquainted with Notre Dame" before they would be required to make election day choices; 3) the candidates for the SLC will have had at least one semester to prove themselves to the students by their work in the Senate; 4) since the SLC representatives would also be Senators, "the representatives will be kept abreast of student opinion;" 5) 
1. Pipe hrokt>n? "finally, with the Senators No, I'm trying to fincl 
starting their terms in the spring, 
where I stashed some dough.the Union budget could be a·pprovcd in the spring rather than in the fall after many expenditures have already been made." 
This GTO Could Be Yours 
4. But that's what vou'm .'5. I think you'd be a lot bettl'r 
When You Drive Away In June! doing now. • off putting some of your 
dough into Living Insuram·t• 
Not quilt•. The lwauty from Etluitahk. It not only 
of my systPm is that giVPs you and tlw family 
I usuallv can't find you're going to have a whl're I put it. 
lifl'lime of prot!'dion, it also builds eash vahu·s you can ust' for t·mergt•neit-s, opportunitit•s, or t'VI'n reti rl'nwnt. 
I wontlt·r if it could ))(' with tlw fn·neh fril's? 
Where can you grab such a beauty? For dt•tails about ean•t•rs at Etl'litahlt·, st•t• your J>laet•ment Olfiel'r, or at Welter's Pontiac of course wrih': Limwl ~1. Stt•\'t•ns, \lanagl'r, Collq~t· Employnwnt. 
1900 LWE call 288-4831 seeDAN TUTKO (N.D. '67) 
THE tEounABLE 

for that special students rate! 
Tht' Ef(Hitahh• Life.· :\ssuranct· Socit"ty of the.· Unitt'd Stah·s 
new or used cars 
l2H5 An·nnt· of tlw Anwricas~ r\t·w York. :'\1•w York IOO]H From 3:30 to Closing A, l':tJiltll Ot>pur/rmily but>lurwr. Af!F J' E<tuitahlt• HJfil! 
ALLDAY SATURDAY 

Aversive conditioning method used by smoking clinic 
A Notre Dame student in the quadrangle rcadtcs for a smoke, but then pauses to put a small beige pill in his mouth. 
In a South Rend bar, a man rca~:hes in his shirt po~:kct for the familiar pa~:kagc, but stops and instead gives himself three 
minor clcctri~:al sho~:ks on the 
fingertips with asmall bla~:k box. 
In a small, stuffy room, a half-dozen persons smoke hurriedly for ten minutes, blowing dgarcUc smoke at ca~:h other. Their eyes water; most arc sweaty and some slightly 
aversive ~:onditioning is sucessful
Health Chapter and Head Start hold 
in ~:ausing an immediate reduc­
organizational meeting for project 
An organizational meeting for the latest projc~:t of the Notre Dame Mental Health Chapter and the South Bend Head Start l'rogra 111 was held last night in Nicuwland S~:ien~:c Hall. Rcprcst•ntativcs from the Head Start Program explained the project's attempt to wnfront the problems of inferior cdu~:ation, cxtrl'lllC poverty, and hrokl•n homes as they affect the younger dtildrcn of South Bend's poverty areas. 
Volunteers ~:omplcmcnt the rl·gular llcad Start Program who ~:an spend one hour a week working with ~:hildrcn from four 
Free U. offers 
22 courses 
Chairman Rick Libowitz has outlined 22 courses for the spring edition of the Free Uni­versity l'rogram. 
The topics for the courses range from religion to politics to music to psychology to mc~:han­ics. In the introduction to the course ~:atalogue, Libowitz says: "People ask, 'What is Free Uni­versity?' The answer may seem corny, but it's true-It's what­ever you want it to be." 
Most of the course leaders arc students, although a few arc profcs.o;ors. According to Libo­witz: "Free University is people who want to do something. Some have a talent they want to share others arc looking to spread a personal gospel--still others are trying to learn some­thing and invite people to join them in the quest." 
A sample of some of the courses: Mchcr Baba, a course trying to present an account of Raba's message of Love; Creative l'roblcm Solving; Politics, ("How to Win Power and Influence l'coplc"); Liberation Thought, to liberate the white middle class student from his racist environ­ment; Principles and Techniques of the Thcrapeutk Relationship; Sensitivity Group; Herman Hesse; Beginning Guitar; North Indian Music; Psychedelic Psychology. 
"As for the people who 'take' the courses," Libowitz says, "the reasons arc numerous; to learn, to mock, to be 'in', the 'why' is different for every per­son." 
USED CARS 
See-ED MORAN (N.D. '69) at John's Auto Sales 
702 Mishawaka phone: 25 5-9342 
Corner of Cedar & Mishawaka Ave's. 
ALSO: New Suzuki Bikes 
to five years old at three neighborhood Head Start Centers. Transportation is provided by the Notre Dame Mental Health Chapter. 
The majority of the young dtildren in the program ~:omc from fatherless or hrokcn homes. Volunteers become ~:o 111 panions to these small children and serve as examples in pl<t~:c of the fat hers who arc u nfort u natcly mrssrng from these povcrty-stri~:kcn family units. 
These young dddrcn arc often unfamiliar with a father's 

nauseous. of psy~:hology at Notre Dame. 
All of these persons have one "Among the reasons people thing in ~:ommon: they arc try­smoke,'.' .Sitid Whitman, "is be­ing to give up smoking. ~:ausc thc.y find pleasure in it. We 
The tct:hniquc they arc using try to disas.o;odatc pleasure from is ~:ailed "aversive mnditioning," smoking and associate discom­and is being used by Dr. Thoinas fort-foul-tasting pills, sho~:ks, 
L. Whitman, assistant professor nausea-with cigarettes." Dr. Whitman has found that 
rightful position of leadership and responsibility in the family unit. The volunteers offer companionship, example, and a ray of hope. Other volunteers help with the small, daily supplementary classes for underprivileged children which arc held at the Head Start 
~:enters. 
Sint:c the volunteers work with sociologists and tcat:hcrs of the Head Start Program, the project is an obvious opportunity for field work in so~:iology or psyt:hology. A nyonc interested in the project should ~:all 1843. 
BRITJIIN ON.II SHOESTRING. 
A Guide for 
Students Visiting Britain 
tion in smoking. The approach has on main defect, however. Subjects arc not consistent in the self-administration of pain. His current research with 
munts cigarettes smoked (in its­
elfoftcn an inhibiting factor) and a second group which takes the pill, known as Pronicotyl, when­ever they get the urge to smoke. The pill, which tastes like an unpleasant mixture of household spices, makes it difficult to fin­ish a cigarette. 
Whitman, a pack-a-day smoker until he quit two years ago, is cautiously optimistic about research on breaking the smoking habit. "We arc getting to the point where we arc isola­tipg some effective treatment techniques and it is now essenti­ally a matter of perfecting them," he said. 
~-~--------------------------. 
-. 
Juniors 
Ahsolutely last chance to have your picture taken for the I970 Dome_ Stop in Room 2-8 of the Student Center or call 8 I 29 TODAY to make your appointment. 
Yearboo" Staff 
Free! 40-page book jammed with ideas on how to live on a little and sec a lot. 
Where to find accommodations for as little as $2 a night, full English breakfast included. 
A week in London in a student hotel for $30 with tours of famous London sights and visits to Oxford and Stratford-upon-Avon. 
A week in an international stu­dent centre for'$25. Discotheques, folk singing and jazz clubs, coffeehouses, pubs, inns, 
boutiques. Where to get lunch or dinner for 
si. 
How to travel 15 days by train with unlimited mileage for only $35. London theatres, balcony seats 
S1.20-some gallery seats 90¢. Season ticket to 900 stately homes, castles and historic sights for S5. Travel-study programs, summer jobs, summer schools. 
Special student tour packages starting at $675, including air fare. Concerts, festivals, operas, sports. 
r------------------------------1 
To: British Travel, Box IJB, New York, N.Y. 10019. Please send me your free 40-page book: "A Guide for Students Visiting Britain" (llus 52-page color book: "Vacations in Britain." 
Name_ College__________ _ 
Address-------­._____Zip.____
City_ --State 
24 
--·-------~ 
._: ..... 
,,. ·'"'=':: 
_:~ ..: ...:..~ .
.. 
THE OBSERVER. 
MONDAY, MARCH 10, 1969 
-------·--------------­
What a way to end the season -Dee 
By TERRY O'NEIL putts and you can't win in Locke. "He loves to play the two minutes of the half before Carbondale. Observer Sports Editor basketball if you don't make game so much that he spends going to the bench. "I was just "We had hoped to get out of your free throws." Miami makl~ too much time at the gym and making a left to right move and here on an airplane, but the
C A R B 0 N D A L E, Ill. The 23 of 27 charily tosses overall not enough with the books. it snapped on me," said Carr. "It weather's too bad. What a way
I 96H-69 Notre Dame basketball and I 0 of their last 12. The Irish "While he was inelibiblc last feels the same as the first time, to end the season-a five-hour
team, which was born in great expectation and lived in great hit 16 of 27 from the gift line year, he almost transferred to except worse." train trip to Chicago and a bus 
and missed seven of their final Ohio. He was really depressed. I "Sure has been a great season ride to South Bend."
fruslralion, expired Saturday in eight. was recruiting in Vermont at the for injuries," said Dee. "This is a 
Southern Illinois University 3) "I think it's a pretty lime and I must have spent a team that really could have been NOTRE OAMEArena. 
PLAYER FG FT RB TP
well-known fact," said Miami fortune on phone calls, talking something. But they never had a
Miami of Ohio sounded the 
Arnzen 4-1 0 2-4 11 11
coach Tates Locke, "that when him into staying at Miami." chance to jell. Somebody was
death knell, 63-60, in an NCAA 
Murphy 4-9 3-4 6 11
(Bob) Whitmore gets the ball in Wren was lop scorer Saturday always out. We started II dif­
midcast regional contest. Irish Whitmore 5-15 3-6 6 13tight, Notre Dame is likely to with 16 points, including 12 of ferent ball players this season.
head coach Johnny Dec knew Meehan 1-2 0-0 2 2 why: "In basketball you have to score. He can beat you outsid~, 13 free throws. Had he gone to We finally decided on a lineup Carr 1-6 4-6 3 
6 too, but at least he has to work Ohio, the Irish probably would and this was only the fourth or O'Connell 4-6 0-1 2 8
do the three basics-handle the ball well, make your foul shots, for it out there and you can be going to Wisconsin for a game fifth game they started. They Sinnott 2-3 0-0 1 4 usually prevent him from getting with Purdue Thursday. just never had a chance to get Jones 1-5 3-5 3 5
and check out so your opponent second shot. We dcdidcd that it's over for Catlett 0-1 0-1 3 0
docsn''-get a second shot. We a But all Notre together. 
Pleick 0-0 0-0 0 0
if (Miami center Ray) Loucks Dame and sad that a 20-7 year "I feel especially bad for the
didn't do any of those very well 
TOTALS 22-57 16-27 34 60 
today." could block out Whitmore on had to finish in that setting. seniors, guys like Arnzen, Notre Dame's offensive board, You couldn't exactly call the Murphy and Whitmore. They MIAMI
Implicit in his statement was 
PLAYER FG FT RB TP
our forwards could do enough crowd of 9,600 apathetic, be­make a tremendous contribution
the fact that the Rcdskins did do 
Pryor 2-5 3-3 8 7
rebounding and scoring to keep cause there were three big cheers to our program at Notre Dame
those things well. Consider: 
a us close. It was our during the game--once and this is a tough way to have it
I) Although Miami held when a Loucks 3-8 3-5 14 9 slight (17-14) edge in turnovers, understanding that (Bob) group of SIU frat brothers held end." Lukacs 3-8 3-5 13 9 
the Ohiohans handled the ball Arnzen's ankle is still bothering up a sign saying, "Salukis all the Johnny Dec walked over to a Burkhart 2-4 3-4 1 7 him," said Locke. (Dec says the way in NIT"; once when a gang window. He pulled aside the Wren 2-6 12-13 2 16
very well late in the second half, 
ND captain has been operating curtain to reveal rainy, foggy
killing the clock and preserving of Murray Stale rooters (4,000 TOTALS 20-66 2~27 36 63 
at no more than 80 to 85 per of the 7,000 member studenttheir lead. Thus, Notre Dame, 
desperate for possession, was cent this season.) body were there) held up a sign forced to commit IS fouls in the Miami's game plan worked. reading, "Racers No. I"; and second half (compared to The corner men battled to a near once when the P.A. man an­Miami's eight). Which brings us standstill. Redskins Walt nounced that Southern Illinois' to: Williams and Glen Pryor NCAA champion gymnastics 
2) · One of Dec's favorite combined for 22 points and IS team would give a trampoline analogies is, "You can't win in rebounds. Notre Dame's Arnzen exhibition at halftime. golf if you don't make your and Dwight Murphy totalled 22 There were three bands­tallies and I 7 caroms. Marquette's, Southern Illinois' 
But Loucks, a 6-10, 270 and Murray's. ND had NBC, but pound musclcman, did more the N iclscn must have been than give Whitmore a physical atrocious. There were perhaps 
pounding. lie dropped in nine 75 Irish students on hand, one tallies and snared a game-high 14 cheerleader and, unforgivably, rebounds. That was a lift the no trainer to examine injured Rcdsk ins had not expected. I\ ustin Carr_ 
Dec might have included in In warm-up just prior to the his list of "basketball basics" second canto, Carr fractured a another Miami forte---disciplined bone in his left foot again--the 
shooting. After mounting a same bone he broke in practice seven-point lead midway Jan. 3. He played on it nearly through the second half, the Rcdskins stuck with ball control 
Swimmers
and did not abandon their stra­
tegy even when Notre Dame 
take first 
drew to within two at 2:11. 
Indccd, the second half shot 
in Detroit 
chart shows that Miami made 
only eight field goal attempts 
Notre Dame's swimmers pol­from outsidl' the lane after inter­
ished off their 19M> season this mission. 
weekend with a pleasing come 
The Redskins' poise, fine ball 
from bching win in the Motor 
handling and accurate free throw 
City Invitational meet at Det­shooting all were typified by the 
roit. 
play of 5-9 Mike Wren. 
The Irish took the final three 
Mike was a prep star in events of Saturday's competition Athens, Ohio, where his father is to gather up thirty valuable baseball coach at Ohio Univer­points and a 163-156 margin sity. He declined an athletic 
over runner-up Oakland. scholarship from the Bobcats 
Freshmen Prank Pahey low­and went to Miami without a 
ered his varsity 200 yard butter­grant. 
fly mark to 2:06.0 for Notre His play with the freshman 
Dame's first win of the meet. 
Disconsolate Austin Carr, a squad earned Mike tuition Fahey also placed fourth in the money, but last winter, in what 
I,650 yard freestyle in Friday
sneaker on his broken left 
should have been his sophomore night's competition.
foot, a loafer on his right 
year, he was scholastically 
Tom Roth contributed ano­
one, exits Southern Illinois ineligible 
ther Irish win in the 200 yardUniversity Arena. "He's a gym-rat," says coach 
breaststroke with a time of 
2:25.5. Notre Dame's other win came in the 400 yard freestyle relay. · 
Seniors Mike Davis, Vince Spohn, Mike O'Connor, and John May finished out their var­sity careers with a 3:24.2 time 
®~ 
-
® 
that iced the meet for Notre Dame. The Irish also got second 
place finished from Mike O'Connor in the 200 yard but terfly, John May in the I00 yard freestyle, and John Cox in the three meter diving. Tom Hock and Mike Davis tied for second 

layups in the 50 yard freestyle. Final scores for the meet were Notre D:.tllll' 163, Oakl:md 156,
Second-half shot chart shows only eight floor attempts 
Wayne State 12HY2, Albion 80,
from outside the lane for Miami's disciplined offense. 
and Cleveland State 30\l:z.
Circled shots were good. Numbers represent Redskin 
The Irish finished their dual players: 11-Lukacs, 15-William'ii, 21-Wren, 43-Pryor mel'! Sl'ason last Wl'ckend with a Loucks-53. 6-6 record. 



