ROTC critics: ''antithetical to university" 
by Ted Price 
As academia has reacted to the Vietnamese war, and concurrent social problems at home, segments of it have become increasingly vocal in their criticism of ROTC on college and university campuses. The New York Times last Saturday reported that, "each of the eight Ivy League schools some with a splash of publicity, others quietly and behind the scenes-is in one stage or another of abolishing academic credit for the 
ROTC program." 
Second in a three-part series 

The Times article later adds that although these institutions provide very few of the officers commissioned by ROTC, their actions have stimulated fear in the Pentagon of widespread discredidation. The way that such loss of credit usually evolves is for the institutions involved to vote to allow the contract with the government to run out, and stipulating that if a new one is negotiated, no provision for academic credit will be made. 
This is the situation at Harvard, where the Army's contract expires at the end of the current academic year, and those of the Navy and Air Force in June of 1970. 
llere at Notre Dame, there is a movement among the faculty to bring the matter before the Faculty Senate, the only group that can bring about such action. Although many professors' major quarrel with the program is wqat they judge to be substandard teaching methods, many du object to the content of the courses themselves. 
English Professor Peter Michelson charged that ROTC "Has a bad educative function." 
"It teaches militarism, which kills people," he added. "ROTC is political technology. To me the military is a bad political agent, it is seductive. We fall too easily into a pattern of military resolution of international conflict." 
Richard Bizot, also a professor of English, who was one of the key figures in the New Politics Party during the November elections, called ROTC "an apprenticeship, not an academic discipline." 
"If it is indeed an academic discipline, why then are there no graduate schools in it, or for that matter, no undergraduate degrees?" he asked. 
Bizot said that charges that the program's critics are unfamiliar with its curriculum are begging the question and called for ROTC to demonstrate that it is worthy of academic credit. (cont. on pg. 4) 

"Marching is the basic leadership program for every officer." 




Three halls consider black 
THE WORLD TODAY 

concentration proposals 
By Bill Holley 
first floor. About a dozen fresh­
approached me and I talked it

Campuses nationwide in turmoil Proposed concentrations of men will be added to the present
over with the presidents of 

black students in Dillon, Alumni 8 black residents and about 8
By United Press International Alumni, Dillon and 

and Walsh halls were . passed more will be brought in from
Walsh."Some blacks indicated in 
Student strikes hit the campuses of Columbia and Purdue 

lastlnight by the halls' councils. other halls. To make up for the
a survey that they will not move
universities yesterday. A Cornell University dean resigned in the 

Under the plan the majority of 8 from other halls 8 freshmen
into the concentrated areas how­
turbulent aftermath of the armed occupation of a campus building 

black students will be divided up will be dropped from Dillon's
ever most of the black students
by black students. 

among the three halls and given quota of 109 for next year. The
in eluding incoming freshmen
Negro and Puerto Rican youths locked gates-barring students and 

rooms in approximately the proposal in Walsh, which calls
will be located in the areas.
professors on a campus of City College of New York. A sit-in 

sa me area of the hall. for I 7 blacks to be located on
In the votes taken last night
plagued Villanova University. 

The new setup was accom­the first floor, passed by a mar­
Alumni re-approved its plans
Demonstrations, protests and wild debate echoed off the hallowed 

plished thru the efforts of Stu­gin of 8-4. However, in the hall
while Dillon unani.mousty passed 
walls of ivy at dozens of colleges across the nation. 

dent Body President Phil council, by the request of some
the proposal and Walsh passed it 
More than 7,000 .students, angered by a proposed tuition increase, 

McKenna, Art McFarland of the Walsh residents late last night,
by a wide margin
boycotted classes at Purdue in Lafayette, Ind. 

Afro American Society, Student the issue will be put to a hall 
The students Afro-American Society of Columbia University and V Fred and In votes taken last night

Body P Detrick, the referendum today to decide the 
white supporteJs from the radical Students for a Democratic Society 

hall presidents Tony Schoaro of Alumni re-approved its plans matter. (SDS) started what they dubbed a "mass evacuation" from campus. Alumni, Bill Picchioni of Dillon, while Dillon unanimously passed They asked all students to stay off the Morningside Heights the proposal and Walsh passed it Alumni passed the proposed
and llohn Dues of Walsh. 

campus in New York City to demonstrate backing for an all-Negro McKenna explained "Members by a wide margin. Dillon's plans plan a hall council meeting on board to control a black educational program and Negro admissions. of the Afro-American Society call for 28 balcks to live on the Tuesday night, however reaction There was no immediate indication how effective the boycott was. It in the hall caused the council to was to continue until noon Wednesday. reconsider the issue. The plan At Cornell, dean of the faculty Robert B. Miller announced he calls for 25 black students to live
SMC legislature tables had resigned as an "act of faith" with black students. He said he had on the second floor in Alumni put his job "on the line" in negotiations Sunday to end the armed next year. This will include 10 occupation bf Willard Straight llall. incoming freshmen, 7 black stu­
stay senator election 
dents already living in Alumni,
VC Ifill at least one in roclfet raid A meeting of the Saint Mary's less experienced Assembly 
and 8 upperclassmen brought in 
Student Legislature was called members who might, therefore, 
from outside the hall.
SAICON (UPI) -Communist gunners last night fired more than 
Monday night to elect three stay not strongly assert their posi­
20 rockets into an American camp northwest of Saigon, killing or 
senators. The Stay Senator bill, tions. The question was also
wounding an undetermined number of U.S. troops and setting afire 
introduced by Vice-President­raised as to why the present
about 2,000 gallons of petroleum. 
elect. Beth Driscoll, was passed senators could not simply seek
The U.S. command in Saigon said a barrage of "less than 25" 
last Wednesday by a vote of re-election by their constituents. 
rockets hit the camp just outside Tay Ninh city near the Cambodian 
I4-0-2. 
border and 60 miles from Saigon. Those who still ·maintained
The bill called for the election 
Officers at the base said at least one A rnerican was killed and I I support of the bill felt that
'of three members of the Legis­
wounded, but they added, "there arc other casualties." continuity is so necessary that it
lature, by the Legislature mem­
Informed military sources said the Communists have been moving should be formally established.
bers, to sit on the Student 
a record amount of goods down the llo Chi Minh trail which winds They felt that stay senators
Assembly, in addition to the 
from North Vietnam through Laos and into South Vietnam. would aid, rather than intimi­
elected Assembly members, for 
date, less experienced Assembly
the purpose of providing con­

Israelis bomb Egyptian DEW line members by their knowledge of
tinuity and availing the 
previous legislation, difficulties
Assembly of their previous
MIDEAST (UPI) -Israeli jet fighter bombers swept across the 
and procedures. The question of
experience. They would serve
border into Jordan yesterday and attacked Egypt's early warning 
the number of stay senators in
the student body in the position
radar defense system in the south and Arab guerrilla bases in the 
view of hall apportionment was

of senators-at-large. SBP Phil McKenna
north. The strikes coincided with an urgent warning from U.N. 
explained on the basis that these
Between Wednesday's meeting 
Secretary General Than! that a "virtual state of active war now 

senators would function in an Reasons for the dissatisfaction
and last night's, however, some
exists" in the Middle East. 

at-large capacity. The legislature, for the setup in Alumni was that
senators seemed to have recon­
An Israeli military spokesman in J erusalcm said the air strikes 

in electing stay senators, would it effects rooms on the coice
sidered their positions on the
"completely" destroyed both of Egypt's early warning stations 

use as criteria the effectiveness second floor and that there was
bill. The number of stay senators
protecting the Suez Canal against Israel. The two posts, at El Mazar 

and effort of these senators on some disapproval by section lea­
to be elected was questioned as
and Jebel Guwaissant, are both 28 miles inside Jordan along Israel's 
this year's board. 
ders of the way in which the
being too large in view of the
southern end below the Dead Sea. I 
meeting was held. In a letter the
Than!, in an urgent "special" report to the Security Council, said apportionment of senators on In view of the discussion and 
the Editor in todays
the U.N. cease-fire "has become almost totally ineffective" in the the hall basis. The number of because Senators wanted more 
OBSERVER Dan Oberst, Alum­
Suez Canal sector where Israeli and Egyptian forces have fought stay senators would equal the information on student opinion, 
ni Hall council member, states
almost daily for the past two weeks with weapons ranging from number of representatives elec­the election was tabled until 
dissatisfaction with the "speedy,
small arms to heavy mortars and artillery. ted from two of the halls. Wednesday night, at which time 



r 
I I 
WEDNESDAY,APRIL23,1969
PAGE 2 


THE OBSERUER. 



Ed. council warns: govern or be governed 
In  the  face  of  the  present  spokesmen identify "a vague but  ful and continue to fulfill their  new problems."  deal  with  disruptive  situations  
campus disorders throughout the  widespread  discontent  with the  responsibilities  to  the  nation's  "Recognizing  the  right  and  firmly  before  they  reach  the  
country,  the  leadership  of the  general quality  of life  together  students,  "Universities  are  hav­ even  the necessity for construc­ stage of police action." Special  
nation's colleges and universities  with "a young cult of irrational­ ing  to  divert their energies and  tive  dissent,"  these  spokesmen  punitive  legislation  from  any  
have  urged  the  nation's,  aca­ ity and incivility which severely  resources  from the central edu­ for  higher  education  said  that  level  of government  would  be  
demic  communities  to  "deal  strains  attempts  to  maintain  cational  tasks in  order  to  deal  "the  academic  community  has  "counterproductive."  
promptly and directly with dis- sensible  and  direct  communi­ with student unrest in its various  the  responsibility  to  deal  Student  and  faculty  groups  
ruptions"  while  warning  that  cation."  forms."  promptly and directly with dis­ must  intensify  their  efforts  to  
"violations of criminal law must  Yale President Kingman Brew- Affirming  their  belief  t.hat  ruptions. If universities will not  improve disciplinary procedures  
be dealt with through the ordi­ ster, Harvard head Nathan Pusey  higher education  can  overcome  govern  themselves, they will be  and formulate clear and realistic  
nary processes of the law."  and Notre Dame President Rev.  the  present  difficulties,  these  governed by others. This elemen­ codes for  dealing  with  miscon­ 
In  a  four  page  statement  Theodore  Hesburgh,CSC  were  educators  said  "Social  changes  tary  reality  is  increasingly  be­ duct,  violence,  and  disruption.  
issued by the American Council  among those to draft the report.  have  imposed  many  kinds  of  coming understood."  The  educator's  council  felt  
of Education representing some  Although  emphasizing  that  demands upon educational insti­ They  realize  that  in  their  that "Student and faculty whose  
l ,500  member institutions and  the great majority of American  tutions,  for  which  their  pro­ attempts  to  restate,  reaffirm,  consciences  demand  that  they  
associations,  the  university  campuses have remained peace- grams,  capabilities  and  their  and  vigorously  defend  the  aca­ express  dissent  through  law  

----------------=------------'----,findings are not always inade-demiC freedom of the university 
violation must be prepared to quate. There must be emphasis community, there must be accept the due process and the ~fr~sh approaches to old and greater emphasis on faculty and penalties of the Ia w. They
SENIOR WEEK 
student involvement. should not be encouraged to In response to campus dis­expect amnesty from the law. orders, "violations of criminal Nor should they expect amnesty
Blow Yourself
TICKET SALES NOW AT: 
laws must be dealt with through from the academic discipline the ordinary processes of the law which is the most effective and universities must attempt to sanction in disruptive incidents." 
To
UPPOSTER SIZE 
2ft. X 3ft. 
Send any Bkld and White or Color Photo 
from 21·4· 1 2~·.• to I 1 10. We will s.end you a 
THE BOOKSTORE 
Lord blasts gov't for racism 
~J~rE~. If. BLO.UP ... po<lod POP.ART 
Rev. Harvey Lord, chairman they have not been able to con­of the New Politics Party in trol an election witout 50 per­


GILBERTS 
valurfor •
"'' 
25 53 so 
cent of the population. Indiana, 3 X 4Ft. Blo-Up $7.50 
Indiana, last night discussed for example, is 24 percent black,racism in government before a 
Add SOc IO< post. & hdlq. EACH. No C.O.D. 
but only four of I00 state legis­small audience at the library
Add local Solot Ta• 
lators are balck.
Send O...,k or Moaey Onler lo: 
auditorium. PHOTO POSTER, l1c. 
$9.00 Regular 
He described the subtle racism "Government is systematical­
210 E. 23rd Sa., Drpl. M-67 
"brought about when little-­ly against the blacks in the ap­
New York, N.Y. IOOlU 
examined attitudes and habits of pointment of patronage offices." practice continue to keep whies He noted that most government ' in a superior position." appointments were made by 
whites to white friends. According to Lord, blacks can 
$7.50 Stockholders 
D.alo< loquirioo 1"'"'-1. 


BE A SWINGER ! Driving Range 
"trickle upward" into the higher 
classes of American society until
and own your own Polaroid ­
a certain point. This is the point Mike Cullen of Par 3 Golf Course at which they begin to threaten the established power structure. Milwaukee 14
It's easy, Just pick up your own 
"The game of politics is to keepMiniature Golf Course power where it is," he said. to speak tonight 
SCRIPTO Pen at the BOOKSTORE As an example, he cited the Michael Cullen, under indict­
Open -Day & Night 
problem of voter registration. 
ment by state and federal auth­
(weather permitting) 
"Where there is a low density of 
orities for taking part in and black voters in a community, 
organizing the "Milwaukee 14"
and receive a lucky number 
there will be a high rate of black conspiracy, will speak at II :45
Playland Golf Center 
voter registration and voting tonight in Dillon Chapel. On particiapation. Where there is a 
September 24, 1968, Cullen and from the cashier. 1700 Lincoln Way East high density of black voters, 
13 other men removed approxi­South Bend, Ind. there is a low rate of their mately I 0,000 1-A draft files The 3rd Drawing will be held Aprill8!! Phone 288-0033 registration and voting participa­from Milwaukee's Selective Ser­tion." 
vice boards and burned them with home-made napalm in a
He also cited the pattern of 
nearby square. Cullen, 26, cameelected officials as another evi­to the United States from Ire­dence of institutional racism. 
land in 1964. He is director of"Blacks should be able to con­Casa Maria House of Hospitalitytrol an election with 20 or 30 in Milwaukee and editor of The percent of the population. But 
Catholic Radical. 
OFFICIAL NOTICE 
Any Notre Dame Student Planning to 
Enroll in Professional Education Courses at 
St. Mary's College for the Fall Semester, 
1969-70, is Asked to Contact the Office of 
Teacher Preparation. This is Necessary Before 
Registration and Enrollment is Possible. 
Please Make This Contact By May 1. 
Eugene A. Campanale 
Associate Director 
Office of Teacher Preparation 
103 Memorial Library (foyer) 
283-7526 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556., 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL23, 1969 
SORRY [:36Y, CAN'T Hf LF you !\OW, I HAVE TO 'r(£E.P 
THt. CDUNIRY 
ff\0/f\ BUR Nl NG 
powN.' 

~~\_ 
---.:::... 

[..etters to the editor 
Moral Bankruptcy 
hlitor: 
In the debate on more sub­stantial matters of university policy and diredion one minor Notre Dame outrage has , un­fortunately, gone almost un­noticed. As you may recall this university did not cancel classes on the day of Dr. Martin Luther King's funeral a little more than a year ago. Life went on around here just like normal even as the nation paused to mourn the slain civil rights leader. Only the Stu­dent Senate really proposed any sort of tribute, passing a reso­lution .:alling on the Administra­tion to name one of the two new high-rise dorms after Dr. King. 
Two weeks ago the first anni­versary of the death of Martin Luther King was observed throughout the nation by ser­vices of commemoration and pledges by everyone up to but not including Richard Nixon that every effort would be made to eradi~.:ate racism from our society. Notre Dame's com­memoration took on something of a different nature. It was announced that the new dorm would be named after J. Peter Grace. 
Now I do not wish to get into a wmparison of Martin Luther King and J. Peter Gra~.:e. Let it suffice to say that one man gave his life in the cause of liberating an oppressed people while the other has devoted his life to raking in profits off Bolivian tin miners who earn the equivalent of two dollars a day. However, in what is undoubtedly the equalizing factor in the minds of the moral men who administer this university, the latter indi­vidual has given thousands of dollars to Notre Dame. 
Naming the dorm after Grace is, in my opinion, outrageous. There arc many more important things to bitch about around here, hut a certain degree of moral bankruptcy is revealed by such a ~.:om para tively in con­seq ucntial matter as naming a building after a rich alumnus as opposed to a slain civil rights leader. If this be the trend I expel.:! Fr. llesburgh to wm­memoratc the first anniversary of Los Angeles by announcing that the second dorm will be 
named in honor of Oliver C. Carmichael, Jr. Most sincerely, Joel Connelly 21 6 t:arley 
Black Reflection 
l·:ditor: 
The Alumni flail Council re­
cently approved a limited con­
centrati0n of Blads next year, 
in two adjoining scdions of the 
hall. Although I and all but one 
of my wlleagues voted for the 
resolution, its presentation left 
much to be desired. 
First, although this proposal had been made known to the hall president several days pre­vious, most of the council mem­bers were not informed of the motion until the meeting. Our votes were thus based on the rather brief discussion presented at the meeting. 

Secondly, to say that the presence of the Student Body President, and several members of the Afro-Ameri~.:an Society, during the roll-call vote was an influential factor in the voting, would be an understatement. A vote on so important an issue should have been based on re­flective consideration and not subject to momenta! pressure. 
Thirdly, because of the impor­tan~.:e of this resolution for the members of the hall. it should have been publicly presented. As it was, section leaders were not told about the proposal in time to solicit views from their consti­tuents. Since this plan involved bringing in of non-hall residents, in a special procedure; since it could involve the displacement of some hall members, it should have been open to general opin­ion. 
This is not to be understood as a wholesale rejection of the idea, but rather the manner in which it came about. That these rcflel.:lions ~.:o me now, indicates the speedy, superficial treatment of this proposal. I think a thor­ough, inclusive discussion of this relevant issue, with its import on the hall and university com­munity, would have been highly beneficial to those communities, rather than light treatment given the bill last Monday. 
Respedfully, Daniel J. Oberst 
327 Alumni 

PAGE 3
.THE OBSERJJER. _ 







THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper TIMOTHY J. O'MEILIA, Editor-in-Chief DONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Executive Editor DAVID M. BREEN, Business Manager FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Somewhere a start must be made 
Notre Dame, the university with a Christian rc creation, and it will have to be just that, may commitment as a foundation and a civil rights be financed by a grant from the Ford Foundation, -· leader as a president, is doing far less than its share but the decision probably will not be announced, to eliminate white racism in its midst and in the until the summer. The black and white Notre United States. Dame community cannot wait that long for an 
Father Ilesburgh probably realizes this as well as indication of commitment from the university anyone, . and we do not envy his dual role as administration. It cannot t11kc the chan~c that the president of this university and chairman of the grant will not be forthcoming (there seems to be 
U.S. Civil Rights Commission. In the II years he considerable such speculation} and that the fall of has served on the Commission, he says he has 
1969 will find us still in the fall of 1968, For devoted 500 days --or almost two years to 
these reasons, and because we think there is a finding a cure for white racism, the problem being 
moral as well as an educational urgency to this discussed by this week's conference. At Notre 
problem, we ask the administration to promise :: Dame, he has had a major role inwhat little 
minimum investment of :.:n aJditional $500,000 in progress has been made. 
the black man at Notre Dame for next year. If the But it has been pitifully little. Today in the 
Ford grant is given, the $500,000 will serve to 17.th year of Father Hcsburgh 's presiden~y, there 
improve that much more what will even then be an arc about 70 black students and 7,700 white 
intolerable situation. Should the grant fall students enrolled in the university. There arc two 
through, the $500,000 r·nuld st;,rt to make a dent black teachers and more than 600 white teachers. 
in some vital areas:· $100,000 could help establish There arc no black administrators and no black 
a black studies program with a black director admission counselors. To date, there is no black 
dedicated to making Notre Dame intellectuallystudies program. The real solution to institutional 
and socially relevant to black America; with racism, Father Hesburgh says, is in changing the 
$20,000, the admissions office might be able to minds and hearts of people. We agree, but feel we 
hire two black recruiters and get them into ghetto should add that they are changed only by changing 
high schools by raising the office travel allowance the institutions and policies that are regulating 
from $2,000 to $20,000; another 35 black stu­those minds and hearts. 
dents could be awarded four year scholarships of 
A glance at the accompanying chart indicates $2,500 each year. And finally, $10,000 or so 
the extent of our poor showing in black admis­could be used to begin admissions work on 
sions as compared with the Ivy League schools. bringing other minorities, especially Spanish­
The administration tells us it's a question of speaking Americans, to what would be a changing 
dollars and cents, and indeed it is. Harvard has an Notre Dame. 
endowment of one billion dollars; Yale, $500 
All of which is very nice, many a skeptic may million, and Notre Dame, $62 million. Our efforts 
say, and ask, but where will all the money come at improving opportunities for non-white and 
from? In reality, the above suggestion (or its disadvantaged students are in line with our overall 
facsimile) is not so nice as it is essential to the 
financial situation, i.e., limited. Major rxpendi­future of this university. And for essentials, Notre 
tures this year have been the $130.000 being Dame always finds a financial way. As Fathergiven about 65 black students in scholarship aid , Hesburgh told the Committee for the Study of and the $20,000 bill Father Hesburgh picked up Nonviolent Resolutions, "If you can come up withfor The Black Arts Festival. 
a program, I'II get the money somehow." SoonThe admissions office is currently crippled not so after the committee met with Father Hesburgh, hemuch by lack of scholarship money as it is by Jack had come up with $100,000. The universityof interested black applicants. Senior Don Wycliff receives hundreds of sizeable and unrestricted gifts a black student from Texarkana, Tes. and a each year which could be tapped for the blacks. 
part time admissions counselor, estimates that But whatever way this is approached, an allocation about 70 of the 79 blacks who applied this year 
of this size is apt to raise considerable havoc with will be accepted. But if this year is anything akin 
the university's priorities. A havoc, we might add, to the past few, no where ncar the 70 will accept 
that is long overdue. For too long, intellectual and Notre Dame. "Many people seem to have the 
social justice have been too far down on Notre idea," says counselor John Goldrick, "that we can Dame's list of priorities.JUSt sit back and the good students Will come to 
us but it just isn't the case. What's a kid going The opportunity to change all that is clearly 
to do if Harvard offers him a full ride plus a round Father Hcsburgh's. As chairman of the Civil Rights 
trip ticket to visit tile campus?" Commission and as president of what is often 
lie is probably not, as Goldrick points out, regarded as this country's leading Christian univer­going to come to Notre Dame. In \966, only 12 of sity, he must be well aware of his responsibility of the 28 black students accepted arrived on campus leadership. If his positions and his statements arc the nrxt fall. In 1967, it was 29 of 77 and last to mean anything other than reinforcements of the year, 23 of 48. This university will probably never status quo, he must begin now to make Notre have enough money to attract black students on Dame a national example of racial sensitivity and the financial basis alone. It could, however, take corresponding moral and financial commitment to steps to re create a university which would be change. For reason, civility and justice at Notre at tract ivc in other ways to the blacks. Such Dame, we ask for a start of $500,000. 
1969  ADMISSION  STATISTICS  
Accepted  Freshman  Applications  Black  % Increase  
Places  Acceptance  
Average of Eight  
Ivy League Schools  1.615  1,010  6,741  142  89%  
Notre Dame  2,800  1,600  4.400  70  46%  
Ivy  league  statistics  from  N.  Y.  Times  April  20, 1969  

iAGE 4

P~~~--------------~~~------------~--~~--~~l.f.--~__Q_~--~~-~----------------------------W__ED_N_E_S_DA_Y~,_A_P_RI_L_2_3,_1_96__9 

Rev. Fry blasts 'deliberate white depression' 
"When the blue-eyed tourists Blackstone Ranger parishioners, visit my parish and sec the dirt used this theme of the black and decay and all those other community as the focal point evils which they heard about in for his lecture on "Black Ghet­Sociology 30 I, they don't con­toes" yesterday. Dr. Fry's lec­
sider the ghetto a community; it ture, one of a series of presenta­is simply a place where unfor­tions offered this week by the tunate people have to live." White Racism Conference, 
Rev. Johy Fry, noted white stressed the fact that the black clergyman from the South Side community has been "depres­of Chicago and defender of his sed" by the concerted effort of 
Girls to pick 14 reps 
Nominations for positions on the Student Assembly and for Hall Presidents opened Monday at Saint Mary's and will continue until Thursday midnight. Students may apply for posi­tions open to them in their next year's residence hall. 
The apportionment of Stu­dent Assembly representatives will be five from Le Mans, three each from Holy Cross and McCandless, two from Regina and one off-campus representa­tive. This is on the basis of one representative per hundred members of each constituent group. 
The Student Assembly will exercise the power to make formal statements and recom-
STARTS FRIDAY 
Short: Fabulous Canada Daily-7:00, 9:20 Sun-From 1:00 

CONTOURATM 
with Diamonds of Ultimate beauty 

Her fondest dreams come tne when you choose a Contoura diamond bridal set. 

by~eobe~ 

Import 
THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONOS -WHOLESALE-­SEEN BY APPOINTMENT 2927'/z MISHAWAKA AVE. PHONE 287·1427 

mendations on legislation and policy in all areas affecting students to all three College Councils and their committees. It will settle all matters of juris­diction in Student Government and hold final check on all its functions by approving all budgets and student appoint­ments and by its power to initiate recall proceedings. 
Hall Presidents will manage all hall functions, regulatibns and problems. They will appoint hall councils to aid in hall affairs and Will work with the hall repre­sentatives to the Student Assembly in formulating hall regulation. 
All candidates must submit platforms to Sally Strobel by Friday noon and participate in an open forum with their consti­tuents on election day, May 2. 
TAl RYU KAN 
SCHOOL OF 

KARATE 
IJ.tMONSTRA TION AND TO URNAMEl\'T 

April23, 1969:7:00 9:30P.M. $1.00 TIVOLI THEATRE Mishawaka 
white agencies, political, social Rev. Fry acknowledged the fact and religious, to dominate the that, although the attitude of black man's affairs. Fry noted the white ghetto worker is that "the whole spectrum of sincerely motivated, his end white professional people, law­effect is often detrimental to the 
yers, social workers, politicians, black community. all represent to the mind of the Rev. Fry, a minister of the Negro the same thing -police." First Presbyterian Church of Fry added that the black com­Chicago, located in the munity "never forgets that it is Woodlawn ghetto section of 
dealing with the enemy" and South Chicago, testified before a characterized the resulting Senate subcommittee headed by attitude between the ghetto Sen. John McClellan (D, Ark.) 
dweller and the white ghetto on behalf of the Blackstone worker as one of resentment; a Rangers. "get-off-our-backs" attitude. 
When asked in a briefly heated question -and-answer session, what could a middle-class white do to improve the ghetto situation and black-white relations Fry replied that the white person should concern himself with working within the white controlling agencies to destroy the ingrained racism that undoubtably exists there. But the ghettos themselves, Fry stressed, should be left up to the black commun­ity. 




ROTC critics claim political poison 
continued .(rum page I 
"The university is providing this service to the military at the expense of the students," he added. But he conceded that "I think it's a good thing that 
military officers (if we must have them) not be mindless boobs." 
Rev. Ernest Bartell, chairman of the economics department said that although he was a pacifist, his objection to the program was strictly on a profes­sionallevel. 
Bartell claimed that ''the system supporting ROTC is not the academic community." 

"This institutionally compro­mises the spirit of liberal inquiry," he said. "This is not a reflection on any of the individ­uals involved in the program, since I know that some of them have done their best to over­come this. However, they are working in this compromised system, which can always over­
rule them."
"We teach a three-hour Spanish course in CILA," he ained. "We decided not to 

r-------------------------L--~--------------------­
FINANCE CLUB MEMBERSHIPS 
All interested BA and non-BA students may obtain membership applications in lobby of Old BA Building. 
Questions and Applications to: 445 Cavanaugh or 206 Morrissey 
Deadline: 6 p.m., Thurs., Apri/24 

COLLEGIATE FOLK FESTIVAL 
IN STEPAN CENTER 
THIS AFTERNOON at 2:30 TONIGHT AT 7:30 
Mr. Garvey Mrs. Garvey 
and CHUCK AND MARY PERRIN 
ask for University credit, since we want to control the course and not submit to outside re­view. I think ROTC could do the same and still attract students, just as we do." 
In u.n editorial which ran last week in 28 college newspapers across the country, ROTC is 
charged with being "not only antithetical to the ultimate pur­poses of higher educaiion, but contrary to basic pedagogical principles as well." The editorial continues, claiming that the program's teaching methods are based on a doctrinaire approach. 
But perhaps the most damn­ing part of the editorial is the paragraph which cites an officer at the University of Minnesota: 
"In a frighteningly serious echo of Catch 22, he declared, "Marching is the basic leadership program for every officer." 
Although it might be inter­esting to learn exactly what the context of this statement was, it 
h
is an understatement to say t at such quotes do not attract those who may be trying to make up 
Give the Class of '7 1 
a boost, show your interest 
by voting today. 
Thank you, 
Barry T. Doyle 
their minds on the issue. Many students, as a matter of fact object to ROTC, or find them­
selves unwilling to join precisely for the emphasis placed on 
marching  and  the  "Marine­ 
Corps-builds-m en"  genre  of  
recruitment.  

Senior Pete Mcinerney re­calle{) seeing signs in the wash­rooms on campus at the begin­ning of the year which depicted several military weapons and bore the caption "See the dis­play of these weapons and the men who know how to usc them this afternoon at the ROTC building." 
"I really couldn't believe it," he recalled. "I wonder if they realize that such advertising probably turned off more students than it attracted. 
J u nior Tim McCarry also spoke in this vein when he said, "There have been studies of the authoritarian personality and its affinity for military-type dis­cipline and the military environ­ment." 
"There is this unquestioned political content which underlies ROTC training on all levels," he said. "The really distasteful word in that sentence is 'u nq uest ioned'. 
Mist critics would agree with McCarry and cite the use of certain training films which serve to reinforce this belief. They perceive the program as one of subtle political indoctrination, in addition to the merely military phase which many disagree with as well. 


Young Democrats Meeting 
Thursday, April 24, 1969 7 p.m. B-P Lounge ELECTION OF OFFICERS 
Nominations j{Jr all positions must be submitted by Wed. 6 p.m. tu 324 B-P. 
t'¥.UU$e JVt"stollj"'· 
ICraftsmen in Opttcs 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSES THE SHERLAND BLDG.--132 S. MICHIGAN ST.--CEntral2-1468 

Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.--Chicaqo 









