

atSMC 
.­
Nomination deadline extended

·THE WORLD TODAY 
Nominations for Saint Mary's community government should cept of Community Govern-student government positions actually be. The way I would ment; and 3) to create an aca­have been extended to noon interpret Community Govern-demic and community atmos­today when actual campaigning ment is a participation of all pherc where now there is none. will begin. segments of the community, stu-Pam Carey, the Chairman of
Chicago verdicts In, Hayden convicted 
According to Student Body dents, faculty, and administra-this year's Teacher Course Evalu-Vice President, Sally Strobel, the . tion, in all aspects of community ation at Saint Mary's, has placedCHICAGO (UPI)-A federal grand jury yesterday indicted eight 
nomination period was extended life." her name in nomination for Aca-Chicago policemen and eight demonstrators, including leaders of the "becausc there is only one con-She feels that students have demic Affairs Commissioner.
National Mobilization Committee and the Youth International 
tested and the spent much in to Mis
party, on criminal charges stemming from rioting during the office, election time the social According C· 
Democratic National Convention. com~1itt~c deci~ed !o reopen realm of ~aint Mary's and that "Next year, the most i~po~=~t ~ommahons until Fnday noon they have just begun to concern thing will be to have people on
Yippie leader Jerry Rubin greeted the federal indictment handed an m. more peo~~e with academic tl1e committees as representative
down against him in Chicago Thursday as if it were Academy t~e hor,e ..!.hat themselves the 
will apply. She added that Its realm. and as informed to the ne d fAward. Rubin said: not r~ally un~sual for elections Miss Driscoll encouraged the Saint Mary's as possible~ s:y"I accept, I accept, I accept. This is the greatest honor of my life. 
at Samt Mary s to have uncon-students to vote because she main concern is that thIt is with sincere humility that I accept this federal indictment. It is 
teste~ of~~ccs, but that ~~c w~s said_, ."It .strong~y enhances their people do the best job t~:;
the fulfillment of childhood dreams ... I wish to thank all those 
surpr~scd that these pohtJons m position m seekrng or demanding can."
who made it possible. 
part 1c ular were uncontested participation in the government" ... With my indictment, I join the list of outstanding world Miss Carey has been workingbecause they offer the greatest of this college that they evidencefigure~ who have crossed state lines with intent to create civil with the Academic Affairs Com­opportunity for students on this interest in the form of voting."
disturbances-the Beatles, Elvis Presley, the President and Joe mission since Freshman year.
campus." LeMans Hall President, KarenNamath." 
Next year she would like to seeAlthough two students, Barb Weller, has submitted her nomi­The indictments were returned before Chief Judgc William J. 
more pass/fail core
Curtin and Susan Turnbull have nation for the student represen­courses, aCampbell of U.S. District Court and announced simultaneously by continuing and broadening offilcd for the office of President, the Affairs
Atty. Gen. John N. Mitchell in Washington. tative to Student the areas worked on by thisthe only candidate to have CounCil. She is a junior and theThe eight civilians, first persons ever indicted under the antiriot year's committee, and widen­
placed her name in nomination Chairman of the St. Mary's aprovisions of the 1968 Civil Rights Act, were charged with ing and improvement of Admis­for the office of Vice President Residence Hall Committee.
conspiring to usc interstate commerce with intent to incite acts of sions and scholarship programs.
is junior Beth Driscoll. Her reasons for running are:violence. They arc: 
Miss Driscoll believes that 1) for a greater appreciation· of The final election date has not-David T. Dellinger, 53, Brooklyn, N.Y., chairman of the "We have at present a more or diversity and dissent; 2) for the been changed. Elections will still National Mobilization Committee to End the War in Vietnam. 
less token initiation of what a full implementation of the con-_be hel~ next.Friday, March 28.
-Rennard Rennie C. Davis, 28, Chicago, local leader of the ···h·-------...._____ :--·· -­National Mobilization. 
-Thomas E. Hayden, 29, New York City, a founder of Students for a Democratic Society (SDS), a self described radical organization which has been prominent in disruptions on college campuses. 

Defense Dept. builds case for ABM's 
·WASHINGTON (UPI) -The Nixon administration, presenting its case for ·the antiballistic missile system, disclosed yesterday that the Russians now have the power to "destroy substantially all" of America's Minutemen missiles. 
Not only is the first line U.S. nuclear deterrent already in jeopardy, Defense Department officials told Congress and the nation, hut the Polaris missile submarine fleet will become vulner­able to Soviet attack in three or four years. 
This appraisal of a rapidly growing Soviet missile threat was presented to a nationally broadcast hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee by Defense Secretary Melvin R. Laird and his chief deputy, David Packard. 
Both urged Senate approval of President Nixon's decision to 

Whelan 

deploy an antimissile defense the new Safeguard ABM--which 
by J•m Prisby (2) Working with individual to the Student Life Council, as
would protect Minutemen missiles stored underground in II Hall Councils to ensurj: reason-appropriate, for improving the
strategically located sites, as well as Washington, D.C. The President for Student Af­able uniformity of their activi-quality of hall life. He should be
fairs Rev. Charles McCarragher 

ties and to provide information a member, ex officio, of the
Lodge claims ••war Intensification" esc, announced yesterday a 
and other assistance for the ef-Tripartite Hall Life Board.
change in the administrative per­

PARIS (UPI) -The United States and South Vietnam yester~ay fective operation of these Coun-The number and exact roll of
sonnel for the University.

bitterly attacked the Communists for stepping up the Vietnam War 
cils. assistant rectors and prefects
Rev. Daniel O'Neil has been

in an effort to take over South Vietnam "by force." 
(3) To establish and admini-should be determined by th..
appointed Director of the Inter­

• The charges were made as negotiators from North Vietnam and 
national Student Organization

the National Liberation Front accused President Nixon of intensify­
and Foreign Student Advisor,

ing the war since he took office. 
effective immediately.

American delegation chief Henry Cabot Lodge flatly rejected the 
Rev. Laurence Broestl will re­

Communist charge and said "this allegation is not supported by the 
main the Director of Foreign

facts." 
Study Programs and will con­

Following the four hour and five minute ninth session of the 
tinue as Assistant Vice-President

Vietnaft1 peace talks, Lodge commented: for Student Affairs.
"The thing that was surprising to me ... was that the other side had Rev. Edgar Whelan has been
made a serious error in saying this that the United States had 
appointed Director of the Office

intensified the war because they could not sustain it." 
for Student Residence, as dir­ected by the Student Life Couo­


92 Arabs killed on flight to Mecca 
cil, effective immediately. His 


Rev. Edgar Whelan C.S.C. Rev. Daniel J. O'Neil C.S.C. 
CAl RO (UPI) A Russian built turboprop airliner carrying office will be under the Vice­home Arab worshippers who won a pilgrimage to Mecca in a national President for Student Affairs. ster open and equitable pro­Director of Student Residence, lottery crashed and burned yesterday at Aswan Airport. At least 92 Fr. Whelan's responsibilities cedure for the admission of stu­or, pending his appointment, by of the I 04 persons aboard were killed. will be: dents to residence halls, and for the Dean of Students, after con· 
The 2 a.m. crash at the hilltop airport 500 miles south of Cairo (I) The establishment of the approval of off-campus hous­sultation with individual hall was the second major airline disaster in four days. A Venezuelan orientation and continuing edu­ing. councils. ])('<) jetliner went down Sunday in Maracaibo, killing at least 154 cational programs to ensure high (4) The continuing evaluation In regards to his new position, persons, making it the worst aviation accident in history. professional standards for rec­of hall life and formation of Fr. Whelan said, "I'd like to 
1'!1!' Egyptian interior ministry said the four engine, Ilyushin 18 tors, prefects, and ot~cr hall recommendations to the Vice· meet with different llall Coun­turboprop, d(~liycrcd to United Arab Airlines only two weeks ago, personnel. President for Student Affairs or cils. wobbled out of control as it approached the runway, and its wingtip dug into the ground. The airliner tipped over, smashed into the ground and exploded. 
The ministry said of the 97 passengers aboard, 90 were killed 

Senate announces stay senators 
instantly and two later died in hospitals. The survivors were listed in Last night, the Student Senate Two bills calling for the said, "that there is a large turn­
critical condition. held its last business meeting amending of the Student over in the senate from year to 
Its All America City time again! under the direction of Richard Government Constitution and year. Stay senators arc the men Rossie, the outgoing Student the Report of the Investigating who will be the leaders of next
NEW YORK (UPI)-New Albany, Ind. was selected yesterday as 
Body President, and his adminis­Committee on the Pornography year's senate." He also stated one of the II U.S. communities to receive the title of All America tration. and Censorship Conference were that they will be the chairmen ofCity in a contest sponsored by the National Municipal League and The major point of business also presented to the Student the four committees under theLook Magazine. 
was the election of stay senators Senate for debate in the next Student Senate: Student LifeElkhart, Ind., was among those receiving honorable mention. 
for the next senate term. Sena­business meeting. Committee, Academic Affairs,The awards arc given each year to the cities that demonstrate tors Rich Hunter of Breen­After the senate unanimously Human Affairs, and Constitu­"citizen action" in solving major community problems. The winners Phillips, Ed Davey of Farley, decided to fix the number of tional Revision. 
were sleeted from a record 156 entries. 
John Zimmerman of Alumni stay senators at four, Rossie Prior to the election of stay,Other. cities besides New Albany in the top II were Saginaw, 
and Tom Thrasher of Stanford stated both the purpose of and senators, R?ssie read a letterMich., C.h~rlotte, N.C., Cottage Grove, Ore., Danville, Ky., Edinburg, were elected by the members of the position filled by stay sena­
Tex., Fairbanks, Alaska; Jacksonville, Fla., San Diego, Calif., (continued on page 6) 
the Senate.

Savannah, Ga., and Snyder, Tex. tors. "It is customary," Rossie 

Serving the Notre name and Saint Mary's Collet:e Community 
VOL. Ill, No. 106 

FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 1969 


McCarragher names 

.. 

THE OBSERVER. FRIDAY, MARCH 21,1969
PAGE;l 

Farmer calls Civil Rights Movement obsolete 

The resounding voice of James Farmer, U.S. Undersecre­tary of Health, Education and Welfare, filled the Morris Civic Auditorium and closed out this week's SUAC Black Power For­um at 8:00 last night. The Undersecretary, speaking entire­ly without aid of a microphone, presented his views on the changing civil rights movement and the concept of Black Power in general. 
''I'm very pleased to be here tonight," he said, "because I feel that it's terribly important that there be discussion and dialogue on the racial question. Answers which once seemed useful and adequate are now archaic and obsolete." This was an obvious reference to the integration­oriented civil rights movement of 1954-64, which Farmer be­lieves has not "meaningfully changed the life situation of the average American black. In a 
~· 
way, everything's changed, but that all Americans, white and everything's still the same. Only black, have been "programmed middle class blacks have been by the racism in the nation's 
accommodated; the black ghetto culture." He cited as examples resident's improvement has not the unfair historical treatment of kept pace with that of other the Negro in public school text-ethnic groups." books and the stereotyping of 
Farmer noted that the surr. Negroes in films. "It's hard to total of segregation has increased grow up here without residues of during the past few years; he this programming," he said. "So pro pounded the explanation how can a black child develop any self-esteem when he's faced with such a condition? How can the white develop any respect for the black?" 
To effectively combat this "cultural racism," the Under­secretary advocated the "change of agenda" offered by Black Power: "This nation, contrary to popular belief, is not a melting pot; it's a pluralistic society made up of ethnic groups. We must enter it as a proud entity." To accomplish this, he favors instruction and appreciation of the black man's African heritage. 

"We  must  identify  with  our  
homeland,"  he  said.  "It's  the  
umbilical cord to our past."  

Kennedy backs Red China's admission to UN 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D. Mass., taking a position dramatically opposed to that of President Nixon, ca1led yesterday for Communist China's admission to the United Nations and for early discussions between Peking and Washington on resuming diplo­matic relations. 
Kennedy proposed giving the Chinese Communists the seats now held by the Taiwan regime <2f Chiang Kai shek in the U.N. General Assembly and Security Council; with Nationalist China retaining some representation. 
The United States should take the initiative because it is unreal­istic for Peking to do so in the light of past relations, Kennedy said in a speech prepared for the National Committee on United States China relations in New York City. 
~'It is our obligation," he said. 
"We are ·the great and powerful nation, and we should not condi­tion our approach on any favor­able action or change of attitude by Peking." 
"For us to begin a policy of peace would be a credit to our history and our place in the world today," he added. "To continue our present path will lead only to further hostility and the real possibility of mutual destruction." 



This summer; studya language with the world's most experienced teachers. 

choice. 

Your teachers will be waiters, waitresses, bartenders, barmaids, shopkeepers, bellboys, chambermaids, hotel clerks, policemen, cab drivers ... and just plain and fancy natives. 
You'll do more than learn a language. That, you can do through text books. You'lllearn how to communicale with that language. 
What language do you want your forte to be? French, Italian, German, Swahili, Spanish, Portuguese, Greek???? You name it. And TWA will fly you there for your summer 
Why TWA? 

Because we have more flights going to where you're probably going during the summer, than any other airline. 
That means you can leave when you want to leave-not when someone tells you it's your turn to leave. 
Call TV/A, your travel agent or the TWA campus representative. 
TWA 
The things we'll do to make you happy. 
Kennedy clearly took issue with a position taken by Presi­dent Nixon at his first White House news conference Jan. 27-one week after taking office. 
Nixon, who many political observers will believe will have to fight Kennedy for the presi­dency in 1972, said at that time it would be a "mistake" for the United States to abandon its opposition to Communist China's admission to the United Nations. 
The President added he was looking for indications "whether any changes of attitude on their part on .major substantive issues may have occurred. 
"Until some changes occur on their side, however, I see no immediate prospect of any change in our policy," Nixon said. 

cf}Wany-have moved-· but the %ulists 8tay-On... 
The Paulists arrived on the West Side of New York City in 1858. In 1895 they moved into San Francisco's China­town and into the fringes of Chicago's Loop in 1904. They're still there. Times change. Neighborhoods change. Sometimes they go up. Sometimes they go down­but through it all the Paulist stays. As long as there are people to be served the Paulist will be there. 
The Paulist may be in the same old place but he con­stantly does new things. That's one of the characteristics of the Paulist order: using their own individual talents in new ways to meet the needs of a fast-changing world in the col­leges ... in communications ... in the ghettos. 
If you have given some thought to becoming a P·rlest, write for an illustrated brochure and a copy of our recent Renewal Chapter Guidelines. Write to: 
Vocation Director 

'Paulistth 

cpa etC 
Room 213 c 415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 
10019 

Observer is pu during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 


---~~----------.,
----------------~------~----~~~~ -----~--­
FRIDAY, MARCH 21,1969 PAGEJ
THE OBSERVER. 

Over 1000 parents coming 



Junior Parents-Son Weekend starts today ~ 


ENGINEERING SCIENCE 
Literary Festival opens Sunday 
METALLURGICAL ENGR. Harold Hayes, editor of editor, Hayes has done much to 
WILL BE I-lAVING OPEN HOUSE MONDAY ~:"squire magazine, will open the revitalize the magazine, present­
MARCH 24, 7:00P.M. annual Sophomore Class Liter­ing such authors as James 
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM
ary Festival on Sunday after­Baldwin, Norman Mailer, and 
You owl' it to yourself ... 

noon at 4 p.m. in the Library Gore Vidal. !!ayes was the first Auditorium. lie will talk on magazine editor to be awarded a 
JOIN SCRIPTO PEN's MYSTERY TOUR
"The Search for a New Literary Nieman fellowship to Harvard Generation." Universit . Also on Sunday's program will be an address by LcRoi 

OF EUROPE FOR A MONTH • 
Applications for editor dramatist, poet, essayist, and Jones, well known black militant 
of 1970 Blue Mantle social critic. Jones, whose 
are now open ­
appearance will be co-sponsored 


AND TAKE A CHANCE ON THIS POI.AROIDI 
by this week's Black Arts Festi­submit your name to
val, is scheduled to lecture on black drama at 8 p.m. in Wash­Chris Hand 
~ 
ington Hall. 

Box 695 SMC In his four years as !:"squire's 
by March 31st 
Silver to Minn. 
Dr. James Silver, professor of history is one of 18 educators participating in a National Hu­manities Faculty program to in­




Miller 
crease interest in the humanities in the secondary school systems of four American cities. 

Makes it 
Silver will be working in the Minneapolis, Minn., public school system. 


Right! 
STEWART SANDWICH SERVICE 
Available in every hall on campus Stewart Sandwich 
Service 925 Blaine 232-2625 



NEW CONTEST 
USED CARS 

When You Purchase Your Own Scripto Pen At The Bookstore, The Cashier WillScc-Ed Moran (N.D. 
Give You A Lu~ky Nimber Which Could '69) at John's Auto s Sales 
Be The One Drawn On March 31 . Be 702 Mishawaka 
Sure To Purchase Your Scripto Pen And phone: 255-9342 
Also Enter The: 
SCRIFTO MYSTERY TOUR'
Corner of Cedar & Mishawaka Ave's. 

You have nothing to lose. And everything to gain. Just send in your Mystery Tour entry blank.
ALSO: New Suzuki Bikes 

10 Lucky Gals and 10 Lucky Guys will tour Europe-together-like it's never been toured before, Four weeks of joy 
and ecstacy. In Europe's grooviest cities. You start in London-the rest is 
FRESHMAN CLASS 
presents 
a mystery. Only the bus driver knows the way. 
THE REOPENING of the CELLAR 
Bistros by night. Beaches by day. Scripta will wine you and dine you ... 
with 
all for the price of a juicy Scripto pen.
THE SHADES of RHYME 
A vail able at the
.\"at. March 22 9-1 
Boys $1.00 Club '72 $ .50 Girls $ .50 

Notre Dame Hammes Bookstore 
Notre Dame's annual Junior will have the choice of spending I: 30, the four collegeS', including in the Stepan Center. Fr. Hcs­the Juniors and their parents, Parents-Son Weekend is set to an evening of either culture or the military and architectural burgh and Leo Klemm, the Presi­followed by a communion begin today. It will open with athletics. The Bengal Bout finals departments, will hold recep­dent of the Junior Class arc breakfast in the North Uining parent registration this after­will be held at 8 PM in the tions with the deans and faculty scheduled to be the guest Hall. This year's featured noon at 4:00 and will end with a Athletic and Convocation Cen­mcm hers of each of the colleges speakers. The toastmaster for speaker at the breakfast will be communion brcakfasst at 9:30 ter. Also at 8, the Student Union and departments. The receptions the affair will be Jay Fitzsim­Richard Rosenthal, President of Sunday morning. Social Commission will present will be held in the respective mons, the Chairman of the the St. Joseph Valley Bank and 
the Broadway musical, A Funny college buildings, with the ex­Weekend. the former President of theIn a letter addressed to the Thing Happened on the Way to ception of the Business and ·1 he weekend will conclude Notre Dame Alumni Associa­parents, the University Presi­
the Forum, at the Morris Civic Science receptions. The Business Sunday with a special Mass for tion.
dent, Rev. Theodore Hesburgh Auditorium. reception will be held in LaFor-..---------------------------,

stated that the purpose of this 
tune Student Center and the 


FRESHMEN a SOPHOMORES
weekend is to provide the oppor­During registration on Satur­
Science is to be held in the 

tunity for them "to come to the day morning, the University will Memorial Library. 
campus, to meet the members of hold an open house. Tours of 
Following the college recep­

the Ad ministration and faculty, specific building on both the 
??? UNDECIDED ON YOUR MAJOR ???
tions, Fr. Hesburgh and the Uni­

to witness the methods by which Notre Dame and St. Mary's cam­
versity Executive Vice-President, 

our goals for your sons are being puses will be given. The tours 
Rev. Edmund Joyce, will hold a 

achieved, and to feel the true will be followed by a luncheon 
reception in the Center for Con­

spirit of Notre Dame." in the South Dining Hall. 
CIVIL ENGINEERING
tinuing Education. At 7:30, the On Friday night the parents On Saturday afternoon, at President's dinner will_ be given 
-
~-----------~ 
PAGE4 
THE OBSERVER 






THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper WILLIAM LUKING. Editor-in-Chief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3. 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
True Community 
In yesterday's editorial entitled "Visitation" we explored the Board 
of Trustees concession to the student body in the form of parietal 
hours. We pointed out that the University holds the attitude that the 
students are its precious children and that their every move should be 
guarded with extreme caution. The essential difference between 
administrator and student is not parietal hours, but rather a deeper 
disagreement on the role of the University and the so-called "University 
community." 

l11at last hackneyed phrase is shuffled back and forth among the 
University President, Student Body Presidents and candidates, Student 
Senators, faculty members, Student Life Council members, alumni, and 
even OESER VER columnists. The problem is, everyone of them has 
formed his own definition of just exactly what the Notre Dame 
University community should be. 

Through a careful examination of University President Rev. 
Theodore M. Hesburgh's speeches and pronouncements over the years, 
can be gleaned his idea, more or less, of a University community. It is a 
residential community-everyone living on campus. The traditional 
Notre Dame family idea, as professed by the various University 
publications, is the basis on which the University's public relations is 
built. Therefore it would be safe to assume that the "official 
University," i.e., the administration, is attempting to fulfill image. It 
seems to us that concept has long been untenable. 
It may have been possible, may have in fact existed, in the past. But 
since the Corby Hall riots of a few years ago led to the abolition of the 
lights out rule, the University has gradually moved away from the old 
concept. 

The students have been treated as the children of the Notre Dame 
family with the administration as the benevolent father. That is no 
longer acceptable. Students are mature and responsible enough to take 
part in much of the decision-making of the University, as regards student life, academic affairs, and all other areas where students have a legitimate stake. High hopes have been placed in the Student Life Council, as giving the student an equal voice in at least his own affairs. But even that body's decision are subject to the grandfatherly whims of the Board of Trustees. If that is to remain the case, students should have places on the Board. But the student voice in academic affairs is nil. Only after 
absurd lengths of time will the student ideas for academic reform be placed before the Academic Council. Ana even all that painstaking work may be ignored. 
It is a mistaken idea to assume that a true community must be built upon room after room of the identically sterile living conditions which now exist in the halls. A community does not depend upon a close proximity of residences. True, a community does depend upon a common element among its members, but that element is an attitude. 
There needs to be a common definition of what the Notre Dame community should be. And the administration must realize that the students will not be content to be cast in the role of acne-faced, adolescents. The sooner they come to this realization, the quicker the University can move toward fulfilling the definition of community-a sharing, not a ruling. 
FRIDAY, MARCH 21, 1969 


llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 

Don Hynes 
"Art and Life" 

1111111111111111111,1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
The University, in the person of the Student Life Council, concurred unanimously last week in the belief that the criterion for all local publications be that these works be un-offensive to the sensibilities of the community. Like harmonious music, writing should be pleasing, and most often this means condescending, to the individual. Accepting stagnation and inertia for comfort and security. This is anti-art. 
Art is only a vehicle. Vehicle in that it aids man in coming to an 
awareness of reality. Art does not make the world attractive or 
repulsive. The world is infinitely beautiful and infinitely ugly, 

simultaneously. Art, like drugs, cannot alter reality, but rather aid in 
the perception of it. Art must be offensive to the sensibilities of the 
viewer in order to effect its goal. 
All truly visionary ideas, thoughts which spring from the creative 
imagination, are going to be offensive to the majority. Merely by 
deciding to become part of the majority, one chooses to become a 
zombie-adhering to an established set of opinions and thoughts, and 
accepting an accompanying set of rules for their permutation, but 
never their abandonment. Walking along in a hypnotic trance, 
without a consciousness of self, secure in the womb of conformity. 
If the demand is made on art that it be un-offensive to the 
sensibilities of the vjewer, this means that the givens must be 
accepted, and only the conclusions be challenged, and even these on 
a limited and restricted level. How pretentious it is to assume that 
any of our givens are valid. The history of man in society is one of 
utter failure, of a gorilla trapped in a jungle who has hallucinated 
concrete buildings instead of trees to live in, and now feels that he is 
no longer a· gorilla. Man constructs monstrous buildings, planes that 
fly high in the air, even space ships, and still attempts to see with his 
eyes locked shut. No idea is true for all time. No thought is golden. 
I
The reality of the world is all that is true, and until man can perceive reality, until he manifests the fear and courage to crawl out of his 
~ 
cave, he will remain in the dark, an isolated and destructive creature. 
I

There are no givens worth preserving. The idea of possessing 
knowledge is western and directly related to the concept of 
property. lnsecure and afraid to stand alone, man clings to 
possessions. A piece of land, a woman, a book, a painfully and 
perversely conditioned Id. When a belief becomes a retention, and 
the stability of it a necessity, any attack on the idea becomes an 
attack on the person, and the person can and will react, with a 
degree of violence that depends on the importance of the possession. 
All the property in the world is only an illusion of existence. It is a 
facade of grandeur and importance which can crumble in the slighest 
gust. 

Building up walls of defense against reality is absurd. Walls of 
money, clothes, houses, and truisms which are actually believed to 
be true. No wall can shut a man off from himself, and no wall will 
keep out the nightmare of the vision when it arrives. We must see 
ourselves, see ourselves as the insignificant scum and shit of thi~s 
planet, with the fantastic gift of imagination. Ugly and beautiful. 
Life and death. We are nothing, and when we finally sec ourselves as 
nothing we see all things. Not pride, but self-love, for everything is 
contained within and we are contained without. 
There can be no vision, no imagination, with iron-clad structures 
and· rules, There can be no givens, no sensibilities that cannot be 
offended, when they arc being offended to help man, stumbling, 
into the light. This is art. This is what Notre Dame as well as the rest 
of the world desperately needs. To break out of the hypnotic trance, 
to give up the safety and warmth of the womb, to let every wall 
disintegrate into decay, and to die, to live. 

j 
FRIDAY, MARCH 21,1969 THE OBSERVER 
PAGE5 
------------------------------------------------------~~~~------------------------------------------------


Hesburgh letter has met stiff criticism 

Hcprintcd with pamzsswn of the Wall Street Journal, Friday, March 7, 1969. 
Since the lime Father llesburgh issued his now famous hard-line stand against campus demonstra­tions, reactions have been received from administra­tors at small and large, peaceful and troubled colleges from across the country. A surprising number have said that "confrontation," a term most abhorred by college officials, may he the unfortunate result of the letter. 
Many administrators, rather than standing with lleshurgh, believe that his policy may be a prescrip­tion for disaster. a typical reaction comes from an administrator at California's San Fernando Valley Stale College, where an agreement with black stu­dents was recently reached: "If we had taken Father 
llesburgh's  stand  the  place  would  probably  have  
burned down."  
Most  administrators  have agreed  on  a  policy  of  

moderation-a calculated and conciliatory strategy designed to grant legitimate student demands and, above all, avert chaos. William Caples, a former steel executive and now president of Kenyon College, says, "I've tried my best to keep the channels of communi­calion open with the students. If ther•)'s anything I've learned from years of bargaining with the Steel­workers' Union, it's thai you have to stay loose, be flexible and talk." 
llesburgh pleaded for "rational discourse" rather than a resort to force. But many administrators see his stand as an intractable one that could produce violent disorder. And many call it unrealistic. 
"We think we can work things out without resorting to ultimatums," says an official at Clare­mont College in California. An administrator at the lJ niversity of Chicago declares, "We have to answer to I,000 faculty members, while Father llesburgh has to answer only to the l'ope." (This is not quite true, as Father llesburgh in fact answers to the lay-dominated hoard of trustees.) 
The president of one prominent liberal arts college in the l;asl won't allow his name to be mentioned hut has harsh things to say about llesburgh's position. "lie has taken a simplistic approach to a complicated problem," this man says_ "It isn't fair to mislead so many people including the President of the United Slates into thinking lhallhis hard line will result in a rcstorali<'n of peace on the campus. I haven't talked to a single college or university president who feels this is a good solution. It merely encourages state legislatures to pass restrictive bills, or peoplt! who arc threatened in some way by youth to crack down." "Father llcsburgh, if I understand him correctly, rules out due process completely." 


Brown University D~an F. Donald Eckelmann says, "You need a completely intimidated student body to make that sort of statement and get away with it. I think it will come back to haunt him." Dean Eckelmann <Jdds, "We'd never consider that sort of approach here." 
Administrators queried concede, however, that the time for stern action may come. Charles Hitch, president of the University of California system, says an administrator must be "as firm and tough in opposing vandalism, coercion and violence on the one hand as he is wise, reasonable and responsible in considering valid suggestions on the other." 
When strong action becomes necessary, moderate administrators arc careful to diffuse responsibility and bring students into the disciplinary process. At Oberlin College in Ohio 59 students face punish­ment including possible expulsion for a sit-in February 20, when Marine Corps recruiters attempted to hold interviews. 
The disciplinary decision has been handed to a panel of four students and four professors. Provost John Kneller and President Robert K. Carr remain aloof from the proceedings. "Anything the president or I said would be construed as influencing the board's deliberations," Mr. Kneller explains. 
Kent State University now feels it is in a position to take a firm stand because it has shown moderation; it didn't press prosewtion of about 250 militant demonstrators in November. "We've shown faculty and moderate students that we were willing to sit down and try to work things out," says Robert Matson, vice-president for student affairs. But if another demonstration comes, he warns, "We'll he in the same league with Father llcsburgh." 
The Arts---· 
FILMS 
h'lvira Madigan, will be presented in Washington 
Hall tonight at 7:15 and 9:30. Admission is $1. 
The Night They Raided Miniski (Avon; 7:00, 
9:20) 
The Wrecking Crew (State; I:20, 3:20, 5:20, 7:20, 
9:20) 
Joanna (Granada; I: 15,3:45,6:15, 8:45) 
Romeo and Juliet (Colfax; 2:00, 8:00) 
Star (River Park; 2:30, 5:30) 
COFFEEHOUSES 
Tlze Ntlz Degree (Social Center, basement of Moreau SMC); oepn Sat. and Sun. evenings (8:30-12). Performing Saturday will be Pete Peter­son, Ed Sheehy, Bernie Ryan, Skip Webb, Mabel Benjamin, Greg Dana, and James Jackson, Ira Rogers, and Ron Sherman from the Black Arts Festival. Performing Sunday will be Chuck Perrin, Chris Raming, Tim McCarry, Mark Genera, John Nichols, Jeff Johnson, Steve Johns, and Ginner Meagher. There will be no Mass. 
The Lower Level is permanently dosed. 





TONIGHT! 
NEW YORK CAST 
A FUNNY THING HAPPENED 
(on the way ToThe Forum) 
MORRIS CIVIC 
Tickets 

$5.50 
~ t~ailable At: 
Gilberts 

Bookstore At The Door 

Parents: get your tickets at Registration, Center for Continuing Education. 
student union academic commission 


FRIDAY, MARCH 21,1969
THE OBSERVER. 



QUABA CI.UB 
Four stay senators elected 
At Guiseppe's (continued from page I) In this letter McKenna also
Sat Mar. 22 
Hickey, Mike Kendall,. Bob recommended the election of 
Rigney and Steve Ahern. 

issued by President elect, Phil Hunter, Zimmerman and Davey McKenna. McKenna stated, for the position of stay senator. After the election of stay
Quaba Trio 
senators, Rossie adjourned the"The primary purpose of next The fourth senator recommend­meeting. The next senate meet-,$1.50 per couple $1.00 with '71 Key Card year's Student Senate will be to ed by McKenna, Steve Ahern, ing, on March 31, will consist ofprovide the impetus for reform withdrew from the race. 

the installation of the next Stu­

within the University. Bills with The four new stay senators Buses ND 7:40 SMC 7:50 
dent Body President, McKenna'good ideas' will not be enough; will take over the positions pre­and his administration. 

8:30 8:40 
every bill must be accompanied viously held by Senators John 
by a well thought out plan. In..----=------=--------------------, 
order to facilitate this role, it is

Charge for round trip bus ride 
essential that this body .select 
STUDENT UNION CALENDER
$.50 
energetic and dedicated men to 
For the Vlleek of March 21-27 
serve as stay senators." 

ABSOLUTELY NO STAGS on Saturday Friday, March 21 
3:30PM Professor Keith Gunderson, University of Minnesota, will lecture "Mind-Body Per­
plexities," in Lewis Hall. Sponsored by the department of philosophy. 3:00-10:00 PM Junior Parents-Sons Weekend Registration in Continuing Education Center. 
il 
7:30PM Professor Carl V. Page, Michigan State Uni­versity, will speak on "The Human Part of Artificial Intelligence" in Room 303, Engineering Building. 
8:30 PM "Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum," will be presented in Morris Civic Auditorium. Tickets are $4.50 or $5.50. 
8:00PM Black Culture in Literature and Fine Arts



PiliI' 

Festival-Jeff Donaldson, PH.D. candidate at Northwestern University will speak on his exhibit of "Black Experience and Strug­
gle" in the Center for Continuing Education basement. 
' 8:00PM Bengal Bout finals in the Athletic and 
Budweiser® 
is the 

Convocation. 
Saturday, March 22

King of Beers® 
9:00 AM-1 :00 PM Junior Parents-Sons Weekend Registration
(But you know that) 
continues in the Continuing Education Center. 
1:30 to 3:30PM Junior Parents-Sons Weekend College recep­tions.
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC.-, ST. LOUIS • NEWARK • LOS ANGELES • TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS 
3:00-5:00 PM Junior Parents-Sons Weekend President's Reception in the Center for Continuing Education. 
7:30-10:00 PM Junior Parents-Sons Weekend President's Dinner at Stepan Center (Doors open at 6:45) 
8:00 PM Black Culture in Literature and Fine Arts Festivai-"Biack Voices," featuring Val Gray, 
Askthe 2618 graduates dramatist; Eugene Perkins, editor of "Black Expression;" David Lloren, Associate editor of "Ebony;" and Sigemond Wimbeli, writer, will be presented in the Library Auditorium. Public Invited.


who joined an industry 
Sunday, March 23 
8:30 AM Junior Parents-Sons Weekend Communion Mass at Sacred Heart

leader last year 
9:30AM Junior Parents-Sons Weekend Breakfast in the North Dining Hall 
4:00PM Sophomore Literary Festival: Harold Hayes, is speaking on "The Search for a New Liter"'~' ~:;nert~tion" in the Library Auditor­ium.

-aboutJEtna. 
8:00PM Black Culture in Literature ""{! FinC' l'.rt~ Festival-lo>roi J:.a.es, poet, playwright, novelist, C!~d e55dyist, w' :1 speak in Washing ton Hall. Co-sponsored by the Black Arts Festival and Sophomore Literary Festival. Public Invited 
Monday, March 24 

8:15PM Spring Concert by the Glee Club in Wash­ington Hall 
8:00PM Daniel Stern will lecture on "New Realities, New Illusions in Literature" in the Library Auditorium. Sponsored by the Sophomore Literary Festival 
Tuesd~y. March 25 
8:00PM Sidney l.arroll will lecture on "Is the Screen Writer Really a Writer" in the Center for Continuing Education Auditorium. Spons­ored by the Sophomore Literary Festival. 
8:15PM 

Pianist Ida Krehm will perform in the library Auditorium and Lounge. 
Wednesday, March 26
Even .tEtna can't be everybody's thing. But for any 
8:00 PM George Plimpton will lacture on "An ama­
graduate with an interest in people and an inquisitive 
teur Among the Pros" in Stepan Center.
mind, a career with us can stretch your capabilities. 
Sponsored by the Sophomore Literary Festi­
Helping people is our kind of thing. After all that's 
val. what insurance is all about. Ifit's also yours, we have Thursday, March 27 opportunities in three basic areas-administrative, 4:00PM Peter Devries will lecture on "Laughter in analytical or sales management. And we need 
Theory and Practice" in the Library Audi­torium. Sponsored by the Sophomore
engineering and business graduates as well as liberal 
Literary Festival
arts people. 

8:00 PM John Knowles will lecture on "Why I write"
At .tEtna, our business is selling insurance. But our 


in the library Auditorium. Sponsored by
concern is people. 

the Sophomore Literary Festival. 
NOTE: All information that is to be included in the Student Union Calendar must be in the Student Service Learn about lEtna. Ask for "Your Commission Office ( 4-D LaFortune) no later than 
Own Thing" at your Placement Office. 
-OUR CONCERN IS PEOPLE 2 P.M. Wednesday.
An Equal Opportunity Employer and A Plans for Progress Company. 
LIFE & CASUALTY A Service of Student Union 
FRIDAY, MARCH 21,1969 
PAGE 7
THE OBSERVER. 

Breaking the rules less and enjoying it more? 
It is rare that a student is suspended or dismissed here at Not rc Dame. In fact, the 1966-67 school year saw only 
• two dismissals from the univer­sity and nine suspensions, and last year there -.yere but three dismissals and seven suspensions. There hiis been a noticeable decline in the number of dismis­sals from the school over the years, and it is not simply a matter of fewer laws for the student to comply with. It's "the way they're being interpreted," says Fr. James Riehle, Dean of Students. Most students were probably shocked by the 1898 newspaper clipping in the cast library bul­letin board on Fr. Morrissey, President of Notre Dame at that time; students undoubtedly found his extreme position on drinking almost humorous. Even the strict disciplinary rules of the past ten years seem rather stern to many students today. At many different eras at Notre Dame laws and rules have been applied, rules which now seem very much out of the ordinary and almost uncalled for, and yet rules which were relative to their times-relative to customs, modes of thinking, etc. Today Notre Dame has its relative rules: motor vehicle reg­ulations, laws governing stealing, property damage, drunkencss, women visitations and drugs. These arc the areas rclavent to the student today, and with which the administration must concern themselves. 
The Student Manual cites thir­teen university rules, in violation 
of which the student may be 
involves a one to two semester dismissed, suspended, placed on 
absence from the school. disciplinary probation, requlred to move off campus, imposed However, even these notions with a monetary fine or required 
have become altered over the to participate in some construc­
years. The dismissed student, who must generally enter a mili­

tive activity. "Dismissal" usually tary service, is often able to gain
implies an absolute break with re-admittance to the universitythe school, while "suspension" 
South Bend bids to annex ND, SMC 
The city of South Bend yes­terday made great gains yesterday in their attempt to annex the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. 
Proposed annexation ordinan­ces were filed in the City Clerk's office Thursday and will be brought before the South Bend 
Common  Council  on  Monday  
evening.  
South  Bend  would  gain  by  

this annexation by becoming eligible for a larger distribution of Indiana cigarette and motor vehicle taxes. The distribution of these funds is made on the basis of population. 
If the -two campuses are annexed, South Bend could receive an additional $83,000 after the 1970 census. 


· One of the conditions that 
must prevail in any annexation is 
that the annexation must be in 
the best interests of the city and 
the territory under considera­
tion. The area must also be 
contiguous with the boundaries 
of the city. 
The property of Notre Dame under consideration is bounded on the south by Angela Blvd., the east by Juniper Road, the north by Colfax Road, and the west by U.S. 31. This includes the parking lots and practice fields cast of Juniper Road. 
The SMC property affected is bounded on the south by Angela Blvd., on the west by St. Joseph's River, on the east by basis, or can submit his case to the Judicial Board for review; the board can then offer to the Dean of Students their thoughts on the punishment needed, which opinion the dean may 
either accept or reject. Quite a change from even ten years ago. 

RIVER PARK 
MISHAWAKA AVE. at 30th PHONE 288-8488 


~ma,:;: AROBERT WISE AI.M JUUE ANDREWS Alllll 


SIAIII 
RIDIARD CREJtNA ~ 
MICHAR CRAIG· DANIR MASSEY Siiii~_!· RiiERT WISE· Wiltwl FAIRCHILD iiiiii"laiiiiiii'i·--11·1111 
Fri. at 5:30, 8:40 Sat., Sun., at 2:30, 5:30, 8:40 Mon. thru Thurs. at 5:30, 8:20 


STARTS TODAY 
Times: Daily 7-9: I 5; Sat. 7-9:30 Sun. frQm I:00 with recommendation papers from a commanding officer. 

The experimental Judicial Board initiated this year also offers a service to the student in danger of suspension or dismis­sal. The student is able either to have the Dean of Students re­view his case on a more private 
U.S. 31, and o,n the north by a line north of the Indiana Toll Road. 
The total area proposed for annexation includes 1,110.5 acres of Notre Dame property and 747 acres of St. Mary's 
FIL.MS 
W.C. Fields Charlie Chaplin Laurel and Hardy 
Rm. 232 Moreau SMC Sat. 2:00 & 4:00 

SAVE! 
on New & Used Cars 1969 GTO 

400 cc H.D. 3sp., wide oval, radio, buckets, heater, custom interior. ........... $282.1 
1969 FIREBIRD 

350 cc, 3sp., wide ovals, radio, buckets, custom interior ... $2649 See DAN TUTKO (class of '67) at WELTER PONTIAC, 3:30 to closing 



BLACK ARTS FESTIVAL 
SCHEDULE OF ACTIVITIES 
March 21 -23, 1969 

FRIDAY 
SATURDAY 
-
-


SUNDAY 
Library Auditorium 8pm 

Jeff Donaldson "The Role of the Black Revolutionary Artist" 
Dining Room of Center for Continuing Education 4 -8pm Saturday 9-12am 
Fiesta Lounge 1 -3pm Ira Rogers Ronnie Sherman "Black Pipers to a Black Thing" 
James Jackson  
Library Auditorium  3pm  
Val Gray Eugene Perkins  Black Voices  ••alack  
Slgemona Wlmberll  Ramp On White"  
Library Auditorium  Spm  

David Llorens "The Relevance of Catholicism Toward Black Consciousness" 
Washington Hall Auditorium 8 pm L.eRol Jones ·~rojectlons for a Black Revolution" 
,....--------------------------------­
PAGES THE OBSERVER. FRIDAY, MARCH 21,1969 
····································································~ 
~ Tbe lnsh Eye 
'W <I By Terry O'Neil, sports editor 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUUIIIIIIIIIIJUIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIII 


Bengal picks 

Word has leaked that the Scholastic sports department will come out of hiding later today and predict winners of the 
• Bengal Bout finals. Therefore, in a blatant and undisguised attempt at one-up­manship, the Observer counters with its own analysis of tonight's fights. There will be 12 matches in all, 1 0 finals and two special battles arranged by tournament promoter Dominic "Nappy" Napolitano. 1 25 final: Ed Ferrer over Jack Griffin. In the tradition of fellow-Panemanians Isaac Logart and Ismael Languna, Ferrer is something of a "hot dog." ~ Griffin, with superior reach, can take advantage if Ed becomes overly careless. Ferrer, however, should have enough quickness and mobility to retain his title in a ~urprisingly close fight. 135 final: Paul P. Partyka over Ebby Moran. Bet next semester's tuition on this one. Partyka is a complete boxer. 140 consolation: Jim Lusk over Tom Kress. 14S final: Tom Suddes over Gary Canori. "Sudden Tom," who bowed in the semis last year to John McGrath, the eventual champ, should merit the crown tonight on a unanimous deci­sion. 150 final: Jim Hansen over Joe Judge. Judge fought a very heady fight Wednesday against Val Bernabo, but Hansen will be too strong and well-conditioned tonight. ISS final: Kent Casey over Steve Silva. This will be Silva's 
third bout in five days. Casey will have little trouble. 
160 final: Jed Ervin over Fred Deboe. This could be the eve­ning's shocker. Deboe, a lefty, probably could have KO'd Hal Smith Wednesday, but settled for a unanimous verdict. His unorthodox style may give the favored Ervin difficulty. 
165 final: Chris Servant over Dan Johndrow. Ouch, this is tight. Servant must stick to his own fight plan and not play Johndrow's slug-it-out game. If Chris stays away and forces Johndrow to chase him, he'll win. 
I 70 consolation: Tom Breen over Dave Sl).e.diker. 
175 final: Bill Etter over John McGrath. Both are tall and rangy; both have had two scraps already this week. Etter will circle to his left if McGrath allows him. John must cut off his foe-trap him along the ropes or make him move right (there­by reducing Etter's punching power when he does stop to throw some leather). Bill's stami­na and cleverness will make the difference. 
I 85 final: Matt Connelly over Tony Kluka. Kluka has gone only one and a half rounds so far. He drew a bye Monday and Wednesday his bout was stopped midway through the second round as Joe Renice packed it in with a bad shoulder. He won't be sharp enough to stop Connelly. 
Heavyweight final: Chuck Landolfi over Hank Meyer. Hank is not powerful enough to knock out Landolfi; few men are. And if it's a close decision, you have to figure the judges will lean towards Chuck, a senior and crowd favorite. Don't look for it to be close. 

Bucks' fans to pay Lew 
MILWAUKEE (UPI)-Bearded ing them eligible to draft first in Wes Pavalon, the millionaire the annual NBA pick of college board chairman of the Mil­talent. waukee Bucks, plans to use the The flip actually determined fans, if necessary, to win what which team would select first could be pro basketball's biggest and while Pavalon and John prize ever-7 foot 1 Lew Erickson, the Bucks' general Alcindor. manager, coyly denied there was 
"But I want to remind you, any one "name player" in mind, I'm one of the fans," Pavalon there was little doubt Alcindor said, making it perfectly obvious would be the man. that he's willing to shell out Erickson was scheduled to go more than a little of his money to Louisville, Ky., this weekend to get the UCLA star for the for the NCAA basketball finals. National Basketball Association. Alcindor and UCLA will be try­
The Bucks won the right to ing for a third successive NCAA negotiate for Alcindor Wednes­title there. day with a flip of the coin with Erickson said he would talk to Phoenix. The two teams had Alcindor and UCLA Coach John finished last in the NBA's East­Wooden, but not until after Sat­ern and Western divisions, mak-urday's finals. 





1Jt1ljUt11"" @il'l1l""ljl' 
StiU SeUs Europe's Finest Automobiles 

... while Jim Hansen jabs Aaron Baker. 
PEPPER'S IMPORTED CARS 
3105 W. Sample Street 
South Bend, lndmna 46619 
phone 289-7788 
.. 

Special price, for students on the 
poverty program, as most of us are. 

Pavalon was recently quoted as saying that if the Bucks won the rights to Alcindor, he had the resources of the entire state of Wisconsin to back him up in any bidding war with the Amer­ican Basketball Association. 
"The Milwaukee Bucks are owned by the citizens of the state. To get our first round draft choice, should that be Lew Alcindor or anybody else, we have ways of going to the citi­zens all over the state and asking them to support me." 
Did that then mean he would be asking the fans to pick up some of the estimated cost of landing Alcindor? 
"Possibly," Pavalon said. "But 
I just want to remind you that 
I'm one of those fans." 

Upsefs spice ice playoffs 
Second division teams won two of the three quarter final pairings as the ND interhall Hoc­key playoffs moved into the second round. 

First place Morrissey ad­vanced to the finals by drubbing bot to m-d we I I ing Cavanaugh. Fourth-place Zahm, a much im­proved team and a definite threat for the title, took its second straight game from Off Campus, by the score of 8--2. Fifth-place Farley completed the upset of runner-up Howard with a 2--1 overtime victory on Wed­nesday night. How11rd had tied the series with a 6--3 win last Monday night, but Dick Luebbe's goal with 2: IS gone in overtime vaulted the Collegians into the semifinals. 
Zahm and Farley will play a 2-of-3 series for the right to meet Morrissey in the finals. On orders from varsity coach Lefty Smith, the finals have been cut down from 4-of-7 to 2-of-3 









