THE WORLD TODAY 
Initial Defense Motions for Slrllan 
LOS ANGELES (UPI) -Sirhan B. Sirhan went on trial yesterday for the murder of Sen. Robert F. Kennedy and listened intently but without apparent anxiety as initial defense motions were denied by Superior Court Judge Herber V. Walker. 
The serious faced young defendant conferred in whispers with his attorneys but showed no emotion as the judge quickly rejected defense motions for a 30 day delay and to choose two juries-one for the verdict and one for the penalty. 
After a 90 minute session, Judge Walker adjourned the trial until 
2:00 pm today when he said he would hear arguments on two more defense motions both to quash the murder indictment against Sirhan. 
The trial opened under the tightest of security measures designed to protect the life of the defendant who could be sentenced to die in California's gas chamber if he is found guilty of first degree murder. 

Stennis Questions Defense Deputy 
WASIIINGTON (UP!)-Industrialist David Packard's plan to retain ownership of his stock in trust while serving as deputy defense secretary raises "a question of conflict of interest" which will be studied thoroughly, Sen. John C. Stennis, D Miss., said yesterday. 
Packard has proposed placing his $300 million worth of shares in his electronics firm, Hewlett Packard Co., of Palo Alto, Calif., in a special trust rather than selling them. All income and capital gains from the stock would go to educational or charitable organizations. 
The company did $94 million worth of business last year for the Defense Department or for other defense contractors. Stennis who is certain to become chairman of the Senate Armed Sc~vices Committee, probably will preside at Packard's nomination hearing next Tuesday. 

Comrnerclal8an•s Raise Interest Rate 
NEW YORK (UPI) -Commercial banks across the country yesterday boosted their prime rates-interest charged large and most credit-worthy customers ~ point to 7 percent, the highest on record. 
First National City Bank of New York led off the parade and 
<>thcr commercial banks across the country quickly followed suit. 
The advance depressed the stockmarket, already suffering from 
Monday's sharp setback. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 
15.32 Monday, its largest loss in over a year and a half, and another I0.94 yesterday. Commercial banks said the prime rate boost, the third in about a month, reflected an unprecedented demand for business loans. 
While the prime rate has no direct relationahip to personal loan 
rates, no one in the banking fraternity was willing to rule out an 
advance in this side of the money market in the ncar term. 
The sharp upward trend in money rates is part design. The Federal 
Reserve Board, for instance, wants money costs up to take the heat 
out of the economy by cutting credit financed expansion. Part of it 
is the consequence of heavy consumer demand for goods and 
services that is outstripping production. 
The usual consequence of this is inflation. The government tried 
cooling off the economy with last summer's income tax surcharge. 
When the results were not immediate enough, the Federal Reserve 
moved in and boosted the discount rate, that charged on loans by 
the 12 Federal Reserve banks to commercial banks, and also 
maintained the ceiling on the rate member banks are permitted to 
pay others for loanable deposits. 
The whole idea is to keep business from spending too much for expansion, and to keep the public from spending too much for goods and services, by making it too expensive for both of them. When everybody rushes the productioion machine at the same time, prices go up and the cost of production rises. 

Democratic Chairman O'Brien Resigns 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Lawrcnce F. O'Brien, a skilled political professional closely identified with both the Kennedy family and the Johnson administration, announced yesterday his resignation as Democratic national chairman. 
I lis resignation is effective when his successor is elected at the Democratic National Committee meeting Jan. 14. There was no immediate word on who would replace O'Brien. 
O'Brien's decision was disclosed in an exchange of letters with Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey, 1968 presidential nominee who chose him for the party chairmanship after the Democratic national convention. 
O'Brien wrote Humphrey that he had decided to accept an "outstanding opportunity" in private business and that an announcement of his plans would by made shortly. 
O'Brien said, however, that he would continue to involve himself in problems facing the nation and the Democratic party. Humphrey replied that they both wanted to make the party "a responsible and responsive instrument of social progress."' 
As did nearly all of his predecessors, O'Brien served without pay except for an expense allowance. He has told triends tnat he believes that the chairmanship should be a fulltime job with a salary comparable to the $50,000 paid to Cabinet members. 


Chance of snow flurries with winds SE at 12-25 mph. High today in the high 20's, low tonight in the mid 20's, snow depth at 16 inches, chances of measurable precipitation 60% today and 70% tonight. 

THE OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Community 
VOL. Ill, No. 65 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 1969 

SMC Starts Jubilee Celebration 
Robert Hutchins' speech "Civilization of the Dialogue" Monday night began a year long cc Iebration-125th anniversary of the founding of St. Mary's College. Publicity department information calls it "A grateful glance backward and a long hopeful look toward a future whose shape, because of ist promise, we can scarcely surmise." 
Hutchins' speech was the beginning of an ambitious celebration which will sec among other things, a lecture series unrivaled in the history of the college. Besides the education series that Hutchins was a part of, there will be a series on 
African Arts, Humanistic 
Studies, The World in 1844, 
Authority and Freedom, Russian 
History, Language, Symbol and 
Reality, the Time of Our Lives, 
and the Philosophy of History. 
Mortimer J. Adler will present a series of talks throughout the year, entitled "The Time of Our Lives". His first lecture is "How Can I Make a Good Life for Myself?" and will be Friday January 10 in the Little Theatre. Adler is the head of the Institute of Philosophical Research, University of Chicago. 
Lectures slated for January include Jaroslav Plikan on The Crisis of Authority in the Early Church; lhor Sevccnko, Byzantium and the Easter Slavs after 1453; and Seymour Halleck, on Student Values in a Changing World. 
The college has arranged for academic credit to be given through the Education and history departments for attendance at the lectures and at a series of seminars held in conjunction with the Anniversary series. Students in Secondary Education can receive 
two credits for attending 
Lectures in the Con temporary 
Educational Trends. Other 
students who sign up will be 
given one credit in the History 
Department. 

PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8. 1969 
Betty Doerr 

Catch 7 
I met a brick over Christmas vacation. I explained that "We" (the left) called people like him a fascist. He explained that "They" (the right) called people like me all sorts of names. He's in the Air Force. He should be part of the Military-Industrial Complex. But he doesn't have one, so he can't be. 
He joined up seven years ago. Gung-ho Air Force. He was going to change it all. He told me that he started out "sort of the way you kids did. I was throwing myself against a brick wall. But it didn't take me long to find out that the wall wouldn't come down. So I got tired, and after a while I became one of the bricks." Since he felt that way, my first thought was to ask him why he didn't try to change it all. Catch 7. 
Our ages were just far enough apart to cause a generation gap. After five hours we bridged it, or began to. He's in Air Force Communications and I'm in College Communications. That was a starting point. We talked about people's "failure to communicate". I told him that "We" wanted to save the country, that "We" felt that "They" were destroying it. He told me the same thing. We decideq that my generation should comminicate its e~\husiasm (constructive flaming) to his generation. His generation should communicate its 


WHOLESALE SEEN BY APPOINTMENT PHONE 287-1427 29271/2 MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND, IND. 46615 


tact ( constructuve non-flaming) to my generation. And we decided that both generations should shut up and listen. 
He introduced me to one of his friends on leave from Vietnam. This fascist was my age. Air Force Vietnam. Of course I assumed that he loves war. Drops napalm on babies for kicks. 
He thinks its a dirty little war. He went up on a flight and got shot down. After nine weeks in the hospital recovering from a shattered leg, he limped back to base. They told him to go up again and he said he didn't want to. So they sent him up again. He was supposed to get a medal after ten combat missions. They gave him the medal after one hundred missions, but added nine extra oak-leaf clusters. He said he didn't want their lousy medal, so they sent him up again. Catch I 00. 
They made me feel like a peace-creep. J still hate the war, but I'm beginning to think that everybody does. That's a disturbing thought. It means that the left doesn't have a monopoly on truth. It means that if the left thinks it has then just maybe it is partly to blame fo; the 
communications problem that is making progress impossible. It means that the left may have to join with the right to try to work out solutions together. And "We" call that selling out. · 
F lrst V lolence Since College Reopening 



Police Force Strikers From SFSC 
SAN FRANCISCO (UPI)-A hardcore band of striking students retreated from the San Francisco State College campus yesterday before a force of 300 riot police. One dissident leader was arrested. 
The 200 students, including leaders of militant minority groups, were forced from the campus when they refused to quit chanting strike slogans out­side the administration building. No one was injured in the police sweep. 
It was the first major con­frontation since the college was reopened Monday after a three week holiday and occurred as Gov. Ronald Reagan described California's educational system as being under attack by "crimi­nal anarchists and latter day 
Student Union In SB 
Chamber of Commerce 
fasj;ists." 
The governor labeled campus tn rest the state's chief problem a:ld vowed to use all his power to maintain "proper academic at nosphere." He called on the lcr~islature to move against cam­Pl'S "anarchy and insurrection." 
A small group f)f striking te:ichers, augmented by the mili­tant students began picketing the campus' main entrances for the second day in a row. When some of the teachers formed a line in front of the administra­tion building dissident students joined them with chants of "on strike, shut it down," "on strike, burn it down." 
".'he teachers dispersed when poI ice warned the growing pic.:et line was becoming an un­lawful rally. A teaching assistant, Richard Curtis, was arrested on charges of unlawful assembly in 

The Notre Dame Student Union is now a member of the South Bend Chamber of Commerce. As members, the Student Union will enjoy all the benefits which any other business organization belonging to the chamber enjoys. 
The Student Union always has had troubles in dealing with South Bend merchants and business establishments. The problem of securing. motel rooms for visitors of Notre Dame has especially been a problem. 
As members of the South Bend Chamber of Commerce, the Student Union hopes to establish a reputation in South Bend which will eventually rid the union of this problem. Upon suggestion by the chamber, the Student Union also plans to begin making motel reservations for events such as Fall Open Housing, Homecoming, Mardi Gras and Grand Prix four or five years in advance. These reservations will insure Notre Dame students of accomodations for parents or friends at the times of these 
the police sweep. 
The helmeted officers, with nightsticks at the ready position, mO"ed slowly across the campus in f>rcing the students to ref~rm in : picket line on the sidewalk bof''~ring the college. "Take it cas) , go slowly," sergeants said repc::tedly to their officers. 
l -·~arly 150 persons have been arrested since Negro students we:1~ on strike Nov. 6 over 
gri•' ·ances involving a black stll'' ics program, minorities en­roll :cnt and suspension of a RL<~ Panther English instructor. 
., n the San Francisco penin­sul: , the home of a former dean of ·--:ollcge of San Mateo was the tar:_;ct of firebombs during the nigi1t. But, the campus was pc::ceful under a police guard for tl:c second day. 
Air Transportation 

George E. Keck, president of United Air Lines, will speak this afternoon at 3: 15 in Rm. 122 Hayes Healy Center. His an­nounced topic is "Air Trans­portation's Significance to the Economy". The talk is spon­sored by the College of Business Administration's Executive Lecture Series. It is open to the public. 
YAF 

There will be a Y AF meeting tonight at 7:30 in Rm. 210 of the old business building. 
school functions. 
Another advantage which this membership offers to the Student Union is the freedom to display posters announcing school functions in various shopping areas downtown, and possibly to open new centers where tickets can be purchased for Notre Dame activities. 
In return for these benefits, 

the Student Union can offer to 
South Bend merchants the usc 
of such campus facilities as the 
IBM equipment and the campus 
press. 
Kick Rembusch, president of 

the Student Union, feels that 
this new membership is "in 
keeping with the purpose of the 
Student Union, which is to be a 
business-type organization." 
Rick feels this will show to the 
South Bend merchants that the 
Student Union is a responsible 
group with business 
understanding and ingenuity. 
The effects of this membership will not be readily apparent to the student. However, as members of the South Bend Chamber of Commerce come to recognize the Student Union as an effective and trustworthy business organization, the Student Union will have less of a problem in its dealings with other business firms in the South Bend area. 
YRs Chartered 
Over the Christmas vacation 

the Notre Dame Young Repub­
licans were officially charter~d 
as a member of the Indiana 
Federation of College Young 
Republicans. The charter, 
presented to NDYR Chairman 
Mike Kelly by Republican State 
Chairman Buena Chaney, is one 
of a series of steps which the 
club is taking according to Kelly 
"to break down the traditional 
isolation of the campus Young 
Republicans from local politics." 
"We :10pe to move the Young Republicans out of the realm of playing games on campus and into the realm of real politics," said Kelly. "With the fine con­racts and the good reputation that the club is establishing, we hope to sec wider participation for more students in the future." 
Mech. Engrs. 

At 7:00 this evening the Mechanical Engineering Dept. will hold freshman orientation for prospective majors. The orientation will be in the Heat Power Lab (over by Ave Maria) and will include discussions and a tour of the facilities. 
Philosophy Talk 

Prof. Albert W. Levi will give the second Perspectives in Phil­osophy lecture at 4:00 this afternoon, speaking on "Ph­ilosophy and its Social Anchor­age" in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Public invited. 
on the campus•••  wed. Jan. 8 








IT'S TIME!! 
IF YOU WANT TO TEACH A FREE UNIVERSITY COURSE 
SEND YOUR NAME AND A RESUME 
to: RICK LIBOWITZ 
c/o STUDENT GOVERNMENT FREE U.: AN UNEQUAL OPPORTUNITY 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 1969 PAGE 3 
THE OBSERVER 

Fellow Announcement To Be Made Priests Declare 
The Senior Class did not vote

discussions. A happy medium between formality and 
Charles Sheedy, chairman of 


Indepe n de n c e 
the Senior Class Fellow Award directly for the Fellow Award 
because of the confusion which

casualness will try to be reached 
Committee, ststed that the 
surrounded the availability of

by having speeches at designatedannouncement of the Senior 
the class's first choice in past

times and places with a certain NEWARK (UP!) -Twenty
Fellow would be made within survive as Christians unopposing 
informality." "The real 'activity' comes the next two weeks. 
The award is presented to someone who has contributed to 

through his milling with the the common good of the 
student body, especially the society. A Senior Fellow is one 
seniors, between the hours of who can contribute to the 
the structured schedule," intellectual and social life at 
Sheedy said. 

Notre Dame,, through vital Nominations were open for the Senior Class Fellow Award
discussion and by his presence on campus. 

last spring and this fall until October 20th. From these
The Senior Class Fellow will nominations, the selection
be on the campus two or three committee made the final
days to participate in a spontanious manner in Notre 
choice. The selection committee
Dame's social and intellectual consisted of representatives of
atmosphere. student govern men t, class
Sheedy stated, "The Senior government, and the news
F c Ilow, who will arrive in February or early March, will media, instead of a few select individuals of the class or
Ill eet with small groups of student government.
seniors at meals and class the group will show with "facts and stories" the archdiocese's "racist attitudes" and failure to "do much in the inner city." 


Prof. Bla"ey to Dame faculty, he was a special attorney in the organized crime
Subcomm. Post 
and racketeering section, 
G. Robert Blakey, a professor 

working with FBI, the Internal of law at Notre Dame, has been 
Revenue Service and other appointed to a Senate 
federal agencies conducting subcommittee post in 
racket investigations. He has also Washington. 
been a consultant to the Blakey will act as chief 
President's Commission on Riots counsel for the Senate 
and Civil Disturbances. Blakey subcommittee on criminal laws 
has made appearances before and procedure which is under 
congressional committees and the Committee on the Judiciary, 
has published in the field of headed by the chairman Senator 
criminal law and organized John L. McClellan, a Democrat 
crime. from Arkansas. The subcommittee will have Education Dean jurisdiction over the Nixon 

A£A Member 
administration's crime program Dr. Thomas P. Bergin, dean of and expects to receive next year continuing education at the
the Brown Commission report University of Notre
on reforming the federal penal Dame, has 
been chosen for membership onlaw. 
a newly formed commission of 
-

the Adult Education Association of the U.S.A., Washington, D.C. The title of the group is the 
Commission on Planning Adult 
Education Systems, Facilities and Environments and its chairman is Dr. Floyd Parker, 
assistant director of continuing education services at Michigan State's Kellogg Center. The commission's purpose will be to study the impact of social changes, technological innovations, and professional leadership upon adult education 
G. Robert Blakey in the 1970's and specifically 
The President's Commission upon the future design of for Law Enforcement anrl facilities for adult education. Ad ministration of 1 ustice engaged Blakey as a special Biology Chairman consultant on organized crime in Appointed 
1966-67. His work Jed to his drafting the section in the 1968 Dr. Paul P. Wcindtcin, chief of 
Omnibus Crime Control Bill on the laboratory of parasitic diseases for the National electronic surveillance Institutes of Health, has been 
Blakey, who has taught Notre 
II

at .------=-----------------=:...._---------'---1 
Dame since 1unc, 1964, received his A.B. from Notre Dame in 1957 and his LL.B. in 1960 from the Notre Dame Law School. Before joining the Notre 
Th" Observer Is published aaily duri_pg the college semester except vacations by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame. Sub.scrlptlons may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 
11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
years. 

priests in the Roman Catholic Sheedy remarked, "I hope the 
Archdiocese of Newark seniors realize that we are trying 
announced yesterday they arc to consolidate both the idea of 
"declaring independence" from an award and of an activity, 
Archbishop Thomas Boland's predominately stressing the idea 
"white racist attitude." of an activity." On the evening of the last The priests, who call day, a formal address and themselves the Inncrcity Priests presentation of the award will be United for Christian Action, said open to the entire student body they will hold a press conference and the public. tomorrow to "document the The Fellow Award, which is Newark archbishop's essentially in form similar to the Yale tacist, bigoted and apathetic" University's Chubb Fellowship attitude towards Negroes and Award, was approved last spring Puerto Ricans in the slums. by an overwhelming majority A spokesman for the 
1 

vote of the Junior Class in a archdiocese said Archbishop referendum. The Fellow Award Boland would make no replaces the Patriot of the Year comment. AwaJd-. 
The Rev. Francis E. Schiller, spokesman for the priests, said 
'We have survived riots, appointed professor and burnings, beatings, shootings," chairman of the Biology lhe priests said. "We cannot Department at Notre Dame. 
Weinstein received his doctorate from Johns Hopkins University's School of Hygiene and Public Health. He has been a staff member of the NIG's parasitic disease laboratory since 




CABERFAE 69 
1949, becoming acting chief in 1964 and chief two years later. His research interests lie in the area of physiology and 

Final Slgnups 
biochemistry of parasites. Dr. Robert Gordon, associate dean of the College of Science, noted that Weinstein's addition to the 


TONIGHT 
Notre Dame faculty 
"complements the important basic research carried on in the 

7:30118 Nleuwland
College of Science in 
parasitology rnocrobiology' and 
the biology of insect disease-carriers." 

8:00 232 " Moreau Hall (SMC)£fee. Eng. Head f£££ FellOW 

$15 Deposit Due 
Dr. Basil R. Myers, chairman of the department of electrical engineering at Notre Dame, has 1------------------------------.... 
been elected a fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers. He was cited for "outstanding contributions to circuit theory and distinguished leadership in engineering education and administration." Less than two per cent of the Institute's 160,000 members are fellows, and Myers is the only one from the South Bend area's 280 members. Myers, who holds a University of Illinois doctorate, worked at Bell Laboratories and taught at Illinois and the University of Waterloo in Canada before coming to Notre Dame in 1963. 


Craftsmen in Optics 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENS-ES THE SHEA LAND BLDG.--132 S. MICHIGAN ST.--CEntral 2-1468 
~ 
Ju 
~ ....., 11!'1!!11 0 r~r.,• A"M Jr,c, 
U~~ W· V.ll. 
Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.--Chicago 
contrived archdiqccsan apathy." 
The priests said that by declaring independence from Boland, they arc declaring the "primacy" of their "Christian allegiance." 
Schiller, who is curate at St. Patrick's Church in Jersey City, said the 20 priests have had experience working with the poor in the slums. 
"The priests collectively represent 64 man years in the innercity," he said. 
The priests said the archdiocese has evaded ''American and Christian obligations to 500,000 blacks" living mainly in the cities of 
Newark,  Jersey  City  and  
Plainfield.  
Schiller  said  he  has  no  idea  

what action Boland might take against his group. 
"We feel it is our church and belongs to everyone," said Schiller. 
-:hlcago Club and Junior Class 
present 


Windy City Banjo Band 
at 

Mishawaka C-C 
Banjos & Beer Blast 
Played at last Christ the King Party 
Jan_ 10 8:30-12:30 
Buses:  Circle  7:45  
8: J5  
SMC  8:00  
8:30  

PAGE4 THE OBSERVER WEDNESDAY JANUARY 
~~------------------------------~~~~~~~------------------~ 


A Different War Fought From Sweden 


by Joel Connelly 

First in a series of three articles on American deserters in Sweden. 
STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN -About three months ago, Ray Krzeminski, a petty officer on the aircraft carrier U.S.S. Wasp, took French leave in Germany and made his way to Sweden. Ray is one of more than 250 young Americans who, in protest against the Vietnam War and the U. S. military, have spoken 
their feet and escaped to the socialist and neutral nation of Northern Europe. Two days before ·Christmas, while vacationing in Europe, I interviewed 
Ray along with Rod Huth, a Marine deserter whose 
trip to Sweden started at Camp Pendelton in 
Southern California. 
The interview took place in a dingy office in 
downtown Stockholm, headquarters of the American 
Deserters Committee. More than twenty people were 
at work putting together a magazi,ne and a newspaper 
which are sold in Sweden but also smuggled into 
military bases throughout Europe: There was much 
talk of the giant peace demonstration in downtown 
Stockholm the night before in which more than 
3,000 people had made their way through the city, 
many carrying signs praising the National Liberation 
Front. 
Every deserter has a personal reason for taking the 

step. With Ray Krzeminski it was Chicago. 
quietly but forcefully, he explained "We 
up in the Arctic for a month. When we pulled 
Hamburg I saw pictures of the Chicago 

·~nuorot;~ of the people being beaten and maced. 
the repression I knew I could not fight any 
for the government which promoted it." 

Rod Huth took a good deal longer to explain his 
In fact, his decision was heavily influenced by Marines just back from Vietnam. He commented "I was against the war. I applied for a CO while in the Marine Corps. During this time I had been going to school at Camp Pendelton. I met Marines coming back from the War. I got another view. I was not looking through the eyes of the military. I was hearing the real story. This made me change my 
mind. Most of the Marines who were there realized the war was wrong." 
Both Krzeminski and Huth brought to light in their reasoning a fundamental difference between the deserters and the campus radicals of the U.S. Personal experiences assopposed to reading or hearing about things have had the greatest influence on those now 
in Sweden. Huth illustrated this factor of experience as he revealed his attitude towards the military. He stated "You never really know what the military is like until you have experienced some of its practices. I heard stories about Paris Island and I never really believed them until I saw what happens myself. When you fust get into the military there is an attempt to totally break you down mentally and physically so that you are so exhausted all of the time that your resistance is at a minimum." 
As the interview continued both men repeatedly used incidents happening to them while revealing their attitudes and reasoning. Huth casually mentioned the fascinating fact that a relatively small proportion of those in Sweden are college-educated. The deserters are thus anything but schoolboy radicals. Most come from working class backgrounds. The political awareness of many. seems to have evolved in the course of service in the armed forces. The combined factors of background and experience has stimulated an economic interpretat\on of the U.S. commitments abroad. 
Speaking of Vietnam, Krzeminski contended "I 
think we're involved in an economic war. We're we probably would accept an amnesty provided by the people of the United States, not a government propaganda effort." Rod added a footnote, commenting such an amnesty would come "only the people realize the war and the military are wrong." He remarked further "Many of us would not go back until there is a basic change in America, since many of us want to work politically." As the interview was about to end, while mentally searching for something further to delve into, I thought of the severe penalties the deserters would face if they were to return to the U.S. I carefully brought the subject up, expecting it to be a sensitive one. However, both Ray Krzeminski and Rod 
took almost a casual attitude towards the myriad punishments they would face were they home. Ray almost joked about the subject, "They've sent people around to talk to us. They will try to approach deserters on an individual basis. will promise you an easy deal if you say bad about Sweden when you return. However, a couple of guys found that when you get back to the United States you don't get two months, but rather three to five years." He added, still totally relaxed, "We hear one guy may be facing a treason charge." I thought then and there that it be quite difficult for anv deserter to be a coward! 
Tomorrow: What life in Sweden is like for American deserters. 
killing these brave people in Vietnam for no reason. We have no cause in Vietnam. Our cause is the dollar sign. War is good business." Huth quickly voiced his agreement with this statement, pointing to the $30 billion the government spent on the War last year as well as the size of many or" the contracts allocated for construction in Vietnam. 
Even as they denounced U.S. policies and expressed special scorn for the military, Krzeminski and Huth made clear their dedication to their country, even though they are part of a group which has made what is perhaps the ultimate decision to work outside the system. Ray remarked "I don't think any of us will become Swedish citizens. We are Americans. The American Deserters Committee exists so that we can continue to work politically as Americans even though we are here in Sweden, and also so that we can have a community of Americans here in Stockholm." 
What do the deserters think of the U.S. today? 
Stating a principle which underscores the reasoning of 
many, Huth stated "I think what happened in 
Chicago, for instance, shows what happens when you 
try to work within the American political system." 
Krzeminski added "You have to speak the language 
-
of those you are working with, and the United States 
government does not know the word 'peace"' 
With the opinions of Krzeminski and Huth, as well 
as what I read in some deserter literature, I was 
intrigued as to whether the deserters would choose to 
return today, even if given a chance. While making 
clear they would continue to consider themselves 
Americans, both had been stringent in their 
denunciations of U.S. institutions as well as 
government policies. Ray spoke first, saying "I think 

ND Legend Continues As Fencers Open Season 
That legend that began in the fieldhouse has now moved to the plush Athletic and Convocation Center but the results are still the same. The fencers are now 2-0 this season and they have all the traits of another outstanding team. 
For those who are not familiar with the ND fencing team, it is referred to as a legend because of its fabulous won-loss records over the years. A current string (over the past three years) has the Irish winning 40 out of their last 41 mat;;hes (20-1 last season). 
Coach Mike DeCicco calls this year's squad "an excellent team with tremendous experience." A glance at the roster is sufficient evidence of this. In foil (the lightest of the three weapons) there are three starting seniors. They are co-captain Lou Emerson, Rob Babineau and Chuck Ferral. Ample support is supplied by soph Glenn Kalin and junior John Lyons. In the epee (middle weight sword) class there are seniors Joe DePietro -and Art Dobson along with junior John Albright. Th~ reserves of this division are 
promising sophomores Hugh (Captain Zodiac) DePaolo and Rick Deladrier. The first string in saber class consists of seniors Paul McCandless and co-captain Bob Mendes and junior Rog Holzgraffe. The back-up men here are also second year men. They are Jim Galbraith, Doug Daher, and Mike Feeney. DeCicco states that the Irish have more experience at foil and saber. 
According to co-captain 

Mendes, this season's schedule 
should be tough with the big 
tests coming against powerful Wayne State (Detroit), and Big Ten teams Illinois, Wisconsin, and Ohio State. 
In case you are interested and plan to attend a match it would be helpful to know the procedure involved in conducting a match. There are 27 bouts in a match and 9 bouts in each of the three classes. Each team has three starting fencers in each class and they fence each opponent in their class. They receive a point for each "touch" or contact that they make with their opponent. The first man reaching five points wins his bout. The first team that wins 14 bouts wins the match. From all prospects it looks as though the Irish will reach that "magic 14" quite often this season. 





