
Here for their first appearance at Notre Dame, three members of the cast of th~ off-Broadway show Lady GodiJJa were caught off-guar~ _by OBSERVER_ ph?tographet John Wehrheim during a rehersal. This Theatre of the Rtdtculous presentatiOn IS a part ol 

_J!Qb Ill, No. 74 SerJJil';: the N('tre Dame and St. Jv.ory's College Community THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1969 
Soph Class debt revealed;
THE WORLD TODAY 
Quabas are $2200 in red 
Tom Olivieri, .Sophomore publicity cost approximately "The oldest people at the dance class treasurer, revealed $500. and the Shadows were seemed to be about fifteen."Castro not helping hdackers yesterday that the class had $1300. Barry Doyle, Soph. Class The mixer was a financial accrued a debt of about $2200. President, pointed out that an fa i I u r e; the CIa s s lost
WASIIJNGTON (UPJ) -Fide) Castro does nothing to lure He pointed out that this was not arrangement was made with the approximately $1500. on it. Thehijacked airliners to Cuba and may even be willing to help discourage unusual for any class and he local radio station and the night of the mixer, beingthe practice, a State Department official told Congress yesterday. 
Shadow's newest song "Shake" suspicious of the excuse madeFrank E. Loy, deputy assistant secretary of state, told the House cited the case of the sophomore class of two years ago that was to be in the top 5 by the by the Shadows, Doyle calledInterstate and Foreign Commerce Committee that the State 
announced a debt of $2000. as time of the mixer. WLS in Chicago and from themDepartment had made specific proposals to Castro for dealing with The Wednesday night before he discovered that the "sick"
the problem. He gave no details. an example. The majority of the debt was accumulated at a mixer the Mixer was to be held, Doyle Shadows of Knight were playing
But Loy said that if the hijackings to Cuba continue at the current that was held in the middle of received a call saying that the at one of their own night clubs,rate -nine U.S. airliners so far this year, out of II attempts-"the December. The rest of the debt Shadows of Knight could not the "Wildgoose" in Wakegan, Ill.
Cuban government may adopt measures of its own." Again, he 
declined to give specifics. was the result of operating costs perform at the mixer due to At this time the officers decided of the parties the sophomore sickness. The band that was that they would take legalNixon asks Senate to ratify treaty class had given during football substituted was the Ohio action. season. With the large number of Express. Doyle pointed out that Over the Christmas holidays
WASHINGTON (UPJ) -President Nixon asked the Senate groups that were giving parties the publicity for the mixer had contacts were made in Newyesterday in the interest of "negotiation rather than confrontation" no one made money on them. been geared to the older high York and Cleveland and Chicagowith the Soviet Union, for prompt ratification of the treaty to halt T 0 recoup from these school and the local college as the case was established.
the spread of nuclear weapons. 
setbacks, the mixer, designed students. He went on to say that Doyle pointed out that it wasSenate leaders of both parties predicted that the word from Nixon strictly for the town high school the Ohio Express appealed only very difficult to sue a band butin a special message was all that was necessary to free the treaty for students, was planned for the to the younger high school and he stated that at present a letterapproval-probably early in March--after months of inaction 14th of December. The band to junior, high stude~ts who written by himself and theresulting from indignation over the Soviet led invasion of be featured at the mixer was the ~ould~! a.fford the pnce to. get continued on page 6Czechoslovakia last August. 
"Shadows of Knight." Pre-mixer 111. OliVIen was quoted as saymg:
Nixon said during the election campaign that while he favored the nuclear nonproliferation treaty, he opposed its ratification by the 
Restructuring proposal accepted
Senate "as long as Soviet troops are on Czech soil." Yesterday, even though this condition had not been met, Nixon The St. Mary's Student Af­"All legislation resulting in the that the membership of the Stu­said his request "in no sense alters my condemnation of that Soviet fairs Committee yesterday Student Affairs Committee dent Affairs Committee be set ataction." Rather, he said, "I believe that ratification of the treaty at 
accepted a recommendation to should automatically be sent to 16 members and that the ratiothis time would advance this administration's policy of negotiation restructure the Student Affairs the Student Affairs Council with be set at 8 student, 5 faculty,rather than confrontation with the USSR." 
areas of the Community Gov­the stipulation that acceptance and 3 administration members. ernment. The recommendation will be assumed and effected if The recommendation con­Blacks wreck gheffD aid office stemmed from problems re­such legislation is not vetoed 
cludrs with the resolution that garding jurisdiction and the within two weeks of classes after 
all studen'ts, faculty, and ad-NEW YORK (UPI)-Negro students at Queens College Wednesday source of legislative authority. the Council receives it." The
wrecked the office of a ghetto aid program which they have vowed continued on page 6
Co-sponsor of the re­recommendation also suggeststo take over, and 80 black and Puerto Rican students occupied 
commendation, Beth Driscoll,
another campus building. •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
stated, "Until now the Student 
: Ralph Ginsberg :
Officials of the 20,000 student college said the invaders 
Affairs Committee functioned as 
apparently were members of the Seek program, which has made it :on the inside ... :
a subordinate committee to the
possible for underpriviliged youth who could not ordinarily qualify 
Student Affairs Council. The re­• 
as students to enroll at Queens. Seek students forced the resignation commendation serves to clarify •• •• Tuesday of program director Joseph P. Mulholland to whom they : -Ginsberg opens Porno-:
both of these questions."
objected because he was white. 
The recommendation states : graphy and Censorship ~ that the Student Affairs area of : Conference, p. 2
Troop wfthdrawl still an Issue 
the Community Government • PARIS (UPI) -The Viet Cong will stand fast on its demand for should be composed of student, • withdrawal of U.S. troops from South Vietnam as an initial step faculty, and administration : -Kelly appointed Judicial 
• 2
toward achieving a peace settlement, a ranking spokesman said members, and the Student Af­Coordinator, p. yesterday. His statement added to expectations that the peace talks fairs Committee should be the would be deadlocked in the third full negotiating session, scheduled legislative body in the area of 
-New Columnist Kay Markle
for this morning. Student Affairs within Com­
probes life at SMC, p. 4
The spokesman for the Viet Cong*s National Liberation Front munity Government. NLF said troop withdrawal would remain a priority item on the The recommendation also Communist list of demands even if President Nixon unveiled new states that since most legislative 
-Chicago Symphony in 
policies during a visit here later this month. The spokesman said it structures function on a check 
South Bend tomorrow, p.S
was unlikely that the chief of the NLF delegation, Tran Buu Kiem, and balance system, so should would meet with Nixon. the Community Government. 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1969
PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER 
at pornography kick -off 





Overflow crowd hears Ginsberg chant, recite 
Last night Allen Ginsberg of­ficially opened the Pornography and Censorship Conference of the Student Union Academic Commission before a full house in Washington Hall, while many students were forced to remain  Allen was joined by another poet in chanting a song to the god Sheba, after which he began reading poetry from his new work Planet News. Allen ex­plained "I didn't come prepared for the Pornography and Censor­ particular reading ability held the audience for nearly two hours of listening, with but one break after which he again played on an instrument much like a hand-organ and again sang a chant. A short standing ap­ plause concluded the evening. Mr. Ginsberg's poetry will be discussed today at 4:00 PM in the Library Auditorium in an open discussion with Mr. Ginsberg, J.J. Clancy and Professor Petters. The discussion  
outside  because of the overfow  ship Conference. The occasion is  
crowd.  scary then, for all of us." So he  
SUAC  head  John  Mroz  proceeded, not to lecture, but to  
opened  the six day lecture and  read selection from his published  
discussion series with the nature  works.  Mr.  Ginsberg  pleaded  
of  the  conference's ,.IDtent.  He  with the audience to accept his  
noted  that  the  series  is  not  poetry not as a  message of sex­ 
meant  as  a  shoddy display of  uality but as a revelation of his  
films, and  was  hopeful that the  inner self. He explained that he  
"students  will  show  what  we  had selected his readings so as to  
consider to be Notre Dame mat­ be  relevent  for  a  conference  
urity."  Mroz  also  mentioned  dealing  with  pornograply  and  
that  it  is highly probable  that  censorship.  
the rights to the proceedings of  Most  of  Allen  Ginsberg's  
the  conference  will  be  bought  poetry  dealt  with  topics other  
and  published  in  paperback  than  sex-with  politics,  child­ 
form.  He said that this possibil­ hood,  solitude,  life  itself.  His  
ity  depends  on  the  interest  poems, read in chronological or­ 
which·-the students show in the  der,  wandered  from  scenes  in  
discussion sessions, and the  ser­ New  York  streets  to  still-life  
ious  manner in which they con­ portraits of desolate Kansas and  
sider the conference.  Nebraska  highways.  Ginsberg's  

Kelly replaces Rigney as Judicial Coordinator 
is open to the public with free 
admission. Concurrently with 
this discussion Andrew Noren's 
premier film, George Kucher's 
"Hold Me While I'm Naked" and 
Carolee Schneeman's "Fuses"' 
will be shown in the Center for 
Continuing Education Audi-· 
torium for those with Delegate 
Passes. 
Also this afternoon an erotic 
Art Exhibit will be displayed in 
the second floor ballroom of La 
Fortune Student Center from 
2:00 PM until 6:00 PM. Numer­ous paintings of great value have been secured for this exhibit from Los Angeles to New York art centers. Delegates will again be admitted without charge, while all other students will be charged $.50, adults $1.00. 
Concluding today's pres-­entations will be an off -Broadway show "Lady Godiva." The show will be pre-­sented in Washington Hall at 
8:00 PM in the form of th<: Theatre of the Ridiculous. Dele-­gates will be admitted free, other students $2.00, and all others $3.00. Seating will be on a first come basis. 
Dave Kelly, a jumor who descrobed by Vice-President When asked what his program has spent three years on the Chuck Nau as "officiaL" will be as the new Judicial Campus Judicial Board, . will' Kelly took no definite stand Coordinator, Kelly said that he 
succeed Bob Rigney as Judicial on the firing of Rigney, pointing would continue the basic ideas Coordinator. Although SBP out that he is a friend of Rigney of Rigney's term, . mentioning Rossie was not available for but that "if he wasn't doing the specifically the realization of a comment, the nomination was job, he wasn't doing the job." workshop for the Legal Aid 

Grinnell students strip while Playboy watches 
GRINNELL, Iowa (UPI) -men and four men-filed into The demonstrators said they Ten Grinnell College students, the meeting where some 75 per­were members of the Grinnell protesting Playboy Magazine's sons were listening to Draper women's liberation group and "images of lapdog female play­explain the "Playboy phil­guerilla theater. Both groups,are things,~' disrobed Wednesday osophy." They handed out lit­new on campus this school vear. 
during a speech by a Playboy erature and then disrobed com­The theater organization is 
representative. pletely, while questioning best known for its sponsorship
The I 0 students-six wo-about the magazine and singing. of a male homecoming queen. 
Society. 

Regarding the trial of Marty McNamara by the Judicial Board, Kelly said he would leave the handling of the case to Rigney, who, according to Kelly, 
"has handled it all along. He is much more familiar with this case than I am." 
Kelly pointed out that his position as Judicial Coordinator will be subject to the con­firmation of the Student Senate. 
SMC UNO 
Dance 
Captain  Electric  
Fri.  Feb.  7  
9-12  $2.00  

Edison Light 
Edi~on & Ironwood 1 mile E. of Notre Dame 



Students For Ireland 
Two exciting thrift tours of Ireland especially organized for young men and women from different colleges and universities. Dunmore Caravans, Ireland, has arranged the following: First tour-14 days economy from New York return, for $339.95 all inclusive (May 22nd to June 5th) Second tour-21 days from New York return, $389.50 (June 6th to June 27th). 
Included. Plane fare; meals; sleeping accomodations; bus transportation; historical tours; dances; football game; medieval banquet; all tips; airport taxes; ticket to famed Abbey Theatre or qne of Dublin's night spots. Free 18-hole golf and free sea and trout fishing. 
For brochures, etc., write our personal agent in the U.S.A., Mr. B. A. Gallagher, Box D-81, White Sulphur Springs, W.Va., 24986 or Irish Tourist Board, 590 5th Ave., New York, N.Y. 
ACCOUNTING, MATH AND ENGINEERING GRADUATES FOR SYSTEMS, PRODUCTION, RESEARCH, INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING, TESTING ENGINEERING, FIELD ENGINEERING, DESIGN AND SALES 
The Inland Steel Company, East CHicago, Indiana, invites you to investigate our many career opportunities. Consult the specific job descriptions in the pocket of our brochure. Our representatives will be on your campus on 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1969 

INLAND STEEL COMPANY 
INDIANA HABBOR WORXS EAST CHICAGO. INDIANA 
0 

General Offices Chicago, Ill. Jos. T. Ryerson & Son Chicago, Ill. 
We are an Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans for Progress Program Meetings: 

Co-Ex Course: Music Organization 
1 Credit 
UNIVERSITY CHOIR WELCOMES NEW MEMBERS 
7:20 P.M. Wednesdays. Sacrist of Sacred He 


~~ 
+-''0 
c 
-~ 
)iim 
>
c 
OC/l 
u~ 
• 0 
.!: 
Q) 
Ol 
c 
:::J'<~'
oN 
==VJ
me 
+-'o
..;.(.,_ 
U+-' 
oro 
u 2: 3l 
'OQ) 
C'-­Cll 
Q)'O 
OlC 
-om 
0 
• Ol 
....,c
C·­
mt
'--o 
:::Ja. 
~~ 
~ 




Diow 
YOUR 
DATE! In the heart of the Manistee National For­est, off M-55 West of Cadillac, Michigan. 
~~ABUFAE 
CADILLAC, MICHIGAr-1 

rhe Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box l~s~.f.tre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind.. 


Dear Mr. DeYoung: 
The urban blight, because of its concomitant insurgency of the city dweller, has finally been thrust before the all-too-unwilling eyes of the American public. Studies indicate that to alleviate the problem, we should spend many billions on our cities within the next decade. The problem grows worse daily; however, business resists government intervention and control. 
Our skies are filthy with smog, smoke, soot, and stench; yet only legislation could force industry to place antipollution devices on its automotive products and the same seems true for its smokestacks. Our rivers are already fetid conduits; yet, for purely economic ·reasons, industry continues to dump its noxious by-products into public waters rather than otherwise dispose of them. Our cities are a snarl of transportation congestion, yet business solves that problem by merely running away to develop new branches in unaffected areas. Our urban housing is often unfit for habitation ; yet, rather than redevelop close-in housing and recreation for its employees and potential customers, business does nothing until government urban renewal takes charge-then business complains of waste, graft, inefficiency, and intrusion upon free enterprise. 
What evidence of civic responsibility extending beyond the stockholder does business show? When will business relinquish its myopic view of "PROFIT NOWI" in favor of long-term benefits? Can you, as a businessman, feel proud of business' record on these important issues? 
Yours truly,~a-vl~;J~ _ 
Mark Bookspan 
Pre-Med. Ohio State 
IS ANYBODY LISTENING TO CAMPUS VIEWS7 
BUSINESSMEN ARE. 

Three chief executive officers-The Goodyear 

Tire & Rubber Company's Chairman, Russell DeYoung, The Dow Chemical Company's President. H. D. Doan. and Motorola's Chairman. Robert W. Galvin-are responding to serious questions and viewpoints posed by students about business and its role in our changing society . . . and from their perspective as heads of major corporations are exchanging 
Dear Mr. Bookspan: 
Unquestionably our central cities are faced with the explosive pressures being built by the interacting ills of slum housing, relative poverty, hard-core unemployment. traffic con­gestion, air and water pollution. These are not new problems. but the urgent demand for solution is underscored by the many episodes of readily-triggered violence now so commonly seen. 
Yet paradoxically, as these crises worsened, our overall economy has witnessed unparalleled productivity. higher employment, and better living standards for the larger majority of our population than ever in history. 
In turn, this has precipitated a trek to suburbia of such proportion that many downtown residential areas have been virtually abandoned to a highly explosive, usually non-white, residual population. 
There are no pat solutions to these problems. Consider for a moment the magnitude of the efforts during the past thirty years relative to urban renewal. public housing, and the war on poverty. The results have fallen far short of the expectations voiced by those who advocated massive public spending and the multiplication of additional govern­mental agency programming. In this context, I think it is not an exaggeration to say that the defining of goals for the community, and the determination of the means for their achievement, was regarded strictly as governmental pre­rogative and strictly outside of business' purview. 
Yet there is now an increasingly vocal ground swell that private industry somehow holds the key to solving the more pressing urban problems-if only its attention can be diverted from its "blind pursuit of profits," and its social conscience awakened. 
As Kenneth Clark, the well-known Negro psychologist. has said: "Business and industry are our last hopes because they are the most realistic elements of our society." 
To assess the collective activities of business throughout the nation, in developing and implementing practicable solutions for varying aspects of urban problems, is manifestly impossible. But let me mention a number of typical examples in the field of air and water pollution. 
The auto, steel, oil, rubber. lumber. paper. and chemical industries, to name a few, have expended literally billions of dollars in applied research and in the installation of mechanical apparatus for the appreciable reduction of smog, noxious fumes. dust, silt, and other air and water pollutants. Examples: the steel industry in the Chicago area has eliminated 27,000 tons of the 88.000 tons of particulate matter that accumulates annually to aggravate the city's air problem •.. Chrysler, Ford and General Motors have programs ranging from the control of fumes given off in painting auto bodies. and water pollutants from chromeplating processes. to dust 
views through means of a campus/corporate Dialogue Program on specific issues raised by leading student spokesmen. 
Here, Mark Bookspan. an Ohio State Chemistry major, who plans a medical career, is exploring issues with Mr. DeYoung. 
In the course of the full Dialogue Program, 
David G. Clark, a Master of Arts candidate at Stanford University, also will explore issues 
with Mr. DeYoung, as will David M. Butler, 
Electrical Engineering, Michigan State, and 
Stan Chess, Journalism. Cornell, with Mr. 
collectors at foundries, to intense research for economically practical auto exhaust controls ... Crown Zellerbach has developed means to eliminate 90 per cent of the solids and 98 per cent of the hydrogen sulphide from gases leaving its kraft mills ... 
Dow Chemical has instituted various successful methods to reduce water pollution from industrial plant wastes, and to reclaim certain types of ponds and natural streams ... In Goodyear, installa­tion of a $750,000 waste water treatment system at our facilities in Gadsden, Alabama. assures purification of millions of gallons daily before return to the Coosa River. Moreover, air and water pollution control equipment is being installed in some eight other plants, while all new facilities under construction, or those recently built, have such controls in their specifications. All of this has been done voluntarily. Does this action bespeak of "Profits Now," as you suggest? 
But industry isn't the only source of air 
and water pollution, much needs to be 
done in the areas of public and private 
housing, sewage control, and garbage 
disposal-just to name a few. 
Slum housing, hard-core unemployment, 
education. and traffic congesf:ion also are 
the focus of direct business involvement. 
In short. business is responding to the 
challenge of the times by channtling some 
of its capabilities directly to public sector 
requirements. Westinghouse, alone, is 
spending millions in this area and the list 
of others is considerable. 
Business' success in such programs results solely from capabilities which have been perfected through the disciplines of our free enterprise system. Business' real forte lies in its effective meeting of customer needs and demands by the translation of creative research. production abilities, and resources through managerial skills under the incentive of profit-making. The profits generated as a result of this process provide the underpinnings of our entire economy. 
In other words, business is in business to make a profit. It is only through the accrual of profits that funds are available for all social improvement programs, whether originated by the public sector, or at the instance of business' own initiative, or jointly with government. 
A thorough appraisal of the record, there­fore. will reveal that the nation's business community--both on its own and in concert with government-is developing, underwriting, and implementing, viable efforts to solve the problems which you rightfully say demand attention. In terms of responsiveness to these needs and increasingly effective solutions, I think a noteworthy record is in the making, with expenditures ranging in the billions. Without profits. this money would not be available for these programs. which offer no monetary return to industry whatsoever. 
sincerely.~ UL.rt 
Russell DeYoung. Chairman. The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company 
Doan; similarly, Arthur M. Klebanoff. Government. Yale, and Arnold Shelby, Latin American Studies. Tulane, with Mr. Galvin. 
These Dialogues will appear in this publication, and other campus newspapers across the country, throughout this academic year. Campus comments are invited, and should be forwarded to Mr. DeYoung. Goodyear, Akron, Ohio; Mr. Doan, Dow Chemical, Midland, Michigan; or Mr. Galvin, Motorola, Franklin Park, Illinois, as appropriate. 

r 
PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER 

THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
WILLIAM LUKING. Editor-in-Chief 
Mary Michael Farnum, Senior Editor Paul Schroeder, Executive Editor Don Holliday, Managing Editor 
Betty Doerr, Chris Wolfe, Michael Patrick O'Connor, Don Hynes, Tom Ehrbar, Bill Mitchell, Tim O'Mella, Guy DeSaplo Associate Editors Ted Price, News Editor David Stauffer, Copy Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 
Theology reform needed 
'Notre Dame is Catholic. There arc those among us who prefer a big C; others like a little one. Jacqueline Grennan, the gone by the lay-side ex-nun who presides over Webster College, insists that Catholic universities are an awful lot like square circles. Father Hesburgh is just as adamant in his striving to make Notre Dame "a great university." 
What Theology department chairman Father James Burtchaell proposes to make of the 9,000 hours his department teaches each semester has much to do with the development of Notre Dame as a university. We happen to think that these theology curriculum reforms are equally important to the development of Notre Dame as a Catholic university. 
Father BurtchaeU sees his task of "forcing values on no one, but exposing students to a tradition which the University is publicly committed to, confident that only through rigorotJS academic discipline will students be able to evaluate that tradition and, if they choose, carry it forward." 
Those who insist that there just isn't any such thing as a Catholic University reject Father Burtchaell's thesis. If a university is publicly committed to a religious tradition, they argue, how can it possibly permit (let alone encourage) its students to question this tradition and ultimately be given the intellectual opportunity to reject it? 
For too long a time Notre Dame has 
Shuttle Bus falters 
It's a long cold walk from Notre Dame to St. Mary's. That's why the Shuttle Bus service was initiated, and for the past two years it has serviced the wheeless students of both campuses. Unfortunately, these travellers may soon be back on their feet unless certain measures are taken. 
Aside from the vandalism, the major problem facing the shuttle system is over­crowding. The bus supposedly seats thirty­-six, with a maximum capacity of fifty. Yet, some claim that as many as one hundred and twenty bodies have crammed themselves into the "Blue Bomb". Even with a modest eighty or ninety passengers there is bound to be trouble. 
Obviously this type of service generates dissatisfaction and frustration among its riders. More important, the sheer increase in poundage can cause undue strain on the vehicle and lead to mechanical failure. Such breakdowns have occured in the past and will be repeated unless some improvements are made. 
It would be nice if the load could be strictly enforced. Unfortunately, such a solution is impractical. In the past when a driver has tried to limit the number of 
passengers, he has been threatened by impatient students from both sides of the road. We can in no way condone such immature actions, yet to force some to wait in the cold shows a definite lack in the service. 
We hope that the Student Union Student Services Commission is studying ways of improving the shuttle system for next year. However, something must be done to allev­
iate the present problem_ We propose that 
the old shuttle bus be reactivated for the 
rush hours. Specifically, during the early and late hours of the evening. 
Reactivating the -old bus should reduce the overcrowding and consequently the frustration and aggravation. Nevertheless, if such actions do not eliminate the threats of 
violence against the drivers then evening ,seem to be cranked by hand out of something like the rnachme that service should be disconintucd. dispenses Dairy Queens. The Shuttle Bus service has come a long Wha~ S_t. Mary's needs--what every college or university needs way in the past few years. We would hate w~en Jt IS predominantly anything--are some distinctly different mmds. The only problem is, would any distinctly different minds 
to sec it falter now. want to come here? 
lived with the very contradiction these 
critics insist is inescapable. 
Theology at Notre Dame in the past has been an attempt to sell and to inculcate religion, or better yet Roman Catholicism or Notre Dame's particular brand of Catholicism. What we believe Father Burtchaell is trying to do is finally take the Baltimore Catechism out of collegiate theology. 
The necessity and validity of a theology requirement is another question for another day, like tomorrow. 
Since, however, the requirement remains, we applaud the effort to remove the bunk, the banality, of the ~resent theology courses and to eliminate the silly threats (usually ranging from neighborhood to eternal banishment), see through gimmicks (twelve hour requirements), and pointless promises (memorize this doctrine and you'll be the best, if not the first, apologist on your block). 
In the place of catechetics, Notre Dame students will be offered good theology courses. They may even like them. 
More than improved courses, however, improvements like Father Burtchaell's ­encouraging in both rationale and feasible specifics -have what it just might take to start this Catholic school on its way toward becoming a university. Until that start, we suggest a moratorium on rhetoric chasing greatness. 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1969 

Look. t.jOU oiJ &row , ya I.M3na have. 1o f'ull ~our-~ody +o'1ether-w1th a _f i ~ h ne-1-?~ so mak:g room •oo 
-
~ 

0~ 
C?8 ~ ~ -~~o~-., U) . ..lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 111111~111111111111~ 
~Kay MarkleKay Markle, a junior at Saint~ : Mary's, is making her debut: E B•t h• ' in issue an:
this as : I C ID OBSER VHR columnist. E. 
-

The girls who are there bitch about the place aimlessly, scrawl a few nasty words on the less noticed walls, curse it, the weather, Notre Dame, home and the American government. Possibly it is obsolete. Definitely it is a hothouse of in loco parentis residue which 
· makes for much beaurocratic messiness. The jock corps, so much like Notre Dame's that it defies differentiation on any but a biological basis, is pretty much in control and likes it that way. The intellectuals eat alone, depress themselves a lot and withdraw. The flower children smile and withdraw. Hardly anyone leaves. By the time you've been there long enough to find out where the library is, the pitfalls of the health service and what time they serve meals, it is too hard to go away and start all over, so nobody does. Even five years ago, life could be pretty grim; now that you can smoke at meals and stay away from the dorm for weeks, things are almost as congenial as the sunny vocabulary of the bulletin would have you believe. There isn't any maid service, but the food is good and you get clean sheets once a week. 
The girls all wear labels:DOCILE TO THE POINT AT WHICH IT APPEARS SHE WILL BE MADE TO DO SOMETHING. At this stage, the tag reads, certain levers in their heads click shut the sluices and they become as obdurately apathetic as sheep. This is not tlle fault of the college, although everybody finds comfort in believing that it is, like some insidious kind of mass poisoning that eventually gets the whole mob. 
This peculiar form of mental rot actually set in during high school, maybe grammar school, where little girls learned to be obedient, sweet-tempered, dull and cute so that people would like 
them. St. Mary's does not, as a friend of mine claimed, turn girls into cattle: it gets them that way and pens them up, unavoidably, with so many others of the same kind that it reinforces their habits. Given 
enough time--a lone semester is enough--the entire freshman class can be culled to display an admirable collection of girls who dress the same way, read the same magazines and clutch their cigarettes in the identical prescribed manner. Anyone watching with detachment (perhaps cynicism is a better term) would testify that they had, yes truly, witnessed a tribal initiation ceremony in which young girls were effortlessly transformed into old girls, thus fitting neatly into contemporary American society. 
SMC cannot knock the formed concrete out of anyone's head 
(neither can Notre Dame, but they don't know it yet) because it possesses nothing of style that the only thing you can acquire from a dormitory-ruled, self-contained "intellectual community." And if style can be functionally defined as the creation of harmony from diversity, it is beautifully clear that a society lacking diversity is ?oi~g t? be lacking style, and lacking style deprives a person, or an mshtut10n, of criteria essential for making judgments. And without value judgments you get a morass of undifferentiated, half-accepted, half-rejected opinions, so similar in origin and content that they 
Chicago Symphony hits South Bend 
By J. Patrick OowdaU 
The Chicago Symphony Concert this Friday night will be the opening performance of the 1969 Notre Dame Contemporary Arts Festival. This performance marks the first appearance of a majot symphony in the Notre Dame-South Bend area in many years. 
Friday night's concert should be interesting for several reasons. The new Athletic and Convocation unfortunately is not performed enough. 
Stravinsky' flirebird Suite has thrilled audiences since it was first played in 1911. This piece composed about the same time as two other Stravinsky fav­orites, Petrouscha and The Rite of Spring(known as his Dynamism period.) When the latter was premiered in Paris, a riot broke out because of the audacity and 
violent uniqueness of the work. The Firebird Suite is
Center will host a major symphonic orchestra for the 
a synopsis of the ballet by the same name. The ballet
first time. Many have questioned conerning the 



I ~~~J~j~ I ~ ~ 




acoustics of the large and spacious building. All previous tests (the Andy Williams concert, the South Bend lfigh School Festival, and informal ones) have indicated that they will be very favorable; such favorable results could add significantly to the scope of activities that could be presented in the ACC. Conceivably, major operas and dance companies could perform there, as well as other major sym­phonies. 
The concert will also be interesting because of the excellent program; three very exciting and stimulating pieces will be played. The program will only represent twentieth century composers-a type of program that was adapte<l from a Russian fairy tale. Many parts of this dynamic piece suggest oriental and magical 
themes. 
Stravinsky has often been compared with the noted artist Pablo Picasso. Both have relatively dominated their respective art in the twentieth century, and both have changed their styles quite frequently. Stravinsky has done much ex­perimentation with classical forms; some of his works 
arc patterned after sixteenth and seventeenth century works (including Masses). Such works are is sharp contrast with the primitivism of the Firebird. 
Corigliano's Concerto for Piano is a Chicago Symphony premiere. This work has been played only once before for the HemisFair last April by the San Antonio Symphony. Corigliano is a young composer 
(b. 1938) who is considered one of the more promising American composers. His published works 
already number nearly a dozen. llis Piano Concerto is a work that has been described as "a piece for steel-fingered pianists who can make the 88 keys roar." It is a work of intense emotion and "surging vitality;" it demands much from a pianist, for it changes mctrics frequently and features several piano rolls. Sheldon Shkolnik is a young pianist capable of handling such a difficult work. lie first appeared with the Chicago Symphony at the age of 19. His interest in unusual works has led to performances of some outstanding and rarely heard works. 
Prokofieff called his Fifth Symphony "a sym­phony about the spirit if man." The work is a culmination of fifteen years of musical experimc.otac tion adn growth by the Russian composer. The F iftil ,. Symphony is distinct from some of Prokofieff's ~rlier works in that it is more lyrical. Completed within the period of one month during the summer of 1944, this piece prpresented a triumph for Prokofieff. He answered those critics who said that he was incapable of composing without reference to drama­tic plots and pictorial images. This philosophical work was a success in pure musical ways. 
An interesting note about this work is that the final chords of the work were sounded just as cannons opened fire saluting the Soviet's victorious crossing of the Vistula. The coincidence seems ap­propriate, for many of Prokofieff's works during World War II were preoccupied with war themes. 
Montoya 

Carlos Montoya, the master of flamenco guitar, will be presented by the St. Mary's College Performing Arts Series at 8 p.m. tonight in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
111111111111111111111111111111111111 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Student actors troupe across U.S
By John Sheehan • 
Latest in the many activities of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Co-Operative Department of Speech and Drama, is the Traveling Players, consisting of students from both schools. This national touring company has been formed to celebrate the 125th Anniversary Celebration of the founding of Saint Mary's College. Be­tween now and Junc they will travel in some 22 states, performing for St. Mary's alumnae groups, high schools and friends of the college. Next September, a new company will be formed that will tour until December. 
The first venture this season was made over the semester break, when the group traveled to Peoria, Illinois. During the coming week-ends and vacation periods, they arc tentatively scheduled to perform in Detroit, Toledo, Cleveland, Kalamazoo, Grand Rapids, Boston, Youngstown, Chica~o. New York, Washington, Louisville, Indianapolis and Crossville, Tennessee. 
The touring company is composed of seven senior students from ND and SMC. They perform the play A Company of Wayward Saints, by <icorgc IIerman, first produced at the Tyrone Guthrie Theatre in Minneapolis and winner of the McKnight Playwrighting Award. The play is a comedy about a group of actors who practice the ancient art of commcdia del/'arte. 
Com media dell 'arte was the most pop­ularc genre of Italian Comedy during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. (;roups of specially trained actors im­provised plays from basic themes or outlines involving familiar stock char­acters. Each mcmhcr of the troupe spec­ialized in playing one of these characters. The acting troupe travelled widely, play­ing in formal theatres, on platforms in market places, or in the homes of noblemen. They went everywhere and performed anywhere much like the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Company. 
In The CtllnfWIIY of Wayward Saints, the actors have been travelling for some time, and the play concerns their efforts to return horne. Hoping to impress a wealthy nobleman (seated in the audience but never really seen), they discover a great deal about themslcves individually and even more about themselves as a company of actors, a group of men and women who have to work together to live. Professor Reginald Bain, director of the play, also said, "The play isn't just about theatre, although that is the meta­phor used; it is about all people~ technicians, plumbers, carpenters and stu­dents and the basic need each one has to live and work with other people." 
The characters on stage for A Com­pany of Wayward Saints are all recognizable, for the familiar stock char­acters of the commedia have grown into the great and equally familiar characters of the formal drama of later ages. Harlequin, Scapino, Pantalone, Col­umbine and the others have evolved with time into the familiar characters of Moliere and the Punch and Judy Show, Marivaux and Marcel Marceau, Gozzi and Goldoni as well as Red Skelton and Jackie Gleason. These arc the great comic types, the characters of the stage that capture man's essential humanity and dis­play it. 
The faces behind the masks arc equally familiar to local audiences. Mabel Benjamin recently made her stage debut in A Phoenix Too Prequent, hut has long been known on both campuses for her beautiful singing and sparkling wit. Amanda Crabtree has appeared in 
I? hinoceros, The Temr1est. Guys and Dolls, The Sandbox and /low to Succeed in Business Without l?eally Trying. Lance Davis is most well-known for his late~ night singing of Irish ballads at the local coffeehouses, although he has also played lead roles in I? h inoceros, (,' uy s and Dolls and School j(Jr Willes. Daniel Digglcs, the 
only member of the touring comp<JIIl}' who is not a Speech and Drama maJor, has played lead roles in Candida and School j(Jr Wives. Patricia Moran has starred in Candida, Guys and /Jolts, /low to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying, Streetcar Named Desire, Mad­woman of Chaillot and The Potting Shed. Chuck Perrin is probably most well­known for his coffeehouse activities, both promoting and performing. He has also, however, starred in Enrico IV, Guys and Dolls and Candida. John Sheehan began acting with the original company of Impersonal Pronouns, five years ago, but has since appeared in Rhinoceros, Threepenny Opera, The Potting Shed, 
flow To Succed in Business Without Really Trying, The Tempest and several one-act plays. The company is directed by Professor Reginald Bain, who also is the Managing Director of the newly­formed Little Theatre Repertory Company, a summer group that will perform three plays in repertory on St. Mary's campus. 
In addition to the full evening of A 
Company of Wayward Saint, the Notre 
Dame-Saint Mary's Traveling Players also 
do a shorter piece titled On Woman and 
Women A Chamber Theatre Essay. It 
consists of a series of readings: poems, 
prose, proverbs, narrative selections and 
reflections on woman. TI1is program is 
designed for luncheon programs and 
shorter evenings of theatre. 
Other activities of the Notre Dame­Saint Mary's Theatre include a pro­duction of The Trials of Brother Jero for the Black Arts Festival on February 21 and 42; also, Antigone, Fashion, Camelot, and the summer theatre program, which will include productions of Luther, The Importance of Being Harnest, and The Private Ear and The Public ll:ve. More information about any of these activities may he obtained by calling or writing the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre. 


HALF PRICE OFFER 
WHY NOT SEND THE OBSERVER HOME? Special price for second semester
$5 $5 
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF IT NOW! Please send the OBSERVER to: Name Address zip Enclosed is my check for $5.00 

NAME  156 OLIVER  ST.,  N. TONAWANDA,  N.Y.  14120  
ADDRESS  PLEASE SEND ME  QUILLS  
@25¢ EA. PLUS 10¢ HANDLING CHG.  
CITY  STATE  (EXTRA SAVINGS 5 QUILL PENS $1.00)  

~--------------------------------------------------------------­


Webster's last Word Will present festival 
A three part folk festival sponsored by Webster's Last Word Productions was an­nounced yesterday by the cof­feehouse owner senior Chuck Perrin. 
The first phase of the festival is scheduled for next Tuesday in the ballroom of the LaFortune Student Center at 8 pm. Local and campus folk singers will be participating in the festival in­cluding Paul Guernsey, Simon and Blaha, the Occasional Bluegrass Band, Pat Clinton, Mimi McDonough, Rich Homan and Perrin himself. There will also be a large number of other local singers performing. 
Perrin said the festival will "fulfill a need on campus for the 
Soph class debt 
continued from page 1 

university lawyer Phillip Facenda was in New York with the group's agents. The letter demands reimbersement in the form of a band of equal expence to the Shadows to come to ND and perform free of charge. Doyle said that if he does not receive a favorable response from the \Shadows he will take the case to court. 
When asked what the Soph. 
clas~ had planned to make up 
the deficit he pointed to two 
immediate actions. First he said 
that a contract had been worked 
out for a mixer on the Monday 
after Easter. The expences of 
this mixer were being 
completely covered by investers 
from WJVA Radio in town. The 
contract stipulates that 50% of 
the profits from this mixer will 
go to the Sophomore Class. The 
other 50% will be divided among 
the investers. Doyle pointed out 
that even if the mixer lost 
money the class will not lose a 
cent. The second sure fire 
money maker for the class that 
is presently being negotiated is 
summer storage. 
folk idiom. " He added that it will afford the student the opportunity to enjoy folk music in the roomy and relaxed atmos­phere of the ballroom. 
Perrin said all proceeds from the three-phase festival will go to needy families in the area. A 50 cent donation will be asked for Tuesday's festival. 
The second part of the festival is slated for sometime in March. It will feature an evening of Bob Dylan's works including readings of his poetry and singing of his songs by local folk singers. There is also a possibility that Dylan's movie, "Don't Look Back," will be shown. 
The final part of the festival will be run in connection with the upcoming Contemporary Arts Festival slated for April 22-23 in the Stepan Center. De­pending upon the finances avail­able for the Festival, Perrin hopes to attract some pro­fessional talent to the Festival. 
SMC proposal 
continued from page 1 

ministration should be respon­sible for filling their designed seats. It also states, " ... if all or part of a bill is vetoed, it must be sent back to the Student Affairs Committee for recon­sideration with written reason for the veto." 
The recommendation was pre­sented to the committee by Beth Driscoll and Sally Strobel, Stu­dent Body Vice-President and chairman of the committee. The recommendation was accepted by the committee and now goes to the Council for final approval. 
The members of the Council are: Fr. McGrath, President of St. Mary's College, Sister Immaculata, Dean of Students, Mr. Nolan, Therese Am brusko, Student Body President, and Sally Strobel, Student Body Vice-President, and Cathy Sweeney. 


They said it couldn't be done. 
Last spring few people thought that THE OBSERVER could become a daily publication. They said it couldn't be done. But we proved them wrong. 
THE OBSERVER has come a long way in a short space of time, but it has a long way to go. The potential is all around us. That potential is you! 
We need people to put out a paper. So we're offering all undergraduates a chance to pick up the nuts and bolts of the newspaper business. We're running a workshop next week that will cover the operation and organization of THE OBSERVER and also reporting techniques. 
PO Box JJ Notre Dame, Ind. or call 283 · 8661 

PLAY A MUSICAL INSTRUMENn VIOLIN? TRUMPEn FLUTE? DRUMS? 
Sign up lor Collegium Musicum (St. Mary's excuse for an Orchestra) 
with or without credit Meets Sunday Evenings 7:30 to 9:00 Franklin Miller, maestro 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1969 THE OBSERVER PAGE 7 
by Academic Affairs Commission 
NO academic competency to be investigated 
The Student Academic Affairs Commission today began its survey of the value of Notre Dame academics. The Curriculum Revision Study is a student-initiated project aimed at probing into the academic competency of the University at all levels. 

Questionnaires have been sent to 554 randomly selected juniors and seniors with the hope of widespread student interest. A letter has been sent to each one of these students asking them to complete this questionnaire and bring it to the Off-Campus Office at La Fortune or to the Social Science Training Laboratory on the eleventh floor of the library either today or tomorrow between the hours of 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. Student representatives for the committee will be there to answer any questions about this form. 
The results of the study will be presented before a Committee Wednesday at the Morris Inn. The chairman of the committee is Vice-President for Student Affairs Rev. John E. Walsh, and the entire committee consists of both faculty and students. Father Hesburgh will give the introductory invocation at the meeting. 
Other faculty members on the committee are Dr. Herbert Sim, Dr. Albin Szewczyk, Dr. Emil Hofman, Dr. Edward Cronin, Dr. Michael Crowe, Rev. Ferdinand Brown, Dr. Thomas Stewart, Dr. John Meaney, Dean William Burke, Dean Bernard Waldman, Dean Joseph Hogan, Dean Thomas Murphy, and Dean Frederick Crosson. 
The student representatives on the committee are John Moore, President of Arts and Letters, Frank Stumpf, President of Business Administration, Dick 
Legal Aid to operate independently 
John McHale and Thomas Leslie, Assistant Chairmen of the Student Legal Aid Committee announced last night that in the future the Committee would operate independent of Student Government, effective immediately. 
"We are disengaging ourselves from Student Government and retaining Bob Rigney as our chairman," said McHale. 
R i g ney was fired several weeks ago by Student Body President Richard Kossie because he felt that "his handling of the job had not been up to par." Rossie also said that he "did not trust" Rigney. 

The decision to withdraw from Student Government was reached last night in a meeting at which Rigney was not present. McHale said that the prime reason for the move was the fa'ct that the members resented "political meddling in a non-political organization." 
Education lectures set for S.MC 
llendrik D. Gideonse, a U.S. Department of Education re­search director, will present two lectures on the role of research in the future of education at Saint Mary's College Thursday and Friday as part of the Col­lege's continuing Dialogue Series in education. 
Gideonse, director of Program Planning and Evaluation for the 

U.S. Office of Education's Bur-~::!;:.,___________...J..~~!!::====::a;;;;;
..__~ 
Alternative Futures for Ed­ucation" at 7:30 pm Friday in the Little Theater. During his two-day stay on campus, Gideonse will meet with stu­dents and faculty in informal seminars and discussioJl groups. 
Gideonse is a graduate of Amherst College and received his masters and doctoral degrees in education from Harvard Univer-
Rigney said that he knew that some of the members were upset by his dismissal but that he was surprised at the move. He added, "If this is wh'at the members want, I'm more than willing to stay on as chairman." 
"I understand how mcm bers feel," said Rigney. "The politics they are referring to arc between me and Rossie. I wish the matter could have been settled in a different 

Coming Soon 
Based on the ----Pulitzer Prize 
winning novel 

by Bernard Malmun 


the fixer 
Mtuocolo' 
eau of Research, is currently engaged in a large scale govern­mental effort to investigate new forms of education at all levels. 

lie will speak at Saint Mary's as a Danforth Visiting Lecturer under the Arts Program of the Association of American Col­leges. The talks are included in the series "Dialogue: Trends in Contemporary Education," the lead-off program of Saint Mary's 125th anniversary celebration. 
Gideonse will deliver an ad­dress at I : I 0 pm Thursday in Carroll Hall entitled "Intentional Innovation and the Future: Pro­jected Impacts of Research and Development in Education". He also will speak in "Projecting 
LAST TICKETS 


4 TOPS 
ON SAl.£ AT BOOKSTORE 
TODAY ONLY 
Nicholosi, President of Engineering, John Beary, President of Science, and John Hickey, the Student Government Academic Affairs Commissioner. 
The questionnaire was prepared with the aid of approximately 50 students from each of the colleges. Roughly $7500 in financial assistance was obtained for this survey from the Student Government and Father Walsh. 
After the results of the questionnaire are presented to the committee on Wednesday, a report will be prepared and should be ready by April I. The final results of the study should go into effect in the fall of 1970. 
The Commissioner John Hickey has high hopes for the Curriculum Revision Study. He said, "This is the most extensive study ever initiated, and we strongly urge students involved to respond." 

Chicago Symphony Orchestra 
Conducted by Irwin Hoffman 
sponsored by 

Contemporary Arts Festival 
tour triumphs ... "This is what it's all about. A great orchestra, a great conductor, and the greatest music ever written ... the Chicago Symphony countenance is of astonishing beauty and variety." Columbus Citizen Journal, Nov. I 0, 1967 " . The orchestra performed so superbly ... a night of old and new music that on the performance scale rated all the stars it is possible to give." Donald Henahan, New York Times, Nov. 13, 1967 Program: 
1) Firebird Suite-Stravinsky 
2) Piano Concerto-Corigliano (Chicago Symphony Premiere) 
3) Symphony No. 5-Prokofieff 
Tickets may be purchased at: Box Office of AC center, dining halls (Wednesday, Thursday, and i'riday during dinner hour), hall representatives 
and Gilbert's. Also at the door or Convocation Center Box Office. 
FRIDAY, FEB. 7••• 8:00P.M. 
Notre Dame Athletic & Convocation Centel' Ticket Prices: Adults $5.00, $3.50, & $2.50 O:tudents $3.50, $2.50, It $2.00 



DOME PORTRAITS 
ALL JUNIORS -CLASS OF 1970 YEARBOOK PORTRAIT APPOINTMENTS DINING HALLS, TONIGHT, 5-7 P.M. 

Irish smash Demons 
behind Arnie, Dwight 
Behind the splendid shooting of Bob Arnze'n and Dwight Mur­phy, Notre Dame overcome a miserable first half and whipped DePaul HS-73 last night m Alumni llall. Chicago. 
The Irish committed 14 errors 
By GREG WlNGENFELD Observer Sports Writer 
The Irish leers erupted for three third period goals to break open a close contest and cruise to a 5-2 victory over Lake Forest College. Winger John Womack and center Jim Cordes paced the attack with two goals apiece and helped send the partisan Wed­nesday night crowd of I,007 home happy. 
The Irish started slowly but managed to draw first blood as Womack punched home his 14th goal of the season with II: 29 gone in the initial period. Charley Wellington of the Foresters knotted the score al­most six minutes later and the 1-1 deadlock lasted until the du Lac attack jelled midway through the second stanza. 
Coach Lefty Smith was satis­fied with the performance from there on. "In the last half of the game we started to pass the puck around and started to use our points." As a result, the offense opened up. 
At 17:08 Womack netted number IS for an Irish lead which the third period flurry locked up. Paul O'Neil tallied and Cordes added his deuce in that one. 
Coach Smith's experiment with line shake-ups paid off handsomely as the Womack­Hoene-Cordes combo totalled four goals and five assists. Hoene pushed his team-leading point total to 35 as he helped out on four Irish tallies. 
The skaters get but one day's rest before opening a two game weekend scrap with a rugged St. Mary's sextet. Coach Smith ex­pects the Winonans to be "com-before intermission and went to the locker room down 39-36. But in the second stanza, Arnzen rammed in 19 markers and Mur­phy 15 as the Irish broke away from the Blue Demons. 

It was an important victory 
ing down with blood' in their eyes" after fighting N.D. to a 4-4 draw in December. The Friday and Saturday night contests be­
gin at 7:30p.m.  
Lake Forest Notre Dame  0 I  I 3  2 5  
First periScoring  od  

ND-Womack (Norri, Hoene) II :29 LF-Wellington (Woodard) 17:05 
Penalties NO-Mark Longar (charging) 6:57 LF-Jim Field (roughing) II :50 ND-Norri (interference) 16:36 NO-Roselli (Cross checking) 
18:36 Second period Scoring ND-Womack (Hoene, Longar) 17:08 
Penalties ND-Longar (elbowing) 2:10 LF-Woodard (holding) 4:03 ND-O'Neil (tripping) 8:46 ND-Cordes (too many men on 
ice) II :47 LF-Bundy (delay of game) 16:46 
Third period Scoring ND-Cordes (Womack, Hoene) 
0:31 ND-Cordes (Hoene) 13:32 ND-O'Neil (Wittliff, Longar) 
15:08 LF-Wellington (Hanan, Woodard) 16:54 
Penalties ND-Biainey (slashing) 6: 17 LF-Griggs (tripping) 13:55 LF-Woodard (tripping) 14:19 
Saves LF-Campbell 9 II 14 -34 ND-Tomasoni 9 6 10-25 for the men of Johnny Dec, upping their record to 14-4. Fur­ther, it kept alive their hopes for the NCAA post-season tourney. The Irish arc battling for one of the two at-large berths given to midwest independents. 
Murphy put together perhaps his best game of the season at a most crucial time. Austin Carr has had his cast removed, but remains sidelined with a bad foot. In addition, Mike O'Con­nell strained his back in practice Tuesday and was not available last night. That left low-scoring Jack Meehan and Murphy to handle backcourt chores. 
Dec sqid Carr may sec sparing action Saturday in Detroit and Tuesday at home against Mich­igan State. The sparkling sopho­more is not expected to be IOO'Y,. until next Saturday, Feb. 14, when Utah State visits the Con­vo Center. 
Neither team could muster a lead of more than three points in last night's first half. The score was tied six times and the lead .changed hands an incredible 18 times. 
The Blue Demons stayed with Notre Dame through the initial seven minutes of the second half. DePaul got its last lead at 51-50 on Tom Tracy's hoop. 
Then the Irish got two fielders from Arnzen, two more from Bob Whitmore and one from Murphy, while DePaul countered with a pair of buckets by Ken Warzynski. ND led 60-55, the largest margin for either team up to that point. · The hdme club never got closer than three points after that and the Irish finally widened the gap to 12 points at the final buzzer, their biggest cushion of the evening. 
Arnzen, ignoring the sore Achilles tendon which has both­ered him all season, paced all scorers with 31 points. Murphy contributed 23 and Whitmore kicked in 16. DePaul's balanced attack showed AI Zetasche 18, Warzynski 18, Joe Meyer 16, and Tracy 12. 
IRISH FG FT TP Arnzen 11 9-11 31 Murphy 11 1-3 23 Whitmore 6 4-4 16 Catlett 1 1-1 3 Sinnott 1 0-0 2 Meehan 1 0-0 2 Jones 2 0-0 4 Pleick 1 0-0 2 Derrig 0 2-2 2 TOTALS 34 17-21 85 
DEPAUL FG FT TP Zetzsche 8 2-2 18 Warzynski 6 6-7 18 Meyer 4 8-12 16 Tracy 6 0-1 12 
Hunter 4 0-0 8 Brown 0 1-1 1 TOTALS 28 17-23 73 
Lombardi 
released 
GREEN BAY, Wis. (UPI) The Green Bay Packer directors, with deep regret, announced Wednesday night they had unanimously agreed to release Vince Lombardi from the five remaining years of his contract so he can· become coach, chief executive officer and part owner of the Washington Redskins. 
The decision was announced 
by Packer President Dominic 
E1ejnczak after 30 of the 45 
directors had met behind closed 
doors to discuss Lombardi's re­
quest, which was made Monday. 

By Milt Richman, UPI columnist .............•............
,.....................•.....•.............. Baseball united 
NEW YORK (UPl) Nobody likes being laughed at. 
Baseball people arc no exception. 
They were acutely aware, even painfully aware, they were being 
ridiculed over their classic inability to agree upon a new Com11lissioner. So when they went into session behind locked doors in one of Miami Beach's swank hotels Tuesday morning they made up their minds to one thing. They made up their minds they weren't coming out until they found their man. 
First, the owners did what they always do when they have any kind of problem. They formed a committee. Naturally. 
The committee was led by Walter O.Mallcy and Gabe Paul and augmented by Johnny Mcllale, John Galbreath, Arthur Allyn, Dick Meyer and Francis Dale. This group met in a separate room, deliberated for some time, then returned to the others in the larger room. 
"We've got a man right here in our own midst who would fill the 
bill," said Dale, Cincinnati's energetic new president. 
Some eyebrows went up. 
"I'm talking about Bowie Kuhn," Dale identified his man. 
Quicker than you can say the new Commissioner's name, the baseball owners had themselves a new commissioner. 
"I've been in on the voting for a commissioner three times before, Frick twice and Eckert once, but this is the first time I can remember any nominee getting everybody's vote on the first ballot," says Calvin Griffith, owner of the Minnesota Twins. 
There was a reason. ·Nobody likes being laughed at and baseball people are no exception. 
They saw right away they were getting no place early Tuesday after th6'ir first go round. Basically it was the same as their last previous meeting in Chicago six weeks ago. A stalemate. Nobody was budging. Chub Feeny was getting the votes in the National Lea·gue and Mike Burke drawing most of them in the American. 
Neither could muster enough votes for the Commissionership but before the day was out both were added to the major leagues' planning committee which will help restructure the game. 
This could be a way of telling them there are league Presidencies in their future, Feeney as Warren Giles' eventual N L successor and Burke as Joe Cronin's in the AL. 
Kuhn, a 42-year-old attorney, is something of an unknown like his prcde~;,essor, William D. Eckert, who was in Miami "on personal business" Tuesday. 
One long time baseball man, who wasn't at Tuesday's changing of the guard, was shocked upon hearing Bowie Kuhn was the new Commissioner. 
"They picked the Unknown Soldier last time," he said. "Now they went out and got themselves a race track" The baseball man .vas kidding, of course. He knew Kuhn and also knew Kuhn was capable. 
"He doesn't waste words," said the baseball man. "You ask him a question and he'll generally tell you yes or no. If he tells you he doesn't know something but will let you know later, you can count on it. He'lllet you know." 
To most, the new Commissioner appears a National League man because he has been a National League attorney most of the 20 years he has been connected with the game. He started in the American League though as a scorekeeper in Griffith Stadium, Washington, at $1 a day. 
Calvin Griffith remembers young Kuhn. 
"He was a helluva good boy and I recall him telling me he wouldn't be with us next year because he had to go into service," said Griffith. 
"Did he keep score well?" somebody asked the Twins owner. 
"Pretty good," Griffith answered. "Nobody runs the scoreboard perfect. We had an old fashioned scoreboard with all those wheels to turn. He worked it alone, I think. We couldn't afford to hire more help." 
Griffith was rather surprised when his former $1 a day employee was nominated for baseball's highest office but when he thought it over he liked the idea. 
"I said to myself there's a guy I could vote for," he said. 
He did and so did all the others. When the winter meetings roll around next December, Kuhn's term of office certainly will be extended from one year if he does a decent job. Feeney and Burke most likely will become his two chief deputies. 
Eckert, poor fellow, got off on the wrong foot three years ago when he read the wrong cue cards shortly after being named Commissioner. 
Kuhn got off on the right one. He said he'd be surprised if spring training doesn't go off on schedule when questioned about the threatened players' strike. 
The owners all seem happy over their choice. They aren't being laughed at anymore. Maybe Detroit's John Fetzer speaks for them all. 
"This," he says, "is the first time we've been united in sometime." 







