

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1969
VOL. IV, Nu.j ;)C Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
President Nixon speaks on the war 
J: 
. 
1 .~ * 
1 
~ ~ 

i 
The possibility of discontinuing the CA F because of lack of funds is a problem worrying Chairman Dick Roddewig. 
CAF lacks finances 
eration last year.

by Cliff Wintrode CAF is also calling a met•ting 
Contemporary Arts Festival Thursday at 7:30 in 127 Niewe­

Chairman Dick Roddewig said land Science Hall for all students 
yesterday that the CAF interested in seeing the CAF 
committee is "seriously survive. 
considering" cancelling the re­Roddewig commented on the 
mainder of their program after political power the CAF wields 
November I lth due to a dearth in the Senate and the part poli­
of dollars. 
tics played in the Senate's deci­
An unresponsive Student Sen­sion to give the CAF only 

all' and a recalcitrant administra­$2,000. 
tion dealt the major blows to the "We have no core of senators 
financial well being of the Fes­who support us. We try to keep 
tival, according to Roddewig. out of the realm of campus 
Roddcwig explained that a politics, so we do not have any 

n11nimum 'of $1500 to $20')0 political·punch. People wh'o have 
ovl·r the Senate's $2000 is more of a voice in the Senate 
needed to "justify the past Fes1.i­cun get their beneficial programs 
vals and to get off the ground pushed through," he said. 
the concept of a year long festi­Pat Dowdall, Student Union 
val." Academic Commissioner, agreed 
lie added that there arc four wilh this appruisal but added 

possible avenut•s of receiving fi­that there "appeared to he some 
nancial help open to the Arts behind the scenes negotiating to 
l;estival cut the CAF hudgct." 
First, the Senate is consider­Bill Knapp, CAF financial 

mg asking for an administration chairman, said that "as a whole, 
loan of $~0.000 instead of the Senate is insensitive to the 
$I .1,000, and it is hoped that arts on campus," and that con­
piHI ol this extra $7,000 would I rury to Senate belief the sale of 
go lo the CAF. almost 550 CAF patron cards ut 
The h·slival committel' ;liso $7.50 each shows "quite strong" 

inll'tllls to again approach the student interest. 
administration with a requcsl for Roddewig commenled on the 
suppori. zero amount of financial support 
Another idea is to go to inter­the CAF received from the ad­

ested South Bend people and ask ministration. 
for assistann·. Some of these "I think it is somewhat palhe­
people g!lve the CAF some coop-(Continued on pagl' :!) 
policy of this nation to be dic­the President said. schedule. But he disclosed that tated by the minority who hold Even before he was inaugu-the timetable based on estimates that view and who attempt to rated, Nixon said, he made two last June "is more optimistic impose it on the nation by separate private offers to Hanoi now," partly because of the lull 
"flatly rejeded my initiativ..:," could not be "frozen" in a set 
mounting demonstrations in the 
through an unnamed individual in Communist military activity street," he said. 
for a rapid settlement of the and the progress in training Speaking midway between 
war. Other private initiatives South Vietnamese forces to lake nationwide anti-war demonstra­
were made in Paris, through the over a greater share of the tions, the President told the 
Soviet Union and through other fighting. nation's youth: "I respect your 
secret channels, he said. Officials said an orderly with­idealism. I share your concern 
"The effect of all the public, drawal of all combat forces was for peace. I want peace as much 
private and secret negotiations planned first, leading eventually as you do." 
which have been undertaken to withdrawal of all American He added: "I want to end the 
since the bombing halt a year forces. war so that the energy and dedi­
ago and since this administration Nixon warned that if Commu­cation of our young people, now 
came into office on Jan. 20 can nist infiltration or American cas­too often directed into bitter 
be summed up in one sentence....:_ ualties increase while the United hatred against those they think 
no progress whatever has been States is trying to scale down the are responsible for the war, can 
made except agreement on the fighting, "it will be the result of be turned to the great challenges 
shape of the bargaining table." a conscious decision by the ene­of peace, a better life for all 
But Nixon, who picked the 

my" that will be met by "strong Americans and for people 
first anniversary of the bombing and effective measures." throughout the world." halt of North Vietnam for his The President's half-hour ad-Then, the President said, "To major policy address, said there 
dress, delivered alone from his you, the great silent majority of was good news as well as bad. 
gold and blue Oval Room office my fellow Americans, I ask for The United States and the except for radio and television your support." South Vietnamese government, technicians, replied in a concilia­He recalled he had made a he said, had adopted a plan "for tory tone toward youthful campaign pledge last year to end the complete withdrawal of all demonstrators de.manding an im­the war and declared he had a 
U.S. ground combat forces and mediate end to the war. Yct he plan to keep that pledge. 
their replacemtmt by South Viet­made dear that war decisions "The more support I can have namese forces on an orderly 
were his alone to make as Presi­from the American people, the scheduled tim~tablc." 
dent. sooner that pledge can be re­The President refused to di-"I would be untrue to my deemed; for the more divided we vulge his timetable, saying he oath of office if I allowed the (Continued on page 2) 
SLC requests security probe 
around the football stadium be
by Bill Carter 
lit up at night was countered 
In the main action of last with the problems of the idea's 
night's Student Life Council expense ($1 0,000 according to 
meeting a motion to form a Fr. Riehle) and doubt as to 
committee to investigate the en­

whether it would be at all effec­tire University security system 
tive. was unanimously passed after a Student Body President Phil brief discussion. The original McKenna then presented an motion as presented by student 
amendment to the motion which representative Steve Ahearn 
called for the committee to ex­called only for a committee to amine the whole security sys­investigate possibilities for im­tem. McKenna explained that 
•• provements in security for the this was needed because "it 
' 
:\;,..

student parking lots. would be easier to resolve the 
bY John Kissel
The council also passed a mo­parking lot security problems if 
•

tion to set up a committee to we could find out what changes Rich Meckel at SLC meeting 
study the question of the Uni­could be made in the whole meeting. 
versity's policy regarding student system to make it work better. In a preliminary action the 
demonstrations. The proposal in­At least one suggestion that I've Council called for each of the 
cluded a list of four reasons as heard said that the security three representative groups to 
the rationale for the motion, all guards weren't needed in all the report next Monday with the 
of which centered around the halls every night. It might be names of those selected to sit on 
lack of clarity in the University's possible to take some of these the University Court and the 
position on student disorders. out of the halls and make a Court of Appeals. Each group 
Ahearn's proposal called for a parking lot patrol out of them." will appoint two representatives 
three member committee to After the motion was passed to the University Court and one 
look into the reports of vandal­the formation of the committee to the Court of Appeals. Upon 
ism in the student parking are<J was postponed until next week's (Continued on page 2) 
<Jnd make recommendations for the improvement of security. Fr. Riehle corrobor<Jted evidence of extensive property damage to student-owned cars. He said the security department has become inc rea singly more concerned with the parking lot crimes in recent weeks but as yet has no workable plan of preventative measures. 
"I did make a suggestion that the students take it upon them­selves to form a p<Jtrol group to work lhe parking lots on Friday and Saturday nights. for which they would he placed on the payroll aml recL'Jve good money. Some of the studenls I talked to thought it was a good idl~a and promised to round up some Pl'O­ple for the job. But it seems they weren't able to find anybody," Riehle said. 
A sug~~estion thai the lots 

HPC statement 
l11e the Hall Presidents, are in basic disagreement with Stud£;nt (,'oJ!ernment's policy of eliminating tire deficit tlris year. It is our opinion that too many organizations will be seriouslv handicapped if tire present budget recomm£;ndations are passed. We suggest that tire deficit be eliminated oJ!er a period of three years, instead olol'l'f Oil£' or two fiscal years. 
We specifically rt•commet1£l tlrat the jiJ/Iowing organiza­tions be appropiately funded: the /JI'C's An 1'ostal Weekend, the Ob.\·etT£'r, The Sophomore Utcrary f.'l'stiva/, and the Contemporary Arts Ft·stiJ•al. Our rationale jiJr this reconiiiH'ndation is that all ji!llr organization.\' benefit el't•ry student at this Unil'crsity and arc not restril'fed to a catain student inti'rcst groU(J. 
We also n·collllllt'lld that the 11.fro-11merican Society he .fi111dnl ,\'IJ that they can at least t•.fjectil'dy operatl'. lt'e .fl•el an obligation to support the Afro-A mcrican Society in keeping with thl' concept ofa catholic UniJil'rsity. 

WASH! NGTON ( U PI) Presi­dent Nixon last night rejected demands for total, immediate 
U.S. withdrawal from Vietnam and asked "the great, silent ma­jority" of Americans to support his careful course toward a set­tlement of the war. 
"For the future of peace," he told a nationwide broadcast au­dience from his White llouse office, "precipitate withdrawal would he a disaster of immense magnitude." 
In appealing for greater public support, the President took what he called "the unprecedented step" of disclosing a number of secret peace initiatives including a personal letter to North Viet­namese president flo Chi Minh last July. 
Making public copies of the private exchange, Nixon urged Ho to negotiate seriously in Paris for an early end to the war. Ho's reply, received on Aug. 30, three days before his death in Hanoi, 



/ 




SLC wants clear policy on student disorders 
(Continued from page 1) 
approval by Fr. Hesburgh, the Judicial Board would be ready to go into effect. 
Later in the meeting student representative Rich Meckel pre­sented a proposal which called for a six man tri-partite com­mittee to be chosen from the members of the SLC for the purpose of examining the pre­sent "demonstration policy" at Notre Dame. Meckel said the committee was needed because the University policy on student 
demonstrations as stated in the Student Manual differed in many respects with the policy as outlined in Fr. Hesburgh's letter last year. 

"This conflict has created a good deal of ambiguity on the question of where the University stands on this issue," he said. "I think that it's important that everyone know exactly what the University's position is." 
The proposal was passed with only one negative vote and once again the formation of the com­mittee was put off a week. 
In a final piece of business 
Reminder to all club and hall presidents 
lfyou want a booth in the Mardi Gras '70 Camilial, your representatiPe must be present at a general meeting TONITE, Tuesday, NuJJ. 4 at 7:00PM in the Amphitheatre ofthe Student Center. 
McKenna presented a resolution which called for the elimination of the passage in the Student Manual which denies eligibility for extracurricular activities to those students who are placed on academic or disciplinary oro­bation. McKenna and the other student representatives argued that activities often aid in bringing a student back to a satisfactory academic and disci­plinary standing. 
There was considerable oppo­sition to the proposal among the administration and faculty repre­sentatives and the discussion was extended until the adjournment hour. It was moved that the resolution be tabled until next week. 
CAFseeks help from many sources 
(Continued from page 1) 

tic that Notre Dame calls itself a major university yet does not sponsor a cultural event of its 
own," he said. 

Roddewig added that the ad­ministration has charged and continues to charge the CAF for the use of Stepan Center and the Convocation Center. 
Knapp cited as an example last spring when the CAF went to Father Joyce to get the $ 1600 Convocation rental fee for the Chicago Symphony re­
duced  to  nothing.  Knapp  re­ 
ported  that  Father  Joyce  ac­ 
cused  the  students  of  being  

"money hungry," and denied the request. 
The idea of the administration setting up a fund to.. finance certain campus groups including the CAF was discussed at a meeting last spring between the administration and the CAF, said Roddewig. 
Roddewig said that in corres­pondence over the summer the administration indicated that they had not decided on the amount of funds that were to be given. 
When the start of the semester came and went, Roddewig said he finally went over and talked to Dr. Thomas Stewart, Assis­tant to the President for Plann­ing and Analysis. 

The college you can't get into without a job. 
The college is ours-Western Electric's Corporate Education Center in Hopewell, New Jersey. 
Like your college, ours has a campus with dorms, dining halls, labs and a library. Unlike yours, you can't get into ours without a job. A job at Western Electric. 
Our students-engineers, managers and other professionals­develop and expand their skills through a variety of courses, from corporate operations to computer electronics. To help bring better telephone service and equipment, through the Bell System. 
For information contact your placement office. Or write: College Relations Manager, Western Electric Co., Room 2500, 222 Broadway, New York, New York 10038. An equal opportunity employer. 
.I 
Western Electric 
Manufilr:tLrrlng nnd Supply Un11 of the Bell System 



Stewart told Roddewig that no funds would be forthcoming due to the University's financial bind. 


Nixon formula 
(Continued from page 1) .r 
are at home, the less likely the enemy is to negotiate in Paris," he said. "Let us be united for peace. Let us also be united against defeat. Because let us under­stand: North Vietnam cannot defeat or humiliate the United States. Only Americans can do that." Nixon firmly turned down suggestions he said were made shortly after his inauguration in January that he order an imme­diate withdrawal of all American forces from Vietnam. Some poli­tical advisers then said "this was the only way to avoid allowing Johnson's war to become Nixon's war," he said. To follow such a course, he said, would be to permit wide­spread Communist massacres in South Vietnam. Furthermore, he said, there would be a worldwide "collapse of confidence in A­merican leadership" and those intent on world conquest would be spurred on to "recklessness" and violence elsewhere. Despite fruitless U.S. diploma­tic efforts in Paris and elsewhere, Nixon listed areas of success in de-escalating the conflict and carrying out his announced in­tention on Guam last July of turning more of the burden of the fighting over to South Viet­nam. 

Delegates may sign-up today 
Students wishing to partici­
pate in the upcoming Model 
United Nations General Assem­
bly can sign up to he delegates 
Tuesday and Wednesday (Nov. 4 
and Nov. 5). Sign-ups will be in 
the N D and SMC dining halls 
and at the N D off-campus office, 
as well as on the campus of 
Indiana University (South 
Bend). The Model United Na­
tions is open to students of ND, 
SMC and IUSB only. 

Potential delegates will be ask­ed to indicate five delegations they are interested in and list them in preference, as well as indicating a general area of inter­est. There will be a $3 registra­tration fee to cover the costs of. the General Assembly. 
Michael Kelly, Chairman of the Model United Nations Com­mittee, said that "preference will be given to prearranged groups signing up for a delegation to­gether in order to increase a sense of cohesion and purpose within the delegation." 
Once the delegations have been chosen each will select its own chairman. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage 
46556. 



ND appoints black trustee 

The University of Notre Dame today appointed civil rights leader Bayard Rustin as the first Negro member of its Board of Trustees. 
Rustin's career as a civil rights leader began in 1941, when he served as Race Relations Secre­tary of the Fellowship of Recon­ciliation. He participated in the first Freedom Ride, designed to test laws outlawing discrimina­tion in interstate travel, and later became director of A. Philip Randolph's Committee Against Discrimination in the Armed Forces. 
A long-time friend of Martin Luther King, Rustin drew up the first plans for the Southern Christian Leadership Con­ference, and later served as special assistant to King for seven years. In 1964, he or­ganized the New York school 

Hall Presidents Council argues over financial proposition 
by Glen Corso The llall Presidents Council met last night, and wrangled for an hour and a half over a ration­ale to be presented to the Student Senate, concerning the budget. The discussion was prompted when Tom Suddes, Chairman of the HPC, read to the body, a copy of Joe Wemhoff's letter condemning the proposed budget. At first the discussion center­ed around whether or not the H PC should officially sign Wemhoff's Jetter. Suddes 
conceded that the letter had 
"some valid points" but ques­
tioned whether or not it express­
ed the HPC feelings accurately. 
The one point that was generally 
agreed upon was the fact that 
the debt should not be paid off 
in one year. 
"It's stupid to cut everything 
this year and then give all the 
organizations a huge amount ot 
money to work with next year," 
Suddes commented. 
Carl Rak, an Off-campus 
Senator who was at the meeting 
to give a presentation on Junior­
Parents Weekend, was asked for 
his comments on the mood of 
the Senate. 
"There was a Jot of damage 
done hy the Afro's at thr rnd of 
Thursday night's meeting. The 
Senators realize that they have 
hurt a lot of people. A Jot of 

Senators feel we have lost sight 
of what student government is 

supposed to be." 
As Rak was speaking, Tom 
Duffy, Secretary of the HPC 
drew up a rationale for the 
presidents to discuss. His pro­
posal called for the full funding 
of The Observer, An Tostal 
Werkend, the Sophomore 
Literary Festival, and the 
minorities. It also recommended 

Finske appointed 
Sister M. Jeanne Finske, C.S.C., has been appointed aca­demic dean of Saint Mary's by Rt. Rev. Msgr. John J. McGrath, president. She has been func­tioning as acting academic dean since July 1969 when she re­placed Sister M. Alma Peter who was named assistant to the presi­dent. 
As academic dean, Sister Jeanne Finske will have the re­sponsibility for the administra­tion, coordination and develop­ment of undergraduate academic functions of the College. 
a $22,000 deficit. Mastriana declared. "If they 
When asked for his feelings on don't· we will be forced to the proposal, Rak said, "There suspend their visitation hours." are 20 votes inthe Senate who M astriana urged the Hall 
want to go on $46,000. I feel Presidents to have the members 
that Hunter and Thrasher could of their halls comply with the hold it there, but probably guidelines set down by the SLC won't." and approved by the Trustees. 
He urged the HPC to show the Various opinions were heard Senate that some things should from the other hall presidents. receive more funds this year. Almost all criticized the sign-in Ron Mllstriana, Executive . procedure. The President of Coordinator of the HPC, stated Dillion, Paul Galgan, argued that that he felt that as much as the members of his hall had $ 10,000 should be added to the "spent 60-70 man hours on the deficit. He then asked Rak whole thing." He felt that "there 
which would be more effective, was nothing else that they could to have a Senator introduce a 
do." 

resolution calling for increased A representative from Breen­funds for An Tostal, or to Phillips urged the hall presidents present a rationale read by to "hang together for two 
Sud des. weeks. If we have to take action, Rak urged the writing of a then we can do it all together. If 
rationale. He cited several two or three halls act now they Senators who were planning to may bumble it all up." introduce resolutions favoring increased funds for The Sophomore Literary Festival, The Observer, The Contem­


CCu~tom

porary Arts Festival, and An Tostal Weekend. He also felt that it would be more effective to have Suddes read the state­


jfllabe to 

ment. Debate then moved to the 

question of amendments to the original statement. The first amendment cut out the figure that the HPC recommended be the final deficit and instead 
urged the payment of the debt 
~utbt ~kirt 
over a three year period. The second amendment added the CAF to the list of organizations the HPC felt should get more money, and the third substituted I "Afro-American Society" for the "minority groups" that the ~ 
1

original contained. The fully amended statement then passed by a I 0 to 5 vote. 
Ron Mastriana then revealed that the Hall Life Board had conducted an investigation into the parietal procedures of each hall. He claimed that the Board had tried to do something about 

, antiques
eliminating sign-ins, but that Fr. 

"Ju~t ~bout" euerptbing tn
llesburgh had dedared that the board lacked authority for such a move. 
jt\utlrp 

Seven halls were cited by 
t bi' picture is for sa It at: 
Mastriana as having enough parietal violations to warrant notice from the HLB and added 




'iratber JLtb.
that their hours were in danger of suspension. They are, Holy Cross, Dillon, Walsh, Alumni, Flanner, Carrol, and Morrissey. 
"These halls have until Nov. 
118 ~out b~a in ~treet
I 0 to correct their pro~;ed u res," boycott, the largest civil rights demonstration up to that time, and aided striking sanitation workers of Memphis by raising $100,000 for their community committee. He is currently Ex­ecutive Director of the A. Philip Randolph Institute, an organiza­tion sponsoring programs to en­hance the political power of the poor, by enlisting the help of white Americans, sponsoring voter registration, and expanding opportunities for the un­employed. 
In addition to his efforts on behalf of American blacks, Rus­tin has defended Japanese­Americans placed in work camps during World War II, was'chair­man of the Free India Com­mittee in 1945; and organized the Committee to Support South African Resistance, sup­porting blacks in that rigidly apartheid country. 
An avowed pacifist even during the Second World War, Rustin was imprisoned in 1942 
Parker to speak 
On Wednesday, November 5, 
1969 at 8:00 p.m. the Student 
Union Academic Commission 
will present civilian astronaut 
Dr. Robert Allan Parker in the 
Library Auditorium. 
Prior to his selection as a 
scientist-astronaut by NASA in 
August, 1967, the New York 
City native was a professor of 
Astronomy and Kstronomy Re­
search at the University of Wis­
consin. He holds a bachelor of 
Arts degree in Astronomy and 
Physics from Amherst College 
and a Doctorate in Astronomy 
from the California Institute of 
Technology. 
Taking leave from intensive training in preparation for future manned space flights, the thirty­two year old doctor will speak on the future of the Space Pro­gram. A question and answer session will follow. 

eat uer ~ oob~ ~our ®rber 
as a conscientious objector. In 1953, he became executive sec­retary of the War Resisters' Lea­gue and later helped mobilize the first of the Aldermaston peace marches in England. 
The active trustees of the Uni­versity number 33 laymen and 8 priests. Two years ago the Con­gregation of the Holy Cross, which founded Notre Dame in 1842, turned governance of the institution over to the lay-con­trol-led Board. 
Take a Buddy to Lunch for Half-Price 

Now thru Friday, Nov. 7, this coupon lets you pay for a lunch at half price when you have one at regular low prices. Quarter lb. Ground Steak and French Fries 79 cents. Steak dinners $1.09 to $1.89. What a deal! 

.........................::::~ 

'***COUPON· 
tLACK 
AN~I/.r I 
i 

iSTEAK HOUSE i : 
:1520 N. Ironwood Dr. 
i 

: = 
. -:South of Campus betweeh ..• 
. 

•South Bend Ave. & Edison Rd• 
§coupon f'nr Sf!cond Din~eJ: ofl 
1

: Samf! Value at Hulj~Pricr · 
•

: Good Between 11,00 am
•

1: and 4:00pm, 




PAGE 4 


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
.FOUNDED NCVEMBER 3 1966 

The Senate's Fiscal Responsibility 
The Senate will meet tonight in order to finalize the student government budget. From all indications, it looks as if the finance committee's recommendations will be accepted with only minor changes. 
If so, we feel that the Senate will be following an imprudent course of action. Many programs which are struggling to bring a breath of fresh air to the stale atmosphere which envelops this campus are being forced to watch as their revolutionary ideas are nipped in the bud. We seriously doubt that the idea of "fiscal responsibility" which is the basis for this butchering is being used in its proper context. 
No one enjoys seeing their hard earned money squandered by irresponsible persons in positions of power, nor do they enjoy it being spent on worthless projects which will benefit small, select pressure groups which influence legislators. The term fiscal responsibility means proper management of public funds. To inadequately fund projects which are vital and necessary forces in a community's life merely because of the fear of a debt is misuse of the principle. 
Student Government has already paid back its debt to the University--or to look at it another way, the University has collected its money from the funds it received when the student-activities-fees were paid. The overspending that student government has already planned for in its new budget will. have to take the form of another loan from the University. This new loan will have to be paid back next year. 
Look at it this way. The proposed budget already provides for a new debt of approximately $14,000. The budget is now close to $60,000. Next year receipts from the activities fee will be approximately $96,000. Subtracting $14,000 to pay off this year's debt leaves about $82,000 for student government to work with. That means student government will have to figure out how they can spend $22,000 more next year than they are spending this year. We feel that they are going to have a hard time figuring out where to spend it since many organizations might come close to going out of business this year because of the budget cuts. 
Why not prorate the repayment of the debt over two . ·ears? Student government could easily incur a $20,000 to $25,000 debt this year and pay it back next year, while balancing the budget. We feel that this is the path that students should encourage their senators to follow. 
The Senate must pause and consider what kind of damage it is doing to the various clubs and organizations whose monies they have slashed far below the requested amount. The effects are almost beyond comprehension. Many, many people are devoting long hours to the success of these various _projects. Most do it without compensation. Their prime motivation is the pride in their accomplishments and the satisfaction derived from helping to improve the Notre Dame community. How much pride and satisfaction can be derived from an aborted project that is hamstrung by lack of funds? What further motivation can be derived when the means for accomplishing an objective ofexcellence 
are beyond attainment? 
Something that the Senate must also consider are the effects on next year's activities. Such things as the Contemporary Arts Festival, the Sophomore Literary Festival, and An Tostal Weekend, cannot be rejuvenated overnight. The directors of these things depend heavily on the advice of those who headed them the previous year. What kind of advice can a disappointed and dispirited individual give? 
The Senate must consider that full funding of these projects is an investment in the future of Notre Dame. There is no reason to shortchange the students this year. A debt of $20-25,000 is not that bad at all when it is measured against the ill effects that a smaller deficit will have on the community. 

The Observer budge_t 
The Observer would like to encourage students once again to talk to their Senators and 
ask them to vote for a$12,000 appropriation for The Observer. 
The rationale for our request, we believe, was adequately presented in last Friday's 
paper by our publisher. · 
We need the $12,000 to insure that we continue daily publication in the format that 
would be best for the future of the paper -that is, eight pages per day. An eight-page 
daily paper will provide us with the opportunity to develop the best caliber newspaper 
that we can, and would provide us with the opportunity to attract more advertising. 
Perhaps the second point is the most significant since if The Observer has the space to 
attract new advertising there is the possibility that it will someday be able to cover most 
of its cost through advertising receipts. If not student government will be allocating 
money to The Observer year after year -and to a three day Observer to boot. 
In that vein the additional allocation to The Observer is an investment in the future ­
an investment that will provide the community not only with a fine newspaper but one 
that someday will be able to pay its own way. 
~XX~~~~~~oooodO~ 

Opinions in cartoons, columns and letters to the editor are solely those of the authors. The editorial opinion of The Observer is found solely in its editorials. 

l.effer 
Editor: 
While the goals of a balanced budget and financial control are valid, efforts of this year's Stu­dent Government to achieve them are highly questionable. 
Firstly, the present policy of failing to allocate any funds whatever to a number of long­standing campus organizations ignores the marginal value of money. The amount saved by cutting, say, $1000 from a bud­get of $5000 is the same as a $1000 cut from a budget of $1000. However, greater relative injury is done than by saving that $1000 by pro-rated cuts of $833 and $167, respectively. 
Secondly, taxation without representation is tyranny; and the average Notre Dame man is submitting very meekly to SG tyranny. The student Senate is not representative; the break­down is: 
Arts and Letters 75% Business Administration 15% Science 5% Engineering 5% 
Each student pays $16 annual activities fees the total of which is allocated by the Senate, with­out any attempt to match the sources of funds with their uses-a basic principle of fiscal management. For example, while 1050 BA students contri­bute $16,800 of activities fees, not one cent of this has been returned to Business School or­ganizations requesting funds­funds coming from business stu­dents. In short, the majority 
should not be coerced into sup­porting the projects of the mi­nority: specifically, the minority controlling Student Government funds. 
Thirdly, having already paid debts of $50,356.79, SG has $45,643.21 available for use. The present incomplete budget indicates a deficit this year of about $14,000. Next year, as­suming activities fees remain consrant, income will stay at $96,000. Subtracting the $14,000 deficit, funds available will be $!12,000-nearly twice that of th:~ year! A deficit some­what greater than $14,000 would result in more consistent income statements, while, most importantly, it would not catas­
trophically disrupt student activ­ities, 'Wtich may never recover. A de'fic~, per se, is not always bad. 
Fourthly, it would seem ab­

surd to allow any group un­
skilled in business or budgetting 
to examine and appropriate 
nearly one-tenth of a million 
dollars. Yet, this is precisely the 
situation at Notre Dame. The 
University has allowed an un­
trained corpus to assume greater 
responsibility than it is prepared 
for, and to fill a major function 
that it has not justifiably shown 
itself capable of discharging 
competently. 
Alternatives to correct this 

damnable situation include ask­
ing your senator for an explana­
tion, massive student turnout at 
tonight's Senate meeting, and 
demands for activities fees re­
funds. 
A final resource would be 

legal action in the form of a 
court injunction freezing present 
funds, or in the form of investi­
gations for fiduciary malfea­
sance. 
Most sincerely, 
Joseph Wemhoff 

David Breen, Business Manager Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. News Editor: Glenn Corso Copy Editor: David Stauffer 
Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Ann Conway, Laura Haferd, Jeanne Sweeney, Prudence Wear Layout Editor: Mary Beth Crimmins Photo Editor: Phil Bosco Features Editor: Tom Ehrbar Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Night Editors: John Knorr, Dave Bach 
Layout Design: Mary Chris Morrison Headlines: Jim Graif, Tom Law Layout: Patty Lipscomb Night Controller: Harold Taegel 
Vikings find Valhalla 

service-pep rally is followed by a Viking
hy Uuz Craven 
march around campus to recruit new
OI>IN 1! tWIN!!' 
members for the war party.

With this cry the Vikings burst from When the group is assembled in fulltheir fortress in the Dillon-Alumni court­force, the Vikings march straight throughyard, prepared to sacrifice their vocal traffic to the stadium. The paradecords to defend Notre Dame honor at 
continues once around the stadium "to
home foot ball games. 
give old thrill," ends
The Vikings originated in the first floor the folks a and 
outside the football team's locker roomB-wing Sl'dion of Dillon llall, more with a brief pep rally, then on to thel'Oilli!Hlnly called "Valhalla.' Since their game. Once in the stadium the Vikingsfounding, the Vikings fame has spread far follow a ritual of cheering each starlingwllh the aid of pictures in the South player individually and re-enacting the
/lend l'rilnlllt' and the Chicago Sun 
life of George Gipp.

Times. 
After that. it's impossible to tell \thatThis spirited group was the idea of two will happen. Occasionally the Vikings
N() sophomores who were disgusted with condescend to follow the cheerleaders,
I he lack of spirit shown at the hut they usually do only original cheers.
Northwestern game at the opening of the The highlight of the Viking's day is
home fool ball season. The lwo, Rich the at of
Sherman and Mike Murphy, formed the swarming onto field the end 
half-time to form a tunnel to cheer vn the
Vikings to show that some Notre Dame .. II 1 by Phil Bosco 
l as return he 1e t, ant
men still believe the Fighting Irish should eam lhey to l 1 to These are the Vikings! "~ave an all o~t ~ape session." Th.e Dlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
have "6000 teammates in the stands." 
V1kmgs da1m ntual

hom an initial membership of two, the th1s msp1red the1r: 
Irish to their second-half comeback in the :Vikings have grown to an informal 
organization with at least 70 regular Southern Cal game. The Vikings also E honored at last week's game when several 5
members and at least ISO more irregulars, members of the team of llJ49 expressed a :and they invite anyone else who has J desire to join them in the stands to cheer 5strong sense of pride but "no sense of 
on the Irish. :
shame" to join their ranks. A football weekend for a Viking begins 
Future plans for the Vikings include : with the Friday night pep rally, which the 
continuing their support of Notre Dame : Vikings attend as a group. However, the 
athletic teams, at least through the : pep rally is just a warm-up for the 
basketball and hockey seasons. Next year : game-day activities. Dressed in their the Vikings hope to organize as an official 5 Viking outfits, the group meets at II :00 campus club, and perhaps charter buses 5 o'clock in the Dillon-Alumni courtyard 
to some of the away football games. The: for prayers to Odin, the chief Viking god. 
club will show movies to raise money for: and for jousting sessions which prepare their activities, and they promise that E 
Harold assumes a familiar pose.the Viking's lungs for the torture they Burt Lancaster and Tony Curtis in 'The: will receive later in the game. This prayer Vikings" will be their first film. 5
-
-
-

Waiting for Sadie 
by Harold J. Taegel was about 4 to I and since she came into contact with large numbers of men
Bleak. That word has weighed heavily through her business (the boys do need to on my mind these past few days pro­quench their thirst) she had more thanducing a feeling of, well, bleakness. 
her share of dates (on some weekendBleak is the weather-five consecutive nights she's book two or three dates).
days of cloudy, drizzly, miserably But, Sadie was chomping at the bit and
weather. 
she didn't like the boy-ask-girl custom.
Bleak is the time of year -mid­She was getting old almost 21 andsemester tests, papers due, loss of sleep. 
she didn't want to waste time with guys
Bleak is the news (it always seems that who weren't gocd marriage prospects. So,way) -Vietnam continues, stock market she decided to become an independent,drops, another plane hijacked, Arabs on liberated woman and take the bull by the
the warpath. 
horns (so to speak).
• Bleak days, also, for lop teams in
'I 
Using her size to h•)r best advantage,• professional football --what happened
-. she reversed the process and began taking
Dallas, St. Louis, Houston, San Diego and
;.i the initiative in dating relationships.
Oakland?
'I Legend has it that she never was turned
But, contributing considerably to my
• down. I believe it -would you dare risk
feeling of bleakness is a day known 
the consequences of the wrath of such asardonically at St. Mary's as Sadie Haw­woman? Finally she got her man (just likekins Day. Some of you may be wondering the Royal Canadian Mounted Police andwho Sadie was and what she did to
I 
as every woman likes to think she does);endear herself in the hearts of woman­
I he was 5 feet 2 and weighed I I0 pounds.
kind everywhere (especially the kind of It must be quite apparent by now why".'Oman St. Mary's is noted for). 
Sadie 1-la wkins is honored with a specialWell, having had the experiences I've duy. She embodied and exemplified all had with women, I have, of course, the characteristics of the dominating wo­
stumbled across the legend of this god­man which all women secretly ( but
dess of girls' private colleges. So, I feel it 
sometimes not so secretly) strive to at­my solemn duty as a conscientious and tain. 
contributing member of the male com­But, to come back to my present
munity to expose this gal and the reasons her feast is celebrated with such fervent plight. It is a social custom at St. Mary's solemnity and devotion. to observe Sadie Hawkins Day and to Sadie lived (boy, did she live!) in 
reverse the usual procedure of boy-ask­Alaska during the gold rush days of the girl. Since I am a social animal, who am I 1890's. She was a mountain of a woman to fight custom? 
who stood 6 feet 4 and weighed 245. With that in mind, let it be known to With those kind of dimensions (we won't 
one and all alike at that school-across­mention any other figures -they're too 
the-road that in order to be prepared for unbelievable) she naturally Look to lum­
a flurry of phone calls, I am doing the following:be~jacking. While she took to lumber­jacking her fellow lumber-Jacks didn't 
I) I am cutting all of my classes for the take too well to her. You see, she was rest of the week; 
always bitching about something-hours 2) I am having my meals delivered to too long, unfair compensation, something 
my room: about woman's rights. Sadie was causing J) I am sleeping at night with the dissension in the ranks, so the foreman 
telephone under my pillow; had to let her go (it took four men and 4) I have made arrangements for the their muscle to convince him to let her 
overflow of calls to be diverted to the go). Iwo rooms immediately adjoining mine. The gold rush was beginning so Sadie So, Amy, Robyn. J\!annie, Ann, Carol. decided .to set up business (a saloon Geri. Edi, Sheila, Susie, Teri, Marie, Pat, Marilyn, Patty, Mary Chris and any other 
Badin art show a must. Open daily. E towns. There she prospered monetarily interested girls get on the phone. I'm waiting. 
• business, that is) in one of the boom 
: and socially. Gals were scarce -the ratio 

711B OBSERJJER. TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1969
PAGE 6 
Letters to the Editor 
Sextremely wierd 

Editor: Re: ~'The Sex Questionnaire at SMC" (Thurs., Oct. 30) 
I.)t seems ironic that some­thin~s as insignificant as a sex questionnaire can evoke such re­sponse. 
l-The offended, shocked, dis­turbed, attitude displayed by the students makes one wonder what they are afraid people might find out. 
3. It also seems unfair that the survey was only attributed as the work of one student when the person in question did have a partner (who does not attend SMC). 
4. Finally, it strikes this per­

son as extremely weird that only certain types of questions were reported (or sardonically listed) in the "Observer" (an unbiased newspaper?). 
But, what do I know -I'm 

only a freshman! Sincerely, Mary Ann Chory 
ROTC's role 

Editor: 
l believe the question Bernie Ryan and Professor Estabrook wish to raise is not to be limited to a discussion of insufficient representation of the rest of the student body, for clearly most of the student body is content to be represented by that portion of the military complex here on campus, R.O.T.C., 
very nice tranquilizers, but they do not serve to remove the question of accent. Has the United States over-emphasized the role of the military in handling foreign policy? What role does R.O.T.C. have next to the study of non-violence and the humanities? How big a patriot is the R.O.T.C. man when his chances of being sent to Viet Nam are far below the average non-R.O.T.C. graduate? The crossed staves of the Notre Dame war dead drew a sombre veil over the eyes of the 
R.O.T.C. building when they were pounded into the turf across the road during the march on Moratorium Day. 
I asked Chris Wolfe what he thought of Bernie Ryan's proposal, and he replied that he thought Bernie was being a bit paranoic. Good point! However, his fear is not unfounded in an age of the atomic weapon. Paradoxically the threat and the fear of a communist takeover is not out of place nor unfounded! The paranoia of war and the consternation over peace, indeed an interesting situation. 
In the future I only wish displays of the flag to represent the true orientation of the majority in this here democracy. A non-militaristic raising of the stars and stripes could be a beautiful symbol of a turn away fro m fur t her vi o I en t involvements and an orientation toward peaceful settlement of controversy. If this is not to be October 1~-Naturally, the visit would not have been complete without going to the Friday night pep rally. I was told the controversy surrounding the fieldhouse. I was also told how the men of Notre Dame loved the fieldhouse and how the pep rallies just weren't the same in the Athletic and Convocation Cent~r. I smiled but secretly I wondered how anyone could get so attached to a building. I 
walked down the quad, and from what I'd heard about it, I expected to see some shining example of architecture majes­tically waiting to receive the loyal. I must admit I was a little disappointed. 
I went in and was astounded to see wall to wall people. I managed to weave my way through the crowd until I had a good view of the speaker on the balcony. The rally had just started, and I found myself sur­rounded by boys screaming at the top of their collective lungs. I have never seen spirit like that in my life. Then the cry, "field­house, fieldhouse" went up. The emotion was almost tangible. I saw big guys yelling like crazy and not the least embarrassed to scream their affection for their fieldhouse. It was deafening. Then I realized I had joined them and was shouting just as loudly as they. Their enthusiasm was ccntagious. I was astonished to feel a, sudden rush of senti­ment and I was almost in tears at the thought of this marvelous ND men in their fight to save it. After one pep rally, I, too, would hate to see it go. 
Sincerely, Elizabeth Stevens University of Illinois 

Watchdogs of the world Editor: Your stimulating editorial in­scribed "Flag-raising" of the October 24th number had several glaring errors, the refuta­tion of which would accumulate into a weighty tome; so I shall limit myself to one. You have categorically stated that "tradi­tionally the military has been responsible for defending those (American republican) principles at home and abroad." To be a smooth-running, efficient mill­tary machine the U.S. military forces are by necessity com­pelled to repudiate the very basics of Constitutional Law: freedom of the press, the right of free assembly, freedom of speech, swift trial by peers, the notion that one is innocent until proven guilty, habeas corpus, the right of judicial appeal, freedom from involuntary servitude, to mention a few. The phrase "mar­tial law" conjures up a gruesome vision of what happens when the military becomes a Republic's watchdog of principles. For the very reason of self-preservation the Republic has attempted to suppress a Military Establish­ment by the doctrine of a "citi­zen army" and the dogma of "civilian control and leadership" 
Supports soldiers 

Editor: Concerning the article of Jo­seph Carrol in the October 22nd Observer, I think the time has come to make a few points clear from the side of the so-called "love bead peace freaks." Can Mr. Carroll really believe what he has written, or is it just the result of an emotional outburst? He blames those who are against the war for such heinous crimes as pressuring the government to cut the ridiculous 80 billion dol­lar defense budget; which, by any way you peruse it, is billions more than we need to maintain the strength of our armed forces. We are not against you, Mr. Carroll; that is the whole point behind our ac tions. We do support you; we want to bring you home and put an end to the killing which has gone on far past the realm of sanity. It is the people in our government and 
our military who support the war to whom you should address your criticism. They talk of mili­
tary victories and 'peace with honor' while you suffer for their inept handling of the war. You are the 'sacrificial lamb' because they refuse to realize the idiocy of their actions. 
We do not criticize dedication to the ideals upon which this nation was founded, but do you consider the South Vietnamese government of corruption and totalitarianism one which is worthy of such ideals? Surely you don't have to look too far to see 
whose role, ironically enough, the case 1 say Amen, and so ends building being torn down and on the government level. The 
that they couldn't give a damn within the confines of the my catechism. lost to Notre Dame forever. And loss of civilian police control of 
about what happens to you;university was seriously MichaelFeeney I didn't even go to NO. If an law to the Military is the ear-they only want to maintain their questioned during the latter half 312 Grace Hall, '71 outsider could be so touched by mark of a first-rate disaster, and realm of power. Vice-President of last semester and the early the predicament, I could only the hesitancy to let the Military Ky has been quoted as sayingpart of this current semester. Fieldhouse forever imagine how the Notre Dame become the "domestic defenders one 0f his heroes is Hitler; cer­Perhaps removal of the military students felt. I could easily see of our principles" is evidenced tainly you can't want to fightfrom campus was considered Editor: how they had come to love the by the fact that the Army has under the auspices of a demo­unnecessary due to the possible I wanted to write to tell you fieldhouse the way they do. I been called to intervene in a gogue such as he.
withdrawal of American troops about something that made a think I loved it a little myself. domestic crisis only twice in the The tragedy of this miserablefrom Viet Nam in the near deep and lasting impression on It saddened me to know that last 100 years-Detroit in 1943 war is that men like you, patriot­future, and also the institution me. the field house was in a "to be, and again in 1 968. 
ic and dedicated citizens, haveof the Dept. for the study of I visited Notre Dame on the or not to be" situation. I only I should think that the come to view the American peo­Non-Violence, both of which are weekend of the USC game on know that I sympathize with the important symbol to bolsu:. 
ple who are against the war as

F====~==:::::::::===:::==:==:=:=:=:===::::===:::==:::=::=:;;;==========l!your position would be that the your enemy. We are not your symbolic flag is surrendered to enemy, because we do not want the Honor Guard by a non-mili­to see you become just another tary individual who represents number on the weekly death



PA R T T IME 
the will of the electorate. lists. We do not want to have 
The Military Establishment you in some god-forsaken rice can best be compared to a large, paddy wondering what in hell vicious watchdog, the very ap­you're doing there; we want you

W0 RK 
pearance of which will, hope-here with us where you belong. I fully, deter any would-be assail-
am ashamed that my country

GOOD PAY • PICK YOUR 0 WN HOURS 
ant, and which is a useful "de­
has allowed this situation to fender" only if a tight hand is 
degenerate to what it is now,

WORK ON THE 
kept on the leash. and that is my reason for work­
In an age of increasing aware-ing for peace. I am quite certain ness of the role being assumed my feelings are shared by many by the Military in this country, others both here and across the

NOTRE DAME 
the efforts of such gentlemen as 
nation. Our sole intention is to Estabrook and Ryan are laud-save your life and those of all able. It must be remembered other servicemen, and to make that "Eternal vigilance (of the sure that such a situationas Viet­

ALUMNI 
Military) is the price of nam never arises again. We have Unobtrusively, not forsaken you.
DIRE T R 
Liberty!" 
Dave Schmidt 
Gregory P. Adolf 
GRADUATING SENIGrtS 
majoring in 

COME TO ROOM 2C LAFORTUNE 
ACCOUNTING ARCHITECTTJRE


STUDENT CENTER 
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CHEMISTRY ENGINEERING

WEDNESDAY NOV.S 
RECREATION
ALL DAY 9AM TILL 8PM SCIENCE URBAN PLANNING are invited to meet with our representative on campus
Ask for our directory 
THu~SDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1969 
Contact your Placement Office for an appointmentWARD BROWN · JIM ClANCY City of DetruH -Civil Service Commission 

representatives 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1969 711E OBSERfJER. 
PAGE 7 
•



Hesburgh worries that nation IS falling apart 

by Jim Holsinger "I'm worried about this nation breaking apart. As the Kerner Report warned, we're heading toward two America's: one white, one black; one rich, one poor; one educated, one uneducated," said Rev. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh, President of the University of Notre Dame, in the current issue of /,ook Magazine. 
The article, which appears this week in nationally circulated Look Magazine, claims that Hesburgh is "grimly absolute about the necessity for radical social reform to reorient youth and rehabilitate the poor." Hes­burgh is presented nationally as a versatile, hard-line spokesman for civil rights in the United States, and as the optimistic president of a university "steam­ing with ferment." 

Look points out that Hes­burgh has not turned out to be the kind of Chairman Richard Nixon anticipated when he appointed Hesburgh to the chair­manship of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. Most Americans, and probably Richard Nixon also, thought of Hesburgh in relation to the much publicized letter on demonstrations last year. I 
"Now, an aroused Hesburgh confronts the leaders of a comfortable white society with the same bare-knuckled frank­ness that he showed campus anarchists," Look explains. 
SAC tables SMC open house discussion 
by Prudence Wear aborted attempt to put through 
The SMC Student Affairs an open house for last weekend. Committee tabled its discussions "It is quite clear to me that last night on open houses and direct procedures such as door-drinking on campus pending fur-to-door surveys ·do not work, ther studies. and, therefore, the only repre-
The open house bill sent to sentative body left on campus is the Student Affairs Council last the Student Assembly," she said. month was returned to the Com-The majority of the members mittee for revision and clarifica-noted that the students they had tion. Beth Driscoll, SBYP and consulted would prefer an all-Committee Chairman, com-hall vote to turning the decision mented that "the Council felt over to the Assembly. the procedures for determining Sister Immaculata said she felt whether students wanted on the Council's objection to the open house on a partiwlar day original hill was that more stu­were not definitively outlined." dent opinion on the matter was 
McC' andless Senator Carol needed before the procedure Cusick noted then the hall's could he determined. 
TA's distribute. leaflet 
by Mark Walbran Teaching Assistants of the English Department distributed leaflets explaining their request for a salary incrc<tse before the Homecoming game last Satur­day. The T. A.'s, numbering about 30, stationed themselves in the parking lots, and around the library and the administra­tion building in order to inform visitors and alumni about their recent resolution submitted togl' the r with the English Department to Fr. John Walsh, Vice President for Academic Affairs. "We feel pretty happy about it," was the opinion yesterday of Bill Lorimer, a T.A. who teaches two Freshman English courses. lie said that the T.A.'s and other English graduate students distri­buted about 7,000 leaflets. "Our purpose was to make our situation known to the alumni," said Bill Hake, a second year graduate student in English. "It was not so much a confron­tation," he added. llake explained that the leaf­let passed out asked alumni to write Fr. Heshurgh to express their sentiment <thout the T.A. 
Lorimer wrote Fr. Walsh to find out the administration's feeling. He said he received a letter from Walsh "with the usual run-around -that our pro-
Mr. Joseph DiGiovanna of the Philosophy Department moved that they appoint a 'committee to draft a "sound and complete questionnaire" to discern what it is exactly that the students want. 
Sandy Griffin, McCandless Senator, amended the motion with a stipulation that the ques­tionnaire should also be con­cerned with the subject of parie­tal hours. 
A sub-committee was ap­pointed. Mary Bernath, Carol Cusick, Beth Driscoll, Rithie Lyons, Anne O'Brien and Susan Turnbull will present the ques­tionnaire for Committee ap­proval in two weeks. 
Mr. DiGiovanna began the dis­cussion of drinking on campus for students over 21 by request­ing a statement of the benefits and disadvantages for the stu­dents. 
Beth Driscoll stated that the benefits were of two types: per­mitting girls to drink without forcing them into the South Bend bars, and creating the con­venience. 
Disadvantages, she felt, might be the possible tendency by some to indulge to excess, and the probable escalation of house quiet violations. 
The members seemed to feel the main problem would be the procedures of enforcement and punishment in cases where one roommate would not be 21. 
Mr. DiGiovanna pointed out that, according to Indiana law, the legal drinker could be charged with contributing to the delinquency of a minor. He also stated that the mere presence of liquor in her room could convict the minor of possession of an alcoholic beverage. 
Beth Driscoll made the final suggestion that the committee table the discussion and speak with legal agents to ascertain the in's and out's of the situation. 
posal was still 'under consider-1----------;;--:-----::--::----:::---------------l 
ation'." 
Today, Lorimer continued, Notre Dame's T.A. salary is 
"among  the  bottom  1-2%  of  
those  of  all  universities in  the  
country."  

Lorimer said that the T.A.'s may go on a "grade strike" next semester if they receive no favor­able response from the adminis­tration. A grade strike means that the T.A.'s would withhold grades from university records. In this way. he explained, the students themselves wouldn't suffer. He strongly emphasized that the T. A.'s are primarily concerned with their students. 
Presently. Lorimer said, the T.A.'s are represented by their own "ad hoc" committee. He said that, although they were not now working directly through the Graduate Student Union (G.S.U.), he hoped that later this wt:ek they would be informed of the c;.s.u. senti­ment. 
ive! In Concert! 
The 
ELVIN JONES 
Trio Elvin Jones , drums Wilbur Little, bass Joe Farren, tenor and f1ute 
Wednesday, November 5 8:00p.m. WASHINGTON HALL 
General Admission $2 Students $1 
Hlvin Jones was Coltrane s"main man" 
H/vin Jones won Down Beat's most recent Readers Poll as "/Jest Drummer" 
H/Pin .Iones has been named "Best Drummer" in Down Beat's International Jazz critics poll /or the last seven years. 
H/vin .Iones is the world's greatest drummer. 
• 

Co-sponsored by Michiana Friends ol Jazz and the Collegiate Jazz FestiPal. 
Much of the Look interview 

presents Hesburgh in relation­ship to Notre Dame. Actionists on campus describe Hesburgh as 
a gradualist, one student describes him as a "tragic hero," but Look ex plains what Hesburgh is to the comfortable American. 
"Cologned with the sweet smell of success, he has dis­covered that in the houses of the rich and powerful, there is also the stink of death," says Look. 
"Time is running out on us as a nation," says Hesburgh. 

• 
~any-have movedw. 

but the ~ulists 
8tay0n... 

The Paulisls arrived on lhe West Side of New Yorl-City in 1858. In 1895 lhcy moved into San Francisco·~ China­town and inlo lhe fringes of Chicago's Loop in 1904. They're still !here. Times change. Neighborhoods change. Sometimes lhcy go up. Somclimcs Ihey go down­but lhrough it all lhc Paulist stays. As long as !here arc people to be served 1hc l'aulisl will be !here. The l'aulist may be in lhc 
same old place but he con­stanlly docs IICII' lhings. That's one of the characlcristics of the Paulisl order: using !heir own individual lalcnls in new ways to mcel ·I he needs of a fast-changing world in lhc col­leges ... in communicalions ... in the ghctlos. If you have given some !hough! to becoming a Pries!, wrile for an illustraled hrochurc and a copy of our recent Renewal Chapter Gui<.h:lines. Write to: 
Vocation Director 

cpaulisth
'Pat etC 
Room 200 415 West 591h Street New York, N.Y. 10019 

request. The leaflet also asked r------------~--------------------------.....L-..:'!..__________~:_1 
alumni making contributions, to designate part of their contri­bution to the proposed salary increase of the T.A.'s. The leaf­let also included tht: address of the Notre Dame English Associa­tion so people would know the source for further information. Presently, Hake explained, T.i\.'s who teach and T.A.'s who merely assist professors receive tht: same salary-$2,100 for a nine-month year. "And this is a problem," he said. 111111111111111111111 
Correction 

In the October 31 issue of The Observer, Professor Godfrey 
C. Henry was quoted in tQe story on Black Studies as saying " ...the white student would have a real and experimental exposure..." to Black Studies. What Henry actually said was that the student would have " .. . real and experiential exposure. 

yER pOl..! 
1..1 AT

pROP Wp ... COME TO THE 
SADIE HAWKINS DANCE 
November 7 9 tlll1 a.m. Indiana Club Music by the "Magnificent Seven" Tickets on Sale at S.M.C. Dining Hall 
,. THE OBSERVER. TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1969
PAGE 8 







Pangborn, Zahm remain 

Zahm 8-Breen-Philips 8 half Morrissey broke the game 
Zahm remained the only open with a razzle dazzle 48 undefeated team in League 3 as yard play. Chris Ballman flipped they came from behind to a pass to Steve Temiso who squeeze out a tie with carried the ball down to the 30 
Breen-Philips. Breen-Philips where he pitched back to a scored ·in the first half after a surprised Bill Toffler. Toffler fine 33 yard pass play, Tom didn't waste much time in Joseph to Bob May, moved the making the adjustment from ball to the Zahm six. From there downfield blocker to ball carrier Joseph carried for the score. as he raced 30 yards for the Tom Egan ran for the two point score. Morrissey added another conversion. Zahm came back in TD on an 18 yard aerial, the second half when Paul Tufts Ballman to Breen. Jim Shula's fired a pass to George Phelps in two point conversion made the the left flat; Phelps shook off final 22-0. tacklers and went 44 yards for Stanford 7-Keenan 6 the TD. Bruce Curson scored the Stanford upset Keenan's 
crucial two point conversion championship hopes with a stun­which enabled Zahm to come ning 7-6 victory. Keenan led 6-0 away with a tie. at the half on a seven yard Morrissey 22 -Lyons 0 reverse by Joe Simpson. Keenan An alert Morrissey team rolled remained in control until the
• 
over Lyons on the strength of final minutes of the game. With three TD passes. Morrissey's first time running out and Stanford TD came on an eight yard pass in possession on its own 26 yard from Jeff Shula to Paul Breen. line Miki Kane cut loose a per­Jim Shula scored the two point feel long bomb to Rick Harris. conversion to give Morrissey an Harris took the ball a step be­8 -0 halftime lead. In the second hind the Keenan defenders and 
Standings Section B Section A: League Ill w L T Zahm I 0 I
League I w L T Farley I I 0Pangborn 2 0 0 Cavanaugh I I 0Holy Cross 2 I 0 Breen-Philips 0 I I
Morrissey I 2 0 lyons 0 2 0 

league II w L T League IV w L T (lff-Campus 3 0 0 Grace-St. Ed's 2 0 I Dillon 2 I I Keenan 2 I I Walsh I I I Stanford 2 I 0 Alumni 0 2 I Carroll I 2 0 Sorin 0 2 I Flanner 0 3 0 
Ruggers record split 
A 9 -0 defeat at the hands of hard-running Irish backs and the the Chicago Rugby Club to defense posted their third settle for a aplit of their ~hutout of the season. weekend action and left the Irish 
Unfortunately, the Irish were
with a record of four wins and 
unable to continue their fine
two losses on the season. 

play on Sunday. and succumbed Notre Dame started the 
to a strong Chicago U. squadweekend off well by handing the 
mad~ up chiefly of graduateUniversity of Iowa a 14 -0 
student s. The experiencedsetback Saturday begind the 
Chicago team combined a pair of Stepan Center. Bill Berry's two 
penalty kicks, a try, and an alert trys, good for six pcmts,-led the 
defense that kept the Irish Irish offense. Tom Hurlehy and 
bottled up in their own territoryPaul Rogers each made a try and 
most of the game into a John Laino booted a conversion 
well-earned triumph.kick to complete the scoring. The Irish were strong in all Notre Dame will travel to facets of the game against Iowa Loutsville, Kentucky, for their as the serum consistently gained next match as they oppose the possession of the ball for the U. of Louisville on Saturday. 
went into high gear as he outdis­yard O'Donnell to McDermott tanced them to the end zone. pass. However. Walsh came right Kane then booted the extra hack and capped a fine drive point which gave the game to with a 6 yard TD run by Porter 
Stanford. Simpson intercepted for the 12-6 margin. two passes for Keenan as did Pangborn 20-Holy Cross 0 Terry Berringer for Stanford. In this brutal battle of two Walsh I 2 -Sarin 6 
unbeaten teams Pangborn 
proved the stronger. The first 
Walsh's fine passing game was half was a virtual stalemate as just a bit too much for Sorin. On neither team was able to score. the first set of downs Dave The second half was a different Porter threw for a 4 7 yard pick­story as it was all Pangborn. up to John Nesline on the John Tatu threw a 30 yard TD famous sleeper play. Nesline had pass to Corky Castegnaro for the pretended to go to the bench game's first score. After Pang­but much to Sarin's dismay, h~ horn's defense forced Holy Cross never quite left the field. Porter to relinquish possession Tatu then rifled two I 2 yard passes to fired a 26 yard pass to Terry Lee Chris Stephan, the second one 
for Pangborn's second score. Jer­for the TD. Sorin tied up the 
ry Giureto added the extra game in the second half on a 26 
point. Pangborn's final tally 
came on a 49 yard sweep of left end hy Joe Dibartolomeo. Giure­to once again converted. Dillon 8 -Alumni 6 

Dillon squeaked hy Alumni in a hard fought game between the two neighboring halls. Dillon's TD came in the first half on a 6 yard rollout around right end by speedy Gene Sullivan. Steve Ising added what proved to be the margin of victory on his two point conversion run. Later in the half Alumni's Lou Ferrello passed 26 yards to Bob Single­ton who made a diving catch on the I yard line. From there big Bill Niezer hulled over for the score. The second half was score­less as Dillon hung on for the victory. 
Carroll over Planner by forfeit. 
Chuck Bavis and Frank Leahy under care, Indiana and Michigan State unveil changes 
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. (UP!) 

The career of Purdue's seven foot tall Chuck Davis, a Boilermaker basketball player, was in the hands of doctors at Robert Long Hospital Monday. Davis, starting center for the team, suffen:d a severe leg injury in an auto accident early Satur­day \\hen his car slammed into a rock, two trees and a fence near his home in Garrett. Purdue basketball coach George King said David ' s progress, after major surgery on the leg, appean:d good, although one physician said Davis' knee will be "highly unstable" even if the leg is saved. King said he was told by doctors, if everything goes well, Davis will have full use of the leg. 
CHICAGO (UPI) Frank Leahy, one of the most success­ful football coaches in college history. was reported "respond­ing well" Monday at Passavant Hospital to treatment for a urological infection. 
A hospital spokesman said Leahy, 62, now a Chicago newspaper and tekvis; :>n sports analyst, entered the hospital Sunday night and was expected to remain there for a week to l 0 days. 
Leahy was football coach at Boston College from 1939 to 1941 and at Notre Dame Umver-

Sophomore halfba~k Hob Min.nix, here taking a Bill Etter hand-off and following blocking Andy Huff. had the best day of h1s bnef varsll y career against Navy, totaling 4 2 yards in seven carries. 
sity from 1941 until he retired in 1954 because of ill health. His overall coaching record was I07 wins, I 3 defeats and 9 ties. 
******** 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (UP!) -The Indiana University foot­ball team came away form its Ih 0 win over Michigan State Saturday in good physical and mental condition, but Coach John Pont was determined to find out why his Hoosiers had so much trouble scoring. 
"I doublt if any team ever moved the ball 479 yards with­out scoring a touchdown," Pont said. 
The Hoosiers' lone touch­down came on a punt return by sprint champion Larry lligh­baugh, although three oi.her drives ended in field goals by Don Warner. 
Tht: move of llighbaugh to defensive halfback last week may have provided an answer to a leaky pass defense with which the Hoosiers were afflicted be­fore the MSU game. MSU con­nected on only six of 27 passes and none of the completions was thrown by the regular quarter­back BqJ Triplett. 
EAST LANSING, !Vhch. (UP!) 

Michigan State Coach Duffy Daugherty said Monday his pre­parations for Saturday's home­coming game with Purdue in­clude changing starting quarter­back Bill Tripktt into a wide receiver, with sophomore Steve Piro starting at quarterback. 
The change followed a 16-0 loss to In diana Saturday in which Triplett failed to com­plete any of I I pass attempts. When Triplett left the game in the fourth quarter Spartan fans booed him. 
Daugherty said Triplett re­quested the change. The coach said he felt bad about Triplett "become a scapegoat for the team's troubles." 
MSU is 3-4 for the season and 1-3 in the Big Ten play. 
"Triplett has never wanted to be quarterback," Daugherty said. "I'm not going to see him crucified any more." 
He said Triplett will play either as a flanker or split end for the rest of the season. 

Soccer: Double victory 
Notre Dame Soccer team finally got back on the winning track this weekend with two big victories. The first was, in every sense of the word. a gift Loyola faikd to field a team and tht: Irish were awarded a l 0 for­feit. 
Sunday's match with the Uni­versity of Chicago was a little more impressivt• as the Irish breezt•d to a 6 I triumph. The hno of this game was Tom Shriver who was actually a spot starter. Shriver pulkJ the "hat Irick" and boot cd homc 3 goals. 
Other scorers were Tim Patton, John Pedrotty and Jim Schweit1er each with I marker. Assists were provided by Patton with 2 and Bruce Gr::lves and Fred Rohol with I. 
The l rish have only two g<nncs remaining and inJuries are bcgin­ning to take their toll of till' squad. The record now stands al S 3 2. 1\J) will be gunning for win number 6 next Saturday as they trawl to Western Illinois. The season finale will be Nov. I 5 at home versus Marquette. 

Harriers belted byMSU 
The Irish harriers were out­classed. outran and out scored last Friday afternoon as the Michigan State Spartans piled it on ND to the tum· of I 5 49. State swept the first six finishers en route to thl'ir victory. Dave Diefer won individual honors as he circled the Burke Memorial (;oJI'Course in a finl' 24: 17.S. 
The best effort for Notre Dame came onL"e again from team captain Bob Watson. W<Jt­son's 24:SX time was good e­nough for seventh place in a scoring field that included 13 runners. Next meet for the Irish is Nov. 7 against Indiana State. MSU's record now stands at 5-I and the Irish are still looking for their first triumph as opposed to 3 defeats. 









