
Student Assembly votes new curfews at SMC 
student sign out twenty-four
In its first meeting, the 

houurs before departure. 
Student Assembly voted last 

Enforcement of these regula­
Fort as blasted, may resign 
night toabolish the Class Vice 

tions will be carried out through
President offices. A second 

arbitrary bed check and tele­
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Rep. the stock market Jaws. Taft made his statement in motion combined Class Secre­
phone calls to the destination of
Robert Taft Jr., (R.-Ohio), "I have the feeling that unless response to questions while tary and Treasurer into one posi­
freshman signed out for the
predicted yesterday a bill of he explains further, explaining a bill he and Sen. tion. The Assemblywomen based 
weekend.
impeachment will be filed impeachment is a good Robert Griffin, (R.-Mich.), plan their decision on the movement 
The formulation of these reg­
against Supreme Court Justice possibility," Taft told a news to introduce today. It would for the hall government to take 
ulations does not preclude ex­
Abe Fortas unless there is conference. require federal judges to file over activities which the classes 
tension of upperclass hours to
further explanation of a fee he Under the constitution, information about their income, had handled. 
second semester freshmen. The
accepted from financier Louis impeachment proceedings must property holdings, gifts, 
Prior to these proposals, the Student Affairs Committee is
Wolfson. begin in the House. If a bill of honorariums and fees. Similar 
Assembly approved the appoint­studying such a bill now.
Fortas said he took a fee, but impeachment is agreed to by the requirements are now in the Jaw 
ments made by SBP Susan After discussing the manner in
later returned it when he House, the Senate then acts as a for senators and congressmen. 
Turnball to the commissions of which delegates to the NSA
discovered he would not be able court in trying the impeached Griffin told the news 
Student Services Organization. Congress have been selected in 
to advise and write for Wolfson's official. conference there was "more 
Sophomore Deborah Leahy re­the past, the Assembly agreed to
family foundation. Wolfson has Any House member may file information" yet to come out 
ceived approval as Student Body forego this election. The Execu­
since gone to jail for violation of an impeachment resolution. It about the Fortas affair. He said 
Secretary, and Junior Marsha tive Council, made up of student 
it bore on the Wolfson affair, 
Eliff's application to retain her body officers and class presi­
but he declined to elaborate.
'Over -expenditure' 
position as Student Body dents, will appoint SMC dele­
Griffin led the successful fight 
Treasurer was accepted. 

gates and alternates. All appoint­
last year against confirmation of 
After lengthy debate, the ments aare subject to the appro­

cause of gov't deficit 
Fortas as Chief Justice, a post he 
Assembly restructured first sem­val of the Student Assembly.
was selected for by President
The present $1 0,000 deficit in ble," Coughlin declared. ester freshman curfew regula­Next week's agenda will
Lyndon B. Johnson, a close
student government expendi­At the Senate meeting Tues­tions. In September, freshmen include discussion of enforce­
friend.
tures is primarily the result of day night, Coughlin asked for a will have a 12:00 a.m. weekday ment procedures for all regula­
During that fight, Griffin
"over expenditure" by the referendum on the question of and 2 a.m. weekend curfew as tions which appear in the
brought out that Fortas had
Academic Commission, and the raising the activity fee by $2.00. adopted in 1968. Freshmen will, Student Manual.
accepted a $15,000 fee raised
Social Commission, Student The present fee is $16.00. He however, be allowed three per­A proposal to form a subcom­
from former private associates
Government Treasurer John claims that added revenue would missions per semester to sign out mittee of the Assembly on
for conducting a legal seminar at 
Coughlin said yesterday. amount to approximately as an upperclassman, eliminating Student Power with its chairman 
American University.
Coughlin estimated the her curfew. The Student Body acting as NSA Co-ordinator will
$11,000. 

would then be referred to the
Academic Commissions deficit Coughlin said, "This money President also retains the power also come before the body. The
House Judiciary Committee for
to be in the neighborhood of would be applied directly to the to grant universal late permis­Assembly will also consider a bill
consideration. Later, if the
$5,000, while the Social Com­debt. Last year, when they sions to all freshmen as the need to abolish required attendance at
committee and the House voted 
arises.

missions deficit from $6,000 to raised the fee, it was promised an Open Forum or speeches by 
the impeachment, the Senate
$8,000. lie stressed though that for all sorts of thing.'>, and was Overnight sign out procedure the candidates before a student 
would conduct the actual 
in effect now will continue for

all these figures arc estimates. used up and not applied to the may vote in student body
impeachment trial.
"No figures will be definite debt." next year. This requires that a elections. until August 31st," Coughlin Coughlin also said that the said. Student Government budget An enormous part of the would definitely be cut next 

Faculty Senate discusses ROTC 
Social Commission deficit will year. 
he made up of losses incurred "The Academic Commission Notre Dame's Faculty Senate vote on these delegates for SLC. degree program in the specific 
if (;rand Prix is not a money-will not get as much as they did passed a resolution last night The entire resolution area of military training or 
maker. this year," he claimed, "Nor will concerning the consideration of concerning ROTC which was studies." 
"If (;rand Prix is successful, the Social Commission." academic credit for ROTC presented to thee Senate by the The student publication's 
then the Social Commission Coughlin plans to set up a courses. Two other resolutions Committee on University resolution was recommended to 
deficit will be less," Coughlin "fund earmarked for absolutely involving student publications Admin is t ration stated, the Senate by the Committee on 
declared. "Any profit we make nothing." This would be used to and the financial policy "Resolved, that academic credit Student Affairs. The first point 
will he channeled into the relieve any unexpec.:tcd deficit, concerning faculty retirement be granted only for courses brought out in this report stated, 
scholarship fund. We just want "in case of debt." were also passed. taught by faculty members "Student publications should be 
to get hack expenses." If the Senate refuses to allow Prior to the passage of the holding an appointment in one free of censorship and advance 
Coughlin cited two projects, the referendum, or if the stu-resolutions, the faculty Senate of the regular (that is, approval of copy, and their 
one by each commission, whose dents vote it down, then Student elected officers for next year. non-military) departments of the editors and managers should be 
losses made up large parts of Government will be forced to Replacing Edward Murphy, University; that appropriate free to develop their own 
their respective deficits. One was operate on a "drastically re-Professor of Law, as the authorities may select, certify, editorial policies and news 
the Black Power Conference, duced budget." Chairman of the Senate was or otherwise designate any coverage." 
which was run hy the Academic "The Academic and Social Joseph Tihen, Associate number of such courses for the The resolution also states, 
Commission, and lost $4,000, Commissions would receive the Professor of Law. Daniel Pasto, purposes of the Reserve Officers however, "Each student 
while the play, "A funny Thing most cuts," Coughlin claimed. Associate Professor of Training program; that no limit publication should have a 
Happened on the way to the When asked what was the Chemistry, was elected Vice in terms of credit hours be separate tripartite board of 
Forum," run on junior parents primary reason for the deficit, Chairman and Salvatore Bella placed on the number of such directors responsible for the 
weekend, by the social commis-Coughlin said "It's a question of became the new Treasurer. Rev. courses that students may select publication policy and standards 
sion, lost $5,000. too many people trying to put Leonard Banas returned as other than those limits imposed of quality of the publication, the 
"This deficit was no one's on too much. We're trying to Secretary of the Senate. by the degree programs of the appointment of editors, and 
fa u I I. The people upstairs give the students a lot of activi-Nine faculty members were several departments and colleges; their removal for cause." The 
thought these things would go, ties, but we have to realize that also nominated to fill the three however, that in no sense docs just "cause" will be decided by 
but they didn't. Anything these there are limits we have to stay open posts in the Student Life this imply recommendation or the SLC when it considers this 
two commissions do is a gam-within," Coughlin stated. Council. The entire faculty will approval of a major or other report. 
::···············~!~·········~~···;···:·····ii······iii·················:;:·;~:~::;;:················ i 

THE O&rERfJU. 

Senior week activities altered 

Senior Class President Dave will feature 80 gallons of Rhein Witt and Senior Week Chairman and Rose wines as well as a large AI Knappenberger today an-assortment of American and im­nounced a major restructuring of ported cheese. Additionally, the schedule of events for Senior there will be an unlimited supply Week. Originally planned as a of free beer. Entertainment will series of six activities the new • include W.C. Fields' movies and schedule calls for a reduction of the sounds of ththe Jug Band. that number to four, as well as Tuesday is being billed as other changes in format. "The Longest Happy Hour 
The new Senior Week pro-Ever." Seniors will be able to gram will be kicked off Monday, purchase two drinks for the May 12 with a free Wine and price of one all night long at the Cheese Feast at the Alumni Alumni Club. Club. Beginning at 8:00 p.m. Wednesday night will feature and open to all seniors, the event a free Viking Meal at. the Alumni 

,.----------------------------------------, Club. Sirloin beef and ham will be supplemented by thousands of hamburgers and hot dogs-all of which will be washed down by an unlimited supply of free 
@> 196jj. A.HM 
beer. Tommy and the Tornadoes will play the best of early rock. 
Senior Week will conclude Thursday with a Traditional Pub Crawl. On that night, local tavern owners have agreed to 





Share the 
\Vorldwithyour 
give special discounts to mem­bers of the senior class upon presentation of a "Bar Certifi­cate." Certificates will be avail­able at all Senior Week activities. 

:man. 

The week's festivities will con­clude with free beer at the Alumni Club from 1·-3 a.m. 
According to Witt, the changes in format were prompted byy several factors: "We were faced with a problem of quantity versus quality. By consolidating the number of activities, we have, I think, strengthened the program over­all. Consolidation has also per­mitted us to open up all of the activities to all of the senior class. 
Board formed 
Rick Libowitz, head of the 
Free University, announced the 
formation of next year's Advi­
sory Board. 
The board will give suggest­
ions for courses, as well as deter­
mining course leaders and poli­
cies. Notre Dame's representa­
tives will be Paul Guernsey, Phil 
Welchman, Ed Roickle, and 
Mike Kelly. Ellen Rogers will 
represent the South Bend cam­
pus of Indiana University. 

Collegiate Scholars are named 
Juniors Michael P. O'Connor, Stephen Raymond, Eric San­deen, and Thomas Talcott have been named Collegiate Scholars, and will study under special faculty supervision next year. 
The four juniors, while audi­ting a few classes next year, will spend most of their time on special projects. 
M:chiana's Sports Car Capitol 
GO HOLL vtiiiOOD! MAINTAIN YOUR COOL 

Jaguar George is offering a free pair ofsunglasses and an A SCOT with evet:v sporty car (what ev~ry sporty driver should have); he U even buy your first 1,000 miles of gas. You can't beat a deal like that with a big stick' 
Thi~ we~k's poverty program special: '63 Studebaker Hawk ·-great shape ...$495 * 
see Jaguar George at 
PEPPER'S !\rOTORS 
3105 W. Sample St. South Bend, Ind. 
289-7788 

*f-aculty suj)ject to usual shaft job!! 
Michael P. O'Connor plans to study the hero and· heroine of sensibility in the novel from literature of the eighteenth cen­tury to the present, dealing also with the philosophy and history of the period. 
Stephen Raymond will deal with the question of how men come to claim to know some­thing, looking at the writings of noted authors in philosophy, his­tory, theology, and other areas. 
Eric Sandeen plans a senior year in which he will be involved in a project dealing with com­parative literature of Germany and America, dealing especially in the area of national conscious­ness. 
Thomas Talcott will be studying the problems of the twentieth century American city. Concentrating first on the history of the city, he will con­sider its economic, social and governmental aspects. 
The scholars will meet month­ly to discuss their projects with a committee of faculty members, and on a more regular basis with individual advisors. 

THREE WEEKENDS OF HORROR  
Showings at 7:00 & 10:30  Engineering Auditorium  
2  
A Honda parks in spaces cars can't use. Runs around all week on a gallon of gas. Slashes your insur­ance tab. Costs less to keep up. And can cost less initially than a car down-payment. With so many things it's little about, isn't it ironical that a Honda can make you such a charitable B.M.O.C.?  May9 MaylO May 11  MARK OF THE VAMPIRE TOMB OF LIGEIA LITTLE SHOP OF HORRORS THE FLY DRACULA ATTACK OF THE CRAB MONSTERS  J  
HONDA See your Honda dealer for a color brochure, safety pamphlet and "InVISible Circle" film; or write: Amefican Honda Motor Co., Inc.. Dept. C-16, Box 50, Gardena. California 90247  ROAD RUNNER CARTOONS EVERY NIGHT e . server is published daily during the college semester except vacatiOns by th_e students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary•s College. Subscroptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11. Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid Notre Dame lnd 46556. • .  


THURSDAY, MAY 8, 1969 
WHO CARES ABOUT 
STUDENT OPINION? BUSINESSMEN DO. 

Three chief executive officers-The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company's Chairman. Russell DeYoung, The Dow Chemical Company's President. H. D. Doan. and Motorola's Chairman. Robert W. Galvin-are responding to serious questions and viewpoints posed by 
Oear Mr. DeYoung: 
There is evidence that we of the ...id-twentieth century are engaged in a social and economic revolution equal in magnitude and in impact to the industrial revolution of the mid-eighteenth century. 

Instead of hand tools giving way to power-driven machines, though, man-run machines are giving way to computer-run machines. Many phases of business and industry which once depended exclusively on human effort (e.g. accounting, quality control, purchase ordering, and even sales) are already showing the intrusion of computers. Someday, machine-computer-computer­machine complexes may eliminate most human participation in industry. 
Such change will produce several significant results (they've already started!): 

1. 
The rapid decrease in need for unskilled and semi-skilled labor. 

2. 
The ever accelerating need to retrain personnel to move from obsolete jobs to newly created ones. 

3. 
The requirement that those frequent technological retraining periods be with full pay (i.e. elimination of a job should not produce unemployment). 

4. 
The need for economic stability with nearly 100% of our labor force employed. (The need for 3%-5% unemployment is not directly evident.) 

5. 
The increasing emphasis on service industries. As proportionately more people are involved in research, teaching, counseling, etc., our society will lose its production-consumption basis. 


What are you, an American businessman, doing to avoid massive social disorientation, such as was experienced in nineteenth century England in the wal<e of the industrial revolution, as we shift to a service-oriented society? How wiiJ' the excluded millions start to feel and to become a benefiting part of the changing society? 
Yours truly,/:7./1 I ]:( ,
//~'Z-~ .'/J~y-a f. L-
Mark Bookspan · 
Pre-Med, Ohio State 

71lE 0~------------------------------------P-AG_E_J~ 
students about business and its role in our changing society . and from their perspective as heads of maior corporations are exchanging views through means of a campus /corporate Dialogue Program on specific issues raised by leading student spokesmen. 
Here. Mark Bookspan, an Ohio State Chemistry major, who plans a medical career. is exploring issues with Mr. DeYoung. 

In the course of the full Dialogue Program, David G. Clark. a Master of Arts candidate at Stanford University, also will explore issues with Mr. DeYoung, as will David 
M. Butler, Electrical Engineering, Michigan State. and Stan Chess. Journalism. Cornell, with Mr. Doan; similarly, Arthur M. Klebanoff, Government. Yale, and Arnold Shelby, Latin American Studies, Tulane, with Mr. Galvin. 
These Dialogues will appear in this publication and other campus newspapers across the country, throughout this academic year. Campus comments are invited, and should be forwarded to Mr. DeYoung, Goodyear. Akron Ohio; Mr. Doan, Dow Chemical, Midland, Michigan; or Mr. Galvin, Motorola. Franklin Park, /1/inois, as appropriate. 
Mr. DeYoung: 

Ma(~hincs a1·c i11••• 
J•copll~ oul... Net: 
llassivc SO(~ial disorit~nln.tion 
Dear Mr. Bookspan: 
The fear that human beings will be made obsolete by machines, and the prospects of a resulting massive social disorientation, has prompted cries of alarm since the harnessing of steam power and the invention of the mechanical loom. 
These traditional forebodings have become increasingly vocal in some quarters with the continuously wider applications of automation. As the litany goes: Automated machines controlled by computers are self-adjusting, repairing, and programming without human labor ... can outperform any worker at the task undertaken, and likely outthink him as well. Inevitably more and more workers will be replaced with each progressively sophisticated generation of computer complexes, and unemployment will rise to crisis proportions. 
Historically these fears have proven groundless, and there is no reasonable basis to conclude any catastrophic developments in the future with increased automation. 
There is no end to the needs of human beings as they have more disposal income and more leisure time. Without automation, we would not have had the capacity to fulfill the demands of a constantly increasing standard of living. 
As a matter of fact, while 
automation does cause displacement it does not cause significant unemployment. 
Quite to the contrary, 
automation has created more jobs than it has destroyed. The development of the computer 
is a good example. Actually, 
there is greater employment 
now than would have been the 
case if the technological 
advances brought about by 
automation had not occurred. 
This is illustrated by industry's 
experience during the ten-year 
period er:ding in 1965. 

Approximately 58-million additional jobs were created, while some 50-million jobs were eliminated, leaving a net gain of 8-million positions. Significantly, technology in a large measure prompted the job gain, but was not the major cause of job losses. Rather this resulted more from increased wage rates occasioned by statute and agreements negotiated with unions, and for the most part affected unskilled jobs, as might be expected. 
The displacement. or redeployment, of workers 
resulting from automation certainly is no cause for alarm. Quite frequently, people are 
released from lower-paying jobs and advance to better­
paying positions. all brought about by automation.Most 
firms applying newly available technologies retrain and place their employees in new 
positions, and invarii:lbly experience the need for additional personnel as well. 
For the most part this means an upgrading of skills along with an increased income-earning potential, and rpanded employment. 
Compare the significant increase in the total work 
force of over 70-million, with average earnings of $2.50 per hour, to that of 63-million in 1955 whose hourly earnings averaged $2.00 (equivalent 1965 dollars). In other words, wage rates and employment both rose during a decade that witnessed considerable automated innovations. 
Aside from these bare-bones statistical facts. the impact of 
automation is measurable in other terms; namely, the increasing release of man from dawn-to-dark drudgery. Through the utilization of 
machines in lieu of brute force to increase productivity, significantly greater numbers have been able to shift to exciting new occupations that mean for them larger incomes and fuller lives. A vast spectrum of new activities through . increasing applications of automation is profoundly affecting our whole mode of life. The future potential is as great as man's imaginative intelligence can develop. 
Sincerely, 


Russell DeYoung Chairman; The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company 


711E OBSERVER 

Letters to the editor 
Hall segregation 
ness the gaudy, expensive and



THE OBSERVER 
tasteless dedication ceremonies
Editor: 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
TIMOTHY J. O'MEILIA, Editor-in-Chief DONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Executive Editor DAVID M. BREEN, Business Manager 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

An Tostal weekend 
I would like to voice my objection to the current action that Dillon, Alumni, and Walsh halls have taken regarding on campus housing for Negroes. I believe the measures of segregation these halls have taken are unfair and unhealthy to the cintirtuating existence of Notre Dame as a community; I feel this way for the following three reasons: 
l) 
Having blacks room together in definite sections of certain halls will {:ertainly be easier on the black man; he will not have to continually prove to those immediately around him that the black man is equal to or better than the white man, since those around him will be of his own color. But, this is not what the black man should want if he wishes to be accepted as a person; he has to live with the rest of the community to become an integral part of it. 

2) 
Having blacks room together will cause the blacks to be stereotyped; they will not be thought of as individuals, which is what they are. Thus, this move will promote racism. If blacks are not thought of and approached as individuals it will definitely harm the community and even more so the blacks. If the whites are not able to come into contact with the blacks, obviously the white's concept of the black will not be able to improve; it will remain stagnant, and most likely incorrect or distorted. 

3) 
Lastly, rooming blacks together in large groups is unfair to all other Notre Dame men. Room selection has always been based on seniority, grades, and stay hall rules. This year, being a freshman I was not able to get the room I wanted or the roomates I wanted to room with next year. Therefore, why should a freshman if he does not have a better average than I do, have the opportunity to room together with his friends in a 



good  hall  just  because  he  is  
black.  
Therefore,  I  would  like  to  

restate that grouping the Notre Dame black men in certain sections of the three dorms will be a grave and serious mistake. 
Brian M. O'Connoror, Class of '72 
Joel replies 
Editor: 
I hate to get into a contro­versy with the officials of Notie Dame's "Ministry of Propaganda and_ Public Enlightenment," but 

I feel I must respond to Mr. Murphy's letter of Monday. I suppose the man did the campus a service of sorts in pointing out that the new dorm is named for Joseph R. (instead of J. Peter) Grace. Also, he was right in saying that J. Peter Grace holds an honorary degree from N.D. and has received the Laetere Medal. I would point out, how­ever, that both awards are "for sale," in other words given to prominent contributors from time to time. They in no way indicate that Mr. Grace is or is not an ethical or honorable man. After all, Curtis LeMay was once Patriot of the Year. 
In a larger sense, though, Mr. Murphy has operated on a sur­face level. This is understandable since the hierarchy of this uni­versity is dedicated to the fur­therance of image as opposed to the promotion of substance, wit-for the Hayes-Healy Center. Mr. Murphy conveniently ignores three major points I first made 
,concerning Grace Hall. 
l)The Hall was named in lieu of financial considerations as op­posed to the moral considera­tions which would have dictated naming it for Dr. Martin Luther King: 
2)The naming coincided with the first anniversary of the death of the slain civil rights leader, an anniversary of meditation and re-dedication elsewhere; 
3 )The request of the Student Senate that the dorm be named for Dr. King was disdainfully ignored. 
Now even if Mr. Murphy pre­sented no substantial points I would like to comment on one I have received by word of mouth. This is that Notre Dame had to name the dorm after fatcats sim­ply in order to get the money to build them. I accept the point 
on practical grounds, even though I am nauseated at the thought of having a "Carmichel Hall" on this campus. However, I would point to one other opportunity to honor Dr. King. The Memorial Library has never formally been named. Jt is an open high-level secret that the building may be named for Father Hesburgh when he gets his red hat and finally leaves. Perhaps "Lc Grand Theodore" can be persuaded that Dr. King was in fact a greater moral leader than himself and deserves the honor. It will be quite a task of persuasion, but perhaps it can be accomplished. 
Joel Connelly 216 Farley 
Worth of ROTC 
Though I will probably sign my name to this letter, I might just as well sign my l. 0. number, my draft card number, my ad­dress, my telephone number, etc. Though we presume each of us is worth more than the total of his digits, still we are each day more objectified and deperson­alized-and the necessity of indi­vidual choice and conscience grows greater with that threat. The principle of personal choice and identity (particularly in our specious democracy) is basic, and each tries to discover and develop his own identity. And yet we should remenber that the choice of facelessness is also a choice, that a voluntary capitula­tion to the forces of depersonali­zation is the prerogative of the individual. If any student chooses to subject himself to the brutalization and depersonaliza­tion of the ROTC program, his choice is his and should be re­spected. The Army, like the SDS, the lacrosse team, or Film Society, deserves to exist as an estracurricular opportunity for those who choose it. Yet, though we also learn from the SDS, the lacrosse team, and the films, still we are not given academic credit for them. Those who choose the dubious advan­tages of the ROTC program 
should not inconsistently be a­warded credits for their choice unless credit is also given to 

those who  choose other activi­ 
ties.  
Steve Tapscott  
221 Sorin  

The Hall Presidents Council and J.E. Brogan describe this An Tostal weekend as a "dazzling ode to sun and surf." We're not quite sure where the surf is coming from and in Indiana the sun is always a question mark, but regardless, the weekend i's full of many different games, contests, and assorted trivia, and amazingly inexpensive. 
An Tostal was conceived and inaugurated last spring. It was quite successful. This year the HPC has increased the "merrymaking" to include the selection of a queen, an expanded Gentle Thursday, and an Irish Barn Pary Saturday night. 
The whole idea of stacking beer cans, racing beds, milking cows, or even chasing pigs can seem ridiculous, yet last year it was proven that these simple diversions were really a lot of fun. In fact, many have said it was the best time they had all year. 
When one considers the cost of this weekend compared to other "gala ND weekends", he cannot be faulted for thinking something is wrong. The allotments for the weekend from Student Government and the hall councils add upup to about fifty cents per student. For an additional five dollars any student can throw a lot of pies, dunk a lot of poobahs, and even take in a party Saturday night. 

While we admit we like the Four Tops, Rascals, proms, and even go-carts, we hope the Student Union Social Commission will take a cue from the HPC and An Tostal weekend. It is time that they realize the most spectacular events are not always the best and certainly are the most expensive. 
We congratulate the HPC for the job they have done setting up An Tostal weekend and we hope that such weekends will be planned more often than just once every spring. 

Open forums 
Last month in the St. Mary's student body presidential elections, 42 per cent of the student body voted. In Tuesday's elections for hall president and the first Student Assembly approximately 200 students bothered to cast their ballots. 
St. Mary's students have always been labeled as politically apathetic, especially with regard to their own campus interests. Because so many positions are contended for by only o.w candidate (the student body vice presidential "race", and three of the four hall presidential positions, for example), an absurd method of election has resulted. When there is only one candidate for a post, she may receive a vote of approval, a "no" vote, or the balloter may abstain, whatever that may mean. 
We suspect that apathy is only part of the problem. Another factor is the Open Forum concept. The day preceding any election, all students wishing to vote in the election must attend an assembly wherein they may question the candidates, and in the case of the student body president race, they are addressed by the aspirants. In most cases these forums become little more than amusing exercises in rhetoric. 

The purpose of the forum is to educate the voters to the abilities of the candidates; to make sure that each voter knows exactly the stance of the person for whom she casts her ballot. 
The unfortunate outcome of this arrangement is that the burden of the election is almost entirely on the voter; the candidate need not campaign at all, and in the past they haven't. Therese Ambrusko was really one of the first ever to campaign room to room. We believe that the aspiring would-be officials should be made to put 
forth  an  effort  in  their  own  behalf -for  
election.  
The  apathetic  student  will  not  vote,  

open forum or not. The interested voter should have the opportunity to confront the candidates on the almost personal basis that room-to-room or floor campaigning will encourage. And the candidate will certainly have to show her initiative, mettle and imagination in her campaigning. 
We encourage the abolition of the Open Forum, a boring afternoon of the usual repetitive political rhetoric, to a better program in which the candidate as well as the voter must expend an effort. 
THURSDAY, MAY 8, 1969 PAGE!>
THE OBSERIJER. 

'Eat your heart out, Plimpton' 
By Ted Price 

\ guess everyohe some time in his life is attracted by racing, especially where some kind of machine is involved. You have all the excitement of pitting your skills against those of another person, with the added thrill of potential danger. Your senses are all tuned to the sound of the engine, the feel of the road, almost ecstatically aware of your speed. At least that's the way you think it is, especially with a tiny go-kart. 
So if you've never done it before, and you find an opportunity to try, you grab it and hang on, even though you're sure you'll come away with only one arm or something. 
That's the way I felt last Thursday, when I was able to talk the Student Union and the Morrissey team into per­mitting me three laps around the course in the Convo parking lot. Oh, I listened while all the safety features of karting were explained: how they are almost impossible to roll, how easy they are to drive without undue danger, and so forth. But then I looked closely at one of them. 
When you think that these karts can approach fifty miles an hour, they begin to look like awfully flimsy vehicles. A few tubes bolted together with a padded seat and a two-stroke engine. Add a steering wheel, accelerator, brake and centrifugal clutch, and there it is, folks, about 125 pounds of potential energy. 
I cleared myself with the Student Union, bought a driver's pass and re­turned to Morrissey's pit to receive my instructions. 
"We've got a practice engine on here now, about twice as large as the one we'll be racing with," explained Mark Ruggi, one of the regular drivers. "So take it a little easy and try to resist the temptation to open wide on the back straightaway. 
.f What temptation:'/ The kart is actually geared too low for this size engine, and we don't want to burn it out." The other driver, Allen Rogers, briefed 
me on the layout of the course "It's a 
little bit tricky, especially if you've never 
driven a kart before. /GreatI So take it easy; try just to get the !eel or tne whole thing." 
The Union's Bruce Boyle, team coordi­nator, came over to explain the track rules to me. "You've come at a good time, there aren't too many karts on the track," he said. "The rules basically are pretty simple. Just be considerate of the other guys on the track. The car in the lead has the right of way in the turns. On the straight, don't do anything unexpect­ed. In other words, if you're on the outside, don't jump to the inside. Ted, whatever you do, don't get into any races. You're out there for the first time, and you're only trying to sec what it's like. Take it easy, and there should be no problems." 
As he said this, two karts came roaring into the south turn onto the back straight. One didn't quite make it and spun into one of the bales of hay that were set up. The driver wasn't hurt, but I wasn't at all encouraged. 
The Morrissey drivers helped me into the required jacket and helmet. The bubble on the helmet was a little greasy (Rogers and Ruggi were doubling as their own machanics for the day) and it took a few seconds for me to adjust to the slightly blurred vision. They lowered me into the soft leather seat and started the engine. 
"Okay, Ted, your ignition switch is here on the steering wheel, in case any­thing happens. /Wonderful/ Take it easy, and good luck." I was staring straight ahead, clutching the wheel for dear life, 
tllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
.•
. . 
. ... 
.-. 'Tell it to Tommy' ...­
: Oear Tom1ny, 
Let me say right now that I think your idea for a column is ridiculous. It is a shoddy attempt at sensationalism and is a prostitution of emotions which arc closest to the human heart. From what I know of you personally, it is obvious that you have no care for anyone's feelings and no sense of the 
• deeply human. Don't tamper with : people's feelings because you will fail : desperately. Nobody in his right mind : will ever write you. : Concerned : Dear Concerned,:i Thank you for so adequately : proving your final point.
•
. 
.• 
: Dear Tommy,

E Can you please explain for me why 
: Milwaukee has more double beds thanEany other city its size in the United : States? Please help on this as I mustEknow before I move there.
. 
Inquisitive Mover
• 
: Dear Mover,E Sorry, I can't explain why : Milwaukee has so many double beds. : But maybe the large number of them ; explains the size of Milwaukee.
-
: 
: near Tommy,:i Whenever 1 have a really fun date : ·th St M • · 1 1 r d h • 
:. WI a · ary s gtr ' 111 s e s not
speaking to me the next day. Neither : are her roommates. What am 1 doing5 wrong? 
: Baffled5Dear Baffled,5 Don't worry about it. 1 always leave 
: 'em speechless too. : 
.
.
•
.
• Dear Tommy,
S 1 am a senior at Notre Dante and 
: haven't been out on a date since I'veEbeen here. I'm shy and an introvert : and just can't bring myself to go over 
. 
to St. Mary's to find a girl to take out. : 
What can I do? E 
Waiting hopefully : 
Dear Waiting, : 
You have nothing to worry about. : Just remember girls over there· are : almost human, practically like anyone : else. Throw some glib talk at them and : they'll crawl into the palm of your : hand. :
.
.
.
.
.
. 
Dear Tommy, -: 
Is it all right to kiss a girl? My : 
roommate said that a person can get: 
really sick by kissing and that even : 
worse than that the girl can get E 
pregnant. My mother used to always: 
tell me it was a sin to kiss. Till last E 
Sunday Father Tom said that the: 
Ecumenical Council changed all that E 
and that it isn't a sin anymore. Does: 
that mean they changed the rule about : 
getting pregnant too? E 
A Confusedi: 
Student 
Dear Confused, 
A kiss in time saves nine (months). 
Dear Tomn1y, 
I am in love with the Editor-in-chief of a college daily paper, located just across the road from my school. Yet, • 
he's always so lost in his work he never : 
: seems to pay any attention to girls. : What can I do? : Sad Sophomore : Dear Sad, E 
You might become a columnist for : the paper. You also might develop : some taste. :
.
.
.­
-• : Confidential to "Affluent Movie : 
Star" -You can't buy me off that E easily, but keep trying. I like the way : your money talks, honey. E 


Cllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll ICI 

and never saw who shouted these tmal instrudions. Two taps on my helmet and a shc.rt push to get me started, and I wheeled up to the starter, who held me up for a few seconds while three other karts buzzed by on the track. 
/0, Mama, can this really be the end. I 
At least fifty times during those ten seconds, I almost got up and ran from put in a lot of time over the past two summers pushing a truck in and around New York City. This was pretty exciting,because as any New Yorker knows, a car, and especially a taxicab, has the right of way over any truck, no matter how fast he is going, how heavily loaded he is, and of course, if you have the right of way, you arcn't required to 

this vibrating monster. I understand that sometimes journalism is dangerous, but this was certainly above and beyond the call of duty. 
The starter then flagged me onto the track. I gulped and pressed my right foot forward. The kart began to move, and I began to sweat. 
I turned onto the straightaway, and pushed down harder on the accelerator. 
Sitting so low, you get the same impression as you do in a car doing eighty. I looked off to my right and saw the stands moving by at what I estimated to be about thirty miles an hour. 
My first real test came at the end of the backstretch when I had to negotiate the hairpin turn of about ISO degrees. I was sure I was coming into it far too fast and tapped the brake. The kart lurched and in about a second and a half I lost half my speed. 
The G-forces in a kart are much more noticeable than in my mother's Pontiac, and I was a little afraid of rolling. But as I gained confidence, I began to take the turns a little faster, and discovered that a sexy wiggle of the hips to the outside pushed the rear end around without any sensation of lifting. 
Besides Mom's station wagon, I have 
SMC bequeaths to Notre Dame four young ladies-Terry Buck, Missy McCrary, Ann Stringer and Molly Tiernan-who have become ND's first female cheerleaders. Their first performance will be on September 20th when Ara's disciples grapple Northwestern. 
II II II 
.;A 
I 
:1'.• 

, ' 
.;.. ' 

I \~'l !\ 
signal. 

But it couldn't compare to this little kart. You sit very close to where you're 
going and the wind around the helmet, 
the vibration through the seat, and the 
roar in your ears convince you that 
you're a modern day speed hero. I was 
Jimmy Clark in a Formula I, Captain 
Midnight in his jet, Snoopy in his Sop­
with Camel. 
Coming around the front straight in 
front of the stands on the last lap, I put 
up my hand to signal those behind me 
that I would be exiting for the pit area. I 
made the turn, and on my way behind 
the pits, pushed the bubble back and let 
the cool air onto my face. 
I rolled slowly into the Morrissey pit at the end, and noticed that where I had been clutching the wheel in a two-handed death grip, I now rested my right hand on top of the wheel, relaxed as if in Mom's wagon. I could feel my face in a broad grin. 
AI Rogers helped me up from the kart while Mark Ruggi went to the rear to take care ofmechanical considerations. Rogers looked at me and saw that a lot of conversation was unnecessary. 
"Great, huh?" 
"Yeah." 
Eat your heart out, Plimpton. 

---··---------­
~--------------------------------------------------------------------~· 
THE OBSERVER
PAGE 6 
•


Ten pigs arr1ve on campus
DO YOUR THING 

Wallace employee, to do ~he 
bidding for him. 
"Golubski was about the only 

person who didn't say I was 
crazy when I told him why 
wanted to buy the pigs," 
Mastriana explained. 
Hatke and Mastriana then 

jumped into the pens to inspect 
the hogs before the bidding took 
place. When he got out 
Mastriana remarked, "I swear 
I'm going to throw these clothes 
away when I get back. I think 
that one sow kissed me." 
Five hours later the right pigs 
came up for bid. 
"When I saw what I wanted, I 

signaled Golubski and he took 
care of the rest," Mastriana said. 
Golubski then agreed to care for 
the An Tostal pigs until 
Saturday when Mastriana will 
pick them up and bring them 
back to ND 

SMC workshop 
Burr Tillstrom, the originator of the Kukla, Fran and Ollie television characters will be among a series of communica­tions experts who will lecture at a five-day communications workshop to be held at Saint Mary's College in June. 
The workshop sponsored by the Saint Mary's Art Department will combine the series of talks and films with experiments in­volving newer con~epts of mass communications. The program will be held from June 2 to 6 and will offer one graduate cre­dit. 
In addition to Tillstrom, a media critic and program direct­or, other lecturers will include Harley Parker, a consultant for the Center for Culture and Tech­nology and collaborator witli media authority Marshall McLuhan; Joseph Carlson, of the Office of Technology Utiliza­tion, National Aeronautics and Space Administration who will speak on the "spin-off" ideas for communications developed through NASA research; Yale University painter Jack Tworkov, and Saint Mary's Col­lege linguist Dilaver Berberi. 
Persons interested in enrolling 

in the workshop are asked to 
contact Sister M. Jeanne Finske, 
C.S.C., coordinator of the Saint 
Mary's College Summer Session. 
COMEBACK PAPA WHELAN BADIN LOVES YOU 



Ron Mastriana bought ten
"Do your thing"-immediate openings in young 
hogs last night for the An Tostal publishing company for ad space salesmen & women. 
pig chase on Saturday. The ten Work in your city or travel the USA. Salary, 
pigs, which average 143.5 commission and car expenses. Call collect (312) 
pounds apiece and cost the An Tostal Committee $308.99, were
726-9326 or send resume to J and J Publications, 
obtained at Wallace Investments
Inc., 153 North Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois 
Inc.'s weekly livestock auction 60601. 
in Walkerton, Ind. 




1969 AN TOSTAL 
THURSDAY 
(Main Quad) 
AFTERNOON Outdoor Play Trivia Bowl EVENING Band 
Dunking -BMOC's Jail Pie Throw 
Beer Can Stacking White Elephant Sale Three Legged Race Flour Blowing SLAVE AUCTION 

MAY 8 -10 
SATURDAY 
12:00-1:30 Picnic 
1:30  Bed Race  
2:00  Water Brigade  
2:30  Pie Eating  
3:00  Tug of War  


FRIDAY 
Beach Party (St. Joe's) 

The hogs will be put in a round pen on Saturday and will have to face teams of four which will try to capture as many of the greased pigs as possible in the allotted time. The pigs which survive their ordeal will then be resold at next Wednesday's auction. 
Gary Gardner of the An Tostal Committee convinced Mastriana, general chairman for the May 8--ll weekend, to buy the pigs and then resell them after Ron had no luck in trying to borrow the animals. 
Gene Hatke, who is in charge of the pig chase, and Mastriana asked thirteen different farmers if they could borrow ten-150 pound pigs for the An Tostal event. But the most common reply the two received was, "Are you guys nuts? " Other farmers gave a simple and straight "No!" 
Paul Pieffer, Mastriana's special assistant, and Hatke accompanied Mastriana to the auction yesterday afternoon. When they arrived in Walkerton Mastriana asked Joe Golubski, a 
GENESIS 1 

Heavy student films: tonight 
3:30 Cow Milking 
4:00 Touch Football 
5:00 Pig Chase 
7:30 IRISH BARN PARTY 
Guitarists Welcome ­
Thursday Afternoon a 
Saturday at the Picnic 






GRIND 
PRIX 

MAY 10, 1:00 SPRINT RACE MAY17 1:30 RACE FINALS 
Tickets: Gilberts, Bookstore, Dining Halls 


~~----~----~-~-­
---~-~~-----------------­
• 
PAGE 7

T_H_u_R_s_o_A_v_._M_A_v_s_.1-9-69------------~-~-~---TH£ OBSERfJDL ___ ---------------­

McCoy doubtful for Saturday 
1969 TRI-CLASS ·PROM 


MacARTHUR PARK 
Grand Prix Weekend -May 16 Stepan Center 
Final Ticket Sales -Tonight, May 8 Invitations $9.50 
7 -10 PM Rm 2D of LaFortune Student Center 
Final Tux Fittings -Today, May 8 1s selections 11 AM -SPM & 7 -9PM 2nd Floor LaFortune Sunday Brunch -10,30 May 18 
Breakfast for 2 at Morris Inn Guest Speaker -Fr. Hesburgh $5 Pre-Bubbly Party-6: 30-9: 00 May 16 at Holly's Admission Free with Prom Invitation 
Motel Accomodations Available -$12.50 for 1/2 of of a Blue and Gold Double for 2 nights 
• 

It is bad enough to be shut­starter; so the second team Gold Backing up the frosh front out in a football game, but it's eleven may sec four freshmen line, however, will be a veteran even worse when some of those manning the defensive line. Walt quartet of linebackers. Defensive who do the damage an: your Patulski, who played high school captain Bob Olson heads the former teammates. That sit ua­bass as a fullba~.:k and frosh ball group, which includes Larry tion may prevail this Saturday as a tight end, and Fred Schumacher, Tim Kelly, and when the Blue meets the Gold in Swendsen will start at the ends. Bob Neidert. There has been a the annual intra-squad game in Greg Marx will man one tackle battle going on in the defensive the Stadium at I: 30. spot and, if McCoy's cut knee secondary between trios of frosh 
Injuries have removed Pat fails to respond by Saturday, and vets. Saturday, it looks like Mudron from the pidure and Mike Zikas will replace him at Chuck "Slick" Zloch, and John the other.
made Mike McCoy a doubtful Gasser will team with freshman 
AN EVOLUTION IN FILM! 
"IT WOULD BE HARD TO FIND A MORE REPRESENTATIVE SELECTION THAT IS AT THE SAME TIME AS IMPRESSIVE AS THIS ONE •. :' 
-Palo Alto Times 
"A PERSUASIVE COLLECTION OF EXCITING NEW TRICKS ... WITH FINESSE AND SOMETIMES BRILLIANCE AND ALWAYS GUSTO .••" 
TONIGHT! -Stanford Daily £NGIN££RING AUDITORIUM 
~(C 

7:00, 9:30 PM 

$1.00 students $1.50 general 
GENESIS FILM LTD./A FILMWAYS CO. 
speedster Clarence Ellis. One freshman who was making noise during pradice, Ed Gulyas, has been hurt and will probably not play much. 
Little Joe Theismann will start a new season off be-deviling bigger opponants as he quarter­backs the Blues. His running mates will most likely be Ed Ziegler and freshman Andy fluff at halfback and Jeff Zimmerman at fullback. 
Dewey Poskon is the choice at 
tight end, but there are several candidates for the split end post. Jim deArrieta, Torn Eaton, and Tom Gatewood should each see plenty of action, for one side or the other. 
The offensive line has been partly rebuilt due to graduation losses. Jim Reilly and Larry DiNardo are veterans on the left side of the line, while Mike Martin and Gary Kos will cover the right tackle and guards spots. Mike Oriard, a starter much of last season, will be at center. 


Rugby 

The following is the schedule for the Irish Challenge Cup Rugby Tournament, to be held on Saturday and Sunday: SATlJRDAY (behind Stepan Center) 
10:00; Chicago Lions Club vs. the Irish Canadian Club 
I I : I 5; Notre Dame vs. Army I:00; Irish Canadian "B" vs. Notre Dame "B" 
2: I 5; Irish Canadian vs. Army 3:30; Notre Dame vs. Chicago Lions 
SlJNDAY (in the Stadium) I :00; Chicago Lions vs. Army 
2: I 5;  Notre  Dame  vs.  Irish  
Canadians  
3:30;  Notre  Dame  "B"  vs.  

Chicago Lions "B" 

P.S.-Mother's Day is almost here! That special Mother deserves the best, so call us now! 
• 
PAGE 8 THURSDAY, MAY 8, 1969
THE OB.rERfiER 


And you say pitching's the name of the game? 
• 
By Mike Pavlin 
Bob Jaeger scattered seven 

hits and Bill Orga belted an eight-inning homer to give Notre Dame a 4-3 victory over Hillsd­ale College yesterday afternoon. Tuesday, the Irish absorbed a 17-12 poinding from Michigan State in a wild free-for-all. The split left ND at 9-9 for the season. 
The Spartans came to South Bend after a disasterous week­end of Big Ten ball. They dropped four games to Indiana and Ohio State, being completely shackled at the bat. The weather could only help a hitting revival, however, with the wind blowing hard and straight out. 
MSU used the wind on the game's first play. First baseman Joe Gavel (nick-named "Nanty Glo" after his hometown of Nanty Glo, Pa.) lifted a pop fly ten feet down the third base line. Catcher Joe Keenan called for it, pitcher Bob Arnzen called him off, and the "ball fell un­touched d. It was the beginning 

Gavel whost: 



.... J.P~;,. ~~;~575. 
~~---000 
1!/ou doJt 'I ha?HJ lo k '1LtCh 
,to J?·1.!le he:~< a 
!fiJlk·nif dia;-no-nd t:fa:Jl.Jnl·a·11-l 

TIFFANY &CO. 

slugging average has been close to .500 all year, and a terrible one for Arnzen. 
Two more singles, the run­producer by left fielder Gary Boyce, scored a run, but Arnzen pitched out of further trouble. The Spartans added single runs in the second and third innings, the last one unearned because of an error by first-sacker Chuck Horan, one of six Irish miscues. 

Arnzen took matters into his own hands in the bottom of the third. Spartan hurler Kurt Maas, who had blanked the Irish for two innings, served up a fat 0-2 pitch to Arnie who promptly rode one over the left field fence with Phil Krill on base via a single. Aroused, ND cashed in three singles and a ground-out for two more runs. (RBI's to Dick Lucke and Keenan) and a 4-3 lead. 
Michigan State had gotten the idea, however, and roared back to beat up Arnzen and reliever Ron Schmitz. John Lansky 
pinch-hit for Maas and doubled, and the track meet was on. Gavel walked twice in the inning as MSU sent twelve men to the plate. The key blows were a two-run single by shortstop george Petroff and a two-run, ground-rule double by .214 hitter Mike Olson. The Spartans scored six times to take a 94 lead. 
State tried Larry Hooper as a reliever in the bottom of the fourth, but it backfired. Hooper faced five men, walking the first two and last two. The third man, right-fielder Bob Voitier, slugged a triple to right-center. And before new pitcher Mickey Knight could stem the tide, three more runs had scored, tying the score at 9-9 and ending what may have been the longest full inning in ND baseball his­tory. 
For two innings it looked like the Irish had found the pitching answer in soph basketball star Tom Sinnott. Things looked even better after the bottom of the sixth inning when NO scored three times. The first run came on a tremendous, 400-ft. home­run by Lucke, well over the left field fence. Phil Krill, having batting trouble this year, drove 

in  the  final  two  runs  with  a  
single.  
The  rising  wind  and  an  ap­ 

proaching storm signaled the destruction of Sinnott. MS U's leading hitter, Rich Miller (.375), doubled, catcher Harry "Spud" Kendrick homered, Phil Rashead singled, and Petroff homered. MSU 13, ND 12. The next inning was almost as bad. Relief pitcher Rich Krueger drove a homerun deep over center in his first time at bat. Then "Nanty Glo" Gavel took dead aim on the 385-foot sign in center and hit a fly ball 386 feet for four bases, about the same 
time that the wind knocked over an orange-drink carton in the press box, spilling Florida sun­shine all over the score-sheet of the State radio broadcaster. 

1----------==--A-=----::M~-=---F=---s----------------~ 
B R 0 wN 


SHOW 
The Nations No.1 Entertainer 
IN PERSON 
JAMES BROWN 
With Show for Entire Family 
Date: May lOth, '69 Place: Morris Civic Auditorium

Ticket Prices: 1st Show: balcony $3.50 main floor $4.00 2nd Show balcony $4.00 main floor $5 .00 On Sale at: Auditorium Box Office Show Time: 7 & 10 P.M. 

Off Campus Voting 
for 

S.L.C ELECTIONS 
Thursday May 8, 1969 In Off Campus Office 
9AM to 7PM 
Seniors allowed to vote 
Notre Dame committed three errors in the inning as two more runs scored and George Phelps replaced the battered Sinnott. 
Krueger, a little-used sopho­more left-hander, proceeded to spoil the fun for Notre Dame by shutting out the Irish over the final three innings. Two ninth­inning singles were nullified by a double-play. Bright spots for the Irish were the performances of Keenan, who had three hits, and Bill Schoen, who replaced the injured Nick Scarpelli early in the contest and managed two hits and a walk in his only plate appearances this year. 
Freshmen and sophomores composed most of the Hillsdale lineup. On Wednesday, the Char­gers battled N D all the way, however, being hurt by four costly errors. Jaeger opened the game by setting down the first nine Chargers in order, striking out six of them. In the bottom of the first, Voitier grounded a single right, moved up on an error, and scored when Lucke doubled off the lef-center field fence. 
Notre Dame widened the mar­gin in the third with a two-out rally. Schoen was hit by a pitch 
and  Tom  Lux  singled.  After  
both  runners  moved  up  on  a  
wild  pitch,  an  error  by  Dave  

Sachanski at third allowed Schoen to score. Krill then sin­gled to make it 3-0. 
Hillsdale's freshman hurler, Rich Miller, settled down and blanked the Irish (all the runs 
were unearned) for four innings.
The Chargers rallied in the top of the fourth, after eveyone had had a look at Jaeger. A lead-off 
single by Mike Boss and two 



Harry Kendrick (left) and George Petroff provided some of the firepower for Michigan State in Tuesday's battle. 



Baseball Standings 
AMERICAN-EAST  NATIONAL-EAST  
Won  Lost  Pet.  GB  Won  Lost  Pet..  GB  
BALT.  20  10  .667  CHI.  19  10  .655  
xBOST.  15  10  .600  2%  PITT.  16  11  .589  2  
xWASH.  16  12  .571  3  PHIL.  12  12  .500  4%  
xN.Y.  12  15  .441  6%  N.Y.  12  15  .444  6  
xDET.  11  14  .440  6%  xST.L.  11  15  .427  6%  
CLEV.  4  19  .174  12% MONT.  10  16  .374  7%  
WEST  WEST  
MINN.  17  8  .680  - ATL.  18  9  .667  - 
xOAK.  15  10  .600  2  L.A.  16  11  .589  2  
xK.C.  14  1 1  .560  3  xS.F.  15  11  .575  2%  
CHI.  10  1 1  .479  5  CINN.  12  15  .444  6  
xCAL.  8  14  .364  7%  S.D.  13  17  .434  6%  
xSEA.  8  16  .333  8%  HOUS.  9  21  .300  10%  

walks loaded the bases with none out. Schoen and Krill then pulled off a nifty double-play as one run scored. Sachanski re­deemed himself with a single to left for the second run. Skip Schmedes singled to right, but a great throw by Voitier cut Sac­hanski down at third. 
Another Krill-Schoen double­play saved Jaeger in the fifth, after singles by Mark Ranney and Miller. But the Chargers broke through in the sixth to tie the score. A single, sacrifice bunt, and single by John Seeley did the damage. In the bottom of the sixth, the Irish wasted a lead-off triple by Orga, when Jim Wright hit a hot liner dir­ectly into the glove of shortstop Ranney. 
ND fell short again in the seventh. After two were out, Lux and Lucke singled, but Krill flied to center. Orga lead off the eight, hiwever, by knocking one over the right-centerfield fence for the winning margin. Jaeger breezed through the ninth to even his record at 1-1. He fin­ished with eight strike-outs. 


NBA Draft 
ND basketball stars Bob Arnzen and Bob Whitmore were chosen on the eighth 
round  as  the  NBA  com­ 
pleted  its  college  player  
draft.  Arnzen  was  chosen  

by the Detroit Pistons, while Whitmore was nabbed by the world champion Boston Celtics. 
5 







