

Davis: ~~·tt~.2n..OI.unning a police state 
bv Cliff Win trode a 'a inst the Vietnamese he genocide by the same people things must obviously be done. fice" as the primary goal for 
Observer Associate Editor g I ' that decided on a pohcy of people.
accuse(. . f h v· , "Capitalism must go, and the Renee Davis before a l<.iifC Davis said the anti-riot act genocide or t e Ietnamese. slogans of the 60's from The Chicago 7 feel that there 
audience in the Engineering under which he and the other six Davis felt the Chicago 7 had 'participatory democracy' to is "no way" they can get a fair Auditorium charged last night members of the Chicago 7 are been decreed to be "ideological 'power to the people' reflect trial in Chicago. The judge has Cr,·minals" and that there · f · t t d th · t f' d the
that the Nixon administration is being tried "suppresses dissent" that a vast decentralization o ms rue e e JUry o m maintaining their "American and is the "foundation for a definitely was something to be power is wanted," he said. seven guilty, said Davis. 
empire" abroad by enforcing a police state in America." feared when the Vice President He stated his belief that non-Davis felt that it was wrong to "police slate" at home. "There is no question that says we should have no violence was very effective. He view Judge Julius Hoffman as a This "empire" is being there is an organized drive to compunction in separating them felt the November 15th Morator-"freak" of the American judicial 
challenged overseas as well as at eliminate the leaders of the from the rest of our youth. ium in Washington was striking system. horne said Davis. The "facts are Black Panthers," he added. ''Detention camps and proof of this. "He fits Nixon's mold of a incontestable" that we are "They have been marked for anti-riot acts are going to be part However, he did warn that a law and order man," said David. 
of the 1970's," said Davis. "central tenet" of the new ap-"He is a racist. fascist pig."Davis said the seven d t t'
proach to emons ra Ions was The Illinois state's attorney 
defendants view their trial as the that people were going to defend that ordered the "murder" of "trial of the government in the themselves from being "annihila-Fred Hampton by the "fascist" '60's," for every segment of ted", either by the police or by Ch' r · · 
dissent in the 1960's is Icago po Ice IS conung to the government. campus said Davis, and added 
represented by the Seven and He added that he viewed the that: our trial is a trial of the whole struggle for a new system which 
"Fred Hampton's death
movement of the 1960's. 
will recJuire an "enormous sacri­should be avenged."
"The fair trial of the American government ends when our trial ends," he added. 
Counselor takes charge
If the Chicago Seven are found guilty, then "you the jury" should meet to decide the 
of Black recruitment 
fate of the government and find ·if "guilty and sentence it to 
"Dr. Grande has in the past
death," Davis said. by Glen Corso 
had deep concern with the prob­Davis said he did not have an Observer News Editor lems associated with the college
exact blueprint of the society 
George C. Seabrooks, a coun­students in the area of growth
that he would-like to see emerge 
selor in the Freshman Year Pro­and development. His many pub­
from the death of our present 
gram, has been appointed assis­lications, journalistic efforts, and 
government, but that certain 
tant to the director of admis­devotions to student petsOnnel Davis confronts press sions in charge of minority concerns are clearcut evidence of recruitment. his sensitivity to students' needs, 
"I am enthusiastic and, more aims and ambitions. explicitly, quite excited with "It is particularly pleasing and regard to my recent appoint­rewarding to work with a person
TA's granted salary boost 
ment as Assistant to the Director of Dr. Grande's orientation. It is, for Minority Concerns. I regard in fact, a shifting of gears for published as they are worked Department TA's who initiated this as concrete evidence that Notre Dame. For example, my

by Bro. Pat Carney 
out. the movement and did so much Notre Dame is genuinely con­present academic involvement, In a statement of apprecia­work on it; the local chapter of cerned about the plight of Black as related to admissions con­Graduate students received an tion, King said "The University the American Asociation of Student potential in American cerned with extenSive research inearly Christmas present last administration certainly deserves University Professors; and the society today.

night when it was announced 
a great vote of thanks ·as we are Fact Finding Committee of the I am especially elated because

that the University had agreed to 
aware they are -facing financial G.S.U. which issued their report the appointment is essentially a
take steps to alleviate the 
difficulties and, in spite of this, yesterday. convergence of ideals and basic
problems faciug the teaching 
they have been most generous in Expressing his gratitude to all philosophy with regard to the

assistants. 
working out the solution. Al­of these organizations, Mr. King demands, desires and needs of
In a 5 p.m. meeting with 
though all the details are not stated "We are most appreciative the disadvantaged," Seabrooks

Jim King, President of the Grad­worked out, we thank them for of the local chapter of the said.
uate Student Union, Rev. John 
sitting down and discussing the A.A.U.P. for their aid in clari­Dr. Peter P. Grande, director 

Walsh, Vice-President for Aca­
things with us in spite of their fying the problems and helping of admissions, said that Sea­

demic Affairs, announced that 
problems." us to arrive at the solution." brooks has already accompanied

the administration sees the sol­
King stressed that in no way The English TA's, he said, had Notre Dame admissions officials 

ution in steps. 
can the G.S.U. take full credit been working on the problem on several trips to recruit minor­

Dr. Georae Seabrooks AIt hough all the details are for bringing about the change. for over two years and had done ity students. "Seabrooks effect­
the area of bias-free aptitudenot yet worked out, the English He cited the work of four separ­much to bring attention of all iveness in recruiting black stu­measures. We feel that a moreDepartment will be the first to ate groups for their roles in what segments of the university · dents was so evident we arranged valid appraisal might be obtainedbe affected. It was these English has been accomplished. These Under chairman Ed lsely, the a schedule whereby he could through such a medium andstudents who threatened to 

were the a.:lministration <~ommit­G.S.U. Fact-Finding Committee continue to counsel black stu­especially with regard to thestrike if action was not taken on tee on graduate student life nas studied the relationship c. dents and still head up the Uni­
minority students. In the

their complaint of long hours headed by Fr. Beichner, Dean of versity's minority recruitment
teaching assistants at Notre absence of such valid and reli­

and low pay. The immediate the Graduate School; the English program," Grande said.
(continued on page 10) able measures, the emphasis in

solution to their problem is selection will thus be placedtwo-fold. There will be a reduc­upon the quality of the aca­tion of work load for some and 

Finn says sought dialogue 
demic and personal recommend­an increase in salary for others. 

ations. With the Black studentsDespite the financial condi­by T.C. Treanor In the article Lyons claimed that Observer in a letter to print the this is especially true. Thus aparttion of the University, money "the very small percentage of article a month ago and to pub­from the need to have thehas been appropriated so that Twin Circle Publishing Com­Black people who are militants lish along with it editorial unqualified personal recom­this will take effect in January in pany Promotion Director John comments onor anarchists or Reds, or just the subject. Finn mendation, we are extremelytime for the second semester. Finn last night said he planned plain racists, get all the promi­stated in his letter that Twin concerned about demonstratedThe funds will be turned over to "no further action" in the nence!" Circle would seriously consider performance

academic ratherthe Dean of the College of Arts Bayard Rustin controversy. 

When asked why he bought printing the Observer's remarks than the results of tests whichand Ll·tters who in turn will Finn, who paid eighty dollars the space, he said that he "just on the appointment in one of really are ineffective in ade­deal it out to the departments to republish an article by Daniel read the article and liked it." their editions. quately tapping the potential of
under him. Lyons. S.ll., in today's Observer, He went on that he "At the time," DeSapio
to say our students," Seabrooks stated.
Whiil' the January raise ap­called the appointment of the wanted to "develop a dialogue" remarked, "we felt that it would Seabrooks went on and saidplies only to the English assis­56-year old Black a form of take a lot of research to check
on the Rustin appointment. He that he planned to " ... work 
tants. longer range plans are "tokenism." "I think our pur­indicated that though he per­on the accusations that Lyons 
closely with students who are

under consideration. There will pose was to please the Ford made. We wanted to treat the
sonally ws opposed to the ap­vitally conc~rned and interested
be a definitt: increase in the Foundation," Finn said, "It was pointment, was more inter­matter fairly or not at all.
he in assisting student recruitment 
a mount paid the remaining definitely a ploy to raise Apparently Mr. Finn felt the
ested in having the appointment efforts." He stated that his most
teaching assistants for the money." matter important enough to
thoroughly discussed than in immediate concern was to estab­
1970-7 I school year. Lyons' article, which origin­insure the art ide's publication. I
having Rustin remowd. lish "guidelines and policies
More explicit details such as ally appeared in the Nowmbcr intend now to ask Mr. Rustin if which will give direction to all
Ohserver editor, Guy Desapio
the amounts of salary increase twenty-third issue of Twin he would like to reply to the our efforts in this area which is
said that Finn, in the name of
and work load decrease have not Circle, called the appointment a article." 
so crudal to the University."

Twin Circle, had asked the
yet been decided. These will be "serious concession to the Ll·ft. continued on page 9 


THE OBSERIIM FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1969
PAGE 2 

Summa-new direction for No-
This is the second and final part of a series on SUMMA. It was written by OBSERVER Staff Reporter Mike Moon­
ey. 
The SUMMA project booklet lists four general categories of proposed develope­ment. The single objective of Faculty Developement rates a category by itself, compared with the many faced objectives of Growth of Graduate Education, Spec­ial Research Programs and general developement. 
The second and third categories ­Growth of Graduate Education and Spec­ial Research Programs -are of special importance. They hint at a new direction for Notre Dame in the coming years. The combined expenditure on these two areas is suggested as $18,475,000; of this total, only the $250,000 earmarked for Area Studies can be said to be directly aimed at undergraduates. 
It would be very rash to suggest that the University is beginning to improve graduate education at the expense of undergraduate developement; after all, the $18 million-plus is only about 35% of the total goal, and the $20 million for Faculty Developement and over $13 mil­lion set for General Developement will vrobably prove to be of more benefit to undergrads than grad students. Yet, it is 35%, and in at least the cases of Engineer­ing and Science, additional aid is expect­ed in the form of private gifts and government assistance. 
If financial directions are any indica­tion of University goals it must be judged that the days of .. the downgrading -· unconscious or not -of graduate educa­tion at Notre Dame are dying if not already dead. 
SUMMA aimed at undergrads 
It is difficult to foretell what this 

improvement in graduate education bodes 
for future Notre Dame undergrads. Again, .it would be rash to suggest that the University is altering its direction to the emphasis of graduate over undergraduate education. Notre Dame has a long histori­cal and philosophical commitment to undergraduate education and, perhaps more important, several thousand alumni who probably _would not support any major turning of the Umverstty trom the 
production of Bachelors to that of Docto­rates. Such a new direction would be an uncharacteristic and, perhaps, a finan­cially poor choice for Notre Dame to make. 

ATTENTION! 
Those who paid their Cotton Bowl deposit for the Student Union trip may pick up a ticket for the Football game on Monday, Dec. 12, at the SERVICES OFFICE, 4th Floor La­Fortune. 
The very real advantages of an im­proved graduate program would seem to outweigh any supposed liabilities. Im­provements in graduate education and research programs would mean improve­ments in facilities, faculty, libraries ­much of which is bound to positively effect Notre Dame undergraduate popula­tion. 
What the University must avoid is an all-out rush to upgrade graduate educa­tion at the expense of the undergrads; with at least 65% of SUMMA aimed primarily at undergraduate education and life, that move is presently unlikely at Notre Dame. 
SUMMA has allocated $13,525,000 for "General Developement" of the Univer­sity. Included within the booklet's listings under this title are "Residence and Dining Facilities," and "Cooperation with St. Mary's College" --also a few surprises for an undergraduate reader. 
The description of the residence hall situation begins with a restatement of the often-heard position that "It is no coin­cidence that' many of the very best universities in America are residential universities." The copy adds that "today approximately 4500 undergraduates live in nineteen campus residences" while "almost one thousand students, most of whom would prefer to live on campus, 
must find rooms m the South Bend area", (italics my own). 
Trend towards off-campus 
The suggested solution is quite clear: "In order to accommodate these students on campus and to relieve the crowded conditions in many of the existing halls, Notre Dame is planning to build three, high-rise residence halls as well as an addition to the North Dining Hall." 
The booklet which suggests this solu­tion was published in 1967, and the plans, at least in the case of "three, high--';rise residence halls" have been alterdi. With the movement of student residents actually more towards off­campus' than on, the University is in no position to build dorms that will not be used. 
"We will build new dorms if they are needed," Commented Mr. Frick and added that Notre Dame does not intend to heat empt~ room~. 
There ts no hint of formal co-education in t!le SUMMA outline of future relations with St. Mar(s, only "inter-institutional cooperation.•' This relationship is set against an outright merger of the two institutions, emphasizing instead the shar­ing of facilities, faculties, and courses -a stepped-up co-ex program. 
Faculty-student contacbs 
One surprise does emerge from the outline, however: a suggested academic halfway house between ND and SMC. 
"Physically, it is hoped the growing cooperation between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will come to be symbolized by a facility equidistant from the two campuses which will serve as a combined academic building and student union," the booklet states. Such a facility would provide an opportunity for "closer, infor­mal contacts between professors and stu­dents of both schools." 
In short, SUMMA certainly means con­tinued growth for the University. The promised expansion in many graduate and research programs is certain to have an effect, hopefully a beneficial one, on the undergraduates. SUMMA offers an improved faculty and facilities for Notre Dame. It offers at least the promise of continued academic growth at the Univer­sity. 


MARDI GRAS '70 
DON'T WAIT UNTIL AFTER VACATION 
SELLRAFFLEBOOKSAT HOME 

F..RIDAY, DECEMBER 
12, 1969 PAGE 3 
Law school plans new building; i• ~ 
~~.~!!,~uction set for ~.~,~~~'~".'P~ ~..~EASONS GREETING~ 
"The first thing we do, let's here we virtually take an old begun to increase the enrollment •• E• kill all the lawyers," suggests book out." The Law Center will 60 students each year for five 5 : Dick the Butcher in Shakes-also have a separate law library years, thus doubling the enrol-: FR0 M 5 peare's King Henry VI. Despite for faculty research. The build-lment. In addition, each year 5 : Dick's threat the barrister's ing will also feature classrooms three professors are added to the: 5 profession has survived the times which will be able to be opened law school's faculty. When the 5 : well. Law schools, of course, into a forum which will seat the plan is completed the faculty: BuDW EISER 5 
play a key role in perpetuating entire student body. A moot •
30

the profession, and the Notre court room is also included in will number full-time profes-c : 
sors. The number of part-time. 5 Dame Law School has been play-the plans. professors will be increased from: : ing the role for over I00 years. The law school will maintain 12 to 18, Lawless said. The plan 5 : 
In providing training for its its present professor-student will be completed one year afted: 5 students, the Notre Dame Law ratio in increasing its enrollment, the law center is finished he: : School does not intend to be said Lawless. In 1968, he ex-added. ' : 5
G0 0 D LucK 
u~L On September 19th : • 
~~~gr~~~r: fu~~edr~~~ w~~ni~~~ ~ S 
tiated, setting its goal at $6 5 IN T H E : 
million for the expansion of the : : study of law at Notre Dame. 5 5 Expansion plans include a new : :
~~~~i~;;gei;g~~~~:. § C0 TT0 N B0 W L §
enrollment, 

Construction of the new 5 : Notre Dame Law Center will : 5 begin "no later than the Spring 5 : of 1971 ," Dean William B. : 5 Lawless said in an Observer :
•

interview yesterday. If every-: 
thing goes according to schedule, 5" r----------------------------,1 Lawless explained, the building should be completed by Septem­ber, 1972. The new Law Center will be located northeast of the Mem­orial Library and will be con­nected to it by a tunnel or a Cambridge-type bridge, Lawless said. Lawless said that Sinclair !lui UAc I g . 
of Ellerbe Associates of St. Paul, p ans pro rams : Minnesota designed the plans for : the new law building. llui and 
hope to open art shop ­
Law less visited various law i schools to find out the best ! features in each to include in the by Dan O'Donnell the Council to initiate and super.: architect's plans. In addition, the vise a week-long festival of the$ American Bar Association gave The University Arts Council arts, during the first week of: 

Budweiser. 
Lawless the plans from the last disclosed plans yesterday for a March. The UAC chairman saidl KINO OP ...... 25 law schools built in the series of culturally oriented pro-that the festival would be high­nation to help with the design of grams in what University Arts lighted by a continuous presen­the building. Council Chairman Tom Kronk tation of ND-SMC artists and 
"At every stage the students described as an attempt to in-their works. played a considerable role in the volve the ND-SMC student Kronk pointed out, however,: building's design," said Lawless. bodiet> in the arts. that finalization of these plans$ lie particularly wanted a student Tentative plans call for the depend on student response. : ::omplex in the plans, he said, so formation of a Student Artist's "Our main goal is to get as5 each student group could have Shop for the purchase and sale varied a program as possible: its own offices. Last year's of student works, the estab-available to the students. To do5 students, he explained, provided lishment of the University Arts this will require people to work,: the measurements for the space Council and its sub-committees people to help and most impor-5 they needed with the present with office space in the Arts tantly people to get excited.: enrollment of 340. From these Center and the formation of a There is a spot for everyone and: figures the architect computed Chamber Music Group. (continued on page 9) : ..___,-------------------· : projections for measurements Also in the offing are: !,1111111111111111111111111•11111111"11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111~ 
for the space required when the Experimental theatre compan-: : increased enrollment of 600 ies under the direction of Steve S : students is reached. So the stu-Reitz, : : dents' measurements have been A writer's union, headed by E 5 
1
;~~~~~~~-in the blueprints, Law-~:; s~~~~-~~~o~;;~~i!~ s~~~:~t §INTEREsTED IN pARTIClpATING~ 
The new Law Center will have wnters to wnte an anthology • : a library which will hold later in the year. : : 
i~~.(~~~sev~tlut:\~:a~~es~os:!~~ se~~~:~ter::~~t~v; ~a;cej~~s IN A WORK I STUDY GROUP s 
70,000 books. "We're up to the Devleigher. : E 
gunwales here," said Lawless, According to Kronk, the real-5 : 
"when we put a new book in ization of these goals will allow: 
ON INSTITUTIONAL RACISM 5 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllc: : 
•­
-NOTRE DAME AVE. ~ 5 
---= AND DISCRIMINATION? :
-
--APARTMENTS § : 
--------•
-
--. --­
: NOW : -­~Reserving for second semester 5CONTACT : URBAN STUDIES OFFICE, --­
-
-
:-and fall of 1970 :----•
.•.. .•-FIRST FLOOR MEMORIAL LIBRARY, --­
-----•
--~ . •
5 Groups of four : -­
.• •-283-1112. ---· • • ­
-
: -phone: 234 -6647 : --­
-
-
-
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111~­
PAGE 4 THE OBSERII!'It FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1969 


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
Donald C. Holliday, Publisher Gaetano De Sapio, Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
The art of giving 
In February of 1950, Notre Dame students staged the first Mardi Gras carnival. Their stated purpose was to "raise money for charities throughout the world". No doubt, they also had in mind to provide a social function that would relieve the 'long South Bend winter'. 
The first eighteen years were successful. The carnival grew each year until it averaged a profit in excess of $22,000 a year. These profits were then distributed to charities in South Bend and around the world. 
Mardi Gras will celebrate its twentieth anniversary this February and possibly its last. If the carnival winds up in the red again, there is little reason to continue it in its present form. 
We would hate to see Mardi Gras discontinued. But if this is the last year, it will be our own fault. The main source of income for the carnival is the raffle sales. Last year's Mardi Gras lost money primarily because the net revenue of raffle sales was less than half of the preceeding year's. 
There are many reasons cited to explain this drop in revenue. There were many administrative problems, such as failure to distribute the raffle books before Christmans
. 
. 

vacation. However the real burden most likely rests with the student body and our lack of concern for the real purpose of Mardi Gras: to raise money for charity. 
Dave Dewan and his Mardi Gras staff are trying this year to bring the carnival back into proper focus. We congratulate them for their efforts but we realize that they are limited. The main responsibility falls on the individual student. The committee has set a goal this year of $30,000 net revenue from the raffle sales. It will truely be amazing if they cannot realize it, for this sum is attainable if only half the student body sold one book of tickets. 
It is rather depressing what has to be done these days in order to compel someone to contribute a small part of their affluence to others. There is nothing wrong with having fun while you raise money, but to have to offer incentives ranging from a new car to color tv's, trips to Bermuda and gift certificates from local merchants is totally out of context with the concept of charity. 
We urge each student to look beyond all the frivolity and to realize the main purpose of Mardi Gras. We think each student should find time over Christmas to sell the two books that were distributed to him. 
MERRY CHRISTMAS 
AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR 

This is The Observer's last edition before New Year's. We have enjoyed serving you for these first few months. We hope you've enjoyed us there at noon (or thereabouts) each day. Our best wishes to all of you for a most blessed and happy holiday season. 
·David Breen, Business Manager Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. News Editor: Glen Corso SMC News Editor: Prudence Wear Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Ann Conway, Laura Haferd and Jeanne Sweenv Layout Editor: Mary Beth Crimmins Photo Editor: Mike Murphy 
The Observer staff 

:Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Features Editor: Dave Stauffer The opinions in the editorials, news "nalyses and columns of The Night Editor: T.C. Treanor 
Observer are solely those of the Copy Editor: Rick Smith authors and editors of The Observer Layout Design: Dave Bach 
and do not necessarily reflect the Layout: Margie Rurak, John Knorr, 
views of St. Mary's College, the Dave Bach 
Universitv of Notre Dame, their administration, faculty or studer.t

Headlines: Rick Smith, Randy Young 

Letters 
Apollo prayers 
Editor: 
I am using this opportunity of 
writing to you in order that I 
might urge all those students who 
have a little time in these busy 
days to write a short letter. 
I recently received a letter 
concerning Madeline Murray of 
Baltimore, who is circulating pe­
titions condemning the profes­
sion of faith by our astronauts 
during last summer's moon shot. 
It urged that as many people as 
possible write just a short note 
supporting the astronauts, and 
send it to Bill Mansdoerfer, Direc­
tor of Communications for 
Family Radio, San Francisco, 
California, 94134. Bill plans to 
personally deliver these toN ASA 
headquarters in Houston and to 
call a press conference. 
Thanks for your concern. A Student 
Woman's limited sphe'"e 
Editor: 
The recent election of a Miss Notre Dame was based solely on the pictures of those girls who were nominated, exactly what is miss n.d. to represent? the desir­able object? the beautiful acqui­sition? the valuable commodity? Woman has been forced to de­fine her femininity, for some time, in reaction to men. The media presents her as an object to be obtained and so an object which is useful in selling other objects (which are seen as neces­sary because they help one to possess the woman whom the media establishes as desirable). The limited sphere in which a woman is allowed to operate successfully has been set down by men. Since she has been convinced that she may be a woman only if she fulfills certain arbitrary obligations the woman comes to view herself as object. The election of miss n.d. illus­trates this problem rather blat­antly. Woman convinced she is woman when viewed as beautiful 
object never sees the irony of her position, never recognizes the injustice of the implications. Man "honors" beautiful object while somewhat indignantly as­serting that he truly respects her for herself. Should this woman ever assert herself by some form of independent thought she would be immediately seen as a threat. The expression of her ideas would be seen as aggressive and masculine and so peremptor­ily dismissed. It is time that woman learned to express their femininity by less arbitrary means and did so instead in a way which does them more jus­tice. It is time that woman did not fit easily, refused to fit so easily. 

Kathy Cecil 
Everglades upset 
Editor: 

Recent)y circulated a p e t i t i o n p r ,o testing t he construction of a government owned airstrip (to be used for t rajn ing pilots) across the Everglades of Florida . This airstrip, when completed will d,efinately dest,roy the Everglades National Park and displace the Indians now 'living 
in the area. The airstrips will cut off the flow of the Everglades River which waters the Park dump pollutants into the water' will create frequent soni~ booms,--all of which will drastically upset the ecological balance of a most beautiful wilderness area (one of our relatively few National Parks) 
unique not only to the United States, but to the world. Once an area of this sort is destroyed, 
the damage is permanent and, irreversible -the consequences to be suffered not only by us, but by our posterity forever atter. 
I was quite mildly shocked by the apathy shown by so many of the ND and SMC students con­cerning such an important issue. I would therefore like to thank Skipper (the Bush Kangaroo), Gentle Ben, Hymen Breaker, Smokey the Bear, Knute R. Rockne, and Ratzo for the help they gave me in my endeavor. 
May I also mention that to whomever signed the petition "Jack the Fart"-1 whole­heartedly agree!!! 
However, I sincerely would like to send my thanks to those who did give genuine support to a very worthy cause. 
Jeanne Mortimer 345 LeMans 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1969 


PAGE 5 

Motion filed in So. Bend court: asks for N D-Dow disclosure 
sary, the Dow-CIA protest that or egress from said Placement 
Monday, Dec. 8, a motion was brought about the restraining Office or areas adjacent thereto filed in South Bend Superior order is now history. His third and from interfering with the Court that, if passed, would re­reason is that the Court Injunc­faculty, administration, stu­quire the University of Notre tion being sought is very ambi­dents, employees or other guests. Dame to reveal in court any guous and unenforceable. of the plaintiff rightfully in said business contacts it may have To understand the third point Placement Office or areas adja­with Dow Chemical Company it is necessary to compare the cent thereto." and the Central Intelligence original restraining order and the If the defendants "interroga­Agency. proposed Court Injunction. The tories" are found relevant to the 
The motion, filed by Att. Paul Restraining Order states that the case and passed, Dedrick said 
B. Kushach on behalf of his defendants and their "consorts" that they will work against the 
ctNEM1' ·THEATRE 

clients Fred Dedrick, Brian arc "restrained and enjoined un­injunction three ways. First of Mcinerney, Rick Libowitz, and til further order of this court all, the university may drop the Tim MacCary, consisted of a from congregating and assemb­case rather than risk revealing 
208 .... ft41AIN • .NSH~~

series of questions or "interroga­ling in the Placement Office in any contacts it may have with tories" and a motion to produce the Administration Building Dow-CIA, according to Dedrick. 

Entert-a inm~t 

any documents related to those (Main Building) on the campus Secondly, the "interrogatories" questions. It was filed in connec­of the University of Notre Dame could show that it was Dow-CIA tion with the University's Res­or in any area near or adjacent that was hurt by the protest and training Order naming the above thereto or in any corridor, stair­not the university. If this is the students as defendants during way, doorway or entrance there­case then the University as the the Dow-CIA protest. to in such a manner as to disrupt plaintiff has no legal basis for 
The possible effect of the or interfere with the normal the injunction and it would be "interrogatories" passage was re­functions conducted by the Pla­dismissed. Lastly, Dedrick stated ported a few days ago by the cement Office and they arc fur­that the motion may reveal some South Bend Tribune. "If the ther restrained and enjoined other information that may be court rules in favor of the de­from blocking, hindering, imped­useful to the defendants to con­fense, Notre Dame may be re­ing or interfering with ingress to test the injunction. quired to answer questions such as 'Are there business relation­ships existing between the uni­
Coffeehouse reopened 
versity and the Dow Chemcial Co. and the universisity and the The SMC Coffeehouse is offic­a free coffee-and-donut break­CIA? And if the answers are 

ially re-opened and this Sunday fast in the mid-morning which affirmative, the university could will provide entertainment for Peterson noted would greatlythen be required to produce for 
benefit N.D. students with early

the first time ih more than ainspection and copying 'all the SMC classes. 
month.
contracts, documents, memoran­
For the weekend entertain­

Coffeehouse house managersda and other written instruments 
Nancy Hagen and Ann ment nights, Peterson said that including but not limited to any 
** SHOW TIMES ** 

Tiedeman, and publicity mana­the Coffeehouse is looking for 
financial investments the 

ger Pete Peterson plans for the new types of talent. 
FRI Hot lead 7:00 10:3C
university has in Dow now or in remainder of the school year to "Many complaints have come 

Satin Mush 8:41 aim at bringing the coffeehouse to us that we only have foldthe past 20 years, any grants or 
support the faculty or students 

to the attention of more stu­groups. Yet, not that many 
SAT Hot Lead 5:00 8:00 10:59
have received from Dow Chemi­
Satin Mush 6:41 9:41

dents as a study and recreation groups doing other ask to come cal Co. or the CIA in the past 20 
back or even audition," he said.

area.
years,' providing such docu­
SUN Hot Lead 1:00 3:59 6:58 9:58

Peterson said, "Basically we "We want to have more ments exist." 
Satin Mush 2:41 5:40 8:40 The purpose of the "interrog­
want to get more people down stand-up comic routines, poetry 
here. It seems ridiculous that readings and generally unusual atories", according to Dedrick people feel forced to leave the talents performing here." 
Dedrick, is prevent the univer­campus when all they want to A new rule has been set upsity from obtaining a Court In­

do is enjoy each other's com­and will go into effect this week­junction to replace the Tempor­
pany." end: No one will be admitted ary Restraining Order against the 
~~ 

"The Coffeehouse is open all without a college I.D. card. 
defendants and their "consorts". 


A Dedrick opposes the Court l n­study-the only place around accompanied by a Notre Dame 
day and it is a great place to Those not in college must be 
silly junction for three reasons. 
here with free coffee. We're or St. Mary's student. 
kilo me-First, he believes it would be going to buy a new stereo, so Performing this Sunday are '-.. """: ter longerbetter for the university and the 
there will always be some sort of Terry McManus and Mike ~ "VI; really meansstudents involved to settle the 
Powers; Edward Sheehy, Charles dispute without involving the entertainment." 

,.-~ !! a lot if you're
Still in the planning stage is Wordell and Eric Meyer, Olinda, 
0
courts and police. Next Dedrick 

the manager's idea of setting up and Pete Peterson. Films will be 
«: an avid ski
said the injunction is not neces­
wn. 

~ enthusiast. 
,§ • 

~ Whether you re a: ~ beginner or an ex· !ll pert, Caberfae and Big
Europe $189 

·.:.>/!1 "M" has what you ' re At IT'S //ERe 
• ~a ./" looking for, and much,
Round Trip Jet 
, ""'~' "'-J much more. For instance,

Universit-.· Charter's 6th Annual Charter Flight Series 
'd,.", ~ / our new aerial snowmaking

ISP11tns1ned by Notre Dame, St. Marys's -Students International 
,. ~ !1.. machine assures you of next­0 to-nature snow all year long,
non· stop Jet 
.-.\ · /' plus the very finest in uphill trans·
open bar and complete meals 
~~--<f portation. For the more
Detroit departures from near-by Metro Airport 
~ y .... enthusiastic indoor sportsman, our
$50 deposit, final payment in March 
-s' Ec;elweiss Lodge stands by ready and 
cancellation privileges urllil day of departure 
,~ willing with dinner by candlelight and
FIELDHOUSE 
complete range of travel services 
cocktails by danceside. We also have excellentFri. -A Christmas Happening 
our Ann Arbor office can book you into student priced hotels before 
overnight accommodations and just for the
10:01-11:11 p.m. 

you leave, and our london office will look after all your needs while 
record, we've accented the lodge from the game

you are in Europe room to the fourth floor in passion red. Give us a jingle 
I. -Christmas Cannabis Dance 
8-12m t 

-June 26 to August 26 -8 weeks Detroit/london/Detroit...........$229 on our hot line for ski conditions and lodge reservations 
-June 11 to July 27 -6 weeks N.Y./london/N.Y •........................ $189
N.J. Club Plane 
and find out for yourself why we're a silly kilometer longer in so many, many Wdys. Phone 616 775-9984

Open only to Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, faculty, staff· and immediate families 
Dec. 16 at Library Circle 
Big
$50 Deposit Rt>sefl!es Seats
3-4 I'.M. Baggage 
OMit Student
5:00, 5:30 Bus to Airport 

§'ceAiiRFAi M


ce Commission St. Mary's Contact 
CADILLAC, MICHIGAN MANISTEE, MICHIGAN 

arril•e Ne~vark about 8:30 4 E. Lafortune Student Center St. Mary's Student Services 283.7757 Organization 
SKI CABERFAE DURING THE INTERNATIONAL ICE AND SNOW FESTIVAL, JANUARY 10-17. 
Jan 4-/eape Kennedy 
a/ /0 pm 


J 

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1969

PAGE 6 
THB OBS£Rfl!'lt 

The worst Christmas story ever told 
Tom Ehrbar 

Henry Peter Christian gently tilted his head so that the nape of his neck was brought into soft contact with the plush of the throne. He dropped his eyelids, wheezed a prayer of exhaustion, and slid his thighs slightly forward so as to distort the calm of his cushioned seat. Christian' braced himself on. two hard rubber boot-heels and found comfort. 
For nearly three seconds he slept, then from somewhere in the store a balloon broke and a child wailed and a mother yelled and Christian awoke with a frantic jump. "Oh" was all he said. 
If Christian had slept longer he would have dreamed; and in the dream (it was always the same) Christian would see himself, comically at first, then more vividly, caught by the mistaken narrowness of someone's chimney, his limbs wrapped in all sorts of amazing contortions, his sack of treasures trapped above him. The position was futile, frozen. And from down below, muffled and vague, the darkened moan of what sounded like a disturbed child would leap its way up the chimney, up to him, banging its way against the walls of brick, followed by a louder, clearer echo, followed by an echo of even greater amplitude, followed by another. Until this insane, evil clamor surrounded the grotesque Christian and released a million angry pins into his throbbing brain. And his head would whirl, and his body would revolve in a splendid arc of motion, and his sack would spin in wild, contrary, 
dazzling gryations. Faster, faster, faster. And he, Henry Peter Christian, would suddenly dissolve, just spin himself right out of existence. 
But this time Christian had not dreamed, had not had time to. The wailing of a distant child saved him. "Oh" 
was  all  he  said,  but it  was  more  than  
enough.  
The  fairyland  clock  with  

elfin-characters for hands said 8 O'clock, so Christian, with an immense effort rose onto his wobbly ankles and lumbered toward the alterations room; a fat bag of stocking-shaped, red and white striped candy canes trailing his steps. 
Chrstian reached the door and closed it locked it behind him. The burden of e~dless, grinning, wondrous, fearful faces; and the burden of carefully practiced ho ho ho's and what do you want for 
Christmas Sally, were eased as he triumphantly hurled the bag into an empty corner. He heard the candy snap and break as the bag hit the floor. With a faint and hollow chuckle Christian collapsed his bulk on a tiny stool and sat strangely before an improvised dressing table. He knew he must hurry and so the ritual began. First the boots. Santa Claus slapped them loudly onto the floor with vigorous kicks, giving his feet some room to manuever; then he yanked and tugged until the awesome boots fell and sat in a silent pile. He rolled his dripping socks into a neat block and bounced them against the ceiling. 
He must hurry, Christian thought again. Why had he taken this crazy job anyway? Well he did need the money. Debts to be paid, obligations to be met, people depending on him, people needing his help, people he had made promises to. And this was his job just for the Christmas season and would soon be over anyway. But a red suit and a white beard? 
White beard. Santa Claus loosened the frail strings with awkward hands trying to be deft ones. He lifted the beard from his ears; white fluffs of cotton still clinging to his cheeks. Santa splashed warm soapy water over his head and massaged his face with a washcloth. Then he hoisted the great red coat from his shoulders and hung it on a hook. The suspenders came next, springing to normal shape; then the undershirt which stuck tenderly to his chest. With the washcloth he dabbed beneath his arms. 
From outside his door, Christian heard garbled sounds; the words "hope we're not too late" hid amid a rush of other ones. 
Santa scowled in a mirror with tired eyes. Hurry. His face, he thought, was too heavy. A bowl full of jelly, he laughed. Sant tightened the muscles in his face, pushing the skin around in odd directions and shapes. He read somewhere that this helped the complexion. He couldn't figure out how though. 
A knock on the door, persistent and urgent. Christian wondered who at this hour, his mind went blank, he unlocked the door, and opened it to three squirming, impatient boyish faces. "Where's Santa Claus" one of them demanded. The man in bare feet and red _trousers with pale, bare chest and a frightened look simply stuttered. The three boys looked at Christian curioiusly. Christian said "Santa has gone away ,boys, uh, up to the North Pole, he has alot of work to do. Tomorrow's Christmas, you know. I'm, uh, just one of his helpers. Why don't you all go home now and by the time you wake up all your presents will be there under the tree." 

Christian loaded the boys with broken candy canes and led them to the door. As they left in their hushed, imaginative thoughts, Christian closed his eyes in relaxed gratitude, saw the grotesque image of himself dangling in a chimney, and leaped back to the dressing table. 
In a flurry he tore his trousers from his legs, and hung a dark suit onto his frame. Hurry: 
As he left the room Santa Claus turned and sawutter disarray; his flashy, familiar outfit scattered in random chaos; a soapy puddle of water standing in a low spot on the floor. Santa sped past the shoppers making their last-minute purchases at this the last minute. He sped past a gyro-train that ran on the under-side of its tracks, past a Raggetty Ann Doll with an idiotic grin and a saleslady with an expression to match. He scampered through the revolving doors almost knocking the false teeth out of an old man's mouth. 
Santa Claus ran and ran, and he didn't stop till he had reached the sleigh over-loaded with treasures and glistening in the winter night's brilliance. He hopped into his seat, cracked a loud whip, and moved into the sky. 
And the next day was Christmas. 

IIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Rental or mental, I say it's Christmas spinach 

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1969 PAGE 7
THB OBJ'IRYIR 

Seniors aid in fresh man orientation 
by John Imler and John Broderick . 
/Jelow is reproduced a dialogue re­cently recorded by an OBSERVER writer who followed the speakers as they walked across the campus. For maximum noon­time chuckles may we suggest a choric reading performed by two of the people at your table whose voices fit the parts. Joe is a real brute of a senior, with a cavernous slow voice to match. Wilbert, a spindly first year man, makes high­pitched noises. 
Wilbert: Gosh, Joe, it's sure swell of you to show me the ropes like this. I mean otherwise I'd still be like the rest of those dumb innocent freshmen. 
Joe: Shucks, that's ok, Wilbert. I'm glad ta help a guy out-anything ta make ya more of an individual. 
W: flow's that one over in front of the dining ha ... 
J: Gees, watch yourself, kid! A guy could bust his ankle trippin' on one a them coffee cups like that. Wonder who the dumb idiot was what jest threw it in the grass out here. Least he coulda done was ta bust it against the side a Dillon like the rest a us do. 
W: It's ok, Joe... Maybe in front of LaFortune. 
J: D'ya know 'bout that place? Ya gotta be on your toes all the time kid. Sometimes, even on Saturday game morn­ings, a woman or girl'll walk through the place. I say any a them what's nervey enough ta walk through here deserves ta 
Once upon a time there was a girl known as Rudolpha, the red-nosed SMC girl. Rudolpha was a senior who had been an exemplary student for the last three previous years. But Rudolpha was un­happy. Poor Rudolpha, everyone knew her by her red, shiny nose and wherever she went everyone would say, "there goes Rudolpha, the girl with the red nose which glows!" Well you can just imagine how Rudolpha felt. 
But what really bothered Rudolpha most, was her failure to ever be asked out on a date by one of those fine-looking lads across the road. Neither Cupid Tell it to Tommy, Blitzen McCoy, Prancer Barz, nor Dasher McKenna would ask her out. Rudolpha didn't have any friends so naturally nobody could get her a blind date. When she resorted to the sopho­more dating system once again alas, her red nose foiled her attempts. 
Well as Christmas vacation rolled around all of the SMC girls and ND lads busily got ready to go home. But it came upon the midnight clear an extremely dense fog over our little town of South Bend. In fact the fog was so bad that nobody could leave by road, by train, or by plane because it would he too much of a risk. Can you imagine the plight of all the students? 
All of the SMC girls appealed to Santa Turnbull, asking what they were to do. Santa immediately sought the advice of be sexually molested. It's our campus. 
W: Joe, how come the Dome's gold? That's not an Irish color. Green is. It oughtta be green! You know that green paint in my room? I'm gonna paint it. .. The Green Dome. 
J: Shoot, why not; it's your paint and a g_uy oughtta be able ta do what he wants with what's his. 
W: You recognize that girl over by the fieldhouse? She's wavin' at ya, Joe. 
J: 
Uh... Yeh! Sure. That's Anne. She was one of the famous "Milwaukee 7." Also one of the "Lower Bogaloosa 32" who poured that pineapple nectar all over Dole's fruitpicker files. The rotten imperi­alists wouldn't let their fruitpickers pick their noses while they was pickin' fruit. 

W: Wow! What a girl that Anne Arkie! 

J: 
Hey, let's check over by the library. . . Look at that damn ugly mud path with 


all those puddles cut right across the grass. 
W: Yeh. The lazy grounds crew ought­ta get over here with a Rota-Tiller and dig it all up. That way we could have straight mud, with no puddles. And we wouldn't 
have to hypotenuse across water to save those 6 seconds. 
W: Joe, I forget, does Jacko live in Grace or Flanner Hall? I can never remember. 
J: You remember how I told ya ta keep 'em straight, kid: Peter Grace/Pet Hampster. 
W: Oh yeh. I always remember how he taught us to scalp those little beasts with your bare teeth. Sure makes swallowing 


her Student Assembly, but alas they were still in suspension. She then ran on to see Scrooge McGrath, who was too busy counting his money from his recent tui­tion hike of $200, to even listen to Santa Turnbull. Oh, said Santa, what shall I do? Dasher McKenna and Santa Turnbull put their heads together but all seemed hope­less. Good King Hesburg naturally wasn't around so they didn't know what to do. 
All of a sudden Santa Turnbull had a brain storm. Hark, she said, rest you merry gentleman, I have solved our prob­lem. Naturally our heroess Rudolpha was the solution. Santa ran over to Rudol­pha's room and beseeched her saying, "Rudolpha with your nose so bright won't you dimb to the top of Grace Tower tonight." So Rudvlpha climbed the decks of the hall until she reached the top. With her shiny red nose she lit up the sky and South Bend's usual bright wea­ther seemed to have returned. 
Well now you can imagine how all the SMC girls loved her and they shouted out with glee, "Rudolpha the red nose SMC girl, you'll go down in SMC history." 
Oh yes and by the way Rudolpha never had to worry about dates again after this because while she was climbing up to the top of Grace Tower, she encountered a ND lad who had an equally red nose from his indulging in the "spirits". Their noses immediately fell in love and they are now dating forever happily. 
goldfish a sissy sport. midnight. We're supposed ta meet the rest Joe, that finger on the Moses statue, it a the guys. Put the tree down. offends me. W: Not right here. Security'll sec it. 
J: Then come over here with a hack You and I know this is good clean fun, 
saw, cut if off, and stick it in his ear or hut those antiq uers'll probably see some­somethin'. Ya pay $3000 a year ta go thing wrong in a guy gettin' his tree with here. That oughtta give ya some say in good old-fashioned Christmas spirit. 
the art on campus. J: Right. We'll drag it over to the D-1 parking lot. Security'll never check over
J: That's it over there! We've found it, 
there.
Wilbert Babyee. Right size, good spread, W: Joe, look at that kid kickin' thenice green color... the perfect Christmas crap out a that car. Maybe we should stoptree for the room. 
him or somethin'.
W: But it's right out in front of the J: Heck no. S'not our car. 'Sides we'dLibrary. 
embarrass him, or maybe if he's on 
J: Wrong. It's right behind the Radia­scholarship he'd lose it. Let him alone. tion Building. Nobody cares what ya take We gotta meet the guys. from behind buildings. Get the ax. W: We gonna bust out lights again 
W: Yo ho, Yo ho, it's back to the room tonight, huh, Joe? 
J: Yup, kid, gotta keep things lookin'we go. 
dim around here . 
J: Wait a minute, kid; it's almost 
~~~:~:::~:!:::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::..·:::::::::::::!:::::::~:~:~:~:~:~:!:=:!:::::~:=:=;~;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::': 
¥ Dave Stauffer ~jljIA second grade Christmasl 
~ ~ 
Yesterday's Christmases seem far away in time but not in memory. 
Below is an honest effort by a strug­gling second grader to relate to an old, un-Christmasy second grade teacher the facts of tlze original Christmas. 
The picture at the right is included to provide visible proof that the author was at age seven as advanced musically as he was in literary endeavors. (That's me on the snare drum, with my sister on brass and my little brother backing up on the old tom-tom). 

th£ J'roRY or CHR!JTt'/fj 
ElHt JTORY~OF :Jf.5£S, TH[8[ I WA5 
• !\ L" or f\1/\ nED H!1A~ 'r.' ttrvo 1\ M/11vIVAn~=. o''JOJEPh'.' 0 IV£. Df\ Y ALL TJi £.. e.r:.ort...£ HAD TO GO TO li/J ZR.F..T.H~·onARY lifV ocTosE. P,H. H" o 1o Go ro. . :JO.)EPH f_ ·GOT TrJ E. DOfVI1£Y' READY; _/1 N0 TH~ Y S.J11RT£/J OJV rt-; .E ' R wA'Y, 1r To c: tr DAYs11 ;v/)IV I G /-1 TJ T0 G~ f. rH£I ~ f3 U.I TH EY FINE~)~ GOT TfJ/:.1~, TI-lt Y SI/VGEDUf It, J3 I G B0 otr. Tfl EIV ..-T1'1 E._Y WE-AIT TO fJ NDi A 'Pi, ACE.. B Ul! Tl-f E'( CO()LJ) fVOT t/fvD A PL!iGE! So Tt-JE'( C/1Ht:.. to A ~OC/Sf. "/11f1fl/l.l CA f1 [ 10 T H t:, nop~. C. I( tJ. w c:. iTAY J-u~ rt;: To ·-· (VIGI-JT." .J ~I D J05 EPIJ. WE L.L. ('t.'A Ct/'v J!!IY T'/1' 1/VT_ftA,T c5TAYBE...L. W£.LL·;,-~ 0.'\,'_. /l{VD TI-t IS IS WtJ/::rv Jf-.5/S) L-0 M"f-.5 11'1• TH ~y W~E: WI To TN£ STAYS E. t.... LATF ~ ifttir f\1 16 HT .TEStS WA5 rJC,~i/. /1118Y ~115 PROi7 U, AtJIJ J.DS f_ Pli Wlf 5 /-lAPP~. tHAi fV IGrJ T TN RE E WI S£ Mc IV &AM (, /ltv0 v£.5 t5 GROW AND C:JP..OW f\ fVD H£ PRAY:~D r1Nh PRAY£{). AND lt-lA1l5. THf .)f® ,f\ )• oF 
CH R(.ST MAS.­
SMC  Coffeehouse  
Sunday night:  8-12  Charley Wordell & Eric Meyer)  
$.25 to go to Scholarship  Olinda plus  
-films featuring the Keystone Cops  
Pete Peterson  
Terry McManus & Mike Powers  Voting will be held today from II :00 to 12:30 in the SMC Dining Hall (Mc­ 
Candless) for:  

Edward Sheehy Chorsee Hendron (formerly known as MR. ST. MARY'S 


FRIDAY, D!:CEMBER 12, 11 969
PAGE 8 
THE OBSERfiER. 

Mardi Gras raffle tiCkets given to students 
by Dave Fromm • 

' Notre Dame and St. Mary's Relief Fund. a long list of student prizes. For Ed's, St. Joseph; District 3: books gives students one ·chance students will each have received "Early distribution of tickets each book a Notre Dame student Far I e y, Breen-Phi 11 ips, on an Easter Bermuda trip. at least two books of Mardi Gras will enable students to sell them sells he will receive one chance Cavanaugh, Sorin, Walsh; Since the winners of the color raffle tickets from their over the Christmas vacation," on the student grand prize, a District 4: Alumni, Dillon, televisions and the Bermuda respective hall representatives by Murphy said. 1970 Triumph Spitfire. Pangborn, Fisher; and District 5: trips will be drawn from each today, according to raffle Tickets are one dollar apiece Second prize is a $100 Badin, HowarJ, Morrissey, district, students will be chairman Pat Murphy. and will give the buyer a chance shopping spree in South Bend. Lyons, Carroll, and Holy Cross. competing against the students 
Mardi Gras, slated for on a 1970 Buick Rivera with all The top campus _salesman will The top five distr'i-cJ salesmen in their districts for these prizes. February 5-l 0, is an annual fund the options. receive a trip to Bermuda for the will receive $100 Gilbert's gift St. Mary's students will be r;tising affair. All proceeds from Students will receive a 20% Easter vacation. certificates. The second and given one chance for every book ticket sales and from booths set commission on the tickets they Other student prizes are third top district salesmen will they sell on a $200 gift up in Stepan Center will be sell. Since each book contains structured around a district each receive $50 certificates. certificate for Bonwit Teller, an allocated to various Notre Dame ten tickets students will keep system. There are five districts. Within each district, salesmen exclusive woinen's store in New charities, Murphy said. Among two dollars for every book they They are: District 1: housing will receive one chance on a York, Chicago, and other these charities are CILA, the sell. Flanner and Grace Halls; District color television for every book prominent cities. Bengal Missions, and the Biafra Other sales incentives include 2: Zahm, Keenan, Stanford, St. they sell. A sale of two or more Second and third prizes are 
.JIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII'i. $100 gift certificates. The top 
hall saleswoman will receive
-

: : $50 certificate to Bonwit Teller. 
a 
"The Mardi Gras Committee
-


: : feels that by having a greatE number of student prizes the : students will be motivated to sell
5 as many books as possible," 
: Murphy said. : ''But we hope that the : students will also sell their books 
with the idea in mind that people in need will benefit from their efforts," he continued. 
Campus security 
59( 
II 

starts new plan--for parking lots
-
•
• 
-
-

Action is being taken to rem­
edy the troublesome situation in 
• the parking lot, it was revealec,l
5 yesterday
--•
-
• •
--

by Director of Sec­
: urity Arthur Pears. Feeling that
5 secrecy
•
-

would be necessary for 
: success, Pears was unable to
5 reveal too many details, but did 
: made known that the Dean of
5 Students' office


is planning ac­
: tion that would include student
5 patrols. 

: Pears felt that, while the park­
E ing lot situation was far from : perfect, the positive action of 
-
•
-
-

: campus security was often ig­
: nored by/student critics of cam­5 pus secunty. He went on to say 
: that the office of Security is : open to student applications to : assist in patrolling. : Pears also revealed a few : incidents which occurred in the : last few days. Two took place in 
5 the parking lots. Between Mon­
: day, December 8 and Wednes­
: day, December 10 a car was broken into in the D 1 parking lot, though nothing apparently stolen 
In another incident, a tire was stolen from the car of Elizabeth Kennedy during the night of Wednesday, December 10. : According to the reports of the : security guard, the thief evi­
i: dently had hid while the guard
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
• 
-
-
.. 
--

-theft of two large signs from St.-
-
-

was patrolling in the vicinity, 
then stole the wheel as soon as 
the guard left. The car was 
parked in C2 parking lot, and 
the incident was reported at 
1: 15 a.m. yesterday . 

Burger King. Home of theWhopper. 
On Wednesday, December 10, 
a door was pulled off its hinges 


in Lyons Hall bClstment. Money 
was stolen from tt:e student's 
rpom in Zahm Hall on the same day. The student claimed that the money, totalling $17 was 

stolen while he was asleep.
-
-
• 

Pears also announced the
-
Mary's on Sunday, December 7. Pears revealed that SMC intends 
-
-
-
--

to prosecute. Contemporary Arts Festival
-501 DIXIEWAY NORTH, 
Chairman Dick Roddewig
. 
• 
-

revealed yesterday that the fea­
ture length film "Yellow Sub­
-

~1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111; ­
SOUTH BEND 

manne" had been stolen from 
the steps of Washington Hall 
-
about a month ago. 

The film leasing company is 
demanding the film or full pay­
ment of $I 300. 

.. 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12,1969 THE OBSERfiER 
PAGE 9
---------------·-----· 
Shuttle bus fare stays •1n 

ing because of the nice wc<tlher euucationaf l'OStS, because the :
by Prudence Wear 

SMC News Editor and the night-time scrvicc Sl'em­college is earning :.~11 the over-: ed as I hough it would lose flow from the night runs," Turn-:
St. Mary's Collegc presidcnt, 

money," she said. hull s<tid. 
: Christmas Boutique

Rev. John J. McGrath refused a "Now that winter has sct in, The proposal would not have :proposal from the Student Af­
thc bus is always packed. We effected the I0 cent charge for : .
fairs Counl·il which would have have a strong suspicion that the Notre Dante students us the stun :
eliminated the I0 cent shuttlc Sat. & Sun. 1 -5 pm .
night f<tre is covering part of the in question was only St. Mary's : •hus chargc for SMC students. 
daytime fee supposeuly being half of the Notre Dame-St. :The proposal, sent out last 
. .
paid by the collegc from our Mary's shuttle bus expenditure. . SMC clubhouse
(ktoher, suggested that Ihe ad­.•
.­

ministration and stlllknt govern­• ment split whatever lhe bus : ··=•
•
company's charge would he for : • night runs, I ht'rl·hy n:moving the : .
.
.
hunkn from I he students. : . SBI' Susan Turnbull said thai . : ..• "Fr. Md;ralh's financial advisors : .
. 

told him thai the colkge wuld : .-­
.
nol possibly afford to pay even : 
.
half I he hill." .. ­
-
Turnbull noted thai at the : .. ­lll'ginning of the yt•ar I he college : -.. 
Sl'l'lllCd uanxious" (O (Jkl' Up the : .•
.
otTer. "The students wen: walk-: .
.. 
.
'Save the arts ' . -. 
.
-
.­
purpose of UAC .
.­
. 
-
(mii/1/IIII'U from flllf(l' J) . 
we're always looking tor better ideas. 
"We're trying to create an cnvironment fur lhl' arts. More and nwn· lTl'aIiw people arc rl·alit.ing I he m·ed for Ihis l'Vl'ry day and we hupt• that the Ad­. ­IIIJ!ltslration is doing likewisc." .•
.
Kronk bemoaned the fad that . I he Arts Council is print·ipally .
.
Hknlificd with its "saVt' the . 1-'icldhoust•" program. 
"Our aim is nul to savt• the 1-'ieldhouse," Kronk saiu. "hut rather to save the arts. We're making an investment in I he arts and we're confident thai the rdurn will o.:ome." 
Kronk pointed out lh<tt the 

. 
Ails Council as a body is nol .
.
dirt•clly involwd in I ht• sl ruggle In save the old t:ieldhoust•. The .
.
.
<'ummillee for the lkwlupment •
.
of I he Arts <\·ntcr, which is ­ntrrcnlly lll'ading the program, ­
. -­
1s noI alligned wil h the UAC hut .
-

• ­
is 111 close o.:o-operat ion with . .-• . . Ihcm. The Arts Council's pur­. .. ­pose. aco.:ording to Kronk, is to .• . 
. .
foster a "rcn<oissance" of I he arts 
.
at Notre l>;.11ne. .
. .
. .
"There is no question ahout .• ..the ability here on campus, hut, .. . 
.•
hopefully, with a push, till' ere-: .
.
ativity can become dynamic anu : .. 
.
fruitful, not only to society and : . 
Notre Dante, hut, ntore irnpor-S .• 
tantly, to the person himself." : The /ampyridae beetle family. artificial glow by m1xrng luciferin now get a digital readout of bacteria :
.

. 
Delight of small boys. Biological and luciferase wherever life is concentrationinamatterofminutes. : light bulb. And prime source of present. Other potentially lifesaving uses :
'59 grad defends .. • 
raw material for another DuPont Noting that phenomenon, DuPont for the biometer are being sug-:
•

Fr. Lyons article . -• innovation. scientists and engineers went on gested every day-such as diagnos-E . Luci{erase, an enzymatic protein to develop it into a practical ana-ing metabolic rates, enzyme de-E 
continued from page I 
: with intriguing properties, obtain-lytical system. Correlating the in-ficiencies and nerve damage. : 
Finn, who said in an interview : able only from fireflies. Luci{erin, tensity of the artificial "glow" with Innovation-applying the known : that he knew Lyons personally, E an organic molecule also found in the amount of ATP present in to discover the unknown, inventing E praised the controversial priest' : fireflies, but synthesizable. Adena-bacteria, they designed a means of new materials and putting them to : freely. : ' t · h h (ATP) · th t· k · h d · :
"Father Lyons has a distin-E sme np asp ate , a common measunng e reac 1on. wor , usrng researc an engrneer-E guished educational back-: energy-yielding substance found in The result is the luminescence ing to create the ideas and products : ground," Finn saiu, "He has : all living cells. biometer-the first really basic im-of the future-this is the venture : written a number of books and : Those are the three main ingre-provement in bacteria-counting DuPont people are engaged in. : has debated on college campuses E dients in /ampyridae's love light. methods since the time of Louis You can become one of them, : <til over thc country." When E And because ATP is common to all Pasteur. Rather than waiting days and advance professionally in your : asked whether Fr. Lyons would : living cells, university researchers for a culture to demonstrate growth chosen field. See your Du Pont : dchate the Rustin appointment : discovered they could produce an density, a doctor or technician can Recruiter. Or send us the coupon. : 
at Notre Dame, Finn aumitted : : 
that he did not know for sure, : r-----------------------------------, : 
but he speculateu that Lyons E DuPont Company E would. "lie's debated <tt Notre : Room 7890, Wilmington, DE 19898 : Damc several times before." S I'd like your latest information on opportunities at S 
Echoing a statement by : o p t t d t ·th d · :
Lyons, Finn said, "It's really a : u on or gra ua es WI egrees m_____ S 
. . 
shame that so many qualified : Name : 
Negroes arc ignored for someone E University________________ ! like Rustin. I don't think that : : any <tppointmcnt should be -. made with <In eye towards ~ :::::: Graduation Date ~ ~ 
donations. I think they should 5 • •uu_,,,,on •
he m<tde on lhc issue of individ­
• City State Zip : 
ual merit. 
§ An Equal Opportunity Employer (M/FJ Ventures for better living. E Finn is a graduate of Notre Dame, d<tss of 1959. 
: L----------------------------------~ : 
illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll: 
PAGE 10 THE OBSERJJBR FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1969 
-
-
-
GSU releases T A report 
Dave Folts, and John Quenneville heading to Chicago on Monday for a special meeting with the Trustees. As King explains it, this meeting was originally set up to help with the T A question, but now that this seems to be settled, he sees it as a means of keeping the lines of communication open between the two groups in a hope that the Trustees will be moro aware of the various problems facing today's graduate student. 

Appropriately enough, the 
G.S.U. has planned a celebration for Saturday night at the Izaak Walton League Club House at 20400 Darden Road. Tickets are still available from the delegates in each department at $1.00 each or $1.50 oer couple. · 
Dean closes semin a,r 
into effect, he said. 

At this point, said Lawless, "the effect of inadequate en­forcement becomes evid1~nt." Lawless stated that cities of 500,000 average two inspectors. Even those few inspectors become frustrated as they find the city's attorney poorly pre­pared in court and are taken away from their jobs by red tape, he said. "It may be three years after the offense that the case getw into the court," Lawless explained. 
The one effective technique, Lawless said, is an injunction procedure where the evidence is clear and has become over­whelmingly distracting. "'This requires impetus. An aggrieved individual may launch such an action," he said. Lawless stated that the industries are hurt more by the denting of their public relations image rather than the fine imposed. 
7118 OBSERJIU.

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1969 PAGE 11 
Pollution: ' ... the worst of times' 
by Jan Reimer  have thus created what Daniel Moynihan, Nixon's urban advis­ a salvage market with aluminum cans. However, man needs to  would also reward good per­formances against pollution.  
Professor Frederick Dow of the Notre Dame Business School yesterday stressed the responsi­bility of a business executive in environmental improvement. Addressing a library auditori­um group as part of the Pollu­tion-Action Now Symposium, Dow paraphrased Dickens in des­cribing the I 960's: "the best of  or, calls "maximum feasible mis­understanding" of pollution causes and solutions. While overreactive counter­productive laws could strain the economy, immediate response is demanded; Lake Erie is dead. Dow questioned whether the SST would contribute to the greenhouse effect.  recycle his resources; Dow gave as an example the extraction of methane--a useful by-product­by the Japanese from garbage. Dow compared our situation with industrial safety conditions of the early 1900's. Workman's compensation, safety standard laws, the union trend, and espec­ially the National Safety Council  The next years are vital for pollution abatement and envir­onmental control. The corporate executive, wielding a huge organ­ization, must have a responsibili­ty greater than the ordinary hu­man moral standard; polluting a river affects more people than a leaking septic tank.  

OBSERVER STAFF 
CALL THE OBSERVER TODAY 

times ... the worst of times." Dow stated that an executive eventually resulted in a sharp p•••••••!!~i••~!~!~•~-..--------....---' must be concerned with produc­
Dow noted that some pollu­decline in industrial accidents. 
Support Your Local Fieldhouse tion is the payment for past tion itself and its product's ef­Dow would like to see pollution 
live sound
Fri. nite -10:01 ·11:11 AM 

neglect such as soil erosion from fects. statistics occupying as much at­
A Christmas Happenin!l 
live light

strip mining. However, our prob­Concerning production, cor­tention as safety records now 
Sat. nite 8-12 midnight 

lem primarily results from the porations should follow regular­hold. 
Christmas Cannabis Dance live people 

peculiar American success-with ly-reviewed standards. Each , He promoted a national coun­
First Friday, Brand X Greater North Bay Alchemical Co. llghtshow

its insatiable consumer demand company should appoint a seni­cil for environmental pollution, and exploding technology. These or executive to function as dir­comprised of corporations, tech­have resulted in 90 million autos ector of pollution abatement­nical societies, unions, universi­which cause 90% of our air serving both as conscience and ties, cities and non-profit organi­pollution, the Santa Barbara oil administrator to the manage­zations. It would compile and leak, and 48 billion annually­ment's anti•pollution program. integrate present information so 
... 
manufactured cans. Dow com­His attitude should stimulate a that enlightened industry could ented that these figures seem corporate board to constantly set up rigorous but reasonable obscene, quoting Richard Doan, standards. Through meetings and 
research the problem, not mere­ly to confront crises.
Dow Chemical President: "our news bulletins, the council could society is like an enriched petri identify gaps in enforcement and
When evaluating products, culture drowning in its own Dow noted that we are being suggest research. While admitting waste." buried by our own waste. He that the actual value of our commended Reynolds Alumi­
The business executive must environment is more than an num for their project supplying 
first be acquainted with forces economic tenTI, the council shaping our essentially urban society. Increased affluence 
DRIVE-A-WAY 

must change values-from mater­ial security to self-realization-if 
to FLORIDA 

pollution is to be opposed. Dow around Dec. 16thcommended this trend, as exem­plified in last evening's meeting to discuss pollution in South 
married or grad students preferred 

Bend. The professor admitted that 
expenses paid environmental pollution is an emotionally-charged word-like crime in the streets or Raquel 
call 233-7107 Welch. Pragmatic politicians 
Mr. Barkley 
NOTRE DAME'S NEW TRUSTEE 

ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT 
This Artic{e by Daniel Lyons, S.J., black people who are militants are Communist League, recruiting organized a ·'peace march" to is reprinted from the Nov. 23 issue of anarchists or Reds, or just plain racists, students for the Communist Party. Moscow, under the sponsorship of the TWIN CIRCLES, Box 2746, Culver get all the prominence! Notre Dame is Reported the Saturday Evening Post very left-wing Nonviolent Action 
City, California. 
doing the Negro people a disservice. (July 11, 1964): "Those first years in Committee against Nuclear Weapons. They want to have nothing to do with New Y."'lrk Rustin gave most of his Rustin's activities with SNCC and the few among their race who are on earningf to the (Communist) the New York school boycott in 1963 the Far Left. Most Negroes are Party..... " He then became Race gave him much national publicity and 
When the Ford Foundation made a 

religious people. Only a handful have Relations Director for the Fellowship acceptance. Regarding his previousgrant a few years ago to the University 
been attracted to Communism. of Reetmciliation, one of the oldest conviction for sexual perversion, he of Notre Dame for a study on inter­Unlike the vast majority of Negroes, and 'tarf ~t pacifist groups working for argued that judgment must be made national problems, it stipulated that Rustin has never been happy about the Left. His boss was A. J. Muste, "by my peers," whereupon Martin Gerhart Niemeyer, who teaches at being an American. He has deliberately who worked all his life for Luther King rushed to his defense. 

Notre Dame, be banned from the cultivated a British accent: "I fought it Communism. Muste assigned Rustin to Rustin tried to deny he had ever discussions. Professor Niemeyer, who for years, against being American -in work for the Congress of Racial been a Communist, but he could never also lectures at the National War Col­my speech, manner, everything ..... " He Equality (CORE). say he is not at least a Socialist. As lege, is the most knowledgeable person calls himself a political actionist who Rustin was arrested 18 times in the recently as five years ago he was about Communism on the Notre Dame believes in "social dislocation and South on what he called the Journey soliciting funds for the Socialist faculty. It was in keeping with many creative trouble." He is in much of Reconciliation. He was also arrested League for Industrial Democracy. lie of the Leftist causes espoused by the demand as a lecturer on college several times as a demonstrator, and has been actively involved with Ford Foundation that it made such a campuses and continually calls for a served at least two short jail sentences Liberation Magazine, a Socialist request. It was also in keeping with the "social and political revolution" in the in New York City and Washington, D. publication, and declares: "The greatpolicy at Notre Dame in recent years 
United States. He was opposed to the C. task before the Negro of the future that it readily acceded to this basic 
war against Hitler, and has always been From 1955 to 1960 Rustin worked will require him to hammer at the infringement on its freedom. 
a bitter critic of our defense of South as secretary to Martin Luther King, Jr. basic contradictions of our society and Notre Dame has just made an even 
Vietnam. During World War II he While doing so he continued to hold work towards its socialization." He has more serious concession to the Left. It 
served 28 months in prison. While on a his· position as Executive Secretary to also been connected with the Women's has added the notorious Bayard Rustin 
lecture tour in 1953, he was arrested the War Resisters League, a International League for Peace and to its influential Board of Trustees. It 
by the police in Pasadena, California, Communist front. In 1957, while Freedom and other Leftist and is the first time a Negro has been for vagrancy and lewdness. He pleaded working closely with Martin Luther Communist fronts, too many to added to the governing board, and the guilty to a charge of sex perversion King, he attended the 16th National itemize here. 
choice could hardly have been worse. 
and served 60 days in jail. Convention of the Communist Party, Why has the University of Notre Rustin worked directly for the 
accompanied by Muste. At the time he Dame appointed such a notorious Communist Party for a period of years Served Communists Well 
was also a member of the American character to its Board of Trustees: and has remained a Communist After leading the first school Forum for Socialist Education, which Does Notre Dame think for a moment -· sympathizer most of his life. There boycott in New York City in 1963, he was identified as a Communist front it is honoring the Negro people in seel'ns no indication he is not a opened up a New York office of the that same year by the Senate selecting such an infamous person: Communist sympathizer now. Studnet Non-violent Coordinating Subcommittee on Internal Security. Doesn't Notre Dame know about 
committee (SNCC). He was criticized Bayard Rustin's background? Or
Criminal Record Peace March 
in Congress and in the press, but doesn't it care? In the words of many 

Hayard [{ustin spent years in denied -not under oath -that he had In the following year, 1958, Rustin of the students, faculty, and alumni Federal prisons and local jails. He is ever been a member of the Communist organized King's march on alike: Who invited HIM? not at all representative of the vast Party. He could never deny that he has Washington, which the Communists This advertisement was paid for by majority of Negroes. How unfortunate served the Communists well. For years boasted in The Worker was one of John Finn, Jr., Notre Dame Class of 
it is that the very small percentage of .he was an organizer of the Young their projects. The same year he 1959. 

THE OBSERVER. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1969

PAGE 12 
Grapplers blasted 29 -3 
The Purdue Boilermakers, cher was defeated by a t111Td Irish Coach Terry Mather said of bent on revenging a setback period pin. ~he l'akons, "They sent five handed them last season by the Notre Dame faces another boys to the national tournament Notre Dame wrestling team, ac­tough opponent this Saturday last year-the Air Force is a well complished their mission with when they travel to Colorado to conditioned, well coached team. ease Wednesday night in Lafay­tangle with the Air Force Aca­l expecf this to be one of our 
ette, drubbing the Irish 29-3. demy. In his pre-season analysis most difficult matches this The loss was the first of the season." season for the Notre Dame grap­plers, who were victorious in their two previous outings this 
Ind. pigskin playoff?
season, topping Valpariso i~ a 

..-.·~~ .11eet and copping first place in the Rochester Invita­INDIANAPOLIS (UPI) The word in the matter, including tional Tournament last weekend. principals of Indiana's 309 the structure of such playoffs, 
Tom Ciaccio, wrestling in the football playing high schools next meets Jan. 13-14. 118 pound weight class, record­hold the answer whether this "Only A Proposal" ed the only Irish points of the will become the 24th state to "Ours is only a proposal," 
·match by winning a 6-3 decision. sponsor post season playoffs. said Brown, who did much of The win gave Notre Dame a 3-0 The IHSAA Thursday mailed the preliminary work. "This lead but the Irish wrestlers were questionnaires to the school would be a playoff in three unable to score thereafter, drop­chiefs, results of which will he classes-it would not be a ping nine consecutive matches. tabulated •and submitted to the tourney. In a sense, it would still 
Captain Keith Giron was just Board of Control early next be a 'mythical' championship 
beaten in the I 26 pound class, month. since not every school would be losing a 3-2 decision on riding Previously, polls conducted involved in deciding the time. The next two matches among coaches in Indiana show winners." 
were also close and bitter defeats that the great majority favored Brown thought the playoffs to accept. John Maas (134) lost state-wide play offs, and could not be activate; before a 4-2 decision and Ken Ryan indications were that most I 9 7 I possibly later. 
( 142) was edged 3-0. The principals would go along with Participation would be optional, 
Boilermakers completely con­their athletic staffs' he said.' trolled the final six matches of recommendations. Class 3 would be for the night however, as Bob Habig The questionnaires were schools under 500 enrollment. 
(150) lost 7-1, Jim Hansen (ISH) scheduled to be returned to the Class 2 would be for schools was trounced 19-4, Tom Powell IHSAA by Dec. 22, ·assistant 501 to 999 enrollment. 
(167) was shutout 6-0, Greg commissioner Ward E. Brown Class I would be for schools Abrams (177) went down 12-5, said. The IHSAA Board of with enrollments above Bill Hasbrook ( 190) succumbed Control, which has the final I ,000. 14-7 and heavyweight Eric Bott-
JIM MURRAY 
Blitz Baby ~ .. 


Seeks Title 
@ 1969, Los Angeles Times 


law changed by their antics, and it was required ofIf you were to look out of the window of your a man to do something besides groan to win a title. 
car and see an apparition on Wilshire Blvd. wearing But the image of the British fighter didn't change a bowler hat and a furled umbrella and looking as until Tommy Farr came over. Tommy was a booth if he were expecting rain or a bus to Charing Cross fighter from Tonypandy, Wales, and he didn't Station that would be the eminent gentleman Alan mind getting hit by strangers. In fact, it didn't Rudkin, late of Liverpool. · evt:n hurt. And he went 15 rounds with Joe Louis 
Don't be fooled by the clothes. He's a trades­at a time when it was widely felt a live lion man, not a toff. He bleeds for a living, doesn't ride couldn't do that. Joe never fought him again, some to hounds. He does not have a lot of initials after say because it took too long for the swelling in his his name. Nobody ever painted his ancestors' hands to go down the first time. Tommy had a picture sitting on a horse or with a sword in their chin like a statute. 
belt. If anybody took Rudkins' picture it would be But a new clement had entered the pugilisticlaying bricks. 
relationships between the two countries. Affluence He wears the clothes to let the world know he's 
has obliterated the American front icr. Fighters a British pugilist. Now, there was a time when who used to sleep on rocks or do roadwork there was a much simpler way to tell. If the fighter running from railroad dicks or drink soup out of a •.vas vertical, he wasn't British. If he was horizon­can and fight in carnivals for nickels and dimes tal, he was. 
wt:re now down to chocolate eelairs and slel·pingThe British usually made their fight like a guy with their shoes off.· 
hanging pictures. It was a kind of stately gavotte Mt:anwhile, hack in Blighty, the Blitz was on. 
which had everything but the music by Mozart. 
Boxing was gctl ing, so to speak, a shot in tht: arm The Americans, on the other hand, from the from Adolf llitler. Food was short, sugar was turn of the century, made their fight like a guy non-existent. and kids slept in subways. This madewhose head was being held under water by two them (I) sm<Jll; (2) hard. 
drunks. The Americans had hard bellies from Alan Rudkin is a Blitz baby. He was born in chopping cotton or riding rods and, the plal·es Wales, because pregnant women were eval·uated they fought, when you got knocked down, they from Liverpool in November, 1941, because ma­didn't start counting 10, they started kicking you. 
tcrnit y wards appeared to he considered st ralegic They fought like something that didn't have any military targets. But he was brought back at once mother. You were better off fighting something to Liverpool whne he slept on ruhble and learned that could bite. 
to fight hcfore he learned to write. 
'Phaintin' Phil' Recalled 
Alan won the bantamweight tit It: of the 1-:mpire
The prototype of the Briton was "Phaintin' 
on his fl'et. and with his fists not his fal·e. But he 
Phil" Scott who ended 12 fights unconscious on gets one tough break: Americans don't growthe floor between 1925 and 1930 and won six of bant<JillWl'ights any more. So pugilism has had to them. He didn't practice sparring, he practiced scour thl' Orient, thl' Caribbean and Lttin America grimacing. He won the British Empire champion­to find guys who l'an make the weigh!. Alan getsship and five other fights on his back, yelling ·one so tough, Ruben Olivart·s of Ml·xico. Friday"Foul!" The British, in short, didn't win the war night in lhl' 1-'orum that you'd h<JVl' to think this but the peact:. Not the fight, hut the dt:bate. Scott 
guy's first I 0 victories were OVl'r things that worked out with the heavy bag when hl' came to 
howled and <~ll' things with the hl'<Jd still on. Alan New York and a newsman asked how he looked, 
gcts a ch<Jnl'l' at tilt' world title, if you considl'l' and a gnarled old Stillman's trainer snarled, "The th<Jt a chance. But for a kid whose first lull<thy was bag fouled out." 
a siren and a homh and slept undnground till he 'On the Amt:rican frontier, the only lime a guy 
was fiVl' years old, you can't think ht·'s going to be hit you ABOVE the belt was when you were on 
scared hy something that doesn't outwt·igh him by your knees. Scott (and Max Schmeling) got the at ll·asl 1.000 pounds and have wings. 

Tom Ciaccio (118 pound class) accounted for ND's only win against Purdue. 

·'-~·································1111111111111111111111111111111111 
if:~ 
f
t.­
·-.~....... I
-.:::::-J' 

~(\~; -~ I
" -\ 
., ~'' 


·;; i~IRISH EYE
·.~· , I .· 
By Mike Pavlin, sports editor 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIII_!IIIIIIIIIIII11111111111.11l111111111111 
Offense must have their day 
Well 1 assume you all saw it on TV. Texas who is supposed to run well and who is supposed to pass poorly didn't and won anyw~y. Which makes awful hard to make judgements on the upcommg Cotton Bowl. 
The invaders from South Bend will try their luck against the No. I 
team in the country on Jan.! in a game which may draw the 
biggest TV audience of the whole day. Texas won the right to ~Ia~ 
by beating Arkansas 15-14 on Saturday, Dec.6. The _Longhorn~ d1d It 
with a great fourth down pass and an interception, negatmg an 
inspired defensive performance by Arkansas. 
Notre Dame's job on New Year's day will be the same as the 
Razorbacks' last Saturday-stop the run. Texas utilizes the 
Wishbone-T to devastating effect wht:n given a chance. The 
Longhorn backs are all tough runners, including quarterback J_ames 
Street. His passing credentials may be open to debate, but he directs 
the offense well. And he has an excellent line in front of him. Texas' 
main difficulty seems to come on 3rd and Xsituations. They'd rather 
be looking at 3rd and 2. The first play from scrimmage in every set 
of downs should be the crucial one. Give the Longhorns a 2nd and 4 
and you can forget about getting a punt. 
To make Texas pass, that is the big problem. Given that Street 
threw a great pass in the fourth quarter, he still remains a so-s? 
passer. Hdping him become better is split end Cotton Speyrer who IS 
a legitamately fine receiver. . 
It won't be the first time the Irish have faced the optiOn-type 
offense. Duffy Daughterly from Michigan State came into this 
season's game with the Wishbone-T offense. But faced with the ND 
four linebacker defense, he dumped it in favor of a more 
conventional offense.Duffy did, however, put in the Option 
whenever tht: Spartans came in scoring range and the Irish weren't 
very successful in stopping it. . 
1 think N D can assume that Texas will stick to the same basic 
stuff rather than pull out somt:thing special. With this in mind, the 
Irish can plan to concentrate on the Longhorns' running game. They 
can be stopped, Arkansas proved that. And when thay are s~opped, 
they can really have nowhere to go. Either Clarence Elhs, or a 
double-team on Speyrer should shut-out the passing threat. And the 
Irish certainly have ithe personnel on defense to do the job on the 
Wishbone-T. 
In my opinion, the game will revolve around dthc ND 
offense-Texas defense struggle. It was the defense which kept the 
Longhorns close and gave them the chance to win. Notre Dame's 
offense has had days this year when it too trembled at a 3rd and 8, 
namely against Purdue. Yet the Irish have shown that they possess a 
versitilc offense. If Dewey Poskon recovers from his shoulder woes, 
ND will have as fine a split end-tight end combination as can be 
needed. The Irish ground game is very solid and deep. Joe 
Theismann is certainly a better than average passer. 
I feel that the Irish defense can take care of itself. In order to be a' 
Tt:xas, the offense must have an exceptional day. 

