

:!ol. IV, No. 37 ~
~~~~~~------------------------~S~e~~~m~~~th~e~N~o~~~e~D~a~m~e~an~d~S~a~in~t~A1~.~a~~~s~C~o~/~k~~~e~(~(~Jm~m~u~n~iry~----------------~W~E~D_N_E_s_o_A_Y~,NOVEMBER 5, 1969 
~nate completes work on budget 
by Steve Hoffman The Senate, meeting as a Speaking for the Observer, Society which were carried over Speaking in opposition to 
After surviving initial Senate-of-the-whole, granted Publisher Don Holliday and fromlastweek'ssession. these proposals, SBP Phil indecision concerning correct formal approval to all but two of Editor Guy DeSapio appealed Shortly after the meeting was McKenna and Stay Senator John parliamentary procedure, the the previous budget the committee's recommenda-convened,amotionwasmadeto Zimmerman argued that Student Senate, last night, recommendations of the tion that the newspaper receive refer consideration of this indecisiveness of the Senate on finalized the student government committee-as-a-whole. only $9000. budget to the Human Affairs this question would recreate the budget. Apart from controversy Reversals of Senate opinion Their arguments, coupled Committee. sandbox image of last year. involving budgeting for the were focused on increased with the endorsement of Senators Thrasher, Hunter, McKenna felt that since other Afro-American Society, business budgetary allocations to the Student Body Vice-President and Guiffrida claimed that, since budgets were not requested to was conducted rapidly and Observer and to the FredDedrick,citedtheneedfor hasty decisions involving this be referred to a special concisely. Contemporary Arts Festival. a daily paper to provide "explosive issue" would be committee, the Afro-American 
necessary communication for detrimental to the community, budget should not be awarded the entire campus. In addition, an opportunity for the question this privilege. He struck out at they reiterated previous tobestudiedindepthisvital. "guilt feelings," and explanations that the Observer is Hunter contended that the "intimidations," and said that if an expanding newspaper, and to Afro-American budget cannot be the motion was passed, it would cut back on its funding would be considered in the same vein as be a direct slap at the Finance to invite a reversal of this budgets of other campus groups Committee's efforts. improvement. can. Stating that the issue was Zimmerman and McKenna 
The Senators were sufficiently not simply a monetary question, concluded that the Senate must i m pressed with these Hunter raised philosophical be mature enough to cope with contentions, and with the questions of whether or not the the issue and any racist admission that the Observer is blacks deserved the money. implications it might entail. striving to become self-sufficient Reinforcing Hunter's ideas, However, the motion as next year, to agree to the paper's Tom Thrasher said that if action proposed by the Human Affairs original request of $12,000. is passed quickly, the Senate will Committee was passed by a vote 
AJso receiving additional do a disservice to itself and to of27-19. a 1 1 0 t m e n t s w a s t he the blacks. He emphasized that It was at this juncture in the Contemporary Arts Festival. the Senate would not be dodging evening that parliamentary Emphasizing the bleak future of its responsibility in referring the procedure was contested, and the Festival without a more matter to the Committee, and Robert's Rules of Order played generous budget, CAF that the Committee, whose itsrole. proponents succeeded in voting primary function is to Hunter first denied d 0 w n t h e c 0 m mitt e e investigate racism on campus, McKenna's suggestion that all recommendation of $2000. would thoroughly research the other budgets be referred to 
Stay Senator Tom Thrasher's issue. (continued on page J) further recommendation that the Finance Committee's original proposal of no funds at 
Mixed campus reaction 
all met with equal disapproval. Rick Libowitz then moved the allocation of $3000, and this 
to Nixon war speech 
motion was clearly passed. The greatest area of by Bill Carter controversy during l:he meeting had said little new and didn't centered on the budgetary The reaction to President believe the speech really changed requests of the Afro-American Nixon's speech last night on the anyone's mind, but he supported Vietnam war was expectedly Nixon's aim in the speech. "I mixed among the more don't think he could have said politically active members of the anything else. A pull-ou! now


Draft resisters probed 
Notre Dame community. From would be political suicide and the comments received from setting up a definite time table
by Paul Gallagher private interview with one of the or wha~ they had in min.d in both students and faculty who would mean suicide for theThe South Bend office of the men involved in the ceremony. attemptmg to set up the pnvate have been closely involved with negotiations. I think the bestFederal Bureau of Investigation FBi officials confirmed that interview. 
the Vietnam issue it was clear thing he said was that the end of(FBI) has begun looking into the an investigation is underway. Contact~d by the FBI was that the polarization of opinion U.S. involvement might not comeOctober 15 draft card tearing However, they refused to answer Peter S~Ith, a soft-spok.en 
on the war was affected very from the negotiations, but fromceremony which took place on any questions about the state of math~matlcs profess~r .at Samt little by Nixon's address. The something else like this Viet­the Notre Dame campus as part the investigation or to speculate Marys College who JOmed ~ne one opinion shared by almost all namization plan. 
of a Moratorium Day Mass. as to whether legal action would Notre Da.me professor ~nd five of those interviewed was that "His appeal for unity wasNews '. the investigation was be initiated against those persons stu~ents m the. Moraton~m day the speech had essentially most likely an attempt to calmreleased to the OBSERVER late being investigated. action .. Accordmg to Sm~th, the nothing new to say. some portions of the populationyesterday afternoon in the wake They refused further to make FBI fust contacte~ hi~ by Student Body President Phil but I really don't believe it willof the discovery that the FBI any comment as to how their phone on Mon~ay mght. !hey 
McKenna didn't find very much 'be very effective. It willhad taken steps to obtain a investigations normally proceed wanted me to give them a Signed 
statement as to why I tore up in the speech to react to. "It's probably be about as ineffective hard to comment on a speech
my draft card", he explained. as the moratorium was in 
that said nothing. I believe it was influencing him."
New Yor" re -elects lindsay 
"And they also wanted me to 
all merely an attempt to appease
The demonstration of Nixon's Stokes, first Negro to be elected Student Senator Tom
sign a waver of my 
some people, especially the
coattail pulling power on behalf mayor of a major city, was in a Thrasher also backed Nixon's
constitutional rights to remain 
dissenters. But I don't believe he 
of two GOP gubernatorial photo finish contest with his motives in making tire address.
silent." 
accomplished this at all. I know
candidates overshadowed several white Republican opponent, "I think it was the most clear,
In Smith's view, the FBI was 
he didn't change my opinion and
dozen tight city mayorality races Ralph T. Perk, in Cleveland. forthright, sincere laying of all
probably attempting to r,et him 
I don't think he changed many
in such big cities as New York, Stokes, a Democrat, trailed the cards on the table that the
a statement of his

to sign own others. There were probably a
Cleveland, Detriot, Pittsburgh County Auditor Perk by 44 American people have heard so
because to date he had merely 
couple of million people around
and Louisville, Ky. votes but the 24 precincts to be far. I believe his analysis of how
signed a statement prepared 
this country who wanted to
In New York, incumbent counted were in black areas difficult the situation is was a
jointly by the seven persons 
march on Washington as soon as
John V. Lindsay, repudiated by where Stokes was assured a huge good one, even though it's sure
involved in the resistance action. 
he finished talking last night."
his own Republican party in the majority. 
"I deduce," said Professor 
Chris Wolfe agreed that Nixon (continued on page 8)primaries, spurted to victory The figures were Perk 
Smith, "that they wanted the 
over Democrat Mario A. 115,752, Stokes 115,708. 

. ·~~,.

interview for use in court." 
Procaccino and Republican John Stokes gained more than 6,000 
At first Smith agreed to talk 
J. Marchi. votes in the last fifty precincts 
to the <!gent and suggested that 
With 2,326 of the city's 5,293 counted, all from heavily Negro meet his on
they at home cledion districts reporting, wards. 
Tuesday morning. The father of Lindsay had 409,903 votes as an The atmosphere at Stokes' 
three felt that this might prove
lndcpcndant and the Liheral he adquarters remained calm, an opportunity speak to a
to 

party candidate. Democrat however, as aides said the 
man who might not have been 
Mario A. Procaccino had nation's first elected major city 
exposed to anti-military views 
297,521 and Republican Negro mayor had received the 
hefore and thus an opportunity
Conservative John J. Marchi had 20 per cent of the white vote he 
to change someone. 173,692. Voting was heavy. needed to win. 
However, later in the eveningNegro candidates tested black As in his 1967 election Professor Smith called his lawyer 



(continued on page 8) (continued from page 2) Dr. Bernard Norling Chris Wolfe 


WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1969PAGE 2 
Goerner retracts proposals 

Chris Wolfe 
by Paul Gallagher 

which Sheedy agreed t<• delay said Sheedy wanted to use such In an open letter to Fr. decision on the matter, but can­clout to produce "the appear­
Thank you, Adolf 

Charles Sheedy, Chairman of the didly pointed out that a residen­ance of monolithic support for a 
Experimental College Subcom­mittee of the Curriculum Revi­sion Committee (CRC), Profess­or Edward Goerner of the Notre Dame Political Science Depart­ment withdrew his St. Thomas Moore College proposal outlined last May. Prof. Goerner told the Committee that they need not hold up ratifying the plan they had in mind on his account. 
According to Goerner's seven page letter, the action comes as a · result of talks the CAP director had with Fr. Sheedy in reference to the Thomas Moore plan in 


One Dav Service NO EXTRA CHARGE Dry Cleaning Shirt Laundry 
With each $1.50 of dry cleaning you receive a coupon worth 25 cents at McDonald's! 
410 N. Michigan Street 
xt t" McD I 's 

McDonald's 

Hamburgers ® 
The way you like 'em best! 
••• 100% BEEF 
... GROUND FRESH 
... PREPARED WITH CARE ... HOT OFF THE GRILL 
••. ON TOASTED BUN 
•.. UM-M-M-M GOOD! 
Come in any time. The service is fast -our prices are right! 
McDonald's~ 
• ~r kind of place. ~·· 
OMcDonald't Corp. 11i181 
South Bend-Mishawaka-Elkhart 



L------------~T_ickets on Sale at S.M£. Dining Hall 
tial college of the kind Goerner had in mind was just not going to be considered. 
What Goerner had proposed last Spring was a five year co-ed experimental program that would have faculty members and students living together, sharing 
philosophical  lives  of  wonder  
and  questioning  in  Socratic  
fashion.  

The experimental college, to consist of approximately 200 students and 30 faculty mem­bers, was proposed as an alter­native to present hall living where students are "largely cut off from any rounded human contact with older scholars whose life of wonder and study he might have an opportunity to share, to test, and to finanally adopt in whole, or in part, or to reject." 
The Experimental College Sub commit tee, tagging the Goerner proposal impractical, drew up an initial recommenda­tion, yet to be submitted to the CRC, which proposed instead a residential-students only sopho­more year program. This pro­posed sophomore year could be followed by seminars in the jun­ior and senior years emphasizing "a process methodology rather subject matter orientation", co­vering "broad interdepartmental areas of learning", and being "as different as possible from ordi­nary college approaches." 
Goerner expressed immediate dissatisfaction with the Com­mittee's work calling it "not a serious answer to the problems we posed." He further charged in his letter to Fr. Sheedy that the University is turning from the old habit of indoctrinating students with religion, barely understood, to indoctrinating them "in the primacy of method, process, and media." 
Goerner suggested that what is needed is a "questioning of one of the central dogmas of civilization, the absolute pri­macy of action over contempla­tion. He went on to criticize Fr. Sheedy for attempting to win him over to the subcommittee's diluted experiment because of what Sheedy termed his "moral clout" with the community. He 
ELVIN JONES 
was Coltrane's "main man". 





SADIE HAWKINS DANCE 
9 till 1 a.m.
November 7 

Indiana Club Music by the "Magnificent Seven" 
project devoted to the indoctrin­ation of students in the current orthodoxy of the scientific es­tablishment." 
A proper understanding of the spirit of study essential to the Thomas Moore College, said Goerner, would make it clear . that one ought not "to attach members of a University to one scheme after another by the mere force of our persons or our positions"-by use of moral clout. 
The Thomas Moore College proposal was also intended to question the validity of the "professionalization" of the aca­demic life, said the government professor. It supposes, "that to be a scholar-student-thinker might be a whole way of life, a 
vocation." According to Goerner, in committing themsel­ves to a que.stioning of way of lif.::, students, new and old, would put in jeopardy "the com­fortable illusion, dear to the careerist, that everyone hides .. .in some dark corner of his heart, that one is a more or less import­ant part of an intellectual enter­prise that is going to dominate the future of thought..leaves one with an awareness of ·one's ignor­
ance... " 
"That is a great risk for those 
who might form such a com­
munity. Some would be tempted 
to abandon the disciplined study 
and some to abandon the radical 
questioning," he continued. 
"And perhaps the community 
would break up over that. But if 
one failed at such a task one 
would, at least, not have failed 
at.something base." 
Continuing in the letter, he 
told the former Liberal Arts 
dean that he had dismissed sug­
gestions that he summon politi­
cal support for his proposal on 
the grounds that the experiment 
was intended to begin a change 
in the character of undergrad­
uate education which would in 
time be university-wide, and 
thus would demand the support 
of the university at large. 
"What I proposed last spring to everyone was an experiment not just for those who would join St. Thomas Moore in a full and formal way," he pointed out, "but an experiment for the whole university... Reflection made it clear to me what my heart already said; even if a sweeping victory could be had by such a means (politicking), it would be hollow." 
COM£ TO THE 
It is a rathet well established platitude that events bad in themselves can often bring about all sorts of good effects, and it seems to me that Adolf Hitler inadvertently benefited the world in some ways during his brief sojourn here. 
To get around to demonstrating that, it's necessary to start by observing the way that most Notre Dame students approach statements. Largely as a result of the impact of modern science on the belief in man's ability to "know" things, statements are divided into two sorts: statements of fact and statements of value-judgements. Theoretically, facts are those propositions capable of being established _fonclusively by the methods of natural science. Value-judgements on the other hand are always subjective, and are not susceptible to being investigated scientifically and established as "objectively" true. 
For instance: the event of an apple falling to the ground is capable of being established as the result of a natural law which is called gravity. Even if the idea of gravity is relativised and taken to be only a useful hypothesis, few will deny that they can be "sure" that, when they have seen an apple fall, the apple has fallen. Somehow the physical-ness of it all makes it objective fact. 
On the other hand, it is not objectively true that it is wrong to kill your mother when she's past sixty on the grounds that she is an "unproductive" member of society. Undoubtedly there are many value-systems where the action would be wrong-most, probably. 
But it is a never-ending source of surprise to me that when faced with the question "is •it wrong to kill your mother for those reasons?" most students reply "yes, for me it would be wrong". The importance of that "for me" is that it implies that for other people it depends on their values. Now that example may be a littre strong. It would be more obvious if the question were "is premarital sex wrong?" 
The problem for most people who hold this set of beliefs is that it leads to very undesirable conclusions sometimes, if one feels any need to be consistent. It's relatively safe and easy to say that premarital sex, or jaywalking, or cheating (or most things, for that matter) are a matter of subjective values. The problem arises when it is simply not so safe and easy to say it. 
. And here entereth Adolf. Now Adolf was not an average man, and did not do average things. It is generally acceptable to say that when he did something, it was done with some magnitude. As a matter of fact, World War II and the "final solution" to the Jewish problem are of such frightening magnitude that people find it jus.tifiably 
difficult to say "well, for me it would be wrong, but for Mr. Hitler it depends on his own values". (Interesting statistic: count one Jewish corpse per minute dead by Hitle1 for each minute of a forty-hour work week, and it would take about fifty years to count them all. That is magnitude). 
Some people will stick by their subjectivity though. One SMC 
damsel remarked the other day that a certain teacher was great 
because "he helped her to be herself", meaning that she could set up 
her own system of values and follow them her way. Wondering 
whether she cared about the objective truth of her values ~ JSked 
"what if you (and your values) are a Hitler?", and she remarked with 
a complacent smile "then, I guess I'm a Hitler". 
Fortunately though, most people's resolution to be un-certain about anything not physical breaks down at some point. There is a law "written on the hearts of all men", and at some point the soul' will cry out against the evil it KNOWS to be evil. Modern man is good at covering over that law though, stifling it within himself, and it takes an extraordinary personage to smash through that massive wall of resolute wishy-washiness. For doing that, we can thank Adolf. 



Draft resisters probe 
(continued from page 1) 
and James Douglass of the Notre Dame Institute for the Study and Practice of Non-violence. Both men recommended that he not go through with thi! scheduled interview, but contact the FBI and call the whole thing off. 
Acting on the recommenda­tions of his lawyer and his colleague, Smith decided to refuse the private interview. Being unable to reach the agent, he waited until the agent with whom he spoke and another FBI man came to his home early Tuesday morning. At that time, he informed the agents of his decision. They thanked him and left. 
Asked why he was picked out for a special private conference with the FBI as opposed to other members of the Notre Dame Seven, Smith suggested that many of the others involvf:d already have files with the FBI established. He also expected that some of the others would be contacted in the near future. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 

------------------------, 
WEDNESDAY,NOVEMBER5,~1~96~9~----------------~--------~~~~~~~Cl~~~==~~~--------------------------------------------~P~A~G~E~3 
Vote allocations to Observer, CAF, others 
(continued from paf[e 1) . . 
committee on the grounds that the committee-as-a-whole cannot reconsider issues already debated. Then Ed McCartin completely ref~ted the already passed motion of referring the Afro-A me ric an budget to 
Program to aid business -industry 
The University of Notre Dame today announced the inaugura­tion of an Industrial Associates Program for service to business and industry. 
The Program, designed to fur­ther mutually beneficial intel­lectual contacts between the uni­versity and business-industry, will be directed by Dr. Frederick 
D. Rossini, vice president for research and sponsored programs at Notre Dame. 
Rossini said that eight firms have accepted initial invitations to join the program -Sherwin-Williams Co., Cleveland Ohio; Ford Motor Co. and General Motors Corp., Detroit, Mich.; Eli Lilly and Co., Indianapolis, Ind.; Charles Pfizer and Co. and W. R. 
Grace and Col, both of New .­
York, N.Y.; PPG Industries Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pa. and Miles Laboratories, Elkhart, Ind. 
Services provided for member companies include the follow­ing: 
-Automatic distribution of copies of the University's "Annual Report on Research and Other Scholarly Works," with multiple copies, as desired, of irtdividual reports and publi­cations. 
Participation in special two-day seminars on selected subjects of interest and impor­tance to member companies. The first of these seminars will be held November 12-13 at the Center for Continuing Education on the topic "Pollution -Time for Action." 
-Privilege of services from the University's Computing Cen­ter. 
-Scheduled visits to the Uni-


Therefore, the Chair ruled the motion out of order, prompting Hunter to motion the Senate "rise and report"; that is, that 
committee, citing a passage that the committee-as-a-whole cannot perform such a function. 
versity by representatives of member companies for discus­sions with and lectures by select­ed individual faculty members. 
-Scheduled visits to member companies by selected individual faculty members for lectures and discussions. 
-Advice on consultants in areas of interest to member com­panies. 
-Additional advice and infor­mation of recruitment of person­nel. 
-Advice on sponsored re­search programs of interest to member companies. 
-Regular invitations to mem­ber companies for lectures and special intellectual events spon­
_so_r_e_d_b_:_y_t_h_e_U_n_i_v_er_s_J·t.::..y_.____l_ 
they consider the question as a Senate-of-the-whole. In this capacity they could refer the budget to committee. The motion was passed and the J;.ud~et was finally referred to the Human Affairs Committee, 
Rossini said that a scheduled series of invitations to selected business and industrial com­panies, each involving a personal visit by him, will be followed until membership in the program reaches a goal of about 40 com­panies. Member companies pay an annual fee, which is intended to cover out-of-pocket Univer­sity expenses and provide a mo­dest annual fund to support faculty research and scholarly 

ELVIN JONES 
is the world's greatest drum­mer. 

under stipulation that the Co!'lmittee return its evaluation of the Afro-American Society's budget next Tuesday for Senate cons~deration .. The entire appraisal of. th~e Issue must be completed_ withm two weeks. 
In  other,  more  sedate  and  
uncontrived  action  the  
Senate-as-a-whole  accepted  the  

f o I I owing budget recommendations of the committee-as-a-whole: WSND-$750; Sophomore Literary Festival-$1000; Research and Development Commission-$800; Off-Campus Commission-$150; Judicial Coordinator-$25; NSA-$50; Community Relations Commission-$} 00; Student ~enate-$1.000; Course-Teacher Eva I u a .t 1 on-$1000; . Fr.ee lJ niversl ty-$1 000; Mmonty Student Recruitment branch of the Human Affairs Com mission-$4000; Students Against Racism-$1000;Student Union-$22,400; HPC-$500; Student Government Administration-$12,400; International Students Organization-$1500; Amateur 
Radio Club-$300. 

ation Meeting for 

NOV.15 MARCH ON WASHINGTON 

Wed~ Nov. 5 7:30PM 26S"Nieuwland Science Hall 
Ride lists Rider lists Legal Aid What to bring Places to crash Where to go 

______B_u_s_I_n:..fo________________ 
1 







TARGE 
FOR YOUR CAREER IN EDP SALES 
____________....L 

"Opportunity" is no empty promise at DatagraphiX. Because we are an ac­knowledged leader in America's fast­growing Electronic Data Processing industry-and expanding steadily-op­portunity here is an everyday fact of life! 
We make sophisticated electronic/ optical systems to record, retrieve and display the data generated by comput­ers and data-processing systems. Our customers-largely commercial-in­clude banks, insurance companies, transportation firms and public utilities. The list is growing rapidly. 
This continuing expansion has created opportunities for EDP Sales Representatives. These are problem solvers in the most challenging sense. Their job is to break information bottle­necks and help our customers realize full value from their computers. They work out of a nationwide network of major-city sales offices. 
For these important positions, we are looking for outstanding Bachelors and Masters graduates from any of these fields ... 
Computer Sciences 
Mathematics 
Business Administration 
Economics 
Marketing 
Electrical Engineering 
Thorough backgrounding in our equipment and marketing philosophy is provided at the DatagraphiX Training Center on San Diego's famous Mission Bay. 
Arrange your interview with Data­graphiX through the Business School Placement Office. 
ON-CAMPUS NOVEMBER 10 
Or write for further information to Mr. Dennis R. Johnson, Professional Placement, Department LC-2 

P. 0. Box 2449 San Diego, California 92112 An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
Stromberg DatagraphiX, Inc. 0 A General Uynamlcs Subsidiary 
COI"YIIIIQHT 1911111, T, 6 CO. 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. 
CHICAGO 
PHONE: 944-7500•ZIP: 60611 
'THB OBSERfJER. WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1969
PAGE 4 


THE OBSER.VER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
OONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Publisher GAETANO DE SAPIO, Editor 
.FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3 19 

The Obseroer staff is apparently as divided on the issue of Vietnam as the nation. For that reason in order to do justice to the feelings of the editorial board I feel it necessary to prin~ the following t~o opinions on the President's speech yesterday. The first one was written by myself m concurrence wtth other members of the board. The second is the opinion ofother members of the staff -ed. 
Vote of confidence ... 
We support enthusiastically the President of the United States in his quest for peace in 
Vietnam. We feel that his policy as outlined in his speech on Monday is the only rational 
way out of the war. 

We have stated before that it is meaningless now to argue about how we got into the 
war, whether we should have, or the way we have conducted it. 
Many mistakes have been made in Vietnam --very many. Because they were 
American mistakes they were amplified a thousand fold with national and international 
repercussions. 

But our acknowledged motive for being there --the free determination of the 
Vietnamese people --can not be impugned. Our mistakes have brought those motives 
into questions and in the eyes of some, even many Americans, vindicated the position of 
the North Vietnamese and the Viet Con g. 
We feel that the President once again articulated the motive and the objective for US presence in Vietnam -peace and the right of self-determination for the Vietnamese people. One can question the eloquence or the poise with which it was presented and call it the same old rhetoic -but that does not make it any less valid. 
We seek peace. We have made significant gestures to reach a negotiated settlement. We 
are not for escalating the conflict. We are for removing our troops from Vietnam. The 
question remains --at what rate? 
We can not not support "precipitous withdrawal." It would be sheer stupidity 

'I 
i •\ ~, ~ -~ ; I' 
\,'·
·,\ l',:. v: 

I 


SILENT MINORITY 
l 
I 

! ~~· ~.' 
I 
I 
I
I 
I 
I1. 


L,'"~ 
militarily and would make a mockery of our entire commitment to the freedom of the •••••••••••••••••••••••• 
Vietnamese people. The hazards of immediate withdrawal were outlined frankly by the president. They are in the best interests of no one --for they would produce more death and suffering than the war has already. 
The only acceptable way out of the war is through a phased withdrawal. The President claims he has a time table. We believe him. We feel that he is in the best position to evaluate the rate of the withdrawal. The president also states that he wishes to keep the time table secret so as to not exclude the possibility of a negotiated settlement in the meantime or an North Vietnamese effort at deescalation. Either occurrence would enable the president to remove troops at a faster rate. We believe that his request for secrecy is a sound one. 
The President says too that he needs the support of the American people so that the North Vietnamese will not be encouraged to stall in their efforts for peace in the hope that America will pick up and leave. We believe that he has a valid point. When the American commitment to peace was not publically announced we could see the value of protest and demonstrations to force the government to enunciate its policy. We can not see today how the American government could be making a greater effort toward peace or toward the withdrawal of American troops. 
We believe President Nixon is pursuing the only course that an American president could pursue. Honestly we believe, Americans must admit that if any other man were in the President's place he would follow the same course. 
... vote of no confidence 
President Nixon's Monday night speech proved to be only a glossy summation of the 
Administration's remarks on Vietnam since last January, and a plea for a vote of 
confidence from the "great, silent majority" of Americans. 
The President realized that the prime cause of the deep division in our nation over the Vietnam War is the loss of confidence in the government's policy. He also realized that the only way to bridge this growing chasm was to be perfectly frank with the American people, and he pledged his speech would be that bridge. 
We can not give President Nixon the vote of confidence he asked for. We do not believe that Nixon proposed any new initiatives other than those that have cost us the lives of forty-thousand or our young men. Furthermore, we believe that contrary to Mr. Nixon's belief. the Paris Peace talks are impervious to any United States action except our unconditional withdrawal. 
We applaud the President's forthright statement that the peace talks had not progressed beyond "agreement of the shape of the bargaining table." This fact leads to the inescapable conclusion that Hanoi intends to patiently wait for the day when American troops are no longer on Vietnamese soil. 
President Nixon has indicated an unwillingness to consider and accept certain possible outcomes to the War. We believe this attitude is not conducive to find a "just peace." 
We ask the President for effective leadership in conducting the Vietnam War. We urge 
him to explicitly state the conditions of our disengagement from the War and to state the. 
possible contingencies this disengagement is based upon. 
His speech merely attempted to pacify the entire spectrum of thought on Vietnam. This action of attempting to satisfy both sides is clearly unacceptable. It was obvious that President Nixon did not foresee the virtual end of the war in the near future. He appears to be a loser trying to look like a winner. 
L>avid Breen, Business Manager Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. News Editor: Glenn Corso Copy Editor: Oavid Stautfer Alloc:iete Editors: Cliff Wintrode, 14frn Conway, Laura Haferd, Jeanne ~eney. ltrudenr.P. wear 
Layout Editor: Mary Beth Crimmins 

Mike Kelly 
One to many mornings 
Those of us who still note the signs on the walls and l uk to se.e: who is running the tables in the dining hall, have realized that activity for the second Vietnam Moratorium has been progre~sing nicely. Unlike the first Moratorium, on October 15, which was aimed mainly at reaching the people in whiche\ ._r «rea of the. country each demonstration was to be, the November Moratorium is 
to  be  more  vocal  (dare  we  say  strident?)  and  ·aimed  at  the  
administration  in  W.ashington.  The  first Moratorium  was  one  day  
long.  The  November  Moratorium  will  be  two  days  long,  thf:  

December Moratorium three· days and so forth until either America is out of Vietnam or until February of 1971 when the Moratorium will be 29 days and the month only 28 days long. 
The last Moratorium was a fascinating and depn:'·.;ing occurance. Beneath the grim humor afforded by the sight of teenie-boppers from South Bend wearing scores of movement buttons (25 cents each at the Community bookstand), tight-c_lipped ,heology majors wearing black headbands, and wide-eyed coed •. ·mdering around murmuring "outta sight!", there was a sense of uncontrolled fate that overwhelmed this observer. The day was played against a fixed backdrop and was merely part of a script written long ago. Aside from a handful of students "·ho realized just what the Moratorium was (summed up best, perhaps, Pat Clinton when he said that he ju,st 
couldn't see being angry, as that would be the ~arne old thing all over again, but rather it was a time for mourning), was a powerful, meaningful thing. I don't mean to disparage the people involved in the Moratorium. I don't mean to disparage the Moratorium. I sim­ply wish to soften the blow of disillusionment that will surely soon 
come_ More than anything else, the Moratorium Day struc~ r. e as a gigantic production of Sophocles' Antigone. For those who may not recall the play, it is the story of a youn.g girl, Antigone, who felt that she must violate the laws of the state in order to remain faithful to what she saw to be the Ia ws of the gods and her own consdence. It is also the story of a king, Creon, who felt that he must preserve the good of the state as he saw it, even if it meant the death of Antigone.. Cr•eon was not the villain of the play, nor was Antigone wholly the hc.rome. Both were doing what they had to do. So, too, with the nation's intellectual ~.:onfusion over Vietnam. The students and other advocates of immediate withdrilwal have got to-do what they are doing. They must speak out and they must demonstrate and they must continue their efforts to bring about immediate peace in Vietnam, because from their perspective it is right. The President and his d_efenders have got to do what they are doijg. The President cannot look three years in advance or even a decade in advance, but he must attempt the near impossible task of projecting a generation or more ahead of his time. He has to maintain an historical perspective, which might easily lead him to conclusions different than those advocates of immediate peace. Be he right or wrong, he is doing what he must do. As the President said in his speech Monday night, "I have a plan for peace... if it does succeed, what ever I could say won't matter." 
That thought from the man wh9, each week must write letters to the families of servicemen killed in Vietnam. 
As Bob Dylan said, " You are right from your side and I am right from mine. We're both just one too many mornings and a thousand miles behind." 
F'noto Editor: Phil Bosco 
Features Editor: Tom Ehrbar Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin 
Night editor: Dave Stauffer 
Layout design: Marty Tieber 
Headlines: Phil Schatz, Rick Smith 
Layout: Dan Shaw, Mark Stoltz, 
Mar"vn Becker 

The opinions in the editorials~ news analyses, and columns of The Observer are solely those of the authors and editors of The Observer· and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administrations, faculty or student bodie5. 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1969 THE OBSERfiEit 
PAGE 5 
•


Here IS the world's greatest drummer 
The Elvin Jones Trio, led by drummer who has been rated the world's premier drummer in the Downbeat International Critics' Poll for the past seven years, will perform this evening at 8:00 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
Members of the Trio are Joe Farrell, Wilbur Little, and the leader, Jones. The group was formed in mid-1967, and although Little was replaced from time to time by other bassists, he rejoiner\ the group in the spring of this year. The group thrives mainly on the dynamic efforts of Jones, but reedman Farrell, late of the Thad Jones-Jel Lewis "Jazz Orchestra", has the feel for the fiery tastes of his leader, and builds upon the phrast:s laid down by Jones. Little is unobtrusive yet effectual at all times. His return to the group makes it one of the tightest combos playing today. The Trio copped the "Best Combo" award in Downheat's "Talent DEserving of Wider Recognition" calt:gory, and their latest release, "The Ultimate Elvin Jones", is a gt:m. 
Elvin's philosophy is quite simple. "Every time I go out to play," he told Downbeat recently, "I pretend that it's the last time I'll ever play, and I'd better mah it good." He's happy when performing, and the listener can detect this happiness in his playing. 
The Trio's sax and flute man, Joe Farrell, is just 30 years old, yet he has established himself as a true master of not only tenor and soprano sax, but the flute as well. Do wnheat voted him "Best Tenor" and "Best Flutt: Player" in the "Wider Recognition" department in 1968 and I969, respectively. Farrell started with Maynard Ferguson's big band in the early 1960's, and most recently performed in New York with the Jazz Orchestra of Thad Jones (Elvin's brother) and Mel Lewis. He has been reared in the John Coltrane tradition, and his longer solos are often confused as those of Trane. 
Tickets for the concert will be sold only at the door. The box office opens at 
7:00 p.m. and prices are $2 for general admission, $1 for students. The concert is being sponsored by the Michiana Friends of Jazz and the Collegiate Jazz Festival. 

The rambling expedition of Dillard and Clark 
D iII a rd-Clark and their rollicking Expedition roll on. They evolve both in terms of people and music, keeping their basic original quartet (Gene, Doug, Bernie Leadon and Dave Jackson), and they now have their second album out on A & M. 
The Expedition, whose personnel changes occasionally as all expeditions must, also consists of Donna Washburn, 
Jon Corneal and Byron Berline.  
With  the  turnover  in  personnel,  one  
might  ask  whether  the  Expedition  was  
really  organized,  whether  it  was  

re-organized, whether it was constantly organized or whether it was constantly disorganized. Probably, any answer might apply at any given time. Efforts to figure out whether D & C are elctric or acoustic have essentially been given up, because if you pay any attention, you notice that they flow from one to the other as they see fil, just as the rivers they love to float down in canoes !low from the highlands to the lowlands. The only difference is that the rivers haven't figured how to flow back again, while D & C have. And it's not an unnatural virtue. 
bluegrass-folk group, the Dillards, from whom he played banjo. Gene came west in different ways from Kansas. He played with the New Christy Minstrels ("I played the 12-string riff in 'Green Green' ") for about a year, running around the country like some kind of star. 
They still hadn't met yet, but the time was nearing. Gene got off the Christy's bandwagon to hang-out for awhile. One place he hung out was the Troubadour, in 
L.A. and there he met Jim (Roger) McGuinn and David Crosby. Together they began the Byrds, picking up Michael Clarke and Chris Hillman soon after. It was about a half-year before the Byrds became famous and brought long-haired rock back home where it belonged. But it was not just rock .... it had roots. The roots were in each of the group's members, the roots were in Gene Clark, the young man from Kansas country. 
In his frustrating two-year stay with the Byrds, Gene exhibited his talents as a songwriter. Nearly everybody's favorite Byrd original, 'Til Feel a Whole Lot Better," is really a Gene Clark original. 

So now, you add them up and they are a Magnificent Seven: c;ene Clark on guitar, mouth harp and vocals; Doug Dillard on banjo, guitar and vocals; Bernie Leadon on guitar and vo<.:als; David Ja<.:kson on bass and vocals; Donna Washburn on vocals and percussion; Jon Corneal on drums and Byron Berline on fiddle. 
He also collaborated with McGuinn on "You Showed Me," which was to become a giant for the Turtles four years later. But with the Byrds, Gene had problems. There are always problems in an ultra-creative group, and besides, the Byrds, true to their name, had to fly to be the mobile ro<.:k-and-roll stars they were expected to be. Gene could only doing. But fate and those natural roots were not going to allow the Dillards and Byrds to remain apart forever. Between tours, in LA, they got together to jam and mess around, and the seeds of things to come were planted. 
In 1966, Gene left the Byrds for awhile. He didn't like flying and wanted to stay home for a rest. And, just at that 
strange point in time, the Byrds and the Dillards went on a tour together, along with the then unknown Buffalo Springfield. The freaks and the folkies had to take a little of each others' medicines then, and it probably did them all some good. 
The next move was Clark's. After some 
vascillation and nostalgia pangs, he finally 
dicided once and for all not to be a Byrd 
and began to prepare his own album. His 
producer was Larry Marks, and his 
back-up people included, on vocals, the 
country-singing Gsosdin Brothers, and on 
insturments, several Byrds, Glen 
Campbell and Douglas Dillard. The album 
was relaeased in early 1967 as Gene Clark 
with the Gosdin Brothers. It received 
some critical notice, but that was about 
all. 

Now, things remained' in a state of flux. Doug stayed with the Dillards and Gene played with a back-up group in the LA area when he could get gigs, and the 
world kept going round. 

Gene had been writing songs, and had rejoined the Byrds for some shows and recording in late 1967. But, the plane hang-up hit again, but it was a short-lived reunion. 
After several years of being in the group named after his family, Doug became restless. In the Spring of 1968, he left the Dillards and started playing with the Byrds. the Byrds had gone ,country' by then, and Doug fit in well, going on a short European tour with them. He then came home and in the summer, started hanging out with Gene again. 
Doug and Gene were unemployed but happy, sitting around and picking. A group called Hearts and Flowers broke up, and from it came two guys who know Doug and Gene from hanging around; Bernie Leadon and David Jackson. They got together., jam for awhile, and come up with a organization impressive enough to win them a recording contract with A & M by early autumn. And all of a su~lden, they were called Dillard and Clark. They put out an album which alluded to their "fantastic expedition" and thereby gave them a sort of group name and they became "important." 
The !lack went out about how the kept 
their  acoustic roots intact. Then former  
Byrd  drummer  Mike  Clarke  came  back  
from  Hawaii  and  needed  a  gig.  And  

Dillard and Clark made their live debut electrified, with Mike beating the trap set i~ the back. 
The shifting resumed soon, though, as Mike got into another Byrd-like transfer. He became permanent drummer for the F I Yin g Burrito Brothers, the ex-Byrd-dominated group previously 
lacking a percussionist. And he Expedition unplugged. 
Mandolin player Don Beck wandered by one day, after having been a victim of a break-up of Stone Country some months before. The again-acoustic Expedition welcomed him, and ',ecame a quintet. 
At about the same time, Donna Washburn saw the group perform and !lipped. She then joined. No arguments allowed. And they were a sextet with a 
female voice. They played acoustic, and sang six-part harmonies and crowded around the microphones on stage. 
The next addition was, oddly enough, a drummer. He was Jon Corneal, who had formerly played with Burrito Gram Parsons in the International Submarine Band and with the Byrds. He hd also been an early Burrito, but that didn't work out, and he now moved with the Expedition. 
Doug and Gene took everyone back toward the studio but on the way ran across another old friend; Byron Berline, fresh from the service. Byron, another product of Kansas, had played with the Dillartis on an early LP for them. And he was nearly the world champion fiddle player. The Expedition said "why not?" and brought him to their sessions for the second album. He enjoyed it so much that he became the seventh member. 
And that, believe it or not, is how it stands, with Doug, Bernie and Byron trading hot licks on their instruments, an · ,their harmonies as sweet as they co ' (, ~ne writes his songs, they pull oe ·>me of the old favorites, and drive to tfieir gigs. And they gig everywhere from festivals in San Luis Obispo, California to ballrooms in Chicago with Jefferson Airplane. 
Doug and Gene have careers whi<.:h have criss-crossed each other often in  take so much of jet airplane travel. In the meantime, Doug and the rest of  ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Tom Ehrbar has won a Pulitzer and moved to New York.  
recent years, and the final unity that has occurred has been a natural.  the Dillards wen: moving around, making records and building up a large and loyal  Immediately after this shocking news was released The Observer allocation was raised to $12,000.  to  the senate last night,  
Doug <.:arne to the West Coast several years ~go from Missouri with the famed  following of folkies who thumbed their noses at what the likes of the Byrds were  A new feature editor is now desperately needed.  

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1969
THE O&ri.RfiM
PAGE 6 

Letters to the Editor= 
The folio wing is in response to a letter by Joe Wemhoff which appeared in yesterday's Observer. 
Dear"Joe, 
In response to your letter in The Observer on Tuesday, November 4, 1969, I would like to at least offer the Student Government's point of view. I will try to answer all of your points honestly, and in the order which you mentioned them. 
First, the method of budget cutting which you mentioned is totally unrealistic for two reasons. It would be impossible to cut a given percentage from each organization submitting a budget, thereby reducing the total requests to a total we feel is more realistic. First, if a system like this were initiated, any club on campus could submit a budget and expect to get some set percentage of it so budget requests would obviously be inflated a great deal. This 

move would take all disgressionary powers away from the committee -a computer could easily scale down each request. Submitting a budget would become a matter of trying to be the highest bidder, and thereby get the largest amount. In short, it would become a joke. Second, you are ignoring the basic difference between variable and fixed costs. Approximately $6,500 of this year's Administrative budget is devoted to secretarial salaries. Obviously it would be impossible to delete or deduct a given percentage in this case. However, as in the case of the Academic Commission, it is entirely possible to delete specific speakers, smce these are entirely variable expenses. Some amount of rational judgement must be exercised in the consideration of each budget. This may be termed "Playing God", or (more realistically) it may be termed 
using rational review as a basis for final decisions. 
I can not accept your argument that the Senate is a tyranical body. I have no documentary proof that the figures you quoted on Senate 
//-6 ~ 

membership are correct, however, let us assume that they are. Did this ratio result from the fact that the Arts & Letters 
candidates  were  voted in  
specifically  because  of  their  
background,  or  from  the  fact  

that the members of the other colleges did not want to bother running for the Senate? I think the answer is obvious. If the members of the other colleges were truly interested, in the Senate, the membership ratio could be entirely different. 
I disagree with your statement that the Senate does not try to match the sources and uses of funds. It is true that the Business College received no funds this year but then neither did any of the other colleges, per se. The activities which the money was allocated to were those which we felt would best serve the entire campus. Although it may 
be true that having speakers such as Charles Evers, Hubert Humphrey, or Jesse Jackson here on campus does not directly benefit only the Business College, I think it is obvious that the whole campus can benefit from what these men have to say. Incidentally, two tentative speakers for the ·year are Robert Ling (of LTV) and Milton Friedman, whose lectures would probably cover current business topics. 
I must also attempt to correct your errors in terms of the figures you quoted. The Finance Committee's recommendation to the Senate was to operate at a 
deficit  of  approximately  
$ l 3,000  this  year,  thereby  
paying  off  approximately  
$37,000  in  past  debts,  and  

leaving nearly $59,000 for this year's activities. It appears that the Senate feels the committee's suggestion was overly restrictive, and plans to operate at a budget of approximately $61,000, leaving a budgeted deficit of about $15,000. It is true that this would leave next year's Government with an operatmg budget of about $80,000, but we feel that we must strongly reverse the current trehd 'toward constantly s.r;wwballing deficits, ana it is our opinion tha! this is 
the most realistic way to get the job done. 
Also, although it is true that most of the members of the committee are not well trained 
\ in budgeting techniques, we are probably more trained than any other given student group on campus. All of the members of the Finance Committee have been closely aligned to various student organizations for their four years at Notre Dame. (The seven student members are all seniors. The other two members are Fr. McCarragher, and Prof. 
want to move up fast 
in aerospace/electronics? 
John Houck of the Management Department of the Business College). Although it is true that the Senate has final approval of all budgets, it is obvious from this year's budget hearings that the Senate relies heavily on the suggestions of the Committee. Also, I do not see that having 
Hughesiswhere 
the action is. ~-;tliCit:~£5-l 
two Student Union officials (not
L------------------J
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY 
one) on the committee is a conflict of interest. The Union is in charge of a huge portion of the activities which go on from year to year here at Notre Dame, and as a result is is only logical that they should have a voice in 
basic policy decisions. In conclusion, I take offenseYou can go forward, go fast, go far ... at the customer at operational sites. Re­training devices, plan field training pro­at your implied allegation of ourHughes Field Service&Support Division. sponsibilities include: providing main­grams and prepare courses for use at 
''fiduciary malfeasance." If you are seeking a stimulating assign­
tenance, operational and technical customer bases. Requires a Bachelor's 
Although you may disagree ment where you can get in on the assistance; formal and informal on-the­degree in E.E., or Physics. Experi­
whole-heartedly with many of ground floor of the rapidly-expanding job training; logistic assistance and the ence in preparing and presenting 
the Committee and Senate aerospace/ electronics field, capitalize 
investigation and solution of equipment technical electronics material in the 
decisions, we do have logical, immediately on your background and 
problems experienced in the field. Re­classroom and laboratory is highly 
rational reasons for each one of training, and progress quickly toward quires a Bachelor's degree in E.E. desirable but not mandatory, 
them. To suggest that we are dishonest, incompetent, oror Physics. Experience with militaryyour career goals-Hughes Field Serv­
ENGINEERING WRITING 
unreliable simply because youfire control, radar or communicationsice & Support Division in Southern Specialists in printed communications disagree with us, is to lowersystems is desirable but not mandatory. 
California will welcome your inquiry. 
convert complex engineering data into 
yourself to a brand of
Some current fields of interest include: MAINTAINABILITY ENGINEERING simple, accurate, illustrated support 
"mud-slinging" which I hoped I During design phase, positions involve publications, including technical man­
. 
would never be the target of, analysis of the feasibility of built-in, self­uals, orders, brochures, sales proposals, 
DESIGN ENGINEERING 
and which I will never be a partyOpenings exist for Electronic and Me­
test features, application of automatic etc. Fields of interest include: digital/ 
to.

chanical Design Engineers in the devel­Sincerely,checkout equipment, standardization of ana log computers, display opment of Trainers & Simulators and in John B. Coughlin,circuitry design, minimization of ad­systems, digital and the design of checkout and test equip­Student Body Treasurer justment and alignment requirementsment for large missile and aerospace and packaging of the product. Duringsystems. These responsible positions 
Lauds autopsy 

system development, assignments willrequire interest and/ or experience in Editor:involve production of a complete set ofsuch design areas as: analog circuits, I have just finished reading aintegrated logistics support doc­digital logic, switch/ relay logic, electro­letter by Chris Wolfe comment­uments for use as planningmechanical packaging, infrared test­ing on a column by Tim Mac­guides. Requires B.S. degree ing, inertial guidance and Command/ Carry. I am spiritually moved by
in E. E. or Physics. voice satellite com­
Control systems. 

the Word of the "Living God" asmunications systems ...
Responsibilities wi II it has been portrayed in Catholic and many others. Requires ainclude all phases doctrine and explained by Mr.

B.S. degree in E.E. or Physics.
of design and 

Wolfe. In fact, I am convinced development 
that no mortition of religious
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
faith could ever have compiled a final fabrication November 11 
from concept to better autopsy on the "Church of Rome."

and evaluation. M.S. For additional information on the ca­or Bachelor's degree is reer opportunities available at Hughes 
Sincerely, 

Aircraft Company-and to arrange a 
Terry Goodwin required in E.E., M.E. or Physics. Hughes Technical Training prepares 

personal interview with our Technical
both civilian and military personnel to 
Staff representatives please contact
FIELD ENGINEERING 
ELVIN JONES 
efficiently operate and maintain ad­
your College Placement Office or write: 
Mr. R. J. Waldron, Hughes Aircraft 
Company, P.O. Box 90515, Los An­
The Field Engineer's job ranges from vanced electronic systems. Technical 
has been named "Best Drum­
complete contractor maintenance of Instructors conduct training classes at 
mer" in Down Beat's Inter­
geles, Calif. 90009.

electronic systems to technical assist­Hughes California sites and work di­
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EN PLOVER ·M8F 
national Jazz critics poll for
U.S. CITIZENSHIP REQUIRED

ance. His primary function is to assist rectly with customers to evolve special 
the last seven years. 

.. 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1969 THE OBSERfiER. 
PAGE 7 
Big weekend marked by vandalism 

by Tom Bornholdt 
In an interview Monday • Arthur Pears, Director of Secur­ity, described the last weekend as being one of the worst this year in regards to vandalism and thefts. He also claimed that an unusually large number of racial incidents occurred. 
At II: IS Saturday evening two white males and two white females were confronted by a group of Negroes, five men and thr~te women. The blacks de­manded money, but the whites had none. A struggle resulted in which a knife was used by the 
blacks, and  a  white. was  cut  on  
the  head,  but  not  seriously  
enough  to  require  hospitaliza­ 

tion. The other white male was a Notre Dame student but he was not injured. 
A candy machine was stroyed in another fracas 


from a landing. 
In Stanford Hall, several win­dows and fixtures throughout tht: dorm were found broken j Saturday 
A fire extinguisher was found I in lh~ middle of the second floor of Badin Hall on Saturday. Its 
cabinet had been totally de­
stroyed. 
A fire hose was found unra­velled on the north end of the third floor of Howard llall. Sev­eral windows were found broken in Howard, apparently from stones thrown from outside. 
Someone broke into the Com­puter Center during the weekend and did considerable mischief. Janilors' pushcarts were shoved into a road where they inter­fered with traffic. The door was knocked off its hinges in a men's lavatory, and a clock was stolen from a room. Pears thinks that! 
the vandal entered through an open freight door. The damage was discovered on Tuesday mor­ning. • 
O'Shaughnessy Hall suffered the destruction of several win­dows and some light fixtures wen: found lying intact on the floor Friday. 
A campus phone was damaged in Badin llall; the receiver had been stolen. 
Last Friday Albert Wimmer reported the right window, an­tenna, and turn signals of his automobile as being maliciously destroyed in the WN DU parking lot. David Heise of Flanner re­ported the antenna broken on his car. Windows were reported smashed on a motor vehicle near the Athletic and Convocation Center in tht: C-1 parking lot. Jamt:s Rowan rt:ported that his 
ELVIN JONES 
won Down Beat's most recent 
Reader's poll as "/Jest Drum­
mer. " 

car top was slasht:d during the her purse in the Athletic and Smokey Robinson Concert. Convocation Center. 
Director Pears also described A theft of mail was reported the number of thefts as being by a student in St. Edward's worse than normal. Hall. 
John Kenny of Grace Tower Frank Vattoretti reported the reported his guitar stolen. He theft of a battery from his car claims its value to be about on Oct. 31 while )»arked in $150 Tim Brace of Dillon re-02. 

· 

WEDNESDAY NOV.S 9 P.M. EST CBS-TV 
.:!~
~~\ 
I' • . 
... 
I 
It's new ... it's Sinatra all the way. 
BUDWEISER® • KING OF BEERS® • ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS NEWARK • LOS ANGELES • TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS • JACKSONSVILLE 
... 
-
PAGE 8 7118 O&rERf1M WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1969 
Stokes and Perk in Cleveland photo finish 
(continued from page 1) 
vic tory over another white Republican, Seth Taft, Stokes eked out a narrow victory after trailing through most of the counting. 
The Detriot race involved two Democrats-Richard H. Austin, a Negro, and .his white contender, 
Roman S. Gribbs-in another close contest. 
Wayne County Sheriff Gribbs took a substantial lead over County Auditor Austin last night in the race to be mayor of the nation's fifth largest city. 
The handsome, 43 year old attorney swept predominantly white sections of the city and his 56 year old black opponent rolled up substantial majorities in inner city precincts. 
With 42.75 per cent of the vote counted, results from 4 75 of l, Ill showed 

.... 
Gribbs  l 09,877,  Austin 90,132  Pittsburgh  and  Louisville.  The  Sawyer.  poor third.  
and  write-in  candidate  Mary  Pittsburgh  winner  was  Peter J.  Negro candidates failed to run  In  Dayton, Ohio, incumbent  
Flaherty  who  easily  trounced  strong in  smaller city  races.  In  P. Davis Hall rolled up a 2 to 1  
Republican John K. Tabor.  Hartford, Conn.,  Ann  Uccello,  margin  over Lawrence Nelson, a  
F or m e r  De m ocr at i c  the  only  woman  mayor  of  a  Negro foundry worker.  
Congressman  Frank  Burke  sizable city,  won  reelection  by  But  in  the  little  town  of  
regained  City  Hall  from  the  506 votes  over  her Democratic  Glasgow, Ky., Luska J. Twyman  
Republicans  in  Louisville  by  opponent, and  Wilbur Smith, a  became the first Negro mayor to  
beating  the  GOP's  John  P.  Negro and NAACP official, ran a  be elected in the state.  

Reaction varies on Nixon speech 

(continued from page 1) 
not to satisfy everyone. The hard-core people on both sides probably will be disappointed with his plan but that's because they've stopped thinking about the issue to any solutions 
Beck 809. beyond those they have formed The Democrats found some themselves. off year election consolation by "But when Nixon spoke of 
the mayorships of the silent majority I think he made a good point. The majority of the people in this country oppose the war the way Nixon opposes the war. I agree completely with his point of phased withdrawal being the only workable plan right now, and I think he made the right emphasis on the impossibility of the other alternatives. 
Ed Roickle also criticized Nixon for failing to recognize the moral question of the war. "There is never any mention of the imperialistic role our government has been playing in Vietnam. The government insists that the negotiations be conducted on an equal basis and that there should be concessions on each side. But we have no 



Association 

Friday
-
Starting Tomorrow Presented by STUDENT UNION 
SOCIAL COMMISSION 
Where every piz.z:a's a cheap thrill 
Lafayette R<tdio
1738 Lincoln Highway East 
Electronics 
-2307 East Edison -South Bend 
731 South Michigan 1400 N ee-Elkhart 
South Bend. lncii:m:o 
PIZZA 11UT® 
right to make any such demand, 
not when we were never even 
asked to intervene in the first 
place, because there is no formal 
record of any such request. 
~'The whole speech was 
nothing but a reiteration of the 
previous position, merely an 
attempt to dodge the issue. I 
don't think his appeal convinced 
anyone." 

Tom Murphy was the only 
student questioned who believed 
the address contained something 
significantly new. "I think the 
speech clearly showed Nixon's 
policy represents a complete 
•reversal from the last administration. There is no more escalation, the emphasis now is on de-escalation. I know it might have sounded better if he had presented a definite timetable but that would have been impossible. I think his appeal for unity might have changed a few minds, but only among those over 25 or so." 
Among the faculty reaction, Prof. Bernard Norling of the History Dept. found no surprises in Nixon's talk. He agreed with most that the speech held no 
OBSERVER Staff Meeting For all personnel 
Friday at 4:30 


Freshmen, Sophomores or Juniors 
Interes~ed in wprking to save 
the Contemporary Art Festival 
Come to an important meeting 
Thurs. 7:30PM 123 Nleuwfand 
new ideas but defended its purpose. "I think it was good because it put all of the policies into perspective and probably did much to reassure those people who are sitting on the fence as far as this issue is concerned. 
"I doubt if he could have come up with any better policy now unless it be to find some 11th hour courage to go out and win the war. I am skeptical about the idea or Vietnamization. I don't believe the Army in the South could fight well enough on their own to hold off the Communists." 
In perhaps the strongesl expression of concern over the outcome of Nixon's address Prof. Charles McCarthy of the Non-violence Dept. had grave reservations about the speech's immediate effect on the war debate. McCarthy said he watched the speech with 25 members of the faculty and the overall reaction was a feeling "much stronger than disappointment. We all realized that the whole thing is going to get more desperate now. It now seems that just as the far left is i'nvolved in calculated polarization of the nation, Nixon has decided to follow the course as indicated by Agnew's recommendation of polarization in view of authentic values. 
Hockey team to scrimmage 
Coach Lefty Smith will unveil 




