SMC students to have VOICe on comm1ss1on 
St. Mary's College students beginning in September will hold voting positions in all college committees concerned with acadmeic matters as a result of a proposal approved Friday by tenured faculty members anti accepted by college President Rt. Rev. Msgr. John J. McGrath. 
The proposal approved by the faculty members places two students on the Academic Affairs Council anti on each of its five committees. 
The student representatives will hold full voting privileges on the Academic Affairs Council as well as committees on academic standards, curriculum, library, teacher education and admissions and scholarships. 
A convocation of the student body will bt~ held at l P.M. today to explain the workings of the committees anti the process for a p pI y ing for posit ions. Representatives will be chosen by the heculive Cabinet of Student (;overnmenl subject to the approval of the Student 
Assembly. Applications will be taken for positions all this week. 
"The reason for student participation in the government of the academic area is communication of student views and student run projects.," Pam Carey, SMC Academic Commissioner said yesterday. 
Carey said that she hoped that there will be an increased effort in the area of pass-fail with the expansion of the pass-fail system to courses taken at Notre Dame and '!.!so the scheduling of study days before exams. 
The proposal for student participation brought before the faculty was a result of recommendations by an Ad Hoc committee of students and faculty at Saint Mary's which sought full student participation in academic affairs of the college. Sally Davis, last year's Academic Commissioner, first introduced the proposal to the faculty assembly last fall. 

There's something about a greased pig that seems to excite Notre Dame men. As a matter of fact, ND men seem to like chasing pigs-greased or otherwise. 

l OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
VOL. Ill, No. 133 MONDAY, MAY 12, 1969 
Of P & C conf. charges 
THE WORLD TODAY 

McNamara, Kahn convicted 
By Jim Raley any penalty due to the "We find them each guilty on possibility of unlawful seizure. one of the second two charges
Saturday morning, the
V let Cong offer new peace plan The rationale for the Board's due to the fact that the letter of
Campus Judicial Board 
the law had been violated.
was PARIS (lJI'I) Saigon's chid" negotiator to the Vietnam peace Chairman David Kelly after However, this violation, we feel, 
convicted David Kahn and Marty decision, which released by 
McNamara on two of three 
conference said yesterday he has orders to open "serious charges filed hy Dean of written permission was obtained was provoked by a possible discussions" with the Communists if lhl'Y indicate they are ready to unlawful seizure, such that their
Students, Rev. James Riehle. from both defendants as in gel down to serious bargaining. accordance with the Judicial actions were somewhat justified
C.S.C. in regard to their actions Ambassador l'ham Dang Lam, ha<.:k from two weeks of Code, is as follows: to which we can, therefore, not
in the 1-"riday incidents of the consultations in Saigon, said "privall' or secret conversations" still see levying a penalty."
Censorship and Pornography "We, the Campus Judicial 
offered till' best hope, 111 Saigon's view. of getting the Communists Board, find Martin P. McNamara
Conferen<.:e. In regard to the Judicial to put their L'ards on the table. 
Kahn and McNamara were and David J. Kahn both guilty on Board's decision, Kahn stated,"I lwve gl'neral ins! rue! ions to l'ng<Jgc in serious discussion with 
both found guilty for two of three counts concerning "It is a credit to the Judicialthe other sidt• if tlu:y want I hem." he told newsmen al Orly Airport. 
unauthorized use of Campus the abor_tive Pornography and Board, that they understand the"But to he ahil' to l'Xplort• L'Vt'n more deeply tht• possibilities of 
facilities, Kahn. of assault and 
Censorship Conference. We find rationale of civil disobedienceagreement," hL· s;nd, "it seems to me th;Jt the very flexible formula 
battery, and McNamara was them both guilty on the first and that they are able toof l'residl~nl ThL·iu's proposals of privalt: or secret conversations is charged with contributing to a count concerning the illegal use transcend the letter of the law inthe most appropriate way to pt:rmil the other side to make more public tlisturhanCl'. 
of 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. favor of academic freedom.
predse lhin~s they cannot hL' precise ahoul" at the formal weekly 
On the first count, the 
However, we do not view this Furthermore, they were entirelynegotiating sessions in Paris. 
Judicial Board recommended 
violation as serious and, in fact, correct in their adjudicationthat they in the future receive the rule has generally been which has indicated thatMansfield says to gov't: "hands off'' approval before using the unenforced in the past. students were not to be blamed 
University facilities. On the Furthermore, since no one was for the pbulic disorder whichWASIIlN<;n>N (lJI'I) Senate Democratic leader Mike Mansfield other count of assault and 
denied the use of that room at occurred in conjunction with thesaid yesterday I he federal government should "keep its hands off" battery, the Board did not levy that time, we see no harm done. 
suppressed conference."
the nation's troubled university campuses. The former professor said <.:ollege authorities have "the duty and ahllily to prevent violent disorder without any action hy the government. 
An Tostal concludes with chase 
"The hest thing the federal government can do is to keep its hands off," Mansfield said in an interview. "The best thing the students By Dave Fromm soaked on the process. But as the spectators desbelieved the and faculty <.:an do is to face up to their own problems." fact that it could go down the
Despite protests from the Badin president Dave Ryan put
Although he rejected the get tough approach of Atty. Gen. John winner's throat so fast.
humane society, 1969's An it, "They're all wet anyway."
N. Mithcell and othl'f officials of the Nixon administration Notre Dame had a tough time
Tostal concluded with a pig Pat Dowd, who worked on a 
Mansfield said university adn1inistrators should not tolt:rat~ overcoming the St. Mary's squad
chase. Dillon hall nailed four cow two minutes for nil milk,
"violt:ncl' and license" from a few student rebels. in a well-matched touch football
pigs in record time to win the marvelled at the boy from a 
"I differentiate he! ween the mini minority which seems to seek a game. The ND team was hit
event with SMC coming in a Maryland farm, who capitalizedconfrontation and the great majority of students that are more often with a I 5 yard penalty for
close second. The girls were on the cow milking contest. 
interested in ne~otialion," he said. illegal use of the hands. SMC
persuaded to participate in the The pie eating event was received only one
chase by being thrown into the taken "hands down." The pie
U.S. present missile system weak 
pen. vanished so quickly taht most of penalty-backfield in motion. 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-The Pentagon's research chief estimated 
"And when they were in there G d named adm•·ss•·ons head
yesterday for the first time publicly that perhaps only one tenth of you couldn't tell who was ran e the U.S. strategic missile force would survive a Soviet nuclear attack chasing whom," remarked one in 1975. ND student. Freshman Carole 
Dr. Peter P. Grande, director The possibility of such a loss, said Dr. John S. Foster Jr., is the McRedmond, dressed entirely in of the office of institutional reason why Presidrnt Nixon ordered a start on an Antiballistic white, produced the best tackle studies at the University of Missile ABM system to protect U.S. offensive missile installations. of the day. She missed the pig Notre Dame, has been named Foster, director of defense research and engineering, said in an but hit the mud. director of admissions at the interview that possibly "fewer than 100" U.S. lnterwntinental Cavanaugh won the bed race University. The appointment is Ballistic Missiles would survive a Soviet attack in 1975. but Badin had the most unusual 
effectiveJuly I. This country's force of land based ICBM's consists of l ,000 bed-a maid's cart with a five Grande succeeds Brother Minutemen and 54 Titan Missiles. foot hoard, two chairs and two Raphael Wilson, C.S.C., who has II is estirnute was based on an intelligencr assessment that the pillows. The carl gained so much headed Notre Dame's admissions Soviet Union has the capability to build a force of 500 SS9 ICBM's speed that it was surfing on its program since September, 1965. hy 1975, each with three warheads. making a total of l ,500 rear wheels. The girl riding the Brother Raphael, an asso<.:iate warheads. Russia now has more than 200 SS9's and has cart almost got killed. professor of microbiology, will experimented with triple warheads. SMC came back from last take a year's sabbatical leave at Foster said: "If in 1975 the Soviets have 500 SS<.J's and three year's loss to win the tug of war, the UniVl'rsity of Ulm, West 
Dr. Peter Grande 

warheads on each, they will have l ,500 warheads that could be pulling ten ND men into the Germany, before returning to directed against the I,000 Minutemen, anti I believe that there is a mud. The girls also made the teaching and research staff professor at the University of reasonable calculation that would indicate that fewer than 100 themselves the new water 
of Notre Dame's Lohund Ulm and director of its clinical Minutemen would survive. brigade champions and got Laboratory. lie will be a visiting hadcriology research program. 


THE OBSERVER. MONDAY, MAY 12, 1969
PAGE 2 

···--·------------------·------------------------------·-· 
Applications are now 


Professor Michelson resigns

being accepted for 
Professor Peter Michelson has 
NSA delegates 
resigned his position in the English Department, effective at the end of the year, in order to edit a literary magazine at the
Send to Box 522 
University of Wyoming. Michelson said, "I am leaving Notre Dame, first, because the
By 6:00P.M. 

repressive and censorious 
Tuesday, May 13 

attitude of the university1--------------1administration, especially this 
past academic year, has seriously 
compromised the possibility for free humanistic inquiry at Notre Dame, and secondly, because I feel that I can more freely 
explore the interaction of art and society in the position I have been offered at the University of Wyoming." 
In his Jetter of resignation, sent to Father Walsh, Michelson 


Attention! 
said, "In the course of the past year administrative responses to campus dissent have defined a 
Sophomore 

Class 
• 

Order Your Class Rings Now 
• 

o Place Your Order a Deposit 
•

IS Required 
Hours: 1 :30 to 4:30 P.M. Monday through Friday
I 
~ ~ ~ 
• 

I ~ f THE 
f f 
~ 

f NOTRE
f I 
~ 
f DAME
r 


~ BOOKSTORE 
• 

on-the-campus 
repressive and authoritarian possibility of free humanistic educational environment at inquiry at Notre Dame has been Notre Dame. Such policy as is seriously compromised. For prescribed in Father Hesburgh's there can be no real freedom of letters must create--has in fact mind where dissent is already created-an atmosphere suppressed; and that is the of suspicion, hostility, and consequence of Father harrassment of whatever falls Hesburgh's machinations to outside its arbitrary, and often effect a conformity of will in the whimsical, bounds. Thus, the Notre Dame community. 
Professor Peter Michelson 
HPC d•·scusses 1·dea of hall fellow 
H PC C hair man Rich Heidecker asked each hall president last night to submit to him the name of a faculty member his hall might want for a hall fellow next year. The hall president, academic commission, or council will make the final decision on its fellow, but the HPC is co-ordinatin~ the program. 
We have your special corsage here at · 
WYGANTS for that very special girl! 
phone 232-3354 327 LWW FTD Florist please order early 
••Rx for discontented youth'' 
"Professor Joseph J. Schwab has written a tough-minded, analytic, and prescriptive book that is more humane and more generous than any apologia of student protest not in print. There is not a university president, or member of a board of trustees, or senior faculty member hiding behind his diminishing grants, or junior faculty member fearing both freedom and liberation, who can afford not to read it and to study it. Perhaps, in place of a few of the academic hegirasplanned for this coming summer, it might be more profitable, and far less costly, if a few beleaguered (and some of the as yet untouched) institutions were to build student--faculty seminars around the text...Professor Schwab has produced the definitive handbook for creative academic 
revolution." 

-FRANK G. JENNINGS, Saturday Review 
COLLEGE CURRICULUM & 
Both Morrissey and Farley had fellows last year but the program will be expanded in the fall to include every hall on campus. Heidecker said that the purpose of the hall fellow will be to "bridge the student-faculty gap" by becoming acquainted with hall life. 
Tom Duffy, HPC secretary, felt that the hall fellows program will eventually lead to a faculty office move from the library to the halls. 
"The move would give the halls a more civilized touch," he said. 
Gre Murray, a promoter of a leadership conference to be held on campus a week before classes resume in the fall, asked that the hall presidents make an attempt to attend the conference. He said that a five dollar fee would cover the cost of a textbook and other miscellaneous items. Any other expenses will be underwritten by either NO or SMC. 
Next week the HPC will vote on a constitutional amendment proposed by Jim Smith of St. Ed's giving the council the power to express an official opinion on issues pertaining to hall life . 
Ship Your Baggage By Air Freight -It's Cheaper 
Bring Your Baggage To Stepan Center 
Empty Packing Cartons For Sale 
Hand Trucks For Moving Your Trunk 
See Your Room Flyers For Details 
Seflled By United·--North Central Alleghany Airlines 

PIZZA HUT 
:::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=~~::::::::::::::::::::: 
SIT IN 


or CARRY OUT 
Monday & Tuesday S-9 p.m. 
$1.00 any kind small $1.50 any kind large 

=== 
SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  
PIZZA HUT  PIZZA HUT  
No. 1  No.2  
1738 L.W.E.  2307 East Edison Rd.  
Phone  Phone  
288--6060  233-3827  




STUDENT PROTEST!--------.---------1 
Joseph J. Schwab  Foreigncarservice  Driving Range 
and Parts ...  
At your co/lege bookstore now $4.95  For All Makes and Models ...  
UNIVERSITY OF CHICAG0 PRESS·  IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE.  p ar  3 G If co  ourse  

~----------------------J--,~~~5~7~5~0~E~ll-is_A_v~e-n~u-e,~C~h=ic~a~g~o,=l~ll=in~o~is~6~06~3=7~--------~---------------------1~injatureGolfC:ourse 
CLASS of 1970 PRESENTS 



NEW ORLEANS FOOTBALL HOLIDAY 
1969 SENIOR TRIP 
*OCT. 23-26 *BOURBON STREET *FRENCH QUARTER *TULAND vs. N.D. 
in the SUGAR BOWL 

TICKET SALES: THURSDAY, MAY 15 in the Dining Utt,Us. 
NOTf.': There will be no Yllles in the /llU. 
*COMPLETE TRANSPORTATION FURNISHED 
*EASY ACCESS TO 
NEW ORLEANS NIGHT-LIFE 
TOTAL PRICE: $135 
DEPOSIT: SIS 
OPEN -DAY & NIGHT (weather permitting) 
PLAYLAND GOLF CENTER 
1715 Lincoln Way East South Bend, Ind. Phone 288-0033 

The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Oame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 

MONDAY, MAY 12, 1969 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 
-~-·---------~--------· 
Irish hurlers spin twin shut-out victories 



OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS APARTMENTS -..._.,_; 
~TOTAL ELECTRIC LIVING A new concept In student living 
THESE APARTMENT BUILDINGS ARE LOCATED JUST SOUTH OF THE CAMPUS ON NOTRE DAME AVENUE. EACH APARTMENT IS DESIGNED FOR FOUR STUDENTS AND IS COMPLETELY MODERN IN EVERY DE­TAIL 
SOME OUTSTANDING FEATURE-'S: -Private Patios and Balconies -Air Conditioning --Kitchen with Range, Refrigerator and Garbage Disposals. -Cooking Utensils, Dishes, Silverware, etc. -Wall to Wall Carpeting -Party Bar --Soundproof Construction -Prewired forT. V., Phone -Ughted/Paved Parking Area --Completely Furnished 
SUMMER APARTMENTS AVAILABLE NOW 
NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS 
~or Rentallnfortnatlon-Cal • 271-1521 

by Terry Shields 
Observer sportswriter 

Nick Furiong continued his fine shutout pitching as he led the Irish to a 3-0 victory over Ohio University last Friday at Cartier Fil'ld. In so doing he extended his scoreless inning string to 23 innings and evened his record at 2-2. This fine performance also lifted the Irish over .500 for the first time this 
Eleven receive Hering Awards 
The following were recipients of the annual Hering Awards, given for outstanding work during spring football practice: 
Defensive line: Mike McCoy L i n e b a c k e r : L a r r Y 
Schumacher Definsive back: Chuch Zloch 0 f f e n s i v e b a 'k : J o e 
Theismann 

ATTENTION SENIORS 
COMMONWEALTH CGLLEGE BUILDER COSTS LESS! If you have not turned 22 before Jan. 1, 1969, here is what you would pay for our COLLEGE BUILDER PLAN: 
10,000 Life Paid up at 65 $13.41/mo. 15,0(10 Life Paid up at 65 $19.56/mo. 
Included in that price you have the following benefits: 
Accidental death ..................................................... 3 times face amount Travel death ............................................................ 4 times face amount Loss of one llmb ............................................................... 'lz face amount Loss of two limbs ............................... face amount (waiver of premium) Loss of eyesight ................... , ........ : ..... face amount (waiver of premium) 
Return of all premiums if death occurs in first 20 years of policy 
fo"tt/1 Military Coverage COMPARE before you buy Dcj(•rred Premiums 
contact: KEN EVERETT 
l'l11s other benefits 287-1!891 
season with a 10-'J mark. Furlong gave up seven hits in his nine inning stint. 
The Irish swred in the initial stanza when Rob Voitier drew a walk and went to set:ond on Tom Lux's single. Rich Lucke then walked and Bill Orga drove in the run with a sat:rifice fly. 
The contest remained tight until the seventh inning when 
Offensive line: L<~rry DiNardo Most consistant lineman: 
Mike Oriard Best frosh back: Andy Huff Best Frush offensive lineman: 
Dan Novakov 

Best frosh defensive men: (;reg Marx, Walt J>atulski, Clarence Ellis Bill McCarthy tripled and Joe Keenan walked. l;urlong helped his own cause with an rbi single scoring McCarthy and then Lux's second safety brought home Keenan. 
Furlong kept the Bobcats in check as they never had a runner past second. 
The Saturday game with Ohio was rained out. 
Then on Sunday the Irish upped their record to 11-9 with an impressive victory over Xavier University by a 9-0 count. Ron Schmitz hurled a 4 hit shutout for his fourth victory against one loss. lie recorded 8 strikeouts in 
hat's the point of revolution without general, general copulation? 


peter brooks' MARAT /SADE 
tonight 7:00 and 9:00 tonight Washington Hall 
the process. 

The ND offense showed a lot of punch in this game. Orga continued his torrid hitting attack since entering the starting lineup as he had a 3 for 5 day with 2 rbi's. He is currently 7 for 12 on the season. Another bright 
spot was Dick Licini who hit a 3-run pinch-hit homer in the 5-run Irish seventh. This was only the second appearance for Licini since coming off the injury he sustained in the Texas trip. The Irish hammered out II hits on two Xavier pitchers. Dale Mutryn suffered his first defeat on the season for the visiting Muskies. He was hindered by two costly errors and a pas.~ed ball that permitted a run to score. 
Besides the lethal hitting attack (every starter got on base) the Irish looked solid in the field despite two errors. They performed their twentieth double play of the year. 
It seems that the men of Kline have put things together at long last but it may be just a little late. There are only six scheduled games remaining. The next outing is tomorrow against Valparaiso at Valpo and the next home game is Thursday versus the Detroit Titans. 


PAGE 4 

THE OBSERVER MONDAY, MAY 12, 1969 
--~ 



Rain dampens Blue-Gold scrimmage 
by Mike Pavlin 
Observer Sports editor 
For awhile I thought this job was a thankless one. You spend all night in the office trying to figure out why your headlines don't fit and people call you up asking why the last issue didn't contain the results of the Zahm Hall third floor Wall Ball Tour­nament. 
I changed my mind radically last Saturday, though, because as Sports Ed I was entitled to a free seat in the Press Box for the second annual Blue-Gold foot­ball scrimmage. There I sat, eating free hot dogs and drinking free Uncola while outside the rain drenched and the wind chilled a multitude of 5,375 who were exploring the length and depth of meaning of the expres­sion "die-hard". The game itself replaced the nostalgic Old Timer's Game last year. Ara Parseghian had wisely decided that since scores in the contest were ballooning and since Pro teams were becoming worried about injuries their property could suffer, it woulfoi be better to hold an instructional, 
inter-squad scrimmage. 
Last year's opener was exceptionally good, because it unveiled the wizardry of Joe Theismann, who ran and passed the varsity dizzy. Saturday, however, Theissman was on the varsity and he had the Chicago 

Baseball Standings 
AMERICAN-EAST  NATIONAL-EAST  
Won  Lost  Pet.  GB  Won  Lost  Pet.  GB  
BALT.  22  11  .667  CHI.  20  11  .645  
BOST.  19  10  .665  PITT.  16  13  .552  3  
WASH.  16  16  .500  5Y,  xN.Y.  13  16  .448  6  
DET.  13  15  .464  6  PHIL.  12  15  .444  6  
N.Y.  12  19  .160  9  ST. L.  12  18  .400  7Y,  
CLEV.  4  21  .160  14  MONT.  11  17  .393  7Y,  
WEST  WEST  
MINN.  18  9  .667  ATL.  20  9  .689  
OAK.  19  10  .665  L.A.  18  11  .621  2  
CHI.  12  11  . 522  4  S.F .  17  12  .586  3  
K.C.  15  14  .517  4  S.D.  15  18  .455  7  
SEA.  11  17  .393  7Y,  Cinn .  13  16  .448  7  
CAL.  9  17  .346  8Y,  xHOUS.  11  22  .333  11  
xSecond game not included  
Baltimore 5, Kansas City 0  Houston 4-, New York 1-(dh)  
Chicago 7, Cleveland 5  Atlanta 4, Philadelphia 3  
Detroit 3, Minnesota 2  Chicago 8, San Francisco 0  
Oakland 2, New York 0  San Diego 4, St. Louis 2  
Seattle 6, Washington 5  Los Angeles at Pittsburgh, ppd.: Rain  
Boston 7, California 3  Cincinnati at Montreal, ppd.: Rain  

WINNING NUMBER 
*** 305631 *** 
Tom Blaska 
343 Badin 
Come in the Bookstore with 
your stub and collect your 
Polaroid Camera any day between 9 and 5. 
••sPECIAL ON ALL HARDBOUND LIBRARY EDITIONS STARTING MAY 12th" 
A Special Sale on All Hardbound Library Editions Will Start May 12th. 
Where: N.D. Hammes Bookstore 
Police Force disguised as a defense behind him; thus the Blue smothered the Gold 41-3. 
If the crowd was unhappy over the weather and the lop­sided score, Ara Parseghian was not. Ara explained that he thought the squad had reached a plateau last week, but that they had become a unit. He put into words what was evident on the field, that the Irish will be a possession-offensive team next year,. with three backs operating most of the time. 
Parscghian had a chance to check out some trouble spots, one of the most noticeable being at back-up quarterback. fresh­man Bill Etter and junior Torn Gores were unable to complete a pass all afternoon. Gores was dropped several times behind the line of scrimmage, while Etter managed only 22 yards in I 0 carries. A good sign, however, was that Etter switched jerseys and drove a reserve-laden Blue Squad to their final touchdown. Parseghian said of Etter, "he stays in the pocket well and he has excellent vision." 
If nothing happens to Joe Theismann, however, it looks like the only way to stop him next year will be for the oppos­ing team to pack a fishing net on defense. Little Joe hung plenty of moves on the Gold defense in becoming the games' leading ground-gainer with 65 yards in I I tries. His passing was only 7-1 7, but several good throws were dropped by receivers. And his two interceptions came when receivers slipped and fell on the muddy turf. 
Seymour and Gladieux an: gone, and it has so far proved difficult to replace them. Jim de Arrieta ran at no. I split end Saturday with freshmen Bill Trapp and Tom Gatewood work­ing for the Gold. Parseghian explained that the progress of Gatewood, of whom much ahd been expected, had been hampered by several injuries he suffered during the spring. Dewey Poskon looked good at tight end, snaring three passes for 58 yards. 
When Ara said that NO will be a con t ro !-offense team, he wasn't exaggerating. Theismann had several hard-charging backs to call on. Freshman sensation Andy Huff lived up to his hill­ing, but Parseghian also had good words for fullback Jeff Zimmerman. Huff and Jeff each scored a touchdown, while Ed Ziegler added three socres. The other Blue TO was produced by 
Jeff Zimmerman showed flashes of his sophomore form on Saturday. After a burst through the line, he is tackled by Mike Zikas (57) with an assist from John Cloherty (41 ). Standing by for the Gold are Rich Thomann (45), Tom Nash (59), and Ed Grenda (86). 


USED CARS 
See: Ed Moran <ND '69) .at John's Auto Sales 
702 Mishawaka Phone: 255-9342 

Corner of Cedar & Mishawaka Ave's. 
ALSO: New Suzuki Rikes 
FREE U. COURSE NEXT FALL, SEND 

"Do your thing" immediate openings in young publishing company for ad space salesmen & women. Work in your city or travel the USA. Salary, commission and car expenses. Call collect 
(312) 726-9326 or send resume to J and .I Publications, Inc., 153 North Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois 60601. 
IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO LEAD A 
Dick Zielong, an improved ball­player this spring, who racked up 24 yards in five carries. 
Beside these, there is Denny Allan, who was bumped out of his starting spot by Huff. Allan played for both sides during the afternoon and managed 52 yards in 8 carries. A pleasant surprise at halfback was former frosh QB Jim Yoder. Moved to halfback just last week ("had two of the longest runs this spring"­Parseghian), Yoder carried for 34 yards and caught two passes. Incidentally, he wore Coley O'Brien's old number, three. 
The main reason for the meager Gold total-offense production was the Blue defense. Mike McCoy joined with three frosh--Greg Marx, WaIt Patulski, and Fred Swendsen--to form a solid front line. Mike Zikas, Pat Mudron, and Bob Jockisch will back them up next year. Any inexperience they have is "cushioned"--as Ara put it-by a veteran linebacker crew. Defensive captain Bob Olson (an offensive captain won't be named until next fall) was out with an unj ury suffered during a light workout the other day. He, Larry Schumacher, Tim Kelly, and Bob Neidert have 
plenty of savvy, and they have Jim Wright (baseball) to help. 
The secondaries gathered in five interceptions Saturday, three by the Gold, Chuck "Slick" Zloch is solid at one corner, but the other two places are still up for grabs. Frosh safety Clarence Elles used his great leaping ability to tip and catch one pass, while John Gasser picked off another. One spectacular spring performer, Ed Ed Guyas, was injured. 
A good sign is the shape of NO's kicking game. Scott Hempel didn't miss in five extra-point attempts. Yoder punted for a 40-yard average, while Mark Brandt got off sev era I fine boots under pressure. John Dampecr, a 
freshman from Kermit, Texas, put the only Gold digits on the board with a 25-yard third quarter field goal. 
Your Name, Next Year'!: Address and a course Description to: RICK LIBOWITZ, 
c/o STUDENT GOVT 









