

THE ·WORLD TODAY 
Stoc"s decline In wa"e of plane loss 
NEW YORK (UPI) -Stocks plunged sharply Wednesday amid Congressional clamor for some form of U.S. retaliation against North Korea for thl'! downing of a U.S. reconnaissance plane. Turnover was moderate. 
Oils and electronics were among the hardest hit issues, with oils holding the top four positions on the most active list. Three were losers. The oil industry faces a possible cut in its depletion allowance. 
The UPI stock market Indicator, measuring all stocks traded, dropped 0.64 per cent on I,5 59 issues crossing the tape. Of these, 


'Faust' nearly cancelled •••
910 declined and 408 advanced. There were 126 new lows and 22 new highs. that McCarragher made, in order Street Journal, and the Dean of
By Glen Corso 
The New York Stock Exchange Index mirrored a loss of 42 cents for the play to be presented. Arts and Letters at St. John's Objections to a Minneapolis
in the average commnn share price. One being that no one but pat­College. Both men commented
Firehouse Theater pr-oduction 
rons would be allowed to attend. favorably on the play.

Fifth girl found slain In Ann Arbor which opened the Contemporary Originally the plan had been for "We assured Fr. McCarragher
ANN ARBOR, MICH. (UPI) -The body of a brown haired Arts Festival last night in the the sale of tickets to non-patrons that there would be nothing girl who had been stabbed and choked with an electric cord ~as Stepan Center nearly forced the a few moments before the start sensational about the presen­found yesterday in a ditch near this university city.She was the fifth play's cancellation. of the show, on a space available tation of the play. Our aim is
After a meeting wtih Student basis.
girl found slain in the area in less than two years. . . 
primarily artistic. The patrons,Dawn Basom a junior high school student at nearby Ypsilanti McKenna stated that Student 
who bought their tickets two who looked mo;e grown-up than her age, was the latest victim in an Government and the players 

months ago, also feel this way,accelerating series of slayings dating back to the summer of 1967. were "happy" to comply with since the dispute about the playAll of the girls' bodies were found east of Ann Arbor, three of McCarragher's requests. 
only came to the surface this them within a radius of a mile or so. Strangulation figured in all the Pat Dowdall said that at first morning," Dowdall declared. slayings though it was not the cause of death. McCar~agher "refused to allow Because of the two minute 
One died in the summer of 1967, and one in the summer of 1968. the performance," because of nude scene in the play, St. Three were killed this spring. the misunderstanding at St. John's administration felt that it Sheriff Douglas llarvey called a meeting of all law enforcement John's College. Dowdall and should be presented on an aca­
agencies in the area to plan a coordinated hunt for the killer or McKenna however cited various demic basis, which it was not. killers. people who had seen the play, Fr. McCarragher was unavailable including a critic on the Wall for comment.
Stronger clgareHe warning asked 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -A U.S. surgeon general urged Congress Wednesday to strengthen warnings printed on cigarette packages to 

Rev. Charles I. McCarragher Whelan informs HPC of
cite the danger of death by cancer. He also asked that the warnings Body President Phil McKenna,
be extended to all cigarette advertising. Vice President for Student Af­
"The warning now required is weak," said Dr. William H. Stewart, fairs Rev. Charles I. McCarragher 

room selection policy

who stopped short of asking for an outright ban on all cigarette advertising on television as proposed by the federal communications permitted the production, en­
titled A Mass for Actors and Rev. Edgar J. Whelan, CSC, Whelen completely disagreedcommisssion. 
Audience On the Passion and Director for the Office os Stu­with the procedures being fol­Stewart testified before the House Commerce Committee, which Birth of Dr. John Faust Accord-dent Residence, discussed room lowed in Breen-Phillips. B-P isis looking into the FCC's announced intention of prohibiting ing to the Spirit of Our Times to selection procedures at a IIPC allowing some of its residents tocigarette commercials on television. 
go on after certain conditions meeting last night in the student pull outsiders
"Caution: Cigarette Smoking May Be Hazardous To Your Health," in as roomates, 
were met. center amphitheatre. He said forcing some of the other pres­is the warning currently required on all cigarette packages, but According to Student Body that the function of his office ent residents to leave the hall.
Stewart said it was inadequate. 

President Phil McKenna, McCar-was to protect the rights of This act violates part 2 of ,. He suggested it be strengthened to say that cigarette smoking "is ragher's feelings were based on students by making sure that Whelan's policy. 
dangerous to health and may cause death from cancer and other the objections voiced by the halls follow just and equitable Whelan told Breen-Phillipsdiseases." 

administration of St. John's room selection procedures. president Marty Kress, "If oneDa Nang hit by mortar aHac" College in Minnesota, when the Fr. WhelaP. made known his student complains, I'll come in play was shown there. Pat three-fold policy regarding the and upset the whole applecart."
SAIGON (UPI) -Communist gunners fired rockets and mortars Dowdall, head of SUAC, also matter. SBP Phil McKenna and Steveinto Da Nang early Thursday in the first barrage on South Vietnam's voiced the same opinion. The (I) Approximately 30% of the' Chardos, co-chairmen of nextsecond largest city in a month. A densely populated downtown area play reportedly includes a brief beds in each hall are to be set week's White Racism Con­was hit and flames engulfed a petroleum warehouse. 

nude scene. aside for incoming freshmen. 
First reports said at least 15 people were wounded, including an ference, were also present at the 
"When the play was shown at (2) Students who have lived in
American serviceman and 14 South Vietnamese civilians. meeting. McKenna solicited the 
St. John's, it was run by a a hall for a year or more are to
The attack, in the sixth week of the Communists' winter-spring presidents' financial support for 
non-student government organ-be given priority over outsiders. the conference.
offensive, opened with a barrage of eight 122mm rockets and five ization purely for profit. It was ( 3) Any remaining vacancies 
He said that $1300 will be not run on an academic basis,"· are to be op~n to any student inmortar rounds. 
UP! correspondent David Lamb, in a report from Da Nang, said needed to cover conferenct' 
Dowdall said. the University. Whelan said that
one rocket landed in a residential area and another in a petroleum costs, $300 of which he hopes
McKenna said he felt that if he received any complaints
depot where fire erupted. will come through hall dona­
McCarragher's feelings against from students regarding the pro­
The attack on Da Nang coincided with disclosure by the U.S. tions. Most of the money will be 
"based cedures followed in a given hall, 

command that a misdirected rocket attack on a sampan fleet near the play were on a mis-used to cover the travelling ex• 
understanding." he will investigate those proce­
the Cambodian border killed eight South Vietnamese civilians and penses of the conference's 50 
McKenna cited two requests dures.
wounded II. speakers. 
11111111111111111111111111 •••but everything came off all right 111111111111111111111111111111 

By Ted Price Faust?" I didn't really know. in order to return after his death to In one sense, the entire evening was a "To be." Hesitantly. discover the meaning of life. The nude sensitivity exercise. Most of the persons"I hope that all of you know that She nodded, touched my cheek, then scene, although it did seem to cause a let their masks slip a little last night, and, 
admission will only be open to those with 

placed my hand in that of the person on certain loss of ease among the audience I think, learned that it was not at all an 
patron cards." The representative of the my right. I looked at him, embarrassed, was done in good taste. 
unpleasant experience. 

Contemporary Arts Festival Committee and shrugged. I pulled my hand away. explained that the play was being She returned a few munutes later with presented only on this condition. a girl this time. She seated her to my left. 
Finally I was first on the line in the The same rubric of the hands over eyes lobby. A short, not unpretty blonde came and inquiry of purpose. Her hand was to the door and beckoned me inside. then placed in mine. As soon as our 
"Give me your hand." As I extended my right hand, she took ---Observer lnsi~ht--­it in her left and put her right arm around usheress left, she quickly withdrew her me. hand, probably more self-conscious than 
When we reached the place where she I. wanted me to sit, she turned me around, Throughout the entire seating ritual, knell and gently pulled me down by the the cast chanted a litany about eternal arms. When I was seated, she leaned night, birth and death, love and truth. forward and put her hands over my eyes. The lights were out without a dim green 
"Are you ready?" glow from the signs over the ex it~. I mumbled something which passed for The play itself consisted of speeches on an affirmative answer. these themes built around the story of "Have you come to see Faust or to be the man who sells himself on the gallows 


THE OBSERJJER. 
THURSDAY, APRIL 17, 1969
PAGE 2 


LAW STUDIES 

-STUDENT'S EYE VIEW-
An Invaluable Opportunity To 
Hear Students From: NORTHWESTERN • MICHIGAN • NOTRE DAME Describe What Those 3 Years of Law School Are Like 
Membership Sign-up (or 1969-70 Pre-Law Society_ 
Architecture Auditorium e Thursday, April 17 • 8:00 p.m. 

Leston: draft 1s• un -democratic 
By Cliff Wintrode the Library Auditorium. tions that society imposes on the Leston contended that the unwilling potential draftee. Be­
"Conscription is diametrically young male of draft age is feel­sides around 20,000 men in 
opposed to the ideals of 
ing the pressure of a "club of Canada plus others in different democracy." With this state­induction." He is faced with the foreign countries, there are ap­ment, Joseph Leston, College 
choice of either sumbitting to proximately 700 men now in Se~.,Tetary of the Dayton office the· draft or evading or resisting prison on charges relating to of the American Friends Service 
the draft, an action viewed in violations of the Selective Ser­
Committee explained the 
general by society with extreme vice Act. 

A FSC's attitude toward the distaste. 
Commenting on the worlddraft in his speech last night in He mentioned the severe sane-wide scope and effect of a con­




Is itpossible to be passed by at30? 

Absolutely. If you're a 30-yeor-old engineer who's foiled to keep up with the latest developments in his field. 
Because Western Electric's on acknowledged in­dustrial leader in graduate engineering training, that's one worry our engineers don't hove. Our nearly­completed Corporate Education Center near Prince­ton, N. J., for instance, will hove a resident staff of over 100. More than 310 engineering courses will be offered, and about 2,400 engineers will study there 

in 1969. It's the most advanced facility of its kind. 
Ask around. You'll find that when it comes to antici­
pating change, Western Electric is way out in front. 
And we make every effort to keep our engineers there 
too. See our recruiter or write College Relations, 
222 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10038. 
A lot of study, and hord work, never hurt anyone. 
@ Western Electric 
MANUFACTURING &SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 
Tri-Ciass Prom 


TICKET SALES TONIGHT 
scription system he said, "The draft is instrumental in fostering a certain type of foreign policy. It makes interventions like Viet Nam possible." 
Leston felt that the "draft is an issue whether or not there is a Viet Nam." However, he believes that the Viet Nam War escala­tion in 1965 was the catalyst that started the burgeoning anti-draft movement that the United States is now experiencing. 
He said that the debate two years ago in Congress over the expiration of the Selective Ser­vice Act which led to the present Act centered around a way to amend the agreed upon inequit­able draft system rather than the inherent democracy of conscrip­tion. , 
He feared that in the future, 

Congress, in the face of a military with a limitless pool of young men, "would abdicate to the military." Leston wondered how the people who encourage military training with its incumbent de­baseness and violence orienta­tion of individuals expect these same· people to form an "open democratic svstem."  
University of N"otre Dame Band SPRING CONCERT Friday April 18, 1969 8:15p.m. Stepan Center Admission FREE  
Driving Range Par 3 Golf Course Miniature Golf Course Open -Day & Night (weather permitting) Playland Golf Center 1700 Lincoln Way East South Bend, Ind. Phone 288-0033  
Rm.2D 7-10 PM LaFortune Student Center 


THURSDAY, APRIL 18 

----------------------------------------------------------------, 
THURSDAY, APRIL 17, 1969 711E OBSERVER. 
PAGE 3 

Twenty students request election petitions 
By Jim Prisby 
Twenty students took out petitions last night for the upcoming class elections. Among them were two current class presidents and one vice -president. The election will be held Wednesday, April 23. 
Three juniors will vie for the office of Senior Class President. Bob Arnot, Senator from Fisher Ilall, Jack Crawford, Junior Class Vice-President, and Brian Moore, Chairman of the Europe Trip and Vice-President of the New Jersey Club are all running for the top position. 
j~hn Gallagher is currently the only candidate for Senior (]ass Vice-President, and Tom Mignanclli is likewise the sole contender for Treasurer, Curt DeClue, chief announcer for WSND, and Bob Mooney will fight it out for Class Secretary. 
The Sophomore Class election could be unique in that, as of last night, it sported only one candidate for each post. 
Barry Doyle, Sophomore Class President, will agairi run for President. Tom Olivieri is the V-P candidate, and Brian Zevnik and Carl Pavelko will run for Secretary and Treasurer respec­tively. 
The race in the Freshman Class presently features two-men races for all the posts except that of President, where Fresh­man Class President Ray Connell will be opposed by Drexel Ace 

O'Brien for opUonal celibacy 
The re-establishment of a 

married diaconatc in the Amer­
ican Catholic Church has been 
criticized as a "stopgap 
measure" by the Rev. John A. 
O'Brien, research professor of 
theology at the University of 
Notre Dame. 
In an editorial appearing in 

the April issue of Pastoral Life, 
Father O'Brien says "the basic 
Senate censures 6 
Tuesday night action in the Student Senate resulted in the official censure of six Senators. These were: Steven Chardos, Pangborn Hall; Dewey Deifcnbach, Carroll Hall; James Mancini, St. Edwards; Mike 
weakness of the proposed 
diaconate is that the deacons can 
do little, if anything more than 
what is now being done by 
laymen in many m1sswnary 
areas. The deacons cannot for­
give sins, neither can they cele­
brate Mass-two of the most 
essential and necessary functions 
of the priesthood." 
Father O'Brien, who supports optional celibacy for Catholic priests, argues that a more ef­fective step to solve the priest shortage would be to reactivate "the hundreds of good and dedi­cated priests, resigned from the active ministry largely because of compulsory celibacy, who would gladly return." 

Mcad, Holy Cross; Mike r.;~==~:;===:;===~~ 
McCafferty, Moreau Seminary; and Rick McDonough, off-campus. The six senators had a record 
of two or more unexcused ab­sences. Their censorship, accord­ing to Senate llouse Rules, is the 
loss of "all privileges of the 
Senate" including voting. The lost privileges can be regained only by a decision of the respec­tivc Senators' Hall Councils. 
For off-campus senator McDonough, decision for re­ir.statement of Senate privileges is to be decided by the Off­Campus Judicial Board. 

THE ACCLAIMED MOTION PICTURE John Cassavetes'"FACES" 
Times: 
Daily 6:30 9:30 
Saturday 6:50 9:30 
Sunday Continuous trom 1:00 p.m. 
Coming 
THE COMMITTEE 
The Observer Is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $IO from The Observer, Box II, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage 
GJf •.11'\ure 
J v
thinking ofthe 
GD · .J • • CT :r. 
-.1.\..ellgiOUS -LuC...
{;o
0 8 
'"~e te~n 
.a~; r ~ rt~ 1.
-rU 11ef 
If you are seriously thinking of the priesthood, the ques­tion becomes not "what" but "who." 
Who can allow you to utilize your own innate talents? Who is most attuned to our times'! Who can offer ·the most freedom in your work? 
The answer is the Paulists. Their goal is to meet the needs of all God's people as they arise in each era and each age. The Paulist tries to make Christ, His teach­ings and His Church more understandable to those he can reach. 
In our recent Renewal Chap­ter we established the guide­lines by which a Paulist seminarian and priest would operate in these changing times. A summary of these renewal principles is avail­able to those who question "whether a priest can really be with it today." 
To find out more about the Paulist spirit, send for an illustrated brochure and a summary of our Renewal Chapter Guidelines. 
Write to: 
Vocation Director 
'Paulisth
Pat erg 
and Joseph Kuffaben. 
John Reardon and Joe Stankus will contend for the V-P position, and Larry Burns is op­posed by Eric Kinkopf for the office of Secretary. Dan McGrogan and Cass Rt<ject con­clude the present list of candi­dates in their struggle for next year's Class Treasurer. 
Each candidate has received an official nomination form and must obtain 50 full signatures and corresponding addresses of Notre Dame students. This form m~_st be returned to the Student Government Office by 11:00 a.m. Friday. 

A number of official class election rules have been given to each candidate and must be ad­hered to closely. The rules affect campaign procedures in particular. 
Election publicity may be posted only in official bulletin board areas and in stairwells. No material can be hung on build­ings or trees. 
Active campaigning cannot begin until noon tomorrow and must end 2:00 a.m. Wednesday. 
The maximum amount that can be spent in the campaign is $100 for class presidents, $75 for vice-presidents, and $50 for secretaries or treasurers. Each candidate must submit a sample of each campaign item and a description of each campaign ex­pense to the Student Govern­ment Office' within 24 hours of the item's appearance, accom­panied by a retail sales receipt. 
Nomination petitions may be obtained in the Student Govern­ment Office no later than II: 00 
a.m tomorrow. 


The Honda Scrambler 90. Just sips gas--160 mpg. Upkeep's easy. So's insurance and initial cost. Never any trouble when you want to park. Good looks that won't quit. And talk about being fast--a rugged, dependable OHC 4 stroke engine opens this baby up to 59 on the highway. 
So stop watching good money go down the old gas tank. Pick up a Scrambler 90 at your nearest Honda dealer. 
See your Honda dealer for a color brochure, sr~fely pamphlet and "Invisible CirciC'" film: or write: Arncrir;nn Honda Motm Co~. Inc., Dept C-14. Box 50. Gard0na Cal.lornia 90247. 
I~P~a~ld~,~N~o~t~re~O~a~m~e~ln~d~.~4~65~5~6~.----l~~==~================~~~-~~~~~---­
l_ ----~--~--~--~---~~---­
THE OBSERJJER. 

THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper TIMOTHY O'MEILIA, Editor-in-Chief DONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Executive Editor DAVID M. BREEN, Business Manager FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME., INDIANA 
Hide and seek 
The press was supposedly barred from last night's Minnesota Firehouse Theater production which opened the Contemporary Arts FestivaL The intent, of course, was to prevent the outside press from discovering that the University had permitted a performance on its campus which included a nude scene. 
The play, loosely built around Dr. John Faust, did include several minutes of nudity, which effected some concern at St. John's College in Minnesota, where the play was previously performed. 
Notre Dame's Vice President for Student Affairs Rev. Charles I. McCarragher, CSC, almost cancelled the production earlier in the day. However, Student Body President Phil McKenna negotiated an agreement with Fr. McCarragher which permitted the production of the play. One stipulation was that the press be barred. The other was that only people with CAF cards be permitted to attend. 
Despite the ban the OBSERVER managed to have several reporters at the play. Photographer John McDermott was forced to hide for nearly thirty minutes in the men's robm to escape detection. He was also forced to promise that no pictures of the nude scene would be printed, although the OBSERVER would not have printed them in any case. 
The entire concept of barring the press from a public event is preposterous. Outside news agancies often cover artistic and educational events on campus. There is absolutely no legitimate reason to bar the press from any event of the Contemporary Arts Festival. 
In any case, it is blatantly obvious that the University is attempting to preserve its easily tarnishable Golden Dome. For all her cliches about the University as a place of open expression and open investigation of all areas of education and life, she seems extremely anxious about the practical implementation of such ideals. 
Why the University would wish to cover the fact of nudity in a play on campus is an object for speculation. Perhaps she fears it violates the Catholic tradition. If it does, she is hypocritical to allow its presentation. Perhaps she fears financial reprisals. If so, she is lying to her contributors. Perhaps she is leery of the pressure of public opinion. If that is. the case she is misrepresenting herself. 
We can think of no honest reason which could legitimately prevent the press from covering a function of the Contemporary Arts Festival. We wonder who the University is attempting to fool? 

On paternalism 
The 66th annual National Catholic Educational Association convention last week in Detroit heard University President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh hold forth on the role of the student in University life, among other things. 
"God bless these difficult, demanding revolutionary students," he said, "who are the reason and often the despair of our educational existence. We find it difficult to live with them but without them there would be little reason for institutions." 
More to the point he said, "Their desire for involvement is good ... their concern that the University be a community in which they have a real and not a fictitious part." He further urged that university presidents create means whereby students may participate in the structure of the university to the limit of their ability. 
There can be no doubt that Notre Dame has taken steps in that direction, the creation of the Student Life Council being the most direct manifestation. However it does not always seem to us that the creation of such an organization was as easy nor the entire student voice issue so simple and clear-cut as Father Hesburgh makes it seem. 
The creation of the SLC came only after much exhortation and lengthy discussions with University officials. In fact it seems that every "concession" the student has gained in the past few years has been only after many teeth-pulling sessions. 
Father Hesburgh also spoke of the paternalistic attitude many university presidents have toward their students. However we must hasten to point out, as always, the recent actions taken in the demonstrations policy and the Vaciline confiscation, which took place without cons u Itation of the appropriate organizations and committees created for that purpose. 
Though these two incidents have been belabored ad nauseam, they are nevertheless true. Simply and bluntly, students should be included in all decision-making which affects students, and these two occurrences certainly. We ask Father Hesburgh to consider his own words more carefully and say what he means, or mean what he says. 
But it's encouraging that he's talking about it. 
Almost everyone agrees that something must oe done about the social atmosphere here at Notre Dame. Even those people who are usually most reluctant to admit that anything at Notre Dame needs to be changed are willing to admit that there is a need to bring more girls here simply to help make the environment more livable, natural, and enjoyable. Possibly those three things are not justification enough in themselves to be' too concerned about doing something about the situation. But the point is that anything that contributes to making living here more comfortable will aid in promoting an atmosphere more conducive for learning-which is what this place is all about. 
Of course the counter argument is that bringing more girls here will create an atmosphere less conducive for learning. The argument is shallow, for education means helping young people to grow and develop in every aspect and it is just as important for a young woman and a young man to be socially prepared for life as it is to be intellectually prepared. Of course someone usually adds the fact that in today's integrated society a woman can contribute as much .to scholarly pursuit as a man and so it wouldn't hurt Notre Dame if more girls attended classes here. The argument is not necessary though, because by now the premise that women are as intellectually qualified as men is one that should be assumed at the outset of any argument. There is no reason to be ashamed of admitting that young people, who are learning and growing at an institution of higher learning, enjoy being men and women as well as "scholars." 
Notre Dame hasn't done much in the way of trying to improve 
the situation here, or at least, not publicly. The effort to get Bar at 
College to move down here has failed for a number of reasons and 
the administration hasn't seemed too concerned about finding a 
replacement. 
There has been some talk of vacating Holy Cross and St. Joe Halls 
and having Barat girls come down here for a semester of study. 
However, such an arrangement would not be a real solution to the 
problem. What is needed is a definite decision on an acceptable plan 
and immediate efforts to bring about its implementation. 
There seem to be two possible alternatives. One is the concept of 
a cluster of colleges with two or three small girls' schools located at 
the periphery with Notre Dame in the center. The other plan calls 
for Notre Dame to admit women to undergraduate study. 
Each plan has its relative merits and drawbacks. Both would solve 
the problem of bringing more women to campus. But opponents of 
the cluster college idea say that the chances of convincing a small 
girl's college to move here only to be absorbed by Notre Dame and 
lose its identity are slim. And the chances of getting two or more are 
nearly impossible. Besides, the schools who might be interested will 
have troubles selling their old campuses. And, opponents claim, even 
if a school decided to come, the time needed to move an entire 
college to Notre Dame would be too long. Those who oppose 
co-education, on the other hand, claim that the admittance of girls 
would tarnish the "tradition" of the school and offend contributing 
alumni. Besides, they claim a large number of students choose to 
come to Notre Dame because it is an all male institution. 
While the discussion continues on both sides the problem continues to exist. Perhaps, the SLC and the Board of Trustees might take a look at the following possibility. Construction of two more high rise dorms is scheduled to begin soon, possibly in the summer of 1970. In order to fill the dorms and help pay for them the administration will probably have to force virtually all students to live on campus and possibly increase enrollment at the same time. With the growing interest of students to live off campus, the move toward a completely residential university is a disconcerting note. 
Why not offer to lease one of the dorms to a girl's college while allowing them to use the rest of Notre Dame's educational facilities? If there are no takers, Notre Dame could decide to admit women With either alternative Notre Dame could begin to move toward becoming a truly great University campus. 
THE OBSERrJER  
Hank Bell, Managing Editor  Bill Mitchell, Editorial Page Editor  NEWS STAFF  LAYOUT STAFF  
Guy DeSaplo, News Editor  Dave Stauffer, Copy Editor  Pat Anderson  Dave Lammers  Mary Beth Crimmins, Editor  Chuck Darst  
Jim Prisby, Ass't News Editor  Glenn Corso, Ass't News Editor  Dave Bach  Bill Markle  Patty Lipscomb  John Sellinger 
Tom Ehrbar, Features Editor  Ted· Price, Associate Editor  Bruce Bowles  Mike Mooney  
Phil Bosco, Photography & Art Editor  Channing Brackey  P.J. Moran  BUSINESS STAFF  
Mike Pavlin, Sports Editor  Pam Carey  Fran Nolan  Cliff Wintrode, Advertising Manager 
John McDermott, Photographer  Bernadine Connolly  Susan Orloski  Edward Schreck, Subscriptions Manager 
Ann Conway  Jim Raley  James Schumaker, Circulation Manager 
SPORTS STAFF  CARTOONISTS  Mary Fahey  Phil Schatz  Nancy Erdman  Sue Bourden  
Terry Shields  John Heinrich  Shaun Reynolds  Dave Fromm  Bob Schueler  Tom Lemker  Tom Cashore  
Pete Bruderle  Greg Wlngenfeld  Kim Kristoff  Sally Gildea  John Simone  Steve Dollinger  Jim Flanagan 
Don Kennedy  Martin Graham  Addie Stepanic  Tom Schreck  Claudio Cerulli  
Laura Haferd  Gary Stofick  
John Haley  Jeanne Sweeny  SALESMEN  
Bill Holley  Mike Van Remortel  Paul Godbout  Bill Luking  
Chuck Jackson  Carol White  Tim Monty  P.J. Schroeder  
Dan Koehler  Janice Williams  

Hell 1n the Pacific IS Heaven on the screen 
The film is no financial extravaganza, In a sequence where the two men come
By Tom Ehrbar 
unintelligible, a mere jumble of sounds,with a cast totaling two, Lee Marvin and together face-to-face for the first time, they can only communicate as would two
Tashiro Mifune, both experienced perfor­the camera focuses in on each man's eyes, 
Hell in the Pacific is hardly the kind of beasts on the island. And since there are
mers. And this pair, each representing a then projects the visual image within each 
story you'd expect a film called Hell in no artificial, civilized methods of
distinct culture and speaking a different man's mind. While making its point, the
the Pacific to be about. No gore, no exchange, the two must appreciate each
language, are pitted against each other on maneuver is confusing and over-dramatic. 
glory, not even a girl-only a remarkably other and resort to joint efforts simply
a tiny deserted island which exerts an For the most part, the use of the camera
powerful film which indicates just how because this increases their chances of
intriguing force all its own. 

is restricted to action shots and facial
far war movies have advanced since the survival.
Mifune, a Japanese soldier, while stran­expressions, and comes off very well. The days when Sergeant John Wayne, trapped ded, has, in all the traditions of an acting, and this is real acting since alone it The rapport is closest in the building of in the heat of battle, would calmly and Oriental Robinson Crusoe, structured a must communicate thought and emotion, a raft, on which they sail away and whichmelodramatacally droll "Now 1don't like comfortable life for himself, with a neat is natural and convincing. floats them to another tiny island. Therethis stinking war anymore than the rest of little shack, fishing traps, and a contrap­they set out exploring and are lured by anyou pansies-but I've got three stripes on At once, Mifune plots out a strategy
tion to catch fresh water as it comes abandoned and worn-out military set­my shoulder which make up my mind for dripping off leaves following a downpour. for self defense, which obviously demon­tlement. Once inside, they indulgeme." He is content. strates, in all its primitiveness, the theory symbolically in a few rituals of civili­of territorial imperitive. What man has zation (i.e., shaving, dressing up, reading,claimed for his own, man will fight to and downing a few drinks).. And out of secure. And so the panicked J ap sailor th~ relaxed atmosphere the original antag­ignites destructive fires, lashes up a bar­omsms of chauvanistic character oncericade of spears, and hangs an alarm again emerge. 
system of dangling sea shells. 
For a while, Marvin is successful in his To say the ending is surprising would evasion. He is cool and cocky •. continually be flat understatement. But how do you taunting and badgering his foe, adding an close off a story like this without falling almust ludicrous note to the violence guilty to oversimplification or to moral­which is imminent. Then, on one foray, istic preaching? So the film winds up Mifune captures Marvin, resists killing after I 03 minutes with everyone's him, and harnesses him to a heavy yoke. mouths wide open, gasping for an Soon however, as the audience waits in explanation that isn't there. hidden anticipation, Marvin escapes and reverses the situation, binding Mifune to Still, the earlier content of the movie the yoke and teaching him to fetch a raises all sorts of political, moral, and stick like an obedient dog. philosophical considerations, and does so 
But the game grows stale and Marvin in a highly dramatic and impressive frees his captive. The two men need each fashion. Hell in the Pacific is a thought other, and their dependence even out­film, there's no disguising it. No need toSo Hell in the Pacific, rather than But not for long. Forced to ditch his weights their instinctive animosity. They either. Its concern for the implications ofthrowing the usual gung-ho courage stuff plane, Marvin arrives at the island, begin to co-operate. continued civilization, especially its at us, comes across subtley, sneaking in a brought adrift by his life-raft. Soon the dangerous tendencies is crucially relevantphilosophical message which is certainly two discover each other, and since a war This is the statement of Hell in the to an atomic age. 
is going on, and since one man is Amer­
not pro-war, not even anti-war, as much Pacific-it's a parable of man operating in Hell in the Pacific is the best war movieican and the other Japanese, there is no
as anti-civilization. Yet, today when even the elemental world of the animal-it's offered in a long, long time. Of course,means of formal communication; the
Harvard is losing its cool, I imagine also a fragment of both war and peace. 
we're still waiting for Catch-22.
anything is possible. situation leads to mutual fear and dis­Because the words of each other are 
trust. 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
An Occasional Poem Written Upon the Occasion of Now look thro' Fate! behold the scene she draws! Next, o'er his Bills his eyes began to roll, 
the Retirement of J. Richard Rossie & Friends From What aids, what armies to assert her cause! In pleasing memory of all he stole. 
Positions of Power, Inscribed to Edith Sitwell, The See all progeny, illustrious sight! How here he snip'd, how there he punder'd snug, 
Mother of US All and Called After Mr. Pope's Poem Behold and count them as they rise to light. And suck'd all o'er, like an Industrious Bug. 
of the Same Name. As Hesburgh Maximus while his offspring vye 
Book the Third
In homage to the Mother of the sky, 
Surveys around him, in the blest deep 
Now turn to the sports, round Rossie cries 
The Dunciad 

A hundred sons, and every son a Veep: 
And learn, my sons, the wondrous power of Noise. Not with less glory is McKenna crown'd, 
To raise, to raise, to ravish every Heart ., 'he following is the complete text (asfar as all available Taking thro LaFortune his triumphant round; 
With Hesburgh's or with Crosson's art, 
sources have been able to determine) of a major epic poem And his Parnassus glancing o'er at once 
Let others aim: Tis yours to shake the Board
delivered at a Senate meeting (you remember the Student 
Beheld a hundred sons and each a Dunce. 
With Thunder rumbling and forever scored, 
Senate surely!) several weeks ago. The author, the poet 
Mark first that Clark who takes the foremost place, 
With horns and trumpets now to madness swell, 
laureate ofMcKenna's student government, has since gone into 
And thrusts his person full into your face. 
Now sink in sorrows with a tolling bell, 
exile and refuses to allow his name into print. His literary 
With all his predecessor's vices blest, be born! 
Such happy arts attention can command,
executor, Walter Ong, commented, when the Observer asked 
And a new Rembusch shall the stage adorn. 
him about the poem, "I don't know why you want to publish When fancy flags and sense is at a stand. 
A second see, by meeker manners known
this piece of junk. He has much more obscure things. "-Editor Now thous2nd tongues are heard in one loud din And modest as the maid that sips alone; 
Now Nau and Nau's mimics rush discordant in. 
Book The First 

From the strong of drams if thou get free 
Twas chattering grinning, mouthing, jab bering all. Committees and the Man I sing, the first who feasts Another Wade, Trevino, shall gape in thee. And Noise and Chris Wolfe, Brangling and Brevail Moran, the scourge of nausea, mark with awe, 
The Morrissey Muses to the Ear of Priests. Payne and Dissonance and captious Art. Nor less revere him, blunderbuss of Law.
Say great Patricians! (since your selves inspire And snip-snap short and interruption smart, Lo Kukielski's brow, tremendous to the town,
These wondrous words; so Ted and Mac require) And Demonstration Thin and Theses thick O'Meilia fierce eye, and Holliday's funereal Frown.
Say from what cause, in vain decried an..d curst, And Major, Minor and Conclusion Quick 

Lo sneering Carbine, half goody and half whim 
Dunce the second will reign like Dunce the first? An Angel in glee, ridiculously grim. 
In eldest time, e'er students loved or lost, In each Hesburgh marks his Image full exprest
E'er parietals issued at the Trustees' cost, Dulness o'ver all 1 possess'd1 her ancient right, But chief in Rossie's monster-breeding breast, Child of celibacy and lonely Night: 
Rossie, form'd by nature, Stage and Town to bless, 
Fate in her dotage this fair idiot gave And act and be a Coxcomb with success. Crn~s ll~ her sire, and as her mother grave, Dullness with transport eyes the lively Dunce, 
Remembering she herself was Pertness once. 
Laborious, heavy, busy, bold, and stodgy 
She ruled, at Notre Dame, the clean male body. Now (shame to Fortune) an ill Run at the Union Blank'd his bold visage and lost him in the stanchion. Book The Second 
Swearing and chickenfed the Hero sate, 
Blasphem'd his Gods, the students, and damn'd his Fate. Close to the walls where Rossie holds his throne Then gnaw'd the Senate, then dash'd it on the ground, And laughs to think that Rembusch would take him down, Sinking from thought to thought, a vast Profound! Where o'er the gates, by their famed father's hand Plung'd for his sense, but found no bottom there, Great Browning's brazen brainless brothers stand. Yet screamed and gaped on, in mere despair. In clouded majesty here Rossie shines Round him much Embryo, much Abortion lay, Four guardian Virtues, round, support his throne. Many future Councils and abdicated power play. And see my friends! the hour is on its way Nonesense precipitate, like running Lead, That lifts our llesburgh to papal sway; That slip'd thro Cracks and Zig-Zags of the Head; This fav'rite School, long sever'd from her reign, All that on Folly Frenzy could beget, Dove-like, Dulness gathers to her wings again. Fruits of dull Heat and Sooterkins of Wit. 
'Tell it to Tommy' 
Desperate, sick-of-it-all, disillusioned­then tell it to Tommy (no we're not kidding.) All letters seeking personal ad­vice will be answered in a new OB­SERVER feature "Tell it to Tommy". Or, if requested and a self-addressed envelope is enclosed, Tommy will send his reply confidentially through the mail. 
Also, keep posted on how to obtain a free copy of Tommy's booklet "Is it sex, or love, or both, or neither?" 
Send all letters to: 
"Tell it to Tommy" The OBSERVER Box II Notre Dame 


THE OBSERVER

PAGE 6 
Impartial Observer Editor: 
Perhaps the autobiographical nature of this letter can be ex­plained by Dr. Loveless' asser­tion, quoted in the Observer of March 25, that "most Notre Dame students have not been given sufficient opportunities in 
this all male environment to ad­
vance mentally beyond the ado­
lescent stage of puberty." If 
what I write has any significance 
at all, it can, I believe, be attri­
buted to the non-descriptness of 
my personality. I am not a stu­
dent leader. I am not a bearded 
radical. I am not a jock. I am 
SUMMER JOBS 

WE HAVE A SPECIAL JOB JUST FOR YOU! 
National Agency of Student Employment 
P. 0. Box 52492 New Orleans, Louisiana 70150 

Cash 0 Check 0 Money Order 0 GENTLEMEN: PLEASE SEND 1969 SUMMER JOB DIRECTORIES CHECKED BELOW. $3.00
0 VACATION RESORT JOBS -----------------------------------------------------------------------­Work with students at America's finest Resorts. 0 FOREIGN JOBS ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------$3.00 Gain valuable experiences abroad with pay. 0 CAREER TRAINING OPPORTUNITii:S ------------------------------------------------------$3.00 Start your career working with America's best companies. 
D SPECIAL OFFER -Our latest bulletin which contains all three job fields plus a special job assignment for you. Please state interest and desired location ____________________ $4.00 
Putting you first, keeps us first. 

Camaro SS Sport CoupP with Rally Sport equipment 
Instant vacation. 
Camaro-the Hugger 
nothing other than an impartial observer who has been irrepara­bly affected by four years at Notre Dame. In light of recent reactionary policies outlined by various members of the adminis­tration I would like to describe the effect that the kind of Uni­versity that they want has had upon myself. Hopefully a read­ing of this tragic litany will cause a few persons to rethink their positions in regard to the nature of an ideal Notre Dame. Unfor­tunately I cannot afford to place a full page ad in the New York Times. 
In four years as a student at 
the University of Notre Dame, I have changed in the following ways: from a devout Catholic to a hardened agnostic; from a tee­totaler to an alcoholic; from a relatively social (I refer here to relations with the opposite sex) being to a degenerate who has completely despaired of ever having a meaningful relationship with a female-I am assuming here, of course, that our species is still heterosexual, as it was four years ago; from a person who at least tried to be creative to a nihilistic nonentity; and lastly, from a reasonably healthy psychological state to one of 

neurosis. 
I honestly wish I were an exception, but I see entirely too much evidence to the contrary about me. I only hope that the Fathers of the Notre Dame Fam­ily will reconsider their recent actions which have sealed the fate of what could have been a great university. 
Sadly yours, 
Charles Frantz '69 
Imaginary vs. Real 
Editor: 
With regard to the anonymous letter in the April l st Observer concerning coeducation, I can­not seem to get into the spirit of the joke. I am a homosexual at Notre Dame, not an imaginary one but a real one. I have no intimate friends on the North Quad, or on any other quad, for that matter. I am cowed by fear of the attitude of hate and scorn which has been so assiduously trained into your typical lonely, helpless Notre Dame man. He will make life miserable for me if I so much as try to find out who my friends are. And yet, the clever joker who wrote "Big Homo and Friends," cutely capi­talizing on everyone's gratuitous hate for my kind, thinks he has struck a heroic blow for the cause by his conscienceless and groundless insinuation that ho­mosexuals disapprove of straight sex and therefore oppose coedu­cation. 

M.lflltOfUCHL(NCr 
A lot of people have the idea that a vacation begins only when you get where you're going. 
Obviously, they haven't vaca­tioned in Camaro, the Hugger_ You start relaxing the moment you come in contact with Camara's contoured bucket seats. You feel snug without feeling stuffed in. 

Now you're getting in the right frame of mind to consider some other attractions. Like Astro VPntilation in every model. And, road sense that gives you thE' fPPling this is one car that knows 
its way around-anything. 
Start your vacation early this year. The minute you step into a Camara. Your ChPvrolet dealer will make all tmvel arrangements. 
THURSDAY, APRIL 17, 1969 
Let him not impute his own brand of narrowness to those who are victimized by it. I, for one, know the meaning of depri­vation well enough to sympa­thize with the need most stu­dents feel for a greater availabil­ity of women on the campus. I 

heartily wish that every straight man here had his heart's desire in a free access to the kind of person he needs for his psycho­logical and physiological well-be­ing. But this is more, I'm afraid, than he would deign to say for me. 
no name, of course 
An Ingratiating View 
Editor: 
Re your articles on the values of coeducation-it is apparent that the authors are indeed af­flicted with the very thing they are decrying: an inability to see anything except from their own ingratiatingly male viewpoint. This is best dramatized by one of the titles of the series-"Co­education: We need their minds, too." I presume that this means in addition to their bodies, which are of more interest. The minds come along, too, for extra entertainment. In the same ar­ticle, appear these astute lines: "The fact is that women's minds are as good as, and in some cases 
better than men's minds." Now this was really generous. To ad­mit that some women might even be intellectually superior to men was really beyond the call of duty. 
Another fairly asinine remark was, "As astounding as it may sound to us Notre Dame Men, men and women can and do get together for other reasons beside sex." These two dear boys have just made this wonderful disco­very, and want to share it with their less knowledgeable friends, who I hope will benefit from the information. 
All of these articles have suc­ceeded in displaying the tradi­tional view of women held by men. Women should be brought to Notre Dame to fill the various needs of the students. Not once is it mentioned what the benefits will be to the girls coming to Notre Dame. PerHaps, it is as­sumed that the opportunity to date a Notre Dame man would be sufficient incentive_ 
Another non-sequitur is that the presence of girls would bring down the amount of juvenile delinquency and help to raise the level of maturity of the male students. One only has to look at almost any coed school to doubt the validity of this state­ment. Granted, women do have a civilizing affect, but to say that the average student's rnaturing process will be greatly helped by the presence of women is doubt­ful. Also, you insinuate that coeducation would solve the stu­dents' feelings of sexual incom­petence and frustration. Where are you going to find all these willing girls? Finally, I would like to say that I am not against coeducation, just your inane pre­sentation. 
Carole Bica 
St. Mary's Coiiege 


WHO CARES ABOUT STUDENT OPINION? BUSINESSMEN DO. 


Three chief executive officers-The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company's Chairman. Russell DeYoung. The Dow Chemical Company's President H D. Doan. and Motorola's Chairman, Robert W Galvin-are responding to serious questions and viewpoints posed by leading student spokesmen about business and its role in our changing society through 
means of a campus /corporate Dialogue Program. 
Here. Arthur M. Klebanoff. a senior at Yale, 
who plans graduate studies and a career in 
government. is exchanging views with 
Mr. Galvin. 

In the course of the Dialogue Program. Arnold Shelby, a Latin American Studies major at Tulane, also wtH explore issues with Mr. Galvin; as will David M. Butler. Electrical Engineering, Michigan State. and Stan Chess. 
lllOflll

••••••••
•••••,••• 

........ 

Dear Mr. Galvin: 
Student reaction to business is conditioned 
by what appears in newspapers and 
magazines. And what appears concerns 
investigations more frequently 
than innovations. 
We read of industries with across-the-board product unreliability, and watch the nation's largest corporations attack Ralph Nader for defending the public against such frauds. Many of us have had our own bad experiences with mis-filled orders or short-lived products more expensive to repair than to replace. 
We read of industries raping the 
countryside in the Redwood forests of 
California, the strip mines of Kentucky, 
and the oil fields of Oklahoma while 
preserving their malicious advantage with 
a peculiar and depressingly traditional 
brand of legislative log-rolling. We see the 
regulators co-opted by the regulated, and 
the future of an industry sacrificed to the 
short-run advantage of a single firm. 
And we read of concerts of industries 
defining their own public interest, and 
calling it progress. Some of us have 
trouble seeing progress in hundred foot 
long trailer trucks, brand-name drugs, 
and supersonic airplanes and the 
congested airports from which they are meant to fly. 
This is a college generation deeply concerned with personal honesty. To 
many college· students business appears unreliable and destructively self­interested. Only the most positive actions by the business community can change this reaction, and create any significant degree of interest on the campus. 
My question Mr. Galvin is what will 
business do to police itself? 
\Wi:~·\ZOa_ YV 
Arthur Kleban~\\ 
Government. Yale 
Dear Mr. Klebanoff: 
A newspaper that ran stories such as "120 Million People Committed No Murders Yesterday" ... "Thousands of Officials Found Corruption-Free" ... "Very Few Students Are Sex-Crazed Dope Addicts," would lose readership. Newspapers must, by definition, report the "news"-including factual occurrences, but putting emphasis on extraordinary events. Crimes, wars, and corruption, are unusual happenings, and are thus reported in our news media. 
A report that a "New Drivemobile Sedan 
is Found Unsafe" is of greater importance 
to the motoring public than, say, 
"Fifty Makes of Autos Pass Safety Tests." 
Most newspaper reports of fraudulent 
practices by business firms are accurate. 
However, n&wspapers are sometimes 
guilty of subjective interpreting and 
reports of entire industries with "across­
the-board product unreliability" can only 
be described in those terms. 
A single corporation (much less an entire industry) would not survive long by producing inferior goods. Competition is self-regulating for one thing, and most corporations are bound to meet certain standards specified by various trade associations and institutes. Government regulations, too, must be met, and, finally, the buying public has the last word. 
Business is policing itself, Mr. Klebanoff. Consider some of the positive aspects of modern, responsible corporations while you weigh the shortcomings and malpractices. You have read of industries "raping the countryside," but apparently you haven't read reports of businesses and industries involved in conservation­an involvement in which billions of dollars are being expended, and will continue to cost many billions more. 
An important conservation activity by industry is the building of huge lakes by the nation's investor-owned electric power companies. Although these water masses are essential to the companies' operations, they create valuable and much-needed reservoirs of fresh water. Power companies usually open these lakes to the public for recreational purposes. An example of this is Commonwealth Edison's latest watershed which provides the pubfic with over 100-miles of newly reclaimed shoreline. 
Lumber companies, far from "raping" our forestlands. are in fact responsible for their growth. A lumber company would 
Journalism. Cornell, with Mr. Doan; similarly, 
Mark Bookspan. Pre-Med, Ohio State. and 
David G. Clark. Political Science MA candidate at Stanford, with Mr. DeYoung. 
These Dialogues will appear in this publication. and other campus newspapers across the country, throughout this academic year. Campus comments are invited, and should be forwarded to Mr. DeYoung, Goodyear, Akron, Ohio; Mr. Doan. Dow Chemical, Midland, Michigan; or Mr. Galvin. Motorola. Franklin Park, 11/inois. as appropriate. 
Arthur M. Klebanoff. Yale 
not stay in business if it did not operate on the principle of "sustained yield"­growing at least as many trees as it harvests. 
Boise-Cascade Lumber Company is one of many that conducts multi-use forestry programs-the company's timber lands are open to the public for recreational purposes such as camping, fishing, hunting, hiking. Logging roads allow public access into these areas and are also invaluable in forest fire control. It is a fact that game increases in well­managed forests ... this again is a contribution to conservation. 
The National Association of Manufacturers estimates that American corporations are currently spending in excess of $500 million annually on air pollution control research and methods. Many millions more are being poured into water .pollution control by business. 
Slum clearance and renovation currently claim the energies and financial resources of a number of corporations; others are working on improved sewage and garbage disposal systems. 
Yes, there is some legislative "log­rolling", lobbying. and o-..her questionable practices, just as there ar~ some unscrupulous doctors, studt!nts who cheat, corrupt people in government, criminals roaming our streets, traitors and deserters in the Armed Forces. Like you, I believe that unethical practices in business-as well as in other fields-are intolerable. 
Efforts by business to "clean house" are increasing, just as business' involvement in society's problems is more evident. Hopefully, students will be more willing in the future to examine both sides of the ledger before passing final judgments. If more of the brighter, talented students, with the high ideals and personal integrity that you mentioned would join business, the self-policing process that you and almost all business leaders seek, would advance more rapidly. 
Sincerely, /} 

~41. .~ Robert W. Galvin Chairman, Motorola Inc. 
<. 
Morrissey adopts parietals 1n• hall referendum 
Morrissey l~all adopted parietal iwvrs in a vote Tuesday. The vote was 202-125. A bill was to be submitted to the 21-member Morrissey Hall council last night concerning the adoption of the SLC parietal hours guidelines. The result of the referendum makes passage of the bill almost certain. 
Such a move, hall leaders stated, would have been intended to dramatize hall autonomy. 
Only Dillon Hall remains from the three halls who had origi­nally opposed adopting the SLC guidelines. The third hall, St. Edward's, passed the SLC meas­ure by referendum before Easter break. 

There had been indications John Putzel, president of 
that the ha:ll would attempt to Morrissey, was generally pleasedinstitute their own hours indep­
with the result of the refer­endent of the SLC guidelines. 
endum. He did not feel that any 

Students for lindsay to organize at ND 
Robert Feeney, a senior, to-Morrissey, and his number is day announced the formation of 3554. He urged all interested Notre Dame Students for Lind-students to contact him as soon say. Feeney is the official cal!l-as possible. 
pus representative for Mayor 
Concert Friday 

Lindsay's campaign. 
Feeney plans to recruit stu-The University of Notre Dame dents from the N.Y. metropoli-Concert Band will present its tan area, to work on Lindsay's annual spring concert at 8: 15 campaign, first in the primary in p.m. Friday in Stepan Center. June and then the election in The concert, which is open to 
... November. the puolic, is the last in a series When asked why he was start-that has taken the band to 10 ing now to campaign for Lindsay cities in five states on its spring Feeney replied, "It is necessary tour. to be done now because the ,...,..-~-s=---=-.1=-=l:--::A------::-=--=-=---=---I 
election will be an indication of eats ti va 
how the country is going." ND • SMC 
Feeney referred to what he called the "conservative back-Student flightlash," which he claimed was being evidenced in the country to Europe today. 
Feeney said that he supported $258 Round Trip BOAC candidates by their "ideas, not Jet Fare; London-New York party labels." He previously J]Jne 9-August 6 worked on the Kennedy cam-Brian 289-4682 paign, both in New York and in Call Immediate~y or 
Bill 283-1201 
--------== 

•autoo 
1 europ.~ il ' 
STUDENT/FACUL TV GRANT Program Special rates in European overseas travel

1 \I
for purchase, lease, & rental of cars. For 
details and brochure write: University ant Dept., Auto Europe, 1270 Second enue, New York, New York 10021. 

confrontation with the adminis­autonomy. He added, however, autonomy. McKenna had spoken tration over the adoption of that he still was not totally to both the residents of St. Ed's independent hours would have satisfied with the SLC measure. and Morrissey, urging them not any significant positive effect in "I do think they (the halls) to be "hypocrytical" by accept­the move for hall autonomy. should institute their own guide­ing guidelines they could not 
"I see no advantage in lines," he said. enforce. bucking the administration," Student Body President Phil "I asked them to consider all said Pu tzel. McKenna did not view the Mor­the points and evidently they 
The president said that he was rissey referendum as any set­did," McKenna commented on "no absolutist" concerning hall back for his emphasis on hall the Morrissey vote. 
~------------------~-------------------------------------. 
Askthe2618 graduates who joined an industry leader last year 
-aboutJEtna. 

Even .tEtna can't be everybody's thing. But for any 
graduate with an interest in people and an inquisitive 
mind, a career with us can stretch your capabilities. 
Helping people is our kind of thing. After all that's what insurance is all about. Ifit's also yours, we have opportunities in three basic areas-administrative, analytical or sales management. And we need engineering and business graduates as well as liberal arts people. 
At .tEtna, our business is selling insurance. But our concern is people. 
Learn about )Etna. Ask for "Your 
lllr~;t~.l

Own Thing" at your Placement Office. 
liliilliliii OUR CONCERN IS PEOPLE 
An Equal Opportunity Employer and A Plans for Progress Company. 
LIFE & CASUALTY 

Applications Now Being Accepted for Positions On Student Government Cabinet Committees 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::: 
Contac~ in writing: Gary Mcinerney 
Student Legal Aid Committee 

Judicial Co-ordinator (by April 30th) 
Research and Development Commission Working On Co-Education, University Senate, Physical Plant etc. Contact: John Zimmerman Research & Development Co-ordinator 
Off-Campus Commission Grad Students Welcome to Apply Contact: Bernie Ryan Off-Campus Co-ordinator 
Contact: Ed DaveyPublic Relations Commission Public Relations Co-ordinator 
::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Address All Applications to the Respective Co-ordinator 
c/o Student Government Office 
Box 522 Deadline: Tuesday, April 22
Notre Dame, Ind. 

Interested •tn advertising? 
~ 
Applications being accepted for advertising manager 
SEND ALL APPLICATIONS C/0 THE OESER VER P.O. BOX II NOTRE DAME 




