Specific pollutI•On resuIts presented 
The following is the second in a three-part series on the prob­lems of pollution. This pressing problnn of our time will be examined in a Conference all day Thursday in the Ubrary Auditorium. In this series, the Observer will interview some of the participants and examine some of the problems. It is written by Steve Hjjler, an Observer staff reporter. 
Sometimes it is easy to get lost in the generalizations of the world wide statistics of pollu­tion. One only has to look at the overturned, unused boats or the kids playing out of the water in the middle of summer to appre­ciate a concrete aspect of the "Fresh Water Crisis." 
The way professors Wayne Echelberger and Mark Tenney look at it, "water pollution des­troys the uses of a body of water." In the case (pictured at left) the residents of nearby Cassopolis, Michigan are being deprived of the recreational faci­lities of Stone Lake. This lake, like many others has been over­nourished by nitrogen and phos­phorous found in the runoff from farms and the domestic wastes from cities. 
Among the projects sponsored by the Engineering Department is the clean up of Stone Lake as a large scale experiment in at­tacking this problem. It has been found that "fly ash"-unburned particulate matter from the 
stacks of coal-burning factories -will precipitate the inorgamc chemicals in the water. This will eliminate the "tea like color" and cut down on the growth of weeds. Furthermore this fly ash "forms a barrier at the mud water interface and retards re­turn of bottom pollution" to the lake. As air pollution regulation has forced the gathering of the "forty million tons" of fly ash we produce each year and uses have only been found for 2Vz% of it, a two birds with one solution seems needed. 
Water pollution is significant to more than recreational lake users. In Chicago, "costs of treatment have doubled" be­cause "Lake Michigan is begin-· ning to feel the pinch" and potential drinking water looks, 
(continued on page 2) 



-----:-:::~-=-------------,S:;::c::rv:-::,·::n~t:ih:::c:-N-;v;o:-;:tr;:;c;--nDame and Sa{nt M_arJ' 's College ('ommuni~J' TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1969
VOL. IV, NO. 54 
Notre Dame's contribution to the 1969 Cotton Bowl: Mary Beth Gallagher.  CoHon Queen Last night an overwhelming majority of the Notre Dame student body selected Mary Beth Gallagher, a junior art major at SL Mary's, to be Miss Notre Dame at the Cotton Bowl Classic. Of the 2,21 5 votes cast for the seven candidates, Miss Gallagher received 948. As Miss Notre Dame her du­ties in Dallas will begin with a cocktail party and kickoff din­ner the night of December 30th. The following day her itinerary includes a style show and lunch­eon in the afternoon and the coronation and dance that night. On the final day she shall repre­sent Notre Dame in the Cotton Bowl parade and game. Sophomore cheerleader Terry Buck was second in the voting and freshman Geraldine Chapman was third.  

by Cliff Wintrode Observer Associate Editor A candlelight march honoring the war dead al)d the civilians massacred at Pinkville through downtown South Bend on Friday night will highlight this week's South Bend Vietnam Moratorium activities. "The Moratorium is being conducted to show President 
Nixon that students, workers, and all strata of the South Bend community are in favor of 
ending the Vietnam War and ceasing our racist policies now," said David James, a member of the St. Joseph County Moratorium Committee. 
James felt the Moratorium took on added significance with his inference from Nixon's press conference last night that the United States is, in James' words "subsidizing in money, troops, and weapons," foreign nations like South Korea who have troops fighting in Vietnam. 
Marching Band will attend Cotton Bowl 
Protest problems 
by Don Ruane 
Roher! F. O'Brien, Director and Associate Professor of Bands, revealed yesterday that the University of Notre Dame Marching Band would IW to the Cotton Bowl. The band will leave for Dallas on Monday, December 29 from O'Hare International Airport. They expect to arrive at Love Field in Dallas around noon (CST), according to O'Brien. 
After the band registers at the Adolphus Hotel, they will leave for the Jesuit College Preparatory School where they will practice until approximately six p.m. The band has a full day of practice on Tuesday and on Wednesday morning at the school. On Wednesday afternoon they will have a dress rehersal at the Cotton Bowl. O'Brien said the dress rehersal was necessary because the band will participate 111 a "mass band number at the close of half time activities." 

Notre Dame will give its first performance on New Year's morning when they will march in a nationally televised parade. The parade will start at nine a.m. (CST) and finish at eleven. Immediately after the parade, the band will go to the Cotton Bowl for pre-game activities. At this time, five high school bands will form a victory lane. The Notre Dame team will be introduced as it runs through the lane and the band will play the "Victory March." Foil owing the introductions, the band will play the Alma Mater. O'Brien 
expressed  some  doubt  as  to  
whether  the  Notre  Dame  
students would  be able  to join  

the victory lane because of its length. 
Half time will last appro xi mateI y twenty-five minutes because three bands and a dancing unit will perform. Notre Dame will open the performance with a six minute routine. They will then be followed by the Kilgore College Rangerettes and the Kilgore College Band and then by the Texas Band. These groups will also perform for six minutes. The final six minutes of the half time show will be a rendition of "This is My Land" by the Notre Dame Band, the Kilgore College group and the Texas Band, and the five high school bands. The finale will be highlighted with a map of the United States formed by the entire group of musicians. 
Mr. O'Brien forsees a lot of hard work for his band. He feels that they will not be able to "really relax" until after the game. To provide relaxation for the band, the Cotton Bowl Athletic Association has invited the band to a dance on December thirty-first. The dance, which will last from nine 
p.m. to one a.m., will be held in the Women's Building of the State Fair Grounds. It will be open to students from the competing schools and to any other students of the Southwest Conference schools who are in the city for the game. 
According to O'Brien, the band was invited to attend the game by Father Charles McCarragher, Vice-president of Student Affairs, on the first Friday after it was announced that Notre Dame would accpet the bowl bid. O'Brien said that the idea of going to the bowl had been discussed by the band members and that they had agreed to go if the invitation was offered. 
There are no activities scheduled for the conclusion of the game. The members will pack their equipment for the return trip. After the equipment is secured, the bandsmen are on their own until the morning of January third when they must leave for Love Field. Their plane leaves Oallas at eleven a.m. (CST) and the hand should 
return to the campus around six 
p.m. (EST) on Saturday. 
James claimed that he believed Nixon thought it would be better if these foreign troops died in Vietnam rather than American troops. 
James said that this statement tied in with the murder of Black Panther leader Fred Hampton and that the My Lai Massacre 
fundamentally  underlies  the  
racist  motivation  of  the  
American government.  

"We are sacrificing non-white troops including the Vietnamese to solidify our primarily American interests, and tied in with this is the systematic oppression of the Black Panthers," James said. 
"The system we are trying to uphold is of benefit to only white America, and we are sacrificing non-whites to uphold the white system, and at the same time any non-white group that challenges this system of oppression is destroyed and eliminated." eliminated," he continued. 
Moratorium activities will take place on Thursday night and Friday night. 
A speaker from the Beaver 55, a group that destroyed draft files in Indianapolis and "hit" the midland Michigan offices of Dow, will speak at a loose forum on Thursday night at 8:30 at the First Unitarian Church in South Bend. Movies will also be shown. 
James said the County Moratorium committee in tends to work through the Notre Dame students on the commit tee to promote the moratorium on campus. 
The campus will be leafleted today, tomorrow, and Thursday, and posters will be put up tomorrow night according to James. 
The high schools and factories will also leafleted in an attempt to enlist support for the Moratorium. 
lligh school students will be reached not only hy leaflets hut through the ''Seedling", an unde.rground high school newspaper. 
Union leaders of Teamsters 
Local No. 5 have also been contacted hy the Moratorium Committee. 

TIFFANY &CO. 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. 
CHICAGO 

PHONE: 944-7500 • ZIP: 60611 
additional 
(continued from page 1) 

tastes, smells, and is chemically worse every year. Loss of reven­ue is also realized in the fishing industries of both the Great Lakes and the megapolis Atlantic coast. "Whether they swim away of their own accord or die," the desirable fish are getting scarcer by the year. One of the chief problems affecting Chicago, New York and Detriot and their appropriate marine gar­bage dumps can be seen in 
miniature in South Bend. Like "most major cities," Dr. Echel­berger explained, "South Bend only has one sewer system to handle both waste disposal and storm runoff." Under "wet weather conditions", "when. the sewers are overtaxed," the by­pass relief valves, operated by pressure "allow for direct release into the St. Joe." Anyone who has seen any lack of "wet wea­ther conditions" in South Bend is cordially invited to a splash party... 
Solutions are basically of two varieties: either build dramatical­ly ~etter waste disposal plants or redesign the sewer system. Either course presents problems of "technical and economic fea­sibility". If one stops to think that South Bend's system is in­adequate one can get some idea 
~----~~~----------~~--~-­
WANTED: Campus Mar­5-10 hours per week. ket Research and 
Write to: Marketing Representa­College Marketing Corporation tives. Earn as much as 119 East 38th Street 
New York, N.Y. 10016

$1,000 plus bonuses 
MONTEREY POP 
TUES, DEC 9 -7 & 9 
NASHINGTON :IALL 
ADMISSION: CAF Patrons $.50; others $1.00 
Canned Heat -Eric Burdon and the Animals & Garfunkel -The Who Masekela -Country Joe & the Fish 
Brother & the !folding Company -Otis Redding Mckenzie -Jimi Hendrix ,,.,u,.·•u• & Papas -Ravi Shankar 

711B OBSERfJER. 

for the construction alternative, can you imagine the size of the bill and the resultant chaos of digging up downtown Manhattan or the Loop? 
Even advanced systems like the one the two professors are working on in a pilot project in South Bend cannot return pot­able water to the river. One great aid to the situation would be the development of fertilizers of a more limited life. When I asked Dr. Echelberger if such things would be available in the near future, he neatly summarized one aspect of the contradictory nature of pollution brought about by useful chemicals: "You really hate to say no to these questions because these are the sort of things we have to come up with." 
As most people know, not all 
our water resources are found on 
the surface. Dr. Winkler of the 
geology department explained 
some of the dangers to "aqui­
fers" -underground water bear­
ing stratas. 

A lot of our water comes 
from wells. The aquifers are not 
to be imagined as flexible, im­
pervious casks of water. Especi­
ally when the trapped water is 
pumped out, the stresses and 
~trains underground can lead to 
"leaks." 

The left over "nerve gas dis­
posed of in deep wells near 
Denver could leak to the aqui­
fers", according to Winkler. 
Colorado for Christmas anyone? 
Radioactive wastes have been 
force-pumped into wells causing earthquakes. Long Island's fresh water table has been so lowered by constant consumption that the salt water is starting to seep in. 
Closer to home, aquifers in 
the Michiana area are located in 
"a deep gravel layer l SO feet 
below the surface". Above this 
layer are found both poorly de­
signed septic tanks and old gra­
vel pits filled for your safety 
with non-burnable garbage. In 
southern Indiana and parts of 
Appalachia, acid mine waters 
have been known to infiltrate 
water supplies. 

Sit down, have a nice cool 
glass of water from our own 
well. 

A GUARANTEED SUMMER lOB IN EUROPE
France 
Germany 

Austria Available to you as part of this program is room, board,
Italy 

Sweden medical expenses, round trip air transportation and salary. 
Finalnd 



for further information ana free brochure write: EUROJOB-Rep. 147
Finland 


Norway I 02 Greenwich Ave. 

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1969 
Peace, it's wonderful! 

At least that's what they used to say anyways. Everyone today is seeking peace. Roickle, Leone, Kraniak and others insist that peace is only possible after the old evils have been destroyed in a great 
.conflagration. It is interesting that these people seriously plan to deprive an entire generation of peace in order to guarantee that the next generation will have it (surprismgly similar to saying that they had to destroy America to save it). 
I wonder if those who feel that they have the superior moral right 
to interfere with the lives of others realize that the very actions they 
oppose are justified on the same basis. For example, a group 
destroys draft records (destruction of property being a minor evil) in 
order to attack governmental coercion (being a comparatively major 
evil). Yet the military conscription is considered by those who 
enforce it as a minor evil compared with the alternative of a weak 
nation and the take-over of power by totalitarian forces. 
What would have been the reaction of the Notre Dame Ten (a 
rather pretentious self-proclamation, I must confess) had a bunch of 
jocks waded into them swinging? The Ten (why this eagerness to 
subvert their individuality to a catchy slogan?) claim they were there 
in violation of the rights of some in order to defend the abstracted 
rights of mankind. Yet if they were attacked, their attackers would 
be no less highly motivated (assuming they were not going in to 
"bust the pinko fags" or anything similar). 
The struggle for peace goes on everywhere at all times. Spiro 
Agnew's outspoken and often crude attacks on dissent are part of his 
effort to bring peace by building the credibility of America with 
Hanoi. The New Left's demands for immediate and unconditional 
withdrawal from Viet Nam tonight are based on their assumption 
that war is no more than one man shooting bullets at another man. 
Even the frightening massacres that are coming to light now were 
part of a plan that sacrificed the lives of some Vietnamese villagers in 
order (the soldiers thought) to save other lives Ia ter on. 
The entire peace movement (which, set:n dearly, includes every;:me 
with the possible exception of George Wallace) shares two mistaKes. 
First, it is authoritarian and lacks awareness of individualism. 
Secondly, it becomes effective only when it betrays the ideals it 
stands for. 

The cries on the right for unity are but echoes of the cries on the 
left for solidarity. Both right and left accuse the other of being 
simplistic and unrealistic and both are justified. Neither is fully 
aware of what is entailed in the struggle for peace or even what 
peace itself is. 

A good educational experience might be the upcoming Model 
United Nations. It would be useful for many people here at Notre 
Dame and St. Mary's to try to deal with 126 different national egoes 
in an attempt to make people forgive and forget. Perhaps our 
radicals could gain some of our conservatives' sense of reality while 
the¥,_jn turn, picked up a little radical compassion. 
But the Model United Nations is just that-a model. It is up to each and every person to search himself for what is right and then continue to search others for what is right and somehow improvise a right and wrong day by day until a certainty begins to grow upon which you can plan and live a life. Yet even then you will not escape doubt (which means, face it, you cannot obtain peace). 
The whole, depressing business is summed up by a sign carried by some anti-war demonstrators last year; "Notre Dame men think ·what you are doing." ' And like the man said, that means all of you. 


Panthers fight police 
LOS ANGELES (UPI)-A handful of Black Panthers used hand grenades and automatic rifles to hold off 300 policemen for five hours yesterday before surrendering. 
Police used dynamite, tear gas and rifles to besiege a group of ll Panthers holed up in their two story headquarters near Watts. 
The defenders, barricaded be­hind sand bags and wearing gas masks and bullet proof vests, lobbed hand grenades and tossed back police tear gas canisters as 
In connection with Euro­job 

Regional director will be here to discuss the pro­gram 
TUES. 9 DEC. 7:30 103 O'SHAG 

quickly as they were fired into the building. 
Three police officers were wounded during the battle, which began at dawn and ended at late morn~ng when one of the defenders talked to police and the rest came out of the building one by one. 
Two of the police officers were wounded when they at­tempted to enter the store-front building in the pre-dawn raid. One was in serious condition . 
Fourteen suspects were taken into custody at the two homes, but at the headquarters the Pan­thers barricaded themselves in­side, behind sand bags and ignor­ed orders to come out. 
For SMC Girls: From those who brought you Back Seat Boogie comes another Holiday Special. HOW TO HOLD YOU H LIQUORI 
Call 283·1026; 
Ask for JoJo, Pruss, 
Dr. B. or ucrusher" 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester exce11t vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class posta~te 
. paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 

l
PAGE 3

TUESDAY, o::CEMBER \1969 ~

7NB O&r!".Rfl!"a 

I 
Chairman announces Grand Prix plans 
by Glen Corso 
0 bserver News Editor 
Mike Giannone, chairman of the 1970 Grand Prix, announced tentative plans for the event in an interview yesterday. The event this year will encompass a full week of events, while the race will be held on the same weekend as a concert, and the annual proms. 
While the race itself is scheduled to be held May 2, the time trials will start the Sunday before, April 26, and run throughout the week. 
The race this year will be for a definite number of laps, rather than a time race as was held last year. Giannone said this was due to the fact that having a definite number of laps is a "more inter­esting race" than was held last year. Trophies, and various cash prizes will be presented at the concert on Saturday night. 
Grand Prix lost $2500 last year. Giannone attributed this to "confusion because of the first year of operation," and was con­fident that it would not be repeated. 
"We saw a lot of mistakes that cooperate agins," he said. the next Grand Prix. In addition they made last year, and we Giannone stressed that "the smaller trophies will be given to won't repeat them. We think it whole thing from now to the the winning individual team will be a success because we'II be weekend is communication. We members. building it up all week long." have to generate a good response "I want to have a Grand Prix 
Giannone also cited the first to Grand Prix." Queen, along the lines of the year expenses that were encoun­The race will be held in the Homecoming Queen," Giannone tered such as the observation Convocation Center Parking lot, said. The queen would be voted tower, and the snow fence, where it was held last year. The on by the students, and she which will not have to be bought PA system, Giannone comment­would preside over Grand Prix again this year. ed, would be improved. events for the weekend. This, 
"About 90'fr, of the halls still With regards to trophies, though, is not final. have their carts. There are a few Giannone said that the traveling Giannone said that any stu­isolated halls that we are having trophy awarded to last year's dents interested in working on trouble with, but for the most winning team would be given to GP should contact him as soon part the halls will be willing to this year's winner to hold until as possible. 



Jazz Festival offers big bands 
The Contemporary Jazz This year, unlike last, there John Buchanan. Tickets will be Festival will be offering nine big will be no award for the best sold for the individual prefor­bands, and an equal number of over all group. According to mances, or an all-sessions card to combos, for it's weekend, March Anne Henrichs, head of the CJ F. cover all events. 

19, 20, and 21. The change was made because Thursday night, March 19, at "Many of the band members and 
Happy Birthday

8:00 in the Center for directors didn't like it. They Continuing Education, to lead really didn't like the competi­
Harold

off a Symposium Panel of judges tion aspect of it. They felt that will discuss an aspect of jazz. it stiffled their creativ!tY." The tentative emmbership A questionaire was sent out to includes Dan Morgenstern, 12 former judges and band direc­
the Monday night staff 

editor of "Downbeat," Ernie tors asking them how they felt 
about the award. "II out of 12'__J____________----I
Wilkins a well known composer 
and arranger, Dan Ellis a trum­were in favor of eliminating it, Pittsburgh Club peter, J.J. Johnson, and Archie so we did," she said. Shepp. Miss Henrichs was only able Meeflng 
Friday and Saturday night to name three bands who would will feature two jazz sessions at probably appear at the festival; Tues. Night 
I :30 and 7:30. With the excep­The University of Illinois Band, 
tion of the Saturday night ses­with John Garvey directing; The 7:30 2D LaFortune sion, all 18 bands will play. The Memphis State Band, with Tom judges will choose 6 finalists Ferguson directing; and the 
Final Bus Sign-ups 

who will play before the special North Texas State Band, with 
Mardi Gras 

Saturday night session. Several Leon Breeden directing. 
Trip to Duque:me

individual awards will be given The assistant chairman of the 
Basketball Game 

by the judges. festival are Nick Talarico and 
MARDI GRAS '70 


RAFFLE PACKETS Wll.l. BE DISTRIBUTED TODAY 
AND TOMORROW 
-IF YOU DON'T RECEIVE IT BY THURSDAY, 

CAI.I. 3700. 
ATTN. OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS YOUR PACKETS ARE AVAILABLE IN THE SOCIAL COMMISSION OFFICE 0 N THE 4th FLOOR LAFORTUNE AFTER 2:30 EVERY DAY 

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1969
PAGE 4 
7118 OBSERVER. 






N D schedule rated second toughest 
by Mike Pavlin Observer Sports Editor Coaches just wouldn't be coaches if they didn't complain. Sometimes they're worried about all the sophomores they've got to start, sometimes the alumni drive them to distraction, and other times referees seem to have left their ey~s in the locker room along with their overcoats. But mostly coaches complain 
about  schedules.  Maybe they'll  
point  to  the  number of major  
teams  and  wail  in  anguish,  or  

they'll find several teams coming off mediocre seasons with loads of returning lettermen, or they'll groan because they play tradi­tional rivals away from home, or they'll cringe when they see that a former varsity player, now coach at some obscure college up in the mountains who got on the sche­dule as a "favor" happens to have three transfers who were JC All­Americans. 
Notre Dame head basketball coach Johnny Dee is no different; he calls his schedule one of the toughest in the country. Sound familiar? Maybe so. But Dee is right this year and he can prove it. 
At Wright State University in Dayton, Ohio, Gordon L. Wise, Assistant Professor of Marketing, has come up with what he calls the "Pre-Season Basketball Issue of 'Suicide Schedules vs. Push­over Schedules' (Who Plays 'Em??)." Professor Wise presents with objective mathematical anal­ysis and plenty of tongue-in­cheek humor his system of rating the schedules of 211 basketball teams. 
He begins by ranking the teams by use of "A composite of all pre-season ratings and rankings of team strength." This composite yields 46 "rated" teams. Profes­sor Wise then gives each team a "power point" value. From this basic work, he extends the ratings to over 300 teams based on relative strengths within con­ferences. 
With regard to schedules, the professor came up with an "aver­age power point value" for each team's schedule. Tournaments posed a special problem: "In the 
cases of schedules which involved tournaments ... the number of 'Power Points' to be awarded to the teams' schedule was found by determining the mathematical probability of that team's en­countering each of the other teams in the tournament." Also points were added for away games, those usually being tougher than contests at home. 
And what did Professor Wise find? Well, when I said Johnny Dee was right about his schedule, I wasn't fooling. The Irish have the nation's second hardest sche­dule, right behind Michigan. Wake Forest is third (playing in the tough Atlantic Coast Confer­ence), West Virginia is fourth, and Duke is fifth. 
In his own rating system, Prof­essor Wise has Notre Dame tenth. He says, "The Irish are tangling with their toughest schedule ever (they rarely play an easy one). Their card . . . contains eight games against teams rated in the 'Top Twenty' plus the probabil­ity of a meeting with No. l rated South Carolina in the Sugar Bowl 
tourney." 
The Irish have been moving up on the list for the last few years. They were eighth in '67-'68 and fifth in '68-'69. Of those eight Top Twenty teams, four (UCLA, Kentucky, Marquette, and Duquesne) are rated in the Top Ten, and South Carolina is first. The Irish play West Virginia in the opening round of the Sugar Bowl Tournament while South Caro­lina takes on New Mexico. 
Playing with the eighth and fifth toughest schedules the past two years, NO has performed exceptionally well. The Irish have a two-year composite of 41-16, for a percentage of .719. In the 
Below are the top 25 teams and their schedule ratings. 
Team Schedule Rank School Rank 
1. South Carolina 19 2. Kentucky 40 3. Purdue 99 4. UCLA 70 5. Davidson 50 
6. 
New Mexico State 135 

7. 
Santa Clara 135 8. Marquette 120 9. Duquesne 66 


10. Notre Dame 2 11. Villanova 55 12. Kansas 31 
13. St. John's 41 14. Colorado 102 15. Duke 5 
16. 
North Carolina 20 

17. 
Utah State 49 

18. 
Western Kentucky 130 19. Dayton 29 20. Cincinnati 98 



SMC to elect Prince 
As an added attraction to this year's first annual McCandless Hall Christmas party, a Mister Saint Mary's will be selected to reign over the Dec. 14 festivities. 
The social steering committee laid down the stipulation that all entrants in the competition must be male students from the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. Contes­tants must submit entries con­sisting of a full-length photo and vital statistics (G.P.A., con­fidential financial report) to Box 

GET THIS ONE FOR THE GIPPERI 
Good luck from Penn State 
591 or 677 by midnight Thurs. Dec. II. 

Screeners for the contest will be Cindy Ringholz, Carol Cusick, Julie Dwyer, Dee Bacon, Sandy Griffin, and Ruthie Lyons. They will select finalists solely on the basis of the infor­mation submitted. Voting will be in the dining hall Friday at lunch, and the winner will be notified that evening. 
In addition to holding the title of Mr. Saint Mary's, the Du Lac Prince will receive an all expense paid round trip on the shuttle bus, an escort for the evening, all the eggnog he can. hold, and the option to repre­sent Saint Mary's at the Cotton Bowl, since the girls themselves cannot attend. 
Earlier this week, the steering committee expressed the hope that Mr. Saint Mary's would be the embodyment of the Saint Mary's Christmas Spirit. 
Are you interested in improving your phone service ? 
If you have a problem wit.h your ·phone call The Ombudsman. Service or the operator and make sure your name and num&er is recorded 


The Ombudsman Service Mon. -Fri. 1:00-2:30 Mon. -Thurs. 6:30 -7:30 
last 38 games, NO has won 30 in overtime, Kentucky, Illinois, (.789) including a 3-l NIT record Houston, and Miami (Ohio) in two years ago. Even more impres­last year's NCAA Regional. Any sive, the trish have won 20 of time a squad breaks even on the their last 25 AWAY games (80%). road, they can consider them­Those five losses (since Feb. 17, selves lucky. To win 80% is truly 1968) were to Dayton in the NIT remarkable. 

JIM MURRAY 



The Redskin's No. 1 defense 

Most owners of professional football teams, indeed professional sports teams of all kinds, have little truck with the Constitution of the United States unless it be to keep it from falling into the hands of their draft choices. 
For Edward Bennett Williams, the Constitution is a tool he carries around like a plumber does a wrench, a bricklayer a trowel, or a burglar a passkey. 
He can fix anything with it. The nice thing about it is, he can carry it around in his head. Eddie comes into a courtroom traveling light-a preamble, seve! articles, and 25 amendments. The part of the tool that gets the most work is the first l0 amendments, the Bill of Rights. 
Eddie Williams is a Hartford-born, Holy Cross-and-Georgetown Law School-educated barrister whose passion for the law has led him to defend: 1.) Joe McCarthy; 2.) Jimmy Hoffa; 3.) Adam Clayton Powell; 4.) Frank Costello; 5.) a Russian spy; 6.) Confidential Magazine; 7.) The Catholic Church; 8.) Motion picture writers accused of being Communists. 
He has attacked, 1.) Wire tapping; 2.) the Post Office; 3.) Literary censorship; 4.) the death penalty; 5.) the Congress of the United States. 
"I am only implementing 1791 law," he has said. When he was sought to defend Frank Costello, it was Costello, then being kicked out of the country as one of the most undesirable elements ever to enter it, who demurred on the grounds that Williams was a "Fascist" who "defended Joe McCarthy." When he defended a Russian, he was a "Com-symp," "duped" "pinko." When he defended Hoffa, he got it from both sides. He left a lucrative practice defending Transit Corporations against civil suits when he found out that procedures 

of  defense,  taken  for  granted  in  corporate  matters  where  mere  
money  was at stake,  were  forfeit in criminal  matters  where  a life  
might be at stake-certainly a liberty.  

When he acquired the Washington Redskins there were those in Washington who said it was his natural sympathy for one caught committing crime in public. It was pointed out that the Redskins were without any defense, either, the Scottsboro Boys of football. 
"Eddie," they said in the better law offices, "will get them 1-to-10." Still others believed that the Redskins' Constitutional rights of free assembly were being denied, particularly by the Baltimore Colts. "Only a natural concern for the defenseless" summed other sources. "Maybe he thinks he can win the NFL by injunction," others gagged. 
Others felt it was too bad Eddie's briefs and arguments had seriously crimped Congress' right of indiscriminate investigation, because they thought the Redskins were a proper subject for hearings before a committee on standards. When they heard Eddie was looking for a coach, they proposed Ralph Nader. 
What a 111an with a passion for individual liberty and ingrain human rights is doing in the last bastion of totalitarianism professional sports, proves again there is no form on Edward Bennet Williams. Professional sports is an oligarchy, the last such, as Tory as Dickens' England. A football player waives his rights when he pulls ~n his shoulder pads. The law of football is like the red queens, "the execution first, the trial afterward." Players are not shipped around in sealed cars, but they are selected by lot off an auction block. The servitude, of course, is voluntary. The individual can, of course, choose to starve. 
Edward Bennett Williams did, to be sure, secure adequate counsel for his defendants. Vince Lombardi is one of the ablest cross-examiners and trial lawyers in football. Previous counsel, Otto Graham, was good at presenting his case but weak at finding holes in the opposition. Lombardi also is better at emotional summations, and Eddie can be presumed to keep him from hitting the help. 
Of course, as George Wallace says, you can't rush these things, but the Redskins appear to be well on the road to equality on the field. They may even become The Establishment. But, what I'm waiting for is the day a Redskins' No I draft choice, a badly needed quarterback, is drafted, and says, "I don't want to play in Washington, I want to play in San Diego," and Eddie will pack up his torts and briefs and writs, and take a plane out to defend his right to do so. 

~··································································· 
. -..­
. .
• .•
. . 
: :
-.
-:-. = 



