---~~-----~-­
~----~---l 

on the inside... 
THE WORLD TODAY
I 
A "new nun" gets busted in a hippie commune, page 6. SDS exiled to Sweden, page 2. French Demonstrate Against Polley The Worst Ten Records of 1968, page 5 PARIS (UPI) Dozens of young pro Israeli youths demonstrated Irish outhoop Butler, page 8 Thursday night outside a Paris radio station where Foreign Minister Michel Dcbre was broadcasting a defense of President Charles de 
Three Vietnam veterans join Army ROTC Staff, page 2 

Gaulle's arms embargo on Israel. 
Debre said De Gaulle's Middle East policy ,conforms to the interest of France" and pointedly challenged growing domestic opposition to the embargo by asking "if the French do not think first oif their country, what will it do for them?" 
The demonstrators gathered on the sidewalk outside tlae privately owned radio station, Europe Nomber One, just off the Champs Elysees, waving banners expressing their solidarity with Israel. 
But Debre seemed more concerned with the criticism of f>e Gaulle by the French press, some of the sharpest the 79 year old president has had to put up with in his 10 years in power. 
The country's most influential newspaper, Le Monde, said Thursday that the 79 year old French president imposed the embargo on Israel because of "personal dislikes" and expressed the hope that France "will not have to pay too dearly for the abuses of one man rule." 
Debre said in the radio interview that French Middle East policy recognized Israel's right to exist, to security and to normal 


E 



OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and St. MIU)' '.r Collqe Commulflty 
VOL. Ill, No . .6& ~i FRIDAY, JANUARY 10, 1969 
guarantees of international rights, but also provided for development 
Christmas Vacation a Field Da~ 
of good relations with the Arab world. 


Czech Union Considers General Strike 
Nine Halls Hit by Robbers 
PRAGUE (UPI) The powerful Czech meal workers' union pass key was used to enter the Hall before Christmas. 
Thieves enjoyed a field day on

Thursday night served notice that it will not accept unquestioningly 
rooms. Campus Security

the replacement of parliament Chairman Josef Smrkovsky by the Notre Dame campus lately as Prefect Skip Rahaim
Director Arthur Pears echoed

Deputy Premier Peter Colotka. students returning from examined possible follow-up
this statement and said he
Christmas vacation reported loss

A union plenary session proposed tha~ Smrkovsky and Colotka measures by the school. "More
anticipated no changes in

should be named dual candidates, the winner to be decided by of televisions, stereo systems, guards should be hired for the
administration policy regarding

assembly vote. clothing, and money, including vacation periods, with one guardpass keys or security operations. 
The national party Presidium Tuesday named 44 year old checkbooks. stationed in every hall. Cruising
:-Ie had no recommendations

Colotka, a middle of the road Slovak with liberal leanings, as its Initial reports from the Notre across the campus in a station
regarding reimbursment of the

choice for the key post. Dame security offices were wagon is an inefficient way ofstudent victims for their losses.
sparce. Nine complaints have

The 900,000 member union pledged tghat if their proposal "is maintaining security, as these
Sergeant Nova reported that

taken into consideration, in view of the fact that the Slovak been filed and the loss estimated incidents testify. The victims
some of the stolen items were

candidate Colotka is also progressive, we shall not consider a general at$1500. should be given some gesture of
recovered via an anonymous

strike justified." Sources indicate that most of 
good faith by the
telephone call. Some of the

Czechoslovak observers said the announcement could be the robberies are not yet on file administration, in order to
property of victimized Holy

interpreted as a face saving gesture to allow the union to voice with the security department demonstrate concern for the
Cross residents was found
and losses may double or triple

acceptance of Colotka without appearing to betray the Smrkovsky 
individual student in the
beneath sheets on Douglas Road, 

cause. as students file complaints, University community."
behind Moreau Seminary. 
seeking action from the

They said it was doubtful the proposal would be accepted by the Reports that the thieves were
Presidium. administration. 
Members of the University
from South Bend went
Scattered reports came from 
staff were adamant in theirunconfirmed by Sergeant Nova.

Accuses South VIets of Blocking Talks virtually every hall on campus, belief that the school would notNo connections were made
in cl ud ing Morrissey, Dillon,

PARIS (UPI) -North and South Vietnam Thursday exchanged between this recent rash of enter into a theft insurance
Badin, Lyons, Alumni, and

bitter accusations that the other was deliberately blocking the burglaries and the $800. in agreement, a measure proposed
Zahm. Hardest hit, however,

opening of the broadened Vietnam peace conference. furniture stolen from Holy <.:ross by some of the students. 
were Stanford, Keenan, and

Nguyen Thanh Le, Hanoi's chief delegation spokesman, said the Holy Cross Halls. 
South Vietnamese regime of President Nguyen Van Thieu was trying 

Pro-Term to Come to 

to sabotage the conference in order to keep American troops Holy Cross Prefect Fred fighting in South Vietnam. (Skip) Rahaim commented on 
St. Mary's Next Fall

Charging that Saigon was "obstinately opposed to peace" and was the methods used to enter thr education courses and their
"hampering the Paris conference," Le said Saigon "wants the United rooms. "The robbers entered Harry Marnocha, Director of major courses. Previously these
States to prolong its aggressive was so that they continue their life as through the rear door. They Secondary Education at Saint 
lackeys." ransacked one first floor room, Mary's College, announced courses overlapped, making it but concentrated mainly on the yesterday that the Education difficult to completeSirhan Trial Snags over Publicity second and third floor rooms Department will offer seniors requirements for the teacher's 
where locks were broken and who desire a teacher's certificate 
certificate. Marnocha feels that LOS ANGELES (UPI) -The trial of Sirhan B. Sirhan tor the doors jimmied." the Professional Semester will be 
a Professional Semester. The murder of Sen. Robert F. Kennedy Thursday was snarled over In conflict with this statement program will go into effect a major improvement over the ·publicity given to the defendant and to his chief counsel's role in was the reaction of several during the 1969 Fall Semester. old program, because he believes another case. security guards, who claimed The program for the that "student teaching is a full After an eight minute open court session, attorneys adjourned to time job".
that no rooms had been forced Professional Semester was passedchambers to discuss in private a defense motion on news coverage open. Security guard Sergeant by Saint Mary's Teacher The Professional Semester will the defense felt could deny Sirhan a fair trial. It was not disclosed Nova said that the doors to all Education Committee and given be organized into two parts. The whether the motion sought a mistrial because of adverse publicity, :1 rooms on first half of the semester will be
the campus were final approval by the Academic 30-day continuance or a change of venue. checked daily and locked when Affairs Council prior to the devoted to a concentration of 
For the first time since the trial began Tuesday, no members of 
found open. Christmas break. A conflict over education courses. The second Sirhan's family were present in court Thursday. half will be devoted to full time
approval of the program arose The 24-ycar old Jordanian immigrant was serious and unsmiling in While inefficient security student teaching.
earlier this semester "because I contrast to Wednesday when he waved and flashed a big grin several measures could be blamed for 
did not go through the proper

times at his family. · the Holy Cross thefts, an Prerequisites for the
channels", Marnocha said. invitation was extended to Professional Semester include
Rabbit Puts Chicago Man In Stew The entire Professional 
burglars in Stanford and Keenan the completion of thirty hours
Semester will be devoted to CIIICAGO (UPI) -Donald Hargadon was in a stew Thursday and Halls, which were painted over teacher preparation. Seniors may of pre-student teaching the holidays and many of the experience, and fifteen written
no doubt wishes the 40 pound rabbit that attacked him was too. take the Professional Semester Hargadon, a worker at Augustana Hospital, was transporting the rooms left open. The fourth either semester. The semester observations. The completion of rabbit from the hospital's laboratory to the Lincoln Park Zoo when will be offered for eighteen
floor of Stanford was hit Education 170 is also required. 
the attack occurred. He reported the rabbit kicked and scratched particularly bad, where credit hours, and courses in Students wishing to take the checkbooks were stolen and Professional Semester must be
him. other departments will not be 
checks written for several admitted to the Teacher
Hargadon was taken to the hospital's emergency room where he taken during the semester. hundred dollars. Education program, and must
was treated for several scratches. Because of the Professional 
The campus security guards
There wasn't much pain from the cuts or the "rabbit punch", Semester, seniors will not have not have a grade point average appeared to favor the idea that a
Hargadon reported. The only thing really hurt was his pride. to divide their loyalty between below 2.25 on the 4.0 system. 
.... ------------------~--------~~--­
. 
·llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII•IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJII•
. .
. 
. 
.

. .
.

. . 

~ SDS in Exile in Stockholm ~ 

.
.
.
•
. 
E• by Joel Connelly 

A year ago there were less than 20 American deserters in Sweden. Now the number is in excess of 
200. Youth groups throughout Europe, led by the German SDS, arc aiding American servicemen desiring to escape the military. Swedish novelist Sarah Lidman has organized a Swedish Friends of the Deserters to aid the constantly increasing number of deserters. Having seen the support and aid for the deserters, one might ask what the deserters are doing themselves. 
The answer is plenty. The American Deserters Committee was formed so that those in Sweden could continue political work as Americans even while in exile. [t works through the media, publishing a magazine and a newspaper as well as putting out radio broad casts. ADC spokesmen have spoken at universities throughout Sweden and even addressed a meeting of the World Council of Churches. In November a delegation of 12 deserters traveled to Denmark, a NATO nation where the government is under great pressure to accept Americans leaving the armed services. 
To the U.S. serviceman unsure of the War and the 
structure of American society the deserters 
communicate a forceful message: "Desert and join us 
in Sweden! Together we will work to stop the war in 
Vietnam. Together we will support the Black 
liberation movement in America." 

The ADC is constantly at work getting its message 
heard. Its newest activity is Second Front radio, a 
series of tapes made by the deserters and broadcast to 
the troops in Vietnam over Radio Hanoi and 
Liberation Radio. The ADC proudly states "We will 
utilize all means at our disposal to get our message, a 
message of hope, across to the troops." 

The ADC does not stop with broadcasts. Its newspaper, The Second Front, is a blunt account of practices in the military and experiences of the deserters. Writing in the September issue, Terry Whitmore, a purple heart and bronze star winner in Vietnam, stated: 
Extra Student Directories 
AVAILABLE IN STUDENT UNION OFFICES AND OFF-CAMPUS OFFICE 
r------------------------------------------~ 
Chicago Club and Junior Class 
present 



WINDY CITY BANJO BAND 
Played at Last Christ the King Party 

BANJOS & BEER BLAST 
Mishawaka C.C. Jan. 10 8:30-12:30 
Buses:  Circle  7:45  
8:15  
SIVC  8:00  
8:30  

"By some of you I may be labeled as a coward or some sort of 'ism'. Well I'm not an ism and I'm not a coward. It takes more guts and balls to say 'NO! I'm not going', rather than to say 'Yes Sir, I'll go to Vietnam.' I've been there once, and I had to desert! ... Listen to me fellows ... I know what it's like ... WAR IS HELL!" 
The Second Front Review, the deserters' magazine, is more theoretical, although there is still the effort to "tell it like it is." The current issue of Review, among other things, includes a letter from a deserter to his home town paper as well as another Jetter by a deserter to his parents defending his decision to leave the armed forces. The magazine reprints the ADC speech to the World Council of Churches. In this speech, ADC leader Bill Jones eloquently expounded deserter philosophy contending: 
"We the ADC in Sweden have seen clearly our duty faced with the situation of the world today. As members of the US Army we were the prime instruments of the forces of repression and reaction, and we have excised ourselves from this malignant body. We saw our function and refused to carry it out. We answered a higher call of the people of the world who were crying for help from their brutal oppressors." 
The story of the ADC does not end with the group's activities. The group sees itself as an integral part of the American Left with a unique role to play due to the working class background of many of its members plus of course their military experience. The American Deserters Committee is an autonomous chapter of the Students for a Democratic Society and represents Ramparts magazine in Sweden. 
. 
.•
.
• 
: 
Just as the ADC sees itself tied to the American peace and freedom movement, that movement has responded to the deserters. In late October, a delegation led by Harvey Cox of the Harvard Divinity School and famed Chinese scholar Franz Schurmann spoke to a large meeting near Stockholm supporting the cause of the ADC. A statement signed by David Dellinger of the National Mobilization to End the War in Vietnam plus SDS founder Tom Hayden recently commented "The growth and development of the desertion movement in Sweden over the past year has added an important new dimension to the American struggle against this nation's war in Vietnam." 
What lies ahead for the ADC and the deserters in Sweden? For one thing their number is growing, and predictions hold that there will be more than 500 young Americans in Stockholm by the end of this year. The Committee's work is attracting support not only in Sweden but throughout Western Europe. Philosopher Bertrand Russell's statement is typical of many reaching Stockholm: "Deserters from the Armed Forces of the United States deserve the heartfelt and practical support of everyone who is appalled by the cruelty of the war in Vietnam. I hope that the Deserters Committee in Sweden will 
continue to be augmented by ex-servicemen who courageously refuse to have anything further to do with this ugly aggression. All of us in Western Europe who oppose American war aims have a duty to support those who arc helping to bring this barbarism to an end .. .'' 
There can be no doubt of the dedication of those in Stockholm. I would also say their resolve is considerable in its dimensions, although it comes across in an undertone. When I asked Ray Krzeminski what Notre Dame could do to help, he remarked: "You can tell the people something back at Notre Dame. If they want to help me they can form the first agnostic church of St. Thomas the Doubter. Instead of a crucifix they should use a question mark." 

Three Veterans Join AROTC Staff 
Col. John Lavin, Professor of Military Science of the Notre Dame Army ROTC detachment, has announced the addition of three new officers, all Vietnam veterans, to his staff. 
Maj. Joseph R. Mayo, who will be a Sophomore instructor, comes to Notre Dame from Walter Reed Army Hospital, where he spent seven months 
l•lliiiNEWLY REMODELEOIIUII.Iill 
... ,. .·................... . R~VER PARK,
....................) 
MIIHIWUA lVI, at lOth *.'HONI 218 148& 
Tonight at 5:25, 8:35 
Sat-Sunat 2:15, 5:25,8:35 
Mon thru Thurs at 7:30 only 
...REGULAR PRICES 
recovering from wounds received during his third tour in the war zone. 
Maj. Mayo was the commander of a rifle company in the 25th Infantry Division ncar Tay Ninh when he was wounded. 
A 1954 enlistee in the Army, Maj. Mayo won an appointment to West Point in 1957. After graduating from the Academy in 1961, his first assignment was in Korea. 
After this he attended Special Forces School and then traveled to Southeast Asia for his first combat tour, in a camp in the Mekong Delta, where he spent 


six months. Maj. Mayo's second 

Young Men $2.00 per hour 
To work in verification department Evenings: 5-8:30. No experience necessary. ~Must be neat and able to follow instructions. Car required. For interview call Mr. lark. 233-8011. 
tour 
lasted one year. He was assigned 
to another Special Forces camp 
near Bian Hoa. 
Maj. Mayo is married and has a daughter, 3. 
Capt. Robert G. Hasty, 27, has just completed the one-year course at the Advanced Artillery Officer's School, at Fort Sill, Okla. 
A I963 graduate of the ROTC program at the University of Richmond, Capt. Hasty's first assignment was wjth the !99th Brigade at Fort Benning, Georgia. The !99th was rotated to the war zone, and Capt. Hasty spent one year with them commanding a 105mm Howitzer battery, about 30 miles south of Saigon. 
Capt. Hasty is also married and has two children, a daughter 4, and a son 3; 
Capt. Bruce Knowles, 24, has just returned from a tour with the Ist Brigade of the 10Ist Airborne Division near Hue. 
A 1966 graduate of Western Maryland College, in Westminster, Capt. Knowles' first assignment was in Germany, where he was stationed until Nov. of 1967. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 10,1969 


Frisco State Erupts Again; Four Arrested 

SAN FRANCISCO (UPI)­with two Doberman Pinschers strike and picketing." 18,000 students have been on tor of internal affairs who re­p o I ice and student strikers on leashes. Police moved against The union represents about strike for several weeks. 
cently was named to a student clashed yesterday at San Francis­the pickets after warning the 300 of the I,300 faculty mem­For beleaugered San Francis­disciplinary post. Police des­
co State College after union strikers that they were milling bers at San Francisco State co State, the day began with two teachers rejoined their ranks in rather than marching in an or­where hardcore groups repre­firebombs hurled at the home of cribed the bombs as highly so­
derly fashion. phisticated devices. 
defiance of a court order. senting a few hundred of the Edward Duerr, campus coordina-At least four students were "We also considered the dogs 
arrested as contempt citations as being out of control," said an 
Redican Joins Air Force Staff Here
were readied for picketing mem­officer. bers of the American Federation The animals were quickly 
program. Immediately after his later transferred to Weisbadenof Teachers. The union went on stunned with dog repellant and Col. Victor Ferrari, Profess or 
graduation from navigator Germany.

strike three days ago. their owner, John Cleveland, was of Air Force Aerospace Studies training, Maj. Redican was While in Germany, Maj.
The melee followed the fire­hauled to a patrol wagon. Two at Notre Dame, has announced assigned to the !99th Air Redican received his Master'sbombing three blocks away of students who attempted to free the addition of Maj. Edmund C. 
Fefueling Squadron, at Pease degree in Education from thethe home of an administrator in Cleveland from the officers also Redican to his staff as Freshman AFB, New Hampshire, where he University of Southerncharge of student discipline, the were arrested. instructor. 
flew KC-97 tankers. California's European Division.
arrest of a youth for disrupting a The crowd surged into the A senior navigator, Maj. 
After four years in thisclassroom, detonation of stink intersection at the main campus Redican's previous assignment assingment, Maj. Redican left Adler Herebombs in the library and a mass entrance. A few rocks and bot­was at Tan Son Nhut Airbase, active duty and joined the Newmeeting of UFT teachers. tles were heaved at the police as near Saigon, where he flew Hampshire Air Guard, the 133rd Mortimer J. Adler, of theThe striking teachers returned 200 officers, some mounted on C-123 aircraft with the 19th 

Air Transport Group. Institute of Philosophical
to the picket line singing "Solid­horses, cleared the street. Special Operations Squadron. 
Recalled to active duty in Research, will give his first in aarity Forever." The militant The AFT teachers abandoned Maj. Redican is a 1956 1961 during the Berlin Crisis, series of lectures this afternoonstudents cheered and cried, "On the picket lines for a closed graduate of the College of the Maj. Redican was transferred to at 4: 15 in St. Mary's Littlestrike, close it down." The meeting in which a spokesman Holy Cross, in Worcester, Maguire AFB, New Jersey where Theater. His talk is entitledpicket ranks rose to several hun­said only that "by unanimous Massachusetts, where he was a he was assigned to the 38th Air "How can I make a good life for dred, including a Negro youth vote we decided to continue the member of their AFROTC Transport Squadron. He was myself." 
THE STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION (ANNOUNCING) NOTRE DAME'S ONLY, TRULY GREAT SEMI-FORMAL DANCE 
THE MARDI GRAS BALL 
Friday, February 14 Convocation Center Concourse (FREE PARKING) 




THE LOTTERY 
TO RANDOMLY SEGREGATE THE WINNERS FROM THE LOSERS BY COMPUTER WILL BE HELD 
from 7-9PM
MONDAY & TUESDAY (Jan. 13 & 14) 
FIESTA LOUNGE (2nd FLOOR) OF THE STUDENT CENTER 


THE ENTERTAINMENT 
DANCE TO BIG NAME RHYTHM AND BLUES SOUNDS 
',! 
".: ,, 
1.,., 'I 

THE KEN MORRIS ORCHESTRA 
MORE INFORMATION SUNDAY 
----.., .. ____

---···----­





THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief 
Mary Michael Farnam, Senior Editor Paul Schroeder, Executive Editor Don Holliday, Managing Editor Chris Wolfe, Michael Patrick O'Connor, Don Hynes, Tom Ehrbar, Joel Connelly, Tim O'Mellia Associate Editors Ted Price, News Editor David Stauffer, Assistant News Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
L---------~~-------------------~--------------------------~ 
The Senseless Feud 
Student Government has accomplished more in the past year under Richard Rossie than any other administration in recent history. The formation of the Student Life Council, the development of the judicial code, the revision of the Student Manual, all have come about with no small assistance and encouragement from Rossie. 
The Student Union, too, under Richard Rem busch has developed into a commendable service to the students. The Social Commission may finish in the black for the first time in its history and the Academic Commission offers an excellent selection of speakers and conferences even in this non-political year. A large part of the Union's success has been due to the organizational abilities of Rembusch and his excellent vice president Bill Wade. 
But despite their previous heroics Rossie and Rembusch insist upon breaking down the confidence they have built in the students, faculty and administration for their organizations by involving themselves in a personal clash disguised as a "constitutional crisis". The whole thing seems pretty ridiculous when you remember that it all started over a $60 car rental bill incurred by a Union group attending a leadership conference without specific approval from the Student Body President. 
As a result a bill will be proposed to the Student Senate which will subordinate the 


Our Evaluation 
The Scholastic's "Teacher-course Evaluation Booklet," publisher earlier this week, is the clearest example to rlate of students actively invobed in the government of the university. It is abo the first time this year that The Scholastic has succeeded in bringing before the entire university community thoughts and comments that are at the same time both germain to this vital area of academic interest and constructive in their criticisn1. The problems that always beset such efforts in any area, such as competence and breadth of vision, have been overcome. The field of academics still, for better or worse, characterizes the student; his right to evaluate a teacher, that is, to state clearly whether he has learned with that teacher, is unquestionable. 
The efforl was considerable in the Notre Dame section of the booklet and William C u lien and his staff deserve to be congratulated for their efforts, as does John Hickey for his foresight in handing the job over to them. The disappointing St. Mary's section blights the attempt, in that the Co-Ex program--always far from flourishing-will suffer still more undeserved blows due to negligent coverage. The one course evaluated in the SMC Art Department, for example, is a freshman course which no one at Notre Dame could take; but the courses in serigraphy or art history' which are good 
Union President to the Student Body President finally and without question. Rossie feels that as "the highest elected representative" of the Notre Dame student body he should have dominion over the Union. Obviously, Rembusch sees Union autonomy as a crucial prerequisite for a well-functioning organization. Both claim they are acting in the students' interest. Bot_h, in fact, are acting only in light of their own personal prejudices. 
The petty bickering of the two student !eaders severely diminishes the responsible Image that Student Government has built. We feel that if Rossie and Rembusch honestly have the students' interest at heart then they will overlook their own personal 
differences and begin functioning as responsible administrators. 
The constitution certainly needs no amending when the problem lies not in that document, but in the personal bias' of the people involved. The present constitution has served adequately to this point and there is no reason to believe that it will not now. 
We submit that if Rossie and Rembusch sit down calmly together, consider the students' first and their own personalities second, that a satisfactory solution can be easily reached. Perhaps today's Union Board of Directors meeting will soften the disagreement and resolve the matter. 
complements to Notre Dame's offerings, are omitted. Unfortunately, almost throughout, the St. Mary's section is a mere compilation of instructor's synopses. 
The central usefulness of the boo.k lies in the marshalling of the best students to speak honestly about courses they have taken and teachers they know. Occasionally the booklet lapses in the "facile. assumption that a course is either good or bad, rather than good or bad for different students, who inevitably have different interests. When the idea of servtcmg a diverse student body is hrgotten, then evaluations come out in sl1ades of undergraduate cynicism. But those cc;ses are rare. The main problem lies in the book's incompleteness. The neglect of C'Jileges other than Arts and Letters is unfortunate but understandable; a first effort and limitations of time and money made a complete survey impossible. 
The effort is finally an impressive one because it is the first time that student involvement has been put in a meaningful form in The Scholastic itself; the lofty rhetoric is gone, at least temporarily, and in its place is something that is, bluntly, useful. We urge The Scholastic staff to enlarge the effort at course and teacher evaluation and strive to bring the same quality of work into their regular issues as they have in this one. 
Y.!~!~.!.~.~~:.J.~.~1...~~~.:;;.........n•••• 
This is now the year of Our Lord, 1969. Many conflicts and crises faced our world in the last year, and many seem to be heading for fruition in the near future. One of the reasons for this is that we are trying to answer the problems of today with the answers of the past, with a narrow and antiquated vision. 
The problem of distribution of wealth is still being faced only in terms of liberal socialism and conservative capitalism, yet neither of these systems will ameliorate the situation today. Unions demand more pay, and management responds to their demands with higher salaries ·and corresponding price hikes. Racial minorities are demanding jobs and increases in welfare, etc. The incoming federal government counters by advocating black capitalism and further techinical training. Ne~ther the questions being asked nor the answers which are provided face the fact that the worker is becoming obsolete. Because of the increasingly automated nature of industry, and the potential automation has, the worker is becoming unnecessary. What will be the function of man in a society that does not require his work? What will be the structure of the economy in which people are not producers but only consumers? 
The diplomacy of the major powers are reflections of Metternich in different costume. Weeks are spent in Paris quibbling over seating arrangements, and yet we have scientifically advanced communications to the point where television shows are broadcast trans-oceanically in an instant. The incoming government in Washi~gton favors an increase in military strength, while right now Amenca and the Soviet Union have enough nuclear power to over kill the world six times. People continue to think in terms of ?ationalism, an~ continue to build walls. The UN is consistently Ignored, and Without a sense of world community, considering the weapons at hand, there soon might be no world at all. 
~ur sense of national priorities in America has put three men in orbi~ aroun? ~he mo_on at an expence of billions of dollars, yet medical societies dedicated to the prevention and cure of terminal di~eases s_till must peddle door to door for nickles and dimes. VIetnam IS certainly a horrible war, yet it has become the chief concern of _a great segment of today's college student, while the ?verp~pulatmg_ ~or~d continues the process of peopling and starving Itself mto anmhiiation. Where is the direction and depth of vision? 
Copernicus taught us many years ago that the sun was the center of the universe, ~nd we believe that geographically, yet psychologically, politically, philosophically, and religiously the earth is still the center of the universe, and man is the center of the world. The only quality which supplies a valid reason for individuating ourselves is the potential for creative thinking, and that seems to be the one power that is being ignored and neglected into obsolescence. Man is self-centering himself into a closed and destructive vision of his civilization. Perhaps we might realize that man is only one animal among many animals, on a small planet among nine planets, orbiting aro~nd a_ star among many stars, in a galaxy among many galaxies, in the mfimty of space. If God had the omniscience to create all that is it seems probable that the high point of his career wasn't th~ creation of the homo sapien; at lease not a species which cannot see 
beyond today. 


r------------------------~-------------------------------------------------­
A Few of My Favorite Things 

By Bill Thieman 

I spent New Year's Day, 1969, like every other New Year's Day, getting up tremendously late and loafing around the house all day, listening half-heartedly to the local bubble-gum stations playing the big hits of the year gone by. Somehow these lists are always disappointing (to everyone, strangely enough), but this year's was incredible. In vain I sought a top-song list that even half suited me. Obviously the infallible sources or requests, record sales, and juke-box plays were useless. So I consulted the only other infallible source I know of-my own taste-and here is the resulting list of the Big Ones of 1968, albums and singles. This is it, gang, the Cream of the Crop, the Groovy Gravy, the Super-Sounds of last year. And, in massive retaliation to the Top 40 stations, I have included a list of the Bottom Ten-the worst singles of 1968. Finally, taking a comprehensive poll of myself, I came up with the First and Last Annual "Bummer of the Year" Awards for 1968. 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
111111111111111&111111111~111111111
Tom Ehrbar 

Dixieland 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~l~llllllllllllllllllllo 
The raging struggle for campus power took a severe twist yesterday when a small but mysterious note was uncovered somewhere in the labrynth of La Fortune. The note read: Dear Honest Rich, 
As we have long advocated a complete overthrow of the charlatan campus establishment ie. the Student Union, and now that you have come into confrontation with that very organization, the time has come for unity! 
Our plan is simply this. We offer you our unwaverinr allegiance and aid in vigorous rebellion against the soon-to-be-defunct Student Union. 
The next move is yours. We will be awaiting a communique in our campus post office box. And remember: save your Dixie cups, the South will rise again. May we remain sincerely 
in your service, 
!he S!udent Confederacy 
(Some quote by Patrick Henry was scribbled on the bottom.) 
The political implications of ~uch a collusion arc enormous. The Student Confederacy, you see, is no ordinary conspiracy such as the SDS or the Young Republicans arc inciting. And since the Confederacy has no leadership, no organization, and no plan of action they arc somewhat difficult to fend off, let alone describe. 
Yet  this  clandestine  clan  forms  a  vast  
underground  network,  which  through  subtle  
manuevcrings,  has  imposed  a  chilling  presence  

across the campus. Over the past few months the record speaks for itself;l as Confederates have popped up, very discreetly, yet significantly, in numerous examples of political opportunism. 
Their basic intent actually is a serious one, as they suspiciously eye the organizational formality, unimaginative entertainment, and required fees of the Student Union. The Confederacy is hoping to instead foskr a more informal, spontaneous type of diversions involving St. Mary's as well as Notre Dame students in non-date situations. 
Early this fall the rebels rented their own bus and ventured off on a Magical Mystery Tour of the South Bend area scooting about as they pleased and dropping in unexpectantly on a few friends. A quick visit was even made to the famous giant slides of Mishawaka. 
Then there was the Washington Hall Ghost Hunt, in which several Confederates spent the night with the supposed Ghost of George Gipp. To this day, all still swear that something very 
unnatural roams the corridors of Washlngton. A 
return trip lies in the near future. 
A unique Halloween Party was the big event of October with free fermented cider filling the dixie cups. The group enacted a realistic battle scene 
from the legendry of the Civil War. (The action was Monotored to Confederacy headquarters.) 
In the spirit of the Great Pumpkin Race, which spread through the campus during this same time, the student rebels scurried across Indiana pumpkin patches in search of orange beauties. And representatives were there for .the weigh-in and awards. As a matter of history, the Confederacy pumpkin won the title "World's Smallest Pumpkin." "Gourd-on" topped the scales at slightly less than two ounces. A spokesman for the Confederacy said "It was a good pumpkin but not a great pumpkin." 
Finally, in the dreary days of November, the rebels sponsored a "Cow Chase at OK Corral." They tried to bring the rebellion to grass roots level by raiding the SMC Boviary. The festivities were dampened a bit by the fact that one of the participants was caught unexpectantly by the local police. 
The days ahead should be even more promising. 
Mardi Gras will bring one of the most unusual booths in school history, "John Wilkes' Booth." The scheme is to gather certain popular personalities on campus (i.e. Dean of Students Father Riehle, Food Director Mr. Mehall, Chris Wolfe, Chern. prof. Emil T. Hoffman, Joel Connelly) and to sell pies so students can take aim at them. Permission has not been granted within Stepan Center, but some arrangements may be made. The profits would all be turned over to charity. A taffy pull and a Southern Comfort snowball fight are also scheduled. 
Soon also, the Confederacy will borrow cafe­teria trays and take to the hills with a sleddin party. The theme is "tray bein." 
And as a final note, the rebels intend to run a mock candidate for Student Body President this year. John Reb is likely to get the nod. 

The whole notion of a Confederacy is of course a joke-and the rebels don't really take themselves all that seriously, although you'd never believe it after listening to them. 
According to their pledge, the Confederacy hopes to keep the Union on the run and maybe even force a few Northerners to desert to Sweden. 
Top Twenty-Five Singles 
1.(Sitting On) The Dock of the Bay ................•..... Otis Redding 
2. Hey Jude .............................................. Beatles 3.Jumpin' Jack Flash ......................... : . ....• Rolling Stones 4.People Gotta Be Free ..................................... Rascals 5.Sunshine of Your Love ................•................•..Cream 
6.i Heard It Thru the Grapevine .•......•.................Marvin Gaye 7Journey to the Center of Your Mind .................... Amboy Dukes 8.0n the Road Again ......•...........................Canned Heat 9.White Room .........•...................................Cream 
10.1 
Started a Joke .....................; .................Bee Gees 

11. 
Lady Madonna ................................•........ Beatles 12.Valley of the Dolls ...............................Dionne Warwick 13.By the Time I Get To Phoenix ....................... Glen Campbell 14.AII Along the Watchtower ........................... Jimi Hendrix 


15.1 Just Can't Stop Dancin' .............................. Archie Bell 16.Love is Blue .......................................Paul Mauriat 17.Son of a Preacher Man ..............................D. Springfield 18.Since You've Been Gone .......................... Aretha Franklin 9.Fool on the Hill ................................... Sergio Mendez 20.Dance to the Music .............................Sly, Family Stone 21.Down on Me .......................................Big Brother 22.Those Were the Days ............................... Mary Hopkin 23.Goin' up the Country ................................Canned Heat 24.Grazin' in the Grass ..................................H.Masakela 25.Mrs. Robinson ..............................Simon and Garfunkel 
Top Twenty-Five Albums 
1.TheBeatles ............................................ Beatles 2.Wheels of Fire ............•..............................Cream 3.Boogie ............................................Canned Heat 4.History of Otis •........•.......•......•..•..••.•... Otis Redding 5.John W. Harding .......................................•. Dylan 6.Crown of Creation ...................................... Airplane 7.Super Session .......... : . ................ Koopar, Stills, Bloomfield 8.Steppenwolf ........................................Steppenwolf 9.Time-Peace ..........................•...... : .......... Rascals 10.Beggar's Banquet ....................................... Stones 
11.Truth .............................................. Jeff Beck 
12.Forever Changes ......................................•...Love 13.Grape Jam ........................................ Moby Grape 14.Bare Wires .....................................•.. John Mayall 15.Lady Soul ............................................ Aretha 16.Cheap Thrills .......................................Big Brother 17.Undead ............................................... Doors 18.Strange Days ................................. , ......... Doors 19.Greatest Hits .......................................Association 20.Number Three •.....................................Tim Hardin 21.Bookends ..................................Simon and Garfunkel 22.Feliciano .............•..••.•.....•.••..•.....•..Jose Feliciano 23.Wild loloney ...........................•.......•..•.Beach Boys 

24.Wild Flowers  ...................................... Judy Collins  
25.Eiectric Mud  .................. : . ................ Muddy Waters  
Bottom Ten Singles  

1.Harper Valley PTA .........................•......Jeannie C. Riley 2.Yummy, Yummy ................................... Ohio Express 3.Young Girl ........................................ Gary Puckett 4.Lady Will Power ............................•....... Gary Puckett 5.Simple Simon Says ........................1910 Fruit Gum Company 6.Down at Lulu's .....................•.............. Ohio Express 7.You're Lookin' So Good ..................... .'...... Wilson Pickett 8.Horse ............................................. Cliff Nobles 9.Chewy, Chewy ..................................... Ohio Express 10.0uick Joey Small ..................................Singing Circus 
"Bummer of the year" Awards for 1968 
Most Horrendous Male Vocalist: Herb Alpert (whose determined destruction of a good song like "This Guy's In Love With You" wins hands down) 
Most Insidious Female Vocalist: Jeannie C. Riley (who set country music back eons) 
Foulest Instrumental-Vocal Group: The Ohio Express (who walked away with three of the Bottom Ten) 
The Special Glad To sec you're gone please stay that way Award: The Monkces 


..-----------­
PAGE 6 THE OBSERVER FRIDAY, JANUARY 10, 1969 



Student Demonstrations Spread to Brandeis 
State College. 

WALTHAM, MASS (UPI) -refused to disperse. There was through on demands made by In New York City, Queens More than 400 demonstrating no resistance, and many of the At Brandeis University, white the blacks last spring after the College was to reopen Fridan for students tried to joke with students clogged hallways in
students were arrested at San assassination of Dr. Martin final examinations. The campus Fernando Valley State College officers as they were led away. Bernstein Marcus administration Luther King. was quiet Thursday. Officials 
Thursday and a new Dr. Delmar T. Oviatt, the building but did not interrupt Morris Abram, president of closed the school TuesJay for police-student clash hit violence college's acting president, was operations. the university, told newsmen he two days to avoid possible ridden San Francisco State jeered when he appeared among The white students sought did not contemplate immediate violence. 
College. the demonstrators, appealed to amnesty for the black students disciplinary measures against the Dissident Negro and Puerto 
Across the nation at Waltham, them to end the demonstration who Wednesday night took over Negroes but said "amnesty will Rican students were demanding Mass., more than 200 white and offered to meet with protest Ford Hall, a classroom building, end at a time to be determined." complete control over a ghetto students staged a sit-in at leaders. and the university telephone Abram said university officials student aid program at Queens Brandeis University in support At least four students were switch board. The Negroes said were not prepared to "discuss and warned of a possible "long of 65 protesting Negro students arrested in the melee at San Brandeis had failed to follow issues under duress." and bitter struggle." 
Francisco State College, which
who held control of the campus came after union teachers
communications complex to rejoined the strikers' ranks in
protest alleged racist policies. defiance of a court order. 
......................:............fhe Mai/........"""""""'"""'""'' 
The mass arrests at San A spokesman for the
Fernando Valley State College, American Federation of
in Northridge, Calif., came after Teachers AFT said the teachers
the protestants defied a state of voted unanimously at a rally to Editor: re-election would bring about cerned Democrats in Chicago.
emergency order imposed by the continue their strike. Contempt Sen. Eugene McCarthy's sup-reform or he was simply carrying Lowenstein then referred tocollege president. 

citations were readied for the port of Russel Long in the re-out a personal vendetta against Johnson as a "nobody," and said Grim-faced police swept the teachers. cent contest between Long and the brother of the man who had that McCarthy was the "some­campus when the demonstrators 
AFT teachers picketed for the Edward Kennedy for Senate the audacity to oppose him. body" who would defeat that second day at San Jose Calof. Majority Whip should settle once "nobody." 1 
If McCarthy honestly felt that 













,--------------------------.and for all any question con­McCarthy seems to be fast
Kennedy's election would not

cerning McCarthy's perverse approaching the status Lowen­
reform the party, why didn't he

arrogance and pettiness. stein awarded Johnson. I for one 
run for the post himself? Cer­

Personalized 
do not regret it particularly, buttainly one more gallant crusade

McCarthy told Kennedy that I am embarrassed that I ever
wouldn't hurt Sir Bitterroot. 

he could not support him against permitted myself to be taken in

Stationary 
the racist senator from Louisiana As one who once supported by the image makers who so because Kennedy's election McCarthy's campaign against hated Johnson that they could
ND & SMC SEALS 
would not, in his view, have any Lyndon Johnson, I recall well make even Spleen Gene seem a reforming effect on the party. now-Congressman Allard hero. By voting for Long, McCarthy Lowenstein's ''nominating" Truth and Illusion, Gene, 
301 Dillon phone 1777 
was either incredibly stupid speech for McCarthy at the Dec. Truth and Illusion. enough to believe that Long's 2nd, 196 7 Conference for Con-Charles J. Nau Jr. 

Arrest TenatCommune 
NOVATO, Calif. (UPI) -A former Uominican nun who has hip pic commune with a been teaching the children at the




IT'S TIME!! 
population of 25 adults and 25 commune. children was in sorrow Thursday "Good bye, Sister Mary. God after a narcotics raid resulted in bless you," one of the the seizure of an assorted stock youngsters said when she was of drugs and the arrest of 10 taken away. She was known as persons, including a former Qun. Sister Mary Norbert as a nun. 
Don McCoy, 37, a wealthy A force of 26 narcotics agents 

IF YOU WANT TO TEACH 
ex-businessman who heads the swept down on the camp "Chosen Family" community in Wednesday night. They searched the Rancho Oolpali camp north the sprawling main building, of San Francisco, was among eight outhouses and other those arrested. facilities. A pound of 

A FREE UNIVERSITY 
COURSE 
The children wept, threw methamphetamine worth their arms around McCoy and $10,000, hashish valued at $600,

SEND YOUR NAME AND A RESUME 
tugged at the skirts of Cecile seven pounds of marijuana and Korte when the adults were several hundred capsules of LSD 

to: RICK LIBOWITZ 
taken to jail. Miss Korte is a was seized. Agents said they also c/o STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
found a quantity of what was 1------------------, believed to be heroin. FREE U.: AN UNEQUAL OPPORTUNITY 
McCoy was washing dishes Available in every hall on 
when the agents arrived. He campus 
admitted having marijuana in his possession, saying, "it belongs to God, but I've been smoking it." 
Stewart Sandwich Service 
Simeris 
Open to serve ND students with beer, liquor, & meals. 


WANNA MAKE 
925 Blaine 
232-2625 
You must be 21

about $3.00 per hr.? 
and show your I.D.'s 

HELD OVER 3RDWEE 
Open Daily 6:45 

MUST HAVE CAR 
Sunday 12:45 

CALL 7471 
Plus "ROWAN &MARTIN AT THE MOVIES" 


------------------------------------------, 


Student Union Academic Commission Presents 

... ., . 
February 6-10, 1969 
Featuring: 

Allen Ginsberg 
Judge Norman Eiger Chief Chicago Justice dealing with pornography. 
Elmer Gertz defense attorney for Henry Miller's Tropic of Cancer. 
Gerard Malanga poetry reading. 
Raymond Gauer National Executive Secretary of the Citizens for Decent Literature. 
J.J. Clancey Legal Counsel for Citizens for Decent Literature. 
and 


Richard McGuinness Contemporary Art Exhibit 
film critic for the Village Voice. presenting original pieces by: presenting films by: 
Tom Wesselman Andy Warhol Peter Holbrook 
,

Jean Genet Bob StanleyAndrew Noren Claes OldenbergKuchar Brothers Ed Ruscha Jack Smith and others 
and others 

and FEATURING 
The Theatre of the Ridiculous Off-Off-Broadway Production of Lady Godiva 
by Ronald Tavell directed by John Vaccaro 
Official Delegate Cards will be available beginning Wed., January 15, In the dining halls, 5:00-6:30 PM and in the Huddle, 12:00-1:00 PM Prices: 
$2.00 ND & SMC Students $3.00 Faculty & Staff $5. 00 all others 

-delegates will be admitted to all conference functions free. -due to limited capacity, only delegates will be admitted to films and several other conference events. -limited number of delegate cards available -further information on conference forthcoming 


---------------------------~----------------~----­
PAGE 8 FRIDAY, JANUARY 10, 1969 

Ohio Skaters Bow to Irish 
By GREG WINGENFELD with Tomasoni prone on the ice from squelching a previous shot

By Bob Arnzen, Irish forward The Notre Dame Hockey 
and Pete Esdalc found the net 
team opened a 13 game

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• late in the game with Tomasoni
. homcstand yesterday afternoon lying in a heap of bodies after with a convincing 8-5 drubbing
Now 9-2 turning away two scoring
of Ohio University, the only thrusts.
While you were away, I'm sure you heard that team to beat the du Lac icers Coach McNeil attributed the
we were successful in winning five games. We this year. John Womack, a sloppy play in the game to "soft .. easily handled a Missouri Valley team, St. Louis, freshman winger, banged home ice". He predicts a better gameand then won two close games from Big Ten three goals to pace the Irish 

a for tonight when the Athens,teams, Minnesota and Indiana. We took offense. 
Ohio team gets a chance to

discouraging 20-point loss at Kentucky as we were before a but
Playing sparse salvage a split in the four gamebadly outplayed the final ten minutes. That loss confetti-mad audience of 637, series.

dropped us out of the Top Ten and down deep in the Irish icers took a 4-1 first 

the ratings. FIRST PERIOD
period lead and were never Looking back now, I can attempt to rationalize 
headed. Womack drilled a Kevin Scoring and say that some good may have resulted from 
Hoene pass into the net past OU ND-John Womack (Kevin this loss. It made us realize that we were not 
goalie Mel Wolff with only 4: 17 Hoene), 4: 17playing good ball; actually, we had been lucky to elapsed in the initial stanza. Less ND-Phil Willliff(unassistcd),win a couple games that maybe we didn't deserve than three minutes later, with 
6:54
to win. We realized we have a lot of work to do if OU shorthanded, Phil Wittliff NO-Paul O'Neil (Mike Collins), we're going to get another crack at Kentucky, and zipped down the ice unassisted 

also UCLA, in the tournament. 8:12
to score the first of his two ' With the start of the new year, we could look Oil-Bruce Powell (Paul Thorn­
markers. Paul O'Neil added back on a 5-2 record and ahead to playing six ton), 8:39
two goals in the period as ND straight home games. In December, we were able 
threatened to blow the visitors ND-O'Neil (Jim Morin), 17:21 
to start a total of eight different players due to off the ice. 

Penalties
injuries and our sophomores benefitted from the 

The game was "wide open and opportunity by gaining valuable game experience. OH-Joe Martin (tripping), 6:08
loosely played" according to 
However, a disappointing injury to Austin leaves Notre Dame assistant coach Tim ND-Wittliff(slashing), 9:47 us without our leading scorer for about four more McNeil. The 13 goal total and I I ND-Ocan Daigler (charging), weeks. Fortunately, Jim Derrig and Jackie Meehan penalties will attest to that. 15:10 arc healthy again, and this, along with the six Goalie Dick Tomasoni made ND-Eric Norri (charging). 18:38 home games and long semester layoff, could help 28 saves in the game, some of 
SECOND PERIOD

us case the pain of losing Austin. them miraculous. He was at his 
So far, we've won three games in January and best in the first two periods, Scoring arc beginning to show signs of putting all the smothering 18 of 20 shots. OU ND-Phil Wittliff (Jim Cordcs­talked-about potential together and get down to scored three last period goals 
Dean Deiglcr), II :42 playing good, sound, winning basketball every after the contest was all but 
ND-J im Morin (Mark Longar), game. decided. Paul Thornton scored 
13:25 Oil-Alex MacNicol (unassisted), 19:40 Penalties

ND Cagers Squeak Past Butler, 76-73 
NO-Dean Daigler (holding), 

By PETE BRUDERLE 2:48 disturbed Johnny Dee signaled the evening 67-55. in outrcbounding his big men
Notre Dame strugglccl against ND--Phil Wittliff (holding), for Fortunately 51-48. This figure be
Tony Hinkle's "cat-and-mouse" a timeout. Butler wasn't through though wouldn't 12:03 offense and a rugged rebounding Dwight Murphy got the message and Tony Hinkle's patterned so painful if you could ignore and his four jumpers in the next offense continued to grind away. the fact that Butler's "big man" THIRD PERIOD
effort last night, but spurted 

four minutes to give the Irish a Garry Hoyt scored twice from was only 6-5 and the rest of his Scoringmid-way through the second half 
to post a 76-73 win over the 65-55 cushion when Butler inside, Clarence Harper threw in teammates were each giving Oil-Paul Thornton (Peter pesky Butler Bulldogs. called time at 6:42. Jim Derrig two jumpers and sure enough away about two inches to the Esdalc), 2:40 The Irish, scoring now and came back with a jumper and with 0:14 to go the Bulldogs taller Irish. NO-John Womack (Kevin again when it counted, coasted the Irish had their biggest lead of were down 75-73. Leading scorer for Notre Hoene), 4:24Steve Norris intentionally Dame was Bob Whitmore with
unconcerned through the first 
OH-Gary Schi
IRISH FG

half to a 31-31 tie. With 11:57 FT R TP fouled Tom Sinnot, and he made 16 points. Bob Arnzen added 14 
Arnzen 6-15 2-4 14 
remaining the game was still 10 the second of two to give the while Murphy and Collis Jones
0-0 16
Whitmore 8-22 7 Oil-Gary Scheiers (J crry Blair),
Irish their winning margin. tabbed II each.
knotted, 47-47, when a Catlett 3-10 0-5 7 6 
9:45

O'Connell 3-3 1-1 3 7 Notre Dame outshot the "bad Garry Hoyt lead Butler with 1-1 11 ND·--John Womack (Phil Wit­
Murphy 5-8 4 guys" 46% to 42%, but Butler 25 points including II rebounds, Pleick 2-4 2
Pied Piper 0-0 4 performed a feat Johnny Dec while Harper turned in a 9-18 tliff), 17: 13 
Derrig 3-4 0-1 2 6 
would rather not seen repeated performance for his 19 points. Oil-Peter Esdale (Paul Thorn­
Meehan 0-0 0-0 0 0 (UPI) The Pied Piper of Sinnott 0-1 1-3 2 1 ton-Alex MacNicol), 18: 13 lfamlin never had more Jones 5-9 1-2 6 11 Penalties

De Paul VIsits NDTomorrow
TOTALS 35-76 6-17 48
followers. He coulcir1't possibly. 76 
FG-36% 011-Mike Grocki (holding), 3:41 Every place Joe Namath goes, FT-60% Sporting an 8-2 record and a and Sevira Brown, a 6-4, 220 lb. 
ND-Dean Daigler (hooking), a crowd suddenly congregates. 

90.2 scoring average, the De Paul strongman.
BUTLER FG FT R TP 8:02
Every corner he tur 1s, the crowd Blut! Demons invade the Convo Last season Notre Dame

Hoyt 9-17 7-8 11 25 
011 Adam Perkowski (high­stm is right t;wre behind him, 

Spadorcia 0-1 0-0 1 0 Center for a 2:30 contest squeaked by De Paul 75-68 and 
sticking), 12:43

only twice as big. Harper 9-18 1-2 11 19 tomorrow against the Irish. 91-85, the latter in overtime. lie has long since given up the Norris 6-14 0-0 2 Led by senior captain AI Prccecding the varsity game at 011-Crcg Falla (roughing), 
12 Neat 1-9 0-1 4 2
idea of enjoying much privacy. 15:37
Zetzsche's average, Coach Ray I 2:30, the Irish frosh take on De
Bennett 6-13 1-1 10 13
lie tried getting a little before Hardin 1-4 0-0 0 2 Meyer's crew are making a Paul. Sparked by Nick Hirtzig Oil-John Bangay (slashing), the New York Jet:·' regular TOTALS 32-76 9-12 51 73 comeback from last year's I 3-I 2 and Paul Shields, the Little 19:34 practice session Thursday 
FG-36% 

record, the worst percentage Demons sport an 8-2 season SAVES
FT-83"/o

morning when he put nn a rather since 1951-52. Over Christmas, record. 
Tomasoni (NO) 8 10 10 28wrinkled, plain look'r g pair of Sports Card the Demons took the The Demons' losses were to 6 7 II 24Wolff(Ohio)

plaid bathing trunks ;.nd walked consolation bracket title at the St. Joseph's of PhiladelphiaFRIDAY
out to the pool at •he hotel Quaker City Invitational (84-75) in the Quaker tourney Final 
Hockey: NO vs. Ohio U., 7:30
~ where the team stay·!d, hoping Tournament in Philadelphia. and 77-72 to Marquette last NOTRE DAME 4 2 2 R 
p.m.

to soak up some sun in one of Meyer's sophomore son, Joe, night. OHIO 3 5 
the lounge ~hairs. SATURDAY runs the offense and contributes Frosh Basketball: ND vs.
He looked as if he wanted to a 15.0 average. Other starters be alone but they wouldn't let DePaul, 12:30 p.m. figure to be 6-7 center Ken him. Wave after wave, the people Basketball: NO vs. DePaul, Warzynski (9.4), 6-4 forward 
2:30p.m.

-came at him; they never really Tom Hunter ( 11.2), and 6-3 Hockey: ND vs. Detroit, 7:30
stoiJped. guard Tom Tracy (9.4). Back-up p.m.
It"was no use. service is provided by Ed Goode 













