Freedoms Foundation winner speaks of patriotism 
BY Ted Price Campus Editor. 

The man who was probably the first to be called "Black Panther" didn't earn the name for a militant political outlook. He won it for militantly piloting his F-80 during the Korean War and being one of the few Black fighter pilots in the Air Force at the time. Black power came to the fore again in Vietnam in 1967 as a member of the famed "Wolfpack" of the 8th Tactical Fighter Wing which holds the record for the most aircraft shot down during a single day hy a single unit. 
But for Col. Daniel "Chappie" James, it wasn't always easy being a Negro in the Air Force. A 1942 graduate of Tuskegee 
Institute, his first assignment was to the James said that enemies of the US get 332nd Composite Group under Col. (later the wrong impression of American youth Gen.) Benjamin 0. Davis. when they see news reports of demon­
"That was a pretty exclusive outfit," strations and campus violence. But he he recalled in a speech last night before said that what hurts the image most is the AFROTC cadets, "we just didn't those who are "too damn lazy to get allow any white people in it. But I involved." managed to overcome this and I think "When the silent majority will allow a I've been pretty successful since." small percentage of students on a par­
But it wasn't all light hearted. The ticular campus to engage in violence and 1967 winner of the Freedoms Foun­force police action there without even dation Award, Col. James spoke vehe­speaking up to say that they arc wrong, mently on the subject of patriotism. He then they are just as guilty as the dis­said that "it is fast becoming unpopular ruptors," he charged. among the swinging set in the us" "I was recently on the campus of the 
University of Tennessee," he said, "just after they burned down the ROTC build­ing. I said to them, 'I helped to build that building, dammit, and you have no right to burn down what I have built.' They cursed and spat at me, but after you've been shot at, that's not so bad." 
"This is our nation, a great nation, a nation of laws," he said. ',We owe a debt to her to preserve and to better her. The Black people of the United States have gained and ~ill continue to gain, by the grace of God, but only through real Americanism, which seeks advancement in the proper manner." 

RMN press conference reviews European trip 
(UP() President Nixon said yesterday that he h~liev~s the Soviet Union wants to keep thl' West Berlin situation from heat­ing up to avoid j~apardizing high lev~l nl·gotiations "in th~ wings" between Russia and the United Stall'S. 
Speaking at a nationally broadc<tst White llous~ nl~Ws conference on the CVl' of the disputed West (;erman election of a federul president in West Berlin, the President said "The situation seems to ltaVl' lcvekd off" recently. 
lie said Ill' ami Secretary of Stutc William P. Rogers had told Soviet i\ mhassador Anatoly F. Dohrynin that any communist harassment in West Berlin "could jeopardize the progress that we sec in other areas." 
He added: "At this time, I believe that the Soviet Union docs not want the situation heated up to jeopardize more important negotiations with the United States." 
Reporting to the nation on his eight day tour of Western Europe, from which he returned to Washington Sunday night, the President said his discussions in five Allied capitals was a prelude to an East-West summit meeting "at a later date" not yet decid­ed. 
Nixon said that the United States had been carefully asses­sing the communist offensive in Vietna rn hut that it had not yet decided on its response. 
Noting that the United States had not thus far taken "precipi­tous action," Nixon warned the communists that this restraint should not he taken as a sign of weakness. 
"We will not tolerate a viola­tion of the understanding" bet ween the United States and North Vietnam which led to the bombing halt last Nov. I, Presi­dent Nixon said. 
Nixon noted that in recent attacks the American casualty rate had doubled, and he stres­sed that this factor reinforced the U.S. determination to deliver what he described only as "an appropriate response" at a time of its choosing. 
However, Nixon d~clared that tin· communist offensive "has failed." 
As for his European trip, the President said it helped l'stablish "a new relationship of trust and 
confidence" between the United Stat~s and the continent. 

At;~~~il' n~l~a:~~~li~l~set:V~~ !~::~
attention," he said, "should be the center of our concern, should not be taken for grantl'd. It will not he." 
He said he found Europeans "highly sensitive" about the possibility of a U.S.-Soviet dom­inance of world affairs in which the two great powers make bilat­eral decisions affecting other countries without consulting them. 
The President said he inten­
ded to establish close tics with 
the Vatican in Rome but he has 
not yet decided whether to send 
an ambassador to the Roman 
Catholic city state. 
He said he and State Depart­
ment advisers intended to have 
the very closest consultation and 
discussion with the Vatican." 
Nixon said he would an­nounce the first of next week his decision on whether to go ahead with construction of Antibal­listic Missile ABM system for defense of U.S. cities against attack by intercontinental mis­siles. 
Asked about the chances for West German ratification of the ban of spreading nuclear weap­ons between nations, Nixon said he felt the Germans would even­tually approve the controls. 
He said particularly that U.S. relations with France arc "dif­fcrcnt and improved" as a result of the trip and that President Charles de Gaulle had offered his cooperation in finding solutions to troublesome world problems. 

E 




OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame tmd St. Miln '1 College Community 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 5, 1969
VOL. Ill, No. 93 

Apt praises Joyce 
~yGle~or'o d.I date s 0 pen cam p a I. g n 
Tl f S . 1e race or 'tudent Bo?y President ope~ed yesterday, With a crowded field. There are. no les~ th.an.twclve students runnmg. This, IS m star~ contrast to last years rae~, which featured only four candidates. SBP hopeful Mike Kendall 
issued a statement in favor of 
Notre Dame becoming a co-educational college. Kendall said that he "views passage of 
the co-ed bill, and strong and unified action by the student body and the student government to implement co-ed as absolutely necessary, if any meaningful improvements arc to be made at Notre Dame. Sociological and psychological studies are not needed for any student to sec that the absence of women on this campus 
· 

creates more prob!ems than it 
solves." In a Jetter to Father Joyce, in regard to Vaciline, SBP hopeful 
Alan Apt said, .. , wish to 
congratulate you on your foresight for not allowing the sneaker-wearing dispropor­tionate voice in moral judgements which should be reserved for the ad ministration alone." Apt also stated, "It's obvious that the students arc not capable of rational j udgcmcnt in areas of personal morality. (I agree with of your disregard of the Student Life Council's judgement concerning the 
"First Tuesday" features Hesburgh's statement 
Father Theodore Hcsburgh appeared briefly on the NBC television show "First Tuesday" last night, stating again some of his ideas about universities. 
The moderator of the show Edwin Newman, introduced Fr: lleshurgh as exemplifying the trend among many to seek a hard-line approach to college disturbances. Newman noted that the part of Hcsburgh's position calling for suspension and expulsion has been well-puhlici:t.ed, but said tlwt the "other part" of his letter showed him to be a sy rnpathetic and concerned educator. 
The university in its unrest is reflecting the general unrest of the world," Hesburgh said. He the vision is law and order, but then went on to make four main law and order do not mean points. anything without justice." 
"First, it seems to me that the "Finally, we need a little university should be judged by more love between generations what it really is, not what it and a little more laughter. We appears to be. A very, very small take ourselves too deadly ser­minority of faculty and students iously." seem to get about 99 percent of Newman then noted the nat­the exposure on university life ional impact of Hcsburgh's let­whereas the great majority, the ter, saying that it "has produced great, great majority, are some a political shock wave." He of the best and well-informed, noted President Nixon's res­well-dedicated people who really ponse to the letter. Newman also want to change the world for the said that Hesburgh's advict~ to better." Nixon was that the federal gov­
Secondly, he said that society ernment should "leave its hands is facing "not a crisis of authori­off" the universities and let ty, but a crisis of vision." them handle their own prob­Third, he said that "part of lems. 
matter) or any other areas where a cool head and a firm grasp of the real issues arc essential." 
At the end of his letter, Apt repeated the demand for the administration to be leaders. "It's time for the administration to once again step to the forefront in guiding the student 
through the ambiguities of his social and academic life here at Our Lady's University."Another SBP hopeful, Kevin S
mith, issued a statement callingfor a serious attitude on the part 
f 
o the students, in the upcomingelection. "Unless the individual student is concerned enough to become involved in this campaign, and, in a larger sense, in the overall affairs of the 
University, it will be impossible t f d ,
o moe orwar next year. 
. 
SBP hopeful Paul Welshman 

· d 
Issue a challenge today to all ~BP candidates to a debate aturday afternoon at 2 pm on

McCarthy 
Senator Eugene J. McCarthy (D., Minn.) will be on the Notre Dame cam pus today and tomorrow as the first Senior Class Fellow in the university's history. The visit is sponsored by 

Senator McCarthy 

the Senior Fellowship Program. 
McCarthy will arrive on campus at noon today, proceeding to the Morris Inn where he will eat with Senior Class Presidl~nt C. David Witt, Senior Class Vice President 
the ma1n quad (or 2nd floor of 
La Fortune if weather is bad). 
He issued the challenge "In the 
interest of Public dialogue". He 
plans to have a rock band and 
plenty of girls. Welshman's 
campaign theme is "American 
Revolution Phase II" 
J h K · h h. · 
0 
. n rantc w o came m 
wtth Welshman accepted the 
h 11 H · · h 
c a enge. e IS runntng on t e 
.. 
R~acti.ona~y, Enlightened, 
Anh-ctencal hcket." 
Charles Walsh, SBP hopeful, 
whoalsocameinwithWelshman 
said, "We're considering the 
offer." 
Walsh also issued a statement, 
"Secularism, non-alienated of 
Du Lac is astonishing in its 
purity. It is my wish to alter this 
pattern." 
SBP hopeful Phil McKenna 
and h1"s runn1'ng JJJatc Fred Dedrick, issued their platform today. The platform stresses the 
continued on page 3 
•


arr1ves 
Thomas M. Burn, Chuck Sheedy, and a group of seniors chosen by lottery. 
This afternoon Senator McCarthy will attend a discussion class at 2:00 at which Professor John Houck will socak on legal aspects. McCarthy will ,attend another class at 4:00 where there will be a poetry reading of poetry which he has 
written, and a talk on modern 
Catholic writing by Professor 
Francis J. O'Malley. 
Senator McCarthy will eat 
tonight with a group of seniors 
chosen by lottery, and will move 
on to a reception at the Alumni 
Club attended, again, by a group 
of seniors chosen by lottery. 
Tomorrow Senator McCarthy 
will participate in discussions on 
foreign policy and Christianity 
in the modern world. He also 
will hold a press conference at 
3:00. 
Tomorrow evening at 8:00 
pm in Stepan Center Senator 
McCarthy, as the 1969 Senior 
Class Fellow, will preside over 
the !20th Annual Washington 
Day Exercises. The address is 
open to the public. 


WEDNESDAY, MARCH 5, 1969

PAGE 2 'TilE OBSERVER 


Maisel cites progress of Cuba 
Chris Wolfe 

Robin Maisel, a member of Havana proper. role in terrorist activities in the National Committee of 
Commenting on the Soviet aid Latin America Maisel slated he 
Young Socialists, spoke at the to Cuba, Maisel said that, "Aid felt that "It is quite moral for Not just sugar coatinglibrary auditorium Monday 
gotten from the Soviet Union Cuba to send soldiers to aid afternoon on Cuba. Maisel and 
has been instrumental in revolutions, but immoral for the fourteen other members of his 
building up and sustaining the U.S. to send soldiers to aid organization visited Cuba during. 
economy." The Cubans are counterrevolution." To the satisfaction of many and the chagrin of a few, the SLC on the tenth anniversary of the getting away from reliance on Maisel plans to speak at De Monday passed resolutions permitting visitation hours for certain revolution. 
Soviet aid because of the Cuban Paul University in Chicago next. periods on weekends and drinking for those over twenty-one. These Tho ugh there is a state missile cnsts. According to He is covering most of the arc, though, subject to review by Father Hesburgh for possibledepartment ban on travel to 
Maisel the Cubans felt, "They Midwest on his speaking tour. presentation to the Board of Trustees. 
Cuba, Maisel and his group got were had by the Russians, He said that he came to speak at There are more dangers left for these bills, however, besides a around this by traveling to because they didn't invite the Notre Dame, "Partly because of possible veto, and the major one is misinterpretation by students Mexico city, obtaining a visa, Russian missiles into their the name, and partly because of which may lead to the wi~hdrawal of the permissions. The easier to 
and flying to Cuba from there. country." 
the geographical location." explain of the two possible misinterpretations concerns drinking.
When Maisel was asked if he In response to a question Maisel is originally a resident of The bill does not permit anybody to drink in public places on felt there would be a move by from the audience on Cuba's Chicago. campus. Just as people cannot drink a beer walking down North 
the State Department to 
Michigan St., neither can anyone drink one walking across campus,
confiscate his passport, he 
or in any other place where the public would be allowed to enterreplied, "I don't expect them to, 
Infirmary confirms 
under normal conditions. The bill also specifically forbids anybodybecause they know that if they to set up a shop of any sort-buying something for a friend is okay,do that we'll take them to court but someone who has a truck back up to his door with I 00 cases to

gasfrifus outbreak
and beat them." He then 
sell retail. ..
enumerated several cases where The more difficult of the questions is the parietal hoursAn outbreak of diarrhea hit
the State Department had taken Mr. Mehall countered the resolution. The major thing to note is that it was passed on ansuch action, and had been the campus Sunday night and charge that creamed corn served experimental basis. The argument has been proposed with someMonday at about the same time on Sunday in the SDH causedrequired by the courts to return justification that the idea of parietal hours being "experimental"the passports. that the University employed a the illness saying "we served the may just be a sugar-coating for the bill, so that approval by theMaisel began his presentation sanitarian to oversee campus same corn to the North Dining President and Board of Trustees would be easier to obtain. It docshealth conditions. Hall."
by showing several slides he took look like this but in fact it is not. Several SLC members made itInfirmary officials confirmedof Cuba. Among them were quite explicit' that abuse of the permission would cause them tothat they had 50 or 60 cases
shots of a mass rally held in a SMC sales open favor a reversal of Monday's resolution. If the SLC can institutereported during a 12 hour period
square in Havana. Maisel 
hours, it also has the rig~t to eliminate them. 
Sunday night and Monday. They

remarked that there were 
St. Mary's Junior Class went The abuse could take several forms. The most important--becausetermed the ailment "acute gas­"slightly less than a million into business yesterday for a it would affect the moral standing and public presentation of thetritus" distinguishing it frompeople there." Other shots two-day operation in the Club University would be a noticeable occurence of fornication. Thefood poisoning which is a muchincluded the Sierra Mastera, House from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. The chances of this arc small, but those who oppose parietal hours wouldmore serious disease. AlthoughPosters about Che Guevera in thrift shop has been opened as a jump on the least event, so that it would require only a few peoplethe particular item that causedHavana and shots of the city of 
SMC junior Class 
Thrift Shop 
Today in the Clubhouse 
9 to 9 

For Sale: led Kennedy bumper stickers 
2 for $1.00 

Mr. Quillin 511 Enderly Street Rrownsburg, Indiana 
the outbreak was not pinned down, it was established that those affected ate at the South Dining Hall. Despite this indica­ting fact, infirmary officials were unable to single out the SOH as the initiator of the trouble, and added that other causes such as spoiled food from vending mach­ines or intestinal flu might have caused the illness. 
B. Mehall, Director of Food Service, commented that although those students affected were from the SDH, there is a wide variety of meals to which individual victims would put the blame. He emphasized that some of those complaining had only 
eaten  the  noon  meal  while  
others  only  ate  dinner  on  
Sunday.  



• Craftsmen in Optics FOR THE FINEST EYEGI.ASSES AND CONTACT lENS-ES 
service  to  the  St  Mary's  
Community  because  of  its  
success last year.  

Purchases can be made by anybody from articles sold by girls from all classes. Anyone wishing to sell anything can take it to the Club House today. 
Committees headed by Carol Bayer and Chris Turkle priced each article of clothing, shoes, jewelry and records. The shop is staffed by the 1unior Class. The seller will receive a 75% profit from each article and 25% will go to the class to be contributed to the Contemporary Arts Festival in April. 
who  parade  their  triuraphant  masculinity  to  destroy  the  whole  
experiment.  
Another,  more  likely,  abuse  would  be for  the  status  quo  to  

continue, that is, for students to continue bringing, or overlook the bringing in of, girls whenever they feel like it. The SLC did not pass a limited number of hours as a first step to something broader; it passed limited hours because it thought limited hours best, and expects them to be observed. Non-observance could lead to a switch of votes when the bill is , evicwcd at the end of this year, after the experimental time period. 
The whole situation will be to a great extent a test of student responsibility, an idea which has suffered grievous blows this year, especially at the hands of the Honor Council action. Many people have faith in the students, but most have a certain amount of doubt mingled with that faith. The experimental period, though it may seem like sugar-coating, may play a very important part in shaping attitudes toward student responsibility in all segments of the campus. 

$50 Advance registration fee due this week 
The Office of Student Ten dollars of the deposit will 
Accounts is now accepting fifty be returned in case of with­dollar advance registration fees drawal before July I and the full for next semester. Students who fifty dollars will be returned to intend to return next semester those who are drafted and must must confirm their intention by withdraw. making the fifty dollar deposit. Mr. Emcrit T. Moore, Director 
of Student Accounts, estimated 
Monday that the dorm capacity
THE SHEA lAND BlDG.·-132 S. MICHIGAN ST.--CEntral 2-146!! 

will increase by five hundred
MET CLUB 

with the opening of the new

EASTER PLANE SALES 
high rise dorms next fall. 
Sun. 7:00 STUDENT CENTER 
He also said that almost all 

Sophomores and Juniors who
Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.--Chicago 
are on campus this year will be on campus next year. Exact on campus averages will not be determined until approximately the week before Easter vacation. 
Mr. Moore stated that stay halls would probably acct!pt room reservations during the second week after Easter vaca­tion. After these reservations arc recorded by the Office of Stud­ent Accounts, which will take about a week, the general pool for room selection will be opened. 




SECOND TICKET SALES for JUNIOR PARENTS-SON WEEKEND 
WIL.L. BE HEL.D WED. MARCH 5, 7:30-9:00 in the FIESTA LOUNGE of the STUDENT CENTER 
-CHECK PAYMENT PREFERRED­
.. 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 5, 1969 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 
----------·----------­

Senate passes Academic Freedom and Tenure Bill 
-
-~ 

. -­
The l;aeully Scnall' voted lasl unavoidable circumstances. This Tuesday, March II to prepare a night lo rl'l'OillmL'nd to the Aca­recotnntendation proposes that a report on the University's sup­
demic Council a resolution re­missed final ex<Jminulion must pression of the st udcnt publi­garding university polky on ten­be re-taken within a thirty day cation "Vacilinc". ure. period after the beginning 6f the This report, along with a 
In a session at the Center for next semester or else the student revised report on the possibility ('ontinuin~ l:du~:ation which ran is subject to failure in I he of grading rhangcs, and a study 
·THE WORLD TODAY 
Army has enough gas for 100 billion 
for tnorc than three hours and course. of faculty fringe benefits arc 
WASHINGTON (UPI) The Army told Congressmen yesterday it was complicated by mud1 ted­Also, it was announ~.:ed that scheduled to be discussed when ha.~ enough of a single nerve gas in its chemical hiologil.:al warfare ious debate regarding ambigui­the Senate's Committee on Stu­the Senate convenes again on arsenal to kill the world's population many times over. ties in the present policy on dent Affairs would mcd on 
April I. But Russia one lawmaker rq10rtcd, may harbor an even more tenure, the Senate resolved to lethal capability in this lillie discussed and highly sc~:rd field. recommend the following resolu­Pre~identlal campaigns begin to roll Rep. Richard D. McCarthy, 0-N.Y., who sponsored a closed Army tion to the consideration of the 
continued from page I alleviating the inequities of soc­briefing for lloust: members, said after it cndt:d he is worried not Academic Council: "In deciding personal development ot the iety." Bc~.:ausc of these two only about the overall arms ra~:c hut also more immediately about questions relating to academic individual through the consdous stands, McKcnna and Dl·drick the fact the deadly nerve agent a substam:c labeled by the Army freedom and tenure, the Univer­development of the hall, student emphasize the need for increased "GB" sometimes is transported hy rail. sity of Notre Dame should fol­
responsibility in Student bla~:k enrollment. Several plans
"We have had an alarming increase in railroad a~:cidcnts, so this low the 1940 statement of the 
government, student arc proposed to accomplish this; 
poses a most serious problem," he said. American Association of Univer­
participation in University increased scholarships specifi­
One estimall' coming out of the briefing indi~.:ated that the United sity Professors, as outlined in decisions, and the realization c<Jlly set aside for Blacks, an States has enough "G B" on hand to kill I00 billion people, sections I and 2 of the 1968 and solution of the Black increased Black faculty, lowering
M~.:Carthy told newsmen. Recommended Institutional 
problem. of admission requirements for That would be enough to kill the world's estimated population of Regulations on A~:adcmic Free­Dedrick said that "McKenna Blacks, and an increase in Black 3.4 billion nearly 30 times over. dom <Jnd Tenure." 
would work through the Hall oriented courses. 

Rep. Robert L.F. Sikes, D-Fia., another of several dozen members In other business, the Faculty Presidents' council to advise and SBP hopeful John Mroz statedattending the briefing, said he thinks the United States is not doing Senate approved a recommen­help the Hall Presidents in hall that a major theme of his cam­enough in the field. Sikes said it is estimated the Russians have dation by the Committee on 
development." 

paign will be employment of"seven to eight times" the ~.:apahility of the United States in University Administration of the 
"The students must prove to

chemical hiologic<JI warfare. Faculty Senate, which dealt with "community power" at Notre 
the administration that they can

the procedure of making up a Dame. 
carry out a responsible fis~.:al

Sirhan once loved Kennedy final exam missed because of Mroz defined community
operation," McKenna st<Jtcd. power as "the faculty, students
I.OS AN(; E LES ( UPI) Sirhan B. Sirhan testified yesterday he Evaluation due "The best means to do this, is began to consider killing Sen. Robert F. Kennedy when he saw a 
through the Student Unioh Pol­and administration working The Student Course and icy Board." An enlarged treasur­together for the good of the
television documentary showing the Senator helping Israelis Tca~:hcr Evaluation Committee er's office also plays a large part University. This hopefully will
Cl~lchratc their intkpcndcncc. in M~.:Kenna's finance plan.
distributed questionnaires last also mean for the good of theThe 24 year old defendant identified some jottings made in a week to all students to evaluate students."
school hook as his handwriting. The notes said Kennedy "must he M~:Kcnnu feels that "In Uni­
Ia st semester's courses. All The candidate called the rec­
ass<Jssinated before .'i June 68." versity Govern men!, the effort
questionnaires are to he ent Pornography Conference a
Under questioning by ~.:hicf defense counsel Grant B. Cooper, to ad1icvc a true commuity is
completed and returned by the "classic example of the break­
Sirhan related th<Jt he apparently made the notation in May. 1968, a the prime interest. This problem
end of the week. down of community power at
few weeks before he shot and mortally wounded Kennedy. Then can be solved, through the estab­
This semester's book wiH be Notre Dame."
Sirhan told of seeing the do~:umcntary and said: lishment of a University Senate.
published jointly with ND by

"It gave his whole history. Part of the program spoke of Robert This body would have juris­
the SCHOLASTIC if the NO

Kennedy always being for the underdog ... for the scum of society. diction over all matters concern­
MIXER
Student Union has money e­

.. tlwt he wanted to help the weakest. ing the University."
nough to fund the project. If ND 
1-lurut College

"In 194S Robert Kennedy was in Israel helping the Israelis to Dealing with the role of the
decides not to publish evalua­

celebrate their independence." Up to that point Sirhan said "I loved blacks in the University,
tions this Spring, SMC will pub­
SATURDAY 8-12:30Robert Kennedy." The television show changed his mind however McKenna states, "The Chrisitan

lish their evaluations indepen­

all invited dently.
and with hands gestiwlating he said, "lie was doing a lot of things University must be involved in 
behind my hack that I didn't know about and it burned me up." 
The committee, chaired by Ticket distribution for the presentation and
Apollo 9 climbs into high orbit Pam Carey, is most anxious to 
make this publication a success. 
address of the Seniror Class Fellow Senator Eugene

SPACI: CENTER, Houston (UPI) Apollo 9's hard working 
The failure of last semester's 
J. McCarthy.

astronauts triggered three prcdsion firings of their main spacecraft 
evaluation showed a lack of stu­engine yesterday, driving themselves deeper into space and proving 
dent interest in academic affairs. thl' connection between their command and lunar landing spacecraft 
The publication is one voice the is stron~ enou~h for a flight to the moon. 
students do have in expressing 
Dining Halls 5:30-6:30

"You ~t•ys, we're perfect again," a jubilant Russcn Schwcickart 
their opinions of instructors and radioed hack to the ground after the last blast of the 20,500 pound 
Off Campus Office tIt rust engine. Sdtweickart. James McDivitt and David Scutt riding in the cone 
courses. 



CONTOURA 


SUAC
shaped command _ship and pushing the hug-like lunar lander with 
with Dinrr onds cf

thl·ir craft's nose dimbt:d into an orbit reaching 313 miles high with 
the final engine hoost. 
UltimatP p,~aut:r ... 
& 

With the first two engine firings they fishtailed their linked up moonship through space, trying out the command ship's guidance . 

The South Bend Community

systl'm and checking the strength of the 12 latches which hold the moon lander tight against the Apollo cabin's pointed nose. 
l'resen t a


Twelve petitions in; 
COMMUNITY FORUM

hectic race ahead 

ON BLACK POWER

A II twelve Studt:nt Body submit a petition signed by one Presidential candidates lost no hundrcd students, thus finalizing 
March 16-20 

time in formalizing thl'ir his candida~:y. The deadline for intentions to run for the post petition delivery was early last 
Adam Clayton Powell

yesterday in the Student evening; all do~:uml·nts were in, c;overnment Office, possibly however, by early afternoon. 
( Democratic Repri!S'I!ntative from Harlem) foreshadowing a swift, hectic Junior Phil McKenna was, as 
Andrev-J Hatcher ~.:amp<tign in the days to ~:omc. expected, the first nominee to 
(Presidential Candidate of the Peace and Freedom Party)Each aspirant was required to submit a petition. 
Dick Gregory in debate with Andrew Hatcher Shirley Chisholm 

JUNIORS: 
(Democratic Congresswoman from Brooklyn) 
James Farmer 
Illustration Enlarged 
(Under Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare)

Last chance to make arrangements for your yearbook Seminars
photograph. Call 8129 or stop in room 213 of the Student Her fondest dreams come true Discussions
when you choose a Contoura diamond bridal set. 

Center between 9:30-4:00 to make an appointment. 
Films: (I) Negro and tht: American Promise 
(2) The New Mood

by~;be~ 
( 3) Messenger from Violet Drive
YEARBOOK STAFF 
(4) and others

t'~i.al!li.Jtul ClmJltl'lt Co 

~.:-:-~==-:-;-::-~;::-;;-::;:-::-:;-:;-::-;-::-:--::--::----;-;::c:------,,.-------:-----,----l THt iJ! !L',\ATf I~~ 0 I AMON DS
The Observer Is published dally during the c•>llege semester excCIJl 
Ticket Sales in the Dining Halls Student Forum Pas~ 52 

vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's WHO: ESAI ( . -~EP~ 3Y APPOitHMFNl 
College. Subscriptions mav be purchased for $10 frn"' The Observer, Box 
Thursday & Friday 5:15-..c::..o pm Adult Forum Pass ~i3 11, Notre Oame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Oame Ind. PHONF 281-1427 4f';55. 
• 
PAGE 4 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 5, 1969

THE OBSERVER 

-








Freshman quartet helps track cause 
By MIKE PAVLIN 
Observer Sports Writer 
Adding to the buoyancy of Coach Alex Wilson's track fortunes this winter have been the performances of a handful of outstanding freshmen. Elio l'olsclli has come down from Windsor, Ontario to become ND's top man in the shot put. In the Central Collegiate Conference Meet, he provided a pair of fifth-place finishes in the Shot and 35-l'ound Weight Throw. 
Jack Brady hails from New York City with a I:49 high school half-mile to his credit. In the CCC meet, he won his 

Irish grappler Jim Hansen was an 8-1 victor last night in the 152-pound class. 
Best ND grapplers 
go 8-2-1 
The Notre Dame grapplers mowed down Wheaton (Ill.) Col­lege 23·6 last night in the Convo for the finest record in their 13-year history. The Irish finished the dual-meet season 8-2, a win percentage of .800. Coach Tom Fallon's charges also took first place in the six-team Rochester Tech Tournament. 
Tom Ciacco began the Irish romp with a crushing 15-1 decision in the 123 lh. class. The next four categories also fell to Notre Dame, including a pin by Ken Ryan at 145 lob., giving the Irish an almost insurmountable 17-0 lead. 
Winning performances last night were registered hy Ciacco, Keith Giron, Mike Duell, Ryan, Jim Hansen, Bill Hasbrook, and Pat Mudron. 
Season individual records 
were: Jones 3-3; Ciaccio 6-2-1; 
(;iron 9-5; Duell9-7; Maas 0-1-1; 
Ryan 5-5; Hansen 7-3; Higgins 
4-5-1; Powell 1-3; Pisarro 1-2; 
Abrams 5-6; Hasbrook 10-3-1; 
Mudron 13-1-1; c;ustafson 0-0-1; 
llagonian 0-1; llerhcrt 0-2; 
Roach 0-1. 
123 lbs., Tom Ciacco (NO) dec. Mark Anderson (W): 15-1. 130 lbs., Keith Giron (NO) dec. Bob Graham (W): 6-5. 137 lbs., Mike Duell (NO) dec. Paul Taussig (W): 7-0. 145 lbs., Ken Ryan (NO) pin Steve Faulkner (W): 0:42. 152 lbs., Jim Hansen (NO) dec. Brad Jarman (W): 8·1. 160 lbs., Greg Campbell (WI dec. Greg Abrams (NO): 5-1. 167 lbs., Russ Rapier (WI dec. Tom Powell (NO): 2-0. 177 lbs., Bill Hasbrook (NO) dec. Bill Scholl (WI: J..2. Hvy., Pat Mudron (NO) dec. Dave Harper (WI: 4·3. 
specialty, then placed sewnd in 
the Mile Run in last Saturday's 
meet against Miami of Ohio. 
Two more frosh making big 

noise arc the "Mutt and Jeff" 
team of Mike McMannon and 
Kevin McAuliffe in the jumping 
events. McMannon, who comes 
from II ighland Heights, Ky. 
(about 20 miles south of 
Covington), stands 6-7 hut 
weighs in at only 165 poinds. In 
fact, if he and Boh Whitmore 
shook hands, they'd he a 
goa I post. 
But Mike has used his long 

stride and excellent speed well 
enough to become the top ND 
jumper, with two records 
a lre;1dy to his credit. Last 
Saturday, he long-jumped 24-1 
for a new indoor record to go 
along with his 49-5Y2 triple jump 
mark, established earlier against 
Indiana. 
McMannon's chief 

competition on the Irish squad 
comes from McAuliffe, who is 
5-7 and 140 pounds. Kevin, 
hometown: Syracuse NY, has 
been hampered this season by a 
hone bruise in his foot. 
Nevertheless, he camt• on to 
place second to Mike in the 
Long Jump versus Miami. 
Both freshmen were high 

school standouts. Mikt• set the 
Kentucky state Triple Jump 
record as a junior and won both 
jump events in the Mason-Dixon 
Games. He leaped 24-91/z (his 
career best) in the Long Jump at 
the Mansfield (Ohio) Invitational 
Meet in his senior year bcfofl~ 
suffering a pulled leg muscle. 
Kevin was the city champion in 
Syracuse in both events, with a 
21-9 long jump and a 46-4 triple 
jump to his credit. 
Several days ago, the jumpers 

sat in front of their lickcrs and 
engaged in some banter over 
their physical attributes. Mike 
admitted that his long legs gave 
him an advantage in reach, hut 
Kevin claimed his legs were 
stronger. '!I've pressed 
500-something pounds on the 
machine (special strength 
indicator) in the weight room." 
McMannon has used his height 
and long stride in other events. 
lie placed second in Saturday's 
High Jump and ran a leg on the 
victorious Mile-Relay team. In 
practice, he has turned out a 
49.2 quarter-mile. Kevin also ran the 440 in high school, in the respectable time of 52 seconds. 
To the Science major, who thinks "track meet" is something served at the North Dining Hall, the Long Jump looks absurdly simple. Run like hell and jump. But that's like saying that Austin Carr just picks up a basketball and heaves it. Factors such as speed, control, and lift arc important for a successful leap. "And you can't emphasize one over another", warns McMannon. "A perfect jump is the combination 
McKinley signs, Kunz honored 
A pair of Notre Dame football players both offensive linemen made news yesterday. 
Guard Tom Mt·Kinley signed with Montreal while tackle George Kunz was named to the 1968 Aca­demic All-America Team. 
of all these points, and a perfect jump is an accident." 
"We usually warm up about an hour before the meet," adds Kevin. "And lake three practice jumps plus 'run-throughs'. I take a jump with my sweats on, with the pants off, and finally with just my uniform on." A runner's "steps" can he thrown crucially off hy even the weight difference in the sweat clothes. 
The Triple Jump, or Hop, Skip and Jump, presents another problem. llere sheer speed is not necl~ssarily everything, rather a jumper must carry controlled momentum through two "one-footed" steps before taking-off on the final jump. Mike says he slows down slightly, while Kevin stays about the same. McAuliffe laughs, "But thl' Triple Jump usually follows the Long Jump so by that time you're so tired you run as hard as you can." 
To keep in shape, Kevin, Mike, and the other Irish jumpers must run daily on the troubll·some new track. They too have their complaints about blisters. For jumping purposes, however, they like the surface. "I think the runway is rather fast", says Mike, "Although it seems to be getting slower. I wonder of all those people walking over it (from Hockey games) has something to do with it." Kevin is also partial to the track if only because "in high school the best I did was 21-9. In my first meet here, I went 22-9. 
Interview over, both jumpers headed for the showers. They, along with PoiseIIi and Brady, are c x pcricncing thl~ heady feeling of coming in at the bottom and gravitating right to 
th<~ ton. 

Cage polls 
AP 

I. UCLA (44) 24-0 H9H 2. LaSalle (I) 23-1 724 3. Santa Clara 26-1 650 4. North Carolina 22-3 606 5. Davidson 25-2 573 6. Purdue 18-4 665 7. Kentucky 20-4 386 
8. St. John's, N.Y. 22-4 335 9. Duquesne 19-3 292 10. Villanova 21-4 203 II. Drake 21-4 159 
12. New Mexico State 23-2 I54 13. South Carolina 19-5 122 14. Marquette 21-4 119 15. Louisville 18-4 102 16. Boston College 20-3 85 17. Notre Dame 20-5 61 18. Colorado 19-6 46 19. Kansas 20-5 38 20. Illinois 17-5 27 
UPI 

I. UCLA (35) 24-0 350 2. Santa Clara 23-1 254 3. North Carolina 22-3 244 4. Davidson 25-2 204 5. LaSalle 23·1 193 6. Purd Ul' 18-4 I 7 3 7. Kentucky 20-4 141 
8. St. John's, N.Y. 22-4 92 
9. Duquesne 19-3 65 10. Villunova 21-4 44 II. Drake 21-4 42 
12. (tic) New Mcx. St. 23-3 19 I 2. Wyoming 19-7 19 
14. (tic) Notrl' Dame 20-5 14 14. Colorado 19-6 14 16. South Carolina 19-5 12 17. Marqul'!ll' 21-4 9 
18. Kansas 20-5 X 19. Boston Colll'gl' 20-3 7 20. Princeton 19-6 5 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllll 
No boycotts, no strikes 
"(iod Bless Tommy Smith and John Carlos." "ND is the Epitome of Hypocricy. Be Christian." "Alumni, What Matters More? Football or the Moral Integrity of ND?" "Heshurgh of the Civil Rights Commission: Look in Your Own Backyard." 
And there was one more conspicuous sign at• that black demonstration, preliminary to the Notre Damc-<;eorgia Tech football game last Nov. 16. It read. "Ara, the Day of the White Backfield is Past Ask Leroy. Ask O.J ." 
There is a strong feeling among black students that Irish football coaches intentionally keep blacks out of the offensive backfield and consequently, out of the spotlight. They cite the case of Larr; Schumacher, who was an offensive star in high school and returned a kickoff 83 yards for a touchdown against Michigan State as a freshmen, before being moved to defensive linebacker. Some blacks believe Ernie Jackson should havt' hcen ~iven an opportunity to play 

Larry Schumacher Austin Carr offensive halfback with the varsity. Four days after the Georgia Tech demonstration, Ara Parscghian labeled Negro sentiments "dissl'nt without havin~ all the facts." Ara told the Indianapolis Downtown Quarterback Club he would be delighted to have both Simpson and Keyes and all other capable Negro gridders. "Notrl' Dame has many more applications for admittance than it can accept," said Ara. "The combined qualifications for scholarship and athletic ability arc high. We do have five Negro hays on our freshman team. We had to go to five different states to get them." Less than a month later, Notre Dame's black athletes were newsmakcrs again. Arthur McFarland, president of the Afro-American Society, had presented a list of seven grievances to the University Oct. 3. Now it was Dec. 4 and McFarland was not pleased with the consideration his list had been given. He demanded a satisfactory response from the administration hy 5 pm Dec. 6. If none was forthcoming, he promised an expression of discontent Dec. 7 at the ND-UCLA basketball game. McFarland hinted it might be a student demonstration or a boycott hy the five Negro cagers. Since then, he says he has lcarnl·d the impossibility of a boycott. Enter Austin Carr, who, in this era of vanilla-flavored, straight-lace, down-the-middle quotes, is a refreshing interviewee. "I didn't know anything about a boycott until I read it in the OBSERVER," said Austin. "I've only been to one of those Afro-American Society meetings. I just don't have the time. I have practice every day and I'm hustin' my can just to make C's and stay eligible. "I couldn't boycott a game. They'd take my scholarship ••way and then what would I have'! I'd be out of school and maybe they wouldn't get their demands anyway. "I'm willing to help-the black cause as long as I don't hurt myself too much. I just have two more years (of college) to go and I'm not going to mess it up now," Austin concluded. Two events, occurring within a month of each other, made it obvious that Notre Dame's black student was powerless to do more than carry a sign. The Afro-American Society could not usc hlack athletes as a wedge to obtain concessions from the University. Furthermore, the possibility of a black athlete strike here (a Ia California, Wisconsin) was made remote hy the athletes, themsl'lvcs, when they pledged allegiance to their coaches. "We all respect Coach Dec," says Collis Jones. "Take the question of wearing 'naturals', for instance. He never said anything to us about it. But Wl' know how he feels so we keep it at a modcratl' length ·~ "Ara's a good head," says Tony Capers. "When I talk to him, it's man-to-man. He respects you." 







