~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


By Marty Graham In an impromptu meeting yes­
• 
terday, called by former Student 


Body President Richard Rossie, thirteen Seniors discussed tenta­tive plans for revising Senior commencement exercises to in­clude a formalized, non-violent protest to the Vietnam War. 
Those present at this meeting decided to hold an open meeting today at 4pm in the La Fortune Ballroom for all Seniors who are interested in the commencement proposals. 
Rossie slated yesterday that "the ad hoc body, which met today, decided on three tenta­tive revisions for the commence­ment exercises on June 1." 
Siegenthaler, as he spoke last night on American assa~inations. He stated that the first pro­
Vietnam War. We feel that the 
immanent pi.lrticipation of many of our members in the war justifies this revision of the class exercises, speeches, worship i.lnd award ceremonies." 
When asked what the purpose of this movement was, Rossie stated, "This is an attempt by a group of Seniors to protest the war in Vietnam and to demon­strate to our parents, President Nioxn, and the American people, our opposition. Too many of our classmates are going into the military and will be killed needlessly. Our conscience demands that we at least attempt to stop this killing. We arc calling upon the Christian conscience of this University to stand with us, and we specifical­
posal is that the graduating ly appeal to Father llesburgh."• • • Rossie also slated that he got
Seniors wear while armbands at the commencement ceremony. 
the idea for this movement from
Editor blasts legal InJUStice 
Second, that after President 
a remark made by Congressman Nixon's Director of the Council 
Allard Lowenstein, of the 5th
By Dave Lammers 
Siegenthaler was extremely suits with reporters, in Memphis on Urban Affairs Patrick 
Congressional District in Naussa, John Siegenthaler spoke to a critical of the Memphis lrii.ll of the court suppresses investigat­Moynihan addresses those pres­Long Island, in his speech Wed­James l~arl Ray. ions by the press, and in New ent at the ceremony, a student
sparse nowd in the library nesday night. Lowenstein said 
Orleans Garrison mi.lkes full use go up, objecting to the Vietnam
lounge last night concerning the "The search for truth in that there was a petition going
Memphis was quick and of the mass media and the court War, and ask Moynihan to tell
inconsistencies in the A meril"an around the seniors of Yale Uni­
made no attempt to sanction ·Nixon how a number of Notre
leg;il system. cursory," he commented. versity asking that the format of Siegenthaler. the editor of the Siegenlhi.Jler directed ailicism him." Dame's graduating Seniors feel their commencement exercises "Anshville Tennessean," former against the judge, who he alleged "We must take the whole on the war. 
be turned into an anti-war dem­
did not invesliga te the pos­judicial system apart and strip The body's third proposal is
campaign managl~r for Robert onstration. Yale's President Kennedy in California, and a sibility of :~ con~piracy to mur­away the inconsistencies. Is that about three hundred Kingman Brewster told the stu­
Just ice Department official der Dr. King, agamst Ray's Ia w­;\ merica going to continue con­crossed be mounted in the South dents who were circulating the 
fidence in its judicia I system Quad with a sign stating, "Par­
under John Kennedy, considered yer, who look a $150,000 fcc petition that if they got a major­
when there arl' such inconsist­ents, this is what awaits your
the legal weaknesses in the three just to plci.ld Ray guilty, and ity of the seniors' signatures, this ren·nt assasination trials. i.lgi.linst legal suppression of the encies in the administration of son. Stop the war in Vietnam." change would he made. justice? True reform is only At yesterday's meeting it was
"Justin• should be a search press's investigations of tlll' case During yesterday's meeting,going to come when the Amer­also decided to send a petition
f:lf truth," Siegenthaler Si.lid, in Memphis. Rossie stated, "I think that no 
ican people understand these around to the members of the
"hut in the ci.Jsc in New Orleans The trii.ll of Sirlwn in Los matter what the seniors' reaction 
problems. The place of j usticc is Senior class in order to find out
thl~rc was a search for a lie, in Angt•lcs, Siegenthaler said, is, something will he done; but it 
not a h<~llowed place, but is a their reactions to the revision of
Memphis there was no search, provl·d thi.lt "you can get would be best if we were organ­
cauldron of controversy where the commencement exercises.
and 111 l.os Angeles there was i.ln doctors to say about anything." ized and had a mi.ljori ty of the 
there is a great room for error," The resolution of this petition
ovcrscard1 thi.lt d;11nagcd the "One million dollars was class to go along with us." 
Siegenthaler said. states, "We, the undersigned
psyclwlogic<JI profession." spent in Los Angeles only to Senior J ocl Connelly stated, 
Concerning the resignation of members of-the class of 1969,
Siegenthaler was very critic<.~! determine the mental capacity "Right now, we are not very
Abc Fortas, Siegenthaler said request that our commencement
of New Orlei.Jns District of the ddcndent." well organized, but are very
that it was a "tragedy for him ceremony be revised to accom­
Attorney Jim (;arrison's attempt Siegenthaler revealed that the hopeful. If all goes, well, this 
and the people that supported modate an extensive, non-vio­
to convict ('Jay Shaw of a .i udgc in the Los Angeles case movement can be both meaning­
him." lent, non-disruptive demonstra­
conspiral·y to ass<.~sinate John had told i.l Los Angeles Times ful and dignified."
tion of our objection to the
Kennedy. reporter the day before the trial "Shaw h<.~d nothing to do with that Sirhan was going to plead it," Siegt•nthaler said. guilty. The Times ran an eight 
Student hurt in GP time trials 
Siegenthaler Wi.lS critical of column story on the hasis of the ( ;arrison showing the Zi.lprudcr judge's infornwtion, and then Bv John Simone on the sidelines," he si.lid. be purchased on a daily basis. film of the Kennedy assasination Sirhan's lawyers did not plead "A bli.lnket insurance policy Folks also commented that
I:elly Flynn of Howard IIall 
covers everyone working in the
to the New Orle<.~nsjury. guilty as the judge had pre-.• the drivers have had over 52 
1 was injured in the leg yesterday
"It is a shocking film that was dieted. races. This includes the specta­hours to practice, and added,
in the Grand Prix lime trials. 
tors in the stands," he added.
repeatt•dly shown to the jurors "What is the logic of pre-trial "there is no reason why a driver
Kim Kristoff of Cavanaugh Hall,
tll enrage them against Clay publicity?" Siegenthaler asked. Folks said that everyone should be inexperienced.
who collided with him, ex­
working in the pits was required
Shaw," Siegenthaler said. "In Los Angeles the judge con-He also said, "we don't expect
plained what happened in his 
to buy a pit pass for 50 cents. 
any casualties on Saturday. Withown words: The proceeds will cover the cost the exception of today's acci­
"I was following behind him 
of the extensive insurance plan. 
dent, everything has been run­
and we were making a right turn 
There arc over 100 people work­
Kelly to head Model UN 
ning smoothly."
going towards the pits when one 
ing in the pits, and the pass must 
of the drivers ahead of me tried
Uy Glen Corso •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
to pass Flynn. Both drivers 
: With this issue the Obserl'er concludes volume : 
The general framework of egates from each nation." He accelerated and came too close," 
: three after 137 editions. The Observer will resume •
went on to say that the makeup he said. 
next year's SUAC sponsored 
service to the Notre Dame and St. Mary's college :
Model UN was i.lnnounced yes­of the general assembly will "at­"When Flynn slammed on his terday hy SU AC associate com­tempt to follow the real UN brakes and fish-tailed into my community next fall on September 12 with a : 
missioner Mike Kelly. Kelly was general assembly." path, I hit him diagonally," freshman orientation issue. • appointed chairman of the event The conference is tentatively Kristoff said. scheduled for the second week
hy SUi\C head Pat Dowdall. Flynn's leg was run over and on the Inside Tentatively the four issues in April. was badly bruised. · He was Notre Dame--one year in one picture-page 10 that will confront the assembly "Anyone desiring to be a rushed to St. Joseph Hospital in are: Red Chinese Admission, chairman of a delegation will a state of shock. However, the 
Thieman bows out as music critic-page 2
Arab-Israeli relations, a current have to include a rationale as to x-rays revealed that nothing was popular crisis, and a completely the way his country would prob­broken. 
Viet Cong respond to Nixon's plea-page 3 
manufactured crisis, that will be ably vote," Kelly declared. Bob Folks, chairman of the kept secret until the last mo­Grand Prix races said, "I believe
Kelly stressed that i.lnyonc Ed-in-chief O'Meilia researches Nau report-page 4 
ment. the accident would not have
that was interested could apply happened if the driver had been
According to Kelly, the Model as a delegate. He commented Gaffney expounds on Catholic Worker-page 7 
more experienced. He got caught
UN will he open to all NO further saying he needed people in heavy traffic and panicked."
students, all SM<' girls, and all for "Executive Co-ordinator, Summa Hits 81 %-page 4 
Folks also commented on the
students at the Indiana Univer­Finance director, Deleg;Jte Dir­
safety precautions planned for
sity extension in South Bend. ector, Arr<~ngement Director, Grand Prix Pix-page 12 Sal urday's events.
Kelly said that "there will be and Research Director." All "There will be an ambulance DeSapio calls for change-page 6 
one-hundred and thirty coun­applications should be directed tries represented, with three del-to 137 Breen-Phillips. with a tri.lined physicii.ln waiting ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 

PAGE 2 
FRIDAY, MAY 16, 19"69 
CUT THIS OUT 
~FLIGHTS 

FROM CHICAGO (CDT) 
TO USE FOR QUICK REFERENCE ON YOUR TRIP HOME 
Leave Arrive Freq. Flight No. St~ps 
TO: BOSTON 
0 815a 12 2lp Daily 142 1 0 11 30a 2 30p Daily 434 NON-STOP 0 6 35p 9 43p Daily 120 NON-STOP 
flllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllil 

TO: KANSAS CITY 
0 12 45a 157 a Daily 83 NON-STOP 0 10 05a 1129a Daily 193 NON-STOP 0 120p 2 35p Daily 419 NON-STOP 0 3 lOp 4 25p Daily 335 NON-STOP 0 440p 5 58p Daily 519 NON-STOP 0 6OOp 7 20p Daily 437 NON-STOP 0 7 30p 8 48p Daily 423 NON-STOP M 815p 9 18p Daily 511 NON-STOP 0 905p 10 20p Daily 359 NON-STOP 0 1115p 12 23a Ex Sa 442 NON-STOP 
illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 

TO: LOS ANGELES 
0 105a 2 52a Daily 15 NON-STOP 
0 8 35a 10 27a Daily 29 NON-SitlP 0 1115a 105p Daily 117 NON-STOP 0 115p 3 2lp Daily 27 NON-STOP 0 5OOp 709p Daily 771 NON-STOP 0 705p 8 57p Daily 25 NON-STOP 010 15p 12 lla Daily 17 NON-STOP 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
0 6OOa 0 730a 0 8 30a 0 9 30a 0 9 30a 0 10 30a 0 II 30a 0 12 30p 0 12 30p 0 130p 0 2 30p 0 2 30p 0 3OOp 0 3 30p 0 4 30p 0 5 30p 0 5 30p 0 6 30p 0 7 30p 0 8 30p 
TO:  
K  8 47a  Da1ly  106  
L L  10 18a 11 18a  Da1ly Ex Su Sa  310 314  
N 12 15p  Daily  122  
L L L  12 18p 116p 2 14p  Daily Daily Daily  318 322 326  
L N L L  3 14p 3 15p 4 20p 5 20p  Daily Ex Sa Daily Ex Sa  330 138 334 338  
N K L  5 22p 6 25p 6 20p  Ex Sa Daily Daily  134 904 342  
L L N  7 20p 8 22p 8 27p  Daily Ex Sa Daily  346 350 430  
L L  9 22p 10 20p  Daily Daily  354 358  
N 11 18p  Ex Sa  150  

NON-STOP NON-STOP NON-STOP NON-STOP NON-STOP NON-STOP NON-STOP NON-STOP NON-STOP NON-STOP NON-STOP NON-STOP NON-STOP NON STOP NON-STOP NON-STOP NON-STOP NON-STOP NON SfOP NON-STOP 
llllllltllllllllllllllllltilllllllllfllllllllll 
TO: PHll...ADELPHL4\ 
0  9 OOa  11 42a  Ex Su  190  NON-STOP  
0 11 OOa  138p  Daily  178  NON-STOP  
0 135p  4 13p  Daily  146  NON-STOP  
0 2 30p 0 5 30p  5 08p 8 15p  Daily Daily  118 110  NON-STOP NON-STOP  
0 6 55p 0 8OOp 0 9 15p  9 45p 10 41p ll55p  Ex Sa Daily Ex Sa  184 196 144  NON-STOP NON-STOP NON-STOP  

lllllllllllllllllllflllllllflTIIIIII11111fl111111 


TO: PITTSBURGH 
0 8 15a 10 28a Daily 142 NON-STOP 0 10 OOa 12 24p Daily 552 NON-STOP 0 11 30a 145p Daily 494 NON-STOP 0 llOp 328p Daily 329 NON-STOP 0 3 15p 5 39p Daily 22 NON-STOP 0 5 lOp 7 30p Daily 202 NON-STOP 0 6 05p 8 25p Daily 116 NON-STOP 0 805p 10 20p Daily 26 NON-STOP 0 9 15p 11 30p Daily 420 NON-STOP 
lllllllllllllllflllllllllllllllllllllllllfllllll 

TO: SAN FRANCISCO I OAKLAND 
0 I 05a S 445a Daily 15 1 
0 8 40a S I 0 44a Daily 135 NON-STOP 
0 1115a S 120p Daily 175 NON-STOP 
0 115p S 3 23p Daily 137 NON-STOP 
0 305p S 5 13p Daily 221 NON-STOP 
0 4 45p S 6 53p Daily 111 NON-STOP 
0 7OOp 0 910o Daily 131 NON-STOP 
0 7 30 p 5 9 43 p Daily 849 NON-STOP 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllatllll 

TO: WASHINGTON D.C. 
NON--~iTOP
F"pl138 A 
900A Daily 104 F'p410P 135 p Daily 168 
NON-STOP 
NON-STOP
Na 5 10 P 2 30 p Daily 
422 F'p 8 17 P 540 p Daily 180 
NON-STOP 
NON-STOP
Na 8 40 P 600P Daily 
424 F"p 9 59 P 
One-stop
M06 45 P Daily 503 Nato oo P 7 20 p Ex Sa 426 
NON-STOP_ 
F'p1117 P 8 45 P Ex Sa 158 NON-STOP 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllJlllllllllllllll 

~ ONE WAY JET COACH FARES 
BOSTON $ 51.00 PHILADELPHIA 42.00 KANSAS CITY 30.00 PITTSBURG ;30.00 Los ANGELES 106.00 SAN FRANCISCO 106.00 NEW YORK 45.00 WASHINGTON 39.00 
H~LF /F~RE lRAVEL PLAN-REDUCED FARES AVAILABLE fOR PER­
BASIS AT 50% OF NORMAL JET COACH FARES IN THE U.S.A. 

GET YOUR TICKETS IN AD VANCE AT THE TRAVEL AGENCY LOCATED IN 
BADIN HALL  
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL:  -TWA Campus Rep. Tim Meskill -Travel Agency in Badin Hall  282-2493  
-TWA Re~ervation Office  232-1414  


Stellar concert 
The Student Union Social Commission is sponsoring, in conjunction with the Grand Prix weekend, a ·~concert Under the Stars" this Saturday, May 17,at 
8:30 on the St. Mary's Lake by Holy Cross Hall. 
This is an experiment by the social commission to see whether or not the ND/SMC campus will respond to low-key, low-cost concerts. The key word of the concert is quality with informality. 
The freatured performers will be The Authentically Maerrywhethre, a group based in Nashville that has appeared several times on the ND/SMC cam pus. The Maerrywhethre were selected to be the closing act at the recent Collegiate Folk Festival at Stepan Center. 
The concert will also have performances by the best in local campus talent. 
1-------8-0-M-B--------, gains control, because that creates fads and stifles free, spontaneous 
HONG KONG 
NOW! 
Contact Chris Cheng, 325 Badin, for details. 





Attention!
I 
P 
Family Stone, or Flatt and Scruggs. To me, good music, music that I
I
0 Omore like, is music that somehow extends from the artist's unconscious (his life force or whatever it is that drives him) and penetrates my
S h 

Class 

Order Your Class Rings Now 
• 

T0 Prace Vour 0r e d a Deposit is Required 
Hours: 1:30 to 4:30 P.M. captures on record; and they are right here in our midst, known only 
Monday throu9h Friday 
• 
THE 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
• 

Where the art is in modern music 
This is my swan-song: as I leave behind the all-embracing security that is Notre Dame, my own dome is running over with musical thoughts that demand expression. Tom Ehrbar, my amiable boss who has so patiently endured my journalistic irregularity this year, has graciously granted me this final space to unleash what might have been about ten columns worth of verbiage. Here is an anthology of the most essential a! (at least to me) of what I have yet to say, being of quasi-sound mind and somehow enduring body. 
I have managed to work my way through an entire year of reviews of Cream, the Beatles, the Moody Blues, Moby Grape, etc., perhaps creating the illusion that I profess some quantity of objective knowledge of music. The fact of the matter is that l am merely, yes merelv. expressing my own likes and occasional dislikes. I don't fancy myself a real critic, for I am Jacking absolutes. Actually, I have only one absolute, and that is the one condition that I place on what is otherwise a sincere love of all music. The single condition is that I ask only for sincerity in music, and I am instinctively repelled by groups that do music for some other sake than music. Naturally, it would be naive to claim that the Beatles or Hendrix or any successful popular artist considers money a mere by-product of the quest for great musical art. But there is a definite distinction between those people who make money through making music that really comes from themselves, and those people who make money through making music that they know people will,pay money for. It is the distinction between the artist winning an audience, and the audience controlling the music. It is a hindrance when the audience 
creativity on the part of the artist. 

FEATURE 
by Bill Thieman 

The Beatles may always be the ultimate group because they play what they want and it is totally up to us to accept it or reject it. Great music is a passion that comes from the unconscious, perhaps from the heartbeat or from the rhythm of orgasm, and the less restraint the conscious has over that passion, the more alive the music is. This energy, this life is what makes you jump around, sing, snap your fingers, or just lay there simultaneously overwhelmed and exhilirated when you hear real music, whether it's Bach, Sly and the 
own. That is my only absolute: music appeals to me when the chord of the artist's soul is in the same key as my own. The effect is totally intangible; it cannot be reduced to a certain combination of lyrics and music, or a certain blend of instruments, or a certain range of musical forms, but it is the interplay of all these things with my own receptive mood. The greatest beauty of music is that it is alive and in motion and that its life depends on good receivers as well as transmitters. If music is communication, it must be bilateral, so their is creativity in listening too. It is an art simply to appreciate mus;c, an art that requires the same openness that the truly artistic 
performer must exhibit. 
There is still a good deal of fine music on the top-forty scene. James Brown is with it because he really enjoys his music, and a man who does hundreds of personal appearances every year must really dig communicating his own enthusiasm to droves of wild, happy fans. Otis Redding will inevitably by my favorite "soul man," and "Dock of the Bay" will never cease to have the way-down-deep knack of instantly tripping the well-hidden switch that sets off one of those smiles with tears right behind it. And now, for those who don't already know it, the climax of this confession: I have always liked and will always like the King, Elvis, and Tupelo bad boss man. Elvis loves to sing and I am more than happy to listen; he is coming back and there is nothing that the greasophobia sufferers can do about. The complexity that has grown in music over the last few years has reached a limit for some people. people who have found that simple, honest, finger-lick in' good music hits them just right. Elvis anticipated that with his TV special and he will be riding the waves again with his forthcoming album. Dig up your gold-sequined suits and your blue-suede shoes. 
In the light of all this I have two more opinions to offer. One is about a record. If there is any album anywhere right now that spans the black, seething, wild, unconscious selves of performers and listeners it is Led Zeppelin. That album touches darker areas of the psyche than I ever thought music would; if Poe were alive today he 
might well be with Jimmy Page's group. Final opinion number two: there is a performing group that has achieved the kind of inter-soul communication that Zeppelin 
to most as First Friday. Thses four happy madmen make perfect hardrock together and individually, and they can make good listeners out of almost anyone. John Pendergast is a musical octopus that plays a different instrument with every tentacle and who sings "Mustang Sally" when they've got that kind of audience; Andy Wallace, a man of many hats, sings head vocal with infinite range and plays organ, piano, bass, and wierd, primitive percussion isntruments (his great hope is to someday learn the words to Hendrix's "Come On, Part I"). Jim Stynes is, to say the least, a fast drummer with a jazz background; to say more, he is inventive and knits their frequent jame together; to say it all, he is drumness. ____ (absence of any adequate adjective) Norm Zeller smiles abashedly through hair-blinded eyes at his screaming red little Les Paul Gibson, but somewhere behind that shy front hides that beautiful absolute pride that must come from being truly one with a musical instrument. While "Jeff's Boogie" blares in the background, Norm Zeller is climbing the same fiery, golden tower overlooking rock music that I have seen only Eric Clapton, Jeff Beck, Jimmy Page, and Alvin Lee attempt to climb. First Friday will be heading to the New 
, York-Long Island hard rock launching pad this summer. Those who ignored their books, the time, and the cold to hear them under
on-the-campus 

Gilbert's arch last Thursday know that they do not need to be 

THE OBSERVER 
PAGE 3 
-------------------------------------------------·· --I 
Viet Cong reject plans 
PARIS (UPI) The Viet Secretary of State William P. statement issued by his office Cong yesterday rejected Presi­Rogers praised President Nixon's and read over national radio
a -television hookup.
dent Nixon's call for a gradual Vietnam peace plan and and controlled withdrawal of President Nguyen Van Thieu foreign troops from South Viet­issued a special statement Thieu said the Nixon nam. But it carefully left the warmly endorsing it. proposals for a phased door open for bargaining on "Once again President Nixon withdrawal of non-South other parts of Nixon's eight has shown his good will in Vietnamese troops over a 12 point peace plan. seeking serious and useful month period "were not 
In a 10 line communique, the discussions with the Communist opposite" to those of the Saigon Viet Cong's delegation to the side in order to restore peace in government and were being Vietnam conference in Paris Vietnam," Thieu said in a "studied carefully." brushed aside the proposal for the pullout of all foreign troops-North Vietnamese as 
Turnbull announces 
well as allied soldiers -as an old hat, "unreasonable" demand already rejected many times by 
Judicial Board head 
the Communist side. 
But the Viet Cong's National SBP Susan Turnbull an­pretty cruelly stated," but spon­L iherat ion Front limited its nounced that senior Barbara Orr soring legislation, as the Judicial attack to the first three points in will head the Cam pus Judicial Board did to change Sign Out Nixon's Wednesday night pro­Board next year. regulations in October, provides posals all touching on the sub­Selected through interviews an alternative course of action. ject ~>f mutual withdrawal of by the Executive Council of The appointments made by North Vietnamese, American, Student Government, other the Executive Council arc sub­and other allied for~.:es. members of the Board include: ject to approval by the Student 
The remaining five points in seniors Fran Carroll, Denise Assembly. Nixon's plan dealt with interna­Acampora, Mary Lou Cotroneo, tional supervision of the with­juniors Maureen Mcinerney, Ann drawal and elections, the release Goehausen and sophomore Course of prisoners of war, and respect Kathy Shelton. for the international agreements With the abolishment of Hall 
evaluations 
on neighboring Laos and Judicial Boards, the Campus Cambodia. Board has become responsible 11he course evaluation q ues­North Vietnamese officials for handling infractions of all tionnaires that arc being passed gave an indication of the student regulations. 
around this week are the prod­importance they attached to Miss Orr explained that the uct of the Office of Institutional 
Nixon's proposals when they philosophy of the Board will Studies. Dean Devere Plunkett 
announced their chief evolve, but that her view of the said that the results will be 
negotiator, Xuan Thuy had Judicial System follows the lines tabulated and available to the 
cancelled a scheduled trop to set by this year's Board: "A rule teachers in about two weeks. 
Stockholm for a pea~.:e rally, so or law should only protect the "The purpose of the ques­he could he on hand at today's community; if it does not do 
tionaire is to give the teacher a formal session of the peace this, it is not good." Miss Orr 
view of himself, and also giveconfrontation. agreed that the Judicial Board's 
him some idea as to how he can South Vietnamese officials power to interpret regulations is 
improve his presentation," meeting yesterday with limited: "The rules now are 
Plunkett said. 
STUDENT UNION CALENDAR FOR THE WEEK OF MAY 16 TO MAY 22 
FRIDAY, MAY 16 

6:30pm TRI-CLASS PROM Champagne Party at Holly's Restaurant. Admission Free with Invitation. 8:00pm Senior PRE-Prom Dinner In Mahogany Room of ACC. 
9:00pm TRI-CLASS PROM-"MAC ARTHUR's PARK" with Ken Morris and his band and "The Empire" In Stepan center. 
10:00 pm Senior Class Prom In ACC 'til 2:00am, 
SATURDAY, MAY 17 

8:00am Golf: NO vs. Eastern Michigan, Western Illinois, Miami of Ohio, Central Michigan, Valparaiso, and 
1:00pm 1:30pm 8:30pm  Cincinnati. Tennis: ND vs. Bradley. FIRST ANNUAL GRAND PRIX RACE IN ACC PARKING LOT. ADMISSION $1.50. SPON­SORED BY STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COM­MISSION FOR GRAND PRIX SCHOLARSHIP. PUBLIC INVITED. GRAND PRIX CONCERT, "CONCERT UNDER THE STARS" FEATURING COLLEGE ENTER­TAINMENT. ON LAWN IN FRONT OF HOLY CROSS. ADMISSION $1.00. PUBLIC INVITED.  
SUNDAY, MAY 18  
9:30am  TRI-CLASS PROM SUNDAY BRUNCH at the Morris Inn, with the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, CSC, as speaker. $5.00 per couple.  
TUESDAY, MAY 20  
LAST CLASS DAY  
WEDNESDAY, MAY 21  

FINAL EXAMS BEGIN 

A II articles for Student Union Calendar should be submitted before Wednesday at 3:00 pm the week before it is to appear. 
... A SERVICE OF STUDENT UNION 





OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS APARTMENTS 
_.,..

-_,. 



-TOTAL ELECTRIC LIVING-A new concept In student living 
THESE APARTMENT BUILDINGS ARE LOCATED JUST SOUTH OF THE CAMPUS ON NOTRE DAME A VENUE. EACH APARTMENT IS DESIGNED FOR FOUR STUDENTS AND IS COMPLETELY MODERN IN EVERY DE­
TAIL 

SOME OUTSTANDING FEATURE'S: -Private Patios and Balconies -Air Conditioning -Kitchen with Range, Refrigerator and Garbage Disposals. -Cooking Utensils, Dishes, Silverware, etc. -Wall to Wall Carpeting -Party Bar -Soundproof Constrnction -Prewired forT. V., Phone -Lighted/Paved Parking Area -Comvletely Furnished 
SUMMER APARTMENTS AVAILABLE NOW 

NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS 
APARTMENT LAYOUT 
-For Rental Information-Call -272-5525 

PAGE 4 


THE OBSERVER 
FRIDAY, MAY 16, 1969 

=-------~~~----------------------~~~~ 
Tim O'Meilia

Fortas resigns under fire 
Nau,Nau 

WASHINGTON (UPI) agreement in June, 1966, be­a resignation under fire­
,................................ 
Justice Abe Fortas resigned cause of his heavy court work­-unprecedented in the 180 year 
The Nau Commission Report, Charles J. Nau, South Bend, lnd:
under fire from the Supreme load and possibility at that point history of the Supreme Court­
McCarragher Publishing Co., 141 pages plus appendices, priceless. 
Court yesterday acknowledging that the Justice Department might be taken as an admission 
After three months of research and testimony the "Report of the
he had accepted a $20,000 might prosecute Wolfson on of guilt, Fortas pleaded 
Student Life Council Subcommittee on the Student Union
annual fee from a convicted criminal charges. Wolfson was innocence and said he was step­
Academic Commission's Conference on Pornography and
stock manipulator's foundation convicted on separate charges in ping down for the sake of the 
Censorship" has been released; and it will rival the Walker and
but insisting his judicial duties September and October and For­court. 
Kerner commission reports in length of official name if not in 
were not compromised. tas said-without explaining the 
But there was no sign that the content. ·
President Nixon accepted the delay-that he returned the 
furor would end soon. Although The report has yet to be accepted by the SLC as a whole and, as
resignation effective $20,000 in December, 1966. 1 
preparations were dropped in yet, its recommendations have not been included. There is probably
immediately. This ended the The justice said Wolfson had 
the House for the first impeach­no reason why the report will not be accepted by the council. The
possibility of Fortas' spoken to him and sent him 
ment of a Supreme Court justice repQrt is a thorough, concise, clear and not altogehter dry
impeachment by Congress and material about his problems with 
since 1804, there were calls in description of the events surrounding the Pornography and 
gave Nixon the chance to name the Securities and Exchange 
Congress for an investigation of Censorship Conference plus a thoughtful and, I think, perceptive
two new nustices who could Commission, "but I have not 
the Fortas affair by his fellow analysis of those events. 
substantially alter the -court's interceded or taken part in any 
justices, by a special panel of the The chronology of events is, at times, caustic and humouous,
activist legal philosophy under legal, administrative or j ucicial 
American Bar Association or by perhaps betraying the writer of certain sections as being Nau. At one
retiring Chief Justice Earl matter affecting Mr. Wolfson or 
a federal grandj ury. point the report relates that Father M<."Carragher, tongue-in-cheek,
Warren. anyone associated with him." 
accused the cops of walking off with the student center's copies of
In a separate letter to Warren, He had only agreed, he said, 
Senate leaders Mike Mansfield 
Esquire "'and this is a pretty good issue."' At another point it
Fortas confirmed that in to help shape the foundation's 
and Everett Dirksen promised 
describes David Kahn's "connatural relationship" with his "Bell and 
January, 1966, three months activities promoting racial and 
that all future presidential 
Howell 550 manual lead" projector.
after he joined the court, he religious cooperation. appointments would be invest­
Another humorous episode during a very serious day is described,
received a $20,000 check as first "There has been no wrong igated more intensively. 
"According to McElory, I attempted to resist their departure by
payment in a long term financial doing on my part," Fortas said, 
Mansfield furthermore called for 
lying down infront of theirautomobile...A gentleman, and I use
arrangement with the family "there has been no default in the public disclosure laws governing 
the term loosely, ran up to the car on the driver's side and yelled at
foundation of financier Louis E. performance of my judicial 
the driver. . .'run over the bastard. Get out of here'.. .I made a quick
Wolfson, now serving a one-year duties in accordance with the the executive and judicial 
value judgment as to whether or not I should be idealistic or
prison term for violating federal high standards of the office I branccs no less tough than those 
practical, and I elected to be practical.' 
securities regulations. hold." adopted by the House and 
"A second student in a similar position also opted for
Fortas said he ended the While some observers felt that Senate. 
practicality." 

At another point Kathy Cecil could not understand how the police spotted the roll of film hidden beneath her dress. The report comm~nts, "We suggest that a mini-skirt of the length Miss Cecil wears Js not too effective for hiding a 16-inch reel of film."







GUTS! 
A few quotations from Marty McNamara's precise amstery of English were also appropriate: "The guy was tearing the film, he was nppmg It ~tf as he was going and he was a policeman. Nobody does that to a film, you know. I mean, like which to me is really a mortal blow...as far as_ I could tell, he (the policeman) got on the ground because he was tJTed or more, you know, because he just you know felt something like faint." ' ' 
Not ~II of the report was entertaining. It arrives at some very grave concluswns. Perhaps the most significant criticism the subcommittee made was in suggesting the University make "a careful assessment of the conditions under which civil authorities will be invited to the ca~~~s. l!nless there is threat of bodily harm or grave damage to f~ciht_Ies, It seems_ bett~r that police be excluded from use preventing VI?Iatwns of university rules or civil laws insofar as possible. Vwlat~rs can, an~ sh_ould, be prosecuted for their actions after the fact Wlth_out subJe_ctmg the University to the grave psychological ~nd poss~bly physical, damage that too often accompanies polic~
mterventwn." It .~astig~,ted ~~th the "left" (Richard Kelly, Andrew Noren) and ~e. n?ht (Cit~zen_s for Decent Literature) for pressuring the The itch in the seat of your pants to go out and drive a competition racing 
mvers1ty and usmg It for their own ends. Kelly and Noren deceived machine backs to the walls at 145 MPH? But can't afford the $7000.00 price 
both the administration and the Academic Commission and presented what they desired, and the CDL, protector of freedom
tag. 

badgere_d the University to suppress the film, and finally filed complamt. 
The subcommittee considered the prosecutor's warrant illegal and 1~~ HP-1.45 MPH -Radial tires, oil cooler, 15 inch wire wheels, rack and 
his seizure of the "Kodak Ghost Films" in violation of the first and pmiOn ~teermg and a healthy 6 hanger coupled to an all syncro 4 speed with 
fourteenth amendments as well as numerous other Indiana state ~aws. "~he sei~ure of any form of speech before its publication is
over-dnve as standard equipment. You supply the GUTS; We'll supply the 
Illegal smce th1s is a prior restraint," the report says. However, it
car. 

believes that arrests could be made for showing the film with
MGC Roadster $3378, delivered; 
knowledge of its contents. 
Other interesting points: Dean Lawless did accuse Mroz of sabotaging his Law Day Centennial and threatened to have him PEPPERS MOTORS 
see Jaguar George at 
expelled.... Professor Michelson did not lead or instigate the events of February 7, and was, in fact, a primary moderating force. 
3105 W. Sample 
All which goes to remind me that when Rembusch cancelled the
South Bend, Ind. 
conference, he promised to make arrangements to return delegate
Phone: 289-7788 
fees. I never got mine back. 
African institute 

An institute in sub-Saharan Africa for Christian missionaries, religious and lay, will be held here June 16-July I I. 
The four-week institute, spon­sored by Notre Dame's African studies program will provide an introduction to the historical, social economic and political conditions of tribal Africa. 
Janos Farago would wish all his acquaintances on campus to get in touch with him by May 22nd. 
The Observer is published dally
~ 
during the college semester except vacations by the students of the 
-
1' 
University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage 
-! ~~tie 


"t.iw • 
paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 




FRIDAY, MAY 16, 1969 

THE OBSERVER 

PAGES 


Smith named gov't Ombudsman by Landry 
Student Government Execu­tive Coordinator Larry Landry has announced that junior Jim Smith has been appointed Stu­dent Government Ombudsman. Smith is the former president of St. Ed's. As Ombudsman, he will become the "troubleshooter" for student problems. 
In making the announcement, Landry said that the Ombuds­man would become "actively through which they can relate to student government," said the Executive Coordinator. 

The job of the Ombudsman will be to answer any questions and to solve any problems of the students, or to direct those q ues­tions and problems to someone who can give the student satis­faction. 
Both Landry and Smith men­often means solving the small problems of campus and off­campus living. 

Smith felt that his new job had two objectives. 
"Basically, one part is trouble­shooting for student govern­ment; the other is relating stu­dent government to the student body," said the new Ombuds­man. 
he would suggest changes that Student Government should make campus-wide to prevent further problems. 
Smith noted that the Ombudsman was responsible to all the students, on and off­campus. Junior Brian O'Shaughnessy will represent the Ombudsman in the off-campus office, while junior Bill Picchioni will work through the Hall Presi­
dents Council in the area of hall life. "Basically, the idea is communication," said Smith. 
"There has been a lot of just criticism in recent years that student government hasn't reached the students. I sec a tremendous potential in the Om­budsman position for personal­izing the University and student government." 
the(-:ongr-essm-ensh-ould-con-4tacl *STAY AT THE BEAUTIFUL SHERATON
him in 137 Breen-Phillips. 

involved in all phases of student tioned that the size of the prob­He added that as a trouble­government." lem was not important. The job shooter, he would try to deter­"The Ombudsman will give of the Ombudsman is to improve mine "trends" in the problems students a constant channel the life of the student and that of students. From these trends 
SMC faculty dinner honors retirees 
Seven retiring Saint Mary's College faculty members with a total of 227 years of service and this year's outstanding professor were honored Wednesday at the annual faculty dinner on the Saint Mary's campus. 
Named the outstanding facul­ty member for 1968-69 was Dr. William A. Hickey, associate pro­fessor of biology, for his "emi­nent contributions to the general development of the college." lie was presented the Spes Unica cash award of $100 by Sister M. Alma, C.S.C., academic dean. 
The selection  was  made by the  
school's  academic  affairs  coun­ 
cil.  

An authority on the genetics of mosquitos, Hickey has worked extensively with the World llealth Organization in projects relating to the insect-

Congressmen to speak 
Congressmen William Steiger (Wisconsin), Donald E. Lukens (Ohio), and Marvin Esch (Mich­igan) will he on campus Wednes­day to interview students as a part of a fact finding tour invest­igating the causes for unrest on American college campuses. 

borne diseases. He has been a 
Saint  Mary's  faculty  member  
since 1959.  
The  seven  faculty  members  

retiring as of the end of the academic year were pre sen ted scrolls by college president Rt. Rev. Msgr. John J. McGrath and were awarded emeritus ranking in ceremonies following the din­ncr. 
Receiving the rank of profes­sor emeritus were Sister Annice, C.S.C., professor of psychology, and Sister Maria Piela, C.S.C., professor of English, former vice-president of the college and currently alumnae coordinator. 
The rank of Associate Profes­sor Emeritus was awarded to Miss Louise A. Cavanaugh, of the Economics and Business Department; Mrs. Ruth Ingalls Pielder, Special Education; Sis­ter Maria Teresa, C.S.C., English; Sister Marie Anastasia, C.S.C., English Department member, former Dean of the college and since I 965 college Archivist. 
Sister Maria Luisa, of the Spanish Department, who has spent over 62 years at Saint Mary's as student, sister and teacher, also was retired with emeritus rank. 
Msgr. McGrath announced fol­lowing the dinner the promotion of five faculty members. 
Promoted to Associate profes­sor were Dr. Dorothy Feig], chemistry department, Sister Maria Concepta, C.S.C. Educa­tion department, Dr. Robert Nowlan, mathematics and Sister Margaret Wodetzki, Chemistry. 
Lemuel Joyner, instructor in the art department was pro­moted to the rank of assistand professor, Msgr. announced. 






" . ti"1J$... 

,tsKfor... Of\lmN-\L Pai»t Blue Ribbo~tro 
Pabst Brewing Company, Milwa~kee, Peoria Heishts, Newark, Loa Afl&eln · 

BE A SWINGER! 
and own your own Polaroid ­It's easy, Just pick up your own CRIPTO Pen at the BOOKSTORE and receive a lucky. number from the cashier. 
The next drawing will be held May 19. 
According to former Young Republican chairman Mike Kelly, the congressmen will he here "on a fact finding tour, sponsored by themselves, to find out what's going on on the campuses. They've asked me to arrange a meeting between them and some of the campus activists 
on the left. Kelly also slated that any student interested in talking to 
-
RIVER PARK 
MISHAWAKA AVE. at 30th PHONE 288-8488 
''I'm IT" "IT happened 
to mel" 
TECHNICOLOR llnrted Artrsts 
(:J 
Times: Weekdays 7:00, 9:05 Sat & Sun 2:05, 4:20 6:40, 9:05 


DELTA HOTEL 
.WATCH THE IRISH DESTROY TULANE IN THE SUGAR BOWL 
•ENJOY THE ''FUN CITY'' OF THE SOUTH 
********* 

COST $135 DEPOSIT $15 
Sign-up Tuesday, May 20, 6:30-8:00 P.M. 
in the Coke Bar of the Student Center 


Sorry, Fall reservations Cannot Be Accepted 


THE GREAT ONE: NEW ORLEANS '69 
F D f
our ays 0 Fun In flte Sun October 23 -26 


FRIDAY, MAY 16, 1969

THE OBSERVER.

PAGE 6 
------~--------------------­


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper TIMOTHY J. O'MEILIA, Editor-in-Chief DONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Executive Editor DAVID M. BREEN, Business Manager FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDiANA 
•

Fee 1ncrease 
THE OBSERr/ER. Hank Bell, Managing Editor Bill Mitchell, Senior Editor Carolyn Gatz, Senior Editor Guy DeSapio, News Editor Glenn Corso, News Editor Jim Prisby, Ass't News Editor Dave Stauffer, Copy Editor Cliff Wintrode, Associate Editor Ted Price, Associate Editor Mary Beth Crimmins, Layout Ed. Tom Ehrbar, Features Editor Phil Bosco, Photo and Art Ed. John McDermott, Photographer Walt Hopkins, Photographer SPORTS STAFF CARTOONISTS Mike Pavlln Editor Shaun Reynolds Kim KristoffTerry Shields John Heinrich Pete Bruderle Mark Grantham LAYOUT Don Kennedy Tim Pflum Patty LipscombLarry Lang Chuck Darst John Sellinger NEWS STAFF Pat Anderson Dave Bach Sara Ballard Bruce BowlesChanning Brackey Ann Conway Dave Fromm Martin GrahanLaura Haferd John Haley Bill Holley Chuck JacksonDan Koehler Dave Lammers Bill Markle Mike MooneyP.J. Moran Jim Raley Phil Schatz Ann ScheidlerBob Schueler John Simone Gary Stofick Jeanne SweenyGinger Updike Mike van Remortel Tim Westman BUSINESS STAFF Tim Dineen, Advertising Mgr. Edward Schreck, Subscriptions Mgr. James Shoemaker, Circ. Mgr.Nancy Erd_man Sue Bourdin Tom Lemker Tom CashoreSteve Dollmger Tom Schreck Jim Flanagan Claudio Cerulli SALESMENPaul Godbout Tim Monty Bill Luking  

For the third time in three years the student body will be asked to approve a Student Government activities fee increase. Approval of the referendum would raise the present fee from $16 to $18. We have been told that the additional $12,000 which the two dollar increase will net will be spent toward the alleviation of a $45,000 debt incurred by the Student Government over the past two years. 
Last year's approval of a six dollar increase has resulted in a Rossi adminis­tration debt of approximately $10,000, depending upon the success of tomorrow's Grand Prix. The entire $45,000 sum is owed to the University, which has always picked up the tab for overexpenditures by Student Government, in either the form of loans or outstanding debts. We were as­sured at Monday night's Senate meeting that if a substantial portion of the debt is not eliminated soon, the University will not be willing back up Student Government when it loses money. 
When considering the referendum, two questions are essential in making a de­cision: first, the elimination of the debt itself, and second, the possibility of losing money again next year. 
There are two ways to pay the debt: appropriate more money (the case here), or simply severely cut back spending (which will be the method if the referendum fails). A cutback in spending will primarily affect the Academic Commission which received $24,000 last year and still overspent. There 
· have been statements that even if the referendum passes and the $12,000 is applied toward the debt, another $20,000 of the remaining $96,000 will also be earmarked for repayment. Whatever the case, the Academic Commission will be fortunate to receive half the funds it was allowed last fall. The probability is that the Social Commission will not be greatly cutback unless the referendum fails. 
Thus the situation is, if the referendum fails, all commissions and spending will be curtailed greatly, with the Academic Com­mission absorbing the brunt. If the refer­endum passes, spending will be cut in all areas also, but certainly not as much. 
If the referendum is approved, it will be under the assumption that some stricter controls are placed upon Student Govern-~ 
ment to prevent the huge amounts of waste, misspending and poor planning. 
The greatest losses are incurred by the Social Commission, and usually in great chunks, which points to a poor conception of what programs and events will go over with Notre Dame students. While in the past some decisions involving large expend­
itures were made by as few as two persons, 
Student Union director Dennis Clark has 
said that any spending involving sums of 
more than $500 will be subject to th~\. 
approval of the Union's executive bo,ard, 
which includes about ten people. 
During this past year, there were almost 
no financial controls over Student Union 
spending, and little contact between the 
Student Government treasurer and his 
Union counterparts. Now there are weekly 
meetings among the various business man­
agers and the treasurer. Also, a semi-annual 
budget will enable Student Government to 
cutback during the second semester if there 
is overspending during the first. 
Despite these reforms, there can be no assurance that another debt will not be incurred next year. A professional audit which will take place late in August should give some inkling of how misspending can be corrected. 
Rather than an actual fee increase, which is permanent, we would rather have seen a one year surtax, so that the fee will revert back to $16 the year after next. 
We urge that the students approve the fee increase, with the additional $12,000 going directly and solely to payment of the debt. In addition, and this is a requirement and a necessary supplement to approval of the increase, next fall's Student Senate should earmark another significant portion of the $96,000 for payment of the debt, so that the Student Government will be forced to eliminate waste or severely curtail its spending. 
Whatever happens, one thing is certain, the debt must be paid and Student Govern­ment must learn how to manage students' 
money. 
•

11 
Guy DeSafllo 
Change 

Universities are pretty exciting places-or at least they should be. 
There are always things going on, young people questioning values 
and institutions-searching to find new and better ways of doing 
things. The exciting thing is that the process never stops. There is 
something new all the time. Some new quest to replace any old 
problem that has been considered and is on its way to resolution. 
The University is no place for complacency-complacency leads to 
stagnation not only of the mind but of the spirit. And a country 
whose people lose their spirit of questioning, their excitement for 
change, is in a bad way. 

Change is never a bad thing-as long as it is progressive. Progressive 
change is never change for change's sake; but change that seeks to 
lift mankind to some higher plateau of life-to a new and better 
world in which the truly human values like understanding and 
honesty rule men's minds and their hearts. 
Progressive change seeks not to destroy what exists unless it is an 
institution that serves to make men less than what they should be. 
Progressive change creates-it develops-it takes those things that 
exist and attempts to find how they can be improved. 
It is that kind of spirit that should motivate young people today. 
So many times, students exposed to the inequities and ills .of the 
world tend to lose sight of those things which are good, wht~o:h are 
whole'some, and which have helped to bring man from that first dark 
day when he climbed out of a tree and started his journey to where 
he is today. 

Looking at the world and things like Vietnam it is often hard to 
believe that man has really come very far. But he has his incentive 
and his imagination, and a desire to improve-if nothing else. 
It is important not to let impatience for change destroy those 
three assets. Young people today can not let violence and despair 
take them further away from the goals that mankind really seeks. 
Violence is mankind's curse and is the surest deterrent to progress 
that anyone has ever come up with. 
But a call for rationality is no excuse for a lack of excitement 
about changing those things that need to be improved. Explicitly, 
there is a lot to be done at Notre Dame and next year is the time to 
get excited about doing it. 

There is the need to examine the University's efforts to help in 
alleviating the ecucational inequities which exist in the nation as a 
result of racial discrimination and just sub-opar schools in many 
American communities. Why can't the University open up and 
initiate a full scale set of new programs intended to give people the 
educational opportunities they hae been deprived of? 
And then there's the atmosphere here at Notre Dame itself. 
increased efforts must be made to hasten the day when there are 
enough women participating in every aspect of this place to make it 
a truly great campus. Reform of the academic structure must be 
speeded up and it must not end with a token change of the grading 
system or college requirements. Reform of academics should be a 
continuing process at any university and it is time that a permanent 
committee of students and faculty be set up to continually examine 
and revitalize the academic structure. 
At the same time the University has to begin to open up more. It 
must seek student opinion on what improvements need to be made 
here. It must accept students' willingness to channel their initiative 
and imagination into discovering ways of making Notre Dame better. 
And finally, as a University, Notre Dame should begin to demand 
more of its students in the field of academics. It has to ask students 
to begin to think more deeply about the broader problems that 
af~ect mankind in the hope of coming up with some answers that 
a University is all about. · 

PAGE 7

FRIDAY, MAY 16, 1969 
THE_ OBSERU£R. 
•



Soup-lines 1n the vineyard 
Notre Dame including ()r. Willis Nutting, Dr. William All were welcomed at the house, and there was no
by Pat Gaffney 
Storey, Fr. Leo Ward, professor emeritus of prerequisite to getting the benefits. You didn't have 
Suppose the phrase '\;atholic-workcr" slipped into an innocent conversation some sunny afternoon. The inq uisitivc listener would probably find the term remotely familiar, and chances arc he would deduce a meaning in one of two directions. first, if he decided to emphasize the adjective, the term would correspond to "social worker" or "factory worker", thereby denoting a person involved in ecclesiastical labor where specifically Catholic deeds were being worked at. llowcvcr, if he put the emphasis on the noun, the term would be akin to such expressions as "Catholic teacher" or "Catholic used-car-salesman" which <illude merely to the religious affiliation of the laboring person doing whatever he does. 
But, unfortunately, this interpretation, however shwred, is deceptive, for the phrase rarely falls with such a lit~.:ral and equivical reference. "Catholic Worker" is the name of a movement, and more popularly, the name of a monthly newspaper which is known for its stirring though prolix essays, and to this day sells for only one cent 

PETER MAURIN 
Both the movement and the newspaper sprouted in the early 30's mainly at the hands of Peter Maurin, an energetic 11nd unchainable French immigrant, and Dorothy Day, a communist journalist turned Catholic, who still edits the paper from her house of hospitality on New York's lower cast side. 
The movement pressed forth on several fronts. It encouraged a simple life and voluntary poverty, one wing advocated their "green revolution", i.e., a return to rural life, many sympathized and even supported pacificism, a good number moved into hospitality houses, following Christ's edict about the hungry and homeless, and underlying all, the movement always championed the cause of the working man, regardless of race or ideology. 
A good number of young Catholic idealists caught the spark of Maurin as he moved tirelessly back and forth across the country, never at a loss for a vacant soap-box. These young radicals went in many directions, some to organize unions, some to start farming communes, and some to founding houses of hospitality modeled on Dorothy Day's house with its soup-line in the Bowery. Two of the more illustrious workers were James O'Gara, now editor of Commonweal, and John Cogly, now a fellow at the Center for the Study of Democratic institutions; they started together at a friendship house in Chicago. 
This tradition made notable inroads in Catholic circles at Notre Dame. The names and the literature never became by-words among the students, but subtle influences worked steadily, so that now, it seems, the views expounded for years on the pages of the Catholic Worker are more widely felt than ever. 
!11 fact, the St. Francis House, recently set up in Clay Township, a few blocks north of the library was founded mainly on the initiative of Timothy McCarry, who took direct inspiration from Miss Day. McCarry has not only written for the Catholic Worker, but he spent a good deal of his last Christmas vacation at the Catholic Worker farm in Tivoli, New York, and he even applied to do a collegiate scholar project on Catholic radicalism in America the philosophy, Rev. Louis Putz, superior of Moreau Seminary, Eugene Ceissler, once with the English department, now an author and editor with the Ave Maria Press, Fr. John Kavanaugh, former President of the University, Fr. John Burke of the mathematics department, and the man who made, perhaps, the most colorful and concrete contribution, Dr. Julian Pleasants, a gentle, almost impish associate professor of microbiology at the Lobund Laboratory. 
CATHOLIC rtfb WORKER 
Dr. Pleasants' project was a friendship house which he and another student established in February, 1941. Dr. Pleasants was then working on a masters degree in theology, and his c,ompanion, Norbert Nerdt.inski, a Notre Dame undergraduate, was just one book report away from his B.A. Inspired by articles in the Worker, and concerned about South Bend's west side, they decided, without a shred of experience between them to found a house of hospitality. 
A woman from a House in Detroit came down to help them select a spot, and on her recommendation, they settled on a dclapidated dentist's office on Chapin Street. Twelve rooms, and the rent was $25.00 a morlth'. Other houses around the country offered encoura'geinent, but the initial resources came from their own pockets and their own conniving. Norbert and Julian pooled their supplies, brought in some cots an; tables, got some grub, and opened the door to the world. 
Men started coming slowly. Many were hobos, coming off the nearby railroad tracks, and as the word spread around town, the locals too came to know the "Peter and James House" as a place to get a free and a rack when it was lacking elsewhere. 
As the numbes swelled, the food problem began to look them squarely in the eye. But it was conviently solved, mainly due to the advocacy of fr. John 
Kavanaugh, then a vice-president. They arranged to get the extra food from the Notre Dame dining hall, just so long as they would pick it up. Julian and Norbert put out $15.00 for a crusty model-A, took out the rumble scat and replaced it with a wooden box for hauling cauldrons and I0-gallon milk cans. The car did have a cracked engine block, which meant filling it with hot water on winter mornings, but it made the trip faithfully twice each day. Now and then, Dr. Pleasants recalls, they would drop by St. 
Mary's for leftovers. On these occasions, the boarders, connoisseurs of ham, eggs and Mulligan stew never failed to remark on the unexpected delicacy of the house cuisine. 

Their plan in the beginning was to follow Peter Maurin's ideal and make the house multi-purpose; not simply a corporal works depot, but a center of discussion, agitation and counselling. But these two soon found all their energy absorbed in keeping the men fed and the building in one piece. At first, Pleasants and Nerdzinski had the house wide open. Later, after seeing the complications of overcrowding, they were persuaded by a visitor from a Toledo hospitality house to limit the number of boarders to the number of beds and cots they had available, which was 32. 
But even at this, there was always food for alL Since they could only accomodate 20 men at a setting, they would sometimes have five or six shifts before they got everyone fed. They picked up the food after the meals at N.D. This delay meant a lag of hours, and often a whole day before the food could be warmed over and served. Without refrigeration, there was always the threat of spoilage, but as Julian recalls, only he and Norbert ever got too sick. There were a few notable exceptions, like the time they got the fried oysters. They surmised from the extraordinary size of the load that the offering hadn't gone over too well with students, and later, after serving it, the whole house was struck by a plague of the green-apple-quick-step. They resorted to a kindly 
Polish druggist who ran a shop on the floor beneath them. lie supplied an assortment of bottled nostrums, to pray, you didn't have to hear a sermon, you didn't have to "spill your guts" or even testify. Understandably, the simplicity of the managers' motives was incredible to most of the men. Pleasants recalls that a number of the men who had had experience with the Salvation Army or other missions could perform excellent pietistic routines, and some were fond of wandering from room to room with rosary beads dripping through their fingers. They did have Mass from time to time, and quite an advanced liturgy for its time, but no one was ever coerced to attend. 
The city fathers weren't exactly enthusiastic about the venture, and a fair share of criticism arose in local Catholic circles as welL Then, one day, the late Bishop John Francis Knoll, hardly remembered for his chummy manner, dropped by the house for a visit. He got quite an existential tour, Julian Pleasants noted, for everywhere he went, he was obliged to step over sleeping bodies and push aside scattered furnishings just to make his way through the rooms. He didn't say much that afternoon, but word must have squeaked out that he approved, for critical forays from the local clergy dwindled almost immediately. 

Pleasants and Nerdzinski carried on the operations with no steady help from 1941 until the middle of 1942 when Nerdzinski went into the army, called by the selective service. While enlisted, he continued to send the bulk of his pay check back to the house. Pleasants too, had taken up a part-time job to keep the place going, a doing stock in.ventory at night for Bt!ndix. 
Times were changing quickly. War time economy had created an abundance of jobs and tht! hobo traffic had gone down to almost nothing by the middle of 1943. Then, in 1944, Dr. Pleasants' mother got sick, and Julian felt the call to go hom,e and help his family. A combination of factors merged to the closing of the house after three years of service. 
That all faded many years ago, and though faces have changed and the scene has shifted, the ideals still are shining. Younger blood has taken up the ideal in its primal form, and Dr. Pleasants now conducting research in germ free nutrition sees a sort of unity. "I'm still doing the same thing I was doing 25 years ago," he says, "just trying to feed people." 
!===============p,;;;;;;;=====o;=;;;=;=======lljl 
Tht! 1969 Dome, ont! of the most eagerly  
awaited University publications in rt!cent years,  
will be distributt!d Monday, May 19 at  
LaFortune Student Center. This year's edition  
is 336 pages, with 24 in full color. Highlights of  
the volumt! include sevt!ral in-dt!pth essays on  
publications, student life, sports, academics  
since John O'Hara C.S.C. was president of the  
University, and what may be a controvt!rsial  
review of the events of the year on campus.  
One striking aspect of tht! book is its technical  
pt!rfection. The color photographs--there art! 39  
of tht!m-have bet!n reproduced beautifully.  
And tht! black and white photographs are of a  
remarkable quality. As the only student  
publication dealing with color printing, the  
Dome has used its pott!ntial well. Photographs,  
many of tht!m full-pagt!, are dominant in the  
format of the book.  
One dt!parture that the Editor, Kt!vin Flynn,  
made in tht! format is in the introduction,  
wht!re the cinema technique of the "zoom" is  
ust!d in focusing in on a certain part of a color  
photograph rt!pt!ated over several pages.  
Another is a one page editorial that comments  
on the tumultuous t!Vt!nts of the early second  
st!mester and the presidt!nt of the University.  
There arc three major divisions of the book:  
Student Life, a look at tht! social, academic,  
and cultural life of the student body; The  
•···  Establishment, with essays on the major  ....  
:;:;  organizations of the University from the  ;:;:  !  
:=;..:~.=.::1...=:.:.:  ~~:~/c:is~:g~~~~a\~~~~~~~~e;:~~~~c~.g~::r~ aa~~also 60 pages of formal and candid photographs  ..=·::...=~...=;.~..:~.~  


FRIDAY, MAY 16, 1969
THE OBSERVER

PAGE 8 
Sociology survey shows student discontent 
By Dave Lammers Dame if they had the choice concerned with infusing them ment. "Even when they take a
administrators, and will recom­
over again. into contemporary issues and very negative approach, they put
A survey conducted by Pro­mend curriculum changes for the 
Much criticism was given to problems," Dr. Koval said. it in a positive context. They are
fessor John Koval of the Soc­fall of 1970. John Hickey, presi­
the required theology and phil­Mahy students expressed deep thinking positively. They don't
iology Department has revealed dent of the Academic Affairs 
osophy courses, the content of dissatisfaction with the social want to wash it all down the
that many Notre Dame students Commission for this year, is in 
the courses and the limitations atmosphere at Notre Dame, and tube," Koval said. One student 
are dissatisfied and disillusioned charge of evaluating the study 
of the subjects studies in the only 14% felt that the university said, "Notre Dame is a very good 
with their university. conducted by Professor Koval. 
courses. 57% of the Arts and had significantly addressed itself university-yet not a great uni­
In seven areas (social, intel­The survey was given to 546 
Letters students responded that to this problem. Koval said "the versity . . . It offers a fine
lectual, cultural, academic, upperclass students chosen ran­
they wanted all philosophy vast majority of the comments program of academic excellence, 
vocational, religious, and moral) domly from all four colleges in 
courses eliminated, -17% wanted were on the social level. And a rare mixture of varying charac­
the student responded that the university. 
the requirements reduced or the they didn't talk about just girls ter types . . . and a cultural
Notre Dame has not met their Only 22% of the students 
content changed. In theology, and sex, but the lack of a normal atmosphere of high quality. Yet, 
expectations. believe that Notre Dame has 
54% wanted the courses relationship, out of classroom on the other hand, you have the
The study was sponsored by significantly contributed to their 
eliminated and 14% wanted and on an informal basis." lingering remnants of clerical
the Academic Affairs Commis­moral and spiritual development, 
them reduced. authoritarianism ... and a truly
One respondant said that
sion of the student government, while 70% believe that it is 
45% of the-students believed "contacts with adults~such as unhealthy social atmosphere."
which is part of a total curric­important that the university aid 
the university "should expose professors outside of the class­When asked about the aca­
ulum evaluation program under them in the development of 
students to the teachings of reli­room is insufficient." Another demic effects of the survey,
way. The total evaluation pro­their values, moral standards 
gions other than their own," hut said, "It is entirely artificial soc­Father John Walsh, Vice­
gram is being conducted by a and commitments in life. ' 
only six percynt thought that ially here and a cultural and president for Academic Affairs,
committee of five faculty mem­28% of the subjects said that 
Notre Dame had lived up to this intellectual vacuum." said, "The university-wide Cur­
bers, five students, and ten they would not come to Notre 

Sunday, May 18 VILLAGE OF THE DAMNED CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON 
ROAD RUNNHR CARTOONS EVERY NIGHT 
Club members admitted to all films FREE life membership $2.00 $.75 per evening 
CA Students Screen Arts Class members & Current Club Members ONLY 
expectation. riculum Committee has and will
Few felt that South Bend continue to use the ;~formation
Much criticism was directed contributed to the social or cul­to the traditional method of tural life. "This is the middle of 
from the survey as part 01 the teaching Catholic theology. 'Nowhere, U.S.A.' " one com­total information gathering pro­"The students are putting less plained. cess on the basis of which the emphasis on religion and moral­Koval emphasized that Notre Curriculum Committee will ity as traditionally defined; Dame students are concerned make recommendations to the rather they are becoming more about improving their environ-Academic Council." 



Dowdall announces appts. 
Student Union Academic  Festival for next year. The  Saint Mary's is in.terested in  
Commissioner, Pat Dowdall,  festival will run a series of events  holding a conference on the  
announced several major  throughout the year, and havea  Role of Women in Society. We'd  
appointments to his staff for  major festival in the spring.  like to get someone from the  
next year. Dowdall has appointed  Emphasis will be on student involvement, with such things as  Women's LiberatiOn Committee and a leading female publi~  
Richard Hunter as SUAC's  "outdoor theaters, chalk ~ins,  figure, such as Margaret Chase  
executive co~ordinator.  outdoor concerts, and  Smith," Dow d a II said.  
Appointed as associate  paint ins."  I Concerning financing,  
commissiOners are; Pat Me  "There is an excellent  Dowdall commented saying,  
Don'lugh, Dick Roddwig, Jim  possibility," Dowdall remarked,  "We are going to work this  
Metzger, Gregg Muarry, Mike  "that next year there will be a  summer to get outside funds. I  
Kelly, Bill Knapp.  city wide Contemporary Arts  think we can get outside funds  
Dowdall also stated that  Festival. It would be sponsored  for the four conferences, and the  
Roddwig would be the chairman  by all the colleges in the area,  Contemporary Arts Festival."  
of the Contemporary Arts  and the South Bend Chamber of  
Commerce."  
Dowdall commented on possible intergration with SMC  Corieotion  
student services commission.  
"My feeling is that it can be  Breen-Philips senator Richard  
most effective and most  Hunter did not participate in  
advantageous to the student  Tuesday night's filibuster against  
body if we work together.  the non-academic credit for  
Negotiations are being held and  ROTC bill as was reported in the  
details are being worked out.  OBSHR VHR Thursday.  


The only book ofits kind! 
Practical. authoritative, up-to· do.1lc, this cnmprchcn... ivc hand­hook th!scrihc"' more than 500 !'>tudy program" availahlc to U.S. high 'chool and college student' and tcach~.·r!'l in Europe. Latin America. the Ncar and Far Ea't. Packed with sound advice, it cover...: 
• 
Both summer and full-year programs 

• 
Cost~. in,:luding tran~portation. tuition and lh·ing expenses. \\Uh a \\ealfh of information on financial aid and ~o:o,·ernment sponsorship 

• 
Admission and language 


requirements; arademic credits 
• Opportunities for teachers


by John A. Garraty, Walter Adams 
10 DAYS' FREE EXAMINATION

Illknow the way home 
and Cyril 1. H. Taylor 
HARPER & ROW 51 East 33d Street, New York, N.Y 10016 Gentlemen: Please send me copyfies)
"The authors of this guide offer 

of THE NEW GUIDE TO STUDY ABROAD by hnahmhle a.~sistan,:e ... The infor­Garraty, Adams and Taylor for 10 days' free e~amrnatron. Wrthrn that time 1 will erther
with mv eves closed: 
mation and 3(1\"ke are most wnrth­

remit the purchase price. plus mailing "hiiL·:·-~r~ATOR .1. v..·. I I I IIRICilll ctlarges. or return the book(sl without obliga. lion.· Price per copy:
Then you know the way too well. 
Cloth, $7.95 Paper. $3.95 

Because driving an old familiar route can make you •·Shoulcl he an in,·aluahle aid to drowsy, even when you're rested. 
~·oung Amt>rican.., who "ant to stud) Name and tra' el in other land....H
When that happens, pull over, take. a break Address 
-SLN.-\TOR l·.IJW:\KD \1, KE:'\:--.;FDY

and take two NoDoz® Action Aids.* They'll help you 
City.. 

drive home with your eyes open 
Zip Code __ _
At llll hrwh·ton·.'i. or

NoDoz Aclion Aids. No car should be without them. 
U.\'(' tfl£' C'OIIflOI/ tO Ottfl'f fJUW. SAVE! Enclose payment and publrsher pays marhng charges. Same return prrvrlege, of course. 4405 A
*T.M. ©1968 Bristol-Myers Co. 

FRIDAY, MAY 16, 1969 

-------_7HZ_OBSERfJER. 



Dowdall announces SUAC 
By Glen Corso 
Pat Dowdall, Student Union Academic Cmissioner, announ­ced a tentative list of events, which SUA(' hopes to hold next 
year. 
SUi\{' will continue its Distin­guished Lee! ure Series. It will be hroken down into three parts: puhlic figures, academic figures, and a Uniwrsit y Lecture Series. 
Invitations will, or have been sent out to the following people for tht• public figures part of Lect urc Series: Senator Barry (;otdwatcr ( R-i\riz.), William F. Buckley, Editor of the National Review, and noted Economist John Kenneth (;atbrailh. "We arc trying," Dowdall remarked, "to arrange a dehalt' bel ween Buckley and (;athraith." 
For acadrmic figures, Dowdall hopes to get: llans Morgenthau, noted. political theorist, Eric Fromm, author of the "Art of Loving," and sociologists l'aul (;oodman, David Riccman and Phillip Mosley. 
The third part, the University Lecture Series, will draw heavily from our own faculty. Dowdall said that he hopes to usc the faculty "a little more this year." He plans for symposlums, panel dikscussions, and debates. 
A second major part of SUAC's program will deal with two series of lectures on specific topics. One of those topics will be Urban Studies, and the other the Problems of Asia. 
"The reason we want to deal with these topics is we don't have an urban studies or Asian affairs program at Notre Dame", Dowdall said. "We hope to sup· plement the University in this." 
Dowdall said he would like to look at the urban problem from "several viewpoints". lie hopes to get Harvey Cox to look at the problem from the religious point of view. Dowdall plans to talk to Presidential assistant Daniel P. Monihayn, to try to have him speak on it, and be keynote speaker. 
Dowdall cited the reasons for Asian studies as being twofold. The first is political, because of China and Vietnam. The second is because many people arc be­coming "more and more inter­ested" in the cultural and reli-

SUMMA doing well 
The University's $52 million Summa development program has achieved 81 percent of its goal in 18 months, Dr. O.C. Carmichael, South Bend business excl'Utivc and national chairman of the program announced re­cently. 
Commitments totaling $42.2 million have het•n made since the camp;lign, known as "Summa," was launched in Ol'lober 1967 Carmichael reported. Ife said 22,779 gifts had been made to the University by trustees, factllty, alumni, parents, friends, corporations and foundations. 
The averate gift from alumni, Carmichael noted, is running at an unusually high $817. The "Summa" program encompasses 21 programs and projects grouped under faculty development, expansion of 
graduate  education,  special  
research  programs,  and  general  
university development.  

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::. 
Revlon invents the first Oil-Free Makeup! 
Here's the first makeup that can't ~~feed" 
more oil to oily skin, because there's no 
oil in it! That means it won't clog pores, 
never changes color. Holds back oily shine 
longer than any other makeup! Medicated 
~Flowing Lotion-Makeup~in 7 shades 
that smooth on like silk. Natural Wonder ~Flowing Lotion-Makeup' 
Available at: 
St. Mary's College Book Store 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
gious aspects of Asia. 
"We see we arc becoming more and more involved with asia, and we do not understand them", Dowdall stated, as the rationale for the series. 
Plans arc being made to invite John Fairbanks, noted U.S. his­torian on Vietnam. Dowdall also plans for a program on Indian Music, and hopefully, have a guru come to campus. 
There are five conferences planned for next year. They arc: Indian Affairs, News Media, Aca­demic Reform, Penal Institu­tions, and Radicalism. 
"I  feel  the  American  Indian  
has  been  neglected,"  Dowdall  
declared.  "We  would  like  to  



events 
campaign in California. 

Among the several questions 
to be discussed at the Academic 
Reform Conference are "What is 
a University," and "How does 
Notre Dame apply to this con­
cept?" The conference will con­
centrate on Notre Dame and 
offer both concrete and theoret­
ical proposals. 
Dowdall also feels that the issue of Penal Institutions is another area that has been neglected. He hopes to consider both Federal and local institu­tions. 
Concerning the radicalism conference, Dowdall was vague, and admitted that it has not really been planned yet. The 
build this into an important con­conference will be held late in ference." the academic year. 

George McGovern has been r---------------4 
approached, and has shown a willingness to speak at Notre Dame, for the Indian Affairs conference. lie will be the key­note speaker. Dowdall also advanced the possibility that Edward M. Kennedy would be persuaded to come and speak. 
The title of the News Media CQqference will be "Does the 

\N~~s Media create news?" Dowdall plans to invite several re prcsentatives from national TV, including David Brinkley, Chet Huntley, and Eric Sevaried. He would also like to invite John Siegenthaler, former editor of the "Nashville Tennessean." Siegenthaler was an assistant to Roher! Kennedy in the Justice Department, and ran Kennedy's 
Driving Range 
Par 3 GoJf Course Minjature Golf Course 
OPf.'N -DAY & NIGHT 
(weather permitting) 


PLAYLAND GOLF CENTER 
1715 Lincoln Way E::ast South Bend, Ind. Phone 288-0033 

PAGE 9 
We Call it t-t-Livability'' 
Our idea is to serve you with lunches and dinners you can live with day after day. Fine steaks properly broiled and at prices you can live with, too. And with pleasant surroundings, comfort­able booths and chairs, a little background music and a smile from the folks who serve you. And a choice of dinners to match 
your taste: 
I. Sirloin ..................$1.59 
2. Rib Eye ................  1.19  
3. Chopped Sirloin...  .99  
5. N.Y. Strip.............  1.89  
6. Ham Steak............  1.19  
8. Fish Fillet.............  .99  


STEAK HOUSE 
I5I6 N. Ironwood Just N. ofEdison 





SUMMER JOBS 
FOR STUDENTS 
Applications now being accepted for summer jobs with major corporation. Students 18 yrs. of age and over wanted to learn marketing, sales promotion, and brand identification techniques during summer period. High level executive management training courses given to qualified applicants. Salary $115 per wk. for f'rrst 3 wks. $145 per wk. pJus bonuses starting 4th week. 
SCHOLARSHIPS Win one of 15 $1,000 scholarships. 
TRAVEL 
Work anywhere in U.S. or in Canada. Qualified students may work over­seas. 


HIGH PAY 

Earn at least $1 ,500 for the summer student­make,$3,000 and more. 
SEE EUROPE Win all expense paid holi­day in London for an entire week. 
Best Positions Going Fast! Call Today For Appointment 
9:00 AM -1:00 PM 
GRAND RAPIDS, MICH. MUSKEGON, MICH .. LANSING, MICH. KALAMAZOO, MICH. SOUTH BEND, IND. 
Mr. Schmitt Mr. Ashley . Miss Olney . Mr. Magoon . 'Mr. Vermillion 
A.C. 616 459-6~33 A.C. 616 722-2454 A.C. 517 372-6313 A.C. 616 381-9780 A.C. 219 289-2429 

We have offices located in most cities however, please contact our district offices listed above for an appointment. ' 

THE OBSERVER. 

FRIDAY, MAY 16, 1969 PAGE 10 -------------·-----·· ----~----------------~~~~-~-------"-_c._~
---·----·· 

THE WORLD TODAY 
Minorities demand church lands 
SAN ANTONIO, Tex. (UPI) -Blacks and Mesican Americans joined yesterday as "brothers" in demanding hundreds of millions of dollars from Christian churches for proposals ranging from the establishment of a black university for dropouts to liquidation of· church lands. 
James Forman, head of the Black Economic Development Conference BEDC, and Eliezer Risco, editor of the newspaper La Raza in California, presented a united front to delegates of the 181 st assembly of the United Presbyterian Church of the U.S. 
Risco presented a seven point platform to the Presbyterians which included +250,000 to $500,000 as "seed money" to assist in building a new La Raza plant, plans for the church to liquidate their private holdings in Latin America and distribute the proceeds to the 
, poor, distribution of church owned land to low income families and enlisting the aid of other churches to support these demands, 

Demonstrators clash with pollee 
(UPI) Some 2,000 demonstrators and police clashed with rocks and tear gas yesterday in a wild melee which started when police cleared a "people's park" near the University of California campus. 
The violence erupted after Dan Seigel, student body president elect, told a Sproul Plaza rally at Berkeley, "let's go down and take over the park." 
At least 29 persons, including five policemen, were injured in the fracas. Early reports indicated some demonstrators were struck by shotgun pellets and a hospital reported seven persons were treated for apparent buckshot wounds. A policeman was reported stabbed 
. , and an unmarked police car was overturned. 

g -Apollo crew practke for mooft-shot 
;; CAPE KENNEDY (UPI) America's three Apollo 10 astronauts '" looped and rolled in supersonic jet planes high :tbove Florida ~ yesterday "to make sure we don't get airsick upstairs" when the "tl blast off toward the moon Sunday. : By flying roller coaster like paths, they created about 30 seconds 
tD of weightlessness at a time and felt the force of six times the normal ~ weight of gravity when they pulled out from dives. g Apollo I 0 is scheduled to drop into orbit around the moon May 
21 and circle it 32 times to perfect lunar navigation techniques and test landing procedures for the Apollo II landing mission. 

Sr. Bar changes hands Poher blasts French communications 
PARIS (UPI) -Acting President Alain Poher, the middle of the
Dave Witt, President of the pleted in the transference of the road candidate for president, touched off a new dispute with the
Class of '69, and Jack Crawford, Alumni Club from the present Gaullist caretaker cabinet yesterday by accusing the state run radio
President of the Class of '70, Senior Class to next year's Sen­and television network of biased political reporting. 
announced today that the final iors. 
SANDWICH 

DANCE, SAT., MAY 17 

SERVICE

THE EPERON 
ONROOFGARDENLOUNGE 
Available in every 

8 PM to 1 AM 
hall on campus

LEMONADE UMBRELLA CORP. 
Stewart Sandwich 

IN BALLROOM 
Service

7:45 to 11:45 925 Blaine
BOARDWALK SHOPS, RIDES 
232-2625

AMUSEMENTS OPEN SAT. & 

"Do your thing" immediate openings in young publishinr company for ad space salesmen & women. Work in your city or travel the USA. Salary, commission and car expenses. Call collect 
(312) 726-9326 or send resume to J and J Publications, Inc., 153 North Michigan Ave., Oticago, Illinois 60601. 





Smile, 
COIIllDg. 
The heartiest of the lights. 
BLATI BREWING COMPANY MILWAUKEE P£0RIA HEIGHTS LOS ANGELES 

In a communique from his Elysee palace office Thursday, Poher said that for several days the reporting of the net work had lost all A payment of $3200 was 
made by the Class of '69. This 
objectivity and impartiality.
price covered part of the legal expenses, carpentry work, 

Poher, 60, has been given the edge in public opinion polls over plumbing adjustments, and gen­
former Premier Georges Pompidou, the Gaullist candidate. eral improvements that were Poher, who became interim president after Gen. Charles de necessary to begin operations in Gaulle's resignation April 28, called on the National Control 
the Alumni Club this year. The 

Commission to insure fair treatment for all candidates when the Class of I970 is planning to 
presidential campaign opens today. devote another $2000 to $3000 into rennovation of the Club, Honduras students protest Rocltefelfer 
before opening next September. 

TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras (UPI) -Students protesting theWitt, the originator of the official visit of New York Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller tossed aplan for an on-campus bar to firebomb at newsmen yesterday and threw up flaming barricades at
serve seniors said, "I am very the university to prevent Rockefeller aides from entering. 
glad to see that the Class of '70 Other bands of students, some of them self described prowill be operating in the Almni Castroites followed the governor's entourage around the capital at aClub next year. TheClass of '69 safe distance behind police lines. But there was no repetition of thehas shown that an operation as violent student police clashes that Jed to the accidental death of onecomplex as the running of the student Wednesday.

Alumni Club can be handled by Rockefeller, head of a presidential mission that is reviewing Latinconscientous students., . .'' 

American relations, forwarded condolences and flowers to the funeral of the student, 22 year old Carlos Vcrgilio Zuniga. Police said he was accidentally killed when a policeman unintentionally discharged his revolver outside the presidential palace. 
Students at a university campus just outside Tegucigalpa tossed the Molotov cocktail under a landrover from which about ten newsmen were watching and filming them burning an American flag. 
STARTS TODAY 
Times: 6:15, 9:40 Sun. -Continuous from one 

AFROMFJLM •IA•nn< UV ULLMANN









JKAMME[ 
MAX VON SYDOW INGMAR GUNNAR BJORNSTRAND
BERGMAN 
Produoed by A.b. Svonok}"olmmduKn 

Dunnhuted b¥ ...~.... :· .{·~-~A:·:~ ..·.·.·=··..·: J.OPEH.T I'JertrREs t"OHPORATION 
l!j itt '' : ,) ' :.' 'PLUS CO-FEATURE 
INGMAR BERGMAN'S ftHOUR OF THE WOLF" 
Times: 7:45 



FRIDAY, MAY 16, 1969 
PAGE 11
_'!HE OBSERVER. 

1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
Letters to the ed~itor 
Charlatan ? 
Editor: 
It is completely tragic for the 33,000 more or less (what's a thousand or so'?) Americans kill­ed in the endless and Orwellian Vietnamese war that a proper and resonable reduction in the American population was not cffec.;ted about a year before the birth of Strange Robert Edsel McNamara. It is indicative of our times that this amoral, brash, omniscient charlatan continues to be afforded platforms at prestigious universities like Notre Dame; and that he con­tinues to enjoy life, altho utterly 
discredited (cf. Ad m. Sharpe in currend Readers' Digest), as president of the World-Bank at a tax-free $40,000 plus mainten­ance (we hope). Not too long ago, on our way to Chicago to sec one of our sons leave for Saigon, we spent a lovely summer day walking your magnificent campus, lunching in your cafeteria with the cathedral roof ... We left cnthraUed ­and proud of our Catholic heritage The McNamara presence has diminished your 
stature ... Bernard McCabe
I 
Milton, Mass. 
I 
Denounces 'detractors' t 
Editor: 
l, We doubt that this will ever appear in print as a "letter to the Editor." Nevertheless, with the recent ROTC controversy, we feel compelled to write to clarify 
many of the "detractor's" 
misinformed and/or misguided 
comments. 
The larger question of academic freedom must be asked. If this is to be a truly free academic community, the ROTC detachments have just as much right to be on campus as any other department. No one is forced to take ROTC, but students arc forced to take courses in other departments. In fact, ROTC courses arc open to all students; you need not be in ROTC to find the good "educative function" of military history, teaching methods, or personnel management. These courses do not teach "m iIi tarian ism, which kills people." Instead, the history, methods of instruction, and management courses provide a concentrated study which might be found in a drawn out fashion in the history, education, and management departments. In this sense, ROTC is no more "an 
apprenticeship, not an academic discipline" than these departments. 
Furthermore, the Observer-quoted Richard Bizot statement--"If it is indeed an academic discipline, why then arc no graduate schools in it, or for that matter, no undergraduate degrees'/::--is somewhat misinformed. Need I remind Mr. Bizot that there arc many military professional schools which award the equivalent of Master's degrees. Furthermore, there is the Command and (;eneral Staff School and the Army War College, which despite its name docs not teach "war." Also, the Army has its own advanced degree law school which is run in coordination with the University of Virginia. 
With regard to faculty status, 
as far as we know, there are only 
three full professors, one in each 
ROTC detachment. These men 
do have higher professional and 
academic degrees than simply 
B.A.'s. The other ROTC teachers 
are instructors with at least 
bachelor's degrees, but most of 
them are working for advanced 
degrees. Besides this, they are 
certainly competent in their 
teaching fields as witnessed by 
74WY,, of Army ROTC students 
saying the instructors knowledge 
of his material is "above aver­
age" and 25% saying "average." 
Finally, some critics say that 
ROTC is "jock." This is far from 
true. If the question of "gut" 
courses is raised, more stones 
could be cast at certain history, 
English, air condi tioing, theolo­
gy, philosophy, and cut-and­
paste communication courses. 
Those who feel ROTC is "jock" 
should visit a class. We feel 
certain that the ROTC detach­
ments would welcome both stu­
dent and teacher visitors, and 
such a visit would dispcll the 
misguided "gut" image. 
Thus, we hope that this letter 
has cleared up some misunder­
standing regarding campus 
ROTC. Many "detractors" have 
never been to an ROTC class and thus base their criticism on falla­cious second-hand knowledge. If these "detractors" are truly lib­eral and open, they would see ROTC first-hand, instead of lodging criticism at ROTC, pos­sibly, simply as a symbol for opposition to the VietNam war. 
John L Zippich II 
Kevin Donoghue 
freer Women 
Editor: 
We'd like to clarify certain misconceptions connoted in your May 7th article on the South Bend-Notre Dame Women's Liberation Front. 
The WLF is NOT a tea-party, nor is it a "movement"; it is a national front comprised of three main leftist political factions: (!) those who see t h cmsclves as an oppressed minority group and who s y methods of achieving group solidarity are similar to that of Black Nationalists, (2) those who see themselves as an oppressed minority group and who seek a solution to that oppression within S OS, (3) and those who again sec themselves as an oppressed minority group and who choose to "be a separate part of a revolutionary movement ... organized around its own consciousness and its own concerns." 
Your article covered the first hour of the meeting (it lasted three) and only its "consciousness raising" aspect, i.e., group discussion of the sources of and "rationale" behind discrimination and exploitation of women, both on a national and area leveL In the remaining time we considered the communication facilities open to us, the extent of outside Front support, and specific issues at Notre Dame, e.g., the token desegregation offered by Father Hcsburgh's "co-education" program, the unjust wages paid women workers at Notre Dame, and the lack of courses, either instil utional or in the Free University although requested, on the history, ideologies, and current function of women in what theoretically is a free society. 
Cae Ensworthy Charlotte Casey Marye Hacker South Bend-Notre Dame Women's Liberation Front 
"Lawlessness" 

Editor: 
dent Life Council Monday night that no subcommittee member assisted in the authorship of the story. No subcommittee testi­mony concerning events of the Pornography and Censorship Conference was directly used irf the story. The Scholastic article was based on interviews with two eyewitnesses to the invidcnt discussed. These individuals are former SUAC Commissioner John Mroz and Young Repub­licans' Chairman Mike Kelly. All events described were verified by both students. Article quotes came from the interviews, not the subcommittee testimony. It is unfortunate that some have tried to cloud the veracity of the Scholastic account by question­ing its sources. 
Joel Conndly 
216 Farley 
Senators on ROTC bill 
Editor: 
Wednesday night the Student Senate passed the Rooney-Janes ROTC bill by a vote of 29-5. We, the undersigned Senators, hereby make known a minority statement to be considered by the Academic Council in addi­tion to the Rooney-Jones bill. 

There is serious doubt in our minds as to whether the Rooney-Jones bill truly retlects the opinion of the Notre Dame Student Body. It was our hope that our filibuster of Tuesday night would awaken the students to this issue, and make them express their opinions to their Senators, so that they could vote in view of their constituents' opinions. Too often in the past year, the Senators have voted as individuals without regard to the opinions of the people that elected them. Their halls were not being represented. 
In view of this belief, we were extremely upset by the high­handed parliamentary manipula­tion of the last two nights, and especially by the chair's refusal to recognize our motion to in­clude the Rooney-Jones bill on the same student referendum as the $2 student government fee increase, and the football seating arrangements. 
In addition to the above, there is an obligation on the part of the Academic Council to re­view thoroughly with representa­tive members of this com­munity, the curriculum and goals of the credited courses in ROTC, and only then take action either for or against the proposal of the Faculty Senate. 
H. Patrick Weber Tom Scott Trasher Mike Mead 
Joe Furjanic Sam Rumore 
The Program for the Study and Practice of the Non­Violent Resolution ofHuman Conflict will offer two more sections of the seminar on non-violence next (all. 
How to get all the "Junk·: home'?? Use a "Dril'e-A way". No Cost 
for these new cars being shipped to most dtics: West, S. West, and East. Driver must be 21. Call 8362 or come to 141 Pangborn. 

,; ~~ IF YOU WOUlD 
A few words of clarification 

~ .'\ IT\ liK£ TO l£AD A 
arc in order concerning the story 
I ~ '<t)l

"Lawlessness" in last Friday's 
,,..,1,11 _____..FREE U. COURS£
Scholastic. Professor Massey was quite correct in telling the Stu­
,--. 
.I J. N£XT FAll S£ND


USED CARS 

Your Name, Next Year'~: Address and a See: 
Course Description to: Rick Libowitz Debby Chicos
Ed Moran (ND '69) 

or 
c/o Student Govt. Box 66 SMCat John's Auto Sales 
~-----------------------------------------~ 
702 Mishawaka 
Phone: 255-9342 
Rx for 
Corner of Cedar & 
Mishawaka Ave's. 


discontented youth''
V\.LSO: New Suzuki Bikes 
"Professor Joseph J. Schwab has written a tough minded, analytic, and prescriptive book that is
Ship Your Baggage By Air Freight 
more humane and more generous than an~ apologia of student protest not in print. There is not a

-It's Cheaper 
university president, or member of a board of trustees, or senior faculty member hiding behind his
Bring Your Baggage To Stepan Center -May 26 to June 3 ­diminishing grants, or junior faculty member fearing 
Empty Packing Cartons For Sale 
both freedom and liberation, who can afford not to read it and to study it. Perhaps, in place of a few of 
Hand Trucks For Muving Your Trunk 
the academic hegirasplanned for this coming summer, it might be more profitable, and far less costly, if a
See Your Room Flyers For Details 
few beleaguered (and some of the as yet untouche<!) institutions were to build student-faculty seminars around the text...Professor Schwab has produced the definitive handbook for creative acade~nic 
SerJ!ed By United North Central Alleghany Airline.\· 
revolution."

"SP£CIAl ON All HARDBOUND liBRARY £DITIONS 
FRANK G. JENNINGS, Saturday Review

STARTING MAY 12th" 
COLLEGE CURRICULUM & 
STUDENT PROTEST
A St>ecial Sale on Al/1/ardbound Lihrary 
Editions Will Start May 17th. 
Joseph J. Schwab 
At your college bookstore now $4. 95 Where: NL ...~.-.) JJookstore 
UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRESS. 
5750 Ellis Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60637 
<-------------------------------------------'l.----------------·----·--------' 
__.


--------------------------------------------~--.____________________________________________________ 

PAGE 12 ________ THE fJBSERIIDl.____________________F_R_ID_A_v_.M_A_Y_1_6_,1_9_6_9 
N D Grand Prix -tomorrow, I :30 

Scenes like these will be  Sports Car Club, finished as  way.  (Bottom  Right)  Rich  Meckel  and  
repeated  this  Saturday  as  it began (Top Right) in the  Alumni  Hall's  car  no.  7  have  the  pole  
Notre  Dame's  first  Grand  20-lap sprint race last Satur­ position.  (Bottom  Left)  Someone  who  
Prix  (go-kart  style)  gets  day. (Center) Miss Kay Bajo  wasn't around last week but will be tomor­ 
underway.  (Top  Left) Car  models  the  pace  car,  bor­ row  is Miss Katherine Virginia (Kit) Field,  
no.  44, representing  the  rowed from another speed- Miss Indiana.  


The race is scheduled to get underway at 

I :30 PM on the race course constructed in back of the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
At 8:30 PM Saturday night there will be a concert on St. Mary's lake by Holy Cross Hall. In case of rain, it will be moved to the Student Center. Admission is $.75 (singles), L $1.00 (couples). 
The Start 
Pos. Tirne(sec:) No. Org_ 

1  93.266  7  Alumni  
2  93.333  44 Spts. Car Clb_  
3  94.166  29 Walsh  
4  94.266  21 Dillon  
5  94.966  6 Stanford 2NS  
7  95.566  75 Cavanaugh  
8  95.766  11 Fisher  
9  97.466  70 Pangborn  
10 97.566  9  Sorin  
11 97_900  17 Lyons  
12 98_000  1  Fnley  
13 98.200  13 Morrissey  
14 98_600  2  Holy Cross  
15 98.833  76 Zahm  
16 99.400  66 Cavanaugh  
17 99.666  35 Keenan  
18 99_800  65 SLEd's  
19 100.30  14 Stanford  
20 102.06  33 Howard  






