
VOL. Ill, NO. 134 Serving the Notre Dame and Sa(nt Mary:~ College ('olllmtmi~1' TUESDAY, MAY 13, 196P 

SLC approves Junior cars and receives Porno Conf. Report 
By Dave Lammers next year. The number of organ­creased number of cars. While izational cars and hall cars would Riehle did not oppose the The Student Life Council met 
be rcduce.i from a total of about motion, he said !hill "many stu­last night and passed the motion 
80 to five. The fcc for possessing dents become selfish and individ­for 1unior cars for on campus 
an on campus car would be ualistic when they have cars." students. However, an amend­increased from the present ten He dtcd problems with students ment was attached which re­
dollars to twenty five in order to crashing the gate at "60 miles quired "a minimum amount of 


defray the cost of increased per hour," security officers be­
Prof. James Massey Rev. James Riehle, CSC
insurance for seniors, juniors and security and the paving of new ing insulted when students re­off-campus students," to be de­
parking lots. ceived parking tickets, and park­
termined before school ends this committee hearings. Massey dis­Father Burtchacll suggested that
Gallagher presented three ma­ing stickers being forged. year. claimed that the quotes in the
jor reasons for on campus cars. Father Burtchaell mentioned the fiscal year be ended on Concerning the recent Scholastic article were drawn
The increased of relations with that the social atmosphere March 31st instead of August
Scholastic article on "Lawless­
the South Bend community, the might, in fact, be depressed by from the investigating hearings. 31, so that "student government improvement of the social life, the increase in cars, in that officials can be held responsible
ness," Professor James Massey The SLC subcommittee's report, 
disdaimed that the quotations in and an increased ability to have "sleazing at the circle" might distributed at the meeting last for the money they hold in trust the article were obtained from night, says, "Lawless accused
privacy, were the arguments become less popular next year. for the students." Student gov­the SL(' investigating committee Mroz of deliberately planning to
Gallagher presented. Burtchaell also brought up the ernment Treasurer John Cough­hearings on the Pornography The major of show the films and of attempt­lin argued that since
issue debate problem of scholarship students many bills Conference. ing to sabotage the Law School
concerning Junior cars was the possessing cars. were outstanding till the end of Father James Burtchaell ad­Centennial and stated that he
necessity of establishing insur­The motion passed by a vote the year, a reliable account 
dressed himself to the problem would have Mroz thrown out of
ance regulations for all under­of eighteen in favor, one op­could not be given on March 31. of the Student Government de­school." Massey stated .that
graduate cars. Father James posed, and one abstention. Coughlin estimated the cash ficit this year, which Student Shilts pointed out that the re­"there was another side of the flow of the student government
Porno report
(;overnmcnt Treasurer John story that wasn't included in the
cent accident involved an un­and the Student Union to
At the beginning of the meet­
Coughlin estimated will be five insured off campus car. Since Scholastic article." "about $600,000" for this year.
ing, Professor James Massey,
to len thousand dollars. states differ in their minimum Criminal incompetence lie estimated the debt for this
head of the SLC investigating
insurance rcquiremcn ts, Father year to run bet ween five and ten
Junior cars committee of the Pornography Father Burtchaell, Father
Riehle and student government thousand dollars. 
Conference, emphasized that the McCarragher, and Student
The motion for cars on camp­officials plan to meet bctorc the The problem of "criminal in­
author of the "Lawlessness" ar­Government officials discussed
us Juniors was presented by competence" in student govern­
end of the school year so that ticle in the May 9th Scholastic the necessity of an audit of

Sophomore Barney (;allaghcr. minimum ment was by
the requirements can officials raised 
did not have access to the sub-student government accounts.
The surveys conduded among be determined. 
Burtchaell, who suggested that the present sophomores indi­Father Riehle spoke about the 
some student officials be legally cated that about 300 on campus major security problems that bonded, to protect against in­Juniors would bring cars back competence or embezzlement.
will be accentuated by the in-Burtchaell argued that "unac­countable money is the central
Students circulate 
problem" and said that the "be­lievability of an annual account depends on an auilit. The stu­
SUSC concert petition _,.. 
dent government officials could be made responsible by a bond­Three Notre Dame students; 
-ing procedure. The public rela­
There will be stacks of ques­Brett Huston, (;reg Brown, and tionnaires available in the dining tions effect of bonding is also Terry Mt:<'ahc, arc planning to halls, at the evening meal both important. conduct a petition drive in order Wednesday and Thursday night. 
The next meeting of the SLC 
to show dissatisfaction with the On the questionnaire will be _ ~ Gallagher Rev. J Burtchaell, CSC will be at 4:00 next Monday.
Student Union Social Commis­listed ten groups, including; 
sion's planned concert program. Blood Sweat and Tears, Canned Brett lfuston said that "the Ileal, and the Association. There whole idea was to suggest that will also be room for a student 
Haiito head Soph. Lit. Festival 
there is still time to change the to list any group that he feels planned concerts." II uston feels strongly about one way or the staff it."
Conference, the Black Power 
that hard rock "would have a other. You can indicate a prefer­By Glen Corso Forum, editor of the Due to the financial situation
and was 

wider range of appeal to a larger ence ranging from "definitely of the student government, the
newslct ter. 
segment of the student body." Robert Hall was appointed question of a cut in the $5.000
would attend," to "definitely When asked about the 
"What we want to .~how," to run the festival is a
would not attend." Chairman of the Sophomore concept of the Literary Festival, 
Huston declared, "is that the possibility. Both Connell and
Literary Festival yesterday. Rich Fitzgerald replied, "The students arc dissatisfied with the flail commented.
"We haven't listed certain Fitzgerald was appointed along Sophomore Literary Festival is a concerts." groups on the questionnaire, with Hall, as associak chairman. way by which we can get across "The money situation is up in the air right now, because of the
Dave Veechi, Student Union because they arc out of our price Ray Connell, president of the to the students something other 
student government," ConnellSocial Commissioner, found range. Examples would be the class of '72 made the than what they get in class. We said. "If the increase in thefault with several statements Beatlcs, or Simon and Gar­announcements, and commented also try to contribute something 
on them saying, "We had to the author." activity goes through, we hopemade in the circular which was funkcl," Vecchi staled. 
to get the $5,000 or more."
passed out. Vcechi said that "the results fourteen people apply. and they "We hope that a writer 
The first point is with the may help to decide some con­were all good. We picked Bob coming here would derive more ''If we don't get l he money, we'll have to work a little harder
number of concerts scheduled. certs. It will help more to deter­because of his experience, and than just money or publicity, 
and get it somewhere else" llallVeechi stated that there arc mine the spring concerts, rather his leadership ability, and Hall declared. "We want to give declared.
"four concerts schell uled, but than those in the fall." because we felt that he could him something of Notre Dame." only two definite." lie also cited "Hopefully though," Vecchi communicate with the various Commenting further Hall said, 
lie mentioned various sources that his commission was going to said, "the fall concerts will be authors and alumni groups." "'It will also be an opportunity such as Alumni groups, and co-sponsor four of five concerts fairly representative." Hall's appintment was voted for people at Saint Mary's and other groups with money to with the manager of the Athletic Vcechi remarked that the upon by the four class officers, South Bend to derive something contribute. 
Fitzgerald praised this year's
and Convocation Cen tcr. number of spring concerts would after two interviews. Acting as from the university." 
literary festival. lie said that the When asked if there would be depend on the survey, and the ad visors to the class officers "I was impressed with the en­"men chosen were fantastic. 
a variety of music presented in success of the fall concerts. lie were John Mroz, and Jim thusiasm and the ability of the 
They were competent in their 
the other concerts, Vcechi re­plans though to have a concert Metzger. people involved," Hall slated. 
field." lie cited both Barth, and plied "There most definitely will for both "Mardi Gras, and Grand There will be three "Ray Connell's choice was by no DeVries as "exceptional men." 
be." Prix." committees set up to adnunister means an easy one. It's Fitzgerald said that he wouldYl·cchi outlined the procedure "I wish to thank Brett the festival. They include a important that these people arc like the authors, "if possible to
for the survey which the social Huston, Greg Brown, and Terry finance committee, a publicity going to stay on and work for have more with
contact thecommission plans to conduct in McCabe for expressing their dis­committee. and a social the betterment of the class." 
student body."
order to arrange their concerts satisfaction in a rational way. I committee. The festival will be When asked about SMC "I'd like to have informal 
according to the dominant stu­hope other students will follow financed by a $5,000 grant from involvement with the festival, discussion of some topic with a dent taste. suit," Vcechi commented. student government. Hall said, "We would like some group of interested people
Vcechi also said that neither Vcechi did admit that the Hall has been active in SUAC girls from St. to join in.
Mary's planned for the various authors. the llenry Mancini concert, or survey had been planned for activities for the past year. He We plan to have a committee We want to have some more give
the Sergio Mendes Concert lost exam week, but had been moved part ici pa ted in I he Mock made up of St. Mary's girls, and and take bet ween the authors money, as stated in the circular. up "because of this petition." Election, the Pornography we arc now looking for girls to and students," he said. 


THE OBSERJJ£R. 
TUESDAY, MAY 13, 1969
PAGE 2 
D'Aurora to run Parents Wknd 
THE WORLD TODAY
light of recommendation by Jay 

one of routine." 
Fitzsimmons, this year's

Last night Junior Class D'Aurora said they hope for a 
chairman of the Junior Parents

President Barry Doyle named variety of on-campus activities 
Weekend.

JimD'Aurora as the General such as the Bengal Bouts, but Chairman for next year's Junior that they would "like the
Concerni.ng the Parents 

Seminarians join 'takeover' epidemic 
Parents Weekend. D'Aurora will Weekend, D'Aurora commented, parents to meet Notre Dame also serve next year as Executive "We'd like to restructure the without the excitement of a by United Press Internationalweekend so that it is not a
Secretary of the Student Union. football Saturday and formal Seminarians staged takeovers of buildings on campuses of two 
The appointment was made in glorified weekend, but rather 
dances."· eastern theological schools yesterday. 
A major problem confronting the Parents Weekend, D'Aurora NOW IN said, is the lack of participation PAPERBACK by the faculty in the four college receptions. In light of this problem, D'Aurora hopes that the college receptions can be narrowed to a department level reception "whereby our parents will meet our advisers and immediate faculty members assisting in our education," or broadened with the idea of a "faculty panel discussion from
tHE 
each college, concerning current 
events, problems in education, or campus problems." 
tEACHINGS 
OF 
D'Aurora stressed the fact

DON JUAN 
that many students will be 
A Yaqui Way 
needed to investigate possible plans for next year's Junior Parents weekend. Carl Rak has 
of Knowledge 
By CARLOS 
been appointed executive 

CASTANEDA 
coordinator of the weekend, and Brian Zevnik, who will serve as 
"An extraordinary spiritual and psychological document ... destined for fame."-New York Times 
"A young man's remarkable account of h'1s experiences with hallucinatory drugs of the Southwest, under the guidance of a Yaqui Indian ... utterly absorbing ..• quite likely it will become a classic." 
-Publishers' Weekly 

r.r.\ 95¢ wherever 
W:J BALLANTINE BOOKS are sold 







SUMMER JOBS 
FOR STUDENTS 
Applications now being accepted for summer jobs with major corporation. Students 18 yrs. of age and over wanted to learn marketing, sales promotion, and brand identification techniques during summer period. High level executive management training courses given to qualified applicants. Salary $1 I 5 per wk. for first 3 wks. $145 per wk. ph1s bonuses starting 4th week. 
SCHOLARSHIPS Win one of 15 $1,000 scholarships. 
TRAVEL Work anywhere in U.S. or in Canada. Qualified students may work over­
seas. 

HIGH PAY 
Earn at least $1 ,500 for the summer student make $3,000 and more. 
SEE EUROPE Win all expense paid holi­day in London for an entire week. 
secretary of the Class of '71, 
has been named executive 
secretary for the weekend. 
Applications are now being accepted for many other positions. A chairman is needed for the main dinner, which D'Aurora emphasized as one of the most important events and therefore requiring a responsible and dedicated chairman. 
On other campuses, Missouri Gov. Warren E. Hearnes sought court action to oust demonstrators from the student union building at Lincoln University in Jefferson City. State police patroled fringes of the Southern University campus in Baton Rouge, La. Classes resumed at violence racked City College of New York and Howard University in Washington D.C. 
About 50 seminarians took over the administration building of Union Theological Seminary in New York City in support of the demands of black militant James Forman for "reparations" to American Negroes. 
At Andover Newton Theological Seminary in Newton, Mass., 
about 50 students seized the administration building when the all 
white board of trustees failed to meet and consider demands for 
blacks on the board. They disrupted operations in the building. The 
administrative staff left. A spokesman for the rebels said they had 
not decided how long they would hold the building. Only five of the 
seminary's 600 students are black. 
Nixon to give Vietnam progress report 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -President Nixon conferred for the first 
time yesterday with his military chief in Vietnam and announced he 
would report to the nation on Wednesday on prospects of ending the 
war. 
White House officials said the President would not usc the speech 
to announce a limited withdrawal of U.S. troops from Vietnam. 
Gen. Creighton W. Abrams flew into Washington unannounced 
Sunday afternoon for the White House conference, described as a 
general review of the military situation. The new, intensive wave of 
Viet Cong mortar attacks and whether they constitute a significant 
new offensive were dist:ussed, White House spokesman Ronald 
Ziegler said. 
Fortas to resign rumor: 'very reliable' 
WASHINGTON (UPI) Sen. Paul J. Fannin, (R., Ariz.) said he 
has "very reliable" information that Abe Fortas will resign this week 
from the Supreme Court. Fannin said the information came to him 
from a Washington attorney in a position to know. He would not 
name him. 
At the same time, Atty. Gen. John N. Mitchell confirmed that he 
met secretly with Chief Justice Earl Warren to give him "certain 
information known by me which might be of aid to him." 
Mitchell's terse announcement confirmed Newsweek magazine's 
report of a Mitchell-Warren meeting. Newsweek said the attorney 
general called on Warren at the request of President Nixon and to 
tell the chief justice of "far more serious" evidence against Fortas' 
off the bench activities than those made public so far. 

Astronauts prepare for moon shot 
CAPE KENNEDY (UP!) Three astronauts practiced space flying 
on the ground yesterday in the final major rehearsal for the Apollo 
I 0 moon orbiting adventure that begins Sunday. 
Their launch crews, meanwhile, prepared the towering Apollo I 0 
space machine for the start of the 5Y2 day countdown at midnight. 
Thomas P. Stafford, John W. Young and Eugene A. Cernan 
undergo their last head to toe medica 1 checkup today and then 
hope to slow down the pace of training for the riskiest spaceflight 
yet undertaken in the moon program. 
The space agency said the session w as the last big simulation 
planned for the Apollo I 0 crew in the int ricate, computer 
controlled containers which the pilots have relied on for months to 
get ready for flight. The goal of the flight of Apollo 10 is to pave the 
way for a moon landing by two of the three Apollo ll astronauts in 
July. 
Apollo I 0 is scheduled to set out for the moon at 12:49 p.m. 
EDT Sunday and swing into lunar orbit 76 h ours later. The 
astronauts will circle the moon for ZY2 days to check out lunar 
landing machinery, to improve moon anvigation techniques and to 
Best Positions Going Fast! Call Today For Appointment 9:00 AM -1:00 PM 
GRAND RAPIDS, MICH.  Mr. Schmitt  A.C. 616 459-6533  
MUSKEGON, MICH ..  Mr. Ashley  .  A.C. 61 6 722-2454  
LANSING, MICH.  Miss Olney  .  A.C. 517 372-6313  
KALAMAZOO, MICH.  Mr. Magoon  A.C. 616 381-9780  
SOUTH BEND, IND.  .  . 'Mr. Vermillion  A.C. 219 289-2429  

We have offices located in most cities, however, please contact our district offices listed above for an appointment. 
inspect the Apollo II landing site on the Sea of Tranquility. 
"Do your thing"-immediate openings in young publish company for ad space salesmen & women. Work in your city travel the USA. Salary, commission and car expenses. Call collect 
(312) 726-9326 or send resume to J and J Publications, Inc., 153 North Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois 60601. 



"ERY IMPORTANT MEETING 
for everyone working on 
Freshman orientation 
Weds. 6:30 
Student Center Amphitheater (lC) 
-

r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
··~ 



THE OBSERVER
TUESDAY, MAY 13, 1969 


Hesburgh featured 1n• NY Times Magazine 
the Presidency in 1952, he witness the abolishment of the Pornographic Confercnce--"If scenario." With the sudden
By Bruce Bowles 
became well known for his Patriot of the Year Award and someone had plotted to appearance of the letter, "they
Notre Dame and Father activities on the Ford read about the Dow and CIA embarrass the Hesburgh (some student leaders) felt it was
llesburgh were the subjeds of a Foundation and received demonstrations. administration, they could not a desperate effort by llcsburgh
feature article in Sunday's (May invitations to sit in high Then Fleming cites the have devised a more diabolic to regain his crumbling image."
I I article in Sunday's (May II) New York Times Magazine. 
positions on government and r----::::::::-------~,.,~===================--=:::::::::::-----. 
Allegheny Airlines helps you beat the waiting game... 
Thomas Fleming, a freelance writer for the Times, gathered the material for his article from a recent visit to the campus and his interviews with Father llcsburgl, and some students. 
In his examination of Notre Dame life and Father llcsburgh's relation with it. Fleming stressed Father llcshurgh's role as an administrator "walking on a private instil utions. lie is now a member of more than thirty boards and commissions and devotes "about I00 days a year to government and/or foundation service." 
Ilow docs he keep up with his job as an administrator Fourteen-hour work days is Fleming's response. Doctors at the Mayo Clinic, however, have warned him that continuing his
tightrope of his own creation." On one side, the students; on the other, the alumni. 
lie dealt with Father lleshurgh's letter of February 17 extensively. Remarks of condemnation or commendation arc cited from a wide variety of sources: from the President of the United States to a "junior who is prominent in (Notre Dame) student politics. 
Fleming sums up Father llcsburgh's stance: he is a "priest and university president, Catholic and American." llcsburgh 's Irish and Cerman ancestry arc mentioned as reasons fur his "tough response" and also for his "willingness to be loved." 
The article continued with an account of llesbu rgh's rise to prominence. After ascending to 
Married N D student needs house by June 30. 
Lease or Ofllion to huy 
255-9256 




OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS APARTMENTS 
r c. ......­
~~~ 
. 

I ·~ . , 
present ways will shorten his life by as much as ten years. 
The stress is becoming even more severe. The alumni remember the "(;ood 01' Notre Dame" that they attended, and even the 5,000-name petition in support of the Viet Nam war three years ago. No ·v they 
Driving Range 
Par 3 Golf Course 

Miniature Golf Course 
OPFN -DAY & NIGHT (weather permitting) 
PLAYLAND 

GOLF CENTER 
1715 Lincoln Way East South Bend, Ind. Phone 288 0033 
And saves you up to 33113%. 
Allegheny's Young Adult Card lets you fly whenever you want to (even holidays) and still get advance reservations. 
If you're between 12 and 22, ,. what are you waiting for? Stop by any Allegheny ticket counter and purchase your Young Adult Card. Only $10 for all of 1969. 


Allegheny Air System 
We have a lot more going for you 


-TOTAL ELECTRIC LIVING-A new concept in student living 
THESE APARTMENT BUILDINGS ARE LOCATED JUST SOUTH OF THE CAMPUS ON NOTRE DAME AVENUE. EACH APARTMENT IS DESIGNED FOR FOUR STUDENTS AND IS COMPLETELY MODERN IN EVERY DE­TAIL 
SOME OUTSTANDING Ft'ATURE'S: -Private Patios and Balconies -Air Conditioning -Kitchen with Range, Refrigerator and Garbage Disposals. -Cooking Utensils, Dishes, Silverware, etc. -Wall to Wall Carpeting -Party Bar 
Soundproof Constnu:tion -Prewired for T. V., Phone -Lighted/PaPed Parking Area -Complete(v Furnished 
SUMMER APARTMENTS AVAILABLE NOW 
NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS
APARTMENT LAYOlJT 


-For Rental Information-Call -272-5525 
~PA~G~E~4--------------------------------~Z~~=~~0~--TUESDAY, MAY 13, 1969 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••r• 




N D booters tie 
The Notre Dame Soccer Club walked off the field Friday afternoon with a 1-I tie with Goshen College. It was a hard fought contest from the start. Goshen came from the opening kick-off and scored within the first three minutes of play. They scored on a left-footed shot from the outside. It was a tough goal, on the first penetration of the game and one of the few the Irish defense was to allow all day. The defense, led by Captain Greg Abrams, Rick Coleman and Ken Foley constantly thwarted Goshen offensives the entire afternoon. It was Foley especially who was effecitve at his left-fullback position, working with Abrams to start Irish fast-breaks. 
The first half ended with the 

visitors leading l-0, but the Irish front line soon permeated the Goshen defense to score with 15 minutes remaining in the third period. Fred Rohol scored from in close with the assist coming from John Amato. The Irish fought through the Goshen line many times in the second half and completely controlled play. It was only the eratic shots of the line that kept the score from being greater. Bob McAleer, the Irish goalie, played a fantastic game saving several shots that were certain scores. This game ends the Irish' undefeated spring soccer season, with a record of 2-0-1. 
Golf 

Bob Battaglio improved tremendously from last 
weekend, shooting a 70 to lead Rev. Clarence Durbin's golfers ro a fourth-place tic in the Michigan State Invitational on Saturday. The medalist honor went to Michigan's Rod Sumpter, who had a 69. 
Indiana pulled off a mild upset in the team competition, winning over Purdue and Ohio State. The Hoosiers had 362 strokes, three better than the Boilermakers. Michigan, ND, and OhioState came in at 371. There were 25 schools in the meet. 
Bob Wison, who played so well last week at Columbus, had a 75 for the Irish. Jim Dunn (73), Mike Sprinker (76), Bill Cvengros (77), and Charley Musick (80) rounded out the ND total. 

Grand Prix set for finals 
The results of the time trials and sprint race held May 11 for Notre Dame's upcoming Grand Prix Go-Kart Race have been 
1965 Honda 

300 dream 

For a paltry $300 and no sales tax. Good (in fact great) shape. 
Call; Pat Pattison 259-4282 or 288-9240 



ARE YOU 

officially announced. 
The winner of the 20-lap sprint race was No. 44, the Sports Car Club with a time of 
15:40.8. Second place went to lucky No. 7 of Alumni Hall with a time of 15:57.8. 
The official line-ups for the race were determined by the time trials, the results of which were a reversal of the sprint race. Alumni had the best 2-lap time. 
Free between 4-6 next fall 
In need of extra spending money 
Reliable 
Then Contact 
Robert Ohlemiller Jr. 362 Morrissey 
3634 
.----­


: 
I 


of  I :33.266.  The  Sports  Car  
Club  will  be  in  the  No.  2  
position  when  the  Grand  Prix  

Race gets underway next Saturday. Their time was 
I :33.333 for 2 laps. Walsh Hall with No. 29 came in 3rd with a time of I :34.66. 
The results of the time trials and sprint race will be put to the final test at I:30, May 17th, Grand Prix Race Day. 

Standings 
National· East Won Lost 
CHI. 21 xPITT. 16 N.Y. 14 PHIL. 12 xST.L. 12 MONT. 11 
West ATL. 20 xl.A. 18 xS.F. 17 CINN. 13 S.D. 15 HOUS. 11 12 13 16 15 18 17 
9 11 12 16 19 23 Pet. GB .636 .552 3 .467 5Y:. .444 6 .400 7Y:. .393 7Y, 
.690 .621 2 .586 "3 .448 7 .441 7Y:. .323 11 Y:. 
x-late game not included Chicago 2, San Diego 0 7th inning: S.F. 3, Pitt. 1 7th inning: St.L. 4, L.A. 1 ONLY GAMES SCHEDULED 
American-East 
Won  Lost  
BALT.  22  11  
BOST.  19  10  
xWASH.  16  16  
DET.  13  15  
xN.Y.  12  19  
CLEV.  4  21  
West  
MINN.  18  9  
OAK.  19  10  
CHI.  12  11  
K.C.  15  14  
xSEA.  11  17  
xCAL.  9  17  

Pet. GB .667 .655 .500 5Y:. .464 6Y:. .387 9 .160 14 
. 667 .655 ­.522 4 .517 4 .393 7Y:. .346 BY:. 
x-late game not included New York at Seattle Washingtonat California ONLY GAMES SCHEDULED 





sport~ parade 
By Milt Richman, UPI sports columnist 
The man behind the merger 
NEW YORK (UPI) -Somebody had to make the move and in the end it turned out to be the one man nobody ever expected to-Art Modell, the National Football League president and owner of the Cleveland Browns. 
He didn't to it because he's a martyr, nor did he do it for the money as some already erroneously believe. 
He did it for the corniest reason in the world-"for the good of all"-and if there are those who take that to mean for his own good as well, Art Modell isn't going to bother arguing the point. 
As happens whenever 25 millionaires get together in the same room Modell, the 26th, was in Doctors Hospital with bleeding ulcer, there was considerable difference of opinion over which NFL clubs should move into the much younger, less established American Football League. 
The prevailing sentiment was "let George do it" and for awhile NFL officials were looking exactly as foolish as the major teague baseball owners did when they were going around in the same unbroken circles trying to find themselves a suitable commissioner. 
But there are some good thinking men in football also, men who 
will put the game ahead of their own selfish interests, and did this 
past weekend. 
Pete Rozelle, the football commissioner, is one of those who 
worked hardest. When the 25 millionaires in his Park Avenue office, 
who sat there 35 hours and 45 minutes all told, protested they were 
"too tired" from time to time, Rozelle insisted they stay until they 
could hammer out an agreement. 
So Rozelle deserves any extra fanfare he gets. So does Carroll 
Rosenbloom of the Baltimore Colts and Dan Rooney of the 
Pittsburgh Steelers, who agreed to go into the AFL along with the 
Browns. 
But one man possibly deserves more credit than all the rest and Paul Brown picked him out. Brown's choice was Art Modell, who originally objected to moving his ball club to the AFL. 
"I just feel that's all to his credit," Brown said of Modell when 
asked how he felt about the NFL president and Cleveland owner 
changing his mind. 
"It was his decision that what is best for pro football is best for everyone." 
Those who are now saying Modell, Rosenbloom and Rooney "sold out" for the money, an estimated $1 million apiece couldn't be more wrong. 
None of the three asked for any money. The idea to give them. some came from the 13 other NFL owners who felt the three new representatives in the American conference should be compensated for the natural loss in receipts they are bound to uncur because the new ballparks in Cincinnati and Kansas City won't be ready for at least another year. 
Besides, none of the three arc hurting that much for money that they'd bolt the NFL for that reason alone. All three are well fixed. 
The next logical question then is why would such a hide bound NFL man like Modell consent to over to the rival circuit, and from his room at Doctors Hospital where he's still on a bland diet, he undertook to furnish the answer. 
"A week ago this past Friday night May 2 I had dinner with Pete Rozelle," Modell said. "I told him 'I have a surprise for you. If certain conditions are met, Cleveland is a possibility."' 
That was the first time Rozelle had any inkling Modell would even consider moving his club to the other league, but Modell had a surprise in store for himself, or rather a shock, when he returned to his hotel room here for the alignment meetings. 
He fell unconscious that night and was taken to the hospital where he has been since. But he has kept in touch by telephone . "I made my decision this past Friday," he says, "but before I did 
spoke with Wellington Mara of the New York Giants and Dan Rooney. l wanted to make sure the Rooneys knew my position and that the Giants wouldn't suffer." 
"Originally, I was dedicated to a 16 I 0 status quo," says Modell about the alignment. "I wanted 16--10 for two years. The next best thing, l felt, was to deliver three teams now so as to preserve the rivalries and maintain competition. Now that it has been done, I feel happy. It's been rough. I haven't had a smoke in nine days." 
IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO LEAD A FREE U. COURSE NEXT FALL, SEND Your Name, Next Year'r: Address and a Course Description to: RICK LIBOWITZ, c/o STUDENT GOVT The Observer is published daily  Applications are now being accepted for NSA delegates Send to Box 522 By 6:00P.M. Tuesday, May 13  
during the college semester except  
vacations by the students of the  
University of Notre Dame and St.  
Mary's College. Subscriptions may  
be purchased for $10 from The  
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame  
Ind., 46556. Second class postage  
paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556.  




