
Hesburgh expresses approval of Moratorium; Student views run from far left to far right 
The President 

By John Dicola and Tim Treanor I'm inclined to go along with something the people believe 
in." 

University !'resident Father Asked for his opinion of the Theodore llesburgh, C.S.C., yes­possible effect of the Morator­terday expressed approval of.Oc­ium on President Nixon, Hes­tober fifteenth's moratorium; burgh stated "I don't see how both as it was conducted at the president could possibly ig­Notre Dame and as it was ~.:on­nore such a demonstration for du~.:ted a~.:ross the nation. peace made by so many people." 
Father Hesburgh, who never­The president had previously theless characterized the peace said that he would be "un­efforts of President Nixon "sin­moved" by demonstrations on ~.:ere," called the moratorium October fifteenth. "an honest discourse by rational Speaking on his own feelings men. It's always good," he add­concerning the war, Father l-Ies­ed, "to have serious dis~.:ussion burgh outlined a two -point of the really great issues." program he suggested the United 
He pointed with pride to what States offer in Paris. He called he ~.:ailed the "religious charac­for a stand -still cease fire and ter" of the Notre Dame mora­agreement to free elections torium, which he said, "might supervised by a mutually accept­have been difficult to find on able international body. If the other campuses." He was es­government of South Viet Nam pecially pleased with the Memor­refused to cooperate with the ial Mass held in front of the proposal, Hesburgh said, the library. United States would have a per­
Hesburgh was, however, less fectly acceptable reason for end­enthusiastic about the offering ing her participation in the war. of torn draft cards. "I think the Hesburgh admitted that there offering of life has a place in the was some validity in the theorymass," he said, "Whether the 
that the moratorium maydestroying of draft ~.:ards has a 
actually prolong the war byplace is another question, and it 
stiffening Hanoi's resistance to can be debated from both sides. American peace offers. However, 
Teller decries secrecy in U.S. scientific policy 
By Tim Westman computers; !'resident Eisenhower's 1954 "Atoms for
The much-discussed topic of Peace" Geneva conference; andthe present nuclear armament the recent Apollo II moon shot. 
race was treated in a new light "Secrecy does not permitby Dr. Edward Teller last night open discussion," he continued,in a lively lecture entitled "The "and it does not allow us toU.S. Policy of Scientific inspect, to recognize ourSecrecy." The presentation was dangers. Questions must besponsored by the Student Union discussed by the ultimateA~.:ademic Commission and took authority of a democracy-theplace in a packed library people. If they cannot be, thereAuditorium at 8:00P.M. 
is no longer a democracy."

Teller, Professor of Physics at Teller further indicted secrecy the University of California, and as the real point of conflictwinner of the Enrico Fermi between the United States andPhysics A ward in 1960, opened the Soviet Union.
by stressing that "this question "Our true difference is notof secrecy is perhaps the most economic or ideological, but theurgent question scientists should difference between and opendiscuss." lie went on to quote society and a closed one," hen uclcar physics pioneer Niels stated.
Bohr on the contrast between As a means to alleviate thisscientific concealment and condition, he suggested that theexpostion: "In the cold war, one U.S. ·"open up all the way andshould expect that each side stop imitating the Russians; ifshould use the weapon it best we can do this, we may induce can handle. In a dictatorship, it them to open up and imitateis the weapon of secrecy; in a 
us."

democracy, the weapon of "Secrecy prevents us fromopenness." 
talking with our allies," added

The llungarian phsicist 
Teller. "If we can loosen thingscriticized the United States for up with them, the ~.:ommunists 

not adhering strictly to its ideal will find it hard to face not onlyprinciple of openness: "There the United States, but the united arc very few instances in which free world." 
we reveal our discoveries." 
In concluding, Teller

IIe proceeded to cite some of proposed that there be unilateralthose instances, which included disarmament as far as scientific 
the construction of electronic secrecy is concerned. 

The Students 
By Steve Hoffman 

understand themselves. Given a day to reflect upon 
A junior Theology major, Ryan quoted St. Paul in
Wednesday's moratorium, four articulate campus leaders from maintaining that the participants contrasting political camps in the moratorium were setting 
reacted strongly to its impact themselves free for freedom's upon the Notre Dame sake. community. "The feelings of those people 
Ed Roickle, off-campus transcend all social or political Senator and one of the power," he stated. Father Hesburgh, C.S.C. moratorium organizers, said he Ryan related that he bore the 
felt that the moratorium was first cross memorializing Notre very much a success, and Dame men killed in Vietnam. proceeded much as planned. The For Ryan, the cross imprinted turnout, he remarked, was in with the name of Robert D. excess of what was expected, Stark impressed him profoundly. and he also applauded the "Robert D. Stark came alive speakers as excellent and to me as I carried him, and when incisive. I planted the cross in the ground Roickekle was particularly he died again, and a little bit of 

impressed with the participation me died with him." of the people in the Mass during Ryan mentioned that he the singing of hymns for peace, became conscious of people 
and with the attention they gave celebrating freedom and life to receiving Communion. The during the moratorium. people seemed to be celebrating "It made me realize that no the true spirit and peace of the matter how powerful an Mass, he said. economic or political Caesar 
Ed Roickle "I was very pleased with the might be, the indomitable events as they occurred, and human spirit will overcome that 
he said that, "Hanoi's resistance hope that the number, diversity, Caesar," Ryan avowed. 

is pretty stiff already, and 

and enthusiasm of the people He cited the moratorium as an perhaps the moratorium will 
will carry over into November," assemblage of human beings who bring the kind of solution to our 
Roickle commented. resent an action, in their own government that would help to 
He strongly hopes that the (continued on page 2)soften Hanoi's position." 
response will be greater when 
Conversely, Hesburgh also 
the two-day moratorium,
conceded that there might be 
scheduled for November 13-14, 
some validity in the theory, will be activated. 
locally expounded by Tim 
Roickle denied any significant 
MacCarry, that the whole of 
opposition to the events, and 
Southeast Asia will inevitably 
reaffirmed his conviction that 
fall under Chinese domination. 
the people conducted themselves 
He suggested, however, that he in the spirit of peace.
personally did not have the 
Campus liberal Bernie Ryan
foreign policy acumen to pass 
amplified Roickle's sentiments,
judgement on the "inevitability" 
and observed that, for the first 
of things in Southeast Asia. 
time, he came to the realization 
Hesburgh also said, "I began 
that Notre Dame is a Christian 
feeling uneasy when we began to 
university. Ryan commended 
make troop commitments after 
the peaceful, contemplative

Eisenhower's administration. At 

atmosphere, and said that people Chris Wolfe (continued on page 2) were making an effort to 
Kunzler terms events pertinent 
By Pru Wear was thinking; that was most
"As far as I'm concerned, if important."

only one person here made an educated decision on Wednesday Responding to a question that about the war, the day was well the fact that more students, worth the effort put into it," faculty, and administration did Kay Kunzler, the SMC War not actively involve themselves Moratorium Chairman, said was disappointing, she said: yesterday. "I would rather have seen 
"I think many did, and for those ones who cared enough to that reason I feel the day was a learn than those who ,would great success." refuse to listen. The worst She stated that she considered people arc those who don't 


all of the events on both think about it." Kay Kunzler camp uses pertinent and Kunzler stated that she was in 
She was however, distressed

objective. agreement with the NO and SMC 
by the mandatory class

"It was a day devoted to decisions to hold classes on attendances called for at SMC.
internal education. We stressed Wednesday, commenting that it throughout the Moratorium that made the individual resolution She termed it the "narrow-minded imposition of a
no one should attempt to all the more meaningful and the impose the liberal point of view numbers of those attending particular point of view on those 
who felt otherwise."

on the conservatives. Everyone more impressive. 

PAGE 2 

THE OBSERVER. 



Hesburgh lauds Resistance Mass 
(continued from page 1) 
the time it looked good; it looked like a few people could solve the problem. Counter insurgency appealed to the Army and to the public imagination. But perhaps Eisenhower said it best when he said that it would be foolhardy for us to launch a war unless we were prepared to launch it full-scale, as we did against Germany; and obviously such a war is impossible under the present conditions." 
Father Hesburgh speculated that the United States would be unable to militarily respond to another insurgency similar to VietNam. 
"The American people simply would not abide by it," said the University President. "Such renewed action would be politically disastrous." When asked what his own response to such a renewed involvement would be, Father Hesburgh said, "I really don't know." 
Father Charles McCarragher, Vice President of Student Affairs, shared Father Hesburgh's warm feelings for the 


~----------~~~~~---~ . WE.lL.1 CHIE~ T~E 
<f'()tCI(ESr WAVTO GET 8llFFAL.O 15 
TO DIAL i AND
-

ARt A CODE 71~
-



MEWANNA GETTUM 
BUFFAL-O 
Get outta town without leaving campus. The lowest long distance rates are in effect every school night after 7 p.m. and all day Saturdays and Sundays. 

@ IndianaBell 
Use your long distance calling number. Save time. Dial your own calls. 
moratorium. In an interview he said it was "done with great dignity and with great reverence." 
"I believe the non-violent attitude was accepted by everyone," McCarragher continued, "for certainly we all believe in peace." 
McCarragher said that his first reaction to the moratorium was one of happiness because, "nothing but dignity, reverence and sincerity was demonstrated from the time the moratorium started until it ended in the afternoon." He expressed the 

Conservatives attack Moratorium 
(continued from page 1) 

country, which generates racism and exploitation. He stressed that action expresses this dissent 
much  more  vividly  than  do  
words.  
"This  was  by far the greatest  

thing I've seen at Notre Dame," he declared. 
belief that "everyone understood what others were doing and why they were doing it." 
He did find fault, however, with the destroying of draft cards that highlighted the Moratorium day Mass. He voiced disapproval of "draft card tearing, particularly at the Mass," but tempered his criticism by saying that the act was performed with "tact and respect." 
McCarragher and Hesburgh are in agreement over the significance of the moratorium. 
''The impact of this moratorium," said McCarragher, "must be felt by America's leaders." 
From the conservative end on the political spectrum, reactions clashing strongly with those of Roickle and Ryan were articulated by Tom Thrasher and Chris Wolfe. 

Former SLC member, Chris Wolfe, expressed his respect for certain segments of those supporting the moratorium who sincerely put forth reasonable and moderate arguments. However, a large segment, he feels, does not possess this moderation. 
He deplored this great number of people so dogmatic in their belief of the absolute immorality of the war. Wolfe described this group as a disturbing element on campus. 
"The academic community should be characterized by ra tiona! discussion, not by mindless acceptance of minority views and of what is essentially propaganda," Wolfe contended. 
He also noted that nothing changed his view that Wednesday was a day of propaganda rather than a day of discussion. 
Wolfe was disturbed that many people don't see reasonable arguments for the morality of war within the confines of the moral principles of Catholicism or ChristianitY. 
Thrasher, one of this year's Stay Senators, was not impressed with the turnout for the moratorium. Estimates he received from those connected with the events ranged from 400 to 2000, and he remarked that the turnout was proportionally small to the student body. 
He was very surprised by the great number of students who attended class as regular on Wednesday, and he described those who went to others' classes in addition to their own as "acting as individuals." Thrasher contended that classes were in 50% attendance . 
Thrasher also decried the decision of many professors to cancel their classes. 

"Due to the propaganda and Publicity concerning the moratorium, coupled with the student's desire to cut classes, some teachers allowed themselves to be intimidated and denied the students the right to attend class." 
Committees study grades, super final 
By Ann Conway as pass, but this bill was frozen 
Pam Carey, SMC Academic in committee because basically Affairs Commissioner, yesterday "it wasn't as liberal as we want­announced the formation of two edit to be." subcommittees to the Academic The Academic Affairs Com­Standing Committee to study mittee also plans to work on changes in the Senior compre-being heard in the Rank and hensive exam system and in the Tenure Committee. Majors are SMC grading system particularly being encouraged to write re­in the area of pass/fail. commendations concerning pea-
According to Miss Carey, ple in their majors who might be there is nothing in the catalogue up for evaluation by the com­which states the necessity of an mittee. These recommendations exam at the end of the senior would go through the depart­year at St. Mary's. In many ment headand would be read by majors, a senior tbesiS, project or the members of the committee. seminar is already substituted. "I According to Miss Carey, think kids rebel against the idea "Students have to get organized of a super-final, not the idea of a in order to be heard and listened comprehensive summing up of to. As things come up in com­the four years of work, and mittee, I find I need key people consequently they would not be in the various majors to get the against the change to a seminar opinions of the majors and to or thesis in the exam's place." organize for or against a bill or One subcommittee plans an eval-actions. Having students serving uation. of the comprehensive on the various committees has system as a whole, and ways to increased the effectiveness of the change the system to make it community government, and has more effective. "There is a possi-made it more workable than it bility of a change in the English was last year. It is possible to get majors comprehensive system by things changed; we just need the end of this academic year." people interested in working, 
The second subcommittee and people who are willing to plans a complete evaluation of give up time to learn and hell= 
the SMC grading system, particu-,----------------, larly the extension of the pass/ 1111, Observer Is published dii!Fv fail system from 6 to 8 courses during the college temester except
vacations by the students of the 

during the four years. Miss Carey University of Notre Dame and st. stated that there was a recom-Mllr'y's College. SutKcrlptlons maymendation in committee to ex-bO purchased tor $8 from The 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame tend the pass/fail and to accept a Ind., 46556. Second clau post• 
"D" rather than the present "C" ,_;_Pll_ld...;':....N_o_t_re-=-O.::.ame-=-..:.ln..:.d::.::·...:46=5=-56:.:·:.____~ 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1969 PAGE 3
THE OBSEIWER. 

Char Broiled 
FAMILIES 

Steaks and 
WELCOME 

Hamburgers 
11 a.m. to 12 p.m.

Band pained by tactics of'Fighting Irates' 
The following statement was seemed to be an acceptable solu­rally. Please don't read this as a team prior to the game. A num­given to the Observer by band tion. But, bombardment contin­dare and go running out to the ber of them had colds and the secretary Steve Whitmore. ued, and it reached its climax next rally to test this statement. coaches felt the stifling heat of 
Friday night. The Band promises to stick by
The Friday night before the the fieldhouse would not help ~-------------4
In the wide open spaces its words. 

these conditions. The changesMSU game marked the disso­
THE FIRST FRIDAY 
through which we marched, it Now, I can see "a policeman that resulted from the switch in
lution of a great Notre Dame 
was virtually impossible for the without his nightstick... or a locations were due to the lack of
tradition-pep rallies in the 
Meat Squad to hold back stu­bugler without his horn. . . ," time for preparation. The band
Fieldhouse. But another cus­
dents disturbed over the change but a Notre Dame rally without did not find out about the 
Dance Concert 

tom-using the Band for target 
in pep rally sites. The "Fighting the Band and the Victory March? change until 10:30 on the mor­
practice-reminded one of the 2nd Floor LaFortune
lrates" threw stones, bottles, So throw your T.P. and bot­ning of the rally. Consequently
good old days, when men were 9:00 II :30 this Friday
firecrackers, and, of course, toi­tles if you like, but not at the there was not enough time to
men, and lights were out at ten. 
after the pep rally 

let paper from frighteningly Band. completely coordinate the ef-
During this time each bands­
close range. They broke through USC rally forts of all people involved, 
$1.00 per person man risked life, limb, and instr\1­our ranks stealing drum sticks 

The Southern Cal and Navy which accounts for the band not and damaging other instruments.
ment every time he marched at a 
rallies will be held in the field-playing the alma mater at the Strange as it may sound to h · 1 1 d end of the rally.
rally. Students converged on the 
Band, stealing instruments and 
ouse as pre~10us Y P anne_ 

1111111111111111111111111111111
some, the Band has a job to do ' ..u11111111111111111111111111 n11111 
inflicting pain-much the same however the Au Force rally will .-­as you might have witnessed that on football Saturdays, and this be held in the ACC due to the 3 This Coupon Good for a Free A & W 10 cent Drink : Friday. Then, there was no one 
commitment takes precedence scheduled destruction of the : with Purchase ofSandwich. :­
over marching at rallies. When­
to hold back the "loyal Notre fieldhouse in November. The last : 5 
ever a bandsman is injured or his
Dame students." Finally it be­minute decision to hold the 5 CHAUNCEY'S A & W DRIVE-IN :
instrument harmed, the Satur­
came too costly physically and MSU rally in the ACC was due 5 L. W. E. AT SAMPLE -:
day performance suffers. There­
financially, and the Band deci­to the medical C_ondition of the ~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIWIIIIIIU OliO 111111111111111111 •
fore, the Band will march at theded not to march at future 
Southern California pep rally.
rallies. This decision was strictly 
But it will be up to the student 
a last resort, as the bandsmen 




ATTENTION RACE FANS
body to decide whether or not
greatly desired to march if their 
we will march at rallies thereaf­
safety could be assured. 
ter. If any bandsman is hit by
Voila-the "Meat Squad" was 
stones, bottles, fireworks, toilet 
The position of
born! These red-blooded Ameri­
paper, or any other flying missile 
cans offered to restrain the 
obviously directed toward the
Notre Dame butchers if the 
Band, it will make that their last 
Grand Prix Chairman is still open
Band would continue to plav the 
appearance at a Notre Dame pep 
school so at the rallies. This 
Feature Time 


for further information please write:
D. Rides a Horse 
1:15-5:15-9:15

NOW 
No. 1-3:15-7:15 

SOCIAL COMMISSIONER 
BOX 427 

CHARLTON HESTON JESSI~~ WALTER 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA or call 7489 between 3 and 5 pm



,... ~]~1~
,.:::_: ,.:..: . . ...·.. .... .. ) .....<~Ol~R b10elu•e Umted Art1sts ~ 
~ get carried away when you come around... and we love it! 
clothe you (with synthetics) wash your clothes (with detergents) brush your teeth (with nylon) paint your room (with resins) carpet your home (with polystyrene) wrap your lunch (with waxpaper) by using petrochemicals made from petroleum hydrocarbons. 
There's more to oil than oil. More to an oil company than you realize. Find out how much more. And how you can contribute to an expand· ing society through a growth company like ours. In research, manufacturing, or administration and sales. We'll be on campus: OCTOBER 27, 1969 
An equal opportunity employer 





cosmonauts who have yet to return to earth. . . . . 5 HU·h)f,RV HTTPPv~ ..,..:r;npy : 
Each time the Soviet Union or the United States hfts a man mto orbit, human~ty;: .... ! 1U 1* \..; lU L1 *l.1L llu.. l* h.1:.;;::J : usually follows the venture with acute intere~t of a ~owing child explorin? somethm,gE:-~HE( 1 T/THE~Tl "":)fi .'\?f"Ti?ES ,,, § which is new to him. The journeys usually raise qu~sbons about the potential of mansE v \.._, (\ _._ 0fiJ r r!.l-11 u1:.. ••• : abilities and the limits of technology. The ~S land~ng on the moon serve~ to,persuad_e!: (\]·JL'{ rf1A7Q CIT,VNI L'DSf-UC:"'' \ATAS E 
even some of the skeptical to admit that qmte possibly the scope of mankmd s reach IS iii 'J ' _ \LY.. 'lj Gl\ ul_,J VV ~ : unlimited if he seeks to channel his initiati~e an~ imaginat~on in a particula~ di;ecti_on_.. ~ LI"~~fTr[·VD 1-LA(JT (JTJT10t;'T) prr:n 5 
The space efforts on the other hand, raise senous questiOns about,mankmd ~ prwnbes. 5_l.Y_ 1 -l'J • u J:i 11 LJh. Ul : If America could put a man on the moon, many wondered, why can t she eradiCate many E 41 000 LIVEs 0tl TH r ~iV rrQR : 
of the social evils at home. The problems of the poor and the underprivileged, the • . ' , --... liJ LJ .L i~ :
j_ 

undereducated and the undernourished would seem to have a higher priority than man's! BUT ITS ST.ILL JU sy LJ'l7£ NE'·Tl ~ efforts to assert the fact that he can conquer the natural limits established by motheri£ "-' l_i.._..J VV! -= earth. = ~N~ 7VlY r)UTIJUMBER:rD BUm • ME. ~ Most advocates of a reclassification of our national priorities along these lines cite the. A~/f/~ r YO~ cAtL R Jr wf-N1J ,1 l 1 7 .~.'i !: countless billions of dollars that the space program consumes. They are quick to remark= 1 N ABS0l UTt: Ly f RE E ='1 0 NE PW pW E L L THR0W ~ about t~~ many areas into which funds could be channeled to provide for improvement~CALL~ NOW I ASKFOR EASY otctc.U f:.ET, 6~~CI~10NRZ~f: 
PAGE 4 
THB OBSEIWER. 

THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
DONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Publisher GAETANO DE SAPIO, Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3 1966 NOIRE DA 
.

Space co-operahon 
With nation wide attention focused on the moratorium, the Soviet venture into space:U.t_; b 
. •
has not received too much publicity in the Amencan press. : We wish to offer our congratulations to the Soviets and our hope for continued c success. We join countless others in the fervent hope for the safe return of theE 
of conditions here at home. 1 
No doubt there is much validity to their argument. There are limitations though, for one could argue that the exploration of space might open up untold avenues and provide a wealth of knowledge which would benefit mankind to a great degree in the future. There are also certain economic questions involved in channeling all funds spent on space exploration into social action work. 
Perhaps the whole question can provide an opportunity for the beginning of a better relationship between the United States and the Soviet Union. Scientists of both countries suggest that cooperation on space exploration between the two giants would be worthwhile. The joint effort would not only save each side countless numbers of dollars but might also aid toward curtailing "space competition" which in all likelihood influences many decisions about each country's space objectives. Together both countries could agree on targets for exploration which could prove to be more in the interest of 
mankind as a whole. 
We encourage both countries to seriously consider the possibility, and ask Americans to support the idea. Such cooperation will not only bring tangible benefits to both countries but also hasten the day when the two learn to live on more amiable terms with 
one another. 
The Fieldhouse 
This evening's pep rally will be held in it's rightful home, the Notre Dame fieldhouse. 
Without a doubt pep rallies just couldn't be the same any where else. At least not for 
the Notre Dame men who have ever shared the emotionalism that goes into a rally in the 
grand old place. 
The university intends to have the old girl torn down, and if she goes we know many 
an alumni, Notre Dame fan, and student that will mourn her passing. 
Funny thing, in times when traditionalism is seemingly an outmoded thing, a lot of 
people seem to wonder if the fieldhouse really deserves what she is going to get. Or 
rather, if the N.D. fans deserve to go without pep rallies in the fieldhouse. 
Without knowing all the factors which are governing the university's decision to have 
her removed, it would be foolish to argue for existence on the basis of football rallies 
alone. We would like to though-as would a number of Notre Damer's. 
We feel that there is a definite need to reexamine the decision to scuttle it. The Notre 
Dame Art Department which is sorely in need of space is looking to the fieldhouse as afi 
answer to its needs. 
Professor Thomas Fern, acting head of the Notre Dame Art Department, has come up 
with a $1,825,000 renovation plan which provides for a face lifting which would make 
the fieldhouse a "center of the arts on campus." There would be classroom space, rooms 
for studios and exhibition areas for the aspiring. The plan also provides for the possibility 
of wood carving facilities and a metal working shop. They are also thinking about 
constructing a forum with tiered seats to be used for plays, poetry readings, concerts and 
other cultural events. 
We understand the university's current financial problems. Thus we can see where the 
university can not afford to make a commitment at this time to Professor Fern's plans. 
We feel however, that there is no need to rush the-demolition of the building. Professor 
Fern should be granted adequate time to present his plans and to search for the money 
needed. 
Maybe we could arrange to keep the fieldhouse around for a little longer anyway. At 
least until Purdue and Pat O'Brien have the chance to see her again next year. 
David Breen, Business Manager Timothy J. Dineen, Ad.Mgr. News Editor: Glenn Corso Copy Editor: David Stauffer Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, 
Ann Conway, Laura Haferd, Jeanne Sweeney, Prudence Wear layout Editor: Mary Beth Crimmins Photo Editor: Phil Bosco 
Features Editor: Tom Ehrbar 
Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin 
Night Editor: Phil Bosco 
Layout Design: T.S. Hamilton Headlines: Frank Weigand layout: Susie Bury, Mike Bridgman 

The opinions in the editorials news analyses, and columns of Th~ Observer are solely those of the authors and editors of The Observer and do not necessarily reflect th~ views of St. Mary's College, the Uni· versity of Notre Dame, their adminis­trations, faculty or student bodies. 
111111111111111111111111111111111111 
5por ImmeCliate 
Sale ! i• 1 Sl:~h lhT Us e~L War 
• .,_)
111111111111111111111 
ELUSH,!TROPIC 
:en.., rrTIN'"' 
· • SMILIN' MELVIN WA~H. D.C. :
111111
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
Letter 
Editor:. 
We recpgnize the concern for peace on. the part of college students through-out the nation. We are aware of the dedication of the youth movement so seen in the recent mobilization of the October 15th Moratorium for Peace. 
There is one problem of particilar concern to the American Red Cross that we hope will be brought to the attention of ther students on your campus involved in this movement as well as other students and faculty. Recent figures show some 413 men arc known to be prisoners of war in North Vietnam. There are another 918 missing and believed captured. These men are not there by choice. All Americans of good will should insist on their receiving the humane treatment called for by the Conventions. 
Although North Vietnam is a signator to the 1949 Geneva Conventions, which covers the treatment of prisoners of war, it has refused to allow delegates of the International Committee of 
The American Red Cross is intensifying its efforts to open channels of communication and relief to U.S. servicemen being 
held as prisoners of war in North Vietnam. 
A resolution sponsored by the American society urging that prisoners of war be given the benefits and protection of the Geneva Conventions was adopted without a dissenting vote last month by the representatives of 77 governments and 91 national Red Cross societies attending the quadrennial International Conference of the Red Cross in Istanbul. 
Last week the American Red Cross followed this action with a cable message to Red Cross societies in all parts of the world, asking that they appeal to the Red Cross society of North Vietnam to take appropriate steps to ensure that American prisoners are receiving the 

.1 : 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111~,
J : 
ALE R~ GE':'S ~ : 
~ 
::
:~\ 5 

~ .,:rr.,.~:-r\TG GnE "' .,
..:1-l~ L:.i.L \../ 0 ••
'~'j E 
~ S 
Red Cross to visit prison camps where Americans are being held. The Hanoi government has also refused to provide the International Committee with the names of American prisoners they hold or to permit the regular flow of mail between pruoners and their families in this country. 
The American Red Cross is intensifying its efforts to open channels of communication in accordance with the Conventions. Our responsibility as an organization and our humane concern for the welfare of these men is our only motivation. 
This effort can be even more effective if we have the support of students in recognizing this Red Cross mission. 
We hope that you will consider utilizing the attached materials, either as a story or as the basis for an editorial in your publication. 
Thank you for your attention. 
Sincerely yours,· 
Pete Upton 
National Director 
Office of Public Relations 
humane treatment called for in the Conventions. The Red Cross societies were also urged to have their governments address similar appeals to the government of North Vietnam. 
Latest Department of Defense reports show that 413 American officers and enlisted men are known to be prisoners of war in North Vietnam and 918 others are missing and believed captured. Both through the world Red Cross organization and through diplomatic and pther channels, the American· Red Cross has sought unceasingly since the beginning of the Vietnam conflict to assist ,U.S. prisoners. 
Due to limitations of space we cannot print in its entirety the copy of the congressional that accompanied this correspondence. It is available to anyone interested in the Observer office -Ed. ' 


THE OBSERVER

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17 1969 PAGE 5 
The plight of the T.A.'s 
-$2800 per year plus tuitiOn tor a teachmg
This is the second article in a series On Friday, September 26, a resolution raising T.A. salaries at Notre Dame has 
assistant teaching 3 credit hours per semester in
de scrihinK the numerous difficulties concerning T.A. stipends was proposed to never been golden we have suggested that 
his first year of teaching at Notre Dame.
which face the Teaching Assistant here at the English faculty at the first depart­once the stipend is raised to the minimal
We further resolve that since the University
Notre Dame. The Hnglish dept. will serve mental meeting. This resolution read as $3500, the school should then undertake
of Notre Dame has a responsibility to maintain 
as a model. follows: the moral task of keeping wages in line
this salary at the level of a "living wage", the stipend should be increased annually at a rate with t~e rising costs of living, through
By Bill Lorimer 
The Department of English recommends that 

yearly mcremcnts. the University of Notre Dame raise the stipends 
corresponding with the average, annual increase 
in faculty salaries. Because the University of
In early September 1969 we returned Both resolutions were forwarded to
of teaching assistants who are given sole respon· Notre Dame has not initiated any action to

to the Notre Dame campus with fresh sibility for the teaching of courses and assigning Father Walsh on Monday, September 29. 
alleviate these inequities during the past several
hopes and a new resolve to negotiate an of grades, the raise to be effective for the Receipt of the departmental resolutions 
years and because of the urgent nature of this
equitable settlement with the University. academic year 1970-71 and to insure the was acknowledged by Father Walsh but
resolution we feel justified in recommendingBehind us lay a year's experience in following minimum scale: nothing has been heard about the T.A.
implementation of these salary increases on or-$3500 per year plus tuition for a teaching
dealing with this administration and their before the beginning of the second semester of rider which accompanied this document. 
assistant teaching 6 credit hours per semester in

disappointing answer to our general peti­the present 1969·70 academic year. The promise of a bookstore discount
his first year of teaching at Notre Dame.

tion. We felt it only fair to resubmit our This resolution was signed unani­for all leaching assistants proved empty
:-$2800 per year plus tuition for a teaching

position for consideration in this new when the first people attempting to ask
ass1stant teaching 3 credit hours per semester in mously by the English T.A.'s and sup­academic year. Accordingly, C.S. II irst his first year of teaching at Notre Dame. ported by the signatures of over 30 for this discount were denied it. Father and I arranged an appointment with -In addition to the above, in each subse­English profes~ors and instructors. Walsh had apparently informed Brother Father John Walsh. Father Walsh gener­quent year of teaching at the University the Conan of the change, hut no progress had
The major differences between the 
ously gave us over an hour of his time teaching assistant will receive a $300 per year been made during the entire summer in
departmental and T.A. resolutions con­
during which he reiterated the concern raise for a "full-time" assignment (6 credit cerned the time of implementation and requesting lists of the teaching T.A.'s 
hours per semesterl and a $150 per year raise

which the administration felt for the the problem of keeping the salary at a from the several departments involved.
for a half·time assignment (3 credit hours per

Teaching Assistant salary problem. He responsible level once raises were ob­The l·:nglish list was finally requested and
semester).

confirmed the extension of a IO'JI• staff tained. Because of University foot­delivered to the bookstore by a T.A. The discount at the bookstore and the availa­It passed unanimously. dragging, the stipend in the English parking sticker concession fared little bility of faculty lot stickers to all T.A.'s To this departmental resolution the Department has not been raised since better. Because of administrative confu­who were solely responsible for a class. English T.A.'s added as a rider a signed 
1965 when the ll·vel was frozen at $2100. sion several non-T.A.'s and non-teachingOn the other hand, he insisted that the resolution which urged further steps from 
The blame for this harmful economic T.A.'s were able to obtain faculty lot administration was unable to find funds the administration. 
policy docs not rest upon the Department clearance. By the time this tangle was 
We the undersigned resolve that "Graduate

to increase T.A. salaries or space t<1> of English or any other department in unraveled, at least two eligible T .A.'s 
teaching Assistants" in the English Department

provide us with offices. ll was also made which such a sadly insufficient level were left without stickers. One of these
at the University of Notre Dame should and

quite clear that the adnunistration consid­teachers was told that she would have to
must be paid a salary commensurate w1tlo their prevails. Responsiblity can be firmly 
ers all T.A.'s, at least those in English, as 
duties, responsibilities, and contributions. placed upon an administration which buy a sticker from the University. The ultimately replaceable through increase(! Recognizing the gross inadequacy of the pres· perpetrates this unethical scale by bud-' security chief then told her that if he had faculty teaching loads. With full cogni­ent stipend of $2100 plus tuition, we are calling his way, no T.A.'s would get stickers next
getary restrictions upon these various 
zance of this hanging sword we affably for a raise which insures the following mini­year.
departments. Due to the enormity of thepromised Father Walsh that all reasonable mum scale: injustice the English T.A.'s have felt it Attitudes like that of the chief are
-$3500 per year plus tuition for a teaching

pressure would be exerted until this justifiable to request a mid-year raise in sadly enough, more often the rule tha~
assistant teaching 6 credit hours per semester in

university offered all of its T.A.'s a fair salary. Furthermore, since the record of the exception at Notre Dame.
his first year of teaching at Notre Dame.

<1nd responsible salary. 
The old man and change 
By Chuck Darst However, that kind of enthu­Yet why is it something we 
siasm seemed strange to me strike out at in fear? Most of us Once while I was working in somehow, and it struck me how 
spend our whole lives trying to Chicago for the Burlington Rail­so many of us -young people as pile up security, something we road, a fellow worker -an old 

well as old, myself included -can hold on to. However, it black -shared with me some 
look with such utter terror upon takes little insight to see that the interesting thoughts on the na­

social change. l don't think it's 
only thing we can take securityture of campus disturbances. 

because this way is better or that 
in is the thing we fear most ...

"Ya know," he said, "the young 
way is better, but because peo­
insecurity. The only consistency people today are uncovering 

ple are genuinely afraid of doing 
is inconsistency, and even that is some truths. I don't know exact­

anything new . . . or anything 
a contradiction. Change shouldly what it's all about, but I know 

old in a new way. Turns out the be "the accepted thing". Theit's corning. Ya see, everytime 
opposite of courage is not only thing we have to avoid issomething this big is happening, 

cowardice, it is conformity. Too that particular brand of blind,it's truth trying to get out; like a 
many of . us do what we do herdlike acceptance which be­volcano, it can only go so long because everyone else is doing it. comes so crippling when we letwithout erupting." 

Worse still, we become extreme­
it close our open-mindedness,Here was a man, I discovered, ly concerned with keeping the shut off our boyish naivety, per­who still had a certain faith in 

status quo simply because it is 
meate our attitudes, and in ef­the possibilities of change ... of 

"the accepted thing" and to 
fect, control us. Instead it would people becoming aware of them­

fight madly to hold on to that 
seem better to continually exa­selves, each other, and as a poet­

WITHOUT EVER REALLY 
mine our present and challengetype friend of mine once said KNOWING WHY. Where does all absolutes in the hope of "the green possibilities of !if~ 

such intolerance come from? In growing a little bit more human. 

after birth." It was really en­
order to fear change I guess you My friend in the railroad yardcouraging to sec somebody his 
have to feel somehow threatened had a sense of that I think, age -he must have been pushing 

by that change. And in order to 
although he had been doing the 

70 -still able to get excited 
feel threatened by tl\at change 
same thing for 46 years.

about things to come. you have to have something to 
lose. I suppose it is precisely this • And this is what gives me a
that makes university trustees 
certain hope -a belief that
feel so paranoid when a student 
people will change, that people
body president appears before 
are capable of altering and de­Star-spangled them with a list of proposed veloping attitudes, that they can

innovations. The old guy work­
view things with a less frightened 
ing for the railroad feels none of 
mind and stay open to alterna­
bummer 
this paranoia, he has nothing to 
tive ways of thinking and work­
lose, he is ffee not only to 
ing. Change, when viewed in the
1ccept change but to welcome it. 
light of something greater called
That's a hard thing for most 
growth, becomes the vessel of
of us too, welcome change. But

Occasional Bluegrass Band 
hope, the medium of truth, and
the more I look at it, the more

Nakitomi 
not something to be feared.
that seems like the most free

Dee Bacon and Pual Guernsey 
rational, intelligent thing to do:

Softly Spoken 
The old black at 'work had a
Especially these days. Social

Hllen Zwicker 
psychologists tell us that when strong sense of that too, and for 

OBSERVER 
FEATURES 
MOD WEEKEND OPENS 
Mod Weekend, sponsored by the Student Union Social Co_mmissi<;>n, opens with a loud roar at the pep rally tomght. G1rls from throughout the Mid-West will invade Notre Dame this weekend. Over a thousan? girls are coming from as far away as Clark College m Iowa, not to mention those California girls from USC. Saint Mary's of the Woods, Mundelein, Rosary, Mercy College in Detroit, Nazareth and many other schools will be well represented. 
After the pep rally there will be a mixer in Stepan Center. The girls will be there to meet Notre Dame men while under the influence of the "Soul Sounds" an eighteen piece soul group. The girls are then o~ their own until Saturday afternoon when they will w_atch. Notre Dame trounce the Trojans. Saturday mght IS the concert by "Blood, Sweat, and Tears." 
Sunday is free as the girls prepare to return to school after a memorable weekend at Notre Dame. Ot~er activities which are to attract the girls attcnt10,n are_ the bands in front of Badin, St. Edward s, Sonn, Zahrn and Morrissey halls before the ga_me ~n Saturday as well as the weekly Rathskellar rn1xer m the basement of LaFortune Student Center from 2 to 5 every Sunday afternoon. 
our parents were young "a gen­this reason seemed a lot smarter eration" was a period of time than most of the "educated" 

Tonight -9-12 about fifteen years long and that people I know. I used to sit and 25 cents now -because of rapid techno­listen to him for hours. He knew 
logical and cultural change in who he was. He was at home 

Watch Warhol 
every area of our life -a genera­with himself. And like Zorba the 

'Mario Banana' 
tion lasts only three or four Greek, he had cut the rope of 

'My Hustler'
(faculty-student coffee gather­years. These days, people who fear and was free. I found out he ings every Wed. and Thurs. I -graduate just a few years ahead was a revolutionary too, and 
'The Velvet Underground and Nico' 
3) of us arc sometimes whole men­that was when he said, "People 
7:30 and 9:30, tonight in Engr. Audt.
talities apart from our own. should dance when they are 

CAF Patrons Free; Gen. Admission 75 cents
happy!"
Like it or not, change comes. 

~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
'E OBSER(!M____________________:__FRID~Y_,__QCTOBER 17,1969
PAGE 6 
Science academy appoints Gordon 
MOD 

WEEKEND 
DANCE­
MIXER 

Featuring the 
XVIII 

~Piece(£) 
SOUL SOUNDS 
MAKE IT OVER TO STEPAN CENTER TONIGHT AT 8:30 
The 
girls 
will 
be 
waiting 
for 
you 
COM£ 
ON OVER 

A GOOD SOUND AND A GOOD TIME 
STUDENT 

UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION 
Dr. Robert Gordon, associate dean of the College of Life Sciences at the University of Notre Dame, has been appointed to a six-year term on the United States National Committee of the International Union of Bio­logical Sciences, by the president of the National Academy of Science, Dr. Philip Handler. 
The committee advises the 
president of the Academy on all 
matters concerning United Sta­
tes participation in international 
programs in the biological sci­ences. 
As Gord!Sn begins his term, one of the most important prob­lems facing the committee con­cerns the continuation of the International Biological Pro­gram. This program, originally planned as a five-year venture, is scheduled to disband in 1971. The committee would like to continue receiving information from the 60-country network of biologists, who have been evalu­ating the world's environmental quality, productivity, and popu­

lation status. Gordon, whose research inter­
. ests include ecology, population dynamics and cold-blooded ver­tebrates, is also a proponent of better communication between the scientific community and laymen and hopes to help the committee set up a world-wide communication system for sci­entific information. In addition, he is a member of the Pacific Science Association's standing committee for science informa­tion. 
His other memberships in­clude: the American Association for Advanced Science, the American Society for Zoology, the ~cological Society of Ameri­ca, the Herpetologists' League, and the Herpetological Society of Japan. 
Gordon has taught at Notre Dame since 1958, and has served as bqth acting head of the bio­logy department and editor of the American· Midland Naturalist. 
59( 


• 
Burger King. Home of the Whopper. 


501 DIXIEWAY NORTH, SOUTH BEND 
L___ _ 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1969 THE OBSERJJER. 
Emergencies close schools 
A comprehensive national survey of Catholic school facilities by a University of Notre Dame educational research team has com:luded that Catholic school closings have occurred as emergency measures rather than as part of an overall educational plan. 
In an article in the November 
U.S. Catholicflubilee, Dr. Richard fl. Metzcus, an assistant professor of education at Notre Dame, and two of his doctoral students, Philip T. Sciortino and the Rev. Lawrence M. Deno, report on "Project Schoolhouse," an analysis of data supplied by 147 diocesan school superintendents and 346 Catholic school administrators. 
The study revealed that Catholic school closings and grade eliminations effective this September were: 
--Largely the result of emergency measures and not f Iowing from a recognized censensus on the goals ot Catholic education. 
-Most prevalent among small, parish-controlled elementary schools handicapped by size in trying to provide a quality education. 
--Generally decided by a combination of administrative levels, with diocesan authority mentioned most often and ~chool boards rarely cited, leading to the report's conclusion that "existent Catholic school boards were not 
perceived  to  be  policy-making  
units."  
-Most  frequently  attributed  

to an insufficient supply of religious as teachers, poor financial support, and dwindling enrollment, but more realistically described as a result ol the inefficiency of a decentralized "system" of 
education. 
--Usually effected without firm plans for utilization of abandoned facilities. 
-Indicative of "the inability of Catholic schools to confront current educational problems." 
The report said its findings "project a continuance of c n ro II rncnt losses, grade eliminations, and school closings," and its authors urged that more consideration be given the manner in which such decisions are made. 
"Future decisions regarding the existence of a school or a grade level should be mitigated not by expediency, but by an mformed effort to establish a viable system of Catholic schools," the report stated. 
It advocated a widening of decision-making to include parishoners, religious communities, and the clergy, and it stressed the necessity of 

Dr.Fahey headsOER 
Dr. Frank J. Fahey, associate professor of sociology and an­thropology was recently named associate director of the Office for Education Research (OER) at the University of Notre Dame. The Rev. William B. Friend is acting director. 
Fahey, who is also associate director of the Social Science Training and Research Labora­tory, is known for his research with youth, Catholic school studies, poverty and manpower problems. He is also interested in applying computer program min and statistics to studies in educa­tion. 
The OER became a compo­nent of the new Institute for Studies in Education at Notre Dame last July. Formerly it was a part of the Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society. 
In expanding its areas of inter­est to become a continuing pro­gram of basic and applied re­search and training, the OER has added several new staff mem­bers. 

HOMECOMING '69 QUEEN CONTEST 
1. ALL ENTRIES MUST INCLUDE 
A) ONE WALLET-SIZE PHOTO OF YOUR LOVELY LITTLE LADY WITH HER NAME AND SCHOOL LISTED ON THE BACK. B.) BE SURE TO INCLUDE YOUR N4.ME AND LOCAL ADDRESS. 
2. ENTRIES MUST BE SUBMITTED BY MAIL TO: QUEEN CONTEST HOMECOMING '69 
BOX 427 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556 
3. ALL ENTRIES MUST BE RECEIVED BY MIDNITE FRIDAY, OCT. 17, 1969 
PICTURES OF FINALISTS WILL APPEAR IN THE OBSERVER ON MONDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1969, WITH VOTING FOR THE 1969 HOMECOMING QUEEN IN THE DINING HALLS 
THAT EVENING  
1111111111111111111111111111111  
All checks for Homecoming Bids received no later than midnite October 19th.  must Sunday,  be  

_________________________P.;,..Ac.::G;.::E__,7 
Due to a change in seating arrangements additional floor seats have been made available for Blood, Sweat and Tears. They are available now at the A. C. C. Office. 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

NOTRE DAME ITS PEOPLE AND ITS LEGENDS 
by FRANCIS WALLACE This is the story of the University of Notre Dame from its founding to the present-the story of its people, _its traditions, its sports, 1ts great events and achtevements, and Its new expectations. 
1067 ............$6.95 
Francis X. Wallace, the author, 
will be at the Bookstore 
Sat. Morning 
from 10 am to Noon 
-FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1969 
THE OBSERVER.

PAGE 8 
Mets win 
Wonder of wonders, miracle of miracles 

Oriole dugout to protest but pitch off the wall at the 396
NEW YORK (UPI) -Ama­series. It was the third wild Don Buford made a long run zing! celebration by fans who cele­Dimuro ruled Jones was safe. foot mark for a double leading but was just short of the ball as Ron Swoboda's eighth inning brated the same way when the Clendenon rapped a 2 -2 off the eighth. he backhanded it on one hop for 
double capped a typical come Mets clinched both the division pitch for a two run homer that Clendenon tried to bunt two a double that scored Jones with 
made it 3 -2. It was the third pitches but fouled them off and
back rally that started with a crown and the playoffs at home. the winning run. 
r homer of the series for Clen­then swung away and hit an After Ed Charles flied out,
smudge of shoe polish Thursday Jerry Koosman, rocked for a 
denen and the last time that was opposite field drive to right that
and the New York Mets, base­two-run homer by Orioles start­Jerry Grote hit a bounder to ball's l 00 to l shot, won the ing pitcher Dave McNally in the done by a National Leaguer was was foul by a foot. He then Boog Powell at first Powell bob­
in that 1957 series when Ed

World Series with a 5 -3 victory third inning, settled down to grounded out. bled it for an error and then over the Baltimore Orioles. pitch a five hitter and he became Mathews did it for the Braves. Swoboda then hit a liner Watt Jet his throw get away at Victory by the once woe­the only pitcher to win Carl Yastrzemski did it for Bos­down the left field line that was first for a second error and
two ton in 1967. "air by a few feet. Swoboda came in to score.
begone Mets, four games to one, games in the series. The Orioles 
The homer helped win Clen­
touched off a wild celebration gto only 23 hits in the series, the denon the automobile &iven to
on the field by Mets fans who lowest total ever for a five game 
the player of the series and the
sang, shot off firecrackers, ran series. 
feeling at that point was that the
up flags, tore up the bases and The Mets ignored all the odds 
Mets would now rally to win

even the grass of Shea Stadium, and completed one of the most 
even though they were still be­
and painted "New York's No. l" incredible success stories in 
hind, 3 -2. The only question
on the fence. sports history in a way that was how.
The Mets, who'd never even would have to be considered 
Leading off the seventh inning 
been above ninth place before almost normal for them. 
was AI Weis, the .215 hitter who
this season, wiped out a 3 -0 It began with that spot of 
won the second game for the

deficit on a two-run homer by shoe polish. 
Mets. He promptly homered to
Donn Clendenon in the sixth Jones, leading off the sixth 
tie the game 3 -3. Naturally, he 

and a solo homer in the seventh inning, claimed he was hit by had never hit one in Shea Sta­
by AI Weis, a .215 hitter, and Dave McNally's first pitch but dium before and it was only his
won the game on Swoboda's umpire Lou Dimuro ruled he run-scoring double in the eighth. hadn't been hit. 
third of the season. His first two in July helped beat the Chicago
The shattered Orioles, who'd While Jones was protesting, won l 09 games during the regu­Met manager Gill Hodges walked Cubs on two consecutive days. lar season, then let in an insur­out of the dugout holding the Weis wound up with five hits in II trips in the series and he
ance run for the Mets by com­ball. He showed a stain of shoe 
also had four walks and a sacri­
mitting two errors. polish on it to Dimuro -and the fice fly.
A crowd of 57,397 -.the umpire changed his mind and 
Weaver sent up a pinch hitter
largest paid crowd ever to see a ruled that Jones had been hit on 
for McNally in the eighth and
game at Shea Stadium -started the foot and awarded him first running onto the field as left­base. brought in Eddie Watt in the last Jimmy Jones (left) and Sandy Durko (right) are new and old fielder Cleon Jones was tapping The change of decision of the eighth. foes of the Irish. Sophomore quarterback Jones directs the Trojan his glove before catching the fly Jones, who had only two hits offense while Durko, who stole IIi Joe Theismann pass last year
brought Orioles manager Earl by Dave Johnson that ended the Weaver bouncing out of the in the series, slammed a 3 -l starts at one cornerback spot. 
,.............................................illllllllllllllllllllllt 
Oddsmakers favor the Irish 
How do we beat USC? Well, coaching staff came up with a any given way to obtain any 
~·~ 1~IRISH EYE
the situation reminds me of the defense which throttled O.J ., given result. Jones has com­Geometry problems I used to therefore it is logical (I think) to pleted only 45% of his passed solve back in high school. We assume that they can do the and has minus yards rushing for 
~·:.::­

By Mike Pavlin, sports editor
have a certain set of "givens" same thing to Davis, especially the season. This shows either since Mike McCoy is still around. that he is a poor scrambler or
and some theorems to combat ........................................................,............ 
them into the desired result. Given: Jimmy Jones-This that his offensive line is weak. Given: Clarence Davis-He sophomore has blood pressure Given: The USC defense­
Big one in the backyard
isn't quite as big or as fast as that is inversely proportional to · There are familiar names in this 
O.J. Simpson, but he gains just the tension of the situation. He group: Sandy Durko of inter­For me, last week was an excellent one. I had a point spread as much yardage. After four coolly directed the last minute ception fame, Tyrone Hudson, percentage of .400 and even managed to pick three games games, he has amassed 658 yards drive which beat Stanford last Jum Gunn (A second-team All­(Texas-Oklahoma, Indiana-Minnesota, and Missouri-Nebraska) on the in 116 carries (second in the week. Jones has thrown seven America), and Tody Smith nose. This week the biggest game is right in our own backyard.
nation) which proves he is just as TO passes adn has gained an (Bubba's "little" brother at 6-5). 
Notre Dame over Southern California--by I 0. For my reasons read 
durable as was O.J. He has three excellent IS .5 yards per com­The defensive unit has held my preview article. 
touchdowns and a 73-yard run pletion. Incidentally, he hails opponants to a mere 372 yards Alabama over Tennesse-by 6. Upsets always get the Bear mad,to his credit. from Wilmington, Delaware. on the ground, have intercepted and an upset by Vanderbilt is unspeakable. Watch the Crimson Tide Step one: Use the O.J. Corol­Step two: Use the Theorem of 
seven passes, allowed only a 41% come back.lary-Namely, that in the past Statistics-To wit, any given set 
pass completion mark against Pitt over Tulane-by 6. BREAK UP THE PANTHERS! 
(last game last year), the ND of statistics can be interpreted them, only a 2.5 punt return Kansas over Nebraska-by I. Stung by arch-rival K-State, Pepper average, and only 9. 7 yards per Rodgers moves for an upset of his own. completion. MSU over Michigan-by 3. Duffy is due for a win and this one is in
Saturday's line -ups 
Step Three: Hit them with the East Lansing. NOTRE DAME OFFENSE USC OFFENSE Theismann Expansion Theorem-­Delaware over West Chester-by 21. Still ranked number eight, the Which says once an offense gets Blue Hens should have no trouble in this one. '
Pos. No. Player Pos. No. Player
I untracked, it tends to retain its Auburn over Georgia Tech-by I 7.
SE 44 Tom Ga~ewood LE 86 Gerry Mullins 
momentum and even add to it. Texas Tech over Mississippi State-by 7.
LT 61 Jim Reilly LT 75 John Vella 
Joe Theismann and his partner SMU over Rice-by 14. LG 56 Larry DiNardo LG 64 Fred Khasigian Tom Gatewood are in range of a TCU over Texas A & M-by I 0. C 54 Mike Ori,ard c 56 Bill Redding flock of records. The offense has Wyoming over BYU-by 14. RG 62 Gary Kos RG 68 Steve Lehmer improved steadily all year as the UCLA over California-by I 0. 
young offensive line meshes. Utah over New Mexico--by 13.
RT 64 Terry Brennan RT 77 Sid Smith 
One thing to look for tomorrow: Air Force over Oregon-by I 7.
TE 80 Dewey Poskon RE 18 Sam Dickerson 
double coverage on Gatewood Oregon State over Washington-by 20. QB 7 Joe Theismann QB 8 Jim Jones and . subsequently a lot less Stanford over Washington State-by 14. LHB 32 Ed Ziegler FLA 12 Gary Orcutt coverage on Dewey Poskon and Utah State over Army-by 10. RHB 22 Denny Allan TB 28 Clarence Davis the backs. Oklahoma over Colorado-by 10. 
These are the main proof Kansas State over Iowa State-by 14.
FB 33 Bill Barz FB 33 Charlie Evans 
steps. There are others: USC's Indiana over Illinois-by 17. 
defense has allowed 938 yards Purdue over Iowa-by 17. NOTRE DAME DEFENSE USC DEFENSE passing this year; Cal has lost Ohio State over Minnesota-by 30. Pos. No. Player Pos. No. Player more fumbles and has been Northwestern over Wisconsin-by 6. LE 85 Walt Patulski LE 34 Charlie Weaver penalized more yards than their Rutgers over Navy-by 10. LT 77 Mike McCoy LT 72 AI Cowlings opponants. On the other hand, Penn State mrer Syracuse-by 14. 
Jones has a fine corps of LAST WEEK: Winners, Won 20 Lost 5 .800
RT 72 Mike Kadish MG 71 William Scott 
receivers headed by Sam Dick­Point Spreads, Won I 0 Lost 15 .400
RE 93 Fred Swendson RT 93 Tody Smith 
erson (I 0 catches for 208 yards) SEASON: Winners, Won 73 Lost 28 .723 LOLB 42 Tim Kellv RE 83 Jim Gunn and the kicking game is sound. Point Spreads, Won 38 Lost 63 .376 LILB 24 Larry Schumacher RLB 51 Bob Jensen This can be balanced by the 
RILB 36 Bob Olson LLB 53 Greg Slough improving performance of the NO defensive backfield, especial­
ROLB 41 John Raterman LC 16 Sandy Durko 
ly the play of Ralph Stepaniak. 
LHB 46 John Gassner LS 46 Gerry Shaw 
Step Four: Play the garr. 1t
RHB 21 Ralph Stepaniak RS 14 Walt Failor 
Notre Dame Stadium. It helps.SA 23 Clarence Ellis RC 43 Tyrone Hudson Q.E.D. 



