
THE WORLD TODAY 
Paris Talks Remain Deadlocked 
PARIS (UPI) -North Vietnam dashed American hopes yesterday 
that it might still be willing to accept allied proposals aimed at 
breaking the deadlock over the Paris talks. 
A North Vietnamese spokesman rejected a U.S. suggestion that 
the Communists reconsider seating and speaking arrangements 
proposed by the allies. . . , 
"All these arrangements aim at makmg the conference two-sided, 
the spokesman said. "This is unacceptable to us." 
U.S. deputy delegation leader Cyrus Vance appealed to the North Vietnamese to reconsider the proposals Tuesday aftet South Vietnam had refused to make further concessions to the Communists. 
Yesterday's restatement of Hanoi's position cast gloom over the 
chances of reopening the talks soon. The conference was to open 
Nov.6. 
There was no significant diplomatic activity among the four 
delegations during the day. 
Low level working sessions were held between the American and 
South Vietnam delegations but they were understood to have 
involved only a review of past strategy. 
Though a new bargaining session between Vance and North 
Vietnam's Col. Ha Van Lau had been forecast for "early this week," 
both sides said no arrangements have been made for it yet. 
There were widespread reports here of a major split in South 
Vietnam over conference strategy. 
French radio reported that the Saigon delegation coordinator, 
Vice President Nguyen Cao Ky, had said he and his delegation were 
prepared to meet around any shaped table. 
South Vietnamese President Nguyen Van Thieu, often at odds with Ky, Tuesday restated Saigon's opposition to further concessions to Hanoi, especially on the issue of a table. 

Johnson Budget Retains Surtax 
WASHINGTON (UPI) President Johnson expressed concern 
yesterday over the latest rise in the prime interest rate, which 
doubtless will provide a strong argument for retaining the I 0 per 
cent income surtax. 
The White House, reporting his reaction, said Johnson's concern 
"will be reflected in the budget" for the 12 months starting July I, 
when the surcharge is scheduled under law to exoirP 
Johnson hopes his final budget, which President-elect Richard M. 
Nixon will inherit Jan. 20, will "combat intlation and ease pressures 
on the market," said press spokesman Tom Johnson. 
The White House went no further, saying no final decisions had 
been made. Administration budget drafters agreed, but said the 
President was leaning increasingly to the idea of proposing an 
extension of the full I 0 per cent surtax at least through calendar 
1969. 
Knowledgeable congressional sources said Johnson would almost 
have to keep the surtax if he has any chance of realizing his hopes of 
submitting a new budget with a small surplus. 


5.9 Commies for Every ''Allied Death" 

SAIGON (UPI) -The South Vietnamese army ~uffered ~ore combat deaths in 1968 in the Vietnam War than d1d the Umted States, Saigon government reports said yesterday. . 
According to the reports, as yet unpublish~d but made available to United Press International, 17,486 South V 1etnamese troops were killed and 57,718 suffered wounds last year. American forces last year suffered 2,800 less combat deaths. But 

U.S. battle wounds totaled 92,000 men. The South Vietnamese reports said 191,387 Communists were killed arid 21,050 were captured in 1968. 
South Vietnamese sources also said that last year the kill ratio-one military yardstick on the war's progress-showed a I :5.9 figure for 1968, compared to 1965's 1:2.9. It meant that in 1968 
5.9 Communists were killed for every allied battle death. 
The government figures tended to support frequent statements by President Nguyen Van Thieu and other Saigon leaders that the time is coming-they give no dates-when the major burden of allied combat will shift from American to South Vietnamese shoulders. 


Smrkovsky Refuses Strike Support 
PRAGUE tUPl)-Reformer Josef Smrkovsky yesterday moved to block a strike by 900,000 union supporters trying to keep him as a top leader. He told them he endorses the man the party named to replace him as president of parliament. 
"I personally am raising my hand for a Slovak in the post of president of the National Assembly because any other solution will lead to disruptions between our Czech-Siovak nations and I shall never connect my name with such a thing," he said. 
Smrkovsky, whose zeal for reform earned him black marks from the Soviet occupation forces, made the remarks to a meeting of Czech metal workers union leaders whose followers had vowed to strike to keep Smrkovsky in the parliamentary post. 
THE OBSERVER Serving the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Community  
VOL. Ill, No. 66 THURSDAY, JANUARY 9,1969  

HUNTER-DAVEY BILL TUESDAY 



Union Is Challenged 
Hall senators Richard Hunter (Breen-Phillips) and Ed Davey (Farley) announced yesterday that they plan to introduce before the next Student Senate meeting a comprehensive bill designed to amend the Student Government Constitution. 
The amendment, which deals with the sections of the Constitution relating to the powers and duties of the Student Union and its President, is designed to subordinate the role of Union President to that of the Student Body President and also to abolish the current Union Board of Directr.r~. The Union Board is composed of: the Student Body President, the Student Body Vice-President, the Chairman of the Hall Presidents' Council, the Student Union President, Father MacCarragher (Vice-President of Student Affairs), the Student Body Treasurer, and one Faculty member. 
The primary purpose of the bill, according to co-author Hunter, is to insure that all policy decisions affecting the Student Union shall be made by the Student Body President with the consent of the Senate. This includes changing the name of the Student Union President to Student Union Director, replacing the Union Board of Directors with a permanent finance .;ommittee, requiring that the Union submit a budget semi-annually instead of annually. 
"On Tuesday we will have only the fust reading of the bill," said Davey, "and during the following meeting there will be an open debate. We expect considerable oppositi~." 
Davey also said that the rationale behind the proposal was that the Constitution never intended the Union to be a "co-equal of Student Government but it is really only a part, a very important part, of the overall Student Government structure." 
"Consequently," said Davey, the name 'Student Union President' is a misnomer which implies his equality with the 
S.B.P. whereas the only duly elected student body leader is the Student Body President." 

Riots At SFSC And 
WALTHAM, Mass. (UPI)-Negro 
students took control of a Bran­
deis University building inclu­
ding the central telephone 
switch board yesterday after 
accusing the college of welching 
on demands made following the 
assassination of Dr. Martin 
Luther King. 

The blacks took over Syde­
man Hall in the early afternoon 
and refused to allow calls to go 
through the switchboard. They 
ejected all whites from the 
building permitting only news 
men to enter. 
There are about 150 Negro 
students on the campus out of 
an enrollment of about 1,800 
undergraduates. The blacks 
reportedly were trying to get all 
the Negro students in the 
building. 

The I4 demands made 
following King's assassination 
dealt with getting more blacks 
on the faculty, raising the black 
enrollment to I 0 per cent, 
establishing an African studies 
major, and establishing a series 
of scholarships. 
Meanwhile, club-wielding police drove a wedge through a picket line of screaming student strikers yesterday at San Francisco State College. 
At least four persons were arrested and two injured. 
The melee erupted when some 200 dissidents refused police demands to open a corridor through a picket line of more than I ,000 students and union teachers at the campus' main entrance. Pickets threw rocks at police during the outburst. 
The 200 police moved swiftly against the strikers after dispersal orders twice were nearly drowned by taunts of "on strike, shut it down," and "kill the pigs." When the militants attempted to regroup across the street, 16 horse troopers forced them from the area. 
Among the injured was a television n~wsman who was struck during the barrage of rocks, bottles and boards. Blood streamed from his forehead as volunteer medical corps provided emergency treatment. 
At the height of the violence, a student was struck by a streetcar. He was taken away by an ambulance. 
The violence broke out as the striking teachers spread their walkout to another school and threatened to involve others. Gov. Ronald Reagan moved to cut off their salaries. 
At San Jose, 60 miles away, a professor was hit with a cherry bomb as union teachers began picketing the state college there for the first time in sympathy with the San Francisco crisis. 
Davey said that the Union has developed the image of being a separate entity than Student Government "and we wanted to insure that it remain a part of Student Government in the hands of the Senate and the 
S.B.P. so that any loss of money by the Union will be answerable to the Senate and the S.B.P., since this is the source of their funds." 
Regarding the bill itself, Hunter said: "This was in no way prompted by the feud between Mr. Rossie and Mr. Rembusch, if indeed such a feud exists; our primary motive in presenting this amendment to the Senate is to rectify an error in the Constitution before February 1 so that it cannot perpetuate itself in the years to come." 
Student Body President Richard Rossie, attending the funeral of his grandmother in Mississippi, was unavailable for comment. Student Union President Rick Rembusch said of the proposed bill: "we feel that the changes are not in the best interests of the student body." 

Brandeis 
The governor, reiterating his vow to keep the colleges open, warned the American Federation of Teachers "there will be no pay for unauthorized absences." When asked ·by newsmen if he foresaw a solution to the crisis, Reagan replied: 
"The only solution you have...is either fight or surrender and when you surrender they have taken over. This is the day of the ultimatum. The nillitants have delivered the ultimatum at knifepoint, at firebomb point." 
As AFT members picketed for the third day at the 18,000 student San Francisco campus, similar action was started at San Jose, which has 23,000 students. The union represents about 300 of the I ,300 faculty members at each campus. 
The AFT has demanded "meaningful negotiations" with trustees on the student crisis at San Francisco and improved salary and working conditions for the faculty. The Black Students Union and Third World Liberation Front, a coalition of non-black minorities, have been on strike at San Francisco since November over demands involving a black studies program, racism and minority enrollments. 
PAGE 2 

THURSDAY, JANUARY 9, 1969
THE OBSERVER 
.llllllllJIIIIIliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiTIIIIIIIIII~
..
-
•-
-
-
-
-
•
..
•
•
..

-•. ..•
-
•
-
•!!! 1 suppose any major city in· the 
Western world is a pretty gay place just before Christmas. Stockholm', ·Sweden, is no exception. The stores are jammed, people laugh as they make their way through the streets, and the huge 
churches are for a change reasonably fulL However, what if you don't live in a place? What if you are a foreigner 6,000 miles from home? 
As I interviewed the American 
deserters gathered in the dark office four 
days before Christmas I wondered for a 
while what the holidays would be like for 
them. The interview came to a 
conclusion, but the discussion continued 
and grew more.interesting. However, even 
in this holiday season, Rod Huth and Ray 
Krzeminski at no time displayed or gave 
signs of the deep loneliness and internal 
conflict stressed in most accounts of the 
deserters in Sweden. 
I was doing nothing that evening, so Krzeminski offered to fix me up with a Swedish girl, explaining in the presence of 
nice but they're so goddamned dumb!" Maryann, who has an excellent command of English, smiled, but as if nothing were that funny. 
We chose to see the hottest thing playing in Stockholm at the time, that great celebration of American suburbia, The Graduate. Ajourning afterwards to a small nightclub near the Stockholm waterfront we talked for more than four hours about America, Sweden, Vietnam, and life in generaL _ 
I discovered many things.. Ray Krzeminski has been in Sweden three months. He receives an allowance of 50 Swedish crowns a week (a little more 
•

The Scene 1n Sweden 
By Joel Connelly 
than ten dollars) from the government as subsistence pay until he can get a job. He lives in a small apartment in Huningatan, a suburb of Stockholm. As diversion he has Maryann, a political science student at the University of Stockholm. Also, the American Deserters Committee itself is an extremely active outfit to be associated with, its spokesmen speaking on cawpuses throughout Sweden and the group itself publishing a magazine and newsletter. 
Life in Sweden, if we are to use Ray as an example, is certainly not an agonizing 
exile  but  not  a  ball  either!  It is  not  
difficult  to  simply  exist.  Jobs  and  
apartments  are  hard  to  come  by,  but  

these factors are offset by the great support of the people of Sweden. 
In a land where the young are not subject to the restriction and disapproval one finds in American society the Swedish university students have taken the side of the deserters. While U.S. News and World Report in an article a year 


his own Maryann that "Swedish girls are .ago cattily commented "Swedish girls 
are finding the deserters less than irrestistible," I for one can testify to the opposite effect. Student support has brought a goodly number of Maryanns for fun and games plus moral and emotional support. The office of the American Deserters Committee in Stockholm is co-ed to the point where eight girls (as well as the author) had to be put out temporarily when ADC members held a meeting one afternoon. 
Swedi~h support, of course, is not restricted to the girls of Stockholm. Polls have shown 80 per cent of the Swedish people to be in opposition to the U.S. Vietnam policies. Education Minister Olaf 
Tomorrow 

Palme, rumored to be the next Swedish prime minister, marched beside the North Vietnamese ambassador to Moscow in a peace parade last year. On my first day in 
Stockholm  a  torchlight  procession  of  
more  than  3000  marched  through  the  
downtown  area  in  a  demonstration  of  

solidarity with the National Liberation Front. Thus it is that Swedish political feelings plus the humanitarian tradiditions of the nation have inspired great moral and material aid to the deserters. As the number increase (six more servicemen asked for asylum while I was there), so does the Swedish support. Many deserters have stayed with Swedish families until getting settled themselves. A generous donor has given the American Deserters Committee a 43 acre farm north of Stockholm, thus helping solve problems of housing and aiding in the ADC becoming a self-sufficient community. While I was in Stockholm a Swedish peace group holding a pre-Christmas party took the opportunity to invite the deserters en masse. 
The Swedish government, naturally, has been a good deal more subdued in its welcome to the deserters. For one thing, the U.S. goverment is none too pleased by the exodus of servicemen. Then too, the American Deserters Committee is certainly not a quiescent group. However, the government of Sweden, under pressure from newspapers and student groups among others, does extend some welcome. The deserters get an allowance and become b.eneficiaries of the Swedish welfare state as soon as they receive residence permits. They can learn the language free and obtain other educational benefits. 
.
-
. 
..­
. 
. 
..-• 
.
. 
.
.
.
•
•
• 

While as we talked at the nightclub these many details of conditions in Sweden became clearer and clearer, a factor of mood also entered the picture. The nightclub itself had hardly a person under 30, except perhaps a muscular female waitress who evidently kept law and order in the place. The streets outside, as we walked to and from our destinations on the frosty night, were almost totally populated by the young. Then too, almost everybody seemed to have either long hair or a beard. Clearly Sweden is an open society, one lacking prejudice, a place where young people do not face the choice of conformity or condemantion. 
As I looked aroung in the nightclub I thought more and more that for Ray Krzeminski and others desertion is not an excape to a lonely and unfriendly land but rather a liberation from the petty tyranny of the militray into an open society in which nobody calls anybody else a communist or a traitor. I put it to Ray and he replied "You're right! You don't see discrimination here, or race prejudice.. You do not see George Wallaces. Sweden is not waging war on anybody. You are free from so much that is wrong about the United States." 
Maybe Ray Krzeminski is right, but at the very least he has found a place where the people will support him in the course of action he has chosen. He most certainly has problems and doubts. By all but Notre Dame dorm standards his life is tough. However, Maryann is with him and, come to think of it, this may be more important than having God on your side! 
the final installment on the Committee among other things puts out a 
American deserters examines the activities of the magazine and newspaper as well as doing radio

Acapulco For £aster 
American Deserters Committeein Stockholm. The broadcasts encouraging desertion. 
-Round trip air fare from South Bend 

!HELD OVER 3RDWEEK 
-Eight days and nights in the brand new DeGante Hotel on LaCondesa Beach 
Open Daily 6:45 Sunday 12:45
-Services ofa tour guide and information service 
~ 
-Bull fights, water skiing, skin diving, golf. tennis, Jai Lai, etc. 
-Low, low Mexican prices 

$25 deposit Sign-ups on Wed., Jan. 15 $245 total 6:30 in the Coke Bar. 

Plus "ROWAN &MARTIN AT THE MOVIES" 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
We Make Application & Passport 
Photos Bagby Studio 110 W. Colfax Phone 234-8941 



Young Men $2.00 per hour



IT'S TIME!! 
To work in verification department. Evenings: 5-8:30. No experience necessary. Must be neat and able to follow instructions. 
Car required. For interview call Mr. lark. 233-8011.

IF YOU WANT TO TEACH A FREE UNIVERSITY 
Get your mother's Red Garter And your Father's Mustache


COURSE 
Ready for the

SEND YOUR NAME AND A RESUME 
Chi Club and Jr. Class c/o STUDENT GOVERNMENT to: RICK LIBOWITZ 
this Fri., Jan. 10 from 8:30-12:30

FREE U.: AN UNEQUAL OPPORTUNITY 
r.1ishawaka C-C. 

I I f
.._ 
---------------------------------------------------~ 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 9, 1969 
PAGE 3 

THE OBSERVER 


Mr. Galvin: 


"If I werr starting life over again, I am inclined to 
think that I would go into the advertising business in preferrnce to almost any other. This is because advertising has come to cover the whole range of 
human needs and also hecause it combines real 
imagination with a deep study of human psychology. 
Because it brin~ to the greatest number of people actual knowledge concerning useful things, it is 
essentially a form of education ... lt has risen with ever-growing rapidity to the dignity of an art. It is constantly paving new paths ... The general raising of 
the standards of modern ci\'ili1.ation among all groups of people during the past half century would have been impossible without the spreading of the knowl­edge of higher standards by means of ad\'ertising:' 

Dear Mr. Galvin: 
One mysterious aspect of business today 
is the mind-bending talent of the 
advertising agency. Increased advertising 
sophistication and an indefatigable quest 
for originality have produced campaigns 
which subordinate the client's 
chance of future profits. 
Advertising theorists maintain if the campaign is creative, the product will automatically sell. Thus, ads today shock rather than sell, stimulate emotions rather than discuss the product. What is selling merchandise t,oday is not the advantages of the product but the ingenuity of the ad. 
The omnipresence of television has replaced other media in importance. Thus, TV commercials have to be more exciting than the programming; commercial breaks cannot bore the viewer. Consequently, heavily advertised products have developed distinct personalities: the Volkswagen, the Lay Potato Chip, the Coca Cola ads all have distinguishable characteristics. Alka-Seltzer's introspective conversations between a man and his stomach, Excedrin's documental analyses of the headache and Goodyear's tire for the woman with no man around are advertising marvels. But is selling the product the ultimate purpose, or is that purpose proving the ad-man's creative genius? 
Thus the question: are today's ad campaigns designed to shock a media-controlled public into buying or to prove the creative splendor of the advertising business? I contend business is being trampled upon by the ad agencies' quest for creativity; and, therefore, if the product does sell it is strictly accidental. 
Since•ely:4Mt) j?~ 
Arnold Shelby 
Latin American Studies, Tulane 
WHO CARES ABOUT STUDENT OPINION?
,.
BUSINESSMEN DO. 
Three chief executive officers-The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company's Chairman, Russell DeYoung. The Dow Chemical Company's President, 
H. D. Doan, and Motorola's Chairman, Robert 
W. Galvin-are responding to serious questions and viewpoints posed by students about business and its role in our changing society ... and from their perspective as heads of major corporations are exchanging views through means of a campus Icorporate Dialogue Program on specific issues raised by leading student spokesmen. 
Here, Arnold Shelby, in Liberal Arts at Tulane, is exploring a point with Mr. Galvin. Keenly . interested in Latin American political and soc1al problems, Mr. Shelby toured various countries in the area last summer on a "shoe-string" budget. 
He plans a career in journalism. 
In the course of the entire Dialogue Program, Arthur Klebanoff, a Yale senior, will probe issues with Mr. Galvin; as will Mark Bookspan, a Chemistry major at Ohio State, and David G. Clark, in graduate studies at Stanford, with 
Mr. DeYoung; and similarly, David M. Butler, Electrical Engineering, Michigan State, and Stan Chess. Journalism, Cornell, with Mr. Doan. 
All of these Dialogues will appear in this publication, and other campus newspapers across the country, throughout this academic year. Campus comments are invited, and should be forwarded to Mr. DeYoung, Goodyear, Akron, Ohio; Mr. Doan, Dow Chemical, Midland, Michigan; or Mr. Galvin, Motorola, Franklin Park, Illinois, as appropriate. 
Dear Mr. Shelby: 
Advertising is one of th~ most often criticized and least understood professions. It is also one of the most complex, involving consumer needs and desires, market economics, tastes, semantics, the arts, persuasion, and a host of other factors. In advertising, as in many other fields, there is a constant quest for originality and creativity. Today's consumer-more sophisticated and better educated than ever before-demands it. 
Different advertising techniques are needed to sell different products. Audiences must be carefully evaluated. Advertising that sells soft drinks could not be successfully used to sell-say-heavy machinery, surgical instruments or textbooks. Effective techniques must be visually or graphically arresting-and augmented by carefully chosen language­to express the salient features of the product or service to the listening, viewing, or reading audience. A "creative" ad that merely displays ingenuity, or shocks, without presenting the product in such a manner as to persuade its purchase on the basis of merit, as well as its intangible benefits, cannot be considered really creative. 
Advertising is never an end in itself; its 
goal is to communicate knowledge so that 
the consumer may exercise his freedom of 
choice, his intelligence, and his desire to 
buy or not. However, even the most 
creative and persuasive advertising will 
not sustain sales of inferior merchandise 
for very long. 
Television has not replaced other media in importance. While the impact of television cannot be denied, use of print advertising, billboards, direct mail, and other media are at an all-time high. 
Like you, I deplore pedestrian and tasteless advertising. Likewise, I deplore "trashy" books, inferior movies, poor plays. Advertising has the complex task of appealing to all tastes, all intelligence levels. all ages, and both sexes. A person is subject daily to over 16,000 advertising messages. Many are informative, entertaining, motivating, precise, practical: many show a lack of creativity, poor taste, and over-use of gimmicks. In the final analysis. judgment is passed by each of us in our buying decisions. 
In our sensitivity to that which we may find objectionable, we should also note that the advertising business donates some $260 million dollars' worth of public service advertising each year ... Smokey the Bear, the Peace Corps, Keep America Beautiful, the Red Cross, the United Negro College Fund, Mental Health, CARE, UNICEF, Radio Free Europe, and many more worthwhile campaigns. 
From what I know of advertising firms and their people. I believe the profession offers one of the most challenging, fulfilling careers available. Keen young critics like yourself are needed to . constantly upgrade the quality of its services, and shape them to fit the precise future needs of society. This will continue to assure responsiveness to the needs expressed by the consuming public. 
Sincerely,/?_ t2 


~tel..-~ 
Robert W. Galvin Chairman, Motorola Inc. 

r 
PAGE 4 
TJlE OBSERVE~·R~_________________________r_H_u_R_so_A_v_._JA_N_u_A_R_v_9._1-96--9 
IIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I 111111111111.111111111 

At 7:30 ToniBhf 



Tlte Insb Eye N D Entertains Butler 

By Terry O'Neil, sports editor 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUI.IIIIIIIIl 
Sports Briefs 
Two pieces of trivia from the 1968 Converse Basketball Yearbook: Notre Dame was 18th in total attendance during the 1967-68 season, drawing 230,947 fans for 30 games. UCLA was tops with 407,387 patrons for 30 games. The Irish ranked eighth nati~nally in number of miles traveled throughout the season, loggmg 14,420. Houston was No. 1 in that category with 23,591 miles on the itinerary. ~ 
* * * * 
Final 1968 NCAA football statistics show the Irish with 504.4 .yards per game, second in the nation to Houston.]'-ID was fourth in 
rushing with 305.9 yards per game and fourth in scoring with 37.6 
points per contest. 
* * * * 
In case you missed it, Alabama made a big announcement over the holidays. "Bear" Bryant will have both his practice field and his game field covered with Astro-Turf before next fall. 
* * * * 
The Baltimore Sun reports that former Navy coach Bill Elias is in line for Johnny Ray's vacated post. However, no action is likely to take place before Friday when Ara Parseghian and "Moose" Krause return from Los Angeles. Ara is there for the American Football Coaches Association Convention and "Moose" for the 63rd NCAA Convention. 
* * * * 
Harry DeVoid beats everyone to the punch by selecting the top 10 college football teams of 1969 in this week's issue of The Football News. In order, they are: Ohio State, Texas, Penn State, Oklahoma, Auburn, Arkansas, NOTRE DAME, Michigan State, Southern Cal, Mississippi. Irish lineman Mike McCoy is included in DeVoid's list of All-America candidates. 
* * * * 
The Irish moved up to fifth place in the final Associated Press football poll released last week. Here's how it looked to AP and UPI voters after the first week of the season and after the last. 
UPI-first week UPI-last week AP-first week AP-Iast week 
I. IRISH Ohio State 1. Purdue Ohio State 
2. 
Purdue Southern Cal 2. IRISH Penn State 

3. 
Southern Cal Penn State 3. Southern Cal Texas 

4. 
Penn State Georgia 4. Pfnn State Southern Cal 

5. 
UCLA Texas 5. Florida IRISH 

6. 
Kansas Kansas 6. Texas Arkansas 

7. 
Alabama Tennessee 7. Alabama Kansas 

8. 
Nebraska IRISH 8. UCLA Georgia 

9. 
LSU Arkansas 9. Nebraska Missouri 

10. 
Miami (Fla.) Oklahoma 10. Houston Purdue 


* * *
* 
A testimonial dinner for ND coaching immortal has been booked Jan. 31 in the Athletic and Convocation Center. "We have heard from a great number of coach Leahy's former players, including all five of the Heisman Trophy winners---Angelo Bertelli, Johnny Lujack, Leon Hart, Johnny Lattner and Paul Hornung," reported Bob McBride, national chairman for the event. Tickets, at $20 apiece, are available by writing to the Frank Leahy testimonial, Box 211, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
* * * * 
Irish baseball coach Clarence "Jake" Kline was one of six men inducted into the Hall of Fame of the American Association of College Baseball Coaches earlier this week. 
* * * * 
Kudos are in order for basketball manager Mike Busby who recently received The Golden Corn Cob Award, a highly sought civic honor in his hometown, Watseka~ Ill. 
* * * * 
George Kunz was among 33 college football players awarded 
$"1 ,000 post-graduate scholarships by the NCAA, Dec. 26. 
Candidates were required to have a 3.0 average and to indicate 
their intention of beginning graduate studies as soon as possible. 
Top grade is a 3.96 in mechanical engineering by Bob Nicodemus, an outstanding fullback at University of Missouri, Rolla Campus. Not far behind is a 3.95 in pre-med by Iowa's Scott Miller, who started every game in 1966 and '67, but succumbed to injuries last fall. 
Here are other scholarship winners you should recognize: Ohio State tackle Dave Foley (3.15 in industrial engineering), Mississippi halfback Steve Hindman (3.65 in biology), Alabama halfback Donnie Sutton (3.2 in chemistry), Michigan State halfback AI Brenner (3.65 in political science), Oregon State fullback Bill "Earthquake" Enyart (3.33 in economics), Texas A&M quarterback Edd Hargett (3.02 in electrical engineering), Southern Cal quarterback Steve Sogge (3.16 in business administration), Georgia end Billy Payne (3.76 in political science). 
Kunz carries a 3.4 in communication arts, very close to the 3.41 average of all 33 athlete-scholars. 
The venerable Paul D. "Tony" Hinkle leads his Butler Bulldogs to the Convocation Center tonight for a 7:30 clash with the surging Fighting Irish. Hinkle, in his 40th season at Butler, goes into the 83rd meeting of the intra-state rivals sporting a deceptive 2-8 record. 
Notre Dame (8-2) will be the 
sixth nationally ranked team to 
face the Bulldogs, who have 
already posted an 81-80 
overtime victory over New 
Mexico, then ranked No. 7, and 
a 67-65 victory over 18th 
ranked Western Kentucky. In 
between, however, Butler has 
suffered lopsided thrashings at 
the hands of Illinois, Purdue and 
Michigan. 

The Bulldogs feature a 
balanced scoring attack paced by 
5-8 Junior Steve Norris who is 
scoring at a 14.8 clip. Senior 
6-5 center Clarence Harper, the 
only returnee from last year's 
starting five, is throwing in 12.9 

Cage Polls 
AP 

I. UCLA (50) 9-0 1000 2. North Carolina 9-1 722 3. Santa Clara 12-0 665 4. Illinois 10-0 651 5. Kansas 12-1 613 6. Davidson 8-1 512 7. Kentucky 7-2 491 
8. St. John's, N.Y. 8-2 418 9. Villanova 8-1 343 
10. New Mexico State 11-0 322 11 . LaSalle 9-1 160 12. Northwestern 9-1 135 13. Detroit I 0-2 101 14. Louisville 9-1 98 15. Duquesne 9-1 95 16. Ohio State 7-2 86 17. Notre Dame 7-2 64 18. Drake 10-1 53 19. Cincinnati 7-3 36 20. Marquette 8-2 27 
I. UCLA (35) 9-0 350 2. North Carolina 8-1 249 3. Santa Clara 12-0 20 1 4. Davidson 7-1 199 5. Illinois 10-0 185 6. Kansas 12-1 175 7. Kentucky 7-2 133 
8. St. John's N.Y. 9-2 109 9. Villanova 7-1 69 I 0. New Mexico State 11-0 60 11. New Mexico 10-3 31 12.NotreDame 7-2 27 13. Purdue 8-3 16 I 4. Duquesne 9-1 15 15. Columbia 9-1 14 16. Louisville 9-1 12 
17. Drake 10-1 II 18. Tulsa 10-2 10 19. tie, Northwestern 9-1 9 19. Detroit 10-2 9 
Sports Card 

THURSDAY Hockey: ND vs. Ohio U., 4 p.m. Basketball: ND vs. Butler, 7:30 
p.m. 
FRIDAY Hockey: ND vs. Ohio U., 7:30 p.m. SATURDAY Frosh Basketball: ND vs. DePaul, 12:30 p.m. Basketball: ND vs. DePaul, 2:30p.m. Hockey: ND vs. Detroit, 7:30 p.m. 

points a game and leading the team in rebounding, snagging 6.8 a game. Jerry Hoyt, a 6-4 forward, adds an 11.4 average, while 6-1 Scott Neat (10.5 avg.) and 6-2 Bob Schroeder (9.4 avg.) round out the Bulldog scoring punch .. 
The Butler attack will show a patterned attack of rolls, picks, and blocks. Originally designed by Coach Hinkle years ago, this offense has been copied by coaches throughout the country and is proudly advertised in Indianapolis as the "Hinkle System" of basketball. 
On defense look for a tight man to man. Butler will undoubtedly count on heavy checking and aggressive boardwork to make up for a decided height advantage by the Irish. If they do not fall behind early they will revert to their standard deliberate attack. 
Last' year it was Bob Whitmore and Bob Arnzen who overpowered the Bulldogs in the Old Fieldhouse, collecting 40 and 27 points respectively. Arnzen sho uld be ready for a good night coming off a 12-15 shooting exhibition against Fordham. 
Aside from Whitmore and Arnzen Johnny Dee's starting lineup is still uncertain. In any case, expect a lot of inside work by the big men. Dee wasn't pleased with his guards' failure to get the ball to Pleick and Catlett against Fordham on Monday. 

When the rest of the Irish squad huddles around Coach Johnny Dee tonight, top scorer Austin Carr will remain seated. He is sidelined with a broken bone in his left foot. 

10-Game Cage Sfafs 

PLAYER G 
Austin Carr 8 Bob Whitmore 10 Bob Arnzen 7 Collis Jones 10 
Sid Catlett 10 John Pleick 10 
Tom Sinnott 10 Dwight Murphy 9 Mike O'Connell 10 Jim Hinga 10 Jim Derrig 2 John Gallagher 7 Dan Quinn 7 Jack MCJet>an 2 Jay Ziznewski 1 
FG  PCT.  FT  PCT.  REB  AVG  TP  AVG  
164-78  .476  40 30 .750  37  4.6  186  23.3  
150-74  .493  42 28 .666  103  10.3  176  17.6  
91-44  .483  30 22 .733  81  11.6  110  15.7  
77-29  .389  22 15 .682  66  6.6  73  7.3  
85-31  .365  20 8  .400  82  8.2  70  7.0  
35-19  .543  17 12 .750  34  3.4  50  5.0  
42-19  .452  14 11 .586  24  2.4  49  4.9  
40·20  .500  8  7  .875  13  1.4  47  5.2  
1.6·7  .304  35 29 .828  10  1.0  43  4.3  
16-7  .438  14 8  .571  8  0.8  22  2.2  
7-1  .143  4  3  .750  4  2.0  5  2.5  
3-1  .333  2  2 1.000  4  0.6  4  0.6  
4-2  .500  1  0  .000  3  0.4  4  0.6  
0·0  .000  2  2 1.000  0  0.0  2  1.0  
0-0  .000  0  0  .000  1  1.0  0  0.0  





