

VOL. Ill, NO. 118 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Cotlexe ('ommunity MONOAY, APRIL 21, 1969 
White Racism Conference week premieres 
•
Zahn:violence not 1n acccord with the Gospel 
Michelson: to resist the i 'ROTC should be set as 
''Stress academic excellence:'' ROTC By Ted Price this year, (amid speculation that its cancellation adion, it has caused grave concern and moderate11 pproxomately 300 protestors staged a sit-in on was due at least partially to fear of a repe~t of last reaction on the part of detachment personnel.the field of the annual ROTC Presidential Review year's mcident,) the debate over ROTC training In a statement released last Friday, Capt. Loiusyesterday while nearly 200 others picketed at the here and on many other campuses h~s grown in its J. Papas, Professor of Naval Science, said, "Having edge of the parade ground. While the sit-in failed intensity, at times with violent results. Several neither taken nor audited any courses offered byto halt the ceremony, it did force the cadets to major colleges and universities have revoked aca­the Navy, these critics are unpualified, I believe, tomarch some 50 yards away from the reviewing demic credit for ROTC while many others which judge either the quality of instruction or the stand. The Observer, May 8, 1968 do not currently have such programs have applied program's academic excellence. Almost a year has passed since that warm spttH~; to the Department of Defense to bring ROTC to First in a three part series day when 1200 ROTC cadets and midshipmen them. faced the largest group of protestors assembled in The Academic Council of the College of Arts the history of this University. Fortunately, tension and Letters is currently investigating the ROTC The statement later adds, "There is a standing was the major product of that afte:·noon, probably program here with a mind to possibly recom­invitation for anyone to audit the NROTC courses. disappointing a great number on both sides who mending to the Faculty Senate that it discredit all We would welcome the attendance of any faculty were perhaps hoping for a more violent show-courses offered by the three detachments. Al­member or student who has questioned the quality though opponents of such a move are confidentdown. ' of the Navy curriculum, with the firm conviction Although there will be no Presidential Review that they have the necessary votes to defeat the that their doubts will be quickly dispelled." Both the Army and Air Force detachments have echoed Capt. Papas' invitation. All three detach­Results of questionnaires circulated among Army and Navy• ROTC students. Data represents the response of 213 of ments feel rather confident in light of recent 267 upperclass Army cadets and 200 of total enrollment of 225 in the Navy. student polls which indicate strong cadet endorse­ment of the quality of the curricula. (See Box) Senior Steve Emory, Commander of the AirBelow Average Average Above Average Force cadet wing ,md a major in InternationalPercer.tage of :!tudents responding: Relations, commented on the type of curriculumInstructor's knowledge % 6 25 45 74% 49 he has studied during four years in the AFROTCof course material program: "The first three years of the program consistInstructor's teaching ability 4 4 62 49 34 47 primarily of top);s of current events and inter­national relations. During this time I heard a lot of Instructor's interest in student 3% 4 42% 30 54 66 the same things here as I heard in my major problems and progress studies. As a mafter of fact, the sophomore and junior year courses closely parallel tile course Dr. Time required for class preparation 33% 15 60 60 6% 25 Bogle taught on Military Strategy in the Nuclear Age. Senior year, we concentrate rather heavily onCourse difficulty 17 20 7G 70 5 10 management and leadership, and I understandlthat again here the courses often correspond to ones Army figures in bold face offered by the Business School." *Figures for Air Force poll are not fully compih)d at this time. All three services have found such similarities and arc studying methods of substituting such continued on fXlgl' 3  

revolution is to resist humanistic virtues 
By John Simone The Conference on White Racism opened last night in the Student Center. In the panel discussion were speakers: University President Fr. llesburgh, William Turner, a 
black  sociaology  major,  
preofeesor  Michelson  of  the  
English  dept.,  Prof.  Bernard  

Norling of the II istory dept., and Arthur McFarland, president of the Afro-American Society. 
Professor l\1ichelson commented on the revolution that is taking place in America. lie said, "the elements on revolution articulate thamselves by looking back in history, on one side is the white European and on the other side is the minorities, black, yellow.. or other, brought here to this continent to serve the white man." 
II c also stated that the revolution is a humanistic revolution, and he said that "to resist the revolution is to resist humanistic virtue and the simple facts stated in the Declaration of Independence and the constitution." 
"The white humanist no 
longer gives the Black 
anything!" he declared, namely 
the "gift of Civil Rights." He 
also said that "what we must do 
is to prepare a climate for the 
Black revolution to find its 
way." 
Arthur McFarland, president of the Afro-American Society said that racism is ingrained in institutions that try to protect the status quo. He stated that "the effort to assimilate the blacks into society dehumanizes the blacks. "Integration", he said, "has failed." 
McFarland termed integration as a white scheme to seduce the blacks into giving up their identities. "Instead of the shingaling and the boogaloo, we had to waltz to be cultured." lie added, "The days of the showcase coon are over." 
William Turner, a black sociology student said, "on 


extracurricular activity just like a cycle club' 
By Dave Lammers Gordon Zahn, Christian pacifist and University of Massachusetts sociologist, last night called for the Catholic 
Church and all Christians to
· Review was the scene of a 

realize the "fundamental
major sit-in to protest the 

principle that violence is not in 
presence of ROTC on 

accord with the Gospel."camplls. A three part series 
Zahn asked tor "a break with on this issue begins today, 
the Catholic commitment to war through the ROTC program."
below. 

1-----------------l-Zahn contended that ROTC 
racism, there is an attempt ot d esig nate and differentiate between white racism and black racism. I personally consider this differentiation absurd." 
Fr. Hesburgh's policy on student demonstrations came under attack. Turner stated, "If we are to be the ones who are to apply pressure to those in administrative positions as you say, how can we do this if we have IS minutes to meditate?" Fr. llesburgh replied, "I think that something must be wrong at Notre Dame if we have to do that to get things done." 

trains its members to become "human instruments of war, technicians and disciples of military life. This implies an expenditure of personnel which is "repugnant to Christianity." 
Zahn recommended that "ROTC should be an extracurricular activity just like a motorcycle club." 
Zahn rejected the traditional Catholic belief that an individual is not competent to judge the moraltiy of a particular war, and asked that each person realize the "appropriate response to the Christian conscience," that is, 
non-violence. Zahn recommended that each Catholic boy "should be counseled by his parents and pastor to accept the conscientious objector option as a more positive stl!ternent." In the question period Zahn stated that no war is moral and that a Christian who fought in World War II, though he could not be condemned, was wrong. "Every Christian must obey the absolute law of love regardless of the situation, and must go so far as to accept the destruction of his nation if necessary, rather than 
violate God's absolute laws." 
Zahn praised the tota'J condemnation of war by the second Vatican council, but stated that there was "silent complicity of the institutional Church to things they outwardly condemn." "The Church is entirely too caught up in the materialistic milieu. The Church must stop glorifying war and the diocesan press must stop praising the moral struggle of the boys at 
war:' 

PAGE 2 MONDAY, APRIL 21, 1969
THE OBSERVER 

N D-SMC to combin-e Theology 
By Ann Conway Sr. Maria Assunta,  chairman  To make the increased course offering possible, two St. Mary's  Theology Department as a result of losing three professors at the  THE WORLD TODAY  
of the St. Mary's Theology De- professors,  Mr.  Theodore  end of this academic year, but  
partment,  and  Fr.  James  Hengesbach  and  Mr.  Herold  with the addition of the profes- 
Burtchaell, chairman Notre Dame Theology  of the Depart- Weiss, will teach their courses at both St. Mary's and Notre  sors from Notre Dame hopes that it will be possible to build- Black Cornell students end _takeover  
ment, today announced a pro­gram of close cooperation be­tween the two departments be­ginning in the fall.  Dame, as will Fr. Robert up the St. Mary's Theology De-Nogosek, Fr. Luke Miranda, and partment again. ITHACA, N.Y. (UPI)-Armed Negro students ended their Fr. Joseph Hoffman of the D.,, k occupation of the Student Union building Sunday, then stood over Notre Dame Theology Depart-I on 0 ays Cornell University off~cials wh_o signed an amnesty agreement on the  
This offer a  close cooperation common theology  will pro­ ment. The idea behind the teach­er exchange, according to Fr.  •parJefa/S  bottom step of the Afro Amencan Student Center. Black students emerged from Willard Straight Hall and marched  
gram  allowing  the  students  to  Burtchaell,  "Is to facilitate and  across  the quadrangle to the Afro American Center. A dozen black  
take  courses  different  from  encourage  the  idea of mixture  Dillon Hall residents passed a  men armed with rifles and shotguns stationed themselves around the  
those offered on their respective  between  the  two  schools."  referendum  on  parietals  last  center  while  University  Vice  President  Steven  Muller  and  Vice  
campuses.  Six  sophomore  Sr.  Maria  Assunta  stressed  Thursday night.  Dillon  was  the  Provost W. Keith Kennedy signed a seven part agreement.  
courses will be offered, three at  however that "this closer coop- last hall to accept parietal hours  They agreed to defend the demonstrators in case of any civil suits,  
St.  Mary's  and  three  at  Notre  eration between the two depart- as laid down in the Hall Life Bill.  to  make  the  university  responsible  for  any  damages  to  Willard  
Dame, and seven or eight courses  ments does not mean of merger  A  previous  vote  taken  in  Straig~t  Hall during the sit in, to station a guard around the Afro  
for juniors will be offered. There  of  the  two."  Majors  will  take  sections proved to be too out of  Amencan Student Center 24 hours  a day, to grant amnesty to all  
will  also  be  a  course  given in  courses  prescribed by their res- balance  to  represent  the  true  demonstrators and to drop disciplinary proceedings begun after past  
German  and  French  for  those  pective schools, and will receive  opinion of the hall. In that vote,  demonstrations.  
students returning from Angers  their degrees from  that school.  most sections went the way their  Prague students vote to sit-in at Univ.  
and Innsbruck, who wish to take  Sister  expressed  concern  about  section  leaders  presented  their  

PRAGUE (UPI) -Students at the liberal arts school of Charles

,;ailiclioiulrsieiliiiniltiihlolsiieliliaiinigiuiagiicii'Sii.•••llitlihiielllliidiieJicriieiiaiiisJieliiinilitlhiielliiSiitil.IIMiiiarlyl'..s opinions. In Thursday,s vote 
section leaders simply took the University voted Yesterday to stage a sit in strike Monday to protest 
vote with no disscussion or the purging of Alexander Dubcek and Josef Smrkovsky, symbols of 
attempt at persuasion. Czedhoslovakia 's liberalization. Students of 54 other departments of 
I 

OFFICIAL NOTICE 

The hall constitution with the Prague universities met later yesterday with the Prague Student result of the referendum Parliament to vote on whether to join the sit in. included has. been sent to the The students will occupy university buildings--with faculty 
Any Notre Dame Student Planning to 

Hall Life Board for approval. approval----but not venture onto the street.s. One student leader said "that would be playing with fire because our police have strict
Michiana's 

orders to move against any demonstrations."
Enroll in Professional Education Courses at 
Sports Car Capitol 
The strike was expected to have little effect on the new regime of
GO HOLLYV\/000! 

Gustav Husak, who took power from Dubcek Thursday as first
St. Mary's College for the Fall Semester, 
MAINTAIN YOUR COOL 

secretary of the Communist party, other than to register student 1969-70, is Asked to Con tact the Office of 
Jaguar George is offering a free 

dissatisfaction. 
pair of sunglasses and an A SCOT 

"We have been waiting too long. We must act now," said one Teacher Preparation. This is Necessary Before 
with every sporty car (what 

student in a blue sweater and red beard. 
every sporty driver should have); 

Spectrum of opinion present at
he'll even buy your first 1,000
Registration and Enrollment IS Possible. 
miles of gas. You can't beat a 

task-of-universities sern inar
deal/ike that with a big stick.' 
Please Make This Contact By May 1. 
Thif> weP-k's poverty program 
Moderate, left and right wing Chris Wolfe emphasized the 
special: '63 Studebaker 

student opinion were importance of the university's
Eugene A. Campanale 
Hawk-great shape...$495* 
represented in Saturday's liberal education. Wolfe felt that 
see Jaguar George at
Associate Director 
concluding session of the the most important role of the 
Office of Teacher Preparation PEPPER'S l\'OTORS 

four-day seminar on "The Task university was to teach its 103 Memorial Library (foyer) 
31 OS W. Sample St. 
of Universities in a Changing students the value of reflection. World" sponsored hy Notre "It's (the university's) main Dame's Committee on role is to prepare men really for. 
283-7526 
South Bend, Ind. 
289-7788 
International Relations. .. a life of thought," said Wolfe. 
The concluding session was a Don Wycliffe, a member of round-table discussion on Notre Dame's Afro-American "Students and the Evolution of Society, also mentioned the 
*Faculty su)Jject to usual s11aft job!! 
How to take a course in anato·myco 
Higher Education" by panelists importance of the liberal Don Wycliffe, Don Hynes, education given by the
and stay awake in physics. 

Chuck Nau, Joseph Rhodes, UNiversity. He added that many Richard Rossie, and Chris Wolfe schools did not advance If you don't want to give up prescription has a stronger stimulant. 
with Professor Edward Goerner knowledge because they "turned everything physical for physics, And NoDoz is not habit forming. 
of the Government department thought off." Don Hynes stated we have something for you. So after a course in anatomy has done 
acting as chairman. that there were "no goals, no NoDoz.® The stimulating pill for something for your ego, . ·.:..,_·. 
Rhodes, Student body places to be reached in 
the unstimulating morning after. take two NoDoz and do . '~'' ' ....,">-­
president at the California education." Hynes insisted that Nothing you can buy without a something for your grades. -~~ 
Institute of Technology, it was no longer logical for summarized his remarks of a anyone to specialize in any field, speech he had made earlier at since it has become impossible the Conference. He called on the for an individual to keep up with University to provide an outlet the changes in his work and for student concern, an since machines would he doing "autonomous student center" most of the specialized work in through which students could the future. exert some effect on the "We can't talk about goals for workings of the University ourselves any longer," said around them. Hynes "In 20 years, all the 
Rhodes stated that U.S. concepts of having a goal campuses today are certainly in just won't work." a time of crisis. He cited the lack Hynes felt that the real of student abilityto effect questions of life could not be significant change within their answered by education and that community as major cause of it was absurd to try. Rather than the frustration that leads to attempting to structure people student revolt. into knowledge, he believed that 
Former Student Body Vice the form of pursuing knowledge President Chuck Nau called the should be completely free. University an ''opportunity for These individual statements soc ia I transformation." N au were followed by questions cited the need for the University among the panelists and from to become deeply involved in the audience. Most of the the current sociological questions and answers expressed questions of man. a dissatisfaction with the 
"lf the universities would V niversity and man as he thoroughly invlove themselves currently is, and a desire to (in social action), it would be restructure or change both. difficult to question them," said At one point late in the N questioning, Professor Goerner 
surprised the audience by stating 
The Observer is published daily 
during the college semester except 
that he "regretted" if he had led 
vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. 
the session in the direction it 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may 
was taking and then walked out 
be purchased for $10 from The 
of the auditorium. The reasons
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage 
for his action were not 
paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 
completely clear. 


MONDAY, APRIL 21, 1969 THE OBSERVER 
PAGE 

ROTC shoots for scholastic prowess 
mntinued from fXJKl' I 
courses for service-taught sequences. The advantages arc many and they include a broad­ening of the ROTC program, and a possible reduction of expense to the government since it will no longer have to leach them. 
The closest of the new curricula to full implementation is that of the Navy which Capt. Papas says should be in full force by next Septcm bcr. Midshipmen will be pt~rmittcd to substitute courses offered by the govern­ment and history departments for Naval Science courses. 
Currently however, the lJ niwrsily is able to exercise some control of the content of the courses as well as the instructors assigned to duty here. Col Victor Ferrari, Professor of Aerospace Studies, explained that he receives a din•ctivc of course goals from his superiors. lie and his officers I hen actually formulate lhecourses and submit them to Devere T. Plunkett, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, for approval. Plunkett, in turn, sends them with his recommendations to Rev. John 
F. Walsh, vice president for academic affairs. 
"We can't move until we gel full upproval from these men," 




Blow Yourself 
To
UPPOSTER SIZE 
2 ft.• l ft. 
S.t~d any lt.d o..d Wh... or Cotor Photo fto"' 11·•• 1 ~~.. ·to I a 10. W• will ..nd you a :ci~T~~. ft. ILO-UP ... po<lod POP-ART 
4125 

$3 so
v•lur for • 
S x 4Ft. Blo-Up $7.50 
A.U SOc 1.. potf. l h.!lq. EACH. No C.O.D. 
A4<l locol so~o. '"' Send O...k..,.-, Order Ia: 
PHOTO POSTER. lie. 210 E. 23nl St., Dr~t. M~ Nnwo!:,~~~~.;.!!_«HU 

said ·Ferrari. that credit has been given for criticism is coming from both Officers assigned as drill. In all three detachments, faculty and student quarters and instructors must also meet with d r iII ( c uphemistically called soon u decision is to be made on 
Corner of Cedar & Mishawaka 
University approval. The "Leadership laboratory" of the stat us of the program at 
Ave's. 
procedure is that the services "corps training") docs not carry Notre Dame. nominate a man they deem a n y credit , nor docs Wednesday, the other side of 
ALSO: New Suzuki Bikes
qualified to teach here. llis performance in this area have the coin. personal records, including any bearing on the class grade. .----------------L--------------1 
a cademic ·rcdentials arc forwarded c to a faculty committee for their acceptance. This committee has rejected at least two candidates in the past three years, forcing the services involved to make new nominations. The majority of the officers here have advanced degrees and those that do not arc working toward them. 
Col John Lavin, professor of military science (Army), outlined u program that his 
dctuchment has begun whereby a student committee will submit a report on the Army ROTC curriculum next month. 
"I don't know whut they'll come up with, " he said, "but 
All three services stressed the fact that ROTC is the primary source__of officer perso~ncl for the nuhtary _and emp_hasiz.ed the ~ouble rcquircl'!lc,nt m ~his ..area tor_ both the Iberally educated officer as well as lhe_acadci_ny graduate. It was their feeling that u large scale downgrade of this program would seriously infringe upon the number of officers of the first category. 
The arguments in favor of ROTC arc many. However, 
Foreign Car Service and Parts... For All Makes and Models ... IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 

ATTENTION SENIORS 
COMMONWEALTH COLLEGE BUILDER COSTS LESS! 
If you have not turned 22 before 
Jan. 1, 1969, here is what you would 
pay for our COLLEGE BUILDER PLAN:~ 
10,000 Life Paid up at 65 $13.41/mo. 
15,000 Life Paid up at 65 $19.56/mo. 
Included in that price you have the following benefits: 
Accidental death ..................................................... 3 t1mes face amount Travel death ............................................................ 4 times face amount Loss of one limb ............................................................... '!• face amount Loss of two limbs ................•....•......... face amount (waiver of premium) Loss of eyesight.................................. face amount (waiver of premium) 
Return of all premiums if death occurs in first 20 years of policy 
Full Military Coverage COMPARE before you buy 
Deferred Premiums contact: KEN EVERETT 
Plus other benefits 287-8891 
Vote 


CASS REJENT 

Sophomore Class Treasurer 
f»._'MONSTRA T/ON ,;lND TOURNAMf.J\'T 

April23, 1969:7:00-9:30 P.M. $1.00 TIVOLI TIIEATRE Mishawaka 
~ 
Driving Range 
Par 3 Golf Course 
Miniature Golf Course 
Open -Duy & Night (weal her permitting) 

PJay ]and GoJf Center 
1700 Lincoln Way East South Bend, Ind. Phone 288-0033 




BE A SWINGER ! 
and own your own Polaroid ­It's easy, Just pick up your own SCRIPTO Pen at the BOOKSTORE and receive alucky number from the cashier. 
The 3rd Drawing will be held t.pri128!! 
ANNOUNCEMENT 
Tlze O~vmpic Bachelor Committee regrets to announced the fJassing of une ofits eminent members from its ranks. We join willz thousands ofbachelors across the land in expressing our deep sorrow and sense ofloss at the engagement of 
DENNIS B. McCARTHY 
We would he remiss, howeFer, if we did nut extend our congratulations to 
BETH ANN BROWN 
fur subduing this heretofore wzcunquerable bachelor. We concede titis long and bitter hattie to you, Beth, and your St. Mary's cohorts. Out-fought. out-llwnetn•ered and out-smarted the irrestJOnsible Irishman has betrayed our code and asked for your hand in marriage. 
The Olympic Uachelor Committee 
us-ED CARS 

See-Ed Moran (N.D. 
69) at John's Auto Sale!~ 
702 Mishawaka phone: 255-9342 

They've been at it for most of 1--------------+-----------------__:--------1 
t he ucademic year, and I guaruntee that their comments 
TAl RYU KAN and recommendations will get 
SCHOOL OF

uttention and appropriate uction." One of the major criticisms of 

KARATE 

the ROTC' programs has been 





FINANCE CLUB MEMBERSHIPS 
All interested BA and non-BA students may obtain membership applications in lobby of Old BA Building. 
Q

uestions and Applications to: 445 Cavanaugh or 206 Morrissey MR & MRS GARVEY 
STEVE JOliN
i · l · 
TED FAIIY

Deadline: 6 p.m., Thurs., Apri/24 CHUCK & MARY PERRIN MARY ANN TORREL 
I ~~~~~~~~~~:L-------------------~ MORNING GLORY BRIGADE 
LOU MacKENZIE

AUTHENTICALLY MAERRYWHETHRE CHRIS RAMMING
SIMON & BLAHA CHUCK WORDELL
GINTHER SISTERS DORIS CORBETT
FEATHERRAIN RICK HOMAN
PAUL GUERNSEY PAT CLINTON
BIFF & SHIRLEY HICKORY WINO
DORIAN CASEY DUNLEVY
CHERRY SAVOY C.R. HECKAMANTHE BLUEGRASS GENTLEMEN MELANIEOLINDA JIM FUNSTONJEFF JOHNSON PHIL& JOHN 

... and manv others/ come casua(--bring a blanket-and see them all at the 


COLLEGIATE FOLK FESTIVAL 
TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY 
4 SESSIONS AFTERNOONS at 2:30 EVENINGS at 7:30 
IN STEPAN CENTER 
Patron Tickets Good For All 4 Sessions $1.50 ON SALE IN DINING HALLS 
tickets for individual sessions on sale at door: 
afternoons--$.50 
evenings--$1.00 

THE OBSERVER
PAGE 4 MONDAY, APRIL 21, 1969 
• 

I Tennis squad WinS
I 
~ by Pete Bruderle . I Observer sports wnter
I 
I 
Tom Fallon's netmen spent a 
~ 
~ 
procuctive day on the courts Sunday, coasting to consecutive victories over Maruqette and De­f Paul. Marquette succumbed 8-1 
~ 
in the morning while DePaul took it on the chin 9-0 later in the afternoon. 
Against Marquette the Irish took all six singles matches, with Jim Faught and Tim Whiting each posting 6-0, 6-0 wins. The only loss for Notre Dame came in one doubles match, otherwise Marquette never really threatened. 
With DePaul it was more of the same for Fallon's forces. Number one and two men Ber­nie LeSage and Mike Reilly each waltzed through their singles matches and then combined for an easy 6-0, 6-2 win in the doubles. 
Bob "The Bouncer" O'Malley turned in a 6-0, 6-1 win in the singles and came back with Tim Whiting for a snappy 6-4, 6-1 
~­

. 
victory in the doubles. 
The Irish are now 2-1 on the season but the competition stif­fens in the next few weeks. Four of the five upcoming matches will be against Big Ten squads. 
Singles 
l. LeSage (ND} d. Ruehl (M) 6-2,6-3. 
2. 
Reilly (ND} d. Murray (M) 6-0,6-4. 

3. 
O'Malley (ND) d. Mulcahy (M) 6-1, 6-2. 

4. 
Faught (ND) d. Abere (M) 6-0,6-0. 

5. 
Whiting (ND) d. Marcdante (M) 6-0, 6-0. 

6. 
Murray (ND) d. Mahoney (M) 6-1,6-1. 


Doubles 
1. Murray-Early (ND} d. Ru­
ehl-Murray (M) 7-5,6-1. 2. Lanahan-Marqua1dt (ND} 
d. Abers-Mahoney (M) 6-1, 6-0. 
3. Petersmith-Day (M) d. Mul­cahy-Marcdante (ND) 7-5, 6-3. 

One of the few brlght spots in Jake Kline's otherwise bleak pitchjng picture has been Jim Phelps who Saturday raised his record to 3-0. 


Is This Your Number? 
***** 304967 ••••• 
If so, come to the Bookstore with your stub and collect your Polaroid Camera any day between 9 and 5. 

Notre Dame 8, Marc;c:ette'l. 
1. 
LeSage (ND) d. Attallah ( DeP) 6-0, 6-l. 

2. 
Reilly (ND) d. Hahn (DeP} 6-3, 6-3. 

3. 
O'Malley (ND) d. Kirsten (DeP) 6-0, 6-1. 

4. 
Faught (ND) d. Backman (DeP) 6-2, 6-3. 

5. 
Whiting (ND} d. Collins (DeP} 6-3, 6-3. 

6. 
Murray (ND) d. King (DeP) 6-4, 6-2. 




··r.;/ 

1. LeSage-Reilly (ND) d. ,7 Attallah-Hahn (D.eP) 5-0,6-2. 
2. Faught-Earley (ND) d. 
Bernie j..eSage (left) and Mike ReiDy. ND's number one
Kirsten-Backman (DeP) 6-1, 6-1. 
and two singles players, sparked the Irish to drubbings of
3. O'Malley-Whiting (NO) d. Collins-King (DeP) 6-4, 6-1. Marquette and DePaul. Each won two singles matches and 
Notre Dame 9, DePaul 0 collaborated for one in doubles. 





Defense shines in scrimmage 
Quarterback Joe Theis mann scored one touchdown and passed for another as Notre Dame held its first Sautrday scrimmage of the spring season. The contest featured various combinations of the three offen­sive and d defensive units pitted against each other with the de­fense getting the upper hand most of the way. 
With a sizeable crowd on the sidelines at Cartier Field on Sat­urday aftern on, the number one offense scored three times on the number three defense with Theismann scoring on a nifty 19 yard run. Fullback Jeff Zimmerman hulled in twice from short range. 
"?:1e best of the early per­formances belonged to the coaches. During the struggle, several of them stood behind the different units with charts in hand. They constantly yelled and many times swore at their charges, to the delight of the crowd. They somehow managed to keep out of the way of the action. 
Not all the quickness, how­ever, was on the field. Precari­ously perched an end-run away from oblivion, the sideline crowd was forced to put to­gether several fine moves to keep alive. 
After the early scores, the defenses took over. The number one unit, led by Mike McCoy (someone had him and Theis­mann in mind when he coined the phrase "opposite ends of the spectrum"), was immovable. Tom Nash blocked a punt and Tim Kelly and Don Reid had interceptions to blunt the other offenses. Reserved defender Clarence Ellis also pilfered a pass. 
Theismann returned to the field to face a stiffer defense and managed to dent it with a long TD pass. After scrambling away from defenders and scattering coaches, he found Ed Ziegler, who took the ball in to complete a 60-yard play. The longest ef­fort of~the day, however, was an 84-yard touchdown run by Jim Yoder, a reserve quarterback. 
Tom Gatewood, a much­
heralded freshman, injured his 
knee during warm-ups and was 
taken to the dressing room. 
The approximate line-ups for 
the top three units: 
Split end--Eaton, Snow, 
Stark. 
Tight end-Poskon, Lawson, 
Barz. 
Tackles-Kennedy, Reilly, Ru­
zicka, Martin, Kadish, Gasseling, 
Cowin. 

Guards-Kos, DiNardo, Hem­son, Patulski, Grenda, Massey, pel, G. Kelly, Dampeer, Gustat-­Hildebrand. son. Tackles-McCoy, Mudron, Zi­
Center-Oriard, Novakov, kas, Marx, Pope, Yahle. 
McCann. Linebackers-Olson, Schu­Quarterback-Theismann, Et­macher, Neidert, T. Kelly, Zu­ter, Yoder, Gores. ber, Patton, Merlitti, Thomann, Halfbacks-Huff, Ziegler, Witchger, Trapp, Cloherty, Witt­
Crotty, Minnix, Jackson, Peiffer. liff, McHale. F u II backs.-Zimmerman, Safety-Reid, Ellis, Sigrist. Cieszkowski, Zielony. Defensive backs-Zloch, Gas­ser, Stepaniak, Gulyas, Menie, Ends-Lambert, Nash, Swend-Brandt, Gallagher. 
N D splits doublebill 
The Irish couldn't improve on their season record this past Saturday as they split a doubleheader with Bowling Green. Both games were well-pitched shutouts. 
The opener saw Ron Wellman of the visitors extend his season mark to 5-0 as he stopped the Irish on five hits. Although he went the route he didn't record one strikeout. In the nightcap lefty Jim Phelps won his third without a defeat as he blanked the visitors on a brilliant two hit performance. ND dropped the first game 3-0 and triumphed in the second l-0. 
Bowling Green has an 11-8 record, and took the opening game on the bat of Russ Hagerty, a senior rightfielder whose three hits amounted to half the total against loser Bob Arnzen. He had all three rbi's. 
Notre Dame blew a big scoring chance as they loaded the bases in the first inning with only one out but Wellman pitched out of this jam and coasted the rest of the way. Rich Lucke had two of the hits off Wellman, including a two-out double in the ninth. 
Phelps, who owns three of the 
four N D victories, pitched 
l),Jasterfully in the shortened 
(seven innings) nightcap. Not 
eve.n Mr. Hagerty could touch 
Phelps in this contest nor could 
the Falcons leading hitter, Bruce 
Rasor, who owned a .420 
batting average previous to this 
doubleheader. Rasor went 0 for 
7 on the afternoon. 
After missing good scoring 
chances in the second and third 
innings, the Irish scored the only 
run they needed off loser Bill 
Grein in the fifth. John Rogers 
opened the inning with a triple 
to the centerfield fence. After Phelps bounced out,. Jim Gieselman walked and moved to second on Nick Scarpelli's infield out. Tom Lux lofted a single to center, scoring Rogers, but Bowling Green's Harris cut down Gieselman at the plate with a throw that Roberto Clemente would have been proud of. 


The split left the Irish with a 4-5 record with Northwestern scheduled for a visit this afternoon on Cartier Field at 3 o'clock. Tomorrow Coach Jake Kline's squad is a guest at Michigan State, followed by a weekend series against Western Michigan-Friday at Notre Dame and Saturday at Kalamazoo. 
BviiVLING GREEN' 
ab r h bi 
Knox,2b 3 0 1 0 
Kar:1ehm,ss 1 0 0 0 
Miller,lf 3 0 1 0 
Hagerty, rf 2 0 0 0 
Rasor,c 3 0 0 0 
Harris,cf 3 0 0 0 
Barry,1b 2 0 0 0 
McKenzie, ph 1 0 0 0 
Hill,3b 3 0 0 0 
Grein,p 2 0 0 0 
Wylie 1 0 0 0 
Totals 24 0 2 0 
NfJTRE DAME 
ab r h bi 
~ies'man, If 1 0 C 0 
~.arpelli,2b 3 0 1 0 
Lux,3b 3 0 2 1 
Lucke,cf 3 0 0 0 
Krill,ss 3 0 ') 0 
Keenan,c 3 0 2 0 
Horan,rf 3 0 1 !) 
Rodgers,1b 2 1 1 0 
Phelps,p 2 0 0 0 
n.,tals 23 1 7 1 
Bowling Green...........•.OOO .'loo 0-0 Notre Dame..........•.....OOO 010 x-1 E-Rasor, Krill 2. LOB-Bowling Green 6, Notre Dame 6. 3B-Miller, Rogers. S-Karnehm. 
IP H R ER BB SO Grein ( L,3-2) ..... 6 7 1 1 2 0 
Phelps (W,3-0' 7 2 0 0 2 3 



