

1 
j 
VOL. IV, No. 49 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1969 
l 
Dow -CIA controversy continues 
oy Rich Smith 
tests "depends on how the Dedrick was told that the leal­
lass, spokesman for the group. Corporation and the Central
Plans for a rally today at 2:30 
In te IIi gence Agency. .the administration responds to the lets had been confiscated
Those aims were enunciated
were finalized a meeting yes­
at impropriety of allowin3 organi­original issue," Douglass said. because he had not been given
in the faculty statement issued
terday afternoon by the people 
At the conclusion of the permission to distribute them. 
on November 19, and include: zations engaged in the sale and
involved in the L>ow-CIA protest 
meeting, Tim MacCarry, who When he attempted to leave
"Tbe university's subservience to export of death and repression
of last week. A dcdsion on any was arrested for loitenng on with the leaflets, Dedrick said
the political and economic sys­to recruit Notre Dame students
further adion to be taken will Tuesday, commented on what is that the police officer grabbed
tem represented by the Dow with complete cooperation of
he made after the hearing on involved in the dispute. "It is his arm and the leaflets. Dedrick
the University, .. .forcing under­
Wednesday wncerning the ex­
graduates, graduates, and faculty impo.rtant to keep in mind that accused the officer of robbing
pulsion of five students and the 
members into direct action to the main issue here is University him of his leaflets. suspension of five others. complicity in a social order Dedrick said he called Father
prevent this abuse of this self­Those present at the meeting proclaimed 'Christian' univer­not liberal pleas for mercy and Wilson, Vice-President for Bus­induded: Professor Douglass, for reform," he said. iness Affairs, and father Joyce
sity."
Tim MacCarry. Brian Mcinerney, and asked for an explanation of
Professor Douglass said that
Tom !Ienehan, Shelley Smith. Miss Weller said the University the seizure of the leaflets. After
the possibility of further action
Peter Smith, Professor James "seems to have abrogated its getting nowhere. he said he
hinges on whether the students
l\lassey, Chris Barlow. Chris Cot­whole Christian context in favor ca lied Mr. Philip Faccenda,
at the hearing are able to raise
ter, and Karen Weller. of an order-keeping organ of Special Assistant to the Presi­
"basic qucstions" concerning
"The basic aims of the orig­sodety. This really saddens me. dent, and got the same result.
"the University's complicity"
inal demonstration against the That this, the Christian Univer­The police officers and the
with such corporations and agen­
L>ow Corporation and the Cen­sity in the country, should expel leaflet distributors then went to
cies.
tral Intelligence Agency will be and suspend those who attempt the ticket office and were told
If the hearings are concerned
the theme of the rally," accor­to put Christianity into context, that Mr. Robert Cahill, Business
with solely technical questions,
ding to Professor James L>oug-really saddens me." Manager of Athletics, had or­
such as whether a student was or 
Sunday night groups of stu­dered the confiscation. 
was not sitting or standing in 
dents and faculty went around Unable to reach Cahill, they
front of a door, that will be 
to the dorms to give presenta­talked to Mr. Don Bouffard,
'Ten' issue statement 
unacceptable and further action 
tions of their position against Ticket Manager and Assistant
will be necessary, according to 
Gary Mcinerney, representing United States and to our the University's complicity with· Business Manager, who told
Professor Douglass. the ten students involved in business interests, regardless of Dow and the CIA. them that they had no permis­
disciplinary proceedings brought their credibility or popular On Saturday, before the foot­sion to distribute the leaflets and
"The fifteen minute rule is 

by the university as a result of support. This denies self irrelevant" Douglass said in reply ball game, Student Body Vice­that the leaflets would be 
last week's Dow-CIA determination. to a question about whether the President Fred Dedrick and sev­returned after the game. 
deomonstrations, released the The concept of the Christian demonstration would concern eral other persons were distribu­Dedrick said he asked why 
following statement last night University has never been itself with father Hesburgh's ting leaflets opposed to Dow and they would be allowed to dis­
famous edict.
which reflects the beliefs of the examined at Notre Dame. Can CIA. tribute the leaflets after the group concerning the main issue this University isolate itself from "We plan to undertake direct The South Bend police confis­game and not before, but did our cated about four thousand of not receive an answer. Two calls
involved. ed. the moral dimensions of action in as closely related a society? Should we allow the leaflets, according to were then made, the second to
form as possible to the original ourselves to be channelled and Dedrick. After stepping inside the police station, and the leaf­
demonstration," Douglass said. directed into unquestioning the police station at the stadium, lets were returned.
The possibility of future pro-There is no right to kill cooperation with the corporate indiscriminatorily and there is system, or should this university no right to make money through challenge students into exploitation of other men. Last attempting to restructure society Tuesday the Placement Bureau to end the sicknesses? Notre invited for interviews the Central Dame cannot openly attack the Intelligence Agency and Dow evils of America in its classrooms Chemical Company, to obvious and simultaneously give tacct examples of the unChristian and approval to corporate activities materialistir..: priorities which which arc at best morally r..:haracterize the American questionable. sodety today. Besides its long For Notre Dame to allow its tradition of manufacturing facilities to he used by genoddal weapons, L>ow has corporations to advance their established a world-wide system objectives is to become a of corporate control, thereby functioning part of the enabling it to gain large profits corporate system. The from those countries which arc interviewing process is one of technologically inferior to the the many normal activities of United States. The CIA provides these companies, much the same a base for this control by as running a memory bank or subverting the political processes making travel arrangements. For of these countries through the University to take part in the . assassinations, governmental corporations' processes in this overthrows, and subsidizing manner is to be an accoiTIPlke to 
The Poobah bowl is interrupted as both sides look for Phil McKenna's contact. See story on page 6. 
governments friendly to the (continued oil page !)) 





...-------------~------------­
-

711£ OBSEilWit MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1969 
PAGE 2 
•


Cultural arts supporters rally 1n field house 
by Paul Gallagher 
A colorful collage of faculty members and students interested in persuadil'!g the university to up the cultural arts on its list of priorities in the next few years and to delay demolition of the fieldhouse until its servicibility as an art center can be explored is expected to turn out for a special rally in the fieldhouse this afternoon. 
The rally sponsored by the University Arts Council (UAC) and set for 4: 30 is part of an attempt to demonstrate to uni­versity administrators that "there are some people who are concerned about the situation of the arts on campus." 
The University Arts Council is 
already convinced that a good 
portion of the Notre Dame-SMC 
community support their at­
tempts to reemphasize the crea­
tive arts, said UAC chairmar 
Tom Kronk. However, at a meet­
ing last W afternoon, 
COPYFIIQHT 1969, T, & CO. 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. 
CHICAGO 



L---------------------------------­
N.D. men over 100 years.
PHONE: 944-7500•ZIP: 60611 

and is able to talk." Lectures" will be sponsored by
1-------------,_______________;_-'---------------. the Notre Dame Chapter of the 
Notre Dame and StJ Mary's Students you're invited 

OPEN HOUSE NOTRE DAME L.AW SCHOOL. 
Saturday, December 6, 10a.m. 
Free Lunch 

Program by Dean and Faculty 
1. 
LSAT exam, what it is and how to take it 

2. 
Legal Education Opportunites in U.S. 

3. 
Admissions and Scholarships at Notre Dame 

4. 
Program and methods at Notre Dame 

5. 
Career Opportunities in Law 


Please call or write Admissions Office, Law School, for reservations-283-6626, 7092, 7015, 
members of the UAC decided to 
hold the rally to consolid:1te sup­
port and make it visible. 
According to Kronk early sup­
port for the activities of the 
newly formed creative arts group 
came in the form of response to 
a cin;ulated petition. Over 2100 
Notre Dame and SMC students 
signed a statement asking Fr. 
Hesburgh to hold off on the 
fieldhouse demolition. 

Support has also come from the Observer, Scholastic and Stu­dent Senate as well as from a host of faculty members, said Kronk. Indeed, last Thursday the student senate passed by concensus vote a resolution sub­mitted by Stay Senator John Zimmerman asking that the uni­versity reexamine its priorities and hold off on demolition of the fieldhouse "until all of the facts are brought to view con­cerning a possible arts center." 
The senate resolution was 

Donnely seriously hurt in fatal car collision 
Notre Dame sophomore Jim Donnelly is in St. Joseph's intensive care ward with hip and skull fractures and facial lacerations suffered in a head-on car collision early yesterday morning on Juniper Road. Another person died in the accident and the three others involved received serious injuries. 
Donnelly was returning to the campus in an Indiana Cab travelling south on Juniper near Douglas Road at 4:30 a.m. Sunday when a northbound vehicle went out of control, crossed the center line, and hit the taxi head on. 
Pronounced dead on the scene by St. Joseph Deputy County Coroner was James E. Riggs of 509 South 28th St. in South Bend. Riggs, 21, was a front seat passenger in the north bound 

~-------------.,Traffic Division, said that 
5TUDENTS FACULTY & ADMINISTRATION: 

Feel Stimulated & Refreshed! Go to: 
N.D. Barbershop Hours 8:00a.m. to 4:45 Sat. 8:00a.m. to 11:45 Open 5~ days a week. Serving 
vehicle which was driven by Michael W. Wawrzniak of 18263 Warrick in South Bend. Wawrzniak, 19, is being treated at Memorial Hospital for injuries received. 
Sitting in the back seat of Wawrniak's car was Marvin Cooley, 28, of I?V2 South St. Louis in South Bend who suffered broken bones. 
Indiana Cab driver George M. Psarkis, 4 7, received a broken left ankle and lacerations on the face and hands. Psarkis lives at 413 West Colfax in South Bend. 
Both Psarkes and Riggs were pinned in the wreckage until Rescue Squad No. 2 of the South Bend Fire Department arrived and used power saws to free the two. They were trapped for almost forty-five minutes. 
Sargeant J.F. Russell, in charge of the St. Joseph County 
Wawrzniak has been charged with reckless driving. He said that the accident case will be referred to the county 
prosecutor on Monday for presentation to the grand jury. 
Donnelly, a resident of Stanford Hall, is originally from Saverna Park, Maryland. His room ate, Dave Slawkowski, commented yesterday, "I saw Jim in the intensive care unit today; he looks well, is consciou, passed following a moving ap­peal by John Mathias of the English Department stressing the need for reemphasizing the arts on campus. 
Also present to speak to the senate in behalf of the resolution were Dr. Thomas Fern, Acting head of the Notre Dame Art Department and Pat Dowdall, Student Union Academic Com­missioner. Fern who earlier in the year released a 1.3 million dollar proposal that would con­vert the fieldhouse into a cultur­a! arts center, stressed that he wanted time to discuss the issue further and check into possible funding for the project. 
This afternoon, Fern and-Dowdall will join Student Body President Phil McKenna and Pro­fessor Costello as principal speakers at the rally. Following the four short speeches, Dr. Fern's fieldhouse proposal will be outlined in detail, discussion will be entertained and a petit­ion in support of delaying the demolition of the fieldhouse will be circulated. 
Organizers of the rally discuss­ed the pros and cons of sponsor­ing demonstrations to compli­ment the rally activities, but have decided against it. One sug­
rl 
·I\ 

ReVI'\eMbe..r w~.., t~Qt ~~1 -h'e.IJk~e. sf~od 001 #.;, SPot? 
gestion had art enthusiasts wrap­ping the administration building in clear plastic and floating bal­loons strategically past admini­strators windows. However, UAC members felt that such tac­tics might bring a harmful levity to the entire rally and lessen the force of their message. 
Society of Sigma Xi, a nat ion-wide organization en­couraging scientific research in all fields. Dr. Cornelius P. Browne, professor of physics and president of the Chapter, and Dr, Ernest L. Eliel, professor of chemistry and immediate past president, explained that most Sigma Xi members wished to honor Father More as the man "who provided much of the ini­tial effort in establishing Notre Dame as a center for scientific 


1.1.&.Uu.sc -· JVt"stolt3""· 
Craftsmen in Optics 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSES-­
THI:' SHHRLAND BLDG. 132 S. MICHIGAN ST. 
Centra/2-1468 
TJ.eJltll$t, oJViSion ~­
Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.--Chicago 

lecture series honors the late Fr. Moore 
The relationship of science to public affairs is the theme of a new lecture series to be es­tablished at the University of Notre Dame. 
The series will be named for the late Rev. PhilipS. Moore, a former vice president for aca­demic affairs and dean of the graduate school. Father Moore. died Tuesday (Nov. 18) at Holy Cross on the Notre Dame cam­pus. He was 69. 
The new "Philip S. Moore excellence." 
While Father Moore was dean of the graduate school from 1944 to 1952, enrollment rose from SO to 200. 
In addition, research in organic and medicinal chemistry in­creased, the physical and radiation chemistry laboratories were established, and several new graduate programs in sci­ence and engineering were creat­
ed. 
Father Moore became vice president for academic affairs in 1952, and academic assistant to the president of Notre Dame from 1958 to his retirement in 1966. A native of Wabash, Ind., he was a noted Mediaeval scho­lar, and headed Notre Dame's philosophy department from 1942 to 1948. 
The first Philip S. Moore Lec­turer will be Dr. Alvin M. Weinberg director of the Oak Ri.dge National Laboratory, who 
wtll speak on March 31 1970. 
' 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1969 THE OBSERUER. PAGE 3 


GSU makes TA situation known to trustees 
by Fred Schaefer Kesults of a recent meetin., with the Trustees, insurance, the Christmas Dance and basketball highlighted the items discussed at the Graduate Student Union meeting last Friday. The GSU also announced that it is seeking to seat two members of the Graduate Council. The Graduate Council is a division of the administration which governs graduate studies and determines policies affecting grad students. Presently there is no student representation on the body. It was also recommended that each department look into setting up a Graduate Studies Committee with student members to look into the program of the department. 
Items which this committee 
might study include not only the 
actual course work, but also 
things like language 
requirements for each degree. 
In its report, the publication committee reported a need for a bulletin which they estimated would cost in the neighborhood of $1000 per year. This is felt 11ecessary in order that all would he adequately informed and to 
provide an open forum within the group. 
To finance this and other proposals, the Finance Committee reported that they see a need to raise funds and a fee is the most likely possibility. A referendum will have to be held sometime before the beginning of the second semester to see if the body of the 
SU out-poobahs SG on hot call 
(continued from page 6) 
after checking with referee Don 
llolliday, who said Dedrick was 
stopped short, called the score 
back. Student Government was 
then assessed a fifteen yard 
bench penalty due to the actions 
of Mike Shaughnessy on the 
sidelines. 
Despite cries from the 

sidelines that Hunter resigned 

the call stood. 
Student Union's Paul 

llagenbach ended the threat by 
inter..:epting a pass. However 
Student Union on the next se 
of downs, had a pass intercepte 
on their fifteen and Student 
<iovernment was knocking o 
the door again. 
After two incomplete passes, time ran out and the Student Union poohahs were victorious 6-0. 
l>hil McKenna said this about 
Need a Pleasant 
and Private 

Dinner Meeting 
Room? 

Try the /Jiack Angus with its friendly atmosphere and two prh•ate dining rooms a••ailahle most times except 1•-,ic/ay and Saturday nights. (;reat steak dinners and easy­ljn-the-pockethook prices of course. For reservations phone 
234·2292 



STEAK HOUSE 
1516 N. Ironwood Dr., southeast of Convocation Center between South Bend Ave. and Edison Rd. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 1 1, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre 46556. 
the officiating that cost Student Government a touchdown. "May the bird of paradise fly 
organization is in agreement. 
The amount will probably be between three and six dollars per student and it is hoped that this can be included in the fees paid by each student to the University. This system will have to advantage that those who are on grants, which include all fees, would have this taken care of automatically. 
Among the items discussed by theActivities Committee was the proposed basketball league. It is presently being formed and will begin competition after Thanksgiving. The league will be patterned on the lnterhall League. A list of rules has been given to all members of the Graduate Student Council who will pass them on th their constituents. A meeting to discuss these will be held December 2 at 8 p.m. in Room 211 of the Engineering Building. 
A dance is tentatively scheduled for December 12. Mike Kasper suggested that a Christmas Party be held instead 
up 

obligated to bring a date. It is thought that this will be self-supporting. 
Joe Kelly reported on the university's offer to include the graduate assistants under the group insurance for employees. Premiums of 26.20 per family or 
9. 9 0 for singles would be deducted from the paychecks if one signs up for the program. However this would have to be paid year round which means that one could not drop out of 
the program for the summer and return to it in the fall. 
A report was given by the delegates to the Student Affairs Committee who had met with he Board of Trustees in an attempt to impress them with the plight of the graduate students. The general impression of these representatives was that this body seemed more concerned with the undergraduates as is evidenced by the future agenda of the organization. In fact, it was discovered that most of the Trustees were not even aware that graduate students were teaching on this campus. 
As a result of the meeting, it has been decided that something will be done about the English TA's proposal by January. Many of the Trustees appeared to be interested in the problems of the graduates once they were 
pointed  out.  In  fact,  Trustees  
Thomas  Carney  and  Edmund  
Stephan  will  meet  with  them  

over tlfe coming holidays. 
A forum will be held December 3 in the Alumni Club by the Fact Finding Committee. This will be completely open to 
•the public. Its purpose is to discuss anything pertinent to the T A situation. Among other to pies, a proposal to limit teaching hours to not more than 3 per week and working hours to a maximum of fifteen will be on the agenda. 
Reports on all of these activities will be made at the next GSU meeting to be held after Thanksgiving. 
PAGE 4 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1969 




THE OBSERVER
' 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
DONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Publisher GAETANO DE SAPIO, Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Draft lottery 
The draft lottery bill now awaiting President Nixon's signature only makes an unjust draft system less unjust and lacks any substantial reason for optimism among the advocates of a volunteer army. 
President Nixon's attempt to remove some of the inequities, however, deserves some praise. Formerly draftees included a disproportionately high number of men that were either poor or black or uneducated. With a lottery, the advantage a man had who was of college calibre and was financially able to attend college is now offset immediately after high school graduation. Also, discrimination against blacks from the vast maj'ority of all white draft boards is lessened by the de-emphasis on local boards. 
However, we feel that there were many more serious questions about the old draft practices that were not even considered. 
Paramount in importance is the question of selective conscientious objection. Presently, a man is not able to declare himself conscientiously opposed to a particular war. He must declare himself conscientiously opposed to all wars in order to obtain a conscientious objector status. 
We believe that it is imperative that the government respect the individual's right not to kill in a particular war if his conscience considers the killing to be unjust and immoral. We ask President Nixon by presidential preroga­tive to allow for selective conscientious objection in the current lottery bill. 
Chairman John Stennis (D-Mis!>issippi) of the Senate Armed Services Committee promised that his committee will hold "wide-open hearings" on other aspects of draft reform by next February 15th. He said the abolition of local boards, deferments for conscientious objectors, and the volunteer army concept will be discussed among other things. 
We urge him to put the passage of another draft reform bill next year high on his list of priorities and we commend him on the ideas he has mentioned that will be discussed. 
We believe that the President can take an active role in ensuring that a draft reform bill is forthcoming next year. We urge him to use the force of his office to accomplish this task. He engineered the passage of the draft lottery bill and he can again push through a bill next year. He only needs the will to ensure success. 
We remind President Nixon that when he is pondering 
the question of what kind of draft reform is needed and 
wanted, he remember his campaign promise to construct a 
volunteer army. 
We sincerely hope that the President never has to be 
held accountable for breach of promise. 
C.W. 

David Breen, Business Manager  Photo Editor: Mike Murphy  The opinions in the editorials,  
Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr.  Features Editor: Dave Stauffer  news  analyses,  and  columns  of  
News Editor: Glen Corso  Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin  The Observer are solely those of  
SMC  News  Editor:  Prudence  Night Editor: Cliff Wintrode  the  authors  and  editors of The  
Wear  Layout  Design:  Phil  Barth,  Observer and  do  not  necessarily 
Associate  Editors:  Cliff  Win­ Marty Tieber  reflect the views of the University  
trode,  Ann  Conway,  Laura  Layout:  Dave  Bach,  John  of  Notre  Dame,  St.  Mary's 
Haferd, Jeanne Sweeny  Knorr, Mary Ellen Burke  College,  their  administrations,  
Layout  Editor:  Mary  Beth  Headlines:  Rich  Smith,  Jan  faculty, or student bodies.  
Crimmons  Reime, Tom Law  


"At first I saw in the Revolution a chance for a tremendous outburst of revenge ... And now the very thought of it terrifies me ... all the meaning drained out of this revenge ... lt was inhuman. It was dull and curiously technocratic." 
Marat/Sade 

Dave Lammers To affirm life 
Now that the Dow-CIA recruiters have left for a while it would be all too easy for the Administration to purge some of the radical leaders and wait for yet another disruption of law and order, content that its rule of fear had been effective. It would also be easy for the radical leaders to marshall forces for another conflict over "university complicity'. or whatever else they think needs changing. But "the rule of fear" and "intensifying the conflict'. do not bespeak of a community, they speak of a battleground. 
Both sides of the conflict are plagued by pride and self-righteousness. The radicals have much to say about what a Christian university shshould be all about, but the politics of confrontation will never gain that ideal: they can only polarize and alienate the community. As Thomas Merton says in Faith and 
Violence: 
"If we are obvious~)' unwilling to accept any truth that we have not first discovered and declared ourselves, we show by that very fact that we are interested not in he truth so much as in 'being right.' Since the adversary is presumably interested in being right also, and in proving himself right by what he considers the superior argument of force, we end up where we started. Non-violence has great power, provided that it really witnesses to truth and not just to self-righteousness. " 
Tuesday, both sides had painted themselves into an ideological corner. Just as the demonstrators declined to leave the dorway, the Administration has either been uninterested or unable to communicate or relate to the objectives of the students. Is Father Riehle able to communicate with the radicals, or does he consider that outside of his job? Is it right for Father Hesburgh to take the first plane out of South Bend when he sees the community breaking apart? Why was the Senate resolution for an open forum with the interviewers ignored, and why were interviews denied to members of the Coalition for Political Action? It is my opinion that both sides of the confrontation were forced into their respective positions by a total lack of communication and respect fo the other side. 
There are three immediate questions that face the community that may determine whether the campus continues to polarize into two warring camps. These questions must be faced by everyone in the community, indluding all those not involved in the demonstration, including Father Hesburgh. 
First, "support demonstrations" that will only serve to intensify the conflict must be avoided, as they can only increase the barriers to meaningful communication. Support demonstrations can only jeopardize the already tenuous position of members of the community. 
Secondly, both the right and the left must reexamine the importance of the other side. Immediate, short range goals may have to be suspended (even though people are dying every day) so that the long range goal-a Christian community-can be achieved. 
Thirdly, it can in no way be of any benefit to the university to suspend those people who were involved in the demonstration. The suspensions will give credence to the rule of fear which the administration has in its power and while order may be imposed, that order will not be based on the concept of community; it can only serve to increase the already tense relations that prohibit the building of a Christian community. 
Students, faculty, and administrators must face the larger question that precipitated the demonstration last Tuesday: what does it mean when we say that Notre Dame is a Christian university? It is only when people on the left realize that disruption has no place in this community and when the Administrators realize that the fifteen minute rule is also not contributive to the community that we can begin to recognize and build upon the unique character of this university: Christianity. 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1969 PAGE 5
THE OBSIRJIDt 

He was a day stripper 

It was a sunset strip last Saturday as Tom Allen took it off for the last time in Notre Dame stadium. As the fighting Irish hand obligingly played "The Stripper" thousands of eyes, including those of the foot hall players and TV announcers, fell upon I he ''man of a thousand shirts." Those close to him claim 0 
!,( 

that tears welled in Allen's eyes as he disrobed for the OJ 0 final time as a collegian. Although Notre Dame is sad to sec him go, this 

may not signal the end to Allen's fabulous career. It is rumored that swuts from the Chicago Hears arc very optimistic about the senior's chances as a professional on the 30 yard line at Wrigley Field. They will meet with rough bidding competition however from twelve topless nightclubs in San Francisco. 
Allen would seem to be a prime candidate for the lleisman Trophy, hut experts are quick to point out that no spectator has ever been honored with this award. 
It is also rumored that Allen may be the first person ever to play a dual role in the Noxcma advertisement, taking off whiskers in one scene and clothes in the other. 
-Dave Stauffer 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111 
by Jim E. Brogan 
"A rock concert is as much a theatrical performance as a musical one." So says Peter Townsend of the Who, and on this point I cannot agree with him more. 
It was the lack of the theatrical which 




Cherish the Association 
put a damper on the Blood, Sweat, and 
Tears concert, and came closer to making last Friday night's Association Concert a disaster. The concert started slowly and 
dragged through the first half. It was not until the last song of the first set 

r~:::,,,~,;::;~;:;::,,~~:,:::'"'"'&"""M'I 
Thanksgiving pro11ides the opportunity to not only gh·e thanks for blessings received j"rom ahol'e, hut also to thank the people and things which have allowed some personal henl!jit all(/jor hetterance during the .f(Jregoing year. 
It is in this spirit o,( thanksgiving that I therefore present a few improhahle hut perhaps appropriate thank yous from the first half of the fall semester at Notre /Jame. 
·Tim MacCarry would like to thank the St. Joseph Co. Sheriff and eight South Bend Police for giving him a free escorted ride into South Bend. 
·Rich Moran thanks all 17 people 
who faithfully read the Scholastic. 
·Fr. llesburgh thanks Fr. Riehle 
for having his hand forced. 
·Rich llunter extends his thanks 
to Edward 'Jill for setting precedence. 
-Tom Allen extends his thanks to GypsyRose Lee for setting precedence. .y AF thanks Notre Dame's silent majority for their continued support. 
·The Dow recruiter would like to 
thank demonstrators and onlookers for a 
day off. 
·SMC Student Affairs would like 
tot hank apathy for a year off. 
-Phil McKenn<l thanks the Afro­
A nu:ri~an Society for a guilt-ridden­
white·liheral 'cause'. 
·Army ROTC thanks Navy ROTC which extends thanks to Air Force ROTC which in turn thanks Army ROTC for existing in building no. 5 and con­stantly reassuring each other that they are academil:, they are academic, they are ... 
-John Mroz thanks Phil 
M~Kenna for winnin!!,. 
-C'hris Wolfe extends deepest thanks to Chris Wolfe for leading campus consl'rvatism with zeal and determina­tion. 
.(;!' management would like to thank the N D student body for their -.how of support. 
·The Vikings thank Swtt for 
the1r potty paper. 
-Fr. Joyce thanks the Cotton 
Bowl for the ~;000-chance to com­pete in an admirable athletic endeavor. -Fr. llesburgh would like to thank middle America. -Middle America would like to thank Fr. llesburgh. 
-Class and hall government thanks the Federal government for prov­ing on a larger scale that it is possible to lose money doing absolutely nothing. 
-Notre Dame's rich old alumni thank Fr. llesburgh for reassuring them on record that parietals and co-education are in fact not Commie plots. . 
-The SLC thanks the Student Senate for half of its sand. 
-The University Forum thanks Fr. Ilesburgh for a full load of sand shipped wl'!l in advance of the body's inception. 
-CPA would like to thank the old SDS for what is left at Notre Dame. 
-Arthur Pears send his thanks to Mayor Daley for inspiring him to make timely, valuable, and accurate quotes at all times. 
-Guy DeSapio thanks his night editors for keeping him at least partially sane and somewhat healthy. 
-The ..Notre Dame I0" would like to thank Fr. Riehle for the remark­able observation and intricate examina­tion which led to the suspension of those five and only those five who waited I 5 minutes and then ceased and desisted, and the expulsion of those five and only those five who neither ceased nor desisted after 15 minutes plus five minutes. 
-Dick Nixon would thank "Dear Ted" to keep his mind on 15 minutes and ojj' integration. 
-Father Riehle would thank WN DU reporters and cameramen for hav­ing thl'ir ID's handy the next time they l!l•Jlate the IS minute rule. 
-Don Holliday would thank Fr. Riehk for his ID so that he can give it up once again the next time he covers a news story for more than IS minutes. 
-Tom Fhrbar would like to thank Dave Staufft•r for hem!!, insane enough to take over this page. 
-(Goodbye Forever) that the Association finally came alive. Behind the lead singing of Larry, the Hawaiian, they finally got it together and produced a good harmony and did anything other than just play their instruments. 
Up until this point they seemed to be going through the motions, for the sole purpose of getting paid. However, there was a dramatic turnabout in the second set; they not only played, but they entertained, transforming the total effect of the c~ncert from a small disappointm(\nt into a resounding triumph. 
The concert started in the usual inaut: manner, which has gripped many concert-goers this season. After the mandatory half hour wait for the concert to start (this inability to begin the concert on time evidently has become a time-honored Notre Dame tradition along with Knute Rockne, the Four Horsemen, and the Ghost of Washington Hall) a student Union poohbah; (at least I think he belongs with the Union, the Convo Center would have more sense than to hire him), mistaking himself for Johnny Carson, feebly tried to introduce the concert. 
The near sellout crowd was then treated to a very mediocre first half, consisting of ten numbers, along with numerous minutes spent tuning up the instruments. The highlights of the first set included, Along Came Mary, Goodbye Columbus, and Never My /,ove. They were fair in the first half, getting better as they went along, but they never reached the height that their recordings promised. 
The second half was different. Their 
choice of songs was better, and they entertained the audience. They chatted between each number, telling jokes and keeping the audience loose. Their only attempt at this in the first half was the old gimmick of getting the audience to loosen up by having them to shake hands with the person to the left of them, which anyone who has ever sat in a TV studio audience has experienced in the studio warmup. 
The humor and the introductions flowed in the second half, where there were none in the first half. Perhaps a clue to this could he gotten from the remarks of the lead singer, Russ Geoner, in an exclusive Observer interview following the concert. Russ said that he had been sick to his stomach during the first half of the concert after eating a bacon, lettuce, and tomato sandwich. lle revealed that he was feeling better as the concert continued because any sickness "sort of dissolves when you're singing." 
At any rate the second half of the concert was perhaps one of the finest that we have seen in years at Notre Dame. It had all the ingredients to make it a real success-dancing, humor, audience participation, familiar hit songs, and something that has rarely been seen this year, an encore. 
The Association, the Convo Center, and the Student Union all left the concert happily because of the financial income, but more importantly the large crowd left with the knowledge that they had been thrilled by the live performance of one of the hottest groups around today. 
PAGE 6 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1969 


CHARliE'S 
STEREO TAPE PRICES 
I wanna give 'em away, but my wife won't let me 
LIST CHARLIE'S PRICE PRICE 
3.98 3.49 4.9R 4.39 5.98 5.29 6.98 5.88 7.98 6.~9 8.98 7.79 9.98 8.59 10.98 9.49 11.98 10.39 12.98 1 1.19 13.98 1 1.99 
II USE YOUR BANK CAl~~'*!·~~' i!!£:4-: ~ 
·-p;_+4!!!!!!J ..... 
OPEN DAILY 9-6 SAT. 9a.m. to 5p.m. 

PH. 287-7218 
The first post season bowl game of the year was played yesterday. as the Student Union poohahs won not only a hairbreadth 6-0 de~:ision over the Student Government poobahs but free dinner and drinks at 
Louie's in the first annual -Poobah Bowl. 
Played before a crowd of about one-hundred slightly chilled spectators, the Student Union forces pushed across a second quarter touchdown on a 35 yard Denny a to Pat Dowdall aerial and then let their awesome defense protect their lead. 
The game was marked by several penalties as both teams dismissed with the amenities early in the contest and referees Don Holliday, Phil Kukelski, and Rich Hunter were subjected to a good test of their knowledge of the game and their stamina. 
The game was played under slightly different rules that those that govern inten.:ollegiate play. The field was eighty yards by forth yards with the end zones marked by one chalk line at one end and a row of parked cars at the other end. First downs were 
I 5 yards instead of I 0. 
The most unusual rule 
was one permitting females to play. Student government took advantage of the rule and dressed Mrs. Pat Molinaro, the House Mother to Phil and the boys. Clae in a varsity uniform obtained from Tom Pagna, she stood cheering on tehe sidelines waiting for the call to enter which never came. 
Student Union did not dress Day "The Kid" Bajo for action, but chose her head coach and cheerleader. 
Student Government took the opening kickoff and was stopped cold, a pattern that was to repeat itself throughout the game. The Student Union blitz (oh, were they blitzed) was effective all afternoon. 
After a series of punts, Student Union fouHd itself on the Student Government's forty yary line. After two unsuccessful passes, quarterback Denny Clark hit Pat Dowdall on the thirty and he tightroped it down the left sidelines for a touchdown. 
The remainder of the first half was a battle of the defenses with both looking equally supurb. The Student Government passed ineffectively from the pocket while Student Union went with a play-action offense. 
Halftime talk concerned the Student Government defense 
.--------------, and how effective they parlayed 
NOTRE DAME 
ITS PEOPLE AND 
ITS LEGENDS 
by FRANCIS WALLACE 
This is the story ot the 
University of Notre O?.mC' 
from its founding to lhr_' 
present--the story 01 ih. 
people, its traditions. its 
sports, its great event~. 
and achievements, and 
its new expectal1ons 
1067 ......... $5.95 
NOTR£ DAM£ 
BOOKS TOR£ 
the seven man limit into an effective 4-2-2 or a 6-2. A suggestion was made that this might be the reason for the fine defensive play of Student Government. 
The third quarter contained more bruising defensive plays, but no offensive thrusts by either side. 
Student Government's only drive of the day came in the fourth quarter. Previously, they had punted down to the Union's four yard line where it had been downed by Dave Krashna. The Union was stymied and a punt was blocked. Student Government's Denny Clad· 
recovered on the four and a first 
down pass from Conroy to Fred 
Dedrick went for an apparent 
WHEN IT COMES DOWN TO IT, WHO REALLY DOES SUPPORT THE ARTS ?• 
-2100 students signed a petition for the field house as an arts cen fer 
-The Student Senate passed a resolution by consensus for the arts center 
-The Association of American UnversityProfessors subcommittee on student concern is presenting a petition for 

the center 
SO WHAT'S THE NEXT STEP? IT'S YOURS! Come this afternoon to the FIELDHOUSE at 4:30 



Clark-to-Dowdall bomb beats SG 
touchdown. Head referee Rich Hunter 
~:ailed the play a touchdown but 
(continued on fli!Ke 3) 


WASIIINGTON (UPI) The biggest reform bill in modern income tax history goes before the Senate today as Congress prepares to embark on a Thanks­giving holiday re~:ess. 
The Senate is expected to take at least 1 wo weeks on the bill which cuts some $9 billion in personal income taxes for most Americans, by 1972. The measure also doses so called tax escaping loopholes to give the Treasury some $4.R billion in new taxes. 
A similar measure has passed 

the House. While the subject 
matter is the same. the reform 
approach in the House bill dif­
fers signifil:antly in several key 
sections. 
The House bill would cost the 

Treasury nearly $9.2 billion 
through its tax cutting route, 
hut revenue would be boosted by $5.2 billion by 1972. 
The House takes up changes in the federal highway aid pro­gram on Tuesday, and will con­tinue examining conglomerate 
business mergers, and pay tele­vision during committee sess­ions. Oltherwise the schedule is routine. 
After returning from the Thanksgiving recess Dec. I, Con­gress must pass long delayed ap­propriations bills to run most government agencies for the fis­cal year that started July I. 
Only two of the money bills have been passed and signed by President Nixon, and the major ones remain, including the de­fense appropriation measure of $7 5 billion. Since July I, the government has been operating on stop gap authority pending congressional passage of the fin­ance measures. 
Song-and-dance spices SMC meal 
Last night's dinner attendants were unexpectedly treated to some old-time banjo pickin' and ivory tick lin' that brought all to their feet, clapping, singing and dancing. 
Saga Foods had brought the Village Inn banjo and piano duo from the South Bend restaurant to entertain during dinner in the Red Garter and Your Father's Mustache manner. The enthusiasm of the first few table dancers and quasi-strippers quickly caught on as the student charleston and polka experts took over the aisles. One particularly limber underclassman did a Vaudeville rubber-eg act on table-top. 
The old Irish favorites were 
the hits of the evening "When 
Irish Eyes Are Smiling," "Peg of My Heart" and "The Notre Dame Victory March" were played for the chorus of 500 girls. Chorus lines and Irish jig circles were spotted East and West in the hall. 

The students surprised themselves with their enthusiasm, particularly the seniors. Said one, 'This is out-of-sight. In my three years I've never seen anything like this." 
One freshman commented, "This is the greatest thing I've seen here yet." One junior said, "There's an awful lot of steam blowing off here." 
Another enthusiastic freshman summed up her impressions, "A good time was 
had by all." 

Midwest Athletic 517N. HillSt. 
Only 7 blocks from campus 2329550 
All prices reduced on /Iockey Sticks and Helmets Also Conl'crse Baskctbalf Shoe\' 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1969 PAGE 7

7/IE OBSERJJER. 

CYO has booming start, rival SLLAB formed 
A demonstration was hl'ld yc~tl·rd<IY. in front of the Sacred Ill-art Chun.:h. hy a newly form­ed campus CYO group. The tiHel' pickets marched outside the church during the eleven o'dod; Mass. The group advo­cates "a return to till' Chun:h thl· way (;od's annointl'd repre­sentatives set it up." Led hy their Vil-e-President. B1ll Locke. the protestors announced that 
Apollo 12 return 
scheduled today 
SI'A<T Ct-:NTLR, llouston (UPI) Yankee Clipper and thl· Apollo 12 moonmen yesterday hurtled toward splashdown. playing rock 'n roll records and joking with the Ol'l'an recovery for~.:e to he on target he~.:ausc "we have energy ro1 only one pass." 
Charles "Pctl'" Conrad. Alan 1.. Bean and Richard 1'. Gordon were dw: to return to earth at 2:5X p.m. I'ST today in lhl· Soul h Pacific near A meril·an Samoa wiH·rc weather was dearing aftl'r winds up to ~S mill'S an hour during the final p1d.. up rehearsal. 
Passing the halfway mark home at 3:10p.m. yesterday, till' lunar trio had 127,540 miks to go. At that time the Clippl'l was traveling at 3,350 mph with speed ~.:onstantly Increasing in the pull of earth's gravity until it reaches 24.X~3 mph when it slices into the upper fringes of the earth's gravity. 
Apollo II. man's first landing on the moon, excited and enthralled the world more, hut Apollo 12 accomplished infinitely more in the sdentific field. 
Conrad and Belin made a bullseye landing. treked more than a mill' through the lunar dust to a robot c;nuera ship landl·d two year~ ago and set up a nuclear pPwcred laboratory whic:h one scientist said wuld expand man's knowledge of the moon a million times. They had one fina! color telecast during the evening when they were also to set another lunar first by holding a "press conference" with newsmen radioing qul'stions from the llouston mission control center. 
Shortly after awakening Sunday Conrad, Bean and Cordon sent a message to the carrier liSS llornet addressed to Rear Adm. Donald C. Davie, commander of the recovery fleet. It read: 
"Dear Red Dog: Apollo 12 with three tailhookers on hoard expect rewvery ship to make it PIM pinpoint recovery as we have energy for only one pass. Signed Pete. Di~.:k and AI." 
Then they radioed that it was now "Pete (;ordon's recreation time aboard the Yankee Clipper." 
"What is the flick in the wardroom tonight?" (;ordon asked. "\\'l' got one rallL'U 'Lost in Span·'," communicator hi (;ibso~ replied. The asl ronauls then turned on a record. "!ley. Lit lie Woman," with lhc lyrics, "You've (;ot to Collll' Into My World and Leave Your World Behind." 
A · . Old
QUJck Trip to Town jennifer's 
119 W. Colfax 
I hl'Y wne "only the vanguard" for thl· campus revolution to 
(Ollie. 
The CY0 (Christian Youth Organization) received varying dL·gn'l'S of react ion during their protc~t. Bernie Ryan, Spiritual Co-ordinator and Sergeant-at­Arms, revealed that many older people supported their position, while it was mainly the younger churchgoers who voiced disap­proval of the demonstration. llowever, the group has grown to indude over two hundred llll'lllhers of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's c:ommunity. 
Thl· Notre Dame group does not have a charter with the Na­tional (hristian Youth Organiza­tion. hut Ryan expressed hope that surh a charter would be soon forthcoming. 
The demonstration consisted of only three of the four officers of the organization. Locke, Ryan, and Secretary-Treasurer, John Zimmerman, revealed that 
Preston Love got his B.S. In Economics In 1966, then trained at IBM. 
Preston Love's idea for the Iowa State Department of Public Instruction is a good example of how IBM marketing representatives work. He calls on key Iowa commissioners daily and is often asked how data processing can solve a problem. He studies the problem in depth and comes up with a solution. 
Showing what Isn't there "One day they asked me how to show grade and high school kids what computers can do," says Preston. "Without spending the money for installing a computer." His solution: use remote terminals 

''I'm helping kids learn to use computers:' 
their president, Phil Kukielski, was leading a rosary at the grot­to late Saturday night and caught a severe cold. 
All three demonstrators felt thai they, as the fathers of the organization, should act as the vanguard of the protest. Ryan stated, "We feel that the silent majority of students on the cam­pus support us, but be~.:ause of respect for the proper authority, they do not picket. Once again we seize the ear trumpet for the great silent majority." 
The CYO has several projects planned for the school year. At St. Mary's, an Altar and Rosary Society is being formed. The group will also sponsor a sock­hop between Thanksgiving and Christmas vacations. Offering the alternative of good, clean fun, the CYO hopes to promote a "return to the days of Coke and potato chips." 
The CYO is also making an effort to obtain new members 

$25 Deposit 
for the Senior Class Fellows pro­gram. Several of the persons to be contacted were: Paul Harvey, Art Linkletter, Norman Vincent Peale, and Dale Carnegie. This could take some t!me, because the group is working through the 
p-roper established channels. 
A rival group has been formed in protest of the CYO, which calls itself SLLAB (Student Lea­gue for Liberalization of Ameri­can Behavior). The CYO con­siders SLLAB, "not only copy­
,...-------------::-------=~-------------.
Sign-up for 

CoHon Bowl Trip 
Open to ND and SMC students 
Tonight 6:30 PM Rathskellar 
· 
1 

hooked up by telephone cable to a time­sharing computer in Chicago. (Time­sharing means that many terminals can use the computer at once.) 
Letting kids run the world "To make the children's work lively," says Preston, "I suggested they play simulation games with the computer. "To play one, for instance, the children break up into groups. Each group governs a 'country.' And the computer gives them problems to solve, like depressions, wars, bumper crops. "It's a fascinating way to learn about computers," says Preston. "And typical of the kind of problems I solve in my job.'' 
Visit your placement office Preston's is just one example of the kinds of opportunity in marketing at IBM. For more information, visit your placement office. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
IBM 
cats, but a radical leftist group 
of unkempt malcontents." 
Other activities planned by the CYO include: the circulating of a petition supporting Pope Paul, a rally to preserve the field­house, and campaigns to restore the pulpit, promote the use of holy water, turn the altar a­
round-the-way it belongs, and advocate the posthumous excom­munication of Cardinal Rampola, a revisionist promin­
ent in the early 1900's. 



·---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 
PAGE 8 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1969 
•

Plan functions to close ann 1versary 

Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana, will formally conclude its !25th Anniversary year on December 6 and 7, 1969, with a series of artistic, theatrical, and religious func­tions which will be open to the public. Numerous well known dignitaries and alumnae will par­ticipate in the official closing proceedings which will end with a convocation at which honorary degrees will be conferred by the College. 
While there will be no admis­sion charge for tickets to any of the planned events, there are only a limited number available. These may be reserved by calling 219 -284-4934. 
The initial function of the special observance will be a per­formance of the student produc­tion of Romeo and Juliet which is slated for Saturday evening, December 6 at 8:30p.m. EST in 0' Laughlin Auditorium. The cast, composed of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students, will be directed by Robert Speaight, noted British actor, author, and lecturer. 
On Sunday morning, Decem­ber 7 at 10:30 a.m. EST, the Anniversary Mass will be celebra­ted by The Most Reverend Leo Pursley, Bishop of Fort Wayne­South Bend Diocese. The Mass will be sung in the Church of Our Lady of Loretto on campus. A highlight of this event will be the premier performance of a special Mass composed specifi­cally for Saint Mary's Anniver­sary ovservance by Norman Delio Joio, nationally prominent composer. This composition is perhaps the first significant Mass created by a major composer using the English version of the Liturgy. Utilizing a 160-voice mixed chorus and brass choir, Delio 1oio has used a voicing and instrumentation which he select­ed specifically to fit the acoustics of the Church of Our Lady of Loretto. 
Following a luncheon in the College dining hall, ceremonial participants will proceed to O'Laughlin Auditorium where, following a fully robed academic procession, a special convocation will begin at 2:30p.m. EST. The convocation address will be delivered by Reverend Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, president of the University of Notre Dame. 
At the convocation, honorary degrees will be conferred by Saint Mary's College upon a number of well known persons from widely diverse walks of life. Among those to be honored will be Reverend Hesburgh; Mrs. Michael Mansfield, wife of the senate majority leader and a Saint Mary's alumnae from Washington, D.C.; Mrs. Margo Hoff, nationally famous artist and Saint Mary's artist-in-resi­dence for 1969; Robert Speaight, British actor and direc­tor; Robert Podesta, assistant 




Announcing a Giant Sale on Classical Records 
at the 
Notre Dame Bookstore 
·---------------------------------------------------------------­
an alumna of Saint Mary's from Youngstown. Ohio, who has led an active life in service to her city. church, and alma mater. 
A I 25th Anniversary art exhibit featuring photos and other historical memorabilia will also be displayed in the College's Moreau Art Callery on campus 
Saint Mary's College, located on the northern perimeter of South Bend, Indiana, is one of the Nation's oldest Catholic, women's liberal arts colleges hav­ing been founded in 1844. It currently has one of the largest boarding enrollments of any similar college in the country and is well embarked upon a program of coeducational cooperation with the neighbor­ing University of Notre Dame. The program enables students of both institutions to enroll in courses and use some of the facilities on the other campus. At present the porgram is open to sophomore, junior, and senior students with the Speech and Drama Department functioning as the first fully cooperative area. 
In othe; ways both institu­tions are able to refine their programs and make more econo­mical usc of their facilities and fa c u !ties by means of the coeducational cooperation. Saint Mary's College no longer offers graduate courses in education but specializes in undergraduate elementary and secondary edu­cation courses for students from both institutions. All graduate level courses arc available through the University of Notre Dame. 
Top-level administrators of Saint Mary's College and Notre Dame feel that the cooperative effort, especially without the loss of identity on the part of either institution, seems to be especially appropriate at a time when funds for institutions of higher education are so limited. 

Nixon intends to fight Immediate fax cuts 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Treasury Secretary David 
M. Kennedy said yesterday the Nixon administration will fight any effort to increase or speed up the tax cut features of the tax reform bill set for debate in the Senate today. 
Kennedy said the 
administration can accept a long 
range revenue loss for the bill, 
but that any tax relief which 
takes effect before 1972 would 
simply add to inflation and push 
up the cost of living. 
The Senate Finance 
Committee's version of the 
House passed tax reform act 
would reduce federal income by 
$3.4 billion in 1974 but it would 
increase revenue by $6.4 billion 
next year. 
"I hope on the floor of the 
Senate that they will not alter 
the bill, as it was reported out of 
the committee, in the deferral of 
the tax relief measures for 
individuals," Kennedy said in 
UP! "Washington Window" 
interview. 
"We are quite concerned that 
we might have changes on the 
floor of the Senatc ... and we arc 
trying to resist those changes," 
he said. 
"Othchcrwisc, there will be a 
hcavy revenue short fall in the 
immediate future, and we
Icannot afford that fr0:n thc standpoint of our anti-inflationary program," he added. 
Kennedy made these other points: 
It may be necessary to give the Federal Reserve "standby power" to regulate consumer credit if a proliferation of credit cards and other credit devices threaten to defeat efforts to control inflation. 
The administration considers extension of the income surtax at a reduced rate of 5 per cent for the first half of the next year to be vital to the fight against inflation; but it has no plans to request an additional extension. 
A recession is highly unlikely anytime soon although "we may have a temporary period of adjustment." 
Some a·dditional unemployment may result from efforts to cool the overheated economy but, "I don't think t h c re will be serious unemployment. I think it (intlation control) can be done without that." 
Interest rates can be expected to decline from their present record levels when inflation cases but "it will be a long time" bcforc they drop to rates that were in effect three or four years ago. 


I 
l 
PAGE 9 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1969 THE O&fUIIER. 
Agnew hits protest disrupting other's rights 
NEW YORK (UPI)-Vice Pres­ident Spiro T. Agnew declared Sun day that demonstrations, even when nonviolent, "cannot be condoned" if they interfere with the rights of others. 
Agnew made the statement in a guest editorial written at the invitation of Life magazine to explain his reasons for speaking out in recent weeks against war protestors and the news media. 
The vice president said he was not acting to accomodate the 
White House but because "like the great silent majority, I had had enough. 
"I had endured the didactic inadequacies of the garrulous in silence, hoping for the best but witnessing the worst for many 
•Notre Dame 10' issue statement 
(continued from page I) 
all of its other activities, exactly responsibilty for all its actions. as helping execute a murder is A moral decision without the same as pulling the trigger. action is passive compliance. We Our complicity with this system view the University not as an demands that we take institution to perpetuate the 
ARVN stops attack 
SAIGON (UPI)-South 
Vietnamesc Forces yesterday 
turned back an attack ncar the 
Bu Prang Special Forces camp 
killing at least 20 Communist 
soldiers while suffering only 
light t casultics themselves. 
Bovernment spokesmen said 
more than 600 Communists 
were killed last week along. a 30 
mile stretch of the Cambodiand 
border, most of them around Bu 
Prang and its sister outpost of 
Due Lap. 
They said last week's fighting 
was the heaviest in the region in 
15 months and "thwarted a 
North Vietnamese attempt to 
seize a large chunk of Quany 
Due Province." 
In yesterday pre-dawn battle, 
about I ,000 yards northeast of 
Ou Prang and 112 miles 
north cast of Saigon, the 
Communists attacked a South 
Vietnamese force in an attempt 
to overtake the Bu Prang 
outpost. 
Spokesmen said the 
government forces hurled back 
the assault killing at least 20 of 
the attackers. South Vietnamese 
casualties were described as 
light. 
Near Saigon, an American 
helicopter accidentally fired a 
rocket into allied troops 
regrouping Saturday after a 
battle killing one South 
Vietnamese soldier and injuring 
33, including a battalion 
commander and two U.S. 
advisors. 
The incident occurred about 
50 miles northeast of Saigon 
near Xuan Loc, headquarters of 
HHH -stop sending 
troops to combat 
LOS ANGELES (UI'I) Former Vice President Hubert Humphrey said Saturday he hoped President Nixon would stop sending draftees into combat in the Vietnam War. IIumphrey, here for a meeting of the trustees of Brandeis University, said that since Nixon has said the U.S. is going to get out of Vietnam "the sooner we do so the better." 
"When you send young men over to Vietnam now, after the highest official in this land has said we're going to get out, it's asking a terrible price of them and I wold hope that we would quit sending selectees and draftees into combat in South Vietnam," he said. 
"I think North Vietnam would like to keep us there, knowing that we do not seek a military solution," the former 
vice president said. 
the government's 18th Infantry Division. The division had just fought a 30 minute clash with Communist troops during which they required helicopter support. 
The choppers arrived and one of them fired a 2.75 inch rocket which struck a tree and ricocheted into the allied unit, spraying shrapnel through its ranks. 
The incident was placed under investigation. 
In their announcement of the Communist deaths ncar the Cambodian border, government spokesmen said 292 of them we rc killed ncar Due Lap. Another 293 were slain around Bu Prang. 
evils of society but as one which must work for their eradication. Such a decision on our part engendered a need for action, regardless of the fear of punitive measures. In our notices of expulsion and suspension, we were accused of "obstructing the life of the University;" we did not obstruct that life, but rather affirmed the life of a Christian University. 
Storm-unlucky 13 threatens Panama 
MIAMI (UPI) -Hurricane 
Martha drifted slowly toward 
the Panama Canal Zone Sunday, 
buffeting the coast with gale 
force winds and high tides. 
She is the first hurricane to 
have a name beginning with the 
letter "M" since the weather 
bureau began naming storms in 
I 9 53. Tropical storms have 
occasionally been given names 
beginning with letters beyond 
the 13th in the alphabet. 
months," Agnew said. Agnew warned that "frighten­ing forces have been set in mo­tion as the public has become conditioned to precipitate action rather than quiet discussion. "The announced decision of the more extreme antiwar groups to continue and to esca­late their disruptive activities proves this," he said. Agnew call­ed the Vietnam Moratorium "not only negative in content but brutally counter productive" because it encouraged the North Vietnamese and undermined the President's policies. The vice president said the response from across the coun­try to his views "has been both extensive and gratifying" and af­firmed the importance of his of­fice. Agnew said he made his speech in New Orleans Oct. I 9 attacking leaders of the Vietnam Moratorium because "I believe-
and believe deeply-that, while the right of lawful dissent is sacred, the purpose behind any civil dissent is subject to quest­ion." 
Agnew said there were "im­portant distinctions" between various kinds of nonviolent civil disobedience. 
"The nonviolent breaking of a discriminatory law enforcing seg­regation in a restaurant, later declared unconstitutional, has a retrospective justification," he said. 
.. "But the nonviolent breaking of a law unrelated to discrimina­tion for which redress is sought, such as lying in the street to block traffic as a protest against a denial of equal employment opportunity, cannot be condon­ed. The rights of others not in­volved in the dispute to their freedom of locomotion are thereby disrupted," he said. 
~--------------------------------------------~ 

To select Bowl queen 
With the Irish in the bowl picture for the first time in 45 years, plans arc currently being made for participation in some of the traditional pre-game and post-game activities. One of the more immediate items involves the selecttion of a beauty queen to represent the university at the pre-game social festivities and the half-time show at the game. 
Notre Dame as the visiting team has been asked to choose a girl who will be called "Miss Notre Dame" to sit on the court comprised of the Cotton Bowl Queen from the host team, and 
the seven "princesses" from the other Southwest Conference schools. The Queen will be ex peeled to attend all the activities of the three day Festival with an escort. 
Student Body President Phif McKenna and Student Union head Dennis Clark are leading a 
committee to form a plan for 
the selection of the Queen. It 
has already been decided that a 
St. Mary's girl will be chosen but 
no plans for the basis for the 
choice have been made as yet. 
The committee hopes to form a 
program that would be able to 
make the decision as soon as 
possible since the Cotton Bowl 
Association needs all necessary 
information on the queen soon 
for publicity purposes. 
The Queen will participate in 
a student-group dinner on Dec. 
30, a Cotton Bowl Style Show 
Brunch, and the Official Cotton 
Bowl Student Dance on Dec. 3 I. 
The Queen will ride on the 
float of the Cotton Bowl Court 
in the Cotton Festival Parade. 
She will be presented in a brief 
1 
pre-game ceremony, and will sit with her escort in a special section for the Court. 
OFFICIAL NOTICE 
All Notre Dame Students Planning to Enroll in the PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION COURSES AT SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE During the Spring Semester are Urged to Attend a General Informa­tion Meeting on Monday, December 1st at 7:30 
p.m. in the Memorial library Auditorium. 
Eugene A. Campanale 
Associate Director 
Office of Teacher Preparation 
1110 Memorial library 
Phone: 283-8562 
PAGE10 THE OBSERVER MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1969 
Letters to the Editor 
Apology denied 
Editor: 
As the writer directly respon­sible for Incite!, it is incumbent on me to apologize, at least for not apologizing. To begin with, I would, even now, make no revi­sions, no additions. I make no apologies for either content or method. The content was meant to incite opinion (hence the title, Chris) not to form it. The method was meant to do the same. I had no intention of presenting a dry fact sheet or a rational discourse on who is a racist or who is not. It was genuinely meant, by myself if not by other members of SAR, to cause exactly what it did-­controversy. 
Each point was prefaced by the invocation, "Consider ... " (like y'don't have ta agree with it, Chris). It was in no way meant to be the last word and dogma of SAR. The leaflet even went to the trouble of pointing out that there was not attempt to create "good sides" or "evil sides". I hold to that position now as I did when I wrote it. There is no value judgement attached to either "shooting red­coats in the back" or "shooting pigs," except in the values we have brought with us. I myself, by word, have espoused the philosophy of non-violent action and do not recommend violence to blacks or whites. However, I kn0w (despite what Mr. Wolfe thinks), that we have been raised on a history that winks when the farmers of New England shot redcoats marching in formation (a tactic which happened to break accepted military conven­tions of the time, and please note contemporary infractions of International Law in that contest), and condemns mem­bc::rs of the third world for simi­lar tactics. This attitude has been inculcated by grade school nuns, history books, and movies (e.g. Johnny Tremain by Walt Dis­ney). That kind of childhood indoctrination has never left us. Eldridge Cleaver may be an out­law but so was Thomas Jefferson in the eyes of King George. 
Finally, I must offer some reason why I do not choose to be polite and rational about this business. We, white folks have managed to hide our true feel­ings in intellectual chains. Our calls to rationality are nothing but weapons used to maintain oppression. We couch the racial tension on this campus by a call to rationality and a turn to a judicial system so that no one really has to think about what's happening. We must be polite and cool at all costs or our insular world may be broken up. Last year, Richard Rossie cover­ed up a tense situation by an apology in the name of the student body when two-thirds of that student body did not even agree with him. The incident was forgotten, but nothing has changed. Notre Dame has a his­tory of that kind of cop-Qut, a history of escaping to the sub­urbs, of escaping to white lily 
pads (lily-white pads). 
This country is going to blow into one of the bloodiest racial and genocidal wars history will ever want to record unless white America quits copping out, quits refusing to look into its soul, and quits treating this kind of danger as nothing more than a crude "joke." Chicago, for ex­ample, could blow into some­thing more than an Easter loot­ing parade and white America has erected enough detention camps in the state to house every black person in Illinois (These camps were legalized by the McCarran Act in case of insurrection). Whatever happens, it won't be pretty. I wonder what St. Augustine says about justified genocide, Chris? 
Therefore, I see no point in being cute, polite, or rational. It's about time white folks start rippin' their own covers off and quit believing in a honky-dory university when it's nowhere in sight. Anyone interested in dis­cussing the point may leave a message at 233-3767. Rage on. 
the quotable cracker, 
ken guentert 
Apology expected 
Editor: 
My Dear CPA, 
Ever since I arrived at Notre 
Dame in September. I've noticed that you've been a rather p e rs1stent critic of the Government's and the University's policies. I have been called naive and racist recently because I disagreed with you criticism, but I never once questioned your right to express it. During the Oct. I 5 Moratorium I heard one participant say, "I'm a free man. 
Carlo Ponti's THE TENTH VICTIM Starring Ursula Andress Elsa Martinelli Marcello Mastroianni 
Tonight 
75C Engin. Auditorium 7, 9, 11 
I've got the right to make my own opinions; no one can take away this right, and no one can forcibly impose on me his beliefs if I don't agree with him." I also hold this statement as true. and I 
thought you did too, since the Notre Dame Resistance and the selective conscientious objector amendment seem founded on these concepts. 
However, last Tuesday you went beyond the legitimate bounds of protest. In physically blockading the door of the Placement Bureau, you forcibly denied me the right to form my own opinion and make a choice, thus depriving me of this basic freedom which you yourselves se evidently cherish. By forcibly imposing on rriye your rationale toward Dow and CIA recruiting on campus, without any regard whatsoever as to what I might choose to believe, you invalidated my right to self-determination in the matter simply because I didn't agree with the policy of the CPA. 
My friends, you have proven yourselves inconsistent and hypocritical. Those very rights you demand for the South Vietnamese (self determination, etc.) are thrown out the window when they no longer suit your 

cause. You cry for peace and unity in the world, yet polarize the segments of our own country. You insure your own freedom of opinion, but deny me mine. For this hypocrisy I denounce you, and I demand (though I do not expect) an apology to myself and those other students whose freedom you so callously negated. 
William Kane 
121 Zahm 
Closer understanding 
Editor: In the November 21' 1969 Observer Mark David Jones re­plied to criticism of his wearing a pair of pants made from a flag of the United States of America. ln defense of his usin~ a national symbol, Mr. Jones wei­corned the defacing of "any symbol he (the author of the letter of criticism) imagines I hold sacred." Furthermore, Mr. Jones stated "I will help him." Thus, the two, according to Mr. Jones, would "be closer to un­derstanding each other." Therefore, Mr. Jones, I, as one who does not understand you, ask that this offer be extended to me. I choose your hair Mr. 

architecture, I am readily avail­able and equipped with two pairs of scissors. At your con­venience, let us proceed onward toward a "closer understanding of each other." 
Anxiously, 
Scott W. Braley, '70 
157 Cavanaugh 
Wolff pack 

Editor: 
In referen'i!e to Mr. De Sapia's 
commentary of November 20, 
1969: 
" The 'killing' by Dow Chem­

ical is another matter in itself. 
The issue now is whether the 
groups of protesters had the 
right to block the entrance to 
the placement bureau because of 
their disagreement with Dow." 
And so one more revolution 

bites the dust, more in frus­
tration than in failure. Instead of 
indicting Dow, the concerned 
students have now indicted 
themselves. And in so doing, 
they have continued to justify 
statements as the above, state­
ments of distorted morality 
which only mirror a more dis­
torted v-ision of reality. 
As a pack of Wolffs, much of 

this campus will attack the visi­
ble evil of a blocked entrance, 
but, conciously or not, will not 
attack the distant evil of a com­
pany's, and a country's, blocked 
conscience. 
!f one is of the opinion 
that The System is worth saving, 
then the only workable solution 
is a non-violent one. Otherwise, 
the morally myooic statements 
as Mr. De Sap,io'~ will continue 
to project on to the media a 

blurred, and, someday, unfor­. tunately, a bloodshot image of the world. Sincerely, 
J. Dwyer 428 Morrissey 
Tough stand lauded 

Editor: 
The incidents during the inter­

views this past Tuesday have 
prompted me to write what has 
long been on my mind. 
In this community there is a group that today denied many others their civil rights. Father Riehle, in turn, imposed Fr. Hes­burgh's excellent "tough stand," and now several of these hypo­crites are supposedly not mem­hers of this University. My only hope now is that Frs. Riehle and Hesburgh, and the others who will be faced with the forth­coming problem of what to do -with these students, will stand-tough and enforce the action 
taken that afternoon. 
Because of their actions Tues­

day, my disgu~t and disrespect 
for these students has deepened, 
and my love for my freedom, 
my country, and my university 

has grown, and 1 want all three 
·~~~iS~p~o~n~sioirie~d~b~y~E~n~g~in~·~S~c~ie~nic~e~S~o~cii~e~t~y~~~~J~o~n:9:·~A~s~a~f~e:ll:o~w~s~tu~d~e~n~t~o~f~~~~t~t~kgre~ne~!
1 Hypocrites? I would call one who doesn't practice what he preaches a hypocrite of the low­
est class. Sincerely, 
since 1891 downtown South Bend Jessop M. McDonnell 
Splros Men's Shop 
120 Alumni 

Clothing by Hart, Shaffner and Marx~ Van Heusen, 
Rights demanded Pendleton and Jantzen 
teresting, including as it did, on WNDU, an interview with the noted Father Riehle of Notre 
Dame. the good father announc­ed the suspension and expulsion of several students, in keeping with the famous "fifteen-min­ute" letter of Fr. Hesburgh (a letter which the good president of this university has claimed was not about fifteen minute rules but about "community.") This performance was to be ex­pected-the students had, in fact, violated the rule-but Fr. Riehle's next statement was, to put it mildy, somewhat surpris­ing. He informed the public at large that, although the judicial system set up by the Student Life Council (another creation of the Reverend Hesburgh) was not yet in effect, not having been approved by the Univer­sity's President, he, Fr. Rtrittle, was going to allow the affected students to be tried, etc., under it 
Those of this university com­munity may vaguely remember an i)lcident of last Spring over a magazine called Vacilline. A member of the administration had confiscated said publication illegally, according to the code of rules in the Student Hand­book. When, however, the pub­lishers of this magazine attempt­ed redress, they were informed by Mr. Faccenda that the Judi­cial Code, which everybody thought was in effect, had not yet been approved by Father Hesburgh. 
In short, NOTRE DAME DOES NOT HAVE A JUDICIAL CODE BECAUSE FR. HESBURGH IS TOO BUSY TO "APPROVE" IT. THE STU­DENT LIFE COUNCIL DOES NOT HAVE ANY REAL POW­ER OVER REAL MATTERS Everyone is aware of the essen­tially conservative make-up of the S. L.C., yet Fr. Hesburgh still does not trust it. It is about time the students of this university quit accepting the"gifts" of the administration and demanded their rights. If the S.L.C. does not have the pow.:r to make the judicial code, then the body should be dissolved. If Fr. l-Iesburgh has forgotten the J ud­icial Code, then he should resign, since he is obviously too busy to be the president of this Univer­sity. 
J.H. Sweetland 
The last word 
Editor: 
At last! Notre Dame has found a worthy substitute for Spiro Agnew. Our suggestion for candidate to the Vice-presidency of the United States in 1972: Arthur Pears! 
Yours in fifteen minutes, J.D. No. 493 J.D. No. 596 (Corliss Hayes Anne Gomez Box 203-SMC) 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1969 THE OBSERIIER. PAGE 11 
Final ND basketball scrimmage in ACC Tuesday
by Mike Pavlin 
degree. Only Jackie Meehan is. during the scrimmages and car­when he recovers trom his Observer Sports Editor still troubled by an injured knee. ries a 26.2 scoring average. injury. Last week, he had fluid drained At center is junior John Pleick
It's been a long practice sea­Dee plans to start out with 
from it and he is doubtful for (the entire first team is com­
son, including a week of double first unit against second on Tues­
scrimmage action. posed of juniors) who is also in
sessions, but Tuesday night in day night. Then he has a week to 
For his scrimmages this season double scoring figures. Tom Sin­
the Convo Center at 7:30 prepare for an incredible, 26­
Dec has tried a variety of nott is currently the other guard, schedule, the
Johnny Dee will unveil his game including
match-ups. He began by tring to nosing out senior Mike O'Con­
1969-70 basketball squad. The Sugar Bowl Tournament in New 
even out the talent, then he nell.
scrimmage will be the fifth and Orleans on December 29-30. The 
pitted the first unit against the The man who "wants in" is
last in a series which began last three other tourney teams are: 
second. Either way, the Irish senior John Gallagher. He's seen
October 29th. South Carolina, an excellent 
have shown the explosive offen­only brief action in his varsity team when of
The Fighting Irish open what last year full 
sive potential needed to take up career, but he has proved from
must be one of the toughest sophomores; New Mexico, a 
the Arnzen-Whitmore slack. his high school days in New
schedules in the nation at Minne­perennial Southwest power, and 
Super guard Carr has been as York City to pick-up games in always tough West Virginia.
sota on Monday night, Decem­amazing as ever, averaging 35.2 the Rock to be an exceptional
her 1st. Twelve opponents went to 
points per game and shooting shooter. So far, he has the best
Dec began training camp Wed­post-season tournaments last 55% (floor) and 94% (line). His percentages on the squad: 59%
nesday, October 15th with the year and one, UCLA, won the 
foot is ready and there doesn't from the floor (frosh Dan SHin­
first of seven days of double NCAA. Other tough teams be­
seem to be anything wrong with ski is higher at 60% but has
sessions -6:30 AM and 3:30 sides the brutal Uclans are: Ken­his shooting eye either. taken only ten shots) and I 00% 
PM. lie had two basic problems tucky (Dan Issei is back again),(31-31) from the charity stripe.
facing him. One was graduation Perhaps the most hopeful sign Kansas (one of the nation's loss, that of Bob Arnzen and has been the excellent play of He also has a 22.7 average. powers this year), Villanova Jay Ziznewski seems to have ...
Bob Whitmore, the number two 6-8 Sid Catlett. His sophomore (with Howard Porter), Duquesne and three scorers in school his­statistics and play weren't excep­gotten over the injury which (if the Irish lose this one, Scho­tory; the other was a long injury tional, but this exhibition season forced him to fail the football lastic Sports Ed Terry O'Neil 
list including John Egart, Jack the big man from Washington, physical. The reserve center car­may never go home to Pitts­ries a 14.2 average. Rounding
Meehan, Torn Sinnott, Mike D.C. has played superbly, shoot­burgh again), Michigan State out the second five are O'Con­
O'Connell, Jay Zizncwski, and ing 46% from the floor and (upset the Irish the last two nell (14.0), hustling Jimmy Hin­
Jim Regclcan. And of course averaging 24 ppg. Collis Jones, years), Illinois (can Dee ever for­ga, the Muncie Milkman (14.2),
there was that twice-injured left the only Irishman to play in all get last season's physical ham­foot of captain Austin Carr. games last year, joins Catlett on mering), Marquette (with AI
and sophomore Doug Gemmell Both of Dec's problems seem the first-string front line. Jones McGuire's answer to Austin
(9.5). Meehan figures to get one of the four top spots for his own
to have been solved to a great has been the leading rebounder Carr, Dean Memin'ger), and Day­ton (could be for an NCAA bid). 
long bomb in 'sudden -death' beats OC for Grace ? -St. Ed's 
Grace-St. Ed's 12 Off Campus 6 fired to Rob Voitier for '1. first 
Grace-St. Ed's won the 1969 down on the 1-yard line. On the lntcrhall Football Championship first play of the fourth quarter with a 76 yard TD pass in the Denny Kerrigan plunged over for 
closing minutes of sudden death the score. The run for two was unsuccessful and the game wasovertime. Both teams played well and displayed an impressive deadlocked 6-6. OC's Gene O'Brien and Denny Griffin inter­
amount of sportsmanship. On the first series of downs cepted the next two Jim Griffin 
GE's Joe DcLois intercepted an 
passes, but OC failed to capi­OC pass and returned it 20 yards talize either interception
on as to the OC 20. After being forced 
regulation time expired. ·The back to the 26, GE quarterback lnterhall Playoff rules state that Jim Griffin looped a perfect pass in the event of a tic there will be under heavy pressure to Mike a six minute overtime period. If 
Carmichael for the TD. The con­
both teams fail to score in the version attempt was blocked. On overtime the team with the most the ensuing series OC's John first downs in the game is de­
Drow swept left and for 30 clared the winner.· yards to the GE 29. But GE's OC held a 4-2 edge in first defense stiffened and the first downs at the end of regulation half ended with GE holding a time. A coin flip gave OC posses­6-0 advantage. sion on their 35 as the overtime 
In the second half OC's Rich began. Gaining only 8 yards in Bolini intercepted a Griffin three plays, OC was forced to aerial and returned it 22 yards to punt. The punt rolled dead at the GE 35. From there OC quar­the GE 24. It didn't take long as terback Bill Hasbrook whipped a Jim Griffin rifled a perfect pass pass to Dan Valentino who made over the middle to "Junior" a spectacular catch at the I 0. Freeman. Freeman caught the The following is part of a dampened by this news. Shouts "One guy does not make a However a holding penalty nul­ball at the GE 40, shook off a 
team," said Joan Bartus. "I lified the gain. On fourth down tackler and
story which appeared in the of victory turned to stares of went the remaining 
think LSU has been done a dirty Hasbrook made a fine run but 60 yards for the score and theBaton Rouge, La. Morning silence, and the entire campus 
Advocate on Tuesday morning, seemed dumbfounded. turn. With a team like LSU that was forced out of bounds 4 championship. It was a fitting has the test records in so many inches short of the first down at end to the lnterhall season as GE
November 18. It was sent to us Sees Irish Licking 
areas, you don't overlook it for a the 14. GE immediately fumbled won with their traditional last
by Mr. Henry. J. Ledoux of Joey Morgan, sports editor of one-man show --Archie the ball and OC's Gene O'Brien minute heroics over a great Off­
Baton Rouge. In his letter of the Reveille, had this to say: comment, Mr. Ledoux said, "The Cotton Bowl made a grave Manning." recovered on the 17. Hasbrook Campus team. "Actually this statement is in­error in selecting Notre Dame excusable, and is actually a over LSU. Notre Dame has only 
Four -game hoop scrimmage stats
result of a case of "sour apples" played two teams with winning on LSU's part (the student edi­seasons, Purdue and Southern 
Total Score

tor) part -But does not reflect California. They lost to Purdue 
Player Games FGA FG FG% FTA FT FT% REB AVG Pts. Avg. 
the general attitude. and tied Southern Cal. Notre 
LSU students don't know Dame has more of a name than a Carr (jr.) 4 113 62 55% 18 17 94% 28 7 141 35.2 where the missing elevator went, game. It is going to be the Catlett (jr.) 4 90 41 46% 22 14 64% 48 12 96 24.0 hut they certainly know where biggest humiliation in Notre Egart (so.) 4 22 9 41% 5 4 80% 8 2 22 5.5 
Gemmell (so.) 4 40 17 42% 6 4 66% 17 4.2 38 9.5
the shaft went. Dame history when they play 
Gallagher (sr.) 4 51 30 59% 31 31 100% 28 7 91 22.7
So are the sentiments of Mary Texas in the bowl game. Coach 
Hinga,J. (jr.) 4 47 24 51% 12 9 75% 26 6.5 57 14.2
!lowell, a junior at the univer­Parseghian of Notre Dame plays 
Jones (jr.) 4 99 45 45% 19 15 79% 50 12.5 105 26.2 
sity, who felt LSU was shafted. a bloodthirsty game up until the 
Meehan (jr.) 3 23 7 30"/o 10 7 70% 8 2.6 21 7.0 "We should have been asked last second, even when he's 40 O'Connell (sr.l 4 58 23 40% 11 10 91% 16 4 56 14.0 over Ole Miss," she said. points ahead. Their line is fat Pleick (jr.) 4 55 20 36% 10 7 70% 47 11.8 47 11.7 Disappointment and unbelief and sloppy. The good Catholic Hegelean (so.) 4 48 20 43% 11 9 82% 29 7.2 49 12.2 flooded the LSU campus Mon­brothers of Notre Dame arc go­Ziznewski (sr.l 4 52 22 42% 19 13 68% 41 10.2 57 14.2 2.0
day, as students learned the ing to the bowl for the $300,000 ·Hinga, W. (fr.l 3 6 3 50% 0 0 0 3 1 6 Lucas (fr.) 3 9 2 22% 2 2 100% 2 .6 6 2.0
Fighting Tigers were out of the 
they will receive, hut the beating Silinski (fr.) 3 10 6 60% 1 0 0 5 1.6 12 4.0
howl picture. The high level of 
Sinnott (jr.) 4 37 18 49% 6 3 50"/o 20 5 39 9.7
they'll get will not equate thespirit reached at the Mississippi humiliation they will face at tlw
Stale slaughter was suddenly TOTALS 
8 760 349 45.9% 183 145 79% 845 105
hands of Texas." 


THE OBSERVER MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1969
PAGE 12 
Sunshine and warmth but defense paramount 

by Mike Pavlin Observer Sports Editor cutting left, and then back right cornerback Ralph Stepaniak fits the game, losing the ball at the
fumbles, coming at the end of to scoce at 12:57. all day. Hitting Longnecker ND 18. Here Kelly, who playedSomething went wrong some­the third period and the beginn­For most of the quarter, how­twice, he drove the Fah.:ons to the finest game of his careerwhere. True to my wildest ing of the fourth, put the de­ever, the offense stalled and Irish the N D 27 and then tried to hit with II tackles, and anotherdreams, the sun came out, the fense in holes with the score fans were reduced to nail-biting Jennings deep. Walt Patulski junior, Bob Neidert, took atemperature rose, and all seemed 13-3 Notre Dame. Led by junior while watching a Falcon offense jarred his arm, however, and hand. With third-and-one at theready for an offensive show last linebacker Tim Kelly, however, which seemed continually on the Mike Kadish picked off the ·nine, Kelly nailed Parker, whoSaturday. But mistakes crippled the Irish allowed only a Dennis verge of breaking loose. To begin errant pass. had rolled right, for a seven-yardNO's second-half offense and the Leuthauser field goal of 37 yards and preserved the victory. with, Ellis Later the a loss. Then on fourth down, Bax­Irish barely escaped with a 13-6 Clarence saved a in period, great
touchdown on the ensuing kick­catch by Longnecker brought ter returned to the contest,win over· the Air Force The game began as if the de­off when he forced high-flying rolled left, and was dumped for
Academy. fense wouldn't have to do a the Falcons to the Irish 40. 
Falcon Ernie Jennings out of Tackle Mike McCoy then an eight-yard loss by Neidert.
That Notre Dame won this thing all day long as ND moved game to finish with an g:1-1 sea­69 yards to score the first time bounds after he had run back partially blocked a 58-yard field The Irish weren't out of the the kick 37 yards. goal attempt by Leuthauser, woods yet, however, as a puni­
son's log was largely due to a de­in possession of the ball. At the fense which was at its toughest Air Force 39, Denny Allan Usmg quick crossing patterns which was in his range since he tive drive ended at the N D 34 when it had to be. Two crucial capped the drive by going right, Baxter succeeded in giving Iris!-knocked one over from around when Mike Crotty fumbled a 
that distance last year. Theismann pass. Jennings caught Third-down passes from Joe a Baxter pass for 12-yards and 
Theismann to Allan (2) and Tom DeOrio blasted for eight, but Gatewood helped NO build a here the defense stiffened again. long drive from the Irish I 0. Kelly knocked down a pass and 
Scott Hempel moved in when Mike Zikas dropped Baxter for the drive stalled and made it no gain. Leuthauser's field goal I 0-0 with a 22-yard field goal made it 13-6. early in the second quarter. After four punts, Notre Dame 
Baxter was unable to connect finally caged the Falcons by with Jennings, but hit Long­engineering an old-fashioned, necker often enough to get on sock-it-to-'em, three-yards-and­
the scoreboard via an 18-yard a-cloud-of-dust drive to run out field goal by Leuthauser, but not the clock. With 5:03 left and the before Hempel had added ball at the Irish 42, Theismann another three-pointer of his own called on Allan six times, full­from the 15. The Irish scoring back Bill Barz four times, and drive had begun back at the N D halfback Andy Huff (subbing for I 5, but Theismann got 60 of the the injured Ed Ziegler) twice. intervening yards in two plays. ND ground out three first First he faked an option play, downs, two coming on fourth dropped back and hit Gatewood down situations. Theismann who had run a deep, deep hook. himself fell on the ball for a 
The beautifully executed play one-yard loss as the clock ran covered 33 yards. Theismann out. then shifted through the Falcons 
The Irish really didn't play for 27 yards on a keeper down 
that badly, getting 400-plus to the AF 13. yards total offense, but mistakes The half-time stats showed an enabled Air Force to keep the ND domination. Jennings had no pressure on. The Irish lost 3-4 receptions, and Baxter was 7-20 
fumbles and had two passes in­through the air. But the Irish 
tercepted. offense, which churned up 293 Despite their seeming inability 
yards total offense in the half, to cover Longnecker (nine catch­ran out of steam in the third es for 114 yards), the secondary period. allowed only 13 completions in While ND could gather only 37 attempts, and just two to 42 total offensive yards, Baxter Jennings. Soph Ellis made began to move the Falcons. With several fine saves and did a good halfback Curtis Martin out with overall job on the fleet flanker an early-game knee injury, full­(Ernie beat him deep once but Air Force quarterback Gary Baxter (18) finds his way blocked by Irish defensemen Mike McCoy (77) back Jim DeOrio took up the dropped the ball). And against and Bob Neidert (88). In the background are Falcons Tom McKiernnan (68) and George Ray! (55). running duties and began finding the run, Bob Olson (I 5 tackles) running room inside. Falcon re­and McCoy ( 12) were their usual serve qb Bob Parker entered the devastating selves, leading me game and hit Jennings, who had further to believe that it would
The stats -once again in Top Ten 
eluded two men, with a 22-yard be better for Notre Dame to face 
Air Force Notre Dame pass. Texas (now No. l thanks to 12 24 RUSHING ATT NET YDS TO From the Irish 46, Darryl 
Michigan, and eat your heart out
Baxter 2
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 12 24 -8 0 Haas punted, but Ed Gulyas Woody Hayes) in the Cotton
Parker 3Attempts Rushing 28 77 
-~ ~ fumbled-for the second time in Bowl.
Martin 2
Net Yds Rushing 71 270 DeOrio
Passes Attemp~ 37 21 17 7 Passes Completed 13 11 Jennings ~ ~ Irishmen .set four records
1 Johnson 3 1 0Passes Had Intercepted 1 2 
According to as yet unofficial

NET YDS PASSING 159 144 passes, one completion, and 16 
PASSING TD figures, Notre Dame individuals
Total Number of Plays 65 98 ATT COMP YDS yards a game passing on the 
Baxter 34 12 137 0 have broken four season records
TOTAL OFFENSE YDS 230 414 average would have gotten Theis­Interceptions 2 1 Parker ~~ 1 ' and tied one during 1969. Scott 
mann three other marks; lntllrcept Return Yds 24 0 RECEIVING Ill() YDS TD Hempel ran up a string of 30 Hempel missed his own standard Times Punted 10 5 Johnson 1 5 o consecutive PAT's this year. 
of 45 PAT's in a year by four;
PUNTING AVE 32.7 35 Jennings 
2 34 O Quarterback Joe Theismann par-Bob Olson's 137 tackles missed
Punts Returned 3 6 
Longneeker 9 114 0 ticipated in 308 offensive plays. 
the mark by three; and Tom
Punt Return Yds 15 46 MacGhee 1 6 
0 Safety /Cornerback Clarence Ellis
Kickoffs Returned 3 3 Gatewood hauled in eight TO
NOTRE DAME 
broke the mark for Passes­
Kickoff Return Yds 72 62 passes, one shy of the record. 
Broken-Up. The young soph was
Times P enalized 1 1 RUSHING ATT NET YDS TO On the Notre Dame all-time 
YDS PENALIZED credited with three against the
5 5 Allan 20 95 1 I is t s, Theismann is 8th in 
Times Fumble~l.-ost 0-0 Falcons and wound up with 12,
4-3 Huff 15 59 0 attempts, 7th in completions, 
Barz 17 61 0 one better than the old standard. 
2nd in percentage, 8th in TDAir Force Academy 0 3 0 3 6 43 Bill Etter, the Mad Scrambler,
Theismann 21 0 passes, !lth in interceptions, !lth
Notre Dame 7 6 0 0 13 
Yoder 4 12 0 accounted for the other new re­
in passing yards, 7th in total
SCORING 
PASSING ATT COMP YDS TO cord as he made his Average
NO: ALLAN, run 39 yards (Hempel kick) offensive plays, and 6th in total
Theismann 21 11 144 0 
Gain Per Rush mark stand up.
NO: HEMPEL, field goal, 22 yards RECEIVING NO YDS TO offensive yardage. Gatewood is 
Sitting out the final two con­
NO: HEMPEL, field goal, 25 yards Gatewood 7 102 0 IOth in pass catches, 9th in AF: LEUTHAUSER, field goal, 28 yards Allan 2 35 0 yards, and tied for 5th in TD
tests, he ended up with 310 AF: LEUTHAUSER, field goal, 37 yards Crotty 1 3 0 yards in 29 carries, a I 0.7 aver­pass receptions. Hempel's PAT Yoder 1 4 0 age. Theismann tied a "negative" 
conversion percentage of !l6-94 
PUNTING mark by throwing 16 intercep­
NO YDS for 91 .6% is a record pace,
Haas 10 32.7 PUNTING NO YDS tions this year. 
slightly ahead of the old record,PUNT RETURNS NO YDS deArrieta 2 33 The Irish came very close to a 
91.4%.
Bassa Yoder 3 37
1 2 fl.:>ck of other records: two 
Smith PUNT RETURNS NO YDS
1 4 MattaIa Stepaniak 3 13
1 9 KICKOFF RETURNS Gulyas 3 33
NO YDS Jennings KICKOFF RETURNS NO YDS
2 56 DeOrio Crotty 2 50
1 16 NO YDS
INTERCEPT RETURNS Huff 1 12 1 15
Leimbach INTERCEPT RETURNS NO YDS Bays 1 9 Kadish 1 0 






