
VOL. Ill, No. 77 Serl'itr• tr.e f'.'c•tre ftame and St. Jv.ary's College Community MONDAY. FEBRUARY 10, 1969 
Committee to study confiscation 
by TED PRICE 
The Student Lue Council was called into emergency session yesterday by University 

President Theodore  Hesburgh,  
esc, in  response to  a telegram  
sent  to  him  by  the  

seven-member delegation from the assembly Saturday in LaFortune. 

At the close of the executive session of the Student Life Council, Dean William B. Lawless of the Law School, the Council's chairman issued the following statement: 
"The Student Life Council convened today at 2 p.m. and formed, in special session, until II p.m. this evening to consider all the University events which have occured in the past several days. s Various witnesses were heard in open session and thereafter the Counc;J met in executive (closed) session. In order to obtain a comprehensive review of all facts surrounding the past several days the Council has created a subcommittee of six of its members who will be appointed equally from the student, faculty, and administration sectors. It was agreed that the jurisdiction of 
the subcommittee would not overlap existing procedures for administrative and judicial 
action. The Council will meet 
again  in  a  regular  session  
Tuesday  at  4  p.m.  in  the  
Continuing  Education  Center.  

Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, President of the University, at 
the invitation of the Student Life Council, appeared at the executive session and assured the 
Council that neither he nor any of his administrative officers encouraged or requested police 
intervention in any of the events of the past several days. It is understood that Fr. Hesburgh 
will issue a formal statement in this regard tomorrow morning."Dean Lawless said that the 
members of the committee will be designated by the individual sectors in caucus this morning.
The subcor'rlmittee could conceivably begin action this
afternoon. 
The subcommittee's purpose will be the formulation of an official history of the events surrounding the Pornography 
and Censorship Conference, and attendant recommendations for action to the Council as a whole. 
The telegram had originally requested a meeting with H esb urgh and Philip J. Faccenda, his special assistant and a lawyer. However, Fr. Hesburgh said that he had referred the matter to the SLC' because he felt that "this type of problem was one of the reasons that it was formed." 


Earlier in the day, the Council and other University officials 
had traveled to the South Bend Police Headquarters to view a closed screening of "Kodak 
Ghost Poems," the film confiscated Friday by St. Joseph County deputies. Before the 
movie was shown, Mr. Faccenda 
emphasized that the showing 
was to enable the SLC to more 
fully understand the issues 

·surrounding it. ' Immediately after the session 
was called to order and the roll taken, Prof. Peter Michelson, one of the delegates from Saturday's assembly, attempted to be recognized. The SLC
h . D Will' 
c arrman, can Jam 8. Lawless of the Law School 
. f d M · h h

In orme 1c e1son t at although SLC meetings are open to all members of the Universitycommunity and the press, no non-members were recognized 
without a suspension of the rules. At this, all but two members of the delegation left the meeting. 
Michelson said later that since the delegation's telegram to Fr. Hesburgh had asked for only a meeting with him and Mr. Faccenda, he "was a little bit confused when I found myself in the SLC'" Apparently he had not been informed of the decision to bring the matter to the SLC. 
Several minutes later, the 
Council voted to invite the 
delegation to attend the meeting 
with "privileges of the floor." 
Since the delegation had left the Kellogg enter, a subcommittee composed of Prof. John Houck, Student Body President Richard Rossie, and Prof. James Shilts was formed to extend the 

Council's invitation. 
After the delegation returned to the SLC meeting, the first order of business was the reading of a chronology of the pertinent events of the Pornography and Censorship Conference up to the seizure of "Kodak Ghost Poems." The chronology, never adopted by the SLC as an official report, had been written by Mr. Faccenda, who is the Council's secretary, and Student Union Academic Commissioner John Mroz. 
The covering statement to the chronology stated that it contained "matters within the personal knowledge" of the authors who were presenting it "because they believe that the facts ... should be known to the University Community." 
There was only minor revision of the report until the final section dealing with the events of last Friday was discussed. During this phase of the meeting, the Council heard testimony from a number of witnesses. 
Most of the discussion centered on the meeting of Friday noon in LaFortune and the subsequent attempt to screen "Kodak Ghost Poems," which culminated in its seizure by County deputies. Witnesses were most concerned over the fact that at no time during the seizure operation did anyone display a warrant nor did the deputies identify themselves. Senior David Kahn said that for all the students knew at the ti rne the plainclothesmen could have been thieves. Others charged excessive violence in the raid saying that the usc ,'}f mace and other alleged assaults were unprovoked. 
Prof. Michelson, who said later that he "sensed that the Council was becoming impatient," called the report 

McNamara guilty; Suspended for seven days 
by JOHN HALEY . 
The "'tudent Judicial Board students taking part in a sit-in yesterday declared Senior Marty demonstration can be brought to McNamura guilty of "impeding trial by the Judicial Board and the freedom of the University convicted for their actions. comrr:unity" at the CIA sit-in Bob Rigney, McNamara's last November, and sentenced defense counsel, immediately him to suspension for one week. announced his plans to appeal 
The conviction was significant the case. in that it.sets a precedent that Senior Bob Narucki brought 
Judicial rationale 
Verdict: Guilty, unanimous. 

We feel that the University extended a privilege to the CIA to hold interviews on campus. By virtue of this agreement it then became the right of interested students to meet with these recruiters. It is the policy of the CIA, however, to avoid any situations on a campus "which might contribute to disruption of normal campus life." Due to the type of demonstration decided upon by Martin McNamara and others, the CIA recruiter, in line with this policy and in view of the lie-in, judged it necessary to cancel the agreement made with Mr. Narucki fOI' an interview. We feel that this decision was made because the recruiter felt that the normal campus life was disrupted. Thus the freedom of the University Community was impeded and Mr. Narucki's right to have his scheduled interview was violated. This we interpret as a violation of Rule 13, section 3. in view of this, we, the Board, find Mr. McNanara guilty. 
the charges against McNamara. In his accusation, Narucki said: "I made my 'm0ral' decision to meet with the CIA recruiter and was scheduled for a I:30 p.m. appointment on Wednesday. The interview did not take place-protesting students, with their so-called 'sardine' tactics-impeded the progress of the CIA interviews; this led to the cancellation of interviews by the CIA. I was not permitted to exercise my freedom of choice and action." 
Since Narucki admitted thai the sit-in did not physicall}' prohibit his entering the interview room at times when the interviewer was out, Rigney contended that the sit-in did not directly stop Narucki. He said that any harm done Narucki had to be a "direct c?use" of McNamara's action. 
Ultimately, however, the Judicial Board decided that the sit-in had directly caused the CIA recruiter to leave, and that McNamara was therefore responsible for Narucki's not being able to be interviewed. Assisted by a lawyer who helped clear the confusion over "cause" vs. "direct cause," the board decided that the demonstrators had "caused" Narucki's harm. They declared McNamara guilty of violating Rule 13, section '3, which states, "Demonstrators may not itnpede the freedom of the University community." 

McNamara replies to Board 
Marty McNamara's reply to the Judicial Board's statement: "I don't understand the reasoning in the statement of the 
board  because  it  wasn't  
elaborated  upon  
''l  am  most  of  all  

disappointed with the board's failure to consider the value of the rule itself and the ways in which the placement bureau and the demonstration policy 

impede  the  freedom  of  the  
community.  
"There  is  no  indication  of  

why the 'privilege' of holding the interview leads to a 'right' to meet the recruiter. It would seem to me that this would lead ~o the 'privilege' of seeing the recruiter.. and I feel that this was adequately brought out in the trial. 
"Their statement also docs 

not treat our arguments that 'direct cause' is necessary for a legitimate charge, and my statement that in demonstrating for a moral judgment against the atrocities of the CIA and the rights of student~ to hear a defense of the CIA's activities, we were, in fact, insuring the 
freedom  of  the  University  
community  and in no  way  
impeding it.  



_________________________M__ONDAY,FEBRUARY10,1969 
previous night, tQ be diredted to
Jade East After Shave from $3 00, Cologne from $3.50; and a complete collection of masculine groommg essen. The eight-members of the tials. As an alternate fragrance, try Jade East Coral and Jade East Colden Lime. SWANK, INC.-Sole Distributor the un· ad-ministration by 
non-negotiable demand that the delegatio.1 via a telegram had communicated their desire to meet with Faccenda and Hesburgh in private audience. Their request was granted, and a time of 4:00 p.m., yesterday afternoon, was decided upon. Meanwhile, Father Hesburgh and Faccenda, acting quite independently of the committee, called an SLC meeting for yesterday afternoon. 

The student-sponsored delegation walked in on this
.to 

meeting with Hesburgh and Faccenda present. Professor Michelson said he would like to speak, but Dean Lawless, of the Law School said they were our 
of order and they promptly walked out of the meeting. A member of the meeting then went after them and said they were sorry, and they would be recognized. 
Faccenda read his fact sheet that he had assembled of the events from l: 30 p.m. Thursday to 5 p.m. Friday relating to the Pornography and Censorship Conference. John Mroz, SUAC head, endorsed the fact sheet as assembled by Faccenda. After 
Faccenda had read this paper, he opened the meeting to the floor to be continued on page 6 



mtervtew 
LOST: One man's reversible tan overcoat in area behind Nieuwland Science Hall and the Fieldhouse Friday after­noon. Reward. Call 8536 or 8661. 
Foreign Car Service and Parts... For All Makes and Models.• 
IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 
THE POOL ROOM 201 N. Michigan 1Oa.m.-l2p.m. Special rates on 

Just talk to the man from General Electric. As you do, you'll find that you don't necessarily Thursday for N.D. andHe represents 170 separate GE "companies" that have to spend a lifetime working on the same job 
St. Marvs students. 

deal fu everything from space research to electric in the same place. We have operations all over the 
toothbrushes. And each of these product depart­world. Chances are you'll get to try your hand at 
ments is autonomous. Each has its own manage­more than one of them. 
Rooms for 1-4 Students ment and business objectives. Our interviewer will be on campus soon. If 
$8.00/wk./student So a job at General Electric offers the kind of you're wondering whether it's possible to find chal­
call 233-9940 inunediate responsibility you might expect to find lenging work in big business, please arrange to see 
private bath & pool table only in a small business. him. He speaks for 170 "companies." 
utilities included Right from the start you get a chance to demon­strate your initiative and capabilities. And the 
The Observer Is published daily during the college semester except

more you show us, the faster you'll move ahead. GENERAL. ELECTRIC 
vacations by the students of the
An equal opportunity employer 
University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556 second class postage pa ld, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 


if she doesn't give it to you, get it yourself! 

Negotiating committee originated 
by CUFF WINTRODE 
The physical confrontation of Friday afternoon was replaced by negotiable confrontation between the angry students, the administration, and the prosecutor's office over the weekend. Two mass meetings of students concerned with the events of the previous days brought the change of course of action during this time period. 
Saturday afternoon around 400 students met on the second 
floor  of the  Student Center to  
discuss  the  events  of  Friday  
afternoon.  Prof.  Michelson  

proposed the formation of a committee to meet with Fr. Hesburgh as a fact-finding group. Its· primary purpose was designated as finding out exactly why the police were on campus Fridav and who called them. 
3tudent Life Commissionet Larry Landry proposed a list of demands, the result of a meeting of concerned students the the students. The following statement and demands were read by Landry and passed almost unanimously: 
''We believe !hat the University administration has failed to support its students in their efforts to prevent the snppression of a film not legally declared pornographic, which the students wished to see and discuss. But it is more than the showing of the film which we feel should be considered in the rnatter. Primarily, the issue is that the police were allowed to come to campus and to forcibly and brutally remove the private property of an individual. 
I) We ask that the University Administration make a public apology to the students for initially supporting the conference and then withdrawing its backing and thus allowing the police to come in and violate the rights of the individuals of the community. 
2) We present a 
University Administration publicly inform the South Bend and St. Joseph authorities that in an open community such as ours, the use of police fore(: vi o Ia tes the rights of the community and all of its members. 
3) We present a non-negotiable demand that the University take legal action to: 
-reclaim the private stolen property 
-seek redress against the illicit invasion of a university student meeting and prevent such actions in the future 
-seek redress for the brutal attacks on students by plainclothesmen who refused to display a warrant or badges 
Last night the group convened at the second floor of the Student Center to hear the report of the fact-finding committee. Bill McElroy, a member of the committee, reported to the students the findings of that committee. 


MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10,1969 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 
Voor: our credit that We didn't use guns St. Joseph County Prosecutor Each deputy was armed, but at William E. Voor Jr. said in an no time were these guns even interview last night that he displayed." would personally recommend According to Voor, not all the deputies involved in Friday's deputies carry MACE, because it raid and seizure of "Kodak has to be hung from the belt Ghost Poems" for a "and an aerosol can flapping commendation for their against your thigh can be rather restraint. painful after a few hours." But "We were scared," said Voor, he contended that only those"as scared as I have seen officers officers who normally carryin more than six years. There MACE had it Friday at Notre were, after all, several hundred Dame.of them and only a handful of "No one drew extra cans ofus.'' MACE for this trip," he claimed. Voor said that he did not "I think my men deserve aanticipate any violence when he commendation for theirdeparted for the campus, nor did restraint," he said, "and I'm any of the other officers. He said going personally to recommendthat he intended to remove the them for it. In a way, I'm gladfilm as quietly as possible, and that I brought some of the older,that he presumed that this more experienced detectives would entail merely showing the with me. I'm convinced that if I warrant for its seizure and taking had a bunch of younger, and less it back downtown. wiser people there, someone lie continued, "I wish now would have been shot." that we had been able to show When questioned regarding his our warrant and our badges. We reasons for the seizure, Voor did show them when we said, "An affadavit was filed and searched LaFortune and other a complaint made by Raymondbuildings, but we couldn't in Gower, of the Citizens forNieuwland. There was trouble Decent Literature. After that,almost as soon as we entered." it's out of my hands. Look at itVoor claimed that he and his this way: This is my county, and men got no further than inside I have taken an oath to enforcethe door of the science hall the law in it. When somebodywhen "a writing desk came complains of an offense, I haveflying down the stairs from the no choice but to investigate itsecond floor." He said that at no and prosecute, if necessary. Intime while he was in Nieuwland this case, I had to get a warrant was there no physical contact, and seize the film. To have done even if only in the form of otherwise would have made meshovinl!. derelict in my duty."  Special price for second semesterWHY NOT SEND THE OBSERVER HOME? TAKE ADVANTAGE OF IT NOW! Enclosed is my check for $5.00HALF Please send the OBSERVER to: ............................................................ NamePRICE ··························································· Address ··························································· zipOFFER Send To: Box 11, Notre Dame Acapu leo for Easter 8 days offun in the sun $25 deposit final sign-ups $245 total Mon, Feb. 10 6:30 in the Coke Bar  

"When our way out was 
blocked, and it looked like there r-------~----------------_1-----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~======~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
was going to be a fight, we began to usc the MACE," he recalled. "I think my men should be credited for not using their guns. 


RFK series 
The campaign for president of Robert F. Kennedy will be dis­cussed by several friends and top aides of the late senator at a four-day, student-sponsored seminar starting Monday, Feb. 
10. 
The keynote address, sched­uled for H pm Tuesday Feb. I I in the Memorial Library audi­torium, will be given by Frank Mankiewicz, press secretary for Kennedy during the campaign and now a nationally syndicated public affairs columnist. 
Charles Evers, head of the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party and the Mississippi chapter of the National association for the Advancement of Colored People, will speak Wednesday Feb. 12 at 4 pm in the Lobrary auditorium on "Robert Kennedy and the Black Man in America." 
Wednesday night at 8 in the Library auditorium, David llalberstam, Pulitzer Prize­winning· journalist and a contri­buting editor of Harper's, will speak on his best-selling book, "The Unfinished Odyssey of Robert Kennedy." lfalbcrstam will be introduced by Rep. John Brademas of Indiana's Third District.. 
Coming Soon 
Based on the t>ul itzcr Prize winning novel by Bernard Malmu d 



"the fixer 
MrrrocoiOf 
1969 Caprice Coupe 


No clowns. No hoopla. No funny hats. 
This is an event for the serious car buyer. The man who has X num­ber of dollars to spend and is deter­mined to get his money's worth and maybe more. 
Come to a Chevrolet Showroom during our Value Showdown. Ask the man to show you, on paper, how you can order most any 
1969 Chevrolet with a big V8 and automatic transmission for less than you could last year. 
Come in and spend some time. Dig, probe, ask questions, take notes. You owe it to yourself to be thorough. 
Go for a drive. 
Get a free sample of Chevrolet's luxurious full-coil, cushioned ride. Shut the windows and see how fresh the interior stays, thanks to Astro Ventilation. Feel the kick of the big­gest standard V8 in our field. 

Then go down the street or across town and see how we stack up against Those Other Cars. 
We think you'll wind up with a Chevy. More people do, you know. 
•w§,!.Jen 

Puttln1 you first, keeps us first. 


The Chevrolet 
Value Showdown is on. 

PAGE4 THE OBSERVER MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1969 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Today's Expectations 
Two actions are promised today in the wake of the incidents of last Friday afternoon which began with an attempted screening of Andrew Noren's Kodak Ghost Poems and ended in police intrusion and violence. 
The first is a statement by Father Hesburgh stating that neither he nor any administration official encouraged or requested police intervention. We anxiously await Father Hesburgh's statement, and we must express our disappointment that it has been so long in coming. In light of Friday's confusion, mistaken information and misquoting on the part of the outside press, and misunderstanding and distrust of the administration, Father Hesburgh is tardy in making his position clear. Only at yesterday's SLC meeting were all the aspects of the relationship between Special Assistant to the President Philip Faccenda and Prosecutor Voor elucidated. 
The discussions, the arguments, the committees, the assemblies and the Student Center rhetoric of the last two days were caused by ignorance of the facts of the administration's role in confiscation of Noren's film. Rumor mongers and misinformed journalists and demogues have capitalized on the procrastination of the administration in issuing such a statement. 
The second action promised today is that of the selection of two representatives from each sector of the Student Life Council to a special subcommittee of the SLC to "obtain a comprehensive review of all the facts surrounding the past several days." 
We fear that the SLC subcommittee has the potential of beocming a body of six that will bore itself and the issue to death. The SLC has appointed committees before and the result has been a failury on the part of the SLC and its committees to discern between relevancy and rhetoric, between a sense of the Immectiate and the utopian, and between responsibility and convenience. 
For all the horror of last Friday afternoon, it has mobilized the SLC into action. Appointing a subcommittee, however, may not be enough action. We have been disappointed for the last two months with the failure of the SLC to realize what it must do. We resent a Student Life Council that has been more leisurely than cautious and seemingly unaware of the urgency of much of what it must consider. 
Although moved to a special meeting and made to sit for over nine hours, the SLC really only promised a future investigation. We feel that the Student Life Council is guilty of belaboring the obvious. It is beyond us why it took hours of deliberation merely to appoint a subcommittee to gather facts. 
We are also disappointed that the call for the SLC's meeting came from Father Hesburgh. Most certainly the President's call gave the meeting a special importance and urgency which an appeal by any member or even the Council's chairman could not have connoted. Hesburgh's summons also, however, diminished and eroded the independence of the SLC. When report cards are given, the SLC wilt 
receive a failing mark in initiative. We are also concerned that there are members of the SLC who refuse to treat last Friday's incidents with the seriousness tehy demand. Something must be said and said now about the mtrusion of police into the University Commumty. We admit that there must be more facts known before a final condusion can be made, and we hope that the subcommittee to be named today can provide these facts. There is no reason, though, for stretching this inquiry ad infinitum. The promised "comprehensive review" can be accurately and promptly compiled. But we also note that when a faculty member of teh SLC calls part of yesterday's proceedings a "soap opera" and when an administration member seems more interested in the unapproved use of a lecture room in Nieuwland Science hall than the presence of MACE-wielding officers of the law invading campus-officers of the law of whom Prosecutor Voor says "I think my men should be credited for not using their guns."-there is a segment of the SLC which belittles the seriousness of the incidents of Hlack Frictay. tf the SLC cannot immediately gather its facts and take a stand it will find itself filed in a section titled Irrelevancy, and it will become incumbent upon the Faculty Senate to be heard on the issue. 

ACADEM tc-­FREEDoM= 

AT NOTRE DAME~ 

1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

Paul Schroeder 
No More Black Fridays 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Amidst the sadly historic violence and confrontation that occurred this weekend between students and local law enforce.nent officials over their right to free academic enquiry, anotl>er confrontation between men of the Law took place in the ironically cordial setting of the Notre Dame Law School's hundredth anniversary celebration. 
And in a way it is ironic that while the old Law School grads were busy slapping backs and inhaling scotch and champagne on one side of the campus, not two hundred yards away students were being MACED. Superficially that might well appear to be just the case, but in fact the confrontation which took place Saturday afternoon at the Athletic and Convocation Center was Jed by none other than an Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court. 
Unfortunately, those who might have derived the greatest benefit in witnessing the challenges hurled by Mr. Justice Brennan at the Establishment were not in attendance. It might be of benefit to us all then to dwell for a moment on a few of his provocative thoughts. 
Justice Brennan, by no stretch of the imagination a young·man, demanded of his own contemporaries in the legal profession that they no longer stand by and permit only their younger colleagues to strive for social justice and human rights. He attacked the attitude of legal stand·patism whereby the Law and its servants merely follow but never lead. And finally Mr. Justice Brennan challenged his contemporaries by asking why it is that lawyers havt> shunned change and foisted their own obligation to innovate on students and religious leaders. 
I for one would suggest that those members of our community who find themselves in a position to make these challenges a reality now turn and examine the legal absurdity of current censorship laws. If one is to take Mr. Justice Brennan at his word, aad after all, he is one of the country's foremost jurists, then we can rightly assume that if the Law were in fact leading instead of following by about twenty years in this area, then Black Friday would never have happened. 
Happily, this challenge is being met by our own Law School. The Legal Aid and Defender Program has been providing-often free of charge-counsel to local prisoners, students and indigents otherwise unable to secure private legal advice. In addition, the Law Schoo! students now attend undergraduate courses in such diverse but obviously crucial fields as Sociology and Urban Affairs. A new Law Center is being planned whose facilities will be available to':!veryone. 
But perhaps the most encouraging indication that the Law is finally producing men of the necessary vision and courage to cope with current problems can be found in Dean Lawless himself. As chairman of the Student Life Council, he has devoted much of his time and energy to the improvement of undergraduate life and particularly to the protection of student rights. Unfortunately he only arrived here last August and, as he says, much of what he would like to see accomplished at Notre Dame is as yet only a dream. 
But in the inevitable changes that will take place at this university, dreamers like Dean Lawless will hopefully be able to provide us with the guidance necessary to prevent such nightmares as we witnessed on Black Friday. 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10,1969 THE OBSERVER PAGE 5 
The Arts 

FILMS Ghosts-Italian Style and Bedazzled (Avon; 1st feature at 6:00) 
The Subject Was Roses (Colfax; I :00, 3:00, 5:00, 7:00, 9:00) 3 in the Attic (Granada; I:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30) The Sound of Music (R,iver Park; Today 5:30, 8:30, Sat. and Sun. 
2: 15, 5:20, 8:30) Bullitt(State; 1:15,3:15,5:15,7:15, 9:15) 
Death of Tarzan, will be presented by Cinema '69 at 2 and H Pill Sat. and Sun. in Washington Hall. 
MISC. 
In the Notre Dame Art Gallery, O'Shaughnessy Hall: West Gallery "Paintings and sculpture from the Richard Brown-Baker Collection.,; East Gallery, "Still Life from the Permanent Collection," and "Kinetic Sculpture" by Konstantine Milonadis. 
An exhibit presenting examples of LeCorbusier's completed and projected work is currently on display in the Architecture Gallery. 
A piano recital will be given by 1oel Shapiro Thursday evenmg at 
8: IS in the Library Auditorium. 

\-\'riling a poem. 
thee, ~1\Tna, h·t Ill<' count tJ;,. ways .. ," 

:l, That's llrownin~. 
4. That's Omar l\.hayy<lll1. 
What ahont: "A ju~ of 
Tlwn how a111 I going 
wirH", a loaf of bread, 
to show \lvrna how 
And thou, ~lvrna, 
111uch I carl'? 
IJ!•sidt• 111t' .. .'' 



.'j. \Vhv don't YOU Sl'C if \'0\l l"illl 
lantf one o(thosc gn•ttt jobs Equitahlt• is oH'ering. The work is fascinating, the pay goO!I, and the opporhmiti<·s uulituit<·d. All of which lll!'ans vou'll lw ahk to tak" carl' ;>f a wift•, to say nothiug of kids, 1'\tn·nwly wt·ll. 
"0, my :\lyma is like· a red, red rost• ..." 

:\lake an appointll1!'nt through your l'lact•nu·ut Oflict•r to st•t• El{llitahlc's '111ploytm·nt rl'prt•st•ntatiw on February 27 or writl': Liond :\1. Sll'wns, l\lanagt·r, Coll1•gc Employment. 

THE rEQUITABLE 
The Equitable Lif" Assuruncl' Sudl"ty of th<• tTnill·d Stntes 'I 1285 Avenue of the Anll'rims, :'\cw \"urk, !\t•w Yurk 10019 . 

I 
A11 EqUtll 0JIJIUTIII11ily EmJ•Iuy<'r, ill/li (!) E<!Uitablc 1968 

L________________________ ------­
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••flllllll 
Tom Ehrbar 

The critic 


It happens every winter about this time -as the d) Personal Tip ... Wear your "Fighting Irish" snowflakes mutely gather and the pin-ups on the jacket, and avoid conversations. wall glance down lusciously upon you, a young man's heart turns to ... (the Censorship and 
Rosary
Pornography Conference didn't hurt any either). Not that St. Mary's is necessarily ruled out: but they are. 

a) Geographical Location . . . Last of ChiThe following remarks are for those of you 
Town's Big Three; out on the bare outskirts (or
interested in pursuing, shall we say, different types miniskirts) of the west side.

of women than those graciously residing and b) Entertainment Available . . . The greatscheming across the highway. I therefore submit, metropolis of Chicago lies in all its glory andnot humbly, my PERIODICAL GUIDE TO MID­eloquence (and redundancy) to the east, althoughWESTERN WOMEN'S COLLEGES' The com­ments, while seemingly biased, have been compiled 

traveling with a Rosary girl you might have to only after years of experience, after subtle obser­
venture far to the other side of town to hit a vations and wary perceptions. I also have read and 
suitable spot that's wild. studied extensively from the renowned classic in 
c) Identifying Characteristics ... These ladies its field, Playboy of the Midwestern World (and 
are just a little too sharp, a little too quick for any have been called that by some). The Guide has no 
Notre Dame man to handle. Or so they would have pretensions of being complete, only of being 
you believe. Anyone who crosses over to .Rosary,completely accurate. doesn't have a prayer, and is doomed to be crucified. 
d) Personal Tip .."Pray, pray for Rosary, baby."
Bar~t 

a) Geographical Location ... Tucked away far, Timberly Lake far north of Chicago in the virgin woods and valleys called Lake Forest -lies an educational institution entirely appropriate to its setting -a) Geographical Location ... Lost somewhere Barat College. To get there (if you really want to 
in the Michigan wilderness is this highly permis­
go) take Lake Shore Drive for a while, then bear-a sive, highly isolated, tiny school for the upper upper strata of society.
right. 

b) Entertainment Available ... Unlimited fun dried up so has everything else. "Wait till next 
b) Entertainment Available ... Since the lake 

and excitement is always supplied and paid for by these girls of affluence. Their 3:00 AM curfew is
year." the earliest time any girl is allowed in by.
c) Identifying Characteristics ... If you look hard enough, or if you're hardly looking, the 

c)ldentifying Characteristics ... Besides their wealth, these beauties arc tantalizing, aggressive,
women of Barat are rather easily distinguished. No one else lives up there. and wealthy. Even their food is rich. 
d) Personal Tip ... If you're ever in the area d) Personal Tip ... Leave immediately. 

and really looking for a wild time call 345-7676, have a few drinks first and prepare for anything. St. Mary's 
Mundelein 

a) Geographical Location ... On the end of a 
a) Geographical Location ... Up in Loyola rollicking shuttle bus ride, of course, we have 
territory, just touching the shore of Lake SMC. Michigan, the Mundelein maidens are still receptive b) Entertainment Available ... Nothing more 

to visitors wearing "Fighting Irish" jackets. (as amusing than trying to get a date from one of long as they're not really from Notre Dame). 
them a week in advance. 
b) Entertainment Available ... The great 

c) Identifying Characteristics ... These babes metropolis of Chicago lies in all its glory and 
are famous. for the ND rings (and students)eloquence to the west, although traveling with a 
wrapped around their fingers, ND sweatshirts, ND Mundelein girl you might have to venture far to 
mugs, NO toothbrushes, and the glow of all that is the other side of town to hit a wild spot that's 
Notre Dame shimmering brilliantly from their suitable. wide eyes. 
c) Identifying Characteristics ... Famous for 

d) Personal Tip ... If you ever want to get fixed their freckles and friendliness, these girls lack 
up over there, I don't advise using myself as a when it comes to carrying a glib conversation. reference. They generally flip out a series of mundane-lines. 
So you didn't apply 1 
The OBSERVER Workshop will be open to all undergraduates beginning tonight at 7:00pm on the LaFortune Student Center amphitheatre ( lst floor). Editor-In-Chief Bill Luking and Communication Arts Lecturer Mr. John Twohey will discuss newspaper philosophy and reporting techniques. 
AGENDA: All meetings to be held at 
7:00 pm in the LaFortune Student Center Amphitheatre (I st floor). Monday, Feb. 10: Registration and the 
philosophy of a newspaper Tuesday, ~eb. II: Reporting techniques 
\Ycdnesday, Feb 12: Interpretive Reporting Thursday, Feh. 13: Ncwswriting workshop 
PAGE 6 THE OBSERVER MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10,1969 




Justice Brennan: Legal system under attack 
by BOB SCHUELER 
un Saturday, the University of Notre Dame Law School Cen­tennial celebration moved to the huge Athletic and Convocation Center. The day's activities were highlighted by the colorful pageantry of an Academic Pro­cession into the Convocation welfare systems, in our selective service system." 
The second form of attack, he said, "Brings under attack the rule of law itself. To the disaf­fected, law is regarded as an obstacle to, rather than an in­strument of, the creation of a Thus, we too must recognize that past legislation and deci­sions have hardly begun to eli­minate the legal inequities in our society. We must redouble our own efforts not merely by giving effect to those laws already on the books but by leading the effort for new legislation to achieve real equality. 
Justice Brennan concluded on a hopeful and purposeful note. Exhorting those present, he said, "The only way to demonstrate that the rule of law is consonant with a just and equitable society is to adapt the legal process to create such a society. That pro­cess will not fail us if we try. But let us delay no longer, let us begin." 

Center followed by an address given by William J. Brennan, Jr., .Associate Justice of the United ::itates Supreme Court. 
Commenting on the changing attitudes of society towards the law, Justice Brennan said, "The Law and the legal system are under heavy attack by disaf­fected groups in our society." Continuing, he said that this attack takes two forms. "First, the Law and the legal system as they exist today are challenged as basically inequita hie to all those who have been unable to particiapte fully in the economic and political life of the nation." Examples of this, he said, are the "blatant ineQuities in our crimi­nal law ..., in our tax and 
just and generous society." In order to meet these at­tacks, stated Justice Brennan, society's first task "is to demon­strate that we recognize these inequities and are confronting them with a promise of solution. Only if we succeed in this task will it be appropriate to glorify the rule of Law." 
Restating the goal of the Law to help the disadvantaged, Justice Brennan said, "Those who dwell in urban tenements and rural shacks, ..., ask what good laws and court decisions are. It is at this point that faith in progress has disappeared, and apostles of violence and revo­lution begin to make headway. 

Negotiating committee originated 
continued from page 2 
admitted that he po3sessed only for ~amendments. The fact sheet a "second-hand report." 
was erroneous concerning the 
The demands that were 
events surrounding the 
proposed on Saturday by Larry confiscation of "Kodak Ghost 
Landry were not presented to Poems." An obvious case of the 
the SLC. The rationale behind 
misunderstanding that existed 
this was twofold. First, the was the fact that the 
committee was -set up as a administration was not aware 
fact-finding committee, not as a that no search warrant or 
negotiating committee, ·and identification was shown by the 
second, a more appropriate time men who participated in the 
could be found to present the 
raid. The scuffling that followed demands. 
the seizure of the film was also Because this committee 
not accurately reported by did not possess any negotiating 
Faccenda. The administration powers, Dave Kahn, a member 
did not have a student report of of the committee, moved that a 
the incidents, and Faccenda negotiating committee be set up 

----------------------------, 


RCA On Campus Interviews 
Feb. 26 & 27 
Engineering Rotational 
Programs or Direct Assignments 

BS and MS candidates in Engineering can talk to RCA, on campus, about our Engineering Rotational Programs, Manufacturing Management Development Program or Direct Assignments in the area of your skills. Openings are in Research, Design, Development, Manufacturing Engineering, Purchasing. or Materials Management. 
Computer Systems and Sales 
BS candidates in Engineering, Science, Business. or Liberal Arts and MBA's can talk to RCA, on campus, about our Computer Systems and Sales Program. The Program consists of ten weeks of formal training at Cherry Hill, New Jersey that provides you with a broad knowledge of the field of your choice, followed by a systems assignment at one of our offices located throughout the United States. 
See your placement officer to arrange an interview with the RCA Representativ~. Or write to RCA College Relations, Building 205-1, Cherry Hill, New Jersey 08101. 
We Are An Equal Opportunity Employer 




RCII 
. . . .~. ; . I ; 
'; 
to negotiate with the SLC on the facts of the disturbances. 
Heated discussion followed, and the fear that this might allow the administration to make a face-saving compromise, which nobody wanted to allow, was expressed. Kahn said that a negotiating committee did not mean a cop-<>ut and that no compromise would be acceptable. 
Before the motion was voted on, there was an amendment saying that the eight people who served on the first committee be kept in total on the negotiating committee. After discussion on this amendment, it was voted down. Another amendment was proposed in which the members of the first committee who were not in the room at Nieuwland when the film was confiscated would be replaced. This motion 
passed. Dave Kahn's original motion, that of setting up a negotiating committee, was then passed. 

HPC hears of Renovation 
Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, CSC, 
showed hall presidents plans for 
the renovations to be made in 
their respective halls at a Hall 
Presidents Council (HPC) 
meetipg last night in the student 
center amphitheatre. Father 
Wilson, Vice-president for Busi­
ness Affairs, also distributed 
some pictures of the new furni­
ture to be put in the two new 
dorms and in the suites to be 
formed in the old halls. 
Wilson stated that one of the 
main considerations made in the 
new halls and in the improve­
ments in the old halls was one of 
flexibility and mobility. Metal 
lockers and the type of furniture 
to be used will allow students to 
arrange their rooms in almost 
any manner. He said that some­
thing will be done about the 
shortage of bunk-bed connectors 
so that students will ba able to 
stack their beds. 
"We are doing something in 
every hall," Wilson said. He sta­
ted that the university is plan­
ning to carpet the corridors in all 
nineteen halls at a cost of 
$750,000. 
Previous to Father Wilson's 
arrival at the meeting, Phil 
McKenna, chairman of the HPC, 
solicited the presidents' financial 
support for a "war against white 
racism" conference. The con­
ference, to be held February 
23-27, will involve panel discus­
sions and small discussion 
groups. "However there will be a 
few speakers mostly from Chi­
cago although there is a pos­
sibility of Senator Brooke at­
tending," said McKenna. The 
HPC hopes to cover the costs of 
the conference with no more 
than $400. 
Also during the meeting 
McKenna accused the Student 
Life Council (SLC) of playing 
games with the HPC Hall Life 
Report presented to the SLC by 
the HPC on January 5. "A lot of 
people are trying to stall the 
report," he said. 


MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1969 THE OBSERVER 
PAGE 7 


Still unbeaten 
~ 
,...



Fencers win 

Just like 01' Man River the ND conquered Chicago 19 il, fabled fencers of Notre Dame Detroit 17 I 0, and the Indiana 
{)\_

keep on rolling along. Last Hoosiers 20 7. Saturday they thwarted the The foil and sabre classes 
'~~\.~.\II

attempts of three opponents proved to be the Irish strength as who tried to end the Irish win the lighter weapon carried the streak. Nobody even came close ND team over the men from 


"'"" ~ 

to knocking off the undefeated Chitown and heavy blade did swordsmen of Mike DeCicco. likewise against the Detroit 
. ':--j~"'•.
Titans. The epees also got intoIrish 19. Chicago H 

~ I ,th<:< act as they balanced the 

Foil ' 
scoring against the boys from 

Lou Emerson (NO) d. Seth Masia (C). 4-5; Bob Bablnear (NO) d. Bob Bloomington. Ostrowski (C), 0-5; Charles Ferrall Top men in the foil division (NO) d. Alan Evenson (C), 2-5; 

were Charles Ferrall 4 0, Bob

Glenn Kalin (NO) d. Seth Masla (C), 4-5; John Lyons (NO) d. Bob Babineau 4-1, and Lou Ostrowski (C), 1-5; Dave Keeler 
Emerson 3 I. Big winners

(NO) d. Alan Evenson (C), 1-5; Seth Masla (C) d. Ray Maddalone (NO), handling the epee were Joe 4-5; John Beary (NO) d. Bob 
DePietro 3 0, Rich Deladrier 

Ostrowski (C), 3-5; Chris Cheng (NO) d. Alan Evenson (C), 1-5. 
2-0, llugh "Captain Zodiac" Epee DePaolo 2 I, and a promising Art Dob>on (NO) d. John Perry sophomore Bill Corda 2 Q_ The 
(C), 4-5; Joe DePietro (NO) d. Bern 
.>est records posted in the sabre 

Myers (C), 4-5; John Albright (NO) 
d. Robert Koss (C), J -5; John Perry class belonged to Doug Daher 
(C) d. Hugh DePa:>lo (NO), 4--5; 7 0, and Roger Holzgrafe 5 )_Rich Oeiadrler (NO) d. Bern Myers 
The fencers have now upped

(C), 4-5; Robert Koss (C) d. W_L. DeTalance (NO), 4-5; Bill Corda tlJCir record to II wins against (NO) d. John Perry (C), 3-5; Pat 
no losses. The next test to be

McDonough (NO) d. Bern Myers (C), 1-5; Robert Koss (C) d_ Henry put to the Irish occurs next • Domzalski (NO), 1-5. 
Saturday at East Lansing, 

Fresh from an 86-82 victory over Michigan Saturday, Michigan State (2-4 in the Big Ten,
Sabre 
Michigan. There ND will take on 

Jim Buckheit (C) d. Paul 6-8 overall) invades Notre Dame's Athletic and Convocation Center for a 7:30 p.m. McCandless (NO), 4-5; Roger 
MSU and Ohio State in another 

contest Tuesday. Spartan strength is up front in the persons of 6-8 center Lee Lafayette
Holzgrafe (NO) d. Bruce Patterson attempt to lengthen that victory (C), 4-5; Doug Daher (NO) d. Tom string. (left) and 6-6 forward Jim Gibbons. Lafayette is the team's leading scorer and rebounder. 
Obrzut (C), 1-5; Jim Buckheit (C) d. Roger Holzgrafe (NO), 4-5; Doug Daher (NO) d. Bruce Patterson (C), 2 5; Jim Galbraith (NO) d. Tom Obrzut (C), 0--5; Jime Buckheit (C) 
Irish skaters beaten by St. Mary's
d. Mike Feeney (NO), 3 -5; Bruce 
Patterson (C) d. John Gaither (NO), 3 5; Bill Maliszewski (NO) d. Tom Obrzut (C), 1-5. The weekend was not kind to this winter. Clearly outskated, rang the bell 53 seconds after Larry Shomion. 
Notre Dame hockey players. the Irish fired up only 23 shots the opening faceoff. Earlier, the home club had
Irish 17, Detroit 10 

The Irish dropped a two-game while St. Mary's was peppering The Irish held that 1-0 built its lead on a pair of
Foil Charles Ferrall (NO) d. Fred set to St. Mary's of Winona, N D goalie Dick Tomasoni with margin through the first 20 first-period goals by Wittliff and Hooker (D), 3-5; Bob Babineau Minn., bowing 5-I Friday and 54 scoring attempts. minutes. But early in the second an incredible three-goal hat trick (NO) d. Elton Anderson (D), 3-5; 9 5 Saturday. Both matches But for Tomasoni's individual period, St. Mary's Terry Skrypek by Kevin Hoene. Hoene's trio of
Chas Bruce (D) d. Lou Emerson (NO), 3--5; Fred Hooker (D) d. Bob were under the Convo Center's brilliance, the Red men's count sneaked behind the Irish net and markers all came in the second Babineau (NO), 0-5; Lou Emerson North Dome and the latter set a could have been in double beat Tomasoni from the other period and all were unassisted.
(NO) d. Elton Anderson (OJ, 1-5; 
Charles Ferrall (NO) d. Chas Bruce home attendance record with a figures. side, knotting the score at I I. St. Mary's now carries a (D), 4-5; Fred Hooker (D) d. Lou crowd of 3, 168. Notre Dame got on the board Later Tom Sundby and Bill 12-2 I record while Notre Emerson (NO), 4-5; Elton Anderson 
Friday night's performance first as Jim Cordes, assisted by Kronschnabel registered tallies Dame is 12 -5 3. Next Irish
(D) d. Charles Ferrall (NO), 1-5; 
Bob Babineau (NO) d. Chas Bruce was one of Notre Dame's worst Kevin Hoene and John Womack, within a minute of each other. match is Wednesday when (D), 2-5. 
In the final period, Redman Jim Illinois visits the Convo for a Epee Pohl tacked on another pair of 7:30p.m. battle.
Bob Ramsey (OJ d. Art Dobson (NO), 1-5; Joe DePietro (NO) d. goals.
Drake smashes Irish, 
Craig Vallely (0), 2-5; John Albright Notre Dame came up with a (NO) d. John Kolenda (D), I-5; Bob 
Hurd takes 
much better effort Saturday,

Ramsey (OJ d. Joe DePietro (NO), 

cops wrestling event
2-5; John Kolenda (OJ d. Art partially due to the return of Dobson (NO), 3-5; Bob Ramsey (D) 
Phil Wittliff, who missed 60 at State 
d. John Albright (NO), 1-5; Rich 
By TERRY Sl'IELDS Irish 24, Wabash 8
Deladrier (NO) d. Craig Vallely (D), Friday's action with a bad knee. Bill Hurd covered the 2 5; Hugh Depaolo (NO) d. Pokorski Observer Sports Writer 123-Tom Ciaccio (NO) decisioned 
Through two periods, the 60-yard dash in a victorious
(D), 3-5; Craig Vallely (D) d. John Tom Williams, 3-0.
Drake University won the­

Albright (NO), 3-5. 130-Keith Giron (NO) pinned Irish led 5-4. But in the last 0:6.3 seconds at the Michigan Lyril Welter, 1: 17.
Sabre Notre Dame Invitational chapter, St. Mary's put it away State Relays on Saturday night.
137-Mike Duell (NO) decisioned

Paul McCandless (NO) d. Chas Tournament last Saturday at the Laune Mason, 9-0. on three goals by Sundby and The rather slow time can be 
Diliom (D), 3-5; Roger Holzgrafe 
Sidebottom

Convo Center with a perfect 145-Phil (WC) one apiece by Larry Doyle and attributed to the composition of
(NO) d. Greg Givens (D), 2--5; Doug decisioned Ken Ryan, 8-4.
Daher (NO) d. Tyrone Simmons (D), 3-0 record. The Notre Dame the track. Freshman Mike
152-tie, Mike Higgins (NO) and

3-5; Roger Holzgrafe (NO) d. Chass 
grapplers finished second by Don Lawton, 4-4. McMannon, who already holds
Dillon (D), 4-5; Doug Daher (NO) d. 
Greg Givens (D), 2-5; Tyrone outpointing Cincinnati. Wabash 16G-Joe Lavallo (WC) decisioned Swimmers the ND triple jump record,Tom Powell, 5-3.
Simmons (OJ d. Paul McCandless College pulled up the rear of the 167~Greg Abrams (NO) pinned placed third in that event and in (NO), 2--5; Doug Daher (NO) d. Chas 
four team field. Bill Papendick, 2: 11. Kevin O'Brien,
Dillon (D), 4-5; Paul McCandless the long jump.
bow, 65-48
177-Bill Hasbrook (NO)

(NO) d. Greg Givens (D), 1-5; Roger The margin of victory was rounding into form after a
decisioned Wayne Middendorf, 4-2.

Holzgrafe (NO) d. Tyrone Simmons (0), 2-5. 
quite large for the visitors from HVWT.-Pat Mudron (NO) The Irish swimmers suffered disappointing performance
decisioned Dave Husted, 3-1.

Des Moines. The team scoring their first defeat Friday as visit­against Indiana over semester
Irish 20, Indiana 7 ing State to a
showed Drake with 89, ND a Irish 14, Cincinnati 14 Kent powered break, took fourth place in the 
Foil 

distant second with 44, Cincy 65-48 win at Rockne Pool. The mile run. In the relay events, the 
123-Tom Ciaccio (NO) decisioned

Charles Ferrall (NO) d. Dan Burgei 
had 41, . and Wabash could Dan Wallace, 7-0. visitors placed first in 9 of 13 Irish shuttle hurdles quartet
(1), 1--5; Bob Babineau (NO) d. Ric 
13G-Tom Barrett (UC) decisioned

Frishkorn (I), G-5; Glenn Kalin (NO) manage only 26. events in a match that saw six finished fifth, while the sprint
Keith Giron, 2-0.

d. Randy Majors (1), 3-5; John 
137-Jeff Berkhoff (UC) meet records fall. medley relay squad came in
Lyons (NO) d. Dan Burgei (I), 1-5; Standout~ for the Irish were Dave Keeler (NO) d. Ric Frishkorn decisioned Mike Duell, 1G-4. Bright spots for the Irish were third. Points totals were not
Tom Ciaccio in the 123 lb. class 145-Kevin Keller (UC) decisioned
(1), 1-5; Randy Majors (I) d. Mike Ken Ryan, 8-4. Freshmen John Fahey who low­keptSchnierle (NO), 4-5; John Beary sho won two matches against 
152-Mike Higgins (NO) ered his varsity 200-yard butter­(NO) d. Dan Surgei (I), G-5; Ray one defeat, Pat Mudron who 

decisioned Vince Rinaldi, 6-1.

Maddalone (NO, d. Ric Frishkorn (1), won one and tied one in the 16G-Tom Powell (NO) decisioned fly mark to 2:08.8, and Junior Irish cagers1-5; Randy Vlajors (I) d. Jim 
Ron Baird, 4-2. John Lichtenfels who swept the

Reardon (NO), :t-5. heavyweight division, Bill 
167-Steve Fisher (UC) decisioned 

Epee was 2-1 at 177, one-and three-meter diving assault records
Hasbrook who Greg Abrams, 8-7. Joe DePietro (NO) d. Jim Wolf (1), 
177-Bill Hasbrook (NO) events.
and Mike I --1-1, who 

2-5; Art Dobson (NO) d. Chuch Higgins decisioned Jay Paremba, 2-1. The only other Notre Dame Career Scoring Baker (I), 1-5; Greg Kiel (I) d. John 
usually competes at 160 but HVWT_-tie, Pat Mudron (NO) and *Tom Hawkins 1820
AI Macli, 1-1. win was in the 400-yard free­

Albright (NO), 2-5; Rich Deladrier wrestled at I 52 in the 
Bob Arnzen 1544(NO) d. Jim Wolf (I), 3-5; Chuck style relay which saw Mike

tournament.

d. McDonough (NO), 1443
Baker (II Pat Drake 24, Irish 6 Davis, Vince Spohn, Jim Bob Whitmore 
2-5; Hugh Depaolo (NO) d. Greg 
The loss to Drake marked the

Keil (1), 4-5; Mark Gailbraith (NO) 12 3-Jerry Rechetar (DU) Cooney, and John May combine Career Field Goal Pet. 
d. Jim Wolf (1), 4-5; Bill Corda (NO) first Irish defeat of the season. decisioned Tom Ciaccio (NO), 1-0. 
for a 3:25.0 meet record. 

d. Chuck Baker (1). 2-5; Greg Kiel 13G-tie, Keith Giron (NO) and *Larry Sheffield .438
Part of the blame for this loss 

(I) d. Tim Taylor (NO), 2-5. Brian Wolff (DU), 6-6. Kent State had three double 
can be placed on the absence of 137-John Mass (NO) tied Marv Arnzen .488
winners. Tom Dommel took the
Sabre 

co-captain Jim Hansen in the England (DU), 1G-10. Whitmore .474 
Paul McCandless (NO) d. Terry 200-yard breaststroke and the Shank (1), G-5; Roger Holzgrafe 152 lb. class who is out with an decisioned Skip Herbert (NO), 9--0. individual medley, Jim Popoff Season Free Throw Pet.
145-Dennis Swift (DU) 

(NO) d. Tim Duncan (1), 3-5; Bryan injury. 152-Chris Samuelson (DU) Galllten (I) d. Mike Feeney (NO), decisioned Mike Higgins (NO), 10-6. the 50-and I 00-yard freestyle, *John McCarthy 123-156 .846 
4-5; Doug Daher (NO) d. Terry The Irish record now stands at 16G-Sam Jensen (DU) decisioned and King Yaeger the 500-and Mike O'Connell 46-53 · .868 Shank (1), 1-5; Mike Feeney (NO) d. Tom Powell (NO), 6-0. 
Time Duncan 3-5; 3-0 in dual meets and 4-1-1 in I ,000-yard freestyle. 
(I), Bryan 167-Jim Massitelli (DU) Career Free Throw Pet. Gallitan (I) d. Jim Galbraith (NO), tourney competition. The next declsioned Greg Abrams (NO), 21-2. The Irish are now 5-l in meet 
3-5; Bill Maliszewski (NO) d. Terry match takes place tomorrow 177-Mike Beaman (OU) *McCarthy 278-357 .779
competition and take on

Shank (I), 3-5; John Gaither (NO) d. decisioned Bill Hasbrook (NO), 9-0. 308-381 
Tim Duncan 2-5; Doug against Western Michigan in the Phil Western Michigan Friday Arnzen .808 
(I), Daher HVWT.-tie, Gustafson (NO) at (NO) d. Bryan Galllten (1), 3-5. double dome. and Kal Tuinstra (OU), 4-4. home. *denotes all-time record holder 

THE OBSERVER MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1969
PAGES 




Irish cagers victorious at Detroit... 
Well, its two down and four and Bob Arnzen added 19 left, but not before he had bench to help cut the deficit to pull Notre Dame out of danger.. to ~o-and Johnny Dee is points. scored II points. 38--32 at the half. He cashed a jumper, then shoved breathing easier. Saturday If the Titans were moved to The second twenty minutes in a lay-up right past Haywood.
Tom Sinnott proved to be a

afternoon, Notre Dame took its the edge of tournament came off almost the same as the A wild thirty seconds ended the 
more than adequate third guard

second straight seven-point elimination by Haywood's first with Notre Dame running game, as Detroit scored five 
as he shot 2-3 and 4-4 from

victory from the University of performance, it was the job of up another 10-point lead. But points and Notre Dame three.
the floor and line for eight

Detroit and said a welcome four other Irishmen to push Haywood shook himself to life The Irish owned only a
markers. Jackie Meehan did his

good-bye to Spencer Haywood them over the brink. Sid Catlett and began to dominate both fractional advantage in shooting, 
part by wandering all over the

until next year. The 79-72 win hounded Haywood on defense ends of the court. He tipped in a but many of the misses were on
court directing the Irish offense. 

gave the Irish a I5-4 mark and while grabbing 12 rebounds and shot with eight and one-half tip attempts. Haywood helped
When the occasion demanded,

an excellant shot at one of the contributing eight points. minutes left to cut the the Titans to a rebound
he shot-4-6 and finished up

two NCAA area "at-large" bids. Dwight Murphy fouled out with difference to 57-56. advantage, while the Irish
with nine points. 

Interestingly, Saturday's slightly less than nine minutes Arnzen entered the picture to continued their distressing string television victory was due in part The Irish spent most of the of victories in the turnover to a sub-par performance by IRISH FG FT R TP game looking over their DETROIT FG FT R TP column. Haywood. The talented Arnzen 8-21 3-4 12 19 shoulders at the Titans, whose DeSilva 1-5 o-o 2 2 Notre Dame comes back Olympian could manage only 23 Catlett 4-13 0-0 12 8 tournament hopes now ride on a Haywood 1()-24 3-7 24 23 home this week for games
Whitmore 9-21 6-8 8 24 Moore 7-14 2-2 9 16
points, well below his average, 13-7 record. Arnzen's jumpers against Michigan State on 
Meehan 4-6 1-2 4 9 Dunlap 2-6 2-2 2 6
although he did grab 24 kept the Irish close until a Tuesday night and Utah State on
Murphy 5-13 1-1 5 11 Cali han ()-4 1-2 3 1
rebounds. His shooting shooting spree by Meehan gave another TV Saturday afternoon.
Jones ()-1 G-1 0 Jackson 3-6 4-4 2 
percentage was rather low both them the lead. Notre Dame 10 The Utah State contest is
Sinnott 2-3 4-4 2 8 Swartzfager 3-8 o-o 3 6
from the field and the line. TOTALS 32-78 15-20 44 79 owned a I0-point lead just Peake 2-4 1-1 1 5 Homecoming and will give fans a Notre Dame's Bob Whitmore Halftime: Notre Dame 38, Detroit 32 before halftime, but little James Calucchia 1-1 1-1 1 3 chance to see Marv Roberts, a outscored Spencer by a point Errors: Notre Dame 11, Detroit 10 Jackson came off the Detroit TOTALS 29-72 14-19 47 72 national Top Ten scorer. 
... Start thinking about NCAA tournament 
EAST REGIONAL Although the NCAA basketball tournament is still a full month away, competition for the 25 available berths has thickened. Fifteen teams will qualify Middle Atlantic Conference for the event by winning conference titles· 10 others will be granted at-large bids 
by the NCAA tournament committee. 
March 8 

Only two of those at-large invitations are available in the Mid-east Regional. 
Prime contenders are Notre Dame (15-4), Marquette (15-3), and Dayton
At-Large 
Maryland, March 13 
( 16-4). 
Atlantic Coast Conference 

At-large teams will be announced in two weeks and the entire tourney field will be complete by
Southern Conference 
March 3. 

Should the Irish nab a Mid-east berth, they
Maryland, March 15 March 8 

would face either the Ohio Valley Conference 
At-Large 
champ or the Mid-American Conference kingpin 
March 8 at a site to be determined. Miami ofOhio virtually clinched the Mid-American 
Ivy League Maryland, March 13 
March 8 

title Saturday with a
At-Large 
66-62 victory over 
I 
Bowling Green. 
Western Kentucky

MIDEAST REGIONAL 
Louisville, March 20 
will almost certain~y retain its Ohio

Ohio Valley Conference 
Valley crown. 
. 
If Notre Dame 
March 8 

gets past its initial 
At-Large 
t e s t ' t h e
I 
Wisconsin, March 13 
Southeastern
Southeastern Conference 
Conference tit list 
(probably

Mid-American Conference 
Wisconsin, March 15 
Kentucky) or the 

Big Ten winner 
(probab(v Purdue) 
March 8 

At-Large 
Wisconsin, March 13 
will be waiting. 
Big Ten Conference 

MIDWEST REGIONAL 
Louisville, ~~arch 22 
Southwest Conference 
March 8 

At-Large 
Kansas State, March 13 
Missouri Valley Conference 

At-Large 
Kansas State, March 15 
March 8 

At-Large 
Kansas State, March 13 
Big Eight Conference 

WEST REGIONAL 
Louisville, March 20 

Western Athletic Conference 
March 8 

At-Large 
I 
UCLA, March 13 
.
Pacific Eight Conference 
UCLA, March 15
West Coast Conference 

Big Sky Conference 
UCLA, March 13 
March 8 

At-Large 





