
Turnbull leadsSMCpoll; 
undecided high in race 
Junior Susan Turnbull held a has only the Presidential race slight lead over Student Govern­being contested. ment Secretary Barbara Curtin 
Miss Turnbull carried each 
in the St. Mary's Student Body class, 'the poll revealed, althoughPresidential race an OBSERVER the freshmen give her only a straw poll revealed. 
three percentage point lead. 
With the election three days Characteristically, the number of off, Miss Turnbull garnered 32.2 
undecideds rose with successive­

E 



OBSERVER 
Servifrl the Notre Dtlme •nd St. M.ry '1 CoU~e Community 
VOL. Ill, No. 108 TUESDAY, MARCH 25, 1969 
per cent in the poll. However ly younger classes. The seniors there was an unusually large tabbed Miss Turnbull by a five number of undecided, 41.2 per 

SLC considers drinking
per cent margin with the unde­cent of those polled, making any cided vote a significant factor,prediction of the eventual win­

even here. by BILL HOLLEY the action the Trustees had tion to request the trustees to 
ncr almost impossible. 

taken on the Hall Life Bill. Each withdraw the change. The mo­The Student Life Council met
SENIORS of the ammended sections was tion was passed by a margin ofThe poll results: 
yesterday and discussed the a­
presented along with the original 10-9. Susan Turnbull 29 3l.2% SusanTurnbull 35% mendments that the Trustees version. One of the changes was Another point of disagree-· put on the Hall Life Bi~l. Also to insert the phrase "(make stu­ment was in the definition of a Barbara Curtin 30% discussed were the Vaciline case, dents) aware of their obligation "public place" as put forth in
Barbara Curtin 24 26.6% 

student publications and inter­
to comply with the state law" the Hall Life Bill. Ron Mastriana Undecided national students. where the original had only stated, "I was under the impres­
Undecided 37 4L2% 35% A letter to the SLC from the stated "(make students) aware sion we weren't limiting it only The poll was weighted to take The margin grew in the junior Chairman of the Board of of the state law." Fr. Bw.chaell to rooms." Other places men­Trustees, Edmund A. Stephan,
into account the disproportion­class to which both candidates commented, "I find the addition tioned as suitable private places 
was read to the group explaining
ate number of girls in each !..lass. (continued on page 4) unwelcome" and offered a mo-were hall lounges and T.V. The OBSERVER reached ap­room. Dean Crosson suggested proximately seven per cent of all the a public place be defined as St. Mary's students, exactly 90 "everything that is not a room in
McDonough to head WSND 
girls. The OBSERVER's poll a dormitory." This definition 
WSND announced Saturday Clinton. Luke Griffin will return mittor and a new AM transmit­
reached the same percentage of was accepted. Stipulations on 
that Rick McDonough will suc­as business manager, and Paul tor. He stated that "with a new
Notre Dame students during the the requirements which must be ceed John F. Sturm as its new Matwiy will stay on as FM pro­AM transmittor, we can make
SBP race two weeks ago. met before a hall can have parie­
station manager. He will take gram supervisor. our present on-campus carrier
The nomination deadline was tals were also discussed. over this position on April I. When asked what his major system more effective by placing
extended to Friday noon be­The second thing on the agen­The campus radio station also concern would be as the new an AM transmittor on both the
cause of the small number of da was the Vaciline case. Fr. 
announced other appointments. station manager, McDonough North and South quads."
names filed. No other names McCarragher pointed out that were placed in nomination, des­George Molnar will take over as stated that he plans to concen­"To finance these plans," l 00 copies had been given to the chief engineer and Kathy Martin, trate on both the expansion of McDonough said, "we plan on
pite the extension. Junior Beth editors and additional copies Driscoll was the only student to the first St. Mary's student to be the FM outlet and the improve­reducing our monthly publica­were available to professors who named as the head of a WSN D ment of the AM carrier system tions to 3 editions per school
file for vice-president. wish to use the material in class. department, will become the on the campus. year. These monthly editions
Only one candidate has filed He also said that no copies will new sales manager. McDonough stated that he presently cost us from $300 to
for the other two positions open be sold. in Friday's elections. Chairman The remaining appointments plans to look into the possibility $350 a month. With the $5,000 A tri-partite resolution was
were: Carl Zwislcr as the head of a year grant, which we recieve
of the St. Mary's Teacher Course of putting a FM transmittor on presented on student publica­
the news department, Steve Del­from the administration, we
Evaluation Pam Carey has en­the top of one of the new tions and was discussed. The
laPictra as the AM chief announ­dorms. "In this way," he said, hope to have enough to cover
tered her name for Academic three members who were respon­cer, Jim Crow as the sports expenses."

Affairs Commissioner. LeMans 

"we'll be able to transmit over a 
sible for the draft were Mr.
director, John ·Harahan as the

Hall President Karen Weller has larger area. The transmittor McDonough added, "I hope Murphy, Fr. McCarragher, anddirector of production engineer­
submitted her nomination for which we have on O'Shaugnessy that I can continue to financially Richard Rossie. Rossie howevering, and Tom Laffey as music
the student representative to the is not effective enough for wide improve the station the way recommended that the resolu­director.
Student Affairs Council. range transmission." 
John did. He built up a secure tion not be passed. The resolu­Continuing as program di­The typically low turnout for McDonough also hopes to buy relationship between the station tion was not moved on but wasrectors for the AM and FMStudent Government positions a used thousand watt FM trans-and the administration." submitted as a report.
stations are AI Isenrnan and Pat 

'God yes! I'm a man, not a eunuch.' I'art Twu ofa five part series un co-education at neurotic behavior might be expected. betrayed aggressive behavior traits that might be Notre /)arne hv /larry Breen and Jim Pellef!rin. Society, particularly the Catholic society, has long closely linked with the frustration of the sexual encouraged a substitution for the overtly sexual. drive." We have attempted to discover the· actual Notre Dame vigilantes with their thumbs in the air, Whether reasonably so or not, they have advocated a extent of vandalism on the Notre Dame campus, but in neat lines on Michigan and Lasalle, hungry men separation of the sexes for purposes of moral beha­have been discouraged by the long lines in Mr. Arthur waiting patiently at the circle for that certain vior. This is fine. We're perfectly in favor of moral Pear's office. Suffice it to say that on Saturday night \llustang hearing two hungry women with teased hair behavior. But, unfortunately, those who encourage two more car windshields were broken, joining a from the Vogue Beauty School, hack issues of sparation must expect substitution and accept the massive parade of mangled candy machines, battered 1'/ayboy tucked secretively under the bed and throngs consequences of that substitution. And they must bus shelters and demolished automobiles. of shoving beasts amassing at the gates of Washington expect a consequent stagnation of the natural psyco­Adolescent puberty is a narcissistic phase in which logical growth of the collegian. Dr. Eugene Loveless, an advisor in the Counseling w~tkY ~ wt Center and a Professor of Psycology, felt that most ~~o±~~. ~ 11\T ~~~-.-~; ~~. c~ ~ Notre Dame students had not been given sufficient (~~ Li~:J­-, ~ ' r· ·df1:, opportunities in this all male environment to advance ~ . ' ~ Tomorrow: Desirability on a nonsexual~a$~: \ ~...­level.t ,., ;; (I '' ............ft'lll''~\1 mentally beyond the adolescent stage of puberty. Puberty, the fifth of Erik Erikson's eight stages ofII .,;, development, betrays itself in an excessive concern for the self and a preoccupation with the establish­ment of ones emerging identity. Role playing and role /i \ / diffusion, hero-worship, putting on masks are all / ~· ' ·~ 1 characteristic of the actions of the adolescent. "Where role diffusion is based on a strong previous doubt as to one's sexual identity, delinquent and outright psycotic incidents arc not uncommon.''/;'•' !J\' 1. ''!,\ :' Erikson suggests that pranks, thri!ls,and petty vandal­/~ I \ \ r!J", \<ri~.~~ ism might he indicative of elinquent behavior. Into Hall to see /,ady (;odiva -all scream out that yes, the first category might fall such nebulous items as fear of ego loss often make it extremely uncomfor­even the 1\.otre Dame student is a sexual creature. As shaving cream placed carefully in someone's bed, table for the youth to move outside of himself. such, embarrassingly enough, he has certain sexual lighter fluid poured under dormatory doors, pyramids Terror that comes from getting "shot down,".fear of needs and drives that cannot be ignored-agressivc at pep rallies and joy rides on sterile Friday nights. As sexual and personal inadequacy all force the adoles­drives that must find some suitable outlet. If no for the third, Dr. Loveless pointed out to us that cent to become a self-reliant source of his gratifica­outlet is to be discovered, undue frustration and "incidents of explosive outrage such as vandalism, tion. (continued on page 4)  

TUESDAY, MARCH 25, 1969

THE OBSERVER
PAGE 2 

Stern speaks on writing and other writers 
by CHUCK JACKSON Stern was referring to Hayes' Stern complained about the Students aren't the only ones Sunday afternoon address ex­modern novel, attributing to it no He
who can dissent. At least that is pressing the idea there are no metaphysical element. 
said many novels are synthesized

what Mr. Daniel Stern proved truly great modern writers. last night in the Library Audi­Going on, Stern said, "I think solely from history and psycho­torium. we are in a period of unprece­logy, and that is their short­
As the third speaker in a series dented growth of imagination." 
coming. "Why shouldn't the no­

for the Sophomore Literary Fes­As a modern writer symbolizing velist learn from the metaphysi­tival, Stern directly contradicted this trend, he cited Norman cist? " he asked. what SLF speaker Mr. Harold Mailer, because he consistently The speaker stressed other Hayes said the afternoon before. takes an "imaginative plunge." things vital for a good novel. Declared Stern, "I understand Not only literature, but all art Much of the novel is concerned the gist of what Mr. Hayes said. is caught up in "throes of living with telling the story well. In There's two things I want to say. change," the speaker continued. addition, he said, the author 
He's wrong." On a different note, Daniel should "loosen up" so that char-


HPCchairmannominations held 
The Hall Presidents Council, with whom he will be working other dorms," he said. The 
Sunday night, nominated Rich closely next year. dorms were designed with small 
Heidecker, Barney King, and Jim Whelen also attended to ascer­group living in mind. "If you've 
Smith, for the office of HPC tain the presidents' feelings re­got eight guys who want to live 
Chairman. Jim Smith declined, garding room selection and stay together you'd be crazy not to 
since he will be living off-campus hall. Marty Donlan, president of move into one of them," he said. 
next year. The three are the Fisher, and Gerry O'Shaugh­Also discussed at the meeting 
respective hall presidents of nessy, president of Sorin, both was An Tostal, set for the first 
Zahm, Lyons, and St. Ed's. objected to the presence of weekend in May. Mastriana, 
Voting will take place next freshmen in their halls next year. general chairman for the affair, week. The new chairman will Whelen, however, said that since said that girls from fifteen only complete Phil McKenna's the University has committed schools have agreed to attend. term which would have normally itself to the concept of stay hall, He added that a number of girls expired in October. McKenna every hall should contribute to from St. Mary's generously sug­will assume the office of Student this concept to some degree. gested that visiting girls stay in Body President April l. Ron Whelen also commented on the St. Mary's dorms. The dorms Mastriana was renominated HPC the two new dorms. "I see them can accommodate an additional co-chairman and is the sole can­as being very advantageous. two-thirds their norman num­didate. His present term will They just may outclass all the bers for the weekend. expire in May. 
Rev. Edgar Whelen, CSC, 

Expenditures released for SBP;
newly appointed Director of the 
Office for Student Residence, 


attended the meeting. McKenna McKenna approaches $300 limit 
had suggested that he come in The two leading candidates His organization also issuedorder to meet the presidents acter description would include impatience ... and are not to mystery to effect more realism. trust their own sincerity. There The good novel will also have are no blueprints to do this." characters less lucid and less 

Many modern writers, accord­stereotyped than those in tradi­
ing to Stern, are closed up in an tional novels, he said. In sum, to 
inner world that is devoid of be versatile, the novelist must be 
fresh styles. his own god, but a qualified god, "But style alone is not the "who doesn't know his people." answer ... It is a thrust, not an Mr. Stern stated support of intention ... It is the writer's upstart writers who defy tradi­
glory, but it is also his prison." tionalism and make the reader 
The speaker advocated the addi­think. ''I salute troublemakers, 
tion of metaphors to style for includJng myself." He also said it 
the creation of a gambit of good is th1~ writer's duty to put both fiction. hinl.;elf and the reader "against 
To the question of how litera­the wall." ture is going to change, he de­He continued, "I am looking 
clared that audience demand will for fiction that's not reasonable . 
be the factor in deciding the . . Writers should speak to our 
quality of future literature . 

Will study urbanization 
A detailed study of temporary study of the ~rban 
urbanization in the South Bend South Bend area, we believe the 
metropolitan area will begin this community will be able to de­
summer at Saint Mary's College velop a clearer self-image which 
as part of a continuing graduate is a necessary ingredient in solv­
program of Urban Studies. ing the problems of the inner 
The five-week program from city," Tondreau said. 
1unc 16 to 1uly 25 has been The Urban Program, com­
designed as an interdisciplinary prised of three separate courses 
view of the urban dilemma both in the historical, political and 
locally and nationally, acc~rding economic aspects of urbaniza­
to Dr. Louis Tondreau, co-direc­tion, is aimed at teachers, 
tor and chairman of Saint Mary's go vern menta I, q uasi-govcrn­
Political Science Department. mcntal and business leaders who 
Dr. Tondreau said the pat­have an interest in urban affairs. 
terns of urbanization in the With Tondreau, the program 
South Bend area from historical, is being directed by Dr. Charles 
political and economic aspects Poinsattc, chairman of Saint 
will be developed through inte­Mary's History Department and 
gration of classroom work and Louis Henry of the Fconomics 
independent student research. and Business Department. 
Research data compiled from student research will be pub­lished and presented to area agencies conccrnt•d with urban affairs, Tondreau said. The study will be geared in part to the considerations of South Bend's selection as a participant in the Model Cities program, he added. 
''Through historical and con-

The program will be initiated this summer as the first in a continuing course of study. Future programs may involve expansion of the study into the field of sociology, and may deal with specific programs for South Bend such as the possibility of municipal home rule as a solu­tion to the urban dilemma. 
for the Student Body Presidency released the figures of their cam­
THE OBSERVER 
paign expenses. needs people to work on 
Student Body President elect CIRCULATION 
Phil McKenna's expenses totaled 
$299.21. The limit for expenses set by Student Government was $300. 
McKenna's expenses came mainly from the printing of fly­
Call 7471 
Senior Stockholders: 
ers and brochures. During the campaign he issued 3800 copies of large brochures which cost $90. The brochure stated his
Nickel Beer -tonight 
campaign platform. 
March 25 4-9 p.m. 
Upstairs at the ....... . 
LOST: Man's black wal­let in vicinity of Convo­cation Center. RewardALUMNI CLUB 
offered. If found call Jim W_ 8605 or 8607. 

ECONOMICS 
MEET YOUR MAJOR NIGHT 
Wednesday, March 26 7·-9 p.m. Informal Library Auditorium Lounge 
see you there 
two other brochures which cost $40 apiece to be printed. Lapel buttons for the campaign cost $65. Organizational expense, not 

included  in  the  limited  allow­ 
ance, totaled about $60.  
Overall  expenses  for  John  

Mroz's campaign amounted to $271.41. As in McKenna's cam­paign, the bulk of this figure came from the printing of bro­chures and flyers. 
A fifteen page green and gold covered brochure containing the major points of Mroz's platform cost $164.10. 1000 campaign buttons cost $40.75. 
Both candidates obtained the money for their campaigns through contributions made by intl,rested students. 
ATTENTION GOOD 
TIME REPUBLICANS 

The Notre Dame Young Republicans are heading to Milwaukee for the Midwest Convention this weekend. Good Times assured for all. If you want to join us call Mike Kelly at 285-1675 or write NDYR 137 B-P. 
Eighteen teams in Grand Prix other activities to co-incide 
Eighteen teams entered in Notre Dame's first Grand Prix have received their go-carts, ac­cording to Grand Prix Chairman Bob Folks. 
"But there is still an oppor­tunity for other halls or groups to become interested," said Folks. "All they have to do is to contact the Student Union." 

Practice on the track will be­gin in late April in preparation for the time trials on May I0. The race will be held a week later. Along with Grand Prix, several other notable social events and ativities will be held at this time: An Tostal, the Blue and Gold football Game, the various class proms, and a con­cert. 
Besides providing spring social relief and inter-hall competition the Grand Prix will also provide a scholarship fund. According to Folks, "This is the first scholar ship sponsored directly by the students." 
Currently Folks is contacting auto manufacturers and sup pliers, asking them to set up displays on the quads and at the race track, which is to be built south of the Convocation Cen­ter. He reports that the response so far has been quite good. "We arc going to have just about any car you can think of," he said. "When people walk into the 

track  area,  they  are  going  to  
know  something  is  going  on.  
There  arc  going  to  be  a  lot of  

displays and a lot of people down here." 

THE SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 
PRESENTS  
Tuesday, March 25,8:00 pm  Center for Continuing Education  SIDNEY CARROLL  -"Is the Screenwriter Really a Writer?"  
Wednesday, March 26, 8:00pm  Stepan Center  GEORGE PLIMPTON  -Audio Visual Trip ofHis Adventures  
Thursday, March 27, 4:00pm  Library Auditorium  PETER  Ot VRIES  "Laughter in Theory & Pructice"  
Thursday, March 27,8:00 pm  Washington Hall  JOHN  KNOW LE~  -·"Why I Write"  

Friday, March 28, 8:00pm Washington Hall JOHN BARTH -Readings from Lost in the Funhouse 
.. 
TUESDAY, MARCH 25, 1969 

'THE. OBS/i.R.~V-=I£~R,____ ___ PAGE 3 
THE WORLD TODAY 'Vaciline' to be returned 

Sirhan hypnotized: turns blue in rage 
LOS AN<a:u:s (UPI) Sirhan B. Sirhan fired an imaginary gun 
"over and over again" and shouted "You son of a bitch" when he 
reenacted the shooting of Sen. Robert F. Kennedy under hypnosis, a 
psy«.:hiatrist testified yesterday. 
Dr. Bernard Diamond. called by the defense at Sirhan's trial for 
the murder of the New York senator early last June 5, said the 
reenactment of the shooting caused the 25 year old defendant to 
gasp and turn blue, so great was his rage in the hypnotic state. 
Asked to describe Sirhan's mental condition at the lime of the 
shooting, Dr. Diamond said: "It is my opinion that at the precise 
moment of the shooting, Sirhan was in a highly abnormal state of 
mind with a rage reaction whi«.:h was the outgrowth of a paranoid 
psychosis which started at the moment he bccamt.. confused and 
dazed by the mirrors and lights." 


Justice Department to file suit 
WASIIINGTON (lJPI) -The Supreme Court ordered new lower 
court rehearings yesterday for imprisoned teamster chief James ~. 
Hoffa and former heavyweight champion Cassius Clay on Lhc1r 
claims that illegal government eavesdropping led to their «.:onvictions. 
They were among I 5 defendants who were granted rehearings_ at 
the district court level under the controversial eavesdropping 
guidelines set forth by the court on March 10. . 
Without comment, the court turned down a Just1ce Department 
plea that the March I0 decision be reconsidered. The dc_rartme~t 
contended that the restrictions would hamper U.S. surveillance m 
the foreign intelligence field. . 
Hoffa won the right to a rehearing on two separate cases the jury 
tampering conviction for which he is serving an eight year prison 
sentence and a mail fraud conviction which is still in the appeals
. . 
stage. 
Clay, who adopted the Black Muslim name of Mt•hammed Ali, has 
been free under hond since he was found guilty by a Houston jury of 
refusing induction into the armed services in 1967. lie was given a 
sentence of five years in prison and $10.000 fine. 
Rusk says: ABM cannot be rejected 
NFW YORK (UPI)-The United Statt•s cannot afford to neglect the development of antiballistic missile systems, former Secretary of State Jkan Rusk said yesterday. . 
"If w~: were to abandon ABM and the Russi<ms go ahead, they JUst might get a tt~clmical or s«.:ientific breakthrough that would make an enormous difference in the strategic relationship between the two sides," Rusk said in a taped interview for NBC's Today Show. 
The former sc«.:rctary of stale dismissed the argument that 
dL·ploymcnl of the ABMs would interfere with negotiations with the 
Soviet Union. 
"I have no doubt the Russians will talk to us even though we arc 
taking some additional steps in the ABM field," Rusk said. 
Houston says -Man on moon in July 
SPACE CI·:NTER, llouston (UPI) The Space Agency decided 
yesterday 1t definitely will fly one more Apollo mission in mo~n 
orbit this .VI:~y before trying a landing on the hostile lunar surface m 
July. 
Reasons cikd by Agency officials included the need for more 
experiem:e operating th<: U.S. moon landing craft, which made its 
first manned fli~ht ear:icr this montit during Apollo 9, and for 
lcarni:-tg •nore about navignlion problems at the moon. 
It meant that :1stronat ts Thomas Stafford. Eugene Cernan and 
John Young will blast off toward the moon aboard Apollo I 0 on 

May 18. They will s11cnd 63 hours in lunar orbit. ' 
During this pcr:od in moon orbit Stafford and Cernan will lower themselves withir. 10 l:liles of the lunar surface insidhe t,he spid~dry 
moon landing craft, w hilc Young orbits 69 miles hig a one ms1 e 
'he Apollo l'lothcrship. 
Marines take v.c. food supplies 
SAIGON (UPI) Marines seized the largest Communist food cache of the war yesterday in a new counter-offensive, the third mounted this month to contain Viet Cong and North Vietnamese forces. 
The latest U.S. operation, Maine Crag, sent 3,000 Marines and flanking columns of more than I00 armored vehicles hack to their abandoned bastion around Khc Sanh in the northwestern corner of South Vietnam. 
Like Operation Massachusetts Striker, launched three weeks ago in the A Shau Valley but announced only Sunday, Maine Crag was designed to choke off infiltration routes along the Laotian border through which the Communists arc feeding their four week old general offensive. 
PM. Trudeau and Nixon talk shop 
WASIIJN(;TON (UPI) -President Nixon and Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Elliot Trudeau talked privately yesterday about various world problems-including some Canadian opposition to Nixon's decision to deploy an antiballistic missile system. 
At a ceremony forced inside the White llouse because of rain, Nixon welcomed Trudeau with a pledge to find "a common ground better than either of us had before." Trudeau was the first foreign head of state to visit Nixon since he took over the presidency. 
White llouse Press Secretary Ronald Ziegler said the two men then retired to Nixon's oval office and discussed privately the ABM system, East-West relations, Mideast tensions, the Vietnam War, Paris peace talks, strategi«.: arms wntrol and worldwide student unrest. Their talks will continue today. 
The Student Life Council announced yest..:rday that Va­dline Magazine is being re­turned to its student publishers this week. The administration will also pay the entire cost of its printing. 
Twenty to twenty-five copies of the magazine will he returned to each of the student editors. Approximately 300 copies will he rl'!eased to teachers who in­tended to usc the magazinL' in classroom work. 
The teachers who will usc il arc fron1 the Departments of Art, l·:n~lish, Philosophy, and the (;cncral Program. 
Remaining copies will he made available to other inter­ested faculty members. 
Marly McNamara, a spokes­man for the student group who published the magazine, said that the distribution prodecure was one that he suggested in a letter he wrote to University President Theodore llesburgh. 
M«.:Namara said that he told Iksburgh in his letter that "the damage done by Father Joyce's ~:onfiscation of the magazine was irreparable." lie also said that he told Ucsburgh that the student publishers would not feel bound to their contract with the Stu­dent Union to pay for the print­ing of the magazine since it was delivered on time. 
According to McNamara, the administration has decided to pil:k u;1 the entire cost of the 
Study published 
A study of the Breton lay and its development through 1400 by Dr. Mortimer J. Donovan, associate professor in the Univer­sity of Notre Dame's Mediaeval 

I000 copies printed. serious image of the magazine 
ML·Namara also said !hal Doc­whiL:h lws been distorted mostly tor Pl'ler Michelson of the I· n­by Joyce's annouiKellll'nl and glish lh'part mcnt has decided to cllnfiscation." usL' VacilinL' as one of the publi­"Tile appearance of Uranus cations to he cxaminL·d in a Free (an underground newspaper cir­University Course he intends to culated on campus)", McNamara teach on 1-:rotica in Art and said. "coupled with the irrespon­Censorship. sible assertions that Ram-Rod 
McNamara said that he felt Publications Ink (the publishers that the method for distribution of Vacilinel was the publisher of of the magazine was good be­'J ran us also hurt Vaciline's cause it "helped to salvage the image." 


Malik appointed fellow 
Dr. Charles II. Malik, former president of the United Nations (icncral Assembly and foreign minister of Lebanon, has been appointed a fellow of Notre Dame's Institute for Advanced Religious Studies. 
Malik, since 1962 a distin­guished professor of philosophy at the American University of Hcirut, Lebanon, has also been a visiting professor at several United States universities, in­cluding Dartmouth, llarvard, and Amcri«.:an University in Washington, D.C. lie holds an earned doctorate from Harvard and has received honorary de­grees from more than 30 United States institutions of higher learning, including Notre Dame. 
Prominent in the affairs of the United Nations for many years, including presidency of the Gen­eral Assembly in the 1958-59 session, Malik served the U.N. Human Rights Commission he­tween 1947 and 1954 and was an author of the Universal De­claration of Human Rights. 
Malik has been active in ecu­menical matters. lie was given the title of First Grand Magis-Irate of the lloly Orthodox Church by I·:cumcnical Patriarch Athcnagoras I, and was present at the three meetings of the Ecumenical Patriar«.:h with Pope Paul VI in January, 1964. in Jerusalem; in July, 1967, when the Pope visited Istanbul; and in October, 196 7, when the Ecu­menical Patriarch returned the Pope's visit in Rome. 
lie holds memberships in se­veral national and international organizations in the fields of philosophy and political s«.:iem:c and has written four books, in addition to numerous articles for American, European and Ncar Eastern magazines. 
Applications for editor of 1970 Blue Mantle 
are now open-
submit your name to Chris I land Box 695 S\1C 
by March 31st 

Institute. has been published as .---------------f---------------j 
"The Breton Lay: A (;uidc to Varieties" by the Notre Dame 
Prof. James White 
Press. The book treats the Breton lays of Marie de France, the later 
Indiana University
French Breton lay, Chaucer's (Indianapolis)Franklin's Talc, and the Middle Law School 
Fnglish Breton lay. 
Interviewing
Donovan received his doctor­ate in 195 I from llarvard Uni­versity and is a member of the 
Thursday, March 27 CCE
Mediaeval Academy of America 

J. 
Sign Up Outside 101 O'Shag
and the International Arthurian Society. 

u 
1969~

lu enl n t·on 
APPLICATIONS NOW 
BEING ACCEPTED FOR ... 
SOCIAL COMMISSIONER ACADEMIC COMMISSIONER SERVICES COMMISSIONER CONTROLLER 
MAIL TO: DENNIS J. CLARK -109 WALSH 
DEADLINE WED. MARCH 26, 1969 12 NOON 
.. 
SPRING TR,~ VI:'L PLANS:' 
A Drive-Away may be your solution! Cars in Abundance to All 
Points West, Southwest, and good chance to the East. 
Driver Must /Je 21 
Call 8362 for full details 
1970 

r 
_PA_G_E_4_____________________7:,~H.~£~Q~I]l~S~'E~Jl~rJ.~'£~R_~--------------~TUESDAY, MARCH 25, 1969 
'Co -education would definitely help ... ' 
(continued from page 1) 
Consequently, the majority visions may be later detrimental activities and outlets causes of sexual encounters of this in the sexual development of the many guys to go drinking on stage are masturbatory. Accom­male, if, when actually presented weekends." Ninety per cent of panying the masturbation act are with a heterosexual encounter, the students agreed. what Dr. Loveless calls "masta­he is disappointed to find that An increase of homosexuality batory fantasies"-day dreams the actual intercourse itself can­must also be accepted by those and visions of fantastical sexual not possibly measure up to his who would separate the sexes encounters inspired and directed dream world. for purposes of morality. Re­by Playboy and the cinema­Excessive drinking on dateless sponsible estimates we have fantasies in which the characters Saturday nights is another sub­gathered indicate that Notre can be readily manipulated­stitution readily recognized by Dame exceeds the national fantasies in which the daydream­the student body here. In a 1968 everage of active homosexuals in er can indubitably prover his poll this statement was made: this country by anywhere from masculinity. These fabulous "The lack of appropriate social one to six percent. 
Annexation plans are forwarded 
by MARTIN GRAHAM If annexed, those Notre Dame within the reasonably near fu­South Bend's Common Coun­and St. Mary's students who are ture. cil forwarded the Notre Dame over 21 and registered as perma­The last requirement which the annexation committee must
and St. Mary's proposed annexa­nent residents of South Bend tion ordinance to its annexation will be able to vote in municipal consider is whether the terms of the ordinance are fair and just to
committee and the area planning elections. 
the area being annexed.
commission for further study South Bend must then prove 
and approval last night. that they will have both the The property which is owned Council President, Robert La­funds and the intention to pro­by Notre Dame and under con­sideration by South Bend is
ven, stated that before the coun­vide for certain extended ser­bounded on the north by Colfax cil can take action in the annexa­vices in the annexed area. The Road, on the south by Angelation of the I , I I 0 acres of Notre extended services being con­
Dame's and 747 acres of St. sidered are a volunteer fire de­Blvd., the east by Juniper Road, Mary's property, "the annexa­partment, post office, and public and the west by U.S. 31. These tion committee must first judge services such garbage collec­
as boundaries will include the park­
whether six requirements are tion. ing lots and practice fields east met by the city of South Bend. The annexed area must also of Juniper Road. This process may take from four be contiguous with the South The area owned by St. Mary's 
Bend boundary. The annexation and proposed for annexation is
to six weeks." The committee must first committee must also judge bounded on the east by U.S. 31, 
judge whether the annexation whether or not the area is urban on the north by a line north of will be benificial to both the city in character. If the area is under­the Indiana Toll Road, on the of South Bend and the inhabi­developed, South Bend must south by Angela Blvd., and the 
tants of the area being annexed. then agree to develop this area west by St. Joseph's River. South Bend would benefit in the annexation by becoming eligible for a larger distribution of In­
Young Reps. to attend 
diana motor vehicle and cigar­ette taxes. This distribution of funds is based mainly on popula­
Midwest conference 
.. 
tion. The Notre Dame Young Re­the Indiana Federation of Col­Seminar planned publicans will attend the annual lege Young Republicans. convention of the Midwest Fed­The NDYRs will have two
Fresh from a victory in the eration of College Republican representatives on the Federa­Wayne State Regatta on the De­Clubs this coming weekend tion Convention's Resolutionstroit River last weekend, Notre (March 28-30) in Milwaukee, Committee, Kelly and NDYRDame's sailing club is recruiting Wisconsin. The MFCRC is a S e crctary Jim Szymanowski.

new faces through a seminar for Young Republican organization They will push for passage of thebeginners tomorrow. 
covering thirteen states from resolution on black participationClub members will show a Ohio to Oklahoma and having in the Republican Party whichfilm, "Basic :<;;ailing,"' at 7 p.m. 
over I00,000 members. originated at Notre Dame andin I 27 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
The delegation will he headed has been since passed by over aNext month, prospective sailors by NDYR Chairman Mike Kelly, dozen clubs as well as the In­will receive instruction on St. 
a former member of the execu­diana state YR hoard. Kelly andJoseph Lake. 
tive board of the Federation. Szymanowski will also push forBill McElroy, Mike Morrissey, NDYR Executive Secretary Tim a resolution backing a VolunteerJim Kelleher, John Stith and Walch, a Breen-Phillips Junior, Military.
Tom Willison skippered in the will be a candidate for Regional Any Notre Dame students in­Wayne State event. The triumph Secretary of the Federation and terested in the conventionqualifies NO for the Midwest has been endorsed by several Y R should contact Mike Kelly atSailing Championships May 3-4 clubs in the vicinity as well as 1675 or John Caither at 1285.

at Ohio State 
Dr. Sara Charles of Notre other. It may best be described Dame Psychological Services as 'to lose and find oneself in Center, stated that relations with another.' This sharing and con· women are extremely important cern can take place over any and from a psycological viewpoint in all creative and purposeful the development of the male. Fr. experience; its prototype being Ralph Dunn, head of that same the sexual act. " center, told us that "co-educa­
We were sitting at dinner last

tion would definitely help in the night, talking about the issue of
normal development of the stu­co-education as best we coulddent." Dr. Eugene Loveless ex­above the clatter and roughnesspanded. "God yes! I'm a man, of the dining hall. One studentnot a eunuch." And then he across from us, upset with theexplained for us the stage fol­conversation exploded, "Whylowing puberty-the stage of the hell do we need women heregenitality; the stage of Erikson's at Notre Dame?" Someone at"young adult": the table asked the indignant
In the genital phase, the young adult goes beyond his 
student when the last time was own ego and develops the capa­that he made love or even talked city to take and to share. 
with a woman. Our only re­Because of a mutually shared sponse was the tumultuous experience and conflict, there 
sound of forks and knives echo­
ing and resounding in the huge
develops a concern for the well­
emptiness.
being and satisfaction of the 
Junior referendum to select new Sr. Bar 
The Junior class is planning The second alternative is to 
to hold a referendum 1 uesday let the Senior Bar stay in the 
night to determine the location Alumni club. The Alumni have 
of the Senior Bar next year. already :.tgreed to back the 
In an interview with the Senior class. 
OBSERVER, Tom Miganelli, There are several drawbacks 
Sec. of the Junior Class, said to both plans. In the case of 
there were two alternatives for Louie's, the class would receive 
the location next year. only ten percent of the profits, 
"The University wants the raising the possibility that it 
bar to he moved to Louie's." would not have enough money 
The owner plans to put an addi­for Senior week. 
tion onto his place, wsting in Staying at the Alumni club, 
the nieghborhood of twenty to presents the problem of at least 
thirty thousand dollars. This will four to five thousand dollars in 
be the permanent Senior Bar. He renovation bills. Miganclli feels 
will run it, and the class will rc­though, that a slightly greater 
cieve "ten percent of the pro­profit can be realized if the class 
fits." A type of long term lease remains at the Alumni club. The 
will be signed with the Univer­main difference between the two 
sity, to insure that the addition is, "cause it is ours, Louie's is 
will be the Senior Bar for some not ours." 
years to come. 
Susan Turnbull leads SMC race; SBP undecideds more than 40% 
(continued from page 1) 
The freshman class was the 

belong. Miss Curtin fell behind closest race of the lot, Miss 
by ten per cent with the undeci­Turn bull leading by only three 
deds rising five per cent over the per cent. The undecided vote 
senior. was exceptionally large in that 
class also. JUNIORS FRESHMEN Susan Turnbull 35% Susan Turnbull 30% Barbara Curtin 25% Barbara Curtin 27% Undecided 40% 

Applications Now Being Accepted for the Position of SPORTS EDITOR Call 283 8661  Undecided 43% The sophomore class recorded the largest percentage of undeci­ded voters, 40 per cent. Miss Banta to speak Turnbull's marginal lead fell to Don A. Banta, a member offive per cent there. the Chicago law firm of Naphin, Sullivan & Banta, will he one of the principal speakers during theSOPHOMORES Notre Dame Saint Mary's 17th annual Union-Management Con­SusanTurnbull 30% ference April II. Banta's topic is "A Manage­Barbara Curtin 25% ment View of Coalition B;~rgain­ing," and he will speak at theUndecided 45% I: 30 p.m. session.  
or Write The OBSERVER Box II University of Notre Dame 46556  Tne Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.  








