
lefote ud after u IHil In the new donna. On the left Ia the lounge of Gnce Tower ilartlaDy completed. On the riaht Is a loun,e In Flanner 'tower which is what Grace will look like after construction crews move out next month. Read the Observer next week to get the inside story on when the uncompleted tower wii; be ready for occupancy. 


Mroz announces Institute for Social Action 
John Mroz, former SUAC Commissioner, announced the birth of the Robert F. Kennedy Institute for Social Action, an organization designed to 
encourage  students  to  get  
involved  in  social  action  
programs.  

Dave Young, Mroz's chief coordinator, defined the essence of the project as "providing an opportunity for Notre Dame and S MC students, faculty, and administration to put in motion their own compassion and concern in the area of social action projects." 
The Institute was founded on the prerrise that what was needed in the area of social act ion was an organization which would serve as an umbrella for the plethora of projects that now exist and which would coordinate, direct, and finance these projects. 
Jim McDonough, a founder of the Institute, further explained that too many social action projects survive for only a short tir~te because competing projects often cut too deeply into any one projects resources and that this needless waste has to be eliminated. 
The lr.stitute is run by students and this fact was emphasi1.ed by McDonough: 
"The Institute will be known as a student success or a student failure not a Notre Dame success or a Notre Oamc failure." · The Kl•nnedy Institute was conceived in thought last spring to perpetuate the ideals of llohhy Kennedy but was conveived in practice over the summer by six Notre Dame stulh-nts: Mroz, McDonough, John Kreis, Jim Metzger, Dave Young, and l'cle Kelly. 
The University gave an initial grant of $20,000 to begin operations and future finan•ing of operations will also come from outside foundations. 
McDonough said that it is "almost a sure thing'. that money will be forthcoming from outside sources but because none of the money is actually in his hands he would prefer to keep the sources anonymous. 
Direction of the Institute falls under control of a planning commission consisting of twelve students, six members of the administration, and six faculty members. The planning commission is the body which will be responsible for evaluating and deciding action on the projects brought before the Institute. 
McDonough commented that the members on the commission from the faculty and administration were asked to be on the commiSSIOn because of their interest and support on the Institute rather than their 
position  in  their  respective  
bodies.  The  list  of  these  
members  is  not  finalized  as  of  
yet.  

McDonough added that the Institute is not going to press for a specifil: sum of money but rather "reason and· present'. to any possible source of money its program and let them "evaluate'' the Institute and decide on its worth. 
"We \"!ill work with what we 

get. We have set up our general scope of operation and we will delve into the areas of operation as deeply as our resources allow." 
The Kennedy Institute will coordinate some of the South Bend projects of the Community Relations Commission of Student Government this year, and it is eventually hoped that the Institute will be able to take 
over  the  entire  Com mission's  
activities.  
M roz  advocated  g1v1ng  

academic credit for Field Study 
projects. He observed that a major cause of student non-involvement is a fear of forfeiting studies. By offering academic credit for social action programs, the Institute could circumvent this problem. 
The most essential aspect for the success of the Institute lies in student mobilization towards social action. Submission of ideas is solicited from all students of every field. Proposals of study or any programs for social action may be submitted to the Institute. The Institute 
(continued on page 7) 

CPA to ioin non-moratorium October 15 
by Paul Gallagher 
Over I 20 members of the Coalition for · Politic<ll Action (CPA) voted last night to join in on a nationwide Vietnam Mora­torium planned to replace uni­versity classes on October I 5. 
The purpose of the moratorium, according to a Washington Vietnam Moratorium Committee co-ordinating operations, is to catalyze antiwar efforts and to pressure the Nixon Administration into a committment to slop the Viet Nam war. 
The October 15 date will be used by participants for American involvement in Viet Nam. If no committment to stop the war is forthcoming after the October meeting, say the W<rshington co-ordinators, two days will be taken off for study in November, three days in December, etc. until some believable commiltmenl is made. 
The massive CPA group memeeting for nearly three hours in Nieuwland Science building agreed to ask the Student Life Council and the Faculty Life Council to co-operate with them and to take steps toward officially calling off university classes on tile October date in support of the moratorium. 
They unaminously approved, however, that in the event that the two legislating bodies refused to call off classes participants in the moratorium would refuse to go to classes anyway. 

for the Free University progmm. proposed that every event of the 
At one point, Leone called for CPA be planned carefully and a report from a spokesman of that talks be arranged with hall the local SDS chapter. The section leaders to explain CPA spokesman said that the SDS'ers activities at least a week before were waiting to find out what they arc scheduled to take place. the CPA had in mind. To date, The next large scale meeting said the spokesman, the SDS had was set for next Sunday, no activities planned. September 28. At that time, a 
There was some talk of also A f th · · specr·al AclJ·on Cornntr"ttee r·s
'"s or e new orgamzatron, 
boycotting dining halls, and says CPA planner Brian Mclnery, expected to present ideas as to campus stores as part of the the secret of its success will lie how the Moratorium study-day mora tori urn. However, no · t" can be profr"tably s•Jcnt. 
on organrza ron, Mc1nery • decision on such tactics was •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

made. 
The group also decided to begin a petition addressed to President Hesburgh ex;Jlaining the rational of the Vietnam Moratorium and asking that he move to call off classes. The petition will be circulated throughout dorms on campus and made available to off-campus students to maximize support for the program. 
As the meeting progressed it bcca me evidetn that the CPA was assuming the role of the major radical organization on campus. To begin the meeting, Chuck Leone, chairman and part-founder of the CPA, oullined for members activities in addition to the Viet Nam Moratorium which the CPA were trying to org.:nil.e, The most of important of these was the Free University. Leone called for 

Father llesburgh will return to campus next Thursday from Europe. lie has been allending meetings in (;reece and in Vienna. fle has been away from campus since September II. A list of his many extra-university activities can he found on page 4. 
Father Hesburgb 
On The I nsidc ...... . 

The Hesburgh Resume page 4 
The Observer's future page 4 
teachers as well as participants••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
PAGE 2 
SEE Sept. 27th 
NOTRE DAME-PURDUE FOOTBALL GAME 
Closed Circuit Telecast At NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC &CONVOCATION CENTER 
FREE PARKING 
• 
Starting Time 1:30 P.M. 

• 
Full Color 

• 
On A20 Foot Screen 

• 
No Live, Local or National Telecast Of This Game. 


TICKETS CAN BE PURCHASED 
AT THE CONVOCATION CENTER BOX Off1C~ OR 1HR. BEfORE GAME TIME AT GATES 8&10 CALL FOR INFORMATION 283-7354 
Prices Upper Arena $3.00 Lower Arena $5.08 Students $1.00 & $3.00 
NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC AND CONVOCATION CENTER 
BOT I SttvtPl.'{ MUST IAL.K TO COLUMBUS 
THE OBSERfiER FRIDAY SEPT!:MBER 26, 1969 
Blacks term choice mockery 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Eight Negro members of the House said yesterday the Supreme Court nomination of Judge Clement F. Haynsworth was a mockery, particularly objectionable now that the Nixon Administration is using the courts as its prime means of enforcing desegregation decrees. 
The Negroes, all Democrats, said that Haynsworth had played a prominent role "in the 15 years of frustration and delay" since the Supreme Court outlawed school segregation in 1954. 
Other Nays 

Earlier, the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights told the Senate Judiciary Committee that President Nixon's nomination of Haynsworth struck "a deadly blow to the image of the court." 
And William Pollock, general 
president of the Textile Union 
of America, charged that 
Haynsworth  was  part  of  an  
antiworker  conspiracy  by  the  
Southern textile industry.  

Pollock said Haynsworth "has been foremost among the judges of the 4th Circuit who have sought to limit the rights of workers which are guaranteed by the National Labor Relations Act." 
Anti-Civil Rights? 

Referring to Haynsworth's record as a member of the 4th 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, Rep. John Conyers, D Mich., speaking for the eight Negro lawmakers, said, "Time and time again the Supreme Court has had to reverse lower court approval of devices and plans of evasion which frustrated the school boards' olbigation to desegregate ... " 

Conyers called the appointment a "mockery of law and order." He said Haynsworth had "steadfastly undermined the 
Amateur radio 
club meeting 
Notre Dame's Ameteur Radio Club (K9VRJ) will hold its first meeting of the year Monday night, Sept. 29, at 6:30 p.m. in Room 212 of the Engineering Building. 
Because of the imminent dismantling of the Fieldhouse Supreme Court's decrees and 
thus the pe~ple's faith in orderly 
procedure ... 
The nomination, said conyers, "is particularly ominous in light of the executive branch's apparent intention to utilize the courts in desegregation disputes, rather than working through administrative remedies." 
Courts To Be Used 
The administration announced July 3 that instead of moving first to cut off federal school funds through administrative action by the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, it would immediately take school desegregation disputes to court. 
Conyers said he spoke for himself and Reps. Charles C. Diggs Jr., of Michigan, Shirley C. Chisolm of New York, William Clay of Missouri, and Louis Stokes of Ohio, who' accompanied him to the committee hearing, plus Adam Clayton Powell of New York, Robert N.C. Nix of Pennsylvania and. Augustus Hawkins of California, who were absent. 


Scholars named 
Four Notre Dame freshmen have received Alfred P. Sloan Na­

which has housed the radio club tional Scholarships for academic in past years, an immediate first excellence, personal integrity and concern of the club will be to demonstrated leadership poten­find a new location for its radio tial. equipment and antennae. The students, selected by the 
All licensed amateurs, those University, are: Vincent R. wishing to learn about "Ham Campbell, 333 S. 14th St., Sagi­Radio" and faculty are invited naw, Mich., Patrick M. Finegan, to attend. For any further 160 I N. Hollydale Dr., Fullerton, information contact the Calif., Michael P. Murtaugh, President of the Club -Bob Route 3, Box 40, Ashland, Ohio Fischer at 1867 or the and Joseph M. Portaz, 119 Vice-president of the club -E. 22nd St., Paterson, N.J. 
John Ohm at 233-3748. The Sloan Foundation, a 
!--------------, general philanthropic organiza­tion, has assisted over 2,000 male students in its 17 years. The

We Call it 
scholarship stipends, which are set by the universities in accor­
dance with individual need, range from $200 honorary awards to a current maximum of $2,600. 
~~Li-vability" 
Our idea is to serve you with lunches and dinnen you can live 


Library hours 
with day after day. Fine steaks properly broiled and at prices you 

Library hours at Saint Mary's can live with, too. And with 
are: pleasant surroundings, comfort· 
Sunday l p.m.-11 p.m.
able booths and chain, a little 
Monday-7:45 a.m.-11 p.m.
background music a~ a smile 
Thursday
from the folks who serve you. 
Friday 7:45 a.m.· 5 p.n;t.
And a choice of dinnen to match your taste: 
Saturday 9:00a.m.-5 p.m .. (Closes at noon on home fMt­ball days)
1. 
Sirloin ....................... $1.59 

2. 
Rib Eye ....................... 1.29 

3. 
Chopped Sirloin .......... 1.09 



MEET JAN£ 
4. N.Y. Strip ................... 1.89 

Sept. 30
5. 
Ham Steak .................. 1.19 

6. 
Fish Fillet ......................99



Get outta town without leaving campus. The lowest 





,..2
7. ~lb. Hamburger Platter 

long distance rates are in effect every school night 
with French Fries..79

after 7 p.m. and a// day Saturdays and Sundays. 
@Indiana Bell 
Use your long distance calling number. Save time. Dial your own calls. 
Try correspondence chell for fun, relaxation and leisurely study for game improvement. Free information-join Chartered Ch-1312 "B" Street-Hayward, California 





PAGE 

Can thermal pollution have beneficial effects? 
Can thermal pollution have some hencfkial effects? Can the worst problems be avoided with better power plant design <tnd location'! What arc the long-range effects of thermal 
poll uti on  on  streams,  rivrrs,  
lakes,  oceans  and  even  the  
r:Jimate'?  

Before concerned scientists ,.,,n find meaningful answers to tnesc pressing problems, they need to know how thermal pollution works in some detail. At Notn' Dame, two researchers arc using the computer to prcdid the l'Omplicatcd behavior of thermal "plumes"-the widening cone of heated water that spews forth from power plants. 
Albin A. Szewczyk and Steve Piacsck, professors of aerospace and mechanical engineering, arc particularly interested in st~dying the possible effects of located power plants around the Great Lakes. Their research will form part of a coordinated study of thermal pollution in the Great Lakes by scientists at Argonne National L<lboratories. 
Using accurate descriptions of the plume, the two scientists arc harrier" which fish cannot cross. 
Fish, unlike warm-blooded animals, cannot tolerate a sudden shift in the temperature of their environment. For example, water at 79 degrees is lethal to brown trout, while 77 degrees is too hot for lake trout. Even somewhat cooler water can impair the feeding and spawning capacities of the fish. 
Another danger is that heated water might collect in a pocket or bay, and remain permanently warmer than the surrounding lake. The heat could encourage the growth of algae, which uses precious oxygen needed for fish growth. Conceivably, the higher temperature could encourage the growth of disease-breeding bacteria and virus. 
T hcse effects of thermal pollution are of growing concern to the Atomic Energy Commission, private power companies, and the public at large. Both the power interests and the public seem to be caught in an unresolvable contradiction -·shall we sacrifice our growing needs for electrical power, or endanger the rivers, be generated on the lakes by 1980. This proposed power capacity would require at least 30 million gallons of heated water to be dumped into the lake system every second. Often, the waste water reaches 20 degrees above lake temperature, unless cooled by prior treatment. 
While the demand for power is growing, the public is becoming more and more unwilling to support the heat, radioactive, or smog pollutants 
of  power  plants.  In  a  few  
instances,  the  AEC has  had  to  
scrap  plants  that  were  already  
partially constructed.  

Szewczyk and Piacsek are seeking to help resolve the contradiction between power and pollution control by helping power companies reduce some of the undesirable effects of heat pollution. 
Certainly, they explained, it would be poor planning to build a large, expensive power plant, and then see whether its effluent creates any of the serious problems mentioned. Using the mathematical model being developed, the two scientists 

water in one area. Warm Beaches In fact, the plants might even be able to channel their effluent toward the beaches of northern Michigan and Wisconsin, bringing tourists that formerly shunned the icy waters. While Szewczyk and Piacsek seek to understand the wanderings of the thermal plume, other scientists at Argonne are seeking alternatives to spewing the hot, waste water directly into the 'lake. However, they seem faced with an inescapable problem-the heat 
N.D artists 

A Notre Dame Art Exhibit 
opened in Chicago this week, 
displaying the works of ND's 
best artists. 
The exhibit displays etchings, lithographs, paintings, and sculptures, primarily the works of the more advanced students and graduate students. It is generally felt in Notre Dame's Art Department that these works will compare well with those of the famed Art Institute in Chic~o. 
must be released somewhere. 
Cooling towers, one of the most widely-advocated forms of reducing the temperature of effluent water before it flows into the lake, might bring on a thermal pollution problem of their own-air thermal pollution. The tower, by warming air near the plant, could influence the weather pattern of the entire area, bringing extra measures of snow, rain and fog to the land 
around  the  tower.  The  new  
climate  and  warmer  air could  
conceivably  affect  wild  life,  
plants,  and  humans.  

on exhibit 
The exhibit, on display at the Rosner Art Gallery, 23 5 E. Ontario St., is considered a real honor for this university, because this is the first time that works of students outside of Illinois are being shown there. 
The Assistant Professors, primarily in charge of the operation are Douglas Kinsey, John Mooney, and Don Vogl. The exhibit will be on display in Chicago through November 8, 1969. 
writing equations which will hope to be able to predict with
lakes and beaches? 
describe the now of water. some accuracy where the waste
Waste Water 

leaving the power plant. Then, water of a given plant will go,
The power companies see the
they can begin to introduce under prevailing wind and 
demand for electricity doubling
equations for other current conditions.·. 
Craj"tsmcn in Optin
in the next generation. Since the 
conditions such as wind, plant With this info nation, the 
II
Great Lakes system is nearly the
size, current, bottom structure, power companies could plan 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGlASSES AND CONT4CT LENSES
last major source of cooling
t c mperature differences, and future sites that would not 
water in the midwest, the 
THE SHE R LAND BLOG.··132 S. MICHIGAN ST .··tCEntral2-146811 scientists expect that up to
general lake circulation. The endanger trout or salmon 
computer can interpret these streams, and would not lead to a 
50,000 megawatts of energy will
equations, giving mathematical build-up of extremely warm ''pictures" of the plume under varying conditions. 
SMC COFFEE HOUSE 

M.aln Oflic:e: 13~ N. Wabash Ave.··Chic:~qn
Wildlife Danger FRIDAY NIGHT SATURDAY NIGHT 
The waste water from nuclear ant• conventional plants will 
Ann Tiedemann Captain Electric in Concert 

STUDENT UNION CALENDAR 
eventually raise the temperature 
& 

of the whole lake a small 
Paul Guernsey 

For the week of September 26
amount, Szewczyk and Piacsek 
Olinda 

explained, but the real problems 
Through October 2 of heat pollution arc localized. If 
Rdward Sheehy 
Tom Henehan Both Nights 9-12 

the heated water blocks the Tom Connelly Scholarship Donation 25 centsmouths of trout or salmon 
Frid~y ,September 26
streams, it may form :· "thermal 
3:30 p.m. Joseph N. Kotanchik, NASA Manned Spacecraft Center, Houston, lectures on "Apollo II lunar Landing Mission," in the Engineering Auditorium. Public invited. 
REFRIGERATORS FOR RENT 
8:00p.m. MORRISEY HALL PARTY at the Hillside Barn. $5.00 per couple. Buses leave ND circle at 8:00, 8:45, 9:45. 
THE NORCOLD t.IOOEL NO E201 

Saturday, September 27
UNLIMITED SUPPLY 
'Decortltor 

S7.00 per month 


8:00 p.rn. Lyons Hall Party in back of lyons Hall. Music by the Circuit. 'til 11:00 p.m. 
Share the cost with your roommates 
Wednesday, October 1 
NORCOLD. INC. 1501 Michigan Street. Sidney. O~lo 45365 
4:00 p.m. Thomas Broden, professor of law and coordinator of
A SubaldlaJY of the Stolle Corporation 
Urban Studies, U of NO, will lead discussion on urban studies in the University and on plans for the future, in Room 102, Center for Continuing Education.
YOU CAN RENT OR BUY 
Thursday, October 2 DELIVERY, SERVICE, MAINTENANCE, AND PICK UP ARE FREE 
COMPACT COOL, INC. 
8:00 p.m. India Week · Gandhi Centerary Celebration and panel discussion. Amiya Chakravarty, State University College 
Another Serlllce ofStudent SOlllcu Commtulon 
of New York will be guest speaker, in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Public invited. 
CONTACJ' ·Jim or Bob Pohl 

Any group wishing to publicize an activity should have
7757•1180 ...Floor 1.111'.... 

information turned in to Room 4-E Lafortune by 5:00 ,.. 311 ,__.T­
p.m., the Wednesday before it is to appear• 
. . . A Service of STUDENT UNION 




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
DONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Publisher GAETANO DE SAPIO, Editor 
DAVID M. BREEN, Business Manager CHRIS WOLFE, Night Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
A STATEMENT BY THE EDITOR 
The Observer has seen the resignation of one editor this year and in two short weeks has bwught another one to his knees. It is a funny year: class presidents resigning, vice-presidents resigning, responsible people leaving positions that •.tey had made commitments to a long time ago. Maybe it's because somedoty every man has to make a decision-to continue stretching himself until he breaks or admitting the fact that something is just a little too big for him. Just look at what's happening to people all around Notre Dame. Since the student movement has begun to grow it has seen two student body presidents in academic hot watt:r and one high union official almost go without graduating. And they are not the only ones. One can never cease to be ama~ed by what motivates people to continue on a course 
that is bent toward self-destruction. Maybe it is because most of them have a drt:am -a more progressive and viable student government -a student union that provides the best in the way of speakers, concerts and social activities. --or a dJily Observer. 
It is a rare individual indeed who does not at some point question whether or not the hectic paradox of conflicts that he has gotten himself into is worth it all. God bless those 
No, I'm not a certified public accountant, damnit. people -that is, if an Observer editor can make an illusion to that Being. Most of the ones that. question though are faced with an extremely difficult decision. Either continue on the path they have begun to walk or walk another leaving the trail to be blazed by someone else --fresh with enthusiasm and vigor. 
Hesburgh
It is very difficult to quit anything, especially for someone who plunges into a job with the idea that he will be performing a service for someone else. It is hard to be known as a quitter too -or if one is sensitive ·to try to distinguish whether he does not have the 
Present memberships on boards, committees, councils and courage to continue or has really been blazing a trail that j11st is not the right one for him. 
commissions in which Father Hesburgh participates faithfully: 
But it is hard to live on three or four hours of sleep a night, to see a good friend out of school for three months because of the mononucleosis he caught by doing the same thing, or by watching the urtcomfortableness in an underclassman reporters face as he tries to 
Chairman, United States Commission on Civil Rightshack out a story for the fourth night in a row while he's thinking about the three nights Member, Commission on an All-Volunteer Armed Forces of work he has to catch up on when he gets back. 
Member, Carnegie Commission on the Future of Higher Education 
Speaking only for myself, I believe that we have a pretty good spirit in the Observer office. There are not too many of us for a daily paper but we try our best and do a damn 
Vatican City Permanent Representative, International Atomic Energy Agency 
good job all factors taken into account. But a daily paper I feel is a little too much for the staff we've got. Nobody likes to admit it-because we have done it for a year and to turn 
President, International Federation of Catholi<: Universities back now would smack too much of cowardice. Besides we're proud of the product we 
Board of Trustees, Rockerfeller Foundation put out and think we do the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Community an admirable service. 
Board of Trustees, Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement Plus -we are the only Catholic College with a daily newspaper in the United States. 
of Teaching Before I started this tir::tde I was working on an editorial about Father Hesburgh. We 
Board of Trustees, Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation wanted to say that we felt he spent too much time away from campus and away from the 
Board of Trustees, Institute of International Education University that he is President of. We felt that he couldn't adequately do all the things 
Member, Council on Higher Education in the American Republics that he was doing and still do a top-notch job of administering Notre Dame. Believe it or 
Member, Executive Board of Council on Higher Education in the not, we even worried a little about whether he might not be physically wearing himself 
American Republics out. 
Board of Visitors, Tulane University We honestly believe that because of his commitments to other things he is not being 
Board of Trustees, Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association the best President that he could be. Without outlining every little point ! will just 
of America mention the fact that he is simply not creating the kind of rapport that he should have 
Board of Trustees, American Council on Education with the students that go here. Many student leaders and a lot of just plain down to earth 
Member, American Bar Association Commission on Campus Government and Student Dissent
students don't exactly understand what the man is all about and that adds considerably to the tenseness on campus. We feel he is spreading himself too thin and so hurting 
Chairman, Academic Council, Ecumenical Institute for Advanced Notre Dame. 
Theological Studies in Jerusalem I personally feel that a lot of active students at Notre Dame are spreading themselves too thin and so are hurting themselves. In a sense they ar.e hurting the world as well because this mass movement to make everything bigger and busier-student government, 
Present membership on boards, committees, councils and student union, The Observer, et al. -is taking a lot away from the learning process. And 
commissions in which Father Hesburgh participates when he is not if I may say so the growing process. 
participating in the above: Maybe I only say that because of the problem I find myself faced with now. But if there is s•Jmeone in !his University who can put out a daily newspaper with little help and go to school at the same lime I would be glad to cede my position to him. 
Board of Trustees, Nutrition Foundation I don't want to though. But four Observer editors have quit this year and a number of 
Board of Directors, Education Development Center reporters have just not come back. We up here need help. 
Board of Directors, The Adlai Stevenson Institute for International Maybe Notre Dar.1e and St. Mary's don't need or want a daily newspaper. Personally 
Affairs _!'d like to see one. But if there is to be one then it is the community that must decide to 
Board of Trustees, Eleanor Roosevelt Memorial Foundation assist by helping to continue it's publication. 
Trustee, National People to People Organization Ther will be an Observer staff meeting this afternoon at 4: 15. Unless we get at least Co-chairman, National Catholic Confraternity for Interracial Justice thirty to forty people interested in putting out a daily Observer I am going to vote for Special Studies Group, Rockerfeller Brothers Fund cutback in publication. If you want it you can help. It's not easy to beg, but I'm doing it. 
Maybe, though, there is someone on this campus who would like to try to put out a daily paper with only the help of the handful of people that we have a day. From eJSperience I can vouch that they are good and dedicated. They arc a little harried and 
Present membership on boards, committees, councils and ragged around the edges after the first week -but they are top notch. 
commissions whichare largely honorary, rarely meet or which Father Hesburgh is usually unable to attend:
If that person would like to try I will step down and give all the help I can. 
Board of Directors, Freedoms Foundation at Valley Forge Board of Trustees, United Negro College Fund, Inc. Member, Council on Foreign Relations Member, Chief Executives Forum Advisory Council, Operation Crossroads Africa Advisory Council, National Catholic Student Association
THE OBSEilfiM 

The opinions exp.--d in the editorials, news analyses, and columns of The Observer are solely those of the authors and editors of The Observer and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's 
This list was compiled with the assistance of the Office of Public College, the University of Notre Dame, their administrations, faculties or student bodies. 
Information and the President's office and there are probably several The Observer is published daily during the c;ollega semester except vacations by the students ot tne 
addition and deletions to the list. University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dar;ne, Ind., 46556. Secong class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
r:/lf:, 

••••ii********i i *****i ****•IF• ~*liH 
Femme Fatale 
Tell it

(by our SMC critic-at-large Marilyn Beckeq 
********************************************* 
Depending upon the religious frequency with which you read signs on this campus, you may (or may not) have known that the circus was in town last week. (We heard about it from a former roommate.) To celebrate the first day of classes, and also to forestall the possibility of doing any studying that night, we decided to go. 
In making the circus scene (SMC svelte uses current Young College Radical idiom), we were hoping to find it (a) tacky, (b) amusing, or (c) both, if we re~lly lucked out. 
Just to get in the proper spirit, we rode to the Big Top (disguised for the eve·1ing as the Athletic and Convocation Center) in a hearse. We think we can safely say we were the only circus goers to do this, and found, to our delight, that it did, indeed, add a certain something to the evening. 
Inside, we bought cheap seats, which seemed more "drcusy," and pursued a cotton candy vendor around the upper arena, sticky hands being very necessary to the whole scene. 
As the Parade of Nations began, we tried to sneak past an usher into the higher-priced seats, with very little success. However, somewhat appeased by the fact that we had managed to sneak a Coke past him, we settled down rather cynically to watch the show. 
And now, Notre Dame, we must admit that when you stage a circus, you do stage a circus! We came equipped with a certain set of expectations, culled from old reruns of Jumbo and The (,'reatest Show on Harth. We expected to see a gaudy cardboard-and-glitter reproduction of Barnum and Bailey courtesy of MG M. Instead, we got the real thing--just s~.:ruffy enough, with just enough s~.:hmaltz to avoid being the usual slick Convo center show. 
All night long, we kept saying, "Arc we impressed!" We were impressed by the horses, we were impressed by the 


The play's the thing 
by David Allen Edmonds 
Technical Director William T. Byrd will chapter in the short history of the 
November 13 will mark an auspicious 
direct 1'he American Dream and The Death of Bessie Smith in Washington Hall

combined Notre Dame St. Mary's Theater: l'eter Pan will open that night as 
at the end of February. a marionette production. The voices and 
A newcomer to the ND-SMCTheatcr, songs will be performed by members of 
Miss Karen Huber, will direct A Servant 

the Drama Department and then taped of Two Masters later in the semester. This for the performances. Peter !'an will work by Goldoni was written in the hopefully be the beginning of an a~.:tive 
eighteenth century. It is a very funny Children's Theater. This long-lacking 
comedy, done in co:>t•1m•~sof the period. dramatic form will introduce the children 
The Theater traditionally ends its of the area to the legitimate theater, and 
season with an American-style musical will be a rewarding experience for an 
comedy. This year, however, Bcrtolt adult audience, too. In fact, the entire 
Brecht's The Good Woman of Setzuan ND-SMC Theater schedule for this year 
. will be shown. I will miss the musical should prove to be exciting. 
comedy, but I have to agree that if you've The first offering will be Joseph 
seen one, they're all pretty much the Heller's anti-military play, We Bombed in 
same. It should be worthwhile to see New 1/al'en. The original version also 
something different, as Good Woman is a bombed in New York City, but it seems 
form with which I'm not familiar, the to me that a college audience, at this 
semi-musical drama. The director of this particular period of history, will find it 
show will be Dr. Roger Kenvin, who was much more interesting. Mr. Fred Syburg 
recently named Chairman of the will direct New /Iaven 's cast whkh 
Co-operative Speech and Drama includes Mike Kelly, Dick Riehle, Mark 
Department.Genero, Jim Hawthorne and Lenore 
I am happy to be able to say that theWright. 

Theater offers an interesting andFollowing Peter Pan and opening in well-balanced schedule. In addition toDecember will be William Shakespeare's these productions, the Theater :ends its 

Romeo and Juliet. I'm looking forward to 
Touring Company around the country tothis because of the su~.:cess of the current perform before various civic groups andmovie version. Because the play will be other organizations. The Company is

performed during SMC's I 25th directed by Mr. Reginald Bain and is
anniversary, the Theater is bringing Mr. 
composed of eight Speech and DramaRobert Speaight from England to direct majors who open in Pittsburgh in a weekit. Mr. Speaight, a Shakespearean and are then booked in different cities forspecialist, is a noted actor and author, the next three weekends.

having worked with the Old Vic 
Repertory Co. and having written the 
And one last note anyone wishing to biography of llillaire Belloc. 
become a season theater ~:l bscril cr is The second Semester season will open 
urged to contad John Sheehan at with a pair of Edward Albee one-acts. 284-4025. 
balancing act, we were impressed especially by the German animal tamer with shoulder-length flaxen hair who contrived to get a Bengal tiger to jump from the back of an African elephant to the back of an Indian elephant and back again. 
On keeping with the informal character of this article, we have forgotten the name of this superman. However, we do remember that he does a mean handstand elephant-back, and that he pats his tigers on the side as if they were large, friendly dogs.) 
We were also impressed with the efficiency of the ringside crews, with the mysteriotis complexity of trapeze rigging, and with the actual dedication of little old men who sell Kcwpie dolls. 
We would also like to announce that, unlike Burt Lancaster in the film Trapeze, both the fliers who attempted triple somersaults over the rings made it down in one piece. We were, as you can guess, also impressed by this. • 
Leaving the arena some three hours later, in our highly impressive mood, "I'C tried momentarily to organize a panty raid on St. Mary's campus, as an alternative to running away to join the circus. Unfortunately, the gloriously expansive circus spirit had not yet spread to the campus at large, and we md with li ttlc success. 
Apparently, the pep rally crowd at Dillon the next evening fared a little better, bccatL~e there was indeed, that night, a raid on the St. Mary's dorms. (If the cutie who ransacked our room would 
Desperate, sick-of-it-all? -then "Tell it to Tommy." 
Or, if you'd feel more comfortable with professional counseling from a feminine slant, try "Pitch it to P-;:ppermint." All letters seeking pe~onal advice will be answered in these special Observer feature columns. Or, if requested, and a self-addressed envelope is enclosed, Tommy or Peppermint will send their replies confidentially through the mail. 
Also, keep posted on how to obtain a free copy of Tommy's booklet "How far not to go" or Peppermint's "How far to go." 
Send all letters to: 
"Tell it to Tommy" or Pitch it to Peppermint" The OBSERVER, Box II, Notre 
Dame 

care to return any of the ... ah, clothing he took, we would not be adverse to hearing from him ...) 
But back to the point. (You didn't think there was one'!) The point is, we welcomed this influx of circus chutzpah to Notre Dame. And by Saturday night, when the audience filed sedately into its scats to hear Dionne Warwick sing, we were sad that it had seemed to filter away. But the Great Sent Swarm restored our faith. Keep it up, Notre Dame! We just might get knoNn for South Bend soul! 
Name the Coffeehouse 
Friday Saturday 
Ann Tiedemann & Paul Capt. Electric & Flying 
(;ucrnscy Lapels 

.lim Moran :1d mission -25 cents l'adt day Tom Hcnenan toward scholarship 
Olinda 

Contest to rename Coffeehouse. Send ideas along with your name to P.ox 431,
fl.dward Sheehy S. Mary's College. Winner will receive a free pass to the Coffeehouse for 1969-70.
Tom Connelly 

auditions  each  
open  9:00  12:00,  basement  of  Monday 8:30 SMC Coffeehouse  
()'Laughlin  

···········································································~············· 
Feature Writers Needed 
CALL 8025 

A ~paragus Tips 
The asparagus oracle for this week predicts that the hottest lid on the charts will soon be Jesus l.f A Soul •11an by Laurence Reynolds. Already getting some airplay in the Midwest, this gospel tune should be an off the wall top forty winner. 
Chart Choices 

1. 
Jean Oliver 

2. 
Little Woman Bobby Sherman 

3. 
Everybody's Talkin' Nilsson 

4. 
Carry me back Rascals 

5. 
Sugar on Sunday Clique 

6. 
Easy to be /lard 3 Dog Night 

7. 
Hold Me Baskerville Hounds 

8. 
You, 1 Rugbys 

9. 
Hcho Park Keith Barbour 


I0. Mah-Na-Mah-Na "Sweeden Heaven and //ell" Soundtrack 
by Jim E. Brogan 
Letters to the Editor 
Another Minority 
Fditor: /:.11c/osed is a copy o{ a letter sent to l'ather ,11cCarragher regardin,; the rooms gil'en to the Afro-American Societ_r. !'lease print it in your /,etters Column. 
Dear Vice-President: 
We applaud your det:ision to reserve two rooms in LaFortune for our Afro-American brothers and would commend you for your Christian generosity were it not for certain facts whkh make 
59( 
your gift more machiavcllian than christian. 
The most obvious fact is that the University's beloved and peripatetic leader is Chairman (so-called) of the President's Commission on Civil Rights. Secondly, black student blocs have reportedly in thc past been a factor in social disruptions. 
N.D. being the ideal Christian community, however, the fads could be dismissed summarily as irrelevant. But consider the fc.IJowing: 
(I) the graduate stuMnts arc 
while football fat:tory as the blacks. We have "greater needs," too, as well as a place where our (;raduatc Student Association 
•' might b c corn e he ttcr organized." 
(2) last year the G.S.A. petitioned the University for the abandoned Alumni Club to be used as a gathering point for our social and other interests. Our needs as a minority were overlooked. We got the ubiquitous C.S.C. fickle finger; the Senior Class got the building. 
(1) it appears that minorities 
as much a minority~~gr~o~'.l~p~at~th~i~s--~h~·:~r~c--~a~r~e--~n~o~t:.._~a~l.:._l___.:e:_:q~..::u~a~JI:c!Y 
The burgers ·are bigger at 

in portant. Last year the blacks war led a juke-box for their basement room in LaFortune. They saw Hcsburgh and he secured one for them. Through mismanagement (which seems rampant at N.D.) they lost thousands on the Black Arts Festival. Hesburgh covered their losses. And where did the bus andd food money come from to pay for last year's importation of black girls for a week-end? You might check this with Hcsburgh _if you could ever find him. 
(4) when the G.S.A. requested
l 

501 DIXIEWA Y NORTH, SOUTH BEND 

The burgers are bigger at Burger King. Home of the Whopper. 


a meeting with Hesburgh, the reply was that Ted was $1 million in debt and did not have time. Hell, it's no wonder. Another request and its reply was that Ted was on another of his trips. 
All things considered, is the important thing that the blacks arc not simply ami nority, but a potentially obstreperous minority that must be coddled Jest it cause embarrasment to this white and wealthy university? 
We realize that you are a busy man, what with being the Protector of Modern Youth and Chastity and all, but we are students and you are in charge of Student Affairs. You stand a better chance of seeing Hcsburgh than we do, so if you could take the trouble to explain to him that without t•s all he has is another one of those small-town Catholic football colleges, we would be spared the trouble of proving that a group need not be black nor undergraduate to be disruptive. 
There are two new dorms on this campus, a new seminary that is 50% empty, and a new faculty club that is hurting for business. That is a hell of a lot of space considering our needs. Moreover, we are white so the Administration would not have to worry about property devaluation! The Administration might worry, wwcvcr, about a football game ),eing picketed, or the US Offic:.: of Education withdrawing all those fellowships and grants for lack of graduate students. 
With all the respect that's due, 
RoPald J. Deziel 
Government 
515 N. St. Joseph 
Nietzche On Kelly 
Editor: 

1 would like to take issue with Mike Kelly's column entitled "ROTC's Right." 
ROTC is obviously a manifestation of militarism. ROTC is the most convenient and most practical way to attack that militarism on this campus. Militarism greatly enhances the probability of a nuclear end. I hope that this generation of s t u dents w iII bring fresh p e rspectiws to the world's problems, and that they would end all militarism. Even Nictzchc observed this: 
And nerhaps the great day 

will come when a people, 
distinguished by wars and 
victories and by the highest 
development of a military order 
and intelligence, and accustomed 
to make the heaviest sacrifices 
for these things, will exclaim of 
its own free will, "We break the 
sword," and will smash its entire 
military establisn men t down to 
its foundations. Rendering 
oneself unarmed when one has 
been the best-armed, out of 
height of feeling -that is the 
means to real peace, which must 
always rest on a peace of mind.. 
.Rather perish than hate and 
fc.ar, and twice rather perish 
than make oneself hated and 
feared-this must someday 
become the highest maxim for 
every single commonwealth, too. 
(The Wanderer and his Shadow, I880) 
It is irrelevant whether ROTC 

is allowed on a christian 
university because ROTC and 
militarism regress to the 
irrational. ROTC must go. 
Bruce Johnson 
433 Lyons 


PAGE
Abortion rate pressure for gov't birth control 
A high abortion rate may be the greatest inducement to gov­ernment officials in setting up a country, birth-control program, two researchers from Notre Dame have concluded. 
Dr. William Liu, professor of sociology a:1d director of the Social Science Training Labora­tory, and Dr. Arthur J. Rubel, professor of anthropology, ex­plained that a high abortion rate meant a high detaand for scarce resources--hospital beds and hos­pital staff services to care for post-abortion complications. 
In their study of the Cebu area of the Philippines, the re­searchers found that abortion, either spontaneous or ir•duced, occurred in one out of every five pregnancies. Yet, they aaded, government ambivalence was still the greatest single barrier to success in fan,ily-planning pro­grams. 
"In effect," the 76·page inter­im study reported, "liit> lack of government programs is in ilself a policy--a policy for high f ertiii­ty." 
The report offered prelimin­ary conclusions to the govern­ments of the Philippines and the United States, on a previous study of upper, middle and lower classes in both rural and urban Cebu. In addition to gov­ernment ambivalence, it listed several other factors which com­bine to produce the over-all pop­ulation growth in the Philippines. Some of these are: 
-A culture which values large families in both the upper and lower classes. The middle-class, striving to improve its position recognizes the advantages of fewer births. Although the lower class sees that many children arc an economic burden, cultural pressure and lack of sophistica­tion keep them from taking ac­tion to curb births. 
--A culture that encourages segregation between the sexes. This segregation leads to marriages in which the partners cannot communicate effectively. Lack of communication renders 
rhythm and withdrawal practi­cally useless as birth control methods, and impairs the couple's acceptance of more modern devices. 
-The Catholic Church, which officially opposes birth control by any methods other than rhythm and abstinence. The study reports, "Even though the teachings of the Church may have little or no effect on the practice of birth control so far as individual couples are concern­
ed,  institutional  sanction  does  
have  effects  on  collective  
policy."  
-A  belief  in  folk  medicine  

and folk methods of fertility control. These beliefs, with their emphasis on large families, must 

Summa nearing $52 million goal 
sacola, Fla.; Atlanta, Ga.; Quad been committed to Notre Dame's 
A total of $45,0 II ,892 has 
Cities (Davenport, Iowa, and the "Summa" development program, 
Illinois cities of Moline, East Mo­Dr. O.C. Carmichael, Jr., South 
line, and Rock Island); Rock­Bend (Ind.) business executive 
ford-Freeport, III.; Calumet, Ind.; and national program chairman Evansville, Ind.; Indianapolis, reported last week. 
Ind.; Louisville, Ky.; New Or­leans, La.; Baltimore, Md.; Bos­

"This figure represents 87 per 
ton, Mass.; Muskegon, Mich.; cent of our $52 million goal -a 
Kansas City, Mo.; New Jersey; Al­major achievement in the two 
bany, N.Y.; Poughkeepsie, N.Y.; years since we launched the pro­
Cincinnati, Ohio; Columbus, gram," Carmichael said. 
Ohio; Dayton-Springfield, Ohio; The 29 areas of the nation 
Youngstown, Ohio; Tulsa, Okla.; which have met their quotas in­
Philadelphia, Pa.; Pittsburgh, Pa.; clude San Francisco, Calif; Den­
Providence, R.I.; Appleton, Wis.; ver, Colo.; Hartford, Conn.; Pen-
and Green Bay, Wis. 

Kennedy Institute to begin 
(continued from page 1) 
will, in turn assist in evoking support for these projects, becoming in effect the clearinghouse for all social action. 
Currently on the drawing board, awaiting student support, arc plans for a Communications Lab Project, and efforts toward aiding migrant workers. The 
Communications  Lab  will  
concentrate  on  establishing  
research  centers  in  the  core  of  

cities, staffed by Notre Dame men. Under the migrant worker proposal, the Institute will attempt to instill rights as citi:tens and people in migrants. 
Among the designs for accomplishing this, Notre Dame was enlisted by a Washington foundation representing migrants to parcel out money for food and clothing throughout the entire state· of Indiana. 
Rev. Ernest Bartell was appointed to head this campaign. However, the Institute was forced to turn this offer down, confessing inexperience. Mroz said however that the Institute would gladly assume control if students displayed enthusidsm for the project. 
Mroz also spoke of a summer camp for underprivileged children staffed by Notre Dame students. Directed by Jim Metzger, 50 boys age 8 -12 would be guests of Notre Dame beginning next summer. 
This camp program, Mroz commented shows that the In­stitute is open to any program and not restricted to aiding under privileged areas. 
Official introduction of stu­dents to the work of the Insti­tute will be conducted at a special Social Action Night scheduled for October. The Stu-

OBSERVER PHOTOGRAPHERS 
There will be a meeting of all tho~ interested in being an Observer photographer today, 6:30, in the Observer office. If you are interested, please be there. 
If you can't be at the meeting. contact Phil Bosco at 8661. 
In all, 23,598 gifts have been made to the campaign, with the largest dollar amounts from New York City ($8.8 million), Chicago. ($7.1 million), and Philadelphia ($l.l million). In terms of quota, Providence with 278 per cent leads all 61 campaign areas, with Dayton second at 259 per cent. 
Major segments of the "Sum­ma" program are faculty develop­ment, $20 million; graduate edu­cation, $13.9 million; special re­search programs, $4.5 million; and general University develop­ment, $13.5 million. 
•1n Oct. 

dent Government and the Urban Affairs Commission will sponsor the evening, at which time stu­dents can apply or submit pro­jects to the Kennedy Institute. 
be overcome before modern 
methods of health care, includ­
ing birth control, can be intro­
duced, the study asserts. 
Liu and Rubel noted that a 

thorough study of abortion 
should be performed before any 
new program of family planning 
is initiated. This study, they 
suggest, might encourage the 
government to commit itself to 
fertility control, and might gain 
the support of medical pro­
fessionals by pointing out how· many hospital beds and staff hours must be devoted to post-abortion treatment. The two researchers explained that such a study would be extremely difficult to do, as Filipino women are loath to reveal instances of fetal death, let alone induced abortion. 
The interim study offers 

several recommendations for fu­ture family planning programs to consider, including: 
-Begin by working with the middle-class, which is already concerned about the financial burden of large families, is so­phisticated enough to accept modern ted111iques, can serve as agents in bringing such methods to the lower class, and is not quite rich enough to seek this information from private clinics. 
-Then, offer family planning services as part of a government­al clinic concerned with mater­nal and child care, rather than as a separate service. 
-Educate the folk healers, es­pecially the mid wives, to explain 
the  family  planning  to  their  
clients,  and  to  encourage  birth  
control  rather  than  large.  fami­ 
lies.  

NOTICE 
"Student insurance enrollment forms must be completed by those desiring coverage by October 6, /969. Contact the insurance representatilie in room 2 (downstairs) in the LaFortune Student Center." 
edison/light 
DATE MAKER DANCE 
TO OPEN OUR NEW SEASON 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
Dancing b('gins at 9:00p.m. Friday, Sept. 26 Ends at Midnight 
GIRLS FREE 
WITH SCHQOL IDENTIFICAT.lON 
THE FIRST 200 GIRLS: NO CHARGE FROM 201 on: HALF CHARGE ($1.00) 
WE PROUDLY PRESENT 
THE STAMP MACHINE 
OBSERVER STAFF MEETING 
NEW AND RETURNING AND ANYONE INTERESTED 
' I 

IN WORKING EXCEPT REPORTERS: 
4:15 FRIDAY REPORTERS MEETING: 5:00 FRIDAY 
,, 
.. ­
-' I , I,
.,, .... 


8 Track car stereo 
systems from $4997 complete with 4 speakers! 
Open Daily Monday thru Saturday a.m. to p.m. 774 Lincoln Way East-Ph. 287-7218 
THE OBSERVER

PAGE 8 
Purdue favored over Irish 
Tabbed a one-point underdog by those who know, the Fighting Irish venture into the friendly confines of Ross-Ade Stadium this Saturday in an attempt to better their record at the expense of the Purdue Boilermakers. The game is scheduled to begin at I:30 and the only place to sec it on TV is in the Convo Center on closed circuit. 
Coach Ara Parseghian needs a repeat of last Saturday's splendid blitz to contain Purdue quarterback Mike Phipps, who stands second to Bob Griese on the all-time Boilermaker total offense list at 3,528 yards and third behind Griese and Len Dawson in passing. Sophs Walt Patulski, Fred Swendsen, and Mike Kadish now have a game's experience under their belts. Along with Mike McCoy, they'll have to contain Phipps, whose scrambling got him out of trouble all day against TCU. 
Phipp's other forte, passing, will be the problem for ND's secondary of Chuck Zloch, Clarence Ellis, and John Gasser. "Slick" Zloch must be feeling that somebody up there is not going to let him get another inten;cption. He has been the victim of questionable calls for pass interference after his last two outstanding plays (vs USC last year, and vs. N U last Saturday). According to Ara, "I didn'l see any interference, but I was on the other end of the bench. I asked the coaches and they said they didn't see any interference. I asked the referee when Zloch hit the receiver and 
he said, 'When the ball reached him.' So I said, 'I'll check it on the films.'" 
Purdue's offense has already shown a proficiency for pulling off the long-gainer. Against the Horned Frogs, Randy Cooper 


Junior halfback Randy Cooper led Purdue rushers against TCU with 117 yards in 23 carries. 
reeled off a 54-yd. run, Stan Brown caught a 67-yd. TD pass, and John Bullock rambled 80 yards with a screen pass. 
Joe Theisrnann's faking wizardry must keep the Boilermakers off balance and prevent them from keying on ND's running game. And Joe will be throwing against a veteran Purdue secondary. Ed Ziegler's total of 112 yards rushing came within 50 yards of equaling his entire '68 output. Once again he'll team with Andy Huff and the sub sensation Bill Barz in the backfield with Denny Allan on reserve. 
The reason why ND is a one-point underdog although ranked higher than Purdue in both wire service polls is Ross-Ade stadium itself, where the Irish have not been notably successful in recent years. 
Chuck Zloch, the referee•s friend, tries his interception luck against one of the country's best, Mike Phipps. 
Golf tourney 

Sunday marks the opening round of the annual Notre Dame Open Golf Tournament. All ND students are eligible while varsity golf hopefuls must partil:ipate. The tourney covers 72 holes, to be played on Sundays the 27th, Oct. 5th, 19th, and Nov. 2nd For further details, contact Rev Clarence Durbin at 6581. 

Bill Barz gets a chance to prove that his 113 rushing and receiving yards against Northwestern were no flute when he takes on the experienced Purdue defense tomorrow. 

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1969 

...................11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

,, :::;:.-
~ 
_::..; 
"' 
--= 
:-;;~ 
1~,-~~--~-~-­


/ ~ By Mike Pavlin, sports editor
I • 
' 

..IIIIUIIUIII-111111I I II IIIII1111111111 111111 IIII I I I 1111 11111111111 
Week two~ from Las Vegas 
I took quite a beating last week in my first attempt at point spread picking. Of the 28 games I picked, I had the winning teams in 22 of 27 (I haven't been able to find out the score of the Buylor-,Kansas State clash. If someone knows, please tell me). My point spreads, however, were right in only 9-27 (right meaning that the winning team either won by the designated margin or by more). 
Basically, I was too generous, as many of the games were laughers. I did, however, lose three games by one point. This week there arc several close \:on tests, starting with: 
Notre Dame over Purdue, by I0---Perhaps too big of a margin, but I think the Boilermakers have some glaring weaknesses. Arizona State over Oregon State, by 6 --Both were impressive last week, but the northerners can't match A-St.'s speed. 
Michigan over Washington, by I 0-·-The Wolverines had a Iaugher last week, this one will be tougher. 
Wyoming over Air Force, by 6 In their latest press release, the Falcons claim they're mentally recovered from last week's last second ncar upset of Missouri. I don't believe it. Bt:sides, they've lost punter and defensive back Scott Hamm with an "injury. 
Auburn over Tennessee, by 7 ··Both had an easy time in their first outings. Tiger dl';··:nse to win this one. Florida State over Miami (Fla.) by 6---Terry O'Neil and I agree on this one. For our reasons, sec his column in the SCHOLASTIC. Michigan State over SMU, by 3-·-Duffy is weal'< in the secondary, but SMU has been disappointing so far this year. 
Penn State over Colorado, by 6 ·-One of the few "toughies" for Joe Paterno. His defense willl:arry him through. Syrucuse over Kansas, by I · -The Orange men barely squeezed by nowhere Iowa State, but Kansas was mauled by Texas Tech. 
Delaware over Villanova, by 3 -!laving bombed Gettysburg 52-0, the Blue Hens look for revenge on the team which beat them 16-0 last year. 
Indiana over California, by 17 . .:Hanford over Oregon, by 20. dS(' over North western, by I 7. UCLA over Wisonsin, by 24. Washington State ovl~r Iowa, by 13. Georgia Tech over Baylur, by I 0. Mississippi over Kentucky, by 24. LSU over Rice, by 21. West Virginia over Tulane, by 14. Texas over Texas Tech, by 14. Nebraska over Texas A & M, by I 0. Ohio State over TCU, by 20. Oklahomll over Pitt, by 27. Missouri over Illinois, by 17. 
;.AST '."EEK: winning teams, 22-27' .815 winning spreads, 9-27, .333 
Saturday's Line-ups 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE SE Tom Gatewood L Jim Reilly LG Larry DiNardo C Mike Oriard RT Terry Brennan RG Gary Kos TE Dewey Poskon QB Joe Theismann LHB Ed Ziegler RHB Andy Huff FB Bill Barz 
DEFENSE 
LE Walt Patulski LT Mike McCoy RT Mike Kadish RE Fred Swendsen LOLB Tim Kelly LILB Larry Schumacher RILB Bob Olson ROLB Bob Neidert RHB Chuck Zloch LHB John Gasser S Clarence Ellis PURDUE 
OFFENSE LE Greg Fenner LT Alan Dick LG Tim Huxhold 
C Walt Whitehead RG Tom Luken RT Paul DeNuccio RE Ashley Bell QB Mike Phipps LH B Randy Cooper RHB Stan Brown FB John Bullock 
DEFENSE 
LE Billy McKoy L T Bill Yanchar MG Alex Davis RT Jim Kleidon RE Willie Nelson LB Veno Paraskevas LB Jim Teal CB Tim Foley DH Don Webster DH Steve deGrandmaison CB Sam Carter 





