
-~~~~--~---~----------------------------------~~ 
'FRI'OAY, DECEMBER 5, 1969 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Communitt, VOL IV, No. 52 
~~-S~C calendar~-~
:;:;
d 
.I n ate s ate s ;:;:
c0 0 r d :;:; 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's released their joint academic calendars for next year which show the school year beginning in early September and ending the second week in May. 
The new changes had been in the wind for a long time. There has been talk for years about changing the semesters so that the first one would end before Christmas, eliminating the hectic three weeks between Christmas and exams under the current calendar. 
There had been major admin­
istrative problems to the change 
including the scheduling of sum­
mer school and of graduation. 
Typically there has been concern 
over holding Notre Dame's out­
door commencement exercises 
in the unpredictable weather of 
South Bend May. The worry was 
relieved with the advent of the 
Athletic and Convocation Cen­
ter. Commencement was held 
indoors last year and will prob­
ably be held there regularly with 
the new change. 

The new calendars will be the same for both Notre Dame and St. Mary's. The only minor exceptic'l will be the date for graduation. Traditionally St. Mary's has held commencement on the Saturday before Notre Dame. 1971 will be no excep­tion. St. Mary's exercises will be on Saturday the fifteenth and Notre Dame on Sunday the sixteenth. 
The Academic Councils of 
both schools approved the new schedule. Notre Dame profes­sors, who had the opportunity to vote on the measure, approved it overwhelmingly. Over 70% of them voted for it. It is not known whether St. Mary's professors voted on the calendar or not. 
There has been some appre­
_hension at St. Mary's by girls that the calendar change would not enable them to get in their 9 weeks required for student teaching in the spring. This and other technical questions will be answered next week as officials at both schools were unavailable late yesterday afternoon for comment. 
Under the new calendar the fall semester would begin on Wednesday, September 9. It will end on Tuesday December 15, with exams coming from Dec. 16-22. The only break will be the Thanksgiving holiday which will be the normal 4 and one-half day weekend. Classes will even be held on holydays and legal holidays. 
Christmas vacation will last for more than a month with classes resuming on 1anuary 20. The semester will continue to May 4 with exams the 5th through the 12th. There will be no Easter vacation but classes will not be held on Good Friday. The only other break will be for a week in March from the 13th to the 22nd. 
Saturday classes will he con­tinued. 
Mack speaks on cities 
by Shaun Hill 

Professor Raymond Mack, a sociologist, author, and the Director of the Northwertern University Center for Urban Affairs spoke on "Race and Class in an Urban Context" last night in the Engineering Auditorium. He spoke as a guest of the SU A.C in conjunction with the Urban Affairs Program. 
Prof. Max addressed himself to three main points: race, class, and urban problems. 
~-~· background to his speech Prof. Mack said two points must be kept in mind. First, that the present generation is the first urban generation in history. Secondly, it is the first educated 2eneration. 
Prof. Mack said that this belief of black as inferior has been instilled gradually into people's thinking, both black and white, throughout our history. 
Th~ first of his major points 
was about the class structure in 

Raymond Mack America. Mack stated that the notion the America as a classless society is a myth. Race has been used as a substitute for class. Black people in America are forced to occupy a position 

Prof. Mack calls an "underclass." It is a separated and lower system than that of white Americans. A black man in the top echelon of this underclass system can go no further and is generally inferior to a white man in the lowest echelon of the white system, he explained. The present generation is the first to seriously question this dogma, according to Mack. Intellectuals in the past have 
(continued on page 2) 
:::: 
~;;; 
:;:; :;;; 
i!i! 
:::: 
llll 
;!;! 
l1i1
I 
6-7-8 
7 8 9 
13 
14 OCTOBER 12 22 26 NOVEMBER 
1 
25 
30 
DECEMB3~fo 
8 
!~-22 
n JANUAP7Y :;:; 19 ;:;:; 20 
i.l..ii !:
l.... FEBRU~12SS~-Iy9 
MARCH 
ll 
13 
22 24 thru Apr 2 APRIL 9 15-22 
MAY 4 S-12 
IS 16 24 Sun-Mon-Tues 

Monday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Sunday 
Monday 
Monday 
Thursday 
Monday 
Sunday 
Wednesday 
Monday 

Thurs thru Thurs 
Tuesday 

~~~~::ru Thurs 
Thursday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
:::::; 

Mon thru Fri 
Thursday 
Saturday 
Monday 

Weds thru Fri 
Friday Thurs thru Thurs 
Tuesday 

Weds thru Weds 
Saturday 
Sunday 
Monday 

Procedure for 'Ten' outlined 
by Cliff Wintrode 
Observer Associatg Editor 

Notre Dame "Ten" defense counselor Gary Mcinerney announced last night that he is no longer officially associated with the Ten and their appearance before the Appeals Board. 
He will continue to serve in an 
advisory capacity to the Ten, 
however, as the ten students 
intend to present their case at 
TMH speaks at Senate 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, chairman of the Civil Rights Commission, urged the Senate yesterday to kill a House amend­ment that would prevent the government from interfering with "freedom of choice" deseg­regation plans in the South. 
Hesburgh, president of the University of Nctre Dame, warned a Senate appropriations subcommittee the amendment, sponsored by Rep. Jamie L. Whitten, (D. Miss.), would be "an irreversible setback to the over all effort to achieve deseg­regation and equal opportunity throughout the nation." 
He said the commission's investigations had shown that freedom of choice plans, under which children may attend any school in a district they please, "are not free and are designed to continue the very segregation which has been held unconstitu­tional." 
The Whitten amendment would prevent the use of federal funds to force attendance of students at a particular school against the wishes of himself or his parents. 
Hesburgh said the commission found that, under freedom of choice plans in certain parts of the South, a black parent who \"!anted his children to attend a white school suddenly would find himself without a job or subjected to economic and social reprisals. 
(continued on page 6) 
Freshmen Orientation :::: Freshmen Registration (Labor Day) ;;;iRegistratio~ for ALL Non-Freshmen :i:l Classes begm at 8:00A.M. :·:· Formal opening of the school year with ::i:i Concelebrated Mass :;:;: Latest date for all class changes !;!; 
Columbus Day (Classes held) Midsemester Report of Deficient Students Veterans Day (Classes held) 
All Saints' Day. Thanksgiving Day holiday begins at 
12:05 P.M. Classes resume at 8:00A.M. 

Advance Registration for Spring Sem-~ 
ester 1970-71 :-:! 
Feast of the Immaculate Conception ~ (Classes held) ::=;: 
~::!lc~:~!~~tions i~ 
~ All grades are due ll~ Registratio.n day =:;: 
Classes begin at 8:00A.M. :::; 
::::::~~: .:·~~:~:~~ ;~:::dd) 

f.i..;i.i: 
Enrollment Reservations for the Fall Semester 1971-71 (Payment of $SO fee required) 
Midsemester Reports of Deficient Stu­dents Midsemester Vacation begins after last 
class Classes resume at 8:00A.M. Room Reservations for Falll971-72 

Good Friday (No Classes) 
Advance Registration for the Fall Sem­ester 1971-72 and for the Summer Session 1971 
Last Class Day Final Examination Senior Class Day Exercises Commencement Exercises All grades are due 

the hearing. 
"We feel it is better for our 
appeal that we speak rather than 
Gary," said Jack Molitor, one of 
the Ten. 
Mcinerney felt the Ten will be able to "articulate their defense more effectively by taking an active part in it" as opposed to haveing a defense counselor doing the talking for them. 
He added that by presenting their own defense they can escape the '"legal semantics" and add "credibility to the idea of a Christian community." 
"I do not feel that I can defend them in the way in which 1 they want be defended," Mcinerney said. 
The Ten's basic defense is expected to revolve around the nature of what they did rather than the legal questions involved in the case. 
"We do not want to base our defense on the legal aspects of the case but instead make it an appeal to the morality of the thing," explained Molitor. 
"Our appeal is not going to be based on whether the fifteen minute rule was properly invoked, but rather upon our motives," he continued. 
Mcinerney said he hoped that Father Riehle will dispense with his legal counsel so the case can be handled solely by father Riehle and the ten students. 
"It is a matter between the 
Ten and Father Riehle and it 
ought to be settled bet ween 
them and not between agents of 
each side," he stated. 

Mcinerney reported that the decision to have the Ten present their own case was the result of a mutual agreement between himself and the Ten and was not motivated by any other concern except that of the Ten. 
Molitor said since discussion of possible methods of presenting their defense began, the idea of the Ten presenting their own case was discussed "several times." 
A final decision was not made until Tuesday night, after the Ten had announced earlier that day to the University Court that they wo~d prefer to go before the Appeals Board, Molitor said. 
"We have been very happy with the way Gary has handled the case and we are very grateful to him for his help," said Molitor. 
Mcinerney had no comment to make on either the handling of the case so far by the administration, the decision by the Ten to go before the Appeals Board, or the effectiveness of the Ten's proposed defense. 
He cited the danger of prejudicing or harming in any 
(continued on page 6) 
-.,1,  
Dear St. Mary's, Yes, it is true. One of you young lovelies will be MISS NOTRE DAME at the Cotton  ~ a  
COTTON  BowL Applicants should submit a picture with the necessary infc..-mation to the Student Union Social Commission, Box 427, or bring it to 4C LaFortune Student Center no later  :'}' ~~'  
than 2 P.M. today. The winner will be chosen Friday night in the dining halls.  ~  
BOWl.  It'll be a great way to spend part of your vacation. Think about it. Merry Christmas!!  
Your friendly Stude•.1t Union Social Commission  .  

-r----------­
~ 

FRIDAY DECEMBER 5, 1969
THE
PAGE 2 

~ 
~ 
Saint Mary's SG meets 1n SeSSIOn 
~::~~==~==~~====~~~::~~====;:==~=:==::~~~~~~-~~P~.O~-~B:o~x:63:&~,:o~eK~a~lb~,~~~~~-~6~0~01~5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;.~ 
V1a,M···~~ 




··········~················~·······~···············~····~~~ 
LOST: Female Dog, Collie with pink collar. Need Medicine within 48 hrs. Call Art 232-6882  
N.D. Knights of Columbus present E ODD COUPL starring JACK LEMMON & WALTER MATHAU Sunday, Dec. 7th 3:00, 7:00, 9:00, II :00  
THANKS FOR YOUR INTEREST. LOOK FOR US NEXT WEEK UNIVERSITY ARTS. COUNCIL 1-------------.;crime in Bermuda '70 Met Club r--~lm"1-11111"--Fiu::«l:'li:S---! wives  


by Prudence Wear 
SMC News Edi'tor 
The first n;eetillg of the SMC Student Affairs channel since its self-imposed suspension last month was held Tuesday night as the Executive Cabinet, Stu­dent AssemLly, and Judicial Board convened to outline their futu;e plans. 
It was d.:cided that they 
-would support the movement for off-campus housing, the major student request of the pre-Thanksgiving open forum. 
Student Body President Susan Turnbell commented, "The Board of Trustees opposed it. However, we're going to proceed 
through  channels  in  spite  of  
that."  
Student  Affairs  will  present  

awards accompanied by $50 checks to six non-student mem­bers of the community for their work. Three will be given for 
ltaliana 
ROME (UPI)-It is no longer a 
Italy for a wife to commit adultery or for a hus­band to keep a mistress. 
The Constitutional Court, the highest tribunal in the country, overturned Thursday a Fascist era penal code which held that 
could be convicted of adultery but husbands could not unless they lived in open con­cubinage with a woman. 
The court said the law was written at a time when women did not want equality with men. 
=-....;~:::.:U~LI&&I.II&I~~~LII...•n•~!nnn••n•n••••nn••u••n••n•u••n•••••n•n••n•nn••unu._
.•
. 
•• 
: • 
: : 
! 
: : : : 

: 
~~!li!::ii:ii:iiii55iiii5555555555555====~___;: 
A panorama of light to the beat of music ... ever changing patterns to the mood and rhythm of any sound source. Easy hook-up to any F.M. Radio, Stereo, Tape Deck. Fully transistorized. 
Now available in seven styles. · Seeing is believing. 
SEE THEM ON CAMPUS 

s3.s4.ssoo 
MICHAEL J. OCCHIONERO UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME

TICKETS NOW ON SALE 
283-8098 

AT BOX-OFFICE 11 to 5 HURRY FOR CHOICE SEATS 
AMERICAN COLLEGE DISTRIBUTING CORPORATION 
outstanding teaching, three for considered to hold. She said she outstanding contributions to stu-takes responsibility for actions dent life. in areas where she actually has 
Lists of nominees in each no jurisdiction. category will be submitted by The group suggested that in the Academic Assembly for the future the SBP would sit on teachers and by the Student the Student Affairs Council and Assembly for student life con-the Academic Affairs Council tributors. The final decision will and would chair the Student be made by the Executive Assembly. Cabinet. A great number of students 
Next year the tuition at St. have requested an open forum Mary's will be hiked $200 and with Fr. McGrath, which will be St:.~dent Affairs plans to c•t bl
inves~iga~e the pos~ibility of at 
least JUruor exemptions from the 
increase. 
Susan Turnbull and Beth Driscoll proposed the suggestion that Student Body Presidential and Vice Presidential candidates be forced to run on tickets. The reasoning behind their suggest­ion was that a potential danger exists in the present system of a winning candidate in one office supporting a losing candidate for the other office and creating enmity. 
An attempt will be made to put power back into the Hall Councils, so that the Student Assembly might concern itself with only those issues w'lich trjuch the student body as a whole. 
In addition, tltere will be a movement toward "neatening up 
the structure", Susan said, to "putting the responsibility back where it should be." 
She noted that the Student 
Body President is structured out 
of the power position that she is 

1 y pro emsdiSCUSSed 
(continued from page 1I 
questioned this but they have traditionally been a small and easily ignored group. Today this intellectual class has been so expanded as to cause trouble 
P-rof. Mack next concentrated on Urban probler's. Conditions today in American cities are unique from any time in the past. He spoke of the story of the grandfati:er wtw immigrated from the old country, a poor and uneducated man, ard through ambition and hard work made good here in America. This was a common enough phenomanon in 1910 when unskilled labor comprised 36% of the working force, but it no 
longer  is  possible  today,  he  
pointed out.  
"Unskilled  labor  comprises  

only 9% of all jobs, and such laborers are in no demand. Look in the want adds and almost all the jobs are for white-collar or skilled labor and require a basic held sometime after Christmas vacation. The main topics ex­pected to be covered by the students are the new library and the dining hall facilities. 
Scheduled Student Affairs meetings will be held from now on. In the Student Affairs Committee, the first item on the agenda is the subject of no hours for second semester freshmen with parental permission.
• 
dore M. Hesburgh. Seniors are asked to meet at 2 
p.m. in rooms 228 and 229 Moreau to dress. 
A receptior. will follow at 4:3v in Stapleton Lounge. All students, faculty, and admini­strators are invited to attend. 
Monday at 10:30 a.m., the second and final Della Joio Mass will be held in the Church of Our Lady of Loretto. 
The community luncheon­banquet will be at noon in the Dining Hall. Mrs. Mansfield, wife of the Senate Majority Leader and a Saint Mary's alumna, will speak. Mr. Mansfield will also attend. 
Students are reminded that this will be the only noon meal served. 
In order to be assured of seats, students must sign up for a table either today or tomorrow on the list posted in the Dining Hall. 
Students will receive their tickets in their mailboxes some­time this weekend. 
education or skilL A black 
without this can't even apply for 
a job no matter how ambitious 
or hard workin~ he is. . 
The next major problem m 
our cities that he cited was the 
flight of the middle and upper 
class to the suburbs. 
This has . caused Vlirious 
problems, he said. "First, the 
problems inherent to poor and 

jobless people are intensified. Secondly, the city government is without a viable tatax base from which to draw revenues. Without money to support them the police forces, public utilities, city maintenance, and public services deteroriate greatly· This is especially and tragically true of big city schools," he said. 
Anniversary at SMC to close 
St. Mary's !25th anniversary year activities will be officially drawn to a close as students, faculty, administration and guests gather for Sunday after­noon's convocation and Mon­day's Mas5 and Luncheon. 
The convocation, to be held 
in O'Laughlin Auditorium at 
2:30 p.m. Sunday, will include an academic procession with seniors in caps-and-gowns, con­

5 ferring of twelve honorary de­: grees, and a speech by Notre5 Dame's President, Rev. Thea­

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1969 THE OBSERfJER. 
PAGE 3 
•

Food serv1ce, DHC cooperate 
Edward Price, Director of 
Food Services, today called for 
increased co-operation between 
the Food Service and the 
newly-formed Dining Hall 
Commission. 
He went on to cite the 
tremendous response to the 
Commission's current 
"Feedback" program as evidence 
of the group's worth and 
speculated that the results of 
that poll should be coming in 
the near future. 
Price also expressed a desire to work with the Commission, 
to distribute advance copie8 of menus so students know them before the meals. This will come in handy particularly when exams necessitate missing meals as it will give the students a chance to be selective. 
When questioned about the Food Service poll of November 

12, Price said that the results were being processed and would be made public when completed. The rationale behind the survey 
Re -Con offers employment opportunities 
by John DiCola Mike Shaughnessy, NSA Co­odinator, announced yesterday that through Notre Dame's membership in the National Student Association, the services of Re-Con Corporation will be made available to Notre eame students this month. The object ot the service is to match students who need jobs with employers who need talented students. The service is available to iuniors, seniors, and graduate students, looking for either full -time or summer employment, at no cost to the student. 
The only thing the applicant has to do is to fill out a shgle questionaire and mail it, :·,ostage free, to Re-Con in New York. The one form on file with Re-Con exposes the student's talents to hundreds of companies, who will then contact those students who meet their needs. 

SJ aughnessy will not have a complete list of those companies. 
According to Shaugrnessy, Student Government will receive some compensation for handling publicity and p3fising out the for·-ns. Student Government will be paid a commission for each fon!l returned to Re-Con. 
(continued on page 7) 


NSA Rep., Mike ShaughRfSSY 
•=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
!;!; The Observer is published daily :;:: during the college semester except t. :;:; vacations by the students of the ~; ;:;: Univenity of Notre Dame and St. ~ :.::.: Mary's College. Subscriptions may 
.:! 

:;:;: be purchased for $8 from The .:••~.: ;:;:;Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, .•• 
is to allow the student body a 
voice in deciding the menu. 
"My hasic aim is flexibility, I 
want to get the most out of every dollar that I can. The University makes no profit on the food service; it is just what it says, a service," Price said. 
Price c_ited several factors that 
complicate food service, outstanding among these is .he. number of me:Us to be served. "You can't please everyone all of the time, our aim is to please most of the poeple, most of the time," Price continued. 
It was pointed out that many felt that the .meals on the two days prior to the survey were better than usual and asked Puce if this was not an attempt to sway the students. He said the meal calendar had been n.lanned far in advance and contended that the survey was inserted at 
TWAputa price onyour head tha!evenyourparents m•ghtagreetopay. 
We're out to get you home for the Holidays. Fast. Which is something that your parents will probably enjoy too. 
Something else they'll enjoy is our fares for students. (Students, that is, who are between the ages of 12and 21 and who have TWA's Youth Card.) On a standby basis, you'll get 40% off regular coach fares. 
Which doesn't mean you'll be flying second class or 
anything like that. 
*By lnflight Motion Pictures Inc. on transcontinental non-stops. 
random. 
"t·:ovember is considered a 
'low month' and exceptionally good meals are necessary then," Pri::e said. He used the Special Sunday Brunch on November 16 to evidence this fact. 
He stressed that he has "a relatively free hand to change the menu if the students want to, so long as it stays within the University's budget allocation." 
The last meal before Christmas vacat:on will be lun(;h on Dec. 115 in the north dining hall a.nd dinner that night in the south dinin~ hall. The dining halls will re-open Sunday hnuary 4th for breakfast. 
An attempt is being made to 
keep some food service, either the pay cafeteria or the Huddle open most of the vacation to ! facilitate food service for grad students or faculty who remain 
on campus. 

~****•*A**~*******~***********~'1t 
Applications are now being accepted; 
for the following positions: a 

BUSINESS MANAGER OBSERVER ACCOUNT ANT AD SALESMEN 
Send resurn e to: 

You still get all the great food and TWA features like movies and stereo music~ But it won't cost you like it does everyone else. 
And TWA flies to nearly all the major cities in the U.S., plus we have a special youth fare to Hawaii. 
With all that going for you, there's only one excuse for not going home for the holidays. Getting your hair cut. 
THE OBSERVER BOX II NOTRE DAME,IND. ~ 
46556 
I 

:;:~Ind., 46556. Second class postage ;::;:::L______~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------J
ir:!:W~~f::!~lR=~~~~=!=~~~::~§~'-:::::::::::::~ 
THE OBSERVER.
PAGE 4 




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
SMC Tickets 

The decision by the ticket office to exclude St. Mary's girls from the sale of Cotton Bowl tickets is rather foolish, to say the least. This move is rather incredible in a year when the newly expanded co-exchange program has gone into effect, and administration officials talk about the "Notre Dame-St. Mary's Community." What is being done in effect is that part of the community is being excluded from an event we are participating in for the first time in forty years. 
We can see no reason whatsoever wi1y St. Mary's girls should be excluded from the sales. It is their team just as much as the students at Notre Dame. They cheer just as loudly, and feel just as strongly as anyone else here about the team. Many of the girls have already made plans to go down to Dallas. The people in the ticket office seem to have missed the entire pomt about cooperation between ND and SMC. The students are supposed to be brought closer together by sharing experiences. It is rather difficult to share the experience of a Cotton Bowl game, when the girls can't even get a ticket. 
We call on the ticket office to change its policy on bowl tickets immediately. If there is a shortage of tickets feared, then perhaps the student allotment of 1 ,000 could be increased. After all, this is only one-twelfth of NO's allotment. It is hypocritical to talk of a community, and then deprive part of it of the right to attend an important event. 

The car is a 1969 Corvette owned by Al Kremitsky, a 2nd year law student. It was stolen from the D 2 parking lot on Nov. 16th and was later found by the South Bend Police burning on Sample St. We think there is a need for improved security protection. 
:IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIt 
-:
a =
-

5David Breen; Business Manager Photo Editor: Mike Murphy rhe Observer is published daily : : Timothy H. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin during the college semester except : : News Editor: Glen Corso Features Editor: Dave Stauffer vacations by the students of the : : SMC News Editor: Prudence Wear Night Editor: T.C. Treanor University of Notre Dame and St. : : Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Layout design-Buz Craven Mary's College. Subscriptions may :
S~nn Conway, Laura Haferd, and f8yout-Charlie Myres, Mike be purchased for $8 from The E 
:Jeanne Sweeney Bridgeman Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, : : La~ out E.ditor: Mary Beth headlines-Jan Reimel, Randy Ind., 46556. Second class postage : :Crimmins Young paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. :: 
: : 
.: --= ­
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1969 


Chris Wolfe 
A middle way 
In recent years there has been much increased use of the concept of civil disobedience as a weapon or tactic. Briefly, the thought behind it seems to be this: if one sincerely evaluates a law, and finds it to be. unjust, and is willing to accept the consequences of disobeying that law, then he is morally justified in doing so. 
It is hard to say what exactly has been the stimulus to this increasing use; maybe the "Sartrean view of freedom'. or maybe its simple convenience as a political weapon or maybe a whole variety of things. More likely it is a reaction against long acceptance' of inequitable conditions sanctioned by laws (Jim Crow legislation in the south) and against a passive German acceptance of Hitler's regime which led to horrible consequences. Insofar as it is a reaction ,to these, it is a perfectly natural humanitarian distaste for such 
things. 

The whole issue though raises a very important question about democracy: whether in fact it is really workable. The fundamental principle of democracy is that people will accept the will of the majority until such a time as they may persuade enough peopl<~ of the rightness of their views that they become the majority themselves. If this principle is not upheld then democracy becomes a two-step process of election and then battle to see whether the majority can coerce the minority into accepting its laws. Democracy would thus be reduced to alternate elections and civil wars. 
The real question is whether democracy can work when important matters (concerning justice) are at stake. If it is to work successfully as a peaceful method of government, then the minority must accept this principle. But the belief of civil disobedience is a rejection of this. It holds that in matters of "justice" a minority can claim the right to reject the normal processes of society. 
How can this problem be resolved: It can't be completely, I don't think -there is simply no clear-cut answer that approximates an ideal. But it does seem as if there is a better path, one which will avoid the extremes of abject passivity before any government and a rejection of a basic tenet of democracy. 
The path is this: to reserve civil disobedience to cases not of merely an unjust law, but to cases of unjust laws promulgated by an unjust authority. 
The difficult thing to define here is "just authority", but simply put it is government sincerely dedicated to the common good of society, and not merely to the advancement of only a part. Thus Hitler's government is "unjust" because it was dedicated only to the Nazi ideology. Nixon's government, on the other hand, while it may pass laws that some people consider unjust, is legitimately elected and dedicated to the common good of our society, even if theat idea of the common good differs from the views of others. 
Obviously this does nqt solve everything. The question of just authority is not alway( easy. That question however has a tremendous advantage ov~ the question "is this particular law just (and if not so, I'll disobey it?") The advantage is that it gives democracy a chance to work even on the most important matters of government.· A person can accept, if not like, an "unjust" law, realizing that it is the product of a sincere dedication to the common good, and still hoping to change it through the peaceful democratic process of persuasion and election. On the other hand, in the much rarer cases when the government is itself unjust (when it may have power, but not just authority) then and only then will the citizen reject the authority altogether, with its law or laws. 
This may not be a perfect way of politically organizing society, but it gives democracy a chance while not denying the ultimate rights of human conscience. 
=-·······································································································= 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1969 711B OBSERfiEit PAGE 5 
The party was over 
by Tom Ehrbar 
At that very moment the party gathered its second wind. Morgan, his face conceeding an expression of bland innocence, stepped up two concrete blocks and entered the apartment. The screen door had a busted spring and it banged behind him. 
When it banged something within the girl Morgan had brought quietly released itself. The girl breathed unevenly and glanced about on an awkward neck not knowing which way to go, or what to do. She was a sophomore in college majoring in English lit; a polite, meticulous, almost lovely girl. She was content, she thou~ht, if not happy. For two hours this evening she had listened to the radio. she had sat on a bed with nine of her friends in a big triple in her dorm, popping popcorn and listening to a dreary ritual of numbers and birthdates. She waited for Morgan's birthday. She was shaking inside, yes afraid. A pocket of cold air hid within her chest. 
Occassionally one of the others would blurt out an obscenity or a moan, but the girl did not hear it. She heard nothing, only that November 29 had not been called. And as the ritual wore on, leaving behind certainty and uncertainty, which­ever is more staggering, the girl slipped out of her maroon loafers, got up off the bed, and carelessly plopped herself on the floor. Still she wondered, have I missed his date, I must check to make sure. 
When Morgan's birthdate came up number 35 3 was assigned to it. The girl rolled over on her stomach and tucked her face amid two bent elbows so she could cry unnoticed.She wanted to leap and fly about the room. Respect for the others would not allow it however. Then Morgan called. He was coming over. They 
would celebrate. She had no time to shower, and too lavishly she sprinkled powders and perfumes over her worried sweat. 
The girl hurried down the steps of her· 
dorm, not waiting for the elevator, and in 
her rush and delight she tripped and 
spilled a bag of popcorn she was bringing 
to Morgan. 
In the car, a battered Chevy with a 
hole in the floor board, Morgan said he 
was happy, very happy. He said it twice, 
but still he was not the usual grinning, 
playful Morgan. He sat a little too straight 
behind the steering wheel, stared a little 
too intensely out through the windshield, 
glanced a little too stiffly at the rear view 
mirror. The girl figured it was all due to 
the evening's tension. He needs to relax, 
she thought. 
Morgan and Morgan's feelings were important to her she admitted. Not that she planned to marry him or anything. But she did entertain the possibility from time to time. And now that Morgan was freed of military obligations, well for all practical purposes freed, he might begin to notice her in a more serious light. She prayed to herself that he would, just as the cold Chevy pulled into a parking lot which had its neat lines of yellow wasted 
by cars parked randomly and at every conceivable angle. The two of them crossed to the darkened apartment and then it was that the screen door applauded behind them. 
The girl wanted a sofa and softly rubbed the back of Morgan's neck.. "Hey Morgan, how'd ya do Baby?", a voice yelled. 
Morgan smiled and said almost apolo­getically, "I think I'm OK, 353." Laughs, hisses, insincere blasphemies, Soon a crowd of forms gathered around Morgan, throwing limp arms on his back, handing him a beer, asking him to guess what their numbers were, explaining their elaborate yet absurd schemes, shouting stale jokes about winters in Canada, asking him what he was going to do now. After the clatter and noise subsided, Morgan disappeared to the basement. 
The girl he was with pretended not 

to inind and hid in the kitchen alone 
amid a litter of empty Schlitz,bottles and 
distorted cardboard cartons. It wasn't 
until trom pure exhaustion and bewild­erment she dropped to the floor where a patch of light had been let in from the · moon that she discerned the two figures clumped together as one under a torn 
navy blanket. 

She ran, with no steps, into the living 
room. There a small tribe of slightly 
intoxicated, good, responsible, college kids formed a magical enclave over a simmeri"ng fondou pot, their mysterious faces peering downwards. They com­municated in secret incoherent laughter. 
Before they drove back to her college, Morgan put a board he had in the trunk over the hole in the floorboard to keep out some of the cold. He also apologized, said it was a group party anyway, and just as they reached her dorm, said he had decided to drop out of school and move to Boston. 
Ten more for Spiro T. 
In his never-ending quest to repulse all of the people all of the time, the Vice-president has once again managed to divide and conquer anyone's notions that he possesses anything more than a 'Crush Huntley-Brinkley' bumper sticker. 
Two days ago, the Edsel of the Nixon Administration gave America the "Ten Commandments of Protest." In a rebuttal which can be surpassed only by Agnew's original banalities, I am proud to present "The Ten Commandments of 
Spiro T. Agnew. " 

"Thou shalt insert thy foot in thy mouth at all times. 
"Thou shalt say only that which was oft' thought but never so poorly expressed. 
"Thou shalt cast from thy mind the protests of millions and the findings of the pollsters, finding solace in the LordNixon's Silent Majority. 
"Thou shalt not under any circum­stances speak in a positive or optimis­tic manner; or 
"Thou shalt not bring us together. 
"Thou shalt not attempt to under­stand the actions of protestors, but shalt dispose of them with the words 'effete snobs.' 
"Thou shalt not open thy mind to any but thine own narrow pre-conceiv­ed ideas. 
"Thou shalt not judge a person by 
his ability and intellect, but by his age 
and appearance, casting from thy 
house the long hair and the protestor. 
"Thou shalt do the Lord Nixon's will, but cause him great wailing and gnashing of teeth doing so. 
"Thou shalt not be troubled by thine own protests heard through the media by the masses; but shalt rave and storm at the protests of millions throughout the land. 
"Thou shalt become a household word." 
--brought forth from the Mount by Dave Stauffer in the first year of the Lord Nixon. 
.............................................................................................. 
-.
I • -MARDI GRAS '70 I • 
-

~····································...···········lliJJillllllllllltlllttlllllll~ 
-
•
-
-
.­
.• 

PACKETS FROM FlOOR REPRESENTATIVES 
-
-

• 
•
-
. 
.•
•
•
•
. 
:: ---------­
. 


: DATES FOR RECEPTION OF RAFFLE i 
-.DECEMBER 8,9, & 10~ ~ :: -. ----­
5 -­-
-
-


INCLUDES-2 RAFFLE BOOKS 
.
-

PRIZE CONFIGURATION 
-
•
.

• •
•
•
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
• -
-
• 
.
•

OTHER PERTINENT INFORMATION .• 
.
•
.
-
.
•
•
-
.
-



PLAN AHEAD FOR THIS YEARS 
• 
-


BIGGEST WEEKEND 
NOTE: NO MOTEL ACCOMODATIONS WILL BE 
•
-
• 
-
•
•
-
-


PROVIDED BY THE MARDI GRAS COMMITTEE. 
-
-


MAKE YOUR RESERVATIONS NOW § 
-
• 
-
-

BEFORE THE JANUARY RUSH!!!
~ 
-
~ 

-
-. 
jl•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••P 


P.A_GE 6 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 


MONTEREY POP 
MON, DEC 8-2,7 & 9 TUES, DEC 9 -7 & 9 
NASHINGTON ;IALL 

ADMISSION: CAF Patrons $.50; others $1.00 
-Canned Heat -Eric Burdon and the Animals 
-Simon & Garfunkel -The Who 
-Hugh Masekela .-Country Joe & the Fish 
-Big Brother & the !folding Company -Otis Redding 
-Scott Mckenzie -Jimi Hendrix 
-Mamas & Papas -Ravi Shankar 
-Jefferson Aimlane with Grace Slick 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1969 

Hearing set for N. D. students 
(continued from page 1) Center and Mathematics Build-way the Ten's case before it ing. comes to the Appeals Board as Costello announced a private his reason for silence. meeting of the Board today to 
Prof. Donald P. Costeiio, work out ground rules for the chairman of the University Ap-case and reported that Sunday's peals Court, today outlined meeting will be open to the preliminary proceedings for the public. appearance of the "Notre Dame Costello speculated that the Ten", involved in last month's hearing would be "informal" Dow-CIA demonstration. and that every effort would be 
The "Ten", who e<.rlier this made to prevent its becoming week issued a st:ltement waving bogged down in semantics and their right to go before the rules of order. ­University Court, are scheduled When asked if the Appeals to meet with the Board on Board would consider only evi-Sunday, Dec. 6, at one o'clock, dence pertaining directly to the \n__~oom 21 ~~f__!_he ~o~nuting siHn tactics of th_e Ten or would 
~------------------------------------------------------~~~--~~~~~~~~------------------------------__, 
The burgers are bigger at 

501 DIXIEWA Y NORTH, SOUTH BEND 

Burger King. Home of the Whopper. 

consider the larger issue, that of the desirability of this type of Placement service, Costello said, "The students should take the initiative. We will hear whatever evidence they wish to bring up in their own defense." 
Mansfield to get degree 
Uniteo :states Senate Majority 

Leader Mike Mansfield, D-
Montana, will visit Saint Mary's 
College, with Mrs._ Mansfield on 
December 6 and 7, 1969. Mrs. 

Mansfield is one of a dozen 
persons to receive honorary 
doctorate degrees at a special 
convocation formally closing the 
College's 125th Anniversary 
year. Ma:1sfield has se1 j in tl"!.~ 
U.S. Senate since 1952, follow­ing five terms in the House cf Representatives. His outstanding record and high position have been accomplished following a very unusual beginning. 
Mansfield left school without finishing the 8th grade and joined the U.S. Navy at the age of 14. ln subsequent years, when other youngsters would have been attending high school ;lass­es, he served a one-year hitch in the U.S. Army and theft pro­ceeded to enlist in the· Marine Corps for another two years. 
When Mansfield returned t1.. Montata in 1922, he went to work in the mines in Butte as a miner and mining engineer. HP worked L these capacities until 1927 when he enrolled ir. the Montana School of Mines tn Butte, skipping high school com­pletely. He subsequently attend­ed Montana State University in Misso'ila, now known as the University of Montana, receiving both B.A. and M.A. degrees from th~ institution. From 1933 to 1943, M msfield was Professor of Latfn Am0rican and Far Eastern History at Montana State Universit.{ and is now Professor of History on perman­ent tenure at the University of Montana. 

Hesburgh talks 
(continued from page 1) 
Sen. Spessard Holland, (R. 
Fla.), took issue with Hcsburgh, 
although he stressed he was a 
"moderate" on racial issues. He 
said many black students in the 
South are proud of their ~chools 
and do not want to be forced to 
attend a white school against 
their choice. 
Sen. Norris Cotton, (R. N.H.), 

said he had not made up his -minO about the amendment, but ·did not feel any student "should be forced to be bussed a considerable distance to estab­
lish a racial balance." 
In past years, contended 

Subcommittee Chairman Sen. 
Warren G. Magnuson, (D. 
Wash.), members of the Senate 
committee have had to 
compromise on the amendment 

to get the money bill through -Congress. 
VIRGINIA 


Professor Richard E. Speidel of the University of Virginia School of Law will be conducting interviews for prospective students on Tuesday, Dec. 9th, in Room 154 of the Center for Continuing Education. 
Sign up for an appointment outside Room 101 O'Shaugh· nessv. 

ent 
newty decortsred 4 bedrooms -2 living rooms -2 full baths • fully carpeted • Gr4d students only 



FRIDAY DECEMBER 5, 1969 
p
7NB • 
Super -Security on standby 
A Low Draft Number?? 
by Jim Graif 

From out of the quiet halls Forget Your Troubles of Fisher have arisen two exist­ential super heroes who, dis­
with the "Thymes"
guised as mild manner students are actually the Kamikaze Kid and the Super Seantlebary. Re­Senior Bar Sat. Nite ferring to themselves as benevol­ent Nietzsche supermen, the Dynamic Duo as they wish to be called explained that their pur­pose is to assist the Notre Dame security force in its job. They 
LAST BIG 
• 

feel that while they can't possi­
WEEK

bly replace Mr. Pears and his force, they believe that they would provide a law enforce­ment force with which the students could identify. 
The two heroes had original­ly offl~red their services to the security department but were refused because one has to be a 55 year old postal clerk in order to even qualify for an interview. Therefore they will act inde­pendently, patrolling wherever and whenever their super in­stincts tell them. 
-

-~ @ Indiana Bell I -­
-
:E Use your long distance calling number. Save time. :­
eiiS!IRIDI!R P.ETER FONDA· DENNIS HOPPER 5 Dial your own cans. E JACK NICHOLSON G> lli) : : 
O.o• t.c:IDy P.od..cNt>y .................>d..••• fo•( .. , •• p,od..._., • ­OfNN15 H()PP[R l'f: f(R FONDA Wll LIAM HAYWARD B(Rf SCI'f\lf.(JER COLOH • • 
II HHV SOli If If HN FJ,.I..., ..u b~ f'OlUMUIA ~CTURfS : • 
-

,1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111-= 

PAGE 8 THE OBSERUER. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1969 
.,IM MURRAY


Hockey, B-ball, Swimming, 
Everyone else


Wrestling mark weekend 
has turned blue
There is action in four spots Tournament. ND won the 
head west up the turnpike to scheduled this weekend, with tourney last year and Jim Valparaiso for a game Saturdayonly one meet taking place in Hansen was named the 
night . at 8:30 (EST). Coach South Bend. outstanding wrestler. 
Johnny Dee expects Sid Catlett 

© 1969, Los Angeles Times Tonight at 7:00, the Notre The Irish icers get a to be ready to start and hopes The giant jet greedily gulped oceans of a1r and spewed it out in
Dame Invitational Swimming chance to test their strength for that having his starting five earth-shaking roars of exhaust as it sped high over the prairies and
Meet begins in the Rockne real this weekend when they together will make his defense clocks ran backwards as it churned its way to California.
Memorial pool (admission free) face Wisconsin in a pair of tougher. 
Down in the cabin, the champions of the Coastal Division of the
with six teams including games. Last year, the Badgers National Football League, a geographical absurdity that includes one
defending champ Ball State. It swept from four games, by a Schedule set team on Chesapeake Bay and another on Sherman's historic route towill be the opening contest of combined score of 37-5. This time around,·-the vastly the sea, looked, except for their bulk, like any other casual bunch ofthe year for coach Dennis 
for hockey

improved Irish defense gets a businessmen on their way home from a sales meeting or trade
Stark's swimmers. shot at revenge. "Remember" The 1969-'70 version of convention. 
Fresh from a 33-5 beating of already belongs to Hockey Notre Dame intramural hockey In the front cabin rode the frontliners, the first team players and Valparaiso, rookie coach Terry VOC:I hulary. opens on Sunday night, Decem­their immediate substitutes, or those whose legs were too long and Mather takes his wrestlers to ber 7th, with a game between whose backs were too wide for the three-abreast seating. 
l'mally, having survived the 

Rochester, New York for the Kuchta's Bruins and Kenny's Deacon Jones, wearing a headband that was right out of Texas
Michigan Wolverines last 

R o e-li e s t e r I n viti o n a 1 Black Hawks at the Convo ice Guinan or a John Held cartoon, surveyed· the scene with
Wednesday night,_ t4e N-D cagers rink. Game time for this and all 

droopy-eyed contentment. "Hey, Deac, you got parts of Sonny subsequent matches will be 9:15 Jurgensen still sticking to you," someone yelled. 
The coach, a spare, fussy man with the intense look of a man four-game week basis (Sunday constantly trying to put a watch back together, indulged in a rare p.m. The league will be run on a


No SMC tickets 
through Wednesday nights) with spasm of dissipation and opened a can of beer. "How did Baltimore each of the six league teams 
come out?" he asked no one in particular. It was a reflex action. ForTicket Manager Donald Tuesday, December 9; Juniors, three years, victory-after-victory has been succeeded by the
playing a ten game schedule. 

Bouffard explained yesterday Gr;tduate and Law Students, "how-did-Baltimore-come-out syndrome." Usually, it was "Very
Players unsure of their open­

that no Cotton Bowl tickets Wednesday, December 10; Soph­well, thank you, they're still right there on the radar screen." But,
ing game's date should consult

would be made available to s'Mc omores, Thursday, December on this Sunday night, Baltimore was not even a blip. "Baltimore
the bulletin boards at either the

students. ·11; Freshmen, Friday, December 
finished second," somebody told the coach. Bouffard noted that 1000 12. Office bulletin board. Only The National Football League is now a token pinball game. Of all tickets will be held for Notre Students may purchase one those players who have pain the the contenders, only the Washington Redskins can still frost a glass. Everyone else has turned blue. 
ice rink or at the Intramural 

Dame students, and will go on (1) reserved seat at $3.50. This five dollar entry fee (covering 
sale on a first come, first served represents a discount of 50% the costs of team jerseys and But, no corks pop on the Ram plane. No shouts of "A-a-a-ll r-i basis beginning Tuesday, Dec. 9. from the regular'price. Reduced game officials) by Friday, De­i-ght!" ring down the aisle. No ballooons bobble through the air. The team is undefeated, untied, and unnioved. 
price is based upon personal use cember 5th, will be eligible forAnticipating a large response league play. Those who have not Merlin Olsen, looking like something that ought to be guarding aof the ticket. You must presentto the ticket sales from Notre harem with a ring in its ear, wonders idly about the officiating,Dame students, Bouffard your ticket and Notre Dame l.D. done so should bring the five which he seemed to think could be made into a two-reel comedy. 

card at the gate for admission to dollars in cash or check to thetherefore felt it impossible to Pro Shop at the ice rink by In the second-class section, Dandy Dick Bass, who doesn't getthe Cotton Bowl. Our inade­allot any tickets to Saint Mary's. 

quate ticket supply will not Friday night at the latest and much other exercise these days, uncaps a deck of cards, swirls off hisHe said that he felt that St. 
tape which makes him look like an etching from "Davidpermit more than one ticket per leave it with, or for, leagueMary's girls should not have Copperfield" or the Pickwick Papers, and begins to deal blackjackstudent. president Joe Kuchta.
ticket priorities over Notre for Willie Ellison and Jim Nettles. Occasionally, the fleet end, Jack.O!lme s_tudents. 
Box Office hours are from 9 Snow, who runs about 2,000 yards every Sunday, but only about 12 Student tickets will go on sale a.!fl:_~. 5 p.m. of them with the ball, bets into the dealer busts out a few times
Clothing drive 

at the Athletic and Convocation Students must present their and goes forward in search of an apple, a 'sandwich, a Coke or ~ Alpha Phi· t_;mega, the Notre conversation.
Center Box Office according to I.D. cards when they purchase a 
Dame branch of the National

the following schedule: Seniors, . ticket. Willie Ellison, with one blocked punt and one touchdown, has Service Fraterni.ty, has announ­
starred in the football game, but he is not about to get the game ball 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIJIIIIIII~IIIIIJIIliJIIIIIIIIJJIIIIIIJIIIIIIIU 
ced a Christmas clothing drive 

in the blackjack game. Bass finds more holes in these opponents than 
. ~ HO,ECOMIIfG . : : 
for needy families in, the South 

he ever did in the Coliseum. 
Bend area. 

Beer is usually rationed at two-to-a-customer on Ram homeward5;Picture_s may be picked up in § Students are urged to place flights, and the game plan is to find the tee-totalers aboard, or those 
any clothing they wish to donate 

who took too many butts to the stomach to care about anything
§ the Social Com~ission Office § 
into the boxes provided in each 









stronger than tea, and negotiate for additional supplies. But, on this
• _ From ~ -_5 Thurs. & Fri... 5 of the halls trip, an extra couple of cases have been loaded aboard. It's the most reckless kind of magnanimity for coach Allen, whose idea ofSunshine FesfJvaf celebration is a hot-fudge sundae. With a cherry on top.

CHARLIE'S 

One who is not interested in the beer, the food, the standings, is the great rookie running back, "Whispering" Smith. Larry is
Ftlday Dec. 5 9pm 
enjoying a 3,000-mile nosebleed. Larry got 14 yards and a broken

STEREO 

nose in the last play of the game, and has both nostrils stuffed with
Stepan Center 

cotton. He swallows the blood. He calls everybody "sir" and $1.50 per person 
wouldn:t raise his voice in a theater fire, but his predicamentMUSIC BY: First friday 

TAPE 

symbolizes the game, indeed the season. Pilot-Free Form Jam 
Washington didn't use to play bloody-nose football but under

PRICES 

Vine~ ~ombardi, they play the same kind of teeth-r~ttling,
plus Light Show 
I wanna give 'em away, 

ears-nng1~g football all Lombardi teams play. The Rams are going
by Greater North llay Alchemical Co. 
b4t my wife won't let me 

home With extra beer and not-caring-how-Baltimore-came-out because _they play a game called Go-Get-the-Football. They are not
t---s~p_o_ns..o_r_e_d_b..;;y_'S_tu_d_e_n.;.t,_U.;.;m~·o.;.:n...;;S;.;o;.;;c:.::ia::l:..;Com:::,;,;.:,;m;:i&;;:~;;io~n;,;_~' 
necessarily on defense just because the other people have the ball. They take the position it's just a kind of complicated offense. They 
UST CHARLIE'S 

know more ways to steal than the Lavender Hill Mob. PRICE PRICE 
~he quarterback limps around the clubhouse with an icepack tied 3.98 3.49 


GRAND PRIX 
~o h1s knee after every game. But, on the field with the football with .hn~men_ swarming all over him, Roman Gabriel looks like a tree
4.98 4.39 

bemg climbed by a lot of boys who keep slipping off. 
5.98 5.29
1970 

T~e_ plane set!les down at United ,Freight depot, two hours by
6.98 5.88 

.the clock after It left Dulles International, but five hours by the 7.98 6.89 
hourglass. There is still plenty of beer left and Dick Bass has .8.98 7.79
Applications now being accepted for: 
ace-jack on the last hand. Families are on 'hand, and halfbacks become husbands again and coaches fathers. And the game of life
9.98 8.59 

where you can't always rush the passer, begins as the game of
Public Relations Director 
10.98 9.49 

football fades out. 
11.98 10.39 

For at least one, the assi~tant coach, Joe Sullivan, Nov. 30, 1969, is

Race Chairman 
12.98 11.19 

not the-day-we-won-the-coastal-it is the day mother died. They 13.98 11.99 
brought the news to Joe as he was boarding a bus for the stadium. He sits_ solemnly alone on the long trip home, huddled with his

GP Staff 
memones. A football team is not one story, it's 40 of them. And, as they ~~ragg!e back to private life, the coach calls cheerily after them. Don t forget the me~ting Tuesday!"
Contact: or write: 
M.G. Giannone Grand Prix 
DP£N PAlLY &:-I 

164 Cavanaugh Box 427 
SAl. e..m. 1P ip . .-.. 

283-1408 Notre Dame, Ind. 

PH. 217·1111
n•.LinCIIJn Wav...t 
--~---~ 







