~---------------------------------------------------------------------------­




VOL.III, No. 99 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mar"-y_'s--'Ci'-o_ll_e~ge_Ci_o_m_mu_n_i..:.ty_________T_H_U_R_s_o_A_v..;.._M_A_R_c_H_1_3.;.,_,9_6_9_ 
Mroz, McKenna slated for run-off on Friday 
--·-·-----------·· 
Race ends for Kendall, Apt, Smith, and the rest 
Leaders separated by a I 0 vote margin in the closest SBP race in ND history 
In the tightest Student Body Presidential elections in history, John Mroz edged out Phil McKenna to gain a plurality, but not a victory. The failure of either candidate to gain "fifty percent plus one", has necessitated a run-off election on Friday. 
Both men in interviews ldst night expressed optimism ahout the outcome of the run-off election. Ted Jones, Mroz's running mate commented that "We can win in a run-off. The vote was close, but we were ahead. It's gonna be awfully tight Friday." Fred Dedrick, McKenna's running mate, commented that "When you run on something you believe in, you can come up form hchind to achieve your goals." 
Both SBP candidates definitely stated what their first actions would be if elected. McKenna commented "I would sit down and talk for a week or so with responsible people in order to choose the Student Union Director." Mroz's comments were much along the same lines. "I would first advertise for appointive offices, they would all be on an application basis. Also I would set up the hall issues day, working with the hall presidents to do so." 
Concerning their campaign plans for today, both candidates expressed their intention to usc the same . basic methods they have been using during the regular campaign. John Mroz remarked "In the next couple of days we plan to point out the differences between us. We plan to stress workable solutions in our platform". McKenna said that he and Dedrick would continue their individual contact 
with  the  students. lie also said  
that  he  and  his  running-mate  
plan  to  "hit  every  hall  on  

campus." In McK en na's esti matc, the 

most important issue of the campaign was community and individual development. "The concept of the community geared towards individual development and subsequent development of community is our most basic goal. We have tried to show all that the building of a community entails, and only then to make a personal commitement to this concept." 
John Mroz felt that "The issues were pretty clouded. McKenna and his University Senate idea, didn't get\ the spotlight." Mroz stated that "The overriding issue was who can implement the platform." 
Mroz commented on what he felt was the main difference between him and McKenna. "The main difference is implementation. Ted and I have been involved in Hall life, class governments, Alumni, faculty, Student Government and minority enrollment." 
A statement released by McKenna on implementation reads: "We feel that the key factor in this campaign is personal commitement. 'Implementation' becomes an empty wor if it is not preceded by strong conviction. We have had that conviction in the past in areas of hall life, academic reform, student rights, and the problems of minority groups. Our platform is consistent with our stand on these issues and 
expresses  our  method  of  
implementation."  
When  asked  about  the  

continued on page 2 

Kendall endorses McKenna;
Candidate Votes Percent 
John Mroz 2081 45.9 

Losers retreat from SBP spotlight 
Phil McKenna 2071 45.7 

results in a few pointed farewells 
Mike Kendall 93 2.0 

Seven of the unsuccessful Student Body Presidential candidates 
Alan Apt 69 1.5 

issued statements last night with regard to their defeat in the election. Their statements ranged from observations concerning their 
Kevin Smith 36 .8 

campaigns, to endorsements in Friday's election. 
The candidates who issued their endorsements last night all 
Charlie Brown 35 .8 
Thomas Buckley 24 .5 
backed Phil McKenna. The endorsement, which arried the 
Ed McCartin 24 .5 
most weight, was issued by Mike Kendall, who placed third in the
Philip Welchman 24 .5 
race. In his endorsement statement, Kendall said, "The
Timothy McHugh 22 .5 
reason I'm endorsing McKenna is 
that I feel that our philosophies
Charles Walsh 11 .2 
on what the Student 

John Kraniak 6 .1 Government is all about, coincide. I think we're in 
write-ins 

36 .8 agreement of what the Student Life Council is going to evolve into, the University Senate. We also share a belief in co-education and a substantial increase in minority enrollment. McKenna will be more concerned with improving the day to day life of students and not just structural changes." 
The other two candidates, who expressed a like in McKenna's idea, were Thomas Buckley and Tim McHugh. Buckley stated, "McKenna's ideas come close to what my runningmate and I wanted in this campaign." 
"McKenna," McHugh said, "is approaching the students problem on the hall level. Other than that, there's not much to choose between them." 
John Kraniak, Kevin Smith, Alan Apt, and Charlie Brown refused to give any statement as to who they wish to back in Friday's election 
Ed McCartin issued a statement saying, "Tim McHugh, Kevin Smith, and myself are going to set up a loyal opposition. If Student Government starts this alienation again and sts up another LaFortune elite, we'll be right there to .say something about it." 
McHugh, when questioned about McCartin's statement, said, "There is no formal structure as yet, but we considered issuing a flier if the Student Government ignores issues pertinent to student life. This will be only for constructive purposes, to make students more aware of what's going on, that is if we think they're getting a bad deal. It's more or less to put student 



government  back  on  the  right  
track."  In  addition  to  this  
statement,  McHugh also  said,  

"The two major candidates got the gist of what I was saying. I'm happy to see that they come out more in the last three days seeking greater student awareness about student government. I therefore feel that I was successful in my attempt to transmit my platform to the other candidates." 
Two other presidential hopefuls, Buckley and Charlie Brown, after learning of thier defeat in the election, offered comments on the election turnout. Tom Buckley stated, "I'm a little disappointed about how many people turned out to vote." 
Brown stated the hope that maybe his name and campaign brought some to vote who wouldn't have voted at all. 
Student Body President Richard Rossie issued an urgent plea last night to all those students who had 
maned the ballot boxes during to day's election asking them if they would also make themselves available for service during Friday's run-off election. 

PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER. THURSDAY, MARCH 13, 1969 
Johnny Dee: ''I must move on•••'' 
Dee announces he'll not renew his contract 
Basketball coach Johnny Dee games in consecutive years. And has revealed thJt he will not seek 
we finished with the number an extension of his contract 
two and three scorers in the when it expires at the end of the school's history," Dee explained. 1970-71 season, two years from "This is as far as I want to go now. with coaching. I've enjoyed it. Dee clai.ns that neigher the Guys say, 'Once you're out of it, announcement itself nor its you'll miss it.' Sure I'll miss it. 
timing is related to the past Hell, if I didn't, it wouldn't season. "I'm not nearly so have been any fun while I was in di~a~pointed with this team as a it. 
lot of people are. This is only "In fairness to my family and th<! third time in Notre Dame to myself, and to Notre Dame, I history that a team has won 20 feel I must move on in two 
SMC legislation passes Davis recommendation 
Last night the St. Mary's Leg­islature passed a recommenda­tion submitted by Sally Davis, the present Academic Commis­sioner, concerning the recon­struction of the Academic Com­mission. 

It was recommended that the Academic Commission be re­novated to include an Activities Chairman and an Academic Af­fairs Chairman. 
The Academic Activities Chairman would direct all activi­ties such as Free University, Co­ex Speakers and Gabfests. She 
MICHIANA'S SPORTS CAR CAPITOL 
HELP STAMP OUT V.W.'s-Buy 
ENGLISH CARS 
OFFICIAL BEATLE BEATER! 

New Austin America 4-spd. $1895 
and for those of you whose 
PARENTS are sufferipg from 
the surtax 
'59 MGA-coup, new engine $695 * 
see Jaguar George at 
PEPPER'S MOTORS 
3105 W. SAMPLE ST. 
SOUTH BEND IND. 
289-77R5 
*St,Udent prices only. faculty subject 
would be appointed by the Cabi­net of the Student Body Presi­dent and approved by the Stu­dent Assembly. 
The other affairs such as aca­demic reform and curriculum change would be directed by the Academic Affairs Chairman. She would be elected by the Student Body as their co-ordinator of student representatives to all committees. 
There would also be an Aca­demic Assembly of the student representatives to the College Academic Committees and the advisory board of the Teacher­Course Evaluation Program. 
The chairman of this assembly would be the Academic Affairs Chairman. 
Also discussed at the legis­lature meeting was the recent Student Affairs Committee meeting. At this meeting the recommendation of the legis­lature on smoking in Mateleva was accepted. 
The dress bill which the Jegis­Ja t ure recommended, stating that slacks and shorts would be allowed in the dining hall, was accepted by the Committee, but further restrictions were placed on the bill, prohibiting sweat­shirts and football jerseys in the years. You have to do what the situation dictates. I just want a few other things out of life." 
The 46-year old mentor waid 
he will probably return to 
full-time partnership with his 
Denver law firm. "I've tried to 
do as much work there as 
possible each summer, just 
keeping my foot in the door." In 
addition, Dee hopes to retain his 
line of tennis shoes and 
basketball accessories. 
He rejected the notion that 
his status as a lame-duck coach 
would alter Notre Dame's 
basketball situation. "I don't 
think it will hurt my recruiting 
any, not any more than it will 
hurt at Kentucky where a recruit 
knows Adolph Rupp won't be 
there next year, or at Butler 
where they know Tony Hinkle 
won't be there next year. A high 
awalt run-oH 
continued from page 1 
personal aspect of the campaign, McKenna said, "I feel very good. We've picked up a Jot and I think we can continue the upsurge and win." Ted Jones felt "really enthusiastic when the campaign began and I realize now why Notre Dame IS called a community, because people are 
concerned." 
Jones stated that "we started out ten percent ahead in the polls, and this motivated us and increased the dedication and enthusiasim." Jones went on to say that he felt "the upper class polls weren't accurate as evidenced by the vote last night." On the other hand, Phil McKenna said "Trye polls only showed we were coming up and the results tonight show that we have the momentum to carry us over the top." 
Both candidates felt that the 
various endorsements they had 

dining hall. helped them.
to a 50% increase. 


T 0 NIGH T ' 
• 
school boy can never be sure that the man who. recruits him is the man who will coach him," Dee said. · Dee emphasized that his decision, which has been known to his players for some time. is 
irrevocable. "I guess I've been thinking subconsciously about it for a couple years," he noted. 
Dee was hired in March, 1964. Since then he has posted won­loss records of 15-12, 5-21, 14-14, 21-9 and 20-7. 


Coach Dee 
Student government rights trip slated over Easter break 
Three Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have begun to organize the annual Student Government Civil Rights project. The purpose of this project is to send students to Hampton County, South Carolina, over Easter vacation, to act as volun­teer workers for the NAACP. 
Mr. James Moore, director of the Hampton County branch of the NAACP, is requesting aid in voter registration as well as assis­tance in conducting a poverty survey in the Hampton County area. 
Senior Pete Mcinerney, organ­izer of this year's trip, said that there will be a sign-up meeting held early next week to discuss plans for the trip. Mcinerney said that approximately five cars will be needed to provide trans­portation to and from Hampton County. He added that Student Government will cover all trans­portation costs. 

Prospective Theology Major? 
·Meet with Dr. William G. Storey, the major advisor, and current theology majors. 
7:30 p.m. March 13, 1969 
The Collegiate JOzz Festivo/r-----r_oom_s_oo_ll_bra_,_-----1 
Presents: 
JAZZ SYMPOSIUM 
TOPIC: WHERE IS THE JAZZ AUDIENCE? 
PANELISTS: THAD JONES' GARY McFARLAND, CLARK TERRY, ERNIE WILKENS, DAN MORGENSTERN, REV. GEORGE WISKIRCHEN, REV. CARL HAGER


FREE 

8:00P.M. CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 
The nation~s· gr·eatest jazz festival " 
THE COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL 
9 COMBOS & 9 BIG BANDS COMPETE MARCH 14 & MARCH 15, 1:30 & 7:30PM AFTERNOON SESSIONS $1.00 EVENING SESSIONS $3.00 ALL SESSIONS $4.50 TICKETS IN THE DINING HAI.I.S AND AT THE DOOR 
A STUSOC PRESENTATION 
Run Your Own Ad 
For St. Patrick's Day 
Say hello to her through 
the News Media! 

Three Lines -$1.00 Six Lines -$1.75 
example 
To the third and 435: On March 17 "I want to speak Irish well," but the other 364 ... 
DES 
Come up to the OBSERVER BUSINESS OFFICE Second Floor LaFortune Any Afternoon This Week 

...._. 
THURSDAY, MARCH 13, 1969 'THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 
Eor non-violent studies 
Gulf Oil grants. $100,000 
The c;ulf Oil Corporation, 
Pittsburgh, Pa., yesterday 
announced a $100,000 unrestric­
ted grant to the University of 
Notre Dame, which in part will 
he used to support a student­
proposed academic program in 
the non-violent resolution of 
human conflict. 
Dr. !\lex Lewis, Jr., a senior 
vice president of Culf, said 
Cuif's gift was indicative of its 
"concern for the preservation of 
free do 111 and innovation as 
values basic to the life of the 
university and as an expression 
of encouragement to Notre 
Plans announced for nominations 
Nominations will open Friday for elcdcd positions on St. Mary's student (;overnmenl. 
The positions to he filled by this election arc Student Body President, Student Body Vice-President. Academic Affairs Commissioner, and the Student Representative on the Student Affairs Council. 
On Friday, boxes for nominations will he placed in the signout rooms of all the dorms. After nominations have dosed, the nominees will each be required to write a platform for their intended positions. These platforms will be placed in the dining hall. If more than two girls seck the same position, primaries will be held to eliminate all but the lop two contenders. 
1\n opl'n forum will be held after the primaries. 1\t this time all nominees will be permitted to address the student body. 
The final election will be held March 28, and the new government will take over May 
I. 
Dame and Father Hcsburgh for very enthusiastic response from the leadership they have dis­at least HO'J. of the faculty. I played in their efforts to resolve 
don't sec any prohll'm in attract­campus conflict without campus 
ing people concerned with the violence." 
life style of non-violence. The The proposed Department for 
unique thing about this is that non-violent institutions only
the Study and Practice of the come about when there arc non­
Resolution of Human Conflict violent men, with the inner
through Non-violence was ori­peace necessary for the life style
ginated by Charles McCarthy, of non-violence."
instructor in the Collegiate Semi­McCarthy cited the soaring
nar, and 3H campus leaders, last suicide rate among college stu­
week. Dr. Lewis of c;ulf said, dents as evidence that students
"We at Gulf arc particularly at­live "in an environment of vio­
tracted to this project because it lence. Non-violence must bewas inil ialcd by students." 
learned just as violence is
The implementation of the learned." 
program will be through the "It is significant that everyone
curriculum reform currently 
realize that non-violence is rightgoing on. Father llcsburgh said, for all. We must learn to give up"I am convinced of the academic the self .irnagcs that we have ofviability of what our students people, images that arc narrow­have proposed: the study of ing, static, isolating, and selfish.
non-violence should be a dimen­Merton, Chandi, and King have
sion of any contemporary edu­
shown us the life style of non­cation which is genuinely intn­violence that is necessary toested in preparing students for overcome the hopelessness of aconstructive roles in society." 
future of violence."
Dr. McCarthy reported "a 
Nixon names Hesburgh 
lions of the Commission to the
President Nixon announced President and the Congress have
from the White House yesterday been enacted into Federal Law,
that Rev. Theodore Hcshurgh against a background of eighty
would take nvcr as chaimwn of years with no civil rights legisla­
the U.S. Civil Rights Commis­tion prior to 1957."
sion. l!csburgh, who has been on the commission since its incep­
Ilcsburgh said that he would tion in 1957, replaces Dr. John 
be "staying on for awhile in the Hannah, president of Michigan 
capacity of Chairman." I "I am grateful to the Presi­
State University. "I had planned to retire from 
dent for tt:is opportunity of the co mmrssron this year," 
serving our country anJ him in Father Hcshurgh said. "How­
an area that has always been of grca t concern to me personally:
ever, President Nixon has expres­equal opportunity for all
sed interest in having the !\ mcricans to enjoy life, liberty
commission continue strongly ali and the pursuit of happiness;
its going programs and possibly equal rights for all and equal
inaugurate some new ones. More dignity, too."
than 75% of the rccommenda-


LAST CHANCE!! 
FINAl. TICKET SALES for the 
COMMUNITY FORUM ON BLACK POWER 
(MARCH 16 -20) FeaturlnK 
Adam Clayton Powell HATCHER -GREGORY DEBATE Shirley Chisolm James Farmer 
TODAY & FRIDAY 
In the 

Dining Halls & the Huddle 
(5:30 -6:30) (11:30 -1:00) 
STUDENTS $2.00 ADUI.TS $3.00 
GENERAL ADMISSION TICKETS WILL BE ON SALE FOR $.75 BEFORE EACH EVENT 
DON'T MISS THESE NATIONALLY TELEVISED. EVENTS! 

Total: 2081 2071 93 287 
Percent: 45.9 45.7 2.0 6.4 
With the souna that frees your soul. Unclarnps your ego. Makes you feel and see and touch. And listen. 

Hall-by-hall count 
Hall Alumni Badin Breen·Phillips 
Carroll Cavanaugh Dillon Farley Fisher 
Holy Cross Howard Keenan Lyons Moreau Morrissey Pangborn Sarin Stanford St. Edward St. Joseph Walsh Zahm Off Campus Mroz McKenna Kendall Others 136 137 5 13 59 54 2 13 196 26 
3 25 46 4 
3 161 111 2 4 173 177 3 4 86 139 2 27 70 60 4 23 
62 34 1 16 47 101 8 17 165 94 4 10 65 68 24 19 
13 0 0 52 243 3 25 85 83 4 6 48 78 2 26 173 72 7 4 38 72 4 8 30 7 79 105 3 193 81 6 137 271 12 57 


MS 7194!18 II 0092* 

Bach a Ia Moog. Bach's creations presented to you in electronic garb. Featuring Brandenburg Concerto No. 3 and others. 
Includes all the really big ones by Dylan. The songs have been record· ed very successfully by many other fine artists, but nobody sings Dylan like Dylan. 
ALSO: 
KCS 9700/18 KO 0488* 
The album everyone has or wants. Janis Joplin will wipe you out with "Piece of My Heart," "Ball and Chain" and "Turtle Blues." 
BOOKENDS SIMON & GARFUNKEL 
including: 
BookendsTheme/Overs Fakin'lt/Oid Friends A Hazy Shade of 
Winter Mrs. Robinson 
KCS 9529/18 HO 0420 
Their latest. Without Bookends your record library isn't complete. 
TAPES AVAILABLE 

Reg. $6.95 Now $4.98 Available at the 
Notre Dame Hammes Boo"sfore 
1 Lc Ob~crvcr ts IJ.ui.Jit'.>hcd datly durtny lh<: <.:ullcyc ';CPlcst ..h . . .~. t'ul· vatdltOn) by I he students of the University of Notre Dame and ~l. :·1~,,' ''l Collcqc Subscrtpttons may be purttla~cd for $10 from The Observer Box II, Noire Dame Ind., 46556. Second class poslaqc paid, Noire Oam~ Ind. 
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------L-~h~~Y---------------------------------------------·--~ 
PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER THURSDAY, MARCH 13, 196q 
The Marrieds: A question of "maturity" ;: 
~~~~ 

by Ted Price marrieds--those who are better educated, and . "If your wife doesn't say at least once during the ::::_::..__.::__...:·
.:1 

:;:; This is the fourth of a five-part series on the ;:;: · d t d t t N t D d s M , 
llll ma;~: st:ne:ib~e ~-arr;::e s. before
;r::le::e :: ;:;; graduation, money, and housing and so forth, are the ;:;: usual arguments against it. But these can usually be ;~;~ worked out by a couple who are determined enough, ;:;: and rapidly assume a peripheral status to the more ;:;; basic problem of making the marriage itself work. ~~~~ Most of the couples.interviewed for this series ;:;; agreed that there was a high degree of maturity ;:;: required for a younger marriage. However, they did ;:;: not feel that marriage before graduation was entirely ;:;: out of the question, or automatically doomed to end :;:; in court. } "The first thing you have to take into account " :~:: commented a Senior, "is the fact that couples like ~s 
:;:; have heard all the advice against getting married early, :;:; and have still decided to give it a try. We were fully :;:; aware of all the rhetoric which had been brought up, 
:;:; and we were not blind to it. But Kathy and I felt that :;:; we could make this thing work and were willing to ;:;: take the chance." 
. . :;:; Then is it that because of the point of view of the :;:; culture, because of all the paersuasion to remain :;:; single, that those couples who are getting married :;:; know what they are getting into and are therefore :;:; better prepared to combat the problems? It would :;:; appear so. We should also point out that we are } dealing here with a select group of young 
presumably better equipped to make their marriages work, than the national average. 
ac:o~~in~h~~e sei:er:~i~1tu~enst~~o;~is f:~~~rt a~P~:;:~n;~ 
their outlooks changed after they had entered college, 
marriage provided a still more basic difference in their 
philosophies. 

"I think it all boils down to the question that 
we've all heard about-that of adjustment," said a first-year grad who was married during his junior year. "Marrying and starting a family is quite a jolt to a person, no matter how much he or she may have prepared for it. 
For me, it came shortly after I returned to school 
with my wife. I'd leave a class with a group of friends 
and listen to them shoot the breeze, and I began to 
feel somehow different from them. Yet these were 
the same people that I had known since I started 
school. It was me changing, not them." 

Another student put it this way: "My friends seem to be much less concerned with things, to that are now so important-I am thinking about raising myd h 
aug ter and providing a good home for her and mywife. These are problems that they haven't thought about yet. Their biggest problems are where the party is over the weekend., Married students seem to be much more introspective than others. They are also more honest than one might expect. They refuse to deny that it will be hard, and that it has been hard. 
first year that she's not sure if she's happy being married, she is either some kind of angel, or she is 
P.~~:n;o~?v~ ;~~ht;0b~ea~l~h~~ ~~~~,t~~!d ~~~ ~=~~~~ )
realize that it's just as rough, if not rou~·her, on her as _[..~..~~: it is for you. If you want this to be a fifty or sixty year marriage, you can't go along just assuming that it[_[:;.~ will run itself." .... 
A Junior added, "The most important part of a ~~~~ marriage is the concept of partnership. This is what :::: makes the marriage succeed or fail. Sex is nice, it's ;:;; there, it's enjoyable, but it all means nothing if the ;:;; two persons aren't partners, if they can't share each :::: others problems, and strive for the other's ~~~~ 
happiness." :::: 
Throughout our conversations with the marrieds -~·~.l.l the word "maturity" kept popping up as if it wer~ spring-loaded. The couples emphasized maturity ;~;; rather than chronological age as the key factor in a 
marriage. 
"You have to look at the maturity of the couple, not ofs ihe two individuals," said another grad. In other words, the whole is not equal to the sum of the 
parts. Some couples can marry well at age sixteen. 
Others who marry at middle age, end up being 
divorced." 
of the Sociology Department (or a look at the :;:; socio-cultural problems which confront young r marrieds. ::::
:___.::____:_:_:___:_:_.::=.::.:::.:..=.::.:::._::.:_:::.:._~:.:..::::_:::_~_:...:.:~:::____, ____________________________;::::: 
ARE YOUTH£ WINNER OF THIS BEAUTY? 

Of course we mean the Polaroid Swinger that was given away Monday, March J0. The Winning Number Is 
304056 

You can claim your prize by presenting the matching stub at the Bookstore any day of the week! 
Also, take a chance on another Polaroid to be given away March 31. 



VOTE • 
' 

SBP RUN-OFF ELECTION 
TOMORROW 
IN THE HALLS 11:30-1:00 5:30-7:00 
OFF CAMPUS OFFICE BASEMENT LAFORTUNE 
9am -7pm 

REMINDER: 
SENIORS ARE ELIGIBLE TO VOTE 



