.-------------------­
THE WORLD TODAY 
Demonstrations continue at Columbia 
(UJ>I) -Radical students took over two Columbia University 
buildings Wednesday, brushing aside a court injunction against such 
seizures and a handful of other students who tried to stop them. 
Black students occupied the president's office at the University of 
Louisville and said they would stay put until he meets their 
demands. 


E OBSERVER 

Servin!{ the: Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
THURSDAY, MAY 1,1969
VOL. Ill, No. 126 

Sociology students carried a building occupation at Howard Uni-.:ersity into its third day. 
SMC debates frosh curfews
Members of Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) took over the Columbia University mathmatics building early in the day and by Jeanne Sweeney later occupied Fayerweather Hall, another classroom building. special time when they did not
A bill to liberalize the existing 12 a.m. on weekdays and 2 a.m. 
Members of the Students for Columbia University, a group on She want to be in by 12 or 2 o'clock. 
freshman curfews was the main weekends. proposes to 
opposed to disruptive demonstrations, tried to keep the SDS When a freshman used one of
topic of discussion at last night's alter the current procedure of 
members from closing the doors of Fayerweather Hall but were these late permissions she would 
meeting of the St. Mary's Legis­being campused if over 15 min­
shoved aside in a brief fistfight. be given the upperclass privilege 
lature. It was the final session utes late are accumulated. Miss of coming back into the dorm at
for the Legislature, which will be Tracey would like to give theMrs. King marches on hospital replaced by the newly-created freshmen a more flexible late any hour of the morning. 
In the present system fresh­Student Assembly following the system by giving them 30 min­men must either be in by theirl PI) -Mrs. Martin Luther King, Jr. walked yesterday where her elections next week. utes of accumulated late minutes curfews or sign out 24 hourslate husband had walked hundreds of times in cities across the The bill considered was pro­before campusing them for a ahead of time and not be al­

South-at the front of more than 1,500 Negroes in a protest march. posed by Ann Marie Tracey. weekend. 
lowed back into the dorm until
She said she was doing so to fulfill "my husband's dream." Although there is a bill cur­Also included in Tracey's pro­6 a.m., when the dorm officially With a blue labor union cap on her head, she led a march f· Jm a rently up before the Student posal is a system of three special opens. Upperclassmen can comechurch to the South Caroline Medical College Hospital and back, a Affairs Committee which pro­late permissions during the se­into the dorm at any hour of thedistance of almost two miles, in support of striking Negro hospital poses the abolition of all curfews mester. These special late per­
morning because of their
workers. for second semester freshmen, missions would give the fresh­
men three when no-hours privilege. 
The march was without incident, but more than an hour arter it Miss Tracey's bill was mainly nights they Through her system Miss Tra­
broke up, a brick was hurled through the window of a variety store concerned with first semester would receive the privilege of cey would hope to alleviate theand an angry group of Negro teenagers began milling around in the freshmen. having no curfews, which the problem of freshman signing out
street. Miss Tracey does not propose upperclassmen have now. 
for the whole night, and thento change the first semeester In this way freshmen could to be admitted
freshman hours, which are now use these late permissions at anv not being able
Pompidou wins strong support 
into the dorm until 6 o'clock the next morning which is their only (UPJ) The key Republican Independents, led by Valery Giscard 

Horror films spark 
alternative if they want to stayd'Estaing, swung their support behind Gaullist candidate George 
out past their curfews. Pompidou yesterday, making him the man to beat in the election to 
The legislature argued over find a successor to Gen. Charles de Gaulle. this proposal for hour and a
an The 61 member National Assembly group of the party voted 
Cinema '69 feud 
half. A few members of the UJ•animous endorsement of Pompidou, meaning that all Gaullist Dave Kahn, chairman of the "Every freshman in the Uni­legislature were very concerned factions and allied groups now had rallied under the banner of the Cineman '69 film ser.ies, is com­versity must see Marat/Sade; this about giving first semester 57 year old ex-premier less than three days after the fall of de Gaulle plaining to Rev. Charles McCar­is guaranteed profit," said the freshmen this liberal system be­from power. raghcr, Vice President for Stu­CA instructor. "David couldn't cause they felt that the first The decision of the independent group, which usually supports dent Affairs, that a portion of a possibly lose money." semester was supposed to be an 
the Gaullist in parliament, was significant because it was made with horror film festival scheduled for He also notes the fact that the adjustment period. 
the full assent of Giscard d'Estaing. Giscard's decision to oppose de the weekend of May 9-11 con­Cinema '69 screening runs for Other members agreed to the Gaulle in the referendum was considered partly responsible for the flicts with a previously sche­four days, so that students who three late permissions, but general's defeat and resignation Sunday. duled screening of Cinema '69. wished to see one evening's set wanted to put a limit on the 
The conflicting films involved of horror films could still see number of weekend sign-outs for are Marat /Sa de sponsored by the Marat/Sade on another night. freshmen because they felt that
55 Viet Cong killed near Da Nang film club and a series of horror the system was being abused by flicks sponsored by a group of (Continued on Page 3) freshmen.
SAIGON (UPI) -U.S. Marines ripped into a force of North 
Communications Arts students
Vietnamese regulars on the banks of the Vu Gia River near Da Nang 
headed by CA instructor Samuel 
Wednesday and reported killing 55 in fighting that raged in to the 
Racism project begins
McClelland.
night. American jeb bathed Communist ranks with napalm. 
McClelland admits that the
UPI correspondent David Lamb said six Marines were killed and screenings do conflict, but Even with doubtful financing, prime concerns of the project.
24 wounded in the day long battle 12 miles southwest of Da Nang, an 
does not feel that such a conflict the Project to end Racism "will One is personal racism, that isarea known as "Arizona territory" because of its resemblance to the should force the cancellation of begin anyway," according to the attitudes of a person whichbadlands of the Old West. 
either engagement. SBP Phil McKenna. There has have been acquired over theLamb said many of the casualties were inflicted by a mortar shell "On a campus of 7000 stu­been "no commitment from the years. The second though, insti­which crashed into a command post. 
dents, most of them interested university," McKenna said. He is tutional racism, is usually more in one kind of film or the other, waiting for Father Hesburgh to subtle.
Egyptians fire across Suez 
it seems possible for two films to return to campus, in order to "Institutional racism is the run simultaneously," said Mr. request money for the project system that keeps blacks infer­
(UPI)-Israel accused Egypt of firing the first shots yesterday in new artillery dueling across the Suez Canal less than 12 hours after McClelland. from him. ior. An example would be col­
Kahn disagrees. The senior lege admissions. The blacks
an Israeli foray deep into Egyptian territory within 60 miles of the McKenna has not made up his 
Aswan Dam. foresees a possible financial crisis mind as to who will head the receive a poor primary and sec­if the scheduled horror films are ondary education, we use this to
Israeli communiques said the raid Tuesday night was carried out program. He plans to pick some­
shown. one who is "very knowledgeable deny them admission to college.
by commando forces on the ground who inflicted heavy damage on Nile River dams, bridges and power lines serving Cairo. Dispatches "We have asked him to revise in racism, and who is willing to Yet we are at fault, because we 
his programming so that it does gave
from Tel Aviv said wide areas of Egyptian farmland were flooded. devote large amounts of time to him this poor education." 
not conflict with our screening the project." The project entails a room in of the MaratfSade show, for it La Fortune Student Center
No matter what happens over

Pope appoints 33 Cardinals 
would incur a financial loss of the question of financing, which will be stocked with vari­about $500," argued Kahn. McKenna plans to "set up the ous anti-racist literature. It will (UPI) -Pope Paul VI presented the red hat of cardinalship to 33 Kahn adds that other movies 
be staffed so that interested new princes of the Catholic church yesterday and accepted the have been rescheduled before 
room, and distribute literature. 

It will be somewhat effective, students can discuss the prob­
resignation of another, Vatican Secretary of State Amleto Cardinal and has offered to pay "for any lem. Also planned are several
but not as effective as if we had Cicognani. corrective publicity." some money." educational endeavors such as The pontiff announced both the resignation of Cicogna!'li, 86, and "There are a number of stu­One of the aims of the pro­mass teach-ins, guerrilla theater, the appointment of Jean Cardinal Villot, 63, of France as his dents on this campus who will ject, is to "keep the students seminars, a freshman orientation successor during installation ceremonies for the largest class of new see films just for entertain­
continually aware of racism." In program, and encounter groups 
cardinals in the church's history. Four of them were Americans. ment," said Mr. McClelland this way, McKenna hopes that it and sensitivity sessions. The 
Age and the fact he has failing eyesight apparently were factors in "These horror films project will also encourage home 
will get to some people and Cicognani's resignation. will offer them a choice of what cause a change in their attitudes. town projects aimed at ending they may want to see and many "People think that rayism is racism and to assist in South Russia won't study moon rocks of them will choose the horror primarily prejudice. That's not Bend projects. films." true. Many people go along with The threefold purpose of the Kahn mentioned that the Cin­the Negro, yet unconsciously project will be, "cooperation
SPACE CENTER, Houston (UPI)-Russia and other Iron Curtain 
ema '69 film series was planned with the Afro-American Society
countries were given a chance to study the moon rocks to be contribute to keeping him 
to run at a loss, with a subsidy down," McKenna declared. to establish programs relevant tobrought back by American astronauts but turned it down, a U.S. 
granted by Fr. McCarragher to McKenna felt that the project Blacks; education of whites in ascientist said Wednesday. 
fill the deficit. "Will be effective if it reaches personal manner and to serve asProfessor Paul Gast of the Lamont Geological Observatory in McClelland, however, can't people and makes them think." a pressure group for the elim­Palisades, N.Y., said a Russian scientist he talked to about the rocks see how Kahn could possibly ination of all forms of institu­
was not interested because "he thought they were going to beat us MxKenna cited two types of 
lose $500. tional racism." 
racism, which would be thethere." 

THuRSDAY, MAY 1, 1969
THE OBSERJJ£R.
PAGE 2 


Showings Engineering at 7:00 Auditorium & 10:30 



SUPR Student Union 

Public Relations 

Applications now 
being accepted for: Associate Co -ordinator Special Projects Chairman 
General Staff  
Send Resume to:  Jay Harmon c/o SUPR Box 427 Notre Dame  


WORK WITH THE #1 TEAM 
1 

Friday, May 2 Saturday, May 3 Sunday, May 4 
2 

Friday; May 9 Saturday, May 10 Sunday, May 11 
MASK OF THE RED DEATH 
KING KONG TALES OF TERROR HUNCHBACK OF NOTRE DAME 
FRANKENSTEIN CURSE OF THE WEREWOLF 
MARK OF THE VAMPIRE TOMB OF LIGEIA 
LITTLE SHOP OF HORRORS 
THE FLY 
DRACULA 

ATTACK OF THE CRAB MONSTERS 
3 FREAKS 
Saturday, May 17 CREATURE FROM THE HAUNTED SEA TELL TALE HEART CASK OF AMONTILLADO 
VILLAGE OF THE DAMNED

Sunday, May 18 
CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON 

ROADRUNNER CARTOONS EVERY NIGHT Club members admitted to all films FREE 
Life membership $3.00 $. 75 per evening 
TIFFANY&CO. 
T15 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE. 
CHICAGO 

PHONE: 944-7500 • ZIP: 60611 
Safes fax additional 

The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 
--------~­
PAGE 3 

Guy DeSapio Jung 
Would you believe 

·······~···················
They claim that truth is stranger than fiction-and at times there seems to be no doubt about it. For example, California was supposed to sink into the sea yesterday-or at least that's what Prophetess 1can Dixon claimed. Or rather, people claimed that she claimed. She called a press conference last week however and announced that any report that tied her with rumors of California's demise had no basis in fact. 
The report got started someplace though and it caught on like wild fire. It is hard telling how many people really believed it, but it is safe to assume that enough people really wished that it would happen. Not so much because they have anything againstCalifornia, but because people usually hope that at least once something that some fortune teller predicts will happen will actually happen, just so that they can tell the skeptics "I told you so." 
In case you haven't heard the entire story, California was suppmed to experience a series of earthquakes this month that were supposed to shake it off of itss;ubtcrrainean foundation, after which it was supposed to float out into the sea and sink. Now the chances of that happening arc slim-like about 0 in 7,438,964. But whether or not it ever happens isn't really as interesting as what the suggestion of its happening has led people to do. 
Take the California Club for example. Jack Girardi, past president of the club, had ordered the transfer of the club's entire treasury to a Swiss Bank account all ten dollars of it. During April, the Club had an American Flyer Charter Constellation at the St. Joe Airport waiting to fly them to Switzerland as soon as California was gone. Girardi claims that once they got there they would usc the money to purchase Scuba gear and charter a steamer out of England in order to conduct salvage operations off the coast of let's see what is it? Arizona 
And out in California the politicians have taken advantage of the situation as they usually do at times when the fears and emotions of the mass of people arc involved. Mayor Joseph Alioto of San Francisco took the opportunity to throw a gala "San Francisco Earthquake Anniversary Party" which one hundred people atttended at the outrageous hour of 5: I 5 a.m. In addition, he commissioned a poet to write a poem on the whole event. 
Then there":~-Barry Goldwater. You remember that in 1964 he stated that as far as he was concerned they could cut off the whole eastern ~caboard and float it out to sea. Well, it seems that he is worried that somebody took him seriously and 1figured that Goldwater was worried i.lbout the fi.lr left instead of the right and so is working on the wrong end of the country. 
Now there i.lre all kinds of i.lrgumcnts going on in California itself about who is responsible for the whole !ness. The Berkeley Barb is bli.lming (;ov. Roni.lld Reagan i.lnd di.liming that if Californian's i.lre stupid enough to Wi.lnt Reagan for a Governor they deserve anything thi.lt mi.ly come their way. And the geologists are claiming it's San Andreas' fault whoever she is. 
Now whi.ltcver happens we can tlli.lnk Ci.llifornia for giving us Disneyland i.lnd the cartoonists who draw caricatures for the Observer's columnists. 
>I< >I< >I<>!< >I< 

In the "truth is stanger than fiction" column one might i.ldd this little item from World War II. It is the mobilization order to the Fthiopians made by the Emperor Haile Selassie when Mussolini begi.ln the invasion of the country in 1935: "Everyone will now be mobilized, i.lnd i.lll boys old enough to carry a spear will be sent to Addis Ababi.l. Married men will take their wife to carry food and cook. Those without i.l wife will take any woman without a husband. Women with small bi.lbies need not go. The blind, those who cannot walk or for any reason cannot carry a spear are exempt. Anyone else found at home after the receipt of this order will be hanged." 
by two NO drunks 
Dr. JuneK. Singer, an analyti­cal psychologist, lectured on "Why 1ung Now? " last night in the Library Auditorium. The lec­ture, which was held in conjunc­tion with the Collegiate Seminar, was accompanied by a colloqui­um with Dr. Singer, faculty members and students participa­ting. 
Dr. Singer emphasized the as­sociation of 1ung with Freud and their eventual split with 1ung developing his own theor­ies. From 1907 to 1912 Jung was a disciple of Freud and was included in his Vienna circle. She explained that Jung consi­dered "Society as part of the individual and the individual i.lS part of the society." In descri­bing 1ung's theories Dr. Singer noted that "J ung was most con­cerncd with each person ful­filling his potential." 
1ung's principles have been adopted by more and more psychologists in recent years. Others, who Dr. Singer described as "less academically occupied groups" have found lung's methods very effective, she ex­plained. 

Jung's beliefs that "The two most important concerns of man are sexuality and the archaic vestiges in modern man" are the reasons for its popularity. A­nother important factor is that the tendencies in Psychology are away from the psychoanalysis techniques. In this area Dr. Sing­er commented that "J ung was not as concerned with healing the sick as furthering man's ten­dency toward wholeness." 
Film dispute rages, creates Frankenstein 
(Continued from Page I) 
lie added that McClelland broke an agreement between Cinema '69 i.lnd the Communica­tion Arts department. 
"Mr. McClelland has violated a contract with the C A depart­ment established during the sum­mer of 1968 which entitles the Film Society to engage in fall 
programming  without  destruc­ 
tive  interference  from  the  CA  
department."  

Kahn did say that the agree­ment was not in written contrac­tual form. The instructor said that he hi.ld suggested the horror film series as a method of raising money for the projects of his television production class. In particular the money is to be used for the film transfers of the class assignments. "If we arc not permitted to show these films, the only people who stand to lose arc these students," concluded McClelland. Fran Maier, a junior in Mc­Clelland's class, stated, however, that McClelland's class "agreed to accomodate the Film Soci­ety's programming of 
MaratfSade." 

At least three other of McClel­land's students disagree with Maier's statement. Sophmore Gary Baim said that the class "discussed more than veted" on whether to reschedule the films. 
exams," Hillock continued~Many students in CA need these films so that they get transfers of their films." 
Mike Cerre called the conflict between the two movies "unin­tentional." 
"The only intention of the CA department, reJ)resented by Mr. McClelland, is to finance some of the projects of the 
television production course," said the senior. 
"The problems of reschedu­
BSS8Uited ~~fm~ere 
not brought up," said
SMC student 
A St. Mary's girl was thrown in St. Mary's lake Sunday morning, by an intoxicated Notre Di.lmC student. A second student tried to throw the girl's friend in, but she "hit him in the face whith her handbag, and ran away," according to Arthur Pears, director of Security. 
A group of Notre Dame students witnessed the event and ran after the two men, and managed to catch one of them. lie was "taken to Saint Mary's, i.lnd turned over to their security force," Pears said. The student was held for approximately two hours, and questioned. lie then led the security gurads over the Notre Dame campus, in an effort to find the other student involved. The guards "stopped at several halls" according to Pears. 
There were reports that the girls were preparing to press i.lSsault and battery chi.lrgcs against the Pi.lir. 
"I'd say that it depends on what the Dean of Students does," Pears declared when questioned on this. The students are scheduled to see the Dean of Students, Fr. James Riehle, later this week, or early next week. 
Pears said that when he last saw the girl she was accompanied by a Notre Dame law student, and told him that "At this time I do not think I want to prefer charges." Pears stressed that the girl emphasiz.ed the words "at this time". 
"I thing it is also pending on what her parents do," Pears said, "She has not ruled legal action." 
Pears also refused to disclose the names of either the Notre Dame students, or the Saint Mary's girls that were thrown in the lake. 
Bob Rigney, former judicial coordini.ltor, who was said to be helping the two students in their defense, refused to comment. 

Senior Lloyd Hillock men­tioned that most of the class was not present when the discussion on rescheduling was carried on. 
"Those weekends were the only ones open before final 
Campaign: May 4, noon to 
------·----~-----------­
Those taking part in the col­loquium were Professor Ander­son of the Psychology Depart­ment, Prof. Turley, Father Cava­naugh, and Sr. Charles of Psychological Services. 
SMC makes appointments 

The i.lppointment of nine new members of the Saint Mary's College Parents Council board of directors has been announced by Rt. Rev. Msgr. 1ohn J. McGrath, college president. 
Named to the executive 
board were Mr. and Mrs. James 
T. Butz or Mount Prospect, Ill., Mr. and Mrs. William E. Cotter, Jr., Pittsburgh, Pa., Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Currigan, Denver, Colo., Mr. and Mrs. Edward 1. DeBartolo, Youngstown, Ohio, Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Dougherty, Saint Louis, Mo., Dr. and Mrs. Urban Fleege, Oak Park, Ill., The Honorable i.lnd Mrs. Daniel 1. McNamara, Chicago, III., Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Patterson, Framingham, Mass. and Mr. and Mrs. Robert 1. Tiernan, Des Moines, Iowa. 
The Saint Mary's Parents Council was established to strengthen the ties between the college and the parents of its students, and to utilize the professional skill and direction of the parents in the formulation of pli.lns and programs for the school. 


THURSDAY, MAY 1,1969

PAGE4 
THE OBSERVER. 
ND takes one-run decision from Wolverines 
However, they were left stab by Michigan leftfielder John making the catch but he escaped 
Notre Dame defeated Michi­and retired four men in order 

stranded. Kraft that robbed Schmitz of an without injury. 
gan yesterday afternoon, 2~ 1, with the help of a game ending 
DuLac added another run in apparent homer with two men The win extended Schmitz's 
on Cartier Field. The win got double play. 
the fifth when Nick Scarpelli on in the second. Kraft hooked record to 3~1. Fife took the loss 
revenge for a previous loss to the The Irish wore out four pitch­
walked and then advanced a base his glove on the fence after for Michigan.
Wolverines at Ann Arbor. The ers for the visitors yet they had 
on each of Fife's three wild lllliiiiDimmOIHili.IIIIII-IIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIt 
Irish record now Stands at 6~ 7. only 3 hits. Control trouble pitches.
The game was a hotly con­plagued the Michigan hurlers for 

Both teams threatened in al­
tested affair right down to the the entire nine innings. NO 
most every inning but neither 
Lnal out. Michigan had starter scored first in the 4th when 
culd push a run across until the 
Ron Schmitz on the ropes a catcher Joe Keenan greeted 
Michigan 8th. The Wolverines 
number of times throughout the UM's first relief pitcher, Dan 

sport~ parade
put three singles together to 
game but they couldn't put him Fife, with a high line drive home 
produce a run. Catcher Tom 
away until the eighth inning. run to left. The Irish then got 
Lundstedt got the rbi. 
Schmitz gave up ll hits over 7 two men on via the base on balls The game was high-lighted by By Milt Richman, UPI sports columnist 2/3 innings but yielded only 1 and they advanced to third with 
some spectacular outfield play. 
run. Bob Jaeger came on in relief no one out on a wild pitch. ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
The best of these was a brilliant 
Broadway Joe and an expensive belt 
NEW YORK (UPI) ~ Marilyn Monroe was the last one ever to tie
Netters lose on the road 
up traffic like that here. They were filming "The Seven Year Itch" on Lexington A venue The Notre Dame Tennis squad ble catastrophy on Tuesday by de­and everything came to a dead stop when they got to the scene molishing LeSage 6~0, 6~0. NO
suffered two defeats on the road Against Purdue, NO fell be­showing her skirt blow up. this week, one close and the hind early as Mike Reilly and won only one set the entire The snarl up Tuesday afternoon was bigger. Same avenue but match, that coming during the
other~ah, not so close. The Irish Tim Whiting could salvage only different set of circumstances. fell to Purdue on Monday by a two of the six singles matches. first doubles contest. Nobody's skirt was blowing up, it was merely Joe Namath point, 5~4, then ran into a Then Reilly and Bernie LeSage standing there on the curbstone and letting his hair down. .
Crew victorious 
Hoosier buzz-saw at Indiana­combined to take the first dou­The occasion was the official presentation of the $10,000 Hickok polis, 9~0. bles contest. With the score at Last Saturday the Irish Var­Belt which Namath was voted last February as the Professional 
Against Purdue, NO fell be­4~3, however, Jim Faught and sity easily defeated Grand Valley Athlete of the Year. Ordinarily the recipient gets the big gold, hind early as Mike Reilly and Tony Early dropped their dou­State College and S.U.N.Y. Buf­diamond studded belt on the spot but Joe has been a pretty busy Tim Whiting could salvage only bles match 6~4, 7~5 to seal the falo on the 2000 meter Grand boy the last three mopths. two of the six singles matches. defeat. River course in Grand Rapids, So Rae Hickok the boss of the firm, brought the belt dowl} from Then Reilly and Bernie LeSage Indiana's No. 1 singles man, Michigan. While at home, the Rochester himself and handed it personally to Namath on the combined to take the first dou-Dave Brown, set the stage for Frosh walked away from the curbstone outside his restaurant Bachelor's III, as the TV cameras 
Lane Tech eight of Chicago whirred, dozens of goggle eyed pedestrians stopped and stared and winning by four lengths. most of the conveyances of the avenue~ private cars, taxis, buses and 
Rowing in an ancient and even two U.S. mail trucks--slowed to a crawl or came to a complete borrowed shell the Varsity eight stop for an extra glimpse of the young man with the laughing eyes eased into a half length lead and dimple in his chin who has captivated the imagination of people after the start rowing at 38 like no other athlete since Babe Ruth. 
Maloney .. no hitter 
Nationai~East American~ East 

strokes per minute. After 500 "This is really something," Namath said, smiling self-consciously Won Lost Pet. GB meters Stroke Tom Powers there on the curbstone as he looked at the magnificent belt Hickok 
Won Lost Pet. GB CHI 16 7 .696 BALT 15 7 . 682 dropped the stroke four points hauled out toward him for the express benefit of the photographers . 
PITT 13 8 .619 2 BOSTON 11 9 .550 3 to a 34 as the Irish pulled away "I've been trying to get together with you," Hickok said to 
N.Y. 9 .11 .450 5% DET' 10 9 .526 3% from the field for an uncontes­Namath, both being shoved by the huge crowd which had rapidly 
PHIL 8 11 .421 6 N.Y. 11 10 .524 3% ted victory and a winning margin congregated. ST.L. 9 12 .429 6 WASH 12 11 .517 3% of a length and a half over Grand "I know," said Broadway Joe. MONT 7 13 .350 7% CLEV 2 15 .118 
10% Valley and four lengths over "I was in Florida on my way to the Keys and I heard you were West West Buffalo. down there too, but I just missed you," Hickok said. Namath The Irish Sweeps will remain nodded.
S.F. 14 6 .700 L.A. 14 6 .700 
MINN 13 7 .650 home next weekend preparing "Hey Mister!" a man in the crowd addressed Hickok, "Is that belt 
OAK 10 8 .556 2 

for the Dad Vail Nationals on really worth $1 0,000?"
ATL 14 7 .667 % CHI 8 8 .500 3 
CINN 9 11 .450 5 K.C. 9 10 .474 3% May 9 & 10, and on the follow­"Would you believe $30,000?" Hickok smiled, quoting one price 
S.D. 9 14 .391 6% CAL 6 9 .400 4% ing weekend for the Ohio River it has been appraised at. HOUS 4 20 .167 Regatta against Brown, Wiscon­"Joey, oh Joey, please look at me!" a young mini-skirted girl with 
12 SEA 7 11 .389 5 

sin and Harvard. The Irish are big amber eyeglasses hollered at the Jets' quarterback. now 8-3 against all opposition. In one of life's little tragedies, he didn't hear her. Namath, among a million other things, is writing a book with Dick Schaap, the author who did such a good job with Green Bay's Jerry 
12 -game baseball statistics 
Kramer on "Instant Replay." "You gonna tell everything in the book?" someone asked
Won 5, lost 7 

Namath. "Everything," Namath said. "I'm gonna tell it like it is." "I understand you're gonna tell about the first girl you made love 
G AB R H RBI 2b 3b HR TB SB BB so AVG PO A E 
to," the guy said. 

Bob Jaeger, p 3 2 0 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 .500 1 0 0 
"That's right. It's in the book. But I'm not sure it'll be left in."
Joe Keenan,c 8 18 6 4 1 0 0 7 0 .333 35 3 3 
"Where did it happen?"

Rich Lucke, of 11 33 4 11 1 3 0 0 14 0 4 4.333 6 2 0 
"In Beaver Falls." 

Nick Furlong, p 4 8 2 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 .250 0 7 0 
"How old were you?"

Tom Lux, 3b 12 40 5 12 6 0 0 13 0 0 8 .245 10 27 0 
"That'll be in the book too."

Chuch Horan, of 5 9 2 0 0 0 0 2 0 1 3 .222 9 1 0 
Later on when he had moved inside his restaurant, Namath said an
Nick Scarpelli, 2b 12 51 4 11 1 1 0 14 0 3 4 .216 23 42 2 
account to the effect that he spent the night before the Super Bowl 
Rob Voitier, rf 11 42 6 9 3 0 0 0 9 2 8 6 .214 11 3 3 
game with a girl was correct.

Jim Wright, c 9 30 5 6 7 0 1 11 0 0 11 .200 60 5 
"I got my rest though," he put in quickly. "Besides, a doctor told
Ron Schmitz, p 5 10 0 2 2 0 0 3 0 0 2 .200 2 8 0 
me it was good for me to relax like I did." 
Joe McCarthy, of 7 16 0 3 2 0 0 0 3 0 0 .188 4 0 0 
A Million for O.J.? Sure. Joe Namath talked a great deal inside his 
Jim Gieselman, of 11 27 6 5 3 0 1 1 10 11 5 .184 15 1 3 
restaurant.

Phil Krill, ss 12 41 4 7 0 0 0 7 5 10 .171 18 36 3 
He said he hopes O.J. Simpson gets a million~"whatever he gets
Bob Arnzen, p 6 12 0 2 3 0 0 0 2 0 3 .166 2 11 0 
I'm for him"~and that his own contract with the Jets runs two more
Jim Phelps, p 4 7 0 0 0 0 1 0 2 .143 0 6 0 John Rogers, 1b 11 32 5 4 1 0 1 0 6 1 4 6 .125 104 7 5 years. "My legs are not in as good shape as they were a year ago Dick Licini, 1b 2 5 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 5 o 1 but I hope they will be by the time we go to training camp. How Steve Smith, 1b 4 3 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 .000 11 o 1 many more years am I gonna play? I don't even know how many 
Tom Sinnott, p 3 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 1 1 0 games I'm gonna play. All I know is I love football and want to keep Bill Orga, of 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 0 0 0 playing it." Ray Klein, c 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 4 0 0 Namath said he had to catch a plane for Miami where he has a 
Denny Patrylo, if 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ,000 0 0 0 hearing scheduled Friday over a nighttime traffic incident earlier this Bill Schoen, if 3 month. Bob Mysliwiec, p 1 "I was wrong in breaking the speed limit and I was wrong in NOTRE DAME TOTAL 12 403 44 84 36 7 4 2 105 5 40 69 .208 322 159 speaking the way I did to the policeman," he said, "but I wasn't 
OPPONENT TOTAL 12 415 49 109 41 15 5 6 152 10 51 92 .263 327 drinking and I wasn't intoxicated." Double Plays: Notre Dame 9, Opponents 6 When he came in from the street and sat down in his restaurant GA GS CG w L IP R ER HA BB so ERA Tuesday, a waitress obligingly placed two drinks in front of Joe
PITCHING STATS 
1 0 0 0 0 02/3 0 0 0 2 1 0.00 Namath. Now it was a good half hour later. Both drinks remained
Bob Mysliwisc 
4 4 1 3 0 26.66 6 3 18 9 12 1.02 untouched.
Jim Phelps 
3 0 0 0 1 5 2 1 6 7 1.80
Tom Sinnott 
5 2 0 2 26.66 12 8 30 9 23 2.71
Ron Schmitz 
3 2 0 2 19 9 7 16 11 22 3.31
Nick Furlong 
4 4 1 0 2 27.66 17 16 35 11 17 5.22
Bob Arnzen 
2 0 0 0 5 3 3 5 4 6 5.40
Bob Jaeger 12 12 3 5 7 107.66 49 38 109 51 92 3.18
NOTRE DAME TOTAL 
12 12 3 7 5 109 44 23 84 40 69 1.89
OPPONENT TOTAL 










