
The 1970 Sophomore The second person who will Literary Festival, carrying a na­be coming is Thomas Wolfe, tional reputation for past excell­renowned author of Kandy ence, promises to surpass the K olored Tan~terine Flake­quality of the 1969 festival. Streamlined Baby, the Pump­
The Festival will be held the house Gang, and his latest work, week of April 12th. Bob Hall, The Hlectric K ooi-A idA cid Test. chairman of the festival, de­Wolfe graduated from Yale, ma­clared it will he "more contemp­joring in one of the toughest orary than previous festivals, courses offered, American Stud­with a great deal of student ies. He is the most noted grad­contact with the authors." uate of that program. He has 
"All the authors that have worked for the Washington Post, 
agreed to come have also agreed and the Herald Tribune, and to stay on campus several days appears in Hsquire and the Satur­and meet with students in classes day Review. 
and in seminars," llall said. Hall commented that Wolfe "This will definitely include had heen called "super contemp­Saint Mary's." 
orary and para-journalistic." He The events will he held in submerges himself "completely Washington Hall, and Stepan in these different scenes," of his 
('enter, with a possibility of work. using the Convocation Center. Boh Hall, and Rick Fitzgerald, The problem with the Convo associate chairman of the festi­
center is Uw prohibitively high v<.~l visited New York over the cost for rental. 
summer and talked to several Two cmint•nt authors have de­
<.~uthors, including Joseph Heller. finitely agreed to <.~ppcar at "lleller," Fitzgerald declared, Notre Dame. One is Theodore 
"expressed a strong verbal desire Salotaroff. lie is editor of the 
to come back to Notre Dame." New American Re1•iew, as well 
Heller was last here for the 
as a critic and writt:r for the New 1968 Sophomore Literary Festi­
Republic, Atlantic Monthlv and 
val.
Uj£·. . , 
Fitzgerald went on to expl<.~in Explaining why Salatoroff that Heller did not wish to hold was picked, llall said, "We pick­<.~n audience ·lecture, but rather ed him because he's young and to meet with small numbers of in touch. This is because he students and theater groups. 
works with authors as part of his Rick said Heller will be a "guest work for the New American in residence." Review." "There are a group of peo-
Student attitudes kill 
Honor Council for now 
by Tim Treanor procurement of a certain grade level as opposed to the
Chances for the Honor assimilation of knowledge, andCouncil, suspended last spring contended that the cause of an on the vote of it.~ membership, 
individual's "grade game"
to be resurrected in its past obsession was participation inform, have dropped to ncar zero, courses not directly connectedacmrding to many top officials with his major. 
in last year's Council. 
lie proposed as a solution toThe Honor Council which for this problem reinstitution of the a year and a half tried to 
Honor Council on a
implement the Honor Code of departmental or college-widepersonal integrity, presently system. McElroy was careful tooccupies the ambiguous position note that this was not the onlyof I heoretical existence while solu lion; it was, however, the
maintaining a temporary 
only solution he could think of.
moratorium on activity. 
Alumni Hall President Tony
Defense counselor, Dan 
Scolaro, who served in
Mcl·:troy, claimed that the McElroy's committee, had allonor System was doomed from 
slightly more optimistic
the st<~rt. viewpoint regarding the
"The llonor Council," he Council's chances for revival.
s<.~id, explaining the decision to "It's tempomrily suspended,
suspend activities, "felt it was enforcing a system that the 
not terminated," he argued. students apparently didn't 
"We'll come back when the respect." student body shows some "The action was taken 
interest." lie also said that there because the peoplr didn't care," must he fundamental changes in 
Mcl~lroy said. "As it was education before the Honor constituted, it would he Council can be reinstated. extremely difficult ot reinstate ' ' N o I u n t i·l t he basi c 
the Honor Council." philosophy of the educational McElroy termed the Council's system is changed, can the problem as a failure to he Honor Council succeed. relevant, and explained the Competition must be lessened. problem in this manner: Exams must go," Scolaro said. "There were two things "Students cheat," he working ag<.~inst us: the age-old continued, "because they feel custom of not rat ling on your the tests arc not a fair academic friend <.~nd the obsession for the representation of themselves." 
grade game." .However, Scolcuo also felt McElroy defined the "grade 
that the question of moral game" as primary interest in the (Continued on page 2) 
ple," Hall said, "we are very have proven through their songs some money left over from last interested in having. These peo­to be quite excellent poets. The year's festival, which is now ple include, W.H. Auden, known depth of sensitivity and meaning being used. In addition the sale for his various poems, J. P. that is shown in their songs does of patron cards will be held 
Donleavey, author of the Ginger not have to be bound to a sometime in October. The cards Man, Philip Roth, who wrote the written word." will enable the holder to reduc­best seller, Portnoy's Complaint, tions in price for the two
Both Hall and Fitzgerald ex­
John Updike, author of Rabbit movies, "Cat Balou" and "Wait
pressed their desire in havingRun, Henry Miller noted for until Dark" which will be shown 
young "avante-garde poets" ap­Tropic of Cancer, Terry South­during the year to raise money,
pear for what would be an even­ern, hest known for Candy, and ing of poetry reading. Both felt as well as preferred seating at all Jerome Ragin and James Rado, that poetry was "one of the other Festival activities. Hall and Fitzgerald both em­
playwriters of Hair, Bob Dylan, neglected facets of literature." and Joanie Mitchell, who wrote phasized that the festival would
Several Black authors and one be definitely impaired unless
authoress have also been asked
Both Sides Now, among other 
Student Government grants
to appear. The only reply recei­
songs." 
them a substantial amount of
ved so far was from James
"However there is no guaran­money.
Baldwin, who "wants $4500 to
tee that we could hring these "We won't be able to afford
talk at a white racist university
people to campus," IIall de­some people, especially since we
such as Notre Dame." Others
clared. 
want them to stay on campus
contacted include, Claude
When asked why Bob Dylan for several days," Hall comment­
Brown, Ishm<.~el Reed and Mrs.
and 1oanie Mitchell, both noted ed.
Carleen Hatcher Polite.
for their work in music were Both men expressed their being asked to a literary festival Funding has proven to be a 
gratitude for the help of former Hall s<.~id, "These two people difficult problem. There was 
(Continued on page 2) 
Kelly proposes community plans 
stir up trouble in the high streamline the activities of <.~11
by John Shreves 
schools. prrsent and future, college· based, volunteer services projects 
Another program to begin 
in the area." A director from
sometime in February, will have
Petl' Kelly, Community Rela­Notre Dame, St. Mary's, Holy
the Student Government spon­
tions Commissioner, proposed Cross, Memorial Nursing, and
sor a conference that would in­
some hold and progressive pro­I.U.S.B., would act as a represen­
volve South Bend officials and
grams in <.1 meeting Thursday tative for their schools on the
night in the Main Ballroom, La­community leaders from every Bureau. The Bureau would aidFortune concerning the com­faction in the community. The existing or future programs in
conference would deal with the
munity relations and volunteer obtaining volunteers by pro­
services het ween Notre Dame major problems between South viding man power, funds, andand South Bend. After three Bend and Notre Dame, and the the experience necessary to years work in the <trC<J of com­possible solution to them. 
carry on a campus wide recruit­munity relations, Kelly has in­One of the most important ment.
troduced these programs in hope and interesting programs would Kelly also mentioned that heof an increased undcrst<.~nding have select Notre Dame students hoped his commission wouldhet ween South Bend and the "work for non-profit or volun­soon become a cabinet post ofUniversity. 
teer agencies, or an individual 
the student government. He ex­The first progr<.~m hopefully project in community organizing 
plained that the commission
will be underway soon. It will be in South Bend." The students would be almost self-sufficient a series of community panel would receive regular credit as in 
financially from the studentdiscussions, and infornial meet­other University courses. Certain 
government, and thus would notings with key community lea­standards, such as a faculty ad­cause any fiscal problems, one ofders. visor and some type of report by 
the basic reasons for excluding it A sister program will send the student,, would be required. 
now. speakers from Notre Dame into It is hoped that the plan will The entire theme concerninglocal high schools. The latter begin in February. 
the new programs can be sum­project is being arranged very The final program suggested, med up in Pete Kelly's finalcarefully, because it may be would initiate a Volunteer Ser­statement, "Things are going toviewed by some as an attempt to vices Bureau to "coordinate and be!tin to move." 

l 0 
l 
THE OBSERVER
PAGE 2 
SEPTEMBER 29, 1969 
Dissatisfied Off-Campus Stu­dents -Looking for a room 
Honor Code ruined by 'grade game' 
in new dorms (Flanner) over­looking campus available. Call 
(Continued .from page 1J of the Honor Council when it Gallagher added that he is not construct a committee that
232-0550. 
disbanded last year, described optimistic about the Student would be composed of two
responsibility must be 
the problem in basically the Honor Council's chances for students, two members of theconsidered in any solution. 
same terms McElroy did. revival. faculty, and the head of the"Students did not want to be
WELCOME FRESHMEN! 
"The vast majority of Jerry Burns, a junior who was department.
morally responsible for each students," he commented, "are a member of last year's council, It would handle grievance~other or for themselves. Only
ArlO OLD TIMERS! 
opposed to turning in other contended that although a large from students and faculty, and be two or three per cent of the students." percentage of the students given final disciplinary power inactual cheating was reported,"
N.D. Barbershop Hrs. 8:00 
themselves were personally matters concerning cheating andhe said. Gallagher added that a honest, the "informer" clause of plagiarism, as well as the power
Scolaro emphasized his proposal from the Honor
a.m. to 4:45 Sat. 8:00a.m. to 
the pledge was largely ignored. to make formalopinion that "basic educational Council that would eliminate "I heard so often," he said, recommendations to the head ofchanges" come first, and that that required sfudents to turn
11 :45 Open 5Yz days a week 
"the phrase, 'I think the honor the departments.
this must be followed by what over fellow classmates they council binds me, but I wouldn't Smith admitted the bill was inhe termed "positive student suspected of cheating was
Serving N.D. men over 100 
turn in my friends.' I don't think its formative stages. 
interest." discussed and discarded. 
the system can work, because it "We're trying to talk toJeff Gallagher, also a member Gallagher said "You can't have
Vllfl 
depends, on people turning in people -to get their reaction. 
an honor system without the 
other people." Possibly this bill won't even be
clause. There are people who 
Burns characterized the introduced. It's still open for
simply are not honest, and they 
problem as one of committment. discussion," he said. 
would take advantage of the 
"A higher allegiance (than the He termed the proposedcode." 
allegiance of one person to changed, "tremendously
Gallagher sees a basic change 
another) is required. Informing important." Neither Dedrick nor
in .student attitude towards
fOR THE fiNEST EYEGI.ASSES AND CONTACT LEN~S 
is too much to ask of the himself could name another
scholastic honesty as a necessary 
ordinary guy." college with a similar procedure. 
THE SHERLAND BLDG.-·132 S. MICHIGAN ST.--ICEntral2-146811 
condition for resurrection of the 
Burns used a military The bill, if introduced andHonor Council. 
institution as an example of the passed by the Student Life
"Without academic honesty 
kind of college that has enough Council, would not go into
and a willingness to insure the 
allegiance to a cause to be able effect until the 1970-71 fall
honesty of other students there 
to use the Honor System. semester.
is no honor concept:"
Main Office: 13!; N. Wabash Ave.--Chica!ln 
"If this thing is to be Vice President in charge of resurrected, it must contain a Academic Affairs, Father Walsh recognition that a majority of esc, was not available fo; Notre Dame students arc mature comment. 
enough to take care of themselves, yet at the same time 
Two million 
recognize the fact that a minority will take advantage of 
·searches held
MEWANNA 

the situation and a majority will 
(UPI)-Customs agents
not be willing to turn them in.
GETTUM 
seeking marijuana and drugs"I'd like to see the Honor
, _____...........____.., 
conducted 2,384,079 searches ofCouncil resurrected in some
BUFFAL-O 
persons coming into the Unitedform, but I don't believe that States from Mexico during theresurrecting it in the form it
WEl.L1 C~IE~ THE 
first week of Operation
occupied formerly will lead to Intercept, it was disclosedany other results," said Burns. 
yesterday.
(f)VfCI(ESr WAVTO 
According to Student Body Vice-President· Fredrick Dedrick, A Treasury Department 
the Student Body is cognizant of spokesman at Los Angeles what he termed as a "gap" headquarters of the massive caused by the demise of the border surveillance released 
GET BllFFAL.O fS 
TO DIAL .1 AND 
Honor Council. To fill the statistics covering the period
-
alleged gap, a bill that would from when the operation began
AREA CODE 71" 
create an Academic Grievances Sept. 21 through midnight Committee may appear before Saturday.
~--·-"] 
the Student Life Council. Thirty seven persons were The bill, as written by Jim arrested during the period, 26 of 
Smith, a senior active in 
them on charges of transporting academic affairs, would 
marijuana or drugs. 
By yesterday afternoon traffic was jammed up at the Tijuana San Ysidro, Calif., crossing point with cars waiting more than two hours to be cleared. 




SEPTEMBER 29,1969 THE OBSERfJER. 
'Dessert' vote set Tuesday 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's students will vote Tuesday and Wednesday nights in the dining halls to determine the fate of a student proposed project that would ask them to forego their desserts for the remainder of the year. 
The compensation for the desserts received from the Food Services at Notre Dame and Saga at St. Mary's would be used to serve break fast to several hundred children in South Bend. 
Supporters of the plan have discussed it with people from both food concerns, and the response has been essentially the same: they want to help the project, but before any commitments are made they want to know how many students support the idea. 
Among the students who have helped organize the project are Brian Mcinerny, Glenn Smerillo, Dave Lammers, Sandy llellrung, Tim MacCarry, John Gallagher, Bill Mitchell. Rick Burns, Maureen Mt·Carthy, and Kathy Eglet. 
Letters explaini.1g the project will be distributed at the dining halls tonight. The letter says in part, "The cost of the dessert you'll eat tonight is not much (less than a dime), but if we can multiply it by several thousand students, seven days a week, two meals a day, its value will be considerably more significant." Students will be responsible for the actual procurement of the food for the breakfasts each week. In plans outlined in the explanatory letter, the food would be distributed by personnel of "reliable. non-profit agencies in South Bend who know the people who 
Station to air spots
by Dave Lammers The Mutual Broadcasting Company and 6,000 indepen­dent radio stations have donated 26 public service spots to Notre 
Dame's Program for the Study and Practice of the Non-violent Resolution of Human Conflict. 
The radio spots, which are three and one-half minutes long, are to deal with the problem of vio­lence in the family situation. 
Public Service Information officials estimated that if each of the ntdio stations involved aired each script twice a day, an audience of 100 million Americans would be reached. Rev. Patril:k Peyton, C.S.C., who was influential in obtaining I he public service time, recommended that professional writer~; write the radio scripts. llowever, Professor Charles McCarthy, the Director of the program here insisted that student writers would be better able to write the scripts. "I felt that students at Notre Dame could be far more meaningfully creative than a couple of people for whom writing is simply a living," McCarthy said. 
BC gets 4 grads 
Four Notre Dame graduates 
have cntcrt•d Boston College Law School this fall. They arc: James Belanger, James Murray, Jr., David Ryan, and John Teahan. 
All organizations requesting funds from Student Government must contact the Student Body Treasurer on or before Wednes­day October I. 
Office Hours: I -5 p.m. 
phone 7668 need it most." 
The supporters have acknowledged 'that "a certain amount of waste is unavoidable in any project like this," but insist that "we believe the plan presented is the most efficient.'' 
The group stressed the voluntary nature of the project, and said desserts would not be 
discontinued  for  any  student  
who  choose>  not  to  sign  them  
away.  

After the voting is completed Wednesday night, the group will count the signatures. The letter says that "if a large enough 
Daley raps mass media 
CHICAGO (UP!)-Mayor Richard J. Daley Sunday criticized the broadcast media for "presenting fragments of events" which focus on violence. In a speech to the Catholic Lawyers Guild of Chicago, at the Ambassador West Hotel, the mayor urged the media to attempt to cover more fairly events of a potentially violent nature. 
Daley specifically mentioned events surrounding the trial of eight persons accused of plotting to disrupt the 1968 Democratic National Convention. 
Daley said the eight defendants are making "a blatant attempt" through television and radio to shift the center of attention from the courthouse to the streets; where their supporters hold demonstrations. 
"Television influences greatly its viewers and the event it is reporting, often at the expense of editorial judgement," Daley said. 
McCarthy appealed for any student who would like to get involved in this project to visit him in his office in G90 in the basement of the library. 
McCarthy said, "It's not often that an individual gets an opportunity to effect literally millions of people concerning such a serious and all pervading problem: violence in the family."
Upward Bound 
Saint Mary's College Upward Bound fall program is looking for tutors for this year. 
A meeting will be held for all those interested tonight at 6:30 in the Medeleva Scholars Lounge (I st floor-south side) in the Medclcva Classroom Building. 
According to Sister Carolyn, Director of the program there arc thirty high school girls from South Bend who have been en­rolled in the program. Each SMC girl who signs up to tutor will be assigned to one girl. 
Any interested person who can not attend tonight's meeting can call the Upward Bound Of­fice 4350 between 9 and 12 a.m. 
-Mental Health Meeting-
Monday, Sept. 19 at 7:30 p.m. 123 Nieuwland. Old and New Mfmbers are urged to attend. 
percentage of students sign, the names will be presented to administrators of Notre Dame and St. Mary's." 
A spokesman for the group pointed out that the support of a large majority of students will be necessary in order to get firm commitments from the administration of either school. 
The group hopes to expand the project gradually, both in South Bend and at Notre Dame via Corby Hall (a residence for members of the Congregation of the Holy Cross) and at Moreau Hall, a C.S.C. seminary. 

"It presents fragments of events. Whatever is extreme and violent and moving it reports out of context without giving all the facts, a practice that would not congratulationsbe allowed in a courtroom," he said. 
Delegation seeks word on relatives 
PARIS (UPI)-Five women 
and a man related to Americans 
missing in action in Vietnam 
arrived • last night to seek 
information about the 
servicemen's fate from the North 
Vietnamese delegation to the 
Vietnam peace talks. 
Mrs. Sybil Stockdale, wife of Navy Capt. James Bond Stockdale, of San Diego, Calif., ·heads a group representing the National League of Families of American Prisoners in Southeast 
Asia. 
The other four women and 
the man, Thomas Swain of St. 
Paul, Minn., father in law of 
missing Marine Capt. Patrick 
Murray, are seeking information 
on whether their relatives are 
prisoners of war or dead 
"I sent Delegation Chief Xuan 
Thuy a letter in August saying I 
was planning to come to Paris in 
early October and would like to 
talk with him about the 
situation," Mrs. Stockdale said. 
No response had been 
received by the time Mrs. Stockdale left for Paris Saturday. There also had been no response to two cablegrams. 
Thuy had been absent from Paris since he went to Hanoi for the funeral of the late President Ho Chi Minh. But he was expected to return in time for Thursday's 36th peace talks session. 
Four women from Dallas and Fort Worth, Tex., who came to Paris earlier seeking information on their husbands were received 
by lower ranking members of the Hanoi delegation. They were told they would be sent letters from Hanoi telling them whether they were wives or widows. 
The four other women with Mrs. Stockdale were: 
-Mrs. Pat Mears, wife of Air 
Force Maj. Arthur S. Mears of Los Angeles, Calif. Maj. Mears has been missing since Nov. II, 1966. 
-Mrs. Andrea Rander, wife of Staff Sgt. Donald J. Rander of 
Baltimore,  Md.  Rander  was  
captured  in  South  Vietnam  in  
February,  1968,  and  was  
injured.  

-Mrs. Ruth Ann Perisho, wife of Naval Lt. Gordon S. Perisho of Quincy, Ill. Perisho has been missing since December, 1967. 
-Mrs. Candy Parish, wife of Navy Lt. Charles C. Parish of Alexandria, Va. Parish has been missing since July, 1968. 
All phone number changes for the Student Directory must be made by today. Call6747 or 6736 and ask for Joe Creen. 
HIGH CAMP ADVENTURE 
next week on 
THE WSND OLD RADIO FESTIVAL 
Mondav, Sept. 29, 11:30 p.m. 
SUSPENSE! •.. tonight's episode: "The Man Who Went Back to Save Lincoln." 
• .. a chiller from the mid -1940 1s, .. 
Wednesday, October 1, 11:30 p.m. 
X-MINUS-ONE: These are tales of the future ...where we might live in a thousand would-be 
years on a million maybe worlds: the classic sci-fi program of the 1940's. 
Tuesday, Sept. 30, 11:30 p.m. ESCAPE! Have you ever wished 
to break out of your four walls? Then hear "Escape.'' Another thriller from the 40's. Tonight's episode: "Violent Night." 
Thursday, Oct. 2, 11:30 p.. 
THE GREEN HORNET: The Green Hornet and Cato battle evildoers in "The Mystery of Madman's Deep.' a transcribed tale from the 1930's. 
TAKE A TRIP THROUGH THE STATIC Twenty, thL.ty years ba-.:k: A WORLD OUR GENERATION NEVER KNE\V WSND'S OLD RIIDIO FESTIVAL: SEPT, 28-OCT. 2 
--and mu ..:c to come ia the future-­
(and ~:roetines to Flanner an•.l '1racc,-­~l~~!'m rot-; ~n 1,;1c air r~verY".rlh·:>:~c) 
THE OBSERVER
PAGE 4 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
DONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Publisher GAETANO DE SAPIO, Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3 1966 

Grace rebate 
Father Whelan, Director of Student Housing, announced this weekend, that the completion of the new dorms will be further delayed due to the fact that "plaster was not drying rapidly enough." 
T!le hold up in completion is regretable and has been an inconvenience for not only the people displaced from the towers but also for the students in other dorms on campus who have been forced to take them into their rooms. 
Room fee for living in the towers is higher than that for any dorm on campus. The displaced students who have paid that fee are now being forced to live in crowded quarters. In reality they are not getting what they paid for. The same goes for the students who are being forced to take them into their rooms. 
Student government is working on getting a room fee rebate for all students involved. We support the move enthusiastically. It is the Univer­sity's obligation to refund a certain amount since they are not providing the types of accomodations which the fees dictate. The rebate would seem to be not only a moral and legal obligation but also just plain common sense. 
It is hard to ascertain exactly who is at fault in the delay in completion. It is entirely possible that .unforseen natural occurrences forced the delay. Perhaps though it is the fault of the contractor. In such a case, he is not living up to the obligations of his contract with the University. 
The University has the option of exacting a set monetary penalty from the contractor for each day past the specified completion date in which work oh the building continues. We feel that the University should make a thorough investigation of the causes of the delay. If the contractor is a fault we feel he should be penalized; the money to go toward paying the students who have been displaced. 
The University Trustees meet this weekend at the Center for Continuing Education. Perhaps an examination of the situation in the new dorms could be the first item on their agenda. 
Kennedy Institute 
The inception of the Kennedy Institute to promote social action at Notre Dame is a step to be applauded and supported, and will prove to be, we believe, a fitting tribute to a great man. 
The Institute will serve, if the dreams of the founders are realized, as an 
axis around which all social action programs by Notre Dame students will 
revolve. 
The Institute is good in the sense that it will be able to co-ordinate efforts by different groups to ensure that they don't overlap. It has gained the University's support and national prominence and so ought to be able to easily raise funds for programs where smaller groups would have trouble. At the same time, the scope of the venture has prompted University officials into seriously considering granting credit for social action programs in the South Bend area. 
The program faces certain dangers however, that we feel should be provided for from the outset. 
First, if the program is to serve as an "umbrella" for all social service activities we feel it should be so only as far as it serves in coordinating efforts. The Institute should not be structured so that it must approve the content of programs or so that it has a veto over what programs can be launched. Any group of Notre Dame or St. Mary's students who want to begin work in an area in which they are interested should always be free to do so. The Institute should be more than ready to help them if the program is truly worthwhile. 
The Institute has received a $20,000 dollar grant from the University and more money is forthcoming the founders maintain from outside sources. Although the concept of structuring the program so that it is entirely student run is an admirable one, we feel that a permar.ent board of directors for the Institute must be found in order to lend stability to the program and to aid in providing sound financial management. 
Although students are often not willing to admit it, there is often mismanagement and imprudent use of funds in programs that are entirely student administered. We feel that the program is too important to falter even for one year because of a mistake that could have been avoided if the Institute would provide for a full time financial board of directors and consultants. 

It's another letter from your pen pal at the draft board! 
IMike K~lly A good thing I 
Conservatives are noted for mourning the passing of good things. I do occasionally mourn the passing of good things no longer with us and have consequently been widely considered a conservative. I accept the title simply because there are too many Ijberals around already and, besides, I would rather confuse people when I do something especially progressive than have them murmur "traitor" and similar epitaths when the dark, reactionary side of my personality asserts itself. 
What I wish to mourn today is the Action Student Party. 
After last year's Student Senate elections in which the ASP failed to gain control of the Senate, l was quoted in The Observer as saying the ASP had seen its "last Hurrah" and would dis­appear. I am sorry that my rather flippant prediction proved to be 
accurate. 
The ASP was founded in 1966 by a group of the most intel­igent students at the university. A philosophical maturity that was lost with their departure combined with a realistic attitude on matters such a structure allowed students like Ed Kickham 
and Paul Higgins to create an organization with a clear purpose and concrete goals. In the 196 7 Student Body President elections the ASP captured the Vice-Presidency and narrowly missed electing Denny O'Dea SBP (for ten points and one hundred dollars, who can tell me who put out the "A Riot A Day With O'Dea!" flyer the night before the election?). 
The following years saw about fifteen ASP members in the Senate. Under ASP Chairman Jon Sherry, the ASP Senators kept student government alive with their demands and activities. However, it was in the Senate under Sherry that the ASP began to weaken philosophically even as it received the most publicity. Forced to deal in concrete terms and under parlimentry structure, the party began to lose its identity. Higgins and Kickham saw the ASP as remaining ·permanently in the minority, moving further left as its objectives were achieved. The original ideology of the ASP recognized the corruptive influence power had on revolutionary purity and was not eager to assume it, but new and younger forc.:es in the party were out to rule and impose their ideology on the campus. 
The crisis came to a head in the SBP election of 1968 when non-ASP liberal Richard Rossie was running. The purists in the ASP were determined to keep Rossie from taking the party without accepting the label. Higgins and Kickham attempted to get ASP Senators like Don Hynes and Mike Kendall to run, but Hynes was off in personal exploration and Kendall was backing Rossie. At a meeting of the ASP, always a loosely-knit organization, the Rossie advocates, many of whom were at their first ASP meeting narrowly voted an endorsement of Rossie over the opposition of Sherry, Higgins, and Kickham and most of the original ASP members. By the Senate elections of 1968, the ASP had lost its ideologies and, under Pete Kelly, attempted a soft-5ell campaign which contrasted sharply with the hard-line drives of previous years. The result brought no major improvements in ASP strength. To the old ASP that would have meant little, but the new victory-oriented ASP was disheartened and soon faded a way without even so much as a whimper. By the time last year's SBP elections came up no one even noticed that the ASP weren't putting up candidates or even endorsing anyone. 
Night Editor: David Lam­
News Editor: Glen Corso Copy Editor: David Stauf­mers 
The opinions in the editorials, news analyses,Layout Design: Tom Hamil­and columns of The Observer are solely thosefer of the authors and editors of The Observer andton 
Associate Editors: Clifford do not necessarily reflect the views of St.
Copy Staff: Mike Mooney, Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame,Wintrode, Ann Conway, Laura Thomas Bornholdt their administrations, faculty or student bodies.
Hafferd Jeanne Sweeney, Pru­1 dence Wear. 
Photo Editor: Phil Bosco 
The ASP is gone, but it served Notre Dame well while it was here and Notre Dame will never be the same because of its having been here. I usually opposed the ASP, but Ed Kick ham and I could sit down and talk, recogni7.ing that it is the part of the radical and the conservative to loudly protest at what they, in their philosophical. purity, take to be evil and that it is the part of the moderate and the liberal to create a government out of what must be. · 
lt was this philosophical perspective that left Notre Dame when Ed Kickham left for Ethiopia. In its place we hear the raucous voices of those demanding power they could not control. 
_TII._'E_ OBSER_~---~---_____ _ 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Tom Ehrbar· 
A man of principle 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Those of you whose literary taste begins and ends on the New York Times "Best Seller List" (you philistines you) could not have missed tripping oVl'r a pithy, whimsical success called 11!e Peter Principle (Nothing whatsoever to do witli papal infallibility.) 
Plodding my way down the Times listings last week, I re<Jd Peter while quaffing several tankards of mulled ale. Within an hour I was on my back m wild jubilation, singing out an eroth; version of "Peter Piper" such was my glee in catching the subtleties of Mr. Drccker's theory. 
Which is "Within any hiemrchy or group, an individual will rise to his greatest level of incompetence." Anyone, meaning anyone, will naturally work his way up, through a series of promotions, till ht• is placed in a position where he is simply in over his head. I, for one, take my hat off to Mr. Drecker (which was, by the way, also over my head.) 
And I would like to advance a maxim of my own which. I insist, is even more preposterous, more brilliant than the Peter Principle. The Thomas Tenet is this -"on any college campus, a particular issue or event will rise to its greatest level of over-significance." Along with it I will add the Charles I. McCorollary -"to heighten the impact of these issues or events endow them with the most trivial, most frivolous support." Thus the actions emerging from such banality will be assured a longer run within the public eye as they balloon on their flight to over-importance. A forth-coming scene which should shed some light on these principles, and to which I will merely allude, is Thursday's home­coming of Father llesburgh. If Ul'l, AI' and other sundry rumors hold true, there is out­standing cham.:e that our weary citizen-of-the-world and/or univer­sity president will soon be arriving at South Bend International. The event itself is not particularly steeped in dramatic richness or other crowd-inciting charism. One would assume that Father Tl'd, after his plain departure, would like nothing more than to quietly 
slip hack to campus, sulk in a long hot bath, and climb into his 
bed beneath the (;olden Dome. So one would assume. 
But here the Thomas Tenet suddenly intrudes with a malignant, brute-like fist. 
Already a perverse gathering of our more creative minds have bt~en scheming and brewing up trouble like a covy of witches gesturing around a boiling caldron. In less mealy and toiling prose what they cunningly envision is an un-restrained, blatantly mocking Home­coming rally for Father Ted. As the Leer jet touches down on Thursday hundreds of leering students and Arthur IIailey, waiting in frenzied anticipation, will crush forward in a fit of enthusiasm 
shouting "Bring him out of the plane", "Remember'?", "lie's number I", "llate state universities". Some cynic might even venture a "Go, go, go." 
From the airport, the entourage will move via motorcade back to campus, past thousands of sign-carrying students lining Notre Dame avenue, finally to the circle where the band will break out with "llail to the Chief'. White-colored streamers and snatches of friendly welcomes are sure to pervade the atmosphere. 
Seriously, meaning seriously, this is what a bold, innane few are desperately hoping to pull off. They're counting on the Thomas Tenet. 

Saturday's game was not a total loss for Ohsenw Photo Editor Phil Bosco...as his roaming camera caught the essence of... 

interesting chit-chat ... 


::::::::::::;:;:::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::·:·:·:::::·:·::;.;:;:;.;.;:;.;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :;:: 
Fverything is hush-hush right now (you might even say, maxim-;;;;; mum security.) ::;:: 
The legacy of the desk 
Mr. Drecker might just be able to write a sequel one of these day :~;~: unless, of course, he Peters out on it. ;:;:: by Chuck Darst 
:m: When my grandfather died at
Beethoven lives on 
:;:;:the age of H9, he left me the 
(UP!) As a musical creator the world hasn't known his like before and probably will never know it again. As a man he was an irascible and untidy eccentric given to leaving scraps of sandwiches in his piano and to cheating his publishers. 
That cramps the possibilities for eulogies of Beethoven the man. llis music continuously commemorates the genius and so far the major American symphony orchestras have resolved to be contented with that. 
In January Bernstein will conduct a version of his only .. ,. . , . :;~;: desk he kept in his office on the opera, hdeho, With the New:;:; seventeenth floor of the York Philharmonic, and George :;;; 11 a milton Bank Building in Szell will conduct an all :;:; Knoxville, Tennessee. It is a Beethofen program in March. ::~; huge desk, solid oak, with all Eugene Ormandy plans one for ;:;; kinds of nooks and crannies, the Philadelphia Orchestra and :;;: doors, drawers, shelves, a secret Leopold Stokowski will close ;:;:; compartment, and best of all. out the season of the American :;;:; one of those magnificent, Wells Symphony with the mighty ;:;:; Fargo-looking roll-back tops. I 
choral symphony.  r rl'ally  don't  know why  he  left  
Only  the  Boston  Symphony ;:;: this half-cen tury old relic to  me  
has  undertaken  a  Beethoven :;:; of  all  his  four  children  and  

"festi_val." It w_ill run_ for four ~;~;eighteen grandehildren, but I do days m Boston m Apnl. For the :;:;know I have admired that desk big scale hoo~la Schroeder an,d ~;~; for about as long as 1 can o!her determme~ Bcet~oven s ;:;:remember. Maybe sometime birthday celebratw~s Will have ;:;; long ago he caught wind of that. to go to Bonn and VIenna. ;:;; Naturally, 1 have long wanted ;:;:to transport this mammoth desk ;:;: to Notre Dame. Finally, last ;:;;week, I did so. It sits in my ;:;;room now, beneath the window, 
on the top hunk, I came to the 
sharp  rca lization  -­ us  if I  lwd  
climbed  a  hill  and  could  Sl'l'  
clearly  for  the  first  time  the  

geography of the land below ­that I reully didn't hute the desk so much as I did the st;~rk knowledge it gaw me that my third year at Notrl' Dame hus begun, that t!1e express train calkd Time is rushing past, and that it is making no stops. When I looked on my desk with that funny hatred, I was ml'rely cursing the rapidity of change, tile precariousness of life, and the ncct'ssity of burning your bridges behind you. 
Coming back to my old room, and all my papers, letters, and other belongings was like never having left. Like I was seeing the past two years in one fast, retrospective look, and like I didn't want to. I didn't want to in the hourglass of his life is running out much too fast. I am forced to realize that there is much to do and so little time to do it. And with that affirmation comes a particular sense of urgency. The sick feeling that time is now of the utmost, once fully realized, is enough to cause anyone to curse his compla..:l'ncy and failure to really usc his energies. Ray Bradbury oncl' said to me, "Remember this: at the t=nd of life, when we must all lay ourselves out, with what thoughts will we do so? Will Wl' think: I did my best? Or will we think: I never tried?" 
I spent a most fantastic summer with four guys and five girls at one of several student-run live-in projects in Chicago. In that time I lt'arncd a lot and grew very close to nine very beautiful people. Yet now, 
OBSERVER 
FEATURES 
it seems like only a few days ago
:~:! pnhaps the most prized be reunited with the myraid collection of molecules Ihat I that I was sitting at my old desk
:;:; possession I have. But I he other call mine and so meticulously, in the April sunshine, drt•aming
:;:; night while I was lying in the and planning on how I was going
:;:; upper bunk, I glanced lazily over religiously, and foolishly save. to bring my grandfatlll'r's big
:;:;at the desk, and for some strange Right now I would like to cut 
!:!: n•ason, I hated it. Still, it was myself free from them to be desk back to school with ml' more able to grow in the face of next yl'ar. And that's lhl' scary
:;:; not until later that l was ahle to thing. "Nl'xt year" has alrl•ady
:;:;grab the h;.mdle of what I was otherwise grotesque change. Ah, :;:; fl'cling after bringing I he dl'sk the sly, precariousness of life. a r rived . N o w c v en 111 ore :;:; hack, arranging my room, and I think l am feeling, as one frightening is the question: what 
will we do with it?
} gl'lting Sl'ltlt•d in. Stretched out periodically docs, as if the sand 
Letters to the Editor 
The OBSRR VHR will print letters to the Editor which f31re submitted provided that they do 1zot exceed two double spared typewritten pages and are accomranied by writer's name and address. The editor reserves the right to withhold from P.Ublication any letter or part thereof which he deems libelous or otherwise offensive. 
Ed. 
JOYCE FEARED 
Editor: 
Thank you very 1:1uch for I is t i ng the c x t ra-curricular activities of Father Hesburgh. I've had a very difficult time the last few years keeping up with his global wanderings, and now I know why he spends so much of his time on the road. I only wwish that you had further researched the subject so as to determine exactly how ,many days last year were spent by Father Hesburgh at Notre Dame. I'm sure that the amazingly few days a year that Father Hesburgh is "at home" would be an even more profound conuuent on his concern for the students here at Notre Dame. 
~.!any, however, may question why it is important that Father Hesburgh have good rapport with the students of this university. Anyone who has had to deal with the administration realizes how difficult it is to get quick action on a student initiated proposal. One could point to Father Joyce as the ultimate authority on campus when Father Hesburgh is absent, but he is notoriously relunctant to make decisions on important matters. Remember, for instance, that day in April of '68 
when Father Joyce refused to dose the university so that the Notre Dame student body could join with the St. Mary's students who had been freed from classes to partkipate in the memorial march in honor of Martin Luther King. Nor can Father Joyce be pointed to as the ideal final judge on important student issues. Take, for instance, his meeting with Richard Rossie, Bill Wade, and Pat Dowdall last year. He called them "greedy, and out to get every penny you can" when they attempted to convince him that student sponsored events in the Convocation Center should not be charged the same exorbitant fees as any outside group. This was bad enough, but then Father Joyce went on to say that all profits from any student sponsored function in the Convocation Center should rightfully be given to the intramural athletics fund since the Convocation Center was built to promote sports at Notrt: Dame. The fact that the building could be used for social or cultural purposes was just a coincidt:nct:. 
I would like to say that what Father Hesburgh needs is a new title--Chancellor of the University of Notre Dame. Thus 
he would s t i I I be around to attract dollars to Notre Dame, for no one can deny his great ability to raise money. This would allow for tht: appointment of a new president-one who could spend the majority of his time at Notre Dame and be the ultimate decision maker as to the daily operations of a university. The concept is the fear that then 
Father Joyce might be appointed president. Mayhe we don't realiZl' how 
wt:ll off we really arc! Sincerely yours Richare J. Rod de wig 54018 Ivy Road 
BLUE CIRCLE 
Editor: 
This is in reply to Mr. Murphy's letter, condemning Monday's Freshman Activities Night. First of all, it should be pointed out to Mr. Murphy that the proceedings are run by the Blue Circle, not Student Union. This is merely a point of information. It would appear that Mr. Murphy and his organization could use a lesson in manners. 
As one of the speakers on stage Monday night, I know that T e d J o n e s asked not only The Republicans but also several other groups to close down while people were on stage trying to speak. If Mr. Murphy was not personally interested in the words of the CPA, Students Against Racism, Free University and the Student Body Presidcn t, he might have at least permitted other students to hear them. Could it be that the "CPA propaganda" was too much for Mr. Murphy, because it suggested he might be wrong? 
Richard Libowitz Free University 
LYONS HALL 
Editor: 
In reference to the article in the September 24 issue concerning the Student Union ticket policy change -I must criticize Mr. Collins for making such an inane comment 
r-----------N-0-,-,[-'(_C_E-,-----------. concerning Lyons Hall. Even "Student insurance enrollment ./(Jrms must be moreso must I reproach The 
Observer for printing such 
completed by those desiring CUI'erage by comments from a person who is O('trJber 6, 1969. Contact the insurance obviously throwing a verbal representatil'e in room 2 (downstairs) in the temper tantrum over the Laff.Jrtune Student Center" abolishment of a rather 
REFRIGERATORS FOR RENT 
THE'. NORCOLO MODEL NO. E201
UNLIMITED SUPPLY 
Cfleconltor 
S7.00 per month 
Share the cost with your roommates 

NORCOLD, INC. 1501 Michigan Street, Sidney, O~io 45365 A Subsidiary of the Stolle Corporation 
YOU CAN RENT OR BUY 

DEliVERY, SERVICE, MAINTENANCE, AND PICK UP ARE FREE 
COMPACT COOL, INC. 
Another Service ofStudent Services Commission 
CONTACT -Jim or Bob Pohl 7757 or 1180 4th floor LaFortune or 3ll Flftnner Tower 
debatable "right." Whether the and his staff regarding my letter residents of Lyons Hall sit on that appeared in Thursday's their butts all year or not is such Observer. I have since learned 
an absurdity that any rational that the Blue Circle "organized" person would not be capable of Freshman Activities Night. dredging up such nonsense. I trust my error did not take 
The printing of s·uch away from the intended point unnecessary statements in a (i.e. the injustice dealt to the supposedly reputable college campus political organizations). newspaper are an insult to the Again, I am sorry for the intelligence of your readers and mistake. can only serve to hurt the Tom Murphy reputation of a hall. I request I I 03 Flanncr 
GRASS FAMINE 

The j"ol/owing letter was forwarded to us to forward to you. 
ed. 
Dear President Nixon, 
For several years now I have bpcn smoking grass ( marijauna to you I suppose) with my 
happy collection of oft~toncd friends. We dutifully followed that The Observer print an 
your warnings and fearfully apology and refrain from such 
resisted those evil characters journalism in the future. As for 
who tried to push us down the .Mr. Collins, I suggest to give him 
long road towards a pacifier and leave him to pout 
dirty-tenement heroin death. in the corner of his room. 
Now, great father, what arc we Sincerely, 
to do? Our grass has run out, Jim Younger 
and there's a dark man with a 333 Lyons 
black shirt and white tie sitting near me in the huddle. Oh well, 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT no one cares for me. Editor: Signed, My apologies to Denny Clark Phil Welchman, O.C. 
Battle claims 18 dead 
SAIGON (UPI) -U.S. troops using armored vehicles and significant clashes with supported by fighter bombers Communist troops in Vietnam battled North Vietnamese Sunday, spokesmen said. An soldiers for more than three element of the 4th Infantry hours yesterday just south of the Division lost one killed and four Demilitarized Zone (DMZ). wounded in a fight near Bong Fifteen Communists and three Son, about 305 miles northeast Americans were killed. of Saigon. 
In the battle, three miles Members of the I st Air south of Con Thien on the Cavalry Division reported killing eastern end of the DMZ, the six Communist soldiers in a North Vietnamese used rocket battle near Tay Ninh City, about propelled grenades and mortars 48 miles northwest of Saigon. 
while the Americans of the 5th Helicopter gunships, arti!lers and Mechanized Infantry Division fighter bombers supported the fought back with heavy machine Americans, who lost one killed guns mounted on personnel and seven wounded. 
carriers.. 
Elections held 
Communist forces also carries out three shelling attacks BONN (UPI)-C'hancellor Sunday in the region just south Kurt Georg Kiesinger's Christian of the DMZ. One, against the Democrats came within seven 3rd Marine Division's Quang Tri seats YesterdaY of a combat base, caused no parliamentary majority in an casualties or damage. election which upset Adolf van The division is preparing to Thadden's hopes of leading his leave Vietnam under President right wing nationalists into the Nix on's plan to withdraw national legislature. 35,000 more troops by Dec. 15. Unofficial final returns gave Other troops of the 5th the Christian Democrats 242 Mt:chanized Infantry Division seats in the new Parliament, to sustained light casualties with no 224 for Foreign Minister Willy fatalities in shellings of two of Brandt's Social Democrats and their positions four and six miles 30 for the Free Democrats. north west of Cam Lo. Brandt announced he will 
The U.S. Command said that "ttempt to force kiesinger into a 120 man Army reserve unit opposition by forming a !1artncrship with the Free 
from Kansas City, Mo., will leave Democrats. Other Social 
Vietnam Tuesday under the 
Democratic leaders urged the redeployment plan. foreign :ninister and ·former 
1---u_.s_._fo_r_c_e_s_f_o_u_g_h_t_t_w_o_o_t_h_e_r-, mayor of West Berlin to try to 
1970 Seniors 
October 18th is the last date to get your picture taken for the 1970 DOME if you have notal­ready done so. Appointments are to be made at Tompsett Studios, 122 N. Michigan. 
form a government with himself as chancellor, even though it would have only a small majority. 
The percentage of the vote, gave the Christian Democrats 
46.1 per cent of the vote, the Social Democrats 42.7 per cent 
Von Thadder.'s National Democratic party 1-l"PD, called nco Nazi by many Germans, fell just short of the five per cent of the popular vote needed to get into Parliament. 
---------------------------------------------~~~--=~~~~~~ -------------------­
Heller play opens year for ND -SMC theatre 
by Paul Gallagher 
Parts have hcen cast and pral:lke has begun on We Bombed in New llal'en," the first of six productions to he presented hy the N0-SMC 
student theatre in a play season lahclled "heavy with the serious" by director Fred Syburg. 
According to Syburg, the season's onener, a comic-p a t h e t i c three act written by JOl' Ikller of Catch 22 fame, was selected hecause of its widespread appeal to university audiences. 
The setting of We Bombed in New fla1•en is for the most part "an ordinary American Air Force hriefing room in a bungalow in a war somewhere." With the aid of a cleverly used technique that has characters sll·pping in and out of their assigned stage parts, the plays fifteen servicemen and lone Red Cross girl, "second prettiest girl in town," become more or less aware that there is at least an ekment a terrifying clement of the real in the war game they arc playing. 
Leads for the play have hcen captured hy senior. Dick Riehle who plays the rolt; Capt;1in Starkcy. the direct superior ~,f most of the soldiers; sophomore Mark Genero playing Sergeant Henderson, senior Mike Kc lley, who becomes the Major, and senior co-ed Lanor Wright as Ruth, the Red Cross-doughnut girl. 
"Society is to such a point that the individual gets lost," said Mark Genero commenting on the play. "Heller tries to bring this down to the individual. He throws it out to the audience." 
In regard to his first major role, Gcnero adds, "Henderson is someone who knows what is happening. lie tries to quit (the Air force), but he can't; the whole thing has progressed too far." 
"It is a very pessi rnistic play," ex pI ained veteran performer Oick Riehle, "even though it has a strong comic vein." As for the part of the Starkey, the captain responsible for handing out fatal assignments, he said: 
"Starkey is sort of the every man part in the play, probably Heller himself. He's a fellow who never hucked the system until now, never really thought ahout il. He is wishy-washy. He docs his job well, but has been in the system so long, that when in the play he has to buck it, try as he may he can't," added Riehle. "It's a pathetic part," he adds. 
Ruth, the Red Cross girl, "is in an enviable position. She's the only girl on the loose," joked 
Protest to be stated 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Dis­
sident Ia wyers in the Justice 
Department will make public 
today their statement of pro­
test against the Nixon admini­
tration's civil rights policies, particularly school desegraga­tion. 
The lawyers will distribute copies of two confidential statements which have circulated among Justice Department attorneys. The complaints, one made August 29 and the other last week, will be made public prior to an afternoon news 
Czech Commies purge Dubcek from leadership 
I' R A c; U E ( U I' I ) -T h e ('.~edwslovak Communist party announced Sunday night it had purged Alexander Dubcek from his positions of leadership and had formally approved the Soviet led invasion as a "defense against...counter revolutionary forces." 
The invasion "was not an occupation of Czechoslovak territory," according to a resolution issued after a two day meeting of the party's ruling Central Committee. 
The resolution said the committee had fired Duhcck from the all powerful Presidium, the committee's II man executive board, and from his position as chairman of the national Parliament. The former party first secretary and leader of the 1968 reform period was left with only his scat on the Central Committee itself. 
A new federal government, purged of liberals but still relatively moderate in character, was announced. Oldrich Cernik, another former Dubcek asso­ciate, was kept on as premier and party presidium member, but was greatly rebuked by being dropped from a party body directing party work in the Czech part of the nation. 
conference by the maverick lawyers' boss, Asst. Atty. Gen. Jerris Leonard. 
Leonard's news conference was called to discuss "reorganization of the Civil Rights Division," apparently as a result of the lawyers' protest. lie announced earlier a reorganization would take effect Oct. 6 and would do away with geographical aligignments. 
The lawyers group, which may hold its own news conference after hearing what Leonard has to say, already has said it does not consider the reorganization a reply to its protest. 
The group comprised of about 65 of the civil rights division's 74 staff attorneys plan to meet again Monday or Tuesday night to decide their next move. 
Their original statement of protest was sent to President Nixon, Atty. Gen. John N. Mitchell and Leonard. Leonard was tl1e only reci pi en t to acknowledge it, almost a month after it was declared. 
In his acknowledgement, Leonard said political pressures historically have been brought to bear on every agency of the government. He said, however, political pressures would not influence civil rights policies. 
His staff was not mollified. The lawyers said it was 
"intolerable"  for  the  Justice  
Department  to  submit  to  
political pressures.  

They also expressed a belief Leonard's reply was an acknowledgement that politics will control decision making at Justice. 
During an interview last Friday, Mitchell also acknowledged political pressures from congressmen, senators, and governors, but emphasized they had no effect on policy. 
lie was even more emphatic that "the Justice Department and not a group of lawyers in the civil rights division" will set policy while he is in office. 
Lanor Wright. 
Actually she's the most human character of the play," said the actress. "It's difficult to make the transitions in her part and make it believable," she says. 
"It's a great show for a university," said director Sybure. "It is heavy handed, but will have great appeal," he replied. "The show opens on October 24, then plays on the 25,26,27,30,31 and the first of November," he explains. 
The second show for the season, Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet is set for the first and second weeks of December. According to Syburg, Robert 
S p a i g h t, an English actor, IS coming to South Bend in 
conjunction with the SMC 125 <.~nniversary and will be guest director of the pl<~y. 
Late February or early March will bring two plays by modern playwright Edward Albee, The Aml'rican Dream, a one act farce, and The Death of Bessie Smith, a two act racial drama set in a white hospital in Memphis, Tennessee. 
In May, a serious drama with musical accompaniment will replace the traditional spring musical. The theatre department will present German playwright Bertolt Brecht's The Good Woman of' Setzuan. 
"We have a lot of new people on the faculty," explained director Syburg, "and we were hesitant to burden them with a 
I'Jusical as well as their other duties." lie continued. "Prohably the students will miss the musical, hut. .." 
Two other performances to be presented hy the theatre will be studio productions on d<Jtes yet to he arranged. Syburg said, "Usually studio plays arc of a less general interest to the students on campus." lie suggested that the studio program helps give less experienced performers opport uni ly to develop their craft. 
Only one studio production has been selected to date. It will consist of a marionette production of !'eta Pan for children. 
Official is optimistic of negotiations 
PARIS (UPI) An American 
official at the Vietnam peace 
talks said yesterday allied 
negotiators are optimistic the 
Communists will settle down to 
serious negotiations despite 
increased denunciations of the 
Nixon administration. 
In ·recent weeks the North 
Vietnamese and the Viet Cong 
delegations in Paris have leveled 
attacks against President Nixon 
similar to those they directed at 
forlt1er President Johnson. 
AmQrican officials also reported 
the Communist stance at the 
conference table has become 
· 'd 
more ng1 ­
0 ve r the weekend, both Communist de Iega t ions denounced Nixon's Vietnam statements at his Friday press conference and accused him of intensifying the war in South Vietnam. The North Vietnamese 
CORE steps up reparations 
efforts. 
HONOLULU (UPI)-The 
Congress of Racial Equality said 
yesterday it was "beating the 
war drums and mobilizing an 
army" to press its demands for 
$6 billion in "reparations" from 
the American Bankers 
Association. 
CORE National Director Roy 
Innis described the ABA refusal 
to pay the sum as "a weak, 
Mickey Mouse, mealy mouthed 
approach." The black leader said 
he would make "a final attempt 
to talk peace with the bankers" 
who arc holding their national 
convention in Honolulu. 
Innis said CORE was 
demanding the money as a 
"reparation to blacks for 
compound interest over years of 
exploitation and of earnings by 
Negroes which have never been 
paid. 
ABA President Willis W. 
Alexander said Saturday bankers "have been prominent in organized efforts to deal ·constructively with the problems 
of racial minorities." 
lie said more than $1 00 
million had already been made 
available to minorities through 
the federal Small Business 
Administration office. 
Alc xa n d er de scribes the 
reparations demand as 
"essentially a negative concept 
and un:.cceptable to the 
industry." He also said the 
ABA was a voluntary organiza­
tion and "can only suggest. We 
cannot make the banks do any­
thing." 
statement said Nixon "showed once again that the Nixon administration still follows the aggressive policy of the Johnson administration against the Vietnamese people." The Viet Cong said Nixon:s policies were "adventurous" and sought to prolong the war. 
Sunday'  however,  American  
spokesman  Stephen  Lcdogar,  
said,  "We  remain  optimistic  
about  the  talks  and  that  they  

eventually will settle down to a serious, business like attitude." Ledogar would not comment the I a test Communist
011 denunciations except to say they 
were "typicaL" "We remain optimistic," he added. 
Chief U.S. negotiator Henry Car>ot Lodge took note of the rigid new Communist bargaining attitude at the last session of the talks Thursday· 
"I am sorry to have to .s~y that they seemed .more ngJ~ than they have been Ill months, he told newsmen. _ 
The Co_mmumst. delegates renewed tl~e•r cal~s this.weekend for a totalunmediate withdrawal of all American troops from South Vietnam and for the overthrow of the administration 
of President Nguyen Van Thieu before negotiations can begin. 
' lnt 'I Students Assn. offers its members 
PLAN YOUR WINTER/SPRING VACATION NOW! 
Student Flights To MEXICO & SWITZERLAND Take Your Choice-Break Away And JOIN THE JET SET!!! 
(Fun-in-the-Sunll I
MEXICO 

Depart Chicago: March 27 or 28 
Return Chicago: April 4 or 5 
Trip 1rocludes: Round trip jet fore 
per person; hotel room; 4 in a 
room; baggage handling; trans­
fers; bull fight; get-ocquo1nled 
happy hour in exciting MEXICO 
CITY! 
SWITZERLAND 
DP.port Chicago: March 2i 
Return Chicago: March 28 
Depart Chicago: March 28 
Return Chicago: April 4 Trip includes: Round trip tel fore per person; hotel room; double occupancy; lift I i c k e Is; 6 ski lessons; baggage handling; lrons­,&ers; all meals; ski equipment; get­acquainted happy hour! 
(Ski Holiday!): (via Swiss Air) 

Trips sponsored by International Students ,\ssociotion, representation around the world. Make checks payable to: Int. Students As~·n., Min. Deposit, $25.00 per seat due by Oct. 15 1Bal. due before Feb. 1, 1970. Full refund 
'f ­
~=====:=~===X~~J~=~;§~!:Jt~:§~:!:;W~~~~=~===i===AA=gw================================:===::============================: 
TO: lnternationai'Students Association, 
184 Foshoy Tower, Minneapolis, Minnesota 
Enclosed find $______ (Deposit-Full) Payment to reserve___ 
seats on trip to _________departing-----­
NAME: _____________________________________ 
ADDRESS:__________ PHONE: ___ 
SCHOOL: 
PAGE 8 
THE OBSERIJER. SEPTEMBER 29, 1969
---------______________f_HJ~V.O~ii!D.l~~----------------­
Joe Theismann-butting his head against a wall 
By Mike Pavlin 
Observer Sports Editor 
Last Saturday, Notre Dame was badly beaten by Purdue. There is no way getting around it. 
This was no fluke victory, breaks played no major part. Notre Dame lost no fumbles, had only one pass intercepted, and was penalized only five yards. Purdue likewise lost no fumbles, lost one pass; but Pur­due was penalized 104 yards. 
Purdue beat Notre Dame in a variety of ways. Not only did Mike Phipps throw pinpoint pas­ses all afternoon, but his runners slithered and powered past the exhausted Mike McCoy and Bob Olson (who were magnificent) for 20 I yards. The Boilermaker defense held the Irish to 280 yards total offense and the low­est point output in 16 games. 
Purdue also beat Notre Dame becuase Purdue made the old cliche about third downs stand up. NO's Joe Theismann was faced with I 6 third or fourth down situations in which he elected to go for the first down. He was successful five times. Phipps, on the other hand, made 14of21 "big plays." 
Badly beaten. And when this happens to a team which is ranked among the nation's top ten best, there usually ensues a search for the reason, a big reason for a big loss. It is frustra­ting to watch players try their best and fail, especially good players, especially Joe Theis­mann. 
The Irish quarterback com­pleted 14-26 passes for 153 yards, but he would probably be the first to tell you that those statistics are meaningless. Joe didn't have one of his better days. He couldn't find his receiv­ers; he couldn't make the big plays. It is easy to pass every­thing off as a bad day against a fine team. But it just isn't that simple. Joe Theismann, I believe, is trying to quarterback an offense which is wrong for him and wrong for the whole team. 
A few years ago, some soph­omores named Hanratty and Seymour played unlimited pitch and catch for a National Cham­pionship. Also on that team was a splendid runner named Nick 
Eddy. When the next season 
rolled around, the coaching staff 
was faced with the prospect of 
the first two but not the latter. 
So Notre Dame began the season 
pass orientated, because there 
didn't seem to he any other 
course. 
The first four games were an aerial circus, and the Irish lost two of them. Terry Hanratty threw interceptions at a record clip ht:cause it seemed that he had to throw all the time. After the disastcrous Southern Califor­nia game, the coaches reviewed the situation and decided that they had hettrr develop a run­ning gamt! in a hurry. Suddenly, soph Jeff Zimmerman appt!ared and ran wild tht! rest of the year. A more secure and balanced Hanratty reduct!d his intercep­tions virtually to nothing, and the Irish endt!d up 8-2. 
When Jim St!ymour and Bob Gladieux left last year, not to mention Hanratty, the coaches were once again faced with a one-way situation. Or so it seemed. For re-ceivers, they had Jim deArrieta, a "convertt!d bowlegged punter" as Sports Il­lustrated called him; Tom Gate­wood, a sophomore trying to shake off a succession of in­juries; and Dewey Poskon, a largely unknown quantity who had played in the shadow of J irn Winegard ncr. 
The coaches also saw a fine group of running backs. Slow they were, all Irish hacks are slow the media claims, but pow­erful. Even better, the quarter­back was a shifty some-of-a-gun with a pretty fair arm, albeit his size left something to be desired. The apparent solution was a ball-control offense, without the complicated pass patterns tay­lor-made to free receivers. If third down and ten ever rolled around (impossible), Theismann was good enough to pass for the first down. Simple. 
This kind of an offense was 
not new to Ara Parseghian. He 
had used it in 1965 when he had 
three fine hacks and a so-so 
quarterback (Wolski, Eddy, Con­
jar, and Bill Zloch-Chuck's bro­
tht!r) in tht! wake of John Huarte 
and Jim Snow. That year NO 
was 7-2-1. Not bad really, but 
when the running machine faced 
Michigan State's super defense, 
the result was horrendous. Un­
able to run against Bubba Smith 
and George Webster, the Irish 
went down 12-3. And it wasn't 
even that close. 
That frustrating afternoon 
foreshadowed last Saturday, 
When the same type ND offense 
ran into another fine defensive 
squad. Joe Theismann, like his 
predecessor, was forced to win 
through the air, and he couldn't. 
It was not enjoyable for me to 
sit in the presshox at Ross-Adc 
Stadium and listen to the com­
ments about Joe Tht:ismann's 
passing. As I mentiont!d before, 
Joe was fighting against a had 
system. 
Notrt! Dame's game plan so 
far this season has been ball­
control running. Three runs get 
you a first down: a couple of 
first downs mt!ans a TO. North­
western fell easily, because their 
defensive pe.rsonnal were inferior 
and because their 6-1-4 defense 
was opt!n to swing passes (to 
backs), which tht!ir inferior per­
sonnal couldn't compensatt! for. 
Against Purdue's ddense, the Irish game plan fell apart. In­stead of three runs and a first down, it was two runs and third and five. Theismann was forced to get four, five, eight yards instead of the usual two or one. He had to pass. 
And when he was forced to 
pass, Theismann had to use a 
poorly-coordinated offt!nse. 
Think back to last year. When 
Hanratty passed, he it on first or second down as wdl as third, not only did he send out several receivers, but they worked hooks and crosses designed to get them free for that important penalties kept pushing back, "What do five yards mat­
Somehow, all this looks familiar 
ter? Phipps will get IS on the 
NOTRE DAME  PURDUE  
Total First Downs  21  19  
Rushing Attempts  37  57  
Net Yards Rushing  127  201  
Passes Attempted  26  20  
Passes Completed  14  12  
Passes Had Intercepted  1  1  
Net Yards Passing  153  213  
Total Plays  63  77  
Total Offense  280  414  
Interceptions  1  1  
Yards Returned  5  17  
Punts, Blocked  7,0  6,0  
Average  35.9  35.8  
Punts Returned  2  7  
Yardage  0  34  
Kickoffs Returned  5  2  
Yardage  83  46  
Penalties  1  12  
Yards Penalized  5  104  
Fumbles, Lost  0,0  0,0  
NOTRE DAME  0  7  0  7  14  
PURDUE  7  7  7  7  28  

Pur: Cooper 37 pass from Phipps (Jones kick) 49 yds. 5 plays 
Pur: Brown 3 run (Jones kick) 63 yds. 11 plays NO: Ziegler 10 pass from Theismann (Hempel kick) 79 yds. 11 plays 
Pur: Phipps 1 run (Jones kick) 52 yds. 9 plays Pur: Brown 2 run (Jones kick) 70 yds. 7 plays NO: Gatewood 20 pass from Theismann (Hempel kick) 98 yds. 11 plays 
ATTENDANCE: 68,179 (stadium record) 
NOTRE DAME RUSHING ATT ,NET YDS TO Allen 
7 63 0 Barz 7 23 0 Gatewood 1 0 0 Ziegler 9 24 0 f-luff 1 3 0 fheismann 12 14 0 
PASSING ATT COMP INT YDS TO next play." And he did, again 
Theism ann 26 14 1 153 2 and again. RECEIVING NO YDS TO It may he argued that ND's Ziegler 2 28 1 passer and receivers just aren't 
Allen 1 11 0 
good enough to warrant a large­
Gatewood 4 42 1 
scale passing attack, but let's 
Barz 2 14 0 
examine:
Paskon 5 58 0 
Joe Theismann unveiled a fine
PUNTING NO AVG 
passing arm when he shredded
deArietta 7 35.9 PUNT RETURNS NO YOS the Varsity in the Blue-Gold 
Gulyas 2 0 game two years ago. Using the KICKOFF RETURNS NO YDS same H.cnratty offenst!, he heat Allen 1 29 
USC cverywht!re hut on the 
Barz 1 14 
scoreboard last year. This year
Ziegler 1 13 
he has bt!en thrown for a loss
Lewallen 1 14 
while trying to pass only unce-­
Cisszkowski 1 13 
vs. Purdue (he has, of course,
INTERCEPTION RETURNS NO YDS Lewallen 1 5~ lost yardagl' on runs and he lost 
25 yards against Northwestern 
PURDUE 
trying to recover a fumble). He
RUSHING ATT NET YDS TO 
has proven that ht! can he a
Cooper 25 92 0 Bullock 15 71 0 dangerous scrambler. 
Brown 5 19 2 Tom Gatewood and Dewey 
Phipps 12 19 Poskon are no longer question PASSING ATT COMP INT YDS -,-o 
marks. Poskon, though seldom 
Phipps 20 12 1 113 1 
called upon, has caught <!very­
RECEIVING NO YDS TO 
thing thrown at him. Battling
Cooper 3 54 1 
against stiff coverage, Gatewood
Fenner 1 13 0 
has pt!rformed excellently. To
Bell 3 53 0 Bullock 2 25 0 say he has great potential is to Brown 3 68 0 makt! an understatement. A­PUNTING NO AVG gainst Purdue, he ran powerfully 
Lougheed 6 35.8 PUNT RETURNS NO YDS Foley 4 18 de Grandmaison 3 16 KICKOFF RETURNS NO YDS Brown 2 46 
INTERCEPTION RETURNS NO YDS de Grandmaison 1 10 
when he had the ball, while his speed and hands are more than adequate. 
Theismann and his receiv­ers finally got moving late on Saturday. They put together a 98-yard drive in II plays to score. Now granted that the game was over and that Purude defense was not exactly going all out. But it was the NO. 1 defen­sive unit that Theismann riddled, and he did it all with passes when they knew he was going to pass. And he did it with ease. 
c 
g
., 
'C 
c ct 
>·
..
.., 
lf'this article sound like 1.) a wholesale condemnation of the Notre Dame coaching staff, or 2.) a plea for 50 passes a game, then I haven't made myself clear. It is just that a situation has arisen which must he dealt with. Saturday showed that 1965 will not work this year either, at least against quality teams. But I belie~ve that this year has shown that the NO quarterback can throw and that the NO receivers are dangerous. 
I never saw Bill Zloch play, nor his receivers. But I wonder whether they were really that bad. Perhaps they were in the same position as Joe Theismann, butting their heads against a stone wall. Ara and his coaches cannot be blamed for Saturday's debacle-no one can. They had to go with what they thought was the best game plan. But just as changes were made during the 1967 St!ason when it was appar­ant that something was wrong, so I would like to see the same thing done this season. 
I would like to see N D's pass offense become more sophistica­ted. The Wishhone-T is pretty, but how conclusive is it to a balanced attack? With two men split, with Allan, Catewood, and Poskon working scientific pass patterns, with Ziegler, Allen, Huff, and Barz busting through a spread-out defense, and with a fine quarterback named Joe Theismann scrambling his line­opponents to death, I believe Notre Dame can come hack, as in 1967, and finish, not 8-2, hut 9-1. 
split second. Hanr:~tty also went to his hacks when spread-out defenses spread out too much. 
Last Saturday, Theismann used a pass offense which seemed to be designed for mini­mum rather than Hanratty­maxirnurn success. Splitting Torn Gatewood while keeping Dewey Poskon and three hacks ·tight invited smother coverage on Gatewood. Theismann tried to work the short pass, hut the hard-ch11rging Purdue line forced him to throw hurriedly. 

desperation can perhaps be measured by the appearance this year of some strikingly un­Parseghian like plays, namely re­verses and end-arounds. When was Terry Hanratty ever so un­nerved hy a third and ten sit na­tion that he had to go to an end-around? As a writer fur the /:'/karl Truth put it when motion Purdue 
