·THE WORLD TODAY 
Nixon, DeGaulle reach truce 
PARIS (UP!) -President Nixon and President Charles deGaulle reached a truce yesterday in the little cold war bet ween the United States and France, and Nixon announced the French president would visit Washington next January or February. 
They ended nine hours of private talks with mutual statements that their three days of conferences had been "successful.'' High 
U.S. officials said Nixon had "achieved the objectives he had in mind" when he began his trip a week ago Sunday. 
Nixon and deGaulle agreed on the start of four power talks at the United Nations "very soon" to try to find a solution to the Middle 
E 



OBSERVER 
Ser~~ing th£ Nutre Dame tmd St. Milr; '1 Collqe Community 
VOL. Ill, No. 91 MONDAY. MARCH 3, 1969 
12 pick up SBP petitions; 
l~ast crisis. They also discussed their divergent views over Vietnam. Before his final meeting with del;auule, who drove him to Orly 

McKenna returns his first 
Airport, Nixon met with Ambassador llenry Cabot Lodge, chief U.S. 
by Jim Raley

negotiator at the Vietnam peace talks, and with South Vietnam Vice 
A surprising total of twelve
President Nguyen Cao Ky. 

stu dents expressed their Ike pulling through pneumonia bout intentions of seeking the office 
of Student Body President by picking up their petitions andWASIIIN<;T<)N (lJPI) Former President Dwight D. Eisenhower 
campaign rules from the rules
appeared yesterday to be pulling through his latest crisis. "The area 

Committee last night. All eight
of rneumonia in the right lung base is markedly diminished," his 

previously announced candidates
doctors reported. reaffirmed their intentions by
A midmorning bulletin from Walter Reed Army Medical Center 

picking up their petitions. Four
said the 78-year-old five-star general ate his first full meal in more 

"unknowns to the race" also
than a week and "spent another good night." His heart action was "stable." 

added their names to the list as a prospective Student Body Presi­
SCUM, SWINE, PIGS and AL.GA£ march dent. 
Phil McKenna was the first 
MISSOULA, Mont. (UP!) University of Montana students, 

candidate to pick up his petition
apparently feeling left out of the current wave of campus 

and also became the first to 
demonstrations, jokingly took placard in hand last week and staged a 

return his by collecting the sig­
protest march. 

natures of a hundred students 
Representatives of SCUM (Save Children from Unfit Material), 

that recognized his q ualifica-
SWINE (Students Wildly Indignant about Nearly Everything), 

. ms. McKenna assembled over 
AL<;AE (All the Girls Against Everything) and Pl(;S (Pretty 

tifty students in the Student 
Indignant (;iris about Something) marched on the offices of the 
Center to sign the petition.
Oaily Missoulan, Missoula's only newspaper. 

Last year, the order in which 
The youthful protesters carried signs suggesting that Nancy's aunt 

a candidate returned his petition
in the comic strip "Nancy" has no visible means of support. In 

decided the order in which the 
addition, they said, Dick Tracy is too violent and Oaisy Mae in L'il 

candidate's name would appear
Ahner doesn't wear cnoUt\h clothes. 

on the ballot. This was
by Glen Corso and David 
reduction in his stipend-almost

Lammers McKenna's motive for having the
Kremlin claims border violation one-fifth of the stipend -was a 
petition in as early as he did. 

MOSCOW (UPI) The Kremlin said Communist Chinese forces Last night 25 graduate teach­"disproportinate punishment." 
Bod Rigney, a mem her of the crossed the Sino-Soviet frontier yesterday, opened fire on Russian ing-assistants held a meeting in Resch pointed out the need for a Rules Committee stated, "The border guards and killed several troops. It was the most serious the library auditorium to discuss judicial process to handle cases Rules Committee has not yet incident of its kind in the long feud between Moscow and Peking. the dissemination of a petition such as his, in order to overcome decided on how the order of the Tass, the official Soviet news agency, said Russian forces returned concerning greater priveleges and the arbitrariness of the present candidates will appear on the the fire and repulsed the intrusion of Oamansky Island in the Ussuri more pay for working teaching situation. ballot." River. The river forms the boundary between China and Russia in assistants. Specificaly, the petition calls Four new candidates entered 
the Soviet maritime territories along the Sea of Japan. The incident sparking the pe­on the administration to, " ... the race. They include John The area is about I ,800 miles northeast of Peking and 2,400 miles tition was the fining of Dick initiate just recognition of the Kraniack and Donald Dempsey, cast of Moscow. Resch, a teaching assistant in the distinction that the University ·sophomores; Paul Dillenburger, a theology department, of $200 makes in theory, between teach­sophomore with as yet no run­Nixon hears papal plea to end war by his department head, Rev. ing and non-teaching assistants." ning mate; Walsh and John James Burtchacll, C.S.C., for According to the assistants Crump, Juniors; and Buckley
VATICAN CITY (UP!) President Nixon concluded his eight-day 

missing the first day of class this present, "There are assistants and his runningmate Brown.
tour of Europe yesterday on a plea from Pope Paul VI to help end 

semester. who have one quiz section a 
The seven proviously an­
all wars now raging-including Vietnam ·and a pledge by Nixon. 

Resch teaches two sections of week, and others that teach one nounced other candidates arc
Nixon held last minute talks in Paris with President Charles 

"God in the Modern World", for of two full classes a week." The 
Mike Kendall and Bernard King,
deGaulle then flew to Vatican City for talks with the Pope. There 

which he recieves $1050 a seme­assistants concerned are those Alan Apt and John Sloan, Joe
were scufnes between police and anti-Nixon demonstrators in St. 

ster, ,plus tuition. Resch missed that " ... are in fact the sole Shadwell and John Holahan,
Peter's Square and a small anti-Nixon pray in in St. Peter's Basilica. 

the first class day because he was instructors of a course . . . " Kevin Smith and Ed Ritzenhaler,
But there was none of the bloody rioting that marked Nixon's 

skiing in Colorado. These assistants sign the grade Tim McHugh and Jim Laflin,
official visit to Rome last Thursday. There were shouts of "Free 

Resch admitted that he was in sheets, and in effect carry out 
John Mroz and Ted Jones, and
Vietnam!" and answering shouts of "Long Live Nixon!" and "Free 

Prague!" the wrong, but said that a $200 Continued to page 2 Ed McCartin and John Fiala. 

This afternoon the Student Life Council will decide the fate of parietal hours and drinking at Notre Oame. After months of waiting and hours of discussion, the two issues have finally reached the starting gate. Once the doors of 112 in the Center for Continuing Education close, there will be no turning back. Why worry about turning back? The answer to that is just two words: "student rcspon­sibility." No one worried too much about this until three weeks ago when the Honor Council decided to take a leave of absence. The reason they gave for their action was that no one was turning anyone for violating the Honor Concept. In other words, a lack of "student responsibility." The issue of student responsibility looms large in the hearts of various SLC members (nota hly administration and  SLC to vote on hall life bills faculty) and it will be THE issue by Phil Bosco and 7 p.m. Sunday, with1at today's meeting. no visitation hours beforeaction, the wording will be This should not effect the noon and beyond 1 a.m.changed, but not by much. It passage of the two resolutions, on anv dav.may be overly optimistic, but however, only their wording. b) The hall council inwith a few restrictions added to There will be a heavy emphasis each hall should be res­the resolution, it should pass by on enforcement and the ponsible for establishinga vote of 19 to 4. b rcaking of the rules will nd enforcing the aboveOBSERVER Insightprobably carry severe penalties. '10/icies. A /though princi­The drinking resolution reads The second resolution, that pal responsibility falls (as of now): on parietal hours, reads upon the student, it is also expected that every resi­"Henceforth, there will "/laving been informed dent of the hall, especially he no campus restriction of a $750,000 remodeling prefects, shall be respon­on alcoholic beverages for plan to provide parlor sible for enforcement ofstudents over 21. All suites for residence halls, these procedures. students under 21 shall be the Student Ufe Council This will be more difficultadvised of Indiana State recommends extension of than was drinking, but is shouldLaw and 0 f their existing week-end visita­pass. One suspects, however,responsibility to comply tion priviledges in resi­that it will he so leaded downwith the taw." dence halls on an em­with restrictions and limits thatThree weeks ago, this would perimental basis from the every rector, assistant rectorshave passed without too much present eleven to all week­and prefect will be armed withdifficulty. The vote would have ends with the following probably been about 16 to 7, stop-watches and whistles.guidelines: Three weeks ago, the votewith the no votes split between a) Weekly total not to would have been extremely closeadministration and faculty. exceed 24 hours between (about 13 I? 10). Now, with theBecause of the Honor Council's cht• hours of 5 p.m. Frida J'  added restfictions, it should pass somewhat easily -probably by a vote of 17 to 6. The question of waning student responsibility will manifest itself in more explicit rules and regulations, not in a closer vote. These restrictions will appease the nay votes somewhat and thus result in a more favorable margin for passage. (There will be cries of no from some members of the Council in any case. It is their feeling that they must save students from "adultery and fornication.") Tonight's meeting will he closed and the voting will be by secret ballot. No one will know who voted how, and it really doesn't matter. What matters only is that the resolutions are passed and passed in a way that is meaningful and workable.  

7HE OBSERVER MONDAY, MARCH 3, 1969
PAGE 2 



Black Forum will feature speakers, films 

by Chuck Jackson 

A "Community Forum On Black Power" co-sponsored by SUAC and the city of South Bend is to be held at Notre Dame March 16 through March 20. 
The Forum will feature several black celebrities as speakers during its five-day run. Democratic Representative from New York Adam Clayton Powell will appear March 16 in the Stepan Center, Tuesday, March I 8, there will be a debate on the topic "The Legality of Civil Rights" by Dick Gregory, and Andrew Hatcher also in the Center. Gregory was a recent presidential nominee and is a popular entertainer; Hatcher is the former Associate Press Secretary to John Kennedy. James Farmer, Undersecretary of Health, Education and Welfare, will be the final speaker of the series on Thursday night, March 20, in the Morris Civic Auditorium. 
Georgia Legislator Julian Bond was scheduled to appear on March I 6 in the Stepan Center, but was forced to cancel 
because an extended period of starting at 2 p.m. Included either a panel discussion by morning at the Continuingthe Georgia House preceedings. among the films will be "The several prominent civic leaders Education Center. A tentative replacement is New Mood", Man From Violet and a Notre Dame professor or Chairman of the Black Power Channing Phillips, presidential Drive", and "The Negro and the the appearance of a major Forum Tito Trevino is optimistic
candidate at the Democratic American Promise" as well as a 
speaker. about the Forum's outcome and convention and president of the three part series under the Speaking possibilities include remarked, "I think it is Housing and Development general heading of "A History of 
Shirley Chrisholm, Roy Wilkins, imperative the issue of Black Corporation in Washington D.C. the Negro In Black Power 
and Charles Evers. Power be opened to discussion Films will be run continously Forum/ Charles Jackson Based on the general interest in the hopes there will be better at the Center for Continuing America". 
shown in the forum, there may understanding between various Edut:ation on March 17, 18, 19 Scheduled for Wednesday is be open discussions in the minority groups." 

25 grad students ready rights petition 
Continued from page 1 assistant remarked that "For the contract be provided for each services rendered." most of the duties of a pro­last several years the director of year of teaching ..."According The petition also recom­graduate studies, Father to one assistant, "The present mends, " . . . office space for
fessor. 

Beichner, has been asked to give deal leaves the teaching assis­sonsultations with students,"The recommendations made the teaching assistants a raise. tants work-load at the discretion and " . . . faculty parking pri­by the petition in part concern He's turned them down, every of the Department head." The veleges and a faculty discount atpay. At present all teaching as­time." assistants want the present sti­the Hammes bookstore."
sistants are paid $2 I 00 a year, Other recommendations in­pend to be " ... changed from a Earlier this year Professorplus tuition, regardless of res­clude, " ... a written one year grant basis, to a payment for James Robinson, Head of theponsibility. 

English Department, went toThe assistants are requesting Arthur Pears, head of Security,that the University give them ". 
and requested parking priveleges 

Honor chairman asks
. . a stipend in the amount of for the assistants. He also went

$700 a year ... for each six to Bro. Conan, head of the
credits of teaching respon­
sibility." 


hall presidents' help 
bookstore and asked for faculty. discounts for the assistants. BothThe petition also calls for an In a recent letter to all Hall munity uncterstands what the requests were denied.
increase of $150 per year, for 

Presidents, Honor Council Honor Concept asks of each
each six credits taught. One grad The assistants choose repres­
Chairman Tom Vos requested 
SUAC 
& 
The South Bend Community 
Present a 



COMMUNITY FORUM ON BLACK POWER 
March 16-20 
Adam Clayton Powell (Democratic Representative frbm Harlem) Andrew Hatcher (Presidential Candidate of the Peace and Freedom Party) James Farmer (Under Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare) Charles Evers (Chairman of the Miss. Freedom Party) 
Seminars Discussions Films: ( 1) Negro and the American Promise 
(2) 
The New Mood 

(3) 
Messenger from Violet Drive 

(
4) and others 


Ticklilt Sales in the Dining Halls: Thursday & Friday 5:15-6:30 pm 
Student Forum Pass $2 Adult Forum Pass$3 
hall cooperation in determining "the fate of the honor system" at Notre Dame. 
Vos asks the presidents "to encourage an open dialogue that will lead to the comprehension that is necessary if an honor system at Notre Dame is to continue. Vos specifically point­ed out the general hall meetings and section meetings as being most conducive to this dialogue. 
Vos also said, "Once the com-
Razor Cuning 
Continental Styling 
Mornings -Mon., Tues., Thurs. 
Afternoon -~-~On., Wed., Sat. 
Call Mon. for STUDENT 
SPECIAL student, it must decide whether or not it wants an honor system and the responsibilities one re­quires. The Concept belongs to the students. They have the power to make it work, to abol­ish it, or to change it." 


Since receiving this letter, var­ious Hall Presidents have called hall meetings and discussed the future of the Concept. 
Gerry O'Shaughnessy, Presi­dent of Sorin Hall, said, "Tom Vos spoke at our hall meeting and explained what he did and why he did it. Then the meeting was opened to questions and general discussion." 
O'Shaughnessy also said that Vos seemed to be interested in the students' reactions and any new proposals they might have. 
SENIORS! 

Open Evenings by Appt. WHY BOTHER GOING OFF 125 E. Colfax Ave., So. Bend CAMPUS FOR PIZZA AND I-----P_ho_n_e_2_34-_9_7_3..:...7___--IPAY MORE? STOP AT TilE 
GTO's  ALUMNI CLUB INSTEAD. EVERY HAPPY HOUR ( 4:30-6:00) AND EVERY  
A car that makes you.  NIGHT.  
proud to drive  
SEE DAN TUTKO  

(class of '67) for a BONA-FIDE ND discount 
Foreign Car Service and Parts...
on your new car at 
For All Makes and Models...
WELTER PONTIAC 
IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 
1900 Lincolnway West 

2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. call 288-4831 

entatives from each department involved. These representatives would meet with, "the depart­ment chairmen, and have them bring the petitions to the atten­tion of the Dean of Graduate Students." 
Father James Burtchaell, head 
of the theology department, said 

that "the vulnerability of the 
graduate teaching assistants re­
sults from the fact that they are 
working for the same people 
they are earning their degrees 
from." 

Reverend Paul Beichner, Dean 
of the Graduate School, com­
menting on the case of Dick 
Resch, and his recommendation 
of a judicial process, said a set 
legal procedure to handle mis­
conduct by the teaching assis­
tants "would hamstring the 
ability of the department heads 
to correct a situation." 
Wine tasting 
The Free University course on wine tasting will meet Tuesday night at 7 P.M. in 104 O'Shaugnnessey. The course is open to both Saint Mary's College and Notre Dame students. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from Ttle Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 


BLACK DRAMA FESTIVAL 
TUESDAY, MARCH 4th .... Washington Hall ..... 8 P.M. 
A SLOW DANCE ON THE KILLING GROUND by William Hanley 
"The play asks the question can one survive in the butcher shop of life without love and compassion." 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 5th...... Washington Hall. .......8 P.M. 
PSALMS OF PROTEST created by the cast 
"A provocative musical review which transforms Black literature into skits depicting the evolution of Black History and Experience in America." 
Sponsored by ........... Black Arts Festival Produced by............Ebony Talent Associates of Chicago 
Admission............. One dollar per evening 
• 

THE OBSERVER

MONDAY, MARCH 3, 1969 PAGE 3 
Community Project is formed; seeks members 
by Laura Haferd 

1\ "revolutionary type" of community is being formed in a rented red house with a store front on the corner of Ivy and Bulla streets, four blocks cast of the Notre Dame Library. 1\ group of Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, together with Clay Township citizens plan to "live and learn" together in what they call the Community Action Project. Notre Dame junior Tim McCarry, one of the orin ina tors of the idea, says that the results 
of  the  project  are  
"unpredictable,"  that  it  is  an  
"experimental life style."  

The students living in the commune voluntarily assume a less-than-affluent standard of living, in order to be better able to feel empathy with the grievances with the poor and working class white, Spanish, and Indian members. It is hoped that a valid and viable learning situation can be started on the basis of give-and-take between students and workers, rather than the resented type of student social-civic project where no commitment is involved on the part of the students, where "they come in (to the underpriveledged districts), case-book in hand, 
remark on the conditions tell 
the workers what to do,' and return to the university to compile a report." The community action project forsakes the objective treatment usually given to socio-economic problems, and instead attempts to catalyze interaction between students and workers, living in and reacting to the same life situation. "/\ftcr all, as McCarry says, "students are one group which should certainly be able to understand the problems of some of these neglected minority groups. We share a lot of them." 
It seems the whole concept 
on than we often give them credit for. There is a lot we can learn from them, and it may slowly lead to the finding of their and our natural leaders and plan of action. It's a grass-roots aliancc of the alienated." 
The leaders of the project plan to bring speakers to the commune, spokesmen for the various political factions and movements among which the community members will choose their guides. Other activities will include semi-open discussion taking place in the store front of the house, and including transitory participants from the University. There will be a few beds left empty at all ttmcs tor those wishing to try the experiment. /\!though the professed philosophy behind the project is a combination of "Christian and radical," speakers will include a freely selected 

cross  section  of  "half  
Communists  and  half  John  
Brichcrs."  The  house  will  

sponsor tutoring in music and crafts, as well as a reading rack. Christian prayer sessions will be 
held. Those interested should 

contact: Charlotte Casey, (232-6142); Colin Gage, ( 1342); or John Kaschicwski, (8606). 
was an outgrowth of the events of the Dow-CIA demonstration




Black Arts Festival 
in November, and similar subsequent episodes which have convinced this group of students 

PIZZA HUT
will present dramas 

that the same forces in The second phase of Notre Ebony Talent Associates, Inc., community administration 
Dame's Black /\rts rcstival, the of Chicago, Illinois. The troupe and/or police tactics which "Black Drama," will take place is made up of highly professional oppress and frustrate students on March 4 and 5 at 8 p.m. in and exceptionally talented Black arc felt in the every day lives of 

N.D. Beer Night

artists and models dedicated to the people of the surroundingWashington llall. 
-Every Monday 7:30-1 A.M. 

Tuesday night's performance the presentation of tne true per­civic community. 
$1 pitcher

will be A Slow /Jance on the spective of Black people through "1\ nd these people are a lot Pizza Smorgasbordthe medium of the Seven 1\rts. more educated in what's going
1\i//ing Ground, a play which 
-Every Monday and Tuesday 5:30-7:30

explores the question of whether The entire Black /\rts Festival 
All you can eat plus one soft drink $1.35

or not one can survive in the has been organized by Notre 
Bikes 
Carry Out ... Check Discount

butcher shop of life without love Dame's Rights Commission 
Rates for your hall and club parties

Just the thing to get you to
and compassion. under the chairmanship of Mr. Wednesday's offering will be c;eorgc Horn, and in conjunction 
the DUNES this Spring! Did Psalms of Protest, a provocative, with the /\fro-/\ merican Society. 
you know that the SUZUKI full-length dramatic-musical re­The final phase will be entitled 
gets 200 miles to the 
view which transforms the pow­"The Black Culture in Literature 
gallon?
erful literature of noted Biack and Fine 1\rts," and will be 
No. 1 1738 Lincolnway East 
artists and writers into highly presented from March 17-23. 
288-6060
Call: ED MORAN (class of '69) 
No. 2 2307 E. Edison
dramatic skits depicting the evo­Tickets to the plays, or Spon­

at 255-9342 for that SPECIAL lution of Black History in 1\mer­sor cards for the entire festival, 
233-3827
STUDENT Price! 
ica through song, dance and dra­may he purchased at the door on ma. both nights of the dramatic per­

Also-Quality used cars The plays arc presented by formances. 
APPLICATIONS are now being accepted for the position of 



Editor-in-Chief of the OBSERVER 
The position is open to any undcrgrad uate student of St. Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame. 
/\pplicants must submit a letter of intent and resume to: THE EDITORIAL BOARD c/o Mr. William Luking Editor-In-Chicf THE OBSERVER 
Box 11 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

/\pplications for editor should be postmarked by March 13. 
BUSINESS MANAGER 
Applications for the position ofBUSINESS MANAGER to be filled immediately, arc also being accepted. Contact 283-8661, as soon as possible. 
• 
THE OBSERVER. MONDAY, MARCH 3, 1969
PAGE4 

Sizzling Irish host Creighton tonight 
Take yourself back a year, to was questionable due to his throw to end the threat and send ball away to Carr, who made an the Irish· hit 21 for 39%. The the old field house. N D vs. St. recent illness. And Bob's ND into the locker room with a easy five-footer to tie it. Redmen shot 43% themselves, John's, overtime, clock almost all opponants were 6'-9" Dan 37-28 lead. St. John's then stopped a but came out second best from gone. John Warren has the ball, Cornelius and his sophomore Arnzen opened the second couple of hearts by playing for the charity line where they 
Dwight Murphy is guarding him. replacement, Bill Paultz, who half with a three-point play, but one last shot. After a time out at converted a fine 19-26-73%. Dwight slips, falls. Warren beats towers 6'-10". 260 Jbs. the next eighteen minutes 0: 17, the Red men failed in their Notre Dame, however, made the buzzer from ten feet to win. Whitmore gave no indication belonged to St. John's. Carr and bid for a repeat of last year by good on 29 of 36 tries, a Now come back to last of weakness as he canned the Murphy couldn't hit and missing a shot, and the game percentage of .806. Warren and 
Saturday night in Jamaica, New game's first bucket. Similar shots Whitmore began to take a went into another five minutes. Paultz led Redman scoring with York. Same teams. Redmen by Austin Carr and Bob Arnzen, beating on the boards. The Murphy gave the Irish a 22 points apiece. Carr had 26 ahead 62-60 with 4:00 left. John plus free throws by Whit and Redmen closed the gap to 44-39 chance for the lead when he and Arnzen 16 for the Irish. 
Warren controlling the offense, Austin pushed ND into a at 15:57 when Warren picked up sprung the ball loose again, this Austin Carr, voted the game'skilling time. After a minute, he surprising 8--0 lead. But the his fourth foul and left for a time to Jackie Meehan who was outstanding player, continued is fouled, and coolly sinks both Irish, after hitting their first breathing spell. This reprieve was promptly fouled. Jackie's free his amazing post-injury ends of a one-and-one. Game three, missed seven shots in a balanced, however, when throw was good for only a short performances. In the last four time, right? row. Meanwhile Warren Whitmore fouled out at 14:59. advantage as Warren scored for a games, he has shot 53-90, a 
Wrong. Another nightmare warmed-up and brought the Paultz finally got the upper 6 7-66 margin. sizzling .589. Against Valpo on failed to materialize for the Irish Redmen back to 8-6 at 14:52. hand for St. John's with a basket Jones had saved another Feb. 25, he broke Bob partly because someone else was St. John's then lost sight of at 11:30, making it 50-49. The clutch shot, however, and he Whitmore's single game back from last year. Dwight the hoop and, with Whitmore lead reached 59-56 at 5:53 when used it at 2:05 to give the Irish percentage record. Two years Murphy pulled-off one of his prowling around the boards, Warren returned. A three-point all the points they needed. ago versus Butler, Whit was special steals to help send the Notre Dame zoomed out to a play by Ralph Abraham totalled Redman comebacks were 17-22-.773, but Austin aclipsed game into overtime and out an 22-8 margin. Paultz entered the 62, but Collis Jones made two of thwarted by travelling and that with a 15-19-.789 against Irish victory 71-67. game for Cornelius and began the three biggest goals fo his three-second violations. ND Valpo. 
The win capped an ND moving the Redmen. With college career to pull ND back finished the upset on foul shots The Notre Dame frosh slipped comeback string of great Whitmore taking a rest, he and within two points. be Carr and Murphy. by Valpo Saturday night 68-66. performances, dating from the Warren cut the deficet to 25-19 St. John's sat on the ball until The tough St. 1ohn's defense Doug Gemmcl paced the Irish Michigan State debacle, and at 4:47. Carr hit for two points Warren converted his two free limited Notre Dame to only 54 with 22 points and Jim Regelean lifted the Irish to 20-5. The Top and Arnzen connected on a free throws. Carr dropped in one for shots from the floor, of which added 16. Ten ranked Redmen, also NOTRE DAME 1711 the Irish making it 64-61, ST. JOHN'S (67) Returning home tonight, the headed for the NCAA, fell to PLAYER FG FT RB TP followed by another Redman PLAYER FG FT RB TP Irish face the Creighton Bluejays 22-4. Arnzen 5·12 6-8 9 16 stall. Carmaine Calzonetti Jackson Q-1 o-o 0 0 and, for the third straight year, 
Notre Dame went into the Murphy Q-5 5-5 3 5 countered Carr with a bonus Abraham 2-4 4-6 10 8 Bob Portmen. The 6'-5" star is contest facing the odds after Whitmore 4-11 3-5 10 11 toss, but Austin replied with Cornelius 0-2 o-o 0 0 currently averaging 26.5 pointsWarren 9-17 4-6 9 22
four hot-shooting nights in a Carr 8-15 1Q-12 5 26 two to change the score to 65-63 per game. Backing him up is Meehan 5-6 5 1-4 2
row. The Irish also harl to worry o-o 0 at I :40. Then Murphy did his Calzonetti 3-5 5 6'-7" center Wally Anderzunas.
Pleick Q-1 o-o 2 0 DePre Q-11 2-2 3 2
about St. John's rugged thing, just like he's been doing it The Bluejays have won seven of
Catlett 1·5 o-o 2 2 Paultz 9-13 4-5 11 22
man-to-man defense, ranked for three years. He hid along the their last nine including a close
Jones 3-5 o-o 6 6 Smyth 1-3 o-o 2 2
seventh in the country with 60.5 baseline at the fringe of the TV defeat Saturday afternoon to
Totals 21-54 29-36 37 71 Lamantia 1·2 o-o 0 2points per games allowed. At the Halftime: Notre Dame 37, St. crowd, stole up during the Gilkes 1-1 2-2 2 4 Marquette, and stand 12-12 over­
center position Bob Whitmore John's 28. Regulation: 65-65 in-bounds pass, and knocked the Totals 24-58 19-26 39 67 all. 



Swimmers succumb 
Thinclads triumph 
Coach Dennis Stark's 69-44 win. By MIKE PA VLIN and Joss of spring. 
swimmers suffered through a Saturday afternoon things Observer Sports Writer Senior captain Bill Hurd disappointing roadtrip through went only a little better in The Notre Dame thinc1a'ds swept the 60-and 3 00-Yard Ohio this weekend, dropping Athens. Here the Irish collected closed out their indoor dashes with times of 0:06.1 consecutive meets to Cincinnatti only three wins the entire duel-meet season with a 83-28 (tying his own record) and on Friday night and Ohio afternoon and succumbed thumping of Miami of Ohio on 0:31.3. Ole Skarstein grabbed University on ~aturday. 70-43. Saturday. The Irish thus ended third in the 60, then he and Tom 
Against Cincinatti on Firday Captain John May placed first up 2-0, counting an earlier Buckley completed an Irish the irish managed only two firsts in the l 00-yard freestyle with a victory over Indiana. sweep in the 300 by taking the entire meet. Bill Carson took time of :50.0. Bill Ladouceur The Highlight of the meet was second and third_ the 500-yard freestyle and Tom contributed another individual a record-breaking performance 
Pat Mullaley was a double 
Roth the 200-yard breaststroke. win in the 500-yard freestyle in the Long Jump by Freshman 
winner, in the 60-High and Low The Bearcats took the remaining with a 5:20.0 time. Mike McMannon. His fifth jump 
hurdles, timed in 0:07.6 and eleven events in piling up a The Irish took the final event measured 24-1, good enough for 
0:0 7. I. Teammate Joe Utzof the day when Vince Spohn, first p!:.ce and a new indoor placed second in the Highs.Ladouceur, Mike O'Connor, and mark. McMannon, who already 
After being "boxed-in" at theTom Hock put together a owns the ND Triple Jump start of the 880-Yard Run, ND's
NDfoe 
3:25.2 win in the 400-yard record, also placed third in the 
Rick Wohlhuter ran away from freestyle relay. --~., High Jump, at 6-0. the field, winning in I:5 3.6 with 
is Miami Notre Dame thus finishes Irish gridder Tony Capers is That event was won by ND's Vince Ambrico second. A 
their dual meet season with a the subject tomorrow as Ed Broderick, who leaped 6-8. 
coli ision on the first turn 
of Ohio will 6 6 mark. Next weekend the exr essed satisfaction
Miami be Ohserver sports editor Terry Broderick removed several runners from 
Irish travel to Detroit for the with the new track surface,
Notre Dame's opponent in O'Neil begins a four-part the 600-Yard Run, making it 
Motor City Invitational Meet. saying especially that it holds 
an easier for Irishmen Joe Quigley
NCAA basketball tour­series titled "The Black
Last year the Irish turned in firm when the jumper's lead foot 
( l: 12.3) and Bob Newman to
nament first-round game, three varsity records at Detroit. Athlete at Notre Dame. is planted. This prevents slipping finish first and third.
3:05 pm Saturday at Car­

Other Notre Dame winners
bondale, Ill. 

were: frosh Elio Polselli, Shot
Irish icers split two matches
The Redskins clinched 

Put, 50-9 with Nick Hartzell their league title Saturday Utilizing what Head Coach Lefty meager five shots. third; Mike McCann, I ,000-Yard
By GREG WINGENFELD

with a 70-67 triumph over Smith rated, "exceptionally Offensively, Center Phil Run, 2:12.1; and the Irish Mile
Observer Sports Writer 

Toledo. That gave them a good forechecking," the Irish Wittliff tallied a hat trick which, Relay quartet of Skarstein, Second period defensive play did nqt allow an OSU shot on combined with his goal and McMannon, Ambrico, and Mark
10-2 conference record and 

marked the difference bet ween goal for the first twelve minutes three assists the previous night, Walsh, 3:20.5. a 14-1 0 overall mark. defeat and victory for the of the second stanza. Net minder gave him the team scoring In what was supposed to be a NBC will televise the skating Irish this weekend as the Dick Tomasoni rested in the nets feature event, the Pole Vault,
leadership over Kevin Hoene, 

NO-Miami contest nation­pucksters split a pair, dropping a for most of the period, kicking a 47-46. Miami's Lester Smith managed a 7-5 Convo encounter with win at "only" 15-6.
ally as the nightcap of a The Irish close their 1968-69 
Gustavus Adolphus before at with a
season home pair of

tube doubleheader. clobhering Ohio State, 7-1, on Irish cagers games against the Air Force Frosh top ValpoDuquesne faces St. Joseph's the road. 
assault records Academy Friday and Saturday
of Philadelphia at Kingston, The Irish backchecked The Irish freshman basketball
night March 7 and 8. R.I., in the tv opener. vigorously for the duration of CAREER SCORING team won its fourth game in the first period of the Friday *Tom Hawkins 1820 line score: nine outings Saturday, a 68-66
There is a twin-bill also in 

night clash with the Gusties and Bob Arnzen I 643 Ohio St. 1 0 0 victory over Valparaiso.
Carbondale where Mar­

carried a 1-0 lead into the locker Bob Whitmore 1549 Notre Dame 2 2 3 7 The Baby Irish attempt to quette battles the Ohio room. But a second stanza CAREER FG% reach the .500 mark today at Valley Conference kingpin defensive slump abetted the *Larry Sheffield .438 5:30 pm when they host the 
Gustavus Adophus 0 4 3 7

Minnesotans four-goal spree Arnzen 658-1348 .488 Creighton frosh in a preliminary
at 5 pm. Notre Dame 1 1 3
which a furious final 20 minutes Whitmore 598-1253 .477 5 ·to the varsity clash. 
Student-priced seats, at 

couldn't offset. Saturday's game SEASON FT%
$3 and $4 are was quite

available at Columbus a *John McCarthy .846 through Wednesday in the different story. Mike O'Connell .833 
Convo Center office of After a fairly even first period CAREER FT% had netted the dulac icers a 2-1 *McCarthy 278-357 .779
ticket manager Robert 

lead, the defense put the clamps Arnzen 327-405 .807
Cahill. 

on the Buckeyes' attack. *denotes all-time record holder 






