
Winners Squeeze byl78 votes 
0-C,lyons,Cavanaugh swing victory to McKenna 
Phil McKenna became the new Student Union officials to determine his choice. 
Body President last night in an election The new SBP called the clectior. "goodthat fulfilled the pre-election prophecies all over, especially in turnout and inter­of a razor-close race. McKenna won by est." Well over 4000 Notre Dame stu­
just 178 votes, 2350-2172, with the off­dents cast their ballots yesterday, nearly -campus voting proving ~o be the the key 10':-r! of eligible voters. 
to his victmy. 
Mroz was in his room in Breen-Phillips 
The off-campus vote turned the tide when he was told of his defeat and could significantly toward McKenna. Although only comment, "Oh, my God." He an­he led by more than I 00 votes in Wednes­swered "no comment" when asked if he day's election (371-237), he increased his would accept a position in the McKenna lead to an even 200 by attaining a ad ministration. 345-145 margin last night. McKenna Ted Jones, Mroz's running-mate, had picked up greatly in Lyons also over considerably more to say about the out­Wednesday's vote anrl gained enough in come of the election. "It's good to se· Phil Cavanaugh, largely a freshman hall, to wiR" said Jones. "Phil is competent, Fred swing the election. is competent and the four of us together 
That was really all the new SBP needed can develop the community we were to win, his overshelming victories in striving for. I do hope that the next gov­Lyons (121-55), Moreau (21-3), and ernment doesn't develop into factions." Morrissey (265-46) only added to his vic­There were no indications that a recall tory. would be needed or asked for. Poll watch­Mroz's biggest gain was in Farley, ers from both camps had been keeping 
where he picked up 20 votes, 86 to I 06; close watch during the day at most voting hut McKenna gained in that North Quad places. h.tll, too, jumping from 177 to 191. This With the exception of off-campus, patll~rn of equal gains was reflected in Lyons, Moreau and Morrissey, voting pat­many halls. so that the lead McKenna terns yesterday were essentially the same built up in Lyons and off-campus was as Wednesday. Mroz, with the exception nl:ver seriously threatened. of Farley, retained his firm hold on the 
McKenna singled out the large off­predominantly freshman North Quad. campus vote and a closer race in Cav­Wednesday's totals showed Mroz ahead in anaugll Hall, as particularly important to those six halls 974-564; yesterday he fin­his victory. lie added that he would ished on the better end of a I 018-524 spe 1d the next few days ca~hing up on tally. In predominantly upper-class halls, sleep and would start n~1 week to Mroz split his gains and losses, picking up choose his Student Union Director. He from Wednesday in Fisher, Sorin and St. wouldn't comment on who he favors for Edward's, losing ground in Badin Lyons the position of Director, but did say that and Walsh. But of those six halls, Mroz he would depend '1eavily on the advice of managed to capture only two, Badin by present SBP Rich Rossie and the pr·~sent two votes, Fisher by 27. 

Hall Breakdown McKennaHall Mroz (Wed.) Alumni 143 136 132 Badin 63 59 61 Breen-Phillips 205 196 27 Carroll 27 25 53 Cavanaugh 154 161 128 Dillon 168 173 191 Farley 106 86 151 Fisher 85 70 58 Holy Cross 67 62 43 Howard 45 47 125 Keenan 173 165 102 Lyons 55 65 121 Moreau 3 21 Morrissey 46 52 265 Pangborn 92 85 81 Sorin 66 48 79 Stanford 184 173 80 St. Edward 41 38 85 St. Joseph 31 30 12 Walsh 77 79 113 Zahm 196 193 77 Off Campus 145 137 345 TOTAL 2172 2081 2350 Per Cent: 49.1 45.9 51.9  (Wed.) 137 54 26 46 111 177 139 60 34 101 94 68 13 243 83 78 72 72 7 105 81 271 2071 45.7  


Phil McKenna and Fred Dedrick became Notre new ~ · •Jdent Body President and Vice-President in the closest race in the school's t.istory. 178 votes separated the two tickets as 70.3% of the Student Body voted. 
Mroz pledges support 
of the polls showed us losing badly inWhat was forecast to be the tighest upper class halls., but we won in Badin,SBP election in Notre Dame history Holy Cross, Fisher, and Pangborn. A cer­proved to be so as Phil McKenna and tain amount of innaccuracy is expected in Fred Dedrick captured the Student Body the taking of a random sampling." 
Presidency and Vice Presidency by a slim Mroz and his staff were confident up178 vote margin. 
until the last minute. Eveq, after the final Runner-up John Mroz said after the results, there was no bitterne'ss about the returns were in, "I was very happy about whole thing, or any animosity againstthe turnout today. It showed that Notre McKenna. 
Dame students are interested in this Summing up the campaign, one of University. Ted and I would like to thank 
John Mroz's campaign managers
those students who believed in us and remarked, "This campaign shows a voted for us. 
tremendous up surge in student interest. "Ted and I urge everyone who backed People voted on the issues, not the per­us to work with Phil in order to make 
sonalities." 
Notre Dame a better university. We While this was offered as one reason 
would like to thank all of them. They for a large voter turnout on campus, the worked very hard for us -we are very off-campus vote can be attributed to one gratified. We ask them to join us in join­
man, Bernie Ryan. As a result of his pro­ing Phil to get Notre Dame going." gidious efforts he was dubbed by the V-P 

One of thy main themes of the cam­elect Fred Dedrick, the "Hero of the paign had been the idea of dialogue be­Campaign." Ryan canvassed the off­tween the students, and their elected campus students by phone on Thursday, officers. Ted Jones commenting on this, and spent the entire day Friday talking to said, "I was impressed with the dialogue students in the Huddle. Due to his work, between candidates and students. This tne off-campus vote total was eighty two campaign brought about an important higher then Wednesday's. step in closing the communication gap Upon hearing the off-campus vote, between student government officials and Dedrick remarked, "I'm elated by the the students." off-campus vote." McKenna also express­
Jones had a certain amount of dis­ed his pleasure, "I was glad about the satisfaction with the polls. "I think most off-campus vote ... " 
.. 

j 
_, ~"'•.... I I t ,. ~ ~I 
~ ·, I' 
.......
~:~·'>~·-~ 
Collegiate Jazz Festival swings into final competition today with 
....-r·  ..  ,."~  
\ 'Ii I  ,,  j'  I  
1:  ·t""  '·  

top bands and combo's from across the country performing over in Ste­pan Center. Frizes will be awarded this evening. 
SATURDAY, MARCH 15, 1969


THE OBSERVER
PAGE 2 


Honor meetings draw poorly 
To date, thirteen halls have responded to the request of the Honor Council to hold hall meetings in order to discuss the future of the Honor Concept at Notre Dame. Attendance at these meetings in each case amounted to 10 or 15% of the residents of the halls. 
The prinicpal issue under dis­cussion has centered around the willingness of the students to actively support an honor sys­tem. The vast majority of stu­dents who attended these meet­ings voiced the opinion that the present system is not working at all in a number of classes and that action must be taken. 
Though the realization that the present system has deterior­ated into a sham was dominant, opinion was polarized as to exactly what should be done to correct the situation. As far as these meetings have revealed, the student body seems to be evenly split bet ween those who want to go back to a proctor system and those who believe that an honor 
system  can  work  at this univer­ 
sity.  
The  more  frequent  reasons  

given for wanting to return to a 
proctor system included feelings 
that the honor system did not 
offer any advantages over the 
proctor system or that the added 
responsibility of an honor sys­
tem overshadowed the small 
advantages of having an honor 
system. 
Other students felt that an honor system at this university is doomed to failure because the average student is not willing to concern himself with whether or not a fellow student cheats. Let everybody to their won thing. Who am I to judge my neighbor? 
Still another segment of those talked to objected to an honor system because they did not feel that they, in good conscience, could "turn in" a fellow student. This segment didn't feel that other methods for controlling academic dishonesty could ever be effective at this university. · 
Almost an equal number of students admitted that while the present honor system has its shortcomings, some form of an honor system is workable at Notre Dame. According to the pro honor system faction, the reasons for the failure of the present system stem. not so much from a refusal of the student body to uphold their responsibility, as from ignorance of what the Honor Concept demands of them and what they can and must do to fulfill their responsibility to it. 
In the minds of most stu­dents, their responsibility to the Honor Concept amounts so sim­ply turning in cheaters to the Honor Council. Students in favor of r~taining the Honor system point out that this method is not the only one available to control dishonesty in the classroom, that a re­emphasis on actions other than turning someone in would go a long way towards revitalizing the present Honor system. 
No specific suggestions for changes in ~he Honor Concept have arisen from these meetings, but Tom Vos, Honor Council chairman, says that they have demonstrated that the question of whether or not the students at this University want an Honor system docs not have an obvious answer. 
He pointed out that more than 15% of thirteen halls have to become active in the discus­
THE WORLD TODAY 
. 
Nixon decides to proceed with ABM 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -President Nixon decided yesterday to proceed with a "substantially modified" antiballistic m_issile system which would be unmistakably defensive in character. 
The Nixon plan -announced in a news conference statement ­would move ABM sites away from big city areas but would still cost $6 billion to $7 billion. The outlay estimated in the Johnson administration for the coming year, however, would be cut in half. 
Nixon said the Sentinel system he has decided upon has three major aims: -To protect U.S. land based retaliatory forces against direct attack by the Soviet Union. 
-To defend the American people against any nuclear attack the Chinese Communists would be able to mount in the next I 0 years. 
-To safeguard against any accidental missle firings from any 
source. 


Astronauts welcomed In Houston 
CAPE KENNEDY (UPI)-Three proud and happy astronauts, "off the hook" with their kids and anxious to see their wives, sped toward home yesterday in a red, white and blue airplane from the Apollo 9 spaceflight which cleared the way for Americans to walk on the moon. 
But, like any travelers who leave the country, spacemen James A. McDivitt, David R. Scott and Russell L. "Rusty" Schweickart had a date with a customs agent who boarded their plane at Cape Kennedy for the flight to Houston. 
And, like any traveling fathers, they were glad to receive an unexpected bonus at the airstrip -gift wrapped presents for their 
sions oLthis issue, and disclosed that towards this end, the Honor

THE. BRAND X 
Council is preparing a question­naire that will be distributed to students and faculty next week in preparation for a campus-wide 

presents 
referendum. According to Vos, the ques­tion that each student must 

ST. PATTY'S DAY 



KICKOFF PARTY 
decide is: 

"Realizing that an Honor system demands more than per­SAT., MARCH 15 HILLSIDE BARN 
-Free IRISH Refreshments! 
sonal honesty, do I want an

$4.50 
Honor System at Notre Dame?"

Buses 7:30 to 8:30 8:30PM 


"Remember, we're nonviolent, so be careful ofyour 
aftersha~ ~ 


\v~r:j\\.\[~) 
children. 
McDivitt, Scott and Schwcickart flew home via the cape after 
spending the night on the recovery carrier Guadalcanal, which 
picked them out of the Atlantic Thursday. 
In their I 0 days aboard Apollo 9, they proved the spidcrlike 
moon Iandi craft -which McDivitt and Schwcickart were the first 
men to fly in space -is ready to go to the moon. 
Their flight cleared the way for Apollo I 0 to orbit within 50,000 
feet of the moon in May and for Apollo II to try a landing in July. 

North VIetnam announces talltdemands 
PARIS (UP I) North Vietnam served notice yesterday it is not 
interested in secret talks with the United States unless the Viet Cong 
also participates. 
A Hanoi spokesman said his negotiating team in Paris was sticking 
to its policy rule that "the United States should make any peace 
offers in the four way Paris conference on Vietnam." 
Without further qualification, the spokesman's remarks were 
taken by diplomatic observers to mean that North Vietnam was not 
anxious to enter any talks from which the Viet Cong would be 
excluded. 
The North Vietnamese official was commenting on a remark by 
U.S. officials Monday that Washington would be willing to begin backstage bargaining with the communists, presumably to get out of the present stalemate in the widely publicized plenary sessions. 

Joint chiefs deny Pueblo mission report 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -~louse investigators reported yesterday that the Joint Chiefs of Staff never received a message addressed to them urging study be given to protecting the USS Pueblo during its last intelligence gathering mission. 



~~~:\[12
'~ ~ 1~ ~ 

~ ~~\ \\ 


r ~)
J~, 
~ 
)\ 

'(.
~\) 
Wild-eyed coeds can turn any peaceful demonstration into a full-scale riot, so be careful how you use your Hai Karate® After Shave and Cologne. But just in case your hand slips, we include instructions on self-defense in every package. (If you're a paci­fist, maybe you'd better read the instructions twice.) 
Hai Karate-be careful how you use it. 

Instead, said a special House armed services subcommittee, the 
warning  was  read  by  staff  aides  anrl  sent  on  to  the  Pacific  
commander.  There  it  was  similarly  eval uated  and  disposed  of at  
lower echelons.  

The message, written over the signature of the director of the National Security Agency, was sent in late December, 1967, on the same day the Joint Chiefs spent about an hour approving hundreds of reconnaissance missions, including the one that led to North Korea's capture of the Pueblo on Jan. 23. 
The Joint Chiefs approved the Pueblo mission as a low risk operation, the subcommittee said, but the message to them suggested that "the characterization of the mission as minimal risk might be wrong" and that protection for the Pueblo might be considered. 

Psychologist regards Sirhan Incapable 
LOS ANGELES (UPI) -A psychologist testified yesterday he believed Sirhan B. Sirhan was incapable of premeditating an act of murder such as the assassination of Sen. Robert F. Kennedy. 
Martin M. Schorr, a clinical psychologist testifying for the defense at Sirhan's murder trial on examinations he gave the defendant last November, replied with a firm "no" when he was asked: 
"Is it your opinion ... that any such person as Sirhan could maturely and meaningfully premeditate, deliberate and contemplate the gravity of the act of murder?" 
Under direct questioning by associate defense counsel Emile Zola Berman, Schorr also testified Sirhan as two personalities. The 24 year old Arab immigrant is aware of his two personalities but he docs not know that one of them is the personality of a killer, Schorr said. 
Schorr, who spent his second day on the witness stand at the trial which began Jan. 7, also testified that Sirhan once imagined himself the killer of Moshe Dayan, Israeli defense minister. 
The Observer ·is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 


------------------~---­


Guy DeSapio 
Behind the scenes 

Student Body Presidential races arc pretty hectic at Notre Dame. Usually each candidate has a large staff of immediate campaign workers and advisors and an even larger staff of people who do the· majority of the work. They go campaigning door to door, talking up their candidate and distributing all kinds of campaign material at all times of the night. 
0/JSHR VHR polls show that during this one week period more classes arc cut, more flyers arc printed, and more events arc can­celled than at any time of the year. The first two items arc of little consequence. The third item is of more concern, though, because it forced us here at TJJH OUSHR VHR to make up more news this week than we usually do. 
Take for example some of the things that we usually cover. Like the Academic Commission. Since the aborted Pornography and Cen~ sorship Conference the only thing that the Academic Commission 
has  come  up  with  was  three  girls from  Bennington College who  
spoke  about  campus  revolution  and  even  that  didn't  go  too  
smoothly.  

Somebody forgot to get a room for them to speak in, so they were taken to the second floor of La Fortune where they were left ­literally abandoned. The girls sat around and had an informal dis­cussion with a group of students -for over three hours. Finally somebody decided to find somebody from the Academic Com­mission to get the girls off the hook. When somebody finally showed up the girls had just about missed their connections out of South Bend. Wonder whether the slow down and the confusion had anything to do with the fact that almost the entire Academic Commission was tied up in John Mroz's campaign? 
And then there's the llall President's Council. Their meeting during the campaign happened to be cancelled, as was the Student Senate's. The chairman of the former happened to be running for Student Body President while the Chairman of the latter was the Student Body President who was out campaigning for him. Meanwhile the WAR (War against Racism) Conference scheduled for late-February was rescheduled for sometime in April by its chairman -who else?-l'hil McKenna. 
And then there were the things that happened that arc too unbelievable to report. Like the McKenna campaign worker who called up Tlfh' ORSHR VHR office at one o'clock in the morning on Wednesday warning us to be careful of the Mroz campaign people who were going to try to "capture" the O'Jscrvcr on the way to the printer. The caller claimed the "Mroz people" were afraid that Till:' OIISHR VHR endorsement of McKenna might hurt them. Actually though we weren't afraid because the "Mroz people" had already called us to make sure that we would endorse McKenna because they were sure that it would help them. 
Then there's the campaign worker who claims to have saved his candidate from a disasterous fate. /'. mc•:t:ng was scheduled for Wednesday night, the worker claims, hetwucn his man (a winner in Wednesday's primary) and another candidate (a loser in Wednesday's primary) to discuss the possibility of the loser throwing his support to one of the winners. The loser had no intention of supporting this particular candidate, however, and according to the worker had "bugged" the meeting hoping to trick the other contender into saying something indiscreet. I lowever, our worker and his friends sized up the trap perhaps a portable tape recorder hidden in an empty Budweiser case -and stopped the unsuspecting candidate before he entered the meeting. Such is Notre Dame. 
I imagine, however, that any community which wants to live under a democratic system of government has to sacrifice something and tolerate a lot during election tim c But democracy is a good way of electing leaders. The leadership people want -or, at least -­the leadership they arc lead to believe they want. 
In any case, by the time this column goes to press, Notre Dame will have a new Student Body President. Whoever it is, we wish him the best of luck and of success. lie will have our support when we feel he is right, our criticism when we feel he's wrong, and our respect at all times. 
Roth candidates are good men -qualified men -honest men. They arc individuals of integrity and concern. They are men of foresight and of progress. To the winner, best wishes. To the loser, we hope he finds another means of expressing his concern for Notre Dame. 
In other campus news, a group of seniors have formed a vigilante society to patrol the senior parking lots. The group intends to protect against the growing vandalism and pilfering of student cars. I guess they feel that when a thief can jack up a 1968 Camaro,.take off four wide-oval tires and mag-wheels and replace them w1th a lesser quality substitute right under the nose of the security police patrol -something else is needed. . 
Then there is the announcement of the formation of the Committee for Student Liberation. This group feels that the fines for various student parking violations arc excessive. As a protest they intend to roam the parking lots removing tickets from student cars and mailing them to Mr. Pears. They've notified Mr. Pears of their intent in an anonymous letter and have already mailed him several 
tickets. "We choose to remain anonymous," the letter states, "because of the punishment our action would draw." They ask people who sympathize with them to remove any parking tickets they sec and return them to Mr. Pears. One warning from the Committee to any sympathizers though: "Be careful in carrying out our method of protest, for your capture would draw the punishment of. many others on your heads alone, while we could only stand by silently and watch." Concerned students? There must be another way. 
THE OBSERfii:R.SATURDAY, MARCH 15, 1969 
PAGE 3 



Voor to file for court order on film 
William E. Voor, Jr., St. According to the Prosecutor, because of this business, but I'm Joscph County Prosecutor, re­a pornography conference would prepared to take more if I have to."
vealed in an interview yesterday have been entirely legitimate, The prosecutor, who gradua­
afternoon that he still has in his and possibly beneficial, but an possession the film Kodak Ghost unauthorized pornography exhi­ted from Notre Dame I 5 years Poems. which was confisc.ated bition simply violated the law. ago, expressed strong concern from the Notre Dame campus "I don't think I ~even needed a for his alma mater's well-being. 
"We've never had any troubleone month ago by county law­search warrant to take that like this before. Unfortunately, I

men. film," he said. expect more from activists who
"As for the film," · Voor Voor made it clear that he stated, "I'm planning to file a will take no action against any­may come in to disrupt the place, but I hope I'm wrong."
petition and get a court order to one involved in the February 7 have it destroyed The county disturbance· "In view of Father sheriff will probably take it from Hesburgh's statement, I decided there." He feels that there is no to withdraw from the internal question about the legality of affairs or the University. How­the recent police action since ever, if the law is broken at students "acted in open defiance Notre Dame again, we'll go in of an administration order." again. I've gotten a lot of abuse 


THE OBSERVER SATURDAY, MARCH 15, 1969
PAGE4 

Powell to open Black Power Forum Sunday 


individual lectures at $1 for non

Congressman Adam Clayton 
Commission, the Urban League, scheduled for March 18 at 8 cation and Welfare, will close the 
-students and 50 cents for stu­

Powell of New York City will 
the NAACP, the Chamber of p.m. in Stepan Center. Hatcher forum March 20. Farmer, who 
dents will be on sale prior to

keynote a Community Forum 
Commerce, and the St. Joseph is currently active in business was fo'rmer national director of 
each lecture. 

on Black Power with an 8 p.m. 
County Council of Churches. and public relations in New the Congress of Racial Equality, 
Tito W. Trevino, Notre Dame

address this Sunday at Stepan 
A debate on black power be­York City. will speak at 8 p.m. in the Morris 
junior and Forum chairman, said 

Center. 
tween Dick Gregory, Chicago Mrs. Shirley Chisolm, a black Civic Auditorium. 
the purpose of the forum is to

The four-day forum is spon­
comedian and candidate for pre­congresswoman from the Bed­Forum delegate cards at $2 
present spokesmen · for various

sored by the Student Union Aca­
sident last November of the ford-Stuyvesant section of for students and $3 for non­
black power viewpoints so as to

demic Commission, with the as­
Peace and Freedom Party ticket, Brooklyn, will speak at 8 p.m. -students and covering admission 
increase knowledge and under­

sistance of several South Bend 
and Andrew Hatcher, assistant March 19 in Stepan Center, and to all four speeches have been on 
standing of the movemtmt

civic organizations, including the 
White House press secretary James Farmer, undersecretary of sale from Room 120 
among students and members of

Junior Chamber of Commerce, 
under President Kennedy, is the Department of Health, Edu-Breen-Phiiiips Hall. Tickets for 
the South Bend community.

the Mayor's Human Relations 
SLC subcommittee amasses 500 pages of testimony 
The special Student Life According to Charles Nau, chair-the Conference itself or with the David Kahn, two prominent previously suspended for a week Council subcommittee investi­man of the subcommittee, a events and actions surrounding figures during the conference because of his participation in gating the circumstances sur­report will be submitted to the it. are to be tried by the Campu~ the C.I.A.-Dow Chemical rounding the police action dur­Student Life Council "within Last week, St. Joseph County Judicial Board sometime in the demonstration last November. ing the Pornography and Censor­the next three weeks." Prosecutor William Voor testi-near future. This will be The suspension never became ship Conference has been con­The subcommittee is com-fied before the subcommittee McNamara's second bout with reality for it was repealed by the ducting hearings for the past posed of Prof. James Massey, and stated that the county the judicial system. He had been Board last month. four weeks. The subcommittee Prof. Charles Allen, Rev. would not bring charges against has already massed together over Thomas Blantz, C.S.C., Brother any student or faculty member 
Music workshop director named 

500 pages of testimony and John Scholte, C.S.C., Nau, and of the University. Dean of Stu-photographs chronicalling the Michael McCauley. They have dents Rev. James L. Riehle, Dr. Martin Mailman, com-The workshop called -"Com­been hearing testimony from C.S.C., however, has broughtevents of February 7, 1969-the poser and professor of music at prehensive Musicianship in Con­everyone who had any con-charges against two Notre Dameday the University will come to North Texas State University has temporary Education" will· benection what-so-ever with either students. Martv McNamara andremember as "Black Fridav " 
been named director of a held June 16 through 20 as part ~~~-0~,-N~S~C-R~'-P-T~O~P~E-N~'S~M~-Y-S~T~E-R~Y~T~O-U-.-R~~~gr~u~ wmkiliop ~ mu~ of t~ 1969 ~int Mary's
II teachers to be held in June at Summer Session. 
Saint Mary's College. D r . M a i I m a n , a n Dr. Willis Stevens, chairman award-winning composer whose of the Saint Mary's music works include chamber and

OF EUROPE FOR A MONTH • 
department, said the workshop orchestral music, film scores, is designed to give music celevision music and an opera, teachers and education majors at "The Hunted," will come to the graduate level an oppor-Saint Mary's directly from the


AND TAKE A CHANCE ON THIS POI.AROIDl 
tunity to explore important Eadtman School of Music in 
national trends in music educa-Rochester, N.Y. where he is tion through individual projects scheduled to direct a symposium in teaching, composition, on contemporarY music. analysis and research. 
Partlme Income? 
Summer Income? 
Bestline urgently needs people. Call 255-0297 or 282-1693 for details of meeting at Indiana Club March 15 at 8:00p.m. 




NEW CONTEST 
When You Purchase Your Own Scrip to Pen At The Bookstore, The Cashier Will Give You A Lucky Nimber Which Could Be The One Drawn On March 31 . Be Sure To Purchase Your Scrip to Pen And Also Enter The: 
SCRIPTQ_ MYSTERY TOUR· 
You have nothing to lose. And everything to gain. Just send in your Mystery Tour entry blank. 10 Lucky Gals and 10 Lucky Guys will tour Europe-together-like it's never been toured before. Four weeks of joy and ecstacy. In Europe's grooviest cities. You start in London-the rest is a mystery. Only the bus driver knows the way. Bistros by night. Beaches by day. Scripto will wine you and dine you ... all for the price of a juicy Scripto pen. 
Available at the Notre Dame Hammes Bookstore 
J 






