
HHH chief speaker at Indian Confab 
by Bro. Patrick Carney 
When the students return to the campus following the Christmas holidays, they will be joined by a newly appointed professor. No, not a Notre Dame professor, but Hubert Humphrey, former vice-president of the United States who will be here to take part in the Indian Conference. 
Humphrey's address in Stepan Center at 7:30 p.m. on Tuesday, January 6, will highlight the four-day conference seeking to understand the plight of the American Indian. 
All other activities will take place in smaller groups to allow for more interaction between the speakers and the audience. These other programs will take the form of either talks and dis­cussions in the Library auditor­ium or addresses to individual classes. 

professors who would like to have members of the Indian community lecture to one of their classes. There has not yet been enough time for replies. 
The more formal events will open on Monday evening, Jan­uary 5 at 8:00. Professor Peter Michelson formerly of Notre Dame and presently teaching at the University of Wyoming will be the featured guest. He will read from his recently published Indian Anthology. Kurtz also said that Fr. Hesburgh might officially open the conference if he is in town at the time. 
In addition to Humphrey, a number of Indians will make their appearance on Tuesday. 
Most will remain on campus for two days. 
Law and government are the major interests of the first three-Bob Burnett, Reuben Snake, and Shirley Witt. They will conduct small symposiums in the library throughout the 
day. 
Burnett has a background of being a lobbyist for the Indian peoples in Washington. The other end of the problem is represented by Snake who served as a member of Project Head Start for some time. An­thropologist Witt, although not an Indian, has specialized in labor relations and is a noted advocate of "Red Power." 
On either Tuesday or Wed­nesday of the first week of January, the committee hopes to have Louis Bruce, Commissio­naire of Indian Affairs from Washington, D.C., to present the government's side of the story. 
Mr. Bruce has said that he will be here if he doesn't have to testify in Congress. If he cannot make it, he will send one of his associates. It is hoped that the representatives of the Indian na­tions will be able to interact publicly with the men from the Bureau of Indian Affairs. 
In an attempt to add a facet of the problems faced by the Indian which is often over­looked, Jesse Sixkiller will speak on the topic "Problems of Urban Indians." Mr. Sixkiller represents the American Indians United of Chicago and will consider the difficulties faced by Indians who are interested in continuing their education. Other thant this, the main thrust deals with life on the reservation. 

Four more speakers will take part in the final two days of the sessions. These include Gene Crawford, Leonare Springer, John Dick, and Simon Ortez. Dick is a Medicine Man who does not speak English. He has been given a grant by the government to teach Indian youngsters about their culture and lore. For the convenience of the Notre Dame students, Alice Lewndorf will do the inter­preting. 
The rather dynamic poet Ortez will add some readings on Thursday. 
At the conclusion of the week's activities, Ned Hatathli, President of the Navajo Com­munity College, will add his remarks. The significance of Mr. Hatathli's presence can be seen from the fact that he will be judging the student response with an eye to approving the proposed exchange program between his school and Notre Dame. This is one of the main goals of the Indian Conference. 
Junior Parents Weekend strives for realistic view 
by Don Ruane 

"This is the only time during their four years here that such an event will be offered to the juniors and their parents," said Jim D' Aurora as he described the Eighteenth Annual Junior Parents-Son Weekend, which will be held on March 13, 14, and 15. 
"The weekend, "according to D'Aurora, "has been more of a public relations weekend in the past, but it should be more of an educational experience." This year the juniors will attempt to have their parents relate to their son's major field of study and the issues he must face. D' Aurora noted that there will be members from each major on hand to present a "realistic view" of their field. 
The weekend will officially o­pen at 4 p.m. on the thirteenth, when parents may register in the lobby of the Center for Con­tinuing Education. When the parents register, they will receive weekend packets, accom­modation lists and tickets for the Presidential reception Satur­day afternoon. 
On Saturday morning, a "ma­jors presentation" will be given by the various faculty members. The talks will be given in various locations to be announced. A Hall Fellow luncheon will start at II :15 in the halls that have the Fellows program. An alter­nate luncheon will be served in the South Dining Hall for those 

Jim D'Aurora 

students who live in halls with­
out the program. This affair will 
be highlighted by a special 
mPnu. _ 
A discussion of topics and is­sues relevant to campus life will be held from I: 15 to 3:15 Satur­
day, under the direction of Peter Burke. D' Aurora listed the fol­lowing major topics to be discus­sed: 
1: The status of ROTC on campus. 
2: The effects of the Co-ex program. 
3: The positions and hopes of campus minority groups, par­ticularly the Black groups. 
4: New changes in different a­reas of student life. 
The highlight of the weekend will come Saturday night when the Presidential dinner will be held in Stepan Center. This din­ner, which will last from 7:30 till 10 p.m., will feature Uni­versity President Theodore M. Hesburgh and Junior Class Pres­ident Barry T. Doyle as speakers. 
A special Mass for Juniors and their parents will be held at 8:15 
a.m. on Sunday in Sacred Heart Church. At the same time, con­temporary Masses will be held in selected hall chapels. A com­munion breakfast is scheduled from 9:30 to 10:30 in the North Dining llall. A noted speaker, possibly Dr. Thomas P. Carney of the university Board of Trust­ees and the SLC, will address the 
gathering. 

D' Aurora said that accom­modations can be arranged through the weekend's com­mittee and he urges I he juniors to take advantage of this. Par­ents will be able to select from seven establishments. 
Summa collects S45million in two years; 40% earmarked for faculty development This is the first of a two part series on was to continue the endowments in date: SUMMA. SUMMA. It is writ/en by Observer Staff continuing three-year programs. The SUMMA campaign began in 1967 Reporter Mike Mooney Colleges and universities across the as a five-year program, planning and The .words on the title page of the nat ion were subjected to intense promotion req!Jiring the first year, actual project booklet read "A comprehensive examination by-the Foundation as to fund-raising the remaining four. The Program to generate $52 million in their qualifications for participation. At program was ambitious in more than its support for the Development of the the conclusion of the investigation, Notre $52 million goal. It came directly on the University in depth and the achievement Dame, along with four other institutions, heels of two previous campaigns whcih of its highest priority goals 1967-72." For was invited to join in Ford's Challenge had jointly raised a comparitively smaller many current Notre Dame students, this program, as the project was called. $46 million. Moreover, the burden of thepublic relations prose and the $52 million Through Challenge I, begun in July of campaign was to be carried by men less total is the full extent of their knowledge 1960 the University raised $18 million than twenty years out of Notre Dame,of "SUMMA-Notre Dame's Greatest from:friends and alumni, the total coming since 70% of all alumni have graduatedChallenge." to $24 million with the addition of the since 1950. These men, actually justBut the project is much more than PR maximum Foundation grant. Challenge II establishing themselves in their prose of even the flat $52 million goal. It began in 1963 and raised $22 million professions and with still-growingis, again in the words of the booklet, an with the addition of the Ford's $6 families, would seem to be less inclined to attempt to "chart the direction in which million. contribute to their alma-mater than anythe University is going in the next five Challenge III was to have begun in other group. years, years which arc really critical for 1966. Before it was started, however, a Luckily for the University, theseNotre Dame." change in the administration within the negative aspects had only a negligible, ifSUMMA actually began in the late Ford Foundation cancelled the program any, effect on the project. Perhaps the1950's with the inauguration of a funding entirely. The Ford Foundation now most heartening aspect of SUMMA hasproject supported by the Ford assists universities only on the level of been the response of alumni and friends.Foundation. The Foundation had a plan specific programs, not in general The average alumni gift has risen duringto encourage development programs of fund-raising efforts. the three campaigns from $345 forthose universities and colleges they felt Notre Dame, facing the shut-off of the Challenge I, to $431 for Challenge II to ahad national stat urc and real· possibilities Foundation's bonuses, had to decide whopping $918 for SUMMA.of producing national leaders. whether or not to continue to grow by Now, after only two years, theThe plan would ask those chosen gambling on an additional funding project SUMMA campaign has gathered over $45schools to raise $12 million on their own or to risk stagnation. The question million-87% of the total goal. in a three year period, to which the Ford answers itself; the University was forced, James Frick, Vice-President in chargeFoundation would add $.50 on the dollar by the demands of expanding higher of Development, cites two reasons for the up to $6 million. Though never officially education, to inaugurate on its own the increasing financial response: I) "a m1.1chstated, the intention of the Foundation most ambitious fund-raisin ro·ect to continued on page 6  

711£ O&I'ERfl!1t 
Y-AF membersoutline conservative philosophy 
by John DiCola 
This is the first in a series of articles about campus political organ­izations. 

Members of the Notre Dame Chaper of Y AF (Young Americans for Freedom), set forth the basic philosophy of the campus group in an interview last night. The members pointed 
Observer insight 

out that, although the Chapter shares the basic elements of conservatism possessed by the National YAF movement, the Notre Dame group attracts a different type of conservative. 
Tom Thrasher, an active member of the Notre Dame YAF, indicated that the YAF image tends to appeal to those people who are most active in presenting their philosophy. So much so that, on the national level, the members of YAF tend toward the extreme right. 
"The Notre Dame Chapter of YAF, in its makeup, has avoided the extremist types," Thrasher said. "A good number of our members are people who believe in their conservative philosophy, and are able to intelligently defend it," he added. Thrasher pointed out that people ranging from the moderate to the far right would be comfortable in the ND Chapter. 
Chris Wolfe characterized 

Thomas Murphy 

Y AF as a group which can take a good critical look at itself. Wolfe feels that organizations such as SDS or the older ASP "are really unable to see how pretentious and ridiculous they look; while YAF can look at itself with a 
sense of humor." 

Wolfe went on to relate some of the political beliefs held by the Y AF and applied these ideas to the campus situation. 
"We believe that the government is not a necessary evil," Wolfe stated, "but it has limited functions, and that once those functions are exceeded, it tends ever more toward tyranny." 
He went on to say "Our campus chapter is characterized by a dislike of the attitude of arrogant liberals who believe that they have an absolute right to determine the course of the University in educational, moral and other areas." 
"We especially oppose the tendency of those•who try to impose their judgement and ideals on the rest of society." 
Thrasher attempted to explain why YAF has not been very active on the Notre Dame campus recently, in this way,"The problem of a conservative organization is that it does not tend to initiate thing; it tends to reacte to the activities of other groups rather than take bold, creative action." 
Another reason for YAF's seeming inactivity, according to Thrasher, is that many members of the group believe that "the primary objective of the student is to become educated, and because of this, they tend less than liberals to be activists or radicals." 
Exoect Membership increase 
.Although YAF experienced a drop in membership during the summer, bringing their present membership to approximately twenty-five active members, they expect an increased membership in the second semester. The rise is indicated by a number of interested students who will be invited to join YAF in a short time. The YAF hopes to increase their membership to almost seventy-five students. 
Y AF in Student Government 
Thrasher pointed out that YAF is very much involved in student government, with members of the Student Senate also Y AF members. Thrasher said, "It has been my experience in student government, that conservatives are more responsive to the majority of people who don't get involved in government. It has been my experience at Notre 
Dame that the men who are called conservative around here have been more representative representatives of the students of Notre Dame. I think that the radical left, being in office for so long, have encountered the problems of those who held office for too long a time, and have lost touch with the student body. They tend to represent their own strong convictions rather than do what the Student body of Notre Dame would like to see done. The conservatives, because their beliefs are held by 
others,  and  because  of  their  
philosophy,  are  better  
representatives."  
Tom  Mignanelli,  another  

member of the Notre Dame YAF, added, "It is my opinion that the majority of people who are liberal are often not concerned enough with the individual student, and are content to solve their own problems, these moral and political problems, which do not affect the students, which do not involve the students." 
More Active Role 

Glen Corso somewhat summed up the basic feelings of theYAF, saying, "I feel that the YAF should be an activist organization. It should be vigorously promoting its ideals and philosophy in every aspect of campus life. I don't feel that it is enough for us to just sit back and react to situations that come up. I feel that we have to seize and hold the initiative." 

To release first Juggler today Emphasis on poetry in first issue 
The first issue of The Juggler, Notre Dame's literary magazine, will be delivered to subscribers today and tomorrow. The record 
ATTENTION SENIORS 
1. If the cost is the same as in South Bend, would you attend the Senior Ball if it is held m Chicago? 
e.g. BlacJrstone Palmer House Yes No ___ 
2. 
Would you prefer a full weekend __ or one night ___ of activities in Chicago? 

3. 
Would you have vour own transportation? if not, prefer N.Y. Central_ Bus__ Plane __ 

4. 
Do you prefer Tux __ Tails~­


Drop these in the boxes in the dining halls, lunch & dinner today, or in the box at the Senior Bar. 
sixty-four page issue has heavy emphasis on poetry, but also contains artistic photography, fictional prose, and some book reviews. Emphasis m subsequent issues will be placed on fictional 
prose instead of poetry. 
The Juggler, in accordance with the rules governing campus publications also announced the formation of their publications board. Dr. John Mathias and Mr. Thomas J. Jemielity, both of the English department, and John Zimmerman have.been named to this board. 
The Board met earlier this week to decide policy for the 1969-1970 Juggler. They defined their responsiblility as primarily one of reviewing each issue after publication, and giving advice for subsequent issues. This board also handles the naming of new editors, and can remove an 
THE STRUGGLE FOR PEACE 



at Notre Dame 

IN THE MODEL. UNITED NATIONS • • • 
TO PARTICIPATE 
Complete Coupon Below enclose with three dollars and send to: 
Appropriate forms will be sent to you. 

Tim Walch Del.egate Director 237 Breen Phillips 
Notre Dame. 

NAME: ADDRESS: ---------------------------------------------­
editor who they feel is inadequate. 
The University rules stipulate that an administrator must sit on the publications board of every student publication. Since The Juggler was unable to find an administrator, their publications board chose to waive this stipulation. They had asked an administrator, and he refused. 
The Juggler has been selling subscriptions for this year's three issues for $2.00. Two hundred subscriptions have been sold thus far, and The Juggler plans to continue selling reduced price subscriptions for subsequent issues. 
l'ublic sales for the first issue of The Juggler will begin shortly after Christmas vacation. They will be available for 75 cents per issue from hall representatives. 
Night editors: Jim Holsinger, John Knorr 
Layout design: Phil Barth 
Layout: Dan Shaw, Susie Bury 
Headlines: Frank Weigand, 
Rich Smith 
...... Last Chance ... 

All SMC girls interested in backseat boogie ' or how to hold your liquor 
Call now: 283-1026 ask for, 
JoJ o, Pruss, Or. B., or "Crusher " 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Obse;,;er, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 

Senate gives Nixon trade restriction powers 
' 

WASIIINGTON (UPI) Gore faces a tough battle for fin, Mich., and Democrat Ed­tration supporter, has not hid­New England's shoe and elec­The Senate voted over the ad­re-election next year and has ward M. Kennedy, Mass., voted den his annoyance at the White tronic plants have been especial­ministration's opposition Wed­been singled out by Agnew as a against it. House's reluctance to take steps ly hard hit by foreign competi­tion. So have southern textile
nesday to give President Nixon foremost Republican target. He which ne said were m:~ssary tc broad-and unsought-authority to said he would debate Agnew on Cotton, usually an adminis-protect U.S. industries and joh" plants. bar imports from countries or off television. 
which restrict their imports of 
The proposal to restrict im­
American goods. 

'Caper' urges reader to turn
ports was offered by Sen. Norris 
Cotton, R N.H., and opposed inBy a 65 to 30 vote, members a letter from Commerce Secre­approved an amendment to the tary Maurice H. Stans. Stans saidtax reform bill despite claims by 

on by mixing pages with poison
the administration did not wantthe Senate's free trade bloc that the authority of the amendmentit was irrelevant, inconsistent, 

carried of newsstan~ deal~rs and contain.
unconscionable, and capable of INDIANAPOLIS (UPI)~One distributors, Huber said.

destroying American jobs and hundred copies or more of a Huber said he has no report of
Presidential Authority

lowering the U.S standard potentially fatal magazine have a,nyone attempting the
Methyl alcohol is commonlybeen found in Indiana, an called wood alcohol and could experiment in Indiana, but "its On another front in the Sen­The Cotton proposal would official of the State Board of still a potentially dangerous
cause blindness and, "if not ate's long tax battle, Sen. Albert let the President set up quotas Health said yesterday. treated, definitely death, Huber situation". 
E. Gore, 0 Tenn., author of the against foreign imports if he said.

The magazine, "Caper," Illinois Public Health Directorproposal to raise the $600 in­found thy "disrupt the domestic invites readers to take a "trip" "The same thing happened in Franklin Yoder said he considers come tax personal exemption to industry" or cause "injury to in­
by dissolving any two of its 1964, Huber said ..Its the "this an emergency when the$800, challenged Vice President dustries, firms or workers in the pages in methyl alcohol and same article and same pictures printed word comes out withSpiro T. Agnew to debate the is­United States" and come from drinking the solution. but the girl has a different advice to take a poison."
sue with him. lie accused Agnew countries which restrict Amer­name."

of supporting "a rich man's tax ican exports through tariffs, Carl Huber, of the hazardous Yoder said there have been bill." taxes or other decices. The pro­The magazine, Huber said, 150,000 copies of the magazine
products section of the state health board, said "I00 copies

posal split both parties. invites readers to take the circulated in the United States Gore made the challenge in a solution and experience a "trip," and Canada "Consuming even
or more of the magazine have UPI interview in response to viewing the pictures. small quantities can reslut in
been found in Indianapolis and 

Agnew's criticism of the pro­While Scott and Mansfield deatt., " Yoder warned
South Bend .They have been Huber said the magazinewere
posal as irresponsible and infla­for it, their assistant lead­

removed from public display claims the pages are treated with ers, Republican Robert P. Grif­tionary. 
with the voluntary cooperation a chemical However, he said Carefully crumnle today s there is no such chemical as the issue of the Observer. Put it in one the magazine claims to your pipe and smoke it-ed.
Work-studygroup labors 2 months to evaluate anti-racist programs 
.riculum. racist approaches. Other organi­




One of the core areas of urban studies is "institutional racism or insti t u tiona! discrimination," Thomas Broden, Director of No­tre Dame's Urban Studies Pro­gram said yesterday. A work­study group on this topic has been at work for over two months and has chosen as its first area for research the Uni­versity itself, reflecting the belief that it would be inappropriate to examine other organizations be­fore having done so at home. 
The group has embarked upon analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of techniques to: 
I. Expand minority represen­tation in the student body 
2. 
Expand minority represen­tation on the faculty 

3. 
Expand minority represen­tation in the administration 

4. 
Expand multi-racial and multi-cultural dimensions of cur-


The group will seek to deter­zations in government, business, 

<._raftsmen in Optics
mine what techniques have been labor, and church, ·wm be stu­most effective in other institu­died later in the same way. 

FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES 
AND CONTACT LENSES -­
tions to achieve these objectives As with all Urban Studies 
and will keep abreast of, and Work Groups, all interested per­

Tf/ES/!ERI,AND BLDG. 
communicate with, the various sons are invited to participate in 

132 S. MICHIGAN ST. 
persons and organizations on the "Institutional Racism and Dis­

Central 2-1468 
campus addressing these matters. crimination Work Study Group. From this should come a greater Contact the Urban Studies Of­


TJ.c)(tiiJSe of'YaiOJt 3-. 
understanding of the strengths fice First Floor Memorial 

Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.-Chicago
and weaknesses of various anti-Library, Ex. 1112. 

POLITES SILOPS 
DECEMBER 11, 1969 

In honor of Sky the 20th and Clem the 21st, The Dragon Proclaims a little Polis Party For Polites and Silops after Storey-time, Carpenters extra; jungle optional. ..... .. General motif or overriding atmosphere: :::·:= 




introduces
...
The Ballroom Tonight. Cakes by Alice. :::
...
..
... 
.-------------------------~----------------------------------------------------~:~ 
::; ~nti-Acne
INTERESTED in Social Action Internships 


Makeup' 
with 

local Public and Private Agencies Finally! A makeup that really makes bad skin look good. Gorgeous liquid makeup, ~­
I •.. 

in 8 complexion shades. New 'Anti-Acne 
or 

Make-up' contains dermatologist-approved medication that helps dry up pimples and in other Work I Study Programs prevent new flare-ups. And it's oil-free,with special 'blotters' to hold back oily shine. for Academic Credit? The first pretty makeup that can make 
a skin specialist happy, too ! 
NEW NATURAL WONDER For Information Contact: ~ANTI-ACNE MAKEUP' 
DAVE YOUNG or MIKE McCAFERTY, Kennedy Institute Offit-e, Urban Studies Office, Available at: Basement Student Center 1st floor Memorial Library 


St. Mary's Bookstore 
283-8354 283-1112 
PAGE 4 


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
DONALD C. HOLliDAY, Publisher GAETANO DE SAPIO, Editor 
FOUNDED NCVEMBER 3. 1966 NOTRE DAME. INOI..t...~~o~o--.----4 
t==:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::o:::::::::' 

f Tim O'Me1l1a r 
jlll Jamie's fourth Christmas \l\\ 
M .. 
Jamie's shabby little book wasn't always so shabby. His father had given it to him when he was still in bed from the explosion ~hie' had crippled him. The little book wasn't shabby then. In _fact, 1t was quite handsome. On every page was a large colored p1cture. The :::ardbcard cover was the prettiest of all. 
He loved the shabby little book more than any of the few other things he owned. He loved it because it was about a sm~ll crippled boy like himself. Whenever Jamie would start to read h1s book, he would turn to the last page first. On the last page, the little crippled boy wore colorful clothing and smiled happily. All the other people in the picture smiled at him too. 
The last page was Jamie's·favorite because it made him feel good. After looking at the final page he would turn to the beginning and tell the story to himself as he turned the pages and looked at the pictures. It made no difference that the shabby little book was printed in a different language than Jamie's He was only four and couldn't read anyway. 
Jamie had made his father tell him the story again and again when the book was new. Jamie learned the story of the little crippled boy by heart. He took the book with him wherever he went. That was how it got to be so shabby. He read it to himself at least once every day. 
Jamie liked the cover too. It showed the little crippled boy riding on his father's shoulders with his crutch held high in the air. The crippled boy and his father were both very happy. Jamie wanted to ask his father for a ride like the boy on the cover but before he had a chance his father left to be a soldier. But Jamie was only four and didn't understand that. He just saw his mother cry and it made him cry too. 
Sometimes in the hot afternoons his mother would take a nap while Jamie was taking his. He' would crawl onto his mother's bed and play with her long black hair. And he would ask questions about his father. 
"Where did Daddy go?" he would say. His mother would answer, "He went to be a soldier." "What does a soldier do?" "A soldier fights other soldiers." "Why do they fight, Mommy?" "They fight because they are different. But they want the same 
thing. Remember yesterday when you and your friend Michael fought over the toy shovel. Remember you broke the shovel in the fight and I spanked you to make you stop?" 
"Well, what are Daddy and the other soldiers fighting for?" "Peace, Jamie." "A piece of what?" His mother laughed. "Just peace." "Isn't there enough peace for everyone? Why don't they share 
it?" "I don't know, Jamie." "Have they broken peace yet, Mommy, like we broke the 
shovel?" "Yes, I guess they have." "Well, Mommy, who will spank Daddy?" "You don't understand, Jamie," she would say. And it was true 
too. He didn't understand. His mother would try to explain about war to him. But he was only four and little boys don't understand · things like that. 
One day near Christmas Jamie hobbled to his mother while she was cooking dinner. He asked her if his father would be coming home for Christmas. Jamie's mother only cried. She picked him up and hugged him and cried. She scared Jamie and made him cry ·too. He never talked about his father again. That was the second time his father had made his mother cry. When his mother cried he felt sad and it made him mad at his father. But Jamie was only four and didn't understand about war and soldiers. 
On Christmas morning Jamie's mother gave him a new crutch. It was very clean and new and very much stronger than the old one. Jamie liked it very much. He gave his mother five flowers. His mother hugged him and cried again. She knew the only place the flowers grew was near where Jamie's explosion happened. She put four of the flowers in water and a white one in her long black hair. Jamie liked that very much too. 
That afternoon when Jamie was reading the ,last page of his shabby little book to his mother a soldier with a long gun came to their house. He yelled at them in another language and pointed his long gun at them. Jamie held his book and his mother picked him 
up. The soldier pushed them outside to a crowd of people. There were other soldiers there with guns. Jamie's mother held him tightly to her, crushing the book between them. Jamie· began to whimper just before the soldiers started shooting. Jamie's mother laid on top of Jamie, her long black hair with the flower in it covering his face. Jamie's shabby little book laid next to his head. Its pretty cover was crumpled. The shabby little book was still opened to the last page. The handsome picture of the little crippled boy was splattered with mud. None of the soldiers noticed the book, which was printed in their own language. 
Jamie's favorite line of all was the last line because the little crippled boy said it. He said, "God bless us every one." But now a dark drop of blood from Jamie's mouth blotted out the word 
"bless." 

You too can pick an army like the big kids in Washington From the same company that brought you that action packed thriller "Genocide." 
*DRAFTO is a registered trademark 
of NIXCORPS INC. 
~::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~: 
iii! John Knorr 1i~~ « ~l~l Divided unity llll ~ 
After three years at the University of Notre Dame, having been exposed to both sides of all arguments, I have come to the conclusion that a stalemate may always be inevitable. 
As a case in point, take the controversy over the Dow Chemical and CIA interviews of the previous two years. On the one hand you are confronted with those who feel that what Dow and the CIA stand for in connection with the war in Vietnam is wrong, and morally something should be done about it. Their answer is to pro­test. Protest by literature, by peaceful sit-ins, and as it has turned out, also by semi-violent protestations terminating in the suspension of some, and the possible expulSion of others. This is one side. On the other side you have those who feel that the CIA and Dow have the privilege to hold private interviews on campus, and that students who desire to have the right to attend. Their form of action is taken in the form of attempting to follow their own conscience, if that is what you may call it, and attend these interviews. All too often, their part is ultimately taken up by the police and the administra­tion. There is also one other side that is apparent here. This side is the noted apathetic side, those who may believe one side is correct and still do nothing, and those who do not even take the time and 'effort' to form a conviction, and who just stand around and wait for the outcome. This group has taken action in the form of mockery, making fun of those who do have a conviction or a conscience, and try to act on their convictions. 
There you have it, two sides, somehow diametrically opposed to each other, and a third side, who by its very nature is opposed to anything. Must this always be so? My answer is no. If those who feel that the war is wrong and therefore Dow, etc., should not be here would stop and think what they are doing maybe a start would be made. Also, if those who feel that the protestors are just looking for trouble would stop and try to realize why these things happen, something towards an understanding could be initiated. For those whose conscience dictates action, a question? You seem to be asking others to examine their consciences and to make a moral decision, and yet seemingly when they do so, you still block their efforts at realizing this decision. Why? Are you to be conscience for us all? You are to be respected for your decision, and the guts to stand by it, in the face of, granted, tough opposition. However, when your fellow human beings, as the phrase is so often used, make their own decision, shouldn't you accord them the same respect due to their action? Those who make the decision to seek jobs at Dow, etc., also have an obligation towards those who feel that this is morally wrong. This is the obligation of understanding that what these people have made as a decision is right to them, and as such should be respected. To them, their conscience dictates protest against anyone supporting what they feel is an unjust conflict. Grant them the same respect and rights of protest that you expect to receive from them. 
After all, as has been expressed many times, the basic University, for the most part, is the students, not the faculty or administration. If this is truly so, then problems which press upon the students (i.e. the basic University) should be settled by students, and settled together, through a common understanding and respect of the other. 
If this were to happen in the future, [ feel there would be two consequences of import. First, the third group, the apathetic, might no longer be Notre Dame's 'silent majority' and the problems that face us as students and citizens could be solved on two fronts, ideally through ideas opposed by people with conflicting ideas, who understand their opponent and respect his decisions. Second, an incident like the 'Notre Dame Ten' who did what their conscience dictated them to do would not be repeated, since they might grow to understand the other side of the story, just as the administration through the students opposed to them, might come to learn the full meaning of Christian understanding from students who though divided seek a solution to a common problem, united together. 
A simple solution, or so it seems. But maybe that's what is needed here, in place of the usual intricate and theoretical sayings and ideals of past generations. Maybe basic human simplicity is the answer. Who knows? 
--··-------_______________________:....:...:.::..__ 



The birthday party 
by Harold J. Taegel 
They were all there. Angela, Hank, Jack, Missy, Dan, and Penny. They were together, as they were once every week. to put out the school magazine. In the short span of three months they had become a close-knit group with a spirit and friendShip that conveyed to all around their joy in being together. 
This was their last issue before Christ­mas and it was also !lank's birthday. His first two years away at school weren't the happiest for him. The close friend~hips he had made in high school were now interrupted for long months at a time and strained because of the different courses and interests each was following in college. He had made ·some friends, but they never became intimate friends. Hank knew there were people around with the depth to their persons that he was des­perately looking for. He remained confi­
dent  that  he  would  find  them and  this  
year  he  found  not  one  true  friend,  hut  
five  very  real  people,  of  whom  he  was  

.Proud to say "they are my friends." And tonight they were celebrating his ::! 1st birthday. 
Angela, Missy and Penny brought out the cake covered with 21 lighted candles. Hank was told to make a wish and blow 


At present, we are trying to write a Christ mas column. We are not having any sort of stH.:cess with it. There are crum­pled pages lying all over our study carrel, and the only emotion that keeps coming through the keys of our typewriter is bit­terness and regret. We are sorry. We did not want a negative column for Christ­mas. We want to thank the faculty and administration of St. Mary's for what we got. 
We've just returned from a class meet­ing. There we heard the real true story of our now defunct Christmas banquet. There isn't going to be one, you see. As far as we know now, we're having a Christmas buffet. We are not having: a sit-down served dinner, a candlelight procession, the hanging of the holly wreath, the blessing of the Christmas tree, a Christmas service in the chapel, a Mass the next morning, a lot of greenery and elaborate Christmas decorations, a lot of tradition and sentiment. What we most emphatically are not having is a lot of caroling through the halls Sunday night. 
You know why we aren't having carol­ing? Because the faculty wouldn't ap­prove it! They wouldn't approve us get­ting up in the middle of the night to go singing through the halls of our own home! When have we ever told them what they could or could not do in the halls of their own home? Why should they care what we doat four o'clock Monday morn­ing'? Did they care last year when the jun­iors went caroling? The year before? Why should we get so lucky all of a sudden? 
We know that most of you, who are not somewhat tradition-minded (at least at Christ mas time) and fairly sentimental St. Mary's girls, could not care less about all of this. We surprise ourselves by realiz­ing that we could not care more. We try to tell a story, and find that this is all that comes out. 
We meant to tell you about Sunday 
night, when a pal of ours took us up to 
the dunes to hunt for Christmas trees. We meant to tell you about Monday morn­ing, when we went Christmas shopping with another friend, and came home drag­ging two fir trees to decorate our room. We meant to tell you about jostling hol­iday crowds in downtown South Bend, and the balloon-bending clown at Robertson's. We meant to mention Santa Claus. 
But somehow this is all we can write. And somehow all we can feel is a sort of tepid, frustrated wrath at all the "com­munity Christmas" that just won't hap­pen this year, won't happen any year. From now on, Christmas here will be whatever joy you can wrestle from the general pallid horror of exams. 
If you listen carefully, you can hear two girls about off-campus housing for SMC students in the room across the hall from our sound-proof carrel. We won't go into our room right now: there's a whole group there, debating the pros and cons of the new school year calendar. When they finish that discussion, they'll swing into a debate on the raise in tui­tion. Dinner, incidentally, was spent ar­guing about SMC's phasing out of its psychology department, much to the cha­grin of present psych majors. This is a hell of a way to spend the week before Christ­mas. Maybe we can all argue about that! 
We are lonesome for the Christmas we spent last year. It was beautiful; maybe we want it back. What we don't want is to have to fight for a happy Christn~as. We don't want to have to fight the facul­ty, or the administration, we don't want to have to fight our way through class meetings deciding how to make Christmas work in spite of circumstance. 
We and our· friends will have a nice Christmas, with trees and presents and songs and lights. And we'll try to keep it from becoming a patched-up, made-over copy of Christ mas last year, 
when everything went right. So Christmas is your own thing this year, folks. Make it merry. Good luck. 

out the candles. Hank couldn't remember the last time he had blown out candles on his birthday cake, but it must have been at least 13 years ago. He felt a little uncomfortaiJle during the ceremony -­being the object of attention in a show of affection was a completely foreign situa­tion. He wanted the formal ceremony to be over as quickly as possible so they could start informally drinking. Hank didn't like an atmosphere that was heavy for very long; he liked to see people laughing and joking and having a good time. 
So, in order to liven things up a little, he opened a can of beer and chugged it. Predictably, he got extremely dizzy. The tenseness was broken. Pictures were taken of the girls giving Hank his bir t hday kisses. Then, the rest of the guys got in on this action and were posing with each of the girls. 
The office was really in an uproar now, hut as much as he wanted to, Hank didn't feel a part of the festivities. His thoughts were getting the better of him, and he felt very contemplative. Beer always seemed to affect him in that way. Suddenly, he felt as if he was a stranger, not participat­ing but observing. He was in the center of the office and there was activity all around. But, he felt alone. 
Observing from outside, he saw Penny literally skipping about the office and flirting at every opportunity. She was a tomboy, but with a certain femininity that made her cuddly and lovable. She had kind of a special place in her heart for Dan, and he for her. Dan had that perpetual toothy grin that so character­ized him and made him approachable as a friend. 
Hank saw Jack flitting about the office, and, as usual, telling crazy puns and not doing much work. Jack's greatest contribution to the office was Missy, with whom he was going steady. She was a really good Iaugher, and she added some beauty, elegance and class to the office. 
Then Hank spied Angela. Her dark brown eyes were strangely sad; she seemed quite alone. Hank asked her if she wanted to talk, hut she answered that she just wanted to be by herself. A couple of times she made valiant efforts to forget momentarily what was troubling her and enjoy the party. But, each time she failed, and Hank saw her become continually sadder as the evening wore on. 
Hank was especially fond of Angela, perhaps too fond of her. He hated to see her sad, and her sadness became his sadness. He tried to think of some witty comment. or some soothing words that might make her forget her troubles. But she was too lost in herself and he was too lost in himself, at the moment, to make any communication possible. 
It was a very frustrating situation for Hank, because he didn't know how to handle other people's unhappiness. lie was afraid if he said anything he might make Angela angry at him. And such a situation would be unbearable for Hank. So, he remained silent. 
Angela had given so much pleasure and enjoyment to Hank, more than she was probably aware of. And now, Hank found himself not able to do the same for Angela. Oh, how he wished he had the power to ease Angela's mind of all her troubles. Oh, how he wished he could explain to Angela where he finds beauty, joy, and happiness in the world. Oh, how he wished he could, somehow, make her always happy and optimistic. 
But, sadly, Hank realized that he could do none of this for her. she would have to do it for herself. He knows it will he a tremendous struggle for her just as it still is for him. But, he also knows that if her effort matches her desire, she will find a beauty, joy and happiness that she never suspected existed. 

The Notre Dame Art Gallery is currently featuring a showing of 116 paintings of the German expressionists of the early 20th cen­tury. 
Father Anthony Lauck, director of the art gallery, spent over 
two  and  one-half  years  collecting  the  materials  for  this  show,  
which is scheduled to run  until February IS.  
Among  the  works  on  display  at  the  gallery  is  the  above  

Self Portrait by Max Beckmann, and Karl Schmidt-Rottluff's woodcut Russian Forest , pictured at the left. 


Thursday, December 11,1969

PAGE 6 
TilE OBfERfl!ll 
•


Summa campa1gn fails to relate to students 
continued from page 1 
better job of educating our alumni" concerning Notre Dame's goals and its place in American education; 2) the enthusiasm of the younger alumni who, though viewing the goals and request with a critical 
mind, have an increasing willingness to support an institution that can prove its worth. 
"This questioning attitude is good," noted Mr. Frick, "since it forces the institution to think through what it is doing and to question its goals." 
All this talk of millions, however, has a way of turning off many students, who may view the press releases as simply a re-statement of money-grubbing attitude of an increasingly materialistic society. This is perhaps the biggest failure of SUMMA: the program has failed to make known to the current students just what the but rather from the return on be awarded to those professors program means beyond dollar the investment of that of "special eminence." and cents progress reports. Since endowment. The annual return Mr. Frick commented on the future projects will require the on each of the 40 proposed faculty endowment saying th; cooperation of current students, $500,000 endowments would "the man standing at the front 
this failure could be an mean an annual salary of about of the class is the most important oversight. $20,000. The receipt of such an important factor in determining Interestingly enough, the bulk endowed position implies more the quality of an institution. The than just money, however; it will endowment aims at securing the
of SUMMA funds is not directed toward buildings or specific 
quality educator." The effect of this endowment will be felt most, 
'It not solely, in theology, ..,nilosophy, the humanities and social sciences, since the science and engineering departments received considerable assistance from the government. 
programs; the biggest investment of the program is one people. Twenty million dollars, about 
Letters to the Editor 
40% of the total, is earmarked for faculty development in the 
On non-violence 
institution of 40 endowed professorships. The thrust of this In response to Tim Treanor's endowment program is an effort article of Monday, Dec. 8th; to attract outstanding professors Dear Tim, to the University by offering ''Belief in non-violence is them an especially prestigious based on the assumption that and financially rewarding human nature in its essence is position. one and therefore unfailingly 
In financial terms, the value responds to the advances of of each endowed chair is that love ... the non-violent technique the salary does not come from does not depend for its success the University's working budget, on the good will of dictators... " 
(Gandhi) 

I enjoyed your article very much and would like to take this
SENIORS! ! 
opportunity to talk with you for
Going home to New Jersey for Christmas? 
a second about what is meant by
Why not find out about a career in New 
the "primacy of human life". It Jersev State Government? 
means on one level that one may not kill other people in order to
Call: 
protect them; it means that evil is reversible and that freedom of
State House, Trenton, N.J.-609-292-4197 
the oppressed means little with­
517 Market St., Camden, N.J. -609-966-3556 
out the freedom of the oppress­
80 Mulberry St., Rm. 104, Newark, N.J. 
or; it means that there is nothing201-648-3718 
as important as my own life and yet nothing so much mine toOpenings exist in Accounting, Engineering, Personnel, give up for others if the need be.
Public Health, Social Work and numerous other pro­Individual spiritual autonomyfessional fields. 
is quite a different thing from 

riday Dec. 12 8:00 with representatives ot more than 

~----------------~~~ 
College Seniors and Grads: Discuss 
JOBS/SALARIES 
Notre Dame 
Glee Club 




INCENTIVE PAY 
Christmas Concert


ADVANCEMENT 
ASHINGTON HA

40 MAJOR FIRMS 

rican Air Filter Co. • American Standard • Ashland Oil & Refining Co. • 
ADMISSION FREE

J. Bacon & Sons • Brown-Forman Distillers Corp. • Brown & Williamson Tobacw Corp. • Celanese Coatings Co. • Citizens Fidelity Bank & Trust Co. • Common­
individual political or social free­dom; the former is non-ct'lntin­gent, the latter, a blessing of course. You are certainly correct when you :>int out that "In 
. totalitarian countries nonvio-· lence ... (is) ... a joke." I must ask to consider for whom it is a joke: the men of violence, men who at all times and places laugh at love as weakness, and whom are trapped in their own hate. But Tim, because some are blind does that mean we must all be; or must we take it as our respon­sibility to help those that cannot see. Non-violence is not a means for protecting nations; it is a way of sharing love. 
Because others laugh at your worth, Tim, you do not have to do the same. I do not think that I am naive regarding the evil in the world, although of course I may be, when I claim that there is something quite wrong in the contrivance of situations of na­tional annihilation or maternal rapine as warriors for personal barbarism and hate. 
Neither do I overestimate my ability to convert the masses. I only wish to speak to your letter and wish you peace. 
Brian Wall 101 Sorin 
Agnews 

Editor: In response to the antics of 
V.P. Agnew, I recently came upon the following quote from a past leader whose courage un­fortunately cannot be matched by the officials of the Nixon Ad­·ministration. 
"We are not afraid to entrust the American people with un­pleasant facts, foreign ideas, alien philosophies and competitive val­ues. 
a nation that is afraid to let i. _.Jeople judge the truth and falsehood in an open market is a nation that is afraid of its peo­
pie." (John F. Kennedy) Jim Hoban 213 Lyons 
...in corpore sana 

Editor: 
A few quick observations on Richard Mecke1's "ND Man" let­ter. 
Mr. Meckel seems to display an aversion toward those who are physically endowed and uti­lize those gifts in the pursuit of organized athletics. 
Also, there's the implication that those that disagree with the idealistically committed, are somehow being anti-intellectual. 
There's a tendency to politi­calize every university function in the name of freedom. I con­tend this is an abuse of that freedom, and in the manner of the Latin American 'academy.' 
Finally, the call from academe is always "end the war." But I must add "with peace and free­dom." 
Bob Neiman 
428 East 13 
Erie, Pa. 16503 

Courier-Journal, Times, WHAS, Standard Gravure Extendicare, Inc. • First National Bank • Ford Motor Co. • General Electric Co. • International Harvester Co. • Jefferson Standard Life Ins. Co. • Kentucky Blue Cross & Blue Shield • Kentucky Department of Economic Security • The Kroger Co. • Liberty National Bank & Trust Co. • Louisville Area Council of Churches • Louisville Board of Realtors • Louisville Public Schools • P. R. Mallory & Co., Inc. • Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. • National Cash Register Co. • Naval Ordnance Station • Olin Mathieson Chemical Corp. • J. C. Penney Co. 
• Philip Morris, Inc. • Rohm and Haas Co. • Sears, Roebuck & Co. • South Central Bell Telephone Co. • Standard Oil Co. of Ky., Inc., • The Travelers Ins. Co. • Tube Turns, Division of Chemetron Corporation • Stewart Dry Goods Co. 
wealth Life Ins. Co. • • 
Kentuckiana 
CAREERS 



EXPO
~ 
I TERVIEWS 


Sponsored louisville Area Chamber of Commerce 
Monday and Tuesday-December 29,30-9 A.M.-4 P.M. 
University of louisville Campus 
University Center Building 
NO CHARGES 
Contact your College Placement Office, or write for FREE Employer Profiles and Fact Sheets CHAMBER OF COMMERCE, Louisville, Kentucky 40202 
,,

TIVOLI ,, 
ART

CINEMA THEATRE 

208 N. MAIN-MISHAWAKA 
Entertainment Geared To Please Mature Audience 
en Fri. -Sat. 
NOTRE DAM£ A V£. APARTMENTS 
NOW 
Reserving for second semester and fall of 1970 
Groups of Four 
phone: 234 -6647 
-------~------------------------------­

PAGE 7 


Bender addresses moral 1SSUeS 1n sympos1um 

Should people who know that their offspring are likely to be deformed adopt children rather than have their own? If the day comes when biologists can "correct" the genes, what traits should be altered? 
These are questions that the 
next generations will have to Future," he explained that answer, Dr. Harvey A. Bender, medical technology has professor of biology at the outstripped the biological, University of Notre Dame, told a permitting people with genetic symposium on "The Future defects to lead normal lives. For Man" at Wheaton College example, Bender noted that Thursday (Dec. II). diabetics, who would have died in childhood 50 years ago, can now raise families, enjoy
Speaking on "Man's Genetic 
athletics, and die of old age. 
"This is a wonderful thing," he said, "but it does mean that the
Architecture offers 
genes for diabetes will increase in future populations."

Mediterranean trip 
The Department of Architect­ure will be giving a course for credit on Greek, Roman, Early Christian, Byzantine, Romanes­que and Gothic architecture around the shores of the Med­iterranean. 
Combining on-ship illustrated lectures with on-shore study of architectural monuments, the cruise course will visit the fol­lowing between June 30 and 
August 4: Italy, Corfu, Crete, Egypt, Rhodes, Greece, Yugo­slavia, Turkey, Mallorca, North Africa, Malta, Sicily, as well as Switzerland, and Portugal, France and England. 
The cruise course is open to 
all students, and is expecially ex­
pected to appeal to those stu­dents who will be finishing or beginning the Department's Rome Program. The cruise course will be led by Assistant Professor J. Daniel Selig of the Department, who will instruct on art history at special mu­seums to be visited as well as on aspects of architectural photo­graphy. Enrolled strdunts may, in addition, audit one of the oth­er courses bein!l given aboard, which include Music (Indiana University), History of Ancient Civilization (Western Michigan University) and Photography (Rochester Institute of Tech­
nology.) 
Nader charges 
FAA laxity 
WASHINGTON (UPI) 
Safety crusader Ralph Nader called Wednesday for a congres­sional investigation of the Fed­eral Aviation Administration, saying it had failed to see that airliners are properly inspected and maintained. 
Nader said the FAA had al­
lowed airline maintenance to 
deteriorate to a point where it 
was jeopardizing both airline 
passangers and people on the 
ground. 
Nader told a news conference 
the FAA simply "abdicated" its 
inspection authority to the air­
lines at a time when many of the 
carriers "have seriously under­
manned and undertrained main­
tenance and inspection 
crews." lie did not specifically 
list any unreported incidents 
where faulty maintenance might 
have led to an airliner accident, 
however. 
In reply, the FAA said there 
"is no evidence of maintenance 
deterioration" in the nation's 
airline fleet. On the contrary, a 
spokesman said, FAA statistics 
show a decreasing percent age of 
accidents relating to mainte­
nance problems. 
1 The biological technology to cope with the increase ofBecause the program is com­defective genes might includebined wish other universities, an the ability to go into theespecially attractive all-inclusive chromosomes and correct the cost is offered, $1098 (plus $29 faulty material, Bender said, buttax) from New York. For those this technique will certainly raise wishing to join the program in more questions than it answers.
Europe, the all-inclusive cost is "While we're changing the geneonly $823 (plus $29 tax). For for diabetes, why not alter thefurther information, contact the material for a low intelligence orSecretary, Department of Arch­a bad dispostion?" he asked. 
itecture, Ext. 6137. 
Bender stressed that the questions raised by the genetic revolution are not only for scientists to solve, but for moralists, psychologists, sociologists, and a well-informed 
public. "I am merely advocating talung the conscious responsibility for what we already do thoughtlessly-alter our future evolution and our future genetic makeup," he 
concluded. 
The symposium, held December I I and I 2, also featured Dr. Duane Gish, associate research biochemist at Up john Ph arm ace utica I Company; Dr. David Busby, psychiatrist and professor at Trinity Evangelical Divinity School, and Dr. Marvin Mayers, chairman of the department of sociology and anthropology at Wheaton. 
TWAputa price onyourhead tha!evenyour parents m1ghtagreeto pay. 
We're out to get you home for the You still get all the great food and Holidays. Fast. TWA features like movies and stereo Which is something that your parents music~ But it won't cost you like it does will probably enjoy too. everyone else. 
Something else they'll enjoy is our fares And TWA flies to nearly all the major for students. (Students, that is, who are · cities in the U.S., plus we have a special between the ages of 12and 21 and who have youth fare to Hawaii. TWA's Youth Card.) On a standby basis, With all that going for you, there's you'll get 40% off regular coach fares. only one excuse for not going home for 
Which doesn't mean you'll be flying the holidays. second class or Getting your hair cut. 

The opinions in the editorials, news analyses and columns of The Observer are soley those of the authors and editors of The Observer and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administrations, faculty or students. 
Support Your Lo('a) Fieldhouse 
Fri. -A Christmas Happening 10:01-11:11 p.m. Sat. -Christmas Cannabis Dance 8-12 midnight First Friday, Brand X: Greater North Bay 
Alchemical Co. -li t show 


DYING SALE 
T. L. IS GOING FAST 
PAGE 8 711£ OBSERVER. Thursday, Decmeber 11,1969 
~~~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------­



Who needs Mount? We have Austin (42) Carr 

There were a few things proved last night at the Convo. First of all, Jerry Zielinski is not another Rick Mount. Second, Austin Carr takes a back seat to no one when talking about the outstanding guards in the coun­try. Last off, Notre Dame was easily 19 points better than a reportedly tough Northern Illi­nois ball club as the 111-92 score might suggest. 
Austin Carr set an Athletic and Convocation Center scoring record as he hit 14of 24 from the field and 14 of 18 from the charity stripe for 42 pts. This was only 5 pts. short of the Notre Dame record held by Lar­ry Sheffield. This performance by the Irish captain pulls his season average up to 37.2 
ND took the lead from the 
outset and they were never head­
ed. The Irish matching zone de­fense had the Huskies complete­ly befuddled and hustling Mike O'Connell stole a number of NIU passes to help set up Carr on fast breaks. Sid Catlett and J. Collis Jones played mayhem on the boards throughout the first half to keep the Irish at a com­fortable margin. Another bright spot was the continued excellent play from John Pleick. The tow­ering Californian rebounded well 
(7) 
and shot nearly perfect (7 of 

9) 
to aid in the rout. Sid and Collis shared the rebounding lead with Austin at 12 apiece. 


The Huskies brought a fair contingent of students to cheer 
their hero Zielinski but whent Austin hit with 4:20 left in the first half to put ND ahead by 18 their only remaining chant was Texas, Texas! 
Halftime brought on the hi­light of the evening as Northern presented 30 lovely pom-pom 
JIM MURRAY 
Bo, Welcome to Pasadena 
© 1969, Los Angeles Times 


All right, Miss Higginbotham, it's that time of the year again. Take a letter to What's-His-Name, that coach at Michigan. The one who's ~ot more letters in his name than the Hawaiian alphabet. Just slug it., "Dear Bo." All right? 
"Dear Bo, 
"We're glad you're coming to the Rose Bowl, even though the aggregate score of the West Coast against Michigan is, Michigan, 146, Pacific Coast", 13. SC is practicing mainly goal -line stands and kickoff returns. 
"Since this is your first trip to the Rose Bowl, the first thing you have to understand is, you won't need a food-taster or have to put a 24-hour guard on your quarterback. At least, I don't THINK you will. After all, I don't know your quarterback. 
"Your former mentor, Woody Hayes, always comes out here in a bubble-top car, and hides his team in a monastery. They practice in the dark, and give only their name, rank. and serial number of the press. One year, he objected to the band scuffing up the field at halftime, and implied his opponent that day would be in tough against Massillon High. Last year, he showed up at the Rose Queen luncheon without any players and demanded he be put on the program :1t once as he couldn't stay to eat. This necessitated shifting the schedules of several people who had nothing as important to do as practice hitch passes. People like the Chief Justice of the United States, the governors of California and Ohio, and some people working on a cure for polio. 
"You don't have to act like that, Bo. There'll be I00,000 people 
in the Rose Bowl. Pcobably 20,000 will be rooting for Michigan, 
20,000 will be rooting for SC, and 60,000 will be looking around for 
Bob Hope. A lot of 'em won't know who's playing. 
'~If YO'l can score two touchdowns, Bo, the worst you can get is a 
tie. SC's got a quarterback who couldn't hit an elephant with a 
bucket of birdshot for the first 58 minutes of a game. The last two 
minutes, you tell 'em to hit a receiver in the eye and he says, 'Which 
eye?' 
"He comes from a little suburb east of L.A. called Harrisburg, Pa. 
That should tell you something right there. There are plenty of good 
football players that are only a local call out here, and the NCAA 
gets real curious when you start heisting the coal"field. Incidentally, 
I would play this young man VERY loose, Bo. ENCOURAGE him 
to throw that football, if you know what I mean. He's got a much 
better sense of direction RUNNING with the ball. He's so fast, he 
could throw it, then run out and catch it anyway. 
"It's when YOU hav~ the ball that you've got troubles, Bo. Going 
through that SC line is like swimming through shark waters with a 
nosebleed. If you're going to try to run on them, I hope the team 
trainer has morphine. Their names are AI Cowlings, Willard Scott, 
Tody Smith, Jimmy Gunn, and Charlie Weaver. They tell me, even 
on the practice field, the coach needs a whip and a chair. In summer, 
they pose for pictures at Yellowstone Park. They get paid off in 
hunting. They wore out so many tackling dummies this year the 
sawdust is hip deep at Bovard Field. 
"They got a kid named Sandry Durko who has fallen on so many 
footballs he's got 'Spalding' tattooed on his stomach. He could 
intercept a bullet. 
"Clarence Davis scored nine touchdowns, and rolled up I,300 
yards in 270 plays, which is more than the Heisman Trophy winner 
did in almost 300 plays. 
"I think you'll find they could beat Massillon High, all right, coach. If you beat 'em, I don't think you'll have to stammer trying to think of something good to say about them. But let them at least smell the flowers and see the ocean-when you bring your gang out and I promise faithfully to try to get your name right to the nearest vowel or consonant. Let's see, it IS Schopenhauer, isn't it?" 
girls and the southwest corner of the arena went berserk. 
The second half was more of the same as Carr, Jones, Pleick and company continued to pour in the points and the Irish lead balooned to 24 pts. The Huskies didn't take kindly to such treat­ment and tempers began to flair. The cool head and hot hand of Carr prevailed, however, and the game finished without any fisti­cuffs. 
Although Zielinski was the most highly touted of the Husk­ies, it was their captain Nate Mason and unheralded Tom McKiernan who were most im­pressive. Mason showed tre­mendous ball handling ability and super quickness. While McKiernan was high point man for the Huskies with 19. Jay Ziznewski and the boys did a fine job of finishing for coach Johnny Dee as they played NIU nearly even. They took the Irish over the century mark for the first time this season. 
The only bleak point for the 
Irish was the high number of 
turnovers ( 19). This statistic will 
prove to be an important one 
and the Irish will have to tighten 
up if they hope to challenge for 
the Top Ten. But when you're 
undefeated you can't complain 
tqo much. 

NORTH. ILLINOIS FG Zielinski 4-12 lvey 5-17 Taylor 5-6 Turner 3-12 
Russell 1-4 Mason 1-8 Naves 7-14 McKiernan 8-13, 
Kontos 1-3 Benson 0-0 Rohlman 2-5 Janus 0-0 
Irish forward Jim Hinga saw plenty of action "both ways" in last night's 111-92 victory over Northern Illinois. 
FT  Rbds  Pts.  NOTRE DAME  FG  FT  Rbds  Pts.  
3-4  4  11  Catlett  3-14  1-3  12  7  
2-3  6  12  Jones  7-16  5-7  12  19  
1-2  3  11  Pleick  7-9  0-1  7  14  
1-2  19  7  O'Connell  1-5  3-3  2  5  
0-1  3  2  Carr  14-24  14-18  12  42  
5-8  2  7  Hinga  1-6  5-6  5  7  
3-3  2  17  Meehan  1-1  0-1  1  2  
3-4  4  19  Gallagher  2-2  3-3  0  7  
0-1  1  2  Sinnott  1-2  2-2  2  4  
0-0  0  0  Gemmell  1-1  0-0  0  2  
0-1  0  4  Ziznewski  1-3  0-2  4  2  
0-0  0  0  TOTALS  39-83  33-46  66  111  

TOTALS 37-94 18-29 59 92 
E.C. Roosevelt is first in UPI poll 
INDIANAPOLIS (UPI) -The UPI coaches board Wednesday tabbed tall and talented East Cmcago Roosevelt as Indiana's No. I high school basketball power-but only by little more than a whisker over newcomer Seymour. 
The Rough Riders, peren­nially better known as a football power in Hoosier schoolboy athletics, polled I 0 of 19 first place votes from the panel of experts in the balloting for games through last Saturday for 147 points-a four vote margin over Seymour. 
Both won their first four games through last weekend, but while East Chicago also was among the top teams the past two years, this was the first time in the board's history that Sey­mour was rated so prominently. 
The Owls of coach Barney 
Scott drew the most votes from 
the board-18, although not the 
most points. Their total included 
only four first place nods. 
Third, with I09 points, was 
late starting Evansville North, 
winner of its first two games, 
followed by Indianapolis At­
tucks and Marion, in that order. 
Attucks Fourth 
Attucks, winner from three 
intersectional rivals in its first 
three starts of the new season, 
received one first place vote for 
96 points and Marion, going into 
this week with a five game win­
ning streak, totaled 89, including 
two firsts. 

The two other first place 
votes went to sixth place Mich­
igan City and Southport, the No. 
9 quintet. 
The panel of experts tabbed no less than 35 teams as among the cream of the crop. Indiana­polis Tech was seventh, Muncie Central eighth, and tough little Silver Creek IOth The latter has 
won its first six games, mostly by lopsided margins. 
Four "Big I0" members also made the final roll call before the last state tourney. Marion was second, Attucks fourth, East Chicago sixth and Michigan City ninth. Four others, including state champ Indianapolis Wash­ington, the No. I powerhouse a year ago, were missing entirely. The Continentals dropped two of their first three games of the new season. 

Also missing were Vincennes, which lost its first three starts; Gary Tolleston, now a Junior high school, and Richmond. 
Marion, Vincennes and Toiles­ton also were state tourney final­ists last March. 
The Breakdown The breakdown, with first places and total points: I. E.C. Rossevelt 10, 147. 2. Seymour 4, 143. 3. Evansville North I 09. 4. Indianapolis Attucks l, 96. 5. Marion 2, 89. 
6. Michigan City I ,66. 7. Gary Roosevelt 52. 8. Muncie Central 
48. 9. Southport I, 38. I 0. Sil­ver Creek 30. 

Purdue loses Mount 
LAFAYETTE, Ind. (UPI) ­All-America Rick Mount will be lost to the Purdue basketball Boilermakers for possibly two weeks or longer with an injured right knee sustained Tuesday night in a I00-64 victory over Butler. 
Mount, who had injured the knee a month ago in practice, sustained a tendon injury in the first half of the Butler game. 
Purdue coaches were hopeful Mount would be ready for the start of the Big Ten campaign Jan. 3 at Iowa, if not sooner. Mount is the defending Big Ten scoring champion. 

The Boilermakers, ranked 15th nationally and 2-1 for the season so far, are host Thursday to Idaho State. Other Boilermaker foes prior to the Big Ten opener include Dartmouth, Kent State and Evansville, in addition to action in the New York Holiday Festival Dec. 27-30. 








