
Volume IV, No.3 Serving the Notre Dame and Sa{nt M_ary 's College ('ommuni~J' WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17,1969 
Anti-racism most important 
SBP McKenna explains summer projects 
by Martin Graham with a revtston in the judicial 
code, a student bill of rights and 
Student Body President Phil responsibilities, and an analysis McKenna announced yesterday of academic freedom. that his cabinet has been McKenna stated that the next working on eight projects which major project concerns student they will present to the student development. The most organizations this year. These important point which will organizations will consist be considered under student 
basically of the Student Life development is what prompts a Co11ncil, the Student Senate and student to move off-campus and the Academic Council. an attempt to solve the The eight point program discriminatory problems which 
worked on by McKenna's cabinet, covers a wide range of rna tters concerning the student body. McKenna stated that none of these eight points holds any special priority. He commented that he would just like to see all of them worked on throughout the year. 
McKenna said, "I feel that one of the most important projects which my cabinet has been dealing with concerns anti-racism at Notre Dame." 
The points he considers most 

important under this project are 
SBP Phil McKenna 
the internal education of both an off-campus student faces.
the student government 
Many of these students must livepersonnel and the student body on grounds which arc not keptand also the investigation of the up by the landlords.
racist strudure of Notre Dame. 
Another point under this
Another project is the 
project is the on-campus studentconsiucration of student rights. 
development plan. This plan wasTwo of the points which fall esta blishcd in order to promoteunder this t:onccrn a monetary 
interaction bet ween students
return to the occupants of Grace who arc members of the samellall who have been forced to 
hall. It consists of small
live elsewhere and the 
discussion groups in every hall.
publication of the magazine, Minority students is another 
Juggln, which the University is consideration under student 
against. development. This will 
McKenna said, ''The encompass primarily black and 
University has a penalty clause international students who 
with the contradors who are attend this University and tic in 
building (;race llall. For every with the anti-racism project. 
work day over the original time McKcnna said that the 
of completion, the contractor financial stability of the student 
must pay the University a fine." government is another important 
lie feels that sint:c the University project which concerns every 
is getting <.1 monetary return, the member of the student body. At 
evicted students should also be the end of last year, the debt of 
allotted a return. the student government to the 
McKcnrw would not make an lJ n i ve rsi t y reached bet ween 
official comment on what he has $45,000 and $50,000. McKenna 
planned to do about the stated that every year the 
publication of the J ugglcr. He 
student government allotcd stated that he will leave the 
$96,000 in activities fees and it course of action open to its is from the thrifty use of this editors. 
money that he hopes to pay off The next three projects deal 
most of this debt by the end of 
Juggler axed by ND; decision to be fought 
edition." The other will requestby Mike Mooney the Student Life Council to 
Student Body President Phil assure the editors of the McKenna will ask the Student magazine that the magazine Life Council to insure continued would be published this year. publication of the Juggler, the The grounds for McKenna's University's literary magazine. first motion come from an 
The University did not alleged order issued by Fr. allocate funds for the Juggler in McCarragher to the staff of the its 1969-70 budget and, in 
Juggler last year. The effect, stopped publishing the Vice-President allegedly 
magazine. demanded that a poem Juggler editor Michael Patrick 
containing a certain four-letter O'Connor stated yesterday word by omitted from the 
afternoon that McKenna will magazine or he would suspend introduce two motions regarding 
publication. The offending poemthe publication before the SLC' 
was subsequently struck and next Monday. Ono will be a 
another substituted. "motion of censure against Fr. 
If the order to censure the McC'arraghcr (Revcrand Charles poem was given, it would be in 
I. McCarraghcr, Vice-President apparent violation of the student 
for Student Affairs) for prior manuel's policy on student censureship of last year's 
(continued on page 2) 

the year. major program concerns the the Academic Council. "It all 
In order to work out a academic affairs of the student depends," he said, "on how program which will save a large body. "Student participation in many other considerations these part of the $96,000 for the debt, anything concerning them," organizations will have." McKenna plans on having an McKenna said, "is most McKenna stated that he does audit company come in and important." The major points in plan on presenting the Student make suggestions on how to cut this program primarily concern Bill of Rights and down on student government ROTC, black studies, and a Responsibilities and also the spending. As of now, McKenna possible pass-fail system. pIan for the Judicial Code sees that a cutdown in Grand McKenna is not yet sure Revision to the Student Life Prix and Homecoming activities which of these projects will be Council, which first meets on is most likely. presented to the Student Life September 22. 
McKenna stated that the last Council, the Student Senate, and 
(continued on page 2) 


NSA grants $50,000 to NABS 
out-of-order when he called for B I a ck students further 
by Jim Holsinger an end to nominations and demanded that minority groups suggested the be given the right

Notre Dame's delegation to that delegation to direct any 
return to the important issues and aII programs that are
the National Student 

confronting the NSA. directly related to minority
Association congress this The following morning problems.

summer voted unanimously to Afro-American students started In a statement issued by thegrant $50,000 in previously to the newly their own discussions and well-organized black delegations, mishandled funds founded NABS. They were they revealed that 'whiteformed National Association of joined by sympathetic white students have alwaysBlack Students. 

delegations who moved to end administered the programs andThe vote came in the last day the parliamentary procedure funds have been misdirected.'
of the NSA congress held August which had previously stifled free The new NABS will now handle19-29 at the University of Texas discussion. After a general return the relief programs previouslyat El Paso. 

to the issues in a more relaxed administered by the NSA.
The congress, attended by atmosphere, the final day ended A spokesman for NABS said,1300 student leaders from across with the vote to support NABS. 'We hope that white studentsthe nation, came to life after The funds granted to NABS will begin to deal with the

violent demonstrations by 

were collected since 1961 by the problems that affect them so weAfro-American student leaders Fast for Freedom, an can begin to develop a realdisrupted a plenary meeting 
originally set elect organization of college students student union.'
to new who give up their Thanksgiving Phil McKenna, Notre Dame

officers to the NSA. The black students began meal each year on the agreement 
student body president who attended the convention as aripping out microphones and that the money saved by member of the Notre Dametelephones in the University of university dining halls on the delegation, commented, 'TheTexas auditorium when a white meals will be used for relief black students were more seriousstudent was allowed to continue projects in the Southern states. 
than the white students. Theyfor nearly five minutes in a The N SA misappropriated did a lot of hard work. They
comical impersonation of $50,000 from this project and 
know where they're going.'
Richard Nixon. used the money to pay NSA Other members of the Notre
One black leader has salaries and debts that have previously been ruled accumulated in that time. (cl)tltinued on page 2) 

A new $250,000 linear and delicacy of their television waves. accelerator (LINAC') will aid experiments. researchers at Notre Dame study The 20 foot 'long LINAC The pnlscs of electrons may the effects of radiation on consists of two portions an be as short as a billionth of a chemical reactions and living e,ectron gun similar to a second in length, anu may organisms. television pict urc tube, and a contain sub-pulses almost 
Chemists, physicists, and microwave generator. The one-hundreth that length. biologists at the Radiation electrons arc accelerated through Radiation Laboratory scientists Laboratory, where the a vacuum by bunching them in hope to usc those even shorter 
accelerator has been installed, the crests of the waves, about pulses in their high velocity hope it will increase the range the same frequency as radio or work. 
PAGE 2 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1969 
.--------.----________________ 7HE__ O&WliiU.___________________ 
OP£N! 

Results of eight projects to be presented 

One Dav Service NO EXTRA CHARGE Cleaning and Shirts 
410 N. Michigan Street Next to McDonald's 

We Call it (' ('Li·vability'' 
Our idea is to serve you with lunches and dinners you can live with day after day. Fine steaks properly broiled and at prices you can live with, too. And with pleasant surroundings, comfort· able booths and chairs, a little background music and a smile from the folks who serve you. And a choice of dinners to match your taste: 
1. 
Sirloin ....................... $1.59 

2. 
Rib Eye ....................... l.29 

3. 
Chopped Sirloin .......... 1.09 


WE'RE BACK!! 
FREE UNIVERSITY 
NEEDS

What's so ~ecial about 

COURSES AND LEADERS 
Your Name and Course Resume to:
Beechwood Ageing? 
Box 66 SMC or Rick Libowitz c/o ND Student Gov't. We must be bragging too much about let Budweiser ferment a second time. Beechwood Ageing. (Most brewers quit after one fermen­Because we're starting to get some tation. We don't.) flak about it. Like, "Beechwood, These beechwood strips offer extra Beechwood ... big deal." And "If surface area for tiny yeast particles 
NOTICE 
Beechwood Ageing is so hot, to cling to, helping clarify why don't you tell every­
the beer. And since these body what it is?" 
strips are also porous, they So we will. 
help absorb beer's natural First, it isn't big wooden "edge," giving Budweiser 
casks that we age Budweiser its finished taste. Or in other The office of Teacher Preparation is now in. 
words, "a taste, a smooth­located in Room Ill0 East in the Memorial But it is a layer of thin ness and a drinkability you Library. wood strips from the beech 
will find in no other beer at tree (what else?) laid down any price." 
in a dense lattice on the Ah yes, drinkability. That's bottom of our glass-lined 
what's so special about 

Eugene A. Campanaleand stainless steel lagering Beechwood Ageing. 
Associate Directortanks. This is where we But you know that. 
Office of Teacher Preparation 
283-8562 

Budweiser.is the King ofBeers® 
The Observer is published Subscriptions may be purchased
(But you know that.) 
daily during the college semester for $8 from the Observer, Box 11, except vacations by the students Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second of the University of Notre Dame Class postage paid, Notre Dame, 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS • NEWARK • LOS ANGELES • TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS and St. Mary's College. Ind., 46556 . 
4. 
N.Y. Strip .................. .1.89 

5. 
Ham Steak .................. 1.19 

6. 
Fish Fillet ......................99 

7. 
~lb. Hamburger Platter with French Fries..79 



STEAK HOUSE 
1516 N. Ironwood Just N. ofEdison 

(continued from page 1) 
According to McKenna, plans it by the Senate. Therefore it have not been set until the week could be an attempt to either have also been initiated in order will be impossible for me to sit of October 6. manipulate or help the students. 

to make Student Senate a mo.e 
in on its first meeting." This McKenna sees both pros and We want to decide for ourselves serious body than it was last meeting has been set for October cons for the whole idea of this whether we should actually sit in year in order for it to regain 3, but Stt,dcnt Senate elections University Forum. He said. "It on the forum or not."
prominence in the eyes of the . entire University. Over the last couple of weeks, the four stay senators have drawn up a new 
Black protest focus of convention 
constitution for the Senate. This year, every member of (continued from page 1) we can give more advice than we of the Notre Dame delegation. 
the Senate will belong to one of Dame delegation were Student can take. The discussions on More productive discussions four committees: the Academic Body Vice-President Fred legal aid and educational reform in the area of civil rights and Affairs, the Student Affairs, the Dedrick, Bill Locke, academic arc more appropriate for smaller anti-racism followed the Human Affairs, and the Union affairs commissioner, and Art schools. We already have most of re-organization of the meeting and Finances committees. McFarland, chairman of the these programs.' by black students. The national Unlike last year, attendance at Afro-American Society. More delegates attended the supervisory board suggested a these meeting will be Richard Rossie, last year's convention than were originally list of priorities for the coming mandatory. In order to ensure SBP, attended as a member of expected. Severe housing year. that haphazard bills are not the NSA National Supervisory problems arose when El Paso Commenting on the value of presented to the Senate for Board, and NSA Coordinator hotels became overcrowded with the congress as a whole, voting, every bill must first be Mike Shaughnessy sat on the delegates attending the NSA McKenna said, 'I think it is only presented to a committee for a congress steering committee. congress. Some Notre Dame natural that white people trust thorough research. They attended ten days of delegates were forced to sleep on black people, and anyone who 
McKenna stated that one of workshops and study sessions in floors. came out of there realizes that. the most important points which several areas of student A series of lectures was held White students should work as the Senate will consider this year government. Legal aid, student on war as a way of life. The hard as the black students did. 
is whether to have student power, and educational reform program served to indoctrinate We shouldn't worry about representatives sit in on Father were discussed by the record smaller schools against ROTC. NABS, we should worry about Hesburgh's proposed University These discussions were reported ourselves as humans, and usc
number of delegates.Forum. McKenna said, "I won't McKenna said, 'In these areas as 'not outstanding' by members rationality rather than control.' sit in on it until I'm mandated to 
Juggler axed; fights for life THE KING IS TAPPED 
(continued from page 1) The University's projected 
publications. That policy reads budget deficit, greater than last 
in part: "Student publications year's losses, has forced the
WEDNESDAY NIGHT 

administration to make cuts, and advance approval of copy, and the literary magazine got the their editors and managers axe. 
should be free of censorship and 
$1.00 I pitcher 

should be free to develop their "We print about 800 copies, own editorial policies and news some we didn't sell at all," he 


coverage." added. "I would assume that there's
McKenna views Fr. McCarragher's alleged censorship more behind it than finances," action as "ell ega!." 
Al flT~fR 

disagreed editor O'Connor.
PIZZA HlJ'f 

"The censorship is another He hinted that Fr. example of the University's McCarragher had never held the
NUMBER I NUNd_Hq 2 

paternalism that must and will Juggler in particularly highAcross The Just 1 Mile East 
be exterminated," said the SBP. regard. O'Connor viewed last River From IU nf Notre Dame Out Edison 
Fr. McCarragher listed year's censorship and this year's 
288-6060 233-3827 

financial reasons as the chief elimination from the budget as cause of the Juggler's demise. signs of that opinion. 

•
Turnbull considers academic reform ma1n goal 
by Prudence Wear 
In an interview yesterday, Saint Mary's Student Body President Sue Turnbull said she expects community government to have its most effective year. She feels this will result from a "new sense of cooperation between students, faculty, ami administrators." 
Turnbull said, "There will be problems getting some of our plans through. Many of them arc controversial around here. But, I feel that all arising problems will be workable." 
"Both last year's and this year's freshman classes have been more cooperative than I ever expected. Father McCrath came to our workshops this summer with many exciting ideas. We learned from last year's mistakes. They were groping and I don't feel we arc So I have high hopes for all our plans." . ' 
ller first intention is to deal with the Shuttle Hus fare. 
"We knew nothing at all about a charge to the students. And we're going to get this cleared up immediately." 
Turnbull's main goal will be the examination of academic problems and possibilities. Emphasis will be on re-evaluating the pass-fail system and the freshman and sophomore curriculum, attempting to obtain exemptions from finals for seniors, and exploring the idea of changing the basis of the curriculum from "majors" to "areas of concentration." 
On the probability of obtaining senior exemptions, Turnbull's only comment was "I don't know." 
The plan to change from the concept of majors to areas of concentration has been under consideration for some time. The aim of such a change is to supply the student with "inner disciplinary studies previously lacking." 
One of Turnbull's major goals this year is the precise definition of the role of the Student Affairs Council in community government. She also intends to ask for clarification of the rule on demonstrations. 

Another goal is the strengthening of 
hall government to facilitate on-campus communication. Hall councils will be given more responsibility and a greater allottment of the budget. 
The communication gap between the on-campus students and the day students has been somewhat bridged by the appointment of day-students to_ project chairmanships and Student·-. Services Organization memberships. Turnbull hopes soon to make available lunch passes for them to be purchased at a flat fee. 
Presently being researched is the possibility of Off Campus housing to be in effect by next fall. 
"The argument before was that the buildi_ng of the sister dorm to McCandless 
would monetarily necessitate the college 
to demand on-campus living. Now, in 
principle they can't oppose it. The money 
didn't come in, yet, and they have 
already made tentative plans for 250 
extra students they'll have no rooms for," ·Turnbull said. 
Car permission for underclassmen is. 
another 1970-71 hopeful. llowever, the 
parking facilities must first be extended. 
The Student Services Organization is 
holding a used books in the Clubhouse 
today to raise some of lthe needed funds. 
The Student Body President's personal 
desire for the year involves the student 
body. 

"This year I want all the stuuents 
affirmed to become more aware of their 
rights and responsibilities." Turnbull said 
"So many of the students haven't eve~ 
read the Statement of Student Rights and 
Responsibilities and it's theirs. ·Someday 
it might save them from being. expelled." 
~~~-~~~==~-------=-----------------------------~ 

Students balk 
at slluHie fare 
by Glenn Corso 
Dow Jones closing range of stock averages:  
Stocks  1/ixh  /.ow  Close  
JO Industrials 20 Kails  !U6_(, 200.4  822.8 198.4  831.5 199.6  Nl'W l'ducation course , page 9  
IS Utilities  113.9  112.6  112.7  
65 Stocks 281.6 277.6 279.9 Net dwnxe: 30 Industrials, up 5.01; 20 Kails, up 0. 7.1; IS Utilities, of 0.55; 65 Stocks, up 1.02.  Over 5000 Filhting Irish llddicts are npected to brave the Meat Squad to see the oldest university marching band at tonight's pep  'This  Saturday's winners, page 12  


PAGE 2 
Raiders sneak previewl~&t::~ti.ir(iJst4941~~z-:~~.· I
: ... --·~' ·._.,,_.....,~,1;'",. I 
~ . ~---. . 
with the same spirit that Notrt: i · · : 
by Cliff Wintrode 
and Joe Cottrell 

The co-exchange program between Notre Dame and St. Mary's reached a new dimension of cooperation last night as each school took turns hosting a romp through their residence halls. 
Notre Dame initiated the evening's festivities when after the Dillon Hall pep rally they spontaneously decided to stage a preemptive raid on Holy Cross Hall. Without pausing to stop and ask for panties, the guys plunged into the hallway and adjacent rooms. 
After roaming through the corridors for over ten minutes, some were still inside thirty minutes later, the raiders headed for Le Mans, which fell within seconds to the human seige. 
The crowd lost their fire after roaming through Le Mans and the raid reached its end in the halls of McCandless. 
The Notre Dame students were predictably quite enthusiastic and delirious with excitement and joy at the conclusion. 
"I've heard about Notre Dame 
spirit but I never knew it was 
like this." 
"I wish the girls had had more clothes to give away." 
The men were quite 
appreciative of the warm 
welcome that the belles of St. 
Mary's had extended to them. 
I've never seen so many friendly SMC girls. They loved it. It was great." 
The girls were appreciative of the guys' actions. "They had spunk, fire, and determination." 
Holy Cross freshmen and sophomores then reciprocated en masse to Notre Dame and 
ATI'N: ALL STUDENTS 
P l e a s**"****e check your listing f o r t h e student directory 
in the Huddle. 
Dame had shown while Notrl' I : 
. h • •
Dame reciprocated w1th t e : : same friendly welcome that St. : 5 Mary's had exhibited. ! : 
After harcly reaching the : I inner corridors of Sorin llall, the ! i girls then proceeded to march on : . . . I 
-----~ 4 ......:<-­
Walsh and completely overrun : .-c :
. • 

the second and third floors. : They were greeted. hy 5 
shouting crowds of rncn lining : . 
the halls and staircases including :. one surprised guy who had just : gotten out of the shower. : 
Penalties hy Notre Dame 5 included a major for tripping 5 with a hockey stick and dousing : a few girls with a full can of 5 
b~~ :
•

The leader of the St. Mary's : delegation when asked why they : : 
: 
: 
:: •
E 
;;• 
~ 
~ . •: 

: Han~ing by his knees from a Firestone blimp, our intrepid Observer photographer 5 
ha~. retaliated replied: :caught tl~ts u~usual perspective of Notre Dame football. The play being run is a triple: We thought Notre Dame :reverse fhp-swtvel. Northwestern scouts please take note. : would enjoy it. It was fun when : : 
they came over. As long as we 
have co-ex classes. we ~night as
well have co-ex panty raids. 
"We wanted the men to know that we are not stuck up and that we are friendly. The Notre Dame guys are welcome back any time." 
Manhattan docks; Oil route open 
NEW YORK (UPI)-The super icebre1l1.er Manhattan reached its first American port yesterday after sailing around the North American continent at the top of the world. 
The l ,002 foot research vessel dropped anchor nine miles off Barter Island, Alaska, due to shallow water. The small settlement is 200 miles east of Point Barrcw, the final point of destination of the Manhattan's westward ~oyage. 
State officials will board the 

Manhattan Friday at Pruehoe 
Bay to present a symbolic barrel 
of Alaskan crude oil to Capt. 
Roger Steward. The Manhattan's 
voyage has proved that vast oil 
reserves found in the bay area 
can be brought out to East Coast 
ports by icebreaking tankers. 
WE'RE BACK!! 

• 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll:
C P A d·tscusses structure plans
t 

FREE UNIVERSITY 
Nl:"/:DS 


COURSES AND LEADERS 
Your Name and Course Resume to: 
Box 66 SMC or Rick Libowitz c/o NO Student Gov't. 
NOTICE 
PARTTIME EMPLOYMEN 
KEYSTONE CORPORATION 
LARGEST MANUFACTURER OF MOVIE EQUIPMENT 

NEEDS MEN 
Call: 289-3662 
NO TRANSPORTATION NECESSARY 
by Chuck Darst 
About 80 people attended the first meeting of the Coalition for Political Action last night in O'Shaughnessy Hall. Chuck Leoni conducted the meeting and said, "The CPA is an organization formed to meet the changing need of the Notre Dame-South Bend community for semi-independent, project oriented groups with a radical outlook. Each group will have a particular project and will operate in an autonomous 
manner within its ownt particular area." One of these groups, coordinated by Tim MacCarry, is involved in community research. 
MacCarry noted that present sociology textbooks and the media do not really "tell it like it is" and that there is a definite need for a new intellectual analysis of America. He went on to say that the purpose of his group is to first get people together who are interested in constructing a new radical analysis of the social structure in the Notre Dame-South Bend community, and then "cross-fertilize" this information with other aspects of the Coalition. 
Junior John Wilson from Students Against Racism said that they hoped to educate the students as to the evils of racism, 
change their thinking as much as. possible, and hopefully certain structures that perpetuate racism. 
Chuck Leoni disclosed suggested CPA actions in conjunction with the October 15th Vietnam War Moratorium. Among the possibilities were: a march to the ROTC building and reading of the list of Notre Dame war dead, a teach-in and rally with guest speakers, fasting on an individual basis, a religious celebration-perhaps a Mass-where students might turn in their draft cards, and a formal Catholic exorcism of the ROTC building. 

Brian Mcinerney said that one reason radical efforts like the Dow-CIA sit-in last fall were not too successful is because not enough work was done to educate people and create sentiment, and that CPA hopes to conduct discussions in all the halls prior to any CPA actions concerning how, why, and if such actions should be taken. 
Professor Douglas of the Department of Non-Violence also spoke, saying that inspite of stiffer sentences, the number of people resisting the draft has grown to what the government would consider epidemic proportions. 
He cited that of the 275 men to be inducted in Oakland on August 14th, only 155 actually reported. And of those, 35 refused induction. 
Planned shuttle fare attacked 
(continued from page 1) 
additional monies the university received as a result of tuition hikes has been used for raises in faculty salaries, and for an inflationary rise in operating costs. Student Union is operating on a tight budget this year, because of the need to pay off the debts accumulated by previous Student Governments, so they are not in a position to provide the service free of charge either. 
Susan Turnbull, Student Body President of St. Mary's was critical of both the decision, and its timing. 
"The Student Government knew nothing about (the decision to charge a dime) until T h u r s d a y morning," she claimed, "We were not told that there would be a charge for the students." 
Miss Turnbull pointed out that both the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame student governments had been asked by 
the university for $5,000 apiece tor tne snutue ous service. ''The bus costs the university $6.50 an hour. If all the girls at SMC took a round trip on the bus once a week, at a 
Features at: 
1:15-3:15·5:15 7:15-9:15 

Last Summer Was Too Beautiful to Forget; · And Too Painful to Remember. 
dime a ride, the students would e n d up paying over $6,000 per year," Miss Turnbull claimed 
Por further SMC reaction, see Jeannne Sweeny's story on the meeting of the SMC legislature. 
Shuttle bus fo change route 
Due to the expanded Notre Dame Saint Mary's co-exchange program, there will be increased shuttle bus service between the two schools. 
This year, there will be buses every fifteen minutes, between the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 4: 30, during the week. After 4:30 one bus will run until 12: 15. On weekends, one bus will run, until 
2:30 in the morning. 
The route this year has also been changed. The first stop will be the library circle, then the stadium, the waiting room at the circle, the ROTC building, and the grotto. 
Due to the increased service the University has chartered the buses from the South Bend Public Transportation. The buses and drivers will be the same as those in South Bend. 
The increase in service has generated a rise in costs. The university has deemed it necessary to charge a dime per passenger after 6 p.m. The reason being that the university 
felt it did not have to "subsidize the social lives of the students" according to Tim Collins, Stude~t Union Manager of Transporta­tion. 
CHESS PLAYERS! 

Try correspondence chess for fun, relaxation and leisurely study for game improvement. Free information-join Chartered Chess-1312 "B" Street-Hayward, California 14541. 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1969 THE OBSER.fla PAGE 3 
CPA to deal with rac1sm, ROTC, other ISSUeS 
by Cliff Wintrode 
This summer Notre Dame was the scene of the birth of the Coalition for Political Action. The Coalition was formed to address itself to national as well as to local issues. 
Fred Dedrick, Student Body Vice-President and one of the founders of the coalition, explained that the purpose of the Coalition was twofold: 
"First, we will try to set up a liberal to leftist organization that would be able to respond to certain situations which require some sort of action. Second, we will probably be essentially an organization which will work with other groups and try to be available to help them in any way they can usc us." 
Ed Roickle, a member of the 
coalition, elaborated on this 
idea. He said that the coalition 
"is not a party at all, not 
political" in the Sl'nsc that it will 
not put up candidates for 
election of campus offices nor 
will it endorse candidates. 
Chuck Leoni, in commenting on tht• organizational structure of the walition, said, "We are setting up projects. The structure will evolvr• from the projects." 
The force of the coalition was 
noticed by nearly all the 
fr.~shman class as the coalition, 
in conjunction with individuals 
from the St•tdents Against 
J<.acism grou 1, s.:nt out letters to 
the parents on the subject of an 
"Anti-Racism Project" that was 
started at Notre Dame. 
l'hil McKenna, Student Body 
Presidl~nt and primary author of 
the Jette• as a member of the coalition stated that: "It is our <•im to um·eil to each member of the univer!.IIy community the racism inherent in both individuals and institutions." 
The letter went on to urge that upon realization of this inherent racism, the Notre Dame community should undertake a program of remedial education which was considered the primary method of attacking racism, followed by preparation to act. 
"We feel that this two-fold approach of educ;•tion and action is essential to the ;'roject's true success." 
Roickle. in defending the a~·; :rtion in tl>e letter that the racism in our university and society was "more unconscious than conscious, more covert than overt, and more behavioral than attitudinal" answered: 
"We can legislate open housing. We can not legislate against racism. We have to change their hearts." 
In the same envelope as the anti-racism letter, the coalition sent out a letter to "present a more accurate picture of the limitations and obligations" of the ROTC program than is given by ROTC during orientation. 
The Coalition's counter efforts were centered around four arguments why a student should delay a decision on whether or not to join ROTC. 
First consideration was directed at the moral decision a student makes while not "seriously considering the implications involved." They felt that to "decide to join ROTC before a thorough investigation of the theological, philosophical, psychological, and sociological consequences would be a mistake." 
Second priority was that ROTC "limits the opportunity of the student to pursue areas of study by requiring him to usc many of his electives in order to take ROTC courses." 
Third, the coalition deplored the situation where a decision will "affect the next ten years of one's life." They mentioned two alternatives: Officer Candidate School and the ROTC two year program. 
The fourth argument was expressed in this way: "Finally the uncertainties of the status of the selective service system make a choice to join ROTC at this time somewhat imprudent." 
The coalition closed the letter asking, as fellow students, "to discuss these (serious issues) with you when you arrive in the fall." 
Leoni said the letter represented a "rational kind of level headed approach which would appeal to parents more than any other way." 
Roickle replied that in the letter "We are not attacking ROTC as such. We are asking people to stop and take a look at both sides of the story because the decision to join ROTC may be one of the most important decisions he will make at the university. It will affect the next few years of his life after graduation." 
John Craniak, a member of the coalition, responded to a question of why this "rational There arc representatives from level-headed" approach was a II these groups in the employed in this way: membership of the coalition. 

"In the long run this will start The coalition is aiming to people thinking about the reach three objectives on the day question, and they may of the moratorium: induce the eventually evolve toward a more administration to call off classes, militant position on the issue." have high school and college 
The first big push of the students boycott classes if the coalition will be felt in 
administration refuses to call off accordance with the Viet Nam classes, persuade businesses to War moratorium on October 15. release their workers for the day. 
They hope that Notre Dame, ST. Leoni commented: "It is not Mary's, IU, high school students, a student strike as such; it is a and South Bend residents will be 
moratorium on business as r~presented in the protest. 
usual." 
India Week proclaimed 
South Bend Mayor Lloyd Allen, Mayor of South Bend, Allen signed a proclamation Indiana, hereby proclaim the yesterday, declaring the week of week of September 29 through September 29 as India Week in October 5, 1969, as India Week conjunction with the India and urge all thoughtful citizens Association of Notre Dame. to participate in those 
India week activities will be ceremonies designed to call held on the Notre Dame campus attention to this observance.' in Washington Hall. In Allen's absence, his 
The proclamation stated: administrative assistant, Vernon 'Whereas, the India Association Sutton, presented the of Notre Dame is celebrating the proclamation to Vinod Khera, IOOth anniversary of the birth of president of the India Mahatma Gandhi on October Association of Notre Dame. 2, 1969 · and where as, in his Sutton stated, 'I think it 
leadership of the people of might be well again at this point India, Mahatma Gandhi brought to review the life and activities to the world's attention the of a great man of the world philosophy and attributes of because of his advocacy of his non-violent accomplishments; non-violent solutions to and whereas the India problems of humanity. It would association of Notre Dame is be well for citizens of local sponsoring a week long University bodies as well as the informative and entertaining community to re-examine the program related to Gandhi's life life of this great man. We urge all and Indian culture: thoughtful citizens to participate 
'Now therefore, I, Lloyd M. in this activity.' 
REFRIGERATORS FOR RENT 
UNLIMITED SUPPLY 
$7.00 per month 
Share the cost with your roommates 



NORCOLD, INC. 1501 Michigan Street, Sidney, 011io 45365 A Subsidiary of the Stolle Corporation 
YOU CAN RENT OR BUY 
DELIVERY, SERVICE, MAINTENANCE, AND PICK UP ARE FREE 
COMPACT COOL, INC. 
Another Sen·icc of Student Sen·ices Commission 
CONTACT-Jim or Bob Pohl 7757 or 1180 4th Floor Lafortune or 313 Flanner Tower 



congressional districts. 
mechanism to pass the House in
TODAY 

WASHINGTON (UPI)-Three fourths of the states, 38
166 years. 
in number, would have to ratifyRejecting ali proposed A two thirds vote was any plan agreed on by the Housemodifications, the House voted required for passage, and leaders

EXCLUSIVE NORTHERN INDIANA 
and Senate for it to become ayesterday to abolish the 180 had feared the outcome would part of the Constitution. Ther year old Electoral College and be close. But the final tally was

-SHOWING­
was little chance this could takeprovide for the people to elect an easy 339 to 70. · 

place prior to the next

their President by direct vote. The far reaching reform plan presidential election. 
LIMITED ENGAGEMENT 
A resolution embodying the was sent to the Senate, where it 
As proposed by the

proposed constitutional faced an uncertain future. A two committee and passed by the
3 Perfonnances Daily At 2:00-5:00-8:00 
amendment passed on a roll call thirds majority is required in House, the resolution providesvote, capping seven days of each chamber to propose a for a nationwide runoff electiondebate on the nation's basic constitutional amendment to the
WINNER!3ACADEMY AWARDS 
between the two top presidentialelectoral structure. It was the states, and a substantial number vice presidential tickets if

INCLUDING BEST ACTRESS KATHARINE HEPBURN 
first measure proposing reform of senators favor a rival plan to neither got 40 percent in theof the presidential election count the presidential vote by first balk ting. 
I 
1­

Fly your E 
c ·;:; 

own jet! e 0 
li ..: ~ 
c 
0
·;:; !I
.!!! Q. <t 3 E 
iii

FLY NAVY > 
..> 0 c 
z 

Representative will be on campus 1l u
li ... "' ..

Sept. 22, 23, 24, 25, & 26. .."' 
0::
> 0 "i 0 

For Groups & Theatre Parties Call MGR. after 12 noon at 233-1676 

WASHINGTON (UPI)-The American Bar Association endorsed 1udge Clement F. Haynsworth 1r.'s nomination to the Supreme Court yesterday and said it had found no evidence of conflict of interest in his ruling on a controversial court case in 1963. 
But AFL-CIO President George Meany said Haynsworth was simply unfit to serve as an associate justice. And Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D Mass., questioned whether the 56 year old South Carolinian was enough of a "man of the times" for a court some view as "the last bastion for social change in America." 
FAMIUES ChlrBroiM 
WELCOME 
Steaks anll
11 a.m. to 
Hamburcers
12P•I'!'• 
STARTS 
7118 OBSERIJER. 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1969 
..
fit 
I I

• • Blacks obtain rooms 
by Dave Fromm 

Rooms 2A and 2B of and culturally. l!e felt that it is LaFortune have been reserved time to reciprocate. Notre for the usc of Notre Dame's Dame blacks therefore plan to Afro-American Society this work closely with programs and year. The two rooms will replace problems in the South Bend a smaller room the community. They will make Afro--Americans occupied last themselves available for tutoring year in the student center the children (SO% of which are basement. black) enrolled in the Study 
Rev. Charles I. McCarragher, Help Program run by Notre 
Vice President for Student Dame. ... Affairs, said that the rooms were They will also help out at g given to the society for two neighborhood recreational ::J main reasons: (I) as a minority centers set up in five or six ~ group its needs are greater and sections of South Bend for black !&' (2) in order that the society youngsters. By working with ~ might become better organized. children and teenagers, the 
society hopes to reach the

:: ''We shouldn't deprive 
parents and other adults as well.
students of the space they For the first time theneed," McCarragher said. "I'd do 
Afro-American Society
the same for any minority group conducted a black freshmanwhich is trying to get organized orientation program this year.
and accomplish an aim," he McFarland considered it "quitecontinued. 
successful." 

Art McFarland, president of "The program gave the the Afro--American Society, freshmen some insights intoLawrence E. Walsh of New he said, "a few regretted the said yesterday that the aims of what problems to expect atYork said the ABA's standing appointment because of the society have taken a new Notre Dame," McFarland said.
committee on the federal differences with Judge 
direction. This year's plans "We hope it will relieve some ofjudiciary, of which he is Haynsworth's ideological point center around an attempt to the psychological pressureschairman, agreed unanimously of view, preft'rring someone less bridge the gap between Notre others have faced."
that Haynsworth, chief judge of conservative." 

Dame blacks and South Bend In addition, the society hasthe Fourth U.S. Circuit Court of Under questioning by blacks. assigned each black freshman a
Appeals was "highly Kennedy, Walsh said the 
McFarland said that in the big brother to assist the newacceptable." committee had looked for bias past his South Bend brothers student academically, socially,

Of those the ABA group in Haynsworth but found none. 
have enriched his society socially and culturally. interviewed about Haynsworth, 
Vehicle registrations heavy, exceed estimate 
by Steve Hoffman 

Director Arthur Pears said that guidelines, revenue from these imminent approval of 
In the wake of recently his department was not payments will be deposited in Sophomore cars on campus, Mr. amended University policy, an adequately staffed to deep up the university's general account Pears answered in the negative, influx of automobiles has with the more than 200 cars to be used for the construction and cited a scarcity of parking flooded the campus as Juniors which are being registered daily. of better parking facilities. space as the chief hindrance to 
and Seniors rush to register their Registration continues Prerequisites for vehide such provisions. However, the cars. It appears that the through today at Stepan Center. registration, in addition to issue would have to be resolved unexpected surge of students to Beginning Monday, the payment fee, include both a by the Dean of Students and the Stepan Center registration registration site will be certificate of ownership and a SLC. facilities will far exceed previous t ra nsf erred to the Security certificate of insurance. The Penalties imposed for traffic estimates. Building to accommodate penalty for falsifying violations on campus, including 
To cope with the flow of students from I: 30 to 3:30 p.m. identification is fixed at $25, parking errors and speeding, students, a harried crew of Registration of cars requires a while failure to register a car have been enacted. Fines of $10 Security Police has spent the fee of $10 for off-campus within 48 hours after its arrival will be levied on students entire week in registering students, and $25 for those on on campus will incur a fine of parking in lots other than those campus. $50.
student automobiles. Security designated, and on students In accord with SLC When questioned '""mcerning travelling in excess of 20 m.p.h. 
HOUSE VOTES TO ABOLISH ELECTORAL COLLEGE 

.r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
FRIDAY..!_ SEPTEMBER 19, 1969 TilE OBSERUER. _____________________________________________P_A_G_E__5_ 
Engineering Dept 
"Branching," "matrix" and "core course," are a few terms engineers at ~ :otrc Dame will have to add to their vocabulary this fall. The terms do not come from a new branch of science-but from innovations within the College of Engineering. 
During the past year, the college has completely revamped its curriculum, reorganized its faculty, replanned its facilities, and reevaluated its requirements. Dr. 1oseph C. Hogan, dean of the college and chief instigator of the sweeping changes, sees the goal as improved engineering education at all levels. 
"Under the old, departmental system," he explained, "we had unnecessary duplication of effort. Five of our eight departments taught courses in fluid mechanics, some to very small classes. Several departments taught other similar courses, using the ··;a me text." 
Under the new "branching" system of curriculum specialization, such undesirable duplication would not occur. Fluid mechanics would become a "sub-core course, taught by one professor to students of five departments. 
The branching curriculum is so nam~.:d because a student's program begins with general "core" co ursc s, progresses through the more specialized "sub-core" courses, and finally ends with the highly specialized "departmental" courses. 
The College Council, an advisory body in the college, created the core program to give students the basic science, e ngi nee ring and humanities every cngi neeri ng graduate needs. All students in the Co II e g e of Engineering are required to take the core series. 
The next level of specialization is the sub-core ourscs taught to the students of two or more departments. For 
. i nstancc, mechanical and aerospace engineers might share similar courses until late in their programs, while electrical 
engineers would branch out earlier into their specialties. At the level of greatest specialization is the departmental course, taught only to students of one department. 
Students will also gain by the recommended lowering of degree requirements from 140 to I28 credits. 
"About I20 to 128 credits is the range of credits required at colleges of cngmcenng around the country," Hogan explained. "Even so, the student will have to take 16 credits a semester to graduate in four years." 
The new curriculum also gains from the decreased duplication of effort created by better 
Assembly will study shuttle bus finances 
by Jeanne Sweeny 
At the first meeting for this 
academic year, the St. Mary's 
Student Assembly took action 
on the newly established ten 
cent fare for the shuttle bus 
conncding the St. Mary's and 
Notre Dame campuses. 
Student Body Vice President Beth Driscoll, who chairs the Student Assembly, proposed a rcsolr. ·ion to investigate the fare which is effective after 6 PM every evening. 
Miss Driscoll called for an "investigation into the financing of the shut tic bus," which is operated by the South Bend City Bus Co., but is financed by Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Aceo rding to the proposal passed unianimously by the assembly, the funds allocated for the bus' expense will be frozen pending the outcome of the investigation. 
The purpose of this in vcstigafion 1s to examine "certain difficulties and m is u n d c r standings in the financing of the said service." 
The difficulties discussed were 
the gross overcharge of ten cents 
and what will be done with the 
receipts which will come from 
this new system. 
The Assembly also confirmed the executive cabinet's appointment of nine girls to the academic committees of the College. These girls will be the first students to hold scats on their respective academic committees. 
Sally Trippel and Fran Nixon were approved by the Assembly for the Admissions and Scholarship Committee. Miss Trippel is a senior day student who has worked in the student aid office for three years, and Fran Nixon is a senior staff student who has a great interest in this committee. 
Marilyn Reidy, a senior, will be seated on the Academic Standing Committee. 
The library committee will have two new members, one a senior, Carolyn Bayer, and Jeanne Luczai, a junior who has worked in New York public libraries. 
revamped 
communication between departments. The vehicle of improved communication i~ a new body called the "matrix group," composed of faculty from several departments who share a common research j,nterest. For instance, a 
· professor of the department of civil engineering and another from chemical engineering could share an interest in environmental studies. Both would then join the matrix group in the field. The new faculty organization is based around two bodies-the department and the matrix group. There arc now five e ngi n cering departments: aerospace and mechanical engineering, chemical e nginecring, civil engineering, electrical engineering, and metallurgy and material sciences. Seven new matrix groups have been formed so far-with plenty of room for more as the need arises. They arc: electrical sciences, environmental studies, fluid mechanics, materials sciences, solid mechanics, systems, and thermal sciences. In matrix organizatiOn, communication can flow two ways, within and between departments. The departments might be thought of as the columns, crossed by the matrix groups, which provide communication between departments. Under the old departmental plan, only the dean and chairmen needed to approve new course offerings and curriculum changes. Under the matrix organization, however, both the appropriate department and the concerned matrix group must make recommendations on almost every important change within the college. As an example, the matrix group plays a major role in designing courses for the new curriculum. In fact, a core course in solid mechanics would be created from scratch by the solid mechanics matrix group. The appropriate matrix group must also make recommenda­tions on any departmental course related to 1ts field ot mterest. In this way, the group will know if two or more departments plan to offer similar courses, and can suggest offering a sub-core course for students in both departments. 
However, the matrix group is not -theonly change in college reorganization. The departments of aerospace engineering and mechanical engineering recently merged, to form aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
.. Hoth departments have very similar interests," Hogan explained. "In fact, a survey of their courses showed only_ ab~ut 

THE OBSERVER NEEDS YOU On the job training. Interest counts more than experience. 
We need writers, salesmen, layout people, cartoonists, and editors. Stop by our offices in LaFortune or reply by mail to Box 11 Notre Dame and we'll contact you. 

Dr. Jollll!ph C. HQJan 

40 credits of difference between the two programs. However, we will continue to offer separate degree programs in the two fields," he added. 
The department of engineering science, which offered highly theoretical courses for students interested in research, will cease to exist as a department, but will continue as a degree program. 
Hogan believes the same degree can be administered more efficiently as a program by an interdisciplinary committee. 
"In fact, we hope to add several interdisciplinary degrees in the future," Hogan explained. "If we offered a bio-medical engineering degree, or an ocean engineering degree, these would be administered in the program format, by staff members interested in these areas." 
Another goal-efficient use of space-becomes more important in view of the college's plan for a new building. The engineering college is already planning laboratory, office, and classroom space for this facility. "The matrix groups will help us design labs that can be used by several departments," Hogan said. 
As an added bonus to the efficiency and flexibility of his new matrix organization, Hogan hopes the matrix groups will stimulate research. 
Validation cards introduced here; 
supplement IDs 
The new validation cards that were issued to all students at registration ate designed to take the place of the combination schedule-certificate of validation paper issued in previous years. 
The validation card will also be used for all embossing which is done at the bookstore and the library. The new freshman ID cards will be flat, with no raised lettering. 
There are six different types of validation cards. Two types for the students of ND and SMC and two types for the staffs and the faculties of both schools. All will be re-issued annually, except student cards, which will be re-issued each semester. 
Some students, especially those accepted to the university late, did not receive their cards. A notice pertaining to this will be issued by the Dean of Students sometime next week. Those freshmen not receiving their cards will get them in the mail with their regular ID cards, within the next two weeks. 
S.U. Typist & Receptionist 
Munday -Friday 
9am -12 noun 

Inquire: 
S.U. BOX 427 4th Floor LaFortune 283-7757 
STUDENT UNION CALENDAR 
For The Week Of September 19 Through 25 
Friday, Sept. 1 9 

6:45p.m. Pep Rally in the Fieldhouse 8:30p.m. Zahm Hall and Texas Club sponsor a party at the Hillside Barn. Buses leave SMC and ND after the pep rally. $5.00 per couple. 8:30·12:30 p.m. 
8:30p.m. Class of '71 sponsors a party at the Laurel Club. 
9:00p.m. Class of '72 sponsors a party at the Mishawaka Conservation Club. $4.50 per couple. Free refreshments. Buses leave the Circle and SMC at 8:30. 
Saturday, Sept. 20 

1:30 p.m. Notre Dame vs. Northwestern 
8:00p.m. Dionne Warwick Concert with Woody Herman and Orchestra in the ACC. Tickets are $2, $4, and $5. 
Sunday, Sept. 21 

11:00 a.m. Formal opening of Academic year. With Solemn Mass in Sacred Heart Church. 
7:30 p.m. Chicago Black Hawks exhibition Hockey game in the AO::.. General admission tickets are $3.00. Cell 283·7354. 
Tuesday, Sept. 23 

7:00 p.nl 'alid Movie in ~l]\~n~~i~~ring Auditorium: "Spy with my Face." 
9:00 p.m. , \; ..) ,... • J~ ' 
A Service of Student Union 

PAGE 6 
711B OBSERJJEit 

THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
OONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Publisher GAETANO DeSAPIO, Editor DAVID M. BREEN, Business Manager 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
more responsive to the needs of to­day's students. Students must play a

Cornell's plight: 
role, either advisory or participatory, in making all decisions which effectCornell University's Board of Trus­this University. Students are here totees issued a 61 page report last week learn; the University is here to imparton the student disorders that occurred knowledge. It would seem that that is there last April. The special investiga­common ground enough to insureting committee which compiled the cooperation.

report laid the blame for the disrup-Finally the Administration and stu­. tions on the University's failure to dents must begin to understand moreenforce its disciplinary procedures closely the needs of the Black student over the last few years. 
not only at Notre Dame but also inThe report was also critical of American society. Notre Dame is cur­University President's James A. Per­rently looking for someone to head its kins willingness to submit to student Black studies program. We hope that ademands too readily and the Univer­talented and progressive Black dir­sity's failure to communicate clearly ector is found soon. Black students atto students the goals of the academic Notre Dame believe that only a Blackcommunity. Because of a communica­director will be able to perceive clear­tions gap, the University failed to rally ly the type of Black studies programstudents in support of those goals. 

needed at the University.

The report was also critical of the We hope that Black students willUniversity's efforts to establish a embark on a program to inform theBlack studies program. It stated that Notre Dame community of what they the University did not have a clear are really looking for. Cornell's report understanding of the ultimate goals of stated that no one there really under­the program nor of Black student stood what the ultimate goal was toneeds. 
be. Notre Dame can do better thanOminous parallels exist between the that.

report's description of the situation at Notre Dame must begin to workCornell before their disorders and the now so that Cornell's plight will notsituation that currently exists at Notre be our own.
Dame. It is no secret that University rules 
Registration:

and regulations have gone without 
enforcement over the past few years. 
Two days of hectic registration and The University has not made too 

class scheduling have ended for St. valiant an effort to communicate its 
Mary's and Notre Dame students. 

goals to students and certainly has not The process of registration at Notre rallied too much enthusiasm for any­Dame and St. Mary's is characteristic thing. Discussions about dealing with of the quagmire in which much of the the problems of Blacks on the campus American educational system had have not progressed very far since last been wallowing for a long time. 
year when they were initiated for the Students are denied access to the 
first time on a serious scale. 
courses which they feel they would 

Notre Dame has no need for any like to are to take
take and forced 

student disorder similar to the one some courses in which they have little that occurred at Cornell. But the only 
or no interest. way to insure that one does not occur 
We realize that both campuses are is to eliminate whatever might foster 

making extensive re-evaluations of one. college and university req uiremcnts. 
Using the Cornell report as a guide, 
We hail the efforts and hope that it is time to call for stricter student changes will come quickly. enforcement and cooperation with the In the mean time, however, changes campus judicial code. In the past, can be made in the registration . students have always hesitated at process itself in order to make it living up to their responsibilities under greater aid toward students receiving the code, using as an excuse the fact good education. that they had no say in establishing First, the procedure which must be the rules. following in order to add or drop a 
With the advent of the SLC, how­course should be simplified. St. Mary's ever, students have played a major charges a student five dollars when a role in constructing the rules which course is added or dropped. The fee is 
guide their lives. By participating in outrageous when viewed in light of the SLC, students have made a com­the amount of tuition a woman pays 
mitment to live within its guidelines. to attend the college. Secondly,It is hoped that this year will see the students should have not to spend a Notre Dame judicial code abided by greater part of the day running from and administered justly by student office to office, line to line, in order 
-run Judicial Boards. This.'is not to say to procure a department chairman or that changes are not needed in the an instructor's signature for a class Code. But if people are to govern their change. 
common lives by law, they must live Students pay enough for an within it as it is changing -not education today and they ought to be merely after it has changed. able to register for, and to take those 
It is time too for the Administra­course in which they are interested tion to make greater strides towards with a minimal amount of effort and establishing an academic environment red tape. 
FRIDAY. SEPTEMBER 19, 1969 
0 

It was a normal registration· I didn't et a thing I wanted! 
l.etters to the editor 
Dear Col. Lavin Editor: the conclusion was inescapable. The following is an open However, professor, you threw letter to Colonel Lavin, me a ray of hope -you pointed Professor of Military Science: out that the Communist Party, Professor Lavin: above all else, wants to end I read with interest the ROTC on campus. Perhaps I am excerpt from your ROTC not then a communist after all, Orientation speech contained in for I want ROTC on campus. Monday's Observer. Assuming Yes, professor, I want it right the accuracy of the reported here where I can see exactly statement attributed to you, what kind of m iIi taristic may I ask the following propoganda you'r shoving down questions, professor? young men's throats. l want 1.) What do you mean by ROTC right here on campus so "Current Communist drive that perhaps some of our future against Youth" and in what way military leaders will be those are the quoted demands "against with a liberal enough education youth" -as your statement to sec contemporary social and implies' international problems in their 2.) Who are you referring to true perspective, and not in the in "Current Events Show their narrow, near-sigh ted ness of the Success"? Allow me to answer "military mind." my own question, Professor. One last question, professor, You mean that vast job-training do you have tenure? programs, improved urban John Mercer housing, and better health 819 E. Napolean Blvd. programs ·are a success of the South Bend Communist Party, U.S.A., don't you professor ? A Comment 3.) Why should agitating in the cities against poor housing Editor: be termed an "excuse", 
One cannot transform professor? You're implying quite 
something that has been growing for 125 years overnight! And toexplicitly that one must be 
insincere to claim to be 
destroy it for that reason is dissatisfied with present slum 
absurd and, of course, archaic. housing. Yet, on this campus at the edge 4.) And what about the 
of a new decade, there is a Communist Party's demand for 
feeling that we have never experienced before--agreement­
"peaceful coexistence with all in that change is not only
nations, socialist and others"? 
necessary, but vital. Each one of
That's an outrageous demand, 
us, from Fr. lies burgh to Joe
isn't it proffessor? Who in their 
Freshman, realize that for Notre
right mind would want 
Dame to survive, our sense of
"peaceful coexistence" 
value must travel to other areas
especially! with socialist 
of the campus than just the
countries, such as Denmark and 
football stadium. We now have
Sweden. (Much better that we 
representative <>tudent
support Greek and Latin 
organizations and good leaders
American Military dictatorships ­
in them. And, in the past year,
right?) 
we acquired our "Council
Yes, Colonel Lavin, I can see 

Tree"--i.e. the Student Life
that you are indeed a credit to 
Council. If used properly, its
the title "professor." It is, I 
worth is infinite.
admit, quite obvious that to 
"No violence. Civility,

favor the demands you quoted is 
rationality, reason. It is going to
to favor the Communist Party 
take hard work on both sides."
and all it stands for -the power 
Perhaps next June we will be
of your logic compels such a 
able to say there was and is only
scholarly conclusion. 
nne side. And that, ··u was a
In fact, I was almost afraid 

very good year."
that I would have to confess to 
J. Michaci'Keefer

being a communist, for Class of '69-'72
considering what I believe in 

FRIQAY. SEPTEMBER 19, 1969 THE OBSERVER. PAGE 7 
Rick Libowitz 
The Buffoons v.s. the Svelte 
And the beat goes on... 
ourselves to Off-Broadway --and even more. Tom Ehrbar This is the t.ime of year when the campus must he relearned. NewWith this issue, the Ohsen•er produdions.) The urbane David (who still guffaws at "Tom and buildings arc going up, debris is cleared away, new faces arc on thefeature staff (an obnoxious Allen Edmonds will offer Jerry" cartoons and who was the North Quad and there arc new looks on SOllll' of the old facescliq uc of culturally dcpnvcd criticism and ~.:omment. first to pan 'The Graduate") around the Main Quad. The Freshmen, thinking everything must bebuffoons) enters into a new -Frequent glimpses into the will endeavor on~.:c more to learned in a day, consult the Sophomores, who claim that was howseason of stimulating diversion, world of music, with an car alarm and enrage all you film they learned it. How's your memory holding out'? You've passed the
ranging from high-brow 
toward the most ~.:urrcnt, most devotees. For sure he i~ more getting scltlcd sl:tgc if you can look hack to when:
com:ncntary to low-brow 
significant sounds and rhythms, competent in this capacity than St. Mary'~ :1ad an R:30 curfew
inanity (with nearly everything 
as they come in or go out of in his infamous pretensions at We had meatless Fridays and ni~:kle cokes
else in between). 
vogue. All Social Commission wit and fantasy. People read "The .Voice" and went to "The Irish Inn"
Besides the striking 
co n~.:c rts w iII likewise be --and even more to come. April Stevens was on campus, "teaching the tigers" Still there? Dorcscmblcnec to the New Yorker 
--a female counterpart to you remember:
(in content, style, taste, etc.) reviewed. The King of Music, 
"Tell it to Tommy" Lenny Joyce
please allow us to indulge in a himself, Jim. E. Brogan, will 
--lengthy in-depth The Freshman Quad
few idiosyncracies all our own. humbly condescend to make his 
artsy-craftsy stuff Nick Eddy
.\ssuming a) that the Observer pedantic pronouncements and to --regular attention to art "The Delphic Oracle"
continues to publish throughout reveal his top ten preferences as 
galleries and coffee-houses, and Bedcheck
the year; and b) that you the weeks go by. continue to read it, we can --Book reviews and assorted to the flourishing arts here in , ,It wa:~ ~II a part of the scene, during the last few years. this culture kingdom But we vc JUSt ftn1shed a new orientation for a new class. The
promise you... mtrospectives by Steve Tapscott 
-finally, gags, games, pranks,

--Timely coverage of all -Random appearances by our orientation process is a swanm we arc all forced to endure. In time hoaxes, stories, and whatever
theatrical happenings within critic-at-large, the svelte, the panic and confusion fade, leaving more pleasant memories ir; 
else the New Yorker has built its

rea~.:h (we will generally restrict voluptuous Marilyn Becker. their wake. Besides, nothing quite as bad ever seems to happen to 
reputation on. 

you as to some of the other freshmen you hear about, like: 
.The confron.tation th.at occurred when the ROTC scholarship wrnncr found h1s long hair<!d roomatc pultir.g up "peace" posters or 
That 125 pound physics major who has a 217 pound roomatc tt1at s~orcs. l~e's the same guy that tried to jump out the window when hrs roomtc set down his wcights ... from four feet in the air. 
And what about the former Romeo from Central Catholic, the one who had been told this place was just crawling with girls? 
Remarks a Freshman gets tired of Department 'If you think this is had you should have seen the rooms before they were fixed up.' ' ... you can't miss it. Just go down towards Badin, turn right and...whadda ya mean, wherc's Badin?' 'There is no substitute for daily preparation.' Already becoming painful? I low about: 'They're not bad, hut if you'd seen Hanratty and Seymour. . .' 
'Arc you sure you're 21? I'll have to sec your I.D.'S.' go 
"You just can't trust the Notre Damers." 
'You just can't trust one of those St. Mary's girls.' 
Ah well, only 70 more days until Thanksgiving. Welcome Freshmen all. 
You've got glide in your stride THE OBSE/lfJER. 

hy Jim E. Brogan 
Earlier this summer, Newsweek magazine gave Joe South the review of a lifetime. Superlatives were not enough to describe his latest album, Games l'eople Play. 
After listening to it though, the only reaction can be one of disappointment. It is a good album, but only good. It is not the combination Otis Redding, Johnny Rivcrs, and Scargcnt Pepper that Newsweek made it out to be. It is Joe South's second album and not his best. llis first album, Introspect was a little better but not much. 
(;ames People !'lay starts out strong with the title song. This million seller was one of the best premier singles of the past year. This single song gives us a great insight into what to expect in the remainder of the album. South wrote and produced this sales giant (as he did all the rest of the songs on this album). The words seem to have some well thought out meaning rcsem bling Simon and Garfunkcl's lack of communications hag. 
Oh we make another cr.v; 
Break a heart, then we· .l'ay gooclhye; 
Cross our hearts and we !rope/odie; 
That the other was to blame . .. 
Oh the games fleople play now; 
Hverv night and even' dav now: 
Nev~r meaning what. tire.;• say now; 
And never saying what they mean. 
The first side moves on very slowly from here. Included is a completely ridiculous one minute interlude of unintelligible coughing, laughing, and talking. This wasted cut docs little to enhance a very dull side (excepting the title song). The only oth~:r bright spot on this side of the longplay waffle is a tunc entitled Concrete Jungle. Although the lyrical thought sounds like a cross somewhere between the Drifters' Up on tire Roof and the Bcatlcs' flare/ Days Night, his hope of seeking refuge from an impersonal world and finding it in another person is a valid undertaking. While other people have taken this idea and have written great songs, the best Joe South could do was write a good song. 
The last cut on side one of this wax deserves spc~.:ial recognition. It is without a doubt the we~rst song to he written since Rats in my Room about 8 years ago. In case you don't, or don't want to remember this oldie, it was the song of a young man bemoaning his living conditions. The lyrics went something like "I've got a fish in my dish, I've got bears in my hair, and I've got rats in my room." Perhaps hearing this song on an oldie show gave South the inspiration that he needed to write, sing, and produce //ole in Your Soul. It consists of such unforgettable lyrics as: 
You 'vc got ~/ide in your stride . .. 
You got the heat in your feet; 
You're uptight. outa sight: 
Baby, you groove when you move: 
11 nd you grind on my mind; 
You give me rain on the brain. 
It is an unforgivable error that such a weak song is on the same side with his powerful (;ames l'eotJ/e /'lay. 
After a so-so first side, (;amcs starts to pick up momentum. This is achieved through two songs that were hits for Billy Jo Royal a few years hack. Although the front of the alhum cover prodaims that flush and Down in the Uoondocks arc wntaincd in the alhurn, in reality what is heard is /lush and I knew rou When. These were both produced by Joe South for Billy Jo Royal and sounded much better when Billy Jo did them. In fact the version of flush done by the Deep Purple in the summer of llJ6H, which South also produced, ~:omcs off better than his own. flowcvcr these arc bot.h excellent songs. and arc certainly done well cn<)ugh to appL'ar on any album. 

· The opinions expressed in the editorials, news analyses, and columns of the Observer are solely those of the authors and editors of the Observer and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administrations, faculties or student bodies. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the Univ6rsity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box II, Notre Dame, Ind., 46566. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46566 
second song !'arty People) Joe South is
Four other songs comprise the remainder of the album. The best of thisc attacking the insincerity of members of is a ditty named Birds of a Feather. This our society. The lyrics arc not only is reminiscent of Van Morrison's Brown catchy but they reveal a potential for Hyed Girl. The sentence structure and the writing songs that is not only good choice of words arc very similar. This cut musically hut also rncnaingful. also contains the happiest surprise of the 
Asparagus tips The disc to watch this whole album: as Birds of a Feather starts 
week is Distractions, by Bobby Darin. 
to fade out, he breaks into a short Bobby has certainly changed his stylerefreshing instrumental version of Games 
from his old Mac the 1\ nife and Sp/ish,People /'lay. 
Splash bag. This easy-listening song has a Of the remaining three song two are country twang with interesting, grabbing
good (//earl's Desire, l.eanin' orr You) 
lyrics. Darin's change in style has and the last is outstanding enough to save 
certainly come at an opportune time; justthe album. It is a song with traces of 
when country-western music is invadingsocial comment and is ~.:ailed These Are 
the pop scene with the likes of <;Jcn
Not My People. Here at the end of the 
Campbell, Johnny Cash, and Kenny album, as at the hcginning((,"amesand the Rogers, 

Brogan's Chart Owiccs 
I Fvcrybody's Talkin' Nilsson 
2 Carry Me Back Rascals 
3 Sugar on Sunday ('liq uc 5 Easy to he liard Three Dog Night 6 Jean Oliver 7 What Kind of Fool Do You 
Think I Am Bill Deal & the Rondclls 
R11 W~Jn1 I Oic Mothcrlodc 
4) liold Me Haskerville llounds I 0 Echo Park Keith Barbour 
r 
rrD~ Q11»111"'£R•If:'D FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1969
~AGE.~8~------------------------------~LR~4~~-WW~4~~~~------------------------~~==~~~ 
SUAC lectures to include HHH and Cronkite 
(continued from page 1) 

book, The /Iuman Condition. A st udcnt of Martin lleiddigcr and Rudolph Bull mann, she has questioned the possibility of doing meaningful speculative thinking and is noted for her analysis of the political man. 
Formerly a prisoner of a Nazi concentration camp, Miss Arendt has also reflected extensively on issues raised in the Jchmann trials -the nature of a totalitarian state, the nature of man's freedom. 
Walter Cronkite, CBS news 
analyst and John Siegenthaler, 
city editor of the Nashville 
Tennessean and formerly 
campaign manager for the late 
Senator Robert Kennedy in 
California, will come to Notre 
Dame in early October. 
According to commJssJoner 
Dowdall, the pair will discuss the 
news-covering versus the 
news-making roles of the press. 
"They'll consider how the 
news media really effect actual 
events and their outcome," said 
the Notre Dame commission 
chief. 

Siegenthaler is also concerned 
about the barring of the press 
from court trials, Dowdall 
added. 

Paul Racoucr, a popular con­temporary theologian will be joining S.I. Hayakawa, San Francisco State's besieged presi­dent, and six other scholars in­cluding french novelist Michel Butor in a symposium at St. Mary's entitled, "Language, Symbol and Reality," set for the first week of November. 
Although his lecture topic is 
still unknown, Racouer, most 
recently on the faculty of the 
University of Chicago, has been 
concerned with the reach of 
symbol and myth into human 
lives and human dis course. 
Other members of the St. 
Mary's symposium will be Karl 
Pat Dowdall Menninger of the Menninger Clinic, Roman Jacobsen, a famed linguist from M.I.T., Meyer Scapiro of Columbia, and Rulon Wells from Yale Univer­sity. According to SMC coordi­nator Mrs. Carl Grasser, the sympQsium will be open to only approximately 250 obscrvors due to limited space. However, the entire program will be video-taped and possibly recorded by closed circuit TV for usc by interested classes. Henritt Ott, a guest of the Notre Dame theology department, will visit the cam pus during the week preceding the St. Mary's symposium. Ott, now holding a chair at the University of Basil long held by theologian Karl Barth, works primarily in the 

area of systematic theology. tic will speak to a ND-SMC audience Monday evening, September 29. 
Specifics have not yet been worked out in a program involving former vice-president Hubert Humphrey and Senator George McGovern. However, both Humphrey and McGovern will participate in a conference sponsored by the N D student government concerning the American Indian scheduled for the week of January 6-10. 
Philosopher Thomas Langan returns to campus October 3, for a series of lectures on the Philosophy of History. 
The popular lecturer returns, says St. Mary's philosophy department head Richard Hutchinson, Jo conduct a seminar for SMC and Notre Dame students as well as to present the four lecture series. 
Langan has expressed a desire to meet and discuss philosophy with any students on either campus that are interested, said Hutchinson. Although still with the University of Toronto, Langan will commute for the seminar and ·lecture series and will have a regular office at St. Mary's to facilitate meeting with students. 
Paul Goodman, an outspoken critic of the American educational system and author of a battery of books on the subject, notably Growing Up Absurd and Compulsory Mis-/:"ducation, will highlight a conference on academic reform scheduled for early November. Good man will be one of a series of experts who will address themselves to the issue of education in America. 
The 4th annual "Challenges in Science" lecture series sponsored by the Arthur J. Schmidt foundation will be on a par with Challenges I, 2, and 3, and will be available to all in!crested Notre Dame and St. Mary's stud c nts regardless of their major, said Professor Emil Hoffman of the chemistry department. 
There had been some uncertaintly about funding for this year's series until very recently, making advance arrangement with possible lecturers impossible, said Hoffman. However, funding has been renewed, and the program which has brought scientists such as Nobel Prize winning chemist Linus Paulmg and bchavioralist James Watson to NotreDame will soon be extending mvitations to men of similar calibre this year. 
A "comprehensive study of black history" is the focus of the greater part of lectures to be sponsored by the history 

department this year. Twenty-seven lectures on various aspects of the development of the black man will be offered by members of the Notre Dame and SMC history faculties and experts from the South Bend area. 
According to Professor Samuel Shapiro, anyone who is determined enough to attend all twenty-seven lertures will have a good overview of the development of the black man. The program, says Shapiro, is designed with a broad base, covering areas in art and biology as well as history proper. 
In late October Senator Franch Church will team up with author Roger Hilsman and southeast Asian expert Mary Wright in a series called "Asian Perspective." 
0 t her not abIes planning lectures for the Notre Dame-SMC community are Indiana Senator Vance Hartke, physicist Henry Margenau, church historian Joseph Altholz, economist Milton Friedman from the University of Chicago, ''business conglomerate" experimentalist Rol-,ert Ling and Northwestern poetry critic Erich Heller. 
Connell resigns 
(continued from page 1) 
Student Body President Phil McKenna and Vice-President Fred Dedrick about this year's sophomore class government, and how it will be affected by Connell's resignation. The possibility of a triumvirate leading the class has been discussed, but is not likely. 
Soph VP Joe Stankus said that the same power which the officers had last year will be returned to the current officers. 
As for the future of Ray Connell, he intends to help tht government as much as possible this year, but he will not consider an officiaJ return to campus government until his grades are in. He also stressed his desire for "more participation on the part of the students in the future." 

• -· 

STUDENTUNtON SotU\LCOMt\\SS\ON 


1n concert w1t~ 
Voody Iierman 

SAT.. SEPT. 
ffilltUi 

hckts...on sa./e a.t the ACC 
, ·:~1f~:::r, #§ ..#'f ,#2 



FRIDAY,SEPTEMBER 19, 1969 THE OBSERIJ£R. 
PAGE 9 

Teacher Preparation Office to aid Education students 
by Jim Holsinger 
1\ new department was added to the university this year as a result of the im:rcasc in co-exchange classes with St. Mary's College. 
The Institute for Studies in Education was ,officially established on Scp~emhcr I, and Rev. Neil G. McClusky, S.J ., was named as dcan-dirc.:to; of the program. 
The Institute will contain the Graduate Department of Education, St. Mary's Education Department, and the Office of Educational Research, as well as a counseling center and programs to aid students in obtaining teaching certification. 
Previously, Notre Dame students had to rely solely on the facilities of St. Mary's College for any education courses or counscUing. 
Now, through the Office of Teacher Preparation, a division 
o f t he n c w I y formed dcpardnent, undergraduate students can obtain teaching licenses in almost ar.y state upon graduation. 
Dr. Eugene V. Campanale is the Associate Director of OTP. 
His office works in close co-operation with other departments of the university to insure that a student need !10t major in education to obtain a license upon graduation. 
"We hope tt>at a No~re Dame student who graduates in any particular area will not only hr able to get a degree in that area, but will also be able to teach in any state," Campanale said. 
The OTP has two types of programs. One allows any undergraduate student to lake up to 6 credit hours in 
education. The other is designed for students who plan to teach upon graduation. 
All the classes arc taken from 

Charlie's 

STEREO TAPES 
8 TRACK 
List$6.98 
Charlie's Price : 
$5.88 

H.JILR.LXE"S 
C4f( fUHNISH1"4hS 

OPEN IJAIL Y 9 to 6;: SAT. 8a.m. to 5p.m. 
PH. 287-7218 

774 Lincoln Way East 
The Observer Is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage ?aid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 
St. Mary's College, although some classes arc taught by St. Mary's professors on the Notre Dame campus. 
Two hundred Notre Dame u ndcrgrads arc currently involved in some aspect of teacher preparation, and ten arc doing practice teaching in the South Bend area this semester. 
Dr. Campanale is hopeful that this number will increase to thirty or more by next semester. 
The OTP works closely with Arts and Letters Associate Dean Robcrt Waddick to arrange student schedules to allow for much in the embryo stage now, but we arc making adjustments as necessary. I think the co-operation we have received from other departments has b c c n phenomenal." D.f. Campanale said. 
The National Council for Accreditation for Teacher Education (NCATE) has given an initial approval to the 
program, but a hoard of examiners must still inspect the courses and facilities. 
Dr. Campanale, who is also the certifying officer for Notre Dame, indicated that if Notre Dame receives approval from NC/\TE, students who graduate from the program could be given a license almost anywhere in the United States through reciprocity. 

He has submitted a copy of the program to the State of Indiana, and he is presently preparing a brochure on the courses. 
St. Mary's College has already received Senate approval. 
the classes on the St. Mary's 
campus, and can also provide DA o1·n,·s subm•·ts t
~~~~du~:~·stim;ra~~ic:no:a~~~n: 
schedule. 
Candidates for the program WILKES BARRE, Pa. (UPI)­must have a 2.25 GPA, and three An amended autopsy petition faculty signatures are required received here yesterday from on the application. Massa chusetts District Atty. 
After a student has made Edmund S. Dinis alleged for the application for the program, Dr. first time that blood was found Campanale and a committee on the clothing and in the from the education department mouth and nose of Mary Jo at St. Mary's College decide Kopechne after her body was whether to accept or reject each recovered from the submerged applicant. auto of Sen. Edward M. 
An applicant must then Kennedy. obtain permission from his Dinis cited the alleged department head to take findings in an amended petition education courses. to bolster his plea for an 
Before pre-registration the exhumation and autopsy on the OTP can work out a student's body of the 28 year old blonde schedule so that he will fulfill secretary. the particular requirements of Luzerne County Judge the state in which he wishes to Bernard C. Brominski set Sept. teach after graduation. 29 for a hearing on the petition, 
"I think that the program has which was revised after the jurist the possibilities of becoming an ruled an earlier one failed to give 
au opsy pe I ~n 
As certification officer, Dr. Campanale has the final decision as to whether a student can be an accredited teacher. Limited certificates arc available, but a graduate with a limited certificate must take at least 71h credit hours during the year and re-apply each year. 
Extensive counselling facilities arc made available to interested students, and the bulletins listing the complete requirements for certification in any particular state are kept on file. 
t•tl 

exhumation and autopsy under Pennsylvania laws. 
The amended petition filed by mail by Dinis claimed that "investigation has revealed there was present a certain amount of blood in both Mary Jo Kopechnc's mouth and nose, which may or may not have 
been consistent with death by drowning." 
The new petition went on to state that there appears on the white shirt worn by Mary Jo Kopcchne "washed out, reddish brown and brown stains on the back of both sleeves, the back and collar." 
Celebrate our first friday with 
The First Friday 9:30-12:00 
SMC COFFEE HOUSE 
Donation $1.00 
excellent one. We ar~ prett.y __s_u_ff_i_c_ie_·n_t__fa_c_·t_s_t_o__w_a_rr_a_n_t_L___________________________.j 
The burgers are biggerat 
501 DIXIEWAY NORTH, SOUTH BEND 

r-----------------,
S· 2 c
I  I  
I  WHEN YOU BUY A WHOPPER!  I''  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  Offer good only with this coupon at  I  
I Burger King, Address of Store goes here. IL----VFFERGOODTODAY .J  

• 

PAGE THE OBSERV£R. FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 19, 1969 
Griswald 
speaker 

Erwin N. Griswold, Solicitor General of the United States. will be the principal speaker at a Notre Dame Law School dinner on the campus. 
Griswold, who is a former dean of the llarvard Law School,. will speak during a reception and dinner scheduled to begin at 7 
p.m. in the Monogram Room of the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Invited guests include members of the Saint Joseph County Bar Assodation, officers and directors of the Notre Dame Law Association, members of the Law School's Advisory Council, and University turstees and officials. 
Griswold also will give a public lecture on "Legal 

NEW YORK (UPI) President Nixon urged all United' Nations delegates yesterday to 
~ust· their best diplomatic efforts to get Hanoi into serious peace negotiations. He later met privately with representatives of eight member nations. 
The President's 10 hour visit was punctuated by the' arrest of 

Erwin N. Griswold 12 antiwar demonstrators Education Today" in the outside the United Nations while Memorial Library auditorium he was addressing the General today at 4 p.m. He served on Assembly. The president the U.S. Commission on Civil appeared to take no notice of Rights from 1961 to 196 7 and loudly chanting pickets. Ue was was president of the Association in a jovial mood as he shook of American Law Schools during hands later with crowds outsid(• 1957-58. He is the author of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel and several books including /,aw and discussed baseball with them. Lawyers in the United States, Nixon called for Middle East The fifth Amendment Today, peace on the basis of a two year Cases on Conflict of /,aws, and old UN Security Council Cases on Federal Taxation. resolution and urged an arms 
Nixon urges UN to help •1n Viet 
embargo for the area; prodded and the prime minister of the United Nations to take Mauritius. action against airline hijackings; Arab delegates already had pledged a sharing of U.S. space expressed dissatisfaction with his know ledge and benefits; approach to the Middle East promised readiness to deal situation, and some Africans 
peacefully with Communist were openly indignant that he China, and called on the Soviet made no mention of African 
Union to join in reversing the problems in his survey of the strategic arms buildup. world scene. 
He did not seek a private In his speech, the President meeting with Soviet Foreign said "the UN memmber-those Minister Andrei Gromyko, who in this room who have long said he would study Nixon's taken an active interest in peace speech carefully, but he was in Vietnam should now take an closeted briefly with UN active hand in achieving it. Secretary General Thant and "I repeat here today what I newly elected General Assembly said in my speech of May 14, PresiJcul Angie Brooks of that we arc prepared to Liberia. In the afternoon he met withdraw all our forces. And the separately at his Waldorf Towers replacement of 60,ooo troops is suite with the foreign ministers a significant step. The time has of France, Tunisia, United come for the other side to Kingdom, South Vietnam, respond to these initiatives. The Thailand, Jordan and Romania time has come for peace:' 
~----------~------------~--------------------~------~ 


eco 
esan 

: tHh '11 U II;! IKl'' ' 

Just drop d ldm Cdrlridge into a Kodak lnslamatic camera and take Joe while he's still JUSt a case In beautiful color snapshots or color slides. Indoors, pop on a flashcube. Having Joe for keer>s ;,, d1al easy. 
Kodak lnstamatic· color cameras. From less than s1o. 

A good pass rush by Mike McCoy (top left) could nullify the Northwestern air game. The weather, but not the frenzied action, should differ from last spring's Blue-Gold scrimmage (top right). Center Mike Oriard (left), once a walk-on, is now co-captain along with Bob Olson (bottom). 
CELEBRATE THE AGONY OF THE AGASE AT THE ALUMNI CLUB 
FRI. NIGHT ALL SAT THE THYMES THE QUABA TRIO 
(Before and after the game) NO COVER CHARGE 
Line-ups 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE SE Tom Gatewood 
I.T Jim Reilly u; Larry DiNardo (' Mike Oriard RT Terry Br !nnan R<; (;ary Kos Tl\ Dewey Poskon QB Joe Theismann 
1.11 B l·:d Ziegler Rill:! Andy lluff FB Jeff Zimmerman 
DEFI·:Nst, 

LE Wall Pat ulski 
I.T Mike McCoy RT Mike Zikas Rl·: Fred Swendsen LOLB Tim Kelly Ll LB Larry Schumacher RILB Bob Olson ROLl:! Bob Neidert RHB Chuck Zloch LIIB John Casser 
SA Clarence Fllis WlLDCAl 
OFFENSE JE Barry Pearson LT John Bradley LG Mike Sikich C Joe Zigulich R(; Terry Exl 
RT John !Iittman 
TE Pat Harrington 
QB Dave Shelbourne RIIB Ken Luxton LIIB Mike Adamle 
FB Mike Hudson 
DEFENSE LE Wilbert llcnby LR Frank Mullins LG William (;aller 
RG Jeff Rockenback RT John Rodman RE Donald Ross MLB Ray Forsthoffcr DHB Brad Somers DHB Jack Dustin DJIB Gary Holland Dff 8 Rich Telander 


We Call it 
~~Livability" 
Our idea is to serve you with lunches and dinners you can live with day after day. Fine steaks properly broiled and at pr;ces you can live with, too. And with pleasant surroundings, comfort­able booths and chairs, a little background music and a smile from the folks who serve you. And a choice of dinners to match your taste: 
I. Sirloin .......................$1.59 
2. 
Rib Eye ....................... l.29 

3. 
Chopped Sirloin .......... 1.09 

4. 
N.Y. Strip ........... ; ....... 1.89 


S. IIam Steak .................. 1.19 
6. 
Fish Fillet ......................99 

7. 
l4 lb. Hamburger Platter with French Fries .. 79 



~ get carried away when you come around... nnd we love it! 

Budweiser. 
is the only beer in America that's Beechwood Aged 
(But you know that.) 
ANHEUSER· BUSCH, INC. o ST. LOUIS • NEWARK • LOS ANGELES • TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS • JACKSONVILLE 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1969
PAGE 12 

Pass defense key to Irish victory 
by Mike Pavlin 
not have the lightning

Passing, for three years the 
combination of Terry Hanratty f o l:US of thl~ Notre Dame 
to Jim Seymour, but figure to be offense, will test the Irish much more than a "three yards defense this Saturday as and a cloud of dust" offensive 
Northwestern opens the 1969 team. season. Whik Andy Huff, l·:d Ziegler, The Wildcats, coming off a and Jeff Zimmerman provide 1-9-0 debacle, feature a potent 
solid running potential 

passing attack spearheaded by quartcrback Joc Theismann has Dave Shclbourne. Last year, the the arm necessary to throw n-1, 210 lb. junior threw for 
when needed. Ile'll have Tom I,358 yards, hitting on I05 of 
Gatewood, who shook off some 251 passes. Up until a few days 
spring injuries to claim the split ago, Shelbourne faced the happy 
end post, and tight end Dewey prospect of having his two 
Poskon as his receivers. leading receivers back. 
On the rebuilt right side of Unfortunately, Bruce Hubbard 
the line will be junior guard(33 catches for 551 yards) will 
Gary Kos and senior Terrymiss tomorrow's contest due to 
Brennan. Mike Oriard, newly an injury. Tight end Pat 
named co-captain, brings half a Harrington ( 17 for 163) is back, 
year's starting experience to the however, and Barry Pearson will 
center spot, while Jim Reilly and 

repl,£1.cc Hubbard. 
Larry DiNardo form a powerful,Coach Alex Agasc has six 
veteran left tackle and guard.

lettermen returning on defense, Massive Mike Ml:Coy anchors but his real concern is the a defensive line which must getdevelopment of a running game. 
to Shelbourne or ND may be in Lettermen Ken l~ton and 
for a tough afternoon. Three Mike Adamlc return to help case 
sophs, Walt Pat4lski, Fred the pressure on Shelbourne. 
Swendsen, and Mike Zikas join The Irish, having lost only one 
McCoy, a pre-season All-America home opener since 1934, will 
pick . 

..................................................................... 

1~IRISH EYE 
By Mike Pavlin, sports editor 
The winners 
Picking a slate Qf football 17. The Falcons looked good winners each weekend has beating SMU, but the Tigers are always been an editor's job. 
big time thi:. year. After all, he is supposed to have Deleware over Gettysburg by the keen mind and cool 
21. My home state university is temperament necessary to make 
once again the ea~tcrn small the tough decisions. 
college power. spring, however, will liliY that I 
Syracuse over Iowa State by shouldn't be allowed to pick 
10. weeds on the South Washington
Illinois over Quad much less football games. 
State by 7. Oregon State over Iowa byMasochistically, I've decided 20.

not only to pcik the game 
Arizona State over

winners, hut also the point Minnesota by 24.
spreads. If you're going to be Purdue over TCU by 17. 
r wrong, why not be wrong in a Oklahoma over Wisconsin by
big way--like Spiro Agnew? 
28.

Notre Dame over Alabama over Virginia
Northwestern-by 27. And good 
Tech-by 14.

headhunting to Mike McCoy! 
Houston over Florida by 17.

Army over New Mexico by Georgia over Tulane by 28.
7. Both teams have poor LSUover Texas A & M by 17.
defenses, but the Cadet runners Texas Tech over Kansas byarc slightly better. 
3.

UCLA over Pitt This is a Baylor over Kansas State byreverse prediction: Pitt (last year 6.
63 7) will lose by no more than USC over Nebraska by 14.
30. 
Arkansas over OklahomaIndiana over Kentucky 

State-by 28.

by 17. Not yet. Johnny 
Colorado over Tulsa by 28.

Ray. 
Texas over California by 21.

Michigan State over 
Wyoming over Arizona byWashington by 17. Duffy's new 17.

offense unveiled. 
Utah over Oregon by 14.

SM U over Georgia Tech by 
Stanford over San Josc

14. A good defensive rush will State by 28.
rattle Chuck Hixson, but Tech Bowling Green over Uthdoesn't have it. 
State by I.

Missouri over Air Force by 

ll Cra(lsmcn in Optin 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGlASSES AND CONTACT LEN~S THE SHERLAND BLDG.··132 S. MICHIGAN ST.··CEntral 2·1463' 

M<1in Office: 13~ N. Wabash Ave.··Chicaqo 
through a heavy summer Sophomores arc traditionally the safely job this spring and is workout schedule and won the prone to mistakes, but the Irish flanked by senior John (;asser job this fall. trio have four experienced men and junior Chuck "Slick" Zloch. 
Eckman will kick-off 

to back them up. Co-captain One name sure to be new to tomorrow at I: 30 in front of Bob Olson, Larry Schumacher, Irish fans is that of Mike N D's first set of female Bob Neidert, and Tim Kelly man Eckman, placekicker. Although cheerleaders and a student body the key lincbacking positions. he didn't show much promise experiencing a new concept in Speedy soph Clarence Ellis won during the spring, Eckman went seating arrangements-that of 
boys and girls together. This may not help Joe Thcismann scramble any better or Mike McCoy catch Dave Shelbourne, but it ought to stop the cries of "Go back, Go back, Go back across the road." 
any black & white or color photo 8" x 1o·· (no negatrves) and the · · cut from any 15v,nolme or staple refill package Poster-ll!art P. 0 Box 165, . I I . Enclose cash, (no C.O.D.'s) in 
.00 for each blow-up; blow-up and frame as shown. tax where applicable. Original 
returned undamaged. Satisfac· guaranteed. Allow 30 days for delivery . 

The world"s largest sell me stapler yet no larp,er than a pack of gum. ONLY 98¢ with 1000 FREE staples! 
~ ·-......,.... , THE GREAT NEWi .\-1 SWINGLINE
'-·-_/' cuB®HAND & 

• • • -OfSK STAPLERS I ~ ONLY $1.69 each. 1 ·,. ·I W1th 1000 staples 
~~.:-'_1 1 only $1.98 each. 
Hopes of a Wildcat upset tomorrow rest on the arm of junior 
c:>~.• 

~~ INC.
quarterback Dave Shelbourne. 
J2.eD SAilUI.vt IIV(JW(, LOJIKISI.MD ClfY. fl' 11101 

Can't afford a party? 
Want to meet someone new? 
go to 

Stepan Center 
MIXER 

TONIGHT 
guys $1.00 girls SOC 
~­

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1969 PAGE 3 
________ _______1118 OB_l.~fiER. ________ _ 

Academic Council decides to retain ROTC 
by Clifr Wintrode 
At its last meeting of the 6 H-69 academh.: year, Notre Dame's Academic Council voted overwhelmingly to retain the University's affiliation with the three ROTC' programs now on 
campus. 
Jlowcvcr the council, which is 
Notre Dame's major academic 
policy-making body, passed six 
resolutions regulating ROTC's 
role in the academic struct urc of 
the university. 
The first resolution passed by 
the Council left the 
determination of academic 
credit for ROTC offerings in the 
hands of the deans of the 
individual Colleges, as is 
presently the case for other 
courses. 
The decisions of the deans arc 
tempered by the decisions of 
that dean's College Council. 
Although the deans are not 
bound to follow the wishes of 
their College Council, it is a very 
rare circumstance when they do 
not. 
The three departments of 
military science arc part of thl' 
College of Arts and Letters. The 
College of Arts and Letters will 
give credit for the "upper 
division" phase of ROTC' classes. 
The College of Business 
Administration's policy is to 
grant credit in the third and 
fourth years up to a maximum 
of twelve hours. 
A maximum of nine credits is 
a II owed by the College of 
Science, but each department is 
free to set its own requirements. 
For instance, the Biology 
department accepts no credit for 
ROTC. 
The College of 1-:ngineering is 
wherever feasible, ot other 
University courses." 
Dean Waddick, Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, said that the courses switched would be "the more academic courses rather than the professional courses." The academic courses arc generally in the history and government areas. 
Waddick offered three reasons 
for this change. 
"The course would fit better 
in the academic structure of the 
university," he said. "It would 
be highly objective, and there is 
a duplication of the military 
department's offerings and 
university offerings," he added. 
Dean Plunkett, Director of 
Military Affairs, cited another 
reason. 
"The technical, instead of the 
professional courses, should 
more properly he taught by 
professional personnel trained in 
that area." Plunkett commented, 
"They might better he taught by 
men in our department who 
have such cxpcrtisl'." 
No changes will take place 
this semester because the 
Academic Council's ruling came 
after course selections for this 
semester had already been 
determined. 
Dean Plunkett thought some changes would be possible in the second semester hut he added that "academic units of the university will start to move this year" and some course substitutions will be accepted for the following year. 
The Academic Council's third 
resolution stressed the necessity 
of prior approval by appropriate 
university academic authorities 
of appointments of military 
teaching personnel. 
The process by which a military officer is accepted to be an instructor has been amended this year. Plunkett stated that the reason this was done was to "keep it more in line with the practice in other departments." 
Presently, a service nominates an offico.:r to be an instructor. 
rhe faculty committee of that service screens the candidate's record and passes along its approval or disapproval to the dean of the College of Arts and Ll't tcrs. 
The dean, after studying the man's LJUalifications, passes along the nomination with his approval or disapproval to Father John Walsh, Vice-President for Academic Affairs, who makes the final decision on the nominee's acceptance. 
T h c fourth · resolution interpreted the University's faculty manual to mean that military teaching personnel have "Non-tenurahle" status on the teaching and research faculty. which means that time spent in this status cannot be applied toward tenure. 
This resolution is a reaffirmation of past policy. The question has not been raised in the past because the military has avoided assigning an officer to be an instructor on his last assignment before retirement. Also, a military instructor is at the University too short a time to actruire any tenure even if he could be granted it. 
The fifth resolution asked responsible military and gov­ern mental officials to develop 

procedures for separation from 
ROTC units, without military or 
academic penalty, for students 
"who demonstrate a serious 
personal reason for separation." 
In the academic regulations of the university, a student who withdraws from a ROTC scholarship agreement in his junior or senior year would be subject to immediate callup in the reserves as an enlisted man. Dean Plunkett said it had never been imposed until last year. 
The student who was called up at the end of the year was in Navy ROTC' and had failed to give ''any satisfactory reason" for wanting out. Plunkett said the services will release a student if he provides a "very good reason." 
Plunkett described a "very good reason" as "a complete change in a boy's attituue toward war, a conscientious objector." 
The sixth resolution recommended that the University re-examine its contractual obligations with the Depart m cnt of Defense. It suggested that aspects of military training more appropriate to military installations be transferred to summer l'amps. 
Dean Plunkett said the 
university's contract with the 
armed service can he 
terminated by l'ithcr party with 
a years notice but that the 
contracts are continuous unless 
either party demands that the 
contract be broken or requests 
changes in the contract." 
"Every kind of military act of physical training type should be done at summer camps or cruises whc~e these arc appropriate," he contmued. "Most of the drilling might be done best at summer 
camp." 


COMMUNITY NEWSTAND 
121 W. WASHINGTON SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46601 PH-234-0088 NOVELTIES-CARDS-BOOKS & MAGAZINES 
PSYCIIEDI:"UC U11:"S CANDLES POSTERS 
UNDERGROUND PAI'I:RS 
We also have Books 

17 NOTRE DAME 4:15P.M.& 8:15P.M. 
undergoing a change in the required program for an engineering degree, so a final decision has not been made on accreditation. Jlowever, the present rule is six hours of credit. 
None of the four colleges gives credit for drill or related military maneuvers. 
The second resolution urged that the military departments move "with all possible speed toward the substitution. 
WElCOME FRESHMEN! AND OlD TIMERS! 
N.D. Barbershop Hrs. 8:00 
a.m. to 4:45 Sat. 8:00a.m. to 
11:45 Open 5Yz days a week Serving N.D. men over 100 years. 
NOTICE 

PARTTIME EMPLOYMENT 
KEYSTONE CORPORATION 
LARGHST MANUFACTURER OF MOV/1:' h'QUIPMENT 
NEEDS MEN 
Call: 289-3662 

NO TRANSPORTATION NECESSARY 
THE MOST EXCITING GATHERING OF INTERNATIONALLY ACCLAIMED Cl RCUS PERFORMERS IN THE 99 YEAR HISTORY OF THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH!!! 
STUDENT REDUCTION SAVE $1.00 FOR 
4:15 SHOW ONlY TICKETS ON SAlE AT: 
ATHLETIC & CONVOCATION CENTER 9-5 INCLUDING NOON HOUR 
LL SEATS RESERVED 
All lOWER ARENA--------$4.50  Tickets will also be  on sale  
UPPER ARENA (SIDE)------$3.50  at Gates 8 3:15 pm  & 10 starting at & 7:15 pm  
UPPER ARENA (END)-·-···-$2.50  

Student Union Social Commission 
presents 

DIONNE WARWICK 
In concert with 

Woody Herman Saturday, September 20th 8:00 p.m. 
Athletic and Convocation Center Tickets $5, $4, $2 on sale TONIGHT in the Dining Halls 

PAGE 4 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1969 
THE OBSERVER 
Passing to carry Wildcat attack 
Bruce Hubbard will be missing from the Northwestern receiving ranks Saturday due to an injury. 
CHICAGO (UPO--­Northwestern got some bad news-last year's leading Wildcat pass catcher, split end Bruce Hubbard, will not play in the opening game against Notre Dame due to a head injury. 
Hubbard sustained 
minor head lacerations requiring several stitches when his car was hit by another vehicle Saturday 
night. Coach Alex Agase said Barry Pearson, a sophomore flankerback, will fill in for Hubbard ...nit the Irish. 


SENIORS & GRADS 
Alumni Club 
GRAND OPENING 
''Bring an SMC Honey'' 
WED 4-12 
Membership Available at the Door 
Gentlemen Must Be 21 
EVANSTON, ILL., September -That rarity on a Northwestern football squad ­depth -exists in at least one area for the 1969 Wildcats, and its presence will dictate the type of offense Northwestern will unveil in the opening game at Notre Dame, September 20. 
The depth is available in quality at the primary receiving positions, flankerback and split end, and, fortunately, is complemented by the passing skills needed to deliver the ball. 
"You've got to utilize what you do best-and passing and catching are the things we do best," said Coach Alex Agase. 
Agase's confidence in his receivers is based partly on p~ov­en performance and partly on exciting potential. The proven performers arc senior standouts, split end 13ruce Hubbard and flankcrback Ken Luxton. The potential is supplied by a pair of sophomores who arc challenging the veterans for the starting jobs, 
Hawks, farm club •
1n ACC 
Ice hockey comes early to the 
Notre Dame campus this year as 
the Chicago Black Hawks take 
on their Dallas farm club Sunday 
night in the Convo Center. 
Dallas won the Central Hockey 
League championship last year. 
The exhibition will be the 
third of the season for the Black 
Hawks, who arc rumored to be 
split by ill-feeling between 
players and rna nagcmcnt. Center 
Ice meeting 
Varsity hockey coach Lefty Smith has announced that registration meeting will be held this Thursday night at 9:00 for all those interested in trying out for varsity hockey this year. The meeting will be held inside Gate 3 of the Convo Center. Off-icc conditioning and some skating will be in on Monday, Sept. 22. 
split end Jerry Brown and flankerback Barry Pearson. 
Hubbard, tallest man on the squad at 6-6, led the team in receiving lasy year with 33 receptions for 551 yards. His two-year total (49 catches for 782 yards) puts him within range of school career records for total receptions, (88, Cas Banaszck) and total yards (I ,239, Joe Collier). 
Luxton lasy year caught 13 passes for 202 yards as a running back, despite missing almost half the season with a kidney injury. Throughout early drills he matched spectacular receptions with Hubbard, who has built a reputation for the diving circus catch. 
Responsible for the solid improvement of the veterans has been the steady pressure exerted by the newcomers. Brown, who is seven inches shorter than Hubbard, compensates with fluid moves and the best speed of a Wildcat receiver in recent years. In a freshman game 
-

Controversial Chicago Black Hawk center Pit Martin is scheduled to play Sunday night in the Convo. 
against Purdue, he caught bombs 
of 65 and 60 yards. 
Pearson resembles Luxton in 
size and style. Agase has 
compared his moves and hands 
fav6rably with those of 1962 
Wildcat star, Paul Flatley, who 
went on to become the 
professional "rookie of the 
year" in 1963. Pearson caught 
l 9 passes for 327 yards in two 
freshman games. 
A fifth first-rate receiver is 
co-captain Pat Harrington, tight 
end, who last year had I 7 
receptions for 163 yards. 
Agase calls this quintet the finest group of receivers he has seen at Northwestern in 14 seasons. 
Regardless of who starts at split end and flankerback, the backup man figures to see an equal amount of action. As a result, the Wildcats can expect to have their top receivers comparatively fresh late in the game--a factor bound to put added pressure upon opposing secondaries. 

Pit Martin has publically blasted coach Billy Reay, general manager Tommy Ivan, team president Bill Wirtz, and all but four teammates for mismanagement and lack of hustle. Competition is expected to be fierce during the game since several Dallas players are currently fighting for places on the parent club's roster and are thus pitted against their former teammates. 
All reserved seats for the game have been sold out, but general admission tickets are on sale for $3.00 at the ACC ticket office. 




