
---------------------------------------------------, 
j 
How many women friends do you have? 
E 


OBSERVER 

THURSDAY, 1\!JARCH 27, 1969
VOL. Ill, No. 110 

Trevino named assistant 
by Glenn Corso 

Trevino also commented, "We. red.
Dennis Clark, the new 

arc cooperating with the out­Both men were reluctant toStudent Diredor, yesterday going commissioners and we discuss any definite plans theyannounced the appointment of want to learn from any mistakes had for the Union, since theyTito Trevino as Assistant Direc­
they have made over the past had not appointed any of their tor. year." commissioners. Clark did com­
"I am very pleased with my Clark and Trevino stated that ment on some improvements inappointment," Trevino said after 

they plan to have a financial SUAC.
he learned of Clark's announce­planning commission, which "Some of our lectures will bement. "I feel Denny and I can would review last year's Student on a seminar type basis, wework very well together." 
Union Budget, and learn where might even be able to bring itTrevino has been active in and how the deficit was incur-down to the hall level," he said.
student activities. The past year he was Assistnat Commissioner for the Student Union Academic Commission. lie also worked on 
Turnbull still leads 
the Sophomore Literary Festi­val. St. Mary's Student Body Pres­minds of many of the voters. Co mmc nting on Trevino's The totals were: 
i d c n tial candidate Susan Turnbull increased her lead over
appointment Clark remarked, Susan Turnbull 38 36.3% opponent Barbara Curtin in the
"Tito will be a very effective Barbara Curtin 19 20.0% assistant director. We plan to second OBSJ:'R VHR straw poll Undecided 38 43.7% although the number of unde­
cooperate very closely in the The individual classes were Union. We arc looking forward weighted according to the pro­
cided voters increased. 
to a very good year." portion of the student body in
It is significant that the poll
Commenting on the appoint­each class. That explains why
was conducted prior to last ml·nts of Student Union Com­identical vote totals for Susan
night's Open Forum, which saw missioners Clark said, "We will Turnbull and undecided result in
each of the candidates presentinterview all the people who different percentage totals. 
her platform to the entire St. 
applied for com missioner posi­The undecided voters in both
Mary's student body.tions. I hope to announce them the sophomore and fresh man 
The number of undecided 
over the wcckl•nd at the very classes both totalled in excess of
voters rose to a phenomenal
hrtl'SI." 50 per cent, a rise over Tues­
tot<rl of 43.7 per cent, an in­
Both llll'n stated quite expli­day's results. 
crc<rse of 2.5 per cent over Tues­
citly that they planned close Miss Curtin and Miss Turnbull
day's poll. Miss Curtin's totals cooperation with thl' outgoing polled identical amounts in the
dropped some six per cent com­Student Union offircrs. freshman, while Miss Turnbull
ared with her previous totals. ('lark said, "Wl· an· working carried the other three classes
However the un~rsually large
with till' previous Student Union handily.
number of undecided voters 
pl·opk to smooth over the trans­The OBSI:R VHR polled 95
makes a reasonably accurate ition. We wan! to learn from prediction of the race impos­St. Mary's students, slightly them. They haw lwcn very wil­more than Tuesday's 90. The
sible. The Open Forum is expec­lirw tc• hl'lp us." ted to resolve the issue in the election is slated for Friday. 
I 

Tim O'Meilia named editor-in-chief of the OBSERVER. The editorial board of the 
Holliday, also a junior, from 
OBSHR VER yesterday appoin­Kettering, Ohio, said, "Now that 
ted Associate Editor Timothy we have achieved daily publica­
O'Meilia to the post of Editor­tion, our aim will be to improve 
in-Chief. O'Meilia immediately our coverage, expand it, espec­
appointed managing editor Don ially in the area of St. Mary's 
Holliday to the post of execu­and to diversify into other 
tive editor. areas." 
The editorial board, com­Luking, a history major grad­posed of an equal number of uating in June, is the third editor students and faculty members, of the paper which was created including the OBSER VER 'S in November of 1966 following 
present editor-in-chief William the folding of the VOICE. The Luking, made the decision last ORSER VER began daily publi­night. cation this year under Luking's 
O'Meilia, a junior from Palm editorship. Bay, Fla., said, "I want to em­phasize the appointment of Hol­"The daily publication of the liday as executive editor. With paper this year has been an 
the tremendous growth of the almost heroic effort by a group paper into a daily, running the of people including present exec­OBSER VHR has become a two­utive editor Paul Schroeder, llol­man job. Don and I will be liday and O'Meilia," Luking said. working closely in further ex­"Schroeder has been especially pansion and improvement of the helpful in publishing the paper'' 
paper." 


This is the j(mrth of a five part series on 
coeducation at Notre Dame by Barry Breen and 
Jim PelliKrin. 

From an admissions point of view, /think it is obvious that Princeton would be more attractive to able boys if it were coedu ca tio nal. Having visited large numbers of secondary schools and interviewed hundreds of boys, I simply state it as a fact that able, sensitive boys take it for granted that they will sit in c:/ass with girls. Princeton loses one third of its admitted students to other colleges. These students are all too often the ver:v people we want most. There is no doubt whatsoever in my mind that coeducation is ver:v much a factor in their decision not to attend Princeton. 
Director ofAdmissions, Princeton 
Today's students not only prefer coeducation; they expect it and demand it as a necessary part of their educational experience. Fewer and fewer students arc willing to put up with sexual segregation as a necessary part of their life style. This new awareness on the part of students has some very disturbing implications with regard to university ad missions. 
As a result of its recent research in this area, Princeton realizes that it is in serious admissions trouble as a result of sexual segregation. Of the 425 men identified in 1968 as the "best" of Princeton's applicants, only 181 (43%) chose to enroll. On the basis of reply cards sent out to those applicants who declined enrollment once they were accepted, the biggest single complaint was "The lack of women students." Princeton lost 43% of its best applicants largely because of the absence of women students. Even more important in the long run, Princeton researchers conducting a survey of high school students discovered that 80'X, of the most gifted high school 
......~-~­



f;;~i\ 
0 0~ 
[) 
~ 

seniors believed that "the fact that a university has both men and women greatly increases its attractiveness." Able, sensitive high school students do indeed take it for granted that they will sit in class with members of the opposite sex. If a university cannot provide such an environment, they will go somewhere else to find 
it. But what about Notre Dame? In I968, out of 
2734 students who were accepted by Notre Dame, 
1550 students actually enrolled. That is, 43% of 
the students accepted by Notre Dame chose to 
enroll in other universities. Why? That is a 
question for our admissions department. 
When asked "How many good people do you think we arc losing because Notre Dame is all-male?," Mr. Joe Mulligan of Notre Dame's Admissions Department replied that no good answer could be given to this question, simply 
because Notre Dame docs not send out a questionnaire to those applicants who decide against coming to Notre Dame. The lack of a reply card system is a serious enough blunder on the part of the Admissions Department, but their apparent ignorance of the reasons why good students turn down Notre Dame is inexcusable. Nearly half of Notre Dame's accepted applicants enroll in other universities, and no-one has taken the trouble to find out if sexual segregation is a factor in their decision. 
But isn't it possible, or even probable in the light of admissions experience in similar institutions, that the biggest single reason why students decline enrollment at Notre Dame is "The Jack of women students?" Isn't it possible, or even probable, that each year Notre Dame loses a larger and larger percentage of its best applicants because it is not a coeducational institution? The fact is that more and more of the best high school seniors demand and expect coeducation. As long as Notre Dame excludes women from its community, it will 
(continued on page 4) 


THE OBSERVER. THURSDAY, MARCH 27, 1969
PAGE 2 

on the bench and on the fairways 
Plimpton recounts ad~entu~es 
"One docs survive these 

forays  into  where  one  should  
not  be."  This  statement  
explained  George  Plimpton's  

"personal magnitude," as one girl put it, that attracted a ncar capacity audience to Stepan last 
night to hear him speak. 
Plimpton, the fifth speaker of the Sophomore Literary Arts Festival, is the author of the national best sellers: Out of My !.eague, Bogey Man, and Paper Lion. 
Plimpton revealed that his first foray as a rank amateur into the world of sport occurred when he was a Harvard sophomore and was required to run in the Boston Marathon as an initiation stunt for joining the Harvard Lampoon. "I was allowed to enter I00 yards from 
W.C. Fields Is Coming! 


ATTENTION ALL GRADUATING STUDENTS 
MEASUREMENTS 
will be taken for 

COLLEGIAT CAPS and 

GOWNS 


TODAY 

March 27 

between 
9:00-4:00 
at the NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

the finish and I did just that, right behind the winner. The poor fellow had to put on a finishing kick." Plimpton was exposed in the press tent as an illegal contestant. 
George gleaned the experience from which he wrote Out of My !.eague from a brief pitching stint against the best hitters in baseball. After getting the first batter and Willie Mays out on pop-ups, he was promptly shelled for a "few doubles and triples ... and one of the longest home runs ever hit in Tiger Stadium." He headed for the showers in a state of shell shock. 
Bogey Man was written as a result of three pro-am golf tournaments he participated in. His most dreadful moment occurred when he was playing in the foursome ahead of Arnold Palmer. George, from an elevated tee had hit his drive fifty yards into a thicket of bushes and while he was looking for his ball, the other members 

"I'm sorrY. about your parade, sir. I guess I splashed ontoo much after shave:'?~ 
~~ 

~-~ ~~0;::) ) RoTcl jtf~_), 
;y/~4 4~~~~ 




p/\. -J/Gfj;J/% 
1 1/~Jlc'
v-"tf~~~ 
\'--~~ 
,......_( < 
/


I {'~1 !\
L ~/ .('-'



'll~ 
i{~ 

I\~ 
Even the might of the military can't protect you if you're not careful how you use Hai Karate® After Shave and Cologne. One whiff and females get that "make love not war" look in their eyes. So to maintain military discipline and keep your uniform intact, we put instructions on self-defense in every package. Just in case it comes down to hand-to-hand combat. 
Hai Karate-be careful how you use it. 
(1)1969, Leeming Division. Chas. Pfizer & Co., Inc., New York, N.Y. 
of his foursome contmued down the fairway and Arnie stepped to the tee. 
Plimpton shouted up at him to stop and Arnie peered down at him with the "look of a businessman sitting at his desk with the odd feeling that' something has moved in the bottom of his wastepaper basket." Arnie allowed him to hit. 
Paper Lion, the book that catapaulted him to national fame was based on his stay in the Detroit Lions training camp. George's game time consisted of five plays in which he drove his team from their own twenty to their own five. The epitome of his ineptness occurred when he was dropping back to pass and fell down without a hand being laid on him. 
Future books include one relating his experiences playing pro basketball (which he has done with the Celtics) and pro hockey ("I can't skate. The only position I could try is goalie." 
THESMC ENGLISH DEPT. POETRY SERIES 
presents such noted poets as 
John Bnr)man Ned O'Gorman Helen Chasin and TONIGHT 
Howard McCord will give a recital in the LITTLE THEATER at 6:30pm 

*These lectures are presented at no cost to the student 





1/P'\
\o 
'-o 
~ 

/& ~ 
/\ __/ 
['I 
on the campus... thurs., march 27 
Basketball banquet Seminar on motivation 
Ray Meyer, head coach at A one-day seminar on the DePaul the past 25 seasons and hiring, training and motivating Notre Dame cage captain of the disadvantaged will be held 
1936-38, will be the featured today in the Center for 
speaker today at the annual Continuing Education, under the Irish basketball banquet in the sponsorship of the Michil!na Monogram Room of the Convo Chapter of the American Society Center. for Training Development. 
Poetry reading Trip is on 
St. Mary's English Depart­Brian Moore, Chairman of the ment, under the direction of Mr. New Jersey Club European trip, Randall Ackley, will present a has announced that the club's poetry reading by Howard quota for the trip of 50 students McCord, today at 6: 30 p.m. has been filled and that the trip in the Little Theater. is definitely on. 
SMC holds open forum 
by Carol White 

An underflowing crowd of 25 interested students discussed campaign issues with five student government candidates in St. Mary's coffeehouse last night. Open forum questions were directed promarily at the two presidential candidates. 
Responses however flowed freely from the other uncontested office seekers: future Vice President, Academic Affairs Commissioner, and Student Affairs Council representative, Beth Driscoll, Pam Carey, and Karen Weller. 
Basically the two candidates demonstrated little difference in their presidential objectives. Two areas of importance would take priority with Miss Turnbull: 
I) Greater flexibility in academic affairs, meaning more liberal ~~ntrance requirements, greater personal decision in curriculum, and more student influence in academic councils. 
2) Completion of community government. "Presently", Sue said, "the term community government is hypocritical and should no longer be discussed. Students deserve and should demand authority to make decisions which affect their lives. 
Miss Curtin stated that the 
difference in her platform would 
be mainly in emphasis. 

One area of significant 
difference bet ween the two 
candidates concerned the 
autonomy of SMC. 

To the hvpothetical question of a co-ed Notre Dame, Miss Curtin stated that regardless of Notre Dame's future, St. Mary's would retain its identity. Miss Turnbull saw a dim future for SMC in the event of Notre Dame gaining girls, "I'm afraid we'd become a third-rate school," she 
said. 

Miss Driscoll disagreed, claiming that St. Mary's has much to offer as an independent institution. "We're small she said, that's what makes us special. At SMC there's a rapport in student-faculty and student-student relations that is lost in a larger institution." 
An interesting idea came from Miss Cary who proposed that Notre Dame and St. Mary's set up a yearly resident exchange program. 
Both the presidential candidates are in favor of diversifying the SMC student body by accepting girls of varying social, economic, and racial backgrounds. 
Tuition, increased living expenses, demonstrations, and off-campus housing were other areas of agreement. 
Off-campus 

regulations 

Father James Riehle C.S.C. 
Dean of Students, announced in 
a directive yesterday that there 
will no longer be a grade point 
cut-off forcing students to live 
off campus. 

An administrative official said 
that the cut-off was dropped 
becausy the new dormitories will 
be able to accomodate all pres­
ent off-campus students if they 
wish to live on campus. 

Present juniors will still be 
permitted to reside off-campus. 
Those sophomores who wish to 
live off campus will be allowed 
to continue providing they have 
a letter of parental permission. 
All present freshmen and the 
incoming freshmen will be re­
quired to remain on campus. 
The only exceptions are married 
students or those who live with 
their families in the South Bend 
area. 


THURSDAY, MARCH 27, 1969 THE OBSERVER. 
PAGE 3 

·THE WORLD Tb.DAY
.. 

Nixon requests surcharge extension 
WASHINGTON (lll'l) President Nixon asked Congress yesterday 
to extend for at least a year the I 0 per cent income tax surcharge. 
lie also promised to submit tax reform proposals by next month, 
and the White House said he was considering asking for increased 
social security benefits. 

Congressional leaders expressed support for continuation of the 
surtax past its scheduled June 30 expiration date, hut some said any 
such action should he coupled with a cut in spending. 
"Taken together," Nixon said in a message to Congress, the surtax 
and his forthcoming tax reform proposals "will produce the strong 
budget urgently needed to meet the inflationary threat." 
The President also asked for wntinuation of the I0 per cent federal excise tax on telephone calls and the 7 per cent excise levy on automobile sales-both of which are scheduled to expire June 30. 

VC put off decision on direct talks 
PARIS (UPI) Apparently resitant Viet Cong negotiators Wednesday put off for 24 hours their critical decision on whether to accept the Saigon government's offer to hold direct, secret peace talks with the National Liberation Front. 
The Viet Cong, believed torn between a conciliatory and a hard 
line, announced it would wait until Thursday to disclose its decision 
on South Vietnam President Nguyen Van Thieu's surprise offer to 
hold private negotiations with the N LF in Paris. 
Viet Cong officials in Paris had said earlier a decision would be 
announced Wednesday. But a spokesman for the NLF, The Viet 
Cong's executive branch, said later his delegation would wait until 
after the formal Vietnam peace conference session to be held 
Thrusday morning, to make known its stand. 

Ike remains in critical condition 
WASIIJN(;T()N (UPI) Former President Dwight D. l~isenhowcr 
remained in "critical" condition at Walter Reed Army Medical 
Center yestnday while doctors worked to reverse the heart ailment 
that threatens his life. 

In a brief 111id-morning medical bulletin. the doctors said that 
"evidcnn· of l·ongestive hL·art failure persist despite the fact that all 
appropriall' thcrap~:utic mcasurL'S arc b~:ing utilized." 
Tlw inability of the 7H y~:ar old hscnhow~:r's heart to pump l'nough blood to giv~: his body an adequate oxygen supply was discoVL'red Mardi IS. Since then. his doctors at Walter Reed apparL·ntly have heL'n unable to reverse the condition. 
The hulh:tin said l·.iscnhcwcr "slrpt comfortably through most of 
tlw night" and continued to enjoy brief visits by members of his 
family. 

Pilot recommends Cuban agreement 
I>AL.LAS (UI'I) The pilot of a Della Air Lines DC8 jet which Tuesday was hijacked to Cuba said Wednesday it may take a hija~.:kcr return agreement between the United States and Cuba to stop snch seizures. 
The jet, carrying 114 passengers and crew, landed in Dallas at 
I I: IS a.m. Wednesday after a brief stopover in Miami on its return from Havana. l'assengers were rerouted to their destinations on other flights. 
"I don't have any idea what to do about prevention of future hijackings, but possibly if the government could read! an agreement with Cuba to return the hijackers it would stop," said Capt. William Wood. the Della pilot. 

18 Jordanians killed in Israeli attack 
(UPI) -Israeli jets attacked Jordan yesterday in a raid that Jordanian spokesmen said killed 18 civilians and wounded 25. Jordan requested the first U.N. Security Council meeting on Israeli attacks since the one that wndemned the Beirut airport attack last December. 
The AI Fatah Arab guerrilla organization threatened reprisals against Israeli civilians for Wednesday's raid. Israel wn~.:eded its planes had streaked into Jordan but said they attacked a ~.:ommando camp and not a civilian center. 
At the United Nations, Jordanian Ambassador Muhammad H. EI Farra formally requested urgent Security Council consideration of "continuous and grave Israeli violations" of the Middle Fast. ceasl·firc. Sewrity Council President Karoly Csatorday of Hungary began consultations with council members on the date for the 

ATTENTION SENIORS COMMONWEALTH COLLEGE BUILDER COSTS LESS! 
If you have not turned 22 before Jan. 1, 1969, here is what you would 
pay for our COLLEGE BUILDER PLAN: 
10,000 Life Paid up at 65 $13.41/mo. 15,000 Life Paid up at 65 $19.56/mo. 
Included in that price you hlllle the following benefits: Accidental death . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...3 t1mes face amount Travel death ..•...................4 times face amount Loss of one limb .......................Y, face amount Loss of two limbs ...........face amount (waiver of premium) Loss of eyesight ............ face amount (waiver of premium) Return of all premiums if death occurs in first 20 years of policy 
Full Military C01waxe  COMPARE before you buy  
Deferred Premiums  contact: KEN EVERETT  
Plus other benefits  287-8891  

Clarification 
Editor: 

am writing to clarify what seems to he a point of some confusion on the St. Mary's cam­pus regarding my position on the student government presidential race. Unfortunately, this confu­sion was furthered by the edi­torial which appeared in the March 21st issue of the SCHO­LASTIC. 
Let me emphasize first that I originally had no intention of publidy supporting or endorsing either candidate. I am a candi­date for the vice-presidency and am not campaigning for a Presi­dential candidate. However, un­
fortunately, rumor now has it that I am supporting Susan Turnbull. I must say that this is absolutely false. Susan Turnbull is definitely a qualified candi­date with whom I'm sure I could work quite well. llowcvcr, if any voter chooses to consider which candidate I consider better q uali­fied, with whi~.:h candidate I could better work, or which candidate I would more soundly support, that candidate is Bar­
bara Curtin. 
Beth Driscoll 

Tasteless ad? Editor: One would think that after your recent tour de force in "journalistic responsibility" (i.e., 
rejecting one of the more potent Vaciline ads), nothing approach­ing the hard-core pronography of the "Molly's Blooming Iris" of the Rcvlon Eyelashes adver­tisement would besmirch the august pages of the Observer. But on March 26 we were con­fronted with a tasteless and high­ly offensive corruption of a passage from Joyce's U/vsses (ironically, itself once bann-ed as "pornography"). 
But in all fairness we should consider whether the piece has "redeeming social value." The Madison Avenue man plays first to the male: drool over the woman's body and buy the car behind her; don't love your woman, buy the womb on 
wheels, climb inside and drive it. Timothy J. MacCarry 







_____, 
•auto o il'
leurop.!! ;NI
I STUDENT/FACULTV GRANT Program 
I

Special rates in European overseas travel . 
for purchase, lease, & rental of cars. For : 
details and brochure write: University ~ 
Grant Dept., Auto Europe, 1270 Second : 
e, New York, New York 10021. 
With good reason did 
h e y once han the likes of U~vsses, and now Flaminx Cre­atures for the stakes arc higher: if Notre Dame men could under­stand their sexuality, where would we get the energy to fuel our pep rallies, the drive for the that crucial touchdown, or the perverted desire which substi­tutes a ROTC gun, posture and attitude for the honest usc of phallus, postilion, and love. 
But the women have been left out. If the ads show a shinier car with more tailpipes and softer cushions, what male could he inter::sted in an honest and na­tural female, herself long-oppres­sed by repressive education and mass culture? 
_.:.__:PA~G=E--...:4______________ ___Z_:_'HE OBSERVER. THURSDAY, MARCH 27, 1969 
Co-education: It's just being together 
(continued from page I} exclude these top students along say that this sort of reasoning is in, and opportunities working together toward a coeducational environment 
with them. By stalling and wav­for, such activities as common goal. But the number would allow men and women to
a perfect example of the 1 wisted 
ering on the issue of coeduca­the theatre, music, of men who are able to share a great deal more with
state of mind produced by a 
tion, Notre Dame is working a painting, sculpture and participate in such activities each other than their sex. In a
sexually segregated environment. 
great deal of harm on its present the dance. This is makes up a ridiculously small coeducational environment, men
Anyone who screams "fornica­
community. But in the long run, important because one percentage of Notre Dame's and women could be friends. 
tion" every time the word 
a single-sex Notre Dame is of the characteristics of total enrollerntn. The vast Ask yourself one question:
"woman" is mentioned very
doomed first to mediocrity and the 'Present undergradu­majority of Notre Dame How many women friends do I
clearly views women as sexual 
finally to a well-deserved extin­ate body is a certain students have nothing to fall have at Notre Dame? If you
objects, and not as whole human 
ction. "roughness" or "tough­back on but juvenile answer it honestly, you will have 
beings. Regardless of what it 
But that is enough of the ness" (unfriendly critics muscularity. some idea of what this place is
leads to in a sick fantasy world,
negative side of things. By this have said "juvenile mus­The point is that _!! doing to you.
being together leads to friend­
time it is clear to most of us that cularity"} a series of
ship in the real world. 
sexual segregation is sicknes.<> mannerisms or ways of
The presence of women 
that infects all of us, a sickness O{Jerating typically
, would also be a great help to
that will kill Notre Dame if it is associated with a mas­
Notre Dame's flagging cultural 
not eliminated. But what kind of culine society. 
life. As the Princeton Report
place would this be if Notre This criticism speaks directly
points out: Dame were really and internally to the present Notre Dame com­
On the cultural side,

coeducational? What kind of munity. A small number of 
the presence of women

lives would Notre Dame students Notre Dame students do 
could be expected to

lead in a coeducational environ­participate in activities which ment? stimulate more interest involve both men and women The Princeton Report pro­vides a good picture of certain 
key aspects of coeducational life: 
Arrangements for hous­ing and social facilities should be such that a great many opportuni­ties are easily available for cultural and social contacts which are not oriented toward "pair­ing off" The easy, fre­quent and diversified contacts-eating toge­ther, listening to music, participating in drama­tic performances, engaging in discussion groups, studying toge­ther encouraged by such an arrangement take the form of small group, rather than two­
by-two, activity. The apparent consequence is less "dating" than would otherwise be the case as well as "a partial moratorium on sex," while, at the same time, men and women see a great deal of one ano­ther in a wide variety of rewarding ways. 

Such a coedicational environ­ment would obviously break down the object-to-object rela­tionship between men and women which now exists at Notre Dame. In such an environ­ment, women could function as whole human beings rather than sexual objects. A greater range of non-sexual relationships be­tween men and women would be possible. In short, men and womln could be friends and not simply complimentary sexual objects. 


Eating together in the dining 
Go to your bookstore. Find the Scripto display. Fill in a Mystery Tour entry blank halls, studying together, perfor­
with a Scripto pen or pencil. Ifyou win, you win the most magical, musical, electrical, mystery ming together, working together 
tour ever put together. on common projects, living toge­
Fly to London in july. Spend a week digging England. Then fly to Paris to join ther, discussing things toge­
the bus that will take you touring discotheques, beaches, boutiques, galleries and castles ther -just being together--that is 
all over Europe.vrhat it means to be someone's 
College students only. A bus load of people will win a coed tour of Europe, like it's never 
friend. 

been toured before. 4 weeks in Europe's grooviest cities. Bistros by night. Beaches by day.
Ot course, someone is gomg Wined and dined by Scripta. 
to pipe up: "And what does ali 
Join the Scripta Mystery Tour. Any Scripto writing instrument is your magic wand. 
this 'being together' lead to? It leads to promiscuity, that's what. Being together leads to 
s~ GROOVY PENS AND PENCILS 
sleeping together." Suffice it to 
ALSO-With Each Purchase of a Notre Dame Students 
Scrip to Pen-You Will for Kennedy '72 
Receive a Free Chance on BUTTONS 
a POLAROID SWINGER 
Send a Stamped Self­Addressed Envelope to: 

Available at: NOTRE DAME HAMMES BOOKSTORE
Jack Gillis 
130 Stanford Hall 

The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Oame and St. Mary's 
'63 Chevy 

College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11~.-Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind., 
For Sale 
call 284-4032 

46:>56. 




