Campus prepares for Mora~~rc~h~l~•geJ 

Moratorium events begin 
fully he provided for all students
by Jim Prisby interested in supporting the to pca~:c and non-violence. By 

The student leaders of the walk-out. the act of civil disobedience of move to support the Moratorium After the rally, the students turning in draft ~:ards, whi~:h will at Notre Dame today outlined a will mart:h on to the courthouse, then be torn up with the help of 
where there will be a reading of

full schedule of events due to women, the participants will sig­the list of the Vietnam war dead
hegin this evening. The purpose nify their non-cooperation with from St. Joseph's County. Prom­
of tne Moratorium is to provoke k i\ling and with the Ia w which discussion and expression of inent South Bend businessmen, upholds it. lawyers, lahor leaders and
views not only among ND stu­The students and fa~:ulty dents, but with the South Bend churchmen arc also expected to members will then offer a state­community as well. speak at the courthouse. ment of life at the altar in place Tonight at 8:30, David Del­At II :00 tomorrow morning of the way of death left behind at Notre Dame a tea~:h-in will he with the draft cards. /\t the
linger will he speaking on "From Protest to Resistance" at the staged at the Statue of Jesus in conclusion of the Mass the torn­
Continuing hlucation Center. front of the Administration Buil­up cards will be mailed with the 
There will he an open discussion ding. statement of life to the Attorney After the teach-in another
after the speech in which the General in Washington, to in­rally will take place on the main
audience will be invited to ex­form him of the act of civil press their views. quad. The main speakers will he disobcdien~:c and the formation Later tonight, tht: Pente­Mil:hacl Cullen, from the Mil­of the Notre Dame Resistance. 
costals are holding a "Vigil for waukee Fourteen, David Darst At 5:00 I'M and 9:00PM on Peace" at Sa~:red Heart Chur~:h. of tht! Catonsville N int!, and En­Wednesday, the movie, "A 
It is scheduled to hcgin at I I: 30 glish Archbishop T. D. Roberts. Plague on Your Children", will and will wntinue all night until A number of faculty and stu­be shown in the Engineering 
7:30 AM tomorrow. dents from Notre Dame and St. Auditorium. At 7:30, Mi~:hacl Mary's are also ~;:xpccted to
Wednesday morning will bring Cullen and David Darst arc speak.

the South Bend high school stu­speaking on "Non-Violent Resis­dents into adion. Adams High The rally will then continue tance: Dialogue of the Day." School and possibly some others to the ROTC Building in the St. Mary's will also be taking Archbishop T.D. Roberts spoke last evening in the Engineering in South Bend will stage a walk­form of a "Silent Pea~:e Walk", part in the Moratorium with an Auditorium on the subject of man, conscience, and the Vietnam out at 8:15 and mar~:h to Ho­in mourning for all the Notre informal dis~:ussion from 9:30 to War. 
Dame students killed in Viet-12:00 noon Wednesday at the

ward Park, on Jefferson Avenue, where a teach-in will he held at nam. SMC Coffeehouse. The topics 
Cleric calls conscience
As the march continut•s, will be Mi~:hael Novak's "Ten crosses with the names of NO's Points for Peace" and "Women's 

approximately I0:30. Currently, 
Adams is the only high s~:hool war casualties will be planted in Role in Vietnam Protest."
which has organized itself well 
supreme law of man 
the field across from the ROTC The Observer has also learned

enough to be sure of a walk-out. The plans were completed at a Building. that five parishes in South Bend by Mark Walbran "Su~:h conscription laws,"
Mcinerney also said, "As the

meeting held Sunday. are having Masses, vigil services "The supreme law of man is said the Archbishop, "have given
march turns away from the · f

Once at Howard Park, the or prayer serVIces or peace on his conscien~:e," stated Ar~:h-Britain an important lead, and as
ROTC Building, the black ban-d

students will hrcak up into small Wcdnes ay. bishop T.D. Roberts in presen-an Englishman I'm proud to say 
ners will go down and bright f · 1 Ch · 

discussion groups. Notre Dame The ive pans 1es are: . nst ling his position on Christian so., 
ones will go up, symbolizing a h K" 8 30 AM L. 1

students interested in taking part t e mg, : ; Itt e Pacifism before a large crowd in Similar conscription laws, the 
turning from death towards life, Fl 8 00 AM d 5 30 PM

in this rally will assemble at the ower, : an : ; the Engineering Auditorium last Ar~:hbishop noted, arc in effect
which is the Resistance Mass."

Cirde at 8:00 tomorrow mor­Holy Cross at 6:30 AM, 8:15 night in connection with the in other Protestant countries,
A "Resistance Mass", at p 0

ning. Transp_ortation will hope-AM and 5: 15 M with a 2:0 Vietnam Moratorium. notably S}veden and the Nether­

The SLC yesterday passed a resolution asking profes­sors to excuse absences of students participating in the Vietnam Moratorium tomorrow. The resolution encourages professors to allow students to make up any tests given. For more details, see the SLC story on page 2 and further Moratorium items on page 3. 
which draft cards will he turned PM service for the school chil-Presently Ar•·I1b1·shop Roberts lands. lie ~ddcd that no Catholic

in and a statement of life offered ~ wun tries fully ac~:cpt ~:onsden­
dren; St. Joseph's at 7:00 AM, 1·s· leader of Pax and an a··tt·vc
in their place, will then take ~ tious objection.
pla~:e as the mar~:h reaches the 8:00 AM, and 5:30 PM; and St. member of AmnestY lntcrna­1\ugustine's at 7:30PM. tiona),· hoth arc or_ganizations
mall between the library and the Some governments, sud1 as sta( 1um. IS WI c at approxl-the United States. which do al­
I. Th. ·11 b · Tim Ma~:Carry • organizer of dedt"cated to safegttard1"ng lllttllan 
the Church affairs stated, "The rl·gllts.
matcly 3:30, and the Mass will low ~:onscicntious objection, the idea is to have as many Notre Speak1·ng on Cons··1·en··e an·'
bc con-ccIebratetI by Ar~: hb1s. hop ~ ~ u Archbishop explained, dc~:ide Dame students present at these Modern War, •r··hb1"sllop Ro-
Roberts and a group of Notre " ~ themselves the moral issue in­
, . Th scrvi~:cs as possible. Where per-bcrts trac"d the hl"story of COil-volved. lie added:
Darne and St. Mary s pnests. c ~ homily will be delivered by mitted, we would like to have scription in Britain from the first "And that principle I can'1. Father Burrell. some students distributing leaf-World War and explained its accept at all." At the Offertory of the Mass, lets and engaging in informal provision for sele~:tivc wns~:ien-
The Ar~:hbishop spoke about 

a group of Notre Dame and St. discussions on the sidewalk tious objedors. those opposed 
Amnesty International, his 

Mary's students and faculty afterwards." to a parti~:ular war. He said this 
"favorite hobby horse." The or­

M n~:Carry ~:ontinued, "Be-pr<)VISion wasn't abttsed anti
members will come to the altar ganization dispatches Ia wyers to 
cause of the poor relations be-r1·ghtl·ng for "the war to end all
to make an offering of their lives (C' · prote~:t the human rights of
ontmued on page 2) " r d 
people throughout the world whose rights arc jeopardized. As



Black Collegiate Women planw'rnpor'Ogram 
laws vary in different wuntries, he explained, the lawyers usc the United Nations' Declaration ofstudents, after whit:h the mem­freshmen with Father McGrath, understands the problem of the Human Rights as their basis for

!"he newly formed Associa­bership committee will hold an
a lecture by Mrs. Mahen Herring black student, 4) is willing to defense.

tion for Bla~:k Collegiate Women interview with the individual.
on the role of ~he black woman, take an oath of confidence, 5) at St. Mary's may he described Another of the Assodation's
and a meeting at which they has had experience living and The organi1.ation aims to pro­concisely as an organized effort goals is to promote and improve
were invited to join the new w0rking with this minority ted people under communist, to hring the bla~:k student into a communication between the fascist and "other" governments.
organization. group, 6) has a~:quaintancc witi1doser relationship with the Another innovation originated the history of the black people, black women of St. Mary's and The United States, he said, is 
school's academic, cultural, and I he bla~:k students of other indudcd in this "other" cate­
by Mr. Joyner's Office of Inter­and 7) can provide documenta­social community. cultural Development is the s~:hools. So far the org:.111iza tion gory be~:ausc its poli~:y of forced
tion for any of the above cri­

Guided by Mr. Lemuel Joy­has established a limited cooper­
Adoption program. With its help teria. wnsniption whkh is ~:ontrary ner, the black upperclassmen ation with Southwestern Mi~o:hi­to "natural rights, Christian
ea~:h of the twenty-seven black 

have worked to solidify its loose The me mbcrship requiremt! nts gan in Dowagia~: and with the rights and U.N. rights."
students has been adopted by a 

organization of last year into a arc not for discriminatory pur­Afro-Ameri~:an Society of Notre
black family in the South Bend­

cohesive and a~:tive structure for poses but arc set up to discour­Dame with whom it has a joint During the question and 
Mishawaka-Niles community. 

age any person from jumping on answer session following the lec­
now and the future. diredory. It is hoped this pro­
According to their Constitu­

"a popular bandwagon" when ture, the Archbishop was asked
It started early in September gram will cnahlc the hla~:k stu­
tion, membership is open to any 

joining the Association. Interest what the distindion was be­
with freshman orientation. By dents to share a~:ademit: and
St. Mary's woman who I) is 

in this organit.ation should be t ween past wars and modern
running parallel to the regular social expcricn~:es relevant to
aware of the nature of the asso­

expressed to any of its present wars. 
program, the Association held a their situation in the wllege
ciation, 2) wants to perpetuate 
(ContillUI'U on JIUKC' 2)

reception for the fourteen black members, all SL. Mary's hlack ~:ommunity.
the growth of the association, 2) 

PAGE 2 THE OBSERfJER TUESDAY OCTOBER 14, 1969 

moratorium is not that we sim­ply skip classes or get together with those that agree with us, but that we also go out and work for peace in the local 
community, in places like the churches., 
PAGE 3

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1969 THE OBSERVM 


Moratorium: Key 
'l'h d M II b 1
Rev. co ore . es urg 1,

' f ­
resident o Notre Dame, has 
· d t't' h' h 11
s1gne a pe 1 ton w 1c ca son 
!'resident Nixon for a "stepped­up timetable" for withdrawing from Vietnam. 
The presidt:nts of 78 other privale collt:ges and universities also signed the petition, inclu­ding those of Princeton, Swath-more and Massachusetts lnsti­lute of Technology· 
"We believe this to be in our country's highest interest, at home and abroad," the prcsi­uents said, noting that they S"eak "as individuals who work '
~ 
with young men and women." 
The statement, released from f'l·nnsylvania, was mailed to Mr. Nixon and congressional leaders. It declared that the "accumu­lated costs" of the Vietnam ~.:on­
Oi~.:t went beyond men and 
material to its "effects on young people's hopes and beliefs." "Like ourselves the vast ma­· ·t f h d · h
.JOfl Y o t e stu ents wtt whom we work still want to 
15, I lJ6lJ, so that the important issue of Vietnam ~.:an be consiuereu by the whole 
community." 
Girls to fast 
8even St. Mary's co-eds have signed a letter staling that they will participate in a twenty-four hour fast beginning midnight Tuesday in .~upport of the Mora­torium. The girls issued the statement yesterday asking that other members of the St. Mary's Community join them. 
They arc Sandy Griffin, Jane L h r• 1 s K hi
ca Y, .._.aro lttrm, at een (;rima, Catherine Cascarelli, Carol Cusick, and Carolyn Gatz. 
Morrissey resolution 
The Morrissey Hall Cou:1cil pa~ed a resolution Wednesday 
nig! t supporting the nationwide Vietnam Moratorium on Octo­her 15th. "The Morrissey Hall Council deplores the senseless loss ot life 
•

ISSUe at ND, St. Mary's 
in Vietnam. We seriously question the wisdom and moral­ity of our country's involvement in the Vietnam wnflict. For th•~sc reasons we enthusiastically 
sujlport and ur"t' all membt'rs of·
"' 
the  University  commun1ty  and  
all  concerned  Americans  to:  
Support  the  Moratorium  on  

business as usual on October I 5th by exercising their right to 1articipate in some meaningful 
Clclivity to promote peace in Viet Nam." 
Some discussion was hdd on the University's declaration on the moratorium. The general ~.:onsensus of the ··otlnct·l, a····dr­
~ ~v 
ding to Barkett, was that "they felt it was adequate. ~)tudcnts and teachers who do not wish to t k ' rt t·n tht's 1no atorl·um
a e ,,a · r
should not he fon:ed to do so." President of 'Morrissey John 
Barkett said that the reason lor 
resolution was to "show support 
for the moratorium, in the hopes 
that other halls will follow suit." 
Holy Cross llall also has pre­pared a "Day of Moral Concern" 
i:J conjunction with the Mora­torium, Hall President Tom Suddes announced last night. The activities will begin at I 0:30 with talks hy Professor Douglas of the Non-Violence Seminar and Michael Cullen of the Mil­waukee Fourteen. At 4:30 Major Maio and Captains Hasty and Drummond of the Notre Dame ROTC will speak. And at 7:00 Rev. Joseph Hoffman will cele­brate a ''Mass of the Holy Spirit." 
Tau Beta Pi forum 
An open forum on "The Engi­neer's Role in Achieving Peace" will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in room 303 of the Engineering 
Building. !Jiscussing the pros and cons of the issue will he Dr. Alan 
.. Monkewicz and Dr. Walter Gaja­da, both faculty members, along with John Jackson and Pat Cun­ningham, seniors. 

,-~-----------------------------~--------------~ 
NOTICE
Students planning to 
student teach during St. Mary's College students go to Second Semester, Room 320 Madeleva Hall Notre Dam• stl•dents go to Room
1969-70, must report by 
1110 Eao;t, M'!rnorial Library 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

BLOOD, SWEAT & TEARS 
Tickets on sale 

ACC Box Office, Gilbert's, Bookstore 
believe in a just, honest and r-~~~~~~~~~~~~--J-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~~~~~~~-! 
sensitive America," I he w'flege presidents said. "Vietnam now stands as a denial of so much· that is best in our society." 
The presidents made no claims that the end of the war would signal the end of the problems besetting many of the ~.:olleges today. 
"It will, however, permit us to work more effectively in support of more peaceful priorities, far from being depressed about our nation's future and our institu­tion·.~ future, we see hold oppor­tunities ahead once the divisive­ness of this war is in the past." 
SMC participates 
Certain members of the St. 

Mary's faculty have shown an 
interest in presenting talks on 
various aspects of the Viet Nam 
War as part of the wlkge's 
partiripation in Wednesday's war 
IIHHalorium. 
From 9:30a.m. until noon, a 

general discussion group about 
such topics as the woman's role 
111 the Viet Nam War and 
exposition of a 10 point Viet 
Nam program by Michael Novak 
and perhaps pertinent poetry 
readings, will be held on the 
lawn between Moreau Hall and 
the dining hall. 
The discussion will be in the 

coffee house in case of rain. 
Sister Franzita Kane will lead 

the discussion on the women's 
role in the war and Father 
Raymond Runde will talk about 
Mi~.:had Novak's proposals. 
Throughout the day, classes will he conducted at the wllege, aIt hough some teachers have indil:ated that they will be <ttlcnding Mor<tloriurn l'vents at Notre Dame. 
Many faculty memhers have stated that they are indined to leave tht' class format up to the initiative of the students. Some teachers are showing films or giving readings of material relevant to the issue of the war. 
English Dept. petition 

Me m hers of the English Department have circulated a Pet ition requesting that all 
classes be cancelled on Wednesday. The petition, which got 134
signatures, reads as follows: 
"We, the undersigned graduate, undergraduate, and 
. . . 

facuIty mem ers of tl1e I1
b ·.ng1s1 department of the University t'f Notre name, ask that all dassl's 


The college you can't get intowithout a job. 
The college is ours-Western Electric's Corporate Education Center in Hopewell, New Jersey. 
Like your college, ours has a campus with dorms, dining halls, labs and a library. Unlike yours, you can't get into ours without a job. A job at Western Electric. 
Our students-engineers, managers and other professionals-develop and expand their skills through a variety of courses, from corporate operations to computer electronics. To help bring better telephone service and equipment, through the Bell System. 
For information contact your placement office. Or write: College Relations Manager, Western Electric Co., Room 2500, 222 Broadway, New York, New York 10038. An equal opportunity employer.
tj'\West El t · 
'-e'Menutactum\g~d~~'vUn•tot~~~~r~,~ 
he cancelled on Wednesd<ty, Oct.' •-~~-~~~--~~~~~--~~~-==-~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~--_j 
PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER. TUESDAY, GCTOBER 14, 1969 
•

1n
Sailors rally • ra1n for title 

Bob Leonard, ABA Coach of the Year last year, brings his Indiana Pacers to the Convo tonight to battle the Pittsburgh Pipers in an exhibition contest. Tickets are $1.00 (general admis­sion) available at the ACC box­office. 




Erratum 
Television station WNDU was not to blame for Saturday's poor transmission of the ND-Army football game. According to Channel 16, for away games camera crews must be hired free-lance by the producer on location and WNDU has no con­trol over this hiring. In ,the case of Saturday's telecast, one of the camera crewmembers had never worked a football game before. Also, the game officials refus..ed to delay the game for commer­cial breaks, thus cutting out some of the action, We thank WNDU for bringing the situation to our attention. 
The Notre Dame Sailing Team was host of a regatta this Jeek­end held at Diamond t,akc, Michigan. Despite a dismal sky, nine Mid west schools attended the skipper's meeting Saturday morning. A very strong north­west breeze swept the course that morning but lightened as the sky cleared in the afternoon. After twelve races, Notre Dame was placed third behind Wisconsin State (Oshkosh) and the University of Wisconsin (Madison). 

The rain Sunday did not dam­pen the sailing spirit. After six more races, the Irish with 52 points held the lead over Oshkosh (54) and Wisconsin (56). A favorable decision on a protest waged against NO skip­per Tom Willison made the score final. 
Team Captain Richie Doyle 

NU, Valpo fall to Booters 
The Notre Dame soccer ctuo came off of a wet but winning weekend as they trounced the Northwestern Wildcats 7-0 and then squeaked by Valparaiso 3-2. 
The Saturday game in Evanston was a close resemblance to water polo as the Irish sloshed their way to a 2-0 half time lead and then came on strong in the second half to turn the match into a real Iaugher. Tim Patton was the top scorer in this game as he booted home 2 goals. Other scorers were Thor Paulsen, John Pedrotty, Jim Schweitzer, Mike Macken, and Greg Abrams, who scored on a penalty kick. Assists in this game went to Paulsen, Fred Rohol, Joe Bradley and Ross McGraw. The Irish took a healthy 29 shots while NO goalie Maury Brie turned back 12 Wildcat attempts. This was Brie's first shutout. 

On Sunday the Irish were surprised by Valparaiso who Capt. Abrams had thought of as "pushovers." It was literally an uphill battle for the Irish as they were playing on a sloped field. 
The Gaels overcame the hill and a 2-0 Ace's lead at half time, however, to win this pne. Pedrotty and Paulsen score~ in the second half on assists (rom Rohol and Patton. The big score came with only 18 sec<;mds remaining. Here, Pedrotty 1\lade 
Harriers paced by Pat Holle~:an 
The Western Michigan Bron­cos dominated the 14th annual Notre Dame Invitational cross-country meet last Friday. The runners from Kalamazoo placed five men at the 13th finisher or 
higher as they tallied a micro­
scopic 40 points. The nearest competitor was Eastern Michi­
· h bl 102 
gan Wit a respecta e 
points. Notre Dame finished 1Oth · th · ht t f ld 
m e eig een earn le . 

The highest finisher for the Irish was in 12th place. Lirbenberg of Western Michi­
gan ran away from the two top challengers in Sid Sink of Bow­ling Green and Jerry Richey of 
Pitt to nail down the number 
one slot. Winning time for the 
race was 23:49. 

Pat Holleran of Notre Dame 
was the first Irishman to the tape as he surprised many people 
with his finish. 
Mr. Murray as often as we have Mr. Richman if at all possible. -Sports Eel. 
© 1969, Los Angeles Times 
If I were the Baltimore Orioles today, I would not go on amf play the World Series against the New York Mets until and unless certain investigations were made and cer­tain specifications met. 
I think we're on the trail of the biggest story since Faust. 
The first thing I would do, if I were the Oricles, is refuse to play the Mets until every one of them had been stood in front of a mirror and p r o v e d to 
have a 1'eflection in it. 
Next, I would 
make  the  whole  
team  remove  its  
shoes  a:nd  stock­ 
ings.  A n y o n e  

with a cloven hoof would immediate­ly be barred from the Series. 
If even one of 

the Mets was seen flying over the Empire State Building on a broom, I would disqualify the whole team at once 
and substitute Atlanta. 
I would have a team of doctors taking skin and blood samples. Any one of the Mets not having a pulse would have to turn in his suit and go back to haunting houses or trading in souls. I would check their foreheads for horns. I would shadow the whole infield. If any one of them turned into a bat the minute the sun went down -the kind that flies in your hair, not hits a ball-! would get a net over it and put it in a bottle. 
If the Mets won the first three games of the World Series, I would refuse to field a team against them unless they transferred the games to Lourdes. 
The last time a championship team had the terrible thing happen to it that happened to Atlanta this past weekend, Arnold Rothstein was still alive. 
You all saw what happened to Atlanta. Guys hit line shots down the third-base line-then fell face­down in the batter's box and got thrown out at first fi·om short left field. Pitchers would see good pitches one-handed into the center­field seats by fooled batters. Even 
a long kick that caromed off another player and Tom Shriver flipped in the loose ball for the clincher. In this contest the Irish took 29 shots while Brie turned back 8 Ace's shots. 
The Irish have a match tomorrow versus Goshen behind Stepan Center at 3:30. 
•


Halls open 1n mud 
The 1969 lnterhall Football season opened Sunday despite heavy rain and poor field condi­tions. Defense dominated the play as eight of the twelve teams failed to score. There were two scoreless ties and in the other four games the winners were unscored upon. 
Section A 
League I Holy Cross Morrissey Pangborn 
Lyons 
League II 
Off-Campus Alumni· 
Walsh 
Sorin 
Dillon 
W L T I 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 I 0 
W L T 1 0 0
0 0 I 0 0 I 
0 0 0 
0 I 0 

JIM MURRAY 

Magical and Mystical Mets; Are They Human? 
We have nothing personal against Mr. Milt Richman-it's just that he's not the best sportswriter we can think of. Mr. Jim Murray is. His column is syndi­cated through the Los Angeles Times and thus we must have it sent through the mail. Usually, however, the majority of his columns are timely. We will run 
Henry Aaron, who makes one every eclipse of the sun, made a throwing error when he found the 
cutoff man mysteriously missing from the relay pattern. Even then, I could swear something reached down and thoughtfully picked his arm just as• he let go of the ball. 
On the Mets, .218 hitters who were drafted off the Atlanta roster hit game-winning home runs. Ex­actly doubling their season total in the process.. One banjo hitter who had hit two homers all year and had hit only seven in his three 
vears in the big leagues hit two home runs in two days! 
Just Ask Carlton 
It was not only the playoff. The Mets won a game this year in which Hi of their 27 outs were strikeouts, an all-time record for 
decided not to sail the first string varsity team through the whole regatta. The victory, then, showed that the Irish have a strong team coming up with junior and sophomore skippers, among them: Tim Flood, Tom Salack, Willison, George Gaw, 
John  Maus,  Kevin  Hoyt,  Ron  
Dacasio,  and  Tom  O'Laughlin.  
Other  schools  competing  

were: Marquette, Iowa, Lawrence (Wis.), Detroit, Maryville (St. Louis), and Sienna Heights. Low point skipper tro­phies were awarded to Chuck Breithaupt of Marquette in A-­Division and Eric Sterncopf of Oshkosh in B-Division. A trophy was also awarded to Mimi Eppig of Maryville as the best girl skipper. 
Breen-Philips 7 -Cavanaugh 
0 Off-Campus 14 -Dillon 0 Holy Cross I 8 ---Lyons 0 Stanford 26 -Carroll 0 Alumni 0 Walsh 0 Keenan 0 -Grace-St. Ed's 0 The Standings after the first 
week: Section B L T 

League III BreencPhilips Zahm Farley Cavanaugh 
League IV 
Stanford Keenan 
Grace-St. Ed's 
Flanner 
Carroll 

W 0 0 I 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 I 0 
·r· 
W L 

1 0 0 0 0 I 
0 0 l 
0 0 0 
0 I 0 
one pitcher. Usually, when only eight batters get a piece of the ball, vou expect at least a shutout. Steve Carlton didn't even get a win. Tell HIM the Mets were human! 
The Cubs thought they had the M0ts safely locked in a closet, 9% games in front with only a little more than a month to go. But the Mets walked through doors. 
Mets -or Mephistopheles? I would put a tail on Gil Hodges and make sure he still goes to mass every morning. I would watch those Mets on and off the field, and the first one who lit a cigarette by snapping his fingers would get reported. I would scan the stands with binoculars for a girl named Lola. And if we can just find one who gave a cemetery as his home address! 
You see, all those years, we 
thought the Devil was a Yankee 
fan ... 








