
VOL. Ill, No. 76 SerFilr• the Nt•tre dame and St. Mary's College Community SATURDAY,FEBRUARY 1:1,1969 
Police raid screening of film 
Pornography-censorship conference cancelled 
Film Is confiscated In Nleuwland Hall; 
AdmlnlsfraUon had no part In
Ensuing struggle results In InJuries decision on cancel 
A legal hassle over the premier of a pornographic film 
Following the wild ev­
mushroomed yesterday afternoon into the first violent 
ents of the afternoon, Stu­
confrontation of police and students m the history of the 
dent Union President
University of Notre Dame. 
Richard Rembusch official­
Two plaindothed ofticers and several students were 
ly closed the Pornography
injured, none seriously, in a scuffle which followed a raid 
and Censorship Conference 
by the St. Joseph's Countv Sheriffs deputies. Thev burst 
in a 6 p.m. press con­
into a large lecture room in Nieuwland Science Hall, where 
ference. 

the film, "Kodak Ghost Poems," was about to be shown to In a prepared statement more than 200 students. Rembusch said, "While the present tension continues, tbe Atty. Philip Facenda, special assistant to University President conference can be in no way Rev. Theodore Hesburgh , told the OBSHR VHR late yesterday that constructive and in keeping with the university did not call the police to the campus. its announced goal-the
Mace at Notre Dame.
St. Joseph County Prosecuting Attorney William Voor refused intelligent consideration of the to reveal who requested the warrant for the confiscation of the film, question of pornography.


Faccenda gets warrant
but informed sources said it was instigated by a South Bend group Unfortunately continuation of for decent literature. the program is, instead, very
Special Assistant to the think it was to their credit that
The police presented the warrant throughout La Fortune likely to be a catalyst for further
President Philip J. Facenda said they used as much restraint as
Center, searching the 0/JSER VER and other offices before the violence."
last night that he was presented they did," he added. 
fighting broke out later in the afternoon. In questioning following the
with a warrant for the seizure of Although the police showed
Just as about six of the deputies entered the rear of the room, reading of the statement,
the allegedly pornographic films the warrant to Facenda they re­
refusing to show either a warrant or identification, the film was Rembusch said that the reason
which were to be screened yes-fused to show it to students
taken off the projector by the students. St. Mary's junior Kathy police appeared on campus was
terday afternoon. when they seized the film.
Cecil put the film under her dress to prevent confiscation of it by because of complaints filed by
Prior to the search for and Facenda commented, "The pol­
the officers. It was discovered and wrestled away from her when an the South Bend Citizens for
seizure of the film by sheriff's ice probably thought the best
officer noticed the lead end of the film hanging down from the front Decent Literature. He said that
deputies, Facenda said, "The way to avoid a confrontation
of her skirt. while the COL approved of the
police showed me a warrant to was to get in and get out as 
pornography conference held in

pick up what was probably por-quickly as possible. The police 
the Center for Continuing

nographic film." used a minimum of force all day 
Education last year that "it was

When Facenda was further long. They could have moved in 
their feeling that our conference

questioned as to how the police at 12 o'clock in the Student 
was heavily weighted with 

were informed of the possibility Center but they waited for the 
pornography."

of the film's screening he said, vote to see if the students would 
Rembusch defended the idea

"David Kahn stood up last night see the light." He added, "The 
of the conference and blamed

(Thursday night) after the con-students openly defied the law, 
poor organization for the

elusion of "Lady Godiva" and the University, the Student Gov­
unfortunate events of the day.

announccd it. I received several ernment and the Student 
"The original rationale behind

telephone calls this morning tel-Union." 
the conference was and is still

ling me of this." He further stated that the 
totally valid. The present

Facenda defended the ac-University is not cancelling the 
situation evolved, in my opinion, 

tions of the police, particularly conference. He did admit that 
because of poor planning on our

in regard to their lodging them-University President Rev. 
part and partially because of the

selves inside O'Shaughnessy Hall Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., 
reaction~ of certain individuals

and preventing several hundred could change his mind later. Stu­
on both the left and the right.

angry students from following. dent Union President Rick 
"Pornography or any other·

''After the police left the Rem busch cancelled the con­
subject is perfectly proper

Science Hall they split into two ference an hour later of his own 
material for discussion on a

police made their way through the crowd to get at Miss Cecil and the groups, one taking the film. The volition. 
university campus. However

film. other group became surrounded He said he had no reason to 
1 such discussion must be properly 
"'1"1tc po1·tcc grabbcd me-there were about five of them " said by students and faculty and' believe that any students had 
and orderly executed. 

Miss Cecil. "They didn't know how to get the film. They had to pull were attacked by them. I saw been arrested during the events 
Unfortunately this has not been 

me over some chairs and I was up in the air and my foot was with my own eyes one police-of the afternoon, but he had not 
the case with the Censorship and 

caught...aftcr they got the film, I got pulled down the stairs and a man get knocked down. The stu-been in contact with the county 
Pornography Conference. In

desk came down right on top of me." dents were cursing and throwing prosecutor. 
short, continuation of the

snowballs. Student Body President
The police hulled their way out the back door of the room and 
conference would be only to the 

out the Nieuwland exit near the old business building. The students "When police are attacked Richard P.ossie, Vice President 
detriment of the community."

emptied the room and followed. you have a situation where law Charles Nau, Rembusch and 
Rem busch ·stated that the

and order have completely Student Union Vice President
The police walked quickly and surrounded the man with the 
decision was made after

broken down and the police have Bill Wade met with Facenda yes­
film. They had gone only about 25 yards when one student jumped 
consultation with student

into the group of police and grabbed at the film, but was unable to a right to restore that order. If terday afternoon, but Facenda 
leaders and denied that any

comandeered would on the
wrest it from the policeman. The they the building not comment 
pressure was put on his

it was to avoid more violence. I meeting.
Jther officers grabbed the 

Continued on P8118 4. student and pushed him out of the way, while several more stu­dents began lying down in front of the swelling crowd following the officers. By this time, most of the students were out of Nieuwland and many were yelling "Pigs," "Fascists," and assorted obsceni­ties. The officers were also pelted with snowballs. In the melee, several stu­dents who had lain down on the sidewalk were trampled. By the time the officers rounded the corner heading toward O'Shaughnessy Hall, about a dozen students rushed the of­ficers and went for the film. The man holding the reel was 
Continued on page 4. 




PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1969 


Brennan will speak today  THE WORLD TODAY 
I  
I  
I  
f  Associate Brennan of  Justice William J. the U.S. Supreme  symposium, and sessions deal with "The Moral Basis of Human  alumnus, speaking at a reunion dinner, and Prof. George W.  Thleu orders arrests  
I  Court is the principal speaker at  Rights,"  "The  Moral  Basis  of  Keeton, discussing Notre Dame's  SAIGON  (UPI)  -President  Nguyen  Van  Thieu  has ordered  
~  a two-day centennial observance  Violence," and "The Moral Basis  junior  year  program  of  legal  authorities in South Vietnam's provinces to arrest Buddhist monks  
~  of the University of Notre Dame Law School today. Justice  of Legal Education." Invited to the observance have  study at the University of London where he is dean of the  and Roman Catholic priests who make "political sermons" that inflame the prople, it was disclosed yesterday.  
t  Brennan is the Justice who censored the controversial "Flaming Creatures" of the Pornography and Censorship Conference. "Human Rights and the Law" is the theme of the centennial  been members of the Notre Dame Law Association, the deans of some 130 American law schools, University trustees and . Law Advisory Council members South Bend area attorneys and judges, and Notre Dame faculty  law faculty. Justice Brennan, who has been on the Supreme Court since 1956, will speak at an academic convocation today. Other events include the traditional Red Mass for lawyers  "Monks and priests are -free to go to their pagodas and churches to conduct ceremonies and to pray," Thieu said during a trip to the Mekong River Delta province of Co Cong. "But if they deliver political sermons to stir up the people, the provicnnce chiefs should 'arrest them and report them to me." Thieu's statement was made two days ago, but not published in Saigon until Friday.  

members and law students. The and judges in Sacred Heart Thieu charged that the Communists were planning to use symposium will be closed to the Church, a Law School Open 
religious and political organizations to stir up anti-government public, however. House, and a centennial banquet 
feeling. He said provincial authorities must warn, in person, monks, Other speakers at Centennial at which Dean Lawless and the 
priests and political leaders "who lend a hand to the Communists or events include Lt. Governor Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, advocate a pro Communist peace." Raymond Broderick of C.S.C., Notre Dame's president, 
Planes IJomiJ Blafra

Pennsylvania, a Notre Dame law are speaking. 
UMUOHIAGU, Biafra (UPI)-Divebombing Nigerian war planes killed 300 Biafrans and wounded 500 in a lightning attack on the crowded Umu<9hiagu market, Biafran authorities reported yesterday. 
Biafra said it was the second costliest Nigerian air raid of the

Acapulco For Easter 
20-month-old civil war. 
Witnesses said the Soviet-made Ilyushin jets caught nearly l ,C'JO persons, mostly refugees, in the market. First they strafed i~ with cannon and rockets, then dropped their bombloads. Officials estimated 500 persons were wounded in the raid.

Final Signups 
One of the bombs landed in fromt of a maternity clinic, killing 15 women and children. Terrified, the refugees and villagers panicked. Stumbling over one another, they made escape from the market virtually impossible. 
Fri.-5:30, 8:30 I Sat. & Sun.-2:15, 5:20, 8:30 
The bombs devastated the village and left deep craters. Members

Monday
Mon.-Thurs.-7:30 only 
of the 125 families who had relatives killed competed with vultures in the search for bodies. Many of the wounded were critically hurt. 
The Biafran Information Bureau in Geneva said the raid was second in intensity to the Nigerian air attack on Otuocha which killed 500 Biafrans last year. 
Sweden grants asylum 

STOCKHOLM (UPI)-The Swedish Aliens Commission granted asylum yesterday to 10 more deserters from the U.S. military services, raising to 175 the number of Gis who have been given refuge in Sweden. 
Asylum is granted on "humanitarian grounds" to U.S. servicemen who desert their posts to protest the war in Vietnam or to escape serving there. 
Of the 175 granted asylum, 10 have since left Sweden either to return to their units or to the United States. The commission said 14 GI deserters had applied for asylum but left the country before a decision was made. 
the commission said it currently is considering asylum requests from l 0 other U.S. servicemen. The commission does not reveal the branch of service or posts from which the Gls deserted. 
Sirhan trial proceeds 
LOS ANGELES (UPI)-A woman opposed to capital punishment and another who apparently had her mind made up a:> to the guilt of the defendant were excused yesterday during selection of six alternate jurors for the murder trial of Sirhan B. Sirhan. 
Linda S. Katrenich and Verna Holmquist were among five prospective alternates dismissed during the yesterday morning session in the 19th court day of Sirhan's trial for the murder of Sen. 
Robert F. Kennedy. The three others, all men, were excused because prolonged jury duty would have been a hardship on them. 
Nixon and W IIkins confer 

WASHINGTON (UPI)-President Nixon pledged yesterday to extend the opportunity for getting ahead to all segments of society and then conferred with Roy Wilkins, the first Negro leader Nixon has met since he became President. 
Wilkins, executive director of the NAACP, said after a 50-minute meeting at the White House that he was "gratified by the President's grasp ... of the urgency and the crisis situation" confronting America's Negroes. 
Shaw trial witness testifies  
NEW  ORLEANS  (UPI)-A  New  York  accountant  yesterday  
testified he attended a party in June, 1963, where Clay L. Shaw sat  
around a kitchen table with seven others and talked about the best  
way to kill President John F. Kennedy.  
Charles I. Spiesel said he was introduced to Shaw by name by  
the late David W. Ferrie. Shaw is charged with conspiring with Ferrie  
and Lee Harvey Oswald to kill the President.  
1  Another state witness Vernon W. Bundy Jr., told Shaw's trial he  
JUNIOR  ENTERPRISE CO.  went to the New Orleans waterfront in June, 1963, to take heroin,  
NAME  156 OLIVER  ST.,  N. TONAWANDA,  N.Y.  14120  and saw Shaw give Oswald "what looked to me like money."  
ADDRESS  PLEASE  SEND  ME  QUILLS  
@25s:-EA. PLUS lOC  HANDLING CHG.  The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacation  
by  the  students  of  the  University  of  Notre  Dame.  Subscriptions  may  b  
CITY  STATE  (EXTRA SAVINGS 5 QUILL PENS $1.00)  purchased  for  $10  from  The Observer,  Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556  
Second  class  postage  paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556  

~--------------------------------------------------------------­

,--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
SATURDAY,FEBRUARY 8,1969 THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 
Mary Michael Farnum, Senior Editor Paul Schroeder, Executive Editor
THE OBSERVER 
Don Holliday, Managing Editor
An Independent Student Newspaper 

Betty Doerr, Chris Wolfe, Michael Patrick O'Connor, Don Hynes, Tom Ehrbar, Bill Mitchell, Tim O'Melia, Guy DeSapio
WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief 

Associate Editors FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA Ted Price, News Editor David Stauffer, Copy Editor 
''This 1s 1nsane, I can't believe it.'' 
Any way you look at it, February 7, 1969 was a bad, bad day at Notre Dame. Maybe English Professor Peter Michelson said it better: "This is insane. I can't believe it." 
Insane or not, the facts remain: students 
were maced and policemen were punched. 
The police came and confiscated a tum. The District Attorney's office will view the film and decide whether or not to prosecute anyone or everyone who had anything to do with the conference. 
Everyone was warned that it could happen. That's why SUAC decided Thursday night to stop all showings of films. A group of students knowing full well what could happen went ahead and attempted to show a film anyway. 
Armed• with a warrant authorizing the film's conficsation, the police had every legal right to take the film. What the officers lacked, however, was the foresight to avoid the confrontation they must have known would result. Instead of proceeding with the confiscation in an orderly fashion, they barged into the lecture hall, refusing to show either identification or a warrant, and shoved their way to the film. They should have realized that such an approach was bound to stir up a crowd of already over-heated students. 

Apparently the police placed the confiscation of the film above the maintainence of order on this campus. For all the violence, it wasn't worth it, 
While the reactions of the students who jumped the officers can be understood, they cannot be excused. Before the police arrived, David Kahn called for students to surround the projector and supply "passive resistance." Simple passive resistance must be distinguished from confrontation, and that was one thing the students protecting the film apparently were not interested in. 
Finally, however, it must be admitted that a second guessing after the dust has cleared can be regarded as speculation at best. 
Who knows whose fault it was? The Conference could have been better planned. Perhaps things like legality could have been checked on ahead of time. Perhaps SUAC could have prevented the film from starting to be shown yesterday. Perhaps the police could have used better tactics. Perhaps our society's laws about censorship and pornography are outdated. Without a doubt they should be applied with great care to a university community. Perhaps it was everyone's fault. Perhaps no one's. 
One can only look at the facts and try to learn something. Students have to get closer to administrators-administrators closer to students. Students not so bold, police not so violent, and both not so self-righteous. Maybe all those things are dreams-and we'll never see them. But if we don't, we'll see more violence like yesterday's. 


Statement of cancellation 
This afternoon the decision was made by me, President of the Student Union to cancel the remaining sessions in the Academic Commission's Conference on Censorship and pornography. This decision was reached after the events of this afternoon. 
Today, violence broke out on campus and the first obligation of everyone is to restore order and peace. While the present (tension) continues, the conference can be in no way constructive, and in no way in keeping with its announced goal-the intelligent, orderly consideration of the question of pornography. Unfortunately, continuation of the program is instead very likely to be a catalyst for further violence. 
This decision was reached after extensive and agonizing discussion with other student leaders. In no way were pressures brought to bear by the University administration. This action is not censorship, but a logical decision made to restore peace to the Notre Dame community and halt something that an unfortunate chain of events has rendered destructive. 
The original rationale behind the conference was and is still totally valid. The present situation evolved in my opinion partially because of poor planning on our part and partially because of the reactions of certain individuals on both the left and right. Pornography or any other subject is perfectly proper material for discussion on a university campus; However, such discussion must be properly and orderly executed. Unfortunately, this has not been true of the Censorship and Pornography conference. In short, continuation of the conference would be only to the detriment of the community. 
Details on financial adjustment for all delegates will be forthcoming. The delegate card will serve as your receipt. 
F. Richard Rembusch 
PAGE 4 THE OBSERVER.. SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 8,1969 
Cries of "Fascist pig" 

Chicago students disrupt official's meeting 
CHICAGO (UPI)-Student rebel students have occupied The students pushed harder A university spokesman said "No amount of summonses demonstrators yesterday since Jan. 30, and handed out against the guards holding them the officials who entered the can convince us that our breached a cordon of University summonses that could lead to out of the room. One law administration building found jemands should not now be of Chicago security police, more student suspensions. student, in what may have been "only 20 to 30" persons :net," a flyer issued by the screamed "Fascist pig" at a The band of rebels lay in an attempt to cool the tense standing guard at barricaded strikers declared. university disciplinary official, wait for Oakes in the lobby of confrontation, identified himself stairways and elevators or Some 35 0 or 400 students 
started the sit-in Jan. 30 andand disrupted his meeting with a the Jaw school and charged after as an FBI agent. lounging in the Jittered hallways.

student charged with him, shouting and taunting, as he "FBI, FBI," the students Students reported that university officials, while participating in a nine-day sit-in. strode to a small meeting room. shouted. angry shouting matches erupted keeping security personnel About 25 of the sit-in Three husky university They broke past the guards there were of posted in and near the building,
and incidents protesters accosted Dallin H. plainclothesmen blocked their and streamed into the room. "pushing and shoving" between have not attempted to regain 
way. Oakes slipped out a rear control of the university's nerve
Oakes, chairman of a special the rebels and the administrative faculty disciplinary committee, "Fascist pig, Fascist pig," door of the room. The guards staff. The rebels accused one center. the students-both men and clustered at the door to protect President Edward Levi, the
in the basement of the staff member of breaking the 
his retreat. One guard shouted at university deans and other
university's ultra-modern law women-screamed at Oakes. antenna off a walkie talkie used school building on the South Oakes yelled back at the a girl demonstrator: by the occupation force. administrative personnel have students. "You watch out or I'm operated from other offices on
Side campus. The sitters-in were 
The pushing, shoving and "We are going to meet with going to flatten you. I have a job and off the campus. Most of the
summoned to appear before the 

screaming match erupted a few a student to determine if he to do and if it takes flattening university's disciplinary university's 8,600 students, hours after a task force of wants a public or private you I'll do it." committee, and a school including some members of the university officials paid a hearing," he shouted, "and I will The students vowed to sit-in group who came and went
spokesman said failure to appear 

not be intimidated by your disrupt any hearings Oakes tried as they pleased, have attended
surprise visit to the would be cause for suspension. administration building, which~ presence." to hold privately. Leaders of the rebel group classes as usual. "There will be no private Some 350 nonstriking
promptly denounced the new 

hearing," one shouted. They students gathered in the
move by the university and

Confiscators use mace 
remained long after the university quadrangle yesterday
appealed to other students to 

Continued from page 1. said: "We're policemen and that disciplinarv official left The and voted overwhelmingly by
join them later in the day in a 

knocked to the ground and hit ought to be enough." The police secunty guards finally relaxed, planned disruption of a show of hands to call upon the his head on the sidewalk. and Dr. Michelson then traded patting the demonstrators on protesters to end the sit-in
disciplinary committee meeting.

their heads. ground, one of the officers Student Body President 
As soon as he went to the accusations of riot incitement. • 
Pornography conference Is cancelled
pulled out a can of what ap­Richard Rossie pushed his way restore peace to the Notre Dame

peared to be MACE and began through the crowd and echoed Continued from page 1. Earlier in the afternoon,
community.

aiming at the ~es of any non­Dr. Michelson's demand for a Rembusch and his Vice
organization by administration "I have been in touch with
police in the immediate area. court order and identification. President Bill Wade met with
officials. He said the cancellation Mr. Voor (county prosecutor)
0 BSER VER Photographer One of the officers took his lawyer and Special Assistant to
of the remainder of the events of on and off and he has given me
John Werheim was pushed aside badge from his pocket and the President Philip Facenda and 
by an officer and MACED when the conference schedule should no indication that anyone will
flashed it in front of Michelson, discussed ramifications of the
not be interpreted as censorship be arrested, at least, not until
he refused to leave the scene. but would not permit him to see day's events. 
After the squirted but rather as an attempt to the films have been viewed,"
officer his name. 
Rembusch concluded. 
Werheim's eyes, he went after Rembusch's statement wasMeanwhile, the man withhis camera, filling the lens with reprinted in its entirety andthe film had skipped out theMACE. 
distributed to the entire campusback door of O'Shaughnessy and In all, at least I 5 persons 
shortly after the press
headed for a car parked parked were hit with the MACE, which conference was concluded.
near the fieldhouse. A handfulsucceeded in breaking up the of students spotted him and

ruckus. The scuffling lasted Details on the financial
chased him. One student lay

about five minutes. adjustment ' of delegates who
down in front of the unmarked

The officers, with the film­bought tickets will be bearer holding his head, hurried car' but the officers swerved forthcoming in the near future. 
Pears comments 
The Notre Dame Security Department denied any knowledge of the police raid. They did, however, restrict cars from entering the campus at the time of the rair 
Arthur Pears, Director of Security said: "Basically, I know nothing. I know absolutely nothing. I was more surprised than anyone that police were on the campus."

Theatre performs play; 
He said that he had received his instructions to keep cars 
toward O'Shaughnessy Hall. Student center site from entering the campus from
around him, headed for the East 

They entered and slammed the Fr. McCarragher, Vice President
gate and made off for downtown The Theatre of the Ridi­with McElroy. McElroy took res­
doors behing them until Pro­for Student Affairs. "This is a
with the film. culous performed "Lady ponsibility for the physical well­
fessor Peter Michelson asked and standard measure that often goes
Godiva" free of charge for teh being of the Cr.,ter, assuring
was granted entrance. into effect when you get a lot of
Meanwhile, the officers at Notre Dame student body last· Brother Gorch that the walls and 
He demanded that the of­non-students who might come
O'Shaughnessy succeeded in stal­night in the LaFortune Student furniture would not be touched. 
ficers show him both a court onto campus," he said. "We have 
ling the growing crowd. Some­Center ballroom. The Student Brother Gorch also asked that
order and personal identi­done this in the past, such as at 
one suggested talking to Arts Union refused to accept res­the audience be limited to Notre
fication. pep rallies." 
~ and Letters Dean Frederick ponsibility for the scheduled Dame and St. Mary's students. If 
I One of the officers an­
I Crossan and the plainclothesmen performance in Washington Hall, the police or other outsiders in­Pears concluded, "It appears
swered: "We showed the warrant

I proceeded down the hall­and broke contract with the tervened, McElroy advised that to me that this whole thing is 
to everyone at the La Fortune

I followed by a crowd of about theatre group. However, the the students be passive and obey between local authorities and 
I Student Center.'· Another one 
200 students-toward the Dean's Union agreed to fulfill their fin­directions. students." office. Dr. Crossan was not in his ancial responsibility to the com­
t 
office, however, and the officers pany.
I 
headed for the Faculty Club. 
Bill McElroy, a Notre Dame
The · crowd followed, but was 
junior, negotiated with the Stu­
not permitted entrance to the

t 
dent Union and University of­
Club and eventually dwindled. 

I 
ficials for the use of Washington 
Hall. When he was unable to

I Another group of about 200 I 
attain the Hall facilities, the
students gathered in the Student

I group decided to perform char­
Center after dinner, debating 
ging no admission in LaFortune,
whether to stage a production of 
improvising with a minimum of
the cancelled play "Lady 
props.

Godiva" as a private enterprise. The play, as well as the Fugs concert and other scheduled Student Center Manager, events, were cancelled by Stu­Brother Francis Gorch, gave per­dent Union President Richard mission for the impromptu Lpre­Kathy Cecil Rem bush. 
sentation in a hurried conference 










