
ND faces Southwest w1nner 1n Cotton Bowl 
Father Joyce explained that the great boost it would give to 

by Cliff Wintrode 
money was desperately needed the prestige and recruitment pro­

Father Edmund Joyce, at Notre Dame as
to finance the newly formed gram addi­Ex ccut ivc Vice-President of 

ethnic studies program at the tional reasons for accepting the Notre Dame, publicly confirmed 
University. The lure of the pro­bid. 

at an afternoon press conference Parseghian, who was "de­
ceeds from a bowl game to

yesterday that the Fighting Irish lighted and pleased," added that
finance the program was thehave accepted an invitation to primary factor in the change of it was "extremely difficult" to play in the Cotton Bowl classic policy, Joyce emphasized. coach at Notre Dame where the 
on New Year's Day. Speculation had the money only incentive is the number one Notre Dame's opponent will 
being used for artificial turf and ranking and where an early sea­be the Southwest Conference for the Convo Center. son loss can destroy all hopes for champion which will be the win­
"The crucial consideration this goal. 

ncr of the clash between se­
was the urgent need of tho Uni­Joyce noted that practices for cond-ranked Texas and fourth­versity for funds to finance the game would be held duringranked Arkansas on December 6 the vacation period so there
minority student academic pro­

in Fayettville, Arkansas. and Notre would be harm done the
grams scholarships. no to The Cotton Bowl appearance Dame's share of bowl game pro­academic life of the players.

will be the second post season ceeds will be dedicated to this Joyce did warn that "nothing appearance in history for the 
pressing University need," he is permanent" and that includes Irish breaking a forty-four year 
said. the new policy. But he added drought dating back to the 1925 that the question "has to be and 
!lead Coach Ara Parseghian

Rose Bowl against Stanford. The will be considered in the years had its pipeline in touch with the idea Sunday night. Last
and Athletic Director Moose

Irish, led by the fabled Four ahead." Thursday the team voted to go
Krause also cited the added in­Notre Dame officials. 
llorsemen, won that contest 
Vice-President of the Cotton Earlier last week Athletic to a bowl and on Sunday night centive that a bowl appearance
27-10 to establish their un­Bowl and Chairman of the Selec­they voted to go to the Cotton
would give to the players and Director Moose Krause and Par­
blemished bowl record. tion Committee, Field Scovell, seghian both said they were in Bowl. said that Notre Dame's football favor of the Irish going to a Parseghian said the vote was tradition and fine program plus bowl. A later statement was re­noCu-na.nimous in favor of going the quality of the team made the leased saying that the Board of but the negative votes were cast Irish the number one choice of Trustees along with Father lies­because some players had al­the selection committee. burgh were receptive to the idea. ready made plans for the Christ­
He added that as soon as Parseghian received notice mas holidays which would have Notre Dame indicated that they Sunday that the Cotton Bowl to be interrupted. were interested in a bowl game, was in inviting Notre that
interested Parseghian said the the Cotton Bowl immediately Dame and had the team vote on 
(Continued on page 3) 

CPA debates course of action 
cated a sit-in protest, somewhatto protest.

by John DiCola like the demonstration held last
Those who attended the meet­year for the Dow-CIA inter­The CPA held an open meet­ing were torn between the two views. Others felt that the inter­

ing last night to determine what extremes of removing the repre­
views should be forcibly opened

action, if any, should be taken sentatives bodily or passing out 
up to the public, or, if they were 

to protest the interviews being leaflets in front of the door. 
not opened up, ended by the

held today by Dow Chemical Some wanted to confront the 
protesters. Also discussed was a

and the CIA. The main question university community with facts 
possible confrontation with Fr. 

put before the group was about the subversive activities of 
Hesburgh's fifteen minute rule.

whether action taken by the the CIA. Most agreed that the 
CPA leaders tentatively decided

protesters would be disruptive or closed interviews should be 
that such a confrontation will

non-disruptive. The question of opened up to permit free discus­
take place if the rule is invokedviolence vs. non-violence also a­sion, and that the CIA, a subver· by the administration. 

rose when disruptive tactics were sive organization has no place on 
No definite action was de­the university.
discussed. 
cided upon, except that thereThe meeting opened with a Tim MacCarry initiated a mo­would be some sort of demon­re­

discussion of the basic principles tion which would allow no 
stration tomorrow. The meeting

behind a protest, outlining the cruiting to take place by any 
adjourned until ll :30 p.m.
recruiter who will not allow therole of the CIA and Dow in when definite tactics were to be

determining U.S. foreign policy. interviews to be opened up to 
discussed and decided upon byHead Coach Ara Parseghian is obviously "pleased and delighted" to The meeting then progressed in­the public. The motion was CPA leaders. 

be going to Dallas for the Cotton Bowl as he cracks a wide smile at to a discussion of the various passed by a vote of those pre­The demonstration is planned
yesterday's press conference. tactics available to those wishing sent. 
for one o'clock in front of the
The discussion then turned to the actual tactics to be used in Placement Bureau on the second

McCarthy explains CO amendment 
<>rrordance with this motion. floor of the Administration Some of those present advo-building.by Mark Nelson ing to McCarthy, "to 1) go in to of the president more than to 
Professor Charles McCarthy 
the armed services and become a just make sure that the lights 


Plan trip to Dallas
murder; 2) go to jail; 3) perjure work? The president of the

spoke to a group of about 30 himself by saying he is a total University can say things at a Since the announcement was transportation in Dallas, and a
students last night at Nieuland 
made Monday that Notre Dame ticket

pacifist; 4) leave the country; 5) cocktail party that have no more to the game.
Science Hall on the selective effect than most things others is to meet either Arkansas or Sufficient hotel reservationsconscientious objection amend­cower in fear behind various 
draft deferments." can do." Texas on New Years Day, Janu­have been provided for all stu­ment proposed by himself and ary 1, arrangements have been dents wishing to make the trip.
Professors • William Lewers and McCarthy said this must be McCarthy added that there 
changed, because "you cannot finalized for the Student Trip by The number of reservations open
Thomas Schaeffer. would be little support from the Studentaire Travel through the is only 500 because of the lackThe purpose of the amend­tell an individual for twenty older generation, saying, "many 
Student Union. hotel of

years that he cannot murder, of space and because
ment, which would go into the people between 40 and 50 years 
Draft Lottery Bill, is to allow and then force him to when he old say 'I put in my time, why Round trip fare from New the inavailability of chartered York to Dallas back to Chicago
those between the ages of 18 knows that it is wrong." shouldn't they?"' planes.
will be $169.00. (Bus transporta­

and 25 who object to a certain McCarthy called for Univer­Reservations for the Student war to be allowed to serve in a sity and nation-wide support of When asked what action had tion to Notre Dame will be Trip to Dallas and return will be available.) Round trip fare from
non-combatant service. the amendment, and said that if been taken with other univer­made on Monday evening, Nov­
Dallas Chi­

McCarthy told the students such people as the presidents of sities, McCarthy said that several Chicago to back to ember 24, on a first come, first that if the Draft Lottery Bill is universities, and others who universities, such as Harvard, cago will cost $149.00. All served basis in the Rathskellar of passed by December I, on people would listen to, were to Princeton, and Stanford have planes will depart on either the LaFortune Student Center 
Tuesday, December 30, or Wed­

January I 5 every seniors' name call for the amendment, it would been contacted, but no definite commencing at 6:30. A non­
nesday, December 31, and re­

would be thrown into the lot­have a lot more effect. action has yet taken place. refundable deposit ol $2).00
turn Saturday evening, January

tery. McCarthy continued, "What McCarthy added that if the will be necessary to make an 
3. The total cost covers air fare,

McCarthy said that if a person about the President of Notre December l deadline is missed application for the trip. If there 
via DC-8 Super Jet Charter,

of draft eligibility age finds a Dame. As a priest and the presi­there will be 60 days to gain are any q ucstions, call Tim Col­
hotel room at the Adolphus

particular war unjust, he has five dent of the University shouldn't nation-wide support of the Iins (l 085) or Jim Rocap
Hotel ( 1322 Commerce St.), bus

alternatives. These are, accord-he take some stand? Isn't the job amendment. ( 1201 ). 
----__________________] 





\ j .:,:-P:_::A::;:G::,:E:..,:2:,_______________________m=~'/J=--_Q:::_arERfi.M:....__:....__-=._______________T_U_E__:S'-D-A_Y-'-,N_O.;:_V_E_M.-B;;..;E;...R;...1;.;:8-'-,.:...:19:..::..;;;69~ 
Form new group 

No application received for University Forum 
by Dave Fromm 
Student Senate Secretary Ed Hogan said last night that he had not yet received any applications for student positions on the University Forum. He has been accepting student self­nominations in writing for the past week. 
Hogan said that the Friday, November 14 deadline estab­lished by the senate would probably be extended to a later date. 
A five man Senate screening committee will then interview the prospective nominees and report to the senate with a list of not more than twelve names. The committee is composed of 





Budweiser. 
KINO 0 ........ 
~.--..~~."'-14 ~w~~and.&u~J 
THE lARGEST-SELliNG BEER IN THE MIRI.IJ 
~-~~ 
ST.LOUIS NEWARK LOS ANGELES TAMPA HOUSTON 
y._<:v~ ~\,_~ ~\\\) 
THE 


KING 

IS TAPPt:D CHALET HOLIDAY 
AGAIN! 

Thurs., Nov.JO with 
c.heer leaders 
fr'ee raffle and


Y-'v/ /1 

z•u~ ,?~ 

-Souven'RS 
~ h~~ '\ 


you must be 21 

L_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ ------­
senators Ed McCartin, John Tobin, Fred Suiffrida, Dave Johnson, and Eric Andrus. 
The twelve students listed will be given the opportunity to appear and speak before the Senate. Each senator will then vote for three nominees; the three students with the most votes will then be designated as student representatives to the University Forum. 
The Forum will also include r e presenta tives from the administration, the faculty, the trustees, the graduate student body, and the alumni. 
Student participation in the forum was authorized by a Senate bill passed at a November 4 meeting. The bill read in part: 

8pm f'izza 

SIGN-UPS 




SSO DEPOSIT 
TUES-WED-THURS 
2:00 -4:30 
SERVICES OFFICE 4E LAFORTUNE 
"The Student Senate of the end of the school year May, University of Notre Dame shall 1970 ·and shall be empowered to accept the University Forum as decide participation in the proposed in the letter of Univer­Forum for the year 1970-1971 sity President Theodore M. at the end of the school year Hesburgh of May 19, 1969. The May, 1970..." Student Senate shall review the The bill continued with a operation of the Forum at the recommendation that the 


'Business Review' establishing new format & editorial boards 
by Dennis Moody In the last few weeks, the Business Review, a magazine published once each semester by the students of the College of Business, experienced sweeping changes in its structural organi­zation. Citing the lack of a work­able framework in the past, this year's editors have adopted a plan which will add both effec­tiveness and continuity over a period of years. The central point of their plan is the establishment of a Senior Editorial Board consisting of the four senior editors: Jim Burke, Phil Eglsaer, Bill Goodyear, and a Junior Editorial Board of the two junior editors: Pat Bowers and Joe Wemhoff. In addition, the editors drew up a formal set of objectives to serve as guideposts. These ob­jectives are: I) To promote a student run, business-oriented magazine, 2) To improve student understanding and awareness of the current business environ­ment, 3) To provide students with an opportunity to express their creative business interests to the rest of the community. In past years all experience in working on the Review left with the departing Senior editors. However, in the proposed changes, the junior editors will organize the articles for review by the senior editors, who make all final decisions. The following year the Junior Editorial Board along with two other staff mem­bers would make up the Senior Editorial Board and bring to it the necessary experience. Another change will involve the format of the magazine. Pre­viously, the editors selected a 

f-th_e_m_e_f_o_r_e_a_ch_e_d'_·tt_·o_n_a_n_d_t_h_e__w_h_ile_o_n_th_e_ir_w_ay_h_o_m_e_f_ro_m--, Basket b a II tickets 
STUDENT UNION PRESENTS 
entire publication was geared to­wards this theme. In contrast, this year's editors have estab­lished a basic format to be fol­lowed in the succeeding issues. The magazine will not focus on one particular segment of the business world but rather will include articles on international, national and community hap­penings. There will also be vari­ous special features such as book reviews, economic forecasts, per­sonalities, editorials and news from other business schools. 
·On Wednesday, November I 9th, the editors have planned 

Guard attacked Sun. 
by Tom Bornholdt 
The attack upon a security guard Sunday night, was revealed by Arthur Pears, Director of Security in an interview yesterday. While patrolling near the northwest corner of Holy Cross Hall at 
11:25 p.m. Sunday the security guard was jumped, hit on the head and knocked to the ground by two assailants. They then fled 
in the direction of Columba Hall. The security guard is unable to identify them and he was not seriously hurt. It is the gurad's opmwn that his attackers were planning to break into Holy Cross Hall, though there is no evidence to verify this idea. 
Except for this incident Pears felt the previous weekend was relatively peaceful. There were a few cases he considered notable. 
Two high school students were attacked out ide the Athletic and Convocation Center at around 5:00 Sunday evening, 
to set up a booth in the lobby of the Business Administration Building. The purpose of the booth will be to answer ques­tions and encourage students to write for the Review. At the present time, the magazine i:> still lacking in staff writers and the editors hope to encourage any student interested in both business and the idea of writing for a business magazine to take an active part in the Business Review. Members of the Senior and Junior Editorial Boards will be present on Wednesday to talk to interested students. 
student members report to th'e student body after each meeting and that they prepare a written critique of the Forum in May, 1970. It mandated that SBP Phil McKenna sit as a member of the Forum. The bill also set up th1! student election procedures. 

skating at the ACC. The skaters were not seriously hurt, but said that their attackers had tried to steal their skates. A concession dealer at the ACC claimed thalt the attacking youths had told him that they came "for a fight, 
not to skate". 
The storeroom in Alumni Hall was broken into Saturday night and $62 worth of food and drink was stolen. The theft was reported at 7:30 Sunday night by Timothy Schaffer of Alumni Hall. He felt that the robbery had taken place at around 3:00 
a.m. Sunday morning. 
Damage was done to a cigarette machine on the third floor of Keenan Hall. The vandalism was reported at 3:45 
a.m. Saturday. 
Between Wednesday night and Friday morning, the radio antenna was broken off the car of Rev. David Wright Bronston while in the D-1 parking lot. A fire extinguisher from Walsh Hall was emptied Sunday night. 

available at Convo 
Students who purchased sea­son basketball tickets may pick them up at the Box Office, second floor of the Athletic and Convocation Center on any of the following days: Tuesday, November 18; Wednesday, Nov­ember 19; Thursday, November 20. 
Upperclassmen, Grad Stu­dents, Lawyers and Married Stu­dents must present the receipt issued when the ticket was paid for at our Ticket Office. 
Freshmen, who ordered by mail, must present their ID cards. 
Important Note: Student ticket orders have already been assigned and filled by class prior­ity. Hence, day or time of day the ticket is called for will have no bearing on seat location. 
Box office is open from nine to five, including the noon hour. 
The Observer is during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 

TUESDAY,NOVEMBER1~1969 
7118 O.&rUfllll PAGE 3 






HPC explores possibilities for hall autonomy 

by Jim Grr-if The Hall Presidents Council last night discussed what sort of basis it should usc in preparing its rationale on hall autonomy. The basic promise behind hall autonomy is that it should help to improve hall life by develop­ing a community within each hall. The presidents thought that students might respect laws more if they are set up by the community rather than by the university. Gerry O'Shaughnessy of Sorin felt that the judicial system becomes a shame if students don't feel they helped to form the rules. He also pointed out that there must be under­standing among the people in a hall in order for it to function well. Tim Mahoney of Keenan brought up the question of who would help a hall which had become autonomous when it is faced with a problem that it can't solve. The council felt that 
Hali Presidents' Council Chariman Tom Suddes and Ron Mastriana 
this problem could be best 
lead the discussion of the HPC's rationale for hall autonomy. 
resolved by bringing qualified 
SMC appoints associate trustees 
rectors and assistant rectors into the halls. These would be people who are interested in, and capable of helping to form a community within a hall. Mahoney also pointed out that hall autonomy is a new 
concept and that it would be necessary to make students aware of what responsibilities 
they would have. 
In the rationale the presidents hope to explain the ideas behind hall autonomy and then list specific problems which the halls should be able to solve them­selves. The main problem at the present time concerns parietal sign-ins but the presidents also plan to list other more long 
range problems. The possibility of letting each hall apply for hall autonomy when it feels it is ready for it was brought up. This idea came about as a result of a general consensus that the various halls 
have  different  capacities  for  
effective  self- government  at  
present.  

Student Representative Ron Mastriana told the presidents that the Hall Life Board review­ed the parietal hour violation cases and had exonerated four of the seven halls being reviewed. Holy Cross, Carroll, and Alumni 
had not yet turned in sign in 
sheets so their cases are still pending. 
Cite need for money 
(Continued from '!age 1)
players signed their votes both on whether to accept a b1.d an d 
'd t th 

whether to accept a b1 o e
c tt B 1 H 'd th t th' 
o on ow . e sal a IS was done so he could accurately determine which if any group
'th I'd! · f 

was e1 er so 1 y m avor or 
l.dl · t k. th . 

so 1 y agams rna mg e tnp.
Parseghian explained that traveling arrangements and prac­tice schedules have not been feelers to see if the Irish were 
.

mterested from other bowl com­
· d d h N
m1ttees. lie ad e t at otre Dame would sh -1I h ave gone to
the Cotton Bowl. J 1 · d th t th d 
.. oyce exp_ame a e e­ctston to ded1cate the bowl reve­
-d' 

nues to the ethmc stu ies pro­
d b h c 

gr~m was pron_1pte . Y t ~ om­mJttee 0 ~ ,FmancJa~ Aid and ~cholarsh!ps suggestion of the 
The Rt. Rev. Msgr. John J. McGrath, President of St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana, announced yesterday that three persons have been named to the College's Board of Associate Trustees. Mrs. Lorraine G. Freimann of Palm Beach, Flori­da; Philip H. Corboy, Evanston, Illinois; and William C. Richards, Jr., of Akron, Ohio, are the new members of one of Saint Mary's major governing bodies. 
Mrs. Freimann, widow of Frank Freimann who was for­merly president and chairman of the board of Magnavox Corpora­tion in Fort Wayne, Indiana, is currently active in onany chari­table and civic activities in Palm Beach. She is a member of the executive board of Saint Mary's hospital, a direo.:tor of Catholic Charities of Florida and the 
Bank of Palm Beach, the American Cancer Society and Benefit for Palm Beach County Mentally Retarded. 
While in Fort Wayne, Mrs. Freimann had been founder of the Board of Junior League of America and had been on the executive boards of the Fort 
Wayne Symphony Orchestra, the Fort Wayne Art School, and the l'ort Wayne Art Museum. 
Mr. Corboy, who heads a Chi­sociation, a member of the Illi­cago law firm at 33 North Dear­nois Supreme Court Committee born Street, holds degrees from on Jury Instructions, chairman 
St. Ambrose College and the of the Trial Techniques Com­University of Notre Dame and mittee and past chairman of the received his LL.B. degree cum Committee on Rules & Proce­
laude in 1948 from the Loyola dures of the Insurance Section University Law School. of the American Bar Association Corboy is admitted to prac­and has held many other profess­
tice in Illinois, before the U.S. ional posts. He has authored 
Court of Appeals, 7th Circuit; many articles for legal journals. the U.S. District Court and the Supreme Court of the United 
Mr. William C. Richards, Jr., is States. In addition to holding president of Bellows-Valvair in memberships in numerous bar Akron. lie has been a charter 

associations, Mr. Corboy is a member of the Loyola Universi­Board of Directors of Saint ty Citizens Board, past president Mary's College and served as this of the Illinois Trial law ers As-body's chairman for two years. 
Midwest Athletic 517 N. Hill St. Only 7 blocks from campus 2329550 
All prices reduced on Hockey Sticks and Helmets -Also Converse Basketball Shoes 

Whatever happened to the fleldhouse ? 
University Arts Council 


determined, and will be left up .to a committee of squad mem­bers composed from all three 
l. 1-lowever he added that 
c asses. ,
he would make the final deci­sion. The request for a change in policy was acted upon favorably by the Faculty Board irJ Control of Athletics, Father Hesburgh, and the Executive Committee of the Notre Dame Board of Trus­tees. Father Joyce said Notre Dame had received no other bids for a bowl game but had received 
Jdea last summer. 
The revenues are expected_ to total about $347,000 accordmg to Scovell but the expenses of
h · -t f 
t ~ tnp WI11 h ave to_ co~e ou o_ th1s sum. Joyce said fmal dect­sion concerning how the money is to be disbursed have not been made. Scovell announced that usual­ly ten to fifteen thousand tickets are available to the visiting team but he thought ten thousand would be adequate for Notre Dame. Five hundred have been allocated for a student trip. 

THB OBSERrJER. 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1969
PAGE 4 

response

The ability to say one's own 'yes' and one's own 'no' and not merely to echo the 'yes' and the 'no' of state, party, corporation, army, or system is one of the deepest and most fundamental needs of man ... The frustration of this deep need by irreligion, by secular and political pseudoreligion, by the mystiques and superstitions of totalitarianism, have made man morally sick in the very depths of his being. They have wounded and corrupted his freedom, they have filled his love with rottonness, decayed it into hatred. They have made man a machine geared for his own destruction. 
Thomas Merton Conjectures of a Guilty Bystander 
There is a matter before us which requires our attention and action: the selective conscientious objector amendment to the present draft law. The amendment would change the present draft law so that a person could object to induction on the grounds that a particular war is unjust, rather than by total pacifism. It is an essential protection of individual conscience; so essential that Thomas Jefferson included a selective conscientious objector provision in the first draft of the Bill of Rights. 
The passage of the lottery bill must not obscure every person's duty to judge the war that he is called upon to fight in as either just or unjust. Not to make this decision is to surrender your conscience to the legislators; for the legislators not to respect your right to make this decision is tyranny. 
So the matter at hand is particularly relevant and important to those of us who face the draft system that does not include a selective conscientious objector provision. A man that does not face the draft has no immediate reason to spend time and energy to protect those of us who one day may be called upon to kill Laotians, Chinese, South Americans, Africans. Our representatives in Congress are not going to act unless strong pressures are placed upon them by the students around the country, but if the United States, theoretically at least, is based on the rights of the individual, the legislators cannot deny our request for the respect of our conscience in wartime. The fact remains, however, that it is that us who must act; if we do not our right will be forgotten. 
The question, then, is not the rightness or necessity of the 
amendment, or whether it is the students who must act, but what 
can be done? 
First, it is obvious that the movement to support this bill must somehow get beyond The Observer and the Notre Dame community, though support from this campus is important. A list has been drawn up of the Senators, Congressmen, syndicated columnists, newspaper editors, and the regional chairman of the Businessmen Against Vietnam. A letter has been drafted and there is a great need for people who have some abilities with the keyboard to type up copies of this letter, which must be sent by registered mail in order to insure that the Congressman receive it. Girls or guys who would like to help with this should call Tom at 1347 or visit him at 427 Breen-Phillips. Also, these letters and the 50,000 fliers that were passed out in Washington cost money, so if you know a means of obtaining funds for a charitable cause (tax exempt), ask them and contact Charles McCarthy in G90 of the Library. 
Students at Notre Dame have certain cosmopolitan charcter that is, they have friends and political influence in every state. If you be~ieve in this amendment, write to your friends at other colleges, wnte to your home newspaper, write to your Senators and Representatives, write to the President. If you know a University Trustee, write or visit him and ask him to speak to the Trustees. The Trustees, faculty, alumni, and members of the Administration have great influence in many organizations, and there is no political reason why they would oppose this bill. Certain members of the Notre Dame community could be the catalyst that gains national attention for this bill. 
Also, a petition will be in the dining halls Wednesday night and Dave Johnson needs girls and guys to help with that, so give him a call at 8907 or stop in and see Dave in 162 Zahm. 
Perhaps people will overcome their political apathy only when they are raped of their deferment and forced to face the prospect of unjust killing, or when their son faces an unjust war. Besides the sixteen Notre Dame students killed in Vietnam, let's consider for a moment the men who have been forced to kill against their consciences in that nation, men who were forced to give up their beliefs to the legislators because there was no other way to go. 
News Editor: Glenn Corso Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Associate Editors: Cliff Night Editors: Dave Bach, Wintrode, Ann Conway, Laura John Knorr Haferd, Jeanne Sweeney, Pru­Headlines: Jim Graif dence Wear Layout Design: Mary Chris 
Layout Editor: Mary Beth Morrison 
Crimmins Layout: Ann Conway, Patty Photo Editor: Mike Murphy Lipscomb Features Editor: Dave Stauffer 
your actions last Monday night when you and the so~called representatives of the class of '72 ratified a constitution which combi.ned the sophomore class of Notre Dame with that of St. . Mary's. While not necessarily disagreeing that such a union would bring about mutual benefits, I feel that you simply do not have the power to adopt this constitution. Last year when the Connell-Stankus ticket was running for office was the last time our class had a chance to voice their opinions on your collective proposals for sopho­more class government. The idea of a merger with St. Mary's was not a part of your platform. Therefore it is obvious that the class couldn't and didn't give 
you their appoval then. 
This year after you succeeded 

Ray Connell as president, the 
merger became a part of your 
program. In order to adopt such 
a proposal, Joe, you advertised 
for interested members of the 
class to help you improve the 
effectiveness of your administra­
tion. You now say these people 
have the power to alter the 
structure of class government, 
based on the fact that they 
"represent" the sophomore 
class. However, the class didn't 
choose them as our representa­
tives, Joe-you did. Therefore, 
they don't have the power to 
adopt a constitution for the class 
either. 
You haven't given us a choice 

about the matter. Instead we've 
been presented with a fait 
accompli. Those who might 
oppose the merger can do nothin 
about it until the next . class 
elections roll around. Then they 
can turn you out of office, but I 
doubt if they could undo your 
work. Joe, you and the other 
members of the constitutional 
convention should seriously con­
sider holding a referendum in 
which the "great silent majo­
rity" on both campuses will have 
a chance to decide if they want 
to adopt this change you ad­
vocate. Class government doesn't 
exist in a vacuum Joe or at 
least it shouldn't.' Bef~re ~ou 
complete the change in govern­
ment, I think you should find 
out if the class wants you to 
take this step. Until then, the 
only thing you can be sure of is 
your own opinion and not that 
'of the class. 
Rich Urda 
Editor: 
Michael Patrick O'Connor's 

letter in Friday's Observer de­
monstrated a certain knowledge 
of history of Theology but none 
whatsoever of the history of 
conservative thought. 
To call men right-wing does 

not constitute a "revolting dis­
missal" nor does the fact that a 
man proclaims himself a rightist 
mean that he is "lost in that 
darkness of conservativism." I 
would advise Mr. O'Connor to 
investigate conservatism a bit 
more lest he be found guilty of 
the same sin for which he casti­
gated The Observer. 
Michael Kelly 
the i ative of the people acting on their own that makes a better world, and in so doing makes better people." -Spi.ro Ap,-new. F~ b.ll 'bl 


Mike Kelly 

G E revisited 
Last week saw the least successful demonstration that I can recall 
on this campus. Despite the concerted efforts of the CPA (Notre 
Dame's own harbinger of The Revolution), the GE recruiters came 
and went and there was no overflow of indi •nation or even interest 
from the student body. Tim MacCarry bitterly co:nplained in his 
column that when he was last on campus "the issue seemed likely to 
be a large and explosive one." MacCarry couldn't understand why 
the students didn't rise up in anger against the management of GE 
especially after ~a careful rationale for a demonstration had been 
circulated the previous week, showing how the university was in 
effect choosing sides between the striking workers who wanted all 
GE operations, including administrative activities like management 
recruiting, to be stopped until they had a new contract..." 
What MacCarry and the CPA didn't realize was that the issue was 
never even close to being a popular one. What the leftists 
demonstrated with the GE demonstration was not the lack of 
political awareness of the student body at ND and SMC (especially 
after the thousands that Sat and listened to them talk about Vietnam 
on October 15) but rather the lack of political awareness on their 
own part. 
The left here is becoming so closed and self-enamored that it can 
no longer relate to the world around it. 
I agree with Tim MacCarry that the rationale demonstrated that 
the University took sides against the union's demand that GE cease 
administrative functions during the strike (if the union actually had 
such a demand), but it did not attempt to explain why the 
management of a company should cease to function because the 
workers have gone on strike. Why? The management can continue to 
function effectively in many areas and allow the industry to move 
efficiently back into proper production when the strike is over. What 
possible motive (financial, legal or moral) would management have .for closing down during a strike? 
But the CPA wasn't aware of the fact that the students won't 
make the assumptions that they make; that Notre Dame and St. 
~ary's are not so liberated that they will blindly follow the party 
!me. 
This lack of awareness of reality does not simply mean that the 
left can no longer lead the campus whereever it wants to. It also 
~eans that the left is no longer thinking properly on many vital 
iSSUes. 
Our Student Body President is an excellent case in point. 
I don't know Phil McKenna well. I neither like nor dislike him. 
His activities have never really bothered me. However when an 
intelligent, reasonably aware student can come out 'and make 
sta~ments as patently ridiculous as those in which he said that 
stUdents should have more identification with the workers than 
management because that's where they're going and described the 
members of the AFL-CIO as "oppressed, " then either he knows 
nothing 0f which he speaks or he is lost in a world of rhetoric which 
allows him to communicate only with those in his own circle. 
Phil, people don't go to college to get jobs·on the line at the plant, 
nor can you describe th~ electrical workers of the AFL-CIO who are 
now getting more than $5 per hour (far more than a full professor 1 
might add, whtch is to praise the management of GE and shame the 
acministration of Notr.~ Dame) as seeking a living wage. 
I should feel gleeful at the growing alienation of the left here on 
campus (if you don't believe me, look around; YR and YAF 
membership is up, the right is active in all commissions and in the 
news media and just check the letters to the editors section of the 
Observer and the Scholastic some time). After all, I am a 
conservative. But the left has done too much good here for me to 
relish its downfall. It has shaken things here that needed shaking. It 
was frequently wrong, but it was on the right track as often as not. 
People, wake up and look around you. And start thinking again! 
TUESDAY,NOVEMBER18,100==9-----------------------------~~~~--(J~~--~-------------------------------------------------P~A~G~E~5 
by Bro. Patrick Carney 

It is with gr-at agony that I to-ay tak-typ-writ-r in han-so that my f-llow stu-nts may hav-th-b-n-fit of th--xp-ri-n-I suff-r-through this morning. 
I awok-to fin-that th-snow whi-h ha-only b-gun wh-n I ha-r-tir-for th-night ha--ov-r th--ampus. B-autiful, thought I as I boar-my bi-y-1-for my morning trip to Topolgy -lass. An-b-autiful it was. W-ll up until I rna-that turn at Washington Hall that is. It was th-r-that in a mom-nt of in--ision I l-am­what Rob-rt Frost ha-in min-in his "Roa-Not Tak-n." lla-I -riv-along th-un-1-ar path, I might not now b-writing this -ssay. Who knows? At any rat-, I saw this I-ss -lutt-r-path off to my 1-ft an-turn-to tak-a-vantag-of it wh-n -v-rything w-nt out from un-r m--hik-, hooks, f-t, an-an-th-lik-. 
Aft-r b-ing ask-su-h p-n-trating qu-stions as "-i­you fall?" I got up q u-stioning wh-th-r to go to -lass or th-infirmary ( whi-~ was a lot -los-r to wh-r-I was). As I stoo-th-r-th-r-ipi-nt of su-h sag-bits of a-vi-as "you shoul-n't ri-a hik-on a -ay lik-to-ay; you might fall or sam-thing," I b-gan to won-r if p-r-han-my fing-r might b-hrok-n. 
I finally -hos-to go to -lass (my t-a-h-rs pi-as-not-) hut th-throbbing pain to!-m-that it might b-wis-to h-a-for th-infirmary as soon as I finish-. An-I -i-bik­of -ours-. 
Quit-logi-ally, th-authoriti-s th-r-s-nt m-to St. Jos-ph's Hospital for an x-ray. I brav-th-snow an­·ang-rous roa-s arriving saf-ly at th-hospital shortly h-for-noon. Parking th--ar in th-availabl-spa-s th-r­wcul-hav-b-n quit-a -hor-un-r normal -ir-umstan-s, but -oing it on a slip p-ry str-t with only on-han-is a f-at of roughly th-sam-amount of -iffi-ulty as -rop ki-king a 75 yar-fi-ld goal-with a shot put. 
But all of this I -i-not min-for I to!-mys·lf that I woul-b-mu-h h-tt-r off if only I ha-th--rtainty that I kn-w wh-th-r or not I ha-a hrok-n fing-r. On St. Jo-'s h-half, I must say that th-wait was mu-h short-r that in th-or-inary -m-rg-n-y war-as I was "wait--on" in a bit I-ss than an hour. 
My touhl-s -am-lat-r. You s-, I ha-giv-n th-m my 




DEC-ED 
phon-numb-r so that th-y -oul--all in th-r-sults to m­as soon as th-pi-tur-s w-r--v-lop-. How-v-r I w-nt st~ight to -lass an-wasn't ba-k in my room until aft-r 4:-0 p.m. In my naiv-t-, l was worrying about how all thos-poor p-opl-at th-hospital w-r-franti-ally trying to g-t in tou-h with m-all aft-moon in th-ir int-r-st to 

inform m-of my w-lfar-. 
This balloon was burst wh-n I finally -all--th-m an­took part in a -onv-rsation whi-h w-nt sam-thing lik­this: 
M-: l was in this morning for an x-ray. At that tim­1 gav-you my numb-r hut sin-I'v-b-n away from th­phon-all -ay, I thought I'--all to s--how I rna--out. 
Uni--ntifi--Voi-: I'm sorry but w--an't giv-you that information. 
M: What? 
U.V.: I'm sorry hut w-ar-not allow-to giv-you that information. 
M: W-ll why -o you think I -am-all th-way -own th-r-if I -i-n't want to know if l ha-brok-n anything? 
U.V.: I'm sorry byt w--an only r-1-as-that information to your -o-tor. Who is your -o-tor? 
M: I -on't hav-on-. I hav-only b-n h-r-sin­S-pt-mb-r an-hav-n't ha-a -han-to g-t si-k y-t. You s­l'm a stud-nt at Notr--am-; 
U.V.: W-ll, w-will t-Il your infirmary. Giv-us t-n 
minut-s an-th-n -all th-m. How -an you argu-with an uni--ntifi-voi-? I figur-I woul-just go along with th-ir littl-gam-. 
B-ing th-sport that I am, I -v-n gav-th-m a full fift-n minut-s h-for--alling. Wh-n I -i--all, I was to!-that th-y ha-h-ar-nothing from th-hospital but that -v-n if th-y ha-, I woul-hav-to wait for th--o-tor to b-in to int-rpr-t th-x-rays an-you gu-ss--it --sin-this was !at-Fri-ay aft-moon, I woul-probably hav-to wait until Mon-ay for him to g-t in. 
So h-r-I sit fumbling with my trusty typ-writ-r. As I -o, many thoughts hav-foun-th-ir way into my h-a-. If I ha-gon-for a t-st to s-if I ha--iab-t-s p-rhaps, things might not hav-b-n so ba-. I m-an wh-n th-y r-fus-to t-Il m-if I ha-pass-or fail-, I -oul-always go out an--at a -oupl-of poun-s of sugar an-s-for mys-lf wh-th-r or not I w-nt into a -oma. But alas, min-is a qu-stion of a brok-n fing-r an-I know of no way of t-sting for mys-lf. If I kn-w for sur-that it was brok-n, I -oul-p-rhaps hav-it put in a splint an-tr-at--. On th­oth-r han-if I was positiv-that it was not, I -oul-just go about my -aily affairs ignoring th-pain -onfi-nt that it woul-soon pass. But in this stat-of un-rtainty, I am 1-ft with th-fat-of fully I 0% of my -igits quit­lit-rally up in th-air. No -oubt th-mor-astut-typists among you hav-gu-ss-th-injur-m-mb-r by now as I -ar-not us-it for f-ar of -ompoun-ing th-fra-tur-whi-h may not -v-n -xist outsi-of my min-. 
But this is not a -ompl-t-ly lost -aus-. You s--v-n though I am totally in th--ark as to th-fat-of my poor swoll-n fing-r, I hav-gain-insight into on-of th­gr-at unsolv--probl-ms of our tim-s. What -Is--oul-I b­r-f-rring to but th-Paul M--artn-y qu-stion? You s-th­r-ason for all th--onfusion r-gar-ing th-vitality of th­famous B-atl-no -oubt st-ms from th-fa-t that th­all-g-automobil--rash took pia-in South B-n-. Th­bo-y was rush-to St. Jos-ph's Hospital whi-h to this v-ry -ay for r-asons known only to th-ms-lv-s r-fus-to t-Il th-fam--sing-r wh-th-r h-is aliv-or -a-. 
by John Yurko 
Dear Frank, 

How arc the kids? How's the wife? Frank, how old are you? Arc you over the hill yet, Zappa? And why did you break up the Mothers, Frank, even if you do have enough material for 12 albums on tape? 
A typical Zappa trick 
got thoroughly frcskcd. Nobody else I know did that, Frank, and so I feel I have the right for some frank (again, yes, I know) answers about this Hot Rats thing, Zappa. It is with some stature that I claim to understand Rubin and the Jets, with its kicks in the ass (if Time can do it, why can't it?) for all the Moody Blues fans. 
Frank, why have you dumped words in 

I'm sitting here with the phones on, Frank, and I'm listening to your new album 1/ot Rats, and that's what's bring­ing up all the questions about your personal life. Frank, it's fanatastic. But Frank, it's jazz. That's right...jazz. Frank, they even wrote you up in last week's Downbeat, for God's sake, not to men­tion that article in Time. Ali of us who've been with you since the beginning are beginning to wonder, Zappa. 
Everybody and his mother (yeah, I know) is starting to like you and your music. Nobody is pounding on the walls anymore when I put you on and let it rip. It's not like the old days, Frank, not at all. I remember when I had first heard Freak-out way back there in high school and those of us in-the-know would all walk around calling each other "Suzy" and start mumbling about Kansas in class. Or even, on We're Only in it for the Money, I recall with pride that I followed your directions on the cover and read Kafka's "In the Penal Colony", and then, and only then, did I play The Chrome­plate Megaphone of Destiny, and yes, I favor of music? l ask, not as a Brogan­type teeny-bop, but as one of the few people who applauded you and the boys at Atlantic City, when you only played instrumentally, and actually like it as music, not just because I mouthed the funny lyrics in my brain as you played the music. Zappa, you're on to some­thing. 
The whole idea about jazz from the beginning has been to pursue the ideal of creating an intense personal experience every time you play, so intense and so personal it cannot be repeated. That's why there have been so many live jazz albums. The jazz man, see, when I think of a jazz man, any way, is Miles Davis outdoors on a summer night, a beautiful night, and there arc like three thousand people spread out on blankets all around the bandstand. Then, as you zoom in, a really tight close-up of Davis, the music really comes up, you're in the middle of Miles' solo, and there arc just tons of sweat pouring out of his hair, and he is blowing sooooohard! And his eyes are squinting tight, they're locked shut, 
because there's thing thing inside him and if he opens his eyes, he lets it get away. 
You're clinical, Frank, you want to cut out the very essence of what makes people make noise, pick that essence up in your sterilized hands, and then hold it up so that finally, the people get to see what you're trying to do. The ultimate in head music. You want us to take the music out of our souls, run it through our minds, and understand it. All Miles wants is for us to experience 1'. If you weren't a freak, you'd be a brain s.Jrgeon, Frank. 
After all that, I finally get to the album at hand. Hot Rats. Typical Zappa title. Typical Zappa cover. Is that one of Warhol's broads on the cover, Frank? I hope not. You stay away from him, or Gumbo Variations," the best piece on the album, is what every guitar player in the country tired of doing Muddy Waters­riff-with-his-fuzz-tone-on wants to do. The tonal expression that is both grating and lyrical at the same time, and the way he bends and sustains, it is perhaps the first instance on record that points the way to what electronic rock is all about. 
The energy waves sent up by Sugar Cane arc almost pure, in that he is trying to dispense with the instrument and just play the amp. He has succeeded in tying himself, merging himself into the energy he creates. The music doesn't simply go through the pick-up, down the wire into i.he amp way down there, and come out. 
I like Hot Rats, Frank. I like it as 
you'll get hurt and end up making T.V. music, the best music I've heard all year. 
commercials. 

But not typical Zappa music inside. It's 
jazz, Frank, and you even have Jean Luc 
Ponty on one cut. It's jazz like I never 
heard before. The pieces are like all 
music, Frank, except for one vocal by 
Captain Beefheart but it's not really a 
I l.k J d 'c 11· (G d h I )
voca , 1 e a u y o ms o c p us 
vocal, since his voice is so strange that the 
effect is that of another fantastic instru­
ment solo. The closest thing I can think 
of is Janis. Nobody really cares about the 
words, just the way she pulls them out of 
herself and twirls them around for awhile 
and then zings them right into his entire 
body. 

So the whole album is music, Frank, 
jazz. And it's only you and Ian Under­
wood who are making most of the music, 
except for sidemen and Sugar Cane Harris 
on electric violin; who I'll get to in a little 
while. A typical Zappa trick. You 
16-tracked it. You broke the un-written 
rule: "All jazz that is recorded must be 
like a live performance in the studio." I 
mean, I'm sitting here listening to the 
drum solo in "The Gumbo Variations" 
and, Christ, nobody, nobody, can play 
the high-hat, the floor toms, the snare, 
the toms on the bass, and two basses at 
the same time. 

What I want to know is, Frank, where did you find Sugar Cane Harris? He is the best electric violinist I have ever heard. (Hmmm. That phrase seems to be creep­ing up a lot in this letter. Could that mean something?) His solo in "The Your production is, as always, fantastic, and the stereo separation is the best on record. I would tell all my friends to buy it, Frank, but I don't have any friends. Not even you. You're too weird. 
A fan, 
John Yurko 

11111111111111111111111111111111 

Richards was cool, but Jagger was the whole show. -DES 


TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1969 
PAGE 6 
• 

Tim Mac Carry 
H HH takes atm at Agnew 
Cleansing the ten1ple
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Dem­administration to stifle free General John N. Mitchell 
ocrats led by former Vice-Presi­speech. They took special aim at amounted to a "calculated at­dent Hubert H. Humphrey de­Vice-President Spiro T. Agnew. tack on the right of dissent and Today Dow Chemical Co. and the Central Intelligence Agency nounced yesterday what they Humphrey said recent state­on tl].e news media." make a return appearance at the Placement Bureau. Students are termed attempts by the Nixon ments by Agnew and Attorney The Democratic Policy Com­faced with a choice this afternoon of going as usual to class, the library, or whatever they normally do on Tuesday afternoons, or of
mittee headed by Humphrey ap­

participating in a demonstration to protest the presence of recruiters
pointed a task force directed by 
from these two organizations.
Leonard Marks, head of the U.S.




CYO to make stand 
There's hardly enough space here to repeat in detail the criticisms
information agency in the John­

A new Catholic Youth the media alike as an impudent of Dow and CIA, points which have been documented many times"in
son administration, to "monitor 

Organization chapter is being group of effete snobs. At last the the past and which will no doubt be repeated again. Put simply, it
attack on or threats to the con­

planned at Notre Dame for those students who arc "dissatisfied with the present environment." The prime movers behind the organization are: Phil G. Kukiel­ski, President; William Locke, Vice-President; John Zimmer­man, Secretary-Treasurer; and Bernard M. Ryan, Spiritual Coordinator and Sergeant at Arms. The groups issued a state­ment of purpose to the Observer which we herewith reproduce in full for the benefit of our read­ers: 
We the students of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame have found it necessary, nay imperative, that a dramatic and forthright stand be made in the name of virtue and truth. Too long have we allowed the long hairs and rotten apples to dictate to us the goals and aspirations of our genera­
tion. Too long have we been 
characterized by our leaders and 

FRANKIES For Dinner 
A Tureen of our famous 
Soup,  Salad,  Bread,  
Butter  &  Coffee  and  
finally  our  choice-12  

ounce strip-ALL FOR $1.75 7 days a week 
which proves It costs less to eat the Best 

at Frankies 
r'OP'"'IGHT J9fi<J,T. & (> 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVE 
CHICAGO 
PHONE:944-7500•ZIP 60611 

time has come to meet the chal­lenge, to take a stand and meet our adversary face to face. We realize our task is nothing short of a crusade. It is our purpose to serve as an ear trumpet to the silent majority. We, the pam­pered youth of the 60's, realize that we are living in the best of all possible worlds. To this end we otter a modest proposal: a positive response to the deca­dence of acid-rock, hard nar­cotics, hedonistic promiscuity, existential nihilism, and indis­criminate iconoclasm. We offer the positive response of good clean fun, time-tested tradition, and a return to the ceremony of innocence-a Notre Dame CYO. 
Anyone interested should call 7755 or 8580 and ask for Bernie. 



Dating service initiated 
Three Notre Dame men have decided to try to bring Notre Dame and St. Mary's closer to­gether. The trio, Bob Patterson, Denny Fitzgerald, and Randy Patchak, after enlisting Eileen Dugan from St. Mary's, have inaugurated the ND-SMC Dating Service. They feel that such a service is needed, because, ac­cording to Patterson, "Every­body has been complaining that it's so hard to get a date with St. Mary's girls, and we've found that forty to fifty percent of the girls at St. Mary's don't go out on the weekends." Patterson also pointed out that many of the girls who do go out have blind dates, which are not al­ways successful. 
By filling out a questionnaire, Notre Dame and St. Mary's stu­dents become eligible to partici­pate in the program. ND appli­cants must submit one dollar to cover service costs. The dating service will match up the couples according to personalities, inter­ests, and other information ob­tained from the questionnaires. 
When the Notre Dame student desires a date, he can call 3810. The dating service will contact a St. Mary's girl and give her infor­mation about. the boy. If she is willing to date the N.D. student he will be notified and given a 
Applications are now being accepted for the following positions: 
BUSINESS MANAGER OBSERVER ACCOUNTANT AD SALESMEN 
Send resume to: 
THE OBSERVER BOX II NOTRE DAME,IND. 46556 
stitutional rights of free speech and free press." 
And Nicholas Johnson, a fed­eral communications commis­sioner, said Agnew had frightened broadcast executives and newsmen "in ways that may cause serious and permanent harm to independent journalism and free speech." Last Thursday, Agnew told a Des Moines, Iowa, audience that a "small and une­lected elite" of television news­men had abused their power over public opinion. He said it was time the networks were held accountable for what they broadcast on the public air waves, and suggested that they themselves attempt to improve the "quality and objectivity" of the news they present. 
resume of the St. Mary's girl. 
This service will cost an addi­
tional one dollar. 
There has been an excellent 
response to the service at St. 
Mary's, but the number of appli­
cations at Notre Dame has been 
somewhat lower than at SMC. 
The service will provide dates for 
the ND applicants this weekend. 
Patterson is confident that the 
number of applicants will in­
crease. Otherwise, the trio plans 
to open a broader campaign for 
the service, after the semester 
break. 
Questionnaires are still avail­
able at 509 LeMan and 622 
Grace. 

Flagg in recital 
Thomas Flagg, Associate Pro­fessor of Piano at Howard Uni­versity in Washington, D.C., will present a recital at Saint Mary's College on Tuesday, November 
18. The performance will be held in the Little Theater in Moreau Hall at ~:00 p.m. 
A native of Memphis, Tennes­see, Flagg was formerly a mem­ber of the Talladega College (Alabama) faculty. He was an honor graduate of Howard Uni­versity's School of Music . 
He holds an M.A. degree from Columbia University. 
comes to this: 

Dow has been the manufacturer of napalm; burning napalm, used by the U.S. army, is highly effective in burning flesh and destroying concentrations of human beings, including Vietnamese villages. Less well-known are Dow's involvements with I.G. Farben, the German manufacturer of gas used in Hitler's gas chambers; the use of napalm against Guatemalan guerillas; and Dow's extensive and profitable foreign holdings. The company's behavior exemplifies two great principles of the American corporate ethic: 
(I) 
Big Brother know best, or as Eichman put it, "I only followed orders." Dow executives consistently maintain they have no responsibility to decide whether the uses to which their product will be put are moral or justifiable; the decision should be left to the government, and no individual or company bears guilt, once Caesar has decided. 

(2) 
Good business is good morals. Some say that profiteering off war manufactures might be questioned; others go so far as to claim that the extraction of profits from foreign countries, with any development being of, by and for rich Americans, is imperialism; the profiteers cry all the way to the bank. 


The CIA is more than an intelligence agency, although the U-2 fiasco and the decision to support the South Vietnamese Diem regime were part of the Agency's "intelligence." More interesting has been its use of labor unions and the NSA to further "Americanism," its successful coups in Guatemala ('54) and Iraq ('53), and unsuccessful funding, organizing, and equipping of the Bay of Pigs invasion ('61 ). The CIA is part of a foreign policy through which the taxpayer's money defends foreign investment and profits of the corporate elite 
Hut, the objection goes, aren't recruiters here as part of the University's "open speakers and listeners" policy? Even when both recruiters have so far ignored requests to speak openly to an open audience, as University speakers normally do? Can an "open listeners" policy be applied to a job interview where any embarrassing questions would disqualify the student? The "open speakers and listeners policy," in fact, speaks against such recruiting, and supports demands that the recruiter speak openly, allowing anyone to listen and ask questions. 
But perhaps the rhetoric of free speech, etc., only covers a more basic reality, and will be ignored when it no longer serves to justify the University's function as a processing center for the kind of "man" who keep operations like Dow and CIA going. This Golden Domed temple is dedicated to the service of God and Truth, yet functions in the service of the American corporate empire. As Christians at a "Christ" an University," we are also dedicated to the example of Jesus Christ: (Mark 12: I 5-18) 
So they reached Jerusalem and he went into the Temple and began driving out those who were selling and buying there; he upset the tables of the money changers and the chairs of those who were selling pigeons ... And he taught them and said, "Does not the scrip/lire say: My house will be called a house of prayer for all the peoples? But you ha11e turned it into a robbers' den." This came to the ears of the chief priests and the scribes, and they tried to find some way ofdoing away with him .. . 
Perhaps there is a lesson here. No antagonism should be wasted on the recruiters themselves; nor should we see Dow and CIA as monsters to be singled out, hut rather as examples. What we must fight is a system -a complex structure of corporations, like Dow, including domestic armaments makers who profit from the Vietnam war, and profitable foreign operations whose security the war defends. And a foreign policy (including CIA operations) oriented towards maintaining and expanding this system of profit at the expense of the Atr;erican taxpayer and the Third World poor. 
It can only lead to more Vietnams -any protest against the war which docs not recognize and attack the cause thus misses the point. Something is very wrong when more money is spent on "defense" by the great powers than the combined income of Asia, Africa and South America. Only we-Americans, and people in the Universities which serve this warmaking system -can allow that system to continue; only we can make it stop. JOIN US! 



THE ASSOCIATION 
Friday November 21 8:30 PM Athletic and Convocation Center 
Tickets on sale TON/GilT in the dining halls $5, $4, $2 
Presented by STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION 
No One will he seated after the performance hegins 
~T~U~ES~D~A~Y~·~NO~V~E~M~B~E~R~1~8,~1~96~9~----------------~--------~---~-()~ PAGE 7 
Letters to the Ed itor 
Swing at Sweeney 
Editor: 
As an "incompetent leader" I 

read with interest (and extreme 
mixed emotions) Jeannne 
Sweeney's column on SMC Stu­
dent Affairs (Nov. 12). It dealt 
with our recent decision to sus­
pend student government meet­
ings. 

My purpose in writing is not to defend student government; that will only further the pur­poseless cyclic argumentation that is all too prevalent on our campuses. Instead, I would like to suggest that the crux of the problem lies in a lack of rt:sponsibility on all sides. 
Initially, the student assembly has been unsuccessful this year because it has failed to redefine its goals and purpose for exist­ence. As the last sentence of the Observer's article on the SMC government suspt:nsion stated, "Student Affairs concerns itself with social rules." and, as of now, there are very few regula­tions left to change. By endor­sing the Black Collegiate 
Women's Association and the War Moratorium and studying the situation of the maids, for instance, we were on the right track toward concerning oursel­ves with moral, vital issues. But we failed in our responsibility to follow these up, and other points, with concrete action. 
Secondly, some members of the faculty, administration, and Board of Trustees fail in their responsibility to recognize the position of St. Mary's in an environment and era that pro­dividual thought and ad. The classification of slacks as "beach attire", and the rejection of stu­dent government's proposal for off-campus housing by the Board of Trustees are two indi­cations of the type of thinking blocking action by student gov­ernment. 
Additionally, the student body as a whole is at fault. If the SMC "leaders" are incompetent, the students shouldn't have elected them, but instead en­couraged and voted for "real" leaders. And, if they are con­cerneu with getting down to gut issues, why don't they let us know? As it is now, soliciting an opinion on anything construc­tive or worthwhile is a major accomplishment. The number of "I don't care's" we've all recei­ved would fill a journal. Many students are involved in extreme­ly valuable pursuits, such as tu­toring. However, the majority are concerned almost exclusively with whom they're dating (al­though whom someone else isn't dating and why is often more intriguing), and how they look. Proof? One meal in the dining hall with ears open. Finally, a particular member of the stu­dent body, the writer of the SMC article, lacks responsibility in the accuracy of her reporting. Our vice-president, for example, has never endorsed or even sug­gested the promotion of drugs or co-habitation. Nor does she pro­pose all of the legislation. The writer of the article would know this if she was a "regular at the student assembly meetings" as she claims; she hasn't attended the majority of the last few 
;.:n~lO:::t:..::c~s_;c::.:'h;.:a:..:.n:.s:g:::eJ..,...:f.:..re:.:e:.:d:.:o::.:mc::.._,..:a:.:n:.::d:.....:.:in:.:---"'m'-'-"e~t ings. She would also be 
aware that her suggestion that 
we promote off-campus housing 
has, as already stated, gone 
through all channels to the 
Board of Trustees 
We aren't doing much "worth the students' support or inter­est." That's why we suspended ourselves. We don't know what else to do that would merit your estimation of "worthwhile." (The Student Affairs Committee wouldn't pass a recent measure on open houses on the basis that we didn't have student support). If the student body would give us either its ideas and backing, or tell us to forget it all together, at least we'd know where we­and they -stand. For a change! 
Sincerely, Ann Marie Tracey 
McKenna's Rebuttal Editor: In a front page Obsen•er arti­cle on November 13, 1969, I was quoted regarding the Student Life Conference. The article claimed that I referred to the issues of the dining halls and the ineffective camp us security as "trite." I did not during that interview, nor have I since April 1 I969 felt or said that either of thes~ issues are "trite." I believe that dining hall service has improved, but that further improvement is both possible and necessary. I have attempted to work through the established channel (the Dining Hall Board established by the SLC last year) to make students' views known. I believe that campus security is totally inadequate. Last spring, upon the suggestion of a fellow student, I suggested to the Administration that Burns 








juggler 
God! It sounds epical. The heroes wresting the Juggler from the High Priests of Ben'Sud. 
Security be hired to do a com­plete investigation of campus se­curity. Although there was some sentiment among administrators that the idea was worth its rather low financial cost, the decision was made that our se­curity force is adequate, and we needed no investigation: I then asked five students who had an interest in the area to present facts concerning the ineptitude of the security force, so that we might disprove the ad ministra­tion theory. As usual for solely student committees, some valu­able information was inaccess­able. Recently the SLC has formed a tri-partite committee to further investigate campus security. I plan to release to this 
SLC committee all the informa­tion we were able to gather. When a student approached me early this week offering the ser­vices of himself and several other students to investigate crime on campus in conjunction with their Criminology Course, I of­fered him any aid that Student Government might be able to provide. 
I mention these matters to clarify my concern in these 
areas. I do not consider either the dining hall issue or the cam­
pus security issue "trite"; in 
fact, I consider the latter one of 
the more important issues facing 
us. 
This particular article was not 

the first time that I, or a mem­ber of my cabinet, has been misquoted. I have spent much time with the Observer reporters, I 11ave repeated sentences, clan­fied misconceptions, etc., to in­sure accurate reporting. Yet the only times that I am quoted accurately seem to be when a reporter brings a tape recorder. 
I do not appreciate being mis­represented in the media. Al­though your sensationalism, has at times been the cause for such misrepresentation, what you choose to emphasize in your paper is your option. However, I hope that in the future you will not misquote me. If you do not feel that you can avoid misquot­ing me, then please allow me to read the quotes before you go to press. Your credibility is at stake as much as mine. 
Sincerely, 
Philip R. McKenna 
Student Body President 

PITTSBURGH CLUB 
Thanksgiving Bus Sign-ups ­Tonight 7:30 p.m. 
Room 2D 
LaFortune 

Subscription: 3 issues only 2.00 delivered to your aoor check p'lyable to the juggler,box 583, notre dame, ind. name address _______ 
I PAGE 8 7HE OBSEill1!1l TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1969 
I f 
I I I 
~ Irish can 'hold their own' in Bowl says Scovell
I 
see ND play Texas. Theby Mike Pavlin ticklish question right away Cotton Bowl Athletic As far as practice plans, Longhorns have a brutallyObserver Sports Editor when he asked if ND had Association. Parseghian expects to set up a effective running game, but thisComing away from received any other bowl bids. 2) Mr. Scovell also added that team committee of co-captains is where the lrish are strongest.
yesterday's 30-minute press When Fr. Joyce replied in the N D was chosen partly for the Mike Oriard and Bob Olson, one Cotton Spreyer is an excellentconference on the Cotton bowl, negative, Dennin asked whether team's glamour and also because other senior, two juniors, and end, but James Street only a one got the impression that ND would have still chosen the it was felt that the Irish could two sophomores to deal with the so-so passer. If Bill Montgomerythere were many and varied Cotton Bowl if other bids would hold their own against any problem. He emphasized that no is successful in passing theaspects to the decision. From have come. After a slight pause opponent from the Southwest decisions would be made until Razorbacks over Texas on Dec.
the sports angle: and a smile, Fr. Joyce said Conference. When questioned as after the Air Force game. 
6, he could play Mike PhippsI) WNDU's Tom Dennin fixed "Yes," bring a "Well said, to why the bids come out before Notre Dame's entry into the with the Irish secondary. 
Father Edmund Joycece, CSC, Father" from Mr. Field Scovell, the season is over, Mr. Scovell bowl picture has given an Of immediate importance forExecutive Vice President, with a the 2nd Vice President of the replied that everything was tied interesting sidelight to an Notre Dame is the Air Forcein with the NCAA rulings which already odd alignment. The Academy, a high scoring outfitprohibit talking to schools Sugar Bowl definitely came out
JIM MURRAY with a 6-3 record. The (,ish will
before a certain date, yesterday. poorly as it pairs the face the Falcons without tackle3) Head coach Ara Parseghian -Texas-Arkansas loser against Chuck Kennedy who needswas asked about the status of Mississippi, a team not even surgery for a knee injuryinjured players who had been leading the SEC. The West Coast suffered against Georgia Tech. 
granted an extra year of representative (either USC or



Mets Big 
Students are seldom angels ateligibility. Would they be able to UCLA) finds itself in an football games, and Notre Dameplay on January I? Parseghian embarrassing position in the fans are no exception, but somereplied that NCAA rules would Rose Bowl. If it wins, it will be of the things the Tech fansallow such players to participate against the Big Ten's


in Vegas 
pulled Saturday night cannot gowithout losing their extra year "second-best" team, rendering unnoticed. Mr. Joe Doyle, in his
© 1969, Los Angeles Times of playing time. This ruling the victory somewhat less column in Monday's South Bend
w o u I d incI ude Greg Marx meaningful. And if it loses, so Tribune reported: "Notre Dame
(broken arm), John Dampeer much the worse to go down will ask Georgia Tech for a letter(broken ankle), and John before a "second-choice" team. 
Cieszkowski (shoulder Penn State (whom I believe to of apology for the conduct of its 
separation). Parseghian said that be very over-rated) should get mostly-student fans and for an 
none of the three had practiced theirs from Missouri in the outburst by one of the players 
or is practicing but that he Orange Bowl. And in what must after the game. A Tech senior 
expected the dictors to okay be the supreme irony, the SEC, player 'used language I've never 
them soon. which looked as though it would heard before against me after the 
Ara then said that he didn't have several teams ready for the game', said coach Ara have any preference as to either Big Four, sees Florida and Parseghian." Doyle also stated Texas or Arkansas, but he added Tennessee paired in the Gator that Parsehian was hit by an that until Dec. 6, his scouting Bowl and LSU left to scramble ice-filled paper cup and that 
would be complicated since both for what it can get. several full Coke cans were teams would have to be covered. Personally, I would perfer to hurled into the bench area. 
Mets are bigger successes in Las Vegas than bare the only act in town to sell out without taking 
Last -second pass dumps Zahm 

declared the winner. Zahm was the first half Pangborn foundTheir lines on stage at Caesars Palace would never set Berle Grace-St. Ed's I 2 Zahm 6 holding the edge in first downs. itself punting from its own 35
skulking in the back rows with pencil and dark glasses. Joe Miller This thriller matched two well disciplined teams for a berth in Thus, despite the fact that G E yard line. On a fine effort Mike
would sue. But the customers roll on the floor if they just nod. Phil the lnterhall championship had the ball, Zahm 's position Norris blocked the punt at the
Foster carries the show, and he's like a guy with three looked good. But with time run­25. OC's Bob Mooney alertly
IS-handicappers trying to win the Crosby, but the Mets won the game. On the first series of audiences when they won the World Series. downs Zahm recovered a fumble ning out the Griffin machine pkked the ball up and carried on the Grace-St. Ed's 30-yard connected with Pat Freeman the remaining 25 yards into the
Donn Clendcnon, for example, will never replace Buster Keaton. But Buster c?uld never send the hanging curveball over in Queens, or line. Zahm QB Paul Tufts passed who made a fantastic catch for a . end zone for the score. An inter­
to Mike Roffino who carried the 36-yard gain to the Zahm 43. ference penalty gave OC two
charge the high-hopper and get the man at the plate. We're in an age ball to the five. Mike Williams From there, on the last play of shots at the conversion and on
when all the athletic hero has to do is speak the language, and he's got more work than an Indian who can fall off a horse. then plunged for the score the game, Griffin retreated be­the second try Dan Valentino
over as Zahm quickly led 6-0. The hind some fine blocking and bulled over for the two. At theTheir dialogue will never make Bennett Cerf wish he'd taken up Grace-St. Ed's defense prevented heaved a perfect bomb to the half each team had a total of­pamtmg, they can sing just good enough so you'll recognize the the two point conversion. Later elusive Freeman who had some­fense of only I 0 yards. ln themelody, they have the meaty part on stage of the girl who gets in the half GE went to their how managed to slip behind the second half the OC rushing game sawed m half, but, never mind. The audience adores them. They passing game behind QB Jim Zahm secondary for the TD and started to click. However, 65~.ou!d sta~d there and p~el their lips with their index finger and say Griffin. A 23-yard swing pass, a trip to the "lnterhall Bowl". yards worth of penalties and aD-a-a-a! and 1t wouldn t matter. 
Griffin to Chris O'Leary, tough Pangborn defense thwart­Tom Seaver, the Cy Young pitcher, has a part you could give to brought the ball to the Zahm 15. Off-Campus 8 Pangborn 0 ed OC's efforts for anotherHelen Ke_ller. Tommie Agee, who catches fly balls on their way to Griffin then fired to Pat Free­The Off-Campus powerhouse score. Pangborn was forced intoorb1t, sm1les a lot. Jerry Koosman, to this day, hasn't said anything man for ten more yards down to continued its drive for the Inter­two fumbles and an interceptionout loud. Ed Kranepool looks as if they just woke him up, and you the five. Griffin scored on a QB hall Championship with an 8-0 and had to settle for 37 yardswonder why. Clean Jones looks as if he just got the take sign. 
sneak but the play was called victory over Pangborn. Poor total offense. The Off-Campus
But the show is wonderful. Phil Foster, who's got this kind of back due to illegal procedure. field conditions and tough de­vid_ory, their fifth of the year
~rooklyn accent that is not only illiterate, it's inarticulate, sounds Working from the nine Griffin fense prevented either team agamst no losses, brings themlike a book by Jimmy Breslin. It doesn't matter what he says, it's fired to O'Leary for the TD. The from mounting a significant of­into Sunday's championshipfunny any way. He sounds like the centerfield bleachers in Ebbets snap from center on the conver­fensive display. The OC defense game a slight favorite overField. "Neighborhood" comes out "Nape-hood" and "You" comes 
sion attempt was fumbled in the scored the game's only TD. In !'........... ......... "'" 
out "Yez" and, if you close your eyes, you can smell the tenements 
mud as the half ended in a 6-6

and the fire escapes and hear a scratchy Victrola playing "Sorrento." 
tie. 

, "Every,b~dy in_ my nabe-h~od," says Phil Foster, "could sing 
Ruggers blastMichigan
In the beginning of the second

.s?rr~nto m Italian. Jews, Insh, Negroes, it didn't (pronounced 
half Zahm was forced to punt

dmt) matter. When it came to 'Sorrento,' we were all Italian." 
from their own 43. The snap was 

The Notre Dame rugby club John Dostal kicked three conver­low and in the mud giving GE'sPhil Foster drifts back to the ghetto every so often to refurbish 
the ear. Brooklynese is like golf. Lay off it for a couple years and hatJded the U. of Mi<.:higan rug­sions as the "B" team finished 
Greg Istre time to block the

you forget how it goes. But it's also like Texan? Put two of them in gers an 11-3 drubbing Saturday their '69 fall schedule unbeaten 
kick. And blo<.:k it. he did,

a room anywhere in the world and, in five minutes, it's like they behind the Stepan Center and in five matches. 
knocking it all the way back to

never left Ft. Worth. finished their fall season with a Standouts Laino, Bommar­the Zahm 17-yard line where his 5-2 record. 
The agencies think the New York Mets show was put together in itto, Mike Paterni, and Tom Hur­
teammate, Ed Conner, fell on

two phone calls the minute Clean Jones caught the last fly ball in Sal Bommaritto led the Irish lehy will all return in the spring
the ball. However, the Zahm

Shea Stadium. But Foster got the idea the minute the team pushed offense by scoring a pair of trys, in an attempt to lead the Irish to 
defense allowed only seven yards

the Cubs into second place in mid-summer. good for six points. Chuck Pet­an even better record. It was booked by Caesars Palace before the Mcts got in the in the next four plays and re­rowski also tallied a try and 
gained possession. A Tufts to
playoffs. The ballplayers are supposed to be getting five grand a John Laino completed the scor­
Boxing

Roffino pass got Zahm out of ing by booting a conversion.
week. The Black Sox threw a World Series for less. 
the hole, but they were stalled

"I used to hate to see ballplayers stand there and have the emcee 
and forced to punt. GE likewise 
say, Now, paw the ground twice for 'yes,' and once for 'no,"' Foster 
was forced to punt, Zahm once 
says. "I didn't think they had to do 'Camille' but these guys here 
again taking over on its own 37. 
turn me into a straight man if I'm not careful. I could turn into Bud 
A George Phelps reception and 
Abbott or have to come out with a fireman's hat to get laughs." 
some fine running by Pat Mc­
The mind boggles to think of Judge Landis spinning in his 
Adams and Roffino brought
sepulchre thinking of a world's championship baseball team 
Zahm down to the GE 13 where 
performing alongside sets of unload-~d dice and honest wheels. The 
they turned the ball over on a 
good judge didn't even like his players dealing set-back on the trains. 
costly fumble. 
You wanna break into show business? Break up audien~.:es? Break A~.:cording to lnterhall rules if up the double play first. You wanna be a hit? Make one. If you ~.:an the game ends in a tic the teams throw good curves, you don't have to have them to headline Caesars play a six-minute overtime. If Palace any more which, like Caesar's Gaul is divided into three parts neither team scores, the team 
-money, minks, and Mets. with the most first downs is 







