
Deficit forces cutback 1n• all budgets 
with the deficit will be
by Steve Hoffman 
forthcoming.

The Student Government Fi­
Budget requests listed 
The following are the budget requests of organizations which have been submitted to the Student Senate Finance Committee: 
(the requests now have to be approved by the finance committee and then by the 
senate) 
Administration Student Union 

Administration  $5,333.00  
Academic Commission  20,000.00  
Social Commission(profit)  (~.000.00)  
Services Commission  -0­ 

Human Affairs and Students Against Racism 
Off Campus Office National Student Association Research and Development Academic Affairs Course and teacher evaluation Judicial Coordinator Community Relations Observer WSND Senate Contemporary Arts Festival Sophomore Literary Festival Hall President's Council Mental Health International Students Orgaaization Notre Dame Business Revenue Finance Club Finance Forum Marketing Club Blue Circle Afro-Americ~>:n Society Amateur Radio Club 
$15,830.00 
. .l3,333-.00 
5,00G.OG 145.00 225.00 1,290.00 2,350.00 1,500.00 50.00 300.00 12,000.00 1,100.00 1,000.00 6,382.00 4,170.00 2,200.00 
500.00 
1,500.00 855.00 995.00 
1,340.00 715.00 700.00 
2,490.00 
1,500.00 
$8b,47l.CG 

BSP proposal nears vote 
hy Jim Holsinger 
The final revisions arc being made on a proposal which would initiate a Black Studies Program at Notre Dame. The Committee 
for Black Students, which met last Tuesday night, should conclude their revisions by October 28. 
Although the vote which was expected at last Tuesday's meet­ing on the Black Studies propo­sal did not come, members of the committee are confident that the proposal will be ready for the next meeting of the College Council. 
The group has been working since the fall of last year to develop an acceptable program in Black St11dies, and their work is nearing an end. 
"The committee's primary purpose at this point is to estab­lish black studies, and toward this primary purpose, the com­mittee has the support of the Notre Dame administration," said Prof. Geofrey C. Henry, Chairman of the Committee for Black Students. 
"The committee with this support will move to the estab­lishment of Black Studies," Henry said. 
The move has been slow, und there are still more discussions and votes before the proposal can go into effect. 
After the Committee for 
Black Students completes its 
proposals, the program must go 
to Dean Crosson and further to 
the College Council. The Board 
of Trustees must review the pro­
posal before it can be properly 
financed. 
In spite of all the red tape, the 
Black Studies Program should be 
in full effect by next fall. 
"I think the members of the committee think that the time spent in discussion and thought so far has been well spent, but now we want to see real move­ment toward the establishment of Black Studies," said Prof. Henry. 
Among the committee's pro­posals is a recommendation that all Notre Dame students be ex­posed to one of several Black Culture courses stipulated by the Department of Black Studies as a requirement for graduation from the university. 
"I am strongly in favor of that part of the proposal," said Art McFarland, president of Notre Dame's Afro-American Society and a member of the Committee for Black Students. 
"In order to get a cross-cul­tural exchange, we should use the educational process of the university," McFarland said. 
The proposed Black Studies Program would offer a Freshman Seminar, and other courses aimed at a better understanding of black people and their cul­ture. 
The largest obstacle to the initiation of the program is now the problem of finding the pro­per director. The hiring of teach­ers and other staff under the new program is to be handled by the director. 
It is his responsibility to de­
termine the principal aims of the 
program, and to co-ordinate the 
Black Studies with other depart­
ments in the university. 
(continued on page 6) 
nance Committee disclosed yes­terday its timporary, general re­commendations concerning the budget for the academic year 1969-70. 
A second meeting of the Committee is shceduled for this Sunday evening when concrete terms for the budget will be finalized before submitting them to the Student Senate for approval. 
Student Body President, Phil McKenna, after meeting with the Committee, acknowledged that budget requests from campus 
o rganiza t ions have reached $87,000. However, he observed, that more than $20,000 would have to be deducted from these requests due to a cutback from last year's budget. 
McKenna also stated that, while all organizations would be affected by the reduction, cutbacks from the various organizations would not be equal. In amplification of this policy, Student Body Treasurer John Coughlin designated two basic criteria for determining the budgets allotted to individual groups. 
"We would like to give more money to those activities which most benefit the students," he remarked. 
McKenna agreed with this criterion, and pointed to the operation of the Student Government and the Student Union as most important, and, consequently, most in need of funds. However, he did mention that opportunities would be made available for organizations 
to  amend  and  increase  their  
budgets  by  submitting  their  
proposals to the Senate.  

Coughlin's second criterion deals with priorities of the Student Administration itself, particularly McKenna's campaign proposals. He commented that substantial funds must be channelled through to the Administration in order to implement these proposals. 
In addition, McKenna admitted that the Student Government will be operating at a deficit, but that the figure of the deficit will not surmount $20,000. McKenna hopes that agreement from the Finance Committee towards operating He also revealed that a 
meeting of the Finance 
Committee was held on 
Tuesday, but could not release 
specific details of the meeting. 
He did say that recommenda­
tions were made to reduce the 
budget to $67,000, but that he 
did not consider this to be 
enough. 

When asked to present his 
views, Committee member and 
Stay Senator, Tom Thrasher, 
also expressed is opinion that 
cutbacks will not be made 
equally, and that a balanced 
budget will be attainable. 

Thrasher agreed that those 
organizations not directly linked 
with Student Government would 
be hurt most seriously by budget 
reductions. 

Asked to comment on the 
outcome of the lengthy meeting 
Tuesday evening, Thrasher 
declined, and emphasized that 
nothing conclusive concerning 
the budget was determined. He 
explained that everything done 
at the meeting was only of 
temporary nature, and would be 
further considered over the next 
few days. 

However, when informed of 
McKenna's proposal to operate 
the Student Government at a 
deficit, Thrasher presented an 
opposing slant. 

"I don't think that it's 
absolutely necessary that we 
accept the deficit," he observed. 
"The Student Government could 
go on a break-even basis." 

Ed Davey, another Committee member and also a Stay Senator, reinforced Thrasher's statement that no decisive action has yet been formulated. 
He emphasized that the final meeting of the Committee was Sunday, and that "any thing might happen between now and then." At present, he said, the budget discussions are focusing around the importance of the particular orga niza !ions. 
"Essentially, what remains are the efforts between the people on the Committee to come to a decision after the past two weeks of study," he noted. 
Davey stated that when the exact recommendations for the budget have been agreed upon, they will then be presented to the Student Senate for approval on Tuesday. 
Krashna cites recruitment program 
by Glen Corso The minorities recruitment program, the first ever tried here at Notre Dame is being carried out solely by students, with a 
faculty udvisor. Known as "RAP," the Recruitment Action Program was started in late September of 
this year funded by student gov­t-Tnment and the admi~'ii.Jns office. The main objective of the program, in the words of Dave Krashna Human Affairs Com­missioner, "is to try to increase the diversity in the student body populous by directly communi­cating with students we would call ' minority students' ". The 
main thrust of the program con­centrates on the recruitment of blacks, with emphasis also plac­ed on Mexicun-American, Puerto Rican, Jewish and American In­dian students. 
The students working on the project arc concentrating m two major geographical areas in the country. The first is within a 350 mile radius of the city of South Bend. This area contains the cities of Chicago, Gary, De­troit, Toledo, Indianapolis and Cincinnati. The second area is what is commonly referred to as the " East Coast Megalopolis. " This includes cities such as Bos­ton, New York, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh. Baltimore and Wash­ington D.C. Krashna stated that they " hope to expand the pro­gram to recruit students in the south and west." 
The students will ordinarily go to the high schools in the cities they arc in and meet with the various guidance counselors through pre-arranged appoint­ments. They will then interview any student who the counselor feels is qualified to come to Notre Dame. The names of such students are culled from lists such as the National Merit 
(t"ontinued 011 page 3) 
~P~A~G~E~2~------------------------~~--------------~71.l.~~~__ 2~~~~~~~~~~----------------------------T~HURSDAY,OCTOBER23,1969
().

'New Colony Six' to play 



Homecoming dance scheduled for Convo 
theme. concern. He said the concert
is under contract not to play because we thought it would be
by Bill Carter 

Guercio said the weekend's would easily sell itself. The
with a non-union group. If the more convenient, less expensive, 
As outlined by Homecoming Committee Chairman Frank Guercio, this year's Homecoming Weekend promises to offer a great number of changes from the format that has been followed in recent years. The Committee has managed to obtain the use of the ACC fieldhouse for the Ball Friday night, opening the affair to up to 1500 couples. Also, in addition to the regularly scheduled concert, a pre-ball dinner to be held in the concourse of the ACC has been arranged. 
The weekend's program will begin with the dance Friday night under the theme of "A Voyage to Atlantis." The fieldhouse will be set up so that there will be a dance floor on both the ground level and the concourse above. The lower level will be decorated as Atlantis below water, the upper level as Atlantis above water. Tim O'Connor as Decorations Chairman will be responsible for all the nautically inspired scenery. 
Two bands will play at the dance with the "New Colony "Seven" can't join the union by next week another band will be substituted. 

Prior to the dance, a catered dinner will be served on the concourse level. The Colonial Catering Service from Naperville, Ill. will provide a buffet meal beginning at 8:30. The cost will be $6.00 per couple. Guercio stressed the added advantages of the pre-ball dinner. "The social commission is making nothing on the deal. As a matter of fact, we'll probably lose money. But I think it's a great service for the students. On a Homecoming football weekend there are so many alumni around South Bend that it's almost impossible to go out to a restaurant and get 
a good meal. The food we'll have will be excellent, and the price is as reasonable as you can find." 
About the facts and figures for the ball, Guercio said he was concerned about the number of people who would be going. The committee has set up the ACC to accommodate 1500 couples but in the lottery held last week there were only 600 entries. Consequently everyone who entered was a winner in the computer selection which took and more enjoyable for the guys if they didn't have to bother with the $12.00 or $15.00 for a tuxedo. We thought the fact that it's semi-formal this year would mean about twice as many guys would want to go. That's why we based a lot of our financing on selling a lot of bids." 
Those who did win bids were numbered so that the first chosen would have the opportunity at the motel rooms that the social commission has reserved. The nuber ot rooms is somewhat limited so that not all those who entered the lottery will get a chance at them, but there are more than enough football tickets to go around. 
Guercio emphasized that there would be a general sale of bids for the dance tonight when the lottery bids will be given out, and again on Monday and Tuesday nights. The sale will be held in the Fiesta lounge in Lafortune Center and the price for a bid will remain at $10.00. 
In conjunction with the "Atlantis" theme for the dance, the theme for the dorm displays will be "The Navy's Last Port of Call" or "A Going Out of Business Sail." Morrissey Hall last event, the Smokey Robinson social commission plans to put and the Miracles concert tickets for the concert on sale Saturday night was his least sometime next week. 
FAO director to speak 
and agricultural positions in the 
Addeke H. Boerma, director­Dutch government. 
general of the United Nations In 1 948 he was appointedFood and Agricultural Organiza­regional representative of FAO tion (FAO), will speak Friday for Europe and subsequently(Oct. 24) at 10:10 a.m. in the served in several FAO positions,
University of Notre Dame's including executive director of 
Memorial Library Auditorium. 
the World Food Program from The topic of the address, 1962 to 1967. As the head ofwhich will be a Cardinal O'Hara the World Food Program, he Memorial Lecture, is "The World earned a reputation for accom­Food Problem: Perspectives and plishment as the agency became 
Possibilities of Action." 
involved in some 250 food pro­Boerrna, a 57-year-old Dutch­jects around the globe, ranging man who formerly headed the from the feeding of school child­World Food Program, was elect­ren to the planting of new fields 
ed to direct the FAO two years and forests. 
ago, succeeding Dr. B. R. Sen of A frequent traveler from his 
India. 

Rome headquarters, Boerrna The son of a Netherlands speaks English, French, German, 
farmer, Boerman was graduated and Italian in addition to his 
from the Agricultural University native Flemish. He has been 
in Wageningen in 1934 and decorated by the governments of joined the Dutch Farmers Or­The Netherlands, Belgium and ganization. From 1938 to 1941 France. 
he was in government service in The lecture, which is open to 
charge of food distribution in the public, is sponsored by the wartime, and spent the next College of Business Administra-, seven years in a variety of food tion. 
Six" the featured performers. 

just 58 seconds to run through. President John Barkett is the The other group selected was Guercio was dissappointed with chairman of the hall decorating
"The Magnificent Seven"; 

the small number. "We also committee and he and Guerciohowever, "The New Colony Six" made the Ball informal this year are responsible for this year's 



ANew Leather 
Research grants total $193,000 
logy of Aedes mosquitoes, which gineering.
A total of $193,830 was given 


for Fashion
carry many of the world's most --$16,500 from the Officeto the University of Notre Dame virulent diseases, including mala-of Naval Research for fund­in September for research, faci­ria, yellow fever, and filaria, or amental research on emittinglities and equipment, and ecuca­elephantiasis. materials by Dr. Edward A.
tional programs, Dr. Frederick Dr. Marino Martinez-Carrion, Coomes, professor of physics.
D. Rossini, vice president for associate professor of chemistry, --$5, I 00 from the NIH forresearch and sponsored pro­will administer a grant of a research fellowship in chem­grams, announced in a recent $21 ,511 from the NIH to con-istry, and $5,100 from the NIHreport. 
tinue research into "Isozyrnes of for a research fellowship in bio­The largest grant to the Uni­Heart Glutarnate-Asparatate-logy.
versity carne from the National Transaminase." The heart en---$2,367 from Texaco, Inc. 
Institutes of Health (NIH), for zyrne is released when tissue for the Texaco Fellowship inthe support of research into the damage occurs in the body's Chemistry.
genetics and reproductive bio­
...by ~ff!-4r
most important organ, signaling --$210 from the Water Pol­physicians of impending danger. lution Control Federation for a
Rev. E. Murray 

Other research grants include study on Current Practices in the following: Water Microbiology," by Dr.

assumes post in 

--$27,992 from the Arch-Mark W. Tenney, associate pro­diocese of St. Louis for a study fessor of civil engineering. In

American Legion 
of elementary and secondary the area of facilities and equip­Rev. Edmund J. Murray, education in the Catholic ment, the General Electric C.S.C., assistant professor of schools by Dr. Frank J. Fahey, Foundation donated $4,784 for history at the University of associate professor of sociology. closed circuit, portable TV sets,Notre Dame and a World War II The Archdiocese also gave cameras, monitor and recorder 
Army chaplain, has been 
$8644 for an analysis of the St. in the College of Business Ad­appointed a Vice-Chairman of Louis Archdiocese sampling by ministration. 
the National Americanism the Rev. William B. Friend, act-The Office of Financial AidCouncil of The American ing director of the Office of will administer two grants for Legion. 
Educational Research. educational programs: $11,000The appointment was made --$18,400 from the Office from Proctor and Gamble Co. 
by J. Milton Patrick, national of Naval Research, for a study of for the Proctor and Gamble·commander of the 3-rnillion "Convection Currents at the Scholarship Fund, and $1 ,300member veterans organization, Ocean's Surface" by Dr. Steve from· the Radio Corporation of and confirmed by its National A. Piacsek, associate professor of America for a scholarship in Executive Committee at its aerospace and mechanical en-science. 
recent fall meeting in Indianapolis. Father Murray is a Lieutenant 

Stepan Center 
Colonel in the U. S. Army Reserve. A specialist in Irish 
the softly flecked
Dance Spectacular
history, he holds a doctorate 
fashion leather that complements
in Person
from the National University of 
the lighter tans and olives of today's colorful styles.
Ireland at Cork. He is a member 
Distinctive. Contemporary. A MUST for the coordi·
of the Military Chaplains Association and has been active 
nated wardrobe. British Tan ... by Douglas. 
The BOX TOPS 
in the affairs of the Ancient Order of Hibernians. In addition 
''Soul Deep" -"The Letter" etc. to his teaching, Father Murray is 
CHECKS WELCm.1E WITH J.D. 
assistant rector of Carroll Hall at Notre Dame. 
The Mystic Love 
The Observer Is publi"Shed dally 
Plus 

BECKER'S MEN'S SHOES
during the college semester except vacations by the students of the 
Tom Rivers, W JVA Deejay
University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscrlp~lons maytse purchased for $ 8 from The 
Thurs. Oct. 23 Admission $2.50 
Qbserver, Box 11; Notre Dame, 


108 S. Michigan St. 
Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
8:00-11:30 p.m. 




Financial problems 
(contmued from page 1) Scholarship winners and the like. Krashna stated that " no such thing as a high risk student enters Notre Dame. The most serious stumbling block to the program is finances. Krashna stated that " at pre­sent the Student Government is providing a very large part of their budget to this program, along with the money from the admissions office's budget." Krashna has talked with Fr. Hesburgh, who reportedly told him that "all we have to do is to present a proposal to him, and he 
will try to get outside funds." 
''If we don't get funds from the university then there is no need for a recruitment program, more pertinently a recruitment program run by students who have their academic life to be concerned about," Krashna de­clared. 
When asked the reason for such a position he replied, "We would be running a very frustra­ting campaign because we are competing with other major col­leges in the nation. We simply don't have the funds to com­
" 

Pete. 
THE O&rEIW£R. 
PAGE 3 

~~"~E~.,.~y,~ .~ P, ~~~"i ~n~w, ~ !h~ ~E, i,!~.~,~of
is very frustrating to bring black and do say that we have very the student government. Krash­
students to a university that for the most part is white orienta­ted. We as recruiters, J believe, work on the hope that things can be changed and that the addition of black students can help diversify the present univer­sity environment." 
One of the maor concerns of all "minority students" is financ­ing their education. When asked 'f f th 't
1 any o e recru1 ers were empowered to offer financial aid Krashna r:.:plied, "We can't say so as a representative of the
d . . . 

a ministratiOn to a student." 
limited funds for blacks. While it is true blacks get a greater bulk of scholarship money, they need significant increase of aids to blacks in order to attract them to this University. 
Krashna admitted that they were working on the principle which he claimed was laid down by Father Hesburgh, namely that "any black accepted to 
Notre Dame will be taken care of financially." The work of RAP is closely tied in with the work done by the Human Affairs Commission, 
na outlined his plans for the year. 
"We will work closely with the foreign student ogranizations in order to give them a relevant voice in the University com­munity. This will be done by allowing their ideas and pro­grams to flourish not only for their own development, but for the community development on 
the__whole."

This weekend the recruiters will be in the homes of students in Chicago, Milwaukee, and Dt:­troit. They plan to visit the east 
Rep ubI ican lead er•-----------------------------·ciiolaslileilirl~inlliNIIiollve~m~bliierii..-­
wants cease fire 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Sen­ate Republican leader Hugh Scott urged the United States Wednesday to fix a firm date for a cease fire in Vietnam. The administration moved "quite close" to it, he said. 
"The sooner the better," Scott told reporters. He said it was time for "an announced 
intention  on  a certain date of a  
cease fire."  
"  . .If  we  proclaim a cease  

fire, invite the enemy to join, 
nd observe it ourselves, we have taken the first step," Scott said. "It might be a small step for us but a giant step for lasting peace." 
Scot l noted that the present American policy of "protective reaction" was quite close to an actual cease fire and his assess­ment was backed by Senate Democratic leader Mike Mans­field in a speech. 
Mansfield, who has long urged a cease fire, said the administra­tion has achieved a "decided shift" by ending "maximum pressure" tactics in favor of "protective reaction." 


Poppies of peace
Tim O'Meilia 
"My God is a God of love and wrath. And you, sir, are a Communist. I know who sent you. Who? I'm not saying, but you know, and I know who sent you. I feel sorry for you, for all of you. You are caught in Communism and you can't get out. I despise you all." We were so standing t 12:30 across the street from the demonstration at the South Bend Courthouse. She spoke loudly. She did not scream. She spoke with the tone of one who was convinced . .. Convinced of her own moral rectitude. 
-In South Bend, Business as Usual, Scholastic, October 17, 1969. 
They sat on the dewy morning grass, looking, silently, listening. Listening to what they had all heard before, but nevertheless hearing it again, listening to the pleas again. And though they did not nod their heads in knowing agreement, their hearts pounded "yes, you are right." 
They heard over again, and again. They heard of the suffering of oppression, of imperialism, of war and of peace, of the answer to war, of non-violence, and of personal suffering. And they heard of justice, of reaching the leaders, of their nation's sin, and of their rightness, and of others wrong. 
And finally they heard, through their rightness, of others "who are not as morally developed as we." And many again nodded. Many believed. Too many. 
* * * * * * * 

Railing and praising were his usual themes; 
And both (to shew his judgment) in extremes: 
So over-violent, or over-civil, 

That every man, with him, was God or Devil. 
-John Dryden, Absalom and Achitophel 
The student stood with some of his friends under the tree, to the side of the speakers platform. His eyes were open wide and his forehead wrinkled with anxiety, but he whispered fiercely and swiftly to his friends. They talk a good game, he said, but the game 
is a sham. No moratorium, but an anti-war raily. 
CONTEMPORARY ARTS FESTIVAL 
presents 




1bM Pili 
~y f?J\\Yl lf@~f[~ 
"TOM PAINE IS A THEATRICAL TRIUMPH! TRULY A SHATTERING EXPERIENCE" 
-San Francisco CHRONICLE 
I II \ ' 
I~
1: I 
I ,, !I 

· I 1
Monday Oct. 27 8:00 p.~. STEPAN CENTE.K . Students-$1.50, $2.00 
I j0 
I
Adults-$2.00,$3.00 CAF Patrons -Free Tickets at Gilbert's, Dining Halls,' 
. '\
'\'1'
and at the door 

I ~ ~ \ 
,, 

Remember how the militant militant with the "Bomb the Cong" sign was invited to speak? he said. He declined and aren't we all good boy scouts and we applaud ourselves, he said, our good deed is done. 
With passion, the student went on, with only a few speakers left, of equal number pro and anti, guess who gets to speak? he said. A sham, he said, a damn sham. 
He threads to the speakers platform, surrounded by non-violent men, and asks to speak against. The rally is not over, there is time left to speak. But the answer is no, enough of dissenters hearing a new dissent. A non-violent man sits at the spot where speakers ascend. His non-violent friend tells the desperate student that he knows force. 
* * * * * 
Hot Levites headed these; who, pull'd before 
From th' ark, which in the Judges' days they bore, 
Resum'd their cant; and with a zealous cry 
Pursued their old belov'd Theocracy: 
Where Sanhedrin and priest enslav'd the nation, 
And justified their spoils by inspiration: 
For who so fit for reign as Aaron's race, 
If once dominion they could found in grace. 
These led the pack; tho' not of surest scent. .. 
-John Dryden, Absalom and Achitophel 

The angry young student, no longer angry but disgusted, seated himself on the couch and waited. His theology professor glanced at him and spoke. It came, as he knew it would. Did the Observer misquote you yesterday (for surely you could not have said those things), he asked. No the paper was accurate, he said, and shut his mouth, and the professor's. 
The other students entered, the young student sat alone, and class went on. For theology is a club, and the young student had broken the rules. He had not been to the mountain. At least not their mountain. 
* * * * * * 
But far more numerous was the herd of such, Who think too little, and who talk too much ... Born to be sav'd, even in their own despite, Because they could not help believing right. 
-John Dryden, Absalom and Achitopel 





At FMC the only thing 
•


we promtse you 
•


tsa great chance 

Whatever your interest-research, design, engineering production marketing-~ou'll find wide open opportunity at FMC Chemicals. ou~ growth, both 1n technological advancement and sales volume has been outstanding. We're one of the four diversified groups that' comprise FMC Corporation's world-wide operations-sales exceed $1 billion. 
We need people for sales with B.S. degrees in chemistry and chemical eng!neering; for process, maintenance, design, Industrial, and mining engmeenng w1th B.S. degrees in chemical, electrical industrial mechan!cal and mining engineering; and for research a'nd develop: ment w1th B.S., M.S. or Ph.D. degrees in chemistry and chemical engi­neering. Our locations span the nation. 

INTERVIEWS ON CAMPUS 
OCTOBER 30, 1969 
Take a Chance Talk with FMC 

for detailed information, write to Mr. G. A_ Mayer FMC Chemicals, 633 Third Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017 


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
Grace rebate 

A month ago The Observer stated that in justice, the University had the moral and legal obligation to give a rebate to students who were displaced from the new dorms. 
We still fee that way -but Father Hesburgh's letter to Student Body President Phil McKenna raises a point which we feel is well taken. 
If a student or his family are in dire need of the rebate money then we can see a reason for Student Government to push to see that his money is refunded. 
On the other hand, between one-half and three-quarters of the University's operating budget comes from alumni contributions and from the interest earned on the University's endowment. Student tuition fees come no where close to covering costs. 
Most students after graduating from Notre Dame somehow contribute to help keep this place goin t ­because thy believe in Notre Dame and think it is a good educational institution. 
Father Hesburgh's letter suggests that Notre Dame men displaced from Grace and Flanner should mirror that generocity and help the University by not asking for the rebate. We think it is a fair suggestion. Since most tuition fees are paid by student's parents anyway perhaps if they would like to make a contribution to Notre Dame. The twenty to forty dollars involved in most cases we feel would not make a great deal of difference. 
Perhaps since this extra money can be actually considered a gift to the University most students would feel better if they could stipulate where the money could be spent, as alumni do in certain instances. 
Since Student Government has been asking the University to do alot of things that the University claims she doesn't have the money to do, perhaps this is the opportunity to specifically designate these funds for a particular project. 
David Krashna, Student Government Human Affairs Commissioner says that the black recruitment program needs funds. The University is looking for funds to apply to various aspects of the black study program, including the salary of a director. Students have been asking for the ten cent shuttle fare to be revoked. 
All of these projects are worthwhile and the money could be ear marked to go to any of them. 
David Breen, Business Manager Photo Editor: Phil Bosco The opinions in the editorials Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. Features Editor: Tom Ehrbar news analy98S, and columns of Til~ News Editor: Glenn Corso Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Observer are solely those of the Copy Editor: David Stauffer Night Editor: Dave Stauffer authors and editors of The Observer Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Copy: Dan Shaw and do not necessarily reflect th~ Ann Conway, Laura Haferd, Jeanne Headlines: Bro. Patrick Carney, views of St. Mary's College, the Uni-Sweeney, Prudence Wear Randy Young versity of Notre Dame, their adminis­layout Editor: Mary Beth Crimmins Layout: Patty Lipscomb Cindy Serve tra~ions, faculty or student 
• bod1es. 
I 
J I 

Well that's the national outlook. And here's our report from South Bend. Thank you, Nanook. 

Chris Wolfe 
Dateline: 19?? 

(API) Wash. D.C. -Local Union 279 of the International Priests Union today expressed "shock and dismay" at Pope Luap IV's recent encyclical which categorically forbids all Catholics to practice euthanasia (the practice of painlessly putting to death those with incurable conditions, such as old age.) 
The union said in a prepared statement that the Pope's reaffirmation of its "rigid, fundamentalist" view was proof of its patent lack of concern for social problems of the modern world. The statement went on to discuss three ideas: 
I. The problem of world overpopulation today has reached a critical stage. Traditional population control methods have greatly reduced the birth rate, but this has proven to be inadequate. The development and widespread application of new medical techniques has tremendously increased life expectancy of people even in under-developed countries. The result is a world population of approximately four billion people, of whom, 23.1% are over the age 
of 60. 
Unfortunately medical techniques for combatting the devilities of old age have not kept pace, so that most aged people are living a semi-vegetable existence. Besides the fact that their lives are not fruitful or happy, they put a tremendous burden on people in younger age brackets who in their early years of marriage are forced to support unwanted lives. 
2. In view of these relatively recent developments the Church's traditional stand on euthanasia is in serious need of reexamination. The vegetable existence of older people raises the question of whether life is always sacred. The Church in the past has based its argumentation of the sacredness of life on the old-fashioned idea of natural law. According to which, human life, by its very nature, must be considered sacred. 
The statement ridiculed this idea, asking "is living without eyes teeth, hair, or even definite rationality something to be called natural? It called for a redefinition of life and its value in the context of the_ generally accepted idea that the supreme value of today's world IS the common good of society as a whole. 
The union was especially critical of the encyclical because a recent commission of the International Union had produced a majority report in favor of permitting euthanasia in certain instances. 
On another theological front Union Chief R.B. Trariness condemned the Pope's overconcern with method, and asked for a consideration which would concentrate primarily on motivation. 
3. Finally, the union statement said that the Pope has no right to forbid its members to practice euthanasia in all circumstances. "The problem", said the statement, "is a matter of personal conscience, and thus the Pope's stand is not binding on Catholics". One incredulous member asked "How can he (the Pope) categorically assert one rule to apply to all the widely varying circumstances which individuals can face?" 
In view of this members of the union have signed, and are passing 
around, a petition which "affirms the right of the individual Catholic 
to carefully form his own judgment in the spirit of the Christian 
message". 
The Union's _courageous stand received approbation from many sources: Cath~hc _and non-Catholic alike. It is only a portion of worldwide rejection of the Roman Pontiff's fundamentalist approach to the porblems of the modern world. 


Unintelligible tirade 
by Pat Clinton 
This started out to be a review of the album "The Moonstone" by Tommy Flanders. It is, but cirl:um­stanl:es have forced it to be more. Following is a month end statement on the state of music, Mike Kendall, Jimmy Brogan, Observer criticism in general and sundry segments of the universe, including the first occasional unranked five. 
first, buy the Tommy Flanders record and listen to it three times. Then love it, cherish it and give it to your friends on special occasions. The songs are nice, the playing is relaxed but together (Langhorne and Rosmini get together on the disc for the first time since "Steve Gilctte"). There is no point in wasting your time on longwindcd explanations beyond saying that and adding that this is the vocal sound (about three shades off Hardin) that AI Kooper has failed to find throughout three or four albums. Buy it. 
Flanders, of course, sang lead for the old Blues Project group, father of Sea Train and Blood, Sweat and Tears, which brings us to the question of why Jimmy l:lrogan, an upstanding if not outstanding human being, insists on inflicting drivel on us in the name of creative l:riticism. Henehan's Jetter is right about the Chambers Bros.. Regarding l:lS&T: They are an overly -slick, money grubbing, minimally creative group and they have degenerated vastly since Kooper (who begins to bore me with his al­most good records and his truly wretched records) left. Clayton-Thomas will soon drag them down to the level of singing "Young legs are something to sec/young legs are hair-free and carefree" like Gary Puckett. 
However, Jim, ir you must ~:ritidzc (I suppose you 
must) and you must be a teeny hopper at heart (I 
fear you will), have the ..:ommon human dcl:enl:y not 
to praise a group for sounding the same in l:onl:crt as 
on rel:ord. There is no innate virtue in it; indeed, if 
wncert and album sound arc identil:al there is little justification for having both. One l:Cases to be an art form (you arc dealing with art, you know) and begins to be a photographil: (in the worst sense) rcwrd of the other. At any rate, rol:k begins to bore me. 
Not, however, to the extent that I will let Mike Kendall pass Unl:hallengcd. Mike's l:ritidsm is jazz oriented and condescending. Admittedly, rock is a primitive art form (please read with emotional 
neutrality, the term is desl:riptivc not j udgmenta!) but this does not excuse dealing with it as an inferior art form. It has its own conventions, rhetoric, etc. and these are as complil:ated and rigid (though not logically wdifiablc) as the allegedly higher "serious music". Jazz and rock are separate and not, to any serious analyst, growing into one, or even getting 
noticeably doser. That Wes Montgomery was high on rock charts is simply accounted for by saying (without fear of any telling rebuttal) that the huddled masses yearning to boogaloo liked him for his smoothness, the fact he often did instrumentals of songs they knew, and the fact that he sounded bland to them. 
Rock, according to a theory which I have not yet finished stealing, is vocal music; and, to use Partch's distinction, it is concrete vocal music--the words are essential, mere nonsense sylables would be insuf­ficient. Jazz is the abstract, essentially instrumental music. The fact that rock lyrics are often inane is irrelevant; the tunes are inaner. Without words the socio-dramatic event that great rock is (or is yclept) wonld fade in a whirling cloud of major sevenths . 
There arc no great rock instrumentalists, no great rol:k instrumentals. Chul:k Berry played superb gllltar, but he sang and danced at the same time. There arc instrumentals that hit the charts, but none of them even approach the aesthetic beauty of, say, "My Boyfriend's Bal:k." That Clapton, Hendrix, et. a!. arc not great instrumentalists is proven by the fact that their records have never approached the phenomena these men arc in concert. In conl:ert (this is stolen in part from a Downbeat article on the Mothers--read it) they do not just play their instru­ments, they make them sing. Notice that the "great" rock guitarists have multiplied greatly since the devcl~pment o_f fuzz tone and feedback techniques, tc~hmques wh1ch make the formerly twangy electric gu_Ita~ capable of almost human sounds. Thus, (and thts IS what made me pick up the idea in the first place) Hendrix creates a living breathing monster out of his guitar and is forced to kill it on stage. Freaky 
huh? ' The trouble, of course, is that the Blues revival 

(which ticked off every real blues lover I know) has 
passed its peak and the plastic people will probably 
attack the holy bastion of bluegrass next. Hell, I like 
bluegrass. Can't the pseudo freaks just blow grass and 
leave music alone. Soon every fourteen year old chick 
in the country will dump her Robert Johnson records 
that she never really dug anyhow, buy a banjo and 
groove on Charlie Poole. 
Raga is out; gamelan is in. 

The first occasional unranked five are: The Ameri­
can Brass Quintet's album on Nonesuch; Ballads and 
Breakdowns of the Golden Era (Columbia); Some­
thing New by Bill Evans and Jeremy Steig; The Wild 
BUll by Morton Subotnick (Nonesuch); and The Real 
Bahamas in Music and Song (Nonesuch Explorer). 

Most of them are not new, and I have no intentions of defending them as the best r :cords ever; but 1like them and I am vain. 
Finally, I do have an opinion on the thing about Paul McCartney. It is clever if he is alive; but if he is dead, the artistic implications arc frightening. If he is dead (which I fear he is not) then those four longhairs ~rom Liverpool have managed to make a real death mto a work of art. The last few years of their career sta~d _as a single work not about death, but of death. Th1s IS the overwhelming merging of creation and destruction which they probably haven't pulled off. 
A shame. 

Mefs --walrus? 
THE NEW YORK METS ARE DEAD! 
Connect the zeros from the box score of the final World Series game and you form the plot of a graveyard in the Bronx. 



The plight of the T .A.'s 
Ph.D. training -competence in his sub­vanced study which qualifies him as a apparently never paid, only "awarded" ject. (i.e., worker for). And the seller can claim
This is the final article in a series professor at a Ph.D.-granting institution. Payment, of course, is the other matter At Notre Dame he soon learns that the to be spending whatever he claims the
describing the numerous difficulties 
in which the T A is subjected to academic price of this freedom is the exploitation item is worth. Yet no one, I think, would
which face the Teaching Assistants here 
freedoms. His stipend, it appears, is of his students. argur that the case v<1lue assigned to
at Notre Dame. The English department 
treated as an award (although the federal To achieve respectability in its dealings graduate tuition is fraudulent, and this
has served as a model. 
brings us to the root of the T A's misfor­tion, taxes it). One can't expect to be Dame must pay $700 more for the tune. It is a commonplace that the fcc paid for services received, nor can he teaching of one class than it now pays for government, not buying this interpreta­with graduate assistants in English, Notre paid by an undergraduate does not meetby James Walton 
the cost of his education. The university periodically to accomodate the rising cost be $3600, and subject to periodic in­require of an award that it be inl:reascd two. The stipend for two classes should 
hopes that alumni l:ontributions, match­of living. creases to meet rising costs. Then the ing grants, and other revenues will makeA wall of cant still separates the It's no news that everything has been apprentice professor will be able to up the difference. The graduate studentgraduate teaching assistant from one of represents another means of breaking
going up for a long time: wages, groceries, choose, according to his circumstances,
freedom's elementary benefits-payment for services rendered. His services, construction--and that tuition fee which between more money and less teaching -even: he can be used as cheap labor. The the freshman pays in order to help a choice rendered impossible by the 
English T A l:arries two-thirds of an aver­through an extraordinary freedom on his age, full-time teaching load for one-fifth
"train" his teacher. But not the T A present workhouse rates. stipend, which has remained at $2100 for to one-seventh of a full-time salary. Like
employer's part, arc interpreted as ser­
vices received, as teacher's training. And It might be argued that the teaching
four years. his teachers, he might have a family, lack 
Notre Dame is lavish with this type of assistant actually makes $3770, since the savings, be ill-suited to construction worktraining, dealing out twice as much of it Ironically, the university's niggardly putative value of his tuition is $1670(the and impressively gifted in his field. (Thatas stingy universities like Cornell, Stan­policy toward T A's, or simply its lack of price of four courses, which the T A last gives him a right to be here: if theford, and Northwestern. The TA in En­funds (either of which gives the lie to its hasn't time to take). lie differs, however, profession were still reserved for gentle­glish at Notre Dame gets to teach two pretensions to greatness), sets the in­from the other bans vit•ants in the $3700 men's sons, all undergraduate classescourses for the price of one -to corred terests of the graduate student against bracket in that he never sees that 44% of would have to be held in the stadium.) Iffreshman themes in sets of fifty instead those of the graduate faculty. A faculty his income. It has already been exchanged so, he has little chance of developing hisof twenty-five -while enrolled in two or member requires freedom from heavy • for him at the company store, where gift in graduate school, where he isthree graduate courses where, under the schedules, oversized classes, and (in most prices are set by his employer. 
overextended in his duties and drained bynearly paralyzing pressures imposed by instances) freshman tead1ing if he is to Ph. D. training is indeed a curious com­finandal anxiety.

the system, he pursues the other goal of devote himself adequately to that ad-modity. It has a dollar value which is 
~P~AG~E~6----------~-------------------7N,==~~0Bs.!RV,El -----·----------------'------­
INTERESTED IN THE STUDY OF LAW? 
Me Farland backs required Black Studies 
A representative of the 
(continued from page 1)

Washington University School 
One of the decisions still to be
of Law (St. Louis) will be on 
made on the proposals is that of 
campus October 27 to talk to 
allowing a student to major in
students planning to enter 
Black Studies without another
law school upon graduation, 
major.

or thinking about it. Make 
The committee still has not
appointments by signing up 
decided whether students will
on lists outside Room I01 
have to take the 24 hours of
O'Shaughnessy 

credit required in a particular 

Cra.f'tsmcn in Optin 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGlASSES AND CONTACT LENS{S THE SHERLAND BLDG.··132 S. MICHIGAN ST.-·1\.X::;tral :~-14i:>l'l· 


M~in Office: 13!> N. Waba~h Ave.--Chic;oQn 
major in addition to Black Stu­dies courses. 
Whichever way the committee decides though, it is the director of the program who will have to coordinate the Black Studies curriculum with the traditional academic disciplines. 
Close co-operation with the other departments of the univer­sity will be necessary when the proposals are finished. 
The Committee for Black Stu­dents will determine the qualifi­cations for the director. Even after they have submitted a finalized program, until a direc­tor is found for the program, their work is not over. 
Mr. Thomas J. Musial, secre­tary of the committee, indicated that the committee will want to interview prospective candidates for director. 
There are still two major tasks elude their revisiOn of the pre­facing the committee. Through sent proposal by its October 28 this year the committee must meeting, and shortly thereafter establish the Black Studies Pro-· the committee would invite Dr. gram, and specify the qualifica­Thomas Steward to assist the tions for the director. committee in costing out the 
The Committee for Black Stu­proposal," said Henry. dents must see their proposals Dr. Thomas Stewart is a spe­through the College Council by cial assistant to Father Hesburgh making more revisions as amend­who is working on the problem ments are added. of finding a director for the 
"The committee should con-program. 

Bradley to leave post 
Francis X. Bradley, Jr., will As Assistant Secretary, Pro­take a leave of absence from his jects, Bradley will act as liason post as Assistant Dean for Re­with government agencies, foun­search and Special Projects at dations and other groups which the University of Notre Dame, sponsor special studies and pro­to become the Assistant Secre­jects undertaken by the ASEE, tary, Projects of the American as well as assuming responsibility Society for Engineering Educa­for the overall management and tion (ASEE) . supervision of these projects. 

Just drop a ~ilm cartridge 
into a Kodak lnstamatic camera and Ellie's yours. For keeps. In beautiful 
color snapshots or color slides. Indoors, pop on a ~lashcube. 
What could be easier-r 


Kodak lnstamatic®color cameras. From less than sto. 
Begging to differ 
Editor: 
In refercm:e to Mr. O'Reilly's letter which said quote, "My (;od, Chris Wolfe has forsaken the democratic processes as a proper means of determining lines of action," and quote, " ...'dissenting minority' on this campus now a proper description, I suppose, of the YAF's and their sympathizers." 
If you call the moratorium a mandate for action, I beg to differ. With an enrollment of over 6,500 and crowd estimates of 400-2,000 (generous) your mandate seems to fall short of the democratic majority you feel you have attained. 
Perhaps you wish to call people who differ from your view as " ... flag wavers ad nauseum... " --that is your perogative. I feel that the U.S. has too long solely borne the guilt of the Vietnam War. While the V.C. and N.V.A. have been portrayed as the liberators of South Vietnam, they have burned, tortured, and murdered their people. Tell me, Mr. 0' Reilly, do they have a 
different God? Ray Maddalone 801 Flanncr 
Time lag 
Editor: 
1 read with interest your ar­ticle "8000 bleed, sweat, and cry" in the Observer and thought it to ring true, with only one exception. You stated: "So the people who are silly enough to believe what is written on their tickets and arrive on time, have a long boring wait for the wncert to start." I agree that people should not exped to see a concert start on time, but to call those people 'silly' who do arrive early is distasteful. We can be thankful that some people do arrive early, or else all the people arriving fifteen minutes before they think a concert would start might cause a hell of a traffic jam. As for a 'long boring wait' I think people who arrive early by nature have found ways to com­pensate for the interval. 
If at all possible, we should start the concerts at 8:30 p.m. To go one step further, two of the regular football season con­certs should be moved to the spring calendar, and if they need be replaced, then by parties. 
THE_9B[~~ 




Letters 

These two concerts would not he as big a moneymaker as they normally would be, but this so­lution would help to balance a rather lobsided soda! calendar. 
Pat Meter Motivation Editor: I am a Notre Dame alumnus and I must confess that no article in the Observer ever moved me enough to write a letter (although Chris Wolfe's articles came close). However, I found Tom Treanor's article on the CPA and the Moratorium stimulating enough to precipitate a letter. After sifting through paragraph after paragraph of unconnec.ted thoughts and poorly constructed sentences, I finally found the point of the article. Mr. Treanor states that the Moratorium people are not concerned with the Vietnamese people. "They simply want us (note the word us) to get the hell out." It seems to me that it is a deep concern for the people of Vietnam which motivates CPA people to expend their time, energy and money Oli. such projects as the Moratorium. The article simply reflects his lack of concern and his lack of awareness. How about 
Motel Rooms 
Motel Rooms for Homecoming will be distributed tonight in the Fiesta 
Lounge. Bid winners No. 1-75 or their representatives (with ID) must appear between 7-8 p_m.
_, 

8 p.m. on: 1st come, 1st served. 
(tu~tom 'leatber ~oob~ JOOabe to ~our ®rber 
~anbal' 'utbt 'kirt~ 


tuatrbbanb~ , antique~

"}u~ t §bout" t\Jtr!'tbing tn 
jt\utlr!'

tbi~ picture is for saIt at: 



'lratber JLtb. 
118 ~out 


PAG~ 7 

--~--­
-·------------, 
REDISCOVER 

TAPE 

RECORDING 

some thing constructive next time. Peace, Michael Powers 
Paying the rent Editor: 
I am amazed at the pathdic nature of the University's re­sponse to the students who want a dormitory rebate. Wanting what is rightfully theirs is not necessarily "eye for an eye" justice. Pathetic rhetoric just will not do. 
The T A plight is similar. Be­cause of its financial blunders, the University cannot afford to pay us a living wage. Whose fault is this? Biblical rhetoric and the "tradition of generosity among 



/'lore/co·

Notre Dame students" will not 
150

pay rent. 
REGULAR $64.50 

I think it is time that the University accepted the responsi­bility for its actions and errors. If not, then students must act in 
tu.•, $5997 loco parentis and help them on­to the right path. Implementa­II US£ YOUR BANK CARD! ~ tion will begin with all students demanding the money that is CH.H.R.L%E"S 
CAR FURNISHINUS

due to them and supporting the T A demand for an adequate OPEN OAJLY 9-6 
w 
salary. ~AT. 9a.m. to 5p.m. Sincerely, Ronald c;. Brander PH. 287-7218 English Department 
774 Lincoln East 
OBSERVER Staff Meeting 
For all personnel 

Fridc.v at 4:30. This includes layout, · sports, mg · ht 'd'tl rs. cop\'
proofreading, news, £ o . staff and ePeryone else excluding members of the business staff 
If you cannot attend , contact Guy DeSap· 
before Friday 



. k I ' '' ~_. I"

Here's the first ma eup t 1at cant tCC< 
more oil to oily skin, because there's no oil in it! That means it won't clog pores, never changes color. Holds hack oily shine longer than any other makeup! Medicated '~lowing Lotion-Makeup:__in 7 shades 
that smooth on like silk. Natural Wonder ~Flowing Lotion-Makeup' 
Availahle at: St. Mary's College Bookstore 




THB OBS.ERI!IIl_ 


Adaptibility key concept for frosh 
by Jim Donaldson These position changes are 270) and John Kondrk (6'3, 195) arc both top-notch passers flanked by guards Joe Borbely most evident in the defensive 260), combined with ends Tom and excellent varsity prospects." (6'1, 215) and Eric Bottcher
Observer Sports Writer 

backfield where Coach Stock Freistroffer (6'4, 235) and Bob Dennis Gutowski and Mike ( 6 '2, 222) and tackles Tom Bee­will start three former quarter­Creaney (6'4, 225) hope to con­Webb will round out the starting cher (6'4, 225) and Herb Briick Versatility is a mark of a good 
backs. Terry Garner (6'2, 185), tain the Volunteer backs. backfield for the Irish. Both run (6'4, 243).football team. Having boys who 
Dan O'Toole (6'1, 180), and Coach Stock was optimistic as hard and were described by Despite his team's inexpe­are able to play a number of Ken Schlezes (6'3, 187), who all to the Frosh's ability to put Stock as "typical Notre Dame rience and the inevitable first positions makes a coach's task directed potent passing attacks points on the scoreboard. "Our backs-not real fast, but tough to game mistakes Coach Stock said, much more pleasant and that's in high school, will now concen­offensive outlook is very good. bring down." "A Notre Dame team plays only what Mike Stock, in his first trate their efforts stopping the We have good receivers, power­Center Dave Drew (6'2, 214) one way-to win, and we'll be year as Notre Dame Freshman aerial game. ful runners, and are strong in the anchors the offensive line and is after a win on Saturday!"
football coach, will be smiling "Pass defense is always a dif­quarterback oosition." 
when his charges take the field ficult task to master," Stock Stock says of halfback Larry Saturday in Knoxville, Tenn., 
said. "Our linebackers will be Parker ( 6 ', 194) that "He had as for their first game in the uni­touch against the run but it fine a set of credentials as any JIM MURRAY 
form of the Fighting lrish, op-1 takes time for them to get used high school back in the countryposing the U. of Tennessee fresh­
to working with the deep backs last year. He has good hands, man eleven. to prevent the pass." good moves, power and speed.""It's my job to put the best Handling the linebacking Stock is no less optimistic 
Don Cherry:

22 boys in the lineup," Coach chores will be Jim Musuraca (6', about his passing attack. "Split 
Stock said. "A number of start­205), Pat McGraw (6'1, 215), end Willie Townsend (6'3, 186) ers on Saturday will be at a 
Jim O'Malley (6'2, 210), and has the potential to become one 
different position from the one of Notre Dame's greatest pass 
Singer and Swinger
Tyrone Robinson, who was not 

they played in high school. For­on the original frosh roster. catchers," he said. "He combines 
tunately, I've got a tough, versa­The pressure on the pass de­fine speed with excellent re­tile, group of boys who were 
fense may be lessened somewhat ceiving ability." able to adapt to these changes. I if Coach Stock can get the kind "I think we've got some boys feel that we now have the best of pass rush he expects from a who can throw the ball to him 
© 1969, Los Angeles Times


~································· 
people playing at their best hefty, but quick, forward wall. also," Stock said. "Jim Brady 
positions." (6'2, 195) and Jim Bulger (6'5, It was the same old story. He could have been one of the
Tackles Dick Maciag (6'5, 

half-dozen best athletes in his sport-but he couldn't give up the nightclubs. He did what Walter Hagen was supposed to have done-walked
McCoy honored by UPI 
directly toward the first tee in evening clothes. He was wearing an alpaca or a tuxedo. He either had a glass in his hand, or a 9-iron. He 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (UPI)­replacement for OJ. Simpson, speht all day in the sun-and all night in the spotlight. He spent the For a stellar performance in but I don't think anybody could day smelling the trees, the flowers, the greens-and he spent the Notre Dame's 14-14 tie with find a replacement for McCoy." nights smelling perfume and booze. Southern California Saturday, McCoy blocked a Southern Girls threw themselves at him. Some, he caught. But he preferred humble Mike McCoy was named Cal punt which his Irish team­birdies to birds. He didn't have much time for courtship. The minute UPI Midwest Lineman of the mates recovered on the USC he finished a round of golf, the band would strike up in some Week Wednesday. McCoy was seven yard line, setting up the roadhouse nearby, and he couldn't afford to miss that. the key man in the Irish defense. tying touchdown for Notre He came out of Wichita Falls in the 40's, and fatherless since age 
"Being lineman of the week is Dame. He also added a blocked two, and raised by a mother who took in sewing, he was that offense a real honor but I want to share pass attempt and numerous tack­against nature -an introverted Texan. He played baseball and golf it with ten other men. On defen­les everywhere on the field. but he gave up baseball because, in golf, you didn't have to depend se no one man can do it all by The 274 pound tackle added on someborly else. himself, and don't forget we that as much humility, "There He began by shagging on the practice tee for Jimmy Demaret and, have six sophomores starting," are three sophomores in the line as baseball player, he thought you had to CATCH the 2-iron shots. McCoy said. with me and because they did "I only missed three out of 24," he tells you. Which tells you 
USC coach John McKay spot­their jobs well along with others something about r · 'maret's accuracy in those days too. lighted McCoy in his game plan. on the punt formation, I was He says he 1. ld the peaches and butter-bean canning "They have that McCoy in the able to get loose. It clearly was a championship of Nor. Texas and, when asked how you can peaches line and I don't know what to team effort." and butter-beans, he an:, •ers: "Well, first, you go pick 'em ... " do about him except to run at "He played a hell of a game," The tragedy of Donald Ross Cherry's life was not that he couldn't him." added Notre Dame coach Ara play golf, it was that he could sing. From the time they found that 
"I'll be glad when that fellow Parseghian. "He did a great job out, the reason he wasn't selling records was probably because he graduates," McKay conceded af­holding up our interior line was making them. 
ter the game. "We could find a area." He never had a lesson in his life-golf or voice-but he was too good at golf to give it up for singing. And vice versa. God gave him a swing and a beat. 
Nobody has enough concentration to be both a Frank Sinatra and 

Notre Dame five -game statistics 
a Ben Hogan but Don Cherry made the cut in both professions. He chased Arnold Palmer to Arnold's first big tournament win,
TEAM STATISTICS TOTAL QFFENSE 
the National Amateur in 1954, when he had Arnold three down and 
NO OPP Plays Yards Avg. 
six to play. Don Cherry was one of the first victims of the
TOTAL OFFENSE 1,986 1,243 Joe Theismann, qb 173 1,011 5.8 
Total Plays soon-to-be-famous Palmer Charge. He was a Walker Cupper. He
399 351 Ed Ziegler, hb 60 • 305 5.1 
played tense matches with the likes of Gene Littler, Bob Rosburg,
Yards Per Game 397.2 248.6 
Denny Allan, hb 68 261 3.9 
NET YARDS RUSHING 1,086 511 Frank Stranahan, and won his share. When he turned pro, he led the INDIVIDUAL PUNTING
Rushing Plays 280 213 Dallas Open after one round. He was one of five players who still has Yards Per Rush 3.8 2.4 No. Yards Avg. a shot at Palmer when Arnie won his Open in 1960. The course,
Jim deArrieta 22 779 34.9
Yards Per Game 217.2 102.2 fittingly, was Cherry Hills and it almost was as Cherry went over the
Jim Yoder 1 49 49.0
·NET YARDS PASSING 900 731 
hills at 3 under par till the 17th of the final round where a I 7 put
Team 1 0 0.0
Attempts 119 138 
hi~ our of contention at 286.
Completions 70 53 PASSING 
Meanwhile, back at the recording studio, Don had started out too
Complete Percent . 588 .384 No. Cmp. Int• Yds TO Pet. 
bashful to sing in FRONT of a band--or even in front of a curtain.
Had Intercepted 9 9 Theismann 114 66 9 863 8 .579 
Jan Garber didn't know this when he picked Don up, but, seven days
Touchdown Passes 8 4 Etter 5 4 0 37 0 .800 Y ants Per Game 180.0 146.2 later, he gave Don $39 to go back to Wichita Falls with the
PASS RECEIVING 

INTERCEPTIONS MADE 9 9 observation he didn't want a band singer who was going to phone in 
No. Yds. AVG TO 

Yards Returned 87 102 his solos.
Tom Gatewood 26 385 14.8 4 
PUNT RETURN YARDS 115 73 
Bill Barz 15 154 10.3 2 Don has (and has) 'a range of 2.2 octaves which puts him up with Number of Returns 16 15 Dewe., Poskon 12 139 11.6 0 the big hitters of THAT game, too. When you can wander up and 
Average Return 7.2 4.8 
Ed Ziegler 6 100 16.7 2 down the keyboard 18 notes, that leaves you, musically, with an
AVERAGE PUNT 34.5 34.5 
Denny Allan 5 77 15.4 0 easy wedge to the green. 
Yards Punting 828 1,308 Nick Furlong 2 14 7.0 0 
He scheduled club dates to coincide with tournaments. So, it was
KICKOFF RETURN YARDS 229 359 
Andy Huff 2 8 4.0 0 25
Number of Returns 16 a good thing he wasn't a ballet dancer. He got $35 for his first
Jim Yoder 1 9 9.0 0 
Average Return 14.3 14.4 800,000-seller record. But he didn't need the money in those days.
Mike Crotty 1 5 5.0 0
PENALTIES AGAINST 15 29 Not when there were so many guys out there with fast backswings Yards Penalized 188 303 RETURNS 
who didn't think a guy who sang that good could play that well. 
FUMBLES (LOST) 8 (4) 7 (4) (No.-Yds-TD's) 
Don was the only guy in Las Vegas last week who was starring in 
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 119 Interceptions Punts Kickoffs
77 the Sahara Open in the day and in the Sahara Lounge at night. Get 
Stepaniak 2-32-0 2-12-0 
him to sing you "The Green, Green Grass of Home" and shoot you a
RUSHING Schumacher 2-4-0 TC Yds AVG TO Ellis 1-28-0 
67 with two 3-putt greens, and, if you don't get goose-pimples, then Ed Ziegler 60 305 5.1 1 Olson 1-15-0 you wouldn't be impressed if Caruso went 3 for 4 in the World Denny Allan 68 261 3.9 1 Lewallen 1-5-0 6-68-1 Series in the afternoon and brought down the house in "pagliacci" at 


Joe Theismann 59 148 2.5 3 Gasser 1-3-0 the Met that night. Bill Barz 44 140 3.2 5 McCoy 1-0-0 1-25-0 
Andy Huff 21 63 3.0 1 Gulyas 6-6-0 
Bill Etter 6 58 9.7 0 Allan 1-4-0 7-141-0 Mike Crotty 10 53 5.3 0 Ziegler 3-20-0 Bob Minnix 7 24 3.4 0 Barz 2-14-0 Dick Zielony 3 18 6.0 0 Crotty 1-22-0 Jim Yoder 16 16.0 1 Cieszkowski 1-13-0 Tom Gatewood 0 0.0 0 Etter 1-5-0 




