

VOL. IV NO. 
Servin the Notre Dame anJSaint Mary's College Communi MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1969 
Scholars converge on SMC for Symposium 
by Prue Wear 
This weekend, in one of the 
.final large-scale observances of Saint Mary's College !25th Anniversary, St. Mary's brought together a panel of widely-known national and international scholars for the Language IS ym hoi/Reality Symposium on semantics and symbolism. 
National attention had been focused on the event with the distribution of Symposium brochures, and, far in advance of its beginning, a greater-than-ex­pected response was received. 
The most nationally well-known of the panel members, Dr. S.l. Hayakawa, President of San Francisco State College, spoke on Friday night in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The lecture was on "The Symbolic Processes of the Mentally Retarded Child" and much of Hayakawa's speech was an account of his personal experience with his 20 year old mentally retarded son Mark. 
After two days of deliberation and after finding out that there was no one stupid enough on either campus to want his job, 
Observer editor, Guy De Sapio decided not to announce his resignation at the staff meeting on Friday. 
llis announcement was greet­ed with shock and dismay by the staff who had already collected $23.32 for an office poll betting on how long the next editor would last. 
Instead De Sapio announced a basic restructuring of the paper which he stated, "would provide for the continued growth of The Observer in a manner which would assure continuity from year to year." 
At the same time De Sapio announced a number of new editorial appointments. 
The new organization would decentralize the structure of the paper allowing night editors a greater degree of participation in the editorial direction of the paper. Each night editor will serve as his own editorial page 
editor. lie will have the leeway 
One outstanding point was that Mark, unlike those who are "normal", has "unusually direct relathnships with experience". He felt this stemmed from Mark's lack of self-conscious­ness, a level of abstraction beyond Mark's abilities. 
Mark, he said, had created a "non-symbolic system" which gave him an unprejudiced view of the world. He said, "The same words by which we move up to higher levels of abstraction are the ones which divide us up." 
Relating the difficulties Mark had in comprehending the meaning of the everyday symbols, Hayakawa attempted to show that the "normal person" speaks his language unconcious of the levels of symbolism in it. In addition, he impressed upon the audience that the symbols in our language and in our thought processes play a great part in determining our attitudes toward the world around us. 
to speak out on issues that he feels are significant. 
The layout of the editorial page will change in order to allow for this expression. The Observer will not necessarily run editorials in every eight page paper. When it doesn't the editorial slot will be filled by the. night editor with a column that does not carry full Observer endorsement. 
The Observer as an entity will still speak out on issues. A new editorial board was established which will research and write Observer editorials. These will be run if approved by majority vote of the board. When they are run they will"represent" the senti­ment of The Observer. 
"The change was necessary," 

De Sapio said, "to emphasize 
what I felt the nature of The 
Observer should be. It is no 
longer a one or two man 
operation. The Observer does not 
belong to the editor or the 
publisher. It belongs to the staff. 
It would be different if The 
Observer was a business. But it is 
more than that. It has to be run 
(continued on page 2) 

The opening speech was given by Indiana Third District Congressman John Brademas, a member of the St. Mary's Board of Trustees. 
Meyer Schapiro, an authority on early Christian and medieval art, University Professor teaching in the Department of Art History and Archaeology at Columbia University, spoke on "Some Aspects of the Pictorial Image as Symbol and as Representation." 
The director of the Princeton University Anthropology Program, African language scholar David Crabb spoke at 
3:00 p.m. The topic of his discussion was "Preliminaries to a theory of language as Symbolic 'Of and For' Reality." 
The Saturday morning speakers were French novelist-critic Michel Butor and Karl Menninger, M.D., retarded. Photo by Mike Murphy co-founder of the Menninger· The creation of theFoundation and Clinic. categorizing him. In effect, the Symposium was the result of a
hippies are attempting a return growing awareness that symbols
to child-like perception."
Speaking in the field of of one sort or another influence
The Symposium was officially
literature, Butor lectured on every aspect of our lives and
opened on Friday by Sister M.
"Words in Western Painting". 
thoughts. It was designed to
Basil Anthony, Vice President
One of the best representatives introduce and integrate a variety
for Fiscal Affairs, who in the
of the New Novel in France, he . absence of St. Mary's President of new and valuable ideas 
has visited this country only concerning symbols from
Fr. John J. McGrath, delivered
twice before to teach at Bryn different traditions andthe welcoming speech. 
Mawr and at Middlebury. disciplines.
Afternoon speakers were Paul
A full house greeted Dr. Karl 
Ricoeur, Dean of the Faculty of 
The Symposium was attendedMenninger, noted psychiatrist Letters and Human Sciences at by educational, business, andand national figure. His lecture ·the University of Paris,and political figures from all parts ofwas on "Words as Weapons." 
Koman Jal<obson, 
the country. Many distantDr. Ilayakawa made only one 
world-renowned linguist from 
colleges sent student
reference to college politics. He 
Harvard University and MIT. 
representatives. St. Mary's andmentioned that "The hippies are 
A summation was given 
Notre Dame students were ableawfully nice to Mark. They 
Sunday morning by Rulon Wells, 
to view the proceedings via aapproach him naturally. They 
of Yale University and Thomas 
closed-circuit television set-upknow he can't talk or sing well, 
Sebeok, Symposium consultant, 
that was a gift of the Class ofbut they attempt to avoid Indiana University. 
1969. 

Students, workers to picket G E 
by Cliff Wintrode "If the GE workers asked the
that information from union 
people concerning other aspects· students not to do a certainThe Coalition for Political thing, then the students should
of GE would be available on not do this. The vanguard of theAction is visibly increasing its 
South Bend and on campus Tuesday. 
labor movement is the workersactivities in the last few days He added this information not the students," he said.
before the Tuesday picketing of would discuss the criminal acts McKenna also discussed the
he claimed that GE has been or
·a General Electric campus reasons behind a student-workerrecruiter. is being indicted for, such as 
alliance rather than a
The protest was called in their refusal to negotiate in good student-management alliance. 
response to the thirteen union faith, with the union. 
"The interests of students arestrike against General Electric. Roickle contended that the much more
The CPA charged that the university is engaged in similar to the 
interests of workers thanuniversity by allowing recruiting strikebreaking activities management. Most studentsto take place on campus is recruiting is a violation of object when they graduate from heresupporting management in the of a strike which is a "stoppage are not going to be part ofdispute. of all normal functions of the management. Students areFriday saw the leafleting of struck company." 
somewhat oppressed as areten South Bend factories and the "The university which is workers," he said. 
same process will be repeated supposedly trying to remain "Workers are not the onesthis morning and this afternoon. neutral is, in effect, helping who get the benefits from bigThe CPA has also been in them in some part of their profits. The workers are entitledcontact with union officials of campany activity," he said. 
to the majority of benefits thethe International Union of The CPA last Tuesday sent a company derives from theirElectrical Workers (IUEW) with letter to Father Hesburgh production," he added. 
an atmosphere described as demanding that the employment McKenna said he did not feel"very cooperative." interviews not be held while the the "majority of Notre DameSome union members will be strike is going on. University students were committed topart of the discussion groups officials refused to cancel the revolutionary social change" sowhich are expected to -rise interviews, and the planned the GE strike would have littleinformally out of the student protest was born. 
effect on them.
picket lines. Roickle related that the IUEW Roickle contended that theDepending on the number and due to its AFL-CIO membership university is engaged innature of the students involved, is receiving support from other 
strikebr~aking activities for
the picket lines may be either AFL-CIO unions. 
recruiting is a violation of theinside or outside the Student Body President Phil object of a strike which is aadministration building. A letter McKenna, who signed the CPA "stoppage of all normalwill also be sent to the G E letter sent to llesburgh, functions of the struckrecruiter when he shows up. commented on the role of the company."
f'PA member Ed Roickle said students in the G E strike. 


MONDAY,NOVEMBER1~ 1969

PAGE 2 THE OBSERJJER. 
GSU elects SAC and Forum representatives
by Bro. Patrick Carney 
When the University Forum Enright asked that her name be finally gets around to meeting, it withdrawn from nomination. w iII not only have The Council elected Dave Foist representatives from all divisions and John Quenneville to repre· of the university originally listed sent them on this body with by Fr. Hesburgh, but also a Kelly and Phil Carter serving as: delegate from the female side of alternates. the community as a result of In other business. President Friday's Graduate Student Jim King gave a detailed Union election. explanation of his idea of 
At that meeting, the Graduate forming a fact-finding 
Student Council, made up of commiSSion to investigate the 
elected representatives from teaching assistant situation. He 
each of the departments, chose stressed that the administration 
Clint Hirst of the English has promised to aid this group in 
Department and Saskia the gathering of information. 
Haremaker of Sociology to serve This week they will meet 
on the Forum. Chemicai separately with Fathers 
Engineer Nick Huie and Hesburgh, Walsh, and Beichner 
Theologian Joe Kelly will act as regarding the various aspects of 
alternates in the event that any the problem. 
of the delegation cannot attend Besides studying the history 
the meetings. of graduate education at Notre 
An attempt to put a woman Dame, the commission plans to( 
on the Student Affairs study comparisons within 
Committee was foiled when Sue departments of the university as 
De Sapio to stay
He also announced that a new photo editor will be appointed
(continued from page 1) 
like a business. But it is a group within the week. Phil Bosco,venture into putting out a good current editor, resigned to worknewspaper. It is not a job in the on a photo review magazine thatoccupational sense." 
he and other ND photographersHe also felt that the change are trying to develop.
would provide continuity from Prudence Wear, Observer As­year to year since it would allow sociate Editor, was named St.
many of the underclassmen to Mary's News Editor. The movefind out exactly what goes into was made in the hope ofputting out the paper from day increasing St. Mary's coverage.
to day. 

"We are trying everything weDe Sapio announced the ap­possibily can to increase St.
pointment of Dave Stauffer to Mary's coverage," De Sapiosucceed Tom Ehrbar as features . noted. "We need nine girls who
editor. Ehrbar is leaving in order are willing to help out by
to take a job with the South 
Bend Tribune Sunday Magazine. 
covering events over there or Stauffer was serving as copy 
simply by phoning in story leads editor before his appointment. 
when they come up." 

NICH runs children art show 
The children of the Northern express this on canvas. Indiana Children's Hospital pre Bill Durett, a senior in sented an art show Sunday in psychology, explained that the the lobby of the hospital on children were asked, for exam­
Notre Dame Avenue. The works, ple, to paint something they had painted by retarded children seen in the park. Some children between the ages of eight to who had visited the Notre Dame fourteen years were most ima­campus were asked to paint a ginative. picture of the library. 
The showing was arranged by The paintings were very color­
students of the Notre Dame-St. ful and imaginative. To this 
Mary's Psychology Club, stu­visitor, they displayed that cer­
dents of the Indiana University­tain perception, at once both 
South Bend psychology club, and naive and omniscient, that only 
the staff of the children's hos­a child could capture. 
pital. One eleven year old named 
Mrs. Sherry Pintar, one of the Tommy showed me three paint­
hospital's eight activity thera­ings he had done. They were pists, acquainted the children entitled "The Abduction," "Sail­with paints and brushes. The ing in the Grass," and "Mardi children were given a concept of Gras." something relevant to their ex­Durett said that one of the perience and were then asked to goals of the art show was to get 
people involved in the children's Dean Edward J. Kionka of the 
hospital. Volunteers, he said, areUniv. of Illinois College of Law 
always needed. prospective students on 
will be conducting interviews for Anyone interested in helping,THURSDAY, NOV 13TH in 
he added, should contact Dr. Continuing Education. Sign up room 154 of The Center for Thomas Whitman in the Psy­for an appointment outside room chology Building.
101 O'Shaughnessy. 

Southern Methodist U. of Notre Dame University 
Graduate Program Graduate Program in Economics in Economics 
Stipends-$2400 to $3000 Stipends $2100 to $2100 
well as h?w Notre Dame problem until after the report of compares wtth other schools the fact-finding committee. It is thro_ug~out the co~ntry. The planned to hold some open prehmmary report will be made meetings so that anyone with within three weeks. any interests on either side of 
In related matters, the the question can make them position of the English TA's was known in an open forum before endorsed by several departments the commission makes its final through their representatives. report. Tentative plans are to use The Government gt.:duate the Alumni Club for such a students and faculty members discussion. said that they will support The possibility that teaching further action if the English assistants be brought under group decides to continue. Both university Blue Cross and Blue biology and economics said that Shield protection met with a they had polled their student favorable response and is being bodies and each found 100% followed through. backing of the English students. In discussing other facult} The Modern Language privileges which the organization Department added its name to feels should be extended to this list of backers. graduates who do the work of 
Despite this support from a teaching, King plans to contact number of quarters, the GSU as the library regarding borrowing a whole will not make any 
policy and will report back at a statement concerning the TA
Juni0 r parent5 weekend pIan 
The Junior Parents weekend, March 13, 14, and 15 has been restructured and given a new format, breaking seventeen years of tradition. 
Previous Weekends have start­ed with parents attending their son's classes on Saturday morn­ing and ending with a dinner in 
Stepan Center. 

This year, according to Jim D'Aurora, one of the organizers of the Weekend, Juniors are hoped to be excused from Satur­day classes. Instead, students and parents would meet with faculty from all four major colleges on Saturday morning. 
Rich Linquanti, who is in charge of this aspect of the program, commented on the change. 
"We would like to relate, to parents, what their son is doing in school with something con­crete. We would tell them what his major is about and how he can apply his studies to it," he 
said. 

Instead of a reception on Sat­urday afternoon, there will be a discussion of current events top­
ics; life on campus, the black situation, co-education, and others. This part of the program was inaugurated because a teach-in held last year on the 
main quad during the Weekend, attracted many parents. 
Also Saturday, if enough halls have developed Hall Fellows pro­grams, a luncheon might be held 
in the residence halls, allowing parents to meet the Fellows. Linquanti points out that this would promote a more informal, relaxed atmosphere For those students in halls with no Fellows program, a luncheon for stud­ents and parents will be held in 
the dining halls. 

The traditional presidential dinner, highlighted by a speech by Father Hesburgh, will con-
D'Aurora and Linf!uanti point are: Dave Folts, a Government ~-~~-A_P_P_L_v_N_o_w____~_p_l_~_a_d_~_o_u_n_t_o_n_F_o_o_t_b_~_I_T_ic_k_e_~_~o-u~t-th_a_t_a_l_th_o_~~h-t_h_e_p_r_o_g_rn_m_i~s~m~m,udJ~nQ~n~~lle. 
·. 

The Student Affairs Subcom-U.. 1I Ci J. • j STUDENTS mittee is expected to spend most JVUSC tl/ YtSt.Oll. ""· FACULTY & of its time with organizational ADMINISTRATION! matters and academic affairs. 
Craftsmen in Ortkl Among the topics slated for IPeel Stimulated & Refreshed! discussion are academic experi-
II. 

FOR THE FINEST EYEGlASSES AND CONT4CT LENSiS elude Saturday's activities. 
The weekend will close Sunday with a brunch, masses, and pos­
'bl d · t. 1

s1 y a non-enomma 10na ser­
· 
VICe. 

progressing very well, much help weekend a success, to call Jim at is needed to organize the details 1266, or Rich at 8953 for the of the weekend. They would like co-operation of the junior class to put one Junior in charge of is needed to insure that the each major of the four colleges. program will be a worthwhile 
They ask those juniors inter­experience for students and par­ested in helping to make the ents. 
McKenna seeks seats on SAS 
Student Body President Phil 
McKenna announced yesterday 
that he intends to ask the 
Student Affairs Subcommittee 
of the Board of Trustees for 
eight student seats when he 
meets with them next Tuesday. 
McKenna, who refused to 
predict the outcome of his1 proposal, said that he would ask for seats for the president and vice-president of the Student Body, as well as for the heads of the Afro-American Society and the Graduate Student Union. He also said that he would seek four "floating" seats, the occupants of which could be eligible to be replaced each meeting. Accord­-ing to the proposal, one of the seats would be occupied by an appointee of the Graduate Stud­ent Union, one would be occu­pied by an appointee of the Student Body President, and two would be occupied by 
students elected from the Stud· 
ent Senate. 
"If the subject of discussion 
was Academic Affairs," said 
McKenna in explaining the deci­
sian to push for changeable 1 
student trustees, "I'd like to 
have the commissioner of Acade­
mic Affairs there. If the discuss­
ion is off-campus housing, I'd 
like to have the commissioner of 
off-campus housing there." 
McKenna had previously at­
tempted to get positions on the? 
full board of Trustees for him­
self, vice-president Fred Dedrick, 
Afro-American Society President 
Art McFarland, and Graduate 
Student Union head James King.
Whatever the decision of the subcommittee is, King will not be on the board. The Graduate Student Union Friday elected two members to represent them on the board of trustees. They later meeting. The president also announced that Mr. Arthur Pears has given orders that Teaching Assistants' cars are to be ticketed and he feels "this is discrimination." 

Not everything at the meeting was related to work however. Plans were announced for the formulation of a GSU Basketball League. Each department will be canvassed this week to see if they wish to enter a team. The possibility of a Christmas dance was also brought to the floor. 
Although the organization will not meet again for two weeks, the various subcommittees will be busy looking into the agenda items so that more definite decisions may be made at the next general meeting of the fledgling organization. 
college, and the current contra· versy surrounding the conditions of teaching assistants. 
After McKenna and other Student Government officials meet with the Trustees in an early afternoon meeting, there will be an open session where students can question the Trustees on any matter. Exact times of the meetings will be announced in tomorrow's Observer. 
Compare food 
ND and SMC students in 
co-ex courses vocalized last week 
their opinions on the food 
services on the campuses. 
Sixty-seven SMC students eat 
at the south dining hall while a 
maximum of about fifty ND 

students eat at the St. Mary's 
cafeteria daily. 
ND sophomore Marshall 
Breedlove compared the quality 

of the food, "It's OK. A great 
improvement over the food at 
ND and, in general, the meals are 
more balanced and less starchy. 

And it's great to get seconds." 
·--Across the road at the south 

dining hall, SMC junior Maureen 
Lavery says, "I eat there twice a 

week. The last three our of four 
meals haven't been so hot, but 
St. Mary's food has been so poor 
that ND food is about the same, 
or even better. But flies are 
always getting into the salad 
dressing and ketchup at ND. It's; 
really gross." 
ND sophomore Ray Ferrari expressed similar views, "St. Mary's has good ice cream and good salads, but the main course is about the same as at ND." 
An opposing opinion was held 

by freshman Connie Conole, 
south dining hall frequenter, 
"ND food leaves much to be 
desired. Also, I think that the 
dining hall lacks personality. St 
Mary's dining hall-food-wise and 
personality-wise--is much 
better." 
ND freshman Steve Donovan said of the SMC food, "It's all right. It tastes better than 
mentation, the experimental NO's."
Go to: 

rH£ SHERLAND BLDG.-·132 S. MICHIGAN ST.··IU:O;;tral ;2-141:\il 
N.D. Barbershop Hours 

The Observer is published daily during the college semester 

8:00a.m. to 4:45 Sat. 

except vacations by the studen~ of the University of Notre 8:00a.m. to 11:45 Open 
Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame,571 days a week. Serving 
Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind.,
N.D. men over 100 years.

M~in Office: 135 N. W•bash Ave.··Chicaqn 
46556. 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1969 THE OBSERJJER. 
PAGE 3 

Hockey scrimmage reveals potent Irish offense 
Whites, led by an early offensive 

by Don Kennedy 
Observer Sports Writer onslaught from this season's first and third lines, piled up a 4-0 
Last night's Blue-White lead in the first period against a hockey game at the Convo Blue squad consisting of both Center pitted an offensively the first and second lines on 
stronger White squad against defense as well as ace goalie Dick what was assumed to be a more Tomasoni, and held on for a 7-5 defense-minded Blue team. The victory. 
Paul Gallagher Experimental College 
Mr. Goerner's St. Thomas Moore Experimental College idea is finally and irrevocably dead. Georner, one of those teachers most widely respected by undergraduates at Notre Dame, wrote in exasperation to Fr. Sheedy recently that the Experimental College subcommittee of the Curriculum Revision Committee need not defer to his proposal any longer nor be troubled by his thorn in their side. Goerner refused to play the sort of politics needed to gain acceptance for his proposal, and knowing that without doing so he was doomed, accepted defeat, and counted himself out. 
What a relief! Now we can get back to keeping up with the latest mental gy rnnastics in our fields to winning a place for ourselves among the professionals. Indeed, in three, four years, we too can become professionals, if only now we can keep in check the groaning of our spirit, and discipline our minds to fight its repulsion of the pallid fodder which it must become accustomed to eat, and eat, and eat. 
It was an easy victory. A coed residential college (faculty and students living together community fashion!) geared toward students leading examined Jives, philosophical lives of wonder and questioning in Socratic fashion. How impractical! What firm would fund it! What kind of a job could you get with that! 
Besides it is just not what's going on. We'd end up like O'Malley, Sniedgowski, Duffy, Walsh, and Dunne, all making less than 20 thousand per year. Or Goerner himself, teaching freshman government and driving a VW bus after how many years? 
Lucky Goerner isn't a power politics man; that made things easier. lie's too used to philosophy; to just presenting ideas and trusting that the truth in them will touch and move men. No Grand Inquisitor was needed to down his proposal, so defenselessly offered. It was doomed from the start. 
Too bad about him though. He didn't act as sprightly as he might; didn't bounce back like a good loser should. In fact, he took the whole thing pretty hard. You see his eyes? Looked like he'd never spea\ of such things again. . . 
And in place of St. Thomas Moore we have a ntce little experiment that will keep the boys happy and keep things moving in the right direction, moving in a direction where there is a future. It's Nice and spicy-a little sex, lots of McLuhan stuff, some computers programming, a fiHie dabbling in cybernetics, and some collage making. It will really be different. And practical. Being only a year long, students won't be too affected by it and will be able to easily fit back into their normal department programs after it is completed. 
Goerner forgets we have a pluralistic community here. Not all of us arc in !crested in understanding ourselves and struggling with his ultimate questions; with reflections on life and death, suffering and sacrifice, loneliness and revelation, insight and confusion. Some of us came here to get an education. 
Things get tight in halls at times; he has a point there. It isn't like home. But guys seem to get through. Let them go out and lay one on once in a while. It's not the greatest solution, but it helps them kick the depression and get back to their work. They'll be glad for living through it later. 
N Dis center of molecular study 
Two Nobel prize-winners in chemistry are the intellectual "fathers" of research into molecular structure at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. In fact, since Drs. Derek Barton and Odd llassel have left the field of con formational analysis that earned them the prize, Notre Dame has been one of the major centers for such research in the world, according to Dr. Ernest 
L. Eliel, professor of chemistry. 
Eliel whose interest in con­formational analysis dates back to a \950 lecture by Barton on the Notre Dame campus, has spent much of the past 20 years clarifying and measuring propo­sitions set forth by the two pioneers. 
Since Eliel knew Barton per­sonally and worked extensively in the field of conformational analysis, he was recently asked to writ~: an article about the two Nobel prize-winners for the magazine "Science." In his article, Eliel explains that the major impact of early research by Barton and Hassel was to lift organic chemistry off the flat page and propel it into three dimensions. Techniques of model-building and three-dimensional analysis cre­ated by the pioneers made pos­sible studies of sugars as well as later research into proteins and other complex molecules. 
Hassel, a Norwegian working at the University of Oslo, showed that the six--carbon ring common in carbohydrates, hormones, synthetic fabrics and other important molecules is not a planar hexagon, but a zig-zag shaped, three-dimensional figure resembling a modernistic 
chair.  Between 1930 and  1955  
he  studied  the  physical  pro­ 
perties  of  the  isolated  ring,  

showing that its simple deriva­tives exist in two forms now called "axial" and "equatorial." 
Much of his early research is not available to American scientists, since il appeared largely in an obscure Norwegian mining Journal. Hassel's research was interrupted for two years by the German occupation, when 

Neither the first two defensive units (Jim Morin-Bill Green and Mark Longar-Mark Steinborn) nor netminder Tomasoni displayed the form that will be needed to hold down such offensive powerhouses as Wisconsin and Boston College as the Whites broke through for three quick breakaways early in the first period. Freshman Paul Regan and Soph Kevin Hoene tallied on two of them, with Mike Bonk and John Rosselli upping it to 4-0 by the middle of the period. After the midway point, however the action seemed to even out as both teams proceeded to display what could be a potent Irish offense for the upcoming season. 
Second-string goalie Chris Catchcart protected the White lead with some fine split saves, until freshman Ricky Cunha slipped one underneath his pads at 2:5 8 of the second period. Taking the cue from Cunha, wingers John Womack and Adam Stelmaszynski of the Blue squad added two more to make it 5-3 for the Whites at the end of two periods of play. 
Two periods of fast-moving hockey will take its toll on a team, especially when that team has been divided into two opposing teams. Consequently, except for a flurry of shots towards the finish, most of the third period action was slow-moving and dull as all four offensive lines were pretty much exhausted. Cathcart's play seemed to deteriorate as Womack and defenscman Mark Longar beat him on close-in shots; conversely, Tomasoni's 
play steadily improved as the evening progressed. He ended the night with 32 saves as opposed to Cathcart's 27, although allowing seven goals to his opponent's five. The Irish "Veteran Line" (sophs Joe Bonk and Kevin Hoene teamed with junior John Roselli) accounted for five of the White team's seven goals, Roselli and Hoene both netting two each and Bonk garnishing with two assists, including one that set up his younger brother Mike for the third White goal. 
Assistant Coach Tim McNeill commented that the failures of the first two lines of defense 
"worries him the most" and that 
changes may be forthcoming. 
Otherwise both he and Head 
Coach "Lefty" Smith are 
pleased with the progress of the 
Irish's offensive attack and both 
feel that the goaltending, 
although displaying sporadic 
weaknesses last night, will be a 
key factor in many a game this 
season. Saturday night marks the beginning of regular season play for the Notre Dame sextet as 
they take to the ice at home 
against the "Lancers" from the 
University of Windsor. Game 
time has been moved up to 7:30 
so as not to conflict with the 
later telecast of the Georgia 
Tech-Notre Dame game from 
Atlanta. 
Frosh offense blunted 
The Irish freshmen were unable to get their offense going for the second straight game this 
year  and  bowed  to  Michigan  
State  21  -7 last  Saturday  at  
East  Lansing.  In  an  almost  

incredible performance, the young Spartans threw ND run­ners for I 13 yards in losses for a final tally of 43 Irish carries for a net 21 yards. 
Through the air, Notre Dame was more successful, completing 7 of 26 passes for l 02 yards. Willie Townsend scored the only ND touchdown in the third peri­od on an 18-ya rd pass from Jim Bulger, with Mike Creaney mak­ing good on the PAT. 
The big man of MSU was Jesse Williams from Bellefon­taine, Ohio, who rambled for 186 yards in 24 carries, including a 71-scoring dash which opened the scoring in the first quarter. Rich Salani caught a 27-yard scoring pass from Brad Van Pelt and Gail Clark capped the day 
by  stealing  one  of  Bulger's  
throws  and  going  88  yards  to  
score.  

Notre Dame closes the fresh­man season next Saturday at home against Michigan. 
Prostitutes to combat military VD? 
LOS ANGELES (UPI)-A Southern Baptist publication has facetiously proposed sending on­ly married soldiers into battle and allowing them to spend alternate weeks behind the front with their wives to help combat venereal disease in Vietnam. 
"Perhaps we ought to send into battle zones only married men whose wives can accom­pany them to a relatively safe zone near the battle area, and then men could spend a week on the front line and a week at home." 
The editorial said, "The good 

soldiers closed the University of Oslo and imprisoned him. Bar­ton, an organic chemist at the Imperial Co liege of Science in London, did much of his revol­utionary research between 1950 
and 1960. At the University of Notre Dame, Eliel has explored ideas presented by the two great 
general must have been suffering from battle fatigue when he made his suggestion. 
"If the only way to combat VD is provide proper sexual partners for servicemen then perhaps the general ought to consider another possibility," the publication said. 
The suggestion was made by the California Southern Baptist after Brig. Gen. David E. Thomas, the Army's top medical officer in Vietnam, recently proposed making prostitutes a v a i Ia b Ie a t post e X c h a n g es a S a n a n S W e r t o t h e 
rising VD rate. 
Cite, Hesburglt 
NEW YORK (UPI)-The Na-
Thomas hoped that Army controlled houses of prostitution would help lower the VD rate from the present level of about 200 cases per I ,000 servicemen a year in Vietnam. 
But the California Southern Baptist, whose editor is J. Terry Young, retorted, "The VD rate in Vietnam is shocking...but we hardly think the best way to combat the problem is to try to provide an antiseptic atmosphere for government sponsored moral collapse." 
__T_h_e_S_t_u-de_n_t_U_n_l_o_n_S_o_c_la-1_C_o_m_m-.---. 
Invites you to Join them 
tor a 

PEACEFUL NIGHT 
OF FOLK MUSIC 
Nov. 14 8:30 
STUDENT CENTER 
tiona! Institute of Social Sci-1---------------t 
ences announced Sunday it would award gold medals for "distinguished service to human­ity" to astronaut Frank Borman, former Canadian Prime Minister Lester B. Pearson, the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, presi­dent of the University of Notre 
chemists, developing their in-Dame, and Barbara Ward, the sights into exact quantitative British economist. Frank Pace, Jr. measurements. In particular • his president of the institute, will research has contributed to a present the medals at a dinner detailed set of tables which tell Nov. 20 in the Plaza Hotel. 
chemists what proportion of var-
A movie, on tlze history of the grape boycott in Delano, California, will be shown tonight at 8:00 p.m. in the Little Theater, Moreau Hall, St. Mary's. A discussion period will be held afterwards. Dave Cormier, boycott organizer for St. Joseph County, will lead the discussion. 
ious ringed compounds will be in --------------..l...--------------1 
the "axial" what percentage in the "equatorial" form. 
Some of the earliest pioneering work in the area was done by Dr. Frederick D. Ros­sini, also of Notre Dame, who is now vice president of research 1111d sponsored programs. 
Eliel is the author or co-auth­or of several textbooks, in­cluding "Stereochemistry of Car­bon Compounds," and "Confor­mational Analysis." 
Prue Wear has been appointed St. Mary's news editor. In order to give Saint Mary's the excellent coPerage it deserves, she needs lzelp. We have a few dedicated girls over there, but they aren't enough. Anyone who would like to work on The Observer please contact: 
Prue: 4 722 or 
Glen: 1715 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1969
PAGE 4 

•

De Pasqua .. machine kept runn1ng 
by Terry Shields set up the score. On a third-and­was held to "only" 31 yards in a field goal on the Panther's first ing reporter asked why the game Observer Sports Writer five play, Friedl hit Steve Moyer, drive of the ballgame, he replied, was even scheduled. Carl's
four carries, he still managed to 
Pitt's leading receiver for the delight the fans with a 26-yard "Against them, a field goal answer? "It's always a great "They were like a machine. score and a little over half the keeper for a touchdown. This wouldn't help." One wisecrack-pleasure to meet the Irish." They just kept running through was in bedlam (subway
stadium made the score 49-7. 
us." This was the way Carl De­alumni and ND students made 
That's the way the score re­
Pasqua, Pitt's head coach des­up the other half). 
JIM MURRAY
mained as the fourth quarter was
cribed the Fighting Irish after The quarter ended with Notre in a mist.
played gloomy And
they destroyed an improved Pan­Dame ahead 14-7, but Theis­
although the second team moved
ther squad 49-7 at Pitt Sta­mann, voted the game's most 
the ball well they couldn't add
dium. 
outstanding player, was just any more points.

There really wasn't much warming up for a game which he question about the outcome 
A Sob Story
called 'the most fun I've had in After the game coach Ara from the start as Mike Crotty a long time." After an exchange Parseghian said that he was almost broke loose on the kick­
of punts, the team that DePas­"quite pleased we won." He paidoff and managed to pi<.:k up 39 
qua called "a machine" went tribute to DePasqua and a gameyards to Pitt's 45. It took the into high gear. The "South River group of Panthers who he felt 
® "''' LOS Allltln Tl,_
Irish six plays to move in from Roadrunner" kept the Panter were "a greatly improved ball We bring you today the story behind the story on the making of
there. Denny Allan did the hon­defense guessing as he mixed his club. If they would have gotten memoirs of F. Stanley Stuffshot, the world's tallest rich kid,ors from four yards out, to plays well and let Allan, Ed a few more breaks it might have the 
please the entire Allan clan who who made more money filling baskets than the grape industry. The 
Ziegler and Bill Barz carry the been a different story." Ara was 
made the trip Ashtabula, memoirs, entitled, "Nobody Knows The Trouble I've Seen" were
from load until they reached the Pitt impressed with the Irish ground
Ohio to see the game. prepared in conjunction with Sporty Illustrations' magazine ace
29. From here Theismann ran game (355 yards) and also with Pitt didn't exactly play bad collaborator, Johathan Wasp. 
and passed to Andy Huff for the Joe Theismann who completed
after the first ND touchdown. As we look in, the tape recorder is going and F. Stanley is quietly
final yardage. The score came on 9-ll passes for 126 yards. Joe 
They marched all the way down a Huff, and for sobbing into it. He is on his third Kleenex as we tune in:
1 0-yard pass to 

to the ND five-yard line before now holds a completion mark of F. Stanley: First of all, there was this chick who wouldn't dance
all practical purposes it was 

Bob Olson and friends stiffened 59.2% on the season and this is a with me y'know? So we went right out to blow up Battery Park or
Notre Dame's ballgame. The 

against Pitt's effective swing pas­record pace. The only sour note start World War III. I mean, a fellow doesn't have to put up with
Irish moved in two more times 

for the Irish was the fact that THAT, does he? 
ses. 
before intermission. Allan and 

The Irish then commenced the defense lost its shutout Wasp: You're so right! I remember once this girl wouldn't dance
Gatewood each added another 

their longest drive of the day as string. with me, either. 
touchdown in the process. The 

they covered 95 yards in eleven DePasqua said "Notre Dame F. Stanley: So you went out and puched in some store windows,
halftime score was 35-7. 

was everything I expected." right?
plays for the tally. The big plays When the second half began,
here were short passes by Joe When asked why he didn't go for Wasp: Well, no, what I did was, I went to a movie. Ruby Keler
rain, wind, darkness and above 

Theismann to Bill Barz and the was in it.
all, cold weather drove many

big strike to Tom Gatewood F. Stanley: 'Course, I'm surprised she would turn down a member
fans to the exits. The first team 

Club needs help 
who broke three tackles on a of the Wasp family. Did she object to your religion or politics?
stayed in the game for one more 

29-yard scoring play. The Notre Dame Sailing Club Wasp: No. She objected to r:,1y size-S feet I. See, she was wearing
score. This time Ed Gulyas was 

The Panthers gave the 44,084 the hero as he returned a punt is submitting a bid to participate high heels. 'Course, they couldn't use that excuse with YOU, Stuff. fans their biggest thrill of the in the John F. Kennedy Memor­You're 9 feet tall.
32 yards to the Pitt 22. It took 

day when they took the ensuing ial Yacht Regatta to be held at F. Stanley (sighing): Yeah. Then, on top of that, I had to put up 
the starters only three plays to 

kickoff and paraded 72 yards for Annapolis the week after Easter with all these offers from all over the country. I mean, like, it gives 
score as Allan ran 18 yards for 

the first score against the Irish Vacation. The best possible team you a headache trying to decide which $10,000 worth of free
his third touchdown. 

after eight quarters of shutout from the campus is being assem­education to accept.
When the second team came 

football. Once again it was Jim bled. Anyone with large yacht Wasp: I was lucky, I didn't have that trouble. I had to go where
on the field, everyone was look­

Friedl's short passes that hurt sailing experience is asked to you could take a streetcar. We couldn't afford board and room, too.
ing for Bill Etter, who held an 

the Irish along with a 35-yard 11-yard plus per carry average contact Richie Doyle, I 07 Mor­Did you have the same trouble? 
bomb to George Medich which before the game. Although he rissey, phone number 3454. F. Stanley: Well, no. But I did have to pick some place where I could approve of the coach. And that's not as easy as it sounds. And, like, I didn't want to live just anywhere. I had to have my stereo and 
Third straight homecoming victory 
a car and all. Wasp: CAR?! 
F. Stanley (glowering): Yeah. A second-hand Mercedes I had to
PASSING ATT COMP INT YDS TONO PITT 
Theismann 11 9 0 127 3 take. Maybe THAT didn't burn me up!
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 27 11 
Etter 4 0 0 0 0 Wasp: Where did you scrape up the money?
Rushing Attempts 79 31 NET YARDS RUSHING 355 66 
RECEIVING NO YDS TO F. Stanley: Well, the school paid my way, y'know. 'Course I 
Passes Attempted 15 29 Barz 4 58 0 brought great honor to the institution. Gatewood 2 2
Completed 9 13 32 Wasp: (eagerly): Let me guess! You invented a mechanical heart?! 
Huff 2 20 1
Had Intercepted 0 1 F. Stanley: No, but you're close. I beat SC. I broke the school 
Ziegler 1 16 0
NET YARDS PASSING 126 122 scoring record. If they had a Nobel Prize for basketball, I would have
PUNTING NO AVG
Number Plays 94 60 
got it. 
deArietta 2 34.0
TOTAL OFFENSE 461 188 
Wasp: Basketball?!
Yoder 3 26.0
Passes Intercepted 1 0 
PUNT RETURNS NO YDS F. Stanley: Yeah. You see, about 70 years ago this cat up in
Yds Intercept Rtrn 4 0 
Gulyas 2 40 Springfield, I forget his name, Dr. Something-Or-Other, invented this 
Punts-Average 5·35.6 7-36 Punts Returned 2 4 KICKOFF RETURNS NO YDS game, and if he sat up nights he couldn't come up with a more 
YDSPUNTSRETURNED 40 19 Crotty 1 30 perfect game for guys 7 feet tall and over. I mean, shoot! AnybodyINTERCEPT RETURNS NO YDS
Kickoffs Returned 1 8 over 6' II should play the game blindfolded to be fair to the rest of 
Rater man 1 4YDS KICKOFF RETRN 39 149 
mankind. I mean, didn't you get a scholarship of nothing?
PITTSBURGHPENALTIES.Yds Pen. 5-59 6-52 
Wasp: Naw. Nobody invented a game for guys 5' I. The only thing 
RUSHING ATT NET YDS TO
Fumbles-LOST 1-0 4-2 
Ferris 11 41 0 I was ever good at was plastic surgery. They made me pay, so to Esposito 7 23 0 speak, through the nose to do that. 
NOTRE DAME 14 21 14 0 49 
Sigrinoli 2 6 0 F. Stanley (whistling): Well, never mind, let me tell you, I didn't
PITT 7 0 0 0 7 Thissen 1 3 0 pick no rose either. The first thing they did when I went out to this 
SCORING Knight 1 3 0 
here college is pick the governor of the state without consulting me.
NO: Allan 4 RUN (Hempel kick) 
Cramer 1 2 0 
NO: Gatewood 39 PASS from Theismann (Hempel kick) 2 0 Went right over my head, the phonies! I could see right away what a
Garnett 2 PITT: Moyer 6 PASS from Friedl (Cramer kick) Friedl 2 -6 0 phony this was. I almost left them in the lurch. I mean, they would NO: Huff 10 PASS from Theismann (Hempel kick) Gustine 4 -7 0 have lost to Purdue and everything! 
NO: Allan 3 RUN (Hempel kick) PASSING ATT COMP INT YDS TO Wasp: You must have suffered. NO: Gatewood 3 PASS from Theismann (Hempel kick) Friedl 17 9 1 94 
1 F. Stanley: Ain't the word for it. Then this newspaper guy comes NO: Allan 18 RUN (Hempel kick) Gustine 8 4 0 28 0 
out and interviews me and I tell him the state is a phony, the people
NO: Etter 29 RUN (Hempel kick) Winters 3 0 0 0 
0 are phony, the governor is phony, and some things, by God, better 
McGrath 1 0 0 0 0 
be changed. And guess what? 
RECEIVING NO YDS TO
NOTRE DAME Wasp: What?
Moyer 5 29 1
NETYDS

RUSHING ATT TO Medich 4 62 0 F. Stanley: The guy went out and wrote a negative story. You 
Allan 19 83 3 
Esposito 2 16 0 could see he was just looking to write a negative story. 
Barz 11 66 0 
Wiley 1 8 0 Wasp: I should say so! After you gave him all those upbeat things 
Ziegler 7 37 0 
Tilconis 1 8 0 to write about! Some guys have no class. l mean, just because the
Yoder 6 36 0 
PUNTING NO AVG crummy taxpayers are putting up all those buildings and buying all
Etter 4 31 1 
McGrath 7 36.0
Crotty 8 37 0 those books and building all those basketball arenas and paying
PUNT RETURNS NO YDS
Gulyas 3 20 0 those salaries and landscaping the ground and subsidizing the 
Salter 2 23
Zielony 8 16 0 hospital doesn't give them the right to elect a governor. Did you
Hall 1 1
Huff 1 4 0 walk out, I hope? 
Pribish 1 -5
Minnix 2 3 0 KICKOFF RETURNS NO F. Stanley: Well, I thought about it. But I just toughted it out--in 
YDS

Theismann 8 2 0 
my own guest house in the back of this guy's home in the San
Garnett 3 58
0

Gores 2 0 Lewis 5 91 Fernando Valley. I just figured I'd make do with my stereo and Mercedes, but I was bitter, I tell you. I got bitter every afternoon out by the swimr:~ing pool under the bougainvillea. How I used to dream of I 25th Street! 
Wasp: Has Society gotten off your back? 
F. Stanley (sighing): No. Now I have to play basketball for this lousy million bucks or so. But I guess some people are just meant to suffer in this life. I'm just glad it happened to someone like me who can take it. 


