THE WORLD TODAY 
Wilkins Slams Black Study Programs 
NEW YORK (UPI) Roy Wilkins, head of the National 
Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) said 
yesterday the NAACP would go to court to block the creation of 
"autonomous" black studies programs and black student dormitories 
on college campuses. 

THE OBSERVER 
Servint the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Community 
VOL.III NO. 69 TUESDAY, JANUARY 14, 1969 
The~~mffit ~tWilk~~ex~~~directw~t~Mtioo~R~----~---------------------------~~~~ 
oldest and largest civil rights organization, in direct opposition to e 
mbu s c h Na u Swap Barbs 
Negro students across the country now demanding black studies ' programs which they control and dormitories for black students 
only.

Wilkins said these demands represent, "in essence, the setting up 0 n FI. s I Res p0 ns I. bI. II. t y
c a 
of racially based Jim Crow schools," and he said the use of public tax monies to do this was believed by him and NAACP lawyers to be 
unconstitutional. Student Union President Rick bill is that the Student Union say that the trip was poorly " ... If some white Americans, torn and confused by today's Rembusch commented l~st ~ight submit a bi-annual budget. Thus, conceived, poorly planned, or clamor of some black students, should accede officially to the call on the propo~ed constlt~tlonal if the Union Director, or p·o orly executed. Kevin 
for separate dormitories and autonomous racial schools within amendments mcluded m the President as he is now known, 
McCarthy, organizer for bol 11 colleges and universities, there will be court action to determine Hunter-Davey Senate Bill, which does not perform within the 
trips, performed superbly. The anyone's right to use public tax funds to set up what are, patently, ~ould effect sw~eping ~han~es guidelines set by the Senate as question then is simply one of 
student response. This is not to
Jim Crow schools," he said. 111 the Student Umon, saymg, It they study his budget for the argue against innovation. It is
Wilkins made the statement to about 200 NAACP representatives disturbs me that. some senators first half year, then the Senate 
only to suggest that a
from throughout the United States at the 60th annual corporate fee I that. thts vo~e for can insure against such waste responsibility be more fullymeeting of the association at the Park Sheraton Hotel. amendment IS a vote to mcrease and inefficiency for the second 
their own power. That's simply half of the year." emphasized by those who are SAS A lrllner Crashes In Pacific not true. The Student Union is --------interested both in creative subordinate to the Senate right EDITOR-IN-CHIEF BILL activity and financial solvency.
LOS ANGELES (UPJ)-A Scandinavian Airlines System DC8 jet now, and the Senate has final LUKING COMMENTS ON The Senate is then, obviously,with 45 persons aboard crashed into the Pacific Ocean during a word on anything we do." "THIS UNION THING." that ideal sounding board that,rainstorm last night, killing at least four persons. 
Rembusch said that this SEE PAGE 3. in effect, the bill seeks to The Coast Guard reported that private small craft had picked up amendment would in no way re-emphasize."
four bodies from the choppy sea and that 13 persons were missing. 
increase the power of the Nau said, "In many ways the
Earlier reports said all 36 passengers and nine crew members were Rembusch said, "Any
Senate; instead it would simply whole question resolves itself 
safe. business has its ups and downs.
increase the power of the into an issue not of power but ofBlack Occupation Continues In East Student Body President. performance, that is, the We lost money on the football trip, but we made $4,000 on the
WALTHAM, Mass. (UPI) -Protesting Negro students kept Student Body Vice-President performance of the Union in occupations of buildings going yesterday at Brandeis University and Chuck Nau, when questioned light of the reactions and needs Rascals' concert. It's a chance Swarthmore College in attempts to enforce their will on we arc always taking." 
about the Student Union of the student body." He cited administration officials. 
President's remarks, said, as an example the two football Rembusch concluded, "The~fricials at B~andeis _sidestepped Negro control of the campus "Rembusch has, for the first train trips. "Both were financial Senate is already the highestSWitchboard by mstallahon of 16 new telephone lines to transact time, acknowledged the total failures," said Nau. "This year's authority. We always have in the university business. 
power of the Senate." trip was such even in light of the
The sixty-five Negroes barricaded in Ford Hall on the Brandeis past and always will in the Campus at Waltham, Mass., passed up an offer to submit their Nau continued, " It is hard benefit of knowledge of last future accept the Senate in this written demands to the school president fur discussion. for me to understand how the year's problem. This is not to position." 
The president, Morris B. Abram, invited the demonstrators to very few senators who support a write out their demands. He said if they did so he would be willing completely autonomous Union, to meet with them and talk over their wants. The blacks failed to 
Tragedy In Biafra 
Mike Meade, in particular, can 
respond to the invitation. 
call for that kind of autonomy,
Abram briefed the mayw of Waltham on the situation and Last night, two Biafran occurred again in 1945 and again 
and yet continually harp, as
continued to decry bringing in police. That he said would be "the students, Okechukwu Emodi in 1 9 53, for seemingly
Meade has done, that first of all,
" ' '
Iast tI1ing he would want. 
and Winston Ibi-Bel-Gam, spoke unexplainable reasons.
the Student Government and
Some ~w.o dozen. Negro students remained for a fifth day inside to stu"dents of the Notre Dame Concerning Biafra today,
Student Union spend too much
the adm1ss1ons offtce at Swarthmore College near Philadelphia. 
community about the situation Members of the Afro-American Swarthmore Student Association money, secondly, the Senate has in Biafra. Though they had tomulled over a number of concessions by administrators to their no control over such 
contend with the Notre
demands. expenditures, thirdly, the 
Dame-Air Force game, theSchool officials agreed to demands for active recruitment of black students themselves have very speakers were welcomed by astudents from community colleges, formation of a committee to 
little control over how their 
review, and to propose admission policies for black students and large group. They are part of a 
money is spent, and finally,
appointment of a Negro as counselor. They said they would not use delegation which has lectured in
there is very little opportunity
force to evict the demonstrators. many U.S. cities.
for budget review." Shaw Trial To Be Held on Schedule Nau said that the constitution Emodi began by acquainting 
the audience with Biafra's desire 
NEW ORLEANS (UPI)-Dist. Judge Edward A. Haggerty Jr. calls for the Student Union to show the United States how
today refused to delay or move the scheduled Jan. 21 trial of Clay President to report at every serious the situation is in Biafra.
Shaw on charges of conspiring to assassinate President John F. Senate meeting, but Rembusch Kennedy. He referred to the genocide
has only spoken at three 
_£ommitted in Biafra today
llaggerty denied defense motions to quash Dist. Atty. Jim meetings thus far. "The as "human tragedy," and explained 
Garrison's charges against Shaw, and for a change of venue to move constitution also calls for a that the Biafran people have no
the trial outside New Orleans. report from the Student Body other choice but to continue
Haggerty said he would release ground rules for newsmen covering Treasurer," said Nau, "and he fighting to resist the Nigerians
the trial today. Haggerty already had rejected the same defense has done so at almost every with a "strong will to survive."
motions once before. He turned them down summarily yesterday. meeting." Winston then took over,
Garrison has accused Shaw of conspiring with Lee Harvey Oswald, Student Union President relating brief histories of Nigeria
Jack Ruby and David Ferrie in New Orleans in 1963 to murder Rembusch replied, "The and Biafra. Winston stressed the
Kennedy. Oswald, Ruby and Ferrie are dead. 
Secretary of the Senate has fact that the Federation of
Romance Rumors Run Through UCL.A 
never informed me of when or Nigeria was established only in .LOS ANGELES (UPI)-The UCLA Italian Department chairman where the Senate meetings arc 1914 under a British-instituted Okechukwu sat~ yesterday he still was in the dark as to whether three teaching going to be. I realize it is in the r u I e system of government. Winston said many countries areass1stants took the romance language too literally. 
Constitution for me to be Under this system, working to save Biafra. HeTh~ cam~us newspaper, the Daily Bruin, reported Friday that the present, but it is difficult for me representatives of the British acknowledged that, since Biafrate~~hmg asststants swepped A's for dates with pretty coeds. 
to show up when I don't know government collected taxes in is not a member of the UnitedWe haven't talked to any coeds yet who have any such charges " about the meetings. There have Nigeria and returned them to Nations, she is not able toFranco Fido said. "We have talked to all the teaching assistants in 
been occasions when I have 
Britain. receive aid which countries suchthe ~epartment but we haven't come up with anything yet." 
wandered in on some of these Winston then related how, in as the United States haveF1do heads a three-member committee investigating the report. 
meetings and have been 1929, the massacres in Biafra donated to the United NationsThe student paper also reported that the three teaching assistnats recognized by certain members, began. The government simply for this problem. Instead,warn~d male stude_nts they would nunk unless they took high-priced but I have never been asked to termed the atrocities '~Nomad Winston said, aid must cometutonng from spec1fic teaching assistants. 
take the noor." resistances" and the Biafrans from the U.N. through the . "f cann~t help_wo~dering why the students who made the charges Vice-President Nau also said, were forced to accept the Nigerian government, which m_ the Dally Brum dtd not come up and speak to me first," Fido "The primary provision of the government's stand. The raids naturally, is a hopeless front.
sat d. 

THE OBSERVER 
Illegal Operation Foiled 
L 1TTL E FERRy, N.J. arsenal custodian at the National Hankins said the weapons (UPI) -Federal agents and state Guard armory in Teanect, and apparently were stolen from·· police confiscated a truckload of Kenneth J. Herbeck, 26, a military arsenals at bases stolen military !>';¥Capons civilian gun repairman for the throughout the country. They yesterday night and arrested a National Guard, were arrested. were resold on the black market National Guardsman and a when it became known "by
The IRS said Herbeck
civilian employe, accusing them work of mouth" that they were of running one of the nation's worked out of the West Orange, available. largest black markets for guns. N.J. armory and traveled all over Hankins declined to estimate An Internal Revenue Service the state making gun repairs. the profits of the operation, but agent said the weapons included The two houses raided served d h " . I 
as warehouses for the stolen sai te weapons turn up m t 1e 
machine guns, anti-aircraft guns, hands of snipers and in riot carbines and explosives. They guns. areas." 
Paul Hankins, chief of the IRS 
were picked up during raids on The guns seized in the raids
for New Jersey, said the raids
houses in this New York City included Thompson submachine 
· b G f' ld produced "a truckload of 
suburb and m near y ar 1e . guns, Russian-made automatic 
· 1 G d s weapons" and the cache was the
N at 10 na uar gt. weapons, and a .50 caliber 
W'II' w 1k f lit' biggest he had seen in 20 years
1 1am a o, a u tme anti-aircraft machine gun. Boxes
with the IRS. 
g u a r d sman I of grenades also were seized.
emp oye d as an Hankins said a third suspect was being sought. He said that 
'But who As protest rocked the 

the ring appeared to be operated 
from the 

by only a "few individuals" and 
religious, military and business worlds met in 
that organized crime apparently 
Chicago to examine selective 
. had no part in the operation. 




on the 
tues., Jan 14 

campus••• 
Elec. Engrs. on "Student Values in a Changing World," at 8:00 this evening
At 7:30 this evening open in St. Mary's Little Theatre.
house will be held in the En­gineering Auditorium for fresh­
Hamlet

men interested in an electrical engineering major. Alas poor students, Hamlet was not shown last night as
Student Values 
previously scheduled. It will be featured tonight at 7:00 in Carroll Hall, and tomorrow atSeymour Halleck, M.D., Uni­l: 30 PM, also in Carroll (SMC) versity of Wisconsin, will speak 


SMC Drops Charge 
Mary's with any evidence against The Saint Mary's Campus Miss Cecil. Susan Turnball, aJudicial Board decided at a 6:30 
member of the Saint Mary'sp.m. meeting last night that it Judicial Board stated that "as farcould not take action against as we're concerned there is noKathy Cecil, a junior at Saint official evidence, so there is noMary's. Robert Narucki, a Notre case". The board did not decideDame Senior, pressed charges jurisdiction on the case because
service systems from every 
angle. Their detailed analysis is an indispensable source book in any discussion of draft reform. 
Contributors include 
Margaret Mead, Milton Friedman, Erik H. Erikson, Kenneth Boulding, 
Lieut. Gen. Lewis B. Hershey, Sen. Edward 
M. Kennedy. 
Paperback $3.95; cloth $12.95 at bookstores or from 
UNIVERSITY 
OF CHICAGO 


PRESS 

5750 Ellis Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 
60637 

AHandbook of Facts and Alternatives Edited by Sol Tax 
against Miss Cecil for her part in 
We Make  the CIA demonstration.  
Application & Passport  The  Saint  Mary's  Judicial  
Photos  Board was presented with a copy  
Bagby Studio  of Narucki's  charges,  but thus  
110 W. Colfax  far  the  Notre  Dame  Judicial  
Phone 234-8941  Board has failed to supply Saint  

WANTED: 

Juniors for Grand Prix. The Student Union Social Commission is looking for Juniors who are interested in a position on the Grand Prix staff. This is your opportunity to engage in a worthwhile activity and gain valuable experience. Interested? Call: 7489 or 7757 Leave name, phone number and address or contact: Bob Folks at 3039 or Bob Spaulding at 6982 they not feel that there is a case. 
Narucki filed suit with the Notre Dame Judicial Board against Miss Cecil, Don Hynes, a 
senior,  Brian  McTigue,  a  '68  
Notre  Dame  graduate,  Peter  
Michelson,  a  member  of  the  

English faculty, and Marty McNamara, a senior. McNamara's trial has been postponed until Feb. 9. The others have not yet been brought to trial. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 




THE MARDI GRAS BALL 
/ 


LOTTERY TONIGHT 
FROM 7-9PM FIEST A LOUNGE (STUDENT CENTER) 
Make Check Payable to the Student Govt-Mardi Gras 
A TOP NAME rhythm & blues
FREE SODA & ICE group will be featured at the SEMI-FORMAL. dance as well as a dance band. Be prepared for a soul surprise! 

THE OBSERVER 

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 


Bill Luking Justice Brennan Coming 
The Notre Dame Law School university trustees and law ad­judges in Sacred Heart Church, a will celebrate its luOth visory council members, South Law School open house, and a anniversary with a two-day Bend area attorneys and judges, centennial banquet at which observance on Feb. 7. Associate and Notre Dame faculty mem­Dean Lawless and the Rev. J ustice William J. Brennan of the hers and law students. Theodore M. Hesburgh, CSC,
This Union Thing 
U.S. Supreme Court will be the Other speakers at centennial Notre Dame's president, will principal speaker. events will include Lt. Gov. speak.
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111( 
"Human Rights and the Law" Raymond Broderick of Pcnnsyl­
The Student Senate will meet tonight and muddle in the morass will be the theme of the centen-vania, a Notre Dame law alum­The Law School is also using 
of "constitutional reform." The Senate, impotent, rhetorical, and nial symposium, and sessions nus, who will speak at a reunion its IOOth anniversary as the oc­
unable to effect any change in the goverring of this University in will deal with "The Moral Basis dinner, and Prof. George W. casion to offer alumni the op­
several years, will finally have the chance of making itself felt. The of Legal Education." Keeton, who will discuss Notre portunity to replace their LL.B. 
change that it can effect tonight, that of making the Union President Dean William B. Lawless of Dame's junior year program of (bachelor laws) degree with the 
a direct appointment of the Student Body President, will be, the Law School said symposium legal study at the University of J.D. (doctor of laws) which is 
r1owevcr, destructive, revengeful, and reactionary. II London where he 1·5 dea11 of the now replacing the LL.B. as the
participants, as we as personsRichard Rossie has spoken quite a bit about student power in the to receive honorary degrees dur-law faculty. professional degree conferred past two years. lie scared a lot of people last spring, and his loos~ ing the centennial, will be an-Justice Brennan, who has upon law school graduates in the tongue got him into a jam in September. Rossie, however, is really a nounced later. been on the Supreme Court United States. It will not be pretty tame animal and a most constructive radical. He's been ar Invited to the observance have since 1956, will speak at an aca-necessary for alumni to return to cxccllcnt Student Body President and the most conscientious elected been members of the Notre demic convocation Feb. 8. Other campus to effect the change in officer imaginable. Dame Law Assn., the deans of events will include the tradition-degree, but many arc expected 
Student power, however, means more than seating students on some 130 American law schools, al Red Mass for lawyers and for centennial events. 
boa~s. talkingaboutcurric~umrefurm,andsupport~gilier~htof~-----~---~~~-~~-~--~~~~----------~---~ 
demonstration. 'fhc Student Union is in many ways the most realized form of student power on campus. The Union's power is real; it's backed up by the dollar; and it's controlled by students. But Rossie doesn't exert direct control over the Union, and that's why 


Acapulco for Easter 
the Hunter-Davey bill is being brought before the Senate. The Union was a brainchild of 1966-67 SBP Jim Fish. It was set 
Round trip air fare from South Bend 
up to divorce the administration of the "bread and circuses" of the 
Union from the realm of immediate concern of the Student Body 
-Hight days and nights in the brand new DeGante 1/otel on LaCundesa Beach 
President. It was a damn good move. Rossie's accomplishments: 
setting up the SLC, the judicial system, the inclusion of student 
-Services of a tour guide and information sen,ice 
rights in the Student Manual, support of the Free University, 
curriculum reform, and furthering ND's contacts with NSA were 
-Bull fights, water skiing, skin diving, golf; tennis, Jai Alai, etc. 
possible because he was free from the jobs once performed by the 
SBP that the Union President now handles. Rossie has been free to 
Low, low Mexican prices 
meet with Hesburgh, Riehle, McCarragher, Joyce, and Wilson, to go 
sec Ed Stephan, to listen to complaints, and to represent the student 
body. lie hasn't had to worry about concerts, lectures, shuttle 
$25 deposit Sign-ups on Wed. busses, campus press, the student directory, Mardi Gras, 
$245 total 6: 30 in the Coke Bar 
llomccoming, Grand Prix, scheduling class functions, and whatever else the Union docs. 1-~~~~~~----~---------------~~----~-----l 
This is hardly meant as a paean on the Student Union. The Union 
has its faults (The Academic Commission demonstrates a pathetic 
lack of taste and the Social Commission has more than its share of 
problems.), but it also docs its thing and seems to do it pretty well. 
So far Rossie's done his thing, and he's done it well. The problem 
seems to be that the Student Body President doesn't know when 
he's got it good. Right now he's on top of every thing--NO's number 
one poo-bah. The present constitution subordinates the Student 
Union President to a board; the SBP chairs the board. The board 
appoin Is and could remove the Student Union president. Meanwhile 
Rcmbusch, Wade, Lanwermeycr, Knappenberger, and Mroz have to 
contend with the details and try to please everybody with goodies 
and not just promises. 

Changing the Student Union President's title and putting him 
under the direct appointment of and subject to direct removal by 
one arbitrary political ngurc ranks as the most foolish move 
witnessed on campus in the last your years. Senators favoring the bill 
have been basing their support on the contention that the bill's passage will enhance the power of the Senate. The Senate's present authority over the Student Union, its budget, its spending, and the appointment of its president, however, will not be enlarged or even affected by the legislation. Only the Student Body President's power will be enhanced. 
Rossie contends that the Union is the service arm of Student Govcr11nrent. Tl•at'sfinc.Thcat~mpttonmkcthe Union the~r~ce ~~~~--~~~~~~~~~--~-~--~~~---~~~-~~~~~~~-! branch of the office of the Student Body Presidency, however, is an 
entirely different issue. The Union has to be a business organization serving the student body; it can't be a political football. The move to change the Union President's title and manner of 

IT'S TIME!!appointment and to abolish the Union's Board of Directors is disturbing in several aspects. The Union Director, as Hunter and Davey would call him, is quite likely to be a hack politician, appointed without regard to qualifications. Playing with the Constitution again reinforces a growing precedent for constantly amending and changing and rcamending the document. The most important point ignored by those who wish to alter the present set 

IF YOU WANT TO TEACH 
up is that the Union is a business doing one quarter of a million dollars worth of business per year. It has contracts to provide services and to consume goods and services. It can not be directed or 

A FREE UNIVERSITY 
administered by political whim. Those wishing to change the present structure arc ignorant of any principles of management. The Union 

COURSE
must be allowed to develop without needless change and continuity must be established. The Union's direction is best determined by and 
SEND YOUR NAME AND A RESUME
its functioning best supervised by its board---a board which should be headed by the Student Body President, the highest elected 
to: RICK LIBOWITZ
representative of the student body. The day to day and yearly operation of the Union and its multiple facets, however, should be c/o STUDENT GOVERNMENT run by a Student Union President, appointed by and responsible to the board. FREE U.: AN UNEQUAL OPPORTUNITY 
The title can be changed. That alteration is the only one which should even be considered. 
'----------------------------­
PAGE 4




Irish Cagers Hijack Air Force, 88-53 
By TERRY SHIELDS It was like watching two However, in the second half, points. Coach John Dee "big kid," who looked as though Parsons, the Air Force just different ball games with three the Irish came out breathing fire substituted freely during the he should be playing defensive didn't have the horses. Noting different teams competing last and they looked every bit of the initial stanza and there were tackle for somebody, threw in a the way that the Irish rebounded night. In the first half Notre nationally ranked team that they murmurs of dissent (and at times hook shot to the delight of the (54-38 edge), it may be a better Dame's Fighting Irish are. Unfortunately for them, the these were a little louder than entire student body. comparison to say that they confronted the Air Force visiting Falcons continued their murmurs) among the student The deciding factor had to be didn't have the kangaroos! Falcons and the result was such same style of play and the end body. Nonetheless, ND still ND's superior height advantage. One final note shows that the a messy contest that even junior result was a convincing 88-53 managed a 33-26 advantage. This was especially true at the Irish had their fewest number of high school teams could snicker. rout by the home team. The beginning of the second guard positions where Murphy turnovers in quite a while. They ND looked inept at handling the Bob Arnzen was the only half saw this lead dwindle to 3 and O'Connell could shoot or gave up the ball 14 times and at ball, and the Air Force Academy bright spot in an otherwise points on two quick buckets by feed almost at will during the least 10 of these mishaps just looked inept. dismal first half as he canned IS the Falcons. Then Dwight Irish rally. Aside from 6-I 0 Cliff occurred in the first half. Murphy hit a jump shot from IS
IIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIIIIIIIII 
feet, Arnzen tapped home a rebound, Sidney Catlett layed one in, "Murph" stole the b~l and fed O'Connell and the rout

Sports Parade 
was on. The Irish shot ~ scorching 62% in the second haif and a very respectable 54% for the entire game. 
By Milt Richman, UPI columnist 
Arnzen led all scorers with 32 points, Bob Whitmore added 15 for second best, and Murphy netted IO. Bert Spear, son of

'Joe Is A Good Boy' 
Falcon coach Bob Spear, was the MIAMI (UPI) -The most worried person in the ballpark was a only Cadet to hit double figures. 
gentleman named Namath. He had I4 markers. John Namath, not Joe. Once again Notre Dame John Namath, 6I-years-old, has a perpetual glint in his eye like his utilized its bench as every man 
son and is like any other father. He doesn't want to see his boy get saw some game action and hurt. almost the same number found 
"That's the only thing that worried me," confessed the elder the scoring column. Even some Namath after watching his son lead the underdog New York Jets to IRISH FG FT R TP their first professional football world championship ever Sunday Arnzen 13-20 6-7 12 32 
Jones 2-2 1-1 3 5

with an almost unbelievable I6-7 Super Bowl victory over the 
Whitmore 5-15 5-7 8 15

Baltimore Colts. 
Murphy 5-9 0-1 11 10 "I didn't want to see him get hurt," said John Namath about his O'Connell 3-6 1-1 3 7 
celebrated 25-year-old son, Joe. "I didn't want to see any of them Sinnott 1-2 0-0 3 2 Meehan 0-1 0-0 0 0
get hurt." 
Catlett 1-3 3-4 4 5

The colorful, controversial Jet quarterback did aggravate an old Pleick 0-0 1
0-0 0 injury late in the third quarter Sunday when he was spilled Derrig 0-1 2-3 0 2 
uncommonly hard to the turf by Baltimore tackle Fred Miller, but Hinga 1-1 2-2 2 4 Quinn 0-0 0-0 2 0
that didn't keep him out of action long. He was back directing 
Gallagher 2-2 0-3 0 4

traffic the next time the Jet took possession, completely ignoring his Ziznewski 1-1 0-1 1 2 Sophomore guard Jackie Meehan looks over the Air Force throbbing right thumb which he originally injured in the second 
TOTALS 34-63 20-30 54 88 defense during last night's Irish victory. game of the season against Boston and dislocated again against FG-54% Oakland in the AFL title game two weeks ago. FT-66% John Namath was among the happy, excited celebrants in the 
Hockey Statistics
AIR FORCE FG FT R TP

Jet's dressing room and whenever anybody asked him how he felt 
Klindt 1-9 1-1 6 3

about his son, Joe, he told them straight out. Results
Thiessen 2-3 2-4 4 6 "They said he could never do it. They all said the same thing. He Parsons 2-11 3-4 10 7 Nov.22 Athens, Ohio ND 8 Ohio 7 2,300c 
couldn't do it. They said he was boasting but I knew he wasn't I said Spear 7-17 0-0 1 14 Nov.23 Athens, Ohio Ohio 5 NO 3 2,800c 0-1 Oec.11 Windsor, Ont. NO 4 Windsor 4 1,250
they'd win by 10 points. He made a liar outta me. They only won by Bean 2-5 1 4 
Halvonik 2-5 1-1 3 5 Oec.13 Air Force, Colo. ND 8 Air Force 1 1,300
nine." 
Kelly 1-4 1-1 3 3 Dec.14 Air Force, Colo. 'NO 5 Air Force 4 1,230
Joe Namath, surrounded, beseiged and pounded on the back at 
Cooper 3-5 1-3 3 7 Dec.20 St. Paul, Minn. ND 6 Gus Adol 3 1,230 every turn, happened to be coming by as his father was speaking Popovich 0-2 0-1 1 0 Dec.21 St. Paul, Minn. ND 4 St. Maw's 4 1,097 about him and when they saw each other they embraced warmly. Weilert 0-0 1-3 2 1 Jan. 4 Urbana, JR. ND 8 Illinois 2 1, 100c Love 0-2 1-2 0 1 Jan. 9 Notre Dame ND 8 Ohio 5 637
"I told 'em you'd do it. . .I told 'em," John Namath said joyfully, 
Brown 1-1 0-0 1 2 Jan.10 Notre Dame ND 1 Ohio 1 1,192
hugging his son. 
team rebounds 3 Jan.11 Notre Dame ND 12 Detroit 3 1,690"You can talk," Joe Namath told his father, laughingly. "You TOTALS 21-64 11-21 38 53 
Scoring
didn't have to play." FG-32% FT-51% Player Pts. Gls. A st. Games Pen. PM
There was such a milling, surging crowd around the Jet 
Kevin Hoene 27 14 13 11 2 12
quarterback, who still had shoe black under his eyes from the 
Irish 13th 

Joe Bonk 23 7 16 11 8 16 ballgame, that he kept walking from one corner of the dressing room Phil Wittliff 14 9 5 9 4 8 
to another and finally out the door trying to escape the mob. John Womack 12 9 3 10 4 8
Says UPI 

Mark Longar 11 3 8 11 2 4
"What are you gonna do, Joe, go out there and play the game all 
Jim Cordes 9 4 5 11 3 6
over." one of his teammates callled after him, lauging all the time. 
NEW YORK Jim Morin 9 2 7 11 11 25 Now somebody was asking John Namath how proud he was of his Paul O'Neil 9 6 3 11 3 6
(UPI )-Notre Dame was

boy. John Roselli 8 4 4 11 5 813th in the latest UPI board Dean Daigler 6 2 4 11 13 26
"I'm the proudest father in the world," he said. "Not only of Joe of coaches ratings of the Mike Collins 4 1 3 8 3 9
but of all five of my children, John, Bob, Frank and Rita, too." 
Mike Gearen 4 1 3 10 2 4 "Best game you ever saw Joe play?" John Namath had a question top college basketball Jim Blainey 3 2 1 8 10
5 put to him. teams, announced Monday. Tom Myers 3 2 1 11 0 0 
"Nah," he said. "I've seen him play a Iotta good games like this. The Irish, 10-2 for the Bruce Britton 1 0 10 1 2 Eric Norri 1 0 1 3 1 2
Two weeks before the Oakland game I was a nervous wreck but after campaign, garnered 15 
Mike Bars 0 0 0 6 1 2
they (the Jets) beat them, I said I didn't care who they play -points for the 13th spot. 
Pat McMahon 0 0 0 3 0 0 
Baltimore or Cleveland -they'd lick 'em. That's what I said." 
UCLA, unbeaten in 11 ND TOTALS 144 67 77 11 68 158 Right about that time, John Namath's son came by again on OPP TOTALS 85 39 46 11 72 217
games, was voted No. 1 

another one of his trips around the room and noticing the straw hat Goal-tending
again with 350 points,

his father was wearing for the first time, said: Goals
which is perfect.

"Where did you ever get that hat?" Player Games Saves Against Save Pet Game Ave Dick Tomasoni 11 317 38 .893 3.5
Joe's father tried to answer but Jet coach Weeb Ewbank came 
Sports Card 

John Barry 1 3 1 .750 1.0 
over to shake his hand and then one of the Jet's assistant also 
ND TOTALS 11 320 39 .891 3.5
TUESDAY

wanted to have a word with him. OPP TOTALS 11 406 67 .858 6.1 
"Mr Namath, you've got a remarkable son," he said."You've got a Frosh Hockey: ND vs. Michigan son who makes some big statements and then goes out there and State, 3:30p.m. makes every one of 'em com true. I take my hat off to a man like WEDNESDAY that and to a man like you, sir." Frosh Basketball: ND vs. Ball 
John Namath beamed. State, 5:30p.m. "Thank you, he said, touching his own hat. "Joe is a good Basketball: ND vs. Detroit, boy." 7:30p.m. 










