
THE WORLD TODAY 
British to invade rebel Anguilla 
ST. JOliN'S. Antigua ( Ul'l) A b<Jttk ready company of British paratroopers hoankd two Royal N<~vy frigates yesterday JHL'p<Jratory to invading the breakaway Commonwealth possession of Anguilla, a .1S square rnik island in the Caribbean. 
Tlrl' fornrL'r British repn•sentativc to Anguiii<J, Tony LeL', said the troops would moVL' against Anguilla within 48 hours unless 
E 


OBSERVER 
Serl'ing the Notre !Jame and Saint 1\tary 's College Community 
VOL Ill, No. 104 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 19, 1969 
Anguillan President Ronald Webster and the 6,000 othL~r residents of the island abandon their dedaration of independence. Resilknts of this Bntish island possion grel'led the Brit ish military force with l'<Jll'alls and hoots, shouting, "llired mun.ll'rers!. (;o to 

SMC SBP race coming up!
Rhodesia!" and "Shame on Mother l:ngland!" InLondon, l;oreign St•crl'!ary MichaL·! Stewart made a last minute 

present system which allows SBP candidate Barbara Curtin 
J1l'an· offer in hopes of drawing Anguilla hack into the by Ann Conway 
Freshmen to take only English emphasizes that "work of the Conlnlonwealth fold 
Two juniors, Susan Turnbull on a pass/fail basis, she suggests past has been to establish a But in Anguilla, Webster vowed to defend the island's 
;~nd B<Jrbara Curtin, will place that there he one or two courses workable structure in indt'pL·ndenn· and promised to gn~et any invader with a volley of 
their na mcs in nomination which the Freshman or Sopho­government. It seems grapL·shot from till' island's most potent weapon. a Napoleonic age 
tonight for the position of Saint more could choose to take now have it and we 

cannon. 
Mary's Student Body President. pass/fail. obligation to work with thisTla· Hritish military force of 210 paratroopers ;md a contingent of 
M is~ Turnbull's platform According to Miss Turnbull, structure." 
crvil policenll'n arrived at nrid-aftnnoon aboard two Royal Air Force consi~' > of two parts, one part "Community government is not She feels student government
planes. They unloaded riot control and military equipment under 
dc<Jiin!! with the philosophy of complete. 1':1 like to sec a fuller should concentrate on the aca­strict securrty guard and transferred immediately to the frigates, Saint Mary's, and the other deal­implementation of it next year demic issues, and not on what 
IIMS Minerva and Rotlll'say, in St. John's harbor. 
ing with specific reforms. and definitely have students committee it belongs to, though "My general philosophy," said seated on the academic commit­
Nixon; cut federal aid to protestors she declined to release her actual 
Miss Turnbull, "is that I feel that tees and make sure the student platform until Thursday noon,WASIIIN(;TON (UI'I) President Nixon was reported yesterday 
Saint Mary's has a number of 
to fct•l the best way to cope with campus disorders is to cut off 

good assets and a good founda­
federal aid money to disruptive students, hut he decided against 

tion to work from. With effort 
issuing a promised statt•mt•nt on educational unrest. 

in the right direction, we can 
After a White !louse meeting with Nixon, Senate Republican 

make this an exciting place for 
leadl'f l'vcrctt M. Dirksen and House COP leader Gerald R. Ford said 

educational experience." In con­
tilL' l'rL·sident favored stricter l~nforL·cmcnt of cltisting laws providing 

nection with this, Miss Turnbull 
for withholding aid funds. 

suggests that the Admission 
"The previous administration did not implement the laws 

policy he more open to <~ppli­
Congress passt•d last year," Ford told newsmen as he and Dirksen 

cants from public schools, and 
left the White llouse. 

various faiths in order to diver­
White !louse Press Secretary Ronald Ziegler, announcing Nixon's 

sify the student body.
decision against issuing a statement on the matter said: "The 
The more specific reforms 
!'resident is concerned with the problems that arc occurring on our 

which she suggests include: 
campuses. And . . there is a very definite desire on the part of the 
I) that usc be made of the 
President to see that those laws arc enforced." 

Academic Appclatc Board, a GM to recall 1.1 million more cars mcd iation board to settle dif­


ferences between faculty andDI·.TR()IT ( Ul'l) Ccnl'fal Motors Corp. yesterday unnounced it 
Two juniors, Susan Turnbull (left), and Barbara Curtin arc
students. This Board is included 
was rccalring more than 1.13 million cars, trucks and school hu~cs 

in the present Community Gov­the only two in the SMC Student Body Presidential ra<..'C 
for corrl·dion of possihk brake malfunctions. It was the second 

ernment structure, hut as of now so far.
'lr.rssiVl' recall campaign announced by the world's largest 

it has not been used. voice is heard and respected. I when the campaign officiallyautomakt•rs in less than one month. 
2) Ihat an improved schoi<Jr­also feel th<1l the choice of the begins.
At kast one death <llld three injuries may have resulted from the 

ship program with more outright students who will he sitting on
failurl' of a rubber-type sc<.rl which controlled hydr<.rulic pressure in Concerning Community Gov­
grants rather than work pro­these committees is crucial
the braking systt·m of a school bus carrying 46 persons, (;M said. ernment, Miss Curtin believes 
grams he initiated because she because it will have a tendency
The recall inl'ludcd all 967.000 regular size i'outi.:c cars for 1965 that "there is a real place for the 
feels that the present work pro­to affect the faculty and ad min­in they can
and If.J66; 164,000 Chevrolet <.rnd (;Me truck and coach bus chasis students which 
gram system is an unnecessary istration's attitudes toward stu­assume a significant role at Saintand medium duty trucks; I,450 Chevrolet and 590 (;Mc grut'k and drain on the student. dent voice in years to come." 
Mary's."
coach division 1969 four wheel drive light duty trucks, and 630 3) that off campus housing be Presently Miss Turnbull is a 

lw;~vy duty highwav tractors. 

approved and in use hy 1970. member of the Campus Judicial Presently Miss Curtin is theReduced sentence in Presidio case 4) that the Pub lie Relations Board and Chairman of the Secretary in Student Govern­
WASII JN(;TON (UP!) The Army, target of growing criticism for Board of the Student Services Freshmen Appellate Board. She ment which has placed her on its twndling of the San Francisco Presidio Stockade mutiny case, Organization initiate a weekly is a I so on the Aims and Purposes the executive hoard. llcr capa­announced yesterday a reduction in the sentence of one of the ncwslcttn to be sent out to all Committee, a group formed to city on this hoard is to serve as a soldiers involVl'd from IS to two years. students in order to keep the define the aims and purposes of coordinator making recommen­
Till' reduction was granted to Pvt. Ncscry D. Sood, 26, of Stud cnt Body informed on Saint Mary's, and is Chairman of dations to both the legislature Oakland, Calif., om· of 27 prisoners charged with mutiny for staging activities of the Community the Subcommittee on Liberal and council. She is also a mem­a sit down to protest the fatal shooting of a fellow inmate hy a Government. Arts Education. She was also ber of the space allocation com­guard, who chtimcd the man w;~s escaping. S) The reform of the present instrumental in the drafting of mittee. 
Sood's case now goes to the Army Review Hoard, which could pass/fail system for Freshmen the signout bill which went into The election itself will be held further reduce the st·ntencc hut cannot increase it. . and Sophomores. Instead of the effect this past semester. on March 28. The Army gave no cxplanat on for reducing the punishment of Sood, who was the first man tried on the charges of conspiring to 
Hatcher, Gregory debate tactics
disobey orders. Hut public protests have mounted steadily following his sentt•ncing to 15 years hard labor Feb. 13. 
The Andrew Hatcher-Dick academic speech of Hatcher by a they all knock hippies for havingWhite House egg roll date April 7 Gregory debate last night at fiery call to "change the stinkin', beards anyway? Abc Lincoln WASHJN(;TON (UPI)-The annual White lfousc Easter egg roll Stepan Center centered around dogasscd, white racist system had. a ~card, and he was ugly 
will he held on the South Lawn Monday, April7, it was announced the "battle for the minds of that you are responsible for." besides. Negroes" between moderatism Gregory called the present Gregory said, "Today the
yesterday. The rules arc traditional: An adult must he accompanied by a 
and revolutionaries. young generation, "the finest, Negro docsn't have a hungry Hatcher, a vice-president of a the most mora I, the most res­stomach, today he has a hungry
child under I 2. The youngsters will he entertained from I 0 a.m. to 2 p.m. by the large public relations firm and ponsible group of people that mind. But everybody says 'Edu­Army Navy, and Air Force hands and the Air ForL'e bagpipers. the former press secretary of ever walked the face of the cation is the problem.' Let me 
Presidential families have sponsored egg rolls, although eggs no John Kennedy, termed himself a earth, and some of us old fools tell you, if education was the longer an· actually rolled since the Rutherford Hayes administration "moderate, though 15 years ago had a hand in that, and for that problem, the Jews would he I never would have been called I'm thankful." running America tonight. If you
in I H7X. moderate." In a smooth and Gregory blamed the capitalists train some nigger to kill for­lindsay to run for second term composed tone, Hatcher gave a for perpetrating the racist sys­eigners so th<Jt they can he liber­history of the "battle for Neg­tem in the United States. ated, don't you think he's gonna
NEW YORK (UPI) -Mayor John Y. Lindsay announced roes' minds" from the conflict "America is the only country on come hack and kill you to lib­
ycsll'rday he will seek a second term as mayor of New York City, 
between the thinking of Hooker the face of the earth that lies, it c:atc his nwmmy'!"
I he "tought•sl joh in the world." 
T. Washington and W.E.B. Du says one thing in its Declaration Gregory said that Ire was
Lindsay made the l'xpcctcd announcement at his Cracic Mansion 

Bois down to the present day of Independence and then turns completely non-violent himself.
rcsidcn n·. 
"black power." Hatcher called around and docs the other. Who that he "couldn't lay a hand on
"I will run for reelection to the office of Mayor of New York for new leadership in the mode do you think spent the most a man that carne in to kill my
City," he said. "I won't pretend rny administration has been without 
of Kennedy to "answer the rc~­money on prostitutes in Chicago wife and kids, hut I'm not gonna
error or disappointment. You cannot achieve fundamental changes ponsibility, the destiny, to last summer'! The hippies and put my non-violence on some­
in a city of l'ight million people without mistakes." 
think

AttL~mling the news conference in a display of party unity were improve relations between coun­yippics or the Shriners'l But body else. Do you some 
try and city, rich and poor, nobody gets upset at the Shrin­black is going to meditate for 15<;ov. Nelson A. Rockcfcllcr, Scns. Jacob K. Javits, Charles 1-:. 
black and white." crs, because they ain't trying to minutes when you call him a
(;oodl'll Rockl'fcllcr's appointee to finish the late Sen. Robert Dick Gregory contrasted tht• change nothing!" Why Why do (continued on flO/:£' 2)Kennedy's term and former Gov. Thomas r::. Dewey. 


PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER WEDNESDAY, MARCH 19, 1969 
Protestants in power 

U.S. ruled by establishment 
Lou 1 s  H c r c n ,  chic f  
Washington  correspondent  for  
the  London  Times,  pinpointed  

what he believes to be the true ruling body of the United States in a lecture delivered last evening at R pm in the Center for Con­tinuing Education. "This coun­try is g9vcrned by an eastern Anglo-American establishment" he said, "despite the fact th;1t most Americans arc annoyed to hear that it is so." 
Hcrcn went on to show how 


,..--.,............-;;;;-::-==-=~=-=:-=----..holder would be a male from a 
with Diamonds of Ultimate beauty 


Illustration Enlarged 
Her fondest dreams come true when you choose a Contoura diamond bridal set. 

by~eobe~ 


Import Co 
THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS -WHOLESALE­SEEN BY APPOINTMENT PHONE 287·1427 
Australia, New Zl•aland, and "even Britain" haVl' more open societies than the United States. "London has permanent heads of civil services who have come from poor, lower-class back­grounds," he stated, "but you don't often find such a situation here." He cited a recent Brook­ings Institution survey of the I,000 persons who held the top 180 Washington jobs between 1933 and 1965. The results showed that the typical office 
large eastern seaboard city, edu­
cated at an Ivy League univer­
sity, and a Protestant, probably 
an Episcopalian. 
The British journalist conclu­ded from the above that a small percentage of a certain social class, m effect, runs the natiOn. He believes that one of the main reasons the establishment came to be is that in the early days of the country, "America's business was business, and government service had few attractions beyond the Appalachians. The eastern bankers and lawyers were almost the only people available." 
Hcren nevertheless defended the existence of such a ruling group as embodied in the estab­lishment: "If the American establishment did not exist, it would have to be invented. Most of its members arc serious, capable men. This institution is necessary, and I think it serves the nation well.'' 

\Poetry is not poetry 
"Some people argue that pol:try is poetry, regardless of whether a black man or white man writes it. My poetry is a distillation of my own life . poetry that should speak to all black llll'n." 
This is how Gwendolyn Brooks, Pulitzer-Prize winning black poetess from Chicago, dcscribcd her own poetry in the 
keynote  lecture  for  the  1969  
Black  Culture  and  Fine  Arts  
Festival last night  in  the Engin­ 
cering Auditorium.  

Miss Brooks' program fca­turcd a selection of her verse taken from her well-known books, "The Bean-Eater", "In the Mecca", "A Street in Bronzevillc", and "Annie Allen". Rounding out her pro­

·or Pa•ents-Son weekend starts spcakcrforThursday'sscssionof
'•



Jun' 
This weekend the Notre Dame campus will be the site of the annual Junior Parents-Son Week­end. The Class of 1970 has prepared a program which will hopefully give the juniors and their parents a chance to pause 
and  reflect  on  the  quality  of  
cd u cation  offered  at  Notre  
Dame.  

This year's weekend will in­volve approximately I 500 par­ents and over 750 juniors. The main attraction is the President's Dinner Saturday night in ·the Stepan Center. 


In the booklet, entitled "A Weekend Preview," Rev. Theo­dore M. Hcsburgh addresses the parents. 
His letter reads, "It is often very difficult to describe the eleml'nts comprising a Notre Dame education. It is more than just the kcturcs, books, and research; more than priests, lay professors, ad111inistration, and classrooms. A true Catholic edu­cation is promoted hy the influ­ence of each of these in proper proportions. together with the guidance of Catholic ideals and 

Applications now 


being accepted for 
Union director Following Cabinet positions Human Affairs 
Student Life Academic Affairs Judicial Coordinator 
NSA Coordinator Off-Campus Commissioner Public Relations 
Phil McKenna 
Mail to--­

c/o Student Govt. Office 
Box 522 Deadline---Thurs. March 20, 1969 
12 noon interviews to be held Thurs. ni f 
principles, Christian surround­
ings, and the peaceful beauty of 
the campus, inspired by the 
statue of Our Lady atop the 
Golden Dome. All of these 
factors tend to devc)()p a gradu­
ate who is truly cap:~blc of the 
moral, responsible leadership he 
must assume." 
Chairman of the Junior 
Parents-Son Wl·ekend, Jay Fitz­
simmons, also addressed the 
parents in a letter. He said, "The 
gleam of the Colden Dome the 
roar of a pet rally, the pcac~ful­
m·ss of the grotto arc things that 
a student has experienced many 
times, but only their physical 
aspects arc seen by visiting 
parents.... The attention of the 
entire university students, fac­
ulty, and :~dministration is 
focused on you." 
SMI starts Sun. 
Seniors Joyce O'Donnell of St. Mary's and Bruno Eidictis of Notre Dame have announced plans for a Senior Marriage Insti­tute to begin this Sunday. 
The four one hour sessions on Sunday evenings arc intended to provide those who arc planning for marriage in the ncar future with an opportunity to fulfill the rcq uiremcnt of attending a Pre-Cana without having to wait for the summer. Attendance at Pre-Cana Conferences is still re­quired by most dioceses. 
The talks arc scheduled for 
7:30. The first two will be held in the Library Auditorium. The second two will be held at St. Mary's. 
Registration is planned for to­day through Thursday in the dining halls at Notre Dame. Registration will be held all week in the dining halls at St. Mary's and in the Notre Dame off-campus office. 
gram were her rendition of the poetry of contemporary bla..:k poets and several songs by Ron­aid Sherman, a young black Chicago pop singer. 
The theme of most of Miss Brooks' poetry centered around her native Chicago and the plight of the black community there. However, Miss Brooks also fca­turcd poems dealing with the 
broader  spectrum of the  black  
dilemma;  Martin  Luther  King  
and his work ("He  was a  prose  

poem ..."), the assasination of Malcolm X and a brilliant spoof on the white "liberals", who pretend to be the friend of the black man. 
Roy Hill, the poct-in­residence concurrently at Kansas State University and Notre Dame and who is the featured 
the FestivaL aptly summed up Miss Brooks' role in today's liter­ary hierarchy. "She is a black poetess for all seasons", said 
I-I ill. 
Tonight, the Black Arts Fes­tival presents a concert by the American Association of Crca tiw Musicians { AACM) of "pure, black rcvolu tionary jazz". Thl' cnnccrt will begin at R:OO 
pni in W;~shington Hall. 
Hatcher-Gregory 


vie in debate 
(continued .(rom page I) 
nigger? Damn meditation! Sure, man in America willing to put his name on the line and tell A mcrica how it is. And if James Earl Kay killed Martin Luther King, me and my mammy did." 
Gregory blamed the movies and advertisements for perpetra­
ting  "the  white  man's  biggest  
hangup,  a  black  man  with  a  
white  woman.  Maybe  if  you  

have black girls making love in your movies and black girls standing by all those shiny, new cars the black won't feel like getting himself a white woman." 
Gregory concluded that America was not really working to change "the racist white system." "When America gets sincere about solving her race problems like she did with the missile gap--then she will solve them. And it's up to you young folks to do it." 
the white man will react and sock back, but it's insignificant. We're moving into revolution­not evolution-and revolution is not controlled by man, but by 
the laws of nature. The black ghetto is like an oily rag that has spontaneous combustion, and I'm afraid we've gone beyond the point where we can stop the white reaction or the Negro rev­
olution." 

HAVE YOU ALWAYS WANTED 
CUSTOM TAIL.ORED SUITS $50 FROM HONG KONG $50 
ALL STYLES IMAGINABLE MANY GREAT FABRICS ANY STYLE ANY FABRIC 
GUARANTEED FIT ci SATISFACTION ! CALL OR SEE THE NOTRE DAME REPRESENT~TIVE 283-1777 -30 iiJon 
... . 
. .. 

• I I ', I I • • t • • : 
• • I 

. . I. . . . . . .. . .... 

Student Union Social Comission Presents 


Funny Thing Happened 

$5.50 
Gilberts 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 19, 1969 





Chris Wolfe 


'1'~

Why Residential? 
..(\ .. 
One of the problems that will soon be a major concern of student government. the SLC, and others is thai of off-campus housing. This spl·rific issue itself will he discussed, but hopefully within the context of a somewhat more important question, namely, should Notre Dame be solely a residential University? 
The primary difficulty with the topic is that everybody's argument. no matter what the content, is based on copious appeals to the ideal of c·ommunity. This idea is, of course, tremendously ambiguous, because everyone admits that com1nunity involves >ome sort of sharing, but few seem to agree on the content or method of sharing. 
II. case can be made against the idea of a residential University in this way: a University is a community of scholars, and the community sl10uld therefore involve a sharing of scholarly activities; since the sharing ought to be of this particular type. there seems to be no reason for demanding a residential community, which involves sharing of non-academic factors, i.e. hall life. 
The alternative approach (demanding a residential university) might say something like this: a University is, granted, a community of scholars. hut the community need not be limited to a sharing of just academic activities; the scholar is also a social animal, and it would also be beneficial for the community aspect to include the sharing of broadly social activities, e.g. hall life. 
The question of which theoretical argument makes more sense is only going to be resolved ultimately by observing the effect that off-campus living has had on the "community" so far. lias this non-residential aspect of Notre Dame contribut.ed to community, not affected it, or affected it for the worse? 
The overall impression that one gets in observing Notre Dame now is that there an· two distinct communities: hall life an J off-campus living. One can debate whether hall life contributes positively to the overall existence of community, hut it seems pretty obvious that the existence of off-campus housing has had a substantially negative effcd. Living together in halls may or may not lead to a more communal spirit, but living separately. off and on campus, clearly leads to a separation of communities. 
It would be nice if the only thing required for a closely-knit University would he a sharing of academic activities, and in theorl' that is all that is required. Unfortunately, if the idea of cmnmunity is serious, and not just a campaign slogan for every senatorial. SLC, and SBP campaign of the last few years, then the only practical way of avoiding disunity and the creation of two distinct communities within the one University is a commitment to the idea of a 

FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENS-ES THE SHEA LAND BLDG.··132 S. MICHIGAN ST.--CEntra12-1468 
Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.--Chicaqo 

THE OBSERVER PAGE 3 
Soph. Literary 


Festival starts Sunday at 4 pm 
Sunday afternoon ~brold llaycs, the editor of /:"squire magazine, will kick off the I t)6t) Sophomore Class Literacy Fes­tival with a keynote address on "The Sarrcl1 for a New Literary Cencration" at 4 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. Mr. Hayes will he the first of seven noted literary figures to appear at the six day festival, which gained 


national prominence last year 
with the premier of Norman 
Mailer's film, "Beyond the 
Law", now playing across the 
country in art theaters. 
Sunday's program also fea­
tures LcRoi .Iones, well known 
militant hlalk dramatist, poet, 
and social critir, who will lecture 
on black drama at 8 p.m. in 
Washington llall. Jones' appear­
ance is co-sponsored hy this 
week's Black ll.rts Festival. 
One of the highpoints of the 
festival will be George Plimp­
ton's slide lecture in Stepan 
Center on March 26. Plimpton, 
editor of The l'aris Review and 
probably the nation's most 
atypical sports writer, will talk 
about his personal experiences as 
recounted in his two best-sellers, 
l'a{Jcr Lion and The Bogey Man. 
In selecting this diversified collection of literary figures, Festival Chairman Jim Metzger said, "We tried to get away from a seminar on novelists. We wanted to present a picture of what literature is today. So we brought the bits and pieces of that picture together here." Metzger added that most of the writers will he making appear­ances in classes and at private parties, and that arrangements arc now being made with the 1:nglish Department to enable students to attend these func­tions. 
John Knowles, who produced the award-winning novel in I t)60. A Separate Peace, will lecture in Washington Hall on March 27. On the following day, John Barth, whose prodigious novel, The Sot-Weed Factor, csta blished him as one of the nation's most promising young writers. will present a 90-minute program of reading from his works in Washington llall on March 28. 
Urgent-Ring lost: Initials F.C.R. '70 Please Call 8140. 
Thanks 
From one 
too happy Irishman 

Listt'n. "How do I low V.'riting a po('m. thP(', 1\[yrna, l<'t Ill(' count the ways ..." 
.3. That's Browning. 
4. That's Omar Khayyl'un. 


\Vhat about: "A jug of 

Then how am I goingwirw, a loaf of bread, 
to show i\!yrna how Anc~ thou, l\1r,rna, lllllt"h I care? lwsrdt' me ... 

5. \Vhy don't you sec if you can land OJH' of those great jobs Ec1uitahle is oH"ering. The work is fascinating, the pay good, and the opportunities unlimitt·d. All of which nwans you'll hl' a hie to take care of a wife, to say nothing of kids, cxtn·nwly W!'ll. 
"0, my i\!yrna is like a red, rPd rose ..." 
Fo~ deb~ils about careers at Ecjuitahle, st•e your Placement Officer, or wrrte: L10nd l\1. Stevens, Manager, College Employnwnt. 


THE rEQUITABLE 
The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States 
1285 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10019 
A11 Equal Opportunity Employer, M!F © Equitable 1968 
Bookstore halls New York Cast 


WEDNESDAY, MARCH 19,1969 PAI";E 4 

Hoosier cage fans face jail 
INDIANAPOLIS (UPI) Police will maintain a "floating jail" at the Indiana high school basketball tourney finals for anyone who misbehaves, accord­ing to lllSAA Commissioner Phil Eskew. 
Eskew said "We won't put up with any horseplay," as prepara­tions were being made for Saltlr­day's three game finals between Indian a polis Washington, Marion, Vincennes and Gary Tolleston. 
"When we're in the finals, we're definitely in the major leagues," said Eskew. "It's of the upmost importance that every­body be on their best behavior. We won't take any sass or guff." 
Eskew was referring to a chain reaction fight that broke out the night Washington beat city foe Indianapolis Attucks for the sectional crown. A number of persons were injured and several were arrested before order could be_ restored. 
Eskew told the coaches that if a boy loses his temper on the 
20 semifinals carded tonightplaying floor, "I'd get him out for a few minutes and let him calm down." Semifinals of the 38th annual 125 POUNDS chester. N.H.: Off-campus) vs. (junior; North Massapequa, 
"We'll have a great tourney. If Bengal Bouts are slated tonight Ed Ferrer (junior: l'anama, Pan­Bill Colden (freshman; Dallas, N.Y.; Off-campus). Matt Con­it gets out of hand, those rcspon­in the South Dome of the Con­ama: St. Ed's) vs. Ralph Bianco Tex.: Off-campus). nelly (sophomore; Chicago, Ill.; si b I c arc the officials, the vocation Center. The first of 20 (junior, Peekskill, N.Y.; Sorin). 135 POUNDS Alumni) vs. Jack Pierce (junior: coaches and the principals." bouts begins at 8 p.m. Jack Griffin (sophomore; Man-Paul P. Partyka (junior; Phila­West Roxbury, Mass.: Dillon). 
delphia, Pa.; Holy Cross) vs. HEAVYWEIGHT 
Tom Kress (sophomore; Fayette­ Chuck Landolfi (senior; Ellwood  
ville, N.Y.: Brecn-Phillips). Fbby  City.  Pa.:  Off-campus)  vs.  Bill  
Moran  (senior:  Oak  Park.  Ill.:  (;au!  (freshman:  River  Forest,  
Fisher)  vs.  Jamie  Egan  (fre~h­ Ill.:  Cavanaugh).  Denny  Allan  
man;  Chicago  Ill.;  Brccn-Phil­ (sophomore;  Ashtabula,  Ohio:  
lips).  Keenan) vs.  Hank Meyer (sopho­ 
145 POUNDS  more:  Leonia.  N.Y.;  Off-cam­ 
Tom  Sud des  (sophomore;  pus).  
Springfield,  Ill.: Of-campus) vs.  
Simon ................................,........................................................................ Munhall,  Kovalik (sophomore; Pa.: Brcen-Phillips) .  Maybe 70 cars  
Rainy spring ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. (UPI)~ Tom Seaver, the good right arm of the New York Mets, was driving out to the ballpark the other morning with Jcrry Koosman, the good left arm. The two of them talked about the kind of spring this had been. They had no trouble arriving at the same conclusion. They agreed this had been a bum spring. What they had in mind primarily was their pitching but they could've thrown in the Florida weather for the same money. It's been wretched. What with all the rain and dampness, some baseball people are going around saying this has been one of the worst springs on record. The only other one close in recent times was that dreary, depressing dampener I 0 years ago. Wally Moses, the Detroit ciach but then with Cincinnati, remembers that one well. "It rained so much that spring, none of the clubs were getting any work," he says. "Gabe Paul, running the Reds then, flew the whole ball club down to Cuba. We were just getting ready to land in Ilavana when l happened to glance out of the window. I nudged Gabe and said, 'look, rain." The bad weather isn't what's disturbing Seaver and Kosman so much, however. They're thinking about their performances this spring, which have been pretty much the same as the weather. Lousy. "Jerry and I were talking about it coming out to the ballpark," said Seaver, who won 16 ball games for his second straight season with the Mcts last year compared with the 19 wins Koosman clicked off as a rookie. "I've been hit both limes I pitched and so has Jerry," Seaver went on. "I worked three innings a piece against the Cardinals and Red Sox and gave  For a ballplayer, Tom Seaver has deep under­standing about human capacities and emotions. For a 24-year-old ballplayer, he has uncommon understanding. "I don't like to judge anything on a single basis," he says. "You draw wrong conclusions that way. But if things don't go right my next time out, I would say it possibly might be of some concern to me." Next time is today and the opposition is the Los Angeles Dodgers, a club Seaver usually is at his best against. Seaver's trouble so far has been that his ball hasn't been moving; Koosman's problem is dif­ferent. He isn't getting the ball down. "I think it's a matter of getting my timing and rhythm adjusted and once that happens I'll be all right," Koosman said. He didn't have either his first two times out, the Phillics clubbing him for five runs in two innings and Kansas City's expansion Royals for three runs in three innings. Next time for him is Thursday when he gels another shot at the Phillies. Koosman. a year older than Seaver at 25, barely missed being selected as the I968 rookie of the year on the face of his 19-l 2 record and super­lative 2.0R earned run average. He enjoyed a good part of the winter in New York as a celebrity because the people there aren't used to seeing anybody with the Mcts win 19 games. Ilis only bad moment came When accidentally spilled hot butter on his left index finger while fixing some popcorn l~ul everything's fine now except his ERA and Koos isn't particularly wor­ried about thai. One reason he feels good is the Mets' hitting, up around .300 now. "We're gonna do all right this year," Koosman  Gary Canori (freshman; Water­town, N.Y.; Farley) vs. Claudio Cerulli (junior; Chicago Heights, Ill.: Dillon). ISO POUNDS Bob McGrath (senior; Oak Park, Ill.; Sorin) vs. Val Bcrnabo (sophomore: Miami, Fla.; Breen­Phillips). Aaron Baker (sopho­more: Cleveland, Ohio; Alumni) vs. Jim Hansen (junior; North­brook, Ill.; Off-campus). 160 POUNDS Tom Wagoner (freshman; Lake­wood, Ohio; Breen-Phillips) vs. Jed Ervin (junior: Kansas City, Mo.; Walsh). Fred Deboe (sopho­more; Hammond, Ind.; Off-cam­pus) vs. Hal Smith (freshman; Wappingers Falls, N.Y.; Keenan). 165 POUNDS Dan Johndrow (junior; Millbrae, Calif.; Off-campus) vs. Joe Mur­ray (sophomore; Brockton, Mass.; Off-campus). Dave Snedi­~cr (senior; Edina, Minn.; St. .I osc ph) vs. Chris Servant (junior; Attleboro Falls, Mass.: Alumni). 175 POUNDS Tom Breen (senior: Northbrook, Ill.: Walsh) vs. Bill Etter (fresh­man: Spokane. Wash.: Holy Cross). John McGrath (senior; Michigan City, Ind.: Dillon) vs. Bob Larson (fifth-year; Benson, Ariz.; Carroll). 185 POUNDS Tony Kluka (senior; Kenosha, Wise.; Fisher) vs. Joe Renicc  in 500 field INDIANAPOLIS (UPl)­Cars have been assigned to three more drivers in the Indianapolis "500" Memorial Day race. Rookie Lcs Scott and veterans Roger McCluskey and Johnny Rutherford were added to the list of drivers Monday who will be battling for the 33 positions on the starting grid. Speedway president Tony Hulman specu­lates that 70 cars might be entered this year. Scott, who passed his rookie drivers test in 1967, will be making his third attempt to qualify a machine owned by B. J. Navarro of Clendalc, Calif. Navarro will also serve as chief mechanic for the car, which will be powered by a 200 cubic inch six cylinder supercharged Nav­arro Potter engine. McCluskey will he aboard one of two L·ars entered jointly by A. J. Foyt and James ll. Greer, both of Houston, Tex. A.J. Foyt Sr. will serve as crew chief for the 161 cubic inch torbochargcd Fords. Rutherford, a 31-ycar-old Texan bidding for his sixth "5 00" starting berth, will pilot a car entered last month by Michner Petroleum, Inc., of Jackson. Mich.  
up four hits and two runs in both games. Docs it  says. "I  think we'll finish  in  the money." Seaver  
bother me? Let  me put it this way: I'm concerned  goes furth··  
about  what  happens  any  time  I go  out  to  the  "I  might  be  a  supreme  optimist,  hut  I think  
mound. You always try  to  do your best. It's the  we've got a chance to be in the World Series."  
ego  factor.  You  don't  want  to  be embarrassed  A year ago everybody would  laugh at  a  state­ 
because people in the stands arc always watching  ment like that. Now nobody laughs. Life is funny.  
and so arc your teammates."  So is baseball.  

Denny Allan ducked this Chuck Landolfi left hook during last year's heavyweight final, but lost the fight on a decision. Will they meet again in the 1969 Bengals? Only if each wins a semifinal match tonight in the Convocation Center. Allan meets Hank Meyer and Landolfi battles Bill Gaul. Eighteen other bouts are scheduled, beginning at 8:00p.m. 




