THE WORLD TODAY 
Nixon proposes cut In federal budget 
WASIIJN(;T()N (UPJ) -The Nixon administration yesterday proposed lopping $4 billion off the new federal budget by cutting spending for every agancy except the crime fighting Justice Department. 
Under the President's spending plans which he wants substituted for the budget drawn t.p by former President Lyndon B. Johnson, the Defense Department would be cut $1.1 billion. Lowering proposed Social Security benefits increases would save another $1 billion and $ 1.9 billion would be sliced from agenies ranging from Space to Agriculture. 

The proposed Nixon budget for fiscal 1970 beginning July 1 would toto.li $19 2.9 billion compared with the $I 96.9 billion Johnson suggested in .1anuary. The new administration's spending plans would be about $6 billion higher than estimated outlays for the current fiscal year. 
Class' boycoH continues at Harvard 
( UPI) About two thirds of the 4,XOO undergraduates at Harvard University kl·pt a student strike going through a fourth day yesterday in a protest triggered by police ouster of 200 demonstrators from a campus building. 
A history professor thwarted a small oand of Harvard strikers who tried to disrupt his class. Ten students entered the classroom of Prof. Samuel Huntington, marched to the front of the room and tried to make him stop the session. 
Huntington sent a student to get police and the protesters walked out. 
The Harvard facult:. met to discuss the unrest which erupted last Wedne~day in a prot ~st over the Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROT< ), on campus military recruiting and university expansion. 
Thousands flee North Dakota floods W ASHINCTON (UPI)-Search national security affairs adviser, Nixon and his staff went out planes swept the Sea of Japan Dr. Henry A. Kissinger. of their way to react calmly.
( UPI) -Thousands of persons streamed out of Minot, N.D., and 
under protective cover of jet "The President will be kept Nixon has often said that he other flood harried communities in the upper Midwest yesterday as 
fighter escorts yesterday for informed of this matter does not believe in the White snow-gorged rivers struggled to burst their bonds. 
signs of an unarmed U.S. Navy throughout the day," a House encouraging an attitude Authorities said 9,500 of Minot's 34,000 residents would be out reconnaissance plane which spokesman said. of crisis. 
of their homes and safe on higher ground by last night ahead of a North Korea claimed it shot The President briefed Under some previous 
new crest expected to surge down the normally placid Mouse River. 
down with 31 men aboard. Republican congressional leaders administrations, although theyThe swollen Mississippi River neared an expected crest at St. Paul The Defense Department said at the White House on available did basically the same thingMinn., and residents of the Minnesota capital city-where hundred~ only that the plane, capable of de t a i Is. The legis! a tors said Nixon was doing in a like of suburban residents already were refugees·-braced for three days carrying six tons of radar and afterward that they had been situation, the feeling-theof battle with Old Man River. 
other electronic monitoring gear, asked to keep quiet until more atmosphere-was electric with Dow~river_ from St. Paul, lowland residents stepped up had been missing since about was known. excitement. 
evacuatiOns m Wisconsin riverside cities. Pollee took over milk midnight EST Monday. One of them, Sen. Hugh Nixon's low-keyed reaction delivery in one section of Prairie du Chien, Wis., and the mayor of 
"We have no information at S co tt , R. Pa., said the was based on two things:La Crosse, Wis., asked for a National Cuard patrol of dikes. 
this time which confirms the administration was considering -The United States still was sighting of any survivors," it said "all appropriate measures." trying to piece together all theJury still out In Sirhan murder trial late yesterday morning. Nixon scheduled a meeting of information needed to know North Korea, in a radio broad­the National Security Council exactly what happened over the
LOS ANGI;LES (lJPJ) The jury in the murder trial of Sirhan B. 
cast monitored in Tokyo, said for I 0 a.m. Wednesday at which Sea of Japan.
Sirhan failed to reach a verdict in the second day of deliberations 
the plane was downed "with a the loss of the EC 12 I was sure -The President believes that yesterday on the fate of the young Arab charged with the murder of single shot at a high altitud"e" to be discussed, hut spokesmen past administrations oftenSen. Robert F. Kennedy. 
after it had infiltrated deep into said the meeting was set before reacted too rapidly to suchThe seven men and five women of the jury• returned in late its air space. the incident. incidents.
afternoon to thl' hotel where they haVl' been locked up nightly for 
The Pentagon said the aircraft
the past lwo months and prepared to resume their attempt to reach "A d . F d " 
had orders to fly no closer than on ca em 1c ree om a decision Wednesday. 
50 nautical miles from the North
Attorneys for both sides would nol read into the failure to reach a 
Korean coast and was actually 


Mandate sent to SI.C
quick verdict any special significance, hut the consensus among 
90 miles at sea when last heard
courthouse observers was that it did not bode well for the Several topics were discussed in vain to argue the issues of the
from. North Korea claims its air
prosecution demand for a finding of first degree murder. 
and sea space extends 12 miles and acted upon last night at the recent controversial conference, meeting of the Notre Dame or "any other activity of the
from its shores. Smaller cars proven more dangerous Vice President Spiro T. Student Senate. University." As a result of its findings, the
Agnew said that the administra­A written report of an 
WASIIINCTON (UI'I) Chances of being killed or s•~riously investigation into the committee rccom mended that
tion belicvl~s the plane was more
injured in an auto accident arc three times greater for pel"sons in 
than I00 nautical miles off the Pornography and Censorship the Senate "mandate the 
snwll foreign l:ars than for passengers in big American made autos, a Conference was distributed and Student Life Council to establish
North Korean coast when it was
government safety expert sayd yesterday. a clear definition of Academic
explained by report chairmanattacked.
Dr. Robert Brenner _:;aid German Volkswagens roll over four A spokesman said the air John Zimmerman. The report Freedom." times as often as A mcrican cars and "there is an indication the rear sought to clarify the issue of The committee findings were
craft, carrying 30 Navy person­engine is producing this." nel and an enlisted Marine, was Academic Freedom, pointing accepted by the Senate and the on a routine reconnaissance mis­out that confusion arising from recommendation passed. 
confrontations during the In other action, the Senate
AI Capp blasts Harvard radicals sion similar to hundreds flown over international waters in that Conference was due to "a lack discussed and approved recent of a common understanding of cabinet appointments made by
WASIJJNGTON (UPI) -AI Capp, the cartoonist who created area since 1950. 
what Academic Freedom is." SBP Phil McKenna. Approval forvoluptuous Daisy Mac, told 3,000 prim and propr~r delegates to the Its specific mission was not The committee Pornography people newly occupying the
Daughters of the American Revolution annual convention that he disclosed. The assumption report reviewed events of the posts was generally voiced by
"still preferred to sec our flag being waved than being burned." among other informed quarters conference, quoted discussions Senate members last night. Some
"I have seen the second American revolution on the Harvard was that it probably was moni­toring Soviet and Communist of involved people, and included debate arose, however, over the
campus," Capp told the ladies Monday, "and it's more like the one a number of definitions of Student Government
in (; crmany in the 1930s." Chinese communications. 
Academic Freedom by appointment of Bernie Ryan to
"Brown shirts or Students for a Democratic Society--Nazis arc The Soviet Union, Japan and South Korea were asked to assist representatives of the factions of the j o h of Off-Campus
Nazis," Capp said. 
Capp, who said he lives "a stone's throw" from Harvard's in the search, centered in the Sea this university. Coordinator. Breen-Phillips Cambridge, Mass. Campus, blasted the tactics of today's student of Japan 95 miles southeast of The report concluded there Senator Richard Hunter said the radicals. lie said he would listen to dissent in the form of debate the northern North Korean was nothing ocmmon among the general feeling in his hall was 

Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
VOL. Ill, NO. 115 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16, 1969 
•

U.S. plane down 1n Korea 
seaport of Chongjin. The U.S. different definitions of academic that Ryan's appointment
"but once it takes the form of throwing rocks then that kid is a freedom received and that none "smacked of cronyism." II u ntcr 
criminal and should he treated as such." d cstroycrs Tucker and Dale steamed out of Sasebo, Japan, to of the dcfin'itions was sufficient. said that Ryan's political
The l:artoonist called the Rev. Theodore llcshurgh, prl'sidcnt of 
Notre Dame UniVl'rsity, the "greatest educator in Amcril:a today" join the operation. In addition, it was the finding of qualifications were not bdng The White llouse said the pornography investigating questioned, but supported his
for his recent ultimatum to student activists engaged in unlawful President Nixon was awakened committee that until there is a statement by referring to
acts. lleshurgh said the students would be giwn IS minutes to early in the morning it did not widely known and dearly Dedrick's labeling Ryan "the
"ml·ditate" and then he expelled, unless they desisted. "If I.-ather Heshurgh doesn't makl' Pope, I want him to be the new say at what hour-and told of understood definition of hero of the off-campus thl' loss of the plane by his acadl·mil: freedom, it would he ckction."
director of the FBI," Capp said. 
THE OBSERVER WEDNESDAY. APRIL 16, 1969
PAGE 2 
Student arrested 1n• Hampton protest march 
A Notre Dame student, Harry Tarkenton, was arrested :n Hampton County, South Caro­lina while participating in a pro­test march. Tarkenton was c. 
member of the NAACP Easter Project sponsored by the Notre Dame student government. He was charged with "obstructing traffic." 
The march was led by the head of the local branch of the NAACP, Mr. Michael Moors. Pete Mcinerney, the NO student who organized the trip, <:om­mented on the purpose of the 'llarch. 
"We wanted to show solidar­ity and unification of local black power. We marched on the post office because it was the only federal building in town. The building itself was merely a symbol ot the federal govern­ment." 
The purpose of the trip was "voter rcgistrat ion, and a pov­erty survey to substantiate the charge, that the OFO had short­changed Hampton County on poverty funds." 
According to Mcinerney, about 250 people participated in the march. Twenty-five students from the trip participated, in­cluding three St. Mary's girls and one student from Holy Cross junior college. 
The march covered about a mile. The participants carried signs concerning "jobs, recrea­tion facilities, and increased wel­fare benefits." 
Upon arriving at the Post Office, "we walked past it and crossed the street several times. The police grabbed Harry, who group which was also refused service." 
"We called the FBI and the next day they sent down a couple of agents. We filed charges against the owner and we expect the government to prosecute them for violation of the Civil Rights Act," Mcinerney declared. 
After their release the group marched back to their assembly point. During the march Mciner­ney claimed "some kid drove a VW through the line of march." Several students narrowly missed being hit. The police immediate­ly arrested him and charged him with "reckless driving and as­sault with intent to kill." 
That night the group met to decide on their course of action. A march was planned for the next day but some students re­fused to participate for fear of arbitrary arrest. Mcl nerncy con­tacted Fr. Theodore Hesburgh 
Mcl nerney also told lleshurgh 
that a special representative 
from the governor had warned 
the students that if violence oc­
cured during the march they 
would be charged with "crossing 
state lines with intent to incite a 
riot." 
"Fr. Hesburgh promised to do 
all he could if there was an~' 
students arrested," Mcinerney 
remarked. 
Fr. llcshurgh, when contacted 
Monday, stated that he "knew 
about the trip since they've been 
going down there for the past 
four years, but I did not know 
about tile march." He went on 
to say that he had "advised them was ncar the end of the line and arrested him for blocking traf­fic," Mcinerney said. 

Mcinerney commented that he felt that "the charge was not legitimate, under the circum­stances." 
Mcinerney stated upon seeing Tarkcnton arrested, Mike Moore Jr., son of the head of the NAACP chapter, walked over to find out what was going on. He was also arrested, for interfering with an officer in the line of duty. 
When Moore resisted, the po­
Carnl~ne Blake, "youth leader" of the NAACP, was also arrested on the same charge. 
"Upon hearing of the arrest of her husband and son, Mrs. Moore went over to the jail and attempted to gain entry. She was rduscd, and when she attempted to get in, she was elbowed in the face by a cop," Mel nerney de­clared. 
The marchers arrived at the jail, and asked for and received permission to stage a sit-in. The sit-in lasted for about six hours, at the end of which all persons arrested except Mike Moore Jr. 



lice promptly charged him with "threatening the life of a sheriff. 
"Seeing his son being arrested, Mr. Moore came over t(') advise him to go peacefully. He was then arrested, for interfering with an officer in the line of duty," Mcinerney stated. 
were released on $500 bail. Moore's bail was set at $5000 because of the additional charge. Mcinerney also co1umented 
on what he felt was discrimna­tory treatment that the marchers received from people in town. 
"During the sit-in we sent 






some people to buy some food to contact the regional director
Seats Still Available On 
at a local restaurant. When the of the Civil Rights Commission owner learned that they were in case of any trouble."
ND·SMC 

with the group that had "The regional director is rightChuck Perrin and his sister Mary have a new album marched, he refused to serve on top of things and he would

Student Flight 

them. When they came back we be in the best position to help Bookstore and at AI Smith's downtown You'll find it at the Notre Dame Bookstore, St. Mary's immediately sent out a second them," Hesburgh declared.
to Europe 
$258 Round Trip BOAC 


-LAW STUDIES ­
Jet Fare; London-New York 
June 9 -August 6 

·STUDENT'S EYE VIEW-
Brian 289-4682 
An Invaluable Opportunity To
Call Immediately or Bill 283-1201 

Hear Students From: 
NORTHWESTERN • MICHIGAN • NOTRE DAME





vlon 
CONTOURATM 
Describe What Those 3 Years
with Diamonds of 
of Law School Are Like

Ultimate beauty 
Membership Sign-up [or 1969-70 Pre-Law Society



invent 
Architecture Auditorium • Thursday, April 17 • 8:00 p.m. 

the first 


You keep Aunking
® 

your best subject?'


ott1n Blusher'! 
Blushers and oily skin don't mix, right? Wrong. Here's the first one with a special ingredient that blots up oil as it blushes on color. It's oil free~ Medicated. In S shades 
Illustration Enlarged
oil can't spoil, because no oil will break 
Her fondest dreams c.ome tn.e when you choose a Contoura 
Think it ove~ over coffee.
through. That's a promise. From Revlon. 
diamond bridal set. 

Natural Wonder ~Blotting Blusher' 
TheThink Drink.
byo<eotve~ 

Available at: Diamond lmportCo 
THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS 
St. Mary's College Book Store 
-;-WHOLESALE­

SEEN BY APPOINTMENT Fpr your own Th1nk Drink Mug, send 75C and your name and addre-ss to:

2927'1' MISHAWAKA AVE. 

Think Dr1nk Mug, Dept. N, P.O. 6011559. N~w York, N.Y. 10046. ThP lnleornal•onal Coffee.Organ•ZIIIO" PHONE 287-1427 
-

Tll6 OBSERVER
WEDNESDAY APRIL 16 1969 
PAGE 3 

leor speaks on Mideast Defends Israeli goals 
SUMMER JOBS 

WE HAVE A SPECIAL JOB JUST FOR YOU! 
National Agency of Student Employment r 0. Box 52492 N.;w Ocleons, Louisiana 70 1SO 
(a;h '] Cneck [] Money Orrler 0 
•:OENTLEMEI\, PI_EASE ',CJC 1969 SU,V.MER JOB DIRECTORIES CHECKED BELOW. 
0 VACATION RESORT JOBS ... . .... . .. -·-···------·-· _ $3.00 Work wrth <,tuJcnts at Arnerrca·~ fine;t Re>orts. 
0 FOREIGN JOBS $3.00 Gain valuable experiences abroad with pay. 
0 CAREER TRAINING OPPOR~UNITIES . . __ ... ··-·--··-··---· $3.00 Start your career working with America's best companies. 
[] SPECIAL OFFER --Our latest bulletin which contains 
all three job fields plus a special job assignment for you. 
Please state interest and desired locativn $4.00 
A member of the Chicago Israeli Delegation, Mr. Lcor, discussed the Middle Eastern problem last ewning in the law auditorium, and darificd the reason for the extreme difficulty in bringing peace to that part of the world. 
"The problem is very complex," Mr. Leur pointed out, "because emotion as well as fads arc involved. The reason Arabs and Jews cannot sit down and come to a mutual agreement is simple, and that reason is the qut·stion of Israel's existence. The Arabs have told us, 'Your very ex islencc is an aggression against our nations.' " 
!.cor presented a brief resume of the struggle of the Jcwish people since the creation of the slate of Israel in 1948, and mentioned that Israel is fon;ed to livt' continually in an atmosphere comparable to that 
New dorm named 
The University has announced that it is naming one of the four new high rise dorms Joseph 1'. (;race llall in memorial to the fathl·r of the donor of the hall, Mr. J. Peter Crace. 
The younger Mr. (;race, a 111emher of the Board of Trustees and President of W.R. Cracl' and Company, a shipping company which employs over 6X,OOO people, donated the 
money  for  the  construction  of  
the  uorm.  The  dorm  which  is  
currently  under  construction  

will accomodatc 250 students and will he done hy September. 
The elder Mr. Grace, after whom the dorm will be named, was a dose friend and advisor of the late John Cardinal O'Hara, C.S.C., and Notre Dame President from 1934 to 1939. lie received an honorary degree fromthc University in 1937. 
of the Cuban crisis. 

"Israel wants nothing hut peace," he continued, "and the Big Four powers cannot legislate or impose peace on unwilling peoples." 
Mr. Leur emphasized the vulnerable position that his nation was in, and noted that the United Nations guarantees of security for Israel were hardly sufficient to frighten the Arabs into wanting a lasting peace. 
"Western peoples find it difficult ot understand the Arab logic, which is content to wage u minor war for a hundred years until their aim is achieved," he suggested. 
"Only by recognizing the right of Israel to survive can uny hope of a lasting peace be achieved. Yet we arc now engaged in a war, under the guise of tcrrori~m, and we will continue to treat guerilla attacks as requiring so me Isrucli answer." 
"When you fight for your life, you don't fight with gloves." 
Lcor concluded his talk by emphasizing again that the only wish of till' Jewish people is thut they be allowed to live in peace in a peaceful world. 


Blow Yourself 
To

UPPOSTER SIZE 
2 ft. X 3 ft. 

Send ony llod orMt Whit. or Color Photo from 21·•• • 21:•• to I a 10. We will wnd you o l ft. , J ft. BLO.UP ... po<foct POP.ART POSTER. 
1\125 


S] 50
v11lut'for • 
3 X 4Ft. Blo-Up $7.50 

Add SOc 1., post. & hdlq. EACH. No C.O.D. Add local Sole. T o• Send Ch.ek or Money Onkr10: 
PHOTO POSTER. l1c. 
210 E. 23rd Sa., Drpt. M~ 
New York, N. \'. 10010 
Doalo.. ................... 

You can earn an give you the train­

How much is 

extra $50 a week, ing, but you decide your spare even more. 
when you'll use it. That's up to you. For complete de­

time worth? 

Because when tails. write or call: 
Jack Prewitt

you're selling for 
Sherland Building 

Wear-Ever, you'll Room S.28·A South Bend, Indiana
have a flexible 
46601 

schedule that will Wear-Ever is an not conflict with equal opportunity your studies. We company. 
WEAR ·EVER fi1Al.cOA 


"I'm a masochist. Ithrew away my mstruct1ons on self-defense:' 

A little pain is one thing, but sheer disaster is something else. We put instructions on self-defense in every package of Hai Karate® After Shave and Cologne for your own safety, be­cause we know what girls can do to an under-protected, over-splashed guy. So please read the instructions ... even if it doesn't hurt. 
Hai Karate-be careful how you use it. 



CLASS ELECTIONS f~r next year's Soph., Junior, & Senior CLASS OFFICERS 
(I)  Pick Up Petitions  -April  16  6pm  
(2)  Return Petitions  -April 18  I lam  
(3)  Campaign Begins  -April  18  12noon  
(1)  Campaign Ends  -April 23  2am  
(5)  Election Day  -April 23  


PAGE 4 TlfEOBSE~VE.~R~----------------------~W~E~D~NE~S~D~AY~·~A~P~RI~L~1~6,~1~969 


Irish offense-a question mark 
The cover of the spring foot-try Scott Hempel there instead Patulski pushing for places in the ball guide sent out by the ND of at linebacker. line. Sophomore Pat Mudron Sports Information Office is Veterans Paul Snow and Nick also returns. trying to make a point. There Furlong will have their hands Defensive Captain Bob Olson are eleven small rectangles on full trying to nail down the split heads up a strong crew of line­that cover representing the of-end post. Two talented fresh­backer prospects: Joe Freebery, fensive team and in nine of them men, Mark Brandt and Bill Tim Kelly, and Larry Schu­are question marks. The other Trapp, both 6'3", figure to give macker-from last year; Bob two, left guard and tackle, are the vets a battle. On the other 
'IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJ 

filled by pictures of Larry side of the line, junior Dewey DiNardo and Jim Reilly. Poskon (6'4", 220 lb.) has fresh-
Basketball 

Apparently, Ara Parseghian is man Scott Williams (6'2", 210 Two-time Irish basketballin trouble this year. lb.) to worry about. 
captain Bob Arnzen has beenNot quite.. As football prac-Besides praying that Theis­selected, as one of fifteen senior tice gets into high gear this mann gets bigger, Ara had better scholar-athletes, to receive aweek, there are plenty of candi-pray he doesn't get hurt. The $I ,000 postgraduate scholarship.
dates to erase those other ques-roster lists six other signal callers There were three five-mantion marks. but none is a letterman. And the divisions in the award group,Actually, the cover is slightly frosh qb's are not particularly 
sponsored by the NCAA: 
far-fetched. No one is going to promising. On the other hand, University, College, and At-large. 
remove Joe Theismann (If someone should invent another In order to qualify, these seniors coaches' prayers could grow ball-backfield position to take care earned better than a 3.0 averageplayers, Theismann would be a of the overflow. Denny Allan and performed well on the high-rise dorm) from the quar-and Ed Ziegler are back, but the hardwood. In the Universityterback spot. The little sopho-hDopla is all about the freshmen: division along with Arnzen ( 3.07 
more (6'0, 170 lbs.) was sixth in Tom Gatewood, Andy Huff, and 
in Economi.:s) arc: John
rushing and tied for fourth in Bob Minnix. If Ernie Jackson's Suminski, Seton Hall (3.4 inscoring last year, besides being knee holds up, he'll be in the 
History); Wayne Hucke!,
the runner-up passer. thick of the fight. Fullback let-Davidson (3.68 in Psychology);Feeding Joe the ball will terman Jeff Zimmerman won't Joseph Smith, Oklahoma Stateprobably be Mike Oriad, a 6'-3", have an easy time holding off 
(3.77 in Business
215 lb. junior who started most freshman John "Cisco" Cies­
Administration); and Kenny
of the second half of last season. zkowski. 
Heitz, UCLA (3.29 in
There are several hopefuls for The defense should eat a few Economics.)
the other line slots. Two-year teams up this year. John Ray 
1111111111111111111111

letterman Chuck Kennedy (6'3", left a solid team behind him, 
240 lb.) and Terry Brennan with only a weakness at defcn­
(6'4", 230 lb.) should play the sive end. Mike McCoy and Bob 

Baseball 

• 
other tackle spot. There are no Jockish will nail down two jobs, Back in the North after a ret urn ing lettermen besides with freshmen AI Pope, Mike Texas vacation trip, Jake Kline's .~D;..;i;;.N,;.;a;;.r.;;;d.;;;o...::.at;:...Jig:.:u::.:a;;.rd::.,...::.an::.:.;.d...:A..:.:..:ra:....:.:m::.:a:.:Y~.:Z:.:i.:.:k.::.as::.,_G:::'.:..re:;;g.__..:;M::.;a~r.:;z:.:.,_.:::a;:.:n~:d:~W.:..:..::a~lt::___ diamond nine defeated Detroit in an away game last Monday, 6-3. The Irish picked up six runs in the first inning, all unearned.
DlJl.seII/ Jlkillltl& 
A bases-loaded error iet in one run and catcher Jim Wright's
double brought in three more.
Oaf' ··~ 
Notre Dame, now 3_ on the
3

M lttE fiiNfST El'ECtASSES AND CONTACT LENSES 
year, then failed to get a hit for the remaining eight innings. Jim 1M~ -.DO. -132 5. MICHIGAN ST.-CEnlrol2·1-Phelps, who drove in Wright with a first stanza single, raised
r/NJloiiSt ofVision l11t. 
his pitching log to 2-0. He got relief help from Ron Schmitz in
Mew. OMc.. 135 N. W.._. Ave.-,...... 
theeighthinning. 

--------~~~~~~~~~-------------------· 

GOT THAT RUN DOWN FEELING THIS SPRING? 
GET BACK ON TOP WITH 
GRAND PRIX '69 

MAY 10, MAY 17 
A PRESENTATION OF THE STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Neidert, Vito Racanelli, and Jim Wright off the injury list; and freshmen Eric Patton and Tim Zuber. 
Last year's trouble spot, the 
defensive backfield, looks solid. 
John Gasser, Don Reid, Jay 
1111111111111111111111 




Sailing 

Tt1e Sailing Club captured first place in the Columbus Star Trophy Regatta on April 12-13. The meet, held at Ohio State's course, consisted of fourteen schools. The University of Michigan placed second with Ohio Wesleyan third. Ritchie Doyle, crewed by Jerry Mehm, was the low-point skipper in "A" Division. 
Over the weekend of April 5-6, the Irish ventured to Boston for the Boston Dinghy Cup. The competition, among others the Jvy League, Navy and the Coast Guard, proved to be too tough and ND finished far down the seventeen-team field. 
The Club freshmen held a 
meet over the March 29-30 
weekend. In 20 degree weather, 
Wisconsin took first. Notre 
Dame was third, behind Ohio 
Wesleyan. The best skipper of 
the regatta came from Southern 
Illinois. When two boats 
capsized, the last race of "B" 
Division was cancelled. 
111111111111111111111 

Crew 

Back in the great Northeast, Notre Dame's Crew Club placed 
third in the seventh annual Grimaldi Memorial Regatta after winning two of three dual meets. The Irish dropped a race to the University of Massachusetts, but came back to defeat Worcester Poly and Amherst. Last Standring, and Chuck Zloch re­turn. Good-looking newcomers are Clarence Ellis, who packs plenty of speed, and Ralph Stepaniak, who ran an inter­ception back for a TD in a frosh game this fall. 
Saturday, Villanova took the Grimaldi title, edging out East Carolina in 6:58.2 over the 2,000 meter course. Notre Daem pulled in three lentghs behind in 
7: 12.6, thirteen seconds ahead of Holy Cross. The Irish almost didn't get to compete as host St. John's (the meet was held at Orchard Beach, the Bronx) didn't come up with the promised shell. Blessed Sacrament High School of New Rochelle provided one. 
The Irish trosh led from start to finish to win their Grimaldi race. They held off Villanova, winning in 7:21.4. Earlier ir, the week, Notre Dame beat Worcester but lost to a powerhouse high school delegation from St. John's of Worcester. The Irish also lost to the Amherst JV and the U. of Massachusetts. 
'11111111111111111111 



Schedule 

TENNIS-Thursday vs. Toledo at ND, 3:00 PM. Saturday vs. Marquette and DePaul at ND, 
10:00 AM and I:00 PM. 

BASEBALL-Friday vs. Bowling Green at ND, 3:00PM. Satur­day vs. Bowling Green at ND, 2:00PM. 
GOLF-Saturday, Illinois Inter­
collegiate at Champaign, Illin­
ois. 
TRACK Saturday, Ohio State Relays at Columbus, Ohio. 



