Honor Council 
statement 
Notre Dame Community, 
We, the members of the Notre Dame I Ion or Council, after considerable deliberation have decided that we will suspend all of our administrative activities and that all council members will take an indefinite leave of absence until such time as the Notre Dame community determines the future of the Honor Concept. 
We have found it necessary to take these actions for several reasons. The Honor Council, as it was originally conceived, must reflect the community's commitment to academic honesty. The current situation makes it apparent to us that the community is no longer committed to this concept. We arc convinced that the total number of cases reported represents only a small fraction of the actual violations. We arc further convinced that, while most individuals seem to uphold personal honesty, they do not consider the honesty of thcrs to be their concern. In this context the penalty system has failed to serve a constructive purpose for the violators. We can no longer, in good conscience, continue to levy penalties only on the few violators that arc brought to our attention while many other violators arc granted impunity. 
We, the forty members of the Honor Council, refuse to accept any longer the burden of enforcing a concept which is ignored by the student body. Since we have become aware that the Council no longer represents the dominant concept of Honor in the community we have had to make this difficult decision. We now ask the community to carefully consider and to finally decide the fate of the Honor Concept at this University. We, as in the past, will remain dedicated to the original goals of the concept. 
Respectfully submitted, 
The Student Honor Council Senator Kennedy's April 4 


stopover at Notre Dame-his speech which was the kick-off of his primary run in Indiana and, in fact, of all the primaries throughout the nation of which Mr. Kennedy was a part. With many of the audience who had participated, Mr. Mankiewicz remembered Senator Kennedy's second visit to Notre Dame on May 6 of last spring and the longest motorcade in political history which took Senator Kennedy from South Bend through Indiana and eventually into Illinois. 
Mankicwicz spoke highly of Senator Kennedy's reception in Indiana, which he called "a microcosm of all that which was going on in America in the years leading up to 1968 and which was lost with the death of Robert Kennedy." 
Contrary to current opinion, Mankiewicz said, Oregon was poor, black and white." 
Mankiewicz stressed Senator Kennedy's hope of "coalescing 
the black urban poor and the lower middle-class white, a coalition which, though not easy, went exceptionally well for Robert Kennedy." 
Concerning the future of teh Democratic Party, Mankiewicz said that "the Party as it exists today cannot effectively deal with the problems facing the nation, but that because of its deliberately vulnerable nature, the party is open to reform." He said that although Hubert Humphrey does not hold the position needed to bring about change in the Democratic Party, "such individuals as Ted Kennedy, Edmund Muskie and George McGovern arc creeping upon the public scenes and responding to their party's need." 

TMH: "We couldn't bar police" 
The following is the text of a initiate legal action, stressed that statement issued yesterday by the members of the University the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, community should be given an President of the University con­opportunity to become cerning the Administration's acquainted with the facts and position in regard to the St. make a decision in a cairn, Joseph County Prosecutor's academic atmosphere. seizure of Andrew Noren's film "These deterring efforts on Friday. failed, and when an irresponsible 
"On behalf of the University public statement was made late 
community, I should like to Thursday that state law, in effect 
thank personally Mr. Philip was to be violated Friday at a 
Faccenda, Dean William Lawless, certain time and place, it was 
and the other members of the evident the University had no 
U n ivcrsity administration for legal right to bar entry of the 
their attempts to prevent prosecutor and his deputies to 
disturbance and maintain a spirit campus. 
of civility, rationality, and good "The events that followed 
will in the University com­were, of course, beyond the con­
munity during the past few trol of the TJniwrsily adminis­
troubled days. tration. I am confident the 
"Although it was not possible Student Life Council will study to avoid disturbance, we should the mat tcr thoroughly and not forget that Mr. faccenda objectively and make appro­and others, in conversations with priate recommendations." those who were determined to 


SLC moves on pornography,
Dining halls, hall life 
Yesterday at 3:00, the Student Life Council subcommittee investigating the events surrounding the Pornography and Censorship Conference met in a brief closed session. Charles Nau, chairman of the committee, read a statement of intent to the entire Council which met at 4:00 in the Center for Continuing Education. The subcommittee is composed of Prcfessor James Massey, Professor Charles Allen, Rev. Thomas Blantz, C.S.C., Brother John Scholle, C.S.C., Nau, and Michael McCauley. This committee will meet today at 12:30 to discuss procedure for its investigation. 
The only action taken by th~ Student Life Council last night concerning the Pornography Conference investigations, was the passage of a proposal by Professor Edward Murphy dealing with the SLC hearings. The proposal, listed in three parts, goes as follows: 
I) that a stenographic transcription (by a court stenographer) be made of the hearings, access to which shall be accorded to all members of the Student Life Council; 
2) that notice of all hearings be given to all members of the Student Life Council, with permission accorded to all members of the Student Life Council to attend, provided that recommendations be formulated only by the subcommittee; 
3) that any member of the Student Life Council who chooses to attend any of said hearings be entitled, so far as feasible, to participate in the questioning and discussion." 
Dean of Students, father James L. Riehle C. S.C., disqualified himself from participation in any hearings of discussions due to the fact that a number of students participating in the hearings may be brought up on disciplinary action by the University. 
Due to concern over student interest, SLC members Scott and Richard Rossie expressed dissatisfaction with the current frequency of meetings. .t\.s a result of a motion by Rossie, the SLC will meet every Monday until the Hall Life Report has been completely presented and voted upon. 
Also passed last night was a resolution on the dinin~ halls presented by Barney Gallagher, Dining Hall subcommittee chairman. The resolution sets uo a Student-Ad ministration Dining Hall Board "charged with 


THE OBSERVER 
Servint the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Community 
VOL. Ill, No. 79 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 19~ 
•

Mankiewicz opens sem1nar 
Last night, berore a large audience in the Library Auditorium, Frank Mankiewicz, the press secretary of the late Senator Robert F. Kennedy, inaugurated a Seminar on Robert Kennedy's 1968 campaign. He was first of a number of speakers closely affiliated with Senator Kennedy who will speak on their relations with the late senator and the senator's campaign. 
Chuck· Nau, Student Body Vice-President, opened with comments on Senator Kennedy's spring visit to Notre Dame last 
providing the sole formal liaison between the Student Body and the Director of Food Services on all matters concerning the improvement and efficiency of the operation of the Dining Halls and shall cooperate with the Director of Food Services in future planning." 
The Dining Hall Board will make monthly reports to the Student Life Council with a copy of the report going to the Student Senate. 
Five student representatives will serve on the Board, and they arc to be selected by the Student Senate. They will then serve a term starting November I st and extending to the following October 31st. 
The mern bers representing the Administration will be appointed by the President of the 
University. 
The SLC continued in its discussion of the Hall Life Report but, due to lack of time, covered only a few pages. Discussed was the role and responsibilities of hall rectors. Hopefully, parietal hours and dfinking on campus will be covered at the next meeting. 
The meeting adjourned at 
6: 15 and the Council will meet again next Monday at 4:00. 

Soph yearbook supplement refund 
It was announced yesterday 
that subscribers to the now­defunct Sophomore Yearbook S upplc ment would be reim­bursed in full as soon as the debt incur red for operational expenses is repaid. 
John Knorr, the editor-in­chief for ·the• ill-fated Supple­ment, stated in an interview yesterday that Sophomore class councilmen of the various halls would return the Supplement subscription fee of $2.25 to all subscribers as soon as possible. Due to the incurred expenses of the Supplement, plus the fact that the Sophomore class is Knorr eleborated by saying thatalready heavily debt-ridden, because of an insufficient num­Knorr was unable to specify a ber of pre-paid student sub­definite date for these refunds. 
scriptions, the Supplement was 

The original decision to cancel not able to meet the publisher's the Supplement was reached by minimum contract obligation of a joint committee composed of 700 copies. Knorr said that 
Sophomore Class President barely I00 subscriptions were Barry Doyle, Vice-President Jim sold. D'Aurora and Editor Knorr last The Supplement itself, a 
December 8 in a class council chronicle of the '68-'69 Sophomore year, planned t,..
meeting. highlight the o u tsta ndi ng In regard to the canceliation, activities of the Class of '71, Knorr commented: "The Sup­most notably, The Sophomore pIe men t was cancelled not Literary. Festival, Class because of the heavy class debt, Government functions and but basically due to a lack of Sophomore Social undertakings public demand and in tercst." such as parties and mixers. 
year, and then gave the podium not a pivotal point of Senator to Dean Lawless of the Law Kennedy's campaign. Mr. School, a personal friend of the Mankiewicz said he believed it 
Senator, who introduced Mr. was Indiana which was a pivotal Mankiewicz. point for Senator Kennedy, "a state in which he captured the 
Mankiewicz 

recollected -support and respect of rich and 

PAGE 2 'THE OBSERVER WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1969 

Chicago students pickett 
THE WORLD TODAY 

CHICAGO (UPI)-Supporters call on the demonstrators to end of a dogged sit in at the Univer­their occupation immediately. sity of Chicago ad ministration A report of a faculty building picketed yesterday to committee assigned to try to spark a class boycott. investigate the case of Mrs. Opponents of the sit in, now Marlene Dixon, whose dismissal in its 13th day, renewed their touched off the sit in, will not be available before Wednesday, the faculty and the 8,600 member student body learned Tuesday night. 
Meanwhile, the university disciplinary committee held a public hearing for two women students involved in the sit in. Unlike earlier public hearings, there was no attempt at disruption by the protesters. The committee announced no decision. 
Pickets around the social 
sciences building urged students 
to boycott social science classes 
in a show of solidarity for the 
weary and bedraggled 
occupation troops. 
Robert Crawford, a spokesman for the group pressing the boycott, said he believed class attendance in the division was down by about 50 percent. 
The university's public relations staff said its check indicated class attendance was about normal. Reporters saw few indications the boycott had much effect. 
Students who organized an anti sit in rally last week announced results of ·a drive to get signers for a petition calling on the protesters to end their occupation. 
They announced that 2,296 members of the university community, including 1,708 students, signed the petitions, which took no stand on the issues but said discussions should 
·go ahead "under more normal conditions." 
They said the signers represented almost 20 percent of the student body. 
Diamond fJmpott t!o 
THE UlTIMATE IN DIAMONDS WHOLESALE-SEEN BY APPOINTMENl PHONE 287-1427 

Hased on the .>ulitzer Prize 

I 
winning novel by B.ernard Malmu d 
"thefixer 
M~ttrocolor 

Pueblo officer testifies in private 
CORONADO, Calif. (UPI)-Chief petty officer James F. Kell says he ordered emergency destruction of secret gear in the USS Pueblo's "spook unit" because the officer over him was "nervous" and did not give the order. 
Kell, 32, Hayward, Calif., whose testimony was delivered in a closed session Monday, said he had no destruction order from his superior, Lt. Stephen Harris, 31, officer in charge of the research section on the Pueblo. 
Kell told the admirals he tried to have sensitive material thrown overboard but he said a porthole he asked Marine Sgt. Robert J. Hammond to use would not open. He also said that Communications Technician Peter M. Langenberg was wounded as he stepped through a hatch to get rid of secret material. 
The Navy said Kell emphasized he believed going onto the deck to jettison material when North Korean ships attacked the Pueblo would have been suicide and that he could not have sent a man to do what would have led to "such death." 
Kell told the court that Harris whom he called "an average 
officer-nothing outstanding and nothing bad,"-was nervous but 
not confused during the capture. Kell also was quoted as saying the 
burning of classified publications lasted IQ-15 minutes and that he 
felt destruction of equipment in the. research spaces went well. 
Beatie record cover deemed obscene 
NEWARK, N.J. (UPI) -The sale ot the Beatie record "Two Virgins" with a cover displaying front and rear nude photographs of John Lennon and his girlfriend was banned in New Jersey Monday by a judge who called the cover nothing but a "suggestive naked spectacle." 
Judge Nelson K. Mintz said he based his ruling on the testimony of an Elizabeth, N.J., record dealer who said he refused to show the album to 15 teen-aged girls because he felt they were more interested in seeing Lennon nude than hearing the album. 
Defendants in the case, Tetragrammaton of California and Bestway Productions of Mountainside, N.J., had produced a psychiatrist last week who testified the photographs showed "calm and innocence and not a look that would appeal to prurient interests." 


Teachers, students occupy Sorbonne 
PARIS (UPI) -Teachers and students occupied an assembly hall 
in the Sorbonne for SYz hours yesterday and clashed briefly with 
police early today when they emerged from the building. 
The group voted to "occupy" the hall in the ancient university, a focal point for last spring's destructive student riots, to protest the recent expulsion of other student demonstrators. They gave up the occupation early today and walked peacefully outside. 

Israeli jets bomb Jordanian troops 
JERUSALEM (UPI) ·· Israeli jet fighters attacked Jordanian troop positions in three separate incidents yesterday, killing four soldiers and wounding six others in one napalm bombing, Jordanian military spokesmen said. 
Israeli officials said Jordanian troops attacked an Israeli patrol with mortar fire south of the Dead Sea, and witnesses reported three other incidents of Jordanian Israeli fighting along the Jordan River cease fire lines yesterday. 
Except for the bombing casualties mentioned by Jordan, neither side reported losses in the second day of renewed fighting along the lsrael-J ordan border. 

Nixon improves communication gap 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -In a move to improve communications with the nation's young people, President Nixon yesterday named two White House assistants to establish liaison with youth. 
One is William B. Mullins, 31, of Pittsburgh, who was a special assistant to Sargent Shriver at the Peace Corps in 1954, and more recently headed the Office of National Affairs of Vista, the antipoverty program's community volunteer service unit. He is a Democrat. 
The other appointee is John L. Campbell, 24, of Waynesboro, Pa., who was assistant director of the "student coalition" in Nixon's presidential campaign. 
Through the campaign, Nixon pledged to set up new machinery in government to allow young people wider participation in the affairs of state. 
Press secretary Ronald Ziegler said the two new members of the youth office would deal particularly with the communications gap 
between young people and their elders. 

Leftist students want confrontation 
BERLIN (UPI) -Leftist West Berlin students yesterday promised violent demonstrations against the visit Feb. 27 of President Nixon. Moscow radio warned of further Communist moves against Western traffic into the city. 
"We will not be blocked by police," vowed the leftist dominated student parliament of the Free University. The group led riots against then Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey on his visit April 6, 1967. 
The student statement said Nixon "will leave here with another state of mind" than did John F. Kennedy after a triumphal presidential visit oto this outpost deep in Communist territory on June26, 1963. 
An aide to Nixon said the President would go through with the visit despite a new blockade of traffic into the city scheduled to begin Saturday. 


IF YDU1LL TAKE MY HAND WE'LL E:HASE YOUR DREAM AtRISS THE 5KY1 


DANCE 
CONVOCATION CENTER 


BRUNCH 
Feb. 14th, 9PM-IAM JNIVERSITY CLUB 
Feb. 15th, IIAM-12:30 PM 


CARNIVAL 
STEPAN CENTER 

CONCERT 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM Feb. 12th, 7-12PM Feb. 13th, 7-12PM 
Feb. 15th, 2 4:30 PM 

BREAKFAST 
Feb. 15th, 7-12PM 



f f f f f f f f f f 
~ ~ 
' f ~ 
f f f f f f 
! 
f f f 
f 
' ~ f 
t 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1969
PAGE 4 

Every Book Sold Entitles Student To One Chance On This 1969 Olds 442 


INCENTIVE PRIZES.. 
2 RCA 14'' Color Televisions 4 RCA 18'' B&W Televisions 2 Solid State Stereos With AM-FM Radio 

SEVERAL DISTRICTS ARE STILL WIDE OPEN 
In Order To Qualify For Incentive Prizes, Returns Must 
Be Made AtThe Raffle Booth No Later Than 
J2 Midnight, Thursday, Feb.J3th. 

PAGE 5





THE INTRUDERS 
AND THE KEN MORRIS ORCHESTRA 
NINE TIL ONE CONVOCATION CENTER CONCOURSE SEMI FORMAL GATES 1&2 
Due To Illness Jr. Walker & The AIIStars Will Not Appear 

BRUNCH/ 
SAT. FEB. IS' 10 -NOON UNIVERSIT'f CLUB $4 A COVPf..6 


B~EAKFAST! 
SUN. FEB.lb Cf -I0:30AM MORRIS' INN, MAHo<,AN!i ROOM $lf A COUPLE 
Speaker : 

Fr. Joseph Simons, C.S.C. 


THE OBSERVER WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1969
PAGE 6 
, 
~=tHH yE.S ,. ... FRET" NOT MY 

LITTLE C:HJ(KA~EF:: I t<NCW YOU~ (OUNTRY WELL 

SHI=IDE 5 OF R\-\YM E 
CAPTAIN ELE..C.TRlC 
THE RMUSE.ME.NT C..O MOUNTAIN
GAMES 
OIC.E 
POKER 
BL.A< I( J R<K RU<;51RN Rcu LE TTE •• • •• E.T(._ 
....
""" 
f' 

w'E..D 7-12.. 1' TI·H.JR. ' ~-\
7-12.




CIIWIVJIL 
f:7R.J aAN(& U' 
FEB. 12. ..... 17 ~Rr 1-12.. 
~UN 2-12. /'10 N 7-I 2.. 

UP UP aND AW~Y 


WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1969 THE OBSERVER PAGE 7 
Chris Wolfe College coeds on campus 


Don't hold your breath 

The Honor Council took a leave of absence Monday until it is given "evidence that the average Notre Dame student ... desires to retain the honor system." Don't hold your breath, anybody. 
There's no real doubt that the vast majority of students are willing not to cheat themselves. It is equally clear however that the •ast majority of students are totally unwilling to report anybody else who docs cheat, even though they sign a statement to the effect that they will each time they sign a blue book. 
The first reason is rather simple: cowardice, or more exactly, lack of moral courage. The disadvantage of reporting a cheater are the displeasure of the cheater himself, but more_ import~nt, the disapproval of the community as a whole. Such mconvemence or disadvantage seems to be enough to outweigh the less tangible benefits of "honor." 
The really basic questions though are connected with the attitude of the community as a whole. The parts of the community which do not regard cheating as dishonorable or minimize its baseness on grounds of the too-great pressure for grades are expected to ignore, or at least not enforce, this law. Why is it though that people who are perfectly willing to admit that cheating is wrong refuse to help enforce the rules against it? 
The fundamental problem is the incorrect attitude of the community toward law and its enforcement. (Stage directions at this point call for cries of "fascist" in the background.) For most people at Notre Dame law is government requiring or repressing certain actions, and enforcing it by some particular agency. The morality of disobeying the law is determined by the justice of the law itself as determined by the individual, or less elegantly, if you don't agree with a law it's OK to break it: for instance, parietal hours. The enforcement of the law is essentially the business of a group like the police, or conscientious prefects, rather than the duty of eve~y member of the community. Ergo, no one feels a personal duty to a1d in the enforcement of the laws. In fact a person who helps enforcement is regarded as either a busybody or a righteous creep. 
With attitudes like that there just ain't no way to expect an honor system to work. There are other implications, though. Some people would like to eliminate prefects and have students enforce rules in the hall. But in that case too it is probable that people will generally obey the rules, and generally refuse to enforce them. 
Maybe the most important implication is seen in a more or less (~emin~y) ~s~nfficant po~t. If it~ true that peo~e will uphold fully the honor system, why do they vote for it? If they will "tolerate dishonesty" in their fellow students, why do they put their name under the honor code pledge on the front of exam booklets? The answer is that students act out these inconsistencies without thinking about them. They simply ignore the fact that they say or write one thing, a pledge of honor, and then do another thing. With the action of the Ilonor Council though, they can no longer ignore the inconsistency. Or can they? Don't hold your breath. 
RUN YOUR OWN AD FOR VALENTINE'S DAY 
Say hello to her through the news media Only $1.00 for three lines 
example: 
llappy Valentine's Day, Bonnie Love, Clyde 
Sales Wed. night 5-6 PM in the Dining Halls 
NEEDED: FOR THIS YEAR'S AN TOSTAL/MAY 8,9,101 
Pictures from last year 
Workers for this year Call 6946 or 6935 
~-----·-·--~~-~~--~~~-~~~-----j 
Open Bowling 
Weekends and Monday nights SPECIAL: $1.15 for three games on any afternoon Monday through Saturday 
Pocket biUiards available 

Craftsmen in Optics 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSf;S THE SHERLAND BLDG.--132 S. MICHIGAN ST.--CEntra12-1461 

Miiii:I.Offlce: 135 N. Wabash Ave.--Chicaqo 
Notre Dame was visited yes­terday afternoon by three stu­dents from Bennington College, a small all-girls college in Ver­mont. The three girls, seniors 
Carole Bolsey and Christine 
Graham, and junior Becky 
Mitchell are currently on a two-
month tour of American college 

campuses, during which they 
hope to visit 22 different 
schools. Their purpose is to find 
out what is going on among the 
students at the colleges they 
visit, and to gather and exchange 
the various ideas they encounter. 
The three pretty co-eds then 

explained how a Chicago-type 
demonstration could not take 
place at Bennington because the Bennington College students, faculty, and administration all work together to run the school. The students at Bennington have a hand in the hiring and firing of teachers. The students interview prospective teachers and con­stantly comment on and eval­uate the performance of veteran teachers. 
The courses at Bennington are also student-oriented. There is an eight-to-one student-faculty ratio which results in small classes. All courses are in scm­inar form and no grades are ever given. Instead, the teachers comment on and evaluate the performances of their students. There are no required courses at Bennington. The students per­sonally tailor their course of studies to suit their own needs and desires. A large number of Bennington students are then able to attend prestigious grad­uate schools. 
At Bennington there is no supervision of the students by the administration. In addition, the administration does not take on the job of aiding in law enforcement. A Bennington student takes on full respon­sibility in her relations with the Law. 
In the dialogue that followed, the three co-eds acknowleged that the system employed at Bennington might not work at Notre Dame since Notre Dame is about fifteen times the size of Bennington. They also conceded that certain academic pursuits, such as science and engineering, probably would not fit into a Bennington-type system. 
They said, however, that cer­the students are willing to take the responsibility. 
In a short interview after the discussion session, the three Bennington girls commented on their impression of Notre Dame. They remarked that the students seem very cynical and depressed in regard to the school, and that this despair and depression cause them to aviod the main issues at Notre Dame. In addition, the co-eds commented that the Notre Dame student appears to be without a leader. The Bennington students said that the coupling of these two factors has produced a Notre Dame student who does not seem to care, even though he is depressed, and who takes no responsibility, seeming not to 
want any. 

I I 
DINE PiZZA IN OR CARRY OUT
I Limit one to a customer Coupon must be Presented Olfijf exjlires Thur. feb. 13 Good Mon, Tue., WP.d., ThMr. 

SPECIAL 
CLIP COUPON AND SAVE 50¢ ON A DELICIOUS PIZZA HUT PIZZA! 
Shulas 31 Bowl 2732 S. 11th St. Rd. Niles, Michigan app. 3 miles from cam~ pus next to Shulas night club 




HALF PRICE 
Coming: N. D. Beer Night Every Monday 6:00 to I :00 
Beer $1.00 pitcher Pop 10 cents 

PIZZA HUT # 2. 
2307 E. EDISON PHONE 233-3827 
(Close toN. D. Campus) 

PAGE 8 THE OBSERlJER WEDNESDAY,FEBRUARY 12,1969 
Notre Dame Employs Austin But 
The Fighting Irish had Austin The Spartans brought much Carr again, but very little else as more than a 7-8 record into the they fell to the Spartans of Convo Center. They carried Michigan State 71-59 last night. along a ferocious man-to-man The loss put a cramp in Notre defense which prevented Notre Dame's run on the NCAA Dame from even approaching Tournament, dumping the Irish the basket in the opening record to 15-5. moments. Dwight Murphy had 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 


Sports Parade 
By Milt Richman, UPI columnist 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
NEW YORK (UPI) -Sugar Ray Robinson was home listening to the late news when he heard about it. "Oh my God, he was such a fine fellow," Robinson said to his wife, Millie. "He was one of the finest fellows I ever fought." 
The news item which prompted Sugar Ray's remark concerned the death of former welterweight champion Marty Servo. Marty was only 49 but cancer has never been much of a respecter of age. 
Little Marty Servo, born Mario Severino in Schenectady, won 49 of his 56 fights as a professional and curiously, the two for which he was best remembered-both were losses. 
Not so curiously, those two setbacks were at the hands of Robinson-but that's jumping ahead of the story. 
Servo first began making a name for himself as an amateur. He won 91 of 95 bouts battling solely for medals and diamo nd belts and it was only natural one of his relatives started thinking of him in terms of a possible professional. 
The relative was Lou Ambers, who lived in Herkimer, not far from Schenectady. Ambers had been guided to the lightweight title by a canny, chubby manager named AI Weill so it was only natural also that Ambers should recommend him to Servo. 
Weill was a skillful man. In his time he was to steer four different fighters to world championships. Rocky Marciano was one. Mario Severino was another although one of the first things Weill did was 
Zip, zip, zip, just like that, 19 year old Marty Servo began knocking over opponents as a professional. He was fast, punched well with both hands and owned the kind of quiet, pleasant personality boxing fans instinctively liked. He had 45 straight fights without a loss before he dropped a I 0 round decision to Robinson in 1941. Sugar Ray beat him again 10 months later. 
"Marty Servo was the same type fighter as Carmen Basilio," says Teddy Brenner, the Madison Square Garden match maker with the remarkable mental catalogingsystem covering all fighters of the past 30 years. "There was only one trouble with him. He did most of his boxing during the depression when there was no money around. He never had a TV fight. He was a victim of circumstances." 
Following his second defeat by Robinson, Servo enlisted in the Coast Guard. He remained in the service until late in 1945 and when he came out Weill got him a shot at the welterweight crown worn then by Freddie Cochrane. 
To get the fight, Weill had to guarantee Cochrane $50,000. Servo flattened Cochrane in four rounds and his purse for winning the title came to $36,000. He turned it all over to Cochrane and still owed the ex-champ $14,000 more. So he actually got nothing for winning the championship. 
In order to get the additional $14,000 to pay Cochrane, Servo agreed to an almost immediate non title bout with Rocky Graziano who, at the time, was tougher, fiercer and meaner than Bonnie and Clyde ever were put together. 
Many people felt Servo was making a mistake taking the fight with Graziano but he was bent on paying off Cochrane. So two months after winning the welterweight title, Servo took on Graziano and was knocked out in two rounds. 
For his fight with Graziano, Servo received $38,000 of which $14,000 went to Cochrane. Still, Servo ended up with his biggest purse ever, about $18,000. He also ended up with a broken nose. 
Graziano had hit Servo so hard he had broken the bridge of his 
nose. After examining the damage, doctors told Servo there was a piece of bone that could enter his brain if it was hit again. They advised him to quit fighting. 
Six months after his fight with Graziano, Servo announced his 
retirement  although  he  still  held  the  welterweight  title.  Shortly  
thereafter,  Robinson  won  the  vacated  crown  by  out  pointing  
Tommy Bell.  

By now Marty Servo was 27. He still needed money. Nearly a year after his retirement he began thinking maybe he could fight again. Maybe he could even win back the title. 
His first warm up went fine, Servo kayoing his man in two rounds. His next warm up was a disaster. Joe DiMartino stiffened him in the first round at Bridgeport, Conn., and it was to be Marty's last fight. 
Not long afterward Weill got Servo a job. As an $85 dollar a week bartender on Broadway. From there he moved on to become an automobile salesman and later a foreman in a Colorado Steel Mill. During recent years three tumors were removed from his lungs and hospital expenses ate into whatever little savings he had put aside. 
Marty Servo had a wife and three children. He died practically penniless. He was a victim of circumstances. 
to convert a steal into NO's first bucket at 17:26. He was the only Irishman hitting early in the game. 
Carr entered the contest at 

6:37 and managed a free throw. It was his first appearance since the Dec. 30 game against American University. While he was in, the Irish stretched to a five-point lead. Tom Lick cut the MSU deficit to three at the half. ND's 28-25 advantage was due partly to Bob Whitmore's 
Wrestlers 
The Irish wrestling squad suffered their second defeat of the season yesterday afternoon at the Athletic and Convocation Center at the hands of Western Michigan University. 
The men from Kalamazoo dominated the match as they decisioned 7 of 9 events. There 
were  no  pins  in  the  21-6  
lathering  of  Tom  Fallon's  
grapplers.  

The two bright spots in an otherwise bleak scorecard were registered by Mike Higgins and Bill Hasbrook. Higgins decisioned his opponent in the !52 lb. class by a score of 3-2. Hasbrook beat his man 6-5 in the 177 division. 
This was the second meet that injured co-captain Jim Hansen has missed. To add to their woes Ken Ryan also missed the meet with WMU. This caused a considerable amount of shuffling in the lineup. 
This loss pulls the ND record down to 7-2-1 for this season. The next meet will occur this weekend when the Irish try to get back on the winning track in the Wheaton Invitational at Wheaton, Ill. 
123 lbs.-Gary Hetherington (WM) decisioned Tom Ciaccio (NO) 12-4 130 lbs.-Jim Kolidica (WM) decis­ioned Kieth Giron (ND) 10-7 137 lbs.-Rich Bacon (WM) decisioned John Maas (NO) 11·2 145 lbs.-Dan Bufford (WM) decis­ioned Mike Duell (NO) 10-2 152 lbs.-Mike Higgins (NO) decis­ioned Dennis Bufford (WM) 3·2 160 lbs.-Ron Becker (WM) decis­ioned Tom Powell (ND) 11-1 167 lbs.-Tom Dyer (WM) decisioned Greg Abrams (NO) 5-0 1771bs.-Bill Hasbrook (NO) decis­ioned Tom lehman (WM) 6·5 HEAVY-Mark Yunker (WM) decis­ioned Pat Mudron ( N D) 5·2 
FINAL SCORE: WM 21 NO 6 
Riflery 

Notre Dame placed second in a triangular rifle meet over the weekend. The Irish scored I 203 points out of a possible 1500, placing behind Howe's 1256 and ahead of Culver's 1165. Individual Notre Dame scores were: Frank Liebner 250; Jim Pratt 245; Tom Ersfeld 244; Tom Kearns 240; and Vince Roway 224. 

Track 

Jim and Steve Rycyna, who competed on the Notre Dame cross-country team this fall, returned home to Lockport, New York last weekend for the Lockport Track Club's Polar Bear Race. The brothers tied for first place in the meet, held over a 3.5 mile course. Each contestant had to predict his own time before the race. The Rycynas won the event by coming in only four seconds off their predictions, five seconds ahead of their nearest oooonent. 
nine points and partly to the fact that MSU shot even worse from the field than did the Irish (32%-33%). 
Bernie Copeland and Lee Lafayette got the Spartans rolling with an outside-inside scoring binge at the start of the second half. Lafayette, 6'-6" center and leading scorer, canned two flude drives to give the visitors a 42-38 lead at 
12:28. Then Copeland swished two long corner set shots and the game was out of reach 4 7-40 at 10:57. 
Carr and Whitmore were the leading Irish scorers in the second half with eight points apiece. Austin ended up only 4-14, but gave evidence that he is ready for full-time action on Saturday. 
Notre Dame's poor shooting prevented any sort of a comeback. The Irish did manage to whittle an 11-point margin 
MICHIGAN STATE 
PLAYER  FG  FT  RB  TP  
Gibbons  2-6  3-5  4  7  
Copeland  7-14  1-2  10  15  
Lafayette  7-15  5·5  16  19  
Ward  3-6  2-3  3  8  
Bograkos  4-13  2-2  1  10  
Stepter  4-7  0-1  4  8  
Lick  1-5  0-0  8  2  
Hoims  0-0  0-0  1  0  
~~  ~1  ~0  2  0  
Sizemore  0-1  0-0  1  0  
Kirk patrick  0-0  2-2  0  2  
Binge  0-0  0-0  1  0  
TOTALS  28-69 15-20 57  71  

down to seven at 6:30. After Murphy drew an offensive foul from Harrison Stepter, however, Carr missed on a drive and the chance was gone. 
Final percentages tell the story as well as anything else. The Spartans improved considerably, up to 41%, while ND dropped to 32%..Bob Arnzen had perhaps his worst night of the season, hitting only 4-15. MSU dominated the boards 57-45, but committed more turnovers. 
Whitmore headed the Irish with 17 points, the only one in double figures. Murphy and Carr had nine, and Mike O'Connell added seven. Lafayette hit his average, 19 points, while the sharp-shooting Copeland had 15. 
Things didn't go well with the ND frosh either. The Warriors from Marquette eked out a 58-57 victory in a preliminary affair. 
NOTRE DAME 
PLAYER  FG  FT  RB  TP  
Arnzen  4-15  0-1  11  8  
Whitmore  5-10  7-9  7  17  
Catlett  3-13  0-0  12  6  
Murphy  4-7  1-3  2  9  
Meehan  1-4  1-1  3  3  
Carr  4-14  1-1  3  9  
O'Connell  1-2  5-9  1  7  
Sinnott  0-0  ~0  0  0  
Jones  0-3  0-1  2  0  
TOTALS  22-68 15-25 45  59  
NOTRE DAME  STATE  
FG  32%  41%  
FT  60".4  75%  



Mike O'Connell returned to the Notre Dame line-up last night after a two-game absence and scored seven points. 









