
-------=------­
VO.b...!!l. No. 75 Serving the Notre Dame and St. Mary) College Community FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 7, 1969 
--~--~--------~ 
Everything was going great until yesterday afternoon ... 
See page 2: 
( OIJSER VER photos hy John Wehrheim) 

Meanwhile, the art lovers waited 


See OBSERVER INSIGHT, page 9: 



However, for the connoisseur 
Finally the show went on 


And 

then, last night 

See page 7: 


PAGE2 'THE OBSERVER FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1969 


Art show, film cancellation brings legal •ISSUeS 
The Student Union announ­ccd late last night that all show­l.ngs of f1·1 s and the art show of
111 
the Censorshl·p and pornography conference had been cancelled. The announcement followed in the Wake Of the abrupt halt by
Student Union officials of two -b · h t th C t
f11ms emg s own a e en er 
· · Ed t"
for Contmumg uca ton yes­
terday afternoon. Bill Wade, Student Union y· p "d t · t
Icc-rcs1 en , m a sta ement to
th t · ht .d "W ,
c press 1as mg sa1 , e ve 
decided to cancel the films and the art show of the Pornography 
h. f , 
and Censors 1p con erence. 
This decision was made by Student Unt"on Prest"dent rl"ck Rembusch. All Student Unl·on 
officers concurred. The intent of 
the conference was to study 
pornography and what makes it 
pornographic. Our intent was 
good · · · 
"A mistake was made today
during the showing of the films. 
One of the films was in a can not 
marked correctly, it was not 
supposed to be shown, and when . Student Union Academic Commissioner, said that further showings of the films could in­volvc University officials, Stu­dent Government Officials, and themselves in possible violations 

of civil anti-pornography laws. Mroz said that the decision to end the showings was made after an afternoon of consultation 

Trouble arose early yesterday as the opening of the Art Ex­hibit was delayed by Student Union Officials. At the time they said that they had decided to delay the opening of the 
exhibit because there was some question over whether som~: of art work violated St. Joseph County criminal statutes. 
•---------------------------· 
WYGANT'S FLORAL Sf-lOP 
FOR That special corsage on Mardi Gras Valentine Day Flowers-Feb.l4 
Place order early for maximum selection FTD florist Phone 232-3354 
we were informed it was being
shown it was cut." 
"We have had adverse reac­tions from people outside the University, but these are pri­marily a misunderstanding . . . To show the films now would do more harm than good. Any further showings would detract from the conference and its purpose. It would be looked on as a show which was not the plan." 
At a press conference last night Wade and John Mroz, with University lawyers. 
After thorough examination of Indiana and St. Joseph County statutes it was suggested to the Student Union to stop showings to avoid a possible violation of the law. Student Union officials also said that there was public pressure from outside the University to stop the showings. They also said that the decision was made to avoid the adverse publicity which would detract from the purpose of the conference. 

Rossie plans work with L.egal Aid' 
Student Body President announced his intention to work headed by his Judicial Coordi­
..___________________________... 

Kids choke on polluted air. Streets are jammed by cars with no place to go. Lakes and rivers are a common dumping ground for all kinds of debris. 
This is the way the world is, but it's not the way it has to be. 
Air pollution can be controlled. Better transpor­tation systems can be devised. There can be an almost unlimited supply of clean water. 
People at General Electric are already working on these problems. And on other problems that need to be solved. Problems like developing more efficient ways of providing power to our cities and figuring out ways our production capabilities can keep up with our population. needs. 
But we need more people. 

We need help from a lot of young engineers and scientists; and we need help from business and liberal arts graduates who understand people and their problems. 
Ifyou want to help change the world, we'd like to talk to you. We'll be visiting campus soon. Why not drop by the placement office and arrange for an interview? You might be able to turn a problem into an opportunity. 
Poet Allen Ginsberg when

questioned about the delay in the opening at a conference session suggested that one way to have the exhibit put on would be to stage a sit-in until it was opened. After the Ginsberg speech about 350 students pro­ceeded to La Fortune Student Center where a sit-in was launched. 
SBP Richard Rossie, Mroz, and other SUAC officials then decided to open the conference continued to page 11 
R-ic.·h-a.rd--R•o•s•s•i•e_y_e•s•te•r•d•a•y-•w-it•h•in-t•h•e-L.eg•a•l•A-id-C•o•m•m-it•t•e•e..nator, Dave Kellv. 
Since the Legal Aid Com­mittee under fired Judicial Coordinator Bob Rigney also announced its plans to continue operating outside Student Gov­ernment, this leaves the school with two soperate Legal Aid Committees. 
Rossie said: "The Student Senate established the Legal Aid Committee under the juris­diction of the Judicial Coor­dinator, who is a member of my cabinet. I will continue to 
operate under that principle. If Rigney's committee continues to operate, I will consider it a grou­of students giving legal aid. 
Rigney noted that, under the procedures of the Judicial Board, any undergraduate stu­dent can give legal aid. He said that his committee is continuing to work on the Marty McNamara case, and that it would then conduct a training school in defense. 
When asked about the pos­sibility of being bypassed by defendants, Rigney said, '''We hope to establish our com­petence through the McNamara Case. My opinion is that we are very competent." 


"THE FUNNIEST PICTURE I HAVE SEEN IN AGES!" 
-Ne\N Yorker 
20th Century-Fox preserts 

~'bedazzled" 
PANAVISION" Color by Deluxe 
Featuri~: 

GENERAL. ELECTRIC 

An equal opportunity employer 
during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dam nd. 46556 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1969 'liiF. OBSERVER PAGE 3 


MONDAY. FEB.IO, 7-11/'JL• t;t:NT~I2 I=VI2 CONTINUIN~ IJ)LJCATION: Tl-ll2bb: J:"ILM~ ON f2~~. INtLUDiNt;. TUb MhWI2JAL I=ILM ~OM 11-lb.. 1968 Db:MOtJ2ATI& Ca.Nb:NTJON 
TUk.5DAY, J=""EB.ll, Bpfi.. LIB2AI2Y AI.DIT0i21UM: ~QANk:: MANkdb:'w'J{,Z, Ja:NNt:DY? PJ26:?? ?b:Cl2b:TAI2Y, WILL ~b.YNOTb TW6: ~b:MINAI2 
\J[DN(JDAt FEB.IZ. 4PI"·· UB~Y AUDITOi21UM: CJ-IAI2LI:~ b.V6J2-), DU2b:l.TOI2 of MI??I??JPPJ NAUP, "~bJl..JbDY and +hs BLACic:::MAN: Bpr·t DAVID WALB6.12.,T.Atv1, J;:DIT02 of WAQP6J2? aHd PULITZ~J2 PI21Z~ -\v'INN6:12 .. \JILL ?PUlL ON WI? Nb.'vv' BOO~, 
~TWt; UNJ:lNI?Wb:D ODY~~~y 0~ 121=~ If 



TWUJ2?DAV. FEB.J5, BpJI-·
{;tNT~ ~012 tO~* ~D. : 
/J{JAWt W'ALIN?~Y, J2~~·~ ~Pb:b:Cl-J 'w'I21Tb:l2, 'w'ILL ?P~~ ON ~b:NNb.Y.? 
C.AMPAit;N J:OT2 ;octAL 
f21:~012M, 
-
PAGE 4 711£ OBJFRVER FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1969 
Student petition blasts .conferencefilms . 
A petitiOn was started last sentea t>y the Student Union father Hesburgh s office where your basic commumty standards petitiOn had started to circulate night protesting the showing of Academic Commission in the they .~ompl:.ined that the play are not iiHot." said that the pet~ti<:m will be Flaming Creatures and the pre-name of the students of the was gross. _Father _Hesburgh La Salvia said the petition will presen!ed at the _sit-m at _noon sentation of Lady Godiva. Bob .Notre Dame community, se-answe~ed thmr ~uenes about be circulated this morning and and will be tak~n_mto considera-La Salvia, a junior, as the official cond, Student Union funds were any~hmg they m1ght do to ef-presented at the mass sit-in in tion when dec,Idm~ whether or spokesman for the group of stu-used to ad~ertise t~ese events. fet~tivelyf hp~otlest thdethprehsent-the student center at noon. He not t~ screen Flafr:zmlgdC~~a_tures. 
dents that ori·g1·nated the pe-La Salvia explamed that the a Jon o t e P ay an e s ow-He said that the m_a ecJswn to
further explained that he had 
tition, said the action was in-action to circulate the petition_ ing of Flaming Creatures by say-talked with Dave Kahn, who has or n~t to show will be reached_ stituted for two reasons First began after they had viewed ing "ltisyourcommunityandit guaranteed that Flaming based on the consensus ot 








the events in question w~re pre: Lady Godiva. They proceeded to is up. to you to disagree when Creatures will be shown this opinion reached by the people at 
consensus may be. took him up on Kahn's challenge that if "you disagree with me 
r---------------------------------------­noon, and argued with him and the sit-in, no matter what that 

They said it couldn't be done. 
A complete text of the petition follows: 

then I want to see support for 
your disagreement."
Last spring few people thought that THE 
Kahn, after learning that a
OBSERVER could become a daily publication. They said it couldn't be done. But we proved them wrong. 
We, the undersigned,_ oppose the use of Student Union Academic Commission funds to present material that has been ruled "hard-core
THE OBSERVER has come a long way in a short 
pornography" by the United States Supreme Court and which has been 
opposed by the Student Life Council. What students view or present in their 
own name is their own business, but when an event is sponsored in the name 
space of time, but it has a long way to go. The 
potential is aU around us. That potential is you! 
of the Notre Dame Student Union Academic Commission and paid for b~• Student Union funds, it must meet basic community standards. We condemn John Mroz for presenting such questionable material in our name and with our 
We need people to put out a paper. So we're 
offering all undergraduates a chance to pick up the 
funds without seeking the advice of such broad-based, representative
nuts and bolts of the newspaper business. We're 
committees as the SLC or the Student Senate solely for the purpose o1f 
"students doing their own thing" at the expense of the good name of Notre Dame University. 
running a workshop next week that will cover the 
operation and organization of THE OBSERVER and 
We urge that a definite response be taken by the University community,
also reporting techniques. 
especially through the SLC, the Student Senate, and the Faculty Senate, to prevent such unrepresentative actions by students in the name of our
PO Box 11 Notre Dame, Ind. or call 283 -8661 
community. 
Have your day 


Prof edits 

in the 
Dr. J. Philip Gleason, ass­

,;:;,:~!!!·:··;; ·;.'.,:.·.i, .... -butcher's market. 
ociate professor of history, has edited Contemporary


Then cfi~ck;;ith the man from LTV Aerospace. 
Catholicism in the United States, 
a volume of 14 essays dealing with various aspects of the life of the Church in the United States which will be published next month by the University of Notre Dame Press. 
"The fact of change is not new in American Catholicism," Gleason writes in his intro­duction. "From the earliest days of our national life the Church has found itself in novel circum­stances to which it has had to make adjustments. But in the past ten years the pace of change has accelerated so rapidly, and its scope broadened to include so many facets of Catholic life, that the consciousness of change has been forced upon allthe 

L
... 
members of the Church." 
The book's chapters cover such subjects as ecumenism, the Church and the Negro, the American Catholic family, seminary studies, Catholic edu­cation, the Catholic layman, and communications and the Church. 
In addition to Gleason, other Notre Dame contributors in­clude Dr. Richard A. Lamanna,

As a man, you've got ideas and ambitions to total work force is exceptionally 
associate professor of sociology;

and values that won't show up on anybody's high. Which adds up to a pretty good 
the Rev. Aidan Kavanagh, 

version of the butcher's chart. You know it spot for you to be in -as an engineer, 
O.S.B., director of the graduate program in liturgy; the Rev.

and we know it. and as a man. Louis J. Putz, "C. S.C., superior of
As an engineer, you want something So_,_after you've beer; weighed and 
Moreau Seminary; Dr. Robert L. more than your daily bread. And we know measured, inspected and all but dis­
Hassenger, director of the Office for Educational Research; Prof. ThomasJ. Stritch, chairman of 

that, too. sected -try to stay in one piece won't 
At LTV Aerospace Corporation, we you? We'd like to talk to the whole man. 
the department of communica­

have something pretty special to offer 

tions arts; Jay J. Coakley, a 
you -as a man, as an engineer. CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
doctoral candidate in sociology; and Maureen L. Gleason, former

We've got scope. Engineering scope 
social sciences reference librarian 

THURSDAY
that can take you from the bottom of 
at Notre Dame.

FEBRUARY 20
the ocean to the outer reaches of space. Opportunity scope that extends 
Dance 

to the top levels of management. Schedule an interview with our representa­
Captain Electric

Figure it out. LTV Aerospace is one tive or write: College Relations Office, of the fastest growing companies in LTV Aerospace Corporation, P.O. 
Fri. Feb. 7 

America, and what we grow on is engi­Box 5907, Dallas, Texas 75222. 
9-·12 $2.00

neering strength. Our ratio of engineers An equal opportunity employer. 
Edison Light 
Edi~on & Ironwood

LTV AEFlOSPACE COFlPOFlATIOIV 
1 mile E. of Notre Dame

A qual!ty company of Ling-Temco-Vought. Inc. L."'"'V 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1969 THE OBSERVER PAGE 5 




McNamara trial slated sunday before board 
Marty McNamara's right to of the trial on both McNamara the accused." McNamara was passed around the notice of his 
transfer. He believed that 
a trial as guaranteed by the and himself. lie said he failed to not consulted in the transaction violation and his copy of the 
McNamara waived his rights at
judicial code will be exercised impress upon McNamara the fact and was informed afterwards by investigation report. By these
the open hearing that he had
this Sunday. McNamara was that the proceedings would not Ryan. actions, he decided that
requested. At this hearing he
named defendant in a suit parallel those of a civil court and 0 ave Ryan said . "the McNamara had waived his rights. 
brought by Bob Narucki charging him with the infringement of rights by unlawful demonstration in connection with the lie-in against CIA recruiting on campus last November 20. At his first session of his trial on January 14, McNamara won a postponement until today for his trial to go before the Judicial Board. Of the seven grounds for postponement brought forth then, at least the majority of them claimed the oppression of his right as a defendant. 
These charges were answered by Dave Ryan, chairman of the Judicial Board, who insisted that his Board had acted properly in all phases of its investigation and that there had been no infringement of anyone's rights. lie blamed the confusion held by McNamara about the conduct coupled with McNamara's light 
treating of the whole affair 
caused the problems that arose. 

McNamara's rights as a defendant have again been claimed to be violated. There is a threat that he will be prosecuted by evidence that is claimed to be illegally obtained. Dave Ryan, chairman of the Judicial Board, is claimed to have violated McNamara's rights by delivering to the Dean of Students at St. 
Mary's, Sister M. Immaculata, esc, a copy of the investigation report consisting, in part, of McNamara's involvement in the demonstration. This is thought to be a direct violation of point 16 of the judicial code's section· on student rights which states that a student has "the right to 
secrecy in all matters related to the judicial process unless waived in writing or actions by 





"What did you say your name was?" 
1~'\



"'<: \\
' / .L\_ 
t~ll~ ~ \~~ "\:_~v 


\~~\~ 
There must be a safer way to me~~ 

~ 

girls. Luckily for you, we put instruc­tions on self-defense in every package of Hai Karate!!> After Shave and Cologne. But even so, please be a little 
I iii

careful how you use it. A good social life is fine, but the way you're going you'll be too battered to enjoy it. 
Hai Karate-becarefulhow youuse it. ~ 
©l'J6C) L····mtnt~ Oi•1., Ch1s. Pftz•·r & Co., Inc., N.Y., N.Y. 10017 
investigative report can not be Pt!ll--~!!1!11--------·----------... 
used as evidence. It is common procedure for the excahging of information. It gives the Dean of Students an idea of what is going on and helps him gather all the information." Ryan said that he did not write the report but only served as a messenger boy. This task could have been done by any number of persons. He said that he had the only other copy except for those of McNamara's and the Judicial board and that he did it to try to insure fairness on both sides. He mentioned 
A co-educational summer program designed for the involved individual.
that he does not know whether 
Sailing, Scuba Diving, Surfing, Beach Parties, and Outer Island Safaris.
the Judicial Board will even hear 
Interested? Fill in the blanks below and mail to-
the case. 
Diamond Head Summer Institute 
He explained the supposed 

P.O. Box 9492 Honolulu, Hawaii 96820
violation of the judicial code by claiming that McNamara waived 
Name
his rights to secrecy by his actions and therefore did not 
Address 
have to be consulted about the 


Chicago Symphony Orchestra 
Conducted by Irwin Hoffman 
sponsored by 

Contemporary Arts Festival 
tour triumphs ... 
"This is what it's all about. A great orchestra, a great conductor, and the greatest music ever written ... the Chicago Symphony countenance is of astonishing beauty and variety." 
Columbus Citizen Journal, Nov. 10, 1967 
" ... The orchestra performed so superbly ... a night of old and new music that on the performance scale rated all the stars it is possible to give." 
Donald 1/enahan, New York Times, Nov. 13, 1967 Program: 
1) Firebird Suite-Stravinsky 
2) Piano Concerto-Corigliano (Chicago Symphony Premiere) 
3) Symphony No. 5-Prokofieff 
Tickets may be purchased at: Box Office of AC center, dining halls (Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday during dinner hour), hall representatives 
and Gilbert's. Also at the door or Convocation 
Center Box Office. 
FRIDAY, FEB. 7••• 8:00P.M. 
Notre Dame Athletic & Convocation Center Ticket Prices: Adults $5.00, $3.50, & $2.50 Ctudents $3.50, $2.50, & $2.00 
PLAY A MUSICAL INSTRUMENn VIOLIN? TRUMPEn FLUTE? DRUMS? 
Sign up for Collegium Musicum (St. Mary's excuse for an Orchestra) 
with or without credit Meets Sunday Evenings 7:30 to 9:00 Franklin Miller, maestro 
PAGE 6 THE OBSERVER 


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
WILLIAM LUKING, Editor-in-Chief 
Mary Michael Farnum, Senior Editor Paul Schroeder, Executive Editor Don Holliday, Managing Editor 
Betty Doerr, Chris Wolfe, Michael Patrick O'Connor, Don Hynes, Tom Ehrbar, Bill Mitchell, Tim O'Mella, Guy DeSaplo Associate Editors Ted Price, News Editor David Stauffer, Copy Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Inappropriate 
More than an issue of pornography or art, the events of yesterday bring into question the reality of student responsibility maturity. And if Student Power is defined as the student's ability and right to run his own affairs maturely and responsibily then the entire proposition of student self-government has been threatened. 
The issue of pornography is not central here although it is important. No one will deny that a pornography and censorship conference is a worthwhile and academically valuable venture. Such a conference was held last year in the Center for C<;>ntinuing Education and was carried off in good taste with valuable benefits derived from it by the participants. 
The planning and organization of a conference discussing pornography must be extremely careful because of the nature of its content. This university, or any university, cannot afford to become embroiled in a controversy for showing smut as education. 
The reasons given for discontinuing the art show and the film screenings were based on legal problems. Academic Commissioner John Mroz and other members of the Student Union had agreed Wednesday night not to screen Flaming Creatures, which has been ruled as pornography by the Supreme Court. Parts of the film were screened however, whether mistakenly or not, before SUAC officials became aware of it and halted the movie. 
Mroz and his commission made a very poor choice when they selected pornography and censorship the topic of a major conference. SUAC lacks the resources in taste and depth to preside over a conference which could have treated a topic as delicate and as prone to sensationalism as pornography. The Notre Dame student body lacks the taste and background to respond to discussions of such a topic in an intellectual manner. 
One real problem is that the Academic Commission became a promoter of an art exhibit and movicw it neither understood nor was prepared to support on artistic grounds when encountered with criticism and possible censorship. 
Neither did SUAC realize the implications such a conference has on an academic community. The very purpose of a university is defeated when delicate subjects arc brutally handled. No university can afford to lend its name to an ill-prepared pornography conference which becomes a voyeur's delight. 
Perhaps the spureme example of the seriousness with which the Academic Commission gave the conference is the fact that the first time any member of the commission viewed the films or the art exhibit was when they were unveiled to the public. Quite simply they did not realize what they were hiring. Such performances cannot be condoned and injure the very fiber of student responsibility. 
Plainly Mroz's commission had no inkling of the value or import of the subjects with which they were dealiqg. The Pornography and Censorship Conference comes off as no more than a provocative title which will draw crowds, knowledgable or not, to an ill-conceived attempt at academic investigation. 
Tim O'Mellla 

Letters 
Dear Ted, 
You just wouldnt bcliev what's been going on here the past few days. The Student Union had this Pornography and Censorship Conference over the weekend. And baby my eyes are still bugging 
out. 
I'd bet my next season's football ticket that more kids went to those events than any in the history of this joint. And they had some beautiful hassles over the whole thing too. The first night they had Allen Ginsberg, the guy that writes a lot of dirty poetry. That place was packed. He and this other chat chanted the same sentence over and over again for about a half hour like they were having trouble memorizing it or something. He looks like that whacked out english prof Michelson, only he's got a beard. He came out wearing this Notre Dame sweatshirt and I knew he was putting everybody on. He didn't take his clothes off like he did once though. 
Anyway he read this stream of consciousness stuff ad everybody applauded and I know damn well they didn't understand any more of it than me. 
the next day they had this art exhibit in the Student Center and somebody didn't want to open it because it was pornography so when they finally let us in I looked at it and it was. Me and about I0,000 other guys looked at that junk and I couldn't see any art in it but then I've never been in an art gallery in my life except once to go to the john. I know these guys don't know anything about art, but they know what they like. They like dirty pictures. Some of them I didn't get a good look at because they were on tables and the guy in front of me kept slobbering on them. 
I ate dinner fast because I wanted to get in line for the play, "Lady Godiva.""' was there at 6:30 but I still got in. Three nuns sat two rows in front of me and they got an eyeful. I got to admit, though, the play was faithful to the story but even I was grossed out by some of the stuff they added and I haven't missed a pep rally or engineering auditorium movie in three years. This girl sat next to me during the play and she kept making these funny squeaking noises when everybody was laughing at the play. She finally left and I put my coat on her seat. 
But the best part of the whole deal was the movies in the afternoon in the engineering auditorium. They showed parts of two movies. The first one didn't have much plot but the conematography was great. The second one was supposed to be condemned by the Supreme Court and they weren't supposed to show il but we got to sec part of it before they turned it off. This one didn't have a plot either and it was in black and white. The kid next to me said he saw the whole thing once in New York and that we didn't even get to the good part *Hell I saw more flaming creatures bitching about the show after it than during. I can't wait till the Fugs concert Saturday 
night. ' Yours in Christ and Notre Dame, John 
P.S. Maybe there's something to be said for a catholic education after all. The joke's on my mother, little did she know ... 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1969 PAGE7
'THE OBSERVER 


L.ady Godiva Comes in a Quaker Oats Box 


Formal disclaimer 
John Vaccaro said before his production of l.adv 
(,'odiva began "We're all here for some good dirty fun." The director's intention was fulfilled. There arc . no further criticisms on the play as such; only a few comments on the play as part of the continuing story 
of Notre Dame U. 
Quote 
Ladies and gentlemen of every genus: When I was a 
kid my Daddy used to say, ''I'll explain it to ya when 
ya gel older." Now in order that daddies no longer 
have to explain anythin' to their kids, we arc 
prcscnlin' dis play. Dis here play don't leave nothin' 
to the imagination. After all, most people ain't got 
any. 
Ron Tavel's (,'orilla Queen Comment 
In a sense the Notre Dame production of l.ady 
Godiva is the most perfect one; the set piece 
"Morning Horniness" could never be sung anywhere 
else with so much feeling. The audience truly felt the 
emotions of the actors. Probably like the actors never 
knew. Peter Brook on censorship 
No tribute to the latent power of the theatre is as 
telling as that paid to it by censorship. In most 
regimes, even when the written word is free, the 
image free, it is still the stage that is liberated last. 
Instinctively, governments know that the living event 
could create a dangerous electricity -even if we see 
this all too seldom. The theatre is the arena where a 
living confrontation can lake place. 
On Peter Brook on censorship 
lie overstates the case for theatre. Or perhaps 
better, all of Notre Dame has become a playhouse of 
the ridiculous for the festival of pornography. The 
written word has always been liberated here, because 
we are Catholics, one and all. But the image-single or 
multiple-and the theatre arc not liberated. This is 
simply because here people looking at erotic art are a 
living confrontation, a facing up to their own 
underbelly and laughing girlishly. 
Back to the play 
l.ady God1va is first of all a put-on of theatre. The 
parts of a play arc clearly marked as the characters 
say This is plot, Get off this set, That's my exit cue, 
and so on. 
Wigs 
Wigs are worn not only so that they look like wigs, 
but so that they look like they're trying to look like 
wigs. 
Talk 
A ordinary director says: This is an empty space because I say that it is a stale, it is stage. Vacaro says This is an empty space that I murder and rape to make a stage. 
Flashback 
Lest you forget, in the first scene, Allen, the reedy callow Jewish hoy, wowed and had em rolling in the aisles with queer poems ami prayers. Development 
Even then it became clear that the original scenario would have to he discarded. The actors were not supple enough to carry out M r01.'s plans. 
Note: The Quaker Oats Box effect refers to the picture of a picture of a picture (and so on) on a Quaker Oats Box. 
The Original Plan 
Until Tuesday afternoon, the first design for the festival held. The students had made the arrange­ments and the Administration had acquicsed legal responsibility for the affair. 
Note The facts of the ~.:ase arc not important; only what appears to have happened is important. Origina an cont. Unbeknownst to the onstagc cast, St. Joseph County laid its plans to capturing pornography purveyors in dassk Midwestern style. The long planned snatd1 was s~.:heduled to lake place this week. Development The St. Joseph County Authorities discover what is happening here and the plot approaches a climax in the discovery by Mroz & Friends that all will not go as planned. Reading of original plan and the original plan's cont. The climax ~.:amc when the AdministratiOn hung suspended between the students, who could revolt, and the Benders, who could not-give-money, take­-legal action. That moment briefly showed the Ad­ministration to be honest as they were falling into years. They were undecided as to who must be deceived. They were fossils and so symbols of their 
de~.:adcnce. 
What? 
You, out there in reader land, might ask what all this has to do with Ronald Tavel and John Vacaro and the gang from New York humping in Washington llall. And rightyou would be to ·ask. I am not, however, being intcntioanlly obscure. I will provide a clarification forthwith. 
A clarification 
You don't know what's going on You been away for far too long You ~.:an 't come back and think you arc still mine You're out of touch my baby, my poor discarded baby I say babybabybaby you're out of time. You were all left out Out of there without a doubt Cause babybabybaby you're out of time. 
Rolling Stones 

A further clarification , Tavel's continual shift of mode, for exa~1ple, from ~anny Brie~ to Streisand doing Brice to Kitty in · Gunsmokc IS the same continual necessary rewriting of the script. ­The situation demanded by the play cannot be arrived by simply presenting it on stage; it has to be fought out, achieved only after violence has been done to the audience. Tavel, of course, uses parody so much that it ~.:eases to be parody and bewmes the real thing. Godiva is really Brice-Strcisand-Kitty. Thesis (may be skipped) U truth can uc expressed in some artform, that artform is no longer a~.:~.:cssible to the playwright. We are so conditioned by ways of representing things(things which can sometimes be called emo­tions, feelings, or truths of the human spirit) that none of them ~.:an he responded to. They only make sense by running them hard up into one another until the feeling in them is so ennervated that it sprays out. (The audience as vagina.) Preliminary reply To rebukes of Play-House of the Ridiculous and those who d10ose to take it seriously~ also to those who publkly defend it. Art and good taste are at Notre Dame everywhere synonymously misunder­stood. 

On good taste
• 

Good taste is sin of omission. It leaves out direct awareness of formod taste is the last refuge of the dull. It is the last ditch stand of the artist. Good taste is an anesthetic. It is the critic's excuse for lack of perception. Good taste is the expression of a collossal incompetence. It is the putting on of the genteel audience as a mask or net by which to ~.:apturc the snob appeal of having kulchur at good ol ND. Good taste is the most obvious resource of the insecure. People of good taste eagerly buy the Emperor's old dothes. Good taste is the highly effident strategy of the pretentious. 
Back to the plot After the Administration decided to go with the Benders, it attempted to stop the flux of modal shift. The show (admittedly melodrama) of the Porno Conference must go on, bc~.:ause the form as set is not satisfactory. Another turn around is needed· its scheduled by the forces that try to be for the Student Center today. Tavel would be proud to have written the s~.:enario to this; Vaccaro, however, would have directed it as an even greater farce than J.ady Godiva. Clothes, props, etc. The tlow on both Sides of the greater battle of the Conference is noteworthy. When David Kahn and Marty McNamara got up during intermission last night and announced the student center meeting, it looked like it was written into the play. And when Kahn sat down with "I yield to another redhead " he was not being prc_tentious; he was merely showin~ the common human mdc~.:ency of theatre people feuding all over the Washington llall. lie assumed the rhythm of Tav~J's play and served formal notice, Guild-style, that th1s was no longer Mroz's show. Further exciting parallels Two of Tavel's lines also apply to the little drama of the Porno Conference: "From here on each line will be better than the next" and "It's the' neighbor­hood." And perhaps also "IIere's shit in your face." 
Uy Michael Patrick O'Connor 
PAGE 8 THE OBSER[JER FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1969 
ACCOUNTING, MATH AND ENGINEERING GRADUATES FOR SYSTEMS, PRODUCTION, RESEARCff, INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING, TESTING ENGINEERING, FIELD ENGINEERING, DESIGN AND SALES 
The Inland Steel Company, East CHicago, Indiana, invites you to investigate our many career opportunities. Consult the specific job descriptions in the pocket of our brochure. Our representatives will be on your campus on 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY I 3, 1969 

INLAND STEEL COMPANY 
INDIANA HAIUIOR WORKS 
EAST CHICAGO, INDIANA 
d":.':;~ ~ 


General Offices Chicago, Ill. Jos. T. R ycrson & Son Chicago, Ill. 
We are an Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans for Progress Program 
...........................,..... ~11f~tllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
FILMS Ghosts Italian Style and Bedazzled (Avon; I st feature at 6:00) 
The Subject Was Roses (Colfax; I:00, 3:00, 5:00, 7:00, 9:00) 3 in the Attic (Granada; I:30,3:30,5:30,7:30, 9:30) The Sound of Music (River Park; Today 5:30, 8:30, Sat. and Sun. 
2:15, 5:20, 8:30) Bullitt (State; I: 15, 3:15, 5: 15, 7:15, 9: IS) 
COFFEEHOUSES The Nth Degree (Social Center, basement of Moreau SMC); open Sat. evening ( 8-12) and Sun. evening (8-11 ). Performing Sat. are Dee Bacon, Pete Peterson, Paul Guernsey, and Bob Ewan and Ann Tiedmann. Performing Sun. are Rick Homan John Fonesca, Simon and Blahah, Maureen Philips, and Steve Johns and Jeff Johnson. Mass at II. Lower Level (Badin's basement); open this Fri. evening 9:30-1:00. Performing arc John Bachmann, Paul Guernsey and Mary Ann TorcH, the Jug Band, and Sorel Munch. 
Misc. The Chicago Symphony Orchestra performing at the Athletic and 
Convocation Center tonight at 8:00pm, Irwin Hoffman conducting. In the Notre Dame Art Gallery, O'Shaughnessy Hall: West Gallery, "Paintings and sculpture from the Richard Brown-Baker Collection." 
East Gallery, "Still Life from the Permanent Collection," and "Kinetic Sculpture" by Konstantine Milonadis. 


Does it really work? 
If you've ever resorted to NoDoz~' at 4 a.m. the night before an exam, you've probably been disappointed. 
NoDoz, after all, is no substitute for sleep. Neither is anything else we can think of. 
What NoDoz is is a very strong stim­ulant. In fact, NoDoz has the strongest stimulant you can buy without a prescrip­tion. 
Caffeine. 

What's so strong about that? 
If we may cite The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics: Caffeine is a powerful central nervous stimulant. Caf­feine excites all portions of the central nervous system. Caffeine stimulates all portions of the cortex, but its main action is on the psychic and sensory functions. It produces a more rapid and clearer flow of thought and allays drowsiness and fatigue. After taking caffeine, one is ca­pable of more sustained intellectual ef­fort and a more perfect association of ideas. There is also a keener apprecia­tion of sensory stimuli. 
Very interesting. But why take 
NoDoz when you can get caffeine in a cup of coffee? 
Very simple. You take NoDoz all at once instead of sipping coffee for 10min­utes. And if you take two NoDoz tablets, the recommended dosage, you get twice the caffeine in a cup of coffee. 
Two tablets-isn't that likely to be habit forming? Definitely not. NoDoz is completely non-habit forming. 
Which means it's safe to take whether you're cramming at night. Or about to walk into an 8 o'clock class. Or driving somewhere (even though you're rested) and the monotony of the road makes you drowsy. 
One last thing you should know about NoDoz. It now comes in two forms. Those familiar white pills you take with water. And a chewable tablet called NoDoz Action Aids*. It tastes like a choc­olate mint, but it does everything regular NoDoz does. 

to stay awake this long, you know that's quite a lot. 

Dan McElroy, Vice-Chairman of the Student Honor .Council, released the figures on the number of violations of the Honor Council Code during the first semester. There were 22 reported violations last semester as compared to 24 during the first semester of 6 7-68. The cases broke down into six self­reports, eleven faculty reports, and five students reports. There 
were nine from the College of Arts and Letters, two cases from Business Administration, three cases from Engineering, and fifteen cases from the Freshman Year of Studies. 
This is the complete break­down of violations: There were twenty-two cases investigated of which eleven were from Arts and Letters, one from Business Ad­ministration, three from Engin­eering, and seven from Science. Ten freshman, five sophomores, five juniors and two seniors were involved. The penalties that wery decreed are: two failures in the course, six less than failure in the course, two suspensions from the University, eight were exonerated, and four are pend­ing as of last January 29. 
............. 

Dr. K. T. Yang, professor of mechanical engineering, will speak on "Goldstein's Expansion Technique and its Applications to Problems in Viscous Flow Theory" at a Rutgers University College of Engineering seminar Feb. 18. 
11111111111111 

A. Peter Walshe, assistant pro­fessor of economics and director of African Studies will lecture on "African Trouble Spots" at 8 pm Tuesday Feb. II in the lounge of the University Club. 
Walshe will discuss the Biafra­-Nigeria war as well as problems in Ghana. Rhodesia. and South Africa. 
Available in every hall on campus Stewart Sandwich Service 915 Blaine 232-2625 
•T.M.©l969 Bristoi-Myer!. Co. 
PAGE 9

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1969 THE OBSERVER 



PrOblems plague conference 
By TED PIHCE 
While other campuses had problems with faculty tenure and war protests, Notre Dame came alive on the issue of cen­sorship, and exactly what con­stituted an illegally pornographic film or painting. But it is doubt­ful that the organizers of the Conference on Pornography and Censorship wanted the type of furor that developed out of yes­terday's program. 
It was a day of sit-ins, meet­ings, legal technicalities and plain frustration. It involved both the straight and the hip, administrators and the Theater of the Ridiculous. 
The crisis hit the fan shortly after noon, when members of the Academic Commission began setting up the Erotic Art display on the second floor of La Fortune. A faculty panel pre­viewed the display in order to give their opinion to Vice Pres­ident for Student Affairs, Rev. Charles I. McCarragher and other administration officials on its merits. 
Prof. Thomas Fern, of the Art Departm~nt, said that although 
tllere was some ment to it, "the subject matter gets in the way, and makes it objectionable." This seemed to be the consensus of the panel. 
Mr. Philip Facenda, Special Assistant to the President, was primarily concerned with the legal aspects of the show. There has been a recent crackdown on pornography in St. Joseph County, and he feared that if the program were to continue there might be indictments of con­ference organizers and even ad­ministrators and trustees. 
"The grand jury has closed two bookstores recently, and in light of this, the display may be viewed as defiance of the county prosecutor," said Facenda. "We would be forcing him to initiate some kind of action." 
OHStR VER Insight 
A. large crowd, fired by Allen 
Ginsberg's suggestion that they sit-in until tne show was opened entered La Fortune and or­ganized themselves. Student 
Honorary l.aw degrees 
Dean Emeritus Joseph O'Meara and Professor Emeritus William D. Rollison of the Law School will receive honorary doctor of law degrees Saturday Feb. R at a e pm academic convocation held in conjunction 
with  the  centennial  observance  
of the law school.  
Associate  Justice  William  J.  

Brennan of the U.S. Supreme Court will deliver the main ad­dress at the convocation to be held in lhe Athletic-Convocation arena. 
O'Meara, 70, retired as dean last September after 16 years of directing legal education at the nation's oldest Catholic law school. A native of Cincinnati, Ohio, O'Meara took his under­graduate work at Xavier Univer­sity and received his law degree from the University of Cincin­nati. A.n authority on federal taxation, he lectured at the 
University of Cincinnati College of Law from 1943 to 1946. 
At the time of his appoint­ment, O'Meara was a member of two law firms, Merland, O'Meara Santen and Willging of Cin­cinnati, and Oargush, Caren, Greek and King of Columbus, Ohio. lie is now of the staff of the Legal Aid Society of St. Joseph County, fulfilling a promise to practice law on be­half of the poor following retire­ment. 
Rollison, 71, a familiar figure in the 100-year history of the Law School, is currently a pro­fessor in the Cumberland School of Law at Samford College in Birmingham, Ala. lie retired from the Law School in 1963 after 33 years in its faculty. 
A. native of Bloomfield, Ind., Rollison holds A.B. and LL.B. degrees from Indiana University and an LL.M. from Harvard University School of Law. lie taught for eight years as a mem­ber of the University of Alabama Law Faculty before coming to Notre Dame. A. specialist in estate planning, he has written four books and ledured exten-
TilE POOL ROOM 201 N. Michigan IOa.m. 12p.m. Special rates on Thursday for N.D. and St 
sstudcnt 
sively on that subject. 
Dea~ William B. Lawless of the Law School also announced that the University would later confer an honorary doctor of laws on a prominent English jurist, Lord Alfred Thomson Denning, Master of the Roots, Royal Courts of Justice, The Strand, London. Lord Denning, third in line to the Lord High Chancellor of Great Britain, will visit the campus at a date in April yet to be determined, Law­less said, and receive the degree at a Law School convocation. 
Lord Denning was instrument­al in helping Notre Dame set up its program of law studies in England for second-year stu­dents. Dr. George W. Keeton, dean of the University of Lon­don Faculty of Laws at London University, which hosts the Notre Dame program, will speak 
at a 12:30 pm Saturday lun­cheon for centennial observance participants in the Athletic-
Body President Richard Rossie, Academic Commissioner John Mroz, and Conference Chairman Thomas Schatz, moved by the backing of the students an­nounced that they would open the Art Show, and show all the films, but one which had a pre­vious court judgement against it, and take personal responsibility for the conference from then on. 
However, due to a mismarked film can, the film that was not to be shown, a scorcher called, ironically, Flaming Creatures was shown almost in its entirety. Realizing their mistake, the con­ference officials stopped the screening with about two min­utes left. 
The Art Display met with mixed reaction. Many delegates felt that the display was valuable insight of the discussions which are scheduled for later this week­end, but that it was indeed pornographic, and of little value in itself. A.s one Freshman put it, "You have to be kind of wierd to enjoy this for its own sake." 
There were those who reacted casually to the show, however. "This is maybe bad for you," said La Fortune's janitor, "but not for me. It's nothing new for me. I'm over fifty." 
But perhaps the definitive re­mark came from English Professor Peter Michelson, who said that the display "was not elegantly hung." 
Varied reaction to the Con­ference points up the fact that on one is exactly sure of what i's proper and what is por­nographic. Artists for centuries have dealt with nudes, even co­ed nudes, and some have been accepted as artistically valuable. But where is the line drawn? And if a work is erotic, is it necessarily pornographic? What should be the guidelines to dis­tinguish smut from art? Who will apply these guidelines? 


The_ intent of the artist may be cited, but proves equally vague. Any man with a gift of gab can concoct enough equivo-
Some were awed 
cation to justify the Playmate of the Month as an Art Classic. 
It was exactly because of the lack of clarity that there was to be a Conference on Pornography and Censorship. But can you discuss it without being exposed to the subject? It would appear not. But when discussion of a problem is thwarted by legal snags, you can bet that someone will say his rights have been violated. 


•.ICIIolini.iv.loiiic~a-tiiiioiin..iiCiiieiiniiteiir..iiciloiinilco 11rilislllelll..._______________________________________..
11u 



ATTENTION SOPHS-
If you will complete your first two years of college this spring and have not had ROTC training, you now have a special opportunity to earn an Army officer s commission in the next two years. You may qualify to fulfill your military obligation as an officer while you study for a college degree in the field of your choice. 
You will receive an allowance of $50 each month during your junior and senior years. If you desire, you may request postponement of ;•our military service while you complete your studies for a graduatt. degree. 
Graduate students with two years of academic work remaining, may also apply for a commission under the two year program. 
Army ROTC 
For complete inf(mnation and atJtJ/ication for tlze Arm!" 

Two Year Program 
ROTC Two Year program, a/lend the hriefing at 7:00 tn/1, IOFeb /909. Rm. :!17. ROTChuilding. 
OUR APOLOGIES 

Due to the great demand for tickets, the Saturday afternoon .(Feb. I 5) performance of 
THE FOUR TOPS 
has been completely sold out. Due to fire ordinances we will be unable to ~ell standing room. The Student Union Social Commission extends its thanks for_your enthusiasm. 
PAGE10 1liF OHYFRUF.R. 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Don Hynes 
Police power 
llll........allllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
The paroxysm of fear has driven middle class decided to purchase the equipment independently. America to greater and greater efforts in the In the past we have seen the power that labor struggle to eak out a more bountiful economic unions can wield, but this influence has been reward. Rampant inflation combined with com-predominantly economic. What fantastic amount munity competition in the race for wall to wall of power will a nationwide policeman's union color television have contributed to the increasing-carry, and how will it be directed since its primary Jy shriller cry for more money. No person feels concern is not economic, but social order? We secure in his economic or social position. No have seen what men like Walter Reuther, George person can be satisfied with his visual props in the Meany, and Jimmy Hoffa can do at the head of USA cashbox scenario because Madison Avenue their respective unions. How much greater is the continually raises its demands. authoritarian potential for the leader of a nation-
The policeman is no different than his fellow wide union of armed police? workers and last week a conference was held in The mind of the policeman and the mind of the New York, attended by representatives of the law criminal are violently orientated, but for psych-enforcement organizations from all major cities, to ological reasons the policeman feels the moralistic prompt the creation of a nationwide policeman's pressures of society, and channels his violence in a union. Fiscally their demands are just, in that the way which is socially acceptable. The creation of a average city cop is -underpaid for a job which is union, with the accompanying independence of demanding, dangerous, and one for which there is action, frees the policeman from the ties and an alarming need. Simply, the law enforcement pressures of the society which he is supposed to be officer fulfills a vitally important social function serving. The advocates of the union say that the for which he should receive a salary that is police feel a "responsibility" to preserve order and commensurate with his service. freedom within society, but how many people 
However, the idea of a labor uni6n is one in would desire the police themselves to decide on 
which a group of men with a similar vested interest the implementation of these amorphous terms? 
come together to form an individual power base The basic tactic of a strike is passivity, a 
for their demands within the economy. The idea non-violent refusal to work, which allows econom­
of a policeman is that of a civil servant who works ic pressure to drive the desired wedge. The police 
to enforce the law for the protection of the people do not have to decide on this type of passive 
at large, independent of any personal vested action, because they have the tools at hand to 
interest. What will happen when the police organ-enforce their desires, and there are no controlling 
ize as an independent power structure-within agents over them. Government officials only have 
society, rather than functionary servants of the threats, while the police have guns. 
people? And what would happen if the nationwide 
The major point of discussion at the conference police union called for a complete shut-down. In 
confirms the worst of futuristic fears. The repre-New York black people move out of Harlem and 
sentatives complained about salaries, but then begin looting middle class businessmen in the 
quickly moved onto the demand for greater suburbs. In Chicago middle class businessmen 
weapons facilities. One police officer from Boston move out of the suburbs and begin looting blacks 
said that he and his comrades had gotten together in the ghettos. The society in general begins eating 
and decided that they needed an armored car and itself apart from within. The police certainly 
high powered rifles. Their request had been turned deserve more money, but just as certainly they 
down by administrative officials, but the police should not have any such power as a confederation 
officer further stated that since the city govern-would bring. The union for order could possibly 
ment had turned them down, their local union had be the catalyst for chaos. 
EUROPE V2 FARE 
N.D. Easter Vacation $225 * Chicago--London-Chicago 
Send self-addressed, stamped envelope 3$.10 for details before Feb. 14 to-London, Box 592, Notre Dame 
*Faculty and Graduate students and wives given preference. Mark en­velopes "FAGS" 
MANY IMITATIONS 
No Substitutions 


THE ORIGINAL SPORTS CAR 
see Jaguar George at 
PEPPERS IMPORTED CARS, INC. 
3105 West Sample Street South Bend, Indiana 

TOP SALES & SERVICE FOR EUROPES FINEST AUTOMOBILES 
MG-Austin-Jaguar 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1969 





THE WORLD TODAY 
""· 
Garrison promises conspiracy proof 
NEW ORLEANS, La., (UPI)-Dist. Atty. Jim Garrison told an all male jury in the Clay L. Shaw trial yesterday the state would prove President Kennedy was murdered by a conspiracy and that he fell backward from a fatal shot fired from the front. 
Presenting the state's opening statement in its attempt to convict the 55 year old retired businessman of conspiring with Lee Harvey Oswald and others to murder Kennedy, Garrison said he would prove the shots in Dallas came from "different guns from different locations." 
Garrison said the state would produce testimony that after the assassination Nov. 22, 1963, Oswald ran down the grass in front of the Texas School Book Depository Building and climbed into a station wagon with another man at the wheel "and that this station wagon pulled away and disappeared into the traffic on Elm Street." 
The Warren Commission report of September, 1964, concluded that Oswald, acting alone, fired the fatal shots from a sixth floor window of the depository and that he escaped by taxicab and bus. 
The Taxi driver-now dead-who testified that he carried Oswald told the Warren Commission he remembered Oswald because he gave him a nickel tip. 
Garrison indicated the state will show Oswald carried his rifle into the depository and that he was one of those doing the shooting. But Garrison said Oswald did not fire the fatal shot itself because Oswald was behind Kennedy. 
Reading verbatim from a written statement-which he told the jury was required by Louisiana law-Garrison said the state would prove Kennedy "was murdered not by a lone individual behind him but from a conspiracy." 

Nixon plans his vent~re to Europe 
LONDON (UPI) -President Nixon's decision to fly to Europe only five weeks after his inauguration warmed European governments and officials Thursday. Many officials interpreted it as a bid to rally America's European allies for possible summit talks with the Soviet leaders later this year. 
The President's announcement also spurred hopes among European officials that the United States will show increased interest in Europe and its problems once the Vietnam War is over. 
. Eur?pean officials generally assume Nixon will give top priority in , his swift round of talks to trying to improve relations with French President Charles de Gaulle. 
While it was considered certain the crusty old French leader will give the President a polite, probably even friendly hearing, officials rule out any chance Nixon could change de Gaulle's mind on issues like the Vietnam War, the North Atlantic Treaty Alliance (NATO) and monetary problems that have plagued U.S.-French relations increasingly over the past decade. 

Israeli troops reimpose heavy curfew 
JERUSALEM (UP!) Arab unrest erupted anew yesterday in widespread areas of Israeli occupied Jordan and Gaza. An Arab guerrilla leader warned of a "Viet Cong type" war against the Jewish state. 
In Washington, President Nixon expressed deep concern over the unresolved crisis in the Middle East. He told a news conference he was pursuing every avenue to peace because "it is an area of the world that might explode into major war." 
The United States already has proposed Big Four power preliminary talks at the United Nations to investigate the possibility of a peaceful settlement in the long dispute between Israel and the Arab states. 
But Gideon Raphael, Israel's director general of the Foreign Ministry, insisted peace in the Middle East could not be attained by proxy and reiterated demands for direct negotiations between Israel and the Arabs. 
Raphael said Israel was not concerned over the U.S. agreement to discuss the Middle East crisis w\th the Soviet Union, Britain and France at the U.N. because Israel's position has been made known in Washington. 
The major troublespot in the occupied west bank of Jordan continued to be Nblus, the biggest city in the area with a population of about 80,000. 
V let talks center on 17th parallel 
PARIS (UPI) -U.S. Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge told the­Vietnam peace conference Thursday the United States would accept . a unified Vietnam once the war stops -if that is what the people of the North and South want. 
He said the United States was not committed to keeping South Vietnam and North Vietnam divided at the 17th parallel, which separates them now. 
The chief American negotiator's statement followed Viet Cong demands for the ousting of the Saigon government and a Hanoi rejection of the U.S. proposal to truly demilitarize the zone between the two Vietnams. 
None of the four participants-the United States, North Vietnam, South Vietnam or the Viet Cong-reported progress in the third negotiating session, a 6Y2 hour meeting. They scheduled a fourth session for next Thursday. 
Lodge emerged from the conference saying, "The going is hard." He added, "There must be no false optimism. But it is also true we must not be discouraged." 
"No progress was made today," U.S. spokesman William Jorden 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1969 THE OBSERVER 
PAGE 11 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIJ ilr'~~ ~~~~ ....................................................................... 
has developed from a small, of well-rounded men, proficient an immense
Editor: business Here is a behind-the-scenes little-known Catholic school into as engineers, scientists, business­organization such
Kay Markle's column as Notre view of the conference on cen­
one of the nation's leading uni-men, social scientists, as well as Dame.
"Bitchin' " is the latest in a long 
sorship which is being so success­line of exposees on the mental versities-a leader in the arts the Iear ned athletic competitors. Our "division of labor" is a fully censored by St. Joseph
rot which exists at St. Mary's social, applied and rese~rch These are men who have de­perfectly honorable attempt to County via the Notre Dame ad­
and Notre Dame. Once again, sciences. The accomplishments veloped the physical and spiri­define the positions in our ministration. The poem is en­
students at both schools have of our graduates as Rhodes can­tual aspects of their existence. government. There is little point titled Reflections from a Glass
been treated to a dish of banal didates, Wilson Fellows Perhaps it would be good for to electing an officer if she has name calling (bricks, organiza­Fulbright and Danforth Scholar~ Mr. O'Meilia to realize that there no rep~esentative function, only Hye or perhaps, The Blue View. tion men, cattle, etc.) with no and the leadership demonstrated will be those who avoid responsi­a service capacity. With the Here is a page of Notre Dame­apparent purpose. The column is by our alumni in government, bilitys in every group-be they advent of Community Color it blue, no not with filled with details of the We­medicine, education, law, indus­Government, many offices that crayon,
athletes or not, be they at Notre 
formerly had legislating power
must-refo rm-the-Establish1nent try and business is convincing With pencil, the blue one, yes!
Dame or not. Good journalistic
myth. evidence of the quality of the have lost it. Due to this some Put a cross over Notre Dame style requires that he examine
Fine. Now that everyone men and the education from du offices should be eliminated, No, not that kind of cross, Lac. redefined or appointed.
the total picture, rather than
knows it by heart, where do we An X, a falling cross in blue. 
overemphasizing one aspect in 
Yes, St. Mary's government is Looks more like a swastika­go from here? According to Miss A very important segment of 
an attempt to degrade the at­
Markle, the solution is to get this education has been the em­restructuring but it is Says Who?Now put the flicks some "distinctly different phasis upon the athletic as well mosphere to which he can not simplifying, not complicating its awayadjust.
minds," bringing some style, as the academic man. It has long structure. We are freeing those And the art, close the boxes, elected to legislate and represent doors,
through diversity to our schools. been recognized that a well I do not wish to ridicule but At this point, I disagree. You rounded individual has mastered might I suggest that Mr. from the duties that are purely Minds; we can't let It escape service so that they can do one So shouts the sonless father 
have offered a solution with no his body as well as his mind. O'Meilia's column demonstrates 
job well. We are splitting the And licks his slippery lips 
depth or sense of direction. flow Notre Dame has enjoyed a that he neither appreciates nor 
duties of the Academic Behind a sash of merit badges 
can these "minds" bring diver­national repuration for athletic understands this balance of the 
Commissioner so that one One for personal hygiene and 
sity when you say there is none achievement and as such does physical and academic which person can devote all of her time thisto begin with? If the minds arc attract students who desire ath­Notre Dame and many of her 
to legislation for academic For perfect attendance and self
imported to fill in the existing letic participation suited to their lettermen have achieved. void, who can say t at diversity individual capacities and desires. progress, and another girl to Righteousness. The secret is handle such things as Free U. secure 
and style will come into being? According to the picture Respectfully submitted, and lectures. We are merging, or Beneath a million bras and
The result may be a dictatorship, which Mr. O'Meilia painted in eliminating, our many legislating pantiesrather than a diversity of o­Wednesday's OBSHR VHR, Notre Bob Greene 
boards so that jurisdictional Shorts, jocks and clothing of
pinion. It almost happened at Dame, in the interest of profit, 157 Alumni hangups do not interfere with 
every

Columbia. has bred a tribe of physical the issues. By cutting down eight Size and shape and hue. Keep it 
Maybe you arc right that the giants suited only for athletic 
committees into two we are Out of Notre Dame and put It
formed concrete resulting from competition. He made a similar Dear Editor: 
clarifying and strengthening the Back in advertising, right where 
our American socialization can­characterization in an 
Regarding your editorial channels for legislation. It belongs. /lint and intimate 
not be displaced at Notre Dame OBSHR VER column concerning 
"SMC Student Union?" in the Student Government has no NUiince or allude but don't y~u
or St. Mary's. Neither can it be "The Notre Dame Man" last 
last issue, you would be correct dare
affected by minds whose think­semester (November 12, 1968) intention of becoming "a 
in saying that such an idea is 
sounding board for the trivial." Tell It like It is or show ft.
ing is different from the vast when he spoke of Coach 
"pritcntious" if your reasons Four letter words in the air
It is evolving to be a true
majority of students. If the a­Parseghian running "his .mon­
were valid. But when such strong government concerned solely Write them in blue around the 
wareness in response you are sters up and down the field." 
criticisms have no basis then it is dome
with the academic and socialseeking is to be brought to the Although I did not do my 
another case of farcical 
issues for the betterment of St. Words like smut, dirt, or hard
surface, it must come from with­undergraduate work at Notre 
editorializing. core.
in each person. Dame, and am certainly not an Mary's. But in doing so, we hope
Our proposed "Student 
to make the commissions There, the picture is complete or
John G. Powers athlete, I have had the oppor­
Union" will be a student service become more effective. At least as I see ft. We've caged 
435 Keenan tunity to meet many of our 
bureau of six commisswhs 
The beast, now no more meat in
lettermen as scholars as well as Sally Strobel
headed by a coordinator who is His diet-oatmeal will suffice. athletes. Unlike Mr. O'Meilia, I
Editor: answerable to a representative Bill Lorimer 
Over the years, Notre Dame have been impressed by a group 
body of students. It will not be 
Dear Editor, Graduate Student 


Cancellations have legal implication 
coni inued from page 2 
Supreme Court J usticc Abe shown and enough people had 
and take responsibility along Fortas's nomination for Chief seen the Art Show to make the with the Student Union and Justice of the Supreme Court. discussions profitable. Student Government. SUAC of­At a meeting Monday night, 
Last night at the stage per­ficials estimate that approxi­SUAC officials had decided not formance of Lady Godiva, Dave mately 1800 students then filed to show the film again out of Kahn, former head of the ND through the exhibit. Last night 
fear of legal repercussions Film Society, announced that a M roz announced that the exhibit against the Student Union. Kelly group of students would stage a had been cancelled permanently. again stopped the showing of the mass meeting tomorrow in the film. Student Center protesting the
Meanwhile, at the Center for Mroz then addressed the cancellation of the events. Kahn,
Continuing l~ducation, SUAC began the scheduled showing of 
crowd stating the mistake that in an interview with THE 
two films, The Fuses and //old had been made. At the time, he OBSERVER, last night stated said that the scheduled films that if a majority of the students
Me while I'm Naked. SUAC personel, however, received the would be shown at a later date. at the meeting concurred the wrong can of film and began lie then went into a three hour film would be shown there. M roz said that he was prouo
showing the film Kodak Ghosts consultation with legal advisors 
of the student reaction to the

Poems by New York producer of the University. He conferred Andrew Noren. Mike Kelly, with Mr. Phillip Facenda, Special conference. lie termed the stu-·---------------------------. dent attitude "good" and said
SUA(' aid, after consultation Assistant to the President. After that the student body was
with Father Charles a conference with Wade a·nd "serious in discussion" and that 
M~RD~GR~S
McCarragher, Vice-President for Student Union President 
they "come to sec it for the

Student Affairs and Mroz, or­Rembusch, the Student Union 
purpose that it was intended."

dered that the film be halted and issued its statement cancelling 
Mroz stated that SUAC was

another be run. the film and the Art Show. 
"not pleased at all" with the

SUAC then began the showing Mroz and Wade emphasized 
decision to have to stop the 




OFF CAMPUS
that the discussion aspects of the
of the Flaming Creatures a film 
showing of the films and the

conference, the play Lady
which the New York State Su­
closing of the Art Exhibit. He

(,"odiva, and the Fugs concert
preme Court had declared 
emphasized that the move was

would continue as scheduled.
clearly illegal under existing 
made, however, not as a "value

Mroz stated that probablystatutes. The same film figures 
judgement" but for "purely legal

enough of the films had been
prominently in the defeat of , 

RAFFLE RETURNS 
MONDAY AND TUESDAY 
TilE OBSI:R Vl:R NEEDS PEOPLE, DUE TO ITS 
Coming Soon 


10 AM-4 PM
Based on the LARGE GROWTH OVER THE PAST HALF YEAR, 
• 
t'ul itzcr Prize winning novel TO HELP ITS CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT IN by Bernard Malrnun 

OFF-CAMPUS OFFICE 
MAILING ITS SUBSCRIPTIONS. CALL X661. 
thefixer 

..
MtiiO(OIOI 



~~----~~------------------~------------------~ 


7-rn tHl r ~.; J)"J. L)

PAGE 12 ' ...... -· _. .. .... . . . \. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1969 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111,111111111 

Swimming today ··­



Big weekend on tap 
By TERRY SHIELDS 
Observer Sports Writer 

By Milt Richman, UPI columnist This will be one of the busiest weekends of the winter for N D 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 and its new C'onvo Center. This 
Vince returns 
NEW YORK (UPI)-The applause already has died down. 
Everybody knows what he did in Green Bay. By this time it's an old story. Now they're all
.. 
saying let's see him do it again with Washington. 
Vince Lombardi likes to make little jokes about people calling him inhuman. He even likes to leave the occasional impression he is. Don't you believe it. He gets nervous also. His voice trembles with emotion, too. One of those times he did and it was two years ago when he returned to Fordham University, his alma mater, to receive the highest award tt>~ school can bestow. 
Lombardi has been in the football business long enough to know the score. He knows that well. he also knows nobody cares who won yesterday. 
"It'll be a little tougher than it was in Green Bay," Lombardi says. "It's going to be a long pull." 
If it comes as any consolation to him, all of Lombardi's former players without a notable exception believe he will convert the Redskins into a contender. 
Says his old quarterback Bart Starr: 
"There is very little in the way of football coach Lombardi can not do." 
Says Packer tackle Bob Skoronski: "I'd never bet against him in anything." Says Forrest Gregg, who also played· tackle for Lombardi: 
"I believe he can do it. The way he dedicates himself to winning is impossible to describe. He drove us hard and worked us hard, but nobody worked as hard as he did. r imagine he'll work the same way with Washington." 
Possibly no one is more articulate on the subject of Vince Lombardi than Jerry Kramer, who came to the Packers the same time as his old coach and now remains behind. Kramer, an all-Pro guard several times in his II seasons with Green Bay, hasn't made up his mind yet about returning next year but he has made up his mind about Lombardi. 
"Some people may say it'll be easier for him with Washington because he has good material to work with, but I think it'll be more difficult than when he started out with us," says Kramer. "I remember when he was named coach for us. I talked with some of our player on the telephone and they said 'Vince, who? Where'd he come from?'" 
Kramer laughed recalling how it was then. 
"Some of our fellas had hardly heard of him. This time it's different. Everybody knows him. Everybody')) be watching him. People are going, to be extremely shrewd in dealing with him. Remember, talent is
• 
harder to get today. If he goes after a player with another club, the other club will pull back automatically. It'll say 'well if Vince Lombardi likes him he must be pretty good.' No question, it'll be tougher for him. Knowing him the way I do afternoon the Irish swimming team will meet Kent State at 4 
p.m. in the Rockne Memorial 

though, I'd have to say he'll 
pool to begin the action. The 

succeed in Washington. I'm sure 
Notre Dame splashers are 

he'll go ahead there with every 
currently on a five meet winning

force known to man." 
streak. On the personal side, Kramer This evening the hockey team has one tip for all Redskin will play host to St. Mary's of players. He says they shouldn't Minnesota. The Winonans dare report overweight to managed to tic ND in a previous 
Lombardi at training camp. encounter on their own ice. A "The smartest thing they can rubber match will take place do is get into best possible tomorrow night. Both games physical shape," says Kramer. begin at 7:30 p.m. The Irish "If they do that, then there's a skaters are sporting a 12-3-3 reasonably fair chance they slate going in to tonight's 
won't die." encounter. 
If the wrestling team manages to wak~ up early enough on Saturday morning they will be given a chance to extend their undefeated string against Drake, Cincinnati, and Wabash in the Notre Dame Invitational. The first match begins at 1O:OO a.m. followed by bouts at noon and 
2:00 p.m. The grapplers are 3_
0 

in dual meets and arc the champions of the Rochester Tech Invitational. The matches 
will be held in the auxiliary gym of the Convo. 
Meanwhile, upstairs in the fencing room the fabled fencers of ND will meet a new challenge from the teams of Chicago U. and U. of Detroit. Detroit holds an undefeated record whJ.ch includes a victory over highly regarded Wisconsin. ND's record stands at 8-0. The match gets underway at I: 30 p.m. 
Motown will also provide the competition for the Irish cage team in the person of Spencer Haywood and his U D teammates. The Irish defeated the Titans earlier this season, but victory IS should still be hard to come by. Every game is critical from now on if Johnny Dee's men hope to gain a bid to the NCAA Tourney. 
To complete the agenda, Coach Alex Wilson will take Bill "Soul Bird" Hurd and the rest of the track squad to East Lansing, Michigan to compete in the Michigan State Relays. 
Just think, all of these winter sports are ·m full swing, and Jake Klein has already called out his pitchers and catchers for spring training. 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

Terry, Coley and a 'Gold Brick' 
It was a very surprising pro football draft for Notre Dame quarterbacks. Nobody wanted All-American Terry Hanratty until the second round, nobody wanted Coley O'Brien at all, and the Dallas Cowboys wanted Bob Belden in the 12th round, thinking that perhaps he could develop into a "Gold Brick." 
For the_rest of the Irish seniors, there were few surprises. George 
K unz and J1m Seymour went in the first round; nine teammates got 
their phone calls later. 
The night before the draft, Falcon coach Norm Van Brocklin called Kunz to say, "You're o;Jr man." With a good sense of PR, Van Broc~lin asked George to fly South and meet the press next mornmg. And when has the 1968 Irish co-captain ever said no? It was a cordial session Kunz had with the sportswriters and at its conclusion, one reporter said, "Thank you for the inte~iew." George replied, "Thank you for listening." Not since the days of Scarlet O'Hara has Atlanta been so charmed. 
Seymour had expected to go East, probably to Boston. The Rams had shown only token interest in him; he filled out their questionairc ''just our of courtesy." The night before the draft, a Los Angeles scout called him. Seymour said he'd be happy to play in 
L.A. The scout said, "Hope I can talk to you tomorrow." And he did. 
Jim and South Bend lawyer Julius Tucker, who is negotiating his contract, will fly to the coast soon to meet with coach George Allen and pick up a play book. Seymour's chances of sticking with the ·Rams depend on the other three wide receivers. Bernie Casey has said he will retire after the '69 season, aging Pat Studstill must overcome the pulled hamstring which bothered him all last year, and former ND split end Jack Snow must patch up his differences with 
the Ram front office. 
Seymour and chief playmate Hanratty are seeing plenty of 
banquet action this winter, and Terry is taking his lumps in the 
after-dinner barbs. He tells one on himself. After the '68 Southern 
Cal game, a young boy asks Terry for four autographs. Hanratty, 
somewhat curious, obliges, but requests an explanation. "Oh," says 
the little fellow, "I can trade four Terry Hanrattys for one OJ. 
Simpson." 
Joe Paterno, who has been taking shots at Hanratty since I 966 
~hen he sai.d Terry couldn't qualify academically at Penn State, got 
m another hck recently. 
"I was interested in Terry in his sophomore year at Butler (Pa.) 
High School," says Paterno. "I contacted his coach Art Bernardi 
who said he was a fine football player with on~ big fault--h~ 
wouldn't take a shower. 'That's simple,' I told him, 'send a note 
home to his mother.' Bernardi said, 'I did. Look at the reply I got.' 
Then he showed me a note from Mrs. Hanratty. 'Dear Mr. Bernardi 
Coach him, don't smell him."' ' 
Paterno's other banquet trick is presenting Hanratty a "No. 2" 
button, in reference to his second-round selection by the Pittsburgh 
Steelers. 
It's been a long time since a quarterback performed well in 
Pittsburgh. The offensive line throws what ND assistant Joe Yonto 
calls "look-out btocks." A tackle will miss the defensive end then 
turn to the quarterback and yell, "Look out." ' 
. Last fall, coach Bill Austin said of the three Steeler QBs-Kent Nix, Dick Shiner and Danny Holman-"They're miserable." In fact in one game, Dick Hoak gained more yards on two halfback passe~. 
(37) than all the quarterbacks combined. Shiner was two of 16 for 12 yards, Nix one of eight for nine yards, Holman did not play. Thus, Hanratty, a fine thrower, local boy and big box-office 
draw, was a natural first-round choice. Terry visited the Steeler brass Jan. 25-26 in Pittsburgh, had his knee examined and came back to Notre Dame convinced that he would return to Western Pennsylvania shortly. 
On Jan. 27, Pittsburgh hired a new coach, Chuck Noll of Baltimore. Noll said he would select a player who could start the opening game of 1969. Few rookie quarterbacks can do that. The Steelcrs, picking fourth on Jan. 28, tappped a defensive tackle from North Texas State-Joe Greene. 
Halfway through the first round, Hanratty still was available. Chicago called Pittsburgh and offered to take Hanratty and send him to the Steelers in exchange for a veteran to be named later. Pittsburgh refused. 
End of the first round. Two quarterbacks, Greg Cook of Cincinnati and Mickey Dombres of Columbia, were gone. Not Hanratty. Now, certainly, Buffalo, beset by QB troubles all last year. would take him. Terry and OJ. in the same backfield. Yes? No. The Bills went for Bill "Earthquake" Enyart. 
Pittsburgh, on the second chance, snatched him. Terry Hanratty, third in the Heisman Trophy balloting, was 30th in the pro draft. Why? 
There was a story that Pittsburgh had let the grapevine know Terry's knee was bad. Then the Steelers added credibility to the rumor by passing him on the first round. That discouraged the other clubs. But all the other tc«ms say they had imformation that Hanratty's operation was a success, that his knee was I 00%. 
Next possibility: The owners agreed to keep hands off him until Pittsburgh's second choice had been taken. "There's more to it than what you read in the sports pages," says Steve Stepanian, Hanratty's attorney-at-law and partner-in-crime (mostly the latter). Do the owners have something going? Stepanian nods his assent. Jim Seymour says, "No way.'' Hanratty says, "I don't know." 
What do the Buffalo Bills have to say? Personnel director Harvey Johnson, who handled their draft, explains, "On the first couple rounds you're drafting for immediate need. We finished last season with two running backs, both rookies, both small, Gary McDermott and Max Anderson. On the second round, it was a tough decision between Hanratty and Enyart. What we need most is a big back to block for OJ. Hell, Enyart is 235 and those kind don't come along often. Anderson is 5-7, 170. How's he gonna block? Besides, we have four good quarterbacks Jack Kemp, Dan Darragh, Tom Flores and Kay Stevenson. Unfortunately, they were all injured this year, but we expect they'll all be healthy by July. You have to draft to your weakness and quarterback was not our weakness." 
O~ay. In the first round, there were two clubs who needed quarterbacks. Cincinnati figured it could sell a bundle of tickets on Greg Cook and get an excellent signal-caller in the process. Fine. But how could San Diego prefer Dombres to Hanratty? 
Charger scout Jim Vandeusen takes the stand. "The way we rated them, the top four quarterbacks were all about even. That would be Dombres: Cook, Hanratty and Douglass (Bobby Douglass o~ Kansas). Terry 1s th: shortest of the four and that was his big d~sadvan~age. We weren t at all concerned with his injury. Dombres d1d nothm~ but drop-back passing during his college years, whereas, ~anr~tty did a lot of sprinting out in addition to pocket passing. He JUSt f1t our needs best, the way Joe Greene fit Pittsburgh's needs best and Greg Cook fit Cincinnati's needs best." 





