Carr's 37 points pull Irish through 

VOL. IV. NQ,-51-----=------:~-S::.;e~rv.:.::in.l:gi-.!:th:.::e~N::..:(::..:'t~re:;_:D;::a::,:m::!!:.e...:a~n~d~S:::a:::{n!jt~::_M;t;~;;;.a~rJf'~·s~c~·~(;-;-J:.:l"l~e;;;-g~eC?r~·o0n0m~l~U0110it§.J:_';-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-:Tf~H:-:-~u:-~::R~S~D~A0v~.~~o=-_:e=-_:c~.:_e~~::-:M~B~E!R~~4~.]1~96~:!9-_­
Crawford serves· on draft council 
by Bill Carter 
One of the fateful hands that drew out the birthday capsules during Monday's selective service 
lottery  belonged  to  a  Notre  
Dame student.  
Jack  Crawford,  Senior  class  

president, had been chosen by Fr. Hesburgh last summer to be Notre Dame's representative to the Indiana chapter of the 
Youth Advisory Committee on dmft reform. lie was selected last week by the other members of the Indiana Committee to act as the state's representative at the lottery drawing. 
Cruwfu~t~dofwme~t~ 
less publicized events surrounding the participation of the Youth Committee in an interview yesterday. Crawford said there were 53 youth representatives present in Washington for the ceremony, one from each state, New York City and Washington DC. The group, composed almost entirely of college, grad, and law students, had been brought to the capital at government expense to take part in the lottery activities. 
"We were all under the impres­sion that we were there to do more than just pick capsules out," 
Crawford said. "We thought we would also have the opportunity to give some information on what the national Committee felt the problems with the entire draft system, including the lottery, were. We had hoped to have a general meeting to discuss the opinions of the individual state committees but they managed to keep us busy all day Monday so that we didn't get the chance." 
The group had a meeting with Gen. Hershey early Mon. morning to work out plans for the mechanics of the lottery selection. Two student representatives asked that the group be able to hold a private meeting before anything was decided, but they were ruled out of order. 
Gen. Hershey then barred the two from any further participation in any of the lottery functions. Crawford was one of three delegates sent to attempt to change Hershey's mind. 
"We tried to explain some things to him but it was impossible. He didn't listen to any of our arguments, he just double-talked his way around the whole thing,"Crawford said. 
Down from Sinal 
Is there an Aaron Agnew? 
. WASHl~~·~oN (UPI)-Vice President Spiro T. Agnew, m ~ew cntlclsm of tactics of some antiwar protesters, outlined to a White House sponsored conference of the nation's ·governors today what he called the "Ten Com­mandments of Protest": 
"Thou shalt not allow thy opponent to speak. "Thou shalt not set forth a program of thine own. "Thou shalt not trust anybody over 30. "Thou shalt not honor thy father or thy mother. "Thou shalt not heed the lessons of history. "Thou shalt not write anything longer than a slogan. "Thou shalt not present a negotiable demand. "Thou shalt not accept any establishment idea. "Thou shalt not revere any but totalitarian heroes. "Thou shalt not ask for forgiveness for thy transgres­
sions; rather, thou shalt demand amnesty for them." 
• 

The two students 
subsequently refused to take 
part in the drawing on the 
grounds of conscience. 
"We did make up a statement which was read at the drawing but it was cut off on radio and TV by a commercial. We said that we protested the omission of the three delegations and emphasized that we were not there to endorse the lottery. But just as it had gone the whole day, we were just considered as rubber stamps, our opinions weren't important at all," Crawford claimed. 
Crawford said the group asked the selective service board if they could have a room the following day for a meeting and met with only further evasions. Finally John Rose, a special assistant to the President, arranged for a room in the White House. 
"So we finally had our Jack Crawford, Senior Class President, represented the state ofmeeting and it lasted for four Indiana at the draft lottery drawings in Washington, D.C.
continued on page 3 

Grads air variety of views 
their primary role as students. 
The English TA's felt that the nature of their subject demanded many small classes so that they could have close personal contact with their students. They therefore felt that attempting to reduce the class load to combining sections would be a poor solution on two counts. Not only would they still have the same amount of themes to correct, but they would lose some of this personal relationship. 
Much of the discussion led to a consideration of just how the T A is officially viewed. There seem to be two schools of thought on the matter. Some feel that they are being used by the university to save money. Others expressed the view that money offered to graduate students is given with the purpose of being minimal 
support while they pursue their own studies. Individual departments seem to bear a fair amount of the 
responsibility for the situation
eXp a I n e I n 0 r m 5 of 
their .own grad stu?ents. A 
comparative study ts now

Coeducation I 
Ideas came with a frequency rivaling that of the snowflakes last night at the Open Forum on the Plight of the Teaching Assistant sponsored by the Fact 
Finding Committee of the Graduate Student Union. 
On the main point-the situation of the English TA's-debate centered on two major issues. On the one hand there was the original proposal that since these people teach a full load of six hours a week coupled with all the outside work entailed in the teaching 
profession,  they  deserve  more  
than  the  $2100  they  now  
receive.  
Many  grad  students  from  
oth-er  departments  took  

objection to the very fact that these English students are required to put in the 40 hours a week that their teaching, correcting, etc. take regardless of the compensation. It was pointed out that such duties take ~o much time that the' students are prevented from


d • d 
by Cliff Wintrodc 
.. Observer Associate Editor 
Teams comprised of Notre 
Dame and St. Mary's students 
will be in the halls tonight and 
next week to discuss coeduca­
tion said Student Government 
Coeducation Commission Chair· 
man Steve O'Brien yesterday. 
O'Brien said the purpose of 
the discussions will be to at­
tempt to educate Notre Dame 
students about coeducation and 
to try to determine student 
attitudes toward coeducation. 
Areas of discussion will in­
clude the various forms coeduca­
tion might assume such as a 
situation where students from 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's will 
be living on each other's campus. 
The admittance of women not 
from St. Mary's as an alternate plan to coeducation with St. Mary's will also be discussed. 
O'B . 'd h' . . 
. nen sal IS commiSSIOn Will present a report to the Student Affairs Subcommittee of the Board of Trustees at their January meeting advocating the expansion of the co-ex program
. to mclude living on either campus. He added that if this proposal 
O nen sa1 1s comm1sswn 1s 
· t t bl hIS no accep a e, t en commission will ask for  ht e the  
admittance  of  women  to  the  
university  by  the  1971  fall  
semester.  
'B  ·  ·ct h'  ·  ·  ·  

moving ahead with the report 1·n favor of coeducation because they felt they had "a mandate 
f 1 , rom ast y_ear s student govern­ment elections to propose co­education." 
A questionnaire to the 
tenured faculty was sent out yesterday an~ ~lmos_t all o~ . the very top admtmstrahon officials have been contacted by the
. ,· . , . rommisswn said 0 Bnen. H_e said he hopes to receive rephes fr?m the tenured faculty by the m1ddle of next week.
O'B 1·e de ·b d th t.
r n sen e e reac wn 
of administration officials as 
being receptive to the idea and 
hopeful that coeducation could 
become a reality 
l-I f It th t .f· d 
e e a 1 a stu ent cares one way or another about coeducation then he ought to
' · show up at the hall discussions. 
underway to examine these but members of the depart~ents represented 1 t . ht d' d 
1 
. as mg
exchange VIews. The Math
Department was offered as the best model for English si ce both math and English :re required for all incoming frosh Wh'l t · d'ff ·
I e cer am I erences were · d th f. th
· recogmze , e Ive rna students in attendance offered some suggestions that might help .
alleviate the problems faced. H~wever, the more long range 
0
solutiOns tended to cent~r ~ a 
proposal for _a umverslty standard. The f1gures tended to be a minimum wage of $2400 
_ a maximum work
$2600 and load of 12-1 S hours per week. Those who proposed these 
pointed out that the wage should be a _minimum below which no department could go and that it be subject to cost-of-living increases. On the other hand, the work load was to apply to the actual time spent and not just to class time. 
Not all of the discussion centered around the hours and wages. Bro. Maurice Frechette reported a recent experience he: had had with the bookstore when he went to pay his bill. At that time he was informed that he had lost his I0% discount. After checking with the bookstore authorities and Mr. Corbaci to whom he was referred, the best explanation of 
the action seemed to be that it was removed because his name was not on the list of T A's granted parking permits by Mr. Arthur Pears. Bro. Maurice pointed out that 
he could see why parking space 
had to be limited by space, but 
felt that the reason for the 
discount was to help alleviate the financial burden on the teaching assistant regardless of whether he has full responsibility for a course or not. 
A report on these and other 
activities  of  the  GSU  will  be  
given  at  Friday's  meeting.  All  
members  are  encouraged  to  

attend the session which will be held at noon in the library auditorium. 
Special for all scrap devotees 
The maintenance de­partment requests all who like scrap metal to please park their bicycles on the sidewalks during the win­
ter  months  so  that  the  
snowplows may  run them  
over easily.  

r--~-~--­
~ 
~ PAGE 2 THE OBSEilfiM THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1969 · 
Ko mme rs notes reaction to hls letter 
by Jim Holsinger 
Professor Donald P. Kommers of the Government Department said yesterday that there has been "widespread reception" of a letter he wrote to the Notre Dame faculty concerning the Dow and CIA demonstrations of November 18. 
Kommers wrote the letter to offer what he called "a coun'ter­vailing theory of the relation­ship between the university and the private corporation." He asked that faculty members who agreed with his sentiments re­turn the statement to him with their signatures. 
"Actually I haven't counted them. The thing has received widespread reception in the College of Arts and Letters, but I haven't been systematically accepting them," Kommers said. 
40 returned 
About 40 of the· letters have 
been returned so far, according 
to Kommers, and the letter is to 
be circulated among the faculty 
of the other colleges soon. 
Kommers noted that he had not 
intended to make an issue of 
counting the returned letters, 
and that the responses were 
varied. 
The letter was written in answer to several other Notre Dame faculty • members who were soliciting .support of a statement that the University is g11ilty of "subservience to the political and economic system represented by the Dow Chemi­
cal Corporation and the Central Intelligence Agency." The state­ment appeared in the November 19 Observer. 
Defines terms 
Kommers argued that the University, in the capacity of the University, cannot take a posi­tion on anything. He defined the distinction between the "univer­sity structure" and the "aca­demic community." 
According to Kommers, the university is the structure which houses the diversified and plu­ralistic academic community. "The university cannot arrogate sentiments which may not be shared. Only people can take a position," he said. 
Recruiters okay 
.. Corporations do not come 
here to exchange ideas with the 
academic community, they are 
not visiting the academic com­
munity, and they are not in­
terested in the academic com­
munity. That is why it is unfair 
to demand that corporations 
defend themselves before the 
academic~ community," Kom­
mers wrote. 
Understood in this way, the use of the university structure to channel students into society is then valid, and does not inter­fere with the academic com­munity. 
Kommers commeqted that he is uncertain of the value of his definitions as a working distinc­tion, but that he was interested in establishing basic ameniti~s to allow an intellectual exchange 

·t • ·t· · t't the fact that the university has
verst y s post ton as an ms t u-. d t ·t d · 
· F · . not 1tve up o t s avowe atms.
tlon. ather Burrellts a stgner of B t h f It th t 't f · 
. u e a1so e a t was un au
the November 19 faculty state-r k th t' f th 
ment concerning the issue. to m e ac tons ? . e 
" . . protesters to any one umverstty While I cannot subscnbe to activity without further discus­bland and myopic view that sion. institutional modes of operation "On the other hand, it must are neutral, I find it increasingly be recognized that napalming hard to outline how an insti-villages is not simply 'one of the tution might take a position. I consequences of war.' Reacting am grateful for the distinction in this fashion requires decisions, Professor Kommers draws be-and producing the material re­tween the university as institu-quires corporate decisions. tion and the academic com-Hence, one can plausibly argue 
Professor Donald P. Kommers munity," Burrell wrote. that the protesters were incon­veniencing us just enough to
Need further discussion 
mented on the actions of the remind us -as individuals and as 
Dow-CIA protesters in the light Burrell said that he no longer a community -that corporate of Professor Kommer's distinc­subscribed to the portion of the decisions do have consequences, November 19 statement which
tions, and in the aftermath of that institutions do take posi­
links the protesters' actions tothe confrontations on the uni-
continued on page 7 


Apathy, bad timing kill tri p 
by Jim Graif  
Student Union Services Com­ from  student  travel  organiza­ cancellation  of  the  trip.  "I  
missioner John Monnich yester­ tions all  over  the  Midwest. We  wanted  the  Student  Union  to  
day  announced  that  the  sche­ hassled over them for three days  run a trip to Europe this spring,  
duled  Cotton  Bowl  Trip  has  until Students International As­ but  now  I  think  I'll keep  my  
been cancelled.  sociation,  Inc.,  of  Ann  Arbor  plans to  myself," Monnich said.  
Monnich, who took over for Bob Pohl earlier in the year, said that a combination of apathetic student response and poor timing on the part of Notre Dame officials forced the cancel­lation. "We were not informed of the actual Cotton Bowl bid ahead of time. Once we could go ahead  was decided upon." "After all this delay, we had only two days for sign-ups. According to our agreement, we needed forty people on each place; but we received approxi­mately twenty applicants for the Chicago flight and eleven for New York," Monnich continued.  The Commissioner also blamed the geographic nature of the Student Body. According to Monnich, many students could reach Dallas as easily as they could reach New York or Chi­cago. Monnich also cited the num­ber of student-run trips as a  

Monnich cited a number of contributing factor to the Stu­on the issue. 
with arrangements, Student-airre reasons for the apparent failure 
contmued on page 7
Need a Pleasant 
Actions reviewed (a nationwide student travel of the project. According to the In a letter to the editor of the organization) gave us an offer Commissioner, conflict between MEETING TONITE for transportation to and hotels
Observer, Rev. David Burrell, the Cotton Bowl Trip and the Kathy Barlow and Carol Co-
and Private 
in Dallas. We thought the offer
C.S.C., Assistant Professor of scheduled skiing trip to Colo-sick have organized a meeting 
was too high. We then took bids
Philosophy at Notre Dame, com-rado. "People were willing to tonight, for all those interested pay for the skiing trip, or for the in off-campus housing for St.


Dinner Meeting 
Cotton Bowl Trip, but not Mary's College. The meeting is both," he said." to be held in the Basement Monmcn contended, however, Student Lounge of Madeleva

Room? 
WANT TO GET RID OF 
that general student disinterest Hall at 7:00p.m. Previous action in projects of the nature of the and future plans will be dis­Dallas trip ultimately caused the cussed.
Try the Black Angus with 

SOUTH BEND?
its friendly atmosphere and two private dining rooms 
Applications are now being accepted
available most times except Friday and Saturday nights. 
for the following positions:
Great steak dinners and easy­

sell it • • • • •
on-the-pocketbook prices of course. For reservations pho; '! 
Make some extra money and enhance your 
234-2292 
BUSINESS MANAGER
chances of winning attractive 
STUDENT PRIZES by devoting a few hours to selling 

&SERVER ACCOUNT ANT 
MARDI GRAS RAFFLE BOOKS in South Bend. 

AD SALESMEN 
Help make 
Send resume to: MARDI GRAS '70 THE BEST EVER 
THE OBSERVER BOX II 
For more information call 3700 or 

NOTRE DAME,IND.
drop by the 
46556
Social Commission Office after 3:00 pm 
A St. Mary's Girl will represent N.D. at the Cotton Bowl in Dallas.Miss Notre Dame She and her escort will be the guests of the Cotton Bowl Committee. Lodging, meals and 
-entertainment will be provided bv THEM. Transportation equivalent to the fare of a round trip from South Bend to Dallas will be provided for Miss Notre Dame ONLY.



at the 
lf you would like to be MISS NOTRE DAME, . -send a picture with your name, address, and telephone number to the Student Umon Social Commission -Box 427, or bring it to room 4C LaFortune Student Center. 
COTTON BOWL. DEADLINE is 2 P.M. Friday -December 5, 1969 , Voting will be FRIDAY NIGHT in 'the dining halls. _ 
-Another ~ervice of your STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION.
Dec. 30 & 31 and Jan. 1 
Entries may be submitted by any ND or St. Mary's student 

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1969 
THE OBSERVER 
PAGE 3 
Agnew again 
'Outspoken minority' creates credibility gap 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Vice but to what other people say could accomplish 'peace in our President Spiro T. Agnew said you meant." time,' but we say to the next yesterday that hard headed "There's something very generation-we are just as much political protests by an definitely wrong in two sides concerned with peace in your "outspoken minority" has shut missing each other's point," time. We refuse to accept a off rational two way discussion Agnew said in his speech to a solution that says 'peace of America's problems. White House conference of now-pay later' because it's our 
"That refusal to approach an governors. "That is why what chi I d ren-t he younger issue with an open mind, that should be a meaningful dialogue generation-who would have to refusal to entertain a spirit of has become a cacaphony of pay later the price of surrender compromise-that is what is meaningless monologues." now." building barriers between the With President Nixon sitting Agnew, who shook hands young and the not so young, in the front row, Agnew also with Nixon after his speech, said between the outspoken minority renewed his attack against those the "outspoken minority" was and the soft spoken majority," who protest against the engaged in "politics of protest" Agnew said. administration's policy of and he listed these "Ten 
·'That is the barrier we must' gradual withdrawal from Commandments of Protest." begin to dismantle-from both Vietnam. "Thou shalt not allow thy sides." "If America were to cut and opponent to speak; thou shalt 
The vice president said those run," he said, "we would be not set forth a program of thine who oppose his recent criticisms cutting the chances for peace own; thou shalt not trust of antiwar demonstrators and and running out on the children anybody over 30; thou shalt not news coverage by the press and in school today who would have honor thy father or thy mother; television are engaged in a to fight a war tomorrow... thou shalt not heed the lessons "ricochet rhetoric-when people: "By following the path of of history; thou shalt not write do not respond to what is said, appeasement, this generation anything longer than a slogan; 
•
"'ficket requests pouring 1n 
.we. started getting $7, the same price as that oi a apphcatwns back on M~nday regula._r season game ticket. and already we are 4,600 tickets One thousand tickets are in the hole," said Mr..Don being held for students. They Bouffard, N~tre Da~e. Ticket will go on sale on a first come, Manager, while ex~lammg the first served basis at the Athletic procedures concernmg Cotton . d c n c ti·on Center Box 
. k li . an o vo a thou shalt not present a 
shalt not ask for forgiveness for
negotiable demand; thou shalt 
thy transgressions, rather thou 
not accept any establishment 
shalt demand amnesty for 
idea; thou shalt not revere any 
them." 
but totalitarian heroes; thou 
Pollution confab slated 
This conference is the "open An all day conference ex-to the public" rerun of the ploring the menace of pollution closed Seminar held November from different points of view 12 and 13. This Seminar was will be held at the Library Aud-attended by invited faculty and itorium Thursday, December 11. students and the delegated exec-The conference will consist of utives of the corporations which five ninety minute panel discus-are sponsoring the program. sions. Dr. Frederick Rossini will Eight major corporations-six open the conference at eight and midwestern and two from New will preside over a discussion York-are paying for and partici­concerning the "Geological pating in a series of three semi-Overview" and dealing with pol-nars. All of the seminars will lution in the earth's crust. Fol-deal with the problems of cities. lowing discussions will consider Professor William Sexton is in the "Fresh Water Crisis" and charge of the program which "Pollution and Life". Drs. James enlists the voluntary aid of fac-Massey and Ralph Thorson will ulty in many different disci­turn the methods of engineering plines in an effort to expose and biology on the subject. meaningful questions and 
The afternoon session will t-a_n_s::-w::-e-rs_.__~------~ 
treat the roles of corporate House for Rent responsibility and legislation. Chairmen of these panels are new I y decorated 4 Professors Robert Anthony and bedrooms -2 living rooms-2 
William Sexton. Dean Lawless of full baths -fully carpeted ­the Law school will be on hand Grad students only for the legislation panel. contact AI Brasseur 
289-2463
I
Bow he et app caho~s. Office according to the Mr. Bouffard explamed that f II 0 1 · schedule 
U · · · d I 2 000 ° w n g · 
t~e mvemty receive ' Seniors-Tuesday, Dec. 9; 

'"-,Uusc JYt"stoll.j~ .
t~ckets. from the C~tton Bowl Juniors, Graduate and Law Committee. ~he tickets ~re Students-Wednesday, Dec. I0; 
Craftsmen in Optics
all.ol~e? acc.ordmg to. th~e.e major Sophomores-Thurs., Dec. • 11; 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES
pnonties.. fhese pnontles are: and Freshmen-Friday, Dec. 12. 
AND CONTACT LENSES-­
season ticket holders, alu~m Students may purchase one 
• 
THE SHERLAND BLDG.
and parents of students who hve . 
within an 18 state area around reserved seat ticket at $3.50. 
132 S. MICHIGAN ST.
Mr. Donald E. Bouffard
Dallas, and students. Members of I.D. ~ards must be presented at 
Central 2-1468 
the first two groups were sent the time of pu~chase. 15,000 and 18,000 tickets. The application blanks by mail which S He h explamed,, thfat the rest go to Cotton Bowl 
TJ.cJl~JJJSe o}Vt$iOJt ~. 
would allow them four tickets 0 u t west '--0 n e renee stockholders and to the general
representative receives between 
Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.·-Chicago
public.
each. The price of each ticket is 
•
Draft servtce opens 
Tonight Dec. 4 7:00pm
by Shawn Hill coacerning the draft.
A new draft counseling service 
Yarborough feels that the
has "'ade its appearance on the 
Two
counseling service is especiallyNotre Dame campus. This useful now that the draft lotteryorganization, the idea of seniors l)as made history. 
Mike Yarborough and Tom ""• At the present the Draft 
PEACE CORPS
McCloskey, is headed by ten ND Counseling Service is without aand SMC students and began permanent office. They are stillwith a workshop in South Bend going through the red tape of
the weekend of Nov. I. This securing a room in La Fortune
workshop was reported on 
PR£5£NTATIONS:
Student Center. Their temporary The purpose of the office is Room 206 Dillon Hall. organization is as the name There will be someone on duty 
previously in the Observer. 
1. 'Opportunities for Science and Engineering Graduates
there Sunday through Thursday concerning the draft. In the 
implies, to counsel students nights from 7:30 to II :00 p.m. 
in the Peace Corps '.
interview for this article, Mike You may call 283-1657 for an Yarborough stressed that this 
interview or simply drop by organization is not simply for· during business hours. If you are 
Tunisian Stereo Slide Show and Discussion. 
the benefit of draft dodgers or Number 200 and wondering conscientious objectors but for 
what to do now, perhaps the all students who have some Draft Counseling Service could 
Engineering Aud. Room 303 
be of some help.
question they want answered 
2. Peace Corps Film: 'CONFRONTATION '
Crawford made advisor 
followed by discussion.
lottery,"Crawford concluded. The Youth Advisory 
c?ntinued from page I 
hours. The entire southern group Commihee, Crawford said, will-boycotted the meeting because 
Center for Continuing Education
meet to press foi further reforms they were opposed to anythiny when Senate Armed Services 
Audio-Visual Theater
that even smelled like a protest," Committee meets next year.
Crawford said. 
"But we did come out of the meeting with some resolutions. We agreed to press for a number 
Engineering and Science Juniors 
of changes in the draft system ~ncluding better legal advice for r 
C.O.'s, free advice financed by the government with competent 
Chairmen needed for Junior Parents'-Son Weekend.
lawyers to be appointed by the courts to defend the objectors. We also advocated a sele,tivP. 
CONTACT: Rich Llquantl
C. 0. bill and in general 
expressed a desire for far greater 
ext. 8953 ~59 Zahm
draft reform than the simple 
----------------------------------~ 

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1969
THE OBSERJJER.
PAGE 4 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
.FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3. 1966 

Tim O'Meilia 
Which game? 
He would rather have been in Miami for New Year's, he thought, as he watched the crowd file into the Cotton BowL He didn't dislike Dallas or the people but Miami had better weather, better hotels, and better-looking girls. Miami lived off its visitors: filled you with as much booze and luxury as you could pay for. In Dallas they would rather win the damn football game than fill your glass. 
He watched the smoke curl up from the fat, ugly cigar of the priest sitting to his left in the press box. It didn't seem to bother the old priest that they were in Dallas instead of Miami, but then he never knew where he was after a few drinks anyway. His head ached and he remembered the party of the previous night when the old priest had kissed the waitress at midnight. The waitress was indignant but everyone else had laughed. The university's administrative officials all plowed and kissing waitresses. It was ludicrous. But it didn't surprise him anymore. He had learned quickly enough after the university had hired him the difference between image and reality, Those roman collars were easy enough to come by. But they always came off at night. 
The stench of the cigar began to reach him as he watched the old priest make bets with the slow-talking Texas sports-writers. They were sure the Steers would cream Notre Dame as badly as they had Arkansas. He really didn't much care himself who won; he would have much rather have been in Miami. 
His thrill would come in a few months as he and a few other assistants would watch Father Joyce open the certified letter from the Cotton Bowl committee which would contain a check for more than $300,000. So simple. Play a football game and drink your brains out, then figure out what to do with more than a quarter of a million dollars. The game was so easy if you were smart enough to figure out the rules. 
He had often thought of what the university would do with the 
money. How ironic. These loudmouth red-neck Texans would pay 
Notre Dame enough money to buy a few more minority group 
members. He frowned: he wasn't sure who was winning that game. 
He looked down into the crowd and spotted what could have only been some Notre Dame students. Drunk and wearing Notre Dame jackets and singing the Victory March. The same Victory March he had sung )::Cars before when Notre Dame was a very different ?lac_e. The place had changed a lot since he had been a student but It still sang the same old song. No matter how many times he heard it he still liked it. 
The students didn't seem to be hungover. The harder they bitched about the Lone Star beer, the harder they drank. Not much different from the old priest. The story was that the old man cured his hangovers with his second chalice-full of wine at mass. No, neither the students nor the old priest seemed to have hangovers. Not much difference at all. 
He watched the captains march out on the field for the coin toss. The Texas captains had their helmets off. He could see their hair was neatly in place. Their burnt orange jersies and white pants somehow made them seem sleek and powerful. The Notre Dame captains looked awkward lumbering out there with their helmetii on and their blue stockings. Clumsy and out of place. 
The Cotton Bowl queen and the eight princesses caught his eye. They were escorted onto the field to watch the toss. They looked very much alike from where he sat. All wore wide smiles and small crowns that glinted in the sun. 
He looked for Miss Notre Dame. He spotted her immediately. She was last in line and most definitely did not look like the rest despite crown. She was shorter than the rest and her hair was a dull brown. From what he could see, she hadn't much of a figure, either. He felt a bit ashamed. 
He glanced from the awkward captains to the shabby-looking Cinderella; some students had wanted to name her Miss Notre Dame and St. Mary's Community. His face reddened. Why couldn't Notre Dame play the game as well as these Texas hicks? 
He heard the 'Eyes of Texas' being played and suddenly he cared very much who won the game. At once he knew what he wanted to do more than anything. He wanted to buy Miss Notre Dame some high heels, a blonde wig, and a padded bra. 
The opinions in the editorials, news analyses and columns of The Observer are solely those of the authors and editors f The Observer and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their ad· ministrations, faculty or student bpdies. 

1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111" 
~ Jim Holsinger ~ 
-
• . •-.
--. 
~ Picking dates ~ 
a :
• 
Many Notre Dame students are happy with the lottery method of draft selection as evidenced by their comments in yesterday's Observer. They believe the lottery is just, or at least more equitable than the old system. Many students support the system because they believe it puts an end to the guesswork of planning a career. If men must be drafted it probably is more fair to choose them at random, and thl! new system does let a young man know where he stands in the selective service line. 
But there are also many students who have been fooled by what they see as an end to confusion and protest over the morality of the draft. And many clear thinking students who have been silenced by the luck of a happy birthday. 
A small minority even thinks the whole idea may be unfair, but is unconcerned. The Observer quoted an anonymous Notre Dame stu~ent yesterday who said, "What do I think about the lottery? N0thing really, I got a good number, I don't care anymore. H may be unfair to some, but me, I'm in the clear." 
According to last \fonday's lineup, I too am among those born on the right day. In fact, no one had a better birthday, and no one would be happier than I to forget about the draft altogether and to wfit in the safe 366th place for the war to end. But Jet us not be hypocrites. Let us not be fooled. The immunity of a third of the people doesn't kill the disease in an the others. 
Can we judge the justice of a lottery system by the orlds we might be called? The lottery system may be more fair than the old system which picked only the people who could not or would not shuffle fast enough or often enough to avoid it. But in eif1er case, young men are still being taken away from constructive Iivas and ordered to i;:ill. 
Perhaps tJ:e whole lottery system is only an attempt by the Nixon administration to relieve the pressure placed on the selective service system in recent times by men who believe in peace and the end of armies. The only peace that results from pulling numbers from a fishbowl is peace of mind for Richard Nixon and peace of mind for those born under a lucky star. Richard Nixon has consistently turned a deaf ear to the voices of those people in America who call for an end to the war, and now :1e is attempting to appease the American people with a new method for sending young men to war. I continue to condemn the Nixon administration for its failure to face the demands for peace in Vietnam. 
But what of Nixon's projected volunteer army? Many Americans claim that there would be no need for a draft if we had a well trained volunteer army. Is the world any closer to peace when trained volunteers do the killing? Is a soldier less dead when he volunteers for service? There would also be no need for the draft if there weren't any war. 
Let's pick a date for ending the war. 
Sports Editor: Mike PavlinDavid Breen, Business Manager Features Editor: Dave S1auffer
Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. News Editor: Glen Corso SMC News Editor: Prudence Wear Night Editor: Jim HolsingerAssociate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Layout: Dan Shaw, Susie Bury,Ann Conway, Laura Haferd Mary Ellen Burke, Bro. Patrick
and Jeanne Sweenv Layout Editor: Mary Beth 
Carney Crimmins 
Headlines: Rich Smith, Frank Photo Editor: Mike Murphy Wieqand 
....
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1969 PAGE 5
THE OBSERIIDt 
Arians finish season 16-6-9; clinch pennant! 
by Pete Peterson The house of Mars was the unlikely s~.:ene for a victory party Monday night after the Arian Rams handed the Washington Kangaroos a stunning 345 point loss to din~.:h the pennant and finish their fine season with a 16-6-9 record. Team Captain Tom "Don't tread on me" Jefferson, emerging from a dunking in the shower room, said, "We opened with an impressive 334 point win over the Kangaroos, and we never let up. Sure, we had some bad games; we had a 14-point whallopping on the lith of April, but the next day we came back with a smashing 346-our best of the season." Asked if his team would participate in any post-season bowl games, "Treads" laughed, "Believe me, fella, that is one tradition we have no intention of breaking. We're pretty happy with the pennant, and I think we'll just sit tight." In another part of the same House, the atmosphere was more subdued. The Scorpios were feeling the sting of defeat, having finished in the cellar with a 5-12-12 season. Captain Will Rogers stated, "It hurt, especially to be in the same house as the Rams. But of course, they use the house by day, we use it by night. The house of Mars at night...well, we tried. If only the season could have been held at a different time of day ... Morale was a factor too. No girl cheerleaders for this team-Venus is exiled by our team. Her team, the Fish, finished third, and they had the fewest losses. I guess it does make a difference. Ah, well, wait until next year!" In other action, the Gemini Twins clinched second place with a powerful 360-point victory over the 'Roos. Team captain Jeff Davis, who scored 301 points for the Twins, expressed satisfaction with a fine season which inducted victories of 3 26, 361, 357, 356, 335, and 341 points, and a league leading 366 pointer, on their 
Pis~.:t:s Captain George Washington, 
who batted 290 in for the Fish, ~.:redited 
team mascot Liz Taylor with creating 
necessary morale for the team. The Fish 
finished third, sparked by "Buffalo" Bill 
Cody's impressive 365 record. 
A 3 52-point season by player-coach 
Confuscius lead the Virgins to a 8-12-11 
season, edging out the Bulls for fourth 
place, whkh led Bull ~.:aptain Casey Jones 
to make a few ~.:hoice ~.:omments: "This is 
absurd. Under any normal scoring system 
we'd have beaten them out and a few 
more. I don't see how a team can go 
12-10-8 and only finish fifth." 
Jones alluded to the fact that the 
scoring system used by the league is patterned after that of the National Hockt:y league, whereby a win counts as two points, a tie as one point, and a loss as no points. Prior to the season, this was judged not only the fairest rating system, but also the most appropriate. It's usc, however, irked not only Bull leader Jones, but also Libra captain Leif "the Lucky" Erikson, whose Librans finished sixth despite a 8-7 win-loss tally. Their 16 ties were what swung the balance. 
Team captain Babe Ruth pulled in a 347 victory for the Aquarians, as team chaplain Frank De Salles came through with a 349, but the Aquarians were showing their age, finishing a mediocre seventh with a mediocre 9-11-12 record. "We aren't washed up yet," shouted Abe Lincoln, but Ruth sent him to the showers after the Giant Killer 
scored a feeble 68. 
The Moon Children credited their leader Daniel with placing them one steo above the Lions. Lion trainer F. Scott Key scoffed, "Right, and him batting a big 27. Maybe that non-violence is how he figures it." 
Daniel Webster, captain of the tenth place Goats announced that following a December 26th 173-point tie, Goat player Steph Martyr was being fined 
~~:r::::~:W::~:::I::Z:JA~~:?:~§:?:::::::::::::::::::::::::===========:=:=:=:============~=~:g2::::::~:~?::~~:i:?::~1::::~~~~=~=~~=~====~l::1:g~}::::~~;~: 
~ 
. 
l1l! l1i1
Marilyn Becker 
~ I 
ll~~ Orange and green ~l~ 
A bus trip through midland America on your way back to school from Thanksgiving vacation is just--dismal! Take it from us. We've been there and we know. 
To begin with, there's the bus station. Seeing that we'd been there before, we didn't even have the benefit of illusions to cheer us up on our way downtown. We knew what a crowded, damp, dingy, dirty room we were in for; what we did find vaguely depressing, however, was the fact that this, being the largest station on our route, would probably be (and was) the best we would see! Midland America, we'd like to register a complaint. 
We could being with the fact that it's impossible to find a seat on any bus leaVing our home town for any other city where one might possibly make connec­tions to get to South Bend. Arriving at the bus station on time (always a perilous thing to do), we were cheerfully sold full-price ticket for the already full bus, a ticket, we might add, the prize of which can only be refunded by engaging in voluminous correspondence with the Greyhound Bus !lome Offices in Cleveland, Ohio, reportedly. 
We presently found ourselves at the end of a line of about two hundred and sixty people (well, it was really nearer forty people) waiting to get on the thirty-five seat Scenicruiser with the muddy, smudged-up windows. Did we forget to mention that there were already twenty people sitting on it from a previous incarnation at a bus stop? 
We did some quick calculations. Then we sat down on our suitcase and began to weep quietly. Luckily the relatives who had brought us to this cold, grey c·xcuse for a travelers' oasis were still around; in the face of despair to drive us in their car on the first leg of the journey, to a city some seventy miles away. 
The theory behind this move was to beat the original full bus to the transit point; beat it we certainly did. When the bus to South Bend pulled out of this second station, we had not yet seen the original bus on which, but for the grace of you-know-who, we would have been riding. 
Heaving a great sigh of relief to be finally safely on our way. we settled down to enjoy the pleasures of a projected six-hour-and-ten-minute ride through beautiful rural Indiana. What fun. 
Have you any idea how ugly rural America (at least along the bus routes) has become'! If we had to find one word to describe it, it would have to be banal. And that's a shame, because those are real human people living there, people who just want beauty, and laughter, and excitement in their lives. Instead, they've got unpaved (virtually) roads, and boring all-alike early-American-practical-houses, 
and ugly courthouses in the cente" of town surrounded by tanks and iron soldiers, and chartreuse vinyl pine boughs strung up their main street, from which dangle all-the-same-from-town-to-town Day-glo Christmas balls. 
We would like to suggest that there is no more depressing sight than a garish green garland dangling misplaced orangish balls, with a few fushia bells in an effort to be Christmasy, offset by a windy, dirty, barren, commerical street. More sad, more horrifying, more frightening, yes: more depressing, no. 
But, of course, we even"tually made it back to South Bend and to school. We left the far backrcaches of the American Dream behind us, and took up our school life (as distinct from our home life) where we had left it a week before. And only occasionally are we bothered by the kind of sterile nightmare world we've seen once or twice, once occasionally when we sec that particular shade of mediocre green, that one washed-out and banal shade of orange. 

how our team can expect to win when our players keep getting stoned before the games." 
Sagitarrian captain Andrew Apostle was unavailable for comment after the strung-vut Archers bowed to a 5-11-12, eleventh place ranking. The final statistics are as follows: 
W  L  T  Pts  
Arians  16  6  9  41  
Geminians  17  8  6  40  
Pisceans  14  5  10  38  
Virgoans  8  12  11  37  
Taurians  12  10  8  32  
Librans  8  7  16  32  
Aquarians  9  11  12  30  

Cancerians 11 13 7 29 Leonines 10 12 9 29
Victorious Arian captain Thomas 
Capricomians 6 12 12 24
"Treads" Jefferson, in a 1775 Obser­
Sagittarians 5 11 12 22 ver file photo. Scorpions 5 12 12 22 
... and the salesman was good 
by John Stupp 
Jn the beginning was the salesman, and the salesman was good... 
Salesman is a relatively new film on the American scene and it has only recently filtered into the Midwest via the recent Chicago International Film Festival where it was one of the most acclaimed films in the series. The film is the first effort of a directorial team of brothers, Albert and David Maysles, and is shot in the Cinema 
Verite style made somewhat popular by Godard and the New York school of cameramen including Richard Leacock and D.A. Pennybaker (Don't Look Back, Beyond the Law, Monterey Pop). The source of this "direct cinema" impulse is the new mobility in film equipment. Lighter and easier sound synchronization equipment and lighter cameras have made it possible for even two-man film crews to explore dimensions of reality literally "in the street" rather than in artificial studio settings. This is of course the way Salesman was made, one brother on sound, and the other filming with a modified Auricon camera. 
The four main characters in Salesman have stepped right out of mythical America: The Badger, The Gipper, The Rabbit, The Bull. Paul Brennan, Charlie McDevitt, Jimmy Baker, Ray Martos. Their job -to sell the Word of God, in nylon-bound, plastic-coJted packages of $49.95, "washable and outlasts leather 4 to 1." Faithful servants of the Chicago-based Mid-America Bible Company, they range from slush sunk Boston down to the legs spread aura of Miami beach. Selling the Gospels to all nations. Stepping in and out of Cicero­Parma-Brooklyn flats, flashing down sub­urban avenues of all-night motels, blink­ing and garishly greasy food eaten on the run, Arabia Ave., Sesame St., Sharazad Boulevard ... another door, the pitch, the handshake, the smile, " ...is your mother home?", the convincing gesture, the tim­
ing, how long can the tempo last? 

Paul Brennan is having his doubts, the same fears we all experience. He is losing his faith in the product -himself. The Bible is merely external. The selling is in selling yourself. To the draft board, to 
the graduate school, to the people we meet, we are constantly selling ourselves, all the time we have faith in our product, 
we move in a milieu of confidence, we keep the tempo moving. 
But Paul Brennan is having his doubts, and there comes a time when we may have our own doubts, the blown sales­pitch, the missed harrangue, the self-pity, the new cynicism, the appeal to humiliat­ing charity...its tough to see a real Paul Brennan go down raw before our eyes, the nakedness of failure all too embarrass­ing to endure because it's real without the mask of a fictional frame. Emasculation, castration, the down-hill ride pathetically covered with some scraps of dignity. The first uneasy humming, the first doubts casually thrown aside. "There are many people who know the Bible. There are many people who can quote from the Bible. But you're somewhat different..." The uneasy re-occurance of self­doubt...the loser. 
"The Best seller in the World is the Bible, for one reason: It's the greatest piece of literature of all time. It's really tremendous, isn't it? llere are the Shep­herds and the Three Kings. The Flight into Egypt. The Childhood of Jesus ... " Paul Brennan is slipping. Paul Brennan is hurting. The problem Paul Brennan agonizes over is the impact of Salesman, the everyday merchantile transaction elevated to the heights of metaphor. 
Salesman is being screened at Washing­ton Hall, Sat. & Sun. at 2 & 8 P.M. It is of course another fine offering from Cinema '70. 
"The Bible runs as little as $49.95. And we have three plans on it. Cash, C.O.D., and also they have a little Catho­lic honor plan. Which plan, which plan would be best for you, A, B, or C?... " 
THE OBSERVER. THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1969
PAGE 6 
Letters to the Ed itor 
Attacks hard line one I am surprised to see The Fr. Hesburgh's now famous let­submit that this attempt at God is the walrus Observer take. The two matters ter in that it implicitly places the prophesy will soon be disproved, (Dow's complicity and students' entire burden for a moral like maybe next Monday. If the 
rights) are inextricably bound community and its concomitant University kicks out ten of its 
Editor:
Editor: together and any attempt to laws, obligations and prohibi­members for being too moral to If you play Teddy Hesburgh's
Thursday's editorial in sup­tions upon the students as back up their beliefs with action, 
separate them is an attempt to new disk backwards at 78 rpm,
port of the University's stand though it were not possible that it is more than a mere possiblili­
form absolute answers to relative one distinctly hears the words
against those participants in the the university itself or its admin­
moral questions, ,lin attempt to ty that more will (voluntarily) 
•4 "God is Dead." 
Dow-CIA demonstration who istration might be involved in follow.
say that no student has, under Patrick Henry Buckley 
chose to block entrance to the the institutional immoralities of
any circumstances, the right to 430 Howard
recruiters was an exercise in racism, weaponry, peddling, etc.
"forcibly prohibit a job inter­Yours in Notre Dame 
sophistry and shallow thinking Students are to be soundly
view". Surely, though, you can­Michael Costello 
that cannot go unanswered. It thrashed for their misdeeds but
not believe that and must con­139 Lyons 
was indeed disheartening that who, pray tell, is going to give. · Praises parodies? 
cede the point established in the
the student newspaper (or per­the University or its administra­
oft-repeated What would-you­Editor: 
haps only its editor-it is becom­tion 1 5 minutes of meditation?
do-if-Hitler-was-using-the­Columnist Ed Roickle's week­
ing hard to tell) would so quick­You say nothing about the
u n i v e r s i ties-to-recruit-gas­ly parodies on left-wing block­
ly and callously shrug off the arbitrariness of the selection of
chamber-attendants? analogy. 
ishness are brilliant. Keep it up!
expulsion of its fellow students. the ten violators, an arbitrariness Sincerely,One would have hoped to see, at that bespeaks a possible attempt
Thus the question you pose is Carl T. Berkhoutthe very least, some dissent from to isolate and crush the more
a false one and all your appeals 730 E. Corby Blvd.the severity of the punishment if radical leaders a la t he Chicago
to "reason" and "logic" and South Bend not a questioning of the law's Conspiracy.
"rational dialogue" prove
legality. 
deficient. What we must ask is whether, in this particular case, a 
You say the demonstrators Instead, though, we are given were trying to force an Ten explain decision 
moral outrage which can no 
a rehash of the old lawandorder "opinion" upon the student
longer be rectified by rationalline-a line which, I readily dialogue has been committed body. This is patently untrue, as Editor: admit, seems eminently just and The following statement was
and, if so, what one ought to do anyone (and this most certainly
rational once we have accepted must include the protestors) presented to the University
about it. It is indeed the killing
the original tenets that "The who has seen how impossible Court Tuesday morning explain­
(why you put quotation marks 
'killing' by Dow Chemical is this sort of attempting to make Right on, Bill ing the decision of ·the ten stu­
around that word is beyond me­
another matter in itself. The dents expelled or suspended to
after all it is real people who are the student body confront "the 
issue is whether the group of Editor: go before the Appeals Board
dying) by Dow Chemical that is burning issues of the day" as I protestors had the right to block believe Fr. Hesburgh once I have received a copy of your rather than the University Court. 
at stake here. 
the entrance to their room be­November 19th issue with Bill
termed them, not forcibly mold cause of their disagreement with If you would permit me the their opinions. Turner's comments on Son "The means are the ends inDow". House and me.
space, there are a few more embryo. It is necessary to incar­points I should like to quickly • Finally, you take comfort in nate the ends in the means.,
But the whole question can­
bring up. Mr. Turner spoke of his feel­
thinking that the "remaining one There is an inviolable connectionnot and must not be divided into 
hundred" of the demonstrators ings when he discovered that his between means and ends. Ourtwo "matters" at all. This is far 
The thrust of your editorial is best African dashiki came from
"will still be here to argue and end, was and is Peace, not hate;too simplistic an approach and discouragingly similar to that of discuss and express their point Rosenbaum's Haberdashery. Love, not violence; Community, 
HOMECOMING 
of view to the rest of the not alienation. We, therefore, community". Putting aside for Don't be dismayed, Mr. find it impossible to participate the moment the callousness of Turner. After all, when you care in the proceeding of this Court. this statement ("so what if we enough to send the very best ... For us, who have voluntarilyPictures may be picked up in knock off a few militants-we'll accepted suffering and the possi­the Social Commission Office still have enough around to keep Right on yourself, bility of future suffering in order 



our discussions lively"), may I Dick Waterman to help bring to a climax Notre
From 3·-5 Thurs. & Fri. 
Dame's complicity with the des­
.. ~. -·~ !·~ :~~~*:..:-:.:.:·»:·:-!·:·!·:·:·:·::!"~.·:·:·:::~ 
truction of men, women and
Sunshine Festival 
children around the world, it would be death to participate in 
~11 
and thereby incarnate in our
Friday Dec. 5 9pm
~~~ 
own persons, .the "spirit" of the
..•
Rev.lon ;:: 
SLC on Monday, November 24
Stepan Center 
and the University Court on
• I 
Wednesday, November 26, 1969.
MUSIC BY: First Friday 
If we were to cooperate with the Pilot-Free Form Jam
lni'-T~nts :~l 
SLC and the University Court in
L'Y~ l~ 
this matter, we feel we would be
plus Light Show 
incarnating not the living truth
by Greater a!orth Bay Alchemical Co. 
of the spirit of the life of Jesus
~llnti•-Jlc·ne ~
..n. ~ ::: 
sponsored by'Student Union Social Commission 
Christ, but rather the dead lie of the spirit of a power politics morality, of self interest. Peace,
~ -Europe $189 
Love and Community can not flow from this latter spirit.
Spot I 
Round Trip Jet 
"It is our feeling that this
Co
~TAr'! 1~~ University Charter's 6th Annual Charter Flight Series 
court will be bogged down with 
, 'Y '-" t~onsored by Notre Dame, St. Marys's-Students International 
semantics and proceed in a "moot Court" fashion. We feel a more informed proceeding is in­valuable because of the scope of human emotions and individual
This smooth little cream-in-a-tube just took 
I ~:~0~:~;;:,~:::~::::~:-by Metro Ai"'o" 
moral convictions involved. The 
··· $50 deposit, final payment in March 
adversary system will not lend
the ~ugly' out of fighting acne. It spot-treats jji cancellation privileges until day of departure 
itself to the problem at hand and conceals acne pimples, helps them dry ::: complete range of travel services 
which may prove fatal to our conception of community.
and heal fast. In 9 shades, so you can match .,;,;1. our Ann Arbor office can book you into student priced hotels before you leave, and our London office will look after all your needs while 
your skin coloring perfectly. It stays dry, :.~.:.::.:.·. youJ are in EturAope st k Oet 't/L d t .t $ 
"We resign our right to trial stays put. Won't cake, flake or smear. And ' -une 26 0 ugu 26 -8 wee s rol on on10e rol .......... . 229 
before the University Court, and 
accept immediately the jurisdic­
:::: 
-June 11 to July 27-6 weeks N.Y./London/N.Y ......................... $189
it conceals any little flaw so perfectly, it's 111 
tion of the. Appeals Court." 
almost like patting on a beautiful new skin! ··· Open only to Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, faculty, ~ staffand immediate families 
The Notre Dame Ten
NEWN"''TURALWONDER :~
" :~ $50 Deposit Reserves Seats 
~ANTI-ACNE SPOT COVER' t Notre Dame Student ~11 service Commission St. Mary's Contact Available at: i:i 4 E. Lafortune Student Center St. Mary's Student Services 
Bermuda '70
t 283-7757 Organization 
St. Mary's College Bookstore :;:
. ::: 
.. General Meeting 
Met Club 
l;:o:•···········;z.•;•;•;•;•;•;•;·;·;•;•:•;•:•:•:•:•:•;•;•;•;•;•;·.:·:·:·:···:···:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·;·;·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·.·ffi. Thurs. 7:30 Rm. 118 'Nie:=u:....:.;w:...:l.=.a:.:.nd=--~'-....!.---------_.J 


THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1969 THE OBSERVER 
PAGE 7 
Nixon urges understanding of drugs 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-President Nixon urged the nation's governors yesterday to wage a community campaign against growing drug abuse by stressing "more information, more understanding" rather than harsher criminal penalties. 
Nixon and high administration officials addressing a daylong conferellce ror 4 1 governors, their wives and Warning that America's spiritchildren expressed alarm at the 
is threatened with injury, Nixon
high incidence of use of said: "All of us must go back to
marijuana and other illicit drugs, especially among the young. 
our communities and wage a campaign, a campaign of
"I first thought the answer was more penalties," the 
education and information that President said, "but when you will reach all the people of our are talking about 13 and 14 year states, because that campaign.. .is olds, penalties are not the probably more important than answer. .. the answer is more the criminal penalties." 
information, more The President's remarks were understanding." in line with the administration's plan to overhaul federal drug 
Mardi Gras emphasis on thecity 
The Mardi Gras committee chairman, Dave Dewan revealed that the awareness of the South Bend Community concerning Mardi Gras activities will be emphasized in this year's Mardi Gras. In an interview, Dewan said that in the past South Bend was aware of only the carnival. 
Together with Pat Murphy, raffle chairman, Dewan is trying to get as many students as 
Kommers letter 
continued from page 2 
tions," wrote Burrell. 
"The action of the protesters 
was directed towards this univer­
sity as an institution to recall it 
to its institutional integrity," 
Burrell wrote. 
New vistas 
Kommers' letter represents 
the first attempt to present an 
organized and rational intellec­
tual counter to the arguments of 
supporters of the protesters. 
Kommers later said that his 
letter started the "kind of 
confrontation we need." 
lie warned that unless some 
basic amenities can be presented 
Lhe wrong kind of confrontation 
may result. "We must follow 
certain procedures in settling 
disputes, and that procedure 
stops short of blocking door­
ways," Kommers said. 
Dallas trip off 
continued from page 2 
dent Union trip's demise. Ac­cording to the Commissioner, several students illegally adver­tised projects to travel to Dallas without registering those pro­jects with the Student Union. 
Monnich also contended that the mobility of the student body handicapped trip attempts to run projects like the Cotton Bowl Trip. "Why would anyone fly down to Dallas if he could drive just as easily?" he asked. 
"We never seem to get any kind of interest in these projects at all," he continued, "except in the flights to O'Hare airport (in Chicago) and home." 
The Commissioner conceded 
that the Chicago-to-Dallas flight could be revived "if about twenty more people signed up in the next couple days," but characterized chances of such an occurance as "very dim." 
"They're really surprised in Ann Arbor," he commented, "They have five planeloads ready to go to the Rose Bowl, and they can't understand why we can't even fill one." 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester excep~ vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions ma•J be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
possible involved in the sale of 
Profits from the raffle will be the raffle tickets. Transportation given to Notre Dame Charities, will be provided over the 
which then distributes the weekend for those students who 
money to those charities which want to get an early start in 
t-he administration and student 
selling tickets. 
body feel are the most needy. 
There is a 20% commission on Dewan and Murphy are very tickets sold. Also, for every optimistic about the raffle, as book sold, a student receives a. Dewan summarized, "We think 
chance to win a grand student it (the raffle) will benefit prize. The first student prize is a everyone--South Bend, the Triul)lph Spitfire, followed by a students, the administration, long list of worthy prizes. and, of course, the charities". 
laws to provide lighter penalties for possession of illicit drugs and to give police broader legal authority to move against users. 
In this regard, Attorney General John N. Mitchell proposed a model state Jaw that would give police "no knock" authority to enter suspected premises for a search warrant for illegal drugs. It would also permit nighttime searches if they have "probable cause" to suspect illegal narcotics on the premises, rather than positive evidence now required under federal and many state laws. Penalties would be left to the 
discretion of  the  states.  The  
proposed  federal  reform  
legislation,  after  which  the  

model state law was fashioned,
would classify mere possession 0f mariiuana and other illicit 
drugs as a misdemeanor rathe; than a felony. The maximum penalty for a first offense would be a year in jail and a $5,000 fine, rather than the present mandatory sentence of five to twenty years' imprisonment. 
Mitchell stressed the importance of coordinated state action, noting that in llJ68 there were 162,177 state and local narcotic arrest compared to 4,000 federal cases. John E. Ingersoll, director of 
the  Bureau  of  Narcotics  and  
Dangerous  Drugs,  said  the  
Departments  of  Justice  and  

Health, Education and Welfare planned a prime time mass media . campaign • to try to discourage drug use, which he 
said had become "a way of life among youths " 
~***1r****** To -NIT£ ••••••1.(••••-~.tn .... 
SMC N ite at the Senior Bar 
··{FAILUREJ· 
You'll never get anywhere without it. 
Nothing helps a young engineer's career like being given a challenge. Which is another way of saying a chance to fail now and then. To make his own mistakes. 
At Western Electric we give our newly recruited engineers responsibility almost immediately. They make their own de­cisions. Learn from their own errors. 
Don't get us wrong. We keep our demands reasonable enough so that our recruits can make their decisions at their own pace. But our thinking is, a man feels awfully good about even a small decision when it's his. 
If you're the type who'd like the chance to make your own moves, see our recruiter or write College Relations, 222 Broad­way, New York, N. Y. 10038. 
A lot of hard work never hurt anyone. 
@Western Electric 
MANUFACTURING &SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM AN EQUAl OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER . 
------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1969
PAGE 8 
Sid leads comeback on sprained ankle 
by Mike Pavlin 
Observer Sports Editor 
He came from nowhere. 
Sid Catlett, seen hobbling around campus Tuesday and expected to miss four games with a sprained ankle, came off the bench to spark a desperate Irish rally which carried ND to an 87-86 win over Michigan. 
Entering the game with 16:32 left and the Irish nine points down, the 6-8 forward hit three shots in a row as ND came from behind to wipe out a horrendous half and a fine individual performance by Wolverine Rudy Tomjanovich. 
For the Irish, it was an embarrassing first half. Predictably, the Wolverines came out running on all occasions. They also had an offense all ready for Johnny Dee's matching-zone defense. By virtue of quick passes, they were able to isolate men in the corners and then shoot or hit free men cutting underneath. Forwards Rod Ford and Rich Carter hit from the corners throughout the game. 
Notre Dame was plagued with a rash of fouls and turn-overs during the period and did not score a field goal until Jim 1-Iinga knocked one in at 17:54. "You know how it is," said Dee afterwards, "It's the first home game and the boys are tight. I told them, 'Why don't you loosen up and just play like you do in practice'. Then we get in foul trouble and I have to substitute." 
Although cold from the floor, 
the Irish cashed several offensive 
rebounds and managed to take a 
12-10 leai at 14:59. After a 
NOTRE DAME 
poor start, captain Austin Carr began scoring with a vengeance, mostly from underneath. His three-point plays at 8:34 and 
4:46 kept the Irish close and his 
jumper at 4:15 gave ND a 36-35 lead. But a streak of perfect free-throw shooting by the Wolverines and several Irish turnovers made a farce out of the remaining moments of the half, which ended with Michigan up 49-40. 
Carr had 20 points, but the Irish shot only 36% from the floor. Michigan hit 44% and 79% from the line. Tomjanovich and 

Don't tell the Michigan Wolverines that Sid Catlett has a sprained ankle-they won't believe it. 
MICHIGAN 
FG  FT  Rbds  Fl  Pts  
O'Connell  4-11  3-6  4  5  11  Henry  
Sinnott  0-2  0-0  0  0  0  Fife  
Carr  14-24 9-9  12  0  37  Carter  
Meehan  0-0  0-0  2  2  0  Bloodworth  
Hinga Jones  2-6 7-20  1-1 1-3  4 13  4 3  5 15  Frau mann Grabiec  
Catlett  3-5  0-0  5  2  6  Ford  
Gallagher Pleick  0-2 6-14  0-0 1-1  2 18  1 4  0 13  Hart Tomjanovich  
Ziznewski  0-0  0-0  0  0  0  TOTALS  
TOTALS  36-84 15-20  66  21  87  
FGs 1st Half  
FGs  1st Half  36%  Game 43%  FTs  1st Half  
FTs 1st Half  75%  Game 75%  

Ford had 15 and 14 points respectively_ Four Irishmen: Collis Jones, Hinga, John Pleick, and Mike O'Connell ended the half with three fouls apiece. 
As Catlett entered the contest, it began revolving around Tomjanovich. Hitting 30-foot set shots and beautiful tip-ins, he began drawing Irish defenders ·all over him, leaving men open at some spots. The Wolveril'tC lead reached 12 at 15:30, but with O'Connell putting together some great drives and Catlett scoring thrice, the Irish closed the gap to 73-65 at 10:57. 
And what about Catlett? "He played with a sprain I don't know how he did it," said Dee "He just kept saying he wanted to play, he wanted to play. I told him that it was a running-type ballgame and I didn't want him to hurt the ankle, but finally I said, 'Well, go in there and see what you can do'.'' 
Jones scored twice, Catlett blocked two Tomjanovich shots in a row' (which really put the 7,324 fans on their feet), Carr canned a jumper at 9:03 and iti was 74-71. Carter and Tomjanovich rallied the Wolverines with buckets, but Carr (having a fine shooting half) hit for eight points (two on fouls) to tie the game at 81-all at 5:20_ 
The Irish lead reached three after two more Carr free throws at I :32, but Rick Bloodworth put some life into Michigan with a basket at l :08. O'Connell and Bloodworth then traded foul 
shots, leaving the Irish in possession of the ball with 39 
FG  FT  Rbds  Fl  Pts  
1-3  1-2  1  5  3  
2-13  4-5  6  5  8  
9-16  1-2  3  1  19  
2-7  3-4  1  0  7  
0-0  0-0  0  0  0  
0-0  0-0  0  0  0  
8-16  5-7  10  2  21  
Q-0  0-0  0  0  0  
12-31 4-5  17  2  28  
34-86 18-25  44  15  86  
44%  Game 39%  
79%  Game 72%  

Notre Dame hockey statistics 
Player, Position, Hometown Phil Wittliff, Jr-W, Pt. Huron, Mich. Paul Regan, Fr-C, Scarborough, Out. John Noble, Fr-C, Toronto, Ont. Gary Little, Fr-W, Trail, B.C_ Kevin Hoene, So-C, Duluth, Minn. Jim Cordes, So-W, Farmington, Minn_ Joe Bonk, So-W, S. St. Paul, Minn. Bill Green, Fr-D, Roseville, Minn_ 
Pts 9 9 5 4 4 4 3 3 
John Womack, So-W, Thief Rvr Fls, Minn. 3 John Roselli, So-W, Duluth, Minn. 2 Jim Morin, So-D, St. Paul, Minn. 2 Mark Lontar, So-D, Eveleth, Minn. 1 Adam Ste masztnski, Fr-W, Niagara Fls, Ont. 1 Bruce Raskob, r-W, Saskatoon, Ont. 1 Mark Steinborn, Fr-D, Pt. Huron, Mich. 1 
Mike Bonk, Fr-D-W, S. St. Paul, Minn. Paul O'Neil, Jr-D, S. Boston, Mass. Mike Collins, Jr-D, Oak Park, IlL Ricky Cunha, Fr-C, Scituate, Mass. 
Notre Dame Opponents 
Goal Tenders Dick Tomasoni, So, Chisholm, Minn. Chris Cathcart, Fr, Guelph, Ont. 
Notre Dame Opponents 
Scoring by Periods 
Notre Dame 
Opponents 
1 0 0 0 
53 17 
Go  A sst  Ga  Pen  Min  
6  3  3  1  2  
4  s  3  2  4  
3  2  3  0  0  
3  1  3  5  10  
2  2  3  0  0  
2  2  2  0  0  
1  2  3  1  2  
0  3  3  2  4  
0  3  3  1  2  
2  0  3  2  4  
0  2  3  3  6  
1  0  3  0  0  
1  0  1  0  0  
1  0  3  1  s  
0  1  3  1  2  
0  1  3  0  0  
0  0  3  1  2  
0  0  1  0  0  
0  0  1  0  0  
26  27  3  20  43  
8  9  3  24  48  

Goal tending stal::-;  
Ga 3 0  Per 9 0  Sa 68 0  GA 8 0  Pet. .895 .000  Avg. 2.7 0.0  so 1 0  
3 3  9 9  68 121  8 26  .895 .823  2.7 8.7  1 0  
s 1  12 6  9 1  26 8  

seconds left and a one-point lead. 
Trying to dribble-out the clock, Jackie Meehan (O'Connell had fouled out) bounced the ball off his thigh and out of bounds. With 20 seconds left, the Wolverines worked the ball around, but Bloodworth rimmed the bu!;ket at :03 and that was that, 87-86. 
Undoubtedly, it was one of the finest halves ever played in the Convo. Gone were the mistakes (at least, much fewer than the first peridd), the fouls, and when it counted, ND was shooting one-on-one at the foul line_ Dee finally got his first unit together and they played well. 
Carr ended up with 37 points and Jones with 15. Pleick played the finest game of his career with 13 points, 18 rebounds (high in the game), and two assists_ It was ND's superior rebounding edge (66-44) which helped forge the comeback. 
Tomjanovich led Wolverine scoring with 28 points, while Ford (21) and Carter (19) played exceptional games. Michigan now stands 1-l on the season. 
A blistering 60-point second half propelled the Michigan frosh to an easy 104-82 win over Notre Dame in a preliminary game. The young Wolverines, led by Johnson (27) and Wilmore (20), had five men in double figures. High scorer in the game was ND's Don Silinski who had 32 points. 

Irish wrestling captain Keith Giron helped his squad to a convincing win over Valpo as he registered a win in the 126-pound class_ 
ND smashes Valpo 
Winning 9 of 10 matches, four on pins, the Notre Dame wrestling team opened their season with a convincing 33-5 victory over Valpariso University last night at the ACC. The Irish were clearly the superior team, outclassing Valparaiso com-, pletely and gave first-year coach Tom Mather a solid performance for so early in the season. 
Tom Ciaccio started the Irish off well by outpointing his opponent 13-3 in the 118 pound class and giving Notre Dame a 3-0 lead. Team points in wres­tling are awarded on the basis of thr~e points for a decision victory and five points for a pin. 
If the grapplers tie, each team is given two points. Captain Keith Giron provided all the other points Notre Dame was to need when he registered a first period pin in the I 26 pound class. John Maas (134) outpointed his man and the Irish rolled up two pins in succession in the fourth and 
fifth matches of the night as Ken 
Ryan  (142)  and  Bob  Habig  
(ISO)  each nailed  their  oppo­ 
nents  to  the  mat.  Tom  Powell  

kept up the team'swinning ways, barely gaining a decision in the 158 pound division. Seniors Jim Hansen ( 165) and Bill Hasbrook 
( 177) each won decision 
matches before Valparaiso notched their only team points of the night by virtue of a pin in the 190 pound class. Heavy­weight Eric Bottchner gained a 8-2 decision over his man in the final match. 
The Irish grapplers will next see action this coming Friday and Saturday when they travel to Rochester, New York, to compete in the Rochester Invita­tional Tournament. The Irish are defending champions of the tourney and Jim Hansen hopes to be able to fare as well in this year's competition as he did last year when he was named the to urn amen t 's outstanding w s 






