
VOL. IV, No. 48 Serving the Notre Dame and Sa{nt 1\-{ary ·.~ College ('ommuni~J' 
Senate names three to University Forum 
hy Steve Hoffman mutually channeling ideas be­
The Student Senate convened tween students and Adminis­
last evening in a special session tration." 
to consider the pressing issues "I believe that the University 
concerning the future of the Forum offers a great oppor­
Fieldhouse, and the University tunity to bring the entire com­
Forum. munity together for the first 
Ed McCartin, Chairman of the time," Joe Cottrell announced. 
University Forum Screening 

Com mittcc, presented his Com­Off-campus Senator Shaugh­
Ill it tee's recommendation of nessy stressed that "the students 
nine students considered best must be the catalysts of the 
equipped to serve on the Forum. Forum, since they have a direct 
McCartin called on each nomi­perspective of campus issues 
nee to address himself to the facing them, and are aware of 
Senate for the purpose of ren­·their own needs." 
dering his views as to the func­F o IIowing action on the 
tion of the Forum. Nominees Forum, Stay Senator John Zim­
were then questioned by the merman presented to the Senate 
Senators to enlarge upon various a motion that the Senate -man­
aspects of campus policy, rang­date th~ University to delay 
ing from their opinions of the destruction of the Fieldhouse 
recent protests, to the role of until all facts concerning renova­
the Trustees in campus life. ting it into a possible University 
After hearing from all the arts center arc brought to view. 
nominees, a vote was called. The Zimmerman also moved that 
Senators were instructed to vote the Administration be mandated 
for three of the candidates, with to place the position of an arts 
those three receiving the highest center high on the list of priori­
number of votes declared as the tics for fund allocations, and 
winners. that the Administration recog­
Thirty-eight ballots were cast, nize the necessity for an ade­
with Mike Kelly far ahead, pol­quate art center. 
ling 31 votes, while Sophomore Speaking in behalf of the 
Joe Cottrell placed second with motion, University Arts Council 
16 ballots. Junior Mike Shaugh­President Tom Kronk cited the 
nessy and Sophomore Rich Wall desperate need to sponsor and 
tied for third with 15 votes promote the role of Fine Arts on 
apiece. In a run-off election, the campus. 
Shaughnc:;,sy defeated Wall by a John Matthias, of the English 
vote of 23 16. Department, deplored the fact 
The three winners saw their that culture on this campus is 
role in the Forum in different made to seem elusive, alien and 
lights. remote. 
Kelly, defining himself as a "It is essential that we work 
"libertarian conservative," ex­towards the notion of participa­
plained that the Forum would tion in the arts, and away from 
be "extremely useful for break­the idea of stupified awe that 
ing down the paranoia between results from non-involvement in 
various clements on campus, the arts," he said. 
(Continued on page 2) 
Willson, Brady elected 
by Tom Bornholdt 

and Charles Voelker 36. The 
Dennis Willson and Phillip vote spread for vice-president Brady easily won the positions was Brady 508, Greg Hannigan of freshman class president and 258, and Alden S. Cramer 126. vice-president respectively in the For Treasurer, the votes went elections tabulated last night. By Greco 384, Sarkis Chobanian closer margins, Tony Greco and 280, and Carmen Maciariello Paul Colgan were selected for 154. For secretary, Colgan re­the positions of class treasurer ceived 426 votes and Larry Rar­and secretary respectively. kin 349. 
Willson, a pre-law political Greco and Colgan ran on the science intent from Lyons Hall, same ticket with McCoy and and Brady, a psychology-English Hannigan. They both claimed to 
intent from Alumni Hall, had be "willing to cooperate" with run as an entry. Willson and Brady in the class The vote break up for the government. 
presidential election was: Will­"I'll do the best to work with son 360 votes, Dennis McCoy him (Willson) to keep class uni­191, Jim Zagata 141, Marvin ty. Class unity was the main Bcrgida 93, Paul Simmons 89, issue of our campaign," Colgan 



--.. 

This was the.~een.e last night as the Student Senate chose Mike Kelly, Joe Cottrell and Mike Shau1hnes­
sv to the Umvers1ty Forum. 



CPA plans 15-minute rule protest 
by Dave Lammers that the membership had jump­nature of Dow and the CIA. 
The Coalition for Political Ac­ed from eight members to four­"If they expel me, I'll con­tion met last night and discussed teen since the demonstration sider that war, and stick around what tactics would be used to last Wednesday. Some of the here the second semester any­confront the University's fifteen faculty members intend to be way." Mcinerny said. "This minute rule and University co-defendants in the appeal trial, · purge is part of a conspiracy "complicity" with corporations which is set for I0:00 AM next mentality, so that if they shut a through the placement bureau. Wednesday. Williams pointed few of us up it will kill every­
Professor James Douglass out that Notre Dame's Admin­thing." asked students and faculty istration is using tactics of It was pointed out that only to mert with him on Sunday so Dartmouth and Chicago in its one of the five persons named in 
that a sit-in in Father Riehle's handling of the demonstration. the court injunction were includ­office could be organized. "Dartmouth handed the· heretics ed in the demonstration, and Douglass said that there were over to the secular arm by using that suits for defamation of 
many more people who support­an injunction." Williams said. character were being considered. ed the Dow-CIA demonstration Chicago University waited the A "political defense commit­than were singled out by the problem out and then selected a te.e" was established to gain sup­port for the actions of CPA
Administration for punishment. few of the leaders for members against the Placement
The demonstration in the Dean punishment, Williams said. of Discipline's office on Monday The leaders of the CPA organ­Bureau. "A lot of people arc is intended to show that many ized various committees to gain running around campus with 
•nore students than the ten pre­support of the ten that have half facts," Mcinerny said. sently involved are willing to been expelled or suspended and Research is planned by the confront the University's fifteen to educate the student body on CPA concerning the corpor­minute rule. "If thirty people the "main issue: university com­ations that are coming to Notre are arrested Monday, there will plicity with the imperialist and Dame to interview, and also into be sixty there on Tuesday, and war profitiering corporations." the activities of the Placement so on, until the University faces Brian Mcinerny said that the Bureau. Honeywell and Gulf and this issue," Douglass said. defendants in Wednesday's hear­Western were mentioned as be­
Professor John Williams of the ings have employed legal help, ing specifically objectionable. History Department informed and are not going to evade the The abolishment of the Place­the Coalition of the activities of central issues. Mcinerney said ment Bureau was mentioned as a 
the faculty members who have that there had been no re­possible long range plan of the organized, who ca11 themselves futation by the Administration CPA. It was mentioned that the University Committee for of the fact sheets that the CPA Harvard docs not have the place-Human Rights. Wi11iams said had distributed concerning the (Continued on page 6). 
commented. 

Bartell heads research center 
Willson said that he considers  
unity a prime objective. "Num­ber one is trying to unify the freshman class and getting the support of the other candi­dates," he said. When asked why he won by such considerable margin over a11 his opponents, Willson replied, "The main reason why we won is that we talked to everyone. Personal contact is the main thing." There were two write-in cam­paigns in this election, both had a satirical tone. They both re­ceived less than thirty votes  Direction of Notre Dame's Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society will be transferred December I from Dr. George N. Shuster, who has headed the Center since its start in 1961, to the Rev. Ernest Barten, C.S.C., it was announced today by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. Shuster will devote much of the remainder of his time at Notre Dame to the development of one of the major ideas gener­ated by the Center, the Institute  ular offerings. The Center has concerned itself with the prob­lems confronting contemporary society with which an institution like Notre Dame was best suited to cope. Under Shuster, who has the title of assistant to Notre Dame's president, the Center stimulated research in the humanities and social sciences, developing important programs in the study of American Catholic education and establishing educational rela­tionships with other continents notably Latin America and  
(Continued on page 7)  for  Advanced  Religious Studies  Africa. It took an active part in  


at Notre Dame, which will ex­developing research into the plore the convergence of religion moral and family aspects of pop­with other fields of study. ulation, and important research 
Father Bartell, who remains as projects were carried out under chairman of Notre Dame's Agency for International Devel­department of economics, will opment sponsorship in Latin be acting director of the Center, 4 merica and the Philippines. established as part of the pro­Fat her Bartell is a graduate of gram inaugurated as a result of Notre Dame who, after comple­the first Ford Foundation tion of his studies for the priest­matching grant to Notre Dame. hood and his novitiate in the It was designed to be the "se­Congregation of Holy Cross, cond track" in the University's earned his doctorate in econo­
approach to its quest for aca­mics at Princeton in 1966. He is demic excellence, the first the author ,of studies in the 
"track" being its ordinary curri(i-(Continued on page 7}
Tony Greco 

THE OBSERJJER. 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1969
PAGE 2 
• 

News Meeting Today 




SU,SG meet 1n PoobahBowl 
5:00p.m.  by Mark Walbran  outwitting them."  
The bowl fans won't want to  "I'd  rather  not  offer  a  
Everyohe Please Attend  miss the ruf tearing action of the  prediction  for  the game,"  said  
first  annual  Notre  Dame  Coughlin. "Any comments along  
Poohbah  Bowl  this  Sunday  at  that  line  now  would  be  a  
2:00  p.m.  when  Student  degradation  to  the  Student  
Government  battles  Student  Union. And there will be enough  


Union. mud-slinging next Sunday." As of last night nobody knew Clark predicted that Student "A LYRIC, TRAGIC SONG OF THE exactly where the game would Union would be victorious by at ROAD! AN HISTORIC MOVIE!"" be held, though the field house least three touchdowns. 
-RICHARD SCHICKEL. LIFE 
and the stadium were possible Commenting on Student sites. Anyhow, just follow the Government's tactics, Coach 

PANDO COMPANY on ~ssocoahon wolh RAYB'tRT PRODUCTIONS presents crowd. Bajo said, "Considering the Kay "the Kid" Bajo, Student offensive moves they pull in the Union's coach, center, and office, they should be great out
eaaRideR 
cheerleader, explained in an on the field." ~estricted ex elusive Observer interview "All 1 can say is Student 

"lrt•I'IJ 
yesterday that Student Union Union and Student ServicesPETER FONDA· DENNIS HOPPER sent Student Government a better bring alot of stretchers JACK NICHOLSON • COLOR • R.,..soo~ by COUIMBIA PICTURES letter challenging "those along for after the game," pansies" to test their pigskin warned McKenna. Tito Trevino prow ness. 
-OPEN MEETING "We feel obliged to answer Forum what seems to be a ludicrous 
members chosen 
challenge to our well-rounded (Continued from page 1) foundations.
e x c e ll e n c e , '' Student Academic Commissioner Pat


Robert F. Kennedy 
Zimmerman's motion to ac­Government's replied in a letter Dowdall warned that if the cept the mandate was passed by addressed to the Student Union. Fieldhouse is razed the Univer­consensus.
"More prosaically," continued sity will not have a~ arts center

Institute 
In minor business, selection oftheir letter, "we will pick up the in the future. He cited the need student members of the campusflung gauntlet and use it to beat for solid resolutions of support judicial board created contro­

for Social Action 
the**** out of you." from campus bodies for Zimmer-Denny Clark will call the man's motion. 
versy between the appointment of senior Tom Mignanelli as an

signals for Student Union's Dr. Thomas Fern Chairman alternate member of the board.
squad wh~e Fred "Hands" of the Art Departm;nt, empha­-All interested are asked Dedrick will make the plays for sized the dire need for space for B-P Senator Joe White argued 
that Mignanelli had been

Student Government. . the Art Department, and ob-to attend "As long as John Coughlin, served that the Fieldhouse dropped from appointment as a 
regular member of the board for 

their captain, is mapping out would fill that need. He stated-New members admitted; their stategy," predicted John that a South Bend architect had reasons stemming from his at­
tempt to seek an interview with1970-Board to be selected; Monnisch of the Student Union, inspected the Fieldhouse and an accounting firm during the"we should have no trouble had found it to be structually recent protests. SBP Phil McKen­new programs announced 
sound and capable of housing na denied the charge, saying thatadded internal structures. 

no decisions regarding final ap­All ND-SMC students & When questioned as to the pointments to the board hadamount of finances needed to

faculty invited been made prior to Thursday.
renovate the Fieldhouse, Dr. 
Final action on the matterFern replied that costs would was delayed until the nextreach no more than 1.3 million meeting of the Senate.

Monday, November 24 7pm 
dollars, while an entirely new The Senate concluded itsstructure would soar to more

FACULTY­evening's work by accepting by
La Fortune Student Center 
than three times that price.

STUDENT consensus Tom Thrasher's a­
Dr. Fern also felt that he
ROOMS 2C & 2E 
mendment that seats vacated byMEETING could raise money for the pro­Stay Senators during their terms
MONDAY-4:30 
ject with the assistance of several would be filled by an electionfederal organizations interested
FIELDHOUSE 
within the Senate to providein Arts and Humanities, and replacements to serve out thethrough private individuals and terms. 

Gray's Inn -Law School presents 
A.J."Jay" Cooper, NAACP Legal Defense Fund 
''To Be Young, Irish & Black: Schizoid 


Miscogenation'' 
Friday Nov. 21 8:00p.m.
.JUGGLER 
R. 101 Law School 
notre dame's literary magazine 
3issues only $2.00! 
Refreshments Served 
make cheeRs payable to juggler, .box 5B3,notre dame 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre
na~~---------------------­
Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame,


address__~-----­
Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 
46556. 




_F_R_ID_A_Y_._N_O~V-EM--BE-R--21_._19_6_9--------------------~--.-----~~~~=-~().=~====~==~------·------------------~---------------PAGEJ 
, 
BEWARE!






EUROPE $189 
p3

ROUND 'rRIP ,JEt 
is coming 

U'l!versi!y Cnarter'~ ~~h,Annual Charier Flif/t1 ..$ttnes '•1~ 
Cincinnati Law Schoof?

S,onsOJtd by Notre Daneei•-6t•..-Marys'$ -Shldenta·lnltnlalional
~:!f1l"_ 
t ..~. 

Professor John J. Murphy of the University of Cincinnati College
non-'-$ltop Jer 

of Law will be conducting Interviews Monday, November 24,
op,ff'1.Par and f:9"W.lete meals 
Deuou deflllrtwe~ ,from near·,~ Me~o fi4TJWrt 
In room 154 of the Center for 
~ 

Continuing Education. Sign up
$50'1/lerosh, ffnhl-payment in<March· 
outside 101 O'Shaughnessy. 
ca'l_~ellot!gn pmilfeges until day of~ departure 
John Zimmerman 
complete ~Ja1fg~.o,f travel serv,ices 
FRANKJES 

Our Ann ~r off.tc.ercan book you inhll stude'6t ~tile! hotels
Surveys to determine 
lilfore yo&i leave, •~ oir London officii! wilftlfodk aiU!r all )"OIIi!l 
For Dinner 

nee4s Whi~ you ~... rh l!"'ope. A Tureen of. ~-fl.molli


reasons for rejection 
F•.u~·HT NP 

Soup. Salad. Bread".
by Jim Graif 50% return from all cat·~gories 
~~ . except that of black st.1dents. 
2 June·26 totAutnlt2&-r8 welks Butter & Coffee and
Research and Development Since the sample of black stu­

Detr~t/LollltoniBetroit o $229 finally our choice-12
Commissioner John Zimmerman yesterday explained the purpose dents isn't large enough to draw 
5 ·junl!. 11 to 1Ulv.·21 __ 6 weos ounce strip-of a questionnaire which will be any conclusions from, their re­
1J " ALL I'OR t L~ " 
sent to approximately 570 Notre suits will be listed indiVidually. N.Y /;LondQni • • · $1189 7 ~a,s a w~k Dame freshmen within the next The questionnaire to be sent to · fjen o,.lyJo Notre Oaml! and St. Maf~f's sl&dM/&, "faculty~ ~td1/ two weeks. It is intended to freshmen will be identical to the and immediat~ famillu Which I'POV8S serve as a control factor for a one sent this summer and will be i& survey taken this summer of 570 sent to students who fit in the Reservtls Seats IW eoet. leH 
students who were accepted by 
same four categories. ·ehone or stop in: the University but who for some Zimmerman said that the ...... a-Sllf-S.vlco Connlaslon 


t• .... t•·•·· 
reason or another did not choose commission hopes to have all the ~ £. Lafortune Student eenter 2ft~7m '•t FrMk.lea to attend Notre Dame. statistics by Dec. I so that they 1~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~-~~S~t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----~~~~~~--~ 
The Research and Develop­could be evaluated during Christ-~ · ment Commission, in coopera­mas vacation. tion with the University These statistics are designed 'Admissions department, sent to help determine which, among 
CAPTAIN) HOVJ ~\JCH 
the questionnaire in an attempt the reasons listed in the Admis­to find out what type of student sions Department Code book, 
L.ON6ER BEr:ORE WE. 
was not coming to the Univer­are those which discourage pro­sity and his reasons for not spective students the most. The coming. The data collected chief reasons listed at the pre­
REACH Pt..)IMOUTH1 
should help to determine in sent time are financial difficul­what areas the University is ties, the fact that Notre Dame is weak in the eyes of applicants. all-male, and its religious affilia­
The summer questionnaire tion. was sent to students in four Zimmerman felt that the com­
~USTAS SOON 
major categories. They include: mission's report would be useful students who had been pro­not only to the Admissions 

AS 1 CAN DIAL 
gramed to achieve a 3.0 or better office but also to the Coeduca­GPA at Notre Dame, a randomly tional Coordinating Committee, 

1. AND lHEN 
selected group of students, non­the Financial Aid Committee Cat'h0ifc students, and black stu­and possibly to the board of dents. Zimmerman reporleu a Vice-presidents. 

~Natural 
Wonder' launches the new 
•




wave In eyewear! 
Everything you need for big, big eyes. Clearer, purer, creamier colors that turn on with water--and don't turn ofl'. For a 
Get outta town without leaving campus. The lowest long distance rates are in effect every school night
smooth, silky finish that lasts for hours. 
after 7 p.m. and all day Saturdays and Sundays. 
Natural Wonder~LidShadows'and~LidLiners: There's never been anything like them be­fore. Everything's hypo-allergenic, fragrance­
@ Indiana Bell
free, and 100% dermatologist-tested. Natural Wonder Eye Makeup by Revlon Use your long distance calling number. Save time. Dial your own calls.
Available at: 
ST. MARY'S COLLEGE BOOKSTORE 

PAGE 4 7HB O.&rEIWIIl 

THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
DONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Publisher GAETANO DeSAPIO, Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Error is King 
Editor: 
In order that the record might 
be set straight, I would ap_lreci­
ate your printing of this ItUer. 
In The Observer of Wednest'ay, 
November 19, you printed a 
statement regarding an aspect of 
the demonstration against Dow 
made by James King (page 8, 
column 5). Seeing as how, ac­
cording to the 1969 phone 
book, I am the only James King 
attending the University of 
Notre Dame I want to make it 
very clear that I did not make 
the statement. 
It could have been that the James King quoted was not a student. The possibility remains, however, that a student here at the university attempted to use my name and the prestige of the office of Graduate Student Union President to make his point. If so, I would like to ask that the individual desist from doing so in the future. 
Peace, 
James A. King 
P.S. As a point which may be of further interest, I did not attend the Dow demonstration. 
Son of Flag Pants 
Editor: 
In reply to the gentleman who 
felt his symbol was being abused 
by being worn, I can only ex­
press my sympathy for one 
whose emotions can be so stirred 
by a painted piece of cloth. True 
enough, many brave men havt:. 
died for that symbol but history 
has proven that the ultimate fate 
of symbols is to fall to even 
stronger symbols. When our par­
ticular symbol falls, it will pull 
down with it, all the lives of 
those who have chosen to feed 
the bloody maw of symbol rou­
lette. Meanwhile, flags all over 
the United States snap smartly 
as lives are extinguished in their 
name. When the "I pledge alle­
giance" concept can be dis­
carded, we are all a giant step 
closer to true peace. The author 
of the protest letter is welcome 
to deface any symbol which he 
imagines I hold sacred and I will 
help him. When we can hurdle 
that fallacy, he and I will be 
closer to understanding each 
other. 
Mark David J~nes 
828 E. Wayne· St. 
Despicable 
Editor: 
I feel that Bob Urbanic's letter regarding my folk mass satire deserves some reply. Urbanic was offended bv what he felt was an attack ~n the Catholic Faith. ­
What I do attack is not 
Catholicism, but rather the 
advances of tasteless banality, 
made in the currently 
all-powerful name of 
"relevance," which threaten to 
cheapen this beautiful and 
powerful faith past any hope of 
redemption or even recognition. 

Letters 
The satirical technique used was that of reducing the liturgical "refore" to the hideous absurdity it already draws dangerously near. Thus, "you take the light meat and I'll take the dark meat/and I'll be in heaven before you" is no more offensive than the real folk mass hymn "I'm in love with my god/mY god's in love with me/and the more I love him/the more I know/I'm in love with my God." When the divinity of God is eliminated from one of the means fo worship it is only one step, one which has already been half-taken, to treating God as a mere object. The song was intended to push the offensive genre of folk mass hymns to their logical and despicable end. The hymn is offensive in the sense that it is the culmination of a dwspicable form. 
The intention of the satire was to reduce the listener to laughter or disgust -perhaps both --whenever he hears a folk mass hymn. By exaggerating the tendencies of the hymns, I hoped to get the listener to hear them in a new light, a light in which they are nearly unforgiveable. 
The target of parody is often misunderstood. I regret the lack of communication, and hope this clears it up. If it does not, I cannot feel obliged to apologize for what I feel is necessary criticism. 
Pat Clinton 
Hasty Execution 
Editor: 
Mr. Overlan has lost all sense. 
of reality when he talked about 
the Hue murders. Really Mr. 
Overlan, do you believe you can 
rationalize the murder of 3,500 
as a result of "panic"? For your 
information, the majority of 
those killed were bound about 
the wrists and ankles, with a 
length of rope then placed 
through all the elbows. This all 
happened after they (the vic­
tims) had dug their common 
grave. Then the ropes were pul­
led at both ends, making the 
people attached fall into the 
trench. There they were either 
shot or buried alive. Now Mr. 
Overlan, does this appear to you 
as a hasty execution? 
Would you explain to me just exactly what the NFL had in mind for their prisoners, had they not executed them immediately? I await your rationalization about why the VC just took common citizens, as they did, instead of the reac­tionary elements, such as teach­ers and Public Health workers, as they usually do. Perhaps they just wanted volunteers for their forces; however why did they take women and children, as they did? Why? You imply that they would not have been killed, if we were not present. Perhaps you have not read about Bernard Fall's account of the 50,000 North Vietnamese kulaks killed in 1954-6, by the peasant army 

built by Giap. Perhaps they 
would not have been killed if 
Eisenhower was not elected 
President in 195 2. 

Now for our fault for being 
there. Perhaps if we did not 
hasten into Germany in 1945, 
the concentration camp person­
nel would not have tried to 
CONCEPn TO C£f RID OF 
eliminate all evidence. Perhaps if 
we did not try to rescue those 
~ll-tE flEQ) -ttOJSE fLAM£~­
missionaries in the Congo, the 
few that were killed, would not 
GEi RID OF TI-ft fiELD -~OU6Ef
have died. However perhaps if we were not there at Hue, as we were, perhaps more would have died, as they did in Auschwitz and Buchenwald. Delay also 
Prudence Wear 
would have sealed the fate for 
the missionaries. Delay kills to'o. 
Unrealistic trust 
And for a final shot, for the "if... probably" statement in 
It has finally happened. The safe, secluded St. M'\ry's women haveyour article, Mr. Overlan, I at last been touched by something which may even have somestaunchly believe in a saying told relevancy for them when they get out in the real world. to me by a freshman two years St. Mary's College has been the victim of an increasing number ofago: "If frogs had wings, they 
thefts. These losses are the result of a naive and thoroughlywouldn't bump their little 
asses". 

unrealistic trust. Sincerely, 
The time has come to lock and bar all doors and to open all eyes Francis J. McAleer 
to a very ugly truth. Girls, your friends are not as honest as they 101 0 Flanner 
seem. They do a bit of white-lying to you, a fact you already know, but that is a woman's prerogative, like changing her mind, isn't it? They say a few things behind your back that aren't exactly friendly, but "he who is without sin ... etc." But, beyond the games that 
Score One for Mmphy females play, it is a fact that your friends are s~ealing from you. 
Sometime in the late night or early morning hours last Tuesday or Wednesday, a checkbook and $28 was stolen from the back of aEditor: drawer, from under some papers, from the fourth floor LeMans
I found the publications and room while the owner was sleeping.actions of the· CPA to be quite A senior has had stolen for the past three years her prescriptioninteresting of late -especially birth control pills, which only her friends know she is taking and
during the CIA-Dow chaos. A from the hiding place only her friends knew of. 
few points to consider: l.n such cases it can easily be ·seen that a friend is getting too close

1) The CPA claims that Dow for comfort. Holy Cross Hall recently lived through a rash of purseis "moderately imperialistic." I thefts. Random wallet rifling has been going on all over campus.can't help but recall how the Fifty dollars worth of stereo tapes was stolen from an ND junior'sNational Young Americans for car outside Regina. A $350 violin was lifted from the basement ofFreedom, during 1967, ran a Moreau. !numerable football tickets and I.D. cards have disappeared ..campaign objecting to IBM's And even a dryer load of men's socks wafted off into nowhere. trade with Communist countries. All of these were more than likely "inside jobs". But, who? And,None of those high moralled why? No one seems to be able to envision tlieir friends as thievesCPA members joined us then, but someone's friend is really raking it in. ' but now they expect everyone Captain William Parker of SMC Security feels that there is nothingto be outraged that Dow has his men can do because of the nature of the crimes. "We haven'tbusiness interests in Europe ­been able to do anything because, first of all, we're not patrolling in
our allies! Seems to be a double those areas and can't police those floors. Even if we could, itstandard here. 
wouldn't do any good because there's too many girls. If somebody
2) Three of the 
went up during dinner time, she could probably get into all of her ·
demonstration's leaders, all 
friends' rooms without a hitch."totaled, are taking on course at Realistically, however, Security will never free us from naggingNotre Dame -that's odd. I suspicions living in a fearful atmosphere brings. The problem existswouldn't think they'd have time in our no-man's-land, and only we can solve this problem. 
with all the other 
Trust less; as a matter of fact, trust not at all. Lock your door at
demonstrations that they have all times. Cash small checks and hide, well, the money you have.
to attend. 

And the final blow, start policing on your own.
3) One of the "Big Three" Psychologically, thieves are classed as neurotic aggressives, but:leaders,·Sister Joanne Malone of that doesn't make living with them any safer. Perha;Js, if one St.the "DC9". is a great believer of Mary's girl had gotten involved, had been a little less trusting, andthe phrase, "Do unto others as indeed a bit more Christian, Miss McCandless would not have hadyou would have others do unto her wheelchair stolen from outside her door and packed off in a car.you." How about if somebody 
And the LeMans hall council could have someday given the $80poured blood on you and threw taken from the main desk to the maids. 
you out of a window, sister? One more thi11g. My official 
rhe Observer is published daily
box score for November 18: 
during the college semester except
Arthur Pears and Sister 
vacations by the students of the Malone -thrown out of the 
University of Notre Dame and St. game for being out of their 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may league. 
be purchased for $8 from The Tim MacCarry no run, 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage 
almost hit, one error (he didn't 
paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556.
stay in the hospital). David Breen, Business Manager 
Crimmins

0
Brian Mclnernev 
Timothy H. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. 
Photo Editor: Mike Murphy 

Fr. Hesburgh's "15 minute 
News Editor: Glen Corso Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin 

policy" -10 (it worked and the 
SMC News Editor: Prudence Wear Features Editor: Dave Stauffer
demonstration didn't). 

Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Night Editor: T.C. Treanor
Sincerely, 

Ann Conway, Laura Haferd, and Layout: Mark Stoltz, Susy Bury
Tom Murphy 
Jeanne Sweeney 

Headlines: Frank WeigandI 1 03 Flanner Layout Editor: Mary Beth 
PAGE 5

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1969 TilE OBSERII£lt 


TMH rocks the record world 
by  Jim  E.  Brogan  
For  those  of  you  who  were  lucky  
enough  to  receive  the  University  

published Insight magazine in your 
mailbox last Tuesday, there was a special 
bonus treat enclosed inside. 
Enclosed in each and every issue was a copy of the latest released disc by a new recording group called Teddy & the Too-tough troopers. Many of us that follow the music scene have been waiting years for such an offering. We knew it would only be a matter of time before Father Ted would involve himself in yet 
another t1me consuming acitivity. bnt few of us ever expected in our wildest dreams that he would make a leap for the top of the tunedex. (Although perhaps we should have seen this trend coming after Everet Dirkson took to the recording studios and sold a million sides.) 
This baby looks like a two-sided winner all the way. Bother sides have the same repetitive uyn'amite beat that has characterized his live performance. The record's selling point lies in its poignant 
Father Ted. If this combining idea works 
as well as the separate original & answer 
songs did, Father Ted will have a smash 
on his hands. 
Another new stroke of genius to make its first appearance anywhere is that the disc is untitled. This is interesting to the extent that the contents of the recording are so controversial. The fact that it is untitled serves a dual purpose. First, no one can readily sec the focal point of the recording and secondly it is impossible to discuss it because it has no easy handle by which to refer to it. 
This single (hopefully lengthened into a longplay album someday) has a unique gimmick which sets it well apart from the run of the mill teenybop songs. Whereas the usual faire has a throbbing bass guitar and nonsense lyrics, Father Ted has decided to leave out the bass guitar. Yes, there is no music to be found on either side, but only a two-part harmony of unrhymed lyrics, the likes of which we have heard so many times before. 


Railroad drummer Don Brewer 
JIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIillllllllll~ 
i Tom Ehrbar i 
~ A part of life § 
-: ­
We marched against death, and after understanding. She seemed sure of herself we marched we walked for a while and 
and gripped her pad tighter. She told us argued for a while, and then we were cold that wars are a part of life, "One comes; so we went to a very ordinary bar. On 
along every I0-15 years, always nave, one side there were cushioned bar stools 
always will.'. She told us that Nixon was without hacks that you could swing doin' all he could to get us out of Vietnam.. iwnorably, and that "he sure as
around on if you wanted to, or if you were drunk. On the other side was a neat 
hell knows a lot more about what's goin' 

little row of booths that four people on over there than any of you kids 
could squeeze into unless someone was knows.' 
fat. There were only three of us so we I had heard it all somewhere before, I 
w•:re OK. Our booth was right by the was sick of it, I did not want to argue 
door and the seats were cold. There were anymore. I held my breath and hid 
also orange record-selector machines beneath her torrent of words. When she 
along side each booth, stuck onto the was out of words I ordered a beer. We all 
wall. had beers, draft. My two friends said the 
I had a dime. My friends wanted Judy waitress had a point. Another perspective, 
Collins. I punched 0-5 for Tony Bennett. another way of looking at things, they 
I Left My Heart in San Prancisco. Short said. I grimaced, played another Tony 
pause, a few well-chosen, clever remarks, Bennett record, ordered my second beer. 
all of which I had heard some.where My two friends talked of many things, 
before. !laughed anyway. some of it serious (at first), some of it 
funny, some of it dirty. They asked meBusinessmen, or at least clean-shaven, what was wrong. I said "nothing." Imitldle-aged,pothellied men in business looked at the people in the bar. Inside ofsuits listened to the music, held half-filled me I laughed at them, felt strongclinking glasses, chatted and smiled, contempt for them. I thought of the kidsexhuhcram with drink. When we came in we had marched with. I saw the greensome of Ihem swung around on their pin-striped man. llis legs were crossed likestools to sec who had come in. I had a a woman's and he still watched me. "GoZen medallion ("life eternal," it means) to hell", I whispered.

around my neck and as I went to the An hour later I was drunk, my twomen's room a man in a green pin-striped friends not quite. When I rooted aroundsuit followed me with his eyes and in my pocket to brin~ up change for mywinked at me. 
last beer I brought with it the candle I 

We Wdited at the booth. The bar was had carried in the march against death. 
crowded. A waitress, friendly, polite, but We left the bar. I took the coins my 
otherwise an ordinary waitress came over friends nad left as a tip for the waitress. I 
with a pad in her hands and said hello. did not notice that the gaze of the man in 
She asked us (she knew all along) why we the green pin-stripes was still upon me. 
had come to Washington. We told her It was hitter cold, windy. The car was 
why we had come. stubborn, coughed for a while, finally 
We told her we were tired of killing, turned over in a loud, clear shouc. I was 
tired of waiting for an end to the killing. asleep in the hack seat. The next day I 
Spiro Agnew is a......we told her. She had went to the Vietf'amese Embassy and was 
some sympathy for us, but no gassed. 
This entire package really can be viewed as two songs in itself. Back in the early sixties there was a trend for follow-up songs that were answers to an original so.md. These so-called answer songs, which include biggies as l.cader of the Laundrymat (Leader of the Pack) and Queen of the /louse (King of the Road) 
inevitably sold almost as well as the original. So Father Ted has apparently decided to combine this well-selling idea into one vibrant song. 
The result is a series of backround questions by a mere unkown and snappy comeback answers by the lead vocalist, Woodstock? 

Grand· Funk frenzy 
Why should this happen? The group Sometimes, not too often, just once in hadn't had any large build up before they a while, you can become transfixed. appeared anywhere. They haven't been Maybe it's na exceptionally good movie. members oi broken super-groups, come You sit there and ten minutes later you. to yet another aggregate. There's nothing realize that your mouth's been hanging to them but their music, and it is this open, and you're awed by the perfor­which has been doing the job for them. mance. Their music is something else. During the early days of The Beatles' 
In an industry that rates group's per-tour it was like that. Like that or exactly formances against other group's, Grand the reverse. Audiences could be rapt or Funk Railroad has been likened to Cream riotous. The emotion simply took ano­by many writers and reviewers. This in 'ther channel. itself is a masterful compliment, but it is The overpowering emotional release is not the direction of the group. They are not a thing of the past. Audiences would not mimes of a past glory. They are not seem to be too sophisticated today to immitators. They are innovators. lnnova-jump out of their scats, to be charged tors of a music that is as powerful and over a powerful riff, or torn by a beat gutsy as the Cream's, but music that that's too heavy to ignore. doesn't belong to the past masters. They've had it all, and it takes excep-
They arc into their music and its tiona! vibes to ungluc their minds and resulting effect on their audiences. Don their seats. If this is the case, the Grand Brewer, drummer, feels that the audience Funk Railroad is the catylist to unglue is an integral part of the show. "I seats and prime the vocal chords of a remember seeing a lot of big groups," he generation. recalled. "They thought they were so Consider their record: The Atlanta Pop cool. They'd turn their backs on the Festival, 125,000 people, rapt and near audience and play to themselves. Some of hysteria at the same time. The Texas the kids thought that was really great International Pop Festival, 180,000 stuff, and there were others who didn't people simply screaming because of the know what to think. I felt insulted. :An GFR sound. Nashville, 30,000 people audience is there to be entertained. They kept off the stage by a protective cordon paid for a show, not to see a collective of police. Adulation is almost reached out jam by some group. We don't think that's to become hysteria. Cincinnati and Los entertainment." Angeles, more of the same. 
Obviously GFR's idea of what makes The gutty, raw, moving, sexual quality up entertainment does not fall into the of the air is a side product of the frenzied ego tripping bag. They are onstage to yet controlled music of Grand Funk enjoy themselves. More important, they Railroad. are onstage to entertain. It only works Mark Farner is the group's lead when the audience is having as much fun guitarist, and is responsible for all the as the group. cuts on the group's first Capitol album. 
What is it that can turn hoards of He and bassist Mel Schacher are heavy in strangers onto a group in a matter of a the sense of their music. With drummer few hours? It has to be the music first, Don Brewer, the boys (hardly out of their and the personality of the group second. teens) put together the kind of electricity And both ha've to be there. that can't be measured on any scale. 
Musically the group is disciplined. Not They exude musjc, sex, fervor, tempo the stagnant discipline that puts a group and excitement without half trying. It's into a pocket and keeps them there. just the kind of act they arc. Always Rather it is the kind that makes Grand together, always on top of the show and Funk Railroad a living, breathing entity. their audience, always into their music. An entity that is capable of so much It's nice to note that they're still music that their range and appeal can at growing. Railroading whomever they play times be frightening. for into grabbing, gutsy, Grand Funk. 

lead guitarist Mark Farner of Grand Funk 


Dallas Bowl trip details 
John Monnich, Student Ser-that the Student International game ticket will amount to $1 35 vices Commissioner, yesterday firm, based at the University of from Chicago, and $15 5 from explained the delay in finalizing Michigan, would coordinate the New York. plans for the Student Trip to the trip. Monnich emphasized that Cotton Bowl in Dallas on Jan-M onnich cited the lower these price.s are $15 cheaper per uary I. prices of the firm, along with the person from each point of de-
According to Monnich, the high quality of service as the parture than Student-Air, and Student Union had tentatively prime determinants in selecting the services of each are identical. decided on contracting Student-Student International. Monnich stressed that stu­Air for the flight to Dallas, but Two student flights will be dents must sign-up for the trip 
nothing was made definite with chartered, leaving Chicago and that firm. New York on December 30, and 
Therefore, following prelimin-returning to those points on ary announcements of the trip, January 2. The total costs for several student organizations ex-the trip, including plane fare, pressed an interest in"'contracting hotel accomodations at the Stat-the trip. After considering vari-ler-Hilton, bus trips to and from ous offers, Monnich revealed the airport and arne and the 
The burgers are biggerat 



501 DIXIEWAY NORTH, SOUTH BEND 

Burger King. Home of the Whopper. 

on this coming Sunday or Man­day beginning at 6:30 P.M. in the Coke Bar of the LaFortune Student Center. Each plane can carry 180 students apiece, and it is necessary that at least 50 students sign up from each point of departure in order for the trip to be finalized. 

Rebates approved 
Student Body President Phil McKenna reported last night that as of last week he had received "about ISO requests" for financial rebates from Grace Hall residents. 

McKenna, who stated in an interview that the student government was working with Father Whelan to finalize details, speculated that "the figure' is much higher now." 
"We plan on working it," said McKenna, "so that it will be possible to figure out exactly how much money the students lost on a daily basis for the length of time that they were displaced. I don't believe the top figure will exceed twenty dol­lars, though, and most people won't be getting that much." 
According to McKenna, all those forced to share suites while waiting for the Tower's completion would be eligible for rebate. The refunds arc sche­duled to be taken off second semester billing. 

Notre Dame Ten 
plan to fight back 
' 
(Continued from page I) 
ment bureau or an ufloer­graduate business school or an engineering department. 
Demonstrations were also considered for the dedication of Grace Hall on December 8th, and for the return of a Dow interviewer on February 15. 
Plans for the distribution of leaflets at the football game this weekend were made, and also for speakers to go to the halls 1t the beginning of next week. 



Lodge quits post 
PARIS (UP!) -Ambassador Henry Cabor Lodge resigned yes­terday as chief negotiator at the Paris peace talks because of Communist failure to negotiate. Both the Viet Cong and the North Vietnamese indicated his move would not budge them from their hard bargaining posi­tion. 
The White House announced in Washington that Lodge and his deputy, Lawrence E. Walsh, had resigned over the Commu­nists refusal to negotiate. 
Spokesmen for the two Com­munist delegations said Lodge was merely following Washing­ton's orders and that they were looking for a change in Washing­ton policies, not negotiators. 
At yesterday's session the Communists accused the United States of committing monstrous war crimes in South Vietnam and again called for total with­drawal of American troops as the only means of ending the war. 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1969 THE OBSERVER PAGE 7 


~~TURKEY BASH''

Willson,, Brady, Colgan, Greco 
Featuring: WALSH HA~L
elected freshman class officers 
BASEMENT


THE CIRCUIT Saturda 9 -12:30
(Continued from page I) ialso in Planner and is an engi­
apiece. The election winners neering intent. considered this as a positive sign Willson, Brady, Colgan and that the freshman class was not Greco all professed disappoint­taking the election as a joke. ment at the light Freshman turn­
On the various issues, Willson out. said he presently opposed the Brady commented saying, 

Open FRIDAY, SATURDAY, & SUNDAY 
complete merger between the "The Freshman elections freshman classes of N D and suffered from a publicity SMC. lle did feel that a very drought this year. They suffered 
"HOT COUNTRY MUSIC ON BROADWAY" close degree of cooperation be­from one last year. And they tween the two classes was a will continue to suffer until a 
"LAS VEGAS HILLBILLIES" must. concerted effort to inform, chal­"HILLBILLIES IN THE HAUNTED HOUSE"
Willson said that the first con­lenge and excite the voters is crete action he wishes to see the made. This year, nobody knew establishment of a commission, what was coming off. I think 
Bonus Friday & Saturday
including his opponents, which that perhaps our first duty once Paul Colgan "NASHVILLE"
would study and draw up a class in office is to make sure that the constitution. rreshman classes of the future Colgan is a chemistry concen­will be better prepared for 111111111111111111 tration intent in Flanner. Greco elections. 
Bartell new leader of contemporary problem study 
(Continued from page 1; Institute lor Population Studies. sponsored such projects as the 
The first program is supported Philosophic Institute for Arti­economi::s of education and has academically by two commit-ficial Intelligence; the Lecomte conducted research into labor tees, each of which includes du Nouy program concerned force characteristics among low-representatives of all depart-with relationships between sci­income peoples in Latin A mer-ments and colleges concerned ence, philosophy and religion; ica. "Father Bartell," noted with developing interdisciplinary and a Latin-American exchange 
Father llesburgh, "is also deeply ~s~tt~td~ie:s:_.~T~he~s~e ~c~o=m~m~it~te:e~s ~h:av:e~p:ro~g~ra~m~.------------~1-~~~~~;~!!~~~~~~~~~~~-J
and personally aware of con-.... 

temporary developments in American collegiate education. lie has been in close touch with the Center's activities over sev­eral years and will bring new, vigorous and imaginative leader­ship to the development of its objectives." 
The Center itself has been reorganized into three units-the program of research in the humanities and social S':iences; the Social Science Training Laboratory; and a proposed 
IF YOU DON'T KNOW

Senior Weekend 

WHAT CREATIVE IDEAS


Saturday 

CAN COME FROM
Pre-Game: Warm-Up Party at Alumni Club 

THE OLD FIELDHOUSE 
At Game: Senior Award 


TH£N STOP BY TH£ FI£L.DHOUS£ 
After Game: Ist Annual Reunion 

MONDAY, at 4:30 FACULTY -STUDENT MEETING 
NEW YEARS, DALLAS, & the COTTON BOWL 





-A· WONDERFUL COMBINATION 
FL.Y FROM NEW YORK OR CHICAGO DIRECT TO DAL.L.AS ON DECEMBER 30 RETURN TO CHICAGO ON JAN 2 
COST: FROM NEW YORK  -$155  
FROM CHICAGO  -$135  
PACKAGE INCLUDES  
-Round Trip Air Transit  -Game Ticket  
Hotel Accomodation in Dallas  -Transfers in Dallas  

To Secure a Reservation a Deposit of $25 Is due either Sunday or Monday in the basement of the Student Center 
ALL SALES ARE ON A FIRST COME FIRS't <)ERVED BASIS AND BEGIN AT 6:30PM 
ONL.Y 180 S£ATS AR£ AVAIL.ABL.£ FROM £ACH CITY CAL.L. HOM£ & ARRANG£ TH£ FINANCING NOW! 
7118. OBSERVER. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1969
PAGE 8 

Weather permitting, Falcon offense could fly 
Now this week, I'm not first downs, total plays, and credit (4.4) and Jim DeOriod has fooling. Air Force is good. I total offense. They've fumbled 420 (3.9). Baxter himself has only 12 times (compared to
know I tried to pass Tulane off I I 7 yards rushing. 
NO's I 9) and lost only six of
as potent through the air, Pitt as If the weather turns nasty, the 
them (ND I 0). They also have
big-strong-tough-balanced, and ballgame could revolve around 
fewer penalties and yards lost
Georgia Tech as great against the kicking game and here Air 
than their foes. 
great teams, but this is different. Force will be hard to beat. For 
Quarterback Gary Baxter
The Falcons have an offense getting out of tough spots, the 
makes the machine go with his
that can GO. They can pass and Falcons call upon punter Darryl
running and passing. He's got
run equally well; they have an Haas, who has averaged 40.1 
more total offense yards than
exceotional kicking game They yards on 45 punts. Even more 
Joe Theismann, 1646 yards
are statistically better than their potent is linebacker/placekicker
passing. He's thrown for 13 TO's 
opponents in running, passing, Dennis Leuthauser, perhaps the 
and run for six more. And his 
finest in the nation. Last year he 
completion percentage (.481) is a 57-yard goal
booted fieldLine -ups better than that of most of the against Wyoming. This season 

qb's the Irish have faced this 
he's made good on 14-21 field
NOTRE DAME 

season. 
goal attempts and he leads theOFFENSE He does most of his throwing Falcons in scoring with 69 SE Tom Gatewood to flanker Ernie Jennings and for points. Another three points and 
good reason. Jennings has used
LT Jim Reilly he'll be AF's career scoring
his 9. 7 speed .to catch 49 passes
LG Larry DiNardo leader. 
for 695 yards and nine TO's. He 
C Mike Oriard The Falcon defense suffered a
personally destroyed Utah State 
crucial blow when Ed EppingRG Gary Kos by grabbing five scoring passes, was lost for the entire seasonRT Charles Kennedy tieing an NCAA record. And he before the first game. The
doesn't limit himself to catching
TE Tom Lawson 

defensive tackle was expected to
the ball. He beat Army with a
QB Joe Theismann be a shoo-in All America. The
96-yard kickoff return and has
LHB Ed Ziegler Falcons can be scored upon,
tied the school mark of returns. 
RHB Denny Allan especially through the air.
He has averaged an excellent 
Stanfords' Jim Plunkett beatFB Bill Barz 29.5 yards per return. 
them 47-34 last week and
The Falcon running attack is
DEFENSE 

they've allowed 1547 yards
much like Notre Dame's in that 
passing. More importantly,LE Walt Patulski it is solid and based on several opposing passers have a .524
individuals. Tailback Curtis
L T Mike McCoy 

completion mark against them.
Martin had 47S yards to his
RT Mike Kadish RE Fred Swendsen LOLB Tim Kelly LILB Larry Schumacher RILB Bob Olson ROLB John Raterman LHB Clarence Ellis RHB Ralph Stepanick SA John Gasser 
AIR FORCE 
LE Mark Ewig L T Gary Blank MG Dennis Leuthauser RT John Greenlaw RE Evans Whaley LLB Phil Bauman RLB Glen Leimbach ROVER AI Wvrglitz LH Cyo Maattala RH C. Richardson SA Kent Bays 
OFFENSE SE C. Longnecker L T John Bierie LG Virgil Staponski C George Rayl RG Dave Patton RT Tom Duff TE Dave Magghee 

Q B Gary Baxter TB Curtis Martin FLANK E. Jennings Quarterback Gary Baxter has 1763 total offense yards this season, 
FB Jim DeOrio and has accounted for 19 Falcon TD's. 
•

ND n1ne -game statistics 
DEFENSIVE STATISTICS RETURNS (i\lumber·Yards·Touchdownsl TM TL·YDS PBU FR 
Interceptions Punts Kickoff Olson 122 9-80 1 1 Stepaniak 4-84-0 8-37-0 Mike McCoy 83 10-36 7 Ellis 3-98·1 Kadish 68 6-27 1 Gas..er 3-69-0 Kelly 58 1·8 Schumacher 3-8-0 Raterman 55 2-6 1 3 Raterman 2· 4-0 1·5-0 Schumacher 54 4-28 1 1 Olson 1·15-0 P"!tulski 46 6-23 2 2 Lewallen 1-5-0 7-75-1 Gasser 45 7 2 
Thomann 1-3·0 Stepaniak 34 6 1 Kelly 1· 0·0 ellis 31 9 
.... McCoy 1-0·0 1·25·0 Swendsen 28 4-4l 2 Gulyas 11-54·0 1· 25-0 i\leidert 28 3-23 2 Allan 1-4·0 10-185·0 '!Vright 27 1 Ziegler 3· 20·0 18
Zikas 2-17 Barz 2-14-0 Thomann 15 Crotty 2-6-0 2· 61·0 Zloch 12 Cieszkowski 1-13-0 Patton 11 1-9 Yoder 1· 28-0 Merlittis 'J 1-4 2 Etter 1-5-0 Lewallen 7 (11 
Reid 4 1 


Yet they are still fairly strong nursing a pinched nerve. overall, especially at linebacker Halfback Ed Ziegler is a where Mr. Leuthauser marks 
doubtful starter and the back-up picture isn't clear either. If Andy
time between long field goals. He leads the team in tackles with 

Huff is over his monor hurts, he'll start. If not, either Jim
86 while Phil Bauman and Glen Yoder or Ed Gulyas will get the
Leimbach (also linebackers) trail nod. Bob Olson, Mike Kadish,
him with 78 and 73 respectively. md Jim Reilly though not fully
Air Force is 6-3 on the year, recovered from minor bruises,
but the oosses haven't been by are ready to play.
much. Besides Stanford, powerhouse Missouri barely scraped by 19-17 and Wyoming 

Pool Tourney
(before being hit by racial troubles, the Rocky Mountain Brother Gorch has announced kingpin) registered a 29-27 win. that a pocket bilLiards 
On the Notre Dame side, the tournament will be held in the news is Cotton Bowl and LaFortune Student Center injuries. There is always the starting after December I. The danger of a let-down by the Irish tournament is open to all and they've lost several days of students and wil1 be conducted practice this week due to poor in two divisions, to make weather and the lateness of the competition more even. In order game with Georgia Tech. Terry to register for the tourney Brennan is out for the remainder students are asked to check the of the season with a knee injury bulletin board ia the pool room. and DEwey Poskon is still The matches will be played to I00 balls in the preliminary rounds and 150 balls in the quarter and semi-final rounds. 
Novice finals 
This afternoon at 4:00 in the Matches will take place at theBoxing Rom of the ACC, the opponents convenience andfinals of the Novice Boxing there is no entry fee outside ofTournament will be held. Admis­the regular playing fee of 50sion is free for the eight bouts. 

cents an hours. If you have anyThe Boxing Room is in the questions, call 7558.
North Dome of the Convo. 

~11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 










1~IRISH EYE 
By Mike Pavlin, sports editor 
'111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Although the college football season continues after this week, this will be my final column of "picks". The great danger tomorrow is that of complacency for teams which have accepted bowl bids. 
Notre Dame over Air Force-by 14. A lousy day weather-wise could turn this into a 7-0 game; good weather, and they'll need a computer to tabulate the points. 
Ohio State over.. Michigan-by 20. That TV game last Saturday made me a believer. 
UCLA over USE--by 10. For the past several weeks, in fact for most of the season, Southern Cal has been scraping by weak sisters. Tomorrow they'll get theirs on national TV. 
Kansas State over Colorado-by 6. There will proba'bty be a lesser bowl bid hnaging on this one. Oklahoma over Nebraska--by 3. Steve Ownes leeps the Sooner offense going over a tough Cornhusker defense. Missouri over Kansas-by 13. If Mizzou plays up to par, this may be a preview of what they do to Penn State in the Orange Bowl. 
Purdue over Indiana-by 10. It's been a tough second half of the season for Johnny Pont. The "Old Oaken Bucket" goes to Purdue once again. 
Delaware over Bucknell--by 17. The upset last week by Boston U. cost the Hens a possible shot at North Dakota State in a bowl. Now IOth ranked, Delaware will defend its Boardwalk Bowl title in Atlantic City against North Carolina Central. 
Arizona State over Colorado State-by 7. Utah over BYU-by 10. Stanford over California-by 14. New Mexico State over New Mexico-by I 0. Oregon State over Oregon-by 13. Washington State over Washington-by 14. Houston over Wyoming-by I7. Oklahoma State over Iowa State-by 10. Iowa over Illinois-by 20. Northwestern over MSU-by 6. Minnesota over Wisconsin-by 17. Penn State over Pitt-by-13. West Virginia over Syracuse-by 14. Tennessee over Kentucky-by 21. LSU over Tulane-by 24. SMU over Baylor-by 17. TCU over Rice-by I 0. Last Wek:"Winners, Won 14 Lost 7, .667 
Point Spreads, Won 9 Lost I 2, .429 Season: Winners, Won 153 Lost 62 Tied 5, .712 Point Spreads, Won 95 Lost 125, .432 

