·THE WORLD TODAY 
Communists shell "Frontier City" 
SAICON (UI'I) -Communists bombarded a U.S. infantry camp ncar the Cambodian border with mortar fire yesterday but did not renew a ground assault that cost them 214 dead in the first attack. 
Military spokesmen said commanders of the 25th Infantry Division outpost known as "Frontier City" called in artillery, helicopter gunships and jet fighter support Sunday to silence enemy guns after they had pumped 15 mortar rounds into the camp. Patrols 
E OBSERVER Servinx the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community  
MONDAY, APRIL 28, 1969VOL. Ill, No. 123  


DeGaulle trounced
sweeping the area afterward found 13 more bodies, raising the Communist toll for the battle to 227. 

French say "non" to ''God''Bolivian President killed In crash 
LA PAZ, Holivia (UPI) -President Rene Barrientes Ortuno, whose army crushed the guerrilla forces led by the late Erncsto Che Guevara, was killed yesterday when his helicopter crashed outside his hometown of Cochabamba in the Bolivian interior. 
Radio Condor said Barrientos' helicopter crashed when it hit a power line outside of Cochabamba, about 200 miles southeast of the capital. /lis aide, Lt. Leo Orellana, was accompanying him and also was killed. 
A spokesman for the presidential palace confirmed the president's death shortly after the semiofficial Radio Condor broadcast the announcement. 
Barrientos was an accomplished pilot, but government officials could not confirm whether he was at the controls of the aircraft when it crashed. 


More troops arrive In North Ireland 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland (UPI)-The final contingent of an airlift of 550 British troops from London arrived Sunday to reinforce British forces already based here in guarding the country's utility and communications centers. Despite guards posted for the first time a week ago, sabotage of water utilities continued. 
More than 15 persons were injured in a clash between Protestant 


militants and Catholics in Armagh, about 35 miles southwest of COLOMBEY DES DEUX here. Cardinal William Conway, who said Mass and confirmed a EGLISES, France (UPI)­group of children in Armagh, urged Catholics to remain in their President Charles deGaulle of­homes and avoid violence. 
ficially resigned last night after French voters defeated his Con­

Cornell Afro-American Society disarms stitutional reform plan 
in a re­ferendum. lie had been presi­ITHACA, N.Y. (UPI)-At Cornell, Ithaca, N.Y., where black dent of France since 1958.
students conducted an armed sit in a week ago, bringing public and 

The general made the
faculty outcry for campus disarmament, the Afro American Society announcement that will end ainformed the university yesterday that there were no weapons in its political era in France from hisheadquarters, or in two black cooperative dormitories. Steven country estate here after nearlyMuller, vice president for public affairs at Cornell, said he was complete polling results showedconvinced that the assurance was true. 

Frenchmen had rejected hisOn Satmday, Tom Jones, a spokesman for the Afro American political reform plan by a ten­Society, had said a public meeting, "I'm not going to disarm and I tative margin of 52.48 to 47.52,
don't think any black student is going to disarm." 

percent. 


McNamara to speak at dedication 
Robert S. McNamara, presi­by an academic convocation dent of the World Hank and which will be addressed by former secretary of defense, will McNamara. McNamara was an he the principal speaker at the assistant professor of business May I dedication of the Univer­administration at Harvard for 
sity of Notre Dame's llayes­three years before beginning in 
llealy Center for graduate busi­1946 a IS-year career as an exe­ness education. cutive of the Ford Motor Com· The $1 million building was a pany, including the presidency gift to Notre Dame from Mr. and of the company in 1960-61. He Mrs. John F. llealy, owners of a served as secretary of defense long-established Chicago travel from 1961 until his appointment agency, Vanderbilt Better Tours, last year as president of the In­and they will be honored at a ternational Bank for Reconstruc­dedication luncheon. tion and Development. His term The dedication events will as secretary was noted for the start with a I 0 a.m. Mass in successful application of a Sacred IIcari Church celebrated "systems approach" to the mass­by Notre Dame's president, the ive budget and programs of the 



DeGaulle's announcement said his resignation would be effective as of noon Monday. 
According to the French Con­stitution, DeGaulle will be suc­ceeded immediately by French Senate President Alain Poher, 60 year old leader of the Center Party. 
The 78 year old general informed France his day-and its day-had come with these terse words: 
"I am ceasing to exercise the functions of the president of the Republic. 
"This decision takes effect at 
midday today Monday."  
Thus,  in  20  words,  Charles  
deGaulle  again  stepped  out  of  
the  hurly  burly  of  French  

political life as he had done shortly after World War II and ended the DeGaulle reign in France which began in May of I 958. Then, he came forth from retirement from this same estate to lead France out of the bitter rivalries of the Algerian rebellion and to build his Fifth Republic 
on the political ruins of the 
fourth. 
The issue upon which DeGaulle fell was, technically, a vote for or against his Constitutional reform plan. Broadly, it would have stripped the French Senate of political power, decentralized the nation into about 21 parity auto­nomous regions and, in all, revised about one third of the Constitution's lesser provisions. 
But many Frenchmen did not even understand fully the pros and cons of these issues and for the entire nation this was a vote for or against continuation of DeGaulle's power. The general made it so Friday night when he told them in what proved to be his last nationwide television appeal: 
"If I am disapproved solemnly by the majority of yourselves on this capital subject . . . my present task as chief of state will clearly become impossible and J will immediately stop carrying out my functions." 


HPC hears report 
Pete Kelly, Notre Dame's Community Relations Director, told hall presidents last night of his plans to involve individual halls in South Bend community 
service projects. Kelly, speaking at the HPC's weekly meeting in the student center amphitheatre, described the hall's role in the Community Action Corps he is organizing. 
The corps will consist of three divisions: a Volunteer Service Bureau, a Community Organ­izing Committee, and a Student Action Committee. The Volun­teer Service Bureau, which will concern the halls most, will be the first division set up. 
It will coordinate community service projects by handling pub­licity and recruitment of volun­teers. Kelly asked that the hall presidents, with the assistance of section leaders, keep the resi­dents informed of current pro­jects. 
He also asked that the presi­dents choose a representative for each project with whom volun­teers can sign up. The presidents must keep in touch with Notre Dame's Volunteer Service Bureau which, in turn, will re­main in contact with the volun­teer service bureau downtown. 
"We'd like to involve the halls as much as possible because we'd like to sec them establish an individual identity with the South Bend Community," Kelly said. 
Among the projects with which the bureau will deal are neighborhood study help, mental health groups, Big Bro­ther, and nursing home visits. 
THE OBSHR Vt'R will no longer be available in the morning durinx the Continental breakfast due to the one hour time discrepancy between Niles and South Bend. 
PAGE 2 THE OBSERVER MONDAY, APRIL 28, 1969 
ORGANIZATION REGISTRATION 
All new and old clubs must register with the Student U­nion by May I . Organiza­tional cars must be applied for at this time. Applications may be picked up in Room 4-E of LaFortune Student Center on Mon.-Wed. and Fri. between 3: 15 and 5:00. 

Lepham elected new YD chairman 
~-----------!-------------~----'------------,for re-election in 1970. A reso-
Sophomore Harry Lepham a sponsored lecture by John Notre Dame Students for Ken­became the new Chairman of the Siegenthaler, who managed the nedy in '72, became the new Notre Dame Young Democrats California primary campaign of Vice-Chairman. last week. The present Chair-Robert Kennedy. Steve Novak was elected to man, Richard Hunter, chose not In a run off election, Lapham the office of Secretary and Bill to run for re-election. defeated the present vice-Joyce to the office of Treasurer. 
At last night's meeting, the chairman Rick Libowitz by a Prior to the elections, the YDs YDS also passed two resolutions margin of one vote. Freshman passed a proposal to endorse and announced future plans for Jack Gillis, the Chairman of Indiana Senator Vance Hartke 



GUTS! 

Jaguar Clrnrp 

EVER GET THE FEELING? 
The itch in the seat of your pants to go out and drive a competition racing machine backs to the walls at 145 MPH? But can't afford the $7000.00 price tag. 
MGC 

145 HP -145 MPH -Radial tires, oil cooler, 15 inch wire wheels, rack and pinion steering and a healthy 6 hanger coupled to an all syncro 4 speed with over-drive as standard equipment. You supply the GUTS; We'll supply the 
car. MGC Roadster $3378, delivered; 
see Jaguar George at 
PEPPERS MOTORS 3105 W. Sample Soutlt Bend, Ind. Phone: 289-7788 

lution establishing a policy com­mittee to draft stands on specific issues was also passed. This com­mittee will consist of the newly elected officers and three other members appointed by Lapham. 
The lecture by Siegenthaler, which will deal with the press reactions to the trial surrounding the Robert Kennedy assassina­tion, is presently scheduled for May eighth in the Library Audi­torium. 
When asked about his future plans as chairman Lapham stated that he proposes to contact the Chairman of the Saint Mary's Young Democrats concerning a possible merger of their two organizations. He also stated that he plans to accompany Hunter to the Indiana State Democratic Committee Meeting, which will deal primarily with both the reform of the Demo­cratic Party in Indiana and the necessary planning for the 1970 campaign races. The meeting will be held in Indianapolis on May 17. 
Chicago Area Draft Resistors (CADRE) will speak on resist­ance tonight at 7:30 in the Law Auditorium. 

--------------------'----------------\ 
PIZZA HUT 

N.D. Beer Night 

-Every Monday 7:30-1 A.M. $1 pitcher 
Pizza Smorgasbord 
-nvery Monday and Tuesday 5:30-7:30 All you can eat plus one soft drink $1.35 
Carry Out ... Check Discount Rates for your hall and club parties 
No. 1 1738 Lincolnway East 288-6060 No. 2 2307 E. Edison 233-3827 
STUDENT UNION ACADEMIC COMMISSION PRESENTS 
. -· . ~·~~:_:.:.:;:;...~::s: .;•, --....-. 
•:..-~ •• lr ·:.~ 
·,, .. 

THE AUTHOR OF 
''THE PASSOVER PLOT'' DR. HUGH J. SCHONFIELD 




''THOSE INCREDIBLE CHRISTIANS'' 

8. P.M. Monday, April 28 LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
THE OBSERVER

MONDAY, APRIL 28, 1969 PAGE 3 
Letters to the editor 


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
TIMOTHY J. O'MEILIA, Editor-in-Chief 
DONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Executive Editor DAVID M. BREEN, Business Manager 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Campus ROTC: 
Is It Worth The Price? 
Without regard to the implications of a budget via ROTC scholarships. To match Christian commitment. it seems the ques­scholarship funds like that, the university tion of ROTC and Notre Dame can be would need to add more than $16 million 
considered on two levels. The essential to its present $62 million endowment. In question asks if a cooperative association one sense, then, it is understandable why with the military can be a legitimate university officials encourage participation 
undertaking of a u nivcrsity. Peripheral in the programs. issues involve the academic credit to be awarded student participators in that asso­
But as tempting as this financial assis­ciation, and the faculty rank awarded the tance certainly is, it cannot justify Notre program's military directors an award Dame's compromising link with the De­based not on academic criteria, but on a fense Department. For all of its short range
contractual agreement made some years benefits of finance and expediency, the 
ago. 
blossoming relationship between the mili­tary and the universities can only beWhile the latter two questions can be detrimental both to the university and todebated on their own merits, anything but the people it serves. Already, in spite of a rather academic decision seems to ride on President Eisenhower's warnings in 1961, wethe answer to the first question: is military have observed the threat to national sensi­training compatible with the function and bility, sensitivity, and yes, even security,goals of a university? 
created by the marriage of military and industry. If universities do not get out now,If the answer be no, it is clear that the there is every indication that the famouscredit and the professorships must leave the double complex will expand to a tripartitecampus along with the program itself. If, arrangement along the lines of a Military­however, ROTC is thought to be a legiti­Industrial-University complex. Such amate university activity, its status as curri­hodgepodge of role-confusion, conflict ofcular or extracurricular does not seem to be interests, and cast aside checks and ba­all that significant. 
lances, we don't need. Father Hesburgh concerned himself with 
this question of the functions and goals of What many insist we do need, though, a university in a recent conference called are young officers with a liberal education The Task of Universities in a Changing 
to somehow "humanize" the Armed Scr­World. "The university," he pointed out, ·vices. The contention that ROTC is neces-· sary for this is not convincing. If after four
"has always been society's most persistent years of freely examining (as a civilian) theand tenacious critic_ Today, university pro­issues and the principles of military service, fessors and students, and some adminis­a man decides to serve, then an expandedtrators, arc profoundly concerned about postgrad OCS program could make him anthe quality of life, or lack of it, in America officer. Unless perhaps the military is inter­and in the world at large. One thing is ested in getting boys into the ranks he.fore
required for the honest critic he must they have thought such things out, a four
somehow be detached from the world he year delay in training would have no
criticizes, he must be independent, autono­adverse effect on the liberalizing clement
mous and free." deemed so important. We couldn't agree more. It is important to recall, however, like the song goes, that Universities must begin immediately to "Freedom Isn't Free." Father Hesburgh disassociate themselves from ROTC not and other university officials surely must necessarily as a hostile rejection of what realize that if Notre Dame really is to be the military stands for, but necessarily as independent, auwnomous and free, it is an insurance of their vital and unique going to be so at the expense of close position as unbiased scholarly critics in university involvement with the likes of the today's world. Notre Dame's present con­defense establishment. As the. defense bud­tracts with the Army, Navy and Air Force get soars past the $80 billion mark, Mr. must expire without renewal. If the De­Laird naturally should be subjected to fense Department decides to set up ROTC increased scrutini:(:ation and criticism from units someplace off campus, any of the all corners, and especially from universities. 1,218 students presently enrolled in ROTC should of course be free to choose whether It is quite evident, however, that Father to continue. The university is in no posi­Hcsburgh will feel something less than free tion to make this decision for its students; to criticize when he glances at the list of it is, however, responsible for keeping 270 Notre Dame students who are pulling Notre Dame as an institution independent, down a $675,000 chunk of that defense autonomous and free. 
Outraged housewife Editor: I know full well that one cannot reach you through wn­scicnce, through an ordinary ap­peal to ordinary decency, or, least of all, through the 6th or 9th commandments. All those things have long ceased to have any "relevance" (oh, poor mis­used, abused, overused word!) for such as you. But there comes a time when someone simply has to risk your ridicule, your scorn and say what is in one's heart. I am a mother of five child­ren, three boys, two girls. We live ncar the university and my husband teaches there. We have taught our children that they possess the great gift of sex among other marvelous gifts. We have told them that it is indeed a wonderful and beautiful gift ... in fact, a sacred trust. Never have we permitted anyone of them to feel that there is any­thing unpleasant, dirty or shame­ful about sex. 

We have also taught them to love the Mother of Jesus and to honor her for her womanliness, her compassion, her strength, and her motherhood. 
Now I find that my daughters, uged 9 and 6, cannot walk on the campus of Our Lady un­attended hy either one of their parents, or at least one of their brothers. They neither under­stand nor enjoy the remarks that pour out of the windows. They arc just little girls, but they somehow sense the meaning of the remarks and they feel un­comfortable without even know­ing exactly why. The porno­graphy conft•rence was a sad sad event for our family . . . an opportunity to explain some things to the children ... but a sad and even heartbreaking event for us. 
I take exception to your ad for NODOZ in the April 21 issue. I take exception to your flippant attitude toward sex. But most of all, I take exception to your hypocrisy. Under the words "The Observer" ... you have "serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Com­munity." You serve all right ... but whom do you serve? There 

is a myth abounding that if one objects to the war and talks about love a lot, he is Christian and if he objects to porno­graphy, it follows that he does not object enough to war and hatred and is, therefore, not Christian. That is a lie. I object to the wanton destruction of life. I object just as much as to the wanton destruction of the life of a soul. 
One last observation. Mo~t of you will some day marry. You may have daughters. Think it over . . . is the world you arc bent on creating what you want for your daughters ... or for that matter ... your sons? 

Jeanne I. DeCelles I'.S. It just occurred to me ... is your problem perhaps arrested development'? Maybe your latrines were patrolle'd so care­fully when you were back in fourth grade that you were un­
able  to  express  yourselves  e­ 
nough  through  scatology  
then???  

Grace Hall 
l~ditor: 

Regarding Joel Connelly's let­ter in Wednesday's 0/JSh'R VHR on the naming of Crace Jlall, Joel is entitled to call 'em as he sees 'em, hut his disregard for facts makes his rhetoric suspect. 
The new high-rise ha II is not to he named for the donor, Mr. 
J. Peter Grace hut r;tther in memory of his father, Joseph P. Grace. As far as I can learn, Joel is the only one confused about this. 
J. Peter Grace is not, of course, a Notre Dame graduate, as Joel presumed without check­ing but instead a Yale graduate with an honorary degree from Notre Dame who sent three of his sons to this U nivcrsity. ' Mr. Grace happens to he generally regarded as one of America's most distinguished Catholic laymen who received The Laetare Medal in 1967. Too bad he doesn't measure up to Connelly's criteria. 
But, then, I suppose it's hard for Joel to make a correct "call" at home plate when he's usually way out in left field! 
Anti-Giuseppe 

Editor: 
After reading of the recent difficulties the sophomore class en countered in its abortive attempt to conduct business with Giuseppe's, I would like to reiterate Class President Barry Doyle's warning to the student body that Giuseppe " ... might do this to someone else." lie 
already has. 
Last fall I had the misfortune of renting Giuseppe's party room for a week end dance­
party sponsored by the lnns­bru.ck Club, the International STudent Organization and the Pan-American Club. In this in­stance, too, Giuseppe gave the club officers the impression that no written contract was neces­sary. "It's like this, boys," he said. "! make a little money, the clubs make a little money, you all have a good time and every­one is happy. Everyone gets something." When asked about the possibility of a raid, he merely pulled out a deputy's badge anti winked. 
In successive meetings, how­ever, he voiced concern, both over the outbreaks of violence at other South Bend bars and over the presence of ABC inspectors in the city. lie finally stipulated that if we could get a police officer to watch the door he would be happy to rent the room to us. We were to contact him no later than the Wednesday evening before the party to make the final confirmations. Unfortunately, after publicizing the party and hiring the officer we were casually informed by Giuseppe on Wednesday evening that he had rented out the room to another group. This action alone was reprehensible enough, out on the evening of the can­celed party we discovered. that 
Giuseppe's room was vacant. 
In view of my experiences and the experiences of the sopho­more class, I can only say that Giuseppe's formula for business is at least self-fulfilling, if not entirely ethical ... "everyone gets something." We have all gotten ours, and it looks as if the 
sophomore boycott may finally give Giuseppe his. 
Tom Jleinen 
MONDAY, APR1l28, 1969

~PA~G=E~4--------------------------~~----7N£0~ERu.El 
SENIOR WEEK 
TICKET SALES NOW AT: 
THE BOOKSTORE GILBERTS $9.00 Regular $7.50 Stockholders 
JUNIORS 
Applications are now being accepted for Chairman and committees of: 
Senior Class Fe11ow Senior Trips Senior Week Alumni Club Manager and bartenders Senior BaH 
Academic Comm. 
Social Comm. 
Business Manager 
Sports 

send to: Jack Crawford 351 Morrissey deadline: May 3rd 




Error costs N D sweep 
For the second weekend in a row the NO baseball squad has split a pair of games with their opposition. This time it was Western Michigan who divided the Friday-Saturday games, the Irish winning 5-2 at home on Friday and Western coming off with a victory at Kalamazoo, 7-6. 
The big star of the Irish win had to be sophomore Ron Schmitz. He relieved the Notre Dame ace, Jim Phelps, in the third inning with the bases loaded and nobody out. Schmitz then retired three men in a row without one Bronco touching the plate. However, Western did score on Phelps before he made 

his  exit.  Besides  this  brilliant  
fireman  performa nce,  Schmitz  
aided  his  cause  with  a  bases  

loaded double in the 4-run fourth inning for Notre Dame. The sophomore from Cleveland !snow 2-1 on the season. 
Rich Lucke was the leading hitter in the ball game with 3 hits in 4 appearances at the plate. One of his hits was a double. He had support from Schmitz, who had another safety aside from his big two-bagger, and Jim Gieselman who was 2 for 3 including a run producing triple in the seventh. 
The Broncos were held at bay, scoring single runs in the third and ninth innings. 
The game at Kalamazoo was an extra inning affair which the home team won in the eleventh inning on an errant throw by Irish shortstop Phil Krill. The error occurred with two outs and the bases jammed. There was a 3 and 2 count on the bat­ter, Dave Shoemake, and this 
permitted the runners to be go­ing with the pitch. This forced Krill to make the long throw from short and it was wide of its target. 
This was a heartbreaking defeat for the Irish who came from behind with a 4-run ninth to take the lead, 6-5 after trailing by 3. The lead didn't last long as Shoemake smashed an in­side the park homer for WMU. Shcemake was the hitting star of the day with a 4 for 5 afternoon. 

Sophomore Tom Sinnott 
suffered the loss after relieving 
Bob Arnzen in the ninth. This was Sinnott's first decision of the season. 
Leading hitters for the Irish were Tom Lux who had 2 hits in 5 trips plus 3 rbi's, and Rich Lucke and Arnzen who were both 2 for 4. John Schlukebir hit a towering home run•for the Broncos to give them their first run. 

ND scrimmage: offensive show 
Ara may not be able to "stop the snow'" as evidenced at seve­ral football games the past few falls, but he doesn't do too bad with the sunshine. 
After a week of unpredictable weather, the Irish were treated to a warm, sunny day for their second Saturday football scrim­mage. Seated in the stadium this week, the crowd watched as 73 points were totaled, some by the defense. 
The Joe Theismann-led Blues had it their own way for the early part of the work-out, scor­ing five times. Freshman Andy Huff accounted for two TO's with runs of seven and four yards. Ed Ziegler also scored from the seven and Theismann fired TO passes to fullback Jeff Zimmerman ( 14 yards) and Jim deArrieta, working at split end, (20 yards). 
Huff's second score came shortly after freshman defensive back Ed Gulyas returned a punt 60 yards. Gulyas was the crowd­pleaser of the day, even when in the coaches' doghouse. He set sail on another long punt return, but fumbled the ball at the twenty while in the clear. Jim Yoder, as punter the last line of defense, came over in time to have the ball bounce into his hands. He then went 30 yards back upfield. 
Yoder and Bill Etter quarter­backed a second team rally with Cieszkowski ran over, around, and through for a 12 yard TD after Theismann, on another pass to Zimmerman, and Ziegler scored again for the first team. 
The second team defensive backfield seems to need only experience. Clarence EIIis sup­plemented Gulyus' performance by taking a stolen Theismann pass 80 yards for a scorP.. If Ellis gets s step, it's going to take someone with more than two legs to catch him. 

Standings 
American-East 

Won  L.a;t  Pet. GB  
BALT.  15  7  .682  
BOST.  10  7  .589  2%  
N.Y.  10  8  .556  3  
DET.  9  8  .529  3%  
WASH.  10  10 .500  4  
CLEV.  1  15 .063  11  
West  
OAK.  11  7  .611  
MINN.  10  71 .589  Y:.  
CHI.  8  7  .533  1%  
K.C.  8  8  .500  2  
Cal.  6  8  .429  3  
SEA.  5  11  .313  5  

Baltimore 6·10, New York 0·5 Washington 6, Cleveland 5 Detroit 7, Boston 3 California 6, Kansas City 2 Minnesota 4, Chicago 3 
(called 8% rain) Oak land 13, Seattle 5 
National-East Won lost Pet. GB CHI. 14 6 .700 ­


PITT. 12 6 .667 1 

a pair of fine runs, Yoder going 
PHIL. 7 9 .438 5 

60 yards for one score and Etter 
ST. l. 7 11 .389 6 and Parts... 
Foreign Car Service 

17 for another. John MONT. 7 11 .389 6 For All Makes and Models ... 
N.Y. 7 11 .389 6 IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 
West
USED CARS 
L.A. 12 6 .667 S.F. 12 6 .667 
2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 
see 
ATL. 11 7 .611 1 xCINN' 8 8 .500 3
Ed Moran (NO '69) 
xS.D. 8 11 .421 4% HOUS. 4 17 .190 9%



Blow Yourself 

at John's Auto Sales x-Second game not included
To 
Philadelphia 1, St. louis 0
702 Mishawaka
UPPOSTER SIZE 
Montreal 4, Pittsburgh 2
Phone: 255 -9342
2ft. X ] ·ft. 
Chicago 8-0, New York 6-3 
Send ony llod and Whit. or Color Photo 
Corner of Cedar & 
San Francisco 8-4, Houston 5·3
from 2~·4• 1 2~~· to I • 10. Vi• will wnd you a 2 ft. • l ft. BLO-UP ... portoct POP-ART 

Mishawaka Ave's. Los Angeles 10, Atlanta 0 POSTER. A125 
$] so 
San Diego 5-, Cincinnati 2· (dh.) 

ALSO: New Suzuki Bikes
walurfor • 
3 X 4 F1. Blo-Up $7.50 Add SOc !., pod. & hdlq. EACH. No C.O.O 

ATTENTION SENIORS
Add locol Solot T o• 

BE A SWINGER ! 
Se..cl O..U or Mooey Or-der lo• 

COMMONWEALTH COLLEGE BUILDER COSTS LESS! 
PHOTO POSTER, IIC 
216 E. 23nl St., DrpL M-67

and own your own Polaroid ­
New York, N.Y. 10010 

If you haye not turned 22 before 
0......1 .. ,....., 

Jan. 1, 1969, here is what you would 
It's easy, just pick up your own 
pay for our COLLEGE BUILDER PLAN: 
Driving Range 

10,000 life Paid up at 65 $13.41/mo. 15,000 life Paid up at 65 $19.56/mo.
SCRIPTO Pen at the BOOKSTORE Included in that price you have the following benefits:
Par 3 Golf Course 

Accidental death ..................................................... 3 times face amount Travel death ............................................................ 4 times face a'Tlount 
Miniature Golf Course 
Loss of one llmb ............................................................... 'iz face amount Loss of two limbs ............................... face amount (waiver of premium)
and receive a lucky number 
Loss of eyesight .................................. face amount (waiver of premium) 
OPEN --DAY & NIGHT Return of all premiums if death occurs in first 20 years of policy (weather permitting) 
Full Military Coverage COMPARE before you buy Deferred Premiums contact: KEN EVERETT Plus other benefits 287-8891 

from the cashier. 
The third drawing will be held TODAY. PLAYLAND 

GOLF CENTER 

The Observer is published daily during the college semester except 
1700 Lincoln Way East

vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The South Bend, Ind. Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, 
Phone 288-0033 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 








