
World leaders mourn Eisenhower's death 
WASHINGTON' (UPI) It manifested itself again and gray powder smoke drifted un1oo1<ers numoermg m the Eisenhower's body will lie in ·yesterday when his body, over the Capitol grounds. thousands ignored the cold bleak

ITMH telegrams\ 
.state until today when it will be followect by his grieving family, The casket was gently carried weather of Palm Sunday to returned to Washinton National the mighty of the land and a up the steps by the Honor Guard silently salute the dead general

Ike's widow 
Cathedral for duneral services. lone riderless black horse, was and placed in the Rotunda who twice served as President. Rubbing shoulders were mem­
Burial will be in Abilene, Kan., borne on a creaking Army where every sound was amplifiedFather Theodore M. llesburgh bers of the Cabinet, the entire
Wednesday. A funderal train will caisson to the Capitol down by echoes from the vaulted
sent a telegram to Mrs. Dwight historic Constitution Avenue. Supreme Court, the Joint Chiefs
take Eisenhower back to his dome.
D. Eisenhower on Friday 
boyhood home. As the horse drawn caisson 1hen after a breathless pause of Staff, Vice President Spiro T. 
expressing his sympathy over the of silence, Nixon stepped to the
A people's homage to a dead reached the foot of the Capitol, Agnew, Bovs. Nelson A.
death of her husband. General foot of the coffin and spoke of Rockefeller of New York andhero began Saturday at the a bright sun broke through theEisenhower visited here in 1952 served
overcast for the first time since the man he had as vice Lester Maddox of Georgia, Newand I960, and he participated in Cathect :al as an estimated president. 

a Notre Dame sponsored event 60,000 passed by his casket in a thr procession began. York Mayor John V. Lindsay 
During his eulogy in tht
chapel to pay their last farewells. A 21 gun salute boomed out and wa,rtime comrades_ in~arms.
of the battle of Gettysburg in Rotunda of the Capitol, Foreign dignitaries, members 1963. 
President Nixon said that he of Congress, the nation's govern­
In his telegram Father 
knew Mrs. Eisenhower would ment and military leaders, and
llesburgh emphasized Ike's 
permit him to share the words of Eisenhower's own grieving fam­relation to Notre Dame saying her husband on the day he died. ily stood facing the general's"II ere at Notre Dame, we Eisenhower in his last hours casket in the echoing Rotunda ascherished him as one of our said: Nixon praised the man he served most distinguished honorary "I've aiWlJ.YS loved my wife; for eight years as vice president.
alumni and a member of the I've always loved my children; DeGaulle, who arrived at Dul­family, and one of the proudest I've always loved· my les International Airport late inoccasions recorded in the annals grandchildren; and I've always the day, visited the Rotunda twoof the history of Notre Dame is loved my country." and one half hours later wearinghis visit to our campus in 1960." 
His 72 year old Widow stood his famed French army uniformlie added "I will offer a Mass for in forlorn silence, clinging to the under a great coat.
the eternal repose of his noble arm of her son, John, as Accompanied by I 5 aides, thesoul, and, with rnon urnental 
hundreds in the Rotunda 
former leader of Free French
contributions to peace and 
somberly listened to Nixon Forces in World War II salutedfreedom for all mankind ... " praise the general as "one of the again, turned on his heel andAs President, Mr. Eisenhower giants of our times." 
left. His appearance lasted less carne to Notre Dame on June 5, Mrs. Eisenhower bit her lip, than I 5 seconds.
1960, to deliver the 
blinking back the tears as the There in full dress Naval
commencement address and 
pall bearers in measured paces wasuniform Lord Mountbattenreceive an honorary Doctor of placed the flag draped casket in 
personal representative of
Laws degree. He also visited here position. 
Britain's Queen Elizabeth. An as on Sept. IS, 1952 during his "He came from the heart of Eisenhower's boay was carried
first campaign for the 
America. and he gave expression from the Cathedral , was Generalpresidency. Finally on June 29, to the heart of America and he of the Army Omar N. Bradley,
1963, General and Mrs. 
touched the hearts of the 
wearing the five star insignia onEisenhower attended a Notre world." 
the dress_blu~ uniform that only

Dame sponsored Field Mass held "He remained to his final days 
he is now entitled to wear. as part of the centennial the world's most admired and 
Nixon held his right hand overobservance of the Battle of respected man, truly the first 
his heart. Besides Lord Mount­Gettysburg. 

citizen of the world," said other countries were
batten, Nixon. represented in the procession byWhen the rotunda ceremonies 
Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi were over, after Nixon had laid a 
of Iran, Prime Minister John 
wreath, the great vaulted cere­



Turnbull elected St. Mary's SSP 
Gorton of Australia, Grand monial hall under the Capitol 

Duke Jean and Vice President by Ann' Conway dome was opened to the public. ~ugene Schaus of Luxombourg,
Mary's students could have next year as Student Body President. 
Visitors filed past the casket on 
'residetn Sir Sertse Kanma ofyear." JJf feel good that the campaign is 

Susan Turnbull was elected a black velvet draped catafalque B o t_swana, Deputy Prime
Miss 1 urn bull enters oifice over. It's kind of a relief to get

Saint Mary's Student" Body first used for Abraham Lincoln Minister Frank Aiken of Ireland
May I. Until that time she will rid of the strain of

President by a margin of sixty at the rate of 70 persons a and J oraji Desai, deputy prime
acquaint herself with the various campaigning."

votes over her oppo•.cnt, minute. minister of India.
offices and duties of the StudentBarbara Curtin. 

Ilody President. The final vote was 27ll for 

Clark appoints Commissioners
"We arc planning to get a lotTurnbull and 217 for Curtin, of p co pie into Communitywith 7 abstentions, and 42% of Government who have not had athe student body voting. 

part in it before. Most of my by Dave Bach The unnoposed candidates for campaign was run by 'non the offices of Student Dosy Vice 
government' people and I'd like Student Union Director President, Academic Affairs to see them continue working Dennis Clark filled five impor­Commissioner and Student for me." One of Miss Turnbull's tant posts in his administration 
Representative to the Student over the weekend.
first duties wili be to set up a Affairs Council were all elected. 
Review Board to interview and He appointed Contemporary Beth Driscoll received 393 yes 
fill the forty or fifty appointed Arts Festival Chairman Patrick votes, 71 no votes, and 39 positions in the Student Dowdall as Academic Commis­abstentions for the Vice Government. sioner, David Vecchi as Social Presidency. Pam Carey running Commissioner, and "Spike" Pohl
Miss TUI nbull plans to get 
ltr­

for Academic Affaris as Student Services Commis~ion­
together with her Vice-President, 

Commissioner received 423 yes er. He also named SophomoreBeth Driscoll, soon after Easter ,\~
votes, 25 no votes, and 54 Class Vice-President James
to discuss plans for their coming 

abstentions. Karen Weller D 'Aurora as Student Union ::1~ 
year in office.

received 445 yes votes, 19 no Executive Secretary and Jay Patrick Dowdall Davi<' • Vecchi votes, and 39 abstentions for her Barb Curtin, the other Fitzsimmons , Social Commis­
competence, innovation and through lectures in academic scat on the Student Affairs candidate for Student Body, sion Special Projects Uirector leadership qualities." areas which are not offered to Council. 
plans to stay in student and Chairman of the ') unior Dowdall said that he thought everyone here---for example government, but has as yet no Parents' Weekend, as Student

Therese Ambrusko, the the purpose of the Academic Asian and Urban Studies." definity plans as to what she will Union Controller. 
present Student Body President. Commission was to "supplement Dowdall foresaw the stated that "I have every do in the government. In making the announce­the education of students in investigation of Asia, for 
confidence in Susan's ability to ments, Clark noted that he was those areas which the university instance, as a series of lectures
Miss Curtin commented that 
very pleased by the caliber of his

be Student Body President in does not provide." He said that and seminars over the year
the voting of less than a majority 
appointees. "I feel we made the

the coming year. I was, however, the Academic Commission which would look at Asia from
of students really both 
best possible selections from the would manifest this in two ways.

very disappointed in the voting different angles, such as its
candidates. She said, "I 

turnout. For me it's hard to many applications that we re "First through guest lectures by reI ig ious, cultural,
contratulate Susan on winning historical, 

understand, especially knowing ceived," said Clark. "They dis­public figures significant in their scientific development.
and hope she has a successful 

how much influence Saint play what we were looking for--particular areas, and second continued on page 2 


PAGE 2 
THE OBSERVER 



Ryan and Kelly appointed 
Student Body President elect coming year, Ryan stated that 
list of all off-campus students 

he thinks "No one has the right
Phil McKenna announced last 
and their addresses in order to 

night the appointments of to dictate where the student can 
serve them more accurately. He 

Bernie Ryan as Off-Campus live." He stated disapproval with 
feels that this area has been 

Commissioner and Pete Kelly as the recent statement on off­
neglected in the past and that 

community Relations Director. campus housing by Dean of 
the fact that a student is living in 

McKenna explained that he Students Fr. James Reihle and 
illegal housing should not stop

chose Ryan because "he knows plans to discuss matters concern­
him from registering with the 

off-campus people, is very ener­ing 0-C housing with Fr. Riehle 
0-C office. 

getic, and an extremely hard in the near future. Another 
McKennal plans to make more

worker, as he proved in the major concern of Ryan will be 
appointments tctomorrow.

campaign." He also stated that the apparent disregard for off­
Among these will be the New

his choice of Kelly was based on campus students. He plans to 
Academic Affairs Commissioner, 

the fact that "he's working in make more areas of the La 
Public Relations Director,

community relations now. He's Fortune Student Center avail­
Judicial Coordinator, Executive

able for use by 0-C students.
done a good job." 
Coordinator and Human Affairs 


Outlining his plans for the One of the first things Ryan 
Commissioner.

will do will be to get an accurate 
8-P vandalized Sat. 
RIP 
YAF opposes annexation proposal
DWIGHT DAVID EISENHOWER 
The Young Americans for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 1890-1969 
Freedom issued a statement yes­campuses. terday opposing the move by the In its statement YAF raised
-NDYR 
city of South Bend to annex the questions concerning the mo­tives behind South Bend's move. 
"We regret," the statement said, "that South Bend's interest in us is limited to a selfish financial move..."

Your last check 
Y AF also raised questions concerning the plans the city has to replace the Notre Dame Fire Department and Post Office.



from home 
They also questioned what ad­
vantages the move would offer 
Notre Dame. 
The statement also accuses South Bend of not consulting the University before making plans for the annexation. 
Frank McAleer, Public Rela­tions Chairman of Y AF, said the organization is currently making plans for demonstrations over the issue. 

just bounced? 
APO Blood Drive

Think it ove~ over coffee. 

Wed.-April16

TheThink Drink. 
9-3:30 Stepan Center 
Call Bob Miko-1057 

For your own Think Drink Mug, send 75C and your name and address to: Think Drink MuR, Dept. N, P.O. Box 559, New York, N.Y.10046. The International Coffee Organization. 

Still Sells Europe's Finest Automobiles 

knowledge of the destruction,
The Breen-Phillips lounge was 
but noted that the hall security

ransacked early Sunday morning 
guard normally leaves the hall at

by an unknown group of vandals 
6:45 a.m., which would be at

who destroyed pool tables, 
least an hour after the vandalism

record players, torphies, and 
occurred. 

even furniture in the hall. 
Joe Polito, member of the B-P
The time of the vandalism was 
judicial board, indicated that the

reported to be between 4:00 
security guard may not have 

a.m., when the student lounge 
been present when the unknown 

manager left, and 5:30 a.m., 
assailents did the damage. Both

when B-P student Andy 
he and hall president John Knorr

Donnerwich discovered the 
declined to make any further

malicious work. 
comment pending a meeting
Donnerwich was able to take 
with hall rector Rev. James

photographs of the wreakage for 
McGrath and the hall Judicial 

use as evidence. 
Board. The ·Board will
Notre Dame Security Director 
investigate the matter and issue a

Arthur Pears disavowed any 
statement later today. 

Clark names staff 
continued from page 1 
The Academic Commission hopes to have a few more conferences similar to those of this year and sponsor more cultural events. 
However Dowdall said that there were no definite plans for the remainder of this year. He said that the commission has a very low budget and that the Contemporary Arts Festival will be running from April 17 through 26, leaving only the few days of May prior to exams for SUAC events. But he said that he would like to get the faculty involved in some symposiums for May. He summarized by saying that the "Academic Com mission will be subject oriented rather than personality oriented." 
Social Commissioner Vecchi said that he hoped to improve the Social Commission in two main areas. He wants to avoid ticket mix-ups, like those involving the Young Rascals last fall, by selling tickets to students at least a week in advance of the concerts and continuing the sales during the week before opening them up to South Bend. He also said that he planned to get information to the students about commission activities sooner. 
He said it is much too early to tell which groups will be appearing next year. They have made some tentative offers and contacts, but they probably won't be definite until the summer. He may send out concert information when football ticket information is sent out to the parents. 
In addition he said that he wished to make some changes in Mardi Gras and Homecoming. "Some of the events are becoming less popular," he said. "We would like to get rid of some dead weight. And as for Grand Prix, a lot depends on how it goes this year. But we expect to expand it." 
Vecchi also said that he would like to have some smaller concerts next year. 


PIZZA HUT 
N.D. Beer Night 

-Every Monday 7:30-1 A.M. $1 pitcher 
Pizza Smorgasbord 
-Every Monday and Tuesday 5:30-7:30 All you can eat plus one soft drink $1.35 
Carry Out ... Check Discount Rates for your hall and club parties 
see Jaguar George at: 

No. 1 1738 Lincolnway East 288-6060 No. 2 2307 E. Edison 
PEPPER'S IMPORTED CARS 
233-3827 
3105 W. Sample Street South Bend, Indiana 46619 phone 289-7788 

The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's
Special price, for students on the 
College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box
poverty program, as most of us are. 
~~5 ~g.tre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind., 

Professor of Sociology and An­

See-Ed Moran (N.D. WSND's 640 Marathon
thropology. was walking from Morris Inn to the Faculty Club 
o9) at John's Auto s Sales when a car driven by Edward 
702 Mishawaka 

640 Records in a Row nior, struck him in the side. No Minch, an Arts and Letters Ju­
Phone: 255-9342 
arrest was made. Mrs. Hassenger stated yester­

April Fool's Day Celebration
Corner of Cedar & Mishawaka day, "The doctors. haven't said 
Ave's. how long he'll be in the hospital, but it looks as if he'll come 
ALSO: New Suzuki Bikes
home tomorrow." 

on WSND640
ATTENTION SENIORS 
COMMONWEALTH COLLEGE BUILDER COSTS LESS! 

Robin Kicking Radio At Notre Dame
If you have not turned 22 beforeRobert Hassenger 

Jan. 1, 1969, here is what you would Rohert llassenger, a Notre pay for our COLLEGE BUILDER PLAN: Dame faculty member, was 10,000 Life Paid up at 65 $13.41 /mo. 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::. 
struck by a car driven by a Notre 15,000 Life Paid up at 65 $19.56/mo. Dame student, Friday night 
Included in that price you have the following benefits: 

while walking across Notre 
Accidental death ..................................................... 3 times face amount Dame Ave I Travel death ............................................................ 4 times face amount Loss of one limb...............................................................'lz face amount
County Sheriff's Deputies im­






evlon
Loss of two limbs ............................... face amount (waiver of premium)
mediately rushed him to St. Loss of eyesight.................................. face amount (waiver of premium) Joseph's Hospital. lie is pre­
Return of all premiums if death occurs in first 20 years of policy
sently listed in fair condition with a massive bruise of the Full Military Coverage COMPARE before you buy kidney and minor facial bruises Deferred Premiums contact: KEN EVERETT 

invents 
and cuts. Plus other benefits 
287-8891 
llassenger, the Director of the Notre Dame Office of Educa­

the first
Koval testcancelled 
Professor Koval's sociology 81 

Miller
test originally scheduled for Wednesday will be postponed until after Easter. 



il-Free
makes it
FINAL MEETING !Iampton County 
N.A.A.C.P. Easter Project 
right! 



Ma eup!
Tonite 4th Floor La Fortune 7:00p.m. Here's the first makeup that can't ..feed"
PEPPER'S Michiana more oil to oily skin, because there's no
SPORTS CAR CAPITOL oil in it! That means it won't clog pores,
FREE 
left-over 1968 Austin-Healy 


never changes color. Holds back oily shine Sprite, brand-new. (at dealer cost) 
longer than any other makeup! Medicated
oh yes, the "free" part includes a tank full of gas to get you started 
~Flowing Lotion-Makeup2..__in 7 shades to "Fort Liquordale," Florida. 
that smooth on like silk. 

SEX REVOLUTION is ftere! 
Natural Wonder ~Flowing Lotion-Makeup'
New MGC sex cylinder-good old MGB reliability with 145 ponies­' for a measly $200 more! 
Available at: 
see Jaguar George at 

St. Mary's College Book Store 
PEPPER'S MOTORS 3105 W. SAMPLE ST. 

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: SOUTH BEND, IND. 
289-7788 

MONDAY, MARCH 31, 1969 
THE OBSERVER 

Heidecker new H PC chairman 
by Dave Fromm 
Rich Heidecker, Zahm flail President, was elected chairman of the flail Prcsidctns Council at a meeting last night in the student center amphitheater. He will only complete the term of Phil McKenna, Student President-elect, whil·h should have normally have expired in 
Octover.  
Ron  Mastriana  will  serve  
another  year  as  IIPC  
co-chairman  when  his present  

term expires in May. Mastriana was the sole cand idatc for the office. 
Heidecker viewed the IIPC as hoth a hody and a group of individuals. As a body, he said that the IIPC needetl to redefine itself. 
"We must determine where the II PC fits into the 'scheme of things'," he said. Individually, the presidents must co-operate more fully. especially in the co-ordination of activities. 
ND prof. hit by car 
tiona! Research and Assistant 
Heidecker stated, "Halls arc not only hecoming more autonomous hut arc also emerging as centers of academci and social life." Also, the IIPC is the most representative body on campus. lie therefore felt that the IIPC needed to take a more definity statd by establishing specific policies and by issuing official opinions. 
Both Heidecker and Mastriana expressed a desire to work more closely with Social Commissioner Dave Vecchi and Student Services Commissioner Boh Polll under the new administration. Both felt that the IIPC should handle as much as possible of Homecoming and Mardi Cras next year. 
McKenna, who will assume his new office tomorrow, said, "I enjoyed working with the hody as IIJ>C Chairman and would like to continue doing so as Student Body President." 
Before McKenna turned the 

meeting over to Heidecker, he 
hriefly outlined a room selection 
proposal drawn up by Rev. 
Edgar Whelen, CSC, Director for 
the Office of Student Residence. 
Each hall's freshman quota has hecn increased except for Keenan's which will remain the same and Stanford's which has hecn decreased. 180 freshmen have been apportioned to each of the new dorrns. "Freshmen will compose ctosc to 30% of the total occupancy in every hall," McKenna said. 
Massey named chairman 
Dr. James L. Massey, profes­sor of electrical engineering at Notre Dame, has been elected chairman of the group on infor­mation theory of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engin­eers. Massey joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1962 after receiving his doctorate from the Massachusetts Institute of Tech­
.,....no_I_o_g_y_.__________ 
USED CARS 


Sophomore Literary Festival in 
Foreign Car Service 

Washington Hall Friday night. 
and Parts ... 
For All Makes and Models ... 

Barth, a professor of English at the 
IMPORT AUTO 288-1811 2416 MISHAWAWKA AVE. 

New York State University at But­
falo, read for 90 minutes from his work "Lost in the Fun House." 
~~------~~~~~~~-------------~ 
THE OBSERVER.
PAGE 4 



In NCAA event 
Fencers finish sixth 
It marked the second straightThe trio of Bob Mendes, State, Raleigh, N.C. 

year the Irish finished sixth inBob Babineau and Joe DePietro Team scoring showed this meet and their fifth time in

carried Notre Dame to a Pennsylvania 52, Harvard 43, the last years to place in the topsixth-place tie over the weekend Columbia 42, Navy 41, CCNY ten, under the tutelage of Coachin the NCAA fencing 38, Notre Dame 36, Army 36, Mike DeCicco. 
championships at North Carolina Detroit 36. 
Sabre specialist Mendes zipped off a 7-1 record in Thursday's opening round,


NBA underdogs winnn 
losing only to Bob Webb of Air Force. Friday, his 7-4 mark was 

(UP 1)-The underdogs up their their win-and a 3-0 second in that weapon, but the continue to have a ball in the margin-over the startled Los field caught up Saturday. National Basketball Association Angeles Lakers. Babineau was ninth overall in playoffs. Both the wise old The Celtics punished the the foil. He also broke fast with Boston Celtics and the brash 76ers Sunday, 125-118, on a 5-3 report card Thursday and a New York Knickerbockers hold Philadelphia's home floor and 9-2 log Friday. DePietro got into 



3-0 leads in the best of seven the Knicks went to Baltimore the epee semifinals Friday with a Dwight Murphy (left) and Bob Whitmore have been competitions over the favored where they rallied to whip the 5-4 chart Thursday. His 4-7 
selected for the Indiana College All-Star team which meets
Philadelphia 76ers and Baltimore bullets 119-116. Philadelphia chart in the semis fell just two 
Kentucky in their fourth annual game April 11-12. Johnny
Bullets. In the West, the San staged a desperate rally in the points shy of placing him in the 
Dee will coach the Hoosier standouts. 
Fransisco Warriors were waiting final five minutes to close from finals. 
for tonight in hipes of picking 112-101 to 119-117 with 1:47 lllllllllllalllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll.lllllllllllllllllllllllllllll left, but Sam Jones and John Havlicek each made two free
Jackson hurt 
throws to keep t,he Celtics safe. Jones and Havlicek finished the


in first drill 
night with 55 points between 

Irish halfback ErnieJackson, them, with Jones taking the getting a shot at offensive honors with 28. Philadelphia's halfback this year, twisted a Billy Cunningham topped all 
knee Friday-the opening day of scorers with 33, but the 76ers spring football drills for some 90 may have lost Chet Walker, one Notre Dame footballers. of theistarting forwards, for the .ar Due to inclement weather, critical fourth game Tuesday at 
The other fellow is 21-year-old Darrel Cahney,
coach Ara Parseghian ran his lads Boston. Walker sprained a Woody deserves one five years younger that Woodward. Chaney,through their paces in the ligament in his right knee during looked upon as the Reds' next boy wonder, switch Convocation Center Friday and first half action. 
TAMPA, Pia. (UPI)-They'll be handing out the hits and delivers the long ball, two thingsSaturday. Ara has tentatively The Knicks squandered a 15 big movie awards soon and at least one of the Woodward doesn't do. He also had 35 baseball
slated an outdoor session today. point lead and trailed the Bullets 
candidates is unhappy about it. scholarships, which Woodward never had either,Jackson was running a pass by 8 0-70 during the third 
but he has considerable to learn about playingpattern unmolested Friday when period, but the sharp shooting Joanne Woodward is up for an academy award shortstop and the guy helping him every way hehe sustained the injury. It is and rebounding of Willis Reed as best actress for her sensitive portrayal in can is Woodward, the one with the most to Jose.
expected to keep him out a few brought them back to 108-107 "Rachel, Rachel," and naturally she isn't put out 
days. at the 5: I 7 mark of the final about that, but she is over the fact that among Superstars usually work that way, not ordinary period. Walt 'Frazier put New those not nominated was the director, Paul ballplayers. Woodward is no superstar. lie's no York in front, 115-114, with Newman, who also happens to be her husband. ordinary ballplayer either. If he can help

Ruggers win 

somebody else, he will and doesn't thing that'sI:35 left, nad the Knicks were Her firs~ cousin, William Frederick Woodward, unusual. That makes his more unusual yet.
leading 117-116 with 35 seconds better known as Woody Woodward, isn't in the
Spearheaded by the 
remaining to clinch it for New movie so he isn't up for an award. ''Somebody helped me," he says, going back asophomore due of Bill Berry and 
York. ·He should be though. few years to when he was with the Braves. "ICharlie Blum, Notre Dame's "A" 
Reed was high gun with 35 broke in as a shortstop but Mr. Bobby Bragan, the
rugby side knocked off Palmer Woody Woodward plays short stop for the
points, and controlled the mam,ger, wanted me to Jearn how to play second
Institure of Iowa for the first Cincinnati Reds and although he has absolutely
boards with 19 rebounds. base, too. Frank Bolling was the ·'Qne who taught
time ever Satufday-a 15-7 nothing to do with the Academy of Motion
Frazier ended with 26 points, .ne. We roomed together three years and he
victory on stepan Center field. Picture Arts and Sciences he rates some kind of
Dave DeBusschere with 24 and impressed me more than any ballplayer I've ever
special award for being some kind of special
Bradley with 22. Kevin met."
ballplayer.

Loughery paced Baltimore with Woodward eventually took over the Braves'
Mudron bows He'll tell you himself he's no superstar and his
29 and Monroe had 27. second base job and Bolling drifted out of
.233 lifetime average supports that, but there's 
Notre Dame Heavyweight Pat The Knicks and Baltimore baseball. A guy sitting on the Reds' bench
something he doesn't tell you, something you have 
Mudron was bumped out in the resume play Wednesday night in remembered that and suggested Woodward that
to see for yourself and that something is what
New York. Bolling had actually helped him take away his job.
first round of the NCAA 
makes him rather special.

wrestling championships The fourth playoff series in "I guess that's about what it came down to " 
The first time in his six major league seasons,
progress-Atlanta vs. San Woodward said. ' 
Thursday at Brigham Young U., 

Woodward has been told he has a regular job this
Diego-sees the third game
Salt Lake City. Mudron dropped Perhaps the biggest booster Woody Woodward 
year. It means a Jot to him. An awful lot. As much 
played Tuesday night in San 
an 8-4 decision to Dan Kraft of has around here is Dave Bristol and he's a good
it means, he's still helping another fellow take
Diego, with Atlanta holding a as 
Northwestern. one to hve because he manages the Reds. Bristol 
away.
2-0 edge. 

says Woodward will be his regular s'1ortstop. 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Tile Cincinnati manager said it tl" e first time this winter after he okayed a deal which sent Leo Cardenas, his previous regular shortstop, to Minnesota for pitcher Jim Merritt. Bristol's statement meant a Jot to Woodward who never before was told by anyone that he had a regular



The lrii§Jb Eye 

job. "This is something I've been looking forward to By Terry O'Neil, Observer sports editor all winter," he says about the prospect of playing regularly. 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
That doesn't stop him from helping Chaney all he can in any way he can, or from having helped 

The dock is running out 
Frank Duffy, another kid shortstop who was up earlier this spring with the Reds.

Ten, nine, eight, seven, six . .. staff next September. Total 161-45-8 It has been a fine year for athletics There are ballplayers who can't remember tha
Admittedly, the figure is balooned
The clock is running out on this 

at Notre Dame. Consider this string of last town they were in, much Jess the first fellow columnist. Following the lead of Joel 
somewhat by the sailors, whose 

won-loss records since last fall. ever to help them but Woodward remembers both Connelly, I move from the Observer to 
scoring system dictates that a victory

Football 7-2-1 and also has a habit of remembering to be rightthe Scholastic tomorrow. It has been 
is counted for each school beaten in

Rugby-A 5-2 there anytime someone needs his help. He sees
these 10-15 boat regattas. But then

sometimes thrilling, sometimes Rugby-B 6-1 nothing strange about that. disa p pointing, always educational understand that these are only dual
LaCrosse 0-1 "That's the only way to do it," he says. "And
experience. Certainly it will be that meet records and do not include Notre 
Soccer 5-3-1 the only way I know how." 
way for my replacement, Mike "The Dame victories like the Rochester
Cross country 2-2 We ody Woodward wouldn't want, but there
Man" Pavlin, otherwise known as Invitational wrestling tourney or the "Jeesch," an Arts Letters sophomore Detroit Invitational swimming meet or should be some kind of award for that.
Frosh Football 2-0-1 Sailing 60-5

from Wilmington, Del. individual triumphs like the ones by
Basketball 20-7 Bill Hurd and the Irish two mile relayMy thanks go to many people, Frosh haskell 5-5 
swuad in indoor track meets.

especially to a hard-working Indoor track 2-0 
However, the total figure gives youstaff--Pavlin Pete Bruderle, Terry Swimming 6-6 an idea of where this University isShields and Greg Wingenfeld. Only Wrestling 8-2-1 

going in athletics.

Wingenfeld graduates this spring; the Fencing 16-1 other three return to the Observer Hockey 16-8-3 .. . six, jive, four, three, two, one. 





