
Jim Hunt This was the scene yesterday afternoon as ND students clashed among themselves over the recruitment of Dow and the CIA. 
Fifteen minute rule enacted for the first time 
Protestors meet, plan to continue demonstration against Dow-CIA 
said that the County Sheriff will
out in the foyers and the

by Dave Fromm read and post the injunction
hallways," Mcinerney said. 
tomorrow morning outside the
Those who block the

Close to 200 students met in 
Placement Bureau Ofice.
entrances will be in violation ofthe LaFortune Ballroom last 

Students who violate the
a court injunction prohibitingnight to discuss yesterday's 

injunction will be in contempt
student interference with thedemonstration against recruiters 

of court and as a result may, or
interviews. The injunction wasfrom Dow Chemical Company 

may not, be arrested, he said.
requested by the University andand the Central Intelligence 

Professor Schaeffer suggested
issul~d yesterday by the St.

Agt•nry and to plan today's 
Joseph Superior Court. It takes that students should submit toaction. 

arrest, if it comes, without
the matter out of the

Brian Mel nerney, organizer of violent opposition.
University's hands and places itthe demonstr<Jtion, said that in those of the St. Joseph The injunction reads, in part:st lllknts would reenter the 

County Sheriff. The University of Notre Dame

Administration· Building this 
d u Lac, Plaintiff vs. Fred

morning at 9:00 to continue the Thomas L. Schaeffer, 
Dedrick, Richard Libowitz,

protest. Professor and Associate Dean of 
Timothy MacCarry, Brian

" So m e wiII b I o c k t he Law was on hand at the meeting 
Mcinerney, Sr. Jean Malone,

doorways; others will be sitting to explain the injunction. He 
(c:untinued on page 8) 

by Rick Smith and Riehle pointed out that the bill had never been submitted to the
Glen Corso 

Student Life Council hence was
The demonstr.tlion yesterday not in force. lie said that he
afternoon against recruitment on intended to get an injunction to
campus by Dow Chemical Com­clear demonstrators.
pany and the CIA ended with "The University is acting as a
the expulsion of approximately host of the recruiter for the
8 students when the University's students. The question over a
"I 5 minute rule" concerning dis­public presentation belongs to
ruptive demonstrations was en­the industry. The students
acted. There were I00 students blocking the door are in viola­
present. 

tion of University regulations,"Fr. R ichle, Dean of Students he stated.
confronkll those blocking the The Dow recruiter then went
door and invoked Fr. Hesburgh's from his office into Father
"15 minute rule" against them. Thornton's and the students
He said, "You have I 5 minutes to clear this doorway. I have no blocking the door moved out of choice, you have forced my the way. lie retl'rncd several hand." Riehle then walked 
minutes later and the demonstra­away, and was accosted by sev­tors returned to blo~.:k the door. eral demonstrators and members According to McKenna, the fif­of the press. John Ragsdale, a teen minute rule was no longer student, asked Riehle whether or in effect since the removal of the not the "open forum bill" pass­blockade represented a "cease and desist" action hy the de­
ed by tt.c Student Senate ap­

South Bend riot police, who were deputized St. Joe County deputy sheriffs by Elmer Sokol wait out­side the administration building for the call to enter. ' plied in this situation. Father (continued un paKe 8) 




r 
THB OBSERfJER. 
WEDNESDAY,NOVEMBER1~1969
PAGE 2 

R ocap comments oncontroversial leaflet 
by Larry Pino Jim Rocap, head of Students Against Racism, commented yesterday on the first issue of Incite, which was distributed to Notre Dame students. The leaflet was designed to draw a comparison between the American Revolution, contemporary America, and the black man in the American society. In pointing out objections by students, Rocap stated that presentation of the material in the issue was inadept; however, the issues were valid. The statement, "Your Senate Budgetary Allowance At Work!", was considered by many to be an immature poke at the functioning of the Senate. Rocap suggested that it is only due to the "curious lack of humor" on the campus this year that such a comment was found objectionable. He continued, "We have to be able to sit back and laugh at ourselves." 
Another objection prompted apology. The last of a series of equations found an analogy between the "American Volunteers shooting Redcoats in the back, Viet Cong atrocities and guerilla warfare, and Panthers shooting pigs". Rocap affirmed that such an analogy showed an absence of respect for human life, and was therefore intolerable. In short, he found the leaflet alienated a number of 
cf}Aany-have moved_ 
but the ~ulists 
8taj/'On... 
The Paulists arrived on the West Side of New York City in 1858. In 1895 they moved into San Francisco's China­town and into the fringes of Chicago's Loop in 1904. They're still there. Times change. Neighborhoods change. Sometimes tHey go up. Sometimes .they go down­but through it all the Paulist stays. As long as there are people ,to be served the Paulist will be there. 
The Paulist may be in the same old place but he con­stantly does new things. That's one of the characteristics of the Paulist order: using their own individual talents in new ways to meet the needs of a fast-changing world in the col­leges .•. in communications ••• in the ghettos. Ifyou have given some thought to becoming a Priest, write for an illustrated brochure and a copy of our recent Renewal Chapter Guidelines. Write to: 
Vocation Director 
CJ>a"J;}therG 
Room 200 415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 
students. 
Several other points in Incite were in the form of equations. In one, "George Washington, Ho Chi Minh, and Eldridge Cleaver" were compared; while another presented the "Boston Tea Party, sabotage, and looting and rioting" as an analogy. The leaflet was a special. It begins: "It is Moratorium Week. 

Apollo 12 craft lands on target, on time 
SPACE CENT_ER, Houston 
(~PI)d ~~0 . Amenca~· as7~nau_~ : eere e~ spa_ces tp ~ r~~~ 
o an amazmg, pm-pomt an mg among the gapmg craters of the 
on rly t d t b . , 
~o ea o ay . o egm rna~ s frrst true exploration of an alien
ld 
wor · 
"There it is, there it is...son of a gun ... right down the middle of 
the road. I can't believe t't. Fan­asticd," exclaimed spaceship com-man er Charles "Pete" Conrad when his Apollo 12 landing site on the lunar Ocean of Storms came in sight. Touchdown came at l :55 
a.m. EST, just as the sun was rising over the tortured brownish gray surface of the moon. 
Accompanying Conrad on the hazardous journey was space 
k. 1 L B k' h'
roo te A an . ean, rna mg ts 
f. t fl' ht · t A th' d
rrs tg m o space. rr astronaut, Richard F. Gordon kept the command ship Yankee 
~!~f~h~e ~h~~ l~~~e:.igh lunar 
The Apollo 12 explorers will spend 32 hours on the lunar surface, 10 more than Neil A. Armstrong and Edwin E. Aldrin, the men who first reached the moon last July. Conrad and 
NEW JERSEY CLUB 
Final Thanksgiving Bus Sales -Also Christmas Plane Sales 
Tonight 7·8 PM Coke Bar Rathskellar 

1------------------------------L-------------,
Ohio, will also be on the panel. Mr. Kellogg has sat on the City Council for 18 years. Marjorie Parker (Mrs.
Splros Men's Shop 

Barrington D. Parker), a professor of History andsince 1891 downtown South 
Bend Philosophy of Education and Director of Student teaching, District of Columbia Teachers
Clothing by Hart, Shaffner and Marx~ Van Heusen, College, will provide an added dimension to the panel. Mrs.
Pendleton and Jantzen 
Parker is also on the Board of 
Directors of the Women's Africa 
Committee, an affiliate of the 

lo-----------------------------------------tAfrica-American Institute. 
N"otre D"ame and St. Mary's Students you're iirivited 
OPEN HOUSE NOTRE DAME I.A W SCHOOl. 
Saturday, December 6, 10a.m. 
Free Lunch 
Program by Dean and Faculty 
I. LSAT exam, what it is and how to take it 
2. 
Legal Education Opportunites in U.S. 

3. 
Admissions and Scholarships at Notre Dame 

4. 
Program and methods at Notre Dame 

5. 
Career Opportunities in Law 


Please call or write Admissions Office, Law 
School, for reservations -283-6626, 7092, 7015, 
or 7528. 

--------------------------------------------------------~~~------------------~ 

Consider the following parallels with wars of liberation. This country was founded during a war of liberation from a colonial power and on a principle of self-determination. Consider the rhetoric of the Vietnamese National Liberation Front and parallel this rhetoric with that found in the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution." The format 
Bean will gather about 100 
pounds of soil samples and set 
up a nuclear powered scientific 
base. 
Although the astronauts were 
. . l
sometimes lynca in describing their arrival at moon, their first
d f · 
wor s were a ter the Intrepid
landed were all busm·ess · 
''Contact light ... Drop...
probe " Be ·d 
, an sat . Conrad and Bean flew to a landing that ground controllers 
said appeared to be within 1, 120 feet of the Surveyor 3 space­craft, a robot camera ship which 
touched down on the moon in 1967. It was well within the hull's eye target 
.
They will remain in the 23 foot high Intrepid until 6:09 
a.m. when they were scheduled 
t ak h f' f
o m e t e rrst o two separate
lk h t ld t t 1
spacewa s t a cou o a as much as eight hours. A pinpoint landing was one of the key 
~~~~t~:e; ~~~~=dA:n~l~e~~ ;ii~~ 
neered the techniques involved in such descents. Such landings will be necessary in order to get the information that scientists want frqm future missions in the rugged lunar highlands. 

continues with a series of statements and comparisons. Rocap summed up his 
position. "We wrote the news sheet with our own method of thinking. We disregarded the fact 
that others think differently. In this we were wrong. However, we believe the facts that the , news sheet presented were valid; only the manner in which they were presented was wrong." 
The Apollo 12 landing site was on the western side of the moon's visible face in the Ocean of Storms, 954 miles west of the 
Sea of Tranquillity where Ap ll 

o o
11 landed. The site was between two unnamed craters. In one of the 
·t h

PI s rests t e now dead Surveyor 
spacecraft that landed on the moon April 20, 1967, and flash­ed 6,315 television pictures back to earth. Conrad and Bean hope to be able to walk to the Surveyor 'illd bring parts of it back to earth to determine how it has weathered its long stay on the moon. "H H t I t 'd " 
ey, ous on, n rept ' 
Conrad called several minutes after touchdown. 
"I think I did something I said I'd never do. I believe I shut that beauty off in the air before 
tion at touchdown.
touchdown."

s h d J 81 I
I., 
c e u e 

"Blacks in the Political Parties" will be the topic of a panel discussion tonight . at 
8:00 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. The problems of how the Black can relate to the political parties and how the Black can gain from becoming involved in the party structure will be discussed. 
The panel will be composed of three Blacks who have become leaders in Black political 
He referred to shutting off the descent engine. "Shame on you," replied Ger­ald Carr, the capsule communi­. t 
ca or.
Intrepid apparently landed 'th h f 1 f t 1 t 
WI enoug ue or a eas 
another 50 seconds of flight. Apollo ll's pilots had to dodge 
a cratar and touched down with 
40 seconds of fuel left. Jane Conrad yelled "yippee." 
An elated Sue Bean chortled,
"We did it again" and a curious• Barbara Gordon asked "I won­der how close to the Surveyor 
they are." 
Mrs. Conrad, the wife of Apollo 12 commander Charles "Pete" Conrad, watched touch­down in her bedroom with her four sons and then jumped on the bed in uncontrollable jubila­
acft pane 
involvement. Mayor Robert Blackwell of Highland Park, Michigan. will be on the panel. Mayor Blackwell is the only Black GOP-elected mayor in the country. Prior to becoming mayor, he sat on the City Council. He is a former president of Local 889 UA W and was named Secretary of the State Labor Mediation Board in 1963. 
John Kellogg, a City Councilman from Cleveland, 
The panel will be moderated by Clarence Townes of the Republican National Committee. The discussion is sponsored by the Notre Dame College Republican 
Club. 
One Dav Service NO EXTRA CIIARGB Dry Cleaning Shirt Laundry 
With each $1.50 of dry cleaning you receive a coupon worth 25 cents at McDonald's! 
410 N. Michigan Street 
The during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may 
be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, 
Ind., 46556. second dass postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
Jim Rocap 


WEDNESCAY,NOVEMBER1~1969 PAGE 3 
Recent Agnew speech criticized by WNDU 
by T.C. Treanor 
WNDU Station Manager W.T. 

Hamilton yesterday denounced 
vice president Spiro T. Agnew's 
recent Des Moines speech 
accusing the vice president of 
attacking the network's 
"veracity, credability, and 
judgement," and of "adding a 
threatening note," to 
b d
r o a cast er-go vern men t relationship. The head of the University owned and operated network said in an interview that, "we feel that the secone highest man in the government has added a threatening note; especially since networks are licensed by the Federal Government. We think that the vice president's attack on the veracity, credibility, and 
Endorses statement, committee 
The following statement con­cerning yesterday's demoll..$tfa' tions against Dow and the CIA was issued last night by a group of Notre Dame professors. 
The authorities of the University of Notre Dame must understand that the fundamental moral and political issues of our time will continually be presented on this campus so long as the University recruits students and employs personnel who take seriously the ideals to which the University is dedicated. The events of the last twenty-four hours present these fundamental issues in an inescapable way. Accordingly, we would like to make the following points: 
I) We deplore this university's subservi~nce to the political and economic system represented by 
Arms powers confer 
HELSINKI (UPI) -American and Soviet arms negotiators met yesterday for 90 minutes under an extraordinary news blackout for a conference of world scope which observers said underscored their dead serious approach to their task. 
Political group to be initiated 
A political theory study group was formed rec(~nUy at Notre Dame. The new group was or­ganized to fight "a growing wave of irrationality and anti-intellec­tualism," and "to promote the traditional goal of education, the development of the free man." 
The Orestes A. Brownson So­ciety, as the group is called, has become affiliated with the Inter­collegiate Studies Institute (lSI), which is a national organization of campus societies. 
Weekly meetings and periodic 

lectures and films are planned throughout the year. The group is expecting a lecture within a few weeks from Dr. Stephan Tonsor, a noted political scien­tist and political philosopher. 
Anyone may join the new group. Those interested in join­ing should contact either Joe Sullivan, 1009 f<'lanner, or Rev. John Beretta, 6106, in the li­brary. 
Plan meeting 
The freshmen presidential candidates got together yesterday, and agreed to meet in an open discussion with all interested frosh tonight on the second floor in LaFortune Student Center at 7:30. 
judgement of the broadcast commandment of the decalogue, 
media is unwarrented and 'Thou shalt not criticize the 
unfortunate. President," he went on. 
"The vice president says he is he 
not calling for government According to Hamilton, censorship, but 1 feel that we hasreceivedonlyeighteenletters must voice our concern for the since the vice president's speech. ultimate consequences of his call He claims that resgonse to the for TV news to be made 'more address has been about 
"50-50".
responsive to the views of the nation and more responsible to A telepole conducted by the people they serve.' When the WNDU, however, has unearthed percent as "poor." 
In another poll, WNDU completed calls to 109 people picked by sociologists as representative. Of the 109 responding, fourteen percent termed coverage "excellent" 
·thirty-one percent as "good." twenty-one percent as "fair," and fifteen per cent as "poor." In that poll, nineteen per cent were undecided. 

The same people were asked if they had listened to Vice president Agnew's speech on television. Of the respondants, thirty-six per cent said yes, sixty-four said no. 
Hamilton was careful to add that almost all the correspondance he received was "complimentary to WNDU, and our coverage of state and local affairs." 
man who holds the nation's a rather different response. Last second highest office makes an Friday, WNDU invited listeners emotional appeal to a public to call in and classify television out cry against an industry news coverage as "excellent." dependant on Governmental "good," "fair," or "poor". Of license-what is the next step?'' the four-hundred eighty-nine hesaid. respondants, twenty-two "It appears the TV industry percent classified television has sinned against a new coverage as "fair," and fifty-six the Dow Chemical Corporation action to prevent this abuse of and the Central Intelligence self-proclaimed "Christian" ·Agency. We contend that this university. Neither an injunction subservience is the central point nor the summoning of police nor at issue in the demonstrations. other forms of repressive action 2) The Administration have can obscure the moral and refused to consider the political issues involved. impropriety of allowing 3) We therefore call upon the organizations engaged in the sale President of the University to and ex port of death and end university-sponsored repression to recruit Notre Dame recruitment, to quash all civi~ students with the complete and university proceedingscooperation of the University. against participants in the They have ignored a Student ~emonstrations, and to begin the Senate resolution on the subject reform of the University to of open recruitment, thereby oppose rather than to serve the subverting the "proper outrages perpetrated by our channels" and calling into society at home and abroad. question the value of In support of these points and "no n-d isru p tive" procedures to manifest our continuingwhen a substantive political and concern for the principles theyeconomic issue is at stake. involve, we, the undersignedConsequently, they have forced members of the faculty of the undergraduates, graduates, and University of Notre Dame,faculty members into direcf hereby form a permanent organization, the University Committee for Human Rights. The world's two super nuclear We invite other members of the powers were reported to have Notre Dame community to join exchanged postion papers on with us in defending and how _to enter det~iled talks _on advancing this continuing fre~zmg and pos~Jbly reducmg concern. (signed) therr arsenals dunng the secret David Burrell, C.S.C. session in the U.S. Embassy. James W. Douglass But spokesmen for both sides Dennis J. Dugan refused to disclose any details of John C. Gerber, C.S.C. the first meeting of the Strategic Sr. Suzanne Kelly Arms Limitation Talks, except William D. McGlinn to say how long it lasted and John A. Williams when the next session would Sr. Marjorie Carey, B.V.M. take place. Ernest Bartell, C.S.C.  WANTED Student Union Secretary MWF 9 am -12 noon for ·information: call 7757  
THAT ''CHEAP THRILL" ADVERTISING BV THE PIZZA HUT IS SILLY. HOW CAN A PIZZA BE LlKE A CHEAP THRILL? THE SAME WAY A GOOD·NIGHT KISS CAN BE LIKEA FIREWORKS DISPLAY ON THE FOURTH OF uUL'f. PIZZA 11U1: Where every pi1xa's a cheap thrill 1738 Lincoln Highway East -2307 East Edison -South Bend 1400 Napanee-Elkhart  
THE FIELDHOUSE AS AN ART CENTER? IT CAN'T HAPPEN HERE (or can it) University Arts Council t---------::::T""'h=--e-S:::::::-:-tu----:d:-e-n-t~B:-o-.d-=--y--------t is cordially iirivited to watch Th Sf d U e U enf n/on smash The Student Government on the gridi11on in The Poobah Bowl Sunday, November 23, 1969 ... Another service of your2:00pm Student Union  

PAGE4 
TilE OBSERrJER. 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
DONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Publisher GAETANO DE SAPIO, Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3. 1966 

No violence today 
Yesterday a group of people used their bodies to prevent others from being interviewed 
by the CIA and Dow Chemical. Today, these same people will most likely again block 
that doorway. 
The intentions of these people are quite clear to us. They plan to actively show their 

non-violent resistence to a system they no longer believe in. We have no doubt that they 
fully realize the consequences of their actions and are willing to accept them. 
It is, therefore, extremely important that the members of this community honor their 

decision by not interfering in the activities that take place today. If the police should 
enter the campus today, it will be to enforce a court injunction that several people are 
violating. Anyone who obstructs the enforcement of this court order must fully realize 
their actions and have made the same moral commitment as the others. 
On the other end of the spectrum, it is necessary for those who disagree with the views or actions of the demonstrators to realize that the matter is now in the hands of the civil authorities and should be left there. Anyone who takes the law into his own hands is also in 
contempt of the h1w and should suffer the same consequences for breaking that law. 
What this campus does not need is a mob scene. If and when, the police enter the 
Administration building today, everyone must realize that they represent the law of this 

country. We are not playing games; the whole issue has now moved outside of the 
University structure. We are dealing with a higher law with higher power and our 

responsibilities arc now real responsibilities. 
This is no time for emotions to take over, or for anyone to jump on a bandwagon. In 

order to keep peace, each of us has a role to play; the people in that doorway must live 
up to the responsibility of their commitment, as must the police live up to theirs. The rest 
must honor those commitments. 
Administrative errors 
The first test of the fifteen minute meditation cease and desist rule has occurred. The 
situation remains to be resolved but before it becomes further clouded a few of the 
mistakes already made need to be commented on. 
Although the policy might be effective in some sense as a deterent to protestors it was 
proven yesterday that its technical aspects are not totally workable. Primarily this was 
displayed in the actions of some administrators who did not completely understand their 
roles in the entire process. 
The ultimate responsibility for determining whether a demonstration is disruptive rests 
with the Dean of Students Father Riehle. He exercised his role quite prudently for the 
most part, consulting student leaders before invoking the policy in the hope that they 
would be able to convince the demonstrators to leave the building. When it became 
obvious that the group of about ten would not leave positions in front of the door he 
gave them I 5 minutes to clear a path. 
From that point on, however, the situation began to deteriorate. I 5 minutes later 
Father Riehle came back to collect IDs. He immediately began to take them from the 
students who were blocking the door, the only ones who were participating in the 
"disruptive" demonstration. Somewhere Arthur Pears, Director of Security, got the idea 
that he was supposed to start collecting IDs too. He began indiscriminately taking cards 
from everyone in the area-students who weren't participating in the demonstration, and 
members of student government and of the campus news media who were there 'in official 
capacities. Even though it was announced last night, that although their ID had been 
taken they were not suspended the incident points out the lack of understanding of the 
various roles that administration officials are to play and the lack of foresight and 
common sense on the part of Mr. Pears. 
Police were not used to break up the demonstration yesterday but they were still on 
campus. The amazing fact is that they were on campus without the knowledge of anyone 
in the administration. Apparently Father Riehle had notified South Bend Sheriff Elmer 
Sokol earlier in the day that the university might need some assistance. This is standard 
procedure according to the Dean of Students. Sokol deputized some South Bend police 
and game them instructions to get prepared in case anything happened. His men however, 
interpreted his statement as an order to come out to campus and wait around. They did 

just that and almost precipitated a crisis. 
In the future we feel that the lines of communication must be more open to prevent 
the unauthorized and undesired presence of police on campus. Father Riehle is to blame 
for not being totally in control of the situation. Sokol is to blame for making a statement 
to his . men which almost resulted in unwanted confrontation between police and 
students. 
The police who did come to campus were equipped with night sticks, helmets and 
everything else necessary for a riot. If the police are to ~orne to cantpus to assh;t in 
removing people who are disrupting the normal operations then they must come with the 
attitude of resolving the situation peacefully and not of provoking a confrontation. 

The entire day proves the need for the SLC to hasten its examination of Father Hesburgh's policy and provide amendments to some of the clauses that are unworkable or are misapplied. While they are at it the SLC should strive to finish their investigation of the placement bureau in order to answer some questions that the community is raising abou~ its policies. 
The opinions in the editorials, news analyses, and columns of The Observer are solely those of the authors and editors of The Observer, and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administrations, faculty or student bodies. 

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1969 
~~~ 

Time waits for no man. 
Cbris Wolfe 
/' 
J 

What a joke! 
If there is one thing that Notre Dame students have a lot of, it is 
paper. If it's not election campaign material, or radical propaganda 
against GE, Dow Chemical, motherhood, and the world in general, 
then it's something else. But the Students Against Racism have 
outdone all previous attempts to harass people with such material, 
by sending to each room a statement o1 considerably less value than 
the ink and paper expended on it. 

The name of the sheet is "Incite!" (notice that dynamic 
exclamation point-it's great). That title may evoke a natural 
association for anyone who lives in our time, since for most people 
today the first association would be, I think, "to incite a riot". 
Don't let that fool you though-it may have all sorts of other 
meanings and I'm sure that those noble young humanitarian liberals 
would not ever consciously suggest that. 
The bulk of the leaflet is a series of comparisons between the 
American revolution, the fight of the Vietnamese National Libera­
tion Front, and the black power movement. It's straight out of 
Dudley Do-Right and the Northwest Mounties. First, let's see the 
scene ("England 1776 = America 1969 ==White America 1969") for 
this frightening confrontation of good and evil. Then, enter stage 
right the villain, Snidely Whiplash, twirling his moustache and 
uttering repressed chuckles of malicious glee as he goes about his 
dastardly deed: you guessed it -01' King George, Tricky Dick, and 
(repeat performance, I guess) Tricky Dick. To the moral exaltation 
of all, enter stage left the hero, glowing with Mr. Clean-ness and 
bound on frustrating the evil machinations of Whiplash: George 
Washington, Ho Chi Minh, and Eldridge Cleaver .. 
The leaflet continues this nonsense for a while, with such 
comparisons as "Tories=South Vietnam=Uncle Toms" and "shooting 
redcoats in the back=Vietcong atrocity=Panthers shooting pigs". The 
Students Against Racism must have spent a good part of their time 
and budget searching over hill and dale, scouring the academic 
communities of the world, seeking, seeking, seeking for someone 
who knew so appallingly little history. 
'~'hen was the last time you read a book (by anyone!) which spoke 
of "shooting redcoats in the back" as an important, concerted 
American military tactic in the Revolution? (Of course to non-racists 
that is merely proof of the complete fallaciousness of all history 
books written prior to their moral insight). It took until the 
twentieth century for man to perfect rationalizations for the use of 
organized, mass atrocity, especially by totalitarian fascism and 
communism. And can you imagine a meeting of these three 
comrades-in-arms: Washington, Uncle Ho, and Cleaver! Washington, 
the backbone of staid, relatively conservative Southern society, and 
Uncle Ho, the self-proclaimed social and political revolutionary? 
Washington and Cleaver, the Fathers of their "countries"? C'mon 
guys, have a heart. 

Not satisfied with this exposure of their deplorable inability to 
analyze historical and social situations, the Students Against Racism 
provide for our continuing edification one of the most blatant 
bloopers in the history of leaflet journalism. The problem is this: 
when the authors looked around for a quotation or two to finish 
their absurdity, they forget that they were writing for the Students 
Against Racism. The results were beautiful to behold: "There can be ~no integration until whites are the spiritual and political equals of blacks, and until blacks are economically equal to whites" and "whites in history have been so concerned with property that they have neglected to look at the sickness of their soul". 
Aside from the atrocious grammar, the statements have a basic 
problem which is hard to get around: they are clearly racist in 
character. 

Yech. But the final touch is the best: a sign in the upper hand 
.right corner says "your student budgetary allowance at work". Y'see, the joke is on all you who think that this is trash, beccmse -through your student senators you gave $1000 to this bunch. But for all white liberals who are so guilt-ridden that you believe this, it's great. 
1 
I 
.. j
71/B OBSEIWER.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1969 PAGE 5 
Pan, Hook, and all the children 
by David Allen Edmonds 
I wish I were a kid again, for' only children appreciate fantasy. And fantasy is what the ND/SMC Marionette Theater's production of Peter Pan was all about. 
four sellout crowds over this last weekend were treated to an hour of pure fun. Peter Pan was a bright, lively show that simply captivated t'1e many children in the audience. It's action and beautiful costumes were real enough to literally glue the attention of 300 children to the stage. This empathy bet ween the audi­ence and their heroes grew into a tension that was released during the scene-chan­ges, and then poured in to an actual participation in the show. Pan's appear-
This is the fifth in a series ofarticles on Notre Dame's graduate teaching assistants. Today 's article is on the wage battle: faculty opinion. 
by James Walton 
A wall of cant slill separates the graduate teaching assistant from one of freedom's elementary benefits--payment of services rendered. His services, through an extraordinary freedom on his employ­er's part. arc interpreted as services re­ceived, as teacher's training. And Notre Dame is lavish with this type of training, dealing out twice as much of it as stingy universities like Cornell, Stanford, and Northwestern. The TA in English at Notre Dame gets to teach two courses for the price of one -to correct freshman themes in sets of fifty instead of twenty­five --while enrolled in two or three graduate courses where, under the nearly paralyzing pressures imposed by the system, he pursues the other goal of I'h. D. training -competence in his sub­ject. 
Payment, of course, is the other matter in which theTA is subjected to academic freedoms. II is stipend, it appears, is treat­ed as an award (although the federal government, not buying this interpreta­tion, taxes it). One can't expect to be paill for services received, nor can he require of an award that it be increased periodically to accomodate the rising cost of living. 
It's no news that everything has been going up for a long time: wages, groceries, construction --and that tuition fee which the freshman pays in order to help "train" his teacher. But not the TA stipend, which has remained at $2100 for four years. 
It mir.ht be argued that the te:~chingassis­tant actually makes $3770, since the putative value of his tuition is $1670 (the price of four courses, which the TA hasn't time to take). He differs, however, from the other bons vil'ants in the $3700 bracket in that he never sees that 44% of his income. It has already been exchanged for him at the company store, where prices are set by his employer. 
Ph.D. training is indeed a curious commodity. It has a dollar value which is ance at the climax was greeted with applause that changed to joyous cheers as he out-duelled the villian, Capt. Hook. 

And that's what Children's Theater is all about-the kids' participation in the performance, and their happy, gleaming eyes as they actually met the puppets in the lobby after the play. 
I am a poor judge of this dramatic form, for I am an adult. I could see the puppets banging into each other, getting tangled up and being dropped. I knew that the blocking was bad and the singing was terrible. I could see the strings. 
But the kids couldn't and their joy was real. They believed what they saw, and I hope that if they have to grow up, they never forget. 
appparently never paid, only "awarded" (i.e., worked for). And the seller can claim to be spending whatever he claims the item is worth. Yet no one, I think, would argue that the case value assigned to graduate tuition is fraudulent, and this brings us to the root of the T A's mis­fortune. It is a commonplace that the fee paid by an undergraduate does not meet t'"1e cost of his education. The university hopes that alumni contributions, match­ing grants, and other revenues will make up the difference. The graduate student represents another means of breaking even: he can be used as cheap labor. The English TA carries two-thirds of an average, full-time teaching load for one­fifth to one-seventh of a full-time salary. Like his teachers, he might have a family, lack savings, be ill-suited to construction work and impressively gifted in his field. (That last gives him a right to be here: if the profession were still reserved for gentlemen's sons, all undergraduate class­es would have to be held in the stadium.) If so, he has little chance of developing his gift in graduate school, where he is over-extended in his duties and drained by financial anxiety. 
Ironically, the university's niggardly policy toward T A's, or simply its Jack of funds (either of which gives the lie to its pretensions to greatness), sets the inter­ests of the graduate student against those of the graduate faculty. A faculty mem­ber requires freedom from heavy schedules, oversized classes, and (in most instances) freshman teaching if he is to devote himself adequately to that ad­vanced study which qualifies him as a professor at a Ph.D.-granting institution. At Notre Dame he soon learns that the price of this freedom is the exploitation of his students. 
To achieve respectability in its dealings with graduate assistants in English, Notre Dame must pay $700 more for the teaching of one class than it now pays for two. The stipend for two classes should be $3600, and subject to periodic increas­es to meet rising costs. Then the appren­tice professor will be able to choose, according to his circumstances, between more money and less teaching --a choice rendered impossible by the present work­house rates. 


by Mark David Jones 
What is the world's heaviest substance? You might answer by saying lead or some other element is the densest material going when in all actuality, it is the Led Zeppelin. Picture if you will a haunting voice straight from Poe, an excellent and U:l!Jredidable lead guitar, a tltunolering pure earth bass, and the whole mixture clothed by tight percussion and you have a fair approximation of the Zeppelin. Even the album cover gets in the spirit of things as it opens to reveal some fantastic Cecil B. DeMille version of a solid magnesium-alloy dirgible. 
Listening to the record, I was most impressed by the Zeppelin's continued solidarity, the variety of music offered, and ability to keep moving musically without doubling back to retrieve old sounds. The group features two genuine super-stars in Robert Plant -vocals and Jimmy Page lead guitar. Both demon8trated their ability and resourcefulness in the first album and the second is a continuation. However, Led Zeppelin II gives the other two members of the band the chance to demonstrate their ability, which in both cases is considerable. 
The album is consistently surprising overcoming a difficulty which seems to be the prime downfall of groups specializing in this type of music. All the numbers are solid but three particular cuts stand out in my mind. The first is The Lemon Song, in which a medium-hard opener suddenly undergoes a time change and a Spirit-type lead guitar leaps out to gradually subside to allow a bass tatoo to backdrop Plant's voice. The lead slips slowly back in to complement the vocal and then assumes a very tight, restrained solo. Again come 

the time change and the number hurries 
toward its ending. 
The second cut is the best. It is entitled 
Thank You and opens with a 
reverberating acoustic guitar which leads 
the other instruments gently to the voice, 
while the instruments and vocal ascend to 
the climax of the electric lead. Here 
Plant's voice harshens, increasing the 
intensity of the mood and guitar and 
organ create a lace backing to his words. 
Suddenly, the organ is left alone and lays 
down a tinkly melody on top of massive 
monolithic chords. 
·The third cut deserving special mention is the Zeppelin's encore number. Shut your eyes and imagine that the Zeppelin has just finished their set. An applauding crowd brings the band filing back to the stage and hush falls over the crowd. You expect the most frenzied song of the night but Plant begins with a powerful harp solo on a subdued background. lie accompanies this with a strange muffled, gutteral voice and unexpectedly, WHAM! Page's snake-like guitar winds out for a resounding orgasm, then ebbs back to leave Plant alone with his harp and voice. 
The whole impression of this album is of tight, solid music interspaced with the freakiness of Plant's vocals and Page's tricks on lead. There is some question in my mind to how much of Page's experimenting with guitar is real music. I feel that Whole Lotta Love is sacrificed to Page's sound effects in it's middle which spoils the continuity of the song However, for the most part, his efforts are legitiml\te as he has pioneered several new electric sounds that are real and beautiful. 
I think that Zeppelin II has proven that their first was no fluke and establishes the group as one of the select few who occupy the pinnacle of rock-blues today. 

... 
7118 OBS£Rfl£lt WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1969
PAGE 6 
Letters to the Editor 
Histrionics 

Editor: 
Witness the histrionics of the whole thing! The remnant of the infamous seven and their local horde which closely approximates the rabble in the last days of the Empire; the gesticulating cheerleader nun newly freed from the service of a 13th century church in order to sing the paeans of Third Worldists; the student officials turned father confessors, (If in jail, "call me, call me, any time at all, just call me") The academic liberals so enamored of their positivistic world view that they are afraid to say who is a wolf and who is a sheep (a self evident fact to even those who are supposedly uneducated); the upper echelons afraid of their secretaries as well as the mob of pontificating adolescents and courteously apologizing fOi the presence of police when they should have been apologizing for the presence of their own students. The elements are complete. Mix well, heat, eat and regurgitate. 
It is indeed time for the administration to enforce its time limit before it itself runs out of time. It has to realize that the canons of civility can only be applied to civilized men. It is time to realize that the much heralded point of view that one has no right to kill is often spurious. (Of course one has the right to kill another man or as my friend Michael Patrick O'Connor has so well reminded the ideological left of the tradition of Orwell -War is evil but a lesser evil.) It is high time that administrators become administrators, that students become students, that our beraggled police are allowed to do their fascist thing (Thank the Good Lord in Heaven). 
For once, though, the SDS 
was right. They have always said 
that the workers really know more than the students. The worker next to me merely muttered the most sensible words of the day: "Jail Them". Peace, 
Jay Schwartz 
Flag pants 
Editor: 
At lunch today my eyes caught a glimpse of some "indi­vidual" wearing a pair of pants made out of the flag of the United States of America. I feel that this is a gross atrocity. 
Evidently this "individual" feels that he is personally better than the whole conglomeration of those who have given, are giving, or will give their lives for the ideals of the United States represented by its Star-Spangled banner. Evidently this "indivi­dual" has no respect for the ideals which others hold. Cer­tainly this "individual" too has some symbol that represents his ideals. I am sure that this "indi­vidual" would not want his symbol publicly defaced. 
I ask that this "individual" dispose of my standard in a dignified manner so that I may persop..ally continue to respect his symbol of ideals. 
Cass Rejent 
213 Morrissey 
Son House 
Editor: 
Sir, please print the following: 
Last evening, i was blessed with the opportunity to meet, and have dinner with one of the last living vestiges (sp) of a supreme legacy ...the SON HOUSE himself. SON HOUSE spoke for himself-i want to speak for that other LAST LIVING VESTIGE OF A SUPREME LEGACY...the pater­nal white father himself, (Dick Waterman, the erstwhile mana­
ger.) 
THE ASSOCIATION 
Friday November 21 8:30 PM A thletlc and Convocation Center 
LAST NIGHT-Ticket sales in the dining halls at supper 
Presented by STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION 
No One will be seated after the performance begins 
My personal animosity for Mr. Waterman is much a function of the animosity i have for most white folk whom i really don't know. That is, for me, they represent a system. A system of malicious oppression, of con­descending "GOD-SENT­HELP-THE-NIGGER" white paternalism. 
Not only did this "Black culture pimp" try to intellectual­ize black music-for a boring 40 minutes; he added insult to this cultural commercialism by rush­ing the elderly SON into his act. HOUSE, aware all the time, blew the whole tirade of bullshit asunder, when he casually, and sarcastically said:"Some folk sho' don' know what de blues is all 'bout... Wow, Right on! SON HOUSE! Waterman's innuendoes were akin to the way I felt when I found out that ROSENBAUM'S HABERDASHERY made my best AFRICAN dashiki. Now, do you know where I am coming from? 
Face it, people, black culture, for the most part, is at an implicit level where the average Dick Waterman (and his likes) cannot hope to reach. The jive he went through is like that part of the cultural iceberg that sank the Titanic, most white folks didn't even see the emerged part which really is down deep. 
So next time, at the risk of sounding extremely didactic, may i advise you folk (yeah, youall) to pay less attention to all the bullshit emitting from the slothful, capricious lips of just another "revolutionary" white capitalist entrepreneur! Right on, bill turner Instructor: Collegiate Seminar on Afro-American Culture 
Self-righteous egotist 
Editor: It would appear from Tim 
McCarry's article on the G.E. protest that the vast majority of students enrolled here are either blind or apathetic towards the moral issue involved in this strike. Yet 1 cannot see on what grounds this self-righteous ego­tist bases his moral damnation of myself or the rest of this univer­sity. It would seem, at least from McCarry's point of view, that all those not participating in the farcical CPA demonstration just aren't aware of what's going 011 ; therefore, due to their "ignor­ance", are subject to insult and derision. 1 would hope that in the future McCarry would con­sider the fact that other people have minds, too, before he makes any more asinine absolute 
statements deriding the charac­ter of an entire student body. 
Norman J. Barry 
202 Walsh 
Chimes 
Editor: 
A recent interview published in the Observer ("Chimes budget suddenly cut; Forces more belt tightening"-!? November 1969) overlooks several facts which should be brought to the atten­tion of your readers: 
I) Miss Karen Markle's initial decision to edit two issues of CHIMES Magazine with 64 pages in each issue has not been altered. 
2) Miss Karen Markle's initial decision to establish three prizes of $100.00 each has not been altered. 
Thank you. Sincerely, Harold Isbell, Faculty Advisor 
CHIMES Magazine 

$8.49 an hour? 
Editor: 
ln reference to the Ad in Thursday's Observer, stating that graduate students in economics are paid $8.49 an hour, I feel that an analysis of this figure is necessary before the Department is flooded with applicants. The Professor who purchased the Ad, whom formerly was thought to be a friend of the graduate stu­dents, has made two vital mis­takes in his argument. The first mistake is the questionable assumption on which the hourly wage is based. The second error 
is an error of reasoning. The wage rate appears to be based on the following: assis­tants work 12 hours a week, 37 weeks a year or 444 hours a year; the yearly income is $3770 and dividing these numbers he obtains $8.49 per hour. This seems to indicate that our Pro­fessor understands the basic 
principles of Arithmetic, but un­fortunately that is all this mani­pulation of figures implies. The problem with the analysis is the assumptions. He bases his in­come on two sources -$2100 in stipends and $16 70 in tuition. The questionable assumption is the following; would the gra­duate students in economics be willing to pay $1670 in tuition 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~atN~reDame?T~rearemmy fine State schools with far lower tuitions, therefore I feel that if
SENIOR WEEKEND 
all the graduate students were faced with the payment of this tuition they would probably go elsewhere. Therefore I do not
Kick-off Party 

tuition in the wage rate. 
Secondly I think it is ridicu­lous to equate the wage rate with a standard of living, espec­ially in regards to graduate stu­dents. It is not the wage rate that is relevant, but more impor­"tantly the net income. Most gra­duate students have a ·net in­come of about $1800 for the school year. This is the sum that must pay the rent and buys groceries. My landlord probably could care Jess what my wage rate happens to be; although if my landlord finds out that I am making $8.49 per hour he might increase my rent --he too may not understand the difference between an hourly wage and net income. 
James Clarke 
Graduate Student 
D. of Economics 
The Stripper 
Editor: 
There are many famous tradi­
tions that go along with the 
football season here at Notre 
Dame. Unfortunately, two of 
them are destined to "pass" at 
the end of this season. No longer 
will there be the rousing rallies 
in the old fieldhouse, and no 
longer will there be the stimulat­
ing teases by Tom Allen in the 
stadium. 

During the past four years thousands of fans have associat­ed "When the Irish Backs Go Marching By" with the enthu­siasm that is suddenly generated in the student sections. Slowly, amidst the admiring cheers of his fellow students, the man of the hour arises and artisticly begins his interpretive act to the beat of the music. In a run-away game even the players and coaches on the sidelines sneak a glance in the direction of this "greatest show on earth". 
This easy going student star 
has no business manager and is 
not even here on an athletic 
scholarship (though many have 
commented that he is worth the 

price of admission alone). His act is cut short week after week by the brevity of the music, but this unassuming performer has never been heard to utter a complaint. The weather, too, has tried to dissuade this new hero of the performing arts. Despite all this harassment, Tom Allen has returned week after week to the satisfaction of his adoring fans. 
This Saturday is Tom's last 
scheduled performance. To show 
your appreciation for all he has 
done to further spirit at the 
games, we are asking that all 
students applaud widly when the 
Tom Allen Show goes on for the 
last time. We are asking the band 
to k"P p~ying until Tom hu 
complete his act to the better 
"end". And we are asking you, 
Tom, to go all the way in this 
the final show of your illustrious 
career. 
ALL THE WAY WITH T.A. 

t-thi.~n~k~it~is_I~e~g~it~in:.::1=at~e~to~i~n=cl~u~d~e~~=S~tu~d_e_n~t~s_fo~r_T~o=m~A~1J~e=n~~-. 
First drink -49C 

Freshman Class 
Second drink -1C 

Elections 
5 gallons of free spirits 

Thursday, November 20 
as door prizes 

Vote m your Halls
TONIGHT at Alumni Club 
~------~~~~--------------------------~-­


WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBEH 19, 1969 
THE OBSEIWER 
PAGE 7 

Social Commission sets Mardi Gras plans
by Don Ruane 
Centered around a general theme of San Francisco, this year's Mardi Gras is scheduled to run from February fifth to the tenth, according to Dave Dewan of the Student Union Social Commission. A preliminary "kickoff party" is tentatively scheduled for the weekend of January ninth. 
Dewan emphasized that the Mardi Gras is based on "Chari­ty". "Charity has made the Mar­di Gras successful and has kept it going for the last fifteen years. Without the money for charity, the whole idea of the Mardi Gras falls through," said Dewan. 
The Mardi Gras raffle can make over thirty thousand dol­lars if the students support it and do their part commented 
Chance seen for future bowls by Ara and Moose 
INDIANAPOLIS, IND. (UPI) 
Athletic Director Ed Moose Krause indicated yesterday Notre Dame's new bowl participation policy will continue as long as the Fighting Irish rank among the country's top college football teams. 

The statement by Krause at the weekly meeting of The Indianapolis News' Downtown Quarterback Club appeared to conflict with earlier reports from the Rev. Edumund P. Joyce, Notre Dame's executive vice president and chairman of the faculty athletic board. 
Notre Dame announced Monday it would meet either Texas or Arkansas in the Cotton Bowl New Year's Day, ending a 45 year Irish ban on post season play. School officials said the major reason for the unexpected policy change was a need for money to finance minority student scholarship programs. Notre Dame stands to gain up to $300,000 from Colton Bowl participation. 
Krause, suhstituling for Notre Dame Coach Ara l'arseghian at the luncheon, said howl play was something he had been campaigning for over the years. 
"I am delighted with the opportunity to participate in the Cotton Bowl this year and perhaps other howls in future years," Krause said. "This is such a wonderful thing ... and I think it will continue so long as Notre Dame has a chance to play a top rat ell team," he said. 
Earlier, Father Joyce said the new bowl policy was not permanent and it was entirely possible Notre Dame might readopt its no bowl decree next year, particularly if Cotton Bowl participation proved too much of a strain on the football players and the campus in general. 
Parshegian, in his fifth year at Notre Dame said he has waited for 20 years of college coaching to participate in a major bowl game. He also said that the door has now been open to bowl play for future Notre Dame teams. 
"A precedent has been set and if we have good ranking and receive bids we can go to a bowl game every year," he said. "And what a tremendous incentive this will he to the players." 
"I don'l intend to overwork the boys," Parsheghian added. "There will bt• no problem in keeping them mentally alert and Dewan. Students will get their raffle books during the first week of December. Information on the raffle prizes will be re­leased after Thanksgiving. The Social Commission would like each student to sell two books which would bring a minimum of thirty thousand dollars in revenue. 
Dewan said that the theme of the Mardi Gras will center around San Francisco. The Social Com­mission is trying to hire a band for the Mardi Gras dance on February sixth that has "charac­teristics of the San Francisco sound". Several groups were in­vestigated but were found to be "substantially out of our price range for the dance" commented Dewan. The theme of the dance, which will be held in the A.CC 

TWAputa price onyour head tha!evenyourparents m1ghtagree topay. 
We're out to get you home for the holidays. Fast. Which is something that your parents will probably enjoy too. 
Something else they'll enjoy is our fares for students. (Students, that is, who are between the ages of 12 and 21.) On a standby basis, you 'II get 40% off regular coach fares. 
Which doesn't mean you'll be flying second class or anything like that. 
Concourse, will be "Fillmore West." 
Attempts were made to have the Jefferson Airplane or Cre­dence Clearwater Revival per­form in concert on the eighth, but neither group is booking for the winter. Dewan said that the surveys recently circulated in the dining halls have been tabulated. Among the top requests and possibilities for the concert are Crosby, Stills and Nash, and Sly and the Family Stones. Members of the Social Commission agreed that the concert should be held in the Convocation Center be­cause of the success they have had there thus far. Dewan men­tioned that no final committ­ments have been made and that the performance will be at l: 30 p.m. 
The carnival will have several 
new features this year. One of the innovations will be a single large bank with two or three windows set aside for what Dewan calls "larger transac­tion". A larger bank will also help the crowd flow and will open each night till midnight. On the seventh it will be open all day and till I a.m. the next morning. 
Dewan said that anyone inter­ested in running a booth at the carnival must submit a design for their booth before December first. Booths that are most ori-
Law 


Pennsylvania-Thursday, November 20, 1969 
Cincinnati-Monday, November 24, 1969 
, lnter_views will be in room 154 of the Center [or Continuing EducatiOn. S1gn up for an appointment outside Room 1OJ 0 'Shaughnessy. 
You still get all the great food and TWA features like movies and stereo music~ But it won't cost you like it does everyone else. 
And TWA flies to nearly all the major cities in the U.S., plus we have a special youth fare to Hawaii. 
With all that going for you, there's only one excuse for not going home for the holidays. 
gina! and that fit the theme will be selected by the carnival staff. Dewan offered the large number of interested groups and the special limitations of Stepan Center as the reasons for the design contest. "Depending on the final floor plan there will be from 22 to 24 booths," com­mented Dewan. Booth design 

will be divided into four cate­gories. Dewan listed the divisions as Chinatown, llaight-Ashbury, Waterfront and general San Francisco themes such as "Can­dlestick Park". 
l'lllllt ionally up." 
L-----------==============================================-----...J 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1969 
7HB OBSERVDl.
PAGE 8 

Pears confiscates press, student gov't ID's 
(continued from page I) 
monstrators; also that different 
people were blocking the door. 
Fr. Riehle then informed the 
students that their fifteen min­
utes were up and that if they did 
not move they would be auto­
matically suspended. The stu­
dents refused, and Fr. Riehle 
then began to collect their lden­
tifiqation cards. 
Pears takes ID's 
Arthur Pears began to confis­cate ID cards from several peo­ple around the area, who had nothing to do with the blocking 
of the door. Among those who had their cards confiscated were SBP Phil McKenna, SBVP Fred Dedrick, and Observer Publisher Don Holliday. Pears allegedly said "That doesn't matter." When Holliday repeated his statement Pears reportedly asked which paper. Holliday replied "the Observer." Pears then sup­posedly said, "That doesn't mat­ter." Holliday then handed over his ID card. 
Phil McKenna then announ­
ced that the police were outside, 
behind the administration build­
ing. 
Police arrive The police arrived in two pat­rol cars along with a paddy wagon and emerged, arming themselves with riot helmets and wooden night sticks. They were met by St. Joseph County Sher­iff Elmer Sokol and an assistant. Sokol began to chew out the officers. Apparently Sokol had given instructions for the policemen to wait by the Stadium until he decided to call them in. While the policemen huddled with the Sheriff, Tim MacCarry walked up to the group and attempted to talk to the police. An argu­ment ensued and MacCarry was arrested. Eyewitnesses and Mac­Carry differed over the circum­stances of the arrest. MacCarry was taken to South Bend, but the charges were dropped and he was released later in the evening. Sr. Malone opens The demonstration began about I p.m. with a talk by Sister Joanne Malone, a member of the D.C. 9. She denounced' Dow for using napalm. "The point is that Dow has refused to discuss this. They refuse to accept responsibility for the deaths they have caused." Sister Joanne said that Dow completely controls 22 
subsidiaries in foreign lands, including Argentina, Mexico, South Africa, Panama, Greece, Peru, Chile, and that the people in those countries have no say over where the money goes. She also claimed that Dow secretly operated the Rocky Mountain Arsenal, though the Arsenal is supposed controlled by the Army. According to her, Dow is the chief maker of nuclear warheads. 
Sister Joanne explained her presence at N.D. by saying that she had been here last May and was interested in what happens here. She said that "ND is one of the Catholic campuses that is doing more than others to ally itself with corporations such as Dow and Grace Lines, which exploit South America." 
She questions finances 
She claimed that ND receives "millions of dollars from these corporations." She also questioned who really financed the university and what was the university's place-"to educate people or to maintain the exploitation and military repressions of underdeveloped countries." 
"I don't think anyone is an outsider when the issue is human life. I want to do something, even if it's to help kids here. This is not violent. The violence is in the offices here, like in Father Hesburgh's and the Placement Office where the decisions made are about who lives and who dies," she said. 
"Complicity on killing" Steve Moriarity, an alumnus of Notre Dame, then spoke about "our complicity in killing," saying that it "Can stop today." He asked that the university's complicity with 
murder stop now, and that the interviews "be the last today." He said that his brother w·as 
flying bombing missions in Vietnam. "I love him, but he's a murderer. The time has come to say, we will stop it." 
One of the participants then spoke on how the demonstrators had to be willin3 to look beyond the particular case of the interviews. 
"What we've got to do is much larger. We've got to turn the University around. This will get a couple of us in jail or in difficulty. The University can't play on the liberalism of tho~e in it. We have to be larger, we have to talk with those who don't understand what is going on today. We have to develop a campus consciousness. Liberal arguments can't tell against us," he said. 
Myth of free speech Tim MacCarry then spoke on the danger of opportunism in the demonstration and the danger of creating the illusion that any solution would mean something. He spoke against the equation of free speech to a business deal. "This has nothing to do with free speech, it is not relevant here. The myth is that the University is the center of free speech. The idea of a free university is maintained at the expense of the freedom of the world." MacCarry said that if the Third World were asked about what to do, it would say to destroy the university. He called the university "A functional digestive tract fed by the foundations and tax grants to shit out agents to keep the VICIOUS beast stalking the world." MacCarry spoke in favor of a revolution on the deepest levels of society. 
Task is monumental 
Tom Heinen spoke about the danger of an academic discussion of ethics. 
"The task is so monumental that we must proceed on many fronts. We (Heinen is a draft resister) have nothing to lose, we are already criminals...The longer you can avoid getting fed up ... that's fine. But it is necessary for some people to start dealing with reality. They're turning us into psychological eunuchs." 
"Racism is perhaps the most obvious manifestation of a sickness that permeates this country. Perhaps that sickness can best be explained as forgetting what it is to be free, forgetting what it is to be a man, forgetting that the value of life transcends any economic or polical advantage," said John Wilson of Students Against Racism. 
White privi1ege 
"The University maintains the white privilege, the symbols of a sick system. This is not denier! 
ot free chOice, since it denies no human rights to institutions that deny many people the right to 
live. To disrupt is symbolic, it 
won't stop exploitation and 
murder. As Joseph Heller in his 
pIa y showed, the inhuman 
institutions are allowed to go on 
because they are ignored." 
Mr. James King then spoke. 
He said that the interviewer did 
not feel that he could speak to 
the assembled crowd since he 
was only a guest of the 
University. Father Thornton of 
the Placement Office, he 
claimed, would have to give him 
permission to speak. King called 
it typical of the Catholic 
American bureaucracy. 
Thornton talks 
Father Thornton then talked 
to the interviewer who agreed to 
talk to representatives of the 
protestors. Sister Joanne 
suggested that the interviewer 
was afraid to talk to the crowd 
as a whole, which received 
enthusiastic approval. 
At this point, John Girardot attempted to get into the office for an interview but had his way blocked by several of the demonstrators. He gave up and walked away. 
Bernie Ryan then revealed that the interviews were being held in the back of the Placement Office and that there were two interviewers. One had been followed, while the other had slipped into the Placement Office. The demonstators then blocked the main door. 
Mignanelli blocked Tom Mignanelli, a Senior, was temporarily blocked by the demonstrators from entering the placement office. He was trying to get in to learn the time of the interview he had with Ernst and Ernst, an accounting firm. Mignanelli explained that as he tried to go through the demonstrators blocked the door, they asked him to state why he was trying to enter the placement office. He refused and tried to push his way through. A scuffle broke out, which was promptly broken up by SBVP Fred Dedrick. Mignanelli, after consulting with Dedrick, was allowed to pass. The demonstrators then decided to rap about the tactics. The leaders emphasized their desire to avoid antagonism of other students. Bernie Ryan said that moving the block to inside the office couldn't eliminate the antagonism, and thus he advised keeping blockade at the main 
door. It was pointed out that 
Father Thornton preferred that the demonstrators block the main door. One unidentified leader advised that five or six of the bigger demonstrators move into the office and block only the door into the Dow interviewer. 
Rule: blatant violation The discussion about the possibility of invoking the "fifteen minute rule" began. It was felt that the discussion should be centered about those people who intended to violate the rule. It was said to be in blatant violation of the student 1 manual, and offered little or no recourse to any legislative body. It was said that the goal of the demonstration was to gain publicity. One unidentified speaker said that the "great silent majority" had no political feelings, and followed any who happened to be in power. The speaker "claimed that any adverse publicity from the demonstration might drive the great silent majority into the opposite camp. He said that he hoped that the demonstration would wake up the people who hadn't thought about Vietnam. 
CIA man leaves At this point the CIA representative left the office and proceeded down the hall into another office just inside the main door, followed by several of the leaders of the demonstration. 
After more discussion and the blocking of several students from entering the offices, Fr. Riehle appeared and declared that the "15 minute" rule was in effect. Shortly afterwards the Dow representative left and the demonstration seemed to cool off. John Barb claimed that he felt that the administration and Dow were seeking a confrontation, since they had refused to hold the interviews off campus. Barb was heckled loudly and was followed by Tom Connely, a Vietnam veteran. 
Connely replies 
Tom Connely spoke against the demonstration, and the blocking of the door. He said that they were "no better than those people who are taking the life of a man. You are taking a man's freedom to live when you kill him, and you're taking people's freedom now." 

Injunction brought against protest, does not effect plans 
(continued from page 1) 
individually and as representatives of all others acting in consort or association with them, Defendants... and all other persons ...are hereby restrained and enjoined until further order of this Court from congregating and assembling in the Placement Office in the Administration Building (Main Building) on the campus of the University of Notre Dame, or in any area near or adjacent thereto or in any corridor, stairway, doorway or entrance thereto in such a manner as to disrupt or interfere with the normal functions conducted by the Placement Office and they are further restrained and enjoined from blocking, hindering, impeding or interfering with ingress, or egress from said Placement Office or areas adjacent thereto and from 
interfering with the faculty, administrators, students, employees, or other guests of the plaintiff rightfully in said 
Placement  Office  or  areas  
adjacent thereto...  
Sister  Joanne  Malone,  

improperly refered to as Sister Jean Malone in the injunction, spoke out against Dow at last night's meeting. (Sister Malone artived on campus late Monday night to participate in the demonstration. She is a member of the "DC-9" which entered the Dow Chemical Office in Washington on March 22, 1969, poured human blood on office walls and equipment, threw files out the window, and then awaited arrest. Sister and eight cohorts are awaiting a February 3 trial to face a second degree burglary charge and two destruction of property charges). She said that she is not just 
asking that Dow stop making napalm; she also objects to other pia ns for weaponry and exploitation of Third World Countries. 
Sister claimed that Dow is presently making materials for future U.S. wars in Peru, Chile, Argentina, and the Union of South Africa and that the company controls I 00% of its subsidaries in twenty-two countries. 
"It is the policy of Dow Chemical to exploit and to kill. The company has no moral responsibility," she said. 
Earlier in the meeting, SBP Phil McKenna explained the status of the students who surrendered their IDs yesterday in the Administration Building. 
"Anyone's card taken by Father Riehle is subject to either suspension or expulsion, but the owners of the cars taken by Arthur Pears are in no trouble unless there is some evidence that these individuals were actually in front of the door," McKenna said. 
McKenna explained that Riehle, after the fifteen minute "cease and desist" period had expired, only collected the IDs of students who were barring entrance to the room in which Dow interviews were being held. (The CIA recruiter left the Administration Building before the fifteen minute warning was given}. 

"But Pears started collecting everyone's card," McKenna said. "I just started talking with Pears 
and he took my card," he continued. 
"Riehle said the University will take legal action against anyone who refused to turn in his card," he added. These persons will be regarded as outsiders and therefore as trespassers. 
Persons suspended or expelled as a result of today's confiscation of IDs will have five days to appeal the decision made on them, said McKenna. He also stated that those who fall into this category should contact him in order that legal defense can be obtained for them. 



