
Lyons wins in McCandless 
Elections held for new St. Mary's Assembly 


Lawless, Rev. Thomas E. Blantz, pIa ce where all the great
by Phil Bosco 
CSC, Rev. James L Shilts, CSC, questions are asked,' it is bound 
The Student Life Council Dean Joseph C. Hogan, Philip J. to be an independent and concluded its discussion of the Faccenda, and Rev. Edgar J. d isp uta t ious pIa ce, oft en sub-committee report on student Whelan, CSC. The new members alarming to those who support demonstrations last night. The (Faccenda, Hogan and Whelan) it, since the wealth that report, after a somewhat heated will take office on June I. subsidizes universities is often discussion that last.tld about two The Student Demonstration held by persons and enterprises hours, was accepted by a rolecall Report submitted by the representing conservative inter­
vote of 13 to 3. subcommittee by its chairman, ests. Demonstrations can and do 
Also last night, Father Rev. James T. Burtchaell, CSC, place the administration be­M cCarragher announced that has been five months in tween two distrustful groups. members who will represent the preparation. Though it is probably tempted 
ad ministration on next year's at times toall down a plague on SLC arc: Fat her Riehle, Dean of Describing the situation that both their hou~es, the adminis­Students, and McCarragher, Vice exists at Notre Dame, the report tration must try to explain and President for Student Affairs, says: advocate the interests of both both ex officio; Dean William B. "If Notre Dame is really 'a groups to each other." 
Statement requests ROTC removal 
A statement req uesling the way, promote participation in compatible with the purposes removal of the Reserve Offi_cers this program." and ideals of a university." Fur­Training Corps from the campus ther on it said the strength and 
The statement was interpreted

was released yesterday by Stu­essence of an educational insti­
as a public statement of the
d cnt Body President Phil tution was to foster free inquiry
co-signers personal beliefs and
McKenna. into human knowledge and ex­did not reflect the general con­
Also signing the letter were perience. "It is obvious to us sensus of their organizations.
Student Body Vice President that the military establishment is 
In the opening paragraph the

Fred Dedrick, Scholastic Editor antithetical to this goal," the release called the military "in-statement said.
Richard Moran and Observer Editor Tim O'Meilia. Dedrick 
Student ServicesOrganization formed
appeared at a press conferem:e in Madison, Wise. at the University 
at SMC to aid activities and projects
of Wisconsin Monday and re­
by Anne Scheidler next year's Spiritual Commis­
leased the sta te men I. 
sioner. She has plans for a "com­
The student leaders joined The Student Services Organ­munity commission" which will
others from throughout the mid­ization has recently been formed 
involve the college as a whole"w,l!st in asking that ROTC be at St. Mary's to more effectively ntther than a select group of
abolished from their university implement the projects of the girls.
campuses. The entire Madison college's various committees", 
Future Social Commissionerventure was sponsored by the according to next year's director Wisconsin Student Association Chele Malloy would like to work

Patty Gill. The SSO will parallel
(WSA). on activities within St. Mary's
Student Union at Notre Dame, The University of Wisconsin 
college commuity itself as well
concerning itself with activities student new spa per The Daily as with Notre Dame.
and projects, enabling elected Cardinal and the WSA mailed a 
Brenda Oates will serve as

officers to pay more attention to joint statement earlier in the next year's Student Service
policy-making and "official" month asking that sympathetic Organization Comptroller. The
business. 
student leaders sign. The Notre organization as a whole plans to
As director of Student Ser­

Dame group sent their own, publish an information booklet
vices, Miss Gill will organize and 
however. concerning where-to-go and
supervise several commissions, 
The one-page release conta­what-to-sec for the 1969-70
although each will remain inde­ined four points and a rationale school year. 
pendent of the others. essen! ially. It requested that the It will also establish a Volun­
Sara Ballard has been appoin­

University "remove academic teer Services Organization under
ted Academic Activities Com­credit from all courses in the one of the commissions to en­
missioner, and plans to expand courage projects in the SouthROTC program, that all ROTC the Free University program 
instructors be denied academic through more student-faculty Bend community. rank of professor, that the Uni­l."'Operation. She would also like Positions still to be appointed versity not provide gratis class­to work on more lectures and include NSA Co-ordinator and 
rooms and office space and that gabfests for the college. Public Relations Commissioner for Student Government.
the University shall not, in any Mary Beth Gasda will act as 
Vby Laura Haferd 
Results of the elections of hall presidents and Student Assembly representatives from the various halls were announced last evening by Student Body Vice-President Beth Driscoll. 
The only contested Hall Presi­dent post was in McCandless where Ruth Lyons won by a margin of 55 to 42 over Peggy Murphy. The other hall _presi­dents will be: LeMans, Mary Minella; Holy Cross, Mary Bernath; and Regina, Diane Dergler. 
Hall Representatives are: LeMans, Sue Chase, Patty McCusker, Debbie Motto, and Ann Steinman; Holy Cross, Jean Gorman, Velma Lemanski, and Ronie Rogers; Regina, Jane Sheehy and Louise McGrath; and McCandless, Carol Cusick, Anne O'Brien, and Sandy Griffin . 
.The new student political body, the Student Assembly, was created when the former student government abolished the executive board, the legis­lature, and the hall senates. Representation is now on a hall basis and most of the candidates for these posts emphasized in their platforms the legislation which they plan to propose on the request of members of their own halls. 
The main function of the Hall President is to plan and to ccoordinate hall activities. Ruth Lyons suggests that she must organize a Hall Council for the purpose of discussion of hall problems and communication of ideas and recommendations. She has as her liasons to community government the members of Stu­dent Assembly in her hall, plus her own seat on the Committee on Residence Halls. This way, most legislation concerning the hall can be presented for passage by those who are directly effect­ed. With the shifting emphasis on the residence hall rather than the classes, it is evident that the dormitory will be playing a greater role not only within the St. Mary's Community but also 
in the interaction between St. Mary's and Notre Dame. 
Miss Driscoll said that the vote in all halls was fairly good. The largest number of votes cast for any candidate was ninety­one. Voting in this election was limited to those students who attended an open forum yester­day afternoon at I p.m. 
Some of the issues mentioned by the newly elected representa­tives as imminent include Sun­day visitation hours or parietal hours, investiigation into the stu­dent aid program, the social­economic aspects of living on campus, the use of alcoholic beverages in the rooms of stu­dents over 21, parking facilities, the opening of co-ex study rooms to be used after 10 p.m., and continued efforts to im­prove curriculum study and the pass-fail grading system. 
ELECTION RESULTS 
McCANDLESS HALL HOLY CROSS HALL president Rut hie Lyons 55* president Mary Burnath 41-7-4* Peg Murphy 42 assembly Velma Lemanski 41 * 
assembly Sandy Griffin 91 * Ronie Rogers 41* Carol Cusik 64* Jean Gorman 30* Anne O'Brien 63* Susan Dorn 29 Sarah Belanger 39 Marilyn M 23 Diane Dingleberry 28 abstentions 1 
abstentions 8 LeMANS HALL president Mary Minella 37-2* 
REGINA HALL 
asserrt>ly Sue Chase 41" 

president Diane Derflu 14-1-2* Patty McCusker 39* assembly Jane Sheehy a• Debbie Motto 39* 
Louise McGrath 8* Anne Steniman 36 
llllary Ellen Satallo 6 abstentions 5 
abstentions 8 • indicates winner 

·························~·················· 
:On the inside... : 
: . 
: Tommie strikes again --see page 5 : 
: Will St. Mary's join the Irish on the football field : : next year? --see page 5 : 
: Grand Prix rundown --see page 3 : : Ruggers cut down for dirty play --see page 8 : 
-·-------------­
THE OBSERUER. TUESDAY, MAY 6,1969
PAGE 2 

Grad student named recipient of fellowship 
Mrs. Maben D. Herring, a ceive a Kent Fellowship by the studies who are preparing for teaching assistant and graduate Danforth Foundation. teaching or ad ministration in student in the English depart­The purpose of the grant is colleges and universities." The ment at the University of Notre "to encourage and support selec­award provides up to $6,000 for Dame, has been named to re-ted persons pursuing graduate expenses incurred during the 
Off Campus Voting 
for 

S.L.C ELECTIONS 
Thursday May 8, 1969 In Off Campus Office 
9AM to 7PM 
Seniors allowed to vote 
schoool year 1969-70 and is normally renewable for a three-year period. It will be used by Mrs. Herring to com­plete the requirements for a Ph.D. in Eighteenth Century British Literature. 
Of I, 100 nationwide appli­cants this year, only 34 were finally selected. The 33 other recipients of the award and Mrs. Herring and her husband will attend a summer conference for study and discussion at Seven Springs Mountain Resort, Cham­pion, Pennsylvania, on August 24 through 29. 
Mrs. Herring received her B.A. degree from Johnson C. Smith University Charlotte, N.C., and completed studies for the M.A. at the University of Wisconsin. She holds a Master of Arts in Teaching from the University of Notre Dame and has taught at Johnson C. Smith University, Indiana University, South 

Mrs. Maben D. Herring 

Bend-Mishawaka campus, and a John Adams High School. 
Mrs. Herring is a partner in the firm of Herring/Guerden and Associates, a research and con­sulting firm organized last year as an interface between minority groups and business and educa­
r------------------------------------------'-----------------, tiona! institutions. The firm is 
For guys who work night shifts a pill forthe dayshift. 
Nothing can kill a day like a hard night. Yet every campus has its nocturnal heroes dedicated to the art of playing it cool. 
If you're one of them, we'd like to offer you a little food for thought. What we have in mind is NoDoz®. The pill that helps you shift through the day shift. 
NoDoz has the strongest stimulant you can buy without a prescription. And it's not habit forming. 
:J >t < With a couple of NoDoz, ''""''''''· workers of the night can fight another day. 
representative of the numerous efforts on the part of minori­ties to establish their own busi­nesses and provide better human relations and an economic boost to the community. 
Her husband, James B. Her­ring, is Director of Marketing Research at the St. Joseph Bank and Trust Company. The Her­rings have two children. 
Rectors named 
for new dorms 

Father Maurice Amen, C.S.C., has been appointed rector of Towers A & B for the shcool year 1969-70. Also, Father Ed­gar Whelan, C.S.C., has been appointed rector of Towers C & D for 1969-70. 
According to Rev. Charles McCarragher, Vice President of Student Affairs, the halls have not been officially named by since many students have req ues­ted the names of the rectors and to facilitate Fathers Amen and Whelan in hiring student pre­fects, student clerks, student mailmen, this announcement is being made earlier than the ap­
for the rectors of the rest of the residence halls. 
Plan hall gov't 
Anyone moving into one of the new dorms next fall who would like to participate in hall 
government should attend a meeting Thursday at 6:30pm in, the Student Government offices. Student Government offices are located on the third floor of LaFortune C "Landry sees two problems immediately facing the governments of the new halls: the creation of freshman orien­tation program and the writing 

of  a  hall  constitution  to  be  
presented  to  the  residents  as  
soon as possible next fall.  

"Complete chaos will exist in the hall unless effective govern­ment exists from the start next year." 
U.M.O.C. IS HERE 
Voting at N.D., S.M.C. Dining Halls, Today Through Thursday 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $10 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 

~ 
71/E OBSERVER.

TUESDAY, MAY 6, 1969 PAGE 3 
Grand Prix events to begin this weekend 
The Student Union Soda! Commission has scheduled its upcoming Grand Prix Weekend: 
On May 9, there will be a car and motorcycle display on the main quadrangle. The display 
will feature several types of bited. The time is from II a.m. and go until 10:45. The second cycles from Honda of Michiana. until 3 p.m. set will start at II :05 and con­A Grand Prix Pontiac and hope­Go Kart time tria Is are sched­tinue until 12:05. There will be fully a GTO, along with several uled for May I 0 in the Convoca­warm up periods before the other makes in the Ford, Chevy, tion Center parking lot. The first trials, with one half hour allot­and Fiat lines will also be exhi-set of trials will begin at 9:00 ted before the first and IS min­utes allowed before the second 
set of time trials. 
The trials are held to 

determine the starting positions 
in the final race. After the. trials there will be a twenty lap sprint race at I P.M. in which all the cars will participate. 
The actual race will be on May 17 in the Convocation Center Parking Lot. Prizes wil~ be awarded about one hour after the race after the first six cars have been impounded and inspected and any challenges have been considered. 

JAMES BROWN SHOW 
The Nations No. 1 Entertainer 
IN PERSON 
JAMES BROWN 
With Show for Entire Family 

Date: May lOth, '69 Place: Morris Civic 
T. k t p . Auditorium
IC e nces: 1st Show: balcony $3.50 main floor $4.00 2nd Show balcony $4.00 main floor $5 .00 On Sale at: Auditorium Box Office Show Time: 7 & 10 P.M. 


THE OBSERJJER.
PAGE 4 

THE OBSERVER· 
An Independent Student Newspaper TIMOTHY J. O'MEILIA, Editor-in-Chief DONALD C. HOLLIDAY, Executive Editor DAVID M. BREEN, Business Manager FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
A little salt 
Last Friday's student-trustee meeting in the Engineering 
Auditorium resulted in the proposal of a "forum," to be held twice or 
three times a year. Supposedly this forum will enable the students and 
trustees to develop a better understanding of each other. This is another 
attempt at dialogue, or communication. or whatever convenient name is 
given the very real problem of a lack of understanding of each segment 
of the University for the others. 
The idea of a forum in which students air some of their problems and 
grievances with the Board is an admirable one. Almost anything which 
will give students and trustees more of an opportunity to merely see 
each other is an improvement. 
However it is unrealistic to think that a twice a year meeting will 
enable students and trustees to begin to understand each other as fully 
as is needed. It seems that the invention of the forum concept, although 
it is useful and worth pursuing, will finally not result in even 
moderately quick response to student questions and needs. 
Dr. Meredith Wilson, himself a former university president, said 
Friday, "If you sat students with the board, two members with 
thirty-eight, the two members would be powerless and you would soon 
be calling them 'Uncle Toms'." No doubt Dr. Wilson is right, two 
students would be powerless, although they would understand the 
machinations of the board and help present student opinion. But that is 
no answer. 

Another possibility always mentioned is requiring the trustees to be 
on campus a certain number of days during the year, so that they can 
get the feel of student opinion and student life. This is of course impossible. Members of the board of trustees almost by definition belong to various and sundry corporations and simply haven't the time. There is one immediately workable and infinitely valuable solution. 
The St. Mary's College Board of Trustees includes on some of its subcommittees student members. They have an actual hand in the deicsions of the subcommittees, where most of the work for any board 
of trustees is done. Although University President Rev. Theodore Hesburgh has promised meetings this summer between student leaders and education and student affairs subcommittee, it would be much better to have permanent student positions in the various subcommittees. Better a hand in making the pie than saying it needs more salt after 
it's cooked. 

Welcome news 
The recent announcement of the expansion of the co-ex program at 
St. Mary's and Notre Dame into a virtual coeducational situation is the 
most welcome news in a long while. 
By September, 1972 the two Schools will be more equal in size, and 
will probably have only one registrar's office, integrated class schedules 
and calendars, becoming almost one school, except in name. However 
they will most likely still be receiving their degrees from the school 
appropriate to them, Notre Dame for boys and St. Mary's for girls. 
It seems clear that this is probably only the first step into a final integration of the sexes on the Notre Dame-St. Mary's campuses. PePerhaps the Coordinating Committee between the two schools already has in its collective mind some vague idea of what cqmes next. Certainly the decision has yet to be made. Perhaps St. Mary's will expand even more, perhaps Notre Dame will admit women students to live on its campus, or perhaps another girl's school will move here. 
It is understandable why a move as important as this one is being done almost reluctantly, and in steps. It may be expected that some alumni oppose the move, which may or may not affect contributions to 
the University. At any rate somewhere off in the future can be seen the day when man and woman can live side by side on these two campuses, or at least hall by hall, and develop into normal, well-a,djusted human beings. Too bad it's too late for us. 

Price of ROTC 
Editor: Yes! Yes! Yes! ROTC is worth the price! Being over 40, the mother of a son in Army ROTC, and one of a vanishing breed ( a patriotic American) labels me as one of the "Establishment" but permit me, sir, to tell it like it is. I shall endeavor to be concise, reason­able and polite. 
I. Rotc is not mandatory for Notre Dame men, so it follows that the 1,218 students partici­pating have exercised their free­dom of choice. They do not interfere with the decision of the remainder of the student body to be non-participants. 
2. The tragic war in VietNam, as indeed all wars since the dawn of time, has been anathema to any rational, intelligent being, particularly to the women who bear the sons sent into battle. However, we must not overlook the Christian principles of jus­tice, honor and duty to protect our beloved country. Imperfect as it may be, it's the best place on earth to live, raise a family and enjoy the freedom to speak and edit newspapers such as the 
Observer. 
3. 
Hopefully, we may be able to lay down our arms someday when the enemies of our way of life demonstrate that they can live as honorable men. However, the burden of proof rests on them. 

4. 
The "activists", and "pro­testors" on the campus who constantly preach a hatred of war and a love of "mankind" seem to be less loving toward the educator, the military, the police or anyone who disagrees with their doctrines. 

5. 
Since the ROTC program was initiated at Notre Dame during World War II, it has in no way detracted from the aca­demic stature of the University. Rather I would say it has pro­lid ed intelligent, imaginative leadership and graduated and 


commissioned  young  men  of  
inestimable  value  to  their  
country.  

Mrs. Robert R. Keating Cleveland Hts., Ohio · 
ROTC conclusions 
Editor: In regards to your article 
TUESDAY, MAY 6,1969 
"Campus ROTC: Is it worth the Price?", I feel your cond)-lsion was not in the true spirit of intellectual freedom. You want to keep Notre Dame "as an institution independent, autonomous, and free". And yet you would stut off one pursuit-ROTC-from those on this campus who presently show interest in the military programs, thus you limit their freedom of choice. 
You offer the al..,rnative of setting up an off-campus ROTC program, which you have to admit would put a strain on those on-campus ROTC students. Why do you disclude the possibility of ROTC's becoming an extracurricular activity? 
You came to the (unwritten) con cl us10 n t a at '·military training is not compatable with the function and goals of a university". I do not agree. ROTC is not an intellectual pursuit; for this reason we want to take credit away from the ROTC courses. This is the coursy of action which I endorse. I feel this would take the pressure of a "University­Military complex" formation off of the community. But as far as being free, an individual in be­ginning ROTC (first two years) is free to quit as he is to drop any academic course. He thus has not lost his freedom, nor his autonomy, nor is his complete independence irretrievable. Nor do I think Fr. Hesburg'l (whom you quote) would agree that joining organizations as~ures one a loss of freedom, independence, or autonomy. Anyone ,;an quit ROTC-I did two years ago, because it was not meaningful to me. To some of my friends it is, and I don't think they should suffer for anyone's disagreement with ROTC We allow an organi­zation called SDS on campus­some of us do not agree with its philosophy. 
But if we are truely to be a liberal institution, we must allow every individual the right of choosing which organi­zations HE wants to be affiliated to, without discluding any of 
them from munity.  the  university  com­ 
Jim Lehner 411 Fisher  


_T_U_E_SD_A_Y~,M_A_Y_6~._100_9____________________~------~TJ.lE OBS~~ PAGE 5 
" ... I lived with the characters ...
A once and future success 
became a little different for seeing it." 
by Dave Edmonds 

A drama l:ritk: onl:e said that theatre is life. The Notre Dame -St. Mary's Theatre produl:tion of Camelot was horn last weekend, and I wish it a happy life. 
Camelot is Lerner and Loewe's adaptation of T.H. White's hook The Once and Future II. ing. It is the story of King Arthur's Round Table of Knights that you remember from your childhood. It opens with King Arthur perched high in a tree attempting to gain a look at his new bride Cuenevere and ends with his armies poised to rcga in her from a castle in Franl:c. In between, however, is a whole other world: a life full of magic, new ideals, enl:hantcd invisible forests and enl:hanting visible performances. 
King Pellinore, the absent-minded old friend of aArthur is played by Willem O'Reilly. After seeing him in Candida anti Antigone, and this role, I'm beginning to think that O'Reilly is really 60 years old. !lis performam;e here, captures the humor and very spirit of Pellinore. 
Tom Broderick has the role of Lancelot. He has a good singing voice and the believably romantic stature of the best knight of the Round Table. His acting however is stiff. Whether this is inexperience or an accurate portrayal of a stiff character, I cannot say. 
As an athletic team is said to be excellent when it has a good bench, the secondary roles in Camelot arc all well-executed. Chuck Perrin's Mordred is viic and despicable, as his staging of "The Seven Deadly 


Lance Davis, the recent recipient of a coveted McKnight Fellowship at the University of Minnesota, plays the lead role of King Arthur. "Lives" the role of Arthur would be more appropriate however, for his performance is one that leaps from the stage to become a part of the lives of the audience. It is clear that Davis loves acting, in the way that he uses his props and the acting surface itself. He has amazing control of his body at all times, and when he flaps his arms and wishes he was a hawk, I half expect him to take off. Davis seems to draw energy and life from the stage. llis role is one of many moods, a difficult one. He must develop from the legendary founder of England to the husband being deceived by his wife and his best friend. The play moves when he is on stage, and the dialogue lights up with the sparkle of his wit. lie plays a King Arthur that is different and I think more real or more comprehensible than the Arthurs of Richard Harris and Richard Burton. 
Playing his wife, Queen Guenevcre, is Phyliss Redgatc. Th1s is Miss Redgate's first appearance on the ND SMC stage, but you'd never know it. She has a magnificent voice and is a strikingly beautiful girl. Her inexperience as an actress is covered when on stage with the King, but at other times the play slows around her a bit. She is certainly an attribute to the play, and I regret that she is graduating next month. 
Virtues" perfectly shows. Gcry Gt-'l'dcs, O.P. as Merlin 
is a good show-Qpener and I enjoyed him. Carol 
Lacey plays the nymph Nimue who appears to spirit him away. Her golden makeup is exceeded in lustre only by her excellent, golden boice. Patricia Moran plays a delightfully obese Morgen LeFay, and John Sheehan steals the stage every time he sets foot on it as Sir Dinadan. Azim, the white Afgahn hound, portrays Pellinore's dog, Horrid, to perfection. The chorus of Knights and Ladies is excellent with good work from people too numerous to mention. Miss Janetta McNamara's choreography was bright, color­ful and fun, with another good performance by Judy 
DeVIiegher. The orchestra of Mr. Thomas Doyle was 
erm tic and too loud. 
Mr. Reginald F. Bain is the director of Camelot, and I like his interpretation. He believes that drama should be close to the audience. He does this physically, by playing' many scenes on the front apron of the stage and by having tnost of the actors appear through the auditorium. He brings Camelot to the audience by plying up the phantasy of the script. The neeenchanted forest for example shows both of these traits. Since a large part of Camelot is the pomp and pageantry of court life, this has to be highlighted. Mr. Bain docs this by accenting the costumes of the players, beautifully designed by Mr. William T. Byrd 
and executed by Mr. Bil Pfuderer. Mr. Byrd's one­
piece or unit set gives the actors plenty of playing 
area, and is flexible enough to fit Mr. Bain's direction. 
For such a large cast, the Director, with help from Br. 
Thomas Doyle, CSC, skillfully ordered the group 
numbers. The ensemble "Guenevere" was especially 
good sounding, considering how spread out the 
chorus was. 

The production was perhaps "one brief shining 
hour" too long (nearly three and a half hours) but I 
lived with the characters of Camelot, and became a 
little different for seeing it. And that's what theatre is 
all about. 

'Tell it to Tommy' 
Dear Tommy: 

You arc my last resort. I have written to the 
Playboy advisor, Ann Landers, and the Hoosier 
Farmwife about my problem but none of them would 
write me back, so you are really the bottom of the 
barrel for me. 

Anyway, my problem arose on February 29 when I 
had my very first date with a St. Mary's girl. We were 
walking along viewing the sparkling shimmering tor­
rent of tl'le St. Joseph River when I finally got up 
enough courage to try and hold GrimeIda's hand. All 
of a sudden my queen picked me up and hurled me 
into the river. I tried in vain to fend her off with my 
Lord Buxton wallet but alas, after a four hour 
drinking contest (which I lost) my'billfold was light. 
Then, as it turned midnight and the full moon came 
out I saw Grimelda turn human. 
Anyhow, what I'd like are a few pointers on what 
to do if I should ever get a date again with this type. I 
know you are expert at this, as you are always 
fighting girls off yourself. 
Sincerely yours, 
Quigley X. Paxton 

Dear Quigley X. If I am your last resort, then you are my first retort. "Love pure and chased from afar." 
Grimelda may turn human at midnight but I don't. 

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
St. Mary's goes 'rah rah'
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
by Laura Haferd  referendum petition largely ignored, per­ able."  as  rapidly/ as ND. the girls who are trying  
The bombshell will explode on Sept. 20, 1969-four of them, in fact, right there on the Notre Dame football field. Hopefully, the explosion will not include tomatoes, beer cans, brickbats and cat­calls as were anticipatcd two years ago when the first attempt was made to integrate the university's cheerlcading squad with "coeds." Yes, coeducation is here to stay, isn't it'! Thursday evening at St. Angela Hall on the St. Mary's campus, thirteen very brave souls gave 1-R-1-S-H their all. The nine male members sat by critically j udg­ing the contestants on, as squad head Uel Pitts explained: "a number of criteria­ haps for the reason that the ND students want to see this experiment carried out just long enough to get some laughs and/or vicarious kicks out of it. All of these thoughts ran through the minds of the thirteen very poised chain-smokers waiting for their alphabetical interviews. "When I first heard about this, I thought it was the dumbest idea yet. But then you think of the spirit of a coeduca­tional university which is what a lot of us envy, where the male and female students get together for everything-classes, lunch, ~tudying, dates, and school spirit. St. Mary's has always yelled for the team. It's our team too, more than ever now. At  "Besides, I like to cheerlead." When asked if the Saint Mary's College administration had had anything to say about allowing its students to participate in cheerleading at ND, one girl volun­teered, " ... as long as we have 'a suitable uniform."' "I can imagine!" Someone came back from her inter­view. "They asked me if I would be intimi­dated by facing 7,000 drunks at once." "S'allright, fellas-l'd be drunk too!" Merely injest. Assuredly, St. Mary's is changing just  out tor chcerleading all expressed a will­ingness to stand up to ridicule and insult from both campuses because they feel that this type of cooperation is a mean­ingful expression of our involvement with the affairs across the road. Many girls would disagree, but we shall aU find out their success or failure when the band strikes up the fight song next Sept. and we are led in singing by not just white­trousered cheerleaders, but by blue­skirted cheerleaders standing on their shoulders, too. Next year's Notre Dame cheerleaders will include: Terry Buck, Missy McCrary, Ann Stringer, and Molly Tiernan.  
l~ch  girl  who  was  chosen  from  last  a coed school, j.ust because the girls don't  
week's field of thirty learned three dance  play on the team doesn't  mean that they  
movements, a new original cheer, and is  don't help win the game."  
being interviewed  so  that we can choose  Another girl said, "I know it's a risk,  

girls with, you k now-appear.tnce, person­and a lot of guys will hate the sight of us, ality, energy, potential for adapting to but I feel that we should show just what whatever new cheering pieces we may coeducation really means. We feel want to try, and leadership." "school spirit,' or whatever you call it, 
The girls themselves realize that it will for this university because it is part of our take a Jot more than that to appear on identity. If the Notre Dame students that field as the first official female really want us to join with their activities backers of the fighting Irish. In fact, some and invite us to, we're willing to accept, of the reaction to the whole idea has somewhat on our own terms. I myself 

been very adverse on this campus as well would like to do something to help break as on the Notre Dame campus, where the down the rigid old traditions which they Senate resolution was barely passed and a say make life at this place so uncndur­

__> 

~-Starts Wednesday 
Revlc>n
•

1nvet1ts the ("statt1sglow' 
A new breed of blusher in an easy-to-Usf' stick. t-:or a healthy, wealthy, copper-hrome glow. Shine it over makeup. Or gleam it on hare. Cheeks. Chin. (1-:verywlwre!) It colors you rich. In one shade for all compl~~xions: Terra Copper. It's a healthy helping ol color­and-shine. (And to light up the night, it comes li_osted, too.) 
New 'Terra Copper' Face Gleamer by Revlon 
Available at: 
St. Mary1s College Book Store 
Allegheny Airlines helps you beat the waiting game ... 
And saves you up to 331/3 %. 
Allegheny's Young Adult Card lets you fly whenever you want to (even holidays) and still get advance reservations .. ·· 
If you're between 12 and 22, .•., what are you waiting for? Stop by any Allegheny ticket counter and purchase your Young Adult Card. Only $10 for all of 1969. 
Allegheny Air System 

Assistant Vice President of Academic Affairs Leo Corbaci announced over the weekend that Steven J. Kast, a Mechanical Engineering major and Ronald P. Chandonia, an English and Theology major would be the Valedictorian and the Saluta­
torian, respectively, for the 1969 June graduation class. 
Kast, from Middletown, Ohio, 
had an average of 4.000, while 
Chandonia, from Mishawaka, 
Indiana, had an average of 
3.970. 

Kast has been on the staff of Tech Review for two years and an Associate Editor this year. For two years, he had been active in the American Society for Mechanical Engineers. He has also been a member of Tau Beta Phi for three semesters. Kast plans to do graduate work at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology working toward a Masters and Doctorate degree in Nuclear Engineering. 
Chandonia, who had been in the Seminary until the middle of last year, has worked in neigh­borhood study programs and wrote the course evaluation for the Theology Department last semester. 
Mass today for 
victim of crash 

On Tuesday, May 6 at 5:15 PM, there will be a memorial Mass for Michael Rosick, killed in a car crash Sunday. • 
As of last night, there was no change in the critical condition of Michael Buzas, a Junior Business student. The Prosecuter has not pressed charges con­cerning the accident in which the two Notre Dame students were involved. 
ELECT ED RDICKLE 
OFF CAMPUS CANDIDATE 
SLC 

We have a lot more going for you 
TUESDAY, MAY 6,1969 
' 

THE WORLD TODAY 
Abe Fortas comes under fire again 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Members of Congress called on Abe 
Fortas yesterday to resign his Supreme Court seat or answer 
questions raised by his acceptance of a research fee from the family 
foundation of an imprisoned financier. 
Rep. H. R. Gross, R-Iowa, demanded the initiation of 
impeachment proceedings against Fortas if he does not resign, but 
there was no indication that the House would act on his proposal. 
Only one Supreme Court justice has ever been impeached, and the 
Senate failed to convict him. 
From Fortas, who took his regular post when the Supreme Court 
handed down decisions Monday, there was no further word beyond 
the mimeographed statement he issued Sunday saying he returned 
the fee from the foundation headed by Louis Wolfson, now serving a 
one year prison term for stock market manipulation. 
National Guard steps in at Southern U. 
(UPI) -Gov. John J. McKeithen of Louisiana called out the National Guard yesterday and vowed to use "whatever force is required" to end an occupation by Negro students of offices of Southern University in New Orleans. 
About 250 young Negroes were arrested outside the Alabama capitol in Montgomery when they refused to disperse after demanding the resignation of the r·resident of Alabama State College. 
New York City police arrested 10 students who blocked gates at Pratt Institute in downtown Brooklyn. Defiant protesters kept a blockade clamped on City College of New York. 
Arsonists and vandals struck at several college campuses across the nation. 
Fires hit Reserve Officers Trdining Corps quarters at Harvard and West Michigan Univcr::.itics and three buildings at Temple University in Philadelphia. 
A dynamite bomb caused an estimated $2,000 damage to the main chapel of the Pacific School of Religion in Berkeley, Calif. 
Disperse Czechs displaying US flags 
PI LSEN, Czechoslovakia (UPI) -Riot police yesterday night 
dispersed citizens of this beer brewing city who displayed American 
flags in defiance of official orders to tone down ceremonies marking 
the 24th anniversary of its World War II liberation by the U.S. 
Army. 
Several persons were taken away in a police car, including a young 
worker who unfurled a large American flag. 
The force of riot police, about I00 men wearing steel helmets, 
advanced into the crowd with two water cannon trucks. 
For two hours a crowd of several thousand people had placed tiny 
American paper flags and spring flowers on a grassy square where a 
partly finished monument to U.S. soldiers was torn down by the 
Stalinist Communist regime in the 1950s. 
The police ripped out the American flags but left Czechoslovak 
banners, flowers and pictures of Tomas Masaryk and Eduard Benes, 
the founders of pre-Communist Czechoslovakia. 
L.A. and Sf. louis papers win Prizes 
NEW YORK, ( UPI) -Exposes of wrongdoing in city government 
and a labor union captured two of the coveted Pulitzer Prizes for 
1969 announced yesterday by Columbia University. 
Th~ Los Angeles Times won the prize for public service for i_ts 
disclosure of wrongdoing withing Los Angeles government commis­
sions. The articles resulted in both criminal convictions and 
resignations of commission members. 
Albert L. Delugach and Denny Walsh of the St. Louis Globe 
Democrat were honored for a series exposing fraud and abusive 
power in local 562 of the St. Louis Steamfitters Union. They won 
the award for special local reporting. 
No alliance for Socialists, Communists 
PARIS (UPI)-France's Socialists and Communists scrapped their 
efforts to form an alliance yesterday, and each named rival 
candidates for the June I presidential election. 
While the two main opposition groups were involved in the public 
quarreling that Jed to Monday's split, the Gaullists already had 
closed ranks behind their candidate, Georges Pompidou, who now is 
in a position to win election on the first ballot. 
The only time Socialists and Communists ever gave former 
President Charles de Gaulle a close call at the polls was in 1965 when 
they put up Francois Mitterrand as a joint candidate. Mitterrand 
forced De Gaulle into a runoff, where he lost to the general. 
K of C OPEN HOUSE CLEOPATRA 
Liz Taylor 

SHOWINGS MAY 7 
2, 6, 9:15, 12:30  
AIR  CONDITIONED BLDG.  
---­ ·---·  -----------'  







TUESDAY, MAY6,1969 TliZ_ OBSERJJDl. __ 
Letters to the editor 
Editor: 

Having very recently returned from hearing a portion of the Board of Trustees attempt to answer queries from conerned students, I am appaled ut their gall in asking us to trust them as an efficient law making body who governs this University and the lives of her students. 
Why whould we trust a Board as heing up to-date when its chairman admits that he did not know co education is the pres­sing problem it is "down here"? 
Ilow can we possibly put trust 

in their vistion in governing us when the slinging issue of ROTC is sloughed off in the usual "we'll-treat -it-at-a -later-date" stu II, a later date, incidently, thut will arrive some time at the Board's twice a year meetings? 
Do they deserve our trust if 

Film debate 
The controversy over the con­flict between the film MARAT SADE, and the horror film series for this weekend was sparked 
anew yesterday when Samuel McClelland issued a debate chat­lenge to David Kuhn. McClelland is in charge of the horror film series, which is a project to mise money for his Communications Arts class. Kahn is the head of the student film club, which runs Cinema 69. 
Commenting on a petition cir­
culated by Kahn which alleges l hat McClelland has no right to schedule conflicts with Cinema 69, McClelland said, "The peti­tion is ;\roost entirely false. At the very best it is distorted and one-sided. It is only fair that the student body should have access to both points of view. They should have a chance to decide for themselves. Therefore I would like to debate David in public, so that these views can be aired." 
Commenting further McClelland said, "It is unfair that one group of students should be made to suffer, be­cause another group of students believes they have an exclusive right to run films." 
When asked if anything had come of Kahn's threat to have the administration intervene, McClelland said, "As far as I know the university has declined to decide the issue, so far. They don't seem to want to get in­volved." 
McCelland said though that he 
"doesn't want the administra­
tion to decide what films should 
be shown." 
McClelland also commented 

on the film program run by· Kahn saying, "This program is the scapegoat (horror fillms) for a rather badly managed program from a financial point of view. There have ·been some excellent films and some horrible films." 
McClelland said that he would 

~'like the debate to be held on Wednesday if possible, or any-! time next week." He said that he was going to be in Washington from Thursday on, so as to make 
his appeanwce  impossible  after  
Wednesday.  J  
David  Kahn  was  unavailable  

for comment, however excerptE 
GENESIS 1 
Jt"i/1 make your eyes h/eed: tonight 

~ 
. they refuse to show us the minutes of their meetings, and 
reserve  sa cro-sa net  "confiden­ 
tial  business"  for  themselves  
only'!  

Should we trust anyone who talks ahout the questions instead of answering them, who evades issues and spews forth cocktail­hour mumbo-jumbo at u lime when serious questions deserve struight answers? 
Finally, why should we tmst them to govern our lives when they don't even trust us with a young woman in our rooms? 
I would like to know just who these suCl:cssful capitalists think they ure kidding. Vincent M. Spohn 
335 Dillon llall 
Editor: Concerning Tom Ehrbar's column "A man and his 
renews 
were taken out of the petition which was circulated in front of Washington Hall Thursday night. 
"The non-commercial orienta­tion of the S.F.F.S. serves to elevate and educate the tastes of the campus, mther than to ex­ploit them. The object of the series is to introduce, campus wide, a sophisticated level of film-consciousness. Financial autonomy has made this feat women," I doubt that he's a man and I know he has no women. Why don't he and "Tell it to Tommy" stroll hand in hand into the sunset like the true lovers I hey really are. 
Ann Conway 
!lank Bell 
Shaun Reynolds 
Dave Stauffer 

"IT WOULD BE HARD TO FIND A MORE REPRESENTATIVE SELECTION THAT IS AT THE SAME TIME AS IMPRESSIVE AS THIS ONE .. :' 
-Palo Alto Times 
"A PERSUASIVE COLLECTION OF EXCITING NEW TRICKS ... WITH FINESSE AND SOMETIMES BRILLIANCE AND ALWAYS GUSTO .•." 
TONIGHT! £~GIN££RING AUDITORIUM Tues., May 6 ;Thurs., May 8 
7:00, 9:30 PM $1.00 students $1.50 general 
PAGE 7 

Sophomore literary Festival Interviews 
Chairmanship Interviews Rm. 2E LaFortune Other Officers first floor LaFortune Wed. May 7 6:30PM 
AN EVOLUTION IN FILM! 
Why isCamaro 
the pace caragain? 
Camaro SS has been !'hosen to be the Indy 500 pace car for the second lime in three years. That's because it has what it takes. 
Engine choices start with a standard 300-hp 350-cu.-in. Turbo-Fire V8 and run up t.o a 325-hp 396-cu.-in. Turbo-Jet job. There's even a new Super Scoop hood you can order. It opens on acceleration, pouring cooler air into the engine for more go power. 
The SS version of the Hugger grips the road with wide-oval tires on 14 x 7-inch-wide wheels, beefed-

up suspension and power disc brakes. 
The transmission comes linked to a 3-speed floor shift. Ifyou want still more, there's a 4-speed Hurst shifter available. 
Indy's tough. So's Camaro SS. When it comes to pacesetting, it's pretty dear that Camaro knows its way around. Start setting a pace of your own. At your Chevrolet dealer's now. Putting you first, keeps us first. 
Pacesetter Values at our Sports Department. 
r 
I f I I PAGES THE OBSERVER. TUESDAY, MAY 6,1969
I 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllrtlllllllllllllllllllfllllll•
I I 

I I 
I Penalties hurt ruggers
I 
~ 
I The Rugby Club put on a fine I 
defensive show this weekend in
I 
I the 16-team Midwest Rugby I 
Tournament, but still came 
I 
home without the title. Lack of
I 
I offensive punch hurt the ruggers I who ended up 2-2 after two days
I 
I of competition. I ND opened a grueling, three-­
I 
game Saturday schedule by los­ing to Wisconsin 6-0. The game was marred by ten penalties whistled against the Irish, per­haps as a result of a protest lodged by Michigan State with the Midwest Rugby Association against Notre Dame for "dirty play." The Badgers converted 2-10, never crossing the Irish goal line except through the air. 
The University of Chicago and the Lyons Club of Chicago were Irish victims of Saturday after­noon. The Maroons fell 21-0 and Lyons 9-3. On Sunday morning, however, St. Louis hung an 8-0 defeat on ND. Of the 17 point 
Bost.108 L.A. 106 

Editor: 
A recent article in The Obser­

ver concerning your Rugby Club 
at Notre Dame was brought to 
my attention today by one of 
my fellow students. In it, John 
Heinrich, the Sports Editm 
made some statements, which, 
to say the least, deserve clarifica­
tion. 
This particular article told the tale .of the Notre Dame Rugby Football Club manhandling its opponents on the Island of Ber­muda, and gallantly sweeping away the British Commonwealth Cup. It also mentions the "fact" that Holy Cross "whipped" Fair­field; the losers then, after seeing the might of the Fighting Irish were awestruck and refused to take the field against such a powerful team. 
At this point, I'll call for a time out. The Fairfield Univer­sity Rugby Football Club arrived in Bermuda on April 3, 1969. After three days of sun, beer, and relaxation the entire club 
decided that since we had no commitment to play anyone in Bermuda, we would use the rest of our Easter vacation for rest and recouperation, as a prepara­tion for the remainder of our vigorous Spring schedule. When Holy Cross arrived, we informed them of our plans, just as I also did to one gentleman from 
Notre Dame, who apparently scored against the ruggers, 14 
ding defending champ Army.

came on penalty kicks. 
The tourney begins Saturday
Matt Connolly, John Dostal, 
morning at 9:00 with the first of 

and Joe Dugan each scored 
four games behind Stepan Cen­

"tries" as the "B" squad took its 
ter. The consolation and final 

only weekend tussle, 9-0 over 
matches will be held in the 

Kent State. 
Stadium on Sunday. Tickets for 
This coming weekend is the 
the finals arc $1 .00, obtainable

Irish Challagne Cup, featuring 
from any ruggcr.
NO and three other teams, inclu-

Golfers 8th at OSU 
The University of Houston shook off some opening-day doldrums to take the Northern Intercollegiate golf tournament by ten strokes. Third behind Purdue and host Ohio State after thirty-six holes on Friday, the Cougars rallied to take the title with a total of 1,514 strokes. 
Notre Dame faced badly on Saturday, falling from fifth to eighth place at 1,571. The one bright spot for Rev. Clarence Durbin's golfers was the perfor­mance of Bob Wilson, who captured runner-up medalist honors. Wilson led after eighteen holes on Friday with a 70, but his finishing 70-78-71-79-298 was five strokes higher than the total of 
Baseball Standings 
American-East  National-East  
w  L  Pet.  GB  w  L  Pet.  GB  
Baltimore  20  8  .714  Chicago  18  9  .667  
Washington  16  11  .593  3'h  Pittsburgh  15  10  .600  2  
Boston  14  10  .583  4  Philadelphia  11  11  .500  4'h  
Detroit  11  13  .458  .7  New York  11  14  .440  6  
New York  11  15  .423  8  St. Louis  10  15  .400  7  
Cleveland  3  18  .143  13'h  Montreal  9  15  .375  7'h  
West  West  
w  L  Pet.  GB  w  L  Pet.  GB  
Minnesota  16  7  .696  Atlanta  17  8  .680  - 
Oakland  14  10  .583  2%  San Fran  15  10  .600  2  
Kansas City  13  11  .542  3'h  Los Angeles  15  10  .600  2  
Chicago  8  11  .421  6  Cincinnati  11  14  .440  6  
California  8  13  .381  7  San Diego  12  16  .429  6'h  
Seattle  8  15  .348  8  Houston  8  20  .286  10%  

MONDAY-NO GAMES SCHEDULED EITHER LEAGUE 
Lynn Janson from Michigan 
State. 
Purdue trailed Houston at 
1,524 strokes, with Ohio State 
and Michigan State tied at 1,525. 
Other Notre Dame scores 
were: Bill Cvengros, 308; 
Charley Musick, 317; Bob 
Battaglia, 323; Mike Brands, 
332; and Charley Martinex, 333. 
Sailing 
The Notre Dame Sailing Team was represented at two regattas last weekend. The victory at Detroit March 22-23 qualified them for Midwest Team Racing Championships held at Ohio State University May 3-4. The helmsmen did not fare as well at Columbus, however, as Ohio Wesleyan University de­feated them 3 to l. Skippers for the team were team captain Richie Doyle, Bill McElroy, Jim Keleher, and Chuck Taylor. 
At Lafayette, also, the wind was not with the team as N.D. snatched third place by one point, trailing Purdue U. and Bowling Green U. by a wide margin. This showing was mainly due to the efforts of skipper Pat Leonardo, who was second place low-point skipper in B division. Team captain Doyle re­marked: "The team is entitled to a bad weekend. I'm happy that it was this one instead of next week at the Midwest Champs." 

What happened •
1n Bermuda? 
had a vocabulary problem, for 
he insisted on referring to Fair­
field in rather barbaric and bois­
terous Language. 
As far as Fairfield losing to 
Holy Cross... wcll, just five 
months ago, Fairfield beat the 
Crusaders 12-3 at Holy Cross. 
We have not played them since. 
If, I recall correctly (and I do) 
the score of you game with Holy 
Cross was 8-5, in favor of Notre 
Dame. I am cognizant of the fact 
that comparitive scores arc no 
criterion for recognition of the 
superiority of a team we ques­
tion, but, I did wish to set the 
record straight. 

Another point: Fairfield is not afraid to play anyone. We would love to entertain Notre Dame for A, B, C and D matches next Fall or Spring. Since, your club is so successful on its tours, I'm sure it would he no trouble to arrange a trip East. Please get in touch with us is you still desire to play. 
One final point is that of the British Commonwealth Cup. I never realized just how much was at stake in that one match played in Bermuda. Perhaps, Mr. Heinrich, isjust a little confused; there was no tournament for any Rugby cup while Notre Dame was in Bermuda. Instead of the Commonwealth Cup, may I sug­gest an award to either Mr. Heinrich or the gentleman who concocted the report on Bermu­da for the best original fiction effort of 1969. · 
Respectfully, President, F.R.C. 

4th win for netmen 
Notre Dame's netmen re­turned home yesterday after a tough, 54 loss to Bowling Green, and trounced Western Michigan 6-3. The split left the Irish with a 4-6 record. 
Last Thursday at Bowling Green, ND fell behind 4-2 in the singles as Mike Reilly (No. 2) and Greg Murray (No. 6) were victorious. Reilly and Bernie 
LeSage took the first doubles, but BG wrapped up the match by winning the following doubles contest. 
LeSage, Reilly and No. 3 Bob O'Malley opened the Western Michigan fray with wins. Murray, performing well all season in his No. 6 spot, also chalked up a win. LeSage Reilly and Tim Whiting O'Malley posted victories at one and three doubles. 
The Irish travel to the state of Michigan for games on Wednesday and Thursday before meeting St. Ambrose at home on Friday. 


sports parade 
By Milt Richman, UPI sports columnist 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
How to win games while avoiding ulcers 
NEW YORK (UPI)-DcGaulle hangs 'em up and Kosygin feels it, which makes it pretty much the same way it is in baseball where AI Lopez quits and Earl Weaver is one of those hit by the shock waves. 
Earl Weaver bosses the Baltimore Orioles and right now they're going good in first place but that doesn't mean there is no link between him and Lopez, a man who left a fourth place club because of nervous stomach trouble or between him and Alvin Dark a man struggling with a sixth place club that was able to win only three of its first 21 games. 
"Maybe it sounds funny, one manager saying this about another, 
but AI Lopez is one of my favorites," Weaver said in the Baltimore 
dugout at Yankee Stadium Sunday. "For a man to be financially 
independent like he is, and to have come back like he did because he 
knew they were in a bind at the time, tells you something about the 
kind of ma_n he is. 
"Sympathy isn't exactly the right word because in this business one manager can't really feel sorry for another" says Weaver, a brainy little fellow with 22 years in baseball. 
"But I certainly can understand how managing could affect anybody's health. No, I don't have ulcers. I holler a·nd let it out." 
Lopez didn't. He kept it all inside him and all his fellow managers knew it. They also knew he wasn't lacking for money and the White Sox front office had to persuade him to return as manager last summer after he had "retired" once before. 
"His job wasn't predicated on winning or losing. He could've been beaten in a ball game and said who the hell cares. He isn't that kind ?f man, though. I read a statement where he got beat, 5-4, in I 0 mnings and said he couldn't sleep that night." 
Weaver took over the Orioles after the all-star break last season and brought them home in second place. Now he has 'em there on top and ~hinks they have a ?ood chance of finishing there. Managing eve~ a f1rst place club has 1ts moments which tie a manager's belly up m knots, though. 
Last Wednesday produced one of those moments. Southpaw Dave McNally, a 22 game winner last year and the ace of Baltimore's staff, started against Detroit that night with a spotless 3-0 record and also had a 3-0 lead when he walked the leadoff man in the eighth inning and gave up a single to AI Kaline. 
"Willie Horton was up next and he has hit eight homers off McNally in two years. I knew I had to take McNally out but I hated to do it with a 3-0 lead," Weaver said. 
"What did McNally say to you when you went out to get him?" the Orioles manager was asked . "He understood. He said he should've never walked the first man up in the inning." 
So Weaver brought in right bander Eddie Watt from the bullpen, Watt threw one pitch, and Horton hit a perfect double play ball to always reliable Brooks Robinson at third. Always reliable Brooks Robinson let that perfect double play ball skip right through his legs, however, and that gave the Tigers one run. 
Weaver's stomach churned a bit and it did some more when Bill Frcchan blooped a pitch in on his fists over second baseman Dave Johnson's head to make it 3-2 before Pete Richert relieved Watt and struck out Norm Cash, finishing off the Tigers for good. 
It wasn't that much different Sunday when McNally ran his record to 5-0 in a 5-3 win over the Yankees in the opener of a doubleheader that Baltimore swept. 
Again McNally wasn't around at the end; again Watt helped him out and again Richert scaled off the final threat. Naturally, there was that knot in Earl Weaver's stomach again. 
Major League Leaders 
William H. Connolly 

National League  
GAB  H  
Jones, NY  25 98  39  
Alou,Pit  25 106  42  
II.Aaron,Atl  25 87  34  
Laboy,Mtl  24 90  34  
Hebner,Pit  19 65  24  
Allen, Phil  15 55  20  
Mays, SF  23 89  32  
Jones, Mtl  24 90  31  
Spngler,Chi  22 65  22  
Alou, Atl  23 93  31  
American League  
GAB  H  
Carew, Min  19 81  32  
Ptrcli, Bos  24 83  32  
Cater, Oak  24 98  34  
Brdfrd, Chi  18 61  21  
H.Allen,Wash  22 70  24  
F.Rbnsn, Bal  28 106  36  
Rechrdt,Cal  21 69  23  
Hegan, Sea  1858  19  

Cardns, Min 23 89 29 .326 
Pet. 

Adair, KC 18 68 22 .324 .398 .396 Home Run~ .391 
NATIONAL LEAGUE: .378 McCovey, San Fran 8; Cepeda, .369 Atla and Santo, Chi 6; Seven .364 tied with 5. 
.360 AMERICAN LEAGUE: F. .344 Robinson, Balto and Howard, .338 Wash 10; Jackson, Oak 9; Pcp­.333 itone, NY 8; Petrocelli, Bos, 
Murcer, NY and Bando, Oak 7. Pet. Runs Batted In .395 NAT I 0 N A L LEAGUE: .386 Tolan, Cin, Santo, Chi and .347 McCovcy, San Fran 22; Cepeda, .344 Atla and Bench, Cin 20. .343 AMERICAN lEAGUE: F. .340 Robinson, Balto and Murcer, NY .333 25; Howard, Wash 22; Bando .328 and Cater, Oak 20. 

