NASSER DEAD-ALERT CALLED 
Story on Page 2 


Vol. V, No.l5 Serving the Notre Dame and Sa{nt Mary's College ('ommuni~l' 
Observer editor Bach resigns Publication suspended 
The Observer is suspending publication with this edition ­but it is not dead. 
Observer Editor Dave Bach resigned late yesterday evening. He cited as reasons for his resignation the difficulties in putting out a quality newspaper with the limitations and pres­sures placed on the present staff. 
Bach pointed out that The Observer needed professional help in training writers and other personal. He also felt that the paper had grown too fast and that the pressures of daily publi­cation had limited the ability of upperclassmen editors to direct and counsel underclassmen. 
Observer Publisher Guy De Sapia pointed out that The Ob­server has been forced to con­tinue to publish five days a week in order to avoid financial disas­ter. 
De, Sapia pointed out that editors in the past two years have not been able to evaluate the question of the frequency of publication on its merits. The decision was always based on the need to publish five days a week in order to attract the adver­tising needed to survive. 
Meeting late last night, the editorial board of The Observer decided to suspend publication until the faculty advisory board of the paper could meet to give the staff advice on procedure. 
The editorial board pointed out that the following problems would have to be solved before publication could resume. 

First, the advisory board will have to select a new editor for the paper. The position is open to any student from St. Mary's or Notre Dame. Application can be made by submitting a state­ment of intent to: The Observer Board of Directors, Box 11 , Notre Dame. 
Second, consultations will be 

THE OBSERVER was born on November 3, 1966. It was published sporadically twice a week for the remainder of the year. Twelve editions in all 
Under Editor Pat Collins, THE OB­SERVER began to assert itself in its second year. It came out twice a week, then three times a week. The last two weeks of the year under newly-appointed editor Bill Luking the paper began daily publication. 
Under Luking, THE OBSERVER pub­lished daily during the 1968-69 school year. 
It also published football specials on the Saturday's of home football weekends. The paper has not missed a daily publication date since that time. It also inaugurated basket­ball and hockey program specials for hom,e games last year. 
SMC OC housing approved 
by Kate Cassidy The Saint Mary's College Stu­dent Affairs Committee last night passed an off-campus hous­ing policy giving juniors, seniors or students over 21 the right to move off campus in the coming year. The exact proposal of the Committee reads as follows: "-Any student who is a junior, senior, or over 21 has the right to live in off-campus housing by making application with the Director of Housing. The parent's permission must be pre­sented to the Director of Hous­ing at the time of the application if the student is under 21. -If however, the junior, senior or student over 21, who has already registered a room on campus decides to move off, she cannot do so until her bed is filled. -Responsibility for the con­dition, location, and legal as­pects of the housing will be assumed by the student ( or the student and her parents if the student is under 21 ). The add­ress of the off-campus residence must be registered with the Di­
rector of Housing." 
Debate centered around the question of the protection of the college in the event that too many students would decide to move off-campus, and dorms were not filled to capacity. 
The Committee finally decid­ed to preface the bill when it is presented to the Student Affairs Council with the assurance that the policy will be re-evaluated next year. 
made with members of the Notre Dame Department of Communications Arts and with other officials of the university to determine whether profes­sional aid can be obtained in helping to set up the staff. Ef­forts will also be made to obtain academic credit for Observer person ell. 
Third, a decision would have to be made as to how frequently the paper will be published. 
Fourth, efforts will be made to establish a sound financial basis for the paper in order to eliminate frequent concern over the paper's ability to publish for financial reasons. 
An executive committee of 

Bach,  De  Sapia,  News  Editor  
Jim  Holsinger,  Campus  Editor  
Glen  Corso,  Feature's  Editor  

T.C. Treanor and Associate Edi­tor Cliff Wintrode has been es­tablished to guide efforts toward resumption of publication. 
Currently The Observer suf­fers not only from staff and professional journalistic pro­blems but also from its lack of financial stability. 
The Observer's continued existence has depended during the last few years on a financial subsidy from student govern-. ment. This year The Observer was able to break the tie by obtaining approval from the Vice President's Council to place a two dollar subscription fee on 

tion will be resumed if the staff can receive the cooperation of the university com­munity in solving problems that it faces. 
The VOICE -Thursday, October 17, 1966 
"The VOICE was created to act as a medium for the expression of student thought and activity. It sought no more than to shed a true perspective on Notre Dame and its student body, a perspective filled out with the humor and insight that only partici­pation brings." 
"To find the men to put out the paper once a week had been hard enough. The strain of twice weekly publication made it almost impossible to find enough good men to cover the news of Notre Dame. As a result, The VOICE often went to press the final product of a small group of dedicated men. 
This was caused not only by the burden of frequent deadlines, but also by the lack of training available for the members of the staff. Dedication is a virtue that can carry a venture only so far." 
"In spite of the magnitude of these obstacles, The VOICE has still managed to exist. It didn't always appear regularly ­lack of money, news and newsmen often necessitated dropping an issue. The amazing thing to many of its cynical followers was that The VOICE would always come back." 
"Men interested in doing something for Notre Dame put all they had to see that Notre Dame produces one of the best collegiate newspapers in the country. 
a student's account to obtain the necessary funds. The Observer had hoped to obtain between $1Q,OOO and $12,000 from the fee. Although this sum would be enough to enable The Observer to continue to operate it is not enough to allow The Observer to obtain the equipment needed to put out a 
daily paper that looked pro­fessional. 
De Sapia contrasted The Ob­server's financial aid from the university with that which The Scholastic receives. The Scholas­tic,· which is an official univer­sity publication receives an an­nual subsidy of $58,000 from the university. The sum comes out of tuition fees collected. Part of the sum goes to financial aid for the editors of the maga­zine. 
De Sapia pointed out that half the sum which The Scholas­tic receives would be more than enough, when coupled with ad­vertising revenue to allow The Observer to operate safely. 
He noted that currently no 
member of The Observer edi­

New flog raising procedure is designed to 
torial staff receives monetary compensation for his work. The money collected from the 


make solute on aHirmotion of devotion 
The new salute to the flag at football games is an attempt to show "more than just one facet of the world community.," says Dave Krashna, Student Body President. The new ceremony was inagurated last week to make the salute a true affi;ma­tion of devotion. 
Rev.. James Burtchaell, Pro­vost, emphasized that the new procedure is not intended to exclude the ROTC from the presentation, but rather to in-elude people and groups who are equally deserving of the honor. Krashna told of his reluctance to make the military aspect the sole object of the ceremony. 
According to Fr. Burtchaell the idea has met with the ap~ proval of the ROTC, and, over­all, there have been no objec­tions form any side. 
Tentative plans for future ceremonies call for representa­tives from Student Government the Administration, Faculty, and 
student body this year for The various segments of the univer­Observer remains deposited with sity community to take part in 
(Continued on page 3)

the presentation. The salute will be accompanied by a reading; (last Saturday's included a text from Adlai Stevenson). Both Burtchaell and Krashna hope that the new procedure with emphasize not only the significance of the occasion, but also the fact that the flag repre­sents more than its traditional association with the military. 
The Editorial board wishes to apologize to any members of the staff who could not be contacted last night to be informed of the decision. 
Members of the Executive Committee can be contacted for information about the paper. The paper's business offices will be open as usual. 
Page2 
Tuesday, September 29, 1970

THE OBSERfJIR. 

New Freshman Reading Course Offered 
by Tom Gora 

Professor Musial said that ministrative channels, and first aware vf the opportunities thatA new reading discussion lege Seminar Office, first floor"the seniors have selected im­appeared this fall in what was exist on the campus. One of thecourse called the Freshman Collo­of O'Shaughnessy Hall, beforePortant readings and extra­described as a free, changeable best ways to realize this goal, he quium 181 has been offered this five o'clock, Tuesday. Thecurricular activities to make the form. Professor Musial explained said, was to make this course
fall, on a limited basis, to the classes are co-educational, and
freshman aware of the various that since about 80% of all learn­available to all freshmen. members of the Notre Dame-St. are offered at three differenteducational opportunities." He ing is done outside of classes, Professor Musial asserted that
Mary's freshman community. times on Thursdays, at both
also stated that he was quite sur­and that "some of the most im­there are still some openings in
The purpose of the course is to campuses. The course will be
prised at the amount of prepara­portant things will be learned this semester's classes, and that
acquaint freshmen with the offered again next spring for
tion and foresight which had outside of class," it is imperative anyone wishing to register for 
many opportunities for learning those wishing to enroll then. 
gone into each class plan, and that the freshmen are made the course could do so in the C:ol­and personal growth that exist at that he often had to remind theNotre Dame by exploring the seniors that this course was to beaims, methods, scope, and possi­a supplement to regular courses, 

Nasser heart attack victim
bilities of college education. and not a full-scale addition. Through readings and discus­

sion, the students will have the opportunity to broaden their understanding of "the impor­tance and excitement of devel­oping the discursive and dialec­tical abilities needed to be a par­ticipating member of a community of intellectual in­quiry." The one semester hour credit course is directed by professors Byrd and Musial through the  Professor Musial believes there is an advantage in having senioci lead the colloquium course; "Since they (the se.niors) have participated in and contributed to the university experience, they are well qualified to teach a course like this," he said. Each of the _ participating seniors is currently enrolled in the Senior s,eminar or Humanis­tic Education Program, headed  Vice-pres CAIRO (UPI)-President Gamal Abdel Nasser of Egypt, who unified a divided Arab world and was the greatest figure in its modern history, died Mon­day of a heart attack at the age of 52. His death raised the spec­tor of chaos in the Middle East. Nasser was striken at Cairo  ident takes over suburban Cairo home at 3: IS pm which is ll am EDT. Vice President Anwar Sadat announced Nasser's death in a brief broadast over Cairo radio in which he said "no words can console us... the only thing is for the Arab nation to remain patient until the victory for  In Cairo, Egyptians were at first dazed and incredulous at the news. Then, they broke into tears and wept without shame. "No, No!" screamed one driver as he beat his head with both hands. "It is not possible!" Women screamed from bal­conies. Crowds converged on the  
Senior  Seminar  of Humanistic  by Professors  Byrd and Musial,  Airport while seei~g  off Sheikh  which  he  lived  and  died  is  palace.  
Education  Program. Groups of  which  includes  education  Sabah  AI  Salim AI  Sabah, the  achieved."  ·  There  was  weeping  too,  in  
l 0 to 15 students, meeting once  theory, objectives, implementa­ ruler of Kuwait and  one  of the  "A number of doctors arrived  Beirut, Lebanon, where portraits  
a week for 75 minutes, are led in  tion,  and style. The seniors are  Arab leaders who had attended  immediately and  found his  ex­ of  Nasser's  smiling  face  look  
reading and discussion by care­ also being prepared for the prac­ the  summit  conference  Nasser  cellency to be suffering from an  down from many walls. The tall,  
fully  selected  St.  Mary's  and  tical appiication of their seminar  called  to  end  the  civil  war  in  acute  heart  attack  which  re­ bulky  and  graying Nasser,  was  
Notre  Dame seniors enrolled in  course, which has been realized  Jordan.  sulted  from  a  blockage of the  the  idol  of  the  Arab  masses.  
the  seminar.  The  two  senior  in  the  Freshman  Colloquium  The  Egyptian president sud­ heart artery," a medical bulletin  Shopkeepers in Beirut slammed  
leaders for each group have se­ course.  denly  complained  of  feeling  said.  down their iron gates and closed  
lected materials to be used in the  The idea for such a class origi­ dizzy  and weak and began per­ "All  necessary  medical  aid  in  mourning when  news  of the  
course,  and  have  submitted  nated in the Senior Seminar last  spiring profusely,  a  medical re­ was  administered  to  his excel­ death was received.  
syllabi to approval._  Professor  Musial for  year, developed through the Academic Council and the Ad- port signed by five doctors said. _l-Ie Wl!S taken by car to his  lency, including the use of equipment to regulate the heart  Nasser's health had never been good; he was treated earlier this  
beat. But God's will was stronger  year for diabetes and  a circula­ 
Brush ffre rages fn Cal.  and he gave up the ghost at 6: 15 pm during the administration of  tory ailment in the Union. But his death  Soviet was a ·  



LOS ANGELES (UPI) -The largest brush fire in California history raged yesterday through mountain canyons near the Mex­
. ican border, driving thousands of 
persons from their homes as the 
flames advanced. 
More than 50,000 persons were evacuated from small com­munities in San Diego County in the face of the 200,000 acre Laguna fire, which erupted in the Cleveland National Forest Saturday when a falling tree severed a power line. At least 250 structures were devoured by the flames. 
The enormous blaze, burning
CHICAGO 

in a football-shaped pattern 30 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE 

miles from tip to tip, eclipsed in 
TEL: (31:2) 944-7500 ·ZIP: 60611 

size the Matailaja fire of 1930 
Please add sales fax where applicable 

which burned 125,000 acres in Kern and Los Angeles Counties. 
............·•••••••·•·••••••••••••·•••••••••••••.....••••• ·····················.-.·.·~·····-.······· ·······;·;o;·-~·;········.-.·.·····-=········" •••••••••
;··'=···············································"····:o:·.·...·.····················-.·············=--·-·····...·,.-·-·~················· ········--=·=-»:-.o: I 
the Sea Gull 

Jl  Notre D• ..  -S•lnt M•rr'•  I  
' ~ ~  THEATRE presents  ~I  
•.•.. ~~  70  • 71 SEASON  ~~ ~ ~~  
~  ~  
'; ~  wI~  

by Anton Chekhov .... Oct. 16,17,18,22,23,24 
the Hostage 

by Brendan Behan .... Dec. 4,5,6,10,11,12 
the Little Foxes by Lilain Hellman .... Feb. 19,20,21,25 ,26,27 Lilian 
this aid." complete surprise. He appeared "We've ·barely kept up with 
Moments after Nasser's death hale and hearty Sunday as he the situation," said Arlen B. Egypt ordered a state of maxi­greeted Arab leaders at the Cairo Cartwright of the State Division 
mum alert on the Suez Canal meeting and embraced and 
of Forestry. "The problem 
cease fire front with Israel in an kissed King Hussein, a man he 
seems to come from the fact 
action taken to meet any emer­had castigated last week for 
that fire nuts -pyromaniacs ­
gency, the semiofficial Cairo waging war against the Pales­
run around and see flames and 
newspaper Al Abram said. It did tinian guerrillas. 
smoke and this makes them not elaborate, but the imp­Radio Cairo after announcing want to set more fires -which plication was that Egypt feared Nasser's death, suspended regu­that Israel may try to exploit the 
they do." 1 ar programs and broadcast Arson was suspected in two vacuum created by Nasser's readings from the Koran. Nasser, other major blazes in San Diego a devout Moslem, obeyed its
death to launch a military opera­
County, and five arrests were 
rules of abstinences from al­made in Los Agenes County. In a detailed descriotion nf chohol although he was a heavy · More than 5,000 men worked smoker. __ _ ___ _ 
tion against Egypt. 
the last moments of Nasser's life, 
36-hour shifts on the fire lines 
"The United Arab Republic,
AI Ahram quoted Nasser as tell­
and the neighboring county of 
the Arab nation and the whole
ing Mohammed Hasenein Heikal, 
San Bernardino was stripped of 
of humanity have lost one of
his close friend and Minister of
all but five of its fire engines. A 
their most precious, most coura­
lnformatio that he was very
500 acre fire started in that 
geous and most sincere men,"
tired after the summit con­
county Monday afternoon. 
Vice President Sadat said. "He is
ference. Heikal suggested that
In Los Angeles County, 
President Gamal Abdel Nasser
Nasser take a vacation but the
diminishing winds enabled fire 
who gave up the ghost at 6: 15
Egyptian President overruled the 
fighters to go on the offensive pm today Sept. 28, 1970, as he
idead and said: "I want to get a
for the first time against a stood in the arena of struggle
long sleep." 
30,000 acre blaze in the Malibu 
fighting for the unity of the
Nasser's death plunged the 
area near the coast. Arab nation and for the day of
Arab world into mourning. Peo­
But when a l 00-yard long, its victory." 
ple wept here and in Arab capi­
75-foot high wall of flames Sadat's statement said Nasser
tals throughout the Middle East
leaped over a ridge above Fern­was "bigger than words and he
including Amman, Jordan,
wood Canyon Monday after­will remain a longer time than
where peace keepers were trying
noon, 600 homes and one nudist words.'' It concluded by saying: 
to implement the Cairo agree­
camp were ordered evacuated "Peaceful spirit, return to your
ment between the Palestinian
for the third time in three days. God content. Go into my King­
guerrillas and King Hussein
One resident ignored the request dom, go into my heaven." 
reached under Nasser's
and lounged in a hammock. 
leadership Sundav. 
NOTRE DAME AND IT.iiARY'S StuDENTS 
You're Invited 

NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOl OPEN HOUSE 
U.S. diplomatic considered Nasser a moderate despite his fiery statements against Israel. There were fears that his death might bring radical young Egyp­tian army officers to power in Cairo and with them a new 
(continued on page 3) 
Dean Peter A. Winograd, Dean of 
Admissions of NYU Law School,

Saturday, October 3, 1970
Oliver! 
is scheduling interviews for

Law Building 9:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. EDT
by Lionel Bart .... May 1,2,6,7,8 
perspective students on Thursday, 

. 
Oct. 1 in 205 Business Building. Signups for appointments outside 
Law As A Profession 

~ LSAT Exam--What It Means, What It Is 
of Room 101 O'Shaughnesy

:::: J :::; 
How To Take It:~ subscription price .... $7.00 :::; 
The Observer is PLiblished ·daily 

Legal Educational Opportunities In The U.S. 
during the college semester except vacations by the students of the

Program At Notre Dame L3w School 
University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Db­

Notre Dame's Admission and Scholastic Policy 
Legal Educational Methods 
server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, 
Career Opportunities In Law 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.





L~.:::::::::===J 
Tuesday. September 29, 1970 
Page 3 
SL C fails to act on Judicial Code 
by Greg Pudhorodsky 
The Student Life Council met last night in the Center for Continuing Education in an un­successful effort to redesign the Burtchaell Proposal for resub­mission to the Board of Trus­tees. The Burtchaell proposal, which concerns the estab­lishment of a student Judicial Code, was defeated in the spring session of the Board of Trustees. 
The substantial extent of the meeting was spent in discussion of a recommendation by Profes­sor Edward Vasta that "the final disposition of all cases (that come before the Judicial Board) are subject to Presidential re­view." Vasta continued that the added amendment should pro­vide that if "the President or his delegate disagrees with the final disposition of any case that they should meet with the judicial body last involve<l m the case." If disagreement persisted that fmal decision would rest with the President. 
As originally written the pro­posal gave the Dean of Students the right to appeal a student's case after a private trial. Such an appeal could follow whether the student was found guilty or in­nocent of the offence. Vasta argued that "a Code which in­vites a student to seek private trial from his adversary would app~ar to mock justice." 
The discussion which followed the proposal was ex­tensive. A few of the members of the Council expressed the view that despite the fact that 
any judicial decision which lacked the Administration's backing would be weak and de-

Muskie in Senate race 
AUGUSTA (UPI)-Maine's senatorial contest is regarded as a step toward the White House for Sen. Edmund S. Muskie. 
How big a step depends on his margin of victory over his Re­publican contender, Neil S. Bishop, self styled "dirt farmer" turned high school teacher. 
Muskie, THE Democrat's 1968 vice presidential nominee, is expected to defeat Bishop for a third term. There are no "ifs," "ands" or "buts" about that, in the reasoning of the pros. The big question is: by how much? 
The size of the vote Muskie gets could bear heavily on his presidential aspirations for 1972. Going into the November elect­ion, the 56 year old Muskie is rated a frontrunner for his par­
£'dv... ded·ares

81,. 
lighted to see Bishop

'fti8Xflflllm alert Muskie's victory margin. How­
( continued from page 2) 
fullscale war against Israel. But 
first indications were that there 
would be no immediate power 
struggle. 
President Nixon, in a state 
ment issued from the U.S. air­
craft carrier Saratoga in the 
Mediterranean, called for calm in 
the Middle East a few hours 
after Nasser's death was an­
nounced. 
"The tragic loss requires that 
all nations and particularly those 
in the Middle East calm passions, 
reach for mutual understanding 
and build lasting peace," Nixon 
said. 
Nasser's body was removed to 
a Republican Palace and placed 
in state there prior to a funeral 
on Thursday. 
Al Ahram said Monday's seiz­
ure was Nasser's second heart 
attack. It said the Egyptian 
President suffered a previous 
heart attack last September, but 
it was decided to keep that 
secret and to say in public that 
he was merely ill with flu. At the 
time he spent six weeks in bed 
and doctors advised him against 
overexertion. 
ty's presidential nomination. A far closer race is the guber­natorial scrap between Demo­cratic Gov. Kenneth M. Curtiss, a progressive liberal, and Repub­lican attorney general James S. Erwin, a moderate conservative. A key issue i:; a 5 per cent state income tax Curtiss rammed through the Republican control­led legislature in 1968. The e­conomic . slump aggravated re­sentment against the levy, es­pecially among low income working people vital to Curtiss' re-election. The Curtis Erwin fight is con­sidered a toss up. Democratic Reps. Oeter N. Kyros and . William D. Hathaway are expect­ed to defeat GOP challengers with ease. Republican stategists with im eye toward 1972 would be de­deflate 
ever, Bishop has not received-and apparently will not get-White House help, except for good wishes. 
The 66 year old Bishop, a former state senator, is coming from a decade of political retire­ment. He twice was defeated in a bid for the governship and twice for Congress. 
h

Bac resigns 

(Continued from page 1) 
the university. De Sapio said that allocations of the funds would depend on consultations with Father Thomas Blantz, Vice-President for Student Af­fairs who must approve all ap­propriations. 

All other funds of The Ob­server will be placed in trust to 'be used when the paper resumes publication_. 


Memorial Mpss 

A Memorial Mass for Noel Dube, 1970 graduate of Notre Dame, will be held Tuesday, October 29 at 5:30 in Farley Hall chapel. 
,:;:;:!:!:!:::::::::::::::~:==~===~::::::::::::::!:!!!:!•!•!•!•!•!•!·!·;·~!·!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!::::::::::.:::::::::::::::!:!:!:!:~::::!:~:. 
::::  COMING  OCT. -2  &  3  ~1:1  
1m I  FANTASTIC SALE  !~l~I  
~~~~  ON STEREO HI-FI  ·~  
I AND  WATCHS~~~ ~~i~:~~~:E;DR  DETAILS  I  
l~~~  Radio Distributing Co.  ~l1t  
:;:~  1212  High  St.  Ph.  288-4666  :liii  

;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;-:;;:~~=~=~=::::;:;:::::::::::::;:;:;;:;;;;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::;:;:;:::§: 
fective, that the very structure of the University procided in­trinsic support for such deci~ sions. 
It was also brought out, the main proponent being Father James Riehle, Dean of Students, that with such wording the added amendment would also burden the office of the Presi­dency with incidences that should properly be handled on hall and similiar levels. 
With the adjournment of the meeting drawing near it was 


brought to a vote. After a brief caucus Mark Winings, Student Body. Vice-President moved that the amendment be tabled to the next agenda. The tabling process carried. It was decided, however, that a committee, consisting of three students, an administrator and a faculty member be formed to consider and present the Vasta proposal and a similiar one by Professor James Massey be­fore the next general Council meeting which will be held on October 12. 
ND-SMC THEATRE PRESENTS 
the Sea Gull 
BY ArHON CHEKHOV 
Oct. 16, 17, 22, 23, 24 at 8:30; Oct. 18 at 2:30. Tickets $1.50 Students, Faculty, ND-SMC Staff. Call284-4176 for information. 
Page_4 



'THE OBSERVER 
An lndlpendellt Student New..,.,., DAVID('.•ACH~ l:dilor (;AI~TANO M. De SAPIO. Publi:liher 
fOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1965 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

REFLECTIONS 
On Msgr. John J. McGrath 
In the current push for student participation in campus government, the vital relationship between the faculty and the administration often takes. a background position. 
Several SMC faculty members were asked for their evaluations of Msgr. John J. McGrath's two-year administration, and for their opinions as to what qualities the new president of SMC should 
possess. Sr. Franzita Kane, of the English department, said that Fr. McGrath tried to tackle the problc~m of the relationship of Catholic colleges and univer­sities to the religious orders that sponsor them. She said that he had an interest in clarifying the situation in terms of both canon and civil law, and that he prepared a document to be used as a guideline for this clarification. 
Sr. Franzita said·that Fr. McGrath believed in 
the principles of the American Association of 
Univeristy Professors (AAUP) including those wn­
cerning student rights and academic freedom. He was a leader in the movement to clarify these issues on the campus. "He was optimistic that the Christian community was the way to proceed." 
Fr. Raymond Runde, C.S.C., a faculty member 
in the education department and a close friend of 
Fr. McGrath's, said that the late president favored 
a more open curriculum and the all-college major 
and that he saw a distinction between the kinds of 
education that should be provided for men and 
women. 
He also believed in a concensus of opinion in 
order to act, but Fr. Runde added that some 
problems required a single decision. Fr. Runde ~:aid 
that Fr. McGrath opened the concept of the 
community working together and cited his eff<>rts 
to get students on various administrative 
committees. 
He added that the late president had a healthy 
rapport with Notre Dame and that he and Fr. 
Hesburgh were able to talk on a "man-to-man" 
basis. 
"He had no concept of caste," Fr. Runde 
observed. "He would tell a student what he would 
tell the faculty. He couldn't say anything he didn't 
believe...he couldn't bring himself to pretend."' 
Fr. Runde said that, if given the time, Fr. 
McGrath would have made St. Mary's a financially 
independent institution and would have obtain1~d a 
high quality faculty. He said that the Monsignor 
enjoyed being president of the college and that he 
"liked the girls and was proud of them." 
He commented that the new president should 
he__ aware of the academic situation and faculty 
;>roblems and have the courage of his convictions. 
He added that a member of the clergy would be better equipped to deal with the religious order and with Notre Dame than a lay president. 
Dr. Anthony Black, chairman of the SMC faculty assembly and a member of the history department faculty, described Fr. McGrath as having a "genuine sense of Christianity." 
"He was an orthodox Catholic theologian, which is not found here or at Notre Dame with great frequency." 
Dr. Black said that Fr. came to the college presidency at a moment when "we needed a man who could take an independent position ...he was a positive factor in our existence." 
Dr. Black pointed out that the late president was faced with a situation of transition --between the religious orders and the colleges and between SMC and ND. 
He said that Fr. McGrath had no time to make many specific moves and that his contributions were not as measurable as, for example, the erection of a new building. 
Dr. Black added that he did take a stand when necessary because "the buck stops there" -at the college presidency. 
"He was a victim of his times...and limited circumstances." 
The new president, Dr. Black commented, should be "committed to the idea that there is a place in the 20th century for an undergraduate liberal education in a Catholic framework for 
·women." 

Dr. Mark Bambanek, of the SMC chemistry department, observed that the Monsignor e:;ta­blished the concept of community at St. Mary's­"he got the wheels moving." 
Dr. Bambanek said that the late president was scholar and that he was "forced to spend time on things he liked less. The administrative and finan­cial end of it was part of his job. 
"He liked people and had planed this fall to go back to the classroom." 
Dr. Bambanek commented that Fr. McGrath was faced with what the chemistry prof calls "academic inertia," a resistance to change because change is not always identified with progress on the college campus. Fr. McGrath was confronted with outright opposition by some faculty members when he worked to include students on commit­tees, Bambanek said. 
"He tried to benefit the whole school. There was bound to be disagreement. 
"He was possibly the most human college president I have ever known, with all the connota­tions of human weaknesses and human strengths. 
r------------------------------------------------------------1 
Obser~tter StaH 
Business 
Business Manager: Bruce Rieck Advertising Manager: Bruce Barker Accountant: John Maher Secretary: Sarah Belanger Subscriptions: Tom Knoles Circulation: Frank DiTillo, Jeff Noo­nan 
Editors 
Campus Editor: GlenS. Corso News Editor: Jim Holsinger Associate News Editor: Ed Ellis Assistant News Editor: Floyd Kezele Features Editor: Tim Treanor Sports Editor: Terry Shields Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, John Knorr, Ann Conway, Sue Bury Night Editors: Don Ruane, Steve Lazar, Mary Chris Morrison, Jim Graif, John Abowd Dave Lammers 
News 
Reporters: Tom Bornholdt, Greg Pudhorodsky, Joe Griffin, Dennis Dubay, Rick Bostwick, Mark Mur· phy, Rich Flanagen, Mark Sorvillo John· Sinnwell, Mike Chapin, Do~ Capshaw Kurt Heinz, John Powers, Mary Graham, Art Ferranti, Ron Neurater, Tom Gora, Fred Schaefer, Frank Mara1co, Kevin McGill, Steve Kane, Greg Bowinski, John O'Neil 
Production 
Production Staff: Joe Abell, Tim 
Burke, Ricin Maggi, Dan Koppen­hafer, Pat Geary, Patty Cervelli, Dan Nye. Advertising Layout: Steve Dollinger, Jim Flannagan. 
St. Mary's 

SMC News Editor: Jeanne Sweeney Reporters: Kate Cassidy, Sue Mullin, Hilary Rhonan, Ann Therese Darin, Mary Sue Horvat, Kathy Schwille. 
Since THE OBSERVER is a daily operation. approximately 25 people per day are needed. This necessitates a total of 90 people on the entire staff for the entire week. The staff at pre­
sent totals 50 people. 

The opinions expressed in the editorials, news analyses, and columns of The Observer are solely the opinions of the authors and editors of The Observer and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administrations, faculty, or stucfen t bocfie~. 




Wake Up, Hanoi 
:::::::====================================::::::===================:::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Walter s.c.:t• 

Frank Borman's return from his round the world jaunt. and his 
subsequent report to the Senate raises up once more the· issue of 
American prisoners held in North Vietnam. The International Red 
Cross is not allowed to visit them; there are many wom~n in this 
country who are in limbo concerning their loved ones; and rumor 
has it that their treatment makes the tiger cages at Khe Sanh seem 
like a minimum security prison by comparison. Regardless of what 
position one takes concerning the American role in Southeast Asia 
these are_ people; and people, regardless of their criminality o; 
whatever must be treated with a certain respect for their humanity. 
'!he Senate unanimously agrees, however, that there is very little 
which can be done -unless students do it. The moral imperative for 
students to take an action wherein they inform Hanoi that any 
movement in the improving of treatment of prisoners will make the 
peace effort more credible should be obvious. Washington seems to 
be convinced th.at a letter writing campaign from Hanoi's closest 
allies in this country would have to do some good. 
I say let's take them up on it...but with a new twist. Students 
should write Hanoi. But they should do it at the most opportune 
time possible -now before the elections. 
From here, they should canvass Middle Class America with 
petitions saying something to the effect that we respectfully request 
that Hanoi improve the treatment of American prisoners. But, here's 
the rub. 
We do it for peace candidates. The whole effort should be 
extremely partisan to get doves and other liberal elements into 
Congress. 
How can John and Jane Middle Class America backlash against 
clean cut students who are circulating "tell it to Hanoi" petitions? 
At the same time that these are being circulated we distribute 
literature and campaign for the candidates who will' get at the root 
of the fact of these prisoners. 
. We are not only going after the immediate problem-prisoners of 
war, at the same time, we are going to the root of the problem ­
American involvement in Southeast Asia. 
This type of activity educates the voters about student's attitudes ~hows that students are willing to make a show of goodwill, and rna; JUSt counteract Spiro, John and Martha Inc. 
Obviously, if Hanoi would show it's bit of goodwill say on 
November I or so by releasing, at large, the names of some prisoners, 
the result could be best described as trading letters for votes. 
From there, John Mitchell and Spiro Agnew can take their incindiary, backlash-provoking, radiclib rhetoric and cram it into whichever orifice of their bodies they feel it would enter easiest. 
The point is to tell it to Hanoi when America is listening. 
******** 

lobbying at large: 
those people who oppose the Princeton Plan because students "would be used" are engaged in paternalistic dreaming. Let the students learn for themselves. 
Those who say the University should not become political should read Machiavelli who says that war is the extension of politics. From there, let them cut off all the University's ROTC programs, war research, etc. 
Those who claim such a move is arbitrary should look at our spring calendar where we have a spring break for no reason. At least here is _the possibility that the time will be used as a furthering of the education for those who get involved in the election process. _ See you at campaign headquarters. 
.­

······~··············· 
~~-~----­

Tuesday, September 29, 1970 711E OBSEiliiDl Page 5 
by llcey 
Homesickness 
Observer s.,~ate Phantom 
I suppose that it's reasonably safe to assume that a multitude of you studious beings are plagued by the old ailment of homesickness. This dreaded affliction is not reserved soley to the freshmen. The upperclassmen also suffer from this disease. The only difference is that the upperclassmen like to brag about having this "communicable disease," while the freshmen don't even know what one is. Knowing how you snivelling fools feel, I believe I ought to clue you in on a few of the known cures fc>~ your malady. 
One of the most common medicines is a sim1>le little thing that requires little or no intelligence, which should thrill the majority of you. Simply rip all of your name tags out of your wardrobe and then sew them in backwards. This bit of idiocy will frustrate you when the realization strikes, that you will have to tear all of them out again and sew them back in properly. This little exercise of appendage agility should take you anywhere from 2 weeks to 6 years, depending on the seriousness of your illness and 
your stitching ability. 
A more advanced cure for the more advanced sufferer is one of the old family 
favorites. All you do is go out and marry the first girl you•see. What could be easier? Since I enjoy this job, 1 won't tell you what could be easier. Anyway, now that you're married, you have someone to do your home cooking, type up your papers, and sew your nametags back into you clothes after you've torn them out. The only problem with this solution is that some guys read the cure a little too loosely."...the first girl that you see. ." Consequently, some nearsighted fellows have married female armadillos, girl-type groun1 sloths, and, in one strange ca~~. a female king penguin. Some guys just won't learn to read caretully. Everyone knows that a king penguin can't sew. 
For extra-quick relief, you can call the overseas operator and ask her to connect you with the piers in Lisbon, Portugal. When someone answers, you calmly inquire as to how the sardines are running. As soon as he begins to answer, that's your cue to hang up. The only drawback to this antidote is that it will cost you between $35 and $429.67, depending on whether you desire to know the quality of the blue crab meat, in comparison to prior years. 
For the super-intelligent homesick victim, there is a real cerebrum-cruncher. All you have to do is to count from 1 to 10 in Lithuanian. That might sound extremely simple, but just see how long it takes you to get a hold of an Elementary Lithuanian book. Once you find the text, it's all downhill. Of course, you run the risk of being nominated as a candidate for the booby hatch, for walking around in public and 
coon~g~ml~lOinW~an~,m~~q~~~dasa¢~o.
The last gasp is perhaps the best. Go home. See the fam. Have anything you want to eat. Go over to your HTH's house and mess around. The only stumbling block is that you most probably can't have girls in your room, or hootch on your breath. I guess that's what home is really all about. 
by Lefty Ruscllman 1970 Observer Culinary All-American Team 

L-------------------------------tuv.ffer testimony that Phil McKenna is not 
Are you already discouraged about the quality (or lack of such) of the food at the Huddle, the cafeteria, dining halls, etc? Are you on an acid trip -with your own excess stomach acid? Do you get brownies from home -· an use them for diamond utters? Is intravenous feeding looking more attractive to you with each passing day? C'mon now, it isn't the food as much as the atmosphere on campus which gets you down! You have an all-American city at your disposal, a cultural watershed calculated 
o stimulate your mind. It's full of goodies -if you know where to look for them ­which will make your digestive tract sing out, in four part harmony, no less. 
Eating American style is something which every NO man worth his Bromo should try, and our Observer resident gourmets (who eschewed Huddle burgers and sacrificed countless continental breakfasts) set forth recently to choose those places which best portrayed Americana at its hearty best. Here they are, the creme dela creme of River City; bon appetite to you all. 
ARCHIE'S BAR & GRILL (13467 Peptic Avenue). They have a big door handle about four feet above the welcome mat, and if you can open the door, they'll serve. Except when the ABC makes its quadrennial trip to Archies; then you'll be carded. No worry, though. Archie has 20/1000 vision and can't tell a 9 from a 6. One more thing -you must speak up loud enough to be served, for Archie's hard of hearing, too. 
BLACK AND BLUE AVENUE (100 North Mishmash Ave.). The ultimate in "status" in town; even the water costs $1.00 a glass and up. Don't even attempt to read the menu (which is written in algebra anyway), just slip the waiter a $50 tip and ask him to bring him "the usual." What the hell, you're there to impress people, not to fill your greedy belly. 
PIZZA SHACK 12 Uust one mile. off campus -the Purdue campus, that is). This is the only eatery endorsed by an Interhall Frisbee team. Once a m_onth, they order a batch of pies "to go", which are about ten times as unbreakable as the toughest plastic known to science. Whatever pies are left over at month's end are used to make 6-ply snow tires to fight the eternal Indiana winter. 
DREARY'S BREWERY (318 Slurry Boulevard). You've seen the Big "D" in town, perhaps you've even drunk some (probably when you had no beer and had to settle for Dreary's). When you're 21, you can take a free tour of the plant in town where the stuff is brewed. Watch how they use genuine water(?) from the St. Joe River, marvel as they use neither hops nor alcohol, and gape at the sump pump they hand you when you buy a keg of Big "D". The brew is cheap, too; you've probably heard the old expression "a beer tastes on on a Dreary's budget." Such extravagance! 
BURGER BARON (1864 Platinumwood Avenue). This chain of drive-ins was recently awarded the Sinclair Lewis Memorial Trophy for most original substitutes for-meat in their burgers. The competition was rough, as seventeen other chains laced their wares with everything from rat tails to mucilage. But the Baron, an old KP man from way back, outdid them all. (Rumor has it that he's slated to be next manager of the North Dining Hall). He seldom gets complaints from customers and uses his credo to explain it: Dead men tell no tales. 
Easy Wrfter CoHon Candy between 


Consenting Adults 
by Pete Petei'SOII 
I read with interest the article concerning the circus which appeared in Monday's
f 

Observer. I was struck by the force of its basic contention-that the circus is out o 
. h place in a world that has death and war and unwanted pregnancies. ~ot ~o mentton ~ e girl down the hall who uses drugs (Whether this means alchohol, rucotme or c~ffeu~e wasn't clear. Maybe it refered to Monosodium Glutamate and other preservatives m her food.) A seven year old could appreciate a circus, but not someone at Notre Dame-Saint Mary's, ie. "childhood's end." Heavy place, childhood's end. The beginning urges of adolescence are hard on us all. "How many seven year olds want to run away and join the circus?" our reporter asks. I can only guess at the number of people who want to run away and join the circus; I would say nearly everyone who is trying to keep a sense of perspective in a world where a rah-rah little football college in Indiana is seen as "childhood's end" when it is obviously childhood's finest hour, (the happiest years of your life, and don't knock it until you're out on your own trying to feed your kids and put them through four years of blissful isolation). Anyone trying to maintain in a world of doom-wailing prophets who must find cause for deep concern in a place where the deepest thing on campus is the library reflecting pool (and that's nearly always empty.) But don't worry. The circus is dying. In another fifty years, even if we haven't killed 
. . . . bl' t' off each other, we certainly will pave killed off anythmg remotely resem mg a iger, an eleph~nt...ur a clown. Un_til then it is my contention that death, war, and unwanted pregnancies are out ot place m a worlCI tnat nas Circuses. 
~~---------------------------------~ 



Letters to Uncle Bass 
Dear Sir: 

I would like to object to the article which appeared Monday which tabbed John Barkett as a prospective candidate [or SBP next March. It is not that I dislike John, or object to the fact that he may be running next spring. I do think it is a bit early to start naming people, since this year's government has barely been given the chance to get off the ground, but that is not my purpose here. 
What I must object to is the author's not soveiled attack on Phil McKenna. As a former co-worker, and as a friend, I can 
a pseudo anything. Many. things Phil might have been, but he was not, and is wJt artificial in any way. 
What your correspondent saw as "pseudo-philosophy" was, in fact, a sincere_ concern about the quality of the Notre Dame experience, the goals of the University and Student Government, and the means which adminstration and students used to achieve those goals. I did not always agree with Phil, but I never questioned his sincerity or his dedication to principle. 
The McKenna admininstration was different than any of its predecessors-­and will probably be different than any that follow--and because it was different, it was misunderstood. Out of that misunderstanding came criticism which began almost as soon as he took office, and continued until the day he stepped aside. 
McKenna said in his campaign certain things which all candidates say. The biggest difference was that he lived up to them. He did what he said he was going to do, to the surprise of even some o[us who worked with him. 
Phil's administration was much like the man himself-quiet and thoughtful Rossie's term was characterized by a great activity, but Phil's was a more subdued year. Not that many things weren't accomplished-the establishment of black 
concentrations, the new tighter budgeting system, the increased commitment to minority recruiting, the establishment of a strong community relations program under Student Government, and the first real steps towara co-eaucanon-a study to see what it will entail to reach that goal-were all promised in McKenna's 
platform, and all these promises were delivered upon. StiU, it was a relatively quiet year. It 
took over 40 pages for McKenna to write his platform, and would take nearly that long to describe all [o what was done last year both to the University and to those of us who worked with Phil. For Phil's real contribution was in the way he strove to change attitudes, to make people 
· question where they were going and how they were going to get there. If that sense of questioning never got beyond Morrissey Hall and LaFortune, it is as much the fault of we who worked in Student Government as of McKenna himself. 
I do not want to make this a "Why we should apologize to Phil McKenna because he is such a great guy" letter. So, rather than continue in the vein I've been in, I will conclude very simply. Phil McKenna laid the groundwork for much of the change which we shall see at this University in the next five years, and shook a lot of people out of their previous molds. J am proud to be Phil McKenna's friend, and I am sorry that other people in this University did not get to know him as I did. But most of all, I am distressed that this misunderstanding has led to yet another public maligning of Phil McKenna and I hope I have cleared up some o[it. 
Steve Novak 
No one in his right mind would deny McKenna's sincerity. The contention of the "correspondent" wasn't that 
McKenna UiCin · t want to be _a philosopher, or that he didn't think he was a philosopher, but that he thought he was a philosopher and really wasn't. ONe doesn't become a philosopher by constantly suffering the existential dread. One doesn't become a philosopher by jumping up and down every time one runs across injustice. One doesn't become a philosopher by smoking a lot of cigarettes every time a crisis arises, or by crying. One doesn't become a philosopher by "walking naked at the beginning of the road." Somewhere along the line Mr. McKenna mistook Dionysius for Diognes. He didn't travel any road. He tripped. Right at the beginning. 
-Uncle Bass 
Page 6 7111!. OBSERfJE/t Tuesday, September 29, 1970 



Nixon visits Pope-Learns of Nasser's Death 
Aboard the USS Saratoga (UPI) -received Italy's warmest wel­
Nixon flew here by helicopter Arriving here from a wild cheered by thousands as he 
President Nixon called for come for any American Presi­after discussing with Pope Paul emerged from the Vatican. He
sendoff by an estimated 10,000
calm in the Middle East last dent since Dwight Eisenhower in VI in the Vatican the dangers of cheering Romans, who stamped­stood on top of his limousine at night and cancelled a show of 1959. a new outbreak of bloodshed in 
ed Nixon when he left his car to one point when tumultuous Ameri<;an naval power in the Pat Nixon n:mained behind in the Mideast. That was before shake their hands, Nixon addres­crowds pressed through police
Mediterranean out of respect for Rome when ht:r husband left to they learned of Nasser's death. lines to reach him. 
sed the sailors and officers of theEgypt's fallen leader. review a scheduied American 
But when he learned of Nas­Saratoga. It was the warmest receptionPresident Nasser's death stole show of force by the 6th Fleet ser's death, he cancelled the air He told them their presence given him -or any American some of the purpose from in the Mediterranean where 
and sea maneuvers which had had been an indispensable factor President -since Dwight D. 
Nixon's European tour. He had Russia is challenging U.S. domi­been scheduled for Tuesday to in settling Jordan's war with Eisenhower visited Rome in planned to ask the presidents of nance. But Nasser's death imme­
demonstrate American determi­Arab guerrillas on her territory. 1959. Spain and Yugoslavia to use diately recast the tone of nation not to be squeezed out of In Rome, Pope Paul VI told So many people jammed into 
their friendship with Nasser to Nixon's five nation visit. 
the Mediterranean by the chal­Nixon he feared a "vast and the broad · Via Della Concilia­try to get peace talks moving "The tragic loss requires that lenge of an expanding Soviet fearful conflagration" unless zione the President was forced again at the United Nations. all nations and particularly those flotilla. diplomats brought about an ac­to delay his scheduled departure Nixon reCeived word of Nas­in the Middle East calm passions, The traveling White House an­cord between Arabs and Israel by helicopter for his visit to the ser's heart attack shortly after reach for mutual understanding nounced that a representative of and its neighbors. U.S. 6th Fleet.
his arrival by helicopter from and build lasting peace," the Police said 10,000 persons
the U.S. government would be
Rome where he .had a lengthy President said in a statement lining the streets cheered Nixon, 
sent to Nasser's funeral. The
meeting with Pope Paul VI, un­issued aboard this carrier in the ROME (UPI) -President in sharp contrast to the indiffer­
United States does not have dip­
expectedly visited 26 freed Mediterranean off the coast of Nixon personally greeted freed ent reception earlier when he
lomatic relations with Egypt,
American airliner hostages and Naples. American hostages yesterday, traveled in a 13 car motorcade
making it unlikely that Nixon 
visited with Pope Paul VI and to the Vatican. But several leaf­would attend. 
received a tumultous acclaim lets were scattered along the
Nixon's call for calm in the
SMC sex program •• 
from thousands of Romans as he route earlier denouncing Nixon
Mideast reflected fears expressed 
ended his official visit to Italy. 
and U.S. foreign policy. 

around the world that the loss of 
Nixon interrupted his official In a communique, the Vatican 
Nasser's leadership -a modera­
schedule to greet 26 surprised said Nixon and the Pope talked

response runs high 
ting force despite his fiery rhe­
hostages, telling them that a about "the conflicts which are
toric -would bring new erup-· 
combination of U.S. power and 
by Ann Therese IJarin Cook, a physician from Memo­affecting some regions of the
tions between the Arabs and 
restraint led to their liberty. 
Yesterday afternoon St. rial Hospital, South Bend, and Israelis. world."
"I think I feel as happy as you
Mary's health committee met to Mrs. Ann Thatcher, president of It said "particular reference
"The world has lost an out­
do," said Nixon, beaming as the 
formulate a sex education pilot South Bend's chapter of Planned standing leader who tirelessly was made to the situation in the 
passengers, who had flown in an
Parenthood, will also speak. Middle East, which risks dis­
prozram. Prompted by an over­and devotedly served the causes hour earlier from Nicosia,
After the panel, students will appointing the hopes aroused by 
whelming response favoring the of his country and the Arab Cyprus, crowded around him at
organize into smaller groups the Arab-Israeli ceasefire and by
program, they have scheduled a world," Nixon said. He sent A­Rome International Airport. 
with a panelis1t as moderator to

sex education panel discussion as merica's sympathies to Nasser's the prospect of possible negotia­
Then after a lengthy meeting discuss the presentation. 
their first project. widow and children tions.
with the Pope, Nixon was
"Since it is a pilot program, cation program covering every­attendance will be restricted to thing from venereal disease to "This comprehensive sex edu­
SMC student advisers and ND dating is tentatively scheduled to 
undergraduate resident assist­

Broad military aid proposed for Israel
ants," stated Miss Eglet. in Carroll Auditorium," accord­With the $100 budget which ing to Kathy Eglet, program was allocated in the SMC stu­WASHINGTON (UPI) A mill­requirement that only ground come later this week. 
director. dent governm1~nt fund for this tilly aid proposal for Israel-a!-· weapons which are to be de­Members of the Senate Fo­As · panelists, she has invited committee, Miss Eglet said that ready one of the most generous ployed by Israel in the physical reign Relations Committee had Drs; William Giantoruo (ND soci­she is planning to have some . arms transfer measures ever writ­proximity to airfields may be objected to the arms transfer 
ology), Robert Lappin (SMC type of program for the student ten by Congress-was broadened acquired by Israel under the provision when the Senate ap­psychology), and Harold Weiss body if the pilot proves success­Monday to include ground wea­authority of this section." proved it last month, contending begin October 13th at 6:15p.m. 
(SMC theology). Dr. Gordon ful. 


WE CAN DO IT '• 
Handle your problems, Complaints and question~; that is 
C•l• 2.aPM r:abinet office the student govt. 
7638
ombudsmen 


~..., """'="'l"""""i''*,.,...,.,.,.,.,_'';&&:y:.:.•.•.:,·-:-:-············································································­
t:=~.m!~m-~;:;;;;m.~§..l§.!>..s.s:.:.:.!.:oSS::;tldii5!\IS~~---·················································=·:·:·:·:·=·=·=·········'·····················~


I homecoming '70 I
.•.. .. .•.. communication between faculty
Mr. Richard D. Willemin, 
==~ lottery =~= members to whom students
Director of the Notre Dame
I I 
might go for assistance inPlacement Bureau announced an

~: Oct.. Judging Hall Displays; *~ choosing their careers and the
X ~ Open House Wednesday and Placement Bureau. 
:::: $250 in Pri:z:es ~~ Thursday of this week from 2 to
~~l Pep Rally at J:OO Sign up for lottery for motel ~1l If the Open House planned
5 p.m. for University officers,
··•· rooms and football tickets ..... for this week meets with favor­
heads of departments, college
:::: "Blackout" dance with :::~ 
.. tonight, 6:30-9:30 in the .. able results, Willemin said that
deans and members of the Stu­
:::: The Neighborhood :~ 
the program will be repeated:::: Fiesta· Lounge. Dance bids ~1 dent Life Council. The purpose next week for the benefit of the1:1: 9:30 on ACC Concourse sold before lottery sign-ups ~ of the Open House is to increase students.

:::: (striped tie dance) ~ 
:?-for $8.00. ::~: 
ND M.en Treat yourself to hairstyling
!~if Oct. 10 Army Game Pick up bids and buy ~ 
with latest and newest styles for the co11ege
:~:i Concert with JOHNNY RIVERS AND motel rooms and football ~;; 
guy. Specializing in Jong hair.
~:1: SHA·NA-NA tickets, Thursday, :1:1 
For appointment cal1 2340811
::1:i October 1. l~: 
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES MONDAYS 
Continental Hair Stylin 

I Oct. II FreeFolk·~~::·~==ur Gl Buttons" I AND TUESDAYS 306 Sherland Building South Bend 
Miss Treba and the Baron to serve you. Studied under ·oavid Hansen of Chicago, foremost hair stylist for men.


I " f h " ~ 
OPEN MON. THRU SAT.
l.:===;=:=;=:=====::::;;=======================================================?.=~~==~~=;~:i::~==~=====;=~=;:2::Y==§=!;:=:~,..t.~:====:========:~===::======::::::::=====================~=============J1 
The measure thus permits the it was an end run around the Senate and House negotiators, 
pons as well as aircraft. 

President to sell Israel any quan­committee's jurisdiction over mi­in a report on the $19.9 billion tity of virtually any non-nuclear litary aid and arms sales to fo­military procurement bill, said weapon on the most favorable reign governments. 
possible credit terms without Chairman J. William Ful­that measure would cover any ceiling costs. Nuclear wea­bright, D. Ark., charged that the"ground weapons, such as mis-pons presumably would be ex­provision ran counter to thesiles, tank,s howitzers, armored cluded because of the terms of trend in Congress during recentpersonnel carriers, ordnance, etc. 
the nonproliferation treaty, years to place tighter and tighteras well as aircraft." 
which the United States has restrictions on overseas militaryThe provision, written by Sen. 
signed, as well as the terms of sales and to play a greater role in Henry M. Jackson, D. Wash., 
the U.S. Atomic Energy Act. overseeing foreign policy. 
authorizes President Nixon to 

The only limitation imposed
transfer to Israel aircraft or­Fulbright and others who'equipment appropriate to. . in the bill itself is a Sept. 30, have argued for limits on U.S.

1972, expiration date added by
.protect ~uch aircraft" he be-intervention overseas contend

the conferees to provide the
lieves necessary to counter that arms transfers frequently"past, present or future" Soviet "customary periodic spending lead to other forms of U.S.

authorication surveillance by
military aid to the Arab states. 
involvement, first with tech­Congress."

The conferees said it was their nicians to train foreigners to
The procurement measure has
intention that the language "not operate the weapons then with
already passed both Houses in
be narrowly interpreted by the troops to protect the American
differing forms. Routine final
executive branch as imposing a advisors.
action on the compromise could 


Tuesday, September 29, 1970 
Page 7
THE OBJZRV!'R. 




Alumni meet with Krashna 
by Joe Griffin  
The Board of Directors of the  
Notre Dame Alumni Association  
met over the past weekend and  
held  discussions  with  members  
of the university administration  
and SBP Dave Krashna.  
The  Alumni Judiciary  Board  
met  with  Fr.  James C.  Riehle,  
Dean of Students; the  Student  
Affairs Committee met with Frs.  
Thomas E. Blantz and James L  
Shilts, Vice-president and  Asst.  
lla AI . me umm concerned over  A . f .d ssocta ton, sat student drug use  t da that yes er Y on campWi.  the  board  was  V.P. for Religion  Student Affairs; the Committee met with  

Homecoming events outlined 
Student Union Social Com­dance has been dubbed "striped mission listings of Homecoming tie" but merely refers to semi­events are as follows. formal. This year the band fea­Firday Oct. 9th tured for the dance is THE 7 p.m. Stepan Center-Pep NEIGHBORHOOD best known Rally. for their hit single Big Yellow 
9:30 p.m.-1 a.m. Homecom­Taxi. There are 950 dance bids ing dance to be held on the ACC available at $8.00 a piece. The concourse. The dance is entitled bids will not be awarded by "Blackout" and is to resemble lottery as done in years past, but an underground cabaret from on ftrst come basis. Dance bids 
W.W. II days. The attire for the will be on sale Tuesday, Sept.
Fr. Mcelrath ­
(Continued from page 4) 
"He gave people more of a realization that this is their college. They had a part in St, Mary's from the day they walked on this campus -including parents. That will never die." 
Dr. Bambanek said that the new head of SMC should have "vision as an academician" and should be able to see "where St. Mary's as an academic 
· institution should be moving and changing." 
He added administrative ability as a criterion for selection but observed that, although St. Mary's is a business, the product -education -is intangible. 
Dr. Richard Hutcheson, chairman of the SMC philosophy department, found one of Fr. McGrath's greatest contributions to be his efforts to improve the faculty and faculty salaries. 
Dr. Hutcheson commented that SMC needs a president soon "in these critical times." He said that the new president should be a "legitimate scholar in a legitimate academic field with a variety of academic experiences and an acquain­tance with a variety of academic institutions." 
He added "presence and poise" to the list of qualifications to aid the new president in dealing with Notre Dame, alumni and other outside organizations. 
Dr. Bruno Schlesinger, humanistic studies chair­man and a member of the presidential search committee, feels that Fr. McGrath had little time in which to make many changes at St. Mary's. "His second year was overshadowed by what we know now to be grave illness." 
In Dr.. Schlesinger's opinion, Fr. McGrath was "less at home in academic matters" and his training as a lawyer was helpful to him in his efforts to improve the overall structure of the college in the form of community government. 
"He followed the general course of engaging many avenues of cooperation (with Notre Dame) while retaining overall independence." 
Dr. Schlesinger said that the new president should be a man of "proven administrative ability. ..clearly a man of strong academic background.. .with an understanding of students, faculty and the world of books." He added the desirability of a charismatic quality that would make the new college head "more than a functionary, more than an official. 
"It's a lot to be asked." He observed that Fr. McGrath "restored con­fidence in the college at a difficult period" and 
"realized that students, faculty and administration should be gathered" to govern the college to­gether. 
lf=::'«:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~'8~:::~:;s~~~===::::::::::::~:::::::::::::!::::::!!::::::::::::::::t 
i:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::~.~.~.;.:.~.~.~.~.=.!:!~:~:!:!~!~.:.;,;.:.?-~-7-~~!i~~=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::i 
~  Volunteer Services Night  ~  
~  I  
:~  IIIC Dlnl... H•l  ~~  
II  •I  
I ~i  Wedl••-, Sept.IO 7-a lMDPII  *l i  

29th in the Fiesta Lounge, 3rd floor La Fortune from 6:30 p.m.-9:30p.m. 
All bid holders are eligible to enter the lottery for Army foot­ball tickets and motel rooms. Some 400 plus football tickets· 
and  another  60  motel  rooms  
have  been  allotted for student  
use.  Lottery  sales  for  those  

"lucky winners" will be distri­buted on Thursday, Oct l. All payments for bids, football tickets and motel rooms must be made by check only. 
Saturday is the Army-ND game and a concert that evening. 
The Homecoming concert will be Johnny Rivers and Sha Na Na at the ACC. 


One college does 111ore than broaaen horizons. It sails to the111, and beyond. 
Now there's a way for you to know the world around you first-hand. A way to see the things you've read about. and study as you go. The way is a college that uses the Parthenon as a classroom for 
a lecture on Greece. and illustrates Hong Kong's floating societies with a ride on a harbor sampan. 
Chapman College's World Campus Afloat enrolls two groups of 500 students every year and opens up the world for them. Your campus is the s. s. Ryndam. equipped with modern educational facilities and a fine faculty. You have a complete study curriculum as you go. And earn a fully­accredited semester while at sea. 
Chapman College is now accepting enrollments for Spring 
......................................................................
. 

• 11'1111'11 WORLD CAMPUS AFLOATW! Director of Student Selection Services ~ Chapman College, Orange, Calif. 92666 
Please send-your catalog and any oJher material I need to have . 
•
• 

. 
1970-71 SCHOOL INFORMATION 
• 
Mr. 

• 
Miss 

• 
Mrs.


• 

Last Name First Initial
•
. 

• Name of School 
. 
• 

Campus Address Street
. 
~ 

City State Zip Campus Phone ( 
• Area Code Year In School Approx. GPA on 4.0 Scale
...................................................................... 
Fr. William A. Toohey, Director of Campus Ministry; and the Admissions Committee met with Dr: Peter Grande, Director of Admissions. Many of the admin­istrators are new, and James Cooney, secretary of the board said, "The board was enthusias­
· tic of the grasp these people had of their positions and their pro­grams." 
On Friday the board met with David Krashna and discussed his ideas. Cooney stated that the 
board was leased with the er-
t p p f 
~l~hna~.;:E~t~~~ms::¥:ins~:~ 
period' with Krashna in which the topics ranged from drugs on campus to social life and co­education. 
Regarding coeducation, Cooney said that he felt that the 
·board would be in favor of continuing the present program as far as was feasible in the eyes of the administrators of both colleges. He also said he had been instructed to develop a better relationship with the SMC Alumnae Board on matters of mutual concern. 
The Executive Committee of the board also selected the re­ceipt of this year's Sorin Award, to be announced at a later date. 
Cooney stated that the major concern of the board was the use . of drugs on campus. Cooney said_ that they are concerned because after the student has been given a great deal of personal responsi­bility, he has become ego-centric and has not developed a concern for his fellow student. The board said that they could not under­stand the reluctance of the stu­dent to leave his own sphere to turn in offenders. 
The board also heard Fr. James T. Burtchaell, University Provost, speak on continuing education and Fr. Thomas E. Chambers, Director of Student Housing, speak on the function of the residence hall in the total picture of university life, said Cooney. 
He also said that since 40% of the 44,000 alumni which the board governs had graduated since 1960 and 60% since 1950, the Executive Committee enter­tained a motion to include younger men in the board. A decision will be given in January, and Cooney said it had a "good chance" of passing. 
The Board of Directors is the governing body of the Alumni Association, ~ 
\Junior League Thri t op 
over  30,000  items  new  and  
used  furniture,  clothing,  
houseward~ etc.  

-STE AN"'c~E N""T""E-..R
..... 
THURS: OCT. 1 \FRI._OCT. 2. 9 A.M. -6:3_!) P.M. 9T12 (noon! 

HOME INFORMATION 
Home Address Street 
City State Zip Home Phone ( Area Code Until__info should be sent to campus 0 home 0 
approx. date . I am interested In 0 Fall Spring 0 19__ 0 I would like to talk to a representative of WORLD 
CAMPUS AFLOAT WCA·g • 
and Fall '71 semesters. Spring 
semesters circle the world from 
Los Angeles. stopping in Asia and Africa and ending in New York. 
Fall semesters depart New York for port stops in Europe. Africa and Latin America. ending in Los Angeles. , 
The world is there. The way to show it to inquiring minds is there. And financial aid programs are there. too. Send for our catalog with the coupon below. 
s. s. Ryndam is of Netherlands registry. 
i I 
I 
t 
' 

Page8 THB OBSERIIM 





Injury ends Bill Etter's career 

has had for some time, a Notre owner of one impressive Notre 
-.-· -~ . 
'·.1:1.

SOUTH BEND' Ind. . (UPI) Dame spolesman said. Dame record. His 10.7 yard per 
Bill Etter, Notre Dame's No. 2 carry last season is the high mark quarterback has resigned from 
in Irish annals. 
" Bill was giYen extensive teststhe football team and given up in the past two weeks and the 

The junior signal caller was·

his football career on the advice 
resultsindicate that he should 
also a standout performer at
physicians, coach Ara

of team give up football or any other 
Lewis and Clark High School

Parseghian said Monday. 
contact sport," Parseghian said. 
with present Notre Dame team­
"The doctors anticipate no pro­

mate· BobMinnix. Both made ,.. ~-
Etter, a junior from Spokane, blems but Bill will drop out of 
several high schodl All-American 

Wash., was hospitalized two school until January and stay units.
weeks ago with severe head with his brother in Arizona." aches. Doctors indicated a con­
Besides playing football Etter

tact sport could develop a head Etter, although he played in 
also won campus-wide fame for

injury from the condition Etter 
only one varsity season, is the his skill in the boxing ring. Two years ago he was campus champ
1 

Jim Donaldson·=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~a=:.s ~;~~:1 ~~~~~~ ~~~~!:.. 
• ter he captured top honors in the heavyweight class. 
This setback poses a big prob­lem for Parseghian. Etter was the only experienced quarterback on the squad besides Joe Theisman. 


Sport Shorts 
Revenge 
Steenberge, from Erie, Penn­sylvania, has played in both Irish Purdue kicks off in the misty rain 

victories this season. He does n"t

and the Irish line opens hole after hole, 
have Etter's running abilitY 

bu·t Theismann slips at the Purdue four 
but he is a better passer.'· ~~JI.:~~]Mil;
and ND settles for a field goal. 
Etter will be replaced at the Creaney hauls in a 55-yard bomb; No. 2 signal calling slot by The Irish are knocking at the door; sophomore Pat Steenberge. 
Bill Etter 
A pass to Barz, two Gulyas runs, and Denny Allan goes in for the score. 
Theismann and Gatewood begin to clic:k; They combine for a pair of scores; 

Ruggers win over Purdue 
After 30 minutes of play it's up on the board: The Notre Dame Rugby Club ball in the end zone for three
Purdue 0, Irish 24. 
crushed the Boilermaker "B"opened their 1970 fall season more points. Mark "Savage" squad 22-0. Tim Standring, JoeSaturday morning behind Stepan Rubinelli also scored a try in theThe third quarter brings no reprieve DeLois, Doug Smege, PeteCenter with a victory over Pur­second half to finish the scoring. 

to the battered Purdue eleven; Frantz, John Greving, and Phildue 9-5. The Irish ruggers were Although the Irish ruggersTheismann connects to Gatewood again 
Kalandra all contributed to the and the Irish add another seven. in command the entire game were not especially sharp on Irish scoring in the preliminarywhich turned into a defense Saturday, they displayed the 
game.

struggle due to the pouring rain. potential for an undefeated
Hempel boots a field goal; The Rugby club (both A and Herby Giorgio scored a try in season-a goal which seems very
Dewan runs for a score; B squads) travels to East Lansing
the first half to give the Irish the reasonable considering that the
and now Notre Dame has 41 this Saturday to play Michigan
lead. In the second half senior Irish have 12 returning starters.
but the fans clamor for more. 
State.

cliarley-Blum alertly-feiion t~e 11J,e Notre Dame "B" team Larry Parker ends it all displaying his breakaway speed; The goal is 63 yards away 
Boilers nip Irish boofers 
but Larry runs for a 48-0 lead. 
Although the Purdue football fought back to tie the score at The Boilermakers moved out Yes, Ara promised us a win, squad was trounced Saturday 1-1 however before the quarter to a 4-2 advantage in the second afternoon by the Fighting Irish, ended. half and although Tom Shriver
The Boilermakers would be beat. Three years of frustration are forgotten, the Boilermaker soccer team had The Hanlon-Schweitzer com­netted a short shot to bring the Ah, revenge is sweet. better results Saturday morning, bination put the Irish back on Irish to within a goal, 4-3, in the topping the Notre Dame hooters top in the second quarter as they final quarter, Notre Dame was
Notre Dame's 48-0 thrashing of Purdue Saturday was the most 4-3 in a game played in a driving reversed roles, Hanlon knocking unable to come up with theone-sided victory in the history of the series. 
rain behind Stepan Center. in a shot by Schweitzer that had equalizer.
The Irish appear to be moving into high gear and, if the South The Boilermakers broke a 2-2 caromed off the Purdue net­The Irish hooters are in actionRiver Roadrunner stays healthy, will pile up a bundle of points this halftime deadlock by tallying minder. Once again, Purdue ral­again this weekend, traveling to season. 
single goals in the third and lied and tied the score 2-2 after Milwaukee saturday to oppose
Allan, Gulyas, Barz, Minnix, and Parker rambled through gaping 
fourth quarters to hand the Irish 40 minutes of play. Marquette.holes opened by the now solid offensive line. 
their first setback of the season. 

When the giOund game falters, the-Heisman, I mean Theismann, 
The Notre Dame soccer club to Gatewood combination can open up the defense. 
now has a 1-1-1 record. 

Gatewood put on a tremendous show Saturday, grabbing 12 
The Irish jumped into an early 

MAJOR LEAGUES 
passes good for three touchdowns. His last touchdown, where he 
lead Saturday as Jim Schweitzer shook off three tacklers to score, symbolized the game. Gatewood 
drove a rebound of a Chris Han­

NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE
trotted to the bench all smiles while the Purdue defenders, including 
lon shot past the Purdue goal­the renowned Veno Paraskevas, lay in the mud. keeper midway through the first w Pet. East
East L GB w L Pet. GB 
· theismann was equally impressive, completing 16 of 24 passes for quarter. The Boilermakers xPittsburgh 87 72 .547 B11ltimore 104 54 .658 276 yards. Chicago 82 76 .519 4Y:. New York 92 68 .575 13 Other than the weather, I was disappointed by only one thing this Closed circuit New York 81 77 .513 5Y:. Boston 
86 74 .538 19 weekend -the Golden Girl has a pot belly. St. Louis 75 84 .472 12 Detroit 77 82 .484 27Y:. It would appear that Stepan Center has most satisfactorily Philadelphia 72 86 .456 14Y:. Cleveland 75 84 .472 29Y:. replaced the fieldhouse as the site for football rallies. Although TV in Convo Montreal 71 88 .447 16 Washington 70 88 .443 34 lacking in tradition, Stepan was also lacking the choking dust of the If you haven't been lucky West fieldhouse. Most importantly, none of the Notre Dame spirit was enough to get a ticket for the xCincinnati 101 59 .631 West 
Minnesota 95 63 .601

lost in the move to Stepan. It was a great rally. Michigan State game perhaps the San Fran. 86 72 .544 14 
Oakland 87 72 .547 BY:.

Since the Irish seem bent on revenging themselves on their Athletic and Convocation Center Los Angeles 85 73 .538 15 
California 82 .519
76 13

traditional rivals it should be noted that Notre· Dame has not won a may hold an answer to your Houston 75 83 .475 25 Kansas City 64 94 
.405 31

.469 26
game in East Lansing since 1949 when they beat the Spartans 34-21 problems. This game will be car­Atlanta 75 85 Milwaukee 64 
95 .401 31Y:.

San Diego 62 97 .390 38Y:.
enroute to a 10-0 record and the national championship. ried on a closed circuit telecast Chicago 56 102 .354 39 The last time the Irish beat Purdue, they won th•e national title. If back to Notre Dame. The Convo 
Chicago at New York
the Irish can ·win Saturday they will have duplicated a feat last will house this telecast in the San Houston Chicago at California
Francisco at 
accomplished by a national championship team. Ar·e those omens, or Arena section of the building Kansas City at Minnesota just a quirk of statistics? this Saturday afternoon at 2:30 
In the play-for-pay world of sports, the Bears won their second in p.m. a row l will ·-wonders never cease?) over the Eagles in one of the Prices for this special telecast worst pro games I've seen in a long time. are $4 and $2. However students 
The Pirates will be playing the Big Red Machine next weekend in will be admitted for half price the National League playoffs while the Orioles and Twins square off upon presentation of an ID card. in the junior circuit. I'll take Baltimore in the Am1~rican League but The lower arena seats cost $4 rather than risk the wrath of sports editor Terry "Bucca" Shields, and upper arena sells for $2 (i.e. I'll bypass a selection in the National League. $2 and $1 for students). 








