

Vol. V No.54. Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Communi(J' December 2, 1970 
Record Co-Op asked to disband 
by Greg Rowinski explicit undercutting of Book­tion, approximately $50 per ask enough questions". cording to Fr. Shilts, that the store prices, and the fact that year, would not be adequately Meanwhile, the SU was re­store is already out of its sphere The Record Co-Op has been the Student Union acted while a replaced by the savings that searching the idea of a Co-Op on and shouldn't have been started 
asked to discontinue its service similar proposal was tabled by recordbuying students would ac­a larger scale. The SU, according in the first place. 
in the Student Center. A letter the Student Union Board. crue. All the Bookstore's busi­to Bob Pohl, decided that it was The SU has placed the contro­
from Fr. James Shilts, Asst. Vice Fr. Shilts contended that the ness, he added, does not come a good idea and offered Mateja a versy before the SLC, hoping to 
President of Student Affairs, and SU has blatantly advertised the from the students, and what central location, in the Ticket gain approval for the "principle" 
Fr. Jerome Wilson, Vice Presi­Co-Op's underpricing. He felt doesn't is "gravy" for the stu­Office in the Center, with SU of the change. Pohl indicated 
dent of Business Affairs listed that the money that the Book­dents. The markups of the Book­publicity, and other advantages. that the SU intended to keep it 
the reasons for the request; its store saves the student in tui-store, especially on textbooks, When the Co-op moves, the open until the SLC decides. Be­are to cover overhead costs, ac­Vice President felt that this en­sides the principle that the SU cording to Fr. Shilts. tailed more than just a geo­has the right to run such fran­Fr. Shilts added that he felt graphic change. Fr. Blantz asked chises, Pohl argued, the SU feels that the SU had put the Admin­that it be moved back to Lyons. that the Co-Op at the Center "is istration in an uneviable posi­The SU, according to Pohl, better than at Lyons". "Records tion, in acting while the SU felt that it had the right to won't hurt the Bookstore," he Board had the proposal tabied maintain its location. Thus, the added, saying that the Adminis­because of difficulties it saw. store would be more accessible tration is "afraid of the Co-Op 
The Co-Op was the brainchild to the students, the facilities getting into areas that might." of John Mateja. He gained ap­would be expanded, and other This is one of the worries, admit­proval from Fr. Shilts to open a similar services could be added ted Fr. Shilts, and it will be the record shop in Lyons Hall. Fr. in the future. student who will suffer if the Shilts admitted that he "didn't The Vice Presidents felt, ac-Co-Op continues. 
Student Senate ommends Wed. voting procedure 
The Election Committee con­agreed with Giuffrida. He felt by Dave McCarthy vened yesterday and decided that centralizing the polls in the that the referendum would be Student Center was not a
An ammendment to the Sen­

held on Wednesday, December "sneaky ploy" to insure failure 
ate Election Committee recom­
9. of the referendum. He thought
mendation that would allow ref­
Don Mooney, an off campus that keeping the polls open all
erendum voting for the proposed 
Senator, proposed voting be held day long (9 a.m.-7 p.m.) would 
New Constitution to take place 
in the dorms rather than in a allow all students a good chance 
in the halls rather than exclu­
centralized polling place in to vote. 
sively in the Student Center was 
LaFortune Center. "It is pro­The vote to ammend the Elec­
the main business completed in 
bably the best way to do it," he tion Committee Recommenda­
last night's short Senate meeting. 
said. tion to hold voting only in Mooney argued that people LaFortune ended in a 13-13 tie. would be busy studying for ex­Senate Chairman Dave Krashria
Soph cars reviewed by SLC 
ams and that a majority of stu­broke the tie; he favored moving dents would not be "too en­the election into the dorms. He
problems resulting from the

by !lJn Ruane Hall Life Board to review hall 
thused about it (ie. voting for noted that students in out lying
addition of several hundred cars. 

life. This project was recently
Progress reports by three com­the New Constitution." halls (eg. Carroll and Moreau)
Fr. Miceli said the three man 

completed.
mittees of the Student Life Sorin Senator Chuck Ryan "may never come over'' on elec­
committee appointed by SLC 
2). Research and establish

Council were presented at a Chairman William F. Eagan was also favored designating the halls tion day. And he stressed that
opinions and "very big ideas" 
to

meeting of the general body of the "tentative opinion" that as polling places. }le felt "an care will have to be taken
about the basic facts of hall life. 
insure an "efficient" election.

Monday, November 23. Reports Sophomores should have cars if honest and capable " election
Among these facts Fr. Shilts 
were submitted by the Steering, could be run in that manner. A motion proposed by Sena­
the space is available. He empha­

suggested a study of the judicial 
tors Flavin, Treanor, and

Hall Life and Sophomore Cars sized that this is a "tentative Stay Senator Fred Giuffrida
boards as to how they can ben­
committees. opposed moving the polls out of Mooney raising the activities fee
opinion" and the final answer 

efit the halls, a study of the
Sophomore Cars Committee rests on the vote received by the LaFortune. He reasoned that to $16 and establishing both a 
performance and effectiveness of
Chairman Prof. Eugene W. final resolution. control of the voting would be Quality of Life fund and a 
rector assistants, research cen­
Henry reported that his com­The general task of the Hall taken from the Election Com­Quality of Life Committee was 
tered about theft and vulgarity
mittee met November 19 to plan referred for study to the Senate
Life Committee was outlined mittee if this was done. 
on campus and another look at
research for the single resolution. next by itschairman1 Rev. James (Continued on page 6)
the University's policy of alco­
regarding the feasibility of Soph­L. Shilts, C.S.C. He said the 

holic beverages. 
omore cars on campus to be body must make an effort to Constitution referendum
presented to the SLC before the discuss the remarks and answer 3). Recomend improvements 
end of the semester. in the parietal system after a
the questions posed by Board of 

Student representative Dick Trustees Chairman Edmund A. study of the present rationale 
faces vote next Wednesday
Tarrier was assigned to contact Stephan in a letter to the SLC and enforcement procedures. the Sophomore calss for its last spring. 4). Emphasize the role of rec­
rationale while faculty represen­Fr. Shilts became more 

tors and their staffs in encour­
by Kevin McGill
aging student leadership.
tative Rev. Matthew M. Miceli, specific as he listed some of the 

The Steering Committee re­Within three or four days Stu­
C.S.C. was given the responsi­things his committee has done 

port was given by student repre­dent Government will begin
bility to investigate the various and would like to do. 

sentative Tom Shoaf. campaigning for next Wed­
security, space and financial 1). The establishemnt of a 

nesday's referendum on the con­
stitution according to Student 
Body Vice-President Mark Win­
Theatre faces threat of obscenity shutdown 
ings. The referen<;lum, if passed, by Milton Jones attorney Leonard Campanelli will do away with the present
city of Mishawaka at the hear­declined what
comment on constitution, and a new constitu­
ing. His secretary stated that, 

happened both in court and at 
tion proposed by the Student
Mishawaka City Court Judge "The city brought the film to the teatre. 
Government will come into ef­
William Means issued a warrant our attention and we sent a 

Mishawaka's mayor Margaret fect. David Krashna
for exhibiting obscene material 

group to view it Friday, No­Prickett has been working on 
Winings and Student Body the majority of students favor
against Mrs. Vivian Simon, vember 27. They then decided 

alleviating the problem of porno­
President David Krashna plan to the proposed constitutional
manager of the Cinema Art to file the charge against Mrs. graphy in her city for over a 
talk to students in the residence change, but they foresee a pro­
Theatre in Mishawaka, Simon." She didn't know the 

year. The chief of police, his 
halls latter this week, both about blem in getting 60% of the stu­
yesterday. In a brief hearing held amount of the fine that will be 

assistant, numerous detectives 
the referendum and about stu­dent body to vote. This is the
Monday morning Judge Means levied against Mrs. Simon. 

dent governmnet in generaL This minimum number that will make
also ordered the Mishawaka Po­Mishawaka police presented 

speaking in the halls, along with the referendum valid. 
lice Department to confiscate the warrant to Mrs. Simon and 

conducting extensive investiga­
the publication of their views in "You can't force people to
the alleged obscene film, "He confiscated the film Monday 

tions during this period. The 
the Observer, will constitute their vote," said Krashna, "but we
and She". afternoon. There was no trouble, 

department has viewed films, 
campaign. will try to encourage them to by
Krashna and Winings feel that argumentation."





-.------­
Page 2 

--------------------------------------~---=~=~~(J==~~
~~~--------------------------------------~D~~em~oo~r~2~,1~9~7~0 


PARTY 
Sponsored by 
THE GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
Party Time Between Thanksgiving Vacation and Finals 
Tll\lE: 9 p.m. -1 a.m. ENTERTAINMENT: A Live Bane DATE: December 6, 1970 (Sun.)PRICE: $4 per couple PLACE: The Black Mikado $2.50 single 
LIQUIDS: Hard & Beer 
A v ilable in Librar Mez anine 

Interested in Studying law 
PROFESSOR SPEIDEL of t:le-UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA SCHOOL OF LAW will answer questions pertaitiing t6 law as a study and as a profession on WEDNESDAY DECEMBER 2 at 7:30PM in NIEUWLAND 

SCIENCE HALL' If you have intentions of TI1is is a big opportUility going to law school it is for Freshmen, Sophomores, and important that you be there. Juniors to have their questions answere DEAN WADDICK will also be present to discuss the academic requirements needed for the study of law and sugges_ted electives. 

Join theCassette Revolution! 
... study for exams with cassettes now! You'll neve1r want to study any other way! 
Each cassette is a full one-hour recording of all the impor­tant content mate1rial taught in college courses based on the most widely-used textbooks. ' 
READY NOW: 
Introductory Psychology 
Educational Psychology 
Abnormal Psychology 
AVAILABLE SOON: 
Afro-American History 
Introductory Physics, I 
Introductory Economics 
Introductory Philosophy 
American Government 
English Composition 
Basic Statistics 
Introductory Sociology 
Introductory Anthropology 
Social Psychology 
Personal Adjustment and 
Mental Hygiene 
Child Dev~lopment 
Available at your local bookstore. 
CASSETTE PACKAGE*: $6.95 
'each package contains: one-hour 
cassette. an outline of the contents, a 
bibliography of the standard textbooks 
for the course, and a detailed glossary 
with definitions for self-testing. 
I~ 1 COLLEGE CASSETTE OUTLINE SERIES 
11 ~. HOII, Rinehart and Winston. Inc. 383 Modison Avenue, New York 10017 



Pizza Hut Pete Presents 
ND & SMC 
"Holiday Special" Y2 price on any pizza or soft drink 
With School I.D. 
Monday thru Thursday Good only at ti1e Edison Rd. !-IUT 2 
EAT IN OR CARRY OUT 
TRY OUR NEW SUBMARINESANDWICH 
• 
2 LOCATIONS-CALL AHEAD 288-6060 SO. BEND #1 ACROSS FROM I.U. 233~3827 SO. BEND #2 MILE EAST OF N.D. 
w·e Are the Nations Largest! 
Student Senate cuts SU budget to $35,000 
This year's Student Union Budget is set at $35,000, act;or­ding to Brien Nagle, Student Union Comptroller. This is an increase of $12,000 from last year's budget, but it includes a $14,000 allottment for the new Cultural Arts Commission in the Student Union, including the Sophomore Literary Festival, . the Collegiate Arts Festival and 
Cinema 71. 
The orginal budget was esti­
mated at $43,000 and trimmed 
to $37,000 by the Finance Com­
mittee of the Student Union. 
The Student Senate made a fur­
ther budget cut of $2000, taking 
$1000 from the Sophomore 
Literary Festival and the Aca­
demic Commission. 
The five parts of the Student 
Union, Administration, Social ·Commission, Academic Commis­sion, Cultural Arts Commission and Services each receive a year­ly budget according to the ex­penditures that are expected for the school year. In some cases, one commission may run at a loss while another may run at a profit, thus balancing out the 
budget as far as possible. 
The Administration budget 
this year is $4200, a decrease of 
$1200 from last year due to the 
fact that 1 secretary rather than 
2 is being employed this year. 
The Social Commission, 
which lost $2000 last year, is 
expected to make a profit of 
$300 this year due to the un­
usually good profits from con-

KEPLER 

MOTOR SALES 
'63 Buick, 4 dr., power  $395  
'63 Ford, 4 dr., power  $495  
'64 Pon. 4 dr., power  $595  
'63 Olds F-85, 2 dr.  $595  
'65 Rambler convt.  $595  
A 11 cars sold with  

lifetime warrenty ... Top prices paid for used cars 2306 Western Ave. Ph. -288-3250 

certs so far. 
The Academic Commission is 
budgeted at $19,000 this year 
from $16,000 last year. The 
increase is expected to be made 
up by profits from the Social 
Commission as well as an allott­
ment from St. Mary's College. 
The Services Commission, in-eluding Publications and Press, expects to break even. Publica­tions prints the Observer with a revenue of $16,000 but this re­sponsibility will be removed when the printing machines are sold to the newspaper and it does its own printing. Press is concerned with advertising and xerox work and has cut its staff from nine to six employees. 
Nagle was satisfied with the final budget. terming the Fin­ance Committee• adjustments as "justifiable cuts." However, he thought the Senate cuts on the Academic Commission and the Sophomore Literary Festival will "cut down on the program they will be able to offer." 
Last week the Student Union Board approved the expendi­tures of the Union so far this. year, finding that the Student Union has spent Jess than one­third of its budget, although the year is more than one-third over. The Board members are Prof. John Houck, Rev. Thomas Blantz and Union Director Bob Pohl.he product being advertised in this case is strictly for whites only which in turn raises some interesting issues. 


City bears down on film 
(continued from page 1) 
stores to uncover pornography. 
They feel that the film "He and 
She" is obscene and that it is 
substantial evidence to bring 
charges in court against the Cine­
ma Art Theatre. 
Mrs. Prickett was not in her . office but her secretary spoke 
the city on the situation. She stated that "the pornography law itself is confusing, and this makes the situation difficult. The mayor has communicated on many. occasions with the citizens of Mishawaka and they have expressed a low opinion of the theatre. They also showed objections to the ~inema Art's existence and to the obscenity circulating among young peo­ple". 
Mishawaka didn't try to close the theatre for obscenity pre­viously because they felt that their evidence was not porno­graphic enough to merit a favor­able court decision. They city now feels that this material is definitely illegally bbscene. 





!BUSINESS MAIORSII 
t t 
: UNIV. CLUB & FINANCE CLUB : 
: CO-SPONSOR 
l 

1 "Meet the Prof Night" l 
t tonight, 8 p.m. ! ' at the Faculty Club ' 
t t 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--· -' 

~:;:::::::;:::::::;:;:;:::::::;::::::::::::::::::=~:=:.)..~:~:~~==~;j~::::::::.~:~:::::~:::::::::~:::::!::::.~:~:::::!:::::::!;.:;~!~~:::::::.::;:~ 

~li~ ROGERS OPTICAl. ljll
» . " 
~~~j Complete Spectacle Service llll :;:; Glasses Duplicated ::~ ~~~~ Your Doctor's RX Filled l~ 
» » 
~j~j laraest selection of .. wires" ~ 
ll~ 214 S. Michigan {next to State Theatre) 289 7809 ~ 
~ ~ 
:::: ).::
~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~;;;::::::::;::;:::~!:~:~:~:~:~:~:!:~:~:~:~:~:::~::==:::::!::::::::$1 

* Dual Motor System * Dynamic Microphone 
*Inputs for auxiliary (radio & phono etc.) sockets for remote start stop/AC adapter 
* Outputs for external speaker & earphones 
$39.95 ,J 
1320 (LA-9) 


AL SMITH'S 
RECORD BAR





/lore/co· 
128 W. Washington Ave. Phone: 232-3344

CASSEl IE 
FOR THE LATEST PRE-RECOROED TAPES


RECORDER 
AND RECORDS 
Page 3

~D~ec~em~b~e~r-~2,~1~97~0~-----------------------------------7llJ! ()Jtr~


My Lai trial resumes 11fl<:lRi'iu--uRSG1F' 
• • f Free form "Wet Look" vinyl bag !
•th prOSeCUtiOn Witness' _~--. ~hairs~rethem_ost~evolutionarything'
WI f et·
m furn1ture des1gn m 2000 years! t 
. . . 
FT' BENNING Ga (UPI) The tial of lst Lt. Wilham L. Calley governme~nt has att~mpted to Jr. that a massacre did occur at show thus far in the court mar-My Lai. Now it is expected to 

try to pl~ce Calley at the_ scene. ~he tnal rccesse? _for six_days
dunng the ThanksgiVIng holidays re~umed at 1 p.m. yesterday with the_appe~rance of the 22nd prcosellcuti2on witness. . 
a ey' 7• charged With mur­dering 102 Vietnamese civilians in a March 16, 1968 sweep by his infantry platoon through the village of My ~ai sp~nt the holi 
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh day r~cess _helpmg h1s attorneys o~garuze_ his defens_e. T~e pre. V!ous Witnesses dunng SIX days
HesburJit on 
of testimony told of seeing civi­lians slaughtered and of viewing

news board 
two large groups of civilianThe Rev. Theodore M. Res­bodies.
burgh, C.S.C., president of the None so far has mentioned 
University of Notre Dame, has Calley in connection with anybeen named to the 16-member shooting other than to say the editorial advisory board of a new platoon he commanded was part
monthly newspaper called World of the company that destroyedPeace News. 
the hamlet. The newspaper, which started However, the chief prosecutor publication this month from Capt. Aubrey M. Daniels III has offices in the United Nations 
told the six officer court martial Plaza in New York City, is inten­board jury that government ded as an international forum 
would show that Calley helped for supporters of world law and 
shoot down a group of men, peace movements. 
women and children who had The first issue dealt with in­
been quarded by Dennin Conti terviews with presidents of I 0 
of Providence, R.I. universities -including Notre 
Another group guarded byDame, Yale, Harvard, and New 
Pfc. James Dursi, Damiel said in York University in the United 
his opening statement, was taken States -on peace issues. The to an irrigation ditch where Cal­newspaper's publisher is Thomas 
ley ordered them showed in and Liggett. 
executed. He said Dursi refused 


Party Santas needed for children's X mas 
There won't be a Christmas 15 Head-Start centers on for 600 children in South Bend's Monday, Tuesday, and Wednes­Head-Start centers without at day mornings. least 4-5 volunteers from each At the parties King would like hall. to have a Santa Claus distribut­
According to Dave Lah, who ing gifts ranging from 50 cents is chairing the Christmas project, to one dollar. But, he reempha­"All the presidents have been sized that "it won't work unless very nice, but they are afraid we get the volunteers from the that the hall residents won't be halls." ' able to participate because of The Blue Circle, Afro-Ameri­final exams. We need only two can Society, Army ROTC and hours from each volunteer." Alpha Phi Omega are also 

& £< 
' ' 
ber of another squad "saw & _e'!'_ these people being executed." ' The prosecutor said Radio-& man, Charles Sledge, saw an old ' man begin t ~-~.Y
to plead for his life ---i-. . 
and that Calley "butt stroked his & , face with a rifle." Someone then ' yelled that a child was getting & away, Daniel said, and when it ' 
crawled from the ditch Calley & " . k d th h"ld th .t. ' 
pic e up e c 1 , rew 1 m

the ditch and shot and killed it." & ' 
f 

OPEN MEETING OF & SLC & ' 
' 

t 
MON., DEC. 9, & 4 15 CCE ' 
: ' & Everybody invited to ' address questions to & SBP & Vice-Pres. of ' · Student Affairs f . 
,. 
This far out chair adapts to the shape & of your body-whatever shape it's in. ' 
R II h" d . h . k & 
ea y. ip stu ent SIZe c air ma. es a ' cozy reclmer f~r 2 ~eopl~ too! Can also t be used ~s a kmg-s1ze_ pillow ?r a soft­
ball for JOlly green g1ants. Its stuffed f 
with pounds of virgin poly styrene. And & it's portable too. ' You can have this plump bag of f squishiness in Beautiful Black Flame t 
' Red or Sunny Yellow.
f II · ' k · II &
Best o a , 1t wont _ta e~a your ' 
bread, just a paltry th1rty-s1x bucks & (freight prepaid). It'll probably adapt to ' your pocketbook. If not, just lay this t ad on your old man before national S Cl D All 1 f k & 
· au_s ay. ow a coup e O wee s ' for delivery. f 
r----------------------------, & 1 Mail to: BAGLAND 1 ' l 1970 Valley View Rd. l & 1 Northbrook, Ill. 60062 1 ' I I &
1 Name 1 ' lAddress llCity State Zip___ l f 

-:-.a..-~-=-~.a:-a.:-.-.-.-.-.aa._-._ 
-~----------------------,

i URBAN STUDIES 
l  INFORMATION  t ~  
: t  Community Service for Academic Credit Double MaJor In Urban Studies  I t t t  
Certificate In Urban Studies  
ROCKNE MEMORIAL  
TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY  
DECEMBER I and 2  


Pre-Law Society -University 
of Virginia School of Law, Char­lottesville, Virginia -Prof. Speiedel is scheduling interviews for prospective students on Thurs­day, December 3, 1970 -Signups 
Check outside 205 Business Bldg. 
for exact location 
Anyone interested in inter-collegiate bowling please call 283-1983. 


If the commission gets the needed volunteers, they plan to 

& BlooCI Rock
sponsor Christmas parties at the 


frid?· ~-4 8:3~ ..... 
stepan center tickets $3 on sale at student 
union ticket office & dining halls 
'the Observer Is published dally during the college semester except vacations bY the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. ~ry's College. Subscriptions may be purc:halld for sa from The 0~ Mrver, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. second claa poat• peld, Nqtre oame, Ind. 46556. 

------------------~----­
Page 4 THB OBSERUEit 
December 2,_1970 






THE OBSERVER 
An independent Student Newspaper 
GLEN S. CORSO, Editor-in-C1ief J03N E. KNORq_, Executive Editor 
BRUCE RIECK,. Buo;bess ¥Ianager
"No country is free where the public offi­cials are too cowardly or too corrupt to protect the fundamental rights of loyal and law-abiding citizens." 
W.R. Hearst, August 21, 1936 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3 1966 
Closing the Door on the Crypt 
They're closing the Crypt, and it's really too bad. Tile Crypt provided a genuine service to the students; it was fun to get a decent price on a record, while it lasted. But when everyone went over to the Crypt, nobGdy went over to Hammes Notre Dame and paid their outrageous prices. As a result, the University lost money. 
It's hard to believe that this ninety million dollar campus has trouble scraping together enough money to make ends meet, but it's true. This University's financial status has long been a dibilitating feature in its attempt to expand. And the present debt stands yet to be reckoned with. 
So the University, out of a harsh necessity, is shylocking a lot of students in a lot of little ways, which is a whole lot better than getting all students in one big way -like bigger campus-wide tuition increases. It is, in fact, things like Hammes Notre Dame's enormous profit that allows the University to get away with as low a tuition as it has so far. 
So the Crypt must go, a monument to the constant reminder that circumstance can force upon this Catholic university the first of the three Priestly virtues, if not the other two. 

Let Them Have Their Dirty Movies 
The city of Mishawaka, not without some Messianic zeal, has apparently decided to prosecute the manager of the notable Cinema Art Theatre for showing tht~ allegedly obscene movie, "He and She". 
No one in his right mind is prepared to argue that "He and She"-or most anything shown at the Cinema Art -is a signigicant contribution to Western Culture. It is surely a form of vicarious fornication, an exercise consistent with man's state since the fall of Adam. So be it. 
Far more ominous than the movie's presence is the action of the city government. For in attempting lu prohibit the movie's showing and to fine the Theatre's management, the city has set itself up as a corporate judge of questions of intensely personal standards. The city is -highhandedly and arbitrarily -attempting to deny a whole selection of derelicts their principal form of entertainment. And the derelicts are citizens, just like you or us or Father Hesburgh or the Mayor of Mishawaka. They obey laws and pay taxes and serve in the army, and they should be eligible for whatever perversion the Cinema Art has to offer. 
The Observer,then, hopes that the city's case will be thrown out of court. It is especially imortant that the Cinema Arts be left alone during this particular period of time. The football season will soon be over, and without their dirty movies, many fine young Notre Dame men will be forced to visit wakes and the like for their entertainment. 
INDIANA 

't 

John Barkett 

t==~====:=::::::::::=====

IOn the Abolition 1 of the Senate 
The following is the third in a series ofarticles written by people in
t 
and associated with student government about the proposed new con­stitution. Mr. Barkett is the chairman of the Hall President's Cou­
t 
ncil and President ofMorrissey Hall. 
t t 
t The main issue in the proposed Student Government Constitution is the replacement of the Senate with a councilt made up of hall presidents, one off-campus representative, and lh<! Studenb Body President who would serve as Chairman. The
t 
Observer has asked me to comment on this facet of the t Constitution, and in doing so. I wish to focus on three points. 
t 
t 
First of all, do the Presidents have the time? The answer to this 
t 
question reflects on the Senate's functions which -outside of the t budget -are really nothing. Some claim research, others claim a legislative function, but if one examines the reality of thet situation, the Senate's "functions" can be handled easily by Student Government committees and the new council with little 
t 
loss of time. Even tile budget question could be solved with a more efficient distribution of the Finance Committee's recommendations to the council.members so they could examine t what they would be voting on. 
t 
t Secondly, some claim that the Constitution merely transfers functions to a different body solving absolutely nothing. On thet contrary, I think it will solve a great deal of problems. 
t 
t 
It will eliminate an election; recognize Hall Presidents who are in the best positions to effect change around here; and bring the Student Body President closer to the halls than he ever has been 
before. 

t 
t 
t 
Lastly, I think some students are getting hung up on "power plays," on institutions, on "centralization," etc. when they refer 
t 
t 
to the abolition of the Senate. They claim that the manpower of SO students is lost. They claim a voice of the students is silenced. Just what "power" is everyone talking about? And if students are 
t 
that interested in helping, I assure you that "manpower" will do t more good improving life in the hall for themselves and their neighbors. As for the ''voice" there is the Scholastic, WSND, andt the Observer; there are hall presidents, the Student Body Preisdent and countless others to complain to and suggest to; 
t 
there are numerous Administrators who will listen -what I mean is if someone has something to say, it can easily be done without 
a Senate. Again, if one is realistic about the campus situation, onet will see that the issues of importance at Notre Dame aside from academics are centered around hall life, around people -yourt frien'ds and mine. 
t 

t 
The proposed constitution has been late in coming and there 
are some minor complaints I have about it; however, the directiont towards the halls the Constitution is taking, 1 feel, merits itst passage in the upcoming referenrl11m 

tt----------------------­
t t 

t 
Managing Editor: William Cartert Editorial Page Editor: T.C. Treanor Features Editor: Dave Lammers t Sports Editor: Terry Shields SMC News Editor: Jeanne Sweeney t Associate Editors: Dave Stauffer,Sue Bury Night Editresses: Mary Chris Morrison t Ann Conway Layout: The Gro·up 
t 
Headlines: Jim Roe Controller of the Night: Rick Smith 
t 
' 



--------------: 
1970 THE OBSERfJER. Page 5 
---~----~ 

There's no God in the Munich train station 
Jim Le•ry 
Northern Wisconsin Boondock's Zen 
All these tired words, pulled slow like a knife through· cheese, heavy like a walk in the marshy woods, sure do frustrate me. They won't kick ass. They are blind. 
Old October has stretched, coughing out old leaves and spitting much rain, into a strangely mild November, which the wind pushes toward December and snow. I am waiting for snow, but it hasn't come. I have only worn gloves a few times; the cold has not yet come. I have 
left my wondow open so the air could winnow and cure the dust and black paint carpentry smells that sit inside my house. I have not worn a hat in months, but probably mostly because I lost my hat. It was a good hat and worth wearing; an Australian bush hat (a real one) with the 
brim down flat 'cause I don't like 'em buttoned on the side. (Ain't no-heavy Rat Patrol digger dude.) Anyway it is Decem­ber and l am waiting for snow. Waiting for it to slide down, clean and slow and whirling, from a gray sky fat with douds. Something mystic about a first snow: the way the snow cases down wet and white and then disappears: watery on the 
ground. Seems like the ground docsn 't 
like being covered. It fights the snowfall, feel good and I see the squirrels and changing the snow endlessly into familiar twisty, fallen branches; moss, trees, wild water, but it never wins the fight. It .~lways gets covered and then it t'alls flowers, bugs and berries. Perhaps I will asleep, grunting periodically, drinking climb a tree and just watch the woods for occasionally during sporadic sun rages, a day or days, seeing things that it is 
but mostly just laying lazy accepting the impossible to write about. Seeing things. 
temporary white weight and, perhaps, YES. · 

Dennis Wall 
MUNICH-Have you ever sat in the Munich train-station? Try it sometime, my friend. I have been travelling for the past three weeks and 1 figure at least four or five solid days have been spent in that stolid, stodgy mon­ument to man's habitual but inadequacy. I slept there one night, too. In front of the door to the so-called "Catholic Rail­road-Station-Mission." They are extremely Christian at the mis­sion--almost as Christian as the Notre Dame Community--they have a very warm and comfor­table sitting room for those who have no place to stay in the city. There is only one hitch: only women and children are allowed inside. and that is why I was sleeping in the doorway. 
Actually, you don't have to sit in the Munich train-station per se. I suppose that any train­
station will do. It's just that l happ·~ned to be sitting in Mun­ich's pride when I came to the realization that there is no God in the Munich train-station. I was sitting there late at night 
Lowenstein needs_ help 40,000 dollar debt 
Allard Lowenstein returned to Notre Dame on Sunday, November 22, to repay his "greatest political debt which is, of course, to Notre Dame." 
Ironically speaking on the seventh anniversary of the assassination of John 
F. Kennedy, he spoke of " ... an enormous resurgence of hope and not a sense of despair." Thankful for the phenomenal support of the dedicated young, he reminded the 35 Notre Dame -St. Mary's volunteers that we are the new political force, " ... the future belongs to us." 
In light of his Senior Fellow Award, (one of many "late-at-nights"), watching the weirdos do their "tricks" and thinking. "If one of you comes near me I'll punch you right in the mouth." Then I looked, and I mean I really took a good look, at the grey walls and the grey people and the greyness inside my heart. I real­ized that there was so little Christ in that edifice--impersonal 
people selling tickets  to  places  
that  were  but  names  to  them,  
serving  people  that  must  be  

quite annoying, judging from. their reactions to them, with all their questions--the faces change day after day, but the questions remain essentially the same; the pairs of men all over the station eagerly e¥eing _the lone_ women walking through; and, finally, the drunks. Those spiritually and economically poor creatures who continually remind us of failure. The police at the :Munich train-station, like their colleagues all the world over, regularly roust the sleeping, all­b u t-unconcious fellows from their unrestful resting-places, put 
meditating on the new creatures that will slowly crawl out of it in the coming spring. Does it ever have hesitations, ·second thoughts, stuff like that? Shit, no. 
What docs all this mean? 
OH NO, I am about to degenerate into hype metaphysical brain jive. Don't want that. SWITCH -Walking through Notre Dame I do not see the quiet buildings around me. Their windows are dark and their columns have blasted them into the wide, night sky, away from m~, maybe never to return. (Zappasian monotone, some weird snake voice crawls eerie into my ear: "Maybe, if I concentrate real hard, I can time warp and then I'll be real secure like I'd just fixed the seats so they'd tilt backwards. and t;;ken my jelly-roll gumdrop to the root beer stand. HOTCHA!") 
I am not at Notre Dame, but in the forest of Northern Wisconsin, crunching dry leaves under my feet, carrying a picnic basket, an old wooden one. I sing, in my tuneless, growl-aaargh voice, an old song from the air. I just open my mouth and the song rushes in, does some woodsy 
magic stuff and comes leaping hack out like a bark, like bark -rough and dirty. l 
the debt for his leadership is high. A idea conceived of by the N.D.-S.M.I volunteers involves their going door 1 door canvassing the campus fc contributions rather than vote 
Lowenstein's campaing expenses 
$40,000 include a $4000 car· accide1 involving six of the Notte Dan volunteers as they travelled to New Yo1 to help in the campaign. Since the expenses will come out of his own meag funds, the students wish to help whatever way possible. The canvass w 
be conducted over the next few eveninf 
Any response will be appreciated. 
them on their feet, and take them out~ide the doors of the train-station until the police leave. Having played the game that far, the human derelicts return, only to kick off another half about an hour later. and, as in any game, there is an audi­ence. I wonder why we always smile at drunks. Is it because. we do not wish to consider them seriously, as people who need help-our help? Seeing this dis­dainful display of mild heartless­ness in my fellows made me see the same in myself. I suddenly realized that I was sitting there, judging the "weirdos~' and all the others, when I should have been trying to understand. Just as I found that there was no God in that train station, I found that there was, at that moment, too 
little  Christ  in  myself.  Which  
made  that  cold  train-station  
seem colder.  

wonder how often we listen 



Guess wllat 's cMttl? 
to that woice within us that speaks of justice and love. I wonder if we, all of us, perhaps place our values elsewhere, where they so little belong. We must reorient ourselves, and choose a new direction. The path is well-marked for us, and our destination has been staked out by the Tom Dooleys, Albert Schweitzers, Dr. Kings, and John Kennedys of our history. We must choose the path that is broad enough for our brothers as well as ourselves, the path where all men can join hands and go forward to their common desti­nation, a place where they can speak together without having to raise their voices. It is that effort that must be continued, or we 
shall soon find ourselves at the end of our personal and national histories. Let history record, if not that we as a people suc­ceeded in solving the common miseries of man-poverty, injus­
tice, ignorance, disease and the 
malaise of misunderstanding, then at least that we tried. 
I just wrote about the dere­licts of the world's train-stations continually reminding us of fail­ure. Perhaps I should clarify that by saying that they remind us of our failures, as well as theirs. Anyone who has watched people laugh at them, or watched the big brave men all but assault those women who are either 
-brave enough or foolish ertough to walk through stations at night alone, anyone who has seen the fights, anyone who has seen the people who laugh too loud, drink and eat too much and live too little stumbel aboard their trains, and, finally, anyone who has looked inside himself and found that he has been listening too much to his fears and too little to his heart, will know what I mean. For they shall have "sat in the Munich train­
station." 
F~ 
,......----------­
-~ --~---~ ~ 

THI!. OBSERJJER. 
December 1970

6 
NOW UNDER ONE PARACHUTE, THE GREATEST SELECTION OF JEANS & OTHER THINGS. 

Male Viceroy Landlubber Barnacle Bells Tads 
(Sizes for g;ds & guys) 



SKY KING 
212 S. Michigan Across from Robertson's 





icHJ1D 

HEAD AND LEATHER SHOP 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEE 



Dr. Lawrence Baldinger succumbs to leukemia 
Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, associate dean of the University of Notre Dame's College of Science and a faculty member at the University for 37 years, died shortly after noon Saturday (Nov. 28) in St. Joseph Hospital of leukemia. He was 63. 
Born in Galion, Ohio, on Jan­uary 12, I 907, Baldinger was awarded pharmaceutical chemist and bachelor of science degrees by Western Reserve University in 
NOTRE DAME AVE 
I 928-29 and received his master of science degree from Notre Dame in I 931. Two years later he joined Notre Dame's depart­ment of pharmacy and was made its head in !lJ33. The pharmacy department was absorbed into the department of chemistry in 1939. 
1n I 941 , Baldinger was named assistant dean of the College of Science, acting dean in 1942 and dean of the College in 1943. He was dean until 1960 and during this time he also served as advi­sor to pre-medical students at Notre Dame, a capacity in which he continued as associate d~an and head of the department of pre-professional studies. Hun-



If General Electric 
can build an electric tractor, why can't they build an 

electric car? 
General Electric is marketing a 
14-horsepower rechargeable electric 
tractor capable of speeds up to 7 
miles an hour. 
We think it's a remarkable 
innovation. But an electric car it's not. 
As a garden tractor for home 
use, Elec-Trak(r can take advantage of 
characteristics that would be distinct 
disadvantages in an electric car. 
The availability of fuel is no 
problem for Elec-Trak. It's designed 
for limited use near electrified 
structures, making overnight 
recharging possible. 
The heavy weight of the 
battery, which would slow down a 
car, means greater applied traction 
for Elec-Trak. 
Because Elec-Trak must travel at slow speeds to do its jobs, there , are no aerodynamic energy losses to take into consideration. 
Still, one might expect Elec-Trak to be the forerunner of a pollution­free automobile. Perhaps it is. But there are many crucial problems left to be solved. 
The most important one, of course, is the development of a substantially better electric battery. Any car built today would be severely limited in range and performance, and probably prohibitively expensive. 
General Electric is making progress on new batteries, but there's a long way yet to. go. 
We've experimented with zinc­air batteries. Sodium-sulfur batteries. Silver-zinc batteries. Lithium­halogen batteries. And others. There are problems with all of them. Problems of Iife-span, cost, practicality. 
Despite the problems, General Electric scientists and engineers are working for the breakthrough that will make electric cars possible. 
Maybe the breakthrough is closer than we think. But we'll 

GENERAL,~~ ELECTRIC 
continue to work and leave the predictions to someone else. 
Why are we running this ad? 
We're running this ad, and others like it, to tell you the things General Electric is doing to solve the problems of man and his environment today. 
The problems concern us becau~e they concern you. We're a business and you are potential customers and employees. 
But there's another, more important reason. These problems will affect the future of this country and this planet. We have a stake in that future. As businessmen. And, simply, as people. 
We invite your comments. Please write to General Electric, 570 Lexington Ave., New York, N.Y. 10022. 
dreds of undergraduates who la­ter became physicians were counseled by Baldinger and many of them wrote him during his recent illness. In 1950 he was given Notre Dmae's lay faculty a ward for distinguished service to the University. 
A full professor of chemistry, his specialty was organic chemis­try and he did extensive research on the oil of peppermint, much of it carried out at Purdue Uni­veristy during the summers of 1937 to 1941 for the U.S. De­partment of Agriculture in co­operating with Purdue's horticul~ ture department. He was also a member of the Academic Coun­cil at Notre Dame and secretary of the University Faculty Board in Control of Athletics. 
He published articles in the journals of the American Chemi­cal Society, the American Phar­maceutical Association and the Drug and Cosmefic !ndustry. 
Survivors include his wife, Helen; three sons, Lawrence, Jr., Jackson, Mich., James, Belmont, Calif., and Charles, South Bend; and a daughter, Mrs. Bernardo D'Almeida, Portugal. 

Funeral arrangements are with the Hickey Funeral Home, 2709 Lincolnway West. A funeral Mass was said at 10:30 a.m. Tuesday at Sacred Heart Church, and the wake .began at 7 p.m. Sunday at the funeral home. 

ROTC proves ococlemic need 
The increasing importance of advanced education for officer personnel in American armed forces is evident in graduate en­rollment figures released today by University of Notre Dame Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) units. 
Eighty per cent of the officers assigned to the Army, Air Force or Navy ROTC units on the earn pus are pursuing graduate degrees in their off-duty hours, according to Col. M.M. Staples, commanding officer and pro­fessor of naval science. All told, 37 officers from the four bran­

ches of military service, either assigned to one of the three Notre Dame units or on a leave of absence from their respective services, are advancing their aca­demic qualifications. 
It is expected that all officers assigned to the campus units will be engaged in some phase of graduate work in the spring se­mester of I 971, Col. Staples said. 
Graduate degrees sought range from an MA in sociology to a Ph.D. in aeronautical engineer­ing. 
Thirty per cent of the degrees sought are in the area of inter­national relations and foreign afffairs. A similar number are involved in the combined busi­ness administration-engineering 
program, while the remainder cover a wide range of subject matter, including history, law and education. 
ACTIViTIES FEE TABLED 

(continued from page 1) 
Student Union Committee. 
Next a bill proposed by Sena­tors Devine, Wall, Novak, and Clark protesting "Queen" con­tests run by an individual or group affiliated with Student Government was referred to the Senate Human Affairs Commit­
tee. 


Page 7

December 2, 1970 THE OBSERVER. 

•


Austin back to normal, Irish w1n 
by Terry Shields •
second half with a pressing The Irish grabbed the lead for turnovers or errors that the 
shots bringing the crowd of
Observer Sports Editor 
defense in a suprise move by good with about 14 minutes 
Domers committed. Thirty gifts I0,489 to their feet. In the end
Austin Carr took up right 
Irish coach Johnny Dee, rematnmg. Key hoops by to the opposition will be far too was Austin drew the
it who
where he left off last season with 
considering the foul situation. It Meehan, Jones, Carr and two by much if the opponent happens 
greatest ovation. The public
a brilliant 38 point performance 
was this defense that led to some Big John Pleick suppleid the fire to be somebody like South address stated
announcer the

at Ann Arbor, Michigan last 
key steals by Jack Meehan which power to put the game away. Carolina, UCLA or Kentucky. 
point totals and a huge oohhh
night as he led his sixth ranked 
helped put the game out of At one point in the second Michigan committed 20 errors so went up for the Irish captain. 
Irish teammates to a 94-81 
reach. Meehan hit I 0 points, half the Irish lead reached 16 these high totals could be 
Notre Dame now faces the
victory over a hustling Michigan 
nine in the second half, to help points. Although the Irish only attributed to the fact that this unenviable task of facing No. 2
Wolverine team. 
blow the Irish away from s~.:ored three more field goals was the opener for both teams. 
ranked South Carolina on
Carr had 20 of his markers in 
Michigan. than the Wolves they were far 
Dan Fife and Rod Ford aided Saturday evening. The game will
the second half when the Irish 
The "run-run" game that both more accurate from the foul Brady in the UM scoring attack. be the home debut of Austin
rallied from a four point deficit teams were gradually
playing line. NO shot 20 of 30 from the 
Brady was high for Michigan Carr, Collis Jones, Jack Meehan,
to the final 13 point margin. 
wore down the imposing Brady charity stripe. Mishigan manged with 20 and Fife, a hustling 
et.al. Johnny Dee has one down
Austin had ample help from J. 
and when he took a short only I 0 of 24 tosses. Carr was guard who turned in 
an and 25 to go.
Collis Jones. Mr. Jones hit for 30 breather in the early going of the the big difference here. The outstanding floor game, added 
In a preliminary game the
points and was the key second half the Irish started to All-American candidate hit eight 19. Rodney Ford who drew the 
Notre Dame freshmen defeated
rebounder for Notre Dame. 
~·v" llllllgs out on the boards. for eight. tough assignment of handling 
the I 03-83.
The first half was see-saw Michigan freshmen 
One sour note of the Irish Austin, managed 17 markers. 
No details were available.
affair which saw the lead change NOTRE DAME 
victory was the huge number of Ford blocked a few of Carr's 
hands eight times and tied eight NAME FG FT TP times. Den Brady a 6'9" Carr 15 8 38
sophomore controlleq the 
Jones 12 6 30 
Irish matmen open tonight
hoards for the Wolves 
Pleick 3 1 7
throughout the initial frame and 
Meehan 3 4 10 
by Terry Si1ields senior from Nappa, Cal. A four he rates the' Most Improved
at the half he had 12 points in 
Catlett 3 
0 6 Observer Sports Editor year veteran on the Irish mats Wrestler on the squad after a 9-8
leading a balanced UM attack. 
Sinnott 1 0 2 
The last time Tom Ciaccio who has a chance of becoming showing last season.
Three different Irish players Gemmell 0 1 1 was the captain of a Terry the most successful wrestler in Brian Duffy, 167 lb. freshman
had come up with three personal Egart 0 0 0 
fouls by and each Regel an 0 0 Mather-coached wrestling team, ND history if he lives up to from Riverside, N.J. Brian was
intermission 0 
he led his team to the New York expectations for this season. He an all-district wrestler for two
was a board man for the Irish. MICHIGAN 
state championship. was high school years at his high school. 
Jones, John Pleick and Sid That was a All-America Ford 8 1 four years ago when Tom was a when he lived in Rochester, N.Y. Dave DiBacco, 177 lb. fresh­
Catlett all had three whistles 17 Fife 9 1 19 senior at Bishop Kearney High Rich Esposto, 134 lb. fresh­man from Tochester, N.Y.
blown on them. At the half, 
Brady 7 6 20 School in Rochester. man from A vella, Pa. Rich has a Coach Mather recruited Dave
things looked bleak for NO 
Wilmore 3 2 8 Now Ciaccio has moved up to mediocre high school record of from memory of his accomplish­
because of their showing on the 
Grabiec 3 0 
6 become the captain of the 11-10 in the tough Western ments in high school. DiBacco
boards and the apparent trouble 
Johnson 
2 0 2 1970-71 Fighting Irish wrestling Penna. area but according to wrestled against MathP-r's team.
that the foul situation would Hart 1 0 4 
squad and his coach has also Coach Mather "he has come a He had a phenomenal high
bring. Lockard 0 0 0 
moved up from the high school long way from his high school school record of 38-2-1.
Notre Dame came out in the Hayward 2 1 5 
to major college ranks. There days." Rick Aslage, 190 lb. freshman 
Jim Donaldson :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:~:~:~:~:~:~:!:~:~:::~:::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::: will be no "state championship" Mike Kemp, 142 lb. freshman from St. Louis, Mo. Another on the line for NO this season from Brockport, New York. talented Frosh, Rick was the but as Coach Mather states, Mike is a promising yearling holder of a 22-4 highschool 
"We'll have a strong team this whose high school record was a mark. year." successful 13-6. 
AI Rocek, Heavyweight fresh­Bob Habig, 150 lb. sopho­
Coach Mather is quite opti­man from Omaha, Neb. AI is a
Sports S,.orts 
mistic about the season even more from Indianapolis, Ind. Bob 240 lb. strong boy who was the though most coaches would is a real tough wrestler and a Nebraska state champ in high rather stay tight-lipped until the man to watch in the next few school. That's compliment e­
·············~·;·;·;·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:O!·!·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·::::::::::::~:::::::::::~:~:~:~:~:~:;:;:~:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
season starts. His optimisrn is years. As a freshman last season nough!
·.·.·.·~~~---~~;;~··~-~~~··f;~~b~;j·~~~~-~~·turned to the campus Monday 
questioned if one considers the he posted a mark of 13-7. Says Even though there are seven night. fact that he will use no less than Mather, "He may be the first yearlings starting for ND, Mather They returned, not as Notre Dame's first unbeaten, untied team seven freshmen as starting NCAA champ from Notre feels that the team will "break si11cc the 1949 squad, but as a downhearted, once-beaten ball club. wrestlers out of ten possible .500 at least. One the year goes
Dame." The Trojans of Southern California, who in 1964 had spo_iled Irish places. Ken Ryan, 158 lb. junio~ on we'll be better. Both Pat 
dreams of a perfect season and a national title .had once agam played The Irish open tonight against from Iowa. has and Phil Gustafson
Monona, Ken Mudron are the villain's role by handing Notre Dame a 38-28 setback in the final the St. Joe Pumas of Rensaler, won the nickname of experienced heavyweights who n:gular season game. It was a crushing defeat ·for Coach Parseghian Ind. Starting time is 7:30 p.m. in "Scramble" from his teammates will join the team after football· and his staff, for the players, and for thousands of Notre Dame the ACC Auviliary Gym. The for his wrestling style.· He is the season is over." supporters across the country. men that will take the mat size 
spirited member of the staff and The team's return was not a solemn affair, however. The Band of up this way: the Fighting Irish and a crowd of at least 500 students were waiting Chris Page, 118 lb. fresh man ~t the circle to greet the team and show them that, to the student from Haddon, New Jersey. Chris body, the Irish were still number I. As the two buses carrying the was the captain and Mo~~ Valu­team from the airport turned into Notre Dame A venue, the band able Wrestler of his higl· :>chool began playing the Victory March and when the vehicles reached the team. His scholastic reccrd was a circle they were surrounded. by the cheering mob. sparkling 40-11. Coach Parseghian emerged from the leading bus and stood on the Captain Tom Ciacci•J, 127 lb. steps in his bus' doorway, raising his arms to quiet the sound that welled up at his appearance. !lis remarks were brief and sincere. He thanked everyone for 


UPIPoll
coraing out to greet the team and apologized that he and his dub had been unable to defeat Southern Cal. He praised the spirit shown 
NEW YORK (UPI) The United by those on hand and, in answer to a chant of "We're number 1" Press International top 20 major that swellecl through the crowd, shouted that his Irish would be college football teams with first place "Number 1 in the Cotton Bowl". votes and won-lost-tied records in pa· The entire affair lasted only ten minutes but I don't think that I rentheses. will ever forget it. In less than three semesters of covering the 11th week. Notre Dame sports scene I have witnessed a number of memorable Team Points events but the memory of those ten minLLtes is the best yet. The 1. Texas (24) 9·0 317 
Notre Dame spirit is as strong in defeat as in victory and was most 2. x Ohio St. (5) 9·0 288 certainly present at the gathering Monday night. 3. x Neb. (4) 10-0·1 274 4. Tennessee 9-1 179
Irish Co-caption Tim Kelly said that it was "a great feeling" to see 
5. Arkansas 9-1 166
tile large turnout. "We were disappointed after losing the 
6. x Notre Dame 9·1 165
game"Kelly said. "Coach Parseghian had told us that we might be 
7. x Michigan 9·1 109 
met by a group back on campus but we didn't expect such a large 
8. Louisiana St. 8·2 107 
turnout. It was good to know that the students were still with us." 
9. Arizona St. 9-0 69 This Saturday I'll be cherring for the Texas Longhorns to top 10. x Auburn 8·2 66 Arkansas in their annual grudge battle. solely because I was to the 11. x Stanford 8-3 19 the Irish snap Texas' winning streak on January 1 in the Cotton 12. x Air Force 9·2 15 Bowl. And I'm convinced that, this time around, the Irish will 13. x Dartmouth 9·0 12 14. Houston 6-3 8
emerge from Dallas a winner. They will be out to avenge last year's 
15. Mississippi 7·2 7
loss. More importantly, they will be determined to prove they are 
16. Tie x Colo. 6·4 3
the nation's best football team, regardless of what happened in the 
Tie x Okla. 7·4 3 
mud of the L.A. Coliseum last week. 
Tie x UCLA 6·4 3 Tie x Toledo 11·0 3





I---------------, 
20. x Georgia Tech 8-3 2
Attention Sports StoH I All those interested in playing entry fee of $5.00 per player x-Completed regular season. intramural hockey should meet whi<;h will pay for a team jersey 

Others receiving votes: Washing· at the ACC ice rink Dec. 2 at 
and officials.
t There will be a short meeting this afternoon_at 3:30 p.mt 
ton. 10:15 p.m. 
Everyone interested must at­

fin The Observer office. Winter assignments w1ll be chosent Only 33 of 35 coaches partici­Bring skates, stick and gloves tend. pated in this week's balloting. 
to this meeting. There is an
~~~~~~~~~~~~-...-.~----..-. 

December 2, 1970 
U.S. taps N D faculty 

their respective constitutions in Manilla Dec. 7-1 I. The partici­pants will attend a pre-con­ference meeting Dec. 4-6. 
The State Department, in co-operation with the Philippine-American Education Foundation, is sponsoring the seventh annual American Studies Seminar, supported by a Ful­bright-Hays grant. 
Bartholomew, a consultant to the Department of the Navy, 
U.S. House of Representatives, State of Indiana and City of Chicago, is the author of numer­ous books and articles, including "Checks and Balances" and "Constitution" in the 1968 
Coke machine at Holy Cross was also damaged. 
Several cars were stolen or damaged. One car was stolen the night before the LSU game and recovered in Niles, Michigan. A battery was stolen from a car in the D2 lot. Early on the morning of 30 November, a security patrol found a 1967 Pontiac GTO with the hood open. Upon examination, they found the air cleaner assembly, oil cap, and left side-view mirror missing. 
Arthur Pears, Chief of Cam­pus Security, reported that to his knowledge there are no FBI agents on campus in any capa­city. "I would doubt that (there are any agents) very seriously," he said, adding that anyone within reach of a telephone could make a threat. "All the FBI agents in the world couldn't stop a born b threat." 
edition of Encyclopedia Amer­icana. i-lis annual analysis of the work of the Supreme Court appears in the Western Political Quarterly. 
Lawless, a justice of the New York Supreme Court before assuming his present post at Notre Dame on July l, 1968, served as secretary of the judic­iary committee for the 1967 New Yor)< State Constitutional Convention. He is co-author of a two-volume work, "New York Pattern Jury Charges." 
Bartholomew travelled to Manilla by air on Dec. l. Lawless will travel from Tokyo where he will be engaged in converstaions Dec. 2-3 with Officials of the University of Tokyo and S·ophia University as part of a prelim­inary exploration of the possible establishment of a Japanese Program for second year Notre Dame law students, similar to one presently con­ducted at the Univ,ersity of Lon­don. This program, if approved, would begin in September, 1972. 
Xmas is theme for Fri. dance 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Junior Classes will pre­sent "An Old Fashion Christ­mas" on Friday, December 4. The Dance is semi-formal and will be held in the LaFortune Ballroom on the second floor of the Student Center from 9 to 12 pm. Music will be by "Melting Pot", formerly "The Magnificent Seven". Tickets are $5 per couple and can be obtained from any Club '72 member and will be on sale in the dining halls from Monday to Wednesday. 


E FOR THE HOLIDAYSl 
See us before you go ••• we've got: 
SHIRTS! TIES! THINGS! 
Nothing but the latest (even some great Gants at exactly one-half price!) 
----BURBAN COAT SALE 
A fine selection priced to save as much as one-half. Makes warm friends for us. 
ALL-WEATHERS, TOO 
A nationally advertised coat with zip-out Alpaca liner $55 now at $34.50. Take it home with you. 
PAY NEXT SUMMER 
. Pay one-third in June 
. Pay one-third in July Pay one-third in August 
No carrying charge 
or interest 
FLARES! 
in all colorings and styles. 
ON 11IE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
Flanner Social Commission presents I LOVE YOU, ALICE B. TOKLAS with Wednesday at 10:30 Peter Sellers & 1o Van Fleet in America  
Attention Observer Staff: There will be • st•ff pleture t•ken Wednesd•y •fternoon •t 4:45 In the offlee. Chrlstm•s p•rty will be discussed.  


