SM C prof dismissed; releases statement Professor Michael T. Hinke­publications, and contributions to the Department Chairmen onidentified with Father Raymond Such actions are not Chris­to the College are not consideredmeyer, member of the SMC the need for "catholic" faculty;Runde, a professional colleague, tian, from whate;ver perspective. in these terminations. " Education Department faculty (3) notification on a "pinkwho was also informed that he They do not contribute to com­Hinkemeyer's Statement ofsince the fall of 1969, received a sheet" that the "catholic" posi­would be terminated. I regard munity spirit and most certainlyIntent, released to the Facultyletter notifying him of the ter­tion had to be emphasized in all that explanation as unsatisfac­they do not contribute to theof St. Mary's College by Pro­nimation of his contract on Nov­classes; (4) a statement to thistory if not totally ludicrous. I ideal of a college as an institu­fessor Hinkemeyer, follows: effect before the assembledember 25, 1970. would be proud to be identified tion of higher learning and a The ambiguities surrounding faculty, later somewhat miti­with Father Runde and so would place of unbounded inquiry. In gated in minutes of the samehis dismissal haFe led to the On ·November 19 The Obser­most members of our "Christian short, the negation of an ideal meeting; and (5) my letter tofollowing statement by Dr. ver reported that I had been College Community", to employ requires only the abnegation of Sister Alma expressing my con­Richard T. Bohan of the SMC notified of a contract termina­Sister Alma's phrase. an individual. And I will not be cern at these alarming actionsPolitical Science Department: tion at the end of this year. That On the basis of a preliminary he. and statements, a Jetter which"On the whole, this situation is reporting was accurate. I had examination, my imminent dis­I intend to pursue this matter was dated November 16, or fourbad for faculty morale; particu­been verbally informed to that missal is more probably the out­under the procedures available in days before my letter of termi­larly for faculty who have effect by a third echelon admin­come of ( 1) a religious poll the rules of the goverance of the nation which was dated Novem­recently come or faculty whom strator in the presence of a conducted by someone who college and -also under the pro­ber 20 and received Novemberwe hope to bring in this year, witness. The only explanation identified herself as Sister cedures available in American25.since apparently teaching ability_, . given was that I was too closely Alma's secretary; (2) a statement law.  


Vol. V No. 53 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College r'ommullit)' 
SlC approves new Grad Students Bill goes to Board of Trustees 

by Don Ruane 
A motion that the Student Life Council accept a recommen­dation by the Graduate Student Union to seat four graduate stu­dents with full priviledges on the council be sent to the Board of Trustees for approval was passed on a roll call vote at the regular SLC meeting Monday, Nov. 23. 
The recommendation must be approved by the Trustees according to the resolution forming the SLC in 1968. The resolution says there shall be eight representatives apiece from the faculty, students and admin­istration and that the chair does not have the authority to in­crease the body's size or change its composition. 
The motion passed by a I 0-6 vote with two abstentions after more than an hour's debate whether or not the actions of the SLC are relevant to the graduate students. 
Graduate student representa­tive Rich Humbrecht said the question of relevance results from an attitude that graduate students are not interested in the life and concerns of the campus but in "booking it." 
Last spring, when the grad­uate students requested seats, they were asked to present a petition indicating some areas in which the SLC could help them. They submitted a seven point petition to a committee to revise the by-Jaws. The committee recommended they be given four seats with speaking priviledges only for the remainder of the semester with a re-evaluation at the end. 
A proposal to give the gradu­ate students three seats, students nine seast and the faculty and administration six seats apiece was defeated last May. A second motion to augment the counci-l 

An Tostal, Derby conflict 
by Job Higgins 
The Hall President's Council met last night and decided to hold An Tostal on the weekend of May 1, despite the conflict with the Kentucky Derby, the annual spring colegiate attrac­tion held in Louisville on the first Saturday of every May. 
Because of the brevity of this year's spring semester, An Tostal had to take place on either the weekend of April 24th or May I. Since the former conflicted with the annual Blue-Gold spring football game and it was gener­ally agreed that only a small percentage of Notre Dame and St. Mary's students attend the Derby, the latter was decided upon. An actual vote was not taken since there was no quorum present. 
The student government's allottment of $3000 to the HPC was also discussed and it was concluded that $1700 should be appropriated for An Tostal and the remaining $1300 given to individual halls upon receipt of an official request from the respective presidents. A three man board chaired by Fritz Hoefer, Executive_ Coordinator of the HPC, will review the requests and appropriate the money accordingly. 

HPC Chairman John Barkett announced next Thursdays Con­stitutional Referendum and commented, "I think it (the new Constitution) has a lot of faults in it myself; there are a lot of things I thought they should have fixed but they didn't". He saw the main issue of the refer­endum as the abolition of the Senate. 
In other business, Chairman Barkett announced that the Hall Life Board will review each hall's constitution during ·the Christ­mas break, and possibly make recomendations where neces­sary. The Presidents also laid plans for a number of Project Head start Christmas parties, which are under the supervision 
of Dave Lah. Lah emphasized that if members of the hall treat these parties as hall projects it will offset the difficulties of their taking place during the final exam week. He assured the presidents that the cause was a "very enjoyable and worthwhile one." 
by three seats was passed but on May 25 it was recinded and subsequently defeated. 
According to Humbrecht, who served as a representative during the trial period, he, then chairman James L. Massey and Prof. John Houck were dele­gated by proposal to meet with Graduate School Assistant Dean Rev. William Botzum, C.S.C. to "hash out" the arguments over the summer. 
On August 13 Massey sent a Jetter to University Provost Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. The 
Jetter said he, (Mass ), Houck 
and Rev. James L. Shilts, C.S.C., 
an SLC member, had met that 
day and concluded that the 
"special status" of graduate stu­
dents prevented their effective 
representation on any existing 
bodies. 
The three recommended a new body, the Graduate Student Affairs Committee consisting of five graudate students, an appointee from the Vice Presi­dents for Student and Business Affairs, an appointee from the Dean of the Graduate school and two faculty members from and elected by the Graduate Council. The GSAC would be a "problem solving and communications group" occasionally suggesting legislation to the "appropriate bodies," according to Massey's

letter: ·~­Massey also suggested that Fr. Burtchaell get in touch with the heads of the Graduate Student Union, Law Student Association and the MBA Association "to get their views on how the grad­uate and professional student members should be chosen." GSU President Bill Lorimer said neither he nor any other graduate student, graduate busi­ness of law student was aware of the recommendation at the time. He added that the same situation developed when the Provost sent a copy of Massey's letter to Rev. Botzum asking the associate dean to organize and chair the GSAC. In his letter to Fr. Botzum, the Provost said his intention was "not to create a new formal body, but to gather enough of the right people around the same table once in awhile so that we will remain aware of problems 
Fr. James Burtchaell 
and take action to solve them." 
Fr. Burtchaell named Fr. Shilts to represent Student Aflairs, Fr. Botzum to speak for the Graduate School and Brother Kieran Ryan, C.S.C., as the Business School representa­tive in his letter. It was left to Rev. Botzum to "assemble" the graduate students. 
Lorimer said the GSU would prefer to sit on the SLC for various reasons. Among the reasons was a reply Lorimer claimed to have received from Fr. Burtchaell that the graduate students would have no power on the GSAC. The presentation of the GSAC without consulting 

the graduate students was also among the reasons. Lorimer itlso gave positive reasons for sitting on the SLC. He said graduate student experi­ence as undergraduates at a wide variety of schools, "some more complex" than Notre Dame, is "very important and this exper­ience is not beign tapped." Stu­dent representative Tom Shoaf added that the faculty provtde another viewpoint without directly benefiting from SLC action and the graduate students should be considered from the same point of view. Topics discussed by the SLC, such as security and the use of campus facilities are topics rele­vant to graduate students and undergraduates according to Lorimer. Humbrecht added that the SLC is "supposedly repre­senting" the major bodies of the 
Fr. Thomas Blantz 
University. The graduate student body is becoming more con­cerned with campus life, Univer­sity policy and in "contributing rather than benefiting" from the SLC, Hunbrecht said. He called the graduate Student body a "fourth major body" deserving representation. 
Vice President for Student Affairs Rev. Thomas E. Blantz, 
C.S.C. voiced approval of a GSAC type body because some problems "overlap" the two stu­dent bodies while others are 

-peculiar to each. He said the SLC is designed to handle what­ever comes under the authority of his office. Some of the things 
that do not come under his 
jurisdiction are the graduate school, the University Village and the appointment of staffs for Bronson and Lewis Halls. Overlapping problems include parking, security, the use of campus facilities and dormitory considerations. 
"Many concerns do not fall directly under me and I'm not sure I want overall coverage," Fr. Blantz said. 
Lorimer disagreed with the vice president saying there is a terrific "terriffic overprolifera­tion" of bodies on campus. "The graduate students are in a pro­cedural limbo and powerless committees such as the GSAC will not rectify problems," con­tinued Lorimer. He said the graduate students would not im­prove and become a "part of Notre Dame" if they are passed from office to office. 

Dr. Scott to speak today
Professor Joseph W. Scott Chairman of Notre Dame's Black Pm in the Library Auditorium. Studies Program, will be today's The public is invited, free of 
speaker in the Air Force Lecture charge. Series, it was announced yester-Dr. Scott received his B.S. in day by Professor of Aerospace sociolo_gy '.cum laude from Cent­Studies Col. Augustine s. Puch-raJ M1ch1gan University. He rik. Dr. Scott's lecture, entitled earned his master's and doctoral "Black Studies in America," will degrees, both also in sociology be presented Tuesday at 4:30 from Indiana University. 
Page 2 



STUDENT 
A look at SUA C's fuctions
BASKETBALL 
by Tom Degnan orium, Stepan Center, Washing­ton Hall, and the Engineering

L
TICKETS 
Four years ago when Student 
Auditorium, speakers are now
Body President Chris Murphy 
able to use O'Laughlin, CarrollStudents wilo purchased season basketball tickets 
I
first realized a need for a student 
Hall, and The Little Theatre. 

may pick: tilem up at the Box Office, second floor 
union, one of his main interests 
The commission staff is com­of tile Athletic and Convocation Center on any of 
was in forming a commission to 
prised of between 25 and 30the following days: 
coordinate the procurement of 
members whose responsibility it 
speakers for the Notre Dame 
is to write letters to the variousTuesday, December 1 
campus. Today, the combined 
speakers and speaker's agencies.
Wednesday, December 2 
ND-SMC Academic Commission 
Nearly 250 letters have beenThursday, December 3 
is the largest financial concern of 
sent out this year attempting to 
the Student Union, using its 
obtain speakers. About 80 
$23,000 budget to bring
Upperclassmen, Grad Students, Lawyers and speakers will be brought.
speakers to Notre Dame of such
Married Students must present the receipt issued No salaries are paid to mem­
notoriety as Senator George 
bers of t.he academic commis­w!Jen t!ll! ticket was paid for at our Ticket Office. 
McGovern, author Aurthur 
sion. The $23,000 allotment is
Clark, and actress Jane Fonda. 
derived from three main sources.
Freshmen, who ordered by mail, must present their 
The combined commission, 
The bulk of the budget,
headed by co-commissioners Jim 
ID cards. 
$19,000, is allotted by the Stu­
Metzger and Missy Underman, is 
dent Senate, with anotherIMPORTANT NOTE: Student ticket orders have 
an experiment initiated this year 
Jim Metzger $1,500 provided by the Student

aimed at consolidating the two
already been assigned and filled by class priority. 
Services of St. Mary's. The re­
school's speakers programs. In
Hence, day or time of day the ticket is called for campus alone. The present co­maining $2,500 is donated
the past, the present commis­
operative system has resultedwill ha11e no bearing on seat location. 
through interdepartmental spon­
sion's predecessor, The Student 
not only in a more extensive sorships. Speaker's fees which
Union Academic Commission,
Box Office is open from nine to five, including the speakers program for both cam­range from $300 to $1,000 con­
worked almost independently of 
puses but also a reduction of the sume the main part of the aca­noon hour. 
the academic activities branch of 
strain on the NO speaker's facili­demic commission's allocation.
DONALD E. BOUFFAR!l,JR. 
St. Mary's Student Services, 
ties. Besides the Library Audit-According to Metzger, theTicket Manager' 
bringing speakers to the NO 
normal speaker's fee is about----~--------------1· $500. Defeated California poli­
't------URBAN STUDIES 
A tician Jesse Unruh and actress ' Jane Fonda both cost $1,000.f Besides paid speakers, the aca­
', I N FORM ATI 0 N ', ~;:~ersc~i~:i~~~~~d ~~oLo~:!~ 
stein and Sen. George McGovern who wish to speak for free. The
t t 
commission incurs the expenses 
of advertisements and handbillsd I C dlt t that are circulated about both 
t 
t 
t. c:ommunlty Service for Aca em c re STYLE #1191 campuses. t The distinguished speakers 
t 
A new concept in ring design series is probably the best t Double MaJor In Urban Studies t ~~:~ae~~~!sa~!~:~~o~~t known of the series sponsored of their brilliance. Modern as by the ND-SMC commission.
t tomorrow, so why not come in Other programs put on by the Certificate In Urban Stud... today? By-GQLD commission include: a drug con­
t t 
ference, an environment series, a t t "MASTE~ seiies of poetry readings, an ur~ 
ban affairs and urban studiest t Priced from $150 program, and an Arian studies
RocKNE MEMORIAL 
series. Plans for next semester
t ' 
call for the inclusion of a seriest t ~ d on education and a program on
t eL.Jiamon .the American workingman with t TIUESDAy AND WEDNESDAY t -~~i;;n~.h~~:.on 
the "hard hat" 
t t ortComnan Another innovation this year r is the hall speakers program. The Seen by appointment academic commiSSIOn is en-t A DECEMBER I and 2 t t THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS deavoring to bring speakers into 
t 
' ' SUITE 602 ST. JOS£PH BANK BUILDING the VariOUS halls before and after 46601! SOUTH BEND, INDIANA their main presentations. 
• .____--LWlJ~~~~=----J. One of the main complaints
JA~-~-~:-~~-~-:.:-~-~-~~-~..:-~~-~-~~-~~-~~-~~-~~-~~-~~~~:::~-::~-~:..:-~~-~~-~:...::-=-IFiirurV:!JeeC"c.:-zf~:Jl[Jjipiilmil--llodged against the academicand commission recently has been 
Stepan Center, Tickets $3.00 the so called bias in its speaker's 
RARE EARTH 
BLOOD· ROCK Student Union Ticket Office program this year. Critics of the 1nd Dining Halls commission claim that the num­ber of liberal speakers far out­weigh the number of conserva­tives invited to the campus. Sighting Sen. McGovern and David Hawk as examples of speakers presenting a liberal point of view, the critics of the program have asked that a more balanced adgenda be presented. Metzger, in terming the criticism "not very knowledgeable" ans­wered these charges saying: "I just wish these people would wait and see about the whole year. Our program on the whole 
(Continued on page 8) 

.l ..., 

Lost -One NO Class Ring initials DGK '71 Call Dan at 282-1529  
The Observer Is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Ob­server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.  


Page 3

Tuesday, December 1, 1970 7118 OBSERUI1t 

by~"~.£ tightens security 
In an effort to bolster their occasionally shaky security system, St. Mary's College has introduced three major innova­tions for this year's security. 
At the beginning of the school year, Sr. Immaculata, dean of students, introduced many inno­vations in an effort to improve the system. These included wiring two of the halls with alarms and intensifying patrol of the halls. The effectiveness of these changes will be evaluated at a meeting of administrative and security force representa­tives Dec. 18. 
for the meeting, each of the 
.all directors, security guards and the dean of students pre­pared reports evaluating the pre­sent policies. Although these re­ports are confidential, interviews with several members of the panel indicate that they are generally pleased with the changes. 
Regina Hall, primarily a fresh­men and sophomore dormitory, has concentrated on solving the problem of excessive "bolting." ("Bolting" is leaving or entering the dorm after its closing with­out permission.) 
The hall sporadically uses its new alarm which is wired for every door except the main one as a check on residents. 
To stymie the problem, the hall council is also conducting unannounced bed checks. "Stu­dents not in their rooms or signed out will be brought be­fore the campus judiciary," com­mented Laura Bayer, hall presi­dent. One member of the coun­cil termed the system effective especially on football weekends with as many as six girls being reported. 
LeMans Hall has also at­
tempted to solve its security 
problems with student aid. 
"At the beginning of the year, 
here were some incidents where 
people walked upstairs into the 
rooms," recounted Margaret 
Canwell, hall president. "We 
were forced to lock the door 
leading to the library. This 
meant that girls had to walk 
around the building which was 
also hazardous since one girl got 
attacked," she wntinued. 
"So, Sr. Immaculata said that 
we could keep the door open as 
long as we had a student guard 
at the door." She reported that 
every girl will have a turn at the 
desk. 

Wiring McCandless Hall with 
CHICAGO 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500• ZIP: 60611 
Sales tax where applicable 
an alarm system has curtailed In Holy Cross Hall, "security that hall's difficulties. "We have is pretty good," said Kathy Mur­recently started locking the tw.o phy, hall representative. In Sep­doors at six o'clock in the tember, student complaints evening. Kids used to use them prompted the firing of one guard and then leave them open which for sleeping and admitting stu­was risky," commented Jane dents after dorm closing without Sheehy, hall president. their identification cards. 
• HOY • HOY • HO~ • HOY • HOV • HUV • HOV • HOV • HOV • HOV • HOY • HuV ~ 
H H 
0 0 
y y
·. 
HH 

0 y 
0 
y· 

H 
H• 0 
0 y y 
H SOUTH BEND-THE SHERLAND BUILDING. 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET H' 
: Jlouse ofVisioli a :, 
o The House of Vision, Inc. o 
y ~ 
• HOV • HOY • HOY • HOY • HOV • HOV • HIW • HOV ,. Hf\V • HOV • HOV • HOY • 

GRAPHICS 
AN EXHIBITION &SALE 
presented by
a 

LONDON GRAFICA ARTS 
a member of the 
1 

London Arts Group 
More than 400 original etchings, lithographs, woodcuts, and screenprints including works by: CALDER, CHAGALL, PICASSO, VASARELY, REMBRANDT and LONDON ARTS' PUBLICATIONS originals from $10 to $4000 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Art Gallery, O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Tuesday -December 1, 1970 10 a.m. -4 p.m. 


Trust love. 

THE ST.ROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226 



THE OBSERVER 

Freshman Farce 
Atter more than the customary amount of agony, what was either the Freshman Class Elections or a spectacularly inept replay of the comic classic "Who's on First?" is apparently done with. No one will ever know who would have won the election had it been conducted honestly and competently by the Sophomore Class, and, to judge by both the number of people voting in the election and the response of this campus in general towards class government, no one will ever care. 
Nevertheless, for the sake of those few who do contend for the prize such as it is, and for the sake of those few who do take the offices and an' their pomps seriously, the Sophomore Class owed the Freshman Class a fairly-run election. They didn't deliver. 
In Sorin Hall, zero votes were collected and counted. Holy Cross' box was "missing" for twenty-seven hours after the polls closed. In Alumni and Grace, ballot boxes weren't available until dinnertime. In Morrisey, the ballot boxes weren't available until after dinner. The stupidity affected 
about four hundred and fifty potential votes. The election was decided by fourty-eight votes. 
The whole shabby show walked a tightrope between the tragic and ridiculous. Were the offices of any major importance, the subsequent outrage on campus would probably have been sufficient to impeach those responsi­ble. We suggest that the Sophomore Class Government keep this in mind the next time they are saddled with an equivilent responsibility. 
Letter
Travesty taste and totally lacking in the 
from further injuring _their con­respect and reverence due to ecclesiastical authority and par­moral giants, and prevent them 
Editor: temporaries, the great artists of ticularly to the Bishop of theIn a light hearted, merry, the past, and most of all, them­
frivolous, and viscerally abomi­selves. To Mr. Wolfe and all diocese in which Notre Dame nable travesty of journalistic those visionaries at The Obser­University is located. license Chris WoUe has succeed­ver, who evidently espouse the In publishing in Our Sunday ed in defiling the memory and of non-talent Visitor his letter of protest
parade that 
heritage of Jonathan Swift in a against tne s<.:anuewus uraae ot
frequently graces that publica­cheap and gutter-bred parody of tion, my only wish is that the Ti Grace Atkinson against Our A Modest Proposal, unsettling an fires of your beleaguered minds Lady, the Blessed Mother of Our 
Lord, Bishop Pursley was only
already unfortunate midday re­may be quenched in the inimit­past, coining a s1~rie~ of allitera­able style of Swift's immortal doing his duty. Indeed, in speak­
• tive profundities to the level of ing out against such outrageous
folk hero. 
which even the most Agnew~­Sincerely, action Bishop Pursley was worthy phrases do not fall, and expressing the moral indignation 
Robert Syburg
rather than satirizing, as I cer­of virtually the whole Notre
231 Fisher 
tainly hope was his ~ntent, those Dame community: students, who are too much the dis­faculty, parents and alumni. We passionate ones in the abortion are grateful for his prompt and
Father O'Brien's lament
feud, he succeeded only in re­vigorous action and we apologize vealing the reactionary, stub­for the scurrilous attack upon born, and unscrupulous psuedo­him. '* 
Editor:
moralist that he really is. Rev. John A. O'Brien, Ph. D. 
I deeply regret the publication 
Rather than another Chris 
of the article, "Bishop Parsley's 
Wolfe, recently appraised at a 
lament," by Ed Ellis in The
good deal less than $.05, what 
Observer. Flippant and scur­
this world needs is factual host 
rilous, it was in exceedingly bad
of Lilliputians to carry off such 
• 
l"t OME..'f .J ~'L.L. 8~ LAT£. FoR l>I..,NER... Tb~ITE.. \.!.)£... ~S I MA']) E:. A-1\) A-ttQ.E.sr ~J> w~'R.t-G-o~NA 
KE:..\J I E.~ I 

Linus Sidrys 

''Give me those ••• 
•

yearn1ng to Breathe Free'' 
On Nov. 25, the United States government denied political asylum to a Lithuanian crewman from a Russian fishing factory ship. The Russian ship was alongside the American Coast Guard vessel (ironically misnamed the Vigilant) for a conference on fishing rights off the Massachusetts coast, when the Lithuanian radio operator jumped to the American ship. After eight hours of negotiations, in which the Vigilant's captain was in frequent contact with the head of the Coast Guard and the State Department, it was decided to return the refugee to the Russians. 
The President of the Seafood Products Association, a Mr. 
Brieze, reported that the Lithuanian said he would not return to 
the Russian ship, unless it was by force; undoubtedly knowing 
the fatal consequences of his return. After the political defector 
was denied American help, he was beaten and bound by the 
Russians, within sight of the Americans. 
Our government's policy can be interestingly contrasted with 
Turkey's action toward two Baits who recently hijacked the first 
Soviet plane, killing a stewardess in the orocess.. Although guilty 
'of hijackmg ana nomJcJcte, these defectors were granted asylum 
on the grounds that their motivation was political rather than 
criminal. 

The Soviet government had put a strong pressure on the 
Turkish government in its effort, to regain the two refugees. 
Izvestia asked: "But is it in Turkey's national interest to cast 
shadows on relations with a neighboring nation for the sake of a 
criminal pseudo-Lithuanian organization which serves the C.I.A'?" 
However, Turkey, a minor power and a next-door neighbor of the 
Soviet Union, was not intimidated, and it did not return the two 
men. 

The man who jumped aboard the Vigilant injured no one. The 
event took place either in international, or in American territorial 
waters. His political situation was similar to those who break 
through the Berlin Wall. A valid justification for our government's 
action is thus incon<.:eivable. 

The only possible reason was our leaders' ignorance of the 
present political conditions existing in occupied Lithuania and 
their unwillingness to endanger the fishing rights' conference. 
Stupidity is bad, but such official materialism and moral deadness 
is unbelievable. The eight hours of subsequent negotiations leads 
one to wonder if the man was bartered in exchange for some 
Russian fishing concessions. In any case, it was a clear cut refusal 
to defend human freedom, in preference of a possible material 
gain. 

A couple of days later an East German jumped from a Russian 
ship to the safety of his brother's waiting vesseL It is unfortunate 
that the Lithuanian who made a leap of faith to the American 
ship found no brothers there. 

'aacaaaaaaacccaaacccoacaaccacaccacacaaaaacacccc 
Managing Editor: Bill Carter Associate Editors: Dave Stauf­Editorial Page Editor; T.C. fer, Sue Bury Treanor 
Knight Editor: Steve Lazar Features Editor: Dave Lam· Lay-out: Chris Johnson 
mers Headlines: Deb Carella

Sports Editor: Terry Shields Knight Controller: Jim McGrath
SMC News Editor: Jeanne Sweeney 


Dr. Peter Walshe 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:::::~:::!:~:::~ 
The future of WNDU 
Tlze following article is a commentary by Professor Peter Walshe, director ofthe African Studies Program. Prof Wa/she was born in Rhodesia, and received his doctorate at Oxford University. 
The people of South Africa, we were also told, were the most civilised on the Continent of Africa, a people made up of Boer (Dutch) and Briton, some Germans and French -the country was a melting pot comparable to the United States. Apparently it all went back to 1652 when the ancestors of modern South Africans, the first European settlers of the Dutch East India Company, arrived at the Cape 
o.f Good Hope in a manner comparable to the advent of the Mayflower in the New World. Today these people number al­most four million. W.N.D.U.'s program Wanderlust (I :30-2:00 p.m., Saturday, 27 November 1970) went on to show the country's night life, its splendid beaches, its athletic population (scenes of cricket, rugby, gymnastics and boating), ttte stockmarket ('another touch of Am.:;;'j­cana'), religious worship, sheep farms, the highly industrialised economy and cities. The early Voortrekkers had been forced to adjust from their pioneering days to a way of life 'so v:ery like our own.' There were also several scenes of peacetime manoeuvres. by the South African army, or more correctly the Active Citizen Force -men who knew how to use their modern weapons and were prepared at a moments notice to defend their country. The commentator went on to remind us that 'the Af1icans fought on the side of the allies in the last great conflict' and were ready to do so again. The half hour had given us a 'pretty good idea of life in general and of the people in particular.' From the early days of the 17th century it had been an adventure which was still going on. 
There was not one occasion when the program showed a black face, neither was · there mention of the great majority of 
· South Africans-the twelve million black Africans, two million Coloureds (people of mixed origin) and half million Asiatics. South Africa had been projected as a white society, tranquil, heroic and reli­gious. There was no reference to the increasingly rigid pattern of racial dis.­crimination or apartheid, no hint that the flourishing white world rested heavily upon the shoulders of a tragically ex­plaited black labour force, dragooned and repressed by the ruthless power of a police state backed up by an army geared to internal defense. The majority in every South African city is black; for every white labourer in the mines there are seven blacks; for every white labourer in manufacturing industry there are two blacks. While night clubs, gay beach scenes and military power flashed across the screen, 
there was not the faintest suggestion that apartheid means broken families (a black husband and wife have no right to live together in South Africa), severely limited educational opportunity, legalised job discrimination and the denial of basic civil liberties to millions of South Afri­cans. It was as if one had documented the life of the anti-bellum Southern States carefully recording the social graces and economic well-being of affluent whites, 
without at any point alluding to the institution of slavery. 
The reality of South Africa is a boom­ing, racially integrated economy within which the colour bar is rigorously applied in the defence of a white elite. That elite is in turn dominated by Afrikaners of predominately Dutch descent, heroic in the historic defence of their own in­terests, tragic in their refusal to apply Christianity across colour lines and to adapt their values to modern reality. White supremacy within the Republic is the publically declared aim of the coun­try's leaders and its highest moral prin­ciple. This implies, of course, a serious state of decaying Christianity amongst white South Africa and the Dutch Re­formed Churches in particular. Through­out the last four centuries, there has been a strong tendency within these Churches to focus on the Old Testament -the chosen people -and to use the termi­nology of this section of the Bible to 
SMC presents 'The Hostage' 

What's the inside of Washington Hall doing looking like the inside of a Dublin boarding house? If you're interested try asking Roger Kenvin. But it's nothing to get alarmed about. It's only the second production of the 1970-71 season for the ND-SMC Drama Department; The Hos­tage by Brendan Behan. The play is a loud funny comedy full of song and dance, irrepressible Irish wit, and the equally irrepressible Irish thirst. The ac­tion centers around a young English soldier who is being held hostage in the 
"boarding" house in reprisal for a young Irish soldier who is to be hanged in the 
: Apologies : : Overdue : 
e Dr. DeSIIIIfis e 
Dr. DeSantis, the chairman of • the history department, would • • like me to clarify a sentence in a • • column I wrote in the November • 
20th issue, entitled "Academic • 
• 
Freedom". The column concern­• ed the dismissals of three history • 

• 
professors. The following two • 


sentences require -clarification: • • 
"It is to the great detriment of • Dr. DeSantis, the head of the • 
• 
history department, that no • reasons were given to these men • 

• 
for their dismissals. A tersely • worded letter that says "we • • don't want you any more" is not • • a proper explanation after five • 


morning. During the course of the play the audience is introduced to the inhabi­tants of the house and the parade rather resembles an Irish Walpurgis night; a nearly married couple who alternate be­tween affection and violent argument, a daft old soldier who believes he is still fighting the war of 1916, a mousey old civil servant who stole some money from Holy Mother Church, his salvation a fanatical religious type who gets drunk, some halfway men and several "brassti­tutes": Though the play does have a serious subject at heart, Behan lets his characters expose all the faults and hy­pocrisies of man. He does so with ama­zing insight and humor. 
The Hostage is directed by Dr. Roger Kenvin and can be seen in Washington Hall on December 4,5,6,10,11,12. Rich-

A typical NO student after exa'ms 
The next seventeen days will. surely go down in Notre Dame's history as the 
years of teaching. Dr. DeSantis .• "days of paranoia," as term papers, re­
• 
would like it to be made clear search projects, take home tests, ana 

• 
that the words that appear inside • exams stack up one on top of the other. 

• 
quotation marks are not a quote • Darwin, were he to return to Notre Dame 

of him or of any letter from the 

• 
history department. 


• •ra-t. .......~• 
• r "" 1W .,.,.~ 
Frank Miklavcic was the au­
• 
thor of the article "<;;ayersville: 

• 
A look at poverty" which ap­

• 
pea red in the November 20th 

• 
edition. Somehow, Clare Wey's 

name appeared above the article, • 

• 
though she had not written it. • Again, my apologies to Mr. • • Miklavcic. • 


David Lammers • 
• 
• 
now, would find the survival of the fittest in full swing, as physical and mental 

• 
capacities are tested·to the fullest. 


• • 
• • • 
The Observer Phantom steathily 
recorded the following scene yesterday 
afternoon. Dan and Mike are two Notre 
Dame freshmen living in Flanner Tower. 
Dan, in liberal arts, has just returned from 
lunch to find his roommate, Mike, who is 
in pre-medical studies, chewing on his 
slide rule. 
"Mike, what are you doing!? Your're 
ruining your new forty dollar slide rule 
your Mom bought you! Didn't you have 
~unch?" 
"Shaaadup, will you for once? I'm 
ard Bergman is the set designer; Jane Shanabarger is responsible for the cos­tumes; Tom Doyle served as music direc­tor, the jigs and reels were choreographed by Janetta McNamara. Tom Broderick was stage manager. 
The cast includes Nori Wright as Meg, Jimmy Boland as Pat, Nancy Barto­shevsky as Teresa, George Moore as Les­lie. Also seen are Marc Genera as Mul­leady, Beth Griffith as Miss Gilchrist, Robert Ros~as Monsewer and John Paul Duffy as Princess Grace. The rest of the cast consists of Mark Swiney, Chris Egan, Grace Hartigan, Chris Hayward, Jean Marie Meier, Mark O'Connell and Tom Petray . 
For season subscriptions, reservations or ticket information, call 284-4176 be­twee 9-5. 

defend already established social and eco­nomic interests and to bolster racial prejudice. 
To show such a ·program without com­ment on W.N.D.U. is to degrade the University of Notre Dame. It is an insult to black South Africans, to the peoples of Africa, to black Americans and, I believe, to the efforts of the United States Civil Rights Commission and its Chairman the Rev. T. Hesburgh, C.S.C. South Afri~a is no ordinary country. Its policies are destroying the cultural, social and politi­
cal lives of millions of people and they touch the exposed nerve of racial sensi­bilities throughout the world. 
Such an event raises at least two issues: 
(i) the need for television time to provide a more broad±y based view of South Africa; (ii) the need to re-examine the function of W.N.D.U. as part of the University. On this latter point one is prompted to ask whether the University is not failing in some culpable way in its basic calling -the pursuit of truth ­when so powerful a medium as its own television station is apparently orientated to commercial gain, heavily conditioned by the program demands of its advertisers and prepared to show a program such as that described above, simply to encourage Americans to spend their dollars in the interests of the travel industry. Moreover the product being advertised in this case is strictly for whites only which in turn raises some interesting issues. 

Seventeen days before Christmas 
figuring out how I'm going to get my 
work done for the next two weeks. J.esus, I've got a term paper in philosophy on Buddhist meditation due Friday, a twenty page history paper on Churchill's history of the Second World War, two calculus quizzes, two Emil T. chemistry quizzes, and a synthesis of Greek and British poetry for English." 
"Boy, Mike, you've got more work than just about anyone I've talked to. Do you think you can make it?'' 
"I've got to. If I get an A on my history paper, I can get a B-there, and if I ace the Emil T. final and the two quizzes I can pull a B there, and if I hold my A's is Calculus and English, and pull some­thing out for Philosophy of Man, I may have a chance to get into med school." 
(Mike calculates his PGPA-predicted grade point average-as Dan settles down on his bed.) 
"Hey, Mike, what's that .big bag in your locker?'' 
"Fifty pounds of coffee I got whole­sale. Hey, don't use-the phone· today, Dan, 0.K.? I've got fifty tabs of speed on order, and the guy is gonna call me this afternoon about it." 
"Oh, O.K. Your gonna pull a few all nighters, I guess, huh, Mike?" 
"Yeah. Eight. One all nighter for each subject before exams, two for the cal­culus exam, and three for the other four 
exams. l got it all planned out. If I eat one meai a day and take one· shower a week, I figure I can double my potential study time. I got my whole schedule planned out on these seventeen sheets of graph paper here. One sheet for each day left. 
"Golly, Mike, I just hope you don't overdue it and ruin your health or your eyes or something. Maybe you should plan on taking a break next week. Do you wanna go to the basketball game next week? The whole section is going....? 
"That would throw my schedule off.'' 
"Well, golly, if there's anything or any way I can help you, Mike, just let me know, O.K.? After all, we are roommates and all." 
"Right. Just three things. First, don't tell any of the guys in pre-med that I'm studying this hard, 'cause then they'll work harder and ruin my predicted Class Curve. Sfcond, lock the door all the time so nobody can come in and filch my speed or ask .m~ questions. Third, don't talk to me till after exams. Got it?" 
"Boy, Mike, you are really serious about this, aren't you? Well, maybe then after exams are over we can go to Chicago and relax and go to a hockey game or something." 
"Thanks, but no thanks. I've got to get home right away and start work so I can pay next semester's tuition. If l don't make four hundred bucks over vacation I'll have to tr.msfer to State. I don't want to do that unless I have to, because you get such a damn good education at Notre Dame." 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Page 6 THE OBSZRIIM. Tuesday, December 1, 1970 
Pre-Law Society -University 
of Virginia School of Law, Char­lottesville, Virginia -Prof. Speiedel is scheduling interviews 
for prospective students on Thurs­
day, December 3, 1970 -Signups 
outside 101 O'Shaughnessy ­
Check outside 205 Business Bldg.· 
for exact location 
Crypt 
Discount 
Records 
Now on Stock: Stephen Stills Three Dog Night 
Doors Jefferson Starship Jefferson Airplane Jesus Christ Superstar 
Grateful Dead 
Fiesta Lounge La Fortune Hours 2-5" Tapes on Order 
Irish open with improved U of M 
by Terry Shields American Rudy Tomjanuvich breaking lanes. Last season Ford That person will have to stop the Observer Sports Editor but they are hopeful of improv-hit for 14.5 per game and Fife man who may well be the lead­
Tonight marks the beginning ing on last season's I 0-14 record. tallyed 13.2 per contest. ing scorer in the nation this of the impossible task facing The Wolves use a fast breaking Ken Brady is the big man on season, Austin Carr. Johnny Dee and his Fighting offense and a double post when the Wolves team. He is 6'1" and Carr, who hit fur over 38 ppg. Irish cagers. The impossible task the break is not available. is counted on to supply the last year, has looked fine in is the tremendous schedule that The key men in the U of M major rebounding strength. He is pre-season inter-squad games and stares Dee directly in his Irish attack are captain Dan Fife, a a sophomore. there is no reason to think that mug. Number one task is the 6'2" guard who runs the middle Other Starters are soph Henry he will do any worse this year. University of Michigan Wolver-of the break and Rodney Ford, a Wilmore and Wayne Grabiec. Austin is not alone in his ines. 6'4" forward with great speed Wilmore is a potential powder impressive pre-season play. 1. 
The Wolverines have lost All-enabling him to fill in one of the keg. As a freshman, the 6'4" Collis Jones is back underneath 
-~~~~~~~~~~---~~.._..~~ 
leaper hit 23.1 points per game. providing ND with a great 1-2 Garviec, a senior, is a steady scoring punch. Jones can score
' Hair Styling ' 
type performer and he has great from under or from the corner.
f for ND men the Continel'}tal Way f 
size for a guard at 6'5". Ernie Jack Neehan has a greatf Razor Cutting & · Style f Johnson, 6'8" soph, provides chance to lead the nation inf European layer Shaping for long Hair f backup strength underneath. assists because he has an un­
Overall the Wolverines are canny knack of getting the ball Have Long Hair & Let Miss Treva & The Baron f looking for an improved board 
to either Austin or Collis. He Be Well Groomed Serve & Pamper Y au game over last season and a will direct the Irish attack. better defensive game. The These three are the only cer­Wolves play a man for man tain "official starters" in
I' 306 S~·~··d I
Bldg. 
defense. tonights game for the Irish be­
& South Bend, Ind. Student Rates f Someone on "Michigan's squad cause Dee uses what he calls a ' 234-0811 "seven man starting unit." Sid
better be a super defensive play­a er if U of M is to win this one. C.atlett and John Pleick are
-· 



--~~--dependable centers and Catlett can also play forward. Tom Sinnott is the swing man on the team. He, plays either guard or forward depending on the situa­tion. He possesses a deadly out­side shot if he gets a second to 
Collegiate Diamond Importers 
present 
shoot. 
• 
• 

Doug Gemmell is the only non-senior in the starting seven. The 6'3" junior uses his fantastic jumping ability piUs quickness 
and an accurate corner shot to 
keep in the starting u·nit. The game will be a match of two similar teams. Both like to

~-Iamon 
run and both use a double post offense. The Irish version differs a little in that it is a double post offense. The Irish version differs
at the 
a little in that it is a double stack. The Wolverines may have a slight edge on the boards.
NOTRE DAME 

The difference of the two can be summed up in two words, Austin Carr. U of M doesn't have
UNIVERSITY BOOKSTORE 
that super-star to work to and this could prove to be the decid­ing factor in this evening's game. The Irish will probably go to Carr as much as they did at the 
Wed., Dec. 2 &Thurs., Dec. 3 
10:00 AM-4:00 PM 
end of last season, which is to say, every opportunity possible. 
The key for Michigan is to keep Carr within limits and to 
The CD/ National Diamond 
Consultant will personally assist with CDI diamonds 
stop the rest of the Irish attack you in choosing your engagement COl 
as well as possible. The Irish must go to the boards with
ring and other diamond jewelry. 
sary middleman profits. The cost of your dia­
authority if they want to assure 
a victory. mond: marquise, round, pearshape, emerald, of a jewelry store. Every COl diamond is fully 
He'll help you choose your own loose dia­mond does not help pay the plush expenses 
A large crowd is expected in the 13,609 seat Crisler Arena in Ann Arbnr Tipoff i~ 8:00 p.m. 
oval or any other popular shape. Then you'll guaranteed, by certificate. Full refund within 
s'elect your individual mounting to create a 15 days if you are not completely satisfied. unique diamond ring that is truly "yours 
Ask for your FREE copy of "The Romance of alone". 
Swimming team

the Diamond"... a 32-page booklet about the history, romance and crafting of diamonds; it includes tips on how to choose and care for 
neecls timers 
your diamond. 

Notre Dame took another step toward co-education this week. The newest of the moves to closer co-operation concerns none other than the Notre Dame swimming team. 
Coach Dennis Stark announ­ced that any St. Mary's girl interested in becoming a timer 
bonus offer 

When you purchase any CDI engagement 
for the Irish splashers should call 
ring, you'll receive a 50% reduction 
him at his office ( 63 20) between 
on your choice of a set of complimentary 
4-6 p.m. Monday thru Thurs­

day.
matching gold wedding bands. 
Value up to $125! 
To: Mr. H.W. l'Enfant: 
"Just wait until we play at lzome."

ilVDiamond Jewelry 

Section I Law Scl.ool, L.S.U. 



Notre Dame lost a football game 
JIM MURRAY 
@ 1970, Los Anwtes nmes 
Shamrock,s A Weed 
Well, now, 'tis God's holy will, surely? Didn't he send the rain, after all? The shamrock is just a weed, there has never been a leprechaun 
seen west of County Cork. Put them all together, they spell "Trojan." T-r-double-o-jay -jay-an spels Troo-jan! 
Put the cork back in the keg. Turn off the fire under the corned beef and cabbage. Save the old Gipper for the Cotton Bowl. He couldn't even play for a tie Saturday. Trojans 38, Irish 28. 
The Luck o' the Irish? Go tell it to Sweeney. It's as phony as the banshees, as empty as an Englishman's promise. 
Examine your conscience and tell us why Irish eyes should be smiling. Like a mom in spring, is it? When you get beat by a goal-line fumble-the OTHER GUYS' FUMBLE-it's time to as_k for a look at the cards. 
When you run up 28 first downs and FIVE HUNDRED AND FIFTY-SEVEN YARDS, you're entitled to pull your first string out by the third quarter. 
Where was Johnny (One-Play) O'Brien? The Rock? The Gipper? Don't people light candles any more? Well, now, the Lord tests us, surely. . 
Consider the third quarter. The Trojans were leadi:o.g by a piddling 10 points. Not enough when we're all in the state of grace and have been kind to dumb animals and supported our local police and all. 
Now, then, how are you going to explain the following to the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick? Match this around O'Connell Street. The Trojans have the ball on the 2-yard line when a back named Mike Berry dashes into the line. He gets thrown back like a guy who gets hit by swinging doors and the ball flies out of his hands. A Trojan falls on it for a touchdown. This was at 4:25 of the third quarter. At 5:07 of the third quarter, Notre Dame sUoe Theismann fumbles on the goal line. John Vella falls on it for ANOTHER Trojan touchdown. Touchdowns like that you get in the five-and-dime store or find at the end of a rainbow. You should go promptly to Las Vegas and say "Hit me!" at the first table you come to when the cards are running like that. You should play the stock market with the rent money or the ponies on borrowed money. You now have Notre Dame 48-14 on a field that is rapidly becoming playable only by canoe. Not even the Hunchback of Notre Dame would feel at home in this quagmire, never mind the halfback. Luckily, no one drowned. Notre Dame now has not had an undefeated, untied season since back in the days when you couldn't eat meat on Friday. The Irish locker room was as quiet as a street in Athlone the morning after St. Patrick's Day. They now go to the Cotton Bowl with a limp, a nose-bleed and a rag over one eye murmuring "Yeah, but you should see the other guy!" For the Trojans, the victory could have been a shrug, one of a long string of "So-Whats?-except for the fact that Notre Dame knocked off THEIR Bowl-bound team in 1966 by St-0, an ill-advised bit of overkill that inspired the SC team to scrawl "The Irish WERE Coming" on their blackboard before the game. So the shamrock is just a three-leafed clover, rabbit food and no more. The Trojans, a team so good they can beat themselves, looked like more opportunistic than "Oops" and not at all like the "wait a minute, has anybody seen the football?" team we have come to love and expect. But, in a race, you would have to say "had all the best of the going" while you would say of Notre Dame "Badly placed going to far turn and couldn't get to the winner a! though finished full of run." For the good Fathers of Notre Dame, the will of the Lord is, as always, easy to accept. There was an old saying that Germany used to be a country not run by the military but occupied by the military and, if yousubstitute "football team" for "military," you had some idea of the quandary annual national champions put Notre Dame in. The good Fathers periodically tried to stuff the full-grown tiger hack in the shoe box it came in. The legend went that Notre Dame was founded in 1844 by Father Sorin but discovered in 1924 by Grantland Rice. But, outlined against a blue-gray October sky, Notre Dame's finest team is still the doughty band of French priests and novitiates who crossed the At!an tic in steerage, barged down the Erie Canal and portaged up the rivers of Indiana to found an institution and a game and a legend which would have baffled the Abbe Moreau when he commissioned the university from his monastery in France. Father Sorin is still the all-time quarterback and he fielded a team so solid in ecumenism that some of its glories were effected by a Norwe~an-born son a Lutherans, a broken-nosed dropout named Rockne and by a graceful if disdainful son a a Congregationalist minister, George Gipp, and was coached to within one (or two) dropped balls of the national championship by a Hugenot-Armenian, Ara Parseghian. A hunk of history goes with a Notre Dame team, a legacy of fortitude and rectitude in which the founding Fathers fought Indians, cholera, bigotry, their own Church and even the state to establish a fountainhead of learning. A great ideal which can survive real Famine, Pestilence, Destruction and Death can survive the Four Horsemen-and the loss of a game on a Saturday afternoon in a Coliseum, a place where their forbears lost a good deal more than a football game and a good deal more decisively than 38-28. And, sure, come to think of it, the heavens wept, now, didn't they? 
by Terry Shields 
Observer Sports Editor You could think up a lot of excuses why Notre Dame lost last Saturday. You could say that the pressure of the last few games finally got to the Irish and they just couldn't get "up" for this one. You could say that the absence of Larry DiNardo in the line was a psychological as well as a physical letdown to the club. Then too, you might add that it is impossible to play catch-up football in a monsoon. Yes, each and everyone of these factors can be a sufficient alibi, but the fact of the matter is simply, Notre Dame lost a football game. It was a typical Irish loss. They pulverized their opponents in the statistics department. It was ND with 537 yards to SC's 
359. The Irish had 28 first downs to the Trojan's 17. Notre Dame ran 91 plays to Southern Cal's 76. On the huge Coliseum scoreboard, however, was the only thing that people will re­member. It read 38-28. Notre Dame lost a football game. 
The loss virtually eliminates any hope for the Irish to become the National Champion for which the team had worked so hard. This is the second time that Ara Parseghian has taken his team to Los Angeles with a 9-0 mark and come away with a lump on his coaching record. This was the third time that an SC team has beaten an un­defeated, untied ND team in the season finale. 
Many USC observers felt that their team played the kind of football that they should. have been playing all season. At half­time many reporters were asking if this was the same SC team that had been pummelled the previous week by UCLA. It was. 
The Trojans can point to one statistic to prove the reason for their ten point victory. The Irish handed the ball to them eight times via the fumble or inter­ception route. SC managed to play to perfection in that depart­ment. This in itself is quite a compliment considering the abominable game conditions of the second half. 
The game started as though it may be a runaway for the Irish. Joe Theismann, who was voted the outstanding offensive player of the game, hit his receivers well on an 80-yard march and then he scrambled for a 25-yard touchdown to make it 7-0 ND. This was the last time that the Irish led in the ball game. 
Jimmy Jones put on quite a 
first quarter show once USC got 
the ball and by the end of the 
initial frame he had his mates 
staked to a 21-7 lead. In the 
first quarter Jones hit on seven 
of seven passes for 143 yards as 
he found men like Bob Chand-­
ler, Sam Dickerson, Clarence 
Davis and Charlie Scott continu­
ally in the c;lear. Davis scored the 
first two SC touchdowns on 
power sweeps after Jones passing 
had put the Trojans in striking 
range. 
The third SC score was what John McKay called "the turning point." Dickerson was running a deep pattern to his favorite cor­ner in the Coliseum end zone. Clarence Ellis was covering him as well as any receiver could be covered. Jones lofted a 45 yard born b and both Ellis and Dicker­son went for the ball. Dickerson then grabbed the ball off Ellis' shoulder pad for one of the most remarkable catches of the sea­son. 

Notre Dame came back before the half as Theismann hit John Cieszkowski with a nine yard flare. Theismann also connected with Tom Gatewood for 28 yards in this drive. Gatewood caught ten in the game giving him 77 for the season. 
The Notre Dame defense took heart after this score and they never gave another legitimate touchdown to SC. Ron Ayala did hit on a 1 9 yard field goal following Dyer's interception of Theismann. 
The third quarter is a night­mare that Irish fans won't soon forget. 
On the first offensive play of the second half Darryl! Dewan fumbled and SC recovered on the Notre Dame 17. Four plays later SC fumbled but the Trojans had the good fortune of being at the right place at the right time and tackle Pete Adams recovered Mike Berry's fumble for the fourth SC TD. 
The darkest spot of the day was fast approaching for the Irish. Lady Luck, who had been so helpful to ND in the past few games, played the cruelest of tricks. Willie Hall threw Joe T. for an 11-yard loss on one play after the kickoff then on the following down he powdered Joe and the ball popped loose in the end zone where John Vella fell on it for SC's 38th point. 
The Irish never quit even after this crushing play. Down 38-14, Theismann led his rna tes on what, for one brief but hopeful moment, looked like a miracle comeback. 
As the all-time Irish ground gainer kept racking up the yard­age and the score, it seemed that this was one of those teams that iimply refused to be beaten, no matter what the odds. The Tro­jans burst this bubble with clutch defense. 
Near the end of the third quarter Theismann found Larry Parker with a 46 yard pass. Parker broke two tackles on his way to paydirt. Larry was one of the bright spots in a gloomy afternoon. 
The last ND score came ·early in the fourth period. Theismann went in for his second TD on a tremendous one yard squirm. He was hit at scrimmage but bounced off the tackler and wiggled into the end zone. 
The remainder of the game was a ritual of frustration for the Irish. One can point to a number of plays that might be called the clincher but Willie Hall (the out­standing defensive player) made the play that killed most Irish hopes when he threw Theismann for a l 5 yard loss after a Parker reception had put the Irish in a threatening position. SC fell into a prevent defense to halt the Irish and it worked as they plucked a desperation pass by Theismann for their third inter­ception. 
Thei,smann kept coming back after all of these crushing blows and before it was all over he had passed for an unbelievable 5 24 yards, only about 40 yards short of the NCAA record held by Greg Cook. Even though Theis­mann completed 33 of 58 passes it will be hard for Joe to remem­ber anything but the four inter­ceptions that the Trojans_ stole during the long wet afternoon. 
After the game the locker rooms were a perfect contrast. John McKay said that he "knew Southern Cal was as good as Notre Dame" and that he "was proud that his men had enough pride to go out and win this satisfying victory." Still, McKay didn't feel that it made up for the disappointing season. "The Rose Bowl is always our first objective." 
In the sepulchral Irish locker it was a different story. Ara was going through the post-game press ordeal with great .reluc­tance. He stated that he "was proud of the way his team came back, but the conditions made it very difficult to play catch-up football." 
Ara may have been proud of his team but there was no way of hiding his rejection as he wiped the mud from his football cleats. There was no getting away from the matter. Notre Dame lost a football game. 



Tuesday, December 1, 1970

Page 8 

Attention Observer Staff: 
There will be a staff picture taken Wednesday afternoon at 
4:45 In the office. 
Christmas party 



Latest 1n Bells, Body-shirts, un-suits, vests Pdsters & Things ON THE MALL RY SHOPPING CENTRE (Mishawaka) NOW UNDER ONE PARACHUTE, THE GREATEST SELECTION OF JEANS & OTHER THINGS. Male Viceroy Landlubber Barnacle Bells Tads (Sizes for girls & guys) SKY KING 212 S. Michigan Across from Robertson's  
ICCO:H•e$e881·1······•....UIQII.IIIDDDDGD88,IICI MOST COMPlETE ATHlETIC STORE IN THE AREA Adidas ­Basketball, Soccer & Trac~ Shoes Northland Hockey Sticks Bauer Hockey Skat~s N.D. Jacket & Errblems T-Shirts Imprinted for any organization IDWDT ATHLDIC EQUIPMENT 817 N HILL IT 0111111110 BEND AYE a HILL I el: ~··  


I ~ 
• 
~ 
I 
i• 
l 
*Student Billing Card 
With this card, a dorm resi­
dent may make long distance calls 
with the privacy of the dorm room 
phone and get an individual bill 
once a month. 
Jlnd even take advantage of 
Direct Distance Dialing . . . the 
faster, easier way to call long 
distance. 
Your Student Billing Card is waiting (if you haven't already picked it up) at the Indiana Bell Business Office. Just ask. 
@)lndianaBen 
Union defends speakers policy 
(Continued from page 2) 
has been judged on the basis of its first two months of perform­ance. Jn both the David Hawk lecture and the McGovern ap­pearance people came up to me and said that they could procure the men for this or that night. I agreed to the lecture and made the necessary preparations." Metzger went on to say that many of the speakers are made available at the last minute and that it is not possible to draw up a balanced speakers program at the beginning of each semester. 
"We started with a long list of people that we had hoped to get at the beginning of the year," said Metzger. "We made a special effort to procure conservative speakers, but honestly, a good conservative, is hard to find. The commissioner cited a letter from the Ruth Abbott speakers agen­cy which read; "Here's a list of 5 conservatives. Sorry but that's all we could find. William F. Buckley is booked well into next year." 
Besides the biased speakers complaint, the academic com­
mission  has also  merited critic­ 
ism  for  the Ti  Grace Atkinson  
lecture.  Miss Atkinson,  a noted  

proponent for the Womens Li­beration Movement spoke to a Notre Dame audience on Octo­ber 15 on "The Church's Part in Oppressing Womanhood." In the ensuing weeks a letter from Bishop Leo A. Pursley and an editorial in Our Sunday Visitor by Monseignor James Conroy appeared, criticizing both the Academic commission's open speaker policy and an article on the lecture which appeared in 
The Observer. 
"Th'e best you can do," said Metzger concerning the incident, "is to know a person beforehand by what they write and by their credentials. Miss Atkinson wrote a not-so-controversial book on the womens' liberation and is presently doing doctorate work in philosophy at Columbia. Aside from this we try to learn from what we hear. Damaging reports from other schools re­move speakers from our lists." Metzger also complained that speak_ers often use. their address­es at Notre Dame to critize the Church, sometimes as a spring­board to the national press. He cited Miss Atkinson and Fr. James Cavanaugh as two exam­ples. 
Recently the ND-SMC aca­demic commission has faced the possibility of having its "open speaker's policy" revised by the Student Senate. A rider pro­posed by stay senator Fred Giuffrida, tacked on to the $35,000 allotment to the Stu­dent Union, specified that the academic commission had to ob­tain Senate consent before in­viting a speaker who would cost more than $300. Metzger called the amendment, which has since been repealed, "regrettable." "This amendment really shows that there was no attempt to understand what the academic commissions troubles are," said Metzger. "I think they're met­tling. The Senate never even called Missy or me before them." According to Metzger, the Senate would have had to meet once or twice a week just to consider speakers if the amendment had taken effect. 







