Conscientious objection at NO 
by Tom Hampson 

This is the last of a six part series on conscientious objection by Rich Smith, Dr. John Yoder, Tom llamp­son, and /lave Lammers. 
The avowed purpose of this series of articles was to demytholigize the C.O. position. This is a most important goal. The C.O. is not necessarily a freak or a fanatic. lie i.f a conscien­tious christian. He holds a legally recognized position. Too often people equate the conscientious objector with civil disobedience; this is completely inaccurate. To be a conscientious objector is just as legitimate a position as the soldier. Although this position has in the past led to more extreme actions for the sake of conscious, the position itself is as much a part of our system of law as the draft. 
Perhaps this path of the C.O. is not for every Christian to follow, however it is the respo~sibility of ~very membe~ of the.mystlcal body ot Chnst to consider this cou.rse. The cha~lenge ?f the peacemake~s IS not to be hght~y Ignored. Nor are 1ts conseque~ce~; m W~l _the penalty for co~scwnt10us ?bJe~tJOn was death, m WWII­~mpnsonment, and at present the C.O. IS req~ued to. do two ~ears of alternative serv1ce.. !he. difference between these penaht1es IS the result of more and more men considering the alternative. It has progressed be~ause the government could not fall to recognize the willingness of sincere Christians to investigate the more difficult implications of the gospel and having done so attempt to live the~. 
It 1s an unfortunate fact that at th1s university to pursue this path of C.O. is extremely difficult. Information and a sympathetic ear are not readily available. To remedy this situation a club is being formed at this university. 
The Club will attempt to consider 
both the pers~nal anu 1ega1 aspects ot 
the C.O. Sl~u.atJOn. 
The decisiOn to apply for a C.O. for the Notre D~me s~udent has typ~cal~y been one ~f 1sol~h~n. (An exe~c1se m con~emplat10n. w1t~m the ~on~mes of ones room, w1th ht~le reahzat10~ t~at there are oth~rs trymg to fmd s1~1lar answers.) Th1~ .awareness I beheve could be benef1c1al to the student who believes his search is singular. The C.O. club hopes to faci.litate. this discovery. Notre Dame clmms Itself to be a Christian community, certainly a major portion of this familial concern should be to provide information and su~p~rt for ~ny important decision. 
Th1s IS espeCially relevant for C.O., since it is a decision based on Christian teaching. 
Rather than questioning the posi­tion itself the C.O. club hopes rather to be a place of personal investigation and comparison through di~cussion. If you think you may want to follow the way of conscientious objection it certainly makes sense to talk to others both in the same position and even more important to people already committed to this idea. Realizing that eventually the final decision must come from within, it is hoped that through this preliminary dialogue everyone will be able to answer the challenge of seriously living the gospel. 

Besides discussing the questions involved in making such a decision the club will attempt to relate the personal experiences of those people who have become conscientious objectors. Both alternative service and the long term effects must be examined. The C.O. position is not a trivial matter; you carry it with you to every job, on every job application in the section on 
(continued on page 5) 

VOL. IV, NO. 80 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
Student Union spends 30% of budget, expects profit 
hy Glen Corso will be available for extra events has "quite a bit of extra or activities it would like to money." As an example of
In a press conference last 

stage, or if they have to drop where the extra money is going,night, Denny Clark, along with certain activities because of a Roderick pointed to the Aca­I he top management of the shortage of money. demic Commission expenditures.
Student Union revealed that the 
A I00 page report which "In October we planned theUnion has only spent 30.6% of 
explains the system thoroughly, Academic commission to spendtheir total budget allocation. 
and how it works has been some 15,000 now though it willThe Union, which was budget­compiled and will be passed on be around 19,000." The Unioned for an outlay of $22,400 has to the next union management is also planning to have a $5,000spent only $6,X41.77. The 
team so that they won't have to contingency fund, in case of Tito Trevino, Asst. SU di­Denny Clark, SU director
reason for the Union's financial 
"set up a whole new system, losses incurred in the areas of rector.
successes was attributed to se­
because they don't know how campus press or academic com­Feb. 28, the Social Commission will t.c held thi.> year, Veechi veral factors, including the pro­mission or other areas. is sponsoring the Dreams in said. Due to the extra money thethis one works," according tofits made by Student Services 
Fitzsimmons. "We made money mainly concert. This is the first effort in festival will be held "even if it and Social Commission, and a 
Dick Roderick, head of Finan­because of the success of the the smaller concerts idea, where incurs a loss." 
new accounting system which cial Planning for the Union, concerts this year," Social Com­there is a minimum budget. An agreement has been reach­gave tighter control over internal explained that the budget was mission head Dave Veechi claim­Veechi termed this as risky ed with Sly and the Familycash flow. 
Stone for the May 2 Grand Prix
Jay Fitzsimmons, Union set forth so as to convey the idea ed, "In fact, two of the concerts though saying "I would rather of a "package of services." were very successful and we spend $25,000 on a group rather concert. The concert has been 
Comptroller, explained the goals 
Accordingly the Union budget made a great amount of money than $1 ,500 since I can be sure budgeted to break even, Veechiwhich the union management set was presented as a whole to the off of them." of filling the place up with the said, even though he expects it when they took over on April 
Senate. Veechi also outlined upcom­more expensive group." will make a profit. This is due to 1st of last year, and how they 
Now Roderick said, the union ing events for the semester. On The Collegiate Jazz Festival (continued on page 2)were achieved. 
lie explained that one of the most pressing needs was to "control the flow of cash in the 

Frick supports most Bureau changes
organization." Previously, he 
claimed, there was "little control over money," in the Student not agree. policy of inviting schools from gate summer employment possi­Union. Commissioners could In a letter sent last week to Frick delineated the future the University, secondary, and bilities and send the in forma lion 
.spend money, without telling changes in the organization ac­elementary levels to recruit pros­to the school publications to
the Student Life Council Mr. James Frick, University Vice­
the management where and how cording to the list drawn up by pective teachers on campus, in pass it along to the students. The it was being spent, as well as the the SLC. In responding to the addition to retaining a folder of Bureau will also actively seek
President for Public Relations,
amount, he said. Under this recommendation calling for wid­each graduating senior interested further cooperation with the
expressed his support for all of 
system, commented Fitzsim­the SLC's recommended changes er opportunity in advancing in a future teaching post. newly-formed St. Mary's Place­mons, the Academic Commis­Notre Dame graduates in educa­Regarding publicity for the
in the Placement Bureau with ment Bureau in compliance with sion appeared in the black, when tive vocations, Frick said the activities of the Bureau Frick the SLC suggestion to that
the exception of the recommen­
the new Union people took over Placement Bureau would begin a agreed to the SLC call for effect.
ded ban on recruitment by the 
April 1st. Later in the year further notice of the groups
Central Intelligence Agency.however, bills were sent for Frick's letter outlined the steps invited to recruit on campus. lie 
expenses which had been in­the Bureau will take to comply said a list of the recruiting In order I o clear up any cured by the Commission, which 
with the proposed changes and organizations would be sent to confusion about the exact pur­had not been taken into 
listed April I as the deadline for the Observer and the Scholastic poses of the Bureau the SLC had account. the changes to take effect. The for publication of the informa­asked for the Bureau to print a 
Now however, it is possible to Placement Bureau comes under tion to the students. Frick also rationale for the organization. measure where a commission his jurisdiction. went along with the recommend­Frick said a pamphlet explaining stands through using a system In explaining his opposition ation calling for an end to any the complete organization and which Fitzsimmons termed as to the Cl A ban, Mr. Frick limitation on the range of purposes of the Placement Bur­
"Venture accounting combined indicated his belief that the recruiting organizations to be eau will he published by the with municipal accounting." University could not in good invited. Frick's letter indicated deadline date. This pamphlet faith bar any Government agen­that a better mix of social will include a list of organiza­
Under this system each expendi­tions already invited to recruit
cy from recruiting on campus. groups and grad schools with
1 urc made by a commission over students on campus.
He also expressed the opinion organizations from government
$50 is sent to him in the form of Frick also indicated that the
that the ban would reflect badly and business would be forthcom­
an encumberance. This way if a 
ing. list of organizations will be sent
on the academic freedom of the to the SLC and the Studentcommissioner makes an agree­
ment to spend a certain amount, University. In describing the A further SLC recommend3­the comptroller is informed and SLC's recommendations as gen­tion asked for more and better Body President for the purpose 
of selecting the organizations
the amount entered on his erally "forwardly-looking" Frick information on summer employ­which will be of most usc to the
hooks. Thereby each commis­noted that the CIA proposal was ment for students. Frick promis­sion knows how muchll)oney the only one to which he could ed that the Bureau will investi-student body.



MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1970
THE OBSEIHIEit
PAGE 2 

Students represent silent majority 
•
Small reaction to Biafran campa1gn
by Steve Lazar 
Tom Hamilton, the National Director of the Students for Biafran Relief, thinks that the students at Notre Dame repre­sent the "silent majority." 
Referring to his organization's campaign to end the senseless starvation in Biafra, Hamilton Though disappointed in the said, "The reaction from campus local response, Hamilton seems is disgustingly small. We've recei­more enthusiastic about the ved only about II 00 dollars overall student reaction at from the entire Notre Dame-St. other colleges. Mary's community. That comes "We have been getting respon­to about 12 cents per person." ses all over the country. Last 

week we sent packets about the 
campaign to 1253 colleges. Al­



Margenau to speak on 
exper'·ence 
though everything is still in the formative stages, many of the colleges have given us unknown

science and 
thousands of dollars worth of 
Henry Margenau, Danforth Visiting Lecturer and Yale University professor who is a leading authority on the philo­sophical foundations of physics, will be the featured speaker during the Saint Mary's College Humanistic Studies series on Thursday, February 26. The session, which is open to the public free of charge, will be held at 8:00 p.m. in the Moreau Hall Little Theater. 
Dr. Margenau, who will speak on "The Role of Science in Human Experience," has made important contributions to physics in his work on inter­molecular forces, spectroscopy, nuclear physics and electronics. 
A Higgins Professor of Physics and Natural Philosophy at Yale, Dr. Margenau is well known as an author and lecturer. He served as a consultant to the Atomic Energy Commission, the Air Force, the National Bureau of Standards, the Argonne National Laboratory, the Rand 
Corporation of California, as well as Lockheed and A vco P ~search Laboratories. He has oeen a staff member of the Institute for Advanced Studies at Princeton, New Jersey, and the Radiation Laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Tech­
nology and has held a Guggen­heim Fellowship and a Fulbright Grant. 

During World War II, Dr. Margenau did important work in microwave theory, particularly duplexing ~ystems--the devices 
that make possible the use ot a common antenna in a radar set for both transmitting and receiv­ing operations. 
Dr. Margenau has been visiting lecturer and professor at many universities throughout the 
United States and in Germany, Japan, and Switzerland and has received at least six honorary doctorate degrees from univer­sities in the U.S. and Canada. 
free advertising." 
Recognition of the SBR has come from many sources, in­cluding senators, congressmen, Catholic and Protestant news services, and the National Stu­dent Association. But Hamilton feels that "politics" is preventing the legislators from acting to aid the starving Biafrans. 
To counteract that trend in which government officials en­dorse movements to help Bia­frans but take no action, Hamil­ton has written a "mandate" to President Nixon urging that he act according to a campaign speech he made in September, 

Let's talk about DREAMS 
1968. In that speech, candidate Nixon suggested the U.S. Gov­ernment should help prevent the destruction of the Biafran peo­ple. Hamilton plans to circulate the "mandate," which he called the "official policy statement" of the SBR, to every senator and congressman in the Capitol. 
As a further measure, he will try to get an official policy statement from President Nix­on's Special Assistant on Nigeri­an Affairs, Mr. Ferguson. He hopes that the goals of the Students for Biafran Relief will be recognized and assisted with the help of Mr. Ferguson. 
Hamilton briefly outlined the three point plan which he feels will aid the cause of Biafra. Under the first point, the United States and the Organization for Afri~an States would cooperate to end the food shortage. Sec­ondly, the United Nations would contribute food and medical supplies. And thirdly,, the Nigeri­an Government would be asked to cooperate in resolving the problem; but if they refused, 
economic and political pressure 
would be used to help them 
change their minds. 
Recent statistics have shown that about 41% of the children under four years old in Biafra are now dead. This will mean that the Biafrans will miss almost an entire generation, as the death rate continues without any substantial decrease. 
Referring to the local scene again, Hamilton said the SBR has filed papers with the City of South Bend and St. Joseph County which will permit solici­tation of funds. He also express­ed his appreciation of the efforts of the Student Senate and the Sophomore Class Committee to aid the SBR. 
Hamilton noted there is a possibility that the student Din­ing Hall employees will donate at least one meal's wages to the poor of Biafra. Any donation from anyone he said, no matter what amount, would be greatly appreciated. Donations can be mailed to P.O. Box 516, Notre Dame, Indiana. 


Services and Social Commissions allow profit 
(continuted from page 1) 
the ..nsky" nature of running concerts since it is difficult to gauge the response to a group. 
Grand Prix will also be held this year. Veechi said that it had been put on a break even basis, and that several changes have been made so as to insure against a loss. 
The only losses incurred were on two of the five concerts and on the homecoming ball. The ball, according to Veechi, lost money because "we didn't anti­cipate the 40% drop in atten­dance that occured." 
John Monnich, head of Stu­dent Services, claimed the suc­cess of the commission was due to "having two steadily run organizations, campus press, and student publications and· also because they made no major 
expenditures during this year."
Monnich said that this year the organization worked on a "different philosophy." They 
used the profits from the money making ventures such as the busses to O'Hare to build up a bank to be used for contingen­cies. With this money the com­mission this semester plans to spend more money and take in 
less revenue. Plans include a centralized ticket booth for travel and activities, which will 
be set up this semester. "Last year when this admini­stration took over we decided on 
a re-evaluation. We wanted to better serve the students and the entire university community," Union head Denny Clark stated. 
Clark claimed that the most important task which faced the administration was the "need to create some sort of financial 

stability." This was done, he said, with the introduction of a new financial system and a 
re-structuring of the UnJ·on. Claiming that "the financial system has been the biggest change," Clark asserted that "we have reached a strong financial position as of February !." Tito Trevino, assistant Union director, commented saying that he would "like to thank the people responsible for our finan­
cia! situation. We received a lot of help from the administration, particularly from Fr. Joyce and 
Professor Stewart." Trevino also 
cited various faculty members 
for their help for the academic commission. "Those who are most respon­
sible for the success are the people working in the offices up here. We're a very tight knit 
group, and I'm very happy for 
that," Trevino said. "Overall," Trev,·no stated, "We set as gour goal, to make 
the students aware of what the Union does for them. We wanted to try to make their lives here just a little bit better. Thanks to the fine personnel we have, I 
think that we did it this year." 
He went on saying that he felt the "credibility gap" between the Union and the students had been "narrowed considerably if not completely reduced." 
"The Union wasn't designed to be a profit making organiza­tion. Actually it was formed to be a service organization. I think that this year we have done this better than ever before " Tre­vino claimed. ' 
State of the Union as of the first semester 
Administrative $2,671 Social 5,412 Academic 11,980 Services 2,388 Net Union expenses 6.841 Union Budget 22,400 
----~Laird:draft continues 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -De­Saturday to President Nixon by fense Secretary Melvin R. Laird a 15 member panel headed by
Make America a better place 
held out little hope Sunday of former Defense Secretary an administration decision to Thomas S. Gates Jr. But he said eliminate the drart and shift to 
U.S. military strength would an all volunteer fighting force by have to be at or less than 2.5 
mid I 971 as recommended by a million men before the draft
LEAVE THE COUNTRY 
special presidential advisory could be scrapped, a good dealcommission. 
below the 2.9 million levelThe Pentagon chief also said projected for July I , 1971.
he did not foresee any expansion 
of the U.S. military role in Laos "Certainly it's a practical 
"as far as ground forces are objective,'. Laird said, "and 
concerned" but he declined to think we can move in that


PEACE CORPS 
rule out increased use of air direction. But I do not want to power over the southeast Asian give a fixed timetable as far as n(J.tion. 197l...because r do not believe 
Laird basically endorsed the that our force structure will concept of volunteerism out­necessarily be at the 2.5 million lined in a rer:>rt submitted figure that is projected in this
Memorial Library Concourse r---------------report." 4 P.M. 
The Gates commission did not Feb. 23-27 9:00am to 4:30pm 
try to calculate how many men would be needed to maintain
WASHINGTON HALL 
national defenses. It used the 2.5 million figure because it came
only open till 6 
close to pre Vietnam levels. 
Peace Corps Fi1m: "The Foreigners" 
The Observer is published daily dents, Teachers. Stateside and Inter· 
JOBS! JOBS! and more JOBS! Stu, during the college semester except 
vacations . by students of the Year-round Jobs; Summer Jobs. All 
national Jobs. Recreational Jobs·
Tuesday, Feb. 24, 7:00pm 
University of Notre Dame and St.
Center for Continuing Education 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may tlon while you earn. Hurry! The best 
04icupatlons and trades. Enjoy a vaca· be purchased for $8 from The
Audio Visual Theatre 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame,
jobs are taken early. Write: "JOBS", 
Ind., 46556. Second class postage Calif. 95240 · 
P.O. Box 475, Dept. CP 163-1. Lodi, paid. Notre Oaml'. Ind., 46S56. 
PAGE 3
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1970 THE OBSDWER. 
•




ND sen1ors begin analysis of judicial system 
Working on the premise that "justice delayed is justice de­nied," seniors studying industrial engineering at the University of Notre Dame will begin a three­pronged a~alysis of South Bend's criminal justice system this semester. 
According to Dr. James M. Daschbach, Jr., professor of aerospace and mechanical engi­neerilig, they are seeking ways of shortening the extended delay which occurs nationwide be­tween the date a man is arrested and the date he is sentenced. 
Daschbach, who teaches the four-credit engineering work analysis course, requires his students to perform an actual work measurement analysis of some organization in the com­munity as the laboratory exer­cise for the course. Students beginning the analysis of the justice system, for instance, will make a thorough study of the police, county court, and prose­cutor's office, especially examin­ing the interaction among the three branches. They will graphi­cally display the flow of re­sponsibility from arrest to verdict, study the work habits and patterns of the branches, and make engineering sugges­tions for more effective proce­dures. 
The project is an attempt to implement suggestions of the Crime Commission Report is­sued under Lyndon Johnson, Daschbach explained, which asked that the courts of Washington, D.C. employ "sys­tems analysis" in evaluating the criminal justice system of that city. 
The primary advantage of such laboratory problems, Daschbach believes, is that they give the student a chance to apply theoretical precepts to an actual problem. "For many students," he said, "this is the first exposure to the frustrating environment of the business world. They have to limit their ideas by criminal justice analy­s·Js. . reason of economics, 


Notre Dame accepts large ALC grant for research 
Notre Dame accepted awards $155,904,and included: for research and educational -$19,180 from the National programs totaling $191,984 for Institutes of Health (NIH); for the month of January, Dr. studies in "Cellular Aspects of Frederick D. Rossini, vice presi-the Mechanisms in AB Synthe­dent for research and sponsored sis," to be administered by Dr. programs has announced. Albert A. Nordin, associate pro-
The Atomic Energy Commis-fessor of microbiology. sion contributed $100,000 in -$15,113 from the Diocese support of research in nuclear of St. Petersburg, Fla. for a spectroscopy in the department study of "Catholic Schools and of physics. Dr. John W. CCD in Hillsborough County, Mihelich, professor of physics, Fla.," by the Rev. William B. and Dr. Emerson G. Funk, Friend of the Office for Educa­associate professor of physics, tiona] Research. have used spectroscopy methods -$5,944 from the Diocese of since 1957 to study the nuclei of Atlanta, Ga. for a "Financial excited atoms. They are particu-Analysis of the Catholic School Iarly interested in measuring the System of Atlanta," by Dr. energies, describing the wave Kenneth M. Brown, assistant functions, and learning the spins professor of economics. of specific nuclei. _ $5,000 from the Allen 
A sophisticated apprentice-County Cancer Society for a ship program in science for top predoctoral research fellowship undergraduates received $36,080 in microbiology. from the National Science _ $5 000 from Serra Inter-Foundation (NSF). Six depart-national' for a study on the ments at Notre Dame will "Sociology of Religion," by Dr. sponsor undergraduate research William V. D'Antonio, chairman programs this summer, more of the department of sociology than at any other university in and anthropology. the country. The programs offer _ $2,367 from Texaco, Inc. top undergraduates an opportu-for fellowship support in chemis­nity to pursue individual re-try. search under established scien-__ $2,300 from the Sandia tists. Corp. for doctoral support in the 
Awards for research totaled Graduate School. 
--$1,000 from the NIH for a postdoctoral research fellowship in biology. 
Awards in support of educa­tiona! programs totaled $36,080, and included: 
--$12,200 from the NSF for an undergraduate research parti­<.:ipation program in aerospace and mechanical engineering, to be administered by Dr. K wang-Tzu Yang, chairman of the 
' department. -$6,600 from the NSF for a program in biology administered by Dr. Ralph E. Thorsen, pro­fessor of biology. --$4,660 from the NSF for a program in geology, administer­ed by Dr. William M. Fairley, associate professor of geology. --$4,550 from the NSF for a program in metallurgical engi­neering and materials science, administered by Dr. Ettore A. Peretti, professor of metallurgi­cal engineering and materials science. --$4,500 from the NSF for a program in physics, administered by Dr. John W. Mihelich, pro­fessor of physics. --$3,570 from the NSF for a program in civil engineering, administered by Dr. Kenneth R. Lauer, professor of civil engi­neering. 

physical layout or personnel 
capability, and often find the art 
of selling an idea to be very 
difficult." 

All the students in the work analysis course are mechanical engineering majors, industrial option. The problems they tackle are created by Daschbach, who often spends as much as six months planning and checking before the students begin their study. He contacts the organiza­tion involved, arranges such details as whom the students may see, where they are allowed, and how often they are wel­come. He then wntes a state­ment of the scope and purpose of the study, and obtains final approval from the superinten­dents. 
In attacking such a problem, students spend the first two weeks getting acquainted with the physical layout, people and procedures. After that, they are expected to conduct irilerviews, draw a floor plan, perform simulations on the computer, and come up with a few workable suggestions. 
Dasch bach's students in past semesters have undertaken ser­vice projects for the Memorial Hospital, the Sibley Machine and Foundry Co., the South Bend Clinic, and White Farm Indus­tries. Often, their studies have proved so interesting that a graduate student was funded to complete the project when the semester ended. 
THE PHY. ED. MAJOR SAID JOCUlARLY: 

EUROPE $229 
June 24 to August 18 8 weeks Detroit/London/Detroit 
ROUND TRIP JET 
N.B. -last sign-up by Feb. 27 University Charter's 6th Annual Charter Flight Series 
Sponsored by Notre Dame, St. Marys's -Students International 
Intra-European student charter flight bookings
non-stop Jet 
NSA international J.D. cards 
open bar and complete meals 


MILLER
Eurai I and Bri trai I passes

Detroit departures from near-by Metro Airport 
Auto purchases, rentals and Ieases 

$50 deposit, final payment in March 
Connecting ground and air transportation 


MAKES IT RIGHT! 
cancellation privileges until day of departure 
Traveler's Checks 
complete ran~?e of travel services 
Educational tours 
SEND US
Student priced hotel bookings 
YOUR
A London office to serve you 
AD-VERBIAL 
A wide variety of flights to choose from 
PUNS ABOUT 
COLLEGE MAJORS. IF 

Our Ann Arbor office can book you into student priced hotels before you leave. 
and our London office will look after all your needs while you are in Europe. 
PUBLISHED,

Open only to Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, faculty, staff and immediate families 
WE'LL SEND 

$50 Deposit Reserves Seats YOUA REFRESHING
Phone or stop in: 
REWARD.

Notre Dame Student Service Commission 

PAGE 4 





THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

Editorial 

Stop false fire alarms 
The Notre Dame fire department spent its usual weekend answering false alarms -usual, at least, for the past two or three years. 
Friday night the department, which consists of the Brothers who live above the fire station and some volunteer graduate students were called to a false alarm in Walsh Hall. After spending time checking out the call they returned to the station. As soon as they returned they were called out again --this time to the area near the Grotto. Apparently some prankster saw the truck returning to the station and decided it would be cool to turn in a false alarm. 
Saturday night was the same story. About midnight an alarm was turned in for the ll th floor of Grace where a party was going on. The crew arrived in time to barge in on the affair, probably much to the delight of whoever it was that was looking for a laugh. One of the fire volunteers remained on the truck while the others went up to the eleventh floor. He had to stay there, he said, because in the p~'st they have had problems with people stealing equipment while the volunteers would leave the truck unattended to investigate an alarm. While he stood there he had to put up with the taunts and jokes of the hall residents. 
Such actions are ridiculous to say the least. At the most they are dangerous. Someday they might prove less than funny if the staff is out chasing a false alarm while a real fire is taking place or if they discover that ·some drunken student has picked up a piece of equipment from the truck that is needed. Not insignificant is the fact that the men in the campus fire department are volunteers. They are giving up their free time to help protect the campus and certainly shouldn't be required to put up with all the pranks that take place. 
We feel that members of the halls should begin to take a more active role in assuring that such ridiculous actions are not allowed to continue. The number of false alarms has picked up in the past few years. Three or four years ago there used to be a false alarm or two when there was some kind of "big weekend" according to officials. Now it is an acknowledged fact that the company is out almost every weekend--often more than once. 
Usually a person can not turn in a false alarm without someone spotting him. It is often done as a joke and the person no doubt likes to talk about it. It would seem that the responsible segment of the student body could see that these people are not allowed to get away with their ridiculous actions. They should be stopped before they turn in alarms or should be turned into the hall judicial boards. If a student takes a piece of fire equipment he certainly can not keep it in his room without being noticed. It is time that responsible students do a little something. Perhaps if students were forced to evacuate a building every time an alarm were turned in people would be a little more concerned about the issue. 
Such a suggestion is ridiculous but there is something to be concerned about. Fire protection' is no children's toy. The juvenile delinquents who are using it to get their kicks ought to stop or be stopped. 
Business Mgr.: Bruce Rieck Bruce Barker, Advertising Manager Jim Holsinger, Circulation Manager John Maher, Accountant Nancy Erdman, Secretary  ::>ports Editor: Mike Pavlin Feature Editor: Dave Stauffer Photog.-aphy Editor: Mike Murphy Ad Layout: St'"-'e Dollinger Night Editor: Dave Lam~crs  The opinions expressed in the editorials, news analyses, and columns of THE OBSERVER dre solely those of the authors and  
News Editor: Glen Corso  Layout design: Guy DeSapio  editors of THE OBSERVER and  
Asst. News Editor: Steve Hoffman  do  not  necessarily  reflect  the  
SMC News Editor: Prudence Wear  Layout:  Margie  Rurak,  Jan  views of St.  Mary's College, the  
Associate  Editors:  Cliff  Wintrode,  Reimer,  Marilyn  Becker,  Laura  University  of  Notre  Dame, their  
Ann Conway, Jeanne Sweeney Layout Editor: Mary Ellen Burke  Dudley, Redbeard, C.P. Myers Headlines: Rich Smith  administration. dent bodies.  faculty,  or  stu­ 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1970 

Now there's a cigarette for the two of you. 
Dave Lammers 

Genocide 

An essay by Bertrand Russell, entitled "On American Violence," published posthumously in the March issue of Ramparts magazine, describes the general character of the war in Vietnam as "genocidal." Russell says, 
"(The war) has been fought from the air with napalm and fragmentation bombs, helicopter gunships and pellet bombs, the spraying of poisons on thousands of acres and the use ofenormous high explosive weapons. Civilian areas have been declared 'free fire zones' and the policy has· been one of mechanized slaughter. On the ground, search and destroy missions have used gas in lethal quantities, the killing of prisoners, and systematic interrogation under electrical and other tortures. " 
One must look beyond the general mass media to determine the 
true extent of American genocide. David Dellinger reported after his 
trip to North Viet Nam in 196 7 that no village over 600 persons had 
survived the American bombing raids, despite President Johnson's 
promise that only military targets were being attacked. The latest 
Guardian reports many other incidents similar to My Lai that have 
gone unreported. 
This gruesome review is necessary because Americans have 
accepted the genocidal character of the war as "necessary." We 
realize that the purpose of destroying the Vietnamese is not to hold 
territory, but to inflict more pain, suffering, death, and destruction 
on-the Vietnamese than they are able to bear. The tactics that 
Russell described make little distinction between soldiers and 
civilians. We kill Vietnamese because they are Vietnamese, much as 
Hitler killed Jews because they were Jewish. 
Jean Paul Sartre, in his essay, On Genocide, says that "genocide 
represents itself as the only possible reaction of the American 
government to the rising of a whole people against its oppressors." 
Honeywell Corporation, which has been recruiting here at the school of Our Lady, at this "Christian university" this past week, is the main producer of anti-personell bombs. In the Honeywell Report Report, (available in the Administration Building) there is this descriptiop: 
"The main fragmentation bomb is the cluster bomb unit (CBU), which consists of a "mother bomb" filled with 640 small baseball-size secondary bombs called 'Guavas.' These 'guavas' are released from the mother bomb % mile above ground and dispersed over an area 10 football fields in length. They may be set to explode in the air, on impact, or after laying on the ground for some time. When they do explode, each one sends about 250 steel pellets flying in all directions with great force. The pellets do no harm to concrete, brick buildings or weapons but they tear flesh, spiraling forward and ripping insides. Their erratic course makes removal extremely difficult." 
In January of 1968 the Air Force spent $11,191,730 for 31,288,059 bomblets. 
"I've seen reports of enemy soldiers actually being nailed to trees by these things," one officer commented. (December 14, J967, AP) 
I think we have a right to know from the Administration of this 
"Christian" university what war research is going on here. I think W<' 
have a right to know why Father Hesburgh allows the producer of 
anti-personell bombs and other genocidal weapons to recruit here. It 
is not enough for the head of this university to say that he sees the 
nation "falling apart," or that he would end the war if he could. 
The lamb of innocence is daily being defiled; we do our part. 
300,000 Vietnamese lie dead; we did our part, and now we 
prepare fresh graves. 
We, (students, faculty, administrators) must stand up, or continue 
to be the "white-washed sepulchres" of hypocrisy and complicity. 
Our silent witness to genocide will not go uncondcmned. 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1970 
THE OBSERfiER. 
PAGE 5 


Seniors to vote on SIX Fellow nom1nees 
OPEN lETTER TO THE SENIOR ClASS OF 1970, Bernstein retired as conductor in 1969
Below you will find brief biographies in order to concentrate on composing andof the six nominees of the 1970 Senior lecturing.
Fellow Committee. Each of these six men has already agreed to come to Notre FRANK BORMAN Dame for from two to four days. . .· . . . . . f 
We ask that, in voting, you bear in The ftrst human ctrcumnavtgahon o mind that the Senior Fellow Award is the moon was performed by a three man neither a patriotism award nor a popular-team of Americans under the comm~nd ity contest. Rather it is an attempt to of Colonel Frank Borr~an of the Umted foster the spirit of free exchange and States Air Force. The fhght of the Ap~ll~ education so vital to a university by 8 was followed by t~e world on tt s means of exposure to a person who has 590,000 mile, 147-hour Journey. 
made an impact on his time. Yet the flight of the Apollo 8 was n?t 
Senator Ribicoff, Congressman Lowen-the first time Frank Borman had flown m stein, Colonel Borman, former Justice outer space. As a member of ~he two-man Goldberg, Professor Schlesinger and Mr. (;emini 7 flight, Borman or?tted over the Berstein each have much to offer the earth for fourteen days, settmg the record 
Notre Dame Senior in terms of personal contact. We hope that in choosing between 
them you will consider which you feel 
has the most to offer you as an 
individual. 
Michael Kelly, Chairman 
(lJ70 Senior Fellow Program 
LEONARD BERNSTEIN 
Leonard Bernstein is noted equally for his accomplishments in serious music and his pedagogic flair. 
This American composer and conduc­tor was horn in Lawrence, Massachusetts in (l) IS. lie studied music and became an accomplished pianist at Harvard Univer­sity. 
In 1943, Bernstein was appointed Assistant Conductor of the New York Philharmonic. His technical self-assurance under difficult circumstances and hi~ interpretive excellence made an im­mediate impression, and marked the beginning of a brilliant career. l-Ie subsequently conducted the New York City Center Orchestra· from 1945 to 1947. 
lie became permanent conductor of the New York Philharmonic in 1958. He has toured extensively with this orchestra hoth in the United States and other continents. 
When Bernstein was named conductor of the New York Philharmonic, he regretfully had to resign his teaching post al Brandeis University. His popularity increased through his Young People's Concerts and his appearances on tele­vision not only as conductor and pianist hut also as a commentator and enter­tainer. 
Bernstein has composed a variety of works. lie has written Jewish liturgical themes, ballets, jazz rhythms, and scores for musicals. Among the latter, he wrote the score for West Side Story and for the film On the Waterfront. 
duration for manned space flight. After his trip around the moon, Frank Borman moved into the executive staff of 
the National Space Administrational. Today, Borman directs the astronaut program as well as the development of 
the manned space station. 
In recent months it has become apparent that Borman is increasing in influence with the Nixon administration and is widely considered to be the voice of the administration in aerospace development. 
Borman graduated from West Point 8th 
in a class of 670 and received a M.A. in 
aeronautical engineering from the Cali­
fornia Institute of Technology. 
ALLARD K. LOWENSTEIN 

AI Lowenstein, the 40-year-old Con­gressman from New York's Fifth Congres­sional District (Nassau County), has dedicated his life to the reform of the American political system and through­out his life he has made use of the student population to achieve this re­form. 
Lowenstein organized the Conference uf Concerned Democrats that first put pressure on President Lyndon Johnson to step down from office. He, was instru­mental in persuading _Eugene _McCarthy to Convention, he organized the Coalition for an Open Convention. lie is a former President of the National Students Association which is widely considered one of the more beneficial national student organizations. 
Lowenstein is widely considered "the most liberal man in Congre~s." 
ARTHURJ.GOLDBERG 
Few men in this past decade can match the scope of public involvement attained by Arthur J. Goldberg. He was the son of impoverished Jewish-Russian immigrants living in the slums of Chicago. As a fitting climax to a Horatio Alger-youth, he graduated number one in his class at the Northwestern University Law School. 
That was 1930. By 1948 he was one of the most important men in the world of labor law. In that year he became general counsel for the C.I.O. and the United Steel Workers. Goldberg helped plan the important A.F.L.-C.I.O. merger in 1955. In his work for the unions he was known as a shrewd and tenacious negotiator. 
It was on Capitol Hill as a union representative that he met John Kennedy. They became good friends and soon Goldberg was one of Kennedy's most trusted advisors. This close association led to his appointment in 1961 as Secretary of Labor. 
He was the most visibly active 
Secretary who ever held the job. He believed in opening friendly channels of communication between business and labor and attempted to make government an active third party in collective bargaining. Although an outspoken Dem­ocrat, his record made him the favorite labor spokesman not only of President 
.Kennedv but of as l"i!!ht-wing a Republi­r;an as Senator Barry Goldwater. Goldberg's. public service took a new turn in 1962 when he was appointed to the Supreme Court. As a Supreme Court Justice, he was always one of the leading 
declare for the Prestdency m 1968 and liberals. He favored the fullest use of the was an influential member of McCarthy's Court's powers in behalf of civil rights campaign organization for the duration of and civil liberties. 
McCarthy's camp_ai~n. . . . When Adlai Stevenson died suddenly in 
Yet Lowe~sletn s acttvtttes hav~ been 1965, Goldberg was called on to replace long and vaned m nature. An articulate him as Ambassador to the United opponentto South Africa's policy of Nations. Here he was instrumental in aparthied, he has also been active in bringing about ~ cease-fire in the American Civil Rights movements. In Indian-Pakistan conflict in 1965 and in 1964 it was AI Lowen_stein t~a_t ~ro~ght the Mid-East, Six-Day War in 1967. "Mr. thou~ands of students t_nto ~tsstsSt_PPI for Goldberg's talents as a negotiator trans­th1e ftrst larg~ voter regt~tratto~ ~nve a~d formed vague consensus to precise lang­
Ah Lf,owedn~tem tahs a~. m_te~· . ;cto; m uage and forged decisions which might t e oun mg o t e tsstsstppt ree om otherwise have been left up in the · " D~mocra tic Party and is on the ~oa_rd. of: The Nation, Sf 13/68) He retired in t~~8 
Dtrectors of the Southern Chnsttan to enter private life. 
Leadership Conference. 

As a delegate to the 1968 Democratic His own words serve as the best 
reflection on his career, "Throughout my life I have been deeply committed to the
CO at Notre Dame 
ruie of law. The law gives form and substance to the spirit of liberty and to mankind's sacred stir for justice." 
ABRAHAM A. RIBICOFF 
Mr. Ribicoff has had a successful and varied career in politics. He has served as Governor of Connecticut for 6 years, Secretary of HEW for 2, and thus far 7 years as Senator from Conn. In 1968 his reputation was enhanced at the Democra­tic Convention by two different speeches. The first was the nominating speech for George McGovern for President, the other was an attack on Mayor Daley for the Gestapo tactics of the police. 
Considered somewhat of a crusader, Mr. Ribicoff has been an active war critic as well as social critic. He has concerned himself with the urban crisis, with poverty, education, housing, medical aid and national health goals, auto safety standards, and pollution. His concern for the poor dates back to his own childhood experience in a slum-type environment where he grew up. 
ARTHUR M. SCHLESINGER 
Arthur Meier Schlesinger, Jr., born it. Columbus, Ohio, October 15, 1917, is a noted historian and Pulitzer Prize winning writer. Receiving a B.A. from Harvard in 1938, M-r. Schlesinger joined that school's faculty in 1947 and served in that capacity until 1961. 

He was an active member of the Adlai Stevenson Campaign Staff in 1952 and served as special assistant to Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson from 1961 to 1964. 
In 1966 he joined the faculty of the City University of New York as the Schweitzer Professor of Humanities and is currently serving in that capaCity. ' 
As accomplished writer, Mr. Schlesing­er was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for history in 1946 for his book, The Age of Jackson. In 1966 he again was awarded a Pulitzer Prize for biography for A Thousand Days: John F. Kennedy in the White House. 
Among his other works are: Orestes A. Brownson: A Pilgrim's Progress ( 1939); The Vital Center ( 1949); Politics of Freedom( 1950); and The General and the President ( 1951 ). 
He also wrote a three volume work on The Age of Roosevelt, published in 1957, 1959, and 1960. 
Mr. Schlesinger was awarded the Gold Medal for History in 1967 by the National Institute of Arts and Letters. 

(continued from page I) 
military service the C.O. must face the decision he has made. These consider­ations cannot he ignored either. 
The second area of emphasis in tile club will deal with the legal aspects of conscientious objection. Among the people serving as advisors to the club will he at least two qualified lawyers who will be able to answer most q ueslions quickly and have the know­ledge of resource material to discover the finer details. This is very necessary. The complexities and inconsistencies of the present drafl law arc confusing even lo experienced consulars; it is not a safe position for the inexperienced. The reali~.ation of a legitimate C.O. position will he of lillie benefit unless the individual knows the legal require­ments of obtaining this recognition. Finally the experience of the cluh legal advisors is not strictly limited to C.O. aspects of the law. So anyone with questions on the draft is welcome to attend 
This is only a broad outline of what 
will not be made hy me hut by the people who at.lend the meeting next Wednesday night at 9:00 p.m. In general the club is meant to be an information service to the Notre Dame community. 
In closing the club will be a forum for the consideration of the alternative lo military service. Patriotism is not synonomous with combat (although the men who have risked and given their lives certainly have been valiant) it is a dedication to the highest ideals lo which this nation espouses. Among these is the autonomy of conscience. Our aim perhaps was best staled by the late president John F. Kennedy, 
We must face the truth that the people have not been horrified hi' war to a sujjlcent extent to j(Jrce them to any extent rather than have another war. War will exist until the day when the conscientious objector enjoys the same reputation and prestige the warrior does today. 


the club might be. The real decision Arthur Schlesinger, Jr., Senior Fellow candidate. 


THE OBSERVER. MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1970 
Letters to the Editor 
laughter at the sight of babies front of placement bureau door­
Numbness before Death 
murdered at My Lai, from ways, or those who are right­Editor: hearing the same righteous cru­eously incensed about the burn­
It had many of the trappings saders for life justify the use of ing of the lamb yet condone the of a Greek drama: the crowd of weapons (in Vietnam) that hy genocidal destruction of all of 'spectators grouped as in an rights should horrify any human Vietnam? And who, finally, are amphi-theater, the masked ritual being, from hearing Fr. Riehle degenerate, those who
more 

players, and a choragos made up say the protest was accomplish­threaten to bring the horror of of the righteously-incensed ed "with real good hurrior," war before our faces or those of members of SLFC (Save the from the realization that most of us whose infinite insensitivity 
Lamb for Christianity). But as these same people have refused would even then let us ignore it? the crowd filed away, after all to even read the material offered One can only reflect on the the action was over, anyone who by the CPA on "Complicity numbness that precedes death. bothered to read seriously the Week." With Peace, statement passed out by those But ultimately there is only Steven Brion masked players must have shared compassion' and sadness. Because 209 Flanner 
its bitterness. What followed the demeaning words and act­
SMC SBP

would only re-enforce that feel­ions of those of us who laughed ing: out of the chorus stepped a at yesterday's demonstration are Editor: figure robed in black, hands only one more symptom of our In regards to recent articles raised. "All right, you can all go total and fatal insensitivity. Our and letters appearing in the back to bed now." And he biggest resource may well be our Observer, we would like to clear laughed as he spoke his lines. ability to rationalize away any­up a few important facts per­The choragos echoed, responded thing ugly, to self-justify our taining to the Student Assembly 
with more laughter. And so the laughter. This numbness came and its lately-debated issue of ritual bacame a joke, the action terribly clear yesterday; and removing class requirements for demeaned by the insensitive with it, a realization of just how the office of the SBP. A case in jocularity of those of us who far the revolution will have to go point is the letter of Sue Keres simply refuse to feel...anything. before anything is achieved. and Ann Reed (Observer, Feb. There is bitterness, yes. It Who are finally more hypo­20). Their conception of our bill comes 
from hearing derisive critical-those who stand in overlooks the obvious contribu­
nta 




superjob? 
Talk to the man from Associates. He'll be here Marc!! 3 If you want to avoid boredom, you belong in a career where the action is vigorous, vital and varied. You belong in the finance business. You belong with Associates, a growing, restless, progressive financial organ­ization that helps make other companies grow and go. Make an appointment now through the Placement Office to meet the man from Associates. He'll tell you about our opportunities for advancement. About our solid executive benefits ... among the finest in the country. About our liberal Educational Assistance Plan. About everything you want to know for a superjob-a supercareer-in finance. 
You'll never have a better opportunity to get in on the excitement that centers around big money. 
ASSOCIATES CORPORATION OF NORTH AMERICA and Subsidiaries 
1700 Mishawaka Avenue, South Bend, Indiana 46624 
A Gulf+ Western Company 
tions that underclassmen could 
make to an effective adminis­
tration of Student Government. 
St. Mary's, in its present 
restructuring of student govern­
ment, is intentionally shifting 
emphasis from the class level to 
that of the halls. We are 
attempting to ease St. Mary's 
out of its class consciousness and 
restrictiveness into a sense of 
individual awareness. Certain 
upperclassmen seem to have 
missed this point of our bill 
entirely. 

Opening the office of SBP to 
present sophomores and juniors 
could only make for better 
elections at SMC. While, as 
Susan Turnbull stated, we will 
probably never find the 
"perfect" president, allowing 
sophomores to run also would 
provide more candidates from 
which to chose. We must not 
lose faith here in the individual 
voter; a poor candidate will be 
recognized no matter what class 
she is from. 

The momentum of enthu­
siasm building in the freshmen 
and sophomores does seem to 
droop as juniors. What better 
way to capture and channel this 
enthusiasm in our student 
government, so long the target 
of criticism for lack of vitality? 
Jeanne Sweeney (Observer, 
Feb. 19) pointed out that class 
distinction makes no difference 
in regards to the qualities of a 
good leader. Miss Sweeney's 
vantage point as a two year 
reporter on St. Mary's Student 
Government contributes to her 
perspective on the matter. 
Perhaps all this is anti­
climactic and unnecessary. We 
have been defeated twice on this 
issue. But what we witnessed in 
our Assembly last week was far 
too valuable to be readily 
dismissed: students really 
activated over an issue. The 
possibility of an all-school 
referendum remains open to us, 
but whatever the outcome, we 
hope that this issue will not be 
forgotten by those committed to 
its true intent. 

Yours in St. Mary's, 
Jane Sheehy 

Louise McGrath 
Regina Hall Senators 
Students for Biafran Relief 
EDITOR: 

STUDENTS FOR BIAFRAN 
RELIEF is an organization head­
quartered at the University of 
Notre Dame, established for the 
sake of saving the millions of 
starving people from death in 
the former rebel state of Biafra. As you are aware, an estimat­ed two million lbo tribesmen have died as a result of the Nigerian civil war. Students in America are now seeking to do . their part in constructive acti­
vism to alleviate conditions 
which cause the atrociously large 
number of Nigerians to starve. It 
is estimated that almost 5,000 of 
these former Biafrans are dying 
each day because of the lack of 
distributed food. 

STUDENTS FOR BIAFRAN 
RELIEF seeks to enlist aid from 
students, laymen, political lead­
ers and corporations nation-wide 
to express their views to the 
world on the situation. It is our 
opinion that the United States 
government, through its state 
department, could make a great­
er effort to cause a change in the 
abhorrent conditions of hunger 
in the former enclave. 
That is why we are appealing 
to you; to ask your endorsement 
of any effort to end the problem 
and for support in entreating the President of the United States to follow his own stand on the subject: "The terrible tragedy of the people of Biafra has now as­sumed catastrophic dimen­sions ..... this is not the time to stand on ceremony or to 'go through channels' or to observe the diplomatic niceties. The destruction of an entire people is an immoral objective, even in the most moral of wars. It can never be justified; it can never be condoned." R.M. NIXON, 
SEPT. 10, 1968 
STUDENTS FOR BIAFRAN RELIEF is operating as a non­profit organization staffed com­pletely by volunteer help. We are now operating with the advisory assistance of many faculty mem­bers, university administrators, and United States Senators. 
It is our intention to make available the funds raised to the 
NIGERIAN RED CROSS, through the ICRC. We hope that the political conditions will change soon so that the only organization bringing relief to the Biafrans will NOT be the incompetent NIGERIAN RED CROSS. For the present, how­ever, they are getting SOME food through to the starving; some does not get through. 
Sincerely, 

STUDENTS FOR BIAFRAN RELIEF 
Superman comics 
EDITOR: 

To avoid any misunderstand­ing concerning the recent "lamb-burning" demonstration, I wish to make it absolutely clear that I participated in no way in the planning or execution of said demonstration. In fact I was as much in the dark about the final outcome of the demon­stration as was that venerable bard, Mr. T.C. Treanor. 
I am only too happy to accept Mr. Treanor's kind invitation to engage in debate on the issues he mentioned near the end of his column. I leave it up to him to contact me so that we can discuss such particulars as time, place, and number of people involved. 
As for the rest of the column, 

I don't feel qualified to answer 
him. You see, I no longer read 
Superman comic books, The 
Hardy Boys, nor the speeches of 
Spiro Agnew, upon all of which 
Mr. Treanor seems to depend so 
heavily for his philosophical and 
political analyses. 
Peace, 
Ed Roickle 
l 002 Campeau St. 
Malign Lincoln 

Editor: 
Referring to Mr. Larry Over­Ian's letter in the Observer of Feb. 16. 
l was astonished that he would. make such an attempt to malign the name of such a great President as Abraham Lincoln with such blantantly unqualified statements. He stated that Lin­coln was a definite racist, but fails to give any substantive evidence of the fact. How can anyone allow such a powerful statement as this to be made without being given the proof to back it up? Let's not take this lying down, people! I am asking you to come out and support your statement, Mr. Over! an! 
George Dewe 
Notre Dame, Ind. 


..
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1970 
PAGE 7 

A lrlines stop mall delivery 
Israe I calls for airline safeguards 
WURENLINGEN, Switzer-pinpointing the cause of the Swiss air executives and Swiss stowed in the rear cargo hold. Swissair spokesman. land (UPI) crash and the cabinet ministers federal investigators both re­Swissair executives and fed­The five Americans killed in All baggage except mailbags decided to hold an extraordinary fused to speculate whether an eral officials conferred yesterday the Swissair crash were identi­was examined before being cabinet meeting in Bern on explosion in a sack of mail about imposing even stricter fied as Mr. and Mrs. Weinermann preceded the crash at Wurenling­controls onall Middle East flights 
loaded onto the Tel Aviv bound Monday. In Jerusalem, Israeli of Hamden, Conn., Merton 
en, but they did attach signifi­from Switzerland, especially Meyerson of Stamford, Conn.,
Swissair Coronado jet that crash­Premier Golda Meir met with the 
cabinet for three hours to cance to the fact that everything those to Israel. Swissair flew to Glen Ware of Chicago and a Mr.
ed near here Saturday after an except mail had been either X Tel Aviv as normal Sunday but Lingafelter who was listed onlyexplosion in flight, killing all 4 7 discuss the crash. Afterward, it was announced that Mrs. Meir rayed or examined before load­announced it no longer would as being from "Huntington."
persons aboard, the airlines said 
would make a special address to ing. carry freight or mail to that city. The other passengers in addi­yesterday. 
the Knesset parliament Monday lnve1>tigators scouring the The airline declined to com­tion to the Americans andGovernment investigators said 
on the disaster. crash scene yesterday discovered ment on what new security Israelies were from Switzerlandthe plane apparently was sabo­Political sources said the pieces of the Coronado's "black measures would be enforced. West Germany, Great Britain'taged and nervous European Israeli government would almost box" flight recorder. However, "We don't want to give Belgium, Canada Mexico'airlines reacted swiftly, many of 
certainly call for international they said they initially discover­anyone any help," explained a Senegal and Thailand. ' them announcing they no longer action to safeguard civilian air­ed only tapes of previous flights would carry mail or freight craft flying to Israel. and not the piece recordingdestined for Israel. An Arab 

Arab guerrilla attacks
The crash of the Swissair four Saturday's brief fatal trip.
guerrilla group at first said it engine Coronado jet occurred Theo Kaesling, head of theengineered the blowing up of the just two hours after a bomb federal investigation commissionplane, then later denied it was 

in Europe increasing
exploded in the mail compart­sent to the crash site north ofresponsible for the disaster. 
ment of an Austrian Airlines 
Zurich, said that the pilot had

Five Americans and 13 it took five months to secure the
jetliner en route from Frankfurt reported an explosion at the TEL AVIV (UPI) -Since
lsraelies were among the 38 
to Vienna, ripping a two foot Arab guerrillas first carried their release of the Israeli passengers
back of the plane to the Zurich

passengers killed in the crash. 
hole in the belly of the plane war against Israel into Europe 21 and crew.
airport control tower Saturday

The nine crew members were all and forcing it to return to shortly after takeoff from months ago, their attacks on On Dec. 26, 1968, two Arab Swiss. 
Frankfurt where it landed safely. Zurich. airlines, airports and Israeli of­guerrillas, firing submachine The Swiss government pledg­
guns, attacked an El AI airliner
The plane carried mail bound for A Swissair spokesman said fices have increased steadily in
ed to exert every effort in 
violence. at Athens airport. One Israeli
Israel. some of the mailbags were 
If the crash near Zurich of a passenger was killed. Swiss jetliner bound for Tel Aviv On Feb. 18, 1969, four Arab Saturday is the work of Arab guerrillas armed with sub­

Laotian situation obscure 
terrorists, it will be the worst machine gum, and grenades at­yet. Forty-seven passengers and tacked an El AI airliner at Zurich 
VIENTIANE, Laos (UPI) -U.S. military officials in But the major government crew members, including 13 airport. The second pilot of the The commander of Laotian Vientiane said Saturday no base in that area, at San Thong Israelis, perished. Five Ameri­plane died of wounds received in armed forces hinted yesterday 24 miles southwest of the plain, the attack.
Americans were killed or even cans also were among the vic­
that mass desertion by his troops had no reports on troops move­On Sept. 9, 1969, two
involved in the fighting, but the tims.
prompted the sudden loss of the ments and said it had received 
grenades were thrown into the
embassy confirmed Sunday that A spokesmen for a small Arab 
plain of Jars to North Viet­a Texan, J.C. Maerkl of For neither dead nor wounded at its guerrilla group claimed it was El AI offices in Brussels, injuring namese forces. A U.S. Embassy one airline employee and one
Worth, was killed by North military hospital. responsible. But the major Arab
spokesman said one American 
Vietnamese gunfire. commando organizations said bystanuer.
civilian pilot was killed in the the claim was untrue and the On Nov. 27, an Arab guerrilla 
When asked how he would
fighting. 

bomb attack on the El AI office
Laotian officials had said characterize the current situa­same spokesman later retracted I ,400 government troops based his claim. in Athens killed a 22-year-old
Although based on still tion on the plain, one ranking at the airfield in the center of The first attack came on May Greek boy.
sketchy details of the situation Laotian officer replied, "ob­
the plain fought valiantly but 23, I968. Arab guerrillas hi­On Feb. I 0, 1970, at Munich
on the plain, the reports yester­scure." There was full agreement day contradicted earlier versions were overwhelmed by the North in the military command, how-jacked an El AI jetliner with 38 Airport, three Arab guerrillas, Vietnamese force that outnum­passengers and a crew of ten armed with pistols and hand
of the fighting there Friday and 
bered them four to one and was aboard shortly after takeoff grenades, attacked the passen­
early Saturday. ever, that Communist forces
spearheaded by tanks. from Rome and forced it to land gers and crew of an El AI 
now control the 25 mile long 

in Algeria. jetliner. One Israeli was killed
plateau that is the key to control ­
Open meeting Laotian military spokesmen Twenty non-Israeli passengers and five other Israelis and eight
of northwestern Laos. The plain
said yesterday, however, that the were released the same day but other passengers were wounded.
is about I00 miles north of
North Vietnamese force totaled

SMC 0-C Vientiane, the administrative
about 400 soldiers rather than 

capital of Laos.
6,000 as originally reported.Housing There was no firm report on 
In announcing the death of
where the Laotian troops had

Off-Campus Housing propo­the American pilot, the U.S.
gone.

sals will be discussed at the open Embassy spokesman said, Maerkl meeting of the SMC Student Gen. Uoane Rathikoun, was killed by sniper fire. The Affairs Committee tonight at 6 Laotian commander in chief, American copilot, identified as 
p.m. in Carroll Hall. All admini­said there were no indications of strators, faculty, and students government casualties inthe 
John Ward, took over control are urged to attend and express fighting but one third of the and landed the plane safely at their views. troops on the plain had not been another government base. The agenda for the meeting accounted for since the battle. The spokesman stressed that includes addresses by Mrs. Pet­The other two thirds were 
Maerkl was a civilian but did not rovich, the Director of Housing, reported in defensive positions make that distinction for Ward and Carol Cusick, McCandless either on the western or south­who was identified only b; Hall senator and a member of western edge of the plain. 
name. 
Now Under New Management 
ALUMNI CLUB 
Tuesday 24 February 
6-8 pm 
l.OC S chI itz Free Pizza Hut Pizza 
Happy Hour 6:30-7:30 Every Day 
the Off-Campus Housing Com­mittee. 
According to Cusick, the proposal of the Director of !lousing would permit "a senior not on scholastic or social probation" to apply to live in housing approved by the Hous­ing Office. 
The alternative proposal would allow any 21 year old sophomore, junior or senior with a parental signature to apply, provided that the quota for 0-C students (any number above the 1277 who are to live in the dorms) is not filled. 
The Ohserver erroneously reported on Friday that the Board of Trustees of St. Mary's College would meet on March I. However, the meeting will be for the Executive Committee of the Board and it will be held on March 14. 


SENIOR CLASS FELLOW 
VOTING 

Monday, Feb. 23 & Tuesday, Feb. 24 Dining Halls -Evening Meal Huddle II am -Ipm 
O.C. Office I pm -5 pm (Seniors Only) 
PAGE 8 THB OBSERIIM MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1970 
To Butler with an eight -man squad 
by Jack Schaefer Observer Sports Writer Notre Dame triumphed im­pressively 114-7 8 over West Virginia Saturday night before II,350 fans in the ACC. Austin Carr once again set a new Notre Dame single game scoring record as he popped in 55 points (Carr 
broke his "old" school record of 53 ·set last Monday against Tulane). However, the game was not a very pleasing one for the ~rish. In the process of destroy­Ing West Virginia two of the finest Irish players sustained injuries. Sophomore Doug Gem­mell broke his ankle and is most certainly out for the season. Senior guard Mike O'Connell sprained his ankle and at last 
report he might be out for a week. 
Gemmell had been playing 


Grapplers runners-up 
Jim Hansen and Phil Gustaf­son won individual honors in their respective weight classes but their efforts were not enough to prevent the Notre Dame wrestling team from finishing second in the Wheaton Invitational Tournament held Friday and Saturday in Wheat­on, Illinois. 
Augustana College of Rock Island, Ill., showed that they were the class of the tourney, totaling 74 points to runnerup Notre Dame's 49. Marquette and McMurray finished in a third place tie in the competition with 43 points. 
Hansen notched four straight victories, outpointing his oppo­nent each time, to capture the 
• 
158 pound event in the tourney while Gustafson registered three decisions and a semi-final round pin to cop first place in the heavyweight division. 
Three other Irish grapplers turned in good performances and managed to reach the semi-final round of the tourna­ment. Tom Ciaccio (118) and Ken Ryan (142) both captured third places while Tom Powell picked up a fourth in the 167 pound weight class. 
Notre Dame will oppose the Illinois Institute of Technology this Tuesday at 6 p.m. (not Wednesday as previously an­nounced) in the ACC. The Irish will enter the match with a dual meet record of 3-6. 

good ball for the Irish since getting the starting nod against Illinois in Chicago Stadium on January 31st. Since then the Irish have won eight of eight. Doug gave the Irish mobility and speed which complemented the 
N.D. game plan perfectedly. Gemmell turned in some of his best performances against the better teams and his presence is going to be dearly missed come tounament time. 
O'Connell's injury, though far less serious than Gemmell's, will cost the Irish a valuable reserve for the Butler game. Mike was in the process of turning in what could have been his best game when the injury occurred. He had 7 points, making all three of his shots and hitting his only foul attempt. 
Saturday's starting five for the Irish included John Gallagher, Jay Ziznewski and Mike O'Connell-graduating seniors playing their last game at home. Gallagher put in two quick buckets and finished the game with 6 points. He has turned in a number of good performances for the Irish and throughout his four years he has added a lot to 
the character of the team. "Big Ziz" has had some great mo­ments while subbing up front. Jay was especially effective in the Villanova game while playing opposite Howard Porter. One thing that can be said about Jay is that the crowd loves him. O'Connell has had his ups and downs but his performances of late have been very strong. He has helped to pull quite a few games out of the fire, notably this year's big Marquette game. 
Good news for the Irish is the continued improvement of Jackie Meehan. Jack had 13 assists as he continually sparked the Irish attack. Meehan is adept at getting the ball to Carr and if he continues his fine passing the Irish will be tough. 
Austin Carr just keeps break-
FG  FT  REB  PTS  
Jones  5-13  3-5  21  l3  Symons  
Gallagher  3-7  0-2  1  6  Woods  
Ziznewski  3-4  2-4  5  8  Heitz  
Carr  20-37  15-18  l3  55  Hummell  
O'Connell  3-3  1-1  0  7  Robinson  
Gemmell  2-4  0-2  3  4  Kintz  
Catlett  3-4  0-0  5  6  Lowe  
Meehan  0-3  2-3  3  2  Price  
Sinnott  3-4  1-1  3  7  Truell  
Hinga  2-2  2-3  0  6  Wooten  
TOTALS  44-81  26-39  54  114  TOTALS  

Shooting: Notre Dame 44 of 81 for 54 per cent,· T
urnovers: West Virginia 18, Notre Dame 16. 
West Virginia 29 of 83 for 35 per cent. 



Austrailian star of CCC 
Southern Illinois, led by double-winner senior Alan Robinson, captured the Central Collegiate Conference meet Saturday in the Convocation Center. The Salukis' 85\/z points nosed out a surprising Air Force squad with 83 points and a segment of the Kansas team which was in contention with 
77. Trailing these leaders were teams from Eastern Michigan with 69,_ Western Michigan with 50\/z, Kent State with 46 and Drake with 45. The Irish finish­ed eighth with a mediocre 33 points. 
Robinson's victories in the mile in 4:09.8 and his meet record 8:44.8 in winning the Two-Mile were two of Southern Illinois' five firsts. They also captured the Distance Medley, the Triple Jump, and the High Jump. The Air Force squad won only the 300-Yd. Run but relied on consistent scoring to close fast. Kansas' 77 points was easily the most impressive total because they left much of their team at home to rest for the Big Eight Championships next week. Kansas' Julio Meade broke his own meet record in the 440 yd. run with a "good" 48.3 and anchored a winning Mile Relay team. Doug Knop their best shotputter easily won his event with a 59' 4" effort. 
The only Irish winner of the meet was Rick Wohlhutter who took the 600 Yd. Run going away in a time of I: 10.1. The Irish also took third in the 
35-Pound Weight Throw: 1-AI Schoterman (KS) 62-9%; 2-Warren Converse (WM); 3-Bill Penny (K). New meet record betters 53-8% by Mike Cross (WM). 1969. 
Distance Medley Relay: 1-Southern Illinois (Glenn Ujiye, Larry Mobley, Ken Nalder, Alan Robinson) 9:51.8. Triple Jump: 1-0bed Gardiner (SI) 48-0, 2-Don 
Miller (SI), 3-Kevin McAudiffe (NO). 
High Jump: 1-Mike Bernard (SI) 6-9, 2-Don Lattin (AF). 3-Craig Glendening (NI). New meet record, betters 6-SY. by Alonzo Littlejohn (WM, 1962) and Mitch Livingston (SIU, 1967). 
Mile Run: 1-Aian Robinson (SI) 4:09.8, 2-Dave Wottle (BG). 3-Ken Dawson (KS). 
60-Yard High Hurdles: 1-Bill Tipton (EM) :07.3, 2-Scott Sharpe (Dr), 3-Paul Bauer (AF). Ties meet and ACC record held by Chuck LeMon (WM, 1966). Jol>'l 
Smith (CM) 1966, Dick Kamischke (WM, 1968). George Byers (K, 1969). Byers alone held the ACC record. Two-Mile Relay: 1-Drake (Warren Whitted, Bob Becker, Ray Dunn, Dave Nauman) 7:44.0. 60-Yard Dash: 1-Len Turner (KS) :06.3, 2-Homer Heard (WS), 3-0iden Wallace (WM). 
440-Yard Dash: 1-Jullo Meade (K) :48.3, 2-Marv Foster (K), 3-Dick VanDame (AF). Ties meet record set by Ross MacKenzie (SIU, 1968) and breaks ACC record he established last year of :48.7. 
IIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Mike O'Connell receives the se­nior class Most Valuable Player Award during halftime of Satur­day's game. 
300-Yard Dash: 
ing records. Carr hit 20 of 37 from the floor (practically an off-night for Austin) and IS of 18 from the foul line. His 55 point tally was another N.D. record. Carr also had another good night off the boards as he pulled down thirteen rebounds. 
Collis Jones was outstanding in the rebounding department; he had 21 rebounds to go along with his 13 points. Tom Sinnott also had a good night scoring seven points. Sinnot could become a very important man this week. He has been a strong rebounder and good shooter and seems to be the likely replace­ment for Gemmell. Also, Sin­not's ball-handling could take some of the pressure off the Irish if Meehan gets into foul trouble while O'Connell is injured. 
NCAA tournament bids come 
out this week and on the 
strength of their 19-5 record the 
N.D. team appears to be almost certain of a berth. 
FG  FT  REB  PTS  
2-9  2-3  4  6  
6-13  1-2  11  l3  
5-9  3-6  7  13  
6-19  2-2  6  14  
6-14  2-5  4  14  
1-3  1-2  0  3  
2-5  6-8  6  10  
1-7  2-4  3  10  
0-1  0-1  I  0  
0-3  1-2  0  1  
29-83  20-35  42  78  


Two-Mile and Distance Medley Relays and NO's Kevin McAuliffe took third in the Triple Jump. The host trackmen were severely handicapped by the injury to Mike McMannon, the versatile performer, who would have had an excellent shot at both the Triple and Broad Jump events. Mike's ankle injury will force him to miss at least two weeks of action. How soon he will be back is depend­ent on his personal progress but it is hoped he can make it back for the tail-end of the indoor 
season. 
The Notre Dame trackmen 
will be at home again next 
Saturday to entertain the team 
from Miami of Ohio. 
1-Fred Rock (AF) :31.6, 2-Brent 
Slay (Dr), 3-Ron Murphy (Ky St.). 600-Yard Run: 1-Rick Wohlhuter (NO) 1:10.1, 2-Bob Anderson (CM). 3-John Parrigo (AF). 
880-Yard Run: 1-Bryan MacEiroy (K) 1:51.2, 2-Gienn Ujive (SI), 3-Jack Magelssen (WM). Breaks meet record of 1:51.6 by Pete Farrell (NO, 1968) and ACC record of 1:53.4 by John Brady (NO, 1969). 
1,000-Yard Run: 1-Eric Nesbitt (EM) 2:10.4, 2-Roger Kathol (KU) 3-Ken Nalder (SIU). Two-Mile Run: 1-Aian Robinson (SI) 8:41.8, 2-John Jones (AF). 3-Ed Norris (KS). Break meet record of 
8:49.9 by Oscar Moore (SI, 1967), and ACC record of 
9:01.2 by Ed Norris ( KS, 1969). Shot Put: 1-Doug Knop (K) 59-4, 2-George Tyms (NI), 3-Rich Bilder (NI). Long Jump: 1-Thurmond Kirkland (EM) 23-4%, 2-Keith Swanston (EM). 3-0bed Gardiner (SI). Mile Relay: 1-Kansas (Marv Foster, Mike Larimore, Randy Julian, Julio Meade) 3:20.4. Pole Vault: 1-Larry Robards (WM). 15-6%; 2-Phil Cordina (Dr), 3-Larry Biskner (EM). 
Team Scores: 1. Southern Illinois (SI) 85%; 2. Air Force (AF) 83; 3. Kansas (K) 77; 4. Eastern Michigan (EM) 69; 5. Western Michigan (WM) 50%; Kent State (KS) 46; 7. Drake (Dr) 45; 8. Notre Dame (NO) 33; 9. Northern Illinois (Nl) 25. 


