
Vol. V, No. 51 
History Dept. decides on three profs 
by Dave Lammers the University of Minnesota, and released the following statement are burdensome for other than dures and expectations. In myteaches a course in German His­to The Observer:
The tenure and promotion economic reasons. But the finan­own case, my scholarly achieve­
tory, a freshman survey course, "It was with some dismay
committee of the history depart­cial crisis exists and any discus­ments are respectable by Notre 
and a senior seminar. that I read in yesterday's Obser­
ment has decided not to pro­sion of such issues must take Dame standards but not out­
Carl Estabrook and John Wil­ver that I had been "fired," since
mote three of its junior faculty place within that context. standing. One of the ironies r::i 
liams are two members of the I had devoted some time the
members. Carl Estabrook, John "2. There is an equally wide­the present situation is that I 
Williams and Donald Mattheisen, history department that are con­night before to explaining to have little time for public
spread pattern of politically-or all assistant professors in the 
private discussion of this matter
sidered to be outspoken in their your reporter the technical dis­history department, will fulfill criticisms of the political order. tinction between dismissal and owing to a rapidly approaching their present contract obliga­Estabrook received his under­non-renewal of contract. In my deadline connected with my ap­tions before leaving Notre Dame. graduate and graduate degrees own case and in that of Pro­pearance on the program at the 
Mattheisen and Williams are con­from Harvard University, and is fessor Mattheisen, the advance December meeting of the Ameri­tracted through the 1971-72 aca­an expert in the history of the notice of more than a year is no can Historical Association. Thus demic year, while Estabrook's Middle Ages. Estabrook declined small courtesy in view of the I am going to be forced to hide to comment on his dismissaJ at current market for academic
contract ends at the end of the from my friends as well as my present year. this time, as did Professor flesh. enemies during the next few The decisions on promotion Mattheisen. "The department of history weeks. 
and tenure are made by a com­John Williams did under­has offered no explanation for "4. Another source of embar­mittee of the members of the graduate work at Tulane Univer­its action and I have asked for rassment is the fact that I would department, and must be re­sity, attended YaJe University none. One can speculate that the have ambiguous feelings about viewed by the Arts and Letters for graduate studies, and spent a reasons were political, economic, accepting tenure at Notre Dame Dean Frederick Crosson and year at the London School of personal, or some combination under the best of circumstances. finally by the Provost. After five Economics. Williams presently of reasons, but one can only Prof. Estabrook Contrary to my originaJ expecta­years a member of the faculty is teaches courses in economic his­speculate. In this context the tions and to what would seem to 
either not rehired or is given tory and urban history. following observations seem ap­inspired purges at campuses be inherent in its potentiaJ, Our propriate:
tenure. Both Williams and In the case of Jonathan Zis­across the country. The indivi­Lady's ship seems likely to drift 
"1. There is widespread finan­
Mattheisen have taught at the kind, another Assistant Professor dual circumstances vary and so on in the wake of other institu­
cial crisis in private universities, 
university for five years, while in the History Department, the do the official explanations, but tions, listing perhaps more to the 
leading to cutbacks or freezes of
Estabrook is in his second year promotion and tenure com­the numbers involved are suffi­right than in the previous at Notre Dame. mittee of the History Depart­faculty at many institutions. cient to call into question uni­decade, but going nowhere in This raises questions about prior­
Donald Mattheisen, not consi­ment suspended decision until a versity pretensions to academic terms of distinction in scholar­dered to be a politically active later date. ities and no doubt provides an freedom and to "free and open ship or academic reform. The excuse to get rid of people who
professor, received his Ph.d from Yesterday Professor Williams discourse." apparent intention to scuttle the "3. Standards and procedures experimental college program (a for awarding tenure vary from modest dinghy that some of us
Ross tells of dying patient's need 
place to place, from department had thought to tie on to this (which requires active participa­to department, and from year to becaJmed vessel, in hopes ofbody when one is close to death
by Art Ferranti 
tion by the interviewer), and year. There are a few depart­catching a favorable breeze) can­and that the dying person not cels any reason that I have for
Mrs. Elisabeth Ross, author of only knows that he is dying but that of a child with toys and ments at Notre Dame where the 
On Death and Dying, spoke to a that he knows when. pictures. suspicion that other than pro­wanting to remain here apart capacity audience in the Library Mrs. Ross pointed out that Mrs. Ross concluded by fessionaJ criteria entered into from sheer economic necessity, Auditorium last night on the the most important thing a dy­stating that working and helping these matters would never arise. which is not a very good reason needs of the dying patient as the dying people is a give and History is not one of these de­at all.
ing human has to hold on to is 
part of the ND-SMC Academic take process and that it gives one partments, but then it is not a "The defects of our present
hope. She specifically differen­
Commission's Theology of a good feeling to give a little field that lends itself to precise academic "combination of feud­
tiated between the hope of the 
Death series. hope to a fading human being. definitions of scholarly proce­
living and the hope of the dying, (Continued on page 3) Mrs. Ross spoke from the which is for others or for their experience gained by interview­
own saJvation. But the main ing and speaking with 500 dying 

Amendment brings reaction 
thing an interviewer must not do patients. She said that in the is to try to project his own beginning of her work, the staffs hopes on the patient. He felt that the only Academic Commission, through
by Dave McCarthy 
argument against the
of the hospitals were reluctant She also said that the patient the necessity of frequettt visits to let her speak to their dying needs to know that the physi­The controversial amendment amendment was that it would to the peoples' representatives to 
cut down the efficiency of the
patients. cian or the interviewer will never attached to the $35,000 try a little harder to have a 
Student Union, but he said there 
When she finally was allowed abandon him. They need some­allocation that the Senate balanced speakers program," he to s:~c thei. patients, Mrs. Ross one to love and, more impor­approved for the Student Union, would be "No problem in said. 
efficiency."
found that they were very recep­tantly, to speak with. requiring the Academic Thrasher remarked that the "It's the most ridiculous piece 
tive to her and wanted to talk Mrs. Ross then outlined five Commission to obtain Senate people in the Union were of legislation I've seen," said
with ;;omeune. Her project began stages of emotion a patient goes consent before inviting a speaker "political animals." "Naturally," over five years ago with a group through, citing vivid examples wuo Will cost more iilan $300 Student Body Vice President he said, "they will favor people of theoiogy students who had to for aJI. The patient first exper­has caused diverse reactions Mark Winings. "It sets' the who will speak for their point of do a paper on death. Instead she iences denial, then anger, bar­bet ween some Senators and Senate back 15 or :w years." view." got involved. She said, "Dying is gaining, depression, and, finally, Student Government/Student Winings continued, "It will 
the biggest crisis man has to Union officials. hopelessly bog down the whole Bob Pohl, Director of the 
acceptance. She said that this Student Union, said, "It's a badf'r ed Giuffrida, the Stay operation of the Studentface." This is one of her reasons last stage was not resignation but 
for getting involved. Senator who proposed the Government." He termed it a amendment from the practicalthen again it is not joy. The point of getting things done."
amendment explained, "The "backward move" and noted ,Later, her reason for staying patient, though, seems to exper­Pohl explained that most of the
on this program was the desper­underlying theory of it is a move that the Senate has other ways
ience no pain in this stage and 

of wielding its power (e.g. booking for second semesterate desire of a dying person to die in peace. 
impeachment). would be done during the monthspeak with her. She said that she There are three languages of

had learned that there is no reaJ 
More dismissals 
Informed sources claimed that Father Raymond Runde and Dr. Michael Hinckemeyer, both pro­fessors in the St. Mary's educa­tion department, will not have their contracts renewed. Al­though there has been no offic;ai notification from the St. Mary's administration, sources disclosed that both teachers were notified Monday. A faculty member said the reason that the dism:s.<als were occuring now is due to a AAUP (American Association of University Professors) ruling that faculty with two years <'I more "It's a hampering or closing of long Christmas vacation. At that the dying. She said they are the free speakers policy ... It has time Union officials will have an 
service  on  a  campus  must  be  
notified  six  months  prior  to  
their dismissal.  

verbal English, sy~bolical 
nothing at all to do with fis!laJ opportunity to work hard and responsibility," he said. free of interruption. The Stay Senator Tom Thrasher, amendment will hamper 
who supported the amendment operations, for the Senate will said, "Some students around not reconvene until after here are going to have to make a Christmas vacation. 

Rally change 
"Often you have to make a come to Notre Dame and what 
decision about what speakers 
quick decision on a speaker," soeakcrs do not come." 
Pohl said. "The Student Union Regarding these decision was set up to handle theseThe pep rally before this 
makers he added, "It is better to things."
week's LSU game will be held in h1Ve an elected representative "They (Senate) think theStepan Center instead of the Tom Thrasher 
who has to submit to the open speakers policy wasAthletic and Convocation Cen to change the direction of the students wrath ... The closer you unbalanced; they obviouslyter, it was announced last night. 
Student Government awJy from can get the decision making think they can present a betterFeatured speakers are to be the bureacracy and strong process back to the people the balanced program." Pohi notedNotre Dame guard Gary Kos and centralized Student Government better you can be." Thrasher that conservative speakers suchhead coach Ara Parseghian. 
that fails to reach the student noted that Ul'ion officials are as Gerhart Niemeyer and Kevin 
around here." Giuffrida cited appointed, not elected. Philips had spoken this semester. 
the proposed new Constitution Consequently they do not have Others, such as William F. 
as another trend toward strong to submit to "sl udents' wrath." Buckley are under consideration 
centralization. ''It will persuade the for next semester. 
7HR OBSEIWER.
Page 2 Thursday, November 19, 1970 
··-·---··--------------------------­
Pre-Law soc1e\y Villanova University School of Law Vice-Dean Geroge Bruch is sche­duling interviews for prospective 


No amendment procedure passed
students on Monday, November 23 in Room 20!:> Business Big. -sign-up in Room 101 0' 
WASHINGTON (UPI) · Free dent authority to establish re­The House first voted 204 to would have been allowed to 
Shaughnessy. On the spot scholar­
trade advocates came within an strictions on other foreign goods IH9 to tentatively block the no strikl' hut not add to ,.
ship aid will be made available to students with outstanding qualifi­
eyelash of scuttling a controver­if they hurt domestic industry. a mendment procedure. Then various sections of the bill. 
catigns and need for aid. 
sial bill yesterday that could lead For a time, the bill was in with quite a few members 
Crypt ­Discount Records 
The New Stock r~ow Includes "Jesus Christ Superstar" 
LaFortune-Fiesta Lounge _ Hours 2-5 PM 
0 n stock next weeI< will be 
Steve Stills and the new Chicago 
to import quotas on a broad range of foreign products, but they finally lost in a topsy-turvy House session. 
The test of strength came on the procedural question of whether the bill could be amended. After reversing itself in a series of votes the House decided no amendments could be offered to the measure which would set up shoe and textile import quotas and give the Prcsi-
I need riders to Southern Cal ­Leave rJov. 24 or 25 
Call Ten·y 
233-5475 
serious jeopardy. Rep. Wilbur Mills (D-Ark.). Chairman of the House Ways and Me< ns Com­mittee and manager of the trade hill, had said he would not allow it to be considered if amend­ments could bL' offered to tlie floor. 
After the turbulent session that had members sittin~:, on the edge of their s~ats, till' House began a scheuuled eight hours of debate on the measure. Passage was expected without a major hitch today now that opponents have made their play and lost. 
Lost: One doth covered journaL black, reward. Call Peter: il6:l3 
switching sides, this decision lost 
on a second roll call, 200 to 193. 
Had the bill's oppcnents suc­
ceeded on that vote to op,~n the 
measure to amendments, it more 
than likely would have died. 
Hut on a third vote, and after they were warned that if Mills sent the bill back to the com­mittee it would be dead for this year, members voted 203 to I ll6 to go along with the no amend­ment procedure. 
Rep. Sam Gibbons (D-l"la.), led the fight to open the bill up to changes on the floor. lie said it was too important a measure not to give members a chance to vote on .separate sections. Under his unsuccessful plan, members 




Whydoesn't 
General Electric talk about thermal pollution when they
talk about nuclear power plants? 
General Electric pioneered the 
development of nuclear power plants 
in 1957. 

Right from the beginning, we felt 
that the greatest advantage of nuclear 
power was environmental. Unlike 
fossil-fueled power plants, nuclear 
plants don't burn anything to make 
electricity. And where there's no fire, 
there's no smoke. 
But there's a possibl~ 
disadvantage as well. It, too, is 

environmental. Thermal effects. 
We recognize it. 

One GE advertisement you may have seen recently pointed out that "all nuclear power plants discharge heat, as do fossil-fueled plants. America's utilities, with many years of experience, are working on thermal problems at nuclear sites on a plant-by-plant basis." 
General Electric does talk about thermal effects. Because they are important, but also because we feel the facts about them are perhaps too little known. 
Few people realize, for example, that federal law requires utilities to 
. operate their plants within strict temperature limits. Thirty states have even stricter laws. Utilities are spending millions of dollars on dilution flow systems, cooling ponds and cooling towers to comply. 
But, in addition, utilities are sponsoring basic research on the problem of heat exchange and its effect on aquatic life. More than 97 utilities have been financially involved in over 300 such studies. And each one adds a little to man's scientific understanding of the problem. 
Some interesting things have already come of it. For one, it's been found that, in some cases, adding heat to water can actually be beneficial. Warm irrigation water has extended growing seasons. Warm water has created new wintering ponds along waterfowl migration routes. 
Power-plant discharge water is reviving Long Island's oyster trade. Florida is using it to grow shrimp and lobster. In Texas, it's increasing the weight of commercial catfish by as much as SOD%. 
Listing these benefits is not to beg the issue. Thermal effects remain a tough problem to solve at some sites. Each plant must be considered 
GENERAL (;Jj ELECTRIC 
·= 
individually, in its own environment, 
and this is being done. 
General Electric, the electric 
utilities and environmentalists will 
continue to work. Work hard. 
Because we think the advantages 
of nuclear rower far outweigh the 
disadvantages. 
Why are we running this ad? 
We're running this ad, and 
others like it. to tell you the things 
General Electric is doing to solve 
the problems of man and his 
environment today. 
The problems concern us 
bet·ause they concern you. We're a 
business and you are potential 
customers and employees. 
But there's another, more important reason. These problems will affect the future of this country and this planet. We have a stake in that future. As businessmen. And, simply, as people. 
We invite your comments. Please write to General Electric, 570 Lexington Ave., New York, N.Y. 10022. 
. On the first vote of the day, free traders, opponents of closed rule procedures and other foes joined forces to jolt Mills and those supporting the bill. 
Mills, a master tactician, rarely loses a vote and it was the first time since the early 1950's that the House had voted to open any kind of trade bill for amendments. 

News media 
New Voice Publications pub­lisher of the yet-to-be-published New Voice news magazine sub­mit ted its official charter touay to the Vice President of Student Affairs and the Student Union. 
In the charter, the group de­tailed its purpose and outlined its structure. A charter is neces­sary for recognition as an ofticial campus organization. 
The formation of The New Voice was announced early last week on WSN D. campus radio station, by senior Chuck Ryan, the magazine's first publisher. Ryan stated the reasons for founding The 'Vew Voice. citing alleged inadequacies of the pre­sent campus media. 
"A numher of students finally decideu to give a formal voice to the protests of many members of the c:ommunity over the past months concerning the some­times dishonest, often inacsurate and irrelevant, and always sloppy efforts of the current daily publication on campus," Ryan stated. 
Sophomore Jim Holsinger will be the editor of the publication and senior Ed McCartin staff coordinator in the "streamlined" structure. The position of Busi­ness Manager, the only other post specifically mentioneu in the charter, has yet to be filled. 
Holsinger, commenting fur­ther, stated that he hopes to be able to produce the first issue by Christmas, but notrd diffkulties, principally technicaL "There will be a lot of minor problems which I think we can overcome. We still have to find the financial hacking and decide on a prin­ter," he said. 
Holsinger said he received a 
(continued on page 3) 

Toniaht! 
CAC's Cinema '71 Presents Bunuel's 
"The Exterminating Angel" 
(winner oftlze Critics' Prize, Cannes and the Grand Prize, Molltreal Film Festiml} 
7:00 & 9:00 Engineering A ud. Admission $1.00 Cinema '71 Patrons Frr!e 
WANTED: 
Typing to do in my home. Reasonable rates ­272-5637 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may 
be purchased for $8 from The Ob­server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 


Thursday, November 19, 1970 Page 3
THB Q~ 



Various lectures appearing at Notre Dame 
Byrnes

Tarn Fisher Kuenneldt-Leddihn 
and the American Council of
"The Dreyfus Affair: The
Nathaniel Tarn, British poet Florrie Fisher, reformed drug Learned Societies. The ObsefJ!er yesterday re­
Twentieth Century Begins" will
and anthropologist, will read addict, will speak tonight as the He is the author of several ported incorrectly the date of 
be the subject of a lecture by Dr.
from his recent poetry this last of the three speakers in the books including The United the lecture by European Jour­
Robert F. Byrnes when he ap­
afternoon at 4 pm in Carroll Hall StudeP.t Union Academic Com­States and r:,rstem Europe and nalist Erik von Kuehneldt­
pears as the second speaker for
·in the Madel eva Building at St. missions's Drug Conference PobedonostseJ!: His Life and Leddihn, which will be at 8: 15 
the Humanistic Studies Lectures
Mary's. series. Thought and was general editor tonight, not last night as was 
at Saint Mary's College, Thurs­
Tarn, who read here last year The speech, title "My Life on of a multi-volume study, East reported in The ObsefJ!er. Led­
day night, Novem her 19. Dr.
at the Sophomore Literary Drugs", will be a description of Central Europe Under the Com­dihn, invited by the Orestes 
Byrnes will speak at 8:00pm in
Festival, is currently teaching the speaker's extensive ex­munists. Bronson Society, is a noted jour­
the Little Theatre and his talk is 
courses at Rutgers University in perience with drugs and drug The Humanistic Studies Lec­nalist, novelist and political com­
open to the public.

structural anthropology and users. Miss Fisher was an addict tures were initiated under a grant mentator, and an expert on Rus­
A specialist in Russian and
poetics. for 23 years. from the Lilly Endowment to sian Literature.
East European history, Dr.
According to John Matthias, The speech will take place at demonstrate the vitality of the
Byrnes is presently distinguished 
English Professor at Notre 8 pm in the Library Auditorium. Western tradition.
professor of history at Indiana
Dame, "The jacket note on his Admission is free. 

first volume is still very valid: 'Poetry to Tarn is a r~ligion of alnguage. In this discipline each poem attempts to create a mean­ingful ritual on behalf of an ancient, perennial world, which owns his main allegiance ... The ritual's function is to keep alive its timeless relevance to every­thing we do.'" 

Voice speaks 
(Continued from page 2) 
healthy response to the an­nouncement of the newly­formed publication and said that "as many as twenty persons" have agreed to work in some capacity. "They arc talented and concerned people who I'm sure will enable us to present the caliber of publication this com­munity needs," he said. 
The new charter was not spe­cific concerning the frequency of publication, but promised "regular" issues. "The New Voice was originally intended as a weekly publication, with sup­
plementary  editions  for  special  
issues  at  the  discretion  of the  
publisher and editor."  

New Voice Publications has no permanent office as yet. Room 305 Sorin Hall is tempo­rarily serving in this capacity. 
When contacted for his com­ments on the announcement of the New Voice's charter submis­sion and on Ryan's statements, Observer editor Glen Corso said, "Mr Ryan's charges are specious and dishonest. He's annoyed he­cause one of our stories on the Student Senate failed to con­form to his own peculiar taste of journalism. The new editor of this publication should, more than anyone, realize the prob­lems The OhserJ!er faces. r'm disappointed in him and I'm truly sorry that he's chosen to go dong with this group of sob-sisters. from wi1al I know of the journalistic abilities of the publisher and staff coordinator, I seriously doubt the New Voice will he able to attain a fraction of the objectivity The Observer ;JOSSeSSCS." 
Estabrook 
(Continued ji·om page 1) 
alism and trade unionism," to quote Kingman Brewster's des­cription of the departmental and tenure systems, merit the most thorough public discussion and debate. But, for the reasons out­lined above and speaking for myself alone, I would prefer that the' 1 di~c~~sion took place in the context of the larger issues in­volved and not of my own parti­cular circumstances. 
TYPING 
A 11y material, any iengtlz, charts and diagrams. $.50/page. Will pick up and deliver. Call Connie Paden 289-0177 after 4 p.m. 

University, Bloomington. On the Indiana faculty since 1956, he has served as chairman of the 

Co-ed study nears end
history department and as the first director for the University's International Affairs Center and by Ann Therese Darin to meet in mid-March. for the Russian and East Euro­"I believe that it is an advan­
Although the presentation of 
pean Institute. tage for the students and the
the coeducation study being pre­
Dr. Byrnes is a graduate of faculty groups to discuss the
pared by Dr. Lewis Mayhew and 
Amherst College and Harvard recommen.dations before the
Dr. Rosemary Park is still over a 
University and held <' senior fel­Boards meet," Sister said, "so
month away, the time table for 
lowship in the Russian Institute that when they meet a more
action on t"1e proposal has al­
of Columbia University. He has intelligent discussion can ensue."
ready been ;; mounced. 

traveled extensively within the AccordinG to Sr. Alma Peter, She added that although Drs. 
Soviet Union and has done con­acting president of St. Mary's, Park and Mayhew have alreadysiderable research on the history after the proposal is presented to said that implementation of the of the area as a participant in the the presidents of the two schools recommendation would take exch;mgc of scholars between by its Dec. 25 deadline, it will be from two to five years, somethe Soviet Academy of Sciences given to a financial consultant. definite if minor areas of imple­
Nathaniel tam 
Working with the financial of­mentation can be accomplished ficers of the two institutions, he by September I 97 1. will examine the proposal "care­

Israel seeks U.S. support 

fully to put a price tag on it."  
(UPI)  -Israel is seeking pro­ neighborir.g villages.  "Sometime  in  January,"  
mises of continued U.S. military  stated  Sr.  Alma,  "the  recom­ 
support and  a more  permanent  Syria's  strongman,  Lt.  Gen.  mendation  will  be  returned  to  
Suez Canal  truce  before it will  Hafez Ass:.td, who led a bloodless  the offices of the two presidents  
return  to  Middle  East  peace  coup last weekend, took control  for distribution in the manner in  
talks, diplomatic sources  in Tel  of  the  country  Wednesday  by  which they see fit."  
Aviv said yesterday.  naming  himself  premier  and  Sister plans to release the pro­ 
The  sources  said  Israel  was  Baath  Party  leader.  In  Beirut,  posal  to  the  faculty, students,  
asking for sophisticated military  political  sources  said  the  move  and  other  members  of the col­ 
equipment  on  easy credit terms  meant an end to Syria's hardline  lege community such as alumnae  
in  Washington  talks  yesterday  isolationist  past  and  increased  and  parents for  their examina­ 
between  Foreign Minister Abba  chances of peace in the Middle  tion.  After  discussion by  these  
Eban and U.S. Secretary of State  East.  They  predicted  Syria's  interest groups, the proposal will  
William P. Rogers.  ousted Marxist leaders would go  be  forwarded  to  the  executive  



They said Israel also wanted boilnls of trustees of Notre
into exile in North Africa. more economic assistance as one Dame and St. Mary's. They plan of the conditions for going into 
,................•...
talks under the auspices of the 
U.N. special Mideast Envoy, e ND • SMC Jr. Cl•ss Presents . : 
Gunnar V. Jarring. 

• lSU WEEKEND • 
At the United Nations Wed-• • nesday, Jarring issued a special • • appeal to Israel to return to the FRIDAY NOV. 20 -INDIAr~A ARMORY discussions. The United Nations • $5.00 PER COUPLE-FREE BEER • said 1arring will return to his • • regular post as Swed~n's ambas-• • sador to Moscow until the .peace .Buses leave circle: 8:30-8:50-9:15 Music by: • 
t a!k~ can be resudmed. But 1t sa~d •
1

a~~~~~e~as rea y to return at ' 
The diplomatic maneuvering came among these other Mideast developme.lts: 
Damascus radio reported that new fighting broke out in nor­thern Jordan Wednesday be­tween Palestinian guerrillas and Jordanian government troops. It said government troops used ar­tillery and machine guns in the fighting that broke out near the Syrian-J ordan border town of Ramtha and spread to several 
WE TAKE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO THANK NOTRE DAME & SMC FOR THE \\ONDERFUL RECEPTION AND HOPE YOU CONTINUE TO PATRONIZE 
ROMA'I PIZZA LOUNCE 
219 !\1. MICHIGAN TEL 234-3258 
IIOOM DELIVERY -DISCOUNT 21% 4-7 PM DAILY 
(with this ad) 

presented bY 'tudent utlion social commission & a~c Melting Pot 
also aprearing: 

CHICAGO 

715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500• ZIP: 60611 
Safes tax where applicable 
saturday, nov. 21 in the ace 8:30pm tickets $5, $4, $2 on sale at student union ticket office and dining halls 


711E OBSERfiEit Thursday, November 19, 1970
Page 4 




THE OBSERVER 
JO:IN E. KNORR, Executive Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3 1966 
All independent Student Newspaper 
GLEN S. CORSO, Editor-ia-Ctief 
"No country is free where the public offi­
cials are too cowardly or too corrupt to 
protect the fundamental rights of loyal 
and law-abiding citizei!S." 
W.R. Hl?arst, August 21, 1936 
BRUCE RIECK, Busiaess "¥1anager 
NOTRE DA:\IE INDIANA 

Finally 
It is with no small amount of satisfaction that we greet tile Krashna administration's decision to hold the constitutional referendum. Since the abolition of the Senate and the general reconstruction of student government was one of the main planks in Mr. Krashna's and Mr. Wining's campaign platform we had expected action to be taken long before this. When the Senate elections were ddayed early this semester, w e along with many others assumed it was done so that a new constitution could be presented to the Senate at its first meeting. The assumotion was unfounded. 
We do recognize that the administration may have run into unexpected snags and consequently was unable to act quickly. However the process was started soon after Krashna took office last year, thereby giving him and his associates more than enough time to iron out any difficulties. The argument can be made that organizations who were planning to ask studen;t government for money may have been in severe straits if they had been forced to wait for the new constitution to be approveu. Yet here it is practically Thanksgiving and still the budget has not gotten final approval. 
Despite the procrastinations on the part of the present student govenment we still feel the case for abolition of the Senate is valid. The body si quite bluntly a legislative sandbox. There are some serious and concerned people in it, but most aspire to it in order to have a platform from which to vent their personal spleen. 
The HPC is a far more constructive body. These men are used to doing things and getting them done. They seem for the most part, to have little patience for the types of games in which Senators indulge. We then wish to congratulate the administration for its achievement in drawing up a new constitution and urge each student to vote in favor of it. 
~~~=~~~~$~~$~~~~~~$~$~$::::::::~==~==~~~~~~~~~~~~~~===~~=~~~~~~=:~~~~~$$$$$!~!~$$$!::::::$~$$$$$~$~~ 
Fred Giufftrida 

The following is the first in a series ofcolumns on the new constitution. Mr. Giufridda is a slay senator from Lyons Hall. 
Since last March a quiet battle has been fought. The subject: the fate of the student senate. The battle has been marked by the conspicuous absence of any solid analysis of the problems which confront the Senate and Student Government. That analysis is due. 
The Senate, as things are now, cannot be an effective part of Student Government. That much is apparent. What, then, is the source of its weakness? To start with, it lacks the support and confidence of the student body, and of course no legislative body can function without popular support. Secondly, it has lost the confidence of the executive branch of student government, and the experience of the last two years shows that the senate cannot producewithout viable executive leadership. Finally, and most importantly, the Senate lacks any real power. By "power'' I don't mean concrete power to rule the community ·-that'd be nice, but unfortunately TMH has shown some reludance to acquiesce to such a move-but the power over internal affairs of student government, which is now exercised by those few men in LaFortune Center whom we shall endearingly call the poobahs. It appears, in fact, that the first two problems of the senate are direct results of this lack of power. 
The question with which we are now faced is: how can the proposed student government constitution seek to remedy the weakness and ineffectiveness of the Senate. Even a quick glance will show that the new constitution has done nothing but eliminate the senate and transfer its meager powers to the new body, the President's Council. In fact, it has weakened the powers of the legislature, for the President's Council is no legislative body at all (with the exception of its budget dealings) and can only recommend to the executive branch of student government. The names and personalities have been changed, but the important problem of power has been ignored. 
Until now, the arguments for and against the new constitution have centered around the question: which body is better equipped to serve the students? These arguments however, belie the whole problem, for what difference does it make who is better equipped ~o exercise powers that don't exist'! If this is infact the case, the same fair will await the President's Council as has already overtaken the Senate. Hence, the idea of the proposed constitution as a radical changt! is rediculous, for in the larger 

Bold New Direction 
swpe of things, it is only a minor adjustment. 
This is not to deny the possibility of radical change in student government, but rather to assert the stark necessity of such a change in a bold new direction. 
Spring at this University marks the annual 
appearance of that occasionally migratory animal, 
presidentis candites. After the customary flow of 
loose promises, the victorious candidate returns to 
hibernation, appearing only when he needs a show of 
public support. There are aiways feeble attempts at 
communication, but even while these attempts are 
made, student government is continuing to 
consolidate its powers of decision in the offices of 
LaFortune. The proposed constitution is another 
example of this consolidation because, whatever else 
it may purport to do, it retains the ultimate power of 
decision in the executive branch. The average student, 
on the other hand, hears nothing about student 
government's actions and furthermore realizes his 
impotence in altering the workings of student 
government. His natural reaction is to forget about 
student government entirely, the condition generally 
known·by the name apathy. 
Now is the time when students must impliment 
radical change to end the prolongation of this system. 
The legislature must be made healthy again; only then 
will Student Government respond to the popular will. 
One possible means to this end is the invest the 
legislature with broad new powers. One specific 
proposal might be to invest a proportionately 
representative legislature with the power to elect the 
Student Body President and his Vice-President. 
Though some will charge this undemocratic, far from 
being undemocratic, this system offers a future in 
which it would be virtually impossible for a candidate 
without the support of the majority to be elected 
SBP. Candidates for the legislature would of necessity 
reveal their choice for the presidency in their 
campaign. In turn, potential SBP candidates would 
probably tap those they considered their best 
representative in the hall, thus raising the quality of 
the legislative candidates. This system coincides 
perfectly with the concept of hall autonomy, of 
which we hear so much, for, in effect, the vote for 
SBP by halls. It would then convert student 
government into a type of strongly-bound 
confederation of at least semiautonomous halls. 
Furthermore, I would delegate to the individual halls 
the entire power of electing their alloted 
reporcsentatives, thus enabling the individual hall to 
send its president and/or vice-president to the 
assembly. if the hall felt this would be the most 
representative. 
Of course, this one provision alone does not create 
a radically strengthened legislature but rather a body of electors. It is provisions similar to the following which will ultimately complete the process. For instance, if the assembly is to be the source of power in student government, it must be the voice of the student body. As it stands the SBP is the voice of the student body, but no one man can represent student opinion on every occasion. This much has been proven more than once in the past. A responsible legislature can reflect student opinion much more effectively. 
Another important provision is that the assembly be directly represented in all university bodies which have student representation, including the SLC, Student Affairs Subcommittee of the Trustees. the University Forum, and any other such body which shall arise. This could enhance the power of the 
legislature  and  at  the  same  time  produce  a  more  
direct line of con tact to  the student.  
Another  area  which  needs  more  direct  student  

control is the Student Union. This body, which spends more than half of the students' money each year, is run entirely by appointed officials. In order to make the Union more responsive to the student will, we would first have the President and Vice-President of Student Union elected by the legislature, with lower-level appointments conferred by that body. Furthermore, the assembly should retain the final power of decision over the speaker schedule and the activities and concert schedules. This would go far to return the power to the people from the vast bureaucracy of student government. 
Such powers would allow the legislature to control Student Government. Furthermore, it would link the executive anu legislative branches inextricably together and force the executive to exhibit leadership in order to enact his policies. Finally, because of this consolidation of power, the assembly should gain the support of the students, thereby solving the three problems with which the Senate is now faced. 
No matter what the specific proposals are, it is this direction which is the only opportunity for radical change. The time for decision is now. For those who are in terested only in streamlining student gl vernment and yielding to the dominating impulse of centralization, the new constitution is a fine opportunity. But for those students who truly desire to reclaim their powers of self-government, the only viable alternative is to embark in this hold new direction. 
Night Editor: Jim Graif Layout Design: Jim Farrington Headlines: Dan Nye Layout: Joe Abell, Joe Anderson. Celeste Ponteri. Ingrid Bosc;.ung 



-~----~----­
------------------------~ 
THE QBS£RrJER.

Thursday, November 19, 1970 Page 5 
. . Lowenstein: diary of a loser 
Tlze following are excerpts from a diary that I kept of the Notre Dame effort to help Senior Class Fellow A liard 
K. Lowenstein retain his Congressional seat from Long Island. Much has been omitted for the sake of brevity. The chosen excerpts are meant to express the spirit of the campaign, rather than partray any of tlze individual efforts put forth. 
Friday, October 30 

It is raining, and we are driving to New York. We are driving to New York in the rain. The rain makes the roads as slick as some of the excuses that we used for the classes that we are cutting. 
We are driving to help a friend. 

There are 6 of us in the car. We are thrown together for a common cause. ra'he cause binds us together like nothing at Notre Dame could. We are spending our time for someone we believe in. 
The windshield is awash. Under other circumstances we might stop, and wait ll'ltil it stops. But we cannot stop. Our cause will not let us stop, it is too important. 
At le?st it is not snowing, like in South 
Bend. We have those little things to be 
thankful for. 

It is hard to write in the car. The road 
is btampy. Evcrytime we hii i:i b1.•mp, the 
C!!r jumps, and so docs the pencil. When it 
jumps it looses its place. And since it is 
dark, it can never find itself again. 

I cannot see what I am writing, I can 
only feel it. 

We are in Ohio. There are probably 
people here who could use our help, but 
we cannot stop for them. We have to go 
to New York. 

There are even some here that might 
like to help us, but we are not going to 
stop for them either. Our car is already 
tilled and we are going to New York. 
We are going to help AI Lowenstein. 
We have heard that he needs help. The 
polls show him 23,000 votes behind. He 
will lose his seat in the House, if he 
doesn't catch up those 23,000 votes. 
...There are 6 of us in the car -4 
Domer~ dnd 2 from SMC. None of us 
have eva met AI before, yet we all call 
him AI. We have seen him only once 
before. That was when he spoke at Notre 
Dame last year dunng the Strike, 
Cambodia and Kent State. We all believe 
in him, and we are all going to New York 
to help him. 

Each of us has our own personal 
reasons for going. But we all want to see 
AK L back in Congress. This single bond is 
pulling us closer and closer together. 
. . .It is difficult to sleep in the car, 
even when you are driving all night. So 
my mind is dredging up the past. 

I remember that it was 2 years ago that I first heard the name LOWENSTEIN. I first read about him in The Observer. Columnist Betty Doerr. better known in ~orne circles as Sweaty -Betty, published an-article about-going all the way to Long 1-;land to help a struggling young candidate. That candidate was Allard Lowenstein. 
Betty told us that he didn't have a 
chance. But when the ballots were tallied AI was VIctonous. He had won only by 
2000, but he had won where he didn't have a chance. Betty had witnessed a miracle. Betty and her friends had even helped make it come true. It is not often that mere mortals make miracles. 
But little did I think of Betty's article. It had cverythi11ll. a good article should have -clarity, continuity, etc. It even oozed emotion. But it didn't mean anything to me. It was all so far away. 
Far away until last spring, anyway. Al's appearance brought back each of Betty's painful words, and made them live right 
i~ _front of our eyes. f nday, Octoher 31 We are here in New York. It has taken 
us 16 hours and all mght but we are here. But, none of us call it New York, but we only refer to it by its nickname, The Big Apple. 
We worm _our way through its city streets,. stoppmg only for red lights. _We would hke to stop longer and see the city, but ~ong Island and the ca~paign is now w1thm our grasp, and we will let it allude us no longer. 
We are shuttled into the main Headquarters, called Freeport. It is merely the upstairs of a row of delapitated looking stores. But it is even more delapitated It is only an empty shell -a large garrett divided into many smaller rooms. 
nut these rooms have life. There are filled with busy people. We are escorted into a large ballroom by a friendly little moppett. 
She announces us as "the kids from 
Notre Dame." Terry, a long haired yet 
officious young man drops everything to 
greet us. 

There are others there too. But they 
are not so delighted to see us. They have 
come from other schools, not to meet us, 
but to canvass door-to-door. They are 
waiting to get their instructions and their 
literature. 

Terry, although only one of a thousand 
kids that came to help AK L, has a story 
much like everyone else there. But he 
does not tell us about himself, he makes 
sure that we are all right, and tells us how 
to get to the store front out of which we 
will work out of. 
The story that he doesn't tell, and 
which I only found out much later, was 
that he left the University of Southern 
Cal, the day of registration. He will not 
return again until after the Nov. 3 
elections. He will have trJ make up all the 
work he missed in less than half a 
semester. This is the dedication that is 
seen everywhere in the headquarters. 
Saturday, Sunday, Monday, The Eve of 
the Election 
It has now gotten impossible to keep 
my diary up to date. We have worked ';o 
hard that ::!l we have time to. do when we 
are off is sleep. Some don't even take 
time out for that. 
The last three days have all blurred 
together. We have-spent them canvassmg 
from door-to-door. I have wrung more 
door bells, and knocked 011 more doors 
than a Fuller Brush salesman. My feet are 
sore and my arches ache, but the pain is sweetened by the thought of victory that But It ts not the sudden shift to put AI will surely come. over the top. It is not the miracle that 

The people in the houses love me, or Sweaty Betty wrote about. hate me. or worst of all they won't When the crowd's spirit is crumbling to answer their door. its lowest ebb, the loser arrives. 
There are times that I wisll 1 were back The band ironically strikes up the at school. Even Notre Dame is better than Notre Dame Victory March as he having doors slammed in your face. -approaches the auditorium stage. He is 
I never want to hear the name of smiling into the face of defeat. That Norman Lent again. He is Lowenstein's defeat grips his whole body, and tears at opponent. It is screamed at me from his mind. That defeat is tearing at his very passing cars, yelled at me from posters on soul. But there is an air about him that people's lawns, and jeered at me by tells the thousands there that he has not children. I just hope and pray that the really lost, his opponent simply has more voters don't give up Lowenstein for Lent. v?tes. 
But there are good moments that make hom the stage he surveys the youthful it all worthwhile. People talk to me, they ~row?. His first words are, "If everyone invite me in for coffee, and they too m th1s room could have voted, we would begin to realize that Lowenstein is the have won! answer to their political questions. J:fis most ardent supporters, the 
There are even little children. They are children, are all there. Fe_w adul~s are _seen playing war out on their fiont lawn. anywhere. He t~lls us t~ JUst wait ~ntJI we There are 5 of them, 3 boys and 2 girls. can all vote. fhat will be a different ('vJar evidently affects everyone.) They all story· 
have rifle fashioned out of dead old tree There is no bitterness in his voice. His 
limbs. They see me approach their house, tired voice is strained, but he is as 
and decide to attack me. Without much light-hearted as ever. 
trouble I let them capture me. Everyone there realizes that the 
They threaten me with torture if I C h i I d r en's -Crusade is I o st. 
don't tell them what want at their Dissappointment is etched on every face.
1 

house. I explain that I am working for a It is apparent everywhere. There is much 
candidate named Lowenstein. I get down weeping, and hatred of the establishment. 
on my knees and show them pictures of Hatred burns in the eyes beneath the 
him. I promise to give them buttons, if tears. We have worked in the system and 
they will promise to wear them. They say see w here it has gotten us. 
they will, and they all put them on their Disappointment and defiance make 
collars. The little Ellen tells me she is comfortable bedfellows. 
flunking kindergarten because she cannot But AI changes all that. Just as he set 
tie her shoes. 1 tie them for her and we the mood and direction of the Strike last 
become friends. year, he again transforms the enraged, 
Tonight we lost. r say lost. because it dejected mass. was no Allard Lowenstein who lost, it He tells us that his loss is only a was us. warning. A warning that we will have to 
w~ ar<> thPlo~~rs. work harder in the future. 
The "Victory Party" is held at a Where there is agony, he sows hope. restaurant called Carl Hopple's. When we Hope that we can win in the future. They arrive, things are looking great. Our are not just words. The message of hope district w:--~ 3 to 1 for AKL. peals from every movement. 
Then the results begin to trickle in A voice rings out from the crowd. from other districts. They look good "You'll he back, and we'll be with you." AKL is leading by 2,000 with 70,000 We know that he will be back, but more votes in. important that we will be back. 
Then the tide starts to turn. Slowly, at The phoenix is rising out of its own 
first, then building with every reporting ashes. There is disappointment, but more 
district. We are down by 3,000. People importantly there is hope. 
are standing there awed. Some are Losing a children's crusade can be 
swearing. Most are starting to cry. awful, but AI has changed the mood from 
When things look the blackest, when "we will not crusade again" to "we will 
AI is slumping to 7,000 behind, not lose again." 
something happens. Next time we will work harder. Next 
time we will even vote. 




Earth Lite a smash 
On monday afternoon I saw a big green put the world in a refreshingly absurd schoolbus with a hand painted sign on it context. In so few words and actions they reading "Earth Lite." As it stopped next said so much. While their performance to Washington Hall, some happy-looking was simple, their meaning was poignant. I people got out and started peering about, saw _a little .of myself in what the)L were apparently in search of directions. As a doing and it had a real impact upon me. typical hurried student much too rushed Le~i'ving Stepan Center I was literally to stop and offer any necessary dazed by the experience Earth Lite and assistance, I walked on by and forgot all those people afforded me. Trying to about "Earth Lite." Later that night in explain it later I just found my mouth the hall, I saw a poster announcing a wide open with nothing coming out. performance by a group of the name Writing about it is difficult, but I can say printed on the top of the old bus I'd seen. that I'll remember the old green They had appeared to be nice people, and schoolbus for a long time. I'll also si nee I hadn't helped them that remember those eight happy people and afternoon, I decided to make up for it by the nice thing they did to me on a bland attending the 'performance. Besides, I tuesday night in November. thought that two hours off from my 
Their approach was creatively intriguing, already far behind studies wouldn't make capturing the entire audience. As theall that much difference. 
performance flowed along, it pulled theAs I arrived at Stepan Center on spectators and finally culminated in'tuesday; I was in a bland sort of mood, about two hundred people huddled on not giving much of a damn about. 
stage, swaying, chanting and clapping in aanything. r hoped for the best, cynically unified tribute to the abilities of the eightbelieved that those nice people would do happy people. However, it wasn't solittle for my emotionless state. I now am much a tribute to them as it was a sure that they must have read my mind realization of the message they carried.
and set out to change it. They really did The crowd was happy and togetlter, I wasit to me. As those eight happy people happy and together with them. In a realwandered through the twenty-five or so sense, we had all reached out to oneskits which comprized the performance I another in hope of sharing the beauty ofbecame totally engrossed. Engrossed not the moment. I'm not too sure if there wasonly in each small portion of the show, any one thing that did it, but Earth Litebut in the attitude that prevailed created something that drew everyonethroughout. In their simple actions I closer and in a very honest andcould see the sore spots of my existence spontaneous sense. 
in a whole new perspective. Earth Lite 
I 

I 
__j ~ 

Thursday, November 19, 1970
Page 6 THB O.&rEIW£Il. 


'' .

Keenan must w1n one for the Ginner" 
by J.W. Findling the best in interhall history. Shellenbarger has done a tremen­,Jete without mentioning senior his buddies. Stanford beatObserver Sportswriter Quarterback Bob Mysliwiec led dous job of stopping opponents' middle linebacker Tim McGinn. Keenan last year 7-6 to keeplnterhall football at Notre the potent offense. After three running attacks. If Dillon is to McGinn is the George Blanda of them out of the championship.
Dame must have emerged out of years at the helm of every score on Sunday (something 
interhall; he has led the Keenan On Sunday Tim McGinn willnecessity. You have all these Keenan football game, Bob has which no other team on campt'~ 
defense for four years, and in play the game he loves for the high school football players who retired this year to an off-cam­has done against Keenan this that time he has missed only one last time, and he will play it il•hnd full rides to places like pus apartment. Rumors have it year), then the South Quad game. (He had a medical school the ND Stadium. All you senior.=
Comell or Ball State, and you've champions may have to com­
that if he would have played this interview this year.) He is the who can remember when got to give them something to year, he may have been drafted-­plete a few passes. Dillon has a only member of this year's team 
Keenan Hall was a prison fordo after 3:30 pm. So you dig up vicious running game and the
-probably by the Bears. And, of that was around for that game freshman should be there and some old pads with "EDD¥; course, how could anyone forget match-up should he interestin~;. with Sorin in 1967. Since that 
watch the end of an era. Keenan ~; GLADIEUX" scribbled the dedicated Charley Blum. Bill Any article about Keenan in­game only one touchdown has will try to win one for the on the side and some Red 
Berry, John Dostal, and he terhall football would he incom-been scored against McGinn and Ginner.
Grange vintage helmets. None of hitch-hiked once all the waythe stuff fits--tackles wear jer­from Iowa City after a rugby seys with No. 15 and halfbacks 

game on a cold, stormy Saturday are adorned with No. 75. You 

Zahmbies win big one
night in order to play for 
grab a couple of high school Keenan on Sunday. The back­· referees from town and Rich 
field was led by the dynamite by Mike Pavlin Terry O'Neil. was more or less illuminated andHunter just to make it inter­running of Joe "Bullet" Simpson Keenan and Lyons received each captain was actually able to
esting. Throw it all together and (Editor's nute--While must
and the defense, led in the first round byes and the former scrape up a full contingent of 
you have a dangerous situation. Interhall action takes place on
secondary by Mike Doyle, were advanced to the third round by masochists. Someone had re­Dangerous or not, it is a good unscored upon the entire season. the football field in the fall, besting St. Joe's. Lyons, how­
moved the nets on the goalpost·bet at this time of year, as the 
The championship game against several halls have been battling it ever, forfeited to Zahm, setting 
but this mattered little since nuSuper Bowl of interhall football Off-Campus won an
was on out in Soccer. The following is a up a battle of the unbeatens. one could see them anyway. Thtapproaches, that Keenan Hal~ unbelievable last second TD r•.1n report on Zahm then knocked off Keenan
the season and cham­incongruity of it all promptedfaces Dillon for the interhall by 'tar! Rak in the overtime pionship game. If it sounds a 2-1 on Sunday, November 7. Don Kennedy, Scholastic Sports;::hampionship. It is Keenan's period. 
little biased--well, it is. The Playing after a two-week lay­Editor and Zahm Outside Left,third visit to the finals in the last 
Although this year's Keenan author is the Zahm Soccer cap­off, Zahm was sluggish on to observe a Ia Howard Cosell:four years. team has many new faces, they offense but scored twice on pen­"This game has been f>old O'.lt
tain.)

The evolution of interhali have been just as effective com­alty kicks by JT Lyons. One was since October."
Interhall football may be dead
football in Keenan is wrapped 

piling a 4-0-2 record. Head awarded for a "hand-touching"
in Zahm Hall but Soccer is alive The contest started and fin·
with tradition and pride. In coach, Joe Haag, who is a former violation by Keenan and the 196 7 Keenan was entirely fresh­member of the Fighting Irish, is and --ah --kicking. The other for "roughing", both with­ished as a truly physical battk man; those were the days of Fr. Zahm bies defeated Alumni 1-0 and the referees wisely decided
pleased with the improvement of in the penalty area. Zahm 's de­:\1cGrath, sign-ins, bed-checks, the squad's offensive game. last Wednesday morning to cap­rense, headed by Goalie Jim to stay out of the action. Only ture the Interhall Soccer
no booze, and no parietals. Leading the attack this season lendryk and Fullbacks Mark one whistle was blown for 
Championship. roughing (on Kennedy), t)wugh'>levertheless, the young Keen:m 
has been little Tom Ewing. His ~urtzman and Mike Williams, 
team put together an impressive The double-elimination tour­at one point play contir,ued wiLt
name doesn't rhyme with Heis­vas outstanding in the second 
4-0-1 record and advanced to the ney got under way with teams two bodies stretched out on the 
man, but his poise and leader­!alf.
from six halls participating turf.
finals to play the "prestigious" 

ship remind you of someone's Zahm faced a classy Alumni Sorin. In those days Sroin had (though players were not re­Perhaps stund by the cold o:·
that does. His 35-yard, 4th down team for the title, needing one
stricted to any particular hall). perhaps because they wished toand rules that
no freshman no touchdown pass to tight end victory in two games to win it 
anyone could detect-that's why St. Joe's dumped Alumni 2-0 get quickly back to bed, the
Ray "Jersey" Donovan sent the :Ill. The 1\:~in Quad hooters h;:d
they called it "prestigious". Ob­and Zahm edged Grace l-0 in Zahmbies dominated first half
Keenan team into the champion­rebounded after their opening
viously times have changed. To the first round. offensive action. They were
ship game. Ewing's passing has loss to take the Loser' Bracket 
say that Sorin is now more Zahm's win was keyed by thwarted, however, until JT
been supplemented by the with a 1-0 win over Keenan. 
"prestigious" than Keenan is like John "JT" Lyons, ace fencer Lyons got a chance to make
hard-nosed running of sopho­On Monday, November 16,
saying that the Polo Grounds and co-holder of the North another corner kick. Undoubted­
more John Grieving. Keenan also Alumni beat the Zahmhies 1-0 was a better ball park than Shea has the luxury of a specialist. American record for continuous ly Zahm 's M VP, Lyons gauged
on an early first half goal. Play­
kissing at year's the wind
Stadium. All those Keenan frosh (set last An brisk perfectly. He
Joe "Bench-me-or-trade-me" ing without JT Lyons for most 
·tost to the YIP's from Sorin, but Tostal celebration). Lyons dom­lifted a perfect kick from the
Garagiola does a fine job of of the first half, Zahm never 
they didn't forget. inated the game from his Center goalie's right corner and spun it
punting and kicking PATs. could get untracked on offense,
Keenan moved to stay-hall Half position and set up the out where the winu could get at
The defense is led by line­and only Excellent defensive 
status in 1968. Many of the boys backers Tom Schultz and Paul winning goal with a perfect cor­it. The hall swung lazily up to
work prevented a rout. 

stayed to get another crack at ner kick which was neatly the goal-mouth, then dove into
Collins. The Keenan front five of The next problem was the
headed in by former Observer the right side of the net, leaving
the championship. It was an Greg Vichick, Dan Roche, Bill date for the championship game.
incredible team--certainly one of Nowak, Bob Polomski, and Mark and Scholastic Sprots Editor The Zahm hies, mostly upper­the Alumni goalie shaking his head in amazement.
classmen, were ready to cut 
In the second half, AlumnicIa sses on any given day. 
got the wind advantage and con­Alumni, however, had many
Voices from the crowd 
stantly pressured goalie Jendryk.
freshmen on the roster who were Kurtzman and reserve Full hac .. 
Championship between Morris­which was also scoreless, Dillon saddled with tests and who fur­
Sports Editor: Tom Savin were equal to the
sey and Dillon. I was amazed Hall was awarded the vicory on ther planned to blow out of here I was a spectator at Sunday's when, after a scoreless four quar­the basis of more first downs. A come Saturday. Someone sug­task and Alumni unable tti
was Interhall Football South Quad ters and one overtime period rule such as this is something gested Wednesday morning at score. Things got very rough in the closing minutes, especially
one might expect from the 7:00AM. 
when Jcndryk was kneed illegal­NCAA, some state high school For some reason, probably ly and rather unpleasan tty whileathletic association, or another because it was cold and everyone trying to "dribble" the hall togoverning body equally back­wanted a hot shower, the time get away from a clearing kick. 
ward, but not from the lnterhall and date were OK 'ed by the According to the refs. thereOffice. Why was there not sim­respective captains. Speaking are no patches or awards forth­ply a continuous sudden death about rising at 7:00 and doing it coming for the champs. But luntil one team scored? The game are two different things. Most guess anyone who plays soccer as played only took 55 minutes importantly, everyone assumed at 7:00 AM ought to be lockedto finish the first four quarters,. the sun would he up. It wasn't. 
up anyway.

and the 12-minute extra quarter By 7: IS Stepan Center t'idd took exactly that long since there was no stopping of the clock, even for measurements. 
OSU, ND favored 
As a result of this rule, Morrissey Sixth ranked Arkansas is a 14 Hall was deprived of a chance to NEW YORK (LIP!) -Ohio point pick over Texas Tech and win the lnterhall Championship, State was listed Tuesday as a five eighth ranked Air Force is rated which is rather ridiculous since point favorite over Michigan for four points over Colorado. Morrissey scored 60 points in 5 Saturday's crucial Big Ten game Stanford, the No. II team, is a 9 
games and was not scored upon at Columbus. 1/2 point favorite over in any of them, including this The Buckeyes, ranked fourth California and Southern championship. This is not to say in the nation, can secure a Rose California, tied for 16th, is <' Dillon might not have won, hut Bowl bid with a victory over seven point choice over UCLA any team that i~ u11scored upon Michigan, the nation's No. S Saturday night. should not have to go home team. Michigan, which played in 1n other ~ames odds listed are defeated. I can't see any rea.;on the Rose Bowl last season is Columbia 12 over Brown, South for the rule as presently stated, ineligible for a return trip. Carolina 12 over Clemson, 
except for the fact that the Texas, nation's 6 over Cor!lell,
the No. Princeton I/2 lnterhall Office might want to team, is idle this wc::i. l)reparing North Carolina 4 over Dake, shorten game lengths. It's too for its Thanksgiving Day game Yale 6 over Harvard, Purdue 16 late to aid Morrissey's cause t!ds against Texas A&M. hut Notre over Indiana. 
year, hut I would hope thi~ rule Dame, ranked second, is a 14 Virginia 7 1/2 over Maryland, 



• 
will be changed in the futur,,. point favorite over seventh Syracuse 16 1/2 over Miami Fla., Si nct,rely, ranked Louisiana State. Northwestern 4 over Michigan
Dfl'.IIJNTOWN rm•Jru & courn-Rv 
Vince Meconi Nebraska, the No. 3 team, is State, Penn State 17 over
!)QUTH BEND SHOPPir~G CErHER 
249 Morrissey rated II I /2 over Oklahoma. Pittsburgh, Iowa 9 over Illinois. 
-----~----------~----------------------·----~ 
Th1.1rsday, November 19, 1970 THE OBSERIJER. Page 7 
"The worst thing" stops DiNardo 
by Terry Shields Observer Sports Editor 
Editor's Note: This interview with J.arry DiNardo took place lasi week, before he reinjured lzis knee. Tlze comments of the Irish co-captain still seem timely, however, a11d as a tribute to this great All-American the article "\Vill nm as originally printed. 
Also, at a later date an inter­view will be set up with IJiNardo tu discuss in depth his trip to Southeast Asia and his views on ti:e Viefllam war. 
-·~: 

of human hcing. On the football field he plays his position of offensive left guard better than any othn player in college fool­hall. Uff the field he is an hono.· student and a man who geh involved with people and was just recently awarded a post-graduate scholarship from the National F.)Qthall Founda­tion and Hall of Fame. Larry DiNardo is almost too good to be true. 
Most people have heard of the 6'1", 235 pound guard as the captain of the 1970 Fighting Irish offense. When his team­mates selected him last spring for this position they couldn't have made a better choice. Larry 
~,l" ' 
¥ 

Larry DiNardo will not be psyching the opposition any more this sea­son, he was operated on on Wednesday. 
realizes the tremendous burden that being a captain places on a player. He explains, "I definitely feel the added pressure of being a captain. However, I feel that the worst thing that can happen is not being out on the field with t'1e team. When I missed those two games with the knee injury I felt really bad, like I wasn't part of the team. Just being a senior and knowing that this is the last time around makes you dr­pressed when you miss a game, but if you're supposed to be out tnerc: kadi tg, you feel twice a .• had." 
Larry DiNardo is a name that has appeared on many All-American lists smce his first year as a starter when he was a sophomore. The burly guard takes a sensible look at the All-America phenomenon. "There are probably five to ten guys at each position who could be picked for the squad. A lot depends on the team's record and things of that nature. There are a lot more 'true All-Ameri­cans' than really get picked. There are men just as good as those who get picked for the team but they just don't get the publicity." 
Notre Dame is still undefeated and the Irish appear to have one of the best teams in their long and glorious history. DiNardo says, "This is basically the same team we had last year, but with a year's experience. Possibly the fact that we have never gone all the way since coming here has made the team a little more eager to play. We're an extreme­
ly dose group. There is a good mixture of seniors, juniors, and 
sophomores. I wouldn't want to compare this team with any other Notre Dame team because the season isn't over yet. If we would go through undefeated then I might compare us to say, the I 966 squad. Even so, we've accomplished a lot." 
Larry's impressive credentials go far past the football field. He is today the sum-total of a col­lege experience that is available to a great many young people. He is an honor student in a rather difficult major (political science) and he definitely will not end his education after earning a bachelor's degree. De­pendingonhisstatusinprofes­sional football, Larry plans to either enter law school or go for an MBA. He explains, "If I get cut by a team then I'II just go on to law school but if I make it 111en I'll take graduate-school ..:reclits on a part-time ba~is. Where I go depends on the team l play for. I don't have a particu­:ar preference where I play but if possible I would like to stay away from New York. Not be­cause I don't like the city, but I simply want a change. You know, meet new people, see new places. I think that's good for a person." 
When Larry isn't opening holes for the Irish backs or studying to keep his average up he gets involved in community :tctivities.He isa memberofthe Blue Circle Honor Sociill:y and he has performed a few services for people in South Bend. "It's really not that hig a deal. A few of us guys would just like to help the community, like when we painted the school down-

They say Casanova con 
town for Sister Marita. One thing that I really like to do is go to the Logan Center and visit with the retarded children. There's nothing like seeing the expression on those faces when you cheer them up a little.'' 
If all this isn't enough to keep' one person busy, Larry still finds time to do things in the summer, like touring Vietnam. "I went on the tour for an educational ex­perience and what I learned was truly worth the few weeks of summer work I missed. My poli­tical views changed entirely after 
that trip. You have to 'be there and see the look on those sol­diers' faces to know the whole story. The war appears to be a futile effort to me. I felt that if we put a smile on one guy's face then the whole trip was worth­while." 
The Irish co-captain is also interested in the efforts of some of his teammates this season, Joe Theismann in particular. "The Heisman Trophy is supposed to symbolize the outstanding per­former in collegiate football. Now I know that (Archie) Man­ning and (Jim) Plunkett are great quarterbacks and they have that good size for professional foot­ball. However, if they are basing the award solely on a collegiate performam:e, then I see no rea­son why Joe shouldn't be right in there. If he won this award it would not only be good for him but for the entire 1970 Notre Dame team. I'd just be tickled to death if he won it." 
Larry DiNardo, if ever there were ever a person worthy of the privilege to be a Notre Dame captain it is certainly he. 
do it all 
BATON ROUGE, LA., --Ver­mittee on Spirit Revival will satility is not related to modern sponsor a "Death March" b day footbalL As has been stated ginning at 3:00 o'clock many times it is now the age of 
Friday afternoon at the SiJecialization_ by Tavern. After much liba­But LSU's Tommy Cassanova tion seniors will mar.::h from refutes that theory with his Corby's to their last pep rally. knack of being able to play 
Be there seniors! After the either offense, defense or return rally continue the merry­
kicks. 
making at the senior bar. The 6-2, I 90-pound junior who was named to All-South­eastern conference cornerback as 

Voices from the crowd 
The following is part of a story which appeared in tlze Baton Rouge, /,a. MORNING ADVOCATE on Tuesday morn­ing, November 18, !961J. It was sent to us by Mr. Henry J. l.edoux of Baton Rouge. In his letter of comment, Mr. Ledoux said, "Actually this statement is inexcusable. and is actually a result of a case of "sour apples" Oil U)U:~ part (the student editor) part -But does not reflect the general attitllde. 
I.SU students don't know 
where the missing elevator went, 
bnt they certainly know where 
the shaft went. 
So arc the sentim~nts of Mary Howell, a junior at the univer­sity, who felt L.SlJ was shafted. "We should have been asked over Ole Miss," she said. 
Disappointment artd unbelief 'flooded the LSU campus Mon­day, as students learned the Fighting Tigers were out of the bowl picture. The high level of spirit reached at the Mississippi State slaughter was suddenly dampened by this news. Shouts of victory turned to stares of silence, and the entire campus seemed dumbfounded. 

Sees Irish Licking 
Joey Morgan, sports editor of the Reveille, had this to say: "The Cotton Howl made a grav·· error in selecting Notre Dam, 
LS U _ Notre Dame has only played two teams with winning seasons, Purdue and Southern California. They lost to Purdue and tied Southern Cal. Notre Dame has more of a name than a game. It is going to he the bigges1 humiliation in Notre Dame history when they play Texas in the howl game. Coach Parseghian of Notre Dame plays a bloodthirsty game up until the last second, even when he's 40 points ahead. Their line is fat and sloppy. The good Catholic brothers of Notre Dame are going to the bowl fur the $300,000 they will receive, but the beating they'll get will not equate the humiliation they will fac~ at the hands of Texas.'' 
"One guy does not make a team," said Joan Bartus. "I think LSU has been done a dirty turn. With a team like LSU that ltas the best records in so many areas, you don't overlook it for a one-man show Archie Man­'ling 
a sophomore, was pegged for tailback this season by Coach Charles McClendon. However, a combination of circumstances dictated otherwise by mid-sea­s.on. Cass suffered a sprained shoulder in the season opener against the Texas Aggies and was hampered until the fifth game of the campaign. 
Meanwhile, various and sun­dry injuries on defenst> forced Cholly Mac to alter his plans and resort to his policy of 1969 when Tommy was used on de­fense almost exclusively, being spotted in certain situations on offense. 
However, his contributions to LSU's season, thus far, are im­pressive. He has carried the ball 4 7 times for 198 yards; caught three passes for 23 yards; scored 
three touchdowns; had two in­
terceptions; returned I 0 punts 
for 79 yards; and brot:ght back 
six kickoffs for 90 yards. 
These are just figures which hardly describe the other things this brilliant athlete has done. His exceptional speed (:09.7) and sharp reactions enable him to cover outstanding receivers like Auburn's Terry Beasley, Alabama's David Bailey and Mis­SISSippi State's David Smith, man-to-man. He is such a threat as a return man that in Saturday night's State victory, it was his handoff to Craig Burns on a, punt that enabled Burns to travel 90 yards for a touchdown. The Maroon coverage followed Casanova and allowed Burns to streak down the east sidelines for the longest punt return by a Tiger since Billy Cannon's fa­mous 89 -yard runback against Ole Miss I959. "We are con­
stantly amazed at the ease with which Tommy plays football," 


Coach Mac said. 
Tommy has one other quality which might be called a throw­hack to an earlier era in football. When he is carrying the ball his amazing balance allows him to utilize the old-fashioned "stiff arm" to ward off would-be tack­lers. And his faculty of shiftiness 
propels him through space in unbelievable fashion. Because of his mid-season. shift from offense to defense it 
will he rather difficult for Casa-• nova, even with all the plaudits which have come his way, to be named to an All-American. but it's not impossible. He's a cinch. to be high on the check list. 
This weekend Tommy will be involved in an ironic situation. He attended Notre Dame high school in his home town of Crowley, La. Saturday afternoon he'll be at Notre Dame again, but this time as an opponent, facing the nation's number one football team. You can figure well that Tommy Casanova will be giving a good account of himself as the Fighting Tigers have their first meeting in his­tory with the Fighting Irish. 

_P_a~~~8------------------------------------------------------~~~==~~~()~ Thursday, November 19, 1970 



Mountaineers scale El Capitan 
YOSEMITE NATIONAL PARK, Calif. ( UPI) -In an epic for the annals of mountaineering Warren harding and Dean Cald­well the stubborn climbers who wouldn't be rescued conquered the 3,000 foot southeast face of El Capitan yesterday. 
Harding 46, and Cal well 27, stepped up on the sloping dome of the huge stone monolith at the summit of the vertical "Wall of the Early Morning light" EI Capitan's last major unclimbed route at 10:14 a.m. 
St. Mary's Soph Class sponsors Party -Stan­ford Keenan Sasement. Friday, Nov. 20 -9-1 am ­
HAS BEEN CANCELLED 
Latest in 

Grimy, bearded and hungry the climhers were met by a cheering crowd of fellow moun­taineers, newsmen and onlookers who had hiked up on trails from the back of the monolith to be in on the finish of the 30 day ascent. 
Harding, a West Sacramento Calif. surveyor and the first man to climb El Capitan in 19SR, and Caldwell, a Milwaukie Ore. pho­tographer, endured more than 20 days of dangling from the vertical stone wall and day after day of soaking rainstorms which at on~ point prompted the National Park Service to try to "rescue" them. But Harding last week angrily refused the rescue. When told "they're going to 
Bells, Body-shirts, un-suits, vests Posters & Things 

ON THE MALL 
TOWN & COUNTIW SHOPPING CENTRE (Mishawaka) 



Hans Haus 
2803 So. Michigan St. Phone 291·5522 German Food 
Our Specialty 

Crated with Old World Atmos­
phere. Speclalizin& in Genn~~n 
and American foods . 
Sou~h Bend's Fmest 
10:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m. Banquet Rooms Closed Sundays and. Holidays The Alpine & Bavarian Rooms 
rescue you" he shouted back: "Like hell they arc." 
The Wall of the Early Morning Light so called because it re­ceives the first sunlight of the day was the last of the uncon­quered potential routes up the face of El Capitan. 
Harding and Caldwell set out Oct. 19 expecting to complete the dimh in IS days. They took along 20 days supply of food. 
But successive rainstorms buffeted the iJeak and the climbers reported Nov. I I they were tired, wet and nearly out of food. 
Park rangers decided to rescue them. A crew of 17 moun­taineering experts and nearly a ton of equipment was assembled and flown to the top by helicop­ter. 
On 11riday as the rescue party 
Halls to be loclred 
ters, from December 21 toDuring vacation periods in January 16. Since all outsiderecent years, the University doors will have to be locked, noresidence halls have experienced one will be permitted to resideserious incidents of theft and in the residence halls during this
vandalism. In an effort to reduce the danger this year and 
period without th.e special, expli­strengthen the security of the 
cit approval of the Dean of residence halls and the individual 
Students. Such approval must be rooms, all undergraduate halls 
requested of the Dean of Stu­will be closed between semes­
dents before December I I. 

Kellers talks on YAF 

by Tom Bornholdt 

Rev. Edward Keller, C.S.C., Professor Emeritus, gave a brief talk on the beginnings and growth of the Young Americans for Freedom at a meeting of the Notre Dame chapter of that organization. Also, during the meeting, the YAF organized its drive for donations to be sent to a Vietnam hospital in the form of kool-aid, candy and other presents. 
Fr. Keller emphasized the diversity whkl1 is prevalent in 









BUDWEISER. 
presents 
JOHN WAYNE 
Plus an outstanding cast of stars in ... 
"SWING OUT SWEET LAND" 
Duke does his first TV special for the King of Beers .... and that is special! 
Sunday, Nov. 29 8:30-10 P.M. EST 


NBC-TV 
(Check for local time and station) 
the YAF. He contrasted it to the John Birch Society, which he felt tries to shove viewpoints down it~ members' throats. He cited the varied responses of the nation's many chapters as an example of each chapter esta­blishing "its own path." 
Keller tersely ran through the history of anti-Communism and conservatism, starting with the changes in national policy during the Truman administration, up to the conference at Sharon, Conn. which started the YAF. Keller cited Bill Buckley and his Natinal Review for making the YAF a widespread national organization, and the Goldwater campaign for uniting it behind a common· cause. 
While Keller noted many dif­ferences among conservatives in rei i gi on, an ct the conflict between libertarian and tradi­tionalist elements of conserva­tism, he considered the common element to "that all emphasized individual moral responsibility. 
The YAF hospital drive will collect donations at the dining halls during supper tonight and Friday. The supplies purchased hy the money will be sent to a hospital in Phu Bai. This will be the second collection that the Y AF is holding for this cause. The last time the YAF only set up tables in the North Dining Hall due to a error, and collected $100. 
was assembling its equipment 
Harding looked up from his 
perch on the rock I.000 feet 
below and shouted: 
"Who is that on top and what 
do they want?" 
"Warren, they're going to res­
cue you," a clim her shouted 
hack down. 
"Like hell they are!" Harding 
yelled back. 
Rationing their remaining food Harding and Caldwell pressed on, making rapid prog­ress under clearing sunny skies until they overcame the last ma­jor obstacle -a huge overhang about 400 feet below the sum­mit of the face -Monday. 
They camped only 250 feet bc•low l he top of the cliff Tues­day night and carefully negoti­ated the last stretch yesterday morning. 
Onlookers who included Har­ding's elderly mother peered at the climbers through binoculars from the floor of the Yosemite valley cheered as first one man then the other pulled himself up over the summit of the vertical granite face and stepped on rei~ atively level footing for the first time in more than 20 days. 
Two climbers who had descended from the top of the dome to the lip of the precipice were there to greet them. 
From there it wa.:> an easy climb up the sloping dome but the climbers taking no chances remained roped together and negotiated it slowly. 

ACC report 
by Kathy Kersten 

Sister Jeanne Finske report­ed on the recent activities of the Academic Standards Committee at the November 16th meeting of the Academic Affairs Council. According to Carol Henninger, Academic Commissioner, Sister Jeanne discussed revision of the Madeleva Honors Program and the new SMC pass/fail system. The possibility of independent study during the January interim was mentioned, and Sister Jeanne agreed to encourage dis­cussion on this point at Thurs­day's meeting of department chairmen. A change in the policy of charging $55 fee for credit hours over eighteen was also recommended. 
Dr. William Hickey of th~' biology department asked the Council about the structure of next year's calendar. He stat~d that under the present plan aca­





