1. 

VOL. tV No. 129 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint!\--,-.,-ta_r._v-:-'s-C=-o-:-:ll,....eg-e-;C-;-,o-m._m_u_n-:it~y----------T=ri:jHiiuii;Ri<:s:n.ioAY, MAY 14, 1970
sltllc academic council 
ok's grade amnesty 
The Academic Affairs Council bcrs of our community. equivalent to the pass/fail sys­of Saint Mary's College met Because we value the educa­tem.) Tuesday evening, May 12, to act tional nature of the events of the II. Letter grades may be given on a student proposal concer­past week we have accepted in only when the faculty member ning academic freedom. The spirit and in principle the stu­determines that course require­
student resolution had stated dent resolution submitted to us; ments have been fulfilled. that faculty members, in consul­because we wish to insure equity tation with individual students for all students, we have amen­The Academic Affairs Council wishing to discontinue a course, ded the student resolution and is one of the Councils and is have the option of permitting declare the folowing policy to be charged with assisting the Presi­such a student to discontinue n effect through the spring dent in determining academic and furthermore, that several semester of 1969-1970: I. In policy. Membership on the 
procedural options concerning all courses, both required and Council includes the President, academic grade be made avail­elective, faculty members, in Senior Vice President, Academic able. consultation with those indivi­Dean, four faculty members and 
The Academic Affairs Coun­dual students wtshing to discon­two students Communiversity continued yesterday with a panel discussion on cil, responding to the resolution tinue the course, have the option "What I Think of the War." We think H stinks. issued the following statement: of allocating the following 
The Academic Affairs Council grades: 
Kelso states society's ills 
of Saint Mary's College recog­W -Withdrew with )Jermission nizes that our nation is presently and passing. facing a time of moral crisis. The 
traceable to bad economy
deep felt concern and commit­WF -Withdrew failing. 
by Mike Chapin also misleading, Kelso said.
ment of our community in "I know of no bomh that can
I -Incomplete having until Economic expert, Lewis Kelso While ther are only four million 

response to this crisis has been October I, 1970, to complete stop an idea", he said. 
said yesterday that students employed, there arc 20 million
most apparent these last few Kelso's solution is as follows.
the course requirements instead were " spectacularon a wild worthless jobs. Kelso said the Workers would buy stock indays, and we applaud the unity of the usual three weeks after good chase" in trying to solve sayings like "technology creates
of action that this has brought the close of the semester. their corporations on credit 
the problems of society by jobs" and "we live in an affluent
to our campus. from the banks. They would pay
S/U · Satisfactory for course ending the Indo-China War. He society" are just false.

We hold that our first respon­in off this loan in six or seven years
which a student maintains an said that poverty, crime, "When 95% of American

sibility is to maintain a position with the earnings of their stocks .
A, B, or C average and Unsatisfa­
alienation and war arc effects of 

of institutional neutrality in ctory for those in which the families live hand to mouth, They would have to put up little 
a bad, outdated economy. when we have poverty riots,
order to assure the right of average is D or below, excluding or no money and their wages
Kelso spoke in the Library 

local state debts and the would not be affected. Theseacademic freedom for all mem-major courses. (This grade is 
Auditorium to • a standing 

economy is rising Yz% per year, stocks would be available
room-only crowd on his unique, 

we are not living in an affluent whenever the corp,orations
"two-factor economics". 

society."
Student leaders discuss .
wanted to expand.
"These efforts to eliminate 
The government tries to If the corporations would
the wars, the hunger, the wants, 

bolster the economy by then give the full 20% of their
the perversion of all liberal arts

panty raid prevention 
channelling money into earnings back to the
education into servile education, 

non-consumer goods and service§
by Shawn Hill Discussion centered around shareholders, $20,000 worth of
urban slums and crowding, rising

A group of Notre Dame and possible methods of preventing like the Viet Nam War. Kelso stock that the worker put up no
civil rights strife and alienation, 

said the excuse the government
SMC students leaders met with future panty raids, especially money for, would give him an
rising crime rates, pollution, 

gives for the war is to stop
SM(' President Father John when they involve theft and annual income of $4,000
racism and inflation... the waste 

Communism.
McGrath yesterday to discuss vandalism. Sr. Immaculata beyond his wages. 
of our technology in space, the 

plans to prevent future panty mentioned that this was the first 
failure to develop necessary mass 

raids. The meeting was called in . year that the raids have escalated 
SMC holds .elections 
transit, all these arc effects 

response to April's raid which into invasions of the halls by primarily of the single basic bv Jeanne Sweeney and Mary Kay Davyresulted in losses of several male students. 
cause that I have identified." 
SMC held elections yesterday Sandy Umhoffer who wasthousands dollars due to theft Notre Dame representatives Kelso contended that our for four Mans, unavailable for

the halls, Le comment. Jackyand damage. contended that the raids 

generation was "the first 

McCandless, Cross, Robin Olson,
Attending the meeting for probably were a product of the Holy and Slone, Amy 
unnecessary generation to land 

Regina, and for the junior and Alsopiedy, Valerie Weller, andSaint Mary's government were unnatural relationship between 
on the globe." Technology no 

senior class for next Walsh to
SBP Anne Marie Tracey, VP NO and SMC. They suggested officers Maureen were elected 
longer needs us for a labor force, 

year. the student assembly.
Jean Gorman, and Mary Anne that with education and the 
he said, while parasitical suvival 
Lonnie Donahue was elected From McCandless Hall JaneRossini. Representing Notre advent of co-education, some of 

is beneath our human dignity. 

senior class president over Sheila Sheehy was elected president.
Dame were Rich Urda, Judicial the causes of the raids will The solution to 
Co-ordinator, Orlando disappear. this problem Cronin. Lonnie said after the "McCandless has much to 
is for captial to spread out over 

Rodriguez, Human Affairs election "I'm excited" and "I offer this campus as a soley
Father McGrath said it was his 
the populations, not higher 

hope to work closer with Jim upperclass drom. I'm hoping for
Commissioner, and Don duty to protect the St. Mary's 
wages or more iobs. but capital 

D'Aurora year, some of autonomy
Mooney, Public Relations students but stated that he was next and form hall 
he explained. Kelso contends, 
hopefully class government will next year sp that each hall canCom missioner. hesitant to call in outside police 
that 80 to 90 percent of 
cope with its individualIn addition to Fr. McGrath, for fear of injuries to students. become meaningful again."

corporation stock is owned by

the Saint Mary's administration He suggested that the Also elected in the senior class problems," ssid Jane. 
five per cent of U.S. households. 
For the Student Asscmhlywas represented by Dean of responsibility for controlling the were Treasurer, Kerry Meyer,

Although this transition of 

Students Sister Mary raids should rest with the and Graduation chairman, Connie Byrne and Jeanne 
capital would be quite easy, 

Brenda Oates. Sweeney were elected.
lm maculata and Security students. 
according to Kelso, and not 

Director J. Parker. (continued on page 3) Next Year's junior class Freshman Laura Bayer was
harmful to the corporations, the 

re-elected Susie Way as elected Regina llall President
big businesses still try to hide 

President. Susie was opposed by · last night by the '70-'71
the lack of demand for labor. 

Margaret Conwell. Susie also residents of the hall. Debbie
They do this by making excuses 

hopes to work well with Greg Carvat ta received the same
such as "The youth must require 

Stepic, the NO Junior class position in lloly Cross llall. 
more and more vocational 

President to further their efforts Laura, currently a Regina
training." Military employment 

to make the class government resident, served as a Hall Council
also helps get nd of the excess 

merger an actuality. Reprcscntat ive this year. Withworkers, he said. 
She added that "I would like the help of the residents, the hall
Unemployment figures arc 

to change the concept of class can become a center forStrikers to meet government from dealing with recreational social, intellectual There will be a meeting just social aspects, to working on and community-oriented tonight in the conference room things like Biafran Relief, SAR, projects on campus next year," of Strike headquarters for all and also co-operate with she said. people who are presently con­Academic Commissioner." 
She wished to thank those ducting projects connected with Ann Jones was elected Vice supporting her and even more 
the strike (e.g. ecnomic boycott, President and Vita de Jean was importantly she asked for "the canvassing, etc.) or who have elected secretary. Shawn Foley support of ideas, time and specific ideas for projects. was elected treasurer. 
interest from ewry girl who will The purpose of the meeting is The four halls elected their be living in Regina next year." to co-ordinate the different respective presidents and student Debbie C'arvatta served on the 



Economic boycott chairman Mike O'Shaughnessy received good activities and projects which are assembly members who will Student Assembly this semestl'r news yesterday when he learned Coca-Cola could be cancelled by the or could be started so that over represent their hall next year. 
( COillillliCd Oil page 3)

dining halls. (See page 3) lapping o work is avoided. Lc Mans residents elected 


THURSDAY, MAY 14, 1970

711E OBSERfiER.
PAGE 2 
•

Informal sem1nar groups organized 
by the academic amnesty pro-"The whole idea of these the seminars. certainly is no limit to people's 
by Bill Carter 
posal passed hy tile University mini-courses depends on how "But I think we've been ideas and the things they want 
3:30pm Law and the War George Williams 7:30pm Guerilla Theater 
Cambodia, bar U.S. payments to 

mercenaries, or military advisers 
John L. MacKenzie Mass Media Exhibition

to the Cambodian government 
Edward Isley Dining Hall Quad, SMC 

and cut off funds for U.S. air 
strikes in support of Cambodia. 
8:00pm Jane Kennedy Speaks

Some constitutional lawyers 
Also: 

say even if passed, the amend­
Mike Schahill 

ment is of doubtful effective­
Hermine Evans 

ness, in strict legal terms, be­
LaFortune Ballroom 
cause the constitution implicitly 

permits the President to take 

Pro-N·ixon letter writing

almost any reasonable step to 
protect American troops. This 

camp.aign group formed 

was his justification for entering
in 

Cambodia initially. A letter writing committee Any student who wishes a Scott has proposed an amend­has been formed to write letters letter sent to his representative 
ment to the Cooper Church to Senators and Congressmen or Senator, or both should call measure that would seal this urging them to support President 1026 and ask for Glen Corso or implicit power into the bill hy Nixon's recent actions in South­Joe Cassini. The letters will by 
authorizing the President to take. east Asia. 
typed out and then given to the 
students to sign and mail

Prefer students majoring in business, advertising 
steps "as may be required to The organizers, by their ac­
tions, hope to convince members 
or psychology. 

of Congress that the academic community in the country is not' 
·unanimously opposed to the 
LOST 

Call Mr. Wood~ in Indianapolis at: 
Contact Lens in case 

President's policies and that Class elections
Iffound call John 12 85 

1-317-632-7846 
"some of these people are 1-317-632-2891 
willing to speak up." 
With the final tally of votes .L_---------------------------l--------------.L--------------,returned last evening, the Elec­
tion Committee of the Class of

Is there reaJJy a nude 
1971 'announced the following

GAMfUS Campus '70 
positions for the following year: James D'Aurora, President; 

scene m Carmina Burana? 
Michael Corrigan, Vice-Presidtmt; Anthony Early


SMC Hosts a 
Secretary; and Robert Bramlette, Treasurer. 

Conference on 



The Dome needs Photographers 
The only contested office was Treasurer, with the candidates Robert Bramlette and Lawrence 

Education 

June 16-20 
Ptasinski running three votes

If interested caB J J. Cottrell 
apart. 


Janet 


ND -SMC Delegates Needed 
Respect my sympath

8761 AFTER MIDNIGHT 
and deep concern. 
S'lfiAI.lSII:IH::> AI:II:I3IAI 
ET JE SUIS ...

Cal1 Father Downs 5377 
Working in conjunction with the "communiversity" effort, /'. cademic Affairs Commissioner tsiil Wilka announced yesterday plails for a progra111 of informal seminar groups to he set up within the haU structure. These will be a part of the educational experiment begun in coordination with the strike activities over the past week. 
Wilka said he ami some of the organizers of the communiversity project have been contacting members of the faculty in order to gain suppqrt for the idea. 
The program calls for meet­ings of small groups of students with individual professors to discuss topics on a far Jess formal level than the classroom. Wilka said the aim of the plan was to get the seminars into the halls on a floor by floor, or if possible, by section basis. 
Whenever possible the profes­sor would meet with the group up to fou~ or five times, expanding the discussion so that the experience might be as meaningful as possible. 
Wilka said he was pushing the idea for a number of reasons but primarily because he felt it was a great opportunity for students and faculty alike to engage in a new direction in the learning process. 
He also emphasized the pre­sent as the ideal time for the Academic Council. much response we get and a handed a great opportunity and to talk about," Wilka said. 

"I believe the informal semi-number of other detaifs such as we should make of it what we He. has drawn up a list of 
nars will function in the spirit of the amount of free time each can. It's up to the students to professors expressing some in­
the proposal passed by the professor will have to work with make usc of the program, there terest in the idea and said he 
would be working tomorrow and

Academic Council," Wilka said. F Cambodia 
over the weekend to get some of

"With so many students drop-0 r . 
the final detads for the program

ping and suspending 
their ·F nd cut effort grow•·ng 
completed.

courses there is a real chance for 
U 

students to experience some­thing new in education. Any subject at all can be discussed in the seminars, we want to work it out so that the program is as flexible and open as possible." 
"This can really be an impor­tant educational thing," Wilka continued. "The students can honestly work on some of the things they are really interested in, instead of something they have to do. We've contacted people from St. Mary's and are working to get as many girls as possible involved in the project." 
The group Wilka is working with is trying to get the program organized in a hurry, aiming to begin the seminars next week. The plans call for afternoon and evening sessions set up within the halls. Wilka said the group was working with the Hall Presidents' Council in coordina­ting the idea. 
Wilka emphasized that the 
topics for discussion would not 
be determined solely by the 
professor, but that any student 
or group of students are free to 

contact the seminar organizers 
and describe a topic which they 
would like to hear discussed. 

Wilka invited students to let him or the Academic Affairs Office know what topics they were interested in. He said there would be an immediate effort to find a professor to lead the requested discussions. 
Wilka said he had people working to sound out opinion 
WASHINGTON (UP!)-Sen­ate Republicans searched yester­day for a way to cope with a snowballing effort to shut off funds for continuing U.S, mili­tary operations in Cambodia. 
With a vote tentatively scheduled for early next week, the GOP leadership called a meeting for today to find a party position on the legislation designed to hold President Nixon to his promise of a quick end to U.S. attacks on border sanctuaries in Cambodia. 
GOP leader Hugh Scott pre­dicted a three way split with some members supporting the antiwar measure, another bloc preferring no amendment at all and the other third favoring a compromise approach that woudl affirm the President't powers as commander in chief. 
The Cambodian measure, 
sponsored by Sens. John 
Sherman Cooper, R Ky.; and 
Frank, Church, D Idaho, was 
attached to a foreign military 
sales bill that was cleared by the 
Foreign Relations Committee 
last week. 
Senate Democratic leader 
Mike Ma'nsfie.ld said a show 
down probably will be post­
poned until next week, but there 
was still a possibility the Senate 
would vote tomorrow. 
The Cooper Church measure 

would prohibit the use of 
congressional appropriations for 
"retaining" American Troops in protect the armed forces of the Wilka added the group who United States." · Cooper and had formulated the · informal Church cont~nd this would seminar idea was presently look­create a loophole that might ing into the possibility of ex­sanction further expansion of tending the project into next the war in Cambodia. year. 

Communiversity 
As a result of negotiations following the Communi-versity -Community meeting on Monday, planning for community programming is under way. Representatives from I.U .S.B., ND-SMC and South Bend are organizing into spes;ialized committees for community action. 
Those interested may contact any of the coordinating committees. •Ar-eas under organization include: factory leafletting and union coordinating, Black and Chicano community participation, highschool and Church coordinating, neighborhood centers, including day care action, and police education. 
Communi.versity is also sponsoring committee action in cultural and medial activities such as Guerilla theater touring, press, TV, and news releases. Other Community coordinating includes fund raising, treasury reports, Faculty coordinating, and a weekly informative newsletter. 
Nine men and nine women are neede now to work with union representatives in the Chicanp community Saturday. 
On the national scene, Syracuse University has set up a nationwide telephone relay service· for efficient dissemination of information and news from other universities. 
Staughton Lynd has made a special appeal to speak with the canvassers with hopes of having an informal exchange of incidents and reactions which occurred in their community efforts. He will be speaking at I: 00 pm in the La Fortune 
Ballroom. Everyone. is invited. 
THURSDAV.. MAY 14 
1:00pm Seminar: Staughton Lynd 7:00pm Talks to the canvassers LaFrotune Ballroom Strike History o~ South'Bend Phil Webre Flanner Pit 

THURSDAY, MAY 14, 1970 711B OBSERfJER. 
PAGE 3 

Coke may exit dining halls 
Yl'ar. 
IIc said it will be pointed out l'le raids fall under Ihe rule against "public disturbances" in 
the Student llandhook and university and dvil action taken, if I hal was the only way to prl·vcnt future r<.~ids. 
Rich Urda pointed out thai Notre Dame adminslration policy is only to W<Htl the SMC security that a raid is in progress, hut not to take action. It was' suggested that Notre Dame student governmemt call for some sort of disciplinary action <Jgainsl p<Jrlicipanls in future raids such as April's. 
SMC elections 

(con Iinued frum page I) 
as a representative: of the freshman class. 
Debbie expressed the desire of "greater student involvment on the hall level." She hopes the new hall constitution and hall government strudure will 
provide an avenue to that goal. 
"We must gel the members of the hall working together." She stressed the need to personalize Ihe halls on campus and called 
for  the  actualization  of  the  
community  ideal  within  the  
resiLience halls.  

Student Assembly positions were also filk:u last night hy the elt:dios of h<Jil Sen<Jtors. 
<; inny Zucc<Jro and Nan Albers now fill two of the Regina 11<~11 senate positions. The remaining position will be filled in September. 
Three senators were elected to rcprl'sent lloly Cross llall on the As~cmhly. The new Assembly members ;trc Jeanie Naumann, Pat Miller anu Kathy Murphy. 

STARTS FRI. 

ANTONIONI's rz:r m ~~a 
jlf.Jnlll~i IUtll 
d:IDDilrDl 
•~1•1n~llllii 
m:. ~a mar:a:t 
II~'~U~I' II lUll II 
Open Daily 6:30 ~ Sunday 12:45 

The Observer is published dally during the college semester except var.atlons by students of the Unl· verslty of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from the Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
served. 
The dining hall official said l hat the foou service ex1sls to "serve the student body." 
Fat her William Lewers told headquarters last night that the current act ion against I he Coca-Cola and Philip Morris compantcs probably had no major legal problems. 
Lewers  is  a  professor in the  
Law School.  
Lewers  said  that  his  

experience with the Civil Rights 
movement in the South and the 
gr<Jpe boycott indicated that as 
long as the boycott emphasized 
its dem<Jnd for future action and 
not punishment for past <Jction, 
he foresaw no leg<JI problems. 
LeWl'rs indicated 111~11 the 

adion was not secondary 
boycotting that could be ·covered ~y Labor laws 
FIRST FRID·AY 
9:00-J:OO Friday 


Hair Styling 
jiJr ND men the Continental Way 
· Kazor Cutting & StyiC' · 
l:!.!ropcau Layer Shahin~ fvr Long Hair

Have Long Harr & · . • · 
"' II (' d I.e/ 11/rss Treva & The Baron

8e n C tfOOinC "
.,cn•e & /'amper }'ou 
Continental Hair Styling
306 Sherland Bldg. South Bend, Ind. Student Rates 234-0811 By Appt. 
This may lw tht• last t im t• you 'II ht•a r t hem A nd 


Saturday 
AMERICA 


TIIB OBSERflllt THURSDAY, MAY 14, 1970
PAGE 4 

s·partans halt l,rish momentum, 4-1 


second inning tally on a double
by Jim Dona~son his round-tripper, sending Pruitt Notre Dame, now 12-1 2 on Saturday at Cartier Field. Ace
by Bill Orga, a wild pitch and a
Observer Sportswriter across the plate before him. the year, will swing into action hurler Ron Schmitz will get the
Spartan error. Third baseman
Karkut suffered his fifth loss again thisweekend, playing host nod in Friday's while Jim Phelps
Rich Vary booted Irish third
Shawn Nowitt's two-run in seven mound decisions for the to Wayne State in a single game. and Karkut are listed as possible
sacker Tom O'Conner's grounder
homer in the bottom of the Irish, yeilding 11 hits to the on Friday and a doubleheader starters in Saturday's twin bill. 
to allow Orga to cross the plate.
eighth inning propelled the Spartans in a route-going perfor­Michigan State Spartans to a 4-1 mance. Karkut fanned three and Karkut held MSU in check for victory over the Fighting Irish did not issue a base on balls. the first six frames but the JIM MURRAY 
baseball team and put an end to Phil Fulton, who came on in Spartans nicked him for a run in Notre Dame's five game winning relief of MSU starter Kirk Maas the seventh inning on a single by streak, Tuesday in East Lansing. in the seventh inning, hurled Steve Cerez, a sacrifice, and ·a Va1ley Forge.
Trailing 2-1 entering the three shutout innings for the single by Gary Boyce. Howitt's eighth frame, the Spartans poun­Spartans to pick up the win. He circuit clout in the eighth put an ced on Irish starter Mickey gave up a pair of hits to the end to Irish hopes of sixth The Alamo and Karkut for three runs. in their Irish, striking out one batter 
straight triumph. and Rob Ellis, half of the stanza. Rob Ellis led while none. Maas was touched 
who had thrl!e hits apiece, Ron 
off by rapping a single. Ron for three safeties in his six inning 
Mexico City

Pruitt who banged a pair of Pruitt succeeded him at the dish stint. He gave up the only Irish 
doubles and plate, banging out and drilled a long double that run, whiffed five men and passed © 1970, Los Angeles Times
two of their five hits. Pacing the 
enabled Ellis to scamper home one. 
Spartan attack were Gary Boyce has always been lucky in its time of need. At Valleyfrom first base. Howitt then The Irish grabbed a 1-0 lead 
and Rob Ellis, who had three Forge, At Richmond, Grant. At the Alamo,decided the contest by slamming early in the game, notching a 
hits apiece, Ron Pruitt who Davy the Rhine, we had Patton. At Inchon, banged a pair of doubles and Howitt.NO tennis team w1ns aga1n It ~eems that every time the had received a series of crushing Irish travel to East Lansing for a on the victory stand (and before) at the game in any sport they have a Mexico Olympics. Our athletes raised clenched fists and lowered
The Irish tennis team Jefeated Theissen and Rob O'Malley lost clenched teeth as our Flag was raised or waved black berets. We were
Kalamzoo six to three Tuesday their singles matches. The rough time coming out with a victory and this was certainly no a humiliated country.
to increase their season record to doubles teams of LeSage-Reilly exception. This game concludes No one shook his fist at the Soviet flag. Russians and Czechs (even 13 wins and six losses. Buster and Brown-Theissen were vic­the season series with the Spar­though the latter still had tank tracks over them) stood stolidly onBrown, Bernie LaSage, Mike torious for the Irish, while the tans and they took three of the the victory stand together at rigid attention during the playing ofReilly, and Rob Schefter won number three doubles team of four ·encounters. each other's anthems. So did East Germans and West Germans andsingles matches for the Irish; Gil Schefter-Greg Murray lost. 
Hungarians. The Soviets never seem to have a bit of trouble with any one of their minorities. At least, not for long. One hundred nineteen countries took part in the Games and not one except America got jeered at in public by any of its citizens. 

NFL goes Hollywood 
A lot of us, therefore, behaved as if there were a message at the desk, "Call Nathan Hale," or as if the statue of Lincoln suddenly
by Milton Richman 

For the first time in Super The audience in the Capri reached for a microphone when George Foreman won the Olympic UPI Sportswriter Bowl history the coach of a Theater ate that one up. heavyweight boxing titlw and, as the Anthem was played, suddenly KANSAS CITY (UPI) -The competing team allowed himself Hank Stram really emotes in broke out, not a black glove but a red, white and blue flag which he 
house lights in the Capri Theater to be wired for sound. proceeded to kiss.
"Super Bowl" and among those here came back on again follow­There's one shot for example who laughed their heads off in It was Gettysburg all over again. We had crossed the Delaware and "' ing a special premiere Tuesday where Mike Garrett makes some the audience watching him Tues­turned back the Hessians. A bugle blew across Appomattox. The 
night, a premier of a film called good yardage against the Vikings day night were many of his dead rested easily in Spotsylvania. Thro' the perilous fight, our flag "Super Bowl" showing the Kan­and Karl Kassulke, Minnesota's players like Buck Buchanan, Jim was still there. sas City Chiefs demolishing the tight safety, is seen floundering Tyrer, Ed Budde, Otis Taylor; George Foreman is a seventh or eighth (or maybe lOth) 
Minnesota Vikings, 23-7, for somewhat. The camera pans to Johnny Robinson, Jan Stenerud generation American whose skin has been burned black by the sun the professional football cham­Stram on the sidelines gleefully and Willie Lanier, to name only of centuries. He comes from a long line of people who have worked pionship at New Orleans last shouting to his players: a few. Stram's wife, Phyllis, also outdoors on land so hot, cotton grows on it. He is as American as January, and the new star born "Kassulke was running around was in the audience and she possum pie. He is a piney woods American, the America of train 
during the performance sat there there like it was a Chinese fire whistles on a hot summer night.
enjoyed the performance as in his seat blushing a little. drill." much as anyone. George had been fairly advised he would be bucking a trend by The film is unusually good, any show of patrioti~m. White Americans in the world-wide 'IV even for the Sabol family whose audience as well as the arena audience would have been relieved if he 
Sarin cadets unbeaten 
work invariably is superior to ·just accepted the medal. He didn't even have to stand at attention much of the stuff Hollywood during the playing of the Anthem. Just don't throw anything.
Sarin Riflemen Club has com­44 in a tournament at Colorado puts out. Steve Sabol is the Was it a "showboat" stunt? An "Uncle Tom-ism?" A backlash at pleted its first undefeated season Mines and II th out of 33 at the director and producer of "Super the Tommie Smith-John Carlos black glove demonstration? A bid in dual competition. The team South Dakota State Tourna­Bowl" sponsored by American for sympathy?
has defeated: Western Maryland,', ment. 
Express and to be seen on "It was just a spur-of-the-moment thing, Foreman, who is here for Rose Poly Tech, Hardin Sim-· Bill Klliot, John Gangl and CBS-TV on May 24 while Ed a fight Saturday, explained slowly the other day. "Somebody mons, Howe, Morgan State, Ken Simpson represented the Sabol, Steve's father, is execu­handed me a flag and I put it in my robe in case I won. When I won,Lafayette College in Pennsyl­Club at Small Bore Indoor 
tive producer. I did what I did." 
vania, and University of Matches Camp Perry. They
Ten­at Ed Sabol went to him two Was he trying deliberately to counter the impression Tommie 
nesse. The team was led by Bill took three trophies in individual Smith and Carlos gave that all black Americans were disaffected?
days before the Super Bowl
Elliot averaging 271. Other championships. The future looks Foreman shook his head. 
game and if you remember,
shooters are John Gangl (270), very bright since only Eichorn Hank Stram had a few things on "They did what they wanted to do. They can make their Bob Rettig (264), Bob Eichorn and Killion are seniors and his mind at the time, like the demonstration and that makes them just as much American as I am. 
(259), Bruce Killion (252), Ken returning from Italy this fall are 
That's the point. There were lots of other countries, other peoples,
Len Dawson crisis among other
Simpson (256) and Steve Brevig. two shooters from the 1968-69 
out there that had a lot of gripes, but they were scared to make it. The team finished ninth out of team, Frank Liebner and Tom "Hank, I wanna do something But I had no quarrel with John and Tommie. We're a free people,things. 
Kearns. 

you know." fore," Sabol said. 
that has never been done be­
Wasn't he then making a statement? "I want to put a concealed 
George frowned. 

MAJOR LEAGUES 
microphone, the size of your "I'm no intellectual. I'm a professional prizefighter. To make thumb, under your shirt and a statements, I think, is the job of intellectuals. I was a junior high
NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE 
transmittor, the size of a pack­school dropout. I'm proud to be an American. And glad. I came
East East 
age of cigarettes, in your from a matriarchal family. My mother raised us by working as a
w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB 
pocket," Sabol said, "and you cook.
Chicago 16 13 .552 Baltimore 22 8 .733 New York 16 16 .500 1Y. New York 17 15 .531 6 have to understand that we will The Job Corps took me and taught me conservation and some *St. Louis 13 14 .481 2 Detroit 15 14 .517 6Y. record everything you say during electronics. I thought the Olympics was the greatest experience *Pittsburgh 14 17 .452 3 Boston 14 15 .483 7Y. the game." anyone could have. I looked around at the rest of the world and I *Philadelphia 13 18 .419 4 Washington 13 17 .433 9 Sabol, who is president of didn't see nuthin' better." Cleveland 10 16 .385
*Montreal 9 20 .310 7 10 NFL Films, didn't think Stram Didn't he get a lot of hate mail from black activists? would ·go for the idea. Stram George shook his head again. fooled him. He did. And that's "I got good mail from everybody and I got just as much good mail
West

West California 20 10 .667 
what it's all about. from black Americans as from all other kinds of Americans. There
Cincinnati 24 9 .727 

Minnesota 18 There had been some specula­ain't no one kind, you know."
10 .643 *Los Angeles 17 13 .567 5Y. Oakland 15 16 .484 5Y. tion after KC's win in the Super George, only 21, fights Scrap Iron Johnson at the Forum *San Fran. 16 17 .485 8 Chicago 13 17 .433 7 Bowl that Stram might leave the Saturday night in his march to a title fight. I don't know if he'll *Houston 15 17 .469 8!1, Kansas City 10 18 .357 9 Chiefs to go with the New Milwaukee 
Atlanta 18 13 .581 5 

*San Diego 15 19 .441 gy, 10 21 .323 10Y. Orleans Saints. Now there's no night games not included in standings 
chance, Pete Rozelle, the foot­ball commissioner, said before the film was shown Tuesday
New York 4 Chicago 0 New York 0 
Milwaukee 0, 4th inn. Montreal4 Philadelphia 3, 7th inn. Baltimore 2 Minnesota 2, 4th inn. night. Pittsburgh 1 St. Louis 1, 3rd inn. Kansas City 0 Cleveland 0, 9th inn. 
"The great concern isn't New San Francisco at San Diego, night Chicago at Detroit, night Orleans," Rozelle said, with a Houston at Los Angeles, night Washington at Oakland, night perfectly straight face. "It's Boston at California, night Hollywood. 








