----~----·--·--~--­
Motherhood =Parasitism 
Ti Grace Atkinson attacks church 
By L. Emmet 3allantine to the speaker's remarks. Atkinson declared that the Wo­sitism, Ti Grace regarded it as and Jack O'Neil For more than an hour Atkin­men's Movement should have another method to keep women son spoke on tile Church's posi­first shot at destroying it: "the oppressed. She said, "The 
Ti Grace Atkinson, noted tions on: abortion, marriage motherfucker belongs to us," Church has always kept the nig­women's liberation advocate, and the family, motherhood, she said. gers in their place whether they delivered a lengthy attack on the sex, and its prominence as a "The Church's chief source of be women or what." Church's role in "holding wo­legislative and political power. income today is women's vagi­Turning her final attention to 
men down" in a speech in the Beginning with abortion nas," she said. Continuing she the Church as a political pow.er library auditorium last night. In Atkinson stated "at the mildest went on to say that in marriage Atkinson revealed in this coun­announcing plans to destroy the the Church should be charged today, "the husband lays the try "the wealth of the Church is Church's subjugation of women, with premeditated murder." She ground rules," citing that was second only to that of the fed­one of the country's leading informed the audience that "important in holding the wo­eral government's." She asserted feminist claimed that the Church when she started working for men down." that for this reason, in addition as a political and e..:onomic anti-abortion legislation in New The speaker then turned her to the Church's blatant inter­
power has done more than any York four years ago, pregnant attention towards the Church's ference with the Women's move­other institution to enslave wo­women were dying there at the stand on Motherhood, in par­ment, "it must lose its tax ex­men. rate of two per day. The church ticular that of Christ's mother. empt status." Atkinson further. Declaring that "I don't have was a major reason for the bill's · Atkinson declared the concept charged the church with being time for shit tonight," Atkinson defeat, she declared. of the Virgin Mary was hard to "a professional conspiracy" and informed her audience that any She claimed that as Catholics, take. "The real power, i.e. God, a "pimp for the federal govern­leaves no mark . . . Mary was
disrupter would be removed by ". . . You are responsible for ment." She com pared the 
knocked up, knocked down,
the Notre Dame security police. what the church does in your church's conspiracy with that of The overflow crowd of some name." Because the church "was with no clues," she stated. Eq ua­the, Mafia's, d_eclaring that the 
Ti Grace Atkinson

650 people had various reactions built on the backs of women," ting motherhood with para-church was indeed Professional. 


Vol. V, No. 27 Serving the Notre Dame• and Sa{nt Mary's Co/lege ('ommunity Friday, October 16,1970 

Hall presidents continue discussion of constitution 
by Fred Schaefer from the HPC. Eight members The Council is supposed to Last night the Hall President's present expressed agreement make rulings on 'violations of Council met to discuss the pro­with this position. Four mem­the Student Government Con­posed Student Government Con­bers objected to the body having 
.stitution' according to the doc­stituition. The only objections anything to do with the budget. ument. Barkett expressed fear raised to the proposed document 
Earlier in the week, the Presi­that "If the President were vio­dents had worked out thier ownconcerned the budgetary powers 
lating the Constitution, he which. are delegated to the HPC 
revisions to the proposed con­wouldn't call any meeting, andstitution, all dealing with the
in the charter. as chairman, he's the one who
Article on the President's
Tom Blumer, president of does call the meetings."
Council. They included making
Keenan, suggested that the Fi­He also objected to the clause
the SBP merely a member of the
nance Committee be given con­that states, "The Student Body trol of the budget, with only a body, rather than Chairman as President will call a general as­
HPC Chairman John Barkett had been originally proposed. 
token final approval needed sembly of the undergraduateThis was the only major 
student body at least once dur­change they suggested. They did ing his term of office." He feels
New Senators vary responses 
not change the proposed that the SBP should not befunctions of the body. 
forced to call such a meeting. He 
"has set about most nobly to After the meeting, John Bar­
by Dan T:lornton to the infidel pathologists." feels " unless there's a big issue, 
solve a problem that needs solv­kett, chairman of the HPC, ex­
"The document itself is a lit­
According to a series of inter­these meetings are flops. Like
ing and has failed most miserab­pressed his objections to the
tle rough; it needs alittle polish­
views conducted by The Obser­last year, we had the strike, and
ly." ing," said Senator John R. proposed constitution. 
ver, the new constitution pro­everyone was interested so they
Treanor indicatecl that there is The new document calls for
Amerena of Morrissey Hall when
posed by SBP Dave Krashna will went. But if there's not a big
no guarantee that the Constitu­the SBP to chair the Judicial
asked about the new constitu­
meet a varied response in this issue, these meetings will be fail­
tion that has been leaked to the tion. Amerena believes that the: Council.Barkett said,"I wouldn't
year's edition of the Student ures.,., On the whole, he said that 
press is the one that will be on object to him being a member
usefulness of the Senate is de­
Senate. the proposed document "Reallythe ballot, adding that "only pendent on the P.eople involved but I don't think he should be
Off-campus Senator Don is not bad"
radical revision could possibly chairman of the Council.''_
Mooney feels that "making what (Continued on page 8)
redeem th thing."
is basically the HPC the 'legis> Asked about what he con­lative body' of student govern­sidered specifically wrong with 
Sodot confirmed by voter!
ment will facilitate closer ties Krash na's proposal, Senatorbetween the SBP and his cabinet Treanor called the abolition of
and the hall governments. I 
(UPI) Egyptians voted State for Near Eastern Affairs,
the Senate a major mistake and
think this new emphasis on the Thursday in a nationwide ref­accused the Kremlin of helping
contended that having the Stu­
Hall Presidents will give Hall erendum to confirm Anwar Egypt to violate the 90 day
dent Body President as chairman
Government more legitimacy. Sadat as President of Egypt, cease fire that is the basis of the
of the Hall President's Council succeeding the late Gamal Ahdel
Sometimes, Hall Presidents get current U.S. peace initiative. 
"equally ludicrous." 
Nasser whose foreign and domes-
elected by promising more beer In Moscow, the Communist
Treanor finds it "obvious that , tic policies he has pledged to
per capita. With these new Party newspaper Pravda accused
the Senate needs major surgery, 
powers more quality people will continue. Sadat, the only candi­Washington of ignoring a Soviet
but the suggested destruction date, was expected to win an
run for Hall President." plan which it said would bring
would leave the University with­overwhelming endorsement. 
In reference to the Senate, peace to the Middle East and of
I

out a totally student legilslative The Arab Israel cease fire lines 
Mooney, who is also Public Rela­encouraging Israel to sabotage
body. That would be absurd." 
remained quiet but there was no
tions Director of the Krashna efforts to reach a politicalIn response to the question letup in the diplomatic war of
Cabinet, believes that the Stu­settlement. dent Life Council has "up­whether he thought the new words over the crisis in the Government officials in Cairo 
Constitution is a power play on Middle East. 
staged" the Senate as a "recom­said Egypt had completely
President Krashna's part, Sen­The United States and Soviel
mendative body to the Univer­endorsed the Soviet peace plan
ator Treanor replied: "The new Union swapped charges which
sity," adding that "the SLC can which called for withdrawal Of 
constitution is a mistake. Its some observers feared dampened
make law -the Senate can only Israel forces from Arab territory
effect will be to eliminate will be hopes than any quick sol uti on 
talk." occupied in the 1967 war, 
to eliminate an important check could be worked out at the
The new Constitution, pro­creation of demilitarized zones 
on the power of the President. I current session of the U.N.
posed by President Krashna, is manned by U.N. troops and 
find no purpose in attempting to General Assembly in New York.
"a disaster," according to newly guarantees from the Big Four 
determine if that was a con­In Washington, Joseph J.
elected Badin Hall Senator T. C. powers or the U.N. Security
scious motivation of Mr. 
Sisco, Assistant Secretary of
Treanor. Krashna, said Treanor, Council. 
Krashna and !leave the question Don Mooney 
Page 2 THR OBSERfJER. Friday, October 16, 1970 
Pre-Law Society Case-Western Reserve Franklin Thomas Backus School of Law, Cleveland, Ohio. Daniel T. Clancy Assistant Dean is scheduling interviews for pro· specthte students on Tuesday, October 20, in Room 205 Busi­ness Buildin . 
W•shlnaton University School of L•w 
A Representative of the Wash­ington University School of Law (St. Louis) will be on campus Monday, October 19, to talk to students planning to enter law school upon graduation, or think­ing about it. Make appointments outside 101 O'Shaughnessy. 
by Sue Bury 

Last weekend's St. Mary's College Board of Trustees meet­ing included a report from the college development committee, a standing board committee. 
Edward L. Recker, chairman of the committee and head of campus development, described the functions of the board de­velopment committee as coor­dinating programs for increased endowments, gifts, and bequests, doing public relations work for the college and establishing closer ties with the South Bend 


~=~~;;;:;,~;=:;·;;;;;~ 
5:15 p.m. Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
8:30 a.m. Sun. Fr. Daniel Curtin, C.S.C. 
9:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Donald Abbott, C.S.C. 
11:00 a.m. Sun. Fr. John Quinn 
12:45 p.m. Sun. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 


Presents 



Committee ,addresses S~IWC trustees 
community and neighboring col­leges. 
The committee reported at the board meeting that improved lighting fadlities had bel'n in­st~llcd on the third floor of the library and that some books had been removed to Regina Hall to provide more study space. These changes were a result of the previous board meeting. 
The committee recommended 

that research be done on the . possibility of opening more space on campus for study· 
purposes. · ­
Some improvements made in the science building were de­scribed, and the committee sug­gested that all additional neces­sary work be completed by spring of 1972 so that labora­tories will be ready for classes next year. Mr. Recker said that a committee will be appointed to research the possibility of ap­proaching outside sources for the $45,000 needed to complete improvements. 
The committee suggested to faculty and students at St. Mary's that if they have a pro­ject in mind that requires fund­ing, they should research it tho­roughly and may present a "complete package" to the committee at any time, according to Mr. Recker. 
A program for deferred giving -that is, gifts that come to the college through wills, insurance policies. and other indirect 
means -was proposed at the 
'Joughts foes preoccupied;. 

concede battle for now WASHINGTON (UPI)-Su­preme Court Justice William 0. Douglas, who will be 72 on Friday, has survived another round in the long, sporadic battle by conservative minded Congressmen to have him im­peached. ­
His opponents, who began the 

latest attack  on  him last spring,  
have  fallen  silent  in  recent  
weeks.  

.TYPING. 

ny material, any length, 
charts and diagrams. $.50/page. Will pick itp and 
eliver. Call Connie Paden 28 





JIM MORAN' 
plus 

terri lustlc 
8:30p.m. Saturday Niaht Only 

meeting. It was decided that three-year, $5 million fund­some information-explaining raising drive, began campaign how to arrange this type of gift operations in Chicago during the 
would be sent out to alumni and s urn mer, with a goal of friends of the college, but that $750,000 for that city. further study would be done to Mr. Recker said that the basic determine what groups should purpose of the development receive the information. The re-office is fund-raising for im­sults of this study will be re-provement of conditions on ported back to the committee campus. He explained that re­for consideration in the spring. cent government cutbacks in 
Among those participating ·in . financial aid have affected such 
the committee activities were Dr. Richard Pilger, an SMC fac­ulty member, committee chair­man William E. Cahill, of Cahill & Gallagher of Chicago, and St Mary's SBP Ann-Marie Tracey. This year marked the first time that a student was invited to attend a meeting of the associate board of trustees. 
Mr. Recker explained that the development committee and the other board committees report to the associate board of trus­tees, which consists of the trus­tees plus the associate trustees. This board; in turn, makes rec­ommendations to the actual board of trustees about college policy from the -committee re­ports and other information. 
ln addition to its other re­ports, the committee described the progress ~f Program for the Seventies to the board. This things as scholarship and work study programs, but that cut­backs in building finances have not hurt the college that much. He said that St. Mary's is not at a "deciding point" with regards to new construction on campus. 
He pointed out that part of his office's fun_ction is making individuals at St. Mary's aware of development activities, and cited the fact that all groups in the college, including students, are represented on the board committees. Mr. Recker said that the late college president, Msgr. John J. McGrath, support­ed this kind of representation. 
Mr. Recker said that in rela­tion to the other board commit­tees -which deal with execu­tive, financial, educational, and student policies -the develop­ment committee has a well-de-­fined area of concern. 
Studenl~s to aid lowen~stein 
by Greg Rowinski 
Notre Dame Students for Lowenstein met last night to plan a pre-election trip to New York's 5th District for their candidate. The group is seeking to organize at least 40 students to travel to Long Island the weekend before the election. The length of· the trip will be flexible, according to c o -cooridnator Lance Corey' with bus transportation planned for October 29, with return trip on November l. Those driving will be free to leave and return at their convenience. 
Automobile costs will be paid by the Campaign for Lowen­stein; bus expenses . will be di­
vided between the Campaign and the students. 
The group will set up tables in 

the dining halls and the Library to get more information to inter­ested students. 
Corey feels that it is vital for students, especially Notre Dame students, to be involved in this campaign. He feels that this is the opportunity to show that the students are an effective political force in this country. 
by longhairs, Corey answered 
that this is the time to show that 
longhairs, as well as shorter 
-haired students, feel that "This 
is my country, too." 
Notre Dame students have al­ready proved their sp_ecial worth in campaigns. Their effect was noticeable in Cong. Allard Lo­wenstein's first campaign in Catholic areas. In his speech at Notre Dame last year, Lowen­stein stated that his actions were "your (Notre Dame's)fault" be­cause of student's successes in heavily Republican districts that had already been written off. 
Notre Dame also has a special interest in Lowenstein as winner of last year's Senior Fellow 
A ward. Lowenstein's crusade has been made more difficult by legis­
lative gerrymandering which cost him Democratic support and attacks made by his opponent, State Senator Norman Lent. If one qllculates last campaign's returns, with the reshuffling in­eluded, one will find Lowenstein the loser by 21,000 votes. 
Further information about the trip can be obtained from 
When question.ned as to a. co-coordinators Lance Corey, possible negative effect on voters Dennis Dugan, and Ed Davey. 
SAINl.. LOUIS UNIVERSm SC:HOOL OF LAW 
DEAN RICHARD J. CHILDRESS and ASST. DEAN PETER SALSICH (A. B~ N.D.-'.59) 
WE WILL BE ON CAMPUS MONDAY, OCTO. ER 19TH FROM 9:30 AM -4:30 PM TO TALK WIT!. UDENTS ABOUT LAW SCHOOL, THE LEGAL PROFK . JN, AND SAINT LOUIS UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF ~...AW. OF PARTICULAR INTEREST TO· ::>TRE DAMF STUDENTS IS SAINT LOUIS UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW'S NEW JOINT J.D.-M.A. IN URBAN AFFAIRS PROGRAM. 
INTERVIEWS WILL BE IN THE HAYES-HEALY BUILDING. PLEASE CONTACT DEAN ROBERT J. WADDICK OR PRE-LAW SOCIETY FOR EXACT ROOM NUMBER. 
-~ 

The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postagepaid Notre Dame Ind. 46556. · · Friday, October 16, 1970 
Page 3 




Weekday social to be improved 
By Joe r-.1cKerns 
Student Union Director Bob Pohl described Wednesday night's "Over the Hill" free concert in LaFortune ballroom as a "change of atmosphere'' Music was supplied by The Symbol. Pohl said that the idea for the free concert came as a result of SBP Dave Krashna's proposal for a deviation from Notre Dame weekend oriented social life. Through "Over the Hill" Pohl 
liberation group protests the 
election of Homecoming queen 
Special to the Observer BALL STATE UNIVERSITY 
Women should not be judged for beauty and looks, but for their minds and for their indi­"viduality. 
This was the feeling of women liberators as they protested the election of Homecoming queen Tuesday at the LaFollette, Emens, and Tally Arcade voting polls. 
"While you're becoming more conscious of social and educa­tional issues, why not think about the uselessness of electing a Homecoming queen?" was the 
main  question  stated  on  a  
pamphlet  they  passed  out  to  
interested students.  

"There is a rising number of women who want to be judged as individuals on the basis of who they are and not how they look," was also printed on the pamphlet. 
It further refl.d, i'The Home­coming queen is a symbol of the woman's position in our society. 'Look pretty. keep your mouth shut (except \Vhen smiling), and you'll be a real success as a woman'." 
The purpose of the boycott accqrding tq one liberator, was "to make voters think! There really shouldn't be a male or female roles in our society. The roles of men and women should be compromised, equaled, and have little difference." 
A worker at the Tally Arcade voting booth commented on the 

SHUBERT 
THEATRE 
22W.MONROE CE 6-8240 THRU SAT., 
OCT. 17th 
Tlc:kete Available at Box Office 
BLACKSTONE 

THEATRE 
60 E. BALBO CE 6-8240 FROM TUES., 
OCT. 20th 
Tlcketa Available by Mall 
Specl•l Con•lder.tlon lor Group• 
Phone Mary Merlin 
641-5933 
effect the Women's Liberation group had on voters. 
"They didn't hurt us at all," said Roy Gropp, La Porte senior. "I was at the poll for 3 hours and saw a lot of kids pick up lib literature and talk with them, and then walk over to our tabie and vote." 
YAF to send 11ft to DMZ ltospltal 
Bruce Kuennan, president of the Notre Dame chapter of the Young Americans for Freedom announced Thursday that his organization had collected about $25 in its campaign to raise funds for hospitals in South Vietnam. Kuennan said that the money will be sent tomorrow to a hospital in Phu Bai, just south of the demilitarized zone. The Phu Bai hospital is the second closest to the DMZ. 
The money will be sent in the form of Halloween candy and fruit juice mixes, which were specially requested because of the undrinkable quality of the water in the area. 
Kuennan said that the goods will be distributed by a Y AF memher who is a nurse at the Ph u Bai hospital. The recipients 
of  the  goods  will  be  the  
servicemen  in  the hospital  and  
the surrounding base.  

Because of the success of the program this time, Kuennan said that Y AF was planning to do the same thing at Christmas. 
intends to break up the mono-financial difficulties prevent this tony existing between Saturdays at present. -Last night's group and Fridays. was paid out of Student Union 
Some students commented funds. that the concert was set at an Future free concerts will offer awkward time, right in the a variety of music, ranging from middle of mid-terms, but Pohl folk to hard rock. Pohl offers said that that was precisely the the opportunity to any indi­reason the concert was held. He vidual or group wishing to believes Wednesday night's get perform. If Student Union is not together, and upcoming ones to familiar with the talent, Pohl be sprinkled throughout the said auditions can be arranged year, will provide a good dis-by contacting Student Union traction for the student who is Social Commission. bored with studying. Pohl exem-Pohl also revealed other Stu­plified his statement by pointing dent Union plans that will out that last night's large turn-materialize soon. Within the out was primarily a shifting, next few weeks a coffee-house audience. People would come in will be opened in the Rathskellar for a while, listen to the music, of LaFortune. It will be open all relax, and then leave. day and will serve free coffee. 
Pohl and the rest of Student The idea behind it is to create an 
Union were satisfied with Wed-· atmosphere where a student can 
nesday's turnout. There have go without feeling he has to have 
been no definite dates set for the a date. 
future but there will definitely The coffeehouse will be a 
be more, he indicated. Pohl place for informal gathering and 
would like to hold one every relaxation. If the initial idea is a 
Wednesday but he said that success the possibility of having groups perform in the coffee­house on weekends has been looked into. These performances will be free and much like the Wednesday night gatherings. 
The Student Union ticket office is also extending its hours to accomodate off-campus stu­dents. Hours will now be 12-1 o'clock in the afternoon and 4-5 o'clock in the evening. The opening of a "ticketron" outlet in LaFortune is still being discussed with Chicago, but to date nothing has been turned up. Pohl said that tickets for con­certs can be obtained in South Bend at Robertson's Department Store. 
A series of concerts to be held in Stepan Center were also disclosed. Blues singer Luther Allison, who last year was widely acclaimed when he per­formed in front of Washipgton Hall, is scheduled to appear on October 31 in Stepan. Rock group "Rare Earth" will perform 
(Continued on page 8) 



Attention OBSERVER Staff ­General Staff Meeting in the Office Friday at 4:45 
(DOME PICTURES TO BE TAKEN) 

Top Artists! Maior Labels! GetYour Favorites at Big Discounts! 
Page4 THE OBSERVER. Friday, O_stober 16,1970 


--=----------------------------------------------r======================================= 





THE OBSERVER 
All Independent Student New5paper GLEN-S. CORSO, Editor GAETANO M. DeSAPIO, Publisher 
.FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1"966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

SECURITY GUARDS AND 

BAD TIMES AHEA~D 

"Sky" is a security guard on the North Quad. He's easily close to seventy years olri. Had fate been kind to him, one is forced to speculate he could be enjoying this advanced age in relative quiet. But he chose to be a policeman, and policemen seldom make enough money in their lives to retire comfortably. So Sky is a security guard, for low wages, at the University of Notre Dame. 
In a good night, Sky can be expected to be shoved around a couple of times, insulted repeatedly,· and ndiculed in a remarkably bitter and vindictive tone as he strolls through the halls of North Quad dorms. Blatant violations of the laws he was appointed to protect jeer at him as he passes the rooms, because he is physically incapable of stopping them. But he needs the money, one gathers, and he continues to play in the farce. 
"Hurdcahe" must be close to seventy-five. He works the South Quad, shuffling slowly through the halls, stopping occasionally in a lounge for a cup of coffee or some soda. 
Hurricane is humiliated every time he walks through the halls. Someone inevitably makes a play for the gun he doesn't have. He's mawled by the various specimens of home Neandrathal, looking for a few laughs at his expense. Sometimes, suddenly and without warning, people will jump in front of him. Last year somebody tied himself in a laundry bag and the thing hung on the stairway. Hurricane almost had a heart attack. 
But, one gathers, Hurricane needs the money, and so he stays on. 

Not everyone needs the money Notre Dame pays its security guards, or the abuse the students pay to the men who try to serve them. A Notre Dame Security Guard makes sixty-five hundred dollars a year -barely subsistance wages. The albuse he takes, if not incalculable, is a grim calculation indeed. 
And they leave, eventually. The youngest, the strongest, and the best leave first, because eventually the misery they and their co-workers have to take drives them out. Tlzey have done the best they can in behalf of the students. They have done nothing to merit student's outrage. So they quit, leaving only those who probably couldn't find employment elsewhere. 
Then something like last weekend's incident at Alumni happens. A car is vandalized. Or a room is vandalized. Or something is stolen. Or someone is knifed. And nobody's there to help out. And students get angrier, and take their anger out on the security guard. 
The Observer does not like the direction this problem is taking. While only a fool would contend that the Security problem would be solved if students treated the guards like human beings with their own d!gnity, only a fool would contend that the Security problem could be solved if that step is not taken. 


COCKROACHES 

No one should have to live with cockroaches. They are ugly, large, and decidedly unpleasantt They are most bold, and their bite hurts and leaves a noticeable mark. 
At the moment, St. Edward's hall is infested with cockroaches. They have entered rooms at will. and more than one resident has found himself surprised by a strange bedfellow. Going to bed becomes unpleasant in itself if one doesn't know for sure what is waiting for hini. 
Fumigating the place should be on top of the University's priority sheet. Attempts have been made to kill the things off, but those attempts have failed. More drastic attempts then, must be made. For nothing_is more grossly unfair than to take a man's money, promise him a dorm, and stick him in the middle of a cockroach nest. 
Exeeutive Editor: John Knorr Associate EditOf"s: Davti Stauffer, Sue B• Managing Editor: Bill Carter 
Night Editor: John Abowd Editorial Page Editor: T.C. Treanor 
Ass't Night Editor: L. Emmet Ballantine . News Editor: Ed Ellis 
Headlines & Layout: Tim Burke, Features Editor: Dave Lammers 
Steve Mayer, Jack o'Neil, Marty 
Sports Editor: Terry Shields Miller. 
SMC Editor: Jeanne Sweeney Controller of the Night: Rick Smith 


:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;;;;;;;;:;:;:;1~1(

-:·: L EMMET BALLANTINE 
..., 
~;;~

l\~ 
"Stop ;~he War Machine" ~·=· 
That's what the banner, floating from the fourth floor of Badin, said Saturday morning as the Army invaded the du lac campus. And the cadet talking to me outside the bookstore was kind of upset by it. 
"You know, something like that really hurts us," he said. "Stuff like 'Render West PoiDt-less,' and 'Bomb Armv.'that kind of thing is funny but this really hits hard. 
''I'll tell you som~thing else," he continued, "Something a lot of you guys probably don't know. About seventy-five per cent of the cadets at the Point are against the war, but our hands are tied and we can't do anything about it so we let you guys say it for us 
''And then when we see something like that it really hurts." 
He didn't say a whole lot more after that. He just finished drinking his cider and walked over to a group of his friends. 
He wasn't smiling 

To most members.of today's Movement the military has ceased to be a group of individuals striving towards a collective end. Instead, it has become a machine and each person is a cog willfully and maliciously bent on the destruction of the North Vietnamese Communists. Granted, there are some inhuman aspects of the military-with Curtis Le May serving as a shining example-but to place all military personnel in that category is grossly unfair. Let's face it, the Movement itself is not as pure as the new fallen snow, though some self-righteous leftists would have you believe so. It seems rather ironic that those who scream loudest at the deb umanization of today's society are the quickest to classify the military as "machines." 
Nor is it just the military who have been branded. Perhaps the most tragic result of this war is that it has stopped the American People from looking on one another as individuals. Instead, we immediately stick a label on anyone holding a view on the war opposite to ours, a.nd write them off as lost. You think I'm kidding? Ask Martha Mitchell what she thinks of William Fullbright. Ask John Wayne what he thinks of Jane Fonda. Get Gore Vidal's opinion of Bill Buckley. 
Getting right down to it, people are really neat. You can't throw them together and pin labels on them-it destroys their 
uniqueness. Arthur Ashe isn't a "dirty nigger," he's~ damn good tennis player and don't let anyone tell you differently. Brendan Behan was more than a "drunken Irishman," he was also the best playright to come from the Ould Sod since George Benard Shaw. And bringing it doser to home, your maid is more than a "dumb polack." She's probably the only person around who will put up with the shit she gets in return for the "generous paycheck" the University claims as fair wages. 
1 would suggest if we are to get along with each other in this world, and here on this campus, we're gonna have to remain a bit more open, we're gonna have to remain a lot more open, we're gonna have to be able to laugh at ourselves and really laugh hard, and, yeah, we're gonna have to do a lot more smil~ng. Let's face it, if seventy-five per cent of the officers graduatmg from West Point are against it, this war can't last forever. 
The opinions expressed in the , oditorials, news analyses, and columns· of the Observer do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre fi>ame, their administrations, 1iaculties, or student bodies. 
Friday, October 16, 1970 THE OBSERUER. Page 5 
Saturday: Gary Burton Quartet !fnd JAZZ 
-
Gary Burton has captured the imagina­1968 he was "J azzman of the Year" (thetions (and secured the following) of 

competition was pretty good: Miles Davis college-age listeners like no jazz perform­
finished second, Duke Ellington third); he er since Dave Brubeck in the Fifties. Age had three albums in the top twenty; the has something to do with his appeal (he's combo jumped to second place (close
27) and so does his personal style behind Davis); and Burton won the "Best (running to buckskins and shaggy locks); Vibist" award. but mainly it's his music. The critical acclaim has continued (see The music the Burton quartet puts inserts), successful album has followed down is jazz through and through, but it successful album ("Duster," "In Con­'Lord, I'm a walkin' down the line' borrows freely from rock and blues and cert," "Lofty Fake Anagram," "A T. G. Knoles. country music. Burton acknowledges this. Genuine Tong Funeral," "Country

Once he was quoted as saying, "Rock is a Roads," and his latest, "Good Vibes").healthy influence on jazz. I dig rock 
Concerts
Meanwhile, his audience has grown by

myself, and I think my experience with it leaps and bounds, and Burton has has helped me." On another occasion he There probably are two problems. One 
traveled widely to meet it: to the Village I was talking to a friend of mine the

said, "We use things we like. With a guitar Gate, The Village Vanguard, The Scene; is, almost no one anywhere liked Grand
other night (remarkable, considering my
in the group, it's natural for us to use to jazz festivals at Newport, Monterey, friends). He was telling me (even more Fund the way they were a year ago, no matter what a potential fan's musical
some rock, but actually it's country Berlin; to Fillmore East and Carnegie remarkable, considering me, that he
things, not rock. Rock is very country­persuasion might be. For that reason·, the
Hall; and to campuses from UCLA to would talk to me) that he and "every­
influenced, and I was much more exposed band was not a good example of what
NYU. body else" was unhappy with the 
to country music at the start." And now size the loathsome drug crowd would be
to Notre Dame (or, rather, concerts given around here. "I don't 
So what it comes to is that Gary who would come to such a concert and
St. Mary's): Saturday night, 8:00 p.m., know why", he added, "Those idiots Burton and his group defy categorization. not less importantly bring money for the
O'Laughlin. (presumably the Student Union Social 
Certainly that in itself has something to Go. Student Union. Three Dog Night also
Commission) can't bring groups the 
do with his rapport with young 
isn't a good example, because the people
students want to see." 
audiences. Burton thinks that "one here who are into rock seem to be really
Rumors were rampant earlier this year. 
reason why jazz isn't more popular with affiliated ·with a small segment of rock.
We were going to have Poco and John B. 
young audiences is that it's hard for them Even though your father or Spiro Agnew 
Sebastian together, Procol Harum, and -. ­to identify with 40ish musicians in even the Jefferson Airplane for home­probably couldn't tell the difference, tailored suits. They could loosen up coming, doing two concerts: one for the there is a difference between the Stooges some--not dress up and all that, but 
dance at the ACC, the other on the Main and Cream. And even if the Social relate more." Burton is loose; he is 
Quad, free, during the Army game. That commission drew that fine a line, those eclectic; he relates. 
last one was just too perfect a story to ·people I mentioned would draw a finer rise and popularity
His to fame has actually happen, but everyone could just one. It's got to be exactly the right
been meteoric. The Anderson, Indiana see the dope crowd out on the Main groups, not an approximation.
native had his professional start in Quad, really into their collective hippie So there really hasn't been a good test Nashville recording studios. In I 962 he 
thing, while the drunken alumni and of whether the music that my friend's 
joined George Shearing's group, and from visiting cadets stood aghast. "everybody" likes is what everybody1964 to 1966 he toured with Stan Getz. 
The STUSOC-has a good argument likes. And, even if they did, I don't know his group in
Burton formed own April against bringing loud, "Progressive rock," if the drug crowd would show up at the 
1967 (guitarist Larry Coryell was one of sorts of groups. On one hand, people go cold bright ACC at 8pm on a Saturdaythe quartet's original members). That to see Smokey Robinson, Sergio Mendez night with slacks and sweaters and a date very year Burton shot from nowhere to and B,S,&T in great numbers. Therefore, in enough numbers to make lots of 24th place in DownBeat's "Jazzman of the students seem fo like them. On the money for STUSOC. And they under­the Year" poll; his first album placed ''The hallelujahs for the Gary Burton other hand, Grand Funk, who was· standably have to worry about that. Then 26th in the "Record of the Year" Quartet at the Berlin Jazz Festival were brought for homecoming as a heavy band,·' again, it maybe doesn't matter who is category; his group was eleventh in the unlike any ovation I had ever seen for any was very unpopular both with the people brought, if people automatically go to "Best Combo" division; and Burton jazz group." 
who saw them and those who stayed any concert that is held because it seems himself ranked second among vibists. In --Leonard Feather, Los Angeles Times 
away. to them there is n~thing ~l~e to do. 
Dave Lammers 


Volunteers 
The question of the volunteer army appears to some cases, heroic personal resistance to evil. be almost a dead issue on the campus. Liberals and This meager preservation of personal responsi­
So_~\:><.v '">,O, lQ 7-o I 

conservatives alike agree that a mercenary army bility would surely be lost in a mercenary army t.:O.cJ·,to-r . &.ree.-t~."\' . KUVV\e. ·,s a. '\a."". 1\\ I would be a more efficient military structure, and where collective "esprit de corps" overcomes the would contribute to "the domestic tranquility." personal conscience of the draftee. 
\'.:> vJd\ . 0"' -t..o -\:e.\\ 'i~ 6\ d. ~ocl

I Given the present mood of our legislature, and This psychic collectivism, where men define -t "'-lVI«., 0-...ok lrt<~.\'\'<'Med. Sc.e V\~ ·. KCJv>oe 1 \\---e_ the lack of objection among "intellectuals", it their lives and goals in terms of collective military would seem likely that when (and if) the symbols, would also increase the chance of a
Co\\e<\•o.li""'e. \ov-oor,~t_,J:,O">-\'i\ \,oVIies. 

Southeast Asian war is ended, the volunteer army military takeover in a time of domestic crisis or 
Yav;s wd.~ OK \;or c,e.\~ <::.u\~,C: i~c~ ">uvv;va_\ will become a realitv. disaster. The present civilian control over the army t 'me . \JVIdev-:,t dMc) 7 ISvt "'OW, ~~ w\-. 0 \e. t\., 1'.., Yet there are four evident arguments that merit includes those men presently within the army that v.Jl.<, Svclt\e,....\,1 D~~d.YI.I'"l.ed. f\Ylc'J we.. <x1.t dew"' 'j the rejection of the volunteer army. First, young consider themselves only temporary men of arms, 
men that decide to join a professional army as and cannot wait to re-enter civilian life. It is worth 
CMd \oj~ d c."'-•c.K.~ c),l-..,.e.v. We.. We..>Oe. '\iV<&¥1 

career soldiers will ultimately evolve into men that noting that the U.S. has not yet faced a major 
I"OOVYI<;, -\V.~.-.) t\oov-. ~vt \....i<~\-eVI \::\.-.\-, 'we.' 

define their "self-image" in terms of the military breakdown of civilian power like Latin American to w"'-ic.\.-.. I "'e.\~ {<, aloovt (.Q ~v-\<, ~d mentality. There is, presently, a certain tension in civilian leaders, when a unified military could
I 

the army between the officers that are completely justify takeover by pointing to civilian
\o:lo'IS • T\.,.e. -s·.t va±,·~ ~""'d..<, *--e."' d.:\: IV\: i!Nid ""\ooo.~ . ..._ . , dedicated to the army and to the military style of ineffectualness. 
._ ' '"' ov~v-. 1\V\ ac.ode,....t. j >'lot a. \1\olok life, and the men that are drafted into the army Thirdly, it seems naive to presume that middle 

e..'l'\"'•r\I"""._V\'"\ . 1\--,e. 1:::.\-,;"''\ ;"> -'\:\,"a..t \\. Wo,..l<e..J. 

and retain a certain remnant of· civilian morality. or upper class youths would volunteer. &;v-1., ~ OV\e. '-'•W ~~ \~o-ov <!..VIcl '\"'/"' 
There are, presumably, men that are drafted into Professional military life would largely appeal to the armed services that retain their individual sense -those poor, uneducated youth that can escape a 
o' 
OVI ~~ o\::'1...-e.v 1 'V\o ""'O~S (1,-,c\ VIO b<!.YV"\(.a_d<:':o 

of conscience and morality, and resist, to a degree, life -of degrading poverty to a career that carries a T\-.e. w\,ok t\..i"''\ W.l.<, lfla'tvV'aJ I ~.,..;i!Niclly <>Md the total emphasis on obediance and respect for an certain status and respect within American society, officers authority. as a career soldier. And it is precisely this type of
'{e.-a\./'>.\:. ti""'e.c, I wa.c, loov-c:c) ~a"'-e.\\ .,.a.t 

How much more likely would a My Lai young man that is most susceptable to militaristic*'""'"-'> W'l.. \'\~~e.d ,,;"">~Ke. \"' \:'\.,e. 'vi_~\\. massacre be if the commanding officer knew that propaganda. all the men in his unit placed obediance to military Finally, the draft presents a sobering crisis in
L'v '"' ') w a.s w.~ c."'-"\::\,<?. SdM-1€. • r\ "XX "<\.~ 

authority above their own personal conscience? the: lives of college students that ma,ny times forces 
11

\j,.,e.'l ""xve~ God~v-e.y! '>vc.h \.;,.,..,..oV'oi(;i:y :· Presently, career officers are at least privately a young man to consider questions that are thrust "Bvt-·,t a. 'I'~ .. ·t' , vve. va. L"''( , Y>O '>e.x ~ · aware that their world-view is not shMed, and may upon him by the compulsacy call to arms. The
.L I­
J .. ,o QV'"~\'!.~~ 

even· be resisted by, the draftees that have formed~ anguished soul-searching that many dJaftable0VIl'l ~O'VIe.c,-t \vie.Md\i,.,e.sc,. \V.e.. \<,-.,c) Wlost their consciences and attitudes in a civilian·· youth have suffered through is, in my opinion, one 
"F~I>\e d.-1:: Notv-e. l)~._ a,t, st. Ma.vy '<;. context. of those crises that measures the worth of a man. h<1ve. W\,"c,c,ed. \Ave. I-. to WI;<;.<;, • :Lt ;.,__ .I.t 1'c,, This tension between draftees and career The decision to kill or to resist killing in Vietnam officers has resulted in an underground movement is an example of moral fibre that we can point to Co Y1<.evt t '""'e. o\\ {c. ia. I ~ <-1:--e..s ave.,•t <e. <~.I , within the armed services that would be absent in with enormous pride in an era that abounds with 
a mercenary army. Underground newspapers, · moral paralysis. 
VV\c\ev-sE:.aM6 I \\,e. ('-'\leu.,'n, vn..c.,. '/ov• \,..l~i\. 

resistance to immoral commands, the rebellion An efficient professional army can be bought.
((~~ 

against military justice, and discontent with the Whether that buying would contribute to the WeeeeeD, I think we kind of knew that things weren•t quite the 1811le present war, are all phenomena that make the psychic and moral erosion of oul" nation is an issue armed services an arena of questioning and, in that is of paramount import.
in Rome, as they are here in good ol' South Bend, but... 
~-~----~ 

Page 6 
7lf£, ()~~'--=================================F=ri=da=y=.~==to=~=r=1=6=,1=97~0 


Counseling Center moves to Alumni 
by John Powers Schumacher, a recent ND graduate. The had come in early, he could have avoided ministry." Students who seek counselin 
Less than two weeks ago the Coun-field office and the Counseling Center is this probif:m. To help, you have to "be usually make nine or ten appointments seling Center broke away from its office . under the direction of Dr. Sheridan P. known as oeoole." once a week, but this is voluntary and a in the administration building to open a McCabe, who holds a Ph.d. in counseling To help as much as possible, the student may discontinue it if he wishes. 
field office on the first floor of Alumni psychology from Catholic University, as Counseling Center is involved in three All records of counseling are confidential. Hall. The action was nothing dramatic, well as degrees in theology and philo-areas of counseling. Group ~ounseling One goal of counseling is to establish a but another example of the Counseling sophy. Since his arrival from the Univer-takes plac1!, while individual counseling friendship with the counselor in order to Center's committment to serve the sity of Portland, Oregon in 1967, Dr.· includes aptitude and interest testing better a person• s chances of actualizin 
McCabe has expanded the counseling which IS done most of the time. ihe himself, and facing up to life effectively program here to "fulfill a need of center also helps in consulting, particu-and creatively. This is one way o 0bserver insight working out problems of a non-psychia-larly hall orientation for freshmen, and upgrading student life. tric nature." has helped Farley Hall with th•eir Students of all four years use the 
1-----------------Of the 315 students who c:ame to the orientation program. The third area is in services of the Center, but very few students of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's center in 1968-69, some learned of it "outreach" activities. The Environmental freshmen are involved because of the community. through friends and dropped in out of Counseling Program has counseling counselling program of the Freshman 
I was surprised to find the field office curiosity,~ while others wen: urged to trainees engaged in ordinary student life, Year Office. Not surprisingly, many quite void of everything but an informal make an appointment. The staff seeks to living in the halls and meeting students Sophomores come in for counselling with atmosphere. There were some easychairs, help on a basis of friendship and around the campus. "major'' problems. They are without the a broken cigarette machine, an old floor naturalness, and Dr. McCabe sees friend-Individual counseling is not intenile. help of a department advisor or a 
amp and desk, and Cassell Lawson was ship as an effective way to help a person Most students have slight personal prob­Freshman Y car dean. threading the tape of soul music. We deal with himself and make decisions. "If !ems which can be effectively grdppled The peak times for counselling are talked for nearly an hour and a half until students had friends, if professors were with and brought to a climax, or dealt December, January, and February, but two juniors dropped in, and I left when it more aware, the students who corrw in with reasonably. Topics such as change of the Counseling Center is open all year, was time for some "hard" counseling to for counseling would be sent by friends," major, breaking up with a girl, inability to and it seeks to make itself available to all be done. said Dr. McCabe. ""Ijlere are more people concentrah: on studies or a "bad trip" are students. One way is through the field 
The field office is open five days a coming in here who don't talk to frequently mentioned. In regards to office that has been opened in Alumni 
week and staffed by two professional anybody." If a guy comes in and asks for counseling and religious beliefs, Dr. Hall. It seeks face to face contact with 
ounseling trainees, Cassell Lawson, an help. it usually means: "He hurts." For McCabe admits, "We're no substitutes for students, as well as 
cooperation from ndiana U. graduate formerly with the example, a student comes in the week priests. Nor they for us. There is a resident assistants in the halls. who can 
~an Lea e~SooiliBmd andLar fi exmw"thth~_F_'s_._~h~e~~p~n~·m~a~r~y~n~f~~~d~fu~r~a~t~o~p~n~o~tc~b~c~a~m~p~~========~~~~~~~~ 
PICK UP A CO~LlPLE: 

6 -P AKS OR !\IIORE FOR THE WEE:KENI> 
We g!1 carried away when you come around•.. and we I~ove it! 




Budweiser. 
is the only beer in Amt~rica that's Beech~ood Aged. 

(But you know that.) 
ANHEUSER·BUSCH, INC. o ST. LOUIS o NEWARK o LOS ANGELES o TAMPA o HOUSTON • COLUMBUS o JACKSONVILLE 

THE NEW 

c:ORBY'S 
M.ISSOURI s:MOKER 
COLOR TV 
POOL TABLE 
FREE SNACKS 
8£jER SPECIAl. 
(AFTER N.D. TOUCHDOWNS) 
-~--------­
~:::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::!:!::::::::~~~:~:~:~:-:~:·;·:::::::::::~ 
I Michael's · I 




I. HAt~J{~~G;~:~~:~EN il 
~ sr::~: ~~~:~~~:-H::L;~s ~ 
tRAZOR CUTS-HAIR STRAIGHTENING' n 
:,;...··:·:-:·:•:·:·:·:::.::.·:·:·:~_ ~~ ~ . . . : •..··:.:.:·=·.......·=:=·:.=·:·:;:.::::::::::::;:;:;:;:::;::;:::::::::::::;:=:;:;:::::::::::;;;:::::::::::::::::;::::::::ffi: 
..Doc" 
with the ~'\low Generation 
Brass featuring the 
Brothers and tho Sisters 

ACC Fri. Oct. 2~1 8· 
RESERVED SIEATS 
Upper  Arena  $2.50  
Lower  Arenai  $5.00  
Chair  Platform  
Seats  
Loge  $7 .5()  

Sp11nsored by the Big Brothers of St. Joseph County 
Tickets On Sale-A.C.C. & Friday, gctober 16, 1970 



Page 7 

Irish should impress on national TV 
by Terry Shields He was operated on earlier m tne coach Ara Parseghian wasn't gam~. season.
Observer Sports Editor exactly sure whether he would Missouri's secondary is not ·-·--·--···~-----··--·l 
Notre Dame will not be let All-American candidate the stingiest in the country and
This is a big game. There is no without its casualites also. ND 
Clarence Ellis try to stay with the loss of Weisenfels certainlydoubt in many Notre Dame fans 
minds about the quality of this has lost the services of All­Gray or switch to a different doesn't help matters. What this year's Irish but now the time has American guard Larry DiNardo defense in order to stop the means, of course, is good news come to prove to the entire for at least this game and speedster from connecting with for Notre Dame rooters. The country just who deserves the possibly a few weeks longer. Farmer on a bomb. good news c0mes in the form of title of Number One. This is the DiNardo has a severe knee As far as a rushing offense a combo known as Theismann to 
NCAA Game of the Week on sprain. The co-captain's running goes, Mizzou will not be com­Gatewood. national TV. mate on the left side of the line pletely inept. The imposing Joe Theismann won't get the What had shaped up as a will also be watching rather than figure of fullback James Harri­pre-game build-up that Archie battle of titans earlier in the playing. This is tackle Mike son could spell trouble for the What's-his-name received against ·ts Martin, out with an ankle injury. Irish. Harrison, a 235 pounder Alabama but that doesn't mean 
season has now changed l So, forgetting about the 
image. Missouri has lost the from San Antonio, is quite a he can't impress the football greatest running back in its people who won't play and brute and he was very impressive fans across the country. Possibly history in Joe Moore. Moore concentrating on the people who in Missouri's television triumph Tom Gatewood will receive pulled up with a separated will, one sees that this game over Minnesota. some of the recognition that is 
could possibly turn into an aerial Mauser should take over

shoulder in the Nebraska game Bill due the leading pass receiver in last Saturday and he is out for circus. Without Moore, 01' for Moore. He is a dependable the NCAA. the duration of the season. Mizzou will probably go to Mike runner but he isn't the potential The problem in the line will Mel Gray, 9.3 speed Moore is not the only casualty in Farmer, the quarterback, for game breaker that Moore was. hoped to be solved with John what may be their only appear­
yardage. Although Farmer is

the Tiger lineup. Missouri's defense is a six man Kondrk (tackle) and Jim Hum­ance on national tube. The Rocky Wallace, an outstand-admittedly no Heisman candi­front with two linebackers and bert (guard). Denny Allan will Notre Dame defense will provedate, he can put the ball out in
ing defensive tackle, will also be three deep men. John Brown, a return to the lineup at his to be tougher than the Tiger on the sidelines for this impor-the reach of the top Tiger 220 pound end, and Adam Vital, halfback slot. on basis of
defenders and, the
receiver Mel Gray. Gray, who is a a 203 pound guard, are the

tant encounter. Co-captain and Look for a hard hitting this, it should be ND by a couple
d f · b k N' W · f 1 9.3 sprinter, has proven trouble mainstays in the line. Vital was contest with Missouri passing a touchdowns over Ol' Mizzou in
~ enslve ac_ . IP eJsen_ e s for more than one cornerback 
the Big Eight's lineman of the little more than is their custom.
will also be m1ssmg game actwn. th t h t · d t h' I · h the first meeting ever o~ these 
a as ne o cover 1m. ns week in last Saturday's Nebraska The Irish will be out to shine in traditional powers.
Terry SL ,·elds •·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·~·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;o;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·•·•·;o;o•·•······················
. n ......·.·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-··-··-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-···-·-·-···························· 
Season Statistics 
Scoring by Quarters TEAM SCORING 1 2 3 4 Total ND OPP

The Irish Eye 

Notre Dame 52 ·52 28 31 163 Total Points .................. 163 24 Opponents 0 17 7 0 24 Avg. per Game.............. 40.7 6.0 No. of TDs .................... 22 3 by Rushing ................ 15 2 by Passing ................ 7 0 TEAM STATISTICS by Returns ................ 0 1 
IRISH ITEM-There was an interesting article in last Sunday's Field Goals (Att-Made) 2-2 1-2 New York Times. William N. Wallace covered the NO-Army game Safeties ......... . ... . . . .. .. ...... 1 0
ND OPP and his treatment of the Fighting Irish made Sports Illustrated's Dan Total Offense .................. 2178 819 PAT-Kick ...................... 19-20 3-3 Jenkins look like a "subway alumni." PAT-Run........................ 1-1 0-0
Total Plays .................. 387 244 
PAT-Pass ...................... 1-1 0-0
Mr. Wallace referred to the U.S. Military Academy as a prep 3.4
Yards per Play............ 5.6 
school for Vietnam and du Lac won the title of a prep school for the 
Yards per Game .......... 544.5 205
National Football league. He made the Irish sound a little more 
INDIVIDUAL SCORING 
vicious than At til a the Hun's boys. The only neutral point he made 
Net Yards Rushing ....... . 1283 390 TDs Kick Play FG TP 
of the game was that it was scheduled too long ago and that it never 
Attempts ................... . 296 125 Gatewood .. 4 1-1(P) 26
should have been played. 
Hempel ...... 19-20 2-2 25
Yards per Rush ......... . 4.3 3.1 
Allan .......... 4 24 
After the worst week of predictions so far this season, the Yards per Game ......... . 321 97.5 Theismann 2 1-1(R) 14 schedule refuses to give any more easy picks. Last week the tally Barz .......... 2 12 read 21 of 30 and dropped the season percentage quite a bit. An Net Yards Passing ....... . 895 431 Parker ...... 2 12 attempted comeback will be made this weekend. Attempts ................... . 97 129 Dewan...... 2 12 
Notre Dame over Missouri: The Tigers are without Joe Moore and Completions ............... . 59 42 Gulyas ...... 2 12 the Irish will be missing co-captain -Larry DiNardo. MU should be Completion Pet.......... . . 608 .326 Minnix ...... 2 12 
Steenberge.. 1 6
"up" for this one, especially with the home field advantage. Don't 
Had Intercepted ......... . 3 9 
Creaney .... 1 6
spot more than two touchdowns. 
Touchdown Passes ... . 7 0
Tennessee over Alabama: Good God! Who would have ever 
Yards per Attempt ... . 9.2 3.3
believed that the Bear would have three losses by October 17. The INDIVIDUAL PUNTING
Y ds. per Completion 15.0 10.2
Vols are hard to beat in Knoxville. 
NO. YDS AVG LONG
Yards per Game ......... . 224 107.7
Michigan over Michigan St. :For the third weekend in a row Duffy 
Yoder ............ 13 481 37.0 48 
has a chance to pull a major upset. With one hundred thousand plus 
Roolf ............ 1 41 41.0 41
Punt Return Yards ......... . 50 161
in Ann Arbor it should be a big day for the Wolverines. State's 
No. of Returns ........... . 12 8
schedule lightens up after this week. 
RUSHING
Penn State over Syracuse: The Nittany Lions have a combination Avg. per Return ......... . 4.1 20.1 of things going for them. One, Syracuse is racked with dissension TC YDS AVG TD Long Two, the Mount Nits are improving with each week. Punts ............................... . 14 28 Allan 40 162 4.5 4 12 
Southern Cal over Washington: SC shouldn't lose another ball Yards Punting ........... . 522 999 Gulyas ........ 57 262 4.5 2 21 
Theismann .. 49 159 3.2 2 37
game until... , Avg. per Punt ............. . 37.2 35.6 
Barz ............ 41 184 4.4 1 14
Texas A&M over Texas Christian: One of these days the fighting Had Blocked ............... . 0 1 
Minnix ........ 37 178 4.8 1 33
Aggies will come through. This should be the day. A&M "big" over 
Cieszkowski 16 69 4.3 0 11
the Horned Frogs. 
Penalties .......................... 26 11 Parker ........ 14 125 8.9 2 63 San Diego State over San Jose State: The Aztecs are not playing a 
Yards Penalized .......... 233 107 Dewan ........ 13 70 5.3 2 15 
major college schedule yet but the teams they do play are certainly Steenberge .. 9 21 2.3 1 8 no competition. They'll remain in the Top Twenty all season. The Nightingale 3 6 2.0 0 3
Fumbles (Lost) ..............10(7) 14(6)
question is, will they go to a major bowl game and try a real Johnson ........ 3 16 5.3 0 6 opponent. Gallagher ...... 3 8 2.6 0 3
Total First Downs .......... 114 52
Northwestern over Wisconsin: Last week the Wilcats learned how Trapp ............ 1 16 16.0 0 16 
Rushing ........................ 69 23 Garner .......... 1 5 5.0 0 5
to win. This week they will stay in contention for the Big Ten title. 
Passing ........................ 41 23 T. Wright ...... 1 2 2.0 0 2
They play Ohio State on the 31st. Live it up Alex! Nebraska over Kansas: Somebody told me I haven't picked a Penalty.......................... 4 6 correct result all season for the Jayhawks. This should be number 
PASSING 
one. 
No Comp Int Yds TD Pet
UPSET OF THE WEEK 

INDIVIDUAL TOTAL OFFENSE Theismann 89 55 2 828 7 .618
Pittsburgh over West Virginia: Yeah, Yeah, I know whats going to 

LEADERS Steenberge 8 4 1 67 0 .500
happen, but if the Panthers luck our against a "down" Mountaineer team then I'll look like a genius. Besides Pitt will have their first two G Plays YDS AVG quarterbacks returning to action. Theismann ...... 4 138 987 7.1 RECEIVING 
In some of the other big collegiate contests this weekend it looks Allan .............. 3 40 162 4.5 PC YDS A VG TD Longlike Air Force Academy over Naval Academy, Army over Virginia, 
Barz ................ 4 41 184 4.4 Gatewood .... 36 556 15.4 4 39 
South Carolina over Maryland, Clemson over Wake Forest, Duke Gulyas ............ 4 57 262 4.5 Barz ............ 4 52 13.0 1 17 over North Carolina State, Tulane to edge North Carolina, Florida to Allan .......... 1 12 12.0 0 12 pass over Richmond, Florida State over Memphis State, Auburn over Trapp .......... 3 27 9.0 0 13 Georgia Tech, Georgia over Vanderbilt, LSU over Kentucky, Miami Creaney ...... 6 101 16.8 1 55 (Fla.) over Tampa, Colorado over Oklahoma, Kansas State over Iowa Results: Won 4, Lost 0, Tied 0 Tereschuk .. 1 28 28.0 0 28 State, Ohio State over Minnesota, Purdue over Iowa, Indiana over N.D. 35, Northwestern 14 (50,409) C Parker :....... 3 34 11.3 0 21 
Minnix ........ 1 40 40.0 1 , 40 
Illinois, SMU over Rice, UCLA over California, Stanford over N.D. 48, Purdue 0 (59,075) C 
Yoder .......... 1 15 15.0 0 15
Washington State. 
N.D. 29, Michigan State 0 (76,103) C Gulyas ........ 2 21 10.5 0 14 Last Week 21 of 3 0 Season Percentage . 7 57 N.D. 51, Army 10 (59,075) C Cieszkowski 1 9 9.0 0 9 
-Show Times­
1:45 3:45 5:45 
7:45 and 9:45 




·move 
it's pure Gould 
Starring ELIOT GOULD 
Paramount Pictures Presents A Howard W. Koch -Alan Jay Lerner Production Starring 
Barbra Streisand 
Yves Montand 


On A Clear[)af#'Cai!Seefotever 
FOLKNICHT 
8:3U -11:30 
Friday night 
Lou MacKenzie Beth Griffith Paul Guernsey Frank Liebner Jim Moran Ron Albright 

SMC COFFEEHOUSE 



!New !5enators, speak out 
(Continued from page 1) 
more than on the system. "With 
a little revison the Senate can be 
a useful body if the people are 
willing to work. It all depends 
on people." 
Dillon Hall's new Senator, Robert A. Bradtke, said he fav­ors the new constitution and the abolition of the Senate. He con­tended that he is "not interestf:d in being a Senator as it has been structured since I've been here." 
Senator Bradtke doesn't be­
lieve that the attitude about the 
Senate can be changed and that 
"It is going to be a sandbox no 
matter what we do." Bradtke 
indicated that the light voter turnout in some halls shows that people don't care whether the Senate is retained or not. 
Bruce Keunnan is. definitely opposed to President Krashna's new constitHtion. The Senator from Grace C Tower doesn't think that the Senate is as effect­ive as it should be but points out that he believes that the Hall Presidents have too little time to spend on Senate affa.irs and that 
the proposed council is not representative. Senator Keunnan favors the establishment of a permanent Senate committee on cons ti tutiona! revison. Keunnan feels that "the main function of the Senate is_control 

Students aid others at cen_ter 
(Continued from Page.,.6) include academic courses to help 
send pe~ple who need h·~lp. The field office is a place where a counsellor can encounter a student in the natural environ­ment of his dormitory life, and talk with him about his problem, whether it is a roomate, drugs, or race relations. 
Another counseling area is consulting, particularly to adivse halls in planning Freshman orientation. Outreach activities 


Sun. at 1:00 WNDU Channel 16 Big Brother Film "A Friend for Joey" 
the Sea -GUlli by .lnton Chekht,v 
Washington Hall Oct. Hi, 17, 22, 23, 24-at 8:30 PM and Oct. 18 at 2:30 PM 
Tickets $1.50 Information 284-·4176 
in aiding the Center's training program, as well as a training program for personnel in the Model Cities program of South Bend, and pains for a project at Marion High School. The Coun­seling Center also refers people to special counseling, such as draft counseling. In this area, a person needs more than informa­tion. 
The Counseling Center was begun in 1967 as a training facility_ for students in educa­tiona! and psychological counsel­ing. Starting with Dr. McCabe, Rev. Joseph Simons, and two graduate students, there are now three professionals on the staff, including Father Dan Boland and Dr. Susan Singer, who is part-time. There are seven grad­uate students who are teaching assistants with MA's and receive
. 
intensive supervision from the director. In 1966 the Depart­ment of Guidance and Testing gave way to the Counselling Cen­ter, and in 196 7 the Psychologic­al Services Center was created as a separate center to help those with serious emotional problems. 
of the finances of student gov­
ernment. It is important since 
it's the kids' money that people 
who '!re representative of the 
students have a say in how it's 
spent." Keunnan wants the Sen­
being submitted for Senate ap­
proval. 
When asked what he thought 
the Senate's chances are, Senator 
Keunnan replied that the Senate 
will be saved "without too much 
problem" 
The new constitution puts 

"too much· emphasis on hall presidents and makes the SLC too much a part of student government," thereby en fringing on the SLC, according to Frank McAleer of Flanner's B Tower. Senator McAleer favors retaining the Senate because he feels taht we "need a Senate around if for no other reason that just to work on the budget." McAleer 1 pointed out that in the example of Sophomore cars, the Senate did its job but that President 
Krashna didn't do his part. 


Student Union 
(Continued from page 1) 
at Stepan·· on December 4. Another concert is scheduled for November 13, but a group has not yet been booked. All the concerts will be informal. There will be no chairs. The audience will sit around the performer, so bring your blanket. • 
Pohl said that Student Union hopes to be able to alot academic credit for its members. Pohl feels that the experience gained by a student working for the union is as valuable as classroom instruction. He said that students give four to five hours a day working for Student Union and should be compen­sated in some manner. Since 


wages are out of the question
PAR1Y 

because they are financially Fisher Hall 
unfeasable, credit is the only Basement Lounge 
other solution. Pohl intends to carry this argument to the
TONIGHT 
administration.
All Girls Wekome 






