Crash kills 75-Storm toll I 00,000 
Story in Columns 1--3 Story in Columns S-6 

r.1 c; n d a y, N o v ~ ,,., be r 1 6 , 1 9 7 a 
Cyclone, waves assail Pakistan 
since floods and tidal wavesDACCA, East Pakstan (UPIJ killed 200,000 in northern ChinaGovernment officials said yester­in 1939.
day the cyclone and tidal wave The .:ountry of Pakistan isthat struck the southern coast of divided into two parts, its princi­East Pakistan last week deva­pal western section on ~ndia'sstated an area of possibly I0,000 western border and East Pakis­square miles and may have tan about the size of the state ofi-ilh.l more than I 00,000 per-· Arkansas m<'iC than 1,000 mikssons. 
across India to the east.
The confirmed death toll was Officials flying over the af­

· 11,163 they said and more than 2,000 persons were reported fected areas estimated that in missing in areas with which com­addition to the deaths at least munication has been reestab­
200,000 houses w':!re washedThis is the group team football picture of the Marshall tenm taken prior to the start of the regular away, thousands of boats andlished. But most of tlte areaseason. Most but uot all of the players were on the ill-fated plane. (UPI) 
other sessels were sm~:(, 500,000 der water they said. cattle died and all crops in the Among those missing were area were lost. 
affected is still isolated and un­

Marshall U grid squad 

the 14 members of the World The government has begun 
Bank team including several "maximum possible <'fforts to Americans who were on an in­render help to the affected spection tour of water and people" a communique said

perishes in tragic crash 

power development projects in "but the effort is inadequate." the Patuakhali coastal district. In the Noakhali district where HUNTINGTON W.VA. (UP]) wreckage which was scattered ita St:!te Univct":;ity football They were aboard a launch when communicatio:1s have been The charred bodies of 75 abont 200 feet in every direc­squad era. led into a mountain last seen in the delta area that restored the unicn council esti­
at Silver ['lume ·':olo. killing 14

persons 3H of them Marshal~ tion. '!"rees were ''hopyed down forms the coast on the Bay of mated unofficially that 15,000
players. the team's coach and

University football players were in lhc demcly wooded v;,!ley to Bengal. persons had been killed in the taken yesteday from the scat­~aow fire trucks and recovery t'>J athletic director. The confirmed death toll al­arra. Five thousand bodies were tered wreckage of a chartered vehicl~s in to the crash site. It tad been I 0 years since an ready makes the storm last week buried there in a mass grave
DC9 jetliner that crashed just accid-:·1t i•1volved a college foot­the worst disaster of its type Saturday and another 1,000 
s~ort of l:.Inding in what fedaal T:1e bodies all of them burned ball team. That occurred in lat·: have been collected for another
since 30,000 w·~re killed in a officials described as "one of the 
beyond recogJ,ition were placed October of 1960 when 16 men> wind storm in June, 1965 also in mass burial. 

greatest tragedks in aviation lli:·­in plastic bags and taken to a bers of the Cal Poly team from 
East Pakistan. Unofficial reports from Sari­
tory.'' temporary morgue set up in a 
San Luis Obisp0, Cali!. died in a The official estimates that the sal 50 miles south of Dacca said A 35 ma'l team of federal Nationa! Guard armory at the wreck at Toledo, Ohb that 
death toll might exceed I 00,000 more than 13,000 were killed 
investigators recovered an in Tri State Airport. claimed ~i total of 22 lives. 
would make it the w lrst disaster there. 
flight recorder and a badly dam­State Police Capt. J.D. Bais­
ageu tape of the co•.:kpit conver­den said 15 of the bodied were sation from the twid jet Sou· identified tentatively from per­t '!ern Airways plane which sonal effects such as rings. 
skimmed across two small hills Walter Rollins a mortician 

Union budget allotted 
:111d hll into a deep foggy Ap­who helped with the recovery palachian valley Saturday night said he believed "death was in­By l.Jave McCarthy He explained the rationale of it bring speakers to this campusstantan.:-ous to every one on thejust s'1·1rt of the Tri State Air­saying that among t'te duties of who would not come 
port. 1'h~! plane exploded and plane.'' An ammendment proposed by t'1e Senate :'should be po~mlar otherwise."
John Reed chairman of the Stay Senator Fred Giuffrida:1urned for nearly five hours control of the Student Union." The result of a roll call voteN~t innal Transportation Safety requiring the Academic"Jig•. ting up the sky" witnesses Don Mooney, an Off-Campus favored the ammendment and itBoard 'teaded the team of inves­Commission of the StudentS1id. 

Senator spoke against the was attached to a motion totigators who came to the scene. Union to seek t:1e consei' t of theChart ~red by Marshall Univer­ammendment saying it "could allot $37,000 to the Studentsity t'·e pla;1e was ending a 40 The flight recorder will tell Senate before inviting a speaker be a possible restriction on the
the investigators the air speed, who will cost more than $300 to Union, but that motion failed.
minute i'light from Kinston, N.C. 
open sp':!akers policy." He also
altitude and general operation of the University was attached to The ammendment was alsoC<!rryLlg 38 football players, five the plane before the crash. the motion to allot the Union noted, later, that the Student attached to a motion to allocatecoaches, one team trainer and Union had been created to
"The~e was some damge to it $3 5,000 during last night's $35,000, which is what themembers of a "booster club" handle such affairs as inviting Senate passed. 
including one newly elected but we expect a read out" Reed Senate meeting. 
speakers-duties that had, in the 
st~t~ legislator and six physi­said. The two hour meeting, Soon after the Student Union
past, been handled by the Senate
He: said the cockpit recorder chaired by Student Body Vice allocation was decided, acia•is. All perished along witl-J. 
and Student Government
bent <'.'1d twisted but still func­President Mark Winings in place number of Senators left thefuur crewmen and a baggagt: Steve Novak, an Off-Camous
l;andler. Th~ team had played tioning would provide "the last of Student Body President Dave room, leaving the body without_
Senator concurred with Mooney. 
Ec••;t Carolina earlier in the day · 30 mLJUtes of conversation Krashna, who is on a recruiting a quorum. The Senate was then 
He said, "Thr:: Academic
l.Jsing 17-14. betwe,~n the plane pilot and trip until Thursday, was devoted recessed. 
copilot." Commission was originated to
Federal officials said it would exclusively to considering the be "about a month" before they The plane was at the outer budget of the Student Union. could determine the cause of the markers of the airport's radar One spokesman for motions 
Cohen tells of drugs
mysterious crash the nation's screen when it crashed Reed to allocate $43,000 and worst tli..is year and the second in said. The pilot reported no mal­$40,000, figures higher than that 

six weeks involving a college function but witnesses in the recommended by the Finance By Milt Jones Mexico when he was served the silocybin mushroom whiCh is
football team. area said the craft appreared to committee said, "Its a good Citing many facts from 
known today to be the source ofThe sky was overcast with be in trouble immediately before chance to show top priority to actual living experience, Dr. 
this drug. All Leary's students in
light rain, smoke and fog-what the fiery crash. the entire student body at the Allen Cohen exposed many his psychology class at Harvardpi10ts called a "ragged ceil­Reed who called the cn:sh University of Notre Dame." insights into what he termed the were offered the opportunity toing"-but the control tower said "one of the greatest tragedies b Another spokesman said, the "polarized" drug scene in a turn on to LSD. This led t::>
tilere was "no indication of trou­aviation hLtory" said he ex­Student Union programs were speech at the Library ble" as the plane headl:d for a pressed the sorrows of the fede­somet ling "the off-campus Auditorium Sunday night. He trouble, and a problem arose 
with the law enforcement
landing. It crashed one and one ral government and President student can take advantage of." talked very informally about his 
officers of Massachusetts. Thathalf miles short of the runway. Nixon. "We will do out utmost Both motions failed. experiences with Drs. Tirliothy summer, Leary founded aA steady drizzle co<•tinued a~ to find out actually what hap­When the Senate began to Leary and Richard Albert, both community in Mexico to work
state police, firemen and Nation­pened" he said. consider the Finance Committee at Harvard and in Mexico. 
on the LSD question. They were
al Guardsmen worked for at-out Only six weeks ago on Oct. recommendation of $37,000 According to Dr. Cohen, 2 ll. plane carrying half the Wic)l-Giuffrida introduced his rider.
11 hours combing through the Leary "discovered" LSD in (Continued on Page 6) 
~Pa~ge~2~---------------------~______THE_O~ 



Appeals Boardfillsopenings 
Student Government Judicial Co-ordinator Rich Urda said yes­terday that as a result of inter­views conducted last Thursday by himself, Student Bodv Presirlent Dave Krashna. and Dean of Stu­dents Fr. James Riehle, nine of twelve spots on the Appeals Board had been filled from the thirty applicants. 

Urda also said that the other three vacancies would be filled from among four applicants who were unable to make the Thurs­day interview. If for some reason the vacancies cannot be filled, 

CHICAGO 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500 • ZIP: 60611 
Sales tax where app•licable 
Urda said that he will open the 
field  for  further  applications  
from  the  student  body  as  a  
whole.  

The tripartite Appeals board 
:1f the new system was chosen oy the Student Life Council at its last meeting. The general appeals 
board will be the last step in setting up the new structur~s necessary for the system set up by the Burtchaell Code. This code was drawn up early last summer by University Provost Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. The new code will go into effect as soon as it is approved by the University Board of Trustees at its meeting in December. Speedy approval is expected. 
After the three openings are filled, Urda said he will .:or.cen­trate on explaining the new 

Canadian kidnappers evade Quebec police 
MONTREAL (UP!) The Quebec Liberation Front taunt­ingly described yesterday how the three most wanted men in Cana­da hid for hours in an apartment full of police-then escaped and stole the searchers guns on their way out. 
. They were hidden behind a false wall in a closet, the FLO 
Pre-Law Society  Akron Uni·  
versity  School  of  Law,  Akron,  
Ohio  - Assistant  Professor  of  

Law Lawrence E. Pope is schedu· ling interviews for prospective stu· dents on Thursday, Nov. 19, 1970 -Signups at 101 O'Shaughnessy -Check at 205 Business Building for lqcation of interviews. 
Pre-Law Society University of Iowa School of Law -Associ· ate Professor of Law Robert J. Martineau is scheduling interviews for prospective students on Wed· nesday, November 18, 1970 -Signups at 101 O'Shaughnessy ­Check at 205 Business Building for location of interview. 

~..,....,....,....,....,..AF....,...,.._.......,...,....,....,....,....,....,.._.,.~ ~ liiii: 
~ I he Cultural Arts Commission's~ 
~ ~Iii: ~ 
~ Cinema '71 
~ ~ presents 
~ 
~ Surrellllsm Film Festtv•l 
~ 
~ Nov. 16, Monday-"Orpheus" ~ Nov. 17, Tuesday-"Beauty and the Beast" ~ Nov. 18, Wednesday-"Blood of a Poet" and 
1111r: 
"Un Chien Andalou" ~ Nov. 19, Thursday-"Exterminating Angel" ~ Nov. 20, Friday -"Last Year at Marienbad" 
~ 
~ ~Iii: Admission $I .00 each night; Cinema '7 I patrons free ~ in Engineering Aud. ~ C1nema '7 I patron cards available at the door. 
~ ~Iii: ~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ ~ ~ 
~Iii: ~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~Iii: 
~ ~ 

~................""""',...................................."""'"""'..111/ii. 
system to the Hall Judici,l) Board Cilainnen. This will be done bv meetings in the..halls 
specific;illy aimed at fne 'qoard members but •Jpen t6 itq stu­dents. ·;· .·.~\, 
Th.:: only problem 1-'i:c,la for­sees in the impleJT1:.:n,tation. of the new system b one 1ex(:Jected by Fr. Riehlr. Acconding to Urda, Riehle .expects mos•t·stu­dL nts to opL 1tor .trial by the Dean of Students as opposed to trial by the student board. 
Urda feels this view is "un­founded" and hbpes to conhni:e the students ofthis by the'ihfor­mal meetings in the various halls. He said that the fact that the trials are secret will act against the result Riehle anticipates. 
said, and deliberately left their 
fingeq•rints and other traces be­
hind s.J police would know they 
had escaped from unr,·~r their 
noses. They sarc::stically chided 
the police for "an excess of 
negligence" in leaving their 
guns in the apartment hut 
thanked them for the weapons. 
Police confir1.1ed the finger 
prints were found and would not 
comment on th,~ rest. But the 
provincial and city police were 
already quarrelling over whose 
men had been assigned to thr 
apartment. 
The outlawed FLO, w·!ich set 
off the kidnap crisis, sent the 
information in conimuniques to 
the newspapers, Jornal de Mon­
treal and Quebec Presse. 
The FLQ began its campaig!; 
six weeks ago 1\Ionday, when 
three gunmen kidnaped British 
Trade Commissioner James R. 
Cross and followed it up by 
kidnaping Quebec Labor Minis­
tcrPierre LaPorte. 
Laporte was strangled. The 
fate of Cross was unknown be.: 
he was presumed to be still aliv ~ 
and in FLQ hands. The FU'r 
sent pictures of him to loc::: 
newspapers a week ago. 
Need a thrill? 
~~ai~.the Sunday night Observer 




~************3i
*TRYING TO CONTAC~~ *THE PERSON HAVING* *A CAR ACCIDENT SAT.* 
#EVE. FOR INFO-CALL** 6013

~Jis.~~~*'fc~1 
f PHILLY FOR t t 'l-HANKSGIVIJ'1.1G'.I A
' :~ ' ' 284 4041 or ff 234-8234 j 

presented by student u11ion social commis-sion & ace 


This is the way it could have been around here this past weekend as the coldest weather of the season gripped most of the eastern half of the nation yesterday. Today's weather calls for mostly sunny skies and a little warmer. Tonight should be fair and not so cold. 

Cohen cites drug problems 
(Continued from Page 1) 
to try to find out what could be done with human conciousness. J\fln being evicted fronJ Mexico and three Caribbean countries, the community finally settled in Milbrook, New York on a rancl1 don;i1 ed rcn t-free for their use. 
During this interval, no emphasis was placed on the legal 

aspcds  of  the  situation.  The  
LSD  movement  took  a  turn  
toward  religion  :.. nd  

existentialism, said Dr. (\,11eJL The experiments in New ':"crk at this time were termed by Dr. ColH~n as an "era of understanding.'' He added that this can he also called the time of the most positive move toward consciousness. Dr. Cohen said he began to find problems in the drug culture. There was an ever-growing inconsistency among members, while "high," they were saints, full of brotherhood and understanding he said. However, when they were down, they would fight ·.>ver the simplest of practical r;hores added Dr. Cohen. This led him and others of the community to consider some 
non -chemica! alternatives to drugs. 
In determining non-chemical alternatives, Dr. Cohen states that one must consid'er the reasons people need chemicals to get high. He cites the fact of problems on various levels of life 
such as physical, sensory, rmotioual, social, political and other areas as reasons to escape. lie stated that non-chemical alternatives exist on all these L·vels. Athletics, gaining control over the body is a non-chemical alternative to the physical 
saturday, nov. 21 in the ace 
8:30pm 
tickets $5, $4, $2 on sale at student union ticket office and dining halls 
ticket sales start tuesday 
problem. Another alternative is training in dance to overcome senso1·y problems. He then defined consciousness as "that 
which is essentially you and can never be taken away." He states that drugs defeat this awareness because they "lull to sleep the awakening that is, or should be occuring withi<l you." 
When talking on the marijuana issue, Dr. Cohen said that "the polarization of the matter annoyed him.'' He listed some early problems as the fact that marijuana is a generational, political and philosophical issue, that too many people don't know what they're talking about and the central scientific problem of not enough research into the drug. 
Dr. Cohen then talked of th•: rc:;ults of the experiments ir, L~xington, Ky. concerning IT'arijuana. These studies showed the drug THC to be t.he active ingredient of marijuana. They also showed that marijuana was not a narcotic, but that it was not completely harmle~:s either. Further research shov.ed that TH (' can accumulate in the system in the liver and other locations. These accumulations can caus~ numerous long-term effects. 
Some of things assr.>eiated with the long term effe.;ts of THC, according to Dr. Cohen, are "problems in concentrating, failing memory, failure in math ability, creeping paranoia which Ieads to over-cynadsm and distrust and fluctuations of self-esteem. The drug also causes pacificity, heightened suggestability and sensitivity, difficulty in conversation, a feeling of futility of life, and a personal denial of the idea that drugs can be harmful." 
TYPING 
Any material, any length, charts and diagrams. $.50/page. Will pick up and deliver. Call Connie Paden 289-0177 after 4 p.m. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Ob· server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 465 56. 



Monday, November 16,1970 Page 3
7HB OBSE/lf/ER. 



Functions of Service Commission explained 
By Greg Pudhorodsky ceives profits from advertise­range) is not discussed until after Commenting on the no ·nt the Service Commission is still ments which they solicit from the decision is made. an efficiently run operation.
and rapid growth of the Service When the Student Union was local merchants. The only ex­The Service Commission has Commission and the subsequent However, at this point, if it 
pense that the Commission has begun two new services this

initiated four years ago on the effect such a development had, expands much more its perform­University of Notre Dame cam­Browning concluded, "I feel that
in this endeavor are nominal fees academic year. The first is the ance would be hindered." that arise from distributions, establishment of a ticket co-op,
pus one of its earliest organiza­

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
advertisement, and the computa­located on the second. floor oftional procedures was to esta­

~HOMEWARD BOUND? f
tion of the student list. La Fortune. This enables the Commission. In the ensuing The Commission, besides con­student to purchase tickets for years the Service Commission ducting the European tour and any function which is to take Worldw1dt1 blish the Student Union Service 
t BOSTON-. .,""·'~ ~~~~~ + t
N 

has grown and developed from a this year's ski trip to Aspen, runs place on campus without the i NEW YORK--dttp~~ndon t trek to the Athletic and Convo­
body whose prime responsibi­the combination ticket and bus 'PITTSBURGH-­cation Center. The hope is to
lities were control of student trip to away games and the buses ~ LOS ANGELES-t
eventually place in that office a
organizations and the Student to O'Hare Airport prior to vaca­

Union's publication and press tion period. All of these produce Chicago tickct-a-tron which f SAN FRANCISCO--' would make available tickets to
facilities to one whose duties a reasonable profit for the SUSC t IF YOU WANT TO SPLIT t 
events in the Windy City.
encompass a wide and waried (Three-hundred and twenty dol­
Still in the developmental
range. lars in the case of the O'Hare 

f ":~'!:'v!e !!»/c~ ~!!a'! F~~ f
stage is a book co-op which

The Student Manual states trips). Present SUSC director, t
' OVER THE CONTINENTAL UNITED STATES AT 40% that it is the responsibility of Bob Browning, pointed out that would give students a centralized ' OFF ON A STAND-BY BASIS-NOW AT N.D. TRAVEL location to buy and sell used
every student organization to . three trips were originally BUREAU. ..... ....-.=-­
books.

register with the Service Com­scheduled for this year, North­r~-----,:y~~i;Pine ---,
Among the early responsibi­
mission and that such a list of western, M.S.U., and Missouri, 
lities of the SUSC was the Stu­
organizations is subject to review but that the latter was cancelled 

I Dance Company
dent Union Publications and the
by the Sean of Student Affairs. due to lack of response. 
Campus Press, which are located

There is a three dollar fee I 

: The Cultural Arts Commission's •• e Contemporary Arts Festival presents: • 
• EARTHLIGHT e
• 
You'll get a kick out of Pinto's smart looks and zippy 

• -from the fields of Woodstock to Stepan Cente1 • 
performance. It's priced and sized like the little imports, but 

• -continuing in the tradition ofHair
has more room inside. You'll get a kick out of Pinto's ease of service. It has lots of heavy-duty, extra-long-life parts. And a 

. :
75-HP Engine that's backed by 50 million owner-driven

PUT A LITTLE 
miles. You'll get a kick out of Pinto's gas mileage too. 

• Nov. 17,8:00 PM •
•
Averages over 25 MPG in simulated city/suburban driving. 

• Admission $1.50 •
Pinto's got a wider stance as well-so you won't be pushed around by the wind. Now you can have your economy andKICK IN YOUR LIFE enjoy it, too. 

•••••••.;~;·;~......: 
in the basement of La Fortune.charged in this procedure and The facilities are relatively ex­presently there are forty-six regi­tensive containing apparatus forstered organizations. 
0 bserver Insight 
large and small offset, ditto, andFurthermore, it is expected mimeograph.that the various clubs and organ­Presently the only incomeizations will keep the Commis­which the Student Union Publi­
sion informed on upcoming events so that a weekly calender of such events can be drawn up and posted in the halls for the students' information and thus help to prevent conflicts in scheduling. The on-campus mail service is  In order to prevent the duping of parents by sertain student concessions, the Service Com­mission exersises control over such functions. During the sum­mer letters are sent to parents advising them which concessions (fruits, donuts, etc.) are recog­ cat ions has is the sixteen thousand dollar revenue which they receive for justification work for The Observer, which in the past has nearly covered ex­penses. A problem will soon arise however as. The Observer  
controlled  by  the  Commission  nized  and  suggests the  parents  intends  to  purchase  its  own  
along with  the salaries for stu­ only do business with them.  equipment and thus do its own  
dents  handling  this  which  When  asked  how it is deter­ work  after the Christmas  vaca­ 
amounts  to  seven-hundred and  mined  who  will  receive  such  tion period.  
twenty  dollars  per  year.  The  recognition, Browning said that  It should be pointed out that  
reason  that the student body is  there is usually one bid for each  the facilities of the Campus press  
able to receive the ND-SMC tele­ service and that when this is not  are  available  to  all  students.  
phone directory without cost is  the case the ability to handle the  Though  the  costs  are  compara­ 
because of  a set-up the Service  service is the criteria for appro­ tive  to those of public printing  
Commission has arranged with a  val. He went  on to say that the  firms the advantages stem from  
Texas publication company. The  fee  the  Commission  collects  the fact that the work is done in  
company  prints  the  directories  from  these  individuals  (in  the  the  course  of  a  day  or  even  
at  their  own  expense  and  re- one  to  two  hundred  dollar  available on the same day.  

Philippine dancers scheduled 
try.
The Performing Arts Series of tive of three different cultures: 
Saint Mary's College will present string instruments from the The Bayanihan Philippine the Bayanihan Philippine Dance Spanish; Muslim brass gongs; ~nd Dance Company will be making Company, Wednesday, Novem­log drums and bamboo wind its second appearance at Saint 
ber 18, at 8:00p.m. in O'Laugh­instruments from the indigenous Mary's Wednesday night. Ticket~ mountain tribes. are $2.00 for students and $3.5'0
lin Auditorium. Since its formation in 1954, tor adults. For further informa-.
The Bayanihan Company por­the Bayanihan Dance Company tion or reservations contact: Pro­
trays the rich cultural heritage of has toured world-wide and re­gramming Office, Moreau Hall,
the Philippines through its mu~ic, songs, dances and cos­
ceived high acclaim for its artis-2844176. tumes. The dances and songs are all drawn from pre-historic tradi­tion and legends and present a wide variety of scenes from heroic battle dances to light­h~arted festivals. Each is as ex­acting in its authenticity as in its performance. The 27 Bayanihan dam:ers, whose name evokes an ancient custom of working together, take great pride in the precision of their movement. The I 2 musicians are highly skilled in the playing of instruments retlec-· 



• 
For understanding especially difficult material. 

• 
For reviewing what you've already learned. Or bringing back what you may have forgotten. 

• 
For gathering additional information for writing papers. Where can we help you right now? In almost any subject you're studying. Economics. History. Philosophy. Novels. Poetry. Short 


stories. Plays. From Beowulf to Salinger. From Aeschylus to Zarathustra. Over 1,000 works in all. 
Five new 
MONARCH 
NOTES 
ready now! 
Page 4 
711E OBSERUER 






THE OBSERVER 
GLEN S. CORSO, Editor-in·Ollef JOHN E. KNORR, Executive Edilor BRUCE RIECK, Business Manager NOTRE OAME, INDIANA
F.OUIDEO NOVEMBER ~. 1­
Coeducation 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's are on the verge of a momentous decision. It is one that will shape the academic character of the two institutions for many years to come. It may also serve to relieve some of the emptiness, loneliness and misery that is found at both schools. It will probably usher in a host of problems, none of which will be simple, or readily solvable. 
Co-education is fast becoming a reality_ Since the day the twf''\ schools began co-exchange classes they have embarked upon a path which slowly and inexorably has led them to this end. The time is past for a decision on the issue itself, the only query now is "what type?" 
We strongly believe that proper and true path for the two schools to follow would be to affect a merger. The result would be of illimitable advantage to both_ Each would gain the presence of members of the opposite sex in most of their classes rather than just a few_ More importantly the new institution created would be a truly great university, 
1 offering subjects running the full gamut from education to engineering. From a pragmatic point of view merger is the correct course. Much groundwork between the two schools has been done which will facilitate the action, including the merger of several departments_ The proximity of the schools, plus the momentum built up over the years will allow the program of co-operation to shift into high gear so as to bring about co-education as quickly as possible. 
The first steps must be taken and taken quickly. A single admissions policy for the two schools can be created and used for the class of 1975 or 1976_ Admittance could be thrown open to both sexes and the top two thousand or so applicants accepted. 
A girls' dormitory should be set up on the Notre Dame campus next year. It will eventually hold freshmen girls plus any present SL Mary's girls who are takihg the bulk of their courses at ND. 
Procedure can and should be set up for the mergers of all overlapping departments, with due care given to tenure and the like_ 
The decision in effect, seems to have been made already_ There is extensive cooperation between the schools. St. Mary's faculty has drawn up several plans for merger and the Trustees have taken an instrumental step in jointly commissioning consultants to recommend a future course of action. 
It is our hope that the consultants will recommend a merger,and that thetrustees of both institutions will decide in favor of such a move_ It is the right decision, probably the only logical choice that can be made_ We want the trustees to make it and to make it quickly. 

Observer Editorials are a reflec­tion of the majority opinion of  Managing Editor: Bill Carter Editorial Page Editor: T.C.  THE 3:00 CLUB  
the editorial board. The editorials  Treanor  
are not necessarily written exclus­ively by the Editorial Page Editor. Observer Editorial 13oard: Glenn Corso, Ed Ellis, T.C. Treanor, Dave Bach, Dave' Lam­mers, Bill Carter, Jim Graif, and  Features Editor: Dave Lam­mers Sports Editor: Terry Shields SMC News Editor: Jeanne Sweeney Associate Editors: Dave Stauf­ Night Editor: Don "Round Man" Ruane Headlines: Tim "Hollywood" Burke · Layout: " Layout: Myst "Hook 'em Horns" Abell Controller of the Night: Rick Smith  
John Knorr.  fer, Sue Bury  

Monday, November 16,1970 

Peripher~l division------""" 
What hove they done Chip? 
~-------T. C. Treanor 
We get, as the poet says, intimations of mortality all the time. Just 
the other day (last Saturday, to be more precise) a rather jarring one 
popped up; Chip IJouglas got married and went to Mexico. 
You remember Chip. He was the youngest of Fred MacMurray's 
three sons. He used to put his fingers in his mouth and drool and say 
cute things. And now, by God, he's getting married. 
His older two siblings had already announced their nuptuals in 
sufficiently dramatic fashion, and poor Fred has had to import new 
sons from other shows. It's not the same thing. It's not the same 
thing at all. We grew up with Chip. When he got in trouble with the 
teacher, we got in trouble with the teacher. When he was threatened 
by the bully, we were threatened. When he messed up a date, we 
messed up too. When he drooled, we drooled. 
The other brothers; they were okay. I mean, they could always take care of themsleves and stuff. But Chip -man, he was us. I mean, you never felt bad when you goofed up, because there was Chip on TV, goofing up too. 
And now he's married. Wow. 
Ev,en Fred MacMurray has abandoned his martyred widowhood in favor of the connubial bed. Now, all three original sons have taken vows. What is happining? My Three Sons has, in the vulgate, freaked out. 
It is most assuredly childhood's end. All the other familiar figures of the electronic babysitter are gone. The Three Stooges, God love them, are in semi-retirement. They haven't had a biggie since The Three Stooges Out West. Remember Abbot and Costello? Well, Costello is dead and Abbot is paying off the income tax he evaded over the last ten years. Abbot, one hears, is trying to break in a new act with Candy Candido, who is either a ventriloquist, an impressionist, or a variety of chewing gum. At last report, the team of Abbot and Candido was not making many waves. 
Mickey Mouse is dead; he has been dispatched into that great steamboat of the sky. His ghost makes periodic resurrections, and occasionally an imposter will pop up, but make no mistake about it, Micky Mouse is dead. 
Even Popeye has changed; no more the fearsome sailor back from the war, he now inhabits an insane asylem with Eugene the Jeep, Alice the Goon, The Sea Hag, and other perversions of the human spirit. 
Howdy Doody is dead, too, and besides, I hear that Clarabelle was an alcoholic. And the Beaver has passed from our shores, too, but he was later anyway. 
No, it was up to Chip to defend our childhood, and he blew it. I feel like somebody's uncle. Somebody should have talked him out of it. Fred, where were you? Cripes, Fred, he's younger than me! Do you know what I saw them doing on their honeymoon in Mexico? Kissing! And do you know what she was wearing? I shudder to think! A nightgown, Fred! A black nightgown! It's a good thing Bishop Pursley wasn't watching. 
And where were you, Fred? You were sitting home eating your Rice Krispies, you smug, self-satisfied cad. Oh, you're lucky his mother, rest her soul, isn't alive. Marriage. The Kid's just out of high school, Fred. Do you know what, Fred? There are thousands of kids here, Fred, with brothers just out ofhigh school. Do you know how that makes them feel. 
Shucks. I really feel terrible. All that's left is for Buz Sawyer's kid to becom~ a peace freak and start doing dope. 

letter 
Editor: 

With regard to the editorial, "Deal for the Students" appear­ing in last Friday's Observer, I would like to clear up my state­ments on the Mexican-American Society's budget and to further explain the Finance Committee's recommendation. The quotes used in the editorial were taken out of context and were ar­ranged in such a way as to give credence to the argument that the Mexican-American Society is financially incompetent. This, however, is not the case nor is it the impression that I attempted to present in the Senate last Wednesday night. 
MECHA presented a very good program including such things as cultural activities, re­cruitment, and a cleari1~g house program for the hundreds of thousands of Mexican-Americans throughout the Midwest. The Finance Committee believed that MECHA had been conserva­tive in their estimates of costs in such things as printing and pos­tage and because we recognized the value of their programs we sought to insure sufficient funds for expansion and implemen­tation. I cannot see how these facts can reasonably be stretched to indicate financial irresponsi­bility on the part of the Nfexican-American Society nor was this the feeling in the Senate when they voted in favor of the 
Finance Committee's recommen­dation. 
In addition the treatment of the Student Government Debt on the whole shows a lack of 
knowledge and research on be­half of The Obsaver and I would suggest that they get the facts before their next editorial on the subject. 
Denis Conroy 
The editorial in Friday's Observer was in no way intended to slam either the Afro-American Society or the Mexican Americans. What was intended was criticism of the reasons put forth by the proponents ofeach increase_ We wanted to show that the comments made by Mr. Controy were somewhat irresponsible in that it led to a false impression, despite his desire. -ed. 

THE OBSERVER
Mondav. November 16,1970 Page 5 

Dan Aernl 


The Appalachian Paradox-Part I 
This article is the first in a series ofthree articles focusing on the problems of Appalachia. We are not attempting to study Appalachia from a sociological, or governmental, or any other perspective. We hope to provide a few glimpses ofthe people who live there, the region itself, the assistance programs in operation in Appalachia, and how Appalachian problems relate to us here at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
One of the primary concerns of nineteen-seventy America ia its paradoxes. There is racism in a land where all men are supposed to be created equal. There is a government which wages a war in order to save an Asian nation. And in the midst of the American "affluent society," poverty exists. It i~ these paradoxes, primaJily, which our nation must confront and resolve, if it is to live up to the ideals upon which it was founded. 
The region of our country known as Appalachia is one of the foremost paradoxes. The Appalachian Mountains, from which Appalachia derives its name, provide some of the most useful and most desired natural resources, in their forest and their coal and petroleum deposits. Yet the Appalachian people do not share in the wealth which comes out of their mountains. They live in poverty as bleak as any known in America. 
If you take a drive through Appalachia, you will probably be only mildly surprised at the things you will see. You won't find many towns, certainly no gigantic cities, but . the conditions in which the people live probably won't shock you as much as you had expected. 
Towns you come across may remind you of small towns in your home state. Outside of the towns you will probably find a few old houses along the road and maybe a couple of small farms (very small--the valleys aren't too wide). Jlut the· "poverty" there will probably 'not startle you. 
There is a reason for this. The most affluent people of Appalachia, and the people who are most familiar with culture outside of their own small community are also the people who are able to live alongside the paved roads. 
But take a journey back into one of the valleys which lead up through the mountains, where the paved roads don't go, and you willmost likely find a completely different story. These valleys arc known as "hollers," and they exist throughout the Appalachians. The people who live in the holler probably live in much th·~ same way as their ancestors once did. Generally they are all from the same family. and it is even possible that they don't know the people in nearby hollers. This is the Appalachia which you can't see from the road. It is also, 
unfortunately, one of the very basic characteristics of Appalachia. 
Living in the hollers, the Appalachian people were sheltered from the development of the rest of American culture. Thus secluded (and, I might add, ignored by the rest of America), the Appalachian people continue to live as their ancestors did. In some communities, the men were employed in the past as miners. Though the work was hard and extremely hazardous, the men were able to make a living. In recent years, though, 


Mlk~=;:''~G;;'"'::;'''''~;::;;;:"'] 
Pacific Gas & Electic didn't go to Woodstock. Which is OK with the South Bend high school kids, because they didn't get to go either. 
The circus that resulted when these two forces dashed in Stepan Center Friday night was amazing--enough to make any singer lose his key on a song that he's been singin every Friday and Saturday night for the last 12 or 14 weeks. Stupendous fantastic unbelievable fabulous. Generation gap much? 
The few sane people who walked through the doors of Stepan Center thought they had stumbled into Mardi-Gras-two-months­early-with-no-booths. What they had actually discovered was the 1970 version of a 1962 high school dance, or the once or twice-yearly phenomenon known as the South Bend kids descend on DuLac. 
If you're a South Bend high school kid, you say "what" a lot. Having spent 45 minutes in front of your mirror making sure you look raunchy enought for the scene, you shuffle endlessly around the edge of Stepan Center, joyfully swinging your little leather oh-so-peasnat-like-bag (optional for guys, standard equipment for girls, who need a place to put their stealthily-removed-in-the­ladies-room-first-thing-bra), all in an expression of the simplistic well-being that you haven't felt since your "Tune in' Turn On, Break Out" T -shirt was brand new. You make a big, loving show of it when you are reunited with your friends, who you haven't seen since, God, it must've been 2:30 this afternoon. "Sixth period Geometry, wasn't it?" And, whep the first set is almost over, you ask did Pacific Gas & Electric play yet-~ Pacific Gas &Electric? Indiana Bell'! What difference does it make, man? This is sooooome groovy scene, I mean, man, what a trip! 
As if it made any difference, Pacific Gas &Electric played two pretty respectable sets. PG&E is a blues-based band; they play some kind of blues-rock, or is that rock-blues? Well, it sounds like blues, but it can't be really, because there's three white guys in the group and besides, it has polish. Not an overbearing 
~·=· 
shine, mind you, but some together, you know? 
Anyway, like I was saying, they play a kind of blues, and they play it with a thick, extremely solid base. Frank Cook is on drums and Brent Brock on bass; neither of them is particularlyy flashy, but both are very steady, very dependable, like drummers and bassmen used to be in the good old days. (Also in 
there was Tom Marshall on rhythm guitar-remember rhythm guitar?-but what can you say about that.) 
On top of all this comes the goodie-Charlie Allen on vocals and lead guitarist Glenn Schwartz (I presume). Allen is a powerful singer who ranges from the frantic to the mellow as (it seems more and more) only a black singer can do. As for Schwartz, I can't say that he's fantastic (mainly because nobody else ever said it), but I will say that he handles what might be an overworked idiom very well--lots of guts, lots of pure sound, and more than a few very nice sounqing licks. 

All of which, of course, doe"sn't mean a damn thing, because it was the scene, the happening, the meeting place, the poor kids' Woodstock until the movie comes back to the GRANADA. That's kind of sad, in a way. I mean, some of us went to Woodstock to listen to music; we ended up going home early. 
machines have replaces men in the mining of coal; and so, many families who formerly lived on salaries paid by the mmmg corporations, now exist on we!fare checks. 
But affluent American doesri t only turn its back on Appalachia. It takes advantage of the region's vast natural resources, grabbing what coal, oil, and lumber is aYailable, without regard to the effects of such practices. Bulldozers clear the land in order to expose coal deposits, wiping out all soil and vegetation, and leaving only clay and rock. These, obviously, are unsuitable for growing anything at all. Furthurmore, sulfur deposits, which accompany coal deposits, arc exposed by the bulldozers. The sulfur runs into the creeks, forming sulfuric acid and making the creeks unfit for human use. 
Thus we see that affluent Americans as a whole -the America we at Notre Dame-St. Mary's are familiar with-has ignored the needs of the Appalachian people, and has also taken advantage of the natural resources of the Appalachian region. 
But the effect of these evils is small compared to what America has done to the spirit of the Appalachian people. To a family which is classified "poor," welfare checks are given. With the limited job opportunities available in Appalachia, it is often more profitable for a man not to work. So he learns to exist on what his welfare check provides. 
Furthurmore. the American public and the media have convinced the 
Appalachians that to be a "hillbilly" is 
definitely undesirable. With this in mind, young promising Appalachian men and women move away to larger cities of the East and Midwest, once they are able. In this way, Appalachia loses its brightest and most capable people, the ones who would be most able to assist other Appalachians to alter their living conditions and instill a pride in the people of Appalachia. 
Poverty is not only an economic condition; it encompasses much more. It is a cultural condition insofar as Appalachians (as well as all of us) have been led to believe that their culture is somehow inferior to the dominant American city-oriented culture. It is also a personal condition insofar as Appalachians have been led to believe that they cann'ot alter their condition, but must either accept "welfarism," or leave Appalachia. 
I have attempted to point out some of the characteristics of the Appalachian culture and of the Appalachian people. Though the Appalachians have been abused and taken advantage of by many Americans, theirs is still a proud and beautiful culture. The recent popularization of bluegrass music gives one indication of this. It is important to keep in mind the exploitation of Appalachia by our American society, with an eye toward helping to solve the problems which this exploitation has created. 
In the future articles, we will take a look at the programs already underway which attempt to solve the problems of Appalachia, and the value of these programs; and we will examine what we, as Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, are able to do to help in this task. 
Sex hangups in Micronesia 
... where the men ore shy 
HONOLULU (UPI) -There's no question about who's the boss in Palau. 
The sexual freedom and aggressiveness that women have in the tropical island group of Micronesia would warm the heart of the most rabid women's liberalitionist. 
But for all their superiority in.matters of the heart, says a Honolulu psychiatrist, neither the women nor the men are 
happy. 

Dr. George F. Schnack, who was in Palau as part of a medical teaching team, said Palauan women gained the upper hand long before Women's Lib emerged in the United States or Betty Friedan 
wrote "The Feminine Mystique." · 
"The women aggressively chase the men" he told UPI. "The guys hang back and let the girls make the advances." 
The rare female who is shy and withdrawn is the object of talk and gossip by other women Schnack said. "They consider her odd." 
Aggressiveness starts when the girls are very young, he added-"By the time a girl is eight or ten, you can see that kind of spark in her eyes." 
If anyone feels guilty about the sexual freedom in Palau it's the male. '"'He's 
much more likely to harbor feelings of 
immorality about promiscuity than the 
female" Schnack said. 
But the woman's sexual domination plus practically complete sexual freedom have not been a panacea, even in this beautiful, remote and unspoiled cluster of Pacific islands, part of the Carolinas about 500 miles north of New Guinea. 
"There's an underlying depression" Schnack said, "and the people do not seem to be emotionally mature when they grow up." 
He believes the men are actually afraid of the women and that the women "would like to be close to the men but don't know how. 
Schnack said the aggressiveness of the women has been going on for decades ai::td "trying to speculate why is in the realm of fantasy." 
"But it may have resulted from the way in which warfare among the tribes provided a role for the men." 
"When the wars ended· at the end of 19th century the men were no longer providing the forcefulness in life. They gave up their strength crumbled and the women took over." 

.~ 

'1 '''ldoy, November 16, 1970 





Scanning the campus happenings 
Grace Tower. The forum will 
SMC Drug Forum consist of four short ( 5 minutes) presentations by local author­ities and a discussion period with 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's 

q u es lions and answers will
Academic Commission is pre­senting an open forum on drugs follow. Dr. Sara Charles of Psycholo­
·to be held tonight at 8:00pm in · P .--::-r gical ·Services will speak on
the 1st floor Conversation it 01 .---------------":.:R:.:.e.:..ce:.:n.:.:t:....:.::M:..:e..::d::.:ic:..:·a::.l-=F-='i.:..:n..:::d.:..:in:..<g""s..:i.:..:n..:t.:..:h..:::e1 
STUDENIT UNION CALENDAR 
for the week ofNovember 15-21 

Monday-November 16 7,9 PM Surrealism Film Festival; 'Orpheus" at the Eng Aud 
8:15 PMViolinist w/Piano: WonMo Kim in the Library Aud 
Tuesday-November 17 7,9 PM Surrealism Film Festival; "Beauty and the Beast" Engilleering Auditorium 8:30PM Earthlight theater and dance group 
Wednesday -November 18 7,9 PM Surrealism Film Festival; "Blood of a Poet" and "UnChien A ndalov"-Eng. A ud. 

8:00 PM E. Kiebler Ross speaks at Lib. A ud. 8:00PM Bayanihan Phillipine Dance Co. O'Laughlin Aud. 
Thursday-November 19 · 4:00PM Nathaniel Tarn, Poetry Reading-Washington Hall 7 9 PM Surrealism Film Festival; "Exterminating Angel" 
' Eng. Aud. 8:00PM Flrooie Fisher speaks in the Library Aud. 
8:00 PM Robert Byrnes "The Dreyfus Affair" The 20th Century bebing-Little Theater, SMC 

Fridnv-November 20 . 7,9 PM Surre~lism Film Festival; "Last Year at Marien bad Eng. Aud. 3:30PM Perspective Series in Philosophy in the Lib. Aud. 
Saturday-November 21 1:30PM Football: LSU vs Notre Dame 8:30PM Chambers Broihers Concert in the ACC 

Drug World." Dr. John J. Kane of the Sociology Departmrnt will speak on "Drug Subcul­tures," while Dr. Cyriac K. Pulla­pilly of St. Mary's History 
Department will speak on Drugsand Religious Experience." P1'nally, Dr. George N. Sl1uster, assistant to the President of N.D. and director of the Center for the Study of Man in Contem­porary Society, will speak on "Notre Dame Study on Drug Use and a Conclusion," based upon seven years of research done in the area of East 1OOth Street in New York City. The discussion period will then follow. 
Grad. directories available 
ate students, noted Lorimer The GSU was told that this was because the directories were fi­nanced by the student activities fee, which the graduate student does not 'pay. 
After some two days of in­quiry, Lorimer discovered that the books were paid for by advertising. Besides the present number of directories now in the GSU office, the organization has been promised any extra ad­ministration copies, reports Lori­mer. 
Alcoa award 

The 1970 Alcoa Student De­sign Merit Award has been won by a Notre Dame, student, Robert W. Stowers, Milwaukee, Wis. (7115 N. Barnett Lane). 
Stowers, a candidate for the MFA degree in the department of art, designed an all-aluminum electric heating system for quick installation in low-cost housing. Only a screwdriver is needed to install the radiant heating sys-by the department of theology's graduate program in liturgical studies. Vespers includes a thanksgiving for the light and for 
the day, a penitential rite, an evening psalm, a reading from Holy Scripture, a Gospel can­ticle, a litany of petitions, and the Trisagion and the Lord's Prayer. 
Sunday vespers are sung at 
4:30 p.m. and weekday vespers at 7 p.m. Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Dr. William G. Storey, an associate professor of theology, and Rev. David Wright, O.P., a graduate student in the liturgy program, are in charge of vespers arrangements. 
Challenge accepted 

If there is any truth to the rumor that WSND has chal­lenged The Observer to a foot­ball game we would like it to be known that we accept. We would like to meet with repre­sentatives of WSN D to discuss rules, time, and site of the game. Get in touch with either John Knorr, Terry Shields or Jim Graif. 
Dr. W. R. Sears to speak 
I 
I 
( 
t 
..._ 

-~----~ -----­

Monday, NovLmber 16,1970 THE OBSERVER Page 7 

Proud Yellowjackets frighten Irish 

by Terry Shields 
nation's Number One team to the upcoming opponents. On the first play from scrim­not "down" for this game. HeObserver Sports Editor lose. Joe et al relied on con­The first half of the: game was mage, Theismann hit Ed Gulyas credited Georgia Tech for "an 
There are a lot of tl1ings that a fidence and a great passing who made a sensational crawling 
a fruhrating experience for the outstanding defensive game. I person ..:an come away with 
attack to overcome the stubborn Irish tdefense. Time and agaiP catch good for 4X yards to the take my hat off to them." from a game like that which was Southerners I0-7 in one of the theyt iwou\d supply their offen­Tech 34. The offensive line, Ara was proud of the defen­
play.:d in The Stadium on Satur­
great defensive struggles of the sive mates with good field posi­which was a bit sluggish as com­sive effort put forth by his entire day. One could say that the Irish season. defensive "Our
tion only, to see a fumble, an pared to past performances, then unit. det\msive "just had an off day." Or maybe It is this point that still makes interception or just plain old opent•d up huge holes in the club played what I think was "at least we're still undefeated'' 
some people think that N D stalling ~;oUt (and possibly n Georgia ~line. It took ND six . their best game of the season." could be a good description. 
should retain their primary spot penalty, or two) stop the drive. plays to take the ball in from the Ara added, "To have a successful 
Possibly some one trying to a must the
in the polls. !n a defensive Whenc thet offepse J"irtally did 34. Allan scored the dincher on season, team win defend the Irish national ranking struggle, the Irish eleven showed score with r3: 20 left to play in a two yard run behind the type of game we won today. I 
might suggest "the sign of a of our
that they are truly a rugged the third period on Smith's blocks of Larry DiNardo, Jim was particularly proud great team is coming back from hunch by holding the Yellow­boot, it looked like that was all Humbert and Mike Creaney with club the way they continued to 
near defeat to pull the game a yard come back."
jackets to meager 141 ND would need. As one writer 6:28 remaining.
out." 
total offense. Had it .not been from Atlanta commented, The defense held Tech off As far as NO's ranking is Any one of these could be a for one play, a· 66 yard scoring "That's the most: ·cheering I've two more time before the game's concerned, the coach had this to fitting way in which to relate strike from Eddie 'vlcAshen t,, ever seen Notre Dame do for a end,once after a short ten yard say, "I am interested in the pollsexa...:tly what happened last split end Larry Studdard, the field goal." punt by Jim Yoder. Yoder's on November 28. It's nice to be Saturday afternoon, but the Irish would have played the per­punting had been magnifi...:ent up No r as we were this week, but 
single most impressive thought The out-weighed Yellow­
kct defensive game. to that point. The game saving the only ranking I want is on 
of the day had to be the fantas­jackets came back suddenly and
Consider these .stats. Brent play was fittingly made by Nov. 28 when we close our 
tic game that the Georgia Tech almost fatally before the period
Cunningham, the f~st and fancy Clarence Ellis who made his season.''
Yellowjackets displayed. They ended. After Tech had been sent
tailback averaging 5,7 yards per second interception of the day The final two thoughts on this
made one person have a great back to 34 yard !line con­
carry, gained only 14 yards in ln their own with only I: SX left in the game say it all. Notre Dame beat 
deal more respect for Tech, and on an offensive pass interference 
carries. The entire ground test. a fine football team. Also, save
for Southern football in general, penally, McAshen, wlwse erratic 
offense for Tech generated only After the game Ara Parseghian those No. l buttons. This team
after the courageous exhibition passing reminded some of
32 yards net. McAshen, aside is far from out of the picture.
made certain that the Irish wereJimmy
they put. forth. As Tech coach from the scoring strike, hit on Jones of USC, threw a 
Bud Carson said after the game. perfect pass to the ND 30 where
but five of 17 attempts for 43

"Any time you hold the l!1ost Studdard took the ball in stride
yards. In short, Tech was 

dangerous offense in the country and outraced Clarence Ellis and
stymied.

to l 0 points you know you've Mike Crotty to the end zone.
The Irish offense actually

done a great jol1." There was I: 51\ remaining when
didn't do a bad job either. Tiley

This is not to give the impres­this score occur~d.
gained 44X yards and although

sion that Tech was pleased with The Irish ...:oulcln't get a scor­
this is over I 00 below average it 

the end result of the game, far ing drive going in two attempts
is still very good. The only

from it. They came to cold. after the Tech touchdown. NO
problem for ND was that they

windy South Bend to win, not did march to the GT 18 and on
could never quite take the ball in 

simply to keep the score down. an attempted TD pass to Denny
for the kill. This is a tribute to 

By midway duough the fourth Allan. Rick Lewis, however,
the Georgia defense. One Ca ,, 

quarter they had more than one picked off the Theismann­
dust off that old cliche, "they

Notre Dame rooter believi11g thrown pigskin in the end zone.
were tough when they had to 

It looked darker than the late
that they could accomplish wltat be" to describe their effort. afternoon skies for the Irish at
they came to do. Fortunately Both Scott Hempel and Scott 
this point. However, the defense
for the Irish there is a fellow Smith were off in their kicking rose to the occasion again as it
named Joe Theismann (not to game although it was Smith's 34 
halted Tech after two first
mention 50 other players and a yard placement which decided downs. The offense took over on
coaching staff) •vho did not the for N D .• One believe it possible for the good the N D 20, following Chip Pall­man's punt. 
Statistics-still No.1? 
PASSING ATT COMP INT YDS TDTEAM STATISTICS GT ND 
First Downs Rushing 2 10 Theismann 30 15 2 272 0 First Downs Passing 4 11 First Downs by Penalty 0 1 F1ECEIVING NO YDS TD TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 6 22 Gatewood 5 104 0 Number Attempt Rushing 37 60 Allan 5 66 0 Yards Gained Rushing 80 211 Gulyas 2 73 0 Yards Lost Rushing 48 35 Barz 2 12 0 NET YARDS RUSHING 32 176 Creaney 17 0 Number Passes Attempted 18 30 Number Passes Completed 6 15 Number Passes had Intercepted 2 2 PUNTING NO AVG NET YARDS PASSING 109 272 Yoder 6 35 Number Play~ Total 55 90 TOTAL OFFENSE 141 448 PUNT RETURNS NO YDS Number Interceptions 2 2 Ellis 1 8 Yards Interceptions Returned 0 -2 Crotty 2 10 Number Times Punted 12 6 Number Punts had Blocked 0 0 KICKOFF RETURNS NO YDS PUNTING AVERAGE 37 35 Crotty 1 18 Number Punts Returned 3 3 NETYARDSPUNTSRTU 43 18 GEORGIA TECH Number Kickoffs Returned 3 1 Yards Kickoffs Returned 58 18 Number Times Penalized 3 2 
RUSHING ATT YDS TD
TOTAL YARDS PENALIZED 35 30 
McAshan 11 -12 0
Numbnr Times Fumbled 1 1 
Harkey 7 21 0
NUMBER FUMBLES LOST 0 1 
Cunningham 16 14 0 Pall man 2 5 0 Wysong 4 0
NOTRE D;\ME 0 0 3 7 10 GEORGIA TECH 0 0 7 0 7 
PASSING ATT COIVIP INT YDS TD McAshan 18 6 2 109 
SCORING '~ECEIVING NO YDS TD
ND: Smith 34 field goal .)tuddard 3 82 1

GT: Studdard 66 pass, from McAshan Thigpen kick Cunningham 2 14 0 
ND: Allan 2 run, Hempel kick Pall man 13 0 
PUNTING 

NO AVG Pall man 12 37 
NOTRE DAME PUNT RETURNS NO YDS 
Wysong 3 43
RUSHING ATT YDS TD Theismann 18 21 0 
KICKOFF RETURNS NO YDS
Barz 8 30 0 
Lewis 2 25
Gulvas 12 63 0 
Studdard 1 33
Allan 21 64 1 
Dewan 1 0 0 

TOUCHDOWN! Denny Allan scores the only Irish touchdown of the afternoon. This score was enough to keep NO's undefeated streak alive, however. 


It was truly a day of defensive prominence. Greg Marx and the other defensive linemen put pressure on Tech qb Eddie McAshan all afternoon. Clarence Ellis was quite a hero with two brilliant interceptions. The last of which clinched the game for ND. 
Even with a superlative effort 
the Irish could not keep the 
proud Yellowjackets from 

scoring as Larry STuddard outran Mike Crotty on a 66 yard pass play that put Tech in the lead, almost for good. 
Possibly the best wayof describing the defensive job is to look. at Brent Cunningham's statistics. Usually a back who gains 5.7 yards per attempt, he was held to a paltry 14 yards in 16 attempts at the ND defense. 

to any city i[n Phone -234 '1 

Hair Styling 
for ND men the ContinetJtal Way 
Razor Cutting l Style European Layer Shaping for Long Hair 
Have Long Hair & 
Let Miss Treva & The Baron Be Well Groon1.ed Serve & Pamper you 
306 S'lerland l~ldg. South Bend, Ind. 
Student Rates
234-0811 

Proof of age required
B A t. 

ON THE MALL 
Y SHOPPING CENTRE (Mishawaka) 

• HOV • HOV • HO'/ • H V • HOV • HOV • HOV • HuV .. 
H H 
0 0 
y 
v 

H H 
0 0 
v v 
H H 
0 0 
v v 
H H 
0 0 
v v 
H H 
0 0 
v 

W HOy • HOV HOV HO V
..._= ·~~ • HOY • HQY • HOY • HOY • HOY • HQV • Hoy • HOY • _ 
MOST COMPLETE ATHLETIC STORE IN THE AREA 
Adidas-Basketba11, Soccer & Trac~ Shoes 
Northland Hockey Sticks 
Bauer Hockey Skat~s 
N.D. Jacket & Errblems 
T-Shirts Imprinted for any organization 
•IDWDT ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT Sl7 N HILL IT COIIIIEIIIO BEJID AYE a HILL IT 
tel: 212•1110 
Latest m Bells, Body-shirt.,, un-suits, vests Posters & Things 


f 





