
Interview with Robert Anson pg. 5 

Vol. v, No. 16 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community Thursday, oct. 1, 1970 
~~~~----------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-----------------------­

OBSERVER BACK 
In a tension-filled meeting highlighted by the dramatic ap­pearance of the legendary Robert Sam Anson, founder of The Observer, the editorial board named Glen Stuart Corso editor for the remainder of the year and resolved to recom­mence daily publication effec­tive immediately. 
Anson, who while working for TIME magazine last summer was captured in Cambodia and held for two weeks, wandered into The Observer office unannoun­ced in the middle of the lengthy board meeting, as he wandered into the picture four years ago to edit the fledgling Observer after the deinise of the Voice. On the heels of Publisher Guy De Sapio's angry charge that the editor, "has to push; continually push; to make the paper worth­while," Anson counselled THE OBSERVER to find "a sense of what is right with the University and what is wrong." 
"I was really sick about this," 
Anson said, referring to THE 
SMC votes no to recess plan 
The SMC Student Assembly 
voted Tuesday not to endorse 
the proposed political recess, 
Oct. 24-Nov. 4. 
In an Il-l vote, the govern­
ing body decided not to support 
the recess; but, instead, drafted a 
proposal which would allow St. 
Mary's students to take part in 
election activities. 
Under the assembly proposal, students who wished to work during the elections will arrange a written agreement with their professors which will allow them to arrange their work load around the recess. 
The plan states that "no puni­tive action may be taken" against the students who take part in the recess such as lower­ing their grades. No proof of participation in election activi­ties will be required of the stu­dent. 
Any violation of the recess agreement signed by the faculty member and the student may be brought before the Community Relations Board. 
The proposal was accepted unanimously by the student as­sembly. The next step in its implementation is approval by the Academic Affairs Council. 
An all-school convocation will be held at 4:00 p.m. today in O'Laughlin Auditorium for dis­cussion of the details and impli­
cations of the political recess. 
Student government officials will present new off-campus and drug policies which will come up before the Board of Trustees at their meeting Oct. 9. The prob­lem of residence halls and in­creasing student enrollment will also be discussed. 

Glen Corso elected editor 
OBSERVER's suspension. "I don't know quite how relevant my experiences are -we only came out once a week -but we would get the paper out on Friday, go out drinking when we were finished, and know we had a damn good paper. That's what made the whole thing worthjt." 
Corso, a Massapequa, New York, junior, was elected min­utes after Anson's comments and under Corso's direction the Editorial Board decided to pre­sent requests for financial aid and academic credit in order to make reportorial chores, in Cor­so's terms, "more attractive things." 
"We need at least forty re­porters to give the in-depth news reporting we intend to con­duct," said Corso. THE OBSER­VER presently has twenty-three reporters. 
Corso also announced what he termed "a major reshuffling," in THE OBSERVER's hierarchy. Night Editor John Knorr, a Senior Business major from Oklahoma City assumed the now vacant post of Executive Editor. 
His position as Night Editor will be assumed by St. Mary's Senior Mary Chris Morrison. 
Philadelphia Sophomore Ed Ellis was named news editor. Corso called the move a "re­definition of the News Depart-

Princeton Plan ballot Friday 
ment. Under the plan, Ellis will be responsible for story assign­ments. 
In other moves, Senior Dave Lammers assumed control of the OBSERVER Features Depart­ment, succeeding T.C. Treanor, who becomes Editorial Page Editor; and seniors Dave 
Stauffer, of Boaz, West Virginia, and Sue Bury of Battle Creek, Michigan, were named associate editors. 
All in all, only publisher Guy De Sapio and Sports Editor Terry Shields were not involved in the reshuffling. Corso explain­ed the moves by saying, "People 
2!ere out of position where they were. Some of our best talents were stagnating in irrelevant positions they assumed as stop­gap measures. Well, the stopgap measures are over." Corso also revealed the com­position of the Editorial Board, which he pledged would produce "at least one editorial a week." Corso would serve alongside -Knorr, Ellis, Lammers, Treanor, Bach, a representative yet to be elected by the night editors, and a representative yet to be elected from the staff. A separate SMC Editorial Board will be set up within a week. On issues concerning both campuses the two will hold joint meetings. 
(printed on page three). Voters must report to the appropriate desk on the second floor of the Main Building, present their "l.D." cards and sign poll list before balloting. The election will be supervised by student and faculty representatives and 12 voting clerks. 
SMC students will use a voting machine but must report in the same manner as Notre Dame voters. SMC faculty will use the paper ballot. Supervision will be conducted by the respective stu­dent and faculty referendum committee. 
The ballot proposal reads: "Special Recess Proposal: That classes will be suspended and dining halls closed from Satur­day, October 24, 1970, to Wed­
nesday, November 4, 1970, in­clusive; class days missed will be made up before the semester officially ends by adjusting the present calendar in these ways: the semester will be extended to December 23 with examinations beginning December 17; classes will be extended through De­cember 14, 15, and 16; classes will also be held on Saturday, November 21, Friday and Saturday November 27.anr1 28, and Saturday, December 5 and December 12. " 

The academic council an­
nouncement noted that the 
missed classes missed "would be 
made up from a shortening of 
Thanksgiving and Christmas 
breaks combined with Saturday 
classes." 
The proposal cancels two days of Thanksgiving vacation, adds two Saturday classes and chops four days from the Christmas vacation. 
The proposal must be adopted by an absolute majority of the joint student bodies and the joint faculties. According to Cor­baci this means about 4600 stu­dent votes and 425 faculty votes from votes on both campuses. Passage results in the closing of both campuses. 
He said that this system could result in the proposal passing ·even if it was defeated at St. Mary's. The results of the voting should be available by 8 p.m. Friday according to Corbaci. 
Corbaci said that the Notre 
Dame vote was not held in the 
halls for three reasons. A central­
ized location accomodated off­
campus students and faculty 
(Continued on page 6) 

by John Abowd 
Observer Night Edit<'•. 
The joint faculty-student ND-SMC committee on the Princeton Plan referendum yes­terday announced details of tlie voting procedure. Leo Corbaci, chairman and Notre Dame Reig­strar, revealed that the ND bal­loting will be held Friday in the Administration from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. for both students and f acuity. 
Donald Rosenthal, SMC Reg­istrar, announced that St. Mary's students will vote in the new Reignbeaux Room in LeMans from 8 to 6. SMC faculty will vote on the ground floor of the library from 8 to 4. 
Notre Dame students and faculty will use a paper ballot 
Corso, before being named editor-in-chief, served THE OBSERVER as News Editor, Night Editor and Campus Edit­or. Earlier in the year, he had· served simultaneously as night editor and Campus Editor. 
Corso's predecessor, Dave Bach, revealed that he will re­-main with THE OBSERVER as semi-official "coordinator" be­tween the reportorial and pro­auction ends of the staff.-He forsees "close cooperation" be­tween THE OBSERVER and the Communications Arts Depart­ment, and hopes to establish Seminars and Worbhops to aid THE OBSERVER in finding re­
porters 


Page 2 THE OBSERVER Thursday, Oct. 1, 1970 
October 2 vote 
Krashna urges approval of Princeton Plan 
by Cliff Wintrode A total concentration on the sibility that pressure from top He was optimistic that some should also be a time for putting 
Observer Staff Writer war position of a candidate administrators and members of arrangement could be made in some of what you have learned 
Student Body President Dave while ignoring other issues might the Board of Trustees influenced this area and he was banking on into practice;" 
Krashna said yesterday he was lead to support of a candidate the Academic Council's regula-the "cooperation bond" estab-He said that although student, 
"very much in favor" of the who was a "half-stepper" on lions for referendum passage, lished last spring during strike being the educated members of a 
Princeton Plan dispelling any poverty and civil rights feared but he did not know of any such week between faculty members society have a responsibility to 
campus rumors to the contrary, Krashna. He also warned of a pressure. and students. share that knowledge, they also 
and urged students to vote yes candidate talking out of both Krashna also said that student Krashna said that the univer-can learn from those who are 
tomorrow on the campaign re-sides of his mouth on the war. government would mail "within sity can be "flexible enough" to "daily living within this political 
cess referendum. Krashna was not optimisitc a week" letters to Father lies-accommodate people with system." 
Earlier in the day, the Notre about the passage of the referen-burgh, Father Burtchaell, and strong commitments to political "This particular phase of the 
Dame student government office dum on Friday and felt the Professor Osterly (chairman of involvement for the referendum student's education may be the 
distributed flyers to every cam-Academic Council "consciously the Faculty Senate) asking that was "based on people having a most \VOrthwhile." 
pus room containing a statement made conditions adverse" to its people who leave to help candi-commitment towards helping Krashna blamed the de-escala­
from Krashna outlining his posi-passage. dates, irregardless of the referen-others about the war." tion of interest by the Academic 
tion. He indicated that nothing has dum vote, should not be "overly Krashna believed that a stu-Council in the war and the 
Krashna did warn students of been said to him directly by any penalized" academically. dent must look beyond the uni-Princeton Plan on a 
possible traps that might befall member of the Academic Couh-This letter will advocate al-versity confines and realize his nationwide de-escalation of 
them on the campaign trail, but cil, but that the Council was not lowing campaigning students to responsibility to the outside interest in the war. 
stil.l believed that "students as "firmly committed" to the make up all papers and tests and world. "Wh · at IS going to get the
should go out and help affect referendum as last spring and did not have their grade lowered due "The university is not a res-interest in the war stirred ur the political process, however, not want the university shut to excessive absences. Missing pite from the world for four being critical of their actions and down. "valuable" class hours is felt years. Instead it should be a (C · d 6)
ontmue on page

the actions of their candidates." He did not rule out the pos-enough punishment by Krashna. learning period," he said. "It 
1==~=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;.~:!:~:::::~::!:!:!:!:!!::=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:: 
·!!1! Radio Distributing [!ji GOP candidate gives talk 
~ ~ 
be affiliated with the campus:~~~i Fantastic T1ruck load Sale l~ll Donald Newman, Republican political organization in the cam­
candidate for Indiana's Third paign. 
Congressional District (South As a result of the Observer 1111 limited Time 2 Days Only /JJJ Bend -Mishawaka) addressed 

cessation of publication, John the members of the Notre Dame Gaither past president, intro­

~~~~ 0 2· 3 ONLY !~~~ 
==== ct. ., :=::. St. Mary's College duced a resolution for additional Republicans Club Tuesday Observer funds. evening.
I ST~~~ ~;:o:~:M FM sTEREo
ELECTRO VOICE UP TO 50% ~ 
At the dub's first meeting, He moved that the campusNewman commented on the newspaper be subsidized by

• SYSTEM h 
.·.=:i:::i

This basic Aristocrat system, t e three issues of his campaign: funds from the student ac­1082, is comprised of the receiver, the 
···· national economy, the Southeast tivity fee.
speakers, all required connecting leads, Asian War, and the problem of 
and deluxe instruction booklet. Every­Concerned over the deduction
crime and violence in the streets.

thing you need to receive AM, FM or FM from the activity's fee, TomAfter Newman's speech, clubStereo broadcasts is included, plus the president Joe Fitzmyer establish­Thrasher amended the proposalcapacity to add other external sources, so that the revenue could come
ed separate groups for Richard from other sources such as thesuch as a record changer or tape deck at 

any time. The entire system is supplied Roudebush, GOP senatorial can­
in a single carton, ready to plug in and didate, and Newman. Through Scholastic budget. 
play. With the amendment, the
this action, he felt that he could MFG. SUG. RETAIL $119.95. NOW motion passed unanimously.
involve students not wishing to 
8. to I 

: $7.00 per month ! II::==P=r=ic=e=$=2=.0=0:::::::pe·r-pe;;r;aso=n!::(s=tu=d=e=nt=s:;;$=1::::.0=0=-=m=u=st=s=h=o=w=ID='=s)=::H 
: Share the cost : 
Open 
Proof of 

:with your roommates : 
Age Required
12:45

: $10 Damage Deposit Fee : 
: (Refundable) : 
: PLUS Compensation for : 
: Vacation Periods Additional ~3.50 refunded after each : :. semester upon return of refrigerator. • : Example: 1-fave refrigerator for entire year : : and we 111rill refund the $10.00 plus an : : additional $7.00 -like having 1 month : 
: FREE. : 

: You can rent or buy : 
: ,Delivery, Service, Maintenance, & Pick-Up ARE FREE .: 

!• COMPACT COOL, INC. i• 
: another service of Student Services Commission :: 
: Contact: DICK GORMAN : : 7757 or 6723 : : 4th F'loor LaFortune 4 -6 ~ : : or 123 Farlev •
1

.••••••••••••••••••••••~ .....:. 
!~~~ RADIO DISTRIBUTING CO. $S4.9 s·
I 1212 High Street 288-4666 ~ 
~:=:=::;:;:::::;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:!:~:~:~:~:~:~:~==~=~=~=~=::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
~·································································
: REFRIGERP\TORS FOR RENT ! 
: • unlimited Supply : • 

On the Night Before The 
ND-MSU Game Pr..a........., 
Lille Music -Cash Bar Jack Tar Hotel Friday October 2 
Page 3

Thursday, Oct. 1, 1970 

OFFICIAL CLASS MORATORIUM BALLOT
Republican candidates speak; 
iNSTRUCTIONS 

I. USE ONLY TH~ATL GIVEN TO YOU. NO OTHER TYPE WILL RECORD ON THE
discuss important issues 
FORM. ~~ ~~ 
l>y Floyd Kezele 
Observer Staff Writer 
Congressman Richard L. Roudebush, (R.-Ind., Fifth Dis­trict), candidate for the United States Senate and Don Newman, Republican candidate for Con­gress in Indiana's Third District addressed about sixty people from the Notre Dame com­munity at the Faculty Lounge last night. 
The program which was or­ganized by Professor Frederick Dow and moderated by Prof. Anthony Black of SMC, con­sisted of a short speech by each candidate and was followed by a spirited question and answer period. 
Mr. Newman said that while the United States should offer Israel economic and military aid, we should not -commit troops to the area. 
Mr. Roudebush added that "Colonel Nasser was a moderate man," and while he may have talked tough, it was probably to instill a sense of nationalistic pride in his people. He did think that situation in the Mid-East is definitely tense. 
Concerning his Arms for North Vietnam T.V. spots, Con­gressman Roudebush said, "I did not preview the footage, but did read the content and did not find it to be objectionable." 
He said it was a true represen­tation of the facts according to the Congressional Record. 
He added that his staff showed it but that he was willing to be responsible for their acts even though he could not per­sonally oversee the entire cam­paign or watch 24 Indiana stations at one time. 
Mr. Roudebush said white and black students should be in­dicted if they were involved in last spring's riots on Indiana state universities. 
Mr. Newman said that he sup­ported the State Attorney General's suit against Indiana State for damages but agreed with Roudebush in that if whites were also guilty, they should also be indicted. 
Roudebush said he was in 
favor of a volunteer army which 
was feasible except in cases of 
national emergency. He also said 
that it was wrong to feel that 
such an army would be predomi­
nately made up of minorities 
because all studies thus far point 
this up to be false. 
Junior League Thri t Shop over 30,000 items new and used furniture, clothing, houseward, etc. STEPAN CENTER THURS. OCT. 1 \FRI. OCT, 2 9 A.M. -6:30 P.M. 9-12 (no!lril The Notre Dame Glee Club presents "An Evening of Music" Fall Concert Washington Hall Friday 8:15pm Admission Free  
r he Observer is puolished ·daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame an<1 St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may i>e purchased for $8 from The Ob­server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, ln<1. 46556.  

Joe Fitzmyer, chauman of the Notre Dame Young Republicans said, "Congressman Roudebush showed through his answers that he is the type of person Indiana needs, more than any other can­didate, he represents the feeling of the people of Indiana. 
"Mr. Roudebush also shows a great understanding for the situ­ation of the university campuses, as witnessed by his concern over the incidents at Indiana State." 
The commercial drew heavy criticism from Hartke's staff and a lawsuit was threatened. The commercial is not run anymore. 
The only students indicted in this incident are black. Roude­bush said he had not known this. 
2. COMPLETELY BLI\\..-._ ,.,~~ ..)( BELOW WHICH REPRESENTS YOUR CHOICE. BLANK BALLOTS AND BALLv. 'C .,:JjuE BOX MARKED WILL NOT BE
0

VALID.  ~­ 
3. IF  YOU  MAKE  A  MISTAKE,  ERASE  CLEAJ"'._,_  ,.MARK THE CORRECT  
CHOICE.  .  
4. PLACE  BALLOT  IN  THE  BOX  PROVIDED. DO NOT 1-<0LD.  

Special Recess Proposal That classes will be suspended and Dining Halls closed from Saturday, October 24, 1970 to Wednesday, November 4, 1970 inclusive; class days missed will be made up before the semester officially ends by adjusting the present calendar in these ways: the semester will be extended to December 23 with examinations beginning· December 17; classes will be extended through December 14, 15, abd 16; classes will also be held on Saturday, November 21, Friday and Saturday, November 27, and 28, and Saturday, December 5, and December.12. 
PRESENT YOUR ..1.0." CARD 
Aiternative No. 1: No, I do not favor the Special Recess Proposal. 
Alternative No.2: Yes, I favor the Special Recess Proposal. 
NOTRE DAME
ST. MARY'S COLLEGE 
Administration Bldg.,

Rec. room of LeMans Hall 
Second Floor 
8 a.m. to 6 p.m. 

Ifyou can afford asports car,. 
how come youcan't afford a decent pencil sharpener? 
A sharp car may arouse a chick's interest. But a sharp pencil leaves her with a". 
deep impression. 
And you can keep sharpening your pencils ten times longer than the other guys with a Panasonic electric pencil sharpener. Because it has tungsten-steel · blades: With a sealed electric motor that knows how to grind away without grinding your pencil to a frazzle. Not only that, but an electric light flashes on when it's time to pull it out. 
You don't have to worry about pinning down our pencil sharpener, either. Four super-suction pads on the base hold it down so you don't have to. 
But it's not just a tactile experience, using our Point-0-Matic. It's also aesthetic. In a choice of Collegiate Walnut or Ivy Green finishes. 
Just tool over to the bookstore in your sports car. Or your heap. And walk out with a Panasonic electric pencil sharpen~r. *Secure in the knowledge that while somebody 
) may have a groovier car, nobody will have a more desirable pencil. 
PANASONIC~ 
juStslightly ahead of our time. 
•. 

*Be sure to pay for it. Also, notice the Panasonic lamps. They're sight for sore eyes. 
Page 4 
THE OBSERf/ER. 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GLEN S. CORSO, Editor GAETANO M. DeSAPIO, Publisher 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Arms for Israel 
The Middle East could !hardly ··.be less stable than it is now. Moderate Arab nationalists are under fire by the extremists. Peripheral conflicts appear constantly amidst the greater and continuing war. The man who appeared to be the best bet to bring peace to the sad and troubled area, Abdel Nasser, is dead. The repugnant presence of the Soviet Union is becoming stronger. 
Yet there seemed to be a respite of sorts. Jordan had defeated the invading Syrians, and Middle East guns were quiet, at least for a while. 
In such a situation, then, it seems ironic that the House of Representatives offers their expressed desire to "restore and maintain military balance in the Middle East" as a justification for their late appropriation of point eight billion dollars in military aid for Israel. 
One wonders whether the Jordanians and the Syrians appreciated the irony. For surely the most clear and present chasm in the Middle East is not between Israel and the the United Arabs, but between those nations surrounding Israel who have war, and those who would not have war. Those who would have war are motivated by a potpouri of things, but the most important of them is fear -fear of Israel, fear of the United States, fear of even mo)'e radical elements in their own nation. The action of the House of Representatives has done nothing to allay those fears. 
The Soviet Union has long based its case in the Arab republics on their fear of an incredibly strong Israeli-American alliance. The action of the House of Representatives has done nothing to allay those fears, either. 
Rather, the action of the House of Representatives strengthened the contention of radical Arabs that the Western power Axis which originally carved Israel out oi native Arab soil intends to further expand that nation and further imperil Arab land resources, and citizens. So, too, did the rationales offered by the distinguished members of the House. 
L. Mendel Rivers, Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, suggested that "If we give Israel the tools, she will do the job of protecting the interests of the Western World in the Middle East." 
If we learned any lesson from Vietnam, it is that we can never expect other nations to defend interests that we have established, defined, and determined ourself. Israel is a free nation, with her own commitments and her own interests. To offer military aid with those kinds of strings is a dangerous and repulsive thing. 
History might vindicate the astonishing allotment. Sometime in the distant future, some historian might judge that, after all, the gamble somehow extended the lull that the Jordanian triumph initiated. But somewhere in the chilling future, too, is the dissonant possibility that the gamble won't pay off. And if it doesn't, then we need not worry about the historian's vindication. He won't be there. 

resolved.
The emotionalism of the strike last spring serv1:d 
The propoposed recess provides an opportunity
not only to generate a common concern and spitit 
for students and faculty rr.embers to take action 
of unity among students and faculty. It's spotlight 
on the beliefs and opinions they expressed in May. 
on the Cambodian invasion also acted as lm 
Working through the system and possible effecting 
impetus for discussions, teach-ins, and involv·e­
a change seems a more worthwhile choice than
mt:nt in activities such as canvassing South 
being considered as only interested in emotional
Bend area. 
involvement.
The Communiversity set up was valuable at that 
The same administrators and students that held
time, and still is, for the points it revealed about 
up · last May on the question of a political recess
our academic system. For example, time spent in 
because the atmosphere was too charged grimace 
the classroom is not and cannot be the sole 
now because it is too late. Uninvolved students say 
exposure to educational experience. The transition 
it is senseless because they are uninvolved. It won't
from learning to life must'. be made. 
be too late. to change until November 4th. 
Upon examining the basic issue of the strike, 
However the students on the issue, if ntothing
that is influencing and pressuring the U.S. govern­
else, it is imperative that he or she vote. It's not
ment into immediate withdrawal from S.E. Asia 
worth the inconvencience to add aparthetic, incon­
(and now the potential intrusion into the Middlle 
sistent, and irresponsible to our list of descriptive
East), it is obvious that the situation has not be•~n 
adjectives. Or hypocritical. 
Executive Editor: John Knorr  
Business Manager: 13ruce. Rieck  The opinions expressed in the  
Advertising Manager: Bruce Barker News Editor: Ed Ellis Editorial Page Editor: T.C. Treanor Features Editor: Dave Lammars  •  editorials, news analyses, and columns of The Observer are solely the opinions of the authors  
Sports Editor; Terry Shields SMC News Editor: Jeanne Sweeney Night Editor: Jim Graff Assoc. Editors: Dave Stauffer, Sue Bury Production Staff: Mary Chris Morrison, Ann Conway, Ann Therese Darin, Harold Taegel, Rich Smith, Joe Abell, Floyd '<ezlele  and editors of The Observer and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame. their administrations, faculty, or student bodie~.  

Thursday, Oct. 1, 1970 

''I still say it's a bomber design." 
Dave Lammers 
It's Tea Party Time 
I was talking to my neighbor Dick Garrity the other night. Dick 
works as a lineman for the South Bend electrical company ("Anybody can climb a telephone pole, but once you get up there you damn well better know what you're doing") and he lives in a house a few doors down from me on High Street. Dick is about fifty years old, coached high school football at Marian for a few years, and has got the classic beer gut that you would expect from an Inr.\iana football fan. 
When Dick talks to you he doesn't really expect you to talk back, he says something, suggests the answer that you should give, and then goes on. For example. 
"Now take the Boston Tea Party," Dick said. "How many guys do • • you think went on that ship and threw all that damn tea into the ocean? About fifteen or twenty at the most? Right? O.K. And how many people in the colonies were behind those fifteen guys when they did that? Maybe thirty per cent of the people at the· most, right? Am I right? O.K. And what did those fifteen guys end up with, what did all those crazy revolutionaries end up with? Independence. Right? Right. O.K. If they hadn't had the guts to throw that tea into the ocea·n, where would we be today? Nobody knows, right? Right. Because they did it, that's why. They just went ahead and did it, and the people finally got behind them, and then· we gotthe United States of America." 
Dick Garrity is not one of these guys that hates kids. He thinks th~t the college population, with its rumored idealism and energy, is . ~omg tog? out and turn this country around. So he went on to say, 
And that s what you kids have got to go out and do. You've got to go out and do things, and maybe at first only a few people will be behind you, but then when you prove to the people that what you did was right, then after awhile the people will get behind you and you'll see that what you did was the right thing in the long run." 
Which is what the historian Arnold Toynbee said in more academic terms when he said that every society is motivated by and receives it direction from 1"a creati~e minority." 
I don't know about the rest of the people around here, but speaking for myself, these are frightening times. I am frightened by a political mood that says that young people, and their educational institutions, are to be suppressed and guarded against. Anyone who has seen one of Mr. Richard Roudebusch's television advertisements for the position of Senator knows the feeling of disgust and rage at seeing the cleverly contained message that says, "Our President, right or wrong," "A vote for Hartke is a vote for the S.O.S.," "A vote for Hartke puts a gun in the hands of a VietCong killer," etc. 
Many people have doubted the effectiveness of student campaigners in the upcoming November elections for very pragmatic reasons. "What can be accomplished in two weeks?" we are asked. Some believe that students will do more harm than good if they 
actively support "dovish" candidates. Many doubt the sincerity and good will of men like Hartke, taking the radical position that we have to start over again with new institutions and radically different structures. 
So let us pick up the spirit of t!Ie Americans, like Dick Garrity, that have hope for this country, hope in young people, hope for a political regeneration. When the referendum comes up for a vote tomorrow, give some thought to voting for it. If you don't like the referendum proposal, take advantage of the alternate proposals that Dave Krashna is working out with the administration. Watch a few T.V. ads for Dick Roudebusch, let your mind turn to Vietnam, Cambodia, Kent State, or the South Bend slums, and let your energy turn to the men that you think can safeguard our nation from further tragedies. Let's get out and do it. 

--c -~-~.~. 
--~--·-------------­
Thursday, Oct. 1, 1970 
THR OBSERfJER. Page 5 
Robert Anson: irlterview with a founder 
Robert Anson, former Saigon 
OBSERVER: But not from co"espondent for Time mag­your captors? azine, graduated from the Uni­ANSON: No, not after the versity of Notre Dame in June, first few days. 196 7. After graduation he went OBSERVER: Could you tell to work for the Chicago Bureau su what you gained from the 
experience?
of Time. In September, 1967 he 
ANSON: Well, it was a fan­
was transfe"ed to Los Angeles, 
tastic experience. Just journalist­
where for two years he covered 
ically it was a marvelous oppor­
student and Democratic politics 
tunity. Personally, it was the
in California. In September, 
highpoint of my life; it broad­
1969, he was transfe"ed to Sai­
ened my understanding of Indo­
gon, where he covered Vietnam, 
china. You get closer to another 
Laos, Thailand, and Cambodia. 
culture and find out how the 
On August 3, 1970 while driving other half lives. You find basic­
out of Phnom Penh, Cambodia, ally that they have to live the 
to cover a battle at Skoun, he same way we do. 
was captured by OBSERVER: How do you 
find the Vietnamese people? 
anti-government forces. Three 
ANSON: I find the people of
weeks later, after what he terms 
both North and South Vietnam
"the high point of my life" he 
to be the most remarkable 
was released unharmed and in 
people I have ever encountered. 
good health by his captors. 
Incredible inciustry and energy. I Anson's next assignment is in cannot imagine another people Beirut, where he wiD cover the who could go through 25 years Middle East for Time. of more or less non-stop warfare Last night, Mr. Anson was on and suffer the horrors that both campus to thank University Pres­North and South Vietnam have gone through and keep bouncing 
ident Theodore Hesburghfor his 
up. For more, they are just one
help in freeing him from his 
of the most remarkable people in 
Cambodian captors. A former 
the whole world. I have affec­
editor of the Observer, he stop­
tion for all the Vietnamese,
ped at the Observer office in the 
North and South. 
middle of the Observer executive 
OBSERVER: What was it like board meeting. After the to cover the Southeast Asian decision was made to resume situation as a whole? ;>ublishing, Mr. Anson consented ANSON: When I was in to the following interview. con­Southeast Asia I spent less than 
ducted by Observer News Editor half of my time in Vietnam, a couple of months· in Thailand
Ed Ellis. 
two or three months in Laos and about three and a half months in Cambodia. In Thailand, of ·OBSERVER: What did you course, there is no war situation, expect when you were first cap-yet in many respects this is the tured? hardest country in Southeast 
ANSON: Frankly, I didn't Asia to cover. Laos is an ex­know what to expect. If they tremely frustrating place. were able to find out that I was Souvanna Phouma calls it the a journalist, I felt that I had an forgotten war. It's very difficult . excellent chance for survival. to get first-hand information and The difficulty was in letting impossible to get to the scene of them know that I was a journal-a battle. You have to relv on ist. field reports that are somewhat 
OBSERVER: Had you had contradictory. You can't get any experience with the com-close to the people in Laos. munist elements there before? Between half and two thirds of 
ANSON: I'd seen them but I the country is under Pathet Lao never had personal contact with · control and so you're pretty them. I had talked to communist much confined to the cities. You diplomats, North Vietnamese , can't go ten miles from Vien-Pathet Lao and NLF. . tiane. 
OBSERVER: We gather from In Vietnam reporting is a very your TIME article that they organized affair. The American treated you pretty well? and Vietnamese military are ANSON: Yes, excellently. usually only too happy to show OBSERVER: You mentioned you around and tell you their 
a bond of friendship between point of view and provide good you and your captors; how did facilities. There's no censorship this develop in a situation like problems. Wheth~r a . reporter that? gets to the bottomof a story or 
AN S 0 N: Something like not depends on his own initia~ friendship in those circumstan-tive or energy. Vietnam is a ces is very difficult to explain. frustrating place. There have It's perhaps impossible to ex-been so many thousands of plain to someone who hasn't words written about it. It is hard been through a situation like to say anything new. It is such that. All I can say is that they an emotional issue that I think treated me with courtesy and reporters have a difficult time. respect, and I think with some Cambodia was my favorite measure of affection. I treated country. The Campodians are them the same way; I think that wholly without guile. The coun­pretty much fills the definition t ryside tiself is marvelous, of friendship. I felt very close to beautiful. The people are very open, very friendly. Solidiers of 
tinct peoples. There is no com-estate, a definite and indispen­both armies are extremely hu­
parison. It is like Mexico and the sable function in society. 
mane guys. 
United States. OBSERVER: As a former edi-

Cambodia was ideal to cover 
OBSERVER: What would tor, could you comment on this because you could get to the 

you say about American press year's Observer? scene of the action whenever 
coverage in Southeast Asia? ANSON: It looks very good. 

you want to. People were pretty 
ANSON: American coverage Fr. Hesburgh says it's grownhonest and you could get to the in South Vietnam has been on ~since I was the editor and 

bottom of the story. This was the whole excell€nt. Out of · suppose an approbation like that not always the case in the rest of 
Laos, a few people have done an is the penalty of success! Ser­Southeast Asia. 
excellentjob. iously, it really has come of age. OBSERVER: What do you I think The Observer is doing an OBSERVER: You did then 

see as the purpose of the press in excellent job. I'm really aston­find differences between the a free society? ished at how fast it has grown.

various peoples in the area? 

ANSON: To tell the news as it ANSON: Ethnically and cul­is without fear or prejudice.turally they are really very dis-JournAlism ought to be a fifth 

Why is Rick Smith smiling? Join the Observer and find out for yourself. Maybe even meet him. 
-~ " ...-. 

ATTENTION STAFF 
Reorganization Meeting TONITE at 7:30 in Observer Office 
TO DISCUSS: 

News staff and news staff workshops Production staff and workshops 
Editorial Board policy 
This includes present staff a· all those' who are interested in · workina on the Observer 
them and I left them with some-~::::::~~~~==~~~~~:::::::~::::::::::~~::;-;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~
If h · )'

regret. I left friends behind and I·.­
miss them. N·D Men Treat ;yourse to austy mg OBSERVER: After the first with latest and newest styles for the college
few days did you feel any danger 
to your life? ANSON: Yes, from planes. 
Dean Peter A. Winograd. Dean of Admissions of NYU Law School, is scheduling interviews for perspective students on Thursday, Oct. 1 in 205 Business Building. Signups for appointments outside of Room 101 O'Shaultlnesy 
guy. Specializing in long hair. For appointment eall 2340811 
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES MONDAYS 
Continental Hair Stylin 

AND TUESDAYS 306 Sherland Building South Bend 
.Miss Treba and the Baron to serve you. Studied under David Hansen of Chica(io, foremost hair stylist for men. 1 
OPEN MON. THRU SAT. 
EUROPE 
If your student group, ~;ampus organization, or student government is considering any foreign travel, Uni-Travel Corp., as the agent of many Transatlantic air carriers, can arrange low-cost charter transpor­tation and land arrangements for your University group. 
Your group must have a minimum of 40 passengers consisting of only students and educational staff of your university and their immediate families. 
To offer the best travel services to your university, contact: 
\)(\\-tr•"•l 
@ 
12 pine 8treet awemp8COtt, mau. 01907 phone (6171 699-0287 
"o,.~or•''o<' 

Page 6 711E OBSERrJER Thursday, Oct. 1, 1970 
Price index goes up;farm products higher too 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -After one respite in 20 months, the wholesale price index shot up­ward again in September, paced by rising costs for farm products attributed in part to a wide­spread corn blight. 
But what was bad news for housewives who now face the prospect of further grocery price increases, cheered many of the nation's farmers. 
In quick succession: 
-The Agriculture Department reported that farm prices re­bounded from a 20 year low in the month ending Sept. 15 as rising prices for com, eggs, milk and lettuce boosted nationwide farm prices 2 per cent. 
-The Labor Department re­ported the wholesale price ln­dex increased 0.4 percent in Sep­tember, wiping out the widely heralded 0.4 per cent drop in August -the only dip in 20 months of inflation. 
While the average price farm­ers get for their products was going up 2 per cent, the whole­sale price index released by the Labor Department showed a 3.2 jump-sharpest in 18 months. 
The higher farm prices were primarily responsible for starting the wholesale index going up again, but Tre:asury Secretary David M. Kennedy said the 0.4 per cent rise 'does not affect the conclusion that the trend for the past six months is encouraging." 
In a speech to the Las Vegas Kiwanis Club, Kennedy said: 
"During the past six months~ the  per  cent,  rate  during  the  pre­ pense  of  corn  farmers  whose  
wholesale price index rose at an  ceding half year."  crops have been hit by  a blight  
annual  rate  of  lYz  per  cent,  a  Although average farm prices  that  has  cut  harvest  prospects  
substantial slowdown in the rate  climbed in the Aug. 15-Sept. 15  and caused nearly all feed grain  
of inflation compared to the 5Y2  period, they  did  so  at  the  ex- prices to rise.  

ND, SMC to vote on recess 
(Continued from page 1) 

utt:mllers in addition to on cam­pus students, he claimed. In add­ition, he said that finalized hall resident lists were not available yet and voting in the halls would require 22 different watchdog committees. 
Amy -Alsopiedy, chairman of the SMC student referendum committee, announced that only one voting machine would be used and the proposition on the machine would be modified to read "Are you in favor of a two week political recess?" The com­plete proposal will be posted outside the booth. 
She said the SMC student body will have an all-school con­vocation (assembly) today at 
4:00 in O'Laughlin Auditorium to discuss the election median­ism. 
Bill Wilka, chairman fo the Notre Dame student referendum committee, revealed that the ab­sentee ballotting for students who plan to be gone Friday would be possible by reporting 

We'd liketo stimulate 
yourvisual receptors. 
Stimulating your mind is fine. But you ought to give your eyes a few thrills, too. With a sensual Panasonic lamp. 
Like our excitatory Fluorescent Desk Lamp. That gives 2.2 watts worth of light. From a 15-watt bulb. Thanks to ar electronic gizmo that boosts the output, without killing the bulb that lays the golden rays. Another thing you don't have to worry about is glare. Because the translucent shade takes care of that. 
Or our High Intensity Lamp. It runs the gamut of light intensities as the sliding control runs up and down. From a cram-night 150 watts to a soft glow that brings out the best in the worst 
blind date. And covers every intensity in-between. Whatever your eyes crave. And has a telescopic arm that spotlights the beam wherever you want it. 
Take your eyes to the college bookstore, that repository of study aids such as Panasonic electric pencil sharpeners. And let them pick out the Panasonic lamp that turns them on. . 
After you start stimulating your visual receptors, you'll begin to see studying in a whole new light. 
to teh registrar's office today. 
Rosenthal said that a previous 
vote of the SMC faculty at their 
regular assembly that rejected 
the proposal was not binding 
since the vote was take·n on a 
general proposition not the 
specific referendum. 
In the Law School, the stu­
dent body voted 278-45 not to, 
support the proposal in an advi­
sorY ballot to their facultv. 
Krashna urges Princeton Plan 
(Continued from page 2) 
agam another Cambodia," said 
Krashna. 
However, he did not question 
the sincerity of the Academic 
Council last spring when that 
body originated the idea of a 
referendum on a fall political 
recess. 
"I think the original idea was 
made at a time of heightened 
sensibilities concerning the war 
and I think the Council shared 
these sentiments. I think that 
the Council has recognized since 
that the war has lost much of 
tliat interest therefore causing 
the Council to lose some of. its 
interest." 
Krashna cited the date of the 
referendum, tomorrow, the day 
before an away football game, as 
the "worst thing" about the 
Academic Council's rules con­
cerning the referendum. 
He said he did not realize last 
spring that October 2nd was the 
day before an away game, but he 
did not feel that the Academic 
Council scheduled this date to Jure away_ potential }'QJ;~rs. 
He did not believe that the 
university had to shut down if 
the referendum passed. "The 
operational aspects of the uni­
versity should be allowed to 
continue." 
He considered the absolute 
majority required for passage 
with the attached closing down 
of the university the "logical 
thing to do but not attractive to 
the student." 
Voting in the Administration 
Building instead of the indivi­
dual halls was not considered 
conducive to passage by Krash­
na.. 
Student government will have 
lists of various candidates 
around the country that are at­
tractive by virtue of opposition 
to the war and in other aspects.­
Dan Moore of student govern­
ment can be contacted to pro­
vide this information. 
ND-SMC THEATRE PRESENTS 
the Sea Gull 
BY ArHON CHEKHOV 

PANASONIC® 
just slightly ahead of our time. 
Oct. 16, 17, 22, 23, 24 at 8:30; Oct. 18 at 2:30. Tickets $1.50 Students, Faculty, NO-SMC Staff. Call284-4116 for information. 


NOTRE DAME AND IT.MARY'S StuDENTS You're Invited NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOO OPEN HOUSE Saturday, October 3, 1970 Law Building 9:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. E.DT Law As A Profe£Sion LSAT Exam -­What It Means, What It Is How To Take It Legal Educational Opportunities In The U.S. Program At Notre Dame Law School Notre Dame's Admission and Scholastic Policy Legal Educational Methods Career Opportunities In Law  

Notre Dame -Saint Mary's 
THEATRE presents 
70 -71 SEASON 
the Sea Gull by Anton Chekhov .... Oct. 16,17,18,22,23,24 
Free IPEEIJ fiEADINA Lessons! 
i ..

the Hostage 
by Brendan Behan .... Dec. 4,5,6,10,11,12 
TODAY 

the Little Foxes 
4~ 6 & 8 PM 

by Lilian Hellman .... Feb. 19,20,21,25,26,27 
HOLIDAY INN 

Oliver! 
U.S. 31 North at Tollway by Lionel Bart .... May 1 ,2,6,7 ,8 
I I Thursday Only I i
» ~ LaFortune Student Center
~11 subscription price ....$7 .00 l~~ 

Room JC Main Floor

:::: (Students, faculty, ND-SM;C employees .... $5.00) ;:;~ 
N I
• •* 4, 6 & 8 PM . 8
ll;l for further information call_284-4176 ~~ :::: l ::::: \ E~111ud . READING DYNAMICS
I ~ I • 
l:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.-:::::::::::::*::::~~!~:::~:;:::;:;:::::::::-.:::~::::::::::::::::::::::::1 ·-----------------------------· 
Thursday, Oct. 1, 1970 
Niles is along way from ND. The inventive staff of The Observer delivers its product in unique ways. News of the re-appearance of The Observer brought great joy and spontaneous celebration in many parts of the US. Well known people appeared in strange places to welcome back The Observer. 

Page 7 
rts 
TOIIOIIIIOW 
OPEN 6:00 
"THE U.S. CUSTOMS BUREAU BARRED IT AS OBSCENE! READERS FOUND IT SHOCKING AND SCANDALOUS! AND NOW, FOR ANYONE OVER 17, IT IS A MOVIE!"-TIMEMAGAZINE 
HiNRY'MiLli'R:s 8JIHI 11,/IIIIIIJHI!rn 
PLUS "MEDIUM COOL" 
NEXT D. H. Lawrence 
7:40 (only) 
' 
t 
I 
I t• 

Page 8 
7lfJf ~Jlr~~~~----------------------------------Th_u_rs_d_av_._o_ct_._I,_I_9_7o_ 
A co-captain·that .leads by example 
by Terry Shields we're on the strong side of the "When you work with these Observer Sports Editor line then we have all opportunity people you get to see the other to play a more rover type of side of life. Most of them really 
" 
Four years can do a lot to position." 
get tough breaks in life and they
people. Usually they change Before coming to Notre Dame 
can really use the help for their
somewhat, sometimes for the Kelly was an offensive halfback. 
kids or just some cheering up for
better. For Tim Kelly this change In fact, he had never before themselves." 
was a tremendous "growing up" played on defense. He cites form-
After graduation Tim is still a 
er defensive coach John Ray as a
period. . little undecided as to what he
Kelly realized this change JUSt help in learning how to play this 
may do for a career. "The main
this season when it finally struck foreign position. "Coach Ray 
thing on my mind is this season
home that he was the co-captain taught me the basic things to look 
and then graduating nest May. I
of Notre Dame's Fighting Irish. for and, at the same time, the 
would consider playing profes­
He realized just what direction his upperclassmen pointed things out 
sional football if I am good
life must take. to me. Bob Kuechenberg and 
enough to get drafted. If not,
"When I was a freshman and Bobo Olson were particularly 
then I may try and get into law
sophomore I was a little on the helpful. We always work as a unit 
school. I've also considered a
'spirited side' but last year I though. That's the only way our 
possible career in teaching and
settled down some. Now I feel type of defense can function." . 
coaching."

that every act I perform I must do Speaking from a captain's 
When Tim mentions that this
so with Notre Damein mind. I'm point of view, Tim feels that this 
season is the first thought on his
•a-representative of the school, year's defense has made up for 
mind, he was not speaking idly.
therefore my conduct should re-the loss of Olson with an added 
"I've never played on an un­
fleet what Notre Dame means." amount of speed. "Both Eric 
defeated team and I sure would
The six-foot senior from Patton and Jimmy Wright are 
like to try it once. This is my last
Springfield, Ohio, sees the po_si-quicker than last season's line­chance in coll~ge."
tion of captain as a very spectal backers. This makes our pass de­
Tim considers his head coach,
office. "I'm following some pret-fense stronger. Of course, we miss 
Ara Parseghian, a tremendous
ty impressive people when I as-Bobo somewhat. Nobody could 
inspiration to himself and to the
sume the role of captain. Jim 'tackle' like that man." 
whole team. "There is something
Lynch and Bob Olson are t:-vo Kelly feels there is a special 
about that man that excites you.
very fine men and equally fme mental and psychological out­
He's dynamic and he gets his
athletes. I must try to measure up look necessary to play defense. 
point across. If he wasn't here,
to these high standards. Also, I "You have to bt~ serious. You've 
somehow Notre Dame would be a
must represent the team if any got to be ready to play when you 
little different. I don't know.
problem arises or if the players go out on that field. You must 
Maybe it's just Notre Dame itself
want someone to speak with the want to be tough and determined. 
that inspires you. Truthfully it
coach." Look at Dick Butkus! He's the 
seems like we can never be beat­
Besides assuming the impor-ultimate linebacker. I'm not say­en. Even in the games when we've Tim Kelly has never played on an undefeated team and accordingtant role of captain, Tim must ing that I think ne's the greatest been down by a few touchdowns to the senior linebacker he would like to give it a shot this year.
~so concentrate on his position person in the world, but as a 
in the last minutes, no one seems
of outside linebacker. "It's a faotball player, he has to be the Judging by the performance of the Irish in last Saturday's game
to realize that we can be beaten.
pretty tough position because it best. That's wher•~ it's at." Kelly's feeling is spreading to the rest of the team. 
We just don't accept it. Call it the
requires a lot of agility. We are Off the playing field this Kelly made one of the bigger p I ays in the contest when he
Notre Dame mystique, call it
responsible for 'containing' on "tough" attitude subsides in the stopped Purdue quarterback Chuck Piebes on a fourth and two
Parseghian. That's just the way
running plays (force the play into boyish-faced lin~backer. He help­situation on the Irish 18 yard line. This play stemmed the tide and
we feel."

the middle) and cover the flat ed some of the mtgra~t workers m Purdue never seriously threatened again until the game was out of
Tim Kelly, co-captain o~ Notre 
area (hash marks to sidelines) up South Bend last wmter and he reach.
Dame, has grown up a lot m four 
to ten yards deep on passes. If plans to do the same this year. 
short years.

.......................................,
r 
Will we beat State Satu rdayl i Two 'ame statistics 
INDIVIDUAL SCORING TEAM STATISTICS
JWill Observer publish TomorrowlJ 
TD Kick Play FG TP 
ND OPP• Hempel .......... 11-11 2-2 17 
Total Offense .. ... ............. 1091 394

:.....••..••...............................• • Allan .............. 4 24 
Total Plays.. ............... 195 127

Theismann .... 1 6 
Yards per Play .......... 5.5 3.1

Barz .............. 1 6 
Yards per Game ....... 545.5 197.0

Parker .......... 1 6 
Dewan .......... 1 6 
Net Yards Rushing. _ 659 230 Gatewood ...... 3 18 
Attempts ................. ... 151 63 Yards per Rush .......... 4.3 3.6

INDIVIDUAL PUNTING 
Yards per Game ........ 329.5 115.0

NO. YDS AVG LONG Yoder 4 161 40.2 43 
············ '11 Lf}·G ltj Net Yards Passing· ........ 432 166 
Roolf 

Attempts ............... 44 64 RUSHING 
Completions ................ 25 17 TC YDS AVG TD Long 
Completion Pet. ........ . .568 .266 Allan ........... 32 134 4.1 4 12 Had Intercepted ........ 1 4 Gulyas .........., 25 126 5.0 0 21 
Touchdown Passes .... 4 0 Theismann .. 32 63 U) 1 13 Yards per Attempt .... 9.8 2.5 Barz ....... 22 101 4.5 0 14 
Yds. per Completion . 17.2 9.7 Minnix .......... 14 66 4.7 0 15 
Yards per Game 216 83 Cieszkowski 6 29 4.8 0 11 Parker .......... 6 102 17.0 1 63 Punt Return Yards .. 12 132 Dewan .......... 2 5 2.5 1 4 No. of Returns ...... 3 5 Steenberge .. 4 8 2.0 0 3 Avg. per Return ........ 4.0 26.4 Nightingale 3 6 2.0 0 3 
Johnson . .... 3 16 5.3 0 6 Punts-Number 5 9 Gallagher 1 3 3.0 0 3 Yards Punting ... 202 409 PASSING Avg. per Punt ... 40.4 45.4 
No Comp Int Yds TD Pet Had Blocked .. 0 0 Theismann 43 24 1 404 4 .558 
Penalties ......... 15 7

Steenberge 1 1 0 28 0 1.000 Yards Penalized 138 73 RECEIVING PC YDS AVG TD Long Fumbles (Lost) ... 5(4) 8(3) Gatewood 19 303 15.9 3 39 Barz 2 31 15.5 1 17 
Total First Downs 59 28 

Allan .. . 1 12 12.0 0 12 Rushing ... 36 13 Trapp . 1 3 3.0 0 3 Passing . 20 10 Creaney 1 55 55.0 0 55 Penalty .............. 3 5 
Tereschuk 1 28 28.0 0 28
....,,, 

Ron Curl was given All­America billing before the se\1­son started as a defensive tackle. However, he has been one of the many Spartans who htts been vitimized by injury. Curl is out for the season with a broken arm. 













