
..v_o_L_._,v_.;..N_o_._1_1~3-------------...;;;S.:..c~n...:'i...:ng~thc Notre f)amc a/1(1 Saint Mart.'.~ College ('ol/11111111ilt' TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 1970 
SLC clashes on Trustees report 

lives of students on campus. liemeeting. Facccnda explained the Board that they would not be limitations. 
by Bill Carter denounced their suggestion of
rationale behind the call for exercising their responsibility if Student Representative Rich Last night's Student Life restructuring the Hall Life Board they allowed for the possibility 
Meckel criticized the Trustees' limited extension of parietal comments in defending their hours as "another lollipop"Council meeting resulted in a as a necessary change in order to of all night hours at the offered to the students to trydirect confrontation between facilitate work and eliminate the University. actions on the grounds that they and keep them a little satisfied.
students and the faculty-admini­problem of a legislative status "They felt some limitation wished to preserve the "tradi­Director of Student Housing,stration members of the council for the Board by raising it to an was called for and they tried to tions" of the University. 
"It makes no difference if Fr. Edgar Whelan declared his
over the issue of the Board of act rninistrative level. create one beyond which there Trustees' response to the SLC Faccenda was also asked to would be no serious argument," they make a 2 a.m. limit, or a I strong objection to the notion of report on Hall Life. The split explain the reason for the Faccenda said. He then conced­a.m. limit, or a 12 a.m. limit, it complete hall autonomy after 
began with a motion by Student Trustees limitation of hours. He ed there was of ~course serious is the reasons behind the limita­explaining that he had believed Body President Vave Krashna to said it was the feelinll of tbe araument even Qainst these tion that are offensive. The the Hall Life report had only called for student self-determina­
reject the Trustees report, and 'tradition' of the University ap­tion in the area of parietal hours.
hy the meeting's close had come pear more Important than the close to being reduced to a individual students to the Board "I don't believe the halls have demonstrated responsibility with
charge by the student represen­of Trustees." 
Student Representative Ed the freedom that they weretatives that the Council could Roickle charged that the Trus­given last year. There seems to
not work in the best interests of the students since two-thirds of tees knew nothing about the (Continued on page 6) the members were people who had no contact with student life_ 
Krashna's motion came imme­diately after Chairman James 
South quad candidates 
Massey had opened the floor to discussion of Board of Trustees' 

·accelerate campaigns 
Chairman Stepan's letter to the SLC outlining the Trustees re• Holt remarked that black
• by Steve Hoffman and Sean Hill
ponse to the issues of drinkiq students arc "presently harbor­on campus, hall staffs and in The five South Quad candi­ing a feeling of dissatisfaction particular parietal hours. Krash­dates contesting for that dis­with the academic and social 
na moved that the council reject trict':; two seats on the SLC atmosphere of Notre Dame." To the alteration of the structure of accelerated the pace of their remedy this situation, Holt the flail Life Board and the campaigns yesterday, and elabor­emphasized that he believes he determination of parietal houn ated upon specific campus prob­could provide an insight and limitations. lems and issues. understanding to the SLC re­
The motion was followed by a Lyons Hall Senator John garding the concerns of black series of questions directed to Mateja revealed the primary students on a first-hand basis. lie Mr. l'hilip Facccnda, Special force behind his candidacy as a contended that such a situation Assistant to the President. who desire to "propel the University would be preferable to the had hccn present at the Trustees' into a new era, an era which present system wherein black 
must see vast improvements in problems arc studied from out­the quality of student life." side sources.

North quad contest continues 
Mateja observed that the cur­Chris Ottcnweller, a Lyons rent stat us of the Stay Hall II all Junior, stated yesterday"It is necessary for the SLC to they think is right for the halls. 
System plays a key role in his that the SLC must move beyondhy Don Ruane and Floyd Kezele be brought hack to the stu­Flavin docs not think aca­campaign. 
the position of merely serving asSLC candidate, Pete Collins dents," emphasized Steve Flavin demic credit should be given for 'The Stay Hall System must a "recommending council." liecontinued his campaign yester­late yesterday afternoon as he ROTC courses unless the courses be reevaluated, for the commun­maintained that the existingday, calling for the "individual continued to campaign for one are annually reviewed by the ity cannot be furthered if people system stifles any effectivefreedom" of students. According of the two SLC scats open to the Academic Council and taught by are thrown out of the hall to implementation of coeducation,to Collins, the responsibility for north quad. Flavin is running an accredited professor. He also make room for incoming fresh­academic reform, minorityfinal decisions should be the because he feels that students said that present ROTC courses men. The best solution is to recruitment, or hall autonomy.
student's when the issue docs have an obligation to be involved should be classified as "extra­allow all upperclassmen to move Ottenwcller proposed that thenot affect the entire university. in the decision making processes curricular." Minority recruit­off campus, and to grant them SLC become an autonomousFor this reason, Collins would concerning their lives. To in­ment should become a university this permission early in the year group with a final say on studentlike to sec the SLC dccen tralizcd crease this involvement, Flavin "priority" is Flavin's opinion. 
so that decent accomodations life.
to the point where only major believes students should be re­He added that attempts should 
may be found." 
"The SLC must play a largeissues would be settled. presented by 50% of the Council be made to recruit from all Dillon Hall freshman George part in all student-oriented pro­Collins subscribes to Dr. Willis members. lie also recommended minority groups and also non­Holt reiterated his feeling that grams, sppeding up the processNutting's concept of a university that meetings of the council Catholics. He feels that the black representation on the SLC of implementation, and event­"free city." favoring university offering limited
as a Also should be moved into the halls is a is urgent and essential in view of ually moving toward studenthall autonomy, Collins believes and to a time conducive t~ liberal education because of its increased black enrollment. 
determinism of student life.
that a "spirit of openness" will student attendance. (Continued on page 6) (Continued on page 2)
exist when students who live Flavin spoke next on the together can determine how off-campus situation. He said Interviews plannedthey want to live. Collins re­that there is a "definite need'' 
•

iterated his belief that faculty for the university to "relate" to and administrators should he the off-campus student. "Too 
Augusta opens to sen1ors 
"advisors," not "dictators." lie much emphasis is placed on added that his view of the Board campus life," commented Flavin itory. Girls volunteering to live director. Sister Mary Elizabeth of Trustees is similar. liesfe cIs as he explained why the uuni­by Mary Chris Morrison in Augusta Hall will be inter­Griffin, member of the St. 
they have a "paternalistic atti­versity has a "limited point of Augusta llall, currently a viewed Wednesday evening by a Mary's faculty will live with the tude," and have "no place in view" in this area. Flavin stated convent on the St. Mary's panel consisting of' Father Ray­girls and serve as their advisor, dictating how students should tl1at any sophomore, junior or campus, will house thirty-eight monde Runde, Mrs. Elizabeth assisting them with their pro­live." Collins also said that the senior should be able to move senior girls for the 1970-71 Do. c, and Sister Mary Elizabeth grams. hoard's recent statement on off-camp us. school year, according to Sister Griffin. Those girls accepted by Sister Immaculata stated that parietals "undercut hall autono­Flavin briefly commented on M. Immaculata, Dean of Stu­the reviewing board will have the she will listen to proposals for my" by setting hours, having Fr. coeducation, hall autonomy, dents. Approximately half of the opportunity to select rooms in new means of hall government llesburgh name the Hall Life ROTC and minority problems. building will he used by the Augusta Hall during the regular to replace the regular hall staff Board and asking Fr. Charles Regarding coeducation, Flavin seniors, while the rest will room selection for seniors, and hall director method of the Mc('arragher, Vice President of feels that the admissions office continue to serve as living Thursday night. other dormitories. She said that 
Student Affairs, to set additional should begin to accept "tenta­quarters for semi-retired reli­Although the hall will be such a small number of academ­directives. tive applications" from women gious. The college will be renting subject to all the regular campus ically oriented girls would he Collins concluded by declar­this summer. However, he be­the building from the Sisters of ·regulations, Sister Immaculata able to live as a community ing himself a "major proponent lieves that coeducation will not the Holy Cross. stated that it is hoped that the rather than simply "a group in a of coeducation." lie said that "if come to Notre Dame for another The entire venture has been group of women living there dormitory". Thus she felt that th.ey would be able to detcrmmc
girls arc considered human year. In the area of hall au­termed an "academic commun­would be sufficiently mature new ways to govern themselves,
beings, they should he around, onomy, Flavin is a "firm be­ity". In keeping with this aspect and academically oriented to and not talked about in terms of liever." He said that it is of the plan, Augusta Hall will devise new means to govern to maintain house quiet, to take care of checking in and out
the Notre Dame-St. Mary's important for the halls to let the not be considered in exactly the themselves. For example, the ratio." Board of Trustees know what same light as a regular dorm-girls might not have a hall (Continued on page 2) 
THE OBSERIJER. TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 1870
PAGE 2 

Stress student action 


(Continued from page 1) 
"It is essential that students 
be considered important, and 
that they feel themselves 
listened to through the SLC." 
Former Freshman Class Pres­
ident and Morissey Hall sopho­
more Ray Connell placed strong 
emphasis on the importance of 
communication between the 
SLC and the students. 
"The SLC is not just a 
legislativt: body, i.JUt i11cludes a 
great deal of compromising and 
education between the SLC 
members, and more specifically 
between the Board of Trustees 
and the students. 
"When students elect SLC 
members, they vote for persons 
who can adequately represent 
them in this education and 
compromise process, and who 
can thereby affect the basic 
problems here at the University. 
I feel I have the time, energy, 
and experience necessary to 
adequately effect needed 
changes." ____ 

To implement what he con­siders to be appropriate channels of communication, Connell pro­posed that "SLC members meet with the Hall Councils during the year to discuss those issues urgent to the hall residents, and refer these issues back to the SLC body." 
Dillon Hall Senator Mark Zimmerman noted several con­cerns he feels need to be resolved through the SLC. 
Operating on the premise that the SLC has been burdened by a somewhat irregular structure and function, Zimmerman called for an increase in student represent­ation on the Board since "stu­dents will be able to bring to focus specific issues sometimes ignored." 
Contending that the SLC has been limited to a great degree in its areas of concern, he stated that it must come to grips with the basic issues, including the "implemenation of coeducation, increased hall autonomy, and continuation of the present spirit of academic reform." 
Addressing himself to what he 
considers to be the failure of 
RFather Hesburgh to take an active part in the SLC, he urged an in-depth study of the f'hancellor-Presiden t stru ture. 
"This structure could provide tor the presence of the Univer­sity head on the SLC, and facilitate better communication, and faster implementation of legislation." 
Dick Tarrier, former Hall Alumni Senator and SLC candi­date in the off-campus district, outlined what he considered the proper direction for the su· next year. 

Terrier said that "a critical point has now been reached by the SLC, it is time for it to decide whether it is a legislating or recommending body." He believes that the SLC should be a genuine legislating body, in­dependent of the Trustees and the administration. 
As an example of the con­

"The Hall Presidents Council, In sympathy with the original Student Life Council resolution Ctllling for individual halls to determine their own parietal hours, rejects the recent decision ofthe Board of Trustees. 
"This question concerning parietal hours has consumed more than eight months of the SLC's, the Board's and our raluable time; we, the under­1igned members of the Hall 
Presidents Council, support the right of the halls to assume the responsibility ofestablishing visi­
lotion privileges in accordance with the consensus ofindividuals within their respective halls." 
Student Body Vice President Mark Winings, present at the HPC meeting last night, refuted claims by some members of the Executift coordinator Ron Mastriana and HPC chairman Tom Board of Trustees that the Suddes with the An Toastal kissing trophy students sitting on the SLC do 
Carswell to seek Florida Senate seat 

MIAMI (UPI) -Judge G. Har­rold Carswell, President Nixon's second rejected nominee for the Supreme Court, announced yes­terday he will run for the U.S. Senate on a platform of "re­sponisble, conservative" govern­


1 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~organizational planning meet1ng
1-·will still be held at 7:00 p.m.,
A p p I icat;ons for S M C 
and its purpose will be to finalize plans for the May I 
education day. Spokesmen
StUdent G0 Vt. P0 S I•t ,. 0 n$ emphasized that much work 
SB Secretary and Treasurer remains to be done in creating a
Academic Affairs 
Put name, phone number and position desired in box at hall desk. Deadline --Monday, Call 232-2804 April 27 
-----------------------------~----------­
CHICAGO 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) s44-7soo.ziP: 60611 
Add fifty cents lor shipping plus sales tax where applicable 
SSO Oirector and Commissioners 
SSO Controller Health Board Space Allocating Committee Research Committee (Sex Education, Off-campus, Drugs) 
fused role of this year's SLC Terrier pointed to the recent amendemnt by the Board of Trustees of the SLC's decision on parietal hours. He said that if the Board of Trustees or anyone else on campus cna overrule the decisions of the SLC then "the SLC has become as useless as the Student Senate and should give up." 

Jim O'Gorman -North Quad Steve Flavin -North Quad 
HCP rejects decision .. 
by Steve Lazar right to impose restrictions. 
f. bl" . · ·t· f The statement signed by 20:
The ust pu IC rejec 1011 0 ' 
the Board of Trustees recent members of the 21 member · · · · t 1 h Council reflects the pres1·dents'
hnutahons on pane a ours , 
· 1t th H 11 deep disillusionment w1·th the
came last mg 1 as e a Presidents Council drew up a Board's decision to ignore the statement that favored indivi-parietal hour recommendations dual hall determination of parie-of the Student Life Council. tal rules and rejected the Board's The presidents' statement reads: 
ment. "This action is not taken lightly or impulisvely," said the 50 year old jurist, rejected by the Senate 13 days ago in the culmination of a bitter fight over his qualifications. Carswell said he would resign from the U.S. Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals to conduct his campaign as a Republican for the seat being vacated by retiring Democratic Sen. Spessard Hol­land. Carswell made the announce­ment at a news conference in Miami, flanked by Gov. Claude Kirk, Lt. Gov. Ray Osborne and Sen. Edward Gurney, all Repub­licans. Carswell will have a powerful foe in the September GOP primary-Rep. William C. Cramer of St. Petersburg. 0 sborne had earlier announced he would run against Cramer, but he said "I'm step­ping aside for this man. It will unify our party."It will be Carswell's first 

political campaign since the 1948 outing that helped wreck his chances of a seat on the highest court in the land. 
Carswell's nomination ot the court appeared headed for rela­tively little trouble until it was revealed that during a campaign for the state legislature in his hometown of Irwinton, Ga., he announced that "I believe segre­gation of the races is proper and the only and correct way of life in our states. I have always so believed and I shall always so 
act. 
"I yield to no man ... in the firm, vigorous belief in the principles of white supremacy and I shall always be so governed." 
Meeting change 

The meeting for planning· events for Free City Day has been moved from the Library Lounge to the Second Floor LaFortune Student Center. The . 
true Christian educational com-
Curriculum Committee Library Committee Teacher Education Committee 
* 11\1 Sl 1'\ STI 1{1 :)*

Admission & Scholarship Committee ll :\C. ALTI C Academic Standing Committee L:\\Sl\(;. .1\'( ( o/ur l'l Sets .II ( ZOSS PRODUCTION 
not represent student, opm_IOn. Referrmg to the Board s panetal
h d . . w· . "d "I 
ours eclSlon . .mmgs Sal : really consider It Intolerable. Fr. 
. 

Hesburgh calls the SLC the vmce of the student body, but the Trustees have chosen to 1gnon~ it." 
SLC student member Guy De Sapio explained that he felt the Trustees imposed restrictions on visitation hours for reasons of morals and student protection. 
In drawing up their statement the hall presidents rejected this rationale and gave first priority to hall determination on parietal hour regulations. The rationale of the HPC is that the halls, being the most integral part of the student community, are best suited to make rules governing halllife. 
Bruce Johnson, President of Lyons Hall, said of the Trustees decision: "I think they know perfectly clear what we want and they're perfectly clear that they don't want us to have it." 
According to Ron Mastriana, Executive Coordinator of the HPC, the Board's text, which includes the parietal hours deci­sion, has been found "unclear in meaning" in at least three places 
by Fr. Charles McCarragher, Vice President for Student Af­fairs. 
Other objections of the HPC centered around the approach the Trustees' ruling took. 
The President of Morrissey Hall, John Barkett, said: "'They're missing the boat ­taking the wrong approach. I think they're taking the com­pletely wrong approach by try­ing to enforce our lives." 
Mike Nevens of Cavanaugh Hall said the students of his dorm "felt they were treating us like little kids." 
Chairman of the HPC, Tom Suddes, said the Trustees deci­sion "is coming at us back­asswards." 

Something speciol 
(Continued from page 1) 
procedures, etc. 
Sister Immaculata also en­visions that Augusta Hall can be something special, a truly aca­demic community. She hopes that the girls and their programs, perhaps fostering closer relation­ships with faculty members by having dinners or gabfests in the hall, will exert an influence on the rest of the student body. 
The section of Augusta, lo­cated northwest of Holy Cross Hall, which the girls will occupy includes four floors. The first two floors are composed of lounges, study space, a library, a laundry, and a kitchenette. The third and fourth floors are the living quarters-2 triples, 4 doubles, and 24 singles, arranged in alcove groupings. The prices of the rooms are the same as Holy Cross dormitory, and the floor plans are posted along with those of all the other dorms in the basement of Le Mans. 

TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 19_10________________:ffl:..=.:_.:::'£::___.::Q:'_:'&:::~:::'ER~~fla~~--------------------~P~A~GE=-.::!....3 
Nixon orders more troop pullouts 
food, clothing and medicines; .,-----------------------------~:...:::...:...::.-=.:_.:....:...:~=-::....::.::..:..:..~...:..:..:...:...:;.:_L____________-l 
SAN CLEMENTE, Calif. (UP!) -President Nixon last night ordered a 150,000 man pullout of U.S. troops from South Vietnam within the next year and promised "with confi­dence" that all American troops will he withdrawn in an unspcci-


Hunnybun speaks 

tomorrow 
Miss Carol llunnybun, ad­

ministrator for lite Pontt"ft"cal 
Mission in Jerusalent, wt"ll speak 

at St. Mary's College tomorrow 
night on "Voluntary Services in 
Israel" at 8 p.m. in Carroll Hall 
of the Madeleva Memorial Build­
ing. Sponsored by the Depart­
ment of Religious Studies, the 
talk is open to the public 
without charge. 
Born and educated in En­

gland, Miss Hunnybun worked in 
the Inns of Court in London 
before joining a Grail team in 
1963 to work in Beirut. In 1966 she was appointed admt·n1·strator of the Pontifical M1·551·0 n offt"ce in J erusalern. 
Founded in 1949 by Monst·g­nor Montini, now Ht"s Holt·ness Pope Paul VI, lite Pont1·r1·cal Mission is charged w1"th provt"d­ing immediate aid and long-range, self-help programs for Palestinian refugees·. s1·nce the renewed hostilities 1·n 1967, the Mission has demonstrated ·ts
1 

effectivcness and flext"bt"lt.ty by sueh programs as: distributing 





r~~~~~;~;~~~r:~f~~:l ~~~si~~~
ministering the distribution of funds. 


CHICAGO 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500· ZIP: 60611 
Please acid sales fax where applicable 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester excert vacallons by students of the Uni· versity . of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purcloased for $8 from the Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
fied future. 
"We finally have in sight the just peace we arc seeking," Nixon said in a nationwide report on Vietnam. 
"We can now say with confi­
dence that pacification is suc­
ceeding. We can say with 
confidence that the South Viet­namese can develop the capa­hility for their own defense. We can say with confidence that all 
American combat forces can and 
will be withdrawn," Nixon said. 
The 150,000 man reduction would reduce U.S. troop levels
84 0 bI V. 
00
in Soul 1 tetnam to 2 ' Y M 197 1 0 f h
ay • · The timing t e additional withdrawals was left purposely vague and will be determined by continual re­assments of the military and diplomatic situation. 
According to White House 
officials familiar with the Presi­dent's thinking, the rate of U.S. troop withdrawals would remain virtually the same as it has been since last December -approxi­mately 12,000 men per month. The officials said the advantage of announcing the larger with­drawal figure over a longer period of time was that it put the government of President Nguyen Van Thieu on notice of America's intentions. 
The officials said the Ameri­
can pullback possibly would be 
accompanied by minor reduc­
lions in the troop commitments 
of the five U.S. and South 
Vietnamese allies in Vietnam. 
The new announcement 

.I...G.,,M,,,,,,,,,I ~wo new Chevelle-s at two new lower prices. 
Chevelle 4-Door Sedan 


$148*1ess 
than our previous lowest priced 4-door. 



$147*1ess 
than our previous lowest priced hardtop. Now it's America's lowest priced mid-size hardtop. 
We took America's best selling mid­size car. Then, added two new lower priced models, including a Sport Coupe that's priced Jess than any other mid-size hardtop you can buy. 
Still, they both have Chevelle's smart new grille for 1970. And Chevelle's newly styled Body by Fisher. And Chevelle's Full Coil suspension with custom fitted springs at each wheel. And Chevelle's 
means that by May, 1971, a June 8, 1969, during his meeting 
dress, he said: "a fair political

total of 265,000 U.S. troops will with President Thieu on Midway 
solution should reflect the exist­

have been pulled out of South Island. 
ing relationship of political

Vietnam since President Nixon And in what appeared to be a 
forces."

ordered the-initial cutback on significant portion of his ad-

SMC Trustees meet 
St. Mary's College Board of 
Trustees met last weekend to 
determein policies on finance, 
.
develop t Stud nt aff I s 
men , ·· e a r , 
t. 1 1· ·
d ed
an uca tona po lctes. 
According to Dr. Jack Detz­
ler, first vice-president and pro­
vost, the administration will 
issue a news release explaining
the Trustees' decisions on co-education, the impending cafeteria staff students' contract, and other issues presented to the finance, educational policy, and student affairs commjttees. This statement will be released tomorrow. 
Mr. Edwin Recker, vice-pres­ident for development, an­nounced plans passed by the Board yesterday. 
With its top priority as 
.
1"student aid and faculty develop­
,
ment Recker revealed plans for rennovation of the present science facilities with expansion or a new building. Neither of these buildings will be financed by any selling of present SMC property.
A d" h h .
ccor mg to t e c emtstryd
epartmcnt report, expansion is 
.,_ . f . . 
necessary . .,xpanston o extstmg 1aboratory lockers and labora­tory space for teaching advanced 
lab courses or undergraduate 

wide-stance chassis design, sic! -guard beams in the doors, cargo-guard luggage compartment, bias belted ply tires. 
Lower priced they are, by as much as $148. But lower priced looking and feel­ing they aren't. 
Which will get us no love notes from the competition. But maybe it will from you. 
Putting you first, keeps us first. 
research dominates their list of needs. They believe that this plan is more feasible than 
extensive collaboration with ND, "which would result in sending our excess students or our 
cj1emistry  majors  to  Notre  
Dame."  
"This kind  of  solutt.on  is  

apparently based on the assump­lion that the Chemistry Depart­ment of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's duplicate each others' efforts," it continued. "We believe this assumption to be erroneous in that the primary objective of the Chemistry Department at Saint Mary's is education of undergraduates while that of the Department at Notre Dame is education of graduates." 
Trustees also considered expansion of the liibrary. 
"Many of our students do use the Notre Dame library now," claimed the library report, "but this is no solution to the problem. To begin with Saint Mary's College library has 1123 resident students who need library facilities on this campus." (Presently the library seats 228 and houses 10'7,000 books.) .
" 1 N I> -' l"b · 
A so otre arne s 1 rarv IS
geared to Notre Dame's needs 


•Based on manufacturer's sug­
gested retail prices. including 
federal excise tax und suggested dealer new cur prepurulion 
churgcs. 
and does not meet the needs of many of its own students and so Saint Mary's College Library is used by a surprisingly great number of Notre Dame men who cannot find what they need in their own library, but can find it in ours." 
Trustees also discussed the Rome program and progress of pass/fail. Mainly the Rome dis­cussion centered on fees and tuition, $3.250. 

1hey also decided to put the professional semester (student teaching) on the pass/fail system since "education courses within the professional semester are of a subjective natme, necessitating critical evaluation and practical application on the part of the student, and therefore difficult to grade." 
Partially Furnished Apartment 


AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER 
AT  1/3  OFF  REGULAR  
RENT. CALL  8152  OR  
233-9648  


PAGE 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. De SAPIO, Puhlishcr 
DAVID C. BACH, Editor NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 


As most of the student body is aware by now, the Board of Trustees released their rationale for extending parietal hours last ~eek. Taking all they said into consideration I proposed a. motion concerning their statement to the SLC on Monday. The motton read something like the following: that I would like to reaffir_m the original proposal presented to the Board of Trustees, thus rejectmg the action of the Trustees. This original proposal called for hall governments to set up their own hours under the jurisdiction of the present hall life board. This would not preclude however, the tdea of having the present board renovated to a wider membership. 
As throughout the campaign as a candidate, I stressed the right of halls to determine their own hours under the present halllif e board. Now as a student leader I have taken a new look at hall autonomy in conjunction with this rationale and can only agree even more with my original idea. Many people have contended that the original SLC proposal was not dealing with the issue of hall autonomy. However, this is exactly what it deals with, for hall autonomy is the idea that each hall think and act in accordance with its own ideas, in accordance with the guidelines of the present hall life board. 
My position then is one of not only affirming the idea of hall autonomy, but also one questioning which body is the authentic voice for hall autonomy. On the one hand you have Fr. Hesburgh issuing his one man IS minute rule, while on the other hand you have the passing of the parietal bill through the system, (i.e., the SLC) to the Board of Trustees with limited consultation by Fr. Hesburgh. To really confuse this already confused issue, Fr. Hesburgh has been quoted as saying he sees the SLC as the authentic voice of the university community (see Catholic Digest Oct., 1969). 
I believe that through the student government structure I am able to sense how students feel, and I am afraid that many students have been placated by the additional hours granted without taking into consideration the conditions and limits under which they were granted. The conditions being that a larger hall life board be set up (which I am not necessarily contesting) with the members being appointed by Fr. Hesburgh (which I am contesting). 
It's good to say that students have the responsibility to govern halls at NO, but it's another matter entirely for them to actually put this into practice. Some halls have done so, and very successfully. The Trustees say they have yet to see this responsibility. I question the knowledge of this group on the state of student responsiiJility, when thiw group is geographically and chronologically removed from the University. How can they justly say they will know when the students will have shown enough responsibility to warrant hall autonomy as it is envisioned? I firmly believe students have shown they can handle the necessary responsibility and should be able to continue to do so. Student responsibility must come to the forefront. If it does not we may very well be coerced into the immediate past of having student life governed for us. 
Letters: 
Editor: queen contests cannot "accomo­considered, though, gentlemen. 
I would like to take issue with date such criteria," we should In future contests, they may the statements of Messrs. Dow­drop them. require contestants to submit a dall and Metzger. First of all, physician's statement of their The Observer is not sponsoring How do you intend to meas­temperature. That's the best the Grand Prix Queen Contest; ure concern, intelligence, and they can do. If you gentlemen 
the Student Union Social Com­"notable achievements in signifi­can come up with a device to mission is. They will select the cant activities?" Who is to say measure concern, intelligence, six finalists, and leave the who is more concerned, more human warmth, and "notable 
electing of the Queen up to the intelligent, or has greater notable achievements in significant acti­student body. achievements in significant acti­vities," please tell us. Until then, You say that you find these vities?" This last the most we'll just have to make do. So queen contests degrading, that keep those cards and letter
delightfully nebulous statement 
only facial features are con­I have yet encountered. What coming in, folks, to Grand Prix sidered. You suggest that the criteria do you suggest to meas­Queen Contest, Box 427, Notre queen be selected on the basis of ure human warmth? Is whoever Dame. 
"intelligence, human warmth, a has the highest fever the day of Sincerely, concern for fellow beings, and the contest to be declared the Thomas F. Taylor notable achievements in signifi­winner? cant activities." You end your criticism by saying that if the Your suggestions are .being 
Executive Editor: Dave Features Editor: T.C. Treanor The opinions expressed in the 
Stauffer Photography Editor: Mike editorials, news analyses, and Business Mgr.: Bruce Rieck Murphy 
columns of THE OBSERVER are Campus Editor: Glen Corso Night Editors: Jim Graif, Patty solely those of the authors and News Editor: Steve Hoffman Lipscomb 
editors of THE OBSERVER and SMC News Editor: Jeanne Layout: Ann Conway, Ann 
do not necessarily reflect the Sweeney Therese Darin, Jeanne Sweeney views of St. Mary's College, the Associate Editors: Cliff Win­
Headliner: Jim Graif, Rich University of Notre Dame, their trade, Ann Conway Smith 
administration, faculty, or Sports Editor: Terry Shields 
student bodies. 

"Why sure there•s pollution at Notre Dame! .. 


economy of death 
=====~~=:===~~~~==:=:~~?~=~~~=;=;==i~=~;~=~;~·~=t;=~=:~~6~~~:r=======================================================: 
It now seems clear that this country's arms expenditures arc uncontrollable, since the pursuit of national "security" via the arms race is a matter of faith rather than logic. 
Exactly how uncontrollable such spending has become is perhaps best illustrated by the fact that should our efforts in Vietnam be terminated this evening, the thirty billion dollar saving would all go to new military programs. 
Government sources now indicate that the Pentagon's escalator will soon take the American taxpayer on a ride toward a $200 billion annual budget. And in five years, a $200 billion defense budget will probably sound as austere as $80 billion does today and $45 billion did five years ago. 
I therefore feel that it is time to seriously question certain crucial assumptions behind our current "defense" policy. In a series of four columns, I plan to look into the four most expensive premises of the military budget: today, the research and development lobby is examined; on Thursday, the American commitments around the earth will be discussed; the theory of increased security through increased nuclear power will be reviewed Monday; finally, next Wednesday, I plan to study the question of priorities. 
One of the basic premises pervading the American warfare state is 
that the United States must always be at ~he frontier of technology 
in every field that could possibly have military significance. This idea 
costs us a little more that $8 billion annually. 
But that $8 billion is only the tip of the notorious iceberg. When a 
new research project is funded, a modest research project. More is 
funded than an energetic group of scientists and military technicians 
to invent future weapons. A lobby is funded. 
Those scientists and technicians have staked their careers on a 
piece of new technology and they measure their prestige in the 
Pentagon by their ability to increase their appropriation from 
millions to billions. 

A rule of thumb: every dollar that is spent this year on a research project is likely to mean spending five or ten more within a few years. 
One major reason for the weapons research budget is the Pentagon's decision to run itself in accordance with the ground rufes of the automobile economy, i.e., a bigger, better, new and improved model each year. The result of this decision is reported by the Joint Economic Committee Report, "The Economies of Military Procurement," which details the dimensions of the waste: 
In the past, literally billions of dollars have been wasted on weapons systems that have had to be cancelled be((Juse they did not work. Other systems have performed far below contract specifications. For example, one study referred to in the hearings shows that of a sample of 13 major Air Force and Navy aircraft and missile programs initiated since 1955 at a total cost of $40 billion, less than 40 per cent produced systems with acceptable elecronic performance. Two of the programs were cancelled after total program costs of $2 billion were paid. Two programs costing $13 billion give poor performance; that is, their electronics reliability is less than 75 per cent ofinitial specifications. 
The Report goes on to criticize the President's Council of Economic Advisors and the Economic Report of the President for inadequately analyzing the impact of defense spending and the Bureau of the Budget for inadequately reviewing the "Defense" Department's budget expenses. 
Furthermore, every new weapons system is presented to the public doubly wrapped. The inside is wrapped in baffling technical details. And on the outside -the flag. 
Whenever the Joint Chiefs of Staff proclaim a new military "requirement" based, as they like to say, on their 178 years of collective military experience, you are expected to simply say thank you for taking care of me so handsomely. Never again. 
~--------------------------------~--~----~~ 
TUESDAY, APRIL 21. 1970 


TUG OF WAR 2:30 A team will consist of either I 0 men or IS girls. The champion of the girls' teams will tug against the champion men's team. A two foot deep mud pit will be 
between the competing teams. Trophies and ribbons will be awarded. 


BED RACE I:00 Five people constitute a team: 4 pushers (male) and one easy (female) rider dressed in pajamas. A bed must have four wheels, four posts, be over 5 feet long, and must support one person. Please build your own bed -do not use the University's. The race will begin with a LeMans start in front of the ROTC building (or perhaps an ROTC start in front of LeMans Hall) and continue around the lake to a finish at Columba !fall. Trophies will be awarded for 1st and 2nd, as well as ribbons for 
lsi, 2nd and 3rd. 

This is a test of your ability to milk a cow and drink the finished product. There will be one cow with one man (or girl) on each side of the cow. The winner must fill a 2 ounce cup, show it to the judges and drink it. There will be a maximum of thirty contestants on a first come first serve basis. Trophies and ribbons will be awarded. 
-

This is a muddy battle between man and greased beasts. Each hall is allowed only one team, consisting of 3 guys or 6 girls. See your hall president for sign ups. 

711B OBSERJJER.

PAGE 6 
Sophmore cars favored 
·•

.---f~ued from page 1) 
working to "implement the total ~ white middle class, Catholic learning process and foster an atmosphere. atmosphere and feeling that there is something good, exiting
Candidate Tom Schaaf re­and creative going on here."
emphasized the need for a provision calling for a second Hurley attributes the "slow­
meeting of the SLC within one 
ness of the council to the
week if it should be merited by 
political bent" of the student
an important issue. He also 
members. Hurley said that he
asked for a time limit on bills in would like to represent those
committee as an "incentive" for people who think that "Notre
committee members to get to-
Dame can grow with a change of
gether and move bills.· ' attitude toward a realization of
Schoaf also elaborated on his the talents of Notre Dame in
plan 'to have hall staffs take a 
many fields, and the desire to
two to three week course pro­
bring them out and develop
gram with the counseling center. them to their fullest capacity."
He feels that the program would help the staffs recognize and guide students with psycho­
Candidates for the SLC seat in logical problems. Schoaf said 
the Flanner-Grace Tower Dis­that rectors and their assistants 
trict turned their attention to are of "primary importance to the issue of sophomore cars last hall autonomy." He added that a 
night, as the tempo of the good staff is vital to a good hall 
campaign picked up. life and spirit. Schoaf feels that the SLC Glen Corso began by saying 
should improve the basic educa­that he was definitely in favor of tional atmosphere. He said edu­sophomore cars. He went on to cation should be academic, say that he felt that, "the social and in the halls. Each part Student Senate Committee has • -should work through and with done a good job researching the the others, according to Schoaf. issue, and has gotten the ad­He said that there are too many ministrations o.k. on the idea." academic "tensions and frustra­He said "having the privilege of tions" that should be relieved by cars would more than offset any the other areas. inconvenience incurred by stu­John Hurley is campaigning dents on football weekends. for the SLC because he believes Corso went on to say that the the SLC needs a "change in administration would definitely attitude." Hurley says that the prosper from the project SLC is a "politically oriented "because any expenses of the body composed of politically project could well be paid for by oriented students." He believes the $25 parking fee." He ended that the council should be his statement by saying that he 

Hair Styling 
for N.D. Men the Continental Way 

·Razor tuttir.g & Style European LayerShapinj.f~r Long Hair ' Have Long Hair & Let·Miss Treva & The Baron Be-Well Groomed · ~erre ~ P.aJ!l..Per you.. 
Continental Hair Styling
306 Sherland LHc~_s . South Bend lnd . 
STUDENT RATES
2340811 
By Appt. 



"felt that the SLC should work towards 'this goal," and that he would work towards its imple­
mentation, and proper security for the cars once they are on campus. 
James O'Gorman said that he is also in favor of sophomore cars and increased security for tho~e cars already here at Notre Dame. As a possible solution to the problem of car vandalism he suggested that only one gate be left open after 9:00 at night, with access limited to those 
SI.C ''true voice''
students with identification 
(Continued from page 1)
cards 

While agreeing that sopho­be a conflict between the stu­mores should be allowed to have dents demand to 'give us free­cars, Bob Ohlemiller said that he dom and we'll show responsibili­
would "not sacrifice protection ty' and the Trustees demand to for those cars already on cam­'show us responsibility and we'll pus," so more .cars could be j!ive you freedom'," Whelan said. brought on campus. Citing secur­Upon the calling of the ity as a possible problem, he also question by student representa­said that if it was financially tive Ted Jones, Chairman Massey feasible to have the proper declared that he felt a ruling protection ail students should be from the chair was necessary allowed the privilege of cars but before a vote could be taken on that at this time other priorities the question. He then declared should be stressed. the motion to be out of order constitutionally since he felt the 
Thus, the issue of sophomore SLC could not overrule a deci­
cars finds general support among sion of its establishing body, 
all three candidates. However, namely the Board of Trustees. 
the methods of achieving it, and The eight student representa­
the importance to each varies tives immediately called a caucus 
considerably. to derirle on what action they 
Plan ~summer storage 
Items will be accepted for Vice President, Brian Zevnick, storage for four or five days, summer stoarage for 1970 will 
According to Junior Class 
beginning May 27. Space will be handled by Barry Doyle, rent. on a contract basis: $.25 Junior Class president, Tom 
per square foot. Insurance will Oliveri, Carl Rak, and Zevnick, 
cost $1.50 for $100 coverage, the same students who handled 
with $200 maximum coverage. last year's operation. 
Zevnick said that a set rate would' be charged for refrigera­Zevnick said there was "a 95% tors: $5 or $10 depending uponchance of using the fieldhouse," size.
pending a decision whether or Zevnick noted that profitsnot to raze it over the summer. 
from last year were used toHe also mentioned the possibi­"wipe out the sophomore classlity of using the football sta­debt." He stated that proceedsdium; but security and insurance from this year would be turnedrisks made this questionable, he back to the class, probably tosaid. 
• help pay for the Senior Bar. 




GRAND PRIX WEEKEND 
TUESDAY APRIL 28 4:00P.M. 
Time Trials-A.C.C. 
THURSDAY APRIL 30 7:30P.M. 
JohnnyJloyd speaking in Library Aud. 
FRIDAY MAY ! 9:00P.M. , 
Tri-Class Prom -Stepan Center 
SATURDAY MAY 2 1:00 P.M. 
Grand Prix Go-Cart Race -A.C.C. 
SATURDAY MAY 2 8:00P.M. 
Sly and the Family Stone Concert -A.C.C. 
Faculty Night at Senior Bar· 
for Colle!!e of Arts & Letters 
Tuesday, April21, 8:30p.m. 
Open to all Arts & Letters Seniors 
~~s uy your Prof a Beer" 
1 
would take in light of the chairman's ruling:-When the meeting reconvened, Krashna again assumed the floor and motioned for a challenge to the chair's decision. He cited an article in the October issue of Catholic Digest which quoted Fr. Hesburgh as saying he felt the SLC was the "true voice" of the University and would have 
to abide by their decisions. 
In the vote to challenge the ruling that followed Krashna 's motion, all the student repr.esen­tatives with the exception of Guy DeSapio supported the challenge but the motion receiv­ed no affirmative votes from the rest of the body and was defeated 13 to 7. 

After another brief student caucus, Meckel offered another motion which called for the SLC to send a letter to the Trustees which would declare that the overwhelming majority of the students, as evidenced by seven of the eight members on the council, opposed the Trustees response on the parietal issue and wanted that sentiment ex­pressed whether they could 
constitutionally  oppose  the  
Board's decision or not.  
"I'm  afraid  the students  are  

the only people on this council who are capable of reflecting the opinions of the student body," Meckel said. "If the council accepts the Trustees' letter it should be clear that it is not the students who accept it but the SLC who accepts it." 
F acuity representative Josephine Ford objected to the student's stand stating that she did not necessarily believe the seven representatives expressed the majority of student opinion. 
De Sapio claimed that the other students were making a mistake by making a power issue out of the parietal question. He pointed out that they were actually questioning the whole concept on which the SLC was based. "The students here be­lieve they can make regulations for their own lives independent of the opinions of anyone over 30 (like the faculty and adminis­trative members of the Council). If you accept that premise then you have to go along with them. I personally don't believe we have reached the point yet where the majority of students have accepted that concept com­pletely, of enforcing the rules...of governing their own lives," he said. 
The time for adjournment was reached before the question could be put to a vote. The council then attempted to find some suitable time for another meeting this week since next Monday's meeting of the Acade­mic Council would probably disrupt plans for the regularly scheduled meeting next week. 
Ted Jones' proposal for a 7.:30 meeting tomorrow morning was finally accepted after the council rejected a suggestion for 

L 


THE OBSERJJER.

TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 1970 
PAGE 7 



Discuss accomplishments of SLF 
contrasts among -them "amaz­realize that they are participantsEspecially after reading their ing." He was also very much in a festival atmosphere."
works, to see what the authors impressed with their considera­Speaking about Tom Wolfe,are like "transcends the written tion and courtesy for his staff. 
Hall said he was "a differentword and gets down to actual Nathaniel Tam called the SLF kind of man" than someonepeople," said Hall. 
staff "his nannies," according to would expect from reading hisWhen asked what the SLF Hall, as they guided Tarn about books. Hall related that Wolfe'saccomplished for the average the campus. 
writing style had been conceived Notre Dame student, Associate Others have charged that this while he was writing a "straight"Chairman Fitzgerald commented year's Festival did not have article on "hot-rods" for Esquire"If we did anything, I think it enough "big names". Fitzgerald magazine. Wolfe was havingwas to open up a greater number answered, "There are only so trouble on the article, and the of students just to the idea of many personalities in the editors happened to look at his exploring the field of poetry." 
country, and that's not saying notes. Apparently, the editors Bob Hall said that the reason for 
they're the best writers in the liked the notes, printed them,this year's emphasis on poetry 
country, either." He pointed out and the Tom Wolfe style was was because it bad been often 
that Gary Snyder and Nathaniel born. Tarn, although relatively When asked to comment upon unknown, are two of the best some allegations that the quality poets in the country He said that of speaker was lower this year this year's Festival has opened than in past years, Fitzgerald new fields for the artist who is replied with a definitive "no".He not recognized by the "literary went on to call the balance establishment". He hopes future among speakers ''tremendous." Festivals will continue this For example, he cited the great trend. different between the viewpoints 
Hall, when asked about the of the Black authors. "You saw future of the Festival, predicted Claude Brown who feels he is that there will be an emphasis to secure now, and Ishmael Reed make it "more of an educative who is fighting to get the thing with a larger ,recognition," Fitzgerald said. participation." He said that the "circus atmosphere" or the past 0 'Malley receives has been avoided and will be 
avoided in the future. He 
Sh d d 
predicts more of this year's ee y owar "fesival atmosphere" where the The second annual Rev. authors "get together and have a Charles Sheedy award for excel-good time" among themselves lence in teaching among pro-and the students. fessors of the faculty of the 
Fitzgerald pointed out that College of Arts and Letters will the Festival was changed be given Friday to Professor considerably this year, and that Frank J. O'Malley of the English many new areas have been department. opened for the Festival" to look The presentation, at 4 p.m., into". will be made at a special 
Financmg the Festival has convocation in the Center for been difficult this year, as the Continuing Education as a part student government contributed of the spring meeting of the a considerable amount Jess than Advisory Council of the College they provided for last year's of Arts and Letters. Students Festiv~. Fitzgerald pointed out and faculty members are invited. 
that fmancing the Festival is The award, set up by an difficult because all of the events anonymous donor, carries with are free. it a grant of $1,000. It will be 
But Fitzgerald went on to say presented by last year's winner, that financial considerations had Professor Joseph Evans of the a small part in their choice of Philosophy department. artists. He said that he and the The winner was determined staff operated on the premise by a committee of students and that "if we got the person, we faculty members who screened could find the money." nominations and eventually de­-Hall also praised the general cided upon Professor O'Malley. attitude of the guests sayiqg, .---------:::= "They're not so interested in money; they're more interested in what we're to do. They 
Graduating Class, Note! House for Rent June Week 
Two story, mod. log cabin in the woods, 5 mi. north Notre Dame, 3 bedrooms, 2 bath, kitchen, lv. rm., den, lg. fire-place, wood. Sleeps 10. Bring the whole family. Rented only to parents. $50 per day, minimum 3 days. Write: Resident, 51187 


Laurel Road, South Bend, Jndia,na 46637. 

Need a u~Haul in June? 
.

Don't leave-·cam pus for serv1ce. 
Ron's Marathon Service, an authorized U-Haul dealer, has appointed Ted Price as its campus sales representative. Call Ted at 283-8408 or 233·0325 or stop in at 305 Pangborn. He'll take care of all the arrangements for your truck or trailer and accessories. Don't chase all over South Bend for your end-of-year moving needs. Call now for guaranteed ON CAMPUS service. 
Now that the SLF is complet­

by Neil Rosini ed, hoth men commented yester­
llow would you go about day on where this year's empha­
putting together a Sophomore sis was put, what the festival 
Literary Festival? Where would accomplished, and what future 
you start'! llow would you festivals might be like.
finish'? For the past ten months, Bob Hall said that this year's
such questions have heen pla­SLF strove to bring to campusguing the Sophomore Literary some of the best contemporaryFestival Chairman Bob Hall and poets, an expert on the "new Asso~.:iale Chairman Rick Fitz­journalism" and experts on thegerald. 
·new form of the novel, instead of simply presentmg ··estahusu­ed" author~. Hall pointed out

Drug issue 
that unless an author was a 

"hack" writer, he is not likely to Miss K.T. C;mnon, graduate of 
achieve fame until he has gone . SMC' Class of '69, addressed the 
past his "prime."

SMC Student Affairs Com.mittee 
Hall said "We wanted to getlast night concerning the nature 
some people who are into what and usc of drugs. is going on now. We rejectedMiss Cannon had participated 
best-seller lists completely."in · various educational work­
Rick Fitzgerald agreed, saying it shops un drugs and teaches a 
was beneficial to learn about the Free University course on the 
,;authors you do not hear about subje~.:l. ller knowledge was 
every day."

sought by the Committee in Hall observed that he and hisconsideration of the drug policy. 
staff worked very closely with Emphasis was placed on the faculty members and past SLFneed for an educational program chairmen to choose the artists. 

on drugs for all students. With He said the primary criteria were 
the increasing use of drugs of all quality, availability, and a genu­
types, serious consequences are ine interest in what the SLF was more probable for students ig­trying to present. "We told them 
norant of disguised distribution. 
right off the bat that we wanted 

"Marijuana may be harmful to them to stay fbr several days and 
those ignorant of its effects and participate in lectures and class­to those who are not making a es." 
conscious choice in taking the -According to Hall, the con­drug," stated the SMC graduate. 
centration of this year's SLF wasElaborating on her statement, to retain the artists for a numberMiss Cannon affirmed a need to of days so that there could bedistinguish between users and more contact with students. "Apushers. She also urged that the number of these people atepolicy differentiate between nar­lunch in the dining halls, and ... 

cotics and other drugs, specifi­were really with students," saidcally marijuana. 
Hall.

The policy submitted by The authors, all of whomFather McGrath states, "the use stayed two days or more, attend­of undercover agents is repug­ed over fifty classes at Notrenant to all members of the Dame and St. Mary's. Hallcollege community." 
estimated that over six thousandIn agreement with this state­students were reached directlyment, Miss Cannon urged that by the authors, either throughthe ~.:ollege not consciously allow classroom visits or through lec­federal or state undercover tures.

agents on campus. However, she This year's SLF consideredencouraged cooperation with the classroom visits to be espec­authorities by releasing any ially important because as Hallinformation it gains concerning saiil, it was "great to have a sources of drugs without disclos­chance to meet these people and ing any individual student being see what..makes them tick."
counselled. 

Sipes to lecture tomorrow 
The Urban Affairs Institute of advisory boards throughout the 
the· Student Union Academic country, and chairman of the 
Commission has announced a Education Task Force in the 
lecture by David L. Sipes on "Goals for Tulsa." He is Presi­
"The Businessman's Role in dent of Sipes Food Markets, 
Urban Affairs," tomorrow night Inc., an Oklahoma based con­
at 7:30 PM in the Engineering cern. 
Auditorium. 
Mr. Sipes is on the Board of Mr. Sipes has been a speaker 
Directors for the Super Market on various supermarket and 
Institute, Chicago, as well as retailing business panels through­
being a member of the Insti­out the country and has often 
tute's Operating Executive given lectures on personal moti­
Council, a member of various vation. 
,;Where Ouaiity Counts" 

TOMPSETT 
Studio 

122 N. 233-6157 




U-Haul: Better cause we want to be 
I 
I I 
THE OBSERfJER. TUESDAY, APRIL 21. 1970
PAGE 8 
Ruggers defeat Big Ten champ IU 

by Jim Donaldson Monaghan's first half try and job. Sal Bommarito led the . to Iowa City to oppose the Tournament, the winner of Mike Paterni's conversion, good defenders and was ably support­University of Iowa in "A" and which will be proclaimed Mid­
Observer Sportswriter 
for a 5-0 advantage after the first ed by Bill Berry, Ken Kern, and . "B" matches. The following west champion. If the Irish canTurning in an outstanding 30 minutes of play. Mark Rubin­Jim Hagenbarth. weekend is a most important · duplicate the showings of theirperformance for the second 
elli and Rich Compagna added The win gave the Irish a 4-0-1 one for the Irish ruggers. They last two outings they can enter week iri a row, the Notre Dame 
trys in the second half and with mark on the season while I.U. will journey to Chicago to the tourney confident and with Rugby Club defeated Big_ Ten 
Paterni converting after Campag­suffered their first setback of the compete in the Midwest Rugby high hopes. 
rugby champion, Indiana · U. 
na's try the Irish built up a 13-0 year. Indiana had won the Big13-6 last weekend at I.U. This lead. Two penalty kicks by I.U. Ten rugby tournament twowin, combined with their im­with less than two minutes weeks ago but couldn't handlepressive sho'wing two weeks ago remaining spoiled the Irish bid the aggressive Irish. 
against Palmer firmly establishes for a shutout and made the final In addition to their aggressive­the Irish ruggers as lime of the 
score 13-6. ness and hard-hitting style of top clubs in the Midwest. 
A strong effort by the Irish play, depth has been a big assetThe Irish controlled the ac­
serum neutralized that of the for the club this season. Al­tion throughout the game, mov­Hoosier serum and the Irish though the Irish lost five startersing into an early lead on Bob 
JIM MURRAY 
backs turned in a fine defensive at the outset of the season, their replacements Gene Tidgewell, Bill Choquette, Tom Hughes, Rick Campagna, and Mark Rubi­nelli have filled in capably and enabled the Irish to sweep 
through their first five games without a loss. The Notre Dame "B" team made a clean sweep of the day's 



News, Not History 
I don't know about you, but if there's anything I hate it's to have 
action by drubbing the Indiana

somebody spoil an interestin plot. I mean, I try not to find out who 
"B" squad 24-3. Indiana held a 

won World War II so I can enjoy the reruns of "Victory at Sea." 
3-0 lead at halftime. The Irish

I want to kill the guy who leans over in the third reel of a mystery 
were very sluggish at the outset

and whispers, "The butler did it." I used to like to go home and 
of play. But led by Ned Braun,

wonder all week how Pauline was going to get herself untied from 
who scored a pair of trys, the

the railroad tracks in time. If I had acrystal baH, I wouldn't use it. I 
Irish bounced back in the second

don't even know what my zodiacal sign is, because if I'm going to 
stanza and ran wild, tallying six

meet a tall, dark stranger or take an ocean voyage I don't want it to 
trys and three conversions.

be an anticlimax. 
Tim Standring, Chris Swalling, 

I never was one to snoop through closets or under beds to find 
Joe DeLois and Bill Hrabrick, all

out what I was going to get for Christmas. I don't consider 
scored trys, John Dostal made

Nostradamus got any fun out of life. Guys who fix prize fights or 
good on three conversion kicks

horse races or World Series, or who play with marked decks or 
while John Kukaitis was the

loaded dice, to me are unimaginative souls who would look at the The men in the serum have been the key to Irish success this 
standout performer in the Irish 

season. Dave Fleming watches as Mike Morrison, Mike Paterni, Gary serum. 
last page to see how a good book came out-the kind of people who 
would pay a gigolo to go on a cruise with them or, on their nights ?Ieason and Bill Choquette form the serum. This action took place
Next weekend the Irish travel 

m the Penn State game before vacation. 
out, go to a dime-a-dance hall. 
That's why I'm so mad at television networks that I think they should all be outlawed and we should go back to stereopticon slides of Niagara Falls. 
They have perfected an abomination against human nature called 
Denison bombards Irish 
the "taped delay," which, as luck would have it, is principally directed at the West Coast. 
The Notre Dame Lacrosse well against their well-drilled times it was lost to the excellentIn 1960, even though it was played in Denver, they gave us the 
club suffered their first loss of opponents but Denison fast stickhandling of their oppo­U.S. Open out here two hours after it was over. This ca11ed for the season last Saturday; a 15-2 breaks and momentary defensive nents.
heroic measures for those of us who want news, not history. For me, 
beating administered by a on the part of the Notre Dame The Irish profited greatly byit meant turning off every radio in every room I went into. It meant powerful Denison Univ. squad, a midfielders scored twelve goals .playing the class of Midwestspending the critical hours of the afternoon in the company of 
longtime power and the only to completely outclass the Irish Lacrosse and discovering somepeople who thought a National Open was an abservance of Tin Can 
Week. It meant driving around on a stifling day with the car midwestern school to recruit "middies", weaknesses and are looking for­Eastern high school players, may Both ND goals were scored by ward to a full schedule next
windows securely roBed _up so I couldn't hear other radios. 
well be among the top 15 junior attackman Ken Lund, one weekend. Saturday afternoonI almost smuggled my suspense home, but just as I reached the 
lacrosse teams in the nation this of these off an assist by senior the "A" team hosts Michigan
last traffic light I saw a friend wig-wagging violently from his car, making signs for me to open my window. I thought he was in year. Freddy Bingle who played an State at Stepan Center. MSU is a 
ND's outclassed team played outstanding game. varsity team this year and they
trouble. He wasn't. But I was. "Isn't it wonderful about Palmer?" he Overall the Irish offense was lost a 25-2 decision to Denison
shouted. 
more sluggish than at any time last week. On Sunday the "B"No jury in the world would have convicted me if I choked him. 
Irish row crew 

this season. The squad could not team hosts the club from De­Now, we dissolve to Monday of this week. Two friends of mine, control the ball well and many fiance College. 
Billy Casper and Gene Littler, are going to play off for the Masters golf championship. A CBS official informs the papers it will be over Purdue televised via tape delay two hours late. 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club 
Now, then, the thing is you must NOT do is turn on any medium 
suffered a triple loss to Purdue, 
MAJOR LEAGUES
of communication between the hours of 9a.m. and the 3:30 start of 
Saturday, as the Boilermakers
the delayed telecast. Right? You might miss World War III that way. 
swept past the freshmen and NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUEYou might miss tornado warnings. That phone call might be 
JV's, and edged the varsity in East Eastsomebody looking to give you money. But it might also be someone 
the 2000 meter distance. w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB
saying,"Isn't it wonderful about Littler?" 
The races christened ND's 2 .778 Detroit 7 .700
St. Louis 7 3
Well, I stepped ou the cocoon about 3:30. Beer in hand, map of 
now officially Olympic distance Chicago 6 3 .667 Baltimore 8 4 .667
the course ready, my faith in TV total, thankful that I had avoided 
course as 200 enthusiastic fans Pittsburgh 6 4 .600 1Y, Boston 5 6 .455 2%
being tipped off in advance, I snapped on the set. 
looked on. ND's freshman and New York 6 5 .545 2 Washington 4 5 .444 2%
And I got a bunch of babbling quiz show emcees and, so help me, 
JV crews were outclassed but 4 8 .333 4% New York 5 8 .385 3%
Philadelphia

a talking horse! 
the varsity's time of 6:18 was .111 6 Cleveland 3 6 3%
Montreal 8 .333
With a sob, I called the CBS affiliate station. After repeated 
within six seconds of the speedy
dialings, I cracked through the deluge of similar protest calls. I got a 
Boilermakers. West Westcheery young lady. "The Masters? Oh, it went on at I :30, the 
The race had an event start, w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GBnewspapers gave out the wrong information." There was a stunned 
but the Irish slipped to a length 12 4 .750 Minnesota 6 2 .750
Cincinnati behind with half the race to go. 7 .500 *California 7 4 .636 % silence. "Billy Casper won it," she offered. 
I'm so mad I almost feel like giving away the plot of the talking Houston 7 4 
Although ND failed to find .500 4 5 .500 2
horse show. Or, I just may call people up and say, "Isn't it San Francisco 7 7 *Kansas City 5 
the crucial "swing," in Coach Los Angeles 5 7 .417 5 *Oakland 5 6 .455 2%
wonderful about Marshal Dillon?" or wait for a John Wayne movie 
Paul Weatherby's words, that Atlanta 5 8 .385 5% Chicago 4 6 .400 3to start, and say, "Isn't it awful about the Indians?" 
lldds the extra needed speed, the San Diego 5 8 .385 5% *Milwaukee 3 7 .300 4 crew looked smooth and will *Night game inot included compete with Purdue and others Monday's results:
Me Coy signs 
Monday's results:

for the Mid-American champion­Kansas City at Oakland, nightPittsburgh 3 Houston 1
ship in two weeks. Milwaukee at CAlifornia, night
GREEN BAY (UPI) -All­pound McCoy by trading three Atlanta 2, Cincinnati
The crew will meet Lincoln New York 11, Washington 2
America lineman Mike McCoy of players to the Chicago Bears Cincinnati 6, Atlanta 2
Park Boat Club of Chicago and Baltimore 3, Boston 2
Notre Dame, who was the during the winter. The trade Only games scheduled 
Culver Military Academy Satur­Only qames scheduled 
second collegiate football player involved veterans Elijah Pitts, 
day, at St. Joseph's River.

picked in the professional foot­Bob Hyland and LeeRoy Chaf­
With 300 meters left, Purdue
ball draft, signed a contract with fey. 
had opened up a two length
the Green Bay Packers Saturday. Scheduled to graduate from 
lead. ND raised its beat to 40
Terms of the contract were Notre Dame also in June with a 
strokes a minute, but Purdue
not released. degree in economics, McCoy said 





