I'UHLILATIUN K.t.:SUM.t.:S I U.t.:SUA Y, U.t.L.t.MH.t.K I, I~ /U
LAST OBSERVER BEFORE THANKSGIVING 
Vol. V No. 5_:1_ Friday, November 20, 1970 
Kezele wins SLC seat 

Newly elected SLC representative Flyod Kezele 

Senators react 
by Fred Schaefer 
Floyd Kezele won the eightH student position on the SLC, defeating Mike Sherrod by a margin of 147-79. There were 8 scattered write-in votes. 
Kezele said, "It is with great reluctance and no particular joy that I consent to this interview." He continued, "I'm thankful l 
won." He plans to push for the 
to 
budget amendment 
by Dave McCarthy 
The conlroversial Giuffrida amendment that was attached to the Senate approved $35,000 allocation to the Student Union requiring the Academic Commis­sion to seek Senate consent be­fore inviting a speaker costing more than $300 was recon­sidered at last night's meeting. Another vote was taken and the amendment failed. 
Steve Novak, an off campus Senator who had originally voted no and then yes when the rider was first considered at last Sunday's favored reconsidera­tion saying, "I can think of a number of reasons...First of all, we did not have a large number of senators here Sunday night, though we did have a quorum." 
Giuffrida defended his amend­ment. "I'm just going to address myself to arguments against this," he said. He noted the difficulties in such processes as impeachment, which can only be undertaken if an official acts unconstitutionally. Impeach­ment had been suggested as an alternative to the amendment by some people opposed to it. 
This isn't a political amend­ment," Giuffrida said. "It's not just a thing to screw liberal 
speakers." Giuffrida conceded that Union personneI were bet­
ter able to contact and invite speakers but he said, "I don't see why a Student Union member is better able to decide how to d , 
spen money.
Rebuting arguments about the inefficiency that the amendment would cause, he said, "This does 
not have to be an inefficient system. . .I do not see any practical problem that cannot be overcome." 
Badin Senator T.C. Treanor also spoke in favor of the rider. He listed three arguments that he "detected" against the amendment. "The most exact objection to this bill," he said, "is that it would slow down the Student Union." Treanor felt such slow down could be avoid­ed if the Academic Commission sought Senate consent at the time they were "hunting down" the speaker rather than at the time they were ready to sign a contract with him. 
Tom Thrasher also favored the amendment. He noted that "many senators believe we don't have a balanced speakers pro­gram." But he was convinced that the Senate would probably not refuse permission for any speaker to come to the Universi-
Students amazed; 
by Jerry Lutkus 
The furor over the failure of the History Department to pro­mote Junior Faculty members Carl Estabrook, John Williams, and Donald Mattheisen, con­tinues today. A student petition 
·calling for an "intensive recon­sideration" of the tenure system has appeared as students seem more and more concerned over the decision of the History De­partment. 
Students seem puzzled con­cerning the action taken by the department. Senior History ma­jor Mike Pavlin stated, "Prof. 
! ,
OBSERVER 't ' STAFFf ATIENTION f t All members of the Observer f 
football team please meet att the Green Field (where the A band practices) at 2:00 Sun-' 
Estabrook was by far the best prof I've had since I've been here." Mike feels that Prof. Estabrook's credentials are un­debatable, so the failure to be promoted had to lie in other areas. "To put it bluntly, he got a raw deal. It undoubtedly was due to the fact that he was a liberal in a blatantly conservative department." Student opinion seems to follow that vein, saying that the terminations· were caused by political considera­tions. 
Students were vocal about the issue, but the faculty remained quiet and for the most part evasive. Dean Crossen, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, said "It's not policy to discuss reasons for dismissal. We like to keep those confidential." When questioned about the political aspect he replied, "There are plenty of other radicals, who have been promoted and tenur­
ed. I cannot believe that in thisf day for the game with WSND. t one isolated case we can claim
,_______,
political reasons." Professor Bernard Norling said ty·D M f d . 
on ooney avore reJec­
. f th d "Th 
tlon ° ~ amen ment. e Shtudent Umfonth~ot ~~ahrted ~do ~~~ t es.e sor~ 0 mgs, e sat , don t thmk they want to be lowered to bureaucrats." Moon-
f It th t U · ff" "a! 
ey e a . mon o lCl s 
(Connnued on p11ge 9) 

~·~ 
• <"'y' 
• ' ·' 

SMC SBP Ann Marie ·Tracey Giuffrida sponsored bill on Sophomore cars. He states, "I think that it has a better chance of pa~sing, since it dosen't effect the faculty." 
He hopes the SLC will look at co-education and study the grading policy. He says, "The pass fail system here needs to be reexamined. I think that if the student is doing 'A' work, he should be able to change from the pass-fail to a letter grade." 
"The way it is now, if he passes, he gets a P, which dosen't effect his grade average. But if he gets an 'F' this is averaged into his GPA, and in a sense, penalizes him." 
Mr. Kezele also said he hopes the SLC will look into teachers tenure. He also feels that "Regarding suspensions, I think a teacher should be given more of a hearing." 
"The SLC has to work harder and faster. The rate it works at now is nothing compared to what it could be." He advocates that the SLC examine matters by committees, rather than the whole body debating the issue. 
As  an  example,  he  cited  the  
Judicial  Code.  He  says  it  was  
"ridiculous"  the  way  it  was  

argued for the first part of the year.. He feels the committee l)ystem would have eliminated some of tht: delay. 
Concerning the campaign, he says "The personal campaigning I did helped me win the most." 
He blames the Observer for the small voter turnout. He claims the endorsement "made it seem as if it was no choice. Because of this, people just didn't vote." 
Stay Senator Tom Thrasher, who helped run the voting says, "There was massive apathy. It was a very small turnout." Roughly one-fifth of the eligible voters didn't vote. 
Sherrod could not be reached for comment. 
SMC Priorities questioned 
SMC student government leaders released a statement last night, to be circulated amon"g the student body for their sup­port, which questions the prin­
ciples  of  SMC  as  a  Christian  
College community.  
Commenting  on  their  state­ 

ment, student government presi­dent and vice-president, Ann 
will be worthwhile. The topic of her talk was "My


silent concerning dismissals 
Life on Drugs." The main body 
Florrie ·Fisher s_peaks about life on drugs 
by Greg Rowinski Library Auditorium For the last 
Florrie Fisher, a drug addict seven years, she has been "clean, 
for twenfy-four years, "told it with God's help and mine" but 
like it was" last night in the has refused herself "the privilege 
of forgetting", feeling that "if 
one kid hears" the anguish she


faculty is 
has to relive with each retelling 
that it's "not necessarily a fair of it was a relating how she was assumption to label the termina­hooked, and lived the life of an tions political." When interview­addict, including 17¥2 years in ed about the situation, he ans­prison. She ended her talk by wered, "What puzzles me is that voicing her opinion of the legal-every year faculty mem hers are ization of marijuana. not renewed in many different "You live in a gutter" was the 
departments and nothing is said. way Miss Fisher described the Why all the attention on this addict's life, the sad fate of particular case?' ! many. She warned that educa-
Professor Michael Francis of the Government and Inter­(Continued on page 3) n a tiona! Studies Department 
Statement of SMC Student Government Lea ers
commented on the incident, say­ing,"Because of the nature of 
At the beginning uf this 1970-71
this, the History Department is 
school year. an assembly w3s held to
going to be forced into telling us 
discuss the dimensions of a Christian 
why these teachers haven't been 
College Community at St. Mary's. At . 
renewed. You really don't know 
the same time, it was recommended 
if it was for political reasons or 
that the college define its "aims and 
urposes" as a Christian College
not." About the men as teach­
Community. According to the cur­ent college bulletin, "St. Mary's is 
ers, Francis stated, "If these men 
are good teachers and to the best 
deoicated to fulfilling the total po­
of my knowledge they are, and 
tential of the person: spiritual, intel­
they can't keep their jobs...?" 
lectual, aesthetic. physical. and so­
The reasons behind the termi­
cial". We believe this dedication to 
nation of these contracts lies 
the persons of the Community 
should be a sincere one, one that committee of the department 
with the tenure and promotion 
indead provides for a "St. Mary's allege that seeks that intellectual,
(Continued on page 9) 

iberation essential to human ad-
Marie Tracey and Jean Gorman and Academic Affairs commis­sioner, Carol Henninger, said it is a reaction to the situation which has been building up the whole semester. 
Miss Tracey said "everything has now come to a head with the contract terminations of Father Runde and Dr. Hinckemeyer." No course of action has been decided upon because of the ambiguity as to exactly what happened. 
The .student leaders' state­ment questioned the principles of the Christian College which. they believe has been relegated to an inferior position below economic and preservational pri­
orities. 
Miss Gorman said "we realize that the priorities of finding a college president and deciding 
on SMC's future are most important. We only ask for a slight awareness that there are students on campus." 
They explained that student government has been constantly put off· and cited the recent rejection of off campus by the Board of Trustees as an example. The off campus proposal had already been passed by the stu­dent assembly, the student af­fairs committee, the student af­fairs eouncil and the student · policy comm'ittee of the Board of Trustees, but it was in the end 
(Continued on page 3) 

vancement and progress". What tilt! college administration now seeks is a stronger articulation of our "aims and purposes", and a viable defini­tion as a "Christian College Commu­nity". We feel however. that there is little need to further verbalize these definitions--actions do speak louder 
than words, and we have for two and a half months felt the impact of their actions. We feel further that the definition of the college which is emerging from the actions relegates the principles of Christianity (on 1 which this college was founded) to an j inferior position somewhere far be l low the economic and preservational 1 
riorities. 
Friday, November 20,_ 1970
Page 2 
THEQ 


Church: •Above the times ' 
Three things which must be p o s sib iIi t y of a "new
By Chris Wolfe 

particularly avoided are triumphalism" which attached
Erik von Khuneldt­

chronolatry, "worship of the the Church to politically leftish
Leddihn warned the Orestes 
spirit of the times," geolatry, causes. "The thought 'if only
Brownson Society last night that 
"worship of the world as the communism would a~;cept
the .Church must seek to be 
world in a deadly serious way", religion' ",said the speaker, was
"above the times" rather than to 
and topolatry, "the choice of "horrible" and would lead to a
"synchro-mesh with the spirit of one area as a center of worship." "KGB with holy water", a mon­
the times." 
In elaborating these points the asticism that was imposed rather
He opened by noting that the word "aggiornamento" is heard 
world-traveler and author noted than a voluntary sacrifice of infrequently in Rome today, that in certain times the Church God-given rights. Such triumph­where "renewal" and "going could learn from the world, but alism, moreover, would be hitch­

back to the sources or 
that this "frightening century" is •::d to causes that seemed de­wellsprings" have replaced it not one of them. stined not to prevaiL


Budweisere 
One characteristi~; of the The Church should not mere­
"And when one returns to the
KINO 0 .. BEERS 
Catholic Church according to ly cater to the spirit of the times ~-~_._~~.-"'-lk against the current." Mr. Khuneldt-Leddihn was the -people even expect something tendency to be a different of it, a certain tough­
source," he said,"he must swim 
In answering the question of

~~~~ana.»-'4t~.a4 
"johnny-come-lately", to get ness and insistence on its prin­
how relevant the Church should 
enthusiastic over issues which ciples which was the source ofTHE lARt:EST-SELLING BEER IN THE WORLD try to be in these days, Mr. 
were already dead. Typical its magnetism. 
Khuneldt-Leddihn pointed out~mMW-~~ that the perspective of time was examples of this tendency were In this critical time, said Mr. 
ST. LOUIS NEWARK LOS ANGELES pointed to, in the nationalizing Khuneldt-Leddihn, the Church
easier for an older man to see,
TAMPA 

of churches in an increasingly must be sublime, even in order
and that young people must 
international age and the to retain a sense of humor.
come to realize that one cannot 
democraticizing of the Church in Ultimately, things must be seencling to the present. 
an age which seems likely to be from the vista of centuries~ in­the prelude to a highly cluding Christ's promise to be Hilton wins disciplined and hierarchical rule with his Church "until the end of experts. of the days", a Church founded Noting that love of neighbor on Rock and against which "the
lrosh class 

is said to be central today gates of heaven will not prevail." rt ONLY TAKES A FEW MORE MINUTES TO GET TO ••• presidency (rather than love of God), he In the question period after pointed out that such love exists his speech, the author stressed by Ed Ellis and Art Ferranti only because of the fatherhood the need of the Church to fill

SIMERI'S 
of God. An historical example of the gap caused by a loss of a C"omt"r of Hill and Madi!-On sense of faithfulness, by recover­
Amid accusations of election brotherhood without God was 
fraud and blatant mismanage­the Liberty, Equality, and ing a sense of family and its
ALL Newly Remodelled 
Fraternity of the French warmness. In answer to a ques­
ment, the Sophomore class elec­
For Your Comfort and Enjoyment 
a relations
tion committee announced last Revolution which ended "in tion on Church-State 
·FINE FOOD 
he pointed to the deliberate mis­night that their tally, Rick Hil­forest of guillotines."

• COZY ATMOSPHERE 
interpretation of the First A­

ton was the president of the The Church's relevance as a Freshman class by a 48 vote teacher of morals was noted in mendment and the impossibility

Happy Hour l-4 and7-9 Daily 
of <J tota!lseparation of Church Pitchttr of BEER $1.18 nearest contender. that the parroting of Christianity and State_ In the "official results", John by one generation will not The dangers of the future 
margin over James Fossett, his several stories which stressed 
: We've Added the Best Pizza in Town to Our Menu! Try Us_, 
Fitzsimmons was elected provide a basis for the effective involve the possibility of anar­vice-president over Roderick moral upbringing of the next. chic dissolution, the coming of Braye, Bob Swanson won the Mr. Khuneldt-Leddihn an enormous reaction against it secretary spot in a write-in cam­analzyed the present Soviet life which might be negative in the paign centered in l·lanner as a perverted king of way the Nazis responded to the Tower, and Terry Tulisak won monasticism wherein a citizen Weimar Republic, and above all his unopposed race for Tre.asurer was told to "live like a Christian the problem of freedom and of the Class of '74, -live like one, not be one." The expertise, with its promise of The election irregularities result of this has been a rule from above. "Right now," 
were based on missing or tem­blossoming of crime" and a he closed, "we are celebrating a porarily lost ballots in six of the "savage generation." drunken party before the curtain twenty halls on campus. In Sorin One major worry is the down."
comes Hall, a total vote of zero was reported. Mike Cotter, Sorin 

Computing Dept.-may disband
Hall President, was unavailable for comment. In Alumni Hall it It is rumoured that the Com­
partment grants a bachelor's

was reported that the ballet box puting Science Department will degree through the colleges of
was not out at lunch and did not be disbanded this May, but n a­l~ngineering, Science, Business,
make an appearance until some­
thing definite will be known and Liberal Arts.. It is not the
time around dinner. Tim 
until the next Academic Council same as the Computing Center
S~;haeffer, Alumni Hall presi­
meeting. whic~ docs administrative work
dent, was also unavailable. Gary 
Rev. Ferdinand Brown, the for the University. 
Caruso, Sophomore Class 
Associate Provost, admitted the There are prcsen tly some
·co-ordinator said that the blame 
existance of the rumour but thirty to forty juniors majoring
lies with the Hall Presidents who 
refused to comment on the mat­in computer science who will be 
did not take adequate action to 
ter. He hinted that the subject without a major if the programput out the boxes. 
would be on the agenda of the is dropped. They are afraid that 
In Morrissey Hall, a more 

Academic Council meeting the they will either have to transfer 
complicated situation developed. 
Monday after Thanksgiving. to another school or change
According to Hall President 
Both he and the Provost, Rev. majors and make up the needed 
John Barkett, the responsibility 
James Burtchaell, mentioned credits.
for running the election was 
that many computer courses are According to Prof. Seymour
placed on him the Hall Presi­
Singer the mem hers of the De­being taught in the various col­

dent, by Gary Caruso, Sopho­
partment know nothing official­leges, seeming to imply that 

more Class coordinator. But 
students must look outside the ahout why the Department is
Barkett said that he was never 
being discontinued or what will

Department for computing
told of this by Caruso. Thus the 
happen to the professors. Thescience courses in the future.

ballet box was not put out at 
The Computing Science De-acting Chairman of the Compu­
(conttJ:r·cd D.'l p.:g: ·{· 
ting Science Department, Ber­nard Waldman, was out of town and unavailable for questioning. 
saturday, nov. 21 in the ace 
TYPING 
A 11y material, arzy lengtlr,
8:30pm





Cha bers 
charts and diagra111s.
tickets $5, $4, $2 
$.50/page. Will pick up and 
on sale at stu dent 
deliver, Call Connie Paden
union ticket office 

289-0177 a ter 4 >.m. 
and dining halls

Brothers 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may 
I 
also ap[Jearing: 
be purchased for $8 from The Ob­
f 
! 
server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. ·46556, Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
1• presented bY student union social commission & a<:c Melting Pot 


Friday, November 20,1970 711B Q&riRI!I&_ -------------:-~==~===:o:":":',....Pag=e~J 
Resistance to helping minority students 

(Continued from page 1) 
rejected by the Board of Trus­tees. Miss Tracey explained that this was a contradiction to the concepts of community govern­ment. they added to their list of grievances included the problems of black students who are new at SMC, and further recruitment for minority students. 
Miss Henninger said, "there is a marked resistence to extending help to minority students through administrative, structur­al, and legalistic blocks." 
In addition Miss Tracey added that too many unilateral deci­sions are being made by one person in authority when the decisions are supposed to go 
Drug lecture 
(Continued from page I) 
tion is not a shelter from the 
drug habit, pointing to her mas­
ter's degree in anthropology. 
She showed herself well-ver­sed in the terminology and ef­fects of various drugs, a result of her years of use and rehabilita­tion. She emphasized that glue is more dangerous than :my other 
drug because of its rapid effect on the brain. She reiterated the fact that hallucinogens an cause chromosome damage, having seen the baby of one admitted drug user. 
She painted a livid, terrifying 
picture of the end result of 
mariJUana legalization, 
describing people shooting and 
smoking in broad daylight, even 
on school playgrounds. 
She quoted figures that claim­
ed that 85% of the users under 
18 were introduced to drugs via 
the family medicine cabinet. She 
believes strongly in the warning 
that 200,000 teens will be lost 
before the drug issue is settled. 
Miss Fisher stated that she is 
not an ex-addict. She admits 
that she must work at remaining 
"clean". Her method is "sharing 
my life", "of getting higher on 
people than I could on drugs." 
She emphasized that everyone 
is "his brother's keeper", and if 
one sees a friend using drugs, he 
should "drop a dime" into a 
telephone to get help for that 
friend. 
"Sorry If I Offend", the story 
of Florrie Fisher's life, will be 
released in April by the Double­
day Comapny. A movie about 
her life, with Liza Minelli in the 
title role, will also be released 
soon. 
Thanks for finding the ID -Maribeth  
Hall President Needs Concert Date Desperately CALL JULIUS KRUTL ~lEYER  
Pre·Law soc1ety VI anuvd University Schc01 of Law Vice-Dean Geroge Bruch is sche­duling interviews for prospective students on Monday, November 23 in Room 20!> Business Big. -Sign-up in Room 101 0' Shaughnessy. On the spot scholar­ship aid will be made available to students with outstanding qualifi­!;il~illD~ iiO"d n!l!lQ fQ[ gig,  
WANTED: Typing to do in my home. Reasonahle rates ­272-5637  

Carol Henninger, who works 
on academic affairs, explained that they respected the adminis­trations jndgemt<nt but she did not feel that the administration respected their good judgement. She siad it is hard for student government to operate in a re­sponsible manner if they are not given the facts and if most of the administration's answers are con­tradictory. 
Miss Henninger added that their responsibilities required that they know wht whole truth. She said that even in her dia­logues with the administration a certain distrust seemed to be present. 
Citing various examples of areas which have been neglected because of economin priorities the student leaders included the need for residence hall improve­ments, health facilities, solutions to maintenance problems, and an off campus • policy. 
Other areas of neglect which through the committees of com­munity government. 
Miss Tracey added that stu­dents have to initiate everything that must be done for the stu­dents welfare. Nothing is done unless we act, and after all the work on the project is done, it is usually put off or not acted upon. 
Miss Tracey said that she rea­lized that with Father McGrath's death there were a lot of loose ends and problems which the new president had inherited. It is a hard post to step into but she did not feel that this was an excuse. 
The student leaders added that· they did not beleive the 
problem rests solely with the administration. "There are other groups responsible for the pres­ent situation because of their influence," said Miss Tracey. Miss Henninger added that there have been ambiguous responces to legitimate faculty 

Collegiate Diamond Importers present 



taman 



at the NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY BOOKSTORE 
Wed., Dec. 2 &Thurs., Dec. 3 10:00 AM-4:00 PM 


The CD/ National Diamond 
Consultant will personally assist you in choosing your engagement ring and other diamond jewelry. 
He'll help you choose your own loose dia­mond: marquise, round, pearshape, emerald, oval or any other popular shape. Then you'll s"elect your individual mounting to create a unique diamond ring that is truly "yours alone". 
what decisions are made. Jean Gorman said that the academic feedom of the faculty seems to be sliced. 
They said "student govern­ment is being used" and this college which is supposed to ex.ist for the students does not do so.Miss Gorman said that the way students have been treated has -left a feeling which will soon explode. 


Hlaher Educ•tlon Second~ Educdlon loc..I-Econo•lc Developlaellt 
" Directories of Positions New, innovative approach. Inexpensive, Effective. 
Write: 

lnterc~t/Sociocom 
Harvard Square P.O., Box 317, Cambridge, Mass. 


Call: 

(617) 868-4150 





bonus offer 
When you purchase any COl engagement ring, you'll receive a 50% reduction on your choice of a set of complimentary matching gold wedding bands. Value up to $125! 


WDiamond Jewelry 


You always save 20% to 40% with CDI diamonds 
COl imports diamonds directly from the world's diamond .centers. You avoid unneces­sary middleman profits. The cost of your dia­mond does not help pay the plush expenses of a je,welry store. Every COl diamond is fully guaranteed, by certificate. Full refund within 15 days if you are not completely satisfied. 
Ask for your FREE copy of "The Romance of the Diamond"... a 32-page booklet about the history, romance and crafting of diamonds; it includes tips on how to choose and care for your diamond. 

Friday, November 20, 1970

THE OBSUIJEit
Page 4 



Naked Kahuna discloses secrets! 
3y John E. Knorr 
(Imagine my suprise and excitement when I was told by the strong-armed guard at the door that, yes, indeed the famed Naked Kahuna would not only see me, but that he would also grant me an interview. It is not many who manage to gain entrance into The Kahuna 's closely gaurded third floor suite in Hreen-Phillips. The following is what was discussed in this infamous meeting between The Ob­server and the Naked Kahuna. The funny thing, the Kahuna is just a friendly, ordinary guy, after the glamour and excitement of his Saturday antics are stripped away.) 
A 20 year old junior standing :1 weighing 148 pounds from Chicltgo, Illinois, Jamie "Naked Kahuna" Eg.~n ia his first year of varsity stripping. OBSERVER -When did this career of yours start? KAHUNA -When I was three I used to streak Lake Shore Drive. Druing my 
grammar school and e:arly high school days on various occasions I would skinny dip in Lake Michigan. I major lettered three years stripping in high school while working at night as the nefarious bandit, the nude burglar. OBSERVER -Were you approached by any other schools with stripping scholar­ships? KAHUNA -Yes, both Southern Illinois and Western Illinois besides Notre Dame wanted my services. I looked over the curriculums and facilities for stripping at 
,,
...***.....~ 
all three schools. Education comes first, my stripping secondary. Notre Dame had 
a  better  reputation  for  education  and  
stripping  so  the  choice  was  obvious.  
However,  l  must  admit the  trip  to the  

Pink Poodle with my recruiter did swing the tide. OBSERVER -Do you have any training you go through both before and during the season'! KAHUNA --Of course. During-the summer I work out at our camp in Naked City, Indiana (Home of Hoarico Hysteria) after putting seven days a week double and triple sessions. I come back to school in September. I strip at least once a day inside the stadium every afternoon while humming the high step tune. At night I push my desk in front of my window, place my high intensity light on me, put the Notre Dame band record on and then do my thing. 
OBSERVER INSIGHT 
OBSERVER  -Is their any  time when  
fear  strikes  before  performing  before  
60,000?  

KAHUNA -Not really. I start gettins butterflies in my stomach with about 3 minutes left in the third quarter. The second l get on football Saturdays I have something running right through my bloodstream. By game time I feel 100 proof; no, I mean I00 per cent ready to go. OBSERVER -Does it get cold out there unclad in the stadium? 
KAHUNA -I can't say that I have e'er felt cold at any of the games. The warm applause from the audience keeps rny temperature at 98.6 degrees. I also bring a bottle of anti-freeze with me just in case. In fact, I even brought a bottle of anti-freeze to the warm weather games in October. OBSERVER -Do you feel embarassed knowing that you are performing in front of the opposite sex? KAHUNA -Not a chance. If the good Lord wanted us to wear clothes we would have been born with them. OBSERVER -··What are you going to do in the off season? KAHUNA -Well, during the winter I plan to be involved in recruiting. Looking at films of prospects, talking with them, and taking them on trips to the Pink Poodle, or possibly the Just Right Lounge. Then I will start a vigorous spring training by stripping during the seventh inning stretch at the home base­ball games. OBSERVER -Where do you think you will go from here? KAHUNA -I still have more than two years left to worry about. Last year I was red-shirted as a sophomore because of the strong varsity talent Notre Dame already possessed. I was awarded another year eligibility by the N.C.A.A. board on collegiate stripping. After my career ends at Notre Dame I would really like to be doing my stripping to "Bear Down, Chicago Bears" at the end of the thrid quarter in Wrigley Field. I also would like to get into law just to find out if everything I have been doing is really 
legal. OBSERVER -Is there anyone you would really like to thank for giving your career a start'! KAHUNA -Yes, I appreciate everything my high school and Notre Dame coaches have done for me. My friends, relatives, and fans for giving me a helping hand when my pants were down. I want to thank Anheuser-Busch for the little some­thing they put in my bloodstream on Saturday morning and to for a great batch of anti-freeze. But the two people who did the most to start my career, my mother and father, who conceived the idea in late 1949. 

~)!!SERVER -Can we look for improYe­ment? 
KAHUAN -I hope so. I think I have come a long way from the bumbling idiot in the Purdue to a good showing in my Pitt performance. At Georgia Tech I felt I could have done a better job after the 4th quarter because at the end of the third my heart just was not in my performance. I may even up my pants next week. I feel that if the stadium widened my seat I could do a better job. After having some foamy soda pop and a bit of anti-freez~ I have a tough time staying on the skinny bench. All in all, barring injury to myself or my two holders, I. Sturm and Tom Davis, I feel that I will put on another sparkling performance. OBSERVER-Do you feel stripping is an inherent ability that you have been gifted with? KAHUNA -No, great strippers aren't born, they are made. 


9:30 

A Cinema Cenler Films Presentation A National General Pictures Release Panavision" Technicolor• ~ ~ 

on DECEMBER 4, 5, 10, 11,12 at 8:30 and DECEMBER 6 at 2:3 in 1.'1/ashin ton Hall. Tickets $1.50 Info: 284-4176 
Frosh elections 
(continued from page 2) 
:;:;: lunch and was not put out at :;;~ dinner until 10 minutes before :;:~ the polls were to close, when :;:~ someone located the box and ~;: someone to run it. The result ;:;: was that only 46 of I00 frosh ;:;: voted. Barkett considered this ;:;: law because two of the presiden­
~:::.::::·.;::::.::·.·.·:· tial candidates were in the halls.
Barkett blamed mismanagement on the part ofthe Sophomore 
· 
•• Class organizers for the con­~;~ fusion in the hall. Caruso blamed :;:; Barkett for not arranging to put
>'•
:::~ out the box.*3 Also in Morrissey, James Fos­:;:; sett's roommate was asked by 
:;:; :::: 
the "person running the box" to take the box and the empty ballots to LaFortune Student Center where the ballots were being counted. 
Lowenstein to 

speak Sun. 
"' 
Allard K. Lowenstein, U.S. Representative from New York and recipient of the Notre Dame Senior Fellow Award, will speak Sunday in Washington Hall at 8 
P.M. on the subject "Where Do We Go From Here." 
TONIGHT 
CAC'S 
Cinema '71 
presents 



"L•st Ye•r •t
•.,.....,(winner of numerous awards including the French Film Critic's "BEST PICTURE OF THE YEAR", FIRST PRIZE at the 1961 Acapulco Film Festival, FIRST PRIZE and BEST PICTURE OF 1961 ­Venice Film Festival).
7:00 & 9:00 Engineering Aud Admission $1 .00 Cinema '71 Patron's Free 


Friday, November 20, 1970 


Sue Bury: Coed stalemate at S M C · 
by Sue Bury It also stated that the bond He observed that the only noid." OBSERVER Associate Editor between ND and SMC is that real point of agreement of the He dosen't intend to continue NOWIHOWitiC they are both "Christian com­faculty is that they all think work on his proposal, but he
Recent rumors that Notre 

Dame will become a co-educa-munities." Any new university "something will happen to feels that it did make the prople tional institution with or with­structure "ought to oroceed them...the final resolution re­involved in the problem more 
Does her anger at a 

out St. Mary's have sparked from our present unity, inform­flects what everybody thinks is aware of the possibilities. some action on the part of the ed by enlightened educational 
going to happen." Miss Elizabeth Noel, of the domineering husband SMC faculty. departures." English department, is a member
Stephen McNally, of the math 
justify awife's taking

Howewr, the statements and The document was signed by ofthe· ad hoc and coordinating
department, observed that th,~ proposals that resulted seem to Runde, Dr. Richard T. Bohan, faculty has had trouble hitting a committees. She said that the be in vain. Several SMC faculty Dr. Michael T. Hinkemeyer and middle of the road situation 
original rumors "created a sense •of urgency. A great many people
members have indicated that Dr. Richard Detlef. between merger and autonomy.
An appendix by Detlef gives began doing a great many
He said that it's difficult to see
OBSERVER INSIGHT 

three reasons why St. Mary's things."
what the faculty wants should enter the University only "people are refusing to partici­Several faculty members com­there is no more to be done until 
as a separate institution: 1) mented that the only course of
pate in getting a formal consen­
the report of Drs. Park and 

Notre Dame is "obvion~ly ill­sus ... we need a means of expres­action now is to wait for the
Mayhew, consultants hired to 

equipped and unprepared to sing positions anonymously." He consultant's report. Dr. Hutch­
study relations between the two 

operate a residential communitv commented that the faculty si­eson said, "The decision will be 
campuses is released. 

for women," 2) St. Mary's i~ made and we'll be told about
lence doesn't seem to stem from
Some of the teachers said that 

better prepared to answer special it."
job insecurity but he was unable
the "panic" was the result of 

academic and social needs of to provide another possible The only positive achievement 
comments made by Frs. Burtch­

women, and 3) a second co­of the whole SMC faculty uproar
cause.
aell and Sheedy in the Observer. 

educational liberal arts college Detlef commented that most was the passage of the two reso­
Another source of confusion was 

will "enrich the intellectual life of the SMC faculty will "lose lt!tions, neither one of which is 
a statement made by a high­

of the University without adding their jobs in the crunch" and very concrete. And considering
ranking N D official at a meeting 

to its financial burden." that this threat is inhibiting an the variety of opinions expressed 
of the coordinating committee 

Of the proposals and state­"out-going attitude." He said by those faculty members who 
to the effect that tenured teach­

ments brought before the facul­that the school administration are bothering to express them, it 
ers at SMC would be kept on as 

ty assembly, Sr. Miriam Patrick's takes the form of an academic is not even positive that those
faculty members if the college 

original document was the only idea, and that academic goals resolutions reflect a real concen­
and the university merged. As 

one to be considered. As Dr. should be decided first and then sus of opinion.
there was no mention of non­

Black phrased it, "Teachers talk investigated to see if they are Dr. Poinsatte said that the
tenured teachers, some faculty 

a lot." The assembly never got students who are pushing for
~easible.
members assumed that that 

around to looking at the guide­co-education are trying to make
Dr. Francis Benton, of the
group would lose their jobs. 

lines designed by Poinsatte and decisions for instituitions in
An ad hoc committee was chemistry department, added to 
Runde. Instead, it dealt with the which they have only a tempor­
formed from the SMC faculty this view by commenting that 
first statement, which eventually there are some psychological ary concern. The faculty is ora n-1adassembly with Dr. Anthony 
evolved into two brief resolu­"deeply concerned" -especially
Black, assembly president, as differences in teaching girls. "It's 
chairman. The committee was tions. The first says simply that easier to destroy a young girl's when their jobs may be on the housevvlte the faculty assembly goes on line. a frank perry film starring
composed of nine members, in­confidence than a young man's -­
record as favoring a plan to But faculty actions so far has
and it's not because she doesn't
cluding three members of the richard benjamin
make St. Mary's a college of the gained little yardage .toward
coordinating committee. The ad have the ability."
univeristy, "a coordinate rather solving the co-ed problem. The frank langella
hoc committee was given the He said that he is not sure task of formulating a statement than a merged organizational that being part of the university only course of action available carrie snodgress
plan." now is to wait --for Park and
would support an undergraduate A UNIVERSAL P1CTURE • TECHNICOLOR•that would reflect a consensus of 
The second resolution, pre­Mayhew to make their resolu­
atmosphere, but he added that ~ .__,~~~-4 GiJopinion among the teachers con­
pared largely by Detlef, ampli­tions, hopefully next semester.
becoming co-educational would
cerning co-education and merger fies the first -"the arrangement 

retain the objective to give a
with Notre Dame. 

alone will preserve the advan­
good undergraduate education.
Sr. Miriam Patrick wrote a tages of competition among de­

brief document calling for St. "But the final responsibility DHn M•rtln
partments and courses which 
lies with those who are legally
Mary's to join Notre Dame, as Matt Helm 
may deal with almost identical 
responsible -the board of trus­
while retaining "autonomy." 

subject matter. ..the competition 
tees ... the academic community
She also asked for consideration can only be helpful not only in 


The Wrecking Crew 
isn't a democracy."
of the effectiveness of the Key the sense of diversity, but as a 

As for his own plans, Fr.
Biscayne statement -the out­

stimulus to the quality of think­"A VERY ENTERTAINING
Runde said, "That's all." He said
come of meetings last spring of 

ing and teaching." AND RELAXED
that he had discussed his plan
the two boards of trustees and 

Dr. Richard Hutcheson, a with some· faculty members SPY COMEDY" • Varietythe presidents of the college and member of the ad hoc com­
from Notre Dame and that it's
the university which said basical­

mittee and head of SMC philoso­"going nowhere over there ... youly that the current cooperation 
~~%\Xi~ ADM1SSION: $0.75 TIME: 7:30 & 9:30 
was good and would continue. phy department, commented think we have citadels of powers that the value of these resolu­
here, they have kingdoms over
Dr. Charles Poinsatte, of the 

tions "depends on what's made 
there." The Not rc Dame re­history department, another 
of it by Park and Mayhew, the 
sponses to his proposal includedmember of the ad hoc commit­
administration or anyhody else." 
such comments as, "That'stee, attempted to clarify the 
He said that he didn't know if 
nice.''
word "autonomy" by setting up 

the committee had come up 
Runde described the situationmore concrete guidelines for 
with a statement of faculty con­
at St. Mary's as one of "fear andhow the various sections of the 
sensus of opinion, but it did 
frustration" because the SMCcollege would function within 
stimulate the resolutions. "The 
a faculty "didn't know what
the university. He included was 
constitution of the committee 
happening." He added thatprovision for the girls to receive prevented more action." 
Notre Dame "sees us as para-Notre Dame degrees. 





These proposals, along with an elaborate merger plan design­ed by Fr. Raymond Runde of the education department, were placed on the agenda for faculty assembly and possible approval. 
Fr. Runde's plan cited two reasons for the necessity to change the existing situation: 1) student and faculty pressure for co-education. and 2) needless duplication of effort on the two campuses. 
Nine colleges would form the University of Notre Dame under this plan, including St. Mary's College of Liberal Arts and the 

What they didn't get, they took by force•. 
John Cavanaugh College of Arts and Letters, both co-ed. Sepa­rate colleges with their own faculties and budgets were en­visioned, each formulating pro­grams to benefit its own field of study. 
The document emphasized the importance of maintaining undergraduate quality instead of sacrificing it for graduate stud­ies. 


Page 6 THE OBSEIWM Fridav. November 20, 1970 

THE OBSERlTER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GLEN S. CORSO, Editor-in-Chief JOHN E. KNORR, Executive Editor BRUCE RIECK, Business Manager 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Ce1ntralized Balloting 
When the new constitution wmes up before the student body, the Obsen•er hopes that it will win. We've made this abundantly dear. By the same token, we hope the vote is efficiently and fairly conducted. 
As long as there are twenty-three ballot boxes in twenty-two halls and an off-campus office,_ the chances of dishonesty and perfidity rage high. Past elections have indicated this. Rarely has there been a year of a Senate or HP elections which hasn't been marked by charges of fraud, and this year's farcical Freshman Class election run, as Senate and HPC races are, in the hall, amplifies all our misgivings about such races. 
The one time centralized elections were held, the balloting turned out to be an impressive success. Balloting for the Princeton Plan, held around the Registrar's office of the Administration building, was clean, efficient, and honest There were no charges of voter fraud. None were needed. rrhe superiority of the system was obvious. 
Centrallized balloting is like that, though. Since there would be perhaps only six ballot boxes (as opposed to the present twenty-three), there would be one-fourth 
the number of people required to man the boxes, and one-fourth the chance of mistake. 
Quite frankly, we have very little hope the election committee will act in such a rational manner. Events past have indicated that the election committee is fain to take a strong stand against intelligent action. Nonetheless, the action would be of obvious benefit to the student body, and is , indeed, the only fair system possible. 
Dave Latnmers 


Academic freedom 
The present flap over the decision of the History Department not to rehire three of its younger professors is a complicated issue, and is important to all of us.. The problem encompasses political, economic, and academic considerations. The decision affects the non-tenured faculty in every department, thf: students in Liberal Arts, and the credibility of the Administration. 
Two facts should be known from the outset. First, Professors Mattheisen, Estabrook, and Williams are all considered to be excellent teachers within the department. The teacher evaluation forms that the University conducts found all three men to be well respected by the history students. The Scholastic evaluation book has glowing descriptions of Professor Mattheisen, which leads one to speculate that good teachers are held to be expendable elements. In Father Hesburgh 's speech to the faculty this fall, he emphasized that teaching should be of more importance than academic research, and as teachers of history th·ere can be little doubt that these three men are very good. It would be difficult to fault the academic "credentials" of John Williams, for example, who received a Ph.d. at Yale under the tutelage of the immediate past president of the Ame.rican Historical Association, and then did post graduat~ work at the London. School of Economics. Dr. Estabrook did his aca­demic work at Harvard, and Dr. Mattheisen has a book on German history at the press. 
Secondly, it Ts to the great detriment of Dr. DeSantis, the head of the History Department, that no reasons were given to these men for their dismissals. A te'rsely worded letter that says "we don't want you anymore" is not a proper explanation after five years of teaching. Dr. DeSantis refuses to speak to members of the press; Dean Crosson cannot understand the excitement over the dismissals; Dr. Norling asks us to consider that many other men in the university will not be rehired. None of these reactions answers the current questioning, and serves to heighten speculation that the history department is purging two of its "liberal-radicals." : 
The student strike last spnng reportedly had an especially sharp impact on the already conservative history department. At any rate, it is impossible to say with certainty that the politics of the men was the major consideration. Professor Estabrook, who has been. at Notre Dame for two years, was not up for tenure, and it seems that political considerations in his case may have been the deciding factor. No other reason was given, and agam; we -are forced to speculate, and at Notre Dame, one soon comes to -expect the worst. Dr. Mattheisen agrees that he was not a political figure in the department, and some believe that he was not rehired, along with the two others, as a sacrificial lamb. Again, we are forced to speculate because of the unfortunate silence of the decision makers. 
And what if, as surely will be contended by the 
administrators, the reasons for the dismissals were 
clean and pure, academic and financial, 
unblemished by personal or political antipathy? 
There are at present sixteen tenured faculty members in the history department, while six men lack that degree of academic protection. Father Blantz, on leave from the history department, hypothesized that the department could to afford to take on two more tenured faculty in the person of Williams and Mattheisen. There are at present, ten Ph.d.'s in history for every job opening, which means that less money for history graduate students is coming from the federal government, which means hypothetically, that less faculty members will be needed within the department. This economic situation is combined with the financial priorities at Notre Dame, where less and less money is available for liberal arts studies while the federal grants for engineering and military research go undiminished. 
Did, then, the history department fail to rehire these three men as an economy move'/ Again, we are forced to speculate. Department heads rarely trim their own department without a directive from the central administrators. Also, financial considerations are not the concern of tenure committees, who should more concerned with the teaching and academic excellence of the department. 
And if, in fact, liberal arts faculty are being dismissed for economic reasons, that means that there will. be fewer young professors teaching fewer courses to more students in liberal arts. Liberal arts students become more numerous while liberal arts professors decline in numbers! Priori ties? 
And what intelligent young historian would want to teach at a university that keeps its professors for five years before banishing them to the classified ads? 
The argument that the history department is magnaminously cutting back expenses so that the University can survive is specious at best. Unless the men responsible can prove that these men were not fired for political reasons, the students and faculty have every right to protest to the fullest. 

Yes, we are working on Sophomore cars right now! 
Bill C~ter & Joltn Knorr~,;===================================;=================== 
Tltelast lauglt 

The Notre Dame Student Senate is a joke that is steadily becoming less and less funny. Its members are, for the most part, elected because they play the role of the local Hall comedian, or else because no one bothers to run against them, or else because their opponents manage to sound even more foolish than they do. The Senate is swimming with opinionated gentlemen who claim to act in the interest of the student body, but who truly act on the basis of self interest alone. The claim that the Senate represents the student body is as empty as most of these senators store of good intentions. The plain fact is most students never vote in the Senate election and an even greater majority couldn't tell you the name, or even the general appearance of their own Senate representative. The senators are forgotten men on this campus, simply because few people ever knew them in the first place. 
As can be gathered from the above, we feel that the Senate in 
no way, shape, or form is a viable group, and that the only 
recourse to the situation is the extinction of the Senate. The fact 
that Mr. Krashna has waited till now to call for a referendum may 
indeed be an error of judgement on his part, or just another 
example of inefficient student-government bureaucracy. The 
point is, that since the Senate will probably not vote itself out of 
existence, a refer~ndum is forthcoming. 
We personally support Mr. Krashna on this issue for we feel 
that the Senate has in the past done nothing to merit it's 
continued survival. In fact, the only relevant issue that everyone 
agrees will confront the Senate would be the handling of the 
budget every year. If a Senate is needed for the sole purpose of 
handling the budget, we are in a bigger foul-up of red tape than 
we had imagined. 

It is true that many people in the past have worked long and 
hard to make the Senate a truly representative body, free from 
personal bias and theatrics which so often invade student politics 
at Notre Dame. Unfortunately, in the past there have been 
persons who have used the senate as nothing more than a soapbox 
to air their own viewpoints and as a stepping-stone to future 
positions. These are the people who have made the Senate the 
ineffectual body that it is, barely representative of student 
thought. 

Another reason for the Senate's ineffectualness is that the 
Senate has in the past been controlled by one clique, and the 
Cabinet hy another and the two organizations are noted for 
working at cross purposes to each other, instead of working 
together for a common gual for the students they supposedly 
represent. A case in point is last year's senate who seemed to have 
as it's top priority the destruction of Phil McKenna. A noble 
crusade for 1 student-sponsored organization. 
The problems of the Senate are innumerable. That is water over the dam. The problem now is whether to retain the Senate or not. Mr. Krashna won with a 63% mandate from the student body. His platform was reform and dissolution of the Senate. This referendum needs 60% of the student body to vote before the issue can be decided one way or the other. We urge you to vote. 
If you are tired of ineffectual representation and nothing being done at N D. vote for the abolition of the Senate. It has done nothing in the past, the problems remain, so it will probably do nothing in the future. By getting rid of the senate, a reformation in government may be attained. It may work, who knows? It certainly can't be any worse than the present, which has not a glimmer of future success. 
We feel that by ridding student government of the cancer known as the Senate, at the very least red tape will be cut down and a better centralization of government may be achieved. ln any event, something, anything, new in the form of a legislative body would be worthwhile if its members believed in doing some real 
work for the students. The Senate just does not have such a motive. 

-=Fr=in_a_v_._N_o_v_e~m=b_e_r_2_o~,-19_7_o________________________________________~J[ ()~ Page7 
lfey. Robert Griffin 
•




Lonely hearts 1n the Unreal City 


It seems to me that the background music appropriate to this tale depicting the further adventures of the Jesus-worker in the Naked City might well be the theme from Midnight Cow­buy. Yet it is not the story of a Times Square hustler; it is only an incident involving an old man, a figure sketched in sadness, who may have been (though I Joubt it) a complete stranger to the world of Forty-second Street. In my role. 
I certainly was no Dustin Hoffman-like character; yet, like Ratso of the shuffling foot, I am sometimes a psychic cripple when I think of New York, especially wh~on l remember the night scenes of Manhattan: the sidewalks caked with scum and grime and otherwise cluttered by human garbage; the trains that thun­der in darkness through tunnels walled with stone, grooved with steel, and utter­ly alien to anything that is human or anything that breathes except rats; the shops that peddle flesh; th.e solicitations to share a bed with the hollow-eyed women who wait in the shadows of the doorways in Eighth A venue. 

Twenty people living in a barn that an Indiana farmer wouldn't dare keep his pigs in. Is such a situation possible in America, the most affluent country in the world? It is a very grim reality to those twenty residents of Salyersville, Ken­tucky. Their barn (or rather their home) is located on one of the main highways of Salyersville for any adventuresome tourist to gawk at. This is only one case of the poverty that exists in Appalachia. • 
Salyersville is the county seat of Mago­ffin County and it contains about 1200 of the county's 9000 people, most. of whom are scattered throughout the "hol­lers" in the Appalachian Mountains. Why do twenty of these people live in a barn? fhe answer is very simple ~ no jobs. More than 50% of the people are un­employed. Years ago the area was boom­ing from the coal mining industry. Men were willing to sacrifice their lives to the possibility of a cave-in or the inevitable death from black-lung disease. Gradually mechanization took over. Augers were u~ed to remove the coal from the mines and strip mines became more common­place. Strip mines reduced the number of the work force drastically. Men who had spent their whole life becoming skilled at m;ning were left with a pair of deteriorat­l'd lungs and no income. 
Over the years Magoffin County has heen reduced to a welfare county. The big day in Salyersville is the first of every month. That is the day the welfare checks come in. People form lines down the main street to get into the Salyersville National Bank to cash their check. From their they go to pay their debts or to stock up on a supply of food for the next month. 
Many things strike the eye when walk­ing down the main street of Salyersville (actually downtown Salyersville is com­posed of the intersection of Routes 460 and 7). The most evident is the un-
The incident happened in a recent summer on a Sunday evening, when the chores of the Lord's day were done, and I was dining in a deli in one of the neighborhoods below Fourteenth Street. The counterman had carved me slices of beef and arranged them on a roll; and having set my supper on one of the empty tables of the joint, I had popped through a Joorway leading to an adjoin­ing bar, where I placed an order for a $.65 Manhattan. On returning with my drink to the table, I saw him: a white-haired gentleman, about sixty-five, impeccably dressed, and very drunk. Ex­cept for his drunkenness, he could have been a serior partner at Tiffany's, or a visiting professor of humanities at NYU, or an associate in the ministry with Norman Vincent Peale. In appearance, he was a beautiful old man, and I dimly wondered if he were a recent widower mourning the death of his wife with booze. 
As sometimes happens, he noticed the Roman collar and came over to ask if he could buy me a drink. I refused, since he was drunk; he went away; and there, I thought was an end to the matter. 
But afterwards, I saw him outside, trying to board an uptown bus. I watched while the driver waved him off the steps of the vehicle, into a street heavy with traffic, and I decided the old gentleman, probably somebody's grandfather, was in need of my help. Rescuing drunks from traffic is an old hang-up of mine. As a young cleric, I once gave absolution to a drunk who lay dead as an accident victim in the streets of Boston, and I would never recommend that kind of situation to anyone as a way of priestly fulfillment. It seems to me I have spent half my time since ordination dragging alcoholics from near-brushes with disaster under the wheels that screech to a halt on crowded city streets. 
I said to him words like these: "Old timer and senior citizen, sir, can I take you where you want to go?'' 
He looked at me, his eyes lit up, and delight danced in every corner of his face. In a reply that was almost a squeak, he said emphatically, "Ye-ess!", and some­how he made three syllables of the word. He linked his (lrm in mine and we began walking (seemingly, the symbols of vener­abilty with a bag on, and naivete wad­dling like a duck) down the street, around the \:Orner, and down Fifth Avenue to his apartment in one of the posh buildings near the Washington Mews. 
It only took about three minutes of inter-locking arms for me to suspect that I was dealing with an old man not nearly as drunk as he had appeared, who was wicked in ways that could only make me nervous. My worst fears were confirmed, in the fourth minute of our five minute jaunt, when he turned to whistle after three young servicemen who passed us on the sidewalk. 
In the meantime, he told me something of himself: he was a graduate of an Eastern college; he lived with his sister, and worked as a free-lance writer for the slick magazines. A week before, he said, two young thugs had followed him up to his apartment, where they had beaten and robbed him. However, I seemed like a decent fellow, for a priest, though, he said, he regarded me as rather fat. Since his sister was away , and though the apartment was a mess, wouldn't I come up to his place for a drink? 
In turn, I told him I was from Notre Dame, Our Mother, and I agreed that yes, I was terribly fat, and getting fatter by the minute. I said I couldn't stand messy apartments, and that I couldn't possibly have a drink with him because even now a concerned Monsignor was scanning th~ streets from the rectory door, anxious for his curate to come home for a game of checkers. 
In the final scene of this absurd little drama, when I had finally pried my arm loose from a grip like that of a widow standing at a graveside, looking for the first time into the face of loneliness, this pathetic old man with the face of a ·saint suddenly embraced me, and touched me with a gentle gesture on the cheek. Then he turned, and practically ran to the door of his apartment house, where he let himself in with a key. 
It is tasteless, perhaps to tell this story, but it is part of the dirge of man's isolation in the heart of the Unreal City, of which, as I have said before, Notre Dame seems only a suburb. At the time, I was angry and embarrassed at the old man's behaviour with a priest who never knew enough not to talk to strangers. Since then, I have learned to live in tenderness with the memory of that aging lush who. it appears, wanted to play the role of Midnight Cowboy; because in that final gesture, when he touched me on the cheek, I think he revealed his heart in all its wistful human desperation. 

Saylersville: a look at poverty 
believable number of men just strolling down the street or leaning on a parking meter shooting the breeze. Walk by the 
courthouse steps any time of day and you will see men packed on the steps, sitting there whittling on a stick, taking time out every so often to spit a wad of brown tabacco juice onto the sidewalk. The men's faces are grizzled and weather beaten. Some of them used to have jobs a short time ago with a camper-trailer factory that was started as part of the War on Poverty. But the company closed 
up shop shortly after it started for a number of reasons, and the men ended up back on the courthouse steps. The fac­tory building still remains, waiting for the day when some energetic, young business­man will come down to Salyersville to try his luck at starting a small business. The men of Magoffin County are still waiting also. 
Inside the Magoffin County Court­house the halls are almost exactly like those of Pangborn or Keenan, at first glance anyway. The floor is covered with "whittlins" and brown tobacco stains 

. while the odor evokes memories of a barnyard. The main hall is jammed with men mulling about just like those outside trading stories and spreading the gossi~ about the day's court cases. A favorite pastime of some of the townspeople is sitting in on the circuit court judge's cases. News spreads fast through the "hollers" (Just sit in one of the country stores at the "head of the holler" and you can find out what most people in the county are doing.) Fornication and incest cases are the really big drawing cards. 
Driving through the town after dark, you will probably see a small handful of the older, more grizzled men still on the streets. These are the "happy pappies", remnants of Roosevelt's WPA programs. The county, as part of the War on Poverty, pay the "happy pappies" $1.25 an hour or approximately $15 to sweep the streets and sidewalks. They take their pay and run to their neighborhood boot­legger (Magoffin is a dry county) and spend the rest of the night drowning their sorrows talking of how it used to be. 
The children of the county provide a real contrast in living styles and person­alities. The children whose fathers are lucky enough to hold down jobs (either in other surrounding counties or what few there are in Magoffin) usually dress very neatly, own a bicycle, and are very excitable and outgoing. These are the 
children that live along the main roads in houses that are typical of small com­munity in the ind\lstrial North. In con­trast there are the children who live back in the "hollers". They are very quiet and shy, speaking only when spoken to and sometimes not even then. They rarely come down out of the "hollers" except to attend school. If for some reason they aren't able to make it to school one day because of illness or snow, they might not bother coming to school again for the rest of the year. They would just stay in back in the "holler" and do whatever chores need to be done. 
The school system is one of the main suppliers of jobs for the people. Yet in the last nine months the grade school and part of the high school have burned down. Whether by arson or accident seems unimportant now. The children are forced to go to school in trailers parked on the school grounds. As a result, there arc no cafeteria facilities and the children are bussed out to restaurants to eat lunch. But the school day remained the same length of time. Now instead of attending classes, the students are spending their time being shuttled back and forth on busses. 
Seldom seen in Magoffin County are the young people, that is, the older teenagers and people in their twenties. Why? Because they have gone to find a better place to live. A place where they can find a good job and not have to rely on the welfare checks as their elders are doing. Shortly after they graduate from high school (if they get that far) they catch a bus or take their old beat up cars and go to Dayton, Cincinnati, or any other city that offers some promise. For them the future is still ahead. They aren't as attached to the hills as their parents are, and they would rather spend their life looking for a better way of life in the big city than waiting futilely for some­thing miraculous to spring up in the hills. The young people that are left are bound closely to family ties and will be left to carry on the tradition of the mountain people. 
Magoffin County represents jl!St one small portion of Appalachia which in­cludes parts of eight other states besides Kentucky. The picture painted here does 
not appear too bright, but there are things that can be done to help. Next: What can be done. 

'NSND-H.1 SHOW 
WSND-FM (88.9 o; your FM dial) will present a weekly half-hour program of editorial readings, analysis, news com­mentary, and information, at 6:30 P.M. today. The show will feature editorial comment that reflects national and re­gional opinion on primary issues drawn from newspapers, magazines, and journals from around the United States. The aim is to provide awareness of varying points of view in varions parts of the country
f 




Friday, November 20, 1970
Page 8 






======letters to tile Editor===== 
Aa Alternative 
Editor: 
I wish to avail an opportunity, to the powers that be, for a real expression of Christian charity. Presently, our cheerleaders are engaged in a drive to finance a trip to our game with Southern California. It seems to me that a 
more  appropriate  utilization  of  
the  monies  accrued  might  be  
realized.  The  money  could  be  
given  to  some  poor  family  or  

families in South Bend to pro­vide a Thanksgiving dinner to those, who otherwise would have been deprived of a decent meal. Admittedly, such a gesture will not receive national publi­city that the superfluous pre­sence of cheerleaders will at­tract. But, just where do our values and priorities lie in this matter? 
Sincerely, Robert Pallemon '71 
MECHA 
Editor: 
I am in total shock over the Observer's latest example of ir­responsible journalism. Your edi­torial comment on the Senate's allocation of $1 ,500 for the Mexican/Americans is not a mere non-sequitur, it is a serious and damaging attack on one of the youngest and most pro­mtsmg organizations on this 
·campus. Yes, dear friends, it is possible to submit a really good program and at the same time "totally underestimate the costs," and anybody with two cents worth of brains will admit that, unless he is so self-right­eous and possesses such a dear vision that he lies about the human level. The increased allo­cation to MECHA is indeed a pos(tJve _measure by the ~enate 1 probably one of the few that it will do. 

I would like to add that I am not a member of MECI-IA, but I have been in contact with them, and have been thoroughly im­pressed with their devotion ot a two fold goal: to make the resources of Notre Dame avail­able to Mexkan/Americans at large and to recruit Mexi­can/Americans to ~.:orne to Notre Dame. 
Student Government has of­ten been accused of being an "ivory tower" where a self-ap­pointed clique of God's chosen people hit above the ignorant masses and rule the lives of other inferior beings. Yet, I would like to point out that the Observer's offices are on the same floor as those of Student Government, and your editorial last Friday reflects that attitude, which YQU like to niticize so much. If you had only taken the time and the trouble to talk to Armando Alonzo, chairman of MECHA or either one of its moderators, Dr. 1ulian Samora or Dr. Arthur Rubel, you would have given your readers a true picture of the. organization's seriousness and responsibility instead of throwing a cloud of dust in their eyes as you did. 
Orlando Rodriguez 
Estabrook and Willia~ns Editor: I read the excerpt in the November 18 Observer on the firing of Professors Carl Estabrook and' John Williams with great regret. I have heard nothing on the reasons why these men were dismissed, but I can only surmise that it was because of their political 
MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
8:30a.m.  Fr. Tlwmas McNally, C.S.C.  
9:45a.m.  Fr. John Dunne, C.S.C.  
11:00 a.m.  Fr. Aidan Kavanagh, O.S.B.  
12:15p.m.  Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C.  


':::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::;:;:;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~ 
!:;~ M1chael s =~~ 
HJ,IR STYLING FOR MEI\l 
18381 Edison Rd. (% mile eaSit of A.C.C.) Ph. 272-7222 Appointments if Desired 

AW \RD WINNING· STYLI~:n ;:::s:rA 'VDARD HAIRCUTS-HAIR STr' 

:;:;: :~:lR4ZOR CUTS-HAIR STRAIGHT:JNING !:;:: ~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:::::;::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::i 
leanings. Thank you,
Nearly one thousand students I have had the privilege of Diane Shahade
attempted to donate their tic-' taking ~.:otuses under each of Eric Andrus
kets, and we had over three these gentlemen in my studies at Ja~.:k Condon
hundred monitors during the Notre Dame. I found both 
game. Alsa, more than fifty stu­
MIC From the Other Side

courses well-organized. 
dents provided transportation in well-prepared, and presented by 
their ~.:ars to the youngsters he­Dear Editor: two individuals who displayed a 
fort: and after the game. Prof. Carl Estabrook's article, keen interest in their 
Mr. Don Bouffard, the ticket ''The L.:~tter Day Leviathan" students -something have 
manager, and his staff were ex­(Observer, Nov. 13) is puzzling. found lacking in many • f my 
tremely gcn•~rous with c,eir Our vast "military-industrialL:OUrses in the past. help. The project could not h;i··e complex" is depicted as the de­I myself am con,erv, tive in 
gotten off the ground without liberate production of the armed many of my beliefs, am enrolld 
th..:m. Many other members of forces, Congress, industrialists, in an R.O.T.C. pru~r.ram at thb the community aided in their government officials, big labor, university, and disagree with own way, too. Farley Hall and a portion of the academic these men in many of their donated hot dogs for those world. All these groups are al­optnwns. However, I have children without money, Steve leged to be set on a program of 
always felt that a man should be 
Azzarelli and Pat Duerr con­global expansion. Nowhere is entitled to and respected for ·his tributed 125 "Theismann for 
there a word about communist individual viewpoints, whether 
Heisman" buttons, the cheer­conquest of the third of the or not they are ~.:ongruent with 
leaders gave 700 megaphones to earth in the last half century, the my own or with those of the 
the children, and many others fixed hostility ot the communist organizations to which I belong. helped out in their own way. Vfe to free the
world the world, Consequently, I can only view 
would also like to thank Mr. ceaseles·s endeavors of commu­this dismissal as an injustice not Sigmund Podemski, the manager to subvert non-communist
nists only to these two men, but also 
of Stepan Center, for his help. governments, the ~.:onstan t and to those students who have There are 
two people, who, as increasingly successful efforts of studied or who may have studied the heads of the Neighborhood Russia to surpass us in every
under these instru~.:tors. 
Study Help Program, deserve to branch of weaponry' the endless I hope' that the people 
be singled out for their contri­succession of Russian broken responsible for the dismissal of 
butions. John Reid and Mike promises and aggressions (Berlin, these very ~.:apable tea~.:hers will 
Heisler, along with all their cap­Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Cuba,reconsider and reverse their 
tains in the program, worked and most recently at Suez and in decision. It is indeed a tragedy 
long and hard to make this the ~.:ase of the American gener­that a man ~.:an be ~.:ondemned 
project a success. They deserve· a als breed down in Russia). The on account of the color of his 
spedal thanks for their selfless­intention behind all this was political beliefs in the home of 
ness. once summed up succinctly bythe Chairman of the United 
The children loved the game, Nikita Khrushchev: "We will States Civil Rights Commission. 
and the community of South bury you".Jim Cavanaugh Bend is grateful for the genero­Perusing Prof. EstJbrook's 121 East Navarre Street sity of the student body, as 
version of modern history one is South Bend, Indiana shown by the favourable publi­
irresistably reminded of a His­city the project received from 
tory of the Russian Revolution
Georgia Tech Tickets 
the local media. 

produced in the USSR in the Fditor: Since the project was so sue-
Stalin era. It ran to hundreds of We would like to take this cessful, we feel it has set a pages but never mentioned Leon opportunity to thank the hun-r~ precedent for many years to 
Trotsky.

dreds of the students and other come, and it is all due to the 
members of the community who efforts of over one thousand Yours sincerely,helped make the Georgia Tech Notre Dame and SJ.. Mary's stu­Bernard NorlingTicket Project a great success. dents. 







CoJtY's 
HEAD AND LEATHER SHOP OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK CORNER OF SOUTH BEND AVE & NOTRE DAME AVE 
SENIOR BAR 
LAST PRE-RALLY RALLY 
FRIDAY 5-7 HAPPY HOUR'-ISC BEER 
FIRST TIM£ IN SOUTH BEND SCHLITZ MALT ON TAP (30C) 8 O'CLOCK TIL IT RUNS OUT 
1970 STUDENT TRIP TO CALIF Pickup Ticket Packages 
Monday, 6: ~ -8:00 P.M. Coke Bar -LaFortune 
-B•l•nce ....st be ,.ld .. Roontnt•te Hlectlons ..., be ntade at this tlnte -Few se•t• stll •v•llable .. P..ne onlr Sl• (lncludlnafootb•ll ticket) 
.. p.... for Dlsneyl•nd trip will be dlscuued 


THE OBSUIIEit Page 9 

FREE COFFEE


Budget reactions varied 
STUDENT UNION RATHSKELLER 
(Continued from page I) 
would like to maintain some sort of "creative control" and concluded by saying that the amendment put "an unnecessary limit on the Student Union Ac ademic Commission." 
Senator Loring also spoke a­gainst the amendment. He felt that since the Union did the work and research in such mat­ters it should be allowed free­dom to invite speakers. 
The vote was taken and the amendment failed (20 against ­I 5 for). 
At this point the Senate changed back from Committee of the Whole to General Assem­bly. 
Senator Don Ferris proposed the Student Union allocation be upped from $35,000 to the Finance Committee recom­mendation of $37,000. He ex­plained, "Quite a few senators voted against $37,000 then (Sunday night) because of the 
•rider (Giuffrida's) attached. I didl ... But I think they need the money." 
Thrasher, a member of the Finance Committee said, "I feel quite confident that the Student Union can get by on $35,000." 
13 Havored increasing the Student Union allocation. 18 re­jected the motion. 
Steve Novak moved the Sen­ate "Accept the Committee of the Whole's Recommendation." "On the whole we've considered this budget very rationally," he said. He remarked that it was a "compromise budget" and re­minded the body of the long time it took to get through considerations on it. 
Tom Thrasher proposed an amendment to be attached to the recommendation of the Committee of the Whole. It stip­ulated that none of the $65,094 that had been budgeted be used 

to pay any expenses of the National Student Association. As Committee of the Whole the Senate had voted to allot no money to the NSA in or of itself. Thrasher's amendment passed on a close vote (I 8 in favor -16 opposed). 
The Senate then voted to ac­cept the Committee of the Whole's Recommendation, with the Thrasher amendment attach­
ed. Under the new business, peti-
ProfeSSOrS 
(Continued from page I) 
and with the department head, Professor Vincent DeSantis. Yes­terday afternoon he had no com­ment for the press. The teachers involved have had no further comment, but Professor Esta­brook is reportedly waiting until after Thanksgiving to offer a statement. 
Students Jim Leary and Jim Heitzman are circulating peti­tions concerning the tenure system. The body of the petition reads, "We the undersigned, de­mand an intensive reconsider­ation of the entire tenure system in light of the termination of the contracts of several Notre Dame professors. We believe that the student body should have con­trol proportionate to their con­tributions to the University con­cerning the decision making pro­cesses of hiring, firing, and grant­ing tenure. In order that this proportionate control have force in the current crisis, evidenced by the coming to light of various refusals to renew contracts, it should be implemented im­mediately to include the aca­demic year 1970-71. These con­ditions are to be met by Febru­ary I, I971." 
Also, Tuesday night the hist­ory graduate students are going to meet to discuss the case of the three professors. 


~eenan hangs psyche banner 
A 1 5 I foot banner is, if you . originally a hall project, but only haven't noticed, hanging in the his section showed interest, so air over the North Quad. It was they worked on it and financed done by Section Three East of it themselves. He said that the Keenan Hall and reads, "Raggers suspension system for the ban­note: Fat and Sloppy So they ner was designed by Physics saw on Saturday LSU will pay majors in the section. Ross ad­Go Irish Bag the Bongals". Ken mitted that he had wanted to get Ross, leader of that section the flag in the field during half­headed this project which he time, but could not secure per­said took several weeks to finish mission. He felt that the sign and cost over twenty dollars for served as a unifying factor for paint alone. the entire section. 
Ross said that the sign was

,......••.•..••.•••.. 
• ND -SMC Jr. Cl•n Presents : : LSU WEEKEND : 
tions mandating the Senate to call for a constitutional referen­dum were presented. They will be presented to the Election Committee for verification of signatures. 
The meeting was adjourned and the Senate will reconvene on Tuesday, December 1 at ?p.m. 
(LaFortune Basement) 
New Hours: Mon-Fri. 1? :nn 1100n-12:00 midnight Sun. 2:00p.m.-12:00 midnight 

IBE A COFFEEPEOPLI 
HOMEWARD BOUND 

STUDENT UNION'S 
BUS SALES to O'HARE 
THANKSGIVING BREAK 
Leaves: Tues, Nov. 24  ND Circle at 4:30P.M.  
Wed., Nov, 25  ND Circle at 1:00 P.M.  
Returns: Sun, Nov. 29  from O'Hare (United's ground  
floor terminal) 8:00 & l 0:00 p.m.  

Buses leave SMC Holy Cross Hall15 minutes later 
$5.00 ONE-WAY Sales at I st Bank Travel Bureau (on campus in the ground floor of Badin Hall) 9:00-12:00, I :00-4:30 Daily. 
ALL SALES FINAL 
Before: 



During: 

Student Billing Service makes Sense! There's no reason why you shouldn't enjoy the convenience of making long distance calls from your dorm room phone and receiving a monthly bill for your calls ... and yours only! 
That service is available right here, right now. Dorm residents may pick up their Student Billing Cards at the Indiana Bell Business Office. Talk it up. 
@

•• FRIDAY NOV. 20 -INDIArdA ARMORY ·., $3.00 PER COUPLE-O.Y.O. 
Indiana Bell 
• Music by: • 
• Buses leave circle: 8:30-8:50-9:15 • • ISMC: 15 min. later) 9-1 CHAPPED LIPS • 
Friday, Ncvember 20, 1970 
Page 10 THE OBSERfJDt 





leers face tough Tech 
Notre Dame's ambitious hock­ey team, anchored by a promis­ing, but inexperienced group of freshmen, opens the 1970-71 season Friday and Saturday at Michigan Tech. 
And Irish coach Charles "Lefty" Smith, confident his icers can compete with the powerful Western Collegiate Hockey Association teams that dominate the schedule, is anxi­ous to start the "live" action. 

"We couldn't pick a tougher opening opponent --it's a big step but we'll he playing this type of first class competition week after week," said Smith, starting his third season as the Irish coach. 
The weekend series at Hough­ton against Michigan Tech, the third place team in the NCAA championships at Lake Placid, 
Voices from the crowd 
Editor, 
In yesteday's paper, Mike Pavlin sang the praise of the Zahm "champions". He ad­mitted that there was a certain prejudice on his part bacause he was the Zahm captain. Does that excuse him from the trutl1? I am the proud captain of the Alumni Dogs. I say proud because of the other half of the story, which went untold in the Observer's article. 
After the first game, a loss to St. Joe's, and with cold weather setting in, the sunshine soccer players deserted; leaving a skele­ton team of ten or eleven men. They had no "stars", no su.bsti­tutes, and in the end no luck. What they did have was an over­powering will to win. Fired up by the "raw deal" given to the Alumni football team .. the Dogs set their sights on the champion· ship. 
Playing with only nine men and a goalie, Alumni defeated a full Grace team. Scrapping up enougi'J. men to field a full team, the dogs went on to defeat Lyons. It was then that the team was told they would have to play Keenan and Zahm two days succesively. Alumni met the challenge and defeated Keenan 

in a very physical game. Some of the dog players suffered injuries. However, there were no substi­tutes and the injured played against Zahm the next day. Alumni dominated the game and won 1-0. At this point in the season the dogs assumed they had won. After all, Zahm and Alumni had the same records and Alumni had beaten Zahm! Partially crippled, tired, and sore, Alumni was then told that they had to play again with only one day to recupperate. Again the dogs met the challenge. Seven A.M., the battered and weary team took their positions on the damp, dark and freezing field. Neither team was able to score in regular play. However, fate took a hand in the form of an out of bounds ball resulting in a corner kick. The ball was kicked, looping high in the air 
where it utilized a favorable gust of wind, and fell into the corner of the goal. 
Zahm is therefore the winner of the soccer tournament. But it is those ten boys who came out there that morning to play for me, who are indeed. . .the champions. 
Alumni Hall 

A spot of Caberfae, arnd what " tJOOt is Caberfae. er you're snowing, outdoors or indoors, we've jlOt "II you w~nt and ":'ore; much "'!oral 50 slopes (there must be one f?r you), the _fonest upholl transportatoon, o_ur own specially designed aeroa! snowma.kong. And ?f course, Edelw_eoss Lodge. We tbought of> every detail for mdoor snowu'!g, such as our goant game rooms, cocktails, connoisseur grade food, en:e~taonment and ~;~rrestlng lodge rooms. We laid it on you skiers and now Its your turn. P1~k up ~ phone and make reservations or day skiers call for our hot lme. ski conditions. Phone 6'16-775-9984. We're in the heart of the Manostee 
National Forest. 
Big 
M 



N.Y., last year, is the first of 20 
games with WCHA teams. Notre 
Dame, 21·8-1 last year, is 
facing Tech for the first time. 
The Friday-Saturday games 
will start at 8 P.M. (EST) in Dee Stadium (I ,969) against a team that was I 9-I 2-3 last year .while tying for second in the WCHA (14-7-3) before win­
ning the playoffs. 
. ''The hig question mark is just how quick the younger players will mature," reasoned Smith, who lists I 3 freshmen or sopho­mores among his top I 9 players.· "The difference is night and day between this year's team and the one two years ago, hut the com­petition is equally tougher," continued the Irish mentor. 
The only veteran slated to start the opening series for Notre Dame is junior goalie Dick Tom­asoni, a two-year letterman. Tomasoni allowed just 3.5 goals per game last year. 
Two talented freshmen, Eddie Bumbacco and Ian Williams, will anchor the first unit while senior co-captains John Roselli and Phil Wittliff lead the second and third lines respectively. Witt!iff led the team in goals for the second straight year as a junior with 29 while Roselli picked up 26 overall points, many coming in crucial situations. 
Michigan Tech opened the 


Cagers play in Convo 


Notre Dame basketball coach Johnny Dee, realizing less than two weeks are left before the opening of the I 970-7 I cam­paign, will put his highly re­garded squad through a final freshman-varsity scrimmage next TuesdaJ night. 
The Irish cagers, ranked as high as fourth nationally in pre­season polls, will face a talented group of freshmen in the Athlet­ic and Convocation Center start­ing at 7:30P.M. 
Admission is $1 .00 for adults, $ .50 for children under 12 and students free with ID cards. The game will be played for the benefit of the St. Joe Council for the Retarded and the Wichita State disaster fund. 
Notre Dame, 21-8 a year ago while gaining the NCAA Mideast 
Mike Anderson, Lsu•s All-American linebacker 
season last weekend with two WCHA victories at home over Wisconsin. also a NCAA finalist last year. The Huskies posted· 6-2 and 5-2 victories over the Badgers. 
Tech wach John Macinnes, the NCAA Coach of the Year last winter, will also use several outstanding freshmen, Rookie 
•
i Ole Miss Student Body says.. ! 
• !• GO IRISH, !• 
I BEAT LSU ! 
\ ................................ 
Regional semifinals, opens the season at Michigan Dec. 1(Tues­day) before returning home to meet second-ranked South Caro­lina on Saturday, Dec. 5. 
"We're right on schedule and we've also stayed clear of in­juries," explained Dee, who will anchor his attack once again around All-American Austin Carr. 
Dee, who has already sent his veteran club through four pre­season scrimmages at various sites, is pleased with the attitude and progress accomplished in the past ,;ix weeks. "With a senior dominated team you worry about attitude, but the spirit has been exceptional," reasoned Dee. 
"I still would like to make a considerable amount of improve­defenseman Jim Nahrgang and veteran Mike Usitalo anchored the victories over Wisconsin with two goals apiece. Macinnes, starting his 15th season at Tech, may use as many as three goalies -senior Dick Marshall, junior Bob Lee and sophomore Morris Trewin. 
ment in our team defense," said Dee, adding, "but the players are also very concerned and working hard to correct this.'' 
Dee will use seven players as a first unit. Carr (6-3. Sr.) will join Doug Gemmell (6-3, Jr.) on the "low post" with Collis Jones (6-7. Sr.) and John P!eick (6-8, Sr.) playing the "high post" positions. Jackie Meehan (6-1. Sr.) will play the point with Tom Sinnott (6-4, Sr.) and Sid Catlett (6-8, Sr.) waiting in re­serve alternating with the starters. 
Season basketball tickets are on sale ($35 and $25) and may be purchased hy writing the Ticket Committee, Notre Dame, Ind. Tickets may also be pur­chased at The Athletic and Con­vocation Center hox office. 

Friday, November 20, 1970 THE OBSERVER ?age u· 



Ara sees a close defensive battle 
by Terry Shields Well, the time is at hand Observer Sports Editor where Notre Dame can show the 
It's been quite a week down Tigers and their huge following irt Baton Rouge. This is the week that NO can do more than run of the game that is for the up a score against some of the Louisiana State Tigers. There weaker teams in the eountry. have been pep rallies every night The Irish must eontend with and such goings on as burning these factors if they want to the Dome in effigy have hi­come out of this contest with lighted each of these yell ses­their undefeated string. The LS U sions. To say that LSU, their defense ranks first in tht: nation fans and the entire South is against rushing. They average "up" for this game would he an 46.0 in rushing yardage given up. understatement. In total offense they give up 
The Tigers are a rugged unit 243.6 yards. They play defense! and it will be no small task for The outstanding men on their the Irish to grind out a victory. defensive platoon are linebacker Over the past two weeks The Mike Anderson, a 6'3" 225 lb. Daily Reveille (LSU student A 11-American candidate, and paper) has said some rather un­tackles John Sage (220) and Ron complimentary things about the Estay ( 233). The deep secondary Irish. Things such as "Notre contains two game-breaking Dame will probably keep Theis­style ball players. Craig Burns, mann and Gatewood in during who has returned a punt 90 the fourth quarter just to humil­yards for a touchdown, teams iate the Army.'' They call run­with Tommy Casanova to give ning up a score "Notre Dame the Bengals speed to burn. football." The offense, building gradual-

The Irish Eye 

IRISH EYE-TEM--It seems that the teams from Down South aren't satisfied with Notre Dame no matter what happens. An article in The Technique (Ga. Tech paper) unleashed a huge verbal barrage against the Irish· and coach Parseghian in particular. They don't seem to understand that on an away trip the Irish only have 45 players that can gt:t into the game. Wh'a should one do, tell the second stringers to punt on first down? 
Obviously these people are just a little jealous of a team and a man (Ara) that has a little too much class for them to cope with. 
This will be the last week that this writer will have an opportunity to pick the outcome of the top college games across the nation. The Obsen'er will not publish next week taking an early Thanksgiving vacation. 
This is the way things look in this week's BIG contests: 
Notre Dame' over LSU: Ara says this will be a close defensive struggle. The LSU Daily Reveille says that the Tigers will pull off "the upset of the eentury ." (since when is that nation's seventh ranked team beating anyone that big of an upset). I say the Irish will win. It doesn't matter by how mueh, they'll just win. 
Ohio State over Michigan: C'mon Uncle Woody, yau were just fooling everybody all along. Really you're going to let your boys play football tomorrow. That rug in your locker room that says 24-12 will look awful dumb if you don't win this one. 
Northwestern over Miehigan State: Funny thing, the Wildcats have been out of only one game this season. They should give Duffy another loss in one of his poorer seasons. It should he a close one at East Lansing, however. 
Mississippi over Mississippi State: With or without Archie our 
friends from Ole Miss should be able to blow over their intra-state 
rival. (See ad for their vote of confidence in the Irish.) 
Arkansas over Texas Tech: The Razorbacks roll on gaining 
momentum for that one last chance of redemption. Did you ever 
think that they may he the NO opponent in the Cotton Bowl? 
Nebraska over Oklahoma: The Orange Bowl-bound Huskers take 
their last step toward an undefeated season. The Sooners may well 
be up for this one in Norman but NU has far too much to be upset. 
Purdue over Indiana: The Boilermakers will keep the Old Oaken Bucket at Layfayette for still another year. This could he an exciting eon test of two Big Ten eellar-dwellers. 
Yale over Harvard: The old Bool-hoola will resound all over 
Cambridge at the end of The Game. 

USC over UCLA: An exeiting treat for night-time TV viewers. The Trojans are just getting back into the swing of things after a horrible mid-season let down. They should actually be one of the five best teams in the nation by next week. 
UPSET OF THE WEEK 

Pitt over Penn State: What else could it be in my last attempt at 
picking college ball games? 
In other games this weekend: 

Boston College over U Mass, Dartmouth over Penn, Syraeuse over 
Miami (Fla.), Virginia over Maryland, Duke over North Carolina, Tulane over North Carolina State, Clemson owr South Carolina, Kansas State over Florida State, Tennessee over Kentueky, Virginia Tech over VMI, Iowa over Illinois, Wisconsin over Minnesota. Oklahoma State over Iowa State, Missouri over Kansas, Air Foree over Colorado, SMU over Baylor, Riee over TCU, Stanford over California, Arizona State over New Mexico, San Diego State over Long Beach State. 
In games of next week: 

Texas over Texas A&M (gig'em Aggies!), Georgia Teeh over Georgia, Navy over Army (win one for ol' dad), and Notre Dame over Southern Cal. 
Last week 28 of 38 Season percentage . 760 ly after replacing ten starters times for a 37.7 average. respectful toward their opposi­
from 1969, has a steady field LSU has figured a balant:ed tion. LS U coaeh Charlie (Cholly general in senior Buddy Lee, attaek in I 970, as the rushing Mac) McClendon said of the who has averaged I OS .6 yards game has averaged 158.6 yards Irish. "The Notre Dame team per game in total offense. Lee per game and the passing game has tremendous size and great has completed 58 of I 09 passes has compiled an average of talent at key positions. Their for 85 2 yards and five touch­191.3 yards per game. Bengal execution on both offense and downs. Lee has a promising opponents, relying primarily on defense is most impressive. LS U back-up man in sophomore Bert the pass, have gained 197.6 has never had a bigger game than .Iones who has hit on 39 of 72 through the air. this one." for 688 yards and three TO's. All of these stats point to one Notre Dame eoach Parseghian 
Andy Hamilton is the leading thing. The Irish offense must be· stated, "LSU is a fine football receiver for the Fighting Tigers ready for this game. Joe Theis­team, a winning team. They are with 31 ret:eptions for 650 yards mann will be the best quarter­well coached and they have two and five touchdowns. He now bat:k that the Tigers have faced fine quarterbacks who t:an throv.• holds two LSU records with 165 so far this season. He and Tom long or short. They haven't been yards receiving in one game and Gatewood could possibly give scored on on the ground this 650 yards for the season. the LSU secondary fits. year, which is remarkable in 
Tailback Art Cantrelle, the One dark spot for the Irish is itself. When two teams ranked in workhorse of the LSU running the fact that they must go into the Top Ten get together you game has t:arried a record I 72 this game as well as the USC can expect a hum-dinger of a times this season for 593 yards contest without the services of ball game. I look for another and five touchdowns. Kkking co-captain Larry DiNardo. Di­close defensive struggle similar· specialist Mark Lumpkin with 20 Nardo was operated on last to that against Georgia Tech." career ·field goals, has tied the Tuesday and ~is definitely out If Ara is wrrect there is no LSU record set by Doug Moreau. for the season. Jim Humbert has reason for the NO campus not 
Lumpkin has kicked six field filled in for DiNardo. No other be a happy place on Saturday goals and booted 22 of 23 extra injuries except minor bump;; night. After all, the Irish did points to rank second in team and bruises have been sustained neat Georgia Tech and a similar 
searing with 40 points. Punter iJy ND. victory over LS U would be most Wayne Dit:kson has kicked 43 Both coaches have been very welcome. 
Season Statistics 
Scoring by Quarters INDIVIDUAL SCORING 
1 2 3 4 Total TDs Kick Play FG TP Notre Dame 69 48 58 74 299 Gatewood .. 7 1-1(P) 44 Opponents 7 31 21 0 59 Hempel .. .... 0 32-34 3-4 41 
Allan .......... 8 48
TEAM STATISTICS Gulyas ...... 5 30ND OPP 

Barz .......... 5 30
Total Offense ... ______ ......... 4321 1654 
Dewan ...... 3 1-1(R) 20
Total Plays .... .......... .... 761 510 
Minnix ...... 3 18
Yards per Play............ 5.7 3.2 
Theismann 2 1-4(R) 14
Yards per Game ........ 541.2 206.7 
Parker ...... 2 12
Net Yards Rushing ........ 2469 734 
Steenberge 1 6
Attempts ........... ......... 563 269 
Creaney .... 2 12
Yards per Rush .......... 4.4 2.7 
Cieszkowski 3 18
Yards per Game ........ 308.6 91.7 
Smith ......•. 0 1-1 1-3 4
Net Yards Passing ........ 1852 920 Attempts .................... 195 241 
RUSHING

Completions ................ 115 85 Completion Pet. .......... .590 .353 TC YDS AVG TD Long Had Intercepted .......... 10 18 Gulyas ........106 490 4.6 3 21 Touchdown Passes .... 14 3 Allan ..........103 394 3.8 7 16 Yards per Attempt .... 9.4 3.8 Theismann .. 95 382 4.0 2 42 Yds. per Completion .. 16.1 10.8 Barz ............ 86 349 4.0 4 14 • Yards per Game ........ 231.5 115.0 Minnix ........ 45 220 4.8 2 33 
Punt Return Yards ........ 175 234 Parker .... .... 22 178 8.0 2 33 
. 14

No. of Returns ...... ... . . . 26 Cieszkowski 37 168 4.5 3 35 Avg. per Return ........ 6.7 16.7 Dewan ........ 34 148 4.4 3 19 
Punts................................ 26 62 Parker ........ 22 178 8.0 2 63 Yards Punting . . ... . ...... 990 2248 Steenberge .. 15 45 3.0 1 10 Avg. per Punt ............ 38.0 36.3 Gallagher.... 7 44 6.2 0 14 Had Blocked .. ... . .... ..... 0 1 Trapp ............ 2 20 10.0 0 16 
Penalties . . . .... .. . . . . .. 39 26 Johnson ...... 3 16 5.3 0 6 
Yards Penalized.......... 354 293 Nightingale 3 6 2.0 0 3 Fumbles (Lost) ............18(14) 18(8) Garner ........ 1 5 5.0 0 5 Total First Downs .......... 222 96 T. Wright .... 1 2 2.0 0 2 
Rushing ...................... 132 41 Gutowski .... 1 0 0.0 0 0 Passing ........... 81 46 Penalty ......... .............. 9 9 
PASSING INDIVIDUAL TOTAL OFFENSE No Comp lnt Yds TD Pet LEADERS 
Theismann 180 108 9 1754 14 · .600 
G Plays YDS AVG Steenberge 14 7 1 98 0 .500 Theismann 8 275 2136 7.8 Yoder 1 0 0 0 0 .000 Gulyas ............ 8 106 490 4.6 Barz ................ 8 86 349 4.0 
RECEIVING Allan .............. 7 103 394 3.8 
PC YDS AVG TD Long Gatewood ... 63 974 15.5 7 39
Results: Won 8, Lost 0, Tied 0 
Creaney ..... . 12 266 22.2 2 78
N.D. 3'5, Northwestern 14 (50,409) C 
Barz ........... . 12 120 10.0 1 18
N.D. 48, Purdue 0 (59,075) C 
Tereschuk .. 3 56 18.6 0 28
N.D. 29, Michigan State 0 (76,103) C 
G':lly~s 6 159 26.5 2 46
N.D. 51, Army 10 (59,075> C 
Mmmx ....... . 1 40 40.0 1 40
N.D. 24, Missouri 7 (64,200) C 
Parker ....... . 3 34 11.3 0 21
N.D. 56, Navy 7 (45,226) 
Allan ......... . 9 149 16.6 1 54
N.D. 46, Pitt 14 (59,075) C 
Trapp ......... . 3 27 9.0 0 13
N.D. 10, Georgia Tech 7 (59,075) C Cieszkowski 1 9 9.0 0 9 Dewan ....... . 1 3 3.0 0 3TEAM SCORING 
Yoder ......... . 1 15 15.0 0 15
ND OPP Total Points ........ 299 59 
7.4 • RETURNS (No. -Yds.-TDs)
Avg. per Game . 37.4 No. of TDs . .............. 41 8 
Int. Punts Kickoffs by Rushing ................ 27 4 Stepaniak .... 5-39-0 by Passing.................. 14 3 Ellis .............. 7-25-0 3-18-0 by Returns .................. 0 1 Kelly ............ 2-15-0 Field Goals (Att-Made) 7-4 1-4 Webb ............ 1-11-0 Safeties ................ 1 0 Wright ........ 1-0-0 PAT-Kick ....................... 33-35 8-8 Crotty .......... 1-0-0 13-60-0 2-19-0 PAT-Run ........................ 2-3 0-0 O'Malley ...... 1-18-0 PAT-Pass ........................ 1-3 0-0 Schlezes ....... . 7-77-0 
Nightingale 2-9-0 4-77-0' INDIVIDUAL PUNTING Parker ......... . 1-3-0 3-46-0 NO. YDS AVG Long Dewan ......... . 1-20-0 Yoder .......... 25 949 37.8 52 Allan ........... . 2-30-0 
Roolf .......... 1 41 41.0 41 Minnix·········-1-3-0 
_P~a~g_e_l2------------------------------------------~---------~~--~--~().~~~.~~ ___________________________________F_r_id_a~y~·-N_o_ve_m_b_e_r_2_0~,_19_7_0 


Thoughts of a third team guard 
by Terry Shields Observer Sports Editor 
What kind of person would go out day after day to get ham­mered and knocked around by some of the best college football players in the nation? Somebody that should be in a strait jacket? Possibly. A person with tn:men­dous masochistic tendencies? Also very likely. 
If you talk to Kent Hilde­brand, however, a guard on the Notre Dame prep squad, you probably wouldn't come away with those feelings at all. "Hildey" (as he is more com­monly known by his friends) is just a guy that wanted to play football and at the same time get a good education. 
Before the start of this season, 
Hildebrand had played the role 
of a prepper for the first unit for 
three seasons without ever even 
dressing for a game. He finally 
got his big reward at the fi~st home game when he wore that blue jersey for the first time in "the real thing." 

Surely there must be some. driving motive that would keep a man going out to practice day after day knowing that he may never get into a ball game. Hildey explains his actions, "I guess the main reason why I went out for the team is that I just like to play football. Also, I'd like very much to coach on a high school level and I can't think of any other place in the world better than Notre Dame to learn football." 
For Kent, the drive to even make the team has been a hard one. He was injured for his entire junior and senior years in high school. When he came to ND he was very far behind most other player~ as far as experience goes. Says the senior from Elgin, Illinois "Actually I haven't played in a real game for five years. I sort of laugh to myself thinking about all the practices I've gone through and never ac­tually utilized what I've learned. 
One might think that, after a while, practice might become somewhat of a drag, especially if there isn't much chance of play­ing in the game on Saturday. 
Hildebrand didn't think so. "Ac­tually this season has been the real fun for me. Before this year I had a shot at the record for never dressing for a game. I hit 23 games in a row. Then Purdue came and broke that string. That's one record that I wasn't to excited about holding." 
Most people might get the impression that the starters could feel aloof from the third team players but Hildey explains that nothing like that is true. "The starters treat us pretty square. There is no rift between 
Yeah, DillOn has a team too 
by Terry Shields Observer Sports Editor 
In yesterday's OBSERVER there was an article concerning the Keenan Hall football squad and their drive toward the Inter­hall championship of ND. Upon reading the article a group of men from the South Quad felt that it would be just if their team got a little publicity too. After all, there will he two teams playing in the championship game this Sunday. 
Dillon Hall's record is a very impressive 4-0-2 on the season. They were tied by powerful Alumni and Off-Campus. They also tied Morrissey but after no decision was r<!ached in regula­tion or overtime play the victory was awarded to Dillon on the basis of most first downs (9-5). 
Even though the battle for the 
South Quad championship was 
close, season stats might indicate 
that the best team is represen­

ting the South. Dillon has scored 80 points in their six contests (not bad, considering play is made with a running clock). Coach Bill Fiorini's squad has rushed for over I00 yards per game and· added 50 aerial yards., 
The offense is led by halfback Steve Ising, the leading scorer with six touchdowns. John Amato is a crafty signal caller who is a dangerous scrambler. Don Vicars is the leading re­ceiver and Mark Longar, a co­captain, provides tremendous blocking out of the backfield. 
The offensive line has done a fine job this season and the offensive stats serve as testimony for this. To gain that much yardage in Interhall you must have a strong line. Dillon has it. 
Offense, however, isn't the South Quad champs only forte. Their defensive unit has held the opposition to minus five yards on the ground per game! The fearsome fivesome of Dillon's line includes co-captain Mik<) Dacey, Mike "Animal" Cunning­ham, Todd Carey, Bill Niezer and Dennis .Sobolewski. 
The linebacking corps which stops any leaks in the line is led by Jim Dahl, a four year Inter­hall veteran. Paul Michaels is the top defensive back. 
Dillon feels that its strength lies in the fact that they have a two platoon system with 22 starters. Thus at the end of many games when the other squad may have ten men who have been going both ways Dillon has a fresh unit on the field. There is no real standout on the team and Dillon feels that this team effort is a key factor. 
In short, Dillon simply wants the campus to know that it too will be at The Stadium on Sun­day when they and Keenan meet for the Notre Dame champion­ship. 
NEW LOW FARES 
50UlH BEND --CHICAGO 
For 
Fast, conPenient Chicago at 

Vacation...Shopping...Theater...Concerts 
Sightseeing...Museums...Recreation 
service to and from South side and downtown frequent daytime and el•ening hours 2:: weekday trains daily 14 trains Saturday and Sunday 
Now -New low fares that save up to 30 percent 
Per Cent 
Old F•re New F•re S•vinas 
One W•:r  $4.35  
Round Trip  $8.70  
IO·rlde  $35.85  
25-rlde  $79.25  

30-day 
For information ­Convenient bus service 
$3.10 29% $8.10 30% $29.45 17% $89.75 12% 
limit from date of sale· 

Call Ticket Agent at 233-3111 (except Sunday) between Notre Dame, 
St. Mary's and our modern new station at 2702 West Washington Avenue. Free Parking 24 hour cab service 
s;OUTH SHORE LINE 
units. This could possibly be due 
to the fact that some of the 
starters were once on the prep 
team too. They know what it's 
like so they understand the 
problems we face. The coaching 
staff also shows interest in us. 
Coach John Murphy helps us out 
a great deal. If we make a 
mistake we hear about it. Also 
we get complimented if we do 
well. Ara is up on his tower for 
most of the practices but if he 
sees that we're doing well he 
says 'Nice picture' meaning that 
we are simulating our coming 
opponents well." 

Some of the men on the prep squad have obvious reasons for staying on the team, for ex­ample, they are on scholarship and thus they get a free educa­tion out of the deal. Hildey and a few other m~n on the team are walk-ons however and they are out there only because they want to be. 
Kent explained the difference between the way a first team player may psych himself for the upcoming game and a prepper's outlook. "Of course I can't get as high for a game as somebody that knows they'll be out there playing but I do get involved in what's happening." 
The big chance for a member of the prep squad to advance comes in the spring. Hildey ex­plains, "You get a pretty fair deal in the spring. That's when you have your chance to show what you've got. By this method 
some guys get moved up." So tomorrow Hildey will dress, along with all of the other seniors on the team, for tl-teir last home game. The opponent is a tough LS U squad and it is unlikely that Coach Parseghian will even get to use his second team that much, never mind the third unit. You could see that twinkle in Hildey's eyes when you mention the prospect of getting into that game. He didn't want to say that that is what he truly wants because he wanted to be realistic. What he did say was "I probably got my reward already by just playing with this team. Heck, I want a National Championship as much as any­body. You have to play the guys that will get the job done." Tonight is the last rally for the seniors. Tomorrow is the last home game. Hildey and all the other prep squad members are unlikely to get into the game. Wouldn't it be great if, when Ara introduces all the seniors, the students cheered a little louder and longer for guys named Tim Sigrist, Pete Schivarelli, Frank Bossu, Jae Maxim, Kent Hilde­brand and a number of other men who have given four years of hard work for their school? These guys may never be re­warded by getting into a game. It might be rewarding enough to at least know that their friends appreciate what they've done. Wouldn't it be great if that could happen? 


Just for the recOrd 
t·ompiled by Mike Pavlin 
TEAM~ GENERAL 

1) (New Record) Consecutive Games Scoring (incl. Cotten Bowl) ­49 TEAM ~-SEASON 
I) (Record Tied) 2-pt. PAT's Made -3 2) PAT%-.942, .943 3) Safeties-2, I 4) Touchdown Passes-18, 14 5) Rush Attempts--663. 563 6) Pass Yardage --21 05, I 852 7) Pass Yardage/Game -210.5, 231.5 8) Completion%-.583, .589 9) Total Offensive Plays-909, 758 
10) Total Offensive Yardage-5014,4321 
II) Total Offensive Yards/Game -5 04 .4, 540.1 INDIVIDUAL-SINGLE GAME 
I) (Record Tied) Touchdown Pass Receptions -Tom Gatewood 3 INDIVIDUAL-SEASON 
I) (New Record) Total Offensive Yardage -1oe Theismann 2136 
2) (New Record) Pass Receptions -Tom Gatewood 63 3) Pass Attempts-210, Theismann 180 4) Completions-116, Theismann I 08 5) Completion%-.589, Theismann .600 
6) Pass Yardage -206 2, Theismann 17 54 
7) Touchdown Passes -16, Theismann 14 
8) Total Offensive Plays-308, Theismann 275 
9) 2-pt. PAT's Scored Made -2, Theismann, Gatewood, Dewan 1 each I 0) Reception Yardage -1114, Gatewood 974 
II) Touchdown Pass Receptions--9, Gatewood 7 
12) Pass Interceptions-9, Clarence Ellis 7 INDIVIDUAL-CAREER 
I) (New Record) PAT Attempts-Scott Hempel 130 
2) (New Record) PAT's Made -Hempel 120 
3) (New Record) Field Goals--Hempel 14 
4) (New Record) Touchdown Passes-Theismann 31 
5) (New Record) Total Offensive Yards-Theismann 5034 
6) (New Record) Total Performance Yards-Theismann 5146 
7) (Record Tied) Touchdown Pass Receptions -Gatewood 16 8) PAT'~ -.914, Hempel .923 9) Completion%-.567, Theismann .580 
I 0) Yards/ Attempt -8.38, Theismann 8.85 
II) Total Offensive Plays --731, Theismann 729 
12) Total Performance Plays -7 51, Theismann 750 
13) Passes Broken Up -· I9, Clarence Ellis 18 










