
Pope addresses Australian youth 

SMC Student Assembly voices complaints 
by Jeanne Sweeney Some of the demands which They also discussed the recent one attitude or way of thinking nouncement that a presidential teacher dismissals of Father be represented by the faculty. candidate will be interviewed
Discussion about student were voiced by the assembly 
Runde and Dr. Hickemeyer. They also feared that the recent next week on campus and will
complaints and demands at St. members included reforms in the policies of the Board of Trus­There is still some confusion as actions of the administration be talking with students on
Mary's College was the primary 
would intimidate the faculty. Thursday, Decembe.r 10. 
topic of concern at the Student tees. The Trustees' removal from to who made the decision to dismiss these teachers. They insisted that the whole SMC was going to print up itsAssembly on Tuesday night. the reality of student's concerns 
and lives on campus was a basic Ann Marie Tracey said that, community make decisions in own course evalutation using the concern of the student leaders. although Dr. Detzler was very the future and that previous Observer's printing facilities. 
unilateral decisions made by cer­However, the Observer was un­
..···~a' ....mm••' 
The question of whether the co-operative in explaining the 

tain administrators be in the able to do so because of tech­
minutes of the Board of Trus­procedure by which a teacher is future eliminated. nical and staff limitations, on
tees' meetings should he kept dismissed, he would not g9 into Final plans for further action such short notice.

confidential or made available to details in order to protect the by the student body will be

the· students was also brought teachers. Also discussed was the 
up. '·The assembly, in connection discussed by the president's cabi­possibility of a student govern­
Another complaint concerns with the teacher dismissals, also net. ment contribution to the Father 
Other topics of conversation
the Board of Trustees' agendas wanted to insure that more than McGrath Memorial Scholarship. 
at the meeting included the an-
which always consider student policy last. Ann Marie Tracey, who sits 

King aide discusses problems
on the Presidential Search com­mittee, also suggested that the Board of Trustees meet with the ments were concentrated in the
by Kevin McGill exclusion, he said, was Arnold Ann-Marie Tncey Search committee to give the Toynbert, the British historian, local community black churches. leaders have received no re­who claimed that black people
committee some idea of which Claiming to be a black nation­
Dr, Wyatt Tee Walker pro­

sponse from the administration qualities are most important to fessor at Princeton and an as­had not made any important alist, while not necessarily a them in selecting a president. black separist, Dr. Wyatt said
concerning their recent state­sociate of Martin Luther King, comtributions to world civiliza­A very important demand of that tte saw a big difference
ment, which questions St. spoke in the library auditorium tion. Most of today's history
the assembly concerned the between "militarism and insani­
Mary's dedication to the quali­last night on causes and solu­books and anthropology books selection of a president without ty." He now advocates
ties of a Christian College com­tions of black problems in are based on Toynbee's works. further delay so that the College non-violent work within the
munity, the a~sembly considered Thus a great deal of unconscious
America.

might function in a more normal system to achieve the ends of
further measures to bring pres­polarization has crept into so­fashion. the black people. And the "best
sure to bear on the administra­ciety from "lily-white text
Professor Joseph Scott, Direc­

The assembly also demanded way to get Rig Brother's atten­
tion and Board of Trustees. books."
tor of the Program of Black

that they play a part in the final tion is to choke his flow ofThe assembly hopes to pre­
Studies at Notre D~ me, intro­

decision as to what direction St. dollars." However Dr. Wyatt ad­sent a petition to the student duced Dr. Wyatt as "a rare per­Whenever black people are
Mary's College will take in the mitted that in tf'.e end the rightsbody for their >upport, which 
future, whether towards co­son," "a real Jive, true black mentioned, their role has been of human life supercede the
will define what they expect the college to consider for the wel­education or remaining a sepa­freedom fighter." He told the "'eontrived, distorted, and most­committment to non-violence. rate institution. small audience that they were ly omitted." Dr. Wyatt said, ''if
fare of the students. 
privileged to be in the presence you destroy a man's sense of He stated that Christianity in of a true revolutionary. history, you destroy his hope."
ND has 319 foreign students 
America is not the original re­ligion of Christ. "Jesus is black­The University of Notre Dame Law School. Thirty-three fresh­

America is racist, Dr. Wyatt black is not a color, it is a
Dr. Wyatt sketched the recent
is host this year to 31 9 inter­men are completing the Year of national students from 49 coun­Studies program before entering claimed, even though it is invol­history of civil rights, and said situation." untary, recessive racism.
tries, including 20 I graduate stu­one of the ~our colleges. that spin-off results, such as anti-poverty and quality educa­Dr. Wyatt claimed that al­
dents and 118 undergraduates, Taiwan, with 48 students en­tion, hilVe benefitted society as a thougll great strides have been
according to a report issued by Dr. Wyatt said that the major Rev. Dan O'Neil, C.S.C., director rolled at Notre Dame, produces reason for the racism is the whole. He stated that at the very made in civil rights since 1950, of the office of international the greatest number of foreign ''crime of tlie Western center of the revolutionary white America has made gains student services. students. Other major home­historian." He stated that "the 
movement is the Black Church. too, at a faster pace, so that the College of Engineering leads lands inc! ude Canada, 43; India, premeditated and calcualted ex­The Black Church is the freeest black people are actually further all academic units with 92 for­37; Hong Kong (United King­clusion of the black man's role part of black society; the black be!1ind the whites than in 1950. dom), 15; Panama, 12; and ministers and preachers are ac­He forsees hope for the future
eign students. There are HI in from the American experience 
Columbia, Cuba and Japan, each countable only to black men. arrising from both the ferment
the College of Arts and Letters, and from world civilization has 81 in the College of Science, 29 with nine. There are five stu­produced in our western world a During the past years, the leader­in the black society, and the in the College of Business Ad­dents from Ireland and four each racist ~society whose only norm ship and planning of the civil freshness of the white col­ministration, and three in the from France and Germany. is skin color." Principle in this rights and revolutionary move­
lege-age generation. 

SYDNEY, Australia (UP!) Pope Paul VI gave qualified en­dorsement yesterday to world wide youth protests but warned against rejecting hisory's lessons. 
The 73 year old pontiff looked tanned from 15 hour days in the Australian spring sunshine appearing oblivious to the 80 degree heat and humidity as he addressed a special youth mass at Randwick Racetrack. Earlier he toured homes for the elderly and a children's hospital. 
It was the Pope's second ap­pearance at the track in 15 hours and his final public mass on his four day stay in Australia as part of a 29,000 mile tour of Asia and the Pacific. 
Ray of light "In the very dissatisfaction that torments you and in your critici:;m of society there is a ray of light" the pontiff told 150,000 young people. "In that society there unfor­tunately are every day more aggressive new acts new attitudes 
and behavior patterns which are not Christian" the Pope said. "When you denounce them and ask that society eliminate them and replace them with values authentically based on real jus­tice, real sincerity, real moral rectitude and real brotherhood you are indeed right. 
"You have not only the ap­probation but the full support of the church." 
"But be attentive to the man­ner in which you treat this mat­ter and make this effort for if you turn back on yourselves, if you set yourselves as supreme judges of the truth, if you reject the past wholesale ... then the world will not be noticeably better even if it is different..." 
The young people strained to catch the pontiffs words spoken in his montone, thickly accented English but as he finished they stood and applauded, waving hats, handkerchiefs, souvenir mass books and smali Vatican flags. 
Paul responded with smiles signs of blessings and a gesture he had not before used in Aus­

tralia-raising  both  arms  in  a  
V-sign.  
Then  the  pontiff  gave  com­ 

munion to 27 young people in­cluding girls in miniskirts, several of them bareheaded. 
Tours Home 
In a tour of an old people's home the Pope told the aged residents "You must not have in this period of your life a feeling of failure or disillusionment. Old age is truly a stage of life. It is the fulfillment of adult life." 
At the children's hospital the Pope distributed toys collected by the Vatican and blessed a rosary handed him by a sick 14 year old aborigine girl from Aus­tralia's outback region. As he lifted a baby for a kiss the Pope asked a nurse, "It is a girl?" 
"No, your holiness. It's a boy." the nuse said. The Pope broke into a broad 

smile and moved through the hospital. 
The Pope led an ecumenical service in Town Hall Wednesday night with representatives of II other denominations ranging from the Greek Orthodox church to the Salvation Army. 
The prayer service attended by an estimated 2,000 persons concluded the Pope's last full day in Australia. He is scheduled to depart today for Jakarta In­donesia, the sixth stop on his eight nation tour of Asia and the South Pacific. 
Before the Pope arrived at. Sydney's Town Hall police and some who had come to attend the service dispersed demonstra­tors carrying painted placards reading "Christ Gives and Rome Takes" and "There Were Protestant Martyrs in Rome too." One of the demonstrators rode a donkey bearing a sign criticizing the pontiff's "wealth." 
As the Pope entered the hall 
an extremist Protestant minister stood up in the congregation and removed his coat to display signs written on his shirt front and back: "No Authority but the Bible" and "No Priests but Jesus Christ." The minister who was led from the hall by police was later identified as the Rev. Fred­erick Channing, a northern Irish­man who is pastor of a fundamentalist Presbyterian church in Palmerston, New Zealand. 
Not aware 
Vatican officials accom­panying the Pope said he was not aware of the demostration outside the hall. But the pontiff could not have missed the depar­ture of a number of persons who said they believed in Channing's principles who walked out after the 45 minute ecumenical ser­vice was under way. 
The Pope told the congre­gation the price for Christian unity is high and cannot be 
(Continued o"n page 8) 
f' 

ning the operation and paying its  
help.  
The idea behind the co-op is  
two-fold.  It  creates  a  central  
location for the students to bring their books and it allows for a greater profit tha~ the student would be able to obtain from the book store.  •.".:'  
Pohl  stated  that the Student  
Union  has  received  no  "flak"  
from  the  administration  
concerning this effort so far.  
Mr.  Pohl  has  hopes  that the  
co-op  program will continue to  
grow and expand so that all ND  
students will be able to have the  
opportunity  to  sell  their  used  
books.  
After the sales are concluded,  
Student  Union  will  hold  onto  
unsold books for  a few days so  
that  students  will  be  able  to  
reclaim  them.  Those  books  
which are left unclaimed will be  
donated  to  the  Michigan  State  
Penitentiary.  
Details of the operation will  
be forthcoming from Bill Mc­Grath, who is coordinating the  Student Union Director Bob Pohl  
sales.  

Page 2 
Attention 

Observer 


~.1y staff member who wis.1es to know the time and location of t.l1e Obsel' ver Citristmas party may call 7471 before Friday, 5 
pm. 

abroad in periods of turbulent 


JACK ' WHITE 

Internationally Famous 

Pocket Billiard and Trick Shot Artist 

WILL BE APPEARING: TciURSDA Y -DEC. 3 Sponsored by 2:00P.M.-LAFORTUNE POOL ROOM Student Service 9:00P.M.-SENIOR BAR 
December 3, 1970

THB a&ri'.RIIM. 



Student book co-op to _operate in spring 
by Charlie Myers 
Director Robert Pohl announ­ced that the Student Union would again run its student book co-op for the spring semester '70-'71. 
The operation will . be run basically the same as this past semester. A center will be -set up in the Fiesta Lounge for stu­dents to bring their used books, with the price being set by the students themselves. Student Union will ask I0% of each book price to cover the cost of run-


Art F•lr 
Dec. 6 2 pm -11 pm 
2:00-"A GUIDE TO THE ART OF THE CONCERT VOCAUST" with Maestro Poco Piu, Madame Sogo Voce and Frau Capella Fingersertig 
3:00-Art Sale, Moreau Art Gallery 9:30p.m.-Ruck Concert, featuring Melting Pot, at Coffeehouse. Donation of $1.50 covers all 
..­


' 
Hair Styling
t for ND men the Continental Way Razor Cutting 3t: Stvle
t 

Europea:n Layer Shaping for Long Hair 
I t 
Have Long Hair & Be Well Groomed 
306 S'lerland Bldg.
t 
South Bend, l11d. t 234-0811 
Let Miss Treva & The Baron t Serve & Pamper Yau 
I
Student Rates 
t 


Neimeyer's views In publication 
Assuming that Communism will eventually run its course, Dr. Gerhart Niemeyer, professor of government and international studies at the University of Notre Dame, takes a look at the post-Communist world in the January issue of Pacific Com­munity, a Tokyo-based publica­tion. This is the same paper he read in a lecture in the Library Auditorium last month. 
"It would seem likely," Nie­meyer says, "that great indus­trial centers of the Christian and Confucian tradition would com­pete with each other to achieve a qualitative order of human exis­tence under conditions of large­scale industrial production and voluminous trade." The author notes that both Christianity and Confucianism, imported from unrest, have demonstrated through many centuries the ability to erect and maintain p-olitical structures with a high degree of stability. 
Niemeyer sees in the post­Communist world rulers in Mos­cow and Peking who would look on themselves as stewards of their respective nations and ser­vants of their respective peoples, rather than as leaders of "a injlitant band marching to a utopian future." Currently fashionable ideologies have de­veloped neither organiza tiona! structure nor strategic discipline and are therefore unlikely ever to attain or hold ruling power in a country, according to the po­litical theorist. 
"After the demise of Com­munist power," Niemeyer notes, "the most salient fact would probably be the clustering of great industrial productivity in three or four centers of the world: Western Europe, Russia, North America, and East Asia. The cultural differences of these centers would seem to play a more significant role in their 
mutual relations and conditions 
than the relatively similar eco­
nomic and technical structures. 
"One foresees here not so much conflict as noble rivalry, competitive efforts on behalf of the good human life," Niemeyer 
says. "Insofar as thi.s kind of 
rivalry might be retlected in in­
ternational relations, the shape 
of these relations for the first 
time will not depend on intra­
Western difficulties but on a 
confrontation-albeit a peaceful 
one--between West and East." 

Niemeyer postulates that dur­
ing the century following the 
demise of Communist power, 
"the main problem for the 
peoples of the West will be Asia, 
and for the peoples of Asia it 
will be the recovery of a gen­
uinely made-in-Asia political or­
der reconcilable with an im­
ported industrial system. 

"For both sides," he con­cludes, "The regaining of quali­tative order would largely de­pend on whether they find it possible, in the presence of large-scale industrial production and high-rapidity trade, to find possibilities of men being men without having to talk or do, just by being in each other's presence." 
Niemeyer, a member of Notre Dame's faculty since 1935, em­phasized that while he is sure that the historical phenomenon of Communism will pass, he does not mean to imply that it has already done so. His latest book, in fact, is entitled Deceit­ful Peace: A New Look at the Soviet Threat. 
r--------------­
December 3, 1970 TH1~ Q&S'.IRfiEil Page 3 




Computing Science ltepartment to disb~nd? 
be weighing practical cortsidera-attempted to talk bnefly With ment on campus. (The const per umvers1ty s regulatiOns. 
by Dave Bach 
When the Academic Council meets ·a week from today, one of the items on the agenda will be a proposal to disband the Com­puting Science Departmen't. 
This bombshell hit the depart­ment shortly before the Thanks­giving break. It has left in its wake ~.:on fusion, pure and simple. No one in the depart­ment has been able speci~"ically to determine why the proposal is to be made or where it origin­ated. And those in the admin­istration who know won't say. As a result the professors and students have been preparing for the worst despite assurances from the administration that nothing has been settled one way or the other because the .•cademic Council has not yet met to consider the proposal. 
The university, according to its contracts must make "every effort" to find other positions with the university for the ten­ured faculty members, Donald Mittelman and Henry Thacher, in the event that the department is disbanded. The four assistant professors' three-year contracts expire at different times within the next three years and the university will have to honor their contracts. For most there will be little problem in finding positions, either in industry or academia, because of their pro­fessional experience. Their great­est diffkulty, probably, would 
tions like housing and the schooling of children. 

The students, especially the juniors, are Jess protected. The seniors will have no problems since their requirements will be fulfilled either this semester or next. But the sophomores and juniors, who for the most part are assuming that the depart­ment will be disbanded, are faced with looking for a new major or a new school. Either of 
·which could possibly mean loss of credits. Bernard Waldman, Dean of the College of Science and Acting Chairman of the Computing Science Departmef!t ment, says that the college will give special help to students ~.:hanging majors. And some of the faculty members and stu­denb have been tryi.ng to work out ~.:ontacts with recognized leaders in the field (Stanford, Princeton, Purdue, Michigan) to speed up the transfer process. 
In another way, the students are currently under a heavier pressure than the faculty be­cause they will be pre-registering for second semester ~.:ourses this week without the knowledge of whether their major will be in existence after the end of the year. Some have joked about taking 15 or 18 hours of CS courses next semester, but obviously th~:y don't think it's funny. 
A group of CS juniors 

Gallery Board formed 
The formation of the Moreau Art Gallery Advisory Board has been announced by the director of the Gallery at Saint Mary's College, Mr. ·Richard-Raymond Alasko. The Board, whose mem­bership includes leading pro­fessional and academic represen­tatives from the world of art, will hold its first meeting in Moreau Hall on Saturday, De­cember 5. 
The Advisory Board will seek to provide practical and pro­fessional counsel in three major areas of concern to the Moreau Art Gallery. It will be respon­sihle for the selection of the exhibition schedule for the 
forthcoming academic year and will propose a program of 
speakers, visiting artists and pub­lications. The third area of con­cern will be acquisition for· the Moreau Gallery's permanent col­lection. 
The Honorable John Brad­ACC 
emas, Indiana Third 

District 1-------------...,.
Congressman, has accepted the honorary chairmanship. Joining him on the Advisory Board are artist Margo Hoff, New York City; Sally Fairweather, director, Fairweather-Hardin Gallery, Chicago; Alice W. Nichols, In­diana Arts Commission and director. Ball State University Aft Gallery; artist Susan Maguire, instrudor, Marymount College and Saint Mary's nation­al alumna representative; Mrs. Sig Weiher. Saint Mary's art alumna, South Bend; Reverend Anthony Lauck, director, Uni­versity Art Gallery, University of Notre Dame; and Roman A. 
Radecki, director, Radecki Art Galleries, South Bend. 
Representing the academic 
1 ne Observer Is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame ~nd St. M~ry's COllege. SubScriptions may be purch~sed for $8 from The Ob­server, Box 11, Notre O.me, Ind. 46556. second class Pa&tiVII p~ld, NQtre D~me, Ind. 46556. 
community on the Advisory Board are: Sister Jeanne Finske, C.S.C., ·academic dean, Saint Mary's College; Sister Miriam Patrick Canney, C.S.C., chair­man, department of mathe­matics, Saint Mary's College; Harold Zisla,. chairman, depart­ment of .art, Indiana University, South Bend; Catherine Naphin, student, Saint Mary's College; and Kevin Booher, student. Uni­versity of Notre Dame. 
DRAFTiNG 1ABLE: 
FOR SALE New-(used only 2 months); Art student dropped out; Adjustable top; All wood; 36" x 42"; 
T·Squares.
Mrs. Colt 288-1728 73" E E · s B d
·' ast wmgs, , o. en 

,....._____,_,..;;:....;....-----c 
CREW TEA!\1 
Pictures 
4:30 FRIDAY 2nd FLOOR CONCOURSE 
WELCOME FRESHI~lE1~! AND OLO Tlr\1ERS! 
N.D. Barbershop __ s. 
8:00 a.m. to 4:45 Sat. 8: a.m. to 11:45 Open 5% days a week 
Serving N.D. men over 100 years .411 types of Haircut~ 
:'Jeed a Haircut for Vacation! 
PARfY 
Sponsored by 
THE GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
Party Time Between Thanksgiving Vacation and Finals 
Time: 9 pm. 1 am Date: Dec. 6, 19"70 (Sun) Place: The Black Mikado Entertainment: 
A Live Band Price: $4 per couple $2.50 single Liquids: Hard & Beer Tickets Available in L fbrary Mezzanine 
both university president Rev. Theodore Hesburgh and provost Rev. James Burte haell. A~.:cording to the students, Hes­hurgh to! d them that they would be able to fulfill their require­ments through other depart­ments in the university. Asso­ciate Provost Rev. Ferdinand Brown, C.S.C., told this reporter only that many people had come to him asking about the situa­tion hut that he was unable to 
Observer Insight 

say anything other than that the proposal definitely would be on the Agenda for the Dec. 10 A~.:ademic Council meeting. All of which has led to considerable speculation, all unconfirmed, about why the proposal is being presented. The most obvious consideration, in light of the university's recent financial t roubles, seems to involve money. The complaint is that the const per credit hour in CS·is higher than any other depart-
credit hour is figured by dividing  The current statistics bear out  
the department's budget hy the  the fact that  more  students are  
total  numb.er  of  credit  hours  enrolling  in  the  ·department's  
taught  during  the  academic  program.  Each  class has  grown  
year.) But computer time is con- slightly since there are only five  
sidered  in  the Computing Cen­ seniors buf about 15 juniors and  
ter's  budget and not in that of  20  sophomores.  But  according  
the department, and it is estim­ to  Dean  Waldman,  these  
ated that only about ten per cent  numbers  are  nowhere  near  the  
of the computer time is used by  numbers that  were  predicted in  
the  department  anyhow.  1964  when  the  Computing  
Most  of  those  in  the  de- Center  was  first  organized.  In  
partment  feel  that  this  factor  fact,  Walsman,  said,  the  

alone is not substantial enough, introductory programming 
to merit the disolution of the department. They say that the cost per credit hour will go down as more students are attracted to the program. They 
point  out  that  the  department  
has  only  been  approved  on  a  
four-year  trial  basis  by  the  

Academic Council since Novemb.er, 1968. In fact, it was only this fall that the department was officially separated from the Computing Center. Prior to that the Computing Center and its instruc­tiona! program were combined in an institute as defined by the course has actually shown a decline in students. The main reason for that decline is that many departments are now of­fering their own courses in FOR­TRAN IV, the language used on the Center's Univac 1107 com­puter. 
Mittelman, who until this year had been Director of the Com­puting Center, commented that the effect of these other courses has been predictable. "If you allowed other departments to teach basic math course and dropped the requirements. en­
(Continued on page 8) 


B ~

etore: 

During: 


Student Billing Service 
makes Sense! There's no reason why you shouldn't enjoy the convenience of making long distance calls from your dorm room phone and receiving a monthly bill for youT calls ... and yours only! 
' 

That service is available right here, right now. Dorm residents may pick up their Student Billing Cards at the Indiana Bell Business Office. Talk it up. 
@ 
ffidiana Bell 
Page4 THE OBSERVER. 




THE OBSERVER 
Reveal Some Facts 
The University has cloaked the proposed abolition of the Computer Science program with considerable secrecy. an ominous note in itself to a thoroughly unsettling situation. The thirty-five juniors and sophomores who will most dearly suffer if their major is eliminated will not appreciate the Administration's quiet. Nor will the faculty members, some of whose jobs are threatened. · 
Because the motive behind the move has been so secret, all sorts of cruel and hurtful speculation has developed. Is the University so in debt that it must start eliminating classes? Then the University is truly in trouble; it is regressing from the bold committment it has to educate students in the diverse natures of knowledge. If the Computing Science department is cut next week, when may we expect a cut in the Sociology department? Or the History department? Or English? 
The proposed cut, coming on the heels of the mysterious refusal to grant tenure to three professers, leaves a nagging sense of disaster swirling around the Golden Dome. Are we really in bad financial shape? If so, what is the University to do about it? And who will it hurt? 
Why was Donald Mittleman -an obvious choice -passed over for department head? Why is there such a crisis of leadership? What will it mean? 
The University owes students some answers. We cannot exist in this ambiguous vacuum forever. Start explaining, please. 
·------·Letters to the Editor-------· 
Editor: been calling attention to since he Dr. Hinkemeyer are not' "divisive 
On hearing of the refusal of has been at Notre Dame, that forces" in this community. I the History Department to the academic establishment does don't know· of two people who renew the contracts of John indeed consider readical , poli­have done more for bettering the Williams and Carl Estabrook, tical, and social ideas as danger­relationship between the faculty 
ous and thus feels the need of and the students. Were they
students who have had these men for courses have immediate­repressing them. Thus it is utter fired because they happen to be 
nonsense to talk about the dan­outspoken against St. Mary's
ly in a state of disbelief asked 'Why?'. Most of these students gers of politicizing the Univer­maintaining her identity? Is it sity since the University is so
re~ognize John and Carl as excel­because they are in favor of a lent teachers, many claim that fundamentally politicized al­merger with Notre Dame? Or is ready.
they are among the best profes­it because they are a threat to sors on the entire campus. Their the control of St. Mary's College disbelief is considerably in­by the Holy Cross Order since
William Manley creased in light of Father Hes­they are supporting so vocifer-. burgh's widely publicized sugges­ously a co-ed program with tion that what American univer­Notre Dame? I suspect this is sities need most of all is "excel­their real motive. lent teaching". As a senior his­What I find so frustrating is
Editor:

tory major I think I can right­that there is nothing I can do
I am writing this letter in

fully claim with many of my about changing the narrow­
regard to the "rumor" you print­

fellow students that the quality -minded, conservative attitudes
ed in Thursday's Observer that

of the History Department will of certain people in the admini­
Dr. Michael Hinkemeyer and

be considerably weakened by stration here at St. Mary's. The
Father Raymond Runde were

the loss of these two men. Ob­few teachers that the students
fired. It isn't just a roumor; it is

viously the department will have can really_ relate to and learn 
a fact because Father Runde

to give their reason for making from are the ones that the ad­
confirmed it in his classes. 

this dismaying decision. The stu­minsitration chooses to dis­
I understand that the reasons

dents on this campus are re­charge because of their progres­
given to Fr. Runde for his con­

sponsible for demanding such an sive ideas on education. St. 
tract not being renewed is that

explanation. If we do not bear Mary's has no chance whatsoever
he is a "divisive force" in the

this responsibility we are deser­to better herself or even survive
community and Dr. Hinkemeyer

ving of the inferior education for that matter, if the admini­
is guilty by association --he is a

that will result from this. If no 
friend of Fr. Runde. stration continues its present convincing or honest answers course of action. Who wants to
Whose decision it was to fir~ 

come forth from the department go to a finishing school? 
these men and what is their real one is forced to confirm some­r~ason for taking the action they thing that Mr. Estabrook has did? Obviously Fr. Runde and Ellen Hayes 2H l I.e Mans 
------~----------------,
' Night Editor: Jim Graif Af Today's paper was brought to you by: Layout Design: Jim Farrington ' Headlines: Dan Nye A f Layout: Joe Abell ' 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~· 
.. 
December 3, 1970 


Ann Marie Tracey:=:=:=:::::::::=:::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:::=:::::=:=:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::: 
The Importance of the Firings 
:;:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::;:::::~:~:~:~:;::;:::::: 
Much discussion, rage, and fear is being generated by the recent 
announcement of the dismissal of two faculty members (to date) 
for their so-called "divisiveness" within the ''community". 
Although the clash of personalities and opinions of those involved 
is well-known, obviously the complete truth will always be 
clouded. The existence ofacademic freedom for all nevertheiess 
seems questionable. The issue is not the firing of two faculty 
members. It is a problem because it is indicative of the 
atmosphere and operations of St. Mary's College. Many difficul­
ties are inherent within an institution; many more, however, are 
due to the removal of the Board of Trustees and administration 
from the demands and needs of the student. Dissatisfaction is 
rampant with no active recognition on their part. The problems 
seem to fall into three categories. 
The first is that economic and preservational priorities far 
outweigh consideration of that mass th~ school hypothetically 
exists for: its students. The college has failed to provide updated 
and growing facilities correspondent to the needs of a rapidly 
expanding student body. Student government submitted an 
extensive report to the Trustees in early October and the singular 
response so far is the donation of one parlor for a study area in 
one hall. Not only are study and recreational facilities inadequate, 
hut athletic facilities are either dilapidated or deflated; a doctor is 
present only four hours a week on campus at an infirmary placed 
in the middle of an uncarpeted dormitory floor (SMC has had 45 
cases of mono this year compared to NO's 12); maintenance and 
security have been drasti..:ally inefficient. These examples only 
begin to outline the problem. 
Secondly, an educational institution necessarily must incorpor­
ate conflicting interests and viewpoints within itself. This includ·~s 
not only diversity in the faculty, but the student body as well. 
Little attempt has been made to either secure or insure this facet 
of college experience. Recruitment of members of minority 
groups has been virtually non-existent; stagnating curriculum· is 
turning away students seeking more than J middle-of-the-road 
approach to life (the curriculum committee met for the first time 
this year in November); academic progression is more like 
repression when compared to other schools across the country. 
Finally, community government here is generally hypocritical, 
and the few times it does come through it is slapped down by the 
Board of Trustees. A prime example of this is the rejection of the 
off-campus policy that had been passed, sometimes unanimously, 
by every committee in the college including the Student Policy 
Committee of the Board of Trustees. (This committee was 
com posed of students, faculty, administration, parents, trustees, 
and alumnae.) This, of course is not the important issue; two 
other ones might he. The Trustees have never met ·with the Search 
Committee for a new president; I can only relay n;tY personal 
frustration as a member of the committee who knows that one of 
their criteria, a president who will preserve the integrity and 
autonomy of St. Mary's still has not been revoked. This is only 
one question, not to mention the need for more than abstract 
guidelines as to whom they will finally accept; for despite the 
recommendations of the Search Committee, the decision is theirs. 
Secondly, we are aware that a proposal will he submitted to the 
students,· faculty, and administration in January regarding the 
cooperation of SMC and NO. What is the purpose of our 
discussing it if the trustees, ominously removed from not only us 
hut the real situation on campus, are the sole determiners of the 
future? Either community government exists or it does not; Jet us 
stop the game playing; either students and facui ty are partici­
pants, in which case they share distincl responsibility, or they are 
not and should be told so that efforts can be turned to more 
productive and useful ends. 
The status quo cannot remain. Students must know their place 
within the comlllUnity structure as it will be, honestly. one way 
or the other. Priorities must he re-established. And there must he 
both the evolution and the maintenance of a truly educational 
environment that provides learning, growth, and a secure basis for 
the self-expression possible because of that growth. 
December 3, 1970 TH'E. OBSERIIER. Page 5 
Rev. Robert Griffin 



The thousand dollar Christmas 

Father Robert Griffin 

Thanksgiving Day with the Glee Club in Boston was srJent, innocently enough, close to the center of one of the City's red light districts; at least, so· it appears from the amount of illicit commerce in bodies. that seems to have gone on at the .:hippie palace where the Club members and I, as their chaplain, were registered as lodgers. Chaps wearing Notre Dame blazers, apparently, needed only to appear in the hallways of the hotel; immediately, doors opened and harlots appeared, salty in their solicitations to sex at twenty dollars an encounter. As a footnote to worried mothers. I would like to report that the gentlemen songsters handled the situation with humor, virtue, and a high degree of thrift. As an aside to the Glee Club, startled by the Puritan City's image as a colony of girly-joints where all the raunchy, old sports seem to gather, I say cool it with the Thanksgiving 
Day memories of the Lenox. As a young man, my own early impressions of the Hub were gathered at a burlesque theatre in old Scollay Square, chielly notable for the middle-aged strippers who played pe~k-a-boo with a set of bubbles. Only eventually did I learn that the Boston most authentic for me is the City of the picture poslcarus: there, with just thi: slightest degree of historil.:al imagination, one can be a contemporary to the town where Cotton Mather preached against 
"Rare Earth" and "Bioodrock", two rock music groups, will appear Friday, December 4 at the University of Notre Dame. The two groups will be sponsored by the University's Student Union Social Commission, and the performance will be held at 8:30 in Stephan Center. Tickets r •r the concert are $3.00, and will be ;;vOJilable at the gate. 
"Rare Earth" is noted for their recent single, ''Get Ready", which reached Num­ber 2 on the nation's charts. They are six-man group characterized by their ex­ceptional musical skills and unique em­pathy with the audience. The group consists of Pete Rivera on drums. John l'ersh on bass or trombone, Kenny James on piano or organ, Ed Cuzm<n adding extra percussion, Rod Richards on guitar, and Gil Bridge!~' on saxophone or flute. Rare Earth's style stresses communica­tion. and th.::t· believe this is both the hy to thl?ir success and, ultimately, their reason for performing. Pete Rivera sum­med this up when he said that "commu­nication is the motive, and you try to get bawdiness in the Old North Church, or where the senior Holmes burbled through the trailing arbutus of the Common, to walk arm-in-arm down Beacon Street with Longfellow, mumbling through his whiskers the pentameters of Fvangeline. 
On Thanksgiving night, safe <j,pd pro­tected in my Roman collar, I left the hotel, unsolicited then, as at all other times, by the flesh peddlers, though I was not unaware of the dark ladies with mascaraed eyes who awaited patrons in the bedrooms of the place. Wholesomely, I headed out in the subway for one of the suburbs beyond the Charles, where a little group awaited me, the Family of the Thousand Dollar Christmas. 
The Family of the Thousand Dollar Christmas: the phrase sums up thal Yule­tide just a very few years ago when I was tearhing at ~ small college nP.ar Boston; and as a lonely, somewhat desperate man, I had discovered a little family--two girls and a boy--whom I decided to adopt as my own for the Holiday Season. The moppets of the family were Loren, aged twelve, and Chris, aged seven. The boy was named Frankie, aged nine. His reputation as a hellion was unmatched by the kids in any other neighborhoo'tl on Mount Auburn Street, Cambridge, where he lived as a street Arab (during the hours his mother worked) in flight from him alcoholic grandmother. One heard reports of a father to this little brood; hut he was never seen, and he seemed not to care whether his children had food, dothing, shelter, love, or life. 
(Incidentally, 1 have published stories, and homilized the adventures of the younger ragamuffins, Frank and Chris, the prindpal prototypes of two little 
characters named Mousey and Cup.;akes Cronin, composite fictional creations drawn from a number of children in the parish where Frank and Chris lived, and where I worked weekends as an assistant curate. Cupcakes and Mousey, I believe, are not complete strangers to some of the students who wander into Mass OCC<11sion­
across the enjoyment you feel playing to the people listening. That's what makes it worthwhile." 
"Bloodrock" is a fast-rising group who recently appeared at the famous Filmore East in New York. Bloodrock brought the fans in Filmore East to their feet, in each of their four shows there, a reception "unheard of for opening acts" according to Filmore East manager Kip Cohen. Billboard magazine stated that Bloodrock p~Jssess "musicality of sound and credi­bility of production" in a performance "highlighted by 'Lucky in the Morning' and 'A Way to Understand'. 
"Bloodrock" is a six-member group out of Texas whose performers are Rick C'obb on drums, John Nitzinger at lead guitar. Nick Taylor at rhythm guitar, Steve Hill at the keyboard, t-:d Grundy at bass and lead singer 1im R uti edge. Their songs project a depth of feeling through­out them. a mood effected by the excel­lent ability of the instrumentalists and the frantic style of their lead singer. 

ally at the Keenan-Stanford Chapel.) 
In the year of the Thousand Dollar 
Christmas, on one of the Saturdays in 
Advent, I gave the cnildren 's mother a 
wad of bills amounting to nearly four 
hundred dollars, representing a month's 
salary and a Christmas bonus to me from 
the Pastor. 

"Buy gifts," I said, "and get a tree." 
She said, "Why are you doing this?" 
"Because," I said after some hesitation, 
"in the life of the professional bachelors of Christendom, there are hardships to the celibate life never mentioned in the seminary. A grayness of spirit can over­take a man in the middle years of his life, after his parents have slipped into the shadows of death and lingering illness. He feels a hunger for a ~ife and for kids of his own; without them, his manhood s.:ems incomplete, and he is forever searching for substitutes." 
It was a dreary, 1>elf-pitying kind of answer, full of excuses for one's self­indulgence in playing the role of Santa Claus, and not especially true. But it ·was 
the vague pretext I offered my conscience . for the splurge of the Thousand Dollar Christmas. Actually, by December 25th, 1 had committed more than a thousand dollars on just my own list of gifts to the family, none of the gifts bought with money, all of them a tribute to the fantastic uses one can make of a credit card in a department store like Jordan 
Marsh. 

But, oh! the tree on that Christmas morning: there were dolls, trains, radios, skates, toys and games, clothes, furniture, television sets, a little watch for Loren, a small puppy for Frank, and silver brushes for young Chris' golden hair--and a sack or two of other gifts from the most reckless, most extravagant, most joyous Kris Kringle to appear in New England since Commerce first made the pilgrimage to kneel at the Baby's crib. 
And oh!· those months after Christmas, as the bills became due. The mailman with his overdue notices became my worst enemy. The (elephone, with its calls from the Jordan Marsh credit depart­ment, became more fearsome to me than sirens screaming with accident reports through the winter night. 
Finally, the last bill of the Thousand Dollar Christmas was paid. BuL the embarrassment at my indebtedness has lasted up to now, when, for the first time, I mention my wild spree so publicly that my prodigality will be fully known by a father superior who trusted me to keep my freely-chosen commitment to the vow of poverty. 
I write of the Thousand Dollar Christ­mas now, not out of a desire for self­humiliation, for, despite everything, 1 loved that madcap adventure too much to become a public penitent over it. I write of it because, on Thanksgiving night, on my way to visit that little family, I thought of the prostitutes in that Boston hotel, and of the reasons why a man will give himself a Christmas gift of three young children and their mother, for whom he can decorate a tree with gifts. I know the reasons why I chose the single state; but to me, the essential mystery of a prostitute's life (harlots, like priests, not being particularly kno>yn as family makers) is that a woman should allow her procreativity to remain so unfulfilled, for whatever inglorious reasons it takes to drive her into the streets in these years 
just after the Great Society. 
So, on Thanksgiving night, I worried about the lollipops who were trying to flirt with the second tenors of the Glee Club in the hotel of our one-night stand. I wondered if any of them had ever needed to spend a thousand dollar Christmas with a family of children. If so, I won­dered if getting the money to pay off their credit charges had been as painful an experience to them as it had been to me. Somehow. I rather hoped it hadn't. 
St. Nicholas Day Arts Fair 
A St. Nicholas Day Arts Fair, featuring an art and antique sale, mock-Glassical concert by the Melting Pot, will be held Sunday afternoon, December 6, at St. Mary's College. The ticket price of $1.50 covers all events and proceeds will benefit the Moreau Art Gallery. 
Highlighting the Arts Fair will he an art sale in Moreau Gallery, from 3 until 9 
p.m. where drawings, paintings, prints, sculpture, pottery, weavings and assorted artifacts will be available for the discrim­inating Christmas shopper. Represented at the sale will be the works of Saint Mary's students and faculty and a number of professional artists from the South Bend area. A selection of antiques ranging from old prints to jewelry and a variety of Christmas cards will also be included in the sale. 
The St. Nicholas Day Arts Fair will open at 2 p.m. with a pompous concert in the Little Theatre, "A Student's Guide to the Art of the Concert Vocalist," with the inane trio of Maestro Poco Piu, Madama Soto Voce and Frau Capella Fingerfertig. Their renderings of classical pieces have been described as "stunning" and as leaving "their audiences aghast." The impressarios will be executed by Richard-Raymond Alaska, director of the Moreau Gallery, and Ruth Fischer and Kay Kunzler, both recent graduates of the college. Joining the group in their third appearance will be musical director 
Signorina Fiordeligi  Batti  Batti,  in  the  
person  of  Miss  Pamela  Griffe!,  of  the  
music faculty.  

On the other end of the musical spectrum is the concert scheduled for 
9:30 p.m. The "Melting Pot" a rock group, will perform in the SMC Coffee House as the final event of the Arts Fair. The Coffee House is located on the ground level of Moreau Hall, directly beneath the Miller Arcade. 
Tickets for the St. Nicholas Day Arts Fair will be on sale at the door Sunday, December 6. 



THE OBSERVER. December 3, 1970
Page 6 
2. 
a. What should I serve when the boys drop over? 
A. The perfect beverage for moments of celebration and good fellowship like this is Pabst Blue Ribbon beer. Its good old-time flavor helps break the ice and get the party rolling. 
1. 
a. What's the oldest 
pany, the oldest in Milwaukee, cele­

brated 126 years of brewing great beer. And that's older than your father's, father's. father's, father's moustache. Which brin~JS us to our point: if you believe that practice makes per­fect. then you can't find a more perfect beer than a .Pabst. 
BvarJthing !au'vallways Wanta~ ta lnaw lbaut Bear 
3. a. Who are these guys? 
A. This is a group photo of our bowling team. It was taken in 1893. the year 
...But larallraid ta lsk
Pabst won the Blue Ribbon as Ameri­c:a's best beer. We still brew our beer the old-time premium way.Our bowling team hasn't changed much either. • 6. 
a. What'll you have? 
A. Pabst Blue Ribbon, because it has something no other beer has ... good old-time flavor. And if perchance we have not covered every­thing you've always wanted to know about beer but were afraid to ask ... quell those fears. You'll find the answers to all your ques­tions inside an ice-cold bottle or can of Pabst. On second thought. why not buy a 6-pack? It's our "refresher" course. 


a. What are these horses trying to pull?
4. 

A. They're pulling one day's production of Pabst beer. This often caused traffic jams outside the brewery. These tieups were the results of efforts to supply the increasing demand for Pabst. A demand that has remained unquenched to the present day. 
5. 

a. How is Pabst 
brewt~d? 

A. 1. Choice hops are gathered and pla~ed here. 86. Then we mix in only the best grains. 22. Then the beer is allowed to brew slowly and naturally. 64. Look closely~; This is a secret process that gives Pabst its good old-time flavor. 
PABST BREWING COMPANY • Milwaukee. W1sc .. Peona He1ghts, Ill.. Newark, N J., Los Angeles. Cal .. Pabst. Ga 


D~ember3~,~19~7~0------------------------------~7j~~~~~~Q~!L~~~~~~~~~~------------------------------------~Pa~ge~7 
•

Irish grapplers pin down w1n early 
by Uruce i~ennedy Observer Sportswriter 
The Irish grapplers opened their season last night with a 35-10 victory over St. Joe's of Renalaer, Ind. before a crowd of 200 at the ACC. ND registered five pins in I 0 matches in addi­tion to a technical pin and a dedsion. 
pounds, was losing to Dave Picker when Picker got hurt in the second period and had to withdraw, thus allowing the Irish five points for technical pin. Sophomore Bob Habig, ISO pounds, made it five in a row for the Irish by pinning David Windau with 0:59 remaining in the second period. 

reversals and Cleary ended on top with an 8-6 victory. This made the score NO 28, St. Joe's 8. 
ND's Rich Aseledge, behind after the first period 2-1, came back strong and held a 9-2 lead when he pinned Dan Flaherty with 26 seconds left in the match. The final match was a Wednesday they will host Purdue in. the Convo at 7:30. An away meet at Wabash, Dec. I 0, w'ill be the grapplers' final endeavor before vacation. Six home meets are scheduled 
JIM MURRAY 
during the second semester. 
T.C. Treanor had this to say about wrestling: "It is truly the principal sport of the strong man. For it is an art both coagulated and alone." 

Chris Paige, one of seven The pin streak could not con­44 tie between the two heavy­freshmen wrestling for the Irish, tinue as 158 pound junior Ken weights, AI Rocek of Notre opened the match by pinning his Ryan settled for a 2-0 victory. Dame and Ray O'Donnell of the 
opponent Tom McM.ahon in 39 By this time the Irish led 28-0. Pumas. Rocek got the takedown 
Legend of 
seconds. Then senior captain Dan Ellis of St. Joe's pinned 'in the first period, and held a 4-2 Tom Ciaccio, a 126 pounder, 167 pounder Brian Duffy with lead after two reversals in the stymied Jay Hardy with I: 59 54 seconds left in the second second period. But 0' Donnell 
.left in the three minute second period. In the 177 pound escaped and then was credited period. Rich Esposto, 134 bracket, Steve Cleary of the with · one more point when pounds, made short order of St. Tams took a 4-0 lead in the first Rocek intentionally went off the 
Notre Dame 
Joe's Skip Rachel, pinning him period but Dave DiBacco of mat. !Final score, ND 35, St. 54 seconds into the first period. Notre Dame fought back in the Joe's 10. 
,Thus the Irish led 15-0 after just second with an escape and a Tomorrow and Saturday, the 
© 1970, Los Angeles Times
three matches. takedown, closing the gap to Irish will participate in the N.Y. 
NO's Mike Kemp, 142 4-3. The final period was one of Tech Tournament, and next In his scholarly work, "Notre Dame, Its People And Its Legends," the author, a legend himself, Francis Wallace, reports that, in 1928, a New York sportswriter, W. 0. McGeehan, wrote that he had made a trip to South Bend "to investigate the rumor a university was 
located there." 
His skepticism was understandable. Just as Germany was All America squad was the smashed O.J. Simpson's single understood to be a country not run by an army but occupied by it, NEW YORK (UPl)-Ohio leading vote getter on ·offense season rushing record, headed a just as some big businesses set up dummy corporations, or tanker 
State led by returnees Jack 
ND places three on UPI 
with 151 votes. second team backfield composed tleets ship under Panamanian registry, Notre Dame was thought to Tatum and Jim Stillwagon 
Jim Plunkett, the Heisman of Joe Theismann of Notre be just a brand name for a traveling football team. It didn't own the placed four players and Notrt Dame, Mike Adamle of North­
Trophy winner from Stanford, team, the team owned it. Notre Dame was just a kind of complicatedDame and Texas three each on was the overwhelming choice at western arid Joe Moore of Mis­ventriloquism act. 
the I970 United Press Interna­quarterback. Cornell's Ed Mari­souri. Moore missed most of the The cynical legend went that Notre Dame had been founded in tional College Football All­
naro, the first Ivy Leaguer to season with a shoulder separa­!844 by Father Sarin but discovered in 1924 by Grantland Rice. It America team named today. make the squad since Dick Kaz­tion but was among the na­successfully fought off Indians, drought, fires, tlood, cholera, 
Tatum, a cornerback who maier in 1951, joins Worster and tion's leading rushers for his five prejudice and bigotry only to be captured by a football team. rates as one of the most feared Brockington in the backfield. games played. It was a school to which the king of France (Louis Phillippe) once defensive players in the country, Ernie Jennings of Air Force Others on the second team gave $700-and the wags commented he just wanted to be sure of a was the leading vote-getter in moves in with Gatewood at wide offens<! included wide receivers season ticket. Or they say that like all institutions, it had small earning selection for the second receiver and Michigan's Dan Terry Beasley of Auburn and beginnings-they· just put up the goalposts and went from there. straight year. He received 170 Dierdorf teams with Wuensch at Elmo Wright of Houston; tackles Everyone on campus either wore a cassock-or cleats. It was always votes from the 247 sports tackle. Chip Kell of Tennessee, Bob Newton of Nebraska and easy to tell a Notre Dame student: even if you couldn't see his writers and sportscasters the fourth returnee, jqins Di Larron Jackson of Missouri; number, you could tell by his gold helmet. "The Hunchback of throughout the nation who part­Nardo at guard and Colorado's guards Gary Ventura of Arizona Notre Dame" was a flop because people thought it was a football 
icipated in this year's balloting. movie.
Don Popplewell was the choice State and Mike Sikich of North­
Tatum was joined by team­'Hike, Hike, Hike!' 
at center. western; and center John Sande mates Stillwagon earning selec­Defensively Charlie Weaver of of Stanford. It was the place where Rockne invented the forward pass, not tion as linebacker for the second 
·Southern California's "Wild The second team defense was where Julius Nieuwland invented synthetic rubber. It was a placeconsecutive season; Mike Sensi­
Bunch" joins Atessis at end composed of ends Herb Orvis of where Math I was "Hike, hike, hike!" and where the verdigrisedbaugh, a defensive back; and while Rock Perdoni of Georgia Colorado and Jack Youngblood statues around campus were described as members of the punt­running back John Brockington. 
Tech and Joe Ehrmann of Syra­of Flo rid a; tackles Dave WaHine return team. "Abnormal Psychology" was a study in methods of Notre Dame placed wide re­
cuse were selected at tackle. of Nebraska and Tody Smith of getting a team to be 14-point underdogs. To Northwestern. ceiver Tom Garewood, offensive Mike Anderson of Louisiana Southern California; linebackers Actually, Notre Dame's greatest team never played in Yankee guard Larry DiNardo, and defen­State and Jack Ham of Penn Marty Huff of Michigan, Jerry Stadium. Its goal was not the Cotton Bowl. George Gipp couldn't sive back Clarence Ellis on the State are with Stillwagon at line­Murtaugh of Nebraska and have made it. Rockne ·couldn't have coached it. It didn't have any team while Texas, the nation's backer while Auburn's Larry Jackie Walker of Tennessee; and Johnny "One Play" O'Briens. It was a 14-point underdog in every top ranked team, contributed Willingham teams with Tatum, defensive backs Tommy Casa­game on its schedule. It never went around shaking its finger at the running back Steve Worster, of­Ellis and Sensibaugh to form the nova of Louisiana State, Bobby sky and shouting "We're No. 1!''Its Victory Song was "Ave Maria" fensive tackle Bobby Wuensch defensive secondary. Majors of Tennessee; Windlan not "Cheer, Cheer For Old Notre Dame." and defensive end Bill Atessis. Don McCauley, the North Hall of Arizona State and Dave Notre Dame's first national champions were a doughty bunch of 
DiNardo also repeating on the Elmendorf of Texas A&M.
Carolina running back who French priests who hewed a university out of the wilderness. Its first Heisman Trophy candidate. was their leader, Father Edward Sorin. All had become priests or brothers despite the ravages of anti­clericalism raised in the French Revolution and encouraged by
Dillon is lnterltall c~ltamp 
Bonaparte. Seven plays later running back nearly 50 yards each, and the They crossed the ocean in 39 days in steerage, barged down the
by Bruce Kennedy 
Steve Ising went over for the longest was 70. Erie Canal like any other cargo. They played an 11-game schedule Observer Sportswriter 
score. Dillon trie-;1 for two, and Coach Bill Fiorini of Dillon with the rules made up by the other guys. 
Dillon became the lnterhall QB John Amato connected with called it "a hard-hitting game" Sorin ran his team like any other top quarterback. He was Football champion a week ago receiver Dick Biro to make it 8-0 and "a fitting way to end the dismayed to find that Indiana, where he founded his "university," Sunday by defeating Keenan in Dillon. season." was not really part of any French Northwest Territory (despite the tile Stadium R-0. Keenan never threatened till The half time show featured presence of towns named "Napoleon," "Terre Haute," "La Porte," 
Dillon's score came at the the final moments when time the Keenan Marching Band (who and "Vincennes") and that he not only had to learn a new land but a beginning of the second quarter ran out on them. Throughout forgot their instruments), new language. affer a 55 yard drive. An inter­the game Skip Webb's punts folloW<!d by the Dillon fans who He was a man of fortitude, gratitude and rectitude. He fought ception by Bob Galgan had given kept Keenan in their own terri­spelled out Dillon letter by with the authority of the state, the city and his own church to erect Dillon the ball on their own 45. tory. His four punts averaged letter. Fans from both teams his citadel of Catholic learning. Amusingly enough, his most 
formed tunnels for their heroes. exasperation was caused by the Irish whom he found pugnacious, Keenan entered the field from desobedient and intractable, not given to authority, and once even the main exit at the north end of went so far as to ban the wearing of the green on St. Patrick's Day. 
Voices from the crowd 
the Stadium, and Dillon's squad But he learned to live with his fighting Irish, little dreaming that charged out of the concession one day, along would come a broken-nosed, bald-headed, stammer­
pionship, I think we can surviv Sports Editor: another year. Anyway, although stand exit at the east bleachers. 
ing Norwegian Lutheran named Rockne and a graceful, gifted but Yesterday we lost to Southern disdainful son of a Congregationalist minister named Gipp who
quite impossible, we can still would make his institution internationally famous-but for none ofCal and our hopes for a national attain number one status by 

aen,... meet 
the reasons the French abbe in Le Mans foresaw when he gave Perechampionship faded away. Over­beating the number one team in Sorin and his band of clerics 3,000 francs for passage to America toall reaction to the loss by mem­the nation at the Bowl. Even if ATTENTION!!! 
build a fount of Catholicism in the New World.
bers of this section was some­the polls don't give it to us, I'm Old boxers -Novices-and Succeeding heads of Notre Dame alternately have been embarrass­
thing like "the team blew it". sure you all know that we're all those interested in partici­ed by, or awed by, the enormous incubus of football with th.e
I don't know about the sore number I. Out of ten game~, we pating in the 40th anniversary scholastic image outweighed by the athletic--and have spught
losers, but for me, I never give had an unlucky last game. Those BENGAL BOUT TOURNA­,Jeriodically to stuff the full grown tiger back into the shoe box itup. There's still the Cotton are the breaks. MENT, PLEASE NOTE. There came in.
Bowl. We just can't give up now. If you are a true Notre Darner will be an open meeting of the But Father Ted Hesburgh and Edmund Joyce must do as Father
· keep rooting for us!!! N.D. Boxing Club on FRI. DEC. 
Sorin would have done: accept the. revenue, give thanks to God,
This has been our best season We're still number I. 4 at 4:00 P.M. in the Audito­
rejoice in the diversion of the alumni and build a greater university. 
in my three years here at Notre GO IRISH rium of the A.C.C. (next to 
An ideal which can survive real Famine, Pestilence, Destruction and 
D:une. Just like I survived two "Broadway" & Section 4 -A coaches offices in the main con­
Death can survive the Four Horsemen as well.
yl'ars without a national cham-Fisher Hall course). 
December 3, 1970

Page 8 THE OBSERIIDt 
WE TAKE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO THANK NOTRE DAME & SMC FOR THE \\ONDERFUL RECEPTION AND HOPE YOU CONTINUE TO PATRONIZE 
RollA'S PIZZA LCMINCE 
219 N. MICHIGAN TEL 234-3258 
IIOOM DELIVDIY -DISCOUNT 2S~ 4-7 PM DAILY 
(with this. ad) 
r-------------------------,
OPEN MEETING OF 
Lack of chairman real problem 
tor. Mittelman said, "The job the department to begin with.
(continued from page 3) 

was never offered to me ... The "I think that if they have rollment in Math 11-12 would inferer.ce that I drew was that I justifiable reason they should drop drastically. The same was unacceptabel as department have made every effort to take would be true if each depart­chairman." this thing to the faculty ... There ment had their own German Mittelman, understandably is could have been a half dozen courses," Mittelman said. upset by the proposed dissolu­ways to resolve this using other 
Another problem with the tion of the department since he tactics," Mittelman said. department is that it lacks a <IS Director of the Computing Frow the administration there chairman. Last spring an ad hoc Cenkr had been intimately in­is only silence. committee of the college deans volved in the establishment of examined the CS program and recommended that the Center 
Launch blanket drive
and the Department be separ­
SLC MON., DEC. 9, 4:15, CCE 
Everybody is invited to addr~ess questions to SBP & Vice-Pres. of Student Affairs 
L-------------------------~ 
If you want to inspire 
something lasting . ... 
Do it now at 
SKY KING 
DIE BODY IS BEAUTIFUL 
AND J',1AKING IT JUST A LITTLE MORE BEAUTIFUL 
IS OUR BUSINESS 

SI<Y l<lfJG ACROSS FROf.l ~ OBERTSO;'JS 
6 PRONG DIA· 
$495 
MOND SET.... ·· 
FOX'S 
DIAMOND! IMPORT SAVINGS 
AT FOX'S YOU GET ABIGGER, BETTER QUALITY DIAMOND LESS MONEY! 
*SOUTH BEND *MISHAWAKA BUDGET TERMS 
YOUNG ADULT ACCOUNTS WELCOME NOTRE DAME ACCOUNTS 

ated and that the university secure another computer. An IBM 360/50 computer has since been purchased to supplement the II 07. But a chairman for the department has not been named. Dean Waldman said that one of the considerations that has been holding up the appointment is that few men have expressed interest in serving as chairman of a department that will not have a graduate program in the f•.Jrsee­able future (and now, perhaps, e.ver). In the interim Waldman has been Acting Chairman and the department has been place 
under his college. 

Two logical choices for Department Chairman would then seem to be the two tenured fa cui ty memhers. Thacher said that he has no interest in the job b~cause• he is a poor administra­
by Charlie Myers 
A blanket drive for Mexican migrant families in South Bend is now being carried on by sev­eral Notre Dame students on campus. 
The students are working voluntarily for an organization called El Centro, Inc. which is distributing the blankets among the families. 
The majority of students involved have spent time work­ing in Columbia which enables them to communicate with the 
Eenie Weenie, the Xmas elf 
says "Merry Xmas" 
Pray for Christian unity 
(continued from page 1) 
achieved quickly. 

"History cannot be written off overnight" he said. "The honest hesitations of sensitive consciences always demand our respect_ and understanding. There is no easy way. 
"This service is an historic event" the pontiff continued. 
"Nothing quite like it has happened before in Australia or even in the wider world. The prospect of praying together for the unity of all Christians has 
Bowl tickets 
Student tickets (Notre Dame and-St. Mary's) for the January I Cotton Bowl will go on sale at the ACC Box Office according to the following schedule: Seniors, Tuesday, December 8; Juniors. December 9, Sopho­mores, December I 0, and Fresh­men, December II . 
One thousand tickets will he held for students and issued ac­cording to the above priorities or until the supply is exhaust<'d. Students must come in person and present current ID's at the time of purchase. 
Students may purchase one reserved seat at $3.75. This re­presents a discount of 50% from the regular price. Reduced price is based upon personal use of the ticket. Students must present 
' Notre Dame I D's at the gate for admission to the Cotton Bowl game. Inadequate ticket supply will not permit more than one ticket per student. Box office hours are from 9 
A.M. to 5 P.M., including the noon hour. 
2nd Semester Book Exchange 
First Turn-ins: EXAM WEEK 
MANAGER NEEDED : S 
For Info Call-n57 -Ask for Bill McGrath 
stirred the imaginations and fired the hopes of all who are het e and countless others. 
"It is not because we seek safety in a hostile world nor because it is nice and com­fortable to be together" the Pope said. "It is rather a search for truth, a search for renewal, a search for obedience that will lead us out into costly service." 
Sitting with the Pope were representatives of the II denom­inations making up the Austra­lian Council of Churches. 
The Pope's physician Prof. Mario Fontana told newsmen the Pope, 73, was fit and stand­ing up well to the rigors of the tour that began Nov. 26. After a one day visit in Indonesia the Pope will stop in Hong Kong and Colombo, Ceylon before return­ing to the Vatican Dec. 4. 
Xmas concert 
The 90-member University Chorus and the Collegium M usicum chamher orchestra will appear in a Christmas concert, Sunday, Decem her 6, at Saint Mary's College. The program of nontraditional Christmas music will begin at 8 p.m. in O'Laugh­lin Auditorium and the public is cordially invited to attend with­out charge. 
Under the directim; of Dr. 
Arthur Lawrence, of the Saint 
Mary's and Notre Dame music 
faculties, the student chorus and 
orchestra will open the program 
with a Christmas text by Gallus, "Resonet in Laudibus." The women's chorus, accom­panied hy Ronald Morebello, SMC music instructor, will sing selections from Benjamin Brit­ten's "A Ceremony of Carols" and the orchestra has chosen Carelli's "Christmas Concerto" and Pinkham's "Gloria" for their program. 
families involved. The drive will continue· for the remainder of this semester. Drop off points for blankets are: 
I00 Morrissey 
115Sorin 
905 Flanner 
333 Alumni 
430 McCandless 
418 LeMans 
835 Notre Dame Ave. Apt. lB 
Help wanted 
Barbara Cowley, general chair­
man of the course evaluation 
committee of the SMC Aca­
demic Affairs Commission last 
night asked for volunteers to 
pass out course evaluation sheets 
in all St. Mary's classes. 
Miss Cowley explained that 
due to various difficulties the 
commission had been delayed in 
getting out a course evaluation 
booklet, but that the committee 
plans to have evaluations for 
next semester. 
A notice will be posted in the SMC cafeteria listing all St. Mary's classes. Girls are asked to sign for any class at which they would be able to distribute the sheets. Volunteer's are asked to pick up the sheets at Augusta Hall and to distribute them in the respective class en Mon., Dec. 7. Students are to fill out the evaluation sheets and return them to the volunteer at the next class meeting. The com­pleted sheets should be returned tc Augusta Hall. 
Tenure system 
A student petition of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's Admini­stration concerning its recent ac­tion 'With faculty members from both campuses will conclude its canvassing tonight in the student dining halls. Concerned students express the hope that all stu­dents interested will attempt to sign the petition by this evening. The text is as follows: 
To Father Hesburgh and Sister 
Alma: 
We, the undersigned, demand an. intensive reconsideration of the entire tenure system in light of the termination of the con­tracts of several Notre Dame professors. We believe that the student body should have con­trol pwportionate to their con­tributions to the university con­. cerning the decision making pro­cesses of hiring, firing, and grant­ing tenure. In order that this proportionate control have force in the current crisis, evidenced by the coming to light of various refusals to renew contracts, it should be implemented im­mediately to include the aca­demic year 1970-71. These con­ditions are to he met by Feb­
ruary I , I 97 I. 


r~-----------------------, 
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  



