

··VOL. 1v, No. a7 Serving the NotreDame and Sa{nt Mary·.~ ColleKC ('ommuni~J' MARCH 3, 1970 
Candidates launch SBPcampaigns 
Halls to be emphasized 
Six teams enter SBP, SBVP race


by Krashna -Winings 
The campaign for Studentby Bill Carter as captain for the north quad Body President officially be­and Hall Presidents CouncilThe Farley Hall basement gan last night at 6:00 as TomChairman Tom Suddes as cap­headquarters of the Dave Krash­Thrasher, Dave Krashna, Petetain for Holy Cross and Carrollna-Mark Winings campaign is al­Peterson, John Dowdle, Joehalls.ready swimming with activity. Lord, and John M Guire allThey will supervise the activi­With the campaign having offi­returned petitions in time toties of the individual hall cap­cially opened yesterday the for­have their names ori the bal­tains who are made up of aces behind Krashna-Winings ef­lot.number of hall presidents andfort have put together an organi­

Stay Senator Tom 

zation which they stated would other hall government leaders. ·Thrasher of Grace Hall andJerry O'Connor will be off-cam­be based on the closest possible his running mate, Associate pus captain. Pohl said the cap­contact with the individual stu­Academic Commissioner Greg tains' would be in daily contactdent. Murray of Alumni Hall, werewith Krashna and Winings re­Since much of the emphasis :first to announce theirporting all the feedback theyof the ideas Krashna and Winings candidacy The second teamreceive from the members ofwish to get across is on the to announce was made up oftheir halls. importance of hall activity over 
lluman Affairs Commissioner "The importance of the hallsdepersonalized, overcentralized 

D a v e K r a s h n<a f r o m student government, a large part 
can't be underestimated in this 

off-campus and his runningof the organization of the cam­
campaign," Pohl said. "We don't 
mate, Mark Witlings,

paign will be focused they've want to point up any big organi­
president of St. Ed's Hall. said on translating the desires of 
zation as a means to get our 
(continued on page 2) 

people elected. There is no poli­next year's government. tical machine here. David has the hall residents into action in just those who happen to beCampaign manager Bob Pohl said that all the big organization involved in student governmentsurrounding Student Govern­outlined some of the planning or some other organizations."
behind the organizational struc­ment elections in the past has Pohl indicated that Krashna
caused people to keep looking to and Winings would begin -a fullture in the Krashna camp. 

"The people in the halls are the government for answers to time schedule of visiting hallscertainly the key to our drive in problems that should have come and talking to students today.
this campaign. We have a repre­from themselves. That is where He pointed out that the sched­
sentative in every residence hall the students government have ules have been drawn up only as
and they are the foundation of failed. far as Thursday when the entire
our organization. The hall cap­"David believes the students organization will meet and evalu­tains will try to convey the can analyze situations for them­ate the progress of the campaignthings that David and Mark selves and decide how they want that far. After that all the speak­stand for to the people in their to act upon them, then go to the ing schedules will be on a morehalls. We have some great people student government to get things or less day-to-day basis. Theworking for us and they are all done. That's why the halls are so whole organization was made towilling to do the work because much a part of his emphasis. He be flexible, Pohl said. 
they believe in what David and is supporting things like giving a Krashna and Winings haveMark are trying to do for the large part of the activity fee to written a letter to all the stu­students in this university," he the halls, and having some of dents and will distribute it to­said. those big-name speakers who night. The letter is incant tol'ohl said the organization in­come to the university get in to serve as a general introduction tocluded Dave Schmidt as captain the halls and dining halls for the aims of the campaign. Pohlfor the south quad, Steve Flavin contact with all the students not 
(continued on page 6) 


SLF features Brown, Wolfe 
by Pat Dermody Solotaroff, New York, N.Y., writing style, is a native of 
Claude Brown, whose searing editor of the "New American Richmond, Va. account of growing up in Harlem Review," a collection of postwar He received a Ph. D. in was one of the most widely fiction and short stories. Solo­American studies from Yale acclaimed books of the last de­taroff, who was also an associate University in l 957, and from cade, and Tom Wolfe, who gave editor of the Commentary Maga­reporting for the Springfield 
"pop-journalism" to the literary zine, holds a bachelor and (Mass.) Union he went to South world, are the headliners for the master degrees from the Univer­America in 1959 as a corres­1970. Sophomore Literary Fes­sity of Michigan. He will speak pondent for the Washington tival April 12-16 on the Notre at 4 p.m. April l 2 in the Post. His by line became nation­Dame campus. Memorial Library Auditorium. ally known when he joined the 
The annual festival, organized Claude Brown 33, is a native New York Herald Tribune in hy the sophomore class and of Harlem who attended Howard 1962 as a reporter and magazine directed by chairman Bob Hall, University and was a playwright writer. will be keynoted by Theodore for the American Afro-Negro Since 1967, Wolfe, 38, has 
Theater Guild before writing the been a free-lance writer, contri­autobiographical "Manchild in buting to such publications as

Schmitz holds 
the Promise Land" in 1965. Esquire and 1-kirper's Bazaar. His "I want to talk about the first first book, "The Kandy Kolored


poetry reading 
Northern urban generation of Tangerine-Flake Streamline Negroes," Brown wrote in the Baby" was published in 1965, foreword to his best-seller. followed by "The Pump HouseDennis Schmitz, assistant pro­"This is a story of their Gang" and "The Electric Kool­fessor of English at Sacramento searching, their dreams, their Aid Acid Test" the followingState College, will present a sorrows, their small and futile year. He will lecture at 8 pmreading from his own poetry at rebellions, and their endless bat­April 16 in Washington Hall. 

Saint Mary's College, Notre tle to establish their own place Chairman Boh Hall believesr)ame, Indiana, on Wednesday, in America's greatest metropolis that having the festival budgetMarch 4, 1970, at 8:00 p.m. in --and in America itself." He cut by the Student Center hasthe Madeleva Memorial Build­will speak at 8 p.m. April 14 in yet to pose a problem.
ing's Carroll Hall. It is open to Washington Hall. On the contrary, he states "Itthe public and there is no charge Tom Wolfe whose feature hurt in the dealings with authors for admission. 
writing for the New York Herald on a monetary basis, but attract­Mr. Schmitz attended Loras Tribune and its merged succes­ed those writers who seemed I College, Dubuque, Iowa, receiv­

sor, the New York World more interested in expressing (continued on page 2) Journal Tribune, set a new 
(continued an page 2) 

Thrasher opens drive, seeks academic reform 
entity unto itself," and of at­
by Steve Hoffman 
taching excessive emphasis to Strongly emphasizing the nec­greater issues, Murray called for 
essity of specific improvement the next Student Government to 
and progress in the area of aca­offer a coherent, articulate voice 
demic reform, Tom Thrasher on student needs. 
and Greg Murray initiated their "The Student Government 
campaign for Student Body must impart a feeling of action President and Vice-President last to the student, forging a sense ofevening before a large crowd in student solidarity by picking up
Stanford Hall. 
and channeling student energy,"Stay Senator Thrasher deliver­he stated.
ed the candidates' opening state­Murray was questioned exten­ment, outlining the ticket's basic sively concerning specific pro­policy priorities, and describing grams related to academic re­the two fundamental short­form. He cited as an integral partcomings of the present Student of reform the enviromnental ap­Government. 
proach to reform with studentsThrasher identified the prob­learning in their own dormslems as the "tendency for the through such means as the ex­
Student Government to freeze perimental college, increased out those students who failed to work-t~tudy programs, the hall support the in-group during the fellows program, faculty offices 
campaign, and to ignore students within the halls and the broad­
in general after the election." 
ening of foreign study programs.
Thrasher stressed the need to He also noted the necessity open up Student Government on 
for students to have a say in the basis of interests, ability, and 
their education through student ideas to all who want to get 
representation on the Collegeinvolved. He observed that it is 
Council, Academic Council, and essential for politicians to get 
especially the Departmental away from their desks in La 
Council, where the course plansFortune and get back into the 
are formulated. halls. Calling for continuing the 
"Putting students on thepersonal approach of his cam­Councils should not be a conces­paign, Thrasher stated that the sion but a positive step," MuKay

Student Government must alert remarked. Murray observed the itself to student needs. 
importance of academic flexi­
Noting one such student bility by doing away with curri­
priority, Thrasher stated that: culum strictness and rigidity. 
"Student Government must "The academic structure 
push the Administration firmly, ought to be one in which stu­
constantly, and respectfully for dents may thrive rather than be 
the implementation of coeduca­stifled or frustrated," he said. 
tion." 
In addition, Murray expressed 

Vice-Presidential candidate the desirability of a course-by­Greg Murray commented that at request program, wherein a times he has held something of a group of students and a coop­"why bother" attitude toward erative faculty member would Student Government, but felt prepare a course bibliographythat as Vice-President he would for submission to the appro­have a chance to do something. 
priate Council for accreditation. 
Accusing the present Student 
(continued on page 6) 

Government of evolving into "an 

S M C frosh to vote 
Thursday is the deadline for sight," remarked Pat Haffey, 
SMC freshmen to vote in their Freshman Class senator. "They 
districts on a number of amend­provide for every sort of emer­
ments to their newly ratified gency." 
constitution. At the meeting, senators also 
Proposed at Sunday's Senate discussed the Freshman Class 
meeting, the amendments deal prom, tentatively scheduled for 
with procedure for constitu­April 18. Suggested by 
tional amendments, resignations, 
Ann Carlson, the theme, "Love Is ·and impeachments. Blue," will predominate in each' 
Initiated by Lolo Stankus, of Regina Hall's four lounges. Freshman Class president, the "Each lounge will be decor­amendment proposal would re­
ated in a different season of the quire three-fourths of the class 
year," commented Flora Dause, to ratify constitutional changes. 
decorations chairman. Other amendments focus on the Serving as advisors on the problems of impeachment and 
committees are Senators Flora resignation. 
Dause, decorations ( 4005); Mary 
In order to impeach one of Ambrose, band (4452); Sharon the three class officers, the ap­Corbett (4797); and Angie proval of three-fourths of the Rocca (4554, favors; Jane Mc­class would be necessary. As a Cormick, food (4605); and Mary result of this action, the Mullaney, finances(4383). vice-president's• term would ter­Mary Claire Theisen, social minate with the next election. commissioner, urges any fresh­Secretarial impeachment and re­man interested in working to call signations from any class officers her (5313) or one of the com­would follow the same proce-mittee advisors. dure. "It's going to take a lot of 
"The proposed amendments work," she reflected, "but it's exhibit a great amount of fore-going to be a great prom." 

THE OBSERVER. 
MARCH 3, 1970

PAGE 2 
•
Brown, Wolfe head list of lecturers 1n SLF 
campus and Rory Baruth from calling for a more cooperative student, not in dealing with the committal as our opponents."
TO OUR 
Morrissey decided to run with bookstore and student problems of the world. "Our trite objectives are the purpose of creating unity management of the Huddle. Joe Lord and his running Christian community, communi­
ADVERTISERS: 
among the students of Notre Finally Peterson felt that "the mate Larry Lange, both of Walsh cations, meaningful dialogue and Deadlines for display ad­
Dame. ("Basically we are trying SBP must be relieved of as many Hall, also announced their candi­coming in second to last," they to get a government by consen­of his bureaucratic dutiesas pos­dacy yesterday. said. "We hope to "turn scattered 
vertising is 48 hours prior 
sus rather than by the tyranny sible so that h~ can get a chance "We run for these offices be­apathy into mass antipathy."
to the date of publica­
of the majority. We are trying to to get out among the people." cause we want students to help
tion. 
fight machine politics," Pherson John Dowdle of Grace Hall themselves instead of -being apa­
SMC reading
said.) Peterson's program and John Gaski of Badin corn­thetic, because we want student stressed hall autonomy and aca­pose another ticket. Dowdle' · government to stand tpr some­
Copy may be brought in any (continued from page 1)
demic reform including the abo­said that "the purpose of our thing that counts," a campaign 
ing a B.A. degree in 1959 and
time up to 2:30 the day 
lition of the grading system and candidacy is to procure the votes flyer states. 
continued his education at the
before publication. 
the elimination of required of those students who regurgi­They called for new policies 
University of Chicago earning his tate at the thought -of the same on .parietals, on student services, M.A. degree in 1961.
political stereotype candidate. 

and on "the day to day life of a A number of his poems have
We feel it is time to have a basic 

Notre Dame student." They felt . been published in major Ameri­change in student politics, which that "the University is abusing can and British periodicals. A
will in turn bring about a needed 

its monopolistic position and book of his poems entiHed We
DON'T GET 
change in student participation." 

that something should be done 
Weep for Our Strangeness was
Dowdle further stressed the 

about the things that count. We published recently. This book cannot prevent the University was the winning manuseript in
JOBS! JOBSt •rid more J08Sf S"*· 

from being a place where inequi­
dents, TMC:hers. Shlteslde •nd ,._; 

the 1969 Big Table Contest. 
ties exist, but we can make a
Mt>~l J..L --lloMI .I~ 
In 1959, Schmitz won first

JAMMED 
Yur-round Jobs; summer JObs. ~~ 

valid attempt to reduce the num­prize ·in the National Catholic
~cup•tlons •nd tr~. Enjoy • v•c:t­

ber of inequities.
tll)n while you urn. Hurry! The 

College Poetry Contest for his 
jobs •r• hlken urly. Writes "JOBS•, 
The "In Abstentia" Party,

into a teaching position that's unsatisfactory and a 
poem, "Monstrous Pictures of
P.O. Box 475, Dept. cP 163-1, LOCII;' 

spearheaded by John B. McGuire
place you can't stand. Your prospective students 
Whales."
Cllflf. 95240 

need your full attention and only if you're happy can you give them what they need. It's your career, be 
APPLICATIONS ARE NOW BEING TAKEN FOR THE
selfish enough to make it a good one. There's no question about it-students in elemen­tary and high ·schools need young teachers; with 
POSITION OF EDITOR OF THE OBSERVER 
fresh progressive ideas, to answer and satisfy their thousands upon thousands of questions. Answers that, when handled creatively and interestingly, not only give information but cause young minds to mold into strange-wonderful patterns. A good teacher is a catalyst. They need you. Chicago needs 
THE POSITION IS OPEN TO ANY STUDENT
you. But over and beyond their need, a starting salary of $8,400 annually and one of the highest teacher 
OF NOTRE DAME OR ST. MARY'S
salary schedules in the nation indicate that Chicago wants to satisfy the needs of its community. 
Your endeavor may be needy students and an ade­quate salary-but then again it may be a healthy non-stop social environment and night life, a 10 
APPLICATION MAY BE MADE BY SUBMITIING A 
mile lake front beach, open air concerts, the ballet 
STATEMENT OF INTENT TO 
or fine colleges and universities to continue your education. The community of Chicago, on the shore of Lake Michigan. 
Get off to a good start in your career. If you're a graduating senior with a degree in education, in­
THE BOP.RO OF DIRECTORS 
vestigate teaching in the Chicago Public Schools. 
c/o Gaetano M. De Sapio, Editor-in-Chief THE. OBSERVER 
For further information write: 

Box 11 Notre Dame, Indiana 46~56
r-----------------------------------------, 
DIRECTOR OF TEACHER RECRUITMENT 
Chicago Public Schools, 228 N. La Salle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60601 
The statement should contain a resume of qualifications as well as a statement of the applicant's concepts of the role 
I am interested in teaching: D Grades K-3 D 4-6 D 7-8 
D High school___:-:--:-----D Special Education 
and direction of THH OBSER VHR. 
subject area 

Applications must be filed by March 4. The applicant
Miss 
will be required to meet with the Board for a personal
Mr.------~------------------------­
interview. Announcement of appointment and acceptance will be 
Address_____________________________________ 
City________.State _________ Zip_____ 
made on Friday, March /3. THH OESER VER'S last publication date under the present editor will be Wed­
College _______ Graduation --------­
nesday, March 25. Publication of THE OESER VER will 
yr. mo. 

resume under the new editor on April 7. 
(continued from page 1) 
their views than making a buck." 
Recognizing his opinion and 
the current popularity of poetry 
on the college and university 
campus, the Literary Festival 
Committee is bringing in more 
poets than ever before, among 
them: 
Gary Snyder, a 39 year old poet who holds a graduate de­gree in Oriental Studies from the University of California at Ber­keley and is a student of Zen Buddhism. He was among the original founders of the "beat movement" in literature with Allen Ginsburg and the late John Kerouac. Snyder was a Guggen­
heim Fellow in 1968-69. He has 
written five volumes of poetry 
during the last decade. He will 
speak at 8 p.m. April 12 in 
Washington Hall. 
Michael Anania, who teaches 
at the Ghicago Circle campus'of 
the University of Illinois, and 
whose poetry and essays have 
appeared in several reviews. His 
first collection of poetry "The collections of his own poetry in the founding of the nation's F. Buckley. color 0Ci>ust"--was published between 1961 and last year. He underground press, "The East Festival chairman Hall feels 
last year by The Swallow Press, has four books due for publica­Village Other." that this year's festivity is "uni­of which he is poetry editor. He tion this year. He will speak at 8 Reed published his first novel, que" from the last years and will speak at 3 p.m. April 16 in p.m. April 15 in Washington "The Free-Lance Pallbearers" in says a splendid time is guaran­The Memorial Library Auditor­Hall. 1966 and his second, "Yellow teed to all who come. ium. Completing the array of au­Back Radio Broke-Down," in 
Lee Harwood, whose 1969 thors will be Allen Sang, an August of·l969. Reed will speak book, "The White Room," pub­accomplished New York city at 8 p.m. April 13 in Washington lished by Fulcrum Press, recei­poet, and Nathaniel Tarn, a Hall. ved widespread critical acclaim, French poet, who is currently In addition to their lectures will address an audience at 3 teaching at Princeton University. and poetry readings, Festival p.m.,· April 13 in the Library Perhaps the most versatile of guest authors will visit Notre Auditorium. the guests at the 1970 Festival is Dame classrooms and mingle in­
Anselm Hollo, a 35-year-old poet, journalist, actor and novel­formally with the students. native of Helsinki, Finland, who ist, Ishmael Reed of New York Among authors who have visited is currently teaching at the Uni­City. After an apprenticeship as in the past years are Norman versity of Iowa's creative writing a college-dropout journalist in Mailer, George Plimpton, Peter writing program. A translator of Buffalo, N.Y., Reed became edi­De Vries, John Knowles, John 
the works of several poets, in­tor-in-chief of Advance, a week­Barth, Joseph Heller, Ralph Elli­cluding Russia's fancied Yev­ly newspaper published in New­son, LeRoi Jones, Kurt Vonne­J tushenko, Hollo published ten ark, N.J., and was instrumental gut, Granville Hicks and William 
SLF chairman Bob Hall 
Six groups submit petitions for SBP race 
(continued from page 1) courses. He advocated im belief that student government's and John Kuhn promised a plat­Pet-e Peterson from off­improvement of student services, role is with the problems of the form as "ambiguous and non­
MARCH 
3, 1970 PAGE 3 
Reform demands student, faculty, trustee drive 
By way of summary and review, this 
final segment of the Chancellor­
President position papers intends to 
reiterate those points which have led 
us to advocate a restructuring of Notre 
Dame's administration by the appoint­
ment of Father Theodore Hesburgh as 
Chancellor and Willis Nutting as Presi­
dent. 
Our first consideration was the 
question: What is education? We have 
suggested that one's actual education 
at Notre Dame is very far from the 
ideal higher education. However, it is 
not simply student dissatisfaction over 
lack of good teachers that is at fault. 
Samuel Clemen's adage that he never 
Jet his schooling interfere with his 
education suggests the fundamental 
nature of the problem. Today, coJ;ege 
education (as Dr. Nutting contends in 
his Free City) has become fragmented, 
"scholarly", and needlessly painful for 
those who most want to learn. 
We have suggested Dr. Nutting's plan for the Free City (Temple­gate,l967, available at the Notre Dame bookstore), which emphasizes a "for­mal dialogue" and an integration of all academic disciplines, to show just how far Notre Dame is from the ideal eUucational community. 
The first issue, then, is how do we best educate the man himself? Our answer: through a community of teachers-learners living in a free city of the mind. 
What is a University? We have attempted to answer this question by comparing the ideal uni­versity and the real university. We 
suggested that "the curriculum of the 
to fulfill that f It has 

Students plan 'Shamrocks for Dystrophy Day' 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's students are grouping force$ for an attack next week on muscular dystrophy, one of America's most dreaded and disabling diseases. 
In response to a request by Tom Parnell, district represen­tative of the muscular dystrophy association of America, the Hall Presidents' Council agreed two weeks ago to spearhead the fund drive, slated for Saturday, March 14. 
Tony Scolaro, Alumni Hall President, and sophomore Richard J. Wall, agreed to serve as co-chairman for the effort and 
SPIRO MADE ART CURATOR 
Stephen Spiro, a New York artist who has studied prints and drawings of the 19th century, has joined the Notre Dame staff as curator of the Art Gallery. Spiro holds a master's degree from Adelphi University, Garden City, N.Y., and had previously been associated with a New York art gallery. 
university ought to be interesting, as 
judged by the students who are com­
\3elled to follow it, and second, the 
government of the university ought to 
be fair, as judged by the faculty and 
students who are ruled by it. 
Notre Dame, as most universities, is 
not a community, but a corporation. 
It is on this issue that we find the need 
for a radical university restructuring. 
As Dr. Nutting says, "the educational 
pattern is thoroughly and intrinsically 
wrong." 
Administrative Schizophrenia? 
Could Notre Dame have a better 
administrative structure? Few people 
close to the situation disagree that the 
answer to this question is YES. The 
issue is over what the new structure 
will be. 
Because "universities are split be­
tween their external functions and 
their internal necessities," we have 
found that Father Hesburgh has been 
burdened with too much responsibility 
for any one man. 
The administrative schizophrenia, which tears our President away for one half of the school year to serve on nearly 30 boards and commissions must be confronted. ' 
Chancellor-President structure? 
The i roblem is not that Father 
Hesburgh has Qutlived his usefulness 
but that his responsibilities, as he see~ 
them, no longer correspond to the job 
of university president -namely, the 
supervision and progress of the inter­
nal affairs of the campus itself. 
Within the present structure, too many demands on the person of the President make it impossible for him 

Thus, we envision the establishment of a Chancellor-President system, splitting the present authority of the one President into two offices ac­cording to the already-existing split between the external and internal fun­ctions of the university. 
Hesburgh-Nutting? 
Assuming that we can make the necessary revisions in the by-laws of the university to allow for this struc­tural change, why appoint Dr. Nutting President and Father Hesburgh Chancellor? Our reply is twofold. 
First, the two men have shown outstanding ability to deal with the responsibilities the offices would en­tail. "Chancellor" Hesburgh possesses "a familiarity with both national and international commissions," he also posses "an intense rapport with the alumni." In these areas Father Hes­burgh has displayed both "skill and zeal." "President" Willis Nutting, on the other hand, has lived all of his life as an educator. That he is a teacher of distinction is an undeniable fact (ask anyone who knows him). His capacity for communication and understanding may be without parallel in the Univer­sity. And this ability, so much needed in the Presidency, would greatly bene­fit Notre Dame. 
Second, the two men, through their mutual dedication to the University of of Notre Dame would be able to work in a way that would most benefit the University. The compatibility of these two. is obvious after examining their 
lives. What Do You Think? 
set  a  goal  of  $2,000  for  the  
drive.  Part  of  a  national  cam­ 
paign  entitled  "Shamrocks  for  

Dystrophy Day," the fund­raising endeavor will concentrate on using students from Notre Dame and St. Mary's to collect funds within the halls on both campuses as well as from the South Bend community. 
Shamrock emblems will be distributed to contributors as an acknowledgement of their gen­erosity in the campaign, which takes its theme from the proxi­
mity to St. Patrick's Day. Tentative plans call for hall floor lobby of La Fortune Stu­dent Center. 
Organizers of the fund drive sited two ~oals for the campaign that the drive serve as adeviCe for fostering better relations be­tween the college community and the residents of South Bend. 
Scolaro added that the funds collected would be sent to the National Office of the Muscular Dystrophy Association and the money will be used to promote research, patient services and public health education in an 
effort to eliminate the disease, which strikes primarily at young children. 

in addition to the most imme­diate one of raising the thousand dollars. 
"Above and beyond the rais­
. ing of funds, it is imperative that we offer as many students as possible a chance for involve­ment in a cause that is worth-1 while and meaningful," Scolaro remarked. It is also important 

IORS: Last week for Senior Portraits 
For Appointment Call:· 
3818 or come to 2-C 
LaFortunP 
captains to collect funds withinr----------------""--------------4 
the residence halls on Saturday March 14. Other students will assigned that day to canvas downtown and other ~h.r-.r"";""' districts of South Bend bet the hours of 9 and 5. Workers will be asked to for shifts of two hours. portation will be provided. A meeting of hall captains 'all other students, partie those not notified by the captains, is scheduled for o'clock p.m. Su 
presents 

Dr. Willis D. NuHing 
speaking on •• The Free City " 8:00PM Library Auditorium Tonight 
The Observer Is published daily during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
• FINEST IN STEREOiC 
I 
Tt:A C. A L TEC. LANSING. JVC 
Color TV sets ' JVC 
ZOSS PRODUCTION 
Call 232-2804 

ENDS THURSDAY 
ENTERTAINMENT GEAREO TO PLEASE . THE SOPHISTICATEO AOULT 

position papers would serve as a cata­
lyst to discussion, criticism, and action 
in regard to Notre Dame's adminis­
trative structure. 
We are skeptical of the saving "the 
pen is mightier than the sword," it 
often takes an urgent and dramatic 
event to shake an educational institu­
tion into serious reflection and 
self-criticism. 
That Notre Dame is a good place to 
be is borne witness to by each of us 
every day that we spend here: that 
Notre Dame can become a real com­
munity remains to be seen. 
By remaining here at Notre Dame, each of us bear witness to the fact that Notre Dame is a good place to be. Yet, there are few among us who maintain that this same Notre Dame is a community. The urgency of the pen may not be clear, but the events of the future will probably continue to prove, (as those of the past few years) that Notre Dame is moving away from community. 
Father Hesburgh and Dr. Nutting 
both champion the cause of com­munity and dialogue. To keep this stand from being empty rhetoric we ask that the Board of Trustees and the Notre Dame student body and faculty help us move in this direction. Reform 
is absolutely essential, now. 
If you have any comments or if these position papers have inclined you to join us, or if you desire further clarification, please contact us at: Nutting For President Headquarters, Box 813-sm, Notre Dame, Ind., phone 219-284-4675. Also there is an information center in the Memorial Library Mon.-Thursday from 7 PM 
until II PM. . 
'WJtjch One 
is the 
Cfilulist? 
It's easy to tell a Paulist. Just talk with him. 
The first thing you notice is that he's contemporary. He Jives today, but plans tomorrow with the experience and knowl­edge of yesterday. That's a Paulist characteristic: the abil­ity to move with the times and to meet the challenges of each era. 
A Paulist is also the 111etliator of his age: he tries to bring to­gether the extremes in today's world and the Church, the lib­erals and the moderates, the eternal ~nd the temporal. 
Next, he is very much an indi­vidual. It sets him apart imme­diately. He has his own partic­ular talents and abilities-and he is given freedom to 11.1·e them. 
If you are interested in finding out more about the Paulist dif­ference in the priesthood, ask for our brochure and a copy of our recent Renewal Chapter Guidelines. 
Write to: 
Vocation Director 
cpaulisth
Pat erG 
Room 300 415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 


THB OBSERV£1t

PAGE4 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Editorial 
SMC 0-C housing 
When the executive Committee of the Board of Trustees of St. Mary's meets on March 14, they will be presented with an off-campus housing proposal for the 1970-71 academic year. We feel that this proposal should be considered and accepted by the Committee for several reason. 
In the past St. Mary's has existed as a totally residential community with only a few of its students commuting. There was no chance for a resident to move off-campus unless she had relatives in the immediate area. We feel the college should realize and accept the individual student's needs as a student and as a person. Many residents are unhappy in the dorm situation where the rules and regulations tend to inhibit personal freedom and devel­opment. To demand that these students remain on campus is a mistake and denies the student her freedom of choice in determining her own style of living. 
But besides denying the student her right to develop as she desires, the current policy denies the college c.ummunity the opportunity to establish and maintain a contact with the outside area, and a variation in the current dormitory mode of existence. 
Many fear the loss of identity which a student establishes while living in the dorms at St. Mary's. Students who move off campus will have had at least one year of dormitory living under the proposal which allows only seniors, juniors, and sophomores to leave the campus. This will allow students to establish contact with other residents of the college which the move will not destroy. Also in the bill are suggestions for lunch passes and dry cleaning services which will allow daily contact between resident and off-campus students. This move off-campus can only improve the present environment at St. Mary's, by establishing a variation of ideas, different styles of living, and personal development ultimately making St. Mary's a more realistic and contemporary college. 
One final point should be mentioned. If the off-campus housing proposal is not accepted, students returning to St. Mary's for the fall term will find forced triples, quads, and quints in at least one dormitory. There will be approximate­ly ll 0 more girls than there are beds available. To prevent this intolerably overcrowded condition, we must turn to off-campus housing as the only realistic solution. 
Therefore, it is our opmton that the Executive Committe should accept the proposed bill and allow both the individual and the college to grow and develop. 

Bruce Rieck, Business Mgr. Bruce Barker, Ad. Mgr. News Editor: Glen Corso SMC News Editor: Prue Wear Associate Editors: Cliff Win-
trade, Ann Conway, Jeanne 
Sweeny Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Feature Editor: Dave Stauffer Photography Editor: Mike 
Murphy Night Editor: Jim Holsinger Layout Design: Marty Tieber Layout: Dan Shaw, Mike 
Bridgeman, Sue Reed, Marilyn Stark Headlines: Rich Smith, Phil Schatz, T.C. Treanor Proofreader: Robert Fulton Ad Layout: Jim Flanagan 
The opinions expressed in the editorials, news analyses, and col· umns of The Observer are solely the opinions of the authors and editors of The Observer and do not reflect the views of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, St. Mary's College, their administrations, faculty, or student bodies. 
MARCH 3, 1970 
I.· 
'i' 
'I 
r, 
t 

">aid -No Thanks. I've still got plenty left from last year! 
Letters to the editor 
Overlan's duty 

Editor: 
I would like to offer a few suggestions to the University of Notre Dame and all others interested. First, if the campus police would stop trying to fill their quotas of parking tickets there would probably be a bit more security in the parking lots around campus. The police spend much of their time writing parking tickets, looking for girls in the halls, listening to their radios and filling in the rest of their time' by sleeping. I imagine 
the fault  is  not  all theirs since  
they  are  merely  following  the  
lead  of  their  leader,  Arthur  
Pears.  

And now for the Dean of Students I have this for a suggestion: Since you thought the symbolic burning of the lamb was done in good humor perhaps you will take this with a bit of humor also. There comes a time in every man's life when he no longer can keep up with the changing times. Although I don't believe you ever where in tune with the times, it is a certainty that you are prehistoric. Resign. 
For those of you who think that Notre Dame is becoming more aware than it was in the past, you haven't seen the mentality that the basketball season has created. Instead of Notre Dame being rah-rah for three months it has been extended for four more months and now Notre Dame has the privilege of being totally absurd instead of partially absurd. As one freshman said to me "What did you do around here when the basketball team wasn't any good?" 
This is mostly trivia, I find the most productive way to exist at Notre Dame is to ignore Notre Dame. But I do have an obligation to think, no matter how depressing it might be. 
Larry Overlan 
1233 Notre Dame Ave. 
Signs too Dirty 

Editor: 
Permit me to use the "Letters to the Editor" column to ex­press a few comments concern­ing the tenor of several bits of publicity which have appeared at the Universtiy within the past week, one a notice on the bul­letin boards, the other the car­toons being distributed at the desk in the hall outside the Office of the Placement Bureau. 
Certainly no one will deny the fact that steps need to be taken to guarantee a greater degree of campus security, and I believe that the panel discussion on the matter scheduled for Thursday, February 26th, was a step in the right direction; campus security needs the concern and cooper­ation of all members of the Notre Dame community, a con­cern for the property and safety of others. I question the propri­ety and good taste, however, of the wording of the bulletin cal­ling attention to the meeting. ­There are certain words which are quite appropriate and entire­ly satisfactory in the breeding of c.anines, but I do believe that a careful and impassioned study of Roget's Thesaurus could have produced a word which would have been more in keeping with what might be expected in a community of scholars, and which would have expressed the deep concern which all of us who are dedicated to Notre Dame feel about some of the security conditions which prevail on this campus. 
Concerning the cartoons being distributed in the Administra­tion Building by the groups ob­jecting to interviews by certain companies, the nadir of gopd taste and gentility has been reached; they are the type of scurrilous scratchings one might expect to find on the walls of a public rest-room; gutter cartoons are poor substitutes for talent and imagination. Again, I main­tain that good taste and evi­dences of good breeding could have produced cartoon:; or a 
message of impact without re­sorting to a "pig-sty" theme. Customarily, the creators of car­toons feel enough ~ense of pride to warrant the initialling of their effoFts; the fact that these were not so marked would indicate that the perpetrators were not proud of their work. 
Sincerely yours, 
Lawrence H. Baldinger 

Chairman, Dept. of Prepro­fessional Studies 
Associate Dean for Premedical 

Students 
Lammers too Smart 
Editor: 
Mr. Lammers may leave Wo­
men's Lib to the girls at U.D., 
thank you. The jocks du lac 
wouldn't know what to do witlf 

a feminine freethinker from 
SMC. We're too smart. 
Yours in Saint Mary, 
Judith Lammers 

MARCH 3, 1970 TIIB OBS£Rfl£lt 
PAGE 5 
•

Quiet eventngs at the liberry 




~ 
) 

,. .' ·"ilf,. .• -i.......... ~­
1, t C:,&.W44 I 
.... £.

' 
photos by -~ Dom 
ROUP STUDY· ··' DeLeo 



\ 
' 

:j=::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::~:~:~:~:~:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
~ I  Bridge  by steve Effler  I I  
North  
S  -A, K, 6, 3  
H-A, K  
West  D  - A, 7, 6, 5, 4, 2  East  
s -3, 2  C-K  s ­J, 10, 9, 2  
H -Q, J, 10, 8, 7, 6  H-4, 3  
D-K, 10, 9  D-Q  
C -A, J  South  c ­7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2  
s-Q, 8, 4  
H  -9, 5, 2  
D  -J, 8, 3  
c ­ Q, 10, 9, 8  
A  friend  of  mine  told  me  about this  the good clubs.  

hand without bothering to explain the However, if one leads the fourth round bidding. South somehow managed to end of Spades, East finds himself on lead. Jle up in Three No Trump. In the original is now out of hearts and spades. In order hand the contract was not made. How­to avoid leading to your clubs, he must ever if one is a good double dummy lead the Q of Diamonds. If his partner player, it can be made even against best docs not overtake, you let it hold and on defense. So spread out all four hands and the next trick he leads the desired clubs. ' try it. If West puts out the King in an effort to 
With an opening hand lead, the timing enter for his good heart suit, you over­of the hand is such that it is impossible to take with the Ace, and lead to the set up the diamond suit. One must Diafnond Jack in your hand. The Jack therefore go after the dubs. The first becomes both entry and overtrick. proper defensive play is for West to refuse However, good defense for East neces­to win the club. This effectively destroys sitates pitching the J I09 under the AKQ communication between hands. One must of Spades to avoid giving South an 
use the Q of Spades to enter the South entry. East gives up one trick, saves two hand. Upon leading a card, forcing the and sets the contract. Final answer next ace, there is no additional entry to cash column. 
Student films tonight 
Having featured variety ranging from tionary spirit (with occasional feminist flute dance to political drama, the Stu-allusions.) dent Arts Festival reached its fourth day Beginning with A Cartoon by Pindar is of exhibition. Crowds have been moder-John St~Jpp's first public showi'ng of his ate and accomodations have been com-first major work. Stupp, winsome critic fortable. of Scholastic/Observer prominence has 
Tonight the fieldhouse will house a said about his film "I want everyone to festival of student films. Matt Zivish, see it." South Bend painter turned filmmaker; Phil Curry, professor/photographer at will screen his award winning Visage 11 a St. Mary's College will screen Saturday sterling comment about women and and Lem Swoes's Fool on the Hill will media. David Kahn, veteran filmmaker at make its world premiere. Don Connors Notre Dame, will screen his 71/z minute has promised to submit some of his quasi-documentary of arrant revolu-student's work to be announced toniaht. 

MARCH 3.. 1970

PAGE 6 

Peterson will be .an 'alternative' candidat«~ 
by Mike Mooney 
"Unity" will be the keynote of the SBP campaign of junior Michael "Pete" Pete.rson. Peter­son, a junior in the General f!~ogram, has chosen sophomore history major Rory Baruth as his running mate in a campaign op­posed to what Peterson views as the "polarized" political situa­tion at Notre Dame. 
In an interview Tuesday night, 
Peterson stat~_t!!at he saw little not the same choice as offered by one of the other major candi­dates; it's a choice between us and one of them," said Peterson. 

Peterson listed his major activ­ity as "writer" and added that he had done and was doing publicity work for campus cof­fee houses. Neither Peterson nor Baruth have had experience in 

·McDonald's 
Hamburgers ® 
The way you like 'em best! 
••• 100% BEEF ••. GROUND FRESH ••• PREPARED WITH CARE ••• HOT OFF THE GRILL 
•. . ON TOASTED BUN ••• UM·M·M·M GOOD! 
Come in any time. The service is fast -our prices are right! 
McDonald'•~ 
.. JIOUI' kind of~: 
~ 
OMcDonolcl'•"""'·'• 
difference between whom he considered· the two leading can-dictates, Tom Thrasher and Dave Kra~Tma, and previous campus elections. 
"Students look af the candi­dates and think, 'we got a choice between a Fascist and a Com­mie, who the hell cares'?" obser­ved Peterson. 
He viewed his candidacy as an alternative. "It (Peterson's candidacy) is 
student government. But Peter­son felt that this inexperience was an asset not a liability, that his varied experience was an aid to uniting the various political factions on campus. He felt the experience of the other candi­dates narrowed their political outlook. 
"I think I know more about what various factions on campus all think; 1 can see a larger segment of viewpoint," Peterson 
suggested. 
The junior from Star Lake, N.Y., added that he was getting more "co-operation" than he ex­pected. Peterson broke his cam­
paign into four "main priori­ties": coalition of factions, hall autonomy, academic reform and student services. The "coalition" would be ac­complished through his propos­e d "concensus" government. The consensus government is based partly on Peterson's belief that he represents a wide range of student opinion and his inten­tion to include within the Stu­dent Government structure stu­dents representing the opposing views on campus, possibly even his current opponents. Peterson saw on-campus stu­dents as "tenants" and the Uni­versity as "landlord." "When a student is required to shell-out in excess of $500, he must have 
Stresses hall activity 
(continued from page 1) thing about this organization indicated that he was anxious to business," Pohl said, "I'd hate to set up some kind of public con­see another campaign go by with tact with the other major candi­nothing being accomplished and dates to discuss the important this place ending up the same as isSues. before. We are all taking time "There is another important here to get involved because we
t--------------want to make things better for 
the students and the University.
Congratulations 
None of us pushing this thing are 
From the Brothers of Chi 
out to emphasize any big organi-Sigma Alpha fraternity of u. of 
zation, we just want to get
Dayton for your NCAA bid to the Dayton Regionals. we are organ­
things set up so that people can 
Izing a dance for students from 
have the opportunity to talk to 
competing schools on March 7 
David and Mark. That is the
9:00 PM to 1:00 AM, Flyers: 
Hanger on the main campus. Live 
most important thing, that's the 
band and beer. 
job we're working down here to 

~s_o_u_ili_B_e_~_-_M_~_h_~_a_k_a_·_E_~_h_a_n~~----A-d_m_~_i_o_n_$_J_.s_o___~g~e_t_d_o_n_e_.'_'_________ 
some independence," stated Peterson. 
Within "academic reform," the junior suggested the total abolishment of the present .grad­ing system in favor of a campus­wide pasS:.fail scheme. Peterson regafded the current system as "arcl\aic" a~d added that it was often seen that past grades are "not ·indicative of future per­formance." 
He recommended that a course in "citizenship" be offer­ed, possibly in the Free Universi­ty, to acquaint students, espe­cially off-campus residents, with their civil rights and responsibili­ties. "There are a lot of little things that people assume you know but you don't," said Peter­son. 
One of his objectives under "student services" would be 
Peterson also suggested that a· legal aid society be instituted on campus, not only to assist indi­
vidual students with legal prob­
lems but also to help halls exa­
mine any legal questions that 
may arise in any of their autono­
mous activi The Peterson­
Baruth campaign will be man­
aged by sophomore Bill Driscoll, 
with their headquarters in 411 
Morrissey Hall. 
The Peterson-Baruth campaign will be managed by sophomore Bill Driscoll, with their headquar­ters in 411 Morrissey Hall. 
tighter control over the many food sales activities on 1;ampus. Such control would prc~ferably be exercised. by the halls them­selves but would be imposed by Student Government if necess­ary. The aim of such control would be the improvement of the service and the protection of the operations from "coercion" of catering services. "Halls should control food sales and try to maintain some quality of ser­
vice," said Peterson. 

Thrasher opens drive 
(continued from page 1) 
mentation of coeducation.
He also mentioned the need On the question of half auto­to de-emphasize grades per-se nomy, Thrasher deplored thewith the pass-f~ system to be tendency of Student Govern­encouraged, and called for the ment to contract everythinggeneral easing of academic re­solely under its authority.

striction.s . Thrasher noted that specific 
"Instances of violation of hall policy regarding academic re­autonomy and subsequent stu­form as well as pressing issues of 
dent bitterness immediately dis­coeducation, hall autonomy, les­
illusion people," Thrasher con­tended.

sening of racial tensions, and improvement of off-campus con­
"The halls must be granted ditions, would be made available 
total freedom to create condi­to the students in a series of five 
tions satisfying academic, cultur­position papers to be distributed 
al, social, and religious needs in in the coming days. the hall," he added . In reference to coeducation, In regard to the implementa­Thrasher broached the need for tion of each policy program, a specific program wherein the 
Thrasher stressed the need to Student Government must draw effect a smooth and orderly ~tfuew~~offueMmin~ transition between both in­
tration by convincing the coming and outgoing administra­Administration that S,tudent tions in order to keep the pres­Government is truly acting in sure for new programs focused
TONIGHT! 

the name of the students. on the University Administra Thrasher mentioned the pos­tion. sibility of a total or partial Thrasher and Murray con­
FINAL FINAL 
Ticket Sales 

merger of the Notre Dame-St. cluded their observations in 
Mary's Student Governments, Stanford by emphasizing the 
and the increase in t,he present personal and open approach of
Junior Parents-Son Weekend 
Co-Ex program as necessary their campaign. steps toward the final imple-Voicing the need to meet with as many possible during the
Wed. March.4 
course of the campaign,
8:30PM 
Thrasher hopes to stimulate a

6:30 • 9:30 BLUE • GOLD ROOM LAFORTUNE 
sense of awareness to the
Washington HaJJ 
paten tial of both Student Government and of the students
TICKETS FOR 
Tomorrow 
themselves.

Presidential Dinner OBSERVER BUFFS
Saturday Luncheon 

-We Need Your Help
Communion Breakfast 

THE UBSER VER is in the process of completing its files and finds that it is missing some back issues. We
ALSO "FIFTH DIMENSION" Concert Tickets 

would like to compile complete sets of Observers so we can have a permanent record of our history here
FINAL 

in the office. We need the following. Can you help? Volume I 1966-67 
NO. 5 NO. 50 (March) NO. 6 NO. 54 " NO. 10 NO. 59 " 
Friday: NO. 12 (if we printed that, NO. 67 (April)First Friday far) through the end of the NO. 68 (April)

only 
Playing songs from their album. 

Year. NO. 78 (MAY\ Saturday: 
Volume II 1967-68 NO. 79 (May
America's Stop only 

NO. 1-21 (all of Sept. and Oct.) 
Sensational 8 piece band 

NO. 26 (NOV.) V 1. III 
1968-69

NO. 29 (DEC.) o ume 
NO. 30 (DEC.) NO.J1-35 (JAN.) NO. 29 (OCT.) NO. 39 (FEB.) NO. 62 (Dec.) 
.No. 43 " NO. 83 (Feb)
Plenty offood and FLANNER First Act 8:3~ 
NO. 44 " ~0. 75 (FEB. 19) 
Friday, March 6

drink available 
·NO. 45 " NO. 106 (March ,Saturday, March 7 BA~~~NT Admission $1.00 
NO. 46 " NO. 125 (April) 

MARCH 3, 1970 THE OBSEIHIEit PAGE 7 
ND and the NSA: •IS it wOrth it? 
, This is the second part of a two-part series. In the first part, Notre Dame National Student Association representative Mike 0 'Shaughnessey heartily ensorsed the NSA and urged Notre Dame's C£lntinued participation in the organization. Today, Ob­server reporter T. C. Treanor in­terviews four Notre Dame politi­cal figures to gain their reaction to the NSA. 
ed programs", a situation which he contended was due to a lack of financial backing. 
The SBP admits that Notre Dame doesn't take full advan­tage of the economic opp.ortuni­ties the NSA is supposed to make available. He also contends that most member !\Chools don't send a full file of information to the national NSA office in Wash­ington, and resultantly often­times NSA help is incomplete. 

Mike Shaughnessey is obvious-·"They were very helpful when ly enthusiastic about the NSA, . we were studying the Board of 
but his enthusiasm is not echoed by some of Notre Dame's more prominent figures. Reaction ranged from Fred Detrich's mild irritation to Chris Wolfe's out­raged disgust. 
Observer Insight 
sa 

Student Body President Phii McKenna endorses NSA, but with no particular elan. "For fifty dollars we get enough ser­vices to justify our continued presence," McKenna said, but he berated a "lack of well develop-
Trustees issue, though," Me­
Kenna said. 
The fifty dollars McKenna re­
ferred to is the fifty dollar per 
year dues that the National Stu­
dent Association charges mem­
ber schools. The dues were re­
duced this year after having been 
three hundred dollars over the ·past several years. 
McKenna actmits that had the 
dues remained at the three hun­
dred dollar level he would pro­
bably opt for Notre Dame's 
withdrawal from the organiza­
tion. With dues "at the present 

by Mike Ruffer Two Notre Dame students, Joseph Pavoni and Richard Mur­ley, who are taking graduate courses in Environmental Health Engineering, have organized the Michiana Forum on the Environ­ment. The purpose of this for­um, according to Dr. Philip Sing­er Assistant Professor of Civil E~gineering, is to familiarize the people of the St. Joseph County area with the environmental problems confronting them, especially environmental deten­oration. Senator Gaylord Nelson of Wisconsin proposed a Day of Concern in dealing with the envi­ronment. The date set is April 
22. Progl'ams in accordance with this day have been organized on city, campus and school levels. 
On the city level, according to· Dr. Singer, the mayors of the local towns are expected to declare April 22 as a Day of Concern for their respective towns. ~eakers will address many civic organizations and leagues to help the people of the area gain a better knowledge of these problems. Talks will also be given in the local elementary and high schools. 
A local inventory of the prob­lems of St. Joseph County will be taken; including such aspects· as the air pollution ordinance. Consideration will also be given towards campaigns for the elim­ination of throw-away bottles, and how to eliminate waste dis­charges which make the St. Joseph River unfit for swimming or boating. 
Programs have been scheduled on the campuses of Notre Dame, Bethel College, the South Bend campus of Indiana University and possibly at St. Mary's Col­lege. Dr. Singer added that the purpose of these programs are to 
educate the student body on these environmental problems and to spur them into action to help correct these problems in any way they can. 

Applications available 
Applications for summer em­ployment are now available for interested students. The appli­cations may be picked up in the Placement Bureau Annex, Room 207, in the Main Building. The Annex will be open from I :00 
p.m. until 5:00 p.m., Monday through Wednesday. 
The Bureau, which will com­plete its work on summer em­ployment on March 26, recom­mends that students fill out their applications without delay. Sep­
-

Liberal Arts and. Engineering, Science students are available at the Annex and at the office of the Observer. A'list of employers who will be interviewing in the Placement Office during the week of March 9, is also avail­able at both locations. 
The SLC recently requested the Placement Bu~eau to make these lists more available and to do more in the area of summer employment. The request grew out of controversy over the limited work of the Bureau in level, though, it's worth it," McKenna says. 
McKenna's evaluation of the NSA's worth is not !Jhared by Young Americans for Freedom president Tom Murphy. Murphy contends that NSA membership isn't worth any membership dues. 
"I was glad to see the dues cut," Murphy said. "I suggest that the Senate cut the dues entirely and leave the organiza­tion." 
The Bloomfield Heights, Mich., senior contends that "The organization isn't representative 

Day of Concern set for April 22 
of the student body at Notre r-------.-'---------------------, 
Dame." He suggests that Notre Dame "stay in contact" with the nationwide organizat i Ci>n with­out being a retaining dues-paying membership. 
According to YAF member and Grace Hall president Chris Wolfe, the less Notre Dame asso­ciation with the NSA, the better. When asked about the National Student Association; Wolfe ask­ed in turn. 
"What is it? It seems to me to 
A campus committee has already been established here at Notre Dame in accordance with the Day of Concern, consisting of a chairman and three stu­dents. Dr. Philip Singer, a teacher of Environmental Health Engineering, is the chairman of the committee. The students on the committee are Terry O'Con­nor ( 283-7909), Chris Putman (283-8175), and Tim Pine (233-3767). 
Dr. Sinra expressed his hopes that mo~.:: people would get in­volved in this program. There is a need · for people to act as speakers and instructors on this project. Anyone who is inter~ ested in working on this pro­gram, or those who would like to learn more about the prob­lems facing us and our environ­ment are urged to contact either be an association for radical stu­dents which provides an oppor­tunity once a year at a conven­tion for them to condemn all of society and themselves (if 
of  the  three  students  on  the  
committee  or  Dr.  Singer  
himself.  


they're  white)  and  just  all  of  
society  (if  they're  a  minority  
group)."  

Student Body Vice-President Fred Detrich says that he is not dismayed by anti-NSA activity, although he himself supports the organization. "They have every right to say what they want," Detrich conceded, "But I think the NSA is well worth the time and money we put into it.". 
"In many senses, the NSA convention last summer was not structured enough. Problems arose when there weren't enough speakers, when there weren't enough programs to work on. The NSA conventions need more organization," the Vice-Presi­dent continued. 
Of course, the National Stu­dent Association is dependent on student government partici­pation. As the nationwide organ­ization peruses its uncertain des­tiny, it appears as though Notre Dame's relations with the organi­zation will be just as muddled. 
HAPPY HOUR 
2-4 and 8-10 DAILY 98C a pitcher 
2 Pool Tables REAL Italian Food Pinball 
ample parking in rear Beer & Liquor Carry-out 
The 


SIMERI'S 
-

410 North Hill Street 233-0803 
Allegheny Airlines helps you beat the waiting game ... 
And saves you up to 13%%. 
Allegheny's Young Ac..'ult Card lets you fly whenever you want to (even holidays) and still get advance reservations. 
If you're between 12 and 22, what are you waiting for? Stop by any Allegheny ticket counter and purchase your Young Adult Card. 
Only $5.00 for all of 1970. 
Allegheny Air System We have a lot more going for you 
THB OBSERII£R. MARCH 3, 1970
PAGE 8 
Irish matmen double Chicago Circle 
Sipurt, 7-3. It was a close match 
match as he won a close 3-2
until the third period when

by Terry Shields decision over Tom Powell in 167
Siprut made a reversal for two

Observer Sports Writer lb.
points and a win at 126 lbs. 
Bill Hasbrook won the 177 lb. 
In 134 lb. Keith Giron punish­
match with a well executed 5-0
ed his opponent Larry Zwick!

Notre Dame's wrestling squad win over an injured Bob Mat­
and finally pinned him at l : 28

brought its season dual meet thews. This gave ND an eight
of the third period.

record one mark closer to .500 point lead.
Tom Mordue, 142 pounder,

last night as they dumped Uni­Dean Olmstead and Joe Mul­
came right back for the Circle

versity of Illinois Chicago Circle, team and he pinned Dave Grif­laney wrestled to a draw in the 26-13. The match took place at 
fith at 2: 16 of the second per­190 lb. division. The Irish Olm­the Convocation Center auxi­iod. stead insured a victory with this liary gym with an estimated The turning point of the effort. 

crowd of 150-200 spectators. 
matc)l came in the next bout as Phil Gustafson laughed his The match was a close affair Bob Habig pinned Leroy Magas way to a pin over Joe Kielbasa until the fifth bout of the even­in the 150 lbs. class after a hard to run up the score for ND. 

ing when a Notre Dame pin gave fought two periods and this gave Gustafson, who spends his the Irish the momentum for the 
the Irish a lead that they never autumns playing guard for Ara victory. relinquished. Parseghian, simply muscled his 
The first bout in the 118 lb. 
Co-captain Jim Hansen made man into submission. 

weight class was a big 8-0 white an impressive performance as he This victory gives Coach Terry wash for ND's Phil S-utton. Sut­manuevered Phil Kotas at will Mathers' boys a 5-6 dual meet ton dominated his man through­for a 12-0 decision. Hansen pin­record, far below what had been out the entire three periods. 
ned his man right after the final originally expected. Some indivi-· Tom Ciaccio, one of the more 
buzzer in the 155 division. dual performances have made consistent grapplers for the Irish the grapplers worth going to
Ken Predovic made a valiantthis season, was upset by Joe watch.

effort to put Chicago back in the 
P. Sutton (NO) d. M. Okubo 8-0 

J. Sipurt (UIC) d. T. Ciaccio 7-3JIM MURRAY 
K. Giron (NO) pin L. Zwickl 
T. Mordue (UIC) pin D. Griffith 
B. Habig(ND) pin L. Magas 
J. Hansen (NO) d. P. Kotas 12-0 
K. Predovic lUI C) d. T. Powell 3-2 

A Most 
B. Hasbrook (NO) d. B. Matthews 5-0 
D. Olmstead (ND)-M. Mullaney draw 
P. Gustafson (NO) pin J. Kielbasa

Helpful Guy Familiar faces in NIT tournament 
Duquesne, which won the (£) 1970,'Los Angeles Times NEW YORK (UPI) -There Louisiana State, which boasts NIT in 1955 in one of 13 will be several familiar faces in the greates scorer of all time in
In golf, a caddie is a guy who hands you your clubs, rakes tra~s, appearances in the tournament,
the National Invitational basket­Pete Maravich, St. John's of New won II of its last 12 games thiscleans the ball, and carries the bag. He's the coolie of sports. 
ball tournament next week. York, Georgia Tech and Mar­
In baseball, a "caddie" is the guy who goes in the outfield for an season and finished with a 17-6 
Utah and Duquesne, two for­quette, which spurned a NCAA
aging slugger in the late innings of the game for defensive purposes. record. 
mer NIT champions, and four­bid. 
The Dukes were led by JarrettIn hockey, he's a penalty-killer. 

time semifinalist Army were a­the NIT in
In basketball, he's the guy sent to fetch the ball for the big Utah, which won Durham, twins Barry and Gl!rry 
mong six schools added to the 1947 by beating Kentucky in
fellows. He in-bounds the ball, sets up the play, brings the ball up Nelson and playmaker Bill Zopf. 
field Monday for the 33rd an­the final, wound up its regular
court. He's the stagehand, the grip, the chorus boy. In a movie, he'd Army, 19-5, will be making its 
nual post-season competition season Saturday night tied for
be the faithful old Indtan companion, Tonto. seventh NIT appearance boasting
March 13-21 at Madison Square second place in the Western
Guy Rodgers is th~ g;eatest "caddie" in the history of the nation's leading defense with 
Garden. Athletic Conference with
professional basketball. The i1st of guys he's been butler to reads like an average yield of 52 points per
Manhattan, Georgetown and Wyoming.
a Who's Who of all-time pivot men and scorers for the NBA-Wilt game.
Miami of Ohio also accepted The Utes, 17-9, were paced by 
Chamberlain, Nate Thurmond, Lew Alcindor. But, that's nothing. Georgetown was 18-7 this sea­
bids Monday to raise the number Mike Newlin and Ken Gardner,
Guy Ridgers made Bob Boozer one of the top scorers of the NBA son and Manhattan was 16-7 
of teams already named to l 0 whose uncle, Vern, was the
one year. while Miami, which still has one 
for the 16 team tournament. NIT'S Most Valuable Player in
A "caddie" doesn't deal in glamour statistics like baskets, regular season game to play, has 
The first teams named were 1947.
rebounds, free throws (when you play on a team with Chamberlain, won eight straight and is 14-8. nobody bothers to foul YOU). He gets paid for "assists," a kind of inhuman sacrifice, where you maneuver the other team onto the wrong foot, the wrong side of the court, the wrong man-and then· 
Irish retain rank in UPI poll
flip the ball to the open man or the team's surest shooter. 
You're as important to your team as the basketball. You have to NEW YORK (UPI) -The 23 of the 35 first place votes moved past Pennsylvania, the 
have as many pitches as a 20-game winner in baseball or as accurate United Press International top cast and 332 points. lvy League winner, into seventh. 
an arm as an all-pro quarterback in football. You have to be able to 20 major college basketball The figure easily surpassed Drake moved into ninth place 
throw a fast pass, a high pass, low pass, pass behind-the-hack, teams with first place votes and Kentucky, which took second and Marquette completed the 
under-the-arm, fast ball, changeup, bounce pass. And you have .:o be won lost records in parentheses. with nine first place votes and top 10. 
a good enough shooter so the other guys can't just side back and 13th week. 303 points, and South Carolh'ia, Five coaches from.each of the 
cover everybody and dare you to shoot it. Tum P~nb third with three first place nom­seven geographical areas of the 
Figures say that Oscar Robertson is the best assister in hasketball l. UCLA (23)'(23-1) 332 inations and 268 points. nation comprise the UPI ratings 
history. But Oscar was caddie for Oscar Robertson much of the 2. Kentucky (9) (23-1) 303 St. Bonaventure held o~ to board. Each week they select the 
tim(;. He had the ball more often in a game than an Ohio State 3. So. Car. (3) 23-2) 268 fourth, New Mexico State re­top I 0 teams in the nation with 
quarterback. 4. St. Bonaventure (20-1) 228 mained fifth and Jacksonville points awarded on a 10, 9, 8, ... In six of the last l 0 NBA seasons, Guy Rodgers was second in the 5. New Mex. St. (23-2) 208 clung to sixth. Iowa, newly ' 1 basis on votes from first 

league in assists-once to Bob Cousy and five times to Big Oscar. 6. Jacksonville (23-1) 123 crowned Big Ten champion, through lOth. Twice, Guy was first himself. 7. Iowa (17-4) 120 He holds the record for more assists in one season-908 in 8. Pennsylvania (25-1) 116 
Cepeda not a holdout
1966-67, when he topped Robertson by 63 assists-and had 11.2 per 9. Drake (20-6) 41 WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. tails of his money hassle with
game versus Robertson's l 0. 7. That was the year people stopped 10. Marquette(20-3) 34 (UPI)-Orlando Cepeda, the At­the Braves, but did say he andsaying Guy Rodgers was good because Wilt Chamberlain was great. II. Houston (22-3) 29 lanta Braves' holdout first base­Richards were "close" to
Because, that year, Guy played for the expansion Chicago Bulls, and 12. Florida St. (23-3) 28 man, says he is "only a conversa­$ 1 0 ,000 apart. Cepeda got
Guy was not only the league's leading assist-maker but the team's 13. Davidson (22-4) 25 top scorer(he beat Boozer, 1459 to 1436). It was a team which had a 14.TexasE!Paso(l7-6) 23 tion" away from signing his $83,000 last year and has reject­I 970 contract. ed two contracts calling for cuts.
forecourt consisting of several of the great nobodys of our time. 15. Western Ky. (21-2) 17 Meanwhile, Manager LumanHe said, by teleph0ne fromGuy Rodgers is 33rd in the all-time scoring list in pro basketball 16. No. Car. St. ( 19-6) 12 Harris decided to get an earlyhis home in Puerto Rico, that hewith over l 0,000 points-but he is third in the all-time assist list 17. Cincinnati (20-4) 10 look at Jim Nash, the righthas never told anyone he is(behind Cousy and Robertson) and has a 3.000 bulge over his 18. Notre Dame (20-6) 9 bander obtained from Oaklandholding out for $90,000, as re­nearest active compet9tors. He and Cousy co-hold the one-game 19. North Carolina (18-7) 8 for Felipe Alou. Nash. botheredported. He said he was anxious
assist record of 28, and Guy is all alone for the second-most assists in 20. Villanova ( 19-6) 5 last season by shoulder trouble, one game-24. to get to work and had been 
will share mound duties with
NEW YORK (UPI) -UCLA 

waiting all weekend for Vice
At age 34, coming off an injury which put him on crutches, Guy George Stone and Milt Pappas in 
will take its season long lead 

President Paul Richards to call
has become a 10-minute player which he finds slightly noisome after Atlanta's Grapefruit Leag~­
among college basketball teams 

him.
an 11-year career in which he spent 27,912 minutes fetching the ball ooener Fridav against the Mon­
into the last week of the season. 

Cep_eda would not divulge de-tre:>l Expos.
like a good little caddie. Only four active players have more floor 
The Bruins were assured of

time. 
that today when the 35 member If Milwaukee wins the championship, look for F. Lewis Alcindor 
United Press International Board to make Super-Rookie. But, don't be surprised, if, before the 
of Coaches named them the top·playoffs start, they call Super-Caddie off the banch one more time 

college team in the nation for 

let him smell the ball, and then say to him once more, "Now, go get 
the 13th consecutive week. 

it for him (pointing to Alcindor) like you did for all those other guys 
all those other years." 






