
VOL. IV, NO. 91 
Tracey victorious • SMC election
1n 
Ann Marie Tracey is SMC's new Student Body President . 
by Prue Wear junior Nan Cavanaugh by a vote Tracey, 58 for Cusick, and 16 SMC News Editor of 432 to 148. Abstention votes abstentions. The total number of In an election which brough 
totalled 181. voters was 774. Unopposed candidate Carol Commenting on the election,out 67% of the SMC Student 
Body, Ann Marie Tracey yester­Henninger was affirmed as Aca­Ann Marie Tracey said last night, day became the first sophomore demic Affairs Commissioner "I think it is significant that 67% with 544 in favor, only 24 of the student body turned out
to capture the office of Student 
opposed and 194 abstentions. to vote. Despite what people say 
Body President. Tracey defeated her opponent 
The vote count by all went as this shows there is an interest on by 21 I votes receiving 441 votes 
follows: Holy Cross -162 for the part of the students in what to Junior Carol Cusick's 230. Tracey, 29 for Cusick, 14 happens at SMC." There were I 03 abstention votes abstentions; Le Mans -96 for "We plan to carry out the registered in the SBP votes. Tracey, 67 for Cusick, and 39 principles of our platform and to 1unior Karen Schultz was abstentions; McCandless -63 be open to any other suggestions 
elected to the seat on the for Tracey, 36 for Cusick, 34 by students as we try and abstentions; Regina -120 for develop new ideas of our own,"
,'itudent Affairs Council over 
Thrasher a·nd Murray 
We enthusiastically endorse Stay Senator Tom Thrasher and his running mate Greg Murray for the offices of Student Body President and Vice President. We feel that they stand out above all candidates in their aptitude for the office and Thrasher singularly stands out in his experience and record in student government. 
Thrasher has been a Stay Senator for one year and has served the students faithfully in that position. lt was through his persistent efforts working on the finance committee that for the first time this year students can be assured that their activities fee is going to worthwhile projects instead of being misused through waste 
and graft. He has continually stood for honest student government. He has argued for the streamlining of the mass bureaucracy of La Fortune continually urging officials to get out into the halls and to talk to the students instead of spending most of their time in their offices. His attitudes toward hall autonomy and the need for increasing the importance of the Hall Presidents's Council show that his sense of priorities lies where students are affected the most-in the halls. His progressive proposals for academic reform show that he realizes the need to make education more exciting and dynamic. We like his plans for work-study programs, expansion of pass-fail and the co-ex program. We like his plan for developing courses on a student interest basis by asking the university to grant credit for new courses which are developed by individual students and faculty members. Thrasher stands firmly for co-education. He stands for other improvements in hall life and in the environment here like improved security. By realizing that we must not forget to work hard to improve the things that affect students every day he shows that he is aware of the fact that the total educational environment is important.Thrasher's ideas for improving minority recruitment are novel and far-sighted. He favors bringing high school seniors to Notre Dame in order to let them see what Notre Dame is like. He feels that this will be much more effective than limiting the recruitment program to only sending people out. Perhaps the major difference between the two candidates comes in their positions on the legislative branch of student government -the Senate. In contrast to David Krashna, Thrasher realizes that student government needs such a representative body to research and propose means toward academic reform, for improvement in security, the dining halls and in many other areas that affect student life. At the same time Thrasher has emphasized the need for a strong Hall Presidents' Council to handle hall matters. But unlike Krashna he realizes that improving the hall community is a full time job. Krashna suggests that the Hall Presidents take on two jobs -their own functions as hall presidents as well as that of senator. But if a hall president must spend time away from the halls researching proposals for such things as academic reform, can he really give as much time as is needed to the job of hall president? Under Krashna 's proposal each hall president must spend time at one meeting in a different hall. If the meeting is open to comments by the students, the group will no doubt have to meet again to work out the particulars of any proposal that it is working on. Add the time that the hall president will have to spend on committies working on proposals and it is easy to see that he will no longer be a hall president. It is Thrasher alone who realizes that hall community can come only if you have a full time hall president. The Senate has faltered for the past year and one half only because of its confusion of roles created by the advent of the SLC. It worked hard through this year to reassert leadership by keeping an eye on student government expenditures and recently has come up with a series ot proposals on academic reform which include a proposal for an academic grievance committee. There is a m•ed for a strong senate. We believe that Tom Thrasher can assure that by his enthusiasm and hard work that we have the strong senate that we need. Thrasher's selection of Greg Murray as a running mate is a good one. Murray's background is significant in that as a resident of Alumni Hall he has been working all year to try to get black and white students to communicate with one another. We feel that Tom Thrasher would make an outstanding Student Body President. 
__ We urge,:._______ all students to support__:._;:_____ him with_:__~:._:_--=-=-~:..:...:....:~:..__their vote tomorrow. __

...__ . -~--------1 
she said. 
"There is a purpose for both of us (Carol Cusick and her­self)," she continued, "and de­spite the outcome of the elec­tion we would both continue to make contributions. Carol has many well-formulated ideas and I hope she will work with us in their implementation." 
Jean Gorman, Vice-President for the coming year, said "We are happy we have won and I feel that we have a big job to fulfill. The student structure has set a good ground for us to work with." 
In an interview last evening, 

Carol Cusick commented on the 
election and the campaign. "The 
most important thing for every­
one now is to question the 
structure and why we're doing 
what we're doing. The point of 
the abstention movement and 
the questioning they advocated 
should be kept alive on the 
campus from now on." 
She and her running-rna te 

Suzie Way, she continued, were 
"never quite sure that by getting 
involved in the structure we 
wouldn't be caught up in the 
day-to-day specifics which 
would keep us from creating the 
atmosphere we would like to see 
here." 
She spoke of the disagree­

ments expressed at the Open 
Forum, "The Forum was no 
compliment to what we're doing 
in Student Government. The 
superficial reaction against peo­
ple trying to get rid of some­
thing that obviously was good 
was disheartening." 
"Suzie and I will be very busy 

next year," she said, "we'll be 
laying plans for an informal 
educational program on racism, 
and I will personally be actively 
concerned with the Experi­
mental College." 
SMC Student Body President 

Susan Turnbull commented last 
night "I was very pleased with 
the large turnout of voters. Ann 
Marie is a very capable girl and 
I'm sure she's equal to the 
challenge. One of the big !ems they will run up against next year will be the student's right to privacy, both in her room and in the information on her sign-out card. These rights will have to be defined. Consid­eration should also be given to the role of the college president on the Student Affairs Council whether he is to act as a committee member or the man holding the veto power," 
The students who advocated abstention in the election were polled for their reactions. Anne Reed said, "When you consider the number of abstentions this year compared with last year the Abstention Movement had a great impact. There was a significant increase in those voting and those abstaining, and in that way, the movement achieved one of its prime goals. I'm really pleased. Even allowing that a percentage of those abstaining votes cast were not cast for us, there's still a significant increase." 
Maureen Meter and Sue Keres, 
other students involved in the 
movement, said that they will 
continue to raise the question of 
a referendum for a moratorium 
next year because they feel there 
was a "justifiable amount of 
abstentions to merit going on." 
Karen Schultz, who will be 
next year's representative to the 
Student Affairs Council, said last 
night she believes in the struc­
ture as it now stands. "In the 
past two . years I have seen the 
changes that have been made 
and I am pleased that I can work 
with it next year." 
Carol Henninger, Academic 
Commissioner for the 1970-71 
year commented that she was 
"pleased that as many students 
responded as did with as little 
publicity as the Open Forum 
and the election areas received. I 
hope that those in the student 
government positions realize 
that despite the voting response 
there was a very good point 
brought out at the Open Forum 
and that they should step back 
and take a look at Student 



TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 1970
PAGE 2 

University Forum presents meeting format 
by Dan O;Donnell 

After all the volunteers have volunteers to give their talks on had a chance to get in contact March l 7. The talks will beProf. Donald Sniegowski, with the Committee they will presented in three groups and
Chairman of the University For­meet again and select nine each group will be followed by
um, reported that the Agenda The meeting will close with a discussion. This should provide

Committee has set up the format private meeting from 7:30 until as much time for discussion as
for the next meeting, March 17. 
9:00 during which the Forum for speeches.
The Committee is made up of members will discuss what has Mr. Sniegowski emphasizedSister Suzanne Kelly, Joseph happened at the open session the "exploratory nature" of thisKelly, Philip Faccenda and Mich­and set plans for the last Forum second meeting of the Forum

ael Kelly. Sister Suzanne and meeting of the year scheduled and also stated that they would
Joseph Kelly are coordinators for the meeting. 

for April 25. attempt to have the definite Mr. Sniegowski went on at agenda ready to be distributedThe meeting will' consist of length to describe the open by pamphlet or reprinted in Thefour sessions. From 12 until session. He said, "Hopefully it Observer on Monday, March 15.
1:30, the members will conduct will be held in the Libracy Sniegowski concluded by em­

t'.-eliminary business and attend a luncheon. The next session, 

Auditorium." He outlined a new phasizing two points about this described by Sniegowski as "by procedure for this segment of meeting. "First of all the Agenda the meeting. "We are soliciting Committee does not want this to
far the most important," will be an open session from 2:00 until members of the community, · be a simple question and answer 
students, faculty and administra­session. Forum members will not5:30. 
tion, to give ten minute position answer direct questions but will
This will be followed by dinner. The 24 Forum members 

talks at this time. They can be involve themselves in discussion on any topic relevant to the
will be divided into 4 groups for with the rest of the assembly. this dinner. They will eat in the 
community. We hope that the speakers from Sniegowski said that there was the community will present
dining halls in order "to try to get some kind of contact going a deadline of noon Friday for questions that we can all discuss students who wish to apply to together. The Forum will be
with the students in the condi­Sister Suzanne for permission to seeking information rather thantions in which they live," Snieg­

ows.ki said. .addr!':Stihe EDr.ll.m.---After-ltH--#te-giving seeming solutions. This 
Tri-Class Prom pla.nned for May 1 Semi-formal in order to cut costs 
This year's prom will be

This year's Tri-Class Prom will sion. This, he feels, makes the
semi-formal, in order to cut tne

be held Friday night, May l, at weekend a quite attractive one.
cost to the individual students.

Stepan Center with the theme of The prom theme, "Chances
Flowers will be considered out

"Chances Are," Greg Stepic Are," is taken from a bar in Old 
of place.

chairman of the event annot.m­Town, Chicago. Stepic said that
Stepic stated that the prom

ced. He emphasized that the Stepan Center would be deco­
will be run as a full weekend. 

prom would be carefully coordi­rated in the manner considered
"We will be working closely

nated with the rest of Grand "heavy." Black light effects will
with Grand Prix," he said. "Two
Prix weekend. be used liberally. 
tickets for Grand Prix and a

The selection of May l, Stepic Stepic also stated that the
Post-Grand Prix Saturday after­

said, was due to the committee's Grand Prix Queen will be
noon picnic will be included in

desire for as many freshmen, crowned at the Tri-Class Prom,
the bid price of $10.00. A
sophmores and juniors as possi­unless she is a senior. 
champagne breakfast is also

ble to be able to attend. Last The other members .of the
being considered for May 3 but 

year, the prom was held a week Tri-Class Prom Committee are
this will depend on the number

before final exams, "obviously," Steve Castellano, Freshman Re­
of people that show interest."

said Stepic, "the wrong time." presentative, Kathy Sylvester,
Also, Stepic noted that the

He added, "we hope an early Executive Secretary, Mary Ann
Sly and the Family Stone

May prom will make attendance Hornback, Donna Barkley, Cris
Concert is being offered the

easier for those who happen to Lill, and Bill Studenic, Art and
night of Saturday, May 2, by the
be interested in finals." Design.
~tudent Union Social Commis­

won't be a press conference for sentatives of groups but hopt:d the For)Jm but a chance for us that enough people would apply to explore and listen more than so that the Committee could we did at the first meeting. present a truly representative 
Sniegowski also expressed a group of speakers at the open desire that all segments of the session. Finally Sniegowski reiit­community attempt to make erated the deadline for contact­themselves heard. He indicated ing Sister Suzanne Kelly by that they would welcome repre-·noon, Friday, March 13. 
Literary contest open 
Entries are now being accept­fore 4:00 Wednesday, April 8, ed for the three annual literary 1970. Judges will be faculty contesL sponsored by the English members of St. Mary's and Department, Dr. Donald Notre Dame. Costello announced. 
The awards are: 


SBR needs help
The Samuel Hazo Poetry Award of $50.00 which is given Students for Biafran Relief 
to the undergraduate who writes desperately needs assistance 
the outstanding poetry of the from any concerned individuals. 
current school year. Each poet is At the present SBR is trying to 
asked to limit his entry to a make a mailing of approximately
maximum of five poems. 

6,000 items and needs all types of clerical help. Anyone interest­The Mitchell Play A ward of 
ed should call the Student $50.00 given to the undergrad­
Government Office and leave 
uate who submits the best play. 
their name and phone number,One act or longer. 
or drop by the Biafran Relief Offices on the second floor of 
The Meehan Medal which is LaFortune Student Center. 
given to the senior who writes Any time which could be the best essay on a literary given would be appreciated. Also 
subject. Class papers, of course, anyone interested. in helping are eligible. 
solicit funds for Biafra in the South Bend area starting next Entries must be typed, identi­Saturday sho\lld contact Dan 
fied by the author's name, and Sherry, 224 Dillon or call him at 
submitted in three copies to 1692. This help is urgentlyRoom 309 O'Shaughnessy be-needed. 

Big push just starting 
just excellent," Miss Grabowski
A member of the Nutting for... 
noted, yet the Board of Trustees
President campaign, Karen Gra­
and President Hesburgh have
bowski, revealed yesterday that 
both remained silent on the
the "big push" of the Nutting 
subject. Each of the 41 trustees
drive is just starting. Faculty 
received an explanatory letter,
members are being contacted by 
but not one has responded.
phone, and hall representatives 
Similarly, Father Hesburgh, who 
are enhancing the petition drive 
is in Argentina until Thursday,
by getting in touch with individ­
hasn't answered any of the four
ual students. Preparations are 
letters sent him by the Nutting
also being made for an import­
committee. The success or fail­
ant meeting to be held at 6:30 ure of the entire movement
-------~-------------------tomorrow on the second floor of depends ultimately on the Board
La Fortune. In spite of the fact of Trustees, naturally influenced that the "big push" has only just by Father Hesburgh. At anybegun, over I ,000 valid signa­



VOTE 
·rate, Miss Grabowski affirmedtures have been collected on that because the new concept isbulletin board petitions. 
good, the committee will pnsh"Student response has been until it is accepted. 
·1 So far, faculty response has been very favorable to the (proposed chancellor-president

OR STUDENT BODY PRESIDEN 
plan. Professor Bernard Norling
CENSUS 
of the History' Department com­mented that Nutting's "concern for students and good relations with them, and, above all, his common sense and ability to see 


AND VICE-PRESIDENT 
DAY 

IS APRIL l 
things in their proper proportion 

MARCH 11th IN YOUR HALLS 
are well known." Norling added that Nutting should make an "admirable university execu­tive."



DURING LUNCH 
' 
Michael J. Crowe, Chairman of the General Program, remark­ed that Nutting "has great talent 


CENSUS 

AND DINNER HOURS 

lfor administration," but that a 
·~·more appropriate position might be "philosopher-king." 
On the other hand, Professor Robert E. Gordon, Associate Dean of Science, could not 
""E,.~Tts, .~.,.,.,., w('"-• 
support the plan. He observed

OFF CAMPUS STUDENTS 
that the presidency of a univer­

~~" ~\··.~.) 
sity entails "long hours, a rapid
~u,.c.'"'e l:I.J
....,.. ot, 
pace, and response to heavy
advertising contributed 
demands." He concluded, "Pro­


VOTE 9-Spm IN THE 0-C OFFICE 
for the public good 
fessor Nutting, who has given so much to this community, de­;erves better than that."

Seniors May Vote 
The Obsarver is published daily during the college semester except vacations by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 


TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 1970 
tw£0~~~~~--------~==================~--PA_G_E_J 

SBP Candidate Pete Peterson 
Krashna, Winings 'reply' 
hy Don Ruane 
Greatly upset hy statements made by SBP candidate Tom Thrasher in yesterday's Obser­ver, Dave Krashna and his running mate, Mark Winings, commented on them yesterday in their campaign headquarters. They were chiefly concerned with Thrasher's comments on tlu:ir student forum plan and the challenge to a debate. 
Krashna "couldn't gel over" the acct)sation that their plan was "foolish and impractical", particularly when Thrasher did not point out concretely any part that was unstable. "We can constantly throw hack the same arguments if we want, hut I think that's foolish and impracti­cal,'. added K rashna. Winings answered Thrasher's charge that the forum would not be repre­sentative by saying that there are two types of representation. "The first is the senate type which is a strictly puppet repre­sentation. There is no consensus arriving from it. People don't get 
Thrasher discusses halls 
to the problems of the halls. The senate has never got ten any consensus from the halls and there is no reason to believe that they will in the future." He cited the large number of senators that have resigned and added that there is also a large number that agree that the senate should be abolished as evidence for the 
validity  of  their  plan.  Under  
their  plan.  the  forum  would  
meet  in  a  different  hall  each  

week. Everyone would be in­vited and have a chance to challenge the SBI', SBVP and anyone else concerned with student government. "I consider the senate foolish and impracti­cal," concluded Winings. 
Another topic that aroused the ire of Krashna and Winings was the quote concering the honesty and effectiveness of the student recruitor program. Krashna said the statement was "definitely mud", and Winings called it a lie. Krashna said the work was hard and that the "job gets done." Krashna had made a recruiting trip to Atlantl' and 
l 

by Steve Hoffman Declaring it an "absolute necessity that the Student Body President and Student Govern­ment remain open and sensitive to individual problems within individual halls," Student Body President candidate Tom Thrasher last evening discussed his concepts of hall government. Thrasher emphasized the need for the further development and increased implementation of hall autonomy, especially in the establishment of parietal hours under the jurisdiction of the Hall Life Board. To better understand the problems and issues relevant to each individual hall, Thrasher 
Genetist to talk 
Dr. Millard Sussman, profes­sor of genetics at the University of Wisconsin, will address a microbiology seminar at 12:30 
p.m. WednesdaY (March II) in 
Room  141 of the University of  
Notre  Dame's  Radiation  Build­ 
ing.  

Sussman will give a general overview of bacterial genetics as the beginning of a series of lectures on the subject. His talk, called "General Bacterial Gene­tics," is open to the public. 
urged that the Chairman of the Hall President's Council be in­cluded within the Student Government Cabinet. 
"With this valuable addition 
to the Cabinet, Student Govern­
ment can open up one !Pore 
channel, and can create a closer 
contact with the hall," Thrasher 
contended. 
Further, Thrasher advocated the allotment of money by Student Government back to the halls to be used in the interest of the individual student. In this manner of augmenting hall fi­nances, Thrasher felt that Stu­dent Government and the halls could "share the we.alth." 
Turning to the current prob­lem of security instability, Thrasher encouraged the realiza­tion of the recommendations in general of the SLC. In particular, Thrasher proposed the introduc­tion of the Honeywell Security System, at the installment costs of approximately $180,000. Al­though the University Adminis­tration is presently reluctant to provide the necessary funds, Thrasher felt that a firm basis of student support would facilitate University approval. 
Thrasher noted that the sys­tem would pay for itself within four years through decreased 
used this experience to substan­
tiate his statement. 
"It's impractical, their pro­
posal to bring Black students 
here," Winings was saying when 
Krashna interrupted. "There was 
a hassle in the senate to give us 
$4,000 to have stu-dents go out 
to the high schools. If you bring 
in 200 students who want to be 
recruited, it's almost impossible 
with the money they've allotted 
from the student senate. It's 
probably the most ideal thing to 
do, but certainly not the most 
practical." 
Both Winings and Krashna were resentful of the way the Thrasher headquarters presented their debate proposal. Winings rejected the tactic of deciding to challenge and then release the challenge to the press without first consulting his headquarters. "It's not that we are against a debate, but there can be some consideration given to us. We 
(Continued on page 6) 
Peterson 
by Greg Pudhorodsky 
Pete Peterson, candidate for 
Student Body President, an­
nounced that he will release 
literature in the halls tonight 
concerning what he feels are the 
Problems confronting the indl!­
pendent candidate in his dealings 
with the news media. 
Holding off comment on the 
exact nature of the material 
Peterson did elaborate on what 
he feels is one aspect of the 
situation, the polls. The junior 
GP major said that the dif­
ference between the respective 
figures of The Observer poll, the 
WSND poll, and a private poll 
conducted by the Peterson or­
ganization was proof of their 
inconclusiveness. Peterson was 
quoted that there is a disparity 
of "up to eight per cent" in the 
polls. 
The most recent Observer poll 
salaries resulting from a reduced but more competent security force, and through better light­ing and fences around the parking lots to discourage van­dalism. Thrasher remarked that the solution to the security problem must be viewed in relation to other issues on campus. 
"As Student Government pro­gresses in academic reform, co­education, racial tensions, and fiscal matters, the frustration and alienation underlying vanda­lism will disappear," Thrasher stated. 
Thrasher and his running mate Greg Murray spoke last evening on WSND, and answered specific questions phoned in by students. A good portion of the program centered dually around the use­fulness of the Student Senate, 
and the feasibility of candidate Dave Krashna's advocacy of the Student Forum. 
Thrasher and Murray both reaffirmed their contention that the Senate, transformed into 
primarily a research and com­mittee body, could provide an active, necessary force within Student Government. 
In their support, Senators John Mateja from Lyons, and 
(continued on page 6) IL---------------------­
had Peterson with five per cent of the vote. 
The candidate commented on what detrimental effect he be­lieved such polls could have on the election: "The polls · in­fluence the casual voter who will vote for who he feels will win rather than for the best man." 
In a yellow t1yer circulated last night Peterson accused The Observer and Obser11er Editor Guy De Sapio and News Editor Glen Corso in particular of unfair reporting practices. 
"We will stand on our re­cord," said Observer Editor Guy De Sapia, "we have attempted to be as fair as we could given our space limitation in our coverage of the candidates. Throughout the year the Stu­dent Body can probably attest to our fairness and objectivity. Pete is probably saying some­thing now in the heat of the campaign that he would not say otherwise. Pete has written for us throughout the year and knows of our policy of fairness and objectivity. Today we en­dorsed a candidate. We hope to show the Student Body through the arguments in the editorial that he is the best man. We believe that fact wholeheartedly and so will endorse him to the hilt editorially. Our news writing will remain fair so that students 
"nJJ{,usc JYt'sioa3u. 
Cr<'ftsmen in Optics 
• 
FOR THE FINEST EVEGL.4SSES AND CONTACT LENf.ES -­
TIIH SIIHRI.AND BLJ>G. 132 S. MICHIGAN ST. 
Central 2-.1468 
~Jlouse o} ViSiGJt 3ttc · 
Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.-· Chicago 

~----------------------------------------------------~ 
Hair Styling the Continental Way-J:,uropean Layer Cut, Hair Coloring and Straightening-Specials for 
students Our Motto: "Have long hair and be well groomed" 
For appointment call 234·0811 Continental Hair Styling 306 Sherland Bldg. Comer Michigan-Jefferson 

Certified Master Stylists The Baron and Miss Treva to serve and pamper you 
can draw their own conclu­sions." 
"As far as Peterson's accusa­tion about promising to run a letter that he wrote, we made no promise to any candidate since to promise to run any particular things would be contrary to any policy of fairness. Pete's feeling that one point raised in Friday's article was not properly inter­preted was cleared up in Mon­day's story on Peterson," De Sapia concluded. 
Peterson went on to state his belief that the campaign offefl'. the student voters only , 'Une alternative anp that choice is the Peterson-Baruth ticket, which he said has remained fle.xihle. 
"Both the liberal and the conservative candidates, Krashna' and Thrasher, decided their positions before the issues arose. A choice between two inflexible positions is no choice at all," he said. 
Peterson commented on his 
ralationship with the two other 
major candidates in the cam­
paign. He said that the Krashna­
Winings ticket has not been 
diplomatic in their dealings with 
his organization. He mentioned what he felt was the lack of cooperation on the part of Krashna in the area of the three man debate as an example. 
(Continued on page 6) 



TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 1970
PAGE 4 

THE OBSERVER 
An l~ndent· Student Newtpaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-ln-Citlel 
Tom Thrasher and Greg Murray 

selected issues.· This group, the social scientist does not end 
Notre Dame's national image
known as the Student Survey with the sterile presentation of 
give a strong indication of the SURVEY RESPONSES
Service, has finished compiling data. It is also his responsibility 
degree to which students want
its first survey, which gives the to put forth a meaningful 
their internal affairs to be 
on-campus students' attitudes on analysis of his findings. The 
On February 23rd the Student Life Council passed a resolution

dictated by external factors.
parietal hours. following is our report. 
Although question nine says calling for individual determination of parietal hour procedure byThe five senior Sociology Parietal hours has been an little about the actual effect on each residence hall, after consultation with and approval of the Hall majors who comprise the Execu­important issue on this campus the University's image of free Life Board. On March 21st, the Board of Trustees will meet and tive Committee of the Student consider whether such action should become University policy. Thefor the last three years, but no hall visiting hours for women, itSurvey Service feel that two following questions are in light of these considerations. 
one has ever obtained an accur­does show that the vast majorityimportant steps have been taken 
Reliability: 95 times out of 100 these findings will not var:v by

ate statement of student opinion of students (79%) do not feelto insure that the results of the 
more than 3.5% in either direction from a given result.

on the subject. And when finally that the image would be harmed. 
poll will be valid and reliaJ?le ­
Total number of respondents: 190

asked, how did students res­Of greater importance is the factand more trustworthy than past 
Total number of undergraduates living on campus: 5056

pond? First of all, they O'er­that 82% of those interviewedattempts to determine campus whelmingly feel that the .ndi-feel that Notre Dame's nationalopinion. First, this particular vidual·. residence halls, as image should not even be an
sample was chosen at random I. Would you prefer to see 
oppos.ed to the University important consideration in
from a list of all on-campus a) University established parietal hours? -3% 
should establish and enforce determiniiing parietal hour regu­
students. Thus, it was planned to b) hall established parietal hours -68%
lations.
parietal regulations. Only 3% of
differ from other polls (such as c) no parietal hour restric-tions at all .:._ 29% 
the sample preferred University
the recent Observer-Student Perhaps the answers to the 2. Would you prefer to see 
established parietal hours, while
Government poll) which are eighth question are most signif­a) University enforced parietal hours -6% 68% preferred hall established
completed on a voluntary basis, icant. The responses suggest the b) hall enforced parietal hours-94% 
parietals. And hall enforced
which greatly increases the interpretation that parietal 3. If parietal hours are UNIVERSITY established, would you feel it 
parietals were ·favored by 94%.
chances of a selective bias. hours, ostensibly a privilege, are your responsibility to help enforce them by reporting violators? 
These responses clearly substan­
Secondly, the number of people felt by the students to be a a) Yes, it's my responsibility, but I would not report violators. ­
tiate the students' desire for hall 
included in @Hr sample is com­right-a right they will exercise 42% 
autonomy in matters pertaining
puted on the basis of statistical even if "parietal privileges" are b) Yes, it's my responsibility, and I would report violators.-16% 
to their personal life at Notre
techniques which measure the taken away. Questions six and c) No, it's not my responsibility.-42'~ 
Dame.

degree to which the results are seven, however, gi\o ~ a better 4. If parietal hours are HALL established, would you feel it your
The percentage of students
representative of the larger body perspective to this Jnclusion. responsibility to help enforce them by reporting violators? 
who felt it was their responsi­
which is being sampled. Accord­While 77% of the Notre Dame a) Yes, it's my responsibility, but I would not report violators.­
bility to help enforce parietal
ing to sampling statistics, 95 students will bring women into 46% 
hours increased from 58% under
times out of I 00 these· findings their rooms even if no parietal b) Yes, it's my responsibility, and I would report violators. -29% 
a University established system
on parietal hours, based on hours are allowed, 73% of them c) No, it's not my responsibility.-25% 
to 75% under an individual hall
information from 190 students, will abide by the hours if the 5. Do you adhere to the present parietal hour regulations in your
system . .In addition, while most
will not vary by more than 3.5% parietals are hall established, hut hall? 
students will not report violators
in either direction from a given only 45% if they are University a) Yes-56% 
under any system, almost twice
result. Since most of the results established. b) No-44% 
as many students (29% vs. 16%)
are so clear cut, we feel quite This survey makes clear what 6. If parietal hours are UNIVERSITY established, would you adhereindicated that they would turn
certain that this survey has many people have long been to them'!
in violators if the halls admin­
accurately measured on-campus saying. Notre Dame students do a) Yes-45%istered parietal hours. This
student opinion on the questions not feel that the University b) No -· 54%suggests that students feel a 
should regulate their private lives 
raised. It is not size which c) No reply -1%
much greater commitment to 
and, in the case of parietal
determines representativeness, 7. If parietal hours are HALL established, would you adhere to
rules directly determined and 
lmurs, will act on this belief.
but the manner in which the them?
administered by themselves than 
Most students want parietal
sample is chosen. For example,· a) Yes-73%
to regulations which are Uni­
hours to be hall established and
the uncanny accuracy of pre­h) No-26%
versity-wide in scope and en­
enforced, and if they are will
national election polling is due c) No reply-1%
forcement. 

adhere to the rules.
to the use of the random 8. If parietal· privileges were taken away, .would you still bring girls 
Question five, indicating that 
into your room? a) Yes-77% b) No-23%

Letters to the editor 
OPEN LETTER TO ALL been violated by the "ad-men CAMPUS GROUPS AND of the various campus groups. ORGANIZATIONS: Based on the perhaps naive 
Some time ago (9/23/69) the belief that these violations are Howard Hall Council passed a due to an ·ignorance of the resolution to the effect that the 
existence of this resolution, I posting of literature or advertise­
have taken this opporunity to 
ments on surfaces other than inform the interested parties specifically designated bulletin that there is such a resolution boards (i.e. on doors, walls, or 
and, if I may mention and stress floors) was to be henceforward 
one further point, this resolution prohibited. As a concerned 
is being enforced by some citizen of Howard Hall, I feel it 
members of the hall to the point my duty to register my. 
that illegally posted matter is disappointment at the irrespon­
being torn down and disposedsible manner in which the 
of. I should like to end with a above-mentioned resolution has 
sincere request--"Ad-men"-save 9. Do you think that the University's national image would be harmed by having no parietal hour restrictions'!
yourselves and us much fruitless 
a)Yes-21%

labor by posting your material 
b) No-79%

only in the proper places in 10. Do you feel that the University's national image should he an
Howard Hall--please. Thank 
important consideration in determining parietal hour regulations?

you. 
a) Yes-18% 

a resident of Howard h) No 82% 
Business Mgr.: Bruce Rieck 
The opinions expressed in the Ad. Mgr.: Bruce Barker Night Editor: Dave Bach and 
editorials, news analyses, and col­

News Editor: Glen Corso John Knorr umns of THE OBSERVER are Layout Design: Mary Chris Morrison 
SMC News Editor: Prue Wear solely those of the authors and Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Layout: Ann Conway, Patty Lips­editors of THE OBSERVER and 
Ann Conway, Jeanne Sweeney comb, Jeanne Sweeney. Ann do not necessarily reflect the 
Therese Darin

Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin views of St. Mary's College, the Features Editor: Dave Stauffer Headlines:Jim Graif, Tom Law 
University of Notre Dame, their Photography Editor: Mike Murphy administration, faculty, or stu­Ad Layout: Jim Flanagan 
dent bodies. 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
SSS uses new techniques in polls 
by Gary Gereffi 

sampling technique. With this
Director of the Student Survey a little over half (56%) of the 
procedure, 1000 individuals 
students adhere to present
To paraphrase Mark Twain, chosen from 60 million total 
parietal hour regulations, needs 
everybody talks about dialogue voters will give a result within 
some qualifying remarks, for this 
but nobody ever does anything 1.58% of the correct answer. 
figure may be misleadingly high. 
about it. In the hope of The Student Survey Service 
Some persons might be hesitant 
establishing this much over­welc.omes suggestions for future 
to admit to being a "parietals
worked word upon a firmer basis polls. The only requirement is 
iconoclast" to the unknown 
than has been done in the past, that they be of interest to the 
person asking the question. It is 
the Notre Dame chapter of the campus as a whole. 
also quite possible that many
national sociological honor fra­
Notre Dame students rarely, if
EVALUATION

ternity, Alpha Kappa Delta, has 
ever, use parietal hours. Thus,
recently instituted a student The results of this study are 
the indicated percentage of cur­
organization .to accurately deter­to an ex tent self-evident. We 
rent violators could be too low.
mine Notre Dame opinion on feel, however, that the duty of 
The questions dealing with 
'. 1-·------­
\. ,.,,\ ...,.. ,.. ,.•' .. 
-.;· 
~,·,l 

TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 1970 PAGE 5
THE O&rERfJER. 
-------~ ·~---------­
Michelangelo Antonioni: Rebellious artist 

h;onoclastic, stubborn and arrogant are words often used to describe the controversial Italian director Michelang­elo Antonioni. But they are always followed by the accolades artist and genius. Worshipped by young people around the world, lamented by produc­ers, Antonioni has, i11 just a decade, created a new language of the cinema. 
Born in Ferrara, an ancient city in northern Italy, in 1912, his favorite hobbies as a child were drawing, painting and building architectural models. This 
"T1e "vvagnificent 7", a soul-rock music group composed of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, won the pop division of the Villanova University Intercollegiate Music Festival last Friday and Saturday. 
The Villanova Festival is one of six regional festivals. By winning ut Villanova the "7" moves on to the national finals in St. Louis, August 13-1 5, where they will compete against the winners of festivals at the universities of Colorado, Texas, South Florida, Southern Illinois and San Diego State College. 
hve of the group arc members both of Notre Dame's Marching Band and of its Concert Bantl; together the members of the group play a total of 17 instruments. 
The  "7"  has  (what  else?)  eight  
members:  seven  Notre  Dame  under­ 
graduates  and  an  Aretl1a  Franklin-style  

vocalist from St. Mary's. The Notre Dame 
Indians, JaneFonda attempt take -over 
SI·~ATTLt: (UPI) About 30 persons were arrested Sunday when a hand of nearly I00 Indians, joined hy pale faced actress Jane Fonda. am hushed the Army tn an attl'lllPt to take over lurt Lawton for a native cultural n•ntn. 
The group also included (;ral·e Thorpe, daughter of the famous Indian athlete, Jim Thorpe. 
The Indians "attacked" the fort at main gates, set up diversionary actions, scakd bluffs and fences and managed to put up a teepee in a small dearing in some woods on I he post. 
Military policemen arrested the Indians who sci up camp at the teepee. The Indians wore headbands and beads and carried sleeping bags and cooking utensils. 
Later Sunday, 13 Indians drove onto h>rt Lewis near Tacoma to the south of early inclination for the visual points towards his later preoccupation with decor, landscape and color, elements as important to his films as characters, dialogue and plot. 
As a student at Bologna University, he became interested in the theatre, found­inr an amateur theatrical group and v iiting and directing his own plays. After this first taste of directing, he was never to lose his preference for it, despite occasional moves into other fields. While still at college, he wrote reviews, short 
students are John M. Buchanan, Jr., a junior biology major from Washington, D.C., who sings lead, plays organ and trombone, and is the leader of the group; Brian A. Duncan, a junior government major from Atco, N.J., who sings lead and plays alto and tenor saxophone:, Harry L. Irvine, a senior English major from Valley Stream, N.Y., who sings and plays trumpet; Oran R. Johnson ("O.J."), a junior music major from Washington, D.C., who sings lead and plays bass; Jack 
M. Leo, a senior aerospace engineering major from Niagara Falls, N.Y., who plays alto and tenor sax and also sings; Patrick W. Lyons, a sophomore aerospace engineering major from Manhasset, N.Y., who plays guitar and sings; and Peter F. Szujewski, a junior pre-medical student from Morgan Park, Illinois, who plays drums. From St. Mary's is Loretta M. Johnson, a sophomore English major from Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 
The group had entered the compel ition by submitting a tape of its music. From more than I500 entries judges selected 85 pop and folk acts to perform at the regionals among them "The Magnifi­cent 7". Then, last weekcn;l, the hand competed against groups from Brown, North Carolina State, Penn State, Prince­ton, Washington and Lee, and other schools, and was one of four selected to mow from the semi-finals into the finals, Saturday night. Then they won that.. 
For winning the Villanova festival the "7" will he flown to the national finals by the IMF's sponsor, Budweiser. But gclt ing to the regional was something else again. According to Mrs. Joyce Bizot, the group's managt•r. the "7" could not have got ten to Villanova without the assistance of a number of people, including Rev. Theodore Jleshurgh, CSC, Rev. McGrath, Dean hcdcrkk Crosson, Rev. Carl llager, . CSC, Rev. Joseph Hoffman, CSC', Mr. Richard Conklin and SBVP J.'red Dedrick. 
stories and essays for Ferrara's news­paper, "II Carriere Padano," eventually becoming its hard-to-please film critic. 
Antonioni came to Rome in 1939 and immediately stepped into the world of the avant-grade. He wrote for "Cinema," an esoteric film magazine published by Mussolini's son, Vittorio, until his scath­ing denunciations of the films of the day brought about his dismissal. 
Eventually he entered the Experiment­al Film Center, a state school for actors and directors. lie left after only three months, earning his diploma by shooting the most remarkable scene ever done by a student at the center. The story of a woman coming tL' another to reclaim some compromising le~ters for which she had paid blackmail, it employed one actress for both roles. It appears to be one long seamless take, the camera going from one woman to another. How did he do it? To this day, no one knows. 
Shortly  thereafter he joined  Roberto  
Rossellini  and  several  other  writers  in  
preparing  the  screenplay  of  an  I tali an  

wartime picture, "Un Pilota Ritorna" (A Pilot Returns), produced in 1942. More 
"L'Amorosa Menzogna" (True Confess­ions), and "Superstizione" (Superstition). 
Finally, in 1950 at the age of 38, Antonioni directed his first feature, "Cronaca di un Amore" (Chronide of a Love). It dido't make any money and, indeed, was scarcely shown, but it marked him as a director of unmistakable talent and, years later, was called "The 
A.B.C. of Modern Cinema" by French critic Pierre Billard. 
A'.tonioni's next film, "I Vinti" (The Vanquished), a three-part study of post-war youth and its disillusionment and amorality set in London, Paris and Rome, brought him into sharp conllict with local authorities who saw his dl'piction of their youth as propagandistic and unfair to their country's im:;ge. Thi~ same attitude turned up twenty years later; in the United States when he came to make "Zabriskie Point." 
Although firmly established in the trade as a rebel by this time, he still managed to persuade producers to hack him and in fairly rapid succession followed "La Signora Senza Camelic" (Woman Without a Future), "Le Amiche" 

~creenplays followed before he went to~ (The Girlfriends), and "II Grido" (The 
France to work with Marcel Carne on "Visitors of the Night." Upon its completion he received a grant from the state documentary monopoly, Luce, to do a reportage on the life of the fishermen on the Po River, "Gente del Po" (People of the Po). Unfortunately, it was never finished. The war overtook Italy and Antonioni had to return to Rome. The footage was found in Venice in 1947, badly damaged by dampness. What could he salvaged was considered by he-seeing critics to be a turning point in :ummaking, almost as important as Rossellini's "Open City." 
During the war, the Italian film industry fell apart and Antonioni sup­ported himself by translating modern French works into Italian. He became involved in underground activity and twice barely missed being arrested by the Germans. 
After Rome was liberated, Antonioni continued to write while waiting for the chance to make a film. A few shorts fell his way, three considered masterpieces: "Nettezza Urbana" (Street Cleaners), Cry). 
The film that finally established Anlonioni as one of the great modern directors was "L'Avventura" (The Adven­ture). Although it nearly started a riot when it was shown at the Cannes Film Festival in I 961, today it is considered a masterwork. It was followed by "La Notte" (The Night), "L'Eclisse" (The Eclipse), "Red Desert" and "Bk.v-Up," the latter two marking Antonioni's first usc of color. 
Antonioni speaks of his film direction as "composing with materials." He collaborates on all of his screenplays, supervises every aspect of the production down to the most minute detail and personally undertakes the editing of each film. 
His films have frcquently contrasted the ageless world of beauty with the vulgar world of commerce and industry; the peace and dignity of nature with the chaos of cities. In his latest picture, "Zabriskie Point," set in Los Angeles and the American West, he has found the perfect setting. 


"The Magnificent 7" was organized in
Seattle. They wen: taken by MPs to the 
the Spring of 1968, ·and since that time Winner of the pop division of the I Oth annual Villanova University
provost marshall's office and given letters 
has performed at dozens of dances and Intercollegiate Music Festival last Friday and Saturday was "The Magnificent 7," a
of expulsion. 
parties on campus and throughout the pop gro••P comprised of seven University of Notre Dame students and a female
The only violence reported a1 Fort 
South Bend area. In addition they have vocalist from St. Mary's College. 
Lawton was when an Indian youth was 
travelled to Chicago, Dallas, and Washing­
shoved up against a desk in an office. 
Kneeling are Jack M. Leo, left, and John M. Buchanan, the group's leader. The
ton, D.C. for engagements. They played
The Indians were placed in cells hut 
middle row, from the left, are Loretta M. Johnson, Peter I. Szujewski, and Harry L.
for the last Iwo Notre Dame Home­
were to he escorted later to the post gate 
Irvine, and in the back row, from the left, are Oran R. Johnson, Patrick W. Lyons,
comings: in 1968 opposite Lcs and Larry
with ll'l tcrs of expulsion from the post, 
Elgart, in 1969 with the New Colony Six. and Brian A. Duncan.
the Army said. 
PAGE 6 
7118 
Supporters oppose Forum 
I 
I I 
I I 
I I 
~ ~­
I I 
~ 
(Continued from page 3) 
Buz Craven from St. Edward's, 
along with Hall Presidents Mike 
Nevins from Cavanaugh, and 
Buzzy Rice from Zahm, all 
voiced their encouragement of 
the Senate, and their disapproval 
of the Student Forum. 
Craven explained that the 
Student Forum would levy an 
inordinate work load upon the 
Hall President, and would "keep 
them absent from the hall, 
possibly as many as three nights 
a week with various conferences, 
research, and meetings. 
Craven further noted that the 
Student Forum, by merging the 
duties of Hall President and 
Senator into a single person, 
would largely keep the hall 
president from fulfilling his 
primary role. 
Mateja argued that the Stu­dent Forum would reduce repre­sentation in that it would provide for only one representa­tive from each hall. 
"By having_ one person repre­sent 90 students in Carroll, while another person attempts to re­present 500 students in Grace restricts the voice of many students," Mateja concluded. 
Both Mateja and Craven em­phasized that Student Govern­ment should work to change attitudes, not tinker with struc­tures, and stressed the need for student opinion to be channelled through both the Hall President and the Senator. 
Nevens and Rice issued state­ments pointing out that they felt that the combinations of the jobs of Hall President and Senator would take too much 
The most significant outcome of this afternoon's meeting of the SLC was the council's adoption of the Student Resi­dence Director's Report. A len­gthy and thorough report deal­ing with Hall Life Legislation, it 
time away from working on hall issues that the Senate considers 
problems. like academic reform, coeduca­
Rice summed up their senti­tion, and security are important, 
ments in stating that: "I truly I don't feel that the Hall 
feel that combining the job of President can spend time doing 
Hall President and Senator will research on those matters and 
detract from the Hall President's still build a viable hall commun­
being able to concentrate on hall ity. There is a definite need for 
problems. Although the campus two separate bodies. 
Dislike poll influence 
(Continued from page 3) 
Peterson said that while Thrasher and Murray have dis­played "gentlemanliness" in their relationship with him he felt that "he (Thrasher) is not capable of a hard line stance in dealing with the administration in the event it is called for." 
The junior candidate added that he believed tha unfair practices were being used in campaign procedure. When asked to elaborate Peterson said that he would not repeat "mud­slinging rumors'; but that what he has heard concerning the situation dealt with hall mana­gers rather then the candidates themselves. 
Peterson also gave his views on minority recruitment. Seeing the establishment of Notre Dame as a place where the minority recruit wants to come as the primary concern in the problem, he said that the Univer­sity should not settle for "token gestures." Peterson expressed the hope that besides the groups readily mentioned in the recruit­ment program that an added emphasis· would be placed on Protestant public high school students in order to give Notre Dame a greater "variety of opinion and diversity of back­ground." 
Peterson aired his outlook on his chances in the rapidly ending election: "Since we expect to gain the vote of many who didn't have the intention of voting, a lot will depend on the turnout. The greater the turnout the better our chances." 
SBP Candidate Tom Thrasher 

Krashna headquarters displeased Doesn't like debate presentation 
(Continued from page 3) 
candidates agreed that the man­ner in which the challenge wascould sit down and talk it out offered could make them appearbefore you go ahead and an­to be avoiding the debate andnounce that that's your chall­thus hurt their image. "I justenge to a debate." Neither resent the whole way it wasKrashna nor Winings had heard presented," concluded Winings.

of the debate until late Sunday night. According to Winings, he One of the less heavily touch­and Krashna are scheduled to ed topics, but of equal impor­
·have an interview with WSND at tance t9 the caJJdidates, was the the time of the proposed debate. allegation that there was "arm Krashna added that he would twisting" by the student govern­like some debate terms to be his ment in the voting concering the own and listed a switch of the concentration of Black students suggested site from Cavanaugh in certain residence halls. "We Hall to Alumni Hall. Both were greatly upset over the 
SLC adopts one report then stagnates 
.~:____________________:______________,views 0f the majority of the 
council members. Fr. Whelan expressed his desire that the council adopt his report. Defen­ders of this alternative reasoned that Fr. Whelan, at request of
if you want a 
the SLC had gone to great effort to produce this report. Further, to submit it as anything less than
summer job, call 
the council's own would reduce its impact upon the Board of
Manpower®. 
Trustees. Following a number of textual revisions and the debate, the report was adopted by a 17-5 vote.
• The pay is good. 
Amidst proposals of minor 
• You can work when you please. 
amendments, Fr. James Riehle suggested deleting an entire section of the report, treating the judicial boards. He consider­ed this section to exceed the 
• The experience will help you later on. 
That sound you hear is Opportunity, knocking. 
was the subject of lengthy draftsman, Fr. Edgar Whelan; or debate. This report is to be whether it should be considered submitted to the Board of the product of the entire coun­Trustees at their next meeting. cil. The proponents against The point in question was adoption reasoned that much of whether it should be offered the material and many of the merely as the personal labor of a conclusions did not reflect the defined realm of Fr. Whelan's report. To do so would have meant deleting about a quarter of the entire report. After an enthusiastic debate, primarily between Riehle and Whelart, the motion to strike the proposed section was soundly defeated. 
Running short on time, as usual, the council quickly dis­missed a second report treating drinking, parietal hours, and hall life submitted by the Hall Presidents Council. It was appen­ded to Fr. Whelan's report, to be accompanied by a written ex­planation. 
In the waning moments of the meeting SBP Phil McKenna an­noyed by the slow pace of the SLC proposed convening the body twice weekly. Member's schedules caused this idea to be eliminated. Frc Maurice Amen concurred with McKenna re­marking that the SLC had a massive inability to discipline itself. 
allegations. This is simply un­true," said Winings. He went on to say that the insinuation was "unfounded" and that the recent vote in Alumni Hall favored the continuation of the concentration. The vote was 13 for and none against with two abstentions. 
When asked about recent statements concering protests, Krashna · said that those who heard him may have missed the essence of his comments. He clarified them as such, "I believe that in a community there is often a need for demonstrations which bring about an awareness of the issues. The basic thing is the need to stimulate com­munication. by approaching that atmosphere, those basic environ­mental changes that have to be made to stimulate this ·free communication." Krashna be­lieves that the IS-minute rule is an "unnecessary force" that 
needs to be "revamped." His basic disagreement with the rule is that it is "against any type of community because it is an unnecessary force as instituted by· one man." As its substitute, Krashna would like to see a voluntary dismissal of "all activi­ties" at the time of confront­ation. Both parties would then sit down and face the issues. 
Winings said that he and Krashna would not run their administration on demonstra­tions, but if the student body wanted someting, they would "be behind it l 00%." Krashna and Winings do not plan to let their term in office become one known for mediation between the administration and the stu­dents. 

If you're a guy, you might want factory or ware­house work-indoors or out. We've got both ... and both can help you build up your experience ... and your bankroll. But we can't call you ..• 
THE OBSERVER NEEDS 
so call us. Knock knock knock. 
In 400 offices throughout the United States Manpower specializes in finding the right peo­
A SECRETARY.

ple to do the temporary jobs that have to be done. We've been at it for 21 years, so we know what you're looking for. Why not deal with the best. When you're home on vacation come on in. 
Knock knock knock knock. 
Pay and ho1.1rs to be discussed 
MANPEDWER® 
TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES 
Cal1 7471 or write THE OBSERVER 
An Equal Opportunlly Employer 
Box 11 

L---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 1970 

PAGE 7 
Parking lot security improvements initiated 
Three major immediate im­provements in campus security were discussed by Dean of Students Father Riehle in an interview with tl_1e Observer yesterday. 
Sitting in his office with a map of the university's grounds in front of him, Father Riehle explained in detail the plan to update the security of the parking lots. 
"Three things have been im­proved. A cyclone fence will be put around D-1 parking lot. In fact, I think the surveyors were already out there last Friday," he said. 
The surrounding fence will have only two gates. One gate will close at 11 p.m. while the other gate will be open all the time, Riehle said. With only one entrance, security surveillance will be much easier. 
Permanent lights on the stad­ium shining out on C-3 parking lot and temporary lights around 
"I hope certainly by Easter time that the three jobs will be done," Riehle noted. 
The lights are temporary in C-2 because an Engineering Building may be in the plans for that site in the future, he said. 
Hopefully, the lights will deter most illegal activities. Lot C-3 has been the scene of much vandalism. Father Riehle noted too that "We have had a couple 
C-2 parking lot will be installed . of armed robberies in there." as soon as they can get a Father Riehle, concerning the contractor and he can get his suggestion from the SLC, stated men out here, Riehle explained. that an "outside agency will not 
HPC reveals An Tostal plans 
The pmposed activities for the upcoming An Tostal festival were revealed last night at a meeting of the Hall Presidents Council by Ron Mastriana. Exe­cutive Coordinator of the HPC. According to Mastriana, the 
traditional Irish festival is receiv­
ing notable acclaim overseas in 
the manner of an endorsement 
from the Mayor of Dublin and a 
write-up by the Scotish news­
paper, The Glasgow Sun Post. 
Mastriana said this year's 
festival would be celebrated on 
Thursday, Friday and Saturday, 
April f3-2S. He said the event 
would be organized in a manner 
similar to the one used last year, 
with the activities scheduled for. 
the afternoon and evening of 
each day. 
The festival is tentatively 
scheduled to be opened on 
Thursday afternoon with a bas­
ketball game between the HPC 
and a team of St. Mary's cagers, 
said Mastriana. Later in the 
afternoon, he said, a play will be 
performed on an outdoor stage. 
Thursday night's feature will 
be an outdoor concert given by 
either The Hartford Convention 
or Smoke. The concert, Mastri­
ana said, will be surrounded by a 
number of minor events includ­
ing: "jail," a game in which a 
person is imprisoned if someone 
pro-offers cash to have him 
locked up; "dunk," a familiar 
game in which persons are 
submerged in water when· a 
pitched baseball strikes a target; 
and "slave," a game in which 
female volunteers are auctioned 
off to the highest bidder. Referr­
ing to the "slave" auction 
Mastriana said, "It sounds pretty 
gross, but it went over big last 
year." 
Friday's activities, said Mastri­
ana, may well include a pig 
roast, a cow milking contest, and 
a greased pig chase. A BYO 
party is planned for the evening 
and the HPC is investigating the 
possibility of holding it Viking 
style in the South Dining Hall. 
Mastriana said Saturday's events will include two Highland Games which he learned from a Scotish friend. One, called "throwing the caber," consists of an individual propelling a 20 foot pole end over end with his two hands cupped in front of him. The other, Mastriana ex­plained, called "putting the stone," is a competitive event in which contestants see how far they can hurl a large stone. Other events Saturday will be a noon picnic, a pie eating contest, and possibly a piano smashing competition. 
Saturday night's party at the Armory, said Mastriana, will conclude the An Tostal celebra-
With the second semester comes plans for spring and summer marriages. On four Sundays, March 15th & 22nd and April 12th & 19th, Notre Dame and St. Mary's will hold its 1970 Pre-Cana, Marriage preparation talks for those plan­ning marriage in the near future. 
Lecture on Black Capitalism 
Ronald A. Grzywinski, a lead­ing practical expert on black capitalism, will speak at 8 pm Tuesday ~(March I0) in· the Library Auditorium. 
Grzywinski is a former presi­dent and vice-<:hairman of the Hyde Park and Trust Company of Chicago, and was instrument­al in the establishment of an Urban Development Division, which offered a comprehensive program of credit and counseling to black entrepreneurs and com­munity organizations. His lec­ture is sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission's Urban Studies Program, and the Adlai Stevenson Institute of International Studies. 
The Loyola University grad­uate is a member of the Economic Advisory Board of the Woodlawn Organization. 
The discussions on March I Sth and April 12th will be held in Carroll Hall of the Madelava c I a s s r o o m building at St. Mary's, and those discussions on March 22nd and April 19th will be held in the Memorial Library Auditorium at Notre Dame. All four sessions will begin at 8:00 
p.m. It is not necessary that both members of a couple attend the Conference if circum­
. stances, such as distance, prevent this, but in order to fulfill one's requirement, he or she must attend all four s.essions. 
Among the people who will be speaking are Dr. ,and Mrs. 
tion. He said one dollar will buy 
. 10 beers for an individual. This policy is designed to attract students to the party, Mastriana adde<t, and consequently the HPC will lose money. 
Last night's meeting ended after the hall presidents gave a tentative summary of the room selection situation to Fr. Edgar Whelan. 
be brought in at this time" to suggest improvements for securi­ty. Mr.· Paul Powell from the Paul Powell Agency offered his services for about $6,000, Riehle said. 
"It was my recommendation th~t we not hire this man. Mr. Pears, when he was first hired, worked with this man for two weeks and has completely adapt­ed his system to Notre Dame." Mr. Powell was then Director of Security at Yale, Riehle explain­ed. 
Riehle said that Powell com­mented on Notre Dame's securi­ty as being in "pretty good shape compared with other uni­versities, and really far ahead of most of them that he had seen." 
Powell did, however, recom­
mend improvements, "many 
along the lines of better equip­
ment and better personnel," 
according to Riehle. 
Instead of using the services 
of the Powell Agency, Riehle 
plans information trips to other 
uniuersities and the hiring of a permanent security investigator. 
"Mr. Pears and myself are going to Duke University and probably another university to look at their security systems within the next couple of weeks," Riehle said. 
The full-time investigator, whose job will be to follow up all crimes on campus, is now being sought by Mr. Pears. Riehle said the hiring of this man has been approved by the Vice President of Student Af­fairs for next year's budget. 
"For these reasons I recom­mend now and go ahead and make the improvements that we absolutely feel are necessary," Riehle stated, "and continue at the same time to evaluate the 
, security department. To look at it to see what can be done to improve personnel, to train them, etc. And if it still doesn't come up to what the community feels it should be, why then we could always go ahead and hire Mr. Powell to come in." 

Security reports series of thefts 
There was a series of watches and billfolds being stolen recent­ly from student's rooms while 
they are Security interview "It's my doing it." 
Three occurred 
asleep, Arthur Pears, 
Director said in an yesterday. He saw guess that one guy's 
of these incidents in Dillon Hall on 
Friday, March 6. One billfold, containing $1 S to $20, was stolen from a room while the victim's roommate slept. An­other sound sleeper suffered the loss of a wallet containing $18 plus a wristwatch. Another per­son in Dillon lost his cigarette lighter. 
A similar incident occurred in Pangborn Hall on Sunday at 
Pre -Cana talks to start soon 
D'Antonio, who will speak on April 12th. In addition, Pro­fessor Houck and his wife will open the Conference on March ISth at St. Mary's. Sign-ups for these marriage talks will be held Tuesday and Wednesday, March lOth and 
5:55 a.m., two students found a person in their room. This intruder claimed that he was looking for another student, and the students accepted his story. Later they found that their billfolds were missing. Campus Security claims to have a de­scription of the suspect thief but Pears declined to release it. 
On the night of Sunday, 
March 8, someone attempted to 
break into the office of The 
Academic Commission in La­
Fortune Center. Entry was 
evidently not accomplished, and 
nothing was found missing from 
the office. Pears felt it was 
curious that entrance was not 
attempted into any of the other 
offices in LaFortune Center. 
There were a few cases of 

larceny and vandalism in the 
parking lots during the weekend. 
A tape player was stolen from a 

~car in the D-2 parking lot. Two convertibles, one in the D-1 and the other in the D-2 parking lot, admitted that they had inte~ded 
to steal a battery. Charges were 
not pressed however. 
Pears had praise for the newly 
formed student patrol in the 
parking lots, "I think that they are doing really well. There hav~ been several problems that have arisen. . .In general, we are pleased with their performance. It is hard to measure prevention, but it is obvious that vandalism in the parking lots has been reduced." 
Seveml vending machines have been broken into recently, A cigarette machine was broken into in Lyons Hall, and cigarettes were removed. An­other cigarette machine was . vandalized in the Computer Center. A candy machine was broken into in the Engineering Building. 
Pears also revealed that he had a report of a golf cart being stolen from Flanner Hall on March 8. 

II th in the Notre Dame dining ,__in_:g::_._U_n~d~er_,_:q:,_u~e_st:;i..:.o,::.:n;::in~g~,__:t:.:.h~c.J.....y+-or=....,'l:.:;lt~..::.9~5~24:,:0~---------.1­
halls during lunch and dinner. Sign-ups at St. Mary's will also be Tuesday and Wednesday by the mail boxes in Holy Cross 
Hall between S-7 p.m. There is a $1.00 registration fee. Further information may be obtained at the sign-ups or by calling Chris Lovin~ at 1341. 
Belle de Jour showing cancelled 
Another mixup last evening caused the cancellation of the two showings of Belle de Jour. The mixup occured, according to Sophomore Literary Festival Chairman Bob Hall when the group that handles the shipping and receiving of films picked up the film too early from the security office where it was being held. When Hall went to pick up the film it was gone and therefore the show had to be cancelled. 
Hall stated, "I'd like to apologize to the patrons and people who were waiting for the first showing. I'd also like to say that the misunderstanding did not come from negligence on the part of security or the SLF committee." 
When asked if the movie would be rescheduled Hall said that it dep!:nded in getting an appropriate date at Washington Hall, but said he did hope to show it later in the spring. 
The next movie scheduled is 
suffered remarkably similar+----------------,
JOBS! JOBS! and more J.OBSI Stu 

damages. In identical ways, the dents, Teachers. stateside and lntet' lower section of the back win-national Jobs. Recreational Jobs
Year-round Jobs; Summer Jobs. AIdow was broken out. Two occupations and trades. Enjoy a vaca nonstudents were apprehended tlon while you earn. Hurry! The bel in the D-1 lot yesterday morn-jobs are taken early. Write: ".lOBS" 
~.0. Box 475, Dept. CP 16;1-1, Lodl 
·-· 
STUDENT AUTO FINANCE PI.AN 
No payments for ninety days! New or used cars 
1fi 
to quai zed graduating seniors. Lower payments available for first 1/3 of contract with nominal down payments. For more exact information, contact-
JORDAN FORD 
609 E.)efferson Mishawaka, Indiana 
PhonP 259-19R1 
Applications now being alTepted for ~taH positions of the 
SCIENCE QUARTERLY 
Positions open to students of ALL classes. 
Send or bring vitae to: 
SCIENCE QUARTERLY ROOM 248 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL 

Taming of the Shrew on April 7. L---------------------------....J 
PAGE 8 
Alumni interhall champions, Team balance provides win margin 
by Jack Schaefer throughout Stanford's fine sea-Bauer. OBSERVER Sports Writer son. 
Alumm Hall's Interhall bas­The 1970 Champs, Alumni, Sophomore Bob (he prefers ketball team won the 1970 was captained by Bob Singleton you call him "Bowie" or Mr. campvs championship with a who did a great job with his Commissioner) Webb was in solid .SSI-45 victory over Stan­bench. Throughout the season charge of this year's league. He ford .. The two 'teams split the Alumni was noted as a second did what must be termed an first two games in the best of half team; this was due to the excellent job in. keeping the three playoff. Alumni held a one way in which the entire team league, with its over fifty teams, point lead, 13-12 at the end of was utilized. It seemed as though running smoothly. He dealt with the first quarter. Alumni was always fresh, and in controversies in a manner in 
However, in the second period most cases they were. which his idol, NBA Commis­Craig Stark and Dale Mitchell The 1970 lnterhall Champs: sioner Walter Kennedy, would went to work as Alumni opened Captain Bob Singleton, Craig have been proud. When asked if a nine point halftime lead, Stark, Don Reid, Chuck Nightin­he had anything to say about the 29-20. Chuck Nightinglae ar1d gale, Dale Mitchell, Jack Wiet­1970 season Mr. Webb replied, Mitchell found that quick passes hoff, Mike Erspalmer, Mike "Plenty, but you wouldn't be underneath to Stark and Bob Murphy, John Tietjen, and Brad able to print anv of it." Singleton were all that were needed to break Stanford's back. 
Ind. tourney continues 
Stark's rebounding was just too 
much for Stanford to contend INDIANAPOLIS (UPI) -A ~tart Milltown in the second with. brand new "Fieldhouse Four" afternoon game -after No. 9 By the end of the third member will emerge Saturday host Evansville Memorial opens quarter Alumni had the game from the Southern semi-state of the session against Loogootee. the Indiana high school basket-All four have fine records and 
safely under control with an 
eleven point lead which they ball tourney and unbeaten No.2 Milltown's sweep through the extended to fourteen as the Seymour is c~sidered the team Huntingburg regional district season came to a close. to beat. . gave the small town elite a 
Mike Monserez, Bill Etter, Trouble is, none of the three ·mighty shot in the arm. The Denis Garvey, Fred Swendsen, oth~r contenders is about to Millers, 21-4, represent the Tom O'Connor, Scott Andrews, throw fn the towel. smallest school for the second and captain Phil Calandra all Twenty-four game winner 'week in a row -just 97 
distinguished themselves Seymour meets Cinderella up-students.. . 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111•~ Memonal1s 23-2, LoogooteeI 22-3. Seymour has made it to Last weekend, Fred DeBoe, a junior from Hammond, Indiana, won; the.; semi-state title round three the 1970 Novice Golden Gloves Championship (165 lbs.) at Indiana-; times, losing each time. Memor­

polis. DeBoe disposed of John Bouldric of Manchester, Ohio with a1 ia1 has never made it that far and John Gallagher's six points early in the second half nullified the OU lst Round TKO. ::!! Loogootee and Milltown are first Bobcats' box-and-one zone, enabling the Irish to coast out to victory. time regional champs. 
NCAA's -heading for College Park 
North Carolina St 

* Santa Clara and U . of Pacific met last night on the coast to battle for the final playoff s pot. 

Notre Dame l !ll'lr..,nnuill.. Columbus, Mar. 12 Iowa  I  Columbus, Mar. 14  

Seattle, Mar. 12 Long Beach St. Utah St. Seattle, Mar. 12  Seattle, Mar. 14  










