

VOL. IV, NO. 73 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College-Community THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1970 
CYO -SLERT protest successful 
by Bill Carter  "death-machines"  and  de­ "legalize pot" button, began the  
A mock protest confrontation staged yesterday afternoon in the Huddle by members of the C.Y.O. and S.L.E.R.T. proved unexpectedly successful when the objects of the protest, the two shooting-game machines, were ordered removed from the  manding their removal, and the CYO's attempts to break up the demonstration in the cause of "American individual freedom and Holy Mother Church". The SLERT effort was headed by campus conservative leaders Mike Kelly and Chris Wolfe. As  protest by handcuffing himself to the periscope of the submar~ inc sinker game. Vice Chancellor Wolfe swung into an impromtu religious service labeled as a means of "drawing the Christian community closer to one another" by reading quotes from  
Huddle by manager Ernest Fero. The protest, part of a continu­ing joke being played by both groups in a reversal of their well known political positions, consisted of Slert's storming the games armed with signs and posters declaiming the games as  previously advertised, the SLERT forces appeared in the Huddle at noon yesterday, seven strong, fully equipped for their parody on liberally-oriented campus demonstrations. Slert Chancellor Kelly, wear­ing a paper crucifix and a  Chairman Mao. The confrontation began as eleven members of the CYO, headed by chairman Bernie Ryan and his aide John Zimmer­man, approached the Slert picket line and demanded the right to play the  

Coalition plans strategy for complicity activities 
Following Dedrick was John Jo Ann Mulert of the "Beaver
by Steve Lazar 
Wilson of the Students Against 55" talked on radical strategy 
The slalcgy for the upcoming Racism . He distributed posters ag~inst the corporations which ''Complidty Week" and concerning slain Black Power exploit the working class people. speeches by members of the member Fred !Iampton to re­She asserted that "Dow really "Beaver 55" and "Chicago 15" presentatives of each hall. has no right on this campus." 
were presented last night at a From Niewland the group of She said she rejected the meeting of the Coalition for about 50 CPA members moved Ghandian approach of non-vio­Political Action in Niewland to the ballroom of the student lent prote~t and felt a more center to hear addresses by two expressive form of action was
Science llall. 
radical activists. 
(continued on page 7)

The activities of the CPA dur­
ing "Complicity Week" will• cen­ter around Ihe 31 corpor actions conducting interviews in the Placement Bureau during the period from Feb. 16 to Feb. 26. According to John Williams, CPA member, an investigation by faculty and student re­searchers conducted over the semester break revealed that at least 17 of the 31 corporations studied were guilty of racial dis­crimination, discrimination a­gainst women, conflict of in­terest in defense contracts or 

other injustices. 
CPA members discuss plans for Complicity Week,. 
The results of these findings arc to he printed into hooklet form this weekend and sold to students at a "counter-re­
Student Art Festival cruiting" table just outside the Placement Bureau offices during "Complicity Week." 
to be staged byU A C 
Also scheduled for "Com­
by Anne Darin

pliaily Week" is an underground to audition or do maintenance film entitled "Wilmington" The University Arts Council is and layout work, should contact sponsoring a Student Arts Fes­Rob Barteletti, 148 Fal'ley Hall,
which will be shown on the 
tival to be held on March 1-7 in ext. 6730.
evening of Feb. 23. The film is 
the newly-formed University The University Arts Council
purported to deal with a "mil­
Arts Center. The Festival will had its eginnings early this
itary occupation" of the black 
feature evening programs of year when it was learned that
ghetto in Wilmington, Delaware, 
dance, music recitals, drama, cin­the Fieldhouse, now the Uni­
duri11g 1967. Wilmington is the 
ema, art displays and poetry. versity Arts Center was to be
site of the Dupont Corporation's 
The festival is being organized razed. The group, composed of
major production plant. 
by Rob Barteletti "to create an students and faculty actively in­Spock to speak atmosphere where students and volved in the arts on campus faculty can perform and partici­banded together and drew up
A final event surrounding 
pate, where art can become an plans to renovate the fieldhouse
"Complicity Week" was released 
integral part of the university at the cost of about $1.8 mil­
by Williams who noted that Dr. 
community." lion.
Spock will speak to the Notre 
Publicity chairman Maureen The group appealed for stu­
Dame community on Feb. 19. 
Meter commented, "So often dent support, and presented its Last night's meeting was o­students seem to expect things plans to the administration. Just pened by Chairman Fred to be brought in for entertain­before Thanksgiving a rally was 
Dedrick who expressed the hope held in the fieldhouse, which
ment. There is so much talent,

that Notre Dame students would 
however, right here on campus was attended by Father 
gel involved in the National Mor­
as evidenced at the Coffee House Hesburgh.There he promised to 
atorium ('ommittee's spring pro­
and in drama productions." delay the razing of the field­
test. lie revealed that the CPA 
"The interest shown in this house for six months, in order to 
was aligning itself with other 
festival," she continued, "will give the UAC time to raise the 
groups as well as the Moratorium 
serve as an indication as to money.
Committee. Among these are the 
whether the administration will This touched off intensive 
N.D. Students Against Racism 
Jet us keep the Fieldhouse. The fund raising efforts by the 
and a group known as the South 
festival is, therefore, being or­group, which are still going on,
Bend Power Structure. Dedrick 
ganized as a catalyst for the arts as well as beginning the reno­
also discussed the activities of a 
program." vation of the newly named Uni­
number of CPA committees. 
Students and faculty wishing versity Arts Center. 
"death-machines". The mild ruckus which followed consisted mainly of outbursts of cliched political rhetoric from both sides and the vain attempts of the CYO to reach the "wllf games" and pry Kelly loose from the periscope. Ryan tried several times to insert a dime in the machine and begin shooting at 
battleships  but  each  time  was  
repulsed.  
The  commotion  around  the'·  

game machines lasted about a half hour despite protests from the women working behind the counter that they were becom­ing nervous with all the noise. No effort was made to break up the protest and it was ended when CYO people withdrew. 
by Prudence Wear 
SMC News Editor 
Volunteer Services, Inc., sponsored a recruitment night for various Michiana area social organizations last night in the Saint Mary's Dining Hall. Nine­teen local groups sent represen­tatives to brief interested Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students on vital jobs they can perform for the community. 
According to Maureen Consi­dine, one of the directors of the Volunteer Services program, the majority of those wanting to volunteer have expressed a desire to work with "someone who is not in the 18 to 25 age bracket." 
Huddle Manager Fero reacted immediately. Disturbed by the fact that the trouble over the game machines was interfering with the business being conduc­ted with the lunch crowd, Fero decided to put an end to the problem by calling the company who distributes the machines and reque~ting that they be re­moved. The company sent a 
truck  out  immediately and the  
machines  were  out  by  two  
o'clock.  

Mr. Fero was not too troubled about havi.rtg the machines taken out since they had been due to be changed soon anyway, how­ever he did find the protest "very annoying". He did not see 
(continued on page 2) 

Therefore, many of the organiza­
tions  represented  offered  
chances  to  insturct  or  direct  
children.  

Among those needing volun­teers to aid with caring for children are Northern Indiana Children's Hospital, Big Bro­thers, the Cojncil for the Retard­ed, the Episcopal Day Care Cen­ter, the Neighborhood Study Help program, and the Upward Bound tutoring program. 
The Council for the Interna­tional Lay Apostolate (CILA) was also represented, with members outlining the summer projects that are offered. Cluney 
(continued on page 6) 




PAGE 2 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1970 
Students give c9mments on SLC-CIA ban 

classes were split in the same· different approach to the ques­in favor of the decision two
by Larry Pino general lines: the rights that the
general mimner. --. tion. He said that although the
Thirty-six students from the student possesses to be inter­preferred not to comment and 
Those who were opposed to SLC might have more of the
Notre Dame community were viewed by the organization of one hung-up. A senior who 
the Council's ban pointed out inside facts than are open to the
asked to give their opinions· on his choice and the right the CIA asked that his name not be 
about three ·reasons why the public, he doesn't see what mentioned said, "The CIA
the recent action of the Student has to i!}terview freely. 
steop should not have been standard could be used to quali­should not be allowed to recruit
Life Council, which decided not The latter argument was 
taken. Freshman Bill Kaufman fy or disqualify an organization.
to allow the CIA recruitment summed by by Larry Ptasinski a because of the anature of the commented, "Nobody is forcing Sophomore Bob Carlson stated Junior, who remarked: "Provid­organizaiton." When asked what
privelges on the Notre Dame the student to go see them that the CIA "is no different
Campus. The students were con­ed they -(CIA) remain within the the nature of the CIA was, he (CIA), they're (SLC) just taking than any other orgnaization" legal structure of our system, continued "an unjust involve­
tacted randomly by phone last away the rights of the students and should therefore be given they should be allowed to ment in war."
night. 
wh~ do want to be interviewed." the right to interview. remain on campus." Sophomore Mark O'Connell Sophomore Terry Krestes .• he most-representative seemed to be in agreement with The thirty-six students broke concurred that "it is the person's The belief then that the SLC opinion of this group came from the rationale presented by the down into solid areas -six in own business. We don't have the should not have banned the CIA Freshman Jeffrey Lobosky who Student Life Council. favor of the measure and thirty right to interfere with his free­from recruitment on campus commented, "It is up to the "If you want to pretend that who were opposed. ' dom of choice." prompted adherents to formu­individual to decide whether or you're running a free-discussion All four Dave Vecchi, a senior, used a late their arguments along two not he be interviewed. The CIA university, you have no business is only affording students an conceeding to a group that employment opportunity, not believes that free discussion is a forcing them to accept it." limiting factor to their opera­
Snellgrove resigns commission 
_Qf the six students who were tion," he said. 
because of lack of cooperation 
by Connie Byrne of_ lack of co-operation. Dea_nne was informed of the boutique by 
Republicans and SI.C
Last week junion Deanne sald of the Pubhc Relahons fliers slipped under their doors." Commission, "Everything we did
Snellgrove resigned her postion 
as Public Relations Commission-fell through. There was little Deanne said of SMC student
co-operation among the stu­

differ on controversy
government, "The people who
er of the Student Services Organ-dents. Even other SSO commis­
ization.She had been appointed are trying at St. Mary's aren't
sioners couldn't follow the rules.

after being interviewed by the effective in establishing a com­
They rearly gave the Public Re­

Student Executive Cabinet. As munity. The structure of student by Bill Carter felt his group's action was a
lations Commission enough

Commissioner it was her duty to government is bad and should be The College Republican Club necessary one, nevertheless.
notice of an activity to publicize

keep students informed of activi­changed." of Notre Dame last night passed "I don't know if it can go into
it well, if at all."

ties offered by SMC: dances, a ·motion declaring the club's University law, or not," Gaither
Another underlying reason for

concernts, plays and Student opposition to the recommenda­said. "But we want to be on
Deanne's resignation was the stu­Of the students Deanne said,
Union activities at ND. tion passed at last week's Stu­record as opposing it, and per­
dent reaction to, or lack of "They seem so concerned with
The basic reason for her re­dent Life Council meeting which haps lend our influence to its
reaction to, SSO publicity. the problems of the world that
signation concerned a problem would bar the use of campus defeat, if possible." 
"Within the first few weeks, they are afraid to associate with facilities to recruiters from the passed concerning improvementseveral of the activities calendars peers and try to relate to them." 
Central Intelligence Agency. in the University Placement Bur­
IT'S NOT JUST were destroyed. The making of Apathy towards what goes on at those calendars involved many, SMC is shown by seniors who The SLC motion came as part eau Office.
ANOTHER ­
amny hours." And there was think too much about merely of a list of recommendations The Republicans based their FRANCHISE getting out and not about Gaither said he realized the opposition on the conviction
almost no response to the Christ­

making some sort of contribu­motion passed by the SLC was a that campus facilities should be mas boutique offered as a service completely open to all legal org­
STEAK HOUSE 
tion." recommendation only, but heto the students. Every student anizations. The motion declared 
The B}ack Angus is the 
itself to be in "full accord with 
friendly home of fine Mid­
the position stated by Fr. Hes­
Slot machines evicted from Huddle 
western steak dinners broiled 
the; way its owners and origi­
(continued from page 1)

nators like them for their 
a great deal of the humor in the

own table. And with their 1 
joke the two groups were play­

own decor, carpets, comfort­
' ing with each other. 

able booths and chairs, and . 
"I suppose they say they did

pleasant music. And the 
if all in fun, but it isn't good for 

prices for juicy satisfying 
business anyway," Fero said.

steak dinm;rs broiled to your 
"People come in here because

order are only 99 cents to 
they want to eat in a quiet place,

$1.89. 
listen to some music and relax.

It's not a franchise; so 
They don't want a bunch of

there's nothing that can com­
roughnecks coming in and 

pare with the Black Angus 
causing a big commotion. No, I

anywhere. 
don't know what they were do­


ing it for and I don't give a darn. Those were perfectly innocent games, nothing wrong with them. I just can't believe college students would pull something as silly as this. This is small stuff, there are a lot of worse things going on around here than a couple of game machines." 
------· 
G.E. Stereo

STEAK HOUSE !. Coffee Table Type 
1516 N. Ironwood Dr., southeast ' of Convocation Center between ' $125.00 
South Bend Ave. and Edison Rd. 
Phone: 232-9775 between 10:00 a.m. & 2:00p.m. 

1-L.~e>""!!lt\ For Valentine's: 
sweetheart-
Remember her 
flowers. 

burgh, President of the Univer­sity, concerning the availabilitySlert leader Kelly said he was on staging a "legitimate" sit-in of campus facilities to all organi­pleased his group's efforts had demonstration today at 3 p.m. 
zations which observe the lawsbeen so quickly successful as he in the Huddle to protest the of our nation."
continued his role as radical on 
forced removal of the "war ma­
Republican Club Presidentthe left. When questioned as to c h i n e s ' . b y "dimestore John Gaither said the motionthe real purpose behind the pro­Ro bespierres." Slert promises to was inspired by the fear thattest and the role switch, Kelly be ready for the challenge. 
such a proposal if successfulsaid it was an idea that sprung When informed of the contin­could "set a dangerous prece­up almost spontaneously and uation of the coin-operated dent. We think the opportunitywas immediately appealing to controversy, Mr. Fero was more to be interviewed by any legal
both groups. than a little chagrined. He has organization should not be de­"I think it's the most refresh­already planned on replacing the nied to any student who wantsing thing that's happened on it. We make no value judgmentcampus all year," Kelly said. "It shooting games with a new on the CIA, nor would we makewas great fun for all of us and "driving game" which he hopes any judgment on any other or­really an exercise in the educa­will prove a little more accept­ganization. We just feel the re­tive process. Education through able. 
cruitment facilities should re­psycho-drama; we were poking Slert has already assured its main open.
fun at the inconsistencies of the stamp of approval for such a Gaither pointed out that Fr.
left and they were poking fun at "constructive and educative" Hesburgh had commented that
the inconsistencies of the right." game, but CYO promises further such groups as the Black Pan­
action to save the shooting gal­
CYO leader Ryan had some thers should be allowed on cam­
leries and their affirmed right to 
redneck'ed replies to Kelly's ac­pus to recruit if they so desired,
"shoot if we want to shoot." 
cusations of brutality and some because the recruitment policy
"Oh, when will it end!" Mr. 

serious reservations about speak­necessarily had to be an open
Fero commented in reaction to 
ing with the press for fear he one.
the news of tomorrow's sit-in. 
might be misquoted. He too The exclusion of the CIA be­
"The women working here have 
agreed that the whole idea had cause it is a secret organization
a very tough job and all this 
provided something of a new or for any other reason would be 
makes them nervous. I just hope
perspective on political confron­a violation of this policy, accord­
it doesn't get out of hand. But
tations. ing to the opinion expressed by
this proves it. You can't please
The CYO enjoyed themselves the Republicans. The motion
everybody no matter what you 
so much, in fact, that they plan 
do." 
. 

St. Mary's SSO Presents : 
The Cardinal 
Thurs. Feb. 12 7:30 O'Laughlln Hall 75C 
passed the group unanimously. 
Correction 

The Observer article that ap­peared yesterday announcing the appearance of essayist Paul Goodman was in error. The arti­cle said that Goodman would be appearing on September 18 at 8:00PM in the Library Auditori­um. It is supposed to read Feb­ruary 18th. 

~--------~ 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1970 
PAGE 3
711E O&rUIIZit 

Dr. Spock to lecture during complicity week 

oy Glen Corso 
Observer News Editor 
SUAC head Pat McDonough 
yesterday announced that Dr. 
Benjamin Spock noted anti-war 
critic will lecture at Notre Dame 
on Feb. 19th at 8:00 in Stepan 
Center. The topic of his talk will 
be "Dissent and Social Change." 
Originally the student body 
was asked to state their opinion 
through a poll, whether they 
would rat her hear Spock or Abc 
Fortas ex-Supreme Court 
Justice. However, the results of 
the poll were termed 
"inconclusive" by McDonough, 
who claimed that he "took all 
the responsibility for the 
decision to invite Spock." 
lie claimed that he decided on 
Spock due to "scheduling 
problems with Fortas," and also 
because of the "general 
at rn o sphere of the student 
body". In addition McDonough 
felt that Spock 's lecture would 
be of greater interest to students 
since he thought that Fortas 
"would not take on anything 
cont rovcrsial." 
According to McDonough the SUAC budget has "reached a crucial stage." Because of that he has found it necessary in order to insure the security of our program." 
Coincidcntaly Dr. Spock will be on campus during what has been termed complicity week by the CPA. McDonough stated that he views the lecture as "Our contribution to an anti-complicity feeling." 
In order to facillitatc matters, there will be advance ticket sales for the Ieel ure in the dining halls several days beforehand. Spock will be on campus for most of the day, and meetings have been 
Pope opposes divorce bill 
VATICAN CITY (U.PJ) Pope Paul VI warned Italy yes­tenlay against passage of a divorce hill which is expected to become law before the end of this year. 
lie told his weekly general audience, which fell on Ash Wednesday,. he would consider this as a un.ilateral break of the 1929 Lateran Pact which settled a half century of church state strife in Italy. 
The Pope's speech carne on the 41st anniversary of the sign­ing of the Lateran Pact, which stipulated that only church courts can annul Catholic mar­riages of Italian citizens. 
The speech also coi1icided with a government crisis in Italy, and observers said it could fur­ther stra~ri rcl:itions between the governing <."lhisfian Democrats and their prpposed'partners in a four patty 'coalition. Only the Christian Democrats among these parties oppose divorce. 
The Socialists, one of the pro­posed coalition partners, arc sponsors of the divorce bill. 
The Lateran Pact ended the strife that began when Italian troops conquered Rome in 1870 to end the temporal power of the popes. The Italian govern­ment set up a commission last year which drew up suggestions for relatively minor revisions in the pact, to be carried out only after negotiations with the Vati~ 
can. 
Tho Observer Is published daily during the college semester except vacations by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind.• 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre [lame. Ind., 46'i56. 


include: 
March 1-A lecture by Malcolm Dooley, brother of Tom Dooley, on Tom Dooley's work. The event is being co-sponsored with the Tom Dooley Foundation, as part of their effort to raise funds on 
campus. 
March 6-Richard Hatcher, Mayor of Gary, Indiana, who will lecture in conjunction with urban studies. 
March II-Hans Morgenthau, Professor of Political Science at the University qf Chicago, will lecture on an as yet undisclosed topic. Morgenthau is known for his liberal views and opposition to the war in Vietnam. 
March 15-Ex-Bishop Shannon, who was thrown out of t h c priesthood for his marriage, will make first public appearance since the ouster. His lecture will concern church and the heirarchy. 
March 18-Frank Shakespear, head of United States lnfomation Agency will lecture. Mr. Shakespear, a noted conservative, will be on a fact finding tour about colleges for President Nixon. He has chosen to visit Notre Dame and will stay for several days. He will talk with the leaders of student government, campus political organizations, black students and the campus media 

His talk will be sponsored in conjunction with WNDU who was described by McDonough as the "go-between" for the university and the government during Shakespear's visit. 
McDonough also said that there is a possibility of holding a pollution conference sometime in April, but that its outcome d c pend ed on the financial successes of the Spock lecture. 
NEWS MEETING 
FRIDAY AT 5:00 

-

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1970
PAGE 4 
THB O&rEJWER, 

THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Editorial 
Personal Honor 

It has been almost a year since the Honor Council resigned en masse. They went out daiming that there was justifiable evidence pointing to the fact that the Honor concept was failing since a large part of the Student Body was apathetic and didn't care to enforce it. 
For the months between their resignation and the end of the year they attempted to resurrect student interest in the Honor Concept hoping that there would be a mass student movemPnt asking them to come back. 
The call never came, though. Looking back now it is probably safe to say that the vast majority of students were living up to a personal honor concept. They maintained high personal standards of inetgrity when they took tests. Perhaps there were not as many whe were willing to carry that honor conceptout to its fullest extent. Few would approach another student who was cheating and ask him to stop; few would turn in someone to the board if he did not heed warnings and continued to cheat. But most Notre Dame men maintain high standards as was evidenced by the fact that some even took the very hard step of turning themselves in when they had occassion to cheat. 
If there wasn't a mass student call for continuation of the Honor Council it was probably for the simple reason that a lot of them were only willing to take responsibility for themselves and not for other people. Now Student Government is attempting to come up with an alternative system that will provide for hearings for students who are accussed of cheating. 
The need for some sort of hearing system is obvious. As an example, a Junior was flunked by one of his professors this past semester at the recommendation of a hearing board of the Arts and Letters College. In the student's case he had been turned in for cheating by one of his classmates during the final exam. 
The professor waited until after the student in question had finished his test before talking to him. The student denied the cheating accusation. The professor said he would look over the test, the student's past record and make a decision. 
He looked at the student's test, and noted that the student had a good record of performance in class (as well as in his previous semester at Notre Dame). The teacher talked about the situation with his department head, however, and a hearing was held. During the hearing the student's accuser was called in but the student accused was not. In fact the student accused did not even know that a hearing was being held. He returned from break to find himself with an F. His professor tolk him about the hearing and said that the results had invfluenced his decision to fail the student. 
The case in point displays the need for some sort of hearing system that takes the accused's point of view into consideration as well as that of accusers and faculty members. We support the Student Government's efforts to find such a system. 
Business Mgr.: Joseph Wemhoff Ad. Mgr.: Timothy J. Dineen News Editor: Glen Corso Asst. News Editor: Bill Carter SMC News Editor: Prue Wear 
Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode Ann Conway, Jeanne Sweeney 
Layout Editor: Mary Beth Crimmons Photo Editor: Mike .Murphy 
Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin 
Feature Editor: Dave Stauffer Night Editor: Cliff Wintrode Layout Design: Phil Barth 
Layout: Susie Bury, Bro. Patrick Carney 
Headlines: Frank Weigand 

The opinions in the editorials, news analysis, and columns of The Observer are solely those of the authors and editors of The Observer and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administrations, faculty, or student bodies. 

Believe me dad, I didn't get my report card yet. No dad, 1 wasn't trying to hide anything. Yes dad, I knew you were going to get a copy. No dad, 1 would have told you first if I knew I was getting that grade. --Dad, how am 1 supposed to know why they send report cards to parents before the guys find out? Yes dad, it seems pretty studpid to me too. Yes dad ... no dad ... 
Letters to the Editor 
Legislating morality 
Editor: 

Glen Corso's comments on the SLC action regarding the CIA I cannot let go unanswered. He is grossly mistaken about the motivation behind the CIA re­solution-at least of my own as framer of that resolution and that of many who voted for it. I will have no part of "legislating morality" and would be pro­bably the last person to have proposed this on moral grounds. It was, I believe, not this kind of moral judgement at all that car­ried the resolution but rather a particular view of what academic community is about. "Given the University as a community in which open discussion is a hall­mark, then where even the pos­sibility of discussion is non-exist­ent, the University should not involve itself..." If this repre­sents some sort of moral stance, it is clearly not the sort of moral stance Mr. Corso addressed. 
Charles W. Allen 
Professor, Metallurgical 
Engineering and 
Materials Science 
Insane beliefs 
Editor: 
As usual as society "pro­gresses" or "advances" (what­ever those words mean) the Catholic Church is thirty to fifty years behind the times. Today's decision to force the priests of the Catholic Church to confirm their intent of celibacy every year is just another ignorant and irresponsible decision in the Church's long line of absurdities. 

The degrading tone the Pope took towards woman in "Hu­manae Vitae" was perhaps the most irrelevant of all his more recent decisions. It reminds one of the Church's decision to con­demn the use of anesthetics in giving birth because they were "artificial." 
Why should people even listen to the insane beliefs that one mortal man makes in the never­never land of the Vatican? I guess religion is the opium of the 

people until they figure out that 
marijuana is not addictive. Larry Overlan 1233 Notre Dame 
Concerned student 

Editor: 
In the past issues of the 
Observer, we noted the repeated 
appearance of letters by a Larry 
Overlan in the Letters to the 
Editor column. We have begun 
to note with interest the inten­
sity with which Mr. Overlan pro­
mulgates his views. And it has 
been a source of increasing 
satisfaction to know that there 
are young men at Notre Dame 
who care enough to become 
concerned and involved in 
important issues. Although we 
sometimes did not agree with 
Mr. Overlan's position, it was 
good to know that someone is · concerned and active. May more young people take the initiative to speak out and take a stand on the crucial issues facing us 
today! 
Two St. Mary's Students. 
Mafia on Campus? 

Editor: 
I feel the time has come when 
I must leave the ranks of the 
silent majority to protest what is 
nothing less than an act of rank 
discrimination. In today's issue 
of The Observer, Father Res­
burgh was quoted as saying that 
he would not allow the Mafia to 
recruit on campus. I am sure you 
were as shocked as I was. This 
organization, which has done so 
much for the cement industry; 
which annually purchases more 
long black funeral limousines 
and more flowers than any 
other; and which, in this time of 
urban cns1s, has willingly 
assumed the responsibility of 
running Newark, N.J., this 
organization is not to be allowed 
on campus. And I thought we 
were living in the Twentieth 
Century. 
In closing, I would simply like 
to leave you with the inspiring 
words of Nunzio Pazzalaqua, 
Mafia Recruitment Director: "If 
you no watch out, we putta da 
squeeze on the Golden Dome." 
Joseph Garagiola Jr. 
l 07 Keenan Hall 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1970 
PAGE fi

THE OBSERVER. 
50 Phil Ochs fans can't be wrong! 
of losing the lyrical genius which his 50 measure up to his best protest work in by Dave Stauffer fans admire most. ''Phil Ochs in Concert." There's anotl~er "I just have some tentative ideas about song about a party for Donovan hosted
and Phil Ochs? the new album. It will be the most by Tom Smothers. Ochs won a basket of Well, anyway, Phil Ochs has just personal one yet. There'll be a song about cheeses and wine in a raffle, made some released his seventh album. my childhood, songs about-cars, a song statements about the war, and threw the It's called "Phil Ochs' Greatest llits", about James Dean probably (there is), a basket into the pool. even though it isn't. Although it sacrifices straight country 'n western song." A & M sent along a short biography 
a lillie too much to the country trend, lie also said there would be a straight which is probably written by Ochs him­Ochs remains far above the mourning political song about Nixon. Recorded at self: trash of Bob Dylan and shows no signs the fall moratorium, it doesn't quite 
A SHORT EXPLANATION OF THE 
REAL PHIL OCHS EXPERIENCE CHAPTER I So You Want to be a Societal Saviour. .. Phil Ochs, in blue jeans, workshirt and 
hiking boots tramps up and down the alleys of the East Village looking for ..(. causes to espouse. It is the I 960's, institutional decade­
'.T 
..,-to-be, and a sit-in-in-sound just might ~~ ..~.: -, make the top forty if you can convince 
~· ,..., c 
.. c:o-: '•' 0 the college students to buy singles . Phil Ochs badmouths nearly everything 
and becomes no:orious. CHAPTER 2 I Ain't Marchin' (Down to get my 
Unemployment Check) Anymore ... 
A couple of fire bombings, a civil rights worker and a well-placed assassination and the market improves. A singer with a conscience need not be opportunistic to fall into the opportunities which stem from such things. 
Phil Ochs JUDICIOUSLY chooses his liner notes and is banned from radio airplay. 
CHAPTER 3 Welcome to Los Angeles ... Lured by the promise of being backed 
by the TJB, Phil Ochs signs with A&M, planning on making a MOR (middle-of­the-road) album aimed at capturing the bleeding-heart liberal audience, most of whose revolutions from here on out will 'be fought with beer cans at football Elvis Oehs. Buy the album. 
games. 

Study Help Program needs help to help 
They need the motivation to apply
improve the program in the future.
by Sue Bury 
themselves to their work. The tutors
Potential tutors are asked about the 
The Neighborhood Study Help attempt to foster this plus a realization of
fields that they would be most qualified 
the world outside home and school. 
program was designed to help to assist the child with. They are assigned One of the tutors pointed out that it isschool children in the South Bend area.. permanent tutees and an attempt is made necessary to maintain a balance betweenHowever, more tutors arc needed from to matct. talents with problems. However, an adult with a certain amount of controlthe Notre Dame-St. Mary's community in the kind of instruction involved requires and a friend on the child's level. The joborder for it to continue. no great technical proficiency. 
is sometimes frustrating to the tutors.
The operation began in 1963 with 25 Since the teachers are an integral part The results of their efforts are nortutors working in one center in South of the child's growth, tutor-teacher immediate and may not be apparent atBend. Now the night program alone relationships are encouraged. The teacher all. But they are always there. 
involves nine different centers, 300 can often give information about the The tutoring program needs peopletutors, and 500 tutees. The day program child's background and class activity that now. The night program asks you for oneis located in six centers with 125 tutors will help the tutor. 
hour (7:00 -8:00 p.m.) Monday andand a varying number of tutees -I attended a recent tutoring session and We,dnesdav or Tuesday and Thursday.
approximately 250. talked to tutors and tutees. One shy The Monday and Tuesday sessions meet
There is also a reading clinic for thosw young lady fidgeted in a corner while she in the centers in South Bend?
students who need special help operating told me that she does get good grades in 
t ransportaton is provided. The
in two centers. school. If she doesn't have homework, Tutees can apply for the program she enjoys talking to her tutor -but not Wednesday and Thursday sessions meet here at Notre Dame. The afternoon
through their schools -their parents are about boys. This is an aspect of the program asks you for two hours one day
given a form to fill out. Because the program that was emphasized over and tutoring program cannot handle an over again -the concept of the tutor as a a week at a South Bend school. If you have the time and you like kids, 
unlimited number of students, the friend. teachers select those who are in most One male tutor has six female tutees. 
call 1ohn Reid at 1654 or Bill Sorrell at 1109. It can be an educational experience 
need of extra help. This is just one The girls told me that they Jet their tutor illustration of the need for more tutors. stay because "he's cool." He helped girls 
for you as well as the child you Some children who do need attention last year, too, and said that his tutees help. 
Spiked punch at a freak party changes all that, and Ochs records with his version of the Mothers of Invention, coming up with things like "Crucifixion." ("Psyche­delic!" scream his fans.) 
Phil Ochs, mellowing in his old age, arrested for beating up cops at peace marches. 
CHAPTER 4 
Semi-romantic interlude... 
Phil Ochs arrested for assaulting a 
minor-uses felony conviction as a ploy 
to evade draft. 
CHAPTER 5 
Awopbompaloobomp... 
Phil Ochs, bored one night while on 
tour in Kansas, goes to movie, seeing 
"King Kong," and "The Girl Can't Help 
It." Ochs captivated by Fats Dominae's 
showmanship and operatic singing voice 
and vows to go back to the roots. 
Phil Ochs' next album, with Phil backed by the Larry Marks Singing Orch­estral Circus, features sociological mastur­bation on the great ideas of the age. It is Ochs' last pre-revival album, the prover­bial calm before the storm, as it were, with Ochs madly searching through the Tinseltown Costume shops for the outfit that will bring him back to the days of Ruben and the Jets that he loves so 
_dearly. 

Phil Ochs, at age I 5, wearing leather jacket and latter-day jack boots, arrested for leaving his car idling unattended at a STOP sign to jump out and mug an old lady on the sidewalk. People change, but ... memories always remain. 
CHAPTER LAST 
Tin Pan Aley at last. .. 
Ochs forms band featuring Jimmy Page on guitar, Doug Dillard on banjo, Keith Moon on drums, Jack Bruce on bass and Joe Cocker and Neil Young on back-up vocals. First revival tour booked, taking him all the showplaces of the world: Vegas, the Grove, the Savoy Lounge and so forth. Acompanying him on the tour, second billed, naturally, is Barbra Strei­sand. 
Ochs arrested on stage in New York's Copacabana as a public menace when his gold-flaked suit blinds the armed guards at club he is playing. Defends himself by beating off his would-be arrestors with his electric guitar until 47 of them finally subdue him and take him into custody; 3 dead, 17 wounded, 2 missing, reports the Daily News gailey. On his way to paddy wagon, Ochs disavows ever having known the definition of the word "non-violent." 
Release of Ochs' most significant album pushed forward to coincide with his sensational incarceration; PHIL OCHS' GREATEST HITS, in six volumes, including a double-record set of Ochs doing the best of Lillian Gish and Cow­boy Copas. 
Ochs' new-found fans, disorderly to the man, riot outside jail where he is held, beating up people indiscriminately. Ochs eggs them on from his cell. 
CHAPTER UNWRITTEN 
A Never Ending Saga ... 
OLD FOLKIES NEVER DIE!! 
EXEUNT WITH FLOURISH 
outside the classroom are not getting it would call him at home, if only to have bet""'~" nf a -:hnrtal!e of help. someone to talk to. 
·:l_'_~e pro_¥ram involves a number of; This situation shows the need for girl special activities, planned within each tutors expecially. (1 sometimes think that individual center. One group took their if the tutoring program involved the tutees to Chicago to visit the Museum of !subject of bridge, 90% of SMC would be Natural ntstory and other places of happy to volunteer.) A 6-1 ratio is interest. Some of the children had never obviously not beneficial to the tutees. been out of South Bend (an existence Also, girl tutees react better to girl tutors; cam parable to suspended animation) and they tend to flirt with male tutors. were quite excited about the trip. Other The ideal ratio is 1-1. With more activities such as picnics, holiday parties tutees, a competition factor arises and the and sports events arc part of the tutor's children have less ability to concentrate. program. Some of the little boys follow But the program goes much further than ND sports ratings. strict academic endeavors. The phrase 
The tutors try to show, through this that comes up most often is "big kind of activity that school is not all brother." These children lack attention. books and work. With the Chicago visit, Sometimes large families prevent them for example, they can make learning a from getting it at .home. The tutoring meaningful experience. program gives them a chance to have 
This year is really an experimental one someone specially for them. Many of 
for NSH. By trying a number of different them tackled their tutors as they got off 
approaches the best methods of the bus at the center. 
o rganizaing and scheduling can • be Some of the tutees are shy, some discovered and used to modify and outspoken, some seem amazingly sharp. The masculine American man. 

~-----­

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1970
PAGE 6 
THE OBS!'RfiEit 

Volunteer Services,lnc. holds meeting at SM C 
·~­

"Most of our work is un­(continued from page 1) professional ~services, assisting 
professionals in their work with Shiel, an SMC senior, stated that man-labor," she said. "But there the program will offer five ·is also a lot of work to be done projects in problem areas of the with children and the retarded." United States in addition to the The South Bend newspaper Mexican and South American The Reformer, a voice of the programs. Balck community, needs writers 
and photographers to report Black and Christian news at Saint Mary's and·Notre Dame, to do research on the application of Christianity to racial/poverty problems, and to sell subscrip­tions and advertising. 
According to Rev. Grady L. Thompson of Mt. Zion Baptist Mission Church and a member of the paper's Board of Directors, the Reformer attempts to present "news not generally known to the public about the Blace community, and to present it for both Blacks and Whites." 
Another South Bend action group, the Christian Democrat Movement, needs workers to help in its campaign for prison reform. Richard Giloth, director of the CD Research Center at Notre Dame, described the movement as "an attempt to relate Christianity to democratic politics for the benefit of man and society." 

Giloth mentioned other COM projects in need of researchers: the establishment of a Peace Academy to counter the military academies; family assistance programs; civil rights legislation to eliminate discrimination. 
Mrs. Charldine Hamilton, executive secretary of the March of Dimes Foundation in St. Joe County, noted that the organiza­
The Urban League of South Bend and St. Joseph County is seeking members for its Youth 
tion  is  searching  for  young  
people to raise  funds  for  re­ 
search.  

Two 1 5/8 inch diameter 
Two 1 1/8 inch diameter 
Margo Hoff, SMC's artist-in-residence 
4 for $1 
to present public exhibition· of workSend $1 Cash-No C.O.D.'s To: 
11111111111111111111111111 

her arrival at Saint Mary's last fall. The exhibit will be open to the public free of charge in the Moreau Art Gallery on campus from February 15 to March 8, 1970. 
In conjunction with the open­ing of the exhibit on Sunday, February I 5, from 4-6 p.m., there will be a public reception honoring the artist in Moreau Art Gallery. 
As an artist and printmaker, Margo Hoff has held over twenty one-man exhibitions at major galleries throughout the United States and in Paris, France, and Beirut, Lebanon. Examples of her creative pieces are also con­tained in the great collections of the world. She is represented in the Victoria and Albert Museum, the Carnegie Institute, the Rosenwald Foundation, the Chi-

Most Southern states take action to adopt anti -busing resolutions 
By (United Press International) 
Anti busing moves mounted across the South yesterday and informed sources said U;e Lousiana Legislature would be called into special session to deal with education problems. 
North Carolina Gov. Bob Scott told a news conference that state funds would not be used to bus school children out 
Take-in, Let-out. Take-up, Let-down 
Clothing Alterations done in my home 
lnge Bradburn ·52400 Helman Rd. South Bend 


~------------------------~~~~~----~-----------­
Community. The organization attempts to provide equal opportunity for Negro citizens. 
Volunteer Services, Inc., was created by Maureen Considine and Roger Cormier, a Moreau seminarian, to provide those 

ND-SMC students were informed about local service agencies at the Volunteer Services night held at Saint Mary's. 
cago Art Institute, the Johnson ·Wax Company Gallery, the Bib­
liotheque Nationale, Paris, and 
the collections of the University 
of Illinois, the University of Wis­
consin, and the University of 
Minnesota. 
In addition, her work has 
been reviewed by ART: USA, 
Fortune, Time, Kenyon Review, 
and UNICEF. She has done 
work on commission for the 
Mayo Clinic; the Henry Street 
Playhouse; Funk and Wagnell; 
the architectural firm of Skid­
more, Owings and Merrill; 
UNICEF; the Society of Con­
temporary Music in Chicago; and 
the Illinois Bell Telephone 
Company. 
Margo Hoff was designated as 
Visiting Artist of the American 
University at Beirut, Lebanon, 
during 1955-56 under a grant 
of their neighborhoods, and tne 
Florida cabinet adopted two a­
busing resolutions. 
The Tennessee Senate also passed an anti busing measure by a 24-2 vote, with the only opposition coming from the Senate's two Negro members. 
Sen. James B. Allen, D Ala., meanwhile, called on all southern governors to push for anti busing and freedom of choice laws. He suggested they be patterned after New York State's statute which has been approved by federal courts. 
Moves already are underway 

~.Uus~ of Yt"~tOll. 31\t. • 
•• 
Crpftsmen ifi Optics 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGL.«SSES AND CONTACT LENf.ES --
TilE S1fHRI.AND BLJlG. 132 S. MICHIGAN ST. 
Central 2-1468 
~IIUSe oJ ViSion~
. ­
Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.·-Chicago 
students wanting to do volunteer social work with information on groups in need of help. Maureen said, "So many students want to work and don't know where to go. Volunteer Services is the referral agency for them." 
from the Duke Foundation. In the 1967-68 academic year she was Visiting Professor at South­ern Ilinois University, and has been in residence at Saint Mary's College since the beginning of 
the school's fall semester. 
Saint Mary's College, founded in I844 by the Sisters of the Holy Cross, has recently con­cluded a year-long 125th Anni­versary observance at which Margo Hoff and eleven other no,ted alumnae and nationally known figures were awarded honorary doctorate degrees. 
One of the oldest Catholic women's liberal arts colleges in the nation, Saint Mary's College is located on the northern perimeter of South Bend, In­diana. It has one of. the largest resident enrollments of any simi­lar institution in the country. 
in the legislatures of Georgia, South Carolina and Mississippi to adopt some form of "freedom of choice" legislation. 
Informed sources in Lousiana predicted Wednesday that Gov. John J. McKeithen will c::tll a special session of the legislature Feb. 18 to deal with public schools. The source said McKeithen will give the legislators five days to deal with two b iII s-one dealing with unitary school systems and the ·other with a New York type 
busing law. 
Gov. Scott of North Carolina told a news conference that a 1969 state law prevents involuntary busing of students, and expenditure of state funds for such busing . 
Gov. Claude Kirk introduced one of the Florida anti busing resolutions to the cabinet, and 
State  Education  Commissioner  
Floyd  Christian  presented  the  
other.  The  cabinet  decided  to  

ask state legal authorities to extract the best parts of both and merge them into one resolution for adoption as policy. 
PLUS THAR SHE BLOWS 
Students must show Notre Dame ID as proof of age 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1970 THE OBSERfJER. 
PAGE 7 

Admits orders to hold up My Lai proceedings 
FT. BENNING, Gl). (UPI)~­The defense drew from a top staff officer yesterday the ad­mission he was once told to "hold up" on proceedings against Lt. William L. Calley, Jr. in the My Lai massacre case. 
The testimony came during the third day of hearings on a defense motion to have charges against Calley thrown out on grounds that "command influ­ence"-reaching as high as the White llouse has made it im­possible for the lieutenant to get a fair military trial. 
Calley is charged with pre­meditated murder of I 02 Viet­namese men, women and child­ren of March 16, 1968, the day that his platoon swept through the village of My Lai 4. 
Tells of Call 
Testifying yesterday was Col. Jim D. Keirsey, staff officer at Ft. Benning. lie told of receiving a telephone call in late August from Brig. Gen. Samuel Reid, his counterpart at the Third Army level at Fori McPherson in Atlanta. 
"I ie [Reid I said he had two things to tell me," Keirsey recall­ed. "One was thai the command­ing general of the Third Army received a call from Brig. Gen. James K. Woolnough command­er of the Continental Army Command, saying that whatever action we took ·if we decided to proceed against Lt. Calley-he would not he placed in confine­men I. 
"The second was to hold up on proceedings because, he said, we might gel further instructions through channels." 
Normally soft spoken defense attorney George W. Latimer pounced on the phrase "hold up," and had Keirsey reconfirm it. 
"llold up?" he asked. 
"Yes," Keirsey replied. 
CPA to initiate Complicity Week 
(continued from page 1) 
necessary to effect social and 
political change. She concluded 
that "Maybe we don't have any 
right on this campus either." 
Ed Hoffman of the "Chicago 
IS" said that pacifists are often 
guilty of a "moral eliteism" 
when they think their approach 
to the problem of militarism is 
morally superior to others. 
Hoffman also asserted that 
the radical philosophy of the 
American, John Brown, should 
be more popular among Amer­
ican reformers rather than the 
non-violent philosophy of the 
Indian, Ghandi. He felt that to­
day's radicals often lose the 
meaning of their protest by con­
fusing the process of non-vio­
lence. with the desired effect of 
their actions. 
Following Hoffman's address 
was a period of discussion con­
cerning, among other things, the 
wages of maintenance personnel 
here at Notre Dame. 
Instances of abuse of person­
nel's rights and the low wage 
scale were discussed with the 
hope of developing a form of 
actton to be taken against the 
university. With the conclusion 
of the discussion the meeting 
broke 110. 
No Date Set the trial. Washington informing him given what has been termed the Keirsey said the first indica­Calley was at Ft. Benning and "green light" to proceed on their The pretrial hearings have tion he had that Calley was "was not to be reassigned." own in the Calley case. been conducted in the same under investigation came July He said the "hold up" order 
He said Gen. Reid called again
courtroom where Calley will be 23rd when he rec~ived a call he later received from Brig. Gen. 
saying, "It's your action, you're 
court martialed if his motions from Col. William Wilson of the Reid was removed on Sept. 4th 
not receiving any instructions."
fail. No date has yet been set for Inspector General's Office in or 5th when officials here were 

• 

Answer that one and you'll open up a through the 'crystal. be sensitively controlled by applying a whole new field of solid state physics magnetic field to the crystal.
This phenomenon is called the that just might come to be called 
"singlet" excited state: or the singlet Perhaps the next step will be the "excitonics." Because the most excit· 
exciton. DuPont scientists have pro· engineering of devices that manipulate ing thing about excited molecules in 
duced it with a 150-watt bulb. In the light signals directly, bypassing the solids, right now, is that no one knows 
singlet, an electron is excited without present need to convert them first into what to do with them. 
any change in direction of its spin or electrical signals and then back into 
This intriguing state of affairs came magnetic moment. It dies quickly, and light. Perhaps too this line of research about after physicists began firing a blue light emerges from the crystal. will lead to greater understanding of photons into molecular crystals and But with an intense light source, such the mechanisms of light-energy trans­observing the results. Which were: as the laser, an even more interesting fer itself, such as those involved in ''excitons." excited state has been produced: the photosynthesis by living plants. The 
An exciton is a conceptual entity that ''triplet.'' possibilities are many. has more "stateness" than "thing ness" In the triplet, the spin of the excited Innovation-applying the known to about it. When a photon strikes a electron is reversed, a magnetic field discover the unknown, inventing new molecule in an organic crystal with is produced, and the excited state lasts materials and putting them to work, sufficient energy, it bumps an. electron a million times as long-about a hun· using research and engineering to to a higher energy level, leaving a dredth of a second. DuPont researchers create the ideas and products of the "hole" in the molecule. In the brief have also found that two triplets can future-this is the venture Du Pont interval before it falls back into its hole, combine, producing a singlet exciton people are engaged in. the electron releases the energy it re· with greatly increased energy and a For a variety of career opportunities, ceived from the photon, which propa· life span of a hundred millionth of a and a chance to advance through many gates another hole-electron pair in a second. Of promising interest is that fields, talk to your Du Pont Recruiter. neighboring molecule, and thus on this tendency of triplets to merge can Or send us the coupon. 
r----------------------------------, 
DuPont Company, Room 7892, Wilmington, DE 19898 I 
I

Please send me the booklets checked below. 
I I I 

0 Chemical Engineers at Du Pont 
0 Mechanical Engineers at DuPont 
0 Engineers at DuPont 

0 Accounting, Data Systems, Marketing, Production 
Name_____________________________ 
University_______________________--.,...­
1 Degree Graduation Dale,________ 
I ~ 
•u.u.I.P#IT.OII·
: Address __________________ 
Ventures for better living. 
: Gity State Zip____ 1 An Equal Opportunity Employer (M/F) 
L----------------~-----------------~ 
711£ OBSERIJER. THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1970
PAGE 8 
Tom Bornholdt 
World leader 
The Young Revolutionary eyed Mr. by a machine gun, by accident. A noble by military necessity. War would ruin the Leader felt that he had no right to Siverstein with distrust, lest the old man city of culture devastated by bombings. puny little country, not save it. The interfere with the government the people interfere with the progress of the Revolu­Charred corpses from an incendiary at­Other Side was barbaric and heartless at of the Other Side had chosen. And 
tion, by bringing the corrupt, bureaucra­tack. White phosphorous. Passenger ships times, but war is savage, always cruel and certainly the Other Side weren't fools tic, inhuman Establishment _back to torpedoed by submarines. Mustard gas vindictive with each side, no matter how they wouldn't start a war which would power. Siverstein shuddered under the blistering and choking thousands. democratic, committing hundreds of devastate all countries involved. They Sweat covered the World Leader's were reasonable people in their own way
glare of the youth, and remembered the heinous atrocities. 
sweet little house he had owned, but palms and face. It was his choice, his and were not desirous of conquering the
There i.s another argument for war that 
which the government of the Revolution responsibility. If he chose war, the hor­claimed that the Other Side wanted world, or involved in some grotesque had confiscated in order to build a better rors of war would be his responsibility. way.
world domination, and would slowlysociety. The old man also remembered his The blood would be on his hands. If there was to be a war, it would be
gobble up small nations. According to dead wife, and a slight tear came to his · "War," he muttered again with revul· this theory, if the Other Side makes and the fault of the World Leader. The world eye. He pulled her picture from his sion. What sense was there to it? Killing -­hung over a narrow precipice; with ease it
fulfills one ·unreasonable demand, it will 
pocket and stared at it. not iust one or two, but millions. could fall into a war which could destroy
make another unreasonable demand, then 
The Young Revolutionary saw this, "There is no right to kill indiscriminate­civilization, and maybe man himself. With
another, and eventually countries will fall 
however, and shouting obscenities, ran ly," he thought. There is no excuse for a rising certainty and calmness, World
to them like a row of dominoes. But 
towards Siverstein, grabbed the picture, war in any circumstance. "The issue is Leader made his decision. There would be
World Leader doubted this as well. The 
and quickly tore it to pieces. The civic the primacy of human life," he thought. no war. He would back away from the
Other Side's demands were not totally
minded youth then denounced the old "If there was a justification to war," precipice. World Leader had made his
unfair; the Leader of the Other Side 
man for having "old fashioned, pro-Estab­thought the World Leader, "it would be 'decision for life and peace!
claimed that reunification of his people
lishment sentiments." self-defense, if attacked, then there is a had outside
was his goal, and that is certainly a just Clouds gathered tnean­
A lady begged a nearby policeman to case for going to war". The World Leader 
request. while. and gradually drops had begun to stop the youth, but he refused, saying, could not decide if self-defense was a fall. But World Leader did not notice
World Leader thought of his counter­
"What is a piece of paper? Nothing. I valid argument. this as he dreamed of a better world, of a
part, the charismatic Leader of the OtherBut that
don't think I can condemn the youth. was not the issue. Tne Other world where the swords will be beaten
Side. Was he as really as much as monsterSide had not attacked. The issue was the
VIolence against property cannot be into plowshares. He dreamt of building
as people made· him out to be? Other
equated with violence against people. As annexation of a territory by the Other bridges of understanding t.o the Other
Leader was a national hero, he overthrew 
it is in many cases day after day, the Side. It involved a small country of a few Side. He thought of the much needed
• young people become frustrated and take million with limited area and resources. It the pathetic government which had been domestic improvement that could be ac­indirectly imposed on his country, and
out their frustration on human proper­was of limited strategic value. complished in a world safe from war. A
united the country behind him. Other
ties." There was an argument that he should glow of inner warmth and triumph cameLeader was a dynamic, powerful forceuse war, if necessary to prevent the brutal
Less than a mile away, the World over World Leader as he realized the
which had gotten the support of his
Leader was unaware of Siverstein's plight. crushing of human rights by the Other benefits which would result from his
people and lifted them out of theirSide. Yet the World Leader didn't accept
In a well lit room separated from the decision against a senseless war. He would
apathy and misery. He had overcome the
outside by colorful curtains, the World this as valid reasoning. True, a few thou­go down in history as a saviour of
unjust treaties imposed by foreign powers
Leader was making his final decision. The sand may be executed, maybe a million humanity.
on his country, and given his country a
alternatives were simple: war or peace. will lose their possessions, and almost all­World Leader ran to his door to tell the
spirit, just like Washington for America,will lose their rights to free speech and
"War," muttered to himself, all alone others that his decision had been made. 
or Pitt for England. No, World Leader
in the room. A series of macabre images voting. But if there was a war, many more Occupied with thoughts of a new day for 
was inspired with a certain sense of awe 
ran through the world Leauer's mind. A will die in bombings, shellings, and at­man, the World Leader forgot his raincoat 
for Other Leader.
pock marked battlefield littered with tacks. Entire villages and cities will be and umbrella. Singing, "All we are sayingleveled as they become battlefields. Hu­
thousands of corpses. A young mother He didn't agree with totalitarian gov­is give peace a chance," Neville Chamber­and her two children being mowed down man rights will be trampled by all sides ernment of the Other Side, but World lin marched into the Munich rain. 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Jackie Onassis 'upset' over theft of letters 
them written whlle she still was Cravath, Swaine & Moore, where person he was talking about wasNEW YORK (UPI)-·how friendly Gilpatric and Mrs. 
First Lady, are ··addressed to Gilpatric is a partner. The lawyer Mr. Gilpatric and for reasons ofJacqueline Kennedy Onassis was Onassis had been 
"Dear" or "Dearest Ros." Each 
said he had received the letters delicacy to push
described yesterday as "very Mrs. Onassis' spokesman I didn't want 
is a thank you note for a letter in the mail and was acting as a for his name. I thought he might upset" over the theft of her firmly denied any innuendo that 
she had to the about the baby she was agent for the owner, Hamilton be selling them because he waspersonal letters to former contributed 
expecting, for the present of a said. in financial trouble," HamiltonDeputy Defense Secretary breakup of his marriage. 
toy helicopter to her son John, 
"All along I thought the said.
Roswell L. Gilpatric. "That is so untrue and sort of 
for the present of •a "slim little
A spokesman for the former unfair to both of them," the 
volume" of poems to herself and 
First Lady :~aid _Mrs. Onassis, no spokesman said. "They are very 
for his public statements wishing 
Charles to speak out
stranger to public curiosity close friends. He was at the 
her "a happiness that certainly is
herself, was concerned over the Onassis' first anniversary party 
entitled her" after her marriage
distress the case must be causing at their apartment in October. 
to Onassis.
her "very good friend" Gilpatric. And he was a very good friend 
as member of lords
Gilpatric, 64, was a frequent

The four letters, written by of President Kennedy too." 
escort of the widowed 
Parliament were hostile forces.
Mrs. Onassis to Gilpatric Gilpatric's wife, the former LONDON (UPI) Com-
Jacqueline Kennedy and was a 
His father, Prince Philip, was
between 1963 and 1968, Madeline Thayer, was quoted manded by his mother the queen
member of her party on a trip to 
enroute to a Cape Kennedy visit. 
disappeared from his law office Wednesday as saying her to ignore danger in debating his
the Yucatan. Their friend ship 
But Princess Anne, his sister,
files and reappeared for sale at husband and Mrs. Onassis were country's laws, Prince Charles 
the autograph firm of Charles "very, very close." dates to her days in the White took his seat yesterday in the and Princess Margaret, his aunt,
House and his in the Defense 
beamed down from the disting­
Hamilton. " I have my own feelings House of Lords.
Department during the 
uished strangers' gallery. On the
The District Attorney's office about that, but I won't go into The 21-year-old heir to the
administration of John F. 
chamber floor were Lord Sllow­
seized the letters !lnder them," she told a reporter for British throne did not make a
Kennedy. 
don, Margaret's husband, and
subpoena Tuesday as Gilpatric's the Chicago Daily News. "Just maiden speech following a nine
Hamilton, head of the 

Lord Mountbatten, Charles'
third wife was filing· separation say it was a particularly warm, minute seating ceremony that
autograph firm, said the letters 
grand uncle. 
papers in state Supreme Court­close long lasting relationship." made him the sixth Prince of
were brought to him by a lawyer
leading to speculation about just Mrs. Onassis' letters, two of Wales introduced in Parliament
formerly associated with 
When Charles eventually rises in debate, he will be the first in 285 years. 
But Buckingham Palace 

Prince of Wales to do so sincesources said Charles, in the fu­the 1860's.
ture visits to the gilded chamber 
by the River Thames, would The peers boomed a rousing
ABM radars may endanger crews 
·ignore royal tradition of nonin­"hear" at the end of the seating ceremony.
volvement and speak out on the 
issues he champions. 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-The backer of Safeguard, confirmed Army program. 
swore Flanked by his two sponsors,
Safeguard Antiballistic Missile in general terms existence of the In a clear voice he ABM radars emit such powerful difficulty. acceptance of his mother's the Dukes of Beaufort and Kent, radiation at present that it could words making "our dear son Charles circled the chamber and
"They recognize that it's a The administration is asking
cripple the range missiles problem, but it's anything Congress $I .4 · billion Charles" a peer and commanding sat briefly the right of the
long not for for at 
and endanger the health of their him "by faith and allegiance to royal throne, a move that dates
that is causing them appre­Safeguard during the fiscal year ignore danger and be at West­
launch crews, it was learned yes­hension," Sikes said. "It is some­starting July I. President Nixon to King Henry VIII. 
terday. minster" to debate and vote on
thing that has to be watched, has announced his intention to the laws of the country he one He slipped a gold seal ring onThe Army has told key mem­though nothing that will cause expand the system from the two 
bers of Congress about the pro­day may rule. Queen Elizabeth his left little finger and briefly
any slowdown in the schedule." ABM sites in North Dakota and 
"meshing" ABM Pike, was absent because of protocol the black velvet cap of
blems of the Rep. Otis D N.Y., an Montana which Congress ap­donned 
born in days when the crown and maintenance he carried. 
system with the Minuteman ABM opponent, said he had not proved last year to the full I 2 
ICBMs it will surround, but heard about radar radiation pro­installations envisioned in the 
believes it can overcome them. blem but said he intended to ask 
program. Eleven of those sites 
Rep. Robert ·L. F. Sikes, D aobut it when Army witnesses would be built near Minutemen 
Fla., a ranking member of the appear before the House Com­
silos and the 12th around Wash­
House de_fense _ appropriations 
mittee in March seeking con­ington to protect the National subcommittee and a principal tinued authorization for the Command Center. 


