
Observer draws Bishop's criticism; Sen. debates money allocations 
by Dave McCarthy 
The most stimulating mo­ments of last night's marathon session of the Student Senate came during a question-answer period between Ernie Jackson, President of the Afro-American Society and several Senators, following Jackson's presentation of the itemized account of the funds requested by the Afro­American Society. 
A statement of the Finance . Committee's recommendations was distributed, and, after a few minutes was spent voting down a motion to begin the meeting with a prayer, the four-hour session was devoted to budget presentations from represen­tatives of the organizations to which funds had been alloted. 
In most cases the Finance 
Committee recommended funds 
lower than those requested in 
the budgets submitted by the 
organizations to the Committee. 
Dennis Conroy, Student Govern­
ment treasurer, acting as spokes­
man for the Finance Committee 
presented brief rationales of 
Cormittee recommendations 
prior to the presentations of the 
spokesmen from the various 
organizations. 
Tim Mahoney, former execu­
tive Coordinator of the HPC 
spoke first. The Finance Com 
rrittee had recommended that 
the HPC be given $500 and 
Mahoney _explained why that 
body sought $2000. He con­
tended that, "The halls should 
not be responsible for the 
burden of running An Tostal. 
WSND, the University Arts 
Council, and other organizations 
made similar presentations, de­
fending their particular budget 
requests; but there was little 
excitement until Jackson item­
ized the budget submitted by 
the Afro-American Society. 
Several Senators sought clari­
fication of requests of $1500 for 
a Black Film Festival and $300 


OFFICIAL 
DIOCESE OF FORT WAYNE-SOUTH BEND Chancery Office Box 390 Fort Wayne, Ind. 46801 
In response to inquiries about recently published items in The Observer, a student paper "serving the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Community," I consider it my duty, however painful, to make a public statement, reminding my readers that I am dealing now with a single, specific matter of necessary concern to me as Bishop of this Diocese. 
On October 16th The Observer reported an address, with selected quotations, given at the University of Notre Dame, by an advocate of the Women's Liberation Movement. What I saw was a scurrilous attack upon the Catholic Church and a blasphemous insult to the Mother of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I was shocked by what was said, how it was said and where it was said. Upon reading it I wrote at once to the President of the University. 
In a subsequent issue (October 26th), the same student paper carried an advertisement for an Abortion Service Agency in New York which 1 need not describe in detail. 
Whatever explanation of this kind of performance may be . offered, there can be no adequate excuse for it. Knowing the 
difficulty in these days of meeting official obligations, I am 
prepared to understand the problems of any person in any 
position of au~hority. But there is a point beyond which 
toleraJlce cannot go if it must leave conscience behind. 
Leo A Pursley Bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend 
for a Tutorial program, which Jackson cited was "a more effective program for black stu­dents. 'l But the most controver­sial request was for a $1000 "emergency" fund. 
In explaining the rationale for this request Jackson said, "You can Upredict the exact nature of an emergency," and noted that the fund was intended to assist black students requiring, for exan'ple, legal aid. or travelling 
(Continued on page 8) 
by Ed Ellis 
Observer News Editor 

The storm of controversy 
created over the past few weeks by Observer coverage of the Ti-Grace Atkinson speech of October 15' and the New York Abortion Information Agency advertisement of October 26 came to a head yesterday when the diocesan Catholic newspaper Our Sunday Visitor printed a critical open letter from Bishop Leo A. Pursley, prelate of the South Bend-Fort Wayne diocese. In it he vigorously criticized The .Observer for its actions in publishing the material in ques­tion and criticized the Notre Dame administration for allow­ing such events to occur in the first place. The bishop's letter mentioned a letter had been sent to Fr. Hesburgh, University President, concerning the situa­
tion there. 
The entire text of Bishop 
Pursley's letter is printed in 
today's Observer. 
In an editorial titled "What's Happening at Notre Dame," the Visitor attacked the presence of Ti-Grace Atkinson on campus, calling it "a betrayal of the millions of Catholics throughout the United States, and the world for that matter, who have through the years come to look ' upon Notre Dame as a staunch defender of the Faith, the Church, and the honor of the most sacred example of woman­hood -Our Lady -Notre Dame." 
The editorial continued, "We hope responsible persons on the campus have now decided that it is time to call a halt as to whom may be invited to speak and what may be said on campus... remembering that decency and truth may not be ig­nored...How much time is left for this once proud institution so dedicated to the cause of Holy Mother Church and of course -Our Lady?" 
The actions and statements of Bishop Pursley and Our Sunday Visitor call into question the Qniversity's "Open Speaker Poli­cy," the Student Union Aca­demic Commission's speaker program, and the integrity of the Observer as a campus newspaper. University President Theodore 
M. Hesburgh and the director of the campus groups under attack responded to the Visitor's accu­sations when conta cted by The Observer. 
Fr. H!sburgh said that the bishop's letter was "a perfectly legitimate reaction and that he "tried to answer it seriously. " 
Hesburgh also. defended the University's "Open Speaker Poli­cy," calling it a "darn good thing." He said that the purpose of the University must be to explore fields in which the student body is ignorant, and that an open policy is the only 
(Continued on page 8) 

Academic Council organizes 
by Dave Bach The selection process for undergraduate and graduate stu­dent representatives on the Uni­versity Academic Council, the highest body on academic mat­ters concerning the university, is now well underway. Nominations for graduate stu­dent representatives which have 

been open since late Octot...;>r, The representative trom me close today; but the nominations graduate students will be selec­for the four undergraduate rep-ted by the Graduate &udent resentatives and the Law Council. School-MBA representative close· The Law School-MBA seat is Nov. 12. one which will alternate an-
All undergraduate students nually between the two groups. are eligible for selection to the This year, the representative will Academic Council, first year be from the Law School. Law students according to their col~ students may submit their name lege intent. Students may submit and statement of purpose to the their name and brief statement Board of Directors of the Law of purpose to the chairman of School Student Bar Association. the proper nominating commit-The representative next year tee. will be selected in the same way 
The chairman of nominating from the MBA student body by committees are: Arts and Letters the Executive Club of the MBA. Student Advisory Council, Ed-The Law School and MBA ward McCartin; Business Ad-· representative will be selected ministration Student-Council, separately from the graduate Robert Bramlette; the Joint-school because the Law School Engineering Council, Robert and MBA programs are not Jensen and the Student Council under the Director of Graduate of the College of Science, Studies. Since the student bodies Thomas Kenny. of these two groups are separate, 
The nominating committee it was felt that it would be best will interview each candidate to alternate years rather than and will submit the names of have Law students voting for three nominees to a final board MBA students that they don't of selection composed of the know and vice versa. student body President, one Vice-President of Student Af­representative from each nomi-fairs Rev. Thomas Blantz said nating committee and two non-that he hoped that the represen­voting advisors from the Aca-tatives could be selected before demic Council, one representing the next Academic Council the Administration and one the meeting. However, he said that faculty. the data of the meeting has not 
From the three nominees yet been finalized by the steer­submitted by each nominating ing Committee. committee, the board of selec-In a letter to the nominating tion will choose one student for committees, Blantz recom­membership on the Academic mended that the groups begin Council. interviewing candidates soon

Thursday, November 5, 1970 
WE TAKE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO THANK NOTRE DAME & SMC FOR THE OONDERFUL RECEPTION AND HOPE YOU CONTINUE TO PATRONIZE 
ROllA'S PIZZA LOUNCE 
219 N. MICHIGAN TEL 234-3258 
·ROOM DELIVEIIY -DISCOUNT 2S% 4-7 PM DAILY 
(with this ad) 
NOW PLAYING 
CALL 288-8488 FOR TIMES-DIRECTIONS 


"'M:::A:::s:::H' is what the new freedom of the screen is all about." 
-Richard Schickel, Life 
2o. 
";::::.:~·:_1\_,....,~~;.,~~r-,... 
An lngo Preminger Production Color by DE LUXE • Panavision® riD~ 
Page 2
'£ OBSERfiER. 

Bennigsen on non-Russians 
by Glen Sorge 

Last night Alexandre Bennigsen spoke about the non­Russian peoples in the Soviet Union. He began by pointing out that more than half of all the people in the Soviet Union are not Russian. 
These "immigrants" include 
two  main  groups,  Slavic  and  
non-Slavic.  The  Slavics include  
Ukranians,  Finns,  Rumanians,  

and Jews. The non-Slavics include Baltic peoples, Armenians, Budhists, and Moslems. 
The main part of the lecture dealt with the Moslem popula­tion in USSR. The Moslems represent 20 percent of all the 
Soviet Union population. They are growing at a rate that will shortly make them the dominant people of the Soviet Union. Mr. Bennigsen said that the Russians, sensing their problem as long ago as 1890, tried to divide the Moslem nation. They set up 28 different Moslem sects; each 
with their own language and alphabet. The "artificial" nationf. failed and the Moslems remain united. 
The newest generation of Moslems are rejecting their Russian history and searching for their own past. They are turning up heroes whom were traditionally enemies of USSR. 
Several  of  these  heroes  were  
English allies.  
However  Mr.  Bennigsen  
stated,  "We  must  not  make  a  


mistake in judging these Moslems. Moslems of the Soviet Union are better Communists than the Russians themselves. They are not separatists and are not any more liberal." 
In general Mr. Bennigsen seems to indicate that the USSR will, by the year 2000, be ruled by a Moslem population, but will be no less an enemy of the Free 
World. 

Ad Hoc commitee reports 
by Ann Therese Darin 
An Ad Hoc committee ap­pointed to investigate the possi­bilities of coeducation released its report Tuesday afternoon to the SMC faculty. 
Because the Tuesday meeting was "inconclusive;" according to an observer, the group has Jecided to meet again today .at 
4:15 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. The report is now confidential. 
Although Dr. Anthony Black, chairman of the faculty assembly, could not release the details of the proposal, he did state that it emphasizes the admission of St. Mary's into the Notre Dame university commu­nity while maintaining its unique identity. 
A nine-man team, including Drs. Elizabeth Noel, Bruno Schlesinger and Sr. Miriam Pat­rick, members of the SMC-ND Coordinating Com mit tee, worked on this proposal. Other faculty members working on the draft were Drs. (harles Poin­sette, Richard Hutcheson, and Clarence Dineen. The officers of the assembly also served on the committee. 
This is the second proposal in two weeks on the coeducation 

~~''''\\1,,~,,,~)~~~"'~'~\\11111//if/1/(.Q~ 
1

~''''~'"'' :: ,... ~" ...?:
~'~''''·.\\ \\ • \' 1 :: ~::·· UNITED WHOLESALE, INC. ~~ ~~\V.:.,'". \·. 1 ~::. Announces -~ 
~~ • \ •• •,. •. ' ::;:::::;:~~ opening of it's --~-= 
~~•.s::~~',· ~· WCHAOTLAELSOAGLE ·,~
~~1::~,
~<··'· 
~:~~· 
~ •• '· ~·::-->
~:'-'
~$
§::~::
§<:· 
.........
~.....
~ ...... ;,~:·~*
~~::· 
; t"·­
.., ··-~.
----•'_...... 
-..
·-----...·~. 
~"'··
---···· 
__.........ii!fl'aJ'S 
-···­

~: :~.-~
SHOWROOM 
~> ·<~
•::::,:i£C;,:roAM-830PM~~
W//~SAT 9 AM-5 PM 

N'me brand small appliances, jewelry, housewares, toys, tools, gifts, Tape Recorders, Stereos_ 
. p .
General Electric, Westinghouse, Sunbeam, anasomc, Presto, Rival, Waltham, Jules Jurgenson, Hallmark, Diamonds, Gruem, Helbros ! 
Pick up your FREE catalog located at: 

254 Dixie Way North, U. S. 31, Roseland. 
Ph-272-1146 
UNIQUE CUSTOMER SERVICES 
Phone and order ­
If we do not feature 
Pick up or free delivery 
merchandise you desire 
1n our catalog or showroom, we will quote you wholesale price and order any brand, any item. 
• ''~ 
~ 
·~ 
~ 
:~ 
·..-~ 
""'"~
;..::::;... 
·:;~
-~~ 
-_....,.,._.,. 
.•...­
....~ 
.......-, 
··-~,._, 
question. The first, submitted by an independent group of faculty members, dubbed the "Runde Plan" after Fr. Raymond Runde, of the education department, is presently under consideration by a group of Notre Dame and St. Muy's faculty members to evaluate its feasibility. 
PRE-LAW SOCIETY -Southern Methodist University School of Law is scheduling interviews for prospective students on Thursday, November 12 in room 205 Busi­ness Bldg. Sign up for appoint­ments outside room 101 O'Shaughnessy_  
PRE-LAW SOCIETY -Washing­ton and Lee University School of Law is scheduling interviews for prospective students on Thursday, November 12 in room 205 Busi­ness Bldg. Sign up for appoint­ments outside room 101 O'Shaughnessy.  
WHO IS KATHY HESSERT? Kathy Hessert hopefully is the next vice-president of this year's freshman class of SL Mary's. Although it may be unorthodox, I am not running with any of the candidates for the presidency, but alone. To me, the vice-presidency is not primarily an auxiliary office, and 1 am not going to treat it as such. Contrary to popular belief,the vice-presidency is more than just an honored 90sition that fills the shoes of the president in case of emergencies. I didn't choose to run for this office for emergency service only but for continuous service­emergency and otherwise. I chose it to serve my class, YOU, the best way I can_ First, by taking care of the particulars including the heading of committees and especially by being there when YOU need me_ I'll be there first for you to vent your legitimate complaints and second to do something about them, so that our class will learn to work together, and thirdly to take over when necessary the job of the presidency and fully support the person that holds that job. Simply my platform is one of working together with PRIDE as the Class of '74 to reach our highest potential as one. So vote for me-and Come On, Carre On, Let's Work Together!  
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College_ Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Ob­server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556_ Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.  


~T~hu~r~sd~ay~·~N~o~ve~m~b~er~5~·~1~97~0~-------------------------------~J.l~ ()Jtr~~ Page 3 

Opinions vary on S.G. funds 
. . funds set aside for the usc of 


You've reached the point of decision and
by Kevm McGdl the i~dividual halls. This sum 

maybe things look a little confusing. Have 
wouicl be distributed from the 

you ever stopped to consider a career in
There is presently a great deal 
government?
Student Government Treasury

of division among student through a board composed of
leaders as to the best method of both student government and
securing funds from the Student hall officials and administration
Government for the individual representatives which would
halls. Student Body President judge the equitableness of each
David Krashna promised last 
hall's requests. 

year to return a large amount of the student activity fees to the 
At Monday's meeting of thehalls. As of now, however, no Hall Presidents' Council, Buz money has been given to any of Imhoff, President of Badin Hall,the halls, and only a minimal proposed that the halls should

amount has been given to the John Barkett HPC Chainnan
approach the Senate for fundsHall Presidents Council. Two en masse rather than indivi­halls, Stanford and St. Ed's, have 

ROTC Reminder 
dually. He said las night that thissubmit ted budgets, both of proposal's defeat was due towhich have been turned down. 

misunderstanding, and that most College-bound high school of the members actually favor seniors wishing to apply forBefore this year, the greatest 

this position. Last year's An scholarships in the Armypart of the President's Council Tostal was largely financed by a Reserve Officers Training Corpsfunds have gone to sponsor An per-capita tax on each hall. (AROTC) program wereTostal, a spring festival. Stan­"This year," Imhoff remarked, reminded of the December 31ford's request this year, how­"most halls are operating mar­deadline today by Colonel John ever, is for money to improve ginally or in the red, and they J. Lavin, Notre Dame professorthe basement of the hall. 

couldn't meet such a tax." He of military science. feels that the Hall Presidents' Scholarship applications and

Denis Conroy, the Student 
We build Federal buildings...maintain the
Council must secure the neces­additional information may beGovernment Treasurer, cites the 

National Archives...provide the Government's 
sary money from the Student obtained at the Notre Damecut of two dollars in the student 

transportation and communications network
Senate. office. 

...supply its needs...and dispose of what it
activity fee which reduced the 
doesn't need. We are the business arm of the Federal Government. 
·treasury by $12,000 as a major 
reason for refusing money to the 
CSU to meet again

halls. "Student Government is in 
We're progressive...we're diversified...and we
rather poor financial shape," he After a week of rest, the proach toward the student in­
care. We're doing our part to combat air
said, "and we are presently 
pollution...to help minority businessmen...to
Committee for Social Under­volves the total educationaltrying to get out of debt. The 

rebuild cities.
standing will resume meetings experience, is attempting to money must be distributed Monday, Nov. 8, to expand and clarify the "synthesis bet ween according to priorities, and there 

We're on the move!
clarify their published report on the academic and non-academic are other things of more impor­campus life. orientation on campus." 

Stop the confusion and go talk to the GSA
tance than the halls." He said 
The report, which ran the The hope according to Tim 

recruiter. Ask about the opportunities at the
that if money to individual halls 
gamut of social interaction on Connor is that a realistic adult 

General Services Administration.
was distributed on a per-capita 
campus, from Dining Halls to a can be evolved by the ND-SMC · basis, halls that don't really need future Student Mall on campus, community; one who has ex­

I--------,
the funds, such as Flanner and 
will be submitted to the Board perienced not only academic 

Campus Interviews I
Grace, would receive the greatest 
of Trustees on Dec. I. It has development, but also social 

I I
portions. Distributing money by 
already been presented to the interaction. The result will hope­a screening board to the smaller 

1 

NOV.I I
Student Affairs Committee of fully be a person who, in thehalls which need it most, 

IL See your placement office. _jl
the Trustees last Thursday. The common circumstances relatedhowever, would not be eq uita­reception was termed "favor­to the social being, knows howble. 

able" by committee members. to act and relate to his fellow men and women. 

The President of the Hall The Student Government President's Council, John committee, headed by Tim Con­
Pre·Law Society · Catholic Uni· 


sa
Barkett feels that the Krashna nor, will expand and revise their 
varsity School of Law, Prof. 

administration should stay by> recommendations and the 1 
Ferann Dutile is scheduling inter­

its ~romise and should cut back reasoning that supports them. 
views for prospective students on 
Monday, Nov. 9, in Room 205

appropriations to other activities The hope is to present a well 
Equal Opportunity Employer
Business Building. Signups outside Room 101 O'Shaughnessy. 

in favor of the halls. He would developed case to backup the 
like to see a sum of money, report. separate from the An Tostal The committee, whose ap­
the NO-SMC STUDIO THEATRE 

ONCE AGAIN
presents 
THURBER A LA CARTE 

THE AMERICA COFFEEHOUSE
a chamber theatre presentation ofworks by 
James Thurber 
NOV. 13 & 14 at 8:30, 15 at 7:30PM Little Theatre -Moreau Hall -SMC 

OPENS ITS DOORS 
Tickets: $1.00 Season Subscribers FREE For information or reservations call 284-4176 

TO AU GIRlS FREE • • • 
Need a home? 

FEATURING 
You probably haven't considered buying one while you're in school. But this week­end, we can sell students needing off­campus housing a home for as low as $3,895. It's a mobile home-fully fur­

FRIDAY 
·ALL GIRLS 
nished, complete with major appliances. No more money down the drain. No more 

AND FREE­
people upstairs. You'll have a new and comfortable home, privacy, and most im­

IATUIIDAY ALLOTHERI 
portant, an investment ... all for monthly payments that are probably low.er than 

NICHTI-$1.00 
what you're now paying for rent. 
8:30 
Sound too good? Come see us this week­end during our open house. 
You'll be surprised. 

(ROCK CONCERT) Greenbrook Estates 
Mayflower and Sample South Bend 
Mobile Home Sales and Lot Rentals 

-FOOD AND DRINKS AVAILABLE ­
Page 4 THE OBSERVER 
Thursday, November 5, 1970 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper GLEN S. CORSO, Editor-in-Chief JOHN E. KNORR, Executive Editor BRUCE RIECK, Business Manager f.OUNDEO NOVEMBER ~. 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Ecclesiastical Censorship 

A bit of curiosity, under the guise of an editorial appeared in the diocesan newspaper, Our Sunday Visitor, yesterday. The editorial decried the presence of, and remarks by, Ti-Grace Atkinson, women's lib advocate. This attitude is not particularly remarkable considering the fact that Miss Atkinson made rather liberal use of obscenities in her talk and made vulgar references to the Virgin Mary. A certain amount of outrage and shock at such a display is to be expected, especially taking into consideration the supposedly "Catholic" nature of this University. 
However, the frontal assault upon the open speaker's policy which the University 
operates by and the sly innuendo directed towards The Observer are totally uncalled for. 
When the writer says "We hope responsible persons on the campus have now decided 
that it is time to call a halt as to whom may be invited to speak and what can be said on 
the campus...remembering that Jecency and truth may not be ignored," he is exhibiting 
the same contemptable narrow thinking that has so characterized some of the clergy of 
the Catholic church for many years. Merely because one speaker offends his sense of 
propriety the writer suggests that the unive~;sity return to the dark ages of requiring prior 
approval for each and every speaker. While this may not constitute a threat in the hands 
of a noble and enlightened person, there is little guarantee that this institution will always 
be governed by such a man. 

The present open speaker's policy is an intelligent and rational doctrine which was 
arrived at only after much thought and discussion. To contend that it should be repealed 
after it has enabled a host of distinguished people free access to the campus to express 
their views is nothing short of an abomination. 

The unsubtle vilification of The Observer, claiming that it "faithfully pressed on," 
despite the vulgar content of the talk is the remark of a person who is afraid of the truth. 
The Observer printed several o bscenities uttered by Miss Atkinson in order to accurately 
portray the speech of a vindictive female, nothing more. 

This ludicrous attack upon the University is not surprising from such quarters. Our Sunday Visitor has a history of picayune sniping at the community. To attack Miss Atkinson for her reprehensible statements is entirely right and proper t:or a "Catholic" paper. But to claim that because of her speech Notre Dame has betrayed the " ...prayers and confidence of thousands of Notre Dame alumni who have sacrificed so much to send their sons to Notre Dame in the belief that their sons will thus attain the ultimate in a Catholic education." is laughable. 
The truth is that Notre Dame is striving to become a Christian University in every sense 
of the word. Though it has many shortcomings, Notre Dame has been characterized by a 
willingness to accept change, a willingness to affect it and a tolerant attitude towards 
those of different views. This same attitude is sadly lacking in Our Sunday Visitor. 

Miss Atkinson's talk was an unfortunate blot upon the otherwise exemplary character 
of the speakers policy. This paper has disagreed with the Student Union Academic 
Connission regarding the balance of views expressed by the various lecturers. However, 
we have never suggested that any restrictions be placed on SUAC for the procurement of 
speakers. 

We can only hope that some day in the near future the editors of Our Sunday Visitor 
will reflect the same rational viewpoint. Until such time we can only grieve for the readers 
of the publication who must suffer through such senseless harangues: 
The Paperboys. 
Night Editor: Jim "the 03!1\1(!" Graif Headlines: Dan "the man" Nye Layout Design: Jim "MVP" Farrington Not a damn thing: Celeste and Ingrid Layout: "Reubie" Anderson 
Night Controller: "Just plain Harold" Taegel 
Myst "Hook 'em Horns" Abell 


Actually, the only bomb threat which concerns us comes on 
third down and long yardage. 

Bill Corter and John Knorr :::======================================== 
======:=:::=::::~,;;:::::::::=======================: Abortive thoughts 
(This column is a reply to the letters which appeared last Thun. concerning the abortion ad which the Observer ran. John Knorr, and Bill Carter are Executive Editor, and Managing Editor respectively, and this column is reflective of their opinions and attitudes only, and in no way reflect the. opinions of the Observer as a whole.) · 
The letters that poured in from all circles criticizing the "ethical" 
judgement of the Observer for allowing the abortion counselling ad 
to be run on its pages all displayed the short-sightedness that usually 
springs from getting carried away with the emotion of an issue rather 
than rationally interpreting its implications. Objectivity is the code 
of journalism. The question of the ethics of abortion is irrelevant to 
the purpose of a newspaper-it is not the journalist's duty to make 
subjective judgements on the morality of an issue. His duty is to· 
present" the reader with the information necessary to make his own 
judgements. The writers so outraged by the abortion ad apparently 
feel there is some kind of objective morality present in the abortion 
issue that should dictate the exclusion of ads of this nature in the 
Observer. What they seem to be calling for is a kind of legislation of 
morality which would be entirely inconsistent with the role of a 
newspaper. It is not the purpose of any newspaper to play the censor 
in order to protect its readers from internal conflict that may result 
from the reading of something they didn't know or didn'twantto 
believe existed. 

The Observer did not consider the ad to be in bad taste, nor did it 
violate any civil law. The ad was paid for on the same scale as all 
Observer ads and it was run as such without comment. It would be 
as foolish to accuse the paper of tacit endorsement of abortion by 
the running of this ad as it would to imply the Observer believes 
everyone should run out and join the Paulist_ Priests because it runs 
their ad entreating vocations. 

From some quarters comes the cry that the service proposed by the ad was not one of a reputable nature. Further, these self-ap­pointed critics claim, the Observer should have fully investigated this service before running the ad. In answer to this, first; we did not solicit the ad, it was sent by NEAS (National Educational Adver­tising Service) with whom we have had e,xtensive dealings with prior to this advertisement, and who sends these ads to all major college papers. The standards of their ads have always been of quality and name-associated corporations and interest groups, which led us to believe that this ad was no different. Therefore, it was run, as all NEAS ads which in the future are. sent to us and are in good taste will be run. Second, it is thoroughly ridiculous to expect the Observer to investigate all its' ads. This would mean reviewing all movies before they were advertised, as well as entailing thorough research into such radical movements as the Paulist Priests, the Marists Brothers, or VISTA' 
Each one of the writers who maligned the journalistic·standards of the Observer over the printing of the ad has obviously already made a personal ·decision on the abortion question. There should be no reason then why they should feel threatened by the ad nor should they object to others freely making the same decision for themselves after examining all the information they can find on the issue. One's personal ethics are just that and no more, and should not be allowed to cloud the basic questions of an issue for others. To another conscience, the alternative of a safe abortion in New York may make more sense than other, perhaps more dangerous, alternatives. That would be for the individual to investigate and decide-not a newspaper. Self-righteousness is not a journalistic virtue. 
The simplistic solutions the letters call for all add up to something close to sanctioning ignorance. Ignorance may be bliss for some, but we feel that no responsible newspaper can subscribe to that creed. 

Thursday, November 5, 1970 THE OBS£RfJER. Page 5 
----~------~----------------------~--------~--~~~~~~ 
Rev. Robert GriHfn 
Fathers and Sons-
black sheep and papiolatrists 
Dick appeared in my Chaplain's office last year, hippily-jeaned and jacketed, with long, very curly hair, looking like a contemporary arts' festival version of a young, mod Christ. As a youngster who had briefly attended the minor seminary located until 1967 in Holy Cross Hall, he was no stranger to the land of the lineback lotus-eaters; and mutual friends from Moreau had dragged him onto the Keenan premises for me to gape at as a chap admirably detached from the folk-ways of the Silent Majority. Don't mention Agnew, my friends said, or the Eisenhower grandchild, or he'll toss his alienated cookies all over the rug. 
He certainly did not sound like the conventional victim of middle class morality; but despite the dad: warnings, Dick did not spend his visit cutting snippets from Old Glory of the symbol for peace. Instead, he spoke of his life as a student at the Universtiy of Michigan; of his draft classification as a conscien­tious objector; and of his family, and his . achievement of being the black sheep among the eleven children of his father and mother. 
As an old ex-black sheep of the family 

myself, I felt drawn in sympathy to this 
boy who had forfeited his father's pride 
and drawn lines of care upon his mother's 
brow because of behaviour aberrant to his 
family's traditions. In the summer after 
high school, I had sinned against my New 
England heritage and my upbringing in 
Tom Leolty 
the sects practising the Protestant ethic by becoming a Catholic without prior consultation with my parents. My conver­sion to the errors of Rome may sound, in this sometime City of the Blessed Sacrament, as though the Holy Ghost had been doing his homework in the suburbs; but at the time, it disgusted my relatives, it was as alienating to friends as though I had become a drunkard, and it almost literally broke my father's heart. He died in December of my first year of college. My final memories of Dad were of our September farewell, when he stood alone, weeping, on the station platform in Portland, Maine, waiting for the train to pull out with his son, the Roman Catholic. The next time I saw him was at his funeral, a week before Christmas. My credentials as a black sheep may not be impeccable; but among aunts living in the fishing villages of Maine during the decade of the Forties, libertines and tn~~nots were more admirable as neohews than were papiolatrists, and I think ·they would have preferred to see me hanged for sodomy than to hear I was making the , Nine First Fridays. 
It was his hair that turned his parents off, Dick said; and of course, they thought he dressed like a hippie, and they objected because he wouldn't support Mr. Nixon's war. They told him: if you must look and act like a peace freak, don't bother coming home. So he hadn't bothered going home; 'he wasn't sure he would-ever bother going home again . except sometimes, to see his very little brothers and sisters, even if his mother did fear he might corrupt them. 

His parents had wanted to be known as the perfect Catholic family; but Dick had told them: ''I'm sorry I can't contribute 
to your image as another Joe and Rose Kennedy," and he sighed as he told me this, as though he were being pressured into a vocation as a martyred president or a slain senator or as a victim of incidents on the bridge at Chippaquiddick. · 
"If you have eleven children," he said, "the neighbors think you're crazy. Soall the kids have to turn out to be the Beautiful People, to, prove that the parents are smarter than the neighbor­hood. But if one of the kids gets out of line, he fouls up the image, and fouled-up images don't win Parents-of-the-year awards from the P.T.A." 
I spoke to him of the close relationship that should bind a family together. He said: "Close relationships carl t exist, if you don't have parents. Us kids never even had a father. We just had a manager to run things, like the head guy down at the A&P. 
There was no way to convince this boy who looked so much like an Irish Christ that anybody in the world really loved him. I mentioned Jesus, but he had transferred his allegiances to Buddha. I told him he should find friends; he said that friendship was just a game people played to take advantage of his good nature. I said: "If you're ever in jail, or in sickness or despair, give me a call." He answered: "What's in it for you?" I said: "Forgive your parents," and he said, 
"Screw them forever." 
I tried to tell him of the pain that can lie across the heart for twenty-five years, because death has intervened between a father's forgiveness and a child's rebel­lion. 
"That is why I can never think of my own Dad without sadness," I said, "and sometimes even today, my brother and sister mention the sorrow I brought down on our father's head, because I was too intolerant of my beliefs to be gentle when I told him I was going to become a priest." 
"The difference between us," Dick said, "is that you always knew your father loved you." 
I have never seen Dick since the anernoon ot that conversation; but he wrote me once from Ann Arbor, where, he said, he was going hungry in order to get money to buy records. I thought of sending him a check, but I decided not to. College kids become very cynical when they haven't always known that their fathers love them. 
Interview with Senator Vance Hartke 
Thanks to WSND, the following is an informal interview with Indiana Senator Vance fbrtke. This reporter accompanied Senator Hartke to St. Joe's airport, last week after a T. V. debate at the WNDU studios between Sen. Hartke and his Republican opponent for the Senate Congressman Richard Roudebush. Unfortunately, due to the Senator's tight schedule, this interview is rather short and perhaps not as pursuant to certain issues as W! would prefer. 
OBSERVER: Senator, do you consider 

yourself one of the radical liberals 
Vice-President Agnew has been attacking? 
.HART~E: ~e m~st remember the 

VH.:e-Pres1dent 1s makmg partisan Repub­
lica~ attacks, the likes of which this 
nat~on _has ~ever seen before. The type 
wh1ch IS bemg generally condemned by 
people ~ho are concern~d with. _the 
preservatiOn of th~ Amencan political 
system as we know 1t. All I can do IS hope 
the Vice-President will return to his 
duties of presiding over the senate. 
OBSERVER: Senator Hartke what is 

your attitude toward the Cbio State 
Grand Jury indictments of several stu­
dents and teachers from Kent State 
University, last week? 
HARTKE: I am not familiar with the 

actual facts of the indictment anymore 
than you or any individual who is not in a 
position to listen to the evidence. The 
report of the Commission on Campus 
Unrest did severely critisize the President 
of the United States for failing to offer 
moral leadership. My advice though in 
regard for students is entirely different. If 
they are upset about what happened at 
Kent State and what is happening on the 
campuses, their way to answer is to 
participate in the political process by 
participating in this election, and I would 
hope that they would do just that. And 
that they· would make their feelings and 
their influence felt where it can be felt 
the most. That is in a political campaign, 
where you make the ultimate decision as to the individuals who are going to be in control of the country. You must recognize that our elected President Richard Nixon has been singled out by his own commission as one of the participating and-pre-cipitating causes of Kent &ate and other campus disorders. 
OBSERVER: Senator, students this fall are really getting turned-off by the hard work involved in political campaign­ing. Do you see this as the only way for students to participate· in the political system? 
HARTKE: I can only express my hope that those individuals who are genuinely concerned with their future, recognize that the future of this society is going to be determined, governmentally, by those individuals who are elected. The way to make their influence felt, the way to make their participation meaningful is to participate in a place where it means 
something. That is in helping to bring out the vote on election day, for those individuals that they feel are capable and representative of their viewpoints, whether that viewpoint is mine or my opponent's. They should not opt out and not do anything at all. In other words, I
1 
would feel that an individual who participated against me at least took the difficult road of participation. After all there are a lot of difficult roads in life there is alot of hard work involved i~ almost anything you do. I would hope that we could encourage the students in these last remaining days to participate 
more. 
hope that we can complete it. 
OBSERVER: Senator, both yours and Congressman Roudebush's T.V. and radio spots have become much more personal in the last couple of weeks. You might say they are being directed more at the opponent rather than the opposition. Is this just normal campaign procedure, are 
both of you getting a l{ttle more desperate in the last few weeks, or what? 
HARTKE: All of my campaign ads are dealing with issues. They are dealing with the record. That certainly is an item for discussion in this campaign. They are not personal attacks upon him. They deal with the question of the John Birch Society. It's a radical right wing organiza­tion which has been condemned by the former chairman of the Republican National Committee. He said that he feared that organization and he was very 
much dismayed by the fact that they were attempting to use the Republican party to take their ideas and their programs to the people of the nation. There is no question that my opponent comes from that group of people, just no question about it. And I think that I should be known, whenever a man is a member of a group which is a right wing organization. It certainly is something which is important to the people, because it gives a definite understanding as to his philosophy of government. Now there are two members of the John Birch Society in Congress today. They made no attempt to hide his affiliation with an organiza­tion of this kind. 

OBSERVER: Do you expect, Senator, that President Nixon's campaign tour will have any significant effect in the election of Republican candidates across the country? 
HARTKE: think that President Nixon himself, has answered that-. He does not anticipate any concrete positive results from his tour. I· think that what he's doing is building his own political fences by accomodating the local Repub­lican organizations. In Indiana, of course, many of the Republicans are so upset about the type of candidate they have nominated that they are going to be joining me in this campaign. 
OBSERVER: Senator, the party of the president has almost always lost congres­sional seats during the off-year elections. There is however, a very real chance that the Republican party may gain seats, especially in the senate. Do you think the President has a chance of capturing a majority in either the House of Senate? 
HARTKE: No, I do not think he has any chance, and I certainly hope not. 
What do you think about l Sex every ten minutes! 
LOUISVILLE, KY.-A psychologist says most people -except the young ­think about religion twice as many times a day as they think about sex. 
Dr. Paul Cameron of the University of Louisville based his conclusion on a sur­vey of 3,4I6 persons in five cities, Louis­ville, Evansville. Ind., Detroit, Los An­
geles and Santa Monica, Calif. 
He asked whateach-was thinking about in the previous five minutes and reported these findings: 
-Young adults thing about religion once every 25 minutes; middle-aged groups about once every 15 minutes, and people over 65 once every I 0 minutes. 
-Young adults, those I 8 to 2 5, think about sex at least once in any I 0-minute period; middle-aged people at least every 35 minutes, and people over 65 once an hour. 
Cameron said the study failed to sub­stantiate a popular notion that "young people nowadays are thinking more about world and social problems than their 
parents are or ever did." 
Cameron also discovered that the mid­dle-aged appear to think about their pets as often as they think about sex, a state of mind which "indicates a phony, strange, inhuman and time-consuming re­lationship with household animals." 
He said housewives apparently spend 30 per cent of their time thinking about housework while working women devote I 0 per cent of their office time to the same subject. He said he made the survey on his own "just because it's interesting to know what people think about." 
:::::::::'::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~: ' 
1 Sex on Sunday ~j\j
I I
WSNO 

The FM station of WSND (88.9 on the 
dial) will present a lecture at 7:00 p.m. 
Sunday evening on ··Interpersonal !ela­
tions and Psychosexual Development" by · 
Dr. Haskell Coplin, Professor of Psycho­
logy at Amherst College and head of the 
Student Counselling Services at Amherst: 
The le-cture is part ot a senes offered every Sunday by WSND. The lectures are tapes from lectures given at various Boston colleges by Dr.' Coplin and a gynecologist, Dr. Phillip Sarell. Lectures on future Sundays will treat "The Psychology Qf Sexual Iesponse," "Preg­nancy and Childbirth," "Contraception," and "Abortion." The producer says, "At no point was any question 'ducked.' The intended audience for this series is adult. The producer recommends age I6 and up (18 for cautious stations.) 

ATTENTION: OBSERVER STAFF 
Staff Meeting Thursday 4:30 
In the Office 
For the purpose of electing a representative to the editorial board. All those interested should submit their names to Editor Glen Corso by midnight Wednesday. 

Why isn't a big companylike General Electric doing moreto clean up
the environment? 
How much can one company do to clean up the environment? 
Until the problems of pollution are under control-until its effects are reversed-no company can ever be doing "enough/' 
What follows is a listing of things General Electric is doing to ease environmental problems. Some are new. Some are as old as twenty-five years. 
Should we be doing more? Yes, of course. Every company should. These are only a few of the more important ones. But every day sees us take more steps in many more directions. .,. General Electric is working toward a process that will use bacteria to convert garbage into a high-protein food for cattle. One possible answer to the mounting garbage problem. .,. Modern, pollution-free mass transit from General Electric is carrying more and more commuters into cities without their cars. .,. GE pioneered the development of nuclear power plants. A nuclear plant makes electricity without making smoke. While there is still 
the problem of thermal effects, it's being tackled on a site-by-site basis and can be solved. But for now, increasing demands for power can be met without an increasing output of air pollution. .,. GE has developed a waste­treatment unit to significantly reduce the water pollution from ships and boats. .,. We have been chosen by the federal government to solve the problem of jet-engine noise for the aviation industry. Our present jet is already quieter than those on the passenger planes of the Sixties, and yet it's nearly three times as powerful. .,. GE designed and built an undersea habitat called "Tektite." Several teams of scientists have lived in the habitat while studying coral­reef ecology and ocean pollution. .,. We're designing an earth-resources satellite which will be used for a worldwide survey of the oceans. A first step toward the ultimate control of water pollution. .,. Our newest jet airplane engine, 
for the DC-10, is designed to be smoke-free. Of course, there's more to jet exhaust than just smoke. And our goal is to one day make them run totally clean. .,. General Electric makes high­temperature vortex incinerators for 
GENERAL~-ELECTRIC 
'-~ 

WASHINGTON (UPI) -Re­publicans and Democrats both found something to cheer about yesterday, but it was clear that the Democrats had thwarted President Nixon's off year cam­paign blitz with critical election gains that brightened their hopes for 1972. 
The key was a dramatic Democratic comeback in the governorships, strengthening the party's organizational power base for the next presidential election and its influence over redrawing of Congressional and state legislative districts for the next I 0 years. 
The President's political strategists claimed victory in holding traditional midterm losses to a minimum and build­ing a workable majority of Senators more responsive to White Honse policies. 
----------------------------------~ 
the complete combustion of many types of solid waste. Complete combustion drastically reduces the amount of leftover ash, as well as virtually eliminating air pollutants. 
The problems of the environ­ment are many. And some of the solutions will be difficult and " costly. But, as you can see, we're working on them. 
Why are we running this ad? We're running this ad, and others like it, to tell you the things General Electric is doing about the problems of man and his environment today . The problems concern us because they concern you. We're a business and you are potential customers and employees. But there's another, more important reason. These problems will affect the future of this country and this planet. We have a stake in that future. As businessmen. And, simply, as people. We invite your comments. Please write to General Electric, 570 Lexington Ave., New York, N.Y. 
10022. 
But Democratic National Chairman Lawrence F. O'Brien said this was discounted by "nothing short of a fantastic Democratic gain," particularly among governors where his party regained majority control. 
"Thrcrughout the heartland of this nation," O'Brien said, "middle Americans revolted and threw the Republicans out of statehouses they had controlled for years." 
The Republicans went into Tuesday's election with a 32-18 edge in governors, and holding the seven most populous states except Texas. 

The Democrats held Texas while ousting Republicans in the crucial states of Ohio, Pennsyl­vania and Florida, for a firm net gain of I 0 statehouses and a narrow lead in Alaska. Repub­licans took I 2 of the 35 
Thursday, November 5, 1970 
governorships at stake and were 
leading in Michigan and R:wde 
Island. 
In the Senate, where Nixon 
and Vice-President Spiro T. 
Agnew concentrated their cam­
paign efforts, the Republicans 
made a net gain of one seat -six 
short of majority control -with 
Indiana's contest between Sen. 
Vance Hartke, Democrat and 
his GOP challenger, ' Rep. 
Richard Roudebush, still un­
decided. 
The lineup was clouded by 
election of a Conservative Party 
candidate in New York who will 
vote Republican and an indepen­
dent in Virginia, Sen. Harry F. 
Byrd, Jr., who was expected to 
vote Democratic, when it comes 
to organizing the Senate in 
January. 
The Democrats increased their 
grip on the House with a firm 
net gain of six seats, with races 
still undecided in Alaska, Ken­
tucky, Massachusetts, and North 
Dakota. The indicated lineup for 
the 92nd Congress convening in 
January was 255 Democrats and 
180 Republicans. 
Despite their enormous com­
mitment of money and political 
prestige in behalf of GOP 
candidates, the Nixon Agnew 
team effort paid off in only 
about 40 per cent of the Senate 
and guvernatorial races. 
Of the 21 target states elect­
ing a governor, senator or both 
in which they campaigned, Re­
publicans gained eight senators 
to the Democrats' 12, not 
counting Indiana. 
Gain governorships 
Of the I 5 guvernatorial con­
tests which involved the White 
House team, the GOP gained five 
and the Democrats I 0. 
Although Nixon barnstormed 
through 22 states and Agnew 
visited 32, and the Republicans 
outspent the Democrats by five 
to one, O'Brien said the results 
favored Democrats in the long 
range prospects for 1972. 
"The presidency was won ­
and lost -in I 968 in precisely 
those areas where Democrats 
scored their most impressive 
victories on Tuesday, in the 
South, the Midwest, the South­
west and the Far West," O'Brien 
said. 
"We have, in short, recaptured 
the electoral base that is vital to 
winning the White House in 
1972." 
The GOP ousted Democratic 
governors in Connecticut and 
Tennessee but the Democrats 
seized statehouse control also in 
Nebraska, Arkansas, Minnesota, 

South Dakota, Wisconsin, Idaho, · New Mexico, Oklahoma and 
Nevada . 
News office 
An extension of the Observer 
office is opening up at St. Mary's 
College in Room 128, Madeleva 
Hall. 
SMC News Editor, Jeanne 
Sweeney, said "this should really 
facilitate our operations between 
the two campuses." 
"Hopefully," Sweeney said, "with its location in Madeleva Hall our communication with the students and faculty will be better." 
"Now that SMC news cover­age has gotten above the mere subsistence level, we needed a central office to which all SMC news would funnel," added Miss Sweeney. 

"I hoJ;e especially the faculty will now take advantage of our office and provide us with more news." said Sweeney. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Page 7 
Thursday, Novem~r___l?-'--1 ~0 
Happiness is getting a quarterback 
by Terry Shields Observer Sports Editor 
Walt Patulski is basically a happy person. When you meet him, his huge hand pumps a friendly hello and he has that big grin the suggests nothing but a contented person is behind it. 
However it might be hard to convince people like Maurie Daigneau, Mike Rasmussen, Chuck Piebes and a number of other college quarterbacks that the big defensive end is a friendly and happy person. It is they who are the subject of Walter's hunt for happiness. It is when he has his huge mitts on the opposing qb that Patulski is most happy. 
Walt explains this himself. "I feel that my primary job is really twofold. I have to contain all running plays and force the runner into the middle of the field and, of course, I have to get to the quarterback on pass plays." 
Walt has the same conception with this season's performance as does Clarence Ellis. "I really don't think I'm learning that much with every game as I did sophomore year. My basic prob­lem now is trying to maintain some degree of consistencey. That's the real important thing." 
The 6 foot 5 inch 240 -lb. Syracuse, New York native feels that the person who best helps him solve this consistency prob­lem is defensive line coach Joe Yonto. "Coach Yonto is a very dedicated man. He has a lot of patience and he spends a great deal of time with each player. He keeps us loose sometimes in practice with some joking around, but when the game comes he is all business. Every once in a while I actually am scared of him." 
At Christian Brothers Aca­
. demy in Syracuse, Walt was a fullback. Now the only time he can get to touch the ball is if he swipes it from an opposing player. Walt has some feeling about the switch. "Sure I miss carrying the ball. But I feel that I have made the transition okay 
and I'll probably be a defensive end for the rest of my career." Switching from offense to 
Sports Editor's 
Call From Ara 
by Jim Eggert Ohio State Lantern Sports Editor 

Editor's Note: This column is Jim Eggert's (OHIO STATE LANTERN Sports Editor) clarification of his column which was re-printed in THE OBSERVER yesterday. 
Who says sports isn't controversial? 
Editorial and political writers have told me I am in the right end of the newspaper business because a sports writer doesn't get into trouble -people read an entire newspaper to see death, crime and controversy, while they turn to the sports pages to read of men's accomplishments. 
This may be true, but a column I wrote for Friday's Lantern has stirred up a lot of criticism. I have been receiving letters all week that slapped my hands for downgrading one of the nation's most respected college football coaches. 
The criticism reached a peak Tuesday afternoon when I received a call from the coach himself. 
"Jim Eggert?" 
"Yes sir." 
"This is ka Parseghian at Notre Dame. I've got a copy of your article from the Ohio State Lantern here." 
I didn't have to ask what the article was about. It was obvious that he received a copy of a column in which I attacked him for statements he presumably made in connection with challenging Ohio State to a late season contest. 
"Wheredidyou get your information?" Parseghian asked. 
I explained that I heard on news reports that he had put out a challenge to Ohio State and followed that up by contacting the Notre Dame publicity department when I couldn't reach him for comment. 
A source there informed me that Parseghian had made a statement to the effect that he would like to challenge Ohio State to a game fo; the end of this season. 
"That statement never came out of this office," Parseghian said. "What I did say was that I favored a wild card game at the end of the season, as suggested by the NCAA. Your saying that my suggestion is ridiculous is saying that the NCAA's proposal is ridiculous." 
I told him that I fully agreed with the proposal but that 1 was disturbed by the fact that a coach of his caliber would try to shame Ohio State out of the No. I national ranking, as many sportswriters have done, by saying the Bucks play an easy schedule and should play better teams. 
"I just called Woody Hayes and explained that my comments were taken out of context," the coach said. "The New York reporter that published those quotes took them out of context and blew them out of proportion. 
"I simply said that I favored the proposal to have a wild card game at the end of the season and cited Ohio State and Nojre Dame as an example, since they are two top-ranked teams. Why we've both got a lot of games left and anything could happen before the end of the season. Nobody is in the position to submit a challenge, and as I said, I didn't. We've wanted to play Ohio State for years." 
I gave my apologies to Parseghian for relying on news reports that turned out to be altered and information from Notre Dame's public relations department, but emphasized that people who try to ridicule a team for a schedule that was made up ten years ago aren't going to change a thing and are out of place. 
Mr. Parseghian, sir (and I say this now with respect), I as much as anyone hope you get your game with Ohio State before 1982. 
defense wasn't the only problem that Patulski encountered after leaving Christian Brothers. He was very undecided as to which college he should attend. Walt stated, "I really couldn't make up my mind between staying at home and attending Syracuse or going away to school. I finally decided on Notre Dame because of the great opportunity to play football and more importantly because it was a Catholic school. I kind of like the way things were run in high school and I figured Notre Dame would be similar." 
Lately everyone on the team is feeling pressure from the polls and some individuals are being touted for All-America mention. Walt had something to say about both subjects. "The whole team follows the polls. Everyone is really interested in what's going on with the. There isn't much you can do though. You can watch your team go up and down in them and the only thing th~t happens is that you get mad. They're still a good thing though." 
As for All-America, Walt said, "I start to wonder about these All-America things. It seems like the 11ward goes to the guy who makes a big play once in a while rather than the one who is consistent and dependable. All­America is 99% publicity. Even so, there is no chance of "All" tabs on different ND players breaking up the morale of this ball club." 
The big end explained this last statement a little further. "What I mean is, this is an extra­ordinarily close group on the 
PITTSBURGH, PA. --Where do you begin to put the pieces back together? That's the problem at Pitt this week. 
"We begin with everything," Carl DePasqua says simply. "It's back to fundamentals. We didn't block at Syracuse. We didn't tackle. We didn't cover anyone. We didn't get any performance out of anybody." 
The play at Stracuse ':is certainly cause for worry, but now ranks second in the headache department to this Saturday's opponent -Not~e Dame. 
"I go into Saturday's game with a heavy heart," DePasqua says softly. "There's no question Notre Dame is the best team we've faced to date. They've got the best offensive team in the country. I can tell you this. they don't make many mistakes." 
Where does all this leave Pitt, a team that had taken a five-game winning streak and the top ranking in the East into the Stracuse game? 
"If this is any kind of a team, w'ith any kind of pride, they've got to bounce back," the Panther boss says. "That's the name of the game--pride." 
It will take plenty of pride, and plenty of bouncing back. In destroying six opponents this year, the Irish have averaged a little better than 540 yards per game, tops in the country. They are led by Heisman Trophy candidate Joe Thiesmann at quarterback who has his sights zeroed on a nnmber of all-time Irish records. Theismann this year has completed 80-126 passes (.635) for 11 TDs. 
His main target is end Tom Gatewood, who leads the country in receptions per game Ferris is next with 445 yards with 49 for 754 yards and seven (3.7). scores. The leading groundgainer The senior pair has taken over is halfback Ed Gulyas who has 

eighth and ninth places in hulled for 369 yards ( 4.3) and all-time Pitt career rushing list. three TDs. 
With three games remaining,On the Pitt side, fullback 
both also figure to move ahead Tony Esposito has taken over 
of Rick Leeson who ranks the groundgaining lead with his seventh with I ,434 yards. Ferris 81-yard output against Smcuse~ _ has now rushed for 1,376 yards, 
Esposito now has 453 yards while Esposito is close behind (4.0), while halfback Denni~ with I ,346 yards.­
Voices from the crowd 
Sports Editor: and the NCAA the feelings of 
I am in the process of ini­many football fans in the coun­tiating a drive who's purpose is try. to convince the NCAA rules Gratefully, committee that a majority of James R. Parlagi college football supporters Mahway, New Jersey would like the question of the national championship decided 
Editor's Note: If you agree

on the field rather than by the 
with Mr. Parlagi's idea it might
pollsters. My feeling is that a 
be a good idea to send in your
team can well by overlooked in 
signature through a section basis
the ratings when they are in 
in the halls. Ifenough signatures 
competition for the top spot 
are procured some type of play­
with a team with a reputation of 
off system might be set up, if
football success in the past. 
not for this year for seasons
This task for gaining support 
following this. 
for such a game is next to impossible for one person. The ::::::::::::t.:::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;;;::~::: 
~~:~~:~ik~stot~~: t~~s~a!:o~~~ ~!!iC orrectionillt 
no one has thhe time or effort to .....====··j _ ..~;...;::·: 
see it throug . It is my hope that you can help this cause along by ;:;: The article in T~esd~y's;;;: making this petition available to ;~;jObse'?'er concerning registratiOn ~;j~ your readers. I am asking the ;:;:for mterhall basketball con·::~ help of all the major universities ;:;;tained an error. Each hall will be!~; in the country. ;:;;permitted only 0~~ te~m perl;j; 
Success would be attained by ;~;p 00 stude~ts restdu~g m the;;;; flooding Sports Illustrated Maga-;:;:dorm. Thts was mcorrectly;;;; zinc with thousands of signa-;?eported ~~ two teams per;;;; tures supporting the enclosed :;;;hun.d~ed. residents. For further;~;~ petition. This would undoubted-;;;;clar~ftcatwn call the lnterhall;;~ Iy cause them to bring the sub-;;;;Off1ce a.t 6100. Rosters must be;;;; · t t r ht d h th br :·:·handed m by Nov. 11. :·:· 
JCC o 1g an s ow e pu IC :;:~::::;:::::::::::;:;:;:::;:::;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;;::;:;:::::::;:;::~:=:~:;:; 

team this year. I feel that this ment Walt flashed that grin of 'closeness' makes us a great his. He looked happy; as though team." he had just thrown Jimmy Jones After making that last state-for a 20 yard loss. 
Panthers must regroup for ND 
Page 8 THE OBSERVER. 

'Open Speaker Policy' lood 
(Continued from page 1) 
way in which this can be done. 
Hesburgh criticized, however, the decision to bring Ti-Grace Atkinson as a representative speaker on the Women's Libera­tion Movement. 
"It's agood thing," he said' "to have a discussion on Wo­men's Lib, but she abused the privilege of the place and was unnecessarily contentious." 
Concerning Observer coverage of the speech, rr. Hesburgh said that he felt that there could be "good coverage without going down to her level." 
Jim Metzger, head of the 

Student Union Academic Com 
mission that brought Miss Atkin­
son to campus, also defended 
the "Open Speaker Policy," also 
on the grounds that it had an 
educational value to the mem­
bers of the University who knew 
very little about the Women's 
Lib M:>vement. 
Metzger said that he did not 

know the exact text of Miss 


Poet Tom Raworth will speak in the Library Auditorium this Friday, November 6 at 8:00PM. His presentation is being co-sponsored by SUAC and the Sophomore Literary Festival. 
Works published by the thirty-six year old poet include 
The Relation Ship, The Big Green Day, Lion Lion, and Haiku, this last volume containing contributions by John Esam and Anselm Hollo. 
Besides his works of poetry, Mr. Raworth was formerly deitor of Outburst magazine, and has published a novel entitled A Serial Biography. 
Poetry remains his main interest. Charles Olsen has called his poems "preternaturally wise" and Jeff Nuttall has said that "they are not to be taken either as signature, or as information, or as evidence. They are to be taken as the reanimation of experience by dislocation and juxtaposition." 
Grotto rosary 

A group of Notre Dame students and faculty will meet in the Grotto Sunday, for rosary and benediction as an act of reparation for the recent speech of Ti Grace Atkinson attacking the Catholic Church. 
Lou Stahl, ·a senior law student involved in the action said that the rosary and benediction will be held between 
I :30 and 2:00 pm. He emphasized that the action was not any sort of demonstration and did not possess any political overtones. There are to be no speeches at the meeting or any dramatic gestures. Stahl said that the group involved simply felt that something ought to be done to make up for the profane attacks Atkinson made upon the Church. 
Atkinson's speech before she gave it, but that "she has a record of responding to the individual situation." 
He feels that she "responded to the intimidating crowd" since she has been the target ~f several ugly incidents at other schools. 
Metzger also said that regard­less of Bishop Pursley's letter he will continue to bring a ~ide range of speakers to the campus. 
Hesburgh also said that SUAC's program of speakers had been rather unbalanced so far this year, and that a balanced program is necessary to truly serve all elements of the Univer­sity. 
Observer Editor Glen Corso who gave final approval to th~ Atkinson article, said that he felt the profanity used was an accurate depiction of a "vulgar, foul-mouthed speaker." J-le said that it was not Observer policy to print "gutter words," and that it would never be the policy to do so in the future. The one exception was made "because it was an exceptional lecture, in every way." 

Corso added, "We have all learned from this experience." 
The second criticism made by the bishop was of the abortion ad printed both in The Observer and in the Scholastic, although no mention was made of the 
student magazine in the letter. 
Fr. Hesburgh said that he felt the abortion ad was "completely out of place at this time and at this institution." 
However, he said he was not contemplating any sort of restrictions on The Observer or 
Budtet vote postponed 
(Continued from page 1) 
expenses in event of family emergencies. 
Jackson further supported his argument for the Afro-American Society's budget when he said "Black students know best what black students need.'! 
The Afro-American Society originally requested $6310. The Finance Committee made a recommendation for $4800. 
Bob \\eaver, President of St. Ed's, the smallest (132 residents) dorm on campus made a presen­tation to the Senate requesting funds for programs which 9:. Ed's would be unable to fund with its $5 hall tax alone. Weaver stressed that he hoped his actions would not set a precedent whereby other dorms approached the Senate . for funds. 
The largest allotment of funds was made to the Student Union. The Union budget requested money in excess of $43,000, but the Finance Committee pared that figure to $37,000 to be divided between Administra­tions, and the Social, Services, and new Cultural Arts Commis­sion. 


Student Government was al­loted $13, I00. Its major expense was $6,7 50 paid in salaries to the three secretaries who work for Student Government. Some demand was made for clarifica­tion of these salaries, but no breakdown was presented. 
WSND spokesman, Steve DellaPietra, station manager, noted that the radio station had requested money in excess of $4000. The Finance Committee granted only $1 ,025. 
The total amount of the Finance Committee recommen­dations, covering seventeen or­ganizations, was $65,094. 
Voting on the budtet was postponed at least until the Senates: next meeting, Sunday, 7 p.m., at which time Conroy will distribute to the Senators copies of all the budgets sub­mitted by the organizations to the Finance Committee. 

OBSERVER 
--~ITION OPENING 
Ass'f • ._lness Mgr. 
C•ll Bruce 7471 tw8787 
F()X's DIAMOND IMPORT SAVINGS 

AT FOX'S YOU GET ABIGGER, BETTER QUALITY DIAMOND LESS MONEY! 
*SOUTH BEND *MISHAWAKA 
BUDGET TERMS 

YOUNG ADULT ACCOUNTS WELCOME 
6 PRONG DIA• $495 

MOND SET..... . NOTRE DAME ACCOUNTS 


COLDRbvDewxe 0> Umted Art•sts 
.. A HARD DAYS 
NIGHT" 
2803 S~. Michigan St. \ , Phone 291·5522 
German Food \ Our Specially 
1
'Cre.ted with Old World Atmos· · 
P/'et"e· Speci•lizinB in Germer\ : 
,l•nd Americ•n Foods , , 
Open 10:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m. 1 / Sou!h Bend's ·.Finest 
Closed Sundays and Holidays I Banquet Rooms 
\The Alprne & Bavanan Room 
NOTICE 
All off-cam~Jus undergraduates may pick up campus directories in the Off-Campus of­fice, Basement of the LaFortune student center. Please only oile directory per house or apart­ment. 
..,........... 
a Br•sii'M 
with Casey Aaderson and Don Sherman 
Saturday, Nov. 7 
8:30 In ACC Tickets $5, $4 and·$2 at Student Union Ticket Office and Dining Halls (Tues., Wed., Thurs.l presented by Student Union Social Commission & ACC 





