A Pictu_re Essay Of The Cotton Bowl 
.'ictures OT.l pages :!,, 5' anu X I I 
I 

I I 
I 
I 
' ~ 
I 
I I I I I 
~  
VOL. IV, No. 59  JANUARY 7, 1970  I I  
Conference convenes  I  
with Hesburgh talk  
by Mark Walbran  see  it  fundamentally  turns  
Father  Theodore  lleshurgh  around one word, and that is the  
last  night  in  the  library  'land'," said Ilesburgh.  
auditorium officially opened the  In an effort to understand the  
Notre Da.me Conference on the  origins of the problems of Indian  
problems  and  culture  of  the  Americans  Ilesburgh  said  that  
American Indian.  the  Civil  Rights  Commission  
Hesburgh  stressed  that  the  conducted a study of the 'land',  
public's lack  of knowledge and  which  was  presented  at  the  
information  about  Indian  Commission's  meeting  held  in  
Americans  contributes  to  the  Denver just before Christmas.  

complexity of their problems. Hesburgh traced the 
"It ill behooves us to be so expansionist movement of the ignorant about so many of our European settlers and cited the neighbors, particularly our many unfair arrangements made minority neighbors, and I would with the Indians. guess that while all of us have Hesburgh compared the been brought up on a cowboy government's policy toward the and Indian culture, we are all Indians to a tennis match, in its fundamentally ignorent about (continued on page 2) our Indian neighbors and Indian brothers", he said. ND freshman 
Hesburgh said his interest in Indian Americans stems not only ta"es lite from his being Chairman of the
Father Hesburgh addressing last night's openin'J session ot the Indian Conference. The conference by Paul Gallagher 
Civil Rights Commission, as, hecontinues today at 4 in the Library Auditorium 
explained, he is also an adopted A semi-professional second chief of an Oklahoma tribe. story work room has finally 
Singling out Indian Americans been completed in room 253 of from other minority groups, Sarin Hall after months of meas­Hesburgh noted three uring and cutting and hammer­
Student co-authors book 
fundamental differences unique ing. However, one of the resi­to this, the nation's second dent carpenters responsible forNotre Dame student, Jim news media. people seem to feel they arc largest minority group. the job did not return fromKearns, along with a friend, They conclude that these They see many protests as a Indian Americans, he said, Christmas vacation to make use
James Brown of St. Louis Uni­stereotypes prevent dialogue bet­protest against the ulti1~1ate goal have their own organized of the room.
Vl'rsity recently wrote a hook ex­ween the two groups which has of many programs not against separate culture, highlighted by Freshman engineering student
ploring the relationship between resulted in the alienation found the programs themselves. In this the fact that they live on Bob Butkovich; 18, from Gor­
the War in Vietnam and the gen­today in our society. area, the authors think that eration gap. The book, Hra of The writers took over a year much of the accomplishments of reservations for the most part. don Technical High School in Secondly, he said that Indian Chicago's northwest side, died
Challenge, is due to he published to research this book and they youth are ignored by older peo­in paperback form next week by ple. Americans are a quasi-sovereign Sunday night at the home of his
believe they have taken an objec­people, having treaty rights with girl friend not far from his Chi­tile !3. lieder Book Co. of St. tive look at both sides. The The book while supporting the federal government. cago home. He died only five

Louis. authors feel they have investi­the war, looks at both sides of Thirdly, he said, that Indian months after his childhood
The hook looks at the com-gated the arguments and taken a the arguments pertaining to 
Americans have a dream of attending Notre Dame
munications gap between genera­critical look at government stra­Vietnam. It examines these tions in terms of the War in Viet­tergy and policy as well. issues in light of the generation quasi-dependence on the federal had come true. 
government. Word of the death reachednam. The authors feel that the While questioning the war ef­gap and shows the results of this Bob's roommate, Mike Kessler,
primary factors in youth's disil­fort, they emphasize their basic conflict. "The more you study this lusionnwnt with soci•:ty are re­support of the war. "True pat­complex situation, the more you (continued on page 2) sults of this war. riotism involves criticism as well They usc as evidence the com­as praise." 
Fall concerts called successful
munications gap which exists In view of this, protests such between youths and their elders. as the Moratorium, become ex­In their view, both age groups pressions of concern and criti­by Buz Craven not recur. some of the members of the 
group so the concert did not
hold stereotypes of each other, cism, not, they conclude, the Although there were several This concert also lost a small obtained primarily through the acts of outright rejection many amount. Vecchi attributed the start until after ten o'clock.
minor administration problems 
on some of the concerts, Stu­loss to the high cost of the By starting so late the group violated their contract with the
dent Union Social Commissioner Woody Herman Orchestra for a
SMC students receive 
Social Commission and the ACC
Dave Vccchi was satisfied with preliminary act. but the management decided t;
the fall concert season; he The Chambers Brothers Con­cert also lost noney due to the go ahead with the concert rather
co-ed questionnaire 
termed the recently completed than cancel because the majority
series "the best concert season in reduced price of the tickets.
by Connie Byrne 
Vecchi exp1ained that the group of the people in the stands wait­
the country for a school our
A questionnaire was distri­Student Research Commission, a ed to see the act.
size. 'Nas not booked in time to have
buted Monday night to the SMC group of SMC students formu­The Smokey Robinson and
He expressed hope that both regular reserved seat tickets 
students hy the Student Re­lated the questionnaire based on the Miracles concert was success­
the Athletic and Convocation 'lrinted, so the tickets were sold search and Development Com­the topics discussed with the ful in every way until some of
Center and the Sodal Commis­at reduced price. . 
mission in ;•n attempt to ascer­committee. Kathy Shelton, SMC Mr. Robinson's fans became
sion staff have learned from He further explained that if 
tain their sentiments towards sophomore said, "The girls were over-excited and rushed the
their experience so far this year the tickets had been sold for the co-education. invited to meet wit! the com­and will be able to work togeth­regular prices, the Convo and the stagt:, forcing the performers to 
The preface to the question­mittee so that they might gather retire to their dressing rooms.
er better for the rest of the year. Social Commission would have 
naire states that tht• infor..wtion some individual opir.ions on co­profit. Vccchi termed the Associa­
Vecchi said that most of the made a ~mall 
will he used "in prest•nting co­education for SMC and ND." tion con10ert the "best attend­
problems of the new building­In spite of their being two The co-education committee
education proposals to the t.his is the first year for the Stu­hours late in starting their act, ance-wise and in the quality of 
(Notn~ Dame) Board of Trus­is chaired by Steve O'Brien and the show." The show was a sell­
dent Union com:erts to be held Vecchi considered the Blood, tees." John Zimmerman. in the Convo-were worked out in Sweat and Tears the most suc­out and a fitting closing for a The questions deal with stu­Pam Carey, SMC A.... 1cmic 
the Dionne Warwick-Wody Her­cessful concert of the season successful concert season. 
dt•nl opinion on the effective­Commissioner. commented on man concert the first of the because "they were in the height The Social Commission ness of the prcst•nt co-exchange the questionnaire. "Discussion year. of their popularity" when they brought to Notre Dame ~.:very program, the advis<~hility of de­of co-education is good. The liv­appeared on the campus. kind of music currently popular
Some concert goers were sc<Jt­
partmental mergers, and the de­ing sit ual ion should bt• doser to­except hard a~:id rock and
ed behind the stage and the The financial sucl'l'Ss of this sirability of co-ed campus living gether but there an: problems concert more tlum made up for straight folk. Vccchi said he
orchestra and could not sec the in the SMC-ND community. with the physical plants of the stage. This problem was quickly the loss~.:s on the first concerts. hopes to provide at least one of After meeting with the co­two schools. We could stand hav­
corrected and provisions were The lraffi~: problems around the these kinds of music in the educational committt·e of thl' ing guys around at SMC." upcoming spring concerts.
made so that the problem did Convo delayed the arrival of 

JANUARY 7, 1970

PAGE 2 
7HB OBSERJIU. 



Class to stress over:-popu I ation 
Nuclear war, world-wide famine, uncontrolled epidemics. and psychological disorders are much more likely under the crowded, pollution-ridden condi­tions of over population, a new second semester course will stress. 
Dr. Thomas C. Griffing, assistant professor of biology and a researcher in the area of ecology, will teach the novel science course called "Biology and the Population Crisis." The course is open to both graduates and undergraduates of any major, and will meet two hours a week beginning February 4. 
Griffing hopes that the wide variety of students will be able to bring expertise from business, law, theology, psychology and other areas to bear on the com­plex, interrelated problems of population. As problems are posed in class, he will ask the students to propose alternative solutions for solving the probfem or alleviating its effects. At the 
end of the course, these propos­the likelier that it will be driven als will be combined, printed-up, to extinction by the catastrophe. and distributed to interested per­The principles governing pop­sons. ulation in other species are well­
As a biologist, Griffing will known, he said, and there is no present evidence gathered from evidence to show they do not animal species on the effects of apply to man as well. Griffing over population. Generally, he added that man has created his explained, an intricate balance population problem by accept­exists between a group, its food ing death control through mod­supplies, predators, prey, and ern medicine before developing competitors. However, if the techniques of birth control. species grows significantly bey­He hopes the variety of disci­ond these natural limits, it is plines represented in the new only a matter of time before course can offer new solutions food runs out, predators in­to the human problem of gaining crease, or competitors take over. acceptance for a stringent inter­And the greater the numbers of national regimen of population the group when this happens, control. 
Brinkley comments on Soviet Union position 
The Soviet Union faces a diffi­has predicted. 
cult future in its United Nations Writing in the current issue of relations with the so.-called the "Review of Politics," a quar­"Third World," Notre Dame pol­terly published by Notre Dame itical scientist George Brinkley Dr. Brinkley concludes that "the developing countries have not 

been nearly as susceptible to Soviet influence as either Lenin or Khrushchev expected." 
Brinkley said that Russian policy is inclined to revert to earlier attitudes toward both the emerging countries and the Uni­ted Nations, "showing more res­traint with respect to relations with and aid to the developing countries, retreating to a more circumspect view of initiatives in the General Assembly and re­assv·ting the role of the Security Council in the U.N. system." 
The problem which the Soviet Union shares with the United States within the United Nations has presented them with a choi­ce between detente with the great powers and sympathy with the demands of emerging na­tions. "The Soviet Union may find itself unable to maintain the advanrages of popularity with either the great or the many," Brinkley commented. 
Brinkley, a specialist in 
Russian studies, studied Soviet 
conduct in the United Nations 
while on an international affairs 
fellow of the Council on Foreign 
Relations in New York, N.Y. He 
is chairman of Notre Dame's deo 
partment of government and in­
ternational studies. 

Mike Kelly 
A few oversights 
Dear Santa, 
This Christmas, as every Christmas, there are a few things that people should have been given that weren't. I hope that you will remedy this situation in the near future. Remember, Santa, if you can't do your job and remain relevent you may have to go. 
# 

Here are some gifts you could have given: To Rich Moran and THE SCHOLASTIC staff: one paragraph of descriptive prose without any adjectives, To Guy DeSapio: a staff that will work as hard as he wants them to, To THE OBSERVER staff: an editor who will work as hard as they want him to, To Chris Wolfe: a new medium through which to articulate his beliefs, To Tom Thrasher: with election time creeping nearer, a crate of politico cigars would come in handy, To Michael Patrick O'Connor: the editorship of THE SATURDAY REVIEW and his own university, To Rick Libowitz: chairmanship of the Mishawaka "Salute to Israel" bond drive, To Greg Adolf: a Protestant Inquisition, To Denny Clark: a keg of beer and a lock on his door, To Tito Trevino: access to Clark's beer, To Kay Bajo: Student Union (officially), To the Academic Commission: money, To the Social Commission: money and taste, To the Young Republicans: relevancy, To the Young Democrats: existance, To the CPA: a coherent and consistent philosophy, To the Students Against Racism: a PR man who understands communication, To John Zimmerman: Our Lady's Sodality, To Bernie Ryan: the world, To Ed Roickle: whatever's left (no pun intended), To Pat Clinton: the time to do everything he is able to do, 
To the Morningglory Brigade: a copy of The Jesse Fuller Songbook and a 'fodella', To the Authentically Maerrywhethre: a new reverb unit and a copy of "The Greatest Hits of the Ohio Express," To Paul Guernsey: more of the same, To John Kraniak: an associate professorship in the ND Government Department, To Ted Jones: a seat in the U.S. Senate from Texas, To Jean-Paul Mustone: a one-man production of "Oh, Calcutta!", To Norri Wright: an Italian count to court her while in Europe, To John Mroz, Ray Connell, Tom Oliveri, Larry Landry, Bob Pohl, Rich Hunter, Ed Davey, Tim O'Melia, etc., etc.: no regrets, To Carolyn Gatz and the Women's Liberation Front: moderate success (but spare us the bitter indignation, please), To Pete Kelly: more new titles, To Maureen Phillips: an old 78 rpm of Roy Acuff singing "Red Headed Woman," To Kelly Knauer: a phone call, To Tim Walch: the cqmplete Rod McKuen, To Tom Henehan: a transcript of Billy Graham's "Tell it like it 
is to the kids at the rock festival" speech, To Steve Novak: the continued love and affection of his fellow students. 
Well, Santa, I guess that covers the big things. Oh yes, next year 
might be a nice time to try peace. Yours, still believing, Michael Kelly 




Calls education the answer 
(continued [tom page 1) 
plet:~ora of contradicting decisions. 
Only at the beginning of this decade, under the Kennedy Administration, was a constructive policy formulated
soc off ON ANY PIZZA 
for Indian-Americans, aimed at economics and social development, said Hesburg!J.
(GOOD THROUGH JANUARY 30, 1970) 
Then the Civil Righh 

Commissipn reviewed the 
various problem areas of Indian
PIZZA 11UT® 
Americans. 


Since the Voting Rights Bill of 1965, when literacy tests were abolished, voting ceased to be a major problem among Indians. 
"The situation on education of the American Indian is generally worse than that of the Black or the Mexican-Amer­ican", said Hesburgh. Hesburgh noted that three years of formal 
PRE-LAW 
Assistant Dean Donald M. Sheraw of 
the Cornell Law School will be con·

Where every piz.z.a's a cheap thrill 
ducting interviews for prospective students on Thursday, January 8th in

1738 Lincoln Highway East 
Room 154 of the Center for Contin· 

-· 2307 East Edison·· Soutli Bend 
uing Education. Sign up for an appointment outside Room 101
1400 N a anee-Elkhart 
O'Shaughnessy.
-

education was the national average among Indian-A mer­
icans. 
The administration of justice among Indian-Americans poses unique problems as there are occassionally conflicts between federal law and tribal law, said Hesburgh. He said courts generally rule in favor of tribal law when conflicts arise. 
Individual states, he said, are reluctant to provide welfare to 

Services 
(continued from page 1) 
late Sunday night· through a 
phone call from Mr. Butkovich. 
Mr. Butkovich said his son died 
of a ~unshot wound in the head. 
Aparently he committed sui­
cide. 
Although Butkovich passed 
up 1200 dollars in student aid to 
the University of Illinois to 
come to Notre Dame and had 
initially been excited about the 
prospects here, his enthusiasm­
according to his roommate­
waned as the semester passed. 
An activist in high school as a member of his high school's drama club, as chairman of his student government's homecolll-Indians because they are non-taxable. 
"While there are certainly common grounds, commonality of problems as regard all minorities," said Hesburgh, "there is a great difference and great uniqueness about thf: problems of the Indians." 
Hesburgh said his own belief is that the starting point for the solutions to these problems is education. 

tomorrow 
ing activities, an officer in Gor­don Tech's Junior Achievement group and a winner of several awards for patriotism speeches, Butkovich seemed to have be­come less anxious to get in­volved in things as time passed this year. 
Bob's death leaves eight per­sons in the Butkovich house­hold. Beside his mother and father, there are his brothers Nicholas Jr., Richard, Thomas and Joseph and his sisters Mary and Claire. Funeral services will be held Thursday morning at 
9:30 at Immaculate Cvaception Church in Norwood Park, Illi­nois. 
7HE OBSERJJM 
PAGE 3 





Teach computer to speak 

A computer that can write rules of grammar into the com­and understand a form of puter, partially enabling it to 
spoken English is the goal of Dr. 
dissect sentences into grammati­Johannes J. Martin, assistant cal sections and analyze the professor of computing science separate parts. Martin's approach at Notre Dame. 
is to let the computer. figure out Martin, who is patiently its own rules of grammar.
"teaching" the University's com­puter to link words, concepts, He read several sentences of 
grammar and symbols common one pattern into the computer,in spoken English, will present a like "Here is a pen," "Here is a paper on his research at the third book," and "Here is a cup." The Hawaiian International Confer­
machine then "learns" that ence on January 16, called words like pen, book and cup"Information Compression by can follow the pattern "Here is String-Pattern Analysis." a." If another pattern which includes "book" is presented, the computer will ask if "pen"
Man has traditionally 
and "cup" would also be communicated with computers correct, building up a kind ofthrough artificial and rigid pro­
gramming languages like· PLI, COBOL, or FORTRAN, Martin 
Agnew in Afghanistan,explained. Such language can be trials for scientists with little 

receives acclaim, jeers 
programming background, but KABUL, Afghanistan (UPI) ­who wish to use the computer Vice President Spiro T. AgnewFather John L. McKenzie, S.J. receives the Thomas More Medal for research in communications, arrived Tuesday in this mountain 

from John C. Drahos, Secretary and Director of Sales of the Thomas English, or anthropology. 
locked neutral monarchy forMore Association for McKenzie's "The Roman Catholic Church"-­Other researchers attacking talks on Asia's future defense,

"the most distinguished contribution to Catholic literature in 1969." the problem have usually fed the stressing President Nixon's pol­icy of lessening U.S. involvement in the Far East. Police held off hundreds of Vietnam War pro-


Kennedy replies: no alcohol 
testers. 
EDGARTOWN, Mass. (UPI)­Sen. Edward M. Kennedy has testified he drank no alcoholic beverages at a party the night Mary Jo Kopechne died in his car, UPI learned Tuesday. 
The senator's testimony. given as the secret inquest into Miss Kopechne's death opened Mon­day, was almost a duplication of his nationally televised account July 25 as he described circumstances surrounding the death of the 28 year old secre­tary. 
Rosemary Keough, whose purse was found in Kennedy's car and at first was thought to have died as the car plunged off an unlighted bridge into a tidal pond, testified Tuesday along with Kennedy's cousin Joseph Gargan and Paul F. Markham, former U.S. attorney for Mas­sachusetts. 
Attended Cookout 

Miss Keough, Gargan and Markham, along with four other girls and three men, attended the cookout reunion July 18 in addition to Kennedy and Miss Kopechne. The girls were all campaign workers during the late Sen. Robert F. Kennedy's presidential bid of 1968. 
Edward Kennedy has said he brought Gargan and Markham froTn the party to the crash site but they were unable to rescue Miss Kopechne. 
Miss Keough's pocketbook, containing a U.S. Senate pass and room key for the Katama Shores Motor In in Edgartown where the girls were registered, was in the senator's car as it was 
FIRE KILLS EIGHT 

OTARU, Japan UI'I -Eight
fishermen died Tuesday when fire swept their boat off the northern i~and of Hoddahlo, police reported. Eight other crewmen of the No. 21 Hokuetsu Maru escaped on life­boats. Police said the victims were trapped in a cabin. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage 
Thousands of turbaned and pulled from Poucha Pond. The­cottage on Chappaquiddick, just • robed Afghans turned out in ories that she was in the car across a channel from Edgar­near freezing weather to wel­when it plunged off dike bridges town. Widespread speculation come the Agnews with bouquets are "completely false, a ridicu­centered on whether he had of flowers, cheers and little lous untruth," she has said. been drinking heavily. American flags on the sixth stop Raymond S. LaRosa of Ando­of his tour. Dinner Drinks Only ver, a sailing friend who also was 
Anti-War Protests 

at the gathering, testified Mon­
Kennedy, who testified for. About 300 anti Vietnam War
day there was little drinking and 
about two hours Monday, told demonstrators, many wearing
no drugs at the party. He said
the judge he had two drinks at Western style clothes, sought un­
Kennedy had two rum and cokes 
dinner the night of the .accident successfully to protest along the
with dinner and no drinks at the
but nothing to drink at the party motorcade route in this hippie
cookout.
following the meal at a rented mecca of cheap and legal mari­juana. They were held at bay by police.
McKenna reports on 
Members of the 150 strong U.S. Peace Corps in Afghanistan had threatened to protest the war when Agnew and his wife

minority recruitment 
cording to McKenna, in estab-
Judy arrived from Katmandu
by Rich Smith lishing a rapport with the stu­
where they also encountered
A group of Notre Dame stu-dent counselors at the high 
anti war protesters.
dents spent a week of their schools. 
The l 0 mile motorcade that

Christmas holidays in New York "We told them about pro­
carried the Agnews to the royal
City recruiting in high schools grams like black studies which 
guest house of King Zahir Shah
with predominantly black and they were never aware of. They 
was bedecked with flags of both
Puerto Rican student bodies. were just great," McKenna com-
countries. Kabul is nestled 6,000 
Student Body President Phil mented. 
feet up in snowcapped moun­McKenna, Vice-President Fred The students which the re­tains that separate Pakistan from Dedrick, Afro-American Society cruiters talked to included both Russia.
President Art McFarland, and juniors and seniors. They were During his 20 hour visit,Dave Krashna visited thirteen given cards to fill out requesting Agnew held private talks withhigh schools and talked with applications for admission. 
Premier Noor Ahmad Etemadisixty to seventy students. McKenna said that he has sent and dined with the Afghan royal In their recruiting drive, the out thirty to forty applications family.
four Notre Dame students split to the seniors who have re­
More Soviet Aid 

up into two teams, with each quested them and added that team visiting two or three high applications will be sent out to The king, 55, has ruled this schools per day. juniors next year. storybook country since he was
"l was disappointed in that;______.:________..:::.::.::...::..:~~--.:.._----­
we had had no contact with the inner city before," McKenna said. He also stated that the administrators of a few of the high schools did not give the ND team their fullest cooperation. "They just did not have any 
time to fit us in and some of 
them were cautious when they Learned that this was a student run thing," he said. However, the recruiters met 
with "at least some success," ac-
IMPORTANT NOTICE 
Specia1izing in Jong hair for the co11ege student -Mr. Baron, former]y with Squire Hair Sty Jing is now at 
Continental Hair St.l'iing 
306 Sherland Bldg. Phone 234-0811 

OPEN MON. THRU SAT. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
algebraic grammar which helps it 
decipher sentence patterns. 
The machine also learns to associate words with other symbols and concepts, for instance the word two with the number 2, and with all ogjects that" .come in pairs. It can learn, with the proper instructions and programming, that "point" represents a dot on the plane, and a "line" connects two points. 
The goal, Martin explained, is to enable researchers to ask their questions in a language closely related to English, and receive answers in the same language, eliminating the lengthy, compli­cated translation stages. 
19. Both the United States and Russia began wooing neutral Afghanistan in the early 1950's. The United States has given the nation about $400 million in foreign aid over the years, but 
Russian aid has been reported as 
twice that amount. 
During his visit, Agnew was 
likely to urge Afghanistan to 
make a greater effort in self 
development, a move parallel to 
the Soviet Union's proposal that 
south Asian countries, including 
Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan and 
India, form a regional economic 
alliance by establishing an over­
land trade route. 
The vice president's party will travel to Kuala Lumpur, Malay­sia, on Wednesday. 

l.ynd to talk on violence 
Staughton Lynd, radical his­torian and author of The Glther Side, an account of his travels throughout North VietnaJll, will speak at 8:00p.m. tonight in the engineering auditorium. Lynd is presently leading the Resistance . in Chicago and is researching a book on the history of war re­sistance. Lynd will speak on vio­lence within the educational 
system. 


McDonald's 
Hamburgers ® 
The way you like 'em best I 
1ooo' BEEF 
• • • 10 . .. GROUND FRESH ... PREPARED WITH CARE 
HOT OFF THE GRILL ••• ON TOASTED BUN ••• UM-M-M-M GOOD! 
Come in any time. The service is fast 
Splros Men's Shop 
-our prices are right!

downtown South Bend 


McDonald's. 

Clothing by Hart, Shaffner and Marx~ Van Heusen, .. vm!!: kind of~ Pendleton and Jantzen 
~ 


~.Corp.,_ 
South Bend· Mishawaka· Elkhart 
paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 

THE OBSERflllt JANUARY 7, 1970
PAGE 4 

Bob Hartman and Joe Cottrell share with us some scenes of triumph and tragedy in Dallas. Both celebrate the fes­tive float and band and parade, and show us a little of the win and the loss which the Irish experienced at this, their second bowl game. 


JANUARY 7, 1970 
PAGE 5 


r 

JANUARY 7, 1970
PAGE 6 





Letters to the Editor 
Reply to Lyons 

The following is a copy of a letter written to Father Daniel Lyons by Professor Stephen Kertesz of the Notre Dame Government Department. 
Dear Father Lyons: 

Your editorial of last Novem­ber 23 was brought to my attention recently. The first sentence of the editorial stated: 
"When the Ford Foundation made a grant a few years ago to the University of Notre Dame for a study on international problems, it stipulated that Ger-hart Niemeyer, who teaches at Notre Dame, be banned from the discussions." 
This statement is completely untrue and probably libelous because it implies an improper action of the Ford Foundation which would have violated the academic freedom of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame. The grant to which you apparently refer was given by the Ford Foundation to the University of Notre Dame on June 21, 1965 for a five-year period for. strengthening West European studies and the activi­ties of the Committee on Inter­national Relations. 
In connection with this grant and other area study grants in the past, I corresponded and negotiated with the Ford Found­ation, specifically with Mr. Clean 0. Swayzee, now retired, a man of the highest integrity. He visited the University of Notre Dame in March 1965, and 

had a conference with a number 
of faculty members and admini­
strators. The purpose of his visit 
was to discuss some of the 
aspects of the West European 

study program we proposed to 
the Ford Foundation. 

In the course of our contacts 
with the Ford Foundation • the 
,.:..;.::.:::..-=:..:_.::....:;..:,..::.....:.,..:...:;.:::..:..:=-::..:..:..:......:.:::.....-, books was at least partially Watch for supported by grants the Univer-The House sity received from the Rockefel­ler Foundation and the Ford of Ill-Repute Foundation for the purposes of Coming soon at your nearby the Committee on International Mardi Gras -fun and games Relations and our Soviet and to soothe your mind and East European and West body European area st•tdy programs. 
banning of Professor Niemeyer or anybody else from any of our programs was never brought up, let alone discussed, in connec­tion with any grant received by the University of Notre Dame at any time. Such allegations are false. 

Professor Niemeyer has parti­cipated in scholarly activities supported by the Ford grant which the University of Notre Dame received. During the first year of the grant period, the Committee on International Relations sponsored a confer­ence entitled, "Marx and the Western World," April 24-29, 1966-a project included in our application to the Ford Founda­tion. Professor Niemeyer was asked to participate in this conference and he delivered a paper, "Marx's Impact upon European Socialism." This paper was part of the volume, Marx and the Western World, which published the m;~teria:l of the conference. This volume, edited by Professor Nicholas Lobko­wicz, appeared in the Inter­national Studies Series of the Committee on International Relations. All expenditures connected with the conference and the publication of the volume were covered from the Ford grant. 
It is my hope that you, Reverend Father, would wish to be particularly careful about the accuracy of your statements. As a Catholic priest and as a member of the Society of Jesus, you have a special moral obliga­tion in the service of truthful­ness and you are aware of the necessity of making restitution for libel. Therefore, I request that you retract your quoted statement and that you publish my letter in Twin Circles. 
I enclose for your information a list of fory-five books publish­ed by our Committee on Inter­national Relations since 1951. The publication of most of these It would be in the public interest if you would indicate to me the title of those books in the list which in your judgment serve "Leftist causes." 

Sincerely yours, 
Stephen D. Kertesz 
Director of the Institute 
for International Studies 
Another reply 
Dear Fr. Lyons and Mr. Finn: 

I read the reprint of the adver­tisement/article by Father Lyons with great interest because it re­presents the type of intellectual­ism that tittalates a graduate of the Class of '59-one of those classes to which Father Hes­burgh refers with such great nos­talgia. 
I must confess that I find it a bit confusing, though, in places. 
Your reference to what "most Negroes" feel and believe in­trigues me, who are you (or I, for that matter) to make any kind of generalizations about the Black community? Do you have a certain amount of expertise in the experience of being Black, or are you refering to information gathered fro·m your maid, or of­fice janitor (both of whom rely on YOU for their wages, and are, therefore, not necessarily going to tell it like it is)? 
The article calls Bayard Rustin a Communist in no un­certain terms. (A similar article in 1943 would have called him a Nazi.) Am I, are we here at Notre Dame in general, to be lead to believe that as short a time as 10 years ago this Univer­sity was graduating men whose only recourse when faced with a person they don't like is to call him names? ~-· 
Possibly you are correct in as­suming that Mr. Rustin is a "lousy Red"; if so, his redness seems closely related to his blackness in that the Communist Party U.S.A. has been interested (for dubious reasons, I'll admit) in the plight of black people in this country for a lot longer than either of you have. Neither of you would ever have to join, or fellow-travel, with an organiza­tion like that for your self-inter­est and that of your people, yot!'ve never been told you 
Interested in social action internships with public or private agencies or in other work I study programs for academic credit? 
DEADLINE FOR DEVELOPING SUCH PROGRAMS 
FOR SPRING SEMESTER IS NEXT WEEK. 
For details contact: 
MIKE McCAFFERTY URBAN STUDIES OFFICE 1st FLOOR MEMORIAL LIBRARY Ex. 1112 
couldn't have a motel room (in a see a problem and try and under­vacant motel), or that you stand it; see injustice and try to couldn't be served at a lunch remedy it; feel others' pain; un­counter. You seem amazed that derstand not THAT a person is he doesn't totally love being an the way he is, but WHY the man American; how much do you is that way? Is this too much to know-how much would you ask of a Catholic University? Is want to know-about being a it too much to ask that concern Black American? be somehow instilled? Is it too 
You are kind enough to Mr. much to ask that during four Rustin to mention an arrest on years here narrow minds be "sexual perversion" charges. broadened_ maybe not to the What does that have to do with extent of agreement-but at ijoast his being a Communist? Being · to the point of understanding 
Black, what might have happen­ed to him if he hadn't pleaded guilty (guilty or not?-or have you ever heard of jail beatings or brutality???), and one offence hardly makes him an habitual homosexual, rapist, or whatever -of course, neither of you have ever done anything wrong, so understanding someone who might commit some offence might be difficult. 

As for his convictions in con­nection with the Civil Rights movement, good grief, gentle­men, I'm from Alabama (have either of you ever even visited there?) and I know how stupidly justice can be miscarried (usually in direct proportion to the skin pigmentation of the one charged). How much national publicity does injustice have to receive before you two will be­lieve it is possible in our "per­fect" society? 
As to the reaction of students, faculty, and alumni to Rustin's appointment to the Board of Trustees, yes, many of them are appalled. They were shocked that a person as behind the times as far as the aspirations and needs of the Black community are concerned would be picked. 
In case you haven't noticed, most of this letter is an attack on your attitudes. I thought I'd point that out, because the rea­son that Rustin is a Communist, Communist sympathizer, or whatever, the reason that he has a prison record, the reason you find him undesirabl~ as a mem­ber of the sacrosanct Board of Trustees at Notre Dame, is you -and others who would rather put people . into categories so they can be forgotten, than dis­cuss concerns that should be mutual. 
How long will it take-are you hopefully doing it now?'!-be­fore the "great" University of Notre Dame can produce men, MEN, who will think things out; those with whom agreement might not be possible? 
Many "students here are con­cerned, very honestly, with what Notre Dame is doing now, with the kind of men it is presently turning out; Mr. Finn, you are an excellent example of why this concern exists. There are very few people in the 19-28 year-old bracket who cherish the idea that they, or their sons, simply by spending four years at Notre Dame, will end up narrow-mind­ed, paranoid, self-righteous "gen­tlemen" by the time they're 32. Sincerely, Gail Boller M.A. '68 
P.S. To further upset you about the "new Left direction" being taken by Notre Dame, in the same issue of the Observer which printed your "contribution" there was an ad from a Dallas Presbyterian Church, inviting Cotton Bowl fans to come and participate in a special Lord's Supper the night before the game. I know that Protestant ad­vertising is just unthinkable, and an invitation like that an obvious announcement of idolatry, but I thought you should be kept a­breast of how far Notre Dame has "sunk". 
The night before 

Editor: 
I am writing to protest the actions of a group of Notre Dame students who ran through the halls of Regina Hall last night [the night before vacation -ed. ] and twice knocked to the floor the hall director, Mrs. Pa­tricia Pearson, who tried to get them to leave the building. The 
word "barbarian" is not an over -reaction word in this case. John Courtney Murray once wrote: "The barbarian need not appear in bearskins with a club in hand. He may wear a.Brooks Brothers suit and carry a ball-point pen with which to write his adverti­sing copy." Plain civility and humaneness seemed unable to hold a candle to the Notre Dame "cheer" that was abroad last nigut. 
Sister Mary Elizabeth Griffin 

esc 
Regina· Hall, St. Mary's 



OBSERVER STAFF 
Pictures will be taken for the Yearbook on Friday 
4:00-Stephan Center -Night Editors and Associate Editors 
4:30-Second Floor LaFortune Lounge -Sunday, Monday and Tuesday night staff, Features staff, eolumnists, Business staff 
5:00-Lobby of Center [or Continuing Education -Wed­nesday and Thursday night staffs, Sports Staff and reporters 
5:30-Lobby of Center for Continuing Education-All other editors (Sports, News, Photography, etc.) 
JANUARY 7, 1970 ' THE OBSERfiER. 
PAGE 7 

~~~_:_:_..:.::...:..=--------------------.;....._---'-----~~~--~--~ 
•


Daley testimony booed 1n riot conspiracy trial 
CIIICAGO (UPI) -An out­burst of hissing by spectators in­terrupted the testimony of Mayor Richard J. Daley yester­Jay at tht• riot conspiracy trial. Marshals ousted three def~nse staff members and friends of the "Chicago Seven" in a tumult­uous scene. 
U.S. District Court Judge Jul­IUS J. Hoffman handed the de­fense a setback in its effort to have the mayor designated a "hostile witness" and to put him on trial, in effect, for the rioting that swept Chicago dur­ing the 1968 Democratic Nation­al Convention. 
The defense was thwarted re­peatedly as Judge Hoffman agreed with prosecutors that its line of questioning was improper and irrelevartt. 
There were screams of "This is Chicago all over again," "Take your hands off me;" and "The marshals are arresting people," as U.S. marshals sought to quiet spectators in a section allotted to relatives of the defendants and defense staff workers. 
Courtroom Hissing 

The hissing-subdued at first-became pronounced when defense attorney William M. Kunstler asked Daley about his te!ationship with U.S. Attorney Thomas A. Foran, the chief pro­secutor, and the mayor replied: 
"He is a great U.S. attorney and one of the finest men I 
Conference proceeds 
The Student Union Academic Commission Conference on the American Indian will proceed, despite the absence of Hubert H. Humphrey. Since the primary
aim of the conference is to pro­vide a medium for student a­wareness of the problems of the Indians themselves, the program should not suffer as a large num­ber of Indians will be present and participating in the events. Moreover, the presence of the Indians is more important than that of Humphrey, though some of the glamour may be lacking. 
The revised schedule of events continues with a <;y mposium on the Contemporary Indian Pro­
hlems, Wednesday_, at 4:00p.m. a continuation of the program the preceellmg evening. Supple­menting this will be a Sympo­sium on the Proposed Solutions to the Contemporary Indian Pro­blems to be held Wednesday at 8:00p.m. and Thursday at 4:00 
p.m. Simon Ortiz, a Pueblo In­dian, and poet and teacher at the 
Rough Rock Demonstration School, will deliver a poetry re­cital on Thursday at 8:00 p.m .. On Friday at 2:20 p.m., Ned llatathli, President of the Navajo Community will lecture. All events will be held in the Library Auditorium. 
Despite the blow dealt to the schedule by the late cancella­tion, previous events have 
proven successful. These in­cluded a Poetry reading bv Prof. Peter Michelson formerly of Notre Dame, a welcoming talk by Fr. Hesburgh, and a lecture by Dr. William "Buck" Benham. 
know." 
Kunstler told the judge, "Something is going on in the back of the courtroom," and the judge replied, "Never mind, the marshals will take care of that." 
Three marshals-two men and a woman-escorted out blonde Sharon Clavir, a defense staff member. Scuffling broke out and Frank Joyce, a defense staff 
Viefnamizafion 
disrupts Reds 
PARIS (UPI) -There are in­dications both North Vietnam and the Viet Cong are in com­plete disarray because of the ap­parent success of President Nixon's "Vietnamization" policy and are anxiously seeking an affective reply, Allied diplo­matic sources said Tuesday. 
The sources-high officials on the Allied side of the Vietnam peace talks-said the United States and South Vietnam be­lieve they are headed for another round of fruitless exchanges with the Communists at the peace table because the Com­munists have not yet clearly de­fined their new policy guide­lines. 
They said they based their feeling that there is disarray in the Communist ranks on a care­ful analysis of information from several sources. 
According to the ir.formantL there would be no move on the part of North Vietnam and the Viet Cong in the coming weeks, 
at  least  not  before  the  Com­ 
munists  had  launched  a  new  
probing  wave  of  attacks  on  

Allied positions in South Viet­nam and assessed their result. 
member, shouted at the mar­
shals: "You  are starting the dis­ 
order."  
Marshals  dragged  the  long  

haired Joyce across the laps of protesting spectators. He fought back. Some spectators clung to Joyce's legs and waist to impede the marshals. 
Carried Out of Room 

Then, as she shouted, "I'm not doing anything-it's another Chicago," Judy Clavir was car­ried out of the room. 
Daley sat quieti} on the wit­ness stand during the outbreak. At a signal from the judge, the jury was taken from the room. Later Hoff man told the jury: "The episode that you have witnessed should not be consid­ered for or against any party in this case. Whatever · occurred should not prejudice you one way or the other." Kunstler moved to have Daley 
declared a hostile witness so that he could be asked leading .ques­tions and cross examined for purposes of proving his testi­mony false. He said the mayor is "in every sense a hostile witness 
to the defendants." 
"He is your witness," Hoff­man replied. "Until he has pro­ven hostile you cannot move to declare him hostile. Daley has been a gentleman and has shown no hostility." 
Daley spoke so softly-mumb­ling his replies at times-that the judge at least six times during the morning session asked him to raise his voice. 
Brief hisses came from specta­tors when the mayor testified that he had advised David Stahl, deputy mayor, to show Yippie leaders "every courtesy" when they sought permits to hold a Festival of Life in Lincoln Park during the convention. 


-Three students hurt 
One Notre Dame and two St. Mary's students were seriously injured in car accidents over the vacation. 
ND senior Ed Hogan and SMC Sophomore Carol Collins were struck by a car last Saturday as they crossed an unmarked inter­section in Chicago's Old Town. 
Both were admitted to Hen­rotin Hospital. Hogan suffered several cracked ribs. Miss Collins was found to have extensive in­ternal injuries and was admitted to the hospital's intensive care unit. 
SMC senior Monica Man­chester Updike was returning from her St. Thomas island 
honeymoon, en route to take· Wales, Florida, when she was hit by a passing ·car. She and her 
husband were attempting to aid a disabled motorist. 
Mrs. Updike is presently ad­mitted to Bethesda Naval Hospi­tal, Bethesda, Maryland with leg injuries. ller husband is ND '69 ah•"llnus Larry Updike. 
YOGA 
Beginning Jan. 8, 1970 
825 Notre Dame Ave. 
6:00, 7:15, 8:30PM. 
Phone 287-3744 

MARDI GRAS '70 



RAFFLE INFORMATION 
FIRST COLLECTION PERIOD FOR RAFFLE RETURNS WILL TAKE PLACE FLOOR REPRESENTATIVES
TONIGHT AND TOMORROW NIGHT (JAN. 7 + '8 ). WILL COME AROUND TO EACH ROOM TO COLLECT. 
IF YOU NEED ADDITIONAL RAFFLE BOOKS AT THIS TIME LET HIM KNOW AND HE WILL GET THEM FOR YOU. 
NOTE-KICKOFF PARTY IS FEBRUARY 4. PLAN TO ATTEND AND START THE MARDI GRAS WEEKEND RIGHT! 
TilE OBJ'ERII!'Il JANUARY 7, 1970
PAGE 8 








Dallas •• a loss, but still number five 
Pictures from the Cotton Bowl tell the story: (top) All four Texas runners combined to devastate the Irish defensive line, especially in the fourth quarter. (middIe) Both quarterbacks turned in fine performances. Joe Thei~mann set Cotton Bowl records for most passing and total yards gained. James Street didn't set any records, but he won the game with some clutch passing. He has never lost a game as Texas' starting quarterback. (bottom) You can't argue with figures. Texas proved that it is the nation's best team and Penn 
State's coach Joe Paterno w'll 
have to wait until next year. 
2 I TE:,~AS o (](): 0 0 t·~ D 11 OOlliN TO 1~0 · BALL Oil (JTf'4 .... TEXAS-NAT lotlAL CHAt1PIOtl·:.l I I! 
REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK 

f~ ~~ IRISE EYE

'f.;:; 
By Mike Pavlin, spurts editor 
I111111111111111111111111IIIIIJIIII1111111111111111111fl1111111111111 
A little housecleaning , please 
Head basketball coach Johnny children at the games, and when Dee is much more than his title I have to apologize to the other states. Besides being the man team's coach. 
who makes the team work, he "It's not that suprising to me has a larger role to fill. On the that there are a few student~: 
road he represents Notre Dame who usc the language, but it's and at home he acts as host. His surpnsmg that there aren't conduct both home and away people in the stands who will reflects ultimately on the school. 
stop them. And what especiallyOn the road Dee is responsible bothers me is that the student's 
for his team, but at home he conduct came during a televised comes to represent the whole game. They get very little university, especially the student 
exposure, one or two football body. 
games and some basketball Several weeks ago I mention­
games, and this reflects terriblyed an article by the South Bend 
on them. We as coaches and Tribune's Joe Doyle pertaining 
players have to be careful and to the outlandish conduct of the 
why cari't the students be Georgia Tech football fans. But 
careful? l don't mind them the Notre Dame fans have 
booing me, but the vulgarity is recently shown that they take a 
ridiculous." back seat to no one when it 
Johnny Dee has a right to be comes to vulgar behavior as upset. The kind of conduct 
spectators. 
exhibited by the students duringSaturday afternoon, Dec. 13, 
the St. Louis game is utterlyi he Irish fans put on one of the inexcusable. No matter what 
finest displays of rotten behavior 
goes on out on the court, vulgar­and vulgar language ever hearu. 
ity is never called for. When St. Louis came out in a 
Freshmen, just because the slowdown offense, the enraged "gross-out" is so wide-spread on fans chose to ignore the fact that 
this campus doesn't mean that this was sound strategy and 
you have to join right in. Upper­proceeded to let the Billikens 
classmen should know better,know it. The organized cheers 
but somehow they don't. I that enamated from the stands 
realize and John Dee realized were hardly parlor room quality. 
that you have a right to yourThis performance from the 
opinions, but you also have a student body called forth some 
duty to yourselves and yourbitter c'"omments from John Dee. 
school. Yesterday, he outlined his 
Tonight, Notre Dame enter­thoughts and worries about 
tains Fordham. And "Notre Notre Dame students. 
Dame" means students as well. "I've heen in 400 gyms all 
If you don't like the Rams' over the country and I've never 
strategy, if you don't like NO's heard vulgarity like this. We're 
performance, if you don't like trying to get people to come and 
the refs' calls, if you don't like 
see the games and many women Coach Dee's moves, by all means 
and children are starting to boo your lungs out. But for your 
follow the team. This kind of own self-respect and out of 
vulgarity is em harrassing to 11ll' 
common decency. please keel· it 
when I have my wife and clean. 


