
35,000 autoworke rs strike G M 
expiration and strike deadlines. No one could be found on either side of the bargaining table who would offer hope of an imme­diate agreement on the UA W 
The Student Union Social '.::ommission, headed by senior Jim Porst, annottnced in an in­terview last night that Home­coming ':ill be October 9 in preparation for the Army game. 
Porst said that there will be two "name" groups performing, but as yet no definite arrange­ments have been made. 
Porst stated that, "Extensive decorations are being planned to accent 'safehouse' themes." A safehouse was a bomb shelter during the war. 
In addition, accordiug tc Porst was the elimination of a homecoming queen. The action, Porst said, stemmed directly from the poll taken last year concerning this topic. The majority of the students seemed indifferent so the event was dropped. 
A lottery is scheduled for the accomodations of the dates and friends of the patrons of the dance. According to Pon-t this system will also be utilized for the selling of the tickets to the game. Voting for the best hail floats is scheduled to take place Friday evening and the winner will be announced :~t the Pep rally Saturday. 
Kate Ma:naux. a senior at SMC', is the chairman for the horne~:oming festivities. The bid will be eight dollars this year instead of the ten dollar price of previous year:;. Porst said that there will be ··carbonated bever­age on lap:' Ticket distribution will he announced at a later date. 
The S.U.S.C., which last ~ ·:ar presented Blood, Sweat, ~~nd Tears, Dionne Warwi~:k, and Sly will produce fewer groups this demands. "far, far apart" and a strike 
U A W President Leonard seemed inevitable. Woodcock and chief GM nego­It appeared both sides were tiator Earl Bramblett met much allowing the situation to drift of the day, but said they were 
(Continued on page 6) 

year. This is due, Porst said, to sented October 17 and Decem­the bookin~ of the groups which 
ber 4. extends into the summer. 
Mardi Gras, scheduled this However, Three Dog Night year for February 3 thru 9, 
will perform at the A.C.C. Sep­features the concert on the fifth. tember 25 for the Purdue game, Porst noted that Grand Funk and Sergio Mendez and Brasil will not return. '66 are scheduled for November The Collegiate Jazz Festival, 7. 
according to Porst, will be March In the fall, two small concerts 
5th and 6th. Porst revealed that two spring concerts, April 3 and arc scheduled to take place at 
May I had been scheduled but
Stepan Center. The bands ha\,e 
groups and performers had as
not yet been announced but the 
yet not been contracted.
shows, Porst said, will be pre-
Pilot intern program go; 
fu II implementation now 
Dean William M. Burke of the three juniors in a role which 
Freshman Year Office, last night Burke termed, 'liaison between 
announced that the pilot "in­the rnan in the dorn1 and the 
tern" program will be "fully freshman year offic.e.'· The 
implemented" this year. three, Jim Kee, Matt Bass, <ll!d The program, which features Dick Terrier, sat in last year un conferences between freshmen and their counselers. According to Burke, the move was made because counsel had been rarely sought in the past, "except when student were in trouble." The program, accord· ing to Burke, was designed to "promote closer, more voluntary communication between student and counselor." Pending the su~:cess of the pilot program Dean Burke said that he might petition Fr. Thomas Chambers, the Director of Student Residence for an innease in funds to expand the program. Dean Burke expressed a desire to increase to at least ten interns next year, and even­tually to one intern per dorm.

DETROIT (UPI) The United Auto Workers strm:k General Motors Corp., the world's largest manufacturing company, at midnight last night after negotiators failed to agree on a new three year contract. 
Contracts also expired at Ford Motor Co.. and Chrysler Corp., previously exempted from a UA W strike. But only union dues checkoffs were stopped at the other two of the Big Three automakers. 
The strike followed 60 days of inconclusive barr•aming that left both sides far apart on basic issues of money, early retire­ment and cost of living allow· a nces. Economists feared a lengthy strike would dama6 .: the uneasy national economy. 
Thousands of UAW members in 16 states picked up prepared picket signs in the third national strike the U A W has called against GM since 1940. 
About 35.000 GM workers at seven plants jumped the gun and walked out before the contract 
Last minute injunction halts railroad walkout 
WASHINGTON (UPI) A federal judge granted the rail­road industry a temporary in­junction barring selective labor strikes against it early this morn­ing, moments after four unions ordered a strike against three major Jines. 
Judge l!owa rd F_Corcoran of the Federal District Court for the District of Columbia signed the order at II :50 p.m. (EDT), saying it prohibited the unions from carrying out a "whipsaw strike" against only certain par­ties they had been bargaining with. 
The industry secured the in­junction in a late night court session begun only minutes after the unions and railroads broke 
Thant suggests no amnesty for air hijackers 
u·~ITED NATIONS (UPI) SecreLary-General Thant said last nighr that aircraft hijackers should be brought before an international tribunal without immunity or amnesty. 
"The situation is likely to change if hijackers are served notice that there will be no immunity or amnesty," Thant told the 25th U.N. anniversary dinner of the lJ .N. Association of the United States of America. 
lie said these hijackers "must be brough l before an interna­l ional tribunal defending the interests of all peoples and na­tions and not of any particular people or nation." 
Thant called aircraft hijacking a "burning example" of the "state of lawlessness in which the world finds itself under present day technological cir­cumstances." 
"It is high time that we go to the root of this phenomenon and treat its causes with novel remedies and not with old-time recipes to which it is largely immune," he said. Than t 's spee~:h was his second major pronouncement of the day. 
1:arlier. while expressing ''cau­tious optimism" about the world situation, he said the oppor­tunity to make peace in the Middle East afforded by the 9 0-day Arab-Israeli ~:ease-fire "may not come again." 
off contract negotiations. 
The unions apparently still 
had the. option of replacing their 
order for a selective strike with 
one for a strike against railroads 
nationwide, but union leaders 
were not immediately available 
for comment. 
Corcoran's temporary re­
straining order will expire at 
I:45 p.m. (EDT) Sept. 23. He set a hearing for I :45 p.m. Sept. 22 on a mot ion for a preliminary injunction against a selective strike. 
An industry source said it was 
unlikely the unions would order 
a nationwide shutdown. 
Contract talks between the 
unions and the industry were 
broken off at II p.m. following 
five days of intensive negotia­
tions, and both sides announced 
an impasse on wage issues. 
The unions immediately or­dered a selective strike for 12:01 
a.m. (EDT) today. 
Officials of the target rail­roads -the Southern Pacific, Chesapeake & Ohio, and Balti­more & Ohio -immediately went to Corcoran. Some 200 railroads were a party to the negotiations. 
Industry officials· said that as of 12:30 a.m. (EDT) Tuesday they had heard of no work stoppages on the target railroads or any others. 
A White House source said President Nixon had no imme­diate intention of exercising his power to order a 60-day strike moratorium. 
C.L. Dennis, President of the Brotherhood of Railway and Airline Clerks, emerged from a late hour bargaining session with news of a deadlock on money issues, and ded:Jred: "That is the issue fairwages." 
Dennis said the clerks, the United Transportation Union, the Union of Maintenance of Way Employes, and Union of Dining C'ar Porters called the selective: strike in the interest of maintaining stability in the na­tional economy. 
Dennis said the N:~tional Rail­way Labor Conference the industry's bargaining agent had offt•red a ·; per cent first year pay raise when the negotia­tions hega n last year. 
He said that package was re­jeL"ted hy the unions and sinn: 
(Continued on page 7) 
Tuesday, September 15, 1970 THE OBSERVER Page 2 
'' d. . I d
PFLP •• uncon .1t1ona surren er'' 
(UPI) --The Popular Front frr the Liberation of Palestine Monday demanded "uncondi­tional surrender" by the Western powers and Israel to its ransom demands for hostages from among the passengers of three hijacked airliners. A statement from Beirut said there would be "unimaginable reprisals" if Israel continued its mass arrests of Arabs in occupied territories. 
The Maoist-oriented Arab guerrilla group is holding 49 or more hostages, mostly Americans, in secret hideouts in Amman, Jordan, to demand the release of seven Arab com­mandos held in Western Europe. Guerrilla sources in Amman said they also sought the release of 600 Arabs from Israel. 
The threat of reprisals came from the extremist spokesmen for the Front in Beirut and were not confirmed by Front spokes­men in Amman. 

~~~~­
0 oQ o o oo o o o ol'-0 ~~~..,_;.•:_..~~~ 
~ ~~~;·· 
···········
I ONlOO PHOTO 
··········· STAMP ~ ONLY$1 
ooooooooooo 
m 
Send us any photograph ...black & white or color, of yourself, your family, friends, pets, anything ...and we'll send you 100 gummed, perforated, stamp-sized 
pictures. You'll find 
ooooooooooo 
m 
many uses for them... seal or sign your letters, identify books and rec­ords. Use them for date­bait, or just for fun. 
To get your 100 photo­
stamps, simply cut the 
oooooooooooo 
m 
name Swingline from any Swingline package. Enclose photo (which will be returned) with cash, check or money­order for $1 and send It with the coupon below. 
It's easy! Buy a 
SwinglineTOT Stapler 
(including 1000 FREE staples and carrying pouch). Larger size CUB Desk Stapler or CUB Hand Stapler only $1.69. Unconditionally guaranteed. At 
stationery, variety, and book stores.
....S.--_.__ -L,__ _11> 
INC. 
)2.00SK Y 11101

r--------------­
1 Swingline Photo-stamp, Dept. ~~ 

I P.O. Box 1125, WoodSide, N.Y. ll.d, 
Enclosed is my photo and cash, c.;hcck orI money-order for $1.00 with lh~ name I Swing1ine from any package. Please ru~h 
me 100 phohl-stam~. 
:>:arne__________ 

Eban said (srael was opposed to exchanging guerrillas im­prisoned in Israel or in Europe for the passengers, but that for humanity's sake Israel would abide by an international agree­ment. At the same time, he denounced the hijackers as a · "plague on the world." 
In Washington, a White House spokesman said the Nixon ad­ministration took the position that Israel's mass roundup of Ardbs was "an independent ac­tion" not directly linked to the sta'.us of the hostages. 
President Nixon was reported deeply concerned for the fate of the hostages and was keeping in constant touch with Middle East developments. 
With the guerrillas apparently hardening their demands, the five nations directly involved ­the United States, Britain, France, Germany and Israel ­asked the Swiss ambassador in Amman, Charles de Bois to ,'x­plorc all possible avenues of negotiation. 
The International Red Cross announced it was resuming its negotiations suspended Saturday night and that it was doing so because all five nations involved had agreed to act in concert. A Vatican envoy also was in Am­man to try to negotiate the hostages release, and the British­Arab Friendship Committee in London sent its own negotiator. 
Just what Switzerland meant by "all possible channels for negotiations" in Amman by their ambassador was not clear. Representatives of Egypt, Su­dan, Algeria and the Arab League were in Jordan to try to negotiate a cease-fire between the guerrilla movement and the Jordanian army, but they return to Cairo today. 
Israel rounded up 450 Ambs 

in the occupied West Bank and 
the Gaza Strip this weekend, but 
Foreign Minister Abba Eban told 
a news conference in Tel Aviv 
they were not seized to force the 
return of hostages. Israel re­
leased 75 of them Monday, leav­
ing about 3,700 Arabs in Israeli 
jails. 
There were conflicting reports on the number of hostages in guerrilla hands. The Popular Front used the figure 39 then changed it to 49. Lists compiled by the three airlines involved in the hijackings, TWA, Swissair and BOAC, said 57 passengers and crew were not accounted for. 
In Washington, White House Press Secretary Ronald L. Zieg­ler said in a statement that "the holding of U.S. citizens host<~ge is totally unacceptable to the United States government. I think it goes without saying that we deplore and denounce the holding of hostages by any na­tion." 
Ziegler said the United States has no indication that the ap­proximately 450 Palestinians pic.:ked up during the weekend by the Israeli government were being held hostage for the re­lease of the hijack victims. 
Israeli Foreign Minister Abba Eban denied to newsmen iP Tel Aviv earlier yesterday that his government was rounding up its own hostages to bargain with the hijackers. 
But Ziegler's statement that the United States denounces the holding of hostages by any na­tion appeared to be aimed at getting the U.S. position on rec­ord in the event the Israelis decided to use the 450 Pales­
tinians as hostages for the release or niJacl< victims. Ziegler repeated that the U.S. objective is to "obtain release of 
all passengers being held by the hijackers" regardless of their na­tioriali ty. 
The United States has been 

somewhat restrained in its state­
ments on the hijackings for fear 
of upsetting the delicate diplo­
matic negotiations under way 
for several days to obtain release 
of the hijack victims. 
Because of the unusual blunt­

ness of the White House state­
ment, Ziegler was asked if he 
were laying the grounnwork for 
some future U.S. action against 
the guerrilla hijackers. 
"I'm not making this state­ment to lay the groundwork for any action but I think it is important to make the U.S. posi­tion understood," Ziegler said. 
Agnew say.s Nixon has increased international respect for the US 
LA3 \' EGAS' Nev. (UPI) ­Vice President Spiro T. Agnew said y~.:sterday the silent ma­jority would roust the small b ·md of radical liberals in ( ongress this November. 
Agnew, surrounded by secret service and uniformed sheriffs deputies, told an airport crowd of more than 5,000 persons in 
this  gambling  resort  that  the  
respect  for  Congress  was  the  
lowest in five years.  

"The voice of the silent majority will be heard in Nevada and across the country," said the Vice President. "The paramount issue is whether a little band of radical liberals succeeds in 
--.......~......,~...,....~......,~~"""'""""......,.,..frustrating the majority." 
"But the great majority is the silent majority which will be silent no longer," said Agnew. "The silent majority will act in the traditional WilY by making themselves heard at the polls." 
Agnew said when Nixon was elected president, that inter­national respect for the United States was at an all time low. He said, due to Nixon, respect was growing in capitals of the world. 
Agnew said that when Nixon was elected president , respect for law and order was crumbling and "there was danger of making laws in the streets. And respect for American valor was col­lapsing." 
He said Nixon had changed the trend "despite grandiose schemes of some Democrats and a little hand of obstructionists in Congress." 
~~;;;;~ww~~~ 
ombudsman (om-badz-man) n.-pi.-MEN-an appoin­ted public official who investigates activities of government agencies that may infringe on the rights of individuals. 
WEBSTER'S NEW WORLD DICTIONARY 
now you know what it is, use it. 
the ombudsman service 2-5 phone 7638 
Agnew, here to campaign for Republican senate candidate Wil­liam Raggio, urged voters to "see to it the United States is kept strong enough for the President to bring an honorable end to the war in Southeast Asia." He urged voters to elect a "congress which will stop waves of pornography and moral pol­lution and assure it will never be the wave of the future." 
Agnew will address a $1 00 a plate dinner tonight at the Sahara Hotel after attending a $1,000 a person reception at the Desert Inn Hotel. 
Agnew was met at the airport by top Nevada Republicans in­cluding Gov. Paul Laxalt, Lieut. Gov. Ed Fike and State Repub­lican Chairman George Abbott. 
Some 40 school buses trans­ported 3,000 students to the airport for Agnew's arrival. Most of the signs in the crowd were for Raggio, but a few read "Peace Now", "Get Out of Viet nam," "Bring Our Troops Home" and "Stop the War." 
Cost of sending student to Indiana colleges varies 
INPIANAPOUS ("UP!) -The Wayne, $2,750; Rose Poly­
basir cost lf s.:nding a student to college or university in Irdiana .anges from $1,440 a · !ar al Concordia Senior College 
Jf Fort Wayne and Indiana State University at Terre Haute to $3,450 at DePauw University of Greencastle and Earlham Col­leg of ichmond. 
That was the report Monday of the Life Insurance Agency 1\:anagement Association, which conducts an annual survey. 
The basic cost includes tuition and fees, room and board. The totals as listed by the association compared with a national me­dian charge for public colleges of $1 ,234 and a national average for private schools of $2,502. 
The Indiana school costs: De­Pauw University, Greencastle, $3,450; Earlham College, Rich­mond, $3,450; St. Mary's Col­lege of Notre Dame $3,300; Wabash College, Crawfordsville, $3,075; University of Notre Dame, $3,050; Frdnklin College, 
$2,840. 
Valparaiso University, $2,709; Hanover College, $2,640; St. J oseph's College, Rensselaer, $2,630; Butler University, ln­dianapolis, $2,600; Taylor Uni­versity, Upland, $2,600; Indiana 
Institute of Technology, Fort 
ltle Observer Is publiShed dally 
during the college semester except 
v~~atlons by the students of the 
Unlv•slty of Notre Dame and st. 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may 
be purchased for $8 from '-The
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame 
Ind., 46556. Second cl1115 Postate 
Nkl, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 

technic Institute, Terre Haute, $2, 550; Huntington College, $2,440; Goshen College, $2,380; Manchester College, North Man­chester, $2.360; Indiana Central College, Indianapolis, $2 .300; St. Mary of the Woods College, Terre Haute, $2,250; Anderson College, $2, 190; Marion College, $2,180; Bethel College, Misha­waka, $2,171; Tri State College, Angola, $2,133; University of Evansville, $2,124; Fort Wayne Bible College, $1,975; St. Fran­cis College, Fort Wayne, $1,905; 
Oakland City College, $1 ,877; St. Meinrad College, $1,845; Purdue University, West Lafay­ette, $1 ,760; Indiana University, Bloomington, $1,591; Ball State University, Muncie, $1,530; Concordia Senior College, Fort Wayne, $1 ,440; Indiana State University, Terre Haute, $1 ,440. 
Hogs jam Chi. 
expreSSWay 

CHICAGO (UPI)-Police and volunteers from a riding stable spent the Monday morning traf­fie rush rounding up hogs on the Calumet Expressway at the Kingery Junction near suburban Lansing. 
State police said about 75 

hogs escaped from a truck en route to Chicago when the driver apparently lost control of the truck in bad weather and ran off the road. Police said the driver 
• 

Ernest Bretzinger, Rensselaer, I Ind., was slightly injured. 

Page 3 

Tuesday, September 15, 1970 THE OBSERJJER. 
Vote expected on direct election bill 

in the Senate. D. Tydings, (D-Md.), are spon­
versial proposal, already ap­expressed a willingness to cut offWASHINGTON (UPI) -Both 
As House soring a proposal eliminating thefurther debate. ''I'm willing to approvea oy rne
sides expressed readiness yester­proved by the House, to a vote and as sponsored by Bayh, the runoff.
day for an early Senate vote -with cloakroom negotiations vote any time," Bayh told re­amendment would abolish the Under their amendment, if nopossibly later this week -on a between Sen. Birch Bayh, porters. "And the other side says Electoral College and substitute candidate got 40 per cent of theconstitutional amendment pro­(D-Ind.), chief sponsor, and they have no intention of fili­direct election of the president vote, but if the leading candidate viding for direct, popular elec­Sens. Strom Thurmond, bustering." 
and vice president on a one could command a majoritytion of presidents. (R-S.C.), and James B. Allen, Debate on the historic amend­man-one vote basis. under the present electoral sys­Senate leaders worked behind (D-Ala.), the leading opponents. ment, already approved by the If no candidate got at least 40 tem, he would be declared the the scenes to bring the contro-Both Bayh and the opponents House, was in its second week 
per cent of the vote, a runoff winner. In case no candidate got between the top two would de­either 40 per cent of the popular cide the winner. vote or a majority of electoral 
The first key test was likely to votes, then a joint session of the come on a substitute for the House and Senate, with each runoff provision. Sens. Robert P. member having one vote, would Griffin, (R-Mich.), and Joseph elect the president. 
VC foreign minister offers private talks 
PARIS (UI'I)-Madame Ngu­She made it clear that in -,en Thi Binh, the Viet Cong's returning to Paris she brought foreign minister, ended her three with her no change in the Viet month boycott of the Vietnam Cong's traditional negotiating peace talks Monday and prompt­position. She demanded the lv offered to go into secret l'nited States "put an end to its l:argaining with the United <Jggression, pu1 out all its troops, 
jtates. U.S. diplomats have de­and leave the :iouth Viftnamese clined .mch talks. people free o determine their 
Tal .(ing with newsmen at Orly own hture. Airfield the diminutive, raven­haired ·'iet Cong foreign policy Proxmire says spok~sman, however, ruled out any possibility of making peace Pentagon dupes wi ~h the American-backed S..!i­
gon regime. the taxpayers "We are ready again, as we t·ave always said before, to have 
WASHINGTON , UPI)-Sen. private talks with the United 
William Proxmire, D., '.Vis., said State; here in Paris witP ll view 
yesterday the Pentagon is duping
The new Biology buildin·g looks complete on the outside to the viewer. 
of settling the problem uf Viet­taxpayers hy "pretending'· to cut the military budget while
nam," Madame Binh said. 
actually feeding inflation
She served notice she was not thro11gh excessiv!'! f,1ending. 

interested in tlle forthcoming "The PentagJn is suffering
April finish set for Bio. building 
visit of South Vietnamese Vice 
By Mike Slattery President Ng 1yen Cao Ky, 'rom a case uf split personali­ty, " Prox:aire said in a Senate
whose schedul, d trip tn Paris speech. '·A statement that noAlthough the new Life Gordon. "It will provide decent tions from the government the had sparked 1 ~ports in Asian cuts c .1
Sciences Center near the Memo­teaching space and redress the National Science Foundation diplomatic circles the tv'O war be made in the military 
buclc,.:t by one spokesman is
rial Library appears externally need for teaching Ia bora tories. and HEW, while the remainder is ring South Vietnamese factions runtracted by the statements offinished, the building is still The first floor and the base­being financed by private dona­might be planning to start resolv­a different 'Pokesman ... whilescheduled to be completed in ment of the new structure will tions. ing their differences. 
pretendinr: to cut back hard on
April, 1971. be almost entirely utilized for military spending, they are in­Accoriding to Dr. Robert Gor­teaching purposes whicle the top sisting on keeping the presentdon, Associate Director of the two floors will be used for grad­
Gordon named to high post 
budget level intact."
College of Science, the building uate research and offices. The Proxmire said the Defense De­will house both the biology and building will provide a whole Dr. Robert E. Gordon, pro­scientific community itself. partment plans to save $1 0microbiology departments, but series of modern facilities that fessor of biology and associate He also serves on the United billion by reducing troopthe department will not move had to be improved in the old dean of the College of Science, States National Committee of strength to 2.5 million andinto thelf new quarters until building, built in 193 7. The was elected to the Executive the International Union of Bio­trimming spending in Vietnam.
next summer. facilities include radiosotope Committee of the Board of Gov­logical Sciences and is a member But Proxmire, one of theequipment, a central radiation ernors of the American Institute of the Pacific Sciencto Associa­Senate's most persistent critics"The Life Science Center will study source, an aquarium and a of Biological Sciences at its re­tion's Standing Committee for of military spending, said theessentially put on a modern basis life science library. 
cent meeting in Bloomington. science information. money apparently saved will beall of the on-going functions of When completed, the building The Institute represents 43 Gordon has taught at Notre used for "new military gadgets." 
the biology and microbiology will cost abolut $4 million. Half specialized societies embracing Dame since I 958, and has served "Let us tum a deaf ear to thedepartments," according to Dr. the cost is being footed by dona­
60,000 biologists, and acts as a both as acting head of the biolo­siren song of those who speakspokesman for the scientists to a 
gy department and editor of the for the Pentagon and their indus­
variety of governmental and 
American Midland Naturalist. trial allies," Proxmire said. 
Labor and business urge 
non-governmental groups. Gor­don, a member-at-large of the 
i II !' / i/,· ! l;/,1.: .., l \ n ~ l 'l \ i ' '­
Board of Gove.rnors since 1969, will serve a three-year term. ..()Jl/11\ I){ flU I IJ{ 1/'1!/. \ i 
Currently, the Institute is in­1. 1/f/\/( :•.; & !'/\ }/,j\ I ON 1\U(JI/ /!I (Ill.: I I ill\'­
defeat of leaded gas tax 
WASHINGTON (TJPI) -The with older can. AFL-CIO and U.S. Chamber of Both backers showed up yes­creasing its commitment to the l 1R 1, r .\JU ·< no' uJ ieru I' w. 1.-.. 
development of information
Commerce, usually on opposite terday for the ad ministration's 1/1.\ }· U/1/I'N 1!\IiNI'\/1\t, III liS 
lead tax intended to encourage retrieval systems for biological
sides of most economic issues, teamed yesterday to urge defeat refiners to switch to low lead, or scientists. Gordon, whose re­STANDARD SURPLUS COMPANY non-leaded fuel. search interests include ecology,
of President Nixon's $1.1 billion 
population dynamics and 405 West Sample Street
air anti-pollution proposal to tax Using lead to boost octane ratings is less expensive than cold-blooded vertebrates, has
lead gasoline additives. 
Andrew J. Biemiller, or­other refining methods, and the long been a proponent of better OPI ' I.\;~~ "\:Of\ \1 Clli. -Ft I. 
ganized labor's chief lobbyist, administration wants to dis­communication between scien­S:30· • l ~.00 ~;Jt. 
courage use of lead which it~-,~ tists and laymen, and within the 
told the House Ways and Means Committee the tax, which would could cause a future health -¥Jf..'ll~~,...~fJIL.\l-¥.llUII~IlUI,...Jt~~;?.~~m~~§~~~~~W~R!!I!:ml;~;!~;~;~;~;~;~;~;~;ozo:ow.o:ozo:~ 
add about two to three cents a hazard. ...... .E'quality • 
The two witnesses also op-gallon on leaded fuel, would be 
"a license to pollute if you pay posed two other provisions of Fraternity All interested in being aNixon's tax package -a one Poetry
the price." In separate testimony, Walker year continuation of the· I 0 per Chimes 
Winter, a board member of the cent telephone and 7 per cent S M • L · DOME photographer 
auto excise taxes, both due to t. ary S 1terary
chamber, the nation's largest business organization, said the drop to 5 per cent Jan. I; and a M · 
speedup of estate tax collec-agazme Meeting Wednesday 7 PM proposed levy "is a penalty tax 
on leaded gasoline" that would tions. The total tax package is rganizationa] Meetin raise the price of gasoline by projected to boost Treasury 
revenues this fiscal year by $3.2 Tonight, 7:30
about 6 per cent. He also said 4th f1oor LaFortune the tax would put the greatest billion. Rm. 124 Made]eva burden on low income groups 
Page 4 Tue~-::tay, September 15, 1970
THE OBSEBUEB. 

THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper DAVID C. BACH,lditor GAI:Tt\NO M De SAPIO, Publisher FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Fr. Robert Griffin 
Corby's cannabis 

Last Sunday evening, "Nhile dining with the Religious Commumty in Corby Hall, I was treated by a dear frienr; a~.d classmate to the news of Nature's mischief-rr.aking among our Lady's shrubs 
on campus. "A marijuana plant was found growing her­abouts," he said, "at the foot of Father Corby's statue." He immediately added, as though ad­dressing a habitual spiller of the Community's beans, "Don't breathe a word." Hot rivets screwed into the living flesh, I assured him, couldn't separate me from his little secret. "I wouldn't be surprised,'" he said splenetically, "if you were dumb enough to preach homilies about it." I assured him that even with simple-minded folk like me. the proclamation of the Good News involves truths more transcendent than the spon­~aneous generation of herbifera at this University. So he told me the story. One of the retired priest-professors, a specialist on wild life, had 
noted in his scientific cataloguing of the trees and plants on campus, the places where marijuana was growing wild. One such place, he discovered, was 
at the base of the Corby statue. 
Father William Corby, one feels, was not the kind of man who would have enjoyed havin~ his memorial desecrated by the presence of illicit weeds. A Holy Cross priest who served as a chaplain during the Civil War, he afterwards returned to Notre Dame to serve as president of the University. His statue, standing in front of C'•Jrby Hall, the home of many priest-faculty and administrators, is a duplicate to a statue on the battlefield at Gettysburg, where he gave general absolution to the Union troops. William Corby, surely, is no one for Mother Nature to horse 
a-ound with. 
Corby's secret would probably have eventually perished with my own demise if I had not, later that night, run into one of our local pot-heads named Joe. In the give-and-take of a conversation that quickly veered towards the psychodelic, I learned that it was not only at the verdigrised feet of the Civil War Chaplain that the grass grows greener. 
Sometime last May, as Joe told me the story, the local nabobs of the pot trade decided to celebrate the rites of spring by planting a mari­juana crop here on campus. As landmarks for their garden spots, and as a way of indulging their own sense ·of ironic mischief, these young philistines decided to use the campus statues as seeding-places 
for their wicked little patches. These graven images ;ncJuded such local and celestial notables as Corby, Sorin, Edward the Confessor, and the Blessed v·rgin Mary, not to mention the burial monu­m.:nts in the Community cemetery behind Holy Cross Hall. 
The story was, I thought, of doubbful authen­
Letters to the Editor 
ticity, illustrating the kind of non-conformist "flippancy that some students might wish would Editor:symb<'t--..: their undergraduate resistance to tradi­I could only expect the illus­tion and the Establishment. Nevertheless, any kind trious Mr. DeSapio to espouseof irreverence is possible on the drug scene, and such comical rhetoric in a fan­one would not be surprised these days to find a ciful satire on the FRESHMANmarijuana plant sprouting, like concupiscence in YEAR OF STUDIES DEPT. The the convent, among the lillies on the altar. 
basic malady which afflicts Mr.
So, last evening, I decided to check out the DeSapio is his status as an upperdetails of Corby among the cannabis with the classman, and subsequently, hisretired priest-professor, the cataloguer of trees and lack of contact with the Fresh­plants, who had first noted the weed of outrage on man year!
the pedestal of glory. 
To banty about the subject of"As the owner of a young dog who sometimes the necessity of the Dean ofused the campus statuary for his own kind of Freshman Year in such an un­outrage," I said, "I would like to know if the story concerned manner is truly indic­

is true." 

ative of a boy vying for the"It is t•ue that I found the marijuana growing," 
attention of a seemingly
he said, 'but it happened nearly fifteen years already-captive audience. Impli­ago." 
cit in the Observor"editorial" ofI am afraid that I will never be known as which I am speaking is the infer­another Father Brown, Detective, not as long as ence that the personnel in themy dear friend and classmate feeds my curiosity Freshman Year Office (FYO) areon stale gossip from a fifteen year-old vintage. I procedurally-bound, statistically­also suspect that I have been treated badly by the entrapped, ego-trippers whosestudent named Joe. Whatever else our under­obfect is to twist and ply theground community in pot may have been up to, I characters of newly-arriveddoubt that they turned out for the spring plowing, Frosh with no room for devia­though I shall always breathe deeply whenever I tion from the norm, This seemsam in the presence of Corby, Sorin, St. Edward to be the typical reaction to anythe Confessor, or the Blessed Virgin Mary. 
process which alleviates theIn the meantime, some of you might visit the mechanics of systemizing andGrotlo to check out the story for yourself. You the problems incurred in themight be surprised at what you find waiting for matriculation of a college stu­you there. 
dent. Speaking from personal ex-
Cliff Wintrode 
All together now 
The recent squash of the Purdue Exponent by their disgruntled Board of Trustees is the latest example of increasing political repression of the student press from state legislatures, Boards of Trustees, and town councils. 
The summer Exponent rekindled the story of the Trustees 31,000 payoff to an Ohio State University professor not to come to Purdue after being approved by everyone from the president on down because he was considered too radical hy the Board. Waiting until a few weeks before school, the Trustees notified the Exponent that their lease was being cancelled. The Exponent's only hope is that student pressure will suffice to let the presses roll again. 
The Purdue prcsiden( told Exponent editor Stephanie Salter th~t "if you had not done that (the story) this (the squash) would never have happened." 
University of California student newspapers may not be so fortunate. The Board of Rtgent~ there are making an apparently successful attempt to shut off all funds to all these papers by the 
end of the first semester. Stale university newspapers in New York are receiving a tremendous amount of hassle and intimidation. Student newspapers in the other parts of the country have also received static. 
The political repression is backlash harvested in being at the front covering a society ripping itself apart and consequently the student and underground press has been the first to feel the repressive bites of a frightened power structure. Beyonn mentioning that this is not surprising in a society whose administration is an ardent champion of preventive detention, no-knock police practices, and wiretapping, it is obvious that the student press has radically redefined its purpose 
L f 
for existence. 
A student newspaper is now thought by many members of the student press to be a vehicle for intense!} exploring the whys and wherefores of the university and generally the same of society. Cone are the days of "bulletin board" c~llege newspapers. 
The barometer of success is no longer how many campus events 
miljor and minor are covered, but the amount of hassle received 
from angry and scared people in power. 
As one editor said at the United States Student Press Assu•:iation's 
Annual Congress two weeks ago, "If the ~hit's not coming Llown on 
you, you're a failure." 
Even the traditionally safe commercial press is getting very worried after the left right combination of Vice-President Spiro Agnew and Attorney General John Mitchell. Mitchell has been the first attorney general to threaten the violation of the immunity from sub-poenas and testifying before private grand juries that is necessary for a free and inquisitive press. The student press has already had these basic safeguards violated by state and federal authorities. 
There is a strong feeling among college editors that the student 
press either gets together now in common opposition to repressive 
administrators, Boards of Trustees, and state legislature~ or ··ace 
annihilation. 
Some members of the student press have been fighting for their 
lives for quite awhile now, and the commercial press is just no'N 
entering the combat arena. This year only promises more fighting 
and student editors fee! it is either "united we stand or divided we 
fall" for the student press. We could also use a little help from our 
press friends. 
perience and frequent obser­vation of the FYO, I can readily commend the work of Dean Wm. Burke and his crew. I fail to see any legitimate case against the existence of the FYO nor plausible solution suggested in that trite, editorialized "feature" of no journalistic merit. Perhaps 
a case for the FYO may be realized when it is considered that the department frees the newly-arrived student to ponder academic and socio-political questions which are foreign to him rather than be entrapped in the necessary but time­consuming clerical work which-is encountered in three subsequent years of academia. In what over­worked and under-staffed condition would be the various departments which are currently beset with similar burdern if suddenly an additional 1750 students descended upon them? 
No, Mr. DeSapio, I suggest that you turn your attention back to the publishing of the Observor and leave considera­
tion of university structure to those who are more qualified to consider it. 
Thomas S. Hamilton '73 University of Notre Dame Rome, Italy Editor's Note: The Observer is 

spelled correctly with an "e", a point which Hamilton failed to note in his freshman year. 
Business Manager: Bruce Rieck Advertising Manager: Bruce Barker Campus Editor: Glen Corso News Editor: Ji[Tl Holsinger Asst. News Editor: Ed Ellis SMC News Editor: Jeanne Sweeney Features Editor: T. C. Treanor Sports Editor: Terry Shields 
Associate Editors:Sue Bury, Ann Conway, Steve Hoffman, Dave Lammers, Cliff Wintrode 
Night Editor: Steve Lazar Layout Design: Dave Bach, Glen Corso Layout: Glen Corso, Dave Bach, Steve Lazar Headlines: Cliff Wintrode Night Controller: Harold Taegel Ad layout: Jim Flanagan 
The opinions In the editorials, news 
llnalyses, and columns of The Observer are solely those of the authors cmCI 'ditors of The Observer and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame their admini~tr.;tions, faculty or student 
bodies. 
Tuesday, September 15, 1970 THE OBSERfiER. Page 5 
Fic tion ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;'::::.:· ·=~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Collapsing through a Brute Strength 
\___ by Gene MiiineJli 
It was Sunday night and the section, as well as the dorm, was settling down after a weekend of joyous hilarity. Contented faces populated the shower stalls and hallways. There were serene faces with tongues swinging gracefully from ear to ear as big, dull, reddened eyes cheerfully and independently moved to and fro. 
My friends were among that group of happy people. They sat in a room, gently sipping beer and quietly trading old stories of great religious experiences, while in the background the television silently blared forth the Jet-Cowboys game. 
I left them there at ll : 30 and returned to my own room. Quickly I undressed and donned my sedate red flannel pajamas. I turned off the light and skillfully maneuvered myself through the dark; feeling my way past my locker, by a chair, around the bar, over the divan, through the beaded curtain, under the low-hanging chandelier and into the far walL I recovered consciousness at I I :47 and went to bed. 
Suddenly there were lights everywhere: white light, florescent light, sun light, flash light, bright light and no light. Then, as if in a vision, I saw my friends floating about the room. John alighted on my bed and in a strange high voice (which was remarkably like his own) began to serenad,• me with the gentle strains of his favorite song: 
Bear down, Chicago Bears ......... while closeby Larry stood with his hands together in a prayerful attitude and his eyes looking up to heaven as he repeated over and over again the magic formula: Budweiser, budweiser. Budweiser, budweiser. Budweiser... 
And behold! as he said these words the great Otto appeared riding in on the shoulders of that other Titan, Elmo, and together, in a display of sheer brute strength, they collapsed to the floor exhausted. 
And while I watched, John turned into a prancing phantasm with delicate wings and angel hair. And he looked at me with his beautiful pointed ears and a menacing grin, and he said, "Why don't you go to sleep? You have an eight o'clock class tomorrow." And I was sp-eechless because I did not know the answer. 
Then Larry in a state of mystic frenzy picked up a projectile and lo! it was my shoe. And he did hurl the metamorphic missle at a wall which was a closet and when the shoe hit the wall which was a closet it changed direction and then alighted on the floor. And all marvelled that this was so. 
Then Larry in a state of nausea picked up my remaining shoe, and lo! it became a projectile by his hand. And the shoe which was a projectile hit the wall which was a closet and awoke the twins which were asleep and Elmo arose from the floor like someone arising from the dead and John proclaimed: "Yes, uh .... " And all nodded their heads and knew he was right. 
Then John rose from my bed ;md Otto laughed to scP. him a11C: Otto sail!, "Shtevunlikmistanes" and they all laug~P.d beeau~P. thai. ·.vas ft:nny. 
Suddenly f saw I was crying because the dock said 2:30 and I didn't like c~ocks that said that. And while I wasn't looking the clock changed into the giant form of John bending over me with a pillow poised over his head and the pillow began to look more and more like a chair. ' 
Suddenly nothing happened, and seeing that they had all gone away I finally fell asleep. ' 
0 Irish Comix .•.by Smil{ng Ed 


OBSERVER 
FEATURES 
Re a] ity :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:; 
The f'iurdering of the Innocents 
by Bob Mastro 

And so, in a surge of greed, the decree 
went out from behind closed doors that 
every male child was to have been · slaughtered ... 
... and on the other side of the doors­
-left and right go the ivy curtains and up 
flashes the blue and gold image on the 
white silk screen (in super panavision). In 
large looming block letters, big as moun­
tains arising out of the dawn, NOTRE 
DAME. A kind of stale essence eau de 
Cecil B. De Mills and Charlton Heston, 
but enough so as to induce the same 
spinal chills and spasms experienced when 
the Eagle landed on the moon. 
Down the avenue of trees like duck­
lings, around the circle in a continuous 
carpet of buses and cars come all the 
eyes, fidgeting and squinting through the 
tops of trees to catch a glimpse of it. The 
Dome -the Golden Dome. Like a wand, a 
sincere wave from the sincere campus 
guard breaks the shining illusion of the 
moment, and the parade marches on... 
... past the golf course, and beyond the 
ROTC building, and from the driver's 
right side come the reactions of the 
mothers. Oh, the moms! The wonderful 
little ladies full of concern and tears, 
ready to shed both at any moment, here 
to make sure their son maintains all the 
comforts of home. The moms, in all 
shapes and sizes, sighing in a tone of 
relief, "What a nice guard, Herbert will be 
well cared for. What a nice golf course, 
Herbert will always have something to do. 
What a nice ROTC building, Notre Dame 
isn't like those other colleges. Father 
Hespbourg will keep things in hand. What 
a nice ... " (Until she gets to her son's 
room and then it's the morning t.v. soap 
opera all the way through. The door 
opens and there's the other group: Man­
fred, 6 ft. 2", 2401bs. Manfred's mother 
has already picked out the bottom bunk, 
has curtained the windows, has bed­
-spreaded the bunks and has chosen for 
her son the least battered of the two 
desks, having gone to the pain of even 
switching drawers. They introduce one 
another and it begins.) 

"I hope you don't mind us getting 
things arranged for the boys." (Note the 
use of boys instead of boy. A high school 
grad, no doubt.) "I told Manfred just to 
go ahead and settle into the closest little 
thing rather than be concerned with 
evaluating and choosing things in the 
room. I hope you don't mind. (Pause) If 
there's any disagreement, I'm sure Man­
fred won't mind a switch or two. 
Well, we have a luncheon engagement 
with the football line coach, so please 
excuse us; we'll be seeing you later I'm 
sure." 

''I'M sure." (It might be well to note 
here that not one word has been emitted 
from a male mouth. And only a bit more 
from Herbert's mother. Of course the 
father's sole purpose is driver so that is 
understandible in his case. But the moth­
er...) 

Bloodpressure is up to maximum, a 
few undetected foreign phrases precipi­
tate, and then she starts. "Well. (A 
moment to collect her thoughts and 
organize line of attack.) She certainly has 
a lot of nerve, walking in and taking over. 
Curtains. Ben spread. And look at them. 
They are absolutely hideous. (The ones 
she has given to Herbert are brown and 
purple fleck with bleach stains.) Just who do they think they are, that's what I'd like to know. Well, don't worry about this, Herbie, we won't let them push us around. I'll go talk to the rector immedi­ately and arrange another room." (Her­bert's mother was also instrumental in the choosing of Paris for the peace talks. Herbert all this time has heard nothing. Like he couldn't care less.) 
Now the husband intervenes serenely. "Later, Dear. Let's go see the Grotto." 
The Grotto. "Oh, look, Dear. Isn't the Grotto just...nice. I thought the Grotto was an old beat up -oh, never mind." Then around to the new dorms. "Why didn't our Herbert get one of those rooms? Let's go see somebody and get him one." Immediately the father mo­tions to a long hair crossing the street and starts to ask, but teasus interruptus is caused by a matronly shove in the ribs. "Don't be silly dear." 
In the meantime the parade continues. In neat rows the cars converge on the parking lot... behind the bookstore. In droves the sheep come to the slaughter­house. It draws them in like tacks to a magnet. And they buy. To fill the empty s~ace.s on the trip home, they buy. They fill lists. Blessed are the Ignorant for Hammes shall bleed them unknowingly. Souvenirs, like plunder, must be returned to relatives and friends in demonstration of their presence in Domeland. 
So they buy. They buy the ND mon­ogram on whatever it is placed: be it sweat shirt, night shirt, beer mug, baseball cap, football, bib, apron, scarf, mittens, toothpaste, stationery, pictures, maps. They buy. Blessed are the ignorant for they lower themselves beyond the lowest caste, to the state of non-sense and non-perception. "This pen with the ND monogram: supposed to be a pretty good pen, is it?", inquires the triple-chinned frame from behind a cigar and a pair of black-rimmed bifocals. (Now the checker's almost gon­na say, "No sir, this pen cost Mr. Hammes six cents and the oil from your thumb will wear off the monogram in about a day, just before the pen starts dripping ink and the clicker stops working.") "Yes sir, I suppose." And he grabs ten. The store (and I use the word "store" very freely -I mean loosely) is full of these incessant grabbers with their horn rim­med glasses and cameras slung over their shoulder, and campus maps tucked in under their armpits. Trinkets with the monogram, books priced 6.02x 1023 per cent above list and banners, pennants, and buttons; and they buy, and the registers vollied and thun­dered...in Hammes fjelds. And they stand on line like cattle, and they pay. 
The rest of Orientation is rather anti­-climactic and monotonous after such a hurrah and display. And nobody finds time to hit the art gallery, and no one makes more of the library than a detour on the way to and coming back from. No matter, they'll all cherish their memories of Notre Dame. It will be a long time before they forget their visit at the Dome and it was worth it. (Wasn't it, Mr: Hammes?) A finely gilded illusion. And they'll all be travelling home on credit cards. The Lord giveth, and Hammes taketh away. So be it. 


r:r;::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;.;:;:::;:;~:~:::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;t~ 
eastman color 

---to help you with any complaint, 
j 
:~;~:THOSE WISHlN(~ TO SUBMIT BUDGETS~~~~ 
SEE BOTH AT 8:30 

question or problem m: FOR CONSJOFRATION BY THE @1 FINANCE COMMITTEE FOR 1970-71, @: the ombudsman servJt'e .~~~~ PLEASE CONTACT: :~~~: 
:l~l! STUDENT BODY ti
2-5 weekdays 

::~:: TREASURER'S OFFICE :~:~: 2nd f1oor Jafortune ;m; PHON£ 7750 !il~i
7638 

:~~~: By Friday, Sept. 18 :~~~: 1.\L.........~...~......."-4.........+ ...,...............~,...............~,......~,_ ~:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;::::::::~:=:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::;:$;:;:;:;:~ 
CHICAGO (UPI) -Attorney William Kunstler, defender of the Chicago 7 and civil rights activist, says the Chicago con­spiracy trial was a "conscious effort" by the federal govern­ment to kill dissent in the coun­try. 
In an interview with Playboy Magazine appearing in the Octo­ber issue Kunstler was asked if he agreed with a statement made by Rennie Davis, one of the Chicago defendants, who said the whole New Left movement of the '60s was on trial in Chicago. 
"Yes," Kunstler said. "This was a conscious effort by the government to use what it consi­ders a legal process to attempt to kill a movement." 

New AWOL regs. for servrces 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-The er is classified as anyone who is Pentagon said yesterday it will AWOL for more than 30 days, is start using computers and cash absent for any period when rewards in dealing with deserters guilty of the Uniform Code of and servicemen who go AWOL. Military Justice or seeks asylum 
New regulations, signeJ Aug. in a foreign country. 24 by Deputy Defense Se.::retary A serviceman is considered David Packard, for the first time AWOL under the new rules brought all branches of the when he is absent without armed forces under a unified authority for fewer than 30 system for handling deserters days. and those absent without official The regulations set up a $15 leave AWOL, a Pentagon spokes­cash reward for the apprehen­
man said. sion and detention of absentees, 
Under the new rules, a desert-deserters or escaped prisoners. It also set a reward of $25 for anyone capturing and returning to the military an absentee or deserter. 
But Packard said no one could a $15 and a $25 
brief walkouts at the trim plant 
in Windsor, Ont., and the Cadi!­
a 

CHAL.L.ENGE US 
lac assembly plant in Detroit,
garden 
but workers there later returned
of . 
to their jobs. 
sensuality 

Kunstler said he consented to the Playboy interview "solely" because Playboy reaches a large audience, many of whom -per­haps most of whom -have not been exposed to the types of movement politics we've been discussing." 
"My basic attitude toward Playboy, my deepest feelings are that the magazine symbolizes so much that is utterly deplorable 
in  America  today,'.  Kunstler  
said.  
"Not only  does it serve as  a  

slick showcase for the crass and destructive materialism that has transformed the early American dream of an egalitarian society into the cruelest of illusions, but it demeans and degrades women in a manner as inequitable as it is gross." 
THB OBSERVER. Tuesday, September 15, 1970 LBJ to aid Texas Dems 
AUSTIN, Tex. (UPI) -Texas Democrats, under renewed pres­sure from the state's surging Republican Party, have sum­moned former President Lyndon 
B. Johnson out of political semi-retirement to come to the aid of his party. 
CITE PARTY UNITY 

Sup porters of Democratic Senate nominee Lloyd M. Bent­sen, Jr., and Gov. Preston Smith say Johnson's reappearance in Texas politics is a happy indica­tion of solid party unity. 
HOPE FOR UPSET 

Republican officials, who think Senate candidate George Bush and gubernatorial hopeful Paul Eggers can upset the Demo­crats, cite Johnson's activities as a sure sign that the Democrats are desperately struggling to hold their party together until after the November election. 
All of which means 1970 is another typical knock-down, drag-out year of party politics in Texas. This time, most observers feel the Republican candidates are closer to breaking the Demo­cratic grip on the state than at any time this century. 
REMATCH OF 1968 

The key races are for the Senate, where Bentsen ousted longtime liberal leader Sen. Ralph Yarborough in the party primary, and now faces Bush, and for governor, where the con­test is a rematch of 1968. Smith picked up about 54 per cent of the vote in solidly defeating Eg­gers two years ago. 
But Republicans note that Eg­gers, in his first political race, got more votes than any pre­vious GOP candidate for gover­nor in Texas history. 
JOHNSON'S APPEARANCE1 

Johnson appeared at an appre­ciation dinner for Yarborough in Houston, then at an outdoor barbecue honoring Texas House Speaker Gus Mutscher. He was main speaker at an appreciation dinner honoring Lt. Gov. Ben 
Six GM plants struck early 
(Continued from page 1) 
Workers at six GM plants ­toward a strike when they took three in the United States and 

a break of more than two hours three in Canada -went on strike 
for dinner, beginning about 6:15 early because of dissatisfaction p.m. (EST). The negotiators with the state of the negotia­were to return to the bargaining tions. 
table at about 8:30P.M. -·just The struck installations were 
3Vz hours before the strike dead­the assembly plants at Framing-line. 
ham, Mass., Tarrytown, N.Y.,
UAW locals had thousands of Janesville, Wis., Ste. Therese, Que., and Aoshawa, Ont., and the Guide Lamp Division at Anderson, Ind. There also were Barnes, and filled a similar role at a $100 a plate dinner for Bentsen last week. 

NIXON-AGNEW SUPPORT 

National GOP leaders -in­cluding President Nixon and Vice President Agnew -have lined up solidly behind Bush in one of I 0 '"key" Senate races Republicans feel they can win. 
OLD-LINE DEMOCRAT 
Bentsen, 49, is a former Rio 

Cambodians withdraw 
PHNOM PENH (UP!)-A 4,000 
man Cambodian task force with­
drew from the village of Tang 
Kauk under Communist fire yes­
terday in a battle that marked its 
first major contact with the ene­
my. The Cambodian commander 
said it was a strategic maneuver, 
not a retreat. 
The commander of the Cam­bodian force, Brig. Gen. Neak Sam, reported 13 of his men killed and 87 wounded in a nine hour mortar and artillery duel with North Vietnamese and Viet Cong units holding Tang Kauk. 
Tang Kauk, 52 miles north of Phnom Penh, is a major objec­tive in what was described as "the mission of the long march" by the 4,000 man Cambodian force trying to clear Communist forces from Highway 6. It cuts through th~ center of Cambodia. 
In South Vietnam, Commu­

nist gunners rained more than 
320 heavy mortar shells on fire­
base O'Reilly 390 miles north­
east of Saigon near the Laotian 
border with some of the shell 
filled with nausea gas. 
Military sources said as many as 2,000 North Vietnamese troops are in the O'Reilly area, and that they were increasing pressures on the base. The com­mander of the 1st Infantry Divi­sion of the South Vietnamese army, Col. Nguyen Van Diem, said O'Reilly would be aban­doned late this month or early in October when the fall monsoons begin. 
The Cambodian task force pulling back from Tank Kauk launched the biggest offensive of Grande Valley Congressman who retired after three terms in the early 1950's to become a suc­cessful insurance executive in Houston. He is closely aligned with the old line Democratic "establishment" in Texas, and drew considerable strength in the primary from the support of former Gov. John Connally. 
It appears, however, that no matter which way the Senate race in Texas goes, President Nixon cannot help but be a winner since both men are staunch conservatives 
the Cambodian war a week ago, 
starting from the village of 
Skoun on Highway 6 and driving 
north toward the province capi­
tal of Kompong Thorn. It moved only 17 miles before nearing Tang Kauk. Advance elements of the force 
battled into Tang Kauk Sunday 
but ran into extremely fierce 
Communist resistance and with­
drew. UP! photographer Kyoichi Sawada said Highway 6 was clogged with Cambodian soldiers heading south. He said the men were orderly but dispirited and dazed. 
Co-ed braves 
U. ofW. 
MADISON, Wis. (l..iPI) Robin Menes, 18, who just "wants to get four years of education," chose one of the nation's most troubled schools to get it-the University of Wis­consin. 
The Washington, D.C. coed was one of several hundred new freshmen who arrived on the campus for the start of classes next week. 
Miss Menes, who describes herself as "left of center," said she "figured there would be trouble anywhere I went to school. I just want to get four years of education." 
This year's crop of new stu­dents, according to observer Joe McBride of the Wisconsin State Journal, was more subdued than in the past. Wisconsin has built a notoriety for disruption, vio­lence and last month, death in a bombing. 
"The boarded up •vindows aren't exactly scenic," said Frances George, 18, Wisconsin Rapids, as she moved into her Sellery Hall dormitory. "I won­der what happened to make good students, people who care about the university, got so vio­lent that somebody gets killed." 
"I really didn't want to come here anymore when I heard about the bombing,'' said Dennis Dietelhoff, 18, Cazenovia, Wis., as he moved into Ogg Hall. 
"But then I figured I'd just stay away from what happens and prove to everyhody that I can come down here and stay myself,'' he said, 


Tuesday, September 15, 1970 THE OBSERrJDt Page 7 
Humphrey headlines foday's primaries 
By (UPI)-Former Vice Presi­dent Hubert H. Hunphrey, bidd­ing for another term as senator from Minnesota, and Democratic Sen. Joseph D. Tydings, battling for renomination in Maryland, were expected to overcome stiff opposition today in two of the key primary elections being held by six states. 
Humphrey, who gave up his seat in the Senate in 1964 to bewme vice president, is runn­ing for the seat held by Demo­crat Eugene J. McCarthy, who is retiring. His opponent is Earl 
'nl•unCtf•on· 
holding primaries today are right to challenge Republican
•$ obta••ned Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Gov. Francis W. Sargent, who is 
(Continued frvm page 1J t
'that time the industry has no 
improved its offer by·even "one cent."
A White House source said 
Nixon would have his earliest comment on the breakdown in the railroad negotiations no sooner than today. 
Dennis said the talks would not be renewed until manage­ment showed "a new attitude." 
J.P. Hiltz, Jr., chairman of the NRLC had no immediate com­ment, but the industry has claimed the union's demand for a 40 per cent wage increase over three years would bankrupt the railroad&. 
Nixon has authority under the Railway Labor Act to prohibit a strike for 60 days while a media­tion board attempts to resolve the differences. 
But Assistant Labor Secretary 
W.J. Usery, Jr., said that system has failed in the past, and "is not the way, really, for collective bargaining." 
Usery said the moratorium's obvious limits were illustrated by the fact that the railroads could be struck three more times in the next few weeks by other unions on other issues. 
Wage bargaining is continuing on contracts for signalmen and sh opcraft workers, and the 11-year-old issue of whether fire­men are needed on freight and yard diesels has flared up again. 
The railroads had no com­ment, pending a decision on their petition for an injunction, on whether carriers not among those struck would retaliate with a lockout against the unions -a technique briefly employed in previous railroad labor disoutes. 
Earlier, Usery said: "We'll do everything we can to avoid a crisis on the nation's railroads, 
and  we'II  do  all  we  can  to  
minimize it."  
"If  we  can't  keep  all  the  
railroads operating, we  want  to  

minimize the impact and keep essential service operating," Usery said. 
Women leaders ask for peace 
ST' LOUIS' Mo. (UPI)-More than 500 leaders of virtually all the Roman Catholic women's communitites in the nation have adopted a resolution to implore the United States government to bring about rapid end to the war in Southeast Asia, it was report­ed yesterday. 
The nuns voted to send a telegram to President Nixon to urge "action from every member of the government of the United States to take steps to end the war in Southeast Asia and to channel the national military ap­
unopposed for renomination in Craig Jr. A 31 year old black Massachusetts. Josiah Spaulding, peace candidate who has the a liberal, and John J. McCarthy, support of many voters who a conservative, are the two can-supported McCarthy's 1968 pres-didates for the state's GOP sena­idential campaign. torial nomination, with Spauld-Tydings, trying for a second ing a solid favorite. term in the Senate, has gotten But the main race in Massa­unexpected opposition from chusetts is the four man contest conservative George P. Mahoney, for the Democratic gubernatorial a 68 year old construction firm nomination-Roston Mavor Kevin owner who has fialed~eight times H. White, State Senate President to win a senate or gubernatorial Maurice A. Donahue, former Lt. race in Maryland. Mahoney has Gov. Francis X. Gelloti and Ken­benefitted from a strong cam-neth P. O'Donnell, one of Presi­paign against Tydings by the dent John F. Kennedy's top nation's gun lobby, which was advisers. 
White was expected to win by a narrow margin and earn the 
Washington while Oklahoma has unopposed in the GOP pri­a runoff for the Democratic gub­
mary.

ernatorial nomination there. In Washington, Democratic Assistant Democratic Senate Sen. Henry M. Jackson is expect-
Leader Edward M. Kennedy is ed to win renomination, but he the vote.
;;.._:...::.,~_:-~~--:...,_ _::.__~~~:::,:;;:....:.;~~~:;,;;~...;;.;;.;;.,;;.:.;..........;.;;.;._;;.;....__........... 
Ifyou can afford a sports car, 
how come youcan't afford a decent pencil sharpener? 
A sharp car may arouse a chick's interest. But a sharp pencil leaves her with a< deep impression. 
And you can keep sharpening your pencils ten times longer than the other guys with a Panasonic electric pencil sharpener. Because it has tungsten-steel blades. With a sealed electric motor that knows how to grind away without grinding your pencil to a frazzle. Not only that, but an electric light flashes on when it's time to pull it out. 
You don't have to worry about pinning down our pencil sharpener, either. Four super-suction pads on the base hold it down so vou don't have to. 
· But it's not just a tactile experience, using our Point-0-Matic. It's also aesthetic. In a choice of Collegiate 'Valnut or Ivy Green finishes. 
Just tool over to the bookstore in your sports car. Or your heap. And walk out with a Panasonic electric pencil sharpener.* Secure in the knowledge that while somebody may have a groovier car, nobody will have a more desirable pencil. 
PANASONIC8, 
just slightly ahead of our time. 
*Be sure to pay for it. Also, notice the Panasonic lamps. They're sight for sore eyes. 
has gotten considerable op­position from Carl Maxey, a 46 year old black lawyer from Spo­kane who has had strong support from liberals because of his tough antiwar position. In Okla­homa, Tulsa attorney David Hall, who failed to win a major­ity fo the vote in a previous primary Aug. 25, is trying to defeat State Sen. Bryce Baggett for the right to challenge Repub­lican Gov. Dewey Bartlett in the Nov. 3 general election. The winner of the Humphrey -Craig race in Minnesota prob­ably will face Rep. Clark Mac­
Gregor, who has only one minor opponent for the GOP senatorial nomination. Although Humph­rey was rated the clear favorite over Craig, a University of MInnesota faculty member, Humphrey partisans feared Craig might get a substantial share of 
Tydings, who also has been under fire by liberals since he helped steer the controversial District of Columbia crime bill through the Senate, was expect­ed to win. But in 1966 Mahoney split Maryland's Democratic vote so badly that Vice President Spito T. Agnew was able to get elected governor, his first non local office. 
Maryland's current governor, Marvin Mandel, was lamost certain to win renomination and his GOP opponent in November will probably be C. Stanley Blair, a former aide to Agnew. 
In Rhode Island, Democratic Gov. Frank Licht is unopposed for renomirt~tion_and ~ ttorney 
General Herbert F. DeSimone is favored to win the GOP guber­natorial nomination. Democratic Sen. Frank 0. Pastore had only token opposition in his bid for renomination. 
l 

propriations into peaceful direct-l----------------------------------------------------­
ions." 
---------------------------------------------. 
Page 8 7HI!. OBSERUER. __________________________T_u_e_sd_a~y~,_September 15, 1970 
Coaching pals turn foes Saturday 
Evanston, Ill. -Two men who will trod the familiar Dyche Sta­season against each other-and western name from the Par­days is offensive backfield collaborated to create one of the dium gridiron together again this this time they'll by trying to seghian-Agase era--Mike Stock­coach, Jack Ellis, who was bright chapters in Northwestern Saturday (Sept. 19). outwit each other instead of a has since been added to the Irish quarterback on Parseghian 's first 
football history a decade ago­That's when Northwestern common foe. staff as receiver coach. Mike was Northwestern team in 1956. Alex Agase and Ara Parseghian-and Notre Dame open the 1970 There will be a capacity All Big Ten fullback in 1960 and Another Northwestern coach, crowd of approximately 50,000 co-captain of the 1959 and 1960 Jay Robertson, receivers, was to watch this fifth meeting be­teams. center and captain of the 1962JIM MURRAY 
tween the two colorful coaching Thr only carryover on the Northwestern team that had a 
pals, with Agase still seeking that Wildcat staff from those exciting 7-2 record. 
first victory over the man he succeeded at the Wildcat helm in 1964. In previous meetings be­
Who's 

tween the two, Notre Dame won 38-7, 35-7, 27-7, and 35-10, the series having resumed in J965. 
In almost every instance, it has taken an explosive fourth 
quarter for the Irish to pull a way. A good example was last year, when Notre Dame led by a 
TUSCAL()QSA-On a lot of campuses today, the football player scant 14-10 early in the fourth occupies a position of adulation somewhere between the janitor and quarter at South Bend. the guy who rings the wake-up bell. The Big-Man -On -Campus During their eight years as a A'D' 1970 is a four letter man all right -a flag-burning, North western com bi na lion class-wrecking, dean-baiting, t -room wall spouting non-athlete. (195 6-1963 ), Alex formulated the He doesn't want to die for dear old Rutgers, he wants to kill it. He defenses while Aru master­thinks the Viet Cong should go to the Rose Bowl. His idea of a pep minded the offenses. That com­rally is one in which they stone the .ROTC. bination reached its zenith with 
Here, in this sleepy little ante-bellum town by the banks of the six straight victories and mid­Black Warrior River, the campus kook is not yet the all-American season ranking of No. I in the boy to the rest of the student body. Heroes down here are still guys nation in 1959 and 1962. A good who wear varsity letters instead of dirty words. Bravery is still of Parseghian 's success 
Right 

measure throwing blocks at linebackers, not rot.:ks at policemen. at North western was predicated This is a state which, when it decided it didn't like the 
on the defenses built by Agase. 
Establishment, it got on horseback 100 years ago and The A memorable example was the 21-0 upset of previously un­
Establishment had to go on a war footing to get it bat.:k in line. beaten and top-ranked Ohio
THAT was a protest movement which makes today's look like State, with its great fullback,
Halloween pranks. The Confedemcy scorned rhetoric. It just Bob White, in 1958. 
opened fire. It was the first country to say "Yankee go home". 
While Agase remained at

It knows, then, at first and second hand, the wages of violence. It labors under a mastodonic superiority complex. The sins of the Northwestern to take over the reins when Purseghian left for
fathers are visited on the sons. It is the Germany of the New World. Notre Dume in 1964, several
It is rebuffed by its contemporaries as an anachronism, reviled for poluting the American Dream. It cannot elect a President or even get 
Wildcat staff members made the on the Supreme Court. It is still. a century after Sumter, a nation move to Notre Dame with Ara. apart. It is in the Union, but not of it. The wounds of Vicksburg, 
One, Doc Urich, now is head Shiloh, Atlanta are still open and draining. coach at Northern Illinois Uni­And it has always found a curious relief in football. It is, it seems, 
versity. The other two, Paul an outlet for frustrations, a vehicle for courage, a balm in defeat. 
Shoults and Tom Pagna. will be And Paul (Bear) Bryant, the last of the great Confederate leaders, 
with Parseghian when he returns capitalize!> on all that. 
to Evanston this weekend­It is the view of many -with some justification -that foot ball with Shoults coaching the secondary a capital F is just the same old con game of the very old and the very 
and Pagna the offensive back­
safe sending the young out at their peril to bring honor and glory to field. Another prominent North-
those old. When you hear "Roll, Tide, Roll" sung out in a drunken baritone at the midnight hours on the streets of Birmingham, chances are the cheerleader will be an old futs with bifocals, an insurance business, and the sophomoric outlook on life of a guy who 
Secondary
never played a game of football. You can tell, because he isn't limping. At mo~ universities in less benighted regions of the Republic, Evanston, 111.--l f, as the fool­Considering the amount of who was a regular until an ankle ball magazines predict, 1970 is to running this quartet may have to fracture sidelined him just be­
football heroes are at great pains to identify themselves with the 
be the "year of the quarter­do, it's reassuring to have a set fore the season last year, andstudent body. It is their only chance to get asked anywhere besides back", Northwestern can consi­:Jf veteran reserves behind them. Dan White, a senior who was one
the whirlpool bath or the training table. der it a lucky stroke of fate that The backup crew is led by a pair of the surprises of spring prac­
At Alabama, the football team does not mix with the troops. It its 1970 secondary figures to be of swift juniors who originally tice. Also in the picture. is a
has its own officer's quarters as elite as the Potsdamer Gaurds'. It looks like a Caribbean resort hotel. its strongest in many years. Not were quarterbacks, Billy Adams promising sophomore, Joe so lucky is the fact that the and Bob Beutel. The other two Ratterman.
It is a bit of audacity the bedazzles the visitor. At any university schedule calls for them to en­replacements are Brad Somers,
the rest of the student body might be expected to shout at the counter no less than four of the
returning lettermen each night, "All right Bubba, back to your nation's great established passers
cage". Or, "Hey, Bronko, do they throw your food in and then slam and one of the most highly­
the door right away?" Or, "Who's your keeper, Hoss, and do they 
MAJOR LEAGUES
touted sophomores.
only let you out long enough for the GAME?" Or, "Hey, look, They must deal with three of
fellows, he broke his chains!" At some schools, they might circulate the nation's finest in their first
a petition to put bars on the window lest the creatures escape. three games: Notre Dame's Joe AI\~[RICAN LEAGUE
But Paul W. Bryant Hall accepts segregation of athletes from NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Theismann, Sept, 19 at Dyche
students with a perfectly straight face. So does the student body. 
Efst w
Stadium, UCLA's Dennis East w L Pet. GB L Pet. GB
The boys who live there l:lddress everyone as "Sir" and, when their 
51

Dummit, Sept. 26, at Los Pittsburgh 77 68 .531 B .ltimore 95 .651
hair gets too long, Paul W. Bryant himself leads them in and shows 
York 81

Angeles, and SM U's Chuck H ix­New York 77 69 .527 y, 1\ ~w 65 .555 14 
them pictures of past national champions. "The teams that did the r)etroit 71 20
75 .514

!.On, Oct. 3, at Dyche. Chicago 76 69 .524 1 
winning got their hair cut," he tells them. The point is made. The . !aston 75
St. Louis 70 77 .476 8 71 .514 20
The following week, Oct. 10,
next sound you hear is the clip-clip of barber's shears. Philadelphia 66 81 .449 12 Slevela,,d 71 76 .483 24'1;,
the secondary-and Chicago area
Is this Alabama, or is this Bear Bryant? Is this healthy, a return to Montreal 64 81 .441 13 Jashin;Jton 68 77 .469 26Y:. 
foot ball fans--will get the long­
old-fashioned verities, or is this destrudive of the human spirit? 
awaited first look at Mike Wells, West
Who is right -Telegraph Ave., Berkeley? Or Paul W. Bryant Hall, West sophomore quarterback who is Cincinnati 93 56 .624 ... Minnesota 87 58 .600
Tuscaloosa? 
Oakla.nd
supposed to lead Illinois back to Los Angeles 78 67 .538 13 80 67 .544 8It is well to remember that Paul W. Bryant is an authentic 
14Y:. California 77 68 .531 10
gridiron respectability. Then on San Fran_ 77 69 .527
American legend like George Patton and his pearl handled revolvers. 
Kansas City 58 88
Atlanta 72 76 .486 21% .397 29Y:.
Oct. 31, it's on to Columbus to
The illustrative anecdotes are blasphemous: Does Bear Bryant go Milwaukee 55
Houston 70 76 .479 24Y:. 90 .379 32
face Ohio St:.~te and its fabled
fishing? No, not for long. He just catches one and multiplies it. 89 34 Chicago !>3 93 34Y,
San Diego 58 .395 .363
Rex Kern.
Is it wholesome for football players to be segregated? Is it even constitutional? Primed for this monumental 1\'ew Yor~ at Montreal, night Oakl<•nd at Milwaukee, night
defensive task is a veteran San Diego at Los Angeles, night Calif,Jrnia at Minnesota, night
Well, says Alabama we went to the Sugar Bowl. the Cotton Bowl, 
secondary led by two c••ndidates Atlanta at San Francisco, nightthe Gator Bowl, the Orange BowL the Liberty Bowl, and any other 
for individual honors who Only games scher;luled 
kind of bowl that didn't have soup in it. Only games scheduled 
started every g:.~me last Yl'ar-­
Do you get to the Liberty Bowl by living in the Concentration 
senior cornnback R1ck Telander
Camp Bowl? Or a fish bowl? Is a fool hall squad a para-military 
and junior free safely Erir
group, or should it just be fun for the kids? Should you have to get a 
Hutchinson The other half of
furlough when, after all, you're just a private citizen in search of an 
the proven foursome, corner­
<::ducation? Does a varsity letter have to be just another Iron Cross'l 
bark Mike Coughlin and strong
But Alabama acct>pts. The student body, 13,000 strong. ~1ccepts. 
safety Jack Dustin, split a start­
Is it ennobling? Or degrading? Is it American'' Or just Southern? 
ing job last year as sophomores.
Whutever, Berkeley, it ain't. 



-~---~---~---~-~----­

