
\/ &, ?-3 Serving the Notre Dame and Saii1t Mary's College ('ommunity Monday, October 12. 1970 
1 
McGovern speaks of revolution 
new otit "cutting everybody opened with an abbreviated ·far away" from the ideals that initiatives "at long last were one
By Cliff Wintrode 
up." He said Agnew, the "hat-airport press conference in the gave up birth that only a step on a rational course of 
Senator George McGovern chet man", was similar to the afternoon after which he was response equal to our fight for action in Southeast Asia, said here Friday that he was very earlier Nixon and that the quickly •vhisked to O'Laughlin independence could bridge the limited and belated as it may "seriously thinking about run-President's "earlier instinct is Auditorium and addressed a "yawning gap between what we be." ning for the Presidency in 1972 still there." friendLv near caoacitv audience. stand for and the policies we He chided the President that a 
and promptly acted every inch Nor was the necessary chore An "Evening_of Conversation" pursue." standstill cease fire advocated by an announced candidate. _ of collecting political lOU's left with him that night at the He criticized the "more stri­critics of the war one and a half McGovern, smoothly evading undone, as McGovern praised Faculty Club on campus con-dent, less helpful" voices on the years ago would have drawn 
giving direct answers to ques-incumbent 3rd District Congress-eluded his appearances. 
right and left that are fishing in them the label of "apostles of 
tions, pleaded national unity and man John Brademas as the voice "What we need most of all is a surrender" from the administra­
our "troubled waters" for pur­scored throughout his talks the of education in the House and Second American Revolution, 
poses of "manipulation and tion. 
polarization cau~ed by Admini-called Senator Hartke's reelec-not a revolution dedicated to exploitation toward their own He said at the airport press 
stration rhetoric and action. tion to the Senate "important to violence, but a reaffirmation of conference that if Nixon's new
ends." He portrayed Nixon as a the cause of peace and dignity in the principles that launched this· proposals were the initiatives for 
How can the "undisciplined

"Jekyll and Hyde" man who the country." country two-hundred years peace he promised in his 1968
radical revolutionists" advocate 
preaches conciliation yet prac-McGovern made three appear-ago," McGovern said at SMC. campaign, "that if this is that
no violence in Southeast Asia
tices divisiveness and sends Ag-ances in South Bend Friday. He He said we have "wandered so p(an, what a tragedy that 12,000
and then turn around and more GI's had to die."
advocate violence here on our The recent failure of thecitizens asked McGovern, but direct election of presidents billthere will be no "salvation"
Editorial: 'disapf?ointing' 
in the Senate was due to the Observer Publisher Guy De Scholastic and the Dome ND's vanrages to both publications. from our problems until our "naked open use" of the filibus­Sapio expressed "disappoint-yearbooK. ' "Apparently I didn't com­leadership relies on conciliation 
ter designed to P.s~ssure Senators ment" today over an editorial According to De Sapio, when municate too well with Steve," rather than "forces or pressure." 
to consider other legislation he which appeared Friday, in The Brion entered the office, De DeSapio said. "He must have gone "I do not understand a said. 
Scholastic, the official university Sap~o to~d him that he was off ~hinking that I had been President that condemns bomb­After considerable proddingliterary magazine. typmg a hst of the costs involved workmg on some set proposal throwers, yet condemns those from a persistent questioner,The editorial commented on in printing The Scholastic on for a long period of time and who protest against violence in McGovern said he favored legis­an alleged "plan" of publisher pewsprint. He told Brion that he that I hadn't talked to him Southeast Asia," added McGov­
. t h mtended to show the statement about it at all" ern. lation to reduce the penalty for 
De Sap10 o merge t e two R Th · · draft resistance.
bl" f It al . r d th t to ev. omas Blantz, VIce-De Sapio said that he "won-He said Nixon's 1v~w peaceJ?.,Uhe IcO·abisoe~~r so Imp Ie d ~ , President for Student Affairs dered" though how that "could 
1. · was engage m d A · y· p · ' 
IT I " . . " an to ssistant Ice-resident be possible" because he and Ica t.t. mabn.eukvebr~t~g , a?d for Student Affairs, Rev. James Brion talked extensively that 
compe 1 1ve ac -1 mg m-Sh'ltz ·
1

tended to "rape" The Scholastic. · . . F~day about the advantages and 
£01 SMC Trustees meet 
"I . . d The publishmg of The Schol-diSadvantages of merging the 
was very surpnse to see astic comes under Blantz's office bl" · · f
the accusations of political back-. . two pu Icatwns. Bnon Ie t the 
by Allison Kittrel 
. . and De Sap10 hoped to fmd out e r d. t D S · 
biting and maneuvering being f . . . m e mg, accor mg o e apw, 
, . t d D S· . "I rom him whether the llmvefS!ty upon a mutual agreement that Ann Marie Tracy, Sl\IC 
made, commen e e , apw. h d t · t t 1 · · h 
d. . · t d t b a s nc con ractua ties Wit the editors of the two publica-Student Body President, on 
was 1sappom e oo ecause A M · p Th S h l · ' · 
. f , ve ana ress, e c o astlc s tions would have to get together Friday, October 9, became theth t t11 1
eyare oa y ase. print d h th th " ,
" . er, an w e er ere soon and talk seriously about first student to attend a meeting The editors and staff of would be any possibility of the th ·b·1· · of the Associate Board of
The Observer are really great . . . e poss1 1 Itles. 
I h tf . I t f llmversity agreemg to a merger "That was one of the reasons Trustees. That morning she had f.eop ~ ~ to are/t~ mg m a 0 t 0 of the two publications. If the that I was so surprised at the attended a meeting of the dlm~tJUS 0 ghe e paperf otuh · 1 merger proved to be economical-appearance of the editorial and Student Policy Committee. 
on sec w ere any o em f "bl ·
1 The Student Policy Commit­
would have the time or the Y . easi e ~nd possible, De the tone that it took," De SapioSap10 told Bnon, the two staffs said. tee is one of four standing
desire to engage in such tactics," 
could discuss the possibilities of According to De Sapio, Brion committees of the Board of
he said. 
Trustees. As Student Body Presi­merging; advantages and disad-(continued on page 3) 
De Sapio said that he assumed that the editorial was aimed at Ann Marie Tracey him and that it was the result of dent, Miss Tracey is auto­
an "honest and frank" discus­rna tically a voting member. The


Petition to be issued
~ion that he had had with Steve other voting student member is Brion, The Scholastic's editor on basically the only legislative (with their constituents) than Nan Kavanagh, who was ap­
By Dave McCarthy
Friday October 2. body on campus." Senators." pointed by the Executive Cabi­It was at that time that De When asked why he considers "The Hall President has real net of the Student Assembly and 
A petition obligating the Stu­Sapio and Brion "renewed" a the new Constitution better than good relations with most of the approved by the Student Assem­
dent Senate to publish and conversation that they had be­distribute copies .of a new its predecessor Connor said, "It individual students," he said. bly. Jean Gorman also attended gun last May about the possibili­allows the individual student Connor admitted he was the meeting. There are two
constitution and to hold a "very optimistic" about the new voting student members on eachty of merging The Observer and much more of a voice in student
referendum to determine adop­
The Scholastic. According to De Constitution's chance for adop­of the other committees except
government than the previous
tion is expected to be presented
Sapio, he had just got off the one." He explained that in the tion. He said it would be Finance. The other two commit­
shortly after the body is as­considered an ammendment to tees are De~elopll;!ent and Edu­
phone from talking to The sembled. past Hall President elections had Observer's printer about the cost substantially larger voter turn­the old Constitution. Adoption cational Policy. 
If adopted, the petition will in

of printing The Scholastic on outs than Sel)ate elections. He requires 60% of the student The Student Policy Commit­
effect, abolish the student senate
newsprint when Brion entered indicated a feeling that Hall body to vote and a majority of tee was told that the Student
according to Student Govern­them to be in favor. Affairs Council had decided tothe office. Presidents have "better contact
ment Research and Development
De Sapio stated that he felt at form a tripartite committee,
Commissioner Tim Connor:
the time that there would be a made up of administration, fa­
Scholastic facts in error
The petition will require at

tremendous cost saving if The culty, and student representa­
least 500 student signatures.
Scholastic was printed on news­The Observer released a list of two weeks of the preceeding tives, to correct the incongruities
The new Constitution was

print instead of on the paper corrections on factual points year. between the faculty and student
drawn up in about three weeks, 
upon which it is currently being which were mis-stated in a Third, The Scholastic, on page procedural manuals. The Com­
and was "more or less the work
printed. He had asked his printer features article appearing in the 17, reported that The Observer mittee also discussed the drug
of the whole Cabinet," ex­
and found that it would be Scholastic, the University's sold "the paper with a foot ball and the off-campus policies as
plained Connor, who guided its
possible to print The Scholastic literary magazine, Friday. The program" in the fall of 1968. passed by the Student Affairs
drafting. He noted that SBP
for less than 10,000 dollars a story concerned the history of The paper was not sold but Council, and recommended both
Dave Krashna served in a 
year compared to ·the 40,000 The Observer. distributed freely. to the Board of Trustees. A
"guiding role" and brought
odd dollars that it costs now. First, The Scholastic, on page Fourth, The Scholastic, on Student Government report also
"control to the whole thing."The Scholastic'sentire budget According to Connor the 16,incorrectly identified The Ob­page 17, incorrectly identified presented dealt with SMC faci­
is over $50,000 a year. De Sapio the development of The lities-maintenance, shuttle bus,
major feature of the new Consti­server's "birthdate" as Novem­
said that if the two publications Observer during the fall of 1968 study areas, dining room space,
tution is a provision establishing ber 3, 1965. Actually the date 
could merge their business. was November 3, 1966. identifying a growth from twice library facilities, etc. The report
a President's Council (in place of indicated that not enough atten­offices and if The Scholastic a week, to three times a week
the senate) comprised of a Second, The Scholastic, on 
editors could agree to print on page 17, stated that "The and finally to an experimently tion has been paid to expanding
Chairman, the Hall Presidents,
newsprint, the cost savings could Observer was published twice daily publication basis. During facilities to correspond to in­
an off campus representative, creased enrollment. lean Gor­
be used to buy printing equip­weekly" at the opening of the the period in question, The SLC, and the Cabinet members. 
the student members of the 
ment that The Observer needs 1968 school year under editor Observer had been published man was responsible for the 
report, which the Committeeand to pay· salaries to Observer Its function, Connor ex­Bill Luking. Actually The regularly on a paily basis. 
passed on with high recommen­
personnel comparable to salaries plained, is to "make recommen­Observer printed daily from the Fifth, The Scholastic. on page 18, stated that The Observer was
which the university currently dations to the SLC for action." first day of September 1968 and ( continued on page 6) pays to editors and others on The "The SLC," he continued, "is had printed daily for the last (continued on page 6J 

-------------------------------------, 
Page 2 TH£ OBSERVER. 
~~----------------------~--~~-----------­
New record shop. to.. open on ND ~,~,~.R~~ooblc 
'th bookstore albuPIS priceli at lhe Crypt will have an orders will be tilled w1tlun a bt . . 1 th' .
I 1-11 1 albums priced sixty-five cents -$4.25. Mateja admitted that his ongmal stock of .300 albun~sand wee,k. -. "' " !he various authorities. 
A campus record slop WI . . . . -. . . o ammg approva IS a rom 
less than their bookstore equi­valent will be opened late this 
week or earIy next week bY 
· 
former Senator JoI111 MatCja

Th sho know as ;,The 
original intent was to undercut the only other campus source. "The [Jrices are too high 'tnd can 
· · ' 

be cut b·tck If I c·m afford to
' · ' 

sell at $3.10 or $3.(}0 it's t:e open Monday through f•_nd<Jy from~ p.m. toR p.m. MateJa has tentative plans to be open from l p.ul. to 4 p.m. on Saturday afterno~ms. . . 
_1 he Idea tor fhe Crypt , ongmated last ,year but . w~: lrus!J••ted because MateJa 
, t'· d d 1. 1 1

couldn t · m a ea er an( llere
t 1 -u ­
wer~ dou )\s a )OUt gettmg m-
When asked about the Book­store management's reaction to "The Crypt," Mat.ej·a r·-·pli·e·', "They don't kn<JW a!JOllf <t ~ yet."u 
-' 

Bookstore Manager Brother 
e p, -obv· 011s· that they can be cut," Mateja wlll take ordt'fS for verstty approval. Over the sum-
Crypt" will be located in 1 . . M . f d d a! . Con<Jn Moran, C.S.C. was un­
., . . I said Mateja. eight track tapes as well as tor mer aleja oun a c· er m available for comment Friday
Mateja's dormttory re_stc e~ce, records not in stock. He said the Chicago, whom he refused to 
room 416 Lyons. Mateja fatled afternoon.
University rules require such to win re-election last spring an undertaking to be approved 



c d • d t d 
with a cco·perative bookstore by the vice-presidents for Aca­
a n I a es ann0 u n c e 
<~mong his campaign planks. demic Affairs and Student Af-Bookstore prices are "slightly 
fairs. Mateja said he has this lloly Cross ( l ): None
exhorbitant for a college and it's Student Government Eledion
permission along with the appro­may run, said Stone, hut must lloward(l): Peter llayes,about time this service was Committee Chairman Russ do so as a writ;·-in. ­
val of Student Body Pn:sidenl Robert Ryan, Terry ·rulisiak Dave Krashna. A Slate Retailers Keenan(2): Jack Doyle
established," said Mateja. He Stone announced yesterday the Stone also mentioned _that the added that the service is pro­
License <~P plicalion has also been names of those students whose number of candidates this year Lyons(2J: Richard MeLoy,vided at other colleges and filed by the former senator. names woullt appear un the was greater than the number for 
Mike McManus, Incumbent John
named the Universities of Illinois ballots in Wednesday's Student the last few years. 
Mateja, Mark Vale

and Michigan as examples. Mateja has taken adequate Senate elections. Those on the Following is the entire list of security precautions to protect ballot in their respective halls arc candidates, mentioned by halls,Album prices will be $3. I 0 his stock which basically features those who have returned peti­Morrissey (2): John R.
with the number of senators 
for a record selling at S3.;5 in the top 100 with a "lot of folk" tions with the required 25 dected from each hull in paren­1\merena, George R. Anderson, the bookstore and $J.GO for and little inz or soul. signatures. Any other c<Jndidatc theses: Raymond Dalton Panghorne (2): Steve Nee,
i\lunmi (2): Dave Burch, Paul UngerRobert T. Esser, Joe Filzmeyer,
Chilean gives political talk 
Ed Grimmer a arc. Badin (I): Dan Thornton, 
St. Edward's (I): NoneBy John Flannigan The reasons, according to T.C'. Treanor St. Joseph's( l ): None 
tions in his country. 

Since 1964, acconling to 
Why, after six years of t-te­Ver;1, wt•re that in an attempt to B-P(2): Bill P<Jrry Sorin (I): Thomas F. Bern­
Vera, the Chilean government Cavanaugh (2): Phil Cern<Jnac, 
mendous strides towards increased educational opportuni-please a majority of the popula­hold!, Joe Brehler, Jeff Noonan, economic improvement, would a tion through its progressive John McFlligott, Mark L. Paul Ruschnwnn, Chuck Ryan,
ties, fostered agrari<~n and 
nation vote out that administra­policies, the government frustra­Wening
housing reforms that were John Westever 
tion in favor of a left-wing­ted much of its impact on the Dillon (2): Robert A. Bradike,
unprecedented in their scope, Stanford (2): Incumbent Eric 
Communist government? Prof. people. While attempting to curb Frank Devine, Tom Heffernan
and negotiated an agreeable Andrus, B.J .Bingle, Robert K. Hernan Vera-Godoy, from the inflation, the administration Farley(2): Rick Anderson,
nationalization of 5 I% of the Sauer 
National l 1niversity in Chile, defe.ated its purpose by simul­Chick Barnm•:e, Don Ferris, Walsh (I): Gerald Beshelm<Jntotal American investment in
attempted to answer this ques­taneously increasing salaries, Juun Manigualt Zahm(2): Bob Bothe, PhilChile.
tion in a lecture Sunday night instituting reform programs, etc. Fisher( 1): Rich Wall, Carmen 
Carey, Bob Geyette llim
Vera's main point was why,
entitled "Political Systems in Because of its long history of Maciarielle 
Thunderafter a long series of economic

Chile." democratic government, Vera Flanner A (2): Incumbent 
and social reforms, the
As a member of the Executive did not express concern over the hank McAleer, Don<Jl L. Putrick 
population voted out that Off-Campus (5): Vince Deguc,
Bureau of Reform of the election of a left-wing candidate. Flanner B (s): None 
administration, and ~llowed a Tom [)owd, Steve Flavin Ail!
Christian Democratic administra­Tlu: newly-dec!ed president has tion from 1964 till the present, coalition of Communists and expressed his commitment to Crace C (2): Carl 1-:Ilison, McC;r<Jth, Francis T. Healy 
Socialists to give 3(J % of the Randy Lintz, Don Mooney,
Prof. Vera gave his first-hand supporting the Chilean Constitu­Floyd Kezcle, Incumbent Bruce 
vote., and a narrow victory, to Steve Nowak, Incumbent Tom
impressions of the political tion, and if tht' past is any Kuennen, Robert McGill 
the opposing left-wing candi-()'Laughlin Robert R. Ryan.
Grace D (2): Russ Dodge

implications of the recent elec-indication, the new administra­
-----------·--­
tion will not have a drastic effectAll clubs and oraanlzatlons on any of the fundamental 
Police quell riots
governmen L policies.must realster Vera did, however, rccogniLe ATLANTA UP! Police ex-stmple assault, and obstructing the threat of political upheaval if polict: to failing to move.
changed gunfirt: with snipers
on the fourth floor of La Fortune the economic situation in Chile 
early Sunday in a hippie area Capt. Barry Marler said worsens in the near future. 
along fam:d Peachtree Street "strong police action" would be
this week between 3:30 -4:30 p.m. 
Following the recent elections, 
during a riot touched off when a used to prevent a recurrence of 
the Chilean economy took a 
teen-age girl was arrested for the outbreak. 
drastic plunge, and a repetition selling dope. Police said they arrested 
or intensificution of the crisis
Student Organizations 
Three policemen were injured Kathy Marie McCould, 18, of 
might bring about the wrath of 
during the melee and motorists Atlanta about I 0 p.m. Saturday 
the more radicallefl-wingers.


Commissioner 
were pulled from their cars and night and initially charged her As a rule, Vera stressed the beaten by rioters before with violating the Drug Abuse fact that Chile, perhaps more 
specially trained officers could Control Act. She tried to run,
,..............~.~·················~ than any other Latin American 
quell the disturbance. officers said, hut was restrained. country, can serve as a model of 
Fire bombs were hurled into A crowd gathered quickly 
stable democratic government, 
businesses near the I Oth Street from the thousands of youths 
and successful economic 
area long Peachtree, colonized in who normally jam the area on



ATTENTION: 
policies. Chile has certainly recent years by long-haired weekeng nights, while cars con­escaped the violent political hippies and transients. taining curious spectators creep ferment which has plagued other 
Shop Windows were broken along bumper to bumper. 
South American nations. The 
out. Theatre goers leaving a "Stone the pigs," shouted
REPORTERS 
led ure was sponsored by the 
nearby movie house about mid­some in the milling, shoving L<~tin American Cin:le at Notre
" night crouched low and raced to crowd. An attempt was made to 
Dame and St. Mary's, composed 
their cars while rifle and srnall take the girl from officers who of students and faculty members 
arms fire blazed about them. called for reinforcements.


& AL.I. 
from the two institutions. Prof. The patrol car top was bashed
Choking tear gas was finallyVera will offer another lecture used to put down the riot. in <Jnd its windows shattered by tonight on Chilean Culture, at When it ended, 26 persons hippies, and arriving officers had R:OO PM in the Library Auditor-had been arrested on charges to use tear gas to move the

INTERESTED 
r<Jnging fro vated assault, people bark. 
r------------------------~~~ 
IN REPORTING 
FREE ••• for lbve

THERE WILL BE A WRITING WORKSHOP ON MONDAY, OCT.12 FROM 7:30 TO 9:30 IN HUNGRY••• ROOM 20 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER Be an
for adventure! 
-AND ARACE 

IJ;~IH ~ aUJilli'li1~1!!1 
AGAINST DEATH ~The Marine Corps Officer 
FOR AWOMAN'S Selection Team will be PASSION! 
on campus from 13 to 16
All present reporters must attend this workshop or one that 
October 1970, in the
will be held later in the wee!{ 
Dining Halls during noon and cveni meals. 

Mon.day, October 12, 1970 THE OBSERVER. Page 3 





Road repair finances surveyed at ND 
By Don Ruane C.s...c. s;~id the c;rotto road was shullk husL's. II i-; now I X rL·,·: passed. ·1 ll~·re_ is no target date-for ' 
The University has sr.en• approximately $16,845 since t!u: middiL: of May, 1970 to IT­surface ..111d putch portions of the eumpus road and sidewalk system inducting the roi.Jd from the Grotto to U.S. Highway 31. 
Vice-presilknt for Financial Affairs l{everend Jttrome Wilson. 
tn very bad shape and tt was a wide. must that il hl' tTpaircd." This The ro;~d will remain II fcl'l phasL' of lh,c project was begun wide opposite I he CL'ml'lcry in mid-May umh:r bhe din.:clion hLcause a llltlllber of largl' trees of Vincent Fraatz, director of prevented lhc contractor New Buildings and Engineering Reith-Keilcy of South Bend l'lanning. Fr~.~at 1. said thL' road from witkning the surface. A 
was widened by three fcrt to nearby area was cll'<HL'd und give a uniform appearance and surfaced so one shuttle bus allow the operation of two could park w hilc the o\ her 
Ho Chi Minh trail bombed 
SAIGON (lJPI), U.S. B52 bombers guided by, ground radar hit the Ho Chi Minh supply complex in Laos Sunday. There were two brief groHnd engage­ments in South Vietnam, and figh ling in Cambodia drorped to its lowest level in a week. 
A U.S. reconnaissance plane was reported missing since Thursdi.ly on a mJSSton over southern l.aos. 
U.S. military sources said the B52's Hew about 30 sorties from the U Ti.lpao Air Base in Thailand against targets along the trail. Radar bases on the ground controlled the bombing missions. 
It Wi.IS the second time in the past week that the bombers flew no missions in either Vietnam or Cambodia in order to concen­trate their full might on targets in Laos. 
Military sources said the strikes took advantage of dear­ing weather over tht: Ho Chi Minh Trail area which permitted in..:reased reconni.Jissance activity to select targets. A heavy con­centration of supplies is being assembled at the northern end of the trail to move southw;~rd to either South Vietnam or Cam­bodia. the sourL·es said. 
lJ .S. spokesmen said an RF4 "Phi.lntom" reconnaissance jet with two crewmen fi.liled to return from a mission over the souther Laotian panhandle last Thursday and was presumed down. 
It was the 70th U.S. aircraft reported down in Laos since the 1J.S. command begi.ln disclosing such losses last March I 0. lJ .S. spokesmen! reported two brief ground engagements in Vietnam for the period of Saturday i.lnd early Sunday. They said two Americans were killed and 22 wounded in ground fighting, shellings and mine and booby Imp incidents. 
Saigon government spokes­lllt'n n:portcd two shelling i.lt­

taL·ks on province cupitals.Si.ltll'·­day night and early Sunday. In the first. they said sewn rounds of 82 111111 mortar fire hit a popuhtr force militia training center at Bae Lieu in the Mekong Delta I I X miles south southwest of Saigon, causing "light" casualties. 
The second occurred just 15 miles north of Saigon at Phu Cuong, capital of Binh Duong province. Spokesmen said three I 07 mm rockets hit the town, wounding two civilians. 
South Vietnamese spokesmen reported a total of 39 Commu­nist soldiers killed in two opera­tions inside Cambodia. Tw~nty six were reported killed in two dashes in the area of Kompong Trahek, 50 milt:s southeast of Phnom Penh. 
Spokesmen said I 3 more were killed four miles east of the rubber plantation town of Krck, X5 miles northwest of Saigon. 


Observer rebuttal 
(Continued from Page 1) ·1ewspaper." 
had expressed "grave" reservations lions about a possible merger. De Sapio said that he himself had reservations about the move but thought that it was neces­sary to immediately get some sort of cooperation between the two publications to assure the continued existence of both. 
De Sapio told Brion that there were "a lot of 'people" on cam pus who were t.:oncerned about the future of The Obser­I!Cr. lie felt that if The Observer mi.JJc an "intensive" effort to get financial assistance from the university that it L:ould "since most administrators feel that a daily newspaper is an invaluable aid to the university." De Sapio said that once The Observer "got its foot in the door" it would probably begin to grow even more and become more "indispensable as i.l means of communici.ltion." "If the university continued to find itself in a financial squeeze," De Si.lpio claims he told Brion."andthey were fon:ed lo decide between continuing to fund The Observer or The Scholastic they might pick The Obsenw and drop The Schol­astic merely heci.luse there Wi.IS more utility in having a daily 
De Sapio said that he felt that such a situation would "not be in the best interests of the university" and so hoped that Brion woutd agree to work with Thc Observer on a possible merger agreement. That way De Sapio would not have to be concerned about the implica­tions of pushing directly for mont:y for The Obsen,er . 
De Sapio said that Brion agreed with most of his bi.lsic points and had agreed to con­duct serious discussions between the two staffs on the matter. 
"By writing an editorial about the ma Iter, on the basis of one informal conwrsation, The Scholastic has forced The Obser­
ver to' reply," De Sapio com­mented. "This can only create misunderstanding on the part of members of the university community who arc not inti­mately involved in the merger discussions and possible ill will between the staffs." 
De Sap_io noted that he fc.:lt 

TYPING 
Any. material, any length, 
charts and diagrams. $.50/page. Will pick up and deliver. Call Connie Paden 
289-0177 after 4 PM 


H  SOUTH BEND-THH SHERLAND BUILDING. 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET  H  
: RouseofVisioli_ o The House of V1s1on,  Inc.  ~~)  : o  
v  v  

• HOV • HOV • HOV • HOV • HOV • HOV • .HOV • HOV • HOV • HOV • HOV • HOV • 
TJ1e Ob;crver is published daily during the college sen1ester except vacat1ons by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Swbscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11 1 Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Secol)d class postage pa1d Notre Dame Ind. 46556, 
the misunderstandings could probahly be cleared up if all involved remained "open-mind­
ed" about the situation and pt~rsued discussions "in a spirit 
. 
oI good will and with concern for what would be in the best interest of both publications and 
both staffs." 

Fraatz said the total cost of lhL· projecl was $9,345. 
The new surfaces consist of two layns or asp:wll surfacing. The first layn is a two incit asphalt hinder and il is topped by a om· inch layer of asphult connete. 
Rev. Wilson said the Univer sity tries to do some major maintainencc each summer~ He added th<tl pli.lns are dcvt:loping lo complde resurfacing the campus road, a project started this summer .. 
The road has been resurfaced 
from the South Gate Security 
Post to the west side of the 
South Dining Hall. a distance of 
approxirni.ltdy 700 ft'et. A gravel 
road shoulder was also laid by 
the contractor. 
Resurfacing has ;dso beL~ 
completed for this year behind 
O'Shaughnessy Hall and from 
tht· power plant to the area 
formerly nosscd by the railroad 
tracks. These pro_ie.cts and the 
South Dining Hall area are unJer 
the supervision of Director of 
Maintainence Edwin Lyon. 
rt'sur1acmg the L'<llllpus road from the South (;aiL' to. the Firehouse. "WL·'ll have to do as much as WL' can each summer" said Lyon. 
The resurfacing is applied to the most deteriorated areas first according to Rev. Wilson. Nl'Xt summt·r Lyon will supervise the n:surfacing of the curve to the nort hwcst of the Grotto and the stretch from the Power Plant to the intersection of the campw; road and Juniper Road. 
Lyon said his share of the resurfacing would cost approx­inwtcly $7,500. 
There were also plans to resurface the parking lot behind the Bookstore but they were hindered by two problems The first accordiilg to Rev. Wils~n is that there arc only two con­traclors in the area who compete for state, county i.lnd local contracts. As a result Reith-Reiley couln not begin until a few days before students reported for the fall semester 

Record enrollment for SMC 
Si.Jint Mary's College expe­rienced its largest enrollment in history a!i 1 ,711 students regis­tered for course during the first semester of the I 970-71 aca­demic year. 
Accordillg to figures released by Registrar Donald C. Rosen­thai, I ,574 students are engaged in re.gular, full-time studies at the College while an additional 137 students are taking course on a part-time or special basis. 
Resident enrollment was also at an all-time high with I ,415 young women living on campus in the College's five residence halls. To accommodate the growing number of residence students which increased 140 

r----------------------------(~l~ve~r~~l~as~t--~v~e~ar~.--~th~e~-~c~·o~l~le~g~e 
Pick acountry and improve it. 
reallocated· space creating new dormitory areas in Holy Cross i.Jnd LeMans Halls and opened a 

new  area,  Augusta  Hall,  to  
1student  housing  for  the first  
time.  

Freshmen represent the Jar­gest class with 503 members; sophomores, 468; the junior class includes 377 students; i.Jnd seniors number 235. 
Of the 67 students currently enrolled in oversei.Js programs, 54 are sophomores studying in 
either the new Saini Mary's Rome Program' or cooperative 11rograms with tl1e Lln1·vers1·ty of Notre Dame in Angers, France, Innsbruck, Austrii.l and Tokyo, 
Japan. 
, 

Picture yourself in another land. You are here to help the people and improve their country. It is the type of work that draws out the very best in you because it involves you so deeply in their Jives. 
You will teach and be your own best student. You will build a better society for them and experience the satisfaction that only comes with this genuine sense of accomplish­ment. You will improve yourself as well as others. You will create the understanding between cultures that is so vital today; an understanding that is perhaps best described as Jove. 
It takes a special type of man to do this work. He must be intelligent of mind and heart. This is the kind of man who is a Maryknoll Mis­sioner. Perhaps you are that kind of man. 
If so, you can improve the coun­try of your choice as a Maryknoll priest or brother. 
Write to us. We'll tell you more. Just fill out the coupon below. 
If you keep saying you want to do something with your life-here's your chance to prove it. 
For information, write to 






r--------------:1 
VOCATION DIRECTOR 

I 
Maryknoll Missioners, Maryknoll, N.Y. 10545 I 
Dear Father:I Please send me information about becoming a I Maryknoll Priest D Brother D Sister 0
I I 
I Name ·IAddress 
~==~------------------------------­
City~--------------------~S~ta~t~e_____________ I

I I wanted 

__________ 1!11 __ _
L 
Age Class Zip Code 
J



this chance. 
Monday, October 12, 1970 

Page 4 


THB OBSEBIIE& 
THE OBSERVER An Independent Student Newspaper GLEN. S .. CORSO, Editor GAETANO M. DeSAPIO, Publisher FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE. DAME, INDIANA  Greycoats Ted Price Three Notre Dame students were arrested Saturday on a charge of possession of stolen property. The three! all long haired, were taken into custody by St. Joseph:~ County sheriff':~ deputfes at the reqaest of Mr. Arthur Pears after they entered the east wing of the South Dining Hall in Military Academy uniforms. It was cloudy, windy and wid Saturday morning-looked like  

Finances 
It is most unfortunate that The Scholastic~" editors have chosen to intlate what was essentially one afternoon conversation between two people into a "proposal" that threatens The Scholastic :s· integrity. 
When we resumed publication there were several things we decided to ask for from the University. Among those was academic credit for the editors, and some sort of financial remuneration. We also wanted to determine what The Observer's financial relationship with the university would be in the future. 
We have talked to people in the administration concerning academic credit for some members of the staff and as of this moment the issue is still unresolved. Those that we talked to have reacted favorably to the proposal. . 
As far as financial matters go we have mentioned various ideas to the administration, who in the abscence of any definite proposals, have arranged a meeting to discuss the matter. While many may feel that we are motivated by purely mercenary motives, the fact need only be mentioned that several of our editors are holding down University jobs in addition to their work on the paper. 
Several prominent people in the administration have talked of the possibility of a merger between The Obser­ver and The Scholastic. The plans men­tioned would insure that the integrity of both publications would remain intact. Only the financial bases of the two publications would be operating from a single financial base. 
Since we felt that it was virtually possible that the University would greatly increase 

$ 

the allotment presently given The Scholastic to cover both publications a question arose as to how much money each would get. 
It seemed obvious that Tile Scholastics funds would be drastically cut, possibly to the deteriment of the publication. In order to assure their continuance as a weekly journal of opinion and commentary one possibility that was raised was to have The Scholastic printed on newsprint. It was this possibility that Guy De Sapia and Steve Brion talked about. 
The Scholastic currently receives a budget in the neighborhood of $50,000 to produce their magazine. With this money the magazine is produced and editors are paid. Our estimates show that The Scholastic could be printed for less than $10,000 a year, leaving the remaining monies for salaries, and new equipment. 
When The Scholastic editorial made the ludicrous charge of political back stabbing and bickering they seemed to imply that we were using unsavory means to take over their magazine. Nothing could be more untrue. We arc interested in turning out a daily newspaper and nothing else. We have no desire to see The Scholastic as a kind of "dessert" for The Observer:~ "meat and potatoes." 
We would like to see what we consider reasonable requests satisfied, yet at the same time would not like to see a sister publication suffer for it. However we are committed to the continuance of The Observer as a daily publication and plan to use all the resources at our command to obtain at least a bare minimum of aid. 
A.~ \nJUSU,A.L FOAMA.TIO~ ! 

another cold day in the stands. So you sleep in, right? You've got two guests staying in your room, one on a borrowed cot and the other on the floor. It'd be too much of a hassle to climb over them and get dressed, so you roll back over. 
When your roommate comes back, and after cadet guests are dressed and gone, you decide to go to continental. 
You go through lthe line, get yourself a newspaper and sit down with your roommate to enjoy a rousing breakfast. At the far end of the hall, policemen are strolling in for a university-provided meal. You and your roommate decide that the state police have the coolest uniforms with their campaign hats. The county sheriff's deputies have the ugliest ones: a rank-looking sort of brown. 
A few minutes later, three more uniforms walk in. They are the dull gray jobs that the Academy cadets wear. But these guys are no cadets. Fox that you are, you spot that right off. 
Their entry creates a minor stir among the cops. You notice a few of them pointing and talking. This goes on for maybe five minutes. Then a few of the cops get up and confer with a tall guy who looks to be their leader. 
Arthur Pears, Director of Campus Security. breaks out of the group (You're a little surprised -you hadn't seen him enter) and heads for the guys in the uniforms. He talks to them for a moment, then motions toward the back wall. Standing there is a growing group of police: local, county and state. They appear somewhat eager. 
Two of the kids get right up and move toward the police. The third has a bad leg and has to get his crutches and hobble hack. Pears mumbles something about "possession of stolen property." There is a small conference: "Who's gonna make the arrest'!" 
Some of the other cops are searching the three men in question. Their coats are removed, leaving them bare to the waist. They are ordered against the wall and frisked. The guy with the crut~.:hes has a cigarette in his mouth. It is removed with proper machismo by a South Bend city cop. 
After it has been determined that the three are unarmed, they are handcuffed behind their backs. The uniform coats are not returned. The one with the injured leg has his crutches taken away. As the thret: art: marched out, the city policeman who had taken away his cigarettt: elbows the now ~.:rutchless suspect in the solar plexus as he limps by. 
To be sure, Mr. Pears had probably cause to believe that the · uniforms wen:: stolen. I was later informed by an officer accompanying the cadets that three uniforms had been reported missing. 
The officer (he asked that I not use his name) said that he did not know whether cadet uniforms were ever sold for surplus. 
"But," he added, "the name of the ca(iet owner is stampeJ on 
then and thost: stamps won't come out." 
Okay, you've got three missing uniforms and three uniforms 
being worn by people who are obviously not cadets. And you've 
got a pretty easy way of checking to see if these uniforms are the 
ones reported missing. So, if you are the university's chief of 
security, and if you have civil police right on hand, you have the 
kids arrested. But does it take twenty men to take three into 
custody'! And if the three show no resistance, as I saw these three 
show no resistance, why the elbow in the gut to one who is 
limping and handcuffed? 
I would be greatly distorting the truth if I called the treatment 
of tht1 prisoners "police brutality." But the almost jovial manner 
with whieh the police went about their business, capped by the 
one officer's striking the one suspect, left a bitter taste in my 
mouth. 
It's easy to read about such an incident and say that it's a 
mountain in mollehill germination. But to watch it sets you 
thinking. Police lately have been the target of a great deal of 
criticism. They are underpaid for the services they perform, but 
many of them an: woefully undertrained as well. And as long as 
the populace is content to simply bitch about police without the 
willingness to pay them properly and train them properly, 
suspects will be elbowed. . 
Fancy PR programs by community relations divisions of police 
forces don't solve the problem. And the nonconstructive 
complaining does detract from a group of men whose duties I 
wouldn't take on for any amount of money. We're all at 
fault--those of us who yell "Pigs" and worse at police, and the 
sometimes overzealous officers themselves who elbow prisoners 
under arrest. 
There is no easy solution to the police vs. students problem. 
But a start could be made. With a little thought. 
Executive Editor: Jo~n Kr•orr Associate Editors: Dave 
Managing Editor: Bill Carter Stauffer. :..ue Bury 
Editorial page EcHtor: T.C. 
Night Editor: Don RuaneTreanor l~ews Editor: Ed Ellis 
Headlines: Tim Burke, Joe Abell 
Features Editor: Dave Lammers Sports Editor: Terry Sllields 
Layout: Joe Abell, Tim Burke :;Me News Editor: Jeanne 
JU)nht Controller: Jim McGrath sweeney 

Monday, October 12, 1970 
THE OBSERVER. 


ridin' hish 



(Photo by Joe Lock) 



Sixty-seven hours later ........ . 

MilfeLeneltan.Grade16Whot Idid on the weekend 
Me and my friend Chuck (Chuck has a '65 Chevy Nova II with a 327/350), we know this guy Phil who has a Vette and works nights at the Shell station on Market st.. Well, he told us at Notre Dame College there was going to be this show and he said we should go, as he knew me and Chuck liked the old kinds of songs. Because the band that was playing at this show sings old songs, Phil told us. Phil, he knows all about music on account of he has an 8-track in hi~ Vette and lots of tapes. 
Me and Chuck used to go to Notre 

J. J. Cottrell 
The movie 'Fahrenheit 451' will not be shown this Monday and Tuesday as planned, but will be shown this 
Thursday and Friday. 

Dame College sometimes to see shows, but we don't go much any more 'cause most of the shows they have there now 
have hippie music," which me and Chuck don't like too well. But Phil told us that this show was having SHA-NA-NA, who sing all the old songs that me and Chuck would remember from junior high. That sounded extremely attractive to us so we decided to go, and besides Phil said there's always lots of girls around the college. 
We were surprised when we got there cause they have this big gym for the dances and shows, but there was hardly any people there. So me and Chuck snuck 
up to the good area even though we only had tickets for the bleachers and watched the show. 
SHA-NA-NA really has a lot of class. Not like some of those hippie music 
bands that just stood around stoned on dope playing. Instead, SHA-NA-NA has a lot of class. There was a OJ that introduced them, and they came running and dancing on the stage just like the old bands used to. Except only three of them had on their gold suits. Chuck said that was probably on account of the other guys lost theirs on the bus or something. We didn't care, however, because of the fact of the show, which was so good. Not to mention that they did two encores, instead of those stingy groups that never come back no matter how long you clap. 
Most of the people 1here weren't 
. hippies, so they liked the show pretty much too. First they sang "Get A Job", then one of my favorite old time songs by the Del-ikings, "Come Gf) With Me". And also "Silouhettes" by The Rays and "Yakety-Yak" by the -Coasters and "Book of Love" by the Monotones, 
which is one of my other old favorites that reminds me of when I was going steady with Shirley, who was a cheer­leader. 
One of the best parts about SHA-NA-NA was their variety of their music. They could do fast songs not to mention slow. They had a lot of class because they could dance all around while they are singing. One neat thing they diU singing "Blue Moon" by the Marcels was, all during the song they had blue lights, but when they came to the part about the moon turning gold the lights turned gold. Another funny thing was when one of the singers spit on one of the guitar players. Me, I thought it was accidentally, but Chuck said they probab­
ly worked it out in one of their band practices. Anyways, it was funny and everybody got a big chuckle. Chuck liked the show too, especially because they played his very best song, "Walk Don't Run" by the Ventures. Most of all the other people there, not being hippies liked it too. 
Then if you didn't have anything to do 
Psge 5 
gettin' hish 
(Photo by Joe Lock) 
after the show, they provided you with another guy, Johnny Rivers, who also sang songs popularized by other bands. Me and Chuck didn't like him so well, on account of like Chuck said: "He sings like my old man in the shower, except the only thirig is he has a good voice." We stayed and watched him for a while, however, because he was a nice guy, but. pretty soon we decided to forget about the girls and go home, as I had a composition to write for Monday and on 
the  next  day I  had to  go  to my  
grandmoth er's.  
J. J. Cottrell  



Page 6 THE OBSERVER Monday, October 12, 1970 
--~------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Grad union meets for first time 
By Jim E. Brogan 

dents, whose sole direction w power." originality ot thought. While we
this reminder lelt•~r was "to ask 

Last Fridzy afternoon the auld be aimed at problem Lorimer then proceeded to don't claim to have any perfect
that you include the graduate

Graduate Student Union md as solving. This new committee read a letter which he had sent answers we are o;:ager and fully
student whenever you think of 

a whole for the first time this woudl be formed in place of out early last week to admini­prepared to help in the search.'"
the University of Notre Dame 

year. granting graduate students a seat strators, department chairmen, The GSU then delved into its
community." In remembering

G.S.U. President Bill Lorimer on the Student Life Couwil, and the Board of Trustees, future, discussing the growing
these forgotten men and women,

chaired the meeting which which administrators feel reminding them "that the grad-interest of the Law School in
was some I believe that you will discover a 
intended to include represenat­is an inappropriate body for grad sending representatives to GS U 
uate student still exists at the group of concerned, mature,
ives from all 26 of the graduate students. who a assemblies, and the need for new
University of Notre Dame." eloquent people possess
departments in the University, However, any action on this rulings regarding the constitu­
Lorimer's purpose in posting remarkable clear-headedness and 
although only 13 departments proposed grad committee was tion of a quorum in the future. 
were actually. present. Cited as tabled until after today's SLC reasons for the meager atten­meeting, when hopefully it will dance were the facts that not all be determined by that body 

Panel to advise doctors 
whether or not grad students
departments had elected rep­the right of privacy, conduded resentatives yet, as well as the should be gran ted a seat. WASHJN(;TON (UP!) The and other medical people about hearings on the matter last 
Miffed by the fact that they Nixon administration, uneasy -the dangers of overuse. "It will
confusion that arose · from the month following reports that the
inform educators that perhaps it

change in location of the meet­comprise such a large and about the possible misuse of Department ,>f Health, Educa­
integral part of the University, amphetamine drugs to calm is as much a problem of the kind
ing from the Library Auditorium tion and Welfare has spent about 
to the LaFortune Amphitheatre. and yet are denied any represena­overactive school children, will of school room that children million this year
$3 financing tion on its highest legislative convene a scientific panel to have to adjust to rather than experimental use of the drugs on 
The main order of business body, the graduate students are draft advice to child doctors and what is wrong with their cor­at least 15 0.000 children in 
vigorously opposed to Bur­educators on use of the drugs, it texes nervous systems.
was the new Graduate Student Omaha, Neb., Little Rock, Ark .. 
The use of so called beha­

Affairs Committee that was tchaell 's substitute committee. was disclosed Sunday. and other cities.vioral
proposed by Father Burtchaell. In agreement was Lorimer, who Dr. Edward F. Ziegler, direct­modification drugs on The congressman said Sunday 
The con1mittee as proposed branded the Burtchaell proposal or of a new Office of Child overadive school children with his hearings showed the pro­would consist of administrators, "another do-nothing committee Development that includes such brain damage is not new. But grams were undertaken without faculty, and five graduate stu-with absolutely no legislative programs as the popular llead­some doctors and teachers have any-prior research the possi­
on start for preschool needy. duld­recently criticized the practice ble long term effel"t of the drug ren, said in a UPI Washington and complained that it would 

on children. Window interview that he was get out of control.
Scholastic •

1n error 
very concerned about the over­The general abuse of ampheta­use of sut~h drugs on children mines is belit:ved to be one of SMC Trustees 
(Continued from Page 1) paper and continue to do so. who really do not require them. the nation's most critical drug 
(Can tinued from Page 1) Sixth, The Sci: J/astic, on page "l am planning in the ncar abust· problems. dation to the Board 01 .-.us tees. 
forced to set up "some sort of future to bring together in Rep. Cornelius Gallagher, D.
18, reported that national UPI The Associate Board of Trus­advisory board" as a result of coverage began in September of Washington a blue ribbon panel M.ll., began an investigation last tees is composed of the non­
the fiasco surrounding the into use the
of scientists and pediatricians to month the of
1969 under editor Guy De student members of the standing
censorship of Vacilline in the Sapia. Actually national news isstH: a statement to the nation behavioral drugs on school child-com mi !tees and the Board of
spring of 1969. The Observer has ren.
on this problem."
UPJ coverage began in the fall of Trustees. Miss Tracey is the first
had an advisory board since it the that
1968 under then editor Bill Ziegler was asked if lie urged Sunday the 
was established and the Vacilline panel would issue guidelines on government make a "prompt student ever to be invited to a
Luking.

incident did not alter that Seventh, The Scholastic on the use of such behavior drugs. and complete review" of its role meeting. She had not voting was askt•d to
situation nor was there any page 18 reported that current "(;uidelines are difficult in in financing such programs. privilieges, but she 
pressure at the time to alter the Publisher Guy De Sapio and this case," he replied. The (;allagher, chairman of a comment on some points and to structure of the board that then editor Dave Bach disagreed statement will warn pediatricians House special subcommittee on say a few words at the end. The existed. The advisory board As.~odate Boi.lrd seemed to feel 
over the feasibility of purchasing
consists of faculty members who that it was a good idea to have a
new printing equipment this fall. 
are available to give advice to the YAF asks aid for sol•llers student present.
Actually both were in agreementeditor and who assist in selecting Reports were presentt:d to the
equipment should
that the new ·which normally takes five to ten
a new editor each year. The be purchased. Young Americans for Free­Associate Board of Trustees
days.

Scholastic reported that the dom will be in both dining halls from each of the tour standing
Eight, The Scholastic, on page 
Items may be brought to 828

board "was established...to hear 19. in the last paragraph, re­Wednesday and Thursday col­committees. Sister Raphaeli ta 
or ROn Crace any timt> prior to

the responsibility further that Observer lecting items to send to Vietnam also gave a report on admission.
of ported The was Friday morning, October 16.
editorial outrage." All editors servicemen for Halloween. She stated that St. Marv's has to
launched five years ago. Adually have borne full responsibility for The Observer was launched four A hospital nurse in Phu Bai, H•u•nattr take a stand on minority enroll­
South Vietnam, the sister of one ment. The Associate Board ofthe editorial content of the years ago. 
of Y .A. F.'s members made them to serve Trustees heard several other aware of the conditions at her Dr. Robert llassenger. assis­1 eports.
FOLLOW THE TEAM 

hospital. Beyond the obvious tant professor of sociology and Miss Tracey felt that her morale problems in a Vietnam education, will serve a three-year attendence at the meeting was 
on Student Union's 

hospital, the drinking water at term as editor of Sociological profitable. She said, "Ohe reason this base is so poor that it is Analysis, a quarterly publication I'm really glad that there was a 
virtually undrinkable. of the American Catholic Socio­student there is that there has Therefore, she asked for Kooi­logical Society, New York, N.Y. been a feeling that the Trustees 
W££K£ND TRIP 
to 

Aid (with sugar), Wyler's pre­Hassenger also serves as asso­were insensitive to the needs of sweetened lemonade, etc. Also ciate editor of Sociology of the students, but I found thai needed is "stuff to help bring Education, a quarterly publica­there .was a real concern on the



MISSOURI 

Halloween to the guys here," she tion with editorial offices in part of many of the Trustees." said. Washington, D.C., and is a She also felt that ha attendence Sales at the Campus Travel Bureau 
Halloween candy, pumpkins, member of the editorial board of was good for communication black and orange crepe paper, Jossey-Bas Inc., a publisher of because it let the students 
TICKETS AVAILABLE WITH OR WITHOUT 
and any other appropriate items higher education materials. themselves understand the rea­HOTEL ACCOMODATIONS 
will be collected by Y AF. He was recently named chair·· sons behind the decisions of the Money will also be collected to man of a panel discussion Associate Board of Trustees, and buy these things and cover the planned for the annual meeting because it gave the students an
Limited Seats 

postage. of the American Council on opportumty ,o express their 
Packages will be mailed PAL, Education in St. Louis, Mo., opinions on a decision-making level. 
All Sales Final 

'r=====================================================~~d~ir~e~c~t~d~c~·l~iv~e~rz_Y__!9~etna~~n~c~·x~t~w~e~c~k~------------------­
1brkish 





Delight 
Step right up We've got and me<~t Salvatori's watchstraps. Turkish Tapestry. So sensational, We've got belts. they'll give you We've 1;ot braces. the wiggles. 
At fine 1stores everywhere or write: 

[IALVATORf) 
440 fn.glew·~od Ave.,S. E., Atlanta, Ga.30315 A Division of Smart Products 



Tim Kelly led an aggressive Irish defense against the Cadets. Kelly and the other linebackers were bothered somewhat by the passing of Bernie Wall but as Army's coach Cahill stated, "There were some awful good 'hits' out there." 
.. 
. ' 

Joe Theismann follows through on one of his 19 completions. Joe now has 98't yards. 


Darryl Dewan was the leading Irish rusher. The soph h.alfbacJ< racked up 65 yards in It carries. 

Pat Steenberge did a commendable job in leading the second This is why the defense surrendered only 16 yards on the ground. team offense to two touchdowns, scoring one himself. Said Tom Cahill, "They were a very physical ball club." 

Ara knows No. I means perfection 
by Terry Shields 

Parseghian was not very satisfied offense lacked consistent at­this Saturday. Other Irish in­the arm of quarterback Bernie
Observer Sports Editor tack." Ara feels that his team is
with the performance of his juries were minor and people Wall. Wall had a fine second half 
His team gained 57 4 yards third ranked Irish. the best and anything less than like Larry Parker, MiJ<e Martin showing, completing 14 passes in 
total offense. It held its op­perfection just won't do.
"I was not pleased with and Steve Buches should be this half. This was truly remark­ponents to a meager 16 yards several phases of our play today. Army coach Tom Cahill ready for the Tigers. able when one considers the 
rushing. It scored 51 points and should have such worries. He
Our kickoff coverage and our The game itself was simply a tremendous pressure that he was 
at the same time limited its rushing game were places where was pleased that his Cadets even question of how well the second under from the Notre Dame line. 
opponent to ten. Yet Ara some work is needed. The managed to get on the board team would perform once the The front four, with Walt 
against the vaunted Notre Dame 
first unit had had enough of a Patulski in particular,putting on 

defense. Of the Irish Cahill said, 
workout. As has become the a great rush. He repeatedly

"They are a great football team. right was
custom, there is nothing to say connected before he 

They're very physical with good 
dumped by the onrushing line­except praise for the play of Joe

depth and great balance. Theis­man.
Theismann. Minnix and Gate­

mann to Gatewood is ari unstop­
Even though Notre Damewood both caught bombs frompable passing combination." 

thoroughly dominated play,The quotes from both coaches Theismann. Mike Creany, who 
had four receptions for the day, some credit should be given to 

serve as a measure of the game. 
the Army for their desire. Theycaught a short pass for six.

Even the reaction in the Notre 
came through with some tremen­Besides Theismanm 's eight yard

Dame cheering section reflected 
dous "hits" even when the game scamper, Pat Steenberge closed

the opinion of the contest. It 
was far out of reach.
the days scoring with a four yard 

took an unusual amount of Going unnoticed is a streak of
second effort _run. Ed Gulyas,

screaming and yelling by the 500 successful snaps from center in
who picked much key yardage in 

Cadets on the other side of the kicking situations. Steve Buches
the early going, also scored a TO

field to get any kind of reaction has made 137 consecutive passes 
from six yards: out. Darryll

from the Irish backers. It was since he was appointed this
Dewan, the leading rusher of the

just one of those games that duty. Last week's films showed
afternoon with 65 yards in II

makes fans wonder why it that it was the holder not
carries, sprinted through a small

should even be played. Nothing Buches who made the error in an
opening for a score from I 0 

was proven that wasn't already extra point attempt against
yards out.. 

known. The only incident of any MSU.
One sour note for the Irish

interest was an injury that could· After the game Cahill was 
was the end of their shoutout

possibly play an important role relieved that Army would now
string. ND had held. opponents

in the remainder of the Notre "get back in their league, playing 
scoreless for 11 straight quarters 

Dame season. This was the Nebraska, Tennessee and Notre
up until Art Jensen booted a

injury to Larry DiNardo. 
Dame on back to back Saturdaysfield goal from 42 yards away.

Everybody's All-American is sort of tough."
Jensen had missed on an earlier

guard was kicked in the knee 
The Irish will now try to47 yard attempt. The score came

and a severe sprain was the 
smooth out the rough spots thatafter the Irish second team

result. It is not yet known Parseghian mentioned in prepar­
Walt Patulski and Bob Neidert haul down Army punter Danhof whether the Irish co-captain will offense had fumbled the ball ation for this Saturday's nation­for safety. away at the NO 25.
be ready for the Missouri game ally televised game at Missouri.
Walt Patulski got some respect The atmosphere in Columbiaback by leading the charge on a should be a little different thansafety, when Army punter Dan­

Statistics-the shutout string ends 
that which was present at duLachof fumbled the snap and was this past weekend. A coach once

TEAM STATISTICS USMA NO RECEIVING NO YDS TO pulled to the ground. First Downs Rushing one
said, "When your're number

1 16 Gatewood 8 136 The defense finally gave up a 
First Downs Passing 11 Creany 1 everyone wants a piece of you."
14 

4 35 1 bonafide score in the third
First Downs by Penalty 0 Mizzou definitely would like to
1 Parker 2 31 0 quarter when Army drove 48
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 12 31 Trapp 24 take a big chunk out of the Irish 
Number attempts rushing 2 0 yards in plays mainly onseven machine.
19 66 Gulyas 2 21 0Yards gained rushing 39 Minnix
279 

Yards lost rushing 23 Yoder
21 
15 0
NET YARDS RUSHING 16 258 Cieszkowski 

9 0
Number passes attempted 46 36 Barz 

5 0
Number passes completed 21 
22 Number passes had intercepted 4 

1 NET YARDS PASSING 235 316 PUNTING 
NO. 

AVG,Number plays total 55 102 Yoder 
5 40 
TOTAL OFFENSE 251 

574 Number interceptions 1 PUNT RETURNS NO.
4 

YDS. 
Yards Interceptions Returned 8 7 Crotty 3 
34 

Number times punted 9 5 Schlezes 1 0 Number punts had blocked 0 
0 
PUNTING AVERAGE 38.0 40.0 KICKOFF RETURNS 

NO.. 

VDS.
Number punts returned 2 4 Parker 

8
NET YARDS PUNTS RT'D. 

29 34 Dewan 
20
Number kickoffs Returned 8 2 Yards kickoffs Returned 
143 28 
Number times Penalized 
3 7 TOTAL YARDS PENALIZED 29 55 Number times Fumbled 3 3 

ARMY 
NUMBER FUMBLES LOST 
1 2 

RUSHING ATT YDS TO 
NOTRE DAME 21 9 14 7 51 Wall 4 -21 1 Hines
ARMY 5 10 0
0 3 7 0 10 

Ritacco 8 17 0 Atha 1 0
SCORING 7 
Jones 
1 3 0 NO: Minnix 40 pass from Theismann, Theismann pass to Gatewood 
NO: Theismann 8 run, kick failed 

PASSING 
ATT COMP INT YDS TO
NO: Gulyas 6 run, Hempel kick Wall 

41 20 
4 217 0
NO: Safety (Danhof tackled by Patulski) Atha 

5 1 
0 18 0
NO: Gatewood 29 pass from Theismann, Hempel kick 
USMA: Jensen 42 fieldgoal NO: Creany 4 pass from Theismann, Hempel kick USMA: Wall 1 run, Jensen kick NO: Dewan 10 run, Hempel kick 

RECEIVING 
NO YDS TO
NO: Steenberge 4 run, Hempel kick Masciello 

1 20 0 
Triplett 4 0
80 

NOTRE DAME Francis 7 
42 0 

Hines 
4 41 0 RUSHING ATT YDS TO Gaines 3 37 0 Theismann 4 -11 Ritacco 2 15 0
1 Gulyas 13 
54 1 Minnix 12 49 0 Barz 
5 20 0 

Cieszkowski Fred Swendst~n applies the kind of pressure that Army qb Bernie
7 30 0 

Parker Wall faced all aftt~rnoon.
3 10 

0 PUNTING 
NO. AVG. Danhof 
Dewan 11 65 1 
Steenberge 5 13 1 9 38 Trapp T 
16 0 

•UNT RETURNS
T. Wright 1 2 0 NO. YDS. Wotell 
2 29 
PASSING 
ATT COMP 
INT YDS TO 

Theismann KICKOFF RETURNS NO. YDS.·
29 19 
0 277 3 

Steenberge 7 3 Triplett 8 143
1 39 0 










