
Vol. V. No. 29 
=~:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·::::::::::§!
Brademas asks for :::: DeS•plo, Corso ::::: 
New Judicial Code 
m~ reslan posts m:

fiscal changes finally approved 
By Ann Therese Darin 

f.i The ob?-~:~i:nnounoed J

"This year in the US Senate we have seen a coalition of Re­publican and Democratic Con­gressmen begin to put the spot­ligt.t on Pentagon recommen­dations and to ask some tough questions," Congressman John Brademas (D,Ind.) said last night, speaking to 60 students in the Library Lounge. 
He claimed that defense spending, "one of several critical national priorities," must be re­ordered. He is basing his cam­paign for a seventh term as In-

Congressman John Brademaa 
St. Mary's gets $200,000 
Sister M. Alma Peter, C.S.C., acting president of Saint Mary's College, has announced the re­ceipt of a $200,000 unrestricted gift to the College. 
The funds, donated by a friend to the Chicago phase of "Program for the Seventies," is the largest contribution to the Saint Mary's development pro­gram to date. 
In receiving the gift for the College, William R. Dillon, a partner in the legal firm of Concannon, Dillon, Snook and Morton and chairman of the Chicago phase of the develop­ment program, noted: "Saint Mary's extends sincerest thanks to her benefactor and accepts this most generous gift as a vote of confidence in her future as an outstanding liberal arts college for women. I feel certain that this gift provides the impetus we need to successfully complete our development drive in Chicago." 
"Program for the Seventies" plans to raise $5 million through a series of special gifts drives in major cities throughout the country. Funds from the drive will be used in support of the College's growth in three major areas: faculty development, stu­dent aid and improved campus and academic facilities. 
Founded in 1844, Saint Mary's is one of the nation's oldest and largest Catholic col­leges for women. This Septem­ber the College recorded its lar­gest enrollment in history with over I,600 students, diana's fourth congressional dis-;::::ctay that it had accepted thei::: By Floyd Kezele trict representative on this pre-;~:~resignation of Publisher Guy De:~;~ mise. :;:;Sapia effective immediately. ;;:; A new Judicial Code was 
"A number of us in Congress ;:;: Editor Glen Corso will now::;:; approved for Notre Dame by the have been saying to the presi-;:::assume the title of Editor-in-::;:; Student Life Council at a special dent in effect to spend the mon-;:;:chief. ;:;:; meeting yesterday afternoon in ey on education instead of on ;~:~ De Sapia has held the position~:~: the Center for Continuing Edu­defense spending,"explained ;:::since April when his term as:::; cation. The code provided the Brademas. As a ranking member ;:;;editor of the paper expired. f right of appeal by both bodies to of the House Committee on ;:;: De Sapia had held the posi-:;:; a tri-partite appeals board. With Education he criticized Presi-;~;j1:ion of publisher on a temporaryi:i: Father Hesburgh's approval the dent Richard Nixon's recent ve-:;:;:basis. He had assumed the posi~:;: only remaining step needed to toes on educational appropria-:;:;tion with the understanding that::;: implement this code, the univer­
tions. :;:;he would leave after helping to~~;~ sity is, in the words of one mem­
"A year or so ago, with a rna-;:;:ease the transition from one ad-~;:;: ber, "well on the way to having jority of Republicans and Demo-;:::ministration to another. :;:;: one of the more liberal if not the crats in both houses, so I don't ;~;~ In his resignation, De Sapia~:~;: most liberal judicial code of any say this in any particular parti-;:;:pointed out that he felt that that:::; college in the nation." san vein, we voted to-add a bil-;~;~purpose had been accomplished.~;~; Yesterday's passage marked lion dollars to the president's :;:;He also pointed out that he had:;:; the culmination of nearly three budget on education. Well, now :;:;had disagreements with members:::; years work at revising the former this sort of thing is done from ;:;:0 r The Observer staff over what:::; code. Although the code had time to time for new boats for :~:;constituted responsible and~:i: been discussed and passed, it was the navy, but it's not done for ;:;:taste f u 1 can 0 n s 0 f:;:; rejected by the Board of education," complained Brade-;j;~journalism. ~;~; Trustees, because it did not mas. ::;: :;:; allow the Dean of Student's 
"As you know, the president ;j:~: Corso i:~: right to appeal. However, after 
vetoed the bill, b_ut we were able ~;~;~ Observer Editor-in-Chief Glen:i:j working their way through three a~ least once_ this, year to over-;~;~; S. Corso announced yesterday:;:; proposals yesterday, the council nde the presiden_t s veto. In ef-:;:;:his resignation from the Student~::; was able to agree on the final 
feet, we were saymg, we ~ant to :;:~Life Council seat he now holds:::: code. 
see_ more money handled m edu-:;::as representative from Flanner:::; After defeating the first pro­
catiOn .at every level: elemen-:·:· d G T :;:: posal which had called for a tri­
. .;.;an race owers. :·:· tar~, s~.condary. and higher edu-~:~; In his letter of resignation:~:i partite appeals bo~rd with 3 stu­catiOn, he ~ontmued.. " :;::submitted to council chairman::;: dents representation and each 
He and his congressiOnal fac-:·:·p f W'll" F E C ·:·: from the faculty and administra 
t" '' met the same residential :;:; ro · 1 tam · ,agan, orso;:;: . . ­
10~ p . ;:;:cited his recent appointment as:;:; tw_n, the c<mn_cil heard Father resistance ~h~n they con_stdered ::;::editor of the Observer and its::;: Shilts express his support for the a bill pertammg to housm~ and ;:;:;"tremendous" demands on his::;: second proposal on the agenda. urban development, he claimed. :;:;:t. th , .· 1 f t · h' t!;: This proposal set up a Board 
. " . , f d ·.·.· tme as e crucia ac or m Is.·.• 
This f~ctwn o Democrats an ;:;::decision. He also mentioned a::;: with single representatives from 
Republi~ans als? concern the~-;~;~:request from the staff of the;j:i each of the University bodies to 
selves with envuonmental quah-:;:;:paper that he hold only one 0 (::;: her appeals of "serious" charges, ty and "needless" space explora-~=~~the t w 0 time-consumin~j~j wit~ final decision resting in tlon. :i;~g~~!H?:2:~:J~:~~~:·~~:~.;¥;.~;~!;:;.;·:·:·;o;o.·,j:: President or Board of Trustees. 
• , •••••.•••• , ••••••••••••• ·-~-~-·-·-·-·-·-·-·.--·..• ... ! •••• 

lnterhall news letter proposed 
By Tom Bornholdt 
The institution of an interhall newsletter and a program to have Notre Darrie students voluntarily -donate their Georgia Tech football tickets to needy South Bend chi!_dren were atpong the items discussed by the Hall Presidents' Council at last night's meeting. 
The purposes of the news­letter were explained in a written report by the Hall Life Commission. "First, we want to acquaint the members of the Hall Governments with the ser­vices that the Hall Life Commis­sion can provide for the halls, such as arranging for Student Union guest speakers to come speak in the halls in addition to their campus-wide appearances," the report stated. 
"Second, it will provide a channel for conveying informa­tion on programs created by Student Government for the halls." 
"Third, and most important, it will give every mem her of a hall government an insight into what other halls are doing to im­prove their hall life. In other words, we want to include articles concerning what certain hails have done in the areas of hall improvements, hall govern­
ment reorganization, utilization of present hall personnel, hall . lecture series, hall fellows pro­
grams, and more." 
The newsletter is presently 
planned to be sent out every two 
weeks to the Rector, Asst. Rec­
tor, hall officers and section 
leaders in each hall. 
Eric Andrus, Hall Life Com­
missioner, also mentioned that 
he had set IS 00 as his goal for 
the number of student tickets 
for the Georgia Tech game to be 
given to deprived South Bend children. Since he thought that students would be reluctant to give their tickets directly to the kids for fear of not getting them back, a studeNt will simply have his ticket punched and number taken: The ticket would then be given back to the student. The corresponding child would re­ceive a ticket printed by the HPC for the donor student's seat. 
(continued on page 4) 

HPC leaders Mahoney, ..Freckle" and Barkett 
The students w.o:2 admit that it 
is good the ultimate authority is 
on the president or Board of 
Trustees, but that they do not 
want it in the code," Shilts said. 
Mark Winings attacked this 
saying that he was, "amazed at 
what's happened in that the stu­
dents are now thrown on the 
defensive to <justify their ac­
tions." He went on to say he · 
was, "1 00% opposed to the 
second alternative. I believe that 
a majority of students would 
also be opposed since it's a 
mockery that students are not judging themselves." 
At this point Dr. Josephine Ford of the theology depart­ment suggested that a judicial board of two law students and one undergraduate might be more to his liking. Winings dism­issed this claiming that one would not be judged by his peers in such a case. 
Professor Vasoli of the 
(Continued on page 4) 


IMC trustees revise off-c•mpus houslna rules 
By Kate Cassidy 
The action of the Board of 
Trustees on recent student· pro­
posals and the role of the Cam­
pus Ministry in a Catholic Col­
lege atmosphere were the topics 
of discussion at last night's meet­
ing of the St. Mary:s Student Af­
fairs Committee. 
The Board of Trustees passed 
the Drug Policy approved by the 
Committee with only minor re­
visions, but refused to pass the 
Off-Campus Housing Proposal as 
stated. The Board changed the 
age restriction to girls allowed to 
live off-campus permitting only 
seniors to exercise this privilege, 
and excluding the previously 
provided for juniors and stu­
dents over 21. 
Jean Gorman, Student Body 
Vice-Pr.esident and Chairman of 
the Committee, stated that 
several of the members of the 
Student Affairs Council were up­
set about the Trustees' action. 
According to Miss Gorman, 
there was "no actual explana­
tion" given by the Board of 
Trustees for their change in the 
original wording of the Off­
Campus Policy. 
The Director of St. Mary's Campus Ministry, Fr. Glenn Boarman, C.S.C., then addressed the meeting and expressed con­cern that the Student Procedural Manual now being revised leaves no place for the Ministry on the various policy committees of the College. He suggested that he be given time to meet with his As­sociate Directors in order to formulate a statement concer­ning where the Ministry feels it should stand with regard to Stu­dent Government. 
Father Roger Cormier, C.S.C., 
Associate Director of Ca muus 
(Continued on page 4) 


Page 2 THE O&r£RVER. Tuesday, October 20, 1970 

r······································· 
THE GREEN GAPER RETURNS '

TYPING 

Any material. f'll.J' length, charts awl 1icgrams. $.50/page. Will pict up r~nd deliver. Cdl Connie Palh!l, 289-0177 attn .1 f>M 
From Advent 

Until recently the purchaser of a $300 receiver and a $100 record player had to spend another $500 on speakers-­just to avoid hopelessly bottlenecking the quality of the rest of the system, 
The ADVENT speaker has dramatically redressed that situation--in favor of the pocketbook. It is a fact that the ADVENT, selling for $116, has the range and smoothness --is actually superior to-­the most popular $250 speaker system. This means tha-t it is now possible to buy a stereo system which will be completely satisfying to the most critical listener--for far less than was previously possible. 
We think the system described below is nothing less than the right, the best choice for the vast majority of people with a genuinely demanding interest in sound. 


2 ADVENT loudspeakers $232.00 

2000A receiver $299.95
,. 

SL72B automatic turntable with base, dust cover, SHURE M91E cartridge 
$107. 50 

SYSTEM PRICE $639.45 We invite you to compare this system with~ stereo system --even if it costs much more. You can hear it at RMS Audio, right now. 
Incidentally, you can shave another $28 off that system price by getting the ADVENT 
.-,'leakers in 
·a ntility vinyl cabinet that you can hardly tell from walnut. 


RMSAUDIO 
1307 E. CALVERT Phone 288--1681 
OPEN 3-8 M-TH 
1-4:30 SUNandFRI 
CLOSED SATURDAY 





Ford's Pinto displayed on campus 

Ford's new car the Pinto ­is being displayed on Notre D<Jme's main quad for the m:xt few days as a resuft of a nation­wide research project sponsored by the Ford Motor Corporation and the College Marketing Cor­poration. 
Over ISO universities through­out the country have been selected to participate in the contest. Six teen regional grants of $1,000 each and a national prize of a $5,000 grant will he awarded to those schools which best research Iheir target market and the marketing strategy of the new Pinto. 
Each participating school receives for a five week period a fully insured Pinto free of charge for test driving purposes and for publicity. 


The ..Pinto" with the Four Horsemen plus two. 
OBSERVER POSITION 
c~nt~r for Study of Man

OPENING 
to inv~~igat~ drug abu~ 
Why does one brother take drugs and the other refrain, when both live in the same en­



ASST. BUSINESS 
vironment with equal access to narcotics? This central issue of narcotics usage has been and will continue to be studied by the Center for the Study of Man at the University of Notre Dame CALL 87fl7 or 7471 under a $9,500 grant from the 

MANAGER 
U.S. Department of Justice. ASK FOR BRUCE Under the direction of Dr. 
/ 

i
I 
.'i 
~ 
~ 
~ 
2!
N 
i 
~ 
• 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~~ 
Presented by New Jersey Club i .... ....., Oct. 21 ::: ~ I..._A...Itotl•• ::: 
I 7:80 P• ;. • .~... ~:·~.:::

I ••...nFre•N• ..••niOC
:::: ;::
·:0: ::: 
with THE SYMBOL 
i:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:::::;:;:::;:;:;:::::;:;:;;::;:;:;::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:j 
Six Notre Dame seniors major­directed at discovering their car checking the students' reaction ing in Marketing have under­buying habits. Shortly there­to the different media on cam­taken the project as a special after, a sample of those respond­pus to determine where it would course in marketing strategy de­ing to the questionnaire will be he most beneficial for Ford to 
signed solely around the Pinto asked to test drive the Pinto and advertise the Pinto. contest. The students, Bob h·ies, give their reactions to its styling Success of the project de­Jack Hafeli, Eric Korth, Bob and handling ability. A third pends on strong student co­McCarthy. Kevin Moore and Ken phase ol the: projc.:t involver. operation. 
Strottman, together with their faculty advisor, Dr. David Appel, intend to study all aspects of the Pinto marketing plan in relation to the Notre Dame St. Mary's community. The goal of Notre Dame's entry is to identify the potential Pinto purchaser, analyze his o-r her car demands, and finally to present Ford with a complete marketing report. 
In the next few days, over 500 Notre Dame St. Mary's stu­dents will be randomly sc:ected to complete a questionnaire George N. Shuster, assistant to the President of Notre Dame, the "Study of Drug Use" hopes to suggest avenues of prevention and treatment on the basis of ex­tensive data collected in several urban areas, but concentrating on East I OOth St. in New York City. This single block accounts for eight per cent of deaths from 
Other results from the preli­minary study indicate that: 
" 
Drug usage in the East IOOth
I 

St. is declining. The study sug­gests that the growing distrustI* among addicts repels new mem­~ bers, who used to be attracted to
~ 
the tightly-knit drug culture. It is no longer so "in" to he an ad­dict, Shuster explained. 
Fewer addicts work now than in the 1950's. The rising cost of supporting a heroin habit is blamed, for addicts could buy narcotics on their wages in 1950. 
I ~ 
Today, a habit costs about $40 per day, and few unskilled wor­
·:·:­

W kers can earn that much.
* A major shift in the pattern of 
~~ 
I 



Sadie Haw"fns Dance 
II 
~ 

S•turd•y, Oct. 24 I PM-1 AM
~~ 
drug use involves the switch from the use of heroin and co­caine to the most sophisticated use of heroin and amphetamines, barbituates, wine, alchohol and other drugs in various complex combinations. 
Over one-third of those ex­perienced in drug usage on East IOOth St. have kicked the habit, almost all without help from any treatment program. Only three are on the methadone program. 
In examining the effectiveness of the methadone program, the study notes that it does keep ad­dicts from getting sick and des­perate, and apparently helps keep down drug-related crimes. However, the study suggests that methadone users continue to take amphetamines, barbituates and even heroin to secure the 

"rush"  and  the  "high  "  that  
methadone  does not  offer.  
Shuster said  that  methadone is  

not always effective in blocking such a "rush", as its proponents claim it should. 
The study advanced four basic motivations for turning to drugs--to relieve the emptiness of life, to be "slick" or "in," to be a "rebel," and as a resolution to an identity crisis. Few of the East IOOth St. sample men­

_tioned "rebelling" as a moti­vation--this reason is more pre­valent among the LSD set, the study said. · 
(Continued on page 4) 

---------------------------------------------. 
Tuesday, October 20, 1970 
THE OBSERrJER. 
Page 3 





Can Ali return? Find out in Convo 
The fiJrthcoming Clay-Quarry the question is cruelly simple­able of making a great come­match with Jack Johnson in "I was all right in the first few 
can he come back against a back."
heavywcil(ht title fight Monday, which he was knocked out in the rounds," he said, "But every October ]ti, major opponent? The bout of 15 There are others, however,
11.>i// be shown in 15th round. round after that becomes the
rounds, or less, will be shown who feel that ring rust is tough
the Notre Dame Athletic and Jack Dempsey discovered long wait for the bell to ring. It
here at the Notre Dame Athletic to erase.
Convocation Center on large after a layoff of two years be­just can't be done unless you're
and Convocation Center on big As far back as John L. Sulli­tween 1923 and 1926, that re­a superman.''
screen closed-circuit T V. This 
screen, closed-circuit television. van himself, heavyweight cham­flexes don't function as fast and Perhaps Clay is the supermanwill be a direct live telecast from Can Clay succeed in bridging pions will attest to the fact that neither do legs and hands. He of heavyweights. Maybe, because Atlanta, Georgia. Tickets are the time gap where so many a lengthy layoff of more than a lost to Gene Tunney in ten he has constantly kept in con­priced at $ti. 00 with all seats be­other great fighters before him year can be an important factor rounds. Jimmy Braddock spent dition despite his rise in weight,
ing General Admission seating. failed? in a man's ability to fight. The two years from 1935 to I 937 and the fact that he is only 28,Tickets are on sale at the ACC Jersey Joe Walcott, former old saying "the spirit is willing, waiting for Joe Louis and avoid­can remedy the ravages of time. 
heavyweight champion of the etc." has come back to haunt
Box Office, Robertson's, Gil­ing a fight with Max Schmeling Nobody will really know untilworld and one of the most many a great. Sullivan did not
bert's and the h'lkhart Tm th. and while he grew richer from the night of October 26th in the astute of boxing men, has one fight from 1889 until 1892, the delay, he also got himself Atlanta, Georgia ring.
Cassius Clay (Muhammad 

opinion. when he lost the title to James J. 
knocked out in seven rounds.
Ali), undefeated as Heavyweight "A man's habits have a great Corbett. Corbett himself retiredChampion of the World, returns deal to do with his condition," in 1895 to become an actor. He to the competitive ring for the said Walcott. "I consider Cassius came back two years later onlyfirst time in more than 3 years Clay one of the greatest boxers to be knocked out in 14 roundsagainst Jerry Quarry, the No. l I've ever seen. He always took by Bob Fitzsimmons. Jim Jef­Challenger, on Monday evening, care of himself physically. He's fries, who took the crown fromOctober 26th, in the Municipal still a young man and there is no Fitzsimmons laid off from 1905Auditorium, Atlanta, Ga., and 
Sports Shorts 
reason why he shouldn't be cap-to 191 0 and was pitiful in a 
After emerging from Columbia, Missouri, with their unbeaten, untied record intact, the Irish football forces will have two weeks to Last week Jim Plunkett 6,634 yards, breaking the old let their bruises heal before they again take to the gridiron. During 
Plunkett smashes record 
Miss was beaten by lightly re­guided Stanford to its first win NCAA record of 6,568 amassed garded Southern Mississippi, a their mid-season hiatus in play, the Irish can look back with pride on in I 2 seasons over USC and he by Steve Ramsey of North Texas a highly successful first half but it is more likely that they will be
school which hadn't defeated followed up that performance State. looking forward to the second half of the schedule and their
Ole Miss since the two schools by writing his name in the But while Saturday was a day opportunity to become Notre Dame's first unbeaten, untied team
began meeting one another in 
NCAA record book Saturday in to remember for Heisman candi­since Frank Leahy's 1949 squad. 
1913. Southern surprised the 
a 63 -16 shellacking of Washing­date Plunkett, it was a day Heis­The final five games promise to be at least as challenging as the
mightly Rebels by a 30-14 mar­
ton State. man candidate Archie Manning gin. first five. After a breather with the Naval Academy in Philadelphia The sturdy Stanford quarter­of Mississippi would rather for­Mississippi's upset was one of the 31st of this month, the Irish face four tough ball clubs in back completed I 0 of 14 passes get. November. The Pitt Panthers, front-runners for the Lambert Trophy, 
several involving the top-ranked
for 224 yards and rushed for 51 Manning turned in his usual symbolic of Eastern supremacy, will invade ND Stadium Nov. 7
teams. In other surprises Okla­yards to push his career total to sparkling performance but Ole homa knocked off 13th ranked looking for a major upset. The Yellowj ackets of Georgia Tech follow 
the Panthers to South Bend. The Jackets have cooled after a hot
Colorado, 23-J.S; previously start but are still ranked among the nation's top 20 teams. The final
winless Maryland stopped 14th

ND Soccer Club loses 
Irish home game of the '70 season will be against LS U on the 21st. The Notre Dame soccer club they could come. The lone Irish Pittsburgh pulled out a 36-35 
ranked South Carolina, 21-15; 
The Tigers will be seeking to settle a grudge against Notre Dame, although this will be the first meeting of the two clubs. The Tigerssuffered their second setback of goal came on a breakaway up triumph over 19th ranked West 
the season last week, dropping a the middle as Hanlon took a pass Virginia and lowly Syracuse were 9-1 last season but did not receive a bowl bid and felt that 5-l decision to Goshen Wednes­from Hugh Schoemaker and handed Penn State its third loss 
they should have gone to the Cotton Bowl, not Notre Dame. day afternoon in Goshen. The booted it home. of the season, 24-7. The Irish will be smelling that national title, however, and should loss left the Irish hooters with a Goshen put the game out of Top-ranked Ohio State, third be 9-0 when they complete their home schedule. And then there 
reach of the Irish with a single rated Notre Dame, No. 4 will be just one game left (and possibly a bowl game). But that one2-2-2 record this year. 
Goshen scored all the goals goal in the third quarter and a Nebraska, sixth-ranked Air game is against the Trojans of Southern California, in Los Angeles. they needed in the first quarter, pair of markers in the final stan­Force Academy, No. 7 Michigan The last time the Irish traveled to LA with a 9-0 record they were za. and No. 8 Auburn all won as ex­upset by a fired-up Trojan team in the final minutrs of play. That
jumping out to a 2-0 lead. The 
Irish closed the gap to 2-1 on The Irish hooters are in action pected. was in I964, the first year of the "Era of Ara'' and the defeat cost the Irish the national championship. The Trojans have already been
Chris Hanlon's second quarter this afternoon, traveling ·to Second-ranked Texas and No. 
tagged with a loss and a tie this season and will be loose and waitingtally but that was as close as Toledo to oppose the Rockets. I 0 Arkansas were idle Saturday. 
when the Irish come to town. It's going to be a heck of a ball game. Thus far, the '70 season has been most pleasant for the Irish faithful. There have been many bright moments and only a few

I nterhall standings tied-up 
unpleasant memories. Here are a few of each: On the bright side ... 
Dillon romped over Sarin Grace and St. Ed's will look for LEAGUE I Tom Gatewood and Joe Theismann have been nothing short of 26-0 and Alumni tied Off­its first win against Flanner. w L T superb this season. Gatewood hauled in 8 passes against Mizzou to Campus 0-0 Sunday to tighten Morrissey tied Pangborn 0-0 Morrissey I 0 I boost his nation-leading total to 44, just 16 short of the Notre Dame 
up the League Two race of inter­but is still undefeated in League Badin I I 0 
single-season receiving mark of 60, set by Jack Snow in '64. Despite· hall football. Next week Dillon One. Lyons topped Badin 8-0 Holy Cross I 1 0 double, and sometimes triple, coverage, Gatewood consistently frees faces Walsh while Alumni is idle, for its first win against two Pangborn I I I himself, makes himself a target for Theismann's tosses. and the final week of the season losses. Next week, Pangborn Lyons I 2 0 The South River Roadrunner has been having quite a season for 
himself. He now has hit on 70 of 113 passes, a .619 percentage, good 
will feature a battle between faces Holy Cross, and Badin these two south quad 'powers. duels Morrissey. LEAGUE II for I037 yards and nine touchdowns. He has been intercepted only Off-Campus will face Sarin this B-P received its second victory w L T four times. Joe has also recorded 1252 yards in total offense, among weekend. without a blemish as Zahm for­Alumni 2 0 I the nation's best. In League Four, Stanford feited. St. Joe's, who will close Dillon I 0 I The offensive line was a question mark at the beginning of the trounced Flanner 28-0 and its season next week versus B-P Off Campus 0 0 3 season but is now a solid unit. Despite the absence of Larry DiNardo Grace tied Keenan 0-0. Next brought its record up to 2-1 b; Walsh 0 I I and the limited action seen by Mike Marin, the Irish still ran up 280 Sunday Stanford will meet defeating Farley 12-6. Sarin 0 2 0 yards rushing against Mizzou. 
In an era of college ball where high scoring is commonplace, the LEAGUE III Irish defense has turned in some outstanding performances. TheyRuggers beaten, 21-0 w L T have allowed but 31 points in five games, a 6.2 average. Ellis, Breen-Phillips 2 0 0 Patulski, Kelly, Stepaniak, heck, the whole starting "D" has looked The Notre Dame Rugby Irish ruggers played a rugged Cavanaugh I 0 I great thus far. And now Mike Kadish has overcome his knee Club's goal of an undefeated game and just failed to get the St. Joseph 2 I 0 problems and is back in the lineup, looking to stop opposing ball 
season came to an abrupt end on breaks they needed to stay in 
Farley 0 2 1 carriers. 
Sunday in Davenport, Iowa. The the contest. 
*Zahm 0 2 0 The Irish backs have really been "marching by" defenders this Palmer Chiropractical Rugby The "B" team had its unde­
*Zahm has dropped from the season. Barz, Allen and Gulyas have done the brunt of the ball Club shutout the Irish ruggers feated streak ended in Ft. Wayne 
league. carrying but Minnix, Cieszkowski, Parker and Dewan are able 21-0. with a 13-11 loss to a Ft. Wayne 
substitutes. The undefeated Palmer team rugby club. The game was con­
LEAGUE IV The Purdue jinx was broken convincingly, the Irish won their first had previously won a big rugby tested, however, on a Ft. Wayne 
w L T game in East Lansing in 21 years and Notre Dame showed their class 
tournament in Canada and seven conversion after a try. I 2
Keenan 0 on national TV Saturday, coming from behind to beat a toughof the team's starters were from The Notre Dame Rugby Club Grace I 0 1 Missouri team. New Zealand. The experienced did salvage a victory out of the Stanford 2 I 0 
And the low spots, well, there haven't been many. The loss of
Palmer ruggers capitalized on all 
weekend as the "C" team won Flanner 0 I I 
All-American Larry DiNardo for the Mizzou contest could have beenthe Irish mistakes. Although its opening game against F,t. St. Edward 0 2 0 disastrous but that crisis has been overcome and Ara's No. I blocker
they were soundly beaten, the 
Wayne 14-5. 

The Observer IS published daily during the college semester excep\ vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subs<.riptions rna~ be purchased for $8 from The Ob· server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

The Irish ruggers, who now carry a 3-1 season record, will re­turn home this Saturday to play the Indianapolis Reds. The "B" game is at I :30 behind Stepan Center followed by the "A" game. 
REMINDER Prospective freshmen fencers Meeting tonight in Convo Auditorium Main Concourse 7:00p.m. 
should be ready to go in the "second half." 
The end of Bill Etter's ·season, before it began·, was most unfortunate. Etter holds the Notre Dame record for the highest average gain per carry (minimum of 25 rushes) as he ran for an average of I 0. 7 yards each time he toted the ball last year. 
Perhaps the most disappointing thing this season though is that Ohio State isn't on the schedule so the Irish can prove conclusively that "We're No. 1.'' 
r 
:•:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:;. 
:;:;Pre-Law Society -Cornell -Dean:;:; 
St. Mary's Campus Ministry draws concern 
:;:;Donald M. Sherraw, Director of:;;~ 
Page4 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, October 20,1970 
~;;Admissions of Cornell Law::;: 
(continued from page 1) 

:;;;School is scheduling interviews:;:; :;:;:for prospective students on Thurs-::;: Ministry, then suggested some :;;;;day, Oct. 23, in Room 205 Busi-;:;: committees which he felt should ::;::ness Bldg. -S~gn-ups for appoint{~ the 
i~~t~;~:;~~;~;;:::::::::::::::::::::;:~:~t Attention 
Students 

Those interested in posi on the following University bodies: 
-University Forum -Student Affairs Subcom­mittee of the Board of Trustees -Student Life Committee of 
the Faculty Senate -Graduate Council -Academic Council -Traffic Review Board place name in nomination 
with resume by 9: 00 Friday morning in any of the following 
• four places: P. 0. Box 454, ·Hayes Healy Room 134, GSU :Office 406 Ad Bldg. ( 
10-4) Grad Students' Mail 


N AQUA•FILM The Contact Lens Wearers Solution to 



COMFORT 
TRY IT TODAY 
I with thit MONEY-SAVINC 
259 OFF COUPON 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
On your purchase of Mi-Con Aqua·Filrn when 
~ 

~ ¢ presented to your favorite supplier. To validate 
this coupon please fill in below.


25 ~ 
OFF 

~ -----------~ ~ 
---------------------~ 
City State Zip ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
MR. DEALER: Mi-Con Laboratories, Inc., Wauconda, Ill. 60084 
will redeem this 25¢ coupon plus postage. Coupon void where 
prohibited by law, taxed or otherwise restricted. 
Ministry. The committees men-Committee and Council, the tioned were the Student Policy Faculty Senate, and the Health Committee, the Student Affiars Committee (particularly with re-

Judicial code passed 
· (continued from page i) sociology department countered Winings' charge, pointing .out that, "The Criminal Code is not regulated by criminals ... there­fore there is no sufficient justifi­cation for students having more say than any other parties involved.'' A substitute amendment for the second proposal was then : introduced by Dr. John Houck, ; of the business department. The 
•amendment called for the : creation of a tri-partite board, which would receive appeals from the Dean of Students under two circumstances: either 
an identifiable actual prejudice . or a misinterpretation of a rule or regulation . by the Judicial Body, or a decision by a hearing body totally unsupported by t}1e 
_ facts presented and certified by ed the matter to the Student at least one member of the hear-Senate to deal with at its dis­
ing body. The Dean of Students cn;fion.­
Center studies drug abuse 
(Continued from page 2) 

overdoses in New York City, even though it houses five churches and three self-help agencies, Shuster said. Over 70 per cent of its residents would like to move, but only 6 per cent have any real hope of doing so. 
The new grant will fund an­alysis of data already collected in a seven-year study of juvenile delinquency in the area, and the collection of some new data to complete the picture. The study is unique in presenting informa­tion not only about the addict, but about his non-addict peers and relatives as well, Shuster said. 
Preliminary results from the earlier study indicate that non­users in the New York City block are not particularly 
the Sea -Gull 
by 

Anton Chekhov 
Washington Hall -Oct. 22, 23, 24 at 8:30 PM 
Tickets $1.50 Information 284-4176 



f'''""""*"<.,,,,,<,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,SE,..f\fi''C>'RS"'''"'''''"'''"''''"'''""'"'''''''"'''''''''"'''"'""i 
I illl!  Student Trip Sign-ups Tonight  I i!lii  
6:30-9:30  Coke Bar  
LaFortune Center Basement  

I Plene Se•t• Only Av•l..ble -Very Few ReiHinln& ~ 
:ij::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::8:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::;:;:::;:;:::::~:::::;:::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::·:::;;::!iii 
cannot appeal beyond the tri­partite board, however the accused may appeal to the President. The amendment was finally accepted but only after several more parliamentary moves. The final vote was four­teen in favor, four opposed, and two abstentions. 
Once the amendment was approved, SLC chairman Dr. William Egan asked if a final vote should be taken on the 
entire code. This was moved, seconded and passed on a voice vote with Student Body President Dave Krashna register­ing the lone dissenting vote. 
In other business the council decided not to take any action regarding the resignation of Observer editor Glen Corso. Instead, Chairman Egan remind-, 
stronger, smarter, more moral or more religious than their addict friends--in fact, the non-users scored slightly less normal on psychological tests. Shuster sug­gests that addicts can use drugs as a resolution to an ide-ntity crisis and as a mechanism for coping with a destructive envi­ronment. Non-users, who appa­rently have no alternate coping mechanisms available, are at the mercy of their degrading sur­roundings. However, Shuster adds, this still does not explain why the non-users do not turn 
to drugs. 

gard to the areas of drugs and 
sex). 

Fr. Cormier felt, however, that although the Ministry should have representation on these Committees, they should try "to remain as far away from the power tensions of the Uni­versity as possible, in order to maintain a position of ob­jectivity in evaluating the life of the community in light of the Gospel." 
'y•f'ill give tickets to S. Bend kids 
(continued from page 1) 

Andrus intends to have an ex­
tensive amount of advertising for 
the program including ads in 
both the Observer and on 
WSND. He is anticipating having 
a place set up for most of Thurs­
day, Nov. 5, in LaFortune 
where the students can come to 
have their tickets punched. He 
felt that if the program is 
success~ul, it would become a 
tradition, and would result in 
beneficial publicity. 

Greg Stepic gave a report on 
Mardi Gras. He explained that 
Mardi Gras' charity output has 
tended to "dwindle" in recent 
years, while the social aspect was 
better than ever in his opinion. 

He favored having the task of 
selling the raffle tickets given to 
the Section Leaders. He also 
supported retention of the five 

percent commission as an incen­
tive for sales. For the same 
reason, he favored a prize for the 
student who sells the most 
tickets, and another prize for the 
top-selling hall. A number of the 
hall presidents doubted that; the 
section leaders would be effec­
tive in this role. 

Towards the end of the meet­
ing, Tim Mahoney announced 
his resignation as Executive Co­
ordinator, and nominated Fritz 
Hoefer to replace him. 

Student attacked lost Sunday 
By Pat Cooley According to Director of Campus Security Arthur Pears, an off•campus student was as­saulted in front of the Morris Inn early Sunday morning. Details of the attack were not released, but it is surmised that the victim was hitchhiking home when the attack occurred. The case is under investiga­tion, and there are several leads. I nvcstigators are reasona hly cer­

~:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::iii$: 
;::: Pre-Law Society -University of:;:;: ;:~Illinois · Dean Edward J. Kionka};: :;:;Assistant Dean of U of I Law::;:; ;~;School is scheduling interviews;:;:: ;:;:for prospective students on Thurr.-:;:;: ;:;; day, Oct. 23, in Room 205 Busi~;;: :;:;ness Bldg · Sign-ups for appoint-::;:; ;:;: ments outside Room 101:;:;: ;::; ~:n?h_a_ughnessy. :;:;: 
~:::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
tain that the attack was not the work of any gangs from South Bend area who have been in­volved in several similar cases recently. 
The student parking lot patrol this weekend found two con­cession stands on the south side of the stadium vandalized. The damage was discovered at about 
9:30 P.M. Sunday night. Extent and value of the loss, believed to be mostly soft drinks, is as yet undetermined. 
A motorcycle belonging to James L. McDonel of North Shore Drive was reported stolen early Saturday evening. It was found Sunday morning, pushed to the easternmost boundary of a field off Douglas Road. Extent of damage, if any, is unknown. 


NOTICE 
On-campus mail is in service delivering to all Notre Dame 
Residence Halls (except Carroll, Lewis and St. Joe) ONLY. Delivery 
5 days a week IMon.·Fri.), one pick-up each day. No postage 
necessary when using on-campus mailboxes to the residence halls. 
Deliveries consisting of over 50 pieces must be bundles according to 
halls, or they will not be delivered. 
Fl 4 









