VOL. IV, No.111 
Wolfe speaks • finale 
by Mike Mooney prodtH.:ers in Hollywood, in that 
slrudurcd society with poets
in hoi h cases, the "newness" is 

and essayists at the top and theResplendent in his electric only in the fad that the new 
"working press" at the bottom.

while suil, author Tom Wolfe authors and prouucers arc The new reporting style was anspoke lo a pat:ked Washington younger than the old authors intrusion on that structure.
llall last night in the finale of anu prouuccrs. "They produce this year's Sophomore Literary as far as I can tell the same But Wolfe felt that devdop­humorous menl the reporting
l;eslival. Wolfe's product," saiu wolfe. of factual into a new literary style was
remarks on the "new journal­Wolfe saw the big change in inevitable.
Ism" brought several bursts of writing L·oming not through the 
spontaneous applause and a traditional methods of poetry or "I don't think people have standing oval ion at their con­the novel but in a breakthrough ever gone Io the novel to find clusi<Hl. in the magazines of the early fantasy," commented the author 
Wolfe opcm:J the evening by '60's. The author soticcd the of '!'lw H!ectric Acid 1\ook-Aid commenting thai in the two change in an "Esquire" article in Test. days he has spent at Notre Dame 196 3, an article that gave to Wolfe noted that "saturation reporting" presented several
he has been askcu "about 27 him his first taste of "saturation limes, What's Ken Kcsay Joing reporting." problems to the reporter. It now'!" Regaruing the fate of the This reporting style is charac­forced the reporter to become "hero" of Wolfe's "Electric Aciu tcrizeu by the telling of the involved in the events and the 
people who made the events.

Cool-Aid Test," the author subject's thoughts as personal commented that Kesay had reactions, an application of 
Finally. Wolfe disagreed with trekked off to England with six short-story techniques in news those readers today who felt Hell's Angels on a "pilgrimage to reporting. Wolfe gave columnist 
that the new journalism should "be in the service of some

the Stone llcnge." The object of Jimmy Breslin and author particular cause." An author,
the pilgrimage in Wolfe's worus Norman Mailer as examples of Wolfe believed, would have
was "logo back to the beginning the new style of non-fiction. enough "egotism" to believe
and start out again to sec where The emergence of the new that his writing was more impor­
we went wrong." style aroused much antagonism tant to him than any single eventWolfe compared the new in the literary world of New or cause on the earth.
journalism to the new breed of York. That world was a tightly-
Apollo prepares for final leg 
SPACE CENTER. llouston home, and also get rid of the got to establish a worklist," ( UPI) Ground control radioed damaged service module. Special Lovell told the Houston Space up final instructions Thursday procedures are required in both 
Center. "We can't just wail around up here. We've got

night to the Apollo H astro­cases, and it was a down to the to..gct the people asleep. So take
nauts on the steps they must wire race to sec if the procedures that into consideration... " 
follow to gel their crippled would be worked out. 
"[ know, Jim, we're very

spaceship hack to earth. Several limes during the day conscious of that," said control­
The pilots, James A Lovell Lovell reminded ground control­ler Vance Brand. "We should he
John L. Swigert and i;rcd w: lors he had to have the instruc­to go another
liaise, aimed for the l'acifit: tions so he and his crew could ready in five 
minutes, that's alii can say."

Ocean <~bout 600 miles southe;tsl check them out. of !'ago !'ago at I:OX p.m. EST By late evening, a not c of Shortly thereafter, they began Friday. If they come in on impatience had crept into his the long readout of figures that target, and if there is a last voice. could spell life or death to the minute break in the weather "We've got to realize we've space fliers. 
they world nwy be able to watch via color television. A cloud blanket and possible thundershowers were forecast 
Members reflect on 

for the recovery area at the time of splashdown. The late Thl!rs­by Charley Myers power and influence of the SLC day night forecast was an abrupt and the future concern for hall change from predictions earlier "The student Life Council is life. The responses varied in each in the day, when officials said still in the process of learning case. the weather would he "very what it is." This sentiment, Fr. Edgar Whelan sees the 
good." 
expressed by Fr. Edgar Whelan, SLC as a powerful influencing 

The cloud cover is expected seems to sum up the attitudes body, and he is not concerned to range from I,500 to 35,000 which arious members of the over its lack of final decision­feet and forecasters said this SLC hold. making power. The purpose of would probably mean observers Fhe SLC members-two the SLC is to look at all aspects in the recovery fleet would not students, two faculty members, of student life outside of aca­be able to sec anything but and one administrator-were demics, he stated, and he feels Apollo 13's final plop into the Ulltcd to yesterday by the that the COUDCil il doina just ocean. 
(;round controllers took the pilots through the entire routine they must follow to get home safely. beginning at the start of their 6:23 a.m. Friday workday, when they line up their naviga­1 ion and warm up their manu­eve ring jets. 
Thousands of specialists have worked day and night devising, and proofing out, the special procedures needed to get the strkkcd spaceship safely home. 
It was rocked by a mysterious explosion 205,000 miles from earth last Monday while ap­proaching the moon for what the pilots hoped would be man's third lunar landing. 
Observer to learn of their im­that. 


Tom Wolfe disagreed last night that the new journalism should "be in the service of some particular cause." 
Cambodia asks aid as VC attack town 
PHNOM PENH (UPJ) -Cam­bodian provincial capital. In­

bodia appealed directly to the formed sources said Cambodian United States for arms and troops killed 15 Vietnamese assistance as the government's prisoners durinl! the assault. effort to drive Viet Cong and North Vietnamese troops out of The embassy spokesman said the country moved toward the the appeal for American arms crisis point. · a1d was not "a shopping list." lie 
An American embassy spokes­said the rcq ucst did not specify man said Friday the appeal was what sort of arms aid was received Thursday and passed on req uJred. It was, in effect, a call for help, he said. 
directly to the State Department in Washington. Other Western 
The Cambodians arc known nations were understood to have 
to he short of military equip­received similar appeals for aid. 
ment. Last Monday Premier Lon The Cambodian call for help 

Nol announced that Cambodia came as Communist troops 
would accept all unconditional 

attacked Takco town early foreign assistance from any Thursday in the first reported source "for the national salva­Communist assault on a Cam-tion." 

this year's SLC 
!ration and Board of Trustees a legislative body with limited will eventually have to listen. power. Overall, he is satisfied with its progress.Father feels that too much of 
Professor James Massey, chair­the council's time is spent on man of the Council, also looks at small issues. The SLC should the SLC in a positive light. He revert to a serious study on the feels that it is a place where "fabric of University life." 

people can be heard, regardless He sees the Council as of what they have to say. spending more time on hall life. 
Issues such as the Placement 

The duties and responsibilities of Bureau, Financial Aid Office,the hall staffs will have to be and hopefully the Judicial looked at, and the role of 
System have been handled by campus clergy may also be a 
the SLC, which shows that the topic for discussion. he stated. 
Council has been active. Professor John Houck of the 
A question which the profes­

business department is less sure 
sor feels has to be asked isof what the purpose of the SLC whether or not hall life is a vitalis. With parietal and drinking part of campus life. lie feels thatrecommendations for the pres­

the students should be assured 

ent taken care of. the SLC has to more individual freedom andconsider what exactly the dim­responsibility, but he hopes thatensions of student life arc. Mr. 
a "party school" image will heHouck feels that a philosophy of avoided.

what precisely is wanted has to In order to insure the passage
be developed. 
of more legislation, Mr. Massey 

A specific aspect which must points to the model of the be looked at is the situation of faculty senate. lie feels that the dorm life. The professor feels more research done on a pro­that it has to he decided whether posal, the better chance it has of we want the sense of community meeting with recognition from maintained, or whether we the administration and Boaru of should live as in hotels. "You Trustees. 
Before it can re~nter earth's atmosphere, Apollo 13 must first Jettison the lunar lander, Aquarius, which has powered it pressions on the SLC for this year, and what they see as its concern for next year. 
Each member talked of the 
He feels that the SLC should be a ''collective voice" of the University community, and that when it speaks, the Adminis­

can't legislate community" he stated. 
Mr. Houck sees the Council as 
Professor Massey sees the issue of l'arictals as an import:1nt step towards hall autonomy. 
(continued on page 2) 




I PAGE 2 
711B OBSERfiEit 
~:...::......;=---==----=-::;:;: 
I 
I SMC trustees to meet 
by Jeanne Sweeney

SMC News Editor The Board of Trustees, the report. According to Dr. Jack 
Other topics of discussion will be off-campus housing, the Edu­Associate Board of Trustees and Detzler, Vice-President and Pro­
cational Plan of the Health
the four committees under it, vost, who is on this committee Service, and Services of the
will meet today April 17th and these three topics "are all follow Placement Office. The recent
tomorrow April 18th at St. up discussions of earlier mat­question of staff students will
Mary's College. This morning all ters." 
also be brought up by Dr. Mark
the committees, the Educational One new topic to be reported Policies Committee, the Student on by Father McCluskey S.J. Rambenek. 
Sister M. Basil Anthony said
Policies Committee, the Student will be the Key-Biscayne meet­Development Committee and ing of the Executive committees 
"the Finance Committee will be 
the Finance Committee will of St. Mary's and Notre Dame reviewing the budget and the whole panorama of the financial
meet and discuss various items which held discussions on the on their agendas. The commit­future of SMC-ND cooperation picturP ." tees consist of specific Board in education. 
The Development Committeeand Associate Board members, 


Fr. Groppi
will again discuss the question of

faculty and students, except for some kind of addition to or
the Finance committee on which improvement of library facilities. 

to visit ND
students do not hold a seat. 

During the afternoon the A report will again be given to The Rev. James E. Groppi, a Associate Board of Trustees will Milwaukee priest and civil rights
this committee by Sister Rita Claire. Under the topic of

meet and then on Saturday the activist, will speak WednesdayDevelopment of Academic Facil­
Board of Trustees will convene. (April 22) at 8 p.m. in Washing­
ities, the committee will discuss

The committees this afternoon ton Hall on "The Church and 
improved science facilities after

will be discussing various topics Social Change."hearing a report by Dr. Lee
and hearing reports presented by A member of a three-man particular people concerned with Benton. pastoral team at Milwaukee's Educational Television at St.
the college. inner city St. Boniface Parish for Pat McDonough and Rick Libowitz, Notre Dame's poobahs-turned­Mary's will be the subject of an
The Board tomorrow will seven years, Father Groppi will athletes, are among the hundreds scheduled to compete in Sunday'saddress by Mr. James L. White,
discuss what the committees said soon be replaced, at his own Boston Marathon. McDonough, former Student Union AcademicDirector of Audio-Visual Depart­
or recommended on the day request, by a black pastor. He Commissioner. ar.d Libowitz, former head of the free University, will ment. Mr. Recker, the Vice
before, as they are the main has not yet decided on a new will be running under the banner of the Corby Stree Striders.
President of Public Relations and Development and Secretary 

decision body. assignment. 
The Educational Policies The 30-year-old priest came 
SLC in retrospect

Committee will be given a report of this committee, said, "Many to public attention in 1967 and 
on the Rome Program by Sister of the topics were already 1968 when he led open housing " members, he notes, have been Alma and a library report by discussed at previous meetings, demonstrations for 200 days (continued from page I) hampered by some of ~he but a more overall picture can faculty and administration
Sister Rita Claire. They will also until a local law was passed. He the part of the Trustees. Stu­know most about what's going
ant professor of biology at Notre 
dents ask for freedom so as to on," Roickle said. 

Dame, has been elected presi­
show their responsibility, where-He noted that the student

dent of the Midwest Benthologi­cal So~.-tety at their annual as the Trustees are looking for body shouldn't be complaining meeting in Minneapolis, Minn. student responsibility before about representation. He sug­




BIDIR VIRTIII 
He will serve from April, 1970 freedom is dispensed. gests that if more people would through March, 1971, and will The SLC next year, DeSapio sit in on meetings, that they
fri. sat. 
coordinate the 19th annual feels, will be looking specifically would see the difficulties which arise in dealing with faculty and
meeting to be held on the Notre at hall life and the idea of hall


CIRIII

n1te n1te 
Dame campus next March. The autonomy. administration. Society is a group of scientists Student representative Ed Roickle concluded by noting 
interested in organisms dwelling Roickle sees the SLC as pre­that "if students would take a on the bottom of lakes, streams dominantly ineffective this year. bigger interest in what's going and other watery environments. Many efforts by the student on, things would be a lot easier." 
Grand Opening 
7:3o e:3o 11:3o 
Coeducational 


Rome Program
INTERESTED IN WORK/STUDY INTERNSHIP 
Sponsored by St. Mary's College 
pplications open until May 1, 1
FOR FALL 1970 SEMESTER 


Obtain one in Office G, LeMans Hall 
Semester applications accepted ifspace is al'(li/ahle 
Information meeting in the Clubhouse 
Meeting Monday, April 2~th 8:00PM, Rm. 204 
Sunday, 8:00 p.m. April 19, 1970 
Open to any interested students 
O'Shaughnessy to discuss details in preparation for 

Class of '72 
presents 


advanced registration. 



MIXER 

at For further information contact: 
LaFortune 
Urban Studies Office 103 Memorial Library 

200 girls 9-12
Saturday Night1 -1 ratio $1.25 
283-1112 

~b~e~h~e~a~-~~~~i~~~~
I opment Employment Opportunities-Nationwide directories of posi­tions. All relevent fields. Accur­ate, current, inexpensive. Information write: Sociocom, Box 317, Harvard Square P.O., 
•' I 
* IT\IST I'\ SILRI <>,lr -Tl AC. :\1 TIC 
l.:\:'\SI'\<. . .IVC 
Cnlur Tl Sos .fi'C 
ZOSS PRODUCTION 
Call 232-2804 
Student representative Guy
now be given and objectives have members.
has also led numerous other civil DeSapio nutes that the newness
been solidified." Roickle feels that the SLC is
rights programs, many of them 
The policy statement on drugs of the SLC poses some of its little more than a recommending
involving the now-inactive problems. He feels that the .areas 
will be one of the main discuss­Council, since all legislation
Youth Council of the National of concern are not thoroughly
ion topics for the Student Policy enacted may be vetoed by the
Association for the Advance­outlined. A big question, es­
Committee. Student Body Presi­President and Board of Trustees.
ment of Colored People. 

dent, ·Ann Marif Trdcey, explain­pecially for students, is what the He states that the mainThe lecture, which is ope·n to exact powers of the Council are.
ed that they will discuss Fr. question for the future may be
the public, is sponsored by
McGrath's statement on drugs. Theoretically, DeSapio stated, who are going to make the rules
Notre Dame's program in the the SLC can .enact on anything
Miss Tracey hopes to introduce and will the halls be autono­
non-violent resolution of human passing through Fr. McCarra­
some changes in the statement mous. Roickle sees a need for a
conflict. 

gher's office and demand a
to correct some ambiguities. She change in the tri-part board response from the president and
also wants to have the commit­structure.

Griffing elected

tee discuss the possibility of Board of Trustees. What happens "The board should be at least drug education on campus. is that there is little giving in on SO% students, since the students
Dr. Thomas C. Griffing, assist­
FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 1970 
PAGE 3 
Campus leaders answer trustees 
by Mike Ruffer "I was impressed at the Late Wednesday afternoon rationales set out for University the Board of Trustees issued 
rule making procedures and their 

their rH.:w proposal for the defense of past measures to improvement of the parietal expand student participation in situation. Their statement spark­
rule making procedures, yet-with ed off a rash of comments from the retention of certain possible one end of the campus to the limits," Wolfe added while glan­
other. 
cing over the statement. Shortly after this new state­ment was issued, Grace Tower 
President Chris Wolfe was con­
tacted and asked for his com­
ments on the issue at hand. 
"I welcome the extension of 
hours and I feel that the new 
limitations arc sensible ones. It is 
interesting that the trustees have 
made an accurate diagnosis of 
the existing situation; one where 
students wouldn't and won't 
enforce any rule around here 
despite student poohahs' pro­
mises to the contrary," Wolfe 
said. 
Student support sought 


by Ed Ellis 
i\flcr a lengthy series of 
meetings v.1th University offi­
cials, ('harlie Zappala, leader of 
the group which has requested 
additional funds to prevent the 
restriction of Gov.:rnment cour­
ses to Government majors alone, 
has decided that his group will 
begin a campaign to organize 
student opinion for next year in 
the fiscal priorities matter, since 
changes for next semester are 
impossible at this late dale. 
Zappala said that he thought 
the Administration was aware of 
some of the problems currently 
being faced by the various 
departments in the College of 
i\rts and Letters. and that the 
people l·oncerned were sincerely 
interested in helping these de­' part ments. llowever, because of 
past spt•nding priorities which 
have favored the "technocracy" 
of the Science and Engineering 
Colleges, the imbalance that 
member next year and a 15% 
rise in the budget. He contended 
that the recent closing of Gov­
ernment courses to non-Govern­
ment majors was the only course 
of action open to department 
head Brinkley. 
"He had to hurl someone," said Zappala, "either the majors or non-majors." 
He went on to explain that it was University policy which had forced the department's action, since the current "unsatisfactory situation" had not been reme­died despite several requests for action from Chairman Brinkley. Unfortunately, nothing can he done about next fall's classes, he said. 
In order to organize student opinion for the issue, Zappala said there would he a meeting Sunday night in room 104 O'Shaughnessy. i\11 students are invited to attend. 

Zappala said exists will not be corrected soon without massive studenf support in favor of such action. 
In addition to the Govern­ment Department, Zappala men­tioned the l~conomics, Sociology and II islory Departmenls as being in situations nearly "criti­cal" with regard to student-fa­culty rations. The only deparl­nwnt in somewhat "good" shape, according to Zappala, is the Fnglish Department but the figures for this arc somewhat 
deceiving because of the Univer­


sity English requirement, which 
Studio 

is not included in the computed 
122 N. Michigan 233-6157 

departmental student-faculty ra­tio. 
Of all the departments in Arts and Letters, Zappala cited Gov­ernment, with its 25-1 ratio, as the worst, despite the expected addition of one new faculty 
WANTED: Female roommates to share house wtth N.D. students on 
N.D. Ave. for 70-71 yr. 
Call: 283-6979 283-3580 283-8954 
E 
*AMERICA* 
next year? 
CaJJ 8357 or 1185 
The Observer Is published dally during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's Collel)ll. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from the Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, I n<1., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 

John Lennon 


Erotic Lithos 
Notre Dame Special! With this ad . . . $150 each. Complete set of 15 $/385. Sets of these lithos sold out in London at $2000 per set . . . This investment offer ex­pire~ Sunday, April 26. Cata­logue available $2.95 and $.I 5 tax. 
CeJlar Gal1ery 
Near Hancock Bldg. 49 Eau Oak St. Chicago 
312-642-6775 
Open till Midnite Fri. and Sat. Noon till 8 on Sunday 

"I am uncertain about what by Father llesburgh to some the exact composition and alti­person or group of persons tude of the new llall Life Board through whom petty political will he. I ht)pe the dwosing of bickering might become invol­members will not be delegated ved," Wolfe concluded. 

Poster controversy 
die bulletin boards, hut he was
i\ controversial poster by the not informed of the dispute.
Notre Dame Zero ~'opulalion The poster which reads "By
Growth chapter, censored Tues­this lime tomorrow, the net
day in the I-1 uddle, will be seen 
today after a sudden change of 

population of the earth will mind by the Huddle manager. increase by a mass of people 
Mr. Ernest Ferro yesterday equal to the total population of called his removal ol the poster Salt Lake City-190,000 individ­Tuesday a "thoughtless action," uals every 24 hours. Each week and said "if they want to put it at least 10,000 human beings 
up again, I will not take it will die of starvation; consider down." the consequences of continued Rick Shock, president of growth." was torn down as zero-population growth, said a Ferro was removing other mater­poster will be put up today and 
ial from the bulletin boards. a statemen l released by the 
Observer Publisher and SL(' representa live Guy DcSapio commented late Wednesday evening, "I think the decision 
(continued  on  page  7)  
settled  
He  handed  the  poster  to  a  
zero  population  member and  a  

discussion began between Ferro and the student about the theological implications of the poster. 

R 
I 
c 
M 
OLINDA 
E R


VEANN 
I 
c 

chapter called Ferro's action a "blatant act of censorship." 
Father MacCarragher, Vice­President for Student Affairs, has "ultimate" authority over the subject matter on the 1-lud­
\ 


( 

ANIOSTAL QUEEN CONTEST 
send photos t_o: 414 Badin Hall 
--~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

PRIVATE, IF You WANl To TALK 

10 \VASHrNGTON1 DlAL 1 AND AREA CODE 202 

Get outta town without leaving campus. Dial Direct. The lowest long distance rates are in effect every school night and all day Saturdays. 
@Indiana Bell 
Use your long distance calling number. Save time. Dial your own calls. 
PAGE 4 FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 1970
TIIB OBSEilfiM 




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. De SAPlO, Publisher

DAVID C. BACH, Editor 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

It's unfortunate 

Saint Mary's seniors will soon tuck their diplomas under one arm, 
the blissful memories of "the best years of their lives" under the 
other and depart their womb with a view. . 
There is nothing left to say but "Ah, yes, it is unfortunate," 1f you have even that much enthusiasm. Most of us don't. Most of us simply want out. The majority of the underclassmen would say we've grown selfish in our old age. We would agree. . 
It is unfortunate that all our "revolutionary" plans tor change were stunted somewhere along the line. Unfortunate that we may not have Alma Mater in 5 years. Unfortunate that for some reason a breach exists between the administration, the faculty, and the students. Unfortunate that no one seems to be able to find the formula for honest communication and understanding. 
But fortune had nothing to do with the problem. The students have made SMC the sterile melting-pot that it is. They cannot seem to understand that the school's problems will never be solved by optimistic small-time endeavors, that they must begin to use their calculating minds. 
St. Mary's students have become infamous for deploying massive amounts of energy constructing toothpick castles. Student Government jaunts off each year armed with more or less idealistic plans in search of "true Christian community." They have a most elaborate governmental structure to decide the major issues of student life-the number of open houses to be held each month, the amount of punishment to be levied against a first offender with 5 late minutes, etc. 
Those students who are earnestly and logically working for change must, in the last analysis, be counted as either the most courageous or the most foolish of individuals; they are bucking the system of the mindless herd and those "looking out for the good of the college," a system to which change, either drastic or "evolutionary", is destruction. 
The very presence of dissenters so threatens a large block of St. Mary's that the system is hard-pressed to even admit the existence of a hostile faction. 
Yet, (underclassmen note) the mindless herd is the most potentially dangerous to the college. They operate under no rules of logic and are subject to spurts of interest and support which will never fail to disappoint you. 
We seniors have had our share of the disillusionment the school hands out. We no longer care to care. It is difficult to even wish you will. 
Letters to the Editor 
so apathetic or disillusioned that pharisees who have self­

Black aid 
you accept any new develop­righteously castigated their ment, whether beneficial or fathers for erecting an unjustEditor: establishment which allows star­

detrimental to the welfare of the

Having read the article on ving, rat-bitten children to die in 
students, with a kind of Stoic

minority students rece1vmg polluted slums while their lucky
resignation to the powers that 

money I think that a more adult cousins kill in Viet Nam.
be. The degree to which our life

appropriate heading would have The "New System" genera­
at Notre Dame becomes taut

been "black students get tion tells us all this only in the
a;;ceptance might be clearly

money". Just as the civil rights next sweet breath to relate of
demonstrated by the unques­

movement today has shifted to a their Easter safari to Florida for
tioning response of the student

movement for blacks so has fun and games.
body to that fresh mound on the

Notre Dame's minority recruit­A dollar will resurrect a
main quad that bears a marked

ment. I doubt that Bro. Kier­month's bowl of rice for a Viet
resemblance to a grave. Have we

nan's figures (if he has any) for Nam child. (There's more ways
all become such Demers,

other minority groups amount to kill than one.) $10.00 will put
whether in our liberalism or

to much. 
shoes on a South Bend urchin. A 
conservatism, that actions taken

Notre Dame's lack of balance 
Notre Dame concerted action in minority recruitment is un­
from above never provokes any could hand a scholarship (orjustifiable. How can it explain suspicion on the students' part'/ three!) to a hopeless lad. 

the fact that "at least 90% of 
With that grave like mound But human development is minority students applying for 

blatantly confronting me, I am made of stern stuff, and, of 

aid arc black students? There 
wondering: Who did they bury course, the old pharisees know must be an expansion of minor­on the main quad? I don't know 

about you, but I have not seen a all this. 

ity recruitment . . . now. The frieud of mine for three days. Over Forty,other minorities must not be Are you missing a roommate? Rev. John T. Hiltz forgotten. Perhaps we have been Compliant and complicit. Dig it! Brownson Hall less demanding but will change Proddingly yours,that if necessary. 
John Pepple 
Business Manager: Bruce Rieck

Juan M. Nieto P.S. Thanks for 
Ad. Mgr.: Bruce Barker

the figures anyway. Pharisees 
Executive Editor: Dave Stauffer Campus Editor: Glen Corso 
Editor:


Stoic resignation 
News Editor: Steve Hoffman
Perhaps you might wish to 
SMC News Editor:' Jeanne

Editor: print this in your Letters to the 
Sweeney

Many curious and unexplain­Editor or fill in some cartoon 
Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, 

able things happen at Notre space! 
Ann Conway 
Sports Editor: Terry Shields

Dame and by the time you are a I'm skk and want to vomit-
junior you have either become vomit over a new generation of 

A Forum ;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:= 

Campus Opinion 
Edited by Glen Corso 
The j(Jl/owing was a letter-that was submitted in rebuttal to the article I wrote earlier in the week concerning bussing. The author of the rebuttal is Dennis M. Powers from Fisher Hall. 
Brown v. JJoard oj Hducation, 347 U.S. 483 ( 1954 ), struck down school segregation where required, enforced, or encouraged by operation or under color of law. Affected districts were, in the future, to maintain only unitary systems. Today, however, the time for "all deliberate speed" has run out. So-called "freedom of choice" is acceptable if, and only if, it does in fact terminate racial dualism. Last October, the Court ordered it immediate and without further delay. So much is settled law. 
What the Court has not yet passed on, however, is de facto segregation by race in the public schools-segregation as a result of residential housing patterns, rather than legal dictate. Does this pattern display the same unconstitutional facets as were found in its de "jure cousin? That is the fundamental question. For if it does 
mere  would  seem  to  be  an  equivalent, coextensive obligation to  
eradicate it al so.  
In  Brown,  the  core  constitutional  finding  was  that  racial  

segregation inculcated inerradicablc inferiority wmplexes in the black children discriminated against. Dual schools are inherently unequal, therefore, and cannot be made equal. 347 U.S. 483, 493-95. That was the issue there. Equality in physical plants, educational materials, and teaching staffs are not litigated. Indeed, the lower courts in two of the three cases consolidated for decision 
in Brown explicitly found the dual systems substantially even in those aspects. Brown v. Board of Hducation, 98 F.Supp. 797 (D.Kan. 1951); Briggs v. Hlliott, Civ. No. 2657 (E.D.S.C. 1952). Yet they still failed to pass constitutional muster. The Court rested its decision squarely on the psychic damage to the students involved. That was its ccn tral premise. 
This critical mess, to borrow a term from nuclear physics, is equally present in the de facto circumstance. Discrimination's effect ori the child, I submit, and not its source, is the crux of the matter. When neighborhood patterns produce a school system segregated by race, such systems would seem to incur the interdict of the Constitution fully as much as those de jure. State inaction, permitting the status quo to continue, constitutes sufficient nexus with the state to invoke the XIV Amendment rationale of Brown. It may be that the effect is greater when enforced by positive law, 347 
U.S. 483, 494. Discrimination's unconstitutional aspects, however, are present nonetheless. If bussing is the only way to overcome the neighborhood obstacle, then that is the means that must be used. De facto segregation, by whatever means necessary, must erid. And as 
soon as possible. 

Position papers and clanjications of points specifically for this column should be addressed to 
Campus Hdilor 
The Observer Box I I, Notre Dame 

These presentations should be no longer than 3 typewritten double-spaced pages. 
Features Editor: T.C. Treanor 
The opinions expressed in the

Photography Editor: Mike Mur· 
editorials, news analyses, and
phy 
columns of THE OBSERVER are 

solely those of the authors and 

editors of THE OBSERVER and 
rison 
do not necessarily reflect the 

views of St. Mary's College, the 

University of Notre Dame, their 
Night Controller: Joey FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 1970 

PAGE 5

THB O&rl.lliiBl 


Wolfe passes the Acid Test 
W:;;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::~:::::~:::::::~:~:~=~=~::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;: 

by Tom Ehrbar 
Who is Tom Wolfe Who ... is ... Tom 
... Wolfe 
Who is 
Tom 
Wolfe 
? 

So here's this stud, Tom Wolfe, hip and beautiful, only this time he's not tripping it out West, baby, with a bus-load of plugged-in, flaked-out super-freaks; or frugging and hugging and flipping like crazy at a Truman Capote mod-bash; or playing fey-bemused reporter with America's new and grotesque life styles and art forms. 
Uh uh. 
This time he's here at Notre Dame. 
But exactly, as Wolfe himself might say. It's like this. The Sophomore Literary ·w0ple, bless their worthy souls, wanted 
tone down the cool-pop-charisma stuff this go around. Just so. No preem spotlights or vendors, no outlandish p.r., none of the crowned kings of literati 
USA. 
lnstead-hlack authors their fury· pot~ts, their obscurity-til~ suffering art~ 1sts, the true artists. Plus one stud. The 
darling of Esquire and New York magazines, the swo·oned-over, mooned­owr, even cult-forming hero of the "New Journalism," the original groove, the perfect gas, Tom Wolfe. Who is he? 
Well he writes books with titles full of 
tricks and wit, no metonomy here, titles 
like The Electric Kooi-Aid Acid Test, and 
The Pump /louse Gang, and The Kandy­
K o/ored Tangerine-Flake Streamline 
Bahy. You read the hooks to find out 
what the hell the titles arc all about, at 
leasl that's why I had-this was two 
months ago. 



The Last of Zap 

by T.C.Treanor 
J.ast issue, the Observer reviewed, among other things, R. Crumb's -and Zap~s position on race. Zap occupies an ambiguous position-Crumh patronizes, .uereotypes, and even taunts the black man in some of his works ("Buy Nigger Lips" proclaims one ad} yet makes a h/ack street gang the hero of his story 
W.l!!temnn. Today the Observer examines 
the reasons for this amhiguity. 
The real reason Crumb fails to clarify his attitude towards the black man -to clear up his own thinking -is, one suspects, that he just doesn't care -one this or any other issue. Perhaps the most specific articulation of his own views occurs not in Zap hut in another one-time comic, called: !'lunge into the depths of IJHSI'AIR. Despair as a whole is not a pleasant hook but the featured story, entitled It :1· Really TOO BAD, is a classic in morbidity. 
"It's really too had," writes Crumb, " ..... things could have been so beautiful .. .. hut.. ... " Crumb comments on society. "It's not much fun, but it's efficient." 
"It's neurotic, is what it is. Oh well, .... .let's have a party." The scene dissolves to a room where all sorts of absurd 
So here it is Tuesday and I'm lying on my bed like a morgue-stiff, doing exactly nothing. And from down the hall the crushing, stentorian voice of TC Treanor rouses me from my introspection. TC is number one dude for Observer features and TC leans over me, grins like a pained-cat, and booms a wry song-and­dance about if I could scoop a piece on this Tom Wolfe clown who will be jetting and gassing it into South Bend tomorrow, that's Wednesday, I riod OK. 
Wolfe's plane is supposed to kiss runway at 12:33 pm. So at thirteen after the three of us; TC who is my chauffeur but as it turns out remembers, blissfully, that he never learned, baby baby, how to drive no car-machine; and Tim O'Meilia who is my cynic photog but who forgets to pack up a camera; and me; on our way already stupid-ass-late. 
Me at the wheel, shortcutting and grooving it like a dare-devil hot-rodder punk, and TC and Tim just sitting there sipping their eggnogs. Eggnogs, for Chrissakes. TC, we were all skipping lunches you see, TC grabbed us all eggnogs for the ride to the port. Just so. But I'm at the wheel like a loony and my eggnog rides beside me and anyway we come fey-close to no-gassing it th~re on Angela and I just squeeze into a Humble and a jerk with a catatonic puss pumps a dollar and we're off again. Flying through stop signs. 
Spins and squeals and sighs-it's 12:35 and I stick the car against a four-penny meter and the three of us stumble and crush inside the parabolic-arched St. Joe terminal. My nosed pressed to the ga,te window I'm gazing out on the airfield and saying, "We made it, he's not here yet." Tim turns me around and no more than three yards away is Mr. Stud himself. Nifty white suit; the shirtt blue pin-stripe; the tie, maroon, gushing out with an ascot to match; blue and grey diamonds made the so~.:ks. 
Tom Wolfe is not alone, by his side an enclave of Sophomore Literary Festival people, the conversation is polite. I want the stud for myself, how to whisk him away from those cardboards. We concoct a scheme, hurried and tacky, and break from the huddle. I am to approach Wolfe like an old war buddy and hand him my eggnog as token friendship. Tim, mean­while, will be gathering up the hero's luggage and crisply announcing, "Mr. 
~.:haracters from other comics dance to some forlorn music. 
"Little brother isn't quite as cute as you hoped he'd be, but.. .." Little brother is a little monster with eyes as big as basketballs and nothing else on his face. 
"Is there any hope for the lumpen proletariate?" and when· one sees the lumpen proletariat drawn; boiled pota­toes with noses and legs; one knows that there is no hope for them, whatever Mr. Crumb designs .. 
The pictur~s take on a grey hue; things are dark; groutesq ue figures warn "Thb ;_~ tht~ end," to quivering, equally gro~­tesque compatriots. A shadowed figure and grey, ugly, middleaged Mrs. Ruth Schwartz wonder is it's worth it to go on. Suddenly a bus rolls down what is obviously a heavily industrialized street. "Here comes the bus'" shouts Crumb warningly, and a character shrinks hack in terror. "There is no excape, "Crumb cries disparigingly, and in the next scene a rock 
cries with him. Crumb traces the attitudinal develop-

Wolfe, please follow me to the car." TC will throw his hod in the path of any pursuers. With split-second impeccable timing the team moves out-only to be conked by the awful revelation; Wolfe, the Sophomore Literary Festival people, everyone, gone. 
I chug my eggnog and it's back to N.D.; Wolfe, TC screams like a marine drill sergeant, is due at WN DU for a I: 00 video tape interview. We can snag him there. But exactly. How though to get past the imbecile guard at the circle 
gatehouse, we have one minute till cameras start lunging and shooting like mad. Inspiration baby baby, TC assumes an erudite pose; I roll down the widow and there I am blabbering at this wide-eyed goon-cop telling him that TC is Paul Wilte. Welsh poet laureate from Pittsburg Pa. and that he has to be over at WNDU at I :00 for a TV show. Right on, says the cop. Right on, we blow into the station's production studio and Tom Wolfe is sitting up there besides some bud with her hair in a "beehive" bouffant and heavy, red glare lights are bouncing off the walls, and everyone is saying "shhhh" and Wolfe is talking away nice and easy to this chic bud. Talking about the "New Journalism" and about Tom Wolfe's books and about Tom Wolfe. And I ask the Sophomore Literary Festival people who are still hanging around like bodyguards or something if I can talk to this Tom Wolfe. They are cool profession­als and they tell me, oh so smartly "There will be a press conference at 3:30 in the lobby of Morris Inn. You may speak to Mr. Wolfe then." 
So it's 3:30 and Tim finally has his camera and the two of us are playing it cozy over at the Morris Inn. Tim remarks, not pleasantly, on two 1-am-hip-and-beau­tiful-inside-and-1-dress-to-show-i t types wandering about the lobby and pretend­ing they.'re really with the new poetry. 
Tim  smirks  and  says  "What  are  those  
bums  doing  here."  Those  bums,  so  it  
goes,  were  bona-fide  American  avant  

guarde poets invited by the Sophomore Literary Festival. But exactly. 
And Tom Wolfe, immaculate and pristine, is treking around like a god outside, rolling his hips into the post office, rolling out, taking his God-damned time, finally, finally arriving at the Morris lobby where, oh the sweet mystery there is no press conference at all a~d no 
lumpen proletariat, and one Knows his answer to that is no. Is the answer communism? A buxom lass slugs through the rice paddies before the blackened sky, and one knows that that isn't his answer. Is the answer anarchy? Crumb shows a man pondering whether eating is part of the system, and one knows that he calls not for anarchy. 
What is the answer'! 
ment of man; from youthful optimism to 4 PM today m the OBSERVER office aging cynicism to elderly bitterness. Is the All interested parties welcome! answer capitalism? Crumb shows a slick . 
mustashioed salesman seducing the Wnte on with FEATURES! 
"The best thing anyone has come up with," Crumb writes, "is to sit around 
and do nothing." His last panel shows a n.ak.ed, horribly malformed troglodyte, s1ttmg on the grass with an empty 
thought balloon. 

There is no escape' And indeed there is none; none from Zap, none from Crumb, nor from the grinding reality which he has insidiously inculcated in comic book 
lore. 

Features Meet' 1 . mg. 
excuses and no nothing. Tom Wolfe, alone now, an ordinary mortal now, is shuft1ing for the elevator and I intercept 

him.  "Can  I just kind of talk  with you  
Mr.  Wolfe,  maybe  in  a  bar  or  some  
place," my voice straining.  

Well Mr. Wolfe has his income tax form and millions of dollars to report. 
Oh yes, the visit to the post office. Oh yes, April I 5. Deadline. And Mr. Wolfe has an oh-so-tight schedule knotting up his stud-time. And Mr. Wolfe with this bemused expression and eyes like tin reflectors says to me curt and punchy, "Give me a call about II :00 tomorrow morning" and Mr. Wolfe vanishes like a shy genie. 
So now the clock in my room says 
II :00 and it's Thursday am and I'm 
dialing the Morris Inn. No Tom Wolfe after ten anxious rinnnnngs. Oh baby baby, don't tell me. It's 11:30 and I'm suspicious and bemuddled and dialing the Morris Inn again. And Tom Wolfe, his 
voice tired and abrupt, tells me he'll be down in the lobby tossiag his hip words to some yes-sir-I-see reporter and that I can drop in if the mood hits me. 
The mood never hit me, missed by .a light-year or so. I wanted to rap with Tom Wolfe, friendly baby, not, to flip sincere wrinkles into my forehead and play big time intelligencia question-and­answer games with him. I forgot Tom Wolfe, just so, and who-cared it over to the pay cafeteria for an eggnog. 
Call me a stud, too. 
But exactly. 
BADIN VINTAGE CINEMA 10 HOW GRAND OPENING 
Mountgomery and Castellanos Famous Badin Vintage Cinema, a movil~house that is scheduled to specialize in silent films, will stage its grand opening tonight in what used to be the Lower Level of Badin Hall. 

Charlie Chaplin's short masterpiece, The Tramp will head the list of films scheduled to be shown at the grand opening. Also to be shown will be: Laurel and Hardy in the silent classic The Detectives, William S. Hart in Mr. Silent Haskins, the Keystone Kops in The Desperate Scoundrel, and G.M. Anderson in Bronco Billy and the Greaser. 
Three showings-7:30, 9:30 and 11:30-are scheduled for the fifty-seat theatre for both Friday and Saturday. Film arrangers Pat Mountgomery and Stave Castellano are presently dickering for the appearance of several old film stars, including the Marx brothers and the swashbuckling Douglas Fairbanks. 
Admission will be fifty cents per customer. 
The work of SMC faculty member Monte Floyd (below) will he the subject of a musical presentation at 8:00 PM, Mondily, April 20, 11t the Little The11ter. 

FRIDAY, APRIL17, 1970

PAGE 6 
TilE OBSERJIEit 


NSA announces discounts 
low rates set on books 
Newly-appointed NSA Co­ordinator Steve Novak an­nounced yesterday that Notre Dame, along with 24 other campuses across the country, is participating in the NSA 's Social Acticm Books Experimental Pro­gram. The program, which in­volves sales of books at reduced prices to students at NSA member schools, kicks off this month with 19 offerings, 12 of 
them concerning the Environ­mental Crisis. 
Novak indicated that he was contacted in early March con­cerning the program. At that time he was serving as assistant to Mike Shaugnessy, who has recently assumed leadership of the Free University. He was told then that the Book program would be inaugurated in April and informed of the experi­mental nature of the program. 
"Social Action Books is some­thing new that NSA is trying," he said, " and it is being 
-conducted on an experimental basis until the end of this year. If the response proves to be large enough, the program will be expanded to more schools next year, and will operate from September onward. I think it is 
IP-~~=------~~!!::::R 
Even Po1ynesian 
dancing at America 
this weekend!!! 
very important that we get a good response to these early offerings, since the future of the program is based on these results." 
The selection pamphlet was distributed in the residence halls on Monday and Tuesday. To order books, students are re­quested to bring the order form included on the pamphlet .to either: the Student Government Office or the Cabinet office. 
Novak indicated that delivery of the books was expected within a week. 
"I call New York every three days, and they send me out the books that have been ordered up to that time," Novak said. "This guarantees delivery within a period of no more than eight days from the date they are ordered." 
Commenting on the impor­tance of the program, Novak 

ND Prof. chosen 
Dr. Ronald J. Downey, asso­ciate professor of microbiology at Notre Dame and presently on leave to the department of genetics at Cambridge University 
in England, has been elected a Visiting Fellow of Clare Hall. 
Clare Hall is the graduate arm of Clare College, founded in 1326. Downey will return to 
Notre Dame in the fall. 


said: "I think it is vital that we get a good response to this program, not only because of the effects of it on the book program, but also because of the way in which we will evaluate it ourselves. Students gripe a good deal about the prices at the book store, and this is the first real positive step that has been taken to undersell them. If students don't show interest in this program, it will force us to 
rethink any ideas we might have of establishing any sort of discount store on campus. In a sense, this is the first step in the establishment of such a discount service, and if this proves unsec­cessful, it could severely hamper development of this type of service, on the part of Student Government, in the future." 

McGrath submits drug policy 

GIRLS 

The Observer 
Needs SMC Newswriters 
CONTACT: Jeanne Sweeney 
SMC News Editor Or Call The Observer Box 567 Phone-5355 
EUROPE $234 
ROUND TRIP JET 
.June 24. /f.J70 to Aug. 18, 1970 011ly ten seats left lsr cvme, J.tt ser1•e ba.vis 

University Charter's 6th Annual Charter Flight Series 
Sponsored lly Notre Dame, St. Marys's -Slu*nts llternatlonal 
Intra• European student charter flight bookinta NSA international 1.0. cards 
Eurail and Britrail passes 
Auto purchases, rentals and l•aaea 
Connecting around and air transportMion 
Traveler's Checks 
by Mary Kay Davy 
On April 13, Father John McGrath submitted a statement of policy concerning the use of drugs on the St. Mary's College campus to the Student Affairs Committee. The Committee is now considering the policy be­fore it is presented to the Student Affairs Council for final approval. 
The statement is composed of six clauses, the first of which states: "The use, possession or transfer of drugs forbidden by Federal· and state statutes will not be tolerated by Saint Mary's College. The violation of such statutes is held to be a serious violation of disciplinary regula­tions of Saint Mary's College." 
The second clause of the 
policy outlined the fundamental 
concern and responsibility of the 
College as being "constructive 
rehabilitation", including a pro­
gram of education and medical 
consultation. 
"A student committing a 
violation as described above will 
continue a member in good 
standing subject to due process 
of the judicial procedure," 
stated the fifth clause. 
The final clause states "cam­
pus administration will cooper­
ate with law enforcement agen­
cies." 
Various questions are being 
considered by the Student Af­fairs Committe, composed of drugs is also being considered. administration, faculty anJ stu­Such a program would be for dents. Will a student found using the benefit of all as opposed to drugs off campus be prosecuted one aimed at rehabilitation for by civil authorities and/or SMC? violators. Are there to be distinctions On April 20th K. T. Cannon, between types of drugs, users a graduate of SMC, Class of '69, and pushers, possession and will address the Student Affairs usage? Committee and the subject of 

The possibility of an educa-. drugs in hopes of clarifying some tiona! program on the nature of 
of the above questions. 

ND g1ves land to Retarded 
A wooded plot of land be­longing to the University of Notre Dame will become a playground for the mentally retarded children of Logan Cen­ter this spring, the Rev. Jerome 
J. Wilson, C.S.C., vice president of business affairs, has announ­ced. 
Situated across Eddy St. from Logan Center, the uncleared land measures 600 ft. by 200 ft. and is presently unused. Dr. Richard Kurtz, associate profess­or of sociology, is co-chairman of the Council for the Retarded of St. Joseph County, which was 
instrumental in convincing the University to allow Logan Cen­ter to use the land as a park. The Council has suggested that the wooded area be left in its natural state, with only such changes made as safety might 
require. Patrick Horsbrugh, visit­ing professor of agriculture, has volunteered to suggest land-use patterns, designed pathways and describe what vegetation should be cleared. 
Horsbrugh hopes the natural park will provide an opportunity for the retarded children, who of necessity live restricted lives, to experience the variety of tex­tures, colors, smells and sensa­tions associated with a wooded glade. He has suggested that three natural areas could be identified within the park-one a level area appropriate for a short walk, the second a clear hollow where groups could play and the third a small ridge for longer hikes. 
Mixer announced 

Educational tours 
Student priced hotel bookines 
A London office to serve you 
Captain Electric is back
A wide variety of flights to choo•e (rom 
non· stop Jet open bar and complete meals Detroit departures from near-by ,\fdro .4irport 
St. Mary's Coffeehouse 
S50 dep6sit, final payment in March cancellation privileges until day of departure cnmrlete range of travel sen•ices 
Sunday night 
for further information contact: Jim Pohl Student Notre Dame Services 
9:00-12:00 $1.00 
283·7757 
Liberate America 
with

Need a U-Haul in June? 
Carol lacey 

. 
laura Nietsche
Don't leave campus for serv1ce. 
Ellen Zuicker 
Saturday night, the Class of '72 N D-SMC is sponsoring a mixer at LaFortune Center. This mixer is primarily for freshmen and sophomores, but is open to the entire student body. 
Approximately 200 girls from other schools will be visiting the campus. These girls wifl attend the Ice Capades in the after­noon, and later eat dinner in one of the dining halls. 
The "Circuit" will play for the mixer which is from 9-12. Admittance to-the mixer will be limited to a one-to-one ratio, on first come first served basis. 

Ron's Marathon Service, an authorized U-Haul dealer, has appointed Ted Price as its campus sales representative. Call Ted at 283-8408 or 
OBSERVER NEWS MEETING
233-0325 or stop in at 305 Pangborn. He'll take care of all the arrangements for your truck or trailer and accessories. Don't chase all over South Bend for your end-of-year moving needs. Call now for guaranteed ON CAMPUS service. 
4:45 this afternoon 
U-Haul: Better cause we want to be 
FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 1970 
7118 OIJSERUER. 
PAGE 1 

Opinions aired on parietal statement 
(contin11ed from page 3) 
was fair to accomodate for the need for the extension of visita­tion hour privileges for women. All hough the decision isn't con­sistent with the original SLC proposal, the student body should accept it, since it is a fair solution." 
When contacted, Junior Stay­Senator Tom Thrasher said, "I was pleasantly surprised by the continuing faith of the Board of Trustees in the whole parietal hours experiment as well as their willingness not only to carry on with the present situation, but their breaking new ground by radically extending parietal hours. The state of the Hall Life Board and its revised role out­lines in the trustees' report arc promising." 
"I hope the SLC and students will accept the trustees' report and I share the trustees' hope that the experiment will work out this year." 
Flanner Hall Rector, Rev. Maurice Amen, having read the new proposal of the trustees, achieve what I hoped it to commented, "I am disappointed achieve." in the statement issued by the "The trustees are setting up Board of Trustees. It is a fair rules for those who break them proposal with workable restric­(b<_!dmen) not those who follow tions and it more adequately fits them (good men). The good men the needs of the students. I wish want amd realize the neeJ for 
the Board of Trustees had taken the opportunity to say some­thing about where we'II go in the future, it would have given a different tone to the document." 
"I don't like the composition of the new Hall Life Board because I see no value in the tri-partite set-up. The II LB should have got ten some discre­tionary power to allow it more flexibility to the situations that can arise," he went on to say. 
Commenting on the new 

proposals, Jol.n Houck, Profes­Tom Thruher sor of Management, said, "The hall community. The trustees are trustees aren't mossbacks. Their setting up a tight rope which the 
statement will be read as just bad men know is the end of the allowing more hours, without line, but will they stop there. the process of community The total result is not a striving 
formation laking place. This new for community and learning," he stand is a proclamation by added: generous men and it won't Commenting on the new Hall 

Fr. Cormier to celebrate Mass 
Newly ordained Rev. Rog'!r J. Cormier, C.S.C., a cha,•lain at St. Mary's will cekhrate a spedal Mass of Thank~:giving with St. Mary's students and staff Sun­day at four o\;lo<:k in the Church of Our L.tdy of Loretto. The Mass will be followed by a dinner and brief program in the dining hall. 
Priests invited to concelebrate with Father Cormier arc Msgr. John McGrath, SMC president; Rev. Richard Downs, C.S.C., assistant to Monsignor McGrath; Rev. Glenn Boarman, C.S.C., Rev John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Rev. Roman Ladewski,C.S.C., and Rev. Walter Higgins, C.S.C., all of the SMC campus ministry team; Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C., Father Cormier's pastoral super­visor: Rev. Raymond Runde at St. Mary's educatton depart­ment; Rev. William Toohey, 
C.S.C.. of Fatima Retreat House; and Rev. Thomas Otldo, C.S.C., former assistant to the chaplain at SMC. 
Music for the Mass and dinner will be led by the Moreau Combo. Student· Government and Student Services Organiza­tion leaders will assist at the liturgy. 
Father Cormier has served St. Mary's students since September 
Corrections 
The Ohserl'er reported yester­day in its story on the meeting of the Constitutional Revision Committee that Tom Mignanelli stated that "there was not a bill in the Senate to provide money to 
and 
April17 & 18 7:00 & 9:30 Washington Hall 
of 1968. During the 1968-69 
standing Contributor to Student school year he served as an 
Life. assistant to the chaplain in an Holding an A.B. degree in 
experimental program in the philosophy from Stonehill Col­campus ministry. Currently he is 
lege and an M.Th. from the doing his pastoral internship University of Notre DHme, year at St. Mary's. He ha~; been 
Father Cormier has done super­counseling students, advising the vised fieldwork in the parochial Community Relations Commis­ministry and in religious educa­sion and ministering as a deacon tion. Last summer he participa­at various campus liturgies. ted in a program of clinical 
Earlier this year he preached at pastoral education at Yale-New the Founders' Day Mass and at Haven Medical Center. the closing Anniversary Mass and This Sunday's 4: 15 Regina was nominated as an Out-Hall Mass has been cancelled. 
Frosh promenade Saturday 
SMC Freshmen will dance amitl "Lollipops and Roses" at their prom this Saturday evening 
from  9-2  a.m.  in  Regina Hall's  
lounges.  
Mary  Claire  Theisen,  Fresh­ 

man Class social committee chairman, is acting as co-ordina­tor for the spring dance. 
Laura Bayer and Flora Dause in planning decorations used a spring theme complete with two Joan Walsh Anglund figures, swings, and a white paper picket fence covered with miniature paper roses. Lollipop trees, a wishing well, waterfall, carousel, and topiary trees, will also be part of the decor. 
Mary Ambrise contracted two different groups. "Magnificient Seven," winners of the Bud­weiser Regional jazz contest, and "Morning-glory Brigade" to play at the dance. 
Friday &Saturday $1.00 
Jane McCormick planned the menu for a midnight brunch to be served in Regina's auditor­ium. Angie Rocca co-ordinated favors. 
"Freshmen going to the prom will have no hours on Saturday 
· evening," announced Lolo Stan­kus, class president. "But fresh­men who aren't going to the prom and want no hours, will have to ask their hall director for permission." 
She also cautioned girls to make sure that their dates come to Regina's front door WITH BIDS. This is the only way that they will be admitted to the dance. No other doors will be open. Invitations will not be acceptable i11stead of bids. 
"The decorations are fantas­tic," commented Mary Claire. "Laura Bayer is doing an admir­able job." 

Life Board, Prof. Houck said, "I'd rather see three faculty couples on the board than three faculty members. This could aid in the understanding of the problems. Also, I feel that some of the student members of the board should be girls; after all 
they  are  the  ones  who  will  be  
doing the visiting."  
In  conclusion Prof.  Houck  

stated that whatever could help the growing of a community feeling is good. 
Morrissey Hall President John Barkett expressed general dis­satisfaction with the statement issued by the Board of Trustees. 
"The trustees missed the boat just by looking at the problems of parietal hours and drinks. They should look at hall life as a whole picture." 
"There was very little men­tion of the rector in the report. The rector is the focal point in the continuity of leadership ·in the hall and he plays an important factor of hall life. It is the rector along with the hall government which will deter­mine whether or not the hall will progress," he added. 
"A decision making can not legislate fairly distance on matters that students. There are more impor­tant ways to look at They should go into the halls themselves and sec problems on the hall levels. They should listen to the students' views before rules are made, if they themselves don't make them " Barkett said. ' 
"The creation of the new Hall Life Board was a slap in the face to the SLC. It sc.ems to infringe on the major responsibilities of the SLC. I question whether the HLB will have a power to change a hall's staff in order to 'provide the best hall environment con­sistent with good order."' 
River Park Featuring GIG YOUNG Best Supporting Actor 
FOR 9At,
~WARDS :.4bl'4f; 
~·
* 
Fox's Extends SPECIAL PRICES 
to 
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
·:~~ 

mOlt Important thing In buying a diamond ___.,.,...-: Is knowledge. It takes an expert to know the fine .Points of cut, color and quellty••. and whet gives 8 diamond Its value. Thare'i only -way to bby 8 diamond..• and that il by coming to 8 jeweler you can trust. 
DIAMONDS $50 TO $5,000 OPEN A CONVENIENT 
ETACCOUN·T~ji--~~~~~~ 


THE OBSERVER NEEDS 
A SECRETARY 
Call 7471 , 6896 or Write : THE OBSERVER c/o Business Manager Box 11 
... 

...---~-------------­
FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 1970
7118 OBSERVER.

PAGE 8 
Homesick Irish· suffer twin losses 

by Jim Donaldson road this week, 3-2 at Michigan NO diamond. walks in the opening stanza, it ble plated the first NO run and should the added
Observer Sportswriter on Tuesday and 7-5 at Detriot Pitchers Ron Schmitz and be said that he had not Irish another solo 
started a game sin~.:e the Easter tally in the fourth on a walk, aIt looks like the Irish baseball U. Wednesday, the club's record Rick Eich hurled sixteen innings break trip to Florida and single by Joe Keenan and a
team is homesick. After drop-is a dismal 1-9. All ten games of shutout ball between them in once he got the feel of the mound double by Horan. Phil Krill'sping two more games on the have been played away from the the two games but Schmitz pitched hitless ball for the final long triple in the fifth inning
surrendered three ninth inningsTerry 5hieIds ;:::~=·~:;;::~;~:-:::::,.:::~:::;;::·_;;:::::::::::::·:::::::::·:::::::::::::::;::;::::::::::·::::: runs to absorb a heart-bleaking eight innings of the game. Eich pushed two more runs horne and owns the only Irish pit~.:hing win dosed the gap to 7-5 but the
loss against Michigan while Ei~.:h 

of the season, an 8-1 triumph Irish couldn't swre again until
was bombed for seven runs in 

over Colgate while the team was the ninth inning when they came
the first inning against Detriot 

in Florida. up short, not~.:hing just one run.
The Irish Eye 
and, although he pitched hitless 

The Irish tried gamely to It came on singles by Denny
ball for the next eight innings, 

~.:orne back in the later innings Patrylo, pinch hitter Bob Roem­
the NO batters couldn't over­but didn't get enough firepower er and Rob Votier. Votier,
come that first inning Titan to bounce all the way back. A Keenan, and Horan each rapped
outburst.

Each year at the end of each high school basketball season there is third inning single by Chu~.:k a pair of hits in the game for the
The Irish appeared to be well 

an all-star game played in Pittsburgh's Civic Arena. This year was the Horan and Ni~.:k Scarpelli's dou-Irish.
on their way to victory in the

sixth game of this sort to be held. The school-boy talent displayed 
MiChigan game after Rich Lucke 

may possibly have been the best that the Dapper Dan Roundball 
and Joe Keenan singled in a run ------....~ Classic (Dapper Dan is a sports minded charitable organization in the 
apiece to break up a s~.:oreless

Steel City) has produced. 
battle in the top of the eighth

This is quite a statement. If you're not familiar with this game it 
inning. Rob Votier opened that

might interest you to know that over half of the participants go on 
frame by rapping a single. Nick 

to star in major college basketball. 
Scarpelli followed Votier and hit

The feature event of the evening is a game pitting the 
a grounder back to the pitcher

Pennsylvania State All-Stars against the best from the "other 
but when the Michigan hurler

forty-nine." Some former greats of the U.S. team are Dean 
threw the ball into center field

Memminger (Marquette), Howard Porter (Villanova), Bob Whitmore 
the Irish had runners on second

(Notre Dame), Jim McDaniel (Western Kentucky), Calvin Murphy 
and third. Lucke's single drove

(Niagra), Lanny Taylor (Georgia's leading scorer this season) and 
home Scarpelli and Keenan's

Rich Yunkus (Georgia Tech's big gun), to name a few. 
two out safety plated the second

Although it may seem like a mismatch the Pa. boys have produced a number of standouts also. Sim Hill (one of the top five scorers in run. 
Michigan was retired in the

the nation in '68-'69), Norm Vanlier (now with the Cincinnati 
eighth and the Irish went down

Royals), Ken Durrett (LaSalle's leading rebounder and scorer), Dick 
without scoring in their half of

DeVenzio (Duke's playmaker), and Dennis Wuycik (a starter as a 
the ninth but the Wolverines

sophomore for North Carolina), are all previous performers. 
won the game in their last

The U.S. team leads in the series four games to two but nearly 
chance at the plate on a two-run

each game has been an awesome display of basketball skills. 
double by Mike Rafferty and a

As was mentioned before this season's crop of hoopsters may be 
squeeze play that scored the

the best to date. It may not be just by coincidence that Notre Dame 
winning run. The Irish throw to

coach Johnny Dee was conducting a clinic in the 'Burgh the 
the plate was far too late on Dan

weekend that this contest was played. (This department is hopeful 
Fife's fine bunt and what looked

of following up this column with a rep.ort of how coach Dee made 
like NO's second victory instead

out with the prospects that he met that weekend. This will not 
be~.:ame their eighth loss. 

appear for a few weeks, when all signings are definite.) 
At Detriot the Irish apparent­

Although many of the players have signed letters of intent for 
ly had not re~.:overed from the . ­
various colleges, some of the better ones are still open prey for ·~ 
"-·-:,-·--c..-­
shock of having a win wrenched

college recruiters. Th~ leading figure among these is 6' I I" Tom 
from their hands the previous

McMillan of Mansfield, Pa. Although the highest scorer in 
day and fell behind 7-0 after an

Pennsylvania history (he "averaged" 47 points per game and shot an Rich Lucke will try to bring the Irish out of their team slump this
inning of play. In all fairness to

unheard of 75% from the field for the season) he has yet to afternoon when ND meets Western Michigan at Kalamazoo.
Rick Eich, the lefty freshman 

announce the college of his choice as we go to press. Word is Tomorrow Notre Dame will play its first horne game against the
who started the ~.:ontest and was

expected any day on his decisitm, probably an Atlantic Coast school. 
Broncos.
touched for five hits and three

Dayton made a prize choice when they grabbed 6'0" guard Don Smith from Dayton. He was tremendously quick and had a pro-style shot already. He should be a bonafide all-America by the end of his college career. . 
Roger Brown named MVP
This was a very good year for guards in the Roundhall. Besides Smith, Tom Kivisto from Aurora, Ill. was very impressive. At 6'2" 
Indiana Pacer Release-For playgrounds, Roger is poetry in on the I st team All-Pro teamhe was as smooth a ball-handler as you'll find and he has an accurate the se~.:ond time in three years motion. On more than one both of his two previous seasonsoutside shot. Although nothing was made definite he will probably All-Pro forward Roger Brown occasion, Roger has drawn a but with the credentials he 'ha~follow his brother and attend Kansas. 
has been chosen the Most long groan from the crowd for a compiled this year, it will beRonny Lyons from Meson County, Kentucky was the fanciest Valuable Pacer for the 1969-70 spectacular driving, twisting lay­extremely difficult to leaveplayer in the game and at 5'9" he possesses that all-important quick 
season. Brown also won the up. Roger Brown off the first unit of
release. The "Baron," Adolf Rupp has signed the little hustler to honor for the 1967-68 season.' Roger has been denied a spot the All-League team.
play for his home state. Although the guards are exceptionally good this year, one should 
The selection, determined by not slight the "big men" underneath. Dwight Jones of Houston 
a poll of press, radio, and 

MAJOR LEAGUES
(6'8") won the MVP award for the U.S. team and he proved television of the area, ~.:arne as no extremely agile and agressive under the hoop. He has not announced surprise, as Roger Brown is NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE where he will attend school next year, but look for Guy Lewis of 
currently enjoying the best sea­Houston to pay plenty of visits to his horne. son of his ~.:areer. East East Jones had plenty of help on the boards. This help included a 7'3" Roger is leading the Pacers in 
w L Pet. GB 
w L Pet. GB
giant from North Carolina named Tom Berelson. Although Berelson scoring with a 23.3, whi~.:h is 8th Pittsburgh 5 2 .714 
Baltimore 5 

was a little awkward, he had a good shooting touch and with a little best in the league and sewnd St. Louis 5 2 .714 2 .714 
Boston 5 3 .625 y,

work he could prove to be the best ball player of all these. best for a forward. Hfs percent­Chicago 4 3 .571 1 
Detriot 5 3 .625 y,Ed Searcy of New York City's Power Memorial (Lew Aldndor's age from the 2-pt., 3-pt. and free New York 3 4 .429 2 
Washington 4 3 .571 high school) did not have an exceptionally great game but his throw areas are all superb. His Philadelphia 3 5 .375 2Y:. New York 2 6 .250 3Y, defensive abilities are beyond reproach (he blocked one of .517 percentage from the 2-pt. Montreal 1 6 .143 4 Cleveland 2 6 .250 3Y:. McMillan's hook shots). He is extremely quick and, when he is range is 4th best in the league 
West

motivated, there aren't many better players in the country. He has and his .818 free throw shooting West signed a grant-in-aid for Duquesne University. is lOth best in the Ieag4e and 
*Cincinnati 8 3 .721 *Minnesota 4 0 1.000 One other "hostile" big man was Harold Sullinger of Camden, 2nd best among forwards. This Atlanta 5 5 .500 2Y:. 5 2 .714 y,
*California New Jersey. Sullinger watched McMillan for awhile and although season Roger has added a new San Fran. 5 5 .500 2Y:. *Oakland 3 4 .429 2Y:. McMillan scored 37 points (eight below his average) he was kept off weapon to his offense-the San Diego 5 5 .500 2Y:. Kansas City 3 4 .429 2Y:. the boards perfectly by Sullinger. Harold has not yet revealed his "home run" shot. To date, Houston 4 5 .444 3 *Chicago 3 5 .375 3 choice of schools. 
Roger is 34 of 112 for a .298 • Los Angeles 3 6 .333 4 Milwaukee 3 6 .333 3Y, percentage, which is the leading *-night game not included •-night game not included
Roland Grant from Philadelphia's South High is one man that 
percentage on the squad. Pittsburgh 7 New York 4 Kansas City 8 Milwaukee 6
Dee might not mind having at NO. Grant is 7' even and he is fairly 
Chicago 6 Philadelphia 5 Detriot 4 Cleveland 2
Besides being a great s~.:orer,

smooth for a man his size. He, too, needs work but the raw materials 
San Diego 5 Atlanta 4 (10 inn.) Boston 8 New York 5
Roger is also in the league's Top

are there in abundan~.:e. 
Cincinnati 10 Los Angeles 2 (7th inn) Washington 4 Baltimore 2 Bill "Moony" Knight of Braddock, Pa. has received offers from 10 in assists with 387 and is San Francisco 6 Houston € (6th inn') Chicago at Oakland, night105 different schools (none of which were from Notre Dame up averaging almost eight rebounds Minnesota at California, night per game.
until the Roundball Classic). Knight is a 6'6" forward who shoots 
like a guard and rebounds like a center. Although he was taking an 
A superb athlete, Roger is interest in N.C. State, he had not made a definite selection. 
.. 
respected by everyone through­These are only a few of the stars from the past high s~.:hool season. out the league. His ability to go It is pretty much agreed on that Notre Dame. has to have a good to the basket and pull up short recruiting year to survive in "big time" ball, and possibly Johnny and shoot the jumper, makes Dee might be able to lure some of these touted individuals to the him one of the most diffi~.:ult Dome. If not then it will be mighty hard to keep playing the men in all basketball to guard . schedule we have and finish with the same results. A graduate of the Brooklyn 










