

Nixon's initiative is cease fire 
Steve Flabin, Fred Giuggrida, Russ Stone, Pat Weber, Tom Thrasher explain procedure for upcoming 
Senate elections. 

Senate candidates meet 
WASHINGTON (UPI) President Nixon, seeking "the beginning of the end of war in this century,'' proposed an im mediate ceasefire throughout all of Indochina last night and a new international conference to negotiate peace in Vietnam Laos and Cambodia. 
In a IS-minute address to the nation that was broadcast world­wide the President also called for "the immediate and uncondi­tional release of all prisoners of war held by both sides'' to establish good faith and help break the negotiating logjam. 
Nixon reaffirmed the U.S. offer to withdraw all troops 
The Student Government l'kction committee held a mct't ing for all prospective Student Senate ~:andidates last night in the amphitheatre. 
Russ Stone Chairman of the Committee and stay senator from Howard Hall. read off the rules for the election and the can d idatcs picked up their petitions which arc due this Friday at 6 P.M. The election is to he held next Wednesday, October 14. 
Among the more notable campus figures seeking scats in 
McGovern here 
Senator (;eorgc Mc<;ov~:m (D-Soulh Dakota), a l%1l presi­dential candidate was scheduled to speak at st: Mary ·s O'Laugh­lin auditorium on Friday, Octo­ber 9, at 4:30 p.m. J-JowcVLT, McCovern's commitlments in Washington may interfere with his arrival in South f)end, and there is a possibility that the speech will have to he cancelled. 
He will appear as scheduled Jt the Notre Dame Faculty Club for a reception from 8-10 p.m. on Friday nitc. Tickets, available at the door will be $10 (singles) und $1 S (couples). 
Senator Mc(;overn will remain on campus Saturday, October 10, and, with Edmund A. Stc­ph<lll, Chairman of the Board of Trustees. will parti~:ipate in the flag raising ceremonies prior to the Notre Dame-Army football game. 
from South Vietnam as part of House, Nixon went on nation­in fighting throughout Indochina "We arc ready to negotiate an an overall settlement of the war wide radio and television to would give hope that "we had agreed timetable for complete but n:jecll:d what he termed the propose that ·'all armed forces reached the beginning of the end withdrawals as part of an overall Communists' goal of laking over throughout Indochina cease­of war in this century. We might settlement.'' the government in Saigon. firing their weapons and remain then be on the threshold of a The American position was 
The President's "major new in the positions they now hold." generation of peace." similarly unchanged in its sup­initiative for peace" will be The President said this "cease· He said a ceasefire had the port of political self determina presented to the Communists at fire in place'' should be inter­''full support" of the govern­tion by the South Vietnamese the Paris peace talks today by nationally supervised, cover all ments of South Vietnam, Laos with a chance for Communist Ambassador David K.k. Bruce. warfare including bombing and and Cambodia. "Nobody has participation in selection of a Nixon urged North Vietnam terrorist acts, and prohibit any anything to gain by delay and new government. "A fair poli­to join the United States and buildup of outside combat only lives to lose," he said. 
tical solution should reflect the "give our children what we have forces on either side. At the same time he urged 
existing relationship of political

not had during this century, a He asked that the Paris convening of a new Geneva-style forces" he said. chance to enjoy a generation of negotiators take up a ceasefire peace conference on Indochina But Nixon firmly denounced peace." 
immediately in the hope ''it will to parallel the Paris talks and 
the Viet Cong call for a coalition After personally briefing his break the logjam in all the perhaps absorb them in the 
including members of the pres­cabinet and congressional leaders negotiations... search for a political settlement ent Saigon government exceptof both parties at the White Together with a ceasefire in of the wider conflict. 

for the top leadership of Presi­the Middle he said a bait 'This war in Indochina has 
dent Nguyen Van Thieu, and been proved to be of one piece,"' 
Viet: President Nguyen Cao KyNixon said. "It cannot be cured 
and Premier Tran Thien Khiem. by treating only one of its areas 
'The other side is not merelyof outbreak.'' 
objecting to a few personalities,.. Indochina includes North 

he said. ''They want to dis­Vietnam, South Vietnam, Cam­
mantle the orga.nized non­bodia and Laos. The region was 
Communist forces and insure the held by the French as colonies 
takeover by one party and theyuntil 1954 when the Geneva 
demand the right to exclude agreements ended French con­
whomever they wish from trol and established the indep~n­
government. dent nations. 
'This patently unreasonable The Viet Cong had proposed 
demand is totally unacceptable," Sept. 17 in Paris that U.S. Nixon declared. agreement to withdraw all its forces from Vietnam by next 
Reds Mum

June 30 could be followed hy discussion of other issues, in­dulling a political settlement There were no indications in and release of prisoners of war. Washington that the leadership 
Nixon turned this around, in Hanoi was prepared to accept proposing an immediate cease­Nixon's initiative. fire and standstill as now in After an advance briefing by effect in the Middle East as Secretary of State Willim P. well as a prisoner exchange, to Rogers, Foreign Minister Than at be followt•d by wider talks on Khoman of ThaiIa nd said South­troop withdrawals and a future east Asia ''deserves" the benefits 
this years senate arc WSND dis~.: Assista1it News Editor Floyd government in Saigon. of a ceasefire "but this hangs on jo~.:keys Don Mooney Kczelc is running in Grace. the willingness of the other (Off-Campus). and Frank Devine Ranking Stay Senator Tom side."
Negotiations Offei:ed 

(Dillon), Observer editorial page Thrasher said after the meeting A i)igh-level ad ministration editor T. C. Treanor and NSA thai he thought the meeting h<Jd official said neither the National
Instead of announcing further

co-ordinator Steve Novak {0.-C). attracted so me rather talented Liberation Front, politi~.:al front 
or faster U.S. troop withdrawals,
Also Rich Wall, former individuals, and that he hoped for the Viet Cong. nor the Soviet 
as some had speculated hePresident of Fishl'f, is seeking a for a good year in the Senate. 
would, the President said only: (continued on page 3) 
scat from Fisher and Observer 


Harte comments on Nixon address 
Mr. Nixon's speed! would he "a sincere, he would fully support crime Hartke said, ''There's a
by Glenn Sorge 

them. However, Sen. Hartke direct correlation between un­
During a press n)Jlfercnce in dramatic, pre-election slate­
employment and crime.'' Th•: South Bl·nd, Senator Vance ment" whi~.:h would call for a exposed his doubts stating "I way to help sulvr the crime Hartke spoke about his cam­si<JIHlstill and cease-fire in Viet don't want the President to olav problem is to eliminate unem­paign platform centering on the nam much likl' the
issues of unemployme.nl, crime. g;:mes with I he liVL'S of American and President Nixo.n's address proposed last AU!(USI. men. ployrnenl. Although 5Y2% unenl­last night. ploymenl is acceptable to my lie lakr indicall'd that, if the Turning his attention to the opponent. it is not acceptable to Vance llarlke."
Sen. Hartke predicted that l'resid cnt's Peace Plans were problems of unemployment and 
Speaking about the oppostion in his state-wide battle for reelect ion, Mr. Hartke called by ((athy Schwill~ (;overnor Whitwmb "the major 
SMC Alumnae Boord will feature dialogue 
Vice-President, president of the Army game. 
tragedy of Indiana." lie alsoThe fall semi-annual meeting McCandless Hall Jane Sheehey, Representing 9.000 SMC 
stated that the (;overnor hand

of the Alumnae Board of 
and Diane Derfler. past president alumnae the Alumnae Board 
picked Mr. Roudebush to

Directors at Saint Mary's College lists ifs major operaIions as
of Regina Hall. Also attending 
oppos<: him. Hartke went on to

will take place Octoht·r II and servi~.:c to the Alumnae
will be Carol Henninger, a 
repeat his accusation that Mr.

will feature a luncheon dialogue Association and aid in managing
member of the Academic Affairs 
Roudebu~:h is a mL·mber of an

between members of the hoard Coun~.:il. The students will internal affairs at the college. 
affiliate group of the John Birch

and student leaders. 
discuss current trends al the The Alumnae Association 
Society.

Mrs. Timothy Galvin, Jr.. college and answer questions sponsors clubs in 55 cities and president of the twelve-women from the board. publishes a quarterly magazine board will conduct the meeting of alumnae news. The SMC Hartke also came out in favor
The Sunday luncheon is that begins at <J:OO in I.e Mans Alumnae Association is the of an all volunteer army to he
one of sev<:ral activities which llall. Representing the student the board members will attend oldest Catholic women's college implemented as soon as possible. government ai the Sunday whik on campus this weekend. alumnae and the seventh oldest lie ended Ihr confercne hy luncheon will be Anne Marie Saturday the alumnae will he womL'n ·s alumnae organization claiming, "Th~: Indiana farmer Tracey, Student Body President honored at a dinner following in the nation. has two great plights . the wrn Jean (;orman, Student Body hlighl and the Nixon hlighl .. 
Page 2 _THE_ OBSERUM 

Shakespeare marathon raises funds 
Sister M. Marita's Primary Day phasis on "concept development people in pursuing sources of 
marathon is to be a su<.:cess.
by Dave Stauffer 

School, located in the St. Ste­as a basis for language develop­funds and in fund-raising efforts. 
/\nyonc who wishes to read isBeginning this afternoon at phen's School Building on the ment, which in turn is the basis However, as explained by Dr. 
asked to contact Jim Rocap,one o'clock at the flagpole West Side of South Bend. The for developmental reading skills. Paul Rathburn, Notre Dame co-ordinator of the reading, atShakespeare will he read as he purpose of the day school is to Concept development also forms English professor and a director 1201.
has never been read qefore -for teach inner-city children the the core for the integration of all of the Primary Day School, the There is a strong possibilityninety-seven consecutive hours. basic reading skills in an at­the language arts which is very procurement of sums from agen· that Senator Ceorgc McGovern,The marathon reading will be tempt to bring these children to essential for a meaningful read­cics is "a long-range project'' who will be visiting South Bend an attempt to break the previous the level achieved by children ing program," as stated in a which takes a great deal of time to speak on behalf of Senatorworld Shakespeare reading rec­from the typical suburban area. letter describing Sr. Marita 's day and persistence. 
Vance Hartke, will read for aord of ninety-six hours, set in The method used by Sr. Marila, school teaching program Therefore, be<.:ause funds are period.
1963 by students of Hope the director, is the Conceptual The program began operation urgently needed to keep the Sisler M. Marita, the dire<.:tor
College in Holland, Michigan. Approach to the Teaching of in the I968-69 school year and school running on a short range of the Primary Day School,But much more importantly it Beginning Reading. has survived for two years as a basis the Shakespeare reading holds a masters degree in chemis­will be an effort to raise Briefly explained, the Concep­result of the tireless efforts of has bewme a reality. Rathburn try and a Ph.D. in education desperately needed funds for tual approach places strong em-Sr. Marita and other concerned stressed the fact that, although both granted by Purdue Univer­
the reading may look silly on the sity. She has taught on the surfa<.:e, and although many primary, high school, and college

NO Drs. help "dying" community 
people will have fun at the 
levels for over twenty yearsreading, the fact is that "it is an 
While serving as an Assistant N. D., ind.-Fabens, Texas, merican, and the figure is even The Notre J)a me team, point­attempt to raise money where Professor at Marquette Univer­a "dying' community on tne higher for those 21 yt:ars and ing to the advantages of continu­money is desparatdy needed." 

sity she began the research Mexican-Ameri~:an border is 
younger ity of leadership and controL 
Many members of the Notre which led up to her present getting some deathbed curatives Methods were designed to strongly urges action for inwrp­Dame fa<.:ulty, as well as mem­proje<.:t. Over five years of this week in the form of obtain information on personal, oration at this lime. Adoption of 
bers of the administration and intensive experimentation in­recommendations form a Univer­economic, education, business, the measure would enhance the students will he featured at the volving over 2.000 Milwaukee leadership, farming and other town's. ability to hold <111(1
sity of Notre Dame sociology=­Shakespeare reading. Two peo­area students led to the develop­
anthropology team. aspects of the community. The attract new industry and permi ple will read at all times, ment of the Conceptual 1\p­Broadening of the decision-· economic survey disdosed that tthe formation of committees working in shifts of one hour. proa<.:h. Sister Marita is stationed 57 per cent of the people had concerned with zoning, public
making powers and income Therefore approximately 200 at St. hancis Convent , Mount 
distribution an: major suggest annual incomes of $3,oo and edu<.:ation, health, farm liaison, 
people will be m:eded if the /\!verna, in Mishawaka. ions in a 500-page report prepar­$5,00. Forty per cent of all et<.:. ed under the supervision of Drs. families and 60 per cent of the William V. 0:/\nlonio and Irwin Mexican-1\rncrican families arc 

Sadat nominated Egypt president
Press. both Notre Oame pro classified as "poor." fessors of sociology and anthro­While parents generally ex­
new proof of the U.S. altitude deputies who were present. Sixpology. pressed high hopes for their CAIRO (UP!) The national toward the Middle l·:ast <.:risis," deputies were absent and oneWork on the study began in .childrens' future, many were assembly meeting in extra­the Cairo spokesman said. constituency was vacant he said.
April, 1969, when the parish resigned to the dim realities of ordinary session last night nom­
priest Father Robert M. (;ctz. the job market. Sixteen per cent. inated t\nwar Sadat 51, to su<.:­
and a 1963 Notre Dame alum­of the t\ngloe residents in cecd the late (;amal t\bdt:l Nas­nus, Jess Daffron, noted that Fabens have been graduated ser as president of Egypt for the Fabens' biggest export was peo­from college, a figure well below next six years. 
ple. Most of these, they noted, the national avarage hut only Assembly Speaker Labib were poorly-trained and poor­three per cent of the Mexican-A­Shukair announced the nomina­ly-educated. mericans received a college de­lion of Sadat, a longtime asso­
D'Antonio and Press express­gree. In one five-year period. <.:iale of Nasser and acting presi­ed interest in Fabens' problem 1964-1969, one-fourth of the dent sin<.:e the latter's death on and when the community's par­young left Fabens to establish a Sept. 2H, was unanimous. ish offered funds to initiate the 
foothold elsewhere. The nomination must now be project, it became a reality. /\n The researchers' recomrncnd­approved by ~bout H million additional $1 5,000 was secured ation3A ·Unless Fabens organizes l'ligihle vot~:r.i in a nationwide from the Robert F. Kennedy itself provides the educational referendum sch~duled for Oct. Institute at Notre Dame and a opportunities, seeks new dired­
15. bilingual research team of Notre ions in regional employment 
The assembly a<.:tion came as Dame and St. Mary·s students opportunities and participates an official government spokes­was assembled which worked in federaL state alllilo<.:al govern­
man blamed the United States under the direction of ment programs with appeal to 
for the failure of the Big Four D'Antonio and Press. the young, the decade ahead 
talks on the Middle East to The researchers' goal was to may be one of mass exodus of achieve any progress. The provide as much information as the young. Within a decade the spokesman was <.:O mmenling on possible with which Fabens town <.:ould change from one the announ<.:ement Tuesday that could work and plan for a better predominantly under 20 to one the United States was pulling 
community. over 4 5 years of age." out of the deputy level discus­Notre Damt:"s faculty-student Fabens is legally a "non­sions being held in New York. team moved into what they -town." ln<.:orporation was tried The spokesman said that Big described as a "basically unat some 40 years ago, but failed for Four were unable to "achieve tractive'' community. The arch­reasons that arc not dear at this any progress because of the itecture, with the exct:ption of time. Forty persons signed a stand taken by the United the upper middle-class areas was petition for incorporation a few States, which has opposed most 
adobe or concrete block. years ngo, and it was reportedly of the suggestions put forward Eighty-five per cent of Fabens' ·killed" by six community lead­by other members." 3,500 population is Mexican-A-ers. ''This announcement is only a 


RMS Audio regards the TEAC Al200U as the ideal tape deck 
for the serious recordist who 
wants high level performance C"oupled with a modest price. 
Response--? 1/2 ips 30-20khz --3 3/4 ips 30-lSk hz Wow-flutter--7 1/2 ips 0.12% 
--3 3/4 ips 0. 15"/o Signal to noise ratio--50 db Independent line and mic inputs 
--sound on sound--echo 

For a demonstration and com­
plete data sheet, stop in soon at RMS--the Audio Specialists. 
M OPEN 3-8 M-TH s_AUDIO___. 
1-4:30 SUNandFRI 
Phone 288-1681 

CLOSED SATURDAY 1307 E. CALVERT 

Israeli offi<.:ials and news­
Sada's nomination had been papers applauded the U.S. action cxpe<.:ted in view of his scledion which they said indicated a "har­by the Arab Socialist Union, 

der line"' by the Nixon Adminis­ASU, Egypt's only legal politiatl tration toward Cairo and Mos­party. ww. They said Washington Sadat has ~ en a close asso­apparently is skeptical iu ,j,,., <.:iate of Nasser's since before the of Egypt ian Soviet violations of overthrow of the Egyptian mon­l he cease fires, of their sincerity archy in 1952. He and Nasser in efforts to find a peaceful were among the inner cirde of solution. young army offi<.:ers who spear­
British officials were <.:ritieal headed the revolt whkh toppled of the U.S. movl: which littY the late King Farouk from his indicated came as a surprise in throne. London. They said Britain Sadat and Nasser had been favored •.·ontinuation of Big close friends as young second Four efforts toward a Middle Iicutenanls stationed at desert btst sl'ltlemcnt. out •1osts during the late 1930s. 
Only a two thirds majority of The i"1 icndship deepened over 
the assemble was required for three decJdcs until it became Sadat's nomination hut Shukair dear that Nasser saw in Sadat a said he won the votes of all 353 logical successor. 
RoudeiJush Implies U.S. aid 

The fiJI/owing is an editorial augural address said: (quote) broadcast hy WFBM, an Indiana­''We seek an open world--open polis radio station, regarding a to ideas, open to the exchange television ad jbr Richard Roude­of goods and people, a world in bush. which no people great or small 
will live in angry isolation." 

A wntroversial political spot But the plain facts are there is aunouncement run in hehalf of very little American trade with the Senate candidacy of Repre­communist <.:ountries. In recent sentative Richard Roudebush years it has amounted to less implies that the United States is than one per cent of all U.S. aiding the VietCong through the trade. And there is virtually no trade it carrie~ on with com­trade with any communist 
munist countries We don't be­country outside Eastern Europe lieve this is true. and the Soviet Union. 
It also implies that there's In addition, the Export-Im­something almost treasonous port Bank Law of 1968 bars the about haveing voted for the granting of credit -an essential of legislation that permits this international trade-to any coun­
trade. We don't believe that's 
try in armed conflict with the true either. 

United States or any country The spot announcement 
aiding su<.:h belligerents. And the a<.:cuses Senator Vance Hartke of 
Export Control Law of 1969 having voted for this legislation. 

limits the commodities that can But one of the ironies of the 
be sold to communist countries, issue is that Roudebush has also 
and it gives the President the power to remove items fr om perwit limited trade with certain that list or restrict trade with a commuui~t countries. And, for wuntry altogether if he consi­
serveral yeurs, it: has been a ders it against the national inter­matter of natiu!"la I policy to en­est. courage such tradt:. Knowledgeable men do differ 
Former President Johnson about the value or hazard of advocate~.! !rade in non-strategi<.: trading with communist goods as a m..::• ns of building countries. But on the basis of doser ties and mo;·~ pea<.:ef11i this nation's present trade poli­
relations with the Soviet Union cies, we see no reason for any­and other wmmunisL nation~. one to get very excited about And President Nixon, in his in-the issue. 
•·oted for legislation that would 

-------------------------., 
Thursday, Oct. 8, 1970 THE OBSERVER. Pagf' 1 

Business Courtyard dedication is planned 
Philip J. Lucier and his father. lion of Columbus, Ohio was vive there. So, the courtyard was The decision is soon to be made,
by Stephen Kane 
When the plans for the Hayer­the same time interested in carefully designed, plan ling the with the dedication thereupon.
The newly built courtyard -Healy Center had been drawn erecting some physical structure 
few trees and shrubs strategical­joining the Hayes Healy Center up, one of the projects listed had in honor a past executive with ly, to comply with the avaible -----------------. 

and the Hurley College of been the building of a patio United Telep,hone of Indiana sunlight Adding to these some Business Administration is soon between th~o: two business build who had passed away. This 
permanent cemeted benches to be dedicated, possibly to both ings. The L&M Berry Founda-man's son, Mr. Philip J. Lucier were buill along with a fountain. an alumnus of Notre Uame and 
Upon completion a plaque was president of Continental Tele­
then to be made and dedicated phone Corporation, acted on 
to Mr. Lucier. behalf of the Foundation, which 
had decided ln finance the con­
Then tragedy struck. Mr. Philip J. Lucier, father of eleven,
struction of the court yard in was killed July 24 when he
honor of Mr. Philip Lucier's turned the ignition of his car and
father. Construction commenced at 
set off a pipe bomb planted tht' closing of school and w<t~ 
beneath the seat. The result of completed he September. Be­
this misfortune is that including cause of the iack of sunlight and 
both father and son in the dedi­space, little pland life could sur· calion is now being considered. 

Nixon's Goal: End killing 
(continued from P<l~e 1) liam C'. Westmoreland, the Army
stance in Paris. was made pos­chef-of-staff.
Union was informed in advance sihk by ''the remarkable success of details of Nixon's new nego­of the Victnamit.ation policy" of tiating package. training South Vietnam to as­None were smiling as theyThe President and his deci sume a grc:.~ler burden of the war posed for photographers. Nixon
sion, reached after a month-lo1~g effort. 
looked grim.

review of the U.S. negotiating
Hayes-Healy courtyard 
!\bout three hours before he Although Nixon's speech went on the air, Nixon and his came less than four weeks before 
national security affairs adviser, the Nov. 3 congressional elec­Dr. Henry A. Kissinger briefed tions he had stressed before­
campaign attracts attention 
Ottinger's campaign is well rolled members of the Conser­
NEW YORK, The 1970 sena­Democratic and !Zcpublican hand that it was no "propaganda
financed and Buckky realizes vative party, polled the sur­
torial campaign in New York leaders in Congress. On h:;ntl gimmick'' but a comprehensive
that if he is to win in November prising total of I ,000 000 votes
Slate is picking up sharply in new U.S. attempt to break the
he will need plenty ol money tor were Rogers, Oefense Secretary
and he expects to do a great deal

public interest and appt'ars likely Melvin R. Laird and (ien. Wit-negotiating impasse on Vietnam.
TV advertising and
exposure, better this time out.

to attract as much national at­
other campaign expenditures.

tention as Gov. Netson A. Rock­
In winning the D~o:mocratic 
efeller's bid for a fourth term in nomination against three op­Buckley, who is the elder office. 
ponentes last June, Ottinger brother of William F. (Bill)Competing in the U.S. sena­spent heavily on television and Buckley, a well-known colum­torial wntest are Rep. Richard 
was sev~o:rely criticized for doing nist and editor of the National 
L. Ottinger, Democrat Sen. 
so. The criticism has had no Review, is campaigning on a 
Charles E. Goodell, 
apparent effect on Ottinger for simple platform.
Republican-Liberal and James he continues to appear on T'/ lf elected. Buckley says he L. Buckley, the Conservative panels at ev.:ry opportunity. He will "try to he the best senator party nominee is aware the Goodell being on in the Senate and defend our 
With the November ~o:ledion the Rockefeller ticket will not country against every a·ttack ont' month away, Goodell is lack funds 'for television or any from ,within and without " suddenly finding himself in a other form of exposure. very sticky situation. Buckley, too, is aware of the 
value of TV and is trying to do 
Many Republican regulars an­
something about it 

noyed at Goodell because the 
He is sending out thousands 
Rq1L1hlican senator has consist 
of letters asking for campaign 




r···5~~·;·3·~;~······1
t:ntly criticizt:d the Nixon 1\d­
contributions from supporters of 

ministralion on Vietnam and 
President Nixon and Republican

other issues are reported to be 
leaders such as Sen. Barry Gold­

turning away from their party's 
water and Gov. Ronald Reagan.

candidate and toying with the 
: OF MANHASSET, NEW YORK :
Two years ago Bw.:kley. the 

itka of switching to Bucklt'y. 
hacking of only I00 000 en­
1\s a result. has sud·

Buckley dt:nly become a strong contend­cr. The race is no longer consid­ered just a contest bet Wct'n <;oodcll a Rockefeller protege, and Ottinger, a brilliant cam­paigner who won the Democra­tic primary in June in a con­vincing manner. 
Gov. Rockefeller, engaged in his own campaign against Arthur 
J. Goldberg. the Democratic gu­bernatorial nominee, said rumors that he is at odds with Goodell were ''greatly exaggerated." lie insisted he is still supporting Goodell. It was rocky who ap­pointed Goodell to the unex­
pired term of Robert in 196R.  Kennedy  
TYPING Any material. an_i•  length,  

charts and diagrams. $.50/page. Will pick up and deliver. Call Connie Paden. 289-0177 after 4 PM 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St.· Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Ob­server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
An Observer investigation has uncovered the interesting fact that present Student Union 
Director  Bob  Po hi  has  an  out·  
standing  debt  of  $45.47  to  
C~mpus  Press.  Apparently  the  

debt was incurred during the Student Body Presidential race of last year. and has never been paid back. Rumor has it that Pohl sneered and laughed when asked if he was going to honor his obligation.-ed. 
Missouri W ee"end 


Bus to St. l.ouis 
Sponsored by St. Louis Club 
Lv. Friday Noon Return Sunday Evening 
$15/MEMBERS  $17 /NON-MEMBERS  
John 1793  Jim 1131  
420 Gr•c•  337 W•lsh  



: NOW OFFERS ANY $8.18 I·TRACK : : CARTRIDCE TAPE FOR 5•50 : 
• This includes postage & handling • • Orders processed same day as rec'd. •
• 6 so 
To be sure you get •

• 7.98 TAPES -YOUR PRICE • the tapes you want • 
• n~~ • 
• 9.98 TAPES _ YOUR PRICE 1l Be sure to include •
8 00 

' • your name & full •• 
address (please print) • 2) Enclose Certified Bank • 
• Check or money order-• SPFC!A/, no. 2 NO cash accepted
COLOR by Deluxe. 
• 
~<@ 

:BUY 6 TAPES AT REG. REDUCED PRICE .;;;;"~OWN~
Starring Godfrey Cambridge 


eoF 5.99 EACH & RECEIVE ANY6.98rAPE 13 NORTHERN• 
: FREEt ·aLvo.: 
e . MOHUSne 
• Please include I.00 to cover 
NEW YORK. 

• Postage & handling for special no.2 • 
11030 

e W£ CARRY ALL (212) 627-0324 e 
: THE LATEST HITS 4) ~~c~~::s.2nd & 3rd choices: 
• INQUIRE ABOUT STUDENT DISCOUNTS ON TAPE PLAYERS • 
THE OBSERVER. 





THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 


Musings On Chile 
The imminent election of a Marxist-Leninist as president of Chile 
is a source of cons1lern:.~tion, questioning, and serious thinking. It was 
partly Jue to certain historical economic. anJ political 
considemtions which arc particular to this time and that place and 
therefore say nothing more ahuul more general matters. Hut it was 
also l:aused hy somdhing deept'r which has almost an alh:gorical 
llll'a ni ng for us. 
Alh:nde won. not because of a suduen, great surge of communist 
strength, but because of the divisions among non-communists and 
their inahilily to offer a real alternativt: which was more than 
communism itself somewhat walereJ down. On a det:pcr level Chile 
is a sign of sorts of the inability of non-communists West to cope 
theoretil:ally with Communism because of its inability to offer a 
theoretical alternative to l:Ommunism which is more than 
communism watered down. 
Every rna n has a faith, whetht:r it ht: theism or materialism or 
nihilism, or anything else man is as much a believing as a rational 
animaL And the West today is unable tu offer an altt:rnative faith to 
communism, because it has rejected the faith from which it was 
horn. Communism itself is a Western product a perversion which is a 
sign of that rejection, the rejection that displaces God and st:ts up 
.nan in h his place. The effect of the displau:ment of Christianity has 
hCl'n mil igal.ed by its deep roots in our society. But now even the 
deepest roots arc being attacked, for instance marriage. whi~:h is at 
prt:sent undermined hy high divor~:e rates increasing abortion and 
such things. Communism is thus able to move into a vacuum in 
western societies unless the West ilsdf fills that vacuum. 
One attempt to fill it has been social democracy. This movt:mt:nt has had various forms, hut in each of them emphasis has been on dcmol:rat ic pol ii ical slruct ure and a welfare stale social policy The preceding Chilean President Frei, was typical of this type of alternative to communism, and also typical I think in not being able to offer a lasting alternative. There arc several reasons for this. 
First "democracy" is essentially a means and a form, rather than an end in itself. It is a framework within which different ideas compete for the support of the people in order to gain political power_ Ultimately democracy is unable to serve as an <lllernativc faith to communism because democracy can itself he the means by which communism gains power_ (We have experienced this dilemma before. in Vietnam, where it was difficult to fight for ..Democracy" when it was clear to many that even in free elections Ho Chi Minh would probably he the winner) 
Second, the .. Sol:ial'· pari of ~ocial democracy is also inadequate. Ikvclopmcnt programs and p·or.,·cssive egalilarhtn mcasurt:s can help a people in many ways a~ lh~;y :Ji'C said to have done under Frci But real progress is achieved gradually rather than overnight so that slow successful mcasurl'S stimulate tht: appetite of those whom they are addressed, without satisfying them -with the result that the shattered faith <1nd disappointment leads tht:m into the hands of those who make bigger better more radical promises of utopia. And when the communist utopia fails in its turn, it is generally too Jatt: since the people arc no longer in a position to chouse another course. having lost anv right at all to choose. 
Thus social demot:racy, including many forms of ..Christian democracy.. which attempt to root this movement in Christianity is unable to compete with communism in most societies today where H,c basis of Christ ianily has been undermined by materialism to the point where the supposed Christian alternative to communism is just another, somewhat watered down, form, of materialism. 
Unless the power of Christianity is revived in Western society rather then being ignored or warped there does not seem to he any prospect of offering an alternative faith to the communism and it would seem then that Chile may not ht: the last country to see the free democratic election of communism power. 


O'Shaughnessy Hosts Surrealism 
Currently. on display along three realities. hve male figures G Shaughnessy's art corridor is a 
arc partially sketched so that the series of drawings by Thom:Js light pencil strikes from a faint Walsh. One of these surrealistic outline emerging into the paper's 
I<lixcd-media drawings evokes a 
vacuum whiteness. Charcoal striking illusionary dreamworld. shading then adds a phantom This particular drawing, The "hardness" to the otherwise Regents, seems to comprise unbounded h0rizons. 
Fr. Jlo61rl Grlfffll 
·::~:::::;:~:~:;:!:~:~:~:~:~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::· 
Love stary, 


Greenwltldl styl 


On summer evenings when I am in New York City, I enjoy pcrchmg myself in an observer's post on a park bench in the Village's Washmgton Square Park to enjoy the events of that three-ring human circus. Usually at such times, I slip off my Roman collar and app_ear in sh_irt sleeves like the rest of the inner city nobs. That way 1 avo1d questiOns put to me by the purer-in-hP.art than I: "Father, what an~ you doing here in this haunt of wickedness'!" In answer, 1 am always tt~mpted to chuckle naughtily, as though this night's pleasure preferably taken in an opium den, was being financed bv mortgages on the parish tabernacle. As a matter of fact eve~ 
without the collar I am known by the Blecker Street regulars ~s one. of the Jesus-people. I have visited too many Third Avenut' coffee· houses in my Vatican regimentals for it to be otherwise--unforgettably fat, irreproachably chic with my gold-headed walkmg stick veritably a God's little acre in my turned about clencal collar. In the Village, it is only among the tourists that lam unaccredited as a minion of Rome. 
It was as a stout man in Mufti that I m~t Michele, this summer. She approached me for a cigarette, as Village people are apt to do. At fmt l was concerned that she might be one of the soiled doves in flight from Eighth Avenue; in turn she hoped, I think, that 1 was Malcolm Boyd. She was disappointed: I was not, for Michele would have been as out of place with the faded blossoms on Eighth Avenue as I would have been among the Carmelite nuns in the convent at. l.isieux-With an older sister now married in Connecticut. she had 
come to the VIllage to live as a flower chilcl thn~e summers hefore. She was now nineteen, and in love with a boy named Brian, they sh:1red a room together on Mac Dougal Street. Michele was seven Joonths' pregnant with Brian's child. At this point, Hnan appeared in the park with a hamburger he offered to share with Michele and me, but I declined to be a guest at their little family supper. Brian's story was as simple as Michele's: as an orphan, he had run away to the Village at the age of twelve and had grown up with the encouragement of a super-hippie named Calahad, presently in jail for the possession of narcotics. Now, at the age of nineteen. Brian was tempted to re-enter the world outside the Village, but experience had taught him, he felt, that the outside world neither wanted nor needed his kind of membership. Michele asked if I would bless her unborn child. When I said I would, she placed my hand on the slope of her body swelling with new life. and I prayed that God would Jove the little mother and her infant with all the gentleness of His triune heart, and that He would protect them more carefully than the sparrows He sometimes lets slip from out of the sky. I am never good at homilizing on park benches, so I can't brag that eventually I succeeded in handing over to these two park-Arabs their passports to Mr. Agnew's America. What made this evening unforgettable was that before I left them, this pair of dropouts asked me to marry them. Not in church, or with the nuptial formalities of City Hall, did they wish to be married. Of all love, these two knew with certitude only their love for each other. They wanted to celebrate their at-one-ness as man and woman in a ceremony that would respect them as the alienated souls they felt themselves to be. They wanted imposed on them none of the formalities of a faith they didn't practice or of an establishment they couln't be involved with. I explained to them that as a priest, I couldn't perform sacraments except under the circumstances that the Church prescribes, and that in marrying people, I must observe the directives of civil law. As a Christian, however, I said I could witness any commitment in love they might wish to make to one another, and I could ask God to bless their heing together, hopefully for the rest of their lives. So, on a bench in Washington Square Park, with half of Skid Row as attendants, I performed my first hippie wedding. Only, of course, it was not really a wedding at all. I know that and Mayor Lindsay knows that. and the Cardinal-Archbishop of New York would agree. But for Brian and Michele despite all my preotestations on the contrary, I think it seemed a lot like a wedding, though their opinion cocsn't count. After all they're just a couple of kids who dropped out. A little later that night, I met, three of our present Notre Dame seniors who were cruising the park in search of girlfriends, and they invited me for a drink at a place called the Now Bar, across the street from the Andy Warhohl Theatre on Bleeker Street. As I sat there among the young couples, sipping my non-cola drink, I noted that at the bar of that dark place, two young men were caressing each other. I said to myself, "'Father what are you doing here in this haunt of wicked ness'!" It was not as a priest, but as one of the Jesus-people uncollared, that I answered myself. 
The four background figurL'S 
seem to be either portr<Jits in a 
Kafkaesque lighted office or the 
mental images of the foreground 
figure. Each of the top four 
flatly rendered men has a 
different inorganic vaguenecs 
The half-sketched man on the 
far left re$embles th·e moon in 
phase: hidden within the paper's 
empty space and the charcoal 
shadows. Walsh selectively draws 
only dark eyeglasses on the next 
figure's fact~ which otherwise is 
de rna terialized. The next 
proportionally larger figure is 
faintly sketched (suggesting a 
steamy mirror image) while the 
far right figure is profiled into 
oblivion. 
Contrasted to these 
phantoms, the man in the 
foreground is rendered in a 
sculptured toundness by 
charcoal shading on the face and 
stronger pencil lines forming the 
figure. The faint, yet precise. 
lines impart a feeling of anxiety. 
The man's face is ex pr.csscd as 
deeply in thought whereas the 
top four seem incapable of such 
activity. Also the forefigurc is 
large enough to balance the four 
other figures. 
The strong quality of Walsh's drawing is the nebulous surroundings suggested by the thin pencil lines forming the figures. The abstract shading isolates the portrait-heads and contrasts the thin lines. Walsh thus conveys a feehng of 
Paradis exhibit 


at SMC Gallery 
"Ceramics and Pai.1tings by H _ James Paradis" will go on exhibit Monday, October 5 in the Moreau Gallery of St. Mary's College. The exhibit has been planned to show Paradis' ability to work in different media and to offer comparison studies of his form and color techniques, and control on both the two­and three-dimensional levels. 
His pottery presents free form sculpture and fanciful construc­tions of both wheel-thrown and slab construction. In contrast is a marble profile executed with a classically oriented sense of construction. Paradis' work in glazing and decorative tech­niques is also apparent in his pottery. 
A series of nonobjective acrylic-run paintings reveals his experimentation in means of controlling the run of paint on canvas. 
Nationally exhibited, Paradis has held a number of one-man shows including an exhibit of his work in clay forms at the South Bend Art Center. Repeat­edly he has taken first prize at the Michiana Regional Show and has won major prizes in other regional competitions. His pieces have been accepted for the Syracuse National Show and have been included in the Show's traveling exhibit to major museums throughout the country. 

A member of the St. Mary's faculty since 1967, Paradis pre­viously taught ceramics and sculptu're in the adult education programs of Indiana University and the South Bend Art Center He is presently teaching in the new St. Mary's year abroad program in Rome and is engaged in research in selected periods of Italian art. 
is?lation and a kind of mystery ot mtercommunication. One will also note that space here is not 
As Fat Fred, the Mishawaka 

perspective, but, rather, it is an 
mechanic, says: 'The biggest emptiness. Walsh's painting, The 
room in the world is the Regents, evokes a striking 
room for improvement. ' 

surrealism indicative of the entire collection of his drawings on display. 

Dave Lammers Joplin and Hendrix Art and Death 
J~nis ,!o¥1in ( .. 1 d?n:t give a_ damn about anythin, I just have a good 
t1m~. ?, IS _dead. J1m1 Hendnx (' _1 just couldn't make it without my 
music. ) Is dead from suffocatiOn, having smothered in his own 
vomit after taking sleeping tablets. 
Mme than any ¢thcr American artists, Joplin and Hendrix were in 

a class by themselves. Their unique artistry personified the spirit of 
the_ American coun~er-culture, and as symbols of our generation, 
their deaths are of 111terest to those of us that live on within the 
culture that Joplin and Hendrix have left. 
Artists, as any man on the street will tell you, are usually insane 

or close to it. Van (;ogh cut off his ear and then blew the rest of his 
heac: off with a shotgun; Virginia Wolfe walked into a river. Lenny 
Bruce, shot an overdose of heroin, Hart Crane jumped off of a ship in 
the (,uJf of Mexico, and Hemingway blew his brains out with a 
shotgun. The musician or artist that is not an alcoholic or drug 
add1ct IS a rare case, though Dylan and McCartney seem to be 
tremendously happy. 
Artists that possess that intuitive sense of creativity seem to be in 

touch with the spirit of their time and culture to a more intense 
degree than the ··average" man. The "sense" or "touch'' with the 
culture that the arti:-.~ has is manifested symbolically in his art. Rollo 
May, in ·'Love and Will'·, has developed the theme that the artist and 
the neurotic h:>ve in common a special sensitivity to the prevailing 
neuros1s of the1r culture. The artist embodies the cultural neurosis 
and expresses it through his art. Those people that lack a creative 
uullet or creative ability manifest their neurosis in other sometimes 
more destructive, ways. 
Consider the modern Western artists, such as Samuel Beckett. who recently said, "Even the words themselves detract from the meaninglessness of it all_'· Or look at the watercolors of Paul Klee or .the later works of Picasso, with the dispointed arms and disfig~ed forms. Or to come home to the soul of Notre Dame, does anyone remember the contorted faces and bodies of the football players of 
the ex-1-luddle mural? 
B~t it is rock music that is the special art form of our 

ge~eratJO_n. Probably all of us have experienced a certain psychic 
umon with the rock artists of our day, a feeling of physical and 
mental abandonment that trasforms reality for a while. For better or 
worse, the prevailing symbol of our generation, to my mind is the y~ung. long hai_r~d, wildly dressed rock fan, sitting on the ground With a half ~ milho? other fans stoned out of his mind listening to J11111 ~endnx pl~ymg the National Anthem on his electric guitar. Th_at IS what I thmk of when I think about where our generation is go~1~g, what we are up against, and where our unique potential lies. 
I w? of us are dead, burned out by alcohol and drugs and the frenetic pace of the concert rock artist. Their passionate voices and erotic life styles no longer cry out to us. and death has quieted their desperate artistry. 
The features page has switched editors once again. And every new editor thinks that under his editorship truth and happiness will find expression, beauty and art will find its home. This is the present hopeful illusion. 
THE OBSER Vt..'R features page considers all the developments and personalities in the UniJ!ersity that are not strictly news material. This includes, traditionally, concert, album, and play reviews. plus humorous and absurd articles that spoof the Notre Dame scene. 
But the features page can be much more. This page can contain articles by the Notre Dame and St. Mary's faculty, whose thoughts haPe in the past been largely absent within this newspaper. The faculty might he especially interested in doing hook. reJJiews or in-depth articles about contemporary eJ!ents. 
Photo essays. cartoons, interviews with campus personalities, articles about happenings within the South Bend area, insights into the political, economic and cultural structures (no matter how imaginative or radical) are all areas that can find expression in this page. 
The worth of the features page is limited only by the imagination and creatil1ity of the persons that contribute to it. If you have talents to offer, thoughts to express, or suggestions for articles, please feel .free to call Dave Lammers at 283-8661 or 288-2182. T1zank you. 

7/IE O&r.ERfi.Eit 
letters to the Editor 
Dear Editor: government to be effective -or do exist. 
I am writing this letter in even to exist any more. To think Voting '"yes" for the reference to the October. 6 that any elected official ·Princeton Plan" is absurd· Big editorial concerning the student represents a majority and that a Deal. So you work to help a referendum. body of such officials represents candidate into office. You know 
According to the Observer a still larger majority, is that he is in a minority. You editorial board, qnd a great rediculous. In a nation of such know that large bureaucr~tlc many other people it seems, we size as ours, we have but a great governments do not move fast· 
the Student Body of the number of minorities whose You know that feeding the"'iis·.ooo investment you 
University of Notre Dame are lifestyles and opinions happen to Common Good is just like 
shirking our political duty as coincide every once in a while. running in place tiring and citizens of the United States by When some governmental useless. having rejected the proposal put decision comes out of Voting "No" for the before us. I think that it is about Washington, pronunziamento: ''Princeton Plan" in absurd. To time that student political "Common Good", actually it is become incensed at the activists face a few facts. Common Goood for some, breakdown of normal university 
First of all, the "change the repression for others. world" idealism of those young As long as a self-perpetu­people hurling themselves into atingly evil system is allowed to the governmental hodgepodge of exist, there really is no cause to elections must realize that it just hope for improvement The won't work. The United States officials may change, but the has gotten out of hand: as a system molds them to itself nation it is just too large and too necessarily, regardless of their complex for a democratic good intentions, if they actually 

THE GARY BURTON QUARTET 
O'Laughlin Auditorium Saturday, Oct. 17-8:00p.m. Admission-$2.00 CAF Patrons-FREE 
Dear Editor: At times the Observer Features Page has a tendency to display a great lack of taste in its effort to entertain us all at lunch time. But Monday's first in a series of '·Poo-bah" interviews was particularly depressing. Almost anyone will admit that Notre Dame is an awfully competitive place, especially for ''student government types". When all those former student council presidents gather in one place, their first instinct demands run for 


buy a book... meet a friend 
Whether it's a book you need or a book you want, chances are we've got it. Textbooks. Mountains of paperbacks...all the new titles. Plus this-when you shop at your 
Possibly government is alive and kicking today only h~cause of Notre Dame's higher-than-normal quota of chronic vote getters. 
Anyway, this year's student




l,,,,,,,,~~~i~i:~a~~:~~i~;~,,,,,,J 
government has been trying to 


STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION 
Presents Johnny Rivers 
Tickets $1, $4, $2
Sha-na-na 
. STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE . BOOKSTORE 


Saturda . DINING HALLS 
activities-is to be thinking that, if the strudure of learning breaks down for a moment, then everyone must vegetate until classes reopen. You know that you've only had a class or two worth remembering. You know that if you hadn't become a 
probably would have been elsewhere by now anyway. Of course therf' are those who make the university a true learning experience. Of course there are. Of course there are. 
get away from this competitivenes~:. We have tried to emphasize S.G.'s service aspect while working against the clubish, politico atmosphere of the past. We in S.G. are of no higher calibre than the average Notre Dame student We are involved because we are interested, just as some people are interested in football. 
tutoring, or the campus media. We hope the other students see student government in terms of 
rather than as pl~iyed by 

why Monday's features page diswuraged us. The darker side of this campus' nature doesn't need any encouragement from the Observer when power struggles absurd. What to do? Obviously, not voting was a good start. Why bother? Fr. Hesburgh says that the modern student needs a better sense of history. Any sense of history will show you that we've only progressed in technology, confusion, and hypocrisy. Were killing our species, man, so sit hack and enjoy it. You know there's no escape. 
Smile, God loves you, 
Nick Talarico 
I 26 S. Taylor 

and Poo-Bahism is involved. Someone will be elected SBP next spring for sure. And if tradition is maint:tined, the campaign will involve plenty of angry people who like to win. The Observer only adds to the problem of unhealthy competition when it starts the politi..:a I season in September. Likewise, a series of articles on "famous People" smacks of an 
elitism that we hope doesn't 
I.'.Xist here. 
We want to we have no 
certainly acted in good faith when contacted by writer Ellis. It is unfortunate that his name had to he used so freely by the Features Editor in his introduction, as were Lht~ names of other students. 
Primarily though, we hope that the Observer features tditor remembers that David Krashna is still SBP. and will he until next 
March. Jt seems unfair to discuss his potential successors as he is still developing the programs of his administration. We hope the Observer might write a feature story som~day on Dave Krashna 
his background, his personal philosophy, and his aspirations Possibly an Observer writ~r could sp~nd some time with Dave and do a "Day in the Life" type of story. This could fill up the features page with something a bit more positive than speculation and '"Poo-Bahs." 
Thank You 
The Student Government 

Ci.lhin~t 
Thursday, Oct. 8, 1970 
711E OBSERJJER. Page 7 

Denny Allan accepts the challenge 
by Terry Shields Observer Sports Editor Every year there seem to he a few new names popping up on the Notre Daue campus that brand a sophomore as a "can't miss'' prospect at halfback. He has blinding speed, good moves and tremendous size. But for the last two seasons these potential superstars have not been able to oust one solid running back. This back is Denny Allan. Allan has been a starter since his first varsity game as a sopho­more and aside from a few weeks during that first season when he was injured, he has not been out from the starting back­field. The 5'11" senior feels that these new names that .:orne up every spring have been a sort of blessing in disguise...When you hear about a new player who is supposed to be tops, it presents a personal challenge to be tops, 
it presents a personal challenge to hold your position. I've been lucky enough to stay away from injuries for the most part, which has helped a great deal. I just go out and listen to the coaches and try to do the things they want " 
This is not to say that Allan is lacking talent He is a strong runner and very adurahle co­holder of the ND record for most carries in a game with 29 vs. Michigan State last season. He has a knack for finding the hole and reading blocks by his linemen. He rates as one of the better blocking backs on the Notre Dame squad. 
Denny feels that there is much to learn about playing, halfback, especially at ND, where the backs must be versa­tile. "This was a big change from high school where all I had to do was run when they called my number. Coach (Tom) Pagna (offensive backfield) has been a 


Denny AH•n wm be • doubtful st•rter for the Army pme. The senior halfback has been slowed up with strained tendons in his ankle. 
Pro hockey •tn Convo 
The Fort Wayne Komets of 1969-70. Jerry has Coach Elmer the International Hockey League (Moose) Lalla directing the will play the Muskegon Mo­Club. Moose holds the distinc­hawks on Sunday, October II at tion of being not only an 
7:30 P.M. at the Athletic and All-Star defenseman. but the Convocation Center lee Rink. All-Star Coach twice in the past 
Fort Wayne is the most suc­10 years. He is most known for 
cessful minor league hockey o­his many thundering body 
peration in the country. The checks and general all around 
1970-71 season marks the return defensive brillance. 
of Ken Ullyot to the coaching The International League is 
reigns. He has a record of 468 one of the top minor leagues for 
wins and 39 5 losses and 64 ties the NHL. The best known gradu­
since taking over at Fort Wayne ates are Carl Brewer of Detroit 
in 1958. He retired to become and Frank St. Marseille of St. 
General Manager in 1968, but Louis who went deirectly from 
returned this year after perennial the IHL to the big leagues bad-man player coach Moe Bar-· Tickets are now on sale at toli resigned to go into business. $3.00 for reserved and $2.00 
Fort Wayne has only finished general admission at the ACC 
lower than 2nd, 3 times in the and its ticket outlets of Elkhart reign of Ken Ullyot and on one Truth, Robertsons and Gilberts of these occasions they went on of Souf~ Bend. to become playoff champions 
Fourteen of last years squad 
lnterhall Soccer

will be back, headed by Trevar Fahey and Ron Ullyot (Coaches The lnterhall Office has an­son who is a Michigan Grad). nounced that it will sponser 
a Another interesting sidelight is soccer tournament. Anyone is that Rich Brown is a former eligible except members of the player'· of Notre Dame Coach soccer club. All rosters must be Lefty Smith while in Minnesota. submitted to the lnterhall office Muskegon is owned and man­
by October IS. Further informa­aged by Jerry DeLise and were 
tion can be gained by calling Mr. Kelly (Tel. 61 00).

the Champions of the league in great help to me. He taught me games against weaker opponents fluence his career but his older how to block, how to read holes though. I don't really know brothers all persuaded him to correctly and how to run a good why, but it seems to happen that play football. "When I was 
pass pattern and, most impor· way." younger I used to go see them tant how to get those extra Like many athletes, Denny play for John Carroll University yards near the goal. I admire him Allan sets goals for himself. "I (Cleveland) under coach Johnny a great deal as a coach and also think 800 yards rushing would Ray (former ND defensive as a man. He's been great to me be a reasonable goal for this coach). I thought they 
were off the field in many ways too." season. Before the beginning of good ball players then, and now After two seasons one might the season I was thinking in I try to emulate them." expect that practice day in and terms of a thousand yards but After graduation Denny has day out may get to be increas­our offense is too balanced to decided on one of two things.ingly difficult to endure. Denny rely on any one hall carrier for "If I get drafted I will definitely 
agrees. ·'Anything you do day in the much yardage." 
give pro football a shot. I don't 
and day out gets to be a grind Since coming to Notre Dame 
really have a preference for any
but this is where our coaching Dem1y has continually kept in 
one team but hopefully not 
staff is great. They know that close touch with his family, par­a surplus of running
one with 
almost two hours on the field ticularly his father, Charles 
backs, though. If I 'don't play 
every day can get monotonous Allan. My dad usually calls once 
professionally, then I will teach 
so they lighten up the workouts a week to see how things are 
history and coach football on a 
if they sense that the entire going. He rarely misses a game I 
secondary level I think that my
squad is sort of 'down.'' think it means a lot to him to 
experience here under Coach 
In no way would the see me play and because of this I 
Parseghian qualifies me to coach 
190-pounder from Ashtabula, try that much harder. I really 
at most any school." 
Ohio, agree that there are some want him to be proud of me. As 
These careers may prove a 
opponents that you can't take for Mom well, she worries a lot, 
challenge for Denny Allan but 
seriously. ''I can honestly say but I think she still wants me to 
he will probably just face them 
that I am afraid of every team play. She often tries to hide this 
as he has faced all the challenges 
we meet. After the first few but she would really be dis­
at Notre Dame. When you call 
series of plays I am okay, but I appointed if I weren't out on him D. Allan that big "D" may never take a game lightly. It 
that field on Saturday." stand for dependable and 
seems that I have my poorer only his parents in-
Not do durable as well as Denny. 

Season Statistics 
Scoring by Quarters TEAM SCORING ND OPP
1 2 3 4 Total Total Points ............... . 112 14
Notre Dame 31 43 14 24 112 

Avg. per Game .......... . 37.3 4.6 
Opponents 0 14 0 0 14 

No. of TDs ................... . 15 2 by Rushing ............... . 11 1 by Passing ........ . 4 0 by Returns ............... . 0 1 TEAM STATISTICS Field Goals (Att-Made) 2-2 0-0 Safeties ....................... . 0 0
ND OPP 

PAT-Kick .................. . 14-14 2-2 Total Offense ....... . 1604 568 PAT-Run ................. . 1-1 0-0 Total Plays 285 189 PAT-Pass .................... . 0-0 0-0 
Yards per Play 5.6 3.0 

INDIVIDUAL SCORING
Yards per Game ........ 537.7 189.3 

G TD Kick Play FG TP Net Yards Rushing 1025 374 Hempel ... 3 14-14 2-2 20 Allan 3 4 24
Attempts . 230 106 

Theismann 3 1 Run 8
Yards per Rush .. 4.5 . 3.5 

Barz ........ 3 2 12 
Yards per Game .. 341.7 124.7 

Parker . . . . . 2 2 12 Dewan 1 1 6 
Net Yards Passing 579 196 

Gatewood 3 3 18 Attempts ............... . 61 83 Minnix .... 3 1 6 Completions ............ . 37 21 Gulyas 3 1 6 Completion Pet. .607 .253 
INDIVIDUAL PUNTING
Had Intercepted 2 5 

NO. YDS A VG LONG
Touchdown Passes .... 4 0 

Yoder 8 281 35.1 43
Yards per Attempt . 9.5 2.4 

Roolf ·········· 1 41 41.0 41 
Yards per Completion 15.6 9.3 Yards per Game ....... . 193 65 RUSHING G TC YDS A VG TD Long Punt Return Yards 16 132 Allan 3 40 162 4.0 4 12 No. of Returns . 8 6 Gulyas 3 44 208 4.7 1 21 
Theismann 3 35 170 4.9 1 37
Avg. per Return 2.0 22.0 

Barz ....... . 3 36 164 4.5 1 14 Minnix ... . 3 25 129 5.2 1 33
Punts 9 19 

Cieszk'ski 3 9 39 4.3 0 11
Yards Punting ..... . 322 678 

Parker .... 2 11 115 10.4 2 63 
Avg. per Punt ... . 36.0 35.7 Dewan ... . 1 2 5 2.5 1 4 Had Blocked 0 1 Steenb'ge 3 4 8 2.0 0 3 Night'gale 2 3 6 2.0 0 3 Penalties .... 19 8 Johnson .. 1 3 16 5.3 0 6 Gallagher 1 1 3 3.0 0 3
Yards Penalized ...... . 178 78 
Fumbles (Lost) ....... . 7(5) 11(5) 

PASSING Total First Downs .. 83 40 G No Comp Int Yds TD Pet Th'sm'nn 3 60 36 2 551 4 .600
Rushing .... 53 22 

St'nb'rge 3 1 1 0 28 0 1.000 
Passing 27 12 Penalty ..... 3 6 RECEIVING PC YDS A VG TD Long Gatewood .. 28 420 15.0 3 39
INDIVIDUAL TOTAL OFFENSE 

Creaney 2 66 33.0 0 55 
LEADERS 

Barz ........... . 3 47 15.7 1 17 
..

G Plays YDS A VG Tereschuk 1 28 28.0 0 28 
Trapp 1 3 3.0 0 3
Theismann 3 105 721 6.9 

Parker ....... . 1 3 3.0 0 3 Allan .............. 3 40 162 4.0 Allan ......... . 1 12 12.0 0 12 Barz .............. 3 37 180 5.0 Gulyas . . . ......... 3 44 208 4. 7 RETURNS (No.-Yds.-TDs) Int. Punts Kickoffs Ellis ........ ... ... 3-20-0 Results: Won 3, Lost 0, Tied 0 Stepaniak .... 1-15-0 
N.D. 
35, Northwestern 14 (50,409) C Webb ·······t··· 1-11-0

Crotty ........ . 5-4-0 

N.D. 
48, Purdue 0 (59,075) C Nightil)gal 2-9-0 4-77-0 

N.D. 
29, Michigan State 0 (76,103) C 1-3-0


Parker 
...t-··· 
I I 


26,000 megaphones: you got to be kidding 
by Tom McGowan No, we're not, and in case you have been wondering lately just what 26,000 megaphones look like (I m sure that you have been lying awake every night for the past month pondering such a relevent questio'n), just ask any one of Notre Dame's thirteen varsity cheerleaders Believe it: or not they now have some 45 ddd boxes of "Total Sound" stacked away in rooms, in closets, under beds, and in car trunks. One would wonder what the cheer leaders want with all those mega­phones. Well, we have a few problems (no comments from the lunch crowd) among which the most outstanding is money. For the first time the cheer­leaders have plans to attend all ten regular season games es­pecially the national champion­

ship game in Los Angeles at Thanksgiving, as a group, and since the University budget does not allow for such travels some way of raising money had to be found; ergo 26,000 megaphones You ask, why should a member of the best (loudest) twelfth man in college football need a megaphone. Well, you could give it to your HTH for a souvenier, send it home to mom for her birthday Uust what she always wanted), block up the end and fill it with your favorite bever­age, save it for the annual spring panty raid, wear it for a hat or fold it up into the world's first official Notre Dame paper air­plane and float it gently down at the cheerleaders when the Army game gets dull. Who knows you might even want to use it to cheer at the rally and the game. So, take a quarter to dinner Friday night, get your very own 
official gold and blue Notre 
Dame megaphone, and help send 
13 really nice people to Californ­ia. ----Would you believe hap­piness is a warm· megaphone--­


Sen. Hartke ''di~Cl•ps in'' at SMC 
The pep rally for the Army game will be moved from Stepan Center to the North Quad in front of the Biology building according to Blue Circle· pep rally chairman Doug Coppola. This is the first time that the traditional rally will be held outdoors. 
The reason for the change is that Stepan Center has already been reserved by the a'cademic commission for Friday and Coppola felt that another Convo rally would be a failure. 
Featured speak,ers for the rally are quarterback Joe Theismann, lineba,cker Jim Wright, offensive back coach Tom Pagna and one of the fabled Four Horsemen, Don Miller 
. The band wiill b1egin its march at 6:45. 
accompanied by two members
by Joseph Abell 

of his staff answered questions In an unannounced of the students and expressed his appearance, Senator Vance views on many issues. 
Hartke (D.-lnd.), spoke to Hartke said that the reason about fifty St. Mary's students for his appeotran,;e on the cam­Wednesday afternoon. pus was that he f1!lt students had 
The informal session held in something to add to political Stapleton Lounge was mainly an campaigns. He compared this to · open discussion, lasting slightly Republican party ideas that over half an hour. Hartke students would be of little help 
:OeGaulle's book pub5shecl 
PARIS (UPI) Gen. Charles de Gaulle said in a new volume of his memoirs published yester 
day Franco-American relations 




TONITE Frosll, Sopll's, & Jrs. 
Signups for 1970 Stude11t Trip to the Southern Cal. game wiU be held 
Where: 
When: 

COKE BAR (Basement LaFortune) 6-9 pm (Thurs. Oct. 8) $20 non-refundable reservation fee $231 total price 
Hurry, only a limited number of available seats left! See the game that wi,t decide the 1970 National Championship. 
began to sour almost from the day John F. K~~nnedy became 
U.S. President and that he warned the young President against involvem,:.nt in Vietnam. 
De Gaulle said Kennedy re­vealed to him in mid-19<il that the United States was preparing the Vietnam intervention, and that he warned the young President he would be leading America into a bottomless l(Uag­mire. 
De Gaulle's book, entitled "'The Renewal '· is the fourth in a sequel of six volumes of memoirs the former French president has written or plans to write about his experiences be tween June, 1940 the beginning of the free Fren<.:h movement 
and  April, 1969,  when  l1e  was  
forced  to  resign  the  French  
presidency.  
De  (;aulle  wrote  in  his  

memoirs that following Ken­nedy's visit to France in late May, 1961, ··It turned out that the attitude of the United States with regard tu France had really decidedly changed." 
According to De Gaulle. l~ en­nedy had been unwilling to treat France as anyth1mg less than a junior partner and was also unwilling to lake: French advice into consideration. 
during a campaign. His stop at St. Mary's is part of a tour of colleges to enlist the aid of students in his campaign. 
Commenting on his opponent, Richard Roudebush's campaign tactics, he said that the accusa­tions made by Roudebush had hurt him, and had confused him as whether or not to answer what he called Roudebush's "lies." He then said that he decided he would ignore Roude bush's accusations and would continue his own campaign as fairly as possible. 
When asked his views on pollution, the Hoosier Senator mentioned that he was now in the final process of preparing legislation dealing with pollution laws. According to his hill he said, the government would measure waste produced. by industry, and that a ''rewards and punishments" type of sys­tem would be set up to help enforce the laws. 
On Vice President .~,piro Ag­new, Hartke said that Agnew's speeches had not hurt him, but that they had hurt only the Republican party. 
Hartke was also asked whether or not he supported birth control. He replied that he was in favor of· private birth control, but that he was against government control. 
He said that he believed that the decision should be left to the individual couple. 
Because of another engage­ment, the senator was forced to cut short his meeting. 


Hawaii C4ongresswoman in Indiana 
South Bend, Tuesday, Oct­ober 6...Democratic Congress woman Patsy T. Mink of Hawaii, Will tour Indiana's Third Con­gressional District this weekend as a guest of Congressman John Bradcmas (0-lnd). 
Mrs. Mink will visit four Third District cities on Saturday, ac­
cording  to  the  following  sche­ 
dule released by  Bradem;Js:  
9:00  a.m.  Coffee  at  Ply­ 
mouth.  

10:30 a.m. Op,~ning of Mish­awaka Democratic Headquarters at 121 North Main Street Misha­waka. 
11:45 a.m. Press Conference at Brademas Campaign Head· quarters, 111 South Michigan, South Bend. 
I :3 0 p.m. Attend Notre Dame-Army football game 
6:30p.m. Columbus Day din­ner at DcAmkis Club, 302 West I lth Street, Mishawaka 
9:00 p.m. Elkhart Democratic Women's Club dance Athenian Room. Hotel Elkhart. 
Brademas, who serves with Mrs. Mink on the House Educa tion and Labor Committee and the Select Education Subcom­mittee, said: "I have worked on legislation with Mrs. Mink for the past six years and regard her· as one of the most capable Mem­bers of Congress. She has OJ distinguished record as a legisla­tor in the field of education and 
she  has  also  provided  strong  
leadership  in  consumer  affairs  
and  poiiUtion controL"  

She is a co-sponsor with Bra­demas of a major bill to provide Head Start-type programs for all Amnican schoolchildren. 
Mrs. Mink is one of ten women members of the U.S. House of Representatives. 
Besides her Education and Labor Committee assignments, she serves on three subcommit­tees of the House Comrnit1 ee on Interior and Insular Affairs. 







