HUSSEIN PROBES US AID 
(UPI) The Jordanian army ·claimed Monday to have halted an invading Syrian armed force coming to aid Palestinian guerrillas in the fifth day of civil war. U.S. paratroopers were put on alert for possible action to rescue stranded Americans in Jordan. 
King Hussein of Jordan ordered his troops in the capital of Amman to stop shooting Monday night in a move to .end the widening conflict, but the guerrillas said they would continue to fight. 
'Our revolutionaries are de .ermined to continue the fi &-'lt until they force the traitorous butchers to stop the massacre,"said a guerrilla broadcast from the Syrian capital of Damascus. 
Jordan's army chief of staff, Marshall Habis Majali, 
said in an Amman Radio and blamed the widening Tel Aviv said Syrian forces broadcast Mi!nday that his conflict on the Syrians. using tanks broke through troops had halted the Syrian The White House expressed Jordanian lines Sunday night advance into northern Jordan deep concern for the safety and early Monday and cap­after fierce battles. Diplomats of about 400 Americans in tured the town of lrbid, se­
in Amman said Syria sent Jordan, including 38 hostages cond largest population center two armored brigades-about from hijacked planes held in Jordan. 8,000 men-across the lightly captive by Palestinian com­The Israeli sources said the defended border over the mandos. A spokesman for P ·e­
Syrians were in complete con­weekend. sident Nixon said the sih,a­
trol of lrbid, which is situ­Offi~.:ial sources in Washing­tion was "very serious, com­ated only 18 miles from the ton said Hessein has asked plicated and very fluid." 
Jordan River cease fire line the United States and other Egyptian reports said more with Israel. major powers what they than 6,000 persons had been 
The Tel Aviv newspaper would be willing to do to killed and thousands more Yedioth Aharonoth. which has 
wounded in five days of
help him resist the Syrian close contacts with the Israeli troops. The sources pointed fighting in Amman and other Defense Ministry, said Monday 
out, however, that the J or­Jordanian centers. The Pales­U.S. intervention in Jordan danian king had not appealed tinian Red Crescent relief or­
may be imminent. In a page for military assistance in so ganization said "Jordan is one story, the newspaper said many words, but asked gener­threatened with disease and American paratroopers may
hundreds of thousands are
ally what assistance he might land in Jordan in King Jessein expect. Hussein charged that threatened with death from appealed for help. Syrian forces invaded his starvation and thirst." In Washington, the Penta­country to help the guerrillas An Israeli military source in gon announced that the 82nd 

Voi.V,No.10 Serving the Notre Dame and Sa{nt Mary's College Community 
Air-borne Division in North Darolina aand other military forces in the United States and Europe were alerted Mon­day for possible evacuation duty. The U.S. helicopter car­rier Guam was already in the \'\editerranean carrying a 
I,500 Marine landing force on a similar standby assignment. 
U.S. troops were last used in the Middle East in 1958 when President Dwight D. Eisenhower sent Marines to Lebanon to prevent an alleged attempt by Egypt and the Soviet Union to engineer the overthrow of the Lebanese re­gime. 
American hoops landed in the Dominican Republic in 1965 to protect U.S. citizens and prevent a Communist re­volution. 
Tuesday·, SeJJtern ber 22, 1970 
Absolute majority needed for recess; Student Council membership okayed 
May 1970, set up a vote to 4. --created a student-facul­
by Dave McCarthy to be made up before the
the November elections.'' de~.:ide whvther or not special ty election board, chaired by
end of the fall semester. TheYesterday afternoon the 58 Conklin noted that the recess would be called from the Notre Dame registrar, toSt. Mary's council participated
member Academic Council of Notre Dame council, acting in Oct. 24-Nov. 4, with classes conduct the referenda.
in the discussions and decisionNotre 'Dame and the 12 mem­
5. --noted that, in the

because both schools share aber Academic Affairs Council event of spedal recess, thecommon calendar.
of St. Mary's met in what two institutions would closeAccording to a newsletterR i c h a r d Conk I i n , N o t re as for a vacation period, withby Conklin, in their guidelinesDame's Director of Public In­
the suspension of normal formation termed, "the first the councils: activities, such as food ser­1. -confirmed the holdingjoint session of the two aca­vices.
of separate referenda for fac­demic policy making groups." 
Conklin also noted that,ulty and students on each'­According to Conklin, the "the Notre Dame Academiccampus on Friday, October 2.
councils "issued guidelines for Council voted to add seven2. -declared that, in order next months vote by faculty (7) students to full member­for recess to be granted, an
and students on whether or ship, including voting rights,
absolute majority of the com­
not to recess for two weeks for a two year trial period.''
bined faculties and of the According to the newsletter,combined student bodies of "the students, who would
both schools must have 
serve one year terms, wouldfavored the recess. An a bso­
Saigon SU 

be selected as following:lute majority is a majority of l. Four students; one from"those eligible to vote in both each of the undergraduate
asks help 

constituencies. 
colleges.
3. --stipulated the days 
2. One student representingclasses would be made up in the combined student bodies


fromNSA 

.the event the referenda favor­of the Law school and theed recess, with most make up
by Steve Novak Masters in Business Adminis­
classes coming from a shorten­tration Program.
ing of Thanksgiving and
National Student Associa­3. One student representingtion (NSA) Co-ordinator Steve Christmas breaks, comhined the Graduate School.
Novak, told the Observer yes­with Saturday classes. 
4. One student, ex officio,
terday that the national offi­the student government aca­cers of the National Student 3emic affairs commissioners.

SMC proposes; drug policy
Association have invited Stu­"The Academic Council re­dent Body Presidents and by Kate Cassidy tained the right to increase orother Student Govemment well-being of all members of 4. The usc of undercover decrease the student represen­officials of member schools to Two major proposals, pre­the community. A student agents in any form is repug­tation in proportion to in­JO!ll them at a press con­viously approved by the St. 
jecpardizing this by a drug nant to all segments of the creases or decreases in theference Wednesday morning in Mary's Student Assembly, violation will continue in College's community, since it total membership of the coun­Washington. The conference is were considered by the Stu­good standing subject to the creates distrust and fear. 
cil itself, and said the mannerto announce arrest of the dent Affairs Committee at its due process of the judicial 5. Recognizing St. Mary's of selection of student repre­head of the Saigon Student meeting last night. The first procedure of the College. Dis­Collegt· ""-; a position within sentatives would be deter­
Union by South Vietnamese matter to be considered was tinctions will be recognized a wi(lt:, 00ps unity, the cam­mined by a Council Commit­
military officers August 30. the statement of a drug poli­between the nature of the pus administradon wiJI cooper­tee, appointed by the chair­Mam, the head of the cy for the .community. The drug and the action involving ate with law enforcement man.
Saigon Student Union, was proposal was ammended at the student in an offense. agencies within the framework The Council also said theresaid to have been arrested the previous meeting, and was 3. The primary responsibility of this stated policy, when would be a review, after twoalong with 116 other Viet­passed unanimously. It is of the College to a drug of­necessary for the well-being of years, to see if student mem­namese students for alledgedly stated as follows: fender is constructive rehabili­members of the wider com­bership would be discontinued
organizing demonstrations I. St. Mary's College 
tation. Within the limitations munity. or made permanent."
against the appearance of Spi­acknowledges that the use, imposed by law, the College This proposal now goes for Also, according to Conklin,ro Agnew in Saigon last possession, or transfer of should encourage medical consideration to the Student "a committee will be appoint­month. All but four of those drugs is forbidden by State and/or psychological consulta­Affairs Council. ed to plan future joint meet­arrested were reported released and Federal statutues. 
tion, as well as provide a pro­ings (between the St. Mary's
The second topic of discus­within a few days, but Mam 2. The fundamental concern gram of education for the in­and Notre dame's councils)
sion was that of off-campus1f the college relative to drug dividual as well as any mem­whenever agenda items con­(Continued on page 3) abuse is the insurance of the ber of the Stu dent Body. cern both schools." 

Page 2 THE OBSERf.IER. Tuesday, September 22, 1970 
Ombusman Hyde says service ready 
by Rich flanagan be found in the problem of during graduation to the issue is the obvious problem of fhat the service is at its full Student Government two freshmen who missed the of extra laundry charges. students not aware of the capacity at the present time. Ombudsman Dan Hyde said dcadlincr for the pickup of Not all questions can bt' services of the office of the he still hopes to expand with 
yesterday that he expects the their football tickets. Working directly handled, Hyde said, Ombudsman, thus neglecting the future appointment of a 
ombndsman to reach its full but the ombudsman service is to use it when problems arise. university Ombudsman which
through the ombudsman 
capactty soon. The Second problem is more is expected later in the year.
office, the two fresh men were able to direct th~ question to Hyo<~ said that after a year particular in that there is The office hours are from
able to secure their tickets. the proper channt'l where it of <,pe~1ing the channels of I i ttle that the Ombudsman 3:00 to 5:00 pm, Monday
Other examples of problems should receive prompt and communication with those handled by Dan and his staff proper handling. can do in the area of through Friday. Their phone people in the university who academic grievances. is 7638. The service is for all
range from the question of Hyde explii!ncd some 
have direct dealings with the rooming for the parents drawbacks to the service. One, AI though Hyde reported who wish to use it. students, the service should reach the efficiency that is 
sou~ht. 
OC housing discussed at St. Mary's
Appointed by ::>tuaenr 

council President Dave !~rashna, Hyde is assisted by a staff consisting of . Jim LaDieu, Joe Wenke and Frank Devine. 
Officially the ombudsman is linked to the student council, but Hyde feels that he and his staff are open to all questions and problems that a student may have. An example of the services that the Ombudsman can offer can 


_'CC'____________. provided for in the present 
I;~~;·· 
PHOTO 
ON 100 
000000~0000
I ONLY$1 STAMP 
ooooooooooo 
I 
Send us any photograph ...black & white or color, of yourself, your family, friends, pets, anything ... and we'll send you 100 gummed, perforated, stamp-sized 
pictures. You'll find 
ooooooooooo 
many uses for them ... seal or sign your letters, identify books and rec­ords. Use them for date­bait, or just for fun. 
= 
To get your I 00 photo­stamps, simply cut the name Swingline from =any Swingline package. Enclose photo (which will be returned) with cash, check or money­order for $1 and send It with the coupon below. 
It's easy! Buy a 
Swingline TOT Stapler 
(including 1000 FREE staples and carrying pouch). Larger size CUB Desk Stapler or CUB Hand Stapler only $1.69. Unconditionally guaranteed. At stationery, variety, and book stores. 
S.---·---L-~ 
_®INC: ll·OOSK; :r 11101

r--------------­
1 Swinglmc PhotC>·staml', Dept. 98 I P.O. Box 1126, WoodSJde, N.Y. 11317 
Enclo~cd j, my photo and ca~h. chel:k nr

I 
money-order for~ I ,00 with the name Swingline from any pal·kagc. Pk~t-.;c ru~h ml' 100 phnto-:-.to:unp,, 
:-:ame__________ 

(Continued from page 1) 
housing. Kathy Barlow, the student 'responsible for pre­senting the proposal to the Student Assembly, presented the proposed policy statement to the Committee. 
A question arose as to the reason the college should ap­prove off-campus housing. It was the con census of the Committee that approval of facilities should be made, as 
off-campus housing policy, by the student and her parents. 
Dr. Thomas Conway, a fac­ulty member of the com­mittee, pointed up one of the problems students should con­sider when formulating their criteria for approval of hous­ing. He referred the Com­mittee to the present housing crisis in Boston, and reminded them of the fact that in that area, students will pay a greater rent for inferior hous­ing, and are therefore directly competing with the poor of Boston who are also in need of housing. 
Sr. Immaculata agreed that this is a real problem, and said that she believed that as far as a code of acceptability in the area of off-campus housing was concerned, "This should be student approved ­it would have great educa­tional value for the student concerned about these issues." 
The next problem dealt with was that of "empty beds" would moving off­campus become so popular that the College would be faced with dorms not filled to capacity? 
It was found that St. Mary's intends to accept roughly 170 more freshmen for the I971-'72 school year, and has plans to rennovate their existing dormitory space to provide for 160 additional beds. This would obviously create a problem for the Col­
lege  if  too  many  juniors  and  
seniors  decided  to  move  off­ 
campus.  

The relative merits of going through with this rennovation before accurate figures on the number of girls planning on living off-campus were com­piled was then discussed. As Miss Josephine Barallat, another faculty member pointed out, "There are many things to be considered. If there are more students, there will be a greater need for classrooms and offices." 
Sister Immaculata then pointed out trat, according to the Heald-l'obson study done on space a tlocation last year, until St. Mary's enrollment reaches 1700, there will not be full utilization of existing 
classroom space. The point was made that girls still need areas for study and relaxation and student representatives 
expressed  the  fear  that  with  
the  new  rennovation  plans,  
this  space  would  not  be  avail­ 

able. 
Sister answered by saying, "You'll have to convince the Board (of Trustees) then, that your needs are more than just a bed, that space has been al­located properly, and that no beds over and above the num­ber allocated will be left un­
filled." 
The last point debated con­cerned the stipulation in the proposal that when a student moves off-campus "the school relinquishes its role of 'in loco parentis'". It was pointed out that the terminology used was inappropriate the school rio longer considers it­self "in loco parentis" for any student, on or off cam-
vote was postponed on this proposal until it could be changed or re-written, incor­porating some of the Com­mittee's suggestions. 
Barkett made HPC chairman 
Junior John Barkett, Presi­dent of Morrissey Hall, was elected chairman of the Hall Presidents' Council in a meet­ing yesterday. Barkett ran unopposed. 
The council also discussed plans for this year's Home­coming, and decided not to limit the decorations to one specific theme. 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7-500 ·ZIP: 60611 
Please add sales tax where applicable 
The Llbserver is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage Paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 


Tuesday, September 22, 19:70 
THE OB'SERVER. Page 3 
SMC plans sex ed. 
by Ann Thl!rese Darin 

Yesterday afternoon SMC's Planned Parenthood organiza-ative; "however. we are failing health committee met to dis­t i0 n, contacted Miss Eglet. as educators h to neglect to cuss plans for inaugurating sex Writing about an idea fostered give our studc 1U the straight education and drug programs. by Dr. Willi;:m D'Antonio of facts." Committees headed by Kathy t'le f''ntre D~me sociology "We can't make our stu-Eglet (Sex ed) and Ann Dept., Mrs. Thatcher said, "I dents' moral decisions," he Siebenaller (drugs) empowered certainly feel that it would continued. "We are merely to st. ·'dure feasible programs. give us a viewpoint which we telling the stud~:nts what in­
WorK.ng with the commit­should have." formation is availlable and pro-tees of ten students, they Ann Siebenaller also expects viding someone who can plan a campus-wide distribu­to use freshmen cla~s advisors counsel them." 
tion of pertinent material as discussion . group leaders Citing the teaching of other sanctioned by the AMA and and they will interpret effects-controversial data, Dr. the Mental Health Association. psychologically, scientifically, Bambenek sai..~. "the history This informatiqn will be plac­philisophically, theologically, ani political science depart­ed in the offices of student and sociologically about drugs. menb teach courses on com-government and health services "1 realize that these are munism. Yet tht:y don't con-and Room 44 (Holy Cross). touchy issues," said Dr. done it. We an: striving, for 
"Our job will be to distri­Bambenek, faculty represent-the same program.:' 
that, where Student Hody Pre­bute sex education inform­
(Continued from page 1) 
sidents were unable to attend ation and to structure a and three others ramain in the Washington press confe-workshop," said Miss Eglet.
jail. 
rences should be called upon Her committee is institutingThe Saigon Student Union receipt of Ifshin's statement, this workshop primarily for has proclaimed an unlimited to give local support to the freshmen class advisors, but is hunger strike in that ~ountry. 
national office's action. A open to all students. At these to end when Mam is released copy of lfshin's statement will meetings, speakers from both from prison. In a telegram to be sent Special Delivery to ND-SMC faculties and from NSA, the South Vietnamese Novak as soon as the wording South Bend will address the students indicated that they 
groups on different aspects of may resort to self-i mmoliation .i>lovak reported that in a sexuality: physical, social, and to dramatize the situation. 
has been finalized. 
psychological. ­At the Wednesday press 
telr:pllone conversation he had 
with the national president,
conference, NSA President 
I fsl1in ernphasized that this
David lfshin is expected to As a result of these work­~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~
latest development in South 
shops, the freshman advisors
announce that the national 
Vietnam could be used as a :~~~~ Catholic Alumni Club f
staff of' the Association will would develop their own pro­
base from which to ask some 
go on a ten-day hunger strike, grams. "Another possible area
hard questions concerning the
and request students at other in which students could be­
Welcomes Single, Catholic, College
Nixon administration's policy
schools to join the strike. The come involved would be the Graduates
on Vietnam, and in particular
end of the national staffs appointment of students to
"the type of government i
hunger strike is planned to South Bend's Planned Parent­Post game party after
which we are supporting" in
coincide with the arrival of hood Association," said Miss
South Vic:tnam with our armsSouth Vietnamese Vice Presi­ant• money_ Eglet. "These students would NO-Purdue gamedent Ky in Washington to 
however, in no way represent
Novak said that Ifshin saw
participate in Carl Mcintire's the college."
this action as a natural out­227-B Cripe Street"March for Victory" October growth of last spring's nation­
3. :!il.UU charge tor non-members 
al student strike, which was In July Mrs. Ann Thatcher,NSA staff members added 
originally called for by NSA. peresident of South Bend ...........................••............~ 
! OBSERVER NEWSMEETING !
'I am not a dov~~' Ky coming to IUS 
SAIGON (UPI) Vice Pre-explain to his countrymen being pacifist, one has to be 
sident Nguyen Cao Ky of ! For all Frosh interested in !
why he felt compelled to warlike. What I have to worry South Vietnam, ignoring make an unofficial visit to a bout most is the good of official advice against. such a the United States to address Vietnam. For that reason, my • trip, plans to leave Tuesday an Oct. 3 "Rally For Vic­voice in the United States 
for the Paris talks and the 
tory" in Washington sponsored will be one of warrior to ! writing and for all retur·ning ! 
United ·States to present his by right wing fundamentalist another ally." country's cause "for the good preacher Dr. Carl Mcintire. 
The U.S. State Department
of Vietnam." 
"I am not a dove and, to 
and segments of the American
Ky made a rare television : upper classmen :
be truthful, neither an I a 
news media advised Ky to appearance Sunday night to hawk," Ky said. "For before 
cancel the trip because of the impact his visit coul,~ have on Marx to talk tonight on environment the elections ~ !d because it could be unsafe for him. 
Wesley Marx, the first 
titled Man Against H[s Waste. speaker in the Notre Dame and St. Mary's Academic 
Marston Bates, a noted Council's series on the envi­
naturalist and zoologist, ronment, will address a Li in New
writing the York brary Auditorium crowd to­
Times Book Review said that night at 8:00 p.m. 
Wesley Marx "has carefully Marx was the author of 
documented the damage we the award-winning book The are causing to the beaches, Frail Ocean which was ex­the estuaries and the open cerpted in "The Environ­sea. . .The obvious compari­mental Handbook" prepared son is with Rachael Carson's for the First National Envi­Silent Spring, and I can only ronment Teach-In. His latest hope Mr. Marx's book will be book is part of the Man and as widely read and have con­Environment Series and is en-siderable impact." 
~.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:=:~:~:~:~:~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~: 
!!!! ·n Combined Class Council !~~~ ~.(.~~.::.~ Any a pos1t10n
ND Junior wanting to apply for on 
:_f.l.l.: 

the class council should submit his name and address to Greg Stepic, 313 Badin, or to Jim Strom or Dan McGrogan, 334 Holy Cross. Any St. Mary's Jur.ior should get a petition from Sue Way, 358 Le Mans, Wednesday, Sept. 23 and return it with 60 signatures by Monday (a St. Mary's Junior may sign 3 peti-
The Blue Circle and The Class of '71 Presents 
Turkey Day in California 
1970 STU !lENT TRIP TO SOUTHERN CAl. GAME 
. Roundtrip Jet from South Bend to LA. . California Sun and Fur. . Transportation to and from game . 4 days and 4 nights in L.A. . Motel (oceanfront accommodations) . Game ticket 
Full price $231 Sign-ups coming soon For information call: Bill Schmidt 1295 Mike Corrigan 232·0893 
! 4:30 PM Tues. Sept:. 22 ! 
WANTID: 

: FIESTA LOUNGE :
L..q_1 nnd M ~"' ltn·i 1id(.t·t~ 
! 3rd flaM LAFGITUN~E !
Call 232-0368 
. 

. ~
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••o•••••••• 
MARDI GRAS '71 
Chairmen are still needed to fill 
the following positions: CARNIVA~ CHAIIIMAN SIIC CHA..IAN PUAICITY CHAIRMAN RAFFLE CHAJIIMAN 
KICKOFF PARTY CHAIRMAN 
APPLY lrJ PERSON OR SEND A LETTER OF INTEA:EST TO: Room 313 Badin Fl9 Any questions call Greg 6967 

Tuesday, September 22, 1970 
Page 4 


Irish booters win first, tie second 
Led by the fine play of of Wiswnsin 4-2 Saturday be­against St. Norbert's but the Hugh Shoemaker and Tom hind Stepan Center and visitors bounced back to M ak.ielski the Notre Dame battled to a scoreless tie with 
notch a goal of their own in soccer club notched a win the U. of Wisconsin, Parkside, 
the second quarter and the score was knotted 1-1 atand a tie in their first week­Sunday at Stepan. end of play. The Irish, with Shoemaker booted the first 
half-time. Tom Shriver put the Irish
Shoemaker scoring two goals, Irish goal of the season in 
defeated St. Norbert's College the first quarter of play ahead for good in the third quarter, scoring on a ten yard shot from the middle, after taking a pass from Chris Han-
Voices from the crowd 
1on,  and  Shoemaker  upped 
Editor Ever since Notre Dame tied Michigan State 10-10 in 1966, it has been the habit of coaches to mock Ara for playing for ties instead of wins. Last year, John McKay of USC joined this bandwagon of coaches after the Irish tied up the game at 14-14 with  discuss the hypocnsy ot Coach John McKay. To risk the two-point conversion with a little over six minutes to play would have been asinine. Y~u should go for the sure tie first, and then, play for the win within the· upcoming six minutes. Both McKay and Parseghian  Notre Dame's advantage to 3-1 by tallying an unassisted goal later in the quarter. St. Nor­bert's kept the pressure on however, scoring before the third stanza ended and cutting the Irish leadto 3-2. Hanlon put the game away for the Irish by heading in an insurance goal in the final 

just over six minutes left in are great college coaches and t~e game. McKay claimed that great coaches often respond he himself would have gone 
to the same situation alike. for the two-point conversion McKay's decision to go for in an effort to win. Now last the one-point conversion was Saturday, USC faced the same 
a good one, one which Ara situation against Nebraska would have made. But while when, after trailing 21-14, 
both are great coaches on the they scored a touchdown with field, off thefield at least Ara just over six minutes to play. keeps his mocking commentar­Then USC followed up with a 
ies to himself and away from one-point conversion to tie the press. Because McKay 
the game. Why? Wasn't it just wrongfully shot his mouth off 1 ast season that this same last year, he was caught in an coach claimed he would go embarrassing act of hypocrisy for the win in the same sit­
last Saturday. uation? Yes, it is the same Jim Diette coach who acted just like Ara 
126 Keenan Hall did last year. Editor's Note: Point well My argument is not that he taken. McKay did the same is another one who plays for 
thing even earlier when USC ties because I think he would and ND played to a 21-21 tie 
have been crazy not to do with SC scoring in the mid­so. I am writing this letter to 
-fourth quarter. 
It ha~ b~n 
FOUR 
YEARS 
~I •OCt" 
N otrt" Damt" haf' bt"att"n a Boilt"rmakt"r 
tt"am. 

Big Ten has rough week 
CHICAGO (UPI) -Three of 
Boilermaker victory over Tex­

Arizona was "very good orthe Big Ten football teams as Christian, was among injries we have a lot of work toopened their fall schedules as coach Bob DeMoss put his do," after Michigan's 20-9 winSaturday with victories, in­players through limited drills over Arizona.
cluding the first Illinois win 

Monday. Schembechler said he "feltin II games. 
Clayton was joined by like a sophomore playing hislllini coach Jim Valek had tackle Paul DeNucio and Cen­first game."
to reevaluate sophomore 

ter George Buchanan in the· 
Notre Dame has "got it a­
quarterback Mike Wells, 

injured listing. Already side­gain" with the Irish 35-14 de­judged not good enough to 
lined were end Ashley Bell 

feat of Northwestern, saidstart, after Wells accounted 
and fullbacks John Bullock 

coach Alex Agase.
for all the lllini points in a and John Corcoran. DeMoss 

"They've got spectacularsaid he hoped all but Buch­20-16 upset over Oregon. 
passing," Agase said of the 1-.
Purdue swamped Texas 
anan would be healthy for

Christian, 15-0, led by a· rish, "and a bread and butter 
Saturday's traditional contest

nother sophomore, Chuck Pie· power football ground game. I 
against Notre Dame. 

don't think they'll beat them­However, Purdue lost Buch­bcs. The Boilermakers' first 
year coach, Bob DeMoss, selves." 
anan for the season. The

praised the team defense and Ara Parseghian was modest 
Harristburg, Pa. junior, und~r­

the performance of Piebes. about the Irish, calling their 
went knee surgery Monday.

"He made some mistakes work "a little spotty." but he also made some great Michigan coach Bo Schem­"We did some good things calls," DeMoss said. 
bechler, on his first return to and when we were real good active coaching since a heart and sharp, some of themRunning back Scott Clay­attack on the eve of last pleased me," Parseghian said.
ton, who scored both Purdue 

year's Rose Bowl, said either "We've still got a Jot of work
touch-downs in the 15-0 
to do, but when we get it together I think we could have a real solid club."
MAJOR LEAGUES 
About his own team, Agase said, "I saw enough that I 
AMERICAN LEAGUE

NATIONAL LEAGUE still think if we can put it all together we're going to be all
w L Pet. GBEast w L Pet. GB East 

right."
Baltimore 98 54 .645
Pittsburgh 82 70 .539 
Coach Johnny Pont of In­

72 .526 2 New York 86 67 .562 1214 diana attributed the Hoosier's
Chicago 80 

New York 79 74 .516 3% Boston 80 73 .523 18% St. Louis 72 81 .471 
lOY:. Detroit 76 76 .500 2214 16-lJ loss to Colorado to his Philadelphia 70 83 .458 12% Cleveland 74 79 .484 24% club's inexperience . Washington 70 81 .464 27%
Montreal 67 85 .441 15 "We just have to eliminate '/ mistakes that a young learn 
WestWest 

will make," Pont said. "We 
.623 Minnesota 92 60 .605
Cincinnati 96 58 

just have to eliminate our
84 69 .549 BY.

Los Angeles 83 69 .546 12 Oakland 
California 72 .526 12 mistakes and this will come
San Fran. 82 70 .539 13 80 
74 80 .481 22 Kansas City 59 91 .393 32 with experience."
Atlanta Houston 72 80 .474 23 Milwaukee 59 93 .388 33 Oklahoma defeated Wiscon­San Diego 59 94 .386 36% Chicago 53 96 .356 37% sin, 20-7. Missouri trounced Minnesota, 35-12, Oregon Houston at Cincinnati, night Minnesota at Oakland Stale downed Iowa, 21-14, San Francisco at Los Angeles, night California at Milwaukee 
and Washington beat Michigan
Washington at New York 

State 42-16 in other games.
Detroit at Baltimore 
Defending champion Ohio
Kansas City at Chicago (2) 

Stale does not play until next
Cleveland at Boston 
weekend. 

quarter. Jack Goldkamp and two five minute overtimes picked up his second assist of 
before the game was called the game on Hanlon's goal. 
with neither team on the Irish goalie Makielski was 
scoreboard. 
credited with 12 saves in the 

Aiding Makielski with some game but wasn't pressured 
fine defensive play were full­much as his teammates out­backs Rick Coleman, Jim shot St. Norbert's by a 41-14 
Patton, and Bruce Gra,ves. margin. Sunday, Makielski really The soccer club has one shone, turning in 90 minutes game slatet! for this weekend, of shutout play in his net. entertaining the Boilermakers The Irish and Wisconsin Park­of Purdue Saturday at 10 side battled through 80 o'clock behind Stephan minutes of regulation play Center. 
Jim Donaldson;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::~:::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::;:::;:; 
Sport Shorts 
My roommates and I had a fine weekend. We had journeye~ 
to Evanston to watch Ara 's lads romp to a season opening 
triumph and had celebrated the win at a mixer at Barat 
College. We returned to our hall at 5 a.m. (I still feel bad 
about waking up the security guard) and managed to catch a 
few hours sleep before tuning. in "The NFL Today" and three 
consecutive games. When the Football Scoreboard faded from 
the screen and there wasn't even a roller derby match to be 
found on the tube we were at a loss for things to do. 
Certainly studying was not an appropriate course of action an~ 
we were left to discussing the weekend in the world of 
sports. Out of this discussion came the following astute (?) observations. 
Several "armchair quarterbacks" seemed to think Theismann 
called Gatewood's number too often Saturday. When your top 
receiver is open, why throw elsewhere? 
Although Gatewood had just recovered from the flu, he 
made the Northwestern defenders look mighty sick. 
Denny Gutowski won't forget the first play of his varsity 
career. The first time the powerful back from Hobart, Ind., 
carried the ball for the Irish he was injured and had to be 
carried from the field on a stretcher. 
Ponder this -Ever notice that the Vikings always wear 
horns? 

I wish someone would explain to me why the Big. Ten 
ruled that the Northwestern game, which wasn't sold out and 
drew just · over 50,000 people. was· televised, whiie we will 
haw to go to the Convo to watch the Michigan State Game 
which is sold out and will draw 90-plus thousand. 
Those of you watching on TV Saturday afternoon missed a 
fine defensive show by Clarence Ellis. The Irish All-American 
candidate handled touted Wildcat receiver Barry Pearson with 
ease. r 
You also didn't get to see new cheerleaders Carol Cullen 
and Rooney Frailey. They made a routine second )lalf much 
more pleasant. 

Any doubts Irish fans may have had about the abilities of 
the offensive line should be erased after Saturday's fine show­
ing. Newcomers Dan Novakov, Mike Martin, John Dampeer and 
Mike Creaney and veteran Gary Kos looked sharp. 
Larry DiNardo's in a class by himself. He opened some 
holes in the Wildcat defense that the shuttle bus could have 
driven through. 

I've seen Theismann look better in the passing department 
than he did against Northwestern, but any quarterback who 
directs his team on touchdown marches of 75, 75, 71, and 70 
yards is certainly getting his job done. 
On the eve of the first home game one of the big questions 
being asked on campus is "Who's going to replace Tom Allen 
as the Stripper?" Now that boy had great moves. 
I may be wrong but 1 think an awful lot of people are 
going to want a fieldhouse rally Friday night. And anyone 
who thinks the large block of stone in the building is going 
to stop things has never seen a fieldhou<;e rally. 
Will the Vikings carve Ara's likeness into the hunk of rock? 
It looks like Purdue's "quarterback well'' has finally run 
dry. Chuck Piebes had just 55 yards passing against TCU, 
hardly in the Griese-Phipps tradition. 
I'd take the vengeful Irish by three touchdowns in the 
home opener against the Boilermakers. NOBODY beats Notre 
D~tme four straight times. 

In the pro circuit, the weekend saw one of the truly odd 
occurences of our time. Both the Patriots and the Bears won. 
The Pack is back -back to the days of 1958 and humilia­
tion on the field. 

The Amazing Mets seem to have run out of miracles, after 
dropping 3. of 4 to the Pirates last weekend. 
The Cubs are staying close -wouidn't it be great to sec 
Ernie Banks in a World Series? 
I really don't see why there's such a big fuss over the NL 
East race though. Does it really make that much difference 
which team is crushed by the Big Red Machine? 




