
•VOL. IV, No. 89 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community FRIDAY, MARCH 6. 1970 

•
Candidates close 1n campus count 
by Glen Corso 
this may be due to the fact that while those going for Krashna down the middle giving '38% of
Observer News Editor 
Tom Thrashh 29% 
his exposure has been limited to arc on the South quad. its vote to each of the candi­and Floyd Kezele Dave_Krashna 30% 
the two days of the campaign. Heavily pro-Thrasher halls dates. Peterson's largest vote Pete.Peterson 3% Tis poll was taken one day after include, Breen-Phillips, Stanford, carne in Zahrn where he garnered 
The first Observer poll for the 1970 student body president Undecided 38% the campaign started with the Grace, Zahrn and Fisher. Those 4% of the total vote cast.· election shows the two leading This year's first poll, unlike number of people a candidate giving a healthy majority to 
Supporters of both candidates
las( no sharp can see is limited by time, so it is Flanner,
contenders, Tom Thrasher and shows clevage Krashna were Pang­made several remarks pertaining
except among the junior class. possible that Peterson will show born, Alumni and Morrissey.
Dave Krashna neck and neck, to the reasons for supportingwith approximately 30% of the The figures show Thrasher lead­an upswing by the next poll. The rest of the halls on campus who they did. A freshman,
vote each. Pete Peterson, the ing slightly among the freshmen, A hall by hall breakdown, were split fairly evenly, giving a only other candidate mentioned, and picking up sharply with the interestingly enough, virtually all small majority to one candidate indicating he would vote for 
Thrasher, said "I admired his 
runs distant third with 3% of the sophomores, while Krashna the halls that are heavily pro­or the other. Cavanaugh however vote. However, 42% of the takes his largest and only lead Thrasher are in the North Quad, was the exception. It split evenly (continued on page 6) student body is still undecided. among the juniors. Thrasher 
In each hall, sixteen students, though, regains his lost ground with equal amounts of freshmen, among the seniors. sophomore, juniors and senior The vote by classes is: 
class members, were polled. The Fr. So. Jr. Sr. 
vote from each poll was then % % % %weighted using the percen­Thrasher 31 35 24 34 tage of total campus residents Krashna 26 24 39 27contained in the hall. In this way Peterson 5 6 2 3the poll was made as accurate as Undecided 38 39 31 36possible. 
Although Peterson is farThe figures for the total behind Thrasher and Krashna,
campus vote are: 
Krashna outlines reform Students future viewed 
by John Papa believe that the student is not 
Dave Krashna, SBP candidate, only ready · to learn how to expressed the specific goals of function as a 1970 adult, but his platform last night while in that many students are begging 
caucus with his campaign mana­to be taught. The question is, gers. lie explained that he and how do you teach them?" he 
his running-mate, Mark Winings, stated. 
decided the campaign issues have "First the curriculum must be 
been dealt with "only superfici­changed to fill these various 
ally." They felt it was about needs. The faculty must be given 
time the st udcnts were given the opportunity to come out of 
"facts instead of generalities." their 9 to 5 existence and more 
"The basic responsibility of fully into the community to Tom Thrasher called for coeducation and presented his plan to make it work last night our university is to prepare help make changes. We must get 
Thrasher platform 
students to be adults in the the movement for work/study world of the 1970's. This prepar­programs into full swing. The ation goes beyond merely fulfill­rigidity of our present system of ing academic requirements entit­requirements should be replaced 


Coeducation tq be sought
a

ling the student to a degree that with more flexible concept of 6y Steve Hoffman appraise the impact of coeduca-reco,mmended that the presentadvisor recommendations.
he may present to an employer tion on the students." C<_>-Ex. program be e~pandedafter graduation. Each student is Identifying coeducation as At the same time that Student w.tth mcreased ernphasts upon"By focwsing the energy of
going to be more than a one of the foremost concerns dtalogue, and the general female job-holder. He will be a citizen, a interested faculty and students facing Notre Dame, Student Government works towards influence in class discussion. 
Christian, a family member, a on the academic aspect of our Body President candidate Torn fulfilling these functions, Thrasher also advocated the member of the world communi­university life we can begin work Thrasher stated last evening Thrasher warned that smaller, exchange of dining hall privilegesunheralded issues, related to thety-and he will have responsibili­that: "Student Government can
(continued on page 2) for Notre Dame and St. Mary's
problems of coeducation, cannotties in all these capacities. We and must take action to bring students in order to promote abe ignored. 
about a smooth and quick more genuine, informal atmo­Specifically, Thrasher called
transition to coeducation." 
sphere between the two schools.
for "the exploration of a possi­
Thrasher spoke with students Regarding the immediacy of
ble merger of the ·Notre Dame­
in Zahrn Hall, and elaborated coeducation for Notre Dame,
St. Mary's student governments
upon several points contained Thrasher called for prompt and 
to eliminate duplication of
within his position paper on decisive action by Studenteffort, and to increase the
coeducation distributed yester­Government, and revealed two overall effectiveness of both
day. He contended that Student precise methods for the intro­groups.
Government must shoulder the duction of coeducation. 
As to improving the present
responsibilities toward coeduca­He identified as "reasonable situation, Thrasher urged that
tion, and outlined three basic and attainable" the "establish­the shuttle bus financial crisis be 
functions appropriate to the ment of an allgirls dorm on the 
resolved without arbitrarily
implementation of coeducation. Notre Dame campus by the fall "Initially, Student Govern­taxing the students. Further, he (continued on page 3) ment must accurately assess student opinion on the issue, guaging the specific implications 
Peterson shows plans
coeducation carries to the 
by Pat Dermody hours. When questioned on how
majority of the students," 
this would better services, theThrasher said. Student Body President candi­candidate replied, "It would"Secondly, Student Govern­date Pete Peterson placed parti­lengthen operating hours toment must open up bargaining cular emphasis on reconstruction 12:00 p.m. on weekdays andwith the Administration on a of food services, administrative possibly to 2:00 a.m. on week­firm commitment to coeduca­difficulties and psychological aid ends, thus providing the students
tion. It is also the function of to students Thursday evening with better all around service
Student Government to impress while revealing more details of the Board of Trustees with the his campaign plan. and ma_king the Huddle a por­tion of the student center.
need to introduce into the Peterson contends that recon­
coeducation process an outside struction of campus food cen­
He also commented on the Half-Way House saying, "The
professional agency to map out ters is needed at this time. The 'an impartial study of the issue. Huddle, according to Peterson, facility could become useful if turned over to Student Govrrn-
This agency could study the should be managed by students, 


Dave Krashna expounds on his platform. problem, gather facts, and . thus allowing for longer service (continued on page 3) 


PAGE 2· 7lf£ ()~~----------------------------~FR~I~D~AY~·~M~A~R~C_H~6,~1_9__ 
Mag Wheels runs 'In Abstention' SBP ticket 



by Shawn Hill 
Promising "16 Magazine in the huddle, more basketball facilities, a psychedelic rocka­rocka discotheque on campus, and a pickle in every bag," candidates Magnesium B. Wheels (alias John MaGuire) and Woody (John Kuhn) began their cam­paign yesterday. Presidential candidate Magnesium Wheels said that he and Woody decided 
to  run  for  the office  "To get  
enough votes to win."  
Vice-presidential  hopeful  

Woody briefly outlined their platform. As architecture stu­dents both he and Magnesium B. will spend next year in Rome, so he said they are running on the "In Abstentia" platform. 
"We feel we can get a better perspective on the University and its problems by spending next year in Rome, Italy, and establishing better communica­tions and things like that," said Woody. 
Presidential candidate Wheels stated the major issues under their platform. According to Wheels, these are "the establish­ment of a Christian Community, better communication, meaning­ful dialogue between all mem­bers of the University communi-
TO OUR 


ADV£RT...._, 
Deadlines for display ad­vertising is 48 hours prior the date of publica­
tion. 
Copy may be brought in any time up to 2:30 the day 
ty, Hall autonomy, and anything else to get the student's vote. 
"We hope to keep our plat­form as moth eaten and mun­dane as those of other candi­dates, a difficult task indeed!" concluded Wheels. 
Concerning his stand on the pertinent issues of University life (coeducation, campus recruiting, black studies, etc.), Wheels re­plied, "We'll cross that brid~e when we come to it." Wheels dtd take a stand on some issues though. Regarding the drug problem on campus recently uncovered by Arthur Pears, Wheels said that "I am in favor of it." To remedy the destruc­tion of the grass on the quads by students Wheels planned •o 'plant as much grass as possible this spring." 
When asked what he thought of the performance of the present administration, V.P. can­didate Woody stated that "I never did like Richard Nixon." 
Wheels and Woody haven't been too active campaigning so 

ExplainSLC inaction 
by Dennis McCoy Last night, seven of the eight SLC student representatives released a statement explaining the reason that apparently very little had been accomplished this year. The remaining student, Guy DeSapio issued an append­ed statement of his own. Following the release, four of the members gave their particu­lar sentiments on the statement. The students commenting, SBVP Fred Dedrick, Rich Meckel. Ed Roickle and DeSapio all agteed that the main thrust of 

Friday: 

only 

Playing Songs from their Album 
Saturday: 



only AMERICA'S STOP 
Sensational 8 Piece Band 
FLANNER 

HALL BASEMENT 
Friday, March 6 First Act 8:30 Saturday, March 7 Admission $1.00 
far. The presidential candidate has been reluctant to campaign because his mom hasn't sent him his three piece suit yet. He has, however; purchased a pipe and has been using it nightly. Wheels 
said that as soon as the suit 
arrives he and Woody will start 
their campaign by kissing babies 
on the main quad. 
Wheels believes that his party 
offers the students of this 
university everything anyone 
else does and promises any 
reform or restructuring of stu­
dent government that is needed. 
Woody stated that they may restructure their campaign at anytime in the future so as to appeal to as many segments of the student body as possible. They felt that this is as much an elaboration as they could make at the present time but promised a fuller explanation of their purpose and goals as the election proceeds. 
According to the two candi­dates., they offer a definite challenge to the other candidates in the election and any vote for 
garnering student interest jn Monday's meeting when what they considered the most impor­tant Issue of the year would be discussed. Fr. Edgar Whelan's report to the Trustees. They all hoped that a sizeable part of the student body would attend. Whelan's report is on the state of hall life at Notre Dame. 
There was, however, dissent registered by Guy r:eSapio con­cerning some of the particular issues that were mentioned in the letter. 
"I agree with the letter in the fact that Fr. Whelan's report is one of the most significant documents we will be dealing with and students should be there to hear the discussion about it," he said. "However, the letter itself raises a number of other points, overstating and oversimplifying a number of issues which I do not feel can be treated as summarily as the letter does. Therefore I decided not to sign the letter and to add my own appendix to the letter." The other three representa­tives felt that they had been forced to issue the statement at this time because the history of the SLC has seemed to demon­strate to them that there was no alternative to strong student 
(continued on page 7) 


FIRST FRIDAY 
their party will be a clear indication of campus sentiment on student elections. 
Candidate Woody said that if" student reaction to their cam­paign was unfavorable and a loss 
The following is a statement issued yesterday by seven of the student meml)ers of the SLC. It is followed by a statement by the eighth member Guy DeSapio. 
Fellow Students: 
After almost a full year as your representatives on the Stu­dent Life Council we feel a need to express our growing impa­tience with the pace, attitude and structure of this body. 
The frustratingly slow move­ment of the council is basically caused by the lack of prepara­tion and interest on the part of some members and the limited amount of time set aside for meetings. The first problem revolves around the composition of the body. Both faculty and Administration representatives find it difficult to spend the necessary time to understand student problems. Their separa­tion from the daily living experience of the student presents problems of communi­cation which are not simply eliminated by listening to the complaints of students one day a week. those representatives unfamiliar with the present life 
style of the hall must be more willing to go into the dorms and find out what conditions are really like. They must be more willing to talk to the leaders of the hall governments in order to be aware of what these students see as the main problems of hall life. An attempt at doing just this took place before Christmas vacation. Unfortunately only 16 of the 24 members were present and six of these were students. The second difficulty centers 
Urgf!s student dialogue 
(continued from page 1) 
on ideas that have been left stagnant for years, or whose growth has been slowed. 
"But to do any of these things effectively we must first make some basic changes within our community and this requires an ability to change." 
Continuing he de~lared, "Our solution to the problem of communication -is to first create the opportunity for every stu­dent to be heard-not only once a year at elections, but week by week through the Student For­um-which will meet in halls on a rotating basis or at an easily accessible location. Next we wish to bring the Board of Trustees and the administration 
1tc tll\lt.;, 1 11\1 ;, 1en cui' 
TEAC, ALTEC, 
LANSING, JVC Color TV sets ' /VC 

ZOSS PRODUCTION Call 232·2804 
The Observer Is .published daily during the college semester except vacations by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from the Observer, Box 11, Notre Ind., 46556. Second class postage 
closer to student problems and opinions by utilizing the Univer­sity Forum as a common meet­ing place for all the grou~:s within our community. Here, Ill an atmosphere of total responsi­
bility and honest communica­tion we can begin the job of • 
catching up. Here we can reach 
consensus on direction and 
priorities. HeHere we can chan­
nel energy effectively, view mon­
etary realities, see clearly that 
faculty, administration and stu­
dents are truly interested. 
"Our student body-apathe­tic our faculty-reserved, our tr~stees-aloof. They need only the opportunity to be unapathe­tic, unreserved, and unaloof. Together we can then enable Notre Dame to become a com­munity that contributes, a com­munity that communicates, and a community that grows and changes comfortably," Krashna said. 
looked imminent he would "kill the sun god" this Saturday afternoon. If they do win the 
election  the  first  thing Wheels  
plans  to  do  as  president  lis  
demand a recount.  

on the limited amount of time for meetings. The signers feel it is imperative to revise the meeting schedule so as to pro­vide the necessary time for in depth discussions on significant questions of student life. Con­trary to comments by some people, the SLC spends at least 95% of its time talking about issues directly related to student -life. Any . insinuation that we would even consider a topic completely unrelated to student life is nothing less than paranoia. 
Thes attitude of the Council also presents difficulties. Primar­ily it is an inability to sense the students feelings of urgency about many matters discussed before the Council. Again we 
. run into the problem of people willing to be patient because they are sitting on a body whose jurisdiction does not directly affect their daily living. -Perhaps if students comprised 50% of the body there would be greater sense of urgency. 
The second attitude which presents difficulties is the feeling of many of the members that the SLC should never pass 
, legislation which might not be approved by the President or the Board of Trustees. Rather than dealing with an issue on its merits it prefers to take the expedient route and thus begins 
the compromising one step earlier. Finally, there is the structure 
and powers of the SLC. The only power this body has it that of recommendation to the appropriate administrative offi­cial.· There is no set time limit in 
(continued on page! 6) 






SLC statements 
Plenty ofFood and Drink Available 



be sold only to those Juniors migration to tht United States. program. who have guests over the week-Unfortunately, this occurred at When asked if the mob is end. the same time as Prohibition," 
involved in horse racing, Kennel­According to D' Aurora, no Kennelly said. ty commented, "Yes, the mob Junior will be allowed to buy According to Kennelly, Char­fixes horse races. They fix the 
EUROPE $~2.9 
more discount tickets than the les "Lucky" Luciano pulled ,the horses, they fix the jockeys and 
iJqpe 24 to A,...;t. is -s _.. number of his guests. separate families together into whatever else needs to be fixed." 
Detroi~/~on(Qiilroit . __ Previously, D' Aurora, who re-.-------------------------------1 
RO_UND TRIP JET 
vealed that tickets will be sold in 
N.B. -ltut ,..,...., &7 M.,.h Jl ­
Student Art Gallery 
U11iversiiYCJeai1i/TlJiff ..,.._, t::llllltW rnpt Selie•
the Blue and Gold room of 
...................-...-~~ 
'
LaFortune Student Center, had 
Hours: Friday 3-5, 7-9 
...-stop Jet ~=::;::'.:..-"'""' -..
said that an unrestricted number 
peo bot aNI co,.,.l•l• _,, '-. , '
Sat., Sunday 1-5
of discount tickets to the March 
letroil <lepatluru '""" oeer•ll}l ,_,,., .4~ ....,, _, _ ..,.,..._ 
....."""ch--. ,....,..........
14 concert could be sold. 
Fieldhouse Boxing Room 
50 Mpoll!, Ji.W fJfiY•mot ift Marcil c-ccr.._., _..,.­t~~~cellatiole privil.,e• until day of cNprartu~ Trewe~_.·. a...e o.-plet• _,. t>ftravel servicu ----.
FOLK and CLASSIC 
A L_..olllc.tiO ...-..yCN
This SaturdctY 
A wlft ......t flllht• ta chao-'-"
GUITARS 
Ow Ann Artlor emce can t.e.1t ,... ,.,.. •blllleflt ,nctllll ._..,. _,.,. rou ,..,..,. ' 
•4 4M' u.den etnce wtll htok •ft• e&l ,_.. ..... while,.._. ..'" ......._ 
Good selection of 
Opm .,.,y ro N<ilr•-iitiii• -St. MMY'• stud":"•· faculty-:-; atalf tmd i.....ediau famili•;



AMERICA'S 
$50 D11f10$1t R_._ Serta
strings and music 
Phaneor~llt: 
II• ...,;, c.lllt
••0..Sllllllt lim• c-111111 or · ·


STOP 
E. Lafortune Student Center St. Mary's Student Serviett 13·7757 Oiiiuizatlon
Stop$ At
a~uJ#jMg~~€ 
209 No. Main St. 


AMERICA 8:30 
FRIDAY,MARCH6,1970 

ment and placed in the hands of a professional semi-retired res­taurant operator." Peterson at the same time attacked the failure of the Half-way house, saying it had been "mismanaged hy the administration" in pre­vious years. 
Calling for improvement ·of campus psychological services, Peterson contended that it is necessary to provide those in need, primarily drug users, with advice from "those who have used drugs--former addicts­those who know how to talk 
people off bad trips, therefore, maKtng tne sLUuenrs more aware of the dangers of drugs and providing them with a ground on which to leave their evil habits." 
Candidate Peterson contends that "the ultimate decision to drink, fornicate, or take drugs should be left to the individual student." 
Peterson when questioned 

regarding his "dark horse" candi­
dacy responded: "definitely Mr. 
Baruth and I are dark horses, but 
nonetheless, we've been working· 
very hard and have been doing 
real well these past days. I 
Discount tickets 
Junior Parent's Son Weekend Chairman Jim D'Aurora an­nounced that discount tickets to Saturday's Fifth Dimension will 
PAGE :J 

Lo~d seeks student power 
by Ed Ellis  round here are our main gripe."  improve the food service, simply  
Lord,  an  ecOI'IOmics  major,  for  economic  reasons.  Lord  
Student  Body  Presidential  contended  that he has used his  stated that the laundry system is  
candidate  Joe  Lord  and  his  academaic background to seek a  "a  corporation's  dream,  a  set  
running  mate  Larry Lange  last  new perspective of Notre Dame.  number  of  regular  customers  
night called for maximum use of  He states that Notre Dame is a  who  are  staggered  throughout 
student  power,  specifically  "corporation" that has a mono­ the week."  Lord  saw  no reason  
strikes and boycotts, in order to  poly  on  campus, and  "in  some  why  the laundry shouldn't give 
secured  for the students "the  places it's obvious they're abus­ discounts  or  "at  least  decent  
things  that  count"  including  ing it. Campus monopolies rook  service."  
reform  of  the  bookstore,  the  the students and they should rise  '  
laundry, the dining halls, off­campus housing and security. The candidate emphasized that they were trying to repre­sent the common student, not the "junior-politico" or the "elite group of philosophers who have run student government for the last three years." He stated, "Life around here is inherently more abrasive thart  up against it." Lord argued if the University is seen as a corpora­tion, the students then are a union. In order to destroy the alleged abusement of the "mon­opoly" the candidate feels he should use union tactics, such as strikes Uild boycotts. Specifically, Lord and Lange feel a Student Government-led boycott of the dining halls  The bookstore was also the subject of heavy criticism by Lord because of what he con­tended were markups on various books, and the policy of buying back used textbooks for 25% regardless of their condition. Lord contends the SBP should use his power and influence to boycott the bookstore.  
anyplace  else.  The  services  a- would  force  the  University  to  Lord said that his only experi­ 
ence with security was when his  
Thrasher on co-ed  c.ar was broken !into by security police. However, he considers  
this enough to  register a  comp­ 
(continued from page I)  laint.  "Improvements  must  be  
made on this kind of thing."  
of I 971. If this plan is a success,  j:>ULJ~!~~ntly  has  neither  the  The  candidates also  contend  
the  establishment  of  a  coed  plans  nor  th-e  money  to  buiJ(l  that  the  University  is  misusing·  
dorm,  possibly Planner, Grace,  Thrasher stated  that St. Mary's  its  monopoly  on  housing  by  
ox:  Fisher,  would  occur  the  inability  to  expand,  coupled  refusing  juniors  permission  to  
believe we pose a great tlfreat  following fall."  with the desire of a large number  move off campus. They want to  
and  have  a  good  chance  of  Thrasher additionally explain­ of Notre Dame students to move  change this policy but believe it  
winning  if  we ~carry  on  as  we  ed that St. Mary's is committed  off-campus would work toward  will not come quickly.  

have." to incr~ase its facilities by 1975, the realization of his goals. 
JOBSI JO.BSI and more J08Sf S.... 1dents, TNchers. Shlteslcle and I~· Nltlonal JObs. Reci"Ntlo,..l .JobtJ VNr-round Jobl1 Summw Jobs. Atil
Kennelly lecture uncovers Mafia 
~u.,.tlons and trades. EnJoy 1 va 
tlon while you Nrn. Hurry! The JObs.,. hlken Nrly. Write• "JOBS•, 
P.O. Box 475, Dept. cP 1453-1. LOCII,'
c.Mf. 95240· .
Loan sharking and hard

by Mike Chapin 
one group in 1931. It was not cotics account for anotheauntil 1963 that Joe Valachi

"There was me, Zip, and million dollars in revenue,
broke the code of silence and

Johnny Russell. So we took the nelly noted. 
gave the government their first 

guy out in the woods. I said, "We have had
direct information about the

'You got to go, Johnny, so you that the mob is
mob.

might as well take it in the The mob
"We learned from him that

heart'." This was one conversat­cocaine, however, in a big way,"
they call themselves the Cosa

ion by Mafia member, Ray he said. 
Nostra," Kennelly stated. 

DeCarlo, overheard by govern­Hijacking, waterfront robber­
Kennelly then explained the 

ment investigators and related ies, and theft of credit 
structure of the 24 Cosa Nostra

last night in a speech by Thomas provide other means of revenue 
groups in the United States
Kennelly in the library auditori­for the mob, Kennelly claimed.
today. On top is the "Capo," the 

um. The money is channelled into
boss. Next come his advisor, the

Kennelly, the Deputy Chief legitimate businesses. Big busi­
under boss, the captain, and the
U.S. Attorney General Against ness, previously thought to be
button men. The highest ruling
Organized Crime, said the Mafia immune to the Mafia, is now
body of the mob is the "Com­72 pages of color ... with a "whole 
originated in Italy and Sicily infiltrated with mob money new world" for pipe and cigar
mission." It is composed of
after the collapse of the Napoli­They now control banks, smokers. We'll include a "trial
members of only seven families. 
run" ofour famous3 Star Tobacco, 
anic government. Since there ance companies, realators, .•
The greatest source of re­~eel 
was no local government, the ities, and labor unions," he said 
venue, Kennelly said, was from
citizens hired local thugs to keep ·Kennelly emphasized,
illegal gambling. The. numbers
order. These men, Kennelly said, ever, that the governmentpolicy, the sports book,an·d the
often lived in "Mahvias", the making progress towards "''·'"''!:>I 
horse book combine to give the
Halian word for caves on the the Cosa Nostra. In the southern shores of Sicily. three years the number
Cosa Nostra over seven billion dollars in revenue every year, he 
Kennelly claimed that when convictions has been rising. Mussolini came into power, he stated. Kennelly pointed out mob in New England is began to execute these men. that this was more than twice power, he said. In New Jersey 17 SOUTH WABASH AVE. 
the money given to our poverty CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60603
"This is what started their however, it is a different story 

PAGE 4 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Editorial: 
Vote for Anne Marie Tracey 
St. Mary's election on Monday presents a unique situation to the student body with a sophomore running for the highest office in student government. We endorse this sophomore, Ann Marie Tracey, because we think her qualities would definitely be of great benefit to the students and whole community. • 
The platforms of the two candidates cover a great deal of identical issues. Both girls emphasize the freedom of the individual, the development of hall autonomy, academic freedom, and better dialogue between all facets of the community. It is obvious that there is no crucial issue at hand dividing the candidates into CQmpletely opposite positions. 
It therefore becomes a decision based on the candidate's personal 
qualities. We feel Ann Marie Tracey's leadership, her realistic attitudes toward the community, and her full awareness of the structure within which she will be working, all make her the best choice for next year's president. 
Miss Tracey stands out for her enthusiasm and ability to lead the student body. In her experience of two years in student government she introduced many student assembly bills. Her most recent one urged restructuring of the membership of the student assembly to make the assembly a more relevant body to the needs of the students. This demonstrates her qualities of foresight and her desire to move student government and the community into a more dynamic role. Her enthusiasm to do the work which will improve the situation at SMC and her detailed ideas of how she expects to accomplish these ends indicate she would be a successful president. 
Her realistic approach to the situation at SMC is very impressive and influences much of her platform. She does not mistake the student's involvement in her own individual interest as apathy. Miss Tracey realizes that everyone cannot participate or be actively concerned with student government because many students are involved very deeply in pursuing their own personal interest or activity. She urges efforts by student government to help all students to get involved in those things which interest them the most. We feel this realistic approach demonstrates an understanding of the situation which exists at SMC, and this is the first step toward being a good president. 
Miss Tracey is willing to deal with specific issues and has named practical problems which she hopes to eliminate. Her specific plans for hall autonomy, ensurance of student's right of privacy, and improved recreational facilities are all examples of her concrete ideas to improve life at SMC. She has an understanding of the feelings of all segments of the community, the students, faculty and administration. 
The candidate is aware of the structure that exists at SMC and she sees that certain committees in the structure have not lived up to their potential and have therefore not been overly successful in their accomplishments. Miss 
Tracey hopes to see that the Health Committee and the Student Development Committee play Jhe role they should at St. Mary's. She feels these committees can do mu'ch more than they have done in the past towards improving student life. 
In the area of academic reform, Miss Tracey has many farsighted ideas for the future. Again she has pointed out definite problems in the academic realm, many having to do with the co-education program as it exists now. For example, one problem which she hopes to eliminate is that of overlapping departments at SMC and ND which have caused problems for majors in many departments. She has cited problems with each of the departments at SMC. 
We applaud Miss Tracey's call for a definite statement of where SMC plans to go in the future and what goals the college has in mind. The identity of SMC has become increasingly nebulous to the students and should be clarified by the administration and the Board of Trustees. 
We therefore strongly endorse Ann Marie Tracey as our choice for SBP of SMC. We believe that the whole community will benefit from her leadership. 
Business Mgr.: Bruce Reick Ad. Mgr.: Bruce Barker Photography Editor: Mike Mur· phy
News Editor: Glen Corso Asst. News Editor: Steve 
Night Editor: T.C. Treanor Hoffman Layout: Mary Beth Crimmins, SMC News Editor: Prue Wear Dan Koppenhafer, Cliff Wintrode 
Associate Editors: ·Cliff Win· Headlines: Cliff Wintrode, Jim trode, Ann Cor.way, Jeanne Holsinger, Fred Guiffrida, Ed Sweeney Ellis 
Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Ad Layout: Steve Dollinger Proofreader: Bob FultonFeature Editor: Dave Stauffer Layout Design: Buz Craven 
The opinions expressed in the editorials, news analyses, and columns of The Observer are sole· ly those of the authors and edi· tors of The Observer and·do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administra­tions, faculty, or student bodies. 
FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1970 


Cliff Wintrode 

Psychological pollution 
Whodunits often fool readers because people nev·~r expect that the butler after all may not be the villan. Readers possess the untimely habit of seeing only the obvious and sometimes superficial causes of the crime. Pollution American style is the number one best selling whodunit this year, but people are thinking that the butler, American industry, is the' culprit. They have been fooled for the butler is only the obvious manifestation of the real, underlying culprits. Placing the blame on industry does not answer the alarming questions of why some industries feel no qualms about indiscriminately polluting our environment or even more disturbing why we have allowed and are still allowing these criminal practices to go on with impunity. The answers can be found in the values of our society that have propelled us to be the world's number one industrial giant but concurrently the number one spoiler. A careful examinati0n of these values reveals the necessary duality of them that almost mandates the current situation. 
It is foolish and potentially disastrous for people t~ blindly hope 
that any reversal of our steadily worsening state can be accomplished 
without first an objective analysis of our values and a commitment 
to change them as necessary. 

When a society such as ours has as its principal means of survival 
the quest to compete successfully, certain attitudes are inherently 
fostered by this system that are conducive to an increased chance of 
survival. It is unreasonable to assume or expect that these attitudes 
can be eliminated or changed without first changing the mode of 
survival. 

When a company's or an individual's security depends on the 
profit/loss ledger, any decision to institute pollution control 
measures understandably is concerned with the possible threat to the 
profits of the company or the financial stability of the individual. 
Govemment and citizens at all levels have expressed concern that 
any laws or any punitive action taken against offending groups can 
be equitably applied or not at all for fear of discriminating 
financially against a particular offender. 
Americans have always heeded the call to challenge and conquer 
new frontiers. They have also implicitly assumed that the number of 
new frontiers is limitless, but we must realize that there are no 
longer any new earthly frontiers and the time our remaining 
frontiers have left is limited. Our system is dependent upon 
inc eased production which necessarily involves the consumption of 
more and more of our natural resources. The union of increased 
production and our naive view of· unlimited horizons has produced 
almost complete disregard for the wise use of our natural resources 
except when financial penalties are threatened. 
Amencans are enjoying the benefits of a booming technological society that is providing them with more materialistic comforts than any society in the history of man. We have also acquired a seemingly unsatiable appetite for more and better gadgets to meet what we consider our "real needs." We are the impetus for increased production which forms a loop that comes around to our desires for more objects. The price we have paid for this .avarice is the overwhelming amount of litter and waste that chokes our land and sky and sea. 
However, our eventual demise if it occurs will be a result of our intransigence and our blindness to the necessity of change. We have been inculcated with the necessity and the "goodness" of competition to such a degree that we are apparently unable to consider other modes of operation. 
Many victims in whodunits are innocent victims who never knew why they were the targets, but the American people can make no such claim. The American people and American society are the whodunits of our pollution crises, but we are also the victims, and we cannot fool ourselves with that fact and survive. 

PAGE. 5 
FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1970 
They shoot myths, do they? 
by John Stupp 
Those of us who have never known hunger, never known despair, those of us too young to remember anything before 1950 let alone 1930, those of us who made our stage entrances after the 2nd Big War, grow-up in suburbs, nourished on instant milk and instant money, remember walking rather shame faced into Daddy's executive suite for the first time, remember nothing more than a mirage of white Christmases, and Uncle Harry's and Aunt Mary's, and "my how he's grown," and fashionable parochial grade schools and high schools, and colleges -rush hour on the American Dream expressway, always with the vague feeling that perhaps we were heading in a futile direction, never willing to admit it, feeding instead on cultural pap and illusions, but at least with some semblance of hope. 
They Shoot Horses, Don't They? is a portrayal of America upside down, the lean depression years when hope was a b<ftloon that burst. The joy and energy of the twenties gave way to the bitterness of the Thirties. The film is about bitterness. 
About futility. About people with no other goal in life than to merely survive. 
Epitaph: American Dream 1776-1930 
R.I.P. "Died with it's boots on." 
"Yousa, yousa, ladies and gentlemen, look at these gutty kids, dancing their hearts out for a grand prize of I ,500 dollars. Cheer 'em on, fight with 'em, root them on ... Yousa, Yousa." 
As the impresario of the marathon, Gig Young is tremendous. Wielding the magic power, the great manipulator, the con man, the side show barker, keeping up a running line of patter, packing the crowds in, urging the contestants on and on until 
they break, one by one. Surviving by selling misery, surviving because people will buy misery. Behind the scenes, away from the tuxedo spotlight glamor, he's just like every one else. Going nowhere, his face visibly aging as the film progresses. 
The setting, California in 1932. Right along the Pacific Coast (looking strangely like Long Island), the boardwalks, the gas lights, the bright and vivid honky-tonk marred by the depression scars, empty wine bottles, litter, the cheap glitter giving way to an ugly core beneath. Jane Fonda is one of the dancers. One of 

IUSB presents folk festival 
Two widely-known area radio per­formers specializing in folk and coun­try-western shows --WSBT's Dunny Sims and WNDU's Tom Mihail --will serve as masters of ceremonies for the Friday and Saturday (March 6 and 7) evening Folk Festival performances at Indiana University at South Bend. 
The shows will start at 8: 15 p.m. in the IUSB auditorium. 
Exhibits of folk art, crafts and foods will be on display starting at noon Satur­day in IUSB's Northside Hall. A series of Saturday afternoon workshops will be devoted to crafts and folk-music instru­ments. 
Tom Mihail will introduce the six acts in the Friday evening show, which will include guitar music by Biff and Shirley 
U D features party, concert this weekend 
Somebody called from the University 
of Dayton last night and invited anyone 
making the trip for the NCAAs to a party 
to be held after the UD-IIouston 
basketball game on Saturday evening. 
Believe it or not, the party is being held 
on the practice football field on the 
campus and will feature beer. 
Sunday at 8 p.m. at the UD fieldhouse 
there will be a concert, called the "UD 
Blues Festival." Featured performers will 
be B.B. King, Canned Heat, Argent 
(formerly the Zombies), and Tractor. 
Tickets will be on sale over the weekend 
for $3, $4, and $5. 
scores of girls come to Hollywood 
looking for a job, and finding none. 
Bitter. Going nowhere. 
Then there is the dance itself. A 
masterpiece of brutality and savagery hid 
beneath the mellow tones of The 
Musicmasters. While the soft strains of 
"Easy Come, Easy Go" fill the hall, the 
tinkling piano, the mellow voice, out on 
the floor the dancers are dancing a dance 
with no end. One by one they drop from 
physical and mental exhaustion. Some 
falling unconscious, others screaming 
insanity. The dream shot out from under 
them. The dance becomes a danse 
macabre, and the contestants dance to 
the death, on and on, 170 hours, 415 
hours, 900 continuous hours, 1400 hours 
and on and on. Without end. 
Michael Sarrazin is the innocent 
country boy, joining the dance at the last 
minute before it began. Filling in. 
Spending his whole life filling in. Filling 
in for Jane Fonda at the end. Riding with 
the waves of the ocean he loVed so well, 
but came to hate as it held him and 
wouldn't let go. Just following orders. 
The technical aspects are good. Slow-motion footage is used to good advantage during the frenetic "derby" sequence of the dance. Each muscle, each straining eyeball bulging movement slows down to lyrical beauty, a ballet to the death in fascinating slow motion. Hypnotising. Coupled with the incredible 
soundtrack, the mood is created to the Nth degree -the contrast between the action on the dance floor, and the sweet notes of the band, an~ the blank faces of the auditmce. The world within a world. The death within deaths. 
Susannah York is the English actrssess trying to get a Hollywood job, trying to be spotted by a Holywood talent agent. She goes away screaming insane under a dripping fountain, her eyes bulging wet in the shower room. The dance, the show is stronger than all the contestants. The show must go on. 
The lighting is superb in its multi-hues of reds, oranges, and yellows -creating a glorified basketball floor aura. Dissolves and color superimpositions come and go in lyrical rhythm, the giant golden ball spinning and reflecting a prism of colors in all directions. , 
Red Buttons is the sailor. Like the others, he's going nowhere. Like the others, he's after the prize money. A veteran of many dance marathons, the 
old pro, but too old for this one. The 

sailor joins the ocean that Sarrazin loved so well. "The doctors tell me it's just a case of heat prostration. Nothing serious folks. 
Let's all give the sailor a cheer, let's hear 
it audience, I'm sure the sailor will join us 
again..." 
The show goes on. 
The overall performances are good, 
with Gig Young's probably the best. Jane 
Fonda is good, but not excellent. Her 
bitterness sometimes appears awkward 
and forced, and she delivers the lines in 
that manner creating some 
embarrassing moments, but overlooking 
those few mistakes, she does a creditable 
job. s·arrazin, Buttons, Susannah York all 
complement a finely wrought film with 
quietly average performances -the 
teamwork is very close. 
The ending and the flash forwards mar 
an otherwise excellent film, and the 
validity of each (both artistically and 
content-wise) can be severely questioned. 
But since I don't want to reveal them 
here and spoil the show, let me just say 
that they are an attempt, and not a very 
good one at that, to pull all the loose 
strings together in a pretty bow. It 
doesn't work. 
The camera work is very good at times, especially when it roves on the dance floor in documentary fashion, methodically picking out the faces of dancers, moving in and out of focus as they whirl around before each other. The camera movement and the scene composition are very pretty in the beginning over the credits, as they follow a horse in flight over color-muted hills, then cutting hack and forth to the ocean in front of the dance hall, to Sarrazin, and then back to the horse again. Very nice. 
The film is an emotional experience, leaving you drained at the end, its two and a half hours arc a test of the viewer's endurance as well as that of the dancers. It's very powerful, very emotional ­leaving not a sense of anger like Easy Rider, but a sense of exhaustion and futility and wonder that such a film could be made, with so few major mistakes, a landmark of a film this year. The impact of the film enables one to overlook nearly all its flaws (which are mostly small). The ,show must go on. . ' At the STATE THEATER, 1:30,4:00, 6:30 and 9:00. 
"Yousa, yousa, yousa ... the derby!" Screaming hysteria. 
Galbraith of South Bend; American 
Eating Contest. 

round-dancing by the Roma-Rounds; 
Each year, coUege students are given one half hour to eat as many silver dollar 
ballads by Gwen Rector; European 
size pancakes as they can and the national winners receive an all-expense paid
dance tunes performed by the South 
trip to Europe. Local winners received a color television and each store winner 
Be.nd Recorder Society Consort; songs by 
received a tape recorder. 

Debbie Frasier with guitar accom­
The winning team this year at the International House of Pancakes located at 
paniment by Tim Blackburn, and old 
9355 S. Western in Chicago was Jim Graif and Patty Birmingham from Notre 
English ballads by Father Charles Hensel 
Dame and St. Mary's. They ate 340 pancakes (and knew it afterwards). Also 
of Gary, with self-accompaniment on 
competing from Notre Dame-St. Mary's was Pat O'Connor and Patty Lipscomb.
the dulcimer. Dunny Sims will be the master of Shown in the picture are two teams as they participate in this year's contest. ceremonies Saturday evening. That per­They ~tre not from ND-SMC. God knows where they're from. 
formance will include dances from Hun­gary, Bulgaria, Serbia, Yugoslavia and Croatia, performed by the Balkanske lngre dance company from the University of Chicago; ballads by· Melanie Mandich of South Bend; a Greek dance by Tom Mihail and a local dance group; music by the Blue Grass Gentlemen; Israeli dancing by the Hillel Dance Group from the University of Chicago, and a sitar per­formance by Tim McCarie, of South Bend. 
Saturday afternoon's bazaar, which will be open to the public without charge, will range from Greek food to "soul" cooking, from African art to metal sculp­ture, and from weaving to wool spinning. Nearly two dozen exhibits are planned. 
SMC Coffeehouse 
Sunday evening the SMC Coffee­house will present the Cotton Mathers Modern Jazz Quartet, Mike Kendall, John Gargl, Pat McManus, and Tom Breitendach. Time is from 8:30 -12, admission is 50 cents. 

One of history's oldest customs was brought to life Tuesday, February 10, at the International House of Pancakes. CoUege students from all over Chicago participated in the International House of Pancake's Shrove Tuesday Pancake 
PAGE 6 
TONIGHT 
-. --------~ 
the american scene. of edward a/bee 

WASHINGTON HALL at 8:30 Tickets $1.50 at the door 
.Congratulations 

From the Brothers of Chi Sigma Alpha fraternity of U. of Dayton for your NCAA bid to the Dayton Reglonals. We are organ­Izing a dance for students from competing schools on March 7, 
9:00 PM to 1:00 AM, Flyers' Hanger on the main camP!JS. Live band and beer. 
Admission $].50 


Phone 288-8488 

NOW SHOWING__ 
KATHARINE HEPBURN as 
The 

l'lliDWOlllliO ofGHlUUOT 
~~ 
CALL 288-8488 FOR INFORMATION ON 
GROUP RATES 
HELD­OVER! 


Students comment on SLC 
(ccJiitinued from page 2) 

which the person to whom the Another blatant example of plan for meeting the problems of recommendation is addressed the difficulties encountered in hall living. The SLC will discuss has to respond. Contrary to trying to get things accom­this important report at its next popular opinion, recommenda­plished is the experience of the meeting (Monday at 4:15 in the tions to Fr. Hesburgh do not Security Committee. Although Center for Continuing Educa­have to be answered within two the SLC specifically asked the tion). We hope that a significant 
weeks. This is because the appropriate Administation offi­number of students will be President himself never approved cials to work with this commit­present at this meeting in order that suggestion. In other words tee regarding decisions about to show their concern for the it is a vicious circle. Fr. Res­security at Notre Dame, the issue of hall life. burgh took three months to committee has been constantly We also encourage all students respond to the Judicial Code. At ignored when decisions were who are dissatisfied with the no time did he discuss the code made and have only been in­performance of the SLC to come with the entire SLC in that three formed when they attempted to to futur\! meetings and show month period. Instead he simply find out the extent of progress your desire for more speedy decided not to approve the code on the matter. Added to this is action. 
and sent it back to the SLC with the refusal of the Administration Phil McKenna "instructions." But because the to conduct a long range study of Fred Dedrick Council has spent the last four the problem of security and the Rich Meckel meetings on parietal hours the adoption of a piecemeal Ted Jones code has still not been approved approach to a complex issue. Ed Roickle -after five months! the fault for Ron Mastriana
Another instance of ~;;~ lack

this delay lies neither with the Steve Ahern
of respect for the pro )}ems of
students nor the Council but 
students is-the-paric:-tal hours
rather squarely on the shoulders issue. The Council has been Guy DeSapio's Statementof the President. 
de);)ating this issue for the past month. Hours and hours of time Although I agree with the rest have been spent on this one of my collegues that Father small aspect of hall life while the Whelan's report to be considered students are living under condi­Monday is extremely important, 
tions which at best can be I cannot sign the above letter described as inadequate and at since I feel that many of the worst, described as miserable. statements made over simplify 
From the country 
Finally, last week Fr. Whelan situations and incidents and so 
that gave you, 
wrote a report that placed a are misleading. 
"I AWOMAN," 
significant part of the blame for I agree that the pace of the these conditions exactly where it council's deliberations is slow lies -with the Administration. and that it must be speeded up. 
"INGA" and 
"lAM 
The report accurately points out. However, I feel that my colle­
CURIOUS 
the absence of a COJ11prehensive gue's letter implies that the burden for the most part, lies onPolls show the shoulders of certain faculty members and administrators.
close race 
Much time has been wasted this 
(continued from page 1) 
year by the petty dickering over personal approach and informal 
semantics by student members. tone." A sophomore for KrliShl_la 
Instead of preparing written remarked that he would vote for 
amendment to bills, prior to him because Krashna "empha­
Council sessions that could be sizes community," while another 
presented easily at the Council, said that Krashna was "a per­
we often find ourselves spending sonal friend." A senior was 
time in the meeting working on mildly critical remarking "Krash­
rough drafts of amendments that na is too visionary, Thrasher is 
members are working on-on the more practical and direct." A 
spot. A prime example of we, sophomore for Drashna said that 
students, lack of preparation is he felt "Krashna would move 
the above letter which was 
Student Government ahead with 
circulated at the last moment 
diversity.' 
yesterday afternoon and given to 
The race is shaping up as a 
me to sign without group consid­
very tight one, reminiscent of 
eration on the writing. At the 
last year's McKenna-Mroz fight. 
same time this does not vindicate 
The off-campus vote which 
the laziness, or lack of thought­
proved decisive there, was 
fulness, on the part of certain
ommitted here since no 
administrators and faculty mem­
adequate polling procedure was 
bers.
formulated that would have 
Specifically they claim that 
assured accurate. results. Both 
the SLC has failed to pass
candidates will undoubtedly be 
anything which they feared the 
campaigning vigorously to 
Trustees might not agree to. 
capture the undecided vote 
What perhaps are they talking
which holds the balance on 
about? Our resolution on parie­tal hours which couldn't have 
FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1970 
actions 

been worded any stronger tow­ard individual halls having their own say. Can they point out an example? 
They complain about Father Hesburgh's handling of the Judi­cial Code. I agree that he took too long before giving us his opinions on it. But to say that 
he returned it with "instruc­tions" is ridiculous. He returned it with suggestions for improve­ment and simplification. Most of his suggestions the Council now agrees are wise. At the same time it is interesting that the Student Body President should criticize · the President's action since he himself opposes the code in its present form and yet has offered no alternative proposals except its complete rejection on the basis that it is too legalistic. An 
observation which  Father  Res­ 
burgh  made  and  in  which  I  
concur.  

Complaining about the time lapse on the implementation of resolutions is silly since the only thing that took more than two weeks before the reply was made was the Judicial Code.Mr. Frick answered our proposals on the Placement Bureau the next week. The Juggler was reinstated immediately and security issues were already being dealt with at the same time the council was passing its bill. 
They do have a valid point when they say that a lack of communication existed between the security committee and the University. To say that they were ignored however is not true since I know of no time that they were refused a request to participate in discussion when they were asked for it. The University did not consult them on every move, however, but I do not necessarily see that as the SLC intent when we created the committee. At the same time to attack the administration for not undertaking a long range study of the problem of security without stating the alternative actions the university is taking is to state only one side of the issue. 
The consulting firms report would have cost upwards of four digits and as Father Riehle suggested at the last meeting the money could be better spent right now on the installation of a 
cyclone fence around D 1 park­ing lot. He also noted that he and Mr. Pears were traveling to Duke University to talk with officials there about the useful­


ness of a similar survey that was 
Pre sen ted by 
conducted there. i I must say that I agree with
Sophom,ore
..uT 111111 IAYIIIOM) tWill 
my collegues on many of the ' points they raise. The limits of
Literary 

space and time prohibit me from going into further detail. Perhaps 
BEllE 
Festival
Jd£ 

if students would attend the
OUR 

session on Monday as we sug­
WINNER BEST PICTURE 
MONDAY, MARCH 9 

gest, we could discuss afterwards WASHINGTON HALL 
the contents of both the letter and my reply and also many
7:00 & 9:15P.M. 

other issues of the council.
$1.00 
Today is 


..
the FIRST FRIDAY in AMERICA 
8:30PM 

• 
FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1970 'E OBSERrJBR. 
Students issue SLC statements 
(continued from page 2) 
support. Roickle commented 
that student representatives have 
the powers of "persuasion and 
the masses of students support­
ing them." They contend that 
the structure of the SLC has 
inhibited the former. 
Specifically, the representa­tives felt that there was a "vicious circle" in the SLC structure. A number of admini­strators sitting on the council, they stated, are the same indivi­duals who have final say over resolutions. They also felt that there was not enough contact with the students on the part of those with power, with the result that it takes months for issues crucial to students to be finally resolved. 
In particular, they expressed much dissatisfaction over the action · concerning the judicial code. The code took five months to draw up according to the students and it was thought that 
Father Hesburgh would approve or disapprove of the code in two weeks. 
"After the first month, he 
sent us a letter asking for more 
time," commented Meckel. The 

students complained that his · 
final suggestions for change 
came three months after the 
code was passed. 
"We have no power to force 
Father Hesburgh to act," said 
Meckel. 
The representatives hoped that many students would attend the meeting Monday. They argued that Father Whe­lan's letter would be, in effect, the only influence that the students could have on the Trustees' decision on extending student responsibility. 
· The final reason for the letter, 
was to get student support. 
Some of the members expressed 
pessimism over whether it would 
be effective. 
Finally, so-ine of the members mentioned that the student body was not entirely at fault in the lack of support. All admitted 

Final collection taken 
The Fund Drive for the Thomas A. Dooley Foundation (in the hall chapel); Sorin, 
is going into its last collections, Stanford, Walsh, and Zahm. and they will take place on these Cavan:t!!gh will finish its col­days in these halls: lections on Friday night. In March 6, Friday: St. Ed's, addition to these ha11 collect­Keenan, and Lyons ions, there will be collection March 7, Saturday: Saint desks at both dining halls on Ed's Sunday, March 8, at both the 
March 8, Sunday: Pangborn noon and evening meals. 

-=---------j 
OBSERVER BUFFS 
-We Need Your Help
THE UBSER VER is in the process of completing its files and finds that it is missing some back issues. We would like to compile complete sets of Observers so we can have a permanent record of our history here in the office. We need the following. Can you help? 
Volume I 1966-67 
NO. S NO. SO (March) N0.6 NO. 54 " · 
NO. 10 NO. 59 " NO. 12 (if we printed that NO. 67 (April) far) through the end of the NO. 68 (April) 
Year. NO. 78 (MAY) 
Volume II '1967-68 NO. 79 (May NO. 1-21 (all of Sept. and Oct.) NO. 26 (NOV.) Volume Ill 1968-69 
NO. 29 (DEC.) NO. 30 (DEC.) NO. 29 (OCT.)
NO. 31-35 (JAN.) NO. 62 (Dec.)
NO. 39 (FEB.) NO. 83 (Feb)
NO. 43 " NO. 75 (FEB. 19)
NO. 44 " NO. 106 (March
NO. 45 " NO. 125 (April) 
NO. 46 " 
STARTS TONIGHT 
co-feature 
MoNICA'S THING ? 
Must show legal proof ofage and Notre Dame ID card 
1 • 


that they had been derelict in their responsibilities of inform­ing the students and stirring up support. However, there was a feeling that the representatives were to an extent overworked and this accounted for some of their failing on this matter. The 
comments were closed o)' Meckel's expression of the feeling that "there is still time; our terms do not run out until June". 
DeSapio 's remarks on the issue and the original letter appear on the letters page. 
~ 
PAGE 7 

FIRSTFRIDAYFIRSTFRIDAYFIRSTFRIDAYFIRST 
FIRSTFRIDAYFIRSTFRIDA YFIRSTFRIDA YFIRST 


'AMERICA. LIVESI 
AMERICA'SSTOPSATURDA Y AMERICA 'SSTOPSATU AMERICA'SSTOPSATURDA Y AMERICA 'SSTOPSA TU 
~ 
Santa Fe 
~ ~ 

SANTA FE RAILWAY 
will interview students at. 
UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME Thursday, March 12, 1970 to review 
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES 
Santa Fe is a transportation company serving the southwest by rail. truck and pipeline. We have substantial interests in oil. lumber, uranium. coal. real estate and other enterprises, too. 
If you would like more information about a career with Santa Fe where the only limit to your future is your desire, ability and effort arrange for an on-campus interview. We want to talk with you. 
Santa Fe offers career opportunities in these departments: Accounting, Finance, Cost Analysis, Railway Operations, Market Research, Real Estate and Industrial Development, Communications, also Civil, Electrical, Industrial and Mechanical Engineering. 
We are looking for individuals with Masters degrees in Accounting, '<i'uantitative Methods, Business Administration, Transportation, and Marketing or Bachelors degrees in Transportation, Real Estate, Statistics, Engineering (Mechanical, Electrical, Civil, Industrial Engineers or Technologists). 
Schedule your interview with the University Placement Office and ask for brochure featuring Santa Fe career opportunities. 


• 
711B OBSERlii:R. FRIDAY, MARCH 6,1970 
Most important people-the refs 
by Mike Pa vlin Observer Sports Editor 
Haunted by a host of assorted jinxes, the Fighting Irish hoopsters open up against Ohio University in ·the NCAA's tomorrow afternoon at Dayton. Winners at the Regional advance to Columbus for the second round. 
ND has lost the last four NCAA games: to Miami of Ohio last year, 63-60; Houston in 1965 in overtime, 99-98; Bowling Green in 1963, 77-72; 
' and Ohio U. in 1960, 74-66. In fact the Irish haven't beaten anyone outside of the NIT since 1958 when they stopped Indiana, 94-87. Johnny Dee's charges return to the scene of last week's rather disappointing showing against the Univeristy of Dayton. The brand new fieldhouse was crammed to its 13,500 capacity and another large crowd is expected tomorrow. Besides the Irish-Bobcat struggle, the fans will see two seven-footers battle it out for Jacksonville (Artis -Gilmore) and Western Kentucky (Jim McDaniels). The Ohio U. Bobcats won the Mid-American Conference title last weekend by dumping Bowling Green. They hit the 
·national limelight early in the 
season by w_reaking havoc 
among Big Ten schools (they 
beat Ohio State) and were 
ranked in the Top Ten for 
several weeks. They were also 
the subject of an article in 
Sports Illustrated. 
There's nothing very 
complicated aboqt OU's style of 
play, 6-7 Greg McDivitt, 6-8 
Craig Love, and 6-5 Dave Groff 
are tough, physical ballplayers. 
Love is averaging 13.9 ppg and 
13 rebounds while McDivitt 
averages 15.0. This front line 
makes up in strength what it 
lacks in finesse and the trio 
figures to give the Irish forwards 
a rough battle. John Canine, a 
6-2 guard, leads the club in 
scoring at 18.6. His running 
mate is Ken Kowall, who stands 
6-1. 
Notre Dame enters this 
contest the same way it has all 
season, wearing a big question 
mark. The Irish have given 
evidence that they are capable of 
both great and rotten play. The 
second half of the season, 
however, has been mostly great 
and this is certainly the most 
encouraging of the game's 
factors. ND took a beating 
against Dayton, but the loss 

wasn't all that serious. The Irish were due for a poor shooting 

night and the Flyers were . tremendously_ psyched for tlie struggle. The only dangerous note I detect from the Joss was the clobbering ND took on the 
boards.  This  is  where  the  
bobcats hit hardest.  
A  big night  by  Austi.1  Carr  

could make heavy rebounding unnpcessary. AC has now finalized four regular season records: Most Points Scored, 948; Highest Scoring Average, 36.5; Most Field Goal Attempts, 681; and Most Field Goals Made, 
376. He carries a wonderful 55% shooting mark and was recently named to AP's second-string All American Team. 
If he gets hot, Austin can expect some sort of special coverage from the Bobcats and the Irish will need scoring help from the front line as well as rebounding strength. Steady Collis Jones hasn't missed a varsity game in his career and has consistantly performed well this year. Carrying an 18.0 average, he leads the club in 'bounds with a 12.5 average. He rose to the occasion against Butler and he has a tough job tomorrow. 
The question mark rides most heavily on the shirt of Sid Catlett. The 6-8 center has been dynamite in the latter part of the season, scoring well, rebounding, and playing fine defense. Big Sid can expect to be the subject of much ppounding inside. If he can stand up under the pressure and control the defensive boards, the Irish will be in the driver's seat. 
Jackie Meehan will quarterback the attack, hopefully with help from Mike O'Connell Jack has chalked up a bushel of assists lately and has been moving NO's high-scoring offense will. O'Connell's ankle has been healing slowly. Mike 
Stanford scores 
Stanford evened its best of three interhall basketball championship series with Alum­ni hall at one win apiece last night by scrambling to a 62-61 triumph. 
The winners were led by Tim O'Conner's seventeen points and Fred Swendson, whose strong rebounding gave Stanford a 32-31 halftime lead. High point man for the game was Alumni's Don Reid, who scored nineteen. 
Stanford will gun for its second consecutive champion­ship Mondfy night at eight on the center court of the ACC. Alumni is counting on the return of a healthy Dale Mitchell to snap the string. 

ND 26-game basketball statistics 
PLAYER G FGA FGM PCT FTA FTM PCT REB AVG TP AVG Austin Carr, G 26 681 376 .552 238 296 .824 216 8.3 948 36.5 Collis Jones, F 26 442 202 .455 109 65 .596 325 12.5 469 18.0 Sid Catlett, C 25 240 101 .421 69 32 .464 192 7.7 234 9.4 Mike O'Connell, G 24 135 56 .415 61 42 .689 69 3.0 154 6.4 Tom Sinnott, G 24 122 54 .443 21 II .524 79 3.3 119 4.9 Jim Hinga, F 24 79 27 .342 33 22 .667 61 2.5 76 3.2 
Jackie Meehan, G 24 67 30 .448 22 14 .636 44 1.8 74 3.1 Doug Gemmell, F t 16 52 27 .519 16 9 .563 43 2.7 63 3.9 John Gallagher, F 16 39 19 .487 12 9 .750 13 0.8 47 2.9 Jay Ziznewski, C 20 45 26 .578 34 12 .353 62 3.1 64 3.2 John Pleick, C * 16 135 61 .452 42 24 .571 107 6.7 146 9.1 
~ tFractured Ankle, 2/21/70 *Ineligible, 2/1/70 Team Rebounds 163 6.3 
NOTRE DAME 26 2037 979 .481 657 436 .663 1374 52.8 2394 92.1 OPPONENTS 26 1959 866 .442 655 452 .690 1201 46.2 2184 84.0 
"' Record: Won 20 -Lost 6 
has the knack of getting things Catlett. What will hurt also wm 
moving and he has brought his be for the Irish to fall behind 
field goal average up steadily. early as the Bobcats tend to take 
There is certainly no doubt their time on offense. And the 
that the Irish can beat Ohio U., most crucial people on the floor 
but there was no doubt that will be the refs. The game figures 
they could have beaten Miami of to be extra-physical and if OU 
Ohio last year. ND will need a can get away with its style of 
hot hand from Carr and strong play, the Bobcats will have the 
rebounding from Jones and upper hand. 
~..........................................flllllllllllllll~lllll& 


~!RISE EYE 
.By. Mike ·Pavlin, sports editor 
tlll..iiiiiiUIUIUIIHiiDtiJIU!I.JIIIIJIIIIIIIIIUintiUIIIRflfl 
The way it bounces 
last year, the Observer sports department wrote two articles about the ridiculous 1 0-lap unbanked · track which has been built in the North Dome of the Convo Center. It has recently come to my attention that the track is not the only thing done poorly at the ACC. 
There are beautiful squash courts at the Convo. But they are in ludicrous condition due to the temperature maintained in them. It would seem an easy thing to fix but so far everything that Eric Sandeen has done has failed to move the hand that guards the thermostat. 
Sandeen (known as the "Iron Duck") is a senior Collegiate Scholar who went to high school at Portsmouth Priory in Rhode Island. At the Priory, Sandeen played No. 2 on the squash team and has since spent four years trying to promote the game here. There are many teachers who play, but only a few underg~·ads. This year, Sandeen has been teaching a Free University course in Advanced Squash. 
Squash can be basically compared to handball except that a racquet is used and the ball has exactly the opposite tendence. A good squash ball will bounce only under extreme pounding. Court strategy calls for hitting the ball jmt barely above the border strip of tin on the fro~t wall and placing the ball along the side where it dies quickly. The ball, under the Impetus of the racquets, reaches rather high speeds and one needs to keep his eye on it at all times. 
One of the things hampering NO's squash program has been lack of facilities. But with the new Convo courts available, Sandeen thought he had something going. Or so he thought until he went over to play. 
"First of all, I had to complain about five times before they would paint the floors." A black ball traveling along a brown floor at such speeds is dangerously difficult to see. But the real problem is heat and what it does to the ball. 
"The shop in the ice rink is the only place in town where you can buy a ball," laments the "Iron Duck", and the ones they sell have very poor compression. They heat up too easily and the bounce around ilke · handballs." Helping the squash ball bounce is the temperature. "Ideally, it should be 40 degrees. Then the balls stays good and hard, like a rock. But the Convo courts are 80 degrees. They are also stuffy and humid. People at the ACC say they eventually want to have tournaments or at least matches with the locals schools. But if they bring anyone in here to play, first of all he'll sweat like a pig and second of all he'll be in great physical danger. If it wasn't for the temperature, they'd be the best courts in the state." 
Besides putting the players' health in jeopardy with the balls zinging around like an overze::llous electron, the Convo courts turn 
real squash into a travesty. "Squash consists in hitting '~ill' shots on 
the front wall, but this is impossible with the lively ball. You hit the 
ball to the front and instead of dying on the wall like it should, it 
comes all the way back where your opponent can get it. Then he 
tries the same thing and again the ball comes back. And every few 
minutes you stop to wipe the sweat from your eyes. It's just not 
squash." 

Sandeen has been complaining vociferously to the powers thatbe 
at the ACC, but has received no answer. Not even an excuse, no 
answer. "I'd be happy if they would just get it down to 65 degrees. 
I'm also trying to get the ice rink people to buy some decent balls. I 
just don't know what's wrong. All they have to do is turn down the 
temperature in the courts. It's not like the whole place is on one 
system." 

Although his plans have come to naught, the Iron Duck has not 
given up. "I've been writing to people I know in Fort Wayne and 
Indianapolis trying to get a match. I've got people up here• who are 
willing to play. It will only take one match and the Convo people 
will get laughed at. The word will get around, "don't go to 
Southbend; you'll either get hurt by the ball or you'll have a heart 
attack'." 

So come on you desert dwellers at the Convo. It may be 
impossible for you to fix that track you've goofed up, but at least 
you can do something for the Iron Duck and his friends. Let your 
heavy hand fall on the thermostat instead of on the players. 




