Air strike may de lay trip home 
by Jeff Noonan 
Some, if not many, Notre Dame and St. Mary's students travelling home for Easter vacation may be affected by the threatened Professional Air Controller's Organization walk out. The walk out was to occur at 8:00 a.m. this morning. 
Telephone calls made to the St. Joseph's County Airport in South Bend revealed varied expectations of the results of the walk out. 
The Air Controllers in the tower at St. Joseph's County airport stated that to their knowledge there would be no strike. Mr. Don Chase, head of flight services for the Federal Aviation Agency (FAA) in South Bend, said, "Airlines will be opera­ting" today. 
Many flights out of and through South Bend yesterday evening were Im­mediately filled by persons apprehensive about the walk out. Some Notre Dame and SMC students, anticipating the shut­down of air transportation, made reserva­tions for Tuesday afternoon and evening, even though classes are not officially 
concluded at Notre Dame until Thursday 
afternoon. 
United Airlines representatives at the airport advised that they could not say definitely whether or not the walk out would actually take place. United recom­mended that concerned students should listen to radio news broadcasts today. 
The United spokesman at St. Joseph's County Airport said that if the walk out occurred, it would be at 8:00 a.m. this morning and that all United flights would 
be cancelled. 
Allegheny Airlines, also out of South Bend, said that they did not know if the threatened walk out would occur, but that if it did all flights would be in the air. These flights might, however, be somewhat "slowed up". 
At North Central Airline's central reservation headquarters, Milwaukee, Wis­consin, Miss Ann Morici, a reservations clerk, reported that the only information they had heard was the broadcasts on radio and television. 
"Usually, in this circumstance, flights will merely be delayed. Everything else remains the same," she added. 
If the air controllers do strike, ND-SMC students traveling North Cen­tral's "blue geese" with youth cards will not be affected. 
United Press International (UPI) re­ports that "the 7,500 man union said the slowdown would go into effect at 8 a.m. Wednesday in a protest over working conditions." A spokesman for the union said that the controllers plan to call in sick or request leave because of fatigue. 
UPI stated that these "controllers claim the combination of fatigue and obsolete equipment is endangering the safety of the air traffic control system." 
This "sick out" is reminiscent of a walk out of June 1969 which paralyzed all major airports of the nation. 


Krashna calls appointee: •sensatlve' 
Bob Pohl named SU he ad 


by John Abowd 
During the past week the Stu­dent Senate and The Hall Presi­dent's Council moved jointly to establish a committee which would propose a new constitu­tion for the operation of student government. The committee is composed of Stay Senators Tom Thrasher, Fred Giuffrida, Pat Weber and Russ Stone as well as Hall Presidents Phil DeFliese, Tom Suddes and Mike Lindburg a fourth hall president's seat is as yet unfilled. The other members of the committee are SBP-elect 
Dave  Krashna  and  SBVP-Mark  
Winings.  
Krashna, in  an  interview last  

night, classified the role of the committee as one of investigat­ing the present Student Govern­ment and propose a new coordi­native body called the Student Forum. This body, as outlined in the campaign, would be compos­ed of the Hall President's council with off-campus representation. Krashna claimed that: "After our mandate we think this is what the students want." Krash­na also said that John Barkett of Morissey would be the HPC's fourth representative on the committee. 
Grace Stay Senator Tom Thrasher saw the committee in a different perspective. Thrasher, 
., also interviewed last night, anti­cipated a new constitution which will be "shorter, less wordy, more clear, descriptive and technically correct," than its predecessor. Thrasher called the old constitution which is nine pages long "superfluous" and "sketchy" in its description of the offices and duties of present government structures. He cited as an example, the confusion surrounding last year's recall ef­fort against Richard Rossie which resulted in a long amend­ment clarifying recall proce­dures. 
Asked to comment on the possibility of a Student Forum being incorporated into the new constitution, Thrasher said he believed the proposal would pro­bably be approved in committee. He suggested that there might be a minority report if this were the case. The student Senate could then either approve the new constitution or the minority re­port by 2/3 vote or submit Weber. 
Bob Pohl became the Student Pohl's nomination was made Union Director for next year after Krashna had interviewed late yesterday afternoon, after each applicant. Krashna said the Student Union Board of Pohl has the potential to make Directors approved his nomina­the Student Union more person­tion by SSP-elect, Dave Krash­al and to break down the na. Applications for the position "bureaucracy." that exists. were also submitted by Tom He also mentioned that Pohl Oliveri and Stay Senator Pat knows how to constructively 
Ask curfew changes 
by Ann Therese Darin 
In an attempt to eliminate the curfew for SMC's Freshman Class, Freshmen Laura Bayer and Ginny Zuccaro are initiating a drive to sample parental opinion on the issue. 
division 
either or both to a student refer­
endum requiring the approval of 
50% plus one of the entire 
undergraduate student body. 
Grace's other Stay Senator H. 
Patrick Weber expressed confi­
dence in the Student Senate. 
While he thought the idea of a 
Student Forum "could be feasi­
ble" he viewed the Student Sen­
ate as a more functional pody. 
"The only thing the Student Senate needs is a rededication on the part of the Senators so that 'they realize just what their job 
(continued on page 3) 

Their proposal is in the form of a letter explaining to parents the present curfew regulations, the consequences of their vote, and an attached list of five possi­ble curfew changes. 
They drafted what they term a "constructive proposal" for curfew changes because they be­lieve that there should be some responsible tabulation for parent opinion on the subject since any kind of change would necessitate parental permission. 
Choices on the questionnaire include no curfew restrictions for freshman year, one weekend a month, or second semester. 
Parents are also given the op­tion of indicating whether they agree with the curfew changes, but would not want them grant­ed to their daughter. 
Presently freshmen must be in their residence halls at dorm closing. Dorm closing in the resi­dence hall manual is defined as midnight on Sunday-Thursday. Friday and Saturday evenings 
(continued on page 2) 


handle criticism because he is 
"sensitive" to others. 
According to Krashna, the new director is capable of diver­sifying union activities and ex­posing them to the campus as a whole. Krashna closed by saying that the other candidates were qualified and had a knowledge of Student Union and its direc­tion. Krashna said that he hopes that they will continue their interest in the union and the student government as a whole. 
0 u t going director, Dennis Clark, said that he . was ex­tremely pleased with the choice. Clark added that Pohl was a proven leader and will "be able to help the Union continue to fulfill and hopefully expand up­on its function as a service to the university community." Clark's administration will work closely with Pohl during the next few weeks to "help 'smooth the tran­sition." 
Pohl said that he will continue many of Oark's programs, such as lectures and concerts. Accord­ing to Pohl, the Union is "over centralized." He plans to reduce this problem by letting parts of the Union work in the halls. He gave the example of a speaker to illustrate his point. Instead of Union officials entertaining the 
speaker with dinner or parties, the speaker would be invited to visit halls and conduct informal seminars. 
Pohl also stated that he would like to have a foreign cultural festival and bring more blacks into the Student Union. 
The new director congratu­lated Clark for his work in re­structuring the Union and giving it "financial stability". Pohl said that the Union will be able to dQ... 
more for the students next year as a result of Clark's work. 
Pohl and his staff will begin work under the guidance of Clark's staff, and will probably assume full power around April twelfth. 
With today's edition of The Observer will end publication until April 7. We wish all of you a most blessed and hap­PY Easter Season. 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 1970PAGE 2 

THB OBS£1WER. 
SLC passes University Ombudsman 
opposing the Grievance Council by Jim Holsinger According to Student Body to the SLC, the present student man, and recommends that the system. He favors a faculty om-
The Student Life Council passed a bill Monday calling for the establishment of the official position of University Ombus­man, but it will take more meet­ings of the Faculty Senate and the College Councils to make the 
osition workable. 
Summer 
. 
ID 
Cleveland 
Undergraduate and grad­uate students can earn up to 9 semester hours of credit during the seven­week term at Case West­ern Reserve University (June 22-Aug. 7). 
For further informa­tion, write to the Office of the Summer Session, Case Western Reserve Univer­sity, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, or stop in during your spring break. 
Case Western Reserve University 
t--------------L-....::..::.:..:..:.:..=::::....:..:.....:::::.:....:.:.!...:.:..~:.:.:=-__,
•
IS 
THIS! yourbag 
Perhaps you've never given much thought to WHAT "your bag" really is! 
You're not alone! More than 3500 others have searched asking the same question ... "is this my bag?" 
Yet, after "leveling" with themselves they dis­covered that they were "up tight" and wanted to follow in the steps of St. Francis of Assisi who more than 700 years ago decided to "do his own thing." 
More than 3500 Franciscan priests and broth­ers are in far-flung missions around the world, others are conducting parishes or teaching in schools or universities; others are in home mission territories. 
They have one thing in common ... they're all telling it like it is! 
IS THIS YOUR BAG! 
If you'd like to find out, fill in this coupon for more information. 
Franciscan Vocation Office Post Office Box 1983 Santa Fe, New Mexico 87501 
I would like to find out whether or not the Franciscan priesthood or brotherhood is "my bag." 
Name ----------------------------­
Address 
City 
State 
Phone No. _________ Age ____ Year 
President Phil McKenna the University Ombudsman' will need assistance either in the form of an Academic Grievance Council or a Faculty Ombuds­man in each college. The College Councils and the Faculty Senate would have to take action on the SLC ombudsman proposal toes­tablish the necessary services. 
McKenna also hinted that some sort of student election of faculty members to positions on an academic council or to om­budsman offices may be desir­able. 
The SLC action is the result of work done earlier this year by the Academic Affairs Sub-Com­mittee of the Student Senate. The committee recommended an Academic Appeals Council to fill the void left since the termina­
tion of the Honor Council, and, as was reported in the February 1Oth issue of the Observer, sought an effective means for handling complaints by faculty and students concerning cases of cheating, plagiarism, and unfair grading practices. 
Under the proposal, a "univer­sity ombudsman" would replace the present student ombudsman, and be a faculty member with more power in academic areas. 
Ace to the re given ombudsman has received com­plaints ranging from rats at the lake to stolen laundry, and as reported to the SLC, the service was at least modestly successful, but was hindered greatly by its inability to handle academic grievances and by the fact that it did not have any University ap­proval to solve problems. 
The Student Senate investigat­ed the possibility of a University Ombudsman Service. This ser-
OBSERVER INSIGHT 
vice would include a full-time salaried Ombudsman, with sever­al students serving as assistant Ombudsmen on a part time basis and a faculty member or an academic grievance committee in each college to handle academic grievances. 
The SLC bill, which was pass­ed unanimously, ·endorses the concept of a University Ombuds-Faculty Senate and the College Counci~s in~estigate the idea of the UmvefSlty Ombudsman Ser­vice with a particular emphasis on the necessity of and role of a Facult~ O~budsman and/or :'-cade~lc ~?evance Committee m each mdlvldual college. 
The big question in all.of the proposals is still whether to set up a Grievance Council, or to have an individual faculty om­budsman in each college. 
A grievance council in each 
·college would be composed of two faculty members from the college, two students, and the university ombudsman. A stu­dent or teacher having a com­plaint would go through this council. The proponents of the Grievance Council system point out, however, that it is in no way intended to be a trial, but simply a way to get both sides together. SBP McKenna is among those 
budsman in each college, and said that he believes that the system would function more smoothly on a more personal system. 

"It is easier in almost any situation for a person to talk with one person than with a whole council," McKenna said. 
Opponents of the faculty om­budsman system claim that a faculty member may be reluc­tant to volunteer his time to be an ombudsman when he could be spending it teaching and re­searching. Proponents of the system say that the new faculty ombudsman should be reimburs­ed in some way, perhaps by being given reduced hours. 
McKenna said that he believes that there will be no great diffi­culty in getting faculty members to volunteer for these positions, and that it may be advisable to carry on some kind of student elections for the positions. 
SMC girls to poll parents 
(continued from page 1) 

freshmen !)laY stay out until two a.m. Only Sr. Immaculate, Dean of Students, and Susan Turnbull, SMC Student Body President,
have the authorization to e­xempt girls from curfew. After soliciting self-addressed, stampedenvelopes from freshmen wishing to cooperate in the drive, the girls mail proposals to the parents. "The whole proposal is work­ing against time. Many of those working on the proposal feel that even if they don't reap rewards personally at least next year's freshmen might," said Mrs. Ronald Pearson, Associate Regina Hall Director. 
Upon receiving the results due April 6, the team will tabulate them and present them to Sr. Immaculata. "The administra­tion can't totally ignore the opinion of the -parents," Miss Zuccaro stated. 
Any proposal based on tabula­
tions of parental opinion must 
first pass the student assembly 
and subsequently be passed by 
the student affairs committee. 
According to the team work­
,;Where Quality Counts" 
TOMPSETT 
Studio 

122 N. Michigan 233-6157 

ing on the proposal, the bill must then go to the Trustees since this involves a "policy change" of the college. Besides needing the Board of Trustees' approval, all of the proposals would depend upon individual parental permission. 
Centered in predominately­freshman Regina Hall, where ac­cording to the group, there has been almost 100% turnout from the floors, enthusiasm is spread­ing to other halls. 
"It's a good idea. If you're old enough to be in a school like this, then you should be old enough to set your own time. I've talked to a lot of girls who don't have curfew at home. It's pressuring them here," claimed Maureen McDonaugh, LeMans Hall resident. 
"I feel that taking part in 
extra-curricular activities such as 
working on student publications 
and taking part in ND-SMC pro­
ductions, freshmen are hamper­
ed by out-dated curfew" said 
Carol Riordan, another LeMans 
resident. 

Support in Holy Cross Hall is 
also encouraging. "Passage of 
this proposal would alleviate 
much of the 'bolting' problem," 
reflected Patty McNamara. Many 
students now fail to sign out, or 
tell a hall resident to sign them 
in. 

"I think it's good for the 
people who are mature enough 
to handle the extra responsibili­
ties," added Kathy Hinsman. 
"Unfortunately, we aren't all 
mature enough." 

"Every"one was looking out 
for herself. As long as the upper­
classmen, who predominate in 
the assembly, made sure that 
they had no hours, they didn't 
care about the freshmen," claim­
ed Miss McNamara. "It was a 
question of apathy." 

INVENT A SLOGAN • WIN A PRIZE 
"Whatever Your Cause, It's a Lost Cause Unless We Control Population" 
That's the best population slogan we've ,ment of the importance and urgency of been able to come up with, Can you top checking population growth~ to the it? A citation and an honorarium of $10 environment, to quality of life, to world are offered for the best slogan turried in peace. Send it on or before April 22 to to the advertising manager of this news­this newspaper, addressed "Population paper before the forthcoming Environ­Contest." Judges on this campus will be mental Teach-In on Earth Day, April 22. three members of this paper's staff The winning slogan from this campus appointed by the ad manager. All deci· will be eligible to compete for the sions final and only their selection will national be eligible for big national prize, to be judged by Paul Ehrlich, David Brower,
$500 PRIZE 

and Hugh Moore. to be awarded for the best slogan pm­Write your slogan today. One entry pared by a student on any of the 215 per student. For free literature on popu­campuses where this ad is appearing. lation explosion, write Hugh Moore 
Rules: Simply devise a brief state· Fund, 60 E. 42nd St., New York 10017. 
E9rlier this year, the proposal was again defeated by the stu­dent representatives. When ap­proached by a group of fresh­men willing to work for a second semester curfew elimination, these representatives discouraged the girls. Excessive bolting from the first day freshmen arrived in September and too-frequent 

summonings of freshmen before the campus judicial board would work against the effort, the rep­resentatives claimed. 
Current action on the idea stems from a motion sponsored by Miss Zuccaro and Maribeth Cashman at a March S Regina Hall Council meeting. 
Pears: 

'no Mace' 
Arthur Pears, Director of 
Campus Security, yesterday an­
swered questions put to him on 
the reported use of Mace in the 
Alumni Hall altercation last Fri­
day night. 

According to some witnesses, 
when the melee broke out in 
Alumni on Friday after the Ben­
gal Bouts, one of the two offi­
cers dispatched to the scene re­
portedly sprayed Mace on the 
opposing groups to attempt to 
quell the disturbance. 

When asked about the use of 
Mace on campus and whether 
the university furnishes it to the 
security police, Pears replied, 
"We do not furnish Mace to 
Security Officers." 

However he continued to 
point out that "Mace is in the 
hands of those who are hired by 
the security office, and are off­
duty city police or county 
sheriffs." Pears explained that 
these officers have the chemical 
because it is "regular equipment 
of the officers of these two 
departments." 

Officers of the South Bend 
Police and County Sheriffs 
Office are employed by the Uni­
versity on a part-time basis. 
*~INEST IN STEREOiC 
Tt..A C. 11 LTl:"C, 
LANS/N(;, JVC 
Colvr TV sets ·' /VC 
OSS PRODUCTIO~ 
Call 232-2804 
1 
----I 
-,he Observer is published daily. during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from the Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, lf\d·• 46556, 

.. 
THE OBSERfi£R.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 1970 
PAGE 3 

National Guardsmen now doing postal work 

(UPI) -Federal troops wor­soldiers and National Guardsmen 
king at post offices in New York into the city at a cost of $1 
and regular postal employees re­million a day. 
turning to work in many other Only half of the troops were 
cities broke the nation's mail put to work Tuesday morning 
logjam yesterday and gave im­and there was no explanation 
petus to Congress' efforts to why so many were kept idle. 
settle the postal strike. The New York situation, it ap­
peared, reflected a state of fluxThe ranking Republi.-:an on concerning the strike issue inthe !louse Post Office Commit­Washington.
tee, Rep. Robert J. Corbett of Postmaster General Winton M.
Pennsylvania, said James Rade­Blount said he was "verymacher, head of the striking pleased" with the back to workLetter Carriers' Union, told him movement but that the adminis­98 to I00 percent of the na­tration"will not negotiate" on tion's postal workers would re­grievances with postal unions un­
turn to work Wednesday. 
til the strike is ended. 
Although there were still em­Rademacher said most of the 
bargoes on mail in a score of strikers had shown good faith. If 
cities in five states, the week old negotiations did not start Tues­
illegal walkout of mail carriers day, he said, "l cannot expect
and other postal employees had any other employees to return eased enough to allow lifting the to work." bans on mail acceptance in New 
The major development iri York, Chicago and Detroit. Washington was the agreement In New York, only first class 
of Sen. Gale McGee, (D. Wyo.) and air mail letters and medical 
chairman of the Senate Post supply parcels were being ac­
Office Committee, to meet with cepted. There was no delivery 
House negotiators on a postalservice and businesses were ex­
pay raise -a reversal of his pected to pick up their mail as 
previous position. soon as it was sorted. Rep. Thaddeus J. Dulski, (D. 
Estimates varied on how long N.Y.) chairman of the House it would take to get the SO Post Office Committee, said million pieces of mail snarled by 
Congress should approve a raise the strike to their destinations, 
and then tell the President "it's but officials said it would take 
your baby". Dulski .said he I 0 days to two weeks if the thought House and Senate con­walkout is ended completely. 
ferees could reach an agreement The nearly 60,000 strikers in 
quickly on a pay boost of about New York City defied President II per cent. Nixon's plea for them to return Meanwhile strikers, who have to work. The plea, made Mon­demanded a 39 per cent wage day, was coupled with his order hike, returned to their jobs in to move some 24,000 regular Chicago -the nation's central 
Ruggers tie A and B 
The Notre Dame ruggers had a came back to tie the score, tough time getting out to however, and the totals stood Washington D.C. this past 3-3 at the half. weekend. Once they finally Dave Fleming advanced the arrived to play Georgetown they ball over the goal in the second settled nothing by tying the half to again hand the lead to lloyas 6 6 in the "A" game and the Irish. Once again the men 3-3 in the "B" contest. from du Lac failed to hold the 
A spring snowstorm in advantage and Georgetown came Pennsylvania made driving through with a late score to knot conditions hazardous and the the contest. team narrowly escaped missing a The "B" game was almost a large portion of the squad. One carbon of the first team. The car in which some men traveled difference came with the final was "totaled". score, Charlie Blum had the lone 
Once the ruggers did arrive in tally for the Irish in this game. 
C.C. they couldn't quite manage Blum was the lone casualty of to overtake the home tea. Tom this hard-fought encounter. Herlihy scored the first three Charlie is expected to be out of points for the Irish by drop action for a few weeks because kicking from ten yards out. This of a minor injury. 
is a rather rare occurance on the ~--------~-------1 rugby field but it ND ENCEINTE 
mail distribution center Detroit, Denver, Rhode Island, central New York, Mil waukee, Worcester, Mass., New Haven, Conn., Los' Angeles and Bakers­field, Calif., and Newark and most of New Jersey. 
At. Lansing, Mich., workers 
struck as soon as troops reached 
New York Monday night. The 
strike spread briefly to Toledo, 
Ohio, Tuesday when postal 
clerks set up picket lines at the 
main post office which letter 
carriers ignored. Letter carriers 
in St. Louis voted Monday night 
not to join the strikes, and clerks 
in Hartford, Conn., voted to 
return to their job Tuesday mid­
night. 
By mid afternoon, embargo 
areas still existed in one or more 
localities in New York, New 
Jersey, Connecticut, Michigan 
and Minnesota. At the peak of 
the strike last Friday, it had 
spread to 13 states from coast to 
coast. 
About 2,500 unarmed mili­
tary personnel worked in two 
Manhattan and a Brooklyn post 
office Tuesday, aided by 12,000 
reservists <1nd National Guards­
men. Strikers watched them en­
ter sullenly and also glared at 20 
members of the Young Workers 
Committee to support striking 
postal workers who paraded a­
cross the street from the General 
Post Office chanting "troops go 
home". 
"Those kooks are just here to 
cook up hostility," said Moe 
Biller, president of the 26,000 
member Manhattan Bronx postal 
union. 
Inside the post offices, super­visors found the youthful sol­diers at first took about 20 times longer to do tasks than it would take regular workers, but they speeded up with experience. William Carrol, director of op~r­ations for the New York postal region, said the troops "are as good or better than most of the temporary help we get." 
"It is very difficult work to do " said Daniel Fucher, a 19 ye~r old private from Ft. Dix, 
N.J .. Not all the men did the work ungrudgingly. 
"A lot of the guys sympathize with the workers," said a ser­geant who asked that his name not be used. "They don't like dents of the seven postal unions 
serving as scabs. A lot of them into negotiations to end the support the anti war movement. 
walkout. 

They know that's where the tax Blount's announcement camemoney's going to Vietnam." 
hours before House and Senate 

In order to expedite military conferees were scheduled tomail bound for overseas, two Air grapple with a compromiseForce Reserve postal groups postal pay increase bill. 
comprising 200 officers and men Blount said most postal work­have been called up and will be ers across the country were re­distributed around the country, turning to work and the onlyaccording to Daniel Z. Henkin, remaining bottleneck was strik­
assistant Secretary of Defense ing mailmen in downtowm Newfor public affairs. The New York York City.
military postal operations, from The postmaster general said which most mail to Europe is he would meet Wednesday in cii.spatched, still was closed. 
Washington with the presidents 
of all seven postal unions, pro­

WASHINGTON (UPI)-Post­vided the current back to work master General Winton M. trend continues. Once the nego­Blount, saying he feels the na­tiations were underway, he said, tion's first postal strike is all but "I would hope we could con­over, yesterday called the presi-clude the matter very soon." 
HP endorses plank 
(continued from page 1) 

small number of concerned Sen­is. A Senator must represent his ators should be brought into the constituents' opinions," Weber Student Forum structure. 
said. Stay Senators Fred Giuffrida 
th..: Observer also contacted and Russ Stone, as well as HPC representatives Suddes and Breen-Phillips Hall president DeFliese. HPC President Tom Mike Lindburg and Barkett were Suddes said he was going into not available for comment at the the meetings with an open present time. 
mind. "I don't have any prefer­ence I want to hear both sides and 'see what objections there are." 
DeFliese, who is president of Flanner Hall, took a favorable attitude towards the Student Forum. He said he thought the Forum would "bring the issues closer to the halls and the guys in the halls." "The hall presi­dents seem to be in closer con­tact with the students," con­tended DeFliese, who saw the job of handling the budget as the major "stumbling block" of the forum. However, he thought the idea of expanding the forum would help solve this problem. 
In referring to the Senate, DeF!iese said he though it "didn't really function" but the 
lOBS! JOBS! ana more, JOBS! St~. Clents, Teachers. Stateside ana lnter­naHonal Job~. Racreatlonal JobS; Year-round Jl'>bs; Summer Jobs. ~· !occupations ana trades. Enjoy a vac..­\lon while you earn. Hurry! ThebeS\ lfobs are taken early. Write: ".lOBS"~ :,.0. Box 475, Dept. CP 163·1, LNn 
:alif. 95_240 
Cc>llcgiate I)iamc>nd tmrx >rter~ ,lflfl( >urn• the ,JflfX >intmmt•of 


gave a shortlived 3-0lead. The Hoyas 
The

is a nice word for my condition. Share my joy 
NotreDame 

on 17 April. Send your 
Bookstore 

name and address if you
Night Editor: Jim Holsinger 
as official

Layout design: T.C. Treanor 
want to adopt one of my 
Notre Dame Dealer 

Layout: Mike Bridgeman, Dan 
grand champion sired
Shaw, Ann Therese Darin 
for
IRIS/I TERRIER pups.

Headlines: T.C. Treanor 
CDI Diamond Jewelry 

Bob Fulton 
Details including cost will 
Night Controller: Tom Duffy 
be mailed to you. Write: 

LADY KAY O'SHAY* 
h~:~)J~

BOX 65/Notre Dame PO *second cousin of NO Mascot 
~' /~~;'·~
Sa~eulyM1,M2 (~ .... 
l1tlll,fl 
'V~,.\_ ,:/ CJ~m 
11'1, M2

Hair Styling 
CDI gtVl'S you gu<~rantt•Pd qu,tiHy lliHI

for N.D. Men the Continental W.,y 
~.wmg,., of 20'}{, to 40°/.• on dt.tnmncf jPWC'Iry

Razor Cutting & Style 
( lllllllflllll\cll.lllltiiUI' lttlllll~l.lftU tii,IIJIIIIIII ttl.ttl.t•l\ Wttrl..tttt: tlltt•t lfy Wtlltcft.llillllllf H''llUH I'' Ill lfu•~t' •llt'ol~

European Layer Shaping for Long Hair 
.wtmh unnc•t t''~"'Y muldl••rtMn put/II A.tltltllllllotlly, tlu• ''''' ul your dt.umntd dm•,nluu lud1•' phl'h" ji'Wt•hy ''"II'

lla11e Long /lair & Let Miss Treva & The Baron 
t'llfl'''"'''" (Ill -.••\1-. 1\w hm"'l t\J,llnlll\1\>.l•• •••llt•lt•·tll~ 1111ly, .11 llw lllWt'~l p1t~,,hlt• pru ~'' ( 1mu• , .. ., u., tor '''llllllt•\Pth•l,ltl~

Be Well Groomed serve & pamper you. 
.\:::.:;;::·:·~,·::~::.::·~i::.·::·::~~;..~:~:r..:::·:'~.::,::::::·::::~:~·:.:·.::·::·:·~~; :~:~ ::,':::,~·~::~:~:::~:~·:::'::: ....,
Continental Hair Styling 
306 Sherland Cl1.Jg . 
South Ben<\ lnd. 
STUDENT RATES
2340811 


By Appt., 
• 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 1970

PAGE 4 THBO~ 
I I 
~ 
Diamond success hinges at Mound 
by Jim Donaldson Florida, where they will play six defensively and our hitting star footballer Joe Theismann. With the signing of Furlong to games in the Hurricane Tourney appears to have improved over Theismann didn't play last a Mets' contract, junior
Observer Sports Writer hosted by the University of last year." Assistant Coach John season because of spring football right-hander Ron Schmitz will 
With the coming of spring the Miami. Counsell adds, "We've lost just pra_ctice but this season Coach assume the role of no. 1 college baseball season moves one regular from last year's Kline and Ara have worked out chucker. Schmitz possesses a live into full swing and the thump of On the eve of the trip head 14-10 club so we'll be fielding a an agreement where Joe will be fast ball and good and
curve basketballs on hardwood is coach Jake Kline was veteran team. The boys have also able to play in most of the posted a 5-l record last season drowned out by the crack of ash "optimistic". "I think we've got gotten a lot of work indoors this baseball games and still keep his with a 2.53 ERA. His fine meeting horsehide. The opening a good club with great spring-the ACC is terrific for hand in the pigskin sport. Coach control enabled him to fan 41 of the 1970 rounders schedule enthusiasm, spirit, and talent. batting practice and it has Counsell said of "Twiggy", batters while yielding just 19 will see the Fighting Irish nine I've been pleased thus far-w~ helped us get our timing down." "He's capable and has a strong walks in 53 and a third innings in '69.
embarking on a trip to Miami, should be very strong arm-we know he can respond to Left-hander
~l~r8==....==========================;=;:::::::::::::::::====!=======================:===:=========================================================================~~~~ Although the Irish will be pressure." Dennis Patrylo, a Jim Phelps, a 
hurt by the signing of ace senior who won 4 of 5 decisions 
junior who saw limited action:l:l Mike Pavlln :;::: pitcher Nick Furlong to a last spring, is the leading backup last year provides Notre Dame procontract and the graduation man for Theismann at this stage with an outstanding 1-2 punch of last year's captain and starting of the season. on the hill. Phelps' ERA last 
third sacker Tom Lux, prospects year was a mere 2.03 in 40 I w do appear bright for the corning Flanking Lucke in the Irish innings of work. outfield will be Senior Rob 
I The Irish Eye I 
This the last issue of the Observer before Easter, is my last as year. 
Notre Dame's No. 3 and No. 4 Votier in right and either JoeSports' Editor. It ends a three-year hitch with the staff, two as a hurlers on the Florida junketShining brightest among the McCarthy, a junior, or Paulsports reporter, which proved to be-well, an education. 

will be senior Southpaw Mike

returning veterans are Bill Orga, Horan another. junior, in left.
Each year that I have worked for the Sports Department, the load Karkut who was ineligible last
top hitter on the '69 team, and Votier hit .236 in '69 and, withhas gotten heavier, especially this year when I took over from Terry year but posted a fine season incenterfielder Rich Lucke, called fine tabbed as
O'Neil with the absolute minimum of technical experience. As a speed, has been the Cape Cod League last
by coach Counsell "one of the the Irish leadoff batter for theHistory major, I face my principal piece of work-Senior summer, and freshman leftynation's top ball players-he runs Florida trip. McCarthy hit justSeminar-next year and I just won't be able to handle both loads. 
Rick Eich who has shown goodThings have come a long way since freshman year when O'Neil well, has a strong arm and is a .13 7 last season but is known to potential in spring workouts. 

fine hitter." Orga, a senior first carry a much more potent batand I waged a losing battle to get room for sports. In the days of the Right-handers Jerry Fenzel, abaseman, hit safely more than than the statistics show andthree-day-a-week Observer, we were constantly slighted. Minor and sophomore, and Dan Curran, ahalf his trips to the plate last Horan (.250 in '69) is recognized club sports received almost no coverage, not because we didn't senior, should also get some spot
season, connecting 17 times in as a power hitter. 
report them, but because the Editor-in-Chief had no room for them. 
starts during the season.

33 at-bats for a phenomonal
The Dome chastised us that year for our ridiculous sports coverage, Behind the plate, the Irish Heavily counted on this
.515 average. Orga also drove
and rightly so. would once again classify as season to act as fireman of the
home 12 runs in '69, ranking
Yet the Dome last year, and the campus in general this year, have "solid". Senior switch-hitter Joe staff will be senior lefty Bob
second in that department.
disappointed me greatly. O'Neil did a tremendous job last year, Keenan, no. 3 hitter last year Jaeger. The top reliever on the
Lucke banged the ball at a .295
turning out sports pages four and five times a week, running columns with a .326 average, returns to club, Jaeger posted a 1-1 mark
clip last year, gathering 32 total
by Terry Hanratty and Bob Arnzen, putting out the Football head the receiving corps but a last season with a 4.16 ERA and
bases, tops on the club, on 23
Specials, and treating the student body to his wonderful prose fine freshman prospect, Bob struck out 16 batters in 17 and ahits.
excursions in the Irish Eye. Yet the Dome did not deign to mention Roemer, is slated for plenty of third innings. If the need arises, our I ,000% improvement, and its over-all disparaging tone used in action this spring. A linebacker
A good ball club is always Jaeger is also capable of going
commenting on the Observer seemed to say, "Ho-h urn, the Observer on the frosh football squad,
sound up the middle and the '70 the distance. 
comes out five days a week, so what." Roemer is a tough competitor
Irish appear to have the critical The Irish will play a practice
This year, I wrote this column infrequently because I haven't the and can swing the bat equally
shortstop and second base game in Miami on Saturday and
talent and because I'd rather print regular sports news. Besides well from both sides of the
positions capable filled. Captain then begin play in the Hurricane
replacing the Football Special with ones dealing with Basketball and plate.
Nick Scarpelli, a senior, leads the tourney on Monday, playing 6
Hockey, we have offered Mr. Jim Murray, in my opinion the best team from his spot at second If injuries beset the Irish, games in as many days, finishing sports writer in the co1,mtry. 
base. A steady performer, play on Saturday, April 4. Notre
Coach Kline has some capableDespite being only a junior, I have more seniority than anyone on 
Scarpelli batted .250 last year talent on the bench he can call Dame will oppose Miami (Fla.),
the staff. There are many "rookies" on this paper who are trying 
and also shone afield, upon with confidence. Utility Michigan State, and Colgate,extremenly hard to do a good job. Only someone who has worked 
committing just 4 errors in 129 playing each team twice while in 
infielder Bill Schoen, a junior,for us can know the health and grade-destroying hours kept by the 
chances. The other half of Notre carries a good glove and can play the Sunshine State.
Night Editors and lay-out people. It was this sort of work which 
Dame's keystone combo is every infield position.
drove away O'Neil, Don Holliday, and Phil Bosco, all talented people Early in the spring every
junior Phil Krill. The flashy
who couldn't take it any more. Sophomore Tommy O'Connor coach looks forward to a fineshortstop combined with also shows fine potential and
This is why the charges against the Observer all this year and season with hopeful eyes. For
Scarpelli to turn 27 double plays should see plenty of action.
particularly during election time were so personally galling to me. coaches Kline and Counsell, the
in 24 games last season-an Terry McPrang, a junior, soph
This newspaper is taken so much for granted it is sickening. prospects appear bright-the
outstanding total. Although Krill Nick O'Connor, and freshman
Now that that's out of the way, I'll get my farewell over with. potential is there. The defense is
hit only . 216 he collected his to
The sports coverage this year would not have been possible with Gary Trick are all available the club's biggest asset and gives 
safeties when they counted, handle outfielding chores. 
out great assistance of Guy DeSapio. The editors who preceded me added strength to what appears
driving in 12 runs, and displayed 
could have cared less about sports, but Guy has bent over back wards But it's pitching that plays a to be a sound pitching corps.
power from the right side of the
to help me. He has deferred to my wishes in virtually all aspects of predominant role in the game Combined with a hoped-for
plate by belting a pair of
the Sports Page. When I asked for Jim Murray (costing $5.00 a and it's on the mound that the improvement on last season's
homers.
week), Guy said, "Go ahead" without a question. And whatever Irish must get solid· .249 team batting mark, the room I needed for my coverage, I got. Tabbed as Lux's replacement performances if th~y are to have Irish could improve considerably 
I depend for my official information upon the Sports Information at· the hot corner for the Irish is a successful year. on the '69 squad's 14-10 slate. Office. I think I must have set a record this past year for time spent bothering Mr. Roger Valdiserri and Mr. Ted Haracz for statistics, 
passes, and releases. With their help, for which I am especially 
• 

grateful, the Basketball and Hockey Specials would have suffered severely. 
LeSage, Theissen key w1n 
My staff this year numbered six, which believe it or not is higher than I can remember in three years. Three of my assistants are freshmen who have done excellent jobs since they joined. Crucial wins in the No. 2 and Reilly off balance, but could other singles could have meant 
Steve O'Connor and Bruce Kennedy joined over the winter and I No. 4 singles propelled Notre hardly even get his racquet on victory going into the doubles_. immediately threw them into the breech. They have responded with Dame's resurgent tennis squad to Reilly's darts. Pulling himself together with 

fine coverage of some of the winter sports. Jim Donaldson walked a 9-1 triumph over Western his wife on the sidelines, LaSage, 
The complexion of the mate\,
into our office early in the year and made the mistake of saying he Michigan yesterday afternoon in who was No. I last year, surviv­
changed, however, when WMU's 
was willing to work. I immediately claimed him and put him to work the Convo Center. The meet, the ed an early service break to win
Bill Richards dumped Bob
covering a multitude of things ranging from freshman football to first of the spring season, was the deciding set 64. And Theiss­
"Bounce" O'Malley in three sets 
varsity basketball to wrestling. I haven't had to teach him anything held indoors due to the cold en, called "Mr. Sunshine" by his
while Bernie LaSage and Gil
and he'll bear watching. weather. The meet figured to be Theissen fell behind in their mat­teammates, reversed form and ' Besides being one of the better basketball players you'll find at easy since the Irish have their ches at No.-2 and No. 4 singles. coasted by Pat Birney 6-2, 6-1.
the Rock, Jack Schaefer is a fine writer who has contributed to the top talent returning, but for This gave the Irish an insur­basketball coverage as well as working on Interhall football. "Dyno" awhile those two singles matches The temperamental Theissen· mountable 5-l lead, clinchingDon Kennedy managed the entire Hockey load by himself. He's been hung in the balance. dropped his first set 8-6 and the mlltch. 
on our staff for a year and a half and will take over the Scholastic The No.'s I, 3, and 5 singles LaSage, after drubbing Frederick LaSage-Reilly, Brown-Theiss­
sports editorship next year. matches opened the contest and Verkade, 6-1, suffered a service en, and Greg Murray-Schefter all My successor is Terry Shields, a junior from Pittsburgh (seems to ND took a 2-1 lead. In the break and lost the second set took their doubles matches inbe a major qualification for the office this year). He's been with us amazingly mis-matched No. I 8-6. Although freshmen Rob two sets apiece, with only onealmost as long as I have and has helped me a great deal this year. He singles, ND's Buster Brown des­Schefter was well on his way to 

set going more than 64.
tells me that as a CA major, he'll have plenty of time to work on the troyed Jerry Smith, 6-0, 6-l. paper next year and I'll see if I can hold him to that. Dominating all aspects of com­
The final thank-you's in this rather long list go to my co-workers petition, Brown, a soph who was on the Observer and to the Student Union IBM typists under the ineligible last year, completed direction of Rob Browning. They have put up with an immense load the conquest in only 35 minutes. of stirring invective, loud-voiced complaining, and general all around At No. 3, Irish left-hander Mike cussedness which I have displayed this year. It will always be a Reilly used his devasting serve to source of wonderment to me why I wasn't tossed out the window on get by Rick Westhoff, 6"3, 6-3. several occasions this year. The slight, blond Westhoff used 
Good luck, Terry. a fine spin ground game to keep 

