


SLC puts off parietal hours vote 
conseq uenccs of parietal hours bill in its present form would system which he felt would not that was the main goal of the by Bill Carter including individual student's mean the Hall Life Board would be in the best interests of the 'recommendation. Both felt this 
In an extended 1.ession of the rights for th~ purpose of maintain a veto to prevent University. would be a large step toward Student Life Council last night providing a comprehensive against over-extension of parietal McKenna and Prof. John Hall Autonomy which they felt the parietal issue which had been hours. Specifically, he said he H9uck argued that imposing represented the ideal situation
rationale for procedures in the 
on the agenda for a number of feared the possibility of some such limitation would be an for future life on campus.
future. Both McKenna and Fr. 
hall Passl.ng an "open parietal" · d. t · 1 · f
weeks was finally brought to the Edgar Whelan also on the Hall tmme ta e vto atton o the trust (Continued on page]) floor. Though the meeting ran 
Life Board, opposed this close to an hour overtime a vote 
measure on the grounds that it 
on the central issue of 
would impede the proposedindependent Hall control of self-regulation policy for each parietal regulations was put off 
h a II co nccrning parietal 
once again. 
procedures. The motion was The issue opened with the passed however, by a vote of presentation of the Report of 
14-7. 
the llall Life Board which The second proposal provedconcerned itself solely with the to be far more controversial. As 
parietal question. Student Body stated by McKenna, it providedpresident Phil McKenna as that "each individual hall shall 
chairman of the Board spoke for formulate procedures of the hall the report. lie stated that all the for parietal hours." McKenna's 
memhns of the hoard felt that 
proposal also called for the thl' parietal issue was only one procedures to he 0gc\. up after which the Board c·onsidercd consultation with Ute Hall Life 
important to student life. The Board and fur the new systemsBoard. however. had been to take cffl'cl on March 6,assigned the task of settling th~: before the upcoming student 
prohlem of recommended 
body president election could 
changes for the parietal 
make the issue a political one. 
procedures since there was the 
The Administration immediate ne~,;cssily of reporting -4 I ..
rcprescntatiws raised immediate tor of Security commented recently on tlte increasing use of drugs on thethe progress of the parietal 
objections to the 
"experiment" to the Board of 
recommendation. Mr. PhilipTrustees. 
Facenda contin.tally pointed out The report contained an 
Security receives drug use rumors
that any action of the SLC was evaluation of the pre.sent parietal contingent on the decisions of by Tom Bornholdt Pears referred to it, was said to tics at Notre Dame and said thatsystem and how successful it has the Trustees who would not be In an interview last week, be sold for about $3.50 on he did not know of any immi­been. The conclusions drawn by meeting again until March 21 . 
Arthur Pears, Director of Securi­campus. Pears said that he knew nent drug raid.
the Board were that the system 
McKenna argued that the 
ty, revealed that campus security of no "hard drugs" such as "If they arc planning any­has not been a very successful Council's duty was to act in was recetvtng a considerable heroin or cocaine on campus. He thing, they sure haven't contact­
one. Three specific 
behalf of student's life and their 
number of unconfirmed reports said, howe·.·er, there were a few e<;l me," said Pears.
recommendations for changes interests. He explained that the on the u~e of drugs on campus. indications that LSD was present While an occasional quantitywere made. 
issue the Hall Life Board was Pears said, however, that securi­here. of "pot" is confiscated, the vastThe first proposal concerned most concerned with was the ty was hampered by the fact Pears categorically denied that majority of marijuana finds littlean examination of the legal 
relation of student's to each 
these reports were often mere campus security had not, in the trouble in reaching student cus­
consequences involved in 
other and that this 
rumors. past, does now or plans to in the tomers, he claimed. Pears admit­women's visitation. Fr. James recommendation was important
Shilts felt that this Marijuana was the drug over­future, usc students to "spy" on ted that· a determined, patient
to indicate a basic trust in the whelmingly mentioned. As proof other students about the use of student will eventually get somerecommendation was incomplete University community between of its presence on campus, Pears drugs. He also denied any "pot", no matter how hard theand offered an amendment administration and students. 
produced a recently confiscated rumors that campus security was authorities try to intercept the
which proposed the 
Student representative Guy
establishment of a panel package of marijuana. Wrapped in any way aiding the FBI on a flow of drugs to Notre Dame.
DeSapio was opposed to the in a clear plastic bag and weigh­drug crackdown. Pears claimed Still Pears felt that with bettercomprised, of several SLC 
mellsure. He asked whether the ing a few ounces, the "pot", as no knowledge of any FBI activi­
members to examine all the (Continued on page 2) 
Notre Dame campus. 
•
C.O.: the just war theory 1n the nuclear ·age 
by Rich Smith and David Lammers victory for justice; nuclear wea;:JOns was, after all. effective used, where a child once born has a 50-50 
f) be waged with right intentions; (one in achieving the desired end, i.e.,. the chance of living two years?
(Second in a six-part series) 
would like to know how a person can kill removal of the missiles. But what if the ·Last December, a federal judge in San With the advent of the nuclear wea­lovingly); 
move had not succeeded? What if we had Francisco granted a conscientious pons, the "just wars" of the past no g) use methods that are legitimate, i.e., miscalculated, had made a mistake, had objector classification to a man on the longer serve as a jumping off point for 
in accordance with man's nature as a lost control of the situation? grounds that the man was a practising our arguments. The justice and morality rational being, with Christian moral the' crucial point is that a bomb with Catholic and that for him, participationof war in the nuclear age where millions principles and international agreements. 
the killing capability of a nuclear bomb in Vietnam was in violation of the justof people can die in a matter of minutes The obvious problem with the just war marks a sharp break in history. Man is "Jar doctrine of his church. The grantingmust be examined in the awareness of (outside of the problem with nuclear dealing with an entirely new situation of "selective'. conscientious objection isthis break with the history of man in the weapons) is that every nation has judged with a set of rules that are not applicable an important precedent in our courtpre-nuclear era. As James Douglass says in its side and its actions to be "just", in the present situation. 
system, for it recognized the
his book, The Non-violent Cross, man has "right", "honorable", "necessary", "a 
responsibility of every moral man toentered "The Eschatological Era." But last resort." The Arabs fight their "holy jedge the justice of the war he is asked tothe ability of man to deal with the total war" to regain territories historically The Church "leaders" are an example. 
participate in.
threat of nuclear weaponry lags far They condone the possession of nuclear
theirs; the Jews defend their national Many are unwilling to say that there isbehind his ability to create such tools. arsenals as a deterrent force, yet they say
existence. The conflict of justice among no time that killing might be justifiable.
Is the doctrine of the just war, inherent that any intention to usc the weapons is
nations is not decided by theologians Many Notre Dame students refused to in Western and Christian thought for immoral. The bishops must have been
perusing the pluses and minuses of both support the drive for selective
centuries, still applicable today? totally unaware of th~ position of the
sides or the cost in lives that justice conscientious objection because of 
St. Augustine and St. Thomas were the United Stat-es, as expressed by Robert
demands. The failure of the just war "potential anarchy." Yet it seems that 
chief formulators of the just war McNamara, that we would, indeed, use
doctrine to insure peace and justice is the onrushing military debacle will only
doctrine. For a war to be "just" it must our nuclear weapons if necessary, i.e., if
only too obvious. be prevented when men perceive that 
a) have been undertaken by a lawful our susurvival as a nation were power politics can not resolve our authority; threatened. 
conflicts, that the threat of nuclear war b) have been undertaken for the In a nuclcarized world the hope of Limited wars such as Vietnam, where a cannot be justified, that our personalvindication of an undoubted right that justice no longer lies in the feeble hope nuclear nation "protects" the rights of a destinies must not be given up to the men had been certainly infringed; that the "good guys" wil hold the group against another hand also that arc not aware that we arc no longer · c) be a last resort, all peaceful means of military edge, that the force of supported by a nuclear antion must be playing the old game. 
settlement having failed; "democracy" will outracc the force of examined against the just war theory and 
d) offer the possibility of the good to "totalitarianism." against the nuclear sword. Is a person 
be achieved outweighing the evils that We examine the Cuban missile crisis justified in fighting in a war where cities tonforrow: Dr. John Yoder on the war would involve; and deem it a successful political move, a and fields are indiscriminately, where theology of conscientious 
c) be waged with a reasonable hope of close brush, perhaps, but the threat of napalm and fragmentation bombs arc objection. 
PAGE 2 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17,1970
THE OBSBRJJER 

Complicity Week opens amid indifference 

by Cliff Wintrode nomic imperialism, military pro­dents who disagreed with the 
Observer Associate Editor fiteering and other ·forms of university's "open" policy to­
Complicity Week opened yes­anti-social behavior." ward the Placement Bureau to 
terday amid little notice by the Yesterday, members of the show their disapproval in a 
student body, little clamor from Coalition for Political Action peaceful and educational man-
the students participating in the and the South Bend Chapter of ner. 
activities, and official silence the New University Conference Neither Father Thornton, 
from the administration. sold a thick pamphlet containing Director of the Placement Bu-
The week is designed to fill the alleged missing facts to any­reau, or Mr. James Frick, Vice­
the students' "information gap" one who was interested as they President for Public Relations that allegedly exists between the passed by the Placement Office and Development, would make interviewing companies' job bro­in the Administration Building. any comment about the day's chures and their unstated and The Student Life Council, at a activities. little known policies on "race meeting a week ago Monday, A group of faculty members and sex discrimination. eco-passed a motion encouraging stu-will station themselves in the 
Sophs begin employment agency 
by Don Ruane 
dividual clubs will give the forms to the employers in their area
After a four year period of for consideration. 

inactivity, the Sophomore Sum­Sophomores that are goingmer Employment Agency will home at Easter will have a per­begin work this week to help sonal interview with their pros­members of the sophomore class pective employer. Those stu­secure summer jobs in the area dents that remain on campus orof their homes. 
go somewhere besides home will Sophomore Class President be interviewed by other means,Joe Stankus said yesterday, that such as a written interview. Themembe~s. of the class would re­applicant may get a job in hisceive newsletters this week tell­own area or in another throughing them where they may obtain the help of the Alumni Associa­and complete the applications tion. Stankus emphasized how­necessary for participation in ever that jobs are not guaranteedthe program. The forms will be Joe Stankus and that these applications arecentrally located in each hall. 

it., "the same as any other jobStankus described the informa­A deadline for the completed applications."
tion requested in the application applications is Monday, Febru­Stankus could not give anas "general things such as where ary 23. They will be collected by estimate of how many sopho­you live, what type of work you representatives of t.:e Sopho­mores are expected to partici­prefer and have you had any more Council and they will tum pate. He expects applicationsexperience." 
the forms over to John Amer­from other classes and addedThe program was originated ena, chairman of the agency. that these will not receive pri­four years ago in cooperation Amerena will process the appli­mary consideration since thewith the Alumni Asociation, cations according to alumni program is for the benefit of theand proved to be rather success­clubs and then giye them to the Sophomore class. Stankus asked ful. It was discontinued after the Alumni Association for distribu­that any interested sophomorefirst year because, as Stankus tion to the alumni clubs that can not get an application,puts it, "No one ever contacted throughout the nation. The in-contact John Amerenathe Alumni Association about general vicinity of the Placement to challenge the existing "values Bureau today until the end of and basic priorities" of our so­Complicity Week to "mediate" ciety and that "they (the q ues­in case of a confrontation and to tioning students) seemed to be act as a stimulus to discussion of doing that and I think it is a 
the issues involved. 
relevant activity." 
The faculty members are "Our presence is symbolic of 
headed by Professor John Houck the .growing new concern the 
of the Business Department and faculty has for affairs out of the Sister Suzanne Kelly, Assistant classroom," commented D'An­Professor in the General Pro­tonio. 
gram. They are operating under Houck believed that the facul­the auspices of the Notre Dame ty's presence at the Placement chapter of the American Asso­
Bureau would be a "visible signciation of University Professors. 
of our feeling that we are con­
"The purpose of the faculty cerned about the same issues 
members is to act as a mediating though we may go about solving
influence, to possibly promote them in different ways." 
dialogue if feasible, and to en­
D'Antonio considered the uni­able us to better understand the 
versity the only place where a situation ourselves," said Notre 
critical evaluation could be made 
Dame AAUP president Professor of soGiety but added that the William D'Antonio, chairman of university in the past failed to the Sociology Department. 
evaluate itself. Houck and D'Antonio ex­
He viewed the emergence of pressed similar beliefs in the the faculty as a critical element 
faculty's actions in support of 
of the university's self-question­those students who are question­
ing process the result of a "de­ing the values of society and the 
veloping and different" under­
university's role in society. 
standing of the power of the D'Antonio felt that the criti­
faculty and the role of the facul­cal function of a university was 
ty in a university structure. 


SMC discusses drugs 
by Ann Therese Darin from the association's speaker's 
Representatives from South bureau. Bend's drug addiction agencies The group showed a film on expressed concern last night in marijuana narrated by Sonny SMC's Carroll Auditorium over Bono, and then answefed the "serious" problem of drugs questions from the floor. 
in this area. On the severity of punishment 
Participating in the panel on for first offenders, Sgt. Miller drugs were Sgt. Robert Miller, stated, "We are presently drug and narcotics bureau, rehashing air of the laws. I, South Bend Police; Lewis E. personally, feel that a user Mundell, president of the South shouldn't be charged with a B e n d P h a r m a c e u tical felony on the first offense." Association; and Sgt. Miller's Questioned on the seriousness 


brother, Larry, representative· of drugs on the Notre
• 

'Dame-SMC campus, MillerPIan no sfudenf SpieS responded, "The s~curity guards
EN61NEERIN6 GRADUATES 
report some evidence of

(Continued from page 1) . 
student cooperation there would were ~enhoned more tha_n marijuana and pep pills on the be less drugs floating around, ?thers m reports _about man-campuses." and less students using them. JUana. He also said that two "We are not working closely 
"Often we will receive a call rectors had reported the use of with the situation," he added. saying that "pot" is being "pot" in their halls. Pears said "The St. Joseph County sherrifs th t f the h 11 ep ted by and Notre Dame-SMC security
smoked on campus," complain-a one 0 a s r or I·ts rector was also on·e of the police have J·urisdiction in these
ed Pears, "so, of course, we will ' 
'th t. bl 1 circumstances." ·h ll

ask who is smoking it? He a s WI a no Icea y arge
Ebasco ill doesn't know. Where is it being share of complaints. During the questioning, smoked? He doesn't know. And Pears said. that he and Fr.· examples of the drugs discussed so forth. What are we expected James Riehle, Dean of Students, hallucinogens, opiates, heroin, to do with information like had received no complaints from and barbituates were exhibited. that?" Fr. Hesburgh or any other ad-Among future actions Pears felt that students would ministration official on the han-anticipated by the agencies are
Interviewoncampus usually not report an incident of dling of the drug problem by plans for a half-way house marijuana for fear that it would campus security. Neither had modeled after those in Detroit, get their friends in trouble. This, Pears received any complaints New York City, and Chicago to claimed Pears, prevented them from any faculty-stu~ent and/or be located in downtown South from informing campus security alumni group. Bend. even when a student was experi­
encing a dangerous allergic react­More bello presents recital tonight ion or· a "bad trip" from the Ronald J. More bello, pianist Frazer in San Diego;-whe.re he
It's find out time! Time for you to find out the role 

drug. On this matter, Pe;trs re­played many recitals and appear­
and instructor in music at St.
you might play in the company that has designed 

vealed that somewhat recently a ed on nine occasions as sOloist
Mary's, will present his initial 
or constructed over 8 billion dollars of.fossil fuel, 

student was iaken to St. Joe with the San Diego County
faculty recital at 8:00 p.m. to­

Hospital for just such a reaction. Symphony.
hydroelectric and nuclear plants. 
night. The public is invited to ~He subsequently studied ~Concerning the frequency of attend the free recital which will New York as a scholarship stu­

There's never been a more exciting time to join 

marijuana use at Notre Dame, he be held in the Moreau Hall Little dent at the Julliard School of Music and received both his B.S. 
Eb3sco. Forecasts call for electrical power 

said, "From what I have heard Theater. 
from the directors of security at Morebello will perform works
systems three times the size of our present 

other universities, I'd say that by Mozart, Chopin, Stravinsky, and M.S. degrees in piano while the use of marijuana here is and Ravel. studying under Irwin Freund­
national systems. As an engineer at Ebasco, 
you'll be in the forefront of this activity. Ebasco 

about average." Morebello received his early lich.
engineers always have been. 

He added later that two halls training in piano from Arthur In I 965, Morebello was ap­r----------------------------, pointed to the piano faculty of
See your Placement Director soon to arrange a 


Stephens College, Columbia,
Q&A session with the Ebasco representative on 
Missouri. While he was complet­
the above date. If this is not convenient, write to 
ing his tour of duty with the 
College Relations Coordinator, Department 122, 


(r!'ftsmen in Qptics U.S. Army, More bello served on 
Ebasco Services Incorporated, Two Rector 
the theory faculty of the Armed

FOR THE FINEST EYEGL~SSES 
Forces School of Music in Nor­
Street, New York, New York 10006. An Equal 

AND CONTACT lENf.ES -­Opportunity Employer. 
folk Virginia. ---------,

THE SHHRLAND BL[)G. 
132 S. MICHIGAN ST. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except·

Centra/2-1468 
vacations . by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College, Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The

EBASCO 

~fii!Se oJ-Vt$i4Jt ~ 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.--Chicago 
Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46!\56. 

CfueSOAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1970 
PAGE 3 




Organize Biafra c_ollection 

by Marty Graham 
Members ol Notre Dame's Student Senate will take up col­lections in the dining halls on · Wednesday and Thursday night in behalf of Students for Biafran Relief. 
A bill introduced by John Zimmerman at last Thursday's senate meeting concerning this collection was passed by concen­sus. 
Tom Hamilton, a freshman at Notre Dame and chairman for the Students for Biafran Relief, spoke In favor of the bill before the senate members. He stated the purposes of the organization and assured the senators that the 
· collected funds would be han­dled by the Red Cross in order to insure that any money col­Miss Janice E. Wheaton, SMC's newly appointed Director of lected would do the most possi-
Placement Services and Student Personnel. ' 
SMC appoints placement director 
Miss Janice E. Wheaton has been named Director of Place­ment Services -Student Person­nel for Saint Mary's Colle_ge. 
Before coming to Saint 
Mary's, Miss Wheaton had gained 
an extensive background in 
teaching grades 3 through col­
lege in Michigan schools and had 
been principal of St. Patrick 
High School in Portland, Michi­
gan. She had also been director 
of guidance at Catholic high 
schools in Kalamazoo and Flint, 
Michigan, and had most recently 
he Id a similar position at 
Dempsie Brewster School in 
Deland, Florida. 
Miss Wheaton, who received a 

BA degree from Narareth Col­
lege in Nazareth, Michigan, and 
an MA degree from Notre Dame, 
did postgraduate work in 
guidance and counseling at 
Western Michigan University and 
at the Flint Extension of Eastern 
Program ready 
Theodore W. Hengesbach, instructor in theology at St. Mary's, will be the initial speaker at the Collttge's Department of Religious Studies lecture series on Wednesday, February 18, 1970. 
Mr. Hengesbach will speak on "Karl Rahner: Orthodox Here­tic" at 8:00 p.m. in the Made­leva Building's Carroll Hall. The meeting will be open to the public with no admission charge. 
Mr. Hengesbach, who holds a 

B.A. degree from Sacred Heart College in Detriot and an M.A. degree from .the University of Notre Dame, joined the Saint Mary's College faculty in 1966. lie had previously taught at Marygrove College in Detroit. 
Other lectures in the series will be given by Harold D. Weiss on March 18; Helen Cartier Withey on April 14; and Sister Maria Assunta Werner, C.S.C., on May 6, I '.J70. 
Michigan University. of Indiana; the Florida Personnel 
She is a member of the Mid­and Guidance Association; and west College Placement Associa­was secretary of the Lansing tion; the Association for School, Diocesan Guidance Committee College, and University Staffing in 1968-69. 
"Outlook for the Decade" is I 0:00 a.m. -"Mutual Funds the theme of the Fianance of the 1970's"; Kenneth C. Club's twelfth annual finance Mulkey, Registered Representa­forum; Forum '70. The dates of live Mutual Fudn Accounts, In-Forum '70 will be Monday and corporated, Inglewood, Cali-Tuesday, February 23 and 24. fornia The program will feature 1:15 p.m.-"Recent Develop­nat io na lly prominent busi-ments in lnternation Monetary ncssmen with expertise in the Affairs": John S. Lazar, Vice fields of economics, foreign President, Director of Research, finance, credit banking, Thomson and McKinnon, New 
mortgage banking, and mutual r-----------__;_ 
SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 
Presents 
~'WAIT UNTil. DARK'' 
W ashin~ton Hall 7:00 & 9:00 Mon. Feb. 16 & Tues. Feb. 17 $1.00 Admission 
ble good. 
The Students for Biafran Re­lief will pass this money on to the American Red Cross which will then turn it over to the International Red Cross. Its final destination will be the Nigerian Red Cross. 
Hamilton, the originator of the organization, sent letters to student publishers at 1,500 uni­versities asking them to form campus charters of the Students for Biafran Relief. He set as his 
final goal one million dollars. 
lfe spent this semester in Washington, D.C. in order to gain influential support of his organization. He gained support of such figures as Senators Birch Bayh of Indiana and Edmund Muskie of Maine, and Congress­man Brademas of the district of South Bend. 
He named University Presi­dent Rev. Theodore Hesburgh and Director of Foreign' Service Rev. Daniel O'Neil as the coordi­nating advisors of the Students for Biafran Relief. 
Proposal allows halls Individual procedures 
(Continued from page 1) 
With only a few minutes remaining in the extended time of the meeting the question was called. The vote on whether to vote on the question was 12 to 8 in favor, but since a two-thirds vote was required, the vote 
Forum checks outlook for 70's 
funds. TheJeatured speakers will share with us their own personal and academic points of view which will be of primary impor­tam;e in the financial analysis of our economic future. 
The program will be held in the Memorial Library Audi­torium and is free to all who wish to attend-students of all colleges, faculty, area business­men, and so on. Each talk will be followed by a question and 
answer period. Cancelled cuts will be available for all business students who attend. The out­line/schedule of the forum is as follows: Monday, February 23 
I 0:0 a.m. -"The U.S. Dollar at Home and Abroad"; Harry L. Sebel, Advisor, Security Super­visors Incorporated, Chicago 
I :00 p.m. -"Financial Trends in the 1970's"; Dr. Wiliam C. Freund, Vic President and Economist, New York Stock Ex­change 
2:15 p.m. "Your Life Wrapped up in Plastics--The Fu­ture of Credit Cards"; James E. Brown, Senior Vice President Mercatile Trust Company, St. Louis 
3:30p.m. -"Mortgage Flows; Problems and Prospects"; Dr. Joseph R. Ewers, President, Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis. Tuesday, February 24 York. 
Organizers of the forum said, "The Finance Club sincerely en­courages you to share the inter­esting and informative insights into the commercial world by the men who comprise it. Take advantage of this worthwhile opportunity. Your personal comments and suggestions will be fully appreciated."
__;:,_...:....::_....=..:..:...:..._ 
could not be taken. 
Fr. Whelan expressed disappointment that the issue had been delayed once again by extended rhetoric in the Council. lie said that he had hoped the council would be able to get something done on the question to offer the student some basis to believe that there was some action being taken on parietals. At the close of the meeting many of the members 

were .still calling for extensive written reports ' on parietal violations and rationales for any proposed changes in the system. A second meeting this week was Wled out and nothing more will be done on the issue until the meeting next Monday. · 
__: --. 





All the World Loves a Lover. Especially People with Something to Sell. 
Getting married can cost a lot of money. In fact, sometirnes marriage seems like a conspiracy to bankrupt the bride and groom. 

But Vanity Fair is on your side. For years, we've been selling the finest engagement and wedding rings to students for far less than they would poy in a retail jewelry store. 
Such savings are possible because we handle the whole process of making a ring ourselves, from buying the diamond in Antwerp to selling rt to you on your campus. 
And only Vonity Fair knows how to keep costs down without compromising quality. A look at our new 36-page, full-color cotalog will convince you of that. This coupon plus 25¢ wiil bring it to you. Or if you prefer, visit our showrooms at 55 E. Washington St., Chicago. 
r---------~---------------------------,
Vanity fair Diamonds Enclosed is 25¢. Please send me the 1970 vanity Fair catalog. I 
... --... 
,. I 
... , , I 

NAME__________________________________ ; 
.__I 
' Scotch tape Quarter
ADDRESS 
here 

,.:--1I 
' ' ,., 
..... --... I 
I 
I

CITY _______________STATE ______.___ZIP _______ 
I 
I 
SCHOOL 
-----I
I 
Mail to: 
I 

Vanity Fair Diamonds, 55 E. Washir.gton Strs<:.t, 
I

Chicago, Illinois 60602. 
I 

-------------------------------------~ 

._ ...~-: .• .. "' 

Editorial Middle East diplomacy 
The tumultuous welcome that Egyptian President Nasser received in Cairo on Friday points out that lstael efforts to soften Arab arrogance may be back firing on her. 
The statements coming out of Israel suggest that the Israeli government is trying to keep the Egyptians, and in turn their other Arab neighbors, from feeling that they can regain their lost territory through military means. Through a series of hit and run attacks, including the carting away of two radar stations the Israelis are trying to show that 
TUESDAY, FI::BRUARV 17,1970 

., thoqht every weekend Will ..e a footW weekewd.•• 
they are not ah opponent the Arabs will be able to push 
around militarily. The Israelis hope that the· strikes will 
soften the tone of the Arab leaders and force them to 
realize that they must reach a political settlement in the 
Near East. 

Thursday an Israelis air strike hit an industrial plant 
outside of Cairo killing over 50 people. Israel claims that a 
plane bombed the plant by mistake. Mistake or not the 
raid was costly both in human lives and in the effect that it 
will have in further deterioration of the Egyptian-Israeli 
relationship. 

Instead of encouraging the Arabs to come to the negotiating table Israel's military posture has only strengthened the resolution for war that many of the .t\rab nations hold. Nasser's Cairo welcome, even after he had offered to resign because of the Israeli strike, proves that at least the Egyptians are closer to war today because of the military moves. By continuing the raids near urban · centers the Israelis are only endangering the lives of civilians unnecessarily and jarring already shaky ground. We feel that the raids must be stopped as a first step to 
assuring that there is not a repeat of the 1967 war. 
New African policy 
Secretary of State William Rog~;rs is on a tour of Africa 
which we hope will help bring the emerging African states 
closer to the United States. 

For many years, the United States has worn out its welcome in many of the emerging nations of the Far East, Near East, Sou'Ch America, and Africa. American business, looking to tap the wealth, of natural resourses of the areas, moved in and established new industries -often without COi1'Cern for the people of the area, their heritage anc their political aspirations. Often our government's policy was equally as blind. Either out of bloated self-assuredness or in the name of protecting our interest we have attempted to influence the political destinies of emerging states. 
Often we have aided the country in question' and have 
developed a mutually happy'and beneficial relationship. In 
alot of instances, though, we have alienated many people. 
·President Nixon's new Asia policy of self-help and 
United States economic, and political aid only when 
requested is a first step tov.'?rd reversing a bad policy. 
Secretary Roger's statements on his African tour suggest that the Nixon's Asian policy will be carried over to that continent. We feel such a foreign policy orientation will help shore up our relationships with emerging states and in the long run will be more beneficial to both their development and our interests. 
Joseph Wemhoff, Business Mgr. Feature Editor: Dave Stauffer The, 'QPinio}ls in the editorials. Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. Night Editor: Dave Bach, John Knorr news an..viift: and columns of THE News Editor: Glen Corso layout Design: Mary Chris Morrison OBSERVER, are 10lely tf1ose of the SMC News Editor: Prue Wear layout: Ann Conway, Tom Law, authors and editon of THE OB· 
Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Jeanne Sweeney SERVER and do not necessarily Ann Conway, Jeanne Sweeney Headlines: Jim Graif reflect the views of St: ~·s Layout Editor: Mary Ellen Burke Ad layout: Jim Flanagan College, the Universfty ot Notre Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Dame, their edministratiQ~ fej:ulty 
or stUdent bodies: ' 


Letters to tiJe Editor 
No Amusement only engaged in because exer­cising one's wit can be anDear Slerts: ego-boost, and fun, and that sort 
I am appalled at your opposi-of thing. tion to the games formally displayed in the Huddle, espe-• It's even getting turned on to cially the submarine game. I good things that you wouldn't know of a number of students have bothered to turn your head 
who thoroughly enjoyed towards otherwise -like, I amusing themselves with that suppose, needlepoint. I mean, game. you'd be amazed how you can 
On Friday and Saturday get into needlepoint. It's like nights, whenever I had a happy, eatin~ potato chips. funny feeling inside my head (not due tg alcohol), I thor­And, on the other hand, it's 
oughly enjoyed the wild colors finding out that there are alot of and ecstatic feeling that I rec­people out there with the same eived when I sunk an en,~my 
strange fixations you have. You, submarine. Now that the 
sir, are not the only science machine is gone, I have no 
fiction fanatic in the world. I'll l6nger anything to amuse myself 
match my library against yours with when I have "a funny, any time. happy feeling in my head." Due to the fact that I no longer have Basically, it's finding your 
anything to do to amuse myself, own kind. And if you always I will probably haffe to go on to thought you were one of a bigger and harder things, thanks you , re wrong. That discovery, 
to SLERT. alone is worth the price of ad­Sincerely, mission. (name witheld due to obvious 
reasons) By now, you may be wonder­
P.S. If anyone knows of ing what the above rambling is anything I can do to amuse all for. OK, here is The Pitch: myself now, please write in. Mensa, in case you missed the 
original article that this is a response to, is an organization made up of people in the top two percent of the population in· 
Whiz Kids 
intelligence. All you've got to do to join is prove that you're one Editor: of these by scoring appropriately 
Thanks for the article on on any s~andard IQ test. (Everyb Mensa in your features page of ody's taken an IQ test -SAT February 11. scores ar~ good enough.) 
You presented the Standard Party Line of the national office Now, a local chapter of Mensa pretty well. is being organized in the area. At 
Only one problem with that. least theoretically. Theoretically Whoever it is in New York who because I'm the local secretary, cranks out the press releases on and I haven't gotten around to Mensa needs a lobotomy. I mean mailing off letters to the mem­really. All this incredible stuff bers around here yet. Because about super brains waxing I'm disorganized as hell. weighty over Slavic languages or 
needlepoint or whatever. The point is, if you are al­
What Mensa's all about, really, ready a member of Mensa, or is coming together with a bunch · have been in the past, or would of people who are strangers, but like to be in the future, why 
nonetheless feeling you're in don't you give me a call. At the familiar territory. very least, you would be making 
It's finding people with whom a Mensa local secretary feel com­conversation is immensely sim­petent for the first time in plified because many of the weeks. experiences you've had with your head, they've gone through During the day, call 
too. 283-7166, at night, call It's not having to compete all, 232-4125. all the time intellectually. I Sincerely, mean, you're all there for only Joel R. Garr!;!au one reason, and everybody Local Secretary 
Mensa.

knows it, so one-ups-manship is 
TUE:§QAY FEBRUARY 17, 1S70 
PAGE 6 
•



Rabbit conspi racy wants Bugs 1n prime time 
Four partially sane people lurk beneath the rabbit conspiracy, but it is growing. Bunny Bury, Rabbit Rydle, Yosemite Shaw, and Bugs Stauffer collaborated to state clearly the pressing problems and day to day headaches faced in being the world's most popular rabbit: 
While SLERT and CYO have recently been quibbling over such trivial matters as death machines in the Huddle, a truly curcial issue is being neglected by the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community. 
Bugs Bunny, Warner Brothers' rabbit with a mission, has been relegated to the lowly position of a 4:00-4:30 slime-time slot on WNDU-TV. 
This perhaps would be forgivable if the perpetrator of this vile scheme were any standard commercial station. Unfortunately, said perpetrator is none other than the station owned by "The School of Our Lady." Forsooth that such a pitiable state of affairs should exist within the enfolding shadows of the Golden Dome. 
It is usually not the policy of this page to vigoriously espouse causes of vital import to God, country, and Notre Dame. However, the gravity of this situation weighs heavily on our afflicted 
minds and consciences. Our saddened souls cry out as one, "Woe!" (and when we cries woe, we means whoa!) 
Our only hope lies in community protest. The 4:00-4: 30 time slot makes it impossible for a good portion of the ND-SMC community to see the program. Thus in the interests of not letting school interfere with our educations, we are forced to cut afternoon classes. Furthermore, this spot in the program schedule is an insult to the 14-carrot drawing power of the born bastic bunny. If the time is not changed, the only alternative will be to install closed-circuit TV in the classrooms, resulting in outrageous overcrowding of those classrooms so equipped. 
Let us make this perfectly clear. In no way do we wish. to' practice any anti-Establishment violence. (The Observer staff would never stoop to the tactics of long-hare hippies.) However, if 'WNDU does not rectify . the situation 
immediately, we will be forced to release 5,000 albino rabbits in the station lobby by way of protest. (In the event of biological ignorance on the part of 
WNDU employees, it is only fair to add that 5,000 albino rabbits quickly become 50,000 albino rabbits.) 

Sorry, I can't take much more of this. 
I mean here's this writer, from New York City no less, and it takes him six pages of a nifty Sunday supplement called Viewpoint to say that the quality of American life isn't all that it should be.. Big ****. He must have made a bundle on the piece. 
The guy's even got a folksy shot of his head plopped in there.:.the expression reflective and knowing. And from a cap­tion below we hear he's won a few prizes in his time. Wow, maybe we should be a little more attentive. 
1 wouldn't be all that surprised to find that my parents have saved a copy of this ­sob story for me back home. My mother, after a perfectly timed sigh of wonder­ment, will say, "Oh, he's so right." My father, in a. tone of authority that was once his, will add "you read those screwey paperbacks of yours; well then you can read this too." Another family argument. 
No, I can't take much more of this. I've had it up to here with all you stinking cynics, I mean I've really had it up to here. You can take all your glooms and miseries, your crises, your traumas, your despairs, and stick them. 
The dude from New York and my parents aren't the only ones. I hear the same whining at parties and at meals. The same moaning and groaning in songs, in speeches, in classrooms, in groups of two or three. Bitch, bitch, bitch,. Is there no relief? 
But my will is adamant. I will not give in to the crush and might of your cynicism. I, you see, am an idealist. I am also proud. Yes, scoff and ~meer if it pleases you, laugh at me if you must. I e-xpect it anyway. So go right ahead, be my guest, have your chuckles. I could care less. 
He begins "with a new car that won't start or an old war that won't end or a dollar that won't stretch or an optimism 
. that won't revive." How pithy. He concludes that "where we are, most thinkers agree, is an untended garden, 
Pictures too. Of an egg-splattered bus window. Of junk yards and junkies. Of slums and slummers. Of a movie adver­tisement. Of a young war widow clutch­ing an American flag and near tears. Pithy and even poignant. Pass the crying towel 
I know ~·ou. I too, was once as cy~ic. I know why you brood and wrinkle your forehead& and shuffle your feet restles~Iy. I did too. Once. 
U.1til (you are going to laugh I car> tell) I discovered a new manner of looking at the world. A· manner which shatters 'and dissolves the filth and ug[ness and waste tha1 is about us. A manner which fills us wi~h a cleansing and soothing and lovely tranquillity. I d~covered the magic of the kaleidoscope. 
Is it really so hilarious? 
Won't you hear me out. Won't YO:Il wipe those stu~;id grins from your faces. Won't you listen to anyone else; or mt:st we all :lcho the same trip«? to be hea•·d? 
Damn you, you have eyes but you do not .see. Have you ever really looked into a kaleidoscope? Have you ever give.1 it a chance. Not just for kicks either,.a total surrender to it. You would not sta}' a cynic fQr long. I can almost ge:· hi~h on 
a kaleidosc-ope,' please hear me out, those thousands of slivers of broken and :;ol0r-CAF 
to p_resent Brass Quintet 
ed glass, flashing and dancing before yo•rr eyes. Endless patterns of ~elight. The slivers are slid this way and thai:, are toppled with intri.cate and dazzling de-­signs, are arranged and re-arranged, be­come finally a ballet of form and color. And the pattern, as you revolve the knob with your right hand a.1d gaze through a lens with your left eye, the patte~n evolve~ into infinity. From which it came. The enigma of the kaleidoscope. 
I got carried away. I'm seldom t~at emotional, but J believe in what I am saying. I believe in the kaleidoscope even thoueh I don't understand how it works. I h•!licve in it becauMc I see beauty in il and if I didn't believe in it I wouldn't bother with the kaleidoscope apd I would vievi the world muc~ the same as you do and I 
overgrown and wildly seeded, in which' ·vould be a cyme. human purpose has been obscurred. We But I cannot be a cynic. . . have much of what we don't want an~ I've had it up to h~re w~th) '-'u cymcc;. have almost forgotten what we do want. ' And with that wh1mpenng goon from Even pithier. New York. , 
In between is more and more and more And I cant, really can't take rmch of the same. more of this. 
And make no mistake about the support for our movement that is building within the mass media: Observer notables such as Glen "Cottontail" Corse, Thpmas "Ears" Ehrbar, Prudence "Wabbit" Wear, and Guy "Carrots" DeSapio have joined the cause. 
We appeal to all those in favor of peaceful protest, educational television, and liberty and carrots for all. Add your voice to the growing ranks of "Bugs tor Prime-Time" supporters. Preserve your hare-itage by filling out the following form and returning it to the Features Department of the Observer, Box 11 (send SMC replies to 1lox 967): 
I, ( ) [name), fully 
support the "BUgs for Prime-Time" 
campaign. 
Please add my address to the 
mailing list for literature. 
( ) [address] 
(optional) 
In my spare time (any time 
other than 4:00-4:30), I would be 
wUli!!g_ t<_>_: _ _____ _ 
I) distribute literature 
2) raise albino rabbits 
3) sell carrots Contribution($ )" 
Tips for "Prime-Time" protestors: 


-. ~...-··-·...,--....---·-·­
-


·­
.American Brass Quintet 
by Pat Clinton From at least one standpoint, it can be maintained that every child, upon entering this vale of tears, should be 
issued a kazoo, a skate key, a Duncan yoyo (the heavy transparent kil}d you just can't find any more, preferable a 
deep red) and the advice, spoken with a poke of the meerschaum and a faraway look in the eye: "If you find a good brass quintet, bind it to your heart with hoops of steel." 
Bind the American Brass Quintent to 
your heart with hoops of steel. 
The quintet, Gerard Schwarz, and Louis Ranger, trumpets; Arnold Fromme, tenor trombone; Robert Biddlecome, bass trombone; and Edward Birdwell, French. horn, was formed in 1957. They are unquestionably the finest ensemble of their type playing today. The praise heaped upon them is lavish-for example the London Daily Telegraph's statement that "it is quite impossible to overpraise the playin~ of the American Brass Quin­
tet"-but it all understates the case. 
The group's most recent recording is a collection of short works by Ametican composers which was released by None­such. It is brass music without the usual drawbacks of brass groups-heavy ponder­ousne_ss, slogpy intonation 1,md general lack of life. Attack is sure, speed is blinding and the ensemble work is fright­eningly precise, even in the 1 difficult avante garde W9rks, while retaining over­powering force (listen especially to "From the Mountains and the Valleys" by Ives) and avoidin~ mechanicalness. 
The American Brass Quintet appears at O'Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's Sat­urday, February 21, at 8 p.m. as part of the Contemporary Arts Festival. The pro­gram includes music by Ba~h, Hindemith and the brilliantly theatrical Quintet for Brass, composed for the Quintet by Alvin Brehm. Admission is free for patrons, one dollar otherwise. 
Brass music is good stuff to feed your ears with, and literally no one plays it I better than the American Brass Quintet.. "You should go hear them. 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1970

PAGE 6 




HPC plans 'Shamrocks for Dystrophy Day' 
-by Steve Lazar 
The Hall President's Council met last night to sketch plans concerning the "Shamrocks for Dystrophy Day" to be observed in South Bend on Saturday, March 14. 
Tom Parnell, District Chairman of the Muscular Dystrophy A'ssociation of 
I America, addressed the body for
I I the second time last night in his 
I effort to gain the aid (Jf Notre 
I 
Dame students in the drive for
I 
much needed funds. 
r 
ND • SMC Classof '72 
PRESENTS 
A TRIP TO HAIR 
PRICE FOR BUS AND THEATRE: $12 TI(:KETS ON SALE iN TOM DOOLEY ROOM LAFORTUNE---TONIGHT --7:30-9:30 
COMPLETE HOME SYSTEM 
With built-in amplifier and 2 deluxe stereo speaker units in handsome walnut cabinets. THE PLAYER IS FREE. We wil~ bill you only special mem­ber's price of $24.95 for s,peaker~. 0 check HOME 
According to Parnell, the framework of the drive will consist of the distribution of green and white shamrock stickers to all who make a contribution. Notre Dame students will be asked to help canvass area streets in the distribution of the stickers. Parnell stated that the drive has the blessing of Mayor Lloyd Alen of South Bend and that a good response from the public will be expected with the help of the students. 
Tony Scolaro of Alumni Hall 
IIEATEST HITS (Reprise) •....8.11 0 1130-A MAN ALONE, Frank Sinatra (Reprise) .......•.•..8.81 0 1325-HELP YOURii:.· , 
Tom Jones (Parro ........8.91 0 1325-THIS IS T JONES,
Tom Jones (Parrott) .........8.91 
o 1~~~r:~~~:· r:c~~::r?.·..8.91 D 1337-SOULFUL,
Dionne Warwick (Scepter}.•..8.91 0 1325-AIE Of AllUARIUS, 5th Dimension (Liberty) ..•...8.11 0 1111-THE BEST Of NANCY WILSON (Capitol) ...........1.81 0 ·1314-IOHNNY'S IREATEST HITS, 
Johnny Mathis (Columbia) ....7.91 0 1315-HONEY, Bobby Goldsboro (United Artists) .............8.91 0 1315-ELVIS' IOLD RECORDS, 
Elvis Presley (RCA} ....•....8.91 0 13111-WHEN YOU'RE SMILING, 
Nat Kin I Colo (Pickwick) .....5.91 0 1331-1 TAKE A LOT Of PRIDE, ~Jean Marlin (Reprise} ....... 8.91 0 1332-FOR ONCE IN MY LIFE, 
Vlkkl Carr (Liberty) .........8.91 D 1335-ENIELBERT, EngelbertHumperdlnck (Parrott) ......8.91 0 1335-LIVE, Glen Campbell(Capitol) (twin pack) .......13.91 0 13411-HURT SO BAD, The Lettermen (Capitol) .........8.81 0 1341-ELLA, Ella Fitzgerald(Reprise) .......... , .......8.91 0 1342-TONY BENNETT'S 
GREATEST HITS, IV, (Col.) ....6.98 0 2301-THE BEAT Of THE BlASS, Herb Alpert & T.B. (A&M) ...8.11 0 2314-WARM Herb Alpert & The Tijuana Brass (A&M) .....8.81 0 2315-A WARM SHADE Of IVY Henry Mancini & Orch. (RCA).i.tl 0 2317-A TIME FOR US, PercyFaith, Orch. & Chorus (Col.) ..8.18 0 2315-FERIANTE & TEICHER 
10111 ANNIVERSARY (U.A.) .....8.81 0 1307-tOWBOYS & COLORED PEOPLE, Flip Wilson (Atlantic) 8.91 0 1315-BEST OF BILL COSBY, 
HOME PLUG-IN SYSTEM 

Pre· amplified model. Plugs into your present stereo rec­ord system. Beautiful walnut grain finish. THE PLAYER IS FREE. No speakers needed, plays through your own stereo system. 0 check HOME PLUG· 
WILSON PICKETT (Atlantic) ...8.98 0 3314-HISTORY Of 
OTIS REDDING (Volt) .........6.98 0 3325-CLOUD NINE, 
Temptations (Gordy) ........8.98 0 3301-LAOY SOUL,
Aretha Franklin (Atlantic) ....6.91 0 3335-ARETHA'S IOLD, 
Aretha Franklin (Atlantic) ....8.91 0 3325-FOR ONCE IN MY LIFE, 
0, C. Smith (Columbia) ......6.91 0 3327-BLOOD, SWEAT AND 
TEARS, (Columbia) .. , ....... &.II 0 3325-LOVE CHILD, Diana Ross and the Supremos (Motown) ..&.91 0 33311-THE BEATLES 1 lo 2 (Apple) (twin pack) .........13.98 0 3345-ABBEY ROAD, 
The Beatles (Apple) .........8.98 0 3331-BA'I'OU COUNTRY, Creedence Clearwater Revival (Fantasy).&.910 33511-CREEN RIVER, Creedence Clearwater Revival (Fantasy) ..8.98 0 3338-SMASH HITS, The Jimi Hendrix Experience (Reprise}. 8.91 D 3325-CROSBY/STILLS/NASH,
(Atlantic} ..................6.91 0 3342'-THE BEST OF CREAM,
The Cream (Atco) ........•...1.98 0 3345-FELICIAN0/10-23,
Jose Feliciano (RCA) .........8.91 0 3351-THROUGH THE PAST DARKLY, 
RQiiing Stones (london) ......8.91 0 3352-SANTANA, (Columbia) ..&.98 0 3353-THE ASSOCIATION, 
(Warner Bros.) .............&.98 0 1317-RECOLLECTIONS, 
Judy Collins (Eiektra) ........8.98 0 1315-IOHNNY WlllTER, (Columbia) ................8.98 
COUNTRY AND WESTERN 
I 

0 4301-TIME I lET TO PHOENIX, Glen Campbell (Capitol) ......&.II 0 43011-IDHNNY CASH AT FOLSOM PRISON, (Columbia) . , ....•..8.91 0 4313-IOHNNY CASH AT SAN 
llUENTIN, (Columbia) .........8.91 0 4317-THE BEST Of CHARLEY PRIDE, (RCA) .......&.91 0 4315-1 LOVE YOU MORE T11DAY, 
conway Twitty (Decea} .......&.91 
DELUXE AUTO SYSTEM 
Complete with easy installa­tion kit and 2 deluxe flush mount speakers (no drilling holes). TfiE PLAYER IS FREE. We will bill you only special member's J!.rice of $5.98 for speakers. U check AUTO SYS· 
JAZZ. 0 5307-THE BEST OF WES 

MONTIOMERY, (Verve) .......1.91 o ~~~£L~~R,~~cJ.'l1~lrc~.....u1 0 1i~~~~rJcT[\Ierve) ........&.91 0 ~3e~~-;.'~o~r~~11 T:~ ~~~).s.''l.~a 
0 5312-MEMPHIS UNDERGROUND, 

Herbie Mann (A&MJ ..........8.98 D ~~~t~~~~~fe~L (~~~:w~~~)~~~S.8 I 0 :~1lTE':N~Tf.Ar~~;umbia> ...ua 
0 5317-BUDDY AND SOUL, BuddyRich Big Band (Liberty) ......8.98 0 53111--lET GO, Charlie Byrd(Columbia) ................8.91 
SHOW AND CLASSICAL 

0 8301-DR. ZHIVAIO, OriginalSound Track (MGM) .........7.98 0 8309---FUNNY GIRL, Barb,ra Streisand, Orig. (Columbia) ...7.11 
D =~~!'d;;~:~~s??it~) 1 •••••••••1.11 0 ~~~~d~~~:0cc~pl~o~~~~·. -~r.'l:1a 
0 6314-PAINT YOUR WAGON, 

Original Sound Track (Par) ..7.98 0 6315-·DARK SHADOWS, Original-T.V. Music (Phillips).........8.11 0 631&--HELLO DOLLY, OriginalSoundtrack (20th Cent.-Fox) .. 7.91 0 7301-MY FAVORITE CHOPIN,
Van Cliburn (RCA) ••.......•.1.81 0 730~ERSHWIN IHAPSODY IN 
BLUE, Lon. Fest. Orch. (Lon.) 6.11 0 7313--2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY, 
Orlg. Sound Track (MGM) ....8.91 0 7315-·BACH'S GREATEST HITS, 
Ormandy & Phil. Orch. (Col.) .. 7.91 0 7316--ROMANZA, ChristopherParkening, Guitar (Angel) ....7.98 
0 7317-BEETHOVEN'S GREATEST HITS, Bernstein, Ormandy,(Columbia) ................7.98 
© 1169, Stereo Tape Club of America. 
P.O. Box 2986, Clinton, Iowa 52732 
that the time and contributions of the Notre Dame students 
Push Nutting campaign 
would be greatly appreciated. He 
The Nutting Headquarters re­
urged anyone with questions to 
ports that it has been making
call him at his office at the 
extensive efforts to create an 
Muscular Dystrophy 
awareness of the plan they are 
WHY WE GIVE YOU 
THE FINEST 8·TRACK STEREO PLAYER FREE We are America's largest all-label, all-artist stereo tape cartridge club. We hope to win you over to the newest, most advanced, most convenient way to 'enjoy music in your home, car and office-with trouble­free, compact stereo tape cartridges that play con­tinuously, switch tracks automatically, and last prac­
tically forever. They never scratch, warp or wear out. They never tangle or break. If you like the system, you'll buy your stereo tape 
cartridges from us. You never pay more than regular price. You can pick free bonus tapes imm~diately, without waiting. You enjoy up to 50% savmgs on special offers. 
To guarantee your continuing interest, the equipment must be fine enough to give brilliant high fidelity performance over many years of trouble-free ser~­ice. That's why we give you our STEREOMATIC un1t · FREE. It's the best premium equipment. That's why we are willing to send it to you at no risk or obliga­tion on your part. If you like it, KEEP IT. It's yours FREE just for buying stereo tape cartridges you would want to own anyway. If not, return it and your membership is cancelled. You pay nothing and owe nothing. To take advantage of this fabulous new membership offer-complete coupon and mail now. 
SEND NO MONEY • JUST MAIL Stereo Tape Club of America 
P.O. BOX 2986, CLINTON, IOWA 52732 
Please enroll me as a member and send the fREE Stereomatic S-track tape cartridge player checked below. 0 HOME SYSTEM (speakers $24.95) 0 HOME PLUG-IN (no speakers) 0 AUTO SYSTEM (speakers $5.98) 
Also send the 6 stereo tape cartridge albums I am buying now to start membership. (Select 6 from list, print numbers below.) 
;:::=::=:~1-1___c·:___.,l !=:I====:::::::; 
L-------'11 Il-l----1 
Bill me for these. 1 may pay in 3 monthly installments if 1 wish, including mailing and handling. If I am not 100% delighted 1 may return player and cartridges m 10 days and my membership will be cancelled. I owe 
nothing. 
Name'------------------~----~ge_____ 
Address•------------------------------­City________.state___-4,ip___~ 
Auto make & year________________________ 
Phone___________.Spouse Name'-------­Bank Branch_______ 
Credit Ref. Loc,_______ 
Credit Ref. Loc._______ 
Charge albums above to my credit card. 0 BankAmericard 0 Master Charge 0 Amer. Express Acct. # 0 Diners Club 
MY MAIN MUSICAL INTEREST IS (check one) 0 Popular 0 Rock & Folk 0 Show & Classical 
In addition to the 6 cartridges I am buying now to start my membership, I agree to purchase a cartridge a month during the coming year. (Albums you'll want to buy anyway; thousands to choose from.) 
~~:=~~~::. ll-232-l-lllslol3\~! 
L--------------------------~----~ 
in the near future before it is 
overwhelmed with requests. 

The next issue on the agenda of last night's meeting was An Toastal week. Tim Mahoney of Kenan Hall stated that 2,000 dollars are needed for the event to come off. He gave each hall a quota of approximately 50 cents per man as its share of the expenses. Other sources of income are expected to come from the showing of a movie, probably on April 6. 
In other action, Tom Suddes, Chairman of the Council, noted that a meeting with Mr. Price of the dining halls will be held Thursday at noon in the North Dining Hall for the presidents of the north quad. 
advocating. Letters have been dispatched to trustees and facul­ty and bulletins and notices have been put up all over campus. So far the trustees have failed to respond, but there has been a good deal of favorable faculty response. A group of faculty members will release statements dealing with Dr. Nutting and with the Chancellor President concept later this week. 
The Student Senate has al­ready passed a resolution to ex­plore the possibilities of the new proposal. It intends to start its investigation with an interview of Nutting. There are motions in the air for the consideration of the same issue before. the SLC and the University Forum. 
As the effort goes on more supporters of Nutting have showed J.IP to volunteer to create a number of different publica­tions. There are fact sheets avail­able on Nutting and Hesburgh. Other people are working on reprints from Nuttings' most re­cent book, The Free City. Stu­dents will also be available in both dining halls to answer ques­tions. 
Student response has been mostly favorable. Besides the volunteers, many have called headquarters with suggestions and questions. The Nutting sup­porters have run through some I 500 buttons and about half that number of bumper stickers. Among the General Program stu­dents who know Dr. Nutting, the support is dramatic. 
Spock ticket sales begin 

Tickets will be on sale in the dining halls tonite for Dr. Spock's lecture in Stepan Cen­ter, 8:00 Thursday night. Cost of the tickets is $ .SO. 



i~Uli W~ttl 
The Marine Officer selec­
tion team will be on cam­
pus 17 to 20 February in 

Hall 

and Rich Wall of Fisher volunteered to chair a committee which will coordinate the efforts of all the halls on campus. Their plan will be to give each hall president a certain section of the city to be covered during the day. 
Each president will then ask the residents of his hall for volunteers to help gather the donations. The halls will have the freedom to determine whatever method of collection 1they wish to use. Suggestions made at last night's meeting included door-to-door coverage, collection near business places, and solicitation at traffic intersections. 
Parnell concluded his discussion of the drive by stating Asociation. 
Following Parnell, Denny Wall of the Tom Dooley Foundation asked the Council for its aid in a fund raising drive during March 2-7. He explained that all money collected would be used for the operation of clinics and hospitals in the tradition of Dr. Tom Dooley. The Council advised him to contact each hall president individually in order to establish some sort of cooperation. 
Wall's request touched off a brief discussion of the possibility that the Council's cooperation with a few select charities would only encourage more charities to ask their aid. The body decided to formulate a policy toward charity organizations sometime 
Thank Heaven for Little Girls 
by Mary Kay Davy will be open to the parents. Tours of the campus will be
The annual SMC Sophomore conducted by the Julians.
Parents' Wekend is to held A panel discussion focusingFebruary 27-March I. 
on "Saint Mary's -Present and"Thank Heaven for Little Future" will be held in O'Laugh­Girls" is the theme of the '70 lin from I :00-2:30 on Saturdayweekend. Decorations and all afternoon. The panel's membersprinted matter will reflect this will cover many aspects of SMC.
idea. 

Pam Carey, the AcademicWeekend activities are varied Commissioner, will speak on theas the aim of this function is "to 
acquaint the parents with all academic life at SMC considering facets of their daughter's life at such academic innovations as SMC," stated Ann Jones, chair­pass-fail courses. man of the\\ eekend. Sister M. Alma Peter, Director 
"It is the only time within the of the Foreign Programs, will four years that such a broad speak on the new SMC campus view of SMC life is afforded the ·in Rome. 
Doctor Peter Grande, ND Director of Admissions, said he is op­parents," she continued. Dr. Clarence Dineen, Chair­timistic about increasing numbers of Black applicants. Parents are sched'Uied to arrive man of the Biology Department, the afternoon of Friday, Feb. is scheduled to speak on the 
27. Classes will be open for all ,co-exchange program and the interested parents. Registration feasability of co-education.

Grande optimistic 
is to take place in Holy Cross The final panel speaker is' as 
by Mike Mooney Hall from 3:30-5:00. yet undecided. The final topic
Grande added that the $1 00 Friday night's entertainment considered will be tuition, scho-1fee that is usually requiredSuccess is slow but picking uo will be a skit written and pro­larships, and the question of
in Notre Dame's growing efforts whenever a student confirms his duced by the sophomores enti­off-campus housing. 
to enlarge minority enrollment plan to matriculate to Notre tled I 1/ope I Meet a Football Following the panel, fromDame, will temporarily waivedat Du lac. Dr. Peter Grande, Player. This skit will be present­2:30-5:00, a Presidential Teain some minority applicant casesDirector of Admissions, com­ed in O'Laughlin Auditorium at and Reception will be held inmented yesterday that applica­so that the Admissions Ofice 9 p.m. All are invited to attend. Stapleton Lounge of LeManstions from black high school may receive a confirmation more Saturday morning the dorms Hall.
quickly.
students were coming "slowly" hut that the pace was still far ahead of last year's rate. Mean­
Accidents and vandalism 
while, response from Mexican­American students has been 

occur during weekend
woefully sluggish. As of February 12, 29 appli­A three car accident was partitions were broken in the Office mail huck were found cations from black students had among the incidents revealed by Stanford Hall bathroom. At at 6:25 a.m. Sun­
damaged on been accepted. One-hundred sev­Arthur Pears, Director of Securi-. 2:43 p.m., Sunday, a cigerette day.enty-six other applications are ty, in an interview yesterday. At machine in Zahm was found On this -last matter, Pears 
on file but are incomplete or 12:35 a.m. Sunday, Paul Said broken into, and several pack­commented that the destruction being processed, while 14 more failed to negotiate the bend at ages of cigarettes were taken. 
of these mirrors was a federal are soon to be decided upon. So old Eddy's Street and Door The rear view mirrors of a Post 
offense with a stiff p 

Saturday evening a special banquet is scheduled for the sophomores and their parents. A dance for parents and their daughters and escorts will take place in Regina Hall from 9:00 to 12:00 following the banquet. Music will be provided by the "Harlem Hogan". 
The weekend's activities will conclude with a 9:00 Mass in O'Laughlin Auditorium to be celebrated by Rev. Raymond Runde. A brunch will follow. 
Parents of the sophomore class were invited to participate in this annual event early this year. The deadline for reserva­tions is Wednesday, February 
18. Money must accompany the response in order for the -com­mittee to proceed with final plans. 
PAGE 8 TUE<;DA'r', FEBRUARY 17,1970
711B O&S'IRf1llt 
~~-------------------------~~~~~~--------------­





Carr's 53 breaks Hawkins' record 
by Jini Donaldson Observer Sportswriter "After that first basket I felt loose, I could just feel I was going to have a good night." But Austin Carr didn't have a good.night, he, had a great one, perhaps the greatest of his career at Notre Dame. The Irish captain set three scoring records in leading the Fighting Irish to a 115-80 trouncing of Tulane last 
night at the Convo. The win was Notre Dame's sixth in a row, the 1Oth in their last II starts, and boosted the Irish's season record to 17-5. 
"That first basket" gave Carr the single season Notre Dame scoring record, previously held by Tom Hawkins with 730 points, and touched off a standing ovation in recognition of the feat. The game was 


Irish ball handler )ackie Meehan displayed his playmaking talents last night, notching 12 assists in Notre Dame's 115-80 romp past Tulane. 
FG  FT  REB  PTS  
Jones  6-lS  1-5  11  13  Robers  
Gemmell  3-8  O-Il  6  6  Sutter  
Catlett  6-12  1-2  16  13  Sylvester  
Meehan  3-4  0-0  3  6  Henry  
Carr  22-35  9-9  9  53  Reese  
O'Connell  4-6  0-1  2  8  Riddle  
Sinnott  4:6  0-0  7  8  Alspaugh  
Hinga  0-1  0-0  1  0  Garrett  
Gallagher  2-2  0-0  0  4  Ferguson  
Ziznewski  2-2  0-0  2  4  ija,rris  
TOTALS  52-91  11-17  63  115  TOTALS  

stopped with 19:SI showing. on the clock and the referees gave the ball to Irish Coach Johnny Dee who presented it to Carr as a memento. 
With one record under hts belt after just nine seconds of play, Augie set out in quest of others. He scored 32 points in the first half of play and as he continued to fire the ball through the hoop in the second half the fans urged him towards setting a new single . game scoring record. Carr . re­sponded, neeting his 52nd and 53rd points of the night on a I 5-foot jump shot just to the right of the foul line with 4:31 left in the game, and broke the old scoring mark of 51 points that he set earlier this season against DePaul in the Convo. In tallying his record 53 markers Austin had connected for 22 field goals, another Notre Dame single game record. When Carr left the court at 3:55, to yet another ovation, l1e had moved into 9th place in the Notre Dame career scoring li~t. with 1135 points. 
Carr's he.oks provided excite­ment to what would have other­wise been a dull contest between two mismatched clubs. 
Led by Carr's 3 2 points and a team shooting percentage of 60% the Irish spurted out to a 61-42 halftime lead. Notre Dame led by I 0 after just five minutes of play and blew the 
FG  FT  REB  PTS  
4-7  0-2  3  8  
7-21  4-4  8  18  
10-17  2-3  8  22  
2-7  0-2  1  4  
7-16  '2-4  2  16  
1-3  0-2  1  2  
3-3  0-0  1  6  
0-0  0-0  0  0  
0-1  2-2  0  2  
0-0  2-2  0  2  
34-75  J2-21  32  80  


Boxing News: Frazier stops Ellis on TKO 
NEW YORK (UPI) -Joe Fra­zier became the undisputed heavyweight champion of the world last night when Jimmy Ellis was unable to answer the bell for the fifth round of their title fight. 
The fight established Frazier as the sole owner of the title he had shared with Ellis since Cas­sius Clay was deposed three years a·go after refusing induc­tion into the armed services. 
Ellis carried the fight to Fra­zier in the first round, but in the second and then in the third Frazier asserted his superior punching power and only his courage seemed to keep Elis on his feet. 
Ellis went down for the count of eight in the fourth, barely beating the count. He went down again and the bell sounded at five with Ellis on the floor. 
Ellis was not able to come out for the fifth round. 
It was Frazier's 25th victory in his unbeaten professional career. He was the Olympic champion in 1966. 
Frazier weighed 205 . against 
201 for Ellis. 

Cruz killed 
SANTO DOMINGO, Domin­ican Republic (UPI) -Carlos "Teo" Cruz held the world lightweight title less than a year, but he was confident he would hold it again someday. 
On Sunday, the 3 2-year old former champion was killed with his wife, Mildred, and their two children when a Dominican Airways DC9 jetliner cart­wheeled into the Caribbean Sea with 97 passengers, including 12 members of the Puerto Rican Women's volleyball team. 
Cruz was returning to San Juan, Puerto Rico with his family from his brother's wed­ding, and his plans called for him to go into training today for the next bout in his comeback against Roger Zami in Paris. After the Zami bout, he planned to fight Rodolfo Gonzales in Los Angeles. 
Cruz won the lightweight title from Carlos Ortiz in 1968 on a 15 round decision and succes­
sfully defended it against Mando Ramos the same year. However, in a second meeting wit~ Ramos last year, Cruz lost the title. 
division Saturday night with an 
easy win over game but out­
classed Ernie "Indian Red" 
Lopex. 
"It doesn't matter to me much who I fight next, but my manager, Cuco Conde, said he will try to match me with Benvenuti," Napoles said fol­lowing his 15th round knockout win over Lopex. "I don't think the difference in weight will matter much." 
"Indian Red is a tough guy 
and he swings a lot of punches," Napoles said. "He was trying all the time even though he didn't hurt me." 
Napoles floored the red-haired Lopez in the first, ninth and 15th rounds btfore Referee Larry Rozadilla halted the fight with 22 seconds remammg.
Under California rules it was recorded as a knockout victory. "The one thing that beat me was Napoles' left jab," Lopez 

Napoles wants NIno said. "I may have looked like I 
was in more trouble than I really  
INGLEWOOD' Calif. (UPI)  - was  because  I  bled  from  my  
Jose Napoles, the boxing darling  nose.  But I wasn't in that much  
of Mexican fight fans, is looking  trouble.  
f~r  bigger game after defending  "I thought I had a chance to  
~Is welterweight title _three times  get him in the 14th round but he  
m_ a year and w_ould hke to_meet  was  too elusive," Lopez said. "I  
Nt~o  Benvenuti for the middle­ couldn't get into him enough." 
weight crown.  
The Cuban-born Napoles dem­ Lopez  indicated  that  he  
onstrated  his  superiority  over  '  intends  to  continue  his  career  
contenders  in  the  welterweight  after a rest.  

game open by outscoring the Green Wave 20-8 during a 6 minute stretch in the latter por­tion of the first half. 
Tulane just couldn't stay with Carr and his hot-shooting mates in the second haif and all atten­tion centered on Carr's scoring. The Irish finished the game with a shooting percentage of .570. Carr canned his 22 field goals in just 35 attempts, a percentage of .629. 
The Irish tu::ned in an excel­lent team performance and just had ,too much talent for the Green Wave. Carr was ably sup­ported by Collis Jones, Sid Cat­lett, and Jackie Meehan, whose 
effort~ went largely unnoticed 
after Carr's heroics. 

Catlett continued his fine · play netting 13 points and cop­ping game rebounding honors with 16. Jones chipped in 13 points and also hauled down 11 rebounds. Meehan turned in an excellent display of ballhandling and playmaking and registered 12 assists. 
The Irish Freshmen were not so succe~sful as the varsity, ab­sorbing a 78-52 loss at tHt> hands of Bradley. Don Silinski's 1 9 points was the only ]:;right spot for the Leprechauns. 



JIM MURRAY 
I'D 1970, Los Angeles Times 
Like Snead and Goliath 

By any yardstick -or tape measure or electric timer-Ronald William Clarke, the Australian publicr accountant, is a super-runner. 
At a time when, at his age (35), most men in this country wouldn'-t wear out a pair of shoes in five years even walking, he runs 15-18 miles a day, including four before breakfast. Gray is beginning to show at the temples, but you could scrub clothes on the belly. 
He has run over 700 races in eight years, which would not be remarkable if they were all 60-yard dashes or low-hurdle events, but those 700 races laid end-to-end stretch from L.A. to the Azores. Since the slowest Clarke ever runs is about 15 m.p.h., he could theoretically beat surface mail. 
He holds the world record in the two-mile, three-mile, six-mile, 5,000 meters and 10,000 meters. He has beaten every world-class runner on the track in the past eight' years. Yet, he will go down in history with Goliath, Luis Firpo, Sam Snead and the German Army. He couldn't win the big ones. If he were an actor, he would be the leading man's best friend. If he were a fighter, he would be an "opponent." If he were a pitcher, he'd get on the same staff with Koufax. 
Long-distance running, like genius, is the infinite capacity for taking pain-in the chest, legs, arms, stomach and heart. Success is determined by not lung capacity or vital capacity but by capacity for self-punishment. "You have to enjoy going out and hurting yourself," Clarke admits. 

The point of it all is a little gold medal with a two-color ribbon attached which attests to posterity that, at your peak, you were the .best in the world at what you did. If you don't have that gold medal, you have to explain yourself to history .History turns aside and gives the world a knowing wink as you do. 
The tragedy of Ron Clarke is that he was not betrayed by physiology but by geography. He didn't choke from lack of fortitude but from lack of oxygen. 
He missed his gold medal in Tokyo in 1964 in the 10,000 meters 
to the then-unknown American Indian, Billy Mills. But a lot of 
observers blame that on an event in the first turn of the final lap 
when the Tunisian, Mohamed Gammoudi, tried to burst through the 
closely bunched Mills-Clarke tandem, and everybody g(')t knocked 
sideways. Clarke got knocked back to thi{d. Mills got knocked into 
the lead. Gammoudi came in second. In horse racing, they might 
have taken his number down. 
But Oct. 13, 1968, was the day it was all to have paid off for Ron 
Clarke. He stood at the starting line at 5 p.m. in Mexico City's 
Olympic stadium as it began to rain and the sterter's gun went off 
for the 1 0,000 meters. Ron Clarke was like a guy who was practicing 
target-shooting for 10 years for a duel, and the other guy chooses 
swords. He learns Shakespeare and they hand him Chekhov. He 
studies the Civil War, and the test is on the Spanish-American. 
At 8,000 feet against the mountain-grown Kenyans and t_he 
ever-present Gammoudi, who had been in the Pyrenees so long with 
the French Army he could yodel in three languages, Ron Clarke 
might have been better off trading clawings with a leopard. He 
finished the race not on the victory stand but on a stretcher. He 
finished fifth and unconscious. He got dizzy watching the Africans 
go by. His tongue was so swollen, he talked like a man with a 
mouthful of potatois for two days. He went home in an ambulance. 
He was so dehydrated, his blood almost powdered. His nose started 
to bleed at the start but it ran down his throat like chalk dust by the 
23rd lap. 
It rankles Ron Clarke that his career hit its peak the same year the 
Olympics did, that 700 races add up to only one bronze medal. 




