Sees problems for election break 
Burtchaell meets with campus media 
by Jim HolsingerObserver News Editor 
Notre !>..me's newly appoint­ed university Provost, Reverend James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., and Reverent Thomas E. Blautz, the new Vice-Preisdent for Student Affairs held a conference yester­day afternoon for the repre­sentatives of the campus media. Observer, Scholastic, and WSND editors attended the 90 minute conference along with members of Notre Dame's Office of Public Information. 
The talk covered a wide range of topics including the upcoming referendum on the controversial "Princeton Plan" to close the university for a time in October to allow student participation in political elections. Burtchaell gave his reflections on his new position as provost, talked of student unrest, the non-violence program, ROTC, the disciplinary code, the position of athletics on campus, and co-education. 

Burtchaell said that it was his feeling that the primary concern of the university should be study. He said that he did not favor passage of the referendum and questioned "the wisdom of breaking up the school year to have a short term involvement in public affairs." 
While Burtchaelladmitted the 
possibility  of  scheduling  the  
break,  he  said  that  the  time  
would  be  difficult  to  schedule  

this semester. Burtchaell also noted that difficulty would arise with students in the co-exchange program if Notre Dame cancelled all classes and , S t Marys did not. 
When questioned about an alternative to the break, Burtchaell suggested that students might prepare literature on the qualities of the candidates. He pointed out that his would be in keeping with the academic pursuits of the uni vcrsity. 
Burtchaell talked of what he termed "the deterioration of the notion of the public good" on campus, citing an increase in the numbers of thefts from campus rooms, increases in the incidents of cheating and the behavior of 
fans  in  the  stands  at  football  
games.  
Looking  to_  the  future,  

Burtchaell said he hoped for the 
Massey (right) congratulates new SLC Chainnan Eg~tn 
day that erecting building would end at Notre Dame, and that the donations now going for build­ings could some day build an endowment for highger faculty salaries and for holding tuition changes stable. 
Burtchaell said that study should be a joy, and hoped for the easing of tensions and campus unrest. 
Speaking on coeducation, Father Burtchaell scid that if Notre Dame and St. Mry's can­not be operationally co-ed in two to three years that Notre Dame should proceed with coed­ucation on its own. 
"There are so many gears that mesh already we should either go co-ed all the way or not at all," said Burtchaell. 
Burtchaell also admitted the importance of the sele.ction of St. Mary's College president in Notre Dame's coeducational plans. 
Blantz and Burtchaell were questioned on campus unrest and the fifteen minute rule. Blantz said that he believed that the causes of student tension and campus unrest were~ notrooted here. He said that the turmoil seen in students is an indication of concern with the situation outside the university and that the university cannot directly resolve the actual causes. 
Burtchaell agreed that the causes of student unrest were beyond the university's sphere pf influence and noted a "rising mood of anger and impatience." 
Friday, Septenber 11, 1970 

SLC commences 
with code delay 
The Student Life Council postponed action yesterday on a message which the Student Body Vice-president termed a "sellout" to the Student Body. The bill was an amendment to the Student Judicial Code which would have granted the Dean of Students the right to appeal de­
cisions of the hearing boards. 
Mark Winings, Student Body Vice-President said that he and SBP Dave Krashna were solidly in favor of the code as it stood. He said that the present code was written in a spirit which displayed trust in the Student 
Hijackers demand release of seven 
The five nations involved in negotiations to free more than 250 hostages held by Arab guerillas on three hijacked planes rejected guerilla demands Friday for a two stage exchange calling for the release of seven com­mandos jailed in Europe and then an unspecified number of imprisoned in Israel. 
A spokesman for the group representing the United States, Britain, West Germany, Switz­erland and Israel, said early Friday after a meeting in Berne, Switzerland, that in theri present form the new guerilla conditions are not acceptable. "Never­theless, we are considering pre­senting counter proposaJs," he said. 
The actual negotiations were being conducted by the Inter­national Red Cross. 
The spokesman confirmed that the essential difference from previous guerilla demands was that they now wanted the exchange to take place in two stages. 
As outlined by a West German goverment spokesman in Bonn, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), offered to free women, children, the elderly and the sick in return for seven of its comrades held in European prisons. 
But he also said the com­mandos had also said they would hold all healthy mal·e passengers from t11e three aircraft until Israel turned loose an un­specified number of Arab gueril­las held in Israeli jails. The Bonn spokesman said his information had come through the West German embassy in Amman, 
Jordan. 
Diplomatic sources in Jerusa­lem said early Friday that the Tel Aviv government will probably free some Arab gueril­las in exchange for all passengers being held at a desert air strip in Jordan. The sources said the decision was taken by the Israeli Cabinet Thursday night. 
No concrete decision on the number of guerillas to be freed was taken by the Israeli Cabinet and no specific request had been 
made, the sources said. 
Iraq, considered one of the more militant Arab nations and a strong supporter of the Ar: :> guerilla movement, made a surprise announcement Thurs day night calling on the com­mandos to release all their hos­tages "so there will be no justificatiu 1 for foreign inter­ver}tion." The announcement was madr over Baghdad radio. 
The seven f.rabs in European custody include three in Munich, West Germany, three in Zurich, Switzerland, and one in London. 

The International Red Cross, meanwhile, began airlift of med­ical and sanitary supplies for the hostages. 
"The situation of the passen­gers is becoming more and more precarious," said Alain Modoux, <ll spokesman for the Red Cross in Geneva. 
The popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine whose members hijacked two of the airliners Sunday and the third Wednesday, has said it will blow up the planes and those aboard them unless seven Arab guerillas imprisoned in Britain, Switz­erland and West Germany are released by I0 p.m. EDT Sat­urday. 
A 72 hour extension of the d ea dl ine, originally set for Wednesday night, was worked out by the Red Cross and the guerillas after the third hijacking and was the last progress report-
Memorial Mass 

A memorial mass will be cele­brated for Mgr. John J. McGrath at 11 a.m. Sunday in the Church of Loretto. 
ed in the m.gotiation at the desert air strip northeast of the Jordanian capital of Amman. 
Switzerland has agreed to free the three Arab commandos it holds and West Germany is ready to do the same with three there, but Britain has not made an official announcement of its intentions. 
Informed sources in New york in touch with the negotiations indicated a complication had de­veloped -that the guerillas want 
to release only the non-Isrealis aboard the planes in exchange for the seven commandos held in West Europe and negotiate separately with Israel for the release of others held in Israeli prisons. 
Israeli Premier Golda Meir said Thursday in Tel Aviv that Israel opposes releasing im­prisoned Arab guerillas in ex­change for the passengers. She did not say flatly, however, that Israel would refuse to release commando prisoners if such an exchange was part of over all ransom arrangements. 
Of the 402 passengers and crew members aboard the Trans World Airline, Swissair and 
(continued on page 3) 
Body. T0 add to the proposed 
amendment, he said, would 
change the spirit. 
The code as presently drafted 

was approved by the Student 
Life Council last spring. The 
Board of Trustees, however, re­
jected the code over the summer 
because it did not provide 
enough legal safeguards for the 
university. The code provides a 
student who is found guilty with 
the opportunity to appeal. It 
does not provide the Dean of 
Students with the same oppor­
tunity should he feel that the 
verdict in a case was in error. 
The Trustee's rejection forced 

the Council to consider the code 
again since they must approve it' 
before it can go ·into effect. 
Proposals of the Council normal­
ly go into effect if they are 
approved by the University Pres­
ident. The President has the 
option to forward measures 
directly to the Trustees if they 
are of substantial nature. Such 
was the case with the Judicial 
Code.. 
The amendment would allow 

the Dean of Students to appeal 
decisions under any of the fol­
lowing circumstances: I) If there 
has been misinterpretation of 
the rule or regulation by the 
hearing body. 2) If there was 
verified prejudice on the part of 
the hearing board. 3) If one 
member of the judicial board 
which decided the case certified 
that the decision was totally 
unsupported by the facts. 
Action on the amendment 

was postponed to the next meet­
ing to allow new members of the 
Council the opportunity to 
review the code which was pass­
ed by last year's group. 
Yesterday's meeting was the 

first for the SLC this year. The 
Council is a tri-partite board of 
students, faculty, and admin­
istrators which has been granted 
power by the Board of Trustees 
to deal with matters of student 
life. The Council has twenty 
-four members: 8 faculty, 8 
students, and 8 administrators. 
(continued on Daf!e 3I 

-----------------------------------~ 
r 
Page 2 
Friday, September 11, 1970 


Origin of Non-Violence is traced 
by Dave Lannners Observer As<iociate Editor 
The development of the pro­gram for the Study and Practice of the Non-Violent Resolution of Human Conflict since its in­ception in the spring of 1969 has been as difficult and unpre­dictable as the subject matter it is intended to investigate. When the non-violence program was formed, due to the strong sup­port of Father Hesburgh and a large group of student leaders, its structures, purposes, and ..JCa­demic content were left largely undefined. What the program 1acked in structure and 

Observer Insight 
definition was compensated for by the tremendous response of the student body, more than three hundred of whom took courses offered within the non-violence program. 
The purpose of this article is to give a brief history of the program sin~e last spring, when the program met with the Arts and Letters College Council to determine how it was to take its place in the academic structure. 
The first problem that the non-violence program faced was the resignation of its founder and director, Professor Charles McCarthy, who had announced his resignation last December in the wake of the Dow-CIA suspensions. McCarthy's resignation, coupled with the de­parture of James Douglass, who only had a one year contract to teach in the program, left the non-violence program with the dual task of integrating itself into the academic structure and finding new men to fill the vacated positions of McCarthy and Douglass. 

When the men in the non­-violence program met with the Arts and Letters College Council last spring, it faced four challenges, all of which were predictably interrelated. First, how was the faculty within the program to be hired? Secondly, if the program was to be a permanent institution at Notre Dame, from where would the funds for its support come? Thirdly, would the non-violence program be largely autonomous, with its own courses and faculty; would it be largely inter­disciplinary, relying on faculty and courses within already exist­ing departments, or both? Fourthly, the very nature of the program, with its in tended emphasis on the integration of the theory and practice of the non-violent life-style, was widely 
challenged  as  being  "non  
-academic."  
The  nature  of  the  non  

-violence program, even its very existence, was at stake when McCarthy and the members of the program's "steering com­mittee" went before the Arts and Letters College Council. And it was no relief to the supporters of the non-violence program that upon the Arts and Letters College Council sat all three heads of the Army, Navy and Air Force ROTC units, plus Assistant Deans Thompson and Waddick, who are widely known for their conservative views. 
The steering committee of the program had considered that the ability of the program to hire its own faculty was of paramount importance to the success of the program. Obviously, it was es­sential that the program be able to hire men that combined the moral and ethical dimensions of non-violence with an intellectual awareness of the non-violent movement. 
The decision of the Arts and Letters College Council concern­ing the hiring privileges of the 
non-violence  program  was  to  
require  that  any  man  that  the  
program  proposed  to  hire  be  

approved and hired through the department of that man's field of academic study. For example, if the non-violence program was interested in hiring a man to teach within the program that had gotten his degrees in the­ology, then that man would have to be approved by the head of the theology department. This presented a problem that some have interpreted as almost a fa tal blow to the program. If a de­partment head was un­
sympathetic to the non-violence program, or if he did not wish to hire a man that had been in­volved in radical politics, then the program could not hire that man. 
Mario Corradi is a case in point. Corradi, an Italian who had taught philosophy at Notre Dame during the 1969-1970 school year, had an active inter­est in non-violence. He also was a popular teacher, achieving the second highest course 
(continued on page 1) 


Cotton Bowl Funds questioned 
-----------------------------, terday that he seriously questions the University's refusal 
Rl. SEPT. IS THRU SEPT. 2 
to allow him acess to their re­
Charging that funds for the Minority Students Program, in excess of $100,000, had been misappropriated by the Uni­versity to pay expenses incurred at the Cotton BowlStudent Body President Dave Krashna said yes­
ATHLETIC AND 
CONVOCATION CENTER 
Friday 8:30 
Sat.  11:00 AM  
2:30  
8:30  
Sun.  2:30  
6:30  




Need A 

cords. 
Krashna claims that earlier 

this sumrr.er he requested that :Father Joyce allow him to view records of the University's Cotton Bowl Expenses. Father Joyce, he alleged, said that this was not in his p0wer and that Krashna rontact someonl" else. 
Krasnna then wrote a letter to 

father Hesburgh requesting that 
they meet to examine the 
University's books. Krashna said 
that he received an unequivocal 
no from Fath ~r Hesburgh who 
reportedly expl'lined that as far 
as he knew this was not a prac­
tice of any other university and 
that it would not be one of his. 
Krashna said he consulted 

Edward Krause, University 
Athletic Director, about the 
matter and that Krause, al­
though very cooperative, could 
not explain the stories that 100 
extra people from Notre Dame. 
went to the Cotton Bowl, that 
all living expenses for the foot­
ball players were absorbed, or 
that certain students w.·re given 
stipends from the Cotton Bowl 
CHEST OF DRAWERS? BOOKCASE OR RECORD CABINET? 
Buy it unpainted-Save 1/2 or More!!! RUGS! ROOM SIZE· AT BIG SAVINGS!! 
NOW! 
• 
··­
,,..\ 
~ 
~· 
;;.. 
~~-----:.." 

Huge Stock of furniture and rugs right in 
OLD FIELD HOUSE 
Across from the Huddle Saving $$ for ND students since 1948 


WILLIAM'S 
UNPAINTED FURNITURE 
And N.D. Student Union 
Also at 2609 S. 288-2181 for Free Delivery 
"Many players did not want play in the Cotton Bowl game to go to the Bowl game at first for the purpose of financially but once the purpose twas 
aiding the Minority Students suggested they go purely on the Programs at Notre Dame"' basis that they would be able to Krashna said, "It's sad thoughenhance Minority Students' pro­that when this University com­gram they agreed to go," mitted itself to such a worth­
K rashna stateu. 
while purpose, all actions "I don't know if it has been 
weren't honorable because the done yet, but I would like to 
ends don't justify the means,sincerely thank those players 
and the might remember this the who committed themselves to 
next time." 
Agnew con6nues campaigning 
SPRINGFIELD, ILL., (UPI) 
-Vice-President Spiro T. Agnew 
accused liberal congressional 
Democrats Thursday of "a 
whimpering isolationsim in 
foreign policy, a mulish ob­
structionism in domestic policy 
and a pusillanimous pussy­
footing on ... law and order." 
Agnew waded into "troglodytic leftists ' and "radiclibs" of Congress, and "organ grinders" of the Eastern press as he kicked off an in­tensive campaign to arest control of the Senate from the Demo­crats. 
The vice-president told an estimated crowd of 5,000 persons on the geranium dotted west lawn of the Illinois Capitaol that "your country just cannot afford any more ultra-liberals in the United States Senate." 
He urged Illinoisans to return to the Senate freshman GOP Senator Ralph T. Smith, who is in a tough race with Democrat Adlai E. Stevenson Ill for the seat formerly held by the late Senator Everett M. Dirksen. 
From Springfield Agnew headed on to Casper, Wyoming, for an evening fund raising din­ner in behalf of Representative John Wold, who is giving up his House seat to challenge Senator Gale W. McGee, Democrat. A six day, six state swing was to take the vice president through the Midwest, Far West and Southwestt 
"There was a time," Agnew told the Springfield rally, "when 
Garage for Rent 

On corner Notre Dame Ave., South Bend Ave. Phone 232­
6882 
the liberalism of the old Demo­
cratic elite was a venturesome 
anf fighting philosophy -the 
vanguard political dogma of a 
Franklin Roosevelt, a Harry 
Truman, a John Kennedy. 
"But the old firehorses are 
long gone. Today's breed of 
radical liberal posturing about 
the Senate is about as closely 
related to a Harry Truman as a 
Chihhuahua is to a timber wolf." 
"Ultra-liberalism today trans­lates into a whimpering iso­lationism in foreign policy, a mulish obstructionism in do­mestic policy, and a pusillanimous pussyfooting on the critical issue of law and order," Agnew said. 
Agnew praised the Nixon ad­ministration's record in foreign policy, but said it had " not mollified for a second the cater­wauling criticsin the Senate." In a departure from his prepared text, while referring to "radical liberals" in Congress, he said: "I have my own name for them. I call them radiclibs." 
In domestic policy as wellas foreign policy, he said, "this campaign presents us with a clear choice -between the troglodytic leftists who domi­nate Congress now, and the moderate, centrist and con­servative supporters of President Nixon ... " 
Agnew got his loudest ap­plause when he attacked sections of the press. 
"If any of you are regular readers of the liberal eastern press -the organ grinders of the old elite -you will probably read on your editorial ?pages tomorrow, 'The terrible Mr. Agnew has done it again.' 
"Don't let this bother you as, assuredly, it does not bother me," he said. 
Friday, September 11, 1970 

711E OBSERVER Page 3 


Summer NSA convention held 

By Kurt Heinz 

Notre Dame's National Student Association (NSA) Co-ordinator, Steve Novak, attended the NSA convention at Me Callister College in St. Paul, Minnesota, this sum­mer, and returned with many ideas and plans he hopes to imple­ment at Notre Dame. 
The convention consisted of afternoon and morning work­shops dealing with campus pro­blems such as student services and legal rights as well as political issues such as poverty, the war, rascism, sexism, and labor and evening conventions to establish the NSA policy for the p;>rning year. , t · 
1

Although Notre Dame was allowed to send five delegates and five alternates, they sent, only Novak. "I feel it was a mistake not to send five," said Novak. "You need 9th~r people dealing 
Hijack victims hungry 
(continued from page 1) the Intercontinental Hotel in children, but there was no exact British Overseas Airways Corp. Amman and 257 are being held breakdown of the identties of jets when they were hijacked, aboard the planes. Most of those thsoe in the hotel and those in 155 of them have been moved to in the hotel are women and 
Egan elected chairmen 

SBVP Mark Winings was elected Vice-Chairman. 
Recently appointed Univer­sity Provost Reverent James Burtchaell addressed the Council on the direction that he felt it 
1.5.0. Holds 
Orientation 

The International Srudents 
Sl'nior Bar Opl'ns 
The senior bar will reopen to­day after extensive renovations this summer including a black light room. The bar is op~n from 
4 p.m. to 2 a.m. Friday and Sa­turday night. Membership cards will be available at the doors. 


Student Union Contemporary Arts Festival 


BLUES FESTIVAL 
Friday September 11 J.B. H1;ftte, Otis Rush, 
Mississippi Fred McDowell 
Saturday September 12 Lightnin' Hopkins, Houndog Taylor, 
Stepan Center 8:00 
General Admission $2.00/nite $3.50/both nites Patrons 
$1.00/nite $1.50/ both nite~ 
Patron Cards and Blues Tickets sold in Fiesta Luung< & Dining Halls September I I th 4-6 PM 
in the specific fields, particular­ly the Economic Affairs, Off­Campus, and Human Affairs Co­
mmissioners. No-vak was ab-le to cover ail of the meetings and will discuss his ideas with the commissioners before their final plans and budgets are made. 
Novak felt the most important action the Convention took was to reaffirm its earlier committ ment to pay fifty thousand dollars to the National Associa­tion of Black Students (NABS). Last year, when it was discovered that NSA civil rights funds had been misappropriated, a group of Black delegates formed NABS to d~a! with the problems of Black Stutlies, Black Student unions, al1d the cities. 
The NSA agreed to give fifty thousand dollars to the group, but to date only sixteen thousand has been paid. It would take only one hundred dollars per school to fulfill the committment. 
Novak feels that contributing to that amount is necessary to "maintain the credibility of the NSA and to keep the organization on its feet." He explained: "If 
this debt is not paid, by the 
schools, the national office will 
have to pay it, and thus lose their 
effectiveness in dealing with other 
problems." 
There was wide debate over what the NSA policy should be concerning the war. The debate centered around the NSA partici­pation in the planned May 1 non-violent shut-down of Washington, D.C. Novak reported that it was finally decided that each college would engage in anti-war activities, such as teach-ins and political campaign­ing pressure on the Nixon Admin­istration to change its policy. According to Novak, if in the spring it is apparent that Nixon is not responding to the other channels, the NSA will join in the planning of May I demonstration 
The convention also established as a priority for this year of the creation of a women's desk to deal specifically with the pro­blems of women. The desk will deal with such problems as women admission discrimination, job discrimination, birth control, and abortion. 

THE OBSERVER NEEDS A SECRETARY 
PAID POSITION Apply Observer Office or 
WILL BE EXPIRING SEPTEHBER 18 

To Renew 
Mail the form below to 
Box 11 
Notre Dome 
D $5.00 first semester D $8. 00 whoJe yeur 
NAME ADDRESS 

P.S. THE ABOVE FORM CAN BE USED BY NEW SUBSCRIBERS 
r Friday, September 11, 1970
Page 4 










THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper DAVIDC. BACH,fditm GAETANO M. De SAPIO. Publisher FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

Fr. Robert Griffin 
Sometimes you have to 
Last springtime, during the national uproar over description sounds, perhaps it only seems that the Cambodian situation, a young campus ·pacifist awful when I try to remember it. Anyway, a man named Michael urged me to preach the peace has to be a perfect ass to quote accurately from his message in the churches of South Bend. "Tell it own sermons. like it is," he said, and I could see myself I am sorry to report that the last of the Irish 
charismatically poised in the pulpits of the Polish enclaves of the City of New York was not readyghettos, armed with syllogisms from Joan Baez for the preaching of the gospel of peace. I beganand the Sermon on the Mount, ushering in the that Sunday as a pastoral figure about whom little apocalytic moment when every Bingo game in more was known than that he was one of Our 
town would be converted to a love-in, and every Lady's chaplains at Notre Dame. Riding on the Slovene in the city would have pounded his 
coattails of Rockne and the Mother of God, I was stiletto into a peace medal. 
treated with the deference due to a man to whom But it is madness to be tempted by the 
Hesburgh and Parseghain, it was supposed, came impossible dream, especially the impossible dreams 
for confession and plenary indulgences. After of young men named Michael, so I said, "Forget 
fifteen minutes in that pulpit, I was lucky not to it." I would have forgotten it, too, except that on be deported to the East Village as a peace-freak the day I said, "Forget it," there was a certain sometime before the second collection. shadow of disappointment in those young, 
The rectory gardener stomped out in rage, as pacifistic eyes. though going in search of a policeman. The So this summer, in a quiet parish of the Bronx, 
president of the Holy Name Society got into a fist in one of the last of the Irish enclaves of the City 
fight with an usher for demanding eoual time at of New York, I delivered-in reparation for the 
the podium. A little old lady announced she injured idealism of all the young Michaels on this owned a bottle of Lourdes water from the Grotto, campus-a homily on peace. Beginning with 
which she would promptly turn over to Jews. That metaphysics, I contrasted the beauty of the eternal 
evening, the Legion of Mary of the parish passed a relationships of love existing in the heart of God 
resolution stripping me of the privileges of the with the horrors of a very contemporary war in 
green scapular, or so it was rumored among the which more than a million children have been 
altar boys. 
wounded or killed. I then proceeded to argue the There was no great:. moral lessons to be derived pacifistic cause from the person and nature, from this episode of the month of August. I will teachings and example of Christ, pausing here and not be listed with the Berrigans as one of the age'sthere to win over my congregation with witty great moral witnesses to the consdence of passages, taken out of context, from the writings manking. Unlike the prophet Isaiah, myof the Fathers of the Church. Then, somewhat preachments did not lead me to be sawn in half,inaccurately, I cited a lesson from history, when though at my present weight of over three someone like Pope St. Linus rebuked a bloke hundred pounds, I have always felt safe from thatresembling Attila the Hun from the pulpit of the kind of martyrdom.
Cathedral at Canossa from his participation in a But it does seem, these days, that there is often a skirmish of the Spanish American War. In shadow of disappointment in somebody's eyes,contrast.~ to this, I noted the fact that the and one must choose constantly between theCardinal-Archbishop of New York, on his return approval of young pacifists or of little old fromfrom a Christmas visit to the troops overseas, had 
the Bronx.
reported to Mr. Nixon that everywhere in Asia That is why some of us prefer not to preach thespirits were high among our American fighting peace message in the churches of South Bend, or men. I suggested that what this church needs is anywhere else. 
more Pope Linuses and fewer cardinal-archbishops Only sometimes you have to preach that
serving as morale officers for the 
message, if you believe it. 
military-industrial complex. 
Otherwise, they call you the Silent Majority.
The homily was, I hope, better than its 

Are you kidding? 
Vice-President Spiro T. Agnew, the most noted political rhetorician of the Nixon Administration, was in fine fettle hin Springfield, Illinois yesterday. 
Here's a sampler of the words used by the vice-preisdent and their meanings: 
-Troglodytic leftists: a troglodyte is a caveman and to be troglodytic means' to be hermit-like or crude. 
-Pusillanimous pussyfooting: to be pusillanimous is to be cowardly or fainthearted. 
-Radiclibs: a word of Angew's own coinage which is a contraction of radical liberals and which the vice-preisdent applied to liberal congressional Demc.:rats. 
-Catenvauling critics: to caterwaul is to make a shrill sound like that of a cat; wail. 
Sports Editor: Terry Shields Business Manager: Bruce Rieck 
Associate Editors:Sue Bury, Ann 
The opinions In the editorials, new$ 
Advertising Manager: Bruce Barker 
Conway, Steve Hoffman, Dave llnalyses, and columns of The Observer Campus Editor: Glen Corso ~Ire solely those of the authors <:nd
Lammers, Cliff Wintrode 
!!ditors of The Observer and do not
, News Editor: Jim Holsinger Night Editor: John Abowd 
necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's
·Asst. News Editor: Ed Ellis 
Layout: Rich Maggi, Rich Smith, College, the University of Notra Dame, SMC News Editor: Jeanne Sweeney John Knorr their administr,;tions, faculty or student Features Editor: T. C. Treanor Headlines: Rich Maggi bodies. 


THE SOFT PARADE=========== 


DIVISION 

==============GLEN CORSO 
Flags, that's one of the first things I noticed when I got home, 
flags all over the place. They were sticking to car windows and part 
of belligerent "love it or leave it" bumper stickers. You found them 
flying from car antennaes and flagpoles in front of houses. They 
were mentioned in newspaper stories about booming flag sales, and 
in an editorial written by a no doubt tolerant person who decried 
the decision by local policemen to we31 them on their uniforms. 
The flag it seems-like many other things-has bec01re politici~d. 
Instead of its traditional meaning, the unity of the country, if f\t>W 
signifies the vast division of opinion in the nation. When you s~ a 
flag, on a car or flying in front of a. house, it becomes automatic to 
assume that the person displaying it is part of the great "Silent 
Majority". 
Some charitable souls of course deny there is division, but by so 
doing ignore the facts. Others acknowledge it but heap blame on 
Nixon and Agnew for dividing the country. Still others, while 
agreeing there is division, blame the college students and~ otler 
members of the left for the chasm that is developing. 
None of these assumptions seem to encompass the entire truth, 
though. There is division in this country.· Signs of it are shove.P into 
our faces every day. A graphic ~xample was shown in a story in the 
local paper during the month of August. A group of citizens in Long 
Beach, a Long Island community, banded together and sponsored an 
"Honor America" parade. The group denied any political 
motivations and invited all Americans to join in the parade. However 
when a group called "Enough Concerned Citizens to end the War 
Now" sought permission to participate, their request was denied. 
The sponsors claimed that if they had allowed the groL(P .to 
participate it would have violated the "nonpartisan, nonpo itical 
stipulation in the city's permit authorizing the march." An attorney 
for the peace group said he planned to seek a court order which 
would either allow the peace group to participate or force the city to 
revoke its recognition of the event. 
It is far, far too naive to suppose that the actions of the 
administration or Spiro Agnew's speeches have split the country. 
Nor can one claimed the action and rhetoric of the left has torn the 
nation apart. 
The reasons for the division in our society go far deeper than the 
superficial reasons that are being cited. After all, while Agnew's 
speeches are strong they, as columnist John Roche says, "were 
pretty mild say, by comparison with any of FDR's assaults on his 
opponents." And even the violence perpetrated by the extreme left 
pales when compared to the American Civil War, which truly did 
tear the nation assunder. 
What we are witnessing today is the clash of two basic life styles, which in many respects are complete opposites. The existing American ethos with its stress on achievement, material gain, strong national consensus, aggressive foreign and military policy, and unquestioning acceptance of values is being strongly challenged by the new life style in America. The new style places somewhat less of a stress on achievement and material gain and scorns strong foreign and military policies as out~moded and perhaps the causes of the very things they were set up to prevent. Above all it exhibits harsh questioning of the basic bedrock of values on which the system is built. The people that represent the two styles can be seen as implacable foes who are contending for the right to shape society as they see fit. 
There are grounds for, and there will undoubtedly be, compromise between the two groups. Yet this compromise will not come about through the appearance of an all powerful peacemaker, a person who pledges to bring Americans together. No one man, or group of men, can bring this about. The only way it will occur is through series of hard, sometimes bruising encounter in which each side will eventually recognize the basic weaknesses or strengths of each other's opinions. Any attempt that is made to "unite" the nation before these encounters take place will only serve to effect a c~ver-up of the basic differences, on a grand scale. The way America will emerge from this fray depends on eacy side remaining convinced of .the basic correctness of its own posture and fighting hard for it while at the same time resisting the temptation to imput all the evils of the -:vorld to the other side's motives. In this way, through a slow 
and pamful evolutionary process a new American life style will emerge. 

Friday, September 11, 1970 


Page 5 



Blues 
by T. C. Treanor 
Observer Features Editor 
Blues -real, honest-to-God blues -is strange stuff indeed. One seldom sees a blues artist making a public issue out of his personal life. For example, Sun House has never, to my knowledge, fornicated for peace in Toronto. Nor does Big Mama Thrrnton bear the baby of Big Joe Williams and call the r rogeny God. They seldom have their autobiographies in their back pockets. If they did, it would be pretty strong reading. Mostly about filth and stench and poverty and hunger. Mostly about sixth birthdays spent laying in their own sweat on decaying Southern farms. Mostly about running away again. Mostly about going without a job. Mostly about drinking rotgut aliquor and finding consolation with anyone or anything they can. In short, mostly about all the things that make up the Blues. 
Blues singers are, by all accounts, artists. That is to say, they do the great and difficult thing rendered by human hands, i.e., art. They have as e\·ery true artist has, perceptions of unlimited variance, and a thousand names for death. A blues artist sees a bird in the sky that for some reason no one else can see. "Hey, man," he says, "look at the bird." But since he is the only one who could possibly see the bird, thsoe around him silence themselves in baaled puzzlement. 
So he sits down and starts to draw a picture.. Now, he can't draw a picture of the bird, since if the people can't see the bird, they won't be able to see the picture. Instead, he draws a picture of something that resembles the bird in some content or form or style or whatever. And that's art. 
I rambled and I wandered, rambled all night long. Lord, I rambled ard I wandered, baby all night long. 
Yes I woke up this morning, 
Didn't know right from wrong. 
Blues singers can play to their audience. There's no law against it o. anything. But even those hwo do play to their audience seem to have on ear cocked towards an invisible audience. It 
•


m1rror a frightening thing 

WOULDN'T YOU LIKE TOBE ON THE OBSERVER 

FEATURES STAFF? 
No?How would you like 

to pick grapes? Eat glass? Count 

platitudes for I.F. Stone? 
The OBSERVER FEATURE'S DEPARTMENT considers such esoteria as: 
H1Ult is the nature ofGod? J11hat should this nation do in VietNam? 
Doors will open at your feet if 
you're a member of the OBSERVER FEATURE'S DEPARTMENT! Won't that be 
fun? 
The OBSERVER FEA1URE'S DEPARTMENr has Illli)Y openings for 
sincere sensitive, intellegent young men to do book reviews. moVIe re­views, record reviews review reviews, freelance writing and especiallY.advertising. If we fail to get a sufficient number of appliC<!J1!S, we Will settle for total illiterates!(Important note: If you are an 1ll1terate, 
immP.diatP.Iv net in contact with the Feature's Editor for tea and emnathv.) So drop by the Observer office around 4:30 tomorrow, old and new alike. 
Write on with F"EATURES! 
Then, J. B. Hutte. He rasps. He slides his hand up and down his guitar with almsot sensual delight. He smiles, and shouts defiance at the world. He lived in Augusta, Georgia, and he lived in Chicago. He bubbles on various cuts of Chicago/The Blues/Today. 
Then, Otis Rush; subtlety caught and rendered slow and melodic through his guitar. He radiates dignity; not completely an impersonal thing; it says, without malice, that the song is in command ; it is greater than the sum of our emotions. 
Rush finishes Friday's performance; and perhaps he should, for his quiet, reflectiveness, after the uproarious Hutte, may well drive that audience to contemplation. Taht, at least, would be interresting. 
Jimmy Dawkins is technically a traditionalist, and his lean form rests easy in a chair, but the restless eyes and restless soul belies all that. He's young ­thirty-three -but he's been playing for fifteen years. His voice is slow and accomodating, but his music is fast and brash. 
Houndog Taylor, judicious and delightftil as ever, will ply his trade with apair of other musicians -brilliant guitarists both -in a temperamental follow-up of the mercurial Dawkins. Then, finally, Lightnin' Hopkins to close the show; Methusalae from Texas, establishing an immutable, inimitable sound while all the plastics were in high school. Lightnin' Hopkins has appeared under three thousand, two hundred and seventy six different labels. That's right. Three two seven six. 
The funny thing about those guys is, they're playing, and you may listen if you wish, but they are playing their music, not yours, and if your music changes, their's stays the same. . 
And they're honest. It's a good show, if you like that stuff. 


Jimmy Dawkin 's brash defiance will lie beneath an exterior of rigidity
Saturday night. 
could be themselves. It could be God. Perhaps its all those people they knew, thirty years of suffering ago. Perhaps its all those people mankind knew, thirty hundred years of suffering ago. But whatever its constituency, the invisible audience most assuredly exists. 
Just as assuredly, it is the visible audience which is being sought out by the Contemporary Arts Corr.. nittee for Fridya's and Saturday's Blelues Festivals. The visible audience pays considerably more than God or three thousand years of human suffering ever did. And the odds are that the visible audience is gonna show. 
"There are still some tickets left," says the Contemporary Arts Official Hype in a scrawl that is supposed to be that is supposed to be folksy and looks sloppy. On and on it babbles, l'.·oout the eight o'clokc PM opening Friday at Stepan Center, about the ticket prices; and it closes with a hanc.:...drawn sun,, that says, oh-so-coyly, Bring a blanket. Bring a date. That's all. 

1 

The gimmickry was unnecessary. The one thing that will sell a good blues concert -the talent -was ignored. It shouldn't have been. The talent is god. Very good. 
It starts with Fred McDowell. Fred McDowell is a man who spent the major part of his life in Southern obscurity, and he's ready to return any day. His rasping voice and his smooth, articulate guitar graces three records, the most famous perhaps being Long Way from Home, a 
Milestone production. And in the spring, he will drive a tractor, because that's the kind of rna n he is, not: the Blues are life life, but: his life is the Blues. 

Page 6 

"Kubrick provides the viewer with the closest equivalent to psychedelic experience this side 
• 1" -Time "A f

0 f haIIUCinogens. an-
Magazine 
tastic movie about man's 

future I An unprecedented psy­chedelic roller coaster of an ex· 
• 1"-Life
perlence . Magazine"KubriC• k' s '2001' iS the Ultimate trip I"-~~~~::rn Science 
Friday, September 11, 1970
7HB O&rERfJE/l. 




SSO undergoes renovation 
by Mary Kay Davy 

Diane Shahade, General Chair­man of SMC's Student Services Organization said yesterday that with several new programs and the extension of old ones, the SSO hopes to successfully meet student needs. 
One innovation in the '70-'71 school year is a merger of the SSO Academic 4mmis­sion with Notre Dame's. Through this combined effort it is hoped that more lectures, films, etc. can be offered with an equal sharing of campus fac­ilities. 
Gab fests between faculty and students are to be continued. However, to eliminate transpor­tation problems and to enable wider student involvement, at· tempts are being made to bring the faculty into the dorms for closer personal contact with stu­dents. 
Diane also said that the SMC Coffee House is a target for innovation. Under the direction of Ceci Fortune, Bee Miller, and Kathy Hillgart activities are being expanded to try and make the coffee house more appealing puses will be posted jointly in to the majority of the students. the future. 
Because of poor attendance at The SSO is now working on movies last year such as educa-the annual book sale and the tiona! movies concerning con-campus directory. The book sale temporary issues such as drug is being held today and Saturday use and abuse, new movies are in the SMC Clubhouse from 10 being sought. a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Shahade expressed another Future goals, according to major concern as being one of Miss Shahade, include a com­publicity. "Bulletin boards are mittee on summer jobs and the too often ignored yet, students possibility of a student center. continue to complain that they Miss Shahade stated she feels were unaware of events." "there is a definite need for a 
One step being made to help place to go on the SMC campus in this area is a combined ND during the evening hours." One Student Union -SSO Calendar. suggestion is to convert the cof­Coming events on both cam-fee shop into such a place. 
ND security improved 
by Tom Bornholdt 
Extensive improvements in the Notre Dame security system were accomplished during the summer vacation, Arthur Pears, Director of Security revealed yesterday. Pears also asked that students refrain from parking in the Stepan Center parking loL 
The C3 parking lot has been 
G R EAY STATES THEATRES ;g;rs_;l~ 
Feature Time

NOW 

1:45; 5.-oo,. 8:15 
Back Downtown and at Regular Prices 

a wad leigh-maurice, ltd. production technicolor® from warner bros. 
a 
garden of 


sensuality 
a CINEX film: eastman color 
SEE BOTH AS LATE AS 8:30 
WITHOUT 
MERCY. 
SATURDAY, SEPT. 12  1:30, 4:00, 7:00, 9:30, MIDNIGHT  
SUNDAY, SEPT. 13  2:00 and 8:00 ONLY  
M em hers Free 


Knights of Columbus 

Non-Members $1.00 
~------------------------------------------­
fenced off, he said and new lights have been installed at the C2 parking lot. Pears declared that his department has more cars than last year, and that lights have been installed around the stadium. Four light fixtures though remain to be installed; three at the northeast end and one at Gate Fourteen. 
"We are endevoring to hire a full time investigator," Pears said. 
Pears also revealed that a student patrol would start this weekend. He said the patrol has approximately twelve students, of which two would patrol the lots each night. 
"Stepan Center is not a parking lot for students," Pears repeatedly said. He stated that Stepan Center parking space was meant for campus visitors, and warned that if it was blocked by ND automobiles, people would be unable to attend speeches, mixers and other special events. Pears went on to state that all students having cars with C3 decals will not be allowed to park there during home games. The same would apply to students possessing vehicles with 02 decals. 
All students with D2 decals would be asked to park their cars in Green Field, and Pears advised they do so the Friday night before home games. Pears said that he was trying to get all cars with C3 decals in to Green Field free, but all he could promise was that C3 cars would not be charged if they ~rrived at Green Field prior to 
ll:00. Cars with CJ decals will run a risk of being charged if they arrive later than 11 :00 and cars will need a decal to enter free. 
Pears commented about incidents during the summer vacation saying, "Compared to other summers theft was down". He went on to say that the only bad outbreak of vandalism was a rash of convertible top slashings one night. 
Pears finished with a list 01 recent incidents. He said that a car was stolen Wed. night from the C3 lot around 7:45pm. The car was alledgedly locked and Pears theorized that the thief must have possessed keys. The car was found intact on Western Avenue at 12:30. A student was apprehended for trying to force open a cigarette machine in Morrissey Hall, Pears reported. A senior caught three juveniles who had stolen student proper­ty, including a class ring and a billfold containing $31. 

L___________________________________________________________________________.______ 

Friday, September 11, 1970 TIIB O.&rU11£1t Page 7 




N·V Program Harried 
(continued from page 2) 

evaluations during his year in the philosophy department. While the whole story is not complete­ly known, apparently Mr. Cor­radi harl "personal differences" with members of the department and his contract with the phil­osophy department was not re­newed. Last year Corradi went to Yale on a grant from this university to study Heidegger and non-violence, with the implicit int::ntion that he return to Notre Dame to teac:h two courses in t'le non-violence pro­gram, one in "Death, care and non-violence" and one entitled "Ahisma and agape." As a result of the hiring restrictions placed upoa the non-violence program, Mr. Corradi was not approved by the philosophy department and could not return to Notre Dame. 
While certainly no one would 1rgue that the program of non -violence should be the sponsor of half-baked revolutionaries with no academic competence, it does appear that the ability of the program to hire men that are both academically competent l nd devoted to non-violent social change is seriously impair­ed, as the case of Mario Corradi indicates. As the question was asked last spring, does the Army ROTC department submit its faculty requests to the depart­ment heads in the Arts and Letters College? No. Faculty in the ROTC units were approved by Father Walsh when he was in charge of academics just as all prospective faculty had to be approved. It seems only reasonable to hope that in the future the program for non 
-violence will be able to hire the men that teach courses within the program itself, while men that offer only one or two courses in the non-violence pro­gram, for example in the psych­ology of aggression, will be un­der the control of the psych­ology department chairman. 
The funding of the non -violence progran originally came from a Gulf Oil Corp. grant of $100,000 that was solicited by Father Hesburgh. The question that will arise in the near future is whether the program will be supported through the University budget or through other grants that are procured by the Administration for the program's use. The first course might arouse the anger of already underfunded department chairmen, while dependence upon the goodwill of outside wealthy benefactors contains its own obvious perils. 
The interdisciplinary nature of the non-violence program has yet to be fully taken advantage of. It is apparent that conflict resolution is not limited to any one area of study, but contains political, economic, sociological, biological, psychological, theo­logical and philosophical dimen­sions. 
The most serious objections to the program arise from the men that believe that the pro­gram was last year involved mostly in political propaganda, draft counseling, tactical discuss­ions, and other "non-academic" matters. The program, it was said, lacked objectivity. Me-
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind .. 46556. 
Carthy and students within the program agreed that the program lacked objectivity, but claimed that no professor can ever be truly objective and for a profess­or to be truthful anc relevant he must take a stand that is based upon a personal commitment. As Dr. Storey of the theology 
department said last spring, "The men within the non -violence program tend to be more hairshirts than comfort­ers." 
But the critics of the program are not to be ignored. Father Maurice Amen, the new director of the program who has been in the theology department heree, will hopefully be able to improve upon the courses that were begun last year while continuing to further the prac­tical work that students within the program involved themselves 
in last year. 
Dr. Basil O'Leary is the other faculty member within the pro­gram who was hired through the economics department. O'Leqry, a former Christian brother who 


ow to tap a 
eg 
(and tie into the best reason in the world to drink beer) 
1Pick up a half-barrel of Bud® (good for about 245 12-ounce cups ... with foam) and the tapping equip­ment on the day of the party. Just set the beer in a tub of ice to keep it cold. 

earned his doctorate in econom­ics from Notre Dame and later headed the economics depart­ment at St. Mary's College in Minnesota, recently finished serving time as a counselor in a boys correctional institute for his involvement in the Mil­waukee 14 draft file burning. 
Anthony Denaro, a lawyer from New York who was supposed to teach within the program this year, yesterday called Father Amen and said that he would not be able to come to Notre Dame this year because of family reasons. 
Nevertheless, the non-violence program will offer five intro­ductory seminars, two advanced seminars, two courses on the life and works of Thomas Merton, a course on the psychology of Carl Jung with Dr. Morton Kelsey, and a seminar with Father Daniel Boland from the Counseling Psych(Jlogy Center. 
In Monday's Observer, Rick Smith will interview Father Amen and Dr. O'Leary. 

THE NEW 


CORBY'S 
~pen dally 
11:00 am • "! Beer, Wine and Pool 
Carry-out Service (THE KING ON TAP) 

Bring a friend or two 
2Just before the party begins, tap your beer. First, make sure the beer faucet is closed (you wouldn't want to waste a drop of Beechwood Aged Bud!). Then, insert the faucet­and-pump unit into the upper valve of the keg, give it a quarter turn clockwise, and lock it in place by tightening the lower wing nut. 
3Next, insert the lager tap in the lower valve of the keg and give it a quarter turn. Now, set the keg upright in a tub and pack ice around it. 
4You're now ready to draw beer. Pump pressure to the proper point for good draw, usually about 15 lbs. That's all there is to it, but there's no rule against sampling just to make sure everything is perfect. Ahhhhh! It's no wonder you'll find more taverns with the famous "Bud on Draught" sign than any other! 

Page 8 


Friday. September 11, 1970 



Barz, Kelly, others back in action 

The Wednesday scrimmage for The men who have come off According to Athletic director 
the Notre Dame football team of injuries with no after effects Edward "Moose" Krause,'"Since had a few notes of good news are Walt Patulski and Bob there will be no other television for Irish fans. A number of the Neidert. Patulski was a demon coverage of the game and since injured starters returned to the demand for tickets in this
on defense as he continually
·action although most of them second team quarter­area has been high, the closed
harassed didn't perform at full speed. telecast will provide football
backs throughout the afternoon. Most riota ble of the returnees fans in this area an opportunity
Other news concerning the was Bill Barz, the fullback who Notre Dame football team was to see the game." has been injured since returning not so bright. The Michigan to practice in late August. Barz State game has been announced Other word from the ticket playing time was limited and he as a sellout and because of a Big office says. that there are still a admitted that he was not yet at Ten rule prohibiting televising limited number of tickets re­100%. Sophomore Mike games (except nationally) there maining · for some of Notre 
Creaney returned for some Dame's home games. There is a
will be no free TV. action at his tighL er,d spot along However, there is permission possible chance that a small with co-captain Tim Kelly at number of tickets will be made
granted for closed circuit tele­
availabk students
linebacker. Both should be ready vision. This will be held in the to for the for the opener next Saturday at Athletic and Convocation Center Michigan State game via a 
student Word
Northwestern. and prices will be $2 and $4. trip. has not yet bee.1 ~.,onfirmed on this. 

Denny McLain is in trouble 
by Milton Richman Completely defeated. which had been brought to his This time it was different.
UPI Sportswriter attention. The hearing Wednesday was These allegations were dif­NEW YORK (UPI) -Denny not conducted in Kuhn's office. ferent from the old ones like McLain is in trouble. It was held in the Wall Street law being involved m gamblingThat much he knows already office of Donovan, Leisure, activities and dousing two but what he doesn't know is Newton and Irvin which is only sportswriters with pails of water. 
bow much trouble he's really in. 13 floors up. Denny McLain was Now McLain was being asked 
Denny McLain needs help. completely in the dark when he why he felt it necessary to careyMore than he has received so far arrived at 10:22 a.m. 
a gun.and that has been considerable. "What's this all about?" he 
Denny McLain wrinkled his 
The last time Bowie Kuhn, asked Joe Reichler, the com­brow over the "new allegations"the baseball commissioner, missioner's public relations man. and did his best to explain them summoned McLain for a hearing "I have no idea why I've been away. He did his usual job of 
was seven months ago at Kuhn's called." explaining which is to say not office 20 floors up from the "Take it easy," Richler told particularly good. street. the anxious 26-year-old Detroit Denny McLain left the build­
When Bowie Kuhn told him righthander. "Stay cool." ing by way of the back stairs. He then he was suspending him for Two hours later, McLain had has been taking the backstairs three months McLain said later a better idea of what it was all more and more lately. Pretty he looked down from those 20 about. With his lawyer, Bill soon there may not be even any stories to the street below and Aikens, and his personal repre­of those to use. A man can get for an instant anyway, consider­sentative, Bill Carpenter, in at­to feel rather trapped that way. ed jumping. tendance, McLain listened as Kuhn and Aikens went down 
He felt depressed then. Kuhn told of new allegations to the 12th floor for the purpose of reading individual statementsTerry Shields =:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:= to the news media. One newsman had a question. He wanted to know what Dr.
The Irish Eye . 
Clarence Livingood was doing at the hearing? 

~:::;::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::pICkS 
"I don't know," Aikins said, The first weekend of college football is already upon us, thanks to 
then bolted from the room. the NCAA committee, who decided that everyone should have an 
Dr. Clarence Livingood is opportunity to play an eleventh game. Thus some outstanding 
chief of dermatology at Ford matches that couldn't have occurred otherwise, have been scheduled 
Hospital in Detroit. The one This was a good idea but what the NCAA overlooked was that 
thing Denny McLain is not suf­most schools have now booked the "eleventh game" up to six years 
fering from is a skin rash. in advance. This defeats the purpose of the extra game, but for this season it has cooked up some fine pairings. PU qb is uncertain 

Bill Barz returned to action in Wednesday's scrimmage. Barz This is the way the first Saturday shapes up: had been injured since practice began in August. 
Stanford over Arkansas: The Razorbacks had two tough LAFAYETTE, Ind. (UPI) ­opponents last season, they lost to both of them. It will be Jim Purdue football coach Bob De­Plunkett out-passing Bill Montgomery in a "Year of the Moss Thursday relieved two Quarterback" duel. quarterback prospects of signal 



MAJOR LEAGUES
Southern California over Alabama: The Bear will find the going calling duties and cut to three tough if he steps steps that far out of the south to pick opponents. the number seeking to take over The clutch Trojans should win by a pair I of touchdowns. for graduated All-America Mike NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Florida over Duke: John Reaves should passthe Blue Devils out of Phipps. 

East w L Pet. GB East w L Pet. GB
Northe Carolina, with or without questionable starting end Carlos DeMoss reluctantly informed 

New York 76 67 .531 Baltimore 91 51 .641 
Alvarez. senior Jeff Jones of Park Ridge, y,
Pittsburgh 75 67 .528 New York 81 61 .570 10 
Oklahoma ove,r S¥U: Chuck Hixson should do more passing, but Ill., and sophomore Ted Chicago 75 68 .525 1 Detroit 75 68 .524 16% Jack Mildren will ru)i\~ more powerful offense. The Sooners first trip Golembiewski of Brownsville, St. Louis 68 75 .476 8 Boston 74 68 .521 17 to the Cotton Bo~l sh,buld be a pleasant affair. Pa., that he had decided to go Philadelphia 66 78 .459 10% Cleveland 67 76 .468 24% 
UCLA over Oregoti State: This game will be a lot closer than most into Saturday's game scrimmage Montreal 61 80 .432 14 Washington 66 75 .468 24% people would expect. The Bruins will miss the injured Mickey with these quarterback 
West West
Cureton, their top rusher from last season. prospects: 

Cincinnati 92 53 .634 Minnesota 84 56 .600
West Virginia over William & Mary: The Mountaineers have three Sophomore Chuck Piebes, 

Los Angeles 77 64 .546 13 Oakland 78 63 .553 6%
soft touches before they run into BIG TEN Indiana. Valhalla, N.Y. 

San Fran. 74 68 .521 16% California 76 66 .533 9
Mississippi State over Oklahoma State: The Bulldogs hould have Sophomore Gary Danielson, 

Atlanta 71 73 .493 20% Kansas City 54 86.386 30
just enough to get by the Cowboys, but neither will do much in their Dearborn, Mich. 

Houston 68 74 .479 22% Milwaukee 53 87 .379 31 conferences. Senior Vic Baltzell, Louisville. San Diego 54 89.378 37 Chicago 51 92 .357 34% Kansas State over Utah State: Lynn Dickey will give the Aggies a "It's one of the things I don't lesson about Purple Pride. like about coaching," DeMoss New York 3 Philadelphia 2, 14 inn. New York at Baltimore California over Or~gon: The Golden Bears will reveal the "new 0. said, "but it's the team that Chicago beat Montreal Oakland at Minnesota (2) J" when Isaac Curtis lugs the pigskin for the first time on a varsity counts, and we've got to limit No score available Milwaukee at Kansas City (2) St. Louis at Pittsburgh Boston at Detroit
level. UPSET OF THE WEEK the number of people we work 

Cincinnati at Los Angeles Washington at Cleveland
Georgia Tech over South Carolina: The Yellowjackets have a new with at this stage of the game." 

Houston at San Francisco
find in soph quarterback Eddie McAshen. Improving Tech just might 

Atlanta at San Diego
catch Paul Dietzel's Gamecocks not ready for the season. 

Sports staff
In other games it should be Texas A&M over Wichita State, Kansas over Washington State, Nebraska, by a mile, over Wake Forest, Kentucky over North Carolina, Villanova over Maryland,. There will be a meeting of The Missouri over Baylor, Navy over Colgate, Army over Holy Cross, Air Observer sports staff this after­Force over Idaho, Clemson over the Citadel, Texas Tech over noon at 6:30 in 211 Zahm Hall. Tulane, North Carolina over Richmond, Virginia Tech over Virginia, Assignments for the fall will be and Toledo over East Carolina. discussed. 






