Agnew: Demos use the "big lie" 
STORY IN COLUMNS 1 &2 

Agnew attacks 

Demo candidates 
SAN CLEMENTE, Calif. ments about campaign smears (UPI) -Vice President Spiro T. echoed comments made by Agnew emerged from a two hour Nixon following a campaign ap­meeting with President Nixon pearance Saturday night in Salt yesterday and accused Demo­Lake City. crats of using "the big lie" to "Those who engage in this raise unwarranted fears that the type of tactic owe an apology to country is headed toward "a the workers, their families and 
f.. :.

recession, depression or worse." their opponents;' Nixon told 
"The Democrats are using the newsmen before flying back to kind of fear or scare tactics that the Western White House. President Nixon and Vice their wives they continuously accuse me of leave services at the La Jolla Presbyterian Church yesterday
Agnew cited in particular 
(Photo by UPII

using," Agnew told an outdoor Democrat John V. Tunney who the prime interest rate has de­economists generally believe isnews conference at the Western is seeking the Senate seat of clined and the rate of inflation­necessary to avoid increases inWhite House. Republican George Murphy. 
when figured in three month unemployment.
Agnew said Democratic candi­The President and Vice Presi­segments-has declined during In addition to Tunney, whom dates for the Senate in Cali­dent discussed their personal the first three quarters of this he cited by name, Agnew saidfornia, Nevada and Utah have ca.rnpaign swings in Nixon's San year, he claimed. Democrats who were using fearpredicted the administration will Clemente office after attending Agnew did not mention that tactics included Democratic Sen­close or reduce activity at key services together at La Jolla Pres­although real GNP has improved ate candidates in Nevada andmilitary bases throwing great byterian church. 

from last winter and spring when Utah-Sens. Howard Cannon and numbers of people out of work. Agnew said both her and the it declined, the most recent Frank Moss, and the Democratic "I want to brand those state­President were impressed in their figures show a rate of growth candidate for Governor of Kan­ments.. .false and maliciously travels by the vitality of the l~ss that half of that which sas.
false." Agnew said. nation, adding, "this certainly is At the same time, President not a sick country." He has 
Nixon emphasized his concern covered 32 states and approxi­
about law and order with a 

Ticket plan 0 K'd
mately 32,000 miles in his cam­special directive to the Justice paign. Nixon has covered 22 By Floyd Kezele Father Joyce, who had been Department to assist in investi­out of town for the greater part 
states and about 15,000 miles. 
Approval for the plan to don­

gating all attacks on police "This is nothing more than of last week, was unavailable 
ate Notre Dame student football 

officers. when the plan's organizers
the big lie," Agnew said of tickets for the Georgia Tech

"We have seen shooting of sought him, and thus the future
Democratic charges that the un­game to children from South

officers as they sat in their pat­of the event remained uncertain.
employment is rising and infla­Bend was given recently by Fa­

rol cars. We have seen bombs However, Candon saill,"Both
tion spiraling. 
ther Edmund P. Joyce following 

planted and booby traps set for Father Joyce and ticket manager 
He said all of the recognized some uncertainly as to whether

investigating officers. We have Donald Bouffard have been ex­
indicators of economic activity the plan would be approved. 

seen unarmed police officers "in opposite direc­tremely cooperative with us
point the on
Jack Candon and Eric Andrus, 

shot at their desks in police this project, and once we were
tion." 
organizers of the proposal, said

stations," Nixon said in a state­able to contact Father Joyce he
The "real GNP," the measure that there had been some doubt

ment. gave us his approval." 
of the value of goods and ser­that the plan would be approved 

He said the Justice Depart­Under current plans Notre
vices excluding the effect of because of a clause in the ticket

ment's investigative resources inflation " is steadily improving," Dame students would turn in 
policy that states that any trans­

should have a "deterring effect" their football tickets for the
he said. 
fer or sale of the ticket would

on such activity. Georgia Tech game on N:lvem­
Housing starts are up sharply, result in confiscation. 

The Vice President's state-ber 14 to the ticket office at the 
A.C.C. during the preceeding week. Gmdon stressed that the

Volunteers paint fieldhouse 

student's tickets would not leave the office but that their numbers would only be transferred to
to be ready for showings 

special tickets for the children of South Bend, with students being which will take place every other
Last Saturday from I 0 a.m. to able to pick up their tickets
shows will be open to productsSunday and small dramatic pre­

5 p.m. combined voluteers from from the A.C.C. the following
of any member of the studentsentations. Already there are

Notre Dame· and St. Mary's met Tuesday.
body. 

to paint the old fieldhouse, now two on-campus drama groups Once the tickets are collected, the Cultural Arts Center. They that are willing to perform. . The administration projects letters will be sent out to the replied to a plea publicized in The second group, made up that 1.7 million dollars will be children's parents explaining the The Observer and through mainly of Art Dept. members, needed to renovate the field­project and monitors would be various handbills posted around continued its chore of house completely. The Arts assigned for each ten children the campus: The leaders of the converting a locker room and Council is asking for $6,800 for attending the game. Candon said groups expressed disappoint­showers into an Art Gallery. their activities this year. They that other details such as the ment at the attendance, 20 peo­They have been working orl this are also asking the support of exact procedure for turning in ple, but said they expected it. gallery, called Isis, after the the student body. one's ticket would be made 
Those present were then or­Egyptian god of light and dark­The two endeavors previously available at a later date after ganized into two groups by ness, for some time now in mentioued are only a start· to­further talks with Mr. Bouffard. Richard Fitzgerald, the leader of expectation of their first room wards what there people believe Letters explaining the project the group. Fitzgerald is a mem­show. the Fieldhouse can be. will be mailed today to partici­ber of the Arts Council, which This is to take place on Fri­The solution of the Arts pating (Children's parents with 
has been the driving force be­day, November 6 and run for Council to an old eye-sore of a instructions' to reply by Friday. 
hind this endeavor. Volunteers roughly two weeks. The three building which no one wants is a The replies will determine the source students center, would
came mainly from this people whose works will be ex­which exact number of tickets needed 
and the Art Departm. nt, al­hibited are John Kelly, Dan primarily be dedicated to the and prevent any extra ticket though a few of those present Molidor and Paul Jalbert, all of arts but which could branch out donations. Monitors will be as­were not affiliated with either of whom are University Art Stu­to envelope all student activities signed for every ten children dents. The show will be com­under one roof. According to
these two organizations. attending the game. Candon said 
The first group took a former posed of work done by the trio Fitzgerald, "The future of the that other details such as the 

fieldhous a cultural Art Cen­

ticket office and transformed it while traveling through Europe. as exact procedure for turning in 
into a Dramatic Arts Center. The emplasis, in this and fu­ter, its continued existence or one's ticket would be made 
demise, is in the hands of the

This center will be primarily ture shows will be on the stu­available at a later date after
student body."

dedicated to poetry readings, dent's work. Most of the future further talks with Mr. Boufford. 
Monday, November 2, 1970 



NCATE 
to rate 

ND-SMC 

By Ann Therese Darin One week from today the National Coucnil for Accredita­tion of Teacher Education will 
begin  a  comprehensive  evalua­ 
tion  of  St.  Mary's  and  Notre  
Dame.  

This evaluation, according Dr. Eugene A Campanale, newly ap­pointed chairman of St. Mary's education department, may re­sult in a ten-year unqualified teaching accreditation for Notre Dame. St. Mary's may also profit from the critique of the IO-man NCATE team by receiving a ten­year unqualified accreditation for its secondary education de­partment. 
"Notre Dame is not accre­

dited now, " revealed Dr. Cam­panale. "Although over 200 Notre Dame students come to take classes at St. Mary's in the education department which is 'accredited, they take the rest of their requirements for a degree 
at Notre Dame which has not 
yet been accredited," he said. 
SMC merited initial NCATE accreditation in 1958. At this time, the elementary education program received and "un­qualified recommendation" for 10 years. The secondary educa­tion department, however, only received a three-year accredita­tion pending further working re.­lationship of the coexchange program. 
Since the NCATE team last evaluated the educational system here, Dr. Campanale and his department have worked to rec­tify the problems. For example, at the time of the last evalua­tion, there was no record kept of the Notre Dame students major­ing in education at St. Mary's. Today, not only are records maintained in the SMC office of education, but Dr. Campanale also made sure that both Notre Dame and St. Mary's students receive equal treatment in the department by having the same requirements. 
Another problem present when the team last evaluated the department was the counseling 
program for education majors·. In the past, the Notre Dame student had no advisor from the St. Mary's education depart­ment. "Now we have 5 advisors to counsel 650 plus students," disclosed Dr. Campanale. "I feel that this is one of our principal jobs." 
When the NCATE educators come in two weeks, they will be presented with a 438 page report of education on this campus. The result of a summer vacation or' work by Dr. Campanale and his staff, the report is an in­depth analysis of the Institute of Education at St. Mary's and 
(Continued on Page 2) 


Page 2 

POSITION OPENING 
Ass'f. Business Mgr. Call Bruce 7471 or 6787 
CULTURA(.. ARTS COMMISSION 
PRESENTS­
THE GRADUATE 
NOV. 5 & 6 7:30 & 10:00 PM 
WASHINGTON HALL 
GENERAL ADMISSION $1.00 
CONTEMPORARY ARTS FESTIVAL 
BERGMAN'S FESTIVAL 
PRESENTS 
SEVENTH SEAL 
NOV. 2 8:00 & 10:00 PM ENGINEERING AUD­
THROIJGH A GLASS 
DAMLY 
NOV. 4 8:00 & 10:00 PM ENGINEERING AUD. 
ADMISSION-$1.00 each night, CAF patrons free 
Holiday Bound? 
Stop sittingaround! 
Allegheny's Young Adult Card lets you fly whenever you want to (even holidays), gives you advance reservations and saves you up to 331/J%. 
If you're between 12 and 22, what are you waiting for? Stop by an Allegheny Airlines ticket counter and purchase . your Young Adult Card. Only $5.00 for the rest of 1970. 
And remember, Allegheny also accepts other airlines Y01.mg Adult Cards, too. 
ALLEGHENY AIR SYSTEM® We have a lot more going for you 
Monday, November 2, 1970

THB O.&S'ERVER. 
Niemeyer: future politics 

By Bro. Jim Snedlock 

International political rela­tions in a world beyond commu­nism was the topic of Professor Gerhart Niemeyer's lecture in the library Auditorium last Thurs­day night. Dr. Niemeyer, at Notre Dame since 1955, presented his lecture from an article to be published in December. by Pacific Community a Japanese-based publication. 
The lecture centered on how 
international relations will go in a post-Communist world. The decline and end of Communism as an ideology, the development of four industrial world centers and the development of a politi­cal order based on East-West 
cultures were future develop­ments forseen by Dr. Niemeyer. The idea of political order, he said, would develop from cul­tures containing the principles of 
contemplation and meditation, and the nature of man's being in rel<>tion to other men. 
Dr. Neimeyer said Commu­nism was based on the historical view that man's destiny is a classless society. This is the motivation of Communism to­day, Niemeyer said. This motiva­tion is propounded with devo­tion and toleration, even the toleration of the inadequacies of the Communist Party. 
Communist expansion is centered on ideology and not in boundary or territorial acquisi­tions, said Dr. Niemeyer. Expan~on by Communism proceeds by the domination of peoples with complete allegiance to the Com­munist Party. Dr. Niemeyer pointed out that the primary aim of Communism in countries like Korea and South Vietnam is control of the government machinery. This, he said, is necessary to coerce the people toward Party allegiance. 
LOST: 

BLACK MALE PUPPY 
REWARD: 
CALL 232-5546 


That Communism has run its end of the present world course is written on the histori-Communist ideology. cal horizon, said Dr. Niemeyer. The pattern for international Evidence is cited in the Cultural relations after the end of the Revolution of the Chinese Communist threat will center on Communist Party in Spring, 1968 th_e development of four ind~s­where the Army, not the Party, tnal world areas: East A~Ia, has gained the people's aile-Western ~urope, No:th Amenca giance. Also, the events of and Russia. There Is no. trend Czechoslavakia in 1968 show the now that would predict a trend away from full allegiance successor t? Commun_ist ideo­to the Party. Dr. Niemeyer logy. ~r. Nie_meyer pomted out pointed out that it is unrealistic that Ideologies such~--anar­to give a date regarding the final . (Continued on Page 4) 
Rating sought by N D 
(Continued from Page 1) 
Notre Dame. This Institute, "a unique conglomerate of cognate educational enterprises of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College," includes the Office for Educational Research, the Counseling Center, the Of­fice of Teacher Preparation, St. Mary's department of education, and the department of graduate studies in education. 
The report also outlines the evaluators' major areas of inter­est: the placement of qualified faculty in their particular fields, the quality of students in the department, and an evaluation of the physical plants of both schools. 
Besides listing the Institute of Education as it exists today, the study also forecasts some long and short term objectives for the teacher education program. 
These goals include: (1) the use of teaching assistants from Notre Dame by the St. Mary's College education faculty, (2) an increased two-way exchange of faculty between the graduate de­partment of Notre Dame and the undergraduate department of St. Mary's and (3) counseling of students by the entire staff rather than by one or two indi­viduals. 
Other stated objectives in­clude the participation of staff members in the supervision of 

CHICAGO 

715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500• ZIP: 60611 
Sales tax where applicable 

student teachers and the intro­duction of a Montessori class for students to acquaint them with the Montessori approach. 
The report is also signifi­cant as a predictor of the future of the two institutions. "There is rapidly taking place a union, not a merger, of the two institu­tions," the report states. Ac­cording to the report, the SMC education department has suc­cessfully fused with Notre Dame's department to become a genuine asset to the university community. 
"Given the resources of a na­tional university like Notre Dame and a prestigious women's college like St. Mary's College, we arc convinced that we can assist importantly in meeting the educational challenges of the seventies with our innovative structure," the report read. 
"Even as the basic St. Mary's­Notre Dame relationship is itself innovative, distinctive, and 
mutually  enriching,  so  is  the  
Institute  a  structure  which  
unites  the  educational  enter­ 

prises of the two institutions," continued the text. "Granted that there are aspects of our institutional structure which are bold departures from the ac­cepted, we deliberately want to -break out of the patterns of the past to better prepare our young people to assume the serious responsibility for the quality of 
human life." 

By receiving NCATE accredi­tation, a student who graduates from the St. Mary's department of education will automatically receive certification in at least 28 states. Many other states, according to Dr. Campanale, will also recognize the accreditation, but not officially. 
One other NCATE advantage is that it provides students with the opportunity of working for a teaching license while in Indiana. 
Although this is Dr. Cam­panale's first major task as chair­1aan of the St. Mary's education department, he is no stranger to the campus educational system. He received his B.A. and M.A. from Notre Dame and was formerly dean of the graduate department of education at St. Mary's ( 1965) and worked in Notre Dame's Office for Educa­tional Research ( 1968) and Of­fice of Teacher Preparation. 
Last year, he participated in one of the NCATE evaluations of Fordham University, New York, in preparation for up­coming evaluation of Notre Dame. 
WHY PAY MORE FOR USED FURNITURE & APPLIANCES? 
CALL BILL; 232-2646; SELLING & BUYING. 
The Observer is published dally during the college-semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre bame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
The trouble with beating Navy •IS••• 
by Terry Shields 
Observer Sports Editor 
Last Thursday, Notre Dame's right guard Gary Kos explained the problem that a nationally ranked team like Notre Dame faces when it plays a once victor­ious team like the Naval Academy. "I really hate to play in one of these games. There is nothing you can do to impress people. If you win big then they say you're piling on the score and if it's close then some may say that we don't have that much." 
On Saturday Kos and his teammates took the first approach to the problem and the undefeated Irish pummeled the Navy by the convincing score of 56-7. It was a typical ND rout. The statistics were totally dominated by the Domers and the second team once again saw as ~uch action as the first. 
Irish Score First 

The contest was enjoyable for a neutral football for only one quarter then only Irish eyes could be found smiling. The Irish took the opening kickoff and marched relentlessly for 80 yards and a touchdown. Joe Theismann, who put on another brilliant dispaly of how to play quarterback, threw only one pass in this drive and that was a 17 yard beauty to Tom Gate­wood, the nation's leading re­ceiver going into the contest. 
Darryll Dewan, substituting for a shaken-up Ed Gulyas, carried six times in the drive for over 30 yarrfs including a three yard burst for the touchdown. 
Navy surprisir.gly came right back and caught ~he vaunted Notre Dame defense napping. Middie qb Ade Dillon fired two passes to end Clul Schwelm for a total of 57 yards and this set up the five yard keeper play by which the Midshipmen scored. 
Gatewood Nears Record 
The score remained knotted at seven for the remainder of the period and then the Irish broke loose for their most productive stanza of the season. Taking 
advantage of good field position ND marched over the Navy goal line four times. Bill Barz, who didn't have a particularly good day, managed two dirt dives and Theismann found the "Swinging Gate" (Gatewood) with two six­point passes. The second brings the junior receiver close to Jim Seymour for most TD passes caught in a career (16), Gate­wood has 15. 
The first team sat out the final three minutes of the half and returned to action for one final drive in the third quarter. Denny Allan completed the 75 back, who was the leading rusher of the afternoon with 133 yards 

Statistics-600 more for offense 

TEAM STATISTICS USNA First Downs Rushing 5 First Downs Passing 7 First Down by PenaltY 1 TOTAL Fl RST DOWNS 13 
Number Attempts Rushing Yards Gained Rushing Yards Lost Rushing NET YARDS RUSHING Number Passes Attempted Number Passes Completed Number Passes Had Intercepted NET YARDS PASSING Number Plays Total TOTAL OFFENSE Number Interceptions Yards Interceptions Returned Number Times Punted Number Punts Had Blocked PUNTING AVERAGE Number Punts Returned NET YARDS PUNTS RT'D. Number Kickoffs Returned Yards Kickoffs Returned Number Times Penalized TOTAL YARDS PENALIZED Number Times Fumbled NUMBER FUMBLES LOST 37 119 42 
71 
31 12 3 151 68 228 1 0 9 0 35.4 0 0 9 144 4 40 1 0 NO 

NOTRE DAME NAVY  7 7  28 0  7 0  14 0  
SCORING NO: Dewan, 3 run, Hempel kick USNA: Dillon, 5 run, Lanning kick NO: Barz, 2 run, Hempel kick  

RECEIVING NO 
YDS 
22 
Gatewood 
5 75 10 Creany 
4 72 1 Allen 
2 17 33 Tereschuk 
2 28 
79 409 1 PUNTING NO 408 None 17 13 1 PUNT RETURNS NO 192 Schlezes 4 96 Crotty 1 600 3 KICKOFF RETURNS NO 32 Allen 1 0 0 0 5 65 1 
NAVY 15 1 8 3 RUSHING ATT YDS 2 Dillon 16 15 Canterna 11 65 Berry 5 5 Berry 5 3
56 
7 

NO: Barz, 1 run, Hempel kick NO: Gatewood, 6 pass from Theismann, Hempel kick NO: Gatewood, 29 pass from Theismann, Hempel kick NO: Allen, 3 run, Hempel kick NO: Cieszkowski, 30 run, Hempel kick NO: Minnix, 5 run, Hempel kick 
NOTRE DAME 
Elflein 
2 ·2 Ogden 
1 ·12 Kease 2 
8 
PASSING ATT COMP INT YDS Dillon 20 5 2 71 McNall en 11 7 0 80 
RECEIVING NO YDS 
Schwelm 4 62 
Barr 2 30 

RUSHING ATT YDS TO Pease 3 15 Theismann 6 49 0 Monson 1 15 Allan 11 48 1 Canterna 2 29 Barz 8 21 2 Dewan 16 55 1 Parker 4 24 0 Minnix 5 31 1 
PUNTING NO 

Ciesckowski 8 57 1 
Moore 9 

Gulyas 12 59 0 Steenberge 4 24 0 PUNT RETURNS NO 
Gallagher 4 36 0 None 
Trapp 1 4 0 KICKOFF RETURNS NO PASSING ATT COMP INT YDS TO Elflein 5 Theismann 13 10 1 161 2 Canterna 2 
yard drive with a sweep from three · yards away with 12 minutes remaining in the quar­ter. 
Pat Steenberge led the hungry shocktroops in quite a few drives but most of these drives faded without any results on the score­board. John "Cisco" Cieszkow­ski did dent the score sheet and probably a few Navy Helmets on a 30 yard sprint without any zigs or zags, just straight through the Navy team. 
Bob Minnix scampered his right end from five yards away to close the scoring for ND late in the game. 
Hempel 8 for 8 

Scott ~mpel kept kicking away at the record books as he booted 8 successful placements. 
After the game both coaches had praise for the man that usually wins praise, Joe Theis­
mann. The Roadrunner had 1700 folks down from his home town of South River, N.J. to cheer him on and he obligefl by completing ten of 13 passes for 161 yards plus ground gains of 49 yards in only six attempts. Joe has completed 80 'of .126 passes for a phenomenal 63.5%. Rick Forzano, Navy coach, said that if "there was any team better than Notre Dame he would have to see them." He also said that any great team "has to have that one super 
player that makes it go. It's obvious that on this awesome Notre Dame team Theismann is the man that does this. 
Irish coach Parseghian agreed whole-heartedly as he praised Theismann and Gatewood again as if it were a reconfing of previous post-game conferences. Ara would not commit himself on questions concerning bowl activity for his third ranked ball club. "We still have four impor­tant games left. If we get through those alright then we'll start thinking bowl." 
Defense Outstanding 
The defense once again played an outstanding game, that first drive by Navy notwithstanding. In particular, linebackers Rich Thomann, Jim Wright, and Tim Kelly along with defensive back Ralph Stepaniak were all very sharp for this game. 
Next on the menu,...er, ah schedule for Parseghian's crew is the University of Pittsburgh. The Panthers, who were ranked first in the East, were dropped back to earth by Syracuse, 43-13. This means that the Irish will have to win that much bigger to impress the pollsters. Bets from this desk say they should do that with no problem. 

Brown ignites frosh rally 
the Irish frosh played a rather
by Vic Dorr 

inept first half. Notre Dame
Observer Sportswriter 

took the opening kickoff, and
The Notre Dame Freshman 
on the second play from scrim­
Team received a good scare on 
mage quarterback Cliff Brown
Halloween, but in the end it was 
fumbled and Tennessee recover­
the spectre of a fourth quarter 
ed on the ND 17. Under the
jinx which returned to haunt 
direction of Chip Howard, the
coach Rex Dockery and his 
Vols quickly drove to the two,
Baby Volunteers. 

where halfback Haske! Stanback
For the second week in a row, 
slashed over for the score. Stan­
in 25 tries, scored two of the three Tennessee touchdowns,
TO 
2 His second tally of the afternoon 0 came with 17 seconds remaining 0 in the first period. Facing a 0 fourth and one situation from the Irish 28, Howard gave the ball to Stanback and the 6-2
AVG 
speedster bolted through a hole in the left side of the Irish line and raced unmolested for the 
YDS score. David Harper kicked the 57 point after, and Tennessee led 8 
14-0. Following this tally, the Notre 
YDS 
Dame frosh mounted a drive
15 which penetrated Volunteer territory, but could not sustain their momentum. Brian Dohl'r­ty, who is averaging 32 yards a kick as the Irish punter, got off a high kick which was downed by the Vols on their own 19. Howard, who performed artfully 
TO during the first half, drove his 1 team steadily downfield. How­0 ever, facing third and short yard­
0 

age from the Notre Dame 43,0 Howard was dropped for an 11 0 yard loss, and the Irish regained
0 

0 possession. The struggling ND · offense could move the ball but three yards, and again punted to the Vols. This time, the quick­
TO stepping Howard was not to be 0 caught. His offense knifed deep 0 into Irish territory, and after 
Stanback hadadvanced the ball to the five, Howard sprinted around right end and scored
TO 
himself. Notre Dame's Tom Ross
0 

blocked the extra point attempt,
0 0 

and Tennessee left the field at 0 half time in possession of a 20-0 0 lead. 
The Volunteers opened the third period by rolling to the Irish six, but with fourth and. 
AVG two from there, Howard was 35.4 
tackled short of the first down. Following this defensive stand,YDS momentum clearly shifted to 
Notre Thme. Aided by a call of YDS pass interference at midfield, the. 96 ND offense made its first deep 24 penetration of Tennessee terri-· Algery Frazier at the Tennessee 15, and four plays later halfback Mark Dunn split the Vol defense with a three yard scoring run. Brown, who has yet to miss an extra point, converted to make .the score 20-7. Although the fourth period was less than a minute old at this point, Tennes­see still appeared to have a com­fortable lead. But moments later, when the Irish defense forced the Vols to punt from midfield, the jinx which had seen Tennessee drop two pre­vious decisions to late-game rallies became a reality. 
Starting from his 'own seven, Brown hit Gary Diminick with successive passes, the second of which moved the ball to the 46. Again aided' by ·an interference penalty, Notre Dame advanced to the Vol 11. John Dwyer struggled to the six, and Dimi­nick threaded his way into the end zone on the next play. Brown's kick made it 20-14. Tennessee was unable to gener­ate any type of offense, and with less than five minutes re­maining, again punted to the Irish. Brown, who seems most effective in comeback situations, set the ND attack in motion. Faced with fourth down from his own 40, the Notre Dame quarterback chose to go --to. Algery Frazier for the crucial yardage. Frazier, who was the leading reciever of the game with six catches for 92 yards, took Brown's pass and was downed at the Tennessee 28. The play covered 3 2 yards. Brown ran the keeper to the 20, and with slightly more than two minutes remaining, Dunn dove for first down yardage at the 17. On the following play, Dunn sprinted into the end zone and broke for the left flag. Brown's pass was perfect, and Dunn's reception tied the score at 20-20. The kick 
·was good, and with 2:07 remain­ing, Notre Dame led 21-20. The Vols mounted a desperation drive, but a sparkling defensive effort by cornerback Mike Townsend, and an interception by guard Gary Potempa on the last play of the game wrapped up the win for the Irish frosh. 
For Tennessee, it was an un­believable and disheartening way to lose. But for Notre Dame, this game was a tonic, and will give them new life when they face the Michigan yearlings next 

Steenberge 4 3 0 31 0 Moore 2 24 tory. Brown found split end Saturday in Ann Arbor. 


Byt:!~~zger 
Student Union Academic Commissioner Jim Metzger, under criticism lately for pur­protedly presenting a biased speakers program, responded to his attackers recently by saying that they have over-emphasized the issues involved. · 
Metzger remarked that., "It doesn't upset me that the speak­ers have been one-sided as much as it does that they have received. such over-emphasized atten­

covering different backgrounds,
After communism 
beliefs and persuasions. 
answers charges 

Govern, Congressman John He further explained his com­
tion." 

Brademas, and Draft Resister David Hawk were not scheduled
ment in reference to Miss Atkin­or sought, but rather became
son's appearance. "The purpose available and were welcomed bywas to expose tqe students to the commission."

the philosophies behind the Wo­According to Metzger themen's Liberation Movement," commission's function is toMetzger said. However, with her sponsor people who have some­unexpectedly bitter message ac­thing to offer the Notre Damecompanied by the heckling of Community, whether it be cul­the audience, the whole affair 

proved counterproducitve. tural, political, or intellectual. He pointed out that the most 
. ''Furthermore, George Me-desirable policy is to present a variety of subjects and people, 

(Continued from Page 2) 
chism, communism and fascism have shown little success. Move­ments identified with the New 

· Left lack organization and ideo­logy, he said. 
The four industrial centers will cluster on common cultures. These centers would reach a ' point where technological development would be the same in all areas, hence there would be little existing rivalry. 
Problems faced in internation­al relations would be those of boundaries and trade. The ideo­logy problem would be non­existent without a successor to Communism. The boundary problem would be slight because of the lessons of the past. Dr. Niemeyer stated that the successes of Japan and Italy have shown that political domination of a country's needed natural resources is not necessary. Trade problems in relations would be diverted with countries operat­ing planned economies, keeping economic agitation away from 
Buckley invited 
William F. Buckley, editor of National Review magazine and noted national spokesman for conservatism, has been invited to speak at Notre Dame next April. Chris Wolfe, secretary of the Orestes-Brownson Society, said the society had contacted Buck­ley through National Review, but. definite plans or committ­ments could not be made at this time. According to Wolfe it won't be until late November or December before Mr. Buckley will be able to promise an ap­p_earance. 
GATES OF ... 
rmrm~ 
YOU WILL WITNESS .•. 
Proof of 8!111 reauir..,. 



the externar policies of a coun­As Metzger described it, there try. are inherent obstacles to cope 
International relations would with in preparing a calendar of be dependent on qualitative lectures, including a speaker's development. Dr. Niemeyer cancellation at the last minute .or 
his raising of a previously ac­
related the French student 

cepted fee. With problems suchrebellion of 1968 as disrupting 
the internal affairs of the coun­as these, arranging a perfectly balanced and organized calendartry bec;11use of demands for the 

nation's well-being. 
is very difficult. 

Parents' Weekend not for sophs only 
Speaking on the upcoming Parents Weekend, Gary Caruso, the Executive Coordinator for the Sophomore Class, told the Observer yesterday that he has a surplus of 100 tickets and stressed the fact that the week­end is for parents of all students, 
not just for Sophomore parents. 
Caruso, stating that the Soph­omores must sell the tickets or take a loss, explained that any­one who knows that their pa­rents are coming for the game 
and would like to come to the dinner, please telephone at 7935 or contact him at 309 Lyons. 
The dinner is Saturday night, after the game at Stepan Center. The price is $5.00 per person and it includes a catered Swiss Steak-Baked Potato meal as well las a talk by University President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh. 
The Sophomore class worked 

with the Social Commission last year, to obtain Sergio Mendez and Brazil '66 which should at­tract both younger and older generations. The show, is at 8: 3 0 · p.m. in the Athletic Convocation 
Center. 

Caruso emphasized the fact that he has 600 reserved tickets 
1 

waiting for parents that are coming to the weekend and he stated that the tickets would be available before and after the meal. 
~~;;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::;:::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~ 
tNight Editor:  D. P.  Ruane  t  
~=~:Layout:  J. D. F. Abell  ~~~~  
:;::Headlines:  T. J. Burke  :;:;  
:;::controller of the  Night:  :;:;  

:::: R.S. Smith, Jr.:::: lt::;:;:;:::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::l 
Hair. Styling 
_ Wr tiiJ..men the Continental WayRaz.or Cutting[;_ Style · 
Eur~pean L&yer Shaping for Loitg H:rir 
Have Long Hazr eli: Let Miss Treva & The Baro.P'/ Be Well Groomed Serve & Pamper You 
Continental Hair Styling 
'306 Sherland Bldg. South Ben:!, Ind. Student Rates 
t 
MOST COMPLETE ATHLETIC STORE IN THE AREA 
Adidas -Basketball, Soccer & Trac~ Shoes 
Northland Hockey Sticks 
Bauer Hockey Skat~s 
_ N.D. Jacket & Enblems 
T-Shirts imprinted for any organization 

.IDWDT ATHLETIC EQUIPIIEIIT 117 N HILL IT COIINEIIIO BEND AVE a HILL IT 
tel: 212-1110 

After Graduation • Tlten Wllat7 
Consider the 
~a~ist Bro~ers
lay ounteer rogram 
-Spend a year with us -stay as long as you like. 
-Work with young people in any one of 58 countries. 
Tocll•r 4:30 Fisher H•ll Lounae 
Tal• wftlt two Notre Dame Gn~duates now In the protram 
for more information 
283-1875 

Student Chapter o ASM • AIME 
·(Metallurgical Engiueering & Material Science) 
Presents a Lecture/Demonstration on 
MODERN GLASSES 
by 

Mr. Geor1e W. McClellan 
Cornln& Gl•ss Works 
November 3, 1970 at 7:30p.m. Engineering Auditorium 
Coffee & Donuts to Follow Admission Free Ever one Invited 
Unl~rsib of Pittsburah Cr•du•te School of a..iness 
MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM -II MONTHS 
A representatir e of the Graduate School of Business will be on campus to discuss graduate study in business at the. Unir ersity of Pittsburgh with juniors and senior& in all department!.; regardless of major field, who are interested in programs of study leading to the degrees of Master· of Business Administration or Doctor of Pi1ilosophy. 
The school's representative will be on campus. 
Friday, November 6 
For additional information and to arrange interviews please contact Mr. Vincent Raymond, Assistant Dean of Business, in the Hayes-Healy Center 
Penn.. residents h•ve low tuitions Fellowshlps •v•ll•ble for out-of-st•te students_ 






