

VOL. IV. NO. 85 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community MONDAY, MARCH 2, 1970 
Dave Krashna declares candid 
by Bill Carter 
Action t>rogram. voice for student opinion, hope-

Dave Krashna, emphasizing In declaring their candidacy, fully expressed by free indivi­openness and communication on Krashna and Winings both indi-duals." all levels of the University, cated that the center of their Krashna felt the present stu­formally announced his can-campaign would be the impor-dent administration had not ac­didacy for Student Body Prcsi-Lance of the individual. Much of complished all it could though dent last night. In the campaign the formal planning of their he did express his support for scheduled to begin tomorrow platform is based on a restruc-many of their programs. "I think Krashna plans on stressing the turing of student government to this year's student government "primacy of the individual over bring the main power base for was the true spirit of the the inslitul ion." Mark Winings, change into the individual resi-Student Body because last year's president of St. Edward's Hall. dence halls, where they feel the election was based on people will he Krashna's running mate total student environment can and Phil McKenna is very much and candidate for Studt'nt Body more easily work toward con-a person. But I believe they did Vil:c l'residenl. structive change in student-fail in obtaining student opinion 
Dave Krashna is 21, a junior related problems. in many instances. In many cases English major from Pittsburgh, "We are running on a plat-they seemed to lose contact with Pennsylvani<J. This year he has form stressing the importance of what the students wanted. We served as Human Affairs Com-the individual," Krashna said. He want to change th<Jt by getting missioner and Co-Chairman of stressed "the importance of back to the halls. What is re-the White Racism Conference. looking at people as persons, not fleeted in hall government In addition Dave has hclu posi-as black persons or white should act as a coordinative tions on the Alumni Relations persons but simply as persons. body, bringing together the 
and the hall-captains, primarilyBoard and the Recruitment We are seeking to provide a true views of the halls and organiza-by Steve Hoffman keeping the candidate informed 
c. t pIan lions on campus." Former Stay Senator Rich 
of those issues about which the
0 m m e n Ce m en Mark Winings i~ 20, a j.un!or Hunter, who is currently direct­
students show concern."
from Elwood Ind1ana, maJonng 
ing operations for the Tom er in Government. He seconded Thrasher-Greg Murray cam·. Hunter also observed that the
aIIOwStUdent 5Peak 
Krashna's goal of bringing the paign for Student Body Presi­Thrasher-Murray ticket will con­by Mike Ruffer stress in student government dent and Vice-President, yester­centrate heavily on conducting a the students will have some down to the level of the indivi­day outlined Thrasher's general campaign based largely on a per­
Senior class president, Jack dual, seeing the need for contact campaign structure. sonal, door-to-door approach.
Crawford, disclosed plans this voice in the selection. 
between people as the primary According to Hunter, five
week for the restwcturing of the Last year's senior class presi­Further, Hunter noted that 
direction of their candidacy. campus coordinators will pro­
1970 commencement exercises. dent, Dave Witt, first proposed the candidates will distribute a 
"Student Government should
For the first time in the 128 the idea of having a student vide the nucleus of the cam­series of five position papers not attempt to change all the paign's field activity. Each of
year history of the school there speaker at graduation to Father designed to acquaint the stu­
structures possible. Its only real 
these captains, Bob LaSalvia
will be a student speaker at the Hesburgh, but the idea was never dents with those goals which the 
role, as I see it, is to help in the from Keenan, Fred Giuffrida
commencement. In the past it followed through and the matter candidates seek to attain. 
has been customary to have a dropped. This year's senior development of the individual. It from Lyons, Joe Furganic from
was The position papers will deal
can provide ideas and leadership , 
St. Joseph, Dick Tarrier from
well known public figure to class officers once again with the question of co-educa­
but even leadership does not
address the graduating seniors approached Father Hesburgh on Alumni, and Bruce Kuennen tion, )he continuation of aca­
exist unless you know people, 
from Grace, will concentrate his
followed by Father Hesburgh's the idea, and were met with demic reform, the further devel­
unless you are people yourselves

address. overwhelming approval, Craw­activities on his particular sec­
opment of hall and class govern­
and I think this kind of feeling is 

tion of the campus.
According to Crawford, ford said. In fact Father sug­ment, the lessening of racial ten­
what is lacking right now on

Father Hesburgh personally se­gested that they could restruc­Concerning the chief func­sion on campus, and the 
campus. I don't put any blame

lects the guest speaker for the ture the entire commencement if tions of these coordinators, Hun­of off-campus liv­
improvement
on the last administration but I 

ter stated: "They will serve as a
commencement. Crawford they cared to, Crawford stated. 
(continued on page 3)

ex pressed hopes that this year To date, the only definite ·uason between the candidate (continued on page 2) change has been the student
Fraternity plans Used weapon of love 
speaker. The purpose of this, 
according to Crawford, is to hear

survey service 
how the students themselves feelA group oi students from the about the matters they will be 
(?ng2!~ y: r~mC!f~m,·,<?ou~! America 
Notre Dame chapter of the Al­the U.S. Navy and gained the
facing after graduation. He
pha Kappa Delta, the sociologi­"Tom Dooley's challenge to Commerce in 1950 and later love and respect of the people
stated that later in the semester
cal honor fraternity, have begun America is to reach out beyond received the Distinguished by helping refugees from North 
a consensus survey will be taken
The Student Survey Service. The itself, to actively participate in Flying Cross, among other de­Vietnam cross the seventeenth
where seniors will express their 
group plans intend to determine the actions and passions of its corations, for heroic actions in parallel into the South. 
views and opinions on matters
student, faculty and administra­time," said Malcolm Dooley, Korea. "Later, Tom went back to 
which they feel are important
tion opinions and attitudes on younger brother of one of the He outlined his brother's help those who ain't got it so 
and relevant to them. Senior
relevant, contemporary issues most distinguished men ever to fifteen year fight against death good. But soon Tom had the class officers will then take and
through the method of social attend Notre Dame. . and disease in Southeast Asia problem every Irishman has -he evaluate these replies, which will 
and dealt with the challenge the
scientific research. The results of Malcolm, a Detroit executive, ran out of money," Mr. Dooley 
serve as the basis for the student 
doctor left for others to meet. said.
the various surveys will be pub­addressed a small crowd in the
address. Jack Crawford, senior 
"I want to tell you about a At the same time Tom won­
lished in The Observer. library auditorium last night. He
class president, will deliver the man
The service is to be coordi­serves as Director of the Tom who accomplished mote in dered, "Am I doing the right
address. Prior to this, a student 34 years and a day than most
nated by the Executive Commit­Dooley Foundation which con­thing'! Am I really accomplishing tee and a corps of hall represent­speaker was present only at the tinues Dr. Dooley's work in people accomplish in 70 years," · anything?" and considered a 
class day program. 
Malcolm said.
atives in order that each survey Nepal, Laos, India, and South return to the United States. 
(continued on page 2) 
"I want to tell you about a

(continued on page 3) Viet Nam. Mr. uated But Mr. Dooley said that man who used the weapon of Albert Schweitzer encouraged love to conquer people's hearts. Tom with the words: "The signi­
Tom Dooley proved that the ficance of a man lies not in what most powerful thing a man can he has accomplished; the signi­do is to be gentle and to be ficance of a man lies in what he interested in others," Mr. hongs to attain." Dooley continued. Dr. Dooley returned home 
Malcolm said that the future but only to solicit money and of America is dependent upon volunteers to help him with his how well it knows the other work. He was successful and person. The U.S. is one of the soon returned to South-east Asia newest countries in the world with greater zeal and optimism. 
and yet it is the world's leading M<Jicolm said th<Jt a reporter 
power. Still there is much this once asked his brother what he 
country doesn't know about the <Jnd his helpers received in return 
rest of the world. Too many of for their work. us are strangers to each other," "Fella, my teams and I -we Mr. Dooley said. get plenty," the young doctor 
Malcolm said that his replied. First, we have that brother knew that we must ex­wonderful feeling that comes press ourselves abroad --that we when engaged in the service of must reach out beyond our­others and in an act pleasing t9 selves, our customms, our cam­God. Second, we're helping to pus. bring into reality Ann Frank's 
Dr. Dooley first went to dream that things will change, player." Southeast Asia as an intern in (continued on page 3) 

PAGE 2 
7118 

Candidates given petitions 
rather that it represented just petition and when asked for a
by Greg Pudhorodsky 
students that saw no need for comment said that at the current 
"I do hereby nominate ( ) 
student government as a result time "had no program, no plat­for the office of Student Body 
of it's effect on them. form, and was not a candidate." 
President and ( ) for the Dave Krashna said that his He continued that no further 
office of Student Body Vice­
decision to run came a week ago decision would be made on the President." 
when he finished consideration matter until he had decided 
By 5:00 o'clock tomorrow of what value his candidacy "as "who was right."several hundred Notre Dame stu­a person would mean to the dents will put their signatures to 
individual" in the Notre Dame Rory Barutt along with John the above statement and initiate community. He followed this Conway picked up a petition
the campaigns for the 1970-71 line of reasoning in his consi­and will vie for the two topStudent Body President. 
deration of the campaign, as he spots. Since they came later in Nominations began at 7:00 wished that it would "evaluate the evening it was not possibleo'clock last night with the distri­
the atmosphere here to test how to get a comment on their candi­bution of petitions in the Stu­
conducive it was to the students dacies. dent Government office. In existence as an individual." He McKenna siad that the peti­order to gain consideration for 
said that he felt that the current tions will be available at the the office a candidate must col­environment was a, "rigid, 
student government office 

lect one hundred student names asocial. and hostile one." 
throughout today and tomor­

on the petition. 
Pete Peterson also came for a row. 
The scene last night was a casual one with current Student Body President, Phil McKenna, 
Plan Thrasher drive
distributing the petiton forms 
(continued from page 1) Hunter remarked that the
along with elections rules to the 
Thrasher campaign would place

prospective candidates. On hand ing conditions, conditions which 
no reliance on any group or

at the appointed hour were the Hunter termed as "neglected in 
power structure,. and would not

two previously announced candi­the past." 
seek either the official or unof­

dates Stay Senator Tom Hunter additionally revealed 
ficial support of the Student 
1

Thrasher and Dave Krashna. that the Thrasher campaign has 
Body President or the Student

Both stated those things which contacted Bob Pohl, campaign Janet Hollander and Ann Sullivan perform for the SophomoreUnion Director.
they believed important which manager for candidate Dave 
Parents Weekend. In the skit, an incoming SMC girl goes to a fortune lie in the upcoming campaign. Krashna, and offered to discuss teller who predicts her four years at SMC. 
Thrasher argued that, win or the issues during the course of lose, he hoped that the next the campaign. week of campaigning would at 
Changegraduationweekend
'In concluding, Hunter emeha­least begin, "to bring student sized that Thrasher and Murraygovernment back from those 
would primarily conduct a com­(continued from page 1) 
more than just another open going to a scholarship fund. Awho currently would have it pletely student-oriented, grass­Plans are also in the making house," Crawford said. second idea was to incorporateannihilated.'. He went on to roots campaign designed to see for a change in the weekend An idea was. raised to change the use of paper caps and gowns explain that this feeling repre­as many students as possible. activities that lead up to gradua­the attire worn at graduation. which could be purchased for
sented no one faction hr hall but tion. Two stuqents, Don Graham and about $3 The remaining $7 "In the past this has been like senior class vice-president John could go towards a scholarship
OBSERVER BUFFS 
another Junior Parents Weekend; Gallagher, came up with the idea fund. While neither of thesf: this year· we are going to try to of dispensing with the caps and plans are definite, the donation
-We Need Your Help 
change that. We want it to be gowns, with the $10 rental fee of the money would be on a
THE VBSER VER is in the process of completing its 
voluntary basis.
ftles and finds that it is missing some back issues. We 
Last year's exercise was

Dooley Foundation to
would like to compile complete sets of Observers so 
threatened by an organized dem­
we can have a permanent record of our history here 
onstration. It was planned that in the office. We need the following. Can you help? 
the students w.ould wear white
conduct drive for Asia 
armbands and plant white Under the chairmansh~p of Since the Foundation itself is crosses symbolic of their dass­
Volume I 1966-67 
N0.5 NO. 50 (March) Notre Dame freshman Dennis non-profit, non-governmental, mates' possible deaths in Viet­
N0.6 NO. 54 '?. 
Wall, the campus chapter of the non-secretarian volunteer organ­nam. Only a few students wore
N0.10 NO. 59 " 
Tom Dooley Foundation will ization, its success is dependent arm bands. Crawford said thatNO. 12 (if we printed that NO. 67 (April) 
conduct a Fund Drive from upon contributions. he expected a similar demonstra­far) through the end of the NO. 68 (April) 
March2 through March 8 to ben­The campus Fund Drive tion this year. efit the sick and dying in South­stretches from March 2-8, con­
Year. NO. 78 (MAY\ 
"There won't be a total dem­east Asia. centrating on three halls each onstration forced on every stu­
Volume II 19(J]-68 NO. 79 (May 
The Foundation, night. Contributions will be ac­dent. If there is any such dis­
NO. 1-21 (all of Sept. and Oct.) 
founded in 1961, by Dr. Tom cepted in the dining,.halls on play, it will be done on an
Dooley's mother, brother, and March 8. 
NO. 26 (NOV.) Volume Ill 1968-69 
individual student basis like last
colleagues, basically strives to

NO. 29 (DEC.) 
year," he commented.
emulate the work of Dr. Dooley 

NO. 30 (DEC.) 
Wall also noted that Saint While some of the plans me'n­
by offering assistance on a seIf--.
NO. 31-35 (JAN.) NO. 29 (OCT.) 
· Mary's will conduct a separate tioned above have not been com-
help, human-to-human bas1s. collectiOn aunng me same .
NO. 39 (FEB.) NO. 62 (Dec.) 
Membership of the Found-. d f t' pletely dectded upon, any sug­
peno o tme. · il b 1 • d
NO. 43 .. " NO. 83 (Feb) 
ation is provided by, volunteers, Wall stated that the F d--gestlons w l ~ we come . NO. 44 " NO. 75 (FEB. 19) 
including doctors, nurses, X-ray t' . . oun "If any semors would care to technicians, and airline steward-a 10~ ts ?ot demand~ng _fun~s, offer any ideas or make sugges-
NO. 45 " NO. 106 (March 
b_ut 1s afskmg for contn, buttons m tt'ons that they feel could 1·m­
esses doubling as nurses' aids and D
NO. 46 " NO. 125 (April) 
teachers. ~ew ~ h Nr. D~oley s connect-prove this year's commencement ~--------------------------------------------------L------------------------------lo_n_s_w_t_t___o_t_r_e__a_m_e_. -, ceremony in any way, they 
should feel free to do so," Craw­ford stated. "All they have to do is to get in touch either with me
SENIOR CLASS FELLOW RUNOFF 
or any of the class officers. We would greatly appreciate any suggestions that could be of­fered."
-LEONARD BERNSTEIN ­-ARTHURJ.GOLDBURG­
TO OUR .. ALLARD LOWENSTEIN ­
ADVERTISERS: 

Deadlines for display ad­vertising is. 48 hours prior to the date of publica­tion.
VOTING -MONDAY, MARCH 2 
Copy may be brought in any time up to 2:30 the day
DINING HALLS -EVENING MEAL 
before publication.
HUDDLE -IIA.M. -I P.M. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except
O.C. OFFICE IP.M. -SP.M. 
vacations by students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions rnay be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. second class postage 
paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
(SENIORS ONLY) 



MONDAY, MARCH 1970 7118 
Bright NSA future seen 
by Tjm Treanor selves." basic point-we have a long way 
Since their ties with tbe Central Intelligence Agency were exposed, the National Student Association has been reduced to an impotent echo chamber for the new left. Or has it? To find out, Observer reporter T.C. Treanor interviewed NSA head Mike Shaughnessy, and several campus notables. In this, the first of two installments, Shaughnessy talks about the nature and the direction of the National Student Association. 
The NSA files are much like Mike Shaughnessy himself­informal, perceptive and deep. They contain a chronology of the NSA past the CIA fiasco; a mottled collage of uprisings, attacks, counterattacks, and spinoff groups. But through it all, the NSA endures, and, if Mike Shaughnessy is to be be­lieved, will endure for a long time. 
"The NSA is more able to make constructive change than radical groups," Shaughnessy contended, "Anti-NSA literature says that the NSA's membership ha~ decreased since 1967, but in fact shortly after the CIA thing came out, three colleges left the NSA and about twenty-one joined." 
The anti-NSA literature that 
Shaughnessy referred to was put 
out by STOP-NSA, an organiza­
tion closely alligned with the 
conservative Young Americans 
for Freedom. It charges the NSA 
with mindlessly following the 
lead of radical groups. 
Shaughnessy doesn't see the situation in that light. "The National Student Association is going to depend totally on student governments across the country," he argues. "NS A policy isn't generated by the SDS, or any little group of devious politicos. It's generated by the constituent parts of its organization-the student gov­ernment representatives them-
Better communication 
(continued from page 1) 
can be completed as rapidly as possible. The-coordinating com­mittee welcomes proposed sur­vey topics from any person or group that feels they have an issue of current importance that previously has been merely spec­ulated upon. 
The organizers of the service believe that improved cornmun_i­cations between the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community will be achieved through this service if the cooperation of the stu dents can be maintained. 
Don Driscoll, a senior socio­logy major who helped form the Student Survey Service, said, "It is intended that the Student Survey Service become a per­manent resource for all segments of our community. The results of each particular study will be maintained in order that a de­gree of continuity may be pro­cured. It is intended that student abilities be both measured and recorded so that the degree of change over time or as a result of particular occurences can also be obtained. It is hoped that the results may also provide valuable information to the students, fac­ulty and administrators who in particular are obliged to consider and respond to the needs and desires of our evolving communi­ty." 
Persons interested in further information should contact Gary Gereffi at 283-8037 or Don Dris­coll at 283-1693, 
Shaughnessy doesn't see the NSA as a political organization, though. Rather, he visualizes it as "a couple thousand people from all parts of the country getting together and discussing issues pertinent to them." According to Shaughnessy, the NSA's prime function is that of an informational repository, a "voluntary library" of student government experiences. 
Shaughnessy is in a position to know. He was elected last summer to the National Super­visory Board as one of three midwest (Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky) representatives. As a representative, he has a complete file of NSA records at his finger­tips. 
"It's a student government organization," he says, "and it's got about five hundred member schools. The advantages it has for students are tremendous. Financially, it's gotten student reductions in food, posters, clothings, travel-a whole series of things." 
Before the CIA thing, we used to get grants and put them into the treasury, where we could use them at will. Some of our projects suffered financially; some of them went into debt. Now, grants are designated to specific programs." 
"Some of the big schools­Harvard, for example-have left us because they don't think we have anything for them any­more. As a result, the NSA is moving to the right on a lot of things." According to Shaugh­nessy, Catholic Women's colleges fill a large portion of the NSA. 
Notre Dame's NSA represen­tative makes little secret of his desire that Notre Dame remain in the NSA. 
"I see every reason in the world for Notre Dame to stay in the NSA-academic, social­every reason. We are only at a to go to give students a role in the University's legislative pro­cess. The information we receive cannot but be of aid to progress in those areas." 
"We have not reached the point at which NSA won't help us any more. I'm not sure if we ever could reach that point. We'll always be able to learn from the failures of other col­leges." 
10 

Tomorrow-Observer reporter Treanor will interview Student JBody President Phil McKenna,, Vice-president Deitrich, Young Americans for Freedom head 


Tom Murphy, and others about Sue Dom and Priscilla Louris in the SMC skit "I hope I meet a the NSA. football player." She does. 
Krashna to emphasize openness 
~o~n~ ~~~}m u m~t ~~.~~,i 0 n irt~!,~.P.o~p!lit~
think our aim is to bring govern-"Government can give assis­ment down to its lowest com-tance to individuals developing mon denominator. their own life styles, but it can­
1n their joint statement not give answers. The major announcing their candidacy failings of pa~t student govern-Krashna and Winings outlined ments has been the inability to the basis of their platform. "The realize that even assistance worth of any community is cannot be given without contact determined by its success or and meaningful dialogue with 
those it represents.
failure in providing an atmo­Krashna's campaign is being

sphere for the positive develop-managed by Bob Pohl and his. Hall. ment of the individual. To 
achieve this atmosphere is the 

Dooley challenges America 
concern of all the University; the 
interpretation of the individual's 

rcontmued from page 1) 
Hesburgh about his ailment and plementation of methods to men _will become good, and we satisfy these ·needs are the will know order and peace once 
primary functions of govern­more. 
ment. But just this recognition is Dr. Dooley was soon afflicted 
not enough in itself; and this is with cancer but not before his 
why Mark and I, in announcing project in Southeast Asia was our candidacy for SBP-SBVP well off the ground and could wish to stress the primacy of function efficiently in his the individual o~er the institu­absence. tion, for the latter is valid only On December 2, 1960 as Tom in the sense that it contributes lJooley lay bed ridden in a Hong directly and meaningfully Kong hospital, he wrote Father toward~ former's develop-how he longed lo return "to needs and the subsequent im­
APPLICATIONS ARE NOW BEING TAKEN FOR THE 
POSITION OF EDITOR OF THE OBSERVER 
THE POSITION IS OPEN TO ANY STUDENT 
OF NOTRE DAME OR ST. MARY'S 
APPLICATION MAY BE MADE BY SUBMITTING A STATEMENT OF INTENT TO 
THE BOP.RD OF DIRECTORS 
c/o ·Gaetano M. De Sapio, Editor-in-Chief THE OBSERVER 
Box 11 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
The statement sh ou/d contain a resume ofqualifications 
as well as a statement of the applicants concepts of the role 
and direction of THH OBSER VHR. 
Applications must be filed by March 4. The applicant will be required to meet with the Board fur a personal interview. 
Announcement vf appointment and acceptance will be made on Friday, March /3. TI-lt: OBSERVER'S last publication date under the present editor will be Wed­nesday, March 25. Publication of THE OBSERVER will resume under the new editor on April 7. 
include a general letter to be 
sent to all students as an intro­
duction to the purposes of the 
candidacy and at least two posi­tion papers. Both Krashna and Winings plan on making several visits to each hall, door to door in marry cases. A center of operations for the Krashna-Winings ticket has been estab­lished in the basement of Farley 
Notre Dame's Grotto once more before he died. The letter was later reproduced on stainless steel and permanently placed at the grotto.. 
Forty-two days later he died at New York City's Memorial Hospital, a day after his 34th birthday. Malcolm said that he found among his brother's possessions a three-by-five card which reeked of Southeast Asian mildew and contained a quote from Pope St. Gregory: "He that has talent let him hide it not..." 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Guy DeSapio 
The last word 
It is not often that a journalist takes pen in hand to comment on the activities of a fellow member of the fifth estate. Politicians never seem to hesitate to comment on the actions or" their fellows. Their opponent is always fair game. But journalists seem to be of another breed. They seem afraid to criticize in writing because they understand the power of the printed word and so fear to set off a genocidal tendency among their own species. Of course there are people like an Art Buchwald who are willing to suggest things on the sly about fellow writers; but then again he created a characature and didn't go after his opponent by name. 
I myself would hate to start a precedent, but I feel that there is something that should be said-for the sake of what I construe to be the obligation of publications in general. In these times when the media is the message it is obvious that any type of publication Plans a large role in the way that people think, and so, act and react. It is the press that can lead soc~ety, or a community if you wish, to higher plateaus of accomplishment. It is the press ~h1ch can make people stop and think --or indeed could make people stop everything. If 1t we~e~'t ~or t_he printed word there couldn't be a mass movement to save the starving and dteillg ill Btafra or a smaller movement to raise Toys for Tots in the nation's hospitals at Christmas time. There could be no mass Chicago 7 support demonstrators nor even an app~al to the Silent Majority. 
Of course all this power places a tremendous amount of responsibility on the shoylders of the people who weild it -if that doesn't sound too much like Spiro Agnew. Where the Vice-President and I differ is in what the nature of that responsibility should be. Agnew cares about what the press weilds its power for. I care only (in a professional sense) that the press weild its power FOR SOMETHING and not FOR NOTHING. 
Now that last statement might seem like an acute exercise in semantics but I didn't intend it to be so. As far as the press is concerned I have no professional qualms with it as long as it stands for something--be that something conservatism, liberalism, or what have you. But once professional press starts opting for nihilism I'll argue against it with all my effort. 
Once the press stops pushing, society will shrivel up as will progress along with it. When the press' progressive spirit dies, the spirit of the people that it serves will die too. It is for that reason that I am disappointed in my fellow editor one flight up --he wrote an obituary on Friday when he should have outlined a direction. The worse part about it is that he wrote it about something that is still living. 
Rich Moran looked at America and noted the ailments that come with old age. By the time one reaches the age of 194 he has made a lot of mistakes. Quite possibly innocence is gone -there is a lot to be ashamed of. But no individual's life is totally despicable. There is a lot to take pride in. It is the way the individual reacts to his mistakes that counts. Does he learn from them? Does he attempt to overcome his shortcomings and pull himself to higher levels? 
Moran's comments noted the wrinkles in America's skin, how it had been scared by abuse and neglect·-another sign of age. It was easy to note the way the dirt of years of toil have combined. with the sweat of persistent struggling to clog America's pores with a" decrepit and polluted look. Then he seemed to mirror an attitude that many Americans seem to hold about old people. When they grow old and are no longer productive they are written off, sent off to old age homes to retire, their children waiting in most instances for the day they kickoff. 
If there is one thing that this old nag America has stood for during its long life, it is hope. _There was always hope in Americans' hearts and· an American ideal engendered hope ill the hearts o( people around the world. I don't believe that hope should be written off so easily. America has made many mistakes. Maybe because of them, the word America doesn't mean hope any longer to a lot of people around the world. If so, then this is the time when the word hope should mean the most for America itself. We have to look beyond our shortcomings -rise above our failings -push ahead and not wallow co_ntent in old age ready to die. We can't sit back and "weep helplessly as. it (America) collapses." There is a lot left in its spirit that young Americans have to draw on. It is that feeling that the American press must draw out. To become a prophet of doom is to admit your own failure. 
Business Mgr.: Bruce Reick  
Ad. Mgr.: Bruce Barker News Editor: Glen Corso Asst. News Editor: T. C. Trea­nor SMC News Editor: Prue Wear  Photography Editor: Mike Mur­phy Night Editor: Dave Lammers Layout: Jan Reimer, Marilyn Becker  The opinions expressed in the editorials, news analyses, and columns of The Observer are sole­ly those of the authors and edi­tors of The Observer and do not  
Associate Editors: Cliff Win­trade, Ann Conway, Jeanne Sweeney Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Feature Editor: Dave Stauffer  Headlines: Jane Reimer, Rick Smith Ad Layout: Steve Dollinger Night Controller: Scott "fin­gers" Braley  necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administra­tions, faculty, or student bodies.  

---~ 


Dave Lammers 
On bra burning 
A modest silence is a woman s crown. -Sophocles 
Women's Liberation is having a tough time getting off the ground here, and I think its a damn shame. Part of the trouble is that we have left it up to the girls to organize the movement. In fact, a lot of men have denounced women's liberation as being opposed to femininity, motherhood, and gentleness, while the women consider women's liberation as war against men, against the old fashioned subservient view of women, and the placing of women in second-class jobs by the men that control America. · 
The conflict is, the result of the total ignorance of the men. We just don't know what's in it for us; if we did, we'd be all for it. 
Consider the case at the University of Dayton, where women's lib is really big. The girls ask guys out for dates and pay for it, and girls refuse to let a guy open a door or help them out of (or into) their coats. 
Taking their cue from the black liberation movement, the Dayton girls wear buttons with a clenched fist. The girl behind the movement at that university recently gave a speech. The hall was jammed, and after the inflammations were over some males tried to ask questions. Ala Leroi Jones, the liberated woman refused to recogniz~ the men, and forced them to have a girl in the audience ask the questions for them. . 
The real clincher is that the men are encouraged to tell girls off in. the same way that a normal male tells another male off. The Smdent Body President at Dayton goes around telling girls to get this-l!d and get that~d, (only he uses the real word). According to my sources, the girls love it. 
Now before Kathy Cecil and other liberated women accuse me of 
purposeful gross distortions and demolish The Observer office let 
me admit that I know little or nothing about Women's Liberation. 
Oh, I saw the picture in Time of a woman flinging her liberated bra 
into the bonfire, and I think I understand why girls dislike being mampulated by the ad men on Madison Avenue . . P~rhaps more intricate analyses of this issue are required to get a gul mvolved, btH for the men, the advantages are obvious. Can you imagine the thrill of having a St. Mary's girl call up and say "Hey, I sat _behind you on the shuttle this morning and I just 
happened to notlc~ your name on the laundry tag of you left sock, and I wondered tf maybe you wanted to go out to dinner or something? Strictly on me, of course." 
What true Notre Dame man would object to calling a girl names out loud? And if it was part of a movement, so much the better! 
The possibilities are infinite. Instead of the traditional spring 
paq' raid, why not have a bra burning over here on our campus? In 
the Huddle, the girls could paint out the Neanderthal man mural and 
replace it with pictures of some liberated women doing whatever 
they do. The Convo, the Rock, and the Burke Memorial Golf Course 
are all prime targets for liberation, not to mention the Dinin!~ Halls. 
We could have a Student Body President candidate running on the 
grass roots issue of women's lib. 
But like I said, I'm afraid it's up to the guys to get the thing going. 
I'd hate to see a beautiful spring go to pot. 
MONDAY, MARCH 2, 1970 711E OBSERriER. 
PAGE 5 

Dreams: Like watching a birth 
by John Yurko 
Dreams: Before 
Barry Rogers (trombone): Hey, Doug, I'd like you to meet my cousin, who's m-f'ing musician. 
Doug Lubahn (bass): Yeah, how do y'do'! You from around here? 
Cousin (elfish, wire-rimmed, with four ltarps in his coat pockets,-a Minolta, and a Norelco cassette r~corder, smiling his teeth off): Yeah, well, yeah, I'm doin' a thing in Elkart, sorta. 
Lubahn: Yeah? 
Silence. Cousin goes away. Mike Breck­er bounces short runs off the mens' room door. 
Lubahn (as equipment gnomes test mikes): Man, this place has no sound at all. Bounce, bounce, bounce, look out, there goes a B-flat, whooshhhhh! 
Jeff Kent (guitar, organ, vocals): Doug, hey, I made a chord change in Celestial. ..I'm gonna hold D-minor at the "sun­shine" part, it's better, you know, don't worry, okay? 
Stomping around back stage. Look at the small crowd clustered in front, the smoke running to the ceiling. Nerves. 
Everybody: Let's go, let's go, what are they waiting for, etc. 
"Ladies and gentlemen ... Dreams ... etc" 
In reviews, there are two ways of approaching the problem, the first being an extension of the old Tiger Beat syndrome of breathless hypes and sex set-ups ("Win one of Keith's grooviest ascots!!!") that translates musically into "They played this song and it was fast and good and then they played this hit and it was not so fast and not so good," and so on in to history. The second approach entails trying to tell what the 

Stockade confinement is 
challenged by petition 
by Chris Cicconi 
A nationwide petition by the Richard Chase Defense Committee, is currently being circulated at Notre Dame. It is an attempt to get Richard Chase released from a U.S. Army stockade, and to improve the "inhuman stockade con­ditions." 
Richard Chase is an Army private at Fort llood, Texas. On December 20, I<169, he was convicted for refusing to participate in riot control training. He was given a dishonorable discharge and sentenced to two years at hard labor. The Federal District Court has dismissed the case, but there is an appeal pending in the Federal Circuit Court. Chase's lawyers, have declared an intention to pursue the case to the Supreme Court if ne.cessary. They also plan to present the case before the Military Board of Review. 
However, the Defense Committee feels that the efforts of Chase's lawyers are not enough. They are appealing for public support, since they consider this an issue affecting every American's basic rights. The committee states that "it is through the use of riot control that Gis are used to suppress people fighting for basic human rights just as they are used for that same purpose in Vietnam". 
The Chase supporters claim that GJ 's are used as a deterrent to Blacks, stu­dents, and those in opposition to the waf' in Vietnam. Port Hood troops were used in Chicago in 1968 after Martin Luther Kmg's assasination and during the Demo­cratic National Convention. According to the Defense Committee's circulated state­ment, "as more and more people become angered with the direction in which the 
U.S. is heading, Gls will be used more and more to suppress them". 
Chase stated that he refused to take part in any activities that would be used to "crush movements that he suuported". Three months before his courtmartial, Chase became involved in anti-Vietnam War and enlisted men's rights movements. He also wrote for the Fatigue Press, the Fortllood underground paper. 
Chase's supporters state two reasons why charges should be dropped against him. First, they claim that the Uniform Code of Military Justice---which only requires a two-thirds majority for convic­tion---is a "mockery of justice". Second, the defense was denied permis­sion to subpoena witnesses to testify about riot control. Included in this list of witnesses denied by Lt. Col. Hagen were Rennie Davis and Bobby Seale. 
An investigation is also being demand­ed of Chase's pre-trial confinement. He was placed in solitary confinement for thirty-one days, and reportedly was in­flicted with four beatings during this period. 
The Richard Chase Defence Committee hopes to amass widespread support. They urge all interested students and faculty 
members  to  sign  the  petition,  write  to  
their  Senator  or  Congressman,  and  to  
form a local committee.  


A vante garde meets tradition 
god, red, nude, america, auto, manic, 
clock, space hate, cross hatch, furious 
revolt, pot, finger, sunshine, slow, love, 
kennedy, knock out, room 

group is, not what the group is about. ln other words, the difference between Hair and Uberation: A Rock Cantata. 
Dreams is to Blood, Sweat, and Tears as Liberation is to Hair. The first set­tight, too tight. No talk from the stage for about a half-hour. Lubahn is the keystone, and he is worried. He is either smiling and nodding or frowning at Kent, Cobham, and the horns. Most of the first set is frowns. The horns are playing, but they are still working long car rides and Whoppers out of their systems. Only Cobham and Kent are sweating. 
Even playing with miscellaneous per­cussion to turn the band around doesn't work. As the end nears, Cobham talks­about football. Disaster. He talks about Valpo-laughter. This song and they cook for a while, and then drum solo. Long, but the comparison with Baker (the necessary mark of rock drum compar­ison) ends there. Not that Cobham doesn't have the Baker-type ego, but technically, he is a superior rock drum­mer. You don't play for James and the Flames and Sam and Dave for three years and not understand the beat, even if it·is 6/4. He can cook, and Baker can't. During his solo, then, the principle was to show that It's got a beat, and you can dance to it, even though the time is 
somewhere off in jazz-land. There are cheers and much applause, and the band goes off smiling. "We'll be back!" Yeah. 
Dreams: Between 
Randy Brecker (trumpet): Yeah, my album on Solid State. No promotion, at all. It got so bad, like one day, they wanted me to record Theme from Mid­night Cowboy and the Theme from Popi, or Pepi, something. I made my album commercial, I thought, but they wanted this. Anyway, they set up a date and told me I had two days to record. I didn't show, and they cancelled the contract ... well, we haven't signed yet, our manage­ment is holding out for quite a bit, and we're just playing these weekend things, and making enough to get us through the week practicing in New York. We need some more time to really get together, y'know? 
Lubahn (left-handed bass): We spent just about all day hunting for a left handed bass. "I got one." A Fender Precision? "Yeah, right." Well, at least I found this thing. 
The Breckers are alumni of the Colle­giate 1azz Festival. Both remember. 
Dreams: Back. 

They get applause as they come on stage. They showed more in the first set than any "unknown" group has a right to show, but there is the bad taste of B, S, and T, and the crowd wants more. They get it. 
In the long piece, "Sweetheart Suite," Lubahn no longer directs. He concen­trates on playing. The horns are miked better, and they can hear themselves for 
the first time, so the harmonies are heard 
for the first time. And here is where the 
real power comes. 
In any group, the only one capable of 
leading naturally is the drummer. Cob­
ham comes through. In the piece, as it 
builds and builds, Cobham makes his 
breaks turn that band around, little by 
little, phrase after phrase, until imposed 
tightness falls away and an organic, nat­
ural, beautiful understanding of the music 
takes its place. The ultimate meaning of 
the cliche of "together." 
Only the best bands have it, the Dead, 
Miles, Chicago, to a certain extent. 
Dreams showed it Saturday night. Mike 
Brecker and Billy Cobham taking the 
band where a band, even of battle-scarred 
veterans, of only four months, has no 
right to go. 
A stoned high-schooler in the front 
row has had his mouth wide open for five 
minutes, while somebody else is shaking 
his hair in time. Everywhere the feet are 
moving, heads are bobbing. If it wasn't 
Notre Dame, there would have been 
dancing. Brecker's sax solo should be too 
long, but it is not, for with each bar, 
there is a hint of something new, some­
thing that is developed, easily, gradually, 
until it hits you that you haven't under­
stood it until now, but, man, you sure do 
understand now. 
The band comes back in and lets it 
come down, down, down, throwing in 
another drum solo that made me think 
they wanted to say "Yeah, we're good, 
but not that good ... yet. Just w<.~it." I· 
will. The end. Standing ovation. Encore. 
An embarrassment. They had played 
all the songs they knew. So they did a 
fast repeat and gave Jeff Kent his chance 
to solo on' the organ, to demonstrate 
obviously to those who hadn't been 
listening closely, what he had been doing 
all night, working with Lubahn to draw 
out rhythmic lines that first provided 
strong foundations for the strong (That's 
an understatement) solos of the horns, 
and, all by themselves, developed embel­
lishments on those lines that were beauti­
fully interesting and at the same time did 
nnt work against the main solo lines of 
the horns. 

.!(ent's organ, in other words, was subtle like Booker T.'s, not over-powering like Kooper's. You had to listen, but it sure was there. So was everybody else. Best concert here all year, you know. 
Randy (B, S, and T alumni): Yeah, that was one of our best sets so far. Sure would like to come back, y'know .. . "Ellis isn't coming to CJ Pas a judge" .. . "His band was ruined by Kooper" .. . yeah, I can see that. 
For once, an embryonic growth appeared at Notre Dame, instead of slick still-born millionaires. A band that is still moving, still finding, still imprvving, it's like watching a birth from the delivery room..Dreams delivers. 
"Erotica" by Beth Malsheimer is one of 300 hanging pieces at the Fieldhouse. 
PAGE 6 711E OBSERJIER MONDAY, MARCH 2 1970 
President of and for tile University 
The Chance Ilor -President system 
This is the fourth in a six part series in which members of the Nutting for President Committee expound their views on why they feel changes should be made in the existing structure of the university. -ed. 
Chancellor-President Structure: How it should work 
For this reason students and faculty have proposed changing the system into a Chancellor-President structure, thus giving the internal affairs of the university the equal representation and attention they deserve. The problem is not that Father Hesburgh has outlived his usefulness, but that his responsibili­ties as he sees them no longer corres­pond to the job of the university president-namely, the supervision and progress of the internal affairs of the campus itself. The Chancellor-Presi­dent system has proven effective in other univerisities where it (under that name and others) has been tried. Of course there are disadvantages in any administrative novelty. The most pop­ular complaint is that the duties of each officer are not clearly defined. The office of the President, thus con­
ceived, overlaps into the realm of what is now the concern of the Dean of Students or some Vice-President for the campus. At Indiana University, which has one general Chancellor and a president for each extension, the faculty complains of duplication in administrative red tape and functjons. And there is always the danger that a president selected or nominated by the Chancellor or the Chairman of the Board of Trustees will be only a mouthpiece for those who put him in office. 
Other universities have established the office of Ombudsman (literally, "grievance man") to integrate all the university services of internal affairs, but usually only with power to investi­gate and recommend in matters of student and campus policy. At schools like Berkeley, the Ombudsman has jurisdiction only to settle academic complaints, but in many of the other 20-some schools which have Ombuds­men his powers have _grown from approximately equal to the Dean of Students to a much larger and dyna­mic office. At San Jose State the Ombudsman is appointed by the Presi­dent and is responsible to him, but in other schools (Michigan State, for in­stance) his office is independent of the president and hence not subject to the president's will. His objectives are to hear individual grievances and·'suggest­ions and to detect patterns of com­plaints and possibilities in both acade­mic and non-academic areas. His realm does not extend into community poli­tics, fund-rl!ising, or public relations. 

Internal President 
In most instances, the office of the Ombudsman unfortunately does not have power to initiate changes or innovations but merely to suggest them. The situation at Notre Dame demands, however, initiation of an office to deal with internal affairs exclusively-in contact with the cam­pus and with power enough to respond to immediate camp!ls needs. The President, with powers and responsibil­ities limited enough for one man's energies but large enough to remain integral, would be elected by a tri-part­ite committee (at last, something for 
the University Forum to do!) and would be subject only to the Board of Trustees. His jurisdiction would be the internal affairs of the university, and he would presumably be liberated from external demands. The Chancell­or, not superior in authority to the President but freed from the responsi­bilities of running the university, could devote his time to the external de­mands now made on Father Hesburgh -the responsibilities of representing the university to the alumni and to the national boards and committees which 
now usurp over half of our President's time. 
Notre Dame needs a President of and for the university, with an orienta­tion towards her obvious internal needs and potentials. Within the pre­sent structure, too many demands on the person of the President make it impossible for him to fulfill that rune­tion, no matter how diligently he may try late at night. Differing sets of responsibilities for one man have re-suited in a schizophrenic office: "!'ecole, c'est moi." It is time that we dictated the role of the President, and that we in the university are represent­ed and consulted as we deserve. This can happen through the new definition 
of the office of the president and the establishment of a Chancellor-Presi­dent system, splitting the present auth­ority of the one President into two offices according to the already-exist­ing split between the internal and external functions of the university. Thus defined, the jobs could be ade­quately handled by two men, instead of half accomplished by one overwork­ed President. 
Poetry, mUSIC, dance offered 1n 'mixed bag' 
by Dan O'Donnell 
"Festival Mixed Bag," the University Arts Council's festival of student art work offers poetry, music and dance on today's bill. 
Two different poetry readings at 8 and I 0 display a wide range of style that includes everything from concretism to a modern 
epic. The next feature, at 8:45, will be a lecture and performance of 
FINAL FINAL TICKET SALES JUNIOR PARENTS 
-SON WEEKEND TUES, MARCH 3 WED. MARCH 4 
6:30-9:30; BLUE-GOLD ROOM, 
LaFortune 

Tickets for: 
-PRESIDENTIAL. DINNER -COMMUNION BREAKFAST -SATURDAY LUNCHEON 
Also: "Fifth Dimension" Concert Tickets 
original music by Professor Nonte Floyd, composer and member of the SMC music department. Mr. Floyd will disucss his own stylistic develop­ment, focusing on four of his works: a Piano Quintet (piano and string quartet), written in 1964, a Piano Quartet ( 1966), a theme and Variations for Or­chestra (1966), and his most recent work, a Concerto for Two Pianos and Orchestra ( 1969-70). Mr. Floyd's discussion will draw on the works of European composers Bartok and Hinde­meth and the americans Ives and Carter, and discuss their influence on his growth as an artist. 
Prof. Floyd comes from a highly musical family. He began composing on his own at age 6, and to date has written over 400 works. He has played with both orchestra groups and stage bands. After earning his B.A. from Oklahoma City University, where he won their composition competition four times, he received his M.A. from the Uni­versity of Oklahoma. He is cur­rently a Ph.D candidate at the Eastman School of Music. Some of his more prominent works have been performed by the Oklahoma City, Buffalo, East­man-Rochester, and Baltimore Symphony Orchestras. 
This is Prof. Floyd's second year at St. Mary's. He teaches the courses in composition, contemporary music; conducting and arranging, and music theory. 
The final two events on Monday night will focus on modern dance. Judy DeVleigher will present two numbers, one from "West Side Story," the other from "Cabaret." Miss DeVleigher, an SMC senior, has background in ballet and mod­ern jazz, and has danced in several musicals. 
Anton Balcomb, a graduate student in Art, will dance in a contrasting free-style form. His numbers are described as "inter­pretive dances with flute accom­paniment." They are a series of delicate, almost improvisational interpretation of recorder music, emphasizing the closeness and spontaneous flow between the artist and his music. 
Tuesday's presentation is en­titled "Firewater with Words" and highlights four student pro­ductions. 
Meagon Te~ 1's off-Broadway play, ·"Keep tightly Closed in a Cool, Dry Place," opens the festivaties at 8 pm. Warren Bowles has coordinated the Notre Dame production. This will be followed at 9: 15 by excerpts from Murray Schisgal's existential farce, "Luv," pre­sen ted by Michael Kelly, George Moore and Larry Russick. The players characterize the play as "one that raises all the time­worn questions and answers them for good." 
A group of former Anger students wilr pr~sent, in French, 

~A~N~Y~O~N~E~IN~T~E~R~ES~T~E~D~I~N~~~F~IO~K~...~can~ri~ 
RUNNING FOR Ssp OR SBVP MUST PICK Up A NOMINATION FORM IN THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICE. 
THE FORM MUST BE RETURNED BY SP.M. TUESDAY, MARCH 3rd. 
CAMPAIGN BEGINS 6:00P.M. TUESDAY, MARCH 3rd. 
Chauvre ("The Bald-Headed Soprano" at 9:30. This play was firstpresentedinAngers,France last year. It is a French satire on Englishcustomsandidiomsthat focuses on the difficulty of 
BLOW YOURSELF UP 
TO POSTER SIZE 
2x3 f! $4.50 
3x4 Ft. -$7.50 1'12x2 Ft.· $3.50 
Send any black and white or color p h o t o , polaroid print or magazine photo. A great Gift idea . . . A splendid _Gog . . . Ideal room decoration -.. perrect tor parties. Poster moiled in sturdy tube. Your original returned undamaaed. Add SOc for postage and handling for E'ACH Item ordered. Send Check, or M.O. (NO C.O.D.) To: PHOTO POSTER INC. dept.X 210 E. 23 St., N.Y. lOOlfJ 


communication between people. 
A presentation by the newly­formed "Experimental Theatre Group" will end Tuesday's ac­tivities. The Experimental Theatre Group", under the direction of Steve Reitz, will present "Heartbeat", written by Reitz and Rob Bartelli. The group is concemed with con­frontation and communication in acting techniques and is interested in plays like "Tom Paine", and other futuristic production. "Heartbeat" is of this genre and will try to foster audience particioation. 
Wednesday, March 4th will be Student Films Night. Two dif­ferent showings, at 8 and I0, will feature a variety of student and faculty films. More infor­mation will be forthcoming. 
The final event, on Thursday, is designated, "Encemble", and will highlight original composi­tion in folk and classical music. Patty Larkin and Chris Bach on guitar lead off at 7:00. Bach solos with his folk guitar and Miss Larkin, a freshman at St. Mary's, is in the process of having some of her works pub­lished. Mike McCool will demon· strate technique on the 12-string baroque guitar. Paul Guernsey will follow with original guitar and banjo music and will accom-· pany Ann Tiedemann in several vocal solos. 
Jeanne Gallagher, a freshman 
music major, will perform sev.. 
eral classical and pupular works 
for coronet with piano accom­
paniment. Dave Huezo, a mem­
ber of "Soft Persuasion", will 
depart from his usual solo guitar 
to render several jazz. piano 
numbers. 
The Festival will feature the 
largest showing of student art in 
the history of Notre Dame. The 
gallery features close to 300 
works including paintings, wood­
cuts, sketchings, and sculpture 
and photography. The gallery 
will be open throughout the 
entire festival from 3-5 and 7-9. 
JOBSI JOBS I and more JOBSf S"'· Gents, Teachers. Stateside and lntef· n.tlonal Jobs. Recreational _,Jobi_ Vear-round Jobs; summer JObs.. All oc;cupatlons and trades. Enjoy a v"'" 
tlon while you earn. Hurry! The jobs are taken early. Write• "Joas•, 
P.O. Box 475, Dept. CP 163-1, Lodi; Cllllf. 95240 . 

MONDAY, MARCH 2, 1970 711B OBSERJJER. 
PAGE 7 

Irish sweep CC on 3rd period rallies 
by Don Kennedy 
Observer Sports Writer 
Lefty Smith's boys swept a pair of thrillers this past week­end from the Tigers of Colorado College, coming from two goals behind on both occasions to win by scores of 6-4 and 5-4. The Irish record now stands at 19-8-l with two games left with the Air Force Academy to break the 20-win mark. 
Colorado jumped to an early lead in Friday's contest, as Dale Yutsyk took a Jerry O'Connor pass and beat Tomasoni on his glove side. Junior defenseman Paul O'Neil squared things for the Irish at 9:32 of the first period with his first goal of the season, a hard slap shot into the lower left corner. But with the Irish short a man and the de­fense doing a lackluster job of backchecking, O'Connor picked up another point with his twelfth goal. of the season to make it 2-1 at the close of the period. 
After a first period of good fundamental hocky, both tt;.ams seemed more concerned with trying to out "physical" each other. What it turned out to be, however, was a battle for possession of the penalty box, as a total of 38 minutes in viola­tions were doled out over the next forty minutes of play. Some were not satisfied with only one trip to the sin-bin. CC's Yutsyk visited on three different 
power play goal at :09 of the period, taking a pass from Kevin 
Outstanding performances byHoene and beating Schum easily. 

Phil Gustafson, Jim Hansen, and A quick wrist shot at 5:48 put Bob Habig paved the way to athe Irish up by two, but only third place finish for the Notrespectacular goaltending on the Dame wrestling team in the firstpart of Irish goalie Dick Toma­National Catholic Invitationalsoni kept Colorado from evening Wrestling Tournament held thisthe score. With Colorado pulling past weekend at John Carrolltheir goalie for the man advan­College in Cleveland, Ohio. 

tage in the waning minutes of Host school John Carroll tookthe game, Noble took a nifty top honors in the tourney,pass from defenseman Paul scoring 78 points to runner-upO'Neil, and lifted a forty-footer St. John's (Minn.) total of 71.
into the empty cage. 
Notre Dame tallied 62 points inSaturday night was almost a placing third.

video-replay of the first en­Gustafson, Hansen, and Habigcounter of the two teams. Only all starred for the Irish, winning_this night the Irish staged their individual titles in their respec­comeback late in the third tive weight classes. Gustafsonperiod. Penalties again marred captured the heavyweightthe action, as the referee handed crown, Hansen was first in theout 34 minutes in assessments to 
•

MeAu Iiffe sweep keys w1n 
When your key man is injur­ed, it seldom helps you to win the event, but the Notre Dame track team got a break this past Saturday and defeated Miami of Ohio, 77-62. 
When the word that Irish long and triple jumper Mike McMan­
non would not compete due to an injured ankle got around the visitors' Milan Tiff, he decided that the competition wasn't worth the trip and so stayed home. Watching from the side­lines, Mike said that Tiff would have easily broken Mike's own Convo record in the Triple Jump. 
With Tiff (one of the nation's best) absent, little Kevin Mc­Auliffe came up with his career best in the Triple Jump, winning with a leap of 46-9. The sopho­more from Syracuse also won the Long Jump. Mike's younger brother Tom McMannon took third in both events. 
N D's stellar middle distance man, Rich Wohlhuter, zed to wins in the 440 and 880-yard runs as Mike McCann took sec­ond in the latter event. Earlier, McCann had opened the running events by winning the Mile run in 4:12. 
The Irish hurdlers had a fine day, sweeping the 60-yard Highs (Joe Utz, Dave Stickler, Pat Mul­Jaley), and grabbinP I-' in the 
occasions, while Colorado's Rob both squads overall. Winograd and NO's Paul Regan NO's Phil Wittliff and Colo­stopped by twice. rado's Bill Baldrica traded scores 
After O'Connor's second in the first period as did Irish marker of the game made it 3-1 wing John Roselli and all­for Colorado, Kevin Hoene (on a American Bob Collyard in the power play) netted the second second. But Colorado goals by Irish goal at 14:58 of the period. 
Cliff Purpur and a power playDefenseman Mark Steinborn 
tally by Mike Bertsch put the knotted the score at three apiece 
Tigers two goals ahead with only with a slap shot that bounced 
ten minutes of action left. With 

off Colorado defenseman Bill momentum going the TigersAllen past the Tigers' bewildered way, it appeared the Irish wereDoug Schum. 
heading for a split in the series.

The third period was all Irish But a Kevin Hoene goal at 10:57(actually it was all John Noble). 
reve!~ed the tide of momentum

Noble picked up the hat-trick, and the Irish were on their way 
Paul Regan, with the Irish short a man, slid one under Schum to tie the score at four all at 13:04. Both teams settled down for six minutes of fast­paced skating, filled with oppor­tunities for both squads to break the game open with a score. But just when it seemed the game was headed for a ten-minute overtime period, defenseman O'Neil, who had an excellent series of hockey, poke checked an onrushing Tiger wing and hit John Noble with a clean pass 
giving the Irish a two-on-one break with barely fifteen se­conds left. Noble faked right and slid a perfect pass to teammate Paul Regan who skated in un­molested to best Schum in the upper left hand corner with only eleven seconds showing to give the Irish their eleventh victory in their last fourteen games. 
The Falcons of the Air Force Academy fly in for a two-game set next weekend to close out the '69-'70 edition of NO hockey. The Irish split two games with the Cadets when they met over semester break out in Colorado. 
wrapping three tallies around the one Colorado score by Jim Ahl­brecht. Noble clicked on a 
Grapplers earn third place 
6o-yard Lows (Stickler, Utz). Dash (Jack Samar, Rich Vali-NO placed _3 in the Shot Put celli) and the Two-Mile Run (Joe
1 

(Eiio Polselli, Joe Roe), Quaderer, Pat Holleran).
1000 

-yard Run (Vince Ambrico, The Irish are 2-l in indoor Kevin Robinson). the 6o-vard dual meets and travel to New York for the IC4A's next week. 
Fencers faLe three
ft  
A decisive (5-0) shutout win' by Rich Deladrier in the last match gave the Irish Fencers a hard-fought 14-13 victory over Wisconsin Saturday in the ACC. Deladrier's win, in epee, came after the Irish had squandered a 13-10 lead, and a Wisconsin charge had knotted the match at 13-13. The Sabre squad edged the Badgers 5-4 as Doug Daher  State everyone fenced once to give the Notre Dame fencing team their 15th win. Next week the team will take a break from their dtJal meet schedule to participate in the Great Lakes tournament in De­troit before concluding their schedule the following weekend in Cleveland and Buffalo.  

pinned his first two opponents 158 pound class, and Habig took and registered a 7-0 shutout vic­the title in the 150 pound divi-tory in the championship match. sian. Bob Habig, having a standout 
Gustafson, who boasts a year as a freshman, was a 7-0 record of 13-0-3 this season, victor in his first match, notched continued to dominate his a pin in the semifinal round, and opponents, easily sweeping three captured first place by winning a matches enroute to the heavy-thrilling 5-4 overtime encounter. weight title. Gustafson registered Other Irish grapplers who a pin in his opening match, a 7-2 finished among the top four in decision in the semifinal bout their weight classes were: Keith and romped to a 13-1 triumph in Giron, who finished third in the the finals. 126 pound division and fourth-
Hansen, winner of 15 of 19 place finishers Tom Ciaccio matches this year, was easily top ( 118), Ken Ryan ( 142), Bill Has­man in the 158 pound class. He brook ( 177) and Dean Olmstead 
• (190).
C1n cy blasts tankers 
The tank squad closed out its 
dual  meet  season  with  a  7-7  
record,  as  Cincinnati  defeated  
the  Irish  78-35  Saturday  at  

Rockne Memorial. 
Freshmen John Sherk and Gene Krathaus dominated NO's scoring, Sherk winning the 500 and 1000 freestyle, and Krath­aus taking first in the 50 free and placing second in the 100. Krathaus' 22.1 in the 50 was a varsity record, erasing his pre­vious 22.2, set against Kent State and Marshall Feb. 6. 
Other seconds were secured by Mike McDonough in the 200 breaststroke, Brian Short in the 200 freestyle, and Tom Gustaf­son in the 200 backstroke. 
Seniors Vince Spohn, John Cox, Nick Schiralli, and manager Bill Fahey participated in their last home meet at Notre Dame, and received pre-game recogni­tion. 
The swimming season ends this weekend at the Motor City Invitational Tourney. 
JUNIORS: Last week for Senior Portraits 
For Appointment Call: 3818 or come to 2-C LaFortune 
ALUMNI CLUB 
HAPPY HOUR 
6:30-7:30 Everyday SCHLITZ $ .15 PITCHERS $ .75 
A DIME OFF ALL MIXED DRINKS 
went 3-0. Foil also came through 5-4 led by Glen Kalin and Mike Cornwall who were 
INTERESTED IN 
both 2-1. Wisconsin took the 
same 5-4 edge in epee with only Rich Deladrier coming away 
WORKING FOR THE
with a winning slate for the Irish. The Irish had an easier time of 
OBSERVER?
it against Illinois winning 17-10 and likewise against Tri-State as they crushed the Tri-Staters 
A WORKSHOP WILL BE HELD FOR ALL THOSE INTERESTED
23-4. Against the Illini the Irish regulars notched a quick 14 wins 
IN NEWS AND FEATURE WRITING.
and substitutes took it from 
TOPICS WHICH WILL BE COVERED INCLUDE:
there. Doug Daher again was 3-0 in sabre, Rich Daladrier was 
STRUCTURE OF A NEWS STORY
2-0 in epee, and John Lyons 
INTERVIEWING TECHNIQUE
was 2-0 in foil. Against Tri-
THE ROLE OF INTERPRETATION IN A NEWS STORY. 
Shooters down Morgan State 
THE QUESTION OF OBJECTIVITY. 
Notre Dame's Sarin Riflemen, academic reasons. led by William Elliott and Bob The Irish Team will be idle Rettig, remained undefeated in until next week when they travel 
DA T£5: Mon.-March 2 
eight matches by outshooting to Booneville, Missouri to parti­
Wed. -March 5 

Morgan State College of Maryla cipate in the 35th annual Mid­
TIM£: 7:30-9:oo
nd, 1348 to 640. Elliott and. west Indoor Camp Perry REttig fired scores of 280 and Matches. 273 respectively. MSC was led Coach Ortwein is still looking 
PLACE: 356 O'Shaughnessy
hy Bill Wimbusch's 201. In fair-for shooters and anyone is wei­ness to the Morgan State Squad, come to try out for the team. If it is necessary to point out that you are interested call 283-6315 
· Ca1I 1715 for in formation
some of their top shooters were between 1 and 5 daily. St. declared ineligible because of Mary's students invited also. 
-PAGE 8 7118 O&rERJJER MONDAY, MARCH 2, 1970 -:( 
•

Rebounding, shooting key factors 1n Irish loss 
by Terry Shields 95-79. The packed house of 13,450 went absolutely wild at
Observer Sports Writer the close of the game and that There must be something 
was only a preview of the cele­about playing Notre Dame, no 
bration made by the students matter what the sport, that outside of the new arena. brings out the best in a team. 
The game began with N D Last Saturday the Dayton Flyers 
taking the initial lead but this' played their best game of the 
was the only time all night that season as they whipped the Irish 
·uo fell behind. Dayton built their lead up to as much as 16 pts. during the first half. They did this mainly on the strength of Kenny May's outside shooting and George Janky's rebounding. At the half May had 18 pts. (26 for the game) and Janky had 10 rebounds and 15 pts. (22 rbds. and 25 for the game). 

UD led 49-38 at intermission and NO was lucky to be that close. Pat Murnen, a 6' 5" guard, did an excellent job of defensing Austin Carr. He held Carr to 12 pts. and more important a mea­ger 4 of 12 from the field. 
The Flyers outshot NO at the half, 52.7% to 37.5% and out­rebounded them by a 33-16 margin. The consistent play of Collis Jones kept the Irish in the contest and a brief moment of brilliance by the entire squad before the end of the period brought the Irish to within II. 
Captain Carr got hot as the 
second stanza began and he 
FG Collis Jones 10-20 Tom Sinnot 4-13 Sid Catlett 2-9 Austin Carr I0-25 Jack Meehan 2-4 Jay Ziznewski 2-3 Jim Hinga 0-1 John Gallagher 0-0 TOTALS 30-75 

Shooting: Dayton 35 of 79 for 44 per cent; 
19-28 44 79 George Schoioerner 1-1 0-0 0 2 Jim Gotschall 9-18 0-0 4 18 Nick Ferri 0-0 0-0 0 0 TOTALS 35-79 25-32 58 95 

Notre Dame 30 of 75 for 40 per cent. 
FROM 
exploded for 1 7 pts. in the first nine minutes to bring the Irish to within one point. It was here that the turn point of the game arose. NO had cooled off May and they were beginning to hold their own on the boards. Jim Gottschall then hit 4 hoops in­side of J minutes and the "psyched up" crowd went be­serk. 
Irish. attempts became more futile from this point and the offense couldn't get the ball to Carr. Although Austin had 3\ pts. he shot probably his poorest percentage of the year (40%). Carr and Jones outscored Dayton's two high men, Janky and May by a 55-51 count. The difference came in Gottschall's 18 pts. 
Another big factor was the team rebounding. The Flyers managed to jump off their Tar­tan surface floor high enough to outrebound NO 60-45. No one 

FT Rbds Pts 
4-7 I2 24 Ken May I-1 7 9 GeorgeJanky 
0-0 II 4 George Jackson II-I3 4 31 Pat Murnen 
0-1 I 4 Tom Crosswhite 
3-S S 7 Steve Turnwald 
0-1 4 0 Jack Keehan 
0-0 0 0 Jerry Gotschall has handled the Irish like that since UCLA. UD also out shot NO, 44.3% to 40%. 
The Irish showed a definite lack of bench strength in this game. It seemed that no one could spark the team when it needed help most. Of course Mike O'Connel's ankle sprain kept him out of action and he may have been able to get the ball to Austin. 
This loss can be viewed in two ways. First, the loss takes away a great deal from the excelknl momentum that the Irish had built over the last nine games. There is a bright way of looking at the situation, also. Perhaps the Irish got that "bad g<Jme" out of their system and they might be ready to play the grade of bllll that they are cupable of playing. They can forget about this game and look forward to meeting Ohio U. with a definite positive attitude. 
FG  FT  Rbds  Pts  
12-29  2-6  12  26  
6-14  13-13  22  25  
1-3  1-2  7  3  
2-4  3-3  3  7  
4-9  4-6  7  12  
0-1  2-2  2  2  
0-0  0-0  0  0  
0-0  0-0  1  0  

We also have the '70 collection of Jantzen swim trunks BUY NOW... PAY NEXT SUMMER 
PAY ONE THIRD PAY ONE THIRD PAY ONE THIRD 
* * 
in June in July in August 
Your account Is already open ... no red tape 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
Weekend Sports -page 7 


