
Kunstler ~o speak here in Sunday afternoon address 
by Bill Carter 
held in Stepan Center in expec­Bend agencks. 
In the last major event under _tation of a crowd surpassing the Commission Director Pat the present leadership, the Stu­2200 that turned out to hear Dr. McDonough described some of dent Union Academic Commis­Benjamin Spock. the problems he contends his sion has scheduled a speech by Kunstler is scheduled to arrive organization had encountered in William M. Kunstler for this Sun­shortly after one, deliver his securing Kunstler's acceptance day afternoon. Kunstler served speech and answer questions fol­to speak. He said the Commis­as defense attorney at the con­lowing the let:ture. The Academ­sion had tentatively contacted troversial "Chicago seven" trial ic Commission has given press Kunstler in an attempt to have last month, and is wrrently de­passes to all the local news de­him come to Notre Dame to fending H. Rap Brown, who is partments and has already re­speak on March 8 but that the on trial in Maryland. The ledure ceived respon~es from the Chica­offer had fallen through when will begin at I:30 and will he go press and most of the South the lawyer was forced to begin 
his work on Brown's defense 
earlier than expected. 
"When that date fell through
Business survey taken 
we started work right away on finding out when Kunstler would next be available," McDonough said. "But we ran into some
to help Indian business 
immediate complications. We 
found out Kunstler would be in Defense Attorney WiOiam Kunstler,by Greg Pudhorodsky 
(continued on page 3) scheduled to appear here Sunday, 
Professor Frederick Dow of with mass produced and thus the Marketing Department and less expensive commercial pro­graduate students working with duds. 



Sihanouk deposed
the Sioux Craft Project n~et yes­The current survey will be terday with Chief Red Bird and conducted by members ot the BANGKOK, Thailand (UPI)­tal had been cut off shortly get Hanoi and the Viet Cong to other members of the Rosebud project visiting relatives in the Rightwing opponents brus­before the announcement. A withdraw their troops from reservation to formulate plans aforementioned cities. The hope quely deposed Cambodia's neu­correspondent for the Japanese Cambodia. for an upcoming market survey. of Professor Dow is thai the tralist chief of state Prince Kyodo news agency reported Lon Nol had previously tried 
The survey, which will take survey in the future will encom­Nordom Sihanouk yesterday that tanks and troops were to shift the government to the place over the Easter vacation pass up to fifteen cities. while he was away in Moscow. moved in Wednesday morning, right in 1967 while Sihanouk period, will cover merchants in The survey is the most recent Sihanouk warned the move apparently before the ouster, to was abroad in Prance. But the the South Bend, Chicago, New step in a project which began could result in war with North guard important government prince quickly returned and York, and San Francisco areas. when Professor Dow met Chief Vietnam and vowed to return, buildings in Phnom Penh. effected a government shakeup The purpose is, according to Red Bird at the University's even it it meant his arrest. The broadcast said Sihanouk that foiled the general's attempt Dow, to interest department Indian Conference and became The offidal Phnom Penh was replaced provisionally by to seize power. stores, novelty shops, and fascinated with the man's goal to Radio announced the Cam­Cheng Heng, SO, a millionaire psychedelic shops in the pro­gain economic stability for a bodian National Assembly had lawyer and national assembly Wednesday's takeover came duds of tht• Sioux tribe. community which currently has ousted Sihanouk, 47, blaming speaker who had been acting as only two days after Viet Cong 
The goods are divided into 75% of its inhabitants unem­him for the "political crisis" chief of state since the Cam­and North Vietnamese nego­three types: leather work, bead ployed. created by the presence of at bodain leader went abroad. tiators ignored a Cambodian work, and the most expensive Projecting ideas which may be least 40,000 North Vietnamese The key figure behind the government demand that their products, original wood carvings. undertaken in the future, Profes­and Viet Cong troops on Car.J­takeover was believed to be Gen. 
troops leave the country and 
An added problem which arises sor Dow talked of the possibility bodian soil. Lon Not, Cambodian premier demanded, instead, that Cam­with the bead work, Dow con­of a tourist service, and means Air travel and communica­and armed forces commander, bodia pay them reparations for tended, is that it must compete tions with the Cambodian capi­who has led the recent drive to 
damages done to their embassies
(cuntinued on paKe 3) 
by anti Communist Cambodian mobs that sacked the premises during three days of riotous demonstralions.

Faculty Senate adds students 
In Washington the White by John Abowd House h<ad no immediate com­
The Faculty Senate in its of the Senate while in formal the Senate, Tihen said he pre­Senate said that "student ment on the situation in Cam­regular March meeting last night session." sumed it would be effective "as government" induded whatever bodia. "We're watching the situ­amended its by-laws to allow: The motion carried by a vote of this minute." structures might develop from ation very closely and Ipve no "two official representatives of 33-2, only one more vote Prof. Daniel Pasto of the changes now being considered, comment on it," White House each from the Graduate Student than the 32 needed for pass-Executive Committee intro­specifically in the status of the Press Secretary Ronald Ziegler Union and Student Government. age. S1nce this is the IJrst duced the report. Professor Hall Presidents Council. He said said. ..speaking privileges on the floor amendment to the by-laws of Joseph Tihen, Chairman of the he had consulted Student Body 
-,~,· President-elect Dave Krashna 
.;,: regarding the use of the words Observers said the Nixon Student Government rather than adminstration presumably was "Student Senate," as the resolu­adopting extremely cautious
an 
tion originally read. attitude because of the possibili­The Senate also soundly re-ty that Sihanouk rnigh t still return to power and because of
jected a resolution from the the generally delicate nature ofsubcommittee on campus securi­Cambodian politics.
ty presented by Prof. Robert Anthony calling for a parking News of the ouster reachedfee of ten dollars per semester to Sihanouk as he was ending abe levied against faculty mem­four day visit to Moscow duringbers in order to defer the cost of whid1 he was reported to haveadditional campus security. lie urged the Soviets to use theircontended that the present situa­influence in oht<aining the with­tion seemed unfair because stu­drawal of North Vietnamese anddents were required to pay $25 Viet Cong forces from hiswhile the f<Jculty parked free. 
kingdom.
Prof. LeClair Eells, from the Dep<Jrtment of Finance, spoke ag<Jinst the resolution, arguing 
Before flying to Peking Wed­
that faculty cars were not the nesday, Sihanouk said he had victims of night time vandalism been told by Premier Alexei N.
and the 4,000 dollars this fcc Kosygin that "war will heprovided would be a "mere drop inevita hll' het wel'n Cam hodia in the bucket" in the $200,000 and Vietnam, if the extrl'me to $300,000 proposed for the 
rightists continue to attack our (continued on page 2J allies."


PAGE 2 
THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 1970
THE OBSERVER 


Hippies hijack U.S. munitions ship 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The armed hippies, Clyde McKay anri captain of the hijacked SS Alvin Glatkowski," but that Col urn bia Eagle believes that as three other seamen were believ­many as five crewmen might ed to be "involved to some have been involved in the extent." He identified them as mutiny that diverted the muni-Dan Monin, Bruce Gray and tions ship to Cambodia, it was Maurice Sather. disclosed yesterday. The disclosure was made here 
Capt. Donald Swann said in a · by Sen. Mark 0. Hatfield cablegram that the ship was ( R-Ore.), who released the con­seized at gunpoint by "two tents of a cablegram from Swann to I.C. Thayer, president of the Columbia Steamship Co., which leased the vessel to the Military Sea Transportation Service. 


In Portland, Ore., Thayer's company listed Monin as being from Phoenix, Ariz., Gray from Merrick, N.Y., and Sather from Motley, Minn. Glatkowski, 20, is from Long Beach, Calif. McKay, 25, is from Escondido, Calif. 
The State Department said Wednesday the vessel was being "detained temporarily" while Cambodian authorities investi­gated to determine how it came to enter their waters. 
The Defense Department said Adm. John McCain Jr., com­mander of all U.S. forces in the Pacific, rejected suggestions from subordinates that the Navy forcibly retrieve the Columbia Eagle from Cambodia, which granted political asyl urn to McKay and Glatkowski. 
Sources described McKay and Glatkowski to UP! as marijuana­smoking hippies who opposed the Vietnam War. The ship was taking munitions to Thailand for use in Vietnam. 
Jerry W. Friedheim, a Defense Department spokesman, said Swann radioed that one of the 

mutineers indicated there would said. be more such hijackings. But later, Swann said, "This 
"McKay and Glatkowski was changed to where the master stated from the beginning that if could stay aboard." the Cambodian government Swann said "a Cambodian would not seize the vessel that gunboat made fast alongside they would scuttle it, that every­while another circled the vessel." 
one would have to get off at the earliest opportunity," Swann 

Sweeney asks for return of pictures 
The Observer got a call yester­day from Sweeney's Shamrock in South Bend. 
During the St. Patrick's Day's festivities some Notre Dame stu­dents walked off with some pic­tures that have little monetary value but a lot of sentimental value for Mrs. Sweeney and the rest of the people down there. 
The first picture was present­
ed to Mr. Paul Sweeney a num­
ber of year's ago by Notre Dame 
football star Frank Coughlin. 
Two other old pictures taken 
from the backroom of 
Sweeney's were of some former 
Notre Dame football players. 

Mrs. Sweeney informed The Observer that she hoped that the students who took them would return them. She said that if they were returned there would be no questions asked. They could be returned personally or mailed to Sweeney's, or broughl 
to the Observer office. Mrs. Sweeney noted that a fine relation existed between 
Notre  Dame  students  and  
Sweeney's  and  expressed  the  
hope  that  they  would  under­ 

stand the sentimental value that the pictures had to her and that they would be returned. 
APPLICATIONS ARE NOW BEING TAKEN FOR THE 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT CABINET POSITIONS OF: 

EXECUTIVE CO-ORDINA TOR 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COMMISSIONER ACADEMIC AFFAIRS COMMISSIONER 
OFF-CAMPUS COMMISSIONER COMMUNITY RELATIONS COMMISSIONER 
PUBLIC RELATIONS COMMISSIONER JUDICIAL CO-ORDINATOR 
HUMAN AFFAIRS COMMISSIONER 
Recruitment Action Program Chairman Students Against Racism Chairman 

SBR  also  plans  to  collect  
money  from  the  students  on  
campus  tonight.  Hamilton  said  

HALL LIFE COMMISSIONER 
OMBUDSMAN PERSONNEL NSA CO-ORDINATOR 
APPLICATION MAY BE MADE BY SUBMITTING A STATEMENT OF INTHJT fO 
(}Jve Krashna Box 522 Student Government Office Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
The applications should contain a applicant:~ conception uf the Farious cahine t positions. The applicants will not position. Your application for one position may be considered for another position. 
Applications must be .filed by AIIIWU/uement of appointment and acceptance shortly after March 14. 


Faculty Senate defeats parking fee proposal 
(continued from page I) 
security program budget next year. 
A resolution to create a University Architectural plan­ning committee to advise the administration on: building priorities, selection of architects, supervision of construction and fu_rnishing, and cooperation with local government was passed 35-1. The motion recommended that faculty members of profes­sional competence in this area be 
The Religion of Jesus was Judaism . . . 
The Religion about Jesus became Christianity. 
You can't be truly religious unless you understand the Jewish Religion. 

Send $2.00 for 
"JEWISH 
INFORMATION" 
Jewish Information Society of America­72 East 11th, Chicago, 60605 

f~oint~to the committee. The final article of business was the creation of an ad hoc committee to investigate faculty rarticipation in long and short range budgetary planning and report its findings to the Senate proper. The Faculty Senate will meet again next month. 
SBR plans 

(continued from page 3) 
United States Senators, Con­
gressmen, and Governors. This letter urges the President to co­operate with the United Nations 
and the Organization for African Unity to alleviate conditions. in the enclave Biafra. 
that hall captains had b'een as­signed and they would canvas their respective areas sometime 
. in the evening. 
JOSS• !OBS1 and morP. JOBS! Stu· 
•leoots, Teachers. Stateside and lnter­ra~ioral Jnhs. Racn.>Jtional Jobs: >'enr·round Jot)S; Sumrner Jobs. A'll 
occupations ann ttades. f~njoy a vaca· 
lion while you earn. Hu•ryo The best jobs Me taken early. Write: ".IOBS"j 
P.O. Box 475, Dept. CP 163·1, L<'di 
CJiof. ')5240 
PAGE 3

THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 1970 

71/E OBSEIHIM 

SBR to expand overseas 
by Ed Ellis 
Tom Hamilton, president of ters in France and Germany. lie to recent news reports on the Students for Biafran Relief a-Through Chenard, whose son Students for Biafran Relief, an­also stated that recent informa­subject. round the country. Next week, is a Notre Dame student who has nounced yesterday that his or­tion he had received from According to Hamilton, the Hamilton said, the $5,000 will been "very active" in SBR, Ham­ganization had so far collected Nigeria and Geneva indicated organization has over $3500 in be sent to William Dabney of the ilton has learned that "any state­$5,000 of its $1 million goal, that the Nigerian Red Cross had its account in South Bend, with League of Red Cross Societies in ments detrimental to the and would shortly expand to an significantly improved the a good deal more expect~ from Nigt:r..l. This organization was Nigerian Red Cross are now international group with chap-quality of its services, contrary about 60 other chapters of recommended to SBR by Jean highly falsified." lie continued, Chenard, director of the Cath-"Recent reports from Nigeria olic Relief Services in Geneva, and Geneva indicate that the Switzerland. Nigerian Red Cross is progressing
Marcuse to speak on China 
As the result of several con-at its best under the direction of tacts made in the past few Mr. Zaid Mohammad in Lagos." weeks, Students for Biafran Re-He could not say, however, what 
Jacques Marcuse, veteran for­ager for Agence France-Presse. tiuns, The New Party Program-lief is in the process of becoming had caused the b~td reports in eign correspondent to China, He left China in 1950 and re­May 4. an international organization. the first place, or how the situ-will speak at eight o'clock on turned to Peking as a correspon­Mao Tse-Tung:~ Ideological Unit! now only American ation had changed since the had March 19 in the auditorium of dent in 1962. From this assign­Contributions, The Role of Ideo-schools had been included in the reports had come out. the law school. ment he gathered material to logy in Communism-May 18. campaign. Hamilton reported In other -action taken by SBR 
Marcuse, whose talk is spon­write a book describing China The films will be shown at H _that literature was being sent to this week, Hamilton said that sored by the Orestes Brownson under Chairman Mao. p.m. on their respective nights universities in England, France, copies of his letter to President Society, spent over I 5 years in In addition to Marcuse, the and will be followed by a discus-and Germany. Nixon had been sent ot all 
China and has been reporting society will continue its series of sion period. 
(continued on page 2)

major developments in that films entitled The Nature of country's history for the past 3H Communism. There are five years. lie covered the Lytton films yet to be shown in room Committee, which investigated I 04 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. The 



Kunstler coming Sunday 
Japanese aggression in Man­remaining films are: churia for the League of Na­From Marx to l.enin and Le­tions, as his first assignment. He nin :~ Concept of the Party­
(continued from page I) Academic Commission to set up reach the widest possible rangeserved as bureau chief for the March 23. 
Kunstler's schedule so that he of student opinion." A~em~e France-Presse for a year The Strategy of Coming to 
Chicago this weekend but was 

only available for Sunday the could speak early in the after­in pre-war Tokyo, where he did Power, The Future Communist McDonough indicated thatnoon and still have time to make
22nd."
Regime-April 6.

most of his reporting from "Illinois University had con­plane connections to be in Chi­there had been some opposition
World Politics, Tactical Opera­

Shanghai. cago by five. in Administrative circles to
tacted Kunstler and gotten him
tionJ·-April 20.

After V.E. Day, he returned Kunstler's speaking hut that the
to agree to speak at five o'clock. "We are very pleased to learn 
to Shanghai as Far-Eastern Man-Stalin s Ideological Cuntribu-Commission had received the
Then the Illinois Board of Trus­that Kunstler said he wanted to 
complete support of both Fr.
tees met and voted not to let speak at only two Universities in Hesburgh and Fr. McCarragher.
him speak so we got in touch the country and that Notre
Draft to be discussed 
He also said he had heard somewith him right away. We used ,Dame was one of them," rumors outside groups may at-
A workshop will be held this Two more speeches will be the same sources as when we got McDonough said. "The other weekend to inform interested given on Sunday, March 22. The Renee Davis here to speak in was Harvard. Kunsller believes Continued on pal(e 7 Notre Dame's free-
students on the alternatives to first of these will be on defer­December. It was then we learned that Kunstler was genu­policy gives him an opportunity
military service. The workshop ments. The second and last 
will he sponsored by the newly lecture will begin at 4:00 and inely interested in speaking at to expound his views in close Notre Dame." proximity to the Chicago area
formed Catholic Peace Fellow­will cover conscientious objec­McDonough said the Illinois where many univeristies had
ship, an outgrowth of the Notre tion. Board held a second meeting and previously denied him the right
Dame CO club. All four lectures will be given finally voted to allow Kunstler to talk. In addition he thinksThe first two lectures will in room 2D in La Fortune Stu­to speak. Thai action, Mc­Notre Dame's national studentbe on Saturday, March 21. The dent Center. A twenty-five cent 
l)onough contended, forced the 
him the chance to
first lecture will be held at fee will he collected from every­--­3:00pm, and will explain the one attending each lecture to pay 
STUDENT AUTO FINANCE PLAN
various facets of emigration as for expenses. Any one interested an alternative to induction. The should call Mike Yarbrough 
No payments for ninety days! New or used cars 
next kcture will be held at 4:00 (phone:2H3-1642) or Mike Ko­
to qualified graduating seniors. Lower payments 
to he in draft resistance and will va~:cvich (232-1 H42) for infor­
available for first 1/3 of contract with nominal
include a discussion of the pos­mation. 
down payments. For more exact information,
sibility of being jailed. 
contact-

JORDAN FORD 


Indians to receive hel 
609 E. )efferson 
qs there 
doesn't exist, but we will try our 

Mishawaka, Indiana
(continued /rom page I) 
best." 




a'Paulist

by which outside small husi­
Ph 
ncssl'S <:ould he attracted to the 

in the crowd? 
South Dakotan reservation. While visiting the Cllmpus, Chief Red Bini had lunch with 
Believe it or not, a campus pro­fifteen students from Zahm and 
APPLICATIONS ARE NOW ·BEING TAKEN 
test group is not an unlikely Morrissey llalls. A discussion in 
place to find a Paulist. the lounge at Zahm followed 
Why? Because Paulists arc lhcwhere the Sioux chic f spoke of 

FOR THE POSITION OF 
mt•diators of our time ... stand­his people's troubles and hopes. 

ing hetween God and man ...

Sometime after Easter, Profes­understanding, helping, loving sor Dow and one or two grad ... trying lo hring together thestudents will travel to the reser­exlremes of the world we live


STUDENT UNION
vation to make their report to in and the Church. 
the tribe. When asked what he Wherever he is ... as a college
thinks those results might be, chaplain. working in a ghetto
Dow said that his answer was the 

DIRECTOR 
or helping in a parish ... the

same that he had given Chief Paulist is .l't•fl'inl!.
Red Bird hl'fore he left, "We don't want the people of the If you're interested in finding
APPLICATION MAY BE MADE BY SUBMITIING A
Rosebud reservation to get their 
out more ahout the Paulist hopes up too high. We may he 
STATEMENT OF INTENT TO 

priestly spirit. write for our looking for a market that 
illustrated hrochurc and· a copy of our Renewal Chapter Guide­

*FINEST IN ~I tHtUi'-, Dave Krashna 
lines.
Tt:AC. ALTI~·c. I box 522 LANSING JVC I Student Government office 

Write to: Notre Dame, Incl. 46556 
Vocation Director~ . Ca(L.ll · ___;_ _j 
Jo~~rP~dn~~T'{o~ 


'Paulisth 

The Observer is published daily 

Pat ef$ 

during the college semester excepl 
The application should contain a statement of the applicants 
Room 400

vacalions by students of the Uni· 
eo!U'eption of the role of Student U11ion Director.

versrty of Notre Oame and St. 
4 I 5 West 59th Street Mary's College. Subsciptions may 
New York. N.Y. 10019

Applications must be .flied by t:riday March ]0. Anlwunccmcnt of 
be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Oame, 
appointment and acceptance 1vill be made on Monday, March 23. 
1nd., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 

PAGE 4 
THE O&rERJIER. 




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 


Glen Corso 
When I read the press release that the Student Union Academic Commission sent me concerning the upcoming Kunstler lecture, I was struck with a pair of thoughts. The first was my strong distaste for the so called "Chicago 7" and the childish antics they displayed in the courtroom. The second thought, no less important than the first, was in the form of a question. 
Doesn't the Academic Commission have some sort of policy concerning speakers which says that they will attempt to bring people from both sides of the political fence to Notre Dame? 
And even if it doesn't have such a policy shouldn't it? With all due modesty, I think that the conservative philosophy has something ~o offer Notre Dame. Even if students think differently they still w1ll have the opportunity to hear the other side. As I see it, and I'm sure the commissioners agree, the function of the Academic Commission is to educate students by arranging to have persons representing various points of view speak on campus. I feel that the Academic Commission is lacking the balance necessary to be considered an 
educative service. The commissioners' political feelings seem to determine the points of view to be represented. Out of the sum total of all the speakers the commission has sponsored I could only remember three, that could be considered 
conservative. The first, Russell Kirk, was obviously conservative. Yet I stretched the point a bit in classifying Cmdr. Loyd Bucher as a conservative. I remember a conversation between myself and the current Academic Commissioner in which he told me that they had 
ascertained ahead of time that the Cmdr. was not going to make a speech on his own political views, since "the students wouldn't be interested in it". It seems the Cmdr.made the horrible mistake of talking about patiotism and loyalty and all kinds of other rot like that in his last speech before some alumni. The commission wanted to make sure that he would talk about the Pueblo incident only. Yet I will concede the fact that Cmdr. Bucher is conservative. 
The third person which I felt had a conservative point of view was Dr. Edward Teller. The nature of his talk though did not exactly lend itself to expressing a conservative point of view. Rather it was an explanation of the reasons behind present governmental nuclear policy. However Dr. Teller is conservative. There was one other person that I almost forgot. Brig. Gen. Richard Dunn who was also conservative. The only objection I have is that I would hesitate to match the General's drawing power against such emin~nt liberals as Charles Goodell, Roger Hillsman, Vance Hartke, and Richard Hatcher. However he is conservative. Still though if one leans back and considers the various speakers that have been sponsored by SUAC you can't help but feel that there was a lopsided number of liberal and radical speakers brought here, in proportion to conservative. A quick run down of the list of speakers brings forth such names as David Steinberg, Dr. Benjamin Spock, Hans Morgenthau, Rennie Davis, David Dellinger, Paul Goodman are scarcely the guiding lights of conservatism. I realize that there may be problems in getting some major conservative speakers to come to campus. Yet for two years now I 
have heard three different Academic Commissioners tell me that they were going to have such men as Barry Goldwater, Blll Buckley, and James Burnham and John Tower to speak here on campus. Yet 
somehow they have never materialized. Instead we have been treated with the bombastic rhetoric of Rennie Davis and Benjamin Spock. 
Maybe I'm wrong, but I for one would like the Academic Commission to come out and admit the truth. I would like them to admit that they don't really follow a balanced speaker policy, but rather they follow the political leanings of the individual com­missioners. 

News Editor: Glen S. Corso Business Mgr.: Bruce Reick  Assistant to Assistant News Ed· itor: Tom Bornholdt  Layout: Brian Kelly, Glen Cor­so, Redbeard, John Ab?wd, Bro. Pat carney, the Gtpper  
Ad. Mgr. : Bruce Barker  Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin  Layout Design: Ed Ellis  
SMC News Editor: Prue Wear  Feature Editor: the late Dave Stauffer  Headlines: Randy Young  
Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode Ann Conway, Jeanne Sweeny  Photography Editor: Mike Mur­phy  Ad Layout: Jim Flanagan Night Controller: Randy Ernst  
Assistant News Editor: Bill Car· ter  Night Editor: T.C. Treanor  Dispatcher:  L.  Emmet  
Ballantine  

THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 19/"0 

::::::1;m====ii:;;~=,=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:;:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::;:;: 
Institutional racism gone? 
This is another in a series of columns by the Students Against Racism. 
The United States has recently prided itself in being a progressive and humanitarian nation in race relations. Certainly, legalized slavery no longer exists, but are we safe in assuming that black people are progressing economically and politically? More importantly, can we rationalize our institutional racism by saying and believing that "the conditions of black people in this country are improving?" 
It is nor difficult to find empirical data to support an affirmative answer. Edward Brooke is now a senator, there are Thurgood Marshalls and Jackie Robinsons and others who have broken the chains of discrimination to make it in new fields. Individual break-through, however, does not reflect the objective conditions of the masses of black people in America. With extreme ease, we whites point to these few individuals and proclaim that the truth of the American Dream still obtains. But there are two problems with this kind of "Horatio Alger" thinking. First, it tends to regard failure as an individual phenomenon, and success as the result of an open, classless society. the second is that the institutional structures of the socio-economic system are suL:h that blacks cannot succeed and thus the self-fulfilling prophecy of the inability of blacks to succeed is satisfied. 
With this background, we would like to touch on a few areas to examine the progress among blacks in America. First, the income gap between white and non-white populations in America has been growing. As reported in the Chicago Sun Times, the third report of a series ordered by President Johnson shows that "the dollar gap between white median family income and the inc6me of Negroes and other races has widened since 194 7, with Negro income increasing from$3,076 to $5,339 and white from $4,020 to $8,936 in 1968." That is, the gap has increased from 944 to 3,577 dollars! 
Unemployment statistics yield similar evidence of deterioration for non-whites. In 1967, the Department of Labor reports, the non-white unemployment rate has remained at a level double that of whites throughout the post World War II ear (i.e. 7-9%), well above the recognized "recession" level of 6%. More importantly, it should be noted that national statistics rarely reveal the local un­employment and underemployment conditions for blacks, especi~lly m urban slums and rural areas. The US Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders called the concentration of male black employment in low income jobs as "the single most important source of poverty 
among Negroes." Probably the most shocking gap is that in the health area. First, the environmental conditions in Black neighborhoods are strikingly below that of whites. Garbage collection and other sanitary services are grossly inadequate, even the storage of food is poor due to an inability to buy the proper equipment. Black mothers die during delivery at a rate of four times that of whites (almost double the rate difference in 1940). Usually a significant indication of the quality of health is the infant mortality has significantly increased. In 1940, black children died at a rate of 2.1 times that of whites. In 1969, hlack children died at a rate of almost 3 times that of whites! What has been discussed here is a brief Jnd shallow overview of institutional racism's effects. None of us had to life a finger to kill the child who died yesterday from a lack of medical attention. How the institutions work to carry out this murder is very complex, but they run very smoothly, primarily due to the silent "yes" they receive from us. Statistics such as these can have a dehumanizing effect toward those being categorized. Americans, especially white, have become inured to numbers simply because our society has used statisitics for so long. For this reason I debated a length on which way to approach this article. For most of us, the blatant dualism and gross inequality between races in our society is an accepted fact. However, the rationalization that "things are getting better" has recently disposed us to disregard this knowledge. Therefore, I have tried to show in a cursory way that things are not getting better, in fact, the conditions have deteriorated relative to whites since 1940. Myriads of books crammed with statistics have been printed that elaborate on this. Only one fact, however, seems to be needed: a black child about to be born has less than half the chance of seeing his first birthday than a white· child does. This is blatant institutional racism-very few people feel a need to react to such tragedies because our con­scious-free systems have accomplished for them what the KKK could do only on a limited scale through lynchings and burnings. 
THURSDAY. MARCH 19, 1970 
PAGE 5 


THE OBSERWR 

Women's liberation: a radical restructuring 
presented as an opportunity to evade

by Kathy Cecil 
those difficulties and responsibilities 

The ends of liberation are two. The which the man takes upon himself when first involves a change in consciousness, in he goes out into the world each day. The the basic ways in which a human being woman comes to see her position in 
experiences herself. The second end is marriage as ideaL She cares for the house comprised of the release that results when and children in return for a meaning for the individual is finally cognizant of the her existence. She is cared for, and conditioning that has been exerted upon through her husband and children she her. The recognition of this conditioning attains more influence and control in and its sources in social institutions is society than she would be albe to attain part of the change in consciousness. The on her own. The paradox here is, that two ends are closely intertwined and while the woman seeks to define herself interdependent. through her husband, he seeks self Woman experiences herself as a free realization through her. and autonomous being. She finds, how­man is able to view
The woman as an ever, when confronting the world that she 
object through wwhich he can realize his is compelled to assume a role other than own ego. The woman also sees herself as that. Here is the first split. In the eyes of an object through which the man can men she is viewed as an object. Her realize his ego. She sets herself up as existence is based in immanence. For object rather than subject in her own woman, in the world, any personal tran­mind. A split. This is, of course, a severe scendence must be realized in another limitation for her. She can accomplish ego, i.e. in the man. When circumstances nothing alone. She too needs an object to combine to deny her transcendence which she can respond and so determine through a man, she is forced to invent a her essence. The relation of the sexes 

transcendent meaning for her existence. 
then evolves in a struggle. The objectA girl is raised to view marriage as her which man seeks, constantly defies his end, and so her education is in a sense categories by suggestion of a personal more limited than the boy's. He will grow subjectivity which has nothing to do with to support a family be his work. Her lack him. Woman then is all that man desires 

of education icnreases her dependency on (self realization) and she is simultan­others and reenforces her desire for a eously an intimation of what he cannot care is
husband to for her. Marriage attain (a perfect object to the struggle for 


CJF tonight 
judge last year, has spent the last mne months working on a new album. He has played with and written for Count Basic, by Steve Novak Dizzy Gillespie, Milt Jackson, Cannonball Adderly and Buddy Rich (among others), 
It's CJ F time again, a bit of news and can be expected to do a fine job on which will warm the hearts of music his own. lovers and cause the rest of you to either So what will these people be talking read this out of curiousity (what's a CJF, about tonight? Well, you can be pretty anyway'!) or turn the page. sure that questions will arise about col-
For those of you who are still with me, leges and jazz musicians. Certainly jazz-l'll mention again that the Collegiate Jazz men are justifiably bitter about Herb Festival begins tonight. It is something of Alpert and Blood, Sweat and Tears get-a tradition that Thursday night be de-ting more offers than they can take, while voted to discussion, not performance. they themselves aren't getting any· Out of last year's Thursday symposium I hate to belabor the point, because grew Michiana Friens of Jazz (for details BS&T are good at what they do, but what read Professor Bizot 's article in what they do isn't jazz, and certainly isn't as looks like an excellent CJ F program). creative as the things that Herbie Han-From this year's, hopefully, will come a cock or Gary McFarland are doing, with greater understanding of what jazz is-and far less attention from the music-con­
hat l.t 1·sn't sci·ous college audience. Mel Lewis, who
w · · · 
A generation of American youth are leads a band in New York along with growing up with the mistaken impression Thad Jones (Elvin's brother) summed up that the blues were discovered-or the argument rather well. "I don't see invented-by the Rolling Stones and John why we couldn't go on tour. Blood, Mayall. There is a growing danger that Sweat and Tears sells out on campuses, they will live their lives under another and don't tell me we aren't more exciting misconception-that Blood, Sweat and than that" If you want to debate the Tears and Herb Alpert play jazz (after all, validity of that statement, don't call me, wasn't Alpert elected to the jazz hall of go to the symposium tonight at 8p.m. in fame by the people who vote in the the auditorium of the CCE. 
Playboy poll?). Tonight's symposium •••••••••••••••••• 
"Jazz and Rock" will attempt to deal with this strange delusion. The panel will be headed by Dan Morganstern, who is JEMEZ, N.M. (UPI)-The U.S. Forest also, not surprisingly, the head of the Service has said its rangers have started panel of judges (the membership of the "hippie patrols" to cut down on nude two panels being the same). Morganstern bathing in New Mexico national forests. has been judging here since he was named Fred R. Swetnam, district ranger for editor of Down Beat in the summer of the Santa Fe National Forest, said the 
1967. idea behind the patrols was to avoid 
Joining him on the panel will be three confrontations with hippies violating for­musiCians and one teacher-critic-est regulations by bathing nude in composer. The latter is Leon Breeden, streams. who keeps busy doing all those things and "We're not challenging the hippies' dir,.,cting bands at North Texas State activities except when they infringe on University. The three musicians are all the rights of the majority," Swetnam reed men, a surpise of sorts, since it has said. been over five years since the panel "Then we're immediately forced to lacked at least one trumpet player. Joe defend the establishment." Farrell plays with the Elvin Jones Trio-He said rangers on the routine patrols although he didn't appear when MFJ had been told not to be suprised at brought the trio to town-and Richard finding hippies "naked or engaged in Abrams has played with Gene Ammons, mystic activities" that sometimes offend­Lambert-hendricks-and Ross, Maynard ed tourists camping in the forests. Ferguson, Roland Kirk, Woody Herman, Swetnam said when violations of forest Art Fammer, and Max Roach in a career service regulations were reported, rangers spanning two decades, and now entering a tried to make contact with the com­
munities' "power structure" and get third. His most recent work has been with hippie leaders to "control their own the Land-Hutcherson Quintet, which bunch." appeared in South Bend las~. m~>nth, He said the rangers were trying to sponsored again by MFJ. The f1tth JUdge adopt a policy of "live and let live" is Ernie Wilkins, who is back for a second between the hippie communities and taste of Notre Dame. Wilkins, who was a tourists using the recreational facilities of 
the forests. 

his own transcendence.) it is of no use to her. Her life is at home. While he wants her as an object he is If she is not married it is in men or in always aware that because of the role he 
some temporary concern or obligation imposes on her, she is immersed in the that she is forced to find jusr~fication. immedkate. She is a hint of death. Man is 
Thus the woman's experience of herself threatened. When her body takes on a and what she is as defined by society consciousness of its own, that conscious­
create a conflict. The woman seeks var­ness denies his possession. The struggle is 
ious means of reconcining the two. then, one between two conscious being 
Religion imposes transcendent values 
neither of whom can be free as long as on a life otherwise devoid of them. Since 
the other is conscious. (For that other a woman is unable to express herself 
consciousness denies the objectivity a through action in the world she is forced 
subject must impose on the other to to create her own transcendent values. 
define itself and assert its own subjec­The love of a god (as the love of a man) is 
tivity) It is the woman who is forced by the woman's attempt to transcend her 
the concerted efforts of society to sacri­present position. She strives for some­
fice her subjectivity in lieu of the man's. thing to raise herself out of time and to 
Once the woman's position is estab­unite her with something universal and lished she is forced to glorify her ignom­absolute. She has been convinced to see 
iny. She becomes an idol and daims pride man as superior to herself and so seeks to 
in that status. She applies magical terms raise herself, through love, to union with 
to herself, considers herself a fascinating the man. She finds this to be the most 
and mysterious entity. The woman must complete solitude. She must accept her maintain this illusion because it is the dependence. They are not equals and love basis of her appeal. She finds herslef 
may well be impossible. involved in an unbalanced situation. The Economic independence is a necessity. basic inequality lies in the fact tghat the •The woman will then need no mediator husband finds self realization in his work. 
between herself and the world. Woman is still striving to be an autonomous humanHe at least has that opportunity, that 
choice. being. Before she can enter a relationship 
For the woman that liberty has strictly with some semblance of equality that 
negative connotations. The world threat­basic transformation of consciousness is 
ens her. In the home she is safe and necessary. Creativity is impossible if there 
adored. She cannot concretely realize is no personal and particular motivating 
goals for she is not in the world. The force from which it can spring. 
emphasis of her life is on security. Even­Until a basic change can be effected in 
tually her existence becomes a series of 
a woman's consciousness of herself, there machinations to maintain that security 
will be no point in addressing ourselves and to keep her appeal. Clothes may merely to those institutions which 
become a value measure, both to keep her 
oppress her. The restructuring of those appeal for the men who justify her 
institutions both emanates from and 
existence and to give herself some scm­
inspires her transformation of conscious­blance of personal pride. Her clothes are 
ness. The liberation of women is the most 
her means, as Simone de Beauvoir points basic of the liberation movements. Until 
out, of shaping her outer and inner it has achieved some measure of successworlds. 
there can be no hope for reforming other 'Fhe media tells her that she is some-aspects of society. It is on this strugglething to be acquired. As a desirable object that other struggles must be based. Those she is valuable vfor selling other products. 
problems which are responsible for the Her definition in purely sexual terms oppression of women are all in some waybecomes more blatant here. The man's related to structures which exist as a part ego, his role as possessor and aggressor, is of our society. It is these structures which called to the fore. To be a man is to must be dealt with and not the isolated 
possess. the type of woman the media results. 
esgablishes as desirable. And to possess Women will gain nothing in a struggleher it is necessary to own a certain car or merely with sexual constraints which a certain after shave lotion which
to use have been forced upon them. These are 
h' Th' t · f
the media is pus mg. IS same s ram o.-the superficial ,results of more complexprofits determines the ads aimed at the 
problems. Only an effort stemming from housewife. Technology has made the role 
a solid political idealogy can be effective. of housewife one where the woman is no 
Women are not interested in functioninglonger constantly occupied. Concerns 
in a male society. The struggle for the must be invented to occupy her. She 
liberation of women is one side of a must have no time to consider her posi­men
struggle which involves and women tion. She must be convinced that is she is 
working on an equal basis for survivaL to be a good mother she must buy certain 
For all the neuroses engendered in brands of toilet paper and breakfast 
women by their conditioning there are cereal. And if she is to be a good wife she corresponding neuroses in the men whom 
must look like that woman the media they inhabit the world. We are interested 
establishes. 

in a vast and radical restructuring of The woman is plagued by situations society, beginning with the family struc­where she must define herself in negative 
ture. Only in this radical rearranging and terms. Often she makes no attempt to 
reordering can men and women hope to define through action. And so she is a
encounter one another in healthy and always aware of some irritating and neb­
complementary way. And it is in these ulous potential within herself. She has 
basic structural changes that all other little connection with the world because 
liberation efforts will find their fruition. 

Hesburgh's Studebaker victim of attack 
mdustriously in pursuit of the vehicle's 
owner. The anonymous caller didn't give 
An anonymous phone call was received hint of whose car was attacked, so being 
early tuesday morning by the night staff the just crew they are, the staH im­
of the Observer. The caller identified mediately called the ever alert nite secu­
himself as a member of the Notre Dame rity guards. The campus crime fighters 
Liberation Front. He revealed the sinister were unable to give any assistance in 
crime the Front had used in a vicious tracing the auto's ownership, this being 
attack on Father Hesburgh's 1966 Stude­due to the mere fact that it did not 
baker. possess a window sticker. 
Upon learning this the staff suggested 
The car while parked in front of the he guard contact the South Bend police 
administration building was savagely at­department. He did not want to call the 
tacked by the members, with damage South Bend police because they are "fun­
being limited to three odd tires, which ny about things such as these." 
were suffering from lack of air. The car's identity was traced to Fr. 
The Observer staff, being constantly Hesburgh, who was immediately notified 
aware of newsworthy material, moved of such a leftist assault. 
PAGE 6 THURSDAY, MARCH 19,1970
THE OBSERVER. 

~J{ousc of Yt"sioa3"'. letters to the Editor---

Crcftsmen in Optics 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGL~SSES 

cism of ROTC stemmed from a 
AND CONTACT LENf.ES --The following is clarifying a 
misconception of the idea of a
statement attributed to Tom
TIIH SliER LAND BLnG. 

university. I likened this position 
Lang which was in an article
132 S. MICHIGAN ST. 

to that which would get rid of
written bv Mark Day in Mon­
Central 2-1468 the College of Business Ad­
days paper. The article was a 
ministration because it allegedly
report of a meeting on military 
teaches one "to do, and not to 
~J(~JUSe oJ ViSion 3nc· 

obligation which was a part of 
think or know." Never at any
Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.-· Chicago the Junior Parents Weekend ac-
time did I state or even imply
1-----------------~------------J tivities. 



OBSERVER 
STAFF MEETING 
4:30 


Friday 

In the office 

that these charges were true, especially with respect to ROTC. In fact, I recall implying that they were unwarranted. 
Editor: Sincerely, 
Mr. Day wrote: "He also de­Thomas Lang fended ROTC on campus, saying 250 Dillon that, like engineering and Bus­iness Administration, it teaches how to do, not to think." Now 
Editor:if I really was defending ROTC I find the recent statements in 

why would I say a damning 
The Observer by Mr. Peter 
thing like that? Actually, I was Dubois to be a particularly sa­explaining that I felt such criti­lient example of the irresponsi­ble sophisms fashionably put forth as meaningful comments on important political and social problems. Of special interest is his statement in the March 15 Observer concerning the selling of a local building for the relief of Biafran war victims. His ra­tionale is this: "So long as we give charity instead of ourselves we are saving the victims of the world with our right hands and murdering them with our left." 
Leaving aside the question of the misty-eyed liberal maso­chism that this type of mani­festo implies, one might ask Mr. Dubois: a) in just what way is the giving of money obtained by hocking a church building not charity, and how does this money substantially differ from money raised by other means; b) is giving money ever truly giving "ourselves", assuming that one would wish not to cling to the traditional American ethic "pay as you pray"; c) since when does the rather serious indictment of murder, even if used in hyper­bole, follow from the premise that charity is suffering from a deficiency of "giving of our­selves"; d) how do you save someone and murder them at the same time? 
These criticisms are in no way intended to apologize for the terrific obtuseness of most of us in regards to less fortunate peo­ple than ourselves. It seems to me, however, that gratuitous statements and moral posturing of this kind do little to further advance the spiritual and mental enlightenment of the hardened or the neglectful. It is only rhetoric. One suspects that this is the kind of language referred to by Robert Brustein in the last issue of the "New Republic" as the language of "cocktail party revolutionaries," that is, passion­ate language spoken "against a background of institutional safety." Notre Dame is a very 
safe institution. 
Sincerely, 
Thomas M. Booker 
Zahm Hall 
Zinn to speak 
Howard Zinn, author of Dis­obedience and Democracy, will speak in the Engineering Audi­torium Thursday at 8:00. The topic of Zinn's speech is "The Necessity of Disobedience". 
Zinn 's book Disobedience and Democracy, is an answer to Ahe Fortas' treatise entitled Concern-­ing Dissent and Civil Disobe­dience, which, is in Zinn's opin­ion, contains nine hasic fallacies. 
Zinn was a leader in the civil 
rights movement and is presently 
engaged in the draft resistance 
movement. · · · 
Presently, Zmn is a professor of government at Boston Univer·· sity. The speech is sponsored by The Program for the Study and Practise of the Non violent Re­solution of Human Conflict. 
Friday 
Classical 
Music at 


America 
9:00PM F!a111zer Basement 
(Not Open Saturday) 

PAGE 7

THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 1970 THE OBSERfllR. 

Large crowd expected for Kunstler address 
(Cimlinlled from page 3) d 
tend the speech hut expected no trouble. 
"We haven't made any special ~ecurity precaution~ at all," McDonough said."We really don't think there will he a need for it. We feel the students will have enough integrity not to disrupt the lecture or cause any violent:e. There will he no re­strictions on the audience." 
The Academic Commission has received no official word as yet from Kunstler as to lht: topic of his speed! hut it is helieved that he will address himself to the question of justice in the contemporary American court­room. K u nstler's background in­cludes work in the civil rights and free speech movements, re­presenting such groups as the CORE Freedom Riders, The Catholic Draft Protestors in Mil­waukee and Baltimore, The Southern Christian Leadership Conference, the Mississippi Free­dom Democratic Party, and the Hlack Panthers. 
Kunsller also argued the fa­mous case that declared de facto segrega lion unconstitutional in Washington DC schools. He lists 
TONIGHT The Servant of Two Masters 
by Carlo Goldini 
an italian comedy also Friday and Saturday at 8:30PM Sunday at 2:30 PM little Theatre at Saint Mary's Stu dent tickets $1.00 Call 284-4141 or 284-4176 

among  his  more  notable  past  Jerry Ruhin, and Jack Ruby.  largest  audience  of the year to  
Jr.,  US  Rep.  Adam  Clayton  attend the speech. The price will  
clients  Dr.  Marlin  Luther  King  M c Dono ugh  said  the  be $1.00 for adults and $.50 for  
Pow ell,  Stokley  Carmichael,  Commission  was  expecting  the  students.  



Sam Thong fighting continues 
(UPI)-Reliahle military sources said fighting yesterday was reported still going on in the outskirts of Sam Thong, the U.S. refugee and logistic hase about 15 miles north of Vientiane. 
AI the same lime, the sources said LaoI ian officials are still trying to sort out confused re­ports which indicated Sam Thong fell during the night to North Vietnamese forces. 
Sam Thong is only six miles from Long Cheng, the main Daotian military headquarters for the Meo tribesmen army commanded by Gen. Yang Pao. The sources said Long Cheng appeared to be the major objec­tive of the Communist forces 
which  have  pushed  down  from  
the Plain of 1ars.  
Official  sources  said  radio  
contact  with  Sam  Thong  was  

lost about noon Wednesday but there were reports of at least 
two battles between government and Communist forces immediately east of the U.S. hospital there. The hospital was evacuated earlier and the last four American officials were flown out Tuesday. 
"We don't know exactly where things stand at this point," one official source said. He said the hospital at Sam Thong was not burned as report­ed earlier hut that a warehouse 

ND, SMC Freshmen, Sophs 
Theology " Meet your Major Night" 7PM Friday March 20 356 Madeleva Hall 
ND-SMC Joint Program m Theology and Religious Studies 
nearby was on fire Wednesday morning. 
One report said government wounded had been taken to hos­pitals at Long Cheng and else­where but gave no figures. The sources said the North Viet­namese and Communist Pathet Lao had at least seven bat­talions-an estimated 4,200 troops-in the area and that Sam Thong was hit by about 2,000. 
MAO-FUNNY-SAD LETTERS?­
Have you received a "classic" 
letter from home (Parental an­xiety, wisdom, advice about sex, politics, lifestyle, etc.)? We'd like it for a social-psyctl project. An· onymity guaranteed! Send to Let­ters, 1125 Mcintyre, Ann Arbor, Michigan. 


HIGH SCHOOL BAND COMPETITION 13 Bands from All over Indiana 
Saturday-9:00AM to 4:00PM Washington llall Admission $.25 

8:00PM CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION CJF Judges Discuss the jazz-rock controversy 
Admission Free 
A Service ofStudent Union Social Commission 
~~~~~------------------------------· 
PAGE 8 
THURSDAY, MARCH 19. 1970

THE O&rERJJDl. 

Bengal Bouts head towrds finals 
by Jack Schaefer 
"Observer Sports Writer 
Bengal Bouts: Semi-final Round. 
The semi-final· rounds of the 1970 Bengal Bouts were fought last night in ACC. The winners of last nights fights will meet Friday night to determine the championships in all nine divi­
I7S lbs. Matt Connelly defeat­ed Kevin Howard-split decision Bob Minnix defeated Chuck Nightingale-unanimous decision 
Heavyweight Dennis Allan de­feated Tom Davis-TKO 1:00 of 2nd round · 
Bill Etter defeated Chris Bale­unanimous decision 
The night's closest fight was between Matt Connelly, a highly regarded fighter, and Kevin Howard. Connelly won a well-deserved split decision but Howard was very strong in the end. Neither of the 17S pound­ers gave an inch. The other 17S lbs. semi-final pitted two foot­ball players against one another. Bob Minnex, who possesses great quickness and a strange over the head style, defeated tough Chuck Nightingale. 

Heavyweight Denny Allan (starting halfback on the foot­ball team) knocked down Tom Davis twice in route to his 
technical knockout win in the second round of their fight. Allan will face fellow backfield star Bill Etter in the heavyweight final. Etter defeated bearded Chris Bale by the slimmest of margins to gain entry into the championship fight. 
sions. 




waits for verdict 
I2S lbs. Jack Griffin defeated Jack Griffin and Ed Ferrer 
Larry Semerad-unanimous de­given to the March of Dimes and
were both exceptionally strong LAKELAND, Fla. (UPI) -better. He knows some of the a third of the funds turned over

cision in their I 2S lbs. bouts. Griffin is Denny Mclain gets the sad news mistakes he made and keeps to a program in Detroit set up toEd Ferrer defeated Jerry thr type of fighter who just trying to find out the reasons for fight drug addiction.
Bradley-unanimous decision keeps coming while Ferrer relies pretty soon now. 
Probably inside the next 10 them. McLain is no dummy. He McLain is strapped for fundsmainly on his speed and de­has a good IQ. 
13S lbs. Terry Kurth defeated ception. Terry Kurth's victory in days. Bowie Kuhn, the baseball now and could've used the 
commissioner, has been con­A few weeks ago a group of money. Some people wondered
Ralph Bianco-unanimous deci-the 13S lbs. class was pretty ferring with the Justice Depart­people in Detroit began taking why he turned it over to charitysion clear cut, but Tom Gould just
Phil ment regularly since suspending up a collection for McLain. and he answers that question
Tom Gould defeated barely got by a tough Phil Dollard -Split decision Dollard. Paul Partyka, pound for McLain a month ago. Kuhn has a When he found out about it, he this way: 
strong sense of fairness and called them, told them how "Whatever difficulty I'm inpound probably the best boxer responsibility. He doesn't want much he appreciated what they now resulted from my using bad 14S lbs. Paul Partyka defeated in the bouts, downed a scrappy to keep either McLain or the had done and asked them to judgment. I did it myself andJim Smith in one of the 14S lbs. 
Jim Smith-unanimous decision please turn the money over to
baseball public on the hook too figure I have to get out of itfights. In the other, Tom Suddes
Tom Suddes defeated Tom long. He wants to get all the charity. McLain directed part of myself. My wife and I were very
Sykes-unanimous decision defeated southpaw Tom Sykes. 
facts and by now he has most of the money be channeled to the moved by the people who took
In one of the closer fights Mike them. Catholic Social Services of Oak­up that collection for me so we
McNicholas overcame ChrisISO lbs. Mike McNicholas Miller, a fighter who just McLain may draw a year's land County in Michigan, the sat down and thought of what defeated Chris Miller-unanimous 

decision wouldn't quit. McNicholas will suspension, possibly even two, organization from which he and we could best do with the face Kevin Kerrigan, who beat~ and no matter what the penalty his wife, Sharyn, adopted their money. We decided finally.
Kevin Kerrigan defeated is, he'll certainly be on proba­two boys; another oortion hP That's why I gave it back."
Aaron Baker, for the ISO lbs.

Aaron Baker-unanimous deci­
tion afterward. If Kuhn has un­
championship. Dave Pemberton 
covered any evidence at all of
fought an extremely close bout 
bet baseball 

sion McLain having on UCI.A takes favorite role info
with Jim Hansen and just barely

ISS lbs. Gary Canori defeated games then Dennis is a goner.
pulled out the fight. Pemberton

Mark Rukavina-unanimous de· He'll be set down for life. 
will face Gary Canori for the 

tourney semi -finals tonight
cision Meanwhile, McLain keeps
ISS lbs. title. 

Dave Pemberton defeated Jim waiting for Kuhn's decision at phins are favored against the Hansen-unanimous decision 
BiU McGrath, another real his home here. He'll be 26 on COLLEGE PARK, Md. (UP!) Bonnies because of the Joss of good fighter, kept moving on March 29, Easter Sunday, and -"We're in good shape physi­All-America Bob Lanier through Tom Loughren in winning their rather hopefully he says: "That's cally, mentally and emotionally. a knee injury.
160 lbs. Bill McGrath defeat-, the day of the Resurrection, We're a realistic, honest team.
160 lbs. fight. Roland Chamblee Coach Joe Williams said at aed Tom Loughren-unanimous 
and Ed Carney were both isn't it? But my players feel that every round-robin telephone news con­decision bleeding when the fight was McLain never has ventured team left can win it." ference that his Jacksonville Dol­Roland Chamblee defeated tid over, but Chamblee was bleeding any kind of guess on how long Coach John Wooden ap­phins weren't taking their semi­Carney-unanimous decision 
less and he gets to meet McGrath he'll be out. If he's suspended praised the chances of his de­final foe, St. Bonaventure, in the final. Cool Chris Servant for any length of time though fending champion UCLA team lightly even though the Bonnies16S lbs. Chris Servant defeat­he'll most likely accept some of in these words yesterday as the
beat a stubborn Dan Johndrow lack the services of Lanier.
ed Dan Johndrow-unanimous 
in one of the 16S I bs. rna tches. the offers he has had to play the four finalists for the NCAA bas­St. Bonaventure Coach Larrydecision And in the other, which was a organ in various cities around ketball championship gathered Weise suggested the only way his
Jed Ervin defeated Mark 
the countrv. for the pressure-pit collegiate team could cope with the heightwild affair, Jed Ervin outpointedMcGowan-unanimous decision McLain looks back now and title playoff at the University of of the Dolphins was "bring moreMark McGowan. 
can unclPr~t~nrl ~ lot of things Maryland. stepladders." 
The Bruins come to the finals New Mexico State Coach Lou bidding for an unprecedented Henson praised defending cham­
Heminger on. Moravich 

fourth straight NCAA title with pion UCLA as almost as strong were going to lose." Thursday night's semifinals, said the semifinal Thursday against a as last year when the Bruins wonNEW YORK (UPI) -Pete Pete's father, Press, the LSU he was "looking forward to the strong New Mexico State aggre­their third straight NCAAMaravich had a unique problem 
assignment." gation their first test.
coach, agreed with his son's ap­crown.
Tuesday night-thinking. 
"l heard a lot about him and The winner of that battle goes "rm not sure we're superior
praisal and had more to add.

"I was thinking out there," 
I've read a lot about him," said into Saturday's finals against the to them in any category or any"Our defense is so bad, insaid Maravich, "and it hurt me. 
victor of the Jacksonville-St.
fact, we have no defense at all. Meminger. ''I'd like to see how phase of the game," Henson said I'm no good when I think on the 
I'll do against him." Bonaventure contest. The Dol-
We choked. We should have won of his opponent.
court. I have to play like an by 3S points the way we domi­animal -instinctively -to be nated play. They make me sick."
effective." 

Ruggers optimistic after first win
The LSU coach said he ex­Maravich did prove effective pected "plenty of trouble" fromenough to boost his Louisiana 

a Marquette team that played "This appears to be the There are a wealth of veterans
State team into the 33rd Na­John Dostal, Tom Curnes,
almost flawlessly in ousting strongest squad since the '66-'67 returning for the spring season
tional Invitation Tourr.ament "Mean Gene" Tidgewell, Tony
Utah. club." These were the words and according to Paterni the
semifinals Thursday night. 
"I got my kids back on the with which Notre Dame Rugby team should have a lot of depth. Kennell, Don McDermott, JimDespite a fever and a severe ground," said Marquette wach Club President Mike Paterni The fifteen men comprising the Butler, Bill Choquette, Peteintestinal disorder, Maravich, the Hartney, Rich Campagna, Jim
AI McGuire. "They were so busy described this spring's delegation "A" squad (or first team) are:
leading scorer in college basket­Merlitti, Tim Strandring, Jim
congratulating themselves and of "ruggers." Anyone who was Hooker, Paterni; Props, Gary
ball history, hit for 37 points to telling themselves how good around du Lac at that time Gleason and Mike Morrison; Urban, Chu<.:k Leggeiro and Boblift the Tigers over stubborn Fries.
they were, they almost got would know that this is no small Second Row, Chuck Petrowski
Oklahoma 97-94. 
knocked off the court by Massa­compliment. The ruggers of that and Tom Hughes; Hind Brace, This spring's squad has im­LSU will meet Marquette, an Charlie Schmidt; Loose for­proved "400',Yc.'' over last fall's.
chusetts in the first round. We year and the one preceding iteasy 83-63 winner over Utah got back to our game tonight have be<.:ome a myth to many of wards (very "loose" according to The team morale is great and onTuesday night, in one of Thurs­and things worked out well." the upperclassmen. the president), Charlie Blum and most afternoons there are aboutday night's semifinals. Army and Dean Meminger, Marquette's The Irish will once again <.:om· Dave Fleming; Serum Half, Tom 40 men out on the Stepan Cen­St. John's will play in the other 6-foot junior guard, scored 28 pete in the rugged Midwest Gould or Mark Rubinelli (regular ter fields for practice. As Paterni game. Finals and consolation points and was menacing on Rugby Union (comprised of Skip Gilmartin is injured); Fly stated, "We have a lot of goodgames are scheduled for Satur­defense as the Warriors con­many Big Ten schools and a few Half, Bob Monaghan; Inside Cen­boys hack and an undefeatedday afternoon. 

tained Utah's high-scoring Mike independents). The ruggers have ter, Sal Bommareito; Outside season isn't out of the q ues­Maravich, who hit on only 14 Newlin and broke the game wide already begun their seven game Center, Tom Herlihy; Wings, Bill tion." If the ruggers <.:an pull thisof 33 shots and was nearly I 0 open early in the se<.:ond half. regular season schedule by drub­Berry and Ken Kerr.; and Full off, perhaps some of the mythspoints below his season average "That's the best defense and bing lndi;mapolis Rugby Club back Jim Hagenbarth. about the old squads mightof 46.7 per game, was blunt in swit<.:h over to the present-day
the best team we've played 22-0 in the "A" match and 16-0 Fifteen others make up a 
his self appraisal. "I stunk, I 
against all year," said Utah by the "B's". After the regular tough "B" group. They include Irish. 
stunk again." said the mop­Coach Jack Gardner. "They season the Irish will attempt tohaired guard. "I wasn't doing chase you out of everything you take top honors for the confer­too much right out there to­want to do. l don't see anyone ence when they lake part in thenight. l was pleased we won but in this tournaml'nt beating Mar­Midwest Tourney on May S.
I thought surer than hell we 
quette." After th<~t, the N D representa­were going to lose. In fact, we've Meminger, who will be as­tives will head cast to competewon two ball games I swore we signed to stop Maravich in in the Virginia Tourney. 


1 





