-~------~---------------------------------------­

-:V-:-o_L_v..:.._N-:o:--._13------:::--:----:::::----...:S;:.;e::.:.rv.:.::.in:!lg~th.::e~M~o:.:t::..:re::......:D::.:a::n.:.:z.:;.e...:a:.:'.:.:ld:...:;:S::::a::.il.:.:lt_:_:M:.:a:.:..r:~l'..::'s_C~o::.lle::_:g~e:__::(:.:.:'o::.:m::.:n::.:I:_::U~II:!;it:.:_Y:.._ _____________Ft;r~id~a~v~. Sept. ~5~ 
Americans Being E"ocuoted 
NEW CEASE FIRE SOUGHT 
ental for the flight out was
(UPI) -The governing body organizations, the newspaper Convair 990 arrived in Beirut ies. Robert J. MacCloskey, the of the Palestinian guerrillas said. with about 65 Americans and spokesman, said the VOA broad­stopped during the night for Thursday called for a 24 hour The United States chartered a other refugees. A State Depart­cast would be continued and security reasons, and that many 
cease fire in the Jordanian Civil Lebanese Middle East Airlines ment spokesman in Washington another plane is standing by. Americans may not have heard War, the semi-official Cairo jet liner for a civilian airlift to said a Voice of America broad­The chartered Convair 990 the radio advisories. newspaper AI Ahram reported. avoid Soviet and Arab charges of cast repeatedly advising Ameri­arrived in Beitut with about 65 Robert 1. Mac Closkey, the The United States and Britain "military intervention" in the cans in Amman to report to ~the Americans and other refugees. A spokesman, said the VOA broad­began evacuating their nationals fighting in which thousands of Hotel Inter-Continental for the State Department spokesman in cast would be continued and and other civilians from J or day Arab civilians, soldiers and guer­flight out was stopped during Washington said a Voice of another plane is standing by in under mortar fire. rillas have been reported killed the night for security reasons, America broadcast repeatedly Beirut to fly to Amman, proba­
AI Ahram said in its Friday and wounded and thousands and that many Americans may advising Americans in Amman to bly on Friday. There are about morning edition that the more threatened by famine and not have heard the radio advisor-report to the Hotellnter-Contin-continued 3 Palestinian Central Committee, disease. the highest ranking Palestinian In Cairo, the Middle East body, asked Arab heads of state . News Agency reported that the 
currently meeting in Cairo to Premier of Jordan's military gov­visit Jordan during the proposed ernment, Brig. Mohammed truce and hold consultations Daoud, had resigned and was with guerrilla chief Y asser missing from his hotel in the' Arafat. Egyptian capital, where he had 
The newspaper said the com­gone for an Arab summit meet­mittee called for the cease fire ing on the Jordanian crisis. after meeting for several hours The Egyptian agency said a Thursday in emergency session copy of a letter to King Hussein in Damascus, Syria. The meeting announdng Daoud's resignation was attended by 15 delegates was found in the premier's room representing all major Palestinian at the Nile Hilton.' The chartered 
Co-exchange Program Increases Participation 
basis. Participants were approved by Don Ruane after being screened by Arts and 
The upward surge of students Letters Assistant Dean Robert participating in the co-exchange Waddick. During the fall semes­program continued this year as ter 44 women and 52 men par­close to 2,000 Notre Dame and ticipated. St. Mary's students registered for Sullivan also released the 
Se11ate Fate Uncer~~ain 
the fall semester. figures for each fall semester 
in a referendum. to get along with each other. 
Assistant registrar Richard J. since 1965. They are: 1966, 126 by Ed Ellis Krashna also said that the Vice-President Mark WiningsSullivan said yesterday that women, 60 men; 1967, 216 Constitutionl!l Revision Commit­reaffirmed Krashna's indecision,women, 53 men; 1968, 252 According to Student Bodyl ,969 students are taking a tee, which met five times last saying that with all the activitywomen, 140 men and 1969, 767 President Dave Krashna, his ad­conbined total of 3,153 courses year to seek a solution to the of the beginning of the year,
ministration is
at the two institutions. There are women, 599 men. administration restructuring of Student Govern­plans were still pretty unsettled.
not yet certain whether they will
l ,204 Notre Dame men enrolled The trend of more SMC stu­ment, would not meet again.
dents than Notre Dame students seek an abolition of the Studentin 1,711 courses at St. Mary's Stay Senators Tom Thrasher,
was caused by the required Senate, a promise he made dur­CPA Memberswhile 765 SMC undergraduates Fred Cruffrida and Russ Stone, are getting instruction in 1442 screening and the programs's ing the SBP election campaign said that theyhad been kept 
Strike Against
Notre Dame courses. limitation to juniors and seniors. last year. 
"completely in the dark" by the
Krashna said that in the next

Sullivan noted that the total "In 1969 we had a wide open administration and had no idea 

Kaywoc,d Corp
number of courses is in terms of registration and opened the pro­two weeks, either Senate elect­what Krashna is planning.
the number of courses registered gram to freshmen," said Sullivan ions will be held or a new Twenty members of the Notre
Thrasher pointed out that refer­to individual students. explaining the rocketing number Student Government Constitut­endum proced,ures were very Dame Coalition for Political Ac­The co-ex program began in of registrants in the last two ion, without a Senate, will be stringent, requiring 60 pe'r cent tion have reportedly joined strik­
years. presented to the Student Body
the fall of 1965 on a limited of the student body to vote in ing workers of IUE local 940 on such an election. Krashna admit­a picket line at the Kaywood ted that such requirements made Corporation in Benton Harbor, passage of such a referendum 
Michigan.



RAP Appoints Andrus 
According to information re­leased to the Observer by the difficult, but said that he would 
do his best to institute his pro­by Joe Griffin students, according to Andrus. The final facet of Andrus' gram anyway. CPA on Wednesday, about 130 
people are employed at the plantThrough these visits they hope 
four point plan involves the revi­Thrasher also said that he Student Government recently to get a better insight into what val of the hall fellows program hoped the Krashna administra­and have been on strike for nine weeks over de:mands for im­
announced the appointment of the stud<ent wants from student to an active status in all dorms. tion was rtot contemplating un­
proved wages and benefits, costEric Andrus to the post of Hall government. These visits will This would involve each hall consti.tutional action. "This of living increases, and a fullyoccur periodically throughout
Life Commissioner, replacing asking four to six faculty mem­year," he said, "it seems that all funded pension plan. 
Lee Forte, who resigned and the school year, Andrus announ­bers to be a hatH fellows. Then, of us ought to be doing our best Notre Dame students carried
Carl Ellison to the position of ced. on a weekly b.asis the students signs and handed out leaflets in assistant commissioner of the The second idea involves the would meet, eat, and talk with 
Recruitment Action Program N.D. students giving their seats their fellows. Hoase approves an attempt to discourage strike­
(RAP). for the N.D. -Georgia Tech breakers from entering the plant, To achieve better communica­game to some of the underprivi­Ellison, new .assistant head of d......... ,, CPA announced. 
tion between the student govern­leged of South Bend. The idea of RAP, said that their program CPA spokesman Bill Golden using student tickets for non­was based on sending members Wobocli ..pt stated, " We hope that by relat­
ment and the students, Andrus said the commission has repre­students is reported to have be~n of the commission into ing to the IUE workers struggle
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The 
okayed with the ticket office. inner-city high schools to we can disprove the lie perpe­
sentatives, usually a hall officer, House overwhelmingly approved 
in all Andrus said that he hoped he acquaint the minority student trated by the bourgeois media
the dorms. The represen­President Nixon's drug abuse bill 
tative has the responsibility could get the woperation of a with the pros and cons of a that all radicals are bomb-throw­
Thursday after upholding a bit­
Notre Dame education. If a stu­ing lunatics. Spiro Agnew, speak­
of informing the hall memberS couple thousand N.D.-S.M.C. terly fought "no knock" pro­
students. If successful, he said dent is interested, they encour­ing for the U.S. ruling class,
of the student government's vision that would allow federal 
that the idea might be tried age him to take his CEEB tests would have us see the workers as
moves, and sending ideas and agents to break into homes un­
complaints from the students to again during basketball season. and to get his application in our enemies and vice-versa, but
announced to seize evidence. 
the student government. Andrus' third idea involves early to be in contention for we're hip to these divisive tac­
The bill, a key measure in 
establishing an interhall newslet­financial aid. Ellison said that tics."
As the new commissioner, An­Nixon's anti-crime package was 
drus said that he has four main ter. He said that this would let this program would be con­expected to win early accep­The Observer contacted Mr. projects. each hall know what the other ducted on a nationwide scale. Robert Beckman, General Mana­
tance by the Senate, which 
Within the next week the SBP halls are doing. It would develop Ellison also plans the. distribu-ger of the Kaywood Corporation 
passed a similar but more limited in Benton Harbor. He refused toand SBVP will be visiting every an exchange of ideas and hope 
continued qn page 6 continued on page 3 comment on the matter.
hall individually to meet the to get some ideas started. 



Friday. Sept. 25, 1970 
Budweiser. 
KINO OP ...... 
~·-...~~--"'-·
~W~.L-MUJ.&.t~ 
THE LARrlST-mtlfl IHR It THE MD 
~-~~ 
ST. LOUIS NEWARK LOS ANGELES TAMPA HOUSTON 
Knock the Steam out of the Boiler 



Budweiser® 
KINO OP: BI!I!NS 
!fl~ 4-~ ~pt.ouMfon, ~ ~.w-o/)d'~mu.t$~~.a6 
THE lARGEST-SElLING BEER IN THE WORLD 
~-f7d~~ 
ST. LOUIS NEWARK LOS ANGELES TAMPA HOUSTON 
Prof. Edward Goerner 



Profs discuss recess 
by John Sinnwell wish to have a decision made for shouldn't force people to make them. An element of intimida­the decision between reflection A small group of students tion might be here in this issue and action. If they were excited, tu~ed out Wednesday night to because of the public pressure of and it is funny thatthe students 
discuss the Princeton Plan. the university at large." aren't, it is still not right to stop them."
About 15 students met with Professor Goerner said that he Kommers raised the question
discussion leaders, Prof. Edward felt "it was a sensible type of if whether or not "one canGoerner and Prolf. Donald Kom-thing to do, to have a recess for undertake the act of learning in. 
mers, in the Farley Hall loungd. the national election campaign." 
an environment of excitement.
Both professors of the Govern-He voiced support for the pre­We need to realize the different
ment Department said that they sent proposal as stated by the styles of excitement. I'm all forwere disappointed at the turn-university's Academic Council debate, but it must be held in a
out. because "it calls for the make-up manner of a Socratic dialogue."
Kommers said that this was of all class time lost by the Professor Kommers was critic­the "greatest reversal I've ever recess." 
seen in just four months. When al of the referedum voting Princeton proposed the plan, "lf one wishes to rearrange procedure. He com men ted that the calendar," Goener said, "be­the Academic Council's decision
everyone grabbed it; and n?w this small turn-out is a clear sign gin the first semester every year to require an absolute majority after November for a
of the lack of enthusiasn." the elections. a successful yes vote was Kommers said that he is op­This is just pushing the Prince­"poor decision because an ab­ton Plan to its sane conclusion." sent majority is a poor con­
posed to the Plan because "Wh~t would you do'!Would the poli­(~oerner felt that "you stituency." ticians be receptive to your of­fers of help? What could be done in these two weeks? It doesn't bot her me if ~tudents want to go 
Rome program opens 
on strike, but if the University as Although the program is in its a corporate body considers a Next Week classes will offic­first year, it is rapidly becomingshut-down, that is another issue. ially begin at St. Mary's new one of the most popular studyNo one can interfere with the Rome campus. 

programs on campus,. according right of the student at attend The Twenty-five SMC and to Sr. Alma, C.S.C., acting presi­
classes." twenty-nine Notre Dame stu­dent of St. Mary's and head of"1 wouldn't want the univer-dents will start classes Oct. I. 
the program.
sity as a corporate body," _Kom-The group left New York Sept. 
"The popularity of the pro­mers continued,"to commit me. 12 and spent 10 days in Paris. 
gram speaks for itself," statedMost people object to the idea After they arrived in Rome, they Sister. "One hundred studentsof a shut-down because it seems participated in an intensified are presently enrolled in Italian I like a steam-roller. They don't course in the Italian language. . 
on both campuses (Notre Dame and St. Mary's.) Most of the students expect to apply for the

r>==«~:;;=;~~-~,, 
September 1971 program." 
As director of foreign study programs, she and Sr. Catherine Tobin, C.S.C., resident director
SUNDAY MASSES 
in Rome, planned th~.: program last year. The programs affords students the opportunity to spend week­8:30 a.m. Fr. Thomas McNally, C.S.C. end and vacations travelling to 
9:45 a.m. i=r. Ernest Bartell, C.S.C. different European centers. These trips, however, are not
11:00 a.m. Fr. James Burtchaell, C.S.C. 
made under the auspices of the
12:15 a.m. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
school and, consequently, are not included in the fees. 
For the second semester, cost includes $1500 (room-board-tui­tion) and approximately $250 for round-trip air fare. Expenses
~:*Note': No 5:15 p.m. Mass on hutne football Sat,miays;:;: 
for one year total $3250. Two buildings house the cam­pus in the center of the city. 
continued Ofl page fi 
.......==«*"""''"'"""'"""''''"''""''"'""""'j 
Judging Hall Displays 
Pep .Rally 
.. Biaclcouf" Dance with 
the Neighbothood 


HOMECOMING 
"safehouse" 

Army G•m• Free Fo• Concert Concert 
Get Your G./. Buttons 
Friday, Sept. 25, 1970
Page 3 


Planeload of U.S. refugees arr1ve 1n Beirut 
continued from page I 
400 Americans in Jordan. 
Most of the passengers aboard the U.S. Chartered plane were women and children. Airline sources said they included 12 
U.S. Embassy staff and between 15 and 20 other Americans, nine Indians, seven Chinese, six Britons, three Lebanese as well as other nationalities. 

when we took off. We couldn'tMaj. Richard Alt, of Fort see where the fire was comingWayne, Ind., an embassy attache from but we heard it."
in Amman who flew out with Lana Mardi, daughter of athe first plane load of refugees, Jordanian civil servant, said, "We said "They were mortaring were loaded on the plane andaround the airport at Amman 

then rocket firing started. They took us all off and sheltered us 
until it died down. Then we went aboard again."

Stiff penalty for drugs 
would allow narcotics agents
continued from page I 

with warrant3 to enter private bill several months ago. The premises unannounced if they House vote was 341 to 6. felt there was danger of evidence 
Both bills would provide stif­being destroyed or risk to their fer penalties for pushers, includ­lives. ing a possible life sentence for Administration forces beat those involved in organized back an attempt to kill the "no crime, but would reduce the knock" provision on a 119-60 punishment for first offense nonrecord vote. possession of any drug from a Another controversial pro­felony to a misdemeanor. posal that was added to the bill 
The "no knock" provision on the floor would allow judges 
Senior Fellow nominations 
The selection process of the 1 971 Senior Class Fellow A ward is under way as the Senior Fel­lows Committee members pre­pare for next week's initial nom­inations by the student body. The selection process will con­clude sometine in March when the recipient comes to Notre Dame. 
The Senior Class Fellow A­ward was created in 1968 in lieu of the patriot of the year award because of the controversy in­volved in defining patriotism. The purpose of the fellow award as stated by Rich Linquanti is "to bring to the University, and senior class, for a period of time, a man of interest who personally offers something to Jearn. The recipient of the award will come to Notre Dame for two to four days and hold a major lecture as well as a number of informal meetings with seniors. The two previous winners have been Sen­ator Eugene McCarthy and Re­presentative Allard K. Lowen­stein. 
Next Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, students will be al­-lowed to nominate anyone of their choice. The members of rhe selection committee, headed by Linq uanti, will then collect and edit the nominations before 
narrowing the Jist to one hun­dred. Each member of the ten man selection committee will then research ten names and report his findings to the com­mittee. After the research is completed, around Christmas break, the committee will reduce the Jist to fifty names. 

All of the remaining fifty will be contacted and those who agree to participate, usually a­bout seven to twelve, will be placed on the final ballot. The 
senior class will vote from the final list probably around the beginning of the second semes­ter. The recipient will be an­nounced about a month before his appearance, tentatively scheduled for sometine in March just before Easter. 
Publicity Chairman Carl Rak said the committee hopes "to see if it is possible to steer clear of the political field this year and consider entertainers, writ­ers, and artists." 
In the past, the winners as well as most of the contenders have been involved in politics." 
Rak speculated that there would be support for Eric Hof­fer, Kingman Brewster, and Leonard Bernstein as well as political figures such as Jesse Unruh and George McGovern. 

CNC plans adlvlfles 
The Committee for a New Congress, headed by Steve No­vak and aided by faculty mem­ber Mr. John Ros, met last night for the first time since last year in what was termed a strategy session. 
In an interview today, Novak revealed that the small meeting was mainly involved with organ­izing basic plans for the Novem­ber elections. The Committee, whose National headquarters are 
at Princeton University and whose purpose, according to No­vak, is to aid the election of peace and civil liberties candi­dates, will concentrate in local elections if the Princeton Plan fails. 
Indicating that there was a lot of work to be done, Novak explained that the Committee will co-ordinate student involve­ment in races here, in particular the election of Representative John V. Brademas and Senator Vance Hartke of Indiana. 
Although still looking for o­ffice space and a meeting room, the group is tentatively schedul­ing a meeting for Tuesday night. They are looking for members who signed up last year and any new members. 


Britain flew its evacuees to Cyprus and one pilot reportedto impose an additional 25 year he heard firing near the airportprison sentence on "special when he took off. 
dangerous offenders" convicted UPI correspondent David of drug violations. · Zenian reported from Amman that some shooting was heard during the day but the capital was quieter than at any time since the war began last Wed­nesday. Fighting also was report­ed around lrbid and Ramtha in north Jordan and guerrilla chief­tain Y asser A rafa t accused the Jordanian army of violating the cease fire declared by King Hussein on Wednesday and which he himself repudiated. 

Zenian reported fires still burning in Amman, where he said "the specter of starvation, degradation and disease -threat­ens the residents of the city." 


H£1.1.0 PEOPLE 
AMFRI( A opens this weekend for another great season. Afte·r the concert Friday, LOU McKE:NZIE ,will ease your mind (II :00 -I :00). Saturday, 8:30 -I :00, 
EASY will open up the rock series with a wail. Admission is S.SO Friday, SI.OO on Saturday, plus The Tempting Delicacies of Flanner Foods, Inc. 
AMERICA • with a n... lflre ours, how could we 'o wr011,-J · John 




I'''*ODr'''l~'Oiie,geM'Iii'SUran,ce~l 
IPlan offers more I IBenefits... and service in ,I 
every state after you have gradu~rted 
Military service, a career, family and possibly extensive travel await you after graduation. 
You need the broad coverage offered by American General's College Insurance Plan-and you need the service to go with it. You'll find an American General office always conveniently close in each of the 50 states and in many foreign countries. Ask your campus representa­tive today about American General's full coverage and full service. 
CALL THESE CAMPUS REPS TODAY 
Tito Ken Mi"e Gene Bob Trevi1110 Provost Hornbec" Dy•stra' Elum 
815 E. LaSa1le Phone 2343480 


Friday, Sept. 25, 1970 THE OBSERUER. 





THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student New.spape!!r DAVID('. BACH,lditor GAETANO M. De SAPIO. Publisher FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
r. rrrrrn =========================================================;=;=;=;:::::::=:=:=======================:::=======================================:::=:=:=:::=:=:::;:::::::::=:=:::::=:=:=:
F Robert G ·n· 

Carnival of Life 
.an alb. St. Patrick's Church is not used to priestsI have lived too closely with the thought of who weigh in at a healthy fraction of a gross ton;death lately. From after supper on Sunday until and it seemed nothing would fit. Finally, just be­very late Monday night, as we drove eastward to fore sending out for a mattress cover to beKennett Square, Pennyslvania, for Bob Depuy's adapted, we found an alb that must have beenfuneral, and then home again, I meditated uninter­made for the midget son of the incredible shrink­ruptedly on the teasing mysteries of the Dark ing man. It fitted me like a T-shirt drawn over a
Kingdom. After sixteen hundred miles of travel­full suit of battle fatigues. 
ling, with only expressway cokes and car-stereo as These minutiae are mentioned not to be critical palliatives for grief, I am ready to yell, "Bring on of a very kind pastor and his assistant priest, butthe dancing girls, or the performing bears, and let because they wen~ useful in beguiling the mindthe carnival of life re-commence. And let the into a kind of emotional stasis. When one feels henubile feet of young maidens crush lotus blossoms is being strangulated about the neck by the hem ofin all the places where the spirit is lonely, so that a garment that is intended to touch the shoe, onethe mind's fever and the heart's fret may be does not have to think about the figure in the slim, quieted in forgetfulness." 
grey coffin. When one is listening to prayers whose But of course I really won't yell any such pagan 
grotesque imagery superfluously beats off thethings. I am, after all, a Christian priest, and Rome Devil in his attacks against a boy whose home is inwouldn't tolerate dancing girls, and neither would the shelter of Everlasting Arms, one cannot hear my dog, Darby O'Gill. If a bunch of performing the sounds of a family quietly weeping. 
bears were to show up that silly animal would 
But when the Mass was over, and the soul hadleave home in the morning; and he probably would been finally commended to the eternal gentler•esstake the dancing girls, with or without lotus of the Father of mercies, and the body was aboutblossoms, along with him. Us pet-owners have to to be taken from the church to the cemetery,be very careful about the ways we re-commence there came a moment when it seemed that thelife's carnival. 
heart would break. For suddenly, unexpectedly,But one last word on the Depuy funeral. It was the Glee Club began to sing "Notre Dame, Our a golden morning when we arrived in Kennett 
Mother."

Square on Monday, about forty-five minutes be­As chaplain to the group, I have heard the Glee fore Mass-time. About a dozen members of the Club sing the Alma Mater many times: inGlee Club were waiting for us. Bob had been a Washington Hall; among the snows of Minnesota·member of the Club; it was his proudest affilia­in the lands of the cactus plants of Southwesttion. He was buried wearing the Club's blazer; and America. But never has the song touched me with 
moments was closed, a
a few before the casket its ten thousand messages and memories of Notre 
picture of the Glee Club in concert was placed Dame and its people as it did on Monday 1norning inside. A meaningless gesture, perhaps; but it is the w~en I stood in that little church, wearing thosekind of thing that people do to mitigate the sense mismatched vestments and an alb that twisted upof separation that death induces; it assures the liv­my back, looking like a mountain that has tried to ing we have tried not to leave the dead one to be hide its nakedness in a snowcap.
buried entirely alone. 
And now to turn myself back to doing errands for the living. It is Mrs. Depuy's wish that anyoneThe funeral was essentiallY private; only the wanting to do something to honor Bob's memoryfamily, the Glee Club and other friends from would make contributions to the American Cancer Notre Dame were present for the Mass in St. 
Society, or to Torn Tollaksen's Drug Information
Patrick's Church. The readings were from St. 
Center here on campus.
John's Gospel and his first Epistle; otherwise little 
of the new Liturgy was used. As concelebrant, I Life:s energies are too limited to be used up in mournmg. Our commitment is always to the ser­
wore purple vestments instead of white-not my vice of those who live. 
choice, but the Pastor's; and the stole and chasuble Necrophiles of the spirit should be banished to
did not match. 
the haunting of cemeteries.
A major crisis occurred in trying to fit me with 

Letters 

Arts Coucil has worked all. I have always believed thatEditor: diligently in our program to the ND-SMC communityIn Tuesday's s.Observer an present events that would prove appreciated this direction. Ieditorial by Jim Donalson the need for that building under sincerely hope that the publicity("Sport Shots") displayed a a new image as an Arts Center. given to this "crisis" will notstatement which has acted as a Perhaps the Observer realized lead anyone to rashly attempt tocatalyst for widespread rumors the implications involved in Mr. provoke one.
of a "spontaneous" rally in the Donaldson's article and sought Rob BartelettiUniversity Art Center, (the old to remedy the situation with the Chairman UAC
fieldhouse). Perhaps Mr. 
articles of the past two days. P'O'Box 6Donaldson was unaware of the However, I am not satisfied that Notre Dameramifications involved when he 
the community has been
wrote,". ...anyone who thinks 
presented with an accurate
the large block of stone in the Mr. Bartelletti is wrong if he 
picture. The has implied that a
building is going to stop things believes that the existence of 
has never seen a fieldhouse crisis exists; and I have been this so-called confrontation quoted in an article today that exists only on the pages of the
rally." But if this statement was 
implies that existence of this Observer. There has been agita­
made out of ignorance it still 
so-called confrontation it lies
remains irresponsible journalism. tion and rumors about the
only on the pages of the
For his remark, in effect, has possibility of a fieldhouse rally
Obsever. I emphasized this point 
become a direct challenge to long before the Observer men­
to the reporter who interviewed
student who still participate in tioned anything about it. 
me; however, this was not
pre-game activities. Due to the fact that there was
mentioned in his article. Clearly, 
His statement reads as an a real possibility of a spontan­
the UAC does not want to keep
invitation for students to break eous rally in the fieldhouse the 
the fieldhouse from the
into a building that would not Observer would have been defi­be standing today without last community; we have cient in not reporting the re-channelled its potential in the
year's efforts to save it as an security precautions and dangers 
Arts Center_ . The University direction of an Art Center for ofsuch an action. 
• 
Oh boy! My first footbaU weekend. There•s the rally 
Friday night, and I got a blind date for the Three 
Oog Night Concert! 

Dave Lammers ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 

Insanity 
I was as surprised to meet the man as I would be if Sophia Loren asked for my Notre Uame sweatshirt through the mails. It was late last June, here in South Bend at a coffee shop downtown, when I met the most amazing man that was ever born. I had escaped to the central complex of the River City from my duties as editor of a 
newspaper for the nuns and priests that attended Notre Dame's summer session; a bi-weekly rag that berated the student religious for their presumed political apathy and ignorance. 
Exhau~ted from my day's work of browbeating our few readers, I was mulling over a cup of coffee and the day's catastrophes con­tainP.d within The New York Times, when this semi-ragged old chap walks in and parks on the neighboring stool. As I grimaced and groaned over the days news, the old man kept peering aside at me emmitting an occasional chuckle. ' 
"Pretty funny, isn't it?" he said. 
"What's that?" 
"Insanity," he replied. 
"What about it?" 

"It's pretty funny to me that you get so excited about all that insanity in there," he explained. "Oh, well, you know, I like to keep up on things around the world, you know," I said. 
A smirky "Oh" was his only reply, and he resumed stirring his coffee. But he wasn't going to escape me. My journalistic tempera­ment had been challenged, and I intended to badger him until I had figured him out. 
And I could not believe my ears. This floppy oldtimer didn't give a damn about anything even remotely connected to politics. He was apolitical to a degree that defied the word apathetic. To him politi­calness equalled nothingness. Senators and Congressmen were as un­~nown as the fleas on a passing hound, and were probably less tmportant. Contemporary warfare raised not even an eyebrow and the latest hippie beatings passed by without comment. The car~ings on of royal try provoked neither scorn nor admiration . 
. ~y condemnation of our President, all my moralizing and prosely­hzmg, my sadness and even my final admission of ultimate despair for the future were wasted addresses. I could have been Lenin talk­ing to Alice in Wonderland. And the end of my oration brought a strange response. 
"How's your love life,kid?" 

Before I could think of a reply he had slid off his swivel stool and picke~ up m:, newspaper. "You know, kid, politics will just bum you nght up. And then he just walked on out the door. 
He ~ad de~t a low blow. For two years I had been surrounded by fellow JOUrnaltsts, non-violence advocates, student politicos and pro­fessors, all ?f wh~m possessed a nearly absolute stand ~n nearly every concetvable tssue. The horrors of the world's starving masses had b~en seared so deeply into my brain that every can of Budweiser was VIewed as worth a month's food for some exploited Third Worlder. There I was, still hoarse from the spring strike, and this old 
man acts like my membership in the Fifth Estate was my death 
warrant! 
'!'as it not my duty to tirelessly recount our national lack of phll~sop?er-kings, to denounce the universal lust for power and dommatwn,_ to chart the course as a political animal par excellence? Was my calling to be scorned and laughed at? Were Marx and Gandhi and Hesburgh and Hitler unworthy of comment or attention? 
I'~ still perplexed by _the ~ocky old goat. But someho~, things aren t t?e s~me_. When Nixon s face enters my vision, I no longer have epileptic fits. _My 36 volumn set of Gandhi's collected writings ~o longer se~m so mvaluable, and if my parents vote for Dick Nixon mstead o! D1ck Gregory in '72, well, I'll probably still think of them on_ occasw~. And if my friends and I fry our brains and lose our vOices_ argumg about The Revolution...well, Jet it be. Somebody out there IS above it all. 
Page 5 THE OB.rERIJU. Friday, Sept. 25, 1970 
by Roclan 
Observer Features Creature 


VAMPIRES OF THE WORILD UNIGHT 
Up against the tombstone, human speciest pig! We the monsters of the world demand that all discrimination on the basis of species end forthwit. We demand that all the prejudice, all . the malicious lies about monsters end immediately. Nor do we condone in any way, those who would treat monsters as if they didn't exist with a period of "benign neglect." We want, for example, that History cour:>es stop treating monsters as they didn't exist or as some inhuman mass. We demand Monster History courses in colleges as part of a Monster Studies Program, taught solely by monsters, run by monstrous administrators. Since how can one teach Monster Studies unless one has the experience of being a monster? 
As an example of how monsters have JTlistreated by our speciest Establishment, there is Count Dracula, Head of Vampire Liberation. In an exclusive uncut 
bv Rorv Me Hul!h 
One for the Record 
Observer Record Reviewer 
I'm always up for a little notoriety, so when I learned that this IJJper was in some need of a record reviewer I immediately volun­teered my valued services. There is always some danger in assum­ing such a post, for in doing so one puts himself up as a self-styled expert in a field where personal preference is paramount. As a word of warning, I like the Association, Poco, James Taylor, Steve Stills, and Jerry Garcia. I abhor The Iron Butterfly, the Jackson Five, Canned Heat and the Mormon Tabernacle Choir. So if I shoot down any of your old favourites, take it for what it's worth. 
This past week I got two "live" albums to break myself in on. I was a little apprehensive because, as a rule, live albums usually leave a good deal to be desired, and I really didn't want to play super critic on my first try. Happily, Neil Diamond's newest album, entitled, appropriately enough, Neil Diamond Gold,does nothing but credit the talented performer from New York. And a golden album it truly is, as Diamond, always in top form, runs through a spate of his big hits, Holly Holy, Sweet, Carolina, Soli­tary Man, as well as some of his newer material, such as Lordy. 
On the album jacket is a quote from Cashbox magazine, which just about sums up the whole performance "On stage Diamond radiates the same excitement that has made pop stars from Sinatra to Presley, and it's a sensation that can't be described only felt." And after listening to his vemion of Brother Love.; Travelling Salvation Show there can be no doubt about it. This is real audience participation music. The man stands up there on the stage, sweat dripping on his flowered shirt, and dares you not to get into the music. Close your eyes and there's the country preacher, bringing the faithful to their knees with one withering glance. 
Maybe I'm a little prejudiced, but I've always enjoyed Neil Diamond (anyone from Coney Island has to be on the balL) His lyrics seldom jump out and knock you over, as James Taylor's do, but they get the job done none the less, as in the explosive 
Lordy: 
"Look at the way I made my bed, 
Rocks and nuts and I'm half crazy. 
Get to dreamin' I was dead but, 
I ain't been that lucky lately." 

_ Besides offe_ring up the above mer.tioned Lordy Diamond sings fmt rate verswns of some of his many hits; Cherry, Cherry, Thank the Lord for the Nightime, Kentucky Woman and Sweet Caroline, to name a few. He also does a magnificent 'job on J oni Mitchell's very beautiful Both Sides Noww,, (Judy Collin's version of which pales in comparison.) 
Technically, the album falls a little short. You earphones freaks will be crestfallen to learn that separation is almost nonexistence. ~t~t ~;is seems to be one of the predictable shortcomings of such 
hve albums. As for the non-separated music itself it is sur­prisingly good when one considers the small size of Diamond's backup group (guitar, bass, and drums). 
_All in all it's an excellent package, complete with a bad-ass picture of Mr. D. on the back of the jacket. It's well worth your ~ard earned coin, so if you've had any doubts, go on out and buy 
lt. 
On the short end of the stick, Bill Cosby also has a new album out. Don't get me wrong, I think Cosby is great, but the fact of the matter is the Bill Cosby Live isn't. I've always been a little disappointed in his albums (I have the feeling that Cosby has 
flooded the market and thus hurt himself). The main problem is, however, the simple fact that Bill Cosby must be seen to be fully appreciated. So much of his act is in the visual, which of course cannot be captured on today's stereo lp's. 
This is not to say that the record is a waste of the plastic it's pressed on. To the contrary, it contains some very funny stories about all sorts of pregnant creatures (Bill's wife included) feats of great athletic prowness (Bill's encounter with a sevent~ year old man on the handball court), and all sorts of other similarly neat things. At one point, Cosby looks at his new born son and laments, "This can't be mine. I ain't ever made anything this ugly, n~t even when I was in the Navy." He also tells of a harrowing tnp to the zoo, where his little daughters display a curious talent for having to go to the john at the damndest times. 
In the long run, however, "Bill Cosby Live" falls short of Cosby's usuaL If you're in the market for one of his albums I'd suggest one of his earlier outing. Or maybe wait for his next ~ne. 
So that's it for this time around, fans. I leave you with the words of Jerry Garcia, of the Grateful Dead who at times is wont to utter, "We love you, but Jesus loves yo1~ best so we bid you 
goodnight." ' i ntcrview that Playboy will tritely imitate next month, yours trury, Kodan, has asked him about his own experiences and his organization. Count Dracula, for those of you don't know has contributed to c i vi I i z ation in the Poverty stricken distrid both during and after his life. He has been a staunch worker for Zero Population Growth and has for three hundred years, conducted a hunger strike, drinking only liquids. Since the Observer tape recorder malfunctioned during the interview as usual, I cannot recount the int}:rview, but rather will use my memory of it to give a picture of the count rather 
than  the  speciest  slander  of  
Bram Stoker.  
From  humble  beginnings,  

Count Dracula rose to great 
heights. In boldly challenging 
the totalitarian power structure 
of his time, including the rigidly 
antihuman Church, he was an 
outstanding success. Though the 
Church and Emperor had guns, 
Dracula, a true follower of 
Christ, fough.t nonviolently. 
Instead of injuring his 
opponents, Dracula influenced 
their minds with his dedication, 
piety, prayers, sacrifice, 
wolfbane, black cats and 
hypnosis. He grew so dangerous 
to his enemies that Dracula 
suffered the ultimate fate of the 
nonviolent in their fight against 
the -violent -Death. But even 
that could not vanquish him for 
like Christ he rose from the act 
of violence antd returned from 
his grave to haUJnt his opponents. 
Yet still he is nonviolent, 
vanquishing his enemies without 
leaving a mark, except for a 
slight one on their necks. 
Unable to use violence against Dracula, his enc!mies have turned to slander. The yellow journalists were hired and they carefully combed through the Count's background looking for muck. At long last it was found and starting with an issue of Unlife, it was spread. "Count Dracula is a pervert." "Did J. Edgar Hoover know of Dracula's fetish in 1785?" asked Scanlan's. 
Yes, it is true, the Count has a fetish for necks. He likes to bite his partner's necks and suck their blood. In the puritannical society of his time and now, vampirism, as the fetish is called, was irrationally ab-horred. Even today, vampirism is punished by death in all fifty states. In most of the states, the punishment is a cruel, painful stake through the heart. 
His secret revealed, Dracula's popularity waned. He · was harassed by policemen, segregated by his society, discriminated in jobs and forced to register as a Vampire and appear before the House Committee on Supernatural Activities. In the famous Vampire Hunt of 1952, he was sorely persecuted by Tricky Dick Checkers. Checkers accused him of influencing the nation's youth, subverting its morals, and engaging in international vampire conspiracy. 
The Count in a famous speech confronted Checkers, "There are some who find vampires hiding under their beds. They blame vamoires for evervthinl! from 
plagues of mice to fogs. They 
say we kill people. They spread 
fear through society and use it 
for their own demagogery. They 
have people believing they aren't 

safe walkmg down the street in 
the vampire section of cemetery 
town. They would have you 
believe that we are worshippers 
of the Devil and enemies of all 
good." 
"Does that get you cross-" 
"Don't say that," yelled Drac 

in response to the question of 
Arthur J. Pears, disguised as 
Senator Halfbright. 
As we all know Count Dracula was acquitted when he dramatically proved that a picture of him, used as evidence, was doctored since it showed hi~ reflected in a mirror, talking With John Lindsay, Ted Hesburgh and Huntz HalL Yet despite his legal victory, his social and political persecution continues." 
Our government kills 

thousands of people a year but 
persecutes me for performing an 
act of love. As Doctor David 
Rubish said on the Johnny 
Griffett Show 'Sex is basically a 
fun thing."' 
Th counter the speciest 

antivampire laws, Count Dracula 
has organized Vampire 
Liberation. This organization has 
vociferously campaigned for the 
legalization of vampirism. "What 
two people do in private is no 
business of the law," says the 
Count. Not only in private, 
however, for vampires demand 
the right to express their 
affection in public like normal 
people do. 
"If normal people can kiss, 

why can't we bite?" asked the 
Transylvanian Crusader. 
Vampire Liberation is also out to explian away some of the common myths about vampirism. Vampirism does not cause hair tttto grow on the palms of the hands. Vampires do not spread rabies. Batman is not 

by Pere,.in Got Toolt 
How to keep your Head Up 
after being Stood Up 
Question: What experience do nearly all N.D. men have in common? Answer, being stood up by a St. Mary's girL This can be a very_ disheartening and very trying ordeal for any self-respectmg, hale and h_~dy, would-be stud, particularly when he isn't used to such an occurrence. 
The young man's ego and self-esteem fall in serious danger of sinking to the same depths reached by the Baltimore Colts after the '69 superbowl, the Cubs after the '69 season, or Wilt Cham­berlain after any big game. 
In order to avoid such a possibility, our fallen hero must devise some way to save face with hirnsel( and with the fair young maiden. 
One method used by many, with little success, is tb tell the girl that he really didn't mind because when he got back to the dorm he got into a real neat football game with a bunch of the guys. ~This line leaves a little to be desired since he could have gotten mto a neat football game anytime.) 
Another method used is the line, "It's just as we:ll, I had a lot of bookin' to do anyway." (This line leaves a lot to be des,p-ed.) 
A more ingenious technique works as follows. The rejected lover calls up the girl the following day and asks in a worried v?ice, "Are you all right? When you didn't show up I was worried Sick that something awful had happened to you. I couldn't get ~QY sleep last ~ight just thinkinl! about how you mw;t have gotten 
mto an accident and were seriously hurt. Gee I'm glad you-'re
O.K." ' 
However, since the first two methods are mere rationalizations 
and the third method doesn't reallY save the self-pride, the fol­
lowing method is suggested. The guy calls the girl the next day 
and apologizes for not having shown up the night before. He tells her that an old friend of his from Chicago just happened to drop in on him and asked him to go out drinking with him. He tells her that the temptation to relive old times with his b111ddy was just too great. He has the option at this point of saying that he tried to call her, depending whether or not this would sound feasible. He concludes by saying that he hopes she wasn't put to too much inconvenience and that he can understand why she wouldn't want to go out with him anymore. 
This method works exceptionally well in all cases except one.. When the guy doesn't want to end the relationship. 
a member. A nmpire's tecih do 11<>t grow long and pointed. The hickey goes away. Above all, vampire's partners do not die but live very long lives -a~ vampires, of course. Vampires do possess special powers, however, abilities that make him a good worker.. He can turn into a wolf, bat, fog or ray of moonlight; influence people's minds, control night creatures and beat Purdue. Vampires do have an unfortunate tendency to have sex in weird beds. 
Count Dracula still fights on. He was nearly killed by a fight with the Lone Ranger. The Masked Man tried to arrest Dracula in a vampire bar in the East Village. The Count had ordered a Bloody Mary, and tried to pick up the Lone Ranger, disguis,ed as one of the hemophiliac prostitues that inhabit the vampire bars. A scuffle ensued in which 108 silver bullets fired, but the Count only suffered from a few broken fangs. 


CHAMBER MUSIC 

The Music Department of Saint Mary's College will inaugurate a series of informal chamber music concerts tomorrow evening, September 22, with the presentation of cello soloist Arthur Follows. 


Friday, Sept. 25, 1970 



THE OBSERVDt Page 6 
COiVliN G OCT. 2 & 3 
FANTASTIC SAL"£ 


Renovated Roman Palace to house ND-SMCers 

ON STEREO HI-FI 
continued from page 2 

15% to 70% off The school leases three floors of the Hotel Titziano, a . renovat­
SAVE YOUR I\10NEY 
~~d patrician palace. The class­AND WATCH THE OBSERVER FOR DETAILS rooms, library and lounge are in an adjacent building. ·
Radio Distributing Co 
Although designed primarily[~~~ 1212 High St. Ph. 288-4666 :~iij for sophomores, juniors mav be 
eligible tor the program if the
:::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;:;:.:-:.:!!~~!=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:~=~=~:!:~:~:~:..;:!;!;;:!:;:;:~:!:;;;:::::::::::::::::::::::::.::::;:::::~ 
curriculum satisfies their major requirements. To be eligible, a student must have a cumulative 
2.5 scholastic average. He must also be either fluent in Italian or 

enrolled in an Italian course this semester. 
Students at Rome are requir­ed to take a four-hour Italian course. In addition to a three­-hour regular class, they must enroll in a one-hour Italian read­ings and conversation class, simi­lar to one offered at St. Mary's this semester. 
Besides Italian, they may elect art, sketchbook, performing arts 
(Italian theatre), western civiliza­tion, Notre Dame's collegiate seminar, mission of the Church (theology), and Italian arts. 
Mr. Joseph DiGiovanna, philo­
and BUSH 

sophy instructor, is advising a group of students in directed readings on a major philospher or any topic in your major.
In the ACC Sept. 25 8:30 PM 
Teaching the theology course is Rev. Vincente Micaeli, S.J .. New to the St. Mary's faculty, 
0 N SALE AT GILBERT'S, 
Father also teaches at the BOOKSTORE AL SMITH'S RECORDS, 
Gregorian Institute (Rome). Pre­viously he taught theology at
DON KEENE'S, DINING HALLS AND 
Loyola University, New Orleans.
STUDENrt' UNION TICKET OFFICE 
Also on the faculty are Sr.
(4-6pm). PRESENTED BY STUDENT 
Monica Wagner (collegiate semi­UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION A C .C. 
nar), Mr. H. James Paradis (art), 


NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
.#£&$LJ .. ..
f9:WA 4 A 
i

"The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame" Album L.-~---~--~~-------..i 
A 2 record LP Sports Album. a 50 yard line seat to Notre 
Dame gridiro,, history, narrated by Bob Considine· and~ 
Pat O'Brien, and the voices of sportscasters Van Patrick, 
AI Wester. Don Dunphy and Bill Stern. against a back­NOTRE DAME ASHTRAY 
ground of music played and sung by the N.D. Band and 
Glee Club. 


No butts obout it fellas ..• the New N. D. Ashtray in life-time chrome plate is an ideal souvenir gift. 
~>erfect item for every N. D. man's desk • • . Be'au· 
tifully designed, built to last ... Moderately priced. 
Sold in attractive gift package for Dad, the Girl at 
home, or any Notre Dame enthusiast. 
$3.90 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
University of Notre Dame 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
Send chrome plate ashtray D 
Music of Notre Dame 
Name .... 

Students, Alumni and Friends-Here's a treat that will be enjoyed by the entire family ... R.C.A.'s new record 
Address ........................................................................ . 
album containing the Songs of Notre Dame by the Notre Dame Band and Glee Club. Even the album cover, with its photographic reproduction of the campus scenes, 
City and Statu ...............................................................
will please you. The records are plastic, unbreakable, and are Custom Processed and Pressed by RCA Victor. O Remittano:e Enclos .. d 0 Send C. 0. D. Available in 33% RPM. Sove C.O.D. charges by endosing check or money order. 
and Mrs.. Partu Spanu, a Fulbright scholar who will teach the history course. 
At the semester Richard-Raymond Alasko (art) will go to Rome, to replace Mr. Paradis, who will return to St. Mary's. 
Notre Dame's Blue Cirle will be accepting applications soon for new members. The Organization annouced that it is starting a policy of "radicali7.a­tion" to increase membership, because of a need for conscienti­ous people to perform needed social services. 
The Blue Circle, according to Chairman John Sweeny, "is try­ing to awaken the campus to an awareness of the group's existence." In past years, Sweeny said, the Blue Circle has gradually faded from recognition for a variety of reasons. In an attempt to improve the group's overall image, this year the name was changed from the "Blue Circle Honor Society." 
"We don't want our organiza­tion to be aloof or detached for the stduent body.." said sweeny. As a result, this hear, he said the Blue Circle will "informalize" it's interviewing process for members, and put more em­phasis on a person's willingness to work, rather than making subjective decisions regarding members. 
In order to give the Blue Circle a closer connection with campus life, the organization will go co-ed this year. With enlarged membership, the Blue Circle will better be able to involve itself more completely in 


"A few spaces are available for the second semester pro­gram," disclosed Sr. Alma. 
The program is also open to 

, Notre Dame students. Those in­terested should make an ap­pointment to discuss the possibi­lity with Sr. Alma (phone: 4253). 
its activities. 
Besides planning Student Trips, Pep Rallies and conduc­ting campus tours, the group is involved in the Freshman Tutor­ing Program, plus a variety of social activities in the South Bend area. 
R'AP 
continued from page I 
tion of an information bulletin that is particularly designed for the minority student, he said. According to Ellison, this ap­praisal of the university by mi­nority students gives the applicant a realistic idea of what to expect. 
According to Ellison, RAP has no real numerical goaL He said that the number of minority students is almost directly pro­portional to the ammount of financial aid available. The main purpose of RAP is to acquaint the minority student _with the opportunities open to him. 
ISO party 
The International Students Organization will hold a party to welcome its new mem hers and new foreign students. The party is scheduled for the Flanner Hall basement at 8 p.m. Saturday. Both national and international students are invited. 

Page 7 Friday,. Sept. 25, 1970
THE OBSERVER. 

Ollserv•lnslahl 
by Cliff Wintrode Observer Associate Editor When the first words of the Victory March resound through Stepan Center tonight at the Purdue pep rally, a tradition will be broken that extends long before the immortal George Gipp donned a uniform for Knute Rockne. Every pep rally since the first Notre Dame football teams cleated up in the 1890's has been scheduled for the Field­house, but this year the decaying structure feel victim to its own old age and a reordering of uni­versity priorities coupled with a. severe economic crisis. Tonight if all goes well, the only action on the Fieldhouse floor will be a stu­dent quietly sculpturing a twenty-one ton pinnacle of rock, just a faint whisper of the past wall to wall delerium that always prevailed the night before · a game. The Fieldhouse received the death sentence frolli the uni­versity administration last year whose financial troubles (a $900,000 defecit in fiscal 1970) prevented any serious considera­tion of renovating the ancient hulk. The then newly-organized University Arts Council entered an appeal of usefullness for the Fieldhouse as a perfect and the only place on campus where an arts center could be created. The Arts Council vowed to raise a million and a half dollars to do the Fieldhouse up right. The Administration reversed their earlier verdict of death and stopped the bulldozers, but granted the Arts Council only six months to raise the million and a half. Nowhere near this much money was collected, but the university softened and granted an extention of the deadline. T he extension did not prove to be enough time, but again an extension was granted. This extension is scheduled for ex·piration this fall and the chances of raising the quite tidy sum by then are less than nil. However from the little worry evinced by Arts Council officers and the lack of threats from the administration, it seems appa­rent that the University Arts Center, only an alias of the Fieldhouse, will stand with at least a few more graduating classes. The Arts Col.ij1cil held a stu­dent arts fair last spring to help promote the idea of a campus art center, and the free festival was a huge success. The "cultured" students adapted very easily to stage plays on the handball courts, paintings in the locker rooms, and bands on the main floor. Contributions were disappointingly small, but the in­terest was apparently there if not the coin. However, one had the feeling last year that lurking in the back of many minds who outwardly supported the arts center was the subversive thought that any way to save the Fieldhouse for pep rallys was justifiable and once the building was saved, they intended to liberate it for the rallys. Ever since school started this fall the great amount of talk about this possibility and a few bold statements of commitment to liberation have made the sneaky suspicion of last spring a reality. Jimmy the Greek would take 
NEW ROCK IN FIELDHOUSE 
a pep rally tonight in the Field­house off the board. Lloyd's of London would rather insure m, El AI flight to Amman than guarantee the sanci tity of that stone-face standing sentinel. 
The Chairman of the Univer­sity Arts Council and the Direc­tor of Security are beginning to get worried about the possibility of six thousand frenetic students busting windows and doors and stampeeding across the Field­house floor screaming for thei~ team, the Fighting Irish, to beat Purdue Saturday afternoon. 
Rob Bartaletti, Arts Council chairman, is not convinced how­ever, that the arts center will be transformed into a human zoo tonight. 
"I give students more credit than that," he explained calmly. "I think they will realize that the Fieldhouse is now their art center." 
Security Director Arthur Pears expressed ignorance about 
the  potential  threat,  but  was  
somewhat  disconcerted  by  the  
idea.  

"I have heard nothing about 
CLOSE FREE PARKING 
" Awar movie for people who hate war movies!' 
-Rex Reed. Holiday Magazine 
FEATURE TIMES 1:45-3:45-5:45 7:45-9:45 
ADULTS $2.00 CHILD 75d 
COLOR BY DE LUXE 
oi;;;a~
158' 
Ill 11• fl.fUIII 
"•DitOI ''CIIIIfl 

lgot Sjoman's complete and uncut I Am Curious (Yellow) is a "remarkabl 
ilm (which) has been playing for a long time to droves of Swedes, and several million people almost everywhere. It is the story of a young girl is, or was, curious about politics, nonviolence, Zen, commrtment, sociali 
her Swedes and, to be sure, sex. It is a serious film with a noble the d, in dramatic terms, it is original," says Look magazine. The Everg ·1m presented by Grove Press stars Lena Nyman. A Sandrews Prod SSION RESTRICTED TO ADULTS. 
hearts of everyone present by reciting the Gipper legend. And there is nothing that brings out the heart of a Notre Dame man more than a football game and the memory of Knute Rockne. 
open daily 1:30 P.M. Feature at 2:00, 5:15, 8:30 
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN HISTORY YOU CAN SEE 'HELW.DOLLY!' AT POPULAR PRICES! 
LET'S REORDER PURDUE'S PRIORITIES 


.... 
Proof of Age Required 
EID 
SO ADULT•. ONE'X' ISN'T I:MOUGH I 


THE. OBSERfiER. Page 8
Friday, Sept. 25, 1970 

Purdue factory' visits Notre Dame 
by J.W. Findling Irish of Notre Dame. Men prototype of past Purdue 
Editor's Note: Nearly every such as Len Dawson, Dale passers. He threw only eight Notre Dame man has a soft spot Samuels, Bernie Allen, and times, four of which he in his heart for Purdue Univer­Bob Griese are all familiar to completed. But having this one sity. Mainly because the Boiler­Irish fans. The most recent of game of experience, Piebes makers have been so good to all Purdue's talented signal-callers, can be expected to launch of the undergrads that they Mike Phipps, let the Irish several aerials into the Irish haven't permitted them to get a have it all three years. And, secondary. The key to an 
swelled head any of the last if you are a senior at Notre Irish victory may be the three football seasons. Observer Dame with two sisters and a defense's ability to stop those Sportsweiter J'W' Findling has brother at Purdue (as this crucial third-and-long-yardage 
an even softer spot. For him the writer is), then you are downs which Purdue ear beating goes year round. reminded very frequently that quarterbacks seem to convert Three members of his family on the last Saturday in so easily. 
attend Purdue. · September of 1967, 1968, The game Sturday will also 
Purdue University is ugly. 1969 Purdue was a better match Notre Dame's offensive Its dull, red qrick buildings football team than Notre machine against an reminds one of a factory, and Dame. experienced and tough Purdue the banks of the Wabash I must admonish those Irish defense. The Irish offensive River are hardly as scenic as fans who yell "REMEMBER!" line was certainly impre.ssive 
the song implies. The only at Ara's forces this Saturday. against North western, and spot at Purdue with any hint Hell, it's time we forgot Denny Allan, Bill Barz, Ed of beauty is' the infamous about Phipps and Keyes and Gulyas, and Bob Minnix "Hill"-the place where one Fat Jack (Mollenkopf, former should find plenty of room takes a blanket and his girl head coach). Let Purdue live to run on Saturday. Of and where, in the fall, the course, the attention of thein the past-they are Purdue's Purdue student body hold the memories. This is a new Purdue secondary will be on season and it's time that Irish
most obnoxious rallies in all Tome Gatewood and Joe 
of college football. Behind fans really had something to Thiesmann. you is a corn field. Below remember. This game certainly means you the Purdue factory. Purdue comes to South a lot to Thiesmann. His 
Purdue produces lots of Bend this time under a new performance in Ross-Ade last engineers, home economists, head coach, Bob DeMoss, and year was hardly his best. and farmers. If you are a new sophomore quarterback, Although he may not be the interested in any of the Chuck Piebes. The Boilers best quarterback in the humanities, then don't go to won their opener 15-0 against country, the Roadrunner from Purdue. They teach three TC U. Actually the Purdue New Jersey is one of the theology courses--all Notre defense gave away almost 100 most exciting. Against Dame extension course. more yards than their offense Northwestern, when his 
The Purdue factory also gained. But the Boilermaker re,;eivers were covered, produces fine foot ball players; defensive secondary picked off Thiesmann either threw the they specialize in sophomore three key passes to halt TCU ball away or scrambled quarterbacks who, in their drives. Purdue's offense relied around leaving Northwestern three years at the command on the fine running of Otis jocks all over the field. of the Purdue offense, manage Armstrong and Scott Clayton. Thiesmann knows that the to run roughshod over the Piebes wasn't exactly a last time the Irish beat 
Purdue, Notre Dame proceeded to win a national championship. Thiesmann is also confident that he can get tht: Irish ahead and away quickly. Saturday, Joe 

.... The Irish Eye 
Thiesmann will make his Notre Dame classmates forget Tlail II Veno P.....tna. He II a Purdue linet.cker. L•t year after
Picks the last three Purdue games the Notre Dame game Veno said that the Irish didn't hit hard. Veno and give us all something to plays over Larry DiNardo. Watch Larry on Saturday. remember.
After a rash of upsets last weekend (Texas A&M over LSU and Kentucky over Kansas State to name a few) the choices this week will be made with a little more caution. All major colleges get into the action this week including Ohio State. The Buckeyes take on 
ND harriers open season 
those surprising Texas Aggies in Columbus. Here are the choices for the thirty best games of the weekend. Notre Dame, Ind. -Notre ·carroll, Dan Dunne, Bob Demp­country champion last fall while Notre Dame over Purdue: If the Irish lose this one I will personal­
Dame's youthful cross country sey and John Duffy along with finishing second in the mile. 
ly jump in St. Joe's Lake Saturday night with my typewriter strap­team, with only two juniors and freshmen Marty Hill, George "We ha'tle a lot of potentialped around my neck. I like the Irish BIG over the Boilermakers. 
one senior among the first 11 Christopher and Dave Bell. Hill but we're young," said Wilson, 
Missouri over Air Force: The Falcons have looked good in two who will host the Notre Dame
runners, will open a l 0-meet won the Indiana State high games but Joe Moore and company looked awfully strong on tele­campaign Friday afternoon school one mile title last spring Invitational here October 9, the vision last week. 
against Indiana State in Terre while Bell was the state cross lone home meet of the season. 
Georgia Tech over Miami (Fla.): The Yellow Jackets are for real Haute.
and so is their soph qb Eddie McAshen. 
Veteran Irish coach Alex Wil­

Mississippi o•ter Kentucky: Archie Who gets the first conference 
son has just one experienced 

MAJOR LEAGUES
win for Old Miss. This will be a tune-up for the u~coming 'Barna 
runner starting in the opening

game. 
meet, junior Pat Holleran, who

Nebraska over Army: That impressive tie against USC put me on posted an outstanding six mile NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUEthe 'Huskers Bandwagon. They should rout the smaller Cadets. 
time (30: 01) last spring. 

Southern Cal over Iowa: A possible Trojan let-down could keep w Pet. East L GB
Another veteran, NCAA East L GB w Pet. 
the score of this game close, at least for the first half. Pittsburgh .535
600-yard indoor champion Rick 83 72 Baltimore 100 54 .649 
Michigan over Washington: Bo Schembechler was not pleased with New York 81 74 .523 2 New York 89 67 .572 12
Wohlhuter, is still nursing an

the Wolves first outing last week. The boys from Ann Arbor will try Chicago 80 74 .519 2Y:. Boston 82 74 .526 19
ankle injury according to Wilson. 

to make their coach a little happier this time. St. Louis 74 81 .471 9 Detroit 76 78 .494 24
Joining Holleran in the opener 

Philadelphia 85 75 .481
Ohio State over Texas A&M: Going against my better judgement 70 .451 12% Cleveland 81 26 
at Indiana State will be senior 

Montreal 69 86 .446 14 Washington 70 84 .454 30
of picking the Aggies to lose again (They haven't lost yet) I think the 
Tom Desch, junior Pat Dineen,

Bucks wiil "at least" out-score the Farmers. 
sophomores Jeff Eichner, Dan West WestMichigan State over Washington State: The Spartans can't be as 
Cincinnati 99 58 .632 Minnesota 93 61 .604 
bad as they showed last week. They're probably holding their varsity 
Los Angeles84 70 .545 13 Oakland 85 70 .548 BY:. back for next week's contest with du Lac. San Fran. 83 71 .539 14 California 81 73 .526 12
Duffyism

UPSET OF THE WEEK: Atlanta 75 81 . .488 23% Kansas City 62 93 .400 31% Florida over Alabama: Surprise, I bet everyone was looking for Michigan State's Duffy Houston 72 83 .464 26 Milwaukee 60 94 .390 33 Pitt over Baylor. Seriously, the Bear better get things together. The Daugherty was asked by a news­
San Diego 60 95 .387 38 Chicago 55 99 .357 38 
Tide won't be ready for Reaves to Alverez. man whether he thought im­
quite Montreal at Pittsburgh Chicago at Milwaukee
There are a few other good matches this weekend. This is pwper shoes might have contri­
Chicago at St. Louis Boston at Washington
the way we see them: Penn State to roll on against Colorado (TV buted to his team's 4 2-16 loss to 
San Diego at Atlanta Detroit at Baltimore
game), Pitt to get by Baylor (no upset), Tennessee in a squeaker over Washington in the 1970 season 
Only games scheduled Only games scheduled 
Auburn, Boston College over Navy, Georgia over Clemson, Syracuse opener. The game was played at to beat Kansas, West Virginia to go 3-0 over VMI, Texas over Texas Seattle on a synthetic turf on Tech, Illinois over Tulane, Stanford over Oregon, UCLA in a close which State rarely has played ()ne over Northwestern, Indiana over California, Oklahoma over and several Spartans slipped and Oregon -state,-North Carolina -over Marylan<CArfzo-na S-tate to out­fell during the contest. score Kansas State, LS U to gain respect over Rice, Minnesota over "Blaming shoes for our loss," Ohio, Florida State over Wake Forest, Arkansas over Tulsa, and Duffy shot back, "would be like Wisconsin over TCU. blaming the Johnstown flood on Last Week 22 of 30 Season Percentage . 796 a leaky faucet in Altoona." 









