
SENATE RACES CLOSE 
Last night's Senate Elections being cast. Boy Goyette won the Holy Cross with a plurality McGill tying with 54 votes produced a surprisingly heavy there with 11 7 votes, outdis­of votes being cast for "no respectively. Grace D tower was turn-out which returned four tancing his opponent Bob Bothe senator." Gary Wessler won over another squeaker with write-in 
incumbents to their seats. The who had 70 votes. Breen-Phillips candidate James Clarke de­
there with 13 votes. In Flannerfour; Frank McAleer, Tom also had a heavy vote with a B tower a plurality of votes were feating Gary Batchelor by one 
O'Laughlin, John Mateja and majority being split between cast for various write-in candi­vote. Another one vote marginDave Loring won in Flanner, several write-in candidates. Bill dates, while Frank. McAleer and was recorded in Pangborn with Off-campus, Lyons and Keenan Parry with 69 votes and Fran Don Patrick coasted to victory Frank Murphy defeating Steve respectively. McGowen with 46 votes were unopposed. In Flanner A tower Noe 34 to 33. · Zahn Hall had the heaviest the victors there. 
both Tim Westman and Mike 
CAMPUS PERSONALITIES
turnout with a total of 322 votes An odd situation developed 
Walker won on write-in candi­
Several campus personalities
dacies, though a plurality of 
recorded victories in the contestsLyons -2 to be elected 
votes were cast for other write­
Alumni -2 to be elected tonight most notable among*John Meteja 89 
ins. Off-Campus SeJiafor Don
*Ed Grimmer l 03 them being Tim Treanor,*Mike McManus 69 
CLOSE RACES Mooney
*Dave Burch 65 
Observer Editorial Page Editor, a Morrissey -2 to be elected 
big winner in Badin, Don
The closest Senate races were CONTROVERSYBlJdin -1 to be elected *John R. Amerena 94 Mooney Student Government
in Howard, Off-Campus, 
This year's elections were*T.C. Treanor 77 *George R. Anderson 67 Public Relations man, Bruce
Cavanaugh, Morrissey, Walsh, 
marked by the controversy overKuennen chairman of the
Grace C tower, Grace D tower
Pangborn Hall -2 to be elected '1reen-Phillips -2 to be elected the new constitution drawn up
and Pangborn. In Howard, campus YAF chapter, Steve*Paul Unger 36 by the Krashna administration*Bill Parry 69 Novak NSA coordinator and
Robert Ryan narrowly deteateu
*Frank Murphy 34 which would abolish the Senate*Fran McGowan 46 Frank Devine WSND announcer.
Peter F. Hayes 46 to 44, while in 
and substitute the Hall Pre­St. Edwards-.I to be elected Off-campus Don Mooney led WRITE-INS sident's Council as the legislative
Cavanaugh -2 to be elected *Ken Knevel 67 the field of candidates with 47 The elections showed an body on campus. One frequentlyvotes while Vince Deguc brought unusually large number ofJohn McElliogott 62 recurring charge against theSorin Hall -1 to be elected up the rear with 33 votes. The write-ins this year. Some ofPhil Cernanec 42 senate was that the student body*Chuck Ryan 51 others had totals in between. these were due to the fact that showed, through their apathy atPhil Cernanec, who came in two halls, Flanner A tower andDillon Hall -2 to be elected election time, that they noStanford Hall -2 to be elected second in Cavanaugh squeaked St. Ed's, had no announced*Robert A. Bradtke 81 *B.J. Bingle 102 longer felt strongly about theby Mark Wening by a four vote candidates. Large numbers of*Frank Devine 78 Senate. The total number of*Robert K. Sauer 85 margin. Morrissey's George write-ins were recorded in Walsh,Farley Hall-2 to be elected votes cast last night were 3866,Anderson shut down Ray Dalton Breen-Phillips, Keenan, Flanner*Bob Kearny (write-in) 73 
but this is a misleading figure*Don Ferris 65 
Walsh-1 to be elected 67 to 63. Grace C tower election B tower, and Farley. The total since in most halls people could*Gerald Boshelman 40 provided some excitement with number of write-in votes vote for two candidates.
Fisher-1 to be elected victors Bruce Keunnen and Bob recorded were 462.
Rich Wall 82 Zahm Hall -2 to be elected *Bob Goyette 11 7
Holy Cross -I to be elected *Bob Bothe 70Gary Wessler 13 
NBC to ·report on life at ND 
Howard -I to be elected Off-campus-5 to be elected *Robert Ryan 46 *Don Mooney 4 7 
here until Monday, Oct. 19, to the minority were also probed in
by Art Ferranti
*Bill McGrath 41 film the university with a later discussion.
Keenan -2 to be elected . *Steve Flavin 38 
A team from NBC's First 
emphasis on non-violent changes Tuesday night the crew inter­
*Jack Doyle 127 *Tom O'Laughlin 37 
Tuesday monthly television pro" 
in the university's life and viewed editor-in-chief of The
*Dave Loring 40 *Steve Novak· 36 
gram has been on the campus 
structure. Observer Glen Corso and also
since Thursday and will remain 
shot footage of the offices.
The crew is led by Mr. Patrick They are planning to speakTrese who is project manager with Coach Ara Parseghian, Joeand writer for this segment. He Theisman and Tom Gatewoodalso is the interviewer and may on the changes in Notre Damedo the narration for the seg­athletics during the past fewment. Mr. Charles Boyle is the years.
director of photography and Bill Harris is his assistant camera­man. Aaron Holdin is the elec­Larry DiNardo will also be 
trician and in charge of the interviewed concerning his anti­lighting. Ray Kupiec is the unit war statement which appeared manager who sets up e.e various on page 8 of the ND-Purdue 
appointments. Mr. Eliot Frankel 
game program. is the executive producer for the 
Father Hesburgh will speak-show. 
with the televjsion news teamLast Friday and Saturday Monday. Trese said Hesburghthey shot the pep rally and the represents a kind of "reasonableArmy-Notre Dame football game discipline" to the public. Theysubjectively trying to show that will also take more shots or thetradition is still present. They campus, hopefully some shots ofinterviewed radio announcer hall life. 
Paul Hornung and president of the alumni Don O'Brien con­
Trese originally conceived the 
cerning their feelings chaRge at 
idea of doing a story about Notre Dame. In separate discus­
Notre Dame by talking with sions, Trese spoke with SBP 
people he knew that are con­Dave Krashna and SBVP Mark 
nected with the university. Last
"Absences would be treated as referendum results did not
by Dave 1\-icCarthy Winings on basically the same years Army game during which
cuts," he said. He further noted commit the University as a topic.
According to Academic whole, Wilka felt the band formed a peace symbol 
that the proposal, although some and played themes from the
Affairs Commissioner, Bill similar in structure to that of provisions should have been The team filmed the 12: 15 Wilka, ·the Student Government made for individuals to folk-rock musical "Hair," also
last year's strike, calls for the mass at the Sacred Heart Church 
recently sent a letter to participate." interested him, he said. During
establishment of student/faculty Sunday. Trese was particularly 
his stay, Trese said he was
University Provost, Fr. James Review Boards in each college to Fr. Burtchaell, who is out of impressed with "Bridge Over impressed by the life styles inBurtchaell proposin'g amnesty treat violations, thus, "adding town until Friday, has yet to Troubled Waters" being sung at the dorms and the great matur­
for students and faculty react to the proposal. and Wilka
student responsbility,'' communion. Boyle pointed out 
ity of the students and the
members desiring to participate accordmg to WI!Ka. is not optimistic about its that this action typifies some of faculty. He was also impressedin campaigns for the November In explaining the rationale of future. "I'm not even sure ne the changes at Notre Dame in by the general courtesy shownelection. the proposal Wilka noted that can do something as ·Provost," that while the singing is modern to him and his crew.
Wilka explained the guidelines the spirit behind both the he said. He expressed a desire in concept, the song did aduallyof the proposal. The recess referendum and the Academic that Fr. Burtchaell at least call a fit the mood and meaning of the WOllld take place between Council's proposal of last Spring soecial mee.ting pf the Academic moment. This segment of First Tuesday 



October  26-November  4,  was  "To  enable  individual  Council, "if feasible" to  decide  will probably be 20-25 minutes  
pending  written  agreements  people  to  take  part  in  the  on the idea, but concluded, "I'm  The  aspects  of  the  Black  in  length  and  will  be aired  at  
between students and  teachers.  political Process.'' Although the  not sure how it will go."  Studies Program and the role of  9:00 PM on WNDU Ch(!nnel 16.  

-------------------------------------------------------------~--~~ 
Page 2 THE OBSERVER Thursday, October 15, 1970 
Riehle explains security problems 
by Kevin McGill 
Ff. James Riehle, Dean of Students, addressed a meeting of the Faculty Senate last night in the Continuing Education Center, informing the members of, and calling for their help in, the serious problem of campus security. Sighting the violent events of this last weekend. he pointed out the weaknesses in the present security system and announced suggested solutions, including the locking at night of all dorms and the use of t1oodlights on the Main Quad. 
On Friday night, two Notre Dame students and two Army cadets were assaulted on campus. They were not robbed, but merely beaten. On Monday night,Ed Grimmer was knifed in front of Alumni Hall while attempting to pursue a youth who was part of a group that had robbed his hall. Fr. Riehle said that an off-campus student had been stabbed through the chest on Saturday night and is now in the hospital suffering from internal bleeding. 
"These are not just joy riding teenagers we have to deal with," Fr. Riehle said, "They are criminals. They have criminal records. One of the youths under su;pect is escaped from 
prison  and  has  been  arrested  
twenty-two  times for  automo­ 
bile theft."  

While Fr. Riehle feels that the Security Department ·is greatly improved in the four years that Arthur Pears has been its Director, he sees. it as still far from perfect. There is a great shortage of manpower. Only five men presently work the mid­night shift. The Department would like to increase its ranks anu' replace some of its present do us student and faculty abuse. personel, but finds it almost Many new security men, even impossible to hire new men. The veteran policemen, leave Notre two reasons are lack of money Dame after a few weeks because to offer recruits and the abuse of the "pig attitude" and the heaped upon security policemen verbal slings. Fr. Riehle criqi­on this campus. cized the Observer for its exa~­
The University, Fr. Riehle gerated account of police bruta­related, can give a man of lity and urged it to have a twenty-five years experience in positive attitude toward police work only $6500 a year, Security. while a rookie in South Bend "It's hard to find a man thick can earn $7900 after fourteen skinned and calm enough to bear weeks of training, and can start the abuse of this job. You can't at $10,000 in Detroit. It is hard abuse a man for six days and to get experienced men. Most when you run into trouble on off-duty policemen from South the seventh expect him to come Bend are already moonlighting running to your help." "All in somewhere, and the Department all, it is extremely difficult to actually prefers to have their find and keep qualified personel 
own men, over whom they can for Security," he said. have more control. To remedy this problem, the When a man decides to work Security Department is consider-for Notre Dame Security, he 
(Continued on page 8)
becomes the butt . of tremen-

Soph. l.it. Fest. aHract personalities 
theatre has been slighted by the
by Tom Hufendick 
Festival in past years. By con­
The Sophomore Literary Fes­centrating on drama, we can tival, touted both nationally and expand the focus of the SLF." locally for its continuing ability Tom Stoppard, author of the to attract respected literary play Rosencrantz and Guilden­personalities, yesterday stem Are Dead, is probably the announced their plans for the best known of those now sche­spring event. People already duled to attend. "While only 31, scheduled to attend the Festi­this English playwright is criti­val-held this year March 28 cally considered one of the most 
through April 3--indude Tom remarkable contemporary dra­Stoppard, Ellen Stewart, and matists," O'Connor affirmed. Charles Gordone. Charles Gordone is a second 
Festival chairman Kevin playwright who will attend the O'Connor noted, "This choice of Festival, and he has a very speakers reflects our concentra­special claim to fame. He is the tion on the theatre in that all first black man to win a Pulitzer three personalities are intimately Prize for Drama; that for No associated with drama." Place to Be Somebody." 
When asked why drama was O'Connor called Gordone 
to be concentrated on this year, "one of the most unique voices 
O'Connor explained, "The in black literature. He has 

BEER 
TALK 
In which the candid connoisseur answers questions about Beer, and the drinking of same. 
DEAR ED: Every now and then, I see guys putting salt in their beer. What's it all about? 
ALFIE DEAR ALFIE: I'll tell you what it's about ... it's about to drive me crazy! Now, I have nothing against salt. On hard-boiled eggs. Or french fries. But not in my Bud®. Putting salt in beer, some say, perks up the head ... or livens 
:·· .:· 
up the taste ... makes the beer 
:-·· "drier." With Budweiser, though, all salt can do is make it salty. Because Bud is already just about perfect. 
So save the salt for the popcorn, please. We put heart, soul and our exclusive Beechwood Ageing into Budweiser. All you need to enjoy it is a glass ... or drink it right from the can, if that's your bag ... 
Beer questions? Write: Ed McMahon, Anheuser-Busch, Jnc.,721 Pestalozzi St., St. Louis,Mo.63/18 
Budweiser. 
KING OF BEERS® 
ANHEUSER·BUSCH, INC. • ST.LOUIS • NEWARK • LOS ANGELES • TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS • JACKSONVILLE • MERRIMACK 
The scene at last nilrht's faculty Senate meetiftl. 
definite ideas about the efficacy of the exclusive black theatre." O'Connor went on to note that these ideas seem to differ from those of both Clause Browne and LeRoi Jones, two black writers who have attended the Festival in past years. 
Though not a playwright, the other personage who will defi­nitely attend is nonetheless a leading force in world-wide ex­perimental drama. She is a middle-aged black woman named Ellen Stewart. By found­ing the La Mama Theatre Group she became one of the initiators of the important off-off Broad­way movement. 
This theatre group will set up a theatrical workshop during Festival week, and O'Connor mentioned that "La Mama" will work with the ND-SMC Theatre as well as with the SLF. 
Besides announcing those who have confirmed their intention to attend the Festival, O'Connor emphasized that other writers will be present. 
There is Terrence MeNally, for example, whose tentative acceptance was received by the SLF this week. This gentleman first came to attention in I 965 with a full-length play on Broad­way called "And Things that Go Bump in the Night." More 
the Sea -Gull by 
Anton Chekhov 
Washington Hall Oct. 16, 17, 22, 23, 24 -at 8:30 PM and Oct. 18 at 2:30 PM 
Tickets $1.50 Information 284-4176 
Believe it or not­
"AMERICA" is CLOSED FRIDAY 
-Flanner Hall Par(y­
recently he has won acclaim for 
the controversial play "Sweet 
Eros." 
"We are also hopeful that 
culture-critic, novelist, and film­
maker Susan Sontag will 
attend," O'Connor said. Sontag, 
best known for her books 
Against Interpretation and 
Styles of Radical Will, is one of 
the most controversial art critics 
in contemporary thought. 
Others who may attend in­
clude such celebrities as play­
wright Arthur Miller, director 
Mike Nichols, and novelist­
dramatist Joseph Heller. "We 
have no assurance that any of 
these three will attend, but all 
have expressed interest in one 
way or another, explained 
O'Connor. 
In addition to these names, the SLF is also seeking a keynoter for the Festival­hopefully, a drama critic. "Robert Brustein, head of the Yale School of Drama and one of the world's leading drama critics,, is our prime interest now," O'Connor remarked. 
When asked how the Festival's format this year might differ from past efforts, O'Connor indicated that the attempt would be made to increase contact with the authors in a more personal atmosphere. "We should have a great opportunity for small seminar sessions be­cause many of our speakers will remain on campus for a good part of the week," O'Connor said. 
Dave Manfredi, associate chairman for the Festival this year, added, "We will also seek expanded St. Mary's participa­tion, and there is the possibility that an event might be scheduled there." 
Manfredi also mentioned that the financial preparation for the Festival will also be slightly different from past Festivals." "Patron cards have not been sold for the simple reason that our efforts to make money by 
(Continued on page 3) 
TYPING 
Any_ material, any length,
charts and diagrams.1 $.50/page. Will pick up and deliver. Call Connie Paden1 
289-0177 after 4 PM 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Ob-. server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, , Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Thursday, October 15.1970 THE OBSERUEit Page 3 
N D losing top Frosh applicants 
by Bob Higgins Dr. Peter Grande, Director of Admissions at Notre Dame said Wednesday in an interview that his latest statistics of SAT scores reveal that although 1970's freshman are more intellegent that last year's, Notre Dame is losing its best applicants to other schools. Statistics show that the mean score for applicants accepted but not confirmed is significantly higher than the mean for those accepted and now attending the university. Grande attributed this to a combination of two causes. 
First, Grande said that there are many excellent students applying to Notre Dame who are in extreme financial need and 
consequently expect to receive 
aid. If the aid is not received the 
students will turn to other 
schools who have more revenue 
with which to work. 
Secondly, he believes that many applicants chose Notre Dame as a second or third alternative, and upon acceptance at their desired school, lose interest in Notre Dame. 
Dr. Grande stated that more high school students are applying to Notre Dame than ever before. He sees this as a direct result of the increased staff of the admission office, which allows for more visiting of 
high schools across the nation. He said he feels that with the help of Alumni Clubs in the major cities, Notre Dame applicant pool could be increased to an even greater degree. Grande emphasized that increased application did not mean increasing enrollment. Rather, he said. it would increase 
the quality of the students 
accepted. 
On the same subject Grande later said that the admissions office plans to admit fewer freshmen next year and concentrate on increasing the admission of qualified transfer students. 
In speaking of the minority program, Dr. Grande reported that the year's program is working well, using the funds received from the Cotton Bowl, 1970, divided over a four year period. This insures that students with scholarships will be able to retain them until they graduate. _ 
When asked about next year's 
Participation needed 
(Continued from page 2) 
advisors Donald Costello, John 
Matthias, and Richard Bizot for sponsoring movies has been their help. "In addition, former consolidated with Cinema '71 Festival chairmen Bob Hall, Rick and the Contemporary Arts Fitzgerald, and Jim Metzger have Festival. Joint sponsorship is provided valuable help and assis­now through the Cultural Arts tance," O'Connor affirmed. Commission of the Student They added that a call for Union," he said. student participation to help 
Both O'Connor and Manfredi organize the Festival would be made a point of thanking faculty made sometime later in the year. 
program, Grande replied that no is unknown, but he assumes the 
definite plans have been set. amount to be similar to this 
Recruiting teams have been sent year's. to major cities, such as Gary, One aspect of minority Chicago, Philadelphia, and recruitment that has helped Washington, D.C. Grande Grande to increase applications, mentioned that the source for contended Grande, is the next year's minority scholarships admission's office policy of waiving application fees for minority applicants if requested. Grande said that the money, which is used to pay University salaries, can well be forfeited to increase the chance for a minority student application to be accepted. 
Jane Fonda to spea" here 

by Greg Rowinski Actress Jane Fonda will come to Notre Dame in early November to talk on the possible alternatives to the present ills in our society. "I think that there is no weapon so powerful as the perception of the alternative," Miss Fonda has said in describing the purpose of her speaking tour. The Student Union Academic Commission is sponsoring her appearance November 8, at Stepan Center, beginning at 8 pm. 
Co-commissioner Jim Metzger feels that Miss Fonda is a uniquely legitimate speaker on this topic. He ranks her as the most active woman in social action today. Though considered a "jet setter", she has qualified herself in this serious endeavor by her firsthand contact with many of this country's minority groups. 
Her active involvement has been in two directions. First she went out to discover America in an automobile tour of this country. She sought to "meet the silent majority I had heard so much about.'' She also saw 
sso organize SMC campus events 
by Patti Shea 
A Sadie Hawkins dance, Ma­jors Nights, and interhall foot­ball games are all up-coming campus events being planned by Saint Mary's Student ~ervices Organization (SSO), according to Diane Shahade, SSO director. 
The Sadie Hawkins Dance, organized by the social commis­sion, a branch of the SSO, will be held on Saturday, October 23 at the Mishawaka Conserva­
"tion Club. "To complete the weekend's activities, plans are being made for Sunday open house al).d interhall football games," Diane explained. Mary Ann Weisy and Terrv Trenor of SMC are co-.chairmen of the weekend. 
Two "Majors Night" pro­grams, where Saint Mary's stu­dents can meet and confer with department heads and faculty in their planned major fields are being scheduled by another branch of the SSO, the academic commission headed by Missy Underman. The Majors Nights will be held on Tuesday, Octo-
ONE NIGHT ONLY­
• I J. ' \ ~ 
~Li:_:~'y: ~JMS~LF. 
Jim Moran 
at "AMERICA" 
her 27, and Thursday, October 29, according to Diane. 
The SSO, which is completely run by SMC students, coordi­nates the social, academic, com­munity services, student de­velopment, and public relations commissions in planning Saint Mary's main extra-curricular ac­tivites and services. 
Several projects, some fairly successful according to Diane, have been undertaken by the organization. So far, the SSO has held a -used book sale, arranged for Stapleton Masses every night. and provided for the sale of the Sunday editions of the Chicago 
Tribune  in  the  dorms  fron1  
1 I :00  a.m.  to  1:30 p.m.  each  
Sunday.  

In addition, Diane termed Senator George McGovern's ap­pearance and the response it drew from the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's student body a succ.ess. 
"The SSO is working to bring activities like this to Saint Mary's. I felt that McGovern's appearance proved that we could hold important events such as these at St. Mary's more often," said Miss Shahade. 
The SSO has several long range innovations in the plan­ning stages such as the establish­ment of a central meeting place 
for  Notre  Dame  and  Saint  
Mary's studen ts.  
"I  would  like to see  more  

students become aware of the SSO,'' Diane stressed, "and if there is, any service a student would like, I would be more than happy to hear about it." 
The SSO office, which is located in the basement of Holy Cross Hall, is open every Mon­day and Wednesday afternoon from one to three. 
Student Union Cultur•l Arts 
Commission Contempor•ry Arts Festlv•l The Mlchl•n• Friends of Jazz 
present 
THE GARY BURTON 
JAZZ QUINTET 
A fusion of Jazz, Blues, Country, Rock, and Contemporary Chamber Music 
Oct. I7, 1970 O'Laughlin Aud. 8:00p.m. Admission $2.00 CAF Patrons: FREE 
the no-longer silent minorities. She met soldiers, Marines, and sailors who have formed anti-war organizations on every American base and ship. She has been arrested four times by military authorities and has a suit pending against Secretary of Defense Mecyin Laird. Miss FonMa met with Black Panther Party leaders and members and visited the Party's free breakfast for children and clinics. She talked with survivors of police raids on Party headquarters. Not satisfied with news reports of atrocities in Vietnam, she talked with soldiers about this situation. Fonda also has been identified with the situation of the American Indian. She visited reservations and Indian-occupied Alcatraz Island. After viewing the problem, she went on to her next step: direct action toward beginning some solutions. 
With lawyer Mark Lane, she founded an office in Washington, D.C., which collects complaints made by G.I. 's who have been illegally disciplined for expressing their First Amendment-bestowed rights. 
Some of these soldiers have been detained from one to five years in stockades. In this action, she has received support from some Senators and Congressmen. 
am~~n 

2 hours a night -3 nights a week $10-$15 
Steady Job -Guaranteed Hours Each Week 
position filled 
N + W Foreign Auto Wrecking 
Need a cold weather project? We have a large selection of rebui ldable sports cars. Every­thing from Alta to Volvo. Large selection of parts. All inquiries 
ans. promptly. Calls credited to purchase. Locator Service. We buy wrecked, rundown sports and foreign cars. We ship nation wide. 126 s. 16th St. -N. Castle, 
Indiana-5298886. 
CAN YOU HELP? 
Lowenstein (0-N.Y.) Needs You 
leading House dove enviromnentalist legislative rcfonner 1970 Senior Class Fellow 
Meeting to organize will be this Thursday, Oct. 15, 
7:30 PM in Room 127 Nieuwland 

JAMES WHITMORE 
IN 
"WILL RDGERS'U.S.K.' 
Adapted by PAUL SHYRE 
A MARTIN GOODMAN PRODUCTION 
TICKETS ON SALE l~ ~-:· ~0tt~c~.m. 
,Sl•e Pn:J>iew on "60 Minutes", Tue.wlzy Night, WSBT-TV Channel 22 
All se•t• reserved 


Page 4 THil OBSBRfiER. 


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GLEN· S .. CORSO, Editor GAETANO M. De SAPIO, Publisher 
.FOUNDED NQYEMBER 3, 1'966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
BOMBINGS 
The recent series of bombings across the country -highlighted by the blast which destroyed a floor on a Harvard library-have signaled a new wave of terrorism by the radicals in this country. Terrorist bombs are nothing new to this country, but the present organized sequence of blasts is most disturbing. The New York Times stated recently that "between January 1969 and April of this year 4,330 bombs were exploded in buildings and public places in the United States, . , . and another I, 174 attempted born bings were forestalled ..." For most of these the "urban guerrillas" as the Times called them, have taken credit for these events. 
In New York last Tuesday an assembled group of media people listened to the taped voice of Bernandine Dohrn, a fugitive Weatherman leader. She proclaimed the start of a "fall offensive': all over the country. Thursday three explosions rocked the West Coast, while on Saturday a Queens County Courthouse was blown apart. 
There is a crying need for strong action on the part of public officials to combat this wave of terrorism. Yet additional FBI agents, authority to tape phones and the like, are stop-gap measures more often than not designed to soothe a jittery public's fears. 
Why, for example would a brilliant young lady like Angela Davis feel compelled tobecome a common gun moll to aid escaping criminals? Perhaps it was due, in part or whole, to the action of the California trustees and Ronald Reagan. Liklier still it would have been the attitude many people in this society are adopting that the establishment is basically immoral, therefore they have the right to ram their ideas down our throats by any means at hand. 
This is not the way to effect change in a society. It only heightens paranoia and leads to ugly repressive measures. Last year by Congressman Allard Lowenstein said that people are willing to correct the inequities in America if students take the time and trouble to go and explain to them what we feel is wrong. I 
If this is the case then let us do it and do it now. 
Letters 
Dear Editor, police action which would be The three uniforms ripped off 
I wish to state that you necessary to include if one were belonged not to three tin sol­achieved an effect with the to reach any understanding of diers as Price insinuates by headline "McGovern speaks of the questions raised, as should omitting mention of them, but revolution." These four words be the intent of any column to three guys who were relieved will be remembered by most of Granted cops are rough and, to be escaping the army hassle the people who glanced at yester­lately, hungry for "longhairs". I for a weekend, who took plea­day's Observer. speak from a "longhair's" three-· sure in the fact that they could 
Very few of your ardent time losing seat of experience on go to bed when they wanted at readers will look deep enough that count. Yet, in a society as night, and who spend the better into your hazily formed head­segmented as ours, the reactions part of their time trying either lines to find just what McGovern of those who identify themselves to justify their continuance in was talking about. I also wish to with one group or another will the USMA program, or to figure congratulate Mr. Winthrode (the be met with an overreaction a way out of it. author of the article) on his directly proportional to that of 
And they were three reallypenetrating analysis on his own. 
quiet guys as they rode out toMcGovern's remarks. I happen Or, in reference to this case, if campus Saturday morning into know Sen. McGovern person­one is to place himself on one their "civies." The bottom hadally and I didn't find him evasive side of a fence dividing a nation, fallen out of their weekend and or elusive. that is categorize himself for the their thoughts were glossing overNext time, Mr. Wintrode, benefit of the "other side," and the four months which laydon t be looking for certain then effect a mock-out on the ahead, four months duringanswers for certain questions. By "pigs" by dressing up in their which they would daily receivethe way did The Observer merge messianic symbol, he shouldn't some sort of punishment forwith The Chicago Tribune? expect that other side to rest his having gone to the Notre DameLarry Overlan broken foot on a satin pillow or game without their dress greys.
110 S. Taylor to light his cigarette for him. 
And then Price omitted theSouth Bend If you want to be a "long­fact that the Army dropped the
hair," just accustom yourself to
Editor: charges (felonious theft and
the fact that you're going to
Being both a friend of the officer impersonation) against
catch grief from the cops. It's
"Longhairs" apprehended on the "longhairs." Surely no one
just a part of the game -no one
Saturday and a host to the three would have let the cadets off the
takes as much shit from "hip­
cadets whose greycoats were hook had the uniforms not been
pies" as cops, so no one is going
stolen, I find myself in a rather recovered.
to be more willing to dish it out 
A writer in a wounded nation awkward position' from which to than the cops. 
trying to tackle a problemcomment upon Ted Price's 
And then there is the party 
infecting the wound, but failing"Greycoats" column of 12 Octo­
caught in the middle wh·om Price ber. Yet Price, in developing his chose to ignore completely, just to consider that problem in its 
total perspective, has journalis­theme of police boorishness has as if they weren't human being:; tical.ly copped out.
ommitted several aspects of the -exactly as our three· long-Jack Fialaincident and causes of such . haired friends did. 
The opinions expressed in the 
Executive Editor: John Knorr SMC News Editor: Jeanne Sweeney 
editorials, news analyses, and 
Managing Editor: Bill Carter Associate Editors: Dave Stauffer, Sue Bury 
columns of the Observer do not 
Editorial page Editor: T.C.Treanor Night Editor: Jim Graif 
necessarily reflect the views of St. 
News Editor: Ed Ellis Headlines: Dan Nye 
Mary's College, the University of 
Features Editor: Dave Lammers Layout: Joe Abell, Joe Anderson 
Notre Dame, their administrations,
Sports Editor: Terry Shields Layout Design: Jim Farrington 
faculties, or student bodiel>. 
The Soft Parade------­
••Women's Lib'' 

Women's liberation burst upon the scene this summer in New 
York. It was highlighted by a party in Southhampton where one 
young lady swam topless in her hosts' pool and a parade down 
5th Ave. on Aug. 26th, the 50th anniversary of women's winning 
the vote. 
The women who acted as organizers and spokesmen for the 
effort were a curious mixture of pushy loudmouths and tall 
sophisticated beauties whom one remembers seeing in 
photographs of radical chic parties. 
The militant females had of course, a long list of demands 
which they insisted be granted immediately, if not sooner. There 
were legitimate grievances; equal job opportunity, educational 
equality and equal wages. Naturally there were those demands 
which entailed someone, presumably the government, to give out. 
Such items as free abortion on demand, universal free day care 
centers, test-tube births and freedom from pain for the fem::le 
body will -except for the last which is most likely beyond the 
capability of the federal bureaucracy --cost quite a bit of money. 
The Women Libbers didrl t make any suggestion as to where the 
money could be gotten. One supposes though that if they really 
want these things they will be forced to acce,1t tax dollars from 
male chauvinists, at least at first. 
The basic tenant of the movement is that women constitute an 
"oppressed majority ' in this country. A superficial examination 
of the facts tends to confirm this statement. Men do hold most of 
the top posts in government and industry and in many instances 
women are paid less than their male counterparts in similar jobs. 
A large percentage of the advertisements which bombard us daily 
contain very beautiful and or very stupid females which extol the 
virtues of particular products. 
A closer examination of the facts however, tends to cast doubt 
on the central truth which guides the movement. 
One of the more astonishing items is that although men 
comprise approximately two-thirds of the nation's labor force, 
therefore excluding housewives, fully 70 percent of the nation st 
private wealth is controlled by women. If housewives were 
included in the total, one could hazard a guess that the 
percentage of female-controlled wealth would be higher. 
The implications of this fact are enormous. If our society is 
motivated primarily by economics, then it is quite obvious that 
many of societies' present ills can be laid at the doorstep of the 
women in this nation, not the male chauvinists. 
There is little doubt that discrimination against women exists 
in the field of job opportunities. However it can be pointed out 
that discrimination also exists for women in various fields. 
Females predominate such fields as teaching, library management 
and secretarial and stenography. Yet it is also true that men dig 
ditches, work in construction, mine coal, haul garbage, lift loads 
and tote bales. In short, they do all the menial, back-breaking and 
degrading jobs in our society. 
The implications of this fact are perhaps, the greatest of all, 
since they mean the difference between life and death. It is 
commonly known that on the average women live longer than 
men. It can be reasonably assumed that the labor men perform 
during their lifetime contribute to their earlier death. 
The predominant social mores are also affected by the 
movement. Such simple courtesies as rising to one's feet, holding 
the door and lighting a cigaret may no longer be due a liberated 
female. 
.Etiquette aside, the question i~ do women want to give up their position in this country -a position obviously more important and powerful than some make it out to be --for the dubious distinction of equality with men? 
I 
~------~­
Thursday, October 15, 1970 711B OBSBRUER. Page 5 
Notre Dame -Saint Mary's Theater opens Friday with Chekov's "The Sea Gull" 
On Friday, October 16th, the Oct. 18 at 2:30PM in Washing­Notre Dame -Saint Mary'~ ton Hall. • .. Theatre will open its season for Chekhov's play is one of 1970-71 with Anton Chekhov's, character and mood. Director, "The Sea-Gull." The play will be Reginald Bain has selected a presented Oct. 16, 17, 22, 23 particularly competen t cast., and 24 at 8:30PM and Sunda:y which has been in rehearsal since 
R~v. R~r1 Griffin 
An Open LeHer 
Dear Maintenance and Other Minority Groups Opposed to a 
Rector Sharing His Digs with a Dog: 
Darby O'Gill is the name of the little brown and white, eight 
months' old cocker spaniel that lives with me at 120 Keenan Hall. Sometimes, if you see us puddle-hopping together on the Quad, you may think we are bad friends; that's only because I'm usually raging .at the beast with curses and hammering at his hinder-parts with my fi~ts. The reasons for this ungentle treatment are these: to discourage the pup from taking off in an independent search for friends and ice cream at the Huddle; and to promote his loyalty to his A.K.C.-registered leader so that he will not make a fool out of himself over every pair of dimpled, coed ankles that dance toward him on the garden path. The young Master O'Gill has some of the finest character traits known to dogdom; but he has not yet learned 
that loyalty to the Master is a puppy's highest form of service. 
But my problem at the moment is not to philosophize on the 
aberrant behaviour of young Darby. Rather, it is how to establish 
the rights of this litt.le guy to live as a member of the Notre Dame 
community. I feel he lives a very threatened existence: Maintenance 
doesn't like him; Security wouldn't J;e for him (though some of 
O'Gill staunchest friends are policemen): and the Dean of Students 
never sends over doggie bags. Last week, a Darby-watcher phoned to 
say there were rumors from the power structure suggesting tha~ the 
animal's days on this campus are numbered. For the rest of the 
week, every time the door open~:;cl, I expected to see Mr. Pears, 
armed with chair, whip, and a can of Mace, waiting to carry off my 
pet to a home for orphaned puppies. . 
One does not want to be sentimental about a dog. One sometimes 
feels embarrassed over the tender feelings he has for a dog. The time 
and care I give Darby, I often think, could much more profitably be 
given to a homeless waif. Should I, then, give ~p Darby O'Gi~l and 
send out to an over-populated country for a reSident ragamuffin for 
Keenan Hall'? I answer myself, only if the hapless mite could learn to 
live on puppy chow for seventy-five cents a week; and only if he 
could learn to shift for himself, with only a red rubber boot as 
company, on the evenings I dine at Frankie's; and only if he caul? 
learn to soil the campus lawns and not the Rector's rug; and only 1f 
he could be satisfied with occasional baths cadged off students 
visiting from St Mary's College and Zahm Hall. 
Darby and I have grown used to each other's ways. On the days I 
have money, he eats; otherwhe, he goes hungry, unless we can beg 
cookies from the Freshmen. He romps on the Quad, or 
accommodates Nature, early or late in the day, depending on the 
time I rise. He has little treats from Good Sales in the evening, on 
the days when I'm not fasting. In turn, every morning and evening, I 
search out the itchy spots on his ears and tum, and I scratch them. 
At night, when he has bad dreams, he knows he can plop d~wn by 
my bed, and I will let my arm dangle over so that _he can lick my 
hand until his fears are quieted, his heart stops racmg, and he can 
nap quietly once again. It is not an elaborate arrangement? but his 
little life is in my keeping, and he is the only thing that lives that I 
can call my own. · 
I nearly lost him once, after the first nine days of our being 
together, when he was eight weeks old. As he frisked about in my 
arms. I accidentally dropped him on his head in the drivewav. When 
he lay there on the pavement, as still as a broken toy, I knew the 
kind of tears that come when sadness touchesthe places in the heart 
where one is still a child. 
Then, in the late Spring, Darby's career as the .Rector's roommate 
seemed threatened from above; and for an anxious week, I sheltered 
him from the news that he might be expelled, as a health menace, 
from the University premises. Later, when I told him his tenancy 
had been approved by Fr. McCarragher and the County Health 
Officer, he puddled on the floor in an obscure commentary 
representing his own kind of insouciance in the face of red tape. But 
forever after, he has kept an old Observer shot of Father Mac, 
mounted, like Snoopy's Van Gogh, on the walls of his doghouse 
somewhere under the Rector's bed. 
After that until just recently, l thought that the young runt of his 
litter could grow up unmolested on Our Lady's quads. But now, 
dark fears springing from black rumors are feeding my feelings of 
paranoia on behalf of my pup. Each time Darby and I cross the 
campus, I can imagine disapproving eves, watching our prancing 
upon the turf. I can hear the voices whispering: "The pooch must 
go.' 
So, dear Maintenance Department, how does one establish a dog 
as a permanent fixture on this campus? Must he play football, 
become Provost, or be elected to the Board of Trustees? How can 
one gain tenure for his pet, .or secure for him ~ university 
appointment that will let him grow t.p as a member of Our Lady's 
household-at least until such a time that it is decided he needs other 
children to play with than th bttckaroos of Keenan, or until he 
decides to go off in search of fulfillment as the owner of his own 
stud farm? 
On becoming ordained, one might have expected to plead with 
Popes, rather than with maintenance departments, for the right to 
choose a companion for life. 
early September. In the role of Madame Arkadina will be Nori Wright, a senior English major who appeared last year as Ruth in "We Bombed in New Haven." As Nina, Missy Smith begins her senior year as a speech and drama maior. Last year she 
played the Nurse in "The Death. of Bessie Smith." Also a senior drama major, Anne Patterson will act the role of Masha. Last Rossi. 
To create the mood, the theatre's new technical director, Richard Bergman, will make extensive use of lights. Already Mr. Bergman has added an 
tmportant innovation to Wash­
ington  Hall.  Built  onto  the  
original  stage  structure  is  an  
;~pron  reaching  out  into  th<  

house past the first row of seats. fhis will allow the ,ueater 
intimacy .of 3/4 stalting. Assist· ing Mr. Bergman will be the costume designer, Jane Shana-, barger. Tickets for students, faculty, 
'imd ND-SMC staff are $1.50. Reservations can be made by calljng 284-4176. Any needed· information can also be obtained 
at this number. 
year Miss Patterson played Juliet in "Romeo and Juliet" and the "good woman" in "The Good Woman of Setzuan." 
• 
In the roles of Treplev and Trioprin are junior drama majors Jim Hawthorne and Mark Genero, respectively. They appeared in "We Bombed in New Haven" and "Romeo and Juliet" together. Tom Broderick, a junior also, and last year's Romeo, will play Sorin. Tom has, in addition, played the pedantic Dr. Lombardi in "The Servant of Two Masters." 
Rouncjing out the cast are Rick Homan, as Medvedenko, Jack Fiala· as Darn, and Matt Kubik as Shamraev. Also in the cast are Nancy Bartoshesky, Rita 
Milly Smith as Nina and Mark Genero as Trftorin
Gall, Mark O'Connell and Bob 
" I am a janitor "' 

My name is Howard J. Borowski. 
Sounds like something off "I've Got a Secret," 
doesn't it? But that's the only way that I could 
think of to start this article. By telling you who I 
am. 
If you can not already tell, I am not a writer. I am a janitor. 
I am a good janitor. The people over at the personnel office always call me an "internal maintenance man", but I really prefer to be called a janitor. 
I work as a janitor, and I like to be called a janitor. When I am not called a janitor, I like to be called Howard That is my name. I like my name, and I like my work. 
But I am no ordinary janitor. I don't work in a factory during the all-night shift, like my cousin Freddie does. 
Freddie works as a janitm: because he can find no other job right now, Freddie doesn't lik,e being a janitor, but as he says, "It's a living, ain't it." 
He goes to work 5 days a week. He works. Then he comes home to his wife Emma. They have no children, they just have each other. Freddie and Emma are very happy together. 
Freddie is happy at home with Emma, but not when he is at work. He does his job, but he hates it. He hates sweeping the floors, wiping out the latrines, washing down the walls. Freddie hates everything about being a janitor. 
I have tried to tell Freddie that he is in the wrong place. That he should come to work where I work. He would like it here. But Freddie never listens to anyone. 
I don't work in a factory like Freddie. I work at the University here in town. ·1 don't work at justa college, I work at a University. 
There's a difference, you know. Freddie is young. He is only 32. He could have a good life here. 
I am not young like Freddie. I will be 63 in November. November 26th is my Birthday. Sometimes it falls on Thanksgiving Day. I don't know if it does this year, but when it does I have twice as much to be thankful for. 
I am thankful for those things that I have been blessed with, and the years that I have been given to use those blessed things. 
I was not always a janitor. For more years than 1 can rem em her I was a mason. Not one of those religious guys with the secret handshakes, but a stone mason. A mason builds things for people. 
A mason can-build a stone wall, or a maison. Maison is French for house. "A mason can build a Maison" is an old stonecutters ioke. You have to know some French though, otherwise you won't get it. 
I got too old though to keep on being a 
full-time mason. You have to lift a lot of hea"¥ 
stones, when you are a mason. Lifting a lot of 
heavy stones can hurt your back. 
It hurt mine. 
. That's why I am now a janitor at the University. 
I like being a janitor more than I liked being a 
mason. It was nice to build stuff, but when you 
finished, all you had was stone and cement. 
People liked the stone and cement, but that 
wasn't enough. 
It didn't have the purpose that being a janitm has. I think this is what the kids in my dormitory are talking about when they talk about relevance. 
But I am not sure. I do not go to college, I only work ·at the University. A janitor helps people. He is devoted not tc stone and cement, but to people. I get up every morning at 5, so I can be sure tc get to school by 6. 
r. The first thing I do when I get there is clean oul all the johns, before everyone gets up. 
When they do get up, all the johns are sparkling The kids don't have to worry about the mess, take care of it for them. 
I then sweep the hallways, or at least I used to ­until they put in carpeting. Now I use a vacuum that the University gave me. 
It takes longer to vacuum, but it looks muc~ better. I am happy to do it. j 
It makes the place a lot more pleasant for the kids. They are very important to me. It is for them that I work so hard. 
Someday they will make this country a lot better place to live in. Getting a good education will help them. I don't want them to worry aboul messy hallways, or dirty basements. I want them only to worry about getting an education. 
They can change the country, l just pray tney do it right. It is okay for them to ignore me. Sometimes they even snicker at me. That's okay, too. I work for them because I love them. 
I do not ask for love in return. I ask only that they get out of the University what they are seeking. I do my job, the job I love, to make it ~asier for them. 

Page 6 Thursday, October 15, 1970
TH£ OBSERJJER. 
~~~-------------------------------------------------------------------------~------~~~ 
Co-ed consultants visit campus 
house going to be set up downstairs in LaFortune which we hope to expand greatly and work out a similar arrangement with St. Mary's in some way... Another thing that has been talked about for a long time and which many proposals have been made for is a new activities center, somewhere between Notre Dame and St. Mary's, hopefully some joint venture by the two schools, which would provide students from both schools an opportunity for infor­mal gatherings. Going into the concept of co-education, the informal personal relationships are some of the greatest assets to the program of co-education, and which need to be developed. And it's things like a new activities center, and coffee­houses, and just informal little places to get together that will hopefully accomplish that set­
up.  And it is in  this line  that  
we're  trying  to  develop  the  
social  aspects  of  Notre  Dame.  

There's a committee that's been formed (which is going to report to the board of trustees of Notre Dame) made up of a number of people from the faculty and students from both schools, which will really sit down and take a serious look at the whole situation and hopefully come up with some specific ideas to present. . .In the near future we're going to start setting up discussion groups within each of 
the halls on some informal basis where people can just come and talk and discuss the concept of co-education, what it means, what are its advantages, disad­vantaps, and possibilities here. 
"It's ridiculous," said Tom Keegan, another resident of the wing, "the University has sprayed three or four times but the fumigation only lasts for a few days. There are probably so many that you can't kill them all.'' 
The members of the annex complain that the roaches are coming from a cra~lway b~­neath the hall. Thirteen residents have signed a petition addressed to Fr. Thomas E. Chambers, Director of Student Residences citing instances of finding "cock­roaches in beds,'' along with students being awakened by roaches crawling over their faces and legs. 
In a letter, Fr. Chambers said that he was a ware of the problem and that he was doing everything possible to remedy it. 
Speech moved 
Ti Grace Atkinson will speak tonight at 8 pm in the Notre Dame Library Auditorium rather than at SMC's 0' Laughlin Audi­torium as had been originally 
by Fred My£~rs 
Co-educatiorz may be in the future for the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities if hired soconsultants indicate to the administrations that this change would be beneficial, according to seniors Julie Dwyer and Tim Connor, co-commis­sioners of the ND and SMC student governments' combined research and development com­mission. 
In a recent OESER VER inter­view, Julie and Tim also pointed out that these consultants, Dr. Lewis Mayhew of Stanford Uni­versity and Dr. Rosemary Park of U.C.L.A., are planning to be on each of the campuses next week to observe operations. Other subjects, such as the purpose of the research and development commission with regard to co-education, were also discussed in the course of the interview; the text is below. 
OBSERVER: What exactly is your committee trying to do
FIND THE FOLK 
with regards to co-education? Tim: What we basically have
MUSIC-SATURDAY 
to do is to educate the Notre 
NIGHT 
Dame student. ..with a full idea of what co-education means. A AT "AMERICA" 
lot of people -administrators, students, faculty -consider co-education right now in a 
IN THE BASEMENT! 
purely academic sense. .It really is a lot .more than that, because of social life, dorm life, services, di!ling halls,. lam~ dry, 
Hair $tyfing 
_ forND_men the Continental Way Razor Cutting f: Style · 
Europ_ean Layer Shaping for Long Hair 
Have Long Hazr !k Let Miss Treva & The Barori Be Well Groomed S_!rv_.e & PanJI!er You 
ContinentaJ Hair Styling 
306 ShE!rland Bldg. South S:end, Ind. Student Rates 
.234-08111 
_-By Appt 
The Cultural Arts 
Commission 
PRESENTS 
TI'Uft.ut's 
Thurs. Oct. 15 Fri. Oct. 16 FAHRENHEIT 
7&9:30 451 
Engineedng Aud. with Oskar Werner Admission $1.00 & Julie Christie 
Clnem• '71 
Sat. Oct. 17 Sun. Oct. 18 
P•sollnPs
2:00 & 8:00 Eng. Aud. TEOR~MA Admission $1.00 Cinema '71 Patrons FREE Patron Cards -Available at 
th~ door & at the Student Union Ticket Office 
CAF with the Mlchl•n• Friends Sat. Oct. 17 ofJaz O'Laughlin Aud. 
8:00 Admission $2.00 THE CAF Patrons FREE 
GARY .BURTON JAZZ QUINTET 
A fusion ofJazz, Blues, Country, Rock and Contemporary Chamber Music 
Tickets Available At the door & O'Laughlin Aud. Ticket Office & Student Union Ticket Office 
everything, has to be focussed on the whole concept of co­education and brought into the whole perspective of co-educa­tion. It's not just academic; it's much broader. Academics is actually only one small part of it. 
OBSERVER: If co-education were to come about, how would it? Would ND and SMC go co-ed separately, together, or what? 
Julie: Mayhew and Park are consultants who have been en­gaged by both schools to do a study of a master plan of what procedure is going to be the best one for this particular Notre Dame-St. Mary's complex, and our programs probably going to be influenced by their report; our procedure for co-education is definitely going to be in­fluenced by what they recom­mend. It ranges from just separated entities, all the way into just one co-educational institution...with possibly St. Mary's as a college within the university .. .It's up to them to come up with the master plan. 
OBSERVER: What does it 
appear the consultants are going 
to propose? 
Julie: I don't think at this 
point that we can say. They're 
coming in next week, and 
Timmy and I will be among the 
students that will be...meeting 
with them. . .for discussion. 
They're taking in all the differ­
ent aspects; they're taking in the 
students, the administration, the 
staff, the faculty, just every 
aspect of the two schools. And 
they are still in the observation 
process, so they haven't even 
begun to give us the facts as to 


STARTS TOMORROW ~~A beautiful and engrossing film. Nothing short of masterly. Pure pleasure." 
-JUDITH CRIST; NEW YORK MAGAZINE 
GJJ~.UU!wrettce's 
DIE VIRGIN 
AND THE GYPSY 
FEATURE 
6:15-7:45-9:30 SUN. FROM 1:15 
what their report is going to be. 
OBSERVER: What is your corn bined commission attempt­ing to do now, in the short run? 
Julie: What we'd like to try for is kind of an open exchange between the departments. For instance the Notre Dame English department has already acknow­ledged the fact that English courses at Saint Mary's as well as at Notre Dame can fulfill their (the students') eight basic re­quirements for English at Notre Dame. However, St. Mary's hasn't yet made the same agree­ment with their students as far as allowing Notre Dame courses to fulfill the major requirements at St. Mary's. And what we're hoping to do is to iron these problems out in all the depart­ments that they are occuring in. Even the already merged depart­ments such as Speech and Drama are having their pioneer pro­blems, particularly with degrees, in the concept of a joint degree, which we would like to see in the near future. 
OBSERVER: These plans are still all with regard to academic co-education; what about the other, social, areas of co-educa­tion, which Tim mentioned? 
Tim: (There Are) several things that we're trying to do in the line of social areas...well, this commission already has done a lot of work with Mr. Price, (Mr. Edmund Price, head of the Food Service), in develop­ing the Huddle and extending the hours and getting students jobs in the Huddle itself. And, like, right now, we have many more programs already planned with Mr. Price. There's a coff~ 
by Tom Degnan "The cockroaches are gettmg so bad that we have to sleep in the halls," said John Magga yesterday commenting on the buggy pmblem of the first floor annex of St. Edward's Hall. "The roaches, at least two inche•. long, arc invading our rooms an(t crawling into our beds in droves.'' 


scheduled. 

Thursday, October 15, 1970 
THE OBSERVER Page 7 
Missouri's Farmer fights for job 
COLUMBIA, MO., -Mike "They weren't just doubtful Farmer is a candid, clear-think­of my ability -but of my ing college athlete who knows physical stamina, too," says the exactly what the score is. Jefferson City junior who had 
At this point -five games knee surgery in his freshman 
into 1970 ·-Mike is the Tigers' season here. "I don't consider No. I quarterback. He knows it myself injury prone -in fact, I -but also recognizes that the refuse to think that way." 
fellow nipping at his heels, Just ahead, the gauntlet is Chuck Roper, is an ever-present super-tough Notre Dame, threat to unseat him. Colorado, K-State and Okla­
But right now. . .well.. homa on successive Saturdays. .there's a trace of a smile when How can the Tigers best meet Mike reflects: this rugged challenge? 
"I guess the thing I feel best "We have to develop an about is that prior to this season explosive-type attack," says there were people who ques­Farmer, "and we need some tioned if I could make it as a breaks as far as injuries are Missouri quarterback. concerned." 
JIM MURRAY 
Here Come 
Da Judge 
© 1970, Los An!leles Times 

I suppose what makes the new ABC Monday night pro football show a real departure is, you have to hit yourself on the side of the head sometimes to be convinced you have't tuned in on the Bob-and-Ray Show. 
First you get Howard Cosell, the man of a thousand syllables, who comes on as if he were reading the tablets of Sinai to a group of retarded children who are hard of hearing and unfamiliar with the language. 
Howard is the master of the innocent insult. A lawyer by profession, a broadsaster by accident, he is capable of some of the most impersonal slaps in the face in the history of television. "Johnny Unitas, they say you can't throw the long ball anymore, that you're through as a long threat." Dick Butkus, they say you're an animal.' Howard's questions have a strong aura of "Have you stopped beating your wife?" about them. He doesn't interview people, he prosecutes them. He implies he wants a definite yes or no, and no volunteering from the witness. He accuses, he doesn t interrogate. The unwary might think they had tuned in on the third degree of a known child molester. 
He's beautiful. He speaks with all the deliberation of a guy who has an arrow in his chest. He treats the game as if it were a pointless interruption of an otherwise brilliant monologue. "Bot (the way he pronounces'Bart') Stah (the way he pronounces 'Starr'), they~re booing you," he may say accusingly. You expect, in the next breath to hear, "How rlo you plead?• 
Then Don Meredith comes on with a refreshing Texas twang like a harmonica around a campfire, a guy who is about to say, "Did you hear the one about ... " 
The football game. is quite incidental. They entrust that to Keith Jackson, who is quite capable but seems happy enough to stick to what's happening down on the field. 
They've saddled ABC with a few "dog" games this year-but it'~ not going to matter much: In fact, I might wish more of them were. I find Howard Cosell and Don Meredith more entertaining than a bunch of damn down-an-outs or safety blitzes. 
The charm of Meredith is, he comes on like a riverboat gambler with a heart of gold. He seems to have the life style of a guy who expects to be shot any day by a guy he dealt five aces to. Cosell is as deadly serious as an archangel. Howard feels he has to make somebody SQUIRM; Dandy, which is what the ball players call Meredith, has an"Aw, what the hell, we '11 punt" attitude. 
What Dandy is doing in a broadcasting booth is something for Dallas, Texas, to account for, anyway. He was the best quarterback the Dallas Cowboys ever had. And still could be. When he quit in 1968, he was still only 30 years old and had thrown for 17,119 yards and 135 touchdowns, and had led the Cowboys to two championship games, one of which he lost to Green Bay barely by seven points, and the other by four points. The year he quit~ he led the team to a 12-2 season record and the divisional playoffs. 
There is really no reason he should be reading defenses from a telephone booth instead of from a pocket. The Cowboys let him go with a shrug. But they· haven't done nearly as well without him, to put it nicely. 
The game I can't wait for is the Monday night game of Nov. 16 when St. Louis comes to Dallas, and so does Judge Cosell. Dandy will be keeping it light and amusing and easy on the ears when suddenly a voice from on high will come on interrogating Cowboy coach Tom Landry. "Tum? Tum Landry? They said Don Meredith couldn't win the big ones with this club. Now you can't win the little ones. Tum, will you tell the viewing audience what in the world the Dallas Cowboys are doing without Don Meredith suited up. Speak up, Tum. the microphone is over here." 
I'll tell you-that one should· make NFL Highlights Instant replay, and the Great Speeches of tne Century. All I can say is, Cowboy quarterback Craig Morton (pronounced "Maw-tun'') better have a good night-or they better put in a rule he gt!ts one call to his lawyer and is advised of his rights when he sees the hanging judge coming. 
Analyzing himself, what ad­justment does Farmer have to make to improve his effective­ness? 
The 188-pound pre-Law stu­dent puts it this way. . . "to possibly do a little less scni.m bl­ing, and a little more throwing." 
Football and golf are Farmer's chief athletic pre-occupations these days. Has football helped, or hindered, his golf game? 
"Football gives you a com­petitive instinct," says the ex­Missouri junior amateur 
champion, "that's hard to acquire just by playing golf alone." 
Okay, then, if some genie could endow you with on trait as a college qu~rterback, what would you request? 
Farmer's smile was bemused: "All quarterbacks probably would answer that one the same way. . .I'd like to have the fastest, and most accurate, re­lease in foot ball." 
Voices from the crowd 
Editor: 
In interests of Notre Dame publicity, especially that of Joe Theismann, I think the nationally televised game this Saturday is an ideal time to publicize Joe Theismann's bid for the Heismann Trophy. 
I suggest a planned effort to make a large banner which is sure to be shown to the national audience. The sign should simply read "Theismann for Heismann.'' 
Should Theismann have a great day, the announcers could not help but mention that Theismann would be a good choice. At this stage, it would take a great showing and as much publicity for Joe to beat out Archie Manning. 
I write to you _ as an influencing voice in starting such a publicity stunt. 
Thank you, 
A fan of Joe Theismann 
Frosh fencers meet Tuesday 
Freshmen, now is your chance 
to join the most winning team at 
the University of Notre Dame. 
That is the Fighting Irish fencing 
team. 
Coach Mike DeCicco has 
announced that there will be a 
meeting for all prospective 
fencers next Tuesday evening, 
October 20, at 7:00 p.m. This 
meeting will take place in the 
auditorium in the main 
concourse of the Convo Center. 
(Between the football coaches' 
and the basketball coaches' 
offices.) Anyone unable to at­
tend can call 7042 or 8469 
for information. 
No experience is necessary to 
start fencing As Coach DeCicco 
points out, there have been four 
or five All-American fencers 
who had no experience before 
coming to ND. Most varsity 
fencers are newcomers to the 
sport. 
The winning percentage of the 
fencing squad is an astronomical 
.847 and over the past four years 
their record is 744. 
DeCicco, who is the head of 
the National Fencing Coaches of 
America, will be assisted by 
former Notre Dame 
All-American John Biske. Biske 
was a foilsman in 1965. 

Missouri Quarterback Mike Farmer 
Just for the record 
compiled by Mike Pavlin 
TEAM-SEASON 
!-.) PAT(by kick)% --.942, .950 
2.) Pass Completion% --.584, .608 
3.) Touchdown Passes --18, 7 
4.) Touchdowns--55, 22 5.) PAT's by kick--49, 19 6.) Points Scored --389, 163 
7 .) Rush Attempts--663, 290 
8.) Pass Yards/Attempts--9.82, 9.23 
9.) Pass Yards/Game--210.5, 223.8 10.) Pass Yardage~-I 2105,895 II.) Total Offensive Plays--909, 387 
12.)Total Offensive Yards--5044,2178 
13.) Total Offensive Yards/Game --504.4, 544.5 
14.) First Downs by Rushing --171, 69 
15.) First Downs by Passing--106,41 
INDIVIDUAL~-SEASON 
I.) Rushing Average (min. 50 rushes)--8.11, Larry Parker 9.0 
2.) Pass Attempts--210, Joe Theismann 89 
3.) Pass Completions--116, Theismann 55 
4.) Pass Completion % --.589, Theismann .618 
5.) Lowest% Had Intercepted --3.5%, Theismann 2.2% 
6.) Total Offensive Plays--308, Theismann 138 
7.) Total Offensive Yardage --2069, Theism ann 98 7 
8.) Passing Yardage--2062, Theismann 828 
9.) Touchdown Passes--16, Theismann 7 10.) Touchdowns Responsible For--21, Theismann 9 11.) Pass Receptions --60, Tom Gatewood 36 
12.) Reception Yardage--1114, Gatewood 556 13.) Touchdown Passes Caught--9, Gatewood 4 14.) Pass Interceptions --9, Clarence Ellis 4 15.) PAT's Scored---41, Scott Hempell9 16.) Points by Kicking --61, Hempel 25 
INDIVIDUAL-CAREER 
I.) (New Record) PAT Attempts --Scott Hempel 114 
2.) (New Record) PAT Conversions --Hempel 105 
3.) PAT%--.914, Hempe1.921 
4.)Field Goals--l3,Hempel12 
5 )<-Pass Completion%--.576, Joe Theismann .576 
6.) Yards/Pass Attempt--8.38, Theismann 8.52 
7.) Total Performance Plays* --751, Theismann 572 
8.) Total Performance Yardage** --4833, Theismann 3718 
9.) Total Offensive Plays--731, Theismann 554 • 
10.) Total Offensive Yardage--4738, Theismann 3606 
11.) Touchdown Passes --28, Theismann 22 
12.) Touchdown Pass Receptions--16, Tom Gatewood (Jr.) 12 
13.) Passes Broken Up--19, Clarence Ellis (a junior) 15 
*Inculdes Rushes, Passes, Pass Receptions, Interceptions, Punts, Kick Returns, PAT's, Field Goals. **All Yardage gained except on Punts, PAT's, Field Goals. 
Page 8 Thursday, October 15, 1970
'TH/!,' O&rE/WEit
.:....:.::.:....:..-----------------~-----------· 
Reds 'May' still 
World Series 
BALTIMORE (UPI) -Lee May saved the jittery Cincinnati Reds from the ignominy of being swept in four straight games by cracking a three run eighth inning homer Wednesday to beat Brooks Robinson and the Baltimore Orioles 6-5 in the fourth game of the World Series. 
The Reds were on the brink of being the 11th team in series history to lose all four games ­trailing 5-3 mainly because Brooks Robinson continued his spectacular play with a perfect day at the plate -when May slammed Eddie Watt's first pitch for the three run homer. 
So, the Reds are alive -but barely -as they trail 3-1 going in the fifth game Thursday, needing a victory to send the series back to Cincinnati on Saturday. 
The Reds have the satisfaction of knowing they are only the third team ever to come back and win the fourth game after losing the first three. But it's little consolation for them that both of those teams promptly lost the fifth game and were eliminated.. No team has ever come back from an 0-3 deficit to win the series. 
The Reds looked like losers much of the game-making three errors -but May's homer and 3 2/3 innings of hitless relief ball by Clay Carroll, who shook his fists in the air after striking out Don Buford to end the game, kept the Reds from being eliminated.. 
A crowd of 53,007 came to see the Orioles sweep and they were delighted for most of the game. 
Brooks Robins.on, who was 4 for 4, drove in . twO' runs and scored two and it didn't seem to matter that he was thrown out at the plate by Pete Rose in the third inning because Jim Palmer allowed five hits over the first seven innings and seemed to have the game under control. 
The Reds' top two sluggers, Tony Perez and Johnny Bench, were leading off the eighth but it didn't seem to matter because both were 0 for 3 in the game 
Cites verbal abuse as major problem 
(Continued from page 2) 
ing hiring students as ground patrollers to help protect the campus. Two graduate students are presently employed as inves­tigators for the Department, and 
many undergraduates patrol the parking lots. Fr. Riehle announced that as of tonight, Alumni Hall will be 
locked at night and a guard will be stationed at the main entrance. He said that the students who were involved in the Grimmer incident wanted stronger action and wanted to form their own security squad 
Do_~e needs help 
Congressman Allard Lowen­
stein (Dem.-N. Y.), leading House 
dove and 1970 Notre Dame 
Senior Class Fellow, needs 
student help to win reelection in 
a reapportioned congressional 
district, according to organizers 
of a Notre Dame group of 
supporters. Elected through the 
aid of Notre Dame students in 
1968, Lowenstein is reported to 
be over 20,000 votes behind 
according to past voting trends 
in his new dist1ict. 
There will be an organi­zational meeting for students wanting to help Lowenstein in the campaign tonight at 7:30 in Rm. 127 Nieuwland Science Hall to discuss transportation and housing. Anyone interested in helping should be at the meeting or should call one of the following organizers: Lance Corey, 234-9632; Ed Davey, 6889; or Dennis Duggan, 8205. 
and to carry pistols. Oniy two regular c;~mpus Security men carry guns, and for their own defense, the force will soon be issued mace. 
At the chance of destroying some of the "quaint uniqueness ot the campus," floodlights will be established in the near future to illumine the Main Quad. Fr. Riehle said that for $188,000 a comples network of locks and monitors, such as found in many modern universities, could be constructed at Notre Dame_ He said that such a system would enable Security to do a better job in guarding the buildings and allow us to lay off a few men. It would pay for itself in five or six years. He felt, however, that there is very small chance that it will come about. 
The Security Department has a budget of $280,000 a year. It isn't enough, according to Fr. Riehle, and perhaps the Univer­sity had better review its 
priorities. Student driving fees and parking fines are !riven tn 
Security, but faculty members who amass as many fines as students, are exempt from 
paying them. 
Fr. Riehle appealed to the Faculty Senate to establish a much better report between the University and the Security Police. Ht! told them that they would be appalled to spend a half an hour in the guard shack 
listening to the verbal abuse that constantly born bards the men, and he urged them to build up respect for the Security forces in 
SAINT LOUIS UNIVERSrrY 
SCHOOL OF LAW 
DEAN RICHARD J. CHILDIIUI
..... 
. 
AliT. DEAN PETERIALIICH 
(A. B. N.D.-'591, 
WE WILL BE ON CAMPUS MONDAY, OCTOBER 19TH FROM 9:30 AM -4:30 PM TO TALK WITH STUDENTS ABOUT LAW SCHOOL, THE LEGAL PROFESSION, AND SAINT LOUIS UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW_ OF PARTICULAR INTEREST TO NOTRE DAME STUDENTS IS SAINT LOUIS UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW'S NEW JOINT J.D.-M.A. IN URBAN AFFAIRS PROGRAM. 
INTERVIEWS WILL BE IN THIE HAYES-HEALY BUILDING. PLEASE CONTACT DEAN ROBERT J. WADDICK OR PRE-LAW SOCIETY FOR EXACT ROOM NUMBER. 
Attention OBSERVER Staff ­General Staff Meet·i ng in the Office Friday at 4:45 
.. 
(DOME PICTURES TO BE TAKEN) 
their classes. He warned the faculty that they were in many ways as bad as the students. Doctor AI ·Miller remarked, "It's hard to expect students to be models of deportment when faculty members don't pay traf­
fic tickets and when they allow questionable actions in the dor­mitories to go unreprimanded. If we see something we don't like in the students, perhaps we had better look to ourselves-as the faculty." 
With one dissenting vote, \he Senate passed a resolution thaN\t was the sentiment of the Senate that the Provost, Pr. Burtchaell, that he convene a meeting of the Faculty and the University at large, at which Fr. Riehle would present the problem of campus security. 
and Perez was I for 13 and Bench 2 for 14 in the series. However, Palmer walked Perez on a 3-2 pitch and Bench promptly singled him to third. Manager Earl Weaver, who'd made all the right moves in the series, decided to bring on Eddie · Watt in relief for his first appearance of the series to face May. May has been the Reds' best hitter in the series. And he clouted Watt's first pitch into the left field seats as the Oriole fans watched in disbelief and the small contingent of Reds' fans cheered. May, who also singled in a run for the Reds in the third, now has six hits and eight RBis in the series after collecting 34 homers and 125 RBis during the regular season. Manager Sparky Anderson of the Reds said he's decided not to bring his second game starter ­Jim McGlothlin -back in the fifth game on Thursday. He says he'll gamble with Jim Merritt, Milt Wilcox or Wayne Granger in that game. Granger, the top relief man, didn't start a game all year and Wilcox was bombed in the second game and started only two games in September after being called up from the minors. Merritt is the team's only 20 game winner but he's been ailing and hasn't pitched in the series. Baltimore will counter with Mike Cuellar, who was shelled in the second game, as its starter. 
THE ADVENT 
Noise Reduction Units 
Background noiae in tape recording--specifically, tape hin--h a far bigger enemy of sound quality than most listeners realize. One rea•on it isn't properly identified (and vilified) il that few people have ht:~arcl, tape recordings • witho>Ut it. Lacking the standard of blessed silence is something like never having seen a television picture without ''snow". U you don't know it ian't supposed to be there, you just look or listen past it and accept it as part of the medium. But once you see--or hear--things free of interference, life is different. 
Geth.ng rid of tape noise is a prime function of the now famous Dolby Syatem of noiee reduction, which in its profesaional vereion is in uae in virtually every major recording studio in the world. The ADVENT Model I 00 Noh1e Reduction Unit now makes available a veraion of the Dolby Syatem for use with any good tape recorder. It aell• for $ZSO, 

Model 100 The Model 100 reducea tape hiu by 10 db with abaolutely no loas of fidelity or dynamic range. And for those who do not need the elaborate input controls and monitoring facility of the Model 100, there ia the Model 101. Ita performance ill identical to the Model I 00 at ~U the price, $1ZS. 
We at RMS Audio are gratified to have 
been ulected to introduce ADVENT to the South Bend area. Come in aoon 
:~:;!i:i:ea~~~~~~~:~:r:t::~;:~•-1 
cauette tape deck, and the remarkable I ADVENT loudspeaker, 
RMS_~~---~ 
