\ 
Vol. V., No. 46 Thursday, November 12, 1970 
Krashna returns as Senate head 


by Dave McCarthy 
Student Body President Dave Krashna returned last mght to serve as Chairman of the Senate. He immediately addressed an "Executive Report" to the body in which he asked the Senators to, "Quit playing games and be about serious business." 
In explaining his walkout of the Sunday night meeting Krashna said, "As Dave Krashna I could not sit here and watch the Afro-American Society budget cut; I could not be an accomplice to that." 

Dave Krashna 
Krashna noted that on Sunday night, prior to any vot­ing on whether t.o allocate $4300 to the Afro American Society, he was "quite dis­mayed" to be greeted with yawning and sighing while he addressed the Senate. he em­phasized that his walkout was "more rational than emotional." 
He said he was returning because it was his "absolute duty" as the Student Body Presi­dent; but he explained that he had done some "soul searching" since he walked out. And he advised the Senators to do the same on "the whole idea of leadership and your positions as leaders." 
"It is difficult to be a black student body president at a predominantly white, Catholic University," he said, "The Afro­American on this campus is an alienated individual." 
He emphasized that the $4300 allocation to the Afro­American Society had been defeated while an earlier motion to allocate $3000 to the Hall Presidents Council had succeeded. "Can we only have good faith with the Hall Presi­dents,'' he asked, "or can we share it with the Afro Ameri­cans'!" 
Money allotted to the HPC will be used to fund An Tostal with its slave auction and kissing marathon, and Krashna remarked that there were "bigger responsibilities" than these. "I'm the greatest exponent of good faith," he said, "but I ask you, what are 
your priorities?" 
"There is never a rationale for the subjugation of a race in the 'Home of the Brave'," he said, and later he asked, "What the hell is going on?" 
"I'm not the savior. You're the saviors of your own fate," he 
remarked. 
He continued, "It's not a 
black problem; it's a white pro­
blem. The only problem for the 
black is white people." 
"It may not look like it, but 
I'm about serious business," he 
said. He expressed disfavor with 
the "liberal rhetoric" in Senate 
proceedings terming it "abso­
lute, genuine bullshit." And he 
asked the Senators to "be about 
serious business." 
"I see an atmosphere which 
does not allow for the growth of 
an individual, except academi­
cally," he remarked; and he 
noted that sometime even such ' academic growth is stifled. 
Also among the Executive 
reports was news of the up­
coming Student Life Council 
election in Flanna and Grace 
Halls to elect a replacement for 
Glen Corso, retired SLC mem­
ber. The election is scheduled 
for November 19. Petitions may 
be picked up on Friday nights at 
the Student Government Office. 
They must be returned, with the 
required 100 signatures and 
addresse~ before 7 p.m. the 
following Sundday. 
After the reports the Senate 
got down to business and 
approved an allocation of $1500 
($175 more than requested) to 
MECHA (Mexican American 
Organization). 
It then approved a motion to 
allot $2000 to the International 
Student Leadership Institute. 


Off-Campus life for SMC 
by Jeanne Sweeney 
Discussion on the off-campus 
policy, a proposal on hall presi­
dents, and a proposal about 
open house, occupied the St. 
Mary's Student Assembly earlier 
this week. 
The Assembly repassed with­
out change the off-campus poli­
cy which they originally passed 
at the beginning of this year but 
which was defeated by the 
Board of Trustees. 
Concerning the Board's rejec­
tion of the policy Ann Marie 
Tracey said they are still not 
sure why it was defeated because 
after seven attempts to review 
the minutes of the meeting in 
October. Sr. Alma has still not 
made the minutes available to 
her. 
A proposal was presented to 
the Assembly which called for a 
school-wide election for the Hall 
Need tickets 
Eric Andrus, co-ordinator o the program to provide Georgi~ Tech tickets to South Bend youngsters, said that due to dis erepancies in lists turned in b) the Neighborhood Study Help Program, ISO student tickets are still needed. Andrus said that any students who still wished to donate their tickets should take them to the Athletic and Convo­Government officers, which would make these officers more representative of the whole stu­dent body and not solely their respective halls. 
In accordance with this pro­posal the officers would receive first choice of rooms and a salary to be determined by all the halls together. 
In addition the election would have to take place before stu­dents picked their rooms for the following year. 
The proposal was defeated primarily on the grounds that it seemed unworkable given SMC's concentration of certain classes in certain halls. It was felt that the students ability to vote in a school-wide election would be impaired since it would be diffi­cult to know the candidates well enough. 
Jackie Stone, an Assembly 
member also presented a pro­posal about a new open house policy. 
The proposal called for open houses to be held in the dorms every Sunday from the hours of 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. throughout the academic year. 
The rationale behind the poli­cy was described as inherent in the educative aims of a college, which are social as well as aca­demic in nature. It is believed that a casual social atmosphere is stifled by extremely limited :nale visitation hours. 
According to the proposal, a student, as a responsible indi­vidual, should be able to invite male friends to her room, which is her home, within a perspective of normalcy, rather than one of "special occasion. 
The basis of this proposal stemmed from the results of questionaires circulated in the halls. 
•


Gov't attends r1tes 
"This country knew Gen. 

KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. (UPI) 
DeGaulle as a steadfast ally in President Nixon cut short a 
war and a true friend in peace.Flurida vacation Tuesday to at­
Greatness knows no national tend funeral services for 
boundaries and therefore "friend" and "ally" Charles 
France's loss is the loss of man­cleGaulle in Paris Thursday and kind." arranged to take DeGaulle's 
White House Press Secretarygrandson along on the flight Ronald L. Ziegler said Nixonwith him. 

planned to wnduct no official The SLI program will take place in the Spring, and according to one spokesman, "The bulk of the ·money will be for scholar­ships for people who could not come here otherwise." 
Two halls, St. Edward's and Stanford were next on the agenda but their respective 
Senators withdrew their hall's requests for they planned to approach the HPC for funds. 
The Student Government Administration budget, ( $13, 1 00 as recommended by the Finance Committee) passed on consensus of the House as did the recommended budgets of the Community Relations Commis­sion ($180) and the Ombudsman Service ($224). 
The Off-campus Commission was allotted the recommended $100 after Off-Campus Senator Steve Novak moved it be given $750 and explained why. Novak said it was a matter of "equity." He explained that the HPC, which represents about 5200 students was allotted $3000. The Off-campus Commission represents about 14 that many students, and should the be allotted ~ as much money. Novak listed ways in which the money could be used, citing a legal aid office and alterations in the Off-campus office. 
Allocations to the National Student Association were consi­dered next, and again Novak, head of NSA spoke, defending motions to allot it $150 ( Fi na nee Committee recom­mendation) and $134-both of which failed. Finally the Senate voted to allot no money at all to NSA. 
In its final vote, the Senate approved the Finance Commit­
tee  recommendation  to  allot  
$435  to  the  Research  and  
Development Commission.  
The  meeting  ended  at  9:30  

p.m. The Senate will meet again at 7 p.m. Sunday. 


Hesburgh answers 

The following are excerpts from University President Theodore M. Hesburgh's letter to Monsignor James P. Conroy's editorial in last week's Our Sunday Visitor. The editorial attacked various aspects Notre Dame life, including the presence of Ti-Grace Atkinson on campus, the OBSt'R Vt'R 's coverage of Miss Atkinson, ·and the abortion ad that ran in the paper the week after the controversial Atkinson article. In general, Hesburgh reaffirmed the University's open speaker policy, supported the non-censorship of the OESER VER, and requested the patience ofthe Catholic community ln the educational process. 
Dear Monsignor Conroy: 
I 
~
In the interest of fairness and understanding, I must respond to 

your recent editorial on Notre Dame. I trust you will share this with your readers. 
Our students have a right to invite here speakers on a wide variety of subjects. So do our faculty members and so does the administration. The fact of :m invitation in no way suggests that we agree with whatever might be ~aid, because in every case we have no idea what will be said. It so happens that in a long list of speakers, representing every possible range of opinion on the widest range of subjects, one of our student Academic Commissioners invited a women to speak on women's liberation, a subject of great interest to young people today. I am not trying to justify his choice of a speaker. I never heard of her before she was invited. But, women's liberation is ,certainly a suitable topic for discussion in the university today. · 
It so happened that this was a sorry choice. The reasons behif1d 
the invitation were valid enough; the book written by this wo nen 
was not particularly provocative, but she did take this occasion to 
proclaim such outrageous things that she completely lost her 
audience and, by her vulgar and blasphemous language, convinced 
them that she is not a good representative of what is good in 
women's liberation. 

Our student press, which is not subject to prior censorship, decided to play the story straight and to repeat some of the more outrageous things she said in an effort to portray just how bad a performance it was. Again, one can argue about the journalistic uudgment involved here. There are those who find no fault in this treatment. Personally, I do, and so do many others here, and it is my opinion, after a discussion with the Editors, that if they had it to do all over again, the story would have been treated differently. 
It is easy to stand on the sidelines and carp. It is difficult to try to 
create in our age a great Catholic university with all the risks it 
necessarily involves. I think such a university is being created at 
Notre Dame in a way unique in all the world. If I did not believe 
this, I would not be here. I am willing to be here because I do believe 
in Notre Dame, in its past, present, and future, in its dedication to 
lour Lady as well. I am willing to take my stand with our Christian 
young people who do, indeed, make enormous mistakes from time 
to time, but who make them in good faith and in the interest of 
trying to make Christianity relevant to an age of unbelievers, 
chauvinistic Catholics, and some times insensitive elders. The 
greatest challenge to the Church today is not to discipline and 

cation Center ticket windows today between 9:00 a.m. and S:OO p.m. The tickets are desperately  "I was deeply shocked and grieved at the passing of Gen. DeGaulle," Nixon told French President Georges Pompidou in a  business during his stay in Paris. But he said the President may "pay a courtesy call" on Pompi­dou.  browbeat the young ·­it is to win young people for the Kingdom of God and His Justice and His Salvation and to do all this in freedom, by manifesting to them His Love. Very sincerely yours,  
needed, as the children are planning on attending the game.  personal letter of condolence.  Soviet Premier Alexei Kosygin also will attend the servkes.  (Rev.) Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. President  



Page 2 THE OBSERVER Thursday, November 12, 1970 
African opposition leader Tabata comments on black nationalists 


by Dave Lammers 
Mr. LB. Tabata, longtime foe of the South African govern­ment and a leader of the African opposition, recounted the devel­opment of the African opposi­tion in South Africa in a lecture in the Library Auditorium last night. 
Mr. Tabata, in exile from his native South Africa, was a co­founder of the Non-European Unity Movement and is pre­sently the head of the African Peoples Democratic Union, which operates in exile from Zambia. 
Tabata outlined the conflict­ing ideologies of the black nationalists within South Africa as they developed over the cen­

Frlcll•y, Nov. 13 8:30 Step•n Center 
Tickets: $2.50 at Student Union Ticket Office 
tury. After the establishment of the Boer and English govern­ments within the Union of South Africa, many African nationalists hoped to work through the English "liberals" in their struggle for African rights. The establishment of African Representative Councils in 1936 established "representation" of Africans in Parliament, though the rep res en tatives were white English liberals. Tabata and his compatriots boycotted the Councils, claiming that they were incapable of truly affecting the apartheid policies of the Boer power structure. The at­tempt of the South African power structure to accomodate the rising political consciousness of the Africans merely veiled the true feelings of the rulers, accor­ding to Tabata. Cecil Rhodes' view that the African population of South Africa was a " child race" dominated the apartheid policies of the .government. Tabata, who oppos'ed the inef­fective African Representation Councils, argued for "the full democratic rights" of the Afri­cans. 
During the "defiance cam­paigns" of the fifties, Tabata argued that the political leaders should have formed a "national consciousness" of all non­Europeans including Indians, Africans, Moslems, and other non-Europeans. His distrust of the Eng! ish "liberals" was 
founded on his belief that the English were trying to reconcile militant Africans to the Boer government, and on the under­estimation of the liberals of Boer nationalism. 
Tabata described the inhuman conditions of the non-Europeans 

EVERYTHING 

YOU.VE EVER WANTED TO KNOW ABOUT BEER 
(But didn't know 
plus 25¢ for postage and handling
whom to ask) 
At last ... in one great book ... a delightful mixture of lore, myth 
and anecdote never before assembled in a single volume. 
For instance, do you know how many bottles of beer it would take to 
float the battleship Missouri? Or what beer can do for orchids? You're 
planning a party and you need to know how to tap a keg, and how 
many .glasses of beer you can get from a half-barrel ... and how many 
servings you should allow per male guest ... and per female. Maybe 
beer steins intrigue you, and you'd like to know more about them. 
Search no longer ... the answers are all here in Falstaff's Complete 
Beer Book. And that's not nearly all. You'll chuckle at author Fred 
Birmingham's light-hearted history of beer ... and you'll join him in a 
brewery tour with the brewmaster as your guide. There's even a glos­
sary of little-known brewing terms ... because everyone should know 
what a "zwickel" is! And wait 'til you try "Hungerburgers" made with 
beer! 

The perfect gift for Dad ... or a fraternity brother ... or even for Uncle Charley. In fact, this deluxe paperback belongs on every book­shelf and backbar! 
I I


·--------------------------· 
I  Send $1.00 plus 25¢ postage and handling lor each copy to:  Send (  ) books.  Enclosed is $ -·-­---­ I  
I  BEER BOOK  I  
I 1  P.O. Box 23007 St. Louis, Mo. 63156  Name  I 1  
I II  ~~~~c~~:aus:t 0~:S;":! ~~~~~;:~ with order. Sorry, no COD's. (Missouri residents add 3%  Address  I I1  
I  sales tax.)  City  Stale  Zip  I  



---------------------------· 
in South Africa. Half of the black children die before the age of five. The black that work in the mines of South Africa, the economic backbone of that nation, are shot by the Army if they go on strike. African laborers are considered to be "work seekers," so that they cannot claim the right to dedent wages or the right to Strike. Africans must carry permits on their possession, and are arrested daily for failing to carry a per­mit. The eighteen million non­whites in South Africa are en­titled to only 13% of the land. 
weekend he wdl enfertam a different sort of army. 

N D to, host Pro Football 
by Jerry Lutkus 

Notre Dame Athletic DireCtor Ed Krause yesterday confirmed the story that professional football exhibition games will be played at the Notre Dame sta­dium over the summer. The plan that Krause offered has one ex­hibition game being played in the Stadium each summer over the next ten years. 
The reason behind this move by the athletic department is monetary. The 40 year old Notre Dame Stadium badly needs renovation. "We figure that it will run approximately I million dollars to renovate the stadium," Krause stated. They hope to net $1 00,000 a game and a ten-year schedule will cover the cost. 
The first game has been sche­duled and it will pit the Chicago Bears versus the Cleveland Browns on August 28. Krause stated, "We'll go with the teams who are winning. If the Bears win, it would be great to have them challenge different teams." 
Right now, however, it appears 
that the games will be scheduled 
on a year-to-year basis with win­
ning teams contracted to play. 
This plan has been in Krause's mind for the past couple of years. It almost became a reality last summer when he had the Kansas City Chiefs and the Minnesota Vikings lined up for a Super Bowl rematch, but it had to be cancelled when another event tied up all of the surround­ing parking space. 
The money netted will go toward complete renovation of the Stadium with emphasis on structural strengthening. This renovation has already begun on a section-to-section basis with the replacing of seats, but the 
Heller speech tonight 
The humanistic studies de­partment of Saint Mary's College will present Dr. Erich Heller in the first lecture of its current series on Thursday, November 
12. Dr. Heller will speak on "Bertold Brecht" at 8:00p.m. in the Little Theatre. The lecture is open to the public without charge. 
Presently Avalon Professor of 
Humanities at Northwestern 
University, Dr. Heller has served 
on the faculties of a number of 
leading universities including: 
Munich, Cambridge, Harvard, 
Yale, Chicago and California. An 
honors graduate of the German 
University in Prague, he holds 
the Ph.D. from Cambridge Uni­
versity. 
A scholar and critic on the 
German Romantic movement 
Prof. Heller has written a num~ 
ber of books on the period. 
. Among his published works are: 
The Disinherited Mind; The 


Hans Haus 
2803 So. Michigan St. Phone 291·5522 
German Food 
Our Specialty 
Created with Old World Atmos· 
phere. Specializing in Germllf\ 
and Ameriun foods . 
South Bend's Finest 
Open 10:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m. 
Banquet Roams 
Closed Sundays and Holidays The Alpme & Bavanan Rooms 

Hair Styling · ' {
for ND men the ContinerJtal Way 
I. \
Razor Cutting l Style European Layer Shaping for Long Hair 
Have Long Hair & Let Miss Treva & The Baron Be Well Groomed Serve & Pamper You 
306 S1erland Bldg. South Bend, Ind. 
Student Rates 
234-0811 B A t. 

total renovation will take in 
scats, ramps, cement, bricks, the 
facade, etc. 

"This is the only way I can get money to do it, because the profits from our football games go into the general fund. And so does our share of any bowl game. Last January it was used specifically for minority groups in the university and that proba­bly will be done again." 
The games will be limited to summer exhibitions because of league rules which have teams play a certain amount of games at their home stadiums. So, for now, Notre Dame and the South Bend area will be treated to summer exhibition games and a gradually refurbished stadium. 
Hazard of Modem Poetry; The Ironic German, a Study of Thomas Mann; and The Artist's Journey into the Interior and Other Essays. 
The Humanistic Studies Lec­ture Series, now in its 14th year, was initiated under a grant from the Lilly Endowment to demon­strate the vitality of the Western tradition and to illustrate its significance for man in the past and present. 


An official Notre Dame football, autographed by mem­bers of the varsity squad, will be raft1ed off by Sister Marilyn 
C.S.C. The raffle is being held to benefit a bazaar the Sister is running for the elderly nuns of the C.S.C. order. Tickets will be sold by the Sister in LeMans Hall lounge from 12 until 2 o'clock today. 
~---~­

-~~-,:--, 
Thursday, November 12, 1970 THR OBSERUER 




A candid interview with comedian Bob Hope 

by Ann Conway 
His theme song is ''Thank for · tlze Memory;" His fm•orite game is golj;· his business is comedy; and his name is Bob Hope. Appearing at the ACC this Satur­day night, Bob Hope is one of the biggest names in show busi­ness. He has tifJpeared in 53 motion pictures; more than 250 
T.V. specials, and has traveled the world entertaining war zone troops, college students, and people at large. 
Last night, this reporter got a chance ·to interview this man. Have you ever wondered just what to ask a man like that. I sat nervously wondering why I ever joined the Observer, and why I couldn't think of any questions. Finally 5:30 arrived and Hope's press agent called him The inter­view went like this: 
OBSERVER: Hello, Mr. Hope? HOPE: How are you? Is that fellow bothering you? OBSERVER: No, No. He's been very nice. 
HOPE: WATCH HIM? 
OBSERVER: Okay. 
HOPE: I know him. 
OBSERVER: 0-Q-0. I'm from the Observer, the student newspaper at Notre Dame, and I wanted to ask you some ques­tions. 
HOPE: Okay. 
OBSERVER: Why ilid yrn1 
accept to come and do the con­
cert at Notre Dame? 
HOPE: Well, I have a very sentimental feeling about Notre Dame, and I've known so many people connected with the uni­versity. In 1962 they gave me the Patriot's award, so I feel that I owe them something. 
OBSERVER: I hear you're 
going to be at the football game 
on Saturday too. 
HOPE: That's right. 
OBSERVER: Did you hear 
that we're number one? 
HOPE: I sure did. Well, it's a 
great team. That's really some­
thing. 
OBSERVER: You play a lot 
of college tours. Why do you 
like to play colleges? 
HOPE: I certainly do. The 
audience is so bright and smart. 
It's a great challenge to me. I 
like them because you can't do 
anything that's too smart. 
They'll grab you anytime. 
OBSERVER: Since you play 
a lot of colleges, how do you 
feel about the various youth 
movements that you see on the 
campuses, like the anti-war pro­
tests and college strikes? 
HOPE: Oh, I think they're all 
right. I have a strange philos­
ophy about it. I'm a little emo-
WE WIRE FLOWERS 
FTD FLORIST 232-3354 WYGANT FLORAL CO. 327 L.W.W. 
TYPING 
Any material, any length, charts and diagrams. $.50/page. Will pick up and deliver. Call Connie Paden 289-0177 after 4 p.m. 
The Observer Is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Ob­server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
tiona! about the conflict since I've been connected with it for so long and I just resent any­thing that hurts our chances of getting the right kind of peace and I just feel that if we'd all pull together as a nation instead of breaking up into such poli­tical factions we'd have a better chance of getting a peace which 
would serve our kids and our grandchildren. I feel that when a group like the North Vietnamese group that are over in Paris talking to Bruce could get down to what the President did during our elections. They're so con­cerned with him; they know what cities he went to and the reactions and everything like that. They're certainly waiting for our nation to revolt. And that's one thing I don't think will ever happen in this country, because I've been around it and I've played in all sections of the country and most of the people are very patriotic and love our country. And I just think it's a shame we can't get together and pull together and realize that every time somebody stands up and yells "Peace" -one poli­tician demands peace right then -I think it's hurt us and pro­bably costs us American lives. And that's all I'm concerned 
with. 
OBSERVER: Well, then you see the anti-war protests as healthy or really destructive acti­vities. 
HOPE: I don't think they're constructive at all. I don't think it can help us and I think it delays our getting a peace. 
OBSERVER: You go back to Vietnam every Christmas. Why do you keep going back? 
HOPE: Well, I've been doing it for so many years that it's sort of our annual trek. We know what it means to the kids over there, and the requests we have for it, and the fact that the Pentagon wants us to do it all the time. You have to really travel the gratification of this kind of thing because there's no way we could put this show tqgether ·over here for the volun­teers we get. This year we're taking Johnny Bench, the great catcher from Cincinnati; and you couldn't put this show to­gether for a domestic show over here. We take it to the jungles of 
Vietnam, and Bangkok, Korea, 
Alaska, Germany, England, 
Greece and Saudi Arabia. That's 
our trip this year. It's a pretty 
exciting trip for everybody con­
cerned, not only the troops but 
for us too. 

It breaks up the monotony for the men, but when they hear that we're coming, they don't know the exact date, but they get a real kick out of it. It's something to look forward to because there's one thing that they enjoy and that's looking at beautiful gals and that's some­thing we try to bring them. That and laughs. 
OBSERVER: Do you think that the present administration, Mr. Nixon's administration, is doing a good job at trying to end the war? 
HOPE: I think they're doing a fantastic job. I really do. I just don't think you could wind this war up any quicker, and again it's difficult to wind up a war and make a peace and convince the enemy like this enemy and we know we're all fighting a common enemy -if you were connected with it you'd realize it -and we're fighting one common enemy and it's one we have to be very worried about. And I think he's doing a fine job and I think he's convinced them that we mean business and they have to make a peace and I think also that we strengthen the South Vietnamese forces and even the Cambodian forces to the extent where they can hold their own. And get our boys out. Now if we can get our boys out by '70 or the end of '71 I think he'll go down in history as doing something very important for the salvation of all of Southeast Asia. 
OBSERVER: My roommates 
really wanted me to ask you 
about the women's liberation, 
how you feel about that? 

HOPE: I'm in favor of any 
women's movements. No; I like 
women as what they are; I like 
them as girls. I don't want them 
as truck drivers. 

OBSERVER: Well, t don't 
think they'd be truck drivers. 

H<:>PE: Wen; ye'ah, I think ·so. 
I can see· the.m start taking over 
the jobs. I think so. I can see 
Totie Fields driving a truck (ap­
preciative laugh) and Phyllis 
Diller as a Roto Rooter man. 

OBSERVER: I don't know about that. HOPE: (laughing) HONEY, I'm not serious. OBSERVER: Everyone out 
VICTORY CELEBRATION 
NO OVER GEORGIA TECH 
FREE REFRESHMENTS 
Stanford Hall Rathskellar Sat. Nov. 14 8:00 P.M. Admission $1.50 
TACO BELL IS A NICE PLACE TO EAT 
625 W. McKinley; across from Gales; Mishawaka 
here is looking forward to your visit. There are only a few seats left. 
HOPE: I can't wait to see your team. OBSERVER: Listen, we w got the world's best team. 
HOPE: And I want to invite Ara to the Desert Classic because he played there a couple of years ago. He's a good guy. 
And with that the interview ended. I was rather sad about it. f!ob Hope seem to me a genuine, mterested person. I admit it __ I was impressed. And I'm look­ing forward to seeing him. So I guess working for the Observer ~oes really have its compensa­tzons. To coin a phrase, "Thanks for the memory." 
Latest in Bells, Body-shirts, un-suits, vests Posters & Things ON THE MALL TOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTRE (Mishawaka)  
ATTENTION! MONITORSandDRIVERS for Georgia Tech Game There will be a meeting of the DRIVERS for this Saturday's Georgia Tech game tonite, at 9:00 p.m. in the Ballroom of the Student Center. It will be a short meeting. All MONITORS will meet in the Ballroom at 9:30 p.m., tonite, also. YOUR ATTENDANCE IS IMPERATIVE. for information contact: Eric Andrus 7888  

FOX'S 
DIRECT DIAMOND 
IMPORTERS 
At Fox's you get a bigger 
better quality diamond for 
less money! 
FIRST LOVE DIAMOND RING • SOUTH BEND 
.MISHAWAKA

$19. 
Notre Dame Accounts T;Jelcome 
---~-~--------~­


We Ought lo Have Soph Cars. 
The proposal presented to the SLC last Monday by the Sophomore Class concerning the feasibility of Sophomore car privileges was an excellent one and deserves top consideration from the Council. 
The class detailed several possible locations for the lot, the best of which seems to be the area beside the aerospace building. Any faculty cars which park there now, plus any more cars which would result from the opening of the new biology building could be shunted to the area behind the stadium. This would leave the lot free for its assigned purpose as an overflow area for ACC parking. ' 
The University has already shown their efficiency in landscaping and the like when they set up the grounds outside Flanner and Grace last year in time for their dedication. This was done in a fairly short time, and there is no reason why the lot could not be overlaid with gravel equally fast, before the worst part of the winter sets in. 
The additional cars, perhaps 400 in number, will bring in more than enough revenue to defray any additional expenses in~mred in setting up the lot. There will be increased demands for security but these can be met by hiring more students to patrol, rather than outsiders. As for additional lighting, while the University would not get back their original investment the first year, they would in subsequent years. 
In short we believe that Sophomore cars are a good and feasible idea. We urge the Student Life Council to act favorably upon this matter with all possible dispatch. 
The Delay has Hurt 
The past two weeks has seen a wierd and inexcusable delay in executing the Senate's directive to set up elections in the towers to choose the successor to resigned SLC member Glen Corso. Since Mr. Corso's resignation, in fact, twenty-two days have passed. Twenty-two days with only seven student representatives on the Student Life Council; twenty-two days in which serious and important business could have been delayed for lack of complete representation. 
Fortunately, as is its wont, the Student Life Council has not considered any serious and important business for the past twenty-two days. For this we are indebted to reasons beyond mere lack of student representation. Nonetheless, the fact that for nearly a month the SLC was deficient of student representation is a disconcerting one. The fact that the SLC was deficient of student representation because of the inefficiency of other students approaches the absurd. 
The fault, we fear, lies squarely with Mr. Krashna. As head of the Election Committee, he has had ample clarification from the Senate of that body's desire to deal wi'th the question. As head of the Election Committee, it was his obligation to call the ele1ction committee together to set terms of the election. He has not called that committee together. He has failed. 
In the end, almost through executive fiat, Mr. Krashna has set the date for the election on November 19. Although The Observer does not agree with the unilateral nature of his decision; although The Observer is most unimpressed with the delay he has taken in finally implementing the Stt1ate's expressed will, we are glad that the action has been finally taken. 
The Boys in the Shop 
Managing Editor: Bill Carter Editorial Page Editor: T.C. Treanor Features Editor: Dave Lam­Night Editor: Jim Graif mers Layout Design: Jim Farrington Sports Editor: Terry Shields 
Headlines: Dan Nye 

SMC News Editor: Jtlanne 
Layout: Joe Anderson 

Sweeney 
Joe Abell 

Associate Editors: Dave Stauf­fer, Sue Bury 

Joe Schlosser & Dennis Barthel 


In Extremis 
While stumbling along my daily path of Existence here, I came 
upon a !laming controversy currently raging in the minds of most 
of the concerned individuals on campus. There are already a 
countless number of hats that have been thrown into the ring, so 
I feel no guilt in tossing my own in too. I'm at a loss for an 
opinion; I just wonder what it's all about. Not the regular kind 
of wonder that's bred from lack of information, then I would he 
gullty. All the information is there for the interested mind, in fact 
('!) it takes up a majority of our Newspaper Daily now. 
Everybody who's "in" now, knows that Ti Grace isn't J. Peter's 
sister, (Jet alone the benefactor of the tower), and God forbid if 
you don't realize by now that the Crislicisms of Revs. Pursley and' 
Conroy carry with them the "prayers and confidence of Catholics 
throughout the world" for Notre Dame. 
For Notre Dame, about Notre Dame, Notre Dame and the 
Church, Notre Dame and Our Lady, Notre Dame and abortion, 
the words come in from all corners, expressing their concern 
about the Image of Notre Dame and the Notre Dame Man. That's 
about us, gentlemen, rmemmber? We are those Notre Dame men 
who, ~ometime within 4 years will all emerge complete with a 
certain set of ideals for the asking. 
Undoubtedly everyone, all those with an Image of Notre 
Dame, awaits this great moment when we can finally be 
considrered Notre Dame "men." My question, brothers, is, before 
the Metamorphis-what? 
Right now it's tension, tension bred from the simultaneous 
existance of a well nutured and fostered "imagew of someone's 
creation called a Notre Dame man, and the undeniable presence 
of the reality of ourselves. 
The image of the Notre Dame man was blatantly insulted and 
shocked by the badmouthing of Miss Atkinson. Many of the 
Notre Dame men, themselves, it seems were also upset; so much 
so, that they felt it necessary to make an act of Reparation to 
Our Lady. Others -the majority of our men -deemed it 
necessary to take no special action, but just to continue the daily 
existence they find themselves in -an existence which, by any 
informal examination would show completely natural and casual 
use of those same words in slandering equally sacred concepts and 
many others even more basically sacred -the people around us. 
(A word of caution here to the unbiased observer-the word. To 
word ratio might be slightly higher on Friday or Saturday 
evenings.) 
It all continued. Those concerned about the image are frantic in criticism of our official publication, to them hopefully designed in itself, to promote and keep watchguard on the qualities that compose our image, that it would allow womanhood and morality to be degraded to such a point as publishing an ad on abortion and reporting taboo words. These are not for our eyes. They are not proper for creating those ideals that result in the Notre Dame Man. Hut the ads for skin !licks, the behavior of the crowds at the movie "the Graduate", the perversions of drunken evenings and playing "Pass the Babe up and over" at Saturday football games, and the open embracement of the panty raid philosophy-all these continue, and arc dismissed by the image makers in "Boys will be buys" rationalizations which serve somehow to grotesquely twist these insanities into part of our "healthy" development into manhood­Notre Dame Manhood. 
Don't you think it's far beyond the time to need the help of outsiders in creating or destorying a myth of ourselves'? Isn't it time to stop playing your shock and alarm or sadistic pleasures 
off as somebody else's perversion on Sin? If reparations need to 
be made, let's be fair, and look closer to ourselves and that reality 
rather than to our Image. 
l~'s tru~y sad to be caught projecting an image to cover up a r~al~ty. It s truly sad that an image exists in the first place, as dtstmct from reality. But it's plain absurd to spend weeks in 
controversy over it all. I d~n 't really want to end this, at least not in any way dramattc, because I'm part of it myself-I'm just wondering if • somebody would clue me in. 


T.:._h:..:_u:....r.:..sd:....a:..:.Y.:..·._N_o_ve_m_b_e_r_1_2.:..,_19_7_0_________________ ___'[H~ OBSE/WER. Page 5 
Rev. Robert Griffin 




Roses for Our Lady 

On my birthday, this year, a single, 
long-stemmed red rose appeared in an 
amber-colored vase on the altar where I 
was about to celebrate Mass. Attached to 
this gift of f1ower and urn was a card 
reading simply: "From your lady love." 
In a lifetime like mine, if it is a question 
of lovers, there is seldom any mystery as 
to the lady's identity, since all the lady 
loves totalled together could be counted 
with ease on one hand. In this instance, 
the girl who came bearing the birthday 
rose was a f1ower-child of Regina Hall, 
and the date was October 7th, the feast 
of the Rosary. 
Since its arrival with that first dear 
flower, the am her-colored vase has never been empty; and with the exception of that first rose, all the other roses have been taken-with the hope he won't really mind from the bouquet that lends its musky beauty in tribute at the tomb of Cardinal O'Hara in Sacred Heart 
Church. 
One knows, if these words are ever 
printed, the quiet filching of the 
Cardinal's roses must stop. In the 
meantime, one can be grateful for having 
lived, through these flowers, with the 
memory of O'Hara and of the times he 
also served this campus as chaplain. 
For those who believe that religion belongs to the department of the imagination, nothing very useful can be said about the Church as it existed in the decade of the Forties. But around the beginning of the decade, close to the time O'Hara was preparing to leave Notre Dame to serve as bishop. a Jew named Franz Werfel wrote a book in fulfillment of a promise of gratitude made to God and Our Lady for having escaped the death camps of Hitler's Europe. The hook was called Song of Bernadette; its central premise was that the Mother of God had appeared on earth in these latter days to delightfully visit a French peasant girl named Bernadette Souhirious. Afterwards, as though to relieve the embarrassment of the child, who was promptly declared to be an idiot for her pretensions, God seemed to send miracles of healing to thr. spot where His Mother was reported to have held dangling conversations in the nice of a grotto. 
Bernadette's story, as told by a Jew who rejected Christian Baptism as a 
Tom Tolfa•son 
betrayal of his people during the most destructive pogrom of their tragic history, was like a balm in Gilead to a world broken apart hy war. I myself, as a New England schoolboy, read the hook. lmncdiately, I fell in love with the Ladv dressed in light who side-stepped the 

Omnipotence--with ckmands that her petitoners be freed from the travails of life in suburbia. One remembers with embarrassment a book written by an over-zealous theologian on the theme that where Christ is, there is Mary also; as a corollary, it was argued, we should 

theologians and snubbed the Pope and spent her afternoons, early and late, worrying like a prophet of gloom about the decay of the age, to a child who should have been home helping with the housework. Because I also loved the legends and traditions of Mary that have been carved upon stone and splashed upon canvas and set to music in the verses of Dante, I began that shift of religious allegiances that resulted in my conditional Baptism as a Catholic in 
I ':145. 
The difficulty of believing in Mary, whether in or out of the Church, is that one is constantly embarrassed by the tastelessness and superstitions of her other friends. Whatever else is involved, reverence towards Mary is not a matter of accepting plastic images that glow on dashboards, or perpetual novenas in memory of the hardships of her life, or scapulars worn as a passport from purgatory on the first Saturday after death; or magic incantations rl'?~i~~::d to send ner lu the throne of grace -presumably, at times, in a foot-stomping rage at the failure of affirm the real presence of Mary in the Eucharist, since the good woman would 11ever tolerate being separated from her Son. Fortunately, nobody accepted the thesis of the book; but it is not completely untypical of the excesses of an age when paraliturgical devotions abounded because the Mass was prayed in dead languages, and because the Church was forgetful enough. in the Liturgy, of the humanity of Jesus that Mary and the 

saints were constantly needed to intercede between our sinful condition and His glory as the Only-begotten Child of the Father. 
I am regretful of people who speak criticisms of Mary, when actually they no more believe in her existence than they do that of the Velveteen Rabbit. But I am embarrassed by people who feel conscience-bound to make acts of reparation to Mary for the insults of the times. In any scheme of Catholic theo­logy, Mary lives in the presence of Persons who are constantly being maligned, and the necessity of making reparation to .;elestial beings seems to me to leave us wide open to misunder­standing as to what we really believe to be true of this God of ours Who exposed His life to the blasphemy of the cruci­fixion. 
I am embarrassed by churchmen who write about Mary as though the thumb­prints of her existence were everywhere smudged on the mirror of creation. On this campus, which has recently passed through the death of God crisis in theo­logy and where some students are nearly always trying to come to grips with the acceptance of Jesus as the Lord of life, one must be very cautious of the dog­matic affirmations that one Jays upon the minds of the young, especially when those dogmas have been distorted enough by our culture to seem like updated versions of the pagan myths. 
Finally, I am embarrassed by students who publicly heap abuse and ridicule upon the Bishop of the diocese. One may doubt the existence of God; one may be skeptical of the doctrines of Mary. But one thing is certain: the Bishop is alive and well (I hope you are, sir), and living in Fort Wayne, Indiana. One may disagree with the Bishop, but one cannot shame him without, at the same time, shaming himself and all of Notre Dame. 
I have written words that will probably offend nearly everybody, but I write them because a quarter of century ago, l fell in Jove with a school and a Lady-the same school and the same Lady that were loved by the gentle shepherd lying in mitred rest in the shadows of Sacred Heart. It was at this school, through the traditions of religion shaped by O'Hara, that Our Lady became more real to me than anything I could find in the song of Bernadette, or in the stone of Chartres, or on the canvases of Raphael, or in the final pages of the Paradiso. 
So, gentle Shepherd, I will no longer take your roses; it is only your example that I need. Pray for me to the gentle Mother whose image is poised on the dome of gold. Pray for me to the Lady whose candles flicker in the night breezes from the lake. · 

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:!:~:~:~:~:~:::~:::-~.;; 
Drugs and the Culture
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:=:=:~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Drugs present areas of study and exper­ience that are many faceted. The facts, the scientific facts, about drugs are some­thing better presented in a table in one of the handouts of the Student Drug Infor­mation Center than here. So, I guess the subject will be more of an attempt to look at one or two of the various aspects of drug use and abuse. 
If drug use is mentioned to groups in "the outside world," visions of California hippie communes, secretive pill parties, and New York dope fiends (ala Harry Anslinger) come to the minds of the audience. One can see and feel the disgust that flows from these fine citizens to the "radicals" of the drug culture who are working to bring down the society that the "straights" have worked so hard to establish. 1\nd yet, there exists a very real credibility gap between the thoughts and the actions of this critical group. The average American consumes per year: 
2.48 gallons of hard liquor, 26.6 gallons of beer, 3,993 cigarettes, many prescribed pills and placebos, and many tablespoons of tonics, cough medicines, laxatives, etc. 
The fact that drugs have become such an important part of our culture is fur­ther illustrated by the possibilities open to the housewife. She gets up in the morning and has two or three cups of coffee to get moving. After she gets the kids off to school, she may celebrate by having another cup of coffee. Her hus­and comes home for lunch, and they both sit down to have a "bracer" made 
with some gin. Coffee follows the meal. 
After the meal, the housewife remembers to take her weight pill. Around 4, she finds herself a little tired. She recalls that she had bought one of those "pick-me­up'' drugs that is advertised on the tele­visior;. So, she takes one of those. At 5, her husband comes home and they dis­cuss the day-·-over two Manhattans. With uinner, both have wine. After dinner, both have coffee. About I0, when the kids have gone to bed, the couple sit down over a bit of creme de menthe and watch the television. A little later, both decide it is about time to get some sleep. The husband gets to sleep quickly. But the wife. worrying about the arrange­ments for her bridge club the next day, can't quite get to sleep. After remaining awake for fifteen minutes---remember­ing a popular advertisement on the tele­vision--she decides she had better take a sleeping pill. The routine continues the same every day with very little variation. 
The significant use of drugs by the "establishment" segment of our society makes their criticism of the "drug cul­ture" a bit suspect. Mom and Dad approach their s~n to talk about drug use with a cigarette, a diet pill, a dry martini, and a sleeping pill close at hand. Then they say, "If we ever catch you using drugs, we will throw you out of the house. The dichotomy is not lost on their son. 
Such monologues are not uncommon in "discourse" on drugs. Each time it is done, the hypocritical nature of the criti­cism becomes more apparent. 

One of the most disturbing manifesta­tions of su::h uninformed diatribe is that of the federal government and its offi­
cials. Over the past several decades, the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs has un certaken to reduce drug use by attempting to scare people. Although the Bureau has greatly reduced its reliance on this technique, it is still used to some ex­tent. Yet, uninformed scare techniques are at their most dangerous when they are exercised by a prominent official. V. P. Spiro Agnew attempted in a recent speech to establish a causal relationship between popular music containing allu­sions to the drug culture and an increase in drug <. buse. Such spaci0us reasoning can only lead to skepticism of factual, well researched pre~entations on the 
individual and society. 
· There also exists some inconsistery:y in the thought of the "non-establishment'." Research has pinpointed curiousity and the desire to overstep the bounds of conduct that society has set. In attempt­ing to reject society by the use of drugs, the individuals are really only manifesting openly a tendency that is deeply en­trenched in the American culture. Thus, the use of drugs as a means of rejecting society becomes incredibly ironic. 
The student Drug Information Center is attempting to supply information that will not he a deliberate diatribe for or against the use of drugs. Rather, the Cen­ter is attempting to collect and distribute factual information regarding the effects of drugs. The Center also hopes to intro­duce the idea that drug use is not just a medical concern, but that it is also a psychological concern, a social concern, a religious concern, and a personal concern. All of these various aspects of the indivi­dual and his society enter into a discus­sion of drug use and abuse. Medically, of course, the drug abuse (as opposed to drug use) can cause permanent physical demamge and disability. This is especially true of the opiates and barbiturates. Psychologically, drug use can affect the psyche of each user in a different way, and it can affect the individual user dif­ferently in llifferent circumstances. Socially, drug use or abuse can change one's relationships with those around him. The use of drugs may turn some 
friends or neighbors off. Groups of friends may change. Some individuals have found drugs to be an aid to gaining greater insight into God and themselves. The possibility of LSD or any other drug aiding religious practice have not been disproven. Personally, the use of drugs can change the emphasis, ambition, and life style of an individual. The nature of these changes and their desirability have barely been touched on. Much research by the physical, biological, and social scientists is necessary before definitive statements can be made in this area. 
It is hoped that the Student Drug In­formation Center will be able to keep a steady flow of information available to you covering all the aspects of drug use and abuse. If you are interested, or have any suggestions, call. We're interested. 


Page 6 
WE TAKE TillS OPPORTUNITY TO THANK NOTRE DAME & SMC FOR THE OONDERFUL RECEPTION AND HOPE YOU CONTINUE TO PATRONIZE 
IIOIIA'S PIZZA LOUNCE 
219 N. MICHIGAN TEL 234-3258 
IIOOM DEL.IVIEIIY -DISCOUNT 28% 4-7 PM DAILY 
(with this ad) 
Applications now being accepted for student mem­bership on University Academic Council. 
Submit name and statement of purpose to student chairman c/o appropriate Dean's office. 
Arts & Letters -Ed McCartin 
Busllless -Robert Bramlette 
Engineering­Robert Jenson 
Science -Thomas Kenny 

General ElectricS been building bigger jet enginesfor30 years.
When are theygoing to start buildingcleaner 





jetengines? 
The legalization ofabortion in some states has prompted the emergence of agencies designed to serve as professional coun­seling and guidance centers to women who are considering abortions. Their advocates argue that they provide a safe place for a woman to have an abortion-a place away from the backroom butchers of the states where abortion is still prohibited. Those who disagree, such as Mrs. Ann Thatcher, South Bend's P tanned Parenthood chapter president, term the agencies "exploiters. " As a result of the controversy with the abortion agency ad published last week in The Observer, an Observer re­porter called the New Yark Abortion Referral Agency. The 
following is a description of the telephone call. 
When I called the agency, I really didn't know what to ex­pect. The woman was very friendly and immediately tried to establish a rapport with me hy consoling me about my prob-
Observer Insight 

!em. In soothing tones she all­vised me not to rush into any­thing. I explained to her that I wasn't quite convinced that abortion was the answer to my problem. She responded by giving me a Jist of things to think about: to avoid psychological problems, have the abortion; to avoid parental problems, have the abortion; to avoid scholastic problems, have the abortion; to 
Not many people know that General Electric started building a jet engine in 1941. America's first jet engine. 
That jet produced only 1200 pounds of thrust. 
Our newest jet, for the DC-10, produces around 50,000 pounds of thrust. 
In the early days of jet aviation, the important thing was thrust. 
But suddenly our skies are filled with jets. And, suddenly, jet pollution is a major problem. 
General Electric tackled it head on when building the DC-10 engines. And we accomplished two things. 
When you see the DC-10 take to the air, you'll see no black marks against the sky. Because the engines make virtually no smoke. 
Of course, there's more to jet exhaust than just smoke. Our goal is someday to make jets run totally dean. 
Another problem with jets is noise. If you've ever lived anywhere near an airport, we don't have to tell you that. 
General Electric has been working on noise, too. 
GE was chosen by the federal government to help solve this problem for the aviation industry. At present, we know of no way a powerful turbofan engine can be made noiseless. But we've made progress in that direction. 
The DC-10 engines, for instance, are quieter than any jet engines on the passenger planes of the Sixties. Quieter, even though they're more than three times as powerful. 
We have more work to do before we'll satisfy all the people concerned about jet pollution, ourselves included. But because we've been working at it since the mid-Fifties, before it was widely recognized as much of a problem, 
GENERAL. ELECTRIC 
Thursday, November 12,1970 

Abortion agency contacted 
we've already crossed some important hurdles. 
Why are we running this adl 
We're running this ad, and others like it, to tell you the things General Electric is doing to solve the problems of man and his environment today. 
The problems concern us because they concern you. We're a business and you are potential customers and employees. 
But there's another, more important reason. These problems will affect the future of this country and this planet. We have a stake in that future. As businessmen. And, simply, as people. 
We invite your comments. Please write to General Electric, 570 Lexington Ave., New York, N.Y. 10022. 
avoid dating problems, have the abortion; to avoid financial 
problems, have the aburtinn. "A lot of women who do have children are also faced by these problems, but they have the child,"' I wondered. She con tinued, however, by stating, "It' a beautiful thing to be a mother but you have to be rationa about it." 
After this information, I mus have seemed a little more hesi tant than the rest of their callers because the receptionist cau tioned me not to "wait around because you are dealing with a human life." She quoted a list of prices for the various services . that the agency makes referrals on: 2-3 day stay in the hospital for a saline evacuation ( $660) or a D-C ($235), which she said "might not work." But what I really needed wasn't prices, bu professional counseling just as the ad in The Observer had promised. So I again explained to her all of my qualms: I am a college sophomore, I am a Catholic, I am three months pregnant, I don't want my par ents to find out. "Perhaps you should go to see a psychologist,' she suggested. "After all, I am just a woman who is concerned about other women.Maybe you should go to see a liberal priest he may be able to help you." 
By this time, I was in a real predicament. So, again, I asked her if there was anything tha the agency could do. She quick ly closed the conversation by saying that I should send a check to them immediately as a de posit. Wiring them the money would even be better, she said and then they could help me even more. 
Observer faces compejtion 
An announcement was made 
over WSND's Don Mooney show 
last night by a group of student 
who proclaimed their intention 
of starting a weekly news maga­
zine 011 campus. The publica­
tion, titled 'The New Voice", 
will be headed by ex-Studen 
Governm.e.nt ··executive co­
ordinator ·and Senator from 
Sorin Hall Chuck Ryan, who will 
fill the post of publisher. Ryan 
introduced James Holsinger, ex 
News Editor, former Associate 
Editor and recently dismissed 
Circulation Manager for The 
Observer as editor. 
Ryan claimed that the ration ale behind the paper was because of deficiencies on the part of The Observer. Included in the list of deficiencies was poor and dishonest news coverage by The Observer. Holsinger stated that the purpose of the weekly would be to provide in-depth analysis that is not found in The Ohserver. 

,•••••••••1 
• • • 
YOU CAN CALL • KEN KABLE • 
AT6428 • 
EARTHLIGHT 
IS COMING TO N.D. 
If you missed them at Woodstock, now ;s vour chance 

Thursday, November 12, 1970______________________________~-~--~___()._~---~---~--~--------------------------------------------~P~a~g~e~7 
Not forgotten by those who know 

by Terry Shields 

DiNardo came up with his leg different attitude on this year'sObserver Sportswriter injury. Kos explains, "I am not team. I think it started with the"I don't really feel forgotten what you would call a holler Purdue game. Winning, andout on the field. The team guy. Actually, I am sort of quiet, winning big like we did, gave usknows the job we do. They but once Larry was out of the some tremendous momentum. Iknow that offensive linemen starting lineup, I felt that being a re?lly don't believe that thishave a tough job to perform. senior, I should talk things up a team has reached its full poten­Maybe the people in the stands bit and keep everybody from tial yet. On any given Saturdayand press box might forget getting tight." we can go out and beat anyoneabout us but the team knows He must have succeeded at in the country."wlUh we're doing and their this because the line, which was Gary wasn't speaking idlyrespect is what is most impor­considered suspect before the about the prospects for the Irishtant to me." Gary Kos, a man season has now proven to be one this season. He is an avidwho has spent his entire football of the many strong points for watcher of the UP! and AP pollscareer in what ball players call the nationally ranked Irish. Gary: that come out every week. He"the pit" (interior line), was says, "I feel that the line has ' states, "If we were in a confer­voicing his opinion about the. come along real well. Mike ence where, if we won theforgotten man on the football 
Creaney, a sophomore, has championship, the polls
field, the offensive lineman. played real well at tight end. wouldn't mean that much to us). , Gary is th~ right guard on one Dan Novakov and Larry are because we could be assured of aof the best attacking lines in starters from the end of last bowl bid. Since we're not, ourcollege football. If he were at season, so we knew what they goal is to be Number One. They an:Jther school he could possibly could do. We also knew that (the polls) may not be the mostbe worthy of an All-America John Dampeer always had the efficient way to proclaim alabel, but since hi~ running mate ability but he was injured for a team's strength but all I know isat left guard is a fellow named full season. He has bounced back that every Tuesday I buy aLarry DiNardo, it's hard to con­well. Mike Martin has been newspaper."vince writers that one team can plagued with leg problems but. The final comment that thehave two All-America guards. he has fought off all those hurts rugged guard made was one thatThis lack of publicity has done and given us a fine job at tackle. many other members of thelittle to hinder Kos' style of Another thing that impressed me 1970 Fighting Irish have stated.play. He is still a vicious blocker with this team is the depth. "This team is really close. It mayand great pass protector. Just Denny DePremio and Jim Hum­sound kind of corny but I really ask Joe Theismann, who is rarely bert have filled in remarkably believe that we're like a bigforced to use his scrambling well for Larry and Mike Martin." family. There are no cliquesability. The Minneapolis native also or groups. It's really just a great

Gary has become a sort of had a few things to say about bunch 'of guys trying to prove

leader for the other offensive linemen especially when the team in general. "There is a' that we're the best around." 
Need divers 
Irish face 'best Ga. Tech tackle'
The  Notre  Dame  varsity  
w<imming team  needs six divers  
desparately.  If  you  have  any  Renso  "Rock"  Perdoni,  a  Rock  has  impressed  me  more  great.  ..were  today. I wouldn't  tackles  and  has  made  possible  
e.Aperience in diving please con­ native  of  Milan,  Italy,  whose  than any  other player with his  say either one  won, if compari­ several  Georgia  Tech  intercep­ 
tact  George  Block  at  6808 for  family  moved  to  the  United  performances and his dedication  sons must be made."  tions  by hitting the opponent's  
details  concerning practice and  States  when  he  was  seven,  is  to  become  the  great  football  Kell  told  reports  after  the  quarterback just as he was releas­ 
other requirements.  certain to be listed as one of the  player that  he is..  .It's  a  real  game:  "I  think I held my  own  ing the football.  
Boog is MVP  great tackles in Georgia Football history. Perdoni, 5-11 and  Tech 236  pleasure to be able to associate with and work with a player who wants to be an outstanding  but Perdoni's a great player. . . why, he made one tackle lying down after I had blocked him."  Most football coaches, players and fans in this part of the  
NEW YORK (UP!) -Boog Powell slugging first baseman of the world champion Baltimore Orioles said today he was "elated" at being chosen the American League's Most Valu­ pounds, came to Tech last season from Ferrum (Virginia) Junior College where he had received All-America recognition and had been named "Junior College National Lineman of the  one. . . and works at it as Per doni has." Coach Carson also repeated an offer he had made before to "send films to anyone who has any doubts that Perdoni is an  Much of Georgia Tech's fine 7-2-0 record to this date can be directly attributed to the play of the Jackets' "front four," led by Perdoni. After seven games Per­doni has been credited with 73  country agree with veteran Atlanta Constitution Sports Editor Jesse Outlar who cans Perdoni "The Best Georgia tackle I've seen in the 24 years I have been in Atlanta."  
able  Player and added "I think  Year" after the 1968 season. He  All-America football player."  
it's the highest honor in sports.  proceeded  to  have  a great year  Perhaps  the  most  interesting  
"I didn't  think  I would  be  for  the  Yellow  Jackets,  being  quote of the  season  to date on  
this  happy  because  I  kind  of  credited  (from  films)  with I 05  Perduni was made by University  
expected  it" said  the  6 foot 4  tackles  and  with  throwing  of Miami Guard Garry Vujanov.  
inch  250 pound  veteran  at  his  opposing  quarterbacks  for  82  Talking to the Atlanta Constitu­ 
Miami  Fla. home.  "During the  yards in losses. He was named in  tion's  Hal  Hayes in  the  Miami  
World Series all the writers told  I 969  to  many  All-America  locker  room  after  the  Georgia  
me I was a shoo-in because they  second and third teams.  Tech-Miami  game  (which  Tech  
voted for  me.  But they told me  As  a result of his outstanding  won 31-21), the 6-3, 252pound  
the  same  thing last  year.  Now  play in I 969 Per doni's name was  Vujanov declared: "He (Perdoni)  
it's  finally  happened  and  I'm  listed on most of the 1970 "Pre­ is absolutely unbelievable  ..He's  
really excited."  season"  All-America  lists.  In  the fastest  man I've ever seen in  
Powell who hatted .297 with  Tech's  nine  games  played  to  my  whole life.  I don't  think I  
3 5 homers and  I 14 runs batted  date  (the  Yellow  Jackets  are  touched  him  other  than  to  
in  last  season  won  the  award  7-2-0  as  this  is  written  with  touch his hand  at the end  -all  
easily  with  I I of a  po~sible  24  NO  coming  up  Saturday)  he  day long...after the snap...and  
first place votes and 234 points.  has  certainly  lived  up  to  that  he'd he gone. He'd pop me and  
Tony  Liva  of the  Minnesota  pre-season rating.  be  gone  almost before I knew  
Twins  was  second  with  157  Georgia Tech Coach Bud Car­ what was happening.  
points followed by 1969 winnc;  son,  speaking this week  to the  "And what a lick he's got! .. .I  
Harmon Killebrew  ot the Twins  Atlanta  Quarterback  (Nov.  heard  that  somebody (an  FSU  
with  152 and Carl Yastrzemski  I Oth),  said  of  Per doni:  "I've  player) said last week that Per­ 
of  the  Boston  R~::d  Sox  with  been in football for 27 years and  doni only had his strength going  
136.  for  him. Well, that's the silliest  
thing  I  ever  heard  of.  He's  
RAAAALLLLYYY  strong, sure, but I didn't get this. ..m this . .or this (pointing to various bruises and cuts) because  
of his strength."  
For the first time in anyone's memory a pep rally will be held  There  was  much  pre-game  
OFF-CAMPUS with a number of interesting speakers. Bill Barz,  speculation  before  the  Georgia  
senior  fullback,  Tom  Gasseling, senior lineman, Pat Mudron, a  Tech-Tennessee  game  (won  by  
senior  defensive  tackle, Chuck  "The Bird" Nightingale, return  Tennessee  17-6)  on  who would  
specialist, and Pete Schivarelli, defensive lineman and part-time  come  out  on  top when Perdoni  
hot  dog stand  chain  magnate  are  all scheduled to address the  faced Tennessee's great offensive  
assemblage in their particular oratorical manners.  guard, Chip Kell. Most observers  
There  may  also  be  a  special  guest  speaker  who  shall  be  agreed  after  the contest that it  
identified only as the "Hysterical Hoosier" at this time.  was  pretty  much  a  standoff.  .  
The rally will be held ton'6ht at ~:00  p.m. and the Bachelors  .that they both played outstand­ 
IV will  serve  as  hosts. The address is 716 N. Notre Dame Ave.  ing football.  To  this Tennessee  


(just past Louie's.) The ch~erleaders and traditional collegiate 
Coach Bill Battle agreed, saying: Rock Perdoni, called an overgrown midget by some teammates, 
refreshments will be there, will the NO student body? 
"Perdoni and Kell arc both looms as a giant to the Irish offense for Saturday's clash. 
r------------------------­
Page 8 THE OBSERflllt_ Thursday, November 12,1970 
the ND-SMC STUDIO THEATRE 
presents 

THURBER A LA CARTE 
a chamber theatre presentation ofworks bl' 
James Thurber NOV. 13 & 14 at 8:30. 15 at 7:30PM Little Theatre -Moreau Hall -SMC Tickets: $1.00 Season Subscribers FREE For informati n or reservations call 2 4~4176 
PERSON 




BOB HOPE 

NOTRE DAME
SATURDAY 
ATHLETIC AND
NOV. 14th 


CONVOCATION
8:30P.M. 
CENTER 
featuring • THE IMPACT OF BRASS 
• MARY ANN ROSE • THE FOUR STEP BROTHERS AU SEATS RESERVED 
onlv $2.50 Seats Remain 
N.D. & St. Mary's Students may purchase these tickets at $1.00 discount upon presentation of 
I.D. card at the A.C.C. Box Office. 9 a.m.-5 p.m. daily & Student Union Ticket Office. 
EUGENE, Ore. (UPI) -His team has beaten UCLA, Southern California, Air Force others, and yet isn't in the top I G"...or 20. 
He has the best corps of col­lege pass receivers in the coun­try. 
With stars on the sidelines he has brought his team to the emotional pitch needed to win when experts said it would lose. 
He gives credit to his assis­tants and his players for any success ... and takes the blame for the losses. 
And for the second time in two weeks Jerry Frei of Oregon is the United Press International College Football Coach of the Week. 
"You gotta be kidding ... hey, that's impossible!" Frei said when informed of the honor. 
Two weeks ago Frei was named coach of the week after Oregon edged USC I 0-7 in a downpour at Eugene to knock 


The little price tag that isn't. 
When is a price tag not a price tag? When it's on a diamond ring. Drop by your local jeweler, and take a look. That little tag is fuU of letters and numbers, and maybe a price. Because of· that inscrutable code the jeweler can size you up as you chat. And finally tell you the ring is going to cost what he's decided you can pay. We think that's unfair. 
We're Vanity Fair Diamonds. For 50 years, we've been one of the largest sellers of dia· monds in the country. And in our catalog, the 
Vanity Fair Diamonds 
55 East Washington Street Chicago, Illinois 60602 
quality and cost for each and every ring is there for any student to see. And that cost is the lowest one you'll find anywhere. Honest. 
Because Vanity Fair handles each step in the making of a ring, f.-om buying the rough stones, to selling it to you, we pay no middle­man p.-ofits that drive up the price. So you get the lowest price and the highest quality. 
Send for our free 36-page color catalog, and get the whole Vanity Fair story. Or better yet, visit our Chicago showrooms at 55 E. Washington. 
Vanity Fair 
Diamonds 
Inventors 
of the 
Painless 


Marriage. 

Please send me a 1971 Vanity Fair catalog NAME._________________________________ 
ADDRESS•------------------------------------------­CITY_____________STATE:_________ZIP CODE._____ SCHOOL.____________________________________________ 
2 


Frei does it again 
the Trojans out of a fifth straight trip to the Rose Bowl. 
l dst Saturday Oregon came from behind on the passing of sophomt,;~re quarterback Dan Fouts and the receiving of split ~nd Bob Newland and others to knock Air Force from the ranks of the unbeaten and untied 46-35. Fouts who started the season behind injured Tom Blan­chard completed 28 of 43 passes for 396 yards and Newland caught II for two touchdowns and 145 yards. 
Oregon won without star half­back Bobby Moore who was suspended for a week for missing practice. 
"Maybe" said Frei after look­ing at this week's ranking which saw USC, UCLA and Air Force all in the top 20 "our people are being underrated. We have proven the point that we're back in the football world. We're not surprised when we win. Why should everyone else be"!" 

Frei said Moore's absence "probably added a little incen­tive", b·ut that the Webfoots have been •'that kind of a team all year." Oregon leads the nation in passing and with Moore out against Air Force his substi­tutes--Thurman Anderson and Jim Anderson-ran for a com­bined total of more than 170 vards. 
Club basketball 

This year the Interhall Office will again sponsor a club basket­ball league. All registered clubs are eligible. Rosters must con­tain between I 0 and 18 players who are all members of the club. 
All rosters must be submitted to the Interhall Office (C4, ACC) by Nov. 24. For further information call the lnterhall Of­fice (Tel. 61 00). 

Just for the record 
compiled by Mike Pavlin The Notre Dame Sports Information Department has decided to count any bowl statistics in a player's individual career statistics. I checked with Mr. Roger Valdiserri and he said that the previous Cotton and Rose Bowl stats would not be counted as Team season marks, thus saving what would otherwise be a total revamping of the record book. All this of course, affects my calculations which this week are updated with last year's Cotton Bowl figures. Not only do the Bowl stats affect Joe Theismann and Tom Gatewood, but they have moved Scott Hempel into 6th place on the scoring list, Denny Allan into 7th place in Kickoff Returns, and Clarence Ellis into a IOth plac~ tie with Ralph Stepaniak and John Pergine for Interceptions. By the way, that 78-yard Theismann to Creaney touchdown pass last Saturday is the 3rd longest pass play in ND history, tying a pass of similar distance from Paul Hornung to Jim Morse in 1955. TEAM--GENERAL I.) (New Record) Most Consecutive Games Scoring (incl. Cotton Bowl) 48 
TEAM --SEASON I.) (Record Tied) 2-pt. PAT's Made --3 2.) Points Scored --3X9. 289 
3.) Touchdowns ---55,40 4.) Safeties--2, I 5.) Touchdown Passes --IX, 14 6.) Rush Attempts ----663, 503 7.) Pass Yards··--2105, 15XO 8.) Pass Yds./Game --210.5, 225.7 9.) Completion 'fo -·-.583, .606 I 0.) Total Offensive Plays --909 II.) Total Offense Yards--5044, 3873 12.) Total Offense Yds./Game --504.4, 553.3 13.) First Downs by Rush --171, 122 INDIVIDUAL--SINGLE GAME 1.) (Record Tied) TD Pass Receptions --Tom Gatewood 3 INDIVIDUAL ---SEASON 1.) Pass Attempts --210, Joe Theismann 150 2.) Completions--116, Theismann 93 3.) Completion 'fo --.589, Theismann .620 4.) Pass Yards--2062, Theismann 1482 5.) Touchdown Passes---16, Theismann 14 6.) Total Offensive Plays--30X, Theismann 227 7.) Total Offense Yards--2069, Theismann 1843 8.) Touchdowns Responsible For --21, Theism ann 16 9.) 2-pt. Conversions Made --2, Theismann, Gatewood, Dewan I I 0.) Pass Receptions -·-60, Tom Gatewood 5X 11.) Reception Yards--1114, Gatewood 870 12.) TD Pass Receptions -· 9, Gatewood 7 13.) PAT's Made --41, Scott Hempel 31 INDIVIDUAL--CAREER 1.) (New Record) PAT Attempts--Scott Hempel 129 2.) (New Record) PAT's Made--Hempelll9 3.) (New Record) Field Goals-·--Hempel 14 4,) (New Record) TD Passes--Joe Theismann 31 5.) (New Record) Total Offense Yards-·-Theismann 4741 6.) (New Record) Total Performance Yards--Theismann 4853 7 .) (Record Tied) TD Pass Receptions 16 Tom Gatewood (a junior) 8.) PAT%--.914, Scott Hempel .922 9.) Completion%-·-.567, Joe Theismann .586 10.) Yards/Attempt--8.3X, Theismann 8.84 II.) Total Offense Plays --731, Theismann 681 12.) Total Performance Plays ·--751, Theismann 702 13.) Passes Broken Up --19, Clarence Ellis (a junior) 17 







