

"'~··· ··~--,­
---·~
Humphrey won't visit 
4. >41r•·--~:... 

The Rev. John E. Walsh, c.s.c., Notre Dame vice president for academic affairs presents a National University Extension Association (NUEA) award to Dr. Stephen Kertesz, center, professor of government and international relations. Dr. Thomas P. Bergin, left, dean of the University's Center for Continuing Education, nominated Kertesz for NUEA's faculty service award, citing the seven major conferences designed by him and held at the Center since its opening in March, 1966. 
by Jim Graif toward the Encyclopedia Britan­nica and the Democratic PartyFormer Vice-President Hubert 
Council. Mr. Humphrey had Humphrey informed the Student been scheduled to be the key­Union Academic Commission note speaker.
office that he will be unable to In a written statement to the 
attend the conference on the Obsen•er, Kurtz expressed disap­Problems and Culture of the pointment in Mr. Humphrey and American Indian which is being in his actions. Kurtz stated that 
held this wet:k at Notre Dame. 
the commission had received a 
Conference Chairman Bill firm verbal confirmation from 
Kurtz received a letter from Mr. 
Robert Sharpe, Mr. Humphrey'sHumphrey dated Dec. 15th secretary, that the ex-vice-presi­which he noted several of the dent would definitely be here (at activities preventing him from Notre Dame) and that it would 
coming. He mentioned that he probably be on January 6th at 
has a regular teaching schedule 7:30p.m. 
at the University of Minnesota The keynote address is now 
and at Malacaster College. He scheduled to be given tonight by 
also cited his responsibilities Rev. Theodore Hesburgh in the 
ND ten suspended 
the issues raised by the ten in
by Dave Lammers 
their statement of defense. The 
Dean of Students Father statement of the Appeals Board James L. Riehle decided on says, "After examining the state­December 16 to suspend for the ment of the students, we can present semester the ten stu­find no reason to doubt their dents involved in the Dow-CIA motivation, their good faith, demonstration of November 18. their acting in accordance with Father Riehle's decision came the spirit of Jesus Christ and the day after the Appeals Board with the spirit of an academic gave its recommendations to the community, as they have come Dean of Students. to define them ... We do feel 
The Tripartite Appeals Board, that we have in this confron­composed of Professor Donald tation the makings of a dialog­Costello of the English Depart­for-self-definition that could ment, Associate Dean Edward enrich this community." Jerger of the College of Engin­The three men cautioned eering, and Patrick Cavenaugh, against adverse effects that could senior in the government depart­arise from the d(l~ision. They ment, met with the ten students said, "The bitternes!l and disrup­on December 12 in an open tions 'and polarizations that 
meeting. At that meeting, Father would surely follow the Riehle gave a verbal account of upholding of the suspension and his actions of November 18, and expulsion notices would make 
then the students read a four­fruitful discussion on the issues teen page statement of defense. raised by the accused students' The statement of the Appeals document difficult." 
Board recommended that the Father Riehle's Jetter came punishments be reduced by /Continued on page 3) executive clemency, and that aU the punishments be the same. The Appeals Board gave four reasons for its decision. First, the Board advised that "removal or lightening of the sentences can set an atmosphere in which a productive dialog about the meaning of academic com­munity and Christian commun­ity can take place in the approp­riate University bodies." 
Secondly, the Board said that "the Administration of the University appears not to have taken steops to avuid this con­trontation." The Board called on the Admiuistration not to make examples of the ten students. 
Thirdly, the Board doubted the ability of Father Riehle to make proper identification of the students on the basis of his own recollection. 
Fourthly, the three men did not feel that Father llesburgh 's letter was on trial. "We do feel that under some circumstances variations of penalty should be considered for violations of the letter. In this case we feel that the punishments do not fit the 
.
cnme. " 
The statement of the Appeals Board indicated a desire to stimulate communication about 
library auditorium at 8:00 p.m. He will speak from the stand­point of his dual role as President of Notre Dame and Chairman of the United States Civil Rights Commission. Fol­lowing Fr. Hesburgh on the program will be Dr. William Benham of the Federal Bureau of Indian Affairs. The topic of his speech is "A Foundation for Indian Cross Cultural Educa­tion." 
Simon Ortiz, a Pueblo Indian who teaches at the Rough Rock (Ariz.) Demonstration School will hold an Indian poetry recital in the Library Auditorium at 8:00p.m. Thursday. 
Ned Hatathli, President of the Navajo Community College, will conclude the conference with his impressions of the conference and of Indian affairs. 
The complete schedule of events is as follows: Monday, January 5, 1970-Library Audi­torium-Professor Peter Michel­son; Tuesday, January 6, 4:00 
p.m.-Law Auditorium-Sym­
posium on Contemporary tndtan 
Problems; 8:00 p.m.-Library 
Auditorium-Rev. Theodore 
Hesburgh, Keynote Speaker, and 
Dr. William Benham, speaking 
on "A Foundation for Indian 
Cross Cultural Education"; Wed­
nesday, January 7, 4:00 
p.m.-Library Auditorium-Sym­
posium on Contemporary Indian 
Problems; 8:00 p.m.-Library 
Auditorium-Symposium on 
Proposed Solutions to the Con­
temporary Indian Problems; 
Thursday, January 8, 4:00 
p.m.-Library Auditorium-Sym­
posium on Proposed Solutions 
to the ContemPorary Indian 
Problems; 8:00 p.m.-Library 
Auditorium-Simon Urttz m a 
Poetry Recital; Friday, January 
9, 2:30 p.m.-Ned Hatathli, 
President of the Navajo Com­
munity College will speak. 
""". '-·~ .... """' ,,.~~-~·. i· ,.; 
..~ ·.·, .~-:! ,. .~---.·-w ..... J• 
.. 
......l..-..;...... ·--~ 
--rcJo 
r 
• • -.. ' ,, • .. ~ • f • 
-
•. 

Dr. Erhard M. Winkler, associate professor of geology at Notre Dame, points to a large crack in the dolomite foundation'"or the Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus. These cracks are common throughout the foundation, he explained, and are caused in part by pollutants in the air. 
Pollution hurts rock 
The rapid deterioration of explained, as corbolic acid is stone and concrete buildings formed by dissolving carbon may be yet another side-effect dioxide in water. These acids can of air pollution already slowly eat away at stone, credited with aggravating lung concrete, and even metal, and emphysema, stunting plant and can also speed the erosion of animal life and even altering the natural rock formations. climate. In addition to dissolving stone 
Even pollutants which are not outright, Winkler explained, harmful to man, such as carbon some pollutants actually react dioxide, can be very harmful to with substances in stone, stone, according to Dr. Erhard weakening the building. Such Winkler, associate professor of common building materials as 
geology at Notre Dame. Most marble, limestone and dolomite pollutants can dissolve in rain or are especially susceptible to fog to form weak acids, he erosion by the common 
pollutant released from burning fuel oil, coal and volcanoes -the poisonour, corrosive sulfate. 
Sulfate can combine with the calcium carbonate of the marble, limestone or dolomite to form calcium sulfate, or gypsum, Winkler said. Gypsum is 32 
times more soluble than limestone, and is easily dissolved in rain. 
Dolomite, a common choice for foundation and veneer stone, fairs even worse than limestone and marble in its confrontation with sulfates, Winkler said. The magnesium of the dolomite combines with the sulfate ion, yielding compounds that are so soluble and form so many hydrides that the deterioration of the stone is rapid and assured. 
On the positive side, Winkler added, the deteriorating building, plowed fields and construction sites produce large quantities of dust which can neutralize some of the acids in the air. The dust can al5o combine with sulfate, falling to earth as particles of gypsum and reducing the amount of the dangerous pollutants still in the air. Without this mechanism, Winkler asserted, the pollutant level would now have reached a level beyond human tolerance. 

Recall Irish band history 
TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 1970 
Tim MacCarry 


Militant administrators 
In the aftermath of the Dow-CIA demonstration, it might be worthwhile for folks who in some sense believe that they are witnessing Christian or humanistic values by their participation in the University to reexamine their perceptions, expectations, and behavior vis a vis Notre Dame. Regarciless of one.'s political or ethical positions (liberals, please note), it takes a fool to maintain the delusion that Notre Dame's aamtmsrrawrs ww be stgniticantly moved by moral protests and pleas, or that they are likely to consider seriously-in their official behavior-the ethical basis or non-violent tactics of anyone who dares to get in their way through direct action. 
The Dean of Students, we recall, exercised the joint functions of 
enforcement officer, prosecutor, and judge simultaneously in 
handing down five suspensions and five expulsions. He then chose to 
ignore the recommendation of the "appeals board" that all the 
punishments be eased or lifted altogether, but was good enough to 
change the expulsions to suspensions when the board questioned his 
ability to remember who did, and did not, stick around past twenty 
minutes in the Placement Office door. The "appeals board" also 
recommended a community-wide reexamination of the issue of 
university complicity; we suspect that the Administration will not 
react with great speed and sensitivity. Would it be stretching an 
analogy to suggest that when normal due process is suspended, and 
appeals ignored in spirit and content, a particularly militant state of 
martial law for political offenders has been declared? 
Few people are aware that this first taste of blood has not satisfied the Administration. Four students were awakened by the traditional 5: 30 a.m. knock on the door the morning after the demonstration by :snenrrs serving tnem with restraining orders directed to "a class consisting of themselves and all other persons acting in consort with them; the number of the members of such class, supporters, sympathizers and those acting in consort with them are unknown but believed to be so numerous as to make it impossible to bring them all before the Court." Accompanying the order was a court affadavit, duly signed, sworn and notarized by the Dean of Students. 
It's a shame the six-page complaint has not been repnnted and 
distributed for the enlightenment of all members of the 
"community," since the document is evidently a major statement of 
the University's basis of authority. Unlike all previous epistles from 
on high, not once are words like "community," "Christian," 
"dialogue," etc., used. Rather, the pronouncement states "that the 
plaintiff, The University of Notre Dame du Lac, is a corporation ... 
having its principal office and place of business at Notre Dame, St. 
Joseph County, Indiana ... That the plaintiff is now and has been 
for more than one hundred ( 1 00) years engaged in the operation of 
the University ... " 

Longhairfaggotdopefreakhippyradicals have been whining like 
impudent effete snobs for some time that Notre Dame is essentially 
a corporation controlled by its officers and trustees (3/4 of whom 
are rich businessmen). Perhaps a few more people will take that 
assertion seriously when the University itself makes the same 
claim-although it is apparently too humble or bashful to make it 
known on the scale usually reserved for encomiums flattering 
students and faculty on their worthy roles in the Community of 
Scholars. 

The complaint goes on to allege that "the unlawfvl occupancy of 
the Administration Building ... has created an imminent peril in 
that similar activities may be spread to other buildings of the 
plaintiff causing a wider disruption of plaintiff's academic operations 
... Plaintiff has and is now suffering by reason of the acts of the 
defendants as herein alleged and will suffer irreparable harm, injury 
and damages to plaintiff . . . Said defendants . . . were notified 
because of their failure to comply with the demand of the University 
that they were suspended as students of the University ..." It is a 
fact that three of the four were not suspended, and it is certainly 
questionalbe whether they and their "class," like· the massed hordes 

No band accompanied Coach Knute Rockne's undefeated squad on the transcontinental train trip which ended with a 27-10 victory over Stanford in the Rose Bowl in 1925 but when the Fighting Irish took the field at the Cotton Bowl on New Year's Day, its 125-member band was on hand to strike up the fam o us "Victory March." 
Campus historians still quarrel about whether the band came into existence when Notre Dame was established in 1842 or four years later, but either date makes them the nation's oldest· university band in continuous existence. 
That continuous existence has 
spanned some historical mom­ents, such as in 1871 when the band gave a concert for the relief ,..o_f_t_h_e_v_ic_t_im_s_o_f_t_h_e_G_r_e_at 
1 

YOGA 
Beginning Jan. 8, 1970 825 Notre Dame Ave. 6:00, 7:15, 8:30PM. 
Phone 287-3744 

Chicago fire and in 1946 when a similar benefit performance was given for the European victims of World War II. Some lesser-known moments in the band's history are best forgotten, such as the turn-of-the-century con­cert planned with the band on barges floating in a campus lake and the audience on the shore. Moments after the last musician stepped aboard, the barge sank. All hands were saved, but all instruments were lost. 
When Notre Dame played its first football game in 1887, an 8-0 loss to Michigan at home, the band was on the sidelines 
and thus it has been ever since. 
The band's library catalogues the changing musical tastes of more than 120 years, and it was among the first in the nation 
during the 1920's to include pageantry, precision drill and the now-familiar "picture forma­
tions"  in  half-time  entertain­ 
ment.  
It also  boasts  the  world's  

largest one:headed bass drum (a 
veteran of the movie "The Music Man") and the first major improvement in drum carry since the Civil War, a high-step­per drum carry which keeps the instrument from banging against the legs of marching drummers. Robert F. O'Brien, director of the band since 1952, arranges all music and writes all the scripts for performances while Assistant Director James S. Phillips plots all formations and manuevers. 
"The Notre Dame Victory March" was written in 1909 by Michael and John Shea. 
The song was composed by Michael Shea, then an instructor in music at Notre Dame, and his brother John, a graduate student in history at the time, wrote the lyrics. The two returned from Notre Dame road games with Michigan and Indiana in 1908 convinced that Irish rooters suffered from the lack of a fight song. So in the reading room of Sorin Hall and the organ loft of Sacred Heart Church, the Shea brothers created one. 
Fr. McGrath 

of Attila, were about to overwhelm the University Corporation's operations. Might this be perjury? 

speaks tonight 
Would it be stretching another analogy to suggest that there is


SUBSCRIPTIONS 
Father John J. McGrath, St. 
little essential difference between the present injunction of the 
Mary's president, will speak 
University Corporation and the injunctions issued against disruptive 
tonjght in Carroll Hall at 7 p.m. 
strikers by industrial corporations? Notre Dame's administrators and 
The lecture, "Private Colleges in 
trustees have chosen the model of the Rockerfellers and Carnegies, 

FOR SECOND 
American Education", is part of 
acting like benevolent, paternalistic bosses with workers (now
the series "Trends in 
apprentices) like children in a peaceful "family." When a child is 
Contemporary Education" being 
naughty, he may have his hand slapped-such is the case with 
sponsored by the SMC Educa­
campus drunks and rowdies; but if he refuses to be a child, there can

SEMESTER $4.00 
tion Department. 
be no mercy.

McGrath was one of six per­
Notre Dame students and faculty may one day wake up from 
sons elected at the university 
their sleep in the bosom of the "Notre Dame family" to the reality 
section of the NCEA last spring 
of the Corporation; they wiltthen either deal with the Corporation 
to represent Catholic college and 
with the weapons which the Corporation has already chosen-or
university interests to the curia 
begin to define themselves in terms of authentic communities which 
in Rome. Six weeks a~ he was 
exist on a level deeper than the narcotizing rhetoric of campus
called back to Rome for consui­
media, "sensitivity" groups, "relevant" Masses, Presidential letters,

HAVE ONE 
tation. 

"dialogues" and "forums", etc.
The lecture will be followed 
Weather.

by a question and answer period. 
Indiana: Tuesday fair north, partly cloudy south and colder.

IMPORTANT NOTICE
SENT HOM£ 
Fair and continued cold Tuesday Specializing in long hair for the coJJege 
night and Wednesday. High Tuesday 5-15 north, 10-20 
south.


NAME 

student -Mr. Baron, formerly with Squire 
The Observer is published daily
Hair Styling is now at 
during the college semester except vacations by the students of the
Continental Hair Styling 
University of Notre Dame and St.

ADDRESS 
306 Sherland Bldg. 

Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage 
Phone 234-0811 

CITY ______ ZIP___ 
paid. Notre Dame, Ind .. 46556.

OPEN MON. THRU SAT. 
TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 1970 THE OBSERfiER PAGE 3 
Committee calls for security improvements 
by Bill Carter 
In a report sent to the members of the Student Life Council during the holidays, the com:nittee on Campus Security offered a series of resolutions calling for "immediate action" to improve the University Secur­ity Department. The three-page report presented proposals for improvement in parking lot se­curity and increased protection against personal and property damages as well as calling for a sweeping investigation of the en­tire security system by a profess­Faculty Senate, the Vice-Presi­ional research group. dent's Council, and the SLC. 
In arguing for the professional The report also outlined the study of campus security, the background of the present secur­report cited the widespread con­ity structure and pointed out the cern about the problem in the inadequacies in that system. In university community as evid­the ten years since Pinkerton ence that "the Security Depart­undertook a study of campus ment of the University does security, the only review and 
leave much to be desired." It ,recommendations for improve­
was noted that no less than six ments in the system have been interested groups on campus done by the Director of Campus were in various stages of examin­Security. ation of the problem, including The committee concluded 
the Student Senate, Student that the "serious increases in Government, The Observer, the security problems backed by sta-



Advance registration to begin; Students must see advisors 
Advanced registration of cur­rent Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College students for the 1969-70 spring semester is scheduled to begin at I p.m. on Thursday, January 8 and close at 
4:30 p.m. on Friday, January 16, 1970, according to the information released yesterday by Daniel J. Rach, Supervisor of Registrars. Registration will be held each weekday afternoon from I p.m. until4:30 p.m. 
Instructions for registration were recently sent to all underclassmen except freshmen, by the Office of Registrars. Upon receipt of these 
•instructions, students are urged: to make an appointment with their advisor or dean anytime between the eighth and the fifteenth. Sheets have been posted at the departmental offices where students with majors should make appointments. A Freshman Year of Studies Newsletter will have 
registration  instructions  for  all  
Notre Dame freshmen..  
The  information  released  by  

Rach outlines the procedure for advanced registration as follows: STEP I 
A. On the date of you appointment, take "FORM 50" to your advisor (both copies). While in consultation with him, select the courses you wish to take. 
The "FORM 50" may list one 

or more courses for which you are already scheduled. These are two semester courses taught at the same hour as the first semester. Do not indicate this course a second time. Jf your advisor wishes to change this course, he may line it out and 
substitute a new course. The procedure is identical for section changes. The advisor must initial changes. In the case of Collegiate Seminar 32, Dr. Thomas J. Musial must approve and initial each section change. 
B. Select the class hours and complete "FORM 50". Complete columns A-B-C-D-E-F for each class, lab, drill, etc. that you request. Complete all six digits of each class sequence number. 
C. Special Note on Class Requests 
I. If you request a check mark course your advisor will complete a "Class Authorization Form" requesting permission to enter the class. · Follow the procedure on the form and obtain the necessary departmental approvals. 
2. 
The department chairman, in room l 09 of Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's College, must approve all speech and drama course selections. 

3. 
Dr. Eugene Campanale, room 1110, Memorial Library must approve all Notre Dame student requests for education courses at Saint Mary's. 

4. 
A student who wishes to take a course other than education or drama at Saint Mary's may select it when he meets with his advisor. 


5. S~:hedule Restrictions for 
Undergraduates. Notre Dame undergraduates must schedule two classes on Saturday and one in the afternoon or vice-versa. Each student's schedule is subject to change, (during step two in the class schedule room), at the discretion of the department 
chairman. If class adjustments are necessitated, those without "class authorization forms" or who have not adhered to the 
co liege  reservations  for  the  
section  will  be  removed  first.  
Should  further  deletions  be  

required, students in the group "M" to "Z" will be given priority over group "A" to "L". 
STEP 2 
A. The advisor will sign and keep the original of "FORM 50" after it has been completed. Students will retain the tab portion. 
B. Take the tab portion and the registrar's office copy of "class authorization forms" for checkmark courses to the room designated on the front of the form. Each student must mark-sense his class card request. Do not mark-sense a card for a preprinted course you are retaining. A drop card must be processed if you are dropping that course or changing a section of a preprinted course. After cards are processed, further schedule changes will not be honored until February 2,3, 1970. 
Preliminary schedule books are available at the respective dean's office for Notre Dame students and at the Saint Mary's College Registrar's office for the Saint Mary's students. 

Sen. Kennedy testifies at 
EDGARTON, Mass. (UPI)­Sen. Edward M. Kennedy was the star witness Monday when a secret inuuest opent<d into the death of Mary Jo Kopechne. His 
testimony virtually duplicated his nationally televised account of the accident last summer, UPI learned. 
Kennedy. driver of the car in which Miss Kopechne died, testi­fied for about two hours in a heavily guarded courtroom that was swept of any potential list­
ening devices. 
Afterwards, Kennedy said he was "completely satisfied" with the proceedings. He returned to his Squaw Island home on the mainland, saying he did not ex­pect to be recalled as a wit ness. 
"I responded in the most complete way possible to the questions of the judge and dis­trict attorney," he told news­
men. "I also said a few things I phone Co. accountant from Bos­thought would help add to the ton who testified about tele­record." phone calls Kennedy reportedly Earlier, District Judge James made to lawyers and friends in 
A. Boyle, the presiding justice, the nine hours between the time ·made public the inquest ground of the accident and the time the rules which forbade lawyers to senator reported it to police. cross examine witnesses or pre­sent evidence. As he emerged from the 
Kennedy's testimony, UP! courthouse, Kennedy was asked learned, was similar to his July by a newsman whether he had 
accident in which he claimed to 1972. "No, I have not," he have made a wrong turn while responded. The Massachusetts driving Miss Kopcchne back to Democrat, once regarded as a Edgartown from a party on presidential contender, said in Chappaquiddick Island. August he would seek re-election 
PRE-LAW

Kennedy said his car plunged 
Assistant Dean Donald M. Sheraw of tidal pond, carrying the 28 year 
off the narrow dike bridge into a 
the Cornell Law School will be con­ducting interviews for prospective
old Washington secretary to her 
students on Thursday, January 8th in
death. His efforts to save her, he 
said, were futile. 
Room 154 of the Center for Contin­

uing  Education.  Sign  up  for  an  
Another  witness  was  Robert  appointment  outside  Room  101  
Malloy,  a  New  England  Tete­ O'Shaughnessy.  

tistical evidence point to the conclusion that a full review of campus security is not only needed, but overdue." The call for a professional group to supervise the study was based on what the committee described as "the greater objectivity as well as the competency of the re­searchers." 
In its formal resolution to the SLC, the committee recommen­ded that the administration allo­cate the necessary funds to fin­ance the study and suggested that the Budget Committee make note of the "considerable increase in funds" that will be required. 
The committee's second resol­ution dealt directly with the problems surrounding parking lot security. A list of statistics on the theft and damage of property in the campus parking lots was offered as the rationale 
for immediate security improve­ments in this area. The figures indicated the sharp increase in the number of incidents over the past year. It was emphasized that the statistics included only cases reported to the Office for Campus Security and that the number of parking lot violations was undoubtedly much higher. 
The committee's resolution called for the Security Depart­ment to "move with full dis­patch" to find solutions for the problems of vandalism in stu-

Hope for 

(Continued from page 1) 
Father Riehle indicated the reasons for his decision in the letter. "I take this action be­cause this is the first time the rule on disruptive demonstra­tions has been invoked, and sever~'' of the students expelled have told me that they intended to provoke a suspension but they did not wish to act in such a way as to merit expulsion." 
The letter indicated that the students will have no problem being readmitted to the Univer­sity for next semester. Presently, the ten are appealing the decis­ion of Father Riehle to the President of the University. 
the day after the statement of the Appeals Board. The Dean of Students spoke of the discus­sions that have been taking place since November 18, and said, "I feel it is unfortunate that the discussions were held after Nov­ember 17 and not before as 

inquest 
. 

to the U.S. Senate th1s year and-if re-elected-serve the full 
dent lots D-1 and D-2 where the 
damage has been the greatest. A 
specific proposal for the assign­
ment of additional staff to pat­
rol the two lots at night and on 
the weekends was also included 
in the resolution. 
The final proposal concerned the increase in such areas as thefts, damage, breaking and entering, and assaults. A long list of statistics broken down into specific violations was included as evidence of the apparent in­crease in. incidents since Sept. I. The report emphasized that the greatest problem in this area was the small number of cases that have been solved and the inabili­ty of the Director of Security to do follow-up work on these cases due to the overload in the Security Office. It was noted that the Director has asked for an addition to his staff in his report last year and the commit­tee recommended that such an addition be made. 
In the resolution, the commit­tee also recommended that the Director of Security hire a train­ed investigator, subject to his office, and that this position be filled as soon as possible. 
The committee spent much of 
the first semester in the investi­gation of the security pro­
blem and will formally present 
its report with the three resolu­
tions at the next meeting of the 
SLC. 

dialogue 
appropriate channels were avail­
able for these discussions. 
"I hope that my action in reducing the penalty to the min­imum meaningful level will not be viewed as an invitation to further disruptive activity but rather an invitation to all cle­ments within the University to work harder to resolve our dif­ferences and to get about making Notre Dame the Christ­ian University we all want it to be," Riehle added. 
Gaetano DeSapio, Editor Donald C. Holliday, Pub­lisher Night Editors: Dave Bach, 
John Knorr News Editor: Glen Corso SMC News Editor: Prue 
Wear Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Layout Design: Mary Chris Morrison Layout: Ann Conway, Dan Koppenhafer, Patty Lipscomb Headlines: Jim Graif Coordinator: 


8TJ,JDENTS FACULTY & 
• ADMINISTRATION· 

~x ~ear t~rm. . . IFeel Stimulated & RefreshedI 
F1ve g1rls who along w1th Kennedy, Miss Kopechne and Go to: five male friends of the senator, N.J?. Barbershop Hours attended the cookout the night 8:00a.m. to 4:45 Sat. before the accident were ex-8 00 11 45 0
: a.m. to : pen cused without testifying Monday 5~ days a week. Serving but were expected to return to 
court Tuesday. N.D. men over 100 years. 
25 televised explanation of the changed his political plans for .---------------'­


't11]{pus~. JU"sZoaj"". 
Craftsmen in Optics 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSES--
TilE SHERLAND BLDG. 132 S. MICIIJGAN ST. 
Cent· ,-1468 
'l1acJltJIJ$~ oJVisiOJt ~ 
Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.·· Chicago 

PAGE 4 TUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 1970 





Irish vacation sports round-up 
Basketball 
Notre Dame 6S St. Louis 53 
St. Louis tried to beat the Irish with a stall offense on Saturday afternoon, Dec. 13, but ND pre­vailed. Cold from the field, the Irish fell behind early, but Captain Austin Carr scorl\ II points to keep ND close. Tft~ Irish finally salted the game away in the second half. Carr had 29 points and Sid Catlett and Collis Jones each added 16. 
Kansas 7S Notre Dame 63 Two days later, Kansas dump­ed ND from the Top Ten. The Jayhawks brought a controlled, deadly shooting offense and a clamping 1-3-1 zone defense into the Convo and pulled to a 12-point half-time lead. The Irish made several runs during the second half but the poised Jayhawks refused to crack. Dave 

Hockey 

Merrimack Tournament 
History was made at "North 

Billerica, Mass.", sight of the 
1969 Merrimack Tourney as the 
Irish icers netted a championship 
in their first tournament appear­
ance. Host school Merrimack 
College wa:; defeated 5 to I in 
the finals after the Irish had 
disposed of Salem State in the 
opening round 8 to 4. Goalie 
Dick Tomasoni was named the 
tournament's MVP for his excel­
lent performance in both con­
tests. 
Boston College 7 Notre Dame 3 
The Eagles of Chestnut Hill were too much for the out­classed Irish. Notre Dame managed to stay close for a period and a half (thanks to some remarkable goaltending by Dick Tomasoni) but All-America center Tim Sheehy's three-goal barrage was too much to over­come. BC's defensive units turned the trick for the Eagles as the Irish couldn't manage a sustained attack for much of the 
game. Boston College 7 Notre Dame 4 A disputed goal in the waning moments of the third period enabled the Eagles to depart from the All-America City of the midwest with their second straight win over Coach "Lefty" Smith's sextet. The home team lrjsh outshot the Bostonians but again were unable to outskate them. The fluke goal came with Boston ahead 6-4 and the Irish 
Robisch~. 6-9 center whose beau­tiful high-arching turn-around jump shots netted him 29 points, and Aubrey Nash, whose ball-handling and foul-shooting kept the Irish back, were out­standing. Austin Carr and Collis Jones led ND with 25 and 19 points, respectively. 
Notre Dame 89 Indiana 88 
Collis Jones turned in a var­sity career high of 30 points as ND slipped by Indiana at Bloom­ington on Dec. 20. Jones scored the winning basket with 26 sec­onds left, capping a see-saw final three minutes. The Irish had held a 23-16lead during the first half. Austin Carr and Hoosier Joe Cook also had 30 points. 
Kentucky 102 Notre Dame 100 The Irish began the roughest part of their road trip with a loss to unbeaten and top-ranked Kentucky Dec. 27 at "neutral" 
goalie off the ice to give ND an extra forward. As the red light blinked on and an apparent goal with II men scrambling in front 
of the Boston net it appeared the Irish had scored as the red light had blinked on. Everyone ~topped pla¥ing; everyone, that IS, except a lone Boston defense­men who, after noticing the official signal "no goal", calmly skated up ice and slipped the disk into the open Irish net. Nichols Tournament 
Sparked by excellent defen­sive play by defenseman Jim Morin, the Irish swept to their second tourney championship in as many outings with a 4-2 win over Hamilton College and a 5-2 conquest over the Quakers from the University of Penn­sylvania in the finals. 
The Irish travel to Ohio University for a two-game set with the Bobcats this weekend and return home on next Tues­day for a 7:30 game with Lake Forest. 

Football 
Thursday night, Dec. 11, ND premier linebacker Bob Olson who was just about ignored o~ the All-American teams this year, was voted the team's Most Valuable Player at the annual Testimonial Banquet. Olson holds ND records for tackles made in a season (142) and career (369). Next season's cap­tains were also announced: line­backer Tim Kelly for the de­fense, and guard Larry DiNardo 
. for the offense. 
Louisville. Mike Pratt led the 
Wildcats with 42 points includ­
ing a spree of 14 which kept UK 
ahead during the middle of the 
second half. Austin Carr, who 
led all scorers with his varsity 
career high of 43 points and who 
was 20-27 from the field, 
brought ND to within two 
points I 00-98, but a bucket by 
All-America center Dan Issei (35 
points) put the game out of 
reach. Sugar Bowl: ND 2nd Place 
Down in New Orleans, the Irish ran into a set of freak atmospheric conditions which al­most forced the tourney's can­cellation. It was so humid that the court and locker room facili­ties were wet, making ball-handl­ing and life in general difficult and resulting in poor play throughout. Down 15 points in the second half, Notre Dame overcame a poor shooting night 
Offensive line coach Jerry Wampfler became the seco~d Irish assistant in two years to leave the Parseghian fold when he was named head football coach at Colorado State on Dec. 
23. Wampfler received a contract for more than one year. 
Mike Oriard, the walk-on who became co-captain and first­string center, has been named one of 33 seniors awarded post-graduate scholarships worth $1,000 by the NCAA. Oriard carries a 3.67 average majoring in English. 


Wrestling 

The Notre Dame wrestling team absorbed their second loss in three dual meets by dropping a 25-11 decision to the Air Force Academy Saturday in Colorado. 
Bob Habig, a freshman wrest­ling in the 150 pound class, provided the highlight of the match for the Irish by pinning his opponent. Habig was trailing in points at the time of pin and his victory gave Notre Dame their first points of the match. Only two other wrestlers were able to score for the Irish as Jim Hansen (158) outpointed his man 7-2 and Bill Hasbrook 
(177) edged his opponent 3-2. The Irish were close in several other matches but were unable to best the well-conditioned Falcon grapplers. 
The Irish will remain idle until the second semester when Wa­bash College will provide the opposition for Notre Dame on February 3 at the ACC. 
to beat West Virginia on Monday many shots blocked as they had night Dec. 29, 84-80. Austin field goals in the first half. John Carr led the Irish with 27 points Wooden, coach of the undefeat­and Sid Catlett added 17. 

ed and second-ranked Bruins, As a reward, NO got to play 
mercifully substituted early in South Carolina, the number 
the second half as the marginthree team in the country in the ballooned to as much as 40 
title game. Despite the efforts of points. Austin Carr, who had Austin Carr, the Irish lost in 

entered the game as the nation's overtime, 84-83. Carr was simply second leading scorer with a outstanding, with 19-24 from 
34.6 average, was held to 24 the field, 5-5 from the foul line, 
points and had one of his poorer eight assists, nine rebounds, and 
shooting nights. Sid Catlett play­no turnovers for 43 points. The 
ed an excellent game with 16 Irish led by four points twice 

points, a bushel of re-bounds during the second half but never 
and several blocked shots. could put the Gamecocks away. SC took a five-point lead in the overtime and hung on to win it. 

Swimming 

UCLA 108 Notre Dame 77 Freshman John Sherk opened 
An incredible all around the Irish dual meet season by effort by UCLA starting five setting a pool record in the ended NO's suicidal trip Satur­1000-yard freestyle as NO wal­day night Jan. 3 on national TV. loped Western Ontario 82-30 on The loss left the Irish with a 7-3 Saturday, Dec. 13. Sherk's record. John Vallely (29 points), record time of 10:39.1 high­Sidney Wicks (20), Henry Bibby lighted the Irish win as they (16), Curtis Rowe (15) and took II of 13 events. Another Steve Patterson ( 14) blew ND freshman, Gene Krathaus, cap­right out of the tub with a fast tured the 50 and 1 00-yard free­break offense and a tenacious styles while John Cox won both defense. The Irish had almost as the one and three-meter diving . 
.,.................................................................... 

It may sound trite, but Texas 
certainly proved itself to be the 
Nation's best team by taking the 
Cotton Bowl. The Longhorns 
could have folded when they 
were down I 0-0, but they came 
back to score immediately. They 
could have folded when they 
were down 17-14 with six 
minutes left, but they drove to 
win the game. They gambled on 
fourth down twice and they 
made it both times. 
Texas proved that its running game is one of the finest ever by pounding through the Irish for well over 300 yards. ND had given up only dribbles of rushing yardage throughout the year, but the Irish were unable to stop the option plays and Ted Koy. 
James Street may not be the greatest passer in the world, but he certainly completes them when he has to. On the final drive, he threw twice, both com­pletions. The last one wasri 't a pretty pass, but it was out of the range of Clarence Ellis and within the diving range of Cotton Speyrer who isn't a great end for nothing. 

Notre Dame, however, put on its own show of clutch playing. Texas won the toss and chose to kick off hoping to pin the Irish deep, grab a punt, and grind in for a score. But it was the Irish who ground upfield for Scott Hempel's three-pointer. And ND did it with an offensive line loaded with reserves. The of­fense came back from a I 4-10 deficit to take the lead and actually had only a couple of yards fewer total offense than Texas. 
Outside of his two intercep­tions, Joe Theismann had a great day. He showed fine poise under pressure and he set up the bomb to Tom Gatewood perfectly. Whenever he guarded Speyrer one-on-one, Ellis was all over the Longhorn star and it was only Street's pinpoint passing which 

. made the completions possible. Gatewood also turned in a fine game at split-end. Undoubtedly the outstanding individual for Notre Dame was Bob Olson who probably convin­ced a nation-wide audience that he is an All-American despite being left off the lists. He stopped a Longhorn drive in the first half with crunching tackles on third and fourth downs and was a thorn in Texas' side all day. The Longhorn victory was due primarily to the wearing down of the Irish defense. While Olson and Company held Texas in check during the first half, they seemed to tire trying to bulldog the big Longhorn backs down. In the fourth quarter, ND seemed unable to make any clean tackles. The Texas backs were being hit, then they were lunging forward for extra yard­age. The Cotton Bowl was saved last New Year's Day. Notre Dame didn't, as many feared they would, get clobbered thus making the selection committee look ridiculous. Perhaps the only ones who really looked bad were the bookies (who took a terrific beating all day) who made Texas a seven-point favorite. But for the great pair of hands owned by Cotton Speyrer, Richard Nixon would have had to whip up a special plaque for Penn State. 




