


i 
' 
Serving the Notre Dame and Saint M_ary 's College ('ommuni~J' THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1970
VOL. IV, No 83 
Tom Thrasher declares candidacy 
from ciety. This student power has its justify its

Junior from Rochester, N.Y., a varsity tennis player only role which can 
by T. C. Treanor source in the imagination and continued existence-The role
calls his candidacy "an effort to Short Hills, New Jersey, has serv­interest of each individual stu-of advocate of student-generated
Stay Senator Tom Thrasher bring government on the campus ed as Assistant Student Union last night became the first to back to the only role which can Academic Commissioner since offcially announce his candidacy Justify . its continued exist­September. Thrasher now lives for the presidency of Notre ence--the role of advocate of in Grace Hall, Murray in Alumni. Dame's student body. student-generated solutions to Thrasher's Statement reads: In a statement, Thrasher and university problems. "With painful slowness the his running mate, Assistant Stu­Thrasher was elected to the students of Notre Dame have dent Union Academic Commis­Senate from Stanford Hall in learned that they not only pos­
sioner Greg Murray, contended September of I 968 and was one sess power but can ably use this that this year's student govern­of four Senators to be elevated commodity to influence or, if ~~ ment had "spiralled into dis­to a "Stay" position at the end necessary, coerce a redirecting of I 
array." Thrasher, a 21-year old of the 1968-69 season. Murray, priorities in our University so-t 
Steinberg lectures about 
Tom Thraser

advantages of gun control 
dent. Through student govern­solutions to University pro­ment this power can be ampli­

felt that registration and liscen­sing at the state level; there blems.by Tom Bornholdt sing would prevent many need­ought to be minimum federal fied six thousand times and di-"With this objective Greg and The need for control of rising less gun tradgedies. standards." He thought there rected on a convergent course I announce our candidacy for 
"gun pollution" was stressed by He said that the country was should be some variance in laws tpwards progress. the offices of Student Body David Steinberg, Director of the not neatly divided into two from state to state because of "Of late, this power has fault-President and vice-president. But National Council for a Respon­groups, the safe, law-abiding differences in situations. He gave ered in delivery because the tool this announcement would be sible Firearms Policy, in an ex­gun-owner and the criminals. He as an example the different of its implimentation, student shallow, and our campaign hypo­
clusive interview yesterday. Af­
needs for firearms in Wisconsin government, has spiralled into critical, were we to attempt to ter the interview he gave a and Connecticut. disarray. Our candidacy repre-gain those offices without the sents an effort to bring govern-
speech in the Library Auditor­Stein berg felt methods other ment on the campus back to the (continued on page 3)
ium on "Firearms and the Law." than licensing should also be put lie felt that gun control was the in to effect. only rational approach to the "Each state should have a 
Comprehensive poll

problem of dangerous weapons. code of responsible gun own­Steinberg summarized the ership ... Through such a code, purpose of his organization, "To society would be telling all gun 
covers topical •ISSUeS

alert the country to the dangers owners that a certain conduct is of guns, both long guns and expected of them ... This way you by Bill Carter topics in order to include everyhand guns, falling into irrespon­would get a more deliberate con­possible major interest of the
sible hands." scious attention to the 
students. Under the admin~stra-Steinberg gave examples of ownership of guns... America, In an attempt to determine tion of Student Governmentpeople who should not be allow­today, has a much too casual exactly whery the Notre Dame student of 1970 stands, what he officials, the poll will be offer~ded to possess firearms. "They attitude towards guns. This

David Steinberg believes strongly in, what he in the manner of a student elec­who lack maturity ... or who have whole casual attitude must likes and doesn't like about his tion with each hall handling thecriminal records ... or drug ad-felt that there was a large num­stop," he proposed. 
school, his country, and his distribution and collection ofdicts ... the mentally defective". ber of Americans possessing fire­This code would make the world, a comprehensive poll on the poll for the members of thatWhen asked, he added that "pol­arms, who while not being crim­gun-owner responsible for the the opinions of the university hall.

itical subversives" also be denied inal, simply are not qualified to use of all guns registered for student body has been drawn up The poll will be taken todaythe legal access to guns. use firearms. him. Thus is a gun owner was to through the joint efforts of the with the results tabulated andStein berg felt the registration He claimed that these people sell, loan, or give his weapon to Student Government and the ready for publication in The
of firearms and the liscensing of often accidently kill themselves another person, without register­gun owners, would greatly re­or others due to their ignorance ing this transaction, and the wea­Notre Dame Observer. Observer sometime next week. 
The idea for the poll grew outduce the availability of danger­about the proper use of guns. pon was misused, the registered The poll, which has been in the planning for some months of the desire for some definite

OilS weapons. He readily admit­On the level of registration owner would be held respon­ted that those who really wanted and liscensing, Steinberg will address itself to the widest indication of how deeply stu­dents feel affected by the more
guns would get them, but he still said,"We would want this liscen-(continued on page 6) possible range of contemporary outstanding issues currently receiving attention on campus. Observer News Editor Glen
Nutting explains educational philosophy 
Corso brought the possibility of running such a poll to the atten­dom, understanding and love of tion of the Student Government

was a success, and not the D as a definite sign that the stu­
by Mike Bergida 
dents "can have a strong idea the Administration, Faculty, and and they agreed to cooperate instudent. 

Knowledge. Breen-Phillips Students" make needed reforms. both the formulation and admi­
Speaking about a liberal edu­and do something about it." 
basement. Prof. Willis Nutting. He commented that the grad nistration of the poll. More than
cation, Nutting remarked most Pc remarked that a few years 
A b o u t 4 0 eager stu­have an inverted sense of propor­ago such a mature shouldering of schools make "scholars" who seventy questions were created dents-including Nutting-gather­tion. The poor man is given a responsibility was unheard and learn how "to make footnotes." for the poll by a team consisting ed at 10 pm last night. Nutting also observed that every­of Corso and Tim Treanor from
vocational education. The rich unthought of at Notre Dame: 
For lit tie over an hour When questioned about his one he has asked who passed The Observer and John Zim­
man gets the Iiberai education.. Nutting shared his views on plans for President, Nutting let, their doctorats exam has stated merman and Ed Davey from
He underscored the need for 
learning, his campaign, grad the time necessarily spent could St~1dent Gc.vernment.
the poor man to "contemplate
schools, and Ph. D's. have been used more profitably. Working from the objective of
and know justice." But the limit­
Nutting emphasized the "stu­Nutting deplored that "cre­forming the broadest sampling
ed education he receives often 
pidity" of the course and credit dentials, not knowledge, were of questions on issues presently
allows him to only dream of 
system. He noted that a person checked" by prospective em­touching the lives of American
"golden faucets." Result: frus­
might get a D in a course and ployers. In fact, he said,"a Ph. D college students, the pollsters
tration because of what is the Ia ter become very in teres ted in might prevent a person from sought to stimulate response
real and the ideal. 
the subject. Lectures, outside being a good teacher." both in the form of criticism and 
The rich Man's possessions are 
readings, and "reading half He described graduate school suggestion. Campus life, both
as enough to satisfy the basic hu­
much and thinking twice as as an experience that had to be social and academic, political
man desires. He doesn't need to 
much" could make him more gone through with, but "if you viewpoint, in general and speci­
turn to ideas for stimulation. A 
informed than someone getting like it, something is wrong with fically concerning the direction
yacht, a pub, or night­
an A in the same course. you." of American domestic and
-on-the-town would serve as 
But, he stressed, this achieve­Nutting also said that most foreigh policy, and personal
well. 

ment would go unrecorded. A colleges don't depend upon the, philosophy were the broad range
Conclusion: give a man who 
stigma would stay on his record. hundreds of undergraduate ex­of topics covered by the poll.
more clearly needs a liberal edu­
The student who got the A ams, but require the students to "I think this is the most com­
cation the chance to obtain it. 
might "sour on the subject" take a comprehensive final at the prehensive poll that has ever
Show him how to accept his lot because of the work neces.~ary to end of four years. been put out on this campus,"
in life and· how to transcend it 
earn the grade. He would pro­He reminisced that this was Corso said. We tried to cover
through ideas. 
bably forget the course matter. Nutting pointed out to the the case during his days at every conceivable area that we Yet, in the eyes of the world, he (continued on page 6}
sustained student-run campaign school in England. 



----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

THE OBSERIIIIt 

Choate subsidizes Mrs. Olivarez 
This is the second of three installments on Mrs. Grace Olivarez, who will be the first woman to be awarded a Juris Doctor Degree by the Notre Dame Law School. She will re­ceive the degree this spring--ed. 
by Mark Walbran 
In 1962 Mrs. Olivarez met Mr. Robert Choate who profoundly expanded her opportunities to do social work. Mr. Robert Choate of the Choate Founda­tion had long been interested in her work and asked her to join the Choate Foundation in its work in the southwestern United States. She was rather wary of Choate and suspected him to be just another White out to solve the Mexican-Americans' prob­lems. Choate knew that at this time Mrs. Olivarez was sup­porting only her mother and was using a considerable amount of her income to help starving families in the county who could 

not wait for the bureaucracy of the local Welfare board to pro­vide them with food. Choate made her see that she had be­come dependent on helping these people on a day to day basis without solving the situ­ations which caused them to be poor. She admitted that she 

At this time too she began to read the reports of sociologists like Oscar Lewis and Michael Harrington. These people broad­ened the scope of her understan­ding of the poor. The problems were much larger and more widespread than she had ex­pected and she realized how shelten:d her life had been. Her work with the foundation took .her around the Southwest and 
she  met  other  concerned  
Mexican-Americans.  Realizing  
the  opportunity  to  make  real  

progress, Mrs. Olivarez left her radio career behind and went to work full time for the Choate Foundation, taking a consider­able loss in income from $7,800 to $5,000 annually. 
"Mr. Ford Foundation" 
One of the projects the Choate Foundation was working on at the time was a motivation program for minority group chil­dren to improve their progress in school. The work Mrs. Olivarez him that he had not done what he said he had, and that it was very refreshing. Most people, he told her, were so concerned a­bout getting money that they would never think of disagreeing with him. He extended her travel grant so her investigation could continue and recommended her to the Advisory Council of the 
Office  of  Economic  Oppor­ 
tunity.  
Serves  on  committees  

"All of a sudden I was a big 
shot," she explained, "serving on committees with Kenneth Gal­braith and Mrs. Robert Mc­Namara, Whitney Young and Dr. Spock." Soon she was travelling extensively and giving lectures and organizing workshops on minority groups and their prob­lems. 
In 1962 Mrs. Olivarez met Fr. Theodore Hesburgh when the Civil Rights Commission was having hearings in Phoenix. In vealing information on the con­dition of the poor in Maricopa County and throughout -the state. Hesburgh was impressed and the two became friends. She was impressed by this man who knew Spanish and who displayed 

a genuine concern for the poor. 
By 1966 Mrs. Olivarez had finished two years of television work in Phoenix and had left the Choate Foundation, presenting on TV the same kind of educa­tional program she used to do for KIFN. She was serving as Director of the Arizona Office of Economic Opportunity, a job she lost after Governor Jack Williams came into office, later that year. She was becoming more disillusioned about the progress all her efforts were real­ly having. Although she enjoyed travelling and serving on com­mittees, the results of her work never seemed visible among the poor she knew so well in the mining towns and villages of 

Olivarez went to work for the did in this area attracted the Phoenix no one really talks a­Maricopa County.
Choate Foundation. At this time attention of the Ford Founda­bout discrimination but she
MAGIC COOKIE 

she began to realize how little Continued tomorrow
tion who gave her a 30 day grant spoke out and presented re-_ formal education she had had. 

to travel the Southwest to inves­


I.AND 

After speaking nothing but 
tigate the problems of 

Spanish for fourteen years, she 


Marilyn Reed is named
Mexican-Americans. After 

was now required to use English.
IS COMING 
travelling and preparing her re­port, she went to New York to 


Wilson Designate
present her findings to Mr. Paul 
Ylvisaker, "Mr. Ford Founda­
tion." Choate had advised her 

OPENS TOMORROW ! ! ! 
strong interest in teaching. Miss Tne Woodrow Wilson Na­
before coming to New York that Reed was listed as one of I ,153 
tional Fellowship Foundation

the Ford Foundation people designates selected from ap­
THE AMERICAN ScENE 
has announced that Miss Marilyn proximately 12,000 outstanding

were on top and that she should 
J. Reed, a senior at Saint Mary's graduating seniors nominated for

remember that the future of her


oF EDwARD ALBEE 
College, Notre Dame, Indiana, the honor by more thar. 800

social work depended on how 
has been named a Woodrow Wil­colleges. This list of rl:-signates

well she presented herself. But it


the american dream 
son Designate for 1970. The will be sent to ·:~1 graduate

soon became obvious to Mrs. 
"Designate" status singles out

the death of bessie smith 
school deans in the United
Olivarez that Ylvisaker had not 
those young men and women as States and Canada, with the re­Washington Hall 

read her report, and she told him 
ebruary 27, 28 8:30'p.m. 
outstanding students with a commendation that the winnersarch 1 at 2:30p.m. Students $1.50. 

so. He said very few people told 

283-7054 
be awarded graduate fellowships. The designates join the ranks of 15,000 former Woodrow Wil­
u.J(,usc JYt'sioll j"'· 

son Fellows which include con­
ENTERTAINMENT GEARED ·To PLEASE 

sumer crusader Ralph Nader,
Cr<'ftsmen in Optics

,.THE soPHisTic!.rio ADULT . 
poet Erica Mann, and eleven
' I ~ f:' "> ' '•' ; I' • -t' ' 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLHSSES 
college presidents. 
AND CONTACT LENf.ES -­

Miss Reed is the daughter of 
Tilt" SJIHRLAND BL[)G. 

Dr. and Mrs. John J. Reed of
iF YOU'RE ;·a~OR OVER MAKE THE 
132 S. MICHIGAN ST. 

Hobart, Indiana. She graduated
Central 2-1468 

from Andrean High School in Gary, Indiana, and is an art major with a special interest in art history at Saint Marv's 
't1.£JltJUSe o} ViSiGJt 3n.:· 
Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.-· Chicago 
College. 




FOI.I.OW THE IRISH TO DAYTON 
Saturday March 7 



ENDS TONIGHT!!! 
Bus )eaves 1he Continuing Education Center 
Sam 

See both as late as 9:30 
l 
Bus returns from Dayton 10 pm li[IJ!fiJ11Ullj;1!Jj;ii 

-~.,,.-:-··' 

•
' i ~

,.;..~:;ft 
Cost $12 -INCLUDES RIDE AND GAME TICKET 

,{·~)', UNDERGROUND MOVIE! l·lll·llli!!IIOijm!lmg!ll~j'!!I!!I!!![I!I!UI:IJ 
Mu:;t show l&gll proof of ... .-d Notre Dame ID 

Tickets on sale Friday at the Travel Bureau 

in Badin Hall from 9 am -4 pm 

A servi<.·e of STUDENT UNION 



PAGE 3

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1970 














The Observer ts published dally JOBS! JOBS! and more JOBSf StU· -:<luring the college semester except 
ents, Teachers. Stateside and Inter·1vacations . by students of the 
n.1t1onal Jobs. Recreational .•.Jobl. 'University of Notre Dame and St. 
vear-roun<l Jobs; summer Jobs. All Mary's College. Subscriptions may







Chicago Seven denied bail 
cx;cupatlons and trades. Enjoy a va~­be purchased for $8 from The 
tlon while you earn. Hurry! The JM't Ot>server, Box 11, Notre Dame, 
jobs are taken early. writes "JOBS",
Ind., 46556. second class postage 
P.O. Box 475, Dept. CP 163-1. LOCII,

CHICAGO (UPI) -The gov­appeals court Saturday to grant militants ... " the brief said. "In 
paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
Calif. 95240 

ernment, charging that the "Chi­the nine men their freedom this case denial is based on the cago Seven" and their two trial pending their appeals. danger in view of the evidence." lawyers are "a danger and a Five of the "Chicago Seven" Federal rules leave the ques­threat to the community," yes­were found guilty by a jury of tion of bail after conviction up terday asked a federal appeals crossing state lines with intent to to the "sound discretion of the court to reject their requests for incite a riot during the 1968 court," the government said. bail. Democratic National Conven­The ACLU petition and 17 
Former Attorney General tion. Hoffman found all seven page supporting brief said, on Ramsey Clark and four other defendants, together with Kunst­the other hand, that "at the very attorneys of the American Civil ler and Weinglass, guilty of con­least, the defendants are entitled 
Liberties Union (ACLU), arguing tempt of court for actions dur­to bail pending the outcome of 
Academic Commission Office 

there is no indication the nine ing the tempestuous, 4'h month the case." It said denial of bail convicted men are dangerous, trial. violated the first, fifth, sixth and 
4th fJoor LaFortune 1:30 -5:00 pm

asked the court to grant bail In a 39 page brief signed by eighth amendments to the US pending final outcome of the US Attorney Thomas A. Foran, Constitution. case. the government said "evidence The opposing briefs were filed overwhelmingly demonstrates 
N. D. BOOKSTORE 

with the 7th US Circuit Court of the defendants are a danger and Appeals, which must decide a threat to the community and whether to overrule US District the record does not in any way Court Judge Julius Hoffman's establish that the appeal of the 
.THEY DON'T FOLLOW FADS.I

denial of bail. Attorneys for the conviction is meritorious." "Chicago Seven" and their trial 
"The government submits 

THEYSETTRENDS.

that there is no policy to grant bail to all self styled political
lawyers, William Kunstler and 
Leonard Weinglass, asked the 
Thrasher's hat in ring 
(continued from page 1) we make student government truly the student's government.
aid of our fellow students. For That will be the true measure.
the next student government That will be the permanentmUst derive power, not just from measure."
the passive consent of this so­Thrasher says that he intendsciety of students, but from their to issue day-by-day positioncommitted participation. 
papers on the issues he considers "The next thirteen days will 
important to be most important. He also
be too to allow this intends to do quite a bit ofcampaign to degenerate into a 
door-to-door campaigning.
series of petty political games. 
"It's important to make thisThis announcement of can­


THE REASON

campaign as personal as pos­didacy is a renouncement of the sible," Thrasher said in an inter­exclusivism that has marked past view after his announcement,student governments. For the "I'd like to meet at least on a 

THE 60'S

measure of this campaign's suc­section basis." 
cess will be more than the num­The election is scheduled tober of votes we collect. It will be 
SOUNDED ~il

be held on Wednesday, Marchthe number of people for whom 
II. 



SOGREAT.

Grape Boycott begins new talks 
in boycott acitivities.
After meeting with some While the group which recruit­
difficulty with vandals destroy­ed at registration had begun the
ing signs publicizing their earlier year by picketing at local gro­



Bass

attempts at discussions, the lead­cery stores which sold California ers of the Grape Boycott Com­grapes, they have recently reor­mittee will open their second ganized into teams in order to 
W~uNs·

semester series of talks tonight speak to various groups of citi­in Lewis Hall. 
zens in an educational effort to
Members will conduct a for­um on acquaint them with the cause. 
And Bass Tacks ... for men and women
the nature of the move­Most of the members of thement including not only the 

Announcing...more Bass Weejuns and Bass tack styles than

teams have attended long train­items of wages for the migrant ing sessions to prepare them 
ever before /in our Shoe Salon. Bass Shoes are the most with information and backround 
farm laborers in Delano, Calif­
ornia, but also the related issues 
pop~lar hand sewn casuals in the world. Select your Bass 
material.

of dangers to those people from 
WeeJuns, Tacks and sandles at the Frances Shop. We have the 

pesticides and other related i­The program is slated to get 
most ever! 

tems. under way at 8:00 pm in the 
Discussion leaders for the basement lounge at Lewis Hall. night will include members of Bro. Mark Ratkus, F.S.C. has El Centro, a local group working stressed in his publicity that all 
Girls little heel on the plight of the are welcome to attend whether 
Weejun in brown leat:ter 20.00 Mexican-Americans as well as they favor or oppose the move­Notre Dame students and local ment or are just interested in 
residents who have been active learning or questioning. 
EUR~OPE $229 
Bass Thong Sandie
Jlll)e 24 to August I 8 -8 weekB 
Detroit/London/Detroit 
Mahogany brown .... 12.00 
Other sandle styles avail­
ROUND TRIP JET 
N.B. -last 1ign~up by March 31 
able 

Univ~rs•'ty Charten am R11PIUQrt:"lf4t'ttr I'ITtht St!ri.es 
5tllaertd IIJ fllln 0.., II. illlln's -Sllldlllts lallnllllllal Intra.. lwopean a&ud•t chllrter nl-.t t.ok"'p
10•~ 6top Jet 

NSA llllll:tlf'ftatlenal I.D. c•d• 
Jf'en bar and complete •eals ?•troit d•pai'Nres from n••• ·by 'i•tro Airpori 

Auto purchaan, renul• and I•.... 
150 d•poslt, {anal poym•nt in March 

CorNMCflft.l' .,-ound atnd aJr tr-..portatien 'flltctJllalio" privil•ges until day of tkpgrtu.re 
Tra'lteler•• Ot.clla 
'O,.pltlt" Nnle of 'ravtl services 

E.,catlonal tours 
St~t priced hotel book ina• 
A Lonclon offlce to aerv• yow 

Ow Ann Arbor office can book yotot hrto •twdent priced hotel• blfore you lu~ Mtl our London .m~ wlll look aft• all your rteeda whlla you are In Eurepe. Open 01tly to Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, faculty, staff and immediate families, 
$50 Deposit RestNVfls Seats 
Phone or &tOflln: 
NOW at the Frances Shop, 

letn 011111 Shld•t Senlcl C-lnl1n or St. Mary'1 CHtact 
Bass Tacks for men. This

4E. Lafortune Student Center St. Mary's Student Service• 283.7757 Organization 
one in tan leather .... 20.00 Red and blue saddle Ta~ for women ............... 16.00 



Downtown South Bend 


THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 19701 
Nutting on education 
Nutting mirrors Caws's concepts 
This is the second of five install­ments in The Observer in which mem­bers of the Nutting for President com­mittee answer the fundamental quest­ion of why should any change be made in the existing power structure or why change the people now in power.--ed. 
by Mike Kovacevich It's very hard for me to consider just what a university is anymore without realizing what it has come to be in America. It's very hard to forget that napalm was developed at Harvard and tested behind that institution's football stadium. Or that James Rec­tor was killed by a shotgun blast because Berkeley and Oakland police responded violently to Charles Pal­mer's concept that people attending the University of California, "street people," and other residents of the area should have a "People's Park". It's impossible. So in describing what a university should be, I shall also say what it, in fact, is. What A University Should Be 
Probably more worthless nonsense is written about education than about any other subject except religion. Because of this proliferation of verbi­age, it is one of the hardest subjects to write about effectively. 
-Peter J. Caws, "Design for a Uni­
versity", Daedalus, Winter 1970 
Caws is right. But hopefully out of all the nonsense, something written will inspire contemporary educators, students, and administrators to re­examine the corporate structure and c.or orate services their institution sus­tains, to the extent that education is a. 

secondary issue and is treated as such. An ideal university? Caws believes it should adhere to two basic principles: 
... the curriculum of the university ought to be interesting, and, second, the government of the university ought to be fair ... the curriculum must be interesting, as judged by the students who are compelled to follow it; and the government must be fair, as judged by the faculty and students who are ruled by it. · 
Such are the basic principles that must be realized to create a com­munity of scholars. They are maxims the community should follow in learn­ing and living together. Caws recog­nizes, unlike many of our universities, that a university, by its nature, is responsible to society at large: 
The government of the university must be fair not only to those within it, but also to those outside it. .. the university is implicated in society and cannot escape the charge ofunfairness if it helps to perpetuate an inequality in that society. 
Restrictive admissions policies that exclude a class of people from mem­bership in the academic community, when they would benefit by it is white-collar crime. The fact that Southern, indeed Northern, institu­tions of higher education have such poor enrollment of Blacks, Chicanos, and American Indians discredits any claims of pursuing high ideals, like being an "open community" for example. 
A few words about the administra­tion of the "ideal universit ": in a community where faculty and s~­dents are the university, where they are the focus of concern, an adminis­trator's function is to attend to their needs and wants. 
Trustees, presidents, deans, regis­trars, secretaries, janitors, and the like are not, strictly speaking, part of the. university at all-not, at least, as these positions are now interpreted and filled in most American institutions of higher education. They are ancillar to the real business of the university, and only the supplanting of the com­munity model by the corporation model has put them in their present dominant position ... in the ideal university administrative personnnel would be appointed only as needed for the day-to-day running of the institu­tion and would be under the control of the community of faculty and students. 
-Caws, "Design for a University" 
What the University, In Fact, Is 
Witness students strikes at Colum­
bia, Harvard, Berkeley. Witness Colum­bia's large land holdings in Harlem; witness napalm at Harvard; witness a young man from San Jose fatally wounded on the roof of a Telegraph Ave. bookstore in Berkeley. Witness the American university: it falls more 
·than considerably short of the ideal community mentioned above. 
I am firmly convinced that the educational pattern within which teachers in liberal arts colleges work is thoroughly and intrinsically wrong, so wrong that the men who most sin­
cerely strive develo ment 

Letters to the Editor 
Money for Africa 
Editor: 
We would like to take this opportunity to compliment the dining halls for the gesture of good will expressed through their Western Night. However, we feel that this meal could not have taken place at a less oppor­tune time. For while we at Notre Dame were observing lent through this obvious waste of food, thousands of Biafran's are starving. 

We do not know how these affairs are run financially, but we are certain that the dining hall management must be aware of the tremendous waste which accompanies these affairs. We are sure that if the student body 

one small book for collegiate seminar­one great profit for the N.D. Bookstore! 
had been made aware of this feast far in advance Notre Dame men would have sacrificed this meal for the needy in Africa. 
Sincerely, 
James DeSapio 
Jorge Vila mil 
Chris Senchach 
Mike Frulley 
John Yonder Haar 
Power to ladies 
Editor: 
We commend and encourage the women who challenged Dr. Benjamin Spock on 'his attitude of male supremacy. They effec­tively used Spack's own device of shaking the "establishment" (male superiority) "by its lapels," and asked questions which the doctor did not effec­tively answer. 
We're amazed that this glor­ious seat of rational discussion and community dialogue degen­erages rapidly to the use of derision and antagonism when a view is expressed which is con­trary to th,e cherished popular opinion. The treatment these women received (the catcalls from the audience, the sarcastic comment from another ques­tioner using the microphone) was childish. It reflected beau­tifully on the "Notre Dame mentality." This forceful attack on a cherished male belief is the best demonstration I have seen of the need for coeducation at Notre Dame. 
Power to the ladies! 
Mike Merth 
433 Keenan 
Steve Sheaff~r 
429 Keenan 
for the full intellectual 
o their students must 

suffer almost continual .frustration, and can accomplish their work only to the extent they refuse to conform to the pattern. 
from The Free City by Willis Nut­ting 
The university is, a corporation, not a community. And it runs itself with the hard-line tactics and the dehuman­izing policies of a corporation. Like a corporation, reform rather than radical change, is structurally sanctioned. And the channel for such well-intentioned but basically inadequate change is the committee. As Caws puts it:. 
One of the most bewildering feat­ures of the present agitation in the academy is the proliferation of com­mittees, all manfully struggling over essentially the same problems, all pro­ducing virtuous documents which shift the emphases somewhat, usually (under the pressure of circumstance~) roughly in the right direction, but which fail to signal the radical changes that are genuinely needed. 
Committees are, then, problems in the radical restructuring of the univer­sity to what it should be. They are grossly time-consuming jobs assumed by students and faculty without pay, giving both the illusion that their energies will restructure instead of reform. Or if they know ~hat they are about, they have chosen to debate how their institution can present a human face to them while helping corporate America rape the earth and exploit and kill its men and women, its children. 
Sorry if it sounds harsh. But that is what a universit , in fact is. 
Dennis Wall 



Does anybody remember Tom Dooley 
"Perhaps we cannot prevent this world from being a world in which children are tortured. But we can reduce the number of tortured children. And if you don't help us, who else in the world can help us do this?" 
Albert Camus 

While you are reading this, someone is dying of tuberculosis in Southeast Asia. For ten cents, you may be able to keep him alive for a day, even though you have no medical degree. If you have twenty cents to spend, you can help to vaccinate one child in Asia against smallpox, just as surely as if you yourself were there when the child was vaccinated. Most of you cannot be there in Southeast Asia wh'en the child's life is saved and most of you reading this do not have medical degrees, but the doctors at work there for the Thomas A. Dooley Foundation can and do. 
Formed in 1961 by people who respected Dr. Dooley's work and refused to let it go with him to the grave, the Dooley Foundation has continued his work with medicine and with compassion. Thanks to the Foundation, there are presently two 50 bed hospitals and a mobile X-ray unit in Laos. There are mobile health units serving Tibetan refugees in the Kulu Valley of Northern India. Airline stewardesses volunteer three months of their lives to teach in Nepal, where the Dooley Foundation also provides social welfare assistance to a Nepalese orphanage, a leprosarium and a Tibetan nursery. 
In Viet Nam, the Foundation is temporarily providing assistance to the Orphanage of An Lac in Saigon. And the Dooley Foundation does more, much mote. But all of these programs cost money. Because the Thomas A. Dooley Foundation is a non-profit, non-governmental, non-sectarian volunteer organization, it is dependent upon contributions. Notre Dame students have worked here since September to organize a "Fund Drive For The Thomas A. Dooley Foundation". The Drive is to be solely on this campus and at SMC, with radio spots reaching to South Bend across the local radio stations. 
But in a larger sense, nurses, doctors, medical technicians and stewardesses all volunteer their services to the Foundation. They are making their contributions. Perhaps, each in his own way, we can make ours. That's what Dr. Dooley loved about Notre Dame: not just the gold on the Dome or the beauty of the Grotto, but people caring for people. That's what the Notre Dame Community is all about. We of the Fund Drive come with empty hands. We do not have anything to give to you. But we ask for those who have nothing, for those to whom sickness is a way of life and to whom such things as smallpox, ma.I¥ria, diptheria and leprosy are as familiar as measles are to y~~ ;mp. ~9. me. Collections will be taken in the
1

halls March 2-8,-and m the dmmg halls at lunch and dinner on March 
8. Whether you give a dime or a dollar or even more, someone in the 
world will be glad that you cared. Will you help? If you do not, who will? ) 
What's a Twyla Tharp? 
Who are Mcree Cunningham, Jose Limon, Alwin Nicolais, Martha Graham, Ann Halprin, Alwin Ailey, Robert Joffrey, Paul Taylor, and Phyllis Lahmut? 
Don't know? Perhaps if I added the names Erick Hawkins, Twyla Tharp, Don Redlich or Gladys Bailin some might be able to answer the first question. Most still wouldn't know who the hell I was talking about. What if I was to say that they are the best known representatives of what Time Magazine has called "the most inventive and least inhibited" con­temporary art form. Perhaps now you feel you might be able to make a wild guess and proclaim them as . . .ah.. .experimental film makers, perhaps ...or. ..maybe... members of the New York cast of Hair;• ..or how about part of some experimental theater troups...or Nixon's 
Reply 

I can see it now. Dave Stauffer, sup­porter of Willis Nutting for President of· the University of Notre Dame du Lac; and Theodore Hesburgh for Chancellor of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac. 
Mr. Stauffer has raised several legiti­mate questions: Who holds the power at Notre Dame? Wouldn't a Chancellor­President structure "mess" up an already "confused power structure"? What will the Chancellor (be) do? Just because something works at other schools, what right do you have to believe it will work at Notre Dame? And finally, how do you 
distinguish  between  an  "external"  and  
"internal" duty?  
Let's  begin  with  the  question  which  

most perplexes Dave, who runs Notre Dame? If we can accept Joel Connelly, William Cullen and Tom Payne (as Mr. Stauffer seems to have done) as accurate sources: 
The President is in fact the decision­maker at Notre Dame, aided in financial matters by the Executive Vice-President, the Rev. Edmund P. Joyce. Structurally final authority is in such instruments as the Board of Trustees while /egjs/ative authority rests in the SLC and Academic Council. However, in fact the actual governing of Notre Dame is a most singular matter . . . Presidential decision­making is an unchallenged philosophy at Notre Dame. No one disputes Hesburgh s final authority. The article goes on, 
.. .Now the simple, incontrovertible fact is that these top-level administrators are in no sense of the word strong educative innovators, or even usually sympathetic to suggested educational int~ovations and experiments. 
It concludes, 

... Since there are serious inadequacies with all three of the relevant levels of the current community -the conceptual, the practical, and the actual-it would seem that the handwriting is on the wall for the University of Notre Dame, unless Father 1/eshurgh himself revises both his think­ing and his doing in regard to the com­munity, or is persuaded to do so in one way or another by faculty and students, or hoth . .. 
"("An Essay on Community at Notre favorite "artists" after Red Skelton. You'd be wrong on every count. 

What if I was to say that the art form in which they participate utilizes moving scenery, a kaleidoscopic array of lighting effects, a battery of props ranging from a forty square-foot inflatable plastic bubble to assorted pop art posters or a pile of trash, costumes of every imaginable shape, design and color, film clips in the background, and musical scores including hard rock, jazz-rock, raga-rock, jazz, elec­tronic yawping, symphonic orchestration, and even dead silence. Their work re­quires them to be in the best physical condition attainable because their work is more demanding physically than football or hockey. Perhaps if I was to tell you that Erick Hawkins, Twyla Tharp, Don Redlich and Gladys Bailin have something in common in that they have all been to Notre Dame in the last three years as part of past Contemporary Arts Festivals you might be able to get the answer. Bot once again I really doubt it since the art form 
they represent is the one least understood and least experienced by the majority of college students because it is the art form surrounded by the most misconceptions. 
The people mentioned above are the biggest names in modern dance -a new theatrical form that breaks away from the traditions and cliches of traditional art forms in a manner that not even cinema (unless it be the dance dominated cinema of Nikolais and Ed Emschwiller) can ever hope to attain. Yet surprisingly few people in the U.S.A. outside New York, Chicago and San Francisco have yet become aware of the inherent power in 

•• Nutting for all 
Dame,"  Scholastic  March  21, 1969, p.  
22ff.)  
First  point:  the  administrative  struc­ 

ture, though perhaps "severely inade­quate" (Connelly, Cullen and Payne, p. 22), is anything but unclear. Second, our president is clearly an executive and not an educator. And thirdly, the commun­ity, which our college bulletins proclaim, is "conceptually, practically, and actu­ally" non-existent. 
Will a Chancellor, added to the already existing structure, cause a "mess" by making the power structure ambiguous: would "there be unlimited confusion over who handles what in any certain situa­
1 tion?" We think not. 
It is essential that both the executive and educational interests of the university be represented in order to create a real community. Each issue which would pre­sent itself to the University's top adminis­trators would demand a sensitivity to both perspectives. Obviously, "external" and "internal" are rigorously arbitrary divisions (i.e. external: all those matters involving activities away from the cam­pus, such as commissions, fund raising, spokesman for the University at national and international events, etc.; and inter­nal: all those matters relating to on­campus activity, such as curriculum, cam­pus regulations, faculty-student relations, etc.), divisions which break down in the face of such issues as the Dow-CIA demonstrations and the IS-minute rule. 
However, confusion is not the result of splitting responsibilities, it is the result of failure to think and act in a clear manner. Two heads may be better than one; in cases like these, the situation would be handled jointly: mistakes in such situa­tions always being accountable to the Board of Trustees (forty-one men, not two.) 
This forces us to ask Dave's third question, What will the Chancellor ("be") do? 
The Chancellor will be "the highest appointed administrative officer of the UniverJity." He will function only par­tially as "public relations man." More importantly, he will be a man who meets and tries to understand those forces beyond the campus which play a vital 
Trial of '8' in book form 
A 320-page illustrated documentary of courtroom confrontations from the trial of the Chicago 8, edited from _the complete official 220,000 page transcnpt, 
will be published next week by Bantam Books in a $1.25 paperback. 
Rushed to press as the 27th Bantam Extra immediately after completion of the incredible five-month trial, the book is titled The Tales Of Hoffman and is the work of three young men who edited the transcript to show what transpired in the co :rtroom in the participants' own words. 
The excerpted portions not only reflect the highlights of the trial and the philosophies of the opposing interests, but also the bitter tlumor and outrageous order of the proceedings from both sides. 
The editors are Mark L. Levine, a School of Law presently working with a prominent New York law firm; George McNamee, a Yale graduate and member 

of  the  New  York  Stock Exchange; and  
Daniel  Greenberg,  a  Columbia  Law  
School  graduate presently teaching fifth  
grade.  
The  book's illustrations are  by Verna  

Sadock whose sketches have been the basis for NBC-TV news broadcasts throughout the trial since photographers were not admitted to the courtroom. The Bantam book will contain 25 of the artist's sketches. 
The manuscript was completed early tl!is week and Bantam immediately implemented its "instant publishing" schedule. Books will be off the press the first week of March and immediately role in shaping social, political, economic, and ecological factors on a national amt international level. He will be a bridge to the wider community, a man welcome on the campus and encouraged to seek out and assist the University and the broader community. He will do the immensely valuable work that our current President has done so well. 
Under Chancellor Hesburgh, we have 
suggested placing a devoted and truly 
learned educator to be the 'resident presi­
dent'. The university community which 
we feel is lacking (as earlier suggested) 
will be the only responsibility of the new 
President. 
The uniqueness of this reform is not 
what we would point to as a recommend­
ation, rather the proposal's attempt to 
create community is what we see as its 
principal justification. The titles 'Chancel­
lor' and 'President' have been granted by 
several academic institutions. To argue 
that this proves what we are seeking is 
feasible is fallacious reasoning, indeed. 
As Dave Stauffer has said, "I think it is 
hardly legitimate to argue that because 
something works elsewhere it will work 
here also." Agreed, but the converse of 
this statement is equally true: what we 
suggest may have no actual examples at 
hand (i.e. other universities where a Chan­
cellor-President structure exists), but this 
does not prove it can't be done. Our 
contention is that the creation of a 
Chancellor-President structure in these 
terms is theoretically possible. The titles 
come from other institutions, but the 
idea is probably quite different. --Titles 
matter little, what matters is the striving 
for community. 
What gave birth to an active Chancel­
lor-President campaign is not what you 
may suspect (a subtle attack on Father 
Hesburgh: promotion out of the picture); 
it arose out of the recognition that a 
balance must be struck at the highest 
level of power: an active executive and a 
resident teacher. 
-Nutting for President Headquarters. 


the revolutionary artistic expression which is modern dance. It's a profound comment on the state of the arts in America today when our modern dance companies are received with much more attention when they tour countries of Europe, Asia and Africa than they are when they tour the average communities of Middle America. 
I'm sure that part of the problem stems from the two ingrained misconceptions which immediately arise in most peoples' minds when they hear the words "modern dance." Some would envision modern dance in terms of traditional ballet which somehow creates the image in the mind of the uninterested observer of gossamer -skirted ballerinas tippy toeing around the stage while effeminate male dancers aimlessly whirl and twirl around them, occassionally pausing to nonchalantly catch a gossamer goddess as she swoons mysteriously into his out­stretched arms. The other alternative would apply to those inveterate boob­tube patrons of the arts who know that modern dance is that type of stuff done by those troupes of girls on The Jackie Gleason Show or The Dean Martin Show. Modern dance in reality is as different from the above misconceptions as night is from day, but it is the misconceptions which keep the average person from taking the opportunity to experience modern dance in its raw theatricality and coldly penetrating exploration into man's condition in the modern world. 
This week Notre Dame and St. Mary's students have another chance -and its 
V.e best chance to date -to explode their misconceptions about modern dance and find out why it has been proclaimed as the most powerful and imaginative art form on the American scene today. Start­ing today, the Contemporary Arts Festi­val brings The Murray Louis Dance Company to campus for a three day residency. Murray Louis is without a doubt the best male dancer in America today. For ten years he was the lead dancer with the Alwin Nikolais Company which has been consistently acclaimed for its imaginative use of props, costumes, lighting and ftlm effects as well as elec­
tronic  music.  
The  Louis  company  will  give  a  free  
lecture  demonstration  this  Thursday,  

February 26, at St. Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium at 8:30 P.M. Then on Satur­day night at 8:30 in O'Laughlin, the company will give a performance which will include Louis' most famous work Junk Dances, an outrageously satirical comment on the treasures of the banal in the affluent society, set to the tune of television commercials, recipes for cake­mixes and pop art. 
The Contemporary Arts Festival promises that the performance Saturday night will be the best ever so far this year, even better than the poetry reading by Ken Smith. Monterey Pop . ..or Tom Paine . ..or Genesis II. ..or the Son House Concert... or even Yellow Submarine. 
graduate of the New York University distributed throughout the world. Murray Louis 
.......-----------­
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1970
TilE O&rERIIEil
PAGE 6 





Poll to deal with academic, national affairs 
(continued from page 1) touched upon in the poll. In it. be beneficial to next year's stu­dents 
addition, less volatile subjects The only campus issue not 
included in the poll is the

such as.evaluation of the campus interest in. Since four people social atmosphere, living condi­
felt students had a strong 

coeducation question. Corso tions, and extracurricular activi­
explained, "We deliberately leftworked on it, I think we did a out coeducation since that sub­

ties are also included. 
pretty good job of hitting every 
ject was covered prettyConcerning the academic

major area." 
thoroughly in the previous 0/r

aspects of the university, the
In regard to views on campus 
server poll."

students will be askt:d to give
issues, students will be asked to On the national level, the poll

their opinions of such matters as
evaluate the success of the pre­

I the ROTC program, the Black takes up the questions of solu­
sent student government admini­tions for the Vietnam War and

~ Studies Program, Fn:e Univer­
stration and what they feel 

I the race problem. The students
sity, Non-Violence Seminar, and will be asked to evaluate theshould have been done that was
I I not done. They will also be the psychological services de­performance of President Nixon
I asked to offer opinions of the partment. The students will be 
I 
and offer their choice for the
job being done by the Observer, given the opportunity to evalu­office if an election were immi­
the Scholastic, ans WSND. ate Notre Dame as a whole, to nent. Such areas as legalization
indicate what they support and of marijuana, economic reformThe more controversial cur­
rent issues of drugs, recruitment what they oppose in university
~ 
and educational opportunity forby Dow-CIA, military research, policy and what changes they minority groups are also touched1l.nd racism on' campus are all feel should be made to improve

I 
upon.

I 
In explaining the necessity for 

I 
such a poll, Corso pointed out

OBSERVER STAFF MEETING 
the need to know what the students are really thinking be­fore any changes can take place. 
"The primary reason we put out this poll, is to find out what

(FOR ALL PERSONNEL) 
the Notre Dame student body wants done and how it feels efforts in various fields such as minority recruitment, and acade­mic reform are going." Corso

Fl'iday at 4:20 
said, "We hope that this poll will 

ACCOUNTING, MATH AND ENGINEERING GRADU­ATES FOR SYSTEMS, PRODUCTION, RESEARCH, IN­DUSTRIAL ENGINEERING, TESTING ENGINEERING, FIELD ENGINEERING~ DESIGN AND SALES 
The Inland Steel Company,,. East Chicago, In­diana, invites you to investigate our many career opportunities. Consult the specific job descriptions in the pocket of our brochure. Our representative will be on your campus on 
MONDAY, MARCH 2, 1970 

INLAND STEELI COMPANY 
INDIANA HARBOR. WOUS 
EAST CHICAGO.• INDIANA 
G> 


Equa] Opportunity Emp1oyers m the PJans for Progress Program 




INTERESTED IN WORKING FOR THE OBSERVER? 
A WORKSHOP WILL BE HELD FOR ALL THOSE INTERESTED 
IN NEWS AND FEATURE WRITING. TOPICS WHICH WILL BE COVERED INCI.UDE: 
STRUCTURE OF A NEWS STORY 
INTERVIEWING TECHNIQUE THE ROLE OF INTERPRETATION IN A NEWS STORY. 
THE QUESTION OF OBJECTIVITY. 
DA T£5: Mon.-March 2 Wed. -March 5 
TIM£: 7:30-9:oo 
PI.ACE: 356 O'Shaughnessy 
Ca11 1715 for information 
dent government in determining "I'd also like to extend special its course of action," he said. thanks to Steve Flavin and the 
Corso expressed the hope that hall clerks who gave up their the response to the poll will be time so that the poll could be significant enough to make some distributed and collected as solid conclusions as to the direc­quickly as possible," Corso tion of opinion among the stu-added. 
Gun control favored 
mitted the relatively small size
(continued from page 1) 

of his organization, which hesible. A gun-owner would be estimated to be a few thousand.
prohibited from selling, giving, While he felt that large numbersor loaning a gun to someone of people gave moral support to

who did not possess a license. In his council, they do not offer
either of these violations, the 
gun-owner would lose his li­

financial contributions. He cense. 
complained of the shaky budget 
Steinberg gave two examples of the organization. He said that of bills before Congress that he he served as not only Executive found desirable but not perfect. Director, but also as Treasurer, The first is sponsored by Senator 
but was not being paid a cent for Tydings of Maryland, the second 
his work, and therefore was only by Senator Dodd of Connect­a part time worker. He added icut. that his organization included 
He lamented that Congress­Mayor Lindsay and Adlai ional debate is behind schedule Stevenson III. on these two bills. Steinberg 

Age of Vasari
however, considers it unlikely 
that either of these bills, or any 


lecture topic
like it will be passed in the near 

Tonight in the Notre Damefuture. He placed the blame for Art Gallery, Janos Scholz, a col-·this on the Nixon administra­lector of Italian drawings andtion. 
noted musician will give a lec­"The present administration is 
ture entitled "Federigo
opposed to such bills. This ad­Zuccaro's Sketchbook of theministration will not move. Until Life of Taddeo Zuccaro." This is

the administration strongly 

the second lecture in "The Age
pushes for gun control legisla­
tion there won't be any." 

of Vasari" lecture series accom­panying the Art Gallery's exhibit 
Stein berg favored legislation of 16th Century Florentine art.
that which allows a judge the power to grant heavier penalties The public is cordially in­to crimes involving the use of vited. firearms. He felt that this would not replace the need for positive 
gun controL 

CPA film

As a last point, Steinberg ad-A film documentary of the
mversity of Dayton 

nine month occupation of the black ghetto of Wilmington, 
BEER GIRLS

TGIF 

Delaware by National Guard troops after Dr. Martin Luther
February 27, 1970 

King's assassination in April 1968, will be shown tonight at
Timothy's-3:00 

7:15 and 8:15 in Nieuwland Science HalL 
Brown & Irving 

The film is being brought to campus by Professor John Williams of the History Depart­
Sponsored by Chi Sigma Alpha ment in conjunction with the CPA and Complicity Week.
Fraternity___ 


STEPAN CENTER -DANCE SPECTACULAR­
FEATURING 
THE JAGGERS 
"THE RAPPER" AND 
THE ONE-EYED JACKS 
PLUS 
BRAND X 
8:30 to 12:00 p.m. Adm. $2.50
Friday -Feb. 27, 1970 

'DIRECT FROM THE FILLMORE EAST' 
the DREAM 
DANCE -CONCERT Stepan Center 8:30p.m. Sat. -Feb. 28 
'WOODSTOCK in South Bend ?' 
Tickets on sale tonight in Din~ng Halls 
I l 
. prc:~~ented by 
l.: 
STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION 

PAGE 7
New CO Club to provide draft information 
by John Papa 
Approximately sixty persons attended a meeting in LaFortune Student Center last night explor­ing the possibility of the form­ation of a draft council and conscientious objection club at Notre Dame. The meeting was presided over by junior Tom Hampson, who led the discus­sion on the conception, purpose and goals of the club. 
The group was formed to be informative to anyone interested in the draft or conscientious objection and also to be support­ive to those persons attempting to receive CO status. The club, titled the Notre Dame Con­scientious Objection Club, was the conception of Hampson when he became interested in a CO classifica lion. 
He felt Notre Dame was in need of an organization that could help council students on the draft law and inform them of any alternative avenues open to them. 

lie stated, "The club would be a service to the university in that it provides information to its members on the complexities of the draft and the alternatives to it with emphasis on conscien­tious objection. In turn, it would be an agent of information to the en tire campus." 
Hampson stated there are many people interested in the fine points of the draft law and that, "hopefully we can get these people together, study and discuss individual questions and problems, and find out what's going on." He claimed this would he the primary function of the group. 
Once organized Hampson plans to set up a table in the library or the Huddle and pass out mostly free information on the draft and conscientious ob­jection. The club members hope to form small groups and cover topics relevant to each in­dividual. 
Counselors from the South Bend Draft Union and a few Notre Dame law students are supporting the club and are of­fering their services. One of the counselors present at the meet-




Beytagh joins L.aw faculty 
Francis X. Beytagh, Jr., assis­
tant to Solicitor General of the 
United States Erwin Griswold, 
will join the Notre Dame Law 
St:hool faculty August I, 1970. 
As assistant, since 1966, Bey­
tagh has argued many govern­
ment cases before the U.S. 
Supreme Court. lie also served 
as Senior Law Clerk to the re­
t ired Chief Just icc Earl Warren 
and taught a seminar in constitu­
tional litigation at the University 
of Virginia Law School in I 969. 
CORRECTION 
The story thai appeared m the Ohscrvrr yesterday, headlined "Proposes Channeling of Stu­dent Union Funds", was parti­ally inaccurate. Senator Russ Stone did not propose taking away any money from the Stu­dent Union to send back to the halls. Rather he proposed taking a certain amount off the top of every student's activity fee, and sending it back to the halls. The story also mentioned that Stone proposed giving money to the halls thai were not that well off financially first, under his bill. What Stone said was that smaller halls should be allotted more 
funds than bigger halls. 

ing said he hoped to recruit 
people in the club to help coun­
sel others. 
Hampson envisioned that the club could provide a 'trial run' of a CO's necessary appearance before his local selective service board. He said this would give the person some insight into what may be asked of him in this interview, plus some prac­tice in keeping a desired compos­ure throughout the discussion. 
The club membership could be used as proof of the sincerity of CO and it would provide witnesses to this sincerity as demanded by the draft board. The members of the club would also support the CO before his board by writing letters in his behalf. 
The club plans to aid in the 
next moratorium by sponsoring seminars on different aspects of the draft and conscientious ob­jection. A few topics mentioned were resistance and emigration to Canada. No olan~ were final­ized and it was questioned whether the seminars would be held in conjunction with the 
moratorium or just on weekends in the future. Forms to secure attendance will be distributed soon. 
Hampson speculated that the club may become involved in a selective conscientious objection national campaign that would allow a person ro qualify for a 
Hair Styling the Continental Way Cut, Hair Coloring and Straightening-Specials [or students 


Our Motto: "Have long hair and be well groomed" 
For appointment call 234-0811 Continental Hair Styling 306 Sherland Bldg. Comer Michiglln..Jfifenon 
Certified Master Stylists The Baron and Miss Treva to lltnl& and pamper you 

CO classification if lie was a­gainst a specific conflict. This would nullify the necessity to object to all wars. 
Hampson reiterated that the purpose of the club was not to intimidate a person to be a CO, but to provide a free atmosphere to study alternate services. 
GIRLS BEER 
Notre Dame Fire Up 2 p.m. to ? 
ALL THE BEER 

$1.00 $1.0 YOU CAN DRINK 
Sponsored by Zeta Phi Zeta Sorority 215 K. Street Dayton, Ohio (Down from U.D. Library 
Wrestlers drub liT, swimmers dumped byCMU 
Five Notre Dame wrestlers to 13-5 by virtue of a pin in the in the Catholic Intercollegiateregistered pins as the Fighting 14 2 pound class. 
Tournament held at John CarrollIrish trounced Illinois Institute Freshman Bob Habig (ISO) College in Cleveland. The Irishof Technology 41-5 in a match avenged his teammates' pin by 

return home for their fin1tlheld Tuesday night in the ACC. nailing ijis opponent to the mat match of the season in the ACCThe win boosted Notre Dame's in the third period with a superb 
this coming Tuesday at 7 p.m.

dual meet record to 4-6. effort. Jim Hansen (158) turned versus the University of Illinois.
Captain Keith Giron, Bob Ha­in a highly efficienlt perfor­big, Jim Hansen, Todd Carey, mance, pinning his man in the The Notre Dame swim team and Dean Olmstead all notched first period. Tom Powell (167) suffered a 74-39 defeat at the pins in leading the Irish romp. added a hard fought 3-2 decision hands of Central Michigan Tues­
Notre Dame never trailed, los­victory to the Irish point totals. day, adjusting the. du;;J meet 
ing only one bout in the match. The final two matches were slate to 7-6 with one meet re­The Irish won the opening also pins, Todd Carey ( 177) maining. match on forfeit as Illinois Tech scoring in the third period and Gene Krathaus tied NO
an had no one to grapple with Dean Olmstead ( 190) after record in the I00 yard freestyle 118-pound Phil Sutton. Tom dominating his man completely, in the meet, equalling the 49.6 Ciaccio ( 126) was the first to pinned him in the second stanza. set by J. May in 1968. Krathaus take the mat for Notre Dame Irish heavyweight Phil Gustafson also won the 50 free with a 22.4, 
and responded with a I 0-2 vic­was awarded his match by a and Jim Cooney was right be­tory. Giron (134) put the Irish forfeit. hind for second place honors in ahead 13-0 with a third period This weekend Coach Terry that event. pin before Illinois closed the gap Mather's charges will participate John Sherk triumphed in the 
1000 free with a 10:44.4, but 

Rich Allen happy but greedy 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. he has the Cards in. Some even Tommey and Devine both are (UPI) -Richie Allen is all heart. say he has them over a barrel, back in St. Louis and they'll be 
He sees no reason to hold up inasmuch as they gave up Curt talking shortly with Allen. Be­the St. Louis Cardinals, and be­Flood, Tim McCarver, Joe Hoer­fore that, they'll be talking with sides he wants to do what he can ner and Byron Browne in the Busch to see how he feels. to help lick inflation. So instead deal. "We feel the salary we pay a of trying to get it all by demand­Gussie Busch, the Cardinal 
player coming to us for the first

ing $200,000, he's going to be owner, isn't chintzy about time. has to be consistent withbig about it and take only money. Neither are General the salaries we are paying players 
Manager Bing Devine and Assis­
$150,000. who helped us win three pen­
When last heard from, you tant General Manager Jim Too­nants and two World Series," may remember, he had or.e mey, who deal directly with the Tommey explains.
other small request. players. 
Orlando Cepeda, unhappy"All I ask is to get out of The Cards tried making Allen with the Giants, was happyPhiladelphia," he said, "and I'll feel like part of the family by when he came over with the

be the happiest man in th·e offering him a raise. They Cardinals. Roger Maris, unhappy
world." boosted him to pretty close to with the Yankees, was happyOkay. So now he's out of the $1 00,000 level. 
when he was dealt to the Cards,Philadelphia -but he still isn't Or maybe it's important with and the same for Vada Pinson

the happiest man in the world. him being the highest paid when he moved over from theHe knows the ticklish position player in the game. Willie Mays Reds. 
:::::::::::::::::::::;:~:~::::!!:.:::=~==~==::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::. is No. I in lhe money depart­
Richie Allen is something else. 

Notre Dame will play the winner ment right now with $130,000. 
He doesn't change or adapt thatof the Mid-American Conference Carl Yastrzemski is top man easily.

in the first round of the NCAA in the American League with What this country really needs Tournament in Dayton on March $115,000, so Allen doesn't see is a city that meets with Richie7. Ohio University has virtually where $150,000 for him would Allen's approval. 
be that much out of line.
:~=~~~f::~~Jg~:::lW~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=== 
ND 25 -game bask~etball statistics 
PLAYER G FGA FGM PCT FTA FTM PCT REB AVG TP AVG Austin Carr, G 25 656 366 .558 225 185 .822 212 8.5 917 36.7 Collis Jones, F 25 422 192 .455 102 61 .598 313 12.5 445 17.8 Sid Catlett, C 24 231 99 .429 69 32 .464 181 7.5 230 9.6 Mike O'Connell, G 24 135 56 .41 s 61 42 .689 69 3.0 154 6.4 Tom Sinnott, G 23 109 50 .459 20 10 .500 72 3.3 110 4.8 Jim Hinga, F 23 78 27 .346 32 .688 57 2.5 3.3
22 76 Doug Gemmell, Ft 16 52 27 .519 16 9 .563 43 2.7 63 3.9 Jackie Meehan, G 23 63 28 .444 21 .667 43 1.8
14 70 3.0 John Gallagher, F IS 39 19 .487 12 9 .750 13 0.9 47 3.1 Jay Ziznewski, C 19 42 24 .571 29 9 .310 57 3.0 57 3.0 Team Reboun'ds 
162 6.1 tOut for season with broken ankle *John Pleick, C 
16 135 61 .452 42 24 .571 107 6.7 146 9.1 *Ineligible second semester NOTRE DAME 
25 1962 949 .484 629 417 .663 1329 53.2 2315 92.6 OPPONENTS 25 1880 831 .442 623 427 .669 1141 45.6 2089 83.6 
Results: HIGH SCORERS ATTENDANCE +ND 84 Minnesota 75 @ Carr 31, Jones 19 6,500 +ND 87 Michigan 86 H Carr 37, Jones IS 7,324 +ND 98 Valparaiso 82 @ Carr 39, Jones 26 4,300c +ND Ill Northern Illinois 92 H Carr 42, Jones 19 7,047 +ND 65 St. Louis 53 H Carr 29, Jones & Catlett 16 6,897 -ND 63 Kansas 75 H c~rr 25, Jones 19 7,806 ~-ND 89 Indiana 88 @ Carr & Jones 30 5,411 -ND 100 Kentucky 102 lv Carr 43, Cattlett 17 17,24Sc +ND 84 West Virginia 80 SB Carr 27, Jones IS 5,745 -ND 83 South Carolina 84 SB Carr 43, Catlett 14 4,720 -ND 77 U.C.L.A. 108 @ Carr 24, Jones 20 12,617 +NO 91 Fordham 76 H Carr 29, Pleick 19 6,757 +ND 94 Villanova (OT) 92 H Carr 33, Jones & Catlett 17 7,830+ND 96 DePaul 73 H Carr S I, Catlett 12 7,180+NO 82 Duquesne 66 cs Carr 35, Pleick 13 11,500-ND 82 Michigan State 85 @ Carr 39, Pleick II 10,726 +ND 135 St. Peter's 88 H Carr 44, Jones 27 10,867 
• +lSD 96 Marquette (20T) 95 H Carr38, Jones 17 11,343c +ND 
90 St. John's 76 H Carr 33, Catlett 20 10,463+ND 95 Detroit (OT) 93 @ Jones 25, Carr 21 3,410
+ND 
115 Tulane 80 H Carr,S3, Jones & Catlett 13 9.467+ND 77 N.Y.U. 65 MSG Carr 30, Jo11es 21 7,172
+ND 114 West Virginh. 78 H Carr 55, Jones 13 11,343c+ND 121 Butler il4 @ Carr SO, Jones 40 17.000c 
in the 200 breaststroke. Doughad two false starts in the 500 and was disqualified. Returning 
Free was the only other Irish to swim in the 400 freestyle 
swimmer to outrace a C.M.U. relay, Sherk followed Doug opponent, placing third in the Free, Craig Ferrell, and Vince I 00 freestyle. Spohn in a winning effort. Saturday the Irish close their 
John Cox achieved a second dual meet schedule by hosting in three meter diving, and Mike Cincinnati at Rockne Memorial McDonough was the runner-up at 2 p.m. 

JIM MURRAY 

Playing a Bigger Game 
© 1970, Los Angeles nmes 

A linebacker is kind of the archangel of football. It is his duty, wherever the sinners have let the forces of evil slip through, to 'swoop down, plug up the hole and hurl Satan's halfbacks back. 
I don't suppose anybody ever filled the role, in life and on the field, the way Donn Moomaw did -and does. "He is a zealot in cleats," his coach, the late Henry (Red) Sanders used to say. St. Michael in a gold helmet. 
No one ever played the game with the cold fury he did. Ht: was the terrible swift sword of the 1951-52 UCLA team which went the longest of any Bruin team -13 games -without defeat, despite the fact it had an offense as guileless as a farmer's daughter and as slow as a glacier. In 1952, its defense intercepted an incredible 34 passes and set the conference record for throwing quarterbacks in the end zone for safeties and the NCAA record for fewest fumbles. It lost the Rose Bowl bid to USC, 14-12, in a game decided by, of all things, a lateraL But it had already beaten the team USC was to meet in the Rose Bowl, Wisconsin, 20-7, in a game in which Donn Moomaw spent the day operating alone behind a 7-man line throwing Alan Ameche around for minus yardage. 
The pro scouts drooled. The Rams drafted him No. l. The very name "Moomaw!" had quarterbacks flinching. 
Moomaw was everybody's idea of what a linebacker should be -6 feet 5 inches of avenger, 225 pounds of wrath. A linebacker, it has been said, should be part-thug and part-Thor-a punisher. 
Donn Moomaw could have been one of the great pro players of all time but he fell in with good company. He was All-American, All-Coast All-Cosmos when he hit the road to Damascus one night when tw; new roommates moved in with him. 
Terry Oebay and Bob Heydenfeldt were reading a book when Donn came home to the room one night. Since it didn't have any "X's" and "O's" in it or pictures of naked girls or generals on horseback in it, Moomaw was curious. "How's it come out?" legend has it that he asked. Legend has it, also, that Debay handed him the book "We don't want to spoil it for you," he is supposed to have said. 
The rook has a sock beginning, an unhappy endmg and has been on the best-seller lists since the days parts of it were written on rock. It had a real catchy title, "The Bible," and Donn Moomaw couldn't put it down. To this day. Christianity had recruited a linebacker. 
The Rams telephoned their No. 1 draft choice at the All-Star game in Chicago the next August to discuss wages, hours and working conditions. When the negotiator hung up, the general manager looked up quizzically. "Well, what's the story?" he asked. The negotiator sighed. "Can we schedule our games on Saturday?" he asked. 
Donn Moomaw knew he was going to be too busy on Sunday mornings to report for taping. He went to Canada (where he became All-Canadian) where they played on Wednesdays and Saturdays. Moomaw had found a coach he could play for forever. He quit the secondary for the pulpit. He enrolled at Princeton Theological Seminarv. "I saw the trustworthiness of Jesus Christ," he explained. "I show~d him the hurt me, the fumbling me, the guilty me -not the guy riding around on peoples' shoulders with his picture in the c:~rd tricks. Also, you never ride the bench with Christ. You go both ways, 60 minutes." 
In a sense, the Fellowship of Christian Athletes was formed in that 1953 All-Star camp. History says it was the brainchild of Branch Rickey and Dr. Louis Evans and its first national conft:rence was in Colorado in 1956. But the Moomaw legacy at UCLA saw 8 of II starters on the 1954 championship team "committed" (as the FCA coinage has it) to Christianity. The team rolled up 40 points a game (72 against Stanford and 61 against Oregon State), and won the national championship. 
The FCA today could field a better team than the Kansas City Chiefs. And I don't mean morally. 
They are having a banquet at the Century Plaza to fund their summer camp programs. Bart Starr, Tom Landry, Raymond Berry, Maxie Baughan, Jack Kemp, Bobby Mitchell and Don Perkins are some who will be there. 
It will be rated "G." But when the Reverend Moomaw kicks it off with a prayer, you can bet me all the QB's there will be giving siient thanks he's been red-dogging sin all these years instead of them. 





