.-------~---------------··---~--~ --­
~ 


Krashna walks out after vote 
Claims dlsappolnt•••ent 
at Afro bud,et veto 
By Dave McCarthy 
Student Body President Dave Krashna walked out of last night's Senate budget hearings following defeat (23 no-16 yes) of a motion to allocate $4300 to the Afro-American Society. He said, "With apologies to those who voted yes, I think this body is going to have to pick a new chairman," before picking up his gavel and leaving. Student Body Vice President Mark Winings assumed chairmanship of the Senate for the remainder of the 
meetin~. 
Operating as a Committee of the Whole the Senate devoted last night's two and a half hour session to voting on allocations to the 1 7 organizations requesting funds. Slow moving as usual, it voted on budgets for only five of the organizations (HPC, WSND, UAC, ISO, and the Afro-American Society). 
Considerations progressed unemotionally, almost mechani­cally until it came time to deal with the Afro-American Society budget. 
The Afro-American Society had requested $631 0. The high­est allocation suggested last night was $5000; it was defeat­ed. Then, Mark Winings addressed the Senate in support of a $4300 allocations saying, "They (Afro-American Society) should be allowed to determine their own program ... $4300 is the least amount we can, in good conscience give to the Afro­American Society.'' 
Krashna then momentarily surrendered the chairmanship to Winings before speaking to the Senate himself. "This point of the budget is most pertinent to me," he said, "We should make a committment to the black stu­dent at Notre Dame ... It is really a very small committ­ment." Krashna emphasized that he was speaking, not only as a black student, but also as Student Body President, as well as a person. 
He reassumed the chairman­
ship while spokesmen against the 
'Simple'to endwar 
says Jan~,f9b!!s!~h, 
By Dave Coleman , Cleveland airport over a misun-
Challenging the miles of pub-derstanding ansmg from some 
lished rhetoric to the contrary, 1OS canisters of "health food 
Jane Fonda simply stated to an pills," and an assault on a "bur­
audience in Stepan Center that ly" FBI agent who objected to 
"It is so simple to end the war her using the bathroom." 
[in Southeast Asia]" and ac-She spoke out against prison 
cused President Nixon of "desire procedures in this country con­
to sabotage the Paris peace cerning political prisoners and 
talks." told how a young female politi-
Citing top Vietnamese govern-cal activist was placed in a 
ment officials as being openly "sweat box with no air, no win­
opposed to the corrupted gov-dows her hands strapped to her 
ernment of South Vietnam, Miss ' 
sides ... so she can't move ... 
Fonda noted that their policies her body covered with ugly, pur­
;oncerning peace in Southeast pie bruises because she is beaten 
Asia are the same as the Provi-regularly by the guards." 
sional Revolutionary Govern-"They [her prisonmates] de­
ment (PRG) and the N.L.F. cided to protest, and they threw 
These include the total with-eggs and water at the guards, and 
drawal of United States troops were threatened with tear gas 
with a definite final withdrawal and mace, and threatened with 
date set, and the ousting of the death." She wondered about the 
three top men in the present ad­
"reaction" temperament of the
ministration of South Vietnam. 
mass of American activists ­
Miss Fonda said that President 
whether it would take another
Nixon, by misrepresentation of 
Cambodia to bring them back to
the P RG's peace proposal, 
the political scene again.
sought "to sabotage the Paris 
She sighted President Nixon's
Peace talks," by claiming that 
advocation "in the past of the 
the PRG was trying to "dis­
use of tactical nuclear weapons,"
mantle the entire existing gov­
and said "that a delayed reac­
ernment," and "exclude and in­
tion'' to the President's policy
clude whoever they want." 
on the use of these weapons
For Miss Fonda, the obvious 
would be impossible. 
solution to the war is the setting 
Viewing the campus as "be­
of the final date of withdrawal 
longing to the students," Miss 
and the popular "ousting" of the 
Fonda gave what she felt to be 
Thieu leadership presently in 
the needs and aspirations of the 
power. 
modern American university. No 
Although her speech was 
ROTC, no recruiters "of death",
keyed mainly on American in­
no recruiting by chemical com­
volvement in Southeast Asia, 
panies responsible for produc­
Miss Fonda did not fail to men­
tion and research of chemical 
tion the domestic scene and the 
warfare weapons, and no mili­
harassment of political liberals 
tary research facilities on cam­
and activists by the establish­
pus were among the varied sug­
ment. 
gestions . 
She mentioned her personal (Contmued on Pn1:e 2) 
walkout. 
$4300 allocations addressed the body. Stay Senator Russ Stone said, "Are we representatives of the Student Body, or leaders? We have to decide what the Student Body of the University of Notre Dame wants." 
T. C. Treanor, freshman Senator from Badin Hall said, "Those who elected us placed faith in our minds . . . We weren't elected to sit down and feel empathy for the Afro-Amer­ican ... We were elected to think." 
Chuck Ryan, Sorin Hall Sena­tor, spoke against the idea of making any allocations in order to be considered "a good guy." 
A roll call vote ensued. Upon learning that the result was 23 to 16 against, Krashna excused himself. He has been unavailable for comment. 
Denis Conroy, Student Gov­ernment Treasurer distributed 
bud_gets of each of the organiza­
tions concerned as well as copies 
of the Finance Committee Rec­
ommendations. 
The HPC budget was consi­
dered first. The Finance Com­
mittee recommended that it be 
alloted $500. Mark Winings 
moved it be granted $3000. The 
rationale behind such a grant 
was that a large segment of the 
Student Body benefits from 
funds that are put into the Halls. "Channeling money back to the Halls is a very important thing," said Stay Senator Fred · Guiffrida, who favored the in­
creased allocation. 
WSND Station manager, Steve 
Dellapietra spoke to the Senate 
and told them that the radio 
station would find its requested 
$1025 "satisfactory." That was 
the Finance Committee recom­
mendation, and that is what the 
Senate approved. 
The University Arts Council received the $1 000 that the Finance Committee had recom­mended; 
Mishael Maduakolam, head of the International Student Organ­ization, explained his budged be­fore the Senate. Fisher Senator Rich Wall moved that ISO be al­loted the $5407 they requested, deducting the sum from .the al­locations to the Student Union Cultural Commission. Wall noted that it would be an opportunity for the Notre Dame student to 
be exposed to cross cultures from around the world. The 
Senate  approved  the  $2000  
Finance  Committee  recom­ 
mendation for the ISO.  

The Senate will continue its budget hearings Wednesday night at 7 p.m.. Whether or not Krashna will reside as chairman is not known since he was un­available for comment. 
Israel may rejoin talks 
MIDEAST (UPI) -Premier 
Golda Meir met with her cabinet 
in Jerusalem for five and one 
h a If hours yesterday amid 
reports that Israel may soon 
return to the U.N. supervised 
Middle East peace talks. Arab 
leaders continued efforts to 
settle the Jordanian crisis and 
revive the Arab Eastern Front 
against IsraeL 
The guns remained silent along the Arab Israeli fronts where a de fact truce has been in . effect since the expeFatitm-t7f the 90 day U.S. initiated cease 
fire on Nov. 5. Egype has agreed 
to another 90 day extension 
while Israel has said it will not 
fire unless fired upon first. 
The reports that Israel may 
decide to end its boycott of the 
talks under the auspices of U.N. 
mediator Gunnar V. Jarring were 
fanned by weekend public 
addresses by Defense Minister 
Moshe Dayan and Deputy 
Premier Yigal Allon. Both said 
the talks were the only hope for 
peace in the Middle East. 
Diplomatic sources said the 
remarks indicated israel may be 
attempting to offer Egypt and 
the Soviet Union a face saving 
formula by not insisting on a 
total rollback of the missiles the 
Israelis charged were moved 
closer to the Suez Canal in viola: tion of the odginal cease fire. 
Israeli cabinet secretary Michael Arnon ·told newsmen after the unusually long session that "no new political decisions were reached nor were any new proposals made." He said the cabinet will continue its discus­sions and Mrs. Meir will deliver a major policy address to the Knesset parliament later in the week. 
In Cairo the leaders of Egypt Sudan and Libya met for the fifth day in their efforts to resolve the government guerrilla crisis in Jordan which sources said had resulted in the "near disintigration" of the Arab Eastern Front against IsraeL 
Official Arab sources said. Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, Premier CoL Moammar Khadafy 
of Libya and Premier Maj. Gen. 
Jaafar Numeiri of Sudan were discussing 'measures to cure the disunity in the Arab world emphasized by the nine day civil war in Jordan in September. 
Arab diplomats said the 
Consl.dered the after
leaders effects of the civil war of major importance. They noted that the guerrilla government fighting
had resulted in a cessation of 
Palestinian gt!_Crrilla attacks against Israel and provoked poli­
tical crisis in Syria and Iraq as .IOC:OIXIIOC:OIXIOCICC:OIXIOC~CC:ao• 
well as in Jordan. Syria, iraq 
and Jordan made up the so­called Arab Eastern front against Israel. 
Ga.Tech 
procedure 
Students will be able to turn 
in their football ticketstto enable 
South Bend children to attend 
the Georgia Tech game today 
and tomorrow. Anyone wishing 
to contribute his or her tickets 
should go to the Convocation 
ticket office between the hours 
of nine and five either day. The 
tickets will be punched and a 
duplicate issued to the children. 
The plan has the backing of a wide range of people in the com­
munity including Father Ed­mund Joyce, Executive Vice President; Ara Parseghian; Tim Kelly and Larry DiNudo, co­
captians of the football team. Approximately 550 tickets tickets are needed. Co-ordinator Eric Andrus also asked any stu­dent with cars who ·~ouid be 
willing to pick the children up
!Saturday morning to contact 
~' 
p1un. 
MONDAY. NOVEMBER 9, 1970
PAGE 2 
7/IE OBSERVER. 
.SM C Library reshuH/ed to create space 
By Ahson Kittrell According to Sister Rita out. The ground floor seminar rage in the bowling alley room in will obtain the book for her. The 
At the beginning of this year, Clare, the head librarian, many room was converted into a the St. Mary's Library was faced plans were used to remedy the storage room and stock room, with the problem of too many situation. First, the rare books and the old storage room is now books and periodicals for the were removed from the rare a stack area. available space. The result was book room on the third floor of In addition to reshuffling cramping, and a shortage of the library. They were taken to rooms the library is also in the study areas. The library person-Regina Hall's library, which is proces~ of weeding and storing nel studied the situation, and has /located behind the chapel in some books. Weeding books con-finally decided upon what they 1 Regina. All the art books were sists of discarding books which believe to be the best method to moved to the rare book room are obviously out-dated. These alleviate the cramping. and reading space was created books are sold, given away, or 
for about twenty students. New simply thrown out.
Experienced typist will 
flourescent lighting was installed Other books which are not 
type days or evening> 
on the third floor in place of the out-of-date, but which are less-
term papers, theses, 
poorer lighting that had been used or are second or third dissertations, etc. 
there. More students could be copies, have been put into sto­aecomodated in the third floor
IBM electric typewriter 

study area if the need arises. 
very reaso~able rates 
What had been a storage room
call 289-5832 
on the ground floor was cleaned 
HOV • HOV • HO\ • HOV • HOV • HOV • H 'I • :1 • HOV • HOV • HuV ,.., ~ H 
VAT! CAN CITY (UPI) ­y v 
0 0 
Shouts of "houses-houses" rose
. 
from shanty dwellers in the 0 
0 
H H 
crowd in St. Peter's Square 
v v 
yesterday when Pope Paul 
H H 
appeared at his study window to 
0 0 
give his traditional weekly
v v 
blessing to pilgrims and tourists.
SOUTH BEND-THE SHERLAND BUILDING, 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
H H 
Neo Fascist youths and v v 
opponents of divorce competed 
0 Jfpuse P/ VisiPii ~~ 0 with the shanty dwellers for the
H H 
Pope's attention.
0 The House of Vision, Inc. 0 
v v 

But the only onl.)s to make any noise were the more than I 00 shanty dwellers. They
CULTURAL ARTS 
honked the horns of their furni­ture laden cars whid1 they drove into the square and shouted 
COMMISSION 
I CONTEMPORARY ARTS 
"houses-houses" when the Pope appeared.
FESTIVAL & 
Tens of thousands of persons live in shanties at the city's edge 
ACADEMIC COMMISSION 
because Rome lacks sufficient new housing. 
The Pope made no mention of 
any of the demonstrators during 
his brief speech. Giovanni 
PIIUENT 
THE SAN FRANCISCO 
Benelli, the Vatican substitute secretary of state, received two spokesmen for the shanty dwel­lers. Vatican sources said their 
MIME TROUPE 
NOV. 10 -~:30 P.M. 
pleas would be relayed to the
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
pontiff.ADMISSION -$2.00-CAF PATRONS FREE 
The sources said the Pope did 
Hyou keep saying youwant to do somethingwith your life-here's your chance to prove it. 
Today a young American has a great Go there as a follower. of Jesus deal to offer. The challenges for an Christ. Go there as a Maryknoll American abroad are tougher than Missionary. ever. But so is the need. Especially Preaching the gospel isn't easy for a Missionary. There is the in~ work. But the satisfactions are very tense need to bring people together deep because you are doing some­-people who don't understand us thing very important with your life. or themselves. Fill out the coupon and get the 
Go to Asia or Africa or South information you need to judge America in a non-political capacity. whether you should become a Go there as a brother and a friend. Maryknoll Missionary. 
For information, write to B I
r--------------· 
VOCATION DIRECTORI Maryknoll Missioners, Maryknoll, N.Y. 10545 I 
Dear Father:I 
Please send me.information about becoming a I Maryknoll Priest D Brother D Sister D
I 
Name I I ~A~d~dr~e~ss~----------------------------------1 
c~~it~y__________________~S~t~at~e________________ 
I
I' 
I do want.to Age Class Zip Code
L 
do somethmg. -I
--------------· 
the basement of Regina HalL Shelves have been installed, and presently about 2,200 books are stored here. These are mostly books which are hardly used. However, if the library staff no­tices that any of these books comes into greater demand, they can have it returned to the stacks. 
Although the rare books and the books in storage are not in the library building, they may still be used. A student wishing, to use one of them sould present her request to the librarian, who usual rules govern the use of these books: books fromstorage may be taken out as usual, and rare books must be used in the 
libn~ry. 
Sister Rita Clare emphasized that the process of weeding and storage would be continual. "We are not going to stop buying books and magazines", she said, "so we will continue the process as the need for space a­rises." Eventually, Sister said, the library will have to construct /either a new building or an ad­
dition. 

not even see a young man from divorce in Catholic Italy for the the Italian Social Movement first time held up a sign reading ( MSI)--the nco-Fascist party­"referendum." Divorce oppo­who chained himself to a lamp­nents in Parliament have said post. He and MSI members they would call a national refer­passing out handbills were endum on divorce if the bill 
protesting the detention of three passes Parliament. They said persons held without trial since such a referendum probably May 24 when they were arrested would defeat the measure. 
during a political parade and Italian officials found tempor­clash with police in Milan. ary shelter for I 0 of the shanty A handful of persons who like families after the demonstration 
lhc Pope oppose a bill to allow 
Fonda urges release 
(Continued (rom Page 1) 
On the m~re positive side, she stance, to question the issues, asked for continued support of "taking nobody 's word for any­
tning."political prisoners, the Gl move-Audience reaction to Miss ments, commenting that "to­
Fonda's speech seemed quitemorrow, it may be you." 
warm. However, some hecklersRounding out her speech with persisted in shouting and Miss 
a lively question and answer Fonda's only comment after period, Miss Fonda noted that the end state she sees, is the in-someone hurled an egg at her 
and missed was "You look veryternational state where it will lonely." It was estimated that 
be possible for all men to be between I000 to 1300 were pre­equal. She asked that students sent for the speech. be not so easily converted to her 
t Ara backs Tech plan [ 
iiii We would like to convey to the student body our support anct;:;: i:i~ood wishes for the Georgia Tech Football Game ticket project;~;~ :;:;sponsored by the Student Government, whereby the students give;:;: :;:;up their tickets to a youngster from the Smith Bend area who;:;: 
~ N
;:;:otherwise might never have the opportunity to see an Irish football:;:; :;:;game. ;:;: ~;~; The South Bend community has supported Notre Dame athletics:~;~ ;:;:Cor many years, and this program is one way in which we can show:;:; ;:;:our gratitude for that support. We are happy to see the student body;;:; ;~;~ndertake such a fine and generous project, and we urge all studentsi~: :;~to help in it as much as possible by donating their ticket for this:;:; ~:~aturday's game. It is a small sacrifice, but one which will have great:;:; :::?ignificance and provide much happiness for the 700 or so children:;:; :;:;Nho will attend the game. :;:; :;~ Ara Parseghian :;:; ::;:; Larry Dinardo :;:; ::;:: Tim Kelly :;:; 
~:=:~'i(:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::l. 
MOST COMPLETE ATHLETIC STORE IN THE AREA 
Adidas -Basketball, Soccer & Trac~ Shoes 
Northland Hockey Sticks 
Bauer Hockey Skates 
N.D. Jacket & En-Diems 
T-Sizirts Imprinted for any organization 
MIDWEST ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT 117 N HILL IT COIINEIIIO BEIID AVE a HILL IT 
tel: 212..110 
PAGE
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1970 
711E OBSERJJER. 
View from the Crosslakes: many visions 
CCUM to meet 
Members of the Catholic Committee on Urban Ministry (CCUM), an organization of priests engaged in urban work throughout the country, will meet at Moreau Seminary to­morrow and Wednesday under the auspices of the Institute for Urban Studies. 
Msgr. Johhn J. Egan of the Urban Studies staff and the founder of CCUM, called the meeting of CCUM representa­tives to explore the thrust and social action focus of urban ministry in the '70's. 
Twenty-three priests in na­tional and diocesan urban affairs and social action posts, men en­gaged in work in Black and Chi­cano communities, and universi­ty urban specialists will attend the meeting. 
Resource persons for the meeting include Rev. Lucius Walker, Director of the Inter­religious Foundation for Com­munity Organizaton headquart­ered in New York,, Rev. James Morton, Director of the Urban Training Center for Christian Mission in Chicago, and Dr. David Ramage, Vice-President of the Center for Community Change in Washington, D.C. 
Hesburgh on ABC 
The Rev. Theodore M. l-Ies­burgh, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame and chairman of the U.S. Commis­sion on Civil Rights, will be a guest on ABC Network's Dick Cavett Show November 18. 
It will be the first appearance on any of television's late-night talk shows for the 53-year-old priest who has headed Notre Dame since 1952 and is the only 
remaining  original  member  of  
the  Civil  Rights  Commission  
appointed  by  President  Eisen­ 

hower in 1957. Actress Deborah Kerr will also be a guest on the show. The program is seen in the South Bend area on Elkhart's WSJV-TV (Channel 280' starting at II :30p.m. (EST). 
Cavett, the newest of the challengers to NBC's Johnny Carson and CBS's Merv Griffin was the subject of a recent Lif~ magazine cover sotry which reported that his 90-minute show has increased its share of the audience from 7 per cent to 14 per cent in ten months. ABC recently renewed his contract for 12 months. 
FOR ALL YOUR TRAVEL NEEDS Call or t'isit OVEIICAARD TRAVEL AGENCY 801 N. MICHIGAN SOUTH BEND, IND. 46601 (Next to Nicolas Pizza) Phone 232-2253 No Service Fees  
The Observer Is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Db server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class Postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.  

Arson attempt fails 
The Observer received a report yesterday that an attempt to burn the ROTC Building Fri­day night failed due to the pre­sence of students in the building at the time of the attempt. The Campus Security Office would not release any details of the in­cident to the Observer and no one could be found at the ROTC Building to confirm or deny the report. Security said that details would be available Monday from director of security Arthur Pears. 
Freehill appointed 
The appointment of John F. Freehill as director of personnel services for Saint Mary's College has been announced by Sister M. Alma, acting president. He will be responsible for recruitment and employment, training, wage, salary and group insurance administration, _safety, personnel records and "other employer. 
Freehill joined the Saint Mary's staff after having served as personnel officer at the University of Missouri in Rolla for the past three years. He had previously done personnel work for the Federal Glass Company 
of Columbus, Ohio. A graduate of the University of Dayton, he holds his B.S. in business admini­stration. 
He is a member of the American Management Associa­tion and the College and Univer­sity Personnel A;sociation. 
Changing Priorities 
C. William Verity, president and chief executive officer of Armco Steel Corporation, Mid­dletown, Ohio, will discuss "Changing Priorities" in a talk at 
7:30 p.m. on November 12 in Notre Dame's Center for Con­tinuing Education. 
The talk is part of the Execu­tive Lecture Series sponsored by the Graduate Division of the uni­versity's College of Business Ad­series are to expose the business leaders of tomorrow to the thoughts, ideas and aspirations of the business leaders of today, and to deepen understanding and cooperation between the business and academic com munities. 
Verity joined the Armco com­pany in 1 940, became director of organization planning and de­velopment in 1957, director of public relations in 1961, and president in 1965. He is a direc­tor of the First National Bank Middletown; The Mead Pape; Company, Dayton, Ohio; Busi­ness International, New York, N.Y., and the Boston Company, Boston, Mass.. 
Dr. Adler to speak 
Mortimer Adler, Director of the Institute of Philosophical Research, Chicago, will speak at 8 p.m. tonight in the Library Auditorium on the subject "Law, Coercion, and Dissent." 
Adler is the author of How to 
I Ill II e•' I
It can make things work for you. ·. ······... 
It's that kind of book. National Bible Week Committee Read your Bible. You'll see. New York, New York 10023 
P.O. Box 1170, Ansonia Station 
If you don't have a Bible of your own Good. I'm sending you one dollar.
, , 
Please send me one Bible. 
we II send you one for a dollar. 
NAME _________________________ 
Hard cover and everything. 
ADDRESS---------------------­
Just one should do it. 
CITY______ STATE __ZIP___ 
The Bible lasts a long time. 
.·········..········ 
30th Annual National Bible Week, November 22-29, 1970. An lnt~rfaith effort. 
look Wbo nab~ tl)e Jitblt. 
..... ........ 
Read a Book, and The Diffe­rence ofMan and the Difference 
It Makes, and has written on numerous philosophical topics. He is sponsored by the Collia­gate Seminar, The Department of Philosophy, and the Student Union Academic Commission. 
TYPING 
An,. material, an)! feligth, c-harts and diagrama,, $.5~/page. Will pick iqJ'and del•ver.i. CaU Connie Paden 289-0177 after 4 PM 
THE CRYPT 
Discount Records 
has moved to the 
Fiesta Lounge LaFortune Center 
HOURS 2-5 
RECORD PRICES -$3.10 & $3.60 
OPENING TODAY 

THE OBSERVER 

An Independent Student NewspiiMf 
The Budget 
The recommendations that the Senate Finance Committee released to the Student Senate last week are a case of misplaced emphasis. Aside from committing itself to a fifteen thousand dollar debt to the University which undercuts all of Student 

Government's .dealings with the Administration, the Finance Committee has ignored the great thrust of Mr. Krashna's presidential campaign. That is to say, they have ignored the Halls themselves. They have turned down St Ed's and have given the HPC only $3000. 
If Student Government is truly sincere in its committment to improve hall living, and ~f it is really com~itted to changes ~eeper than the superficial ones so far proposed, then~:~:;;:;::::::::;~...;}:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~: 
1t should appropn~te money to the mdividual Hal~ governments. If we are to establish a$ truly personal environment then the way to do so ts not through mere concerts and more!:: dances and more of the high intensity things that so asphyxiates normal relationships:~~ here, but through the relaxed, informal things that are always arranged by the Halls. :-: 
But the most worthwhile project this Student Government could undertake is a project 
to serve the students. 
It has not been done by Student Governments for some time, if, indeed, it ever has been done. There will not be many more opportunities for Student Governments to do it, for soon apathy and despair will be sufficient to counterract the empty sloganeering we hear every March. 
The Observer then mvoes that the Student Senate invest a significant amount of money in a special fund to be jointly aJministered by the Senate and the Hall Presidents council and designed to help each hall make it a little easier for the people who have to live here. 
Guy De5CJI)io:=:=:=:::=:~=:::::=:=:::::::::=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=========:::=:=:=:=:.=:=:=:=::::::::::~~;;=:=:::::::~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::====:=========:=====:==========::::::: 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*~~~~~*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~»~~~8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
No doubt there was more than one passing snic-enough to bomb, burn and kill. Yet for few people 
ker of expression of self-righteous outrage at Bishop Pursley's letter comment1"ng on T1. Grace 
· 
Atkinson's speech, The Observer's abortion ad, 
and the role of Notre Dame as "defender of the faith." It didn't take much to feel the "ah, come off it's" ripple through the Stadium Saturday when Don Miller talked about the role God and 
the university played in his life. 
The snickers are regrettable and the outrage displays a basic insensitivity on the part of members of the academic community to the beliefs and emotion of sincere and honest people to whom the Catholic faith and the Blessed Mother are living realities. 
There is a tendency on the part of the intellectual to objectigy everything -to classify the deepest beliefs of men in terms of myth, 
does politks become the center of their life and of h
t eir very being. For some reason angry politicalsentim'ents are more acceptable then th~ outrage~ 
f ' 
o people to whom faith means very much more.
To many people the Blessed Mother and the C hurch are more than a part af life -they are the basis for living. After all Father Sorin did name this place after our Lady because he sincerely believed that she somehow helped him out when he needed it. A 
man like Father Hesburgh, who wines and dines with Presidents, Kings, and corporation heads, actually believes that he gets a "little extra special" help once in a while from the Lady and her Son in running a university dedicated to a woman who as a Mother contributed much to 
sociological background, and psychological make-mankind. This from a man respected for his up. After you think solely in those terms for long involvement in the real world; who as Head of the enough it becomes hard to "understand" how US Civil Rights Commission carries enough clout people can become outraged when Ti Grace so that the political counsels of the President ask Atkinson derides the character of the Blessed. him to keep his mouth shut just before elections Mother on a campus that was founded under her to avoid real world political implications. guidance. This doesn't mean that you have to buy all 
It is hard to understand in our secularized minds those sentiments. But must there be so much how an elderly grandmother can "really believe" shock, surprise, and outrage when people talk the the Blessed Mother will somehow help if she about Notre. Dame as a "special place?" This does spends some time with her each day by saying the not necessanly ,mean_ eitl:er t_hat people who feel Rosary. Just because the woman believes in Mary that our Lady~ Umvers1ty 1s something special as the epitome of womanhood motherhood and ought to attack It and alot of good people here for 
actually believes that by "talking with her'', she the act of one misguided oerson. For if they really can tangibly change her life why should that same und~rstood (he .depth of the message that this place grandmother be enraged at Notre Dame for letting carnes, they might realize that the Blessed Mower a speaker talk about all those things in terms more probably felt less outrage and shock at Ti Grace's 
fitting a prostitute than the lady's "truest friend" remarks then most of them did. She understands and the Mother of God. After all, in that her as she probably really understands all of us. grandmother's eyes Notre Dame is a place that Would that we could really understand each eXists as a living monument to the fact that all ?ther as much. One step would be to drop the those beliefs are very real. mtellectual facade that must rebel every time 
Have you ever really believed that Spiro Agnew Pope, Bisl~op , ~r layman speaks out as though he doesn't deserve to be Vice-President of the United truly believes m his faith as a living reality. States because of his attacks on men whom you Understand Bishop Pursely even if you can't agree consider to be determined and honest people who with him. Ask the Blessed Mother what she thinks can change this country's direction? Can you abput it all next time you sneak down to the 
Bill Cc::wfer oftd JOJin Knorr :~:~ 
· ::;: 
~~ 
freely Speolcing :::: 
(This column is a reply to Bishop Leo Pursley's letter which the Observer reprinted from Our Sunday Visitor. Opinions here reflect only those of John Knorr, Executive Editor, and Bill Cllrter, Managing Editor, and not those of the Observer as a whole.) 
It is easy to see how Bishop Pursley might well be shocked by 
what Ti Grase Atkinson said concerning Holy Mother Church. It is 
also understandable that he might be upset as to how she expressed 
herself. However, it is questionable as to why he is upset that it 
happened at Notre Dame. If this had occured at IUSB or at Purdue 
would the Bishop have bothered to take the time and trouble t~ 
express himself as he did? Probably not. Does he really believe that 
ND as a Catholic institution of higher learning has a sacred 
obligation to shelter the minds of its inhabitants from such a 
"scurrilous attack upon the Catholic Church and a blasphemous 
insult to the Mother of Jesus Christ?" If ND is to be truly an 
institution of higher learning then its students have a right and the 
Un~. an obligation ~ expose all ~ ~w~ pcrtinent ~ 01rr 
contemporary culture. Academic freedom should not be relegated t non-sectarian institutions. Bishop Pursley went on to state that he felt "Whatever 
explanation of this kind of performance may be offered, there can 
be no adequate excuse for it." We don't feel that this is a situation 
that calls for making excuses. A newspapers' function is to cover the 
news, all the news, regardless of what is said, how it is said, and 
where it is said. We did not invite Ti Grace to Notre Dame. Our onlv 
crime seems to lie in what we feel was accurate and justifiabl~ 
reporting of a controversial lecture. It does no good to attack an 
institution that reports on happenings in a community. Should the 
New York Times "be blamed because they report on the burning of 
an Amencan flag, or the passing of abortion legislation'?. Of course not. Those who the Bishop should harangue, if he feels that he must harangue someone, are those like Ti Grace who start the controversial ball rolling. Evidently Bishop Pursley feels that we should be the' target· for the sole reason that we are the voice of a Catholic University and as such should have no business reporting on people such as Ti Grace. 
Bishop Pursley ended his letter with the statement,"But there is a point beyond which tolerance cannot go if it must leave conscience behind. "It wasn't in our respect, a matter of tolerance. It was however, definitely a matter of conscience. It seems absurd that an institution such as the Catholic Church, which espouses as a fundamental principle the existence of free will and therefore freedom of choice should be that same institution which is quickest to condemn an issue which forces free will into operation. We feel that people had the right (and surely the Catholic background) to object to what was said, just as they most certainly had the right to hear her talk in the first place. We covered the story because not all attended the lecture, but yet all had the right to know what was said. · 
In conclusion, we do not want to see The Observer descend to the level of Our Sunday Visitor. We are attempting to introduce journalistic integrity into our behavior. As such, this integrity can have none of the narrow minded legislating of morality which the Visitor exhibits and espouses. Perhaps this is because we are not forced to adhere to party line without some rational thinking on our part. We love Our Lady and what NJtre Dame stands for as much as Bishop Pursley, or we wouldn't have remained here to graduate. However, we feel that one thing we have learned is freedom of speech and more importantly freedom of personal choice. Because of this, and as long as we are in a position to report and edit the news, it will be done open mindedly and with the only goal being th.at of "Serving the Notre Dame and St. Mary's Community.'' 
understand then Senators Kennedy, Muskie, Grotto the night before an exam. ~IX)OCIOCM:M~OCCICIOC»>CM:M~CCliOCM:M~OCoCioc:IOI~OCICICtOc:IOI)OI=c"' McGovern, et. al., when they , in the manner of a,------------------------...,------------------------. 
Bishop Pursley, express outrage  at  the  man  for  
using tile prestige of his office to make such statements? Can you understand then, without laughing at "attitudes out of the Middle Ages",  Observer E::ditorials are a reflec­tion of the majority opinion of the editorial board. The editorials are not necessarily written exclu­ 0 bserver Editorial Board: Glenn Corso, Ed Ellis, T.C. Treanor, Dave Bach, Dave Lam­mers, Bill Carter, Jim Graif, and  Night Editor: Don 'Brown Man' Ruane Layout: Myst 'Hook 'Em Horns' Abell Headlines: Tim 'luwuh' Burke  
when Bishop Pursley questions Notre Dame letting  sively by the Editorial Page Edi­ John Knorr.  Controller of the Night:  Rick 'Who Cares' Smith  
Ti  Grace speak  here'? Politics stimulates alot  of  tor.  

fucling ~d em~om-pw~e ~m~~~Y~----------------~-------L--------------------~ 

Bishop Parsley's lament 
That spicy sage of the midwestern ec­clesiastical hierarchy, Bishop Leo Parsley, had been in a quandary all week. "Those hippy -freak-radical-subversive-Com­munists-atheists" like noted campus con­servative Glen Corso were at it again. The bishop was carefully considering the several courses of action open to him in seeking reparation for the tarnished honor of the Virgin Mary. As the Very 
Right Keverend pored over his Pocket Aquinas his personal secretary, Charle­magne Ableheart entered, a concerned look on his visage. 
"What do you think, Bish?" queried 
Br. Ableheart. 
"Well flock this is indeed a black mo­
ment i~ the ' history of the Catholic 
Church in this Mid-west Wilderness. Not 
since the days of Martin Luther Ring has 
the Holy Mother been in such poor es­
tate." 
"Indeed." 
"The Moratorium last year was very 
bad indeed, and the presence of that de­
ranged priest Fr. Hesburgh in heathen Is­
rael was worse yet, but this is the very 
last straw. The Observer must die, or the 
Faith of millions will be corrupted." 
"But what can be done, 0 Holy Bish? 
By the way, may I kiss your ring; my 
eternal bank book shows I'm 386'h days 
in debt. If I kiss you ring I get a deposit 
of 300 days, right?" 
"Right you are, faithful flock. Make 
out a deposit slip. I'll send it on up at 
Vespers." 
"Thanks be to God, sire, a few months 
I can take, but never 300 days. My 
moustache would frizzle fearfully." 
"On to Notre Dame! The editor of that 
rag should be crucified; the advertising 
director burnt at the stake; the news edi­
tor drawn and quartered; and the infidel 
dog who wrote that disgraceful piece of 
pornographic inaccuracy should be cas­trated and made to sing soprano in the South Bend Cathedral Choir, a good, clean group dedicated to the serv\ce of the Lord-J esus-Christ-Almigh ty-Our-Hea­ve n I y-Father-Who-Loves-All-Men-
Except-Those-Pro-Test-Ants-At-The-Ob­
server!" 
"Well spoken, Bish,"returned the secre­
tary. 
After several moments of silence, du­
ring which Br. Ableheart said three rosa­
ries and 794 ejaculations, thus wiping out 
his eternal debt, Bishop Parsley finished 
with the deposit slips, and spoke: 
"I nave got :it. We will do it!" 
"Do what?" 
"[t., 
"What's it'?" 
"ft." 
"Oh, No; rtot it? Is it necessary to go 
that far?" , 
"Yes, it's the only thing to do." 
Together, the two holy men gasped. 
"THE UNHOLY GHOST" 
The UNHdLY GHOST, as fans of that 
Badin Hall duty T.C.Treanor are wont to 
point out, ini!J.abits Washington Hall, one 
of the older, more decreput, and thus 
spookier University buildings. He has in­
forned this t1eporter that most rumors 
concerning his origins have in them not 
even the ghost of reality. He is not 
George Gipp; rather, he was killed by the 
horny Gipper as he tried to preven the 
raping of thr~e elderly nuns and two Uni­
versity chaplains during a performance of 
the high Angl!can play, "Advise and Con-· 
sent," shown in 1925 by the Student 
Union Acaderpic Commission. Astute ob­
servers of the! obvious will note that even 
then, SUAC was a cause of moral degrad­
ation and intellectual hibernation on cam­
pus. "Do you ~emember the last time we called for th~ UNHOLY GHOST, Reve­
• Humor, 8 0II··,·cs. and rJoauers~;~~~~nfw~x~~~~~~:; :hi~~;;r,a~~~hr~f
lfli & r 1nr which I found pretty enjoyable, "who
1
Tu-• 
Tile San F,anc'sco ,.lme Troupe 
UNDERGROUND PRESS RELEASE parture from cenventional (read:"dull") 
The San Francisco Mime Troupe, a theater, doing free shows outdoors for or-' people's theater, is coming to O'Laughlin dinary people,:has, through a series of po­Aud. on Nov. I 0 at 8:30 p.m. as part of litical confrontations and study, become their month-long tour of the Midwest. sort of a cultural demolition, working to This year the Troupe is presenting THE widen the cracks in the Hollywood/Ma­INDEPENDENT FEMALE OR A MAN dison Ave. metlia myth. Like Abbie Hoff­HAS HIS PRIDE, a melodrama on wo-man, the Mime Troupe deals in the truths men's liberation; SEIZE THE TIME, an that are really obscene and therefore for­adaptation of Bobby Seale's story of the bidden in American (coming soon over Black Panther Party; and assorted short the tickertapes-"do-you-own-thing" bill­pieces of guerrilla theater. If you don't board refused but Ehrlich admitted to In­remember them from tP,eir visits in '67 dia on American good will mission): that and '68, or know of their work by other for most people the violent chaos of revo­means, some introduction to this unique lution is preferable to even one more year company might induce you to make it to of bullshit and appression. The Troupe's their performances. is the. mes~age of Marxism; it is right to 
First of all, they are neither white-faces rebel. But Ill cpntrast to the anarchy and artistes or long-haired wonders spreading individualism of Hoffman, the Mime the avaricious herbs of Michael Butler. Troupe tends more toward disciplined Later for that. The Mime Troupe comes collectivism, and the members of the closer to a thriving band of political Troupe responsible for all means of clowns. What started out as a radical de-survival, froJ!l booking and PR to truck 

Gloria Pehnybank, played by Joan Markir is striken with disbelief when her fiancee John Geartright, played by Randy Craig, brings the Qonflict between love and liberation to a harsh ultimatum in the San Francisco Mime Troupe's melodrama 
"The Independent Female." I rend?" asked the Bishop's secretary, re­calling his sober but well-meaning leader from plights of fancy. 
"Yes, indeed, Flock. As I recall, 'twas in November of '69. The students of the University of Our Holy Lady were be­coming quite anti-clerical. Our representa­tives at the campus informed us that they actually hated the clergy. I called the UN­HOLY GHOST to redress our wrongs and avenge the Lord-Jesus-Christ-A­lmigh ts-God,etc. ,etc." 
"Amen, Your Emminence, I remember well the shock on the faces of the heath­en criminals when the UNHOLY GHOST­moved the football poal posts back 6 inches so Scott Hempel's field goal weould end up short in the USC game last 
year." 
"Yes, Brother," said the holy Bishop, "the UNHOLY ONE has indeed been good to us in South Bend, I hope he can handle this case" 
The bishop, much relieved by his final decision to call upon the UNHOLY GHOST, also much relieved because he had just sttopped at the men's room, pre­pared to petition the spirit in question. According to precedent, a package con­
taining three dead sea horses, six match­books, two partially smoked joints, two labels from Budweiser quarts, and four 
semi-dirested whole wheat hosts (to prove the religious Catholic nature of the re­quest) must be placed in the lobby of Washington Hall at exactly 40 minutes and twelve seconds after 3 A.M. At this hour the ghost was sure to be in his office ready to hear complaints. 
As the good bishop Parsley prepared 
his gifts for the spirit, the gentlemen of 
the Observer on the campus of the Uni­
versity of Notre Dame went about their 
work, totally unaware that their masculi­
nity and indeed their very lives were in 
mortal danger. 
maintenance, themselves. 
The Mime Troupe likes to play to col­lege audiences, talking about the Third World War that most college professors will tell you isn't going on. Their message to college students: "We (white Ameri­cans) have met the enemy and they is us. Anyone with brains and guts should drop out of college right now, before you start beileving the establishment lie. The po­wers that be don't want leaders and they don't want people who want to find out the truth about things. They want schmucks who will do what they are told and not ask embarassing questions." 
As the_ midwest trip begins, the Mime 
Troupe has just finished its 1Oth success­ful summer season in the parks of the San Francisco Bay Area, doing THE INDEPENDENT FEMALE' gutter pup­pets, and a set of children's puppet shows. In the parks the shows are free 
with a collectiong taken afterward. The premiere of the Women's lib show at­tracted a record audience of 1200 scream­ing supporters-about an equal number of men and women. The show is in the stype of a classic American melodrama with a revolutionary turn-around ending. 
The final now is being mounted expec­ial~y for this tour. It is called SEFE THE TIME and is roughly based on Bob­by Seale's history of the Black Panther Party. It deals with who the Panthers real­ly are as opposed to what the press de­cides them to be. There is also a Mime Troupe Rock Band rehearsing now which be ready for gigs on this tour. It repre­sents an effort to counter the cultural rip off nature of Rock Industry. 
The Troupe is being sponsored by Con­temporary Arts Festival and SUAC and their schedule is the following: Tickets for the big show are available at the door and the S U ticket office Admission $2.00; CAF patrons free. 
But can it even happen? Will it ever happen? Will the medieval designs of Bishop Leo Parsley end in the subjugation of the Observer to the common clergy? To the common cold? Will Glen Corso noted campus cnnservative and editor-in_: chief of the rag be crucified like his mas­ter? Will the ad manager find the fires of the eternal debtor's prison before his time? Will the News Editor (ulp!) be drawn and quartered by the UNHOLY GHOST for his anticlericism in reporting the truth as it happened And will the simple reporter L. Emmet Ballantine become a toolless tool in the evil bishop's plan to Catholicize the nether regions of South Bend? And will the resident Doc­tor of Sophistry T.C. Treanor be forced to recognize the existence of a bing high­er than himself? 
Who knows? 
Who cares? 
Mike Lenehan 

~thing lacking 
Sergio Mendes always wanted to be a 
great pianist-perhaps a great lover. Sergio 
Mendes in the middle of the stage with a 
big spotlight on him, flanked by the beau­
tiful, sensually writhing vestal virgins and 
backed by a straight line of percussive 
psych. The blonde sings "something in 
the way he moves" and we swoon at the 
undeniable assertion of Latin sexuality. I 
don't think it works, and once I read 
somewhere (really , not like your usual 
"once I read somewhere") that they can't 
stand him in Brazil. 
The concert was a very slick and rather 
you gonna pan this week?", so there I am in section 10-1-c, seat 5, trying to find something nice to write in my little brown-leather samole notebook with 
''your name imprinted h'!re" on the front "A good time was had by all", but, no, God, that's not it. 
But what is it?, as they strike up with "For What It's Worth". Somebody's a­gainst me. Sergio Mendes (who I never like too much anyway) doing a Stephen (I dream about you at night) Stills song, and all after a long night of trying to play music over the headline of a T.C. Treanor article. (You have to cut the music just before he starts the first sentence.) 
Confusion. Agony. What's wrong here? But then, thank God, the vision. A long­haired blonde, resplendent in velvet polka dots, smiling and wriggling just a hint of "want some?" giving forth with an ''every­body look what's goin' down, scooby-do­waa", as Johnny Carson leans back in his chair, claps approvingly, turns to Ed and says, "boy, she's good, and now let's break for a word from .... " 
Aha! And there it is! It's the old form­content dichotomy with a latin beat! Give them what they think is some real Brazilian music-dark complexion and three of four percussinists should do the trick. Let loose with a few soulful raps about "let's all get together" and tell therr how you want to communicate with them through YO,llf "sound". Be careful, though. Make sure you say "sound" and not "music"-you don't want to lie. And make sure that you use tunes that they already know, so it'll be as easy for them 
to separate the sound from the music as it was for you. It's really pretty easy: talk about the good vibes and invite them to 
dance, but don't let them get too close. Don't let them see the wall of ego in front of the stage and don't let them see that you've taken the sound out of the songs and left the music strewn on the floor under your piano. It's really pretty easy, just don't let them get too close. 
But then, there's not much danger of that, is there? 
THR O&rERfJER. 
MONDAY,_ NOVEMBER. 9, 1970
PAGE 6 
Wolverines shutout Irish frosh, 20-0 
by_ ~!c_ Dorr coming with but 11 seconds left Observer Sportswriter in the game. 
Whtm Bo Schembechler called The Wolverines, who simply his current crop of freshman refused to be held long in check, ballplayers the "best we've had threatened repeatedly during the in two years here," he was pay-first two periods. But a pair of ing them a high comliment. The fumble recoveries by defensive Michigan yearlings proved Fri-end George Hayduk and a pair day, at Notre Dame's expense, of interceptions by defensive that Schembechler's confidence back Mike Townsend blunted as was indeed justified. The Wol--many Miehlgarr· ·a·nves.---'fow­verines thumped the Irish frosh send's second theft of the game 20-0, and in the process ad-left the Irish with excellent field vanced their own seasonal record position at the Wolverine 26. to 2-0. Notre Dame was unable to gain 
After a scoreless-and statis-ground against Michigan's de­tically even-first half, the Wol-fense, however, and Cliff Brown verine offense exploded for narrowly missed on a 44 yard three second half scores, the last field goal attempt. Brown's er­
rant kick, as it turned out, was 
the only Irish scoring gesture of
Driven Needed 
the afternoon. Drive-aways available Late in the third quarter, to any city in U.S. the Wolverines mounted their 
first scoring thrust. Following a ""==P=h=o=n=e=·-==2=3::;;4:::::;-0;:::;0::2::::1=::__:3.::.0_:y~a:_:r_:d~p::as:s_;fr.:::o:m~q:_:::u::a~rt:_:e~rb7.a~c:,k
r ­
H•••w•rd ..... 
STUDENT UNION'S 
to O'HARE
Bus SALES 

Leaves: Tues. Nov. 24 ND Circle at 4:30 p.m. 
Wed. Nov. 25 ND Circle at 1:00 p.m. 
Returns: Sun. Nov. 29 from O'Hare (U11ited's 
ground floor terminal 
at 8:00 & 10:00 pm. 
Buses leave SMC Holy Cross Hall 15 minutes later. 
$5.00 ONE-WAY Sales at 1st Bank Travel Bureau (on campus in the ground floor of Badin Hall) 9:00--12:00, l:00-=4:30 -Daily 
ALL SALES HNAL 

PLUS 

a 
~lTS A TIVOl.t PRODUCTION RELEASED BY CLOVER FILMS. PAMF OF AGE REQUIRED 
Tom Slade to 6-6 tight end Paul in 15 tries, and Gary Diminick, picked up positive yardage. Seal, Michigan moved to the with 30 yards in 12 attempts, By virtue of this victory, the Irish two yard line. Bob Thorn-led the Irish rushers. Notre Wolverines are assured of a win­blad scored from there and Dame was able to gain only 72 ning season. Notre Dame, on the. .f>avid Brartden's..dick.-41~ it yards on the ground, while other hand, finihsed their com­7-0. Midway through the final Michigan rolled up 232 yards petition with a 1-2 mark, these-period, Wolverine linebacker rushing. cond such record in two years. Richard Mussehl intercepted So completely did Michigan But, although the Irish freshmen Brown at the Notre Dame 43. dominate the last period of play, have played through their 1970 Making full use of this break, that the Wolverines ran nearly schedule, they will continue to Michigan rolled to another three offensive plays for every perform in the primary rol~ of' touchdown. Ed Shuttlesworth one attempted by the Irish. preparing the varsity team for its capped the drive by scoring from Netry-Dame.--ne-vet-~d---be=' remaining games. the two, bu-t this ..time &randon yond midfield in the second Despite the record in actu,al missed on his conversion at-half, and ' in fact, only regis-competition, the results of this tempt. tered one second half first down. freshman season will not be seen 
In the closing minutes of the And in the fourth quarter, the until Spring, when Denny Mur­game, Michigan again got good ND offense .ran only one play-phy's players will assume their field position when a short Irish the last one of the game-which ·places on the vanity squad. 
punt gave them possession on the Notre Dame 38. Kevin Casey, one of the three Wol­verine signal-callers to see action, kept one eye on the clock as he 
directed the Michigan freshmen to their final score of the day.
The touchdown, a nine yard pass 
to running back Craig Mutch, came with 0: 11 remaining in the game. Brandon followed with 
the kick which made it 20-0. It was just one of those daysfor the Notre Dame offense. Cliff Brown, whose passing against Michigan State and Tenn­essee had been so effective, com­pleted only seven out of 27 at­tempts for 40 yards. The Irish running game did not fare much better. Greg Hill, with 52 yards 
University School of law -is scheduling interviews for prospec­tive students on Wednesday, November 11, in Room 205 Busi· ness Building. Sign up for appointment outside Room 101 

Denny AJJan buJJs his way from the three yard line for the first ND touchdown against Pitt. This was Allan's sixth scoring jaunt of the season. 

Applications now being accepted for student mem-­
Baseball meeting
bership on University Academic Council. All men who participated in FALL BASEBALL WORK­Submit name and statement of purpose to student 
OUTS are asked to attend a 
meeting Monday afternoon at
chairman c/o appropriate Dean's office. 
4:00 p.m. The meeting will be 
held in the Convocation Center Arts & Letters -Ed McCartin 
Auditorium (main concourse be­Business -Robert Bramlette 
tween basketball and football Engineering­Robert Jenson 
coaches offices). Only those in­Science -Thomas Kenny 
volved in fall workouts are asked to attend. 
Bandito Baits 
Bandito! A he-man collection of belts you've just gotta get into. Wide and wild. Leathers and suedes with the ruggedest hardware around Lots of it. Belts, from $6. Matching watchstraps, from $5. Catch a Salvatori Bandito. If you can. 
At line stores everywhere or write: 
PAGE
THE OBSERVER
MONDAY, NOVEMI;IER 9, 1970 
Pitt falls to (T)Heisman(rl'l effort 
by Terry Sitields 
one of his greatest days at Notre star qb "As you know, we like 30 yard toss to Denny Ferris fol­much Irish strength for the game Observer Sports Editor Dame his performance and that to let his performance speak for lowed by a six yard pitch to ran­Panthers. The Irish had numer­George Gipp, Terry Hanratty, of all his teammates was not himself in regards to the Heis­gy Bill Pilconis. ous drives in the third quartertwo names that have come to be exactly up to the standards that man Trophy. His performance The next time the Irish got but scored only once. This camerecognized more as myth than Coach Ara Parseghian requires, today spoke quite eloquently." the ball they gave it away on a on a 78 yard pass-run combina­real people to Notre Dame fans namely perfection. Joe was Aside from Joe's record shat­fumble by Tom Gatewood after tion from Joe T. to tight endwill now have to take backseats intercepted twice, completed tering performance the real topic receiving another pass. Hogan Mike Creaney. One reporterin the record books to a skinny "only" 13 of 24 passes. and even of discussion had to be the Pitt took the inspired Panthers 35 stated after the game thatkid from New Jersey who put on underthrew his mark a few Panthers' fine first half showing. yards to pay dirt. Penalties for "Creaney's power after he madesuch a performance last Satur­times. Why should Joe win so They were only the second team holding and interference were the catch reminded him of Leonday against a stubborn Pitts­much acclamation then? Well, all that has been able to head the the big ground gainers for Pitt as Hart." Little wonder why, as theburgh team that he broke both's he did was pass for 284 yards Irish this season. They did this in Esposito dove for the score from huge soph broke one sure tacklelegendary records for Total Per­and added 97 more' on the the second quarter after NO had the one yard stripe. almost immediately after beingformance and Total Offense. 
ground in just eight carries. That built a 13-0 margin. John Hogan, Theismann then did what a hit and then shrugged off Pitt's
The newest of the many NO comes out to 381 yards total a bright looking sophomore, re­great quarterback has to do and J.D. Lewis on the Pitt 20 as he 
supermen is, of course, Joe offense, not really what you'd placed Dave Havern and he con­that is bring his team right back cruised over the goal line. 
Theismann. He led the Irish to a call a bad day. nected on one touchdown pass into the lead quickly, before the In the fourth quarter Theis­46-14 victory over the Panthers. 
After the game Ara said of his and then guided the Panthers to game plan is altered too much. mann completed his days workEven though Theismann had another with the aid of an Irish by leading one last drive. He was
Joe took the Irish 80 yards for replaced by Pat Steenberge withfumble and two penalties, one the score. Joe would be the first 
passinterference which the NO in possession on the Pitt 13.
set to admit that the payoff pass to ball at the one yard line and en­Denny Allan was not the Cieszkowski blasted over from abled rugged Tony Esposito to greatest throw he ever made. the two to make the score ND dive for the TO. The play, covering 46 yards, was 39, Pitt 14. Pitt held the mighty Irish to a a freak one in which Bill Ramos "Cisco" scored once more with only 25 seconds remaining
single touchdown in the first had the ball in his hands but it 
quarter. Theismann hit Tom after Jim O'Malley intercepted
bounced in the air and the alert and gave the second team the
Gatewood(one of his nine grabs) Allan plucked it off and rambled in the opening drive for 17 from around the twenty into the ball on the 23. Big John scored 
yards. This, combined with so~ end zone. 
on a one yard plunge to finalize power running by Denny Allan, The next series of downs was the score at 46-14. Bill Barz and Ed Gulyas, led to what Pitt Coach Carl DePasqua Carl DePasqua paid tribute to the first Notre Dame score. referred to as the turning point the Irish after the game._ "We Allan smashed over left tackle of the game. Pitt fumbled and viewed Notre Dame as the Num­
from the three to mark up the the IIish recovered. A dispute ber One team regardless of what first six points. erupted on the Pitt side because the polls said. This game gave me Another Theismann to Gate­the Panthers felt that the play no reason to change my mind. wood job was the big play of the was blown dead before the We were psychologically ready second drive. The Irish drove 60 1 fumble occurred. After the re­for them, but that line just yards in nine plays with Barz covery, Theismann wasted no blows people right out." The capping the drive from three time as he hit Gulyas on a play line blew enough people out to 
yards out. action pass. Gulyas was gain 606 yards. 
Pitt's Dave Garnett took the frighteningly alone near the thir­As for Joe Theismann, well ensuing kickoff all the way to ty as a Pitt man missed his as­DePasqua was impressed enough ND's 44 and Hogan entered for signment. Gulyas WQn the foot­to say that "he's the best I've the first time and immediately race to the end zone. seen in a long, long time and engineered a scoring drive on a The second half proved to be that takes in I 7 years of 
too much Thcismann and too coaching."
Statistics-move over Glpper 
TEAM STATISTICS UP ND Steenberge 2 0 0 0 0 First Downs Rushing 3 14 Yodet 1 0 0 0 0 First Downs Passing 8 10 First Downs by Penalty 2 2 
RECEIVING NO YDS TD
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 13 26 Gatewood 9 116 0
Number Attempts Rushing 39 61 
Greaney 2 79 1
Yards Gained Rushing 125 329 Allan 1 54
Yards Lost Rushing 18 7 Gulyas 1 35
NET YARDS RUSHING 107 322 Number Passes Attempted 36 27 PUNTING NO AVG Number Passes Completed 17 13 Yoder 4 46 Number Passes had lnterceptedq 2 2 NET YARDS PASSING 149 284 
YDS
Number Plays Total 75 88 PUNT RETURNS NO TOTAL OFFENSE 256 606 Crotty 2 12 Number Interceptions 2 2 Ellis 2 10 Yards Interceptions Returned 19 25 Number Times Punted 7 4 Number Punts had Blocked 0 0 KICKOFF RETURNS NO YDS PUNTING AVERAGE 35 46 Parke~ 2 38 Number Punts Returned 1 
4 NET YARDS PUNTS RT'D. 3 
'l2 Number Kickoffs Returned 8 
2 PITT Yards Kickoffs Returned 137 38 
RUSHING ATT YDS TD Number Times Penalized 6 4 Havem 4
3 0 TOTAL YARDS PENALIZED 56 33 Esposi~o 24 91 1 Number Times Fumbled 2 1 Ferris 9 22 
0 NUMBER FUMBLES LOST 2 1 Spicko 1 -7 0 Hogan 2 -3 0 NOTRE DAME 7 18 6 15 46 PITT 0 14 0 0 14 PASSING ATT COMP INT YDS TD SCORING 2 97 1
Hogan 23 11 ND: Allan 3 run, Hempel kick Haverll 13 6 0 52 0 ND; Barz 3 run, kick failed PITT: Pilconis 5 pass from Hogan, Spicko kick 
RECEIVING NO YDS TD
PITT: Esposito 1 run, Spicko kick TilND: Allan 54 pass from Theismann, p<:.Ss failed Pilconis 6 39 1ND: Gulyas 35 pass from Theismann, run failed Moyer 5 50 0ND: Greaney 78 pass from Theismann, pass failed Klimek 3 25 0ND: Cieszkowski 2 run, Dewan run Ferris 2 32 0ND: Cieszkowski 1 run, Smith kick 
Moss 1 3 0 
NOTRE DAME RUSHING ATT YDS TD 
PUNTI~G NO AVG Theismann 8 97 0 
Spicko 7 35 Allan 14 41 1 Barz 12 52 1 Gulyas 10 58 0 
PUNT RETURNS NO YDS 
Dewan 3 20 0 
Salter 1 3 
Cieszkowski 7 20 2 Minnix 3 11 0 Parker 2 23 0 
KICKOFF RETURNS NO YDS 
Steenberge 2 0 0 
Salter 2 44 
Garnett 3 55 PASSING ATT COMP INT YDS TD Parros 2 30 Theismann 24 13 2 284 3 Carroll 1 18 


PAGE 8 MONDAY. NOVEMRFR 9. 1970
THE O&S'ERI1Eil 
,.llellel Without A Cause" 
Coffeehouse: eHort in 
'geHing to know others'
Starring Natalie Wood & Sal Mineo 
7:30 & 9:30 Eng. $1.00 Admission  Auditorium  Monday, Nov. 9  What the ND-SMC Com­munity really needs is a "total effort by both schools in getting  
to know each other." According  
to  Social  Commission  Public  

Realtions Director Matt Kubik. In an effort to facilitate this
PA FIC GAS 
process the Social Commission 
has set up a Coffeehouse in the Rathskellar Lounge in the base­ment of LaFortune Student Cen­ter. 
Kubik said that the great FRIDAY, NOV 13 
& ELECTRIC 
social problem at Notre Dame is the lack of a place to meet people and a place for interact­
8:30 pm 
Stepan Center 
ion since NO and SMC students
Tickets: $2.50 
don't eat together and have few at Student 
classes together. "If the people Union Ticket 
in the ND-SMC Community are Office 
really sincere about wanting to meet· people, especially the girls from St. Mary's, then we are providing the Rathskellar as a 
presented by 
' 
place to mix", related Kubik. 
Student Union Social Commission 
~~--~~~~~--~~~~~~~ 

*Student Billing Card 
With this card, a dorm resi­
dent may make long distance calls 
with the privacy of the dorm room 
phone and get an individual bill 
once a month. 
And even take advantage of 
Direct Distance Dialing . . . the 
faster, easier way to call long 
distance. 
Your Student Billing Card 
is waiting (if you haven't already 
picked it up) at the Indiana Bell 
Business Office. Just ask. 
@ Indiana Bell 
The Coffeehouse is now open from noon to midnight Monday through Thursday. The Social Commission hopes first to ex­
pand these ho-urs to inclu-de 
Friday and Saturday and 
eventually to be open from 9 
am. to midnight Monday night 
through Saturday night. 
According to Kubik and Joe Prochaska, a member of the Social ComMission Special Pro­jects Committee, the entire project depends on the reaction of the students. Such things as decorations, activities, and the future of the Coffeehouse are up to the student body. 
The sponsors feel that with the start they have, expansion is unlimited. The only problem is that not enough people are a­ware of the coffeehouse's exist­ence. It is hoped that the stu­dents will realize that this is a new direction in solving the age-old problem of getting ND-SMC people together and that the idea will catch on. 
Volunteers are needed to keep the coffee pot filled. The Coffee­house will be open as long as 
there are volunteers. Anyone wishing to help out is invited to call Joe Prochaska at 1743 or sign up in the Rathskellar 
Lauer elected president of SMC frosh class 
Nan Lauer, chosen president of the SMC freshman class in last Friday's election, outlined the objectives of her administration for the year in a nine-point pro­gram yesterday, following the announcement of the election results. 
Clarification of each class officer's influence and power was first on Miss Lauer's list of priorities. A class newsletter, publicizing intercampus activi­ties and giving freshmen exposure to the cultural aspects of Notre Dame and St. Mary's, would supplement regular class meetings, in addition to a publi­cation dealing with academic opportunities and a transporta­tion guide for vacation time, according to Miss Lauer. 
She also sees a need for an improved book co -op, and would like to see her class involved in civic programs such as the Red Cross Bloodmobile. 
Being in favor of revised freshman hours, she intends to work for new policies in this area and for more open house privileges. Plans for "Little Sister Day," a weekend during which freshmen could introduce younger sisters or friends to life on the St. Mary's campus, are also included on Miss Lauer's list. 
Other freshman class officers announced Sunday were: Kathy Hessert, vice-president; Tracy Funke, secretary; and Kathy Hurley, treasurer. Katie and Mary Walsh were also elected as freshman representatives to the
1
.Student Assembly in the election supervised by SMC stu­dent body vice-president Jean Gorman. 
STUDENT UNION CALENDAR 
for the week of Nov. 8 -Nov. 14 
Nov. 8-Sunday 
8:00p.m. Jane Fonda speaks at Stepan Center 
Nov. 9 -Monday 
4:00p.m. Mortimer Adler speaks at Library Auditorium 
7:30, 9:30 -"Rebel Without a Cause" starring James Dean, 
Natalie Wood, and Sal Mineo In an emotional tug of war; at the 
Engineering Auditorium 
7:30 p.m. -Arthur C. Clarke, co-author of "2001: A Space Odyssey• speaks at Washington Hall. 
Nov. 10 -Tuesday 
8:30 p.m. -The San Francisco Mime Troup at O'Laughlin Auditorium performing experlemnts In dance, drama, mime, poetry, and music 
6, 7 p.m.-"In a Dark Time"-Carrol Auditorium (SMC) 
Nov. 11 -Wednesday 
8:00-American Association of University Women: "United Nations in a Beleagured World"-at Stapleton Lounge, SMC 
Nov. 12 -Thursday 
8:00 p.m. -Erich Heller on "Bertolt Brecht" at the Little Theatre at SMC 
Nov. 13 -Friday 
8:30 -ND-SMC Studio Theatre presents "Thurber a Ia 
Carte" at Little Theatre in Moreau Hall (SMC) 8:00-Pacific Gas and Electric Company at Stepan Center 
November 14-Saturday 
1:30 p.m.-Football-Georgia Tech at N.D. 7:30, 10:00 p.m.-"Bonnie and Clyde• at Washington Hall 8:30p.m.-"Thurber a Ia Carte• at the Little Theatre In Moreau 
Hall (SMC) 8:30p.m.-Bob Hope Show in the A.C.C. 


