

VOL. IV, No. 109 Sc1Ti11g the ..\'otrc l>a111e a11d Saini Man· 's College ('r•n:muni/1' WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 1970 
SLC election plans discussed by Senate 

by Pat Dermody 
ment Secretary.

and corresponding addresses. Senators, Tom Thrasher, Russ planning some course of action, The Student Senate met last 
These forms may be picked up Stone, Pat Weber and AI Giriffri­of which he is unsure, he should Candidate's will be restrictednight to discuss plans for the 
after 6:00 pm today in the da. Senator Weber is also elec­seek the advice of Chairman 
from actively campaigning untilapproaching Student Life 

Student Government office. tion commissioner. The rules Winings, Commissioner Weber, 
noon Friday, April 17, 1970.

Council election. The election must returned the if is
They be to suggested any candidate or contact the Student Govern-
The election will take place atwill he held on Thursday, April office by I I: 00 am Friday, April the noon and evening meals on23, with representatives being 17, 1970. 

April 23, in the individual halls.

chosen from the districts of the Off campus ballotting will runundergraduate student body. A list of candidates will be 
from 9:00a.m. to 7:00p.m. on

The districts will be the south posted inside the Government the same day.
Quad, the north Quad, with the offke one day after nominations Also last night, Senator Edoutlying dorms composing the close. Changes or corrections can Crawford moved to propose athird district. only he made through Mark bill to prohibit the usc of l~a~.:h candidate will he re­Winings, Chairman of the Elec­go-carts on campus, but wasquired to present an official tion Committee. The committee informed by President Krashnanomination petition composed will be composed of Chairman that his proposal should first heof one hundred fiJII signatures Winings, and the four Stay 
placed in committee before a decision could he reached.

Apollo coming back .as 
Following this ~BP Krashna announced that the Consti­tu tiona! Revision Commit tee


Aquarius rockets fire 
will hold an open hearing SPACE ( 'hNTER, llouston earth. Under normal circum­
tonight in the Amphitheater in (l!Pl) stances, the Aqu<Jrius would LaFortune in order that all ideas 
The astronauts fired Apollo h<Jvc been jettisoned before they concerning the future and 13's lunar lander rocket last headed hack to earth. direction of the Student night aiming to put thcmsrlvcs Had it not been for the Government may be aired. The on a precise path tow<Jrd a Aquarius on this trip, however, hearing will be open to the Pacific Ocean splash down the astronauts would have died. Student body and all interested hiday. 1: nginecrs studied data They used the little lunar lander students will be given a chance from the crippled space craft to as a sort of a lifeboat, utilit.ing to express their views. sec how accurate the maneuver it's oxygen and power, after a was. mysterious explosion knocked 
"That was a good burn," out the electrical current abroad ground control told the space their command ship, Odyssey, 
Trustees stall 

llicrs. and spilled part of their life The emergency splashdown giving oxygen. 
Once again yesterday, thearea for the pilots Jaml~S i\. The astronauts faced some Board of Trustees of Notre

Lovell, John l.. Swigert, and potential problems back on Dame did not release its ration­
hed W. Haisc is about (l()() earth. Officials in the splash ale on the future of parietalmiles southeast of Pago Pago in down a rea kept a worried watch 
hours. The announcement,

American Samoa about I pm 
on tropical storm Helen' now The Senate finalized the plans for the SLC election during its 
initially expected last Monday,1\ST l;riday. 

24 7 miles south west of Pago meeting last night. 
April 6, may be released today.

Tension knotted the flight Pago, near the spot the astro­control room at Houston just nauts are to land. before the burn. Flight Dircdor Before firing the rocket blast (;enc K ran/. made the rounds of 
to line themselves up for theM • 
•t 

lhl' crowded room. checking Pacific. Ol·ean splashdown, the 

I norI y 


students get money
each control panel to determine 
space pilots wh1pped around the whether all was "go" for the hack side of the moon and were by Cliff Wintrode Money an applicant would Ryan reported that this yearmaneuver. 
slung back toward earth by the earn from a job while at school seventy-four black students hereThe 4 minute 24 second blast pull of lunar gravity. Notre Dame's first bowl is also included when consider­are receiving financial aid for an was triggered at 9:40 PM, and 

appearance in forty-four years
The United States will request ing funding financial aid for average amount of $2,360 and aduring the tense moments, 
netted the university $210,000
foreign governments to render minority students Ryan said. total of $174,780. He did notground control continued to 
for minority group scholarship
"appropriate assistance" to the have the figures on financial aid
assure the crew: "You're looking He was unable to state a
grants and programs Father
Apollo 13 astronauts if needed, for other minority group
good!" specific number of financial aid
Hcsburgh announced Monday.
the State Department said yes­students.
The pilots used the descent applicants who would be helped
The university grossed
terday.

engine of their Aquarius moon by the $160,000.
$340,000 from the New Year's
The Unites States and 42 More than one hundred
lander to maneuver themselves The turn down rate of appli­
Day Classic, but $130,000 was 
into pOiition for their return to (mntinued on page 6) cants who decline to come here minority students have applied
eaten up by the cost of trans­
for financial aid for next year.

and the amount of money
porting and maintaining the 
Of these at least 90% are blackreceived from the federal govern­

team, coaches, and marching 
students. Puerto-Ricans,

ment are the two variables
band. causing the uncertainty said Mexican-Americans, American
$50,000 of this sum will be 
Indians, and Spanish surnamedRyan.

set aside for salaries of personnel 
students comprise the remaining

connected with the black studies 
applicants.
The $160,000 will be pro·

program, which is scheduled to rated over four years, so
begin next fall. $40,000 will he the critical sum 
Ryan said offers arc made when figuring the number of with the knowledge that m;.llly
Father Joyce hinted Friday 

applicants who can he helped. of the st udcnts contacted will 
that a black studies director has 
The university assumes that a decide not to come to Notre 

been chosen and part of the 
student with no financial help at Dame. $50,000 will go toward his 
all from his parents will need salary. The name of the possible 
$3,150 a year for school. The 
director was not revealed. After the initial group of
student is expected to earn at 
The remaining $160,000 is applicants have been notified of
least an extra $400 during the 
slated for supplementary fund­possible assistance, and told the 
summer. 
ing of financial aid for minority university whether they would students and will be parceled out come, the next group of appli­
Last year the university 
cants will be sent notil·e of

as four year scholarship grants. 
·received $40-$50,000 in 
possible aid. cduc<~tional opportunity grants 
Brother Kiernan Ryan, Chair­of which 75'fr. lwvc to go to The scholarship office had a
man of the Committee on students whose families earn less Financial Aid and Scholarships, than $6,000 a year. general idea of the amount of said yesterday the extra funds This money plus money from 
Cotton Bowl money and they have already sent out financial

will be pooled with monies national defense loans, a possible assistance offers tn st udcnls with
obtained from education oppor­school job, and other sources tunity grants, national defense plus the applicant's own finan­this money in mind. The dead­line d<!te for these applicants is
loans, and other university <.:ial position will determine how 
May I.

F1daer Edmund Joyce funds. far the $160,000 will go. 



PAGE 2 

Snyder gives reading 
environment," focused his
by Dan O'Donnell 
remarks on the ecologicalCon temporary theorist-poet problem; the relation of man to Gary Snyder presented a reading his environment and the need of his latest works before a near f · f ,
or a tota1restructunng o man s capacity audience last night in value system toward it. Snyder Washington Hall, as a part of this characterized the poet as a week's Sophomore Literary "critic in opposition to what we Festival. call civilization and definitely 
Snyder prefaced his readings Christianity, a servant in the by citing the problems of the field of the muse, nature the writer in today's ·society and 
great goddess." 
expressed "dismay at the ml!lti-
A type of sophisticatedtude of things that we cannot impressionism, Snyder's poetryaccept." He pointed out poilu­lacks connections and formaltion and the imprisonment of sentence structures while relying 
political and cultural enemies, including the Chicago 7 and on the flow of language and 
sensory impressions to convey aTimothy Leary as examples of a message steeped in Oriental,
"misplaced sense of values" that have caused "the insanity of particularly Buddhist, traditions. 
His pervasive concern with theWestern civilization." 
family is typical of the JapaneseSnyder, considered an eco­sense of ancestry.
poet due to his concern with" h f h In the first cycle of poems,what he termed t e rape o t e 

• SLF
.. 
"Regarding the Wave", written 
in honor of his wi·fe, Snyder explored various traditions in 
Western civilization which contrasted, most unfavorably, with Oriental culture. 
With his second cycle, "Songs of Clouds and Water", Snyder examined the relation of man to his "mother; the earth goddess." He termed the ecological respon­
sibility "not a heavy one, but a beautiful one." In this cycle, Snyder discussed 
,
the need for "communionism between creatures at every level
fof the "food chain". Speaking o 
this relationship, he said "This is not nature ready tooth and claw; this is the great ceremony., 
This was followed by "Long Hair", a series of works dealing with the necessity of a "revolu­tionary response" to civilization
d ul
on both the political an c ­














.:.:..::::..:...::..:~:::.:.::::S:.::...._....::O~:::p::.!:..:_H:...:...=O--M---0--R--£--S-----, turallevels. snyder preceded this reading with a short discussion of ~·communionism" and revo lutionary tactics.NEW MAJORS IN 
t Concerning violence, he
SOCIOLOGY AND 

stated, "The breaking of window in Santa Barbara or the blowing of thi United States to be the out of a few floors of unoccu­America Turtle Island after an only "true divisions" even

ANTHROPOLOGY 

old Indian legend, saying that he restraint in view of our present pied office buildings shows great today.
considered the primitive division 
Declare your major for Advising-Registratio 

Minnesotan nominated by Nixon
See: Professor Scha 

WASHINGTON (UPJ) -Presi­President "has a great respect for mathematics. as well as working
G-112 Memorial Library 

dent Nixon Tuesday nominated Judge Blackmun 's legal ability as a milktruck driver and janitor. Harry A. Blackmun, a federal and his judicial skill and his Later in his career he taught at THURSDAY April16: 10-12 AM 
appeals judge from Minnesota, judicial temperament. the University of Minnesota law for the Supreme Court seat he "He considers Judge Black­school.
1:30-4:30 PM 

has twice been unable to fill mun a strict constructionist," Blackmun, a Republican and a
FRIDAY April17: 10:30-12 noon 

with Southern nominees. Ziegler said. Methodist, was named as a
1-3 PM 

White House Press Secretary Ziegler said Blackmun was federal judge by President MONDAY April20: 10:30-12 noon 
Ronald L. Ziegler said the selected from a list of six Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1959 1-3 PM 
candidates, all judges. The Presi­with the endorsement of former dent met Friday for about 45 Vice President Hubert H. Hum­
Liberate America 
minutes with Blackmun and phrey.
You must declare your intent to major at this time in 
with 
Attorney General John N. As a member of the 8th U.S.
order to receive information regarding advising and 
Mitchell. Circuit Court of Appeals with
Carol lacey
registration. 
Ziegler said Blackmun had headquarters in St. Paul, Black­
laura Nietsche 
been under consideration earlier mun has been viewed as a
Ellen Zuicker 
when Nixon selected Judges moderate on civil rights and Clement Haynsworth and G. rather tough on criminal cases Harrold Carswell for the Su­involving law and order. preme Court seat left vacant by In 1967, he rejected a Negro the resignation of former Justice couple's complaint against a





Does it hurt 
Abe Fortas. subdivision for refusing to sell The Senate rejected the earlier them a house but was reversed nominations. by the Supreme Court which "The President made his final held that an 1866 civil rights law decision regarding Judge Black­provided for "open housing."
to chill beer twice? 
mun at about I 0 a.m. following Blackmun noted in his de­a review by phone with the cision however that he had Attorney General of relevant leaned toward ruling in the data," Ziegler said. Negro buyers' behalf but said he 
Not that you'd want to. Some­just because the temperature 
Blackmun, a native of Nash­felt a lower court should not 

times it just happens ... like has its ups and downs. 
ville, Ill., grew up in St. Paul, seek to establish such precedent Minn., and has been a friend setting doctrine.
after a picnic, or when you You can understand why 
since boyhood of Chief Justice In the field of criminal law, Warren E. Burger and was best Blackmun was the first appeals
bring home a couple of cold when you consider all the extra 
man at Burger's wedding in judge to uphold the constitu­1933. tionality of the 1961 anti-rack­
6-paks and forget to put 'em trouble and extra expense that 
He helped put himself eteering law. 

in the refrigerator. Does re­go into brewing Bud®. For in­
through Harvard as an under­He also has held that it is notgraduate and then through Har­
chilling goof up the taste or stance, Budweiser is the only 
necessary for the prosecution tovard law school by tutoring in prove criminal intent when the

flatten the flavor? beer in America that's Beech­
Social-Economic Development 

charge involves a light penalty. Employment Opportunities­
He has foavored a flexible rule

Relax. You don't have wood Aged. 
Nationwide directories of posi­
on determining criminal insanity 

tions. All relevent fields. Accur­
and he ruled unconstitutional

to worry. So ... it's absolutely okay 
ate, current, inexpensive. 
the use of a leather strap as a

Information write: Sociocom, 
discil;linary measure in Arkansas 

A really to chill beer twice. 
Box 317, Harvard Square P.O., 
prisons.

Cambridge, Mass. 02138.
Yes?
good beer like Enough said. (Of Budweiser is just course, we have 
N OSTAL

No? 
as good when you chill it a lot more to say 

QUEEN CONTEST 

twice. We're mighty glad about about Budweiser. But we'll that. We'd hate to think of all keep it on ice for now.) 
414 Badin Hall 

our effort going down the drain 

Summar Session at Stanford University
Budweiser. is the King ofBeers. 
22-AUGUST 15, 1970 
FOR FULL DETAILS, WRITE:

(But you know that.) 
OFFICE OF THE SUMMER SESSION STANFORD UNIVERSITY 

ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS • NEWARK • LOS ANGELES • TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS • JACKSONVILU 
STANFORD. CALIFORNIA 94305 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 1970 THE OBSERVER. 
PAGE 3 

St. Mary's room selection process to begin 
by Jeanne Sweeney volved in looking for houses and chose their rooms before the selection of rooms as usual but of room selection." 

The process of selecting a room for the upcoming years begins tonight with the class of '7 I drawing their priority num­bers. The actual selection of the rooms has been postponed until April 23rd when next year's 
seniors  begin  the  choice  of  
rooms.  
With  next  year's large  fresh­ 

man class, a shortage of room space has opened up to seniors the possibility of living off campus. Although the Director of Housing has only received seven requests for living off 
campus with their parents per­mission, Sister Immaculata, the Dean of Students, emphasized that many other girls arc in-soliciting for friends to live with them off campus. 
Since there is still a possi hili ty of having a shortage of rooms if the number of off campus requests do no increase, Sister Immaculata and the Director of Housing have been looking into other possibilities to house the girls. One such possibility is the Convent's Augusta Hall which, if one section were rented, would provide room for thirty-eight girls. But this plan still has not been finalized. It will be con­sidered by the Board of Trustees this weekend. 
A change from last year's room selecting procedure will mainly involve the class of '72. Last year the juniors and seniors 

Norling writes book 
Arc revolutions worth the 
price? What causes national 
character'! Is anything inevit­
able? An attempt to grapple 
with these and other lessons of 
history has produced "Timeless 
Problems," recently published 
hy the University of Notre Dame 
Press. 
Dr. Bernard Norling, associ­ate professor of history, organ­izes his book around six fre­quently-asked questions, and marshals historical examples from ancient Rome to modern cold-war politics in an at tempt to provide general answers. The lone of the book is set by the dedication, a quote from Ladis­las Farago pointing out "History would not be what it is, the record of man's crimes and follies, if logi~: and decency governed its events and great decisions." 
The major issues with ten!a­live conclusions drawn from extensive historical examples, include: 
-"Illusions in History," Chap­ter I considers the myths, philosophies, predictions and doctrines that have shaped the course of more concrete events. In conclusion, Norling suggests I hat the great illusion surround­ing knowledge, science and con­trol over the forces of nature is that they arc an absolute good of some kind; that in them man will find his ethical, psychologi­cal or spiritual salvation. 
"Is Anything Inevitable?" Norling points out that nothing seems so inevitable as an event I hat has already happened-but that the people who participated in the event believed and acted as if several options were open to them, and saw nothing inevitable about the eventual decision. 
-"Force and its Limitations," concludes with the observations "Force is the most important single factor in the shaping of human affairs, but if it is not employed with calcula lion and prudenL"l' if it is not tempered by a dozen intangibles, it can as easily damage, discredit, even destroy its user as those against whom it is used." 
-"Are Revolutions Worth Their Price?" Admitting that revolutions are often fought against oppressive wrongs, Nor­ling still concludes that the prh:e 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from the Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
of their reforms is often too high. "Too much blood is shed and too many of the old ills simply reappear in a new guise or are replaced by things even worse. Too many opportunities are provided for fanatics and butchers," Norling points out. 
-"What causes National Char­acter?" The proverbial "fiery Spanish soul" is largely a myth, Norling suggests, and is certainly not the product of heredity or nature. Rather, national charac­ter is formed by geographical environment, historical experi­ence, and deli berate indoctrina­tion. 
-"The Cultural Conditions of Achievement" concludes that the law governing the appearan­ce of geniuses in history are either nonexistent, or undis­covered. Norling notes that such factors as adequate wealth, pub­lic interest in the arts and the absence of a strong revolution­ary ideology seem to allow cultural excellence, hut certainly do not guarantee its appearance. 
Norling is also the author of Housing Office marked off rooms for the freshman class. Sister Immaculata explained that this resulted in some areas such as certain parts of Regina Hall consisting of only freshmen with no upperclassmen. 
This undid all of the college's plans with the orientation group because student advisors and group leaders were not living with the freshmen. 
Next year the group leader and student advisor program will be combined and the student advisor will live with the fresh­men. 
Sister Immaculata explained that since most of the student advisors would be juniors it would be impossible for the student advisors to pick rooms unless they know where the fresh men will be living. 
Sister Immaculata emphasized that the class of '7 2 will still have a wide choice of rooms although they would r_eserve some sections for freshmen. The procedure would be to follow to allow fcor a certain number of The room charges will not freshmen to live in a particular increase in the coming year and section. They will not mark off if Augusta Hall is used, it will be specific rooms for the freshmen, comparable in price to the but require that a certain num-rooms in Holy Cross. her live, for example, on a The class of '71 will select certain floor. their rooms on April 23rd, the 
Susie Way, president of the class of '72 on April 27th and 28th, and the class of '73 on
sophomore class, said that after speaking with Sister Immaculata r--A-'-p_r_il_2_9_th_a_n_d_3_0_t_h_.____ 
she realized that "it was logically and reasonably the only way they can choose." She did not 
feel that the procedure was that unfair. 
Sister Immaculata said there will be 35 student advisors who will he living in all four build­ings, Holy Cross, Regina, Le­Mans, and McCandless. She said "it i~ my hope to put some freshmen in McCandless next year." 
Sr. Immaculata commented on the emotional climate of campus around the time of room selection. She said "Our rooms are superior and everyone should not be caught up in the emotion 


Set sale of prom bids 
"Towards a Better Understand­

ing of History," and the recipi-.JF==============i 
ent of the 196l:! Thomas Madden Friday, Saturday 
Award for the best teaching of All Girl Show 
freshmen at Notre Dame. He 

received his doctorate in history at America 
from Notre Dame in 1955. 
On April 22, over 1,200 colleges are going to observe National Earth Day with teach-ins on ecotactics. This is the book you'll want to consult-not only then, but for as long as the fight goes on! 

How to stop them from polluting your world! 

Here's the first book that tells you how to make war on the polluters. It's ECOTACTICS: The Sierra Club Handbook for Environment Activists with an Introduction by Ralph Nader. It's a blueprint for direct action. For example: 
• 
Who's who in the college conser­vation movement-how to apply their techniques. 

• 
How to organize non-violent, direct actions against factories, supermar­kets, department stores, the univer­sity, anti-conservation congressmen and others. 

• 
Mistakes made and lessons learned In anti-pollution actions in Santa Cru:~: ... Stanford ... Washington, 


D.C. 

• 
How to bring the war against pol­lution home to the "silent majority" In local communities. 

• 
How to play the media game to help your ecology group get maxi­mum coverage In campus publica­lions and commercial media. 


~ 

POCKET~ BOOKS 95¢ 
Get ECOTACTICS today-at your bookstore. 
The second sale of bids for the Tri-class prom will be held from 7 p.m. until 9 p.m. on Thursday, April 16, in room 2D of the LaFortune Student Cen­ter. 
The semi-formal prom is scheduled for the first of May from 9 p.m. until I a.m. in Stephan Center. According to Greg Stepic, who is directing the preparations, thirty-eight bids have been purchased. The bids, which sell for ten dollars apiece, include two Grand Prix tickets. 
Stepic would not reveal the source of music for the affair, but did say that it had been selected. He listed the theme as "Chances Are." Decorations will be "heavy" and "very psychede­lic," said Stepic. 
At present, committee is having difficulti in their attempts to secure black lights for the dance. Stepic said that they are willing to rent t black lights for two dollars apiece from students. 
you the 



clillrch the ld
wor 
need a better tomorrow. 
Help us-in lifting man ... even high enough to touch God. The Trinitarians Garrison, Maryland 21055 
I sought my Soul, but my soul rcouldn't 
I sought my God but my God eluded me. 
r Collegiate Diamond Importers 
present 


diamOnd days 
at the 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
1···­
..f 
f~ · -.., J..·.·· WEDNESDAY, APRil. 15, 1970 
w 
.;, Patrick Higgins, CD/ diamond You always save 20% to 40% consultant, will personally assist wilh COl diamonds you in choosing your engagement CDI tmports d111monds dtreelly !rom the 
world's dtamond cenlers. You avotd unneces­
ring and other diamond ;ewe/ry. 
sary mtddleman profits. The cost of your dia­He'll help you choose your own loose d•a· mond does not help pay tho pluaf'l expense• mond: marquise, round, pearshape, emerald, of a jewelry store. Every COl d1amond 111 lufly oval or any olher popular shape. Then you'll ouaranleed, by celllllcale. Full refund within select your lndtvtdual mounltng lo creale a 15 days II you are nol completely sahslled unique diamond ring that Is lruly "yours 
Ask lor your FREE copy ol "Tho Romance of alone". 
tho Diamond" a 32-pago booklet aboullhe hislory, romance and craltmg of diamond•. 11 tncludes hps on how lo choose and care lor your diamond 

bonus offer 
Whtrn ~011 pUIChllltr an~ COl trn<OIBQBIT\tlnl llnQ, ~ou'IIIBCBI.... you1 el'looe• olalalolcompll­mtrnltiiYmllchonggoldw•ddmg b1nd1 V•luo up to S1251 
ijX Diamond Jewelry 


Campus Opinion 
:::::::::::::::~=~=~=~=~:~:~:~:::~:::::~:::::::::::::~:::~:::::: Edited by Glen Corso 
The following column was written hy ex-Student Union Academic Commissioner Pat McDonough for the Observer. Due to the recent controversy surrounding the Academic Commissions program, I [eft it appropriate to ask Mr. McDonough to set forth the philosophy that the commission attempted to follow this year. 
The final weeks of the 1969-70 Student Union Academic CommisFirm have proved to be most interesting and controversial. Much second-guessing has occurred with both students and faculty as the year's events are viewed in retrospect. However, undoubtedly, impetus for criticism was provided by the announcement and subsequent appearance of William Kunstler, March 22. In this column, generously donated by the Observer, with the transition of administrations at hand, it might be worthwhile to examine some of the intracacies of the Academic Commission as a basis for evaluation. 
Pat Dowdall, having observed the trend established by former Commissioners Chuck Nau and John Mroz, upon assuming his duties a year ago, saw need for an expressed philosophy: a rationale behind the direction in which the Commission moves. The purpose of the Academic Commission has been perceived by all of us to be: to fill the extensive void once present in the University-type learning process in providing a spri'lgboard for intellectual stimulation through expression of contemporary thought in the form of lectures, conferences, symposia, and films. Pat, and I upon succeeding him in December, saw this purpose best fulfilled by instilling a 
topic-oriented philosophy--concentration  on  subject matter, and  
not  personalities.  This  approach  was  generally  adhered  to  
throughout the year.  

The necessity for a budget cut for Student Government -Student Union normally would have impeded a schedule of top speakers in a non-election year. However, we ajjplied strict budget control, and our philosophy facilitated presenting some fifty-two events by virtue of the fact that less money was required to contract scholars in various fields than headline grabbers. Resulting from this an already-beginning trend for public figures to view invitation to Notre Dame as an honor and having their names added to the list. 
The procedure of obtaining people to appear at Notre Dame, overall, is theoretically simple, but pragmatically hard, and sometimes frustrating, work. Spring appointments are followed by executive board meetings where scores of names are suggested. The criterion as basis for suggestion lies in the consistency with the overall philosophy, and relevance to the particular program planned, and the field, teaching, or ideas in which the person is engaged. This is followed by a summer marked by hundreds of letters and c<..,s resulting in refusals running I0-1 over acceptances. As agencies tend to absorb a great part of any honorarium, they arc avoided whenever possible, and a more direct, personal approach is maintained. Here the skills of people like Mike Lynch, Bob Lasalvia, Greg Murray, Pat Dowdall, Bill Kurtz, Steve Novak, Steve Steiner and others came into play in impressing upon potential lecturers the integrity of our program. 
Political leanings were recognized, of course, but were not even within the list of priorities. Moreover, it is largely coincidence that mar~ (pardon the expression) "liberals" than "conservatives" appeared. All invitations arc extended in the same manner: more often than not, it is the speaker who calls the shots, including the context of his speech. We did, however, discover that there does actually exist a limited number of available "conservative" thinkers. But. again, our explicit goal was to avoid a solid list of political speakers. Disappointments are numerous: Frank Borman, Frank Shakespeare, Hubert Humphrey, and as I write this column, Alan Watts, all..were scheduled and cancelled at late dates; Spiro Agnew, Robert Fwch, Barry Goldwater, Daniel P. Moynihan and many others were unavailable; and William Buckley requires a $3,000 fee. Regardmg the Spack v. Fortas discussion, I felt that the budget allowed for the appearance of one, not both, and eventually decided on Spack, after an inconclusive poll, on the basis of potential gate receipts and student interest. 
The appearance of William Kunstler was, in my estimation, a rare 
opportunity to present a much sought after, extremely relevant, and contemporary figure who identified with youth perhaps more tnan anyone previously appearing. In presenting a very logical, rational, and well-received lecture, Mr. Kunstler drew in excess of 3,500 people to Stepan Center where no disorders of any sort occurred, reflecting ·the integrity of the student body in which I had confidence. Concerning both the Spack and Kunstler lectures, we felt it necessary to break precedent, and charge $.50 per person in order to ensure the stability of our budget. 
Summarily, we feel we, if not completely accomplished the purpose of the concept of the Academic Commission, have taken a big step forward. 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 1970
PAGE 4 

THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
DAYID C. BACH, Editor GAETANO M. De SAPIO, Publisher 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

Letters 
Editor: 

I have just returned from J:stening to Mr. Claude Brown and as I think back to what I have just witnessed, my admira­tion for him has turned to resentment. 
Mr. Brown created a master­piece in his writing of Manchild in the Promised /,and, if he actually authored the work. He portrayed a picture of a hard working black in the slums of Harlem, starting with three strikes against him, who pro­gressed to a college graduate and a person to be greatly respected. Was this the same man I have 


just finished listening to? I do not believe so. 
Mr. Brown displayed a defi­nite lack of class, I firmly believe he could have expressed his views of Renaissance II in the same manner of speech which he used in the beginning of his talk about the book. I know his vocabulary is not limited to gutter talk, but one would have thought so during the latter part of his performance amid belches, and shouts of black supremacy. 
Mr. Brown is a great story teller, which he brought out in the belittlement of George Wash­ington, Thomas Paine and Amer­ican History. Was this used simply to cut down the white population? 
I wonder if the great Howard University is proud of Claude Brown for his views. I suppose a school of the type which pro­fesses atheism as the only stance to take on religion and hires teachers to profess Christ as a "blue-eyed, blond haired, sisified faggot," would love to have Brown help in the destruction of America's ideals, and the birth of a black nation. 
Mr. Brown, I disagreed with many things which you stated tonight, especiall; that you are one of the leading black intellec­tuals of today. I t'link you cheated your audier.::e severely by using the Sophomore Liter­ary Festival for a biased report on the black situation, thereby depriving us of your literary knowledge which we had hoped to acquire. I can only say that I was deeply disappointed in both you and your performance. 
James E. Hayes 
Editor: 

I just read in the newspaper that you are sp,onsoring another queen contest-for the Grand Prix. I must object to these continued queen contests that you sponsor for the degradation of woman. The contests would not be particularly disgusting if criterion other than mere f~cial features were considered. Cer­tainly the worth of a human being is more than their external features. What about the follow­ing criterion: intelligence, hu­man warmth, a concern for fellow human beings, notable achievement in significant activi­ties. If your queen contests cannot accomodate such criteria, then I would suggest that you 
drop them. 

J. Patrick Dowdall James E. Met·t.ger 
Dave Bach 

Spiro strikes again 

Spiro Agnew was in Des Moines again Monday night, five months to the day after his speech blasting the news media. This time he talked about the quality of college education. It was another Agnew blockbuster. The main targets were open admissions and quota systems in admitting freshmen. 
Agnew claimed that by lowering admissions standards to increase minority ,enrollment the universities were at the same time lowering the value of a college degree. The vice president specifically criticized the University of Michigan for what he called a surrender to militant black students who demanded a I 0% enrollment by 1973. He compared that to the open admissions policies adopted by Italian universities at the demand of rebellious students. 
He called diplomas issued by such institutions "Bargain basement diplomas" and said that "today Italian employers advertising for college graduates are careful to specify that the degree must date back to 1967." 
Agnew also said that he is in favor of expanded educational opportunities for the deprived, but said that this was not the way to go about getting them a better education. The way he proposed was expanded preparatory and compensatory education before admission to make unqualified students qualified. 
At the very least it can be said that Mr. Agnew appreciates the value of an early education. Because many minority students were deprived of a decent education when they were young, they might now be judged unfit by normal standards. And Agnew wants to help them, which is nice. . 
But I think Mr. Agnew's remarks belie an attitude that is prominent in the entire Nixon administration. He recognizes that there are problems. But he hopes to ignore the sy mptons and treat the causes. With time everything will work out all right. It is time for 

a "benign neglect."  
Perhaps  everything  will  work  out  all  right.  But  maybe  the  
symptoms  will  become  acute  before  the  cause  can  be  treated  
properly.  

The recent controversy over bussing and freedom of choice seems to indicate that the problems won't work themselves out. Southern schools, any schools for that matter which have de jure segregation, have had 16 years to set up a system for school desegregation. In many cases this just hasn't developed. That attitude of the administration seems to he that it is remarkable that the southern schools have gotten as far as they have in only the 16 years since Brown vs. Board of Education. 
The fact is that neither treating symptoms or causes by themselves will solve the problem. Both must he treated. Reduced admissions standards are one way of getting academic prestige for members of minority groups. It is not a cure-all, but it will help. And once the students are admitted they should be given extra attention. 
If the vice-president is willing to give aid before admission to college, he. should be willing to give attention while in college, so that there IS not a drought of capable minority scholars. 
Executive Editor: Dave Stauffer Business Mgr.: Bruce Rieck Campus Editor: Glen Corso News Editor: Steve Hoffman 
The opinions expressed in theAssociate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, editorials, news analyses, and Ann Conway, Jeanne Sweeney columns of THE OBSERVER are 
Sports Editor: Terry Shields 
solely those of the authors andFeatures Editor: T.C. Treanor­editors of THE OBSERVER andPhotography Editor: Mike Murphy do not necessarily reflect theNight Controller: Harrison Chung views of St. Mary's College, the
Night Editor: Rich Smith University of Notre Dame, their
Layout Design: Marty Tieber 
administration, faculty, orLayout: Marilyn Becker, Anne student bodies. 
Therese Darin, Mike Bridgeman, Dan Shaw Headlines: Rich Smith 


WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 1970 
THE OBWlJIER. 


On the other side of despair 

by T.C. Treanor 
111e first of a two part story. 
Zap Corni x arc not recommended for people with weak stomachs. Nor are they recommended for people with weak minds. 
R. Crumb -officially or unofficially, he's known hy no ol her name -is an underground artist and one-time greeting-can! designer who went commer­cial about three years ago and who has, since Ihen, pi.:ked up .:onsiderablc follow­ing. The following is the result of four .:omic books called "Zap Comix." 
AI least they look like comic books. Cartoon people with talk balloons popu­late the pages·. The cover is glossy paper; smiling, happy people jump around the page. Talking animals act and read. 
But it's not the same thing at all; and it's never funnier than when it's dread­fully unfunny. Other comic hooks sell illusion; Zap sells reality. Other .:omic hooks sell sugar; Zap sells hitter chocolate w11 h the same smiling enthusiasm. 
Crumb warns us what we're in for in the first cartoon of his first issue, issue no. 0. "Mr. Skctchum is at it again!" proclaims the head as four malformed shadows yell "yippie" under an eggdull sun. 
A cartoonist sits before a drawing hoard and says, "That's right! I'm hack!! And with cartoons that are better than ever! Zap' comics will contain all the latest in humor! Audacious! Irreverent! Provocative! You bet! And just chock full of surprises! Every page will be jam­packed with thrills and laffs!" Obligingly, a clown springs out of his tie and goes "foot!" Another plastic toy walks across a panel, making a face at the outside. 
The cartoonist walks over to a window, ki.:ks aside a Mad magazine, and looks out. "As you can sec." he says, pondering 
the cosmos, "My studio is high up in a skyscrappcr... l I mm Ill... What's that dot out there'! Let me zero in on that dot with my telescope! It's so tiny! But you never can tell about a thing like that! Just as I thought ... it's moving ... "lt's a kid!" lie focuses in on the dot; and through what has been described as the "magic of comics" brings forth a smiling, waving Four of Zap's most famous characters from left to right: two row-Mr. Natural and Flakey Foont. Bottom row -the artist himself and Angel Food McSpade. 


boy. "And he's waving to us from all the way over there! Must be miles! Isn't that amazing?" Satisfied, he turns around and says with a wide-open grin, "See what I mean? Things like that are happening all the time in these comic strips... Wow! Don't miss a single issue!" Yes, Mr. Skctchum is at it again: using his magic to create the trivial; hut not the absurd. 
"Meatball" was the feature story of that issue; the story of the side dish that changed lives. The story hegins in Jersey City where a particularly unpleasant 
middle-aged woman was hit by a meatball and transformed in.to "America's favorite 
Zappa and the Mothers in LA 
Frank Zappa has announced the tem­porary reconvening of his Mothers of Invention for a special concert in conjun­ction with the Los Angeles Philharmonic Orchestra and conductor Zubin Mehta to 
he  performed  in  Pauley  Pavilion  at  the  
University  of  Southern  California.  Los  
Angdes. May 15th.  

Zappa, who disbanded his infamous ru.:k group about nine months ago after building it into the foremost of the iconoclast rock bands, announced the rt·grouping at a press conference held at the Los Angeles Music Center at which Zappa, Mehta (Music Director Philhar­monic),Ernest Fleischmann, (Executive Director of the Music Center) discussed details of the unprecedented combined performance which is to he presented as part of the Music ('enter's four concert Con tempo '70 series. 
The program will he divided into three parts, the first consisting of the Orches­tra's performance of Immohiles 1-4 by Mel Powell and lntegmles by Edgar Varcsc. In the second Zappa and the Mothers will perform Zappa scored inter­pretations of the I ntegrales and an ad­ditional piece. Following intermission, the final presentation will feature the Mothers and the L.A. Philharmonic simul­taneously inter-changeably conducted by Mehta and Zappa performing excerpts from Zappa's 2\li hour original composi­tion "200 Motels". 
In his fourteen years of composing, Zappa noted that this would be the first opportunity he has had to hear any of his orchestral music performed by a full orchestra, as in the past it has been necessary for him to hire all players who appeared with the Mothers. He expressed his gratitude to the Philharmonic for making the concert possible through the offering of its services, and for having the courage to share stage with his band. 
In preparation for the concert The Mothers and Zappa will be performing a series of "obscure warm-up engage­ments" over Mother's Day Weekend, at New York's Fillmore East, May 8, 9 and at the Philadelphia Academy of Music, May I Oth. The group would not however become involved in a road tour situation as Zappa emphasized the dates were "strictly to get our chops up to the L.A. 
concert." 

The demothballing of the group will also be utilized in conjunction with the filming of "Uncle Meat", Zappa's full length Cinemascope stereo documentary on the Mothers and their relation to the pop phenomenon. Sequences to be lensed in April will be integrated with extensive already existing footage on the group in live performance, and rare collected film on pop's early era. 
Apart from the Mothers, Zappa is currently performing and recording with the players featured on his recent Bizarre/ Reprise album, "Hot Rats". The group has a second album in production for the same label, to he titled "Chunga's Revenge". The quintet which was con­ceived by Zappa as "an opportunity for the players involved to. creatively blow their brains out", makes r~re appearances at unpredictable intervals, most recently in Los Angeles at Bill Graham's Olympic Auditorium concert and at the University of Southern Californis; upcoming at thL Community Theatre in Berkely, April 18. 
mother." Subsequently, a machinist who frequently had nightmares about the H-Bomb was hit by a meatball and now "spends all his lime answering letters and phone calls from people wanting specific details" What the questions or details are is never explained. 
More people got hit, including Ber­trand Russel and Kim Novak; investi­gations launched; arrests made. The Head of the Yale Sociological Studies Depart­ment warned that "meathall must be stopped." (Head has, of course, a double meaning; drug symbolism abounds.) Finally, on Tuesday it rains meatballs in Los Angeles for fifteen minutes, hitting thousands. Since then, the incidence of meatball had declined, though. Crumb ends his little story-essay showing a sweating middle aged man in an easy chair; then a sly, winking meatball. "For many of those who haven't yet encoun­
tered the meatball, the decline is a 
constant source of anxiety as they wait 
and hope that some fine day they 
too....but alas .... MEATBALL doesn't 
work that way." 
Crumb reverses Mcctuehcn. In 
"Meatball," the Message is the Medium. 
For the greatest and most specific 
characteristic of the effect of "Meatball," 
is that it's vague. It .:hanges one's life, one 
is assured. It is powerful. But what it 
actually does is never too clear. And, 
Crumb suggests, thus it is with all 
searches for the anodyne; when it comes; 
nobody knows it. But in the comic book 
world -·as in the world of all man ufac­
tured illusion, where things are pictured 
as they should he and not as they really 
arc, Crumb the artist can easily circum­
vent this truth in deliberate ambiguity. 
Crumb uses this device again to create 
"city of the future;" a nightmare world 
sold through the magic of illusion. The 
city features plastic cars, plastic streets, 
plastic buildings (specially designed to 
prevent accidents from being painful); 
warm snow for C:hristmas; eternal tele· 
vision; Fantazoom, a device which 
manufactures any illusion desired upon 
command (and a twenty-five cent 
deposit); adroids that fornicate or fight 
wars as desired; baby~itting robots; 
"foam plastic blobs," which "undulate 
slowly in and out and soothing, sweet 
music plays." A robot-run dump trunk 
comes once a year to take all the "old 
stuff" and put it into a machine which 
grinds it up into "new stuff." Crumb's 
illustration shows, along with an old 
house and a few old cars, a man's leg 
being thrown into those machines. 
But that's not the way that most of us will go, says Cru mh. In his next-to-last panel, some old gaffer bends over a golf hall. He looks up, and beads of perspiration appear as he sees three downs with a pil~ approach. "Yes," Crumb writes, "Everything will be beautiful, but we'll still have to regulate population growth. So when you're 65 they'll come looking for you with a pie ... not just an ordinary pie!!" In the next panel, they turn-the pie over and face the reader. "A cyanide pie!!" celebrates Crumb. "What a way to go!!" One clown honks a horn and another says "That's all, brother," by way of emphisis. 
And that, my friends, is Zap. And that is also despair. 
Tomorrow, Observer reviewer Treanor explores Zaps 1, 2, and 3, and looks into another Cmmh creation, Despair. 


The ICE CAPADES Show will be at the Convo tonight, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. 
PAGE 6 711E OBSERfl.llt WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 1970 
"Good burn" sends Apollo on return 
(continued from page 1)  booster and got a picture of the  will  have  flown  a  mission  of  no relaxation at all, as far as that  tanks  of  the  moonwalk  back  
other nations, including Russia,  mishap by accident.  about 142 hours.  goes,  from  now  until  splash,"  packs.  
are  parties  to  the International  The  photo  shows  the  S4B  said flight  director Glynn Lun- 





Freshmen 
General Program of Liberal Studies Meet Your Major Night 
7:30PM 204 O'Shaughnessy Wedn ril15 
systems in the lunar lander. 
"We should have enough to complete oxygen requirements for about 165 or 170 hours of flight," he said. 
The three astronauts, if they splashdown Friday as scheduled, 
Water, the life stuff of man and spaceships, is one critical concern for the aborted Apollo 13 flight. 
Space Agency officials said yesterday they were confident enough water was aboard the disabled spaceship for the astro­
nauts ride home. 

"We have projected the con­sumables ... and we have a plan for carrying out the rest of the mission, but there is going to be ney. 

Lunney said based on the expected uses of the spacecraft, Apollo 13 should be able to land "with still about 12 or 13 hours of water left." 
And, he said, there was sufficient drinking water. 
The moon lander,-now the lifeboat of astronauts James A. Lovell, Fred W. Haise and• Jack 
L. Swigert-stores water for drinking, cooling, fire exting­uishing, and refilling the water 

In fulfillment of her campaign 
promises, SMC Stude~t Body 
President Ann Marie Tracey 
announced plans to initiate six 
commissions concerning student 
affairs at last night's student 
assembly meeting. 

"We decided we'd like to 
work on drugs, public relations, 
•sex education, co-education, stu­dent rights, and off-campus questions," Miss Tracey explain­ed, "since nothing definite has been done on these issues. Notre Dame approached us for cooper­ation and coordination of differ­ent commissions such as those presently under SSO, Student Union and cabinet positions that Notre Dame has and those we plan to initiate." 
After a discussion in the assembly, Miss Tracey, in con­sensus with the assembly, said that chairmen for these commis-
To raise fun 

Borrowing a page from tradli­tional political practice, the Nutting for President backers will hold a Fun-Raising Dinner tonight at 119 Mill Street, at 6:30p.m.. 
Dr. Nutting will speak at the dinner, which will feature spaghetti and meatballs. Anyone desiring tickets is asked to call 4675, since no tickets will be sold at the door. 


Commission plans revealed 
by Anne Therese Darin ' 
sions would be appointed by her without an occupant's permiss­(deadline: April 24). They ion," she stated. would serve as non-voting mem-"Oftentimes, students leave bers of her cabinet~ for vacation with radios on, 
"People complain that stu-windows open, live pets running dent government doesn't get wild, and record players on." involved," claimed Miss Tracey. Representatives .eported a "The problem in the past has possible misuse of this right been a lack of initiative in illustrating their point with the responsible organization. For removal of a "Send A Girl to example, on the co-education Boys' Town" poster from a issue, ND students researched student's door for no apparent proposals and presented them in reason. a report to their trustees." In trying to find a solution to 
"On the other hand, five of us the problem, senators suggested at SMC helped at ND with the that hall representatives propose research but there was no an amendment at their next comparable organization in SMC meeting restricting the hall direc­student government to follow it tor from entering a resident's through, 'she continued. room without accompaniment 
"Our idea would establish by a member of hall govern-commissions of our own, so that ment. we can research, legislate, and Jane Sheehy then reported on then follow through," added a meeting held by Sr. Immacula-Jean Gorman, SBVP. ta on recently composed hall 
Other action at the meeting constitutions. centered Dn a review of room "Sister suggested that we rights and hall constitutions. would save time and expense by 
In answering representatives' writing one hall constitution, complaints that "hall directors This constitution could be enter on pretese of checking amended by each hall to adapt it items such as faulty circuits, but to its own needs," she explained. 
then proceed to get you on From this discussion on hall everything..scotch tape of the constitutions stemmed a debate walls, matching furniture, .. " on to what extent hall councils Miss Gorman reported on a have the right to legislate on hall conference she had with Sr. matters. In response to debate, Immaculata, dean of students, the assembly passed two mo­on the issue. tions regarding hall directors' 
"According to Sr. lmmacu-status on its council. lata, because of sanitation, and Hall directors or their dele­other dangers, hall directors have gated representatives will be the right to go in a room non-voting members in an advis­
ory capacity on the council. 

Senators also voted that dis­crepanciet between hall directors and councils would be brought to the student affairs committee, composed of administration, fa­culty, and students. 
presents 
Nathaniel Tarn Poet and Anthropologist 
Anselm Hollo 
Poet and Translator 
7:30PM Tonite \Vashington Hall 
•autoo 






1europ,,@
1STUDENT/FACUlTV GRANT Program Special rates in European overseas travel 
for purchase, lease, & rental of cars. For 
details and brochure write: University Grant Dept., Auto Europe, 1270 Second New York, New York 10021. 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 1970 PAGE 7
THE OBSERIJER. 
MANAGE
Vietnam action continues 
*AMERICA* 
SAIGON (UI'I) Montagnard 
mander of South Vietnamese border in the "parrot's beak" attacked a regional forces militia 
next year?
tribesmen trained by U.S. Army troops in the highlands, said last salient 33 miles morth west of outpost a quarter of a mile from Green Berets stormed up a weekend he expct:ts another Saigon early Tuesday and the frontier. 
Ca11 8357 or 1185 

hillside yesterday and recpaturcd an outpost taken Sunday by North Vietnamese fort:es besie­ging Dak Pek. Communist gunners fired more mortar shells· into a sister t:amp at Dak Seang. 
Col. NGuyen Bai Tin, South Vietnamese t:onunander in the area, said the Montagnards killed 25 North Vietnamese regulars in seiLing the outpost ncar Dak Pek on the t:en t raJ highlands 3 I 0. miles morthea!\t of Saigon. He said Montagnard losses were "very light." 
At Dak Sean g. 20 miles south of Dak Pek, North Vietnamese artillerymen pumped 82mm mortar and 7 5 mm ret:oilless rifle shells into the bunker complex but there was little ground at:tion. 
Tin said the two North Vietnamese infantry regiments whit:h laid siege to Dak Seang on April I, have apparently with­drawn into the hills around the Dak Poko Valley to regroup for another attack. 
Lt. (;en. Lu Monglan, wm­assault on Dak Seang. 
The two Green Beret camps 
are situated in jungles where the 
bonlt:rs of South Vietnam, 
Cambodia and Laos meet <ind 
serve as the center of ground 
reconnaissance operations along 
the Ho Chi Minh Trail, North 
Vietnam's main military supply 
line. 
Tin reported that I ,515 North 
Vietnamese and Viet Cong have 
Tin reported that I,51 5 North Vietnamese and Viet Cong have been killed in the Dak Seang campaign and that 217 more have been slain at Oak Pek. 
Elsewhere, Communist troops stormed at:ross the (':>mhnrli«n 

Open meeting 
An open meeting of the Constitutional Revision Commit­tee will be held this evening in the Amphitheatre of the Student Center at 7:00 p.m., Student Body President Dave Krashna annount:ed. 
All interested persons are urged. to attend. 
Editor named 
Jeanne Sweeney yesterday was appointed SMC News Editor by Editor-in.('hief Dave Bat:h. Miss Sweeney, a junior from Cold Springs Harbor, New York, will replace senior Prudent:e Wear. 
At the same time Bach an­nount:ed that the Editorial Board for SMC will t:onsist of Miss Sweeney, Sue Bury, Ann Conway, Patty Lipswmb, and Mary Chris Morrison. 
Jeanne emphasized that she would greatly like to expand the SMC news staff. "We've greatly expanded our coverage under Prudence this year, but if we hope to give St. Mary's more t:overage we positively need more" girls. Even for the last two months of this year, anyone's interest would be appredated." 
By the first week in Novem­ber this year, more stories were written about St. Mary's than in all of the previous year. 


FU plans expansion, coo-rdination 
by Dave McCarthy 
University Chairmen Mike
It was learned yesterday in 
Shaughnessy and Paul Guernsey
conversations with 1970-71 Free 
that the primary objectives for 

next year's Free University were expansion and t:O-ordination. Both t:hairmen noted their efforts to indut:e greater fat:ulty participation in the program~ and Shaughnessy particularly noted attempts to persuade Dr. Willis Nutting to serve as an advisor to the Free University Board; but, according to Guern­sey, fat:ulty response to date has been less than expected. Guern­sey also emphasized the· need for "tighter" t:o-ordination among the instrut:lors. 
The purpose of Free Universi­ty, as described by Shaughnessy Mike Shaughnessy 
Galgan re-elected by Dillon 
activity as a necessary factor in a
In the Monday night Dillon suct:essful campus-wide studentHall presidential elet:tion, incum­government.
bent Bob Galgan won an over­Earley, a junior physit:s major whelming mandate to serve his 
from Garden City, New York,second term as hall president. 
saw the hall president as a link Galgan pulled ~09 votes. 
betwe611 the t:oming Student Opponent Tony Early placed Forum and the hall members.
second with 55 votes. A large Earley mentioned Big Brother turnout of voters, 76.6% of and Neighborhood Study HelpDillon's 347 residents came to as possible activities on a hall the polls. 
level. 
Galgan, a junior pre-med Galgan copped 78.5% of the major from Palos Heights, llli-total of the hall vote. Earley nois, ran on a platform of • drew 20.6%. continuing in the same style and The president termed his direction of his present Admini-victory "phenomenal" and saw stration. it as a mandate to push harder 
This past year Dillon saw a for continued progress in making ret:onstrut:tion of the hall coun-Dillon the finest hall on campus. cil, an improved hall financial system, a well organized orienta­
Even Polynesian 
tion for hall freshman, a com­puterized room selection and a 
dancing at America 
resurgent:e of hall pride. Galgan emphasized greater 
this weekend!!!
partidpation in all levels of hall 
I.e. Choir 
Black Culture Show 
Admission Free Thurs. 8:00PM-2nd floor LaFortune 
FROM CLARKSVILLE, MISSISSIPPI 
/'res en ted by Student Union 

Craftsmen in Optics"' 
SOUTH BEND-THE SHERLAND BUILDING. 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 


RouseofVisioli ®~ 
The House of Vision, Inc. 
is to, "stimulate learning for learning's sake." Guernsey con­curred, relll"drking that it sought t2 "liberate the educational experience." 
Shaughnessy also stressed the significance of May I, Free City Day. Inspired by Dr. Nutting's book, Free City, it will be a day devoted to, "free edut:ational interchange." He hopes that fat:Uity members will participate in lieu of conducting classes to, "establish the atmosphere of the Free University," and serve as a prelude to next year's program. 
The chairmen plan to intro­dut:e the incoming freshmen to the Free University during orien­tation, getting them interested and involved as students and instructors before the football season distrat:ts them. 
Fox's Extends 
SPECIAL PRICES 
to 
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
Aii~ --=--·~"""'":"It k.::.~==~ ~~=I: ak::o: .::::)
fine Points of cut, color and quality••• and what gives a diamond Its value. Th.-e'i only -way to blly a diamond..• and that It by coming to a jeweler you can trust. 
DIAMONDS $50 TO $5,000 OPEN A CONVENIENT 
~~~~~~A~C~CO~UNTTODAV 
THE OBSERVER NEEDS 
A SECRETARY 
Call 7471 , 6896 
or 
Write : THE ·oBSERVER c/o Business Manager Box 11 
STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION Needs 
HELP 
Homcoming and Mardi Gras CREATIVE PEOPLE FOR NEW IDEAS. EFFICIENT PEOPLE FOR SUCCESS. 
Promotion IMAGINATIVE PEOPLE FOR PLANNING ADVER· TISING, LAYOUT AND 
Contact: Jim Porst COORDINATION OF PUBLICITY.
Socia] Commission Box 427 

PAGE 8 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 1970 
Sailo.rs seek fourth championship 
by Terry Shields and placing fifth (out of 17 Indiana Regatta and the Ohio The club has been led by and Carbondale, Illinois for a 
teams) in another. Weslyan team race. ND placed Commodore Chuck Taylor, a 
race with Southern Illinois.
Observer Sports Editor 
Notre Dame is a member of fifth in the Boston Dinghy Cup. junior, and Ron Dorazio is 
The ND club will be busy on Going unnoticed over the past the Midwest Collegiate Associ­The club is composed of 55 second in command. Other men each weekend of the spring and few weeks, but nonetheless win­ation and its quest this year is to members, including eight girls who qualify as the more ex­
its efforts should culminate in 
ning at a satisfactory rate, is the cope a fourth straight champion­from SMC, and many of these perienced sailors are Rich Doyle, 
the Midwest Championships at 
Notre Dame Sailing Club. The ship of this region. people are utilized for one Mike Morrissey, Kevin Hoyt, 
John Carroll in Cleveland and 

club has competed in three This season the Irish have won regatta. A regatta consists of the George Gaw, Tom -5alack, John the National Championships in "varsity" regattas, winning two two of these regattas, the Irish sending two boats (A&B, Hildebrandt, Tom Willison, Tom Madison, Wisconsin. 
this has no significance for they Barry, Greg Powers, Tim Flood is a "monotype
There also 
are of equal importance) to and Bill Dowe. These men race" for the National Champ­represent the club and each boat switch off during a regatta ionship. This involves only one
JIM MURRAY 
compete in a number of races. taking turns as skipper and crew. man to The Irish
a boat. best
The team with the lowest 
This weekend the Irish will hope for this is Doyle.
composite score (i.e. having the 
travel to three different sites to 
lowest number of finishes) is The freshmen in the club have 
sail against some outstanding
declared the winner. followed the upperclassmen's


The Fuzz 
competition. The feature regatta 
In the individual races of a example quite well. In their only 
will be in Annapolis, Maryland 
regatta only two members of a regatta of the season thus far,
for the John F. Kennedy Mem­
team can compete in the same they took top honors. This came
orial Cup. The other two scenes 
boat. Their official titles are in the Notre Dame Freshman


of Sports 
of battle will be Columbus, Ohio 
skipper and a crew, even though Invitational in March.
for the Ohio State Invitational 
this is only one man. 
(!!) 1978, t..o.s Angeles Times 
When you think of the 1969 World Series, perhaps you will want to recall a lifetime .222 hitter who batted seven points below that 
Austin IS • officially second 
for the season suddenly hitting .455 with one homer (his third of the NEW YORK (UPI)-All Amer­Maravich in 31 games hit 522 and 138 free throws while season his seventh of his life) and three runs batted in. 
icans Austin Carr of Notre Dame field goals and 337 free throws Humes scored 733 points in 24 Or, 'you may prefer to remember. heretofore clumsy outfielders 
and Rick Mount of Purdue for I ,381 points. games. Humes' scoring was done playing the outfield as if it were a trapeze. You may even prefer to ranked secol)d and third, respec­Mount scored 708 points in by 278 field goals and 177 free think of it as the time Baltimore froze at the controls and crashed. 
tively, in the national college 20 games, hitting 285 field goals throws. 
But, baseball clinicians, those who take the games home and put 
scoring race, the National Colle­
them under a microscope, will be more interested in the influence of 
giate Sports Service Bureau re­
a team which never fielded a fly, hit a curve, stole a base or threw a ported Saturday.
slider--the umpires. 
The Hoosier pair averaged
Should Shag Crawford have thrown Oriole manager Earl Weaver 
73.5 points a game between 
out of a game which was to go into extra innings and be decided by 
them with Carr hitting at a 38.1
the kind of a play ball clubs keep managers around to get justice on? 
point dip and Mount rifling
Should Shag or umpire Lou DiMuro have called pinch hitter J. C. 
away at 35.4. However, Pistol
Martin out on that crucial play for a) running on the wrong side ot 
Pete Maravich of Louisiana State 
the retaining line to first base; or b) throwing his arms up in the air 
University won the title with a 
to interfere with the pitcher's bid for an out? 
44.5 point average.
Shouldn't DiMuro also have followed that caroming ball into the 
Another Hoosier, Willie 
Mets dugout or, failing that, have disallowed it as evidence on the 
Humes of Madison, but playing
play where it supposedly hit bmtter Cleon Jones-since the ball was 
basketball at Idaho State, placed
out of his sight long enough for them to have painted a mustache on 
fifth with 30.5 points per game.
it? 
Fourth spot went to Dan Issei of 
The episodes serve again to prove that baseball's shortest supply 
Kentucky. Issei tallied 33.9 
today is not .300 hitters but .900 umpires-not homers but 
points per contest. 
non-homers. lt proves again Bill Klem 's old assertion that the least 
Carr, a junior from Washing­
important attribute of an umpire is eyesight--that it finishes well 
ton D.C., shattered most of the
behind hustle, common sense, intuition, courage, honesty, control of Austin Carr, Notre Dame's basketball team captain, has been
Irish scoring records with 444 
your temper, and a desire for fair play. 
officially declared the second highest scorer in the NCAA for the
field goals and 218 free throws
An umpire is a guy who calls a pitch he is standing six inches '69-70 season.
for I,I06 points in 29 games.
from--and then is called "blind!" by some drunk sitting in the third tier behind left field. Emmett Littleton (some suggest his middle name is really a description) Ashford is the only black umpire in the major 
Guerrin slapped with fine 
leagues--which may suggest why he's only celebrating his fifth answer why things are like they ' So it can't all be me," heanniversary instead of his 20th. 
ATLANTA UPI-It cost 
are." said. "All I did was directly say"People think," says Emmett, "that all an umpire needs is a 
Atlanta Hawks Coach Richie 
Numerous phone calls had how I felt about it."
well-thumbed rule book and an ability to see without glasses. An 
Guerin $1,000 to vent his wrath 
poured in from around the Kennedy charged Guerin with umpire needs, first of all, concentration. Even more than that, he over the 
officiating in the first 
country, Guerin said, as people being "personally accountableneeds dedication. Umpires in baseball don't do it as a sideline. They 
game of the playoffs with the 
who watched the game on for the conduct of your team fordon't have jobs during the week as principals of high schools or 
Los Angeles Lakers but he still 
television also were complaining the remaining games of the 1970playground supervisors or stockbrokers. Umpiring is a career. In 
wouldn't withdraw his threat of 
about the officiating. playoffs."
football, you may have to give crucial calls every Sunday. In 
"blood" in last night's second baseball, you may have five in the first four minutes. The instant 
game.replay gets I00 chances a game to show you you chose the wrong 
Guerin called a news confer­
MAJOR LEAGUES
career." 
ence Monday to denounce the The umpire is the real charlady of sports. He should get combat refereeing in Sunday's 119-1 I 5 NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE pay. His payoff is anonymity. "If you notice him," notes Ashford, loss to the Lakers. He said East East "he is doing a bad job." Emmett, one of the last of the "there will be blood tomorrow w Pet. GB w L Pet. GB
Shakespearean umpires does not refer to the dramatic "out!" night if that's the way they want L 
Pittsburgh 4 2 .667 Baltimore 5 1 .833
gesture, or the performance which demands curtain calls, but it." 
*St. Louis 3 2 .600 y, Detriot 4 3 .571 1%
"notice" in the sense that news pictures may seem to contradict his When NBA Commissioner 
New York 3 3 .500 Washington 3 3 .500 2
version of play the next day. Walter Kennedy heard <'bout it 
Philadelphia 3 3 .500 Boston 3 3 .500 2 he promptly fined Guerin 1% New York 4 .333 3
An umpire gets a minimum of $1 0,000-a-year salary and a Chicago 2 3 .400 2 $1 ,000 for "conduct detrimental *Montreal 1 4 .200 2 Cleveland 2 5 .286 3%
maximum of $40-a-day expenses (in New York that means taking a 
to professional basketball." 
subway and shining your own shoes). Umpires never make the Ed 
Guerin's chief response to West WestSullivan Show, or bubble-gum cards. No one screen tests him for the 
that was that "I think the
part of Tarzan. He is "the fuzz" of basebalL 
w L Pet. GB
com missioner had better learn w L Pet. GBThe Supreme Court is wildly biased compared to an umpire. 
*Cincinnati 6 3 .667
what the responsibilities of a *California 5 0 1.000
"Often, I don't even know the score," admits Emmett. An umpire is *Atlanta 4 3 .571 
Minnesota 3 0 1.000 1
coach are."
not required to know the score, just the rules. "I have had guys *San Diego 4 3 .571 
*Milwaukee 3 4 .429 3
In his news conference, Guer­*San Fran. 4 4 .500 IY,
come up to me at night and say, 'Why did you call me 'out' on the *Oakland, 2 .400
3 3 play at second?' and I say, 'Oh, was that you?'" claims Emmett. in stopped just short of accusing 3 .429 2 Kansas City 2 4 .333 3%
*Houston 4 the referees of protecting Laker Los Angls 2 5 .286 3
It is a service job which does not appear to today's generation, *Chicago 5 .167 4% 
Baylor, *night game not included
because you get on television with your back to the camera. There superstars Elgin Wilt *night game not included 
Pittsburgh 6 New York 4 (10 inn.)
has never been an umpires' strike called anywhere but behind the Chamberlain and Jerry West. He Milwaukee at Oakland (night)
Chicago 5 Philadelphia 4
said callers after the game, Chicago at .California (night)plate. No one has ever caught an ump on the phone to the mafia. 
St. Louis 3 Montreal 0 (3rd inn.)
including one of the Milwaukee Detriot 12 Cleveland 4"But, baseball is worried. I am worried," admits Ahsford. "We 
Cin_cinnati 2 San Diego 0 (6th inn.) 
Washington at Baltimore (rain)
owners, called it "the biggest
have to develop umpires the same way you develop second-basemen. San Francisco at Atlanta (night) 
Boston 8 New York 3
disgrace in the history of
And there are no 'pheenoms' in a mask and strike indicator. 'Genius' Los Angeles at Houston (night)
sports."
• is not a word that can be applied to umpiring. It has to be learned, like the law. Only, you can't make an emotional courtroom "If we are going to get called argument win your case. There are no shortcuts. Just because you for those little fouls, then Baylor can hit a strike doesn't mean you can call one. I have been, and West won't finish the disappointed in young proteges. You have tolearn your trade in long series," Guerin said. hot summers in border towns. I was kept there by prejudice. But Guerin said the Hawks were they arc kept there by laziness--or impatience. There are three "very despondent" after Sun­
~ things an umpire cannot be--lazy, impatient, or rich." day's game. "They'd like an 



