

VOL. IV, NO. 85 Serving the Notre Dame and Sa{nt M_ary 's College ('o111muni~1' TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 1970 
Candidates seek SMC Presidency 

SMC Nominations 
When the nominations for Student Government offices closed last night, it was revealed that only one of the posts will be un­opposed. 
Running in tickets for SBP and SBVP are junior Carol Cusick and Sopho­more Suzie Way and Soph­omores Ann Marie Tracey and Jean Gorman. 
Candidates for the Stu­Carol Cusick Suzie Way 
dent Affairs Council seat 
Ann-Marie Tracey Jean Gorman are Nan Kavanaugh and Karen Schultz, both jun­iors. 
Tracey seeks officeCusick enters race 
Junior Carol Henninger is unopposed in her cam­but we may have a Christian 


ality."
by Prue Wear by Jeanne Sweeney
paign for Academic Affairs
moral obligation to redirect the The two basic ideas of their
SMC News Editor 
OBSERVER Associate Editorexisting pattern of society." Chairman. 
platform call for an identity for Stay senator Ann MarieCusick and Way outlines three SMC and a hope that students 

McCandless senator Carol Cu­major concerns of their plat­mental college, in which stu­Tracey announced her candidacy will have more of a voice in sick announced her candidacy dents from both colleges partici­for Student Body President yes­
form: student life, academic life student government by initiating 
for SMC Student Body President and the problem of co-educa­pate in an "experiment in terday. Her running rna te is Jean the present structure. 
yesterday. Suzie Way, Sopho­Christian living intended as a Gorman, a representative for

tion. The candidates said that "stu­
more Class President, will be "Our major issues in student beginning to a new community." Holy Cross Hall in the Student dent government, if channeled Cusick's running mate and candi­life are hall autonomy, off­"We feel that co-education in Assembly. Tracey is a political correctly can give the individual date for Student Body Vice­campus housing, and the racial the classroom and the living science major and her running a more responsible voice. The 
President. areas is a natural environment mate has a major in mathe­

problem," Way said. Hall auton­restructuring of student govern­In a general statement of their omy is vitally important, she that stimulates development and matics. ment allows for a greater partici­
thought," Cusick stated. "We

goals, the candidates remarked, said, because "a person lives and The development of the com­pation of students in the govern­
would like to see students living munity through responsible per­

"There should be something spends most of his time in the ment and particularly in calling unique within a Christian aca­hall, therefore regulations should on the opposite campus, and sonal involvement is the basic for the establishment of Hall demic community. It should be be on a hall, not a college, level. maximum cooperation between premise upon which the two constitutions and revamping of a community of individuals with We would like to see the halls the departments at the two have built their platform. Tracey Hall Councils." a common concern for the free­provide more recreational facili­schools." said that "we would like to sec Miss Tracey also emphasized dom and dignity of each person ties and give the students the Way presented the idea for an St. Mary's strive for the personal the part SMC should play in
SMC Student Union. "We'd like

built on open communication opportunity for more student­commitment of each of its mem-determining its future as an insti­
it completely student run, de­

and awareness." faculty dialogue." bers to the ideals of a Christian tution, as well as its relationship 
voted solely to the interest of

In an interview, Cusick and community within a local and with Notre Dame. She offered
Cusick said of off-campus
Way explained their main orien­the students. It would be an area world community."

housing, Hall life will always be some suggestions which included 
tation, "The uniqueness we hope for group activities, cultural ex­

structured. It cannot fulfill the "The idea behind this," said a more active part in research of 
have go the change, and much needed pri­a
to must beyond Tracey, "is that everyone has

needs of all students, and there­the goals behind SMC, co-educa­
mechanical transactions within fore students should have a vacy. It would be possible to personal contribution to make, tion, and student sentiment.employ there students who
the institution. We hope to have and we would like to see the

choice." (Continued on page 7)
(Continued on page 2)
communication to understand­encouragement of this individu­
A~.:adcmically the two "stress ing having as a paradigm Chris­dialogue not competition as the tian ideals instead of options for k cy to learning."
lhc most pragmatic solutions 'The present testing and 

SLC works on rationale
which might negate moral obli­grading system and the course 
gation." by Bill Carter
orientation and academic struc­cedures and a report of the Hall some of the statutes of Indiana"It might not be pragmatic to tures breed competition. There­Last night's Student Council Life Board on the Hall Life law under which prosecution

allow all students the right to meeting centered around the
fore, we feel we must progress 

experiment. could be made against students.
Cusick said, Council's
live off-campus," toward radical academic reform continuation of the The meeting opened with the Shilts explained that the ration­"but it might be in the best' next year," Cusick said. efforts to present a report on the addition of Prof. William Egan as ale was merely an attempt tointerest of the individual stu­They would also like to see Hall Life experiment to the a member of the Council to fill translate the long list of legaldent. Or it might not be prag­extension of the pass/fail sys­Board of Trustees. Included in the spot left vacant by the re­entanglements that could possi­matic to admit students who do tem, the creation of an all­the proceedings was a rationale signation of Prof. Bernard Nor­bly arise into a form that theminimal academic

not meet re­~.:ollcge major, and the immedi­offered to explain some of the ling. Prof. Egan is from the students could immediately un­(luirements of the institution, ate forn~ation of an experi-legal background on parietal pro-
College of Business Administra­derstand and thus become aware tion and will serve as a faculty of his rights. Student representa­
representative on the SLC. tive Ted Jones objected to the The agenda opened with a motion, declaring that it motion from fr. James Shilts, "smacked of paternalism" but 
Student stabbed pursuing youths 

Campus security anticipates arrest 
rector of Farley Hall, that the the motion was passed with only by Tom Bornholdt Council adopt the rationale for two nays. A Notre Dame student was security has very good informa­handbags were stolen from the parietal procedures that he had Fr. Edgar Whelan then pre­found severely stabbed behind tion, and is anticipating an drawn up as the formal rationale sented his report on the Hall
'basement of Alumni Hall, and the ACC building at 8:10 Sun­apprehension. As of yesterday, were later found ransacked in to be presented to the students Life experiment. Fr. Shilts then in explanation of some of the
day night. The studnet, Michael Izzo was listed as being in fair Dillon Hall. A brief case was moved that the report be adopt­I zzo, suffered a one-in~.:e cut in condition, and is expected to stolen from the ACC during the legal consequences involved in ed by the SLC and sent to the his abdomen, plus two punctures recover. the parietal system. The ration­Board of Trustees along with
weekend. 

in his bowels. He was taken to Pears also revealed yesterday ale, which Shilts stated should any objections expressed by
Two students were found by 
be disseminated to all the resid­

St. Joseph's Hospital, and that there had been a rash of campus security on ''Bad trips'\ other council members in a min­ence halls, dealt largely with
operated on on at 10:00 Sunday vandalism the lots ority report. James Burt­
in parking i.e. ill reactions to LSD. One was Fr. 
possible problems surrounding

night. In an interview yesterday, over th weekend. One car lost its taken to the infirmary. chaell spoke in opposition to the Indiana state law which might be
Pears felt that Izzo had been vent window in the D I lot. A There were numerous inci­motion saying that most of the incurred as a result of the social
stabbed by two youths who. radio antenna was snapped from Council members had not had
dents of vandalism in the halls 
conditions arising from parietals.

were tlecing from a building a vehicle in the Same lot while time to read the report. He
over the weekend. Windowpanes 
Most of the Council members

monitor in the ACC. The moni-tires were slashed on two cars in moved to table the discussion on
were obliterated in Morrissey tor was escorting the y.ouths out the C2 parking lot and on six Hall on Sunday. A railing was agreed that the students should the report until the meetin~ next be provided with the facts of the
of the ACC, after he had cars in the C3 lot. week.
broken in Stanford Hall. A stu­
legal situation for their own wel­

stopped them from removing a On Friday night, a tape re­Fr. Whelan protested that he
dent from Morrissey Hall was 
fare and that of the University as

fire extinguisher. It is believed corder was stolen from the had been charged by the SLC to
apprehended by students of 
a whole.

by campus security that lzzo office of the SBP. The recorder draw up the report and had
Dillon Hall last Saturday. The 

Some of the student represen­two so. He
had seen the youths fleeing, gave is the proverty of NROTC. A spent weeks doing
student was going through the 
tatives felt that the rationale was

pursuit and was slashed when he coat was stolen from Stepan hall on a destructive spree, rip­said that it was imperative that caught up to them. Campus Center on Saturday. Three SMC 'ping off fixtures and ashtrays. incomplete in that it omitted (continued on page 6) 


----------------. 




Hall Presidents discuss variety of problems 
by Steve Lazar Statuatory rape, drinking, vio­lence and room picks were the subject of discussion at the meeting as the HPC prepared to draft reports concerning hall life for the Student Life Council and Board of Trustees, at their meet­ing last night The report for the Board of Trustees is to deal with parietal hours drinking, and the hall staffs, that is, rectors and resi­dent assistants in each hall. The 
SLC want information about parietal hours and drinking. 
The problem with parietal hours, as the Council sees it, is that high school age girls can easily wander in to the halls to find alcoholic beverages readily available to them, as well as students interested in sexual "familiarities." According to In­diana State law, if a girl fifteen years old or younger accuses a student of having sexual inter­course with her, there is little he can do to defend himself. 
"If the girl (a minor) walks in someday with her parents or the law, and puts the finger on somebody-well, you've had it," explained one Council member. 

The problem with drinking could be equally serious. A stu­dent accused of supplying alco­holic beverages to a person be­low the age of eighteen could be charged with contributing to the delinquency of a minor. Such accusations could result in the 
Junior Parent schedule issued Discount 5th Dimension tickets 

Jim D' Aurora chairman of the Junior Parents-Son Weekend Committee, announced last night that all Notre Dame Juniors will have the oppor­tunity to buy an unrestricted number of discount priced tic­kets to the Saturday, March l4 concert-in-the-round given by the 5th Dimension. 
The discount tickets, which will be sold March 3rd and 4th at the Athletic and Convocation Center, are being reduced by $1.00 for the $4.50 and $2.50 sections only. D'Aurora said that all students can buy a maximum of two tickets at the reduced price, but that only Juniors can buy an unlimited number. 
D' Aurora also said that be­cause of the conflict in the time schedules of the concert and the Junior Parents-Son Dinner that evening, the Dinner will be moved back from 7:30 to 6: IS p.m. Also revealed at last night's meeting were the Saturday morning .and afternoon activities 
of Junior Parents-Son Weekend. 
During the morning hours, 
parents and sons will meet with 
the department chairmen of 
every academic major offered on 
campus. The department heads 
will present information about 
the academic nature of each 
major, and will also discuss 
career opportunities in each 
field. The schedule of the time 
and place each department head 
will speak will be given to each 
Junior at the time he registers 
his parents on either Friday or 
Saturday at the Center for Con­
tinuing Education. 
During the afternoon, stu­dents may take their parents to a number of panel discussions presented "to show them what Notre Dame is really like." 
At l :00 p.m. two discussions 
will run simultaneously in the Engineering Auditorium and the Center for Continuing Educa­tion. In the Engineering Audi­torium, students representing ROTC, conscientious objeciton, 
and draft resistence will duscuss 
STUDENT AUTO FINANCE PLAN 
No payments for ninety days! New or used cars 
to qualified graduating seniors. Lower payments 
available for first 1I3 of contract with nominal 
down payments. For more exact information, 
contact-
JORDAN FORD' 
609 E. Jefferson Mishawaka, Indiana 
Phone 259-1981 


INTERESTED IN 

Jim D'Aurora student attitudes toward the military obligation. The other discussion, at the CCE, will be concerned with the implications of co-education at Notre Dame, and will feature an Admissions Office representative, a male student, and a female student. 
At 2:15 p~m., i~ the Engine~~~ ing Auditorium, students will present a critical evaluation of education at Notre Dame. Also at 2: I 5 a panel composed of 
-bl k d h"t d
ac an w 1 e stu ents will discuss the role of minority stu­dents in the modern university. 
At all presentations, the parents and students, and all other interested parties, will be ushered by the lovely SMC .iulians. 
To close last night's meeting 
' ' 
D Aurora again emphasized that each Junior must register his parents in order to get the pac­ket of information containing the details for the weekend's activities. 
WORKING FOR THE OBSERVER? A WORKSHOP WILL BE HELD FOR ALL THOSE INTERESTED 
IN NEWS AND FEATURE WRITING. TOPICS WHICH WILL BE COVERED INCLUDE: 
STRUCTURE OF A"'NEWS STORY 
INTER VIEWING TECHNIQUE 
THE ROLE OF INTERPRETATION IN A NEWS STORY. 
THE QUESTION OF OBJECTIVITY. 
DATE. Tonight·
• 
TIME: 7:30-9:oo 
PLACE: 361 O'Shaughnessy 
Ca11 1715 for in formation 
intervention of state liquor a­
gents at large hall parties. 
The President's concern with 
drinking, though, was the de­
struction of property that results 
when students are under the 
influence of alcohol. One hall 
president felt that drinking was 
to be expected when students 
have little to do on a weekend: 
"You can't isolate drinking as a social problem of the halls because it's a natural way for the guys to let off steam. On week­ends when there are lots of social acitivities going they don't need to just sit around and drink," he said. 
A problem that increases in 1 potentiality with the indulgence of heavy drinking is physical violence, they thought. Alumni Hall, often plagued with racial tensions, has seen a number of fights occassioned by intoxicat­ed persons from town. The hall president, Tony Scolaro, expres­sed the need for a security guard on weekends rather than only a 
fire guard. 
Another problem confronting the halls is that of room picks. Carroll Hall may by forced to close its doors to undergraduates . next year if the University turns the building over to graduate students. This would mean that as many as 70 students would have to find other accomoda­tions on or off campus. With the 
towers and a few other halls already overburdened with stu­dents, the displaced Carroll re­sidents would come near the bottom of the list as far as room picks go. 
At the close of last night's meeting, HPC chairman Tom Suddes invited anyone with a specific concern about parietals or drinking to come to tonight's meeing at 10 pm in the Student Center Amphitheatre. Student o­pinions on these subjects would be very helpful to the HPC, he stated. 

More SMC housing 
by Prudence Wear 
SMC News Editor 

The Student Affairs Com­mittee was unable to finalize a proposal for Off-Campus Hous-· ing last night, and will meet Friday to attempt to resolve the issue. 
At last week's meeting, two proposals were presented; one was formulated by the Director of Housing, Mrs. Petrovich, and the other by junior senator Carol Cusick who has been working on the Committee for Off-Campus Housing. The committee mem­bers were to study the proposals and begin discussion last even­ing. 
At the beginning oflast night's meeting, Carol stated that the basic difference between the two proposals was that hers allows sophomores, juniors, and seniors to live off the campus, where the other applies to only seniors. 
In addition, her proposal con­tains fewer rules pertaining to social and academic standing and eliminates the rule which pro­
hibits male residents in the hous-• ing areas. 
Carol said of the last point, "this proposal has an orientation to the student's freedom to act in a way reflecting only personal principles or those of her family. 
A motion was made to con­sider the proposal of the Direct­or of Housing and was defeated. 
The motion to consider Cusick's proposal point by point was passed and a long discussion of the first point followed. 
At the end of the discussion, one of the members suggested that the committee meet again this week. She noted that the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees is to meet on March 14 and before that time an Off-Campus Housing proposal had to be sent to and passed by the Student Affairs Council. There will be an overflow of approximately 110 students next September and the decision must be made as to where the college will house them. 

Favor SMC 

Student Union 
(Continued from page 1) 
wouldn't have to apply for stu­dent aid." She thought that students might fund the building by selling bonds to the commu­nity and South Bend which would hopefully be tax deduc­tible. · 
Cusick is a 20-year-old junior Government major from Pitts­burgh, Pennsylvania. Her sopho­more year she was on the Stu­dent Academic Committee. This year she has been a student representative to the Student As­
sembly and the Student Affairs Committee. 
A Humanistic Studies major from St. Charles, Illinois, 20­year-old Suzie Way was Treasurer for her class last year and president this year. 

THE KING IS TAPPED WEDNESDAY NIGHT 
$1.00 I pitcher 


Al EITHfR 




PIZZA HlJ'f 
NUMBER I NUMB~~ 2 
Across The Just 1 Mile East River From IU nf Notre Dame Out Edison 
288-6060 233-3827 

7118 OBSERfJER.

TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 1970 PAGE 3 
Nutting speaks on academic reform 
Dr. Willis D. Nutting, profes­sor in the General Program at Notre Dame, will speak at 8:00 PM in the Library Auditorium on Wednesday, March 4. Nutting will lecture on "The Free City", the title of his most prominent book. Nutting has come to prominence on the campus during the past few weeks as a group of students have begun a campaign of "Nutting for Presi­dent" of Notre Dame. The students are urging the Univer­sity to adopt a Chancellor­Pr~:sident system, by which the Chancellor, Rev. Theodore M. H.esburgh would handle external affairs while the President would be responsible for internal affairs. 
The popular Nutting will be the second of a series of lectures on the question of Academic Reforms. The first lecture was delivered by sociologist and critic Paul Goodman who spoke on "Contemporary Mis­education in America." Whereas 


Senior Bar faces debt 
Senior Class President Jack Similar evenings will be plan­Crawford reveal~:d yesterday ned for the faculty of the other that the Alumni Club was $ 1000 colleges in the near future. in debt and "in real jeopardy." Crawford ended with a plea 
"for more students to dr~:am up new ideas, like the Faculty­"This is the first year the Senior Night, to make the Club a 
Alumni Club has operated for profitable venture." 
the entire year on campus," Goodman concentrated on ele­mentary and secondary educa­tion, Nutting will focus on higher education as he did in The Free City. The lecture will also give people an opportunity to hear a man, who has been promoted so rigorously for the presidency of Notre Dame. 

Nutting was born in Iowa where his father was a professor at the University of I ow a; Nutting him~df earned his B.A. from Iowa and studied at Ox­ford as a Rhodes Scholar, where he received his B.A. and B.Litt. degrees. He then attained his Ph.D at the State University of Iowa. He has been a professor at Notre Dame since 1936. His special studies have ranged from agrarianism to an examination of popular religion in the Orthodox 


('11Urch of modern Greece. In addition to the Free city, he has written How Firm a Foundation, The Reclamation of Indepen­dence and Schools and the 

Means of Education. His wide diversity of academic activities have been amnifested in the var­iety of courses that he has taught: theology, history and the classics. One of the more noted events of his career was a televised debate with Ara Parse­ghian on the relative merits of football 
stated Crawford. Crawford con­tended that management of the Club is being closely watched by the University. According to the Senior Class President, the Club is "on trial." If it fails, Crawford said that the University will give it to the c;su or the University Arts Center. "Should the financing of the Club fall through," Crawford said, "the dunes excusions and parties of Senior Week would be charged-for events or cancelled altogether." Crawford traced the Club's deficit to a regular turnout of only 600 regular members. He estimated "at least 1,000 stu­dents" are needed to "make this year's Cluh a success." Crawford gave reasons why he felt there was such a small turn­out. Many, he noted, have kept away because of the new pari~:tal hours, drinking regulations, the past image of the Club from "former yea~," and a lack of SMC girls. Crawford said that he felt that the $1,000 spent in redecorating the Alumni Club during the sum­mer and lht! managem~:nt of Randy Harkins have "tra­nsformed the Club." He there­fore encourages "more SMC girls without dates" to come and "look it·over." "The !'acuity-Senior Night, a recent innovation, proved a huge success" said Crawford. "About 40 professors and their wives informally met with the stu­dents" and "had a quiet, enjoy­a hie evening."  urFar rtngs people together. The Jade East manifesto. Its aim: to of skirmishes, territorial gains and conquests. bring men and women all over the world And stiII keep the peace. closer together. Just put some Jade East on your face Our policy would allow for all sorts and neck. And anywhere else. If you've got a girlfriend, take her out as planned. If you're seeing a few girls, do whatever it is you're doing. Now comes the best part. Since all girls are different, all readions will be different. Some will be aggressive. Others, submissive. But whether our policy leads to final agreement or not, one thing's for sure. The negotiations alone wi II be worth the price. Jade East Make love, not war. 
TO OUR  
ADVERTISERS:  
Deadlines for display ad­ 
vertising is 48 hours prior  
to the date of publica­ 
tion.  
Copy may be brought in any  
time up to 2:30 the day  
before publication.  
The Observer is published dailY  
during the college semester except  
vacations by students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and St.  Jade East After Shave and Cologne.  
Mary's College. Subscriptions may  
be purchased for $8 from The  
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame,  
1nd., 46 556. Second class postage  
paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556.  




Letters to the Edito·r 

Integration  now  Whoever is responsible for the  tion  movement  which  totally  
Editor:  sidewalk  plan of this  university,  belies the serious nature of the  
The University's policy of bussing to achieve integration (of the sexual variety) should immediately be abando....,d. Only token co-education is avail­able via bussing, but this token co-education is not enough. As is widely known, the Supreme Court has ruled that segregated education is by nature inferior education. Because five of my six classes are not co-ed, I have  especially the sidewalks on the east campus, must have been in love with parallens and perpindic­ulars. Our campus is full of them. Sidewalks meeting at 90 degree angles look splendid on a piece of paper, but when applied to a landscape, especially a campus, they can result in a concrete disaster. Planners are too often concerned with the beauty of the location of a sidewalk, rather than  metamorphosing identity and role of the woman in society today. If he could somehow transcend his present ~dolescent state of mentality then he could analyze the principles of the liberation movement as the serious social force it is striving to be, and not as a modern group of tea-partying hopefuls for the Suffragette Ail-Star team. His logic is not unlike a  
spent $35 00 this year to get an inferior education. As the ulti­mate solution to this type of problem, President Nixon has  ,!Vith its primary function. A good example of poor plan­ning is the path that exists now between the corner of Breen­ man who knows nothing on a topic except that he has the right to have his say ... "I may not be qualified, but I am qualified  
endorsed the concept of neigh­borhood schools, and I can only agree with him. Notre Dame, an inferior complex, must rid itself of this inferiority be developing into an integrated neighborhood school. In other words, co­educate the dormitories. Tom Hufendick 419 Breen Phillips Off the grass Editor: We have taken Fr. Lochner's suggestion to heart and decided to stay off the grass. Now we will be forced to utilize the mainline route. We realize that this may be a bit painful at first but after the initial job of it has worn off we are sure we will reach greater heights of euphoria on our trips across campus. These trips will now take on more meaning for us as we grow to appreciate the high quality of Notre Dame grass. Perhaps our decision will needle the Phys Ed department but it will add speed to our maturation process as our Jives reach a new peak. Lettuce have peas & mush­rooms Ever devotedly your in Notre Dame, L. Emmet Ballantine 306 Badin Hall Poor planning Editor: Referring to Rev. Robert J. Lochner's letter in The Observer of Feb. 25. I have for sometime been meaning to write the Observer concerning the marked increase of trodden footpaths across the sprawling green lawns of Du Lac. Rev. Lochner's Jetter, however, completely misses the point. He seems to place the blame for these depreciating lawns on lazy students. I must dispute this. If anybody is to blame it is the  Phillips Hall and the side doors of the Library. It seems quite absurd to me that somebody didn't forsee such a path when the Lib­rary was being built and put a sidewalk there. True to form. however, sidewalks were layed in a handsome grid pattern, resulting today in seldom used sidewalks and an ugly dirt path across the lawn. Why doesn't somebody put a sidewalk there? The Adminis­tration plants new grass there every spring, only to have it tram­pled again. I guarantee you that less grass would be ruined if side­walks were placed where they should naturally be. I strongly urge Rev. Lochner to redirect his berating comments toward the peiole responsible for the poor planning rather than at the "lazy" students. And if Rev. Lochner is ser­iously concerned with the deprec­iating beauty of this campus, perhaps he ought to concern himself more with th'e Ellerbe dynasty that is turning this campus into an architectural nightmare, rather than scattered patches of trampled grass. Even beautiful lawns won't improve an ugly, poorly designed building (i.e. our famous picture postcard grain elevator turned library). Think about it. Sincerely, John W. Kuhn Opinion please  to give my opinion." Sincerely, J. Kelly Flynn 308-229 Howard Hall Communist plot Editor: Leaders of the Union of So­viet Socialist Republics have bragged many times that Ameri­cans would pay for their own destruction. These leaders, for fifty years, have been marching to victory. Every American has had the opportunity to discover that riots, racism and hatred were importations from Moscow by way of Cuba. Despite this, they not only coddled the criminal but, like Pontius Pilate, dare to ask sacriligiously, "What is truth?" The truth is that Communism is winning. Last night at the Auditorium in the Department of Education on the Ole Miss Campus, I heard a member of· the North Mississippi Legal Ser­vices which is funded by the Office of Economic Opportunity openly encourage revolution Marxist style circa Russia, 191 7. American taxpayers pay this black racist's salary. Tonight, I can attend a local theatre and view a Paramount Picture, "If" which is beautifully made, deceptively lethal. It is a film which has found a great receptive audience among cam­pus revolutionaries. Its story mixes fact and fantasy about rebellion at a military school with emphasis on nudity (male and female), brutality, homosex­uality and violence. The film's climax -a murderous revolt depicted by youngsters slaughtering their parents and school administrators who repre­sent an unyielding and unchang­ For my next trlck, fWill make so,&RJ men &sapP6hn Vietnam and reappear in Laos! Ted Price· Stick to campaign issues Spring is coming to the Groovy Midwestern Catholic University. And with the return of warmth and beauty will come the inevitable reawakening of student idealism in the campus elections. Five candidates have already announced and other machines are being ginned up. There will be much talk of community and student rights and sophomore cars and the whole nine yards. Then we'll elect someone, and turn to more important things like frisbee on the quads -and if the freshmen don't decide to recall the SBP in October, campus politics will be forgotten for another year at Notre Dame. But before this mass student catharsis, think back on the outgoing administration and the ones that preceded it. What has been their worth? Or, more properly, what have been their accomplishments? In the closest election in the history of student government, Phil McKenna beat John Mroz after weeks of debate over the meaning of the word "community." Now, he leaves office after a colorless year of minimal accomplishment. As Mayor Lindsey's song goes, "Where Has the Charisma Gone?" Maybe it's gone to the Student Life Council. Maybe, but I doubt it. The SLC has certainly been the focus of whatever progress Notre Dame has made in student life. But at the same time, it has permitted itself to become bogged down on larger philosophical questions. Sadly, student life is not a larger philosophical question. It is a day-to-day problem which is much Jess fun to deal with than the Burning Issues of Our Times. When Minch Lewis organized the mass "sleep-out" on the quads to force the abolition of the lights-out rule and bed checks, he was not debating the Great Issues. When the student senate, under Chris (believe-it-or-not) Murphy abolished coats and ties at dinner, they weren't talking about Larger Societal Problems. Two small steps, in retrospect, but they weren't so unimportant then. Face it: since student government has begun its quixotic tilt with society's windmills, the Student Life Council has taken over the job of resolution of campus issues. And its performance has been frighteningly poor, as Prof. Norling's bitter resignation statement pointed out. Maybe this is the way things were meant to be: student government being a forum of in-group members thinking radical thoughts with no action to back them up -except, of course, a financially solvent student union. Progress will be made by the Student Life Council but only when it cares to take a break from decisions like Red China's admission to the U.N.  
planners, whoever they may be, who layed the sidewalks down in the first place.  Editor: My reaction to Dave Lammers' article "On Bra Burn­ ing "system" has prompted the American Jewish Committee on Motion Pictures to warn that "If" . . . might be "misinter­ Maybe that's the way things are supposed to be. But if so, I'm not paying my student activities fee next fall. On the other hand, student government could seek to overcome its growing superfluity. It could realize its true role.  
The shortest distance between two points is a straight line. When hundreds of students a day travel between these two points, it seems natural that a sidewalk would be placed along this path. Such is not the case at Notre Dame.  ing" is to question his intelli­gence about his subject. Even after his admission of ignorance through a subtle command of tlt'e English language quite peculiar to Observer writers, he proceeds to a "more intricate analysis" of the women's Iibera­ preted in the U.S. as a desirable solution by extremist American youth in revolt on the college campus." Yours sincerely, Patricia K. Fawcett 718 South 8th Street Oxford, Miss. 38655  And student government's true role must be the vigorous pursuit ofstudent rights in campus issues. Student government must lower its sights, however reluctantly, from Vietnam, the draft, pollution, Spiro Agnew and other national evils to some campus evils. Mundane things like protesting Fr. Riehle's ruling on moving off-campus, instead of a handwringing statement about Riehle's rights. (Riehle's rights have been well provided for, I'm sure. Student  

Business Mgr.: Bruce Reick Ad Mgr.: Bruce Barker News Editor: Glen Corso  Photography Editor: Mike Murphy Night Editors: Dave Bach, John  The opinions expressed in the editorials, news analyses, and col­ 
Asst.  News  Editor:  Jim  Knorr  umns  of  THE  OBSE AVER  are  
Holsinger SMC News Editor:  Prue Wear  Layout Morrison  Design:  Mary  Chris  solely those of the authors and editors of THE OBSERVER and  
Associate  Editors:  Cliff  Win­ Layout:  Ann Conway, Jeanne  do  not  necessarily  reflect  the  
trade, Jeanne Sweeney, Ann Con­way Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Features Editor: Dave Stauffer  Sweeney, Patty Lipscomb, Therese Darin, Tom Law Headlines: Jim Graif Ad Layout: Jim Flanagan  Ann  views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administrations, faculty, or stu­dent bodies.  


rights have not.) Things like meaningful reform in the dining halls, instead of gripe cards answered several months later by form letters. Things like a guaranteed stabilized tuition. (If University finances have run into a deficit, why should students have to pay for it?) 
Up to now, student government has been too busy for such trivia. But maybe their workload can be lightened if they leave national politics to the campus chapters of the national political fronts. Lord )cnows, we have plenty of these, from YAF to SDS. Student government could then have time for student issues. 
So bring on spring, and bring on student elections. But don't ask me to vote here and now on the evils of American society. I'll do that in November's national elections, thanks. 
Anyone for frisbee? 

Ted Price, is a former OESER VE'R Campus Editor doing this guest piece.-ed. 
The American Scene: Absurd and relevant 

hy David Allen Edmonds 
Thc letter is A. 

A as in Absurd. Absurd as in the ND-SMC produdion of Edward Albee's 71ze American Dream. Albee's play is a modt:l of absurdity: it shows the contra­dictions of life through a hollow plot line and figures that arc caricatures of real people. There is not much a director can do ext:ept to accentuate the inherent absurd-ness. 
This is exactly what director William T. Byrd has done. The American Dream is set in an apartment, and Byrd's concep­tion of this is a primary-colored vinyl monstrosity, filled with inflatable, plastic furniture. Albee would love it, for besides reflecting absurdity, Byrd has created a motif of plasticity that grounds the play in contempomry America. This plasticity is also carried through in the costuming, as Daddy wears a black vinyl suit, and Mommy is covered by a picnictablecloth dress. 
Byrd has done an excellent job of directing his actors. They bring out all that the author intended, and perhaps more. Daddy (Francis Donovan) is the perfect whimpery husband, sitting in his easy chair (plastic) wringing his hands, and saying "yes, dear, whatever you say, dcar." Jean-Marie Meier's Mommy was marvelously bitchy. From the reactions of the audience, I wasn't the only one who wanted to belt her one right across the mouth, and that's what the part is supposed to do. Iler posture and overall carriage was perfect and a credit to her talent as an actress. Rita Gall succeeded in convincing the audience that Gramma was the only one in the play with any sense, and I espet:ially liked her peace medallion. Christine Hall, well, what can you say about Christine llall? Her Mrs. Barker was simply searing and her stage presence was simply titillating. 
Every detail of Chuck Amato's Young Man added to the desired. His muscular physique was deeply tanned, topped with a too-blond head of hair and covered only with translucent white levi's. His hand movements, both when erect and when stiffly inserted in a chair, completely reflected the phallic-ness of his character. 
The letter is R. 
R as in relevant to today's racial tension, and relevant to The Death of Bessie Smith, the second half of the Theater's production. 

Realism might be just as good a label, however, as a different tack was used in this play. Byrd wanted to stress the tension of American life that is rooted in cast) did an excellent job in handling the Race. His set incorporated hard, straight, . Southern accent, making it effective, but vertical lines, and his props were, not ._not distracting. 
incidentally, either black or white. The use of multi-sensory media (slides and off-stage noises) served to concretize the action and to build the tension. 
Emotion is the sister of tension, and this was best brought out by Missy Smith in the role of the Nurse. She ranted and raved and succeeded in intensifying the production. Miss Smith (and the whole 


Dreams .... or nightmares? 

by Jim E. Brogan 
1/ostile, h/oodthirsty forces have seen to the printing of the following review. After noting the Brogan-less Monday fea­tures page, 350,000 raging Brogan devo­tees stormed the student center and demanded the head of the features editor. After learning that this individual had lost his head months ago, the angry mass agreed to settle for Tuesday afterthoughts by their impeccable leader. -Features ed. 
The combination Beatles, Doors. and Blood, Sweat and Tears, that we were promised by the Student Union last week arrived in all their glory last Saturday evening in Stepan Center. 
It was one of those small events to fill the long, cold winter nights that we had been promised for so many years. No gala affair -just a samll inexpensive happen­ing on campus. Another Woodstock, or so they claim. 
For many long winters the student body has gone into hibernation (or so it is also claimed) not to emerge again until the next football season. This winter was to be different: we could sleep while visions of a new student union activity danced in our heads. But when finally awakened in Stepan Center, we found that our hopes turned out to be only dreams. 
It has yet to be proved that six studio musicians, no matter how excellent each one was individually, automatically can make a super-group once they join forces. It takes a mixture of faith, trust, and unselfishness as well as talent and practice to make any sort of dent in today's musical world. 
Just because you once played behind an excellent group doesn't mean that your group will be excellent. Because you once played in the majors, doesn't make your present farm-club any better as a team. 
The Dreams were excellent musicians, . II th . d I can't pral·se.
espec1a y eu rummer.
h. h. hl h H s the best I 
1m 1g Y enoug · e wa
have ever heard in a live performance. He was not a great showman, he was not theatrical, but he could drum. And drum he did. Excellently. 
Each of the six members could play his 
own instrument and play it well. But as 
far as playing together, they had their 
troubles. A replication of the opening of 'the first set can be heard for free any afternoon outside of the band room, where. a number of student musicians arc practicing difficult tunes at the same time. 
They tried to imitate Blood, Sweat and Tears, even as far as the voice of David Clayton Thomas. An uncomfortable voice for the lead vocalist, who doubled on the bass. The organist tried his turn at imita­ting and sounded as if he were crossing the throaty screaming of a Jim Morrison,] and the bluesy-greased sandpaper voice of' a Joe Cocker. The whole group was· I obviously trying to be something that' they were not. The brass section sounded as tinny as the ceiling of Stepan Center' looks. 
But luckily, this didn't last. By the second half, they had stopped being :pretentious, and had settled down to making their own music. They showed great potential in their closing pieces with their combination jazz-rock. It was not .the commercial rock -then jazz -then rock forced mixture of the BS&T, but an honest effort at combining the two music 'forms and, best of all, it finally worked. 
But viewing the concert as an entity, we are forced to note that the greatest audience reaction was to the individual solos, not the whole group. They've already proven themselves individually, but we are still wondering if they can play as a group. Hopefully, someday, the six members of the Dreams will combine to be the Dream they could be. 

Jean-Paul Mustone turned in one of his 
· usual strong performances in the difficult role of the Intern. Warren Bowles as the Orderly was a convincing Uncle Tom, and Jim Hawthorne was good as Jack. Robert Rossi's fine portrayal of the Father was 
, marred by his pestering use of a cane. 
As a totality The American Scene of Edward Albee must be termed a success, for its method of production served to enhance its worthwhile message. Life were flashed onto a screen. The audience 
reaction was completely absurd -they 
applauded. This was not a curtain call, 
where the actor is shown appreciation, 
for the actors were not on stage. Only the 
images of the actors were there -when 
was the last time you clapped during Hie 
credits of a movie? · 
In Bessie Smith tension was generated; 
the play ends with the Intern slapping the ·Nurse. At this the audience let out a gasp and then snickered, to further release 
tension. 

But life is not only absurdity and t~sion, and Byrd shows us that he 
today is b~th absurd and tense, and the ·understands this by his overall technique. very selectwn of these two plays was During the production 300 slides are appropriate. . projected onto the walis of Washington A proper way to JUdge the effect of the Hall from five different angles The result 
d r · t · · · · 
pro ~c wn IS o examme the audience IS a moving collage, impossible to fully
·reaction. At the end of The American ' h d· d h" · · 
D h , . compre en , an t 1s 1s an apt expresswn 
ream t e actors names and p1ctures of the life that is typically American 
. 


PAGE 6 
In a press conferen~e yester­day afternoon, Pat McDonough, Student Union Academic Com­missioner announced that the Academic Commission would be from approximately $1000 to $3000 under their budget. 
Through February 11, when the commiSSIOn resubmitted their budget to the Senate, only $1 1 ,000 of their $ 18,000 alloca­tion had been spent. He stated that their financial situation is generally good, because of changes in their budgeting through the "encumbrance system," and a new system in choosing the commission's guest speakers. 
Although it had been the poli­cy of past commissions to bring in top name speakers, this year's commission chose instead to concentrate on the subject mat­ter involved. Under this system, McDonough commented, "we were able to budget ourselves in such a manner that we could present as many programs during the first semester as last year's commission did in the entire year and at half the cost." Thus, it has been possible at later times in the year to bring in unsche­duled speakers such as Dr. Spock and still remain well within our budget. 
McDonough however stressed that the overall situation is not entirely without its problems. It was at this point then, that he revealed that the Indian Confer­ence was the only event spon­sored this year that ended up in the red. He explained that al­though Bill Kurz and his com­mittee began this conference with the best of intentions, they were unfortunately taken advan­tage of by the delegates. In describing the resultant situa­tion, he stated that it was simply a case of "promising too much money, for too many people." 
Part of this situation was attri: buted to a lack of communica­
tion with the Academic Com­missioner, who at the time had only recently taken office due to the resignation of Pat Dowdall. Thus, while $2,400 had been allocated to the Indian Confer­ence, $5,000 was the ultimate expenditure, making this the most expensive event sponsored this year. Presently, then, the exact amount that the commis­sion will be under their budget is not known, and no further events can be added to this year's present calendar until this is determined. 

McDonough further revealed that although the Indian Confer­ence has at this point lost money, its chairman Bill Kurz is attempting to obtain federal funds to pay for part of its deficit. This may be possible, since the government has spon­The Student Arts Festival continues through the rest of the week in the Old Fieldhouse. sored a series of conferences of this type around the country, and our conference may thus 
Rectors to submit report
considered to be an extension of this project. In a brief survey of the past 
Fr. Charles McCarragher, , VP

(continued from page 1) SLC. He offered a motion in an
year then, McDonough revealed for Student Affairs, then an­effort to balance the opinion by that although the commission the Council have some kind of nounced that the Board of Tru­asking that the Council directcame into office in debt, report in the mail to the Board stees had asked that each hall the Hall Presidents Council tothrough tight planning and ex­of Trustees by March 10. Fr. 

rector send a personal letter to have its members send a letter to

cellent work by various mem­Burtchaell argued that the meet­the Board offering his evaluation the Board of Trustees outliningbers, it will be able to leave next ing next Monday would still of the parietal and drinking ex­their analyses of the hall lifeyear's commission with a sur­allow ample time to get the periments. Student Body VP Fred experiment.
plus. Among others, he singled accepted and corrected report in 
Dedrich immediately objected to out Mike Lynch, Associate Com­the mail. His motion to table SBP Phil McKenna amended
the fact that this letter invitation 

missioner was passed. Dedrich's motion to include the
had not been brought up in the direction that the Hall presidents include in their letter a com­mmentary on the effectiveness of the hall rector and the hall



Halls hold collections 
staff. It was then decided that 

. On Tuesday, March 3, the Farley, Fisher, and Flanner, all Some of the items Wall men-the general comments of the tioned were: HPC would be sent to the SLC
following halls wil l have col­three collecting through each $.10 treatment for a TB while the individual reportslections for the Thomas _=A. individual section within the l. 
(tuberculosis) patient for would go directly to the Board.
Dooley Foundation: Badin, hall. 

one day. The amended motion passed un-
Breen Philips, Carroll, Cava-· "The list of needs here is but a sampling of the things the 2. $.20 vaccination for one animously.
naugh and Dillon. Cavanaugh Foundation can use," Said child against small pox (5 At the close of the meeting,and Breen Philips will have a children for $1.) student representative Ted Jones 

spokesman Dennis Wall. "We can't sit for hours and make. 3. $.25 surgical dressing. , wished to make an open state-general hall collection, while the 
remaining mentioned halls will 

mentary on the effectivenesscollect through each section. On lists... there will always be 4. $.SO a needle and syringei ness of the SLC. "This whole 
March 4, these halls will have something ...what we desparate-for a penicillin shot to cure' ly need is money," he added. 
infection. business is nothing but jive,"collections for the Foundation: $.75 film for one chest Jones said. "All we do is come5. 
here every week and listen to 24 
x-ray.

APPLICATIONS ARE NOW BEING TAKEN FOR THE $1.50 sulfa pills and anti-people talk and talk and talk."
6. 

biotics to cure 3 children of Jones said he felt it was his duty trac)loma. (Trachoma is. an to tell the students about how
POSITION OF EDITOR OF THE OBSERVER 

enfection of the eyes often much time was being wasted leading to blindness if not trying to settle matters that con­treated.) -----==---------c_e_rn_e_d_th_e_ir_li_fe_a_t_N_o_t_r~e_D_a_m_e. 

FINAL FINAL 
THE POSITION IS OPEN TO ANY STUDENT 


TICKET SALES 
OF LvfRE DAME OR ST. MARY'S 

JUNIOR PARENTS 


-SON WEEKEND 
APPLICATION MAY BE MADE BY SUBMITTING A 

TUES, MARCH 3
STATEMENT OF INTENT TO 

WED, MARCH 4 
6:30 -9:30; BLUE-GOLD ROOM, 
THE BOP.RD OF DIRECTORS 
LaFortune
c/o·caetano M. De Sapio Editor-:n-Chief 
THE OBSERVER ' 

Tickets for: 
Box 11 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

-PRESIDENTIAL DINNER -COMMUNION
The statement should contain a resume of qualifications as well as a statement of the applicant's concepts of the role and direction of THE ORSER VER. 


BREAKFAST 
Applications must be filed by March 4. The applicant ~ill b.e required to meet with the Board for a personal mtervzew. · 


-SATURDAY 
AnnouncemPnt of appointment and acceptance will be made on Friday, March 13. THE OBSERVER'S last 


LUNCHEON' 
publicatio'n date under the present editor will be Wed­nesday, March 25. Publication of THE OESER VER will 

Also: "Fifth Dimension" 
resume under the new editor on April 7. 


Concert Tickets 
Tl~~~~~~~----------------------~~~~~Q·R~f.~~-·~~~~------------------------------·--P_AG_~--7 
Senators discuss their role 1n• the community 
Yesterday afternoon, a dis­appointingly small number of senators met informally in the Grace Tower pit to discuss the past future of the student senate and· student government as a whole. 
The feeling of the senators was probably summed up best senators cited a lack of under­by Stay Senator Pat Weber when standing and communication as he said, "The present structures the major causes of this, but lack are workable, but we have to of openness and honesty and an take our johs more seriously and insensitivity to people were also put ourselves into it more fully." mentioned. They felt that they 
The major problem at Notre must first break down these Dame was generally seen to be barriers among themselves be­the lack of c-ommunity. The fore they could help break them 
•

Frosh face computer exerc1se Provides insight to concepts 
What materials could be used to make a spherical bubble capable of traveling 35,000 feet down into the ocean without buckling or collapsing, and bouyant enough to float to the surface if the power failed? 
This is not a major problem facing research scientists, but a computer exercise for freshmen students majoring in engineering at the University of Notre Dame. Or. Stuart T. McComas, asso­ciate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, directs the introduction to engineering concepts course this year. 
Students arc taught the ele­mentary computer language FORTRAN, as well as the more advanced assembly language and the basic theory behind com­puter operation. For their final problem last semester, the fresh­men not only found the best materials for the bubble (glass, 
high  strenght  steel  or  high  
strength  titanium),  but  also  
calculated  how  long  it would  

take the shell to sink to 35,000 feet if weights were added, and 
McComas described the intro­ductory, semester-long class as basically a computer program­ming course that uses engineer­ing problems and concepts as examples. Its goals, he said, are to teach computer programming as an integral part of engineer­ing; and to introduce some engineering insights so that freshmen may gain some flavor of the basic disciplines -civil, aerospace, metallurgical, chemi­cal, electrical and mechanical engineering. "The computer is a basic tool for engineers today," McComas said, "as basic as the slide rule used to be." 
During his sophomore, junior 
·and senior years, the engineering student finds the computer a necessary tool in tackling his homework. By the time the student graduates, McComas said, he should have no fear of programming. 
The College of Engineering has its own computer primarily for educating its students. The cated needs of faculty research. The students punch their own cards, feed the machine them­selves, and retrieve the results within half a minute. In fact, McComas smiled, the "no-wait" computer is a luxury they may not soon find in adult life. 
Freshmen in previous semes­ters have learned to calculate simple moon-shots, solve ele­mentary reactor problems, de­sign electrical networks, and find the natural frequency of oscilla­tion for a tall building. 
Model UN 
The Model United Nations Committee is mailing to all dele­gates a 3 2-page delegate informa­tion packet this week. The book­let includes rules for the General 
Assembly  and  background  
material  on  a  number  of  the  
issues.  

The booklet also outlines 

down on a campuswide basis. Dame, but others questioned 
The role of student govern­this assumption. For instance, ment was discussed and the Fisher HaU Senator Jody Tigani question arose, "Can student felt that the students were not as 
government officials force their apathetic as everyone thought. beliefs on the students as they He said, "People won't come to have seemed to do in the past?" you. It's all a matter of going to The senators felt that student them. The senator has the job to 
leaders art representatives of the find out what people think." 
students, not their superiors, and This general theme pervaded 
have no right to force them to throughout the meeting. Sena­
do anything. "How can student tors and student government 
government further community officials in general must get off 
at Notre Dame?"-by increasing their pedestals, get back to the 
communication and by setting halls and talk to people. Only in 
example. this way will communication be 
Many senators cited the fostered and community fur­apathy of the student as a fur­thered. ther hindrance to unity at Notre 
·Respect right of individual 
(Continued from page 1) 
The candidates also hope for increasing hall autonomy in which the residents would be a hie to bring up and determine matters concerning the indivi­dual hall. These might include open dorms, when the rights of all individuals are considered, study areas, signout procedures, and possibly a judicial board. 
Both candidates see the possi­bility of a ND-SMC student union. Other plans include a call for more communication be­
tween the Student Service Or­ganization branch and the Stu­dent Assembly and Student Affairs Committee branches of government. 
Greater athletic facilities such as a gym and pool were also possibilities which the candi­dates cited. 
voice, Jean Gorman said "too many people feel there is not a channel through which they can voice their opinions. We hope to alleviate this by more active Hall Councils. 
The candidates hope to see a continuation of academic re­form. The Academic Commis­sioner will sit on the Student Assembly next year and this will increase communication be­tween the two branches. 
Greater involvement and more participation on any level, or in any way, not necessarily student government, are the goals of the candidates, in order to develop a community closely identified with the individual student. 
Congratulations

the time then needed to float to small IBM 1130 is capable of what issues will come under the Of great importance to Miss From the Brothers of Chithe surface if the weights were computing most small probleRlS, Sigma Alpha fraternity of u. ofjurisdiction of the three commit-Tracey is the individual's right.
removed. hut cannot handle the compli-Dayton for your NCAA bid to the tees of the Model United Na-One example which has not been 
Dayton Reglonals. we are organ­<ions. "The real U.N. has a wide defined and which should be, is 
izing a dance for students from 
competing schools on March 7,
h'•story publ;shed 

number of committees," said the right of personal privacy in 9:00 PM to 1:00 AM, Flyers'
L.aW 
Hanger on the main campus. Live
. Chairman Michael Kelly, "But regard to a student's room and 
band and beer. 
never achieved but remains a-I for the sake of simplicity and s1·gnout books. A centennial history of the . f participation by the students we On the subiect of student_ 
Admission $).50 

ways a goal to be stnven or, a r_.:::..:::._:;;:........:~~·=-;.~.;.::.=~:.....L-.--.---,~----:--::-:--1
Notre Dame Law School, com-. I d B t are combining them into three Student Unl"on AcademJ'c Commission
missioncd by Dean William B. goal which IS never reac le · u committees; the Political Sec uri­
it can be said that at the end of 

Lawless and written by the late the O'Meara era and the first ty Committee, the Social, Hu­
presents
R' Ph1'lt·p S Moore C S C has mani·tarian and Cultural Com­
cv· · ' · · ., · century of law at Notre Dame, been published by Notre Dame the law school reached the high-mittee, and the Trusteeship 
Dr. Willis D. Nutting
Press. est point on the curve of excell-Committee." "A Century of Law at Notre ence it had ever attained." Kelly also emphasized to dele-speaking on Dame" chronicles the history of Father Moore, a Notre Dame gates in the booklet that resolu­the nation's oldest Catholic law student during the Haynes era, tions for the General Assembly 
" The Free City " 
school from its founding in 1869 served the University through are due March 10 so that copies until the present. Its final chap-the years as a mediaeval scholar, can be ready for the first com­ter deals with the future and head of the philosophy depart-mittee meetings, which will be 8:00PM Library Auditorium plans fo~ transforming the ~aw ment, dean of the Graduate the second week of March. Reso­School mto the Notre Dam.e School, vice president for acade-lutions should be sent to Mike 
Wednesday March 4
Law Center. . Dean Lawle.ss IS~ mic affairs and academic assist-Kendall, 429 Lyons Hall. sending complimentary c~p1es of ant to the President. He died, Delegate Director Tim Walch the book to all law alumm of the having just completed this book, stated that there were still dele-
OBSERVER BUFFS 
University. on November 18, 1969. gate positions open.
After devoting a chapter to ~~~:..::::.:.:::.::...:..:::~::...:::..;~____..::::..._--=..____..:......._____1 

• We Need Your Help
"the early years," Father Moore 

THE OESER VER is in the process of completing its 
reports on five eras of Law School history corresponding to 
files and finds that it is missing some back issues. We the deans who presided over 

would like to compile complete sets of Observers so
Crdtsmen in Optics

them: Col. William Hoynes, 
we can have a permanent record of our history here 
FOR THE FINEST EVEGL~SSES

1883-1919; Francis Vurpillat, 
in the office. We need the following. Can you help?
AND CDNTACT LENf.ES -­

1919-23; Thomas Konop, 
Volume I 1966-67
TIIH SIIHRUND BL/1G.

1923-41; Clarence Manion, 
N0.5 NO. SO (March)
I 32 S. MICHIGAN ST.

1941-52; and Joseph O'Meara, 
Central 2·1468 

N0.6 NO. 54 " Appraising the Law School's 
1952-68. 
NO. 10 NO. 59 " first century, Father Moore 
NO. 12 (if we printed that NO. 67 (April) writes: 
~JltJUSe oJVaiOJt JtK. 

far) through the end of the NO. 68 (April)"It has been said that excell-1--------='-------­
Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.·· Chicago 


Year. 
NO. 78 (MAY\

ence is relative, dependingo-n 
Volume II . 19({] -68 NO. 79 (May
time and circumstances, so that 
Hair Styling the Continental Way-t.:uropean Layer 

NO. 1-21 (all of Sept. and Oct.) 
'what is judged to be excellent at 
Cut, Hair Coloring and Straightening-Specials for 

a given time may at a later time 
NO. 26 (NOV.) Volume Ill 1968-69
students

be judged to fall considerably 
NO. 29 (DEC.) 
Our Motto: "Have long hair and be well 

~hort of excellence. Perhaps it 
NO. 30 (DEC.) 
groomed"

is better 'tt) say that excellence is 
NO. 31-35 (JAN.) NO. 29 (OCT.)
For appointment call 234-0811

JOBSI JOBSI lind more JOB$f S~ 
NO. 39 (FEB.) NO. 62 (Dec.)
Continental Hair Styling


nts, Tuchers. Stllteslct. 11nd Intel'· 
·NO. 43 " NO. 83 (Feb) 
n..tlon111 Jobs. Recre11t1on..1 
...Jobi1 

306 Sherland Bldg.Vur-round Jobl1 Summer JObs..~AII 
NO. 44 " NO. 75 (FEB. 1 9) 
Corner Michigan-Jefferson 

~UPIItlons 11nd trlldes. Enjoy 11 v11~ tlon while you urn. Hurry! The 
NO. 45 " NO. I06 (March
Certified Master Stylists The Baron and Miss Treve to serve and .0. Box 475, Dept. CP 163-1. LocH;' 

Obi 11re tllken urly. Write• "JOBS•, 
NO. 46 " NO. 125 (April)
pamper you 
f. 95240 

7118 OBSERflllt TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 1970
PAGE 8 

Candidates could handle their job 
This is the fifth in a six part series in intluential commissions in both na­Rockefeller Foundation, and the without parallel in the University. And which members of the Nutting for tional and international affairs is a monetary-based alumni relationships this ability, so much needed in the President committee expound their position that Father Hesburgh is not at will allow. Realizing then that Notre Presidency, would greatly benefit views on why they feel changes should all uncomfortable maintaining. And it Dame is immeasurably precious to one Notre Dame. In a community which be made in the existing structure of is a job for which he lacks neither skill of its most charismatic leaders is a desperately needs to begin and con­
nor zeal. tinue a meaningful dialogue, both
the university. -ed. necessity for those who would suggest faculty and students believe that Nut­
Secondly, Father Hesburgh 's intense that Father Hesburgh redefine his rela­
The fact that the Notre Dame com­rapport with the alumni, and the ting would make this dialogue a real­
tionship to the Notre Dame com­
munity needs the Chancellor-President respect given him by this group, is munity. ity. Perhpas this is Nutting's strongest system is not the issue of this posi­immeasurably valuable to the Univer­point: he has the faith of hi:; fellow
A man who commands wuch wide
tional paper. But rather, let us suppose sity. Face it, growth demands financial professors and "fellow students."
respect in the Notre Dame glen of
that the community thinks it feasible stability. And the University has never Learning with Nutting 
academia, while possessing a distinct to employ such a plan. If such were enjoyed such financial support from understanding of a truly liberal The experience of learning withthe case, it would only remain to its alumni as it has during Hesburgh 's education, would surely be a serious Willis Nutting is greatly valued. Fac­decide which men would assume the Presidency. The man is remarkable. 
candidate for the presidency of this ulty and students alike reserve· a deeprespective responsibilities. The issue Since he has taken office Notre Dame university. respect for him. Of Nutting, Dr. Ed­then is whether, as the Nutting for has erected 20 major buildings costing Within Pattern for Educational ward Croni'h, an educator of consider­President Program maintains, Father approximately $50 million. Moreover, Growth is found the following: " ... able thoughfulness, says simply, "he isTheodore Hesburgh would be an ade­the University's endowment has risen that which is strongest in man is mind, my best teacher."
quate Chancellor, and Dr. Willis D. from $5 million to $72 million. 

and when a mind truly vigourous, Some may argue that Nutting's ageNutting an able President. 
Recently a critique of "blue chip" open, supple, and illuminated reveals prohibits him from being consideredFor a University with the complexi­commissions appeared in a Time Maga­itself, we follow it." Such is the mind for the Presidency. This certainly isties and accelerating, educational obli­zine "Essay." Father Hesburgh was of Willis Nutting. The words are those not the contention of those who know gations that Notre Dame fa<;es, finding cited as the representative for the of Father Theodore Hesburgh. Dr. Nutting personally. His years aretwo qualified men for the Chancellor­Roman Catholic populace of the Of a teacher, Gibran's The Prophet to his advantage. Not burdened by thePresident System should be a large United States. A noteworthy distinc­offers, "if he is indeed wise he does ordinary anxiousness that provesorder. But in Father Hesburgh and Dr. tion to be sure. Doubly so when one not bid you enter the house of his bothersome for not a few middle-agedNutting one has excellent candidates considers how seldom .jt is that one wisdom, but rather leads you to the men, Willis Nutting's age and wisdomfor Chancellor and President. man can, at the same 'time, represent threshold of your own mind." can only benefit this academic com­an ever-retiring religious minority, and munity.

Hesburgh's qualifications still maintain such a respected position Redefining the presidency 
Perhaps most blatant in the person­among the more secular folds of the
The rationale behind the motion for An examination of the capacity of ality of Willis Nutting is his tolerance. Hesburgh for Chancellor is twofold. American Republic. Willis D. Nutting for the Presidency of It is clearly remarkable, and often First, hi!r familiarity with both na­Some considerations to be dealt Notre Dame is now in order. Naturally disarming. But it is not a decadent tional and international commissions with in this motion for a Chancellor­for him to assume the role of President tolerance that some might fear. Nut­magnifies his penchant for sensing the President System are the attitudes of demands a redefining of the word ting is his own council: " ... though pulse of these select bodies. Throu'gh the two immediate candidates. Father "president." But remember, it is being my teaching method may often seem his advisory positions Father Hesburgh Hesburgh probably does not want to supposed that this community recog­like anarchy, it is really not. It is a would aid Notre Dame by keeping the become the Exchequer of Du Lac. nizes the need for the Chancellor­'regime of freedom' in which one is to University in contact with the emerg­Obviously enough he would like to President System. Thus, the redefini­develop intellectually and morally, ing trends and movements which are identify with Notre Dame in a more tion. perhaps with the help of my wider not the ordinary diet of academia. emotional manner than his dealings Willis Nutting's capacity for com­experience, but never under my Actin!!: as advisor to some of the most with the Civil Ri!!:hts rommi••i"ln the control."
munication and understanding may be 

•
Alumni, Stanford w1n
JIM MURRAY 

Alumni meets Stanford triple overtime. Dennis Garvey Tuesday night at 7:30 in the scored the winning buc:ket for first game of the best two out of Stanford. Bill Etter, Fred three series to determine the Swendsen, and Mike Monserel 1970 Interhall Basketball Cham­were standouts for Stanfclrd. pion. The games will be played Fritz Hoefer, Mike Kirby, and
Shades of AI Brown 

on the main court of the ACC. Terry Walsh played well in B-P's Sunday night Alumni beat losing effort. 
Panama isn~t really a country at all, just an lsmael Laguna is the newest ring tarantula Pangborn 55 to 54 to reach the isthmus, the colon of the Western Hemisphere. from the banana country there, and is only two finals. Don Reid sparked the It has fewer people than Philadelphia. It's about inches shorter than Panama AI but IS pounds Alumni team as they came from Weber elec:ted 
40,000 square miles of mosquitoes, narrow heavier and can pass a sputum test easily. So, as much as 13 down in the enough so they could dig a ditch through it when he first began to fight Panamanians second half. Jack Wiethoff Last Wednesday, February 25, with a steamshovel to connect the Pacific with became so excited that a brewery put up the added two clutch baskets for Patrick Weber was elected cap­the Atlantic Ocean. It is a shrimp boat republic, money for his first lightweight fight shot when Alumni in the closing seconds of tain of the cheerleading squad and its principal exports are prawns, bananas, he was only 20. He beat Carlos Ortiz to become the game. Bob Singleton, Dale for 1970-71. It was decided that cocoa, sugar -and prizefightars. the (then) youngest lightweight champion in Mitchell, Craig Stark, and Chuck there would be an additional 
Panama AI Brown was the greatest fighter history. But then, he traveled to Ortiz' home­Nightingale all turned in fine two girls elected to the squad for ever to come out of the Canal Zone, and land, Puerto Rico, for his first defense, and the performances in Alumm's team the 1970-71 school year. These probably the greatest bantamweight champion outcome was as predictable as Panama AI's victory. Mike Forbatko and girls will be chosen in the near there ever was. Panama AI fought 200 fighters defense against Sangchili in Spain 30 years Ralph Stepaniak were high future plus two members of the 
. and tuberculosis all his life. He lived to the ripe before. scorers for the losers with 16 Notre Dame freshman class will old age of 48. He was 5-feet-11 and weighed Ismael's next fight with Ortiz was in "neu­and 14 points respectively. have an opportunity to be sel­I 08 pounds and had a worse cough than tral" New York where Ortiz was so popular in Also on Sunday night Stan­ected to serve with the cheer­Camille when he first started fighting. He was in Spanish Harlem that he ran for alderman, but ford beat Breen-Phillips 61-60 in leaders for the next school year. the ring when he should have been in a 
when Ortiz retired and Mando Ramos won the 
sanitarium. 

lightweight championship, the Panamanian gov­Come Along fo Dayton·He was the most beautiful thing to watch in ernment, which is 9000 yards of braid and two action in the history of the game. He was a hard 
machine guns, put up a quarter of a million to hit as a rake handle. He didn't exactly fight 
dollars for Mando to come down to Panama an opponent, he sort of played him·like a piano City and fight Laguna for the title. -now the chords, now the melody, now an 
Mando was entitled to bring his won judges,arpeggio, and now a glissando. Eveiy fight was a magnanimity which probably had the reverse Notre Dame vs. Ohio University 

re~al. · 
effect of lulling him into sheer terror, and 
He was the toast of Paris where he went to Mando went over the wall after only a short live in the mid-20's. Great artists painted him. stay in Panama, promising to return -sometime Hemingway came to his fights. "You couldn't this century. It appeared to Panamanians that 

hit him with i right hand if you tied him to a Bus leaves 8 AM Sat. March 7
the U.S. Corps of Engineers didn't stamp out tree," they said of Panama AI. yellow fever altogether when they bUilt the He got beaten (it says here) by a Spaniard locks down there. named Baltazar Sangchili, who was nine years Laguna sighed, and packed up to come to 

$12 buys ride and a ticket
younger and nine inches shorter when they Los Angeles, where he gets only $10,000 for his 

fougpt _in Yalen.da in 1935. Sangchili had won title shot at Ramos (who gets $1 00,000) at the 75 fJ.ghts clear from Valencia to Barcelona Sports Arena next Tuesday. I have a feeling the out, when he came to New York, he lost his lightweight championship of the world is shortly· Tickets on sale at Travel Bureau 9 AM-4 P &hampionship (to Tony Marino, who got killed to be added to the natural resources ot Panama, 
in the ring a year later) and seven out of eight and, this time, maybe marked "Not for Ex-•••••••••••••••••••••••••••filzhts to end his careta. . port" by the guys wearing the pearl-handled

They buried Panama AI in Amador Guerrero pistols, and anyone who wants to go down and Cemetery in Panama City in 1951, and fighters get it will have to get his mosqu'ito netting and of Panamanian registry of whatever tonnage quinine pills and a copy of the life of Dr. 
just went around losing to tattooed sailors or Goethals and go after it. It may be as hard to Texas tech sergeants in Canal Zone smokers for get out of the country as the Gatun years after AI's last lung hemorrhage. 
Locks. 









