


by Bill Carter sophomore from Puerto Rico we emphasized in the campaign: and will direct a newly struc­getting things back into the 
In one of his first ofricial tured Human Affairs office, halls, organizing seminar groups functions as new student body which will focus to a large ex­or whatever just to get things president Dave Krashna an­tent on getting the forrign stu­moving in the right direction 
nounced his ~.:hoiccs for appoint­d~n ts at Notre Darr1e in to a within the halls." ment to his cabinet yestcrd<Jy wider role of part ~:;; 1 1ation in the Public Com­
For Relations afternoon. university. Krashna feels the ex­missioner Krashna has selected 
Chu~.:k Ry<Jn h<Js been ap­tensive work of ea~.:h individual Don Mooney assisted by John pointed Executive Coordinator, commission is too much a load Knorr. He pointed out that their a job which Kmshna called the for one man to handle and so a ffilialion with the different 
third most important in student has named assistants to each media on campus, Mooney with 
government. "Chuck is <J very commissioner. Rodriguez's assis­WSND and Knorr with The hard worker," Krashn<J said, "He llmt will he Dan Moore. ObserFer, would enable them to is a little older, having been in Krashna has chosen two soph­fill the important role of telling 
the service, <Jnd he is <J very omores to head the difficult the student body what the stu­stable individu<Jl. He will he the office of Academic dent government is doing. head of the cabinet." 
Affairs Commi~ion. Bill Wilka will Jerry O'Connor will be the The new Treasurer will he new Off-Campus Commis­
ad as commissioner and Bob Denis Conroy. Conroy spent this Meyers as his assistant. Krashna sioner, a job that Krashna said year working in the treasurer's said both have been very much entails a lot of work and thank­office and Krashna said he be­involved with the work of the less labor. O'Connor is uniquely lieved Conroy had the needed commission this year and are qualified for the job according experience to handle the compli­prepared to move the office in to Krashna because he realizes 
cations involved in student the direction he talked about in the problems of off-campus stu­government finances. his campaign. dents and can address himself to Orlando Rodriguez will re­The position of Research and their special needs. His Assistant place Krashna as Human Affairs Development Commissioner falls Commissioner will be Walter 
Commissioner. Rodriguez is a upon Tim Connor. Connor Szwarc.
2 sessions today worked on the commission this Krashna felt the role of the year and brings a number of new Community Relations Commis­ideas for expansion of the com­sioner has become an in· mission with him into office, in creasingly more important one
Model UN opens 
addition to helping complete and has picked Dave Schmidt to some of the work of his predes­fill the post. Schmidt hasby_ Don_ Ruane . . ~elly revealed that two of the tremely emotional clash between sors. Assisting Connor will be worked on the commission forI he fust sess1on ol the 1970 major Issues Will he seating the the two. 
Bob Ohlemiller whose primary several years and is very inter­Model United Nations General Red China delegation and media­Other important issues will concern will be in the vital area ested in developing further con­Assemhly will be officially tion of the Arah Israeli dispute. 
include a series of proposals of co-education. tact between Notre Dame and
opened at I p.m. this afternoon, There will he a Red Chinese 
from the South African delega­Krashna indicated that the the South Bend community. The
when Secretary General Michael shadow deleg<~tion of Joel Con­
tion concerning the future of Hall Life Commission will be Only freshman in the cabinet,Kendall addresses seventy-five nelly and Howard Dooley. 
that country, and a variety of one of the most important of­Carl Allison was chosen to assistdelegations in Stepan Center. Dooley represented Red China proposals for economic reform fices in his cabinet. "We felt we Schmidt because Krashna feelsFollowing Kendall's remarks, in the 1966 Model U.N. and 
in Latin America. needed dynamic people to work that as a black member of thec;cneral Assembly President Connelly represented Nationalist on problems of hall life and South Bend community, Allison
Michael Kelly will speak to the China. Kelly was particularly grati­
we've gotten dynamic people," best understands how to move
representatives. The Israeli Delegation in-fied by the participation of for­he said. " Commissioner Lee towards better ties between theThere arc three major com-eludes four Sahras (a native born eign students in the affairs of Fort has worked in Alumni Hall city's blacks and Notre Dame.
their country's delegations and and his Assistant Eric Andrus inmit tees that will allcrnately pres-Israeli), and the Arab Delegation 
particularly the Pan American tbc Senate toward the aoaJa that
enl resolutions to the general contains a large number of Arab (continued on page 3) 
assembly after the opening ltudeah. l(dJ f.-w a­
studeata. remarks and roll call. The com­mittees are the Truslt'cship com­mittee lu·alkd by Rich Hunter, the Political Securities commit­
ll:e d1rel'tcd by Kendall, and c;reg Tuu.a's Social, Human­Itarian and Cult ural committee. 
lht• committees met before !-"aster vacation to determine whid1 resolutions they would present lo the (;eneral Assem­bly. They have prepared a total of fourteen resolutions for review. Kendall said that resolu­tions rejected by the commillces Will probahly be submitted from 

Tim Connor amwna the floor after the fourteen major resolutions have heen dis­~.:usscd. Some of the resolutions l1s ted hy Kendall wncerned 
Effects of Massachusets law discussed 
arms ~.:ontrol, Latin 1\merka, the Mideast and the intervention of 
by Mike Chapin think we nave reached the point Army R.O.T.C. said, off the Constitution simply what
foreign powers into the affairs of mean 
where we were last October. record, that the law was bound they said, i.e. that Congress shall
other nations. 
Professor Charles McCarthy of There has to be another public to have a negative effect on the declare war, then it would haveCountries represented in the 
the Non-Violence Department outcry because really nothing soldiers in Vietnam. Lavin's per­to find that for the past eightModel United Nations were and Thomas L. Shaffer, Asso­has happened." sonal opinion was th at the men years some very prestigious peo­determined by the degree of ciate Dean of the Law School, Professor McCarthy felt that might think of Massachusetts "in ple (e.g. Johnson, Nixon, andparticipation of the real country commt:nted yesterday that the the Supreme Court would review a sense as succeeding from the the Joint Chiefs of Staff toin the United Nations, said Ken­new Massachusetts Law challeng­the statute, "because the statute union in the matter of the war." mention a few,) would not havedall. He also stated that the ing the use of U.S. armed forces is so public." Although Lavin could not make been 'upholding the Constitu­principal goal of the M.U.N. is in Vietnam probahly will never "But I do not think that the an official department statement tion of the United States' asre<Jiism, and delegates were ex­be resolved hy the Supreme Court will rule on the constitu­for the Army, he personally felt they took an oath to do."
pected to research their coun­
Court. tionality of the war. They'll just that the new law was a serious "You don't uphold the Con­tries' political and social hahits 
The new Ia w, passed last rule that the Massachusetts Law matter." stitution of the United States byto help allain this realism. 
Thursday, allows any Massachu­is unconstitutional. After all the "The law is a direct challenge prosecuting an unconstitutionalThe M.U.N. will meet for two setts citizen to refuse fighting in Supreme Court is hardly an ob­to the Commander in Chief's war. You can't constitutionallysessions today and tomorrow. 
any that a jective judge -it's an agent of the authority in matters of national collect taxes such as the surtaxSessions on each day will run conflict lacks con­gressional declaration of war. state. It's made up of men who security," he commented. and the telephone tax to support
from I p.m. until 4:40p.m. and Shaffer thought that the law 
knew and know how to ~ay McCarthy felt that the Su­an unconstitutional war. You
from 7 p.m. until eleven. Dele­significant "symbolic
will have their political cards," McCarthy preme Court is in a bind. can't kill 300,000 Vietnamesegates to the M.U.N. are volun­
said. "If the Court would happenvalue" because this was a whole 
(colllillued 011 page 3)
teers from Notre Dame, l.U.S.B. 
Colonel John J. Lavin of the to find that the words in thestate voicing their dissent. "Iand St. Mary's. 
VOL. IV. No. 101 SnrinJ the Nutrt? Dame aiiLI Saint !llano'.~ College 011111111111ity WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 1970 
Krashna appoints cabinet 



WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 1970
PAGE 2 
711B O&rERfR 

Contemporary poets are invited to Festival 
poets  Stuart  Montgomery  and  becoming  a  full-time  poet.  He  Greek  poet  Odysseus Elytis in  
This year the Sophomore Lit- Lee  Harwood,  and  American  founded the Fulcrum Press four  translation of his work.  
erary  Festival, being held from  poets  Allen  Planz and  Michael  years  ago  which  produces  the  Montgomery  believes  that  
April 12-16, hopes to introduce  Anania.  most  significant  international  every poet at  some  time has to  
the  student  body  to  contem- Stuart Montgomery is a twen­ poetry list in England or Amer- become  his  own  publisher,  
porary  poetry. Included among  ty-nine year old Rhodesian who  ica. Prior to this he spent some  arrdnge his own readings and be  
the guests attending are  British  qualified  as  a  doctor  before  t'me in Greece, workin~t with the  involved in his own production.  

PoIIUt .• 0 n co_·"fere"·c e •. 5 pIan ned -~:~e~l;;:t 1;:;~G~~:esn~~::~~~ 
by Steve Hoffman . In the hope that res1d~nts of the South Bend Area w1ll rea­
lize and ·work to counteract the dangers of environmental poilu­tion, the Michiana Committee for Clean Environment will sponsor a Conference on Envi­
ronmental Concern on Saturday • April II at the South Bend Public Library. The Conference, to be held from 9:30A.M. until 5:00P.M., 
Month of May 
Available for May 4 4 bedroom house sleeps 10 fireplace private beach on Lake Michigan near Warren Dunes State Park 

Call Mr. Christiansen: DAYS, Niles 683-5300; EVENINGS. WEEK­ENDS, (616) 42.6-4174 
wdl be free ?f charge, w1th fr~e lunches provided, and the pubhc is· invited to attend all or part of 
th 
e program.

The schedule of even_ts for the Earth Day Progr_am. mcludes a gen_eral_panel d1scu_ss1on on pol­lut10n m the envuonm.ent and ~hat can be ~one to discourage 
1t, t_o be chaued by Dr. L_arry Davis of the Notre D~me ~!Oio­gy Department.. Panelists w!ll be Notre Dame BIOlogy Professor, Dr. Thomas Griffing, Dr. Julian Pleasants, Ass't. Professor of Microbiology at Notre Dame, Dr. Wayne Echelberger, an authority of air pollution, and Dr. Philip Singer, a specialist in the field of water pollution. 
11-John Fonseca * Jim Balcerski Fri -Sat 

:aid of it " ... it's one of the Dr. Echclberger and Dr. Sing-most erotic things I've ever seen b th f the Civil Engineering · -also masterful suspense and
0 0
eDr, t t t N t e D me epar men a 0 r ,a •
teach the course Man and His 
Envi·ronment offered on ··ampus.
~ 
In add!.tl·on, Notre Dame Seni·or John Crump, a General Program maj·or, w1·11 speak on 
household ecology, explaining 
how each person can t1·ve w1·th­out polluting and poisoning the environment. 
Later in the afternoon, Dr. Donald Levy, a chemist from the University of Chicago who has spent much time organizing people to fight pollution and polluters, will address the Con­ference. 
The Conference will conclude with three workshops designed to educate the public on specific methods of coping with air pollution, water pollution, and ecology. 

Super-Elliptical! Splendid job!" 
A native of England, Lee Mar-wood has edited various maga­zines, the latest being Tzarad. He was awarded the Poetry Founda­tion (New York) annual award 
in 1966. He has traveled exten­sively in the U.S. and has given 
readings from his work in England, Denmark and the U.S. The latest of his four volumes of poetry, The White Room ( 1969) is widely acclaimed. Of it, noted poet John Ashberry has said in the Sunday Times of London, "It is carelessly wise, that is, wise without knowing or caring what wisdom is." 
Lee Har~ood bitterly admits that industrialism has nearly des­troyed the culture of the English countryside. In an effort to reaf­firm the balance between man and nature, Harwood dedicates himself, as a man and a poet. to the transcendental element of humanity. 
Montgomery and Harwood will be reading Monday, April 13 at 3 p.m. in the Library Auditor­ium. 
Allen Planz is a thirty-three year old native of New York who attended Hofstra and New York Universities. He has been active for several years in poetry programs in New York as one of the organizers of the St. Mark's Poetry Readings, and in readings sponsored by the Academy of American poets. 
Planz, who is representative of today's angry young writers, finds his poetry in the decay he sees characterizing America. He is also a political activist and as such his writing reflects the chaos and violence surrounding us and our apathy concernin~ it. Mr. Planz' poetry has appeared in many· magazines and anthologies including Chelsea, Chicago Review, Massachusetts Review, Poets of Today and Where is Vietnam. A selection of his ooet­
ry won the 1966 New York Y M-YMHA Poetry Center A ward and his first volume of poetry, A Night for Rioting, was recently published by Swallow Press. Mr. Planz lives in New 
(continued on page 6) 


Agnew may have to break tie vote 
WASHINGTON (UPI) bility that Vice President Spiro publican Marlow W. Cook of Today's showdown vote on T. Agnew will have to save him Kentucky and of Mrs. Margaret Judge G. Harrold Carswell looks with a tie breaking vote. Chase Smith, R-M"aine, were to be the closest on a Supreme Carswell's Senate opponents listed as the chief question Court n9minee in almost a · claimed yesterday they had the marks. Carswell's opponents said century-with a very real possi-votes to deny him confirmation if they won either vote the 
if they could pick up the vote of nomination would be rejected. only one more uncommitted The Senate debated other 
on your block when you 

Republican. But Carswell's matters the day after the 5 2-44 
come home with a lil'ing re­

supporters disputed their head vote against resubmitting the
plica of the Notre Dame 

count. nomination to the Senate Judi­
Mascot. The male in my life 

The possibility still existed ciary Committee. But through-
was a champion and I expect 

that Agnew could cast the vote out the Capitol, Carswell was a 
great things on I 7 April. If 

for Carswell that would break a chief topic of conversation. The 
you have $$ and desire write: 

48-48 tie when balloting begins atmosphere was that of the eye 
LADY KAY O'SHAY 

at I pmESTtoday. of the storm. 
Irish Terrier AKC 

A UPI poll showed 48 sena­With four senators expected
Box 65/Notre Dame, 46556 

tors publicy or privately wm­to be absent for Wednesday's mitted to vote against confir­vote, two on business and two in mation, or leaning that way, and the hospital, the .anti-Carswell
Applications now being accepted for: 
46 committed or leaning toward forces required 49 votes to supporting his promotion. defeat elevation of the 50 year In the intense nose counting old appeals court judge to a by both sides in the long strug­lifetime term on the Supreme


STUDENT UNION 
gle, the votes of freshman Re-rourt. 
If you're 18 or over make the 
ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR 
Due Thurs. April 9 

MINORITY STUDENT DIRECTOR 
Open Week days Must have 1 legal 
6:30 proof of age and Sat. & Sun. Student ID Card

ACADEMIC COMMISSIONER 
12:45 

Now thru April 14
SERVICES COMMISSIONER 

SOCIAL COMMISSIONER 
Due Fri. April 10 

COMPTROLLER (Treasurer) 
EXECUTIVE SECRETARY (Public Relations) 
In Application Include Reason Why You Desire Position 
Send applications to: Robert Pohl (c/o Student Government) 
Box 427 

Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 


WEDNESDAY. APRIL If. 1970 


THE .O&ri:RfiE& 
PAGE 3 




Effects of law discussed 
(continued from page I) 
civilians and drop more bombs on North Vietnam than in the entire Second World War in an effort to prosecute an unconsti­tutional activity (mass murder) without simultaneously bringing Johnson and Nixon to trial for war crimes.~· 
Shaffer explained that the court probably will not hear the case because it has ruled way back in the New Deal that a "state cannot represent a citizen as against the federal govern­ment. We are citizens of the federal government which is a iederation of states," he sai(L 
"This is what the whole Civil War was fought about," Shaffer commented. 
Shaffer also explained that in the past when other challenges to the war h"avc been brought before the Supreme Court, they have always failed to get the minimum of four members to want to hear the case. He said up to now only two judges have 
Profeaor Chula McCarthy 
usually voted to hear similar cases. McCarthy, however, saw the matter differently.
Reds attacked by Migs 
PHNOM PENH, Cambodia ( lJI'l) -Russian-made Ml Gs of the Cambodian air force joined a 
battle  yesterday  against  Viet  
Cong  guerrillas  in  jungles  I 2  
miles  from  the  South  Viet­ 

namese border. Cambodian· troops reported killing 40 Viet C'ong in fighting that started Monday night. 
Cambodian losses were placed at two killed and IX wounded. 
The combat was near the town of Chipou in Svay Rielilg province, the same general area where five newsmen, including two Americans, were reported missing and possibly captured by the Viet Cong. 
One oif the Ameri.can news­men was identified as Scan Flynn, a freelance photographer on assignment for Time Maga­zine. He is the son of the late movie actor Errol Flynn. The other was Dana Stone of North Pomfret, Vt., a camera man for the Columbia Broadcasting System. 
Military officials in Phnom Penh said an undetermined number of Communist troops started the fight by attacking Cambodian forces near Chipou in the so called "parrot's beak" 

Appoint editor 
Sophomore Steve Hoffmann a Government major from Lilt!~ Rock, Arkansas, has been ap­

pointed Observer News Editor t--------------J...._-----------------------------', for the coming year. Hoffmann, 

STUDENT UNION 
who served as an Assistant News Fdilor and reporter during the 


SOCIAL COMMISSION 
past year, will succeed newly-appointed Campus Editor Glen IS ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR THE POSITIONS OF: 
Corso. 

Assistant Social Commissioner 
Collegiate Jazz Festivai·Chairman 
Special Projects Chairman 
~~~~~~~~ Homecoming Chairman 
du~~~ the colle~\~~ester ~X~~~~ Grand Prix Chairman Mardi Gras Chairman 
vacations by students of the Uni· verslty of Notre Dame and St. 

Applications should be submitted by April 15 to: Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The 
Social Commissioner 
Observer, Box II, Notre Dam~>, 
Box 427
Ind., 46556. Second class post~ye paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
Notre lnd 

"The Vietnam War and the Laotian War have been going onregion which juts into South more or less for eight years. AndVietnam to a point only 35 for eight years people, almostmiles from Saigon. 
monthly, have tried to bringField reports said Cambodian actions that would get the courttroops, many of whom moved to rule on the constitutionalityinto the region as reinforcements of the war. And for eight yearsduring the past week, hurled the Court has very conveniently
hack the attack and counted 40 

stuck its head in the sand."
Viet Cong bodies when the smoke of battle cleared. 
McCarthy discussed the GulfThe town of C'hipou was of Tonkin Resolution as a possi­

virtually· deserted Tuesda~, 

ble declaration of war.
according to newsmen at the 
"Why not -anything will do-
scene, hut several miles to the 
east MIG jet fighter bombers flown by Cambodian pilots streaked over jungles at treetop 



WHEN DREAMS 
level to rake Communist posi­tions witH machine gun fire and bombs. 


COME TRUE 

Take 

by Father Jan
applications 
Applications are now being taken by the new officers of Student Government for the 

The story of a boy, a student, a
SMC Judicial Board. The posi­tions open are for one senior chairman, and three other sen­iors, two juniors, and one sopho­

graduate of the Class of '22. Learn 
more. The positions are appoint­ive. Applications should be sub­mitted to Jean Gorman, Box 212, by Thursday, April 9, at 
about old Notre Dame. 
noon. 
M un<:ie Ameri<.·ans 
ON SALE IN THE BOOKSTORE 
Rich Mathys -Fri. Phil Orth -Sat. 


FOR $5.00

America 

Ticket Manager Concert Chairman Promotion Director 

Business Manager 
if things get ~esperate enough wonder what the constitutionali­
the Court will tell the world that ty is of a non-declaration of war 
this straw is a sturdy elm. And at which was procurred by lying." 
least the citizen of the United McCarthy saw further implica­States will say 'The Court must tions of this Iaw. know what's constitutional'?' "Who knows maybe the Bcrri­There is an interesting tidbit gans and the resisters are not the here though. I wonder what the real enemies of the slate (crimi­court will do with all of Senator nals). After all, if the war is Fulbright's statements since De­unconstitutional, then the pre­cember 1969 where he has point sent heroes are the criminal and blankly said in the press and on the present criminals are the 
T.V. that he was lied to by the Heroes!" "' executive about the Gulf of ToJ1-"I suppose it won't be long kin incident and all the other before we see a bumper sticker eidence that now has been ac­reading 'My country, constitu­cumulated about the 'incident'. I tional or unconstitutional'." 




Cabinet appointed 
said delayed ap­

(continued from page I) he on that pointment because he intends to
Wall Williams a black junior revamp the organization, give ithas been chosen as Chairman of new direction and see exactlythe Recruitment Action Pro­what is needed in the racial gram. Williams has worked in the question on campus before he program for the past few years makes his choice for chairman.
and will have the duty of caring Krashna said the selectionsfor the needs of the freshman had been based on careful consi­group next year as well as deration of qualifications indi­heading an extensive recruitment cated in the applications he hadprogram for the next year. 
received for each of the posi­The new NSA Commissioner tions in addition to his personalwill be Steve Novak whose ex­contact with a few individualsperience in the association the who had impressed him withpast few years has given him special abilities and interests.

some idea of the benefits the NSA can bring to the campus. ,-----p----------. Novak hopes to increase those at Clinton benefits. 
Two positions remain unfilled This Weekend 
and Krashna indicated the ap-A mert·ca pointments will be made as soon as possible. He indicated that the 1---------=======t 
position of Judicial Coordinator could not be filled until the government learns exactly what the set up of the new judicial code will be. The other open position is chairman of the Stu­dents Against Racism. Krashna 
qs there 


aPaulist 
in the crowd? 
Believe it or not. a campus pro­test group is not an unlikely place to find a Paulist. 
Why? Because Paulists are the mediators of our time ... stand­ing between God and man ... understanding, helping, loving . .. trying to bring together the extremes of the world we live in and the Church. 
Wherever he is ... as a college chaplain, working in a ghetto or helping in a parish ... the Paulist is serving. 
If you're interested in finding out more about the Paulist priestly spirit. write for our illustrated brochure and· a copy of our Renewal Chapter Guide­lines. 
Write to: 
Vocation Director 
'Paulisth


'Pat erG 
Room 400 415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 

THE OBSER.fJER. WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 1970
PAGE 4 






THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. De SAPIO, PublisherDAVID C'. BACH, Editor 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANAFOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 
Editorial 

On April 2, the Massachusetts state can exercise their rights in the absence of a 
legislature declared that any servic_em~n congressional mandate. 
from Massachusetts can declme service m lt· is strange, then, that there should be fighting which "is not an emer~ency_" and speculation that the Supreme Court might which is "not otherwise authonzed m the refuse to hear this case. It is an issue that powers granted to the President as Com­calls for a decision, one v.:ay or the other, mander-in-Chief." that will be as authoritative as the Supreme 
At the heart of this bill is the fact that Court's rulings on school desegregation and the war in Vietnam has not been formally integration. declared a war by the Congress of the The bill can be construed as being United States. As Gov. Francis W. Sargent anti-Vietnam War. But if the Court decides of Massachusetts said, "The issue is that the President has wide discretionary whether and when, under our Constitution, powers in waging wars, it may once and for a citizen can be compdled to engage in a all answer the question as to whether the conflict that lacks a congressional declara­war is legal. The decision will influnce 
tion of war." further involvement by America in similar 
lt is, in short, a bill that touches the very wars. The question is not the bill itself. The foundation of our federal system. It seeks Court must hear the case and establish to determine to what lengths the individual guidelines. states, and, through the states, the people, 

Letter 

Editor: one side. Kunstler to come here and The appearance the At the very least, the Student preach revolution. Failing a sus­
on cam­pus of William M. Kunstler was a Union Academic Commission tained effort to balance their 
and the program for the study of programs, let these organizations
• fitting climax to a year in which non-violence ought to invite frankly acknowledge that what
those invited to Notre Dame to United States Attorney Thomas they are about is propaganda. Ifspeak on public issues were 

disproportionately representa­Foran, who prosecuted the the students care to accept it, tive of collectivism and revolu­
Chicago Conspiracy case, to that is their chouce. But we tion. Perhaps the students do 
speak at Notre Dame. This is ought no longer to pretend that not realize that they are being particularly so in view of the it is education instead of brain­
predominantly exposed to only extravagant fee paid to Mr. washing. Sincerely, Charles E. Rice Professor: of Law
dave krashna on • 
Editor's note: The Academic Commission has c9ntacted Mr.

Hall Elections 
Foran and the initial response has been favorable, but Foran(Editor's note: This is the first column by Student Body President went on vacation after the firstDave Krashna in an effort to further communication between contacts were made and his ap­Student Government and the student.) 
pearance is still indefinite. 

In the first of my columns I would like to begin by stressing an 
Mr. Kunstler's honorarium 

issue which is upcoming and will be vital to the success of Notre 
was $1000 and his appearance

Dame as a community in the forthcoming year. This issue concerns 
was not listed in the original

the upcoming hall president elections. The SBP election is over. 
SUAC budget. But by charging

However 1 hope the same excitement and interest will be shown 
an admission fee, SUAC was able 

towards these elections, and that these factors will result in th!! same 
to break even and meet the fee 

intense questioning of the candidates concerning how they plan to 
without affecting its budget.

lead their respective halls towards the goal of developing a 
Two years ago William Buckley
community. 
was paid $3000 but the gate

As has been stated quite frequently during the past five weeks, it 
teeeiPt6 did not corer hU fee. 

is hoped that a Student Forum composed of the elected hall presidents will be the essential body for student life at the University. As a result I feel it is important for everyone to realize that the people they elect will be in a position to affect their lives directly. I see student government as being correlative to hall government. It should be stressed that it will be very difficult to make student government an effective representative of the student unless you Cltn get to the fundamentals, i.e., hall life. 
The hall presidents as a group, I feel, will better co-ordinate each individual hall's actions into a total community action. These officers, in the unique position they will hold will better be able to sense campus opinion on all issues, and to better regulate the flow of communication between the student and student government. 
Let me condude with my feelings on the recent crisis in Alumni hall (not to necessarily single out Alumni as the majority of the halls have experienced or may experience similar situations). Unfortu­nately, the only time people sit down to discuss things is during a period of conflict. This is similar to a hotel fire where the only time the guests meet is in a sphere of self-survival. We have to get away from this "hotel" psychology and atmosphere. In keeping with the idea of a Christian University where people strive to be both human and Christian, the hall must be the basis for the all important factor 
Executive Editor: Dave Stauffer 
Business Mgr.: Bruce Rieck Campus Editor: Glen Corso 

of communication. I am hoping very much to implement this in all 
the halls to better enable the idea of a total community to come to 
News Editor: Steve Hoffman

the fo're. Very shortly after the elections, a student assembly where 
Ass't News Editor: Don Ruane

all students can be heard will be held. 
Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode,

The important issue now is electing good hall leaders not 
Ann Conway, Jeanne Sweeney

necessarily considering a student senate vs. student forum; so, I ask 
Sports Editor: Terry Shields 

you to look at the people and issues, question them closely, and select 
wisely. 
Glen Corso 


The SI..C 
Since its inception in the fall of 1968 the Student Life Council has done quite a bit towards changing student life at Notre Dame. Parietals, which except for football Saturdays were non-existent several years ago, may, pending the decision of the Board of Trustees, now be on the verge of becoming among the most liberal in the nation. Other students drink without fear of repris<tl. Liquor on campus, formerly banned, is nw legal in the r~)QmS of stud~nts over 
21. Car privileges are now open to all semors and JUmors, and possibly in the near future even sophomores. With the advent of parietals and a relaxed attitude towards drinking, coupled with the hall judicial system, the SLC has advanced hall autonomy tremen­dously. 
Now that many of the issues dealing with University regulations have been resolved, the SLC has moved into the larger areas of student life. They have considered Hall life, in the form of Father Edgar Whelan's report. They have also looked at University "complicity" through their committee investigation of the Place­ment Bureau. 
In both of these instances the SLC recommended courses of action which call for some rather drastic changes in University Policy. As of yet no action has been taken on the SLC's proposals in the Hall Life Report, while the most controversial provision in the report on the Placement Bureau was denied by Vice President Frick on the grounds that the University could not in good faith bar any Government agency from recruiting on campus. 
The SLC report on Hall Life recommended sweeping changes in 
the roles of the rector and the resident assistants. 
"If the University is to maintain a residence hall system, it will soon have to staff the halls with men capable of exercising those responsibilities demanded by the S.L.C.; these might include married persons from the faculty or graduate students." 
The SLC ha~ called for "twenty-one rectors who would actively involve themselves and specifically do so through leadership, advice, sharing their authority and providing pastoral counseling with liturgical service." 
The report also criticized the present University policy of using 
rectors who also have other duties, which preclude them from 
serving as full time rectors. 
"Moreover we cannot overlook the overextension of the work 
load and responsibilities of the present Rectors. Only two are 
functioning as full time rectors and both are serving as University 
Chaplains. The University demands the same professional competen­
cy of the Rector-teacher as his colleagues on the faculty. This is as it 
should be. But the same University appoints him to administer a hall 
and do so in specific ways. Could such blatant over taxing candidly 
be termed a cheap labor policy?" 

The questions raised are valid. If the University is to remain a 
residential school, then steps should be taken to insure the 
development of the halls into more than mere motels. Whose 
responsibility is it to act in this situation? The SLC can only advise, 
it cannot implement. If the bodies charged with acting (the 
administration and the Trustees) refuse to do so, the situation 
stagnates. 
I would like to advance the contention for discussion that the 
SLC is seriously crippled due to its inability to implement policy 
changes. If the SLC is to be a cogent factor in the creation of a 
community it should be given the power to affect change, beyond 
the superficial level of disciplinary rules and procedure. The only 
persons who should be allowed a partial veto are the Trustees. The 
SLC should begin charting the outlines of the type of University 
community they would like to have.· Several areas which have not 
been touched by the SLC such as academic affairs, university 
priorities, and University admissions policies should be studied, with 
the distinct possibility for reform in mind. 
The most important task the SLC will face is that of creating an equalization of the three member blocs of the University. The administration should do just that, administer, not determine policy, the students should concentrate on learning, and developing themsel­ves, while the faculty should concentrate on creating an academic atmosphere and doing their utmost to impart their knowledge to the st1,1dents. Policy should be determined by the three groups acting in 
coacert. 

The opinions expressed in the edi-~
Features Editor: Dave Stauffer 
torials, news analyses, and columns 
Photography Editor: Mike Murphy 
of The Observer are solely the opin­
Ad. Mgr.: Bruce Barker 
ions of the authors and editors of 
Night Editor: Rich Smith 

lege, the University of Notre Dame, Anne Therese Darin their administrations, faculty, or stu· rlent bodies. 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 1970 711B OBSERVER 
PAGE 5 

Students struck by tribal folk-rock musical O'Hare 



Moose Krause past foe of Globetrotters 
The Harlem Globetrotters presented their razzle dazzle basketball show at the brand new Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter on the University of Notre Dame campus last season and among the turn­away crowd of some 12,000 was the st:hool's athletit: director, Ed (Moose) Krause. 
The present:c of Krause, one-time foot­ball and basketball All-Amerit:an with the Fighting Irish, stirred a lot of memories of the past -back to the days when he had a professional team known as the Minnesota All-Stars, opponents of the Trotters more than three det:ades ago in many t:ities of the Gopher State. 
"I was coaching at St. Mary's College of Winona, Minnesota, at the time and organized a team of wllege and high school coaches to play a game against the Trotters," he recalled. 
"We had a good ball club and the Trotters really had to hustle to beat us. After that game we got together and decided to play each other as often as possible. From 1934 until I went into the Navy in 1942, we played something like sixty games. It was a great experience. 
"The Globetrotters were a great ball club then, as they are now. I enjoyed watching them in action again after so many years and hope they'll make a stop at Notre Dame a regular part of their annual schedule. 
"We beat them a few times but not very often. The Trotters would do very little of their clowning unless they were on the front end of the score, but they had great shooters and wuld pass like they were born with a basketball in their hands." 
In all the games he played against the Globetrotters, Krause always had Inman Jackson, the team's original clown, as his opponent. Both played center and both were about 6-3, though the 230 pound Krause had about 25 pounds on "Big Jack", whom he claims was one of the greatest players the game ever produced. They became good friends, and still are today, but it wasn't always that way in their battles against each other. One night Krause really got heated up, he recalls. 
"The game was dose and we were giving it everything we had," remembered Krduse. "The Trotters had possession of the ball and all of a sudden, everybody in 
the stands started to laugh. I looked 
around to see what they were laughing at 
and I couldn't see the ball. 
"I finally looked down on the floor 
and there was· the ball, lying there be­
tween my feet. Well, I chased Jackson all 
over the gym and he was having a tough 
time keeping ahead of me because he was 
laughing so hard. My teammates finally 
calmed me and l had a good laugh about 
it afterwards." 

Occasionally, Krause and Jackson have 
the opportunity to reminisce about "the 
good old days." They've remained close 
and valued friends. 

Jackson is still associated with the 
Trotters, serving as consulting coach and 
coordinating the development of raw 
talent into polished Globetrotters. 
Ice Capades to 
hold auditions 
lee Capades' scouts and coaches are constantly searching for new skating talent. Local and area skaters are invited to audition this year at Notre Dame at 
4:00 PM, Friday, April 17 and at another session immediately following that even­ing's performance at the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
In addition to good pay, performing 
with Ice Capades offers the opportunity 
to tour the United States, Canada and 
summer tours overseas. 

Though amateur skaters need 
not be champions, the~· must be skaters 
of superior merit. Ice Capades' profes­
sional coaching staff will train acceptable 
applicants before they are assigned spe­
cific spots in the show. Those who do not 
pass the initial audition may try again 
after following prescribed skating recom­
mendations. 

Prospective male skaters must be I 7 to 
25 years of age and measure between five 
feet eight inches and six feet two inches 
in height. Girls must be between the ages 
of 17 and 23 years and between five feet 
two inches and five feet nine inches in 
height. 

Applicants are requested to bring their own skates and costumes. Judging will be done by the Ice Capades coaching staff. 
.. .Miamlle~~eh is 81 ad ••J 


' J 

·--~· ----------~----­
Freddie Trenlder, left, will appear with the Ice Capades at the ACC begjnnina Wednesday, April IS. 

The Univenity of Notre Dame Concert Band 
Ca5e




No indictment in Kopechne 
EDGARTOWN, Mass. (UPI)­Mary Jo Kopechne in Sen. Ed­A whirlwind grand jury, which ward M. Kennedy's car. The heard just four witnesses, ended 
district attorney pronounced the case "closed."
its investigation without indict­ments yesterday in the death of The lO meri and lO women of the Dukes County grand jury, after deliberating three hours and 15 minutes, apparently found no evidence to indict Kennedy or others in connection with the 28 year old secretary's death last July. 


Conclusion of the grand jury probe, one of four in the Kopechne case, seemed to pre­dude any further possibility the sole sur-viving Kennedy son would face additional criminal charges stemming from the fatal car accident last July. 
District Attorney Edmund S. Dinis said as much when he e­merged from the old court house here: 
"This is the end of the investigation into the death of Mary Jo Kopechne. The case is closed." 
The jurors apparently were denied access to the impounded 7 64 page transcript of testimony and the judge's report of a four day secret inquest three months ago during which 27 witnesses were heard. 
The documents presumably now can be made public under ground rules laid down by the Massachusetts Supreme Court. The high court said the docu­ments could be released when no further criminal action appeared forthcoming. 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8,1970 

Concert band performs under new conditions 
The Notre Dame Concert Band, fresh from its 3,500-mile tour of the East, will present its annual Spring Concert at 8: I 5 this Friday evening in the Athle­tic and Convocation Center. There will be no admission charge. 
Although this performance has served as the traditional cli­max to the tour for several years, this year it will be marked by several noticeable changes. Most obvious is its new location. Instead of Stepan Cente1, where the sound and the seating are unfavorable to musical presenta­tions, the concert· will be held in the ACC. 
A second change involves the composition of the Band itself. After 123 years, making it the oldest college band in continu­ous existence, of an all-male tradition, the Band has finally gone co-ed. ~ix young ladies successfully competed and passed auditions in December and were thus the first ever to be admitted to the Concert Band. 
The Band's program, which was well received in the cities of Boston, Lewiston, New York, Buffalo, and Montreal, will con­sist of show tunes, marches, and contemporary jazz. Selections from the award-winning movie 0/irer the "UN March," and arrangement of which the Marching Band performed at this year's Cotton Bowl Game, and "Harlem Nocturne" will be fea­tured at the Concert. 
Mr. Robert F. O'Brien Will 
direct for the I7th consecutive 
year, and he will be assisted by 
James S. Phillips. 

Festival invites poets 
(continued from page 2) 
York City and makes his living as an independent fisherman and as poetry editor of The Nation. 
Allen Planz will be reading Thursday, April 16, at 3 p.m. in the Library Auditorium:· 
Michael Anania, who will be reading Thursday afternoon with Allen Planz, was born in 1939 and attended the University of Nebrasi<a and SUNY at Buffalo. In Mr. Anania's poetry one finds a deep compulsion to know everything that one can know. His writing deals primarily with the people, from the simple way they talk, to the intricate way they feel. 
Mr. Anania's poetry and es­says have appeared in Chicago Review, Audit, Tri-Quarter/y and Omnibus. He has previously been co-editor of Audit/Poetry and makes his living teaching at Chicago Circle Campus and as Poetry Editor of Swallow Press. His first collection of poetry, The Color .of Dust, ~as recently published by Swallow Press_ 

Apollo may be delayed by measles 
CAPE KENNEDY (UPI) ­Doctors examined blood from the three Apollo 13 astronauts yesterday for clues to whether or not they will break out with 
the measles while in space next week. The fate of Saturday's launch date hangs on the prog­nosis. 

Dr. Charles A. Berry, the moon . pilots' chief physician, said the laboratory testing should be completed by today. Then he will make the "agon-
Summer Jobs 
How hard can you work? Earn $2000 to $6000 Call Chas 7604 

izing" decision whether to rec-pressure suits and the mtsswn ommend Apollo 13 blast off as control center followed the drill planned Saturday or wait for the as if it were real. next opportunity, May 9. The laboratory tests on the 
If the tests indicate that any astronauts' blood were being one of the three pilots would get conducted in the Lunar Re­sick, a spokesman said the shot cetvmg Laboratory at the probably would be delayed. Manned Spacecraft Center in Berry said measles could disable Houston by a team of specialists. a crewman in flight. The doctors were measuring 
Despite the unprecedented the amount of disease fighting medical questions, astronauts antibodies in the astronauts' James A. Lovell, Thomas K. systems. This will determine Mattingly and Fred W. Haise their state of immunity to went about the business of get-German measles and enable ting ready for the toughest doctors to predict the astra­moon expedition yet attempted. nauts' chances of getting sick. 
The three astronauts worked Lovell, Mattingly and Haise out in spacecraft trainers much 
were exposed to a "fairly classic of the day, rehearsing moon case" of German measles orbit and landing operations for through backup lunar module 
t-------------__~._t_h_e_Ia_s_t_ti..:.m..:.e:...:·--=.T.:..:h..:.e___!:_pi::.·lo:..t::s_::w:...:o:.:.r:..e....., pilot Charles Duke. Duke broke 
IN PERSON 
JOHNNY CASH 
SAT. NOTRE DIME ATHLETIC AND
APRIL 25 
CONVOCATION


8:00P.M. 
CENTER 


STATLER BROS.* CARL PERKINS CARTER FAMILY* TOMMY CASH 
Only $2. 75 Upper Arena Tickets Remain Tickets at ACC Box Office 
out in a rash Sunday, and Berry said that means the disease could have been contacted by one of the prime crewmen seven days earlier. 
It takes anywhere from 14 to 21 days for the German measles virus to develop in an individual. This means the astronauts-if they are going to get the measles-would probably become sick next week, possible while circling or walking the moon. 
Fannie 
Willa 
Hula 
and 


MORE 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 1970 

71/B OliSUIIBt 
PAGE 7 

Is there a better way to govern Notre Dame? 
This is the first part in a 

jive-part series written by tile Nutting for President Head­quarters. 111e second installment will discuss tile managerial prob­lems involved in running any large organizatiOn . -H£1. 
In· an attempt to discuss the issue of university governance and revision at Notre Dame (apart from the personalities of those people involved in the structure) we intend to consider the "Structural" University of Notre Dame and to answer the question "How is Notre Dame governed'!" We will then ask if there is a hetter way to govern this university. 
In attempting to answer this question we will propose, in contrast to the administrative status que, an alternative plan for the governance of Notre Dame. In the development of the Chancellor-President struct­ure we will focus upon "How would (or should) Notre Dame be governed'!" Our last question, quite separate from those above, yet at the same time essential to any innovation, is the question: will it work'! : a consideration of comparative advantages and dis­advantages. 
No institution, particularly no university, can survive with ou I change ... One of the mafor. challenges of change for tile university today is its governance: how it has been governed in tile past and how its governance is likclv to evolve ill the future... ­
-Theodore Hesburgh, Tile Nature of the Cl!ai­Jenge 

Perhaps the only way to really appreciate how Notre Dame is governed is to be Notre Dame's President or Chairman of the Board for a day. Since this option is clearly not open to us, we are forced to draw on the written description of Notre Dame's structure. Keeping in mind that how a structure appears on paper, and how it actually operates may be quite different things, we intend to explore the questions: How are decisions made at Notre Dame? What types of decisions are made by the high-level adminis­trators'! and On what basis are administrative problems rele­gated to the various decision­making levels'! 
The document which governs the University of Notre Dame is a 17-page statement called "The Statutes of the University and the By-laws of the Board of Trustees". It begins, 
On April 8, 1967, at a meet­ing of the Fellows, the stat­utes were ratified and m·w By-laws were approved which delegate the ordinary power of governance of the Univer­sity to a Board of Trustees. 
The "Fellows of the University," referred to in this passage, are six C.S.C. priests and six lay fellows, all I 2 from the Board of Trustees. They have all power and authority granted by ... the state of Indiana Iin I the Char­tering Act... on January 15, 
SMC program on Urban Studies 
A unique interdisciplinary program combining the forces of the social sciences and the humanities for the study of ur­ban problems has been initiated by Saint Mary's College, in co­operation with the University of Notre Dame. Recognizing the challenge facing the country to implement a truly human envi­ronment for urban living, the Saint Mary's Program for Urban Studies will apply the resources of the liberal arts college to the problems of cities and their minorities. 
Under the co-direction of Dr. Charles Poinsatte, chairman of the history department, and Pro­fessor Louis Tondreau, chairman of the department of political science, the Program for Urban Studies intends to bring in-ser-

Overrules Kirk 
TAMPA, Fla. (UPI) A federal district judge overruled Gov. Claude Kirk's intervention in a school desegrega lion case yester­day and sternly told the govern­or to "he here personally" Fri­day to answer civil contempt charges. 
Judge Ben Krentzman rein­stated the Manatee County school hoard-which Kirk sus­pemled Sunday night in a move to foil the court ordered desegre­gation -and told the board he wanted the court ordered plan carried out by Thursday. 
Kirk was to have appeared at yesterday's hearings, hut sent word he was too busy because of the opening session of the legis­lature. 
The governor did not appear concerned over the possibility of being cited for contempt. "I don't think they'll do anything to a sick, old expectant father," he said. Kirk referred to his recent kidney operation and the fact his wife is expecting the birth of a child shortly. 
lie later told the legislature he intended to fight the busing issue all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court. 
Paul Guernsey & Jim Moran 

America 

vice teachers, public officials and concerned citizens an under­standing of urban problems in their historical, political and eco­non1ic aspects and to provide the regional and ultimately the national communities with the results of Program-directed re­search. 
A successful pilot program in urban studies conducted at the College last summer led to a grant of $25,000 from the National Endowment for the Humanities for funding the current program. The grant will also make possible full tuition remission for 30 participants. Approval of the grant was an­nounced April 3 by Congress­man John Brademas of Indiana's 3rd District. Mr. Brademas, who chairs the House Sub-Committee on Education, is a former facul­ty member of Saint Mary's. 
In cooperation with the De­partment of Graduate Studies in Education at the University of Notre Dame, students enrolled in the Urban Studies Program will earn graduate credit for each session attended. The projected 
long-range ;:>rogram offering several semesters of classroom, laboratory and in tern study ex­periences in large metropolitan areas such as Chicago and De­troit will lead to a master's degree from the University of Notre Dame. 
The initial summer session, June 22 through July 3 I , will 
0ffer course work in three disci­plinary approaches. "American Urban History" will study the significance of the city on Amer­ican history from colonial times to the present. An analysis of political and social dimensions of urban life will be the concern of "Political Problems of the Metropolis and Its Communi­ties." "The Economic Aspects of Urban Development" will inves­tigate the role and contribution of economics to urban problems and relate questions of contem­porary value to the traditions of . the humanities. The interdiscipli­nary character of the Program will be emphasized through joint seminar examination of research 
results. 
Community research at the 
outset will be focused primarily 
on the Michiana area cities of 
South Bend, Mishawaka, Elkhart 
and Niles. It is hoped that stu­
dent research will aid in provid­
ing the communities with a clear 
community self-image and in es­
tablishing a concrete research 
spurce and a pilot program for 
the significant relation of city 
and academic communities. 
Urban affairs consultants will 
assist the staff and students in 
establishing research studies and 
techniques to provide the great­
est impact on local and national 
urban problems. The consultants 
and regional public officials will 
also address class sessions on 
relevant topics. 
ICE CAPADES 

Wed. April 15 
to 


Sun. April 19 
Student Discount 
For Thur. 8 pm 
Sat. 2 pm 
Sun. 6 pm 


Only $1.25 tix Remain (Reg. $2.50) 
For jit/1 price shows some $4.50 and $2.50 tix remain 

I X44. Six of the fellows are ex standing committees: Executive officio (by virtue of their office) Committee, Investment Commit­members: The Provincial of the tee, Development Committee, 
the Committee on EducationalCongregation of Holy Cross, the 
President of the University, the Matters, the Nominating Com­
Executive Vice-President, Vice-mittee, the Liaison Committee 
President for Academic Affairs for the Advisory Councils; each 
' committee has not less thanChairman of the Board of Trust-seven (7), nor more than thir­
ees, and Secretary of the Board teen ( 13) members. The Execu­of Trustees. Vacancies are filled by a majority vote of the Fel-tive Committee, is by far the 
lows. The President of the Uni-most powerful, for it has "all of versity is the Chairman of the the powers and. functions of the fellows. Board, ... between meetings of the 
The Fellows are responsible Board." During its six required for: ( 1) electing and removing meetings per year, it is chaired Trustees, ( 2) iidopting and by the President, and its ex amending the by-laws of the officio members are the Chair­University (by 2/3 vote), (3) man and Secretary of the Board, approving the selling of a "sub-and the Executive Vice­stantial piirt of the physical President. properties," (4) making sure... (3) (Sec. IV) "if a matter of "the essential nature of the Uni-serious importance" concerning versity as a Catholic institution "university policy which in the (is) maintained," and (5) that usual course would be resolved the C.S.C. priests are a vital by decision of the President, (it) component of the "university's may ... be referred in the discre­operations." tion of the President to the 
Except for these "powers... all Board of Trustees for final deter-powers for the governance of the mination " .. .If it is impractical University shall be vested in a or untimely to refer such ... to the Board of Trustects which shall full Board of Trustees for appro­consist of such number of Trust-priate action, the matter may • in 
the discretion of the President, ees not less that thirty ( 30) nor be referred to the Executive more than forty (40).. .The six 
Committee... " 
ex officio members of the Fel-(4) providing for the safe­1ow s as well as the Vice-keeping and the handling, of the -President for Business Affairs, 
University's properties and 
are ex officio members of the funds. Board of Trustees. The member­ship of the Board may be altered <5> Alteration of "these by­
laws" requires "at least two­by removal (requiring the recom­thirds of the Fellows" concur-mendation of the Board and 
renee.
approval of the Fellows) or,-------~~~~-==--~ retirement to the status of Hon-~ NOTICE 
orary Trustee (mandatory at age
70). Students planning to The Board is presided over by student teach during First a chairman, who is elected by SemesteJ; 1970 7 L must the Board every two years. Rec-report by April 10. ords and proceedings are the responsibility of the Secretary. St. Mary's College students The activities of the Board, go to Room 320, which require a quorum of "fif-Madeleva Hall. teen persons," are; University of Notre Dame 
(I) Election of "all officers of students go to Room Illo the University." East, Memorial Library. 
(2) servin& oo tbe Boud'• 
THIIIATURDAY, APRIL 11 -1:•PM 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM-ST. MARY'S STUDENTS $2.00 ADULTS $3.00 TICKETS ON SALE IN DINING HALLS 
Sponsored h}' Om temporary Arts Festival 


TilE OBSERJJ£R. WEDNESDAY,-APRIL 8, 1970
PAGE 8 







Irish netmen beat Boilermakers 
by Jack Schaefer three doubles matches. Bernie Le Sage of N.D. dropped three set singles matches. Murray and Schefter. 
Observer Sports Writer Sophomore Buster Brown an extremely close match to Jim In the second doubles match With yesterday's victory the The Notre Dame varsity ten­won the number one singles Mansfield 64, 1-6, 64. After N.D.'s Brown and Theissen ably Irish upped their season record Mansfield had taken the first set disposed of Anderson and Ham­to three wins and two defeats.
nis team opened its home season match defeating Nick Giordano 
mond 6-3, 6-1. However, the The next Irish match is Friday at
with a solid six to three victory 4-6, 6-2, 6-0. Buster as the score La Sage roared back as he com­
Northwestern. The next home
over the Boilermakers of Purdue. indicates got off to a slow start pletely dominated the second third doubles match was won by 
match will be April 18th against 
The Irish won five of the six before he started to play in his set. However, Mansfield regained Purdue's Callison and Di:.;k singles matches played while accustomed manner. control in the third set for the Cochrane 64, 8-6 over Greg the University of Cincinnati. Purdue captured two of the In the number two singles hard fought victory. 
Notre Dame's Mike Reilly de­feated Purdue's Dick CochraneJIM MURRAY 
in the number three singles match. Reilly won 7-5, 1-6, 6-2. Gil Theissen, one of the two freshmen to crack the Irish start­ing six, beat Dick Anderson in the number four singles match.
Nothing has changed 
Theissen won in straight sets 6-1, 8-6. 
Meanwhile, the other frosh starter, Rob Schefter won the number five singles match with a © 1970, Los Angeles Times 64, 6-0 victory over the Boiler­maker's Chuck Callison. Notre
As previously noted, sending Lew Alcindor to UCLA was a 
Dame co-captain Rob "Bounce"

monumental redundancy on the order of sending a parade to 
O'Malley trounced Purdue's Phil
Germany, a singer to Italy or a hot watch to a hock shop. 
Hammond, 6-1, 6-0 to win the

John Robert Wooden must have felt like a guy living in a trailer 
number six singles match for the
who suddenly wins an elephant. 
Irish.

For Alcindor's part, he must have felt like a guy who suddenly 
In the number one doubles

steps through a door marked "1890." 
match Giordano and Mansfield

First of all, there was the language barrier. To John Wooden, 
of Purdue defeated Le Sage and

"dig" is something you do with a shovel. When he says "it's cool," 
Reilly 9-7, 5-7, 64. The match
he means the sun isn't out. 
was a gruelling affair lasting over

John Wooden was so square, he was divisible by four. Lew 
two and one half hours. It was

Alcindor was from New York where they're born knowing every­
made tougher by the fact that all
thing. 
four players had participated in

Alcindor later confessed in his memoirs that he thought Johnny Wooden was something that escaped from that painting of American Gothic. Lew wondered where he put the pitchfork. 
No one asked Wooden to write his memoirs. For one thing, they'd be rated "G." But to the rest of basketball, Lew Alcindor looked 

'Living legend'is dead
like something that nested in the Andes. His legs were longer than some streets. 

Wooden had always been successful because he taught his teams CINCINNATI (UPI) -For­National Invitation Tournament. N.Y. fundamentals. Teaching Alcindor fundamentals was like teaching a mer Cincinnati Royals star He was named the most valuable Stokes turned down an offer shark to bite. Wooden concentrated on the supporting cast. Maurice Stokes, who became a player of that tourney and by the Harlem Globetrotters. He 
The result was a Johnny Wooden team minus one. John stoically "living legend" at St. Francis finished his senior year at St. was named "rookie of the year" endured the Alcindor era. The rest of the community was not so College, will be laid to rest Francis with a 26.6 scoring in 1956 when he set a league fortunate and got a pretty good going-over from Lew under the Thursday in the Franciscan average. record with I ,256 rebounds. In boards. Cemetery on the Loretto, Pa. He was the first round draft> his three year career, Stokes 
"I think," signed Wooden, "we changed each other." campus. choice of the Royals, then in scored 3,315 points, an average 
If you were reading the bulletings out of College Park, Md., a Stokes, whose brief profes­their final year at Rochester, of 16.4 per game. week ago, you will know thia is not altogether so. That team which sional basketball career ended John put together so painstakingly, ignoring a few off-court after only three years, died 
Masters are ready
deton_ations here and there in the Alcindor era, turned out to be the Monday after suffering from a best m the country as usual. They played so well together the heart ailment. He was 36._ Augusta, Ga. (UPI) -Gary 
four-time champion Arnold 

vagrant notion might have crossed your mind Alcindor was lucky to Stokes, once considered big at Player says that although his Paimer and Tom Weiskopf, only 
make it. 6 foot 7 and 240 pounds, was victory at Greensboro indicates man to be under par in each of Wooden didn't have any canary feathers trickling out the side of stricken with encephalitis March he's playing well e·nough to win his last seven rounds here. 
his mouth when I cornered him in his office at UCLA the other'day. I 5, 19 58. He suffered a heart here, "It's a brand new ball game Palmer, the darling of Masters' If he's changed any, it wasn't visible. It was I 0 o'clock in the attack March 30: Doctors said wlJ.en you get to the Masters." 
fans, didn't arrive until Ia te in morning and his feet were killing him but he was wearing a shirt and the heart attack complicated his The muscular South African, the afternoon, explaining: "I tie and cuff links. He didn't have "shades," he had his usual bifocals. condition and attributed death only foreigner ever to win the just decided to take the day off" It was Good Friday and the rest of the college was shut down. to the heart attack. Masters (in I 96 I) which is being after a gruelling 36 hole SundayJohn had to get an early start because he would be busy in church "We're all very much broken played for the 34th time starting finale at Greensboro.

from 1:2 'til 3. 

up," said Jack Twyman, Stokes' ·Thursday, says "This is the only Nicklaus, who skipped Green­He wasn't wearing bell-bottoms. He didn't have buckles on his legal guardian because he was course I know where you start sboro to get m three practiceshoes._ He was reading Luke, Chapter 6, Verses 36, 37, not Harold "the only Cincinnatian with the choking when you drive through rounds here last wrckend, left
Robbms. Royals at the time of the trag­the front gate." 
Sunday night to spend a couple

I sneaked a look at his walls. Everyone in the pictures had all his edy." The layout at the 6,980 yard of nights with his family in clothes on. There were kids on a court and kids on a bicycle. A special Requiem Mass was Augusta National favors the Florida but was expected hack The wall poems didn't run to "Howl!" but to Elbert Hubbard He planned for tonight in the power hitters-men like three­today. 
was leafing patiently through a stack a mail on the off-chance there Chapel at Good Samaritan Hos­time champion Jack Nicklaus. was ~ne from a kid who could play the corner in a pressing defense. pital where he died. The body I listened c~refully but I didn't hear a single word that would have will then be taken to the St. offe~?ed Loutsa Ma~ Alcott. There were a lot of "Gracious sakes!" Francis College campus for a 

MAJOR LEAGUES 
and Goodness gracwus alive!" and all that kind of jive talk that student mass Thursday after­American-East National-West must have made Lew think he was putting him on. noon and a funeral mass in the TEAM Won Lost Pet. GB TEAM Won Lost Pet. GB No, John Wooden is still keeping the mod world well in the chapel that evening. *Detriot 1 0 1.000 *Cincinnati 1 0 1.000 Boston 1 0 1.000 Houston 1 0 1.000
backcourt. Lew Alcindor's world has been changed. You can tell 
Baltimore 1 0 1.000 *LosAngeles 0 0 .000
that from Dun & Bradstreet but for John Wooden, things are still Stokes brought fame to the y, 
y,

New York 0 Atlanta 0 0 .000
Standard and Poor. small St. Francis College near .000 
Cleveland 0 .000 San Diego 0 0 .000 
No, I don't think the change is too visible. John Wooden is still Pittsburgh when he scored 43 y, 
*Washington 0 .000 Siln Fran 0 1 .000 the best basketball coach in the world. Lew Alcindor is still 7 feet 2 points and grabbed I 9 rebounds West East inches tall. against Dayton in the !955 Oakland 1 0 1.000 New York 1 0 1.000 
Minnesota 1 0 1.000 Philadelphia 1 0 1.000 0 .000
California 1 0 1.000 St. Louis 0 1 .000
Chicago 0 1 .000 1 Chicago 0 1 .000
Hockey playoffs scheduled y, 
Kansas City 0 1 .000 1 Montreal 0 Milwaukee 0 .000 1 Pittsburgh 0 .000 *-last night's game not included.
Detriot at Washington. nightNEW YORK (UP!) -This is Series "B" Missesota April I I, I 2 aft Boston 4 New York 3 Cincinnati at Los Angeles. night
Boston-New York

the schedule for the first round St. Louis April 14 New York 5 Pittsburgh 3 
Baltimore 8 Cleveland 2 of the National Hockey League Boston April 8,9 Minnesota April 16 California 12 Milwaukee 0 Philadelphia 2 Chicago 0 playoffs: New York April I I , I 2 St. Louis April 18 or 19 Oakland 6 Kansas Citv 4 Houston 8 at San Francisco 5 
Eastern Division Boston April 14 Series "A" New York April 16 
Series "D" 
Boston April 18 or 19

Chicago Detroit Pittsburgh-Oakland Chicago April 8, 9 Pittsburgh April X,9 Detroit April II, I 2 aft Western Division Oakland April 11,12 Chicago April 14 Series "C" Pittsburgh April 14 Detroit April 16 St. Louis-Minnesota Oakland April 16 Chicago April 18 or I 9 St. Louis April 8,9 Pittsburgh April 18 or 19 





