-----~---­

•
Krashna-Winings victorious 1n SBP election 
Thrasher, 6 other SBP aspirants concede defeat 
Krashna new SBP 
gains office on 

record percent 
In record breaking fashion, Dave Krashna captured every hall while being elected as the next Student Body President by a margin of 1605 votes over his nearest competitor. 
According to SBP Phil Mc­Kenna. the 63.6% of the vote which went to Krashna and his ru.nning mate Mark Winings is an all time high for the regular presidential election. 
Krashna achieved this by garnering 2X6S votes out of the 4500 hallots cast. Torn Thrasher and (;reg Murray took second place with I260 or 2X%. Finish­ing thml were Pete Peterson and Rory Baruth who gathered 169 votes for 3.7%. 
Among the other candidates on the hallot. John Maguire and John Kuhn pulled 1.6% with their 72 votes. The team of John Dowdle and John (;askie had 66 tallies and I.5% while Joe Lord and Larry Lange took in 21 votes for .5%. Wrill' ins account­ed for I% of the total as 47 were counted. 
In his clean sweep, Krashna 
not only won every hall as well 
as the off-campus and overseas 
votes. hut he defeated all the 
other candidates comh1ned in 
every hall except in St. Jot•'s. 
Then· he won with 4H% of the 
vole. 
J'hrashcr's 41% at St. Joe's 
was his highest percentage on 
campus and as close as he came 
to being the vidor. His 12 votes 
Ihere were only I wo hehind 
K rashna. 
{continued on page 3) 


SBP Dave Krashna 



Statement from the Editors 
The Observer has been the object of a great deal of criticism in the past few days, especially in the area of its coverage of the student body presidential election campaign. To be honest, we feel that we have been accused of being liars and cheats, who are deliberately slanting the news. 
Some Students have been spreading false statements about our treatment of the 
campaign. We denounce those students and challenge them to back up their accusations with fact. We know that they can't. 
Last evening, before the results of the SBP election were known, The Observer editorial board met to consider what steps should be taken to affirm in the public mind our commitment to objectivity. 
We do not, nor have we ever tried to push or prove anything through our news coverage. 
If people believed otherwise we would just as soon not publish. We do not feel that publication of the paper, for which we get absolutely nothing except personal satisfaction and the knowledge that we are performing a valuable service for the community, is important enough if our credibility is in such bad repute. There are other things we could do with our time. 
The problem is that we can not provide the service function that we intend to if we arc not going to he trusted and believed. To go on publishing as a tainted organ makes no sense. 
But Wl' decided that to stop publication because of afew criticisms makes little sense either. 
The purpose of this statement is to reaffirm one thing -our commitment to fairness and accuracy in our newsreporting. When we believe in something we will support it wholeheartedly in an editorial. We will make mistakes but they will not be made out of malice or deliberate slanting of events hut out of pure human error. 
You might wonder why we are making all the fuss. Well it is partially because of our own desire not to be known as liars or cheats -partially because we are concerned about the reputation of l11e Observer. But most of all it is because we would like to see community grow here at Notre Dame. It will only grow if people can communicate with one another. We would like to feel that they can do it through The Observer. If you don't believe what we write it does no good. 
If you have complaints let us know. But try to understand what goes into putting out a paper. If we run one story above another it does not indicate that we support what is contained in that story any more thcn we do what is contaiill'd in the story below it. It mcans that the story is more newsworthy or that it means that we need to put it there to balance the page, or even that it or another story came in too late to put it anywhere else. 
We want to st.!rve you. It's as simple as that. 
Davc Bach, Night Editor 
Glen Corso, News Editor 
Ann Conway, Associate Editor 
Guy Dc Sapio, Editor-in-chief 
Jim Holsinger, Night Editor 
Dave Lammers, Night Editor 
T.C.Treanor, Night Editor 
Jcanne Sweeney, Associate Editor 
Dave Stauffer, Features Editor 
Prudence Wear Saint Mary's News Editor 
Cliff Wintrode, Associate Editor 

Krashna win 'unbelievable' 
campaign. His face bore a small ~chmidt, Jerry O'Connor, all thl'
The Farley Hall Headquarters_ for the Krashna-Winings cam­but unremovable smile. hall captains. And a special paign last night reverberated "There arc just so many thanks to Phil McKenna for just with the tumult of the over­people I have to thank," Krash­being there when I necdt:d i1i rn 
na said. "I'll probably spend the

whelming victory of the two most." next week or so thanking them Krashna wished to extend
candidates in the SBI'-SBVI' all. They all helped so much just congratulations to his defeated
elections. Both Krashna and hy being behind me, operating opponent Tom Thraslll'r.
Winings were swampt:d by sup­and produdng a personable and
porters, accepting congral ula­"I want to sincerl'iy thank tions for a win that both what I think was <~ meaningful Tom and his friends for what I described as "unhelievcahle." campaign, h:ading to a beautiful belil:ved was a clean and in the 
Daw K rashna sal quielly in victory. long run, very meaningful l·am­the room th<~l h<~d served as the "I have to especially thank paign I believe the campaign center of opl'f<llions for his Mark for being such an outstand­gave people a chancl' to think, 
L·;unpaign, soaked with cham­ing running mate and an out­and showt'tl them thai their 
p<~gnc and hccr, his eyes heavy standing friend as wl'il. Boh Ihink ing can get something with the fallgUL' of the long Pohl, my campaign manager. was done." hours he had put in during lhe just fanlaslk. Steve t:Iavin, Dave {continued on page 7) 
Krashna-Winings 

congratu Iated by 


Thrasher-Murray 

Obvious disappointment was tempered somewhat by sighs of relief last evening as Student Body President and Vice-Presi­dent candidates Tom Thrasher and Greg Murray received news of their defeat at the hands of the team of Dave Krashna and Mark Winings in yesterday's SBI' election. 
Beyond exprt:ssing gratitude 
to their supporters, and voicing 
their general reaction to the 
campaign, neither candidate 
commented at length on the 
election. 

"Quite frankly. I enjoyed tht: campaign, moreso of course than the returns," Thrasher stated. "Greg and I were ahle to meet many people and talk with them about student concerns. This opportunity for discussion was very worthwhile, and verj wei­come." 
We were tremendously 
pleased with the enthusiasm and 
support of the many students 
that actively campaigned for us. 
We received the most gratifi­
cation from the realization that 
so many people saw fit to 
support us for no other reason 
than that they really wanted us 
to win. We all tried very hard, 
but unfortunately we were de­
feated. However, rather than 
total disappointment, I can only 
express a very sincere sense of 
gratefulness to a fine group of 
unselfish workers. 
Murray also remarked that the 

team had done its best and 
rdeased a sigh of relief a\ the 
campaign's coneIusion. 

"I hope our efforts weren't 
for nothing, and I hope that the 
students liked what we said, and 
that our ideas won't be lost with 
our defeat." he slated. 

"For myself. through my 
conversations with stud~:nts 
during the past several days, and 
through my awareness of their 
interests and opinions, I gained 
substantially personally, if not 
politically." 

Thrasher and Murray ap­
peared with a large group of 
followers at the Student Center 
upon the election's outcomt:, 
and congratulated the victorious 
efforts of the incoming ticket of 
Krashna and Winings. 


More 
election coverage on page 3 
SRVI' Mark Winings 

~-----------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 1970
PAGE 2 
THE OBSERfi.Eit 




Peterson:'Krashna absorbed our platform' 
"No surrender," declared Pete 

Peterson  from  his  campaign  
headquarters  in  Morrissey Man­ 
or.  

Peterson clarified his position by stating "We won. Krashna absorbed our platform over the period of the campaign. We heard him the first night, and it was all his.J By the time he got to Grace Hall the last night it was all our platform. We started out with striking similarities, true, but by the end of the campaign, it was our tune coming out of his horn." 
Peterson went on to state that he was disappointed by the turnout for his platform. 
"We heard continuously that many people would have voted for us but for the polls. They took a defeatist stance and said that they would have "oted for us except that the polls stated that we couldn't win. The fact is that the first poll, which gave us three percent, came out after we 
had spoken to approximately twenty-eight people. If we had started our campaign earlier we could have carried more support. We consider our ultimate vote count as indicative of the rising discontent with the petty egoism of most politicos," stated Peter­son. 
Peterson went on to declare the "correct political system" on campus as "a group of self-cen­tered children who want to write home and say 'Dear Mommy and Daddy, I am into politics'." 
Peterson claimed that in reali­ty, the only viable alternative was Magnesium B. Wheels. He 


Corbaci to close DPMA seminar 
The second annual executive seminar of the Michiana chapter of the Data Processing Manage­
-n-J{,usc JYt'sC:o•j"'· 
Cr·dtsmen in Optics 
• 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGL.LISSES AND CONTACT LENSES-­
TIIH SlfERfAND B!I>G. 1]2 S. MICHIGAN ST. 
Centra/2-1468 
~Jliiii.Se oJVaiGJt 3nc~ 
Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.--Chicago 
r-------------.~---------------------------------~ 
CoME TO A PARTY 
INREGINA HALL 
9-1 Friday, March 13 
MAGNIFICENT SEVEN 


are playing

$ 1.50 I couple ( this is not a pajama party ) 
ment Association, Inc. (DPMA, will be held at the Center for continuing Education on the . University of Notre Dame 
campus Saturday (March 14). 
Leo M. Corbaci, assistant vice-president for academic affairs and University registrar at Notre Dame, will deliver the closing lecture of the program, entitled "Economic Justification and Efficient -Operation." Corbaci came to Notre Dame in 
1951  as  an  instructor of econ­ 
omics.  
Other  speakers  will  include  

Donald L. Carter, controller of the Automotive Service Division of Bendix Corp. speaking on "Management Expectations"; 
B.L. Warner, administration manager of International Busi­ness Machines, Oklahoma branch, speaking on "Effective Communications"; and Miss Jane Meyer, research chemist at the National Cash Register Co., speaking on "New Horizons." 
stated that the major candidates for John MaGuire." were "extremists" and that at 
In conclusion, Peterson said,least Magnesium B. had a "realis­"We wi!J fight on against selfish­

tic grasp of student govern­ness and lack of imagination inment." 
all aspects of student life. We are 
According to Peterson, "Mag like the person you ask to wake 
Wheels went on as a satirical you up for an eight o'clock 
candidate in the tradition of class-you tell him where to go 
Jonathan .Swift and Benjamin and go back to sleep. But later 
Franklin. I have, as a writer, a you say 'Why didn't you get me 
tremendous amount of respect up?'." 
Nutting backers plan intensified campaign 
by Mark Chapin 
Plans to inform Junior parents of the proposed Chancellor­President structural revtston were discussed at a Nutting for President meeting in Lafortune last night. 
The movement decided finally to have a table at Junior Parents registration this weekend for distribution of their proposal. Also, leat1ets will be handed out to the parents at the Presidential Dinner. 
The group, headed by Steve Raymond, discussed the possibi­lity of a "jacket and ties" demonstration after their efforts to have Dr. Nutting speak at the dinner failed. Another proposal to have a table inside Stepan Center during the dinner also did turn out, according to Ray­mond. It was decided that passing out leaflets outside Ste­pan would be low-key enough to be effective and not alienate people. 
A teach-in meeting on Aca­demic Reform will be held Saturday afternoon. The Chan­cellor-President proposal will be 
. discussed. 
The Nutting campaign is also sponsoring a "Rage for Nutting" night Friday, March 13, at the SMC Coffee House. A group called "Cotton Mather" will play from 9-12 and donations are 50 
cents. 
New Challenges to Constitutional Democracy in the Atlantic Community 
opinion.
MARCH 15, 16,171970 CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
A "Free City Day" was discussed as a possibility in the spring. Nutting supporters would
Student Participation is encouraged -admission free 
like the University to unilateral­ly call off classes and spend the 
Tuesday, March 17, 1970 day in dialogue on what we are doing here at Notre Dame9:00am Session Chairman "The Crisis of Authgrity" 
Also, there would be speakers, a 
Edward A. Goerner-Professor of GovernmentRobert Caponigri 
possibre serious drama, food,
and International Studies-University of NotreChairman, Committee on Humanities 
and group discussions to
Dame.

Professor of Philosophy 
stimulate people into participat­
University of Notre Dame "The New Left" 
ing.
Gerhart Niemeyer-Professor of Government 
Also a fun (not fund) raising

and International Studies-University of Notre 
Dame. 

dinner 'might be held in order to get people together.
7:30pm Session Chairman "Governmental Orientations end Representative 
Dr. Nutting may lead a bird 

Democracy in the Federal Republic" 
walk on April 22nd in conjunc­
Rev. Ernest S. Bartell, C.S.C. 
Rudolf Wildenmann -Visiting Professor, Department 
tion with the National Teach-in
Director, Center for the Study 
of Government-State University of New York at 
on the Environment. He has
of Man 
~~0 ­
annually led his General Program 
University of Notre Dame "The Changing Role of the Communist Party 
students on such hikes.
in Italy" 
Raymond also mentioned that

Robert H_ Evans-Professor of Government 
an attempt will be made to bring
and International Studies-University of Notre 
Dr. Nutting's book, Reclamation
Dame. 

of Independence back into print. It was written in 1939. Dr.
2:00pm Session Chairman "The Impact of the European Community on the Legal and Political Systems of the 
Nutting's other book, The Free 
Rev. William Lewers, C.S.C. 
City, is available at the Notre
Member States"

Professor of Law Bastian van der Esch -Legal Councillor 
Dame Bookstore. 
University of Notre Dame to the Commission of the European Com-. munities -Visiting Professor, School of 
The Observer is published daily International Affairs-Carleton University ­
during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni­
Ottawa. Canada. 

versity of Notre Dame and St. "Judicial Power and European Democracy" 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may Donald P. Kommers-Professor of Govern­
be purchased for $8 from the Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame,
ment and International Studies-University 
Ind., 46556. Second class postage
of Notre Dame. 

paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
...____________________________ 
Raymond contended that 

Father Heshurgh has not yet 
answered any of the three letters 
that they have written him 
explaining the proposal. 
"I don't think Father Hes­burgh is very much aware of the problem involved," Raymond 
said. 
Father Hesburgh will have an opportunity to listen to them on Tuesday, March I7, however. The campaign has been granted 
ten minutes to read a position paper in front of the University Forum. Hesburgh is a Forum member. 
Raymond felt that Father Hesburgh could not ignore their proposals if their group could get 2,000 names on the petitions which are posted in each hall. 
Tentatively scheduled for the first week after Easter is a three day long "Nutting Symposium on Higher Education." The pur­pose of the conference is to evaluate education at Notre Dame, said Raymond, who ex­pressed a desire to have both Nutting and Hesburgh give key­note addresses. He seemed doubtful, however, that this would be the case. The sym­posium would be held in con­junction with the Student Union Academic Commission. 
Panel discussions headed by faculty members will discuss the questions: "What is the status of the community of scholars at Notre Dame'!" and "What, if anything, could we do to make Notre Dame a better com­munity?" General discussions will then be held for all those who would like to express an Hans Morgenthau speaking last night on atomic war. 



Krashna takes all halls by record 63 pet. 
(continuecl from page 1) 
The largest margin for the winning ticket came from the overseas students who supported th'e winners with I 0 out of the I I absentee ballots or 91%. Of the halls on campus, Krashna's 78% in Farley was his highest and provided his widest percent­
age margin although it was not the low for Thrasher. This was reached at Morrissey where he had 14.5% to Krashna's 75. 
Other halls putting more than 70% of their votes in the victors' column were Fisher, St. Ed's, Holy Cross, and Moreau. 
Thrasher received as much as a third of the vote from only Flanner, Grace, Pangborn and Stanford in addition to his high in St. Joe's. 
Of the other candidates, Dow­dle's 12.5% in Badin was his highest percentage. Peterson took 11.2% from Zahm while the tops for Lord and Maguire 
were  Walsh  and  Breen-Phillips  
respectively with  lO'Y,, and 5.8%  
registered.  

Final tallies show that the 4500 votes cast represented fully· 73% of the student body. This is the highest percentage since 85% turned out for the Murphy­O'Oea election in 1967. Last year's runoff had a higher total but also a larger student body. 
Off-campus showed a notable drop in voters as only about 55% of the number who voted in last year's run-off appeared to cast their ballots in the LaFortune basement yesterday. Drops in the numerical voles from most halls were accounted for by• fewer residents this year the percentage turnout remained roughly the same. 
When questioned about the outcome, many of the Krashna supporters indicated that .while they had suspected that they would win, they h<HI envisioned a much closer race and some had even considered another run-off. 
Greg _

• a.. 
Fridny WitS good. .,... 

The fact that their candidate was elected by much more than a two-to-one margin was more than even the most optimistic had predicted. 
But that's how it was as Dave Krashna became the first black student elected SBP. in Notre Dame's history and did it by rolling up the largest margin 
ever. 
7118 OBSERIIIIt 
PAGE 3 

Morganthau talks on atomic war and necessity for prepardness 
by Dave McCarthy Last night in Washington Hall, University of Chicago professor 
of  political  science,  Hans  J.  
Morgenthau  delivered  a  lecture  
concerning  the  updating  of  

American foreign policy. He grimly emphasized the need for American policymakers to come to terms with the awesome potential of nuclear weapons. 
An inability to do so, he' said, would negate any updating of policy relating to less urgent concerns of Communism, for­eign aid, and U.S. involvement in foreign revolutions. 
According to Morgenthau the . concept of nuclear war is irration­al and the concept of overkill is absurd. In order for deterrence to be effective it has to be complete 
and this is not possible, he thought. The arms race only raises the level of irrationality but yet today, with only the stronger nations capable of nuc­lear threat, the chance of war is fairly low, he said. 
If proliferation continues, if 
lesser powers acquire nuclear capabilities, the chance of war and consequent annihilation would measurably increase, he felt. He stressed the critical importance of negotiations 
~--------------------------·

Election Results 
.. c ., 
~ c"' en"' 
·:; c i ~ .c c ~-5 :;; ·­a;
.,

tn.C "C .. 1: ~ ...... "' .. ., ·-... ..:J ;:~ .c "' :J 
"' c ., "' 0 "' 

:2~ jj·~~ ::::~ O..al OCl 0 Alumni 1 0 73 144 8 0 0 Badin 2 0 35 62 4 15 2 Dillon 2 0 73 182 8 1 0 Fisher 0 0 29 105 3 0 2 Howard 2 0 34 86 4 6 0 Lyons 4 0 55 111 4 1 3 Morrisey 0 0 34 176 17 5 2 Pangborn 1 0 63 106 5 2 0 Sorin 0 1 27 74 8 5 8 Walsh 4 16 31 92 7 1 4 B-P 11 0 54 115 5 1 3 Cavanaugh 1 0 61 126 6 0 1 Farley 1 1 38 179 7 3 1 Flanner 11 1 141 222 18 4 4 Grace 4 0 150 260 8 10 2 Keenan 11 0 63 155 7 0 2 Stanford 2 0 99 142 3 2 1 St. Ed's 2 0 22 78 0 3 0 Zahm 1 0 62 115 23 0 4 Carroll 4 1 20 38 5 1 0 Holy Cross 4 0 19 72 1 0 3 St. Joseph's 0 0 12 14 2 0 1 Moreau 0 0 5 14 1 0 0 Off-Campus 4 1 60 187 15 6 3 Overseas 0 0 0 10 0 0 1 TOTALS 72 21 1260 2865 169 66 47 1.6% .5% 28% 63.6% 3.7% 1.5% 1% 
which will begin next month in April regarding nuclear weapons. The fate of the world may hinge, he thought, on the outcome. 
Failure of contemporary American policy is attributed primarily to outdated modes of thinking and action and he said watered-down versions of our post-World War II foreign poli­cies are being applied to present situations. 
The Marshall Plan, the Tru­man Doctrine, and the Policy of Containment, were he felt ex­pressly suited to post war Europe. Yet the programs insti­tuted for this situation and region became abstract princi­ples to be applied everywhere, anytime and he felt application of these principles today is obsolete. Morgenthau prescribed updating thought and action to successfully implement contem­porary foreign policy. 
Failure of foreign aid pro­grams is not entirely the fault of American foreign policy he felt. In addition, cultural and politi­cal aspects of recipient nations 
• are substantially responsible for policy failure. To institute a rational economic policy in a pre-rational economy is inviting failure and it is impossible to immediately impose U.S. 
r thought and action into this 
type of pre-rational culture and expect success, he said. 
They arc not attuned to our economic/technological way of life and also, he said, a foreign government is often entrusted with executing policy which endangers that government's sur­vival. 
Naturally these structures will be reluctant to adequately and faithfully implement policy det­rimental to their integrity he felt. 
Today's Communism is di­verse and polycentric and it is no longer the United States combat­ing the monolithic structure of Soviet Communism, he said. For example, he viewed the Com­munism of Yugoslavia, China, and the Soviet Union as separate entities. 
Until the United States up­dates its foreign policy relating to the combating of Commun­ism, it will continue to meet with little or no success, he said. 
Our involvement in Viet Nam, he felt, did not consider that Viet Nam, a fierce and ancient enemy of neighboring China was a buffer between China and the rest of Southeast Asia. The fact that Ho Chi Minh was a Communist was enough to elicit 
U.S. intervention and succumb­ing to the "red scare" we involved ourselves, he said. 
s $.50 (1) 



I 
~ 
I I I I I I I I 
1 
I 
I I I I I I I I I 
T"p Artists! Maior Labels! Get Your Favorites at Big Discounts! I I I 
1 
I 
I
AT TilE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE I 
I I I 
PAGE 4 THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 1970
THE OBSERIJER. 





THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

Letters to the Editor 
right thing (to use the sidewalks) class I would like to express my
Subtle racism 

and so help to improve the vehement objection to the community in which we live. recently announced plans forEditor: But two wrongs do not make a graduation and urge my fellow"Students Suckered: Phony right. classmates to reconsider theirMagazine Deal" in your March 
plans for the coming night. Any
II edition displays subtle racism I am reminded of two stories. ceremony however abridgedwhich must not pass unchas­
:::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::~=~=~~=~=~=~=~:::::~:~:~:::~:~:~:~:::::~:~:~:~:~:::::~:!:::::::::::~:::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:·:·
There was a head-on crash of would be an obscene mockery oftised. 
two crack trains directly in front what we have "really learned just 
J1m Rocap: Disease of Racism
The story reads, "Saturday of a switch tower, and because as donning a cap and gown 
This is the first of a series of columns in The Observer by
afternoon, students of Flanner the accident could have been would be an obscene mockery of 
members of Students Against Racism. -ed.
and Keenan were visited by a averted by the prompt handling who we really are. Isn't it dear 
spurious magazine solicitor. The of the switch levers from the for all to see? We must wake up Many people when they hear the word "racism" become very man, a tall, young black, con­tower, the officials conducting from ceremony! defensive. It becomes a far away word, applicable to the Ku Klux vinced the students to purchase the inquiry were anxious to Klan, the deep South Wallace et al. Very seldom it seems, do we subscriptions..." question the man in the tower As long as people are being look for it in our own institutions, in our own behavior. 
who could have prevented the killed in our world whoever Over the next few months, we will explore in various ways our Had this scoundrel been Cau­
destruction. They asked him: pr0spers in it is guilty of murder. disease of racism. We feel this is necessary not only because of the casian, would the story have 
"How long had you been work­There simply can be no Art or conflict that canresult from our misunderstanding of the reactions of branded him "a tall, young ing for this railroad when the Science or Philosophy as long as the people who experience our racism, but also because of the white'"! I think not. 
accident occurred?" as he took there is murder. In the name of harmful effects racism has on white people. Many of the problems the witness stand. "Four days" Life I call for a moratorium on that are supposed to make it difficult for the black man to obtainLikely, it was an uninten­he answered. "Now tell us about "education." Our teachers and manhood in our society are magnified versions of the repressiontional act, but ignorance is no this wreck. What did you see priests and coaches and enter­most white people experience. However, since the society does notlonger an excuse. Such unwit­from your post in the tower?" tainers are brutal and pathetic force him to live and starve in the ghetto or reservation since histing, unconscious racism has "Well here's how it was. I'm lies. There can-be no Truth or skin color does not put him in second-class citizenship 'in a landpolarized this campus and pre­lookin' up the track an' see No. Beauty or Sanctity or Victory or where humaneness is measured by number, most white people arevented Notre Dame from at­28 comin' down licki ty split. Joy until the murder stops. The left in the paradoxical role of oppresser and nigger, without beingtaining the status of "true Festival of the Arts is a fraud. aware of either. Because of our physical well being compared to andcommunity." 
derived from the suffering of peoples of color at home and abroad
The Camus Conference was an 
we too often wallow in our affluence. However, the struggle of
outrage. Sacred Heart Church
For The Observer's part, may 

colonized peoples, including those within the mother country, has
must be sold to purchase band­
I suggest a guideline which most now become more than a reaction to poverty. It has become an
ages and food for bleeding and
metropolitan newspapers have assertion of a new and human man.
starving children. Sporting
adopted: Identify a man by his We must realize that for us the Third World movement can be
events, concerts and movies
race only wh~n it has a very both a threat and a promise.
must be boycotted. The Biafra
direct bearing on the story. And Racism has been used. in reference to almost every phenomena
Relief Fund and the T~m
for our part, may I suggest that involving race, and therefore, before suggesting where our racism lies 
Dooley Drive are perpetuating a
we identify each other by race specifically, we should define what we mean by the term. Basically
dangerous illusion (our world).
not at all. 
the terms "prejudice," and "racism."
So long as we give charity
Sincerely, Prejudice in this situation is simply the belief that peoples of color
instead of ourselves we are
Terry O'Neil are inferior, it is an attitude. Racism on the other hand, refers to the
salving the victims of the world 
complex of white behavior, which regardless of motivation, insure
with our right hand and murder­
Then I looks up the other way
Editor's note: Point well white "superiority" through exercise of the white skin privilege.
on the same track an' there's No. ing them with out left.
taken. The two terms are quite different, but certainly no mutually
43 comin' head-on." "Yes, Yes," In place of commencement exclusive. Rather, prejudiced attitudes are usually expressed in racistsaid the investigators, " and
"L3zy thinking" propose an ending. A last judge­behavior and racist behavior tends to create the stereo-types desired 
what did you do?" "Well, I say ment. A cosmic conspiracy trail. by prejudiced people. For example, students yelling "nigger" whenEditor: to myself," said the man in the The connection between the blacks protest during a football game is blatant prejudice. PeopleI appreciate John Kubn's tower, "Ain't that a hell-of-a­grins on the faces of Notre Dame maybe should have looked at ~he racism around them, perhaps to 
comments on my letter of Feb. way to run a railroad'!" 1 
men and the grimaces on the try and understand the frustratton of black students and that could25 wherein he defends students faces of the world's victims must b_e justly expressed in much more "offensive" ways than carrying aIf the man in the tower hadwho walk across the lawns. I finally be known. Notre Dame's stgn around a football field. Prejudice and racism are reinforcingquit griping to himself about thehesitate to label his comments as 
guilt is our country's guilt and cycles.
imperfections of the actions ofan example of "lazy thinking" Another important distinction we would like to define is between
God's guilt. The guilty will
others and instead acted respon­
that go along with "lazy feet" racism refers to the racist behavior stemming from individual acts,
oppose my plan. That means all
sibly himself, he could have
because I am sure they were Institutional racism, then, is the complex of social, economic,
of us more or less, including
sincerely intended. However, I saved the day and averted political, psychologicl and status systems that, again, regardless of
myself. We are so doped up with 
must say that his thoughts destruction. Perhaps it behooves motivation, promote and perpetuate white supremacy.
dogma that we can no longer
all of us to stop "passing the
amount to "passing the buck" to see. Like the sheep who gra­This distinction has important ramifications that perhaps, an 
someone else for the wrong buck"-and remember the story example would help point out. In 1965, four black girls were killed
duated with our fathers and our
about one of our former Presi­
action of an individual. There is when a church was bombed in Birmingham; understandably the
grandfathers and were slaughter­
dents (I think it was Harry
too much refusal to accept the ed in the two world wars we will country reacted with shock to this blatant act of individual racism. 
responsibility for one's own Truman) who had a sign on his However, few people seem concerned about the thousands of black
attend graduation and be con­
actions. desk in the White House which babies that die because of the poor medical facilities provided for
sumed in the final fire which
read: THE BUCK STOPS HERE' blacks. (The infant mortality rate for blacks in this country is more
prophets call World War lii but
We admit that no architect, Sincerely yours, On·e who has than double that of whites.) Th~ medical institutions which
for which there will be no
no planner of paths, and even no been using the walks here for 20 probably were not creat~9 specifically to murder black children to
historians. When that awful time
student is perfect. But to find an years, k_e~p the black.community from growing, nevertheless, succeeds in
comes and History Departments
excuse in someone else's mistake Rev. R. J. Lochner, C.S.C. ktlhng more chtldren than a large number of bom !) muniers c Juld 
finally realize their nothingness,
as a reason for our making a Assistant University Chaplain dJ..
historians will know what could It ts no longer necessary for an individual to be racist in thissecond mistake is nothing more have ended history and saved society, "with all the benevolence in the world, he can still benefitthan "passing the buck" when everything but their jobs·_ that from the oppression of people of color."In the history of ourwe could, by our own action 
Senior fellow we are all one.
make a contribution to the good Peter DuBois
of the society in which we Hve Editor: by making the effort to do the 
As a member of the Senior 318 Carroll 
Business Mgr.: Bruce Reick 
The opinions expressed in the 
Ad. Mgr.: Bruce Barker 
editorials, news analyses, and
Photography Editor: Mike Murphy

Accountant: John Maher 
columns of The Observer are
Night Editor: Cliff Wintrode

News Editor: Glen Corso 
solely the opinions of the authors
Layout Design: Phil Barth

Asst. News Editor: Don Ruane 
and editors of The Observer, and
Layout: Ann Therese Darin

SMC News Editor: Prue Wear 
do not necessarily reflect the
Bro. Patrick Carney

Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, 
views of St. Mary's College, the
Headlines: Frank Weigand

Ann Gonway, Jeanne Sweeney 
University of Notre Dame, their
Ad Layout: Barb Duensing

Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin 
administrations, faculty, or stu­
Night Controller: Tom Duffy

Feature Editor: Dave Stauffer 
dent bodies. 

society, a lot of "vicious circles" have been instituionalized so that with the best of intentions we can benefit from halls built from money stolen from South American Indians, or for that matter, live on land stolen from the Potauatomi-tribe-all without any concern. 
It is important to note, then, that it is institutional racism that is the cause of the problems existing today. Any actions solely aimed at individual racism are directed toward symptoms, and therefore, is self-perpetuating. Furthurmore, it cannot be emphasized enough that racism exists in behavior and may therefore, actually be exhtbtted by people and institutions whose intention was quite the opposite. For example much of the Civil Rights movement had whites dominating blacks, thus perpetuation on both sides the racist paternalistic relationship. Any anti-racist activity then must primarily focus on the actions of institutions and it is towards the examination of this that we direct our column. 
THURSOA Y, MARCH 12, 1970 THE OBSERIJER. 
PAGE 5 

Scenes from election day 



!lmerica presents its best all-folk entertainment hill of the y.car this Friday and Saturday evening. Located in Flanner basement, this coffeehouse has entertained over l000 people the past four weekends with both local and national groups. 
Bob White, who America manager John Fonseca calls one of the best traditional folk singers anywhere, will perform this weekend. lie has sung in collcchouscs from New York to California, not missing many areas in hi.!tween. llowevcr, this is his first appearance in Indiana. 
White is a favorite at coffeehouses in the Ann Arbor area, where people have discoverl.!d that he brings an originality and freshnt:ss to traditional songs that recall Woodie c;uthrie. The Midugan !Jai/y has con~istently given Boh Whitc great reviews: 
Something comes through Boh Whites songs that you don't ji"nd muclz these days, a deepfe/t optimism. He gathers tlze audience into a quiet sense of life. Singing songs that capture the deepest feeling of people. . . lie captures and keeps lzis audience. 
The moving, country sounds of "The Bluegrass <;entlemen" will counterpoint perfedly the balanced, coherent ballads and humorous songs sung by White. Those who look in the Notre Dame l;olk Festival last year will remember and appreciate the happy, alive sound of "The Bluegrass (;entlernen" as the banjo, mandolin, guitar, bass, and fiddle pick and pulse thcir country way through 
original Appalachian Mountain tuncs. 
Thcy'rc good and a rare delight for most 
of us. "The Bluegrass Gcntlcmcn" will 
appear on Friday night only. 
!.ike Bob White, the campus group 
"Softly Spokcn" from Kccnan will 
perform both Friday and Saturday nights. 
Though this smooth tonc troupc is not so 
widely known as somc othcrs on campus, 
their blending of guitars, four malc 
voices, and a solo fcmale voice give a 
pleasing resonance. 

Friday night entertainment in America 
will hegin at 9:00 and continue until I :00 
a.m., fcaturing Bob White, "The Blucgrass 
Gcntlemen", and "Softly Spokcn." 
Saturday, ,tmerica will open at 11:00, 
after the "Fifth Dimension" conccrt, and 
dosc at I: 00. Bob White and "Softly 
Spokcn" will cn tcrtain. Saturday 
admission is rcduced to $ .75 a couple 
and $ .50 single. 

;I merica is not just a room that scrvcs as a coffcehousc. It is a full-dimensional entcrtainment vcnture that turns into an advcnture of sound and light that op!imizcs artistically thc hcauty of the room and technically thc quality of the sound and light cquipmcnt. In addition, food and drinks pizza, sandwiches, and ,snacks as wcll as cight types of coffee and many soft drinks -arc scrvcd at tablcs by 
waitresses. 

Juniors can show their parents a good 
timc this weekend by bringing them to 
A merica. They'll enjoy it too. 
Non-juniors, come alone or with a datc 
Friday, or Saturday aftcr the conccrt. In 
any cvent, come and enjoy yourself! 
Dejected Tom Thrasher alone with his thought.'!. 
Aebersold to presentconcert-lecture 
Jazz musJctan Jarncy Aebersold will admit to being an instructor first and performer second, but his students m New Albany, Ind., and his audiences across America have becn hard prcsscd to recognizc any distinction. 
The question will be re-opened for discussion Sunday, March 15, when the Jamey Aebcrsold Quintet presents a concert-lecturc at the University of Notre Dame. Curtain is·2 p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Admission is $1 at thc door. 
Acbersold. primarily an alto and soprano saxophonist, is a professor of music at Indiana University -New Albany cxtension and a faculty mcmber at two summer jazz clinics. He rccently composcd "A New Approach to Jazz Improvisation," an LP record, complete with instruction booklet. 
Notrc Dame audicnces are familiar to Jamcy. In I963, he was voted best saxophonist at the Univcrsity's annual Collegiate Jazz Festival. And, in 1964, his septet was judged bcst CJ F combo. This year, Aebersold comc to the campus with a dual purpose. lie will descrihc varicd jazz idioms and styles, then join other mcmbers of the quintet to illustrate these techniqucs. 
Teaming with Jamey will hc: Tyronc Brown, a bassist from Philadelphia who recorded with singcr Billie Paul; She!by Janes, a pianist and music major at Indiana Univcrsity-Bloomington; Charlie Craig, a drummer from Louisvillc, Ky., whosc background includes a stint with pop artist Brenda Lec; Ken Slone a trumpcter and classmate of Shclby Ja~es at IU, who hails from New Albany, Aebersold's hometown. 
The concert-lecture is co-sponsored by Notre Dame's Black Studies Program and thc 1970 Collcgiatc Jazz Festival. 

Jazz musician Jamey Aebersold 

r 
I f 
~ THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 1970 
I 711E OBSERVER.
PAGE 6 
I I I I I 
Open house for Graduate Counseling slated 
I 
I 
I by Pat Dermody 
Loftis, a representative of the I I "We live in an age when Counseling Center said in an I everyone has become concerned interview with The Observer I for their environment. However, yesterday.
I 
true awareness of environment Rev. Loftis went on to ex­
I I means something more than plain that "Here at Notre Dame,I pollution and the misuse of one of the greatest ab.uses of our natural resources," Rev. Robert environment is the dichotomy 
Hair Styling the L'ontinentai Way-l!..uropean Layer Cut, Hair Coloring and Straightening-Specials for studeiits 
Our Motto: "Have long hair and be well groomed" 
For appointment call 234-0811 Continental Hair Styling 306 Sherland Bldg. COrner Michigan-Jefferson 

Certified Master Stylists The Beron and Miss Treve to serve and 
pamper you 

that exists between the under­time." graduate and graduate schools. Rev. Loftis ~aid that much of Much of what draws national what takes place in the Coun­attention is unknown to the seling Center is unknown to the students of the university." students on campus. The center 
It is for this reason that the provides a variety of services for Counseling Center, a division of the university community. 
the Institute for Graduate Stu­Vocational, personal, and dies in education is holding an group counseling are available to open house for undergraduates any student who wishes to 
interested in the Graduate Pro­explore the possibilities offered gram for Counseling and Gui­him by this program. dence Psychology. Outreach activities are also The students of the depart­offered by the Center. These 
ment are holding the open house activities are an attempt to from l-4 p.m. Friday in the control and to interact with the Counseling Center, Room 3 I 5 in wider environment of the stu­the Administration Building. dent. Some of these activities Father Loftis said that the have been running groups in students "will be happy to different halls, working with explain their field or any of the groups in the various colleges of other major concentrations of­the University, and the study of fered by the Institute at that personal perspectives in non -violence. 
The Center is staffed by counselors who have earned advanced degrees in counseling through departments of psych­ology or education. They are augmented by counselor trainees drawn from the doctoral pro­gram in counseling. These train­ees all have master degrees in counseling and are further devel­oping their skills in counseling by means of intensively super­vised experience in the Coun­seling Center. 
The Institute for Graduate 
Studies in Education is geared to 
innovate change in education. It 
prepares the Graduate Students 
to be professionals in their fields 
and seeks to place these people 
in responsible positions of secon­
dary and higher education. 
Hopefully these people will be 
agents of change who can 
sensitively respond to the pres­
sing needs for creativity in the! 
educational system. 

Much of the desired inno­
vation in terms of creative 
curriculum, interdepartmental 
classes, the concern for the 
student on a personal level, and 
opportunities for individual 
growth are in operation in the 
Counseling and Guidance Sec­
tion. 

Pathet l.ao want talks 
VIENTIANE (UP!) -Premier Prince Souvanna Phouma said yesterday the Laotian govern·· ment welcomed the Pathet Lao proposal for peace talks pro­vided the Communist overture was not a "diversionary man·· euver" to cloak future military operations. 
A Pathet Lao emissary is 
expected to arrive in Vientiane 
on Friday with letters for 
Souvanna and King Savanna 
Vathana from Prince Souphan­
ouvong, leader of the North 
Vietnamese backed Laotian 
Communist faction. 

An announcement after a 
cabinet meeting presided over by 
Souvanna stressed the royal 
Laotian government has long 
favored discussions with the 
P~thet Lao "rather than con­
tinue the fighting with foreign 
assistance to the great prejudice 
of the country and the popula­
tion." 

There was no elaboration of 
the term "foreign assistance." 
But the cabinet statement obvi­
ously referred to the participa­
tion of both North Vietnamese 
and U.S. military forces in the 
Laotian war. 

The French government Wed­
nesday called for the end of all 
outside government intervention 
in Laos and announced its 
readiness to help reestablish 
peace on the basis of the 1962 
Geneva agreements guaranteeing 
the Southeast Asian kingdom's 
neutrality. 
The cabinet statement said: 

"The royal Lao government 
welcomes favorably the proposi­
tion which has just been mack 
by the Pathet Lao because it~is 
the first sign of talks and of 
peace from the Pathet Lao ... 
"The Laotian problem must 
be resolved among the Laoti<~ns 
themselves without foreign inter­
ference or pressure of any sort." 
It said the government hoped 
the Communist offer "has been 
put forward in all sincerity andl 
that it will not constitute a 
diversionary maneuver to mask 
operations under preparation."­
THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 1970 
PAGE 7

THE OBSERJII& ­
US Senate supports lowering of voting age 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-The Sen<.~te refused yesterday to kill a proposed amendment to the 1965 Voting Rights Act which would lower the voting age to 18 in national. state, and local elections, effective Jan. I, 1971. 
The test vote indicated solid Senate support for reducing the voting age, but there was still no 
•ndic<tlion how soon the St:na!t: would be <tblc to vote on the proposal itself. 
After an afternoon of voting on llmendmen ts. Sen. Russt:ll B. Long, (D. La.,) marched into the Senate <tnd, unexpectedly, made a motion to table the amend­ment whkh was offered to the proposed five year extension of the 1965 Voting Rights Act. Long's proposal was beaten 62 to 21. 
Although not a single voice was raised against the idea of granting IR year olds the vote, the Senate had been bogged down all d<ty in its attempts to reach a decision. 
An anticipated showdown was blocked by Sen. James B. Allen, 
(D. Ala.,) who offered a series of changes. '\sked how many more amendments he would propose, Allen said "I will offer them one at a time." 
There was no indication how many amendments Allen would offer but at the t:nd of his st:cond, he told the Senate, "I hope I'll have time on subse­quent <.~mendments to conclude my remarks." Then he told reportt:rs there would be no vote Wednesday. 
Nearly ewrybody backed AI-len's amendment to add the words "except as required by the Constitution" to the voting age proposal. The vote was R4 to 7 and advocates of the 18 year old vote contended it would have no effect on the measure. 
Allen's second amendment, which would have eliminated penalties of five years in prison or a $5,000 fine for anybody denying the vote to 18 year olds, 
An important key to the mechanism of inheritance will be discussed at a microbiology seminar at 12:30 p.m. Wednes­day (March 18) in Room 141 of the Radiation Building. 
Dr. Nick Cozzarelli, researcher in biochemistry at the University of Chica~o. will soeak on "DNA Polymerase in E. coli." The polymerase is an enzyme respon­sible for the duplication of DNA, the basic genetic material r in every cell. 
ND and SMC Students 
Are invited to a gabfest with 
Professor Messbarger, Chairman, English Dept. 
Sunday at 8:00 PM 
Call Bobbl 4236 
Arguing for his amendment, Mansfield said, "This is the only chance we've got....to give IR year olds, 19 year old~, and 20 year olds...a small, wee voice" in setting policy. 
"Maybe we're afraid of these youngsters. Maybe they're too smart for us," Mansfield said. "Maybe they'll take some of our jobs." 
Rejecting arguments that the Senate wait for a Constitutional amendment, Mansfield said he was not sure that would ever happen. 
Pointing to Sen. Jennings Randolph, (D. W.Va.), Mansfield said the West Virginian had offered such a Constitutional amendment for the first time in 
194) Senate Democratic leader Mike Mansfield, who sponsored the 18 year old vote amend­ment, sat by grimly as Allen 
produced his hand written a­mendments. 
Despite overwhelming support for lowering the voting age to 18, the Mansfield proposal ran into strong opposition from senators who argued it had to be accomplished through a Consti­tutional amendment. They were backed by the Nixon Adminis­tration. 
Rap Brown courthouse bombed 
CAMBRIDGE, Md. (UPI) ­
Authorities sought  an  unidenti­ 
fied  white  woman  yesterday  as  
the  chief  susped  in  an  early  
morning  bombing  that  caused  
$100,000  damage  to  a  court­ 

house where black militant II. Rap Brown originally was to have been tried, the governor's office announced. 
A spokesman for Gov. Marvin Mandel said three witnesses had given information about an alleged getaway car and its license plates which pointed to a woman suspect. Stat<! Police Lt. Col. Thomas Smith confirmed this and said the "white female had been seen in the courthouse at a late hour in the afternoon yesterday just before closing." 
Earlier a spokesman for Man­del and local officials said a white woman had been taken into custody, but this was later denied. 
Rumors and confusion swept 
K•ashnagrat.·t.·ed by strong support ~~~~~~~~t;;edc~~;t~irc~ittrco~r~
• ' butldmg only 24 hours after two 
(continued from page I) 
. . . .

Alter descrtbmg h1s general feelings as numb but happy, Krashna talked about what the effort meant to him. lie said he was most gratified by the unex-Pectedly strong support he had 
h

received from all over t e campus in being the most popular candidate ever in stu­dent body election history. "l"he real fat"th that these people h<td in us, and their belief in the things that we were talking about, that's been the best part of it for me," Kmshna said. Student Body Vice President Elect Mark Winings arrived at the victory party late, after contacting his parents and telling them of the results. His hair dripped from champagne but he beamed the same broad grin he had worn throughout the cam­paign. The spirit of the landslide had not diminished. 
"I never felt better in my 
life," Winings said. "We're going 
to have to work like hell but 
we're just glad to have the 
chance to do it. Dave is one hell 
of a man, just about the best 
person I've ever known. I know 
he'll do a great job simple 
because he's so human. I don't 
think we can get a better 
president than that. 
"I think everyone on this 
campus is ready to muve in the 
direction we've been leaning 
toward for years. I believe this 
was a mandate but not just for 
two people. It was for the kind 
of university that is ready to 
move together and get down to 
where it shoulll he." 
The headquarters echoed 
praise for tht: newly elected 
student officials. Campaign man­
ager Bob Pohl hugged his tw~ 
candidates and accepted theu 
· 

thanks for the crucial job of organization that he had put together and labQred on con­st<.~ntly for the past two weeks. 
"Dave and Mark did it all," Pohl said. "We had great people 
behind us and they all did a terrific job but those two guys made the difference. It was long and it was 1-tard but I'm too happy to be tt"retl Evcrytht"ng we 
· 

did was worth it. The huge 
margin was unbelievable; we never expected it, but we should have. Dave and Mark are god­damn good people and that's the reason why they won." 
Alumni Hall captain Bob Minnix voiced strong confidence that Krashna would bring about the kind of personal government he had run on. 
"I've known Dave for two years," Minnix said. "And from the start I knew he was a guy 
'witu lre~>:l ideas and one with the convictions to follow them up. Dave won't say anything he doesn't intend to do. This is the best thing that could happen to Notre Dame, the only way we can !\O now is forward." Dave Schmidt, South Quad captain for the Krashna forces said he felt that the election indicated that the Student Body was finally moving toward the kind of community that would make it "an even greater univer­sity. It shows the people here are not apathetic representatives of the middle class, 'but people who care about making this place all it can be, and will be if Dave has anything to say about it." Speakers Bureau Chairman Dan Moore said the victory proved that there was a new 
Notre Dame.. one that people had been underestimating for a long time. 
In speaking of some of his he would do what he had don~ 

throughout the campaign, get 
out and talk to people, try to get 
them thinking and moving. 
"We've been trying to get 
students to make an invcstiga­
tion of life, as students, as 
people, and as potential mem­
bas of the free citv. If we can do nothing cis~, we want to make people beco.me aware of 
themselves as individuals, past
the mere academic context. If we do that, we'll have worked 
wonders." 
Winings offered his thanks to 
all the people he had come into 
contact with, saying they had 
meant more to him than any 
other factor in the campaign. 
"Just meeting the people has 
been great, with those people all 
behind us we knew we'd won 
the election long before any vote 
was ever cast." 
"We have the people here at Notre Dame," Krashna added, "We know with their help we can make Notre Dame all every­one probably thought it was before we cam~:: here. I have only tried to be Dave Krashna and do the things that I can do for myself and others. If we can get 
.everyone to be himself and do his part we'll get an awful lot of good things done. I'm sure of that. And I'm anxious to get at it." 
Notre Dame Glee Club Spring Concert Friday, March 13 7:00PM 
Washington Ha11 
M ICROBl OLOGY SEMINAR ;_P.:.:Ia.:.:.:ns:....:f:.:::o.:....r.:.:.ne~x:.:t.:...Y..:.:ea:.:..r..:.K:_ra....:.s:_hn_a_s_ai_d__~._...!A~d~m~lS=S~io=n:........::.F_r=-e-=-=-e-j 
Negro men, one of them an . .·. t f B k"lled
assoua e o rown, were 1 
b 1 · · a a ear Bel
y an exp oston 111 • c· r n · A. Md 85 ·1 away.
If, ., ml es 
K d II d
en a exten s 
1 d dI"

pr0p0S3 ea 1ne 
It was announced today by Mike Kendall, assistant director' of the Notre Dame Model United Nations to be held April 8 and 9 in Stepan Center, that the deadline for submitting reso­lutions has been extended. 
The new deadline is Monday, March I 6, which replaces the earlier March 10 date. According to Kendall, the resolutions should be submitted to him either in person or by mail. Kendall's address is 429 Lyons. 


Brown's riot trial was moved from Cambridge to Bel Air because of racial tensions here. 
Mandel ordered the historic state house in Annapolis sur­rounded by state police, then flew to Cambridge to confer with State's Attorney William Yates, local officials, Congress­man Rogers C. B. Morton and Sen. Charles M<tthias, (R. Md.),. Morton's Congressional District contains Cambridge. 
Yates, who is the prosecutor for th.e Brown trial, said he thought the l<ttest bombing was linked to the trial, but he did not elaborate. The explosive device apparently was pl<.~ntcd in a lady's lounge on the second 

STUDENT AUTO FINANCE PLAN 
No payments for ninety days! New or used cars to qualified graduating seniors. Lower payments 
aPailable  for  first  1/3 of contract  with  nominal  
down  payme nts.  For  more  exact  information,  
contact­ 

PAGE 8 
THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 1970 
-
N D seeks revenge and regional .title 
· · . . . . . 
by Mtke Pavlm llhnms IS averagmg 33.7 pmnts
This season, the Wildcates ad-d 13 2 reb0 unds
Observer Sports Editor per game an · . . · 
· d ministered a I 02-1 00 defeat on Q · k d fme
With expectation an revenge u1c an possessmg .a ..
D k the Irish in Louisville; that's h 1 1 th I h f ts
in the air, Notre arne ta es on touc , sse gave e ns I
K k W"ld t t · ht "neutral" Louisville, by tlle way. · D b A d th
the entuc y 1 ca s omg back m ecem er. n e man 
at 7:00 at Columbus. In the Adolph Rupp now has to face a who killed ND in that game is second half of the Regional, truly neutral crowd in Colum-Mike Pratt, a senior forward who Jacksonville battles Iowa. bus. threw in 42 points. Pratt carries 
The difficulty facing the Irish Kentucky has had an amazing a 19.7 scoring average and a 9.5 in the NCAA Regional is season. With hopes for his fifth rebounding mark which is rather evidenced by the fact that all national championship seeming-good for a man of only 6-4. Issei three foes are ranked above ND Iy dashed early with the injury and Pratt both made first team in the final UPI poll and ND was to Mike Casey, Rupp set about All-SEC. ranked 8th. The victory over building his attack around Dan And how about those guards, Ohio University last Saturday Issei and Mike Pratt, while trying the sore spot'! Well, I doubt if was the first Regional win for to find a set of guards. Later in too many people even heard of the Irish since 1958. And in that the season, Bob McCowan and Terry Mills, Jim Dinwiddie, Stan year, it was the Wildcats who Randy Poole were dismissed for Key, and Kent Hollengeck be­demolished NO title hopes disciplinary reasons. Yet some-fore this year, but this quartet 89-56. how, the great Baron has has done wonders for the Baron. 
There has never been any love managed to build up a powerful 6-2 junior Mills is averaging 8.6, lost between the two schools or scoring machine, only once-while the other three have between the two coaches. Ken-beaten and number one ranked. combined for 11.9. tucky has been merciless on the 6-8 center Issei has been the The other forward is 6-6 soph Irish in the past few seasons. unifying factor for Rupp. A Tom Parker, a 9.9 scorer who sat Dec. 29, 1964 was the last time consensus All-American this out the first half of the season. ND came out on top, 111-97. year, the senior from Batavia, The SEC picks an All-Sopho­
more team every year and Parker was the top vote-getter. Key also made the first team. 
The Wildcats will probably stay in their usual man-to-man defense. Rupp did not install anything special for Pete Mara­vich so he'll probably put the 6-3 Dinwiddie on Austin Carr. 
On Tuesday, Irish coach Johnny Dee said that he planned to start Jay Ziznewski and John Gallagher in the same line-up used last Saturday. To say Jay will have his hands full is to make an understatement. Issei is quicker, but Jay has the edge in strength and he many just give Issei a good punishing under­neath. Gallagher and Collis Jones will draw the forward jobs and defensively, either match-up leaves something to be desired. The logical move would be to put Jones on Pratt, but this WO)lld leave Gallagher on a man two inches taller. And I don't think John can handle Pratt without help. 
Dee will probably shuttle in Sid Catlett and Tom Sinnott around the tO-minute mark. This strategy worked perfectly against Ohio U. as the Ziznew ski-Catlett duo grabbed 21 
rebounds between them. Catlett has been playing tremendous defense in the past few games. 
It will be hard for Jackie Meehan to improve upon his 17 assists last game, but the Phila­delphia junior has the Irish offense moving smoothly. Jack will be able to get relief help from Mike O'Connell if neces­sary, although Dee pointed out that Mike has missed ten days of practice and three games. 
The Irish are hoping that Carr retains that magic touch he exh1 bited against Ohio. 61 
· · · · k d T points will be tough to beat, but
Steady Colhs Jones 1s so good all the ttme that he IS overloo e . O· h . .. . . b bl
11
night the Irish will need his defensive ability as well as his usual point t e Jhumor cafptam Wbl proda Y 
' . not ave to ace a ox-an -one
and rebound productiOn. 
ND 27-game basketball statistics 
Won 21, Lost 6 PLAYER, POS. GA FGA FGM PCT FTA FTM PCT REB AVG PTS AVG Austin Carr, G 27 725 401 .553 252 207 .821 222 8.0 1009 37.4 Collis Jones, F 27 461 211 4<;~ II<; 71 .617 342 12.7 493 18.3 Sid Catlett, C 26 241 101 .419 69 32 .464 203 7.8 234 9.0 Mike O'Connell, G 24 135 56 .415 61 42 .689 69 3.0 154 6.4 Tom Sinnott, F 25 126 56 .444 22 11 .500 85 3.4 123 4.9 Jim Hinga, F 25 80 28 .350 33 22 .667 61 2.4 78 3.1 Jackie Meehan, G 25 68 30 .441 24 16 .667 46 1.8 76 3.0 Jay Ziznewski, C 21 57 31 .544 35 12 .343 72 3.4 74 3.5 John Gallagher, F 17 47 23 .489 14 10 .714 IS 0.9 56 3.3 i'Doug Gemmell, F 16 52 27 .519 16 9 .563 43 2.7 63 3.9 *John Pleick, C 16 135 61 .452 42 24 .571 107 6.7 146 9.1 t Fractured ankle 2/21/70 *Ineligible 2/1/70 TEAM REBOUNDS 
171 6.3 NOTRE DAME 27 2127 I 025 .481 683 456 .667 I 436 53.2 2506 92.8 OPPONENTS 27 2053 892 .434 675 462 .6841257 46.5 2266 83.9 

defense. Austin scored 43 pomts lately. And •' t>ntul:ky will not 
agai·nst the Wildcats earlier and play slowdown. So look for a
gl
undoubtedly has Rupp doing close, high-scoring strug e some deep thl.nking. tonight with a crucial factor Both teams have been playing being the presence of a real] their top ball of the season neutral crowd. 


JIM MURRAY 
The Great Equalizer 
@ 1970, los Angeles Times 
Lincoln may have been the Great Emancipator in race relatwns, 
but sport has been the Great Equalizer. 
For some, the only immediate effect of freedom I 00 years ago 
was that they were now free to pay rent for the quarters they ' 
formerly occupied for nothing. 

But the myths of racial inferiority crumbled swiftly under the 
fists of Jack Johnson and Joe Louis, the feet of Jesse Owens, the 
strength of Fritz Pollard, Brud Holland, Kenny Washington and Jim 
Brown, the bat of Jackie Robinson, the putts of Charlie Sifford and 
the rebounds of Bill Russell. 

Landmark decisions of the Supreme Court, federal troep-escorts, 
omnibus house bills could not have the crushing effect on white 
supremacists that the sight of Max Schmeling thudding to the floor 
did. 

In the words of Roy Wilkins, athletic prowess ministered to group 
esteem in a way nothing else could. 
A football made Jim Brown a matinee idol. A basketball has led 
to the U.N., a track suit to the cabinet, a baseball to governors' 
staffs. 

And, now, of all things, a tennis racket is afflicting apartheid half 
a world away. 

Arthur Ashe Jr., is the first of what will surely be a long line of 
black tennis champions. As such, he is the bellwether of the U.S. 
Davis Cup team. 

South Africa is a republic which was founded by I 0 re ,gees from 
a hangman's noose in England and a shipwrecked company of Dutch 
sailors. It has a vested interest in white supremacy because it is paid 
off in diamonds, gold, elephants, and cheap labor. The white 
population is less than 20'.Yt. Naturally, it is not interested in 
promoting any contest between white and black, including war. At 
least, not on equal terms. 1 mean, today you lose a tennis .match, 
tomorrow a diamond mine. They have banned such thmgs as television in order to keep the blacks from abandoning their "while­man -come-from-big-hi rd-in-the-sk y -with -stic ks-tha t-e xplode" men tal­ity. 
But South Africa prizes athletic supremacy only slightly less than white. It tried to crack the Olympics with a subterfuge of two separate-but-equal track -and-field teams. And it covets the Davis Cup, the British Open and a gold medal precisely because 1ts infamous policies have otherwise incurred the obloquy of the world, including that of its ancestral points of origin, Holland anti England 
Black militants in the U.S. and white moderates in Sweden wanted to ban South Africa for Davis Cup competition as long as three years ago when Australia had the cup and South Africa had to win the European zone to meet the U.S. for the right to play Australia. Arthur Ashe was for the boycott then, to the point of refusing to take to the court if the U.S. and South Africa won. But Bob Kelleher erstwhile Davis Cup captain, suggested a better plan: "Let them wi'n the ~~uropean zone, and then Wl' will opt to play the challenge zone in South Africa. They will then have to default both a singles match and a doubles match to you and therefore the Davis Cup. unless they change their laws." 
Ashe agreed. Unfortunately, South Africa lost to West Germany before the test could be made. 
The next year, South Afr.ica, under fire again, agreed that in the event of a Davis Cup confrontation in its country with the U.S., il. would accept Arthur Ashe. But only as a Davis Cup representative. After all, it could have a white-out lo-·JIIy for the few days of the Davis Cup "tie." 
Unfortunately, South Africa lost again in the interzones, this time to England. 
This year, Arthur Ashe, despairing of counting on the South African Davis Cup team, petitioned for a visa and a seeding in the South African Tennis Open. 
But South Africa showed that it has seen the lessons of Jack Johnson-Joe Louis-Jackie Robinson-Pele-et al. Eighty per cent of its population might suddenly sit up and say, "What's so great about the white man?" "Yes, Master," might go the way of "Yassuh, Boss," and be replaced by "You're next, Whitey." 
Arthur Ashe knows the lessons, too. Therefore he has politely turned' down the offers of political help from both the State Department and the Congress in a 45-minute statement of his views before a committee. But he has asked the International Lawn Tennis body to bar South Africa on the tennis court. It may turn out to be the one ·Court in which South Africa would not want to be held in cnnt•:mpt. 



