
Thrasher shows lead • final poll
1n 
Tom Thrasher and his Peterson 4% Peterson 16 small amount of the total tne1r support trom one candid-
running  mate  Greg  MurraY  Lord 1%  Dowdle 4  percentage  going  to  the  other  ate to the other. Howard, Walsh  
showed  a  strong  lead  in  last  Dowdle 1%  Lord 3  three  candidates.  The  break- and  Fisher  are  now  in  the  
night  Observer  poll.  Thrasher  Gorski 1%  Gorski I  down by classes:  Thrasher  column,  while  Mor­ 
collected  45%  of  the  vote  Undecided 13%  rissey  and  St.  Edward's  Hall  
compared to 37% for his opponent Dave Krashna. Thrasher gained a significant I 0% since last Monday, when nearly 27% of the voters were undecided. Krashna picked up 6% of the undecided electorate. The number of undecide students has decreased considerably from Monday, and  A total of 338 students were polled representing every hall on campus. The totals shown were unweighted. However, the Observer polled an equal number of students (16) from each hall, and weighted the percentage totals by population (e.g. A vote from Flanner would be given more wwight than a vote from  Vote by class When separated into i­ndividual classes, the poll also shows Thrasher's most impressive lead in the senior class where he polled nearly 47% of the votes. The candidates are  Thrasher Krashna Peterson Lord Dowdle Gorski Undecided  36 36 8 19  43 42 4 9  36 42 5 2 I 5  47 29 I 2 I I 20  support Krashna. Holy Cross is the only hall where the candid­ates now show the same percent­age. There has been some question about the validity of The Ob­server poll in contrast to the results obtained by WSND. It should be noted that The Ob­server randomly polls twice as  
the last pre-election straw poll shows only 13% still undecided. The percentage totals: Thrasher 45% Krashna 37%  Carroll.) The total vote: Thrasher 136 Krashna 124 UndeCided 54  close in the freshman and sophomore classes, but Krashna leads significantly among the juniors. Peterson is carrying 8% of the freshman class with a  Halls switch over Since the last poll, published Monday, halls have switched  many students and also weighs the results on the basis on hall population. WSND conducts only a simple random sample.  




VOL. IV No. 92 
Charges answered by Thrasher 
by Glen Corso decided on Cavanaugh as a good seens the plan as being both Student Body President hope­location. We went to Bob Pohl feasible and practicable," ful Tom Thrasher refuted (Krashna's campaign manager) Thrasher stated. 
charges leveled by SBVP hopeful who suggested Alumni as an "This has already been done Mark Winings yesterday, con­alternative. Both I and Pete on a smaller scale with the cerning the proposed debate wanted Cavanaugh, since it is leadership conference this fall. between the major three 'candi­neutral territory. Pohl refused, What I plan to do, by a direct dates. so the debate was never held," appropiation to the Kennedy "My campaign manager and Thrasher said. Institute, is to double the Peter Peterson's agreed to a Thrasher also expounded amount of minority students in three sided debate over the upon his plan for minority the program. The unique feature weekend. We both wanted a recruitment, partially in reply to of this program is that we are Tom Thrasher Greg Murray neutral hall, and we eventually charges leveled by Krashna in an bringing in not only blacks but Observer article yesterday, Puerto Ricans, Mexican­
"I've contacted the chairman Americans, and non-Catholics." of next year's Robert F. Ken­"The big change from last nedy Leadership Institute and he 
(Continued on page 3}

Krashna discusses Forum 
by Bill Carter have." trying to say," Krashna said. Krashna's running mate Mark Kmshna especially wanted to
In winding up his campaign Winings poiated out that no less include some of the fundamentallast night, SBP candidate Dave than 16 senators have already changes he has promised to workKrashna cleared up the alleged expressed support for the pro­for. "We're after some realcharges against the feasability of 
I
posal. He also said the idea was physical improvements with ourhis proposed Student Forum, receiving a great deal of support coffee houses and student centerwhile stressing the overall pur­among the hall presidents. ideas. We're supporting the artspose of his effort. Krashna said 

all the way, including finding

his candidacy had been con­Winings refuted the idea that 
and helping with the new Arts

structed toward reaching people he and Krashna had refused to 
J
Center. We'd like to see some­

and bringing the politics of debate the other candidates. 
thing of a real creative atmos­

Student Government down to "Their challenge came to us 
phere being fostered here."

the individual level. without any prior consultation 
Summing up the effort Win­

Krashna pointed out that his with us about setting up a 
ings spoke of the fundamental

Student Forum entailed no more neutral site," Winings said. "It 
goal he and Krashna had been

work for hall presidents since also did not consider the fact working toward.
the excess work involved re­that we had already set up 
Peterson citesattitudes
"We want to bring the reality

search and the Student Govern­speaking schedules and meetings 
of the individual and the hall

ment had always handled that for the time they chose. And of by Shawn Hill
into the Student Government in

aspect of the work. Once again course Dave had already agreed that political parties and faction­
a meaningful way, not in pro­Commenting on his and Rory

he wished to emphasize the to debate on WSND last night." alism at small universities are 
mises or rhetoric of change. Baruth's campaign on the eve of

positive aspects of his proposal. unnecessary and detrimental.
Krashna and Winings express­We're biggest on the social angle the election, Student Body Presi­

"The real fact is the Student Applying this philosophy to
ed their desire to avoid campus because we feel if we can do dential candidate Pete Peterson

Senate has become out of Notre Dame Peterson stated that
political traditions and stress nothing next year but provide stated, "We're basically attack­

contact with the student body, ''At this University, with only
only their own programs and the some real social outlets to ing immaturity of attitude

they have become puppet repre­positive results they hoped to 7000 undergraduates, party poli­
students that feel frustrated and toward Student Government. We

sentatives rather than the kind llcs are merely a game and our
achieve by their election. 
disappointed because they have question the attitudes of many

of concerned representatives vote will be a mandate for a 
no social life to speak of, we'll people in Student Government;

that the hall presidents could "We were disappointed about more mature approach to stu­
all the hang-ups that came up have done an awful lot. Because in some cases they're setting

be." Krashna said. "Our forum dent government. There may be would have the kind of direct from the structuring angle of our that will mean a real change of themselves up for law-school, in 
room for immaturity and egoism 
forum since it was· only one atmosphere and maybe the other cases they're feeding their

flow from the students in the in some areas of the university,
beginning of a way to get people egos."

halls that the Senate never could aspect of the things we were however, we don't feel student

together. That's what it's really Peterson next stated his government is one of them sinceall about," Krashna said. beliefs on the role of political these factors reduce the effect­Krashna wanted to urge all parties in student government. 

iveness of student government tostudents to get out and vote in He said that "On any university serve students." 
an election he felt would be very the size of ours there is no need Peterson then addressed him­close. for factional power cliques." 

self to what he considered the"I really hope people come He felt that political parties "absorption" of parts of hisout and vote not because of were necessary at large univer­platform by the other candi­blackness or whiteness or any sities, for example the University dates. "We realize that much ofother reason but the people. of Toronto which, according to our platform has been absorbedThis whole thing has been about Peterson, has 35,000 undergrads. 
by the other two candidates andpeople. Our attitude has been He pointed out, however, that if this is to he taken as an one of exposing the problems "the executive position at increasing awareness on their instead of smoothing them over, Toronto is held by a grad part of their responsibility to­working toward making this student in political science who ward the student body then we place the kind of place it really is released from academic duties 
(Continued on page 7}
Dave Krashna Mark Winings can be." Krashna stated. and is paid a salary." He feels 

Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11,1970 

Pete Peterson 


.-------------~-------------------~--------------------·----­
PAGE 2 TilE OBSERriER WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11,1970 
Radiation effects to be studied by conference 
Dr. Milton ·Burton, director of Burton and his colleagues at cesses occurring in times of a I 0 The conference will include ly edited by three monitors from the Radiation Laboratory at the Radiation Laboratory helped trillionth of a second to as short three types of presentations­Notre Dame, Dr. Alberta B. Notre Dame, will chair the first plan the conference, which will as a ten million billionth of a plenary lectures to review the Ross, assistant faculty fellow, international conference on "Pri­attract scholars from Great Bri­second. Burton explained that in general objectives of the meet­Dr. Asokendu Mozumbder, as­mary Radiation Effects in Chem­tain, Denmark, France, Canada, such infinitesimal time spans, ing, papers on recent sociate faculty fellow, and. W. istry and Biology," at Argen­Germany, Latin America and the light, which travels 186,000 accomplishments, and a novel Phillip Helman, assistant faculty tina's Atomic Energy Commis­United States who are interested miles a second, will travel a foot "rap session" of 25 scholars fellow. The finished text will be sion (CNEA) March 6-13. in chemical or biological pro-or less. called a "Conference on Very printed up, and made available Early Effects," to be held each to those who attended the morning. conference, and other scholars in 
The "rap session" idea has the field. been tried successfully as part of Burton will offer a short earlier Notre Dame conferences · introductory talk at the opening on the chemistry of water. The of the conference, and two other 
'Campus at Sea'plans revealed 

·by Architecture Department 
purpose is to encourage informal Radiation Laboratory members interaction among scholars in a
The Department of Architec­British Museum in London, the ·duct the seminar course, holds will participate in the program. 
ture announced yesterday final highly specialized field, in order

Louvre in Paris, and a trip to Masters degrees from both Yale Dr. Robert Hentz, faculty fel­
plans for its I970 "Campus at Venice where the Fiorita will be and Harvard. He has written to bring out future directions, low, will deliver the fifth plenary new methods, successes and
Sea" program for study of boarded. Then the class will numerous articles on his subject, lecture summing up the confer­museums and monuments in 20 puzzles that might not rate a
cruise the Adriatic, taking part and has led several Architectural ence, titled "The Search for the European cities. The program in study sessions, until arrival at Tours. He is also a Professional complete paper. As Burton ex­Earliest Processes," March 13. 
plained, "such conferences are

will run from June 30 to August Corfu, _Greece. Knossos, Crete; Architectural Photographer, and Dr. John L. Magee, associate supposed to explore not what
4 and will offei; "Architecture Cairo; the island of Rhodes; will give instruction in this field director of the Laboratory, will 
156: seminar in art and architec­Athens, Greece; Delphi; Dub-at various points in the tour. we know, but what puzzles us chair the afternoon session ture," a 3-credit course to be and what we ought to know-or March 12. Dr. K. Paul
rovnik and Venice conclude part As preparation for the tour,

taught by J. Daniel Selig, assist­at least strive to know." Funabashi, associate faculty fel­
I of the tour. dn orientation session will be ant professor of Architecture at Part II, beginning July 16, held in the late spring. Brief The conversation of the low, will also attend the confer­
Notre Dame. The credit is week-long session will be careful-ence.
includes a visit to Byzantine reading on Architectural Historyoptional. 
monuments in Istanbul, a trip to will be suggested at that time. Class sessions for the tour will 

Ephesus, Turkey, and a return to Basic cost for .the program,be held on the cruise ship S.S. 
Discover serendipitous
Rhodes and Athens. including round trip jet fare Fiorita, which will be equipped 

Part III is a series of trips to from New York, will be $1127 with a small architectural refer­
Palma, Tunis (Carthage of old), If only one-way fare is desired, 

spin • off in research
ence library, guide books, and 
Malta, Sicily, and Naples. The the cost is $852. If credit is color slides of the architecture 
trip ends August 4 with the desired in Architecture 156, the A revolutionary new control the Vector Biology Laboratory,to be seen. 

return to New York or Detroit University summer school fee of on insect populations that nei-Fuchs began studying the chem­The trip includes three parts. 

via Lisbon. $60 per credit hour will be ther kills nor sterilizes may be a istry of the faithful femalePart I will include a visit to the Professor Selig, who will con-added to the basic fee. Other serendipitous spin-off from basic mosquito. She will mate only


c::::::::::=::::::::::;::::::::=~;:::::::::::::;:::;:::::::::;;,;::;:::;::;::::::;~~~:;:~~~~ i terns' such as tips' additional 

research at Notre Dame. once in her life, he explained,
food (that not covered in the 

In collaboration with asso-and soon afterwards deposits a 
3-meals a day cruise-ship fee), 

ciate researcher Suk-Hee Kang, large mound of eggs--far larger
souvenirs, etc. must be added. 

Dr. Morton S. Fuchs, associate than she has ever deposited
Those interested in this 

professor o(biology, has isolated before mating. 
program should contact the 

a compound which reduces the Fuchs and Craig found that a 
Department of Ar..:hitecture at 

number of eggs a female mosqui-complex protein called matrone 
Notre Dame. Brochures and 

to will lay by at least 50 per is the key to her fidelity. The 
application forms are available 

cent. He hopes that a purified, protein is found in the semen of 
there. Applications should be 

concentrated dose of the sub-male mosquitoes, and apparently 
submitted by March 31. If there 

stance will inhibit egg laying lets the female know she has is an excess of appli<;ants, 
almost completely. Fuchs' re-mated. With the assistance of selection will be made according 
search is supported by the graduate student Edwin Hiss of to academic excellence. 
National Communicable Disease Sandusky, Ohio, Fuchs demon-Center. strated conclusively that females 
JOSS! JOBS! and more JOBS! Stu · · d 1 d
dents, Teachers. Stateside and 1 He stumbled on the egg-mjecte wit 1 matrone woul national Jobs. Recreational inhibiting compound while refuse to mate and would never Year-round Jobs; summer studying the general chemistry lay hatchable eggs. 
occupations and trades. Enjoy a tion while you earn. Hurry! The of mating and reproduction in However, he explained, mat-jobs are taken early. Write: ".10 mosquitoes. At the suggestion of rone is not a likely candidate for 
P.O. Box 475, Dept. CP 163-1 f 
calif. 95240 · ' Dr. George B. Craig, director of e fective mosquito control, since ____J _____:::_____:::.:.__...:.____~ the delicate proteins deteriorate 

New Challenges to Constitutional Democracy 
in the Atlantic Community MARCH 15, 16, 17 1970 
Student Participation is encouraged -admission free 
Sunday, March 15, 1970 8:00PM Session Chairman Stephan D. Kertesz-Director, West European Studies Program University of Notre Dame "The Interaction of Domestic and Foreign Policies"-Henry Koeppler-Warden, Wilton Park-Sussex, England 
Monday, March 16, 1970 9:00AM Session Chairman Matthew A. Fitzsimons-Editor, Review of Politics University of Notre Dame 
"Current Challenges to Democracy in the United States"-Glen Tinder-Professor of Political Science-University of Massachusetts­Boston, Massachusetts 
"Challenges to Democracy in Canada" -Douglas Verney-f'rofessor of Political Science-York University-Toronto, Canada 
2:00 PM Session Chairman Frederick J. Crosson-Dean, College of Arts and Letters University of Notre Dame 
"Challenges to"Democracy in Britain and France"-Jean Blondei-Visiting Professor of Political Science-Carleton University-Ottawa, Canada 
"The Crisis of Parliamentary Government in Italy: Some reflections 
on its causes and possible outcomes" -Giovanni Bognetti­
Professor of Law-University of Urbino-Milano, Italy 
8:00 PM Session Chairman Vincent P. DeSantis-Chairman, Department of History University of Notre Dame 
"The Withering Away of Western Liberal Democracy" ­Anthony Hartly-Editor, Interplay-New York City 

TER FOR CONTINUING 
rapidly in heat. Also, getting the 
small amounts of matrone to the Iemale presents formidable dis­
tribution problems. 
In further analyzing matrone, Hiss found that the substance is in fact a double protein, consist­ing of alpha and beta compon­ents. 
In searching for other insect compounds which might also stimulate egg-laying, Fuchs and Kang were surprised to find one that actually inhibited egg pro­duction in both fruit flies and mosquitoes. Fuchs hopes that purifying and concentrating this mysterious substance will pro­duce even more dramatic results, perhaps lowering egg production significantly. 
Fuchs expects further re­search to clarify the function of this chemical in the general process of mating and egg production. Presently, he specu­lated that the female herself may possess such an inhibitor, which keeps her egg production low before mating. The sexpeptide of the fruit fly or the alpha of the mosquito may override this inhibitor, allowing the females to produce a larger egg deposit immediately after mating. 
The Observer Is published daily during the college semester except vacations by students of the Unl· versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage 

'~------------~~~~~~~~~!!.~~~~!_!~~~~~~lio.&I.~~~Ulf.U~L------------_j__Paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11.1970 THB O&riRIIEit 
PAGE 3 







More murder charges brought • My Lai case
1n 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The f\rmy in a surprise move yes­terday brought four chargers of murder against Capt. Ernest L. Medina, the company com­mander during the alleged My Lai massacre. Medina has denied seeing, ordering or hearing re­ports of a massacre. 
Charges also were filed at Ft. McPherson, Ga., against four other military men, including an Intelligence officer, bringing to I 0 the number chaged in con­nection with the March 16, 1968, sweep in which scores of South Vietnamese villagers are alleged to have been killed. 
Medina, answering reporters' questions before televison cameras at the Pentagon Dec. 4, said: "I did not see a slaughter and none was ordered by me or reported to me. But it is possible that it could have taken place. I did see some civilian bodies. They were among the 20 to 28 

William 
by Mark Walbran 
William Kunstler, defense at­torney for the Chicago 7, will speak Sunday, March 22, at I :30 p.m., in the Stepan Center, announced Student Union Aca­demic Commissioner Pat Mc­Donough in a news conference yesterday afternoon. 
"In connection with this e­vent," said McDonough, "we support and applaud the re -sup­port given to us by Fr. Hesburgh in announcing that the Open Speaker Policy is still in effect and that he supports it fully. We expect no trouble with this event. We respect the integrity of the student body. And we expect to have a very good program." 
Pat Dowdall, former Student Union Academic Commissioner, was announced to be chairman of the event. Dowdall, said 

Constitutions ratified 
At their last meeting under 
present student government 
leaders, SMC's student affairs 
senators ratified hall constitu­
tions for Holy Cross, LeMans, 
and Regina last night. 
After accepting the surprise 
resignation of Irish McNamara sophomore senator, senators considered the constitutions. 
In explaining the senate's recommendation for hall consti­tutions, Louise McGrath, Regina Hall senator, stated, "The as­sembly is trying to give as much power as possible to the halls in forming hall governments." 
Abstaining on the hall consti­tutions, junior Margie Kromkow­ski, upset the unanimous sena­torial acceptance of the consti­tutions. To justify her action, she explained that as an off­campus senator, she was unable to judge hall life adequately. 
"The constitutions sound like they would work," she reflected, "but since I am not on a Hall Council, it is impossible for me to agree or disagree with them." 
Presented by Debbie Carvatta, freshman senator, Holy Cross Hall's constitution describes the many aspects of hall govern­ment: representation, offices, councils, meetings, elections, impeachment, and amendments. 
Citing the need for a consti­tution, Kathy Murphy, hall re­presentative, explained, "The constitution will enable us to functioq more as a community with coordinating activities and civilians I reported had been killed." 
One of Medina's platoon lead­ers, Lt. William L. Calley Jr., will be court martialed starting May 18 on charges of premeditated murder of I 02 civilians at My Lai. A squad leader there, S. Sgt. David Mitchell of Ft. Bliss, Tex., faces a court martial on charges of assault with intent to murder 3 I civilians. 
A special subcommittee formed by the House Armed Services Committee, meanwhile, reported that because of legal action unda way, it could not ascertain publicly whether a massacre actually took place at My Lai. 
The panel, headed by Rep. F. Edward Herbert, (D. La.,) said it would focus its attention instead on the Army's handling of the affair to determine whether there had been a "coverup" and whether an innocent soldier had 




Kunstler to speak 
McDonough, has been the chief negotiator in arranging Kunstler's coming to Notre Dame. 
Dowdall, who was present at the news conference, saitl... that he had been asked if any special, precautions had been taken regarding Kunstler's speech. No precautions, he said, have been taken. 

"It is our belief," said Dow­dall, ',that in careful analysis of the news regarding Kunstler's speech at Northwestern and at the University of California at Santa Barbara that the violence which took place was merely coincidental to Kunstler's speech." 
McDonough said that certain people in the administration have claimed that Kunstler's presence will precipitate vio­lence. This he feels is an insult to 
communication. This is the first step in eventual hall autonomy with other dorms. Eventually we will have our own judicial board and, therefore, relieve the pre­sent board of petty matters," she said. 
Introducing their constitu­tion, LeMans Hall senators em­phasized its purpose, "to form a hall council to serve as a communication organ." Because this hall houses more shJdents than the others, senators pur­posely made the constitution less-detailed. 
Descnbing elections and duties of officers, it also enum­crates the powers of the hall council, "to set guest fees, been wrongly prosecuted. about" March 16, 1968, th of two 

Medina, 33, of Pico Rivera, enemy suspects and the Calif., commander of Company maiming of one of them -during C of the America) Division's interrogation late that day after II th Infantry Brigade during the the sweep, and assault with a My Lai sweep, was specifically deadly weapon against a third charged with the murder of two prisoner during interrogation the unidentified persons on or following day. 
Medina and the other four charged yesterday are at Ft. McPherson outside Atlanta, Ga., and are not under confinement. 
The others are: -Capt. Eugene M. Kotouc, 35, of Ft. Omaha, Neb., charged 
(continued an page 7) 

No debt next year -Thrasher 
(Continued from page I) 
year's program is going to be the emphasis on placing these stu­dents in the halls with students of similar backgrounds. We plan to call on the Afro-American Society to assist us in this matter. It is also our objective to expand the program to two fall, and two spring sessions," Thrasher commented. 
Thrasher also addressed him­self to the problems of the student government budget, and 
the university and indicates a lack of respect for the student body. 
"If we cannot run a program like this, and go along with the Open Speaker Policy which was reaffirmed last week by Fr. Hesburgh on national television, then we are in a sorry state," said McDonough. 
Dowdall, who has been work­ing on the event for the past ten days, said that when the press asked Kunstler about speaking on college compuses he said that he would like to speak at two places: Harvard and Notre Darn e. 
McDonough said that the Program on Non-Violence may co-sponsor the event with the Student Union Academic Com­mission. The steering committee of the Program on Non-Violence will meet this morning and a decision will be made. 

Dowdall said that Kunstler's speech will probably be on the alleged incompetence of the American legal system to handle the kind of trial as that in Chicago. It is Kunstler's belief, explained Dowdall, that the American legal system does not distinguish between a political trial and a criminal trial. The anti-riot law, contends Kunstler, is a political law. But as he thinks it was treated as a criminal law, the evidence he presented during the trial, on the Vietnam War, for example, was ignored. Dowdall said that this had been the theme in Kunstler's other speeches throughout the 
country. 
McDonough said that a nom­ina! admission fee of fifty cents will be charged for the event. 
security, as well as a general statement on what he and his running mate Greg Murray hope to offer the student body with their candidacy. 
"Next year's student govern­ment budget must be designed to eliminate the debt which will be passed on to it by the 
financial ineptitude of past ad­ministrations. It must also, how­ever, insure that ample funds are provided for those campus organizations which provide worthwhile services to large numbers of students (such as The Observer, CAF, etc.). As noted earlier, special attention will be paid to class and hall governments since they provide the most direct means by which a student's activity fee may be channeled back to him. In general, through the responsible handling of funds, student gov­ernment must see that each student receives as close to $16 worth of service from his activi­ties as possible," Thrasher said. 
Thrasher also mentioned several other proposals which he felt should be "closely examined by the next administration." They include the renegotiation of the Convo contract to allow a greater profit for Student Union Activities held there, a coopera­
the campaign about changing 
structures--of rearranging and 
transforming. While a number of 
structural changes must be 
made, especially in giving stu­
dents more say on the governing 
bodies of the University, the 
biggest need for change is in the 
area of leadership. 
"We intend not to perpetuate 
student government as the irrele­
vant elite it now appears to be, 
but rather to have it serve as the 
coherent and articulate voice of 
student needs. It will be dedi­
cated to the best interests of the 
university as a whole, and united 
with competent individuals from 
all segments of the campus." 

"One thing that has really made us feel good is the people we've come into contact with. There are a lot of people who care around here and when these people are behind you it has to make you feel good. I have to thank so many people for all the faith they've had in us. It all makes us very hopeful that we can get to doing some of the things these people have backed us for. Just think of the seniors who won't be around next year and did all that work for us just 
for the personal satisfaction and 
the desire to do something for 
the school." 
tive bookstore, and a competi-..---......~=-~-=c--~~~---. 
tive clothing store. Thrasher also made several concrete proposals for the im­
provement of the security situa­tion around campus. His ideas include "The hiring of a full time investigator, greater hiring of students to patrol the parking lots, better lighting around the stadium and C-2 and C-3, fenc­ing around D-1 and replacing the present night watchmen with the Honeywell Security System." 
"Much has been said during 
Notre Dame 
Gl Cl b 


ee u 
Spring Concert 
Friday, March 13 

7:00 PM Washington Hall 
Admission Free 

~--------~----------~~~~~· 
Going to the Concert? Stop by America afterwards for soft music, soft lights and a quiet place to talk. Open 11 PM to lAM 
REDUCED ADMISSION SAT.: $.75/couple $.50/single 
furmu~whallqu~tp~icy,h~d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V~~~~~-T~-E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
social functions, direct govern­ment funds, and form commit­
0

tees." Re~~~:en~~ ~:Ua~:r~e ..~~;:h:.~ FOR STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT constitution was written to al-


AND VICE-PRESIDENT
low for a broad interpretation by the new officers. It makes certain special provisions for 


MARCH 11th IN YOUR HALLS 
representation in the l~ll Coun­
cil by incoming freshmen as 


DURING LUNCH 
. some will almost certainly be living in Regina next year," she 
sta.t.~~·has been by the AND DINNER HOURS
ratified student assembly, but will be 

presented for approval to the OFF CAMPUS STUDEN.TS 
hall residents," she added. I ­She, Louise McGrath, and VOTE 9 5pm IN THE 0 C OFFICE 
Dianne Derfler, Regina Hall • • ~~~~dent, wrote the constitu-Seniors May Vote 
PAGE 4 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 1970 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

Guy De Sapio 
The election, the Observer, and me 
On Monday night I interviewed Student Body presidential Candidate Tom Thrasher and his running mate Greg Murray over WSND. I asked Tom and Greg many questions about where they stood on the issues. I also 
asked them questions that students phoned in during 'the hour. 
WSND granted the time to Thrasher under contract that was offered to 
all candidates. Under the terms of the contract Thrasher was granted a free 
hour or air time on Monday night if he would agree to appear on a round 
table discussion last night with the other candidates. The contract stated 
that if the candidate appeared on the first show but did not reappear for 
the second he would be charged $50 for the appearance. WSND granted 
the permission for me to moderate the program. 
At the conclusion of the program I made a statement about the qualifications of Tom and Greg for Student Body President and Vice-President. I pointed out that I felt that they were the best qualified men for the offices. At the end of my statement I closed by saying: "This is Guy De Sapio, Editor of The Observer. Thank you and good night." WSND felt offended that I used my official.title because they felt it would lead many people to construe the statements that I had made to be the opinion of The Observer. They also felt it was an offense to their station to nave an Observer statement about the election made on one of their programs. They did not object, however, to me making a personal comment, just to the fact that I used my official title. 
I promised them that I would clarify the situation today. My statement on Monday night was my personnel affirmation of my belief that Tom Thrasher and Greg Murray are the best qualified men for the offices. My conclusions are based on my knowledge of their stances on the issues and my dalings with the two men as campus leaders and as my friends. The statements made were merely mh own opinion. I used the title Editor of The Observer when I signed off simply because I am accustomed to using it. 
The Observer's election opinion was in yesterday's paper. Our ten men editorial board met over the weekend and voted to endorse Tom Thrasher and Greg Murray. 
The question of our endorsement raises another point. As a paper we stand firm behind Thraher-Murray. Our reasons for our support we articulated in our editorial yesterday. 
Various candidates have accused the Observer of failing to cover them adequately or of making their pictures too small or too big. Some have gone as far as to say that we are deliberately slanting our news presentations to get our editorial view across. Positioning or pictures, length of stories andsize of headlines will not always please everyone. The simple fact is that something has to go on top and something on the bottom. There are a number of things that must be considered like the balance of the page, length of the other stories in the paper, etc.. Perhaps these are inherent weaknesses in the media but they are facts that must be faced. 
All year long we have stood firmly for fair news coverage. It has been our policy to relate to the student body all sides of a story. When we have taken a position on the issues we have done it on the editorial page. Our editorial arguments, we feel, should be strong enough to convince you that our position is the best on to follow. To do otherwise is for the paper to do a disservice to itself as well as to the community that it serves. 
For that reason I must say that candidates who claim that The Observer is treating them unfairly are reacting basically on the emotions of the campaign. We have gone out of our way during this election to insure fair 
coverage. If the candidate feels that we should reprint their every word like the statements that appear on a campus flyer, they do not truly understand the purpose of a campus paper. Our reporters must report the facts as they see them. Some candidates do express more significant points than others although all the candidates are not willing to admit that fact. We will continue to serve the campus as best we can. Our news presentation will be straight forward , factual and fair. When we stand for or against a candidate, issue, or event, we will do so wholeheartedly on the editorial page. That has our position this year and we will strive to maintain it. 
Business Mgr.: Bruce Reick  Photography Editor: Mike Murphy  The  opinions expressed in the  
Ad. Mgr.: Bruce Barker  Night Editor: Jim Holsinger  editorials,  news  analyses,  and  
Accountant: John Maher  Layout design: Marty Tieber  columns  of  The  Observer  are  
News Editor: Glen Corso  Layout:  Dan  Shaw,  Mike  solely the opinions of the authors  
Asst. News Editor: Don Ruane  Bridgeman, Sue Reed, Marylyn Stark,  and editors of The Observer, and  
SMC News Editor: Prue Wear  Ann Therese  Darin  do  not  necessarily  reflect  the  
Associate Editors:  Cliff Wintrode  Headlines:  Rich  Smith,  Phil  views  of St.  Mary's College, the  
Ann Gonway, Jeanne Sweeney  '  Schotz, Bob Fulton  University  of Notre  Dame, their  
Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin  Proofreaders:  Brian  Hurley,  Fred  administrations,  faculty,  or  stu­ 
Feature Editor: Dave Stauffer  Vietri  dent bodies.  


More on liberation 
Editor: 
A rhetorical convention which enjoys great popularity these days is one which began, I believe1 with a small essay called "The Student as Nigger." The rhetorical method is to find an "oppressed group," liken them to "niggers" and demand that they be set free (presumably, just like we've set free the "niggers"). The most recent application of the convention is to women and the most outland­ish version of it appeared in Mr. Timothy MacCarry's column for 9 March. 
The reductionism of Mr. MacCarry's column should be clear to anyone who has run up against the narrow-minded Marx­ist thought it derives from. It is only obvious that the problems which women face in this culture are not purely economic 
to  anyone  who  lives  in  a  
community  like  Notre  Dame,  
where  money  is  simply  not  a  

great concern but where those problems persist. I do not think it is going too far to say that they are not even essentially economic. They are grounded, rather, in attitudes towards wo­men which find economic ex­pression just as they find other forms of expression. But all that sounds as simple-minded as Mr. MacCarry's column would with­
.out his rhetoric and it is his rhetoric which is most revolting and offputting. Women's liber­ation is not a struggle in the sense that MacCarry suggests it is, because it is not a battle and it is not an economic and political revolution nor is it an aspect of "social progress." It sounds fatuous to say that MacCarry makes the Women's Liberation Movement into a struggle that is clieched as masculine in the worst way, but . I believe it is so. 
The Women's Liberation Movement (or at least what I know of it) is directed at the realizations that it is very hard 
to be a woman in this culture by any standards; that some of that difficulty, though by no means all of it, comes from inherently unstable notions about men and women; and some of that difficulty would be all6-viated if those notions were gotten rid of. That those notions have their most easily discernible manifest­ations in pay-scales and job opportunities is obvious; any two year old can see that. That they have their' most important manifestations elsewhere should then be obvious, too. And with the recognition of the latter fad it is possible to begin considering seriously what the Women's Liberation Movement is about. 
Sincerely, 
Michael Patrick O'Connor 
concentrating 
Editor: 
Tonight was, to say the least, a very interesting one. Just like last year, the issue of Black Concentration has arisen, and again students are expressing themselves, perhaps a bit more 

convinced  of  their  beliefs  this  
year than last.  
What  happened tonight  was  

that a friend of tnine, Father Bob Loftus, brought out a point -of-view that has so much value it cannot be ignored. This view is that whatever happens where this issue is concerned, it is up to us to make it work. I can assure you that if we searched honestly within ourselves, most of us would admit that sincere efforts to support the system have been rare. And this is true of both races. The incidents that have arisen this year have not been settled by peaceful means, but instead by shows of unity and power. Well this is not the way. Where were the meetings to find the causes of the incidents and where was the ever-needed com­munication to solve them in such a method that animals are not capable of? 
Tonight was a night of reck­oning for me, and these things I have mentioned I now realize were my failings. But I make my plea to you -all of you -and the Administration to support whatever happens. If there is the Concentration, then it will work only if we all try -and that means black and white, young and old. 
Thank you, 
Jess McDonnell 
120 Alumni 
from pout to abscence 

Editor: 
Regarding Mr. Larry Overlan 's overall criticisms of the univer­sity in your March 3 issue: Larry, if it's that bad why don't you stop pouting and leave. Somehow I think we could all survive, in spite of your absence. 
Sincerely, 
Tom Derengo ski 
412 Fisher 



WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 1970 TilE OBSUfJER. 
PAGE 5 

SMC Li beration: off to a slow start 
by Ann Therese Oarin 
"The Present Tense" 
The lights still on 
The coffees warm 
Springs rolled in 
Any day now 
Caught that brass ring 
New semis to sing 
What are years to come 
The time is now. 
-Ellen O'Donnell writer in the Women's Liberation Movement 
For Women's Liberation Movement supporters at SMC, the time was Sunday. Billed as having "the potential for becoming the most explosive liberation movein the country," the group wanted to educate SMC students on their "economic, political, social, educationa!, sexual, and psychological oppression, unmatched by any other groups." Ap­parently someone forgot to bring the matches. Maybe an ND student stole some of the women's TNT. Whatever the case, not more than a spark seemed to be ignited among the 1500 SMC students. 
Foiled in their attempt to "educate" SMC women with distribution of Wo­men's Liberation Movement literature at Sunday's dinner by the administration, the feminine coup d'etat strategists planned discussion groups in each re­sidence hall on Sunday afternoon. Only one discussion group (in Reignbeaux Room, LeMans) materialized with 15 participants from SMC, IUSB, and South Bend. 
Describing itself "like the canary in a gilded cage and the hawk in the tree which rebel at the underlying theme of being told what they are by someone else," the movement, aiming for a re-definition of masculinity and femin­inity and communication among women, advocates equality of the sexes. 
Wearing red/white buttons stamped with the biological symbol for woman and a clenched fist, the group is also campaigning for equality in job oppor­tunities and a greater number of graduate school acceptances. To substantiate their grievances, they singled out inequality in occupations. "If you act like a w-oman; you won't get a job despite all the equal opportunity posters plastered up in offices. How many women are there in management development programs?" 
Although these -t~re some of the immediate goals of the South Bend chapter of Women's Lib, some of the pamphlets they were selling in particular, 
The Place of American Women: Econo­mic Exploitation of Women, enumerates other objectives. These proposals include "free public nurseries and child care centers for working mothers and mothers who attend high school and college; planned parenthood for men and women; legal abortion done in free and well-staffed clinics; summer camps for all children (and for ALL adults?); and reorganization of home industry by application of mass production methods" (a Ia Cheaper By The Dozen?). "Equal economic, social, and intellectual oppor­tunities; fathers and mothers on four-hour days or shortened work weeks so that fathers may regain their lost role and growth experience with children; and payment of wages to mothers for bearing and raising children (minimum wage? unionized mothers?)" complete the list of their goals. 
Appealing to "women who have been enslaved for 5,000 years," they also advocate divorcing the popular asso-

The paper with magic words 
Uy Gene Molinelli The sky was blue-really blue for once; and the air was crisp with a hint of warmth. Mark was standing between Cavanaugh and Zahm just taking it all in. He dosed hi:s eyes and took a deep breath of the spring-smelling air and slowly let it out again. A few squirrels were chasing each other on the grass, and running up and upside down on the trees and stopping short and darting in and out behind the bushes; and they looked so funny he just had to laugh. The sun was bright and it felt good to be alive. Excited, he tore a corner from his notebook; and inspired, he scribbled a few lines of sentimentality. When he 
S-3 H-J, 10,8,7 D-K,I0,9 finished, and read and reread those words, he did not see that they were naive. Instead, they seemed to capture for him the reel of the scene, and it made him happy. Here in his hand was the blue sky; here was the sun; here were the light breezes, the birds, the squirrels, the ants; here was the smell of the re-awakening grass and life-giving earth; here were the sounds, the touch and the taste of the day. 
Suddenly Mark put the paper into his pocket and started for his dorm. He knew he must have looked foolish standing there just looking at everything and writing on a little paper in the middle of 


c --South c-7,6,5,4 
s-8,4 
H-9 
D-J,8,3 
c-9,8 
If you pitch the King of Spades on the second club lead, when West returns a Heart to Dummy's King the situation is as above. If you now lead the Ace and six of Spades from dummy you have trapped East. He cannot afford to Jet the trick slide by to your Eight, so he must win. He cashes the fourth spade, giving the defense three tricks with the Ace of Clubs. As in the original solution he can now lead the Queen of Diamonds which you will let him win. If, instead, he exits with a club, you can lead a little diamond from your hand to put him back in. 
Eventually he will lead a club back to your hand. On your lead of the last club, you will be down to the Jack of Diamonds and the nine of Hearts. Dummy will have the A 7 of Diamonds. On the preceding trick, West had the Queen of Hearts and the K, 10 of diamonds. He is now unable to pitch. If he throws hearts, he makes your nine good. If he throws the small Diamond, he will make both dummy's Diamonds good. 
Notice the key to the correct but futile defense is to have the vision to throw away a card, Jack of Spades, that is a winner to save two winners. The key to the ultimately successful offense is the pitch of the King of Spades for the same reason. 

ciation of woman and home, so that woman can "start to do things." (What "things" are left to the reader's imagin­ation. They didn't confide nor could any 5,000 year-old enslaved women be found to account for their time.) 
Apparently there weren't many "women enslaved for 5,000 years" at SMC Sunday afternoon who wished to be libet"ated, judging from the scarcity of students at the discussion. "Most kids realize it's bad for women who work, but they see no need for change. They have security. In other words, as long as they're-in jail~ nobody's going to hurt them," explained Mary Hacker. In questioning some of the "prisoners" much opposition, not indif­ference, to the movement was detected. 
"Many women don't seem to realize that in order to gain their "freedoms" they ·must give up the privileges that they have had for generations. They cannot have both. I, personally, am not willing to 
give up these privileges," stated Peggy Herron, freshman. "The Women's Libera­tion Movement has the wrong attitude. They are too extreme. They're out to conquer the world, but at the same time they want to be put on a pedestal " -sophomore Chris Luby commented~ Junior Maureen Phillips agreed. "A woman doesn't have to carry a banner to show that she's liberated. She liberates 
_hersel~developing her potentials to the fullest extent she can." "Women in the Women's Liberation Movement are contradicting themselves by using emo­tionalism," senior Kathy Buck added. "They think that they can stomp and kick their feet to get their way. You have to meet a man on his own level 
intellectually." 
For better or worse, for richer or poorer, if woman's lib has come to SMC they've got a long way to go, babyl 
Appeal from Nigeria 
from ...... . 
Josiah D. Uzoma L.L.B. F.C.B.I. 
cfo Poste Restante 
Post Office 
Enugu, Nigeria 27/2/70 
APPEAL FOR HELP 
sir ... 
I am one of the victims of Nigeria war, during fight my house and my properties were completely destroyed. I am appeal­ing to the management of your univer­sity, staffs and students for a help. Though I and my wife are naked, what we need now is food. We are dying. Kindly help us by sending us any amount 
the walk and he hoped no one had .noticed. But if they only knew how he 
felt they would understand. 
He had not gone far when he took the 
wrinkled paper from .his pocket again; as 
if to make sure that the words had not 
lost their magic. He walked, enchanted 
with spring, reading his poem. 
Mark had some friends-a jovial bunch who had become attached to him. They liked him because he was a good guy with Math homework, and writing English­papers-for-nothing. Moreover, he had a fine sense of humor for things like shaving-cream-in-bed, and toilet-paper­on-walls, and books-over-doors, and ph one-calls-in-the-middle-of-the-night. Yes, they had had many a laugh with· Mark. 
When they came upon him they affectionately asked him how he was; and looking up Mark was surprised, and glad, to see them. He would tell them about how spring was coining at last and they could be happy about that together and maybe even celebrate. So with a jumble of words which in his enthusiasm overflowed from his soul, Mark tried to 
explain how he felt. But they didn't seem to quite understand so he handed them the paper with the magic words that told about everything and they were his friends and so it would be nice to have them feel the same way and enjoy the. time together. 
But they could not understand. They could only see the exaggerated emotions, ridiculous excitement, and childish enthusiasm of his words. And when they saw the serious expression on his face, they could not help but laugh; and as he talked on they laughed harder until they were doubled over in their disbelief and unable to speak a word. 
So it was for an eternity, until finally 
they caught their breaths again and left, 
wiping water from their eyes. 
When they had gone Mark held the 
crumpled paper up to the breeze, and 
with water heavy in his own eyes and his 
throat clogged by his heart, he tore it up; 
and let it go. He had been a fool-again. 
for food. We will welcome any amount it does not matter how little. Kindly help us and save us from lingering death. I was principal of Eastern secondary school before the war. Help me and save my family. I look forward to receiving good reply from your university. 
J.D. uzona LLB 
THE ABOVE LETTER IS THE EXACT CONSTRUCTION AS RECEIVED BY SBR. HELP IS NEEDED. 
THE BIAFRAN REVOLUTION my ears beat to the drums of distant pain 
my gentle friends gone slain by a charitable world whose white milk came dried in sacks and obscured the balck man's dream 
Biafra Black American Dream 
to be left alone black breasts to feed our black child 
black smiling child black independent world not allowed to tHow oh groaning palm your white wine has the white whorld's bizarre effects our shadows cast too long on their own red soil 
Biafra Black African Dream 
Tomorrow the sun will rise 
from this crucible of pain. Paul Connett April I969 
St. Xav's to present 
•

absurd theatre 
If you happen to be going to Chicago this weekend, or are looking for a better reason to go than a Mundelein mixer, the St. Xavier College Drama Club will be presenting lonesco's Bald Soprano and Noel Coward's Ways and Means Saturday at 8:30p.m. and Sunday at 3:00p.m. 
The plays will be presented in the College Auditorium, I03rd St. and Central Park Ave., which is about 25 minutes from the Chicago Loop. Cost for students is $1.25 and for adults it's a quarter more. ' 

PAGE 6 
Students suckered: 
phony magazine deal 
Saturday afternoon, students of Flanner and Keenan were visited by a spurious magazine 
solicitor. The man, a tall, young black, convinced the students to purchase subscriptions, by say­ing that they would get the magazines at a great savings. The receipts, however, stated that a charg.! of four dollars was added 
to the twelve dollars the stu­dents had already paid, and that the students would have to {fay this money before the magazines would be sent to them. 
A student from Keenan re­ported that the salesman told him that selling these subscrip­tions would win the salesman a scholarship that could put him through Notre Dame. In other rooms, entirely different stories were told to students. A small group of students have already stopped payment on their 
No Co -ed 
by Dennis Anastasoff Mr. Thomas Fallon, chairman of the Pysical Education Depart­ment at Notre Dame, stated yesterday that he has received no word from the administration concerning the possibility of co-ed freshman physical educa­tion classes next year. Physical education is now a requirement for freshmen at St. Mary's. Fallon said several pos­sibilities have been discussed in converting to a co-ed physical education department. There would have to be a girls' locker room at the Rockne Memorial building. Also, provi­sions would have to be made for women at the convocation cen­ter. He noted that at least one woman instructor would have to be added to the staff. "I don't think any men here could teach modern dance," he said. Fallon stated that the philo-
Knights of Columbus 
Admissions Degree 
Tonight 7:30 
At the Council 
for info call 6729 
________________________-L~b~ask!t~aQga~m~e~·--------------------------------------­
1 
STUDENT UNION ACADEMIC COMMISSION 
presents 

Dr. Hans J. Morganthau 
"America's foremost Political Scientist" speaking on 
"A New Foreign Policy for the United States" 
Tonight 8:00PM Washington Hall 
checks, and have written the company involved. 
Mr. Pears, Director of Campus Security, said that students should keep in mind these thoughts when dealing. with magazine solicitors: 
l) 
"Absolutely no one is allowed to so&<;it magazines on campus without expressed per­mission from the Vice-President of. Student Affairs." 

2) 
Campus security should be notified immediately when soli­citation of any kind takes place on campus. The salesmen will be challenged for their credentials and escorted off campus before they can "fleece" any students. 

3) 
If you have been taken in, stop pay~ent on the check, and file a· complaint with-Campus Security as soon as possible. After these steps not much more can be done to avoid being robbed by these frauds. 


Phys.Ed. 
sophy of the physical education 
department is to teach skills that 
will be useful to the students not 
only during their freshman year, 
but all four years here and for 
the rest of their lives. Fallon 
cites ice-skating as an example. 
He said he was surprised that 
so few boys knew how to skate. 
He attributed this to a large 
number of urban students who 
had never been exposed to it. 
Mr. Fallon added that the 
physical education department 
has had to cope with an increase 
in the number of boys enrolled 
in the department. 
Fallon said that he felt the 
increased number was due to a 
decrease in enrollment in ROTC. 
The Department has plans to 
take better advantage of the 
facilities at the convocation 
center. This year soccer was 
played indoors during inclement 
weather. 
Fallon said that next year arrangements would be worked out to make tennis available to freshmen. Also, he said-badrnin­ton would be added to the 
roster. Nets could be set up where the pull-out bleachers are in the upper arena of the convo. The only difficulty involved here, Fallon noted, might be conflicts with games and activi­ties at the convo center. He sai<f it takes at least an hour and a half to set things up after a 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 1970 
Members of a panel discussion at the Pollution Conference talked yesterday in the Library Auditorium. 
I 

Stein stresses public interest 
by Neil Rossini 

Yesterday, in a panel held in, Memorial Library's auditorium, Mr. M1uray Stein, assistant com­missioner of enforcement for the Federal Water Pollution Board, stressed the importance of con­tinued public interest in the problems of water purification. 
"Is this a fad, or will this go on? Whether the interest remains ·or disappears, the problem will be with us." Stein emphasized that the public must continue applying "the right among the publicity and the right amount of pressure" during the long "gestation period" of clean-up. 
He explained that if a pro­gram takes two years to plan, it will take two more years to build the necessary equipment. Fearing a gradual loss in interest, Stein commented "If we're go­ing to turn the tide, we are going to have to work at it assidious­ly." 
Throughout his fifteen minute opening presentation, Mr. Stein continually accented the im portance of saving the Great Lakes, calling them "the greatest single fresh water resource in the 
free world, and possibly the whole world." He asserted that the lakes are rapidly utrifying, or growing old, and the con­sequence of their pollution are 
great. 

"If the Great Lakes go, you'll not be able to support the population and the industry that we have in the Midwest now ... the United States may not be able to retain position as the pre-eminent world power it is today." He noted that purifying the Great Lakes is the "number one" pollution control priority of the federal government. 
Mr. Stein also enumerated a "Laundry List" of anti-pollution priorities placing the duty of protecting public health and water supply first. The necessity of preserving water for re­creation and "propagation" of aquatic life was the next primary concern. The protection of wa­ter for ag~culture and then industry, completed the list. 
The second speaker on the panel, Mr. Prett of the Great Lakes Regional Office of the Federal Water Pollution Control Agency, spoke of the necessity of finding money to combat pollution. 
Mr. Prett observed that as the public awareness increases, it will become easier for the states to get funds from the federal government. Until recently, lack of public interest had made government officials reluctant to appropriate money for anti-pol­lution control. 
"This took long time to form and will take a couple of years to solve," he concluded. 
Mr. Ralph W. Purdy, execu­tive secretary of t'he Michigan 
TV smoke ads choked 
(UPI) -The Senate yesterday passed a bill that would outlaw cigarette commercials on radio and television, effective Jan. 2, and strengthening the health warning on cigarette packages. 
"Thanks to this bill, Marl­boror country will fade into television history, as of next January," said Frank E. Moss, 
(D. Utah), sponsor of the mea­sure. 
Sen. Warren C. Magnuson, (D. Wash.), hailed the action as "landmark legislation in the health field." He said "great economic forces were aligned against" it, a reference to lob­bying by broadcasters and the tobacco industry. 
The House still must act on the bill, but passage is consid­ered virtually certain since the final version of the bill was worked out last week in a House Senate conference committee. 
The Senate vote was 79 to 9. 
Six months after President Nexon signs the bill, it would require this warning on all cigarette packages: Cigarette smoking may be hazardous to your health. 
Water Resources Commission, commented "The speed at which we make progress is controlled directly by the amount of money in the various progfams." He called for-the public to explicitly express a willingness to pay the cost. 
Mr. Lloyd Tayler, city engin­eer of South Bend, decried the, lack of stat~ funds available to South Bend for pollution con­trol. Mr. Kenneth E. Blessing, vice president of the Wheel­abrator Corp., claimed that in­dustry recognizes its obligation toward pollution and he called for more tax incentives for anti-pollution measures. 
The final speaker, Mr. Ken Horn from the Bendix Corpor­ation, noted that the burden of financing will ultimately be on the public-either as taxpayers or consumers. He also cited a need for more municipal waste dis­posal systems to aid the small manufacturer. 
The panel discUssion was sponsored by the department of civil engineering of Notre Dame and the .Michiana Watershed, Inc. Dr. Philip Singer, assistant professor of civil engineering, acted as moderator. 
The Federal Trade Commis­
. sion (FTC) reported June 30 that the ciga-rette industry's 1968 advertising expenditures including $217.2 million on television, $21.3 million on radio, and $44.6 million in newspapers and magazines. 
Moss said if the industry switches its broadcast advertising money to other media he will 
"urge and support" impositiOn of the FTC's proposal that a mandatory health warning be required in all printed cigarette ads. 
Contributions 
The Martin Club is asking·for donations to bring a minority group student to St. Mary's. Representatives of the club will be in the foyer of Carroll Hall, Madeleva classroom building, all day tomorrow and Friday to accept contributions for the Martin scholarship. 
Marie Henley, acting president of the Martin Club, urges every­one to contribute as much as they can. Cash, checks, and pledges will be welcomed. 
THE O&rERflllt 
Consciousness, mechanization -contradiction? 
What does it mean to be a conscious human being? This ultimate philosophical question is receiving some practical atten­tion from the Institute for the Study of Artificial Intelligence, directed by Dr. Kenneth M. Sayre, associat~ professor of philosophy. 
Sayer and the Rev. David B. Burrell, C.S.C., assistant profes­sor of philosophy, are trying to find a workable definition for consdousness by examining such related questions as "Can a machine be conscious'! If so, what would it be like?" Present­ly, they arc programming the University's Univac computer to perform tasks which require a I i m itcd consciousness for humans, such as recognizing handwritten letters. Their stu­dies are supported by the National Science Foundation. 
The Institute believes its stu­dies can offer two advantages to scholarship--first in creating more flexible programs that increase the usefulness of the computer, and second in using these programs .to gain a clearer, more practical understanding of 
how  human  beings  perform  
various tasks.  
Until  the  advent  of  the  

computer, Sayre explained, philosophers had no laboratory in which to test their theories, while scholars in the sciences have long had the advantage· of trying their ideas out in control­led experiments. Although the computer is limited as a tool for determining the worth of philo­sophical theories, Sayre admits, it does provide some basis for accepting ·or rejecting ideas on how h.uman beings perform basic intellectual tasks. 
In programming the computer to recognize lines of handwritten material, Sayre and his col­leagues found the machine had difficulty recogniZing badly formed letters. Humans have an advantage, Sayre explained, in that they do not rely purely on form, but can reserve judgment on which letter is meant until the context of the word or sentence is clear. 
Sayre and his colleagues pro­grammed the computer to em­ploy this flexible approach in identifying letters by telling the machine which letter combina­tions are statistically likely, and which are not. If confused by a badly formed letter, the com­puter can then consult these lists of likely combinations before making a choice. 
By studying -such human tasks, the Institute hopes to pave the way for more flexible computer programs which allow the machines to function. almost as flexibly as a person in a wide variety of situations. Such flexi-
ND graduate runs for state office, convincedcommunity needs leader 
Daniel J. Klein, a 1969 graduate-of Notre Dame re­vealed plans to run for the dmce of 'Indiana State Representative. Klein, who lives in the firehouse, is presently enrolled in the school oflaw. 
"I would like to announce this afternoon that I am a candidate for the Republican nomination for State Repre­sentative from St. Joseph County." 
"I am seeking this office because I am convinced that this community needs new leaders who will put the betterment of our community and state above petty politics and personal en­richment. We need political parties which will actively encourage citizen participation and rely less upon chieftains who are overly concerned with preserving the status quo," said Klein as he stated his reasons for running. 
Klein believes that the struc­ture of the government has to be reformed "to meet the changes of our industrialized state." The result of this need to restructure is that many "qualified people do not enter government because they cannot effectively confront our society's complex problems," according to Klein. He listed pollution, drug abuse, ' high taxes and crime to be among these problems. 
"It is my hope that through this campaign many people, regardless of political affiliation or philosophy, will for the first time take an active role in our state and l0cal government. I ask 
the  cijizens  of  St.  Joseph  
County  to  aid  me  in  this  
endeavor," Klein said.  


SMC creates student advisor post 
The newly created position of Student Advisor at St. Mary's stems from the former posts of group leader and Student Coun­
selor. This position will be a paid one offered from the Office of the Dean of Students, open to, both juniors and seniors. 
In the past the role of the Student Counselor has been to establish and promote a spirit of community and scholarship in all areas, her main concern being the total adjustment of freshmen to tile college community. An intensive preparatory program and in-service education sessions 
were  the  means  by  which she  
received  training  for- the  posi­ 
tion.  

The initial purpose of the group leader was to be in charge of the orientation activities, and her secondary function was to act as a means whereby the freshmen could work together to supplement their orientation to life at St. Mary's. She took care of informing the freshmen about academic requirements, the workings of student government,. and the various commissions and organizations ·to which member­ship was open. 
In the forthcoming schQol year the duties of the Student Counselor will be expanded to include participation in the ini­tial orientation activities, there­by incorporating the major aspects of both programs into that of the Student Advisers. 
The Student Adviser must 
meet the same requirements. and undergo the same intensive preparatory program of the Student Counselor described earlier. She must also have a satisfactory quality point aver­age. Her responsibilities will include participation in all orien­tation activities with her group, living in the same area of the dorms as her assigned group of freshmen, and being available to help -students with their initial adjustment to college and subse­quent problems they might have in any areas of college life. She will be expected to devote ten 
Peterson calls for maturity 
(Continued from page I) 
have already accomplished quite a bit. However, we question 
their  ability  to  undergo  such  
rapid  positional  changes  in  so  
short  a  time  and  thus  their  

ability to fully carry out these absorbed planks from our plat­form. We still consider ourselves the candidates most capable of implementing these reforms and of achieving unity and we consider our vote indicative of a growing impabence among the student body with immaturity, factionalism and irresponsibility in student government as it now exists.~' 
As a final campaign statement Peterson said, "We sincerely hope that the students who are fed up with student government as it is now will take the time to vote and give the mandate for change which we stand for." 
hours of work a week to the job f St d Ad . h' h ill
0 

u ent vtsor • w tc winclude working with the stu­
· -h h halldents, meetmg Wlt t e 
d. ect d tte d' th · 
tr or, an a n mg e m-
service education sessions. 
The benefits of the program include receiving two hundred 
dollars a semester to be applied r-----------------------------. 
to the student's room and an extensive education in all aspects of counseling. 
All juniors and seniors of next year are urged to consider the financial and personal rewards of becoming involved in this pro­gram and also the service they will be doing for Saint Mary's College as Student Advisors. Anyone interested in applying for the position must submit her name to the Student Personnel Office Friday, March 13. 

FRIENDLY WAITRESSES GOOD FOOD 
bility could be called a form of consciousness, Sayre said, though not on a level with that of a man, or even a cat. 
Sayre does not expect that the future will produce machines capable of a consciousness as complete as man's --a machine which is aware of its actions, 
NSF to fund programs 
Notre Dame has received funds from the National Science Foundation to support six undergraduate research programs this summer -more programs than granted any other universi­ty in the country. 

The research programs offer top undergraduates a chance to pursue individual research under established scientists. The 'six projects received a total of $36,080 to prepare students for more advanced work in physics, biology, geology, aerospace and mechanical engineering, metal­
-lurgical engineering, and civil engineering. 
Undergraduates enrolled in the sophisticated scientific apprenticeships receive stipends of $60 per week, while Notre Dame receives allowances for operational costs. The NSF ex­plained that "Practical exper­ience in research helps students learn the patience, persistence and dedication, as well as the 
independence and creativity. ex­pected of working scientists." T'.1e departmental programs include: 
--Geology, the oldest of the six programs, first received funds for the undergraduate research project in 1959. The depart~nt expects about three students to 
participate this summer, pur­suipg field. work iti the western states or Apalachians, and laboratory work at Notre Dame. 
Dr. William M. Fairley, associate professor of geology, will direct the 1 2-week program. 
Metallurgical engineering and materials science will spon­sor its eighth research program this summer, directed by Dr. 
Ettore A. Peretti, professor of metallurgical engineering and materials science. The program will support three under­
graduates over a 1 0-week period. 
Biology will conduct its fourth project, a 1 0-week session 

for six students directed by Dr. 
Ralph E. Thorsen, professor of 
biology. 
-Civil engineering, which has 

conducted undergraduate re­
search projects since 1962, will 
sponsor a I 2-week program for 
students interested in the area of 
Portland cement technology• 01 
environmental health. Dr. 
Kenneth R. Lauer, professor of 
civil engineering, will direct the 
program. 
-Physics will enroll five to 

eight undergraduates in its sum­
mer program, now in its fourth 
summer. Dr. John W. Mihelich, 
professor of physics, will direct 
the program. 
-Aerospace and mechanical engineering, the youngest of the summer programs, will sponsor of 12-week program for eight students, under the direction of Dr. K wang-Tzu-Yang, chairman of the department. 
My l.al charges 

(continued from page 3) 
with assault, maiming and mur­der of one enemy suspect and murder of a second during interrogation after the My Lai sweep. The two victims are the same Medina is charged with killing. 
S. Sgt. Kenneth L. Hodges, 24, of Dublin, Ga., charged with rape and assault to commit 
murder. Pvt. Max D. Hutson, 24, of Attica, Ind., charged with rape, murder and assault with intent to commit murder. Sgt. Esequiel Torres, 21, of Brownsville, Tex., charged with
murder and assault with intent 
to commit murder at My Lai,
where two months later he was wounded and received a Purple Heart. There is a separate count 
of murder "about February or March, 1968" against Torres. 
feels affection and pain, and exercises will or volition. "The reason such a machine will probably never exist," Sayre added, "is not from any impos­sibility from a technical point of view. There simply is no practi­cal reason to commit the resour­ces it would take to create one." 
ND and SMC Students 
Are invited to a gabfest with 
Professor Messbarger, Chairman, English Dept. Sunday at 8:00 PM Call Bobbl 4236 
This weekend, the best in American music 
-From Boston, one of the best traditional singers in the nation 
MR. BOB WHITE 
-The kings ofBlue Grass music 
THE BLUEGRASS GENTLEMEN 
(They're finger pic kin' good) -Introducing a great new group 
SOFTLY SPOKEN 
FJanner Basement Friday: First Act 9:00PM Admission $1.00 Saturday: First Act After Concert $.75 acouple
$.50 er erson 


WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11,1970
The Irish Eye -Hockey Review 
ND title plans ahead of four -year program 
by Don Kennedy game road trip unearthed any home. Finishing on a strong squad. zone, seemed too intent on Observer Sports Writer Irish hopes of early arrival as a note, Notre Dame swept seven Two-year veterans John following Bobby Orr's style of 
of the eight meetings, with a Roselli (selected as the other
major hockey power, as the icers play. Many a time Green's
"We anticipate a 50% im­dropped four of seven away poorly played tie with Bowling co-captain ) , Kevin Horne, and offensive rush, left the Irish
provement in the calibre of play contests. Wisconsin, behind the Green the only blotch on an Joe Bonk asserted their positions vulnerable to breakaway attacks
o\:er last year with the squad attack of all-American candidate otherwise perfect end to varsity as solid candidates for next by the opposition. Green willwe've assembled for this season's hockey's second season at du year's wing assignments,
Bert DeRate, reeled off two have to be content with less
campaign." Have the preseason Lac. Bonk's waned
although play
straight decisions at Madison. scoring and more hitting if the
thouehts of Irish mentor Charles In singling out individual stars toward the close of the season.
Then the Eagles of Boston Irish expect to go anywhere next
"Lefty" Smith been realised? in the'69-'70 Irish effort, or in
College, behind the backing of a All accumulated impressive sta­year.
Apparently so, at least in some any team performancce for that
frenzied McHugh Forum crowd, tistics, with Roselli and Hoene Despite lapses in the defense, 
areas vital to the establishment matter, one may tend to over­
reduced the Irish status to zero, garnering 26 and 39 points the Irish were always able to fall
of a national collegiate hockey look contributing factors that
outclassing them in every depart­respectively and Bonk adding his back on the steady play of soph
power within the four-year time others may have thought essen­
ment in their 74 conquest. 23.
limit set by Coach Smith on his tial in a successful season. But netminder Dick Tomasoni, who
(There are no hockey fans quite Along with Noble, the rest of
arrival on the Notre Dame sports no one can add or detract from is emerging in the collegiate
like Bostonians. They hurl more the freshman skaters turned in
the play of freshman center ranks as one of the top goal­
scene. be derisive epithets at the opposi-seasons quite commendable for a 
or John Noble, who emerged from tender prospects in the future.
Improvement can't tion than New Yorkers first year of play on a collegiate
the\ confines of Toronto to not Tomasoni kept the Irish close oneffectually evaluated by mere Chicagoans ever dreamed pose 
level. Center Paul Regan, high in record comparisons. This year's sible. Suffice it to say the only lead the Irish in scoring the battle for scoring honors all many an occasion and looms as 
with a season record perfor­one of the key factor in the Irish 
finish of 21-8-l' as opposed to atmosphere is quite oppressive season finished with 4 7 pointslast season's 16-8-3_ slate, hardly to the opposition.) mance of 59 points (on 24 goals drive toward an NCAA cham­
on 27 goals and 20 assists. repr~sents a true picture ,of ~he Having hit their low point and 35 assists), but to become Defenseman Bill Green not only pionship by 1972. His final stats pr~f1t~ reaped fr?m the 69-70 even before the season was one an inspiring factor in uniting the filled the gap left by the read 3.5 goals allowed, 89%. objective. The urnt that eked out · third finished Notre Dame saw team toward a cohesive style of departure of Dean Daigler, but Next year should be an a 16-win season did so thanks to little outlook' for improvement. play. It always seemed that it added 35 points of his own. interesting one as far as the a schedule_ that was, so set up But, after dropping a 7-3 home was Noble who led an Irish Wingers Bruce Raskob and Gary future of hockey at Notre Dame th~t the_ lnsh couldn_ t help but decision to the BC unit, they comeback with a key assist, or a "Smokey" Little also aided the goes. Having been recently ad.­firnsh wtth _a strong fmal record. righted themselves took the Noble goal that brought the icers Irish cause immeasurably. Little mitted to the Western Collegiate 
Understanding that the fr~nt Nichols Tourney in two games at from the brink of defeat. In one also has the "distinction" of Hockey Association as the offic~ was concerned ~th Buffalo and won eight of their game against Colorado College, leading the nation's collegiate league's tenth member, the Irish creatmg_ new appeal to a raptdly next nine confrontations, John registered three third ranks in penalty minutes. As will have their work cut out for developmg sport, one can see the . d. t f period markers to bring the Irish
1 Gary put it, "I built up a large them when next year's schedule
. . . f me u mg a wo game sweep o . .
ments of bolstenng the 1mage o oh· St t t th c from a one-goal deficit to a 
· f · . h 10 a e a e onvo. lead early in the season (with a comes up, tacing such tor­
the m ant varsity sport w1t a Th 1 · h b d" two-goal margin of victory. It is few timely misconducts) and no
padded schedule. e n~ re oun mg success midable foes as Michigan Tech,
understandable, then, why his 
Th. h N t were partially due to two rea-one was gonna catch me." One Denver, Michigan State, and
0

18 year, owever, re sons: a reshuffling of lines that teammates elected him recipient wonders where the certainty lay. Wisconsin. As always, recruiting Dame rescheduled teams that th "V t L · " f K · of the year's Most Valuable 
Defense was quite a nemesis

administered seven of the eight saw e e eran me o evm will be the key to Irish success.
Player Award, an acknowledge­
Irish losses and added Boston ·Hoene_, 1oe Bonk, and John for Lefty last year, and this Coach Smith feels that "if the
ment of his contribution to team
Roselh broken up over three season there were more of the six players who express interest
College and Colorado College-th . th til" . h success.
0 1 same problems: insufficient in Notre Dame come here, we'll
-powers in the East and West ~r·. mes, b~s . ~ IZtfngJ the Captain Phil Wittliff again led10 backchecking, failure to clear be in good shape." Let's hoperespectively. And the Irish cNenbelnngp calpaRt I ties 0 d Phil~ the team in goal production with the zone, and the like. Mark.t 11 . o e, au egan an 29 h f l ' 
proved to fare qw e we agamst W"ttrff h t t , two s y o ast years mark that some of them are defense­
1 1 1 Longar turned in a few excellent 
this new test of team capabil-. ' w os~ ear Y enure a of 31. Although at times it men. As one unnamed memberperformances, but his spottyT . f f '68' wmg proved quite dsastrous,and a seemed Phil took more than his
0

11es, reve~I~g our . s sudden spurt of excellence in play leaves a big question mark of the Irish sextet said in adverse declSlons and coupling d f . th t h d b share of the shots, a glance at his commenting on the chances for
1 in plans for next season's defen­
them with convincing defeats of e _ens!ve Pay . a a ee~ record of assists (19) will dis­sive corps. Freshman Bill Green, an NCAA crown by 1972, "ifother solid hockey clubs, in quilte h~rrendous m the season s prove any theories of Wittliff's we're not strong by then, then . h ear y gomg. b · h although capable of throwing his 
reachi. ng. and surpassmg t e With the new alignments fully emg a one man s ow on the forget it, well never be."
weight around in the defensive 

20-wm pmnacle. established, the Irish headed ice. Apparently his teammates .It was~ season of streaks. The West and split a pair of games were also impressed by his Insh semorless squad ran off each with the Ai F A _ attitude on and off the ice. For 
. . h . . r orce ca th d . Ph"l h 
three d. ectstve orne vtcton~s demy and -Color5~do College, e secon year m a row 1 as 
ove_r W~ndsor College a_nd Ohio leaving the Irish at _ with been selected as one of two
14 8 

Umvers1ty. But an ensmng seven eight games to play-seven at ·co-captains for next year's 
f!,~.!~~t;on~H!~w? • 70P"h9o,~~~YPenSt!t~•me. 
John Noble, Fr-C, Toronto, Ont. 59 24 35 11 22 30 Phil Wittliff, Jr-C, Pt. Huron, Mich. 48 29 19 8 19 30 Paul Regan, Fr-C, Scarborough, Ont. 47 27 20 36 72 29 Kevin Hoene, So-W, Duluth, Minn. 39 20 19 10 20 ' 30 
Bill Green, Fr-D, Roseville, Minn. 35 14 21 20 40 30 Jim Cordes, So-W, Farmington, Minn. 27 15 12 6 20 29 John Roselli, Jr-W, Duluth, Minn. 26 14 12 20 48 30 Gary Little, Fr-W, Trail, B.C. 27 10 17 28 83 30 Joe Bonk, So-W, S. St. Paul, Minn. 23 5 18 4 8 26 Jim Morin, So-D, St. Paul, Minn. 14 2 12 25 74 28 Bruce Raskoh, Fr-W, Saskatoon, Sask. 15 7 8 9 20 25 Mark Longar, So-D, Eveleth, Minn. 15 2 13 9 18 30 Paul O'Neil, Jr-D, So. Boston, Mass. 10 1 9 9 18 30 Mark Steinborn, Fr-D, Pt. Huron, Mich. 11 6 5 11 22 30 Ricky Cunha, Fr-W, Scituate, Mass. 7 2 5 3 6 23 Mike Collins, Jr-D, Oak Park, Ill. 4 1 3 3 6 20 Adam Stelmaszyncki, Fr-W, Ngra Fls, Ont. 2 1 1 0 0 5 Drew Black, Fr-D, Guelph, Ont. 1 1 0 2 4 2 Bob Ward, Fr-D, Chicago, Ill. 1 1 0 0 0 6 Mike Bonk, Fr-D, S. St. Paul, Minn. 1 0 1 0 0 IS Jim Hayes, Fr-C, Detroit, Mich. 1 0 1 0 0 8 Dick Tomasoni, So-G, Chisholm, Minn. 1 2 Team Bench 2 4 Others 15 4 11 6 12 18 
Notre Dame 428 186 242 223 528 30 
Opponents 238 108 130 196 459 30 
Goal Tenders Games Prds Saves Gls Agst Pet. Avg. so Dick Tomasoni, So, Chisholm, Minn. 19.3 61 587 71 .892 3.5 1 Chris Cathcart, Fr, Guelph, Ont. 10.6 32 265 39 .877 3.5 0 John Noble lead the 1969-70 Irish in scoring and was named the Most Valuable Player as a freshman. 
Notre Dame 30 94 852 108 .889 3.6 I 
Opponents 30 94 1179 186 .864 6.2 0 
Short Handed Goals: ND 6, Opps. 3 
Scoring by Periods 1 2 3 OT Total 
Notre Dame 48 65 73 0 186 
Opponents 29 38 40 1 107 




