New constitution to abolisl. senate 

Petitions for referendum to circulate 
By Ed Ellis 
and twenty days from the date problem as the ability of the some discussion as to the valid­
Student Body Vice-President of receipt. December 9 is exactly issue to attract the necessary ity of the constitution the Mark Winings announced last twenty days from this Thursday, 60% of the vote. Winings noted administration was using, "They night that the Krashna Adminis­the day the petitions are to be the small turnout in the Prince­have apparently hit on the right tration would circulate petitions presented to the Senate, ton Plan referendum October 2, one. I can find no constitutional this week mandating the Student assuming the Senate finishes its and said that Student Govern­discepancies in their methods." Senate to call for a consti­budget work by then. If the ment Cabinet officers would Thrasher will oppose the new tutional referendum of the budget hearings are not com­campaign vigorously in order to constitution in the referendum, entire student body on Decem­pleted by this Thursday, the boost the turnout. He said that as he has in the past. ber 9 to consider the proposed plebiscite requests will be he expects approval of the new According to the constitution, new student government consti­presented at the next meeting of plan by a substantial margin. an alternate method of revision tution that would abolish the the Senate, probably sometime Ranking Stay Senator Tom is to have the Senate adopt the Student Senate. next week. Thrasher, who opposed Krashna new charter itself, by a two­
Winings said that the current According to the present and the abolish-the-senate move­thirds vote without a referend­constitution requires 750 signa­constitution, the referendum ment in the SBP election last um. Winings said that the 
tures on constitutional referen­will succed if 60% of the under­year, agreed that the major prob­Krashna Administration did not d urn petitions. Once the graduate Student Body votes, lem Krashna and Winings would choose this path because the petitions are received by the and 50% of those voting in the have would be to overcome the new Senate is split "pretty much 
Senate, the election date must election approve the new apathy on campus. Thrasher said evenly" concerning its own be set sometime between ten charter. Winings sees the only that although there had been abolition. 

Rectors and Presidents: Clearer roles desired 
By Bah Higgins views were aired but no conclu­
a speech from Badin's hall Presi­sions were reached.
dent Buz Imhoff."He stressed theThe Hall Presidents and rec­
The topic of drug usage and
importance of hall life, notingtors met last night in two loca­

the rolls of the president and
that 80% of the undergraduatetions for the newly created 

rector in this matter was
students live in dormitories. 

workshops designed to study the 
discussed near the close of the relationship between the two The meeting progressed into a 
meeting. Again, no conclusions 

respective offices and the pro­study of the structure of Hall 
were reached, but Fr. Leon blems of hall life in general. Government, including a section 
Mertensotto, rector of Lyonsleader concept, and the wide­

The south quad forum, held Hall, stressed that the duty of ~pread problem of apathy. Many
in Walsh hall, was introduced by the rector and the president is to provide seminars where interest­ed students may obtain informa­tion and discuss the matter of
Drug abuse outlined 
Buz Imhoff
drugs. Imhoff, commenting on the same subject felt that, "It is 
Phillips, felt that the rector up the monotony of study.
not the role of the president to

By Joe Moskowsitz such drugs as her<>in, metha­should be a dominating figure Apathy was touched on in this
impose his values about drugs,
drine, LSD, and various :Imphet­and his presence should be felt. discussion also. 
rather he should seek to provide

A forum style discussion on amine compounds. However, the general consensus Although there were no 
a forum where knowlege about

the topic of drug abuse was Dr. Cyriac K. Pullapilly of St. was that the rector should be definite plans for the South
the subject can be obtained."

presented last night in Grace Marys History Department withdrawn from the general flow Quad, the North planned
One fact brought out was that

Hall by the ND-SMC Academic spoke on "Drugs and Religious of activity in the hall. another workshop for the first
the use of marijuana caused an

Commission. Four speakers led Experience" in Oriental cultures. An idea similar to the Student Tuesday in December. The
unpleasant odor in the halls.

the discussion. Dr. Pullpapilly siad that older Union's "Over the Hill" was format will consist of the view­
In the North Quad meeting

Dr. Sara Charles of the Uni­people in the East used drugs for presented, It was suggested that ing of CBS' First Tuesday Pro­
he! d at Flanner, discussion 

versity's Pyschological Services instant religion, but he could the Halls should attempt to set gram, which will feature Notre
centered around the roll of the

spoke on "Recent Medical Find­recall no incident when drugs up some type of social function Dame followed by a further
rector in the hall. Fr. John 

ings in the Drug World." She had been used for mystical ex­in midweek,, to help in breaking discussion on Hall Life. 
Schuneman, rector of Breen­

said that recent research at the perience. 
U.S.C. Medical Center showed In most cases the Hindu's and that out of 14 drug users, all but Buddhists looked down <5n the five suffered from symptoms of use of drugs, said Pullapilly. 

Towers to elect new SLC reps

necuotisingencitis, a disease of Some of the lower Lamas used the blood. Dr. Charles said this drugs, and under Brahmest rule disease is generally oot found in the Hindus also used them. t\ Gre!!_>lud~lorodsky has the potential to draw Commenting on -some recent young people. The persons who Both drug users and mystics together the students in a con­issues which ~came before the
Nearly four weeks after Glen

exhibited symptoms of the di­say they know everything about certed effort to voice their Council, Kezele pointed first to
Corso's resignation from the Stu­

sease, however, had been using life and that theirs is the know­opinions in a manner which will the Judicial Code. He claimed
dent Life Council that body will 
ledge of the true reality; Pullapil­produce the most beneficial that the entire problem was not
again have its maximum eighth
ly went on to say. effect. approached properly and that
student member. On Thursday, 
The difference between mys­As an example Kezele pointed the delay in its passage could
November 19, the residents of tics and drug users is that drug to the issue of co-education. He have been prevented.
Grace and Flanner Halls will users come down 'rapidly and vote to choose the individual to postulated that through surveys On the issue of Sophomore lose hold of their reality while represent them on the SLC. the SLC could determine stu­cars, presently before the SLC, the mystics stay up because of a The deadline for nominations dent opinion on both campuses Kezele felt that the plan could true religious experience. and the necessary petitions was concerning the issue. He pointed not be initiated this year. Again The next speaker was Dr. out that the Council has the here he cites a case of unneces­
Sunday evening, and at that 
John J. Kane. Dr. Kane suggest­added advantage of having facul­sary delay.
point only two candidates had ed that students learn new roles ty representation, which could
shown the intent to seek office. Candidate Mike Sherrod's 
be instrumental in voicing the
and unlearn old ones in relation They are Floyd Kezele, a sopho­main aim if elected is to attempt to the new environment. He also difficulties the f acuity sees in to the SLC back a
more in the College of Arts and bring as 
said that in the process of be­Letters, and Freshman Mike co-ed classes. representative body. The Grace coming independent it may be-Sherrod. The sophomore candidate hall resident said that it has been Kezele expressed the view feels this course of action on this his experience that most of the
come necessary to become rebel­lious. Through drugs students that his main motive for seeking and other similar proposals st~den ts he has talked with are 
would give the administration an not even familiar with the func­
can learn a new identity, and the vacant position was his feel­impetus to act on issues of es­
gain new experiences, but of ing that in many ways the tions of the Council. 
sence to the students. In this Sherrod went on to say that
course, he said, some students administrations of both the stu­dent government and the Univer­way he visualizes the SLC as a he feels that the SLC gives the
use drugs to "droupout." 
sity have not responded to the body which could function as a impression of a lot of talk and (Continued on page 2) basic needs of the students. He conscience for the administra­an insufficient amount of action tion.
went on to state that the SLC following it. 


Page 2 THJ!. OBSERVER. Tuesday, November 17, 1970 
~~------------------------------------------­
Driven N"ded 
Drive-aways available to any city in U.S. Phone 234-0021 
also appearing: 
Melting Pot 
presented by student union social commission & ace 



WE GO 

TYPING :4 ny material, any length, charts and diagrams. $.50/page. Will pick up and deliver. Call Connie Paden 289-0177 after 4 p.m. 
(Continued from page 1) 
One problem, Dr. Kane stated is that many youths can't under­stand why their parent's usc of. 
alchohol  is  socially  approved  
while  their,  use  of  drugs  is  a  
social taboo.  

WANTHD: 
Typing to do in my home. Reasonable rates ­272-5637 
a momen your time to state our campaign goals for directing the Freshman Classes' potential toward achieving reasonable ends: 
1. 
To further cooperation with St. Mary's Freshman class-there are ewer two thousand freshmen in the two classes, and it's time we started some joint social activities. 

2. 
To inform the class about the things happening in student govt. today that will influence us next year (sophomore cars and Student Life Council) 

3. 
To tell Freshmen about the workings of student government -there are so many committees and counsels here, that its nearly Impossible to know where to go if you have a problem or an idea. Stop by 142 Dillon or call 1616 from 7:0Q-10:30 PM Tuesday night if you'd like a 


further explanation. 
James Fossett -President 
A new concept In ring design ... diamonds perfectly cut and set to make the most of their brilliance. Modern as tomorrow, so why not come in 

today? By-GOLD 
Pri~f~~~~~ ~iamond 
orlCompan 

THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS SUITE 602 ST. JOSEPH BANK BUILDING SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46601 
Phone 287-11127 



TO O'HARE 
EVERY 
GO WITH US AND PUT $13.00 BACK 
IN YOUR POCKET. THAT'S THE DIF­
FERENCE  BETWEEN  OUR  FARE  - 
$8.00  - AND  AIR-FARE  ABOUT  
$21.00.  

DAY Non-stop. No baggage worries. No reservations necessary. No weather hang-ups. Two hours travel time. 
CALL YOUR TRAVEL AGENT OR 

INDIANA MOTOR BUS • 287•0200 
Opinions on drugs aired 
Dr. Kane felt that we live in a "drug culture" because of the high use of alchohol and pre­scription drugs. 
Referring to the process of matur:Jtion among todays youth Pullapilly said, "m;,turation brings anxiety, and in society you're supposed to take pills when you are anxious." 
The final speaker was Dr. George N. Schuster, the assistant to the President of Notre Dame. He spoke about a study con­ducted in a one block area of New York that is two-thirds Puerto Rican and one-third black. From the study he con­cluded that 1) there were l 00 addicts in 65 families, and that coccaine was the worst abuser 2) in clinics, everyday in New York, many addicts die from drugs 3) out of this block very few women were addicted 

4) there was no correlation between J.Q., personality, and the usc of drugs 5) over one-third have given up drug use, only two used the methadone treatment (synthetic narcotic used to rid heroin users of the physical need) 6) coccaine and hashish may be more dangerous than heroin, and finally 7) 42% of the families on the block feel they will never get off welfare. 
Dr Schuster feels that if mari­juana were legalized, taxed, and' licensed, the novelty would surely wear off and that the Justice Department should em­phasize their effort on the con­trol of har,d drugs. 
Weekend thefts reported 
By Pat Gooley Several thefts occurred over the weekend, and complaints about certain student activities were sent to the campus security force. Compared with recent weeks, though, there were fewer serious matters to report. During the football game Saturday, someone stole about $500 worth of clothing and merchandise from a car in one of the parking lots. No more 
WELCOME FRESHI~IEiil! AND OLD TIII.1ERS! 
N.D. Barbershop 1/rs. 
8:00 a.m. to 4:45 Sat. 8: a.m. to 11:45 Open 5!12 days a week 
Serving N.D. men over 100 years ~11 types of Hairc14ts Need a Haircut for Vacation! 

information is available at the 
moment. 
Two wallets were stolen over the weekend, one from Walsh and one from the Rockne Memorial Building. The wallet stolen from the Rock was turned in to Security on Saturday minus $15. 
Officials at the Rock have complained that some students have been lending ID cards to non-students who wish to use the facilities there. This is against university rules. There have also been complaints about student use of parking lots on football weekends. Students are not supposed to use the D-2 lot on football weekends, and 35 cars were ticketed Saturday. 
On Friday night, several students blocked Notre Dame· A venue. When a girl stopped her car, several boys entered her car and forced her to drive them a distance. They poured water on 


ROGERS OPTICAl. 
Complete Spectacle Service Glasses Duplicated Your Doctor's RX Filled 
L•raest selection of •••Ires" 
214 S. Michigan (next to State Theatre) 289 7809 




)Oocaccc~eeocco~~oecc~oocee•aaaaaaaaaaeeccccccc' 

CASH FOR CHRISTMAS 
Lo•ns up to $150 
Loans taken out now not due until January 20 
Morrissey Lo•n Fund 
Open 11:15-12:15 daily In Basement of LaFortune 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage 
aid Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 


Tuescta.v, Novembe~~r_:1!_7.~19~7~o~________________..cm~~rs~Q~B~~~"ER~~IIM~~~-------------------------Pa-'ge=--3­
•



Ruggers w1n finale 
by J .W. Findling 
recovered it and after being a try by Chuck LeggieroObserver Sportswriter 
following a nice run by Pete 
Sports Shorts
tackled flipped it to ChrisThe Notre Dame Rugby Club Swalling who outran the· Lyons France; the "B" team closedfinished their finest fall season in 

with a 5-2 season mark.
to the end zone. Phil Kalandrast:veral years with a convincing 

As it had been all season, the
added the conversion as well as a8-3 victory over tht: Chicago penalty kick later in the half to Irish victory was an unselfish We were number 1. After Saturday's squeaker with theLyons Rugby Club on Saturday. 

effort by each member of the
give Notre Dame an 8-0 halftime Yellowjackets the Fighting Irish have slipped back into the number 2Their triumphant finale over a 
fifteen-man team. With justice
lead. position, behind the Texas Longhorns who belte~ Texas Christianhighly-regarded Chicago team 
the ruggers were not only
The only scoring in the 58-0 last weekend.
brought the Irish ruggers fall 
record to 6-1 and secured for second half was a penalty kick pleased with their fine It's not important, though, where a club is rated on November 17. 
performance on Saturday, but
by Chicago team What counts is where a team is rated at the conclusion of the regularNotre Dame a high ranking in the as both 
also with their entire season. The
team's defenses tightened. The season, or, better yet, where they are rated after the bowl games.
the Midwest Rugby Union. 
Irish ruggers beat six very good
Irish "B" team also completed If the Irish can top LSU, USC, and a tough bowl opponent, thenAll the Irish scoring came in 
opponents (including Beg Ten
their season with a thrilling 3-0 another championship trophy should join those already sitting in thethe first half. Charley Blum 
champion, Indiana, the
launched a kick victory trophy case in the ACC.
over a good Lyons "B"high into 

previously undefeated Indy
team. The game's only score was Bowl controversy rages hotter than ever now that Nebraska hasChicago territory. Tom Herlihy 
a beaten

Reds, and once John a spot in the Orange Bowl. Will the Irish accept a Cotton
accepted
Carroll team); they lost only to 
Bowl bid, gambling that Texas can top the Arakansas Razorbacks on 
the top-ranked Palmer Rugby 
Dec. 5, or will they go to the Orange Bowl and play the 'Huskers,
Club of Davenport, Iowa. Of

Texas up, NO down 
who ani almost certain to wind up the regular season with a 10-0-1 
course, the ruggers would like 
record. Only an early season tie· with USC mars Nebraska's otherwise 
another shot at Palmer, but they
"We're No. 1" 6:28 from the final gun to lift perfect slate. 
Both Notre Dame and Texas the Irish to a 10-7 victory. must wait until the spring season Winning the last two games of the season will become an even claimed that distinction last With its blitzkrieg win Texas for a rematch. harder task for the Irish since Larry DiNardo is unable to play the week but after Saturday's major is almost sure to be voted the The rugby club will resume remainder of the season. Coach Parseghian announced Monday that college action only one can now nation's No. 1 team in this practice following semester DiNardo reinjured his knee against Tech and that surgery will be make the boast. week's United Press break, and the Irish ruggers have required to correct the problem. LSU is currently leading the nation 
It took Texas only three plays International Board of Coaches their hearts set on a spring trip in rushing defense and the loss of DiNardo is certainly not going to 
to score against TCU as Jim ratings. to Ireland. (Where else?) Three help the Irish ground attack. Bertelsen the 20 year old junior Third ranked Ohio State years ago the rugby club made Recording win number 8 was easily the season's most difficult from Hudson Wis. ran 54 yards unable to snap its lethargy in the journey to the land of the task to date for the Fighting Irish. Georgia Tech came up with an for the first of his three recent games puffed past Purdue leprechaun, and this year's outstanding defensive effort in holding the nation's number 1 touchdowns to spark the 10-7 when Fred Schram kicked a seniors are trying to get the offense to I 0 points but the Irish defense came through with their Longhorns to a 58-0 romp. The 30 yard field goal through icy funds for a similar trip. This best effort of the year and the Irish were able to pull the game out in win extended the Texas rain and snow with 2:04 left. writer wants to thank all the the final quarter.
streak-the nation's longest--to ruggers for their cooperation and Coach Yonto, Coach Kelly, Coach Shoults and their defensive 
28. Fourth ranked Nebraska 9-0-1 patience this fall. I also wish players rate a "job well done" for their great showing Saturday.
Notre Dame struggled with a made a bold bid for even higher 
them luck on their trip to The Irish dominated Tech everywhere but on the scoreboard. determined Georgia Tech rating and won and Orange Bowl Ireland. Imagine Charley Blum J.Jotrc: Dame picked up 448 yards in total offense to Tech's 141 and 
defense before Denny Allen bid in the process when it in Ireland. Consider the racked up 22 first downs while the Yellowjackets accounted for onlyscored on a two yard plunge crushed Kansas State 51-13. 
possibilities. 6. The Irish couldn't seem to move the ball once they got inside the twenty, however, and that prevented them from putting more points on the board. 
The Irish offense also had a couple of tough breaks before they finally notched the game-winning touchdown. Early in the third 

Huskers take Orange
MIAMI (UPI)-The Orange voted Sunday night to accept an thought to have other plans for quarter Theismann ran the ball to the Tech three yard line but a clip
Bowl Committee will send invitation to play in the Orange New Year's Day. 
was called on Denny Allan and the ball was brought back. I watched
scouts out to watch five big Bowl. Their 9-0-1 record this It appears likely Notre Dame this play closely in films of the game Sunday and Monday and havecollege teams Saturday looking year is marred only by a 21-21 would prefer a Cotton Bowl to say that the official just plain blew the call. Allan clearly threw afor an opponent to face tie with Southern California in game if it could take a shot at clean block.
Nebraska in the 37th annual their second game of the season. Texas. The Longhorns and the Theismann also just missed connecting on scoring tosses to Allan,
Orange Bowl Game New Year's The Cornhuskers would like Irish were tied for first place in who he overthrew in the third quarter, and to Gulyas who seemed to
night. to take on Notre Dame in the last week's UPI major college have, then dropped, a pass in the end zone in the third quarter.
The fourth ranked just much
Orange Bowl as as ratings. The drive to the winning touchdown was a clutch performance by
Cornhuskers who face Oklahoma bowl promoters would like to Orange Bowl scouts 
Theismann and company. Gulyas contributed a great catch and fine next weekend unanimously stage the match but the Irish are concentrating on South Bend, run and Denny Allan carried the ball five straight times before Ind. also will get a look next 
running it over the goal line. DiNardo and Jim Humbert threw the Saturday at the team thought to 
blocks that paved the way for Allan's scoring jaunt. .
Booters end poorly 
be their second choice Louisiana Largely unnoticed in the excitement of the close contest SaturdayState's Tigers. was the fact that Tom Gatewood hauled in 5 of Theismann's aerials 
Washington University of St. mainder of the third quarter and And aside from Notre Dame, to ~reak Jack Snow's single season record of 60 receptions, set in 
Louis, Missouri handed the most of the fourth quarter but, LSU still has an engagement 1964. The Swinging Gate now has 63 catches to his credit. He's 
Notre Dame soccer club a tough with less than two minutes left with another potential Nebraska second in the nation. 2-1 overtime loss Sunday to play, Washington U. scored opponent, Mississippi. Other 
* * * * * 
afternoon in St. Louis in the and forced the game into over­teams under consideration are The Notre Dame hockey team will swing into action this comingseason's finale for the Fighting time. 
reported to include Tennessee weekend, traveling to Houghton, Mich., to oppose a powerfulIrish. Notre Dame finished the The defenses dominated the and Air Force. 
Michigan Tech sextet. Coach Lefty Smith has everyone back from 
year with a 5-5-2 record. ten-minute overtime period also The Cornhuskers were eligible last year's 21-8-1 team and has added some talented freshmen to The two clubs battled through and it looked like the period for the Orange Bowl invitation the squad but a beefed-up schedule, which includes 20 games against a scoreless first half of play would end without a score but because they have only one members of the WCHA, America's toughest hockey conference, willwhich saw strong defensive play Washington U. struck again in game remaining. 
force Smith's predominately young team to scramble for a .500 
on both sides. the final minute of play to notch record this winter. The loss of sophomore John Noble, the club's Tom Shriver broke the dead-their second ,goal and gain the leading scorer last year, for the two games this weekend at Tech doeslock in the third quarter, putting victory. Dillon, Keenan not brighten Smith's outlook. Noble has a leg injury.
the Irish ahead 1-0 by booting in Leading the Irish defense Sun­
* * * * * 
a short shot, from just in front day were halfbacks Dan Tierney, reach finals The races for first place in the pro football circuit are narrowing.
of the goal, after taking a pass Jeff Noonan, and Jack Gold­The Giants, trailing by 19 points, 33-14, in the fourth quarter
Dillon will face Keena"
from Dan Tierney. kamp and fullbacks Bruce Sunday at Yankee Stadium, rallied for three touchdowns in the
Sunday for the interhall football
The Notre Dame defense Graves, Jim Patton, and Carl 

championship in the Stadium. fourth quarter to top the Redskins 35-33. The Giants have won sixmanaged to protect that one Smith. 
Keenan won the North Quad in a row since dropping their first three and should battle the Cardsgoal advantage through the re-
title yesterday by defeating and the Cowboys to the wire in the NFC Eastern Division race. Breen-Phillips 6-0, and Dillon The Jets upset of the Rams Sunday dropped the LA squad two
************.*********************** 
took South Quad honors by full games behind the 49ers with just five games left to piay. John
* * 
winning a decision over Brodie should lead San Francisco to the NFC West title.
i DiNardo out for season: 
Morrissey. The Vikings handed the Lions a 24-20 setback Sunday and all Cold and snow kept the. scores but wrapped up the NFC Central Division championship. Minnesota
* 
Larry DiNardo, the All-American left guard for Notre * down in both games, and leads Detroit and Green Bay by three games.

* 
Dame, has had his career come to an abrupt end. The 6'1" 235 : 


Dillon's victory was awarded In the AFC West, Oakland, Kansas City and San Diego are all in: lb. senior from Queens, New York entered St. Joseph Hospital * 
after neither team could score in the running for the top spot. Oakland is currently in first but the* yesterday afternoon to undergo surgery on the knee that he * regulation time plus an overtime Chiefs are only half a game back and the Chargers trail by but one* re-injured in the game against Georgia Tech last Saturday. * full game.
period. The game was decided
~ The injury was described as strained ligaments and every : by number of first downs, Dillon The Colts are running away with the AFC East crown but no one *one concerned felt that it was best for Larry to be operated on * to Morrissey's five. seems to want to win the AFC Central Division title. Cleveland and
* immediately. This decision was made Sunday evening. * having nine Keenan's score came with Pittsburgh are tied for first with 4-5 records and the Cincinnati
* DiNardo is expected to remain in the hospital from six to * 
only four minutes remaining in Bengals are third, just one game back with a 3-6 mark.
~ seven days. An operation of this sort requires six weeks to heal : ....-properly. )f­
the fourth quarter. Tom Ewing hit Ray Donovan with a pass
: It is apparent, then, that the most valuable offensive * Return lnterhall equipment 
that went for 30 yards and a TD.
* 
lineman will be out for the remainder of the regular season and * The Interhall office has Equipment can be returned at 

B-P threatened to tie it up in the

* 
also for any post-season games. : announced that all players still Gate 11 of the football stadium games closing minutes but

* 
Jim Humbert and Dennis DePremio are the likely candidates * possessing uniforms must return Monday thru Thursday from fumbled and Keenan ran out the


: to replace the Irish co-captain at his left guard position. * them by Nov. 24 or face a five 3:30 to 4:15 and 6:30 to 8:00. clock. 
dollar late fee.
*¥·······························~* 


1\JEW LOW FARES 
SOUTH BEND --CHICAGO 
For 
Fast, convenient Chicago at 

Now -New low fares that save up to 30 percent 
Old Fare One Way $4.31 
Round Trip $8.70 10-rlde $35.65 25-rlde $79.25 
30-day 
For information-Convenient bus service 

St. Mary's and our modern new station at 2702 West Washington Avenue. Free Parking 24 hour cab service 
SOUTH SHORE LINE 
THB OBSERWR Tuesday, November 17, 1970 


Two new committees started at S M C 
By Kathy Schwille Two new committees have been established at SMC, one to revise the Inter-Cultural program and a second to redefine the goals of the college. The Inter-Cultural committee, which should complete its job by December I, concerns foreign and black students on campus. Their main job, according to Sister Alma, is "to study care­fully the proposal of last year under which the program worked and to make the necessary revisions" to streng­then the effectiveness of the program. Sister Alma described the goal of the Aims and Purposes 
Tonight -CAC's Cinema '71 presents Jean Cocteau 's "Beauty and the Beast" 
7:00 & 9:00 Eng. Auditorium 
Admission $1.00, Cinema '71 patrons free 

F reshmen-Sorge (Pres.) & Gorrell (V.P.) 
Due to campaign rules which 
prohibit the publication of our 
platform, we are forced to try and 
reach the voter through the 
ObsefVer. The lack of space 
prevents us from covering our 
proposals fully. 

The SORGE, GORRELL 
campaign is aimed at the voter 
who is discontent with the 
restraints put on Sophomores, 
who wants coeducation, and who 
doesn't believe that locking the 
campus up like a prison is the 
answer to our security problems. 
It is for the student who wants to 
hear from his administration after 
it is elected. It is for the student 
who is tired of just complaining 
and wants some action. 

As Freshmen, we have the most 
at stake in the changes taking 
place at Notre Dame. Why should 
Juniors or Seniors worry about 
Sophomore car rights? If we don't 
take care of ourselves, no one 
will! It's our bed, we have to 
make it; together! 

Tomorrow, the ObsefVer will 
publish the SORGE, GORRELL 
"8-point platform" for real 
Vacation...Shopping...Theater...Concerts 
Sightseeing...Museums...Recreation 
service to and from South side and downtown frequent daytime and evening hours 22 weekday trains daily 14 trains Saturday and Sunday 
Per Cent 

New Fare Savinas $3.10 29% $8.10 30% $29.45 17% $69.75 12% 
limit from date of sale 
Call Ticket Agent at 233-3111 (except Sunday) between Notre Dame, 
committee as "to get something from day to clay and say we're down in black and white which teaching chemistry pretty well. is not just in generaL It is alright There's got to be something to say we are training young definite if we are going to ask women for good Christian living, people for money, for example, that's a wonderful aim, but you to keep the place going." want to get something which is a The Aims and Purposes 
little bit more specific. I think committee has not yet started its our aims and purposes in the 
bulletin, for example, have been outdated now for about five 

Earthlight shines in Stepan 
years. Seniors in high school are quite sophisticated now in Tuesday night at eight o'clock choosing their colleges. A girl in Stepan Center the and her counselor will go to a Contemporary Arts Festival college bulletin and see just what invites you to share in a new the aims and purposes of a experience. It's called Earthlight college are." Theater, a group of eleven actors 
Sister Alma feels at this time and actresses who comprise what particularly it is important to be may just be the most exciting specific about the aims of Saint and innovative thing since Mary's College. "If we don't "Hair". have a purpose," she said, "why Earthlight's "thing" is a are we existing? We just can't go collection of short pieces, a form 
i1r=;=:=:=;=:=;=;=:=:==================s=t==u==a==e=="==t:========o=="==re>n=====:::::====================~t= 
.lll: Ticket Office ill! 
Tlx sold for events on c•mpus 
•nd In South Bend 
Open-Monday thru Friday -11:30-12:30 Pl\.1 4:00-5:00 PM 
Cultural Arts Commission's Contempor•ry Arts Festival Presents 
EARTHLIGHT THEATRE 
A CONBINATION OF HAIR, SECOND CITY AND S.F. MIME TROUPE 
THE ONLY THEATRE GROUP ALLOWED TO PERFORM AT WOODSTOCK . THEIR LAST COLLEGE TOUR BEFORE OPENING IN NEW YORK 
TueL Nov.17 Ste an Center 

CAF P•trons Free 1:00PM Admission S1. 
'A SMAll MIRACLE. EXPLOSIVH'( FUNNY. UTTERL'{ WINNING.' 

RES VED Tickets on sale on campus 
At Student Union 
Prices: Matinee $4.50, 

Ticket Office 4-6 PM $3.50, $2.50. Eves. $5.50 
3rd Floor LaFortune $4.50, $3.50 
work due to the possibility of a change in specific aims should the college move towards co­education. Membership has not been determined, but Sister Alma expressed the hope that two clays at the end of Christmas vacation will see intensive work on the committee. 
similar to that used by the Committee and Second City. Some of them originate from a written script while others are improvised from a basic structure. A synthesis of varied theatrical techniques, the group places a premium on inventiveness in a series of sketches ranging in length from 30 seconds to 10 minutes. Past performances have been "Alice Tripping in Wonderland", "S.E.X.", and "El Camino Real" while their present is entitled "E Pluribus Unum". 
Earthlight was the only theater group allowed to perform at the now famous Woodstock FestivaL This will probably be their last college appearance before opening in New York. Come see them while the best seats are still 1 ess than five dollars a shot. It will be well worth it. 








