
Experimental college being planned 
an isolated unit,'' said Sisterby John Powers living. The Hall is divided into cil, but no plans have been ap­demic Councils of Notre Dame Suzanne Kelly. 
two wings, with space available proved at the present time. and St. Mary's for approval. Ulti­
An. experimental college Selection for the experimental 
for classes, dining and kitchen Meetings begun last March are mate approval for the experi­
which would include such inno­college would be from sopho­
facilities. There is also some pro­subsequent to research which mental college, set to begin in
vations as a coeducational dor­!11-0res in t~e school year
perty around the building. Holy has been going on since I 968-69 September 1 971, will rest with
mitory and residential classes is 1970-71, at Notre Dame and St, 
Cross Hall was formerly a semi­by the Curriculum Revision the Boards of Trustees of both
now being planned by faculty Mary's. This Experimental
nary. Committee. colleges when they have a joint
members and students on a. The planned experimental col­The Working Committee on meeting in January 1971.
working committee under the 
lege is under a working com­the experimental college in­The purpose of the experi­
Curriculum Revision Committee 
mittee chaired by Sister Suzanne cludes four subcommittees with mental college will be to create a
of the Academic Council. 

Kelly of the General Program. thirteen faculty and two stu­college in which "structures have 
Notre Dame's Holy Cross Hall dents. When a proposal has been to be devised" that will "lead tois the probable location of the The possibility of an experi­
mental college was sanctioned formulated, it will be presented new ideas" in education, said
experimental college because· it 
last year by the Academic Coun-to a joint meeting of the Aca-Father Charles Sheedy, C.S.C.,
is adaptable to coed dormitory one of the committee members. "A different format would be evolved."
Haley discusses future book 
Independent work by sttl' dents would be encouraged. Par­by Tom Degnan year, is the culmination of the written about him." 
ticipating students would take Alex Haley, noted Black au-Black author's effort to trace his The article entitled "Mr. nine hours of courses in the ex­thor of "Autobiography of family's lineage from a back­Mohammed Speaks" came out a perimental college and the re­
Sophomore Year Program hopes Malcolm X", addressed a near woods plantation in Tennessee month later. maining six hours with other stu­to begin with about 150 stu...
capacity audience in the Library to the African country of In the years following the dents. A course in "the study of dents, the present capacity of
auditorium last night on his soon' Gambia. Reader's Digest article author man and nature" would be to be published book, "Before "It will be a piece of work Haley interviewed Malcolm :X taught in a lecture-seminar for­Holy Cross Hall. One change this Anger." Calling his book that is not just a euphimistic cry for the Saturday Evening Post mat, with "units" in which in­would be that residents would "the quest of my life," the but a testament to the fact that and Playboy. Finally, when a dividual teachers would give lec­be responsible for the daily up­noted traveller and lecturer des-'Black is Beautiful,'" said Haley publisher asked the Muslim tures and other faculty members 
keep of the hall. There would be cribed graphically and at the conclusion of the lecture. give seminars. no daily maid service. 
leader to do an autobiography. 
The Working Committee issometimes emotionally the diffi-The noted Black' author Some faculty would live with
Malcolm X enlisted the help of 
culties he encountered is assem-focused on his beginnings as a Haley. The book took one year the students. By having the stu­planning on the presentation of bling the .information for the writer during the first part of the dents take six hours of courses proposal sometime in Novem­
to research and one year to or­a 
book. two-and-a half hour lecture. "It ber. At that time there will be a
ganize. Malcolm X was killed outside the college, they would ''The whole thing started out all began when I started writing still be in contact with other stu­joint meeting of the Academic 
two weeks after the book was 
as a whim while 1 was working letters during World War n;' the finished. dents. "We don't want to form Councils of Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's.

with Malcolm x on his auto-67-year-old Haley told the au­biography," Haley told the dience. "And after I got out of audience. "I stopped in the the Navy I decided to try and 
Post Placement Bureau schedule
national archives one afternoon write professionally. I wrote out of curiosity to see if I could constantly seven days a week for by Kevin McGill for individual interviews a week tion Center in the near future. find out anything on my eight years before I got anything Beginning Friday, October 23, before the interview is Besides literature, counseling 
scheduled. will be available in many careerfamily's history and that's how I published." The Observer will print a weekly The Placement Bureau is fields."
got the idea for the book. I've "I did my first big article on list from the Placement Bureau planning a number of new pro­Mr. Willemin and Fr. Jamesspent $35,000 alone on air fare the Nation of Islam (Black Mus-of all scheduled employers who grams this year. "Because there Shilts, rector of Farley Hall, areand visited over fifty-two librar-ilim) for Readers Digest", said will be interviewing graduating is no place on campus except the working on an Insurance nighties in three countries in my Haley. "I had to interview Mal-seniors and graduate students for library to find out about various for that hall. All members of thesearch for information." colm X who was at the time very prospective jobs. All students careers,'' said the Director of hall will be able to attend an in­The book, which will be pub-suspicious and truculent because must be registered with the Bu-Placement, Richard D. Willimin, formal talk and question-answerlished by Doubleday Co., next of the many adverse things being r~.~u,. room 222 of the Main 
Bu!ldmg, and they must sign up "we will begin a Career Informa-session dealing with the insur­ance profession. Mr. ·wiliemin is very optimi­


Bizot proposes campus conversion 
tic about this program and wants that "at least part" of the field­of La Fortune be "turned into to expand the program to other
the rennovation of LaFortune
by T. C. Treanor house be retained and an expanded Huddle," with halls and other career areas. He
student center, the conversion of 
orders served by waitresses. explained that many men here
the Psychology Building to an 
Professor Kenneth to conduct formal interviewsnight urged the "utilization-up annex of student union or its 
along Featherstone scored plans to have to rtmain in South Bendto the maximum-of area 
conversion to "joint use by all 
revitalize the fieldhouse. for the night and would be will­(the) road between Notre Dame 
student publications and the 
and St. Mary's college" last night According to Featherstone, the ing to volunteer their time to
American Studies Program," and 
as the for fieldhouse was a "temporary, lead such a session.
Committee Social 
says that "if an entirely new 
unsatisfactory housing for the Starting this year, The Place­Understanding met informally 
cultural arts center is not built, 
University Arts Committet;." ment Bureau will establish afor the second time. 
the fieldhouse should be 
Summer Jobs Program to findBizot, who joined with Uni­renovated inside and out; if a opportunities for summer em­versity Arts Council representa­new cultural arts center is built ployment and apprenticeship.
tive Dan O'Donnell in urging elsewhere, the west end of th~ All Notre Dame students will be 
fildhouse (at least) ought to be 
eligible to apply for these jobs,preserved." 
and the program will cover all
Bizot in a separate proposal 
areas of· the country. Mr.
by Dave McCarthy Fr. Riehle explained that each suggested the conversion of the Willimin said that there might be violation is handled individually. top floors of LaFortune into a a good many jobs overseas asWhen asked to confirm or For example, a student who "hostel" for visiting students. 
well.

deny a rumor that the University ends a "bad trip" in the hospital Endorsing the proposal, UAC would not "bust" for marijuana :after smoking marijuana cigar­rep a Donnell complained that possession, Fr. James Riehle, ette i~ not necessarily going to the Morris Inn was "financially 
Hawlr faflr 
Dean of Students, was evasive. be severely punished (e.g. ex­unreachable and too conven­
David Hawk, 24-year-old draft 
"Normally it would. The rule pelled). "We may try to work it tional" for most students: Father resister and co-founder of the(no. 6, pg. 26 of the 1970-71 o).lt with a gur if he's using the ·Charles Sheedy termed Bizot's 1969 Moratorium Day, willStudent Manual) is still there," stuff," Riehle said. However if proposal "ludicrous.'' SBP David Krashna speak on "The Politics of the
he said. somebody turns out to be "the Student Body President Dave Fr. Riehle insisted that he had campus' he Krashna suggested that La and "rotten," Featherstone said Anti-War Movement" at 8 p.m.
biggest pusher on "this committee shouldn't clean Thursday (Oct. 22) in the Uni­
to be discreet in discussing the can expect severe discipline. Fortune be "turned into some­
up the n.istakes of the Universi­versity of Notre Dame'sadministration's policy on the thing nice,'' contending that ty." Engineering Auditorium. 
subject because of the stringency Fr. Riehle remarked, "A lot there was a "bad psychology" Featherstone also scored what Hawk, a former member ofof federal laws demanding pro­effecting student use of La
of people downtown think he called the Trustee's "con­the Student Non-Violent Co­secution for possession, distribu­everyone on campus smokes Fortune, but O'Donnell conten­tinued abscence." "If they (the ordinating Committee (SNCC),tion, and use of marijuana. ded that any "bad psychology"
marijuana every night." How­Trustees) are willing to accept is now attending the Theological The presence of "pot" and oc­concerning La Fortune may hav~<
ever, he added, "There hasn't the position of Trusteeship,'' he Seminary in New York City. Hiscasional users at Notre Dame are been inherant in the Student
been a case_this year. In fact,' if's 
well known facts. "We're more Body, rather than La Fortune. said, "they should be ready to talk is sponsored by the Student 
quieter this year than before. It's come around here more often." Union Academic Commissionconcerned about pushers, " Fr.­
not a big problem around here as Father Ernest Bartell sug­and the National Student Asso­Riehle said. on other University campuses." gested that the entire first floor (Continued on page 3) ciation. 

Page 2 
Thursday, October 22, 1970 
Sadie Haw"lns Dance Psych Service Center aids stu ents 
S•turd•y, Oct. 24 8 PM· 1 AM 

with THE SYMBOL 
CLASS OF '72 PRESENTS A 

MIXER 
AT LAFORTUNE STUDEN'CCENTER BALLROOM FRIDAY EVENING OCT. 23, 8:00 -12:00 
FEATURING 
..110" COLLECE WOMEN FROM OUT OF TOWN 
AND MUSIC BY 
CROWN S1.SO 
town ... the girls swooned over his great looks and his suaveness. He had more marriage proposals than any matinee movie idol ... and often went 
boating with his favorite "heartthrob" Mabel Normand. The artist, J. C. Leyendecker, created this fictional hero and his admired features. 
What are the bright, way-out, up· tight words they're using? Just send us your deathless (deadly?) 
prose -and we'll send you this 22" x 28", full-color poster of the Arrow Collar Man. Simply write a caption, fill in your name and address, post it (that's Arrow's way of saying mail it in) and the full-size poster will 
be sent to you by return mail. They might have said: "Are you sure this is the way to Woodstock?!?" ... or, "I thought the Titanic was unsink­ablelll" What do you think? If you have a real mercenary streak, 
send in several entries -the odds are 
better to win a two-bedroom ski chalet or beach house. 
A panel of judges (hired at great cost in Washington) will select the best entry . , , and if you win, you'll feel like leaping tall buildings in a single bound. If you're the BIG winner, you'll be notified by mail. No experience necessary! Everyone wins! Apply now! 
1. 
On an official entry blank, (or paper) write your name and address and fill in a caption. 

2. 
Mail your completed entry to "The Man," P.O. Box 1, Blair, Nebraska 68008. 

3. 
Entries must be postmarked by mid­night November 30, 1970 and received by December 10, 1970. 

4. 
Best caption wins a twa-bedroom ski chalet or beach house which will be selected by The Arrow Company, and will be erected at a site within conti­nental United States chosen by the winner. The Arrow Company will pro­vide up to $5,000 to pay site and installation costs. 

5. 
Entries will be judged by the D. l. Blair Corporation, an independent judging organization on the basis of 


(a) humor (b) originality (c) interest. 
6. Contest open only to college stu· dents. Decision of the judges is final. Duplicate prizes will be awarded in the event of a tie. No substitutions for any prize offer. Contest is subject to all Federal, State and local reg­ulations. Winner will be notified by mail. BE SURE TO PRINT YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS CLEARLY AS EVERY ENTRY RECEIVES A COLLAR MAN POSTER. Send entries to: 

THE MAN-P.O. Box 1, Blair, Nebraska 68008 
Nam~----------------------------------­
Address.___________________________ City___________State____~______Lip___ 
by Bob Myers 

Occupying the third t1oor of the Infirmary, behind Keenan -Stanford halls, is the student Psychological Services Center. It is open Monday through Friday from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
The center had been in oper­ation since this years graduating 
Observer insight 

class arrived as freshman, but there is considerable lack of un­derstanding regarding its func­tions at the University. 
In a community the size of Notre Dame, with its special characteristics of intense com­petition, strong parental and so­cietal pressures, and the lack of a social atmosphere to balance these pr0ssures, the tendency for psychological problems to de­velop is obvious. What is not ob-
Lowenstein 
Lance Corey, of Students 

for Lowenstein informed · the Observer that the organizing of student volunteers to help Congressman Allard K. Lowen­
stein (D-NY) campaign for his reelection to the Fifth Congres­sional District of New York, is entering it's last week of in­formal meetings. Tables will be open at the dining halls this week to distribute literature and recruit workers. There will be a meeting tonight at 7:00 in the second floor ball room of LaFor­tune .Center to discuss housing and transportation arrange­ments. All interested students who wish to campaign for last year's Senior Fellow should come to the meeting or call: Ed Davey -6889; Dennis Duggan ­8205. 
Come see how the vampires do 
Metrocolor 

PLUS -GEORGE KENNEDY : IN "ZIG ZAG" 
"ious  is  when  these  problems  
show  a  need  for  professional  
help.  

The most common problem encountered involves that of a failme of one student's relations with his fellow students. A per­son who is unable to socialize and communicate with others undergoes serious integration difficulties. The feelings and e­motions arising from this social vacuum can he very intense, and critical to one's mental state. The great American feeling of loneliness is shared by all_, but it is only when one is no longer a­ble to handle the anxieties which accompany it, that serious prob­lems can arise. 
The reaction to loneliness of­ten appears in the form of de­pression or lack of confidence and these emotions can intensify to a point where a person be­comes incapable of functioning normally. Persons might then at­tempt escape by various means: one which often results in ser­ious problems is the escape into drugs. Other means of escape, such as burying yourself in your books, drinking, or the lack of initiative and thus inability to concentrate and accomplish any­thing, can alL result in serious problems for the student. 
The main object of the 
Psychological Services Center is to help persons function nor­mally again. When someone first stops at the center, a member of the staff will conduct an inte­rview. The staff consists of three psychologists, Drs. Ralph Dunn, Charles Arens , and James Brogle, and one psychiatrist, Dr. Sara Charles. In the interview it will be determined whether or not the person is in need of as­sistance. Both individual and group therapy are offered at the center and a person can state 
the Sea -Gull by 



Anton Chekhov 
Washington Hall ·-Oct. 22, 23, 24 at 8:30 PM 
Tickets $1.50 information 284-4176 


Attention 

which treatment he prefers. Treatment can extend anywhere from one session to a long term involvement on the part of the individual. 
It is important to realize that the center is available, not just for people with serious psycho­logical problems, but also for those with minor han11:-11 n• (hnm 
do I get along with my room-mate, what's wrong with me, etc.). Sometimes it is merely necessary that Ia person stop for an hour, and discuss some of the problems he is facing. 
One of the difficulties en­countered by the Center is that the people who are mostin need of its services are often those who won't seek its assistance. This necessitates that a friend or room-mate, aware that another is facing problems he doesn't seem able to handle, either sug­gest the friend stop at the cen­ter, or call or visit himself and discuss the person's difficulties with one of the staff. 
The psychological services center, and the people who run it, are here for one reason: to be of assistance to the Notre Dame 
and St. Mary's community. The staff consists of intelligent, sensi­tive, and concerned human beings trying their best to assist others in seeing life a little more clearly, a little more understand­ably; while coming to terms with its meaning themselves. 

Prof. elected 

Dr. Don Mittleman, professor of computing science at the University of Notre Dame, has been elected to his second term as chairman of the Inter­university Communications Council (EDUCOM) at their national convention in Atlanta, Ga. 
Mittleman will serve as chair­man until EDUCOM's next annual meeting in October, 1971. His duties include repre­senting the Council of over 100 major universities, and serving on the Board of Trustees and its executive and finance com­mittee. 
EDUCOM is an international association of colleges and uni­versities working together to apply modern technology of in­formation processing to both the scholarly and administrative areas of educational institutions. This technology includes tele­vision, computers, satellites, and communications linkages. 
It :'i Bill's Pick-up Ser­.for used furniture, and junk and selling -2646. 

interested in nn!<itinr•":•:~::. following 
University Forum Student Affairs Subcom­of the Board of Trustees 
-Student Life Committee of~§~;j::~:::~:;:~~~~=~:;::::!::!::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::§~: Faculty Senate -Graduate Council _ Academic Council Assistant Dean of u of 1 _ Traffic Review Board School is scheduling intArvi""'"':·:· for prospective students on place name in ..........................,;.; day, Oct. 23, in Room 205 resume by 9: ness Bldg -Sign-ups for appoi in any of the 
outside Room 101 places: P. 0. Box Healy Room 134, 406 Ad Bldg. ( 10-4) Grad Students' Mail History Dept, c/o Bill F come to the meeting at noon Friday in Lilbr1trv::::~:::;ot1se1rver 
Thursday, Octobt.r 22, 1970 

THB O.&rEIWEil. Page 3 




Hartke, Roudebush clash 
INDIANAPOLIS (UPI) -The cafllJs of Sen. Vance Hartke (D-Ind.) and Rep. Richard L. Roudebush (R-Ind.), clashed yesterday over the "refusal" or "inability" of Republicans to set another date for a cancelled second statewide debate be­tween the two candidates. 
First Democratic State Chair­man Gordon St. Angelo, repre­senting Hartke in planning the statewide television and radio debates, accused the Republi­cans of reneging on an agree­ment to hold two debates, "I hesitate to call Mr. Roudebush a WNDU could be expanded state­wide. "I informed the IBA today that Congressman Roudebush was willing to expand the South Bend program to one hour and let it be broadcast statewide," Durnil said. 
But Harry Kevorkian, news director of WNDU, said that after conversations with St. Angelo, Durnil, and Eldon Campbell, general manager of Indianapolis WFBM-TV and IBA spokesman in negotiations on the Hartke-Roudebush statewide debates, no agreement was reached on a statewide expan­
· 


Crime concerns Newman 
by Ann Therese Darin 
Donald Newman, Republican hopeful for the seat of Demo­.cratic incumbent John Brademas 
(2nd CD), addressed St. Mary's political science classes yester­day. 
In his prepared remarks, New­man advocated a return to law and order. He claimed that crime usurps foreign and economic is­sues as the number one concern of the American people. 
Propagating crimes, he said, is the free speech policy of many 
on debate 
was  that  this expansion is  not  
likely.  
Have Debated Once  
Hartke  and  Roudebush  ap­ 

peared on a statewide televised debate Oct: 12, originating from 
WFBM. A panel of three re­porters questioned the two can­didates, who also questioned each other. Ever since, the two 
political parties and a sizeable 
portion of the viewing public
have debated the merits and demerits of this first debate. Durnil said "It should be clearly stated that CongressmanRoudebush was the 'winner' of 
of the colleges and universities in 
the nation. 
"A known revolutionary who 

advocated a destruction of our 
form of government should be 
prevented from speaking," he 
stated. To support his assertion, 
Newman cited the two members 
of the Chicago Seven who spoke 
at Kent State University a few 
days before that campus's dis­. ruptions last spring. 
"We wouldn.t bring in the 

Mafia to Notre Dame's Business 
School to lecture on business en­
terprises. We wouldn't bring in 
Billie Sol Estes to talk about in­
vestments. Why would we bring 
in the SDS?" he questioned. 
Besides differing with his op­

ponent Brademas on free speech, 
Newman also disagrees with the 
incumbent on fiscal and foreign 
policy. 
United States and other coun­tries endorsed Israel's exis­tence;' he disclosed. "So, we are morally bound to give them economic aid, and military hard­ware. Because of the sophistica­tion of the military hardware it is evident that we would have to send military advisers, but never combat troops. •• 
Commenting on the Vietnam war, Newman said, "It is sacrili­gious to be involved in a war halfway around the world, with business as usual at home. 
Newman, a forty-year South Bend resident, owns and manages a pharmacy in suburban Mishawaka. A graduate of Pur­due University, the congressional contender lists membership on a government medical committee as his previous political experi­ence. 
-~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;:;:::::;::::;;;;::1:::
As an example of fiscal waste, ;:• Newman cited a program ini­
tiated by Brademas to educate 
twelve people. Total cost for the program was several hundred thousand dollars, he alleged. 
Unlike Brademas, Newman 

believes that the voters of this 
congressional district are con­cerned about the Middle Eastern 
situation. "We have a moral responsi­
bility to support Israel. By 
sion.
liar but I don't hesitate to say he the first debate and Hartke was ::::f::::~~~~~~~=E~::~n~~g[:~l~a;n~di81:i&~:~~:;:~~;:\~:::iti~h~~e~::j:; j):~I
Kevorkian explained that so

failed to keep an agreement," St. the 'loser.' The Senator is behind 
far as he knows, the Oct. 27 pro­
Angelo said. He went on from in this Senate race and he well 
gram is as originally planned; a
that point with some heated re­knows it. I can only assume this 
local half hour program starting
marks that demonstrated elec­is why Hartke is now begging for 
$30 SCHIC!( CORD­
at 8:30 p.m. with Hartke and
tion day is only 13 days away. another opportunity to debate." 
If you care
LESS ELECTRIC
Roudebush answering questions
In reply, Gordon K. Durnil, St. Angelo said the GOP re­
RETRACTABLE

telephoned in by viewers. 


enough, maybe
Roudebush's campaign coordina­fusal to go ahead with the 
St. Angelo said that the 

RAZORS FOR ONLY Republican plan for expanding
tor, said St. Angelo and the In­second planned debate was "the 

ou can meet
diana Broadcasters Association first direct admission the Repub­
$19.95!! 
the South Bend program to an
knew that once the second de­licans made they lost the first THE CHEERLEADERS AREhour on a statewide network in­

ePaulist

bate on Oct. 20 was cancelled debate." He said also that the ;STILL TRYING TO GET TO cluded the provision that the
because of President Nixon's Republicans "can't sell Mr. 
. SOUTHERN CAL! CALLtwo candidates "not play in the 
.challenge ...
visit to the state, that Roude­Roudebush; they have to sell a 6842same ball park." He said that the
bush could not reschedule it stand in?' 
It isn't easy, being a Paulist.

GOP wanted one candidate tobetween Oct. 21 and Nov. 3. 
Bridging gaps between young answer questions for one-half 

A PHONOGRAPH 
and old, black and white,

GOP Would Expand Show 
hour, then the other answer 
IS NO BETTER THAN 
past and future. But it is aDurnil said that an already questions for a half hour. "He is 


m PICKUP CARTRIDGE 
challenge.

scheduled telephone call-in show 
True high fidelity sound re~creation begins at the
afraid to stand side-by-side with 
source ofsound. Just as a camera is no better than its 
on South Bend television station The Paulist mission is toSenator Hartke," St. Angelo 
lens, a phonograph system is no better than its car­tridge. 1l1is breathtakingly precise miniaturized elec­
people ... individuallycharged against Roudebush. 

tric generator (that's what it really is) must carry the 
and in all the societies in

full burden of translating the stereo record groove
St. Angelo offered-also to ex­


Campus bulfdfnts 
into usable electrical impulses -and should do this 
which they live pand an Oct. 28 joint appear­

without adding or subtracting from what is on the recording. Knowing this, Shure quality standards are 
... to discover Christ ance of Hartke and Roudebush 

rigidly maintained at the highest levels. 
(continued from page 1) 
wherever he is acting Father Bartell, however, con­
on a weekly public affairs pro­
... to be attuned to the neeQs tended that, "to the Trustees, 
gram over Bloomington WTIU to 
~.-'.,~­
....,. 
of the present, yet to forma statewide debate, but indica­

: ·~ .. ~. 
we have asked of them a great 
a vision of tomorrow's world. favor· even by asking them to 
tions from the Republican camp 
v·15 
If you are interested in

lez=1,.1,1,ma• TYPE 11 (IMPROVED)
hear these petitions." 
PHONO CARTRIOGE 
finding out more about the 

The overwhelming choice ofcritics
COME, once a month or
In an interview with the Paulist priestly challenge, 
$67.50
Observer after the meeting, SBP 
more often Participate in 
RMS Audio also features the Shure M9l E cartridge­
write to: 

second only to the incomparable Vi 5-/1. This very popular cartridge has, a list price of $49.95, but sells 
Mother of Perpetual Help
Krashna revealed that he had 
Rev. Donald C. Campbell, CS.P.

prayers and the liturgy every
"no idea now" how much 
at RMS for only $25.00 

Vocation Director for from the Trustees, but 
Thursday at 7:00 PM in the
money the committee would ask 
Holy Cross Mission House 

cpauJist,...

Chapel located on the Fatima
indicated that it would be "in 

'Pat11er;G

Retreat House grounds. If
the millions of dollars." 





~-~~~~~~I 
time is inconvenient or more 
Room 111 again next Tuesday at 7:00PM. 
The Committee will meet 

i::::~~~~w.~~ 
415 West 59tb Street Scheduled for discussion is a 
information is wished, call 

New York, N.Y. 10019 
272-0617 evenings between 

R M S•uooo ---­
possible Committee position 
9-11 PM. paper on coeducation. 

BASEMENT OF FLANNER BASEMENT. OF PLANNER BASEMENT OF PLANNER BASEMENT OF PLANNER : 

AMERICA 

-IN CONCERT ­

JIM BALCERSKI 
AND 


EDWARD SHEEHY 

-FRIDAY AND SATURDAY­

1:30 P.M. $1.00 AMERICA_ 


BASEMENT OF FLANNER 
PLANNER BASEMENT OF FLANNER BASEMENT OF FLANNER 

Page 4 'PUWI' o~Dr'£R•ti:'D

~&. :al4 V~ Thursday, October 22, 1970 



Bill Barz-a sign of things to come 
by J.W. Findling 
enough to score two touch­
is also impressed with the team's 
Observer Sportswriter 
downs.' On Saturday, Septem­
unity and spirit. He says that the
Most passers-by or visitors to 
ber 20, 1969, Bill Barz started 
team works very well together.
Country Club Hills, Illinois no­
for Notre Dame against North­
"If s not a 'rah-rah' attitude; we
tice the sign which welcomes 
western scored 2 touchdowns 
get mentally and physically pre­
them to the small town south of 
and gained 64 · yards in 14 
pared each week and then just
Chicago and also the sign that 
carries. The following day the 
go out and do our job." Barz
proudly boasts of its hero, Bill 
sign went up in Country Club 
definitely displays the con­
Barz. "Bill, Who?" is probably 
Hills. 
fidence and dedication that char­
their initial response. No, he 
Barz has run for 246 yards 
acterizes this great football
wasn't a president or an astro­
and a 4.2 yards per carry average team.
naut. Those who are curious 
this season-not bad considering 
Bill Barz, a marketing major,
enough to stop will soon dis­
the balance and depth of the 
considers living with his fellow
cover that Bill Barz plays foot­
Irish backfield. More important 
students rather than in an athlet­
ball for Notre Dame. And, cer­
than his running ability is Barz's 
ic dormitory as the "best thing
tainly, to the people of Country 
exception ally fine blocking. 
· about Notre Dame. "He enjoys
Club Hills, Illinois that's as good 
Along with the fine offensive having his parents here for foot­
as having a president. 
line Barz contributes to some of ball games. "They come to all
At Notre Dame Bill Barz hard­
the tremendous holes which the games and always bring lots
ly receives such treatment-un­
have been spotted more than of food."
less, of course, you drop by 3 25 
once in opposing defenses. When asked about the possi­
Walsh sometime. His roommates 
Shaking hands with Bill Barz bility of another Irish bowl ap­
will tell you that he was an All­
should tell you something about pearance, Barz, who wants to try
-State Illinois 'back at Rich Cen­
his prowess as a pass receiver. to play pro football after he
tral High School for two years. 
He makes your hand feel pretty graduates in May, points out
The 6'2", 216-pound fullback 
small. Barz is now the team's · that Notre Dame has five more
will then blush, practically apol­
second leading receiver with 1 0 football games before the first
ogize for it, and then ask you 
grabs for 108 yards. Barz coming day of 1971. "Winning those
not to print it. 
out of the backfield on the five games is our goal right now.
Although he isn't Catholic, 
"X-pattern" has been used often ..of course, a bowl game would
Barz wanted to come to Notre 
in crucial situations--such as that be nice." 
Dame. "I knew the football at 
3rd down and nine situation Bill Barz has been a consistent
Notre Dame was the best and I 
deep in Missouri territory fol­performer on this well-balanced
·wanted to play with the best. 
lowing the Tiger's touchdown. and well-led Irish team--picking
I'm very glad I came." Barz 
Theismann sidearmed the pass to up those tough yards, catching
worked his way into the Irish 
Barz who picked up the first those third down passes, and
backfield one week before last 
down on one leg. Barz's six re­blocking those big linebackers.
year's opening game. "It was the 
ceptions, 62 yards rushing~ and Barz and his teammates are de­
last scrimmage before the North­
fine blocking last Saturday won termined to win those next five
western game. I was alternating 
him the "Player of the Game" 
as the second team fullback with games. The bowl game should
award by the ND Touchdown
John Cieszkowski. Jeff Zimmer­take care of itself-the people in
Club. 
man, the first team fullback, was Country Club Hills may even
Barz says that Ara has the
taken out. They put me on the want to put a new coat of paint
Bill Barz, the pri~e of Country Club Hills, is a rough man to pull best mind· for football he has
first team, and before the scrim­on that sign before New Year's
down once he gets m high gear. In this picture it looks as though Bill . ever seen and that his organiza­
mage was over, I was fortunate Day.
is ready to shift into fourth. tional ability is remarkable. Bill 

Irish, Knox vie '" • 'little brother of war' 
of whom never played lacrosse two matches. "We have a lot of plagued two of the teamsby Joe Passiatore a stick with a basket type ar­before. Although spring is la­good players out here,' he said, -starters, as Jeff True is out forObserver Sportswriter rangement at the top. Teams crosse's regular season, teams "but we just haven't realized our the fall with torn ligaments and . Lacrosse, a game rich with tra­now consist of 10 players each work out in the fall to permit potential.yet." Kamer himself has been the vic­dition and yet a unique of whome has his own individual these new players to get the feel He went on to say that only tim of bad knees. 
appeal for today's sports fan, assignment. 
of the game as well as to allow eight of last year's 39 goals came Kamer, not one to take thebursts onto the Notre Dame ath­The object of the game is sim-. 
the older players to reacquaint from the midfield, a position opposition lightly, declared,letic scene Saturday, Oct. 24, pie: hurl the ball into your op­themselves with it. This year's that should contribute 45% of a "Knox will be no pushover andwhen the Notre Dame lacrosse ponents net. Each player's objec­Notre Dame lacrosse team will team's tallies. Kramer admitted, the only way we can beat themclub encounters Knox College of tive is dependent on his position. 
participate in two games this "We just have ·to get more goals is by getting 100% byIllinois. With a history that goes The three attackers are used os­fall. Both games take place at from our midfield, or else..." If everybody."
as far back as the American In­tensibly for scoring. The three home with Michigan on Oct. 31 this then is the case the pressure Lacrosse is definitely on thedian, lacrosse has one of the midfielders are designed to play to follow this Saturday's match shifts to a group of untried upsurge, and perhaps, a gamemost interesting backgrounds of both offense and defense, with with Knox. Sophomores. These include Rich with over 250 years of traditionany modern sport. the three defensemen and the However, team captain Jerry Mullins, Jim Lepley, and Bill and the combined action ofThe game was played by the goalie solely interested in pro­Kamer apparently does not re­Duensing. Also, manning the at­most of today's major sports,Indians long before the Euro­tecting their own goal. The ball gard the two games this fall as tack positions are Mike rates your attendance. 
peans ever landed at America. In is moved about by runnign or exhibition games. He claims, Loughrey and Dave Jurusik. Bill
their version of the game whole passing with the stick (crosse). Saturdays contest will take place that the success of next spring is Foley figures to be the mainstay at 1p.m. behind Stepan Center. 
tribes played on fields which Methods employed by the de­hanging in the balance of the t>f the defense. Injuries havecontained no boundaries and fense to halt the offense include: 
that often times found opposing bodychecking, poking, prying, goals miles apart. Rules back stick checking -almost anything. 
A Bear is coach of wee"
then were non-existent and to Perhaps the most important say the least the game was not technical aspect of lacrosse is of Hattiesburg, prepared his Ole Miss in a 19 game series
HATTIESBURG, Miss. (UPI) ­
one for the faint hearted. stickhandling. The team that can players for the game in the same prior to last weekend and were
P. W. Underwood came here a 
Today, of course, the game maneuver their sticks the best, area where he attained the status handed an embarrassing 69-7 de-. 
couple of years ago with a lot of 
has been modified to the point usually wins. .not too many years ago as one f~at by the Rebels last year. The 
determination and dedication 
where it is a hard-hitting contest Hotbeds of lacrosse today are, of the all time great linemen in f1fth ranked Rebels, led by quar­
stamped this part of Mississippi 
Southern football history.
which requires all of the strength Baltimore, Md., and Long Island, terback Archie Manning were
as "Big Orange Country' and set of football, the finesse of basket­New York. Perennial . powers "We've got a group of kids heavily favored again thi~ year.
out to make that slogan mean 
ball, and the endurance of soc­Johns Hopkins, Maryland, Army something. that knows it takes a team effort A native of Flat Creek, Ala., and Navy bear this out. Yet, and a lot of second effort," Un­
cer. The field of play has been Underwood began his football
It did last week. 
each year the sport continues to derwood said. "They worked
reduced to the. size of a football Underwood, known as "Bear" career at Cordova Ala. High 
grow in colleges across the coun­with some faith that they could
field. Goals are six feet by six School, then followed with a
in these parts where he is head 
try. More and more football win and they dedicated them­
feet and are tended by a goalie football coach at the University year at Missippi State University. 
coaches are instructing their selves that week." 
who, understandably enough, is of Southern Mississippi, cele­After a service stint and three 
players to play lacrosse in the "They have enough faith to
well covered with protective brated his 29th birthday last Fri­years of stardom as a Southern 
spring. And, in fact, most college believe they can win and the
gear. Rules have been added to day, but it wasn't until Saturday lineman, he played two years of 
players of lacrosse were un­courage to display that kind of
transform what used to be full professional football in the
that his team gave him a pres­
.faith," he said. "[ would like to arrived on campus. .take the credit but it all belongs fledged battles into what is now familiar with the game until they ent-and what a present. Canadian League where he was 
known as just the "little brother The unheralded Southerns up­named to the league's "Fabulous of war.~ Among the new Here at Notre Dame, !a­-to them." Fifties" team.
set mighty Ole Miss, 30-14, at 
changes has been the addition of crosses's most impressive growth Southern had never beaten
Oxford in one of the big sur­
referees whose responsibility it is has taken place in the last three 
prises of college football in 
to guard against: slashing, cross­years. All present indications 
1970. For his accomplishments,
checking, short sticking, etc. A point to continued improvement 
Underwood was named national 
hard rubber ball about the size of the team, now directed by 
"Coach of the Week" by United 
of a baseball and the bounce of a Jerry Kamer, and Kenny Lund. 
Press International. 
superball is· the focus of atten­This fall witnessed the arrival 
Underwood, who this week
tion. The ball is tossed about by of twenty new candidates, most 
also wears the honorary mayor 



