Hartke holds slim edge 
Two of the contests that are vote n.argin. With 80% of 1.hc In the 3rd dbtrict t f lncia 1a which includes South Bend,
of special interest to the Notre vole reported, V;ince Hartke had Dame campus are the Senatorial received 772,000 votes to John Brademas won an easy vic­election between Vance Hartke R o udebushes 768,000 votes. tory over Donald Newman. and Richard Roudebush and the None of the networks had Br8demas was projected to win Congressional rat:e between John projcl"lcd a winner at this time by approximatdy 20,000 votes. Brademas and Donald Newman. and all of them believed that the This area is traditionally demo­
'Ninner could not be declared un­cratic and the Brademas victoryIndiana is the scene of one of til the early morning. was expected.

the closest of the Senate races. In it, Democratic incumbent Evidently the candidates l~lt The Democrats swept all of Vance llartke is battling Rep­the same way HHtke went 1o St. Joseph County. Among the casualties was former Notre
resentative Richard Roudebush. bed at I a.m. and will not make The vote prorni-;cs to go down to a statement unti! mornin(';. Dame security chief Elmer Sokol the wire. who was defeated in his bid for
Roudebush announced that he 
re-election to the office of Coun­

At 2 a.m. the two candidates will have nothing to say until the· Sucessfully re-elected Congressman John Brademas were seParated by only a 4000 morning. ty Sheriff. 




Vof(ECTION SiieO"WS'~;ntNOgeC>M;AJOR j'ii'END'"w 
In the sixteen key senate elec-Duffy of Connecticut. In addi-The ,;l"-,llblican gains in the 1·. . 1 · 1 . d f: 1 . tions in which President Nixon tion, with 85% of the vote re-three den~ocratic Senate seats ts ear~ ev;n~g ~a overdc ~a-In the undecided races Vance 
d · . . · 'h ortin in New York Conserva-· · .' . ' enger an ornson an m-Hartke held a 51-49% lead in In­
lai h1s personal prestige on t e P_ g _ were offset by a narrow victory cumbents Vance Hartke (Dem.) d · ·th 92at f line Republican candidates won tJve candidate James Buckley, by Rep John Tunney over in-. I d·· . . d R b t T ft Jana WI ro o the vote re­onl; three of the races and were who although not oj)cnly en-cum be~t Republican Georoe (mR, n) J~naO;.n . ? te~ tha. ported. Roman Hrusk_a also led 
, . . . . . ~ ep. m 10, mam am e1r by a 51-49% margm with 59% of leadmg m only two ot~ers, while dorsed by Nixon was considered Murphy and the landslide VIC-close leads, the predicted Repub­losmg 11. Howe_ver,_ Nixon _num-to have his endorsemen7 led tory of Adlai Stevenson Ill over lican gain in the Senate is only the vote in. In Ohio, Robert Taft bered am_ong his _victims liberal Democrat Richard Ottinger 39% incumbent Republican Ralph one seat, leaving the Democrats held a slight margin over his op­d,emocr~tic candidates Albert to 37%, with deserted Republi-Tyler Smith. with a projected majority of ponent Howard Metzenbaum 
(,_ore of Tennessee, Joseph Ty-can Charles Goodell trailing with Provided that Republican Sen-56-44. 51-47%, with 83% of the vote in: dmgs of Maryland, and Joseph 24%. ator Roman Hruska maintained The over-all pattern indicated In Alaska, the Republican Stevens was leading his Demo­
that Nixon would have four new cratic opponent Kay 53% toSenators who would be likely to L -% with only 6% of the totalsupport his position (Buckley

ZPG's abortion program 
vote reported.
in New York, G: Beall from Maryland, Bensten from Texas In Illinois, with 68% of theand William Brock from Tenn.): 

vote in, Stevenson had gainedand three Senators which would

advocates liberal code 
59% of the vote. However, hebe less likdy to support him
by Kevin McGill was leading in southern Illinois,
that up to 21 weeks the fetus is Dr. William Shriever, a gyne­(John Tunney from California .
Five authorities from the Uni­

definitely non-viable, but tl!at cologist, appealed to a "morality Stevenson from Illinois anct
versity and from South Bend some would allow abortion until of starvation," claiming that the Laughton Chiles from Florida). (Continued on paf(e 8)spoke last night to an overflow the twenty-ninth week. A mem­world population is growing tooaudience at the Planner Hall Pit ber of the audience later ques­rapidly for its own survival. "Byon various aspects of abortion. 

Political campaigns 
tioned the validity of this help­the year 51 00," he said, "the
The program, sponsored by the lessness as a measure for lack of population, if it continues as it
Notre Dame Biology Depart­humanity. He remarked that no does now, will have consumed 

find campus support 
m c n t and Zero Population one who is alive can hope to the matter of the ;::arth and theGrowth, presented arguments UPI -Have students, who

survive for long. sun will be expanding at the candidates with one of theand ideas on both sides of the Fr. Charles Sheedy took it speed of light." Dr. Shriever also -tuned in and turned on to pol­largest and cheapest supplies of
ethical and psychological consid­upon himself to present the itics last spring, dropped out? drudge labor available, evenerations of abortion and its im­
spoke of a number of abortion A Princeton professor believes though the' expectations of theCatholic moralistic view of abor­pact on society. 
methods both in use now and most of them never turned on in movement have not been fullytion. The head of Notre Dame'sThe first speaker, Dr. Kenyon the first place.
under experimentation. realized.
Theology Department,cited theTweedell, head of Notre Dame's Mrs. Melba Laird, from the A Georgetown University Prof. Henry Bienen of Prince­differences between law andBiology Department, gave a bio­South Bend Mental Health sophomore says students, like. ton University, co-director ofmorality and stated that thelogical definition of abortion as many adults, are suffering from the Movement for a New Con­

Clinic, said that "there is no evi­
moral solution to abortion might"the induced removal of a non­dence that abortion as such apathy. gress, estimated that as ·many asdiffer from the legal solution. He viable fetus from the womb." 

A conservative student leader 50,000 students from about 40
creates psychological problems
felt that in all cases the moral,The major difficulty, he said, is says candidates want nothing to

in the mothers." She called abor-cooperating schools are partici­the "inward imperative," mustin defining the duration of the tion a "people problem" and do with student volunteers be­pating in campaigns for antiwarbe followed on the individualnon-viability of the fetus, or the cause of voter resentment candidates.
said that it should be solved by a
level, but that morality is notage the fetus must attain to al­towards campus violence. 

woman and her doctor. A priest
low it to survive as a premature subjective but is an art that is Whatever the reason, a newly At the other end of the polit­child outside the womb. He said absolutely right or wrong. (Continued on page 3) silent majority of American stu­ical spectrum, Conservative dents is sitting out the 1970 James Buckley says 6,000 stu­election campaign, even on cam­dents are working in his New


Finance Committee: a Proposal 
puses where they have been York Senate campaign and the given time off from classes to

by Greg Rowinski and to the Student Union. Stu-fy where the cuts should be Young Americans for Freedom 
participate.

The Finance Committee dent Government's projected made, according to Weber, but it Y AF in Washington estimates 
The massive mobilization of

will propose a hudget of share would be $13,100. The was assumed that the cut would that "tens of thousands" of cam­
students to work in campaigns

$65,094 to the Student Senate, Student Union's budget includes be made in the allocations to the pus conservatives are active in 
for antiwar candidates, which

according to Stay Senator Pat a $15,000 increase ove: last CAC arul. the Academic Commis­other areas. 
some observers foresaw after the

Weber. The Committee put the year. The increase is a direct re-sion. "There will be some The concensus seems to be 
widespread campus protests over

finishing touches on what Weber suit of the placing of the Cul-kicking in the Senate," accord­that, although man.y students are 
Cambodia last May, has not

called a "lean" budget after a tural Arts Commissiun within ing to Weber over this alloJation, disillusioned and the war issue 
rna terialized. 

3-hour meeting last night. Weber the Union. The three component since the CAC in the past has has been defused, there is just as 
Nonetheless, a cadre of many

suspected that there would be groups of the CAC, Cinema '71, budgeted losses with some of much political activity if not 
thousands of young men andbickering in the Senate over Sophomore Literary Festival, their programs. 

women -both conservatives and more than in the I 968 "chil­some of the allocations, and in-and Contemporary Arts Festival, The Hall Presidents' Council liberals -have been ringing door­dren's crusade" of Eugenedicated a number of places will receive larger budgets this will face a $1500 cut. Weber ex­bells, stuffing campaign litera­McCarthy. The difference is thatwhere some "fat could be cut year, since they will be more ac-plained that the Committee saw ture into envelopes and manning McChrthy . "children" are notaway." tive than last year. The budget value in the Council's An Tostal telephones across the nation on children any more, but exper­Major shares of the budget will be less than the Union re-weekend but felt that a major behalf of candidates in the Nov. ienced political apprenticeswill go to the 3:udent Govern-quested by almost $5000. portion of its expense should re­3 elections. They have provided valued by many candidates.
ment Administration expenses The Committee did not speci-(Continued on page 6) 


Page 2 THE OBSERUER. 
OBSERVER 


POSITION OPENING 
Ass't. Business Mgr. 
! 
Calf Bruce 747l fW 6787 


!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~::!:~~:!:~~Athletic and Convocation Center. 
line if the demand is evident 


Sergio Mendes 
& 


Brasil '66 

with C•••r Anderson 
•net Don Sherm•n 
Saturday, Nov. 7 
8:30 in ACC Tickets $5, $4, and $2 at Student Union Ticket Office and Dining Halls (Tues., Wed., Thurs.) presented by Student Union Social Commission & ACC 
~.'
I 
•
_..,·: 
' 
' 
: ~ 
,. ~ ,-~..,.. 
•' 
,J.; ..
'· 
:'l/ ~-­
~ ~· \? ~' 

Concert season finalized with Rare Earth booking
the night before Notre Dame's with The Chambers Brothers hut 
by Dave Bach home basketball opener with The Student Union Social 
South Carolina. Commission has rounded out its Porst said that the Commis­fall concert season with the ad­sian had decided to bring the 
dition of the Cham hers Brothers, Pacific (;as and Electric Com­The Pacific Gas and Electric pany and Rare Earth for stu­Company and Rare Earth. dents who have complained 
Social Cbmmission Chairman about a lack of "hard rock" Jim Porst said yesterday that the entertainment. Pacific Gas and Electric Com-
Porst said that the student 

pany will be appearing in Stepan Union Social Commission willCenter Friday, Nov. 13. in the plan more concerts along this 
from the two fall concerts.

The Chambers Brothers, after a popular campus appearance Groups that Porst mentioned last fall, will return to the Con­as possibilities, if the demand is vocation Center Saturday, Nov. great enough, included Ten 
21. Their co-stars will probably Y cars After and Delaney and be Martha Reeves and the Bonnie. Vandellas, although this has not been definitely confirmed, Porst Porst also said that the 
Commission was still negotiating 

The final Concert of the fall with the Jefferson Airplane and feature Rare Earth with Richie Havens. He said that they Rock on Friday, Dec. 4, tried to get Havens on the bill 


Feb. 4-9 fixed as Mardi Gras weekend 
This year's Mardi Gras, desig­nated Notre Dame Expo '71, will be held in Stepan Center starting ori Thursday Feburary 4 and ending on Feburary 9, a Tuesday. The Mardi Gras will represent a World's Fair pat­terned after Montreal's Expo 67. 
Chairman of the event, Greg Stepic said that "in the past years, the charitable part of the Mardi Gras has been dwindling, so much that the Mardi Gras spirit was almost entirely lost. This year we intend to empha­size more the charitable aspect of the event." 
Already halls and clubs are designing booths for the Stepan Center carnivaL The architects of the booths will have their displays fall under the all­encompassing theme of a world's fair. Along with the carnival, a 
1971 Luxury Sedan Oldsmobile 
WHO IS 
K•thr Hessert? 
SEE THURSDAY'S 
OBSERVER 
NOW 
...,_,, 
.:--: . . '
r1"511Mt 








,C-liP 
THERE WAS A MILLION DOLlARS GONE-QUESTION, WHO PICKED IT UP 
will be raffled off. The proceeds from the raffle and the inexpen­sive admission fee for the event will go to the NO Charities. 
All students who manage to sell one book of raffle tickets will receive free admission to the Mardi Gras along with one chance toward winning the student grand prize of a 1970 Fiat 124 Spider. For every raffle chance sold, the student will receive a 20% com mission. 
Stepic commented, "To boost student enthusiasm concerning the raffle, campus prizes, and interhall prizes will be set up as incentive." The top seller on the NO campus will receive a prize of $500. The second best seller will net $250 and the third, fourth, and the fifth best sales­men will receive $1 00 each. 01 the St. Mary's campus, the top seller will win $250. The girls 
Naval Air team offen advice 
A Naval Aviation Information Team headed by Lt. Jim Cole­man W'ill spend four days on campus at Notre Dame Univer­sity to counsel and advise stu­dents on a career in Navy air. Lt. Coleman shot.ld arrive on cam­pus before noon on November 3rd, and will be available to interested students from 9:00 
Proof of Age Required 
Dana never thought everyone would take it so serious,y 
couldn't work out an agreeable date. He hopes that both can be scheduled this spring. 
Pat McAdams, who is in charge of the Social Commission's free "over the hill" concert series said that after running for three weeks in a row, the concerts will probably be staged every other week from now on. He said that since the series is run on a loss-only. basis, they are trying to keep expenses to a minimum while maintaining the "breaks" on Wednesday evening, as often as possible. 
The Cultural Arts Commission has also scheduled the Grateful Dead for a Feb. 14 appearance. The concert for the Mardi Gras Weekend, Feb. 5, which will be sponsored by the Social Com­mission is yet to be scheduled. 
who sell second and third most chances will receive $100, while the fourth and fifth most profi­cient saleswomen will net them­selves $50 each. 
On the hall level, the hall which sells the greatest numher of books per number of resi­dents will merit a prize of $500. The top seller will win $50. There will also be a commis­
sion for those who take on the 
responsibility of hall representa­
tive. If less than 3,000 books are 
sold, the rep will receive a 2% 
commission after the student 
commissions are subtracted. If 
between 3,000 and 4,000 books 
are purchased the commission 
rises to 3% and if more than 
4,000 books are sold, the 
commission will be 5%. 
The total profits from the 
Mardi Gras go to the Notre 
Dame Charities . 
AM till 4:00 PM thru November 6th. The team will be stationed in the South Dining Hall. 
The Navy currently has open­ings in three aviation programs, pilot, flight officer, and air in­telligence. All of these programs lead to a commission as an of­ficer in the United States Navy, and all, except air intelligence, enable qualified applicants to compete for the Navy's "Wings of Gold". Primary training is at the Na,yy's ·~AMapolis of the Air", Naval Air Station, Pensa­cola, Florida. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Ob· server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 


Abortion termed ZPG ''backup'' 
(Continued from page 1) 
in the audience later protested these facts. recounting from his own experience girls who had had abortionsand had later com­mitted suicide. Dr. Shriever re­minded him of the many sui­cides by those refused abortion, and related that a number of British investigations disclosed that only between zero and 30 per cent of the women who have abortions have any guilt feelings. 
The last speaker, Dr. Thomas Paulson of Zero Population Growth, told that the goal of that organization is to stabilize the growth rate. Pointing out that a small but affluent group can create more waste than alar­ger impoverished class, he called for something to be done now on a voluntary basis before con­ditionsof overcrowding and pollution approach calamity and the state must intervene in the area of birth control. H·~ said that he regarded abortion not as a way to control population, but as a backup to other methods of contraception. 
"Morality," said Dr. Paulson, "corries to be a reJative matter. The right of the fetus to be born must be balanced against its right to be born into a family that wants it and is able to pro­vide it witli certain material good. Unwanted children turn out to have more moral and 
psychological  problems  than  a  
comparable  child  born  into  a  
welcoming family."  

In the short rebuttal after the 

fonda arrested for assault .. 
(UP!) -Film star Jane Fonda was arrested Tuesday after she allegedly kicked and slapped a policeman and screamed "get out of here, you pig." 
Miss ronda was taken to the Cuyahoga County jail on a war­rant signed by U.S. Commis­sioner Clifford E. Bruce charging her with smuggling and assault. 
It was reported vials of pills were found in her luggage when she arrived by plane at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport. 
Patrolman Robert Piper, who assisted airport customs agent Richard Matuszak in the arrest, said Miss Fonda slapped him in the face and kicked him. 
The actress was represented 

by Mark Lane, Boston attorney who wrote "Rush to Judgment", which was severely critical of the investigation into the assassina­tion of President John F. 
Kennedy. 
Lane said Miss Fonda was on 
a tour of colleges and univer­
sities in the U.S. and Canada to 
speak against the war in Indo­
china. 
"Because of this she is har­
rassed by the authorities " she 
she said. "Her arrest was ~n act 
of terror, an act of violence ... 
this is the Nixon-Agnew terror." 
Lane said Miss Fonda had asked M<Jtuszak if she could go to the ladies room. 
"This big, burly federal agent wouldn't allow it, so she put up a fuss," Lane said. 
Miss Fonda spoke at Fanshaw College in London, Ont., Mon­day night. 
"There is only repression and prison for anyone trying to do anything in America," Miss ron­da said at Fanshaw. "The gov­ernment must be replaced." 
The actress was arrested last March with a group of Indians who attempted to take over an Army post on Puget Sound. 


Won't you ltelp7 
If you have a car, and would like to drive underprivileged South Bend children to and from the Georgia Tech game on Sat., Nov. 14, come to a short meeting tonight at 8:30 in the amphitheater of LaFortune Student Center. If you would just like to be a monitor for the children during the game, come tonite also.We need your help! 
Need a home? 
You probably haven't considered buying 
one while you're in schooL But this week­
end, we can sell students needing off­
campus housing a home for as low as 
$3,895. It's a mobile home-fully fur­
nished, complete with major appliances. 
No more money down the drain. No more 
people upstairs. You'll have a new and 
comfortable home, privacy, and most im­portant, an investment ... all for monthly 
payments that are probably lower than 
what you're now paying for rent. 
Sound too good? Come see us this week­end during our open house. 
You'll be surprised. 
Greenbrook Estates 
Mayflower and Sample 
South Bend 

Mobile Home Sales and Lot Rentals 
talks and the questions and an­swers that followed, a number of points were touched upon. With the exception of Fr. Sheedy, the panel seemed to agree with the abortion law in New York which allows legal abortions to anyone. 
They agreed that this should be easily available to the under­privileged. 

Russ lecture 
Alexandre Bennigsen, Russian political scientist and currently Director of higher education at the University of Paris, will speak in the Architecture Auditorium tonight at 8:00p.m. 
Bennigsen who is 
co-sponsored by the Student 
Union Academic Commission, 
and the Program of Soviet and 
East European S.udies has 
written five books on Russia and 
its people . His subject will be 
'Tile Non-Russian Peoples of 
the Soviet Union." 
Admission is free. 

Left to right: Fr. Chas. Sheedy and Drs. Kenyon Tweedel and Thomas Paulson 

Applicants are wanted for the twelve student positions on the Campus Judicial Board. Any Notre Dame student • 
who is in academic and disciplinary good standing may apply. Please send the application to: 
Rich Urda 
Judicial Coordinator 
Box 522 
Student Government 
:;:~~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:::~:::::::::::::::!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~=: 









:&:~ ?j~ ;tf'i &B ~C• -,Ifill ·1~4 
0 

*Student Billing Card 
With this card, a dorm resi­
dent may make long distance calls 
with the privacy of the dorm room 
phone and get an individual bill 
once a month. 
Jlnd even take advantage of 
Direct Distance Dialing . . . the 
faster, easier way to call long 
distance. 
Your Student Billing Card 
is waiting (if you haven't already· 
picked it up) at the Indiana Bell 
Business Office. Just ask. 
@Indiana Bell 
Page 4 






THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 

GLEN S. CORSO, Editor-in-Chief JOHN E. KNORR, Executive Editor 
BRUCE RIECK, Business Manager 
F.OUNDED NOVEMBER ~. 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
The Budget 

The academic year is a good percentage over with now, and still the budget has not been passed. Most organizations have been forced to operate on budgets that have not been passed, spending money, which they essentially anticipate but do not have. Some of those organizations, frankly, are in for a rude awakening, and will be in for a ruder awakening if the Senate itself tries to balance the budget and end Student Government's financially embarassing debt to the University. 
This tragedy is enacted every year. The late budget puts a lot of organizations on the spot, and when the budget requests finally do reach the Senate, a lot of unnecessary ill will is caused by the c·ontlict between desperate organizations and firm Senates. 
The Observer believes that a lot of this ill will could be circumvented. The Obserl'er believes that a number of simple procedural modifications could wipe out the November dread. 
Obviously, the Senate, or whatever body ends up considering the budget, must be elected earlier in the year. This year, the Senate was elected a full month after school had opened. President Krashna did not call a meeting until late October. The Senate begins considering the budget today, November fourth. By this time, many organizations have already spent amounts of money approaching their budget requests. 
rec~;:~e~~~~~~:n ~{ 'so~~w:;e;he t~;ho~:n~~~; s;a~~~~~ea~ :;:~;~s ~~a ;e~~~ bt~s :a:.~~ :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::i::::::::::::::::::::: Who divides consider the budget over the vacation, and in the last months of the previous semester. That means, too, that organizations should have their requests in, not at the beginning of The latest war-chant of the Left is that THE NIXON ADMINIS­the school year, but by May 1 of the previous year. TRATION IS DIVIDING THE NATION! Nixon and Agnew are
·• "ripping the nation apart" in their divisive nosedive toward Most organizations change hands April 1. New organization heads should have a month demagoguery" says Bill Mitchell in last week's Scholastic with not a to consider their budget means, and under the new proposal they would have that month. little demagoguery in the saying of it. 


But by May first, every responsible organization should be able to submit a budget request and a justification for that request to the Finance Committee. 
By the same token, there is no reason to believe that the Senate Finance Committee would need more than the month of May to thrash out the budget requests and present something to the Senate. If the Senate takes its customary two weeks or so to determine the budget, a budget should be ready by late September, rather than middle November. 
The problem has grown to be sufficiently dangerous, now, and it's time to act. 

LEIIERS--­
Tech Tickets Editor: 

I was deeply disturbed by your editorial in Friday's copy of The Observer. It concerned the so-called tick~t crisis existing for the Georgia Tech football game. The time has come, I think, to discuss the whole topic of student ticket passes anyway. 
First, let me say that I am neutral concerning the idea which would allow South Bend kids to attend the game. By neutral I mean that I am not willing to give up my ticket. But, if it came down to it, I would buy one of the kids a ticket for the game myself. I think the kids deserve it and if anyone is will­ing to sell me a ticket for the Georgia Tech game (regular or student), please feel free to call me at 1633. I will personally give it to Student Government for use in the program. 
Second, why is it that the stu­dent can not do what he wants with his or her student ticket? After all, there are some stu­dents who have acquired tickets who have no use for them. Wouldn't it be easier to ask all those students to give their names in if they wanted a ticket for the game and then charge them for it. The present way gives some student an unw~ntcd ticket which they sell for enor­mous prices. I say, instead of the pass, give the student five tickets. The ones he can not use, he can give back and get a re­fund. 
Finally, if I may be allowed to go back to S:udent Govern­ment's plan. If Notre Dame is an instiiution which is for all brothers, black or white, rich or poor, Catholic or non-Catholic, how do you expect us to show the whole world our awareness of this fact, Father Joyce. Please reconsider. 
I urge all students, if the idea is not reversed, to buy tickets and turn them into Student Government. If I can get one, I will. Anyone wanting to sell a student or regular ticket, please call John at 1633 or write to me at Dillon Hall Rm. I 59. 
Thank you. 
Sincerely yours, 
John Fineran 
SMC Sit-Ins 
Editor: 
A lot of girls are in a disgusted, discouraged, and disillusioned mood tonight. It is Friday night, a "big night"! We just came back from dinner, the big activity of the evening. The letter to the Editor in Thurs­day's Observer becomes our main topic of conversation. We are quite amused with the lette:­from A Typical Notre Dame Man. 
It is held in common belief at 
the University of Notre Dame 
that all St. Mary's girls do not 
know what it is to not hav~ a 
date on every night of the we,,I,. 
Little do they know that many St. Mary's girls suffer from oatetess weekends (especially upperclassmen) due to the mis­conception that many N.D. men hold -that we are booked solid months in advance, that our 

only aim is a Senior football player, and that everyone here is "without pity." Every once in awhile we see a boy and a girl together, walking along, hand in hand, talking and laughing. It saddens a girl to have this vital part of her life missing -and not voluntarily. But, after all,. we do get a "good" education at St. Mary's. 
We attend parties where we arc made to feel like the object of some drunk's tactile gratifica­tion, or else to be snubbed Jik.: a victim of the Bubonic Plague. (Not because we're ugly, but be­cause we look like a "Frigid B---" or because we look like a "Rich B--.") And so we come back and read a book, write let­ters, or do our laundry. "We have so mu~.:h fun, •: but is it worth it? 
Sure men, we feel ~orry if you don't have dates, but at least you can attribute the cause to the limited amount of women. How would you like it if the odds were five ro one in your favor, and you still didn't have a 
date? Thanks for listening to the other side. 
Some Typical St. Mary's Women 
It really is difficult to take such arguments seriously. After all, the very people who make the accusation having nothing at all againsi "ripping the nation apart" if it happens to concern a policy they favor. The anti-war and black power people have accomplished the dividing of the nation more fully than anyone would have believed possible ten years ago. Their own words and actions demonstrate incontrovertibly that "division" is not what they really object to. It is the particular policies themselves that are the focus of the objection, not the division they cause. 
The critics contend that the present administration is appealing to interests groups rather than aiming at the common good of the nation. Translated into clearer language this reads "Mr. Nixon, quit trying to get the votes of all those people who agree with you and disagree with us, since we're the ones who know what's best for our country." It's as if the administration were forbidden to point out to various groups what benefits they may expect from the policies that President Nixon regards as best furthering the common good. (An example of appealing to interest groups to the detriment of the common good is available-but it's not Nixon. It is the Democratic Congress which has added billions of dollars to this year's budget in order to please different interests, even though this significantly hurts the fight against inflation which clearly constitutes the overriding economic need of the country at the present time.) Anything the President does is bound to alienate some-in fact, many-people, and to that extent is bound to cause division. 
Was the nation less divided in 1962 or 1966, when Kennedy and Johnson had been in office for two years? Who is it that the Left contends will not divide the country? George McGovern? Ted Kennedy?-Jane Fonda? C'mon fellas, give us a break. 
Why all this tuss about "unity" and "divisiveness'"/ Because it enables these carping critics who are eternally unsatisfied with everything but themselves to assume a statesmanlike pose with the righteous indignation of a patriot who abhors factious leaders (the very thing for which they call Agnew an "outrageous and obscene person"), are dividing our beloved nation. We would never do that. We seek only national unity." 
What the Left wants is is indeed unity -as long as it is a unity on their terms and no one else's. The argument that the Nixon administration is ripping the nation apart in rhetorical pretense, a shoddy and hypocritical pose which serves only to conceal the deficiency of their positions on real is~ues. 
Managing Editor: Bill "The Pen" Associate Editors: D~vC, Stauffer, Carter Sue Bury 
Editorial Page Editor: T.C. "The Night Editors: Mary Chris (&Hap-
Polemic" Treanor PY r~ew) ll::l.orrison, Ann "You. Guys• News Editor: Ed "The Nose for Conway < News" Ellis Headlines: Jim "The Hilad" Roe 
Features Editor: "Feature Layout Design: Joe "The God­reature" Dave Lammers father" Cassin! 
Sports Editor: Terry "The Jock" Layout: Daniel x.V.Y.Z. Kopen­hields haver SMC Editor: "Sweet Jeanie" Controller t>f the Night: Rick wP•mey Smith 


WAITING FOR THE GIPPER 
A Tragicomedy in One long and Dreary act or Ghosts I have_ Known and Flown With 
By T. C. Treanor 
The Setting: On Stage at Washington Hall, surrounded by Ouiji Boards, Tarot Cards, candles, mystics, and a Ghost Gun (a sort ofsupernatural Elephant Gun.) 
Washington Hall is Notre Dame's haunted hall. It is haunted by the Ghost of the Gipper, who, deep and sensitive soul that he was, came back here to pre· pare for the musical career he never had by playing the piano at night. Or maybe it's haunted by the young swain who, in I942 hanged himselfwhen rejected by his young love and who spawned a rash of University cover-up maneuvers. He alleg­ed(v hangs around now at night. 
Or perhaps it is haunted by the old priest who used to steal money from the poor house at Sacred Heart, and, who after dying found Sacred Heard too crowded to haunt, what with Orestes Brownson and all. 
Or· perhaps it is haunted by the frus­trated actor who took his role too ser­iously and jumped off the balcony. Who knows? 
In order to chart the Ghost's comings and going this Halloween, the drama de­partment imported several of its number, as well as WSND's Frank Devine, and This Correspvndant. The Characters: Any first names are listed ostensibly to protect the people, but in reality because I never learned their last names. 
L. franklin Devine: crafty, perceptive, and reasonably intelligent, Devine has nonetheless managed to rise to a position of power in WSND. Devine shrewdly managed the whole procedure for a 3 AM broadmst to eight people on WSND. 
George T.-: does not believe in Ghosts, poltergeists, walking skeletons, or Santa Claus. Does believe in getting on the radio. 
Bob S.-: resident historian. One of three people who knows all about Gipp and his ghost. One ofone who cares. 
Chris H-: Resident mystic. Nice kid. The other day her ouiji board told her where her key was. I wish I had a ouiji board like that. I've lost eight. 
Lois M.--: Surrogate mystic. Tells ofa 
friend who had a ouiji hoard which "at­
must made love tv her. " I had no idea 
Parker Brothers provided such services. 
Mark G.--: Looks a little like Tim Mac­
Carry with a heard. Talks a little like 
Richard Nixon. Afraid to ask him what 
his politics were. Does a nice Ouiji Board. 
Kathrine R.--: Accused by Ouiji Board 
of being a Warlord. Other than that, nice 
kid. 

Several Rabble: diverse personalities 
too numerous to categorize. 

Cast of thousands ofGhosts. 
This Correspondant: (T.C.) 
Act I Scene I 

L. Franklin Devine: Well, here we are 
in Washington Hall... Rabble: Snap out the Ouiji Board! 
L. Franklin Devine: ...for WSND and 
this is Frank Devine... ' Rabble: Get a pin for the Gliji Board! 
L. Franklin Devine: ...for WSND, the voice of the Fighting Irish, and we're here at Washington Hall. 
Unidentified Rabble: I've got a nail. 
L. Franklin Devine: We're going to be looking for the Gipper, trying to find out . if he really exists ... 
Chris: It can't be just any old pin, it's got to be the pin that come with it. 
L. Franklin Devine: ...of course, if he does exist, we're in all sorts of trouble heh, heh... ' 
Unidentified Rabble: I've got a safety pin. 
L. Franklin Devine: With me, I've got George T.--, who's responsible for this whole show tonight. 
Mllrk G--: Here, straighten the s~fety pin! Chris H-: It has to come with the· Ouiji Board! 
L. franklin Devine: What do you have to say for our audience at WSND AM and FM? ' 
George T-: Well, here we are in Wash­ington Hall ... 

Rabble: We've got the Ouiji Board working! 
L. Franklin Devine: I'm Frank Devine, and I'm here for WSND at Washington Hall. We're now down here on stage, right next to the Ouiji Board. 
Lois M-: Let me take one side of the Ouiji Board! Kathrine R---: I'll take the other side. 
L. Franklin Devine: This is Frank De­
vine for WSND ... Rabble: What's it say? What's it say? 
L. Franklin Devine: ... and we're here 
on the stage of Washington Hall... More rabble: Sssh! Ouiji Board: MXPPT AVUOWN 
JOIHOH AIHNEV080 Chris: Is anyone writing this down? Mark: I will-hold on. 
Ouiji Board: MONWIEN AINDFEFUPOIUN AlNINlE AX Chris: It said AX! (Some rabble faint.) 
L. Franklin Devine: Is it a cryptogram? Remaining Rabble: Why don't you ask 
it'! 
Lois: Are you a cryptogram? 

Ouiji Board: MSXXXY TYO FKFUN 
I-IlNE ALLLKNHBJ 

Lois: Why don't you talk so we under­
stand? 

Ouiji Board: MCYOJNGOK OIP 
LHHLBEl ALKHD NONALN IOK PPC Chris: I think it's a hostile spirit. Lois: Are you a hostile spirit? Ouiji Board: NOTYER FHHYTO 
L. Franklin Devine: Here we are at Washington Hall, and I'm Frank Devine for WSND ... 
Katey: What are you here for? Ouiji Board: W-A-R... Unidentified Rabble: None of this 
stuff. Ouiji Board: L-0 

L. Franklin Devine: l know what the 
last two letters will he: Ouiji Board: RR-D (more rabble faint.) 
Chris H-: Wait, there's more! Ouiji Board: K-A-T -E-Y (All the rest of rabble faint.) This Correspondent: Revive the rabble! (rabble revived.) Rabble: What happened? What hap­pened? 
Chris I-1--: I think we've got an evil spirit. 
L. Franklin Devine: What would hap­pen if we turned the board upside down? 
This Correspondent: (frightened) Don't mess with the devil, Frank! (Devine turns board upside down.) Lois and Kath­rine continue to Ouiji.) 
Rabble: What's it say? What's it say? Ouiji Board: IOIOI FPK GOGN ONIUEUN FRT OOX MMN 
Unidentified Rabble: Maybe it doesn't speak English; 
Lois: Do you speak English? 
Ouiji Board: MNO 981 GHHTY 
Lois: Do yo uu speak Latin? 
Ouiii Board: NNGHYU OIOI BEBE 
REBOZO 
Lois: Do you speak Greek? 
Ouiji Board: COGITO ERGO SUM 
Rabble: It's no use! It's no use! 
Bob S--: I'm going to St. Mary's to 
drop some rabble off. Anybody want to 
come along? 
Warlord Katey: Yeah, I think I'll come. 
Mark G--: Me too. 
BobS--: I'll be back. Wait for me. 
All: Okay (he leaves.) 
Unidentified rabble: Where's Bob? 
Chris H--: He's gone over to St. 
Mary's. He asked us to wait outside. 
Lois: I don't like it here. 
Chris H-: There's an evil spirit here. 
Lois: Let's wait outside. 
L. Franklin Devine: But the Gipper 
hasn't come yet. Lois: Let's wait outside. 
L. Franklin Devine: But it's eighty degrees below zero outside, and there's a tornado out there ! 
This Correspondent: Don't mess with 
the devil, Frank! (they go outside.) 
Scene II, outside. 
Chris H-: l hope you wouldn't mind if 
I went home? 
Lois R-: Or me? 
This Correspondent: Or me? 
Rest of Rabble: Or me? 
(They depart, leaving L. Franklin ~:£­
vine waiting for the Gipper and the Sun.) 
For the deep underlying existential message, put this cryptogram to the mir­ror. 

§i~cond City: okay
By Frank 

Did you ever have such a good time 
that you really didn't want to talk about 
it? Remember being seven or eight years 
old ~nd coming home from Swiss Family 
Robmson or Son of Flubber and having 
your parents ask how was the movie? 
:ou'd mum?,le something like "Aughhh, 
It was okay. Not because you didn't like 
it, but because it was so much fun ... And 
Besides how do you retell the good 
feelings you got when you laughed too 
hard or when Gabby and Chuck threw 
the flattened popcorn boxes at the screen 
and the ushe!" came down the aisle with 
his flashlight but walked by you and 
shined it over the other way? So you just 
mumble that the show was okay and hope 
that they don't pursue it. 

The Second City Touring Company 
was here Saturday night with a Revue 
called "Cooler by the Lake". In fact, it 
was one of those good times that was so 
much fun that you hesitate to talk about 
it: Five guys and two girls, aided by a 
ptano player, an upright, and six ice 
cream parlor chairs made us laugh Satur­
day night not only laugh, but laugh at 
ourselves, an event all too rare during the 
past few months. 

The Second City Company is one of 
the centers of genuine theatrical creati­vity in America today. Their brand of improvisational theater revue at first ap­pears almost like any other sevies of revue sketches. But there seems to be a very important difference. While most black­out sketches strive after some point in order to make the audience laugh, it seemed that the Second City made us laugh in order to make some point. The revpe is aimed at a particular audience, 
young, educated and middle class. Many of _the laughs were "in" things. Stories whtch would have sailed right by non­-members of the group. The audience was drawn into the action by this sense of belonging. In some sketches the audience ~lmost became an eighth actor, respond­mg as a suburban PTA when the situation called for it. 
Although there were the Nixon and Agnew sketches, the brunt of most of the sketches were the members of the audi­ence -the products of the suburban middle class, and we laughed at ourselves. 
The members of the cast were all 
extraordinarily talented. This isn't at all surprising when you consider some of the Second City alumni, Alan Arkin Barbara Harris, Jack Burns and Avery Schrieber among a myriad of others. The cast's names hastily mumbled during the curtain call may be a familiar in a few years as Mike Nichols, Elaine May or Shelly Ber­man (all alumni of the Second City's predecessor, the Compass Theatre Group). They were able to play the audience as a finely tuned instrument is played by a skilled musician. 
The laughs and sketches were of here and now. they were about smoking dope, about the South Bend cops, about the people at home who go to the PTA about the all too sophisticated Catholic~ who intellectually outgrow the Church and take up astrology, about my parents and my brother, and my roommates and myself -and I laughed and I pondered and then I laughed ev~n harder. 
. The Second City was over at O'Laugh­lm Saturday night -it was okay. 
Page 6 Wednesday, November 4, 1970

T/1£ O.&S'£Rf!l&_ 
~~~==============~~~~~ 
WHY PAY MORE FOR USED FURNITURE 



Student Union to open
& APPLIANCES? 
CALL BILL: 232-2646; SELLING & BUYING. 
discount-record store 




on cAmPUs 
WITH MAX SHULMAN 
(By tht author of Rallu Round tht Flao. BoyA ... DobitGillis ... rlr.) 
How to Prevent Students 

The chief reason why today's college students are so restless is of course tight pants. 
But other factors also contribute, and one of them, I fear, is bore­dom. All too often, I fear, students find their classes dull beyond en­durance. Let's face it: the modern undergraduate, caught in the grip of history and his zipper, is far too impatient to sit through old-fash­ioned lectures delivered in the old-fashioned way. 
Novelty, excitement, stimulation-that's what it takes to grab a student's attention these days. And wise teachers know it. On cam­puses everywhere they are trying bold new techniques to pique and engross their classes. Take, for example, Ralph Waldo Sigafoos, the distinguished professor of economics at the University of Florida, who now delivers his lectures nude. 
Or let's take E. Pluribus Ewbank, the distinguished professor of English literature at the University of Minnesota where it's too cold to lecture in your buff. Here's what Professor Ewbank does: when he's teaching, for instance, Shelley's immortal To a Skylark, he pauses after each stanza and does 2}1 minutes of bird calls. Believe me, he gets a terrific hand every time, but of course the biggest hand comes at the end of the poem 'Vhen he eats a worm. The kids sometimes ap­plaud till nightfall. 


Another innovation by the same resourceful Professor Ewbank is to make poetry more relevant to his students by taking them to the actual locale of each poem. Last month, for example, while lecturing on Wordsworth's immortal Lines Composed a Few Miles Above Tintern Abbey, he rented a Zeppelin, flew his entire class to England, and moored on the same moor where Wordsworth wrote his immortal lines. Then everyone deblimped and had a jolly good picnic, complete with Morris dancing, three-legged races, pie-eating contests, and of course that without which you'd never call a picnic complete. I refer of course to Miller High Life Beer. 
If there are still some of you haven't tried Miller High Life­you're laughing, but it's possible-let me tell you what you're missing. You're missing flavor, pleasure, refreshment, comfort, satisfaction, felicity, truth, beauty, malt and hops. There is no other beer like Miller. How can there be? Miller's marvelous brewing formula has been a closely guarded secret for generations. In fact, it's known today to only one man in the whole world-Miller's chief brewmaster-and he has been trained to eat himself if ever taken alive. 
So if you haven't tried Miller yet-you're laughing, but it's pos­sible-get a bottle or can right away. The bottles are beautifully made of transparent glass. The cans aren't bad-looking either; they are, however, opaque. 
But I digress. We were talking about the new breed of teacher who doesn't just stand in front of his class and drone. No, sir! He dem­onstrates. He illustrates. He dramatizes. Take, for example, Glebe of U.C.L.A., professor of marine biology. He doesn't just tell the kids about the strange life-forms beneath the sea. Instead he brings a live sponge to class so they can see it. Similarly, Gransmire of North Caro­lina State, professor of textile engineering, brings a live washcloth. 
Then there's Williams of Amherst, professor of library science, who brings a live Dewey Decimal. And of course there's Schumann­Heink of Hardin-Simmons, professor of Indo-European, who brings a live hyphen. And Champert of Utah A & M, professor of Hebrew philology, who brings a nice Jewish girl. 
And so to those who despair of ever winning back our alienated students, I have only this to say: remember that America did not be­come the world's greatest producer of butterfat and milk solids by running away from a fight! Right on! 
* * * 

We, the brewers of Miller High Life Beer and sponsors of this column, have made what seems to us a very sensible arrangement with Max Shul­man. We don't tell him how to write and he doesn't tell us how to brew. 
The execution of plans being developed by the StudendJriion may dissolve the Hammes Cam­pus Store Monopoly. The union proposals include a discount campus store and a record co-op, both of which will hopefully be open next semester. The purpose of the projects, according to Rob Browning, Social Services Commissioner, and Bob Pohl, Student Union Manager, is to sell, at discount prices, the articles needed by all students, thereby making it pos­sible for the students to avoid paying the higher prices asked by the campus bookstore and by local merchants. The lower prices in the Student Union 
Stores would be possible because the Union is not anticipating any profit from sales; the only cost 
added to wholesale prices will be to cover the wages of the store workers. 
Plans for these facilities began 

last summer, when the Associate Director of the Student Union contacted serveral major com­panies, requesting information regarding whole sale prices and policies. In September, a repre­
•sentative from the Colgate­Palmolive Company arrived on campus to confer with Student Union officials and since then, planning has moved forward rapidly. The plans are not yet finalized, and although the Union hopes to have the store in operation when the second semester begins, no absolute opening date has been set. 
The store is to be open four hours a day, in the Fiesta Lounge of LaFortune. Tooth­paste and other toilet articles will be sold, as well as class notebooks. Other merchandise may be added, depending on student response and other factors such as space, manpower, and bookkeeping facilities. 
A second Student Union enterprise, a record co-op, was inspired by the record co-op set up in Lyons Hill. The Student Union co-op will retain the Lyons manager, and serve as a larger-scale version uf lhe Lyons venture. Like the discount store, the record co-op will be located in the Fiesta Lounge, where the records will be displayed for browsing and purchase. Space conflict with the Student Uion Ticket Office may delay the co-op's opening, set for sometime within the next two weeks. 
While the stores will be operated and financed by the Student Union, they will be open to nonstudents as well as students. An expanded merchan­dise line, as well as larger store areas, may be introduced to both stores if the initial venture is successful. 
Tigltt budget proposed by finance Committee 
(Continued from page 1) 
main with the halls. He felt that the Commission showed its sup­port with their allocation but that the hall should bear the brunt to aid "hall cohesiveness." 
Pre Law Society -eorgetown University School of Law -is scheduling interviews for prospec· t ive students on Wednesday, November 11, in Room 205 Busi­ness Building. Sign up for appointment outside Room 101 

University Arts Council is budgeted to receive less than it asked for because of the uncer­tain future of the old-fieldhouse, suggested Weber. 
The requests of the Student Drug Information Center and the Student Inmates organizaton were turned over to the Mardi Gras Charity Chest. 
One of the more controversial allocations involves the Afro­American Society. Their request 
CULTURAL ARTS COMMISSION 
PRESENTS 

THE GRADUATE 
NOV. 5 & 6 7:30 & 10:00 PM 
WASHINGTON HALL 
GENERAL ADMISSION $1.00 

CONTEMPORARY ARTS FESTIVAL 
PRESENTS 
BERGMAN'S 
THROUGH A CLASS DAML Y 
NOV. 4 8:00 & iO:OO PM ENGINEERING AUD. 
ADMISSION -$1.00 each night, CAF patrons free 


WE GO 

was cut to $4300 because, at least partly, according to Weber, many of their activities were "not specified." One of the doubtful requests included "emergency needs." 
On the other hand, MECHA 
was the only organization to be 
suggested to get an inerease over 
their requested budget. The in­
crease was due to the plans of 
making the organization into a 
regional clearinghouse to provide 
in formation to Mexican­
Americans, said Weber. 
The requests of St. Edward's and Stanford Halls were turned down. The Academic Affairs Commission faces a cut of $2000. 
With available funds totalling $54,000, the debt this year will be about $11 ,000, unless more cuts are made by the Senate. This deficit compares favorably with the debt last year of $29,000 and the year before's $50,000. 
At the meeting tonight in La­Fortune Amphitheatre, begin­ning at 7 p.m., the Senate will be given an overview of each group's activities and needs. The senators will be given an oppor­tunity to make their priorities and question a representative from each group. 

TO O'HARE 
IN YOUR POCKET. THAT'S THE DIF­FERENCE BE!WEEN OUR FARE ­$8.00 -AND AIR-FARE ABOUT
EVERY 
GO WITH US AND PUT $1 3.00 BACK 

$21.00. 

Non-stop. No baggage worries. No reservations necessary. No weather hang-ups. Two hours travel
DAY time. 

CALL YOUR TRAVEL AGENT OR 

INDIANA MOTOR BUS • 287•0200 

How to come back by really trying 
by Joe Passiatore back after such an unfavorable Kevin Hardy or Alan Page, the through the same thing." It is in­tack." Marx added that because 
Observer Sportswriter turn of events? People with this disappointment of· being red teresting to note that all of the of the well balanced attack pos­The situation is one any kind of dedication, fortitude. shirted last year, is still fresh in sessed by all of the remaining
above mentioned were All­movie producer could have and self-confidence are simply his memory. He recalls with teams on Notre Dame's sched­
Americans. dreamed up: a young man strives not all that easy to find nowa­startling quickness his fractured ule, the defense would probably
Greg's spirits brighten con­for excellence throughout his days. This is why athletes like right forearm injury of last year, siderably when he talks about revert back to its system of con­athletic career, seems just on the Greg Marx seem to command "It happened on Sunday, Sep­the present and his role as a taining the opposing team's nm­verge of attaining it and then is just a little bit more respect, tember 7, two weeks before last starting member of the defensive ning game rather than employing struck down by adversity. Natur­from their fans, from their year's opening game against line. He answers the question as such tactics as blitzing. ally, the hero in the movie is al­coaches, and perhaps most sig­Northwestern." Greg admits that to whether Notre Dame's de­Finally the subject of an un­ways able to somehow, recover nificantly from their fellow he didn't quite know how to fensive line has abandoned their defeated season and a Number from his unfortunate fate and athletes. react to the whole situation,"l "policy of containment" for a One ranking is brought up and climb the long ladder back to For Greg, who fulfills his had just been trying to make the more aggressive pass rush, by Greg discusses these possibilities the top. But, how many people duties at right defensive tackle team. When I first came here, I saying, "Against Navy we used a by saying, "In order to achieve in real life are capable of coming with every bit of the vigor of a thought it· would be great if I lot of blitzes because we ex­these, we will have to guard a­could just make the team as a pected them to come out gainst being too complacent senior. But when I did pretty throwing. Whereas against most with outselves. Ohio S.ate, for well last fall and because of a teams you try and stop the run example, has not been playing as couple of good breaks was and force the pass; with Navy we well as they are capable. We will scheduled to start as a sophoc tried to stop their passing game just have to persevere. ' But then more, well, it was quite a let and make them run because of after all, who should know more down not to be able to play. ' the weaknessof their running at-about perseverance thlln Greg The behemoth sized (6'5", Marx. 255\bs.) Marx claims to have profited from the experience, however, as he says, "I learned a 
Take Your Ball
lot from not playing last year. It made me realize that there are other things in life besides football, and that I wasn't al­
And Go Home 
ways going to be able to play the 
by Jim Eggert

game. Some subjects in school 
Ohio State Lantern-Sports Editor
which I have previously thought 
Editor's Note: The following article appeared in the OHIO
of as somewhat of a draft. sud­
STATE LANTERN a week ago last Friday. Mr Eggert was
denly became interesting be­
attempting to explain why the Ohio State Buckeyes did not have to 
cause I was able to devote the 
play Notre Dame to prove they were Number One.
time that they required." Marx 
The following week the letter in our Voices from the Crowd
is now a member of Notre Dame's student-athlete honor column appeared in rebuttal to Eggert's opinion in the LANTERN. roll. Eggert then wrote a retraction after being contacted by a person When asked how a person who knows what the real story is. This retraction will be printed in who played football all his life tomorrow's OESER VER. · could withstand the ordeal of Judging from the results of the polls it looks like the big push is 
.., sitting out a season Marx replies, 
on all over the country . 
"I thought about guys like Kevin 
A team becomes the best in the nation anJ everyone wants a piece
Hardy, Pete Duranko, and Nick 
of the action. It's only natural. 
Eddy and how they went 
"Goody, goody ·-Bo beat Woody," is cried from Michigan. Texas yells over national television, "Who the hell is Ohio State." And Ara Parseghian, head coach of Notre Dame, quietly whispers, 
"I'd like to challenge them (Ohio State). The first two statements are to be expected. Whether the fans of 

Voices from the crowd 
Notre Dame. The top sports
would be interesting for Eggert 

Texas, Michigan and other schools realize it or not, they are
columnist in the country, Jim
Editor's Note: This letter to note that America's number 
recognizing the Bucks as the best squad of college football players in 
Murrey of the Los ltlgeles
appeared in the LANTERN in. one football weekly, "The Foot­
the country -and rightly so.
Times, recently wrote that Ohio
rebuttal to Jim Eggert's column ball News", which boasts a staff 
But Mr. Parseghian, sir, what makes you think your team has any
State was the only school in the
which has been re-printed at of sqme of the most knowledge­more of a right to play Ohio State than any other major college
country with 45,000 students,
right with the permission of Mr. able football writers anywhere, power?
190 football players, and a one 
Eggert and the LANTERN. ranks Notre Dame number one, Sure, every one would like to see Ohio State play Notre Dame.
game schedule. 
with Ohio State and Texas a The Bucks have a ~ouple of scores to settle from long ago. The two
I am not saying that the

close second and third in that schools have met only twice and Ohio State has come up on the
Bucks are not number one. How­
order. 

short end both times, 18-13 in 1935 and 7-2 in 1936.
Sports Editor: 
ever the fact remains, that when
Now that Ohio State has But college football is different from neighborhood ball. Two
It was good to see Sports faced with the prospect of play­
finally come out of the stone age schools can't pick up teams· and decide to play on any given
Editor, Jim Eggert, rushing to ing a game that could have
by permitting the Buckeyes to Saturday.
the defense of the Ohio State settled everything once and for
play a I 0 rather than nine game I'm surprised that Parseghian would even think it a possibility to
Athletic Department in his all a~ to what team deserves to
schedule, Parseghian was merely schedule a game for the end of this season. He's been in football for 
article in last Friday's edition of 
be rated number one, Ohio State
trying to give Ohio State a 

a long time and has been a very respected coach, but one has to
the Lantern titled, "Take Your backed down.
chance to put this new policy 

wonder about him when he makes such a ridiculous suggestion. 
Ball and Go Home". We 
Bob Nazar
into effect this year, rather then 

Ohio State Athletic Director Ed Weaver, who makes the schedule
wouldn't want to push our athle­Ohio State U.
waiting until next year. True, it 

upon consultation with Head Coach Woody Hayes and presents it to
tic department into the present 
would probably be an unprece­

the lthletic Council for approval, said "I have no interest in it
too quickly, now would we'! 
dented and unconventional 

whatsoever."
Inconceivable to me is the 
move to add a tenth game for "I understand,'' Weaver continued, "that Woody Hayes said that

UPIPoll
fact that Eggert would support 
the end of this season at this 

he isn't interested in such a post-season game. As fat !IS I'm
such an old fashioned decision. 
time, but it would not be illegal, NEW YORK (UPI) -The concerned, our schedule is· booked through 1982 except for openers 
Here is a man, who as a sports 
nor could it be a losing venture United Press International top that we are working out. I'm not interested at all."
writer, should be interested in 
financially, considering a game ranked major college football Many think this is a shameful attitude, one that shows fear of
the promotion of championship 
of that stature would fill any teams with first place votes in being upset. Those people are wrong.
contests between great athletic 
stadium, and would also draw parentheses. Only 34 of 35 There is probably nothing that Hayes and Weaver would rather see
teams. Instead, he rushes to 
heavily from broadcast rights. coaches participated in the than games with Notre Dame and Texas before a Rose Bowl trip.
Woody Hayes and Ed Weaver 
However a game like this is balloting. But, that is a decision that would have had to have been made ten
with a pat on the back for 
out of the question as Ohio Team Points years ago, when the 1970 schedule was being set. 
turning down a possible post 
State has ended all possibilities There is nothing that can -or at least nothing that should -be
season game with Notre Dame, and at .the same time trys to that it could be played. So Ara, I. Texas (18) 6-0 321 done now. Weaver and Hayes are to be commended for slj.oving the hold Irish coach Ara Parseghian do take your football and go 2. Notre Dame (7) 6-0 309 issue aside, rather than condemned for not even considering the home. However don't think you 3. Ohio St. (7) 6-0 289 challenge.
up to ridicule for making such a suggestion. have to prove anything to any­4. Nebras:;.a (2) 7-0-1 239 A "Championship Bowl" at the end of the season is something to one by playing Ohio State. You 5.Stanford7-1 !51 think about, pitting the two top-ranked teams for the national
Just what implication Eggert was trying to make when he said can be content that Notre Dame 6. Michigan 7-0 144 championship. But that isn't for Hayes or Weaver -or even for plays as it is, 90 to decide. It is up to the National Collegiate Athletic
one has "to wonder" about Par­a rough schedule 7. Air Force 8-0 Parseghian ­
Greg Marx (No. 75 in dark) and friends demonstrate what is meant by the containing defense against the run. 

seghlan, is not clear. If he is attempting to defame Par­seghian, who is one of the best, if not the best college football coach in the country, one has "to wonder" just where Eggert's head is at. 
Eggert also wonders how Par­seghian figures he rates a game with Ohio State. "After all," Eggert writes, "I don't see the Irish in the top two." Perhaps it and never need the excuse that the schedule was completed 10 years earlier to justify playing weak teams, because the slate played by the Irish is always one of the toughest played by any college team in the country. 
In the eyes of the rest of the country it will continue to look like Ohio State is trying to avoid playing really tough games be­cause of the decision not to play 8. Arkansas 6-1 9. Auburn 6-1 I 0. Tennessee 6-I 

II. Arizona St. 6-0 
12. Louisiana St. 5-I 13. Mississippi 5-l 
14. San Diego St. 7-0 I5. Dartmouth 6-0 I6. UCLA 5-3 
17. Tie Alabama 5-3 Tie Houston 3-2 Tie Toledo 8-0 
87 Association and the individual conferences to work something out. 77 Until they do, the national championship will have to be decided 63 during the regular season -AS SCHEDULED. 34 Even if a "College Super Bowl" were to be played this year, Notre 25 Dame wouldn't be included as it stands now. After all, I don't see 11 the Irish in the top two. 
8 So, Mr. Parseghian, take your ball and go home. 7 You know who the Bucks are and they don't have to prove a 2 thing to you. I Take your ball and go home, sir, they don't want to play your I boys now. If you try hard enough, maybe you can get a game up for I 1982 or so. 

Page 8 THJ! OBSE/lfJER. Wednesday, November 4, 1970 

__:___-=-D-e_m_o_s_g_a_in-in-g-ubernaforiaI elections 

Democrats had registered a net 

(Continued from page 1) 
gain of only two seats, but were 

which is generally conceded as expected to add as many as 4 to Smith country, was breaking 11 more. even in northern Illinois and was The Democrats made major leading heavily in Democratic gains in the statehouses all over Chicago. the nation. Democrats beat in­
Overall, the ideology of the cumbent Republicans in Florida, House will not change very Pennsylvania, Arkansas, Ohio much. Early this morning, the Minnesota, Oklahoma, and New 
~·························-·,·,·.·.·.·,·.·,·,·.·.· .....:·...-.·.·································································· 
~t=·=·=-=t(E_E..PSAf(E····t>'I'A~M·ol\H:r··rfH\ft;·s·~·~·u 
I R.K. MUELLER. INC. I 
JEWELERS 
218 S. l\1ichigan St. South Bend Phone: 233-4200 


ATTENTION: OBSERVER STAFF 
Staff Meeting Thursday 4:30 

In the Office 
For the purpose of electing a representative to the editorial board. All those interested should submit their names to Editor Glen Corso by midnight Wednesday. 

Y•-.kforlt­


group of these famous button-down and wide-spread collar, long sleeve shirts priced at exactly one-half price! Choose from a fine selection of stripes and colorings. U;e your Campus Shop account, nothing could be easier. 
CHECK WHAT WE HAVE IN STOCK 
Flair  Slacks  Leather  jackets  Sharp  shoes  Socks  
Slacks  in  all  styles  Suedes,  too  Brawny  belts  Underwear  
Suits  in  all  styles  CPO  jackets  Ties  in  all  widths  Topcoats  
Sportcoats  Shirts,  shirts,  shirts  Name  brand  sweaters  Accessories,  too  

Gloves galore Mufflers & scarfs All-weather 
Read' t!lis and believe it ... Buy your apparel now and 


PAY NEXT IUMMEII 
You pay 1/3 in June, 1/3 in July 1/3 in August with no interest or carrying charges. 

F•.....N••• SHIRTS 
n 





1/2 PRICE 
No doubt about it...we have a select 
Mexico. Cloud. Cloud was the victim of a Former (;overnor George C. 
In Florida, Republican Gover­financial scandal that involved Wallace won an easy return to nor Claude Kirk fell to Reubin members of his ticket. the Alabama Governor's man­Askew,·a Democrat. In Arkansas, Republican in-sion, and wealthy peanut farmer 
In Pennsylvania, Notre Dame cumhent Governor Winthrop Jimmy Carter won easily over graduate Thomas Broderick, a Rockefeller was also a victim of Republican Hal Suit in Georgia. Republican, lost . to Milton the Democratic surge. The GOP In Texas. conservative incum­Shaap. Broderick was at least also lost the statehouse in Min-hent Dqnocralic governor Pres­partly the victim of a 1 ax nesota. where Wendell Anderson ton Smith won re-election in a increase enacted under current beat Douglas Head. tough fight with Paul Eggers. Governor Raymond Shaffer, a In Maryland, where Agnew 
In Oklahoma, favored incum­Republican. fought hard to return his stale to 

bent Republican Governor 
However. in Ohio, Notre the GOP fold, Governor Marvin Dewey Bartlett became a victim Dame graduate John (;illigan. ,, Mandel, a Democrat, won easily of Democratic oilman David 
Democrat, swept to a large 1'\C· over his Republican foe, C. 
IIall. 
tory over Republican John Starcly. 
Budget reduction reviewed by HPC 
A series of plans were dis­of Badin Hall, commented that 
cussed f9r appealing the Hall funding requests should be made 
Presidents' budget, cut at Mon­by the entii;e council, feeling day night's meeting of the Hall 
that the council would have a Presidents' Council. more powerful effect than the Earlier this year, the Univer­
individual hall presidents. Im­sity Finance Committee reduced 
hoff's suggestion was tabled, the HPC's budget from $2000 to however, by Barkett. $500. John Barkett, president of Fritz Hoefer, newly appointed the HPC, said he did not. know executive coordinator of the 
why the cut was made but added HPC, stressed the importance of that a number of other organiza­receiving the additional financial tions' budgets were also reduced. aid. He said that of the $2000 
One solution suggested was to appropriated to the llPC last assess· all hall members a charge year, nearly all of it went for the of .50. However, it was rejected An Toastal weekend, entirely in favor of a motion that the hall run by the HPC. He emphasized presidents go individually to the the difficulty of operating An Student Senate to request more Toastal with a $1500 cut in the money. Buzz Imhoff, president budget. 

Weekend set for parents 
Plans for the upcoming Parents' Weekend have been finalized under the direction of Chairman Greg Caruoso. The weekend schedule includes the Pitt game, a catered dinner, and the Sergio Mendez concert. 
Parent's Weekend, officially known as the Sophomore 
coats Hats 
Parent's Weekend, was crs:ated by former V.P. for Student Af­fairs Rev. (harles McCarragher, to give the Sophomore class another activity of its own. The Senior class has the Senior Fel­low Award and the Senior Bar; the Junior class has Junior Parl!nt's Weekend, while the 
Sophomore class has only the Sophomore Literary Festival in the spring. 
At the present time, 1600 are planning to attend the Saturday night dinner catered by the Thumlerbird Restaurant of Mishawaka at Stepan Center. Father Hesburgh will attend the dinner and address the guests. A concert featuring Sergio Mendez and Brazil '66 will follow at the ACC at 8:30 P.M.· 
Caruso emphasized that much work has gone into the prepara­tion for the weekend and so far it is running smoothly. Over the 
the ND-SMC STUDIO THEATRE 
presents 
THURBER A LA CARTE 
a chamber theatre presentation of works by 
James Thurber NOV. 13 & 14 at 8:30, 15 at 7:30PM Little Theatre -Moreau Hall -SMC Tickets: $1.00 Season Subscribers FREE For information or reservations call 284-4176 
Hair Styling 
for ND men the Continental Wav 
Razor Cutting 3r Style European Layer Shaping for Long Hair 
Have Long Hair & Let Miss Treva & The Baron Be Well Groomed Serve & Pamper You 
306 S1mland Bldg. South Bend, Ind. Student Rates 234-0811 By Appt. 
Also discussed at the meeting Monday night was the possibility of having a combined workshop between the HPC and the hall rectors. 
The idea of a combined meet­ing was originally proposed by Fr. Schuman, rector of Breen­Phillips. After talking to Barkett about the idea, he decided that the two groups would investigate three basic areas: rector-presi­dent relationship, drug problem on campus, and the role of hall government. 
.The Hall presidents were very receptive to Fr. Schuman's pro­posal, and Barkett said that the combined meeting would pro­bably be held on November 16. 
summer, postcards were sent out to parents with information on football, concert and dinner tick­ets. The Ticket Office made 14,000 tickets available for the Notre Dame-Pittsburg game on November 7, and 378 motel rooms were made available. 
The reservation of football tickets is a departure from past policy, because this game is re­served only for parents of stu­dents. Formerly, tickets for all home games were made available to contributing alumni. 
Sergio Mendez and Brazil '66 were chosen for the concert be­
cause  they  are  a  group  that  
"appeal  to  the  old  and  the  
young."  

Sophomore Class President Steve Palucca said he was satis­fied with the plans for the week­end, as was Caruso. For the first year, he said, "I hope it sets a good precedent." 










