

VOL. IV, NO. 103 Serving the Notre Dame anJ Saini Mary's College ('onmnmity TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 1970 
Carswell survives Senate's Ist test 
WASHINGTON (UPI)--Judge 

G. Harrold Carswell survived his first Senate test by a 52 to 44 vote Monday, but still faced a final, crucial vote Wednesday on his nomination to the Supreme Court. 
With a number of senators expected to switch sides in Wed­nesday's vote, President Nixon's second try to fill a vacant court seat still was not assured. 
But opponents of the nomi­

nee were clearly on the defen-

by Steve Lazar 
Student Body President Dave Krashna told the Hall Presidents Council last night that he would like to see the hall community become the focal point of stu­dent government. 
He said that as SBP he will create a new cabinet commission called the Hall Life Commission for the purpose of integrating hall life and student government operations. 
During his brief address Krashna commented on a topic which Council member John Barkett had previously said will be discussed with a sub(;ommit­tee of the Board of Trustees on Thursday afternoon. Krashna claimed that the subject, indivi­duality versus responsibility in the halls, is most vital to the quality of hall life. 
"Too many times, " he said, "the halls have a hotel-motel type of psychology." He ex­plained that this type of apathy retards the growth of any so-cal­led community spirit. He fell the outcome of the action taken in the recent racial incident in Alumni Hall demonstrated that many people are willing to share the responsibility for hall life when the occassion demands it. 
Previous to K rashna's address John Barkett revealed the topics his speakers would present to the Student Affairs Sub­
committe of the Board of 
sive. Both Se.1ate Republican After Monday's vote, more Jv against it. position to Carswell, leaned for­Leader Hugh Scott, who sup­onesided than had been expect­However, to counter the loss ward, said "aye," then sat back,ported Carswell, and Democratic ed only a few days ago, Cars­of those votes, Carswell's sup-drumming his fingers on the armLeader Mike Mansfield, who op­well's backers admitted they had 1porters expected to pick up the of his chair. He coughed ner­posed him, predicted the Senate suffered-as Sen. Edward W. votes of some senators who had vously.would confirm him in Wednes­Brooke, R-Mass., the only favored recommittal. Among About 30 senators kept trackday's showdown. Negro in the Senate put it-"a them were three key Southern of the rollcall at their desks,Scott conceded that he ex­temporary setback." But he said Democrats-]. William Fulbright, recording each vote as it waspected "some small or modest it was on an issue "more proce­Ark., Ralph Yarborough, Tex., announced. The galleries wereslippage" on the final vote but dural than anything else." and Albert E. Gore, Tenn. packed.
he said Carswell's supporters The vote was on a motion by Both Gore and Yarborough would retain their majority. Sen. Birch Bayh, D-fnd., to face tough re-election campaigns 
Carswell, 50, a native of Geor­Mansfield agreed. "There will be send the nomination back to the this fall in states where a vote 

gia and a former U.S. attorney some slippage both ways," he Senate Judiciary Committee-os­against Carswell was unlikely to 
and district court judge until histold rePOrten. tensibly for further study, but help them politically. 

elevation last year to a seat on realistically to bury it. In Monday's vote eight Re­
the 5th Circuit Court of Ap­Some senators \\ho oppose publicans abandoned their presi­

peals, was Nixon's second choice Carswell and who will vote dent and joined 36 Democrats in 
for the vacancy created by the against his confirmation Wednes­voting to recommit the nomina­departure under fire of former day said they would not partici­tion. Thirty three Republicans Justice Abe Fortas. 

pate in such a "subterfuge." and 19 Democrats voted for Among them were Sen. recommittal and four senators Judge Clement F. Haynsworth 
Thomas J. Dodd, D-Conn., Hir­were absent. Jr., a member of the 4th Circuit am Fang, R-Hawaii, and boyish The chamber was still when Court from South Carolina, Nix­looking freshman Robert Pack­the vote started and not until on's first choice, was rejected wood, R-Ore., who had de­the tally clerk reached Pack­55-45 by the Senate Nov. 22 on 
nounced "six or seven" who he wood's name was the outcome charged that he sat in judgement said opposed Carswell but "do no longer in doubt. Packwood, of cases in which he had a small not have the guts" to vote open-financial stake. 
who had strongly indicated oo-

Environment Teach-in planned 
by Greg Pudhorodsky  gram will be Garrett de Bell, the  Two  other intersecting possi­ 
Plans  are  presently  being  editor  of Em1ironmental Hand­ bilities mentioned  were a "sleep­ 
formulated for the Notre Dame ­ book,  who  will be speaking  on  -out" and  a repeat of the "cele­ 
St.  Mary's  National  Ecology/  Tuesday.  In  addition  various  bration  of  life-earth  rebirth"  
Environmental  Teach-in  to  be  seminars  conducted  by faculty  Mass  held  during  the  October  
held on campus from April 19 to  and  students  will  be  going  on  Muratorium.  The  first  point  
25. The  tentative  specifics  of  throughout these three days.  would  consist  of  a  tent-city  
these plans were given in a pam­phlet distributed by Earth­worker Amalgam 22 Organiza­tion. EA-22 was organized with the expressed hope of uniting groups and individuals in the University community in order to discuss environmental problems and ecology from their particular  Note was also given to the Sophomore Literary Festival which will concurrently present Gary Snyder, the contemporary eco-poet. Though the organizers of the teach-in do not expect a formal cancellation of classes by the Administration they do plan to  somewhere on or about the Notre Dame or St. Mary's cam­pus. Concerning the latter, it was stated that anti-war sentiment would be appropriate at this time since, "Vietnam is on the wrong end of the celebration of life aspect of the teach-in." Zero Population Growth has alloted space to EA-22 in the  
Trustees at their meeting. this Thursday afternoon at I: 15. Barkett felt the meeting is neces­sary to update the Subcom­m o ttee members on the living conditions in the halls, especially since he thought some of the members have never been in a hall. Among tbe topics to be pre­sented by a number of students and faculty members are the viability of hall life, the physkal setup of hall organization, the (Continued on page 2)  point of view. Environment Week in an outgrowth of this effort. The wish is that the affairs go beyond the educa­tional aspects which will be made available and focus on both the "technical and psy­chic" facets to derive both a science and a celebration of the earth. This duality of purpose is clearly expressed in the ideas and events tentatively set down in the pamphlet. The major dis­cussions will take place on Tues­day, Wednesday, and Thursday. Highlighting the speaking pro- contact faculty members and ask them to conduct their classes during the period as informi­tive to the role their respective disciplines play in the environ­inental crisis. The organization will make available information and assistance to any faculty member who requests it. The possibility of a sponta­neous "people's holiday" was not ruled out and it was urged that members of the community stop kidding themselves for a day with the importance of their work and join in a celebration and ''strike for the earth."  basement of Walsh Hall, the location of the old Knights of Columbus Hall. Demonstrations by John Abowd The National Vietnam Mora­torium Committee anounced last Friday tentative plans for the nationwide anti-war demonstra­tions to be held April 13-1 5. Current plans include a three day "Peace Fast" and "Tax Payer's Rallies" in over 30 cities on April 15.  

Sam Brown, a national coordi­nator, commented on the com­mittee's plans: "On April 15,

Gov.Kirk blocks desegregation plan 
across the country, people will once again halt 'business asBRADENTON, Fla. (UPI) -terday by U.S. District Judge "Forced busing is illegal in usual' to speak to their country­Gov. Claude Kirk defiantly set Gen Krentzman in Tampa. Florida," Kirk told county men and their President. Theyhimself up as headmaster of would have required massive school bus drivers. "Take your will talk about the broadeningI7,000 Manatee County school cross busing of both black and old routes-not the new ones." 

involvement in Southeast Asia,children yesterday and blocked a white students-some of them There was no trouble at the and about the economic crisis cross busing school desegrega­for destances of 12 miles. schools. Kirk said only nine per brought about by the spendingtion plan he said was "illegal, Krentzman, whose desegrega­cent of the students were for the war and the Pentagon."

arrogant and capricious." tion order was upheld by the absent-"about normal for the The purpose of the fast is to 
U.S. Supreme Court last Friday, Monday after Easter vacation." 
demonstrate moral opposition toKirk suspended the county's 

said he would not let Kirk force Kirk called Krentzman ''arro­
continued US involvement in thefive member school board and 

him into any hasty decisions. gant and capricious" and said 
Vietnam war. The emphasis ''<t~lschool superintendent and took 

"I have this matter very much "he is in defiance of my consti­
be placed on college campusescommand of the school .system 

in mind and there are wheels tutional rights as an individual 
where students are asked to fore­himself at dawn to thwart-at 

turning." the judge said. and as governor. I have never 
go meals during the Peace Fastleast temporarily-a federal 

The White House, meanwhile, seen such capricious conduct in 
and make arrangements withcourt ordered desegregation plan announced "the U.S. govern­my life," Kirk said. 

their food service agencies tothat would have affected 2,700 

ment will cooperate with the Kirk has been fighting federal 
have the money saved donatedstudents and I 07 teachers in I:! 

federal courts in any way to court orders to desegregate 
to the "Peace Fast Fund." Theschools. 

assist in carrying out school Florida schools in mid-year on 
Vietnam Moratorium Committee 

integration plans in Manatee grounds it would create "social
The desegregation plan, claims that this activity has been
County." and economic chaos."
ordered put into effect yes-(Continued on pag<' :!) 

PAGE 2 TIIB OBSERfiEil "TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 1970 
Viet demonstrators to 'fast' 
(Continued from page 1) 

endorsed on over ISO college campuses across the country. 
According to Tom Schoaf, a local organizaer of the Morator­ium Committee, nothing specific has yet been planned for South Bend and Notre Dame. However, a meeting is being planned for later in the week in order to formulate a local schedule. 
The proceeds from the "Peace Fast Fund" will be given to the American Friends Service Com­mittee, The Vietnam Relief Pro­gram, The National Welfare Rights Organization, and The United Farm Workers. The Mor­atorium office notes that "It is important that this money be collected assiduously since the total contributed will be one of 

'Studio 
122N. 233-6157 
the Fast." 

The additional major activities 
of this month's Moratorium are the "Tax Payer's Rallies." Re­gional offices in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chi­cago, Des Moines, Denver, Hous­ton and San Francisco are direct­ing the effort to organize tax payers who are willing to refuse payment. of a portion of their taxes. The committee asks citi­zens to direct the IRS to spend the portion of individual income taxes that is normally spent for the Vietnam War and Defense projects, approximately 30 per cent, on "Hunger, urban renew­al, public housing, health, educa­tion, pollution control•' and 
New Deal 
Last nightl in a lecture deliver­ed in the Memorial Library Aud­itorium, Professor William DeSantis of the Notre Dame History Department chided the inaction of the Roosevelt a9min­istration in the enactment of legislation for Negro Civil Rights. Pointing to discrimina­tion in welfare distribution, job selection and military placement by the NRA, the CCC and other government administrations, DeSantis scored Roosevelt's pos­ition of much talk but "bene­other non-defense areas_ In addi­tion taxpayer's are being asked to withhold ten dollars of their income tax which will be dona­ted to the Moratorium Commit­
tee. 
The regional office in Chi­cago, which is coordinating acti­vities in the Midwest, announced a major rally co-sponsored by the Vietnam Moratorium Com­mittee and The Chicago Peace Council. Speakers will include Senator Charles Goodell, Con­gressman Abner Mika and Dr. George Wiley of the National Welfare Rights Organization. En­tertainment will be provided by the cast of Hair. 
criticized 
"class distinction", interference with voting rights, and job dis­criminations were followed by little legislation because of a fear of loss of Southern support. Deciding not to jeopardize the support of key Congressmen whose votes were needed for the passage of important financial measures, Roosevelt lowered Civil Rights priorities instead, DeSantis said. 
Hall life is topic 
(Continued from page 1) 
Glen Corso 
A Forum 
One thing that Notre Dame lacks is a forum which provides for continuous discussion on the various issues which confront students. 
I hope to establish such a forum on the editorial page of The Observer provoking discussion by relating various points of view, coupled with my own feelings and by publishing letters I receive which comment on the issue. 
I hope to establish discussions on things such as: recruitment, minority admissions, the relevancy of the University, the value of a "Christian Education," and University priorities. Too often these issues are only discussed by both sides during times of crisis, or through structured bodies such as the SLC and the University Forum. 
In order for there to be any real communication about the issues students must be made aware of them, and given the chance to give their views, such an exchange will be beneficial to the community as a whole. With the various viewpoints pitted against one another in print, the community will be able to choose the one it felt was best. 
For this forum to be success'ful I will require cooperation from the students. I will welcome any and all letters commenting on issues raised by this forum, and· will also appreciate any specific in­formation on the subject, if a person happens to be well oneted in 
the matter.. 
Sophomor_es who recently attended the "Meet Your Major Night" 
for the Government Department learned that next year all Govern­
ment courses, with the exception of a newly created and as yet 
unnamed course, will be closed to all non-Government majors. 
This move, according to the Chairman, was due to severe 
overcrowding in most of the government courses and the resultant 
impairment of the education of the majors. Therefore it was decided 
to limit the persons eligible for the various courses. Such action was 
taken only after expansion of the department was considered and 
rejected. The reasons? Several, the primary one being that old 
bugaboo-money. 
By forcing the department to restrict those allowed to take its 
courses, the University in effect is restricting the education of those 
"good things" of hall life, and ~n the Col~ege of Arts and Letters. This rather ominous event brings the current philosophy of hall mto question the concept of a university. community. Other subjects on If a university is a place where a wide variety of subjects are

Summer Session at 
his agenda include · black con­offered, in order that the individual can have the option of obtaining centration, drinking, coeduca­the broadest possible education, then Notre Dame is in the process 
tion, hall staffs, and hall of excluding itself from University status. , government, he said. On the other hand, if a University is defined by the number of 

Stanford University 
JUNE 22-AUGUST 15, 1970 
Last night's meeting was chemistry laboratories, of the student to faculty ratio, or the 

FOR FULL DETAILS, WRITE: 
opened and closed with a num­number of eminent professors, or the number of majors offered, to 

OFFICE'OF THE SUMMER SESSION 
ber of proposals concerning An the amount of money that its alumni contribute, then Notre Dame Tostal. would qualify as a University. 
Some of the possible activities We will be contacting some administrators to get their view on 
include a log paddling contest, a this money question and its relation to the conception of a 
kissing marathon, and a flagpole University. We would like to have student views on this question 
climbing contest in which teams too. 
try to retrieve money tied to the If academic disciplines are to be restricted by economics the top of the pole. students and administration should both be heard. 

ARE FOR 
GOOD 
Congress m u lis
JUNIORS! JUNIORS! 
over postal raises 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The
LATE JUNIORS! 
negotiated postal pay increases went before Congress yesterday while government and union
Make-up Days Available for Your 
officials met to draft legislation implementing the second stage 
of the package. 
Congressional leaders predic­ted quick passage of a 6 per cent pay raise for all federal civilian 
Senior Portrait for the '71 DOME 
THIS WEEK 
and military employees, At AFL-CIO national head­quarters, two Post Office Dep­
PHONE 3818 
artment officials and three postal union presidents began discussing legislation to turn the department into a government corporation and to give postal workers an additional 8 per cent pay raise when the reorganiza­tion goes into effect. 
Nixon's proposal to raise postal rates is intended to finance the second part of the postal settlement worked out last week. 
*~INEST IN STEREQj 
TtAC, ALTh'C. 
lI 
. LANSING, JVC : Co/vr TV sets ' /VC .J

Wright Slacks are for looking good on 
OSS PRODUCTION;

the hanger and on you. The secret? Fit. 
c~n 23~2804 oc-_-_!:

So if you want good fashion in the sea­
Observer is published daily

son's newest colors and fabrics, think 
during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni­

Wright. Wright Slacks . . . try them on 
versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College, Subscriptions may be p'urchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dam'A, Ind., 46556. Second class postage 

for size at any good store. 
UJri ht slacks 
paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 


... 
·MSQAY. APRIL 7, 1970 7HI O.&IZRfiBl PAGE 3 

WASHINGTON (UPI) -The Winton M. Bount entered a second ranking Republican on closed session of the Senate Post the H~use Post Office Office Committee to outline the Com mit tee asserted yesterday "full dimension" of last week's that "it will be a long, cold negotlat..-!d settlem-ent providing winter day" before Congress 5.9 million federal workers with approves President Nixon's a 6 per cent raise retroactive to propsed postal rate increases. Dec. 27. 
Rep. H. R. Gross of Iowa 

issued the bleak forecast shortly The agreement, costing an 
before Postmaster General estimated $2.4 billion, also 
Post pollution petition 
A series of petitions seeking to prevent thermal pollution of Lake Michigan has been posted in the dining halls on .campus. The object of the petition is the nuclear power plant under con­struction at l'allisades, Michigan. 
Queen -Kissing 
The Hall President's Council is announcing its annual gala An Tostal Queen Contest. Girls from any school are cordially invited to participate. So girls, send in your photos, or urge your beau to enter you. The only catch is that the young colleen has to be part Irish. 
This year's An Tostal features such new events as: pig roast, free pig sandwiches, girl's h ask e t h a II, greased flagpole climbing, log paddling, piano stuffing, kissing marathon, and a dance marathon. 
Plus the old standard such as the pig chase, bed race. cow m i I kin tz, tug-of-war, etc. 
Anyone, (including nuns) should send head and shoulders photo along with name and ad­dress to 414 Badin Hall, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 
According to Thomas Morgan, an organizer of the drive on campus, copies of the petition with the signatures will be sent to President Nixon il1 hopes of requiring the plant to install facilities to return used water to the lake at its normal temper­ature. 
If action is not taken immed­iately, Morgan contends, millions of gallons of water will be drawn from the lake in order to cool the nuclear reactors and will be returned to the lake at a temperature 28 degrees warmer. 
This process will theoretically raise the temperature of the whole lake. Untold damage could be done to fish and plant life and the growth of algae and bacteria may be accelerated. The eventual result will be the stag­nation of Lake Michigan, accor­ding to Morgan. 
Morgan hopes that the peti­tions at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will contain as many as 4,000 signatures. 
The petitions were posted last night in the Dining halls at Notre Dame and will be posted later this week in the cafeteria at St. Mary's. 
Sophomore literary 
Festival Council 
presents 
"Taming of the Shrew" Starring Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor 
W ashin~ton Hall Admission $1.00 
7:00 + 9:30 TONITE 
Patrons 75C 

Brown to appear at SLF 
by Bob Meyers 
The Sophomore Literary Fes­tival will present their fourth annual schedule of events next week from April 12th-16th. In­cluded among the authors atten­ding are the controve~sial Claude Brown and Ishmael Reed. 
Claude Brown, 33, is a native of Harlem who attended Howard University and was a playwright for the American Afro-Negro Theatre Guild before writing the autobiographical Manchild in the Promised Land in 1965. 
Few non-fiction books have been able to match the impress­ion that Manchild made upon Americans. Its author was called upon to speak in dozens of locations around the country, to testify before Congressional committees, to write articles for leading magazines, all to re-ex­plain the things he had simply and forth"tightly stated in his book. 
It is a peculiar American idio­syncrasy nbt to believe what is most truthfully told, and even when they believe it, to wonder wide-eyed at the mystery of it 
all. Claude Brown opened their 
eyes by telling them the truth 
about black people in the urban 
ghetto. He told with eloquence 
and honesty that which he had · 
lived. 
In the ·foreword to Man­child, Brown explains how the great influx into the slums of the North was fostered on the pro­mises of a better life, and how disillusionment and anger have been inbred into generation after generation of blacks. 
The world now knows some­thing of these people, partially as a result of Claude Brown; but their misery continues. As he said, " .. they had little hope of deliverance. For where does one run to when he's already in the promised land?'' 
Brown will speak on "The Black Renaissance, Part II" on Monday, April 13 at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
Perhaps tne most versatile of the guests at the I970 Festival is poet, journalist, actor and novel­ist Ishmael Reed of New York City. After an apprenticeship as a college-dropout journalist in Buffalo, N.Y., Reed became edi­

increase postal rates 
provided for an additional 8 per Thompson, R Ga., denounced cent pay hike for postal the plan. employes contingent on "It will be a long, cold winter reorganization of the. Post Office day before Congress will boost 
Department. Union and first class to ten cents, Mr. government officials met Nixon and the union leaders yesterday at AFL-CIO national notwithstanding," Gross said. headquarters to start drafting "First class mail is returning a tor-in-chief of Advance, a week­
ly newspaper published in New­
ark, N.J., and was instrumental 
in the founding of The East 
Village Other. 
He was invited to teach a 
course on Afro-American Litera­
ture at the University of Califor­
nia at Berkeley in 1968, which 
proved to be so successful that 
he was voted one of four of the 
most popular teachers on cam­
pus. 
In a recent interview he said 
"The '70's will belong to black 
people, Indians, cosmic creat­
ures, and anybody else who 
wants to climb aboard." 
The sardonic joy and bitter pain of being young, black and in America (taken separately or collectively) permeates Ishmael Reed's writing. His talent is a monster, controlled only by the class that good writers have. The words are cleanly written, alive with swift cuts at nearly every oppressive or neutral object. The Free-Lance Pallbearers ( 1967) and Yellow Back Radio Broke­Down ( 1969) are the manifesta­tions of Reed's creative ability. 
He calls himself, as well as all Afro-American artists, "interna­tional mind-miners." The new universal identity that the black man is striving to achieve stands out in Reed's writing like a shining black torch in a field of snow. 
Reed will speak on "Contem­porary Problems in Literature" at 8 p.m. on Sunday, April 12 in Washington Hall. 

I egislation implementing this 
profit wfiile second and third 1--------=N:--::--c=-=y=-I""""'C-E--~

"second stage" of the package. class are the big losers." Nixon's proposed postal rate The President also has increases, including raising the 
proposed a 12 per cent increase cost of first class mail from six 
for second class mail, like 

cents to ten cents, is intended to newspapers and magazines, a 67 help finance the cost of the per cent hike for single pieces of boost in wages. 
third class mail and a 5 percentBut Gross, joined by Reps. 

rise for bulk third class, such ast Ken Hechler, D W.Va., Fletcher 
unsolicited advertisements. 

Three lectures deal with law 
George W. Keeton, Professor The two other lectures will be of English law at Notre Dame given tomorrow and Thursday. and adviser to the students in Tomorrow's lecture will be in the London Prog_ram,, will ~ivc the Library Auditorium, but the first lecture in a three-part Thursday's lecture will be in the 
series entitled "Beginning of the Center for Continuing Educa­Common Law," this afternoon tion. All three lectures will be at in the Library Auditorium. 4p.m. 

Craftsmen in Optics® 
SOUTH BEND-THE SHERLAND BUILDING, 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
JluuseufVisiuli tJ)
The House of Vision, Inc. 
Students planning to student teach during First Semestea; 1970 71, must 
report by April 10. St. Mary's College students go to Room 320, 
Madeleva Hall. University of Notre Dame students go to Room 110 
East, Memorial Library. ~-----------'-..1 
CHICAGO 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7!500 • ZIP: 60611 
Please odd soles lox where opplicoblo 

I. TUESDAY, APRIL 7,1970
PAGE 4 
TIIB OJJSEilfiM 
Terry Shields

Spring break round-up 
was cancelled. team continued" its winning ways 
THE IRISH EYE

The stickmen tehn travelled with a decisive 9-0 victory overBaseball to Emmitsburg to take on Mit. George Washington. However, 
St. Mary's College. A determined the Irish were turned back 5-4 in Well, it's that time of year again! It seems that everybody has Despite a team batting average 
"ND 10" withstood a late MSM an extremely close match with something to say about who will be the next World Champion of the of over .300, the Notre Dame onslaught to win 8-6. After lead­the University of Maryland. The National Pastime. baseball squad was able to win 
ing 4-1 at the half the Irish were final match of the trip was Unfortunately baseball has come to such a state where the task of just one of six "spring training" tied by the Mount 5-5 before against Indiana, a perennial Big predicting winners is not much more than guess work. Not only are games last week while participat­they clinched it with three quick Ten powerhouse. The team play­the teams less solid (and consequently less predictable), but there are ing in the Hurricane Tournament 
scores. The outstanding perform­ed fairly well though they drop­more to choose from and this increases the margin of error. hosted by the University of Mia­
er for the Irish was Jerry Kam­ped a 7-2 decision. As the Major Leagues enter their second century of baseball the mi (Fla.). 
mer a junior goalie who received Sophomore Buster Brown fans find that there is not one solid favorite to win at all. The results Phil Krill, Bill Orga, Rich th game ball for his all-around played the number one position of expansion were finally realized last season when the "Amazin' Lucke, and Joe Keenan led the 
hustle and clearing work. On for the Irish and his play was New York Mets" were crowned as World Champs. Notre Dame batsmen but a lack offense junion Kenny Lund exceptional. The highpoint of This was not a case of the Mets improving so much in nine years, of consistent pitching hurt the scored 3 times and Ed Hoban a Brown's performance was a but moreover, baseball as a whole degenerated to the level of the Irish. Frosh hurler Rick Eich, a sophomore added two more to three set victory over Indiana's Mets. True, the Mets did develop a fine young pitching staff but southpaw, was the only hill lead the Irish attack. highly touted Mark Bishop. their starting lineup had few solid ballplayers. 
standout, recording ND's only The squad then took on Brown exhibited extraordinary These picks are-made, then, with a bit of hesitation at each place victory, an 8-1 romp past Col­Georgetown University at powers of concentration in the standings. With regard to the new colmn (Voices from the gate, and yielding just one run in Georgetown in Washington, D.C. throughout the matches and he Crowd) let us hope that everyone might register their complaints ten innings of work. :N D again got off to a quick start has significantly brightened the before the season gets into full swing. There is nothing worse than a 
The Irish began play in the with a 2-0 lead in the first team's 1970 prospects. The Irish baseball fan with 20-20 hindsight! tourney on Monday, March 30, quarter but at the half trailed have a match against Purdue In the American League, Western Division: and dropped both ends of a 6-3. Senior and Captain Tim today at 2:00 p.m. and all are Oakland Athletics-The A'S appear to have enough muscle in the doubleheader, 7-3 and 6-3 to invited to attend. offense with Felipe Alou acquired during the winter and Reggie
McHugh put on a great show in Miami. On Tuesday, the Irish Jackson ready to prove that last year was no fluke. The youth of the
the second half to rally the 
were handed a 9-3 loss by the club should carry it through the stretch drive to the Western Title. 
team. His burning 20 yard shot 
Spartans of Michigan State but, caught the upper left hand corn­Football Minnesota Twins-Harmon Killebrew should have another great year powered by Locke and Keenan, but the loss of Manager Billy Martin could have a damaging effect. 
er of the net to tie the ~core at who belted homers, and the fine 6-6. This was Chicago White Sox-The Sox are gradually building a representative
McHugh's second hurling of Eich, the Irish boun­goal of the half and it came less The 1970 football squad be­ball club. Carlos May and Co. will provide some punch, but not 
gan the long grind in quest of a

ced back to drop Colgate on enough.
than two minutes to go in the 
Wednesday. National Championship yester­Kansas City-This is the strongest of the expansion teams (at least
game. Kenny Lund's third goal
The Irish were close but just day with their first day of spring with respect to divisional strength). They even come close to putting
of the contest in the overtime fell short in the final two tour­period gave the Irish a hard­drills. a major leaguer at each position! ney games, bowing to Michigan fought victory 7-6. The major problems confront­California Angels-They could have a lot of surprises for many of State on Thursday 12-11 in a Sunday on Stepan Center ing Ara Parseghian and his staff their followers, unfortunately they won't all be delightful ones. slugfest spiced by the power field, the Lacrosse Club "B" will be to rebuild the offensive Milwaukee Brewers (?)-There was talk that a group of kayak 
hitting of Phil Krill and Bill team will take on Wayne State. line (only the two guards return builders from Nome, Alaska were bidding for the rights to own the Orga. Krill clouted a pair of The club's next match is with to the interior) and find replace­Brewers. Think of the money they would save on light bills for night three-run homers and Orga add­ments for departing defensive games.
Mid-west power Denison College ed a two-run round tripper. Col-away on April 18th. standouts Bob Olson, Mike In the Eastern Division: McCoy and Larry Schumacher. Baltimore Orioles-0\ erall team balance should m_!ke the O's the lone 
gate avenged their earlier setback The Irish record is 3-0 on the by slipping by the Irish 4-3 on season. Some possible changes may repeater this year. This may be a close race with any one of four take place with regard to switch­
teams having a shot.
Friday. 
ing some key players from last

Assistant Coach John Coun­Boston Red Sox-With a healthy Jim Lonborg the Bosox could be sell commented, "We had good Tennis year to new positions. None of tough to handle. Don't be surprised if the men from Beantown take 
these changes are definite yet 

it all. could have been better. The The Irish tennis team was in but they will be experimented Detroit Tigers-The Denny McLain "thing" poses as a big headache homerun ball hurt us." Washington D.C. for the Easter with during the scrimmages. for Bengal fans. It will probably be a story of too little, too late in 
Ara spent part of the Easter 

hitting but our pitching certainly 
Although the six Florida holidays. The trip was consider­Motown. games count on the season's ed a success as the squad won break traveling over the country Washington Senators-Ted Williams is a great hitting instructor, too ana rumor has it that the Irish
record the Irish launch their 22 two of their four official bad he can't play himself. 
mentor has added some fine in two unofficial matches. The recruits for next year's freshman many inconsistent performers will spell their doom. 
game 'regular season schedule matches; they also looked good New York Yankees-The Yanks are a real darkhorse this season. Too 
this weekend opposing Bowling 
Green University this Friday and Irish started the trip with a class. Cleveland Indians-The Tribe may as well start from scratch and warmup match against Navy. maybe by 1980 they'll have a baseball team that can match the
Saturday at the Falcon's dia­Navy was leading 6 to 4 when New Column Browns for results. 
mond. 

the remaining two matches were In the National League, Western Division: 
In an attempt to move the

called due to darkness. The SanFrancisco Giants-The G-men finally get out of the second place
student body from its constant

I..aero sse match was very unofficial and rut in what may be the last season for one of baseball's immortals,
state of apathy, The Observer

the Irish, who are used to the Willie Mays. 
Sports Department has decided 

The ND Lacrosse Club hoping fast courts of the ACC, had Cincinnati Reds-This is a shaky choice. The Big Red Machine has 
to run a new column in which 

in the next year or two to go some slight difficulties getting lots of power, but with that pitching staff they'll need every bit of
the student may voice his 

varsity, travelled to Towson Md. warm. In their next match, also it.
opinion.

with 26 men anticipating a unofficial, the ND team Atlanta Braves-Henry Aaron may be the best in the game but he
The column will be similar to
trounced Georgetwon 9-0. 

match with the Bowie Lacrosse can't carry the club to a repeat of last year. 
"Sound Off" of the ChicagoClub but an obvious mismatch The first official match was a Tribune. It is entitled "Voices Los Angeles Dodgers-The Dodgers just don't have enough offense with an All-American laden club big 6-3 win over Cornell. The to win it, not without a Sandy Koufax on the staff. 
from the Crowd." Houston Astros-T.C. Treanor says that the Astros will win the World Championship. T.C. Treanor also· says that there are noThe New York Knicks last night defeated the Baltimore Bullets by a score of 127-113 to take the ghosts in Washington Hall. 

best-of-seven series 4 games to 3 in the first round of the NBA Eastern Division playoffs. San Diego Padres-Wait till next year! (repeat for another decade) In the Eastern Division: Pitt~b.urgh Pirates-The Battling Bucs hit .290 as a team, in Spring 
Trammg ball. They should snap out of their slump when the season starts. 

MAJOR LEAGUES 
East Division East Division 
S~. ~ouis Cardinals-The Cards have a potential powder keg bu Richie Allen may blow things sky-high. 

w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB 
New York Mets-They just couldn't pull it off two years in a row!

New York 100 62 .617 
Baltimore 109 53 .673 Chicago Cubs-The Cubbies have the personell but the shock of last Chicago 92 70 .568 8 Detroit 90 72 .556 19 September will remain for a while. . Philadelphia Phillies-1ne rnus a1 c m a slow re-building process and 
Pittsburgh 88 74 .543 12 Boston 87 75 .537 22 
they're a few years away from serious contention.

St. louis 87 75 .537 13 Washington 86 76 .531 23 
Montreal Expos-Even though the Canadians lost out in hockey and Philadelphia 63 99 .389 37 New York 80 81 .497 28% the fans will be ready for a new team to cheer for, Park Jarry will be Montreal 52 110 .321 48 Cleveland 62 99 .385 46Yz mighty quiet in September. 
One might hazard to risk picking any farther but if you're going to get hate mail you might as well go all the way. So, look for the A's of Charlie, 0. to win the AL playoff and the Pirates to outslug

West Division West Division 
the Giants in the Senior Circuit. If all of this comes to pass the Pirates should be able to handle the w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB Westerners in what could be baseball's most exciting but possibly Atlanta 93 69 .574 Minnesota 97 65 .599 lowest quality season . 
San Francisco 90 72 .556 3 Oakland 88 74 .543 9 Cincinnati 89 73 .549 4 California 71 91 .438 26 Los Angeles 84 77 .525 Q Kansas City 69 93 .426 28 Houston 81 81 .500 12 Chicago 68 94 .420 29 San Diego 52 110 .321 41 Seattle 64 98 .395 33 
Monday's Game, Monday's Results: Detroit 5 -Washington 0. Only game Montreal 1 -Cincinnati 5. scheduled. 

