
~v~o~L~-~~~v~·~N~o~.1~0;8~----------------------~S~e~r~v~m~g~th~e~N~o~t~r~e~D~an~1~e~a~n~d~S~a~in~t~A1~a~r~.v~s~C~o~n~cg~c~C~(~Jn~1~n7~u~n~i~0-'_________________________T~~Y.APRIL14. 1970~ 
Power failure hits Appolo 
•
Dangerous return still rema1ns 
shield and would be burned to a
electrical supply and Haise and Prior to re-entry, however, all Lovell -who had been sche­three pilots will have to climb crisp if it attempted to re-enter SPACE CENTER, Houston nigh tmarc for space pilots James 
(UPI)-A major failure knocked A. Lovell, John L. Swigert and 
earth's atmosphere.
duled to make the moon landing back into the command ship, -crawled into the lunar lander since the Aquarius has no heat {Continued on page 3) 
out Apollo 13 's power while it Fred W. Haisc. 
was 205,000 miles from earth Ground controllers, after try­last night, ruling out a moon ing frantically to save the $375 
upon instructions from ground landing and forcing the astro­million mission, finally had no 
control. They then were ordered to start using electricity from
nauts to usc the frail little lunar choice hut to bring them back to the landing craft, Aquarius.
lander as a "lifehoat" to get earth in the most dangerous back to earth. space emergency in four years. Swigert remained in the com­The prohlcm struck like light­The power failure -apparent­
mand ship, since the lander, ening and turned what had been ly an explosion in one of the Aquarius, is designed but for almost a flawless flight into a Apollo 13's three electricity two persons. producing fuel cells -hit the 
The command ship will con­command ship Odyssey shortly 
tinue to feed off the Aquarius
APOllO TIMETABLE 
after I 0 p.m. EST. 
for supplies -mainly oxygen At 9 p.m. tonight there 
Oxygen, which mixes with 
and limited power -during the will be a crucial firing of the 
hydrogen in the cell to make 
long tligh t home. LEM's engines to allow the 
electricity, began leaking and the astronauts to return to earth. 
Apollo 13 command ship quick­Without the lunar module to ly began losing its electrical provide both backup electricaJ
Electrical failure in the com­power. power and the rocket thrust for
mand ship will force this In a matter of minutes, the the ride home, the astronauts
maneuver to be done off the lunar modules batteries. 
48-ton spacecraft exhausted its would have been doomed. Anticipated splashdown is 4 a.m. Friday for an Atlantic recovery -if possible -or I 
No Trustees Parietal statement 
p.m. Friday for a mid-Pacific recovery, which is more 
The SLC met yesterday after­in touch with the Board last their (The Board of Trustees) his first meeting, gave the floor likely. 
noon to hear the Board of night and that he would send writing." to former Student Body Vice­As of I a.m. this morning, 
Trustees' rationale for its de­copies of the rationale to The Faccenda attributed the delay President Fred Dedrick for the oxygen supply in the space 
cision concerning the parietal Observer and members of the to difficulties in transcribing the purpose of introducing a letter craft was 48 lbs. NASA 
hours report submitted by the Board "within hours" after he statement into exact wording. expressing the SLC's dissatisfac­officials say that this supply 
SLC'. But at the time of the had received the statement and He said that there were difficul­tion with the Trustees "un­is "satisfactory". Estimated 
meeting the decision was still had copies made up. ties involved in sending the explained" delays in informing use for the three astronauts is 
unavailable. Faccenda said that he had a various drafts back and forth the SLC of its decision. 6-8 lbs. per day plus LEM 
Special Assistant to the Presi­pretty good idea of what the between members of the Board 
The motion to accept the 
leakage which is slight. 
dent Phillip Faccenda could report would say, but added that to get the desired wording. letter to send to the Trustees only promise that he would be "the idea is to get the flavor of The SLC originally passed the was defeated. Some of the Hall Life proposals, in which the members who voted against the
. 
parietals hour issue was con­letter said that they agreed with
Krashna outlines vartous goals 
tained, on March 9. It was sent the letter in principle, but did to The Board of Trustees who not like the exact wording. The
. . 
were supposed to act on the motion was considered near the issue at its spring meeting and 6 P.M. adjournment time and draw up a rationale to be those who wished to continue to after the excitement of the different media available. presented to the SLC on April 6. consider amending the letter 

planned for each com m tsston 

by Bill Carter 
election. That was only the "With or without a change in Prior to the meeting Faccenda were faced with the fact that a In completing the preliminary stepping stone, now we have to the student government struc­
had contacted as many of the quorum would not be present
planning for the direction of his start putting things in to action." ture the primary focus will be on representatives as possible in after 6. 
offke, Student Body President Krashna de~crihed some of hall life," Krashna said in detail­order to let them know that the Dedrick's letter read in part,Dave Krashna outlined the pro­the b:~sic plans of each commiss­ing some of the duties of the 
decision was not forthcoming at "The purpose of this letter then jected work of each of the ion and indicated the areas Hall Life Commission. The com­
the meeting. is to express our dissatisfaction 
commissions involved in student where poeple were most needed mission's first job will be to 
When time came for the with the continual delays in 
government in an interview Sat­coordinate the activities in the 
presentation of the parietals announcing the Trustees' de­urday. Krashna emphasized the 
halls, set up meetings and act as 
rationale, Student Body Presi­cision on hall life. It is also to necessity of great numbers of a liason between the halls and 
dent Dave Krashna, sitting in on (Continued 011 page 6)people hecomi ng interested in the government. He also said the 
working on each of the commiss­commission will get involved in 
Poetry program held
ions so that as much work as room picks and things of that possible can be accomplished nature in addition to working by Steve Effler started devoting full lime to during the next year. overtime on problems surround­English poets, Stuart Mont­poetry, a physician. He stated 
The extensive amount of ing the race question in the halls. gomery and Lee Harwood, held that he turned to poetry because work that is waiting to he done 
a poetry reading program yester­it "returned him to his physical
The Human Affairs Commiss­

was one of Krashna's main past." In the poem "Circe" he·
day in the Library Auditorium.
ion will have many far-reaching

points. Pre~ented by the Sophomore both concentrates on the sensual
duties touching on the meaning
"There is no question hut that 

Literary Festival, the program surroundings of the island and of
of student life especially in such

each commission has a great areas as drugs, alcohol and birth was part of a series of readings, witchcraft and on the sexual bulk of work to do," Krashna lectures and classroom discuss­love affair between Circe and
conlrol. The commission will

said. "And we've got to get a lot ions by noted modern artists. Odysseus. His imagery is rich
also be actively interested in

of people involved to get that Mr. Montgomery opened the and natural, and wide-angled
helping the various foreign stu­

work done. No two people can session with a reading of his making use of all the senses. He
dent organizations help themsel­

say what is meaningful in stu­most recent major work "Circe." reaches for very few artificial or
ves. Krashna indicated that this

dent hie and that's why the This is a long poem based on the clever expressions.
office will serve as a clearing

commissions exist-to deal with episode in the Odyssey between The other Important and
house for many of the problems

some of the underlying meaning noticeable facet of the readingOdysseus and the Island Sorcer­
arising from the diverse areas of

of things that are important to was the musical effects of hisess.
student interest.

student life." Dan Hyde poetry. According to Montgom­
Mr. Harwood then read six"It was evident from the to get involved. The Off-Campus Office will ery, his "first language was a
shorter poems..:ledion that many people were He said the fundion of the be responsible for publishing a Zulu based" one. He is acutely
The alternation of roles was 

interested in the attitude toward Public Relations Commission brochure dealing with the parti­conscious of rhythm and lone.
repeated again with both poetschanging things, toward making will be to publish exactly what cular problems of off-campus Influenced by a culture where
reading more recent poems at 
the changes in atmosphere that the student government is doing, students. The commission will "music was the Chant," his
least a few of which had 
have to he made. What is needed to gather student opinion, and also direct its interests toward reading is melodic, almost a true
American settings. As the poets
is an investigation of the struc­to keep the student leaders in bringing the off-campus students chan tin g. He is extremely con­
have complementary contrastingtures that subtly or overtly front of the student body so more actively into the activities scious of such sound effects as
styles the effects of the alterna­
dictate people's lives. What we're that easy con tact is always on campus. alliteration and internal rhyme.
tion was very interesting.hoping is that the enthusiasm possible. The commission will The Research and Develop­The best statement of the
Mr. Montgomery was born in 

and interest will not dwindle include exposure on all the {Continued on page 3) Rhodesia and was, until he (Continued on page 2) 


PAGE~2----------------------------------------~~~~~~().~~~~~~~--~----------------------~---T~U~E=S~D~AY~·~A_P~RI~L~1~4,~1~97~0-­
e •
Pohl fills three po_s1t1ons 
three organizations present is to computerize the entire
by John Papa 
films, he felt their joining might system. He claimed the transfer 
Bob Pohl, Student Union bring some coherence to the wouldn't be very difficult or Director, continued to fill im­showings. He also felt that it expensive. He cited, "It would portant positions on his staff would be easier to combine their reduce bookwork and permit us yesterday. He appointed Jim printing needs through the to publish a full financial report Metzger, Brian Nagle and Bill Union.· every other week." He also 
McGrath to the Student Union Regarding the procedure with desires to budget the union offices of Academic which his department will select instead of the individual com­Commissioner, Comptroller and and procure speakers Metzger missions. Executive Secretary, respec­said, "We will start out with as McGrath explained his duties tively. wide a range of names as as executive .secretary as keeping 
Last year's Sophomore Liter­possible." He cautioned that a record of all SU matters, ary Festival chairman, Metzger practicality plays a large part in maintenance of the physical served on the Academic Com­whether a certain speaker would plant (business machines, tele­mission the past two years. This be able to visit the campus. He phones, etc.) and taking care of 


past year he was the assistant felt that the talks this year public relations, a post erased by 

Brian Nagle Bill McGrath 
commissioner in charge of fi­offered an excellent, wide vari­
(Continued on page 6} 
nance. He is also involved with ety of people and ideas. He the Urban Studies program. He expressed much interest in the praised this year's academic programs that had many 




'Stress rhythm and tone
commiSSIOn "because of the speakers, but dealt with certain people of high quality they specific topics. He gave the (Continued from page 1} . : · h' f
Bemg acutely aware of the While he wntes IS poems obrought in. They also ran the Camus and Environmental Con­
importance of his poetry of 
relationship between audience strong emotion he tries toassemblies well and did well ferences as examples. He ex­
sound and music is his own; "a 
and poet he chooses to write in remain aware of the fact that thefin an cial1y." plained that a well-known per­
poem is not a poem if not read." 
fragments. He says that "a poem listener is not sharing the exactSpeculliting into the year sonality isn't necessary to pre-
Mr. Harwood is also very

"~~+ ,. nr.-.,.,...,l ........ ............... ........ ~~·d be is not a transcription, it is an feeling. He capitalizes on the 
ahea~ ~etzge~ hope_d for a clci~io conscious of his role as a reader
the Interior and Other 
object, in reality a shared ob-knowledge that the listener 
u.""""''-'.t"LaUlC.

associatiOn with the SMC Aca­.,.,.....,_"'J 
and how it ties in with the way ject." Wishing to avoid the should at least be aware of ademic Commission. On the pos­As Comptroller, Nagle will be he looks at his poetry. He autocratic form of just laying similar feeling. His emotion issibility of a merger he said, "I in charge of the financial work­concentrates on motion and out the message in a complete conceived of as the "middlewould like to say to the people ings of the Student Union. A change. He is often seen walking form, he leaves the connectives ground" of the picture but he over there, 'Let's combine our member of the Social commis­away from the podium, using to the imagination of the audi-tries to induce the audience to two organizations', and then sion as assistant business expansive gestures and changing ence. For him a poem "is as fill in a "personal foregroundstart out by asking 'Why not?'". manager and also an accounting roles and voices as the reader. much yours as it is mine." and background" that will makeHe also expressed the wish to major, Pohl said Nagle has a his poems more individuallyexplore the feasibility of com­good financial mind. Nagle, meaningful.
bining the Literary Arts Festival, pointing to the success of the 
Grc~nd Prix nominations open 
One of his techniques which isthe Contemporary Arts Festival financial structure of the present Student Center or by mailing especially noticeable is that ofand Cinema '70 under the union, hoped to emulate it to a by Joe Lee them to G.P. Queen contest, addressing the audience. HeAcademic Commission. Since all great degree. His major objective 

Mike Giannone, chairman of Student Union Social Commis­characterized one of his poems the Grand Prix race sponsored sion, Box 427, Notre Dame. All as "literary gossip" and duringNuclear Energy speech by the Student Union Social pictures submitted will be re­the poem he states that this Commission announced today turned, provided a self-addressed poem is rather silly. In anto be given tonight that nominations are now being envelope is included. understated way he invited, here accepted for this year's Grand Fourteen halls and clubs will and in other places, some very wide organization encouraging Prix Queen. The Queen will be vie for their starting positions gentle and sympathetic laughter.
Dr. Alvin M. Weinberg, direc­scientific research in all fields. crowned before the beginning of during the Time Trials which His poetry seems to have the tor of Oak Ridge National Dr. Cornelius P. Browne, profes­the race and she and her date will be held the afternoon of quality of understatement orLaboratory, will deliver the first sor of physics and president of will participate in the pre-race Tuesday, April 27th. The Grand tentativeness which had thePhilip S. Moore Lecture on the chapter, and Dr. Ernest L. activities as well as being guests Prix Race will start at I: 00 p.m. audience in great rapport.

"Nuclear Energy and the Envi­Eliel, professor of chemistry and of the Social Commission for the Saturday, May 2nd in the Harwood sees his vocation asronment," at 8 p.m. tonight in immediate past president, es­concert by Sly & the Family parking lot of the Athletic and a logical role for him to play.
the University of Notre Dame's plained that the theme of the Stone. The Queen will also Convocation Center. Individual Likening the twentieth centuryMemorial Library Auditorium. 
new lecture series will be the receive a bid to the Tri-Ciass and team prizes will be awarded society to a village, he said "asThe new lecture series in relationship of science to public Prom and accomodations will be to the winners in a ceremony others must fulfill their func­honor of the late Rev. Philip S. 
affairs. furnished by the Social Com­during the concert by Sly & the tions, he is called to the job ofMoore, C.S.C., was instituted by Weinberg received the Atoms mission if she is from an out of Family Stone on Saturday night. storyteller."
the Notre Dame Chapter of the for Peace award in 1960, and town school.
Society of-s~~ma Xi, a nation-was a member of the President's Nominations should include Science Advisory Committee the name of the student submit­

Extend SMC deadline 
from 1960-62. He is noted for ting the entry as well as his year, his longstanding interest in social address, phone number, and the The Officers of the SMC on each of which one student problems and for urging scienti girl's name, class, address, and Student Government have ex­sits. Applications should, be ts to enter the arena of public school. While any size photo-tended the deadline for the submitted to Jean Gorman, box concern. graph will be considered, black Judicial Board applicants. There 212, by Wednesday, April fif­
Father Moore was a vice and white photos 5 x 7 or larger have been some applicants for teenth. president for academic affairs are preferred. All entries must be the two Junior and one Sopho­Nominations for the Student and dean of the graduate school received by the Social Commis-more but no Juniors have Services Organization and its at Notre Dame. The lecture sion before midnight, Tuesday, appli~d for the three Senior and commissions will be opening series honoring him will be April 21st. Entries may be one Senior Chairman positions. sometime later this week. These introduced with remarks by Dr. submitted by bringing them to Ann Marie Tracey, the newly­include the Director, Comp­Milton Burton, director of the the Social Commission office on elected president of the student troller, and Secretary of the Radiation Laboratory. the fourth floor of LaFortune government said that "The res­SSO, and ' the Academic 
~---~~~::=::_..::::~~~:.:....:-----.:::.::...._:.::.::.:.:::..:.__.:.:..;:;.:::.:__;:;~=:....::.:...:..::..:..:.:~. ponse in applications is a lot 
Activities Chairman, Student 

more gratifying now than at Development Commissioner,

GRAD STUDENTS 
first, but we still do not have Social Commissioner, and a enough students for all the Health Commissioner. Also
• POST DoCs 
positions available." Also, ap-needed are girls for positions of plicants are needed for the dress 
Community Relations and board and the Appellate Board 
Public Relations. 

The Catholic Alumni Club Welcomes 
Ticket Sales 
all Single, Catholic College Graduates "Wooden Ships" Get Acquainted at the Annual CAC Wine THE 1970 SENIOR BALL
and Cheese Tasting Party on April 18 
SALES: TONIGHT APRIL 14 20 LAFORTUNE 7:30-9:30 
For Information Contact: John Hansen 
BID PRICE: $12 274 Chemistry Hall Phone 233-0769 
MOTEL ACCOMODATIONS AVAILABLE FORMAL 
CHICAGO 

715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500· ZIP: 60611 
Please add sales tax where applicable 


TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 1970___ THE OBSERV£R 
-----------------~PAGE3 
•

Presidents listen to var1ous proposals 
Phil Defliese addressing yesterday's HPC meeting. 
by Floyd Kezele 
Last night's meeting of the llall President's Council was highlighted by the presence of various guests presenting propo­sals to the group. Among these were John Kwiden; Eric Anders, Assistant Hall Life Commis­sioner; Don Mooney, Student c;ovcrnment Public Relations Director working with Hall Life Commission; and Fr. Whelan, Director of Student Housing. 
John Kwiden spoke first on the Drug Rehabilitation Center in South Bent!. lie revealed that although the center is sponsored by the Sunnyside Church, it still needed financial as well as other 


Ombudsman 

(Continued fro..m page 1) 
men t Committee will concen­trate on working on the coedu­cation issue along with finishing a questionnaire for the admiss­
ions office and looking into the feasibility of a new student center. The commission has a mass of technical work that Krashna said calls for as much help as possible. 
Krashna said the Academic Affairs Commission will contin­ue the work begun by the Administration in addition to a ttemptings to make its efforts more extensive particularly in the areas of pass-fail courses, work-stuJy programs, and in­creased counseling facilities. 
The Community Relations Commission will work with volunteer service organizations and get involved in such topics as the Model Cities Program and 
./Receives grant 
Mrs. Harvey A. Bender, 15 I 2 Belmont Ave., South Bend, has received a 1970-71 Kent fellow­ship for graduate study in En­glish at the University of Notre Dame. 
Mrs. Bender, wife of a profes­sor of biology at Notre Dame, is a 1956 honors graduate of the School of Journalism at North­western University, Evanston, Ill. She began graduate study in the Notn: Dame department of English in 1968 as a University fellow and received a National Defense Education Act fellow­ship for the academic year 
1969-70. She was an instructor in l~nglish at Indiana University­South Bend from 1966 to 1968 and is a member of Theta Sigma Phi, the League of Women Voters, and the Ladies of Notre Dame. 
The Kent fellowships are ad­Ill in is tercd hy the Danfor.lh Foundation, St. Louis, Mo. 
Graduating Class, Note! House for Rent. June Week 

Two story, mod. log cahin in the woods, 5 mi. north Notre Dame, 3 hedrooms, 2 hath, kitchen, lv. rm., den. /g. (ire·plan•, wood. Sleeps I0. JJring the whole family. Rented only to parents. $50 per day, minimum 3 days. 
Write:  Resident,  51187  
l.aurel  Road,  South Hend,  
Indiana 46637.  

The Observer Is published daily during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni· versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from the Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
kinds of help. Kwicien also stated that plans are now under way to holt! a tea~.:h-in similar to the Environmental Teach-in, Juring the seconJ week in May. Possibilities for this range from speeches by former drug users, to programs investiga ling the purity of drugs in the area, and he asked for anyone with further ideas to contact him at 210 Morrissey. 
Eric Anders and Don Mooney of the Hall Life Commission addressed the ~.:oun~.:il next on the problems of hall student government, and the role of their commission. They stated that a seminar on racism may be held in the future and that they 

to continue 
Urban Studies in general. Krash­na said students on the commiss­ion will also have .the opportun­ity to be writers on reform. 
An office of Ombudsman is definitely being planned by the government leaders even in the event that the proposed Univer­sity Omhudsman plan takes effect soon. Krashna said Dan llyde and his aides will operate the same services as were avail­a hie last year. He indicated that any student who has a complaint or problem of any sort can ~:all 7638 and receive help from the office. 
I\: rash na plans. on having a judicial coordinator to head the Judicial Commission which will become involved -with the legal aspects of students' lives. He said this commission offers many students the opportunity to get interested in the University Court and the Campus Judicial Board. He also emphasized the necessity of students working on their own hall boards. 
The Students Against Racism will set up a committee of 5 to 6 5tudcnts to act as a committee to organize seminar sessions on campus and work with other aspects of the racism problem. 
Krdshna promised that the Recruitment Action Program would have many more func­tions than mere recruitment. It is also scheduled to work more deeply with students of minority groups other than blacks and will attempt to attract more 
American  Indians,  Mexican  
Americans  and  other  minority  
groups.  
K rashna  said the commission  

would need people to work at home over holidays and during the summer as well as working in the recruitment program on cam·· pus. 
ICE CAPAD£S 
Wed. April15 
to 

Sun. April19 
Student Discount 
For Thur. 8 pm Sat. 2 pm ~un. 6 pm 
Only $1.25 tix Remain (Reg. $2.50) 
For full price shows some $4.50 and $2.50 tix remain 
were in teres ted in establishing liaison men with the halls. Don Mooney expressed an interest in better hall government and said that, "Dave Krashna wants to work with the halls, but just doesn't know where to begin." 
Room selections were dis­cussed when Fr. Whelan asked for the possible vacancies that would oc~.:ur in each hall. He said that the rectors had given him the impression that there would be I00 vacancies, but that from the numbers supplied to him by 
The evening will include
complete spaghetti dinner anda 1l-jilliilli~·~~-~~--~~----~~~~~~-~~-~~~~~~a;j~ 
the ~.:oun~.:il, there would be, at most, 55. If this is indeed the case, Whelan stated that another room pick would have to be scheduled with a possible univer­sity cut off average for the on campus housing. 
The council then talked brief­ly about the coming constitu­tional revJsJon hearings, An Toastel Weekend, the pending Trustee action on parietals and 
the  Hall  Presidents  Council's  
response  to  the  trustees  on  
parietals.  


~ 'i':c·•.: •·• 
•' 


Nutting dinner held Wed. 
On Wednesday, April I 5 at 6:15P.M. members of the Notre Dame community will have the opportunity to dine with Asso­ciate Professor Willis Nutting, The Nutting for President Head­quarters announced yesterday. 
the chance to listen and Jearn with Dr. Nutting.. Dress will be 
casual,  and  all  are  cordially  
invited  to  take  part  in  the  
festivities.  

Co-ordinator for the dinner, Ray Carlson, remarked that the dinner will be as long or as short as the guests wish to make it. 
The fun-raising dinner will be held at Shag's Place at 119 Mill Court .in South Bend, and donations will be $1.75. Carlson noted that tickets must be purchased before tonight by calling 232-7232, or by stopping. by the Nutting display in the Library lobby. 
* 111\LS-1 I~ STI Rl ()*TI"AC. ALTIT 
L.A\ISI~(;, .IVC 
Co/urTI Set\·.!!'(' 
ZOSS PRODUCTION 
Call 232-2804 


r-----------------------------------------1 
. Hair Styling 
for N.D. Men the Continental Wa}' 
Razor Cutting & Style · European Layer Shapingfor Long Hair Have Long Hair & Let Miss Treva & The Baron Be Well ()roomed serve & pamper you. 
Continental Hair Styling
306 S.tlerland Ui,~::. South Bend lnd .·-· 
STUDENT RATES

234 081 1 
By Appt. 
~Natural 
Wonder' 
launches 
the new 
•

wave In eyewear! 
Everything you need for hig, hig eyes. Clearer, purer, creamier colors that turn on with water-and don't turn olf. for a smooth, silky finish that lasts for hours. Natural Wonder~ LidShadO\vs'and~ Lid Liners: There's never heen anything Iike them lw­tore. Everything'shypo-allergenic, fragrance­free, and 100% dermatologist-tested. 
Natural Wonder Eye Makeup by Revlon 
A\'ailahlc at: 

St. Mary's College Bookstore 
Concerning the constitutional revision, John Barkett, Morrissey Hall President stated that, "Get­ting the Student Forum would probably be more trouble than its worth, and we should pro­bably have both the Student Senate and the Student ForuJn." 
The meeting was ended by nominating Tim Mahoney and Fritz Hoffer for. Executive Co­
ordinator for the council the election to he held week.  with next  
APOLLO,LEM  

FLYING TOGETHER 
(Continued from page 1) 
Apollo 13 had been flying almost flawlessly up to the point it lost its electrical power. 
The space pilots, who had just finished checking out the lunar lander and beaming a television show back to earth, reported hearing a loud "bang." 
The command ship "Odys­sey" and the landing craft "Aquarius" arc now flying locked together and the astro­nauts will use their landing craft's descent engine to change their course and aim them back toward earth. 

PAGE 4 
'E OBSERfi!R 

THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. De SAPIO, Publisher 
DAVID C. BACH, Editor 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Editorial: 

The Trustees' delay 
The Trustees' long delay in announcing their decision on the SLC's parietal hours resolution is intolerable and symptomatic of the way administrators often deal with student concerns. 
The Trustees promised to announce their pane tal hour decision yesterday. The question of extending visitation privileges is certainly important enough in the student mind that the Trustees should have been able to announce their decision much sooner. 
If the Board wants action it can command it. 
If they continue to delay action on such important matters, student-administration tensions are certain to heighten. TI1eir inability to act swiftly shows their basic misunderstanding of campus feeling. That feeling is very much in favor of hall autonomy. 
Fred Dedrick and Professor John Houck both said at the SLC meeting yesterday that they had persuaded certain halls to delay passing individual formulations on parietal hours. The halls deferred to the propriety of having their sanction come through the SLC. They thought that this might be the issue which showed that the SLC can take a problem, research it thoroughly, find the sentiment on campus and take steps to implement the program. · 
The Trustees' delay can only heighten disenchantment with the SLC. Much of the slowness in moving is because of the lack of effort by the SLC members themselves. But, often, it is because of the lack of cooperation and coordination on the part of administrators and, as in the parietals case, the delay encountered in having other administrative bodies deal with the issue. 
The SLC must come to realize that problems of deep student concern must be dealt with immediately. The Council, too, must arrange its proceedings to insure swift action on the issues it faces. 
Letters to the Editor===== 
Editor:  then was expressly informed by  staff by writing letters for the  
Pat McDonough, in his letter  Professor McCarthy that the  President.) You would think  
to the editor, was slightly upset  directors of the Non-violent  that sometime in junior high Mr.  
at my assertion that persons  Program had explicitly decided  Nixon would have had to learn  
invited to speak at Notre Dame  that the program this year would  about the constitution and  
on public issues are dispropor­ not be balanced. Professor  would have read that the Presi­ 
tionately representative of a  McCarthy kindly offered to  dent "shall nominate, and by  
leftward point of view. Mr.  allow me to speak to his seminar  and with the advice and consent  
McDonough is of the opinion  but he said that the Non-violent  of the Senate, shall appoint. ..  
that I spoke without getting the  Program would definitely not be  judges of the Supreme Court."  
facts.  balanced this year. He said the  Maybe he didn't do his home­ 
Four things should be said.  directors believed that an un­ work.  
First, my remarks were directed  balanced program would gain  The President said the Cars­ 
essentially at the Program for  more attention. This refusal to  well opponents were playing  
the Study and Practice of the  balance the program is, in my  politics. Some of them were, to  
Non-Violent Resolution of  opinion, indefensible.  be sure. But this charge, in light  
Human Conflict. The Student  Fourth, the total impact of  of his (unsuccessful) intimida­ 
Union Academic Commission  the overall speakers' programs at  tion of the Senators who honest­ 
was mentioned only because_the  Notre Dame has been extremely  ly felt Carswell unqualified, is a  
SUAC was a co-sponsor of  unbalanced. It should be the  joke. And if the President wants  
William Kuntsler's address.  concern of all organizations  to have a SouE1er:1.er on the  
Second, it was, in my opinion,  concerned to correct this situa­ C~urt (who's playing politics?),  
the responsibility of both the  tion.  well that's fine. But, Mr. Presi­ 
Non-violent Program and the  Sincerely,  dent, entrusting the choosing to  
SUAC to arrange a speaker to  Charles E. Rice  Attorney General Mitchell prac­ 
counter-balane Mr. Kuntsler be­ Professor of Law  tically disqualifies any of the  
fore agreeing to have him speak  truly outstanding Southern  
here. It was not sufficient for  judges.  
those two groups to present Mr.  Editor:  It may be a lot to ask, but a  
Kuntsler without having already  The U.S. Senate has made me  President has the moral responsi­ 
arranged for a speaker on the  a happy Southerner by its vote  bility to put the welfare of the  
other side. It was for this reason  on the Carswell nomination.  country ahead of the next  
that the SUAC was mentioned in  President Nixon's letter telling  election. Yale Law Professor  
my letter.  the Senate to be good and show  Fred Rodell said "the way to get  
Third, I protested only after I  respect for the constitution by  better Supreme Court Justices is  
had written to Professor Charles  doing what he wanted was  to elect better Presidents." How  
McCarthy, head of the Non-vio­ ridiculous. (Maybe the Vice  true.  
lent Program, provided hi_m witl!_  President is returning the speech  David Barrett  
.1 list -of possible speakers and  writing favors of the President's  21 5 Dillon  

Executive Editor: Dave Layout Design: Mary Chris
Features Editor: T.C. Treanor Stauffer Morrison
Photography Editor: Mike 
Campus Editor: Glen Corso Headlines: Jim Graif

MurphyNew Editor: Steve Hoffman Layout: Ann Conway, Ann
Business Manager: Bruce Rieck 
Associate Editors: Cliff Win-Therese Darin, Patty "Birthday
Advertising Manager: Bruce 
trode, Ann Conway, Jeanne Girl" Lispcomb, Jeanne Sweeney
Barker Sweeney Night Controller: Harold
Night Editor: Jim Graif 
Sports Editor: Terry Shields Taegel 

It miaht look like a beast, but it's really only hum•. 

Campus Opinion 
Edited by Glen Corso 

l came across a fascinating piece of literature the other day, and 
since drug use on campus has noticeably expanded, I thought it was 
rather pertinent. 
The document is a paper prepared by the Fort Lauderdale police 
which discusses the characteristics, and effects of LSD. It is a rather 
chilling report, since it discusses the drug and its effects in a terse 
matter of fact way, complete with tips on how to spot a person who 
is "Tripping". 
"LSD at the present time is one of the most popular and widely 
known and talked about hallucinogenic drugs being illegally 
produced. LSD is an odorless, colorless and tasteless drug. It can be 
eaten, inhaled or injected and the amount of LSD needed to go on a 
so-called "trip" could be one-300 thousands of an ounce. Effects of 
taking this type of drug are totally unpredictable and vary widely 
from person to person... 
"Actions of the user while under the influence of the drug represent, in many instances an enforcement problem in terms of homicides, suicides and accidents on the street and in the home. Unfortunately, people who are most attracted to the abuse of the hallucinogenic drugs and LSD are those who are most likely to be harmed by it. 
" ...On a trip obtained through the use of LSD or other hallucinogenic drugs, there is found a heightening of sensitivity to colors. They become vivid and flowing. New colors can be born that are difficult to describe. The picture swirls and bursts into geometric designs like the old kaleidoscope. Colors are tasted, objects seem to pulsate and breathe, flowers can be seen opening and closing. The user is likely to spend hours in contemplation of the beauty found in a speck of dirt. Time seems to stand still. 
"Cenerally, the drug does not appear to stimulate or diminish 
sexual desire. However, once the idea of sex is suggested all 
inhibitions are lifted. All experiences with LSD are not pleasurable. 
There have been cases where young people found under the 
influence of this drug have been discovered walking on all fours, 
eating grass and bark off the trees... 
"Habitual or chronic abusers of the LSD drug frequently paint their fingernails with a solution of the drug or rub some in their hair so that if they are arrested, they are able to continue their abuse while in jail. Suppliers of the drug may dampen the sealing edge of an envelope so that when they send a letter to a friend they are also sending a small supply of LSD, enough for 3 or 4 trips possibly. 
"Common Sense Advice: 
I) Suspect the person who speaks of "seeing" sounds, "tasting" colors, etc. 
2) Look for someone who has a dilation of the pupil and dark glasses, even at night. 
3) Restlessness and an inability to sleep. 
4) Panic at the slightest little thing. 
5) Anti-social behavior. 
6) An impulse toward violence or self-destruction. 
7) Users experience distortion and intensification of sensory perception with lessened ability to discriminate between fact and fancy." 
With the reported rise of LSD consumption in the United States, accompanied by a rising number of people either committing suicide, or being hospitalized in insane asylums due to the effects of the drug it is becoming painfully obvious that present enforcement methods are woefully inadequate. 
The Federal Narcotics Bureau must be expanded and staffed with trained specialists in order to curb the supply of the drug, and to alert the public fully to its dangers. Penalities for peddlers must be increased, but more importantly, those who manufacture, and finance the manufacture of the drug must be vigorously pursued. Recent FBI findings show that most of the mass production of LSD is done by the Mafia. If the drug problem in America is ever to be effectively combatted, La Cosa Nostra must be driven out of the business. 
TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 1970 THE OBSERIIER. ..PAGE 5 
•

Meadowlark IS a Man 
by Sue Bury Meadowbrk Lemon told me he is a black man. I couldn't hleieve him. Meadowlark Lemon told me he is an actor. I couldn't believe him. Meadowlark Lemon also told me he is a human being. I believe him. The Harlem Globetrotters arrived at the Athletil: and Convocation Center at 5:30. Dave Stauffer and I met the bus at gate 6A and, through pursuit of (;Jobclrotter center David Lattin, were introduced to Meadowlark Lemon. I expected a short impersonal interview in the hustle of pre-game preparations-a firing of qucstions at a professional funny-man who would give us funny-man answers. What I got was a human being. Meadowlark agreed to answer our questions. When he asked about getting something to eat, we told him that the most wnvenient place was the Huddle. We hesitated for a moment, inwardly questioning our proper role as inter­viewers. Mentally concluding that we weren't proper interviewers in the first place, we offered to take him. It was then that the celebrity interview stopped. 1 After a long-talking walk to LaFor­tune, he had his dinner (a cheeseburger with lettuce and tomato, a chili dog, french froes, and two large Cokes) and bought us Cokes. lie told us that some of the Globe­trotters take correspondence courses, but that the things he wan ted to learn were nut available in that form. Dave had pointed out that the Golden Dome 
represented all that was wrong with Notre 
Dame, particularly the weather. 
Meadowlark was incredulous: "You're 
not supposed to be coming here for 
weather-you come here to learn." But he 
thought he was beyond the age at which 
he could spend four years in colle~e. 
Meadowlark said he had always wanted to he a Globetrotter. Dave asked him about signing with them. "I was scouted as a youngster." Had he been offered a contrad with the NBA? "Are you kidding? I'm black. Fourteen years ago there were three black men in the NBA." 
We aksed if the opponents ever win. 
New city 

council candidate 
SAUSALITO, Calif. (UPI) -The retired madam of San Francisco's best known bordello is running for city council-with the support of local women's dubs. 
Sa Jly Stan ford, Ia men ting "a general breakdown in morals," is nailing up signs boosting her candidacy in Tuesday's eh:ction in this upper middle class and bohemian suherb on the edge of San Francisco Bay. 
"You wouldn't believe the things that go on in this town," says Sally as she, relaxes with her pet parrot in an antique dentist chair at barside in her expensive restaurant. 
"I'm going to expose the financial mismanagement. I'm a taxpayer and a large one." 
During the 1940's, Sally operated a plush house of prostitution and call girl system in San Francisco favored by delegates to the founding of the United Nations, as well as the local elite. 
"I did the best I could for them," says Sally. "There was a lot of money around, a lot of Arab princes." 
"Once they came, I always remem­bered them. I was always at the door." 
"If we had more of it (prostitution) today, we wouldn't have so much trouble," booms Sally. "Animals are far more realistic." 
But Sally, now about 65, thinks the modern sexual revolution has "gone too far. In the old days they didn't flaunt it like this. You didn't see kids who were pregnant at 12, unless it was incest." 
"There's been a general breakdown in morals," announces Sally, sipping her drink slowly. "Pot is the first step toward degridation." 

"Not these guys!" 
Could tile Globetrotters beat an NBA 
team? "could they beat us?" If you were 
to start a 7-game set with the Knicks 
tonight, would you be confident you 
could give them a good series? Meadow­
lark's reply was immediate: "I'm always 
confident." 
Dave questioned him about his treat­ment in the South. "I'm a black man in Russia just as much as in the South," he said. "I'm a black man everywhere I go. If I walked down the street holding hands with her (nodding towards me), even you'd take a second look." He said he'd like to be treated as a human being instead of a black man or a black entertainer. 
His manner is not one of finesse but class. "I'm a loner." "Do you spend much 
Ice Capades here tomorrow 

Multi-Vision, an original ice ballet, a live-action strobe-light freakout and the finest skating talents combine to make this season's Ice Capades a vibrant, streamlined production. 
The 30th Anniversary Edition opens Wednesday, April IS at the Athletic and Convocation Center for 7 performances through Sunday, April I 9. 
Six production numbers, along with topflight comedy and specialty acts, vary in theme and interest to insure enjoyment for the entire family. 
Ice comedy's number one charmer Freddie Trenkler returns along with. North American Champion Donald Knight; Japanese Champion Sashi Kuchiki; Olympic contenders Roy and Sandi Wagelein; lovely Janet Runn and Diane Schatz. 
New comers this season are Tina Noyes, an outstanding amateur competi­tor from Boston, just turned professional; Canada's &esty soloists Cliff McArdle and Marc Lebel; the adagio artistry of Jorge and Helga Valle, two family acts: The Romanos and California's talented Beard Family. To delight in the comedy depart­ment is the team of Johnny LaBrecque and Denise LaLonde, both from Mon­treal, Canada. 
Notre Dame-St. Mary's students will be 
given a special Vz price reduction in 
tickets for several Icc Capades perfor­
mances: Thursday, April 16 at 8 p.m.; 
Saturday, April I 8 at 2 p.m.; and Sunday, 
April 19 at 6 p.m. Students must present 
their !.D.'s when purchasing reduced 
price tickets. 
'• 

• 

. . of your spare time with your team­
?" "I d h · · ­
rnates. . spen enoug time w1th those guys " 
· . . He IS detached but without any trace 
H. . f I b . 
of coldness. IS presence IS e t ut not 111 
· d b · 
a flashy way. He deme e111g a 
Globetrotter to an inquiring Huddle 
.

waitress but later answered a stranger's greeting of "Hey Meadowlark 1" (Hey man, how're ya, doin?") Wh~n asked questions about the team in general he made it clear that he was answering only for himself. 
He unwrapped the hot dog. ("This doesn't look too good.") "Proud Mary" was on the song selector, and he put a quarter in and punched S-7. "I've been looking for that song." The machine instructed him to Select Any Single, and he asked if he got three plays. Then he selected "A-B-C" and "Popcorn " "Who are your favorite singers?" "I like the Temptations, James Brown, Sinatra, .. . 
O.C. Smith. The groups I don't like .. . they're doing their own thing, and that's fine with me." I asked if he ever got tired of hearing "Sweet Georgia Brown." With a half­smile he said, "You can't get tired of 
something that's your trademark; it's your whole life." 
Meadowlark Lemon looked tired and readily admitted that he felt tired. They had played in Milwaukee Friday evening, bussed in from there to South Bend, and would leave immediately after the game for a game in Toledo on Sunday. "It's the last game of our current series; we start again on May second. Tomorrow I fly out of Toledo for Chicago. Got some business there, then _I go home. Tuesday morning I've got a dentist appointment, then 1 have to settle some contracts." He was obviously anticipating his 'vacation,' but he assured us that he liked traveling as a Globetrotter. "I've been doing it for fourteen years, man; what do you think?" 
He is a serious man and when asked about his outlandish performances on the court, he said, "I'm an actor." He thought he would enjoy acting in another medium. I asked why he had the name 
'Meadowlark Lemon ' "B . 1 
· ecause wanted
it." " d · 
... an now, lad1es and gentlemen, last but certainly not least f
' ' rom
Wilmington, North Carolina . tl 
· , curren y
'd' . .
111
resJ mg . the tmy town of Fairfield,
Connecticut· at 6 ft 2 · b 36
' . · 111., num er , the Clown Pnnce of Basketball . . . Meadowlark Lemon'" 
It is not advisable to speak with Meadowlark before a Harlem Globe­trotter performance. On the court, he is a gangly squeaky-voiced clown and, as good an actor as he is, the disguise does not wipe out the impact that he leaves in conversation. He is doing what he wants to do and has been for fourteen years. But his dimension as entertainer and talented performer does not compare with his dimension as human being. 
.. 

Roy and Sandi WagekDt, who have been with the Ice Capades for two years, are featured in the show that appears Wednesday through Saturday at the ACC. 
711E OBSERrJER.

PAGE6 
.Browne discusses book 
by Tom Hufendick disbelief to "Mr. Browne, did ahyays say, 'Hey man, come by you write that by yourself?" 
for dinner.' You write a best­

"I've written a book that I'm In reference to his success seller and its always cocktail still in the process of trying to Browne noted, "It becomes very sips, cocktail sips." live down called Manchild in the unreal and the only place you Subsequently, after bringing Promised Land." can be treated as real, you know, the audience up-to-date on some 
It was from this point of after doing something like this is of the characters in his book, departure that Claude Browne when you go back to a Harlem Browne went on to talk about told a packed Washington Hall street and everything gets nor­Black Renaissance Part II: "A audience last night just what the mal for awhile." rebirth or resurgence of the general reaction to his book has Browne then went on to black renaissance from the been. Moreover, he explained his relate a series of experiences he 1920's and the 1930's." book in reference to the present has had since the publication of Browne emphasized that there black culture -Black Renais­his book. For example, he were many geniuses in the earlier sance, Part II. discovered how respected writers renaissance, but that they "tried 
In his opening remarks, like Thomas Wolfe become alco­too hard to get into the Browne indicated that white holics: intellectual bag." reaction to Manchild in the "Before, when you're just a Promised Land has ranged from struggling writer, your friends According to Browne, at­
tempt to get into this particular bag caused a lot of frustration

Marriage and love 
because that masterpieces these men were writing weren't ac­cepted by the period's white

is lecture topic 
intellectual establishment. It was out of this paradoxical"Marriage and the Love of has been a member of the situation that Renaissance, PartGod" will be the subject of a College faculty intermittently II arose. Browne said this move­lecture by Mrs. Helen Cartier since 1929. She currently ment was nurtured, for the mostWithey, assistant professor of teaches courses on "Jesus of part, at Howard University. 

theology at Saint Mary's tonight. Nazareth" and "Contemporary The third in the Department of Theological Questions." Prior to 
Besides noting the importanceReligious Studies series, the rejoining the faculty in 1965, 
Howard University had in his lecture will begin at 8 p.m. in she taught at the Holy Cross 

career, Browne discussed what Carroll Hall of the Madeleva School of Nursing and was Dean 
being a black renaissance writer Memorial Building. of Women there from 1961-64. 
entailed. 
Mrs. Withey will examine the 

A frequent lecturer in the Browne also stressed the im­connection between love in area, Mrs. Withey has published portance of "spiritual energy" in marriage and the love of God over 70 articles and has authored a black artist. He confided that from the existential viewpoint of 
a chapter in The Valiant Woman when writing he sometimes the experience of the marriage and two pamphlets on women's "trips so far out there" that he relationship. 
responsibilities. becomes totally involved in his A graduate of Saint Mary's 
The lecture i:; open to the story. with both a bachelor's and public without charge. In concluding his talk,master's degrees, Mrs. Withey 
Browne announced that Black 



(Continued from page 2) 
the incoming SU. McGrath's 
major objective is "to communi­
cate what the Union is doing and 
what is happening on campus to 
the students." He also wants to 
publish a book of major campus 
events occurring at all the major 
colleges of the midwest. 
McGrath was the Assistant 
Organization's Director in the 
Services Commission and the 
University Calendar Director this 
year. Other goals he envisioned 
were printing more matter in the comparison and judgment of success. 
In making the announcement Pohl said that the three appoin­tees were the best qualified of the applicants for their respective 
offices. He foresees no difficulty in forming a good working relationship, one of, he said, "Teamwork with a great amount of freedom and leeway gi~en to the individual staff members." He hoped that a good understanding of what was going on within the union would be realized by daily contact with

r-----....-o-=t;-r-e--=D=-a-m--e-a_n_d-=-S-f_._M_a_r_y_'_s____, Renaissance, Part II has been the South Bend publications giving each office. He emphasized, best thing to happen to the the surrounding community an however, that regardless of the American scene in years. Which informative link withh the independence granted to the 
events at ND and publishing a
Freshmen 
brought him to the subject of his positions, he is still the "ulti­
"State of the Union" pamphlet
future. In reference to the new mate authority" in the union 
before the schoql year as well as
black culture, "I'm going to try with all operations under his 
after to provide an avenue of discernment.
to perpetuate it."

Genera] Program of Libera] Studies 
Meet Your Major Night 
SLC defeats Dedrick's letter 
(Continued from page 1) other felt that if the Board of bers had helped to put off
7:30 PM 204 O'Shaughnessy 
decisions by hall govern """ents to express the fact that the stu­Trustees was going to be sent a

Wednesday, April15 
declare hall ~,.· .v<~IY in hopes
dents of N.D. consider it an 

report which included recom-that the Luard would act swift­
insult to their intelligence and mendations for change on hall sensibilities that such delays are life we should have the courtesy ly · perpetuated without any expla­to wait for their consideration. The letter concluded, "It is 

the feeling of many students
nation to the Student Body. The latter view prevailed, but it that a group of businessmen and It also said, "Many agonizing was done in the spirit that a decision would be reached at the administrative people in Florida
meetings of the Hall President's 
deciding about how students areCouncil and the SLC were spent March 20 meeting and passed on to govern their lives is inherentlyon these questions and the to the students the following antithetical to the developmentimpatience of the students had Monday, March 23." 

of community at Notre Dame.

reached major proportions. The letter continued, "When Some people seriously suggested this did not materialize the The delays of the Board of that the hall governments should students felt that they w~uld Trustees in deciding about hall 
simply go ahead and declare hall wait another two weeks until ~:: ha:~ddones~~~ahnt\~t~erp~~~~ autonomy. On the other hand, after Easter vacation for the feeling., decision. However, again t_he
BLOOD I)RIVE William F. Egan, Associate ALPHA PHI OMEGA decision was not ready to be Professor of Management,
distributed."
April 14 9-4 moved to lay Dedrick's letter on 
Professor John Houck echoed , the table. This motion was Stepan Center Dedrick's dissatisfaction saying
For info: Bob Miko quickly voted down by the that he and other faculty mem-Council primarily because it
283_1031 

1---------------'--------------,would mean no action. But then 
IN PERSON 
the motion to accept Dedrick's

JOHNNY CASH 
~e~i~e; v~~~ beaten down by a 

SAT. 
NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC AJID
APRIL 25 

CONVOCATION
8:00P.M. 

CENTER 
PLUS 
STATLER BROS.* CARL PERKINS 
"Where Quality Counts"

CARTER FAMILY* TOMMY CASH 
TOMPS£TT
Only $2. 75 Upper Arena 
Studio

Tickets Remain Tickets at ACC Box Office 
122 N. Michigan 233·fi157 




TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 1970 
~-------------------------------~P~AG=E~7 
Chancellor functions as spokesman 
dent. In the event of a unresol­when the President is absent). As
This is the jiJUrlh in a for signing contracts, deeds and offices created by our plan. The jive-par/ series written by the legal agreements, for taking care Chancellor will be the Univer­vable disagreement both officers the Scholastic contended in its would have the right to appeal January 16, 1970 issue: Since he
Nutting for President Jfead-of the University's normal busi­sity's chief executive and admin­
Executive President)

1/Uarters. ness activity. istrative officer, the President to the Board of Trustees. {the Vice 
Since it seems (to use the holds the position of presidentWorking from yesterday's The President will be respon­will be the University's chief 
temporarily,

distinction between external and sible for faculty appointments academic "innovator." The words of Connelly, et. a!., only he must 
operate under the subtle pres­

internal affairs, we will now and will preside over academic Chancellor may be a teacher, but Scholastic, March 21, 1969), 
sure of knowing that he must

attempt to describe the duties of functions, when he is present. he is basically a manager; the that "in practice policy turns 
bear the responsibility of his

the Ch:.mcellor and the Presi­He will further be required to President will he the University's out to be set by one man, Father 
office without tile benefit of the

dent, in a way in which closely teach at least one normal class greatest teacher. Hesburgh, working in concert 
commensurate power of authori­

follows the terms which cur­per semester. In their discussion As we have already suggested, with his top-level associates, and, 
ty. As an example, the proposal

rently define the President's of the University President, many of the University's impor­in some cases with the Board of 
of the Art Department to

duties found in the bylaws of Stanford (in A Cuide to Catholic tant decisions involve both Trustees;" are alternative would 
renovate the Fieldhouse in the

the University (see our first College Administration) and external and internal elements. actually result in having the 
interest of the arts fell on deaf

segment, April 8.) Rourke and Brooks (in The For this reason it is not sur­matters of policy functionally 
ears until the president met with

The Chancellor will represent Managerial Revolution in Higher prising that many of the respon­divided between two men: with 
members of the Arts Council

the University before the public. Education) emphasize that "no sibilities are to be jointly met by the appropriate lower level 
and promised to "do what I

He will serve as the University's university official is in a better the Chancellor and the Presi­administrators responsible to the 
can." The Fieldhouse now

spokesman to the larger national position than a president to dent. They will both be respon­appropriate leader (the Chan­
belongs to the arts. Notre Dame

and international community by stimulate or enhance capacities sible for setting the general cellor and/or the President)... 
operates, but only sporadically,

serving on government and for academic achievement on direction of the University, for This again raises the question 
as decisions wait "until the

educationally interested boards campus . . . (However) the making an annual report on the of "what happens to the rest of 
president f!ets back."

and committees and by attend­modern university president General Condition of the Univer­the administrative structure." ing related functions. The ob­does not himself tend to be an sity to the Board of Trustees, Let us reiterate, as far as we are taining of financial support with innovator . . . the university and for submitting, annually, a proposing here-NOTHING. 
John l..ennon 

its concomminant concern for president is now ... an efficient Budget to the Executive Com­Furthermore, it should be evi­alumni relations and university manager of a vast and complex mittee of the board. Likewise, dent from the way in which the investments (and endo'\\41Tlent) is educational enterprise (Rourke both men will be ex officio offices of Chancellor and Presi­the second major responsibility and Brooks, pg II0-111)." members of all the committees dent are defined that this is 
Erotic l..ithos 

of the Chancellor. With this In this observation, we find of the Board. radil:ally different from the duty, comes the responsibility the basic definition of the new The seperation of responsi­present President and Executive bilities envisioned here is vitally Vice-Presiden~ set up. This is 
Notre Dame Special! With 
this ad . . . $150 each.

dependent upon selecting two obvious for two reasons: I) the 
Complete set of 15 $1385.

Nietzsche lecture set people who can work together as current structure does not give 
Sets of these lithos sold out

a team. Yet, the necessity of the Executive V.ice-President 
Professor Erich Heller, 
in London at $2000 per set . .

compatability does not mean (Father Edmund P. Joyce,internationally known scholar 
Hs.~ays. that the Chancellor and Presi-C.S.C. presently holds this post) 
. This investment offer ex­and crith.: of the German ln addition, he has edited and dent must express (or represent) charge of all "internal matters," 
pires Sunday, April 26. Cata­

romantic movement, will appc~r contributed to numerous the same viewpoint. It would rather he functions (to quote 
logue available $2.95 and 

as the fianl speaker in the collective editions on modern seem to us that on occasion the from Section III of the Bylaws 
$.15 tax. 

Humanistic Studies Lecture J.t literature and thought. responsibilities of the two posi-of the Board of Trustees): "In Saint Mary's College on Dr. Heller has been honored tions would result in decisively the absence or disability of the Thursday. Dr. Heller's ta!k on with election to corresponding different views. Resolution of President, the Executive Vice 
Cellar Gallery

"Nietzsche" is scheduled to membership of the German possible controversy would have 
President shall become Actingbegin at 8 pm in the Little Academy of Language and to come through a close working President." In this way the 
Near Hancock Bldg.

Theatre of Moreau Hall and is Literature and the Bavarian relationship between the two proposal is clearly a significant 
49 East Oak St.

open to the public without Academy of the Arts. men, so that compromise modification. 2) The Executive 
Chicago

charge. The Lecture Series has been through dialogue would be Vice President is in a sort of sponsored annually for the last possible. 
limbo as far as his present 
312-642-6775

Currently Avalon Professor in 13 years by the Department of Here then, we are led to concerned;
responsibilities are the Humanities at Northwestern Humanistic Studies. An consider how decision-making at 
for he is rarely free to act on 
Open till Midnite Fri. and Sat.

University, Dr. Heller (' is an i'l t e rde partmental program, Notre Dame would be changed crucial internal matters (even 
Noon till 8 on Sunday

honors graduate of the .erman Humanistic Studies offers by this restructuring. Basically,r---------------t--------~"'-----1 University in Prague and students a selective study of the the decision-making process 
Sophomore literary Festival
received his Ph.D. from the rise of Western Civilization with would remain the same. Final University of Cambridge. He has history, literature, art, theology, authority on matters as they are 
presents

held appointment& as visiting and philosophy viewed as defined above would rest with lecturer and professor at such inter-related factors. the Chancellor and/or the Presi­
distinguished institutions as the 1----::;;;:;;:;;;;;::::;;;::::;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;::;:;;;;;;;:;;-::;;:;;;,;=.;:=;:-.::..:.......:..:..:..:...._..:...;.;l Gary Snyder
universities of Berlin, Cologne, Munich, Heidelberg, Cambridge, Wales, Harvard, Yale, Chicago, 
Poet and Oriental Scholar
California and others. 
A prolific author, Professor Heller has published essays in both English and German on the 
8 PM Tonite Washington Hall 
works of such authors as c;oethe, Schiller, Neitzsche, 
Student Union Academic Commissio
Rilke, Thomas Mann, and Kafka. His hooks indude: The 
sponsors

/Jisinherited Mind, The /Iazard of Modern Poetry, The Ironic 
a lecture by

German, A Study of Thomas /11(1nn and The Artist's Journey 
Typing Wanted-Essays, dis­
ALAN WATTS 
sertations or manuscripts. Exper­ienced, accurate and reasonable. Can pick-up and deliver. Call Mrs. 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE 
TEL: (312) 944-7500·ZIP: 60611
Jean Motsinger, 259-1304. 
Add fifty cents for shipping plus sales tax where applicable 
-Authority on Eastern Religion and Philosophy -Author: The Way of Zen. The Joyous Cosmology..h yond Theology, The Two Hands of God
STUDENT UNION 
-President, Society for Comparative Philosophy
SOCIAl. COMMISSION 
on

IS ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR THE POSITIONS OF: 
"Catholicism and Hinduism­
Assistant Social Commissioner Tlc"et Manager Collegiate Jazz Festival Chairman Concert Chairman 
An Opportunity Overlooked" Special Projects Chairman Promotion Directo Homecoming Chairman Business Manager Grand Prix Chairman Mardi Gras Chairman 
Applications should be submitted by April 15 to: TUESDAY APRIL 14 8:00PM Social Commissioner 
Box 427 

ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM 


PAGE 8 

TilE OBSERVER TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 1970 
JIM MURRAY
To Russia Track has false start 
(1) 1970, Los Angeles Times 
With Love 
Well, I see where the Soviet Union, that mother of sportsmen which has always been able to make a clear distinction between athletics and politics, has come out with its big pitch for the 1976 Olympics. 
The Soviet Union bases its appeal on three things: l) It has "always" been an ardent supporter of the Olympics but, nevertheless, no "Socialist" country has ever been host; 2) Moscow and Russia have a "long history" of staging and participating in international athletic events and have facilities therefor; 3) Moscow in Russia is.a "treasure house" of culture and will be wide open and un-curtained to "atl who head for our country with good, honest intentions." 
So there you are. Mother Russia is at your feet, world. The temptation is strong. It wasn't too many years ago the only way you could get to Russia was with a bayonet. Or a mask. Or a forged passport. Unless, of course, Hitler was at their throat. THEN, you could get there only through Doenitz' U-boats on the Murmansk run -so long as you were carrying arms or oil or supplies for the Red Army. Even if you crashed there, after bombing Nazi oil fields in Ploesti, you were interned there. 
So, what red-blooded internationalist would not rather go to that mysterious citadel of all communism than to L'JS Angeles? Shuc k~, anybody can go to L.A. 
Besides, Moscow's credentials are impeccable. They !•.ave had a. "long" history of "ardent" support for the Cly1 1pi~ Games. 
I Pardon my guffaw. 
I ~ The modern Olympic Games were reviv·~d i 1 1896. They were 
I held successively in Athens, Paris, St. Louis, Lo.1don, Stockholm,
I Antwerp, Paris, Amsterdam, Los Angeles and .~er.in. After the war,
I 
~ they were held in London. I The communists who were in power from 191 b .1ever sent a tcan,
I 
a rose, a javelin, a match, or a cigaret to any ( JlyJ·lpic Games unti~.
I I 1952 at Helsinki. Even then, they refused to allow t:1e Olympic 
I torch to be carried through their country on th\~ way from Athens to
I 
I Helsinki. I But they competed well at Helsinki. They had be now perceivedI sports as a useful propaganda arm for "peace."
I I On the eve of the Melbourne Olympics in 19.>6, Moscow had an 
I uprising to subdue. Purely a local matter. The natives of the a11cient 
I I 
Russian city of Budapest were restless. So they got crushed by Soviet tanks. A few Hungarians persisted in misunderstanding, and defected from the Melbourne Olympics Soviet team to ,he West. The
t 
Ru.;sians then herded a boatful of Czechs, Russians and Hungarians
~ and took them home by sea and by way of the Siberian railroad. It was clear that sports and athletics were separate questions. But, a few years ago, the Soviet Uriion was ir.vited to compete in a
t 
dual meet in Los Angeles. They accepted, then sat by filing their nails while the sponsors went about, lining up talent, arranging transportation, grinding out publicity, doing all the things you have to do to stage even a sub-Olympic international event like that. 
On the eve of the games, the "ardent" supporters of international competition suddenly announced they weren't coming. The bombings in North Vietnam had disenfranchised America as host for the event, they said. The yoke was on the sponsors. 
On Aug. 20, I968, on the eve of the Mexico City Olympics, 200,000 Soviet troops suddenly invaded Czechoslovakia, tanks rumbling into Prague, opposition crushed, and Czech leaders arrested and spirited to Moscow. Within three weeks bitter suppression was imposed on the press and the country, puppets were installed in the government and a treaty was signed to permit Soviet forces to remain in the country indefinitely (they stayed out in the countryside where tourists could never get to see them). 
Then the Russian "ardent supporters of athletics" cashiered Czechoslovakia's greatest sports hero, Emil Zatopek, out of the army (he was a colonel). They put the man who held four gold medals and won the 5,000, l 0,000 and marathon in the I 952 Olympics to collecting garbage for "failure to understand the principal questions of the development of our socialist state" and for "naive" political views. English translation: Believing in Freedom. 
The Soviets say "no Socialist state" has ever held the Olympics. No "Socialist" state has ever asked to. 
The International Olympic Committee has, since the Olympic Games were awarded to Los Angeles and America in 1932, sent the games twice to Germany, once to Italy and once to Japan. The only non-Axis countries to get it since the war were Finland, Australia, and Mexico. London doesn't count, they took it on a crash basis. No one else wanted it. 
The IOC cynically awarded the games to Hitler in 1936 over the combined outcry of world Jewry and other supporters of democracy everywhere. It was, predictably, turned into a propaganda show of the first magnitude. 
Obviously, they have forgiven Germany -because they awarded the games to Munich in '72. Egypt is probably very high on their list of future probabilities, too. 
Los Angeles and the U.S. would like the '76 Olympics. For one reason, it is the 200th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, which is still the only lasting victory over despotism in this millenium. 
I don't expect this will carry much weight with the Olympic Committee. Not, that is, weighed against all those art treasures of those ardent supporters of athletics in Moscow. There is also the delicious implication that Moscow will bar any who do not pass the chillingly-significant qualification of "all who head for our country with good, honest intentions. My grandfather once said, "He who faces hypocrisy must grow another face." 
Don't be surprised if the group picture of the 70-man Olympic Committee picking the '76 site at Amsterdam next month shows 280 eyes-and 140 shamed faces. 
by Steve O'Connor 0 bserver Sportswriter The outdoor track season opened rather informally last Saturday as Coach Alex Wilson took the Irish trackmen to a practice meet in Ann Arbor, Michigan. It was a miserable day for any outdoor sports event and this weather coupled with the Easter layoff rendered the disappoint­ing results meaningless. No scores were kept, and no world records were set but it is known that the Irish two-mile relay team captured first. This was the only Irish victory in a meet which served mainly as a tuneup for the season ahead. The 1970 squad will have to rely on balance, as several standouts have graduated. Bill Hurd an All-American sprinter will leave the sprints in the hands of Rick V allicelli, a freshman, Jack Samar, a junior and Ricky Harris, a sophomore. These three will give the Irish something to work with but the loss of Hurd will be noticed everytime the winner is an­nounced. Replacing Irish record holder Kevin O'Brien ( 1500 meters) will be Joe Quaderer, sophomore Pat Holleran and senior Bob Watson. These three should handle most of the 

chores at the one-mile and two-mile distances. In the mid­dle distances th'e Irish are strong principally because Rick Wohl­hutter will be running the 440 and 880. Wohlhutter, a junior, captured the NCAA 600 in 
1:09:5 to close a personally successful indoor season and he should be tough to beat at both the 440 and the 880 this spring. Other middle distance men hoping to add precious depth to this Irish squad are Vince Am· brico and team Captain Mike McCann. N.D. hurdle entrants will be principally juniors Joe Utz and Dave Stickler. Mike Donnelly and Mike Collins will handle the grueling steeplechase event. 
ln the field events the Irish have· some glaring weaknesses but at most spots are very solid. Sophomore Elio Polselli will handle the shotputting chores and he will team with record­holder Paul Gill to give the Irish a solid discus en try. Mike McMannon, a versatile performer recovered from an ankle injury he suffered during the indoor season, will try to better his varsity records in the long and triple jumps. Pushing him in these will be fellow sophomore Kevin McAuliffe. Those glaring weaknesses are in the High Jump and Pole Vault and it will be up 
to Sarkis Chobanian and Jan DeBenedetto to make sure the Javelin event doesn't fall into this same "weakness" category. 
Led by these individuals the team will begin the season in earnest this Saturday as they will take part in the Ohio State Relays in Columbus, Ohio. 

An oversight appeared in yesterday's Irish Eye column. Ralph Stepaniak, a sophomore from Alpena, Michigan, was not listed ·among the present starters on the defensive unit. Stepaniak is starting at on defensive half­back position, his name was confused on the depth chart, however. Tom Eaton and Mike Crotty are battling for the other place in the secondary. 

Rowers edge Wayne State 
The Crew Club lost two races over the weekend but they managed to win the one that counted most at Wolverine Lake in Michigan. Wayne State of Detroit (the oldest crew in the Midwest) provided the opposifion as Notre Dame increased their varsity record to 2-3 this spring. 
The Irish were unable to win either the J V or "third boat" (a mixture of freshmen and sophs) races. In the third boat race neither team had much of il commanding lead until the end when Wayne St. managed to pull away by one and a half lengths. 
The JV boat, led by female 
coxswain Barb Walker, couldn't manage to overtake its Motown opponents either. This crew was likewise beaten by one and a half lengths. 
In the feature race of the afternoon the Irish edged Wayne State over the unique one mile course (the usual course covers 2,000 meters) by a mere two feet! The race was exceptionally close throughout with neither boat gaining more than three quarters length. Nearing the finish the boys from Wayne State took the lead for the first time but the Irish increased their rate to 39 strokes per· minute and this proved to be the margin 
Knicks Holzman Coach of Year 
NEW YORK (UPI) -William "Red" Holzman, who guided the New York Knicks to their most successful season in his­tory, was named National Basketball Association coach of the year yesterday by a panel of writers. 
Holzman received I 7 votes from the 40 man committee in the eighth annual poll. He became the first New York coach to win the honor. Joe Mullaney of Los Angeles was second with niHe votes, followed by Richie Guerin of Atlanta and Larry Costello of Milwaukee with five each. 

of victory. Purdue Boilermakers Club. The The next race for Notre Dame race is at home (St. Joseph will be this Saturday against the River) and it begins at 2:00p.m. 
Ruggers win big one 
Led by Mike Paterni and Gary Gleason, the Notre Dame rugby club registered an impressive 6-3 victory over highly rated Palmer Chiropractic School last Satur­day behind the Stepan Center. 
Although a small school, Pal­mer's rugby team is among the nation's best and Saturday's clash was considered to be the "big" game of the Notre Dame spring season schedule. 
A penalty kick by Paterni midway through the first half gave the Irish a 3-0 lead and when Gleason added three more points by scoring a "try" in the latter stages of the first half Notre Dame had all the points they needed for the win. Pal­mer's three tallies came on a penalty kick late in the second half. 
The Irish backs played well defensively but the Irish control­led the ball and the game, thanks to an outstanding performance by the men up front in the serum. Overcoming a size deficit by speed and toughness the Irish were able to dominate the action in the serum completely. Stand­outs in the serum for Notre Dame were Charley Schmidt, Dave Fleming, Jim Butler, Char­ley Blum, and Mike Morrisson. 
The Irish ruggers, now sport­
ing  a  3-0-l  record  will  be  in  
action  again  this  weekend, tra­ 
veling  to  Indiana  University  to  

oppose a tough Hoosier squad. 

MAJOR LEAGUES 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
East  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Philadelphia  3  2  .600  
St. Louis  3  2  .600  
New York  3  2  .600  
Pittsburgh  3  2  .600  
Chicago  1  3  .250  1%  
Montreal  1  4  .200  2  
West  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Cincinnati  6  3  .667  
San Diego  4  .  3  .571  
*San Fran  4  3  .571  
*Atlanta  3  3  .500  1Y:.  
Houston  3  4  .330  2  
L.A.  2  5  .286  3  

*last night's game not included Last night's results: Atlanta 9, San Francisco 3; 5th inning San Diego 3, Cincinnati 1 Los AnQeles 2, Houston 0 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
East  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Baltimore  5  1  .833  
Detroit  3  3  .500  2  
Washington  3  3  .500  2  
Boston  2  3  .400  2Y,  
New York  2  3  .400  2%  
Cleveland  2  4  .333  3  
West  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
California  5  0  1.000  
Minnesota  3  0  1.000  
*Milwaukee  3  3  .500  2%  
Kansas City  2  4  .333  3%  
*Oakland  1  3  .250  3%  
Chicago  5  .167  4%  

*last night's game not included Last night's results: Kansas city at Minnesota, ppd., cold Milwaukee at Oakland, night 







