
Homecoming changes proposed; 
•

Charities would rece1ve money 
Tom Gora committees, ea,;h to build a his plan would benefit all the float, one for the North Quad 
students. Financially speaking,
Monday 'light the Hall Presi­
area, and one for the main quad Imhoff believes the halls woulddents' Council discussed plans 
area. fund~: for the upcoming Homecoming 
The for these two really be losing nothing since the t 
floats would come from the money would now be put to aWeekend with particular focus $3 50 apwopri.ated as prize good purpose. Badin Hall President Buz Imhoff HPC Chairman John Barkett on a proposal calling for a money each year by the Student 
change in the traditional float "Something has always struck 
Union. The mon1~y that each hall 
contest. The new plan, presented me as being futile about a hall
usually spent on construction 
Erroneous statement
by Badin Hall President Buz spending as much as $100 on
costs for the individual floats 
Imhoff provides for the joint something that's of no lasting
would then be donated to chari­
construction of two major floats value and will be torn down
ties chosen from a list drawn up 
instead of one float per hall. within two days of its comple­
by the HPC. 

retracted by WSND 
Imhoff's proposal suggests tion," Imhoff said.
In stating his Jrationale for the 
that the money the halls would Don Capshaw within The Qbserver staff.
proposal Imhoff explained that Although the Council doesnormally spend in float con­
only fifty or sixty percent of the not know exactly how the Last Tuesday a John Yerko "Since I felt that it was a. 
struction be given to a charity or 
halls participate: in the float money WOILild be distributed, commentary was broadcast over damned shame for The Obser­charities in the South Bend area. 
competition and the interest in they are considering two major WSND regarding The Observer's ver to suspend publication due Included in the plan is provi­
building the floats usually lies in ideas: 1) the individual hall suspended publication. The fol­
sion for the creation of two to internal friction, I believed
a few individuals. Imhoff feels would be n:sponsible for dona­lowing day, a retraction was 
the commentary was appro­ting float money to a charity of broadcast by Y erko to coll\Pen-~ priate. However, . when I dis­
its choice; or 2) the money ·sate for erroneous information
'The Selling of a Senator' 
covered The Observer's problemswould be collected by the HPC given \VSND concerning reasons were financially orientated, I felt 
SPECIAL FROM CHICAGO SUN-TIMES 
and given to one or more chari­for the suspension. 
a retraction was necessary," heSeven hippie-types from against law and order legislation.' ties, as chose:n by the HPC. In his commentary, Yerko cri­said.
Chicago are the stars of a pro-Several other Roudebush ticized The Observer for sus­posed political television spot in commercials, already on film, The measure passed unani­pending publication. He blamed Yerko believes that the uni­
versity needs a campus news­
which they portray the type of characterize Hartke as "soft on internal troubles for the suspen­
mously in a preliminary vote by 
paper. "There are certain things 
radicals that one Indiana candi-communism" and against law sion. However, in an interview,
the Hall Pn:sidents and awaits 
a newspaper can do that a radio
date for the U.S. Senate claims and order, all of which one more vote Monday after the Yerko said he was given wrong station can't and vice-versa," hehis opponent supports. Hartke-seeking a third six-year presidents have met with resi­information regarding the rea­said. Yerko stated that he knew'Eight hippies originally were term-vigorously denies. dents of their halls. sons for the paper's recent prob­very little about the actual inside 
cast for the job. But one quit The hippies were hired about lems. "I received a phone call 
work of The Observer and he
while the film was being shot two weeks ago i:n a North Side The council also discussed a from what I considered a reliable also added that he could notthis week in rural northwest Chicago tavern for $75 apiece. proposal designed to give con­source," said John, "but it understand why The ObserverIndiana because, he said, he Kevin Koch, 1 944 N. Burling, cerned studemts the opportunity turned out that the information was having financial problems.
found the commercial repug-quit the troupe during the shoo­to offer th,eir student football given was incorrect." Yerke "Whatever the case may be," henant. ting-without his $75. He said he tickets to th'e Georgia Tech game stated that his source said The 
The commercial, if used, will found the commercial "distaste­to underprivileged children from Observer's suspended publica­said, "I am glad The Observer is 
back, believe it or not."
depict the young men and ful" and added: the South Bend community. tion was due to internal friction 
women supposedly traveling (Continued on page 6) from state to state to create trouble while committing anum­Paris Negotiationsber of distasteful or illegal acts. 
The filming was paid for by backers of U.S. Rep. Richard L. Roudebush (R-Ind), who is 


U.S. will not abandon Thieu-Ky
seeking to unseat U.S. Sen. Vance Hartke, a Democrat, in the November election. PARIS (UPI)--U.S. negotiator Sunday, Bruce told the Hanoe would be a participant in these Mme. Nguyen Thi Binh, chief 
The intended message of the David K. E. Bruce, on the eve of and Viet Cong negotiators at the meetings," Bruce said. negotiator and foreign minister commercial according to an In­his departure for consultations 86th session of the Vietnam of the Viet Cong's Provisional dianapolis advertising executive, with President Nixon, told the peace talks their demands for Although official spokesmen Revolutionary Government, said is that Hartke encourages what Communist Vietnamese Thurs­the overthrow of the ruling for both North Vietnamese and all they heard from Bruce Thurs­
the hippies portray by voting day the United States will not triumvirate of South Vietnam Viet Cong delegations later day "was his old scratched abandon the present Saigon were "unreasonable." characterized the American record, playing the same old leadership in return for an early stand as a "rejection" of the tune." 
peace in Vietnam. · 

"It is ~qually unacceptable for latest Communist proposals, your side to demand, as a pre-both U.S. and Saigon officials Emerging from the three and
BULLETIN 

Probing Communist inten-condition to serious negotiation, refused to use the word one half hour session of the CAIRO (UPI) Acting tions for the bst time before the removal of the leadership of "rejection" to describe their deadlocked conference, Bruce Egyptian President Anwar EI conferring with Nixon in Ireland a government which you agreed position. told newsmen: 
Sadat and former Prime Minister SMc • h ~ •d 
Ali Sabri suffered heart attacks t 0 e ent "It was the same as usual, no yesterday just as President C~:>n Inues searc r pr Sl departure from the statements G l N ' f 1 b g · · · 1 11 h 1 . . · · and discourse that we've heard
ama _asse~ ~ une~a e an, Ann Mane Tracey, SMC stu-Reportm!~ to a a -sc oo con-They JUdge each candidate on • . . . the semt-offtctal Carro news-dent body president yesterday, vocation, Miss Tracey explained these criteria: Ph.d. educational bhefore and ~o clanftcaho~ from Paper AI Ahram said · '. th s AI f 'tt . . . · . t e other stde about therr pro­
: . announced the appomtment of at r. rna, or~er commt e~ and admmtstratlve expenence. . , ,T~e. newspaper dtd _not gtve a Sr. Miriam Patrick as new chair-chairman, relinqmshed her _post-Although there is no age limit, posals, whtch wed ask~d for. condthon report on.etther man. man of the presidential search tion becaue: of her other com-the committee prefers younger M The ~roposals, submitted_ by AI Ahram sa1d doctors mt'ttments. 1. t me. Bmh Sept. 17 as an etght
app Jean s. · t " · T · " ff d
exa~ined Sadat and gave hi~ a Sister is also director of the By next Friday the B~ard of pom ?eace llll IatJve, 0 er~ cardto~ram at the revolutJ_on Rome program and acting Trustees has requ~sted that the the _l.Jmted_ Stat~s a _cease fue 
council headquarters, startmg , · . and Immediate dtscuss10n of the · t 0 f th f 1 d "'t1 college president. searc_h committee have three release of American pnsoners in 
pom e unera • an was Besides announcing the candidates to present to the~~~~~d t~at he lie in bed at the appointment, Miss Tracey also Board. To date, the committee return for a declaration the u mg. briefed the assembly on the ~as interviewed six men for the United States will pull all its troops out of South Vietnam by 
committee's actions during the Job.MNG. EDITOR NAMED 
summer. "I am very impressed with the next June 30 and will remove From those people suggested excellent cooperation of the the three top leaders of the 
Bill Carter· a Senior English as presidential candidates, forty-students while we are earnestly Saigon government-President major from New York City, was fifty nominees accepted searching for a president," Nguyen Van Thieu, Vice Presi­named late last night by Editor­appointment to be interviewed commented Sr. Alma. "When? dent Nguyen Cao Ky, and Prime in-Chief Glen Corso to the· by the committee. On this We don't know." Minister Tran Thieu Khiem. newly-created post of managing committee, students, faculty, "We are being finicky because Only then, she said, would the editor. Carter will head a new administrators, and the alumnae we want the right person at "1e Communists stop shooting and department of quality control. president preside. Student inter.. right time. These next five to en get down to negotiating with the Carter also joins Corso and five viewers inculde Miss Tracey, years will be crucial for colleges Saigon government on the poli­other already-named editors on Jean Gorman, student body. especially liberal arts ones" ex­tical future of the the Observer Editorial Board. vice-president, Carol Henninger ' plained Sister. country. 
Ann Marie Tracy 
Cathy Callan, and Julie Dwver. 


..••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• a maneuver that coincided with in the deaths of several Com-

Mrs. Roy Falls  Free Babysitting  
234-2244  for all NID or SMC  
712 Lindsey  Students:  
Call Today  
after 3:30  In Case of IEmergency  
for information  wife jobhunting, etc.  



: R E FRIGERAT Q R S FQR R E NT 
• : • U d S I
• nIimite up p y 
: 
• 
: $ 7.00 per month 
I 


: Share the cost ·:with your roommates 
: $10 Damage Deposit Fee
I 
• (Refundable)
I 
e PLUS Compensation for 
: 
e Vacation Periods
I; 
• 

'1 
· • 
j : I· • 
II
i
! 
,Delivery, Service, Maintenance, & Pick-Up ARE FREE
.


! t(0 M pACT' C 00L, I. NC. 
.• 
• another service ofStudent Services Commission 
!·
1  Contact:  DICK G10RMAN  
•.. 1  7757 01r 6723 4th FICliOr LaFortun~  4  -6  
' \  or 123 Farlev  


••••••••••••••••••••••••••,...........................••••••••••• ' 1-------------,.J 

I 
~ 

~~l "n1e Ideal Christmas Gift" 

:;:J Miniature Notre Dame rings are available in a wide choice of jeweled or plain styles. These rings may be presented as engagement tokens to the girl of your choice, or to a feminine member of your family with whom you wish to share the prestige of your association with the University. 
The miniature ring is identical with the official ring design, only more delicate in its modulation and construction. 
Wedding bands to wear with the miniatures can be especially contoured to fit as an ensemble. These plain and contoured bands are illustrated above. 



:::: ****• 
:::: ORDIER YOUR MINIATURE RING FROM 
F.REE. 
buy
you can re n t 0 r 

Cambodians bomb Moat Karsas 
between Phnom Penh and the pH N 0 M PENH (UPI) capital stood on the east bank country's rich rice fields in the 
Cambodian air force T28 planes and watched the explosions and north west. 
bombed the town of Moat Kar-smoke. 
sas on the west bank of the Communist forces were be-A Cambodian military spokes­Mekong River Thursday while lieved to have moved into the rna n said air strikes were hundreds of residents of this town, six miles from downtown ordered against the three' Phnom Penh, during the night in smaller towns and they resulted 
: at~acks agains~ ~our tow_ns on . munist soldiers. But he declined 
: H1ghway 5 w1thm 60 nules of to say whether Communists had 
• 
the capital. occupied_ any of the towns along

• 
The commander of two Cam-an !8 mile segment of the high­: bod ian artillery batteries based • way. 


: alongSide the rain swollen Mekong e River outside the capital said he : had received no order~ to fire on
•I Moat Karsas prior to the bomb­:: ing strike. The raids drew many
•· capital residents to the river :' bank from the annual religious 
• festival, Pchun Ben, in honor ofli ancestors.
•1 
"As far as I know, the Com­1 munists are in Moat Karsas,"
1

• 
said the artillery commander, : Capt. Tang Toulong. "But they 

• 
are unlikely to threaten PhnomI Penh itself because the river is

• 
still very high." : To the northwest of the capi­: tal, Communist units attacked e the provincial capital of Kom­: pong Chhaang with mortars and e automatic weapons and sent:troops into three smaller towns­


·e 0 Sandan, Tau Laak and Sala 
: Lek Pram. All are located on 
e highway 5, the only ground link 
.£.--------___, 
:.. ~ 
•'., 
!• 
•. 
!' 
• 
: 
•.
1 
Custom-hand made leather goods at: 
Leather Ltd. 
118 S. Main Street south Bend, Ind. 46601 
i 

I 
apiece. The Commission decided '"because of the lack to time to negotiate a better contract and other technical difficulties, it would prove to be unreasonable and unfeasable to bring the Jef­
I 

ferson Airplane on HomecomingJ1I Weekend to the A.C.C.." 
:;:;; 
:=:~ 
::::1 
"It's Always Leather Weather" at: 
Leather Ltd. 
118 S. Main Street South Bend, Ind. 46601 
The Observer Is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Ob­server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
"We must keep the highways open if we hope to have any sufficient rice crop at all," said an Agricultural Ministry official, noting that the rice crop is to be harvested this month. 
The Communists control seg­ments of four of the six major highways in Cambodia, including Highway 4 that links the capital with the country's only deep seaport and oil refinery at Kom­pong Som. 
Officials said U.S. aircraft were used Wenesday night against the Communist forces attacking along Highway 5, the first confirmation from high level Cambodian officers that 
American planes are bemg used 
outside normal military opera­
tiona! areas. 
Airplane never sipecl-Porst 
Jim Pone~, Student Union 
Social Commissioner, yesterday 
told the Observer that the Jeffer­
son Airplane, rumored to be in 
concert here on October lOth 
"was never under any committ. 
ment to Notre Dame nor us to 
them" 
In the beginning of September the Social Commission looked into the possibility of scheduling the Airplane and discovered that they had an open date on Oct­ober lOth. "But," Ponce en­phasized," there was no verbal nor written agreement made." After the contract provisions were disclosed it was apparent that Grace Slick and crew would be a financial disaster if brought to Notre Dame. 
The Airplane demanded a guarrantee of $1 5,5 00 for the concert plus 60% of all profits over $16,500 as well as a mini­mum gross of $39,000. To reach. this amount the tickets would have to have run from $6 to $7 


BELGRADE (UPJ) -President Nixon and Yugoslav President Tito agreed Thursday that "fur­ther patient efforts" are needed to defuse the Middle East con­flict. But in nearly two hours of talks, they failed to reach full understanding on how peace can be achieved. 
Nixon and the 78 year old Communist ruler discussed their mutual concern over the "very grave and delicate situation" in the Middle East and other world flashpoints on the final day of Nixon's visit to Yugoslavia, the first by an American President. 
The formal ceremonies came to a close Thursday night with a state dinner hosted by Nixon that featured Colorado roast prime sirloin and a performance by the U.S. Marine Band. 
. Nixon fli!!S to Madrid, Spain, Fuday, the third nation on his itinerary in a nine day European tour designed to emphasize the American presence in the Medi­terranean in the face Of growing Soviet involvement there. Nixon combined private talks with public exposure Thursday. He shook hands with crowds in Zagreb, capital of the Yugoslav republic of Creatia, for a rain swept drive in an open car along street lined with an estimated 100,000 persons huddled under umbrellas. Then he drove through hills to Tito's birth place in the village of Kumrovac 22 miles northwest of Zagreb. As on Wednesday, the crowds at Nixbn's various stops were large and friendly, and Tito told Nixon at one point, "We can get 
people to come out. But you know, Mr. President, you cannot get them to smile or show the warmth that they have here." 
White House officials said 
Nixon, in his talks with Tito, 
asked advice on how to get 
Middle East peace talks resumed 
despite the confusion caused by 
the death of Egyptian President 
Gamal Abfel Nasser. He alcio 
stressed, they said, that the America aim is to let the peoples of the Middle East live their own lives, without foreign inter­ference. 
Yugoslav officials described the talks, held at the imposing modern Federal Executive Build­ing in New Belgrade, as "mutually beneficial." They said the two men agreed on the need for "further patient work and new efforts to create conditions for the peaceful solution of the crisis" in the Middle East in­cluding a solution to the 'pro­blem of Palestine refugees. 
But they indicated there was 
Frye boots, leather vests, hats, etc. at: 
Leather Ltd. 
188 S. Main Street South Bend, Ind. 46601 
In a wide choice ofleathers. 
creative crafting makes the difference 


14rut~er 1Utb. 

118 6 .. flatu &tttti 

&nut~ Jkub, Jub. 46601 
Tito, who strongly supports the Arab nations, and Nixon, who has given military and political support to Israel. In addition to the Middle East, the talks touched on Southeast Asia and the Vietnam War, Africa and Bilateral cooper­ation betwt:en Yugoslavia and the United States. Nixon was accompanied by Secretary of State William P. Rogers and Foreign affairs adviser Dr. Henry Kissinger. They faced Tito and his aides across a green haize table. 

118 S. Main Street South Bend, Ind. 46601 
On the Night Before The 
ND·MSU Game 
Pr•C•..Rallr 
Live Music -Cash Bar Jack Tar Hotel Friday October 2 8 to 1 
Price $2.00 per person (students $1.00 -must show ID's) 
Free /PEED lEADING Lessons! 
TODAY 

4,6& 8PM. HCIJDAY ~~~ 
U.S. 31 NORTH AT TOLLWAY 
. 8 
E~~e111~ REAiliNG DYNAMICS 
·­



Reflections
THE OBSERVER 

-on Father McGrath
An Independent ~~tudent Newspaper 

Junior Kerry Durr, also discussed the idea of SMC's identity. She GLEN S..CORSO, Editor GAETANO M. De SAPIO, Publisher 
:.!it "The aim of this institution(SMC) is education and good education, not the perpetuation of a meaningless "name" of our own. We need a president who will look ahead to this aim and not sit with his nose in the money bag contemplating higher ways to pad
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

our tuition bills which giving us less." '-----------------------------------------~.-1 Another sophomore, Marilyn Stark, expressed the same feelings: 
PRINCETCl~N PLAN 

For the moment, the franchise is not ours. Legititation, procrastination, simple ob­stinance -whatever the reason, eighteen-year-aids, and hence most undergraduate college students will be unable to vote in this election which means so much to them. That much is settled. 
What hasn't been settled is the role that students will play this year. What hasn't been settled, too, is the degree of commitment the student body of this University really has. 
There seemed to be plenty of commitment last spring during the strike. There was commitment to close classes, a commitment to set up all sorts of jock alternative courses, and a commitment to go home. Today, this student body has an opportunity to make an unprecendented commitment to the ideas in which they believe. 
The Princeton Plan was a good plan when it was formulated at Princeton last April. It was a good one when it was proposed at the strike meeting last year. And it will be a good one next year and the year after that, when other crucial offices are in question. In fact, the whole validity of the Princeton Plan rests on the hope that it will indeed be proposed next year and the year after, for _i! must be more than a sop to a mildly insurgent student 
body. It must be a living, continuous, viable thing. · 
But the Princeton Plan faces formidable obstacles. It will take fifty per cent of the entire student body plus fifty per cent of the entire faculty to pass. An abstention is, in effect, a no vote. 
Arguments have been marshalled against the plan. They are not substantial arguments, but when they have been repeated often enough people begin to believe them. 
There are those who argue that people would take advantage of the proposed recess to vacation, as they took advantage of the strike. But examination of the proposal shows, that no class time would be lost. Vacation time would not be increased -it would be reshuffled. If the proposal wins, students can use that time to work or to sleep. If the proposal loses, no such choice would exist. 
There are those who argue that students, were they permitted to substitute cam­

paigning for class time, would have an unfair advantage over steelworkers, doctors of medicine, barkeepers and other employed people who can take no such vacation. Such an advantage, however, is neatlv counteracted bv the vote we do not have. . 
The most sophistic -and the rilost esoteric -argument says that the move will po­liticize the university. It will, and it's high time the University becomes politicized. That is the nature of an election in a free society -things become politicized. It's a healthy politicalization, though. It's a politicalization that involves free thought and free speech and free choice, instead of the politicalization that kills a grad student at the University of Wisconsin or four kids at Kent State. 
The final argument, though, has no answer. That's the argument that says that we're all too hung over from the night before to vote on the referendum or thatwe're unable to vote because we don't have time, or we don't want to bother because the damn thing isn't going to pass anyway. That's the argument of the apathetic and the fool, and apathetics · and fools are notoriously impervious to reasonable arguments. 
THE OBSERVER, then, strongly urges you to get over to the registrar's office before the polls close at five today, and cast a YES vote on the Princeton Plan. 

Executive Editor: John Knorr Managing Editor: Bill Carter Editorial page Editor: T.C. Treanor 
News Editor: Ed Ellis Features Editor: Dave Lammers Sports Editor: Terry Shields 
5MC News Editor: Jeanne jSweeney 
jAssociate Editors: Dave ,Stauffer, sue Bury 
Night Editors: John Abowd, 
T.C.Treanor Layout Design: John Abowd 
Layout: Dan lei V ., L. Emmet Ballantine, Rich Maggo 
Headlines: Daniel V., Rich Maggi 
Night Controller: Jim McGrath 
The opinions expressed in the editorials, news analyses, and columns of The Observer are solely the opinions of the authors and editor.; of The Observer and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administrations, faculty, or· 
sturlen t oorlie~. 

"I would like to see a president who is not totally obsessed with the idea that St. Mary's retain an identity separate from Notre Dame. This proposition is, in my opinion, definitely absurd." 
Mary McDonough, senior, said, "The new president of SMC must possess the proper insight and understanding to realize the precarious future of a small Catholic girls' college. He must implement closer cooperation with Notre Dame, yet he must have a vision of the uniqueness of Saint Mary's which is necessary for survival and work toward the fulfillment of this goal." 
Ann Marie Tracy, who is on the search committee interviewing prospective new presidents, feels there are three main areas to be considered. 
She hopes the new president will be an educator first. Although the president will have to be an efficient administrator, he must have a true insight into the idea of academic reform. 
Secondly, the next president must share Msgr. McGrath's awareness of the uniqueness of each student and of each student's problems. 
And co-education? Ann Marie feels, "He must be willing to cooperate with Notre Dame in the way most beneficial to St. Mary's . . . There should be an end to duplication of functions by the two schools; not merger of departments, but reorganization so that the areas of concentration of the separatt: departments are complementary.. .There should he much better coordination of the administrative structures of the two institutions." 
Msgr. McGrath often reiterated his belief that St. Mary's should not merge completely with Notre Dame but retain its identity. According to Ann Marie, this focus will continue. 
l\fsgr. McGrath rarely sang the praises of St. Mary's to S.MC students, but he was proud of the school, its people, and its progress. At the funeral, a cousin of the monsignor's told Ann Marie that Father McGrath was really excited about the changes taking place on campus, and the growing interest and aliveness of the students. This is the spi:it he envisioned for St. Mary's. 
There weren't a great number of student who knew Monsignor McGrath personally. Almost everyone remembers his slight smile, or seeing him walk Redmond, his Kerry Blue Terrier. But few actually came into close contact with him. 
Ann Marie Tracy, SMC Student Body President, first worked with Msgr. McGrath after her election to office last spring. She remembers him as a hard person to get to know, but one whom you always felt you could approach about an important problem. 
Her most vivid memories of him center around the Strike activities. She recalls that his attitude was one of awareness~f both the majority and the minority of the students, as well as the views of the faculty and administrative personnel. "He was really excited about the Communiversity and the academic atmosphere which arose during the strike " Ann Marie said. But he was always hesistant about closing the college because he knew the right to attend classes had to be protected. 
She continued, "Looking in retrospect, Msgr. McGrath was truly an educator. He seemed to sec the student as a whole person, each with individual worth." He was a ware that the students have an active role to play and should take their role seriously. 
He recognized th..: triviality in many of the old rules of the College. Once, shortly after assuming the presidency of St. Mary's, 
• he was eating dinner with several students. While he was lighting a cigarette after the meal, one of the girls quipped that it must be nice to have power so that you could smoke. (A.t that time there was a prohibition against any SMC student smoking on campus.) His first response was, ·'Well, if you want to be able to smoke 9n campus, what do you intend to do about it?" 
As Ann Marie stated, "He took you as seriously as you took yourself. If you were honest he \¥OU!d react to you in an open and honest way.'' You had to earn his trust by responsibility in thought and action. "He recognized that each student had to be an integrated, whole individual" and he wanted us to move toward this goaL . 
The Office of Intercultural Affairs which he established and his efforts in the area of minority recruitment are prime examples of Msgr. McGrath's insight. He realized that St. Mary's should not be an isolated entity, protected from the tensions, issues, and thought of the wortd. 
In what direction was Msgr. McGrath leading St. Mary's? Ann Marie feels that he was attempting to make SMC a ·'uniquely ~rogressiv,~ Catholic liberal arts college". 
Senior Sue Keres felt that administrative changed deserve top priority for the new president: ''Ideally, I would choose a layman (•cligious denomination considered secondarily important) whose business acumen and sincere interest in student aims and rights could (and MUST) pull this school together in terms of a working community of responsible administration, enthusiastic faculty, and activated students. We need a complete re-evaluation of the role of the administration in our communal atmosphere, and this MUST be accomplished simultaneously with the choice of a new president." 
Chris Hayward, a sophomore, was concerned with future ND-SMC relations: ''Ideally, it would be best to expand the co-ex system, avoid duplication in the respective departments of the two schools, and improve the educational system, utilizing the best aspects of both campuses. The importance of preserving SMC's "identity'' seems over-emphasized. The stress should be placed in improving the education on both campuses as much as we can, using the things we 
have." 
----~ ---~ -----~ ---------------~ 
THE OBSER.fJDt

friday October 2. 1970 Page 5 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
Nicodemus revisited
.. . ..,. 
According to an ancient story, a man rehabilitation, provided that the into the inner self where he might be 
had been really tripping badly, they say,
named Nicodemus once came to Jesus by re'habilitators will open their shops for marooned forever, without ticket or 
he would have lacked the initiative to call
night in search of the way of salvation. business at three o'clock in the morning? passport for the return trip of the mind. 
for help. 

The Lord said to him, "You must be born Or if they refuse, or he refuses, what So he asked me, as someone he trusted, 
Perhaps so; but during the battle for
again." It was a good answer, well then? Shol'ld you ring up a constable, to talk to him, to keep his mind busy 
that boy's mind -as it seemed
expressed, I think, and I've repeated it a send messages to his mother, or lead him, · with the ho-hum trivia of the rat race in 
melodramatically to be-I felt lik:e a
few times myself. But I wonder how the bound and gagged, to the nearest order to keep his expanding 
midget wrestling with monsters on the
wisdom of Jesus would have handles the hospital? Maybe you should send him off 
consciousness from foundering among the 
last, lonely shore of the pre-historic
problems of the young Nicodemuses of into the darkness, to beg the eleven 
breakers of illusion. For two and a half 
world. I hoped then never to feel such
the Now Generation who come by, either dollars at somebody else's door. 
hours, I chattered frantically, seemingly 
aloneness again. 
at night or in the early hours of the "What must I do to be saved?" cried! 
his only link with the world called real. 
But of course I have fels such aloneness 
morning, to knock on an open door and the original Nicodemus. The answer, as it 
Occasionally he interrupted, to tell me 
since then, and will continue to do so, for 
to ask for help with problems that have is recorded, is too transcendent to be of 
the room was swarming with 
there have been other experiences with
little to do with the inheritance 
daily use. 
cockroaches, as indeed it may have been, 
kids on drugs on this campus, and there 
of ma-nsions in the kingdoms beyond the or to indicate that he was viewing the 
will be more this year. No fully
sky. · scene in triplicate. Once, he lifted his 
accredited human being would not want
What would He have said -what 

hands to describe his fingers as tipped 
to be with them, if the experience blows 
am 1 to say -to the young heroin addict 
with fire, so that they must have 
up in their faces. who comes in, suffering a bloody sweat appeared to him life burning candelabra 
Anyway, a priest ordained in celibacy
for the need of a "fix"? All he wants of 
semi-circling his head with tiaras of light. 
should be an expert in the experience of 
you is eleven dollars to relieve this night's 
But he forbid me to ask questions about 
aloneness, that solitary time of the hears 
agony. In the morning, he assures you, he 
his phantasmagoria, lest his detachment 
when it s~ems like it has always been
will turn himself over to doctors for 
from it be destroyed; and I was in no 
three o'clock in the morning in the depth 
therapy and healing. Eleven dollars is a mood to disobey. 
of the soul. 
cheap price to pay to relieve the anguish 
At five thirty, his mind was sufficiently 
And at least this year, there will be
of a kid on the near edge of panic as he 
in control of itself for him to risk 
Tom Tollaksen's Drug Information
stands there with his raw nerve ends 
returning to his own hall. I promised I 
Center to furnish answers to anxious
beginning to twitch, as though he were 
would leave my door unlocked in case I 
clergyment and to the young
housing snake pits under the surface of 
was again needed to prvent his entry into
I remember another time when a Nicodemuses who wander about cto the
his skin. You ask yourself, is it a real act 
a psychodelic world whose outer beauty, 
young Nicodemuses who wander about
fellow came in at three o'clock in the

of friendship and mercy to make 
when it appeared without horror, was 
the campus at night, seeking the terms of
morning. He had dropped acid, he said, at

purchases in the drug market on this 
only a mask, he feared, for the darkness 
their temporal salvation. No drug center
eleven thirty, and now he was having a

youngster's behalf, in order to stalemate 
that lies at the heart of life.
'"bad trip." · · can furnish them with insights matching 
temporarily the horror which threatens to 
This boy was only badly frightened, I
He was afraid of losing his hold on the of Jesus Christ. Nevertheless, for
overwhelm the beauty of his young mind 
am told by the campus initiates in the 
·and the gentleness of his heart? Or should , reality; of slipping off on a far journey some of them, it will provide an 
arcana of d~gs. If --he 
opportunity like being born again. 
you insist on his instant attempt at 
JOHN STUPP 
CINEMA '71 :A PREVIEW 
"Everything leads me to believe diffused but rather, come to rest The celebrated short film Un 
psychology of characters, its re­
negative aspects of mind ex­
that there is a certain point in in the realm of the individual Chien Andalou which was made 
fusal to engage in logical dis­
ploration come to the surface in 
the life of the spirit at which life unconscious and ultimately the by Bunuel and Salvadore Dali in analytical com­
course or 
these works, yet marked, and 
. and death, the real and the collective unconscious. 1928 will also be presented. mentary, is as ideally suited to 
crafted by a master -Roman
imagined, the past and the fu-This task is impossible. It can-About the film Bunuel had this 
film as to the narrative..." Both 
Polanski.
not be done. It is the work of a to say, " ...when we were work­

of Robbe-Grillet's films will be
lure, the communicable and the lifetime. True. We merely mean ing on the script we had only Science fiction. What about
here in the series.
incommunicable, the exalted to express these dimensions in a one rule: keep only the pictures internal science fiction -Alpha· and the lowly, cease to be seen narrow field -namely, the cine-that we cannot explain ration­ville and Peter Watkin's The as contradictory." rna. The films have for the most ally..." The dimensions of ob-Nullum unquam existitit mag­Gladiators may be the answer. In -Andre Breton part been selected with this in jective art will also be touched num ingenium sine aliqua de­Alphaville, Godard takes us on a 
This brief paragraph is taken mind. Whether the transcen-upon. Bruce Morrissette com­mentia. There never was great journey into the soul and the from the Second Manifesto of dence can be glimpsed through ments, "Those who have seen genius without some madness. struggle of the human con­Su"ealism and is probably an sexuality (Pasolini's Teorema) or Robbe-Grillet's films, Last Year Here the focus is on the films of science. The Gladiators was the accurate appraisal of the energy through a tension which arises at Marienbad and L 1mmortelle Roman Polanski. Repulsion and winner of the Grand Prize at the behind Cinema '71. A human from the juxtaposition of poli-or who have read their scenarios, Cul-de-Sac take the viewer into International Festival of Science can only hope to receive visions tics and art (Godard's Sympathy can verify tl;le a~sertion that the world of the s.chizophrenic Fiction Films, Trieste. and intimations of this transcen-for the Devil), this we shall most of their author's novelistic the world of the psychotic. The series starts this weekend, dence in small doses, for as . discover. What about the poetic techniques recur, in more or less Here, as Huxley describes them, with Sympathy for the Devil Huxley points out, " ...the dimensions of visual perceptions modified form, as cinematic " ...they pass most of their playing at Washington Hall, Sat­literature of religious experience --::__ !9 explore these rt>gions we structures. The whole realm of times neither on earth, nor ·in urday and Sunday, 2 & 8 p.m. abounds in references to the are brings Cocteau's Orpheu;,, the relationship between the heaven, nor even in hell, but in a Season passes are available at the pains and terrors overwhelming Blood ofa Poet and the fantasy, cinema and the novel remains gray shadowy world of phan­door. those who have come, too sud-Beauty and the Beast. " .. .in largely open to investigation. toms and unrealities..." The denly, face to face with some The Blood of a Poet I tried to The art of Robbe-Grillet, with manifestation of the Mysterium film poetry the way the William-its objectification of mental In the tradition of leather at: Tremendum .. . " Our aim then, son brothers film the bottom of images, its use of psychic chron-7'r. n..-+~nr 7r.t~. while perhaps related to the the sea. I let down the diver's ology, its development of "ob-')l.l.~ (.\.4 ~ 'JLl. tJ general aims of surrealism per-bell deep inside me, like the jectal" sequences or series haps related distantly to the diver's bell they let down deep related formally and function-. 188 S. Main Street 
more rigorous demands of mysti-~in~t:o~t~h~e~s~ea~·~·~·.,"H..,Hr**'ll~~a~ll~y~to~p~lo~t~a~n~d·t~o~th;e'r;im~pl~ic;i~t~ifnirir~~linWt*iftiS~o~u*th~B~e·n~d~ln;d~·~4~6~6~0~1~~*i~i*iini~~
cism, is to create from week to ,. week, artistic experiences which may cause one to momentarily come to grips with the outer regions of the unconscious. 
The aim of the series is not 
Johnny Rivers 
religious. Rather it is an explora­tion of psychological and visual proportions. Where it will lead, no one is certain. Each inch­
and 

vidual is his own pilot as it were, the course depends on the ac­cumulation of unique percep­
Slta Na Na 
tions, perceptions that by defini­tion cannot be shared or 
Frye boots, leather vests, hats, etc. at: 
Leather Ltd. 

118 S. Main Street South Bend, Ind. 46601 
Saturday, Oct. 10, 8:00 in the A.C.C. 
Tickets: $5.00, $4.00, $2.00 on sale at: Bookstore, Student Union Ticket Office (open 4-6 p.m.) and Dining Halls, Tues., Wed. & Thurs. 
presented by Student Union Social Commission & A. C C 
THB OBUilfiM Friday October 2, 1970 
Smiling feet...mean happy toe:s at: 
Leather Ltd. 
118 S. Main Street 

Michael's 
HAIR STYLING FOR MEN 
18381 Edison Rd. 
(Y. mile east of A.C.C.) Ph. 272-7222 Appointments if Desired 
AWARD WINNING STYLISTS 
STANDARD HAIRCUTS-HAIR SIT .RAZOR CUTS-HAIR .STRAIGHTENING 

Hippy quits commercial 
(Continued from page 1) triends in the troupe told him signed to show the hippies lit­
"''Besides, Hartke isn't against they also were disgusted by the tering roadside rest areas. Also, 
young people, so why should I commercial but stayed on be-according to Koch, the hippies 
be against him?" . cause "they need the bread real were filmed smoking fake mari­
"lt just isn't the sort of thing bad." juana and drinking real wine. 
I want to be involved in," Koch Co-star with the hippies was Koch said the group was told 
observed later, as he stood along their car, a 1962 Chevrolet several times that the commer­
U.S. 41 in south Lake County painted with gaudy red, white cia! would end with a tr;ing to hitch a ride back to , and blue stars and stripes. chase-and-arrest scene involving Chicago. Several scenes, ob~erved by a an Indiana state trooper. But 
_,_ Koch said-several of his reporter, apparently were de-that scene apparently was omit-In the tradition of leather at: ted at the last minute. ~ The film attracted much at­
'1r. nttt11rnr ~ tu. tention from travelers and resi­
1Jj

~~" "-~~ dents in the area. Several near 118 S. Main Street auto and truck collisions were observed during the filming.
South Bend, Ind. 46601 
• 

FridayOctober 2, 1970 
7118 OBS£Rf1Eit 
Page7 

. r::r-~=::===::::==============·===·=====:=·=t:~=~=~:~=~=~=~=~=~::==~=~===~=:=~===~·==:=~=~=~:==~=·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·!·:·=~=·=·=·=·=·=·=···=·····=·w
No SMC'ers in the Rock 111! MAIN CHURCH 1~11 
Saint Mary's College's recent any facilities connected with it pussible. ~;~; SUNDAY MASSES 1;11 request that they be allowed to When asked why the Presi­Father Wilson added, on a :::; . -·-:::: use the Rockne Memorial facili­dent's Council specifically more pragmatic level, that the :::; 5:15p.m. Sat. Fr. Robert Grift-m, C.S.C. ~::i 
ties was denied. limited the use of the Memorial facilities are often being excer­
S.M.C. representatives to Notre Dame students, Father cised to their fullest; and per­brought the request before the Wilson said that neither the mitting a few hundred more to 
I ~:1!~:i.~:;~b DePuy; !~1~!ii!::~· ~ 
university business manager, Fr. Rockne Memorial nor the A.C.C. use them would jeopardize the 
Jerome Wilson. He directed their had ava;'.able space that could avauaouuy or the facilities for ...... 11:00 a.m. Sun. Fr. John Dunne, C.S.C. [:[~.. attention to the ruling of the accommodate S.M.C.. He ex­Notre Dame students. 12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. William Toohey, c.s.cJ,:i~
iJ 

plainea tnat to prepare for the last spring. The council con­
President's Council which met S.M.C. students, new and separ­

~~;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;~;::;;;;;&;:;:;:;:;;;;;;;;;;;.;-:;:::;;.;;;:::;;_:;::::.:».:::::;::.:;:::::;::::::::::.:::::!i!.::::x:::::x:.::::.:~:::J 
vened to consider a similar pro­ate locker rooms would -have to 
The Notre Dame
be built; and this, he said, is notposal by the Graduate Student 

·

r~!.······~~~················....···~tl
Union. The union asked that 
: fP · -Feature Times-~~. I
OPERA STAR TO APPEAR 
Glee Club

female graduate students be per­
• o,," ~" 1:453:45 t
NOW
mitted to make use of the 
: OaHy 73j 5:45 7:45 ~~
A recital by noted operaRockne Memorial. The council 

• 1,3o -7301 aad 9:45 t
star, tenor soloist and lecturer presentsconcluded that "equal oppor­James Schwabacher will be pre-"An Evening of Music" 

I THE MOST SAVAGE FILM-. I
tunity be given all Notre Dame sented at 8:15 p.m. Thursday 
. .
. ----.

female students." 
(Oct. 8) in the University of Fall Concert 

Lockers were then built over Notre Dame's Memorial Library 
: IN HISTORY! : 
the summer solely for female Auditorium. H 11 
·I I
The order was massacre, and good soldiersSchwabacher's appearance in Washinqton a .
graduate students and faculty. 
I follow orders. These soldiers were the best. Ia sever-part song recital is spon-Friday 8:15pmThe women are now able to use sored by the department of mu-Admission Freeall of the facilities with no 
special times or priviledges at­sic. The veteran of 14 operatic 'rn!fflEii:§~~;~~r 
i ·''SOL_DIER BI.U£'' i
roles with the San Francisco · ·:::tached. During a physical educa­

I starring CANDICE BERGEN-PETER STRAUSS' I
Opera Company will sing selec­

tion course they would, how­tions from Handel Schubert Custom-hand made leather 
ever, be prevented from usinl! Berlioz and Poulenc.' ' 
goods at: 

'······················~···~.!.•~•~;~~~~····~ 
Open Proof of -· 
G.S.U. neutral on recess 
12:45 Age Required
Leather Ltd. 
you can affect the decision is A plea for all Graduate Stu­through your vote." 

dent Union members to parti­The referendum will begin at 
cipate in today's referendum on 118 S. Main Street
8 a.m. on the second floor of the 

the Princeton Plan was made Administration Building and South Bend, Ind. 46601yesterday afternoon by G.S.U. 
continue through 6 p.m. this President Bill Lorimer. 


".,.
...,.....~,.,.t.i4~.

The union has been· working to "insure the equitableness" of 
f'EAtURE TIMES 

the referendum in its presenta­
1:45-3:45-5:45 tion and administration said 1 
' ... ' ·'"·
7:45-9:45 
........

Lorimer. The G.S.U. has not· taken an official stand on the issue. 
''JOE'' 
"It's Always leather Weather" at: 
"THE U.S. CUSTOMS BUREAU BARRED IT AS OBSCENE! READERS FOUND IT SHOCKING AND SCANDALOUS! AND NOW, FOR ANYONE-OVER 17, IT IS AMOVIE!"-TIM£MAGAZINE 

lni'P•'IIP~f ~uf/1/fJIIOfir. 
ever made in 
HOLLYWOOD••• 
A HARRY NOV,,K PRESENTATION STARRING 

101011 JAY EIIIIIS 
AS 
CLEOPITII DIXIE 1111111 
open daily 1:30 P.)1. 
NOW 
• 
at 2:00, 5:15, 8:30 
PLUS "MEDIUM COOL" 7:40 (only) "The VirginNEXT D. H. Lawrence and the Gy sy" . 
IS MOVING AROUND 
THE 
CORNER! 
Now! 
SHUBERT 
THEATRE 
22W.MONROE 
CE 6-8240 THRU SAT., 
OCT. 17th 
Tlckete Available et Box Office
BLACKSTONE Clla,ed u,. Are Pl•yl,..
THEATRE 
in a Concert Dance
60E. BALBO 
CE 6·8240 FROM TUES., 
Friday, Oct. 2, 8:30-11:30, ·$1.00 . 
OCT. 20th 
Ticket• Avelleble br Meil 
SIICCofteeH...e
Specl•l Conalderatlon lor Groupe Phone Mart Merlin 
141 


THB OBJIRIIM 

-Irish favored to retain megaphone 
Kickoff is at I :30 p.m., EST. ·team which some observers al­tability. Notre Dame is noted Site is Spartan Stadium in East ready are saying may be one of No. 3 nationally. State is out of Lansing. Crowd is an assured the Irish's best in many years sight. sellout of 76,000 plus. Matched against a sputtering Spartan crew Notre Dame absolutely are an undefeated Notre Dame which is struggling for respec-crushed two Big Ten opponents 

in its first engagements this fall­-Northwestern 35-14 and Pur­due, usually a Notre Dame nemesis, 48-0. ~tate, meantime, lost to a lightly regarded Wash­. ington team 42-16 and defeated
The Irish E}'e 
an equally untouted Washington State club 28-14. Some comparative statistics help emphasize the disparity be­IRISH ITEM-If you get the chance, pick up a copy of Street and 


tween the teams: Smith's Backetball Yearbook. None other than Austin Carr of the 
.....The Irish averaged 545 Fighting Irish is pictured on the cover and there is a large feature 
yards total offense in their two story on the high scoring guard entitled "Just one of the Boys in the 
games to State's 360. Basement". The story is a close up look at the Irish captain by Jim . . . . .They have four backs O'Brian, a very fine sportswriter from the New York Post. Austin is 
with more than 1 00 yards rushing picked as the most outstanding player in the country and if his totals to zero for State. performance this season equals that of last year there will be few .....They have one super people that will argue. 
receiver, Tom Gatewood, who After a weekend of upsets and a great deal of celebrating the has caught more passes ( 19) than choices for last Saturday equaled those of the previous week. State's two top hands put to­Twenty-two of thirty has been the mark for both weekends. gether. Spartans Gordon The top thirty games for this weekend appear to have these Bowdell and Eric Allen have results: eight each. Notre Dame over Michigan State: Thanksgiving is in order to Ara .....Joe Theismann, the Irish and company for saving me from the depths of St. Joe's lake last senior quarterback, is rated as weekend. If the Irish don't b~eak that 21 year jinx at East Lansing one of the great field generals in then a dip in the Red Cedar River (in E. Lansing) may be in order. the college game today and a West Virginia over Indiana: What was previously going to be a big front and center candidate for test for the Mountaineers looks more IU<:e an Emil T. quiz after All-America and the Keisman California's destruction of IU last week. Trophy. His Spartan rival, junior Mississippi over Alabama: This is a top TV attraction and it may college transfer Mike Rasmussen, well turn into a football fans version of The Ar.:.:hie Comedy Hour. is a promising newcomer to ma­The Rebels should gain a measure of revenge for last year's defeat in jor college ball who will be the fourth qnarter. playing just his third Michigan Texas over UCLA: After more close calls than "The Perils of State game this Saturday. Pauline," the Bruins will finally taste defeat. The Longhorns should Notre Dame has all the stark roll up another impres~ive score in Austin. facts and figures on its side and · Stanford over _Purdue: The Boilermakers wer1!n't really as bad as undoubtedly will be heavily fa­
they looked in The Stadium. Jim Plunkett will have enough to get vored in this 36th installment of by the Boilers but he and his friends better not be looking ahead to the storied series which began in next week's match with USC' 
1897. The South Jjend collegians Nebraska over Minnesota: The Huskers should win in a tough, lead 19-15-l in the set, the tie hard hitting ball game. The Gophers have not bt:en living up to their being the classic I0-1 0 standoff pre-season billing but NU certainly has. 
in 1966. 
Penn State over Wisconsin: The Mount Nits will start a new win About all State seems to have 

streak but it won't be in their traditional runaway fashion. 
going for it is a bit of tradition. 
Air Force over Colorado State: After their big win over Missouri Underdog Spartan teams have the Falcons should be flying high. 
upset favored Notre Dame jug­Tennessee over Army: The Cadets will find the going tough this gernauts before and have had week. Next week there will simply be no going for the West Pointers. 
remarkable fortune on their 
UPSET OF THE WEEK home field. The last time Notre 
Kansas State over Colorado: Lynn Dickey can get back in Dame scored a victory at East contention for the Keisman Trophy if he can get his Purple Wildcats Lansing was in 1949. Since then to surprise the Buffalo. Colorado may have left their game with Penn there have been eight SpartanState on the field. 
victories and one tie recorded in 
In the other top attractions the results will be: Pitt over Kent Spartan Stadium. 
State, Illinois over Syracuse, Michigan to outscore Texas A&M, This will be Notre Dame's 
Georgia Tech over Clemson, Florida over Florida State, Georgia over 
first game on artificial turf. Mississippi State, Miami (Fla.) over Maryland, LSU over Baylor, 
"They have so much person­

" Missouri over Oklahoma State, Ohio State to trounce Duke, Arizona nel. They're just so deep and State over Wyoming, Boston College over VMI, North Carolina over 
powerful. They haven't an ap­Vanderbilt, Washington over Navy, Auburn over Kentucky, parent weakness. 
Northwestern over Southern Methodist, Kansas over New Mexico, "Notre Dame have so manySan Diego State over Brigham Young California over Rice, and big linemen. I don't know where Southern Cal over Oregon State. 
they get them all but they sure
season percentage . 7 50
_Last _week 22 of 30 

t==::::::::::::::::::::::::8::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::=::::::::::::::::~:*::;:·(:-:·:~::::c::::::~~~!:~:!·!·!·;·;·;:;·r·~:m~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::1 
~~ Radio Distributing ~ll 
~ I 
~l~ Fantastic Truck load Sale ~ll 
M N 
llll limited Tinle 2 Days Only il 
111~ Oct. ~~.3 ONlY [*.ll~ ELECTRO VOICE STEREO PRODUCTS :1~ 
Ul, TO 50% 1082 FM STEREO .·:·:.:::
Model AM-FM SYSTEM ;:;: This basic Aristocrat system, the :::: 
1082, is comprised of the receiver, the ::;: speakers, all required connecting leads, ll.ll. 11nd deluxe instruction booklet. Every­
thing you need to receive AM, FM or FM 
U 
Stereo broadciiSts is included, plus the ;.;. capacity to add other external sources, :::: such as a record changer or tape deck at lljl any time. The entire system is supplied ·:·: 

... 
=a~. single carton, ready to plug in and ~~~\ 
MFG. SUG. RETAIL $119.95. NOW .1111 RADIO DISTRIBUTING CO. 95 
$S4. ::::: 

~~: 1212 High Street 288-~66 -~~~ 
i::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::;:::::::;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;;:;;;::::::::;:::;;;;;;;:::;;;:::::::::::::i;i;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::;:::::;:;:;:;:::::::;:;:;~:;:;:::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::~ 
don't come trom St. Mary's."­ington State resulted in seven 
(St. Mary's is a girls' school losses of ball possession. Such 
across the road from Notre ineptness would be death against 
Dame.) a team such as Notre Dame. 
"Ohio State is the only team State lost another defensive in the Big Ten that could come down linemen for the season this close to matching personnel with week when sophomore Jerry 
Notre Dame. Under current Martin, younger brother of se­
rules, almost any game between nior defensive end Wilt Martin 
a Big Ten earn and Notre Dame underwent knee surgery. 
will be a mismatch . Duane McLaughlin, a 6-2, 
"I've been looking at the 235-pound junior from Auburn Notre Dame-Purdue film and I Heights, Mich., probably will get _c[on't think I've ever seen a Big · his first starting shot at a front · line post on defense. He did well 
Ten team so dominated. 
against Washington State. 
"Tom Gatewood could be the 

best receiver in the country. Joe Two-Brads~ MeLee and Van­
Theismann is a really great Pelt,. own some of the prize 
quarterback. statistics in the Spartan camp. 
"But the game has been MeLee, junior roverback from scheduled and we'll play it." Uniontown, Pa., now has picked 
Theismann has passed 43 ·off four passes in two games and times and completed 24 times run them back a total of 96 for a .551 percentage. His yards, one for a touchdown. He pitches have netted 404 yards got two in each game thus far. and four touchdowns and only VanPelt just missed one against one has been intercepted. Washington but intercepted 
If you want to score on the three against Washington State. Irish apparently the second Seven sophomores are pro­
period is the time to do it. The bable starters against Notre 
only points rung up by oppo­Dame and eight others are on 
nents (14 by Northwestern) the second units. 
<;arne in the second stanza. 
The Irish won 42-28 at South 

A Spartan problem will be Bend last fall. It was the first 
trying to stop everyone at once score of more than 40 points 
in the Notre Dame offensive ever rolled up on a Duffy 
backfield. All three regulars Daugherty-coached team. 
other than Theismann are run­State pulled a major upset 
ning stars. Right halfback Dennis over Notre Dame in 1968 in 
Allan has netted 134 yards for a Spartan Stadium when it beat an 
4.1 average per carry, left half Irish team 21-17 which lost only Ed Gulyas has 126 for 5.0 and one other game all season (37-22 
fullback Bill Barz had lO I for to Purdue) and boasted such 
4.5. The newest Irish sensation is stars as Terry Hanratty, Jim sophomore halfback Larry Park­
Seymour, George Kunz and Bob er. He has toted the ball just six 
Gladieux. State was 5-5 on the year.
times for an eye-popping I 07 
yards, including a 63-yard touch­

The teams will vie for posses­down jaunt against Purdue. He 
sion of the Megaphone Trophy, could get a starting shot this a battered cheerleader's horn week. which was put up for the game Three Notre Dame starters are 
by the Notre Dame and Michi­Michigan products. They are 
gan State Alumni Clubs of De­sophomore defensive tackle Greg 
troit in 1949. State has won it Marx from Detroit, and defen­
15 times and Notre Dame five. sive halfbacks Clarence Ellis of 
Allan tied for.
Grand Rapids and Ralph Ste­
paniak of Alpena. Both the lat­
scorin1 lead
ter are juniors. 

"There were a few encour­INDIANAPOLIS (UPI) 
aging things in the Washington Notre Dame's Denny Allan and 
State game. Our pass defense Rick Garrard of Wabash :.hare 
was a bit better and some of our the early lead for the 1970 
young players showed improve­Indiana college football scoring 
ment. But I'm very disturbed by crown. 
our inability to hold onto the Each has 24 points on 4 
ball and I'm alarmed personnel-­touchdowns. Garrard scored all 
wise. I don't know what we'll do his points in Wabash's season 
for front linemen on defense. opener at Hanover while Allan, 
Major concentration in prac­a senior halfback, scored three 
tice this week was on the matter times at Northwestern. 
of hanging onto the balL Eight Five others were tied for third 
Spartan fumbles against Wash-place with 18 points apiece ­
Notre Dames Tom Gatewood, Doug Maple of DePauw, Mike Bailey of Franklin, and Mike Reardon and Neil Palmer of Val­
M.S.U. 
paraiso.Notre Dame's busy place­kicker Scott Hempel was eirnth \\•ith 17 ooints.
TIX ON SALE 
Custom leather belts, purses, 
watchbands, skirts, sandals, etc., at: 
TODAY 
4:00-I.-GO 
Leather Ltd. 
STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 

118 S. Main Street 3rd floor 
South Bend, Ind. 46601 LaFortune Center 





