
Academic Council passes proposal, 
Calls for Oct. 2 referendum 
by Cliff Wintrode the extreme of taking "vindi­years here, and I am proud of side the classroom.
A complete text of the
Associate Editor 
cative reprisals" for further ab­the Academic Council," he Walsh said the Council was The Academic Council met Academic Council statement ap­
sences was seen as "morally added. responsive to the students "cases 
yesterday in special session and pears on page 6. insensitive" by the Council. 
Vice-President for Academic of conscience, which are verymade academic provisions for 
The reaction to the Council's Affairs Father John Walsh said well motivated and show greatstudents wanting to concentrate have" the option of giving decisions was jubilant at Strike the student presentation before concern" and the Council made on political activities, but urged students wishing to discontinue headquarters, but Steve Preston, the Council was "rational, arti­the decision "willingly."that the provisions be applicable 
either the letter grade they now the organizer of the drive for cualte, with no belligerency or Neither Father Walsh noronly to those students partici­hold or a pass-fail grade. 
academic compensation,cau­hostility, and politely and cour­Steve Preston voiced concern pating in organized activities. This provision is in effect for tioned against viewing the Coun­teously presented the way intell­over the possibility that yester­The Academic Council all undergraduate courses, both cil's action as a "victory" for the igent people should present day's actions was a first step for"strongly urged" that the provi­elective and non-elective, where 
striking students. proposals." the university toward the statussions be "allowed," but the student is not on academic
any A group of students, represen­
"We showed the Council that of a Latin American university,probation.
student complaints concerning we were ready to and wanted to ting several of the strike activi­which is a part of the politicalthe implementation of these 
The Council also authorized assume the responsibility for our ties, had spoken earlier yes· process in those countries. 
provisions should be taken to for this semester only the use of educational actions," he said. terday to the Board to convinct "The Latin American univer­
the Academic Grievances Board. the grade W (Withdrew) in "I think this is my most the members that l!ducational 
(Continued on page 6)

The Council also called for a situations where the student is important moment in my four activities were taking place out-general faculty and student not failing but where further referendum Oct. 2 on the absences occur and in the question of calling a recess a judgment of the professor no 
Hartke speaks to NO: 
week and a half before the "academically honest" grade can November 3 elections to allow be given. students and faculty members In those instances where the time to participate in the student has completed success­
Be there with me 
campaign. fully the majority of the work, people not to underestimate the
Hartke restated his oppostion to The recess if called would be but the professor judges the by Jan Reimers power of letters to Congressmen
United States involvement in with the understanding that the missing work to be essential the "I have been with you before or of Father Hesburgh's petil :on. 
South East Asia and urged that missed class periods would be "limited use" of the grade I you were there. Be there with students channel their political Acknowledging the unreahzed made up before the end of the (Incomplete) was authorized. me when I need you most," energies into supporting Con­potential of canvassing for first semester. The extreme of suspending requested Indiana Senator Vance gressional J,cace candidates, in­McCarthy and Kennedy in 1968, All class absences from May 4 further classes was viewed as Hartke in a speech at the Stepan cluding his own carr: oaign this Hartke stated: "Mr. Nixon, I "academically irresponsible" and
to May I I inclusive were de­Center last night. In his speech, summer and fall. commend your attention to the clared "excused absences" with "I want to end that was in Princeton movement." Noting permission to make up the work Cambodia and Vietnam now," that the House of Repesent­
by the Council. 
proclaimed the Senator, while atives is con trolled by a ~onser­For this semester, faculty 
warning that "we dare not vative coalition and that "One members in consulta lion with relapse in to silence nor plunge man dedicated to peace (Texas individual students "should violence." deepest Senator has
into "Our Yarborough) been problem is political," he noted. defe<!led," Hartke praised aca­The Senator applauded Senate demic freedom proposals which efforts to repeal the Gulf of would allow time for students
Lorimer new Tonkin Resolution which would and faculty to work for Congres­"deprive the President of any sional candidates. 
GSU Pres. legitimacy to carry on his Hartke especially appealed to actions in Indochina. Later, he women whose "elemental con­by Bro. Pat Carney acknowledged this measure as cern for human life is not primarily a psychological extinguished by the flood of
In a closely contested run-off effort as LBJ has repeatedly propaganda issuing from the
election last Friday, Bill Lorimer bt•came the second president of 
stressed his authority as Com­White House and Pentagon." mander-in-Chief. Hartke also re­The Killing of young men. and
the Craduate Student Union. ported a military sales act the slaughter of innocent Asian
Lorimer defeated two other amendment cutting off funds for villagers ... must not he allowed to
candidates Richard Hum­Cambodia, and he noted the continue. Women can and must
hrecht of Theology and Ed lsely of Economics for the post. military procurement bill which play an indespensihlc part." Since none of the candidates will appear before the Senate "I know something of the helplessness you feel," sympath­
captured a majority of the votes next month, which would cut on the first ballot, a run-off off all military expenditures for ized Hartke, whose book Tile 
bt·tween Lorimer and lsely was Cambodia within 30 days of the American Crisis in Vietnam was necessi Ia ted. bill's enactment for Laos on publicly condemned by Pres­December 31, 1970 and for ident Johnson. Hartke compared
According to the newly 
Vietnam on June 30, 1971. our "crisis of legitimacy" to
adopted constitution, the new president will take office imme­Specifically. Hartke implored Germany from 1930-1933. lie accused especially Vice-President
diately and will serve for a full students to "contnue to protest war Agnew for polarizing many
year. lie will preside at the next the by all peaceful means." meeting. Emphasizing that the '"eeting Americans who now sec their
U.S. Senator Vance Hartke of Indiana urged students in a speech 
ground between you and us is government as "exercising not
Representing the English De­last night in Stepan Center to "channel their political energies 
partment, Mr. Lorimer has been politics," the Senator urged (Continued 011 page 7)
into supporting Congressional peace candidates." 
quite active in c;.s.u. affairs this year. lie has been elected as a graduate student representative to the Student Life Council and 
Agnew blasts anti-intellectuals on campus 
also a member of the Committee for Graduate Students and WASllit\GTON (UPI)-Vice took place bet ween Agnew and "anti-intellectuals were in con­country. Forty-six of the na­
I Teaching Assistants of the local President Spiro T. Agnew was Gov. Frank Licht of Rhode trol of the campuses and until tion's state and territorial I chapter of the American Associ­reported yesterday to have as­Island, a Democrat, on the they are removed there would be governors attended the session ation of University Professors. serted heatedly that "anti­subject of violence and student no way to carry on a dialogue around a rectangular table in the 
In addition he served as intellectuals" had taken over the unrest which followed i~ixon 's with students or the faculty," White House state dining room. director of the English Depart­nation's universities and that decision to commit U.S. troops Cargo said. Gov. Albert P. Brewer also ment T A movement for higher "we have to reestablish authori­to Cambodia. The Vice President stated that departed after about three salaries and· better working con­ty on the campuses." According to Cargo, the Vice "we have to re-establish authori­hours. He said only that he had ditions earlier in the year. Agnew's outburst was related President took exception to ty on the campuses," Cargo said. to attend a rally in his home 
To fill the post of vice to newsmen by Gov. David Licht's observation that there Agnew stressed "control of what state of Alabama. Cargo told president for the coming year, Cargo of New Mexico, a Repub­was insufficient communication he described as the anti-intel­newsmen that others among the the graduates chose James II. lican who left a White House with students. Licht said it was a lectual forces," he added. governors "were not in agree­Sweetland of the llistory De­conference bet ween Preside n t "tremendous problem...being Nixon called the conference ment" withh Agnew's views, 
partment. Sweetland has heen Nixon and state governors early able to separate out the vio­last week to discuss the U.S. which he said the Vice President involved with the grad student to catch a plane. lence" from meaningful discus­thrust into Cambodia and the expressed "quite forcefully." lie organization sincr its incention Cargo reported that a "fiery sion," Cargo said. violence it touched off on streets did not identify the dissenters. (Continued on page 2) and contToversial exchange" Agnew heatedly replied that and campuses throughout the (Conti11ued on page 7) 
PAGE 2 TUESDAY, MAY 12, 1970
THE OBSERIJ£R. 

Students at rally hear priest criticize Church 


by Rich Smith 
Over j UO people heard speeches supporting the "aca­demic amnesty" proposal, the communiversity, the economic boycott, and the continuation of the student strike in a rally held yesterday afternoon in the main quad. 
Father Bill Hogan, from Chi­cago, began the program by attacking the Catholic Church, "The American Catholics are the most programmed, the most brainwashed, the most sheepish people around," Father Hogan, said in decrying the refusal of the American Catholic ruling hierarchy to join the peace movement. "The Democratic convention was successful be­cause of Cardinal Boyle, Cardi­nal Spellman, and the others who prevented the Catholic civil rights movement from joining with the peace movement." 
In attacking the dehumanizing process of war, Father Hogan said, "We all go on strike after four students at Kent State are killed. What do we think of killing four Cambodians, four Burmese, or four Nepalese, or 

wherever  the  war  will  be  in  
1974.  We  don't  think  about  
that."  

Father Hogan said that prior to the 1968 Democratic conven­tion, his church had a sign which said "No more war." He said that people asked him if his was a "Communist church." 
"Those were the words of Pope Paul VI before the United Nations in 1965," Hogan said. 
Citing Gandhi's tactics in gaining independence for India, Father Hogan said that periods are needed in which to regroup and move ahead. He said that the past weekend must not be a "cooling off period" but rather a period to regroup. 
"It's going to take a lot of organizing to stop this war. We can't stop now and let the war machine move ahead." 


COPYRIGHT 1969, T. & CO. 
CHICAGO 
715 NORTH MICijiGAN AVENUE TEL: (:312) 94-1 7500 • ZIP: 60611 
In urging students to continue the strike, Father Hogan hit at the insanity of war. "When we see Cardinal Spellman split from King, we see how insane war makes people. We are insanely using our resources to build weapons. We must maintain our sanity. Don't go to class, that's where you get screwed up. Stay close to the earth. Stay outside. Get off the campus." In conclusion, Father Hogan admonished the listeners to continue their efforts: "If we all go out, I think we could stop this war and the draft." Dave Kahn then spoke on the merits of the newly established communiversity. He explained the aims and objectives of the program as to "channel the discussion with respect to the intensified situation in the country and around the world." Kahn also urged greater stu­dent participation in the com­muniversity, saying that he did not want it to become an "elitist board." And Kahn spoke of the possibility of starting a day care center to free mothers to attend classes. Professor Julian Pleasants of the Biology Department addressed the assembly on the academic freedom proposal sub­mitted to the Academic Council yesterday. Professor Pleasants said that the past week had been "the most intense educational experi­ence in my thirty three years at Notre Dame." In warning that "the inability to respond to a crisis is the mark of a species bound for extinc­tion," Professor Pleasants said that "irreparable losses will oc­cur if this extraordinary oppor­

can a class as long as you are passing it at any time," she revealed. "Because SMC does not have a cut system, you can also cut 
Alumni Senate holds back 

agreement with Hesburgh 
by EiiEIIis 
Mr. James Cooney, Executive 
Secretary of the Notre Dame 
Alumni Association , released 
yesterday the statement agreed 
upon unanimously Saturday by 
the Alumni Board and Senate. 
Cooney said that the Senate 
did not pass the declaration of 
University President Theodore 
Hesburgh directly because they 
did not feel qualified to speak 
for the whole Alumni 
Association of 46,000 people. 
Because of this question of 
qualifications, they passed only 
the compromise resolution. 
Cooney also said that many of 
the Alumni delegates, acting as 
individuals, had signed Fr. 
Hesburgh's declaration at the 
closing of the meeting of the 
Senate. He estimated that close 
to 30 had signed the declaration 
then, and many others had 
signed in the residence halls 
during their stay at the 
University. 
The text of the AI umn i 
tunity is allowed to pass." 
"This kind of momentum 
begins to make a real university. 
We must be able to respond to 
it. Especially now when we have 
the Americaa Revolution turned 
upside down and George Ill in 
the White House," Pleasants 
said. 
Professor Alan Monkewicz of the Engineering Department pre­dicted that the academic amnes­ty proposal would be defeated 

because "it is the view of this university that education occurs at certain times of the day and in certain rooms, and that strikes and rallies deter us from our duty." 
·· (continued on page 6), 


Sweet land becomes Vice-President 
(Continued from page 1) that group for the past year. and has recently been a delegate 
In other business, the dele­to the A.A.U.P. chapter com­gates debated a motion similarmittee on women. 

to the one passed by the faculty
Appropriately enough the 

in support of Fr. Hesburgh'snew treasurer of the organiza­
position concerning recent
tion comes from the Business events surrounding the war. ItAdministration school. This post reads:is being filled by John Vaughn The Graduate Students Coun­who has been a representative of 


SMC rejects proposals 
ing absences, withdrawal of
by Ann Therese Darin 
students, or cancellation of 
SMC's Academic Affairs Com­classes by a faculty member in mittee recently rejected three deference to political activities. 

proposals on the college's in­"We rejected them for two volvement in the Indo-Chinese reasons," claimed Carol Hennin­

situation that were passed last ger, new academic affairs com­

week at a special session of the missioner. "We felt that propos­

faculty senate. 

als I and 2 were a clumsily­Members of the committee -worded way of expressing what 
defeated the proposals concern-

already exists." "You withdraw from 
class as much as you want as long as you do the work." statement is as follows: 
In opposing the proposal
The National Board of 

permitting faculty members to 
Directors and the Alumni Senate cancel classes as long as the of the Alumni Association of the objectives of the course are 

University of Notre Dame, in 

fulfilled, Miss Henninger ex­joint session, hereby commend 
plained, "It is a violation of the President, the 
academic freedom because there Administrators, the Faculty and 
could be some students who students of the University for 
want to attend classes. If the their deep moral concern at this 
professor cancels them for politi­critical moment in our nation's 
cal reasons, the student is being history, and particularly for deprived of her right to attend their constructive 
classes." implementation of that concern. 
These proposals mark the We commit ourselves, as 
first, not last ones, that the Alumni of this university, to a 
committee will consider on the heightened understanding of the 
Indo-Chinese events. They will problems of our times, and to 
also consider proposals drafted constructive efforts toward 
by the committee for Academic 
acheving peace in our day. 

Freedom, similar to those pro­Inspired by the deep spiritual posed by Dave Krashna, Notre commitment of all members of Dame SBP, at a meeting tenta­the University community, we tively scheduled for today. commit ourselves to join in Mary Niemier, student repre­unified prayer to seek God's sentative on this committee, guidance for the President of the emphasized, "the academic af­United States, for our nation, fairs committee is making no and for ourselves. judgments on the legality of the 
meeting that the faculty had last 
Thursday. That question must
Hair Styling 
be dealt with by faculty." 
"But, we are required by the Kazor Cutting & Styll' 
for ND men the Continental Way 
constitution to consider any­thing passed by the faculty
European Layer Sha_!lin~ fqr Lonv J.Iair 
senate," she stated.
Have Long Hatr & /,et Mtss Treva <£ The Baron 
cil of Graduate Student Union, 
hereby publically express their 
full support for the Declaration 
made by the President of the 
University on May 4, 1970, 
concerning the war in Vietnam 
and the invasion of Cambodia. 
We further support and repeat 
the request of the Faculty of the 
University in their statement on 
May 7, 1970, that the President 
of the University, in concert 
with representatives of other 
universities, present the Declara­
tion and urge the Congress to 
undertake an immediate and 
thorough examination of the 
war. 
Furthermore, while we are 
sympathetic with the sentiments 
of some of those who would call 
a general strike at the University, 
we do not support disruptive 
action in any form, especially in 
the name of peace. 
The original draft was passed 
by a vote of 30-9 but was 
ammended to its final form by a 
19-I 8 vote in order to stress 
that the sentiments expressed 
were those of the delegates only 
and not necessarily those of all 
of the graduate students of the 
university. 
Jn the closing minutes of the 
meeting, the possibility of a 
co-op book store was discussed. 
Graduate students are presently 
being polled by department to 
see how much interest for this 
project exists. 

Set up timetable 
DETROIT (UPI)-Defense Secretary Melvin Laird pledged yesterday the timetable set up by President Nixon when he sent 
U.S. troops into Cambodia will be met when Americans "will not become bogged down in Cambodia." 
Weather conditions have a large bearing on the effectiveness of the operation to destroy the sanctuaries of the North Vietna­mese and Viet Cong and the job will be completed before the rainy season begins, he said. 
"What has already been found and destroyed in the war of supplies used by the enemy go beyond all our expectations," Laird said in a news conference prior to a speech before the Economic Club of Detroit. 

Be Well Groomed Serve & Pamper You 
the NOW AND THEN SHOPPE

Continental Hair Styling 
Custom-made BfKINIS
306 Sherland Bldg. 
crocheted and fabric
Student Rates
South Bend, Ind. 
329 Dixie Way North (Roseland)
234-0811 
272-8334
By Appt. 
PAGE 3

..!_UESD~'!'-· MAY 12. 1970 
THE O&fERII£R 






Discuss ·"Changes in University" 
by Ann CEodnway Thomas Musial of Collegiate
ssoc1ate 1tor .
A Semmar, and Mr. Raymond 
"Changes in the University" Fleming of Modern and Classical was the topic of a panel Language Department. yesterday during the frist day's 
Dr. Nutting spoke on the 
activities of the Communiver­reasons why there is great sity. dissatisfaction with the conduc-Among the speakers were: Dr. tion of the educational system. Willis Nutting of the General The rigidity of the system is one Program Department, Prof. main fault, according to Dr. 

India and West is Khera lecture topic 
1937 to 1944. He also served as
Prem Bal Khera, founder and president of Dev Samaj college principal of Dev Samaj College for Women in Moga from 1945
for Women in Ambala City, to 1947 and has been head of
India, will speak at 4 pm today the college in Ambala City since 
in the University of Notre its founding in 1948.
Dame's Memorial Library Audit-The 57 year-old educator has
orium. 
been a lifelong adherent of DevHis talk, which is open to the Samaj, which he describes as "apublic, will be on "India and the religious movement with a scien­West: What can We Learn From tific basis," and he has success­Each Other?" His talk is spon­fully integrated it into educa­sored by the collegiate seminar tional experiments.
the general program of liberal One of Khera's four childrenstudies and the department of living in the United States,
theology. Vinod, is a graduate student at
Khera, who holds an M.A. Notre Dame and was president
degree in English from Forman of the University's Indian stu­
Christian College of Lahore, was dent group.
head of the department of Nutting He stated "Only cer­
· · ' 

tain things are valid. Others aren't and there is no way to get
' 
them to count." 
The second great fault of the educational system is that of dividing knowledge into disci­plines. "Knowledge is a con­tinuum. We take this and set a scheme of competence over it. A person who wants to be a scholar must work in one com­partment. To be a true scholar one must get out of his compart­men!." 
Speaking further on the com­partmentalization of knowledge, he stated, "When knowledge is imparted this way, in pieces, there is no idea of interrelations. The student is not shown how to draw things together." 
Dr. Nutting used the Hes-burgh Statement of May 4 as an example of this compartmental­ization and its effect. According to Nutting, several faculty mem­bcrs at the faculty meeting stated that they could not comment on the Hesburgh state­ment because thy weren't com­petent to judge the merits of the statement. 
Finally, Nutting stated, "A 
man who is a specialist becomes 
helpless in helping anyone. No bl . . t . 
pro em ts JUS m one area. 
M ld rk t h 1 b t f el . any wotu t 1 e 0 c P u e 
mcompe en. 

The second speaker, Prof. Thomas Musial spoke on the strike and its effect on the University. He stated, "I oppose the strike in one sense, that of the politization of the univer­sity. To the extent that the Universityasaninstitution commits itself to a vested interest is dangerous. We no longer have a 'free city' where we can provide grounds for dialogue so that responsible evaluations of situations can take place." 
He stated that he was amazed "how a human crisis brings out the true character of a man and an institution. It is a delustion that the only worthwhile know­ledge can be gotten in a classroom. If learning doesn't in some way make a difference in the way we live, education fails us." Musial stated however that courses which caused the student to reflect upon and evaluate his existence were worthwhile, and it would be an abrogation of responsibility to call off these courses. 
nnauy Musial stated, "If 
. 

there IS any aspect of education that teachers have failed to take 
. . 

a stand can be as senous as 11 saying nothing at all. But this docs not mean that individuals must not take a stand. 
Mr. Ray Fleming spoke on the education within the University. He stated that "One reaches a point where the traditional frame of reference isofnouse, but people still stick with it. The killing of Americans and Viet­namese is not an academic question. It is one area of existence where one must take a stand, and we've reached the stage where a stand must be made. 
Calling Hesburgh's May 4 statement concerning Vietnam a "weak innocuous statement," Fleming stated that the strike had done nothing but perhaps was a first step. It had not made 
the administration change their 
minds. 
"But, Fleming stated, "the 
very least you can do is engage 
in the strike. It is one of the few 
effective means you have. This 
strike is really scaring the people 
in authority. Keep scaring 
them." 



PAGE 4 

THE OBSERfJER. 
,....----------------------------------------., 




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. De SAPIO, Publisher
DAVID C. BACH, -Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Editorial: 

Congratulate Academic Council 
Yesterday the Academic Council passed a proposal which Father Hesburgh termed an "academic option"' proposal. It was a formal recognition that at times the student should have the "option" of substituting one educational opportunity for another. 
We feel that it is significant that the Academic Council went beyond the proposals of the students when it sanctioned "excused absences" for classes missed last week, authorized special grades (W and I) and called for a university-wide referrendum on the "Princeton proposal" to recess classes before the fall elections. 
And while it is primarily effective only for this semester, we feel that, when viewed along with the Academic Council's approval earlier in the year of such innovations as pass-fail and student organized courses, it is an indication of the heightened awareness by the University of the nature of the "free" education that has been mentioned so much recently by the Nutting for President people. 
"Free" here should not be taken to mean permissive. For as the statement reads, the student must be able to show that he has engaged significantly in outside organized activities. It is, again, merely the substitution of one activity for another and it in no way denies the right of normal classroom activity to those who seek it. 
We congratulate the Academic Council for its forthright stand in this time of campus and national concern over Cambodia. 
letters  
~lixon not brainless  Frustration and alienation at the  road  to  travel  before  students  
Editor:  very  roots  of  our  society  will  can  claim  a  valid and  concrete  
I  think  there  is  a  general  continue to spread. Politics will  voice in the University,  we  can  
conception on campus that Pres­ continue in an "ends justify the  say  that  for the first time in  a  
ident Nixon is lacking in intelli­ means"  manner.  People  will  very long period (at least in my  
gence. Whatever else may be said  daily  grow  alienated  from  a  three years here) the Administra­ 
about  him,  it  is  an  error  to  government  and  society  which  tion has sensitized itself to the  
accuse him of being brainless. Nixon could hardly not be aware  talks about values and ideals which, somehow, aren't detected  anxieties and sufferings of many students.  
of the reprecussions and risks inherent in his invasion of  in actual practice. After money does the talking.  all,  I pray that this will not be seen as a "victory" for one side,  
Cambodia.  On  the  above  as­ I believe and hope this trend  or  a  "defeat" for another side.  
sumption that he is, at least, intelligent, I don't think Nixon would have assumed responsi­bility for such reprecussions if  will someday be reversed, that the United States can again be a country for all to believe in. New laws, or new structrues in  The gap between the left and right on campus is too wide for all of us, and another rift, especially over such a sensitive  
he were not quite sure of the military success of the invasion. Thus far, the invasion does appear to be heading for "suc­cess." For this reason, I believe Nixon will also emerge in good light after the invasion is over and the troops are removed from Cambodia (which will happen, or the assumption of intelligence is, after all, an error). That is, Nixon will look good in the eyes of a swelling-"silent majority." Why? Because, soon after the remm.'I of troops, the President will announce the removal of I50,000 more troops made pos­sible by the Cambodian invasion. The Vietnamization process will continue on its way and eventu­ally Nixon will say, "See, I got us out of the war." And elsewhere things will continue in much the same way.  government and business are not alone the answers. Ultimately, it must be the American people, especially our leaders, who must be truly committed to a just, charitable and good nation. Sincerely, Terry Heltzel 825 Flanner Congrat'Jiations Editor: Having just heard the Aca­demic Council's passage of the proposal for academic freedom and. the further call for a student-faculty referendum con­cerning political activity next fall, I wish to congratulate our Administration and Faculty. While the stereotype of "old men controlling our lives" is in no way exploded, and while -we have a very long and arduous  issue, would be fruitless· if not disastrous. What must be recog­nized is that at last our "parents away from home" have learned to empathize with us. For one afternoon they relinquished the. badge of Corporation du Lac to become part of the feelings, conscience, and pulse of stu­dents and faculty. Regardless of what we believe, we do know that we FEEL, and we can now state with some certainty that the Administration knows that also. I congratulate Father Hes­burgh and the Academic Coun­cil; some faith has been restored, but much work remains both for peace and for the incorporation of students into the decision­making process of Notre Dame. At least it is no longer a brick wall. Jim Rocap I 0 I 9 Flanner  
Executive Editor:  Dave Stauffer  
Business Manager: Bruce Rieck Advertising Manager: Bruce Barker Campus Editor: Glen Corso :\lews Editor: Steve Hoffman SMC News Editor: Jeanne Sweeney Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Ann Conway Photography Editor: Michael  Features Editor: T. C. Treanor Sports Editor: Terry Shields Night Editor: Jim Graif Layout Design: Dave Bach, Jim Graif Layout: Ann Conway, Ann Therese Darin, Dave Bach, Cliff Wintrode Headlines: Jim Graif Ad Layout: Jim Flanigan  The opinioPs in the editorials. nevvs analysis, and columns of The Observer are solely those of the authors and editors of The Observer and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administrations, faculty, or student bodies.  
Murphy  

TUESDAY, MAY 12, 1970 

"Everything I st-.nd for Is what these kids want."-Richard M. Nixon 

,Campus Opinion 
The following is the statement issued by Senator Birch Bayh soon after Pres. Nixon announced he was sending U.S. troops into Cambodia. 
The President said we have made and will continue to make every possible effort ot end the war through negotiation at the conference table rather than through more fighting on the battlefield. But the record shows that President Nixon has downgraded the level of the Paris peace negotiations by failing to appoint a top ranking negotiator ot replace Ambassador r Lodge. And now he has escalated the war by sending American troops into Cambodia? To me the conclusion that the President is in reality attempting to win the war on the battlefield rather than seriously seek a negotiated settlement 
is inescapable. 

The President said this is not an invasion of Cambodia; that this action was not taken for the purpose of expanding the war into Cambodia, but for the purpose of ending the war in Vietnam. It is 
nevertheless clear to all that the war has in fact been expanded into Cambodia ~nd it is not at all clear that this expansion of the conflict will result in a speedier end to American involvement in Southeast Asia. In fact, it is likely to increase our involvement in an expanding conflict. We cannot increase our level of military activity in Southeast Asia and expect the other side to refrain from doing likewise. You do not end a war, you do not increase your involvment by widening the scope of the conflict. We will not be able to stop the loss of American lives by sending American's sons to fight in Cambodia. The unfortunate fact of the matter is that while the President talks of Vietnamizing the war in Vietnam he is Americanizing the war in Cambodia. I believe the President has made a grave mistake that will make our withdrawal from Southeast Asia more unlikely and more difficult. 
In view of Congress' preventive action last year in prohibiting a 
widening of the Vietnam War into Laos by denying the use of funds 
for American combat operations in Laos, I expect Congress to once 
again exercise its constitutional authority to deny the use of fudns 
to expand American combat operations into Cambodia. 
The President repeatedly referred to the will and character of the 
American people being tested. 

"If we failed to meet this challenge," he said, "all other nations 
will be on notice that despite the overwhelming power, the United 
States, when a real crisis comes, will be found wanting." 
In my view, it requires more will, more character, more courage to 
admit having made a mistake and to act decisively to correct that 
mistake than it does to meey military force with more military 
~orce, lawless aggresssion with lawless response. The question we 
face in Indochina is whether or not the most powerful nation in the 
world has the will-and the moral courage-to admit a terrible 
mistake and correct it. 

The following is the text ofa telegram sent by Congressman john Brademas in response to a wire sent him by Dean Hogan and 15 0 engineering students. 
Faculty and students of Notre Dame: Thank you for your telegram concerning the crisis in Southeast Asia. President Nixon's Cambodian policy, will, I fear, serve to widen the war in Southeast Asia and imperil the prospects for peace there. Accordingly, this week during House consideration of the military procurement authorization bill, I voted for an amendment, to prohibit sending United States ground combat troops in Laos, Thailand or Cambodia without prior consent from Congress. Because this amendment was defeated and also because the bill contains authorizations for excessive and wasteful expenditures, such as the ABM, I voted against the bill. I have also signed a petition calling for a caucus of democratic members of the House of Representatives to discuss the critical Southeast Asia situation. In 1968 Mr. Nixon campaigned on the promise that he would end the war and win pea:e. By his action in Cambodia, Presiden Nixon has widened the war and perhaps prevented a peace. John Brademas, Member of Congress 
TUESDAY, MAY 12, 1970 
PAGE 5 


A Rough Draft or The Conversion of Attilla 
The whole draft physical business was a touch unreal to begin with. After ushering Congressman Lowenstein around for a day and getting him off to the airport the following morning, I hadn't had any sleep for three days. So naturally Wednesday afternoon when Bob Souders suggested going in to see M.A.S.H. again, 
went. I was supposed to have rehearsal for my play that night at 10:30 p.m., but ahout 10: I 5 it became clear that half tbe cast (the ones in Good Woman of Setzuan) couldn't come until midnight. Insofar as I had to get up at 4:30a.m. for a draft physical the next morning and was already nearing a zombie-like condition I cancelled rehearsal. Then George Moore and I carried the Authentically Maerry­whethre's sound system back from Washington Hall (we had used it for Lowenstein) and about midnight I finally made it into the sack. One a.m. I got a call from The Kid, who was sitting up in the upper floor of the Senior Bar slicing 300 lbs. of cheese into small, handy, bite-size chunks. Two a.m. comes a call from Dubuque and a friend informs me that she's going to be in South Bend this weekend. And finally at four a.m. another lucky senwr calls to invite me to breakfast. 
Well, anyways, I make it down to the South Bend Post Office at 5: I 5 a.m. and soon am happily on my way to Chicago. I should have known what was coming by the metaphysical symbols surrounding 
Let It Bleed 


Strike 
by Dennis Wall 
These past few days a large segment of the Notre Dame "community" was engaged in a strike because of recent events in the Southeast Asia nation of Cambodia. The following is an attempt to examine the basic purposes and rationale hehind this move on the part of a large mass of students here, as well as to examine the results of this "general boycott of classes." 
One of the main purposes behind this strike was to "substitute a different educational focus" in the place of classes. This was to be accomplished primarily through teach-ins and dialogues. The teach-ins spanned the course of several days and were unrefreshingly constant in their purpose and in their content. Included in every "learning process" was Prof. Charles McCarthy or Prof. James Douglass or Prof. John Williams, et al. Although these men are excellent speakers and deserve to be heard as much as any man, their vi ews were strikingly similar and, after several days of speeches, approached the point of boredom. The "dialogues", on the other hand, were a travesty of the word. A dialogue is designed for the purpose of presenting two opposing views. It was Hegel's assertion that "synthesis" comes oniy from the continued interaction of two great and opposing forces, a view with which Marx most heartily concurred. However, an opposing view was conspicuously absent these past few days. Indeed, the only dialogue in the true sense of the word to which I have been privileged to be a witness occurred on Wednesday May 6 on the main quad. One man, a Vietnam veteran, stood and argued for his right to speak with one of the organizers of that particular "dialogue". Fortunately, members of the crowd supported that man's right to speak and for one hour and a half I listened in rapt attention to the first real exchange of ideas that I have seen in seven months as a member of this "community". Much credit is due to that man for his courage and his conviction; much thanks is due to the people assembled there that day for defending his right, and the rights of others to speak. But this instance of true dialogue was, as I have indicated, alone in its escape from the mindless menace of mendacity. More common was the sort of action taken in the fieldhouse on Tuesday, May 5 by Student Body President David Krashna and approximately 30% of the Notre Dame Community when they voted to cancel the Petula Clark concert. Or when, again David Krashna, on Wednesday, May 6 proposed that the workers of this university he given Friday, May 8 off with pay -he asked the people who attended that day's rally to voice-vote only for his proposal to be either a demand or a request he asked for no vote from those who did not support it at all. (Despite his later declarations that "We are not trying to be elitist. We are trying to do the best thing for our community.") But the epitome of the perversion of free speech which too often governed the activities of this strike in these past days was reached in Howard Park on Wednesday, May 6. On that day we heard from various fighters for liberty, such as a cor.ununist from the Cuban Brigade and a women's lib advocate. And all this was done in the name of education. 
The second main purpose of this "general boycott of classes" was to show 
disavowal upon the. part of the students here of the President's Indochina policy. 
And what has been the result of five days of strike upon the part of 500 out of the 
3,658 colleges in the United States? What is being debated in the Congress of the 
United States -Cambodia? Vietnam? No. According to a UPI report dated May 6 
there was a debate raging in Congress upon the question of 'disorderly dissent on 
college campuses in America.' This is a direct change from Saturday May 2 when 
Senator Fulbright demanded that the !'resident meet with the Senate Foreign 
Relations Committee to explain his action and when Senator Edward Kennedy 
spoke for both Houses of Congress as he termed the President's move "ghastly". 
Kent State and Strike have become the issues, rather than Vietnam or Cambodia. 
This is tragic and is a slander upon those four people that died at Kent State and 
the 40,000 that died in Vietnam. What happened at Stepan Center on Thursday, May 7 did not stop the gradual disintegration of their memories. Dave Kra~hna stood up and declared that "We had a beautiful march to Howard Park" although he said the rally was a failure. Chris Ottenweller, in dispassionately considering the alternatives for Notre Dame students, said of the proposal to continue to strike that "This is the thing we have to work for." Another person stood up and gave out the "secret" telephone number for Mr. Nixon's poll, although the number was announced over WCFL and other stations the next day. Fred Dedrick, however, faced the facts when he stated: "To my mind there has been too much rhetoric, perhaps some of it my own, and not enough constructive discussion." lie seemed to place the emphasis on the halls, where whatever constructive discussion there was was taking place. Then Phil McKenna spoke, and he said that "I don't believe that the strike itself can be the central issue. I helieve that people who allow that are deluding themselves." This was the closest thing to the truth that was said that Thursday night, when 1,309 students of this university spoke for themselves and declared an extension of this strike. Any decision to continue this abortion can only he considered to be an exercise in self-delusion. This was proved by the mental castration urged upon the assembly at Stepan Center, e.g., sending all sorts of mail to the draft hoards in order to tie them up and participating in a run on the hanks in order to damage the economy. 
The strike: a massive blow for peace? Pardon my guffaw. It is more like the prostitution of a great and justifiable ideal. 

A strange experience by 
. Mike Kelly 
me. 1 he book I h~d grabbed on my way lienee constituted a grave threat to the o,ut and was readmg on the way up was nation and my words went unheeded. 1 God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater by even admitted that I had worked for Vonnegut. Sitting next to me, Pat Clinton Nixon in 1968, but 1 had once wandered was ponng over Dr. Faustus. I should into a meeting of the Socialist Workers have heeded the signs. Party and stayed to listen rather than 
I went through the physical without stuffing a small American flag in each ear much trouble. It was the written loyalty and running away and so I was to waste test that caught me. an entire day in Chicago. 
Now, when one is going through the Had I some money, it might have been 

process to be clasped into the democratic passable. If I had even so much as a 
bosom of Mother Military, one has to sign 
toothbrush it would have been more 
a statement that one is not a member or comfortable. As it was, I retired to a 
has had any contact with a lovely list of walk-in closet for which the YMCA 
organizations that have been declared 
charges $4.50 a night and brooded on mysubversive by the Attorney General. 
previous opposition to the Strike. This is done so that no communists or disloyal Americans will be taken into the Bright and early next morning service and that only loyal, law-abiding trucked into the cafeteria at the draft citizens will be killed in South-East Asia. board and presented the order I had heen given the day before which told me to go
This list is rather archaic and is made there and get breakfast. Unfortunately, up predominantly of 1940 Japanese the lady typing up the order had typedmilitarist organizations (I'd never heard 

''Evening Meal'' twice instead of 
of The Black Dragon Society), 1930 "Evening Meal and Morning Meal" and German-American fascist organizations 
the cook told me to come back that night
(U.S. Savings Bund?) and 1920 ineffec­for dinner. Oh well, I didn't want to eattual socialist defense committees. 
Cream O'Wheat anyways. 
But here and there a few were still in Within an hour or so the big securityexistence and 1 was pleased to discover agent wandered in. He had me swear to 

that several of them I had been to 
tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing
meetings of. 
but the truth. And as 1 watch from increasingly glazed eyes, he pulled out several more forms for me to fill out. He 
Those who know me know that I have 

then attempted to establish a dialogue. Of on occasion made my political views 
course when everything is being recorded known. And those who know me well 
it does tend to hamper meaningful know that these tend to be somewhat to dialogue. the Right of Louis XIV on most subjects. He asked me why I bothered reading 
I have been known to go to leftist socialist and fascist literature and seemed meetings to argue and read their litera­rather surprised when I told him that I ture. didn't trust the Chicago Tribune and the Washington Post to adequately report the
Apparently this eagerness to defend opinions of these groups. "Oh well, atour republic had never confronted Army 

least you don't read The Seed," he
Intelligence (that is to say that branch of laughed.
the service, rather than their total I.Q.) 
I hated telling him that I had a
before. When the lower Security agent subscription.
saw my form, he ordered me to report to But I still attempted to convey to himhis office. I sauntered in, expecting to that I was not plotting the immediateclarify the situation in a few moments, overthrow of Congress, that I thoughtand walked right into the question: 
rather highly of the country. Oh, I told "Would you object to being finger­him I disagreed with some facets, but I printed?" 
wasn't... With strains of Arlo Guthrie rising in the background, I laughed. 
"What do you disagree with'!" 
This was not, apparently, a good thing 

"Hmmmm'!" to do. Army Intelligence agents to not 
"What do you disagree with?" like their requests for fingerprints being 
"Oh... uh .. .I oppose the Draft. But laughed at. 
that's against the Constitution... " "Yeh?" 
So I was fingerprinted. 

"Uh...yes... " 
While filling out several more forms, 

"Yeh'/"
the little security agent tried to get ahold 
"Uh-huh." of the big security agent so that I could 
"Hmmmm." be handled by the experts. Obviously as dangerous a subversive as myself must be The big security man finished with the handled with kid gloves. Thus far I was last form and told me that all of this rather amused by the whole matter. When would be forwarded down to Virginia for asked tv list five character references, I investigation. passed up the temptation to stick down "Don't worry too much, though," he some big politicans I knew and instead told me, "I'm pretty sure this won't keep listed two old friends, a government you out of the Army." professor who was trying to get me to work with him on an anti-Cambodia Despite my obvious joy at this news, I project, a theatre professor whose droll retained enough presence of mind to ask sense of humor would relish the entire what effect it might have. affair and my hall rector, whom I haven't "You probably won't be made an seen since September. The section asking 
officer or put into anything exceptfor credit references I left blank, although 
in fan try."in retrospect I should have listed Campus Did you ever have one of those daysPress. 
when nothing seemed to go right'?
But my amusement was not to last long. The little security agent returned to 
Now, one might ask, why I bothered to inform me that the big security agent had put this whole farce into print. I have two gone home for the day already (when the 
reasons. First, because I find the thoughtsecurity agents go home at 2:30 in the 
of my being the only person out of the afternoon, no wonder Senator Thurmond 
five hundred at the induction center to be fears for our national defense) and, as a 
given a security check rather amusing. result, I was to spend the night in Chicago 
Second, I'm hoping that the FBI man until b.s.a. (i.e. big security agent-no 
who watches over Notre Dame will clip relation to the boy scouts of america) 
this article out and send it down to the came in tomorrow. overly cautious colonel who is reviewing my case. 
I attempted to explain my loyalty to Now if Chris Wolfe is seized in the the Constitution of the United States, but night by CIA agents and bundled off to the fact that I had read literature exile in Sweden, I'll know that the distributed by the Young Socialist AI-revolution has come. 
TUESDAY, MAY 12, 1970

PAGE 6 
THB O&SZRfiEil 

Text of Academic Council Statement 
, The Academic Council has consi­dered carefully the proposals made by several student groups to deal with the grading problem created by the events of the past week and is grateful for these suggestions. The Council has also recognized the great diversity in grading methods anrl criteria among the hundreds of courses and instructors involved, a diversity which makes a uniform and just resolution of the grading prob­lem virtually impossible. With the earnest plea for understanding and cooperation by faculty and students alike, the Academic Council herewith announces its decisions on this matter of assigning grades for the current semester. 
1. 
In recognition of the deep moral imperatives felt by most students during the past week and in ack­nowledgment of the truly educa­tional nature of the extraordinary events of this period, the Academic Cou nci I hereby declares all class absences from May 4 to May 11 inclusive to be "excused absences" with the permission to make up required work. 

2. 
Looking to the immediate fu­ture, the Academic Council rejects the extreme of suspending further classes as academically irresponsible and the extreme of taking vindictive grading reprisals for any further absences as morally insensitive. 


In all undergraduate courses, both required and elective, faculty mem­bers, in consultation with the indi­vidual students, should have the option of giving students not on academic probation wishing to dis­continue either the letter grade they presently hold as their final grade or a pass-fail grade. 
In addition, the Academic Council hereby authorizes, for. this semester only, the use of the grade W (Withdrew) as a final grade to deal .-·ith those situations where the student is not presently failing but where further absences occur and where, in the judgment of the instructor, no academically honest grade can be assigned. For this semester only, the Academic Council also authorizes the limited use of the grade I (Incomplete) in under­graduate courses in those instances where the student has successfully completed the great bulk of the required work but the professor judges the missing work to be essential. The grade I must be removed (by change to a regular grade or a WI by October 1, 1970. 
The Academic Council strongly urges these alternatives be allowed and that they be restricted to students participating in organized activities. 
3. Setting aside the question of grading and looking furtf:ler into the future, the Academic Council recogn­izes the possibility that our national S'ituation next fall may be such that a great portion of our faculty and students will feel obligated to partici­pate personally in the campaigns of political candidates who support their priorities and ideals, to the extent that they would accept the inconveniences resulting from modifi-
The following was presented to the Academic Council yester­day in requestingacademic priveledges for the strikers_ 
The communiversity is a con­
traction of community and uni­
versity. Modeled after programs 
at Wisconsin, Princeton and 
Yale, the Communiversity has 
been established to channel 
discussion, sentiment, and ex­
pression with respect to the 
intensified political develop­
ments at the University and 
national level. Our objectives are 
not only to provide facility for 
the student to interpret his 
political delemma, but also to 
include the South Bend com­
munity in this exchange of 
viewpoint. 
Our program is a multi-media 
program, and includes the 
No fear that university will become part of political process ei. Latin America 
(Continued from page 1) 
sity is often committed to a single political persuasion. Our decision, while permitting re­sponse to important political situations, does not necessarily imply monolithic political ac­tions. Personal commitment is thus enhanced with sacrificing 'institutional neutrality,"' said Preston. 
"In Latin America, students have the responsibility for decid­ing to ~nvolve university, but 
here the faculty and administra­tion make that decision," said Walsh. The decision was not based on "political motivation" or "threat" or "coercion," but on the "flexibility" of the univer-. sity to respond to a national crisis, he added. Walsh· said that if· national crises arise again, the university would "evaluate the specific situations as they arise." Preston indicated that the 
$1.00 a pitcher Money-Saving 
Wednesday Night 

9 -11:30 PIZZA HUT Friday 2 -7 


"BUCKS" 
CUP niE "BUCK" 
BROW AND 



$1 00 OFF~Er
BRING IN 


cation of the announced academic recess shall be declared from Satur­calendar. Accordingly, day, October 24, to Wednesday, 
The Academic Council hereby calls November 4, inclusive with adequa~e for a general faculty and student provision for making up the cla<iS referendum to be held October 2, periods before the end of the 1970, to recommend to the Aca­semester. demic Council whether a special 
Kahn discusses communiversity 
theater, films, lectures, seminars, and newspaper, and if permitted to flourish, we wish to establish a Day Care Center to aid working mothers in the Clay 
Township area. The latter pro­
ject would be in keeping with 
our commu nity education plan. 
Let me stress that Communi­
versity has been conceived as a 
Notre Dame-South Bend 
function. We have done public­
ity in the city including a release 
article which appeared in yester­
day's South Bend Tribune. At 
Notre Dame we have published a 
complete schedule of events. 
Hopefully all future program­
ming will be more based in 
South Bend. 
Our speaking events will not 
be limited to academic discus­
s ion. Our program includes a 
special seminar conducted by 
the prominent Staughton Lynd 

strike committee was "really concerned" this morning that the high class attendance would "jeopardize our bargaining pow­er" with the Council, and was "quite honestly" surprised by the result. 
Walsh said that he talkd with several deans before the Council meeting and discussed the idea, so he "anticipated" some re­sponse, but he had "no idea" of what that response might be. 
The strike committee is hope­ful that the response to their activities will now increase be­cause "we have many worth­while projects that demand many man hours of work," said Preston. 
He said he was "more than happy" about the clause in the Council's decision to make par­ticipation in' "organized activi­ties" mandatory for students wanting to ,discontinue classes. 


Price of continuing high 
(continutJ from page 2} 
Monkewicz said that the ques­tion which needt:d to bt: asked in the event of the rt:fusal of the proposal would bt: "What price 
are you willing to pay?" 
If amnesty is not given, what price are we willing to pay to st:e the war and a nation apparently gmieinsam: be cured?" 
Monkewicz concluded by say­
ing that the price would be high, 
but that a continuing strike 
would be necessary. However, 
the proposal was accepted. 
Jim Learj, one of the original leaders of the strike, said that he would be on strike till the end of the year and until the war ends. Paraphrasing Patrick Henry, "a leftist flamer," Leary said, "You cry peace, peace, and I say there is no peace. There is no peace in 
lndo_china. There can be no peace in the U.S. until there is peace in Indochina." 
Student Body President Dave Krashna read the proposal that was submitted to the Academic Council and said that it seemed to him that many people have "let their enthusiasm wane." Krashna -urged the people to make a commitment to discon­tinue what they had been doing to end the war. 

The final scheduled speaker was Father David Burrell of the philosophy department. He asked the crowd to "give thanks for the kind of consideration and respect shown during the 
1----------:----------'------------.past week for different people
COL.L.£G£ R£PUBL.ICANS 
ELECTIONS TODAY I :30 -4:00 BLUE GOLD ROOM LAFORTUNE SMC SNACK BAR 
Is there reaJJy a nude scene m Carmina Buranda? 
4. The Academic Council excludes the College of Law from the above provisions inasmuch as the faculty and students of that College have previously adopted similar but sep­arate arrangements. 
wherein Canvassers who have worked at both the factory and home level will be asked to relate incidents and visceral reactions in response to their work in South Bend. One of the traditional criticism levied ~o<~jn~t student politics is that 

their criticism excedes their experience. 
What could be more beneficial to the political understanding of the student than community involvement and retrospective analysis of that involvement. The Communiversity will en­gender a practical and applicable 
point of view. 
The Communiversity is especi­ally geared to the student personality who is unable to integrate his objective know­ledge with his personal develop­ment... With such a student, there is terrible dissociation between his expertise on the one hand, and his own point of view. The Communiversity, as its con­cept has been described, would foster an integration of the students now distended exper­ience with his knowledge. The outcome is total presence of 
mind. 

Lastly with regard to the community, the Communiver­sity will make available some educational resources which have been heretofore limited to 
a priveledged few. 
Jay Noonan is receiving any programming suggestions or bookings at 283-7638. The pro­gram will be extended to May 22 and according to Bill Wilka of Academic Affairs will be spon­sored next year in conjunction with his organization. 

and the President." Burrell said that some people might see fit to return to classes now to "inte­grate what they had learned." Others, Burrell said, might be ready to "take a deeper step into themselves, and continue with the strike." 
The microphone was then 
opened up for public use. 
Football player Bill Trapp said 
that Saturday's Blue-Gold game 
was "played as a benefit." He 
said that "athletes are not just 
sitting by, like the typical dumb jocks everyone imagines." 
He said that eleven players had risked their financial back­ing by participating in one of the protest actions last week. "We are concerned," Trapp said. 


TUESDAY MAY 12. 1970 
''The killing has gone on long enough'' 
(Continued from page I) 
moral <IUthority but naked force." While noting that actions at Kent State have radicalized thousands of students, and that $1 million is spent every 15 minutes in Vietnam, Hartke cried, "surely, in God's name the killinghasgoneonlong l'nough." (One-third of the US 
dead 111 Vietnam have died since Nixon was electeu President; yet llartke affirmed that Americans 
Webb ticket states views 

Yesterday "the team with ne'w ideas," Julie Webb, Joan (Punky) Organ, and Kathy Kane continued their campaign for Sophomore Class offices. 
Although Sue Welte, Miss Webb's opposition for the class presidency, is basing her cam­paign on the experience gained by her and her colleagues Mary Jo Ferlini and Pat Haffey, from their positions in student govern­ment this year, Miss Webb's team does not believe that their lack of experience will hinder them. 
"We feel that we arc capable of running the class," remarked Joan Organ, vice-presidential contender. "There are many facets to experience. I felt that my main purpose was academic and so first semester I concen­trated on studies." 
"I felt that I had no right to do anything until I felt that I could handle myself scholas­tically," she staled. "After first semester, I became involved in many ac:tivitics induding SSO ( S I u dent Services Organiza­tion ). " 
"I have also worked doscly with community relations and hall government," added Kathy Kane, candidate for secretary­-treasurer. Besides representing heor lloor in the Regina llall Council meetings, she also cap­tains her tutoring group. 
Miss Wehh claims her exper­icm:e as a reporter for WSN D has familiarized her with the differ­ent segments of the SMC com­munity with which she would he working as Sophomore Class president. 
"Some of the news beats that I cover as a campus reporter, such as the student affairs committee, freshmen, hall, and faculty-student activities, have given me a greater insight into SMC and the role of sophomores in this community," she com­mented. 
When questioned on how 

their campaign differed from 
Sue Welte's, Miss Webb replied, 
"We are working as a team." 
"We feel that the combination 

of our experiences in campus 
affairs, academics, and commun­
ity relations makes us a qualified 
~-man team," she continued. 
Coordinated by Molly Metz­

ler, Julie Webb's ticket advocates 
many new ideas for the class: 
involvement in community 
affairs (babysitting and a big 
sister movement with ghetto 
children) and a "vitalized" cab­
inet of class officers. 
Besides innovation, they also 

proposed l:ontinuation of the 
Freshman Class senate with 
betterment of communication. 

Working with ND's sophomore 
class they hope to continue the 
had "voted for peal:e" in I968, and in 1964.) The Nixon admini­stration's "get tough" policy cannot possibly bring about a doctrine of Reconciliation." llartke credited Eisenhower for overruling Nixon in 1954 when "deciding that no conceivable interest of the US" could war­rant action in Vietnam. 
As5ured that Congress has the power to end escalation-which he characteri7.ed as unly breed­ing more esralation-Harlke ranked the Princeton Movement insignificance with Nixon's Cam­bodia speech and the killings at Kent State. Hartke dismissed Nixon's speech of last Friday-­foretelling a massive massacre in Indochina if US troops are withdrawn-as a scare. He urged a complete reassessment of US foreign policy to prevent more Vietnams, specifically criticizing the US role as world policeman and that Americans did not realize the situation into which they were getting themselves. Hartke noted that he almost expected Nixon to describe extending US action into Cam­bodia as successful and perhaps pull out many troops shortly before this year's election.(Only the silent military would realize if the President ·was truthful.) The Senator condemned vio­lence as prolonging the war-not ending it--and as "aiming a loaded gun at the temple of American democracy;" 

(Continued from page 1) 
Repo~ters ked whether the question of Agnew's "rhetoric" came up in the debate. "No, but I think it was hanging on the fringe," he said. 
Agnew's repeated crticism of student demonstratorshas rankled many in the university community, administrators as well as students. 
Cargo said the governors got what he thought was an "ex-
Welte stresses expenence 
Sue Welte, Mary J o Ferlini, 
and Pat Haffey continued their 
campaign for dass office yester­
day emphasizing their exper­
ience in student government this 
year. 
In addition to regular cam­
paigning, they circulated yester­
day a petition among freshmen 
student governme'nt officials. 
This petition "heartily" en­dorses them for Sophomore Class office. "Having worked closely with them this year, we recognize their excellent perfor­mance in their current posi lions and feel that this competence and experience will be necessary for effective class government in the coming year," it read. 
Heading the list of co-signers, Lolo Stankus, current Freshman Class president, commented, "A definite kind of experience is necessary to work in this system of class government. Through their experiences this year, l think the Welte team is capable Senator Hartke made a. special appeal to women whose "elemental concern for human life is not extinguished by the flood of propaganda issuing from the White House and the Pentagon." 


·" 
Can't carry on dialogue 
Other co-signers include Anne 
P. Ryan,  Freshman  Class  vice  
-president,  Laura  Bayer  and  
Ginny  Zuccaro,  Regina  Hall  
representatives.  

Comprising the contingent of Freshman Class senators aligning themselves with the Welte team are Camilla Kutch, Maryann Bresnahan, Sharon Ann Corbett, Cathy Reinhart, Peg Fitzgib­bons, Mary Mullaney, Mary Jane. McCormick and Ann Carlson. 
Senate confirms Blackmum today 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Thi Senate will confirm judge Harry 
A. Blackmun for the;; Supreme Court today, ending President Nixon's year long quest for a successor to Justice Abe brtas that saw two of his choices defeated. 
Democratic and Republican leaders said they knew of no opposition to Blackmun hen the 
Senate votes on confirmation at 2:30pm EDT. 
tremely lucid" explanation of the military and diplomatic aspects of the Cambodian opera­tion from Nixon, Secretary of State William P. Rogers, and Gen. John Vogt, a high aide to the Joint Chiefs-of-Staff. 
Cargo said he thought Nixon and his aides had been "most persuasive." He added: "If they're successful in Cambodia, they have scored and scored big." 
But the New Mexico governor said the discussion centered on what he described as the admin­istration "not understanding the goals of the students." Nixon, he said, covered the subject "quite well" and agreed that "there should be more communica­tion." 
Gov. Kenneth M.Curtis, Democrat of Maine, quoted Agnew as saying, "We have to clear out the radicals and ras­cals." 
Said Curtis: "Thee's got to be a lot more restrained talk from the national administra­tion. If we tell the students not to react violently, we have to practice what we preach. We, too, have to exercise restraint." 



evlon introduces ~ nti~ cne 

akeup' 
Finally! A makeup that t'eally makes bad skin look good. Gorgeous liquid makeup, in 8 complexion shades. New 'Anti-Acne Make-up' contains dermatologist-approved medication that helps dry up pimples and prevent new llare-ups. And it's oil-free, with special 'blotters' to hold hack oily shine. The first pretty makeup that can make 
a skin specialist happy, too! 
NEW NATURAL WONDER ~ANTI-ACNE MAKEUP' 
Available at: 
St. Mary's Col1e~e Bookstore 

TEL: (312) 944-7500· ZIP: 60611 
many activities i nit ia t cd this l____~A~d~d~f~if~ty~c~o:~,ts~f~o~r~sh~ip~p~in~g~p~lu~s~sa~l~os~t~ax~w~ho~r;•~ap~p~li~co~b~le~-----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

year. 

~----------­
~AGE 8 7118 OBSERVER TUESDAY, MAY 12, 1970 
Irish add two in the win column 

rally and preserve his vic­figured in each of the Xavier slapping a single. Scarpelli fliedby Jim Donaldson weekend by handing Xavier U. a pair of defeats in Cincinnati. tory. tallies. Xavier scored two runs in to left for the second out butObserver Sportswriter Ron Schmitz turned in a route­The Irish built up a 4-0 the first inning, added an­Keenan belted a long triple toIt's been a long haul but the going performance on Saturday advantage Saturday by scoring other marker in third stanza center field to drive in theIrish baseball team has finally to lead the Irish past Xavier 4-2 single runs in the fourth and thanks to three Irish errors and winning runs.
cleared the .500 mark. After and Joe Keenan capped a four­seventh frames and a pair of put their last two runs on the Jim Phelps started the gamedropping I 0 of their first 11 
games it appeared that the Irish -run ninth inning rally on Sun­markers in the eighth. Phil Krill board in the sixth inning on a on the mound for the Irish but would be in for a long dismal day with a two-run triple that put the Irish on the board by single, triple and two Notre went just four innings. Bob gave the Irish a 6-5 triumph. doubling home Rich Lucke. Dame errors. Jaeger replaced Phelps and
season, but starting with a 
victory over Western Michigan in Schmitz limited Xavier to Schmitz brought in the second The Irish tallied a pair of runs hurled a pair of frames before the home opener April 18, the four hits in notching his fourth Irish run by singling to score Bill in the fifth frame on a double by giving way to Jerry Fenze1 who Irish have won 11 of their last win of the season against a pair Orga. Notre Dame added what Phil Krill, Bill Orga's single and pitched the seventh. Rich Eich twelve outings and upped their of losses. Both Xavier tallies proved to be the winning tallies run scoring safeties by pinch­twirled the eighth stanza and record to 12-11. came in the ninth inning on a in the eighth inning on walks to hitter Joe LaRocca and Rob received credit for the victory as Notre Dame reached the plus walk and a pair of hits but Nick Scarpelli and Lucke, a run Voitier. the Irish mounted their game side of this ledger this past Schmitz managed to nip the scoring single by Chuck Horan, a Trailing 5-2 entering the ninth winning rally while Eich was the free pass to Orga and Tom the Irish came up with four runs pitcher of record. Ron Schmitz O'Conner's RBI single. to grab the victory. With one out came out in the ninth inning toJIM MURRAY Sunday, in a game played at Orga drew a base on balls. Bob retire Xavier in order and pick 
Crosley Field in Cincinnati, the Roemer, pinch-hitting for up a save. Irish combined a come-from­O'Conner, rapped a single. Bill The Irish are in action this behind rally with the efforts of Schoen then pinch-hit for Rich ·afternoon in East Lansing,
The Lost Tribe five hurlers to top Xavier. Eich and hit a ball to center that Mich., against Michigan State Xavier took advantage of six the Xavier outfielder muffed for and return home this Friday and an error, allowing Orga to score.
Notre Dame errors to score all Saturday, entertaining Wayne their runs. An Irish miscue Rob Voitier plated Roemer by State in a three game set.
of Basketball 
Shooters are 1mpress1ve 
© 1m, Los All~-.nmes 
by Terry Shields that the Irish marksmen could competition."Observer Sports Editor 
place was tenth. The entire weekend was quite It didn't take the University Army won the event with a an ordeal for the team. they Skeet and Trap club long to get combined score (both skeet and fired 2,000 round of they implored. "Don't give up!" The Lakers had their backs to the use to intercollegiate trap) of 930. Notre Dame's ammunition in the two days that wall. It had been an uphill fight all evening -a 20-point lead at the competition. In their first combined score was a very they were in Iowa. The team as a end of the first quarter which had shrunk to a heart-in-the-mouth, attempt at competition on a respectable 841.8 but of a whole surprised many people19-point lead by the end of the third quarter. level higher than intramural the possible I ,000. with this performance. The 
On the New York Knicks' bench, they were smirking. They were club representatives from ND Bill Maliszewski posted the service academies have much convinced the Lakers' necks would begin to swell, that their finished no less than in the top highest individual score for NO more experience (some of the knuckles were whitening. They had the Lakers right where they half in the national finals. in the skeet event with 81 out of members of these teams shoot wanted them. Nineteen points is point-blank range for the Knicks. It The Notre Dame contingent a possible 100 points. Rich 
for the United States olympicwould be like gassing canaries. 

was selected by a satisfactory Magrini held this honor in the team) but the Irish showed some 
The Lakers of 1970 are a peculiar fighting force -like the Boy trap shoot with a 73.
score sent into the national "cool" under this type of Allies. To find an historical parallel, they would be like an army association. There were sixty In combined scoring Notre adversity.
which has overrun all enemy positions, surrounded the enemy trying 
teams across the country that Dame had five representatives Maliszewski expressed hope of to escape by rowboat -and then hysterically pulling back and suing 
sent in such scores but only 28 with impressive scores. increasing the membership offor peace. They were like a fighter who has his opponent beaten to a were selected to compete in the Maliszewski led the team with a the club next fall. He also hopedpulp and keeps looking up at the clock. They were a firing squad finals at Iowa City, Iowa last 177. I total. Magrini was second that closer facilities might beasking for a blindfold, an elephant cowering from a mouse, a lion weekend. with a score of 169.9. Following found for shooting instead oftreed by a lamb, a rear-engine Offy slamming into a wall in a panic The United States Military these two were Tom Lynch at traveling to New Carlisle eachto get away from a stock Edsel. 
Academy (West Point) was the 167.2, George Gasper (who is Saturday morning.
The Lakers, you see, are a Step-Child of Sport -one of that only a at 166.6 and
team winner for the "big freshman) Also next season the clubforlorn breed of guys who finishes second -the Lost Tribe of 
shootout" and Air Force Bill Rosanelli with 161 points. hopes to schedule a few dualBasket ball. 
finished a strong second. Notre On behalf of the team matches with clubs in theBilly Conn knows how they feel. So does Sam Snead. The I 964 Dame was not able to receive Maliszewski (who is the coach) surrounding area.
Phiilies belonged to the club. So do the San Francisco Giants, the word actual that he more than
official on their stated "was The season is over for theUniversity of Wisconsin Rose Bowl teams, Jim Ryun, the runner, finishing place in the standings satisfied with the results." He University Skeet and Trap Cluband any America's Cup challenger. 
but when the squad left Iowa was particularly pleased that the but off of their showing in theLots of guys have never won the National Open. But when you they were assured of a position team "didn't choke, even though national tournament theirkeep getting within one putt, one hole, or one swing of it -like Sam no lower than I5th. The highest it was their first real activity is just beginning.
Snead -you make the Lost Battalion. Lots of guys have never won the heavyweight championship, but when you get within jabbing range of it -as Billy Conn got -you're in. Lots of teams have lost 
Nefmen coming on 
pennants -but not when they get two weeks to win, like, one game to do it. Northern Illinois was a close The Irish boosted their season 
Lots of teams have never won the NBA championship. But the The Notre Dame varsity ten­second with 24 points, LaCrosse record to a solid I 2 wins against Los Angeles Lakers have gone to the post seven times in nine years. nis team completed a successful had 7 points, and Wisconsin 6 losses by winning three of the Once a ball hit the rim -and rolled off the wrong way. Another road trip Sunday by walloping State managed to score only 6 four official matches played on time, last year, they lost the last two games by a total of three Marquette 9-0. On Wednesday points. the trip. points. the Irish were in Madison for a 
This is a team that has to go into a playoff like a guy looking in a match against the University of dark cellar for an armed fugutive. They are like a mountain climber Wisconsin. NO defeated the 
MAJOR LEAGUES 
who keeps expecting an avalanche within sight of the summit. Badgers 54 to get the trip NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE It is an axiom of sports that champions win championships. The started on the right foot. Then East East Lakers have been operating on short money in the pivot or front the team traveled to Minneapolis w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB 
Chicago 15 12 .555 Baltimore 21 8 .724
court for years. But they had two of the five greatest players who where they 'dropped a 7-2 
New York 14 16 .467 2% *Detroit 15 12 .556 5 
ever played the game -Elgin Baylor and Jerry West. If Elgin Baylor decision to the University of 
Pittsburgh 14 16 .467 2% *Boston 14 13 .519 6
had as many kneecaps as a lettercarrier, the team would not have to Minnesota on Thursday. Friday 
*Philadelphia 13 16 .448 3 *New York 16 15 .516 6 
go into the fourth quarter like a guy trying not to wake his wife. the team returned to their 
*St. Louis 11 14 .440 3 Washington 13 16 .448 8 winning ways with two victories; Montreal 9 19 .321 6% Cleveland 10 16 .385 9%
The Lakers added Wilt Chamberlain and now they had THREE of 
a 9-0 win over Wisconsin State
the greatest ever to play the game. But Wilt came up with the first and an 8-l victory over Michigan West Westserious injury of his life. That's the way it is with the Lakers. Sam Tech in an unofficial match. Cincinnati 23 9 .719 Minnesota 18 9 .667
Snead would understand. Billy Conn could be seen nodding 
Atlanta 18 12 .600 4 *California 18 10 .643 %
Notre Dame was involved in a
sympathetically in a corner. "The putt was only 18 inches!" you Los Angeles 17 Oakland 14 16 .467
Quadrangular match Saturday 12 .586 4% 5% could head Sam explaining. "I had only to dodge for two rounds and 
*San Fran. 15 16 .484 7% *Chicago 11 17 .393 7%
with Northrn Illinois, Wisconsin
he couldn't find me with a dog!" you could hear Conn screaming. Houston 14 17 .452 8% Kansas City 10 18 .357 8%
State, and LaCrosse. The Irish
But the Lakers brushed through the cobwebs and found only a *San Diego 14 18 .438 9 *Milwaukee 10 20 .333 9% 
rigged-up ghost the to came out on top with 26 points, 
other night. They managed smuggle their 20-point lead home. Montreal 3 New York 0 Milwaukee 3 New York 1, 4th inn. In the locker room, I sidled up to both Jerry West and Elgin Crew ousted 
Pittsburgh 4 Cincinnati 1 Chicago 4 Detroit 3, 4th inn. Atlanta 7 Chicago 6 Boston at California, night
Baylor, getting knee soaked, or thumbs injected. "You've been here 
Philadelphia 0 St. Louis 0, 5th inn.

before," I suggested. "This may be the last time, eh?" They both Both NO crews failed to Only games scheduled 
San Francisco at San Diego, night

~tared off into distance as if at the ghost of Christmases past. Their qualify in the 26 team Dad Vail 
*night game not included

answer was the same: "I don't know. You keep thinking it's the last. Tournament in Philadelphia over Then, there's always next year ..." the weekend. St. Joseph's won 
They sounded to me like guys who expected an invisible pebble to before a hometown crowd, and be in the way of the putt, for a right hand to come out of a blind no midwestern team lasted till spot, for the magic number to be zero again. I know one thing: that the finals. fourth quarter in the Gan .n is going to be Halloween, 12 minutes of Barb Walker, JV coxswain silent screaming, a long walk through a dark forest. And, if they have from SMC, was allowed to a 20-point lead, the suspense will be awful. If they have less, there'll participate after some discussion be no suspense at all. among the opposing coaches. 








