Dr. Musial considersfree CityDay 
by Professor Thomas Musial 
Among all the other things that Free City Day is, it is an opportunity to think about what kind of contribution we are all making to the Notre Dame academic community-not so much the selfish reflection we so often pause to make about "what we are getting out of our education," but rather the reverse consideration, "what we are giving to the education of others." 
This is an especially important thing to do for the more permanent residents of this community-the "teachers." A few friends and students have asked me to make my thoughts public. I thought I would be denying something of what a community of learning is all about to have refused. 
Just what ought a teacher of a general humanities course (the Collegiate Seminar) be doing for his students? It's a tough question for me because of what I think the humanities are all about. The humdnities are concerned with a quality of living, and ultimately, for me, that means not only knowing various alternatives for living a good life, but choosing one or responsibly constucting one for yourself and living it. 
What can a teacher do within the 

framework of a formal course (with schedules and assignments and credits and grades and all the rest) to help others live a better life? The usual first response to such an awesome task is to say, "That's not my business, or, ''The task is impossible." But such a response is a first-class professional (in the pejorative sense of the term) educator cop-<>ut. So the question must be answered not only theoretically, but in practice. I can share some of my theory. I will keep working on the practice. 
I still think that Socrates can be taken as my educational model, but I, of course, must make modifications and personal adjustments. Socrates questioned and analyzed issues that arose entirely out of his own experience. Few men find within themselves the vast resources that he did. But as a teacher, I can supplement my native resources-dud those of my students--with other men's thoughts and experiences which, once 
understood and shared, represent something to grow up to, something that 
will  enlarge  the  self  by  assimilating  a  
qualitative  model  of  thought  or  
experience.  I  find  these conciliatory  

experiences in the great books and great art works that a teacher can select as the basis of his course. 
But books and art works are only part of the educative models that a teacher can offer to his students. He must, himself, be one of his models. The teacher must represent an exemplary way of proceeding. He must be an example in the practices of his day to day concerns and course proceedings of how a student can responsibly arrive at his own answers to questions of fundamental human 

SMC leaders discuss raids 
Considering remedies 
by Jeanne Sweeney ation Sunday night, the student s M c News Editor leaders decided that they must 
Solutions to the growing pro-work out some proposals to blcm of panty raids, or what alleviate the immediate problem some might describe after last of panty raids, and begin work Sunday night as the relegation of on a long range solution to the women to sex objects, was the warped situation which produces task presented yesterday to a this kind of raid. conglomeration of Saint Mary's They also discussed whether student leaders meeting. students who were involved in 
llall governments, class offi-the panty raid should be perse­..:ers, representatives, and other cuted. interested students discussed the One proposal for alleviating question of preventing future the problem of panty raids was destruction of property and presented by Carol Cusick who physical and personal damage advocated a non violent opposi­done to any students. tion to the raiders. Miss Cusick's 
With the growing escalation of procedure inclucierl opening up 1he panty raids and its culmin-{continued on page 7) -------·· 
~:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 

~~\~ G-race here Friday I 
Trustee J. P. Grace, un.;.!er fire from segmc11ts of the university community for the alleged behavior of his co~pany in Latin America, has agreed to meet with students and faculty in an open meeting on Friday. The meeting, which will be held at S pm in the Library Auditorium, will be moderated by Fr. Dav~d Burrell. Fr. Burrell is trying to assemble a panel of faculty members, with expertise in the field of Lat~n Ameri~a economics, to question Mr. Grace about the deahngs of h1s 
company. . 
Mr. Grace's company, the W.R. Grace Compa~y, 1s cha~ged with the economic exploitation of various Latm Amencan countries in which it has extensive holdings. Critics charge that his company moves into vari~us count~i~s and strips them of their natural resources, w1thout glVlng them adequate compensation. 
Grace's name has been repeatedly mentioned by students 
who have allegedly documented the financial holdings of · · several trustees. These students claim that the Trustees:~~j represent the "upper class corporate elite" in the nation, and :m: :;~; as such give the "military-industrial complex" de facto control ;:;:; 
l=====g=~~=~=Y~!~~=~~~=~=~:&~!=:~L===:=~=:========================:=====:========:=======::=======:=:====:~=====~=~===:=====:============i: 
significance and make those answers a vital part of his life. 
With Socrates as the ideal, I champion the charismatic teacher. I'll not take time here to enumerate ail of Socrates' characteristics as a teacher, for I merely want to stress that every teacher ought to strive to manifest in his own way his own compelling charisma. Such a charisma is a testimony of the vitality in his own life of what he teaches. The teacher must devise a way in his classroom pedagogy to share what he has found vital in his own life, and again he must offer himself as a living example of the meaning and value of what he teaches. In the language of J>lato'sPhaedrus, he must be the visible incarnation of his gods, the gods which provide him with the total pattern by which he educates and is educated 
himself. What he is must persuade or compel students' assent to the necessity and humanizing power of the teacher's personal daemon. 
I might suggest that the process of humanistic education, as I am here presenting it, can be understood in ter~s of helping another person grow by seemg in others constructive examples of living-of thinking, feeling, and acting. The student in this way may fill voids in himself which the teacher helps him discover. From this point of view, vicarious sharing of thought and affective experience between the students, teachers, and the authors and artists of a course syllabus becomes the basis of the person's individual growth and social 
Profe!ISOr Willis Nutting 
Nutting keys on 


respecttorstudent 
by Bro. Patrick Carney Citing improvements in re­spect for faculty members over the years he has taught, Dr. Willis Nutting expressed a hope that students would soon ex­perience that same respect in his keynote address to the Free City Symposium last night. Nearly sixty people heard the professor trace the history of higher education in the United States from its earliest begin­nings with the purpose of training men for the ministry. These schools, according to Dr. Nutting, had groups similar to boards of trustees established bv the religious denominations to see that the teachers did not get out of line. When the secular authorities take over, there was a similar set 
up because now the purpose was to make good citizens. Teachers were hired to "teach right" and would be fired if they did not. 
Dr. Nutting sees a great change in recent times with regard to the respect accorded teachers. "We're now treated well," he said, "although I h~te to admit it since most of myhfe I have said the opposite." lie cited the American Association of University Professors (wwhich he referred as "a high class teachers' union) as having a lot to do with giving the teachers more say and pointed out that he felt that the organization's recent award to Fr. Hesburgh for his help in this regard was very well deserved. 
It was in the position of the 
(continued on page 7) 
awareness. Obviously, in this light, everyone is both a teacher and a student. That, in my opinion, is the vital core of a true academic community. 
One of the principal functions of the teacher, then, is the extension of the knowledge and awareness of others. The professional teacher (one who earns his Jiving by virtue of his special contribution to the educative process) must bridge the thought and experience gaps between himself, his students, and the authors and artists that arc his educative models. He must understand a student's experiential frame of reference and converse with him where he is in terms he can understand. He must understand the experiential frame of reference of the author or artist that is studied in the course. He must know how he can intellectually and sentiently relate to each of these worlds of experience and how he can translate the language of one into the language of the other. Th e professional teacher must also provide a perspective that those he teaches do not have. His qualifications are largely three: he has greater knowledge, experience, and maturity; he has a more disciplined ability to evaluate thought and experience; and he stands in an objective relation to the thoughts of those he is helping to grow. From this vantage point, he is in a good position to 
nurture his students' instights, help  hem  
form  a  more  synoptic view, and  check  
their critical caprice.  

(continued on page 6) 
THURSDAY, APRIL 30, 1970 

Cambodian 
operations protested 
'Bi~ mistake' 

Could become fu 11-scale war in Indochina 
WASIIINGTON (UPI) -The United States provided military advisers and other support yes­terday for South Vietnamese attack on Communist forces just inside Cambodia. provoking charges in Congress that Presi­dent Nixon might be widening American involvement in Indochina. 
The White House said Nixon would address the nation to­night, presumably to announce his decision on Cambodia's re­quest for extensive U.S. military arms and supplies. It said yester­day's action was not the Pre­sident's response to that request. 
The speculation in diplomatic circles was the Nixon, hoping to avoid any appearance of direct American involvement, would arrange for indirect supply of arms to Cambodia through Allied nations, such as Thailand. 
The Defense Department an­nounced that at Saigon's re­quest, it was providing "advisers, tactical air, air coordinators, medical evacuation and some logistics assistance" for an as­sault which South Vietnam car­ried out yesterday against North Vietnamese and Viet Con).( bases 
(continued on page 3} 
PAGE 2 



CPA runs discussion on 
From noon to late atternoon 
today, there will be a discussion 
on "Male Supremacy at Notre 
Dame" around the flagpole on 
the main quad. Sponsored by 
the Elizabeth Gurley Flynn 
Caucus of the Notre Dame 
Coalition for Political Action, 
the event will consist primarily 
of small group discussions on 
Notre Dame mens' attitudes, 
sexual role stereotypes, and the 
position of female students, 
faculty, and workers at Notre 
Dame. There will be discussion 
of the new booklet, Sexism at 
Notre Dame, which will be 
available for sale, along with 
leaflets and publications by
sly is com in g 
In response to queries address­ed to the Student Union Social 
Commission, Commissioner Jim Porst yesterday said that Sly and 
the Family Stone would defin­itely be appearing for his concert Saturday. 
Porst said that apparently 
many stuaents have been hold­
ing off buying tickets fearing 
that Sly would not appear. 
CORRECTION 
The story in the Observer yesterday concerning the parie­tals hours being passed by the Hall Life board was incorrect. The story stated that Farley Hall rejected the Trustees resolution. Rich Anderson, President of Farley, however, claimed that the Farley Hall Council has "not come down with a decision regarding the Trustees resolu­tion." He said that the council would make a decision in the near future which will be given to both the SLC and the 

WANTED TO RENT Furnished House Family of 6 June 22 to August lst Call 284-4917 

SLY 
MAY 2 & THE 8:00P.M. FAMILY A.C.C.
STONE 
presented by: 
Student Union Social 
Commission 



'Male Supremacy' at NO 
women's iiberation groups. The :>lace of women in history, discussion will also include de­~ociety and culture. Birth con­mands to be made at Friday's trol, abortion and pregnancy Board of Trustees Meeting: counselling. 
( 1) open admission­Finally, Sunday night's "pan­coeducation for undergraduate ty raid,'' and its implications women at Notre Dame; with regard to the "15 minute 
(2) 
higher wages and right to rule" and the use of police, collective bargaining for campus along with the question of. workers, particularly women; reparations will be discussed. 

(3) 
a free day-care center There will be special groups controlled by the parents, for for women, with members of children of all families who have South Bend's Women's Liber­someone working for the Univer­ation. There will be leafleting sity; downtown between noon and I 

(
4) more women in the pm on Friday, and picketing of faculty and graduate school; the Trustees meeting on Friday 

(5) 
elimination of courses afternoon, by women supporting with a male showing the true the above demands. 


=~;~=;=;=;:;;;;:::::=::==~::::::/==~==::============F=::::;::===,======e====::=:;:e=====:::======c===l=====:::is:t::~==y=======S!=::=8========~~=~=::::==:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;:;:~ 

Day sched le
U 
Though most activities in The Free City will be spontaneous, (for this is the way learning takes place in a Free City), here is a partial agenda of scheduled events: 
FREE YOURSELF TO PARTICIPATE IN: 
TIME PLACE ACTIVITY 
Begins behind 5:30A.M. Birdwalk with Dr. Nutting Lyons Hall 
LaFortune Student Center Pancake Breakfast 
(in front of the building) 
12:00 
7:00P.M. Dr. Goerner said an education is more than amassing credits. 

First Symposium topic is 'Liberal Education' 
by Mike Ruffer Dr. Edward Cronin, professor in General Program, asked ir a teacher who had just received his Ph.D. was hired to teach. "Of course not,' he replied. Thenew Ph.D. knows that the way to get ahead in his pro­fession is· not to teach but to publish. "These men rationalize their actions by saying that this extends to frontiers of know­ledge and that it is a professional obligation to punish," he added. "There is nothing less profes­sional than a professional using his professional skills to publish. A teacher who puts himself first and his students last is a 

FOUND: One pink nightie top with white dots and white tie in middle. Size 7 Junior Bazaar by Sears. Contact 528 Grace 6755  
Attention students of English, Drama, Poli Sci, History -Study in England This Summer -Tour various parts of the Continent -Contact Roger Coonrod at The Morris Inn Friday from noon until 8:00pm. is published daily during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from the Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second clzss postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556.  


Seniors interested in a symbolic graduation 
(e.g. anti-war, anti-pollution) meet on 2nd floor Lafortune Tonight at 7:00. 
Thurs. April 30 thru Sat. Mav 2 Lot south of stadium FORD TOTAL PERFORMANCE SHOW 
-Jimmy Clark's 1965 Champion Indianapolis 500 totus 38-High Performance cars and parts displays -First Campus Appearance ever direct from Atlanta 500, Daytona and all major tracks. -High performance consultants-Formula F 

FREE ADMISSION 10 AM -9 PM 
Co-Sponsored by 
Socia! 
THURSDAY, APRIL 30, 1970 PAGE 3
THE O&rUIIII 




SLC, Trustees discuss parietal hours 
A committee of the Student study of the philosophy of the have gone ahead and instituted Life Council will meet with an 
purpose of a residence univer­visitation hours for around the Ad Hoc Committee of the sity, and of discipline, and for a clock. Executive Committee of the 
study on improvement of hall Professor Massey noted at Board of Trustees today to staff. yesterday's meeting that a request reconsideration of the The Council's original request rationale on visitation hours and Trustees' decision on women's called for each hall to be allowed sign-in procedures passed earlier visitation hours. to set up its own hours contin­this year by the Council would 
The committee members gent on the approval of the Hall be mailed to all student soon. 
which were named at yesterday Life Board. The Trustees' reply An accompanying letter by 
morning's Student Life Council 
allowed for individual hall deter­Massey would also be enclosed. meeting include Administration 
mination provided that hours Massey read the letter to the 
Representative Father Maurice ended during the week at II pm Council yesterday. There was 
Amen, Faculty Representative and on weekends by 2 am. The some discussion about the 
Professor John Houck, Student Trustees expanded the Hall Life remarks included which per­
Body President David Krashna, Board from its present five tained to the new drinking 
Student Representative Rich members to nine members regulation passed by the Council 
Meckl, Chairman of the Hall appointed by University Presi­last year. 
Presidents' Council Tom Suddes, dent Father Theodore Jlesburgh. The Council provided that 
and another Hall President to be It was noted at yesterday's students could drink alcoholic 
named by Suddes. meeting that two halls, Grace bevemges on campus provided 
Trustees who will be at the and Flanner have already made that they were not in a public 
meeting include Chairman Ed­proposals to the present Hall place. Many complaints have 
mund Stephan, Doctor Thomas Life Board for expansion of been made this year about hall 
P.s Carney, and Paul Hellmuth. hours without the Trustees' and individual parties at which Student Life Council Chairman limitations. Th Board approved alcoholic beverages were con­James Massey and Mr. Phillip the measures Tuesday afternoon. sumed and alleged violence, Faccenda, Special Asistant to Vice-President for Student vandalism and hooliganism Father Hesburgh, will be at the Affairs Charles McCarragher and occurred. Some members of the meeting as observers. Massey both noted that they felt Council have felt that this was in 
A preface for the discussion that the changes would be violation of the original pro­will be a letter written by effective immediately since posal. Meckel. Its priorities were ap­approval of hall plans for The Council noted that drink­proved by the Council at its expanded hours by the Board ing was not to take place in meeting last week. The letter did not depend on the appoint­public places. Some members of states in part that the Council ment of additional members by the Council felt that everywhere reaffirms its original report on Hesburgh. except individual students' parietal hours. It also calls for a At least four halls on campus rooms were public places. Others 
SMC assembly ends requirement 
$1 SO, the amount requested by 
by Susie Bury decision. However, Miss Cusick oointed 
the group. Paula Dawning at-The St. Mary's Student out at Tuesday's Assembly meet­tended the Tuesday meeting as a Assembly Tuesday night decided representative of the Associa­
ing, the review board's move was 
to drop class requirements for tion, and described this week­
"not due process." The decision 
JUdicial board appointments and end's activities for black stu­
leaves the board open she said to allocated funds to the Asocia­dents that will utilize the stu­
accusations of personality bias 
tion of Black Collegiate Women dent government funds. The
since the removal of the require­at St. Mary's. events will include a ball and
ments came after the nomina­
A motion to drop the class tions were in. two talks by visiting speakers. 

requirements for the judicial Also, the board's action Miss Dawning pointed out the board members was passed by placed a certain amount of need for some social and intel­the Assembly after considerable pressure on the Assembly by lectual activities on St. Mary'sdebate. This decision ratifies the going ahead with the appoint­campus for the black students, review board and validates the 
ments and the decision came citing their lack of attendance at current appointees to the judi­
shortly before the appointments proms and other standard occa­cial board. 
were made she said. sions. The amount of debate over 
There was no public an­Discussion of the allocation the review board's decision to 
nouncement of the review centered around the value of the 
drop the requirements after board's decision to drop class ball and the visiting speakers to nominations were made was requirements. the black members of St. Mary's responsible for the Assembly's The Assembly also voted to community and the question of decision. Carol Cusick had give the Association of Black available funds in the student 
originally moved that the nomi­Collegiate Women at St. Mary's government. 
felt that other rooms in the halls arrived late. might be at times construed as On the floor when the meet­private places. · The Student ing adjourned, were two motions 
Manual states that public places which would amend the mem­include areas "except rooms in bership of the Council. dormitories." One by student representative 
The Council considered pro­Ted Jones called for a Council posed amendments to its by-Jaws which would consist of six and voted to retain a section faculty members, six adminis­which provided that a quorum trators, nine undergraduate consist of five members from students, two graduate students each of the Council's constituent and one representative from the groups. law school. A proposal had been made to change the section so the only The second proposal intended 2/3 of the members of the to amend Jones' proposal and Council would constitute a provided for retaining the cur­
quorum. The Council at times rent membership of 8 faculty, 8 has had difficulty in obtaining a students, 8 administrators and, quorum in instances when one in addition, seat three graduate 
members of a particular group student representatives and a Jaw had to• leave the meeting, or school representative. 
US advisers play unclear role 1n Viet attacks on Cambodia 
What role the American 
(continued [rom page 1) 

"advisers" were playing was not and supply depots in Cambodia, 
explained. 35 miles west of Saigon. Disclosure of open U.S. invol­
The South Vietnamese De­vement in military ground opera­fense Ministry said the army's tions in Cambodia aroused im­general staff "requested and has mediate protest in Congress. got the support of the American Senate Democratic leader forces in combat support, logis­Mike Mansfield said the action tics assistance and medical eva­"lays the groundwork for escala­cuation, etc." tion of the war and could be the 
Neither in Washington nor in first step in spreading of the Saigon would officials state war." whether U.S. military advisers He added: "Cambodia is a were actually taking part in new ball game. If we become ground operations, although involved directly or indirectly, it Pentagon sources said Americans becomes a general Indochina would be involved in air opera-war." tions over Cambodia. The White House said Nixon's 
U.S. military spokesmen in broadcast message, to be deliver-Saigon did say that no American ed at an undetermined hour ground troops were involved and tonight, would "discuss the that U.S. support consisted entire situation in Cambodia as primarily of helicopters, tactical it relates to both Cambod,ia and 
n=a=ir=st:r:::ik:e:::::::s::::::::an::d::::::::=:::::::!iilliiiili!!==i.!!!U•.S•.•f=o=r=ce=s=l=·n=V=ie=t=n=a=m=.'='===R 
ND-SMC 
TYPISTS 
AND ''UNSKILLED LABOR" 
HAVE MONEY WILL PAY 
N.D. Student Union Publications 
3 to 12 hours per week. Pick your own hours. Call: Scott Braley 
283-1403 283-6637 233-0842 283-6137 

PAGE 4 
THURSDAY. APRIL 30. 1970 






THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. De SAPIO, Publisher 
DAVID C. BACH, .Editor 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

Editorial: 

Free City Day 
Tomorrow, Free City Day, is intended both as a day of celebration and festivity and as a time to raise serious and imaginative questions about the quality of education that we receive at Notre Dame. At other campuses, educational reform has been an explosive issue; at Notre Dame the serious questioning and dialogue has remained on a limited scale. More than any other issue, educational reform should attract the attention of the students, faculty, administrators, alumni, and parents. 
Tomorrow's activities allow for the faculty that are sincerely concerned about students and the quality of education here to talk to students on an informal basis. The day's activities provide an opportunity for Father Walsh and the other administrators to learn from the students that are interested in discussing change. And Free City Day permits the students to demonstrate to the faculty, administrators, and trustees, that they are concerned on a large scale about innovative educational reform. 
This discussion and concern is to be set against an atmosphere of enjoyment and festivity. The questions that have many times been asked in anger or disappointment can be raised tomorrow in a more conducive mood. 
Tomorrow is an opportunity to "turn Notre Dame into a free city of the mind." Concern on the part of students or faculty or administrators is vital if Notre Dame is to become the great Christian university that it has the potential to become. 


Cotton Bowl money 
.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::~:~:::::::~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::;:::::::::::: 
It is an unfortunate situation that the University was spent, and by whom, in order to see if has made repeated promises, with few results in $130,000 was a reasonable sum. There has also the area of minority enrollment/recruitment. This been speculation about alumni clubs who con-is not withstanding the fact the ND has been tributed towards financing parts of the expense, as applauded for its action of going to the Cotton well as towards speculations on over-expenditures. Bowl for the express purpose of helping minority If this speculation holds fruit, it would be students, and also not withstanding the fact that inconsistent with the reason for going to the bowl Fr. Hesburgh is Chairman of the US Civil Rights game, i.e. to aid those who are in need of the Commission. From this latter fact it would seem funds. ND would reap many more benefits for minority Another consideration is the fact that many students than it has. This is but one of many black students already in attendance are suffering interesting paradoxes at ND. from lack of financial aid. These students must be 
Two weeks ago, months after the bowl, the taken care of. The question is, will they be taken receipts were announced. The first consideration care of first, or in combination with the incoming here is that this delay in announcing the totals will freshmen class, or will the latter class be taken care hurt certain potential freshmen, who have been of first. Either way, it will be extremely difficult awaiting word on financial aid. (Univ. has accepted to meet these financial needs. Present upper­150 so-called minority students, with only a few classmen, many of them seniors to be, are confirmations thus far.) Now the University, in the contemplating their futures at ND because of crucial time of college confirmations has announc-financial crisis. When approaching the Admin­ed the available funds. A second major thought istration they have been given promises of here is that the funds themselves are in definite financial assistance. However, it is apparent that shortage. The Univ. as well as many of the the needs are many, the funds are few. students here have engaged in an accelerated Therefore, we are in a situation of wondering recruitment program to attract as many 'so-called' where will more funds come from? Forty minority students as possible under the assump-thousand dollars a year will in no way suffice both tion the funds would be available. This was no present and incoming minority students. ND has delusion on our part. Fr. Hesburgh had often stated a commitment to attract and provide for expressed that any minority student in want of more minority students. It does not appear that financial assistance would not be lacking. From this commitment will be met. There has been talk the Cotton Bowl, in general figures just released, of " a balancing act", and "taking things as they the Univ. received $210,000 for the for mentioned come." This has been done for too long. the purposes. Of this, $50,000 is to be used to sponsor suggestion to use the money over two years the Black Studies program. Without financial instead of four is not an irresponsible action at this expertise, but realizing what is needed to finance a time. The irresponsibility comes in when the Black Studies program, I do not see how this university promises and states that it will take care program will be adequately funded, considering of incoming and present black students in need of that possily one-half will be given to the Director assistance. The argument is well taken, though, for a salary, while quite a bit of what is left will go that money for the third year of studies possibly towards staff salaries. With the remaining will not be available. there is no assurance that we 
$160,000 the Univ. has under the title of 'financial will go to another bowl game, or that a new stability and responsibility' contracted for 4 year-Administration would be "as amenable" to helping $40,000 scholarship awards. Again, with the large minority students as the present one. But new number of acceptance~and knowing how much is money has to be found now. needed to finance a Callege career, the money These promises must be kept. Today the made available is only a drop in the bucket. trustees will arrive and I plan to reaffirm this issue 
There has been much questioning about the alone, with the parietal hours proposal. Lastly, if $130,000 used for expenses by the various groups Notre Dame is ever going to become a community, who traveled to the Cotton Bowl. I have already I can only envision one with the black, brown, and respectfully asked for an itemized statement of female students as community members­expenditures from Fr. Joyce. This has been members which are not financially harried. What denied. I sawthe need -to see how much money type of a community do the trustees envision? 



A IA.Ioi'.O OF AOVICE" 
SoN; SOMEn"'1£S IT Do~'T PAY Tc;> <ro OFF' BADMOVTHIN 1 
P~oPt..t! 

J"US' 'CAUSE" 7Jif:"f DoN'' A a Re;:-e­
W11'1 y'OCJ .' 


Prophets 
======;~=~=;~~~~~===i~~~:=;~===~rt~=~~/i~~==~=~=~~:==~~=~=~=~~~~r~===:~~~==~r~~~~~\=~ 
predicting the future course of world affairs. "If we do this, the result will be disaster, if we do that it will help the cause of freedom, etc." 
The funny thing is that no one ever really seriously looks back and checks out the prophecies of the past against present reality, except an occasional article writer who does this to provide an interesting sidelight on some famous personality. But certainly we ought to do what we can to learn lessons from the past, and a valuable lesson ought to be learned from recent events which have bearing on at least one major prediction made a while back: the domino theory. 
The idea that a communist victory in South Vietnam would lead to further communist success elsewhere in Southeast Asia was used as one of the main bulwarks in defense of U.S. policy in Vietnam. 
From the beginning of the anti-war movement this argument came under bitter attack from its chief prophets for a variety of reasons, the main one of which was that it supposedly misunderstood the very essence of the Vietnamese conflict, that is, the fact that it is a civil war. Because the Vietnamese communists were involved in a civil war, the argument ran, their only interest was the establishment of a just regime in Vietnam, not elsewhere. And if this was truly their only interest, then the domino theory was simply a false analogy. 
The confirmation or rejection of these opposing ideas has come earlier than might ordinarily be expected, even before the end of the war in Vietnam. For it is clear now that communism in Vietnam is indeed interested in furthering communist power beyond the boundaries of Vietnam, and that communist power in that country is endangering the regimes of other Southeast Asian countries. Laos has been divided between indigenous Pathet Lao communists and a "neutralist" government for years, but a major change has occurred in recent times for the bulk of communist strength in Laos is now provided by the North Vietnamese Army. Cambodia has hitherto experienced minor troubles, but now for the first time is facing serious internal strife, occasioned by the presence of many North Vitnamese troops within its borders. The communist threat was so pointed, in fact, that it led to the overthrow of longtime Cambodian leader Prince Sihanouk. 
This is not an argument for (that favorite liberal whipping boy) "monolithic communism." Obviously there are different varieties of communism and obviously national differences effect the way that 
communist regimes act in the world. I am merely noting an empirical fact: that Vietnamese communists whether or not they are nationalists before they are communists -are interested in furthering communist power beyond the boundaries of Vietnam. This fact is one of many that supports the idea that while there are definitely different communisms, there are qualities which tend to appear pretty consistently in all of them, for example, an ideological and expansionist nature manifested in concrete attempts to spread their power and ideology. 
What will be the argument of anti-warriors now that there is undeniable proof that Asian communists will attempt to translate power in Vietnam into power in other nations? Some will revert to isolationism undoubtedly -"so what if all of Southeast Asia falls to communists; they're not any worse than we western imperialists, and why should we care what happens thousands of miles away anyway?" Others will come up with discoveries of new social injustices and claim that this has produced new "civil wars" (which the North Vietnamese communists have decided to assist, out of the goodness of their disinterested little hearts). Many will use the same old arguments, ignoring the same old -and some new -facts. Most however will simply ignore all the practical realities of the situation, because they are too wrapped up in their moral diatribes to observe (or admit) the effects of their positions on the practical realities of world affairs. Having once proved their failure as prophets, they will avoid similar, repeated embarassments -by merely ignoring the future. 
THURSDAY, APRIL 30, 1970 THE OBSEIWER PAGE 5 
Phantom of the Opera but not just to laugh 
by T. C. Treanor 
Observer Features Editor 
The Phantom 
The Phantom is more than dead. He is 

extinguished. He had better have been 
never-born. lie is dead, and what remains 
has been distorted, and perverted, and 
rendered laughable. 
lie's dead, and so is Frankenstein, and 

Count Dracula; beaten to death by a 
hundred encounters with Abbot and 
Costello and The Three Stooges and ten 
thousand remakes. 
lie's dead, and who is left to take his 

place? A couple of medium -good 
psycho-dramas; mostly, though. The 
Beast who Ate Cleveland, The Robot 
Haters, I was a Teanage Pineapple, ad 
nausem, and llarrold Carswell. 
lie wasn't subtle. lie wasn't subtle at 

all, and perhaps that's why he is dead. 
And, God, he was ugly! lie was brutally 
ugly; and when he cried, he cried bitter 
tears, and when he hate'd, he hated blood, 
and when he loved, he loved forever. 
Alone, or in the context of those who lived his times, he was an imposing figure. He's frightened and dominated those around him. Yet he was a man, a mortal and hence unbelievable. He was an escape 
from Dcvil's Island, purportedly crimi­
nally insane. 
But admill!;t Omar Sharif and George 

Hamilton and Phil Oachs The Phantom is 
nothing more than a vaguely amorphous 
anachronism. And when people laugh at 
him, he becomes a joke. 
The Phantom is making the rounds once again; this time, in the Badin Vintage Cinema (this weekend.) lie and a lot of other people; Christine Daae', the Opera singer he woos; her suitor; the owners of the opera he haunts. Strong he comes, too, and ominous, wearing and holding a nobility of soul that no one else, for all their surface finery and physical attractiveness, can either parallel or comprehend. 
The Phantom dwells in a Paris opera-house that stands above dungeons, torture houses and other remainders of 


medieval times. As the film opens, the old place is being sold to new owners. A word panel flashes--it's a silent film, incidentally, if you didn't know already 
"You will possibly hear that this place is haunted ... " and the new owners respond jovially. 
But the place is haunted, and no one is more haunted than the young under­study, Christine Daae'. A bitter Phantom wants her -wants her love; wants her devotion and offers to make her the world's greatest opera singer. (The pro­cess of offering and acceptance is left to 
Another Swiftie by Ed Ellis 

A Modest Proposal for 
As a result of certain recent events, climaxing a trend I see as having developed over the past year, I have decided to present for the perusal of the informed hierarchy of this University, (also the Board of Trustees, should they concern themselves with this matter), a modest proposal for the alleviation of the multitudinous difficulties occasioned by the inexplicable attempts of the University Board of Trustees to exert various forms of control over the students of the University. 
My proposal and its benefits I shall present shortly, but first I should like to describe the momentous series of events that has drawn me from my frisbee game and projected analysis of 3-dimensional tic-tac-toe to the forum of public affairs. These events center about the attempts by the Board of Trustees to effect control over the Student Body, contrary to their acknowledged raison d 'etre. The real reason for the existence of the Board probably exists only in the mind of Fr. llesburgh and his fellow absentee landlords, but observers close to the situation assure me that control of the University was not one of the reasons. The one generally acknowledged to be true is that the Board of Trustees was established in order to name certain buildings or. campus after members o{ the group. Evidence for this view abounds on the campus north of the Administration Building, e.g. Grace llall, LaFortune Student Center, and it's even rumored that when the current gold-leafing wears off the Administration Building itself, the undercoatof metal will be permitted to oxidize in the elements and the building will be renamed "Rustin Dome," after the Trustee of that name. Supporters of this view of the Trustees cite the fact that the most useless building on campus was named after the Sultan of the Trustees, Mr. Stepan. 
At any rate, if the Trustees were formed for the purpose of naming buildings, then we can immediately see that they've gone outside the realm of the imagination. So is the Phantom's 
rationale. Perhaps he loved her for all the 
vowels in her name. It certainly wasn't 
for her good looks. Or for her ability as a 
pantominist.) 
Letters of warning are given to the 
prima donna's mother and to the owners 
of the Theater, but they go unheeded. In, 
ironically, a performance of Faust lights 
flicker, grow dim -· and the huge center 
chandelier falls crashing to the floor. The 
management has no choice. They must go 
with Ch£istine. 
So the Phantom, responsibile for the 
tragedy, comes to collect his bride. And 
she, who has never seen his face, is ready 
to go. "Walk to the mirror," he instructs, 
and as she does the mirror swings open to 
admit her to a labyrinth-land, creaking 
and moaning. And then the Phantom 
touches her. 
He wears a mask, but the terror of his 
face shines through. He begs; implores ­she comes; down stairs in an underground city until they reach a black horse; the horse trundles slowly to an unlit Styx. Dirge like they travel; Pluto and Proserpine, until they reach the Phan­tom's home. And there, after being given gifts and tenderness to the full degree of the Phantom's capacity -"It was you · who brought the love out of me...it was 
you who brought the good out of me--" 
she removed his disguise. 
It would be pointless to categorize the 
Phantom's ugliness. He was truly horrible. 
He had no lips! and his bony face 
bespoke death. 
Promising to remain faithful to the Phantom, she pleads to be released. The Phantom agrees, demanding, however, that she not see her suitor, a suave, debonaire, not-too-bright Count or some­thing. Naturally, the first thing she does is 
contact the Count. And the Phantom 
writhing and snarling, watches them plot 
to escape to England. 
Recapture of the heroine, murder of an incidental, the chase, the battle; the whole pattern for horror movies of the · next three decades grim, fast-paced savage and bitterly and inexlorabJy;1just. 
But the grim justice is tempered''by the ·.,, mercy-the Phantom's mercy .. For the Phantom is the hero. He, and he alone, is a passionate man. He bargained for a woman's love, but he bargained justly and fairly and out of a real need. lie captured the woman he loved when she betrayed him, but he did it with dignity; and only because he knew that he needed her love to drag him out of the dungeon he was trapped in. Only he acted from depth of emotion. 
Only he had a soul. Perhaps the only reason he had a soul was because he was played by Lon Chaney. Chaney .s talents, even in a silent film, rise high above his colleagues­particularly his leading lady, Mary Philbin, whose repertoire of facial expres­sions ranged from disgust to disgust. Even when she smiled she looked disgusted. In addition, she was probably cross-eyed. 
Bad news. 
The other actors, Norman Kerry, Arthur Edwin Carewe, and a task force of ballerinas showed no particular brilliance and the cinemotology was poor indeed, at spots the film looked like a poor home movie--but Chaney transcended all that. He had an important statement to make about the nature horror and the nature of man, and he did. And hedid it proudly. 
Phantom of the Opera. Go and see it. But not just to laugh. 


Acceptance of and Humble Submission to the Decree of Sultan Stepan 
their power in their unilateral decrees on student life. What started out as an ego trip has degenerated into a vain attempt at long-distance, frustrated parents. The recent action of the Trustees, apparently designed to make the ampus safe against fornication and other assorted nasty practices of youthful types, has succeeded (if not in protectionism) in squelching the concept ot hall autonomy and in forcing regressive behavior on the part of the students. And of course we must contrast the maturity of pouting Trustees (who maturely rejected all recommendations of people closer to the school than Florida), with the childish honesty and forthrightness of the Hall Presidents and the Student Life Council, who presented detailed rationales for the obviously immature policy of hall autonomy. 
The actions which have made such a proposal as I will present necessary are the declarations of defiance to paternalism made by some 18 of the halla on campus. 

Now one might at first consider the most appropriate reaction to a treat such as the Board of Trustees now presents to be rejection and a demonstration of support for Student Body President Dave Krashna. But one also ought to consider the nature of the individuals one is dealing with. These are not immature, peevish, fools like our leaders. They are mature, independent men, whose idea of a concrete contribution to society is to have a building named after themselves or to bully kids around with a title. I submit Tonight is the Night of Blues. that our best interests dictate submission At eight PM in Washington Hall, and agreement to their most extreme Robert Pete Williams and the Luther paternalistic impulses, and that we Allison Blues Band will appear in joint petition the interested members of the concert, and people will hear them at University (possibly the Trustees also) to $1.50 a shot -CAF patrons free. admit only sons of the Trustees to the A guitarist, Williams, (above) has been various colleges. This would justify the around a long time, but he wasn't imaginary apron-strings connecting bleak, recorded until the 1950's, when folklorist blizzardly, South Bend with sunny Dr. Harry Oster heard him in Angola Florida. Prison. Since then, he has appeared in the Not unlike the Trustees, Mr. Ellis will Newport Folk Festival, Berkeley Blues reserve his rationale for tomo"ow 's Festival, and the San Diego Folk Festival. 
article -ed. 


He's also toured Europe with the American Folk Blues Festival. His pe­cialty: his countrapuntal counterpoint rhythm. 
The Luther Allison Blues Band will also be here, and after this concert~'fill leave immediately for Madison, Wiscon­sin, for a concert with Sly and the Family Stone. 
Both Williams and Allison have receiv­ed invitations to appear at the 1970 Ann Arbor Blues Festival in August. 

PAGE6 711B OBSERJIM THURSDAY, APRIL 30, 1970 
Musial explains limits 

Campus Opinion
of educational theories 
(continued [rom page 1)  education is both intellectual  problems, it is time to learn the  ~::::::;:::;:;::;:;:::;;;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: Edited by Glen Corso  
The teacher must also develop  and moral. It helps a student  educative role of people; enough  The following is John Barb's comments on President Nixon's  
in his students the ability to  understand what he ought to do  about logic, it is time to learn  recent order, which ended all occupational deferments. This will be  
engage in second order reflection to evaluate the experiences and  l·n l1'fe and what the different• consequences are of the  the educative function of love·, enough about how to accumu­ the first in a series of papers concerning the aspects of the militarywhich affect students.  
the ideas they have shared.  different choices he may make.  late facts, it is time to order and  
There are many meaningful  The teacher therefore shares  establish values. This is not to  Jim's an engineering -student. His number? 123. But he's not  
experiences in life; many that  most experiences with his  say that my idea or organization  sweatin it. I know, because I'm an engineering student too. As a  
are important to be exposed to;  students vicariously, with a view,  of humanistic learning will not  matter of fact, most of the companies I've interviewed with were  
many which must extend the  first, to understanding or feeling  have an ample share of the  fairly certain of getting deferments for their new employees. (Union  
self and help it grow. A teacher  them in the way a great author  discipline which the German  -Carbide lost only 2 out of 83 sales trainees last year.) One of the  
cannot be responsible for  or artist would have them  institutions have developed, or,  trainees I ate lunch with on roy last plant trip filled me in on how  
providing his students with all of  understood or felt, and then  what in general may be des­ the company fixed him up. Before he graduated they wrote a letter  
these experiences. (He cannot,  analyzing them, evaluating them,  cribed as objective, scientific,  to his local draft board requesting a critical deferment. The letter  
for example, be instrumental in  and helping the student relate  knowledge. But objective, scien­ implied that if he were taken off assignment, a defense project  
a student's falling in love, getting  them to his own experience: The  tific knowledge (or its fellow,  would be in jeopardy; thus his position trainee was in technical sales.  
married, or becoming a parent,  only first-hand experience that  professional skill) must exist  Ha! Ha! Ha!  
no matter how significant each  the teacher can really give the  along side of other personal and  Then came Nixon's declaration ending occupational deferments.  
or any of these experiences  student is the educative model  affective refinements, and within  Now Jim is sweatin it. (Company recruiters are sweatin it even more.  
might be as the basis of the  that he himself provides-the  a larger scope of understanding  They had the lottery licked.) Now all is lost.  
growth and development of the  testimony of his own life to the  which maintains viable values for  All is lost. Four years of solid bookin it. From Emil T., to Dr.  
whole person.) The teacher's  value of what he teaches.  humane living. These I hold to  Anthony and Miller, thru statics, dynamics, calculus, Diff. E.Q.,  
role, rather, has to do with what  Is there a need for specific  be the objectives of humanistic  solids, transport phenomenon, thermo, and process control. Endless  
prompts the responsible  educational reforms? I think the  learning and teaching, and they  hours in the library, and in the room at the old desk. All those  
evaluation of experience, and  model of the German university  are the principles which guide  endless lab reports, not to mention the time spent in the lab itself.  
how action ought to be guided  has taught us enough about  the contributions 1 hope to  All down the drain. Hell, Jim says he might as well have been a jock.  
'by understanding It is in  knowledge, it is time to learn  make to the Notre Dame com- Who does Nixon think he is anyway?  
this sense that humanistic  knowing; enough about  munity.  Of course Jim's predicament isn't typical of all engineers. No,  

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ilicre~Rzy,whoplann~m~~~~Khocl.Ye~~k~wili~ 
grad school deferments were shakey, but there was a way around 
that --it's called a full time research assistantship draft deferable 
whereby a student is employed by the universlty for research 
purposes. Under this plan a student can also work on his graduate 
degree. Well, since legally, a university is considered a corporation, 
the draft deferable research assistantship is no longer draft deferable 

FASTDRAW,l'M GIVIN' 
AFTER FtVE HJ 1HE 
no longer "vital to the security of the United States." '
Yv~ 1HREE MINUTES 
Hell, if there was a place

fEVENtN! lCAN GET 
for engineers in the Army, it wouldn't be so bad, but Jim and Ray
10 GlTOtiTA\OWNI 

will be thrown into infantry with everyone else. What a waste; an
' 

J OUTA' iOWN fOR 
engineer doesn't belong in a damn swamp; that's for... Four years of study; hard study; there's no kidding about that.
-rt1REE MINUTES 
There wasn't time for campus politics, or WSND, or theatre, or discussion groups, or lectures, or CPA or Y AF, or weekend parties­oh the weekends were free, it was settin up the date that was a bear.
FoR LESS'N A~~jJ 
There just wasn't time. A CAF card or a Cinema 70 card was a real 
investment -no telling when an important test was coming up.
BV OIAL\N' ?tRECT/. 
There were even a few missed banquets, and technical lectures on 

what an engineer does oll 'che job -but there were so many tests. 
Tests, tests, tests, lab reports, tests, tests. (Maybe Dick Gregory is right when he says that tests are becoming the most Important tnmgs at college today.) 
Yes, for a lot of engineering students, not being able to pull that $900/month starting in June is a hard blow to take, especially after four years directed toward that goal. Granted, however, that most engineers are not the money-hun~y, pseudo-student-trainee, apathetic members of the university community that some would stereotype them to be. It's just that the engineering student really doesn't have the time to get involved. An engineer can get a true education, as soon as he realizes that there's more to college than text books and a sliderule. 
Jim won't get his deferment, and neither will Ray. Maybe their futures are ruined. But what about the kid who couldn't get into college, or even take high school algebra, or chemistry, or physics, who never even had the chance to think about such things as an occupational deferment, or a full time research assistantship'! Ya, what about the kid who went to work full-time in that steel mill or with the street department. 
Everyone pretty much agrees, that now the draft system is more equitable; that, afterall, engineers should not in fact be treated as priveleged characters. The question comes up though, as to why it took so long for government officials to wake up to the fact that a college engineering degree shouldn't be used as a criteria in determining who does this country's dirty work. 
Graduating engineers are now getting drafted just like everyone else. At least though, they've got four years of college under their belt. And who knows -the war in Nam may be over 3 years from now if one is presently a freshman. The war is still very much far away unless of course, Congress has the nerve to throw out all college student deferments...who do they think they are anyway? 
Carroll Hall Going Out of

Art Students -Courses avail­
Business Sale! Recently ac­

able in Art at the Louvre in Paris and Florence, Italy; Contact 
quired inventory of used Roger Coonrod for prices, time 
women's clothing. Must sell 

Get outta town without leaving campus. Dial Direct. 
and credit at the Morris Inn. 
before May 28th. BE FIRST 

The lowest long distance rates are in effect every 
IN LJNE! Room 505 Carroll. school night and all day Saturdays. 

Hair Styling 
for ND men the Continental Way 
Razor Cutting & Style
@ Indiana Bell 
European Layer Shaningfor Long_Hair 
Have Lon,g Hazr & Let Miss Treva & The Baron 
Be Well Groomed Serve & Pamper You 
Use your long distance calling number. Save time. 
Continental Hair Styling
Dial your own calls. 
306 Sherland Bldg. 
South Bend, Ind. Student Rates 
234-0811 
By Appt. 


'I 

THURSDAY, APRIL 30, 1970 
THE OBSERJJER. 
PAGE 7 

CPA to present various demands; 
maY stage maS!" !!Jm!!~ th~~"'k~rida!, oxploit•tion '"
"'"'"'"' 
0 

Plans for a demonstration at war crimes". students. Several times in the Also, the CPA wants "women, Latin America. the trustee's meeting Friday Also, the meeting decided to past the trustees have received the working class, and minority Following the teach-in, there were tentatively set last night in support any actions by other similar requests and they have groups represented in the the will be a vigil in the hall's a meeting attended by a group groups which planned a protest always refused. university in proportion to their meditation room with a mass at of students representing various at the trustees' meeting. Also, the Coalition for Poli-representation in the society as? midnight and the dedication of political views_ The meeting began with a tical Action released demands it whole. Grace Hall tower to the 
When the meeting, marked by short discussion on the possi-· hopes to have presented to the Another demand states than people of Latin Amenca who a lack of unity or decisiveness, bility of a protest by several trustees. The demands include "The present Board of Trustees· were exploited and whose work broke up at midnight, it had South Bend labor unions, who "the right of working class .. should be replaced by a board provided the money to build the been decided to hold a rally have complaints against the youths to a free, quality college with a composition consistent dorm. around Friday, along with a University. education," since " the uni-~~!.h .. the or_inr.inle that peoQle Several members of the South "people's court" which would Then, the discussion turned to versities were built with taxes hav~, the r~ght to mak~ the Bend chapter of the Women's concern itself with "American plans for having the trustees and corporate profits extracted dectstons which affect therr own Liberation movement appeared
• f c • t D 
lives." briefly at the meeting, with signs 
NUttl.ng praises ree I y ay Jackson, of the
Ernie head protestingthemalesupremacismA!ro-American society, said that at Notre Dame. 
his group had definite plans for According to Dr. Nutting, the back to research and writing. "As the day, and urged the meeting The rationale for the rally on 
(continued from page 1) 
student where the veteran pro­student is often regarded as the long as the teacher has that to be more decisive, saying Friday, as stated by Chrisfessor found much to be sesired. 
•"enemy" who will try to get the schoolboy-schoolmaster atti­"don't he afr.:~id nf what's ~U"~inP., Otenweller, is that "we do notIn fact, the word he used to better of the teacher if he can. tude, there can be no respect, let to happen. That's not revolu· accept he trustees' position indescribe their plight was They arc thought of as being alone love." tionary. You're here to change the University and society, as"pitiful" "hard to fashion" and as people Some people have told the the University." they control the lives of us andTo make his point, that the who resist being taught anything. veteran teacher that this idea of Jackson said that he was other members of society."
student is not respected, he 
Taking exception to the con­respecting the students is crazy. afraid that the people at the
related to his audience typical Student-Body President Dave
CP.p_! _of education as "for­They have told him that the meeting would "Blow the thing
conversations of some faculty Krashna revealed late last night
mation?" the General Program students would take advantage and jeopardize others' plans."
members. He noted that when that he will ask the chairman of
Professor exclaimed "to say of him. It is OK he has been told Jackson concluded by saying
they get together, the topics the Board of Trustees, Edmund
that ...is prettv crude... I , to pretend to show respect as a that his organization would have 
center on two groups -the Stepan, for an open meeting of
wouldn't care for it." pedegogical device, but not to alter its plans, so as not to be 
administration and the students. the trustees sometime Friday
It was for another group that really respect them. Nutting interfered with by the less 
While accepting criticism of the· afternoon. Krashna said that the
Nutting saved his sarshest words dismissed this suggestion as militant people. 
former as a fact of life no matter student government, per se,
of the evenings. "In the most crass ~ypocricy Professor James Douglass re­
how good and condition of the would not call for a rally or any
and crude circles," he said, "the vealed plans for a teach-in at 
teachers is , the professor could demonstration on the part of the
student is a nuisance." He Grace Hall on Friday at 7:0
"Every studnet is really
not accept some of what was: students.
maintained that some prosessors 
worthy of respect," he added,
said about students. 
feel that in order to live thiey 
"every student is in very many ways my equal and in a lot of
Discuss panty raids 
ways my superior and it is only being honest to recognize it." 
SENIOR
(continued [rom page 1) . -/ /I v 
To clarify his point, Professor 
the dorm to the raiders and doors and windows for boys to 
Nutting cited example of how 
confronting them on a personal gain entrance during a raid, SMC 
students have often stimulated 
WEEK
level in a unity of opposition student leaders said that "males 
him by asking questions about 
non-violently. are not permitted above the 
matters he had never considered 
She said that if each girl ground floor of the residence 
and by recommending readings
opened up her door and stood halls without permission. Any 
to him. On the other side of the 
right outside the door, doing girl responsible for a violation of 
coin he asked the audience if 
May 4th -May lith
nothing, the excitement of the this regulation shall be subject to 
they have the ever heard a 
situation would not rise to such the judicial system." 
teacher expound on a topic of 
a pitch that boys would barge In order to solve the real 
obviously know nothing about 
into girls rooms and remove the problem between ND and SMC 
or observe teacher and and who 
girl's belongings or even the girl which was described as a 
"doesn't like to say he doesn't 
herself. "warped situation" the students 
Dancing -Drinks
know know the answer and stalls 
Another procedure for future government made two proposals 
so he lets you know he doesn't 
panty raids, drawn up by the Le to alleviate the problem in the 
know it." Mans Hall director, was circu-future. Applying his ideas to Notre latcd at the meeting. This "Recognizing the unhealthy 
-Food
Dame, of which he had said 
proposal stipulated that all girls environment that is responsible 
earlier "I'd rather be here than should be in their rooms with for the situation which exists 
any place else I know of." Dr. 
doors and windows locked and between NO and SMC students, 
Funning thinks that an increase
lights out. we feel steps must be taken to 
in respect for seudents will help
alleviate the problems as well as 
Good Times
Anyone, except the student make the university a Christian
the symptoms of this situation.
government officers and mem­
comjunity.bers of the Hall Council, who 
They recommended: was present in the hall would be 1. To remedy situations subject to judicial action. prohibiting the development of 
The following cities have possible summer job
Both of these proposals were posttive normal relationship be­defeated and the group decided tween ND and SMC students we to let each hall government propose that steps should be 
openings in co-operation with the Federal Work/Study
adopt its own procedure of taken toward investigation of conduct for residents during a co-educational dormitories, panty raid because of the differ­construction of a Student cen­
Program
ent situation in each hall. ter, open access to either cafe­
Concerning the prosecution of teria and radical steps toward girls involved in getting the boys academic integration. into the dorms and opemug 2. We propose an investigation doors for them, student govern­of student sentiment regarding ment, leaders said that channels the adoption of an open dorm 
SYRACUSE, SAN FRANSISCO, BOSTON, 
will be made open for a resident policy, and if sentiment is of any hall to prosecute indivi­favorable it should be imple­duals that participate in the raid. mented immediately:· 
ATLANTA, INDIANAPOLIS, MINNEAPOLIS,
The St. Mary's Judicial Board 
~=:::::::t.l 

will hear any cases. At the suggestion of Notre Dame SBP, David Krashna, the 

DAYTON AND NEW YORK 
girls approved the idea of prose­cuting those boys involved in the 
MEETING TONIGHT

panty raid who could be identi­fied. The boys would be tried by 
April 30 at 7:30p.m. in room 1-E of the the ND judicial reviewing board. 
La Fortune Student Center to discuss these Concerning the Immediate 
possibilities. If unable to attend, Contact-problem of girls opening the 
MIKE McCAFFERTY
Students of French -Study in France this Summer -Study at 

URBAN STUDIES INSTITUTE
the Univ. of Paris (Sorbonne), U. of Grenoble and also U. of 
103 MEMORIAL LIBRARY
Neuchatel in Switzerland -Con· tact Roger Coonrod at the Morris 
Studio 

283-1112
Inn. 

1'22 N. Michioan 733 fi1!17 
·--­

711E OBSERfiER. THURSDAY, APRIL 30,1970
PAGE 8 

Irish do it again, beat Michigan 
by Jim Donaldson Michigan throw. Rob V oitier Chuck Horan brought home two beat out a bunt to give the Irish more runs with a sharp double
Observer Sportswriter baserunners on the corner sacks. before Phil Krill popped up toExploding for seven runs in Captain Nick Scarpelli then make the first Irish out. BiDthe seventh inning, the Fighting slapped a single to send Schmitz Orga followed Krill to the dishIrish baseball team defeated the home with the tying run. Joe and gunned a triple that platedU. of Michigan Wolverines 10-4 Keenan followed Scarpelli to the two more Irish baserunners.

yesterday at Cartier Field and plate and dropped a bunt to Orga scored the final Irish run of · notched their sixth straight vic­advance the runners. The Wol­the inning in thrilling fashion, bytory. Notre Dame now has a verines tried for a play at third stealing home. With the suicide7-10 record on the year. 

base but the throw was late and squeeze play on Orga got a goodThe Irish rapped six hits in Irishmen were occupying every jump towards the plate and,their big seventh inning which base with still no one out. when the throw from the mound brought them form a 4-3 deficit Rich Lucke kept things rolling was outside of the plate, Orgainto a commanding 10-4 lead. 
for the Irish by poking a single slid in safely. The WolverinesPitcher Ron Schmitz opened the 
were able to shut off the Irish
that scored Voitier with whatstanza by rapping a single and 
offense thereafter but the dam­
proved to be the winning run.
moving .to second on an errant 
age had been done. 
Sh I.eld ··················.·.·.·················-·...-.·· Ron Schmitz, who went the
5 .-.·.··········:·:·:···:·:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:·:-:-:·.···········-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:·.·········-~-·················
err ..................·...................
T Y distance, picked up the win for the Irish, his third against two losses. He fanned three and walked two while giving up eight 
The Irish Eye 
hits. The Irish cuffed three Michigan hurlers for 13 safeties Pete Helt, who had beaten the
-==~=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::::::::::==============:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:Humble P1e 
Irish earlier in the year at Ann Editors Note: This column is written as payment_ for a debt. Arbor, absorbed the loss for the When the writer was returning from the Dayton game zn February, 
Wolverines. 

Althoush BID Oqa missed this pitch, he hit one later that
The game was a see-saw
he called the driver of the returning car "craz~" f~r even wis_hing bounced off the right field fence for a triple and two rib's to cap a that the Chicago Black Hawks might finish fzrst zn the N~tzonal 
contest until the Irish blew it 
seven run sixth inning for ND. Orga stole home after this triple. 
open in the seventh. The Wol­verines were the first to put a field fence to put the Irish on
HOckey League's Eastern Division. The month of March zs now 
history and the Hawks finished on t~P-. . " , . . with two hits, one a round-trip­
top.

The New Jersey jock leaned back m his charr. Wow, said the dik marker on the scoreboard, tally­per, and three RBI's, Joe Keenan 
Schmitz was unable to hold
from Newark "that's the greatest period of hockey I've ever seen!" ing a run in the second frame. with two safeties, and Chuck
the lead though as the Wol­
The easterner' had just witnessed the second period of Sunday's game Pat Sullivan hit a two-out single Horan and Bill Orga each of
verines picked up a pair of runs
between the Black Hawks and the Boston Bruins. and scored on a long double to whom drove home a pair of
in the fifth inning to take a 3-2
The period had started out with the Bruins ?n top by a 3-1_ count left center by John Hornyak. advantage. runs. but the Hawks fought back to tie the score with some unvehevable The Irish moved into the lead The irish decided the issue After winning six straightskating by Dennis Hull. Now, after the Chitown team had struggled in the bottom of the third stanza once ·and for all with their seven games at Cartier Field since their way back into the contest, the Hawk rooters found that the on a two-run homer by Lucke. run seventh. playing their home opener Aprilbest skater in the world, "the Golden Jet" himself, Bobby Hull_was With one away, Scarpelli slapped Leading the Irish offense were 18, the Irish will lay their win 
in the penalty box along with a teammate watching the merciless a single. Joe Keenan hit into a Nick Scarpelli, with three hits streak on the liHe while playingBruins slap shot after shot at the Chicago net. fielder's choice but Lucke 
and three RBI's, Rob Voitier, at Ohio U. in Athens this Friday It was the supreme test for goalie Tony Exposito. Tony-0 along clouted a 345' shot over the left 
whp had three hits, Rich .Lucke and Saturday. with help from his teammate Keith Magnuson passe_d the tes! ~nd turned back shot after shot including a number by his older sibling Phil 
Voices from the crowd 
The Bruins went on to win the game as everyone knows, but in those few minutes the Black Hawks displayed that quality that is Editor: an obvious answer. What right inconvenience anyone but my­
has a security guard to expel a self. I don't have to use anyreserved for champions. They were beaten by a superior hockey student from the Convocation other room but the court. The
team but their effort will not be forgotten. Like the jock said, 
I would like to footnote the 
Center basketball court? I am a rights of a Notre Dame student
"Boston just keeps coming at you." . 
article about the Notre Dame 
1st year "female" graduate stu­have been denied to me becauseThis spirit that the Hawks displayed in the second penod of that
• Lacrosse Club that appeared in dent. Therefore, I have been I am a woman . 
contest was characteristic of their season. With Bobby Hull out of 
the Observer today. Even though
action at harassed not only because I am a I am not trying to start a.
the season's start, things looked rather bleak for those 
the club is student operated and 
student but also because I am a campaign. I simply enjoy basket­multitudes of Chicago rooters. The Hawks never gave up and by the 
coached, we could do nothing 
woman. ball and when my team plays I time the season was two-thirds over the Hawks appeared to have a 
without the aid of the Director 
In view of the usual campus would like to paiticipate.
good chance of making the playoffs but as far as finishing higher 
of Club Sports, Dominic Napoli­
disturbances overlooked each In an earlier Observer, Fr.
than third was concerned, forget it, baby. It looked as though those 
tano, and his staff, Tom Schmitt 
night, one must wonder why a M:Carragher issued a statementmean, brutal Bruins of Boston had a combination lock on the title 
and Tom Kelly, Thanks to them, 
guard would waste his time guaranteeing equal graduate stu­
spot. Surely it would take a miracle for the Hawks to even challenge we to any
have facilities equal 
evicting a peaceful student from dent rights to the ACC. Wouldthe Boston club. 
team in the Midwest (varsities 
University facilities. Male out­someone please inform the Secu­The miracle came but somebody forgot to keep their investment 
included-our facilities are better 
siders often use these facilities. rity Force. 
going "up there" and the Hawks finally tired after a tremendous 
than those of most schools 
I have played basketball forrush covering a month of hockey. Their pace was unstoppable. 
playing lacrosse) and, simply, we 
twelve years including four years Sincerely,Even though this writer is not a Chicago fan, it was sort of painful 
have not been denied any help 
at Villanova University. To play Name withheld by requestto watch such a "gutsy" team fold in so short a time. The Hawks are 
that they could possibly give us. 
at N.D., I do not have to
a relatively young club, however and they could very well be 
Without Nappy's support and
challenging the Bruins next year. 

encouragement, the club would
Tony-0, Dennis Hull, Chico Maki and Keith Magnuson make up a 
not have survived as long as it 
MAJOR LEAGUE.S
spectacular nucleus to provide Chicago fans with a solid team for 
has, and, with future support, on 
AMERICAN LEAGUE

years to come. Maybe some day such loyal rooters as "the driver" NATIONAL LEAGUE
a purely club level of competi­
will be treated to a total winner. 

tion, we hope to repay our debts East with greater success on the field. East w L Pet. GB
w L Pet. GB *Baltimore 12 5 .706
Chicago 13 4 .765My point is that there is no *Detroit 11 5 .688 y.
St. Louis 9 6 .600 3
IU clobbers ND 
Boston 10

danger of the club failing if it Pi•tsburgh 11 8 .579 3 8 .555 2Y. 
Washington 10 8

does not gain varsity status, but *Philadelphia 10 8 .556 3Y. .555 2Y. 
The Notre Dame tennis team Tom Duker defeated N.D.'s Gil Cleveland 7 10 .412 5
could compete better with the New York 9 9 .500 4Y.
took it on the chin Tuesday as Theissen 6-3, 6-2; IU's Walt best teams in our area if *Montreal 5 11 .313 7Y. New York 8 12 .400 5Y. 

Big Ten power Indiana defeated Herrick defeated Rob Schefter coached. The Athletic Depart­the Irish 9-0. The Irish went 6-2, 6-4; and Irish co-captain, ment is aware of what a coach Westinto the match with a 8-4 Bob O'Mally lost to Tom Snyder West
means to our team, hopefully California 
13 6 .684

record having won five of their Cincinnati 16 6 .728
6-4,6-0. they will be able to help us solve Minnesota 11 6 .647
San Fran.

last six. Notre Dame had played The day's most exciting 10 11 .476 5Y. Oakland 8 1 
·this problem soon. 11 .421 5
*Los Angeles 8 10 .444 6
Indiana in Washington D.C. over match was the first doubles *Kansas City 6
In the future, please consult *Atlanta 8 11 .421 6Y. 11 .353 6 
the Easter vacation and lost to between N.D.'s LeSage-Brown *Chicago 6 11 .353 6
with me about the team, so that Houston 7 14 .333 BY.
the Hoosiers 7-2. team and IU's Bishop--Parsons Milwaukee 5 14 .263 8
some of these oversights could *San Diego 6 14 .300 9The number one singles pitted duo. Bishop and Parsons won 
be avoided. Thank you very 
California 3 New York 2

N.D.'s Buster Brown against the match 4-6, 6-4,11-9. In Cincinnati 5 Houston 3 
much for your interest in Notre Minnesota 1 Cleveland 0 
Indiana star Mark Bishop. Buster the third set LeSage and Brown Chicago 10 Pittsburgh 5
Dame Lacrosse. Washington 4 Milwaukee 0 
had defeated Bishop in D.C., but had a match point only to have San Francisco 8 New York 6 
Boston 5 Oakland 3 

after a close first set Bishop the IU return hit the top of the St. Louis 5 Atlanta 1, 6th inn. 
Sincerely, Baltimore 13 Chicago 0, 5th inn.
Philadelphia at Los Angeles, night
controlled the match and won net and skip over their out­
Detroit 4 Kansas City 0, 6th inn.

Timothy McHugh Montreal at San Diego, night
10-8, 6-1. In the number two stretched rackets. In the re­Captain
singles Indiana's Chuck Parsons maining doubles matches IU's 
swept by Bernie LeSage 6-3, team of Snyder-Snively defeated Editor: 6-0. N.D.'s Mike Reilly took Greg Murray and Bob Schefter IU's Darrel Snively to three sets 8-6, 6-2; and the N.D. team of As a newcomer to the Notre before losing 4-6, 6-2, 6-3 in Tony Earlley-Jim Faught lost to Dame academic community, I the number three singles match. Dunker and Herrick 6-2, am writing to The Observer to In the other sinlges matches, 7-5. ask a question which may have 





