Primaries display major upsets 
(UPI)-Hubert H. Humphrey and Sen. Henry M. Jackson, (D. 
Wash.),  left  Negro  peace  
candidates  in  primary  defeat  
Wednesday,  four  antiwar  

challengers dumped two aging ' eterans of Congress from Massachusetts and Maryland in r.Jajor upsets. 
The Rev. Robert J. Drinan, v ho demanded an immediate t oop withdrawal from Vietnam, d feated Rep; Philip J. Philbin, 
(ll. Mass.), 72, a 14 term c'"·ngressman, and is favored to 
w:n election in November as the fi. >t Jesuit priest ever to sit in Cungress. 
Rep. Ge:orge H. Fallon, 68, who has served 26 years in Congress and is chairman of the powerful House Public Works Committee, has lost the Democratic Primary in Maryland to Paul S. Sarbanes, 37, a liheral state legislator with backing from organized labor and national antiwar broups. 
In the primary contests in six states, four incumbent Democratic Senators-Edward M. Kennedy , Mass.; Joseph D. Tydings, Md.; John 0. Pastore, R.I.; and Jackson-·sun,ivcd the primaries and former Vice President Humphrey advanced in his bid for a political comeback. 
HLtmphrey moved toward the center, defending the flag, law and order and a phased withdrawal from Vietnam to overwhelm Earl Crag Jr., a young black university instructor with strong antiwar 
views. Humphrey will fight Rep. Clark MacGregor, (R. Miss.), in November to succeed retiring Sen. Eugene J. McCarthy (D. Minn.), many of whose 1968 supporters had backed Craig. In Washington State, where the defense industry is the 

keystone of the economy, Republicans helped Jackson, a staunch supporter of the military, hand an easy Democratic primary defeat to Carl Maxey, a black lawyer from Spokane who blamed "a group of scared voters" for Jackson's win. 
Jackson faces state Sen. Charles Elicker, the Republican nominee, in his bid for a fourth term. 
Security carry firearms 
by Don Ruane 
A coI 1plaint by faculty mem­ci1emicaJ spray similar to Mace tacks behind the engineering ber that the security force is when they work the night shift building and in private rooms carryinr firearms was denied from 3 p.m. to II p.m. or 11 were also raised at the meeting. yesterd:ty by Director of Securi­p.m. to 7 a.m. Pears said the Pears said attacks behind the ty Arthur N. Pears. spray would most likely be used engineering hall occurred before 
A certain number of security during "lake patrol" when the last June and usually followed a 
:nembers carry sidearms includ­guards answer disorderly com­function in LaFortune Student ng two moonlight South Bend plaints along the lake shores. He Center. He added that no arrests police:nen. "These men are said most of these complaints 
trained and qualified in the use are caused by gangs from South have been made. of firearms,'' said Pears. He did Bend. Regarding attacks in private not Pweal t11e number of armed Pears said the East Gate post rooms, Pears ~·aid there were 
guards for S' curity reasons. has been boarded since May 8 three last spring with racial The co:nplaint was made when a group of youths drove overtones. One party was in­
during the .·..~acuity Senate meet­up, got out of their car, threw volved in two of the incidents. ing ruesday in the Center for rocks and a bottle through two The director added that arrests Con muing Education. The com­windows and a door. "It takes 
have been made relating to 
plai. ttant said the East Gate time to replace Thermo-pane robberies in student parking Security post was paneled with glass,'' said Pears. areas last spring. ply•vood because of frequent The entire door panel of the No reports of attacks have vanclalism and manned by armed post is covered with a sheet of been received by the security 
guards. plywood. One window has a office this year Pears said. 
Mr. Arthur Pears
'The men who carry sidearms plywood board approximately are in the field, They carry the one and a half feet by three feet we:~pons because they have to and the other is covered by a 
Amen explains Non Violence 
answer criminal complaints such tVvo foot by four foot board. 
mum.~ at large of which we gatht.r for three days to talk as someone tampering with cars There are no slits in the by F.ick Smith have only begun to scratch the about their various programs. 
in the parking lots,'' said Pears. paneling. Rev. Maurice Amen, C.S.C., 
Fr. Amen said that there had Secunty guards also carry a Complaints concerning at-newly appointed director of the been some difficulty in "dis­surface. I think that we can 
work and try to get some groupsProgram for the Study and that are not homogenous, that covering just what the bent in Practice of the Non-Violent 
there are groups in them that are tiJ.e program is." He referredKrashna recruits in Indy Resolution of Human Conflict, discussion groups that are out­specifically to last spring's Col­said in an interview today that side, kind of extracurricular. lege Council meetiing where the 
there were still "areas that have
by Dave r~1cCarthy tucks, Washington, Manuel, You have older people, couples, program's politica~ thrust was Chortridge, and Arsenal Tech­yet to be explored or were not questioned.
or wherever we can find thoseSBP Dave Krashna will be in 

nical High Schools. They will fully explored in the past," in "There will b1~ some who
that are interested in discussionIndianapolis today and Friday. 

introduce him to "core groups" relation to the program. of the possibilities of non­insist that that was the bent ofInitially invited to attend a 
of students believed to be "There are some remarkab le violence." the program. I'm not sure. IFriday afternoon Fall Faculty 
"eligible to go to Notre Dame," people with such a wide variety don't think you automatically
Symposium at the Indianapolis In relation to this idea, Fr.
he said. of backgrounds here, I think get into a political activism when
extension of Purdue University, Amen spoke of an expanded
He intends to discuss "the that if they are willing, and I you are going aftf~r a life style.
Krashna told the Observer that public relations operation in­
benefits Notre Dame can offer have had indications that some At least not immediately,'' he
he would also spend time re­volving the community at large.
to minority students," and he of them are; we could offer said.
cruiting minority stu' ents in five "There have been a few news­
cited the Black Studies Program slants to the program that have In explaining the possible
Indianapolis public high schools paper articles, but there has been 
as an example. not appeared thus far," Father theological bent which the pro­
as part of his Recruitment no open invitation to partici­
Intereste:d students will be Amen said. 
gram might take, Fr. Amen said, 
Action Program. pate. It is kind of a 'for your
invited to Notre Dame for a In the &rea of advice and "In so far as it is a life style, and
Krashna explained that he eyes only, read but don't come 
campus vi:sit and rector inter­direction, the rector of Flanner a life style that I don't think can
would meet with admissions and find out' thing."
views, he rt~marked. Hall suggested that "there are a be adequately Hved without
counsellors in the Crisnus At-Fr. Amen spoke of ways of
number of people here whom we
(Corztinued on Page 3) some sort of deep personal
having people indicating their 

can call upon who can share 
convictions and for most peopleinterest. He cited professors and
what they think are some these include def:p theological
their wives and acquaintances of

ossible crossovers between their 
convictions, I think it has asstudents as a start. "They are
iscipline and the area of non­
much a theologi·cal thrust as

Riots mar celel,ration 
there. It's just a matter of

violence. But we haven't even 
finding out where they are and any."
discovered fully those who are 
what will help them. I would During the pas1t summer, sixLOS ANGELES (UPI) --Sni­Junior College, whose trustees personally committed to non­love to get into a discussion of Notre Dame stud<:nts spent the per fire, rock throwing and fire­denied a Chicano organization violence. And there are some some of the potentialities of summer at a monastery in New bombings erupted in the nation's permission to use the stadium areas where I'm certain that York. All of these men werenon-violence and what it meanslargest Mexican American com­for a rally following the parade. there is a crossover in individual to live a non-violenct life with involved with the program. Fr. 
munity Wednesday night follow­After the initial confrontation lives." 
some of the office help and the Amen cited these men as the ing a peaceful and festive parade between deputies and the crowd Fr. Amen saw this year's 
help in the halls." "most immediate outflow of the to celebrate Mexico's Indepen­wehre tear gas was used, small program as "a continuing of the program."
Also, besides just the imme­

dence Day. bands roamed the area around discovery process to find out diate community, Fr. Amen "There's an element that you
At least 50 persons were ar­the campus and a park, starting what precisely it is that we can once
talked about expanding the have to discover further rested and six sheriff's deputies small fires and throwing rocks. be." 
nrogram's interests into the you get into non..violence, and were injured, including one by A Sheriff's Department In discussing the possibility of that is the elem1~nt of Chris­1 o:mtry at large. He pointed outgunfire. Tear gas was used a­pokesman said there were nu­expanding the program to in­Jor special notice a workshop to tianity, which is theological,''gainst one crowd estimated at nerous reports of sniper fire but clude people other than students Amen said. 
br• held in LaCrosse, Wisconsin more than 700 persons. rhat "it is hard to determine and professors, Fr. Amen said wne e people from high schools, Dr. Basil O'Leary, a newly-The apparent focus of the whether all of it was gunshots that he thought there is "beyond colleges and parishes are going to

violence was East Los Angeles and not firecrackers." the academic area the com-(Continued. on Page 2 
Page 2 
Thursday, September 17, 1970 
Civil war threatens Jordan peace 
affairs to continue," he said. estimate that the unific·,tion\MMAN, Jordan (UPI)-King Marshal Habes AI Majali, long 
governraent, headed by Premier 
Shortly after his gave Arafat command of ·tboutHussein of Jordan placed his considered by Palestinian 
Mohammed Daoud, an army 
announcement, leaders of I I 12,000 gut:rrillas and civiliangovernment in the hands of the guerrillas to be a major enemy. 
brigadier, Hussein out lined the 
Palestinian groups announced militia in Jorday. The Jo,danianRoayalist army Wednesday, and Majali, as commander in ;hi 
deteriorating conditions in 
their unification ur.•der the army has 55,000 men, ir.cluding
11 Palestinian guerrilla groups immediately appointed militazy 
.I or dan and said there was a 
military command of Arafat. three armored brigades equipped united under the military governors for all of Jr,rdan's 
conspiracy against the country. 
ThcP~ are not figures on guerrilla with tanks and armoredcommand of Yasser Arafat in districts. 
"\l.'e cannot allow this state of 
strength, but Palestinian sources personnel carriers.
twin moves which although Jord<~'l has been under maria! aimed toward peace threatened law since the 1967 Middle East to spark a civil war. 
War. 


Volunteer Service night set 
Arafat, chief of both the "The dang~>r to Jordan has Paiestinian Central Committee been growing ever large"' Besides student govanment, Sep lem ber 3 0, in the ~-r.1C din­tur of the Volunteer Servif:eS, 
said that the aim of the organiza­and the major commando unit, Hussein said in a five minute campus publications and hash­f•lg hall. 
tion is to "~et St. Mary's andslinging in the dining halls, St. Representatives fro .1 the Ur­
AI Fatah, accused Hussein of broadcast on Amman radio to l~otre Dame students involved in 
Mary's College offers another bm League of Soutlt Bc:1d, .'Vi od­
trying to crush the Palestinian announce • the change of the South Bend community."
extra-curri..:l'iar activity for e_ Cities, A<etion, lnc., Logangovernment. "Therefore, it has
movement and make peace with SMC -ND studenl~ -Volunteer Center and Neighhornood Study In order to generate interest Israel. But he issued an order to become ot•r duty to take a series Servicr,s in South Be.1d. I elp will be on hand to sign up in the program, Miss Snellgrove all guerrillas in Jordan of measures t J reestablish law student volunteers who would said t'hat coloring books, (yes
Vol:mteer Service~, under the forbidding them to fire on army and order and protect the lives, auspices of the SMC Commu 'lity Eke to involve themselves in the coloring books!), will be distri­
buted in the SMC dining halltroops except in self-defense. property and honor of all I f.:.ekti JllS Commission,n, will V'orkings of that strange city next week to those SMC aJ?,d ND
There was some shooting in citizens.' n ~d an activities nigJ· t from SOHth Of Illt: camp'•S. In his instructions to the new 7:3r to 10:00 p.1.1., Wcc'iJcsday, 
Oiannc Snellgrove, coordina-
Amman after nightfall 
students who wish to enter aWednesday, but gunfire is a coloring contest. 
nightly occurrence in guerrilla Three prizes will be awarded

Cambodian force cut off by Reds
camps within the capital. Then• to those contestants who de·· 
also was some firing north of the monstrate the finest hand for capital -during the day, but no PH N 0 M P E N H flew by helicopter to Phnom unit operating tow miles south coloring and the finest wit for incidents were reported. ( UPI)-Communist troops Penh for high level conferences of O'Reilly Wednesday, military writing capHons. 
Each of the three prizes willHussein announced the new Wednesday blew up two more on how to extricate the trapped sources said. 
consist of dinner for two at amilitary government early birdges behind an isolated 4,000 force. It was caught in a The Communists are local restaurant (Miss Snellgrove Wednesday following the man Cambodian task force, Communist vise at Svay Meas on apparently trying to force South has assured us that it won't beresignation Tuesday night of the preventing a relief column from Highway 6, 49 miles north Jf Vietnamese troops out of ,the the Huddle). 
civilian cabinet led by Premier reaching the unit which had Phnom Penh. area and open the A Shau 
Miss Snellgrove said that the Abdel Moneim Rifai. been involved in the biggest Ir. South Vietnam, Valley, a natural infiltration Volunteer Services program will He placed the army under Cambodian offensive of the war. commund gunners filing from route from Laotian sanctuaries give students a chance to "learn Western sources said the marshes dP-ep in the Mekong to the northern coastal plains of wnat the South Bend entire task force command, River Delta shot down lO U.S. South Vietnam. Community is atout and to let it headed by Brig. Gen. Neak Sam, built helicopters and destroyed UPI correspondent Frank know that Lhe St. Mary's com­
STANFORD 

munity is around and wants ~ofour of them for the biggest Frosch, reporting from the scene heiJ.J."
single bag of allied choppers in of the action in Cambodia, said 
LAW SCHOOL 

She added that volunteers for
Baldinger ill 

the war. Commjnist forces have blown up community work have to beNear Fire BasG O'Reilly, a four bridges hehind the 4,000 dedicated because they are sign­South Vietnamese b~_se near the man task force since Monday,
Dr. Lawrence Baldinger, chair­ing up to work for the entire
Mr. Keogh, Dean of 
Laotian border 390 miles north cutting it off from semester.
man of the Dept. of Pre-pro­
Admissions for the Stan­
fessional Studies, and an assoc­of Saigon, U.S. Air Force B52 reinforcements and supplies. Her assistant is Ann Cloos and 
Stratofortresses and smaller One of the destroyed bridges their moderator is Fr. Roger
ford Law School is sche­
iate dean in the pre-med and tactical fighter bombers was five miles north of Skoun, a Cormier, C.S.C . Any students
duling interviews for pro­
pre-dentistry programs has been interested in Volunteer Servicespounded away at Communist town 35 miles north of Phnomhospitalized in the Loyola Hos­
spective stude!"tts on 
and th~ activities night may con­forces that have been besieging Penh which served as thepital in Chicago since Aug. 21 tact M1ss Snellgrove, Miss Cloos
Thursday, September 24 
the outpost for tnore than two jumping off point for the task
due to complications following a or Fr. Cormier at St. Mary's.
the Business Building 
months. force on Sept. 7.
bout with pneumonia. It is not North Vietnamese troops in The force was given the Miss Snellgrove said that ar-­
Room 205. 

known how long Dr. Baldinger rangements are being made to
will be confined, but during his the area fired more than I 00 missions of clearing the Highway 
distribute the contest coloring
shells at a South Vietnamese 6
absence his counseling duties are 
books t;n the Notre Dame cam-being handled by Dr. Gordon, an 
Sign up for appointments out· 
side room 341 O'Shau!tJnessy 

associate dean in the college of 
Science. 

NOTICE 
ALL OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS 
interested in interhall football should 
put their name on the list in the OFF 
CAMPUS OFFICE As Soon As Pos­
sible. 



SENIORS 
Those who didn't get their pictures taken 
last spring must get them taken by Sept. 21 m 
order to be m DOME '71 
Life style needs personal convictions 
experience. "My suspicion is
program in that all three "shat­
(Continued from page 1) 
that it is a term that is used for
ters the traditional categories 
all the horizon tal relationships
hired professor for the program because in a sense it is a Part of who was also at the interview, at 
that can be experienced. There all of them and in anothe-r sense arc students who refer to anythis point pointed out that the 
suggestion that some have prof­
it overrides much of what you intense experience with a group erred to place the program under can pull out of a number of of people as a religious ex­the department of theology studies." perience. There are those who go would be injurious to the pro­0ut and commune with nature 
"I think that is what we are
gram since the nor.-violence <.:.ld call it a religious experi­
going to have to discover this
program, as a study of a ence," Fr. Amen said, "I think 
year, just what the program is is
life-style, crosses over many you would have trouble calling it 
!;omething we could sit down
disciplines. a theological ex:>erience:' 
and figure out right now. But what we would like it to be is In reply to a question con­
Fr. Amen added that while he not easily discovered and will cerning the objections about thewould not object to incorpora­take a considerable amount of program's non-acadr.mic nature: ting the program into the Uni­work to figure out," Amen said. Fr. Amen asked, "How academi~: versity as a permanent program is this pursuit if it attempts to:or institute under the name of help people to live a good life?" 
Dr. O'Leary said that another : thing similar, "I don't think that problem which might be en­
:Theological Studies or some­Fr. An.en finished the inter­we would fit into any existing countered would be the too view by saying that he had been :department." close association of Theology working under the "illusion that
with religion, since that might 
this \Hs a do or die year for theCiting the newly-instituted tend to alienate many students . 
program. It really is not." He . :programs in Black and American The discussion turned at this said that the program had several : :studies, Amen said that they point to the contemporary defi­individuals in the administrationwere similar to the non-violence nition of the term religious 
who were working for the program's continuation, citing 

the visit of several South Caro­
all Tomsett Studios (2336157) for appointment: 
lina professors to the campw. on 
Fr. Hesburgh 's invitation as 
evidence. "Rig!J t now, the oro­
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• gram is I\ OK." ·· 
ANYONE WISHING TO PICK UP THEIR COPY OF DOME '70 
W\e Observer Is published dally during the college semester except(EXCLUDING FROSH) BRING I.D. vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St
TO 4-A LAFORTUNE ANY 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased f« $8 from The
WEEKDAY BETWEEN 9 AND 11:30 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame
A.M.. Ind., 46556. second class postage Pilei, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 

tion Proirram. He added that an

(Continued from page I) 
effort is being made to "focu~ 
Krashna has no plans to 
on the public schools and 

"slacken" the recruitment of 
develop contact with them." 

minority students, but he noted 
Carl Ellison, a black student 

a need for "new monies to take 
and a resident of South Bend 

care of the minority students for 
will accompany Krashna to 

next year." 
Indianapolis. Ellison has worked 
According to Dr. Peter 
in the admissions office and was 

Grande, director of admissions, 
recently appointed by Krashna 

his office is "cooperating fully" 
to head St. Joseph County

with Krashna's Recruitment Ac-
recruiting. 
.

Hijack victims rema1n held 
(UPI)-The installation of a military government in Jordan Wedsnesday ensnarled in further political complications the fate of 54 Western hostages held by the Palestinian guerrilla organization that hijacked their planes I 0 days ago. 
"This is unfortunate," said a source close to the negotiators seeking release of the hostages. "It will almost certainly damage our chances of getting these people out quickly." 
Blantz appoints new committee 

A Hous.:  Commit 1ee  of  the  
LaFortune  Student  Center  has  
recent!)  been  appointed  by  

Reverend Thomas E. Llantz, C.S.C., Vice President for Stu­dent Affairs, to assist the Office of Student Affairs and the :\1anager of the Student Center in formulatmg policies, allocat­ing space, and improving ~xisting facilities and programs t() enable the Center to be of greater service ·cc the student body. 
Mem ;>ers of the new commit­tee are: Mark Winings, Student Body Vice President; Timothy Connor, Research and Develp­ment coordinator; Tom Olivieri, Stude'lt Unir:>n Associate Direc­tor; Mrs. Pat Molinaro, Student Governn .ent Secretary; Ann Druecker of St. Mary's College; Professor and Mrs. James Massey; Brother Francis Gorch, C.S.C., Hanager of the Student Center; and Reverend James Shilts, C.S.C., Assistant Vice President for Student ,\ffairs. 
The Comnittee hopes to meet montltly or bi-wee"dy, ard any­one wishing to mal.e suggestions for improvir'g the policiies and facilities of the Center is asked to contact any of the Committee members. 
Political sources said the hostages could become pawns for use by the guerrillas in any confrontation with the Jordanian army or government. 
Prior to King Hussein's installation of a military government, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP) guetrila group demanded the release of seven imprisoned Palestinians in Britain, Switzerland and West Germany and an unspecified number of Arabs held in Israeli prisons in exchange for the hostages. 
The 54 hostages are of American, Israeli, British, Swiss and West German citizenship. The PFLP is holding the Americans and Israelis together and has taken the position that each of the countries should work out release of its own citizens individually with the Front. 
The nations involved, however, have taken the position that they wiJI not reliese any Arab prisoners unless all hostages are relcJsed. 
The International Red Cross in Geneva said Wednesday it had sent two more delegates to the Jordanian capital ·of' Amman, raising the number of its representatives there to five but had been unable to visit th~ 54 hostages. Red Cross officials said the delegation in Amman reported the situation there to be so confused that it is difficult to find Palestinian officials to authorize visits to the hostages. 
Part of the confusion was the result of Hussein's decision to set up a military government, a 
move that presented a possibility of a showdown between the Jordanian army and the Palestinian commandos. The two have been battling off and on for some time because of 

THE OBSERfJER Page 3 
Nixon discusses youth 
MANHATTAN, Kan. (UPI) ­President Nixon, making a rare visit to a college, declared yester­day "destructive activists" should be cleared from the na­tion's campuses. He WJS heckled by a small group of the youths he criticized. 
In some of his toughest re­marks so far on radit.:al dissent on campus, the President told a Kansas State University audience of I 5,5 00 that responsible stu­dents must "stand up and be counted." 
"Only they can save higher education in America," Nixon said. "It cannot be saved by government. To attempt to blame government for all the woes of the universities is to seek an excuse, not a reason, for their troubles." 
As he spoke, a group of youths shouted obscenities. Al­though their number was small, their voices in the college field­bouse were loud. 
'A Smtlll Minority' 
"The destruction activists at 
our colleges and universities are 
a small minority," Nixon said 
over the he. _jers' remarks. "But 
their voices have been allowed to 
drown out the responsible ma­
jority. 
"As a result, there is a grow­
ing, dang~rous attitude among 
millions of people that all youth 
are like those few who appear 
night after night on the tele­
vision scre(;.' shouting obsceni­
ties, m:<king threats or engaging 
in destructive and illegal acts." 
The President said if the prob­lems students complain about ­the war and pollution of the environment -were solved "the mor<'j and spiritual crisis in the univf..rsities wo:1ld still exist." He saic colleges risk losing the sup­port of the American people unless they curb tl:c violence of dissidents who terrorize c tudents and faculty alike. 
"We must be honest enough to find what is right and to change what is wrong," Nixon said. 
Nixon spoke in the Kansas State Fieldhouse before flying to Chicago for an overnight visit and a series of meetings with news media executives to ex­plain his foreign policy. His speech was part of the Alfred M. Landon lecture series. Landon, who celebrated his 83rd birth­day last week, introduced the President. 
A noisy band of perhaps 50 dissidents interrupted the Presi­dent's remarks with shouted questions and obscenities. Lo­cated directly across from the President they unfurled a sign saying "How many more will you kill." 
As Nixon listed several recent acts of criminal violence the youths shouted "How about Kent State?" and "How about the ghettos?" 

Friendly Crowd 

Although their number was small their voice in the field­bouse enclosure was loud. But the applause of the predomi­nantly friendly crowd drowned out the protestors when the President called for a willingness on the part of dissatisfied young­sters to listen to somebody with­out trying to shout him down. 
"The shortage in rna terial things that schools have ex­perienced at times are nothing compared to the crisis of the spirit which rocks hundreds of camp~.:ses across the country to­day," Nixon said. 
"And because of this, to put it bluntly, today higher educa­tion in America risks losing that essential support it has had since the beginning of this country ­the support of the American people. 
"At a time when the quantity of education is going dramati­cally up, it's quality is massively threatened by assaults which ter­rorize faculty, students and uni­versity and college administra­tors alike." 
Hot Dog Stand Lottery 
for Registered Organizations to be held between 7:00-9:00 p.m. o.n Thursday Sept. 17. Phone 7757 for application 
.du · these hours. 

~~~~~~ 
·~*::.;:~::~:::~:::~:~:~:~:~:;:~:;:::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~; 
~iii CARTOONISTS  iii~  
THE OBSERVER NEEDS YOU INTERESTED?  
CALL or WRITE THE OBSERVER Box 11 ~=::......................... Phone .283-8661  ;::: 

·1~:~:·:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:::;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:~;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:i:i;: ~~~~~:;:=======~====~==;;=;;:==::;====~~~~~~ 
Page 4 

_____ '!)IE OBSERUER. 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. De SAPIO. Publisher
DAVIDC. BACH.Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Study Help Needed 
The Neighborhood Study Help. Program is pre~ently ~n need of sqo tuto:-; from St. Mary's and Notre Dame m order to provide assistance to children m the South Bend School District. The success of the Study Help Program has been hampered over the past 
several years by a lack of funds and educational .equipment, and the overcrowding of children needing assistance. Yet over SIX h';ln~red tut.ors last year contributed their time and talents and succeeded m Improvmg the 
attitudinal and intellectual position of over 70% of the t~tee~. . 
Due to Title I funding from the South Bend School J?Istnct _and unproved administrative planning, the Study Help Program pro~uses to Improv~ upon their admirable record of service to the South Bend pnmary school children. 
Over eight hundred children are in need of tutors. Eight hundred persons from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are needed to devote f<;mr hours~ week to the underachieving children that need the personal attention and gmdance of a college student. Someone out there needs you. 
Glen Corso.:::::::=============================================================================~=======;======================================================;=;=;=;====================================== Ecology 

Ecology was a very big thing this summer on the homefront. People found themselves bombarded by a spate of newspaper and magazine articles and TV shows. In a very unusual move, serious objections were raised to the building of two power plants, one by Con Edison and one by Long Island Lighting, because of the possible damage that might be done to the environment. 
Perhaps the most shocking revelations in the area of environmental concern was the findings by federal officials of mercury pollution in New York State waterways. Mercury has terrible effects on human beings. Very small amounts can affect the hrain, causing the person to lose control over his faculties. In larger amounts it kills. Soon after the mercury pollution made news it was also revealed that New York waterways may contain harmful amounts of other metals, all of which have been excreted by various industries. 
Both the electronic and printed media had one excell en t presentation apiece on the poll uti on problem this summer. WNEW, a television network in New York, offered a program entitled "1985" which depicted the United States in the grip of a severe ecological crisis that year. The show was vivid and frightening especially since most of the pictures used were actual photographs. It touched upon the major kinds of pollution; air, noise and human. It was shown how each of these types of pollution upset the delicate balance of nature which, thus far, has enabled man to survive on this planet. 
Dense, man-killing smogs were reported over several major cities in the U.S., as were huge dust storms sweeping across the previously fertile plains of the Mid-West. Rivers and lakes were described as vast cesspools while fish were dying by the millions in the sea. The country had finally recognized the threat and was mobilizing to meet it. The various TV con·l'1entators expressed hope that everything would be close to normal in about two or three years. The program ended with the transmis<>ions from the various cities blacking out suddenly. 
Newsday, a Long Island paper, devoted most of its weekend section to four stories dealing with the end of m . .mkind. The Package was titled, appro­piately, "Doomsday"_ One of the stories dealt with nuclear war, and another was facetious. The other two though, concerned the ravishment of man's environment and his subsequent demise. In one the earth ran out of oxygen because the algae in the ocean which produce most of this vital commodity were killed through the poisoning of our seas. The second dealt with overpopulation. It pictured the world in the year 2096 with a population of 32 billion people. Society had completely collapsed, save for a Central agency which attempted to run the Western World. People followed the practice of cavemen, spending all day finding epough food to stay alive. The apocalypse came with a planned nuclear exchange between the United States and Russia. 
It seemed as if the fictitious stories were far more disturbing, possibly beca•1se of the awful, horrible air of finality that hung about u·,em. However, they did not convcy the message that the television presentation did, that we do not have much time left. In fact, several harbingers of doom were witnessed this summer. 
Stewart Udall, former Secretary of the Interior, wrote a column in August about the toWI of Westport, Conneticut. The community, an ex­tremely affluent on,:, faced an ecological crisis this year. Th: town, quite simply, ran out of space to dump their garbage. The dump which the town was using became so jammed that it was declared a menace and ordered closed by the mayor. In an effort to arouse the citizenry he suspended garbage colle<.:tion for several weeks. This brought on the expected adverse reaction from the people and after 1:: frantic search the city located anotht.r place to deposit their trash. However, at the rate the garbage is piling up all the space will be used up in eighteen months. After that it looks as if the town will be forced to incinerate their garbage t{JUs adding to air pollution. 
One of the problems mentioned in the TV show "1985", was that American cities became over­
v. helmed with garbage disposal problems, since larger amounts were thrvwn out every year and the sanitation departments were unable to cope with it. 
The secoTJd incident occurred in Long Island Sound. For no readily apparent reason, in August, huge numbers of mossbunkers began dying. They washed ashore and made many North Shore !1eaches unfil for bathing. It was finally hypothe­~.ized that the fish died because of toxins emitted by organisms known as dinoflagellates. One of the reasons for the rapid growth of these organisms v1as the nutrient concentrations such as phosphate and nitrate found in the water. These come from sewagc plants which dump into the Sound. One c~~;ran fisherman said he was surprised and worried at the death of the mossbunkers since they are v :ry hardy fish. He felt anything strong enough to kill them could also kill edible fish. 
Both the TV shows and one of the stories showed that the pollution of the oceans killed ot of the life forms, including edible fish and oxygen pro­ducing algae. 
The opinions in the editorials, news analyses and colum_ns of The Obs~rve~ are solely those of the aut~orsz anj editors of The Observer and do not necessar1ly reflect the v1ews of the Umvers1ty of Notre Dame, St. Mary s College, their administrations, faculty or students. 
Thursday, September 17, 1970 


The Princeton Plan 

The recent softening of our campus leaders concerning th•,, 
proposed November election break must be a bitter pill for all thos~ 
people that worked so tirelessly last spring during the Cambodian 
disaster. 

Mr. Winings would "tend to vote no" when the referendum comes 
up in two weeks. Mr. Krashna thinks that we could be "used by 
politicians for their own wants" and recommends that we educate 
the people in South Bend while school continues. Rev. Burtchaell's 
:1rgument, predictably, is more esoteric. We cannot politicize the 
University, our leader cries, five minutes before giving his defense of 
ROTC on campus. We must stay in school and get an historical 
perspective on the problem of the present day, we are advised. And 
Chris Wolfe, one of the most political men that I know, says that 
"students should be here to study and learn, withdrawn from the 
level of political activity." 

I can only recall a different and more exciting mood that 
prevailed when Congressman Allard Lowenstein spoke here last 
spring. The New York Representative spoke of that small band of 
young people that projected Eugene McCarthy to victory in the 
primaries. with the resultant capitulation of Lyndon Johnson. 
Lowenstein's role as leader-of the duq~.p Johnson movement is a 
tribute to his political courage. And the terrible disillusionment of 
the McCarthy supporters in Chicago is a history that we are all only 
too familiar with. (Does anyone remember William Kunstler's 
dramatic and tragic tale last spring in Stepan Center?) Mr. 
Lowenstein, in his speech at Washington Hall, predicted the vast 
potential of the nation's students should they begin informing the 
electorate around the nation of some the ugly facts of our 
government. He accused the students of the McCarthy era of being 
"summertime soldiers" that quit when the going got tough. 
And it was this very apathy on the part of the young that allowed 
Nixon to defeat Humphrey. And to those people that say that Nixon 
and Humphrey were practically identical, I say bullshit. Humphrey 
was sponsoring the first civil rights bill while Nixon was redbaiting 
Communists and crying about his dog checkers. If Humphrey had 
gotten student support earlier in his campaign, we wouldn't have 
Blackmun and Burger and Mitchell and Agnew and the thousand 
other reactionaries that we don't even know about. 
To all those milksop liberals that gave Lowenstein and Kunstler 
deafening ovations last spring, and now cry about their vacation schedule being disturbed, the axe will fall and there will be little doubt about it. Nixon and Agnew and their kind are counting on people like the Notre Dame student body to decide against camt ·igning this November so that they can drink their beer and . toast their tootsies before the fire. The fascists are counting upon the continued stupidity of the American electorate, they are 
counting on a student change of heart and mind they are counting 
on the huge contributions of the reactionary industrialists that 
support the present Republican machine. If the students arm 
themselves with facts and figures like the ones that Lowenstein 
brought to Washington Hall last spring, men like Nixon and Agnew 
are goners. 

The balance sheet is simple. Give up the Thanksgiving vacation of Thursday, and Friday, give up a few leisurely saturdays so that extra classes can be scheduled, and stay here in school a few days closer to Christmas. If this is too great a price for a political regeneration in this nation then face the outcome. Seniors, face next June when no money is ~vaila ble for graduate funds and no decent jobs can be had. Juniors brace yourselves for another year of student baiting by the Senato;s Representatives, and local officials that will be elected if you vote' to sit on you ass. Sophomores, count on an administration that will have another Vietnam all ready for you by the time you graduate. And freshmen, look forward ~.:) another Nixon-Agnew administration and the day when you have to be in ROTC to stay in college. 
It is time for people like David Krashna and Mark Winings and James Burtchaell and myself and all those cheering students that last spring ran around in "Strike Irish" shirts to cut the empty liberal rhetoric and start trying to clean up the mess we let ourselves get into. 
Thursday, September 17, 1970 THE OBSER.fiU. Page 5 
Irish Comix •••by Snrtilin' Ed 

OBSERVER FEATURES PAGE 
Dear Uncle Bass 

by Bass Rumore
IEasy WriterAsk Mr. withi!y Pete Peterson I 

Observer t=eatures Phantoro1 

~~f DEAR MR. WITHIT: I am an offcampus junior living in the Notre Dame';\l\\ ;:;:Apartments. I am six-foot two, play polo and jai alai, and drive a '71 Shelby GT with 11 ;;:: ;:;:tape deck. I have twinkling eyes and a bright smile. I know all the latest dances, anr' :;:; ;:;:buy my clothes at Gilbert's. But whenever I ask a St. Mary's girl out, I get shot d wn :;:; 
rWhat should I do? GLEN PLAID ~ll 
:~~~~ DEAR GLEN: Your problme is probably your choice of girls. Mutual interests can :l:l :;:;:help form a basis for a meaningful relationship, and thus you should seek out yO'.mg :;:; :;~~:ladies who are also superficial, trendy, and tasteless. MR. WITHIT f:~: 
~~ ~a \~~~ DEAR MR. WITHIT: My roommates both have nicknames, so I expressed a wish to ilili :~:~have a nickname also. They gave me one, but they are such pranksters that I think ~:l: ;:::they may be pulling my leg a bit. What is a "douche bag"? I am a freshman. YCLEPT ::::: 
I I 
:~~~ DEAR YCLEPT: The phrase is the reverse of "Frang/ais", the cross-channel;~~~ :;:;:bastardizing that gave Paris "le hamburger" and "le drugstore". The French word for;:;: :;:;!wash is "douche" and W{l.!' adopted by the British to mean "to make one's toilet': ;:;; ~:;!Thus the "douche bag" would be a shaving kit, literally, a "toilet bag". Your smutty;:;; :;:;little friends would probably get a sniker outy of that phrase, too. MR. WITHIT :;:;
I . I 
ill~ DEAR MR. WITHIT: Last night, I was at a bar in Frankie's, and I overheard fellow~~~; ;:;:order his date a "Flaming Gaper". What is a "Flaming Gaper"? BARFLY ;:;; :::: :::: 
iii! DEAR BARFLY: Anv clown that tries to be cool by ordering exotic, obscure ~l~~ !;!;:.Jrinks for his date. MR. WITHIT 
@! 
:~j~~ GRIPE OF THE WEE'K: My gripe is jerks who think they are so together that they U 
;~;:aan 8!ve sou!1d advice _to co'!'plete _strangers ~thout any more information than the l~: :;:;one-sided v1ew contamed m thetr readers letters. These conceited morons are :-:: :;;;criminally negligent for giving out halfbaked advice in life-and-death matters as an ego ;i;: 
;:;:tnp and for money. A .L., CHICAGO ILL
t ' . 
~;~: Send your problems and gripes tu "MR. WITHIT", care of this paper. We need the:~~~: ;:::laughs. 
:::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::~:~:::::::~:~:~:=:~;~:::::::~=~~~=~=~=~:!:~:~:!:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Important News! 

In reality, the Ringling Brothers Bar­num and Baily Circus (right) is coming to South Bend over the weekend and is even now making spiritual preparation to tram­ple on the sacred turf of Fr. Sorir., Knute Rockne and Tom "Stripper" Allen. Mor' on that tomorrow. 
Yesterday, when the Observer omitted the Features page, as m.tny a5 one people asked this correspondant, "where is the features page?" If you missed the Feature s page, show your displeasure by spitting at editor-in-chief Dave Bach next time you see him. 
You're probably all wonaering why the Observer Features Editor spent an entire quarter page telling people of a Features Meeting that he didn't attend himself. The reason is that he's an idiot. Try the Observer office Friday at 4:30 (every­body else meets Thursday, so big deal). Don.t worry if he's not there. Just bust down the door. He's soon to be replaced by an intelligent ape anyway. 
Supergroup 
A super group consisting of former members of the First Friday, the Magnificent Seven, and the Larry Beachler Sextet has been formed and will be performing this Friday evening at the Saint Mary's Coffeehouse. The group, performing under the name "Melting Pot" is ND's first real supergroup, and was formed ry combining the talents of Pete Szujewski, John Buchanan, Harry Irving, and Oran "OJ" Johnson, formerly of the award-winning Magnificent Seven, with those of Jack Prendergast and Norm Zeller, formerly of the First Friday, who recorded an album on the King label, and Nick Talarice, who was a member of the "Pilot" experimental jam group, which played at the Sunshine Festival. Their first gig is scheduled for eight-thirty, Friday the seventeenth. Admission is one dollar, and all profits will go to continuing the Coffeehouse scholarship, which was set up three years ago to aid promising art students. 
DEAR UNCJ-E BAS~ 'ltere is it at? Freshman 
It is at Frankie's. A lot of people don't r~alizethat, but Frankif:'s is really where 
it's at. That's the fun spot where all the really groovy people get together (and get it 
together!). Frankie's is located on the corner of Notre Dame Avenue and Howard 
Street. Notre Dame is the one that stretches South from the Dome. Howard Street 
is the one where they have all the muggings and rip-offs. 
Another way to find Frankie's is to locate the vacant lot where a young 
newlywed couple were living in one of Frankie's many houses until it burnt to the 
ground one night last spring while they were out of town. 
When you walk into Frankie's, you will note the congeniality of the place 
;
immediately. 

The congenial leers on the faces of the guys as they drool and make obscene 
congenial comments to each other about your date. The congenial way the waitress ' 
accepts your order without checking your proof. The congenial way the Alcoholic 
lJeverage Control Boys never seem to notice. 

In fact, the atmosphere at Frankie's is so great, you won't notice that the tables 
and silverware ar~ still encrusted with the remnants of the last customer's meal, that 
the thin-crusted pizzas are greasy, that the spaghetti is undercooked and rubbery, or 
that the portions and prices seem increasingly disproporationate as the years go by . 
.)o what if they serve you stale bread with your meal? The atmosphere more than 
makes up for it! If the Board of Health doesn't seem to mind, why should you'? 
Yes, if you wish Notre Dame had Fraternities so that you could have an ~pportunity to meet with others, rich, spoiled brats, Frankie's is where it's at for YOU! So come on down for an evening of fun and frolicking. You'll be glad you did. 

Page 6 Thursday, September 17, 1970 
Mike Keefer The Case for a Volunteer Army 
to their jurisdiction. been popular (if war is ever draft to end as before (March drafted was fairly small, and 
popular), perhaps beginning with 31, 1947). However, he under-because of great anti-Com-
Ever since the Hittites began The obvious purpose of this the Civil War. Many citizens felt took at that time to raise an munist feeling in the 1950's, no running rampant through Asia legislation was to put into law they did not want to participate all-volunteer army of ample pro-commotion was made and little Minor in 1500 B.C., men have what hundreds of thousands of in a struggle bent upon killing portions. This experiment wa~ notice drawn to it. utilized armed mass conflict in Americans had just died for -other Americans. A certain per destined to fail and did, because In 1960, the first military order that they might settle dif-that a citizen of this country centage of those were too scrup-the nation was weary of war, American advisors were sent to ferences with their neighbors. cannot be forced to do what he ulous to buy their way out, and there was little incentive in mili-Vietnam as part of a commit­This phenomena became so sue-does not want to. decided to protest Mr. Lincoln's tary life, and because of the ment under a SEATO alliance. cessful that man has been devis-Article l, section 8 of the action when he called a draft. attractiveness of a booming civil-By 1966, draft calls were over ing more sophisticated and Constitution gave Congress the This dissent culminated in the ian economy. Therefore, Con-20,000 a month, producing a powerful ways of waging war power "to declare war ... to great draft riots of New York gress, on March 17, 1948, again seething undercurrent on cam-ever since, and, in tht? process, raise and support armies." The (1863), in which more than legislated a draft. The reason puses and in the ghettos. One has managed to keep the number United States has been involved l 000 people lost their lives. was, according to President Tru-President having been assassin-of his species relatively low until in 17 wars of varying magnitude Later on, protests to the draft man, "we have found that a ated, another was forced out of now. since her inception. Seldom has were seen during the First World soun1 military system is neces-office, and in 1968, Richard 
In 1789, the federation of this country initiated war itself, War and the Korean War. Never sary in time of peace if we are to Nixon took over the world's 
British colonies that had united but instead responds to attack has this nation seen so much remain at peace ... we have paid most unenviable job. Realizing 
to form the United States drew with a vengeance. In peace time, revulsion to a Congressional en-a terrible price for unprepared-the nation's disgust, he con-
up a constitution with which to actment however as during the ness." demned the draft, saying "We 
govern themselves -a remark-U.S. armies have been relatively war in Vietnam. With the onset of the Korean have lived with the draft so long 
able document that nevertheless small, but when war is immi-When a war ended, Congress War and the McCarthy era, the that too many of us arcept it as 
contained contradictions. Most nent, Congress always assumed invariably allowed the emergen-United States began adopting normal and necessary," and he 
of these have been amended over its warmaking power. cy draft to end, and subsequen-George Kennan's theory of stop-proposed an all-volunteer army 
the past 200 years, and one in Cognitive of the need for tly the army was reduced to a ping the Communists at all to replace it as soon as possible. 
point is ·the 13th amendment, great numbers of men, they init-unit composed of those who fronts and at all costs, even if it The debate has been heated and, 
enacted at the close of the Civil iated call-ups or drafts by which wished to remain, and those who meant a huge standing army at at times, emotional, while pro­
War, 1865. It read: men were obligated to partake in enlisted thereafter. In the late all points of the globe. Com-ducing strange bedfellows in 
Neither slavery nor involun-the war or face federal punish-1930's, President Franklin rnitments were made to most Congress. A few weeks ago, the 
tary servitude, except as a pun-ment. In most cases, patriotic Roosevelt initiated a draft to nations in the free world, pro-unlikely duo of Barry Goldwater 
ishment for crime whereof the citizens would flock to volunt-cope with the threat posed by mising support. The new draft, and Mark Hatfield sponsored an 
party shall have been duly con-eer, so the draft was only a the Germans and Japanese, and the Selective Service System, amendment to force a volunteer 
victed, shall exist within the figurehead of sorts. However, then, once World War II ended, had a great many inherent in-army by 1971 which was defeat­
United States or any place subject some of the 17 wars have not President Truman permitted the equities but because the number (Continued on Page 7 
,••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••1 
• • 

• • • 
• •
•
•
• 
•
• 

• (:()P..II r, .. , l"l'' !I~ f ..f. ·;,tv~"'·~·· C·· ~hl"t .J~.· ~·.f ! .)P '"i lf{~···:,•, ...tD ·~·:'f"'•"~~ lt·E'·'!''• ~;.Ito(. ~·W;10t:l'f or TH~ ',f\:(.. l/P CC!Ooi.PAI\jl •
• 

I• It's afree for wall! r-:::.~~.~~=~-----l I• 
: Thank you, : 
: That"s right. ~:ollege folk. 7UP1'. The Paris, North Dakota. (Hours: 4 to 5, appnint-: : Uncola'~"". is offering you a super ne•;t Uncola ments only. closed on Wednesdays.) Name : • poster for your wall absolutely free! All you do Along with your poster we're going to send ••• is send your name and address to: Uncola College you absolutely FREE, FREE. FREE an un-pun Address •e : Offer. P.O. Box 14031. St. Louis, Mo. 63178. (Or sticker and all kinds of 7UP literata on more : : have someone write it for you if you go to one of Uncola stuff that's available. (The kind you'll : 
• those "progressive" schools.) like!) Merchandata ranging from really big 7UP City e : This ~emi-beautiful 2 !"by 11"poster is per-posters to Turn-Un lamps. You'll be the envy of : : feet for covering unsightly sections of your wall your room (especially if you live alone). State Zip_.__ : • like doors. clocks and windows. Also, this snazzy So send for your free 7UP poster. Don't de-Send to: • : poster is actually hanging in The Louvre in Paris! lay! Act today! Supply is limited to the first 7 mil-: 
Uncola College Offer, •
: That's right, The Louvre Car and Body Shop. lion requests. Offer Expires December 31, 1970. • 
e P.O.Box 14031, e • St. Louis, Mo. 63178 • 
• "7UP" AND "SEVEN-UP" ARE REGISTEREO TRADEMARKS • 
: IDENTIFYING THE PRODUCT OF THE SEVEN-UP COMPANY. : 
• '··········································································································· 
T__hu_r_w_a_v_._se_p_te_m_b_e_r_1_7_,_1_97_o_____________________________________~---~---().--~--~--~--~-------------------------------------------------------P_a_ge___7 

The two pictures on the left are of the boys and girls of Notre Dame and St. Mary's enjoying the summer air. Next week, Fall officially begins in beautiful South Bend. The pic­ture on the right, taker. October 16, 1969, is of the polar bear (lower left) and Arctic White Buzzard (extreme right), cavorting in the Winter Air. Lots of luck. 
Hesburgh on committee for a volunteer army 
(Continued from page 6) 

after their initial tour). For strict volunteer army would fail to Gates Commission reports that improved to make military lifeed. cons,ructionists, the 13th a­produce the man power neces­with enlisted compensation, ex­as attractive as its civilian coun­mendment would not be violat­
On Wuch 27, 1969, the Presi­sarY to keep order inthe world pansion of the use of proficiency terpart.
dent aitnounced the formation ed in any way, and it would and protect ourselves; 2) that an pay and accelerated promotions Of course, a certain numberof the Advisory Commission on serve to remove the burden of all-volunteer army would be "combined with more intensive of men will always volunteer ­an all-volunteer armed force un­inequality that presently falls so made up of minority groups, recruiting and improvements in the military life in any way isder the chairmanship of Thomas heavily upon the minority sec­mainly blacks; 3) that such a military personn.:l managements, both good and appealing fortions of our society. But, most
Gates, former Secretary of De­force would ev~::ntually provide a the services r,hould be able to them. However, the thousandsfense. Among those on the com­important, returning to an all­threat to our freedom -that maintain the high quality of of men _who annually are in­volunteer force would restore to
mittee was Theodore M. Res­they could assume power at will their forces." Added compensa­duced by the draft to volunteerburgh, C.S.C., President of Notre the adolescent American his (ala Seven Days In May); 4) that tion will have to be such as to would be lost unless the armyDame. Their purpose was to pass freedom of choice. The Gates such a force would cost the equal a comparable civilian job could become attractive enough. 
on the feasibility of an all-vol­Commission said, "Allow every taxpayers a fortuen. -$8000 to $10,000 per year No one has tried the improve­
unteer army to replace one of American man to determine his The Pentagon has stated that (this cost will be tJken up later.) •
ments noted yet, so it shouldconscripts. The results, as report­own life in accord with his own its future manpower require-Furthermore, particular indi­not be condemned to failureed February 20, 1970, can be values." ments will be based on a stand-vidual s!.ills will have to be witliout trial. The primary con-
summarized by saying that they The opponents of an all-vol-ing force of 2 to 2.5 million men better paired to military jobs if unanimously agreed that an all­unteer army are mainly career (although if we bought home first term enlistees are going to sideration, then, is to make the volunteer army was not only army off.cers who see a decline our forces from for-~ign spil, an be induced to "Re/up." military appeal as an occupation possible, but preferable. in the quality of their men, and army that size at _10"1e would be Finally, military benefits, in­for life rather than a sentence of i 
In this regard the proponents middle class rednecks whose on­cluding working hours, must be two years.
grossly large).
far outnumber the opponents. ly argument is that their sons The military, few will deny, is Basically, such a force would be should have to serve because comprised of men remaining in 
~~:~e d~~~ I~a~~!:S ~~~~~~~~: ~:~ ~~~~trt~:i:~a~~~~~t :!rh~
the service long enough to learn our society's evils, because oftheir particular trade -quite but even these are mentioned by incidents like My Lai, and fear­
difficult when attempted by in­people in favor of _su_ch a move ful labels such as "military­dividuals with only two years to The Gates CommiSSion covers . d ·al , A · th 
m ustn comp1ex. gam, elearn and little desire to (only them adcquate y l and they can_ 
l
Interested in Law School? Pre-Law Society ­
Mon. Sept. 21 at 7:30 Engln. Aud. 
1) LSAT Information 

2) Talks by Dean Waddick, Dean Foshio, Dr. H1ouck 
Registration -$2.00 
--• 
7% of draftees return to service 
be ~ummarized as: I) that an alt:-•··············REF.RiGERATc)R.s.FO R RENT i 
Call for Arab meeting ! i 
AMMAN, Jordan (UPI) -Democratic Front for the Liber-! unl im ited Supply r-n<OORCO<D""""""'"' ! King Hussein placed his govern-ation of Palestine reported fight-• GDecot1itor • ment in the hands of the army ing between the guerrillas and e e yesterday and Palestinian guerri-army troops broke out north of : $ 7.00 pe Onfh : lias called for an urgent meeting Amman Wednesday. It said guer-e r m e of the fourteen nation Arab rillas and members of the Pale-• e League to discuss the "criminal stinian Liberation Army took : Share the cost : and serious conspiracy" created part in the clashes between e • t e by the new regime. Jerash and Irbid, twenty four :wlfh yOUr roomma eS : In anohother development, and forty five miles north of • . • eleven Palestinian guerilla groups Amman. It gave no details. • $10 Damage Depos1t Fee e united under the military com-The Palestinian Central Com-• • mand of Yasser Arafat in an mittee, the government body of : (Refundab]e) : effort to stop the fighting be-the guerrillas which has been in • e tween the army and the com-continuous session, announced : PLUS Compensation for L • mandos which is threatening to last night it agreed with an e I sparkacivilwar. earlier call by a four man • Vacation Periods Add"•tt"onal • 
Arafat, chief of both the Pale-mediation mission for an urgent : "' -t3.50 refunded after each • stinian Central Committee and meeting of the Arab League "to • semester upon return of refrigerator. I the major commando unit, AI discuss the criminal and serioUs : Example: Have refrigerator for entire year • Fatah, accused Hussein of trying conspiracy committed by the • and we will refund the $10.00 plus an I 
to crush the Palestinian move-military regime in Jordan ..." • e ment and make peace with The committee accused the : additional $7.00 -Like having 1 month • Israel. But he issued .m order to new military government of e FREE. : 
all guerrillas in Jordan forbid-renouncing a September fifteen : e ding them to fire o~ ermy troops peace pact. Instead of pulling e y b : ." 
except in self defense. back its troops, it changed its • ou can rent or uy • But in Beirut, the Popular army into a police organ to : • 
f:f::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;::::::::::::~:;:~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~ : De1ivery, S erv ice, Mainten an ce, & Pick-Up ARE FREE I :~~~:THOSE WISHING TO SUBMIT BUDGETS~~~~:~ .i ·~~~~ FORCONSJDERATIONBYTHE ~~~~:: COMPACT COOL, INC. : 
0 ~. •
I FINANCE COMMITTEE FOR 1970-71• ~~;~: : another service ofStudent Services Commission : 
II PLEAsE coitii~~ffs~l~FFICE II !~:~F~~2rortune s & Icontact ­
l 
I 
@-.· ----~-~...!.~~~-~~.:...~-~£.~.:...~-~---.·.-.-.-.-..-...................·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·······--········Jl : or 123 Farlev •• •••1•
-9.!~-·=············································································~·~·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.························"" ·••••••••••••••••••••••e==~--;e~~ ""~•..•••••••••••••••••••••• • 
Page 8 THE OBSERfJER Thursday, September 17, 1970 
--~----------------------------------------------------------------------------~--~----~--­
A Wildcat •IS hard to grab-Di Nardo 
by Jim Donaldson number one college football team. The same "big" games
Observer Sportswriter appear on the schedule every 

Since the "Era of Ara" began year -Purdue, Michigan State, in 1964, Notre Dame has battled Southern California -and these each fall for the distinction of clubs oppose the Irish this sea­being ranked as the nation's son, but there are a few other 

The Irish Eye 
·:~:::~:~:~:!:~:~:~:~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:::::~:~:::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
The 1 1en who devised the divisional system in Major League 
baseball ;;~uld be given a slap on the back and a firm handshake for 
their effor•. Without this new method of organizing the Big Leagues 
ther>! woulil no longer be a pennant race in either circuit. 
But s.n&: the management of baseball had enough foresight tc; realize that. eleven disgruntled. apathetic cities in eacJ;;.lcague woulr, be poor business for the sport, there is one dandy drive for the flag going on in the National League East. 
The three teams involved, New York, Chicago and Pittsburgh, 
have sta' ·ed consistently close for the majority of the season. For a 
stretch .in'late August it seemed as though none of these clubs 
actually ·winted to take top money in their division. Things are 
getting so ~ad that St. Louis and Philadelphia were given a chance by 
some to resurrect form their resper.tive graves and join the scramble. 
The three front runners started winning just enough to make it all 
but impossible for these two to get in the race, though. So now they 
approac~ the final two weeks of the long season and no one has 
asserted itself as the proverbial "team to beat." 
A close look at the schedule would make it appear that Chicago 
has the easiest selection of opponents in its remaining 15 games. 
HO'.vever, the Cubs have only one remaini.ilg home game (this 
afternoon versus St. Louis) so this is a tough assignment to ask the 
Cubbies to pick up one full game with such a long road trip. 
The Mets have a pleasing number of home games to play (eight of 
14) but they must face the third team involved, Pittsburgh, seven times before the close of the season. 
Pittsb .lfrh h~s a schedule somewhere between these two extremes. 
The Pirates have seven home dates and nine visiting games. (All of 
these figures include games played before yesterday evening.) 
The problem arises as to what team has any other sort ot 
advantage. Most veteran baseball experts would probably ;;o with the 
"Amazin Mets" on the strength of their young put proven pitching 
staff. One has to wonder just how proven these young arms actually 
are. Eac;1 pitcher has been proclaimed as a present or future 
superstar after only two or three years, at most, of positive 
performance. Since the team is from New York they are used to the 
large crowds and full coverage that a close pennant race breeds. 
Indeed, no one should laugh if the Mets are made a favcrite at this 
point. 
The Cubs must be the sentimental favorite of every Midwesterner from Ohio to the Rockies. Ernie Banks is inspiration enough for any team to arise to great heights. The Cubbies say they are loose and, after the choke from the '69 pennant drive, they should be. (This can work in an adverse manner if one considers the Dallas Cow bays continued habit of "taking the apple.") Whether the Chitown team can shake off the horrible memory of September, 1969 or not may well be found in the next fortnight. 
There is really no reason in the world to pick tht! Pittsburgh 
Pirates to finish on top in the division. then again there is no reason 
in the cusmos why the Battling Buccos are still involved in 
championship play, but they are! The Pirates have lost, at one time 
or another, every starter on the {-itching staff for an ext~nded 
perio i. Also they have been playing without Richie Hebner, c. .300 
hitter last season who gives most of his summer hours to Uncle Sam. 
Final!•·, No. 21 has been out of the lineup, sporadically throughout 
the season. (No. 21 is also called Roberto Clemente by some.) the 
Eucs ' ave endured all of these catastrophes yet they still hold a 
preca1 -·Is lead of one game. 
Not .:ven an examination of the managers would give an)' 
indicat 1n of who holds the upper hand. Leo Durocher has alre1dy 
signed . contract for next season therefore he should feel no undue 
pressm concerning job security. "The lip" has been through thl 
grind a umber of times but his temperament has not been tfte most 
comfor 1g to players. 
Gil : odges was rumored as a hard man to get along with before last seamn, but that view of the former Dodger has been reverseJ. Hodges probably has the most confidence in his troops of any of the managers. 
Danny Murtaugh has a heart condition and a very shaky pitching staff and the two shouldn't mix. The smilin' Irishman has remained cool so far, however, and he doesn't even think that any one game has come to the critical point yet. Dan calls them "crucial" but not "critical." 
So who is the pick to win this hard fought award? If one went hy reason he would certainly choose those clutch New Yorkers and walk away with a fist full of cash from all the bets he had won with his cool head. 
If one was the sentimental sort he would go with the Cubs. He would probably be overcome with emotion when Jack Brickhouse would scream "Hey, Hey Ernie" in the last inning of the seventh game of the World Series as the grand old man heads for home in his last major league appearance with the World Champion Chicago 
Cubs. Then there are those who do crazy things like pick a young, erratic ball club with a history of team discontt·nt to win it all even as far back as last April. This writer was one of those types and he still can see it no other way. 
"big" games on the '70 slate. The Missouri, LSU, and North­western encounters will all play an important part in determining where the Irish are ranked at season's end. 
Irish All-America guard and to hold their lead. This year it could be different. If they grab :•n early lead and pick up 110mentum, they'll be a tough team to catch." 
Much of the responsibility of getting the Irish off to a good 


Irish co-captain Larry DiNardo takes a cautious stand on the North· western game. He feels that the Wildcats will keep ND's hands full. 
co-captain Larry DiNardo feels start rests on the broad 
that the game Saturday at shoulders of DiNardo, who is the Northwestern could hold the 
stalwart of an offensive line that key to the entire Notre Dame lost 7 of its top I 0 performers season. from the '69 squad.
"The opening game away can Ara and offensive line coach be a real problem," Larry said, Wally Moore have had to come "and Northwestern has a fine up with replacements at both football team this year. Last fall tackle spots, center and tight they got ahead of us early in the end -almost a comple1e re­game but didn't have the talent building job. 1 say almost com­
plete because they started with a 
sound foundation -DiNardo 
and Gary Kos, last season's regu­
lar guards and a pair of solid 
performer.:. 
Dan Novakov, who played tackle in the Cotton Bowl, has taken over Mike Oriard's vacated center spot. Two Juniors, Mike Martin and John Dampeer are manning the tackle positions. Dampeer looked good last spring before being injured and Martin, granted an extra year of eligi­blity after surgery, is rounding into fine shape. Sophomore Hikt: Creaney will start at tight end Saturday after a fine Spring and Fall. He ov :rcame the in.iury jinx that has !tit so many Irish players. 
"Lack of game experience is going to hurt -if North­western's linebackers start stunt­ing or dogging we could have problems," DiNardo said. ''!like playing with this group in the line though, we're a very closely knit unit." 
Askec' if the felt any add~.· pressure this season, considcrin that he is co-captain of tl1e club and bulwark of the line, hl: replied that he certainly did. 
"There is more expc...:ted of me this year than ever before ­there should be," he said. ''I'll feel personally responsible for the success of our line play Saturday." Before the season the pressure bothers me I have too much time to think about all the things that could go wror g ­but once we get into the sched­ule, the pressure acts as an incen­tive to play well." 
Larry DiNardo is not only an All-American player, te is a leader. He will lead the Irish onto the fidd at Dyche :>tadium and then he will lead them in warmups, but, most impm­tantly, he will lead the blocking during the game and, if the newcomers follow his example, DiNardo will lead the Irish to the seventh straight opening game win under Ara. 

Piebes starts for Purdue 
LAFAYETTE, iN D. (UPI) then he was touted as a good 
defensive safety. He captained 
passer with good speed. He

Chuck Piebes was named Tues­the football, baseball and baskel­day to start at quarterback for selected by the coa hing staff ball teams in high school. Purdue in its football season the outstanding no 1-scholarshil· 
Some of his att lctic prowess opener Saturday at home against player. apparently rubbed off from his Texas Christian. As a high school quarterback fa! her who played foot ball and The 6-2, 190 pounder from he led his team in passing and baseball at Colgate. New York state paced th,~ r!lshing, and in interceptions as varsity to a convincing vidory last Saturday over the reserves in their dress reht'arsal Sl~rimmage. 
MAJOR LEAGUES 
The announcement by coach Bob DeMose confimed what had 
N/\TIOI\IAL LEAGUE 

been speculated around campus­that Piebes apparently was the East w L top prospect to succeed the Pittsburgh 78 68 gr:JUated All-American Mi New York 78 70 
Chicago 77 70

Ph!pps, who started for thr· 
St. Louis 71 78 

seasons. 
Philadelphia 66 82

ebes playt.d defensive half­
Montreal 65 82 

back and flanker for Purd fresh.;,an team last year. E West Cincinnati 93 57 Los Angeles 80 67
Novice Boxers 
San Frm. 79 69 Houston 71 76 

Although the famed Bengal Atlanta 72 78 Bouts arc still months away, San Diego 58 91 there is an opportunity for 
anyone who may have an inter­St. Lou is 8 Chicago Atlanta at San Francisco
est in boxing. Novice boxing has 
New York at Montreal

started in the Convo ficldhous.: 
Pittsburgh at Philadelphia

boxing room. 
Cincinnati at Houston

Practice is held daily at 
San Diego at Los Angeles 

4:00pm. Novice is primarily fo;· 
people with no previous exper­ience in the ring or for tt;os~ who would just like to ret int•J shape. All intereskd arc asked tc come. As one Bengal veteran puts it "new blood" is necdr ' for this year's matches. 
Pet. .534 .527 .523 
.477 .446 
.442 
.620 .544 534 .483 .480 .389 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

GB  East  w  L  Pet.  GB  
Baltimore  96  51  .653  
New York  83  65  .561  13%  
1Y:.  Detroit  75  72  .510  21  
BY:.  Boston  75  73  .507  21%  
13  Cleveland  72  76  .486  24%  
13% Washington  68  78  .466  27%  
West  
, 1y,  Minnesota Oakland  88 81  59 68  .599 .544  8  
13  California  78  69  .531  10  
20% Kansas City 21 Milwaukee  58 56  88 91  .397 .381  29% 32  
34% Chicago  53  93  .36~  34%  

Oakland at Milwaukee California at Minnesota Detroit at Cleveland Baltimore at Washington Boston at New York Chicago at Kansas City, 2 






