

.,...v'""o~L-.~~v~.N~o-=--.7 and Saint Mary's College Community MONDAY, MARCH 23, 1970
1oo==-------------~sr::e::r::v:::in=g~thi::e::--1N7:u7:t::re~D~a:::;,Jie 
SRO audience hears speech 
Kunstler sees 70's as decade of resistance 
Eight turn in draft cards 
The Notre Dame Resistance last week increased its membership to eighteen persons, including those that renounced their draft cards last November. Six of the new me mhers are presently Notre Dame students, two are persons visiting the Notre Dame community, and three are dropouts from the University. 
The statement signed by all of the resisters says: "To carry a draft card today is to render homage to a murderous system. We can no longer cooperate with a system which makes objects of men and which deepens the exploitation of the poor and the blacks in American by sending them first to fight a war against the Vietnamest poor. we refuse any claim to privilege under such a system, whether it be that of student, wo­
man, father, or veteran. We wish country as a Maryknoll mission­

In his opening remarks he portrayed 
the city of Chicago as a figure for the 

mood of hatred and fear that he feels is . 
now the greatest obstacle to social change 
in the United States. 
"Chicago has become a way of life," 
Kunstler said. "What happened two years 
ago during the Democratic Convention 
crystallized for many of us its image as a 
microcosm of life in the 70's. The 
conspiracy trial signalled the end of one 
era and the beginning of another. It had a 
life and viatality of its own, and it still 
has it though the thunder of the 
courtroom has moved over into the 
appellate stage." 
Kunstler outlined some of the specific 
details that had led to the charging of 
eight members of the New Left with 
conspiracy involving actions taking place 
at the time of the 1968 Convention. He 
broadly described the history of the law 
that had led to the trial, declaring that 
the so-called Anti-Riot Act had been 
passed in Congress as part of a deal to 
support the Civil Rights Act. Kunstler 
said the Jaw had been formed in reaction 
to the ghetto riots that had followed the 
assasination of Martin Luther King and 
was part of an effort to obtain some legal 
means to deter the demonstrations 
scheduled to take place in Chicago. 
In explaining the events as they took 
place at the convention, Kunstler pointed 
out that the efforts of the demonstrators. 
to secure permits and accomodationf 
were denied by Chicago's Mayor Richard 
D;~ley. He accused Chicago officials of 
refusing priveleges to the demonstrators 
that had always been granted to other 
groups, such as the boy scouts, including 
the right to meet and sleep in the park. 
"As we all saw, the convention ended 
with the world watching the use of police 
force to curb dissent in the streets of 
Chicago," Kunstler said. "That scene has 
left scars on everyone's memory." 
Kunstler noted the command of then Attorney General Ramsey Clark to Chicago officials not to conduct any grand jury investigations under the Anti-Riot Law since the law was of doubtful constitutionality. He said Clark's orders were ignored by Justice William Campbell who instructed a grand 
jury, which Kunstler said Campbell called "my jury", to investigate and return indictments purposely excluding Clark from any access to the reports. Kunstler accused Daley of attempting to "wash the city's dirty linen" with a trial that would make the demonstrators look like "a 
bunch of hoodlums." 
"He proved himself to be a frightened 
man of yesterday trying to explain today 
in yesterday's terms," Kunstler said of 
Daley. "For people like these, the past is 
always more comfortable than the 
contemplation of an uncertain future." 
Kunstler said the eight demonstration 
leaders had been carefully chosen because 
they represented the best possible 
cross-section of the dissent movement, 
the young and the middle aged, the 
academic and the yippie, the SDS and the 
Black Panthers. 
He explained that the men had entered 
the trial with three thoughts in mind, 
rebutting the government's case, 
presenting the reasons for coming to 
Chicago, and attempting to show who the 
defendents were, what they stood for, 
and what they thought. 
"We were confronted with a judge with 
a rigid authoritarian personality, one who 
could not be impartial towards the 
defendents because he hated, detested 
and feared them. The disruptions that 
occurred were not part of a movement 
(Continued on page 6) 

To restrict 

Alumni entry 
by Cliff Wintrode and Jim Holsinger 
Alumni Hall residents at a h<.~ll meeting 
Saturday night decided to deny all 
visitors entrance to the hall on weekends 
unless as a guest of a hall resident. The 
move was made to prevent a repeat of 
Friday night's fight between hall 
residents, their friends, and black people 
from town. 
Immediately after the meeting two of 
the three doors to Alumni were locked 
and at least one security guard was posted 
inside the other door with instructions to 
check I D's and grant entrance only to hall 
members. When a guest came inside, a 
hall resident had to come to the door to 
meet him. 
The fight in Alumni Friday night began when football player Bill Barz, standing in the hallway by his room, was sucker punched in the face by a young black from town. · 
Barz, along with some of his friends who were standing by him, a moment earlier had been talking to a group of blacks among whom was the guy who hit him. 
Barz wrestled his attacker to the floor and was grabbed by friends of the black. At this point, the friends of Barz joined in the fight. 
The actual punching lasted for only about half a minute for almost immediately other people in the hall attracted by the noise successfully separated the blacks and the whites. 
The same restrictions will ·:certa_inly" be in effect the first weekend back Easter vacation, but beyond that "It is impossible to put a time limit on how long they will be in effect," said Alumni HaJI president Tom Schaefer. 
"The situation dictated immediate action to stop a reoccurrence of Friday night. This is something we need as immediate security," said Schaefer. 
"I think the hall generally is 100% behind the restrictions. They find them an inconvenience, but they realize it is a necessary inconvenience," added Schaefer. 
Schaefer said that there were no 
(Continued on page 6) 

by Bill Carter 
A capacity-plus crowd of over 3,500 people filled Notre Dame's Stepan Center yesterday afternoon to hear William M. Kunstler, defense lawyer for the "Chicago Seven" lecture on the effects of the events surrounding the Chicago Conspiracy trial. Kunstler said the trial had sy mholized a transition in eras for the forces of dissent in America, ushering in an era of "resistance" to replace the era of "prot~st" that had characterized the 60's. 
Kunstler's appearance on the stage at Stepan was greeted by a standing ovation from the audience which lined the aisles and back of the room as well as filling all the seats on the floor. He acknowledged his longtime desire to see Notre Dame and speak to its students. 

to stand with men against the ary, Melville was involved with 
brutality which oppresses them, the Guatemalan revolutionaries, <.~nd we renounce privilege in for which he was censored by his order to rejoin our brothers order, the Catholic Church, <tnd who remain subject to exploita­the ('J A. tion and death. We seek their Chris Cotter, a junior theo­liberation and ours through a logy major, said of his action, "I revolution of consicnce." hope no one looks on this as a 
Eight of the signers turned in self-righteous act. I'm not saying their draft cards after Howard that every body should do what I Zion's lecture last Thursday did. It is a very personal night in a planned action. They decision. One should do what he are Chris Cotter, Edward Roic­feels in conscience is necessary. 
kle, Christopher M. Windle, Th<tt's all that I did. 
David James, James P. Leary, 
Film on King to re shown
William Golden, Regis Snyder, and John Williams, as Assistant A documentary film on the Professor in History. 
late Dr. Martin Luther King will David James, one of Ihe he shown Tuesday night in signers, is a draft counseler for 
Washington Hall at 8 p.m. The the South Bend Draft Union. 
entire licket price of $5 will he Arthur G. Melville came to 
contributed to the Martin Lut­Notre Dame last Thursday from 
her King Jr. Special Fund for the Washington, D.C., with Howard 
war against poverty, illiteracy, Zinn. Melville is awailing sen­and social injustice. The Stu­tence for his actions in 1968 dents Against Racism, the Non­
with the "D.C. 9" and is an vioknce program, and S U AC are ex-miSSionary in Guatemala. sponsoring the film since no city While in that South American 
theater would. 

MONDAY, MARCH 23, 1970 
PAGE 2 
THE O.&rERVEil 




Sophomore Literary Festival receives grant 
by Tom Huffendick 
The Sophomore Literary talk the language of literature to Festival has received a $3,000 young people." grant from the National Endow-· The same night, Ishmael Reed ment for the Humanities, a will speak on "Contemporary federally funded organization Problems in Literature." Reed-a that promotes the arts in Amer-poet, novelist, and sometimes ica. actor-was instrumental in 
Bob Hall, chariman of the founding the East Village Other, SLF, noted that "Father Hes-one of New York's underground burgh helped us a great deal with newspapers. Hall affirmed that the grant," and without it "we Reed "Will be one of the most would have been in very difficult sought-after authors in the U.S. financial straits." The festival is in about five years." expected to cost between twelve 
' and thirteen thousand dollars. 
The grant has been earmarked for allotments to the authors appearing at the festival. These include Theodore Solataroff Ishmael Reed, Clarence Browne, and Tom Wolfe. The choice of these speakers was based on "literary merit rather than best seller lists, a dubious criteria," Hall said. 
Theodore Solataroff editor of 
Phelan writes 
the New American Review liter­ary magazine, will lead off the 

a short story 
feslival with his keynote address The Rev. Francis Phelan, at 4 p.m. on Sunday, April 12. C.S.C., assistant professor of Hall explained that Salitaroff fits English at Notre Dame, has auth­in excellently because he "canl ored a short story titled "Lux­
uria Larvata," which will appear in the University of Georgia 
Review this spring. Fr. Phelan teaches Anglo-Irish 
NOTICE 
Students planning to 
literature and courses in short
student teach during First 
fiction, and will pursue research Semeste1; 1970 7l must 
on the works of James Joyce report by April 10. 
this summer at the National Library in Dublin. His storiesSt. Mary's College students have appeared in the New go to Room 320, 
Yorker Magazine, the Catholic Madeleva Hall. 
World, and the Irish Digest. In University of Notre Dame 
1963, he completed a book of students go to Room 110 
short stories titled "How to East, Memorial Library. 
Found Your Own Religion." 
WRIGHT SLACKS ARE FOR OKING 


GOOD 
Wright Slacks are for looking good on the hanger and on you. The secret? Fit. So if you want good fashion in the sea­son's newest colors and fabrics, think Wright. Wright Slacks . . . try them on for size at any good store. 
UJright slacks 
States." Wolfe is noted for his
The events Monday, April 13, 

"pop journalism," demonstrated
include a talk on the Black 
in The Electric Kool-Aid Acid
Renaissance by Claude Browne, 
Test.
author of Manchild in the Prom­
Stuart Montgomery, Gary

ised Land. Hall indicated that 
Snyder, and Allen Planz, among
Browne should be especially 

others, are also scheduled to
interesting beause "people don't 
attend.
seem to believe what he says 
A special feature of this year's
because it's so incredible." 

festival is the fact that each
Tom Wolfe will appear Thurs-

author will be around for a
day, April 16, to speak on "New 

couple of days so as to allow
Journalism and How It's Shaking 

contact with small groups of
Up the Literary World." Hall 

students. Furthermore, class­
called Wolfe "one of, if not the, 

room visits will nut be limited to
top journalists in the United 

-English classes, but will also 
Cronin hits loss of Catholicism 
by Rich Smith 
"Although it cannot be proved statistically, there has been a definite loss of the Cath­olic spirit at Notre D;o~me." 
With those words, Dr. Edward Cronin, 1938 graduate of Notre Dame, inember of last year's Curriculum Revision Committee, and professor in the General Program of Liberal Arts, expres­sed his feelings concerning the current state of this community. 
Dr. Cronin cited the removal of the crucifix from classroom walls and the demise of class­room prayers as indicative of the decline of the University's Cath­olicism. 
Dr. Cronin said that he does not advocate a return to the Notre Dame of thirty-five years ago, but he stressed the import­ance of "being different from a school named after an Indian tribe or an oil baron." 
While emphasizing the fact that he did not desire a faculty that was all Catholic, Dr. Cronin said, "It makes a difference for the student if he's never said a prayer. It makes a difference for the student to see someone inside and, more importantly, outside the classroom who has a certain commitment in life." 
When asked about the rele­vance of a Catholic education in a non-Catholic world, Dr. Cronin cited the example of a person joining a labor union and later discovering that it was Commun­ist-backed. 
"Do you stay or leave? I say you stay with it and try to influence it. Sure the world isn't Catholic. It isn't even religious. But you can influence it. Yes, I think that the Catholic univer­sity can prepare a person for the world." 
Brown named 
award winner 
James L. Brown, son of Mrs. 
and Mrs. Jack H. Brown, RR 7, 
Elkhart, Indiana, has been 
named winner of the Excellency 
in Accounting award sponsored 
by the Haskins & Sells Founda­
tion. A cash gift of $500 
accompanies the award. 
The award is presented an­
nually to a senior student in 
accounting who maintains the 
highest academic average in his 
class. Brown has a 3.87 average 
out of a possible 4.0 and carries 
a straight A average in account­
ing. 
He is a member of the Beta· 
Alpha Psi and Beta Gamma 
Sigma honorary fraternities and 
was a member of the three-man 
Notre Dame team that was awarded first place in the recent Intercollegiate Business Game contest at Emory University, Atlanta, Ga. 

could alleviate its financialIn response to a query con­problems if it "told the story ascerning the role of the Reserve it really is."
Officer Training Corps (ROTC) "When the alumni and friendsand of Dow and CIA recruiters give us money, they don'ton a Catholic campus, Dr. 
expect anything in return. GulfCronin stated that these ;:;~~!es 
Oil's going rate is 12%. If youwere only symptoms of a deeper told the people what was reallywrong. 
needed, you would have abun­"The alma mater-the loving dant money. You would not be
mother-has become a prost­a mere service institution."
itute. The University no longer Replying 1to a question con­has a loving concern for her cerning the feasibility of tryingchildren. She will sell herself to to operate without governmentthe highest bidder." 
or corporation funds, Dr. Cronin"We even have pimps. Name­said, "If the only way a univer­ly, the deans and heads of insti­sity can stay alive is to cater totutes who go out looking for those who would use it to theirmoney." 
own ends, then it is no longer a Describing himself as an university but a service institu­
• "idealist without illusions," Dr. tion, serving anybody who will Cronin felt that the University give it money." 

Postal talks may begin 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The federal government, citing in­creasing reports of dissident mailmen returning to work, yesterday agreed to discuss the issues in the dispute with the seven postal unions if encough strikers are back on the job today. 
The announcement by Labor Secretary George P. Shultz was an apparent compromise of earlier government demands that no negotiations will be held until the men are back to work. 
Shultz said he would meet with the union leaders today "on the assumption that people will be back to work" but would not discuss the issues unless enough of the workers were back on the job and postal service restored. 
Although several large cities reported mailmen returning to work, still others voted yester­day to join the mailmen's strike. They did so in the face of a threat that federal troops would replace them. 
Maj. Gen. W. P. Wilson, head of the National Guard bureau, said he was prepared to get his guardsmen mobilized within 24 hours after receiving word from President Nixon to do so. Nixon, who canceled a weekend vaca­tion to watch developments from the White House, had hinted Saturday he would call in the troops if the strike lingered. 
Some postal clerks in Chicago, the largest U.S. mail center and a key to nationwide shutdown, and in Pittsburgh, returned to work yesterday, but the letter carriers stayed away. Letter carriers voted in Madison, Wis., Atlantic City, Camden and Tren­ton, N.J., and Royal Oak, Mich., to return to work, but their counterparts in other cities, such 

encompass such classes as Socio­logy and General Program as well. Hall mentioned that the faculty has been a bit reluctant 
to have the authors go to St. Mary's. 
All lectures will be free, thanks in part to the films spon­sored by the SLF. Movies still to 
be shown are "Taming of the Shrew" April 7, and "2001: a Space Odyssey" April 17. "Belle De Jour," originally scheduled for March 9, has been resche­duled for May 6 and 7 . 
as Philadelphia, Detroit and Brooklyn, voted to continue . their wildcat strike. They were 
joined by mailmen in Worcester, Mass., and Council Bluffs, Iowa. 
Mailmen in Louisville, Ky., Omaha and Baltimore voted yesterday not to strike, while other major cities scheduled votes for today. 
James H. Rademacher, presi­dent of the National Association of Letter Carriers, the main union in the walkouts, said yesterday postal workers were expected to return to work Monday in Scranton, Pa., Car­bondale, Ill., Las Vegas Nev., Houston, Tex., and Boulder and Colorado Springs, Colo. 
Citing these examples, Rade­macher said he expected "an almost complete return to work by Tuesday morning." 
The administration has insis­ted it has no voice in the matter of wages, since only Congress can grant pay increases. Senate Democratic leader Mike Mans­field said yesterday "we'll forego our Easter recess if we have to" to enact special legislation. The wildcat walkouts, which began Wednesday, already were show­ing their effects on the business and financial community where layoffs were threatened at some firms and others took steps to make deliveries without the mails. 
Rademacher said after the 90 minute meeting with Shultz yesterday that "certain subver­sive elements," particularly the Students for a Democratic Soci­ety, were the cause of the New York members voting for the first postal strike in U.S. history. 
"Last year members of the SDS took postal examinations 
and have entered the postal 

service," Rademacher said. 
MONDAY, MARCH 23, 1970 
PAGE 3 

7118 OBSERrJER. 

Senate votes on MG funds, Stay Senators 
b AI D f
Y e reese 
Last night the Student Senate 
ml'l to <.:onsider the following items: the question of where the Mardi Gras funds should go, the procedure for Student Life Council elections, and the mat­ter of Constitutional revision. The eledion of new St11y S~na­tors ended last night's meeting. 
Fred Dedri<.:k, Chairman of the Charity Chest Committee, informed the Senate that ap­proximately $3,500 was avail­able for distribution. He stated that the Finance committee 
suggested that the following amounts be given to these 
·h
c antics: $100 to an ad for the Bengal Bouts, $200 to the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Mental Health Association, $1,700 to C'ILA, and $1,000 to Students for Biafran Relief. The distribution of the remaining $500 will be determined at a later date. 
Dedrick also brought forth recommendations for the ele<.:­tion of SLC representatives. First, the tentative dates for the elections are from April 19 to 23 and that these representatives take offi<.:e on May 1, unless there is any unfinished business 
that the present SLC has to deal 
. . .. h d
With. If the SLC IS not flms e 
· . · 
w1th the1r work, the date WI.11 b e changed to June I. It was also recommen~ed that there, be one representative from Off-Campus, two fr?m the South Quad, and three from the North Quad. An alternate proposal ~as to make Grace_ a~d Flanne~ mto a separ­ate d1stnct ty takmg one repre­sentative awa~ _from. the North Quad, and _glVlng · h1m to the Towers. Th1s proposal would make the population of the 
0.ff-Camt>us district and the Towers district approximately 
GSU discusses SLC, pay cafeteria 
by Brother Patrick Carney 
The Graduate Student Union debated Friday what action it would take regarding Student Life Council Seats and Cafeteria prices. 
After members of the G.S.U. requested membership on the S.L.C., the latter offered the graduates four non-voting seats. 
The reaction of the member­ship at Friday's meeting was divided into roughly three camps. Some favored accepting the proposal of the Council to send four members to the meet­ings to decide whether to ask for permanent seating, while others took a "thanks, but no thanks" attitude. A final group suggested that if the graduate students do not get voting representation, then they will declare themselves independent of any rules set by similar research on this matter last year ran into similar difficul­ties and found that one of the reasons for the high cost in the pay cafeteria was to make up for the waste caused by those who eat in the dining halls. 
Delegates also requested that the study be extended by asking that people in the restaurant 
business  be  contacted  to  see  
what  they  thought  about  the  
reasonability of figures.  

Copies of the report are avail­able for those who are interest­ed. 
In other business, the G.S.U. voted overwhelmingly to invite members of the faculty senate to join them at meetings with full speaking rights. 
Ed Isley is working on a study of the library with emphasis on the assignment of carrels. He pointed out that if any of the graduates have other complaints about the library facilities or services, they should contact him. 
Upcoming G.S.U. activities will feature a party on March 25 at the Issac Walton league and possible volleyball and softball leagues if someone can be found to run them. 
April .7 has been set as the date for a special meeting to consider and vote on the consti­tution. The next two regular meetings have been shifted to the meeting room at LaFortune Center due to the unavailability of the library auditorium. 
Elections for new officers will take place in May. 
equAal. t' .tt · 
n e1ec wn comm1 ee was 
. t d b J>hil M K t 
appom e y c enna o
study campaign procedures and to set rules for candidates. Members of this committee are 'Joseph Tigani Tom McDerm-
George' "Buz" Craven ~~:[~.. Schmidt and Jim DeSapio. They will discuss cam­paign expenditures, poster sizes, and other various aspects of the election. 
A current bill before the Senate con<.:erning elections is the proposal to declare second semester Seniors ineligible to vote. This bill, written by Joseph Tigani of Fisher, and co-sponsor­ed by Thomas McDermott, would take away the vote from students who don't really have a stake in the Student Govern­ment. This would cover the Student Body President elec­tions and the Student Life Council elections, but not the Senate elections because they are held in the fall. The next item to come before the Senate was on the matter of Constitutional Revisions. Donald Mooney suggested that a com­mittee be formed to revise or rewrite the present Constitution. This committee would be made up of the new SBP, the SBVP, the new Stay senators, and members of the Hall Presidents council equal to the number of Stay Senators. The prime consi­deration of the Constitutional Revisions Committee would be Dave Krashna's proposal to abolish the Student Senate. The 
members of this committee from 
· · .

the Hall Presidents Council will 
,

be chosen at tomorrow nights meeting of the Council. 
The final part of the Senate meeting was devoted to the election of the new Stay Sena­tors, The Senate can have from one to six stay senators; for the past two years th~re have_ been four and agam th1s year 1t was moved that there be ~ _QUr. Eight Senators w~re no~mat~d; 
in order of theu nommatton they are: Tom Thrasher, Eric Andrus, Fred Giuffrida, Donald Mooney, Mark Zimmerman, Russ Stone, Steven Flavin and 
H. Patrick Weber. The vote was taken by secret ballot where each man voted for four candi­dates. There was a disagreement on whether the vote should be by majority or plurality. A vote was taken and it was decided that it should be by majority. The results are listed below: 
Thrasher-24 Giuffrida -21 Stone-20 Weber-18 Andrus -15 Mooney-14 Zimmerman-14 Flavin -12 
A majority of 18 was needed, making Thrasher, Giuffrida, Stone, and Weber the new Stay Senators. 
Also, during last night's Senate meeting Fred Giuffrida and Tom Mignanelli were appointed Student Government representatives to the Faculty Senate. 
the S.L.C. since they had no.------------------------------------------------------1 
voke in setting up such regula­tions. Paying for parking stickers was used as an example of such a rule. 
For the time being, the group has decided to send a representa­tive to the meetings and will suspend taking further action until a later date. 
With regard to the pay cafe· teria, Joe Marchese, who has researched the <.:osts and quality of the food for four and a half months, gave his report. 
Among the difficulties he en­countered was the fact that the management of the food services would not permit him to see the books on the financial opera· tions. Thus all of his figures are based only on the costs of the food to the cafeteria and the prices charged. Marchese admits that there might be justification for the high mark-ups, but says that it is impossible to find out unless he can have access to the costs for labor and overhead. He did, however, take shrinkage and the like into account. 
Among the highest mark-ups which he mentioned were lJ70'% for beets, 7':JO'Yr· for peaches, 340% for pork sandwiches and cod and 300')!. for apple juice. For example, he calculated that a class of this last wmmodity 
..:osts the cafeteria .05 and is sold tor .20. 
i\mong the suggestions for possible readions, were the pub­lishing of the report with a request for a response on the part of the food services to explain the costs. Also mention­ed was the idea of a boy cot I of the cafeteria. 
It was reported to the body that the unde.rgraduates who did 
file Ob~erver is published daily during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni· varsity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from the Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
One looksays a·lot. One drive says it all. 
NewCamaro. 
Wedidn'tmakeitfor just anybody. 
We did make it for people who like sleek new shapes. Long hoods. And fast fastbacks. 
We made it for people who like to clrive on a road. Not just ride on it. 'rhai's why Camaro has an improved road-hugging front and rear suspension. 
Camaro is made for people who like to choose their power. Four transmis­sions are available. And six engines, up to the Turbo-Jet 396 V8 with the SS version. 
It's for people who aren't necessarily fond of large crowds. There are two buckets up front, two bucket cushions in back. And longer doors that make them easier to get to. 

We made the new Camaro for people who like the stopping power of front disc brakes. And protection of side-guard door beams. It takes a certain kind of person to drive a car 
like this. Because it says a lot about the way he thinks. .••. What do you think? 43='pj(OJ!U 
Putting you first, keeps us first. 
See tt.At your Chevrolet Dealer's Sports Dept. 
Camaro Sport Coupe ll'ith Rally Sport packuyt'. 


Enter the '70 Chevy Sports Holiday Drawing. Now thru March 31. You could win a week-long trip lor t.wo to a famous srorts PVent,anywh<·r~ in the world! Or a new Camaro or other ~hevrolet sport model !3,145 prizt•s in all. For full d(>t.ails and an entry form, visit your participating Chc>~rolPt DealP.r's Sports DPpartmPnt. H.t>SldPnt.a o.r N~w Jl•rsPy, Iowa, Florida, Ohio, (;~orgia and Missouri may rcquPBt an o•nlry form by s<mdmg a stamp<•d, •~If-addressed envelop<' to their Chevrol<•t d!'aler. This offer void in lh•• slates of Washington and Wisconsin or wherever prohibited by law. 
M,t,l\ltOftJClU(htt: 
PAGE 4 7118 OBS£Rfl£lt 
THE OBSERVER 
An lnd.ptndent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-In-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME,.INOIANA 
Guy DeSapio 
the Age of Resistance? 
There are strange inconsistencies in William Kunstler's ideas about America-past, present and future-or at least in his rhetoric. 
Kuntsler claims that America is entering the decade of "resistance." Indeed it appears we are. People trust their government less and Jess or at least, are lead to believe that they should. The dissent of the 60's Kunstler states, just hasn't worked. War hasn't· ended, racism still exists and people are still starving. Dissent hasn't worked-resistance is the answer. 
It is that call which seems inconsistant-at least in the light of one of his opening remarks yesterday. Lawyer Kunstler said that he and the Chicago Seven defendants believed in the "system" ana that they had nothing to replace it with. What then indeed is the purpose 
of this new "decade of resistence". tf people believe in democracy then the watch word should be parti_cipation, not resistance. Participation in a democracy suggests a conftdence in the built in checks and balances of the system. Kuntsler argues that he, the other lawyers and the defendants in the ~hicago trial used outlandish and abusive language in reaction to a Judge that was u~fai~, prejudiced and not fulfilling his obligations ~nder the constitution. There is an appelate process which is mtended to consider those accusations. To argue that the defendants ~er~ l~ft wit~ no choice but to call the judge a "facist pig", to restst doesn t say much about belief in the court system. Peo~le who claim t~at they believe in democracy and yet who call for resistance are actmg more out of emotion than out of reason. Young people concerned that the war in Vietnam continues without a clear ~nd in sight smash windows or bum a bank as a sign of their frustration and for their "resistance to a government that won't end the_ tvar. Sei_zing buildings, burning banks, and calling judges and pohce~en ptgs and facists doesn't end wars, racism, or poverty. More tmp<:'rtantly such action doesn't help in bringing about understandmg or true peace-that peace which exists in the hearts of men who respect each other's opinions, freedom and integrity. No system of government is perfect and none will ever eradicate all ~he evils _that exist. The important thing is that the people in any soctety contmue to work for all that needs to be done. T~is country has at its disposal the potential to radically change the lives of all men of the world. It possesses knowledge and skills unparalleled in the history of mankind. America's most valuable asset however is it's spirit; its belief in the freedom and integrity of all men; its belief in justice. It is that concern, that spirit which is mirrored in the words of Kuntsler and men like him. It is that spirit too that makes Americans take note of his words and consider them. People have to begin to admit that fact. Dissent and forceful, vocal objection to the policy of our government ·are needed to assure that a governme)lt continues to work for the right goals. But calling for resistance to a government is quite a different thing. Overturning a school bus full of blacks in the South is an act of resistance that no one should condone. Can burning a bank for the opposite idiology be more tolerable? 
For this country to survive and to eradicate evil, and to provide freedom and justice people must continue to believe in democracy and the American commitment to work for improvement. 
Americans should guide their every action by that spirit. Whether William Kunt~ler likes to admit it or not, calling for resistance is a another step toward tearing America apart. 
Business Mgr.: Bruce Reick Ad. Mgr.: Bruce Barker Accountant: John Maher News Editor: Glen Corso  Features Editor:_Dave Stauffer Photography Editor: Mike Mur­phy Night Editor: Dave Lammers  The opinions expressed in the editorials, news analyses, and columns of The Observer are  
Asst.  News Editor: T.C. Trea­ Headlines: Rich Smith  solely  those of  the authors and  
nor SMC  News Editor:  Prue Wear  Layout design: Dave Bach  editors of The Observer and do not necessarily reflect the views  
Associate  Editors:  Cliff  Win­ Layout: Jan Reimer  of St. Mary's College, the Univer­ 
trade, Ann Conway,· Jeanne SWIIeney Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin  Ad Layout: Steve Dollinger Night Controller: Scott "the Selectric Sensation" Braley  sity of Notre Dame, their admini­strations, faculty, or student bodies.  

MONDAY, MARCH 23, 1970 


Yes, I know it's been quite a while, but you can't expect perfect service on the carry downs. 
Dave Lammers 
the Age of Impotence ?• 
William Kunstler's account of the Chicago trial leads one to believe that the conspirators were John Mitchell, Thomas Foran, Judge Julius Hoffman, Mayor Daley, with the Southern Senators, the FBI, and the Chicago police acting as co-conspirators. 
The conspiracy law, we find, was a rider attached to the Martin Luther King Memorial civil Rights Act as a concession to the Southern Congressmen. Ramsey Clark, we are told, viewed the bill as unconstitutional and wanted indictments against the police and city officials rather than against any demonstrators. Clark even warned that if the Nixon Administration used the anti-riot act against Chicago demonsjrators, "It would be a clear sign that a crackdown was on its way." 
The crackdown came. Judge Hoffman was able to employ the immense powe_r of the state in what a Harvard Law School Professor called "an outrage unparalleled in American judicial history." The purpose of the efforts of the federal government was clearly to intimidate, to frighten, to terrorize, to use "preventive detention". As Deputy Attorney Gene"ral Richard Kleinstadt said: "I think if you could get all of them in the penitentiary you'd stop it. The ringleaders, I'm talking about." · 
Thus, the Jaw becomes not an instrument. of justice, but an instrument of terror. Phones are tapped, undercover agents are employed extensively, a conspiracy of New Left leaders -some of whom had not even met before the trial -is created, a prejudiced judge is employed, all of which is directed by the Justice Department. 
The jury of peers, which is intended to act as a check against such perversions of the trial system, was allowed to gain no perspective of the case. They were confused and uninformed about the true nature of the case, and their compromise decision reflected this failure. 
When the police and the law become instruments of terror for the purpose of repressing dissent, as they did in Chicago, law and order become a mere facade. Instead of being a means of resolving controversy, of deciding between conflicting interests, the powers of the state were used in Chicago as weapons against the potent force of New Left dissent. The authority, strength, and power of the court was used by the Nixon Administration as an attempt to dissolve its most vocal radical opponents. 
When terror is substituted for the true power of the state, when the Jaw become an instrument of violence against one group rather than a means of resolving human conflicts. the state has become 
impo.tent. When the state has lost its ability to effect the necess·ary changes that the members of the state require, the state has become impotent, it has lost its power, and it must resort to violence and massive untruths to retain its position. This takes for granted that a good state derives its power from the ability to effect social change, rather than through its ability to inflict punishment through the police or the penal system. 
In Chicago, the demonstrators were protesting a system which they judged to be impotent. They were protesting many things: the control of the electoral process by the Democratic party elite, the war, the inequality of wealth, the inequality of the races. 
We can each judge whether meaningful social change is being affected. We can each decide if the school system is progressing or disintegrating, if racism is being dealt with or preserved, if militarism is being fought or encouraged, if the poor are being helped or are remaining in squalor. 
If we are moving toward disaster, the rage of those that demand social change and do not see it will increase. If the state has become so large and so bureaucratized that it is unable to answer its dissenters, then trials such as Chicago will become commonplace, bombings will increase, the public officers will resort to terror and untruths on a wider scale. 
In the government must imprison its dissenters through Stalin-like terror tactics, then impotence has become dominant and violence has replaced the true power of the state. Let us hope that the state. will soon recognize that its power to affect social change does not depend on its ability to inflict violence on its dissenters. 

MONDAY, MARCH 23, 1970 
THE OBSERIIDt 
PAGE 5 

Mart Crowly discusses his work 'The Boys in the Band' 
needed too many extras. We needed to sitting up with his two room-mates-thedon't remember how long I thought specify it a little more and make it a little three of us were just watching television.
about writing "The Boys in the Band" 
more confined. Otherwise it might have Bob walked in with the script under his
specifically but it was sort of brewing turned into one of those bar plays of the arm and he didn't say anything and he
around in my head for easily six months 
thirties. I wrote the play very fast. After I went into the other room and then he
before I wrote it. Once I began to think about it, the various elements which I had had thought about it for a long time, I came back and said,"What do you think wrote the first draft in about five weeks. of it?". He said aloud to the group: "Mr.
been thinking about came together. 
Out of those five weeks came what Crowley has written a bold play." He said 
It had long occurred to me that it a situation Bob Moore referred to as "the library that two or three times in different ways,
would be good for some 
version" which was very much longer like "very bold" and "very bold fellow."
people to get drunk at a party and let than it is and was very over-written. Out And my agent when she read the play
their hair down and all call up the person which I had thought about using for a of that long version we began to cut it was pretty much stunned. She said that I and pare it down and emphasize the focus should write it as a novel-that it was too
television show at Four Star. It was 
within the piece . I must have cut out much. I think it was really very difficult
supposed to be four women. who have a easily a half-hour to forty minutes. I to read the play and zero in on how it
reunion, an idea which really comes from 
the story of "Uncle Wiggly in showed it then to most anyone who ought to be done, and I think the would read it. I showed it to Janet impression that one gets from just reading
Connecticut". I went to a birthday party 
Roberts who later became my agent, to is that the whole thing is camp or thatonce that was given for a friend of mine Bob Mooi:~ ~ho later directed it. I everybody would be very "faggy" in it. I 
in which there was a sort of diverse group of people collected and it occured to me 
showed it to Richard Barr, to a friend of know that actors who read for the play mine named Charles Gyns who was who had never seen the SGfipt or didn't
that night that a birthday party was a instrumental in getting it performed. A know how it was to be done would read
good situation in which to put the play­lot of my friends had read it. They didn't Michael like he was very "minty" and
an event for the play. 
that, of course, was so wrong. TheThe first idea that came to me when I really know what to make of it. 
sharper ones knew what I was talkingthought about writing this play was to I remember the night that Bob Moore about.
put it in a gay bar, but it got too read it. He read it backstage when he wa~ I gave it to a boy named Chuckcomplicated because it would have working in "Cactus Flower". I was later 
Gyns-we had gone to college together and he was the managing director' of the Playwrights Unit, and I just went down to see him one night because I hadn't seen 
Division of Music at IUSB 
the Episcopal National Convention last
The expansion of the music curriculum him in years. He asked me what I was
fall.
of Indiana University at South Bend to doing and I told him that I had written a 
full divisional status and the appointment During Demaree's tenure at Indiana play and was moving back into New 
of Robert W. Demaree, Jr., as chairman University at South Bend, the music York. He said he was interested in reading of the division were announced today by offerings of the local university have it. I sent it over to him and he read it inDr. Lester M. Wolfson, Chancellor of moved from rudimentary elective courses one night and called me the next day and IUSB. to major divisional status, with an ex-said that he would like to do it in the 
Both actions were approved recently tensivc pattern or Classes ror undergraO­workshop. I said fine. 
by the Trustees of Indiana University. uates and graduate music majors. Dem-Then he had to get other people'sThe Division of Music becomes the aree has emphasized relationships with approval before it could go through andfourth academic division at JUSB. The local music organizations, and with the we had to sit around and wait til all those 
others are the Division of Arts and public school music programs. 
people read the script. We didn't haveSciences, the Division of Business and He was instrumental, for example, in any money to put it on. Bob Moore was
Econ omics, and the Division of Educa-the founding of the South Bend Youth
1 then working in another play,
tion. ' Symphony, an orchestra composed of "Every thing in the Garden", and he only Demaree's title formerly was director selected seventh, eighth and ninth graders had some afternoons to work. The actors
of music. He joined the IUSB faculty in from South Bend and surrounding school available were not all of the first caliber1965, and is assikstant professor of systems, now in its third season. The and some of the people I asked to be in it music. group is co-sponsored by the South Bend couldn't. I asked Leonard Frey and BobA native of Greenwood, Ind., he holds Community School Corp.f and JUSB. 
always wanted Leonard and finally we bachelor and masters degrees in music Demaree has arranged for two chamber~ offered him the part to do, but he was 
from the Indiana University School of music groups to take residence at IUSB, involved in the Jerry Robbins workshopMusic in Bloomington, and is currently the Symphone Quartet of Indiana Uni­and couldn't get out of that. 
completing his doctorate. While at versity and the South Bend Chamber Kenneth Nelson was like finding a I.U.-Bloomington, he served as assistant Orchestra. He initiated and administers jewel. We had read so many boys for director of the Indiana University Music the annual South Bend Chamber Music Michael and they just didn't have it and Clinic and Performer's Clinic. A former Festival; the I970 Festival is currently Kenneth came in. Mostly people wanted member of the U.S. Army Chorus, Wash-under way· to stay out of it or didn't want to haveington, D.C., he is also a composer; his In addition to his administrative res­anything to do with it and at that pointworks include a "Quartet ·in A" which ponsibilities, Demaree is on the Board of there were lots of melo-dramatic was premiered by the Berkshire Quartet, Directors of the South Bend Chamber reactions people throwing the scriptand a "Festival Mass" which was pre-Music Society, and is musical director of down and walking out. Or people we sented during the opening ceremonies of the South Bend Recorder Society. 
would offer the parts to would either be kindly about it and say ~'I'll do it in your·The State 0 f Grace living room but I won't do it on stage", . . or "I'm afraid of it and I can't have 
the m1ddle of the floor and on t~e thud anything fo do with it.''
by Gene Molinelli 
It was very simple. For freshmen lthat ~.tall tapped out famous ,selec_bons of I can think of about three different is, sophomores in the year following the ~us"S~lpakeN_Zahra,t,hTushtra t while humt-actors that we offered Larry to that 
0 

room selections) floors 2, 3 and 4 would mmg I ent . 1g t. e at empt was wouldn't do it. Some of them would do probably be open unless, because of the be frank, mus1cal. The do~n cr~aked open other parts. Alan is a "safe" part so alot elevator situation floors 4, 5 and 6 would 
and then shut sharply behmd ~lm. of people said, "well, I won't play be open instead, in which case six-man Thk~re :-vereh~hree oGthers md_dthe stall, Donald and 1 wouldn't play 
spea mg m w 1spers. eorge 1 not seesuites would all be filled with the possible any of them but he recognized them byexception of the 4th floor, and four-man the flickering candlelight illuminatingsuites would be open but in great demand their feet. There were the calloused feetuntil they ran out, while if singles were of Pete, and the slippered feet of "Pop"reserved for incoming freshmen (seniors flanking the maroon-socked feet of Paulthis year), Seniors (Juniors this year) will who by merit of his 3.9 had obviouslybe the only others living on the coveted taken the place of honor.
I I th floor. Which means a freshman It was half an hour before Georgeeither found a friend with an astrono· re-emerged from his rendezvous in themical grade point average, or left the dark-relieved and refreshed (it turnedTower. 
out that the meeting had been held in aGeorge's best friend has a 1.5 which rather convenient place). He slipped back didn't make hini a very valuable friend at to his room and slid into bed. lt was allalL Besides, Henry had a tendency to set: Paul would get rid of the hated Raysnore. 
Beez while keeping "Pop" U. Lahrity and It was midnight, on the second night Pete Sonalati. That left room for eitherafter the above plan was gaily adopted by George or Henry, and George had justthe Junior-laden Hall Council, when closed the deal. 
George stole out of his room amid Hen­All he had to do was build some sort ofry's snores, garbed completely in black, shrine on top of the library and dedicatewith sunglasses to hide his identity and a it to the three, and spend about one hourcandle to light his way (there had been a a week with it chasing the birds away.
party the night before and the hosts had Really, it was not too much to ask ..
not yet seen fit to return the bulbs), George slinked to the third floor john. He 
Evaluations Those -~tshing to·-evaiuate courses for
tapped once on the outside door, twice SMC Teacher-Course Evaluation should
on the inside door, then entered a Larry, but I'd play Alan". They were afraid because either they were homosexual to start with and were afraid of some kind of exposure or they were brainwashed that if they played these roles they would become identified with them and wouldn't get cast in anything else. It shakes up Cliff Gorman a bit I think, and maybe rightly so, but he's not gay and doesn't have any hangup about that. Nevertheless, he's done "Justine" and this, and although he couldn't be farther removed from it and it could be like Boris Karloff, a gentlman, who suddenly gets cast in nothing but ghoul 
parts. 

l was so pleased though with the way Bob Moore put it all together. We worked on it together throughout. I came to New York and was living in his apartment and he was an old friend. We had talked so much about the play before it was ever written and he was working in "Cactus Flower" and l was living in California, he took his vacation and came out there and spent a week. We used to drink a lot and stay up very late and talk about the state of the theatre and playwrighting in gen­eral and I told him about the play. He said, "I think the time is very right for it but you better do it quick because somebody else will," ahd then I remem­ber somebody asked me after I wrote the play why I did it and I said, "To beat the British". It seemed to me that it was going to come from England any minute. 
I just got it under the wire. 
"Staircase" had just come out and when I heard about "Fortune and Men's Eyes", I had a heart attack. l was already going around with the script of The Boys in the Band under my arm. I remember when I first came back to New York the first two plays I went to see ~ere "Fortune and Men's Eyes" and "The Birthday Party" was about but I just hoped that it didn't spoil the birthday event. As a matter of fact, that was one of the earlier ideas for a title but then I couldn't use it. I later found out that what I was afraid was going to happen to my play unfortunately my play did to 
some other people's plays. Arthur Law­rence had written a play which The Boys in the Band at least arrested for a few minutes but the play is now going to get done and I have spoken to Arthur since and he says that he has re-investigated his 
play. The title, The Boys in the Band was 
on the first draft. A friend of mine that I used to read the play to every weekend­he lived in Laguna Beach and l used to 
drive down there on Friday nights and have dinner with him-and he was very, very hip to the literary scene. I used to take his judgement about most every­thing. I would read the play aloud to him-the scenes I had written-and when I told him the title he said it was just a terrible title. He always kept urging me to change the title and I had some other alternates but I never changed it. 
contact Maureen Meter at 4675 or Box
blacked-out john. He ceremoniously placed his candle in 521. Scene from Mart Crowley's 'Boys in the Band.' 
711B OBSERfi.Eit MONDAY, MARCH 23,1970
PAGE 6 
Kunstl er sees 70's as decade of resistance 
are divided and distraught. There is a new
(Continued from page I} -1 
government is sacrosanct, that the courts rested with the young people of America 
era, a new future waiting to be born. The 
engineered to tear down the American are open to the same censure, who can not tolerate the abrasive values 
U.S. must respond to the winds ofjudicial process, they occurred because demonstrative activities, bitterness, in American society. "The finger of scorn change. Unless we do that, we won't do
that process did not exist in that court. frustration and despair that go on in the can not b~ pointed at young people in much more than force the confrontationThe object there was not to punish men streets of the ghetto. Before a court can any but a hypocritical fashion unless we · and usher in the whilrwind, the new erafor crime in order to prevent future crime ask for respect, he said, it must be also condemn all the violence perpetrated of human relations." 
as it should be, but to punish men capable of earning it. If a court openly by our own country and this world of Kunstler said he hoped there were earsderides the constitution and repudiates ours."
because they think certain thoughts," to listen to what he said, that his wordsthe sworn oath of the judge to uphold theKunstler said. 
would not receive the same kind ofconstitution, then it must prepare itself"The disruptions were a reaction to the indifference that President Nixon hadfor disruptions," Kunstler continued. 
Bobby Seale incident. Seale is neither a Of the conspirators, he said, "They expressed toward the Oct. 15
"The Chicago trial taught me a great
madman or a martyr. He wanted only his could no longer be like good Jews and Moratorium, a reaction which prompted
deal about myself, my country and the
right to defend himself. If Hoffma:J had walk into Cyclon B without a fight. They Kunstler to ask, "Who the hell does he 
given him that right instead of shackling life people lead in. it. I see now that the tried to get others to fight all that think he is?" The immediatepast decade was one • of protest, an
and gagging him in court, it would have attempt to cripple the human spirit, overwhelming response of the audience 
been a wholly different trial." experiment with civil disobedience, an 
whether in the courtroom, the university became Kunstler's conclusion to the In explaining his own· actions Kunstler age of learning. It was a true movement campus, or the streets of the ghetto." 
speech, as he claimed that it said moreof people; but the new decade will be one
defended his choice to allow his Kunstler concluded by stating that he than anything he had left to say.
of resistance, symbolized by a clenched
defendents to disrupt the courtroom. "In did not believe a revolutionary stage had In the brief press, conference that
fist."
point of fact, he said he had never been yet been born, but recognized the followed the speech, Kunstler called the"The change has been wrought by ten
held in contempt before, nor had possibility of that action aas Notre Dame audience "tremendous, ayears of inability to reach the root of the
assistant council Weinglass, nor any of the time-honored tradition. He expressed the totally alive and responsive audience." Heevil that is corrupting this society. We
defendents throughf countless court hope that it would not be necessary for indicated that he had much confidence
have just approached the heartland of evil
experiences. · blood to flow to accomplish social that the appeal process would work
He went on to say that he could not that is characterized by the corrosive change. 
perhaps even to eliminate the convictions
actions racism binds people
"repudiate the of my clients that white in a "I only hope that wherever my words since the contradictions in the trial were
because I could not say what I th'?ught grotesque mold, the gross poverty of the and the words of those who talk like me outstanding. an answer
so As to 
was wrong to say." ghetto, and an obscene war that no one we may seem,
reach, Cassandras though disturbances in the courtroom, he saidunderstands."
he a
The tr-ial, said, taught him someone in a position of power wakes up fairer judges would easily eliminate the fundamental truth-that no institution of Kunstler said his hope for the future and sees that the people in this country problem . 
.. 

University Vice-Presidents reply to Nutting letters 
by John Abowd munication sent to all members specific comment on the move­was the only one of the four New projects in the campaign Last Friday Nutting for Pres­of the Board of Trustees, asking ment. However Joyce, Executive who made any comment on the include a door to door survey of ident Headquarters released let­for personal opinions on the Vice-President, did note that: value of the Chancellor-President campus opinion which will con­
merit of the proposal. tinue according to Steve Ray­
ters from four vice-presidents of " ...in all courtesy I should idea. Noting that it "can have the university commenting on All four administrators accept at face value your state­validity ... but a young, dynamic mond, a spokesman for Nutting acknowledged the receipt of headquarters, "until every stu­
the proposed Chancellor-Pres­ment that the 'Nutting for Pres­President is needed." He foresaw ident revision in the University position papers from Nutting ident' campaign is not a practical the problem if distinguishing the dent has been talked to." The Headquarters. Rev. Edmund purpose of this action is to make
structure. The letters came in joke." ~sident from the chancellor if 
response to a March 12 com-Joyce, Rev. John Walsh and Rev. Rev. Jerome Wilson, Vice­the younger president began available on a campus-wide level 
Charles McCarragher made President of Busines I ffairs. accepting invitations "to get into students who can provide the mainstream of life off the answers to questions about the campus." proposal. In addition a survey of 
Nutting headquarters faculty and alumni opinion is 
announced that the number of· being conducted. signatures on their petition has In the planning stages are a climbed to over 1000 as a result second position paper to answer of the distribution of over 8000 attacks which have been leveled 
leaflets in the dining halls and against the proposal and a "Fun 
the maintenance of a booth in (not fund) Raising Dinner" for 
the outer lobby of the library Nutting supporters.
What's so ~~ecial about 
four nights a week. 
Restrict Alumni entry 
(Continued from page I) Alumni Hall. Alumni for too
Beechwood Ageing? 
disturbances Saturday. night and many people is just a place to the hall was extremely quiet. live," he added. Security guards repoeted that To gain a sense of com-, there were complainst from munity, communication with
We must be bragging too much about let Budweiser ferment a second time. 
students who wanted to use the other people in the hall is being
Beechwood Ageing. (Most brewers quit after one fermen­
hall "as a thoroughfare" and set up on a "personal" basis said Because we're starting to get some tation. We don't.) 
from twon people both black Schaefer and will revolve around and white who wanted a place to the sections. He reported that
flak about it. Like, "Beechwood, These beechwood strips offer extra 
go. one or two section leaders on
Beechwood ... big deal." And "If sUrface area for tiny yeast particles 
Schaefer emphasized that hall the first floor have already set Beechwood Ageing is so hot, to cling to, helping clarify 
residents considered Saturday up meetings· in the section with night's action only a stopgap the black hall members present
why don't you tell every­
the beer. And since these 
solution. He said it would not to talk.
body what it is?" strips are also porous, they 
work as a long term solution. Schaefer then said that after So we will. help absorb beer's natural 
"We do not see the present Easter vacation is over, more section meetings of this type will
solution making students more responsible than now. The inci­
First, it isn't big wooden "edge," giving Budweiser 
be set up, and he vowed that "1
casks that we age Budweiser its finished taste. Or in other 
am going to see to it personally in. words, "a taste, a smooth­dent was unfortunate, but we 
haope to reap some benefits that section leaders do this." The possibility that some
But it is a layer of thin ness and a drinkability you 
form it. Hopefully students will people may view Friday's inci­be more responsible toward each 
wood strips from the beech will find in no other beer at 
dent as a reflection on the blackother and more responsible to
tree (what else?) laid down any price." 
concentrations worried Schaefer. 
problems which confront the "The incident is not the direct 
in a dense lattice on the Ah yes, drinkability. That's 
hall as a whole," said Schaefer. 
result of the black concentra­
bottom of our glass-lined what's so special about 
"What is going to help next tions. It is only an indirect result time is a sense of community we

and stainless steel lagering Beechwood Ageing. 
in that black guys from town are striving for right now," he know that black students live in
tanks. This is where we But you know that. 
added. 
the hall, and they assume theySchaefer placed the primary have a right to be there," heresponsibility for Friday's inci­said.
dent on the failure of all "We have never had a black­residents to form a "com­white confrontation within the
Budweiser.. is the King ofBeerse 
munity" in the hall. 
concentration itself and only"We do not have any com­one minor incident which in­
(But you know that.) 
munity right now. Everybody volved a black from the concen­realizes we don't. What we have tration," added Schaefer.
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS • NEWARK • LOS ANGELES • TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS • JACKSONVILLE 
is anumber of cliques," said The second floor of AI umni 
Schaefer contains the black concentra­"We have a number of stu­tions and Schaefer stressed thatdents who are lost in the crowd there was an "extremely naturaland no one has made an attempt interaction" among the black to make them feel a part of and white students on the floor. 
MONDAY, MARCH 23,1970 PAGE 7
THE OBSERUER. 

Violets breeze through Fer1Cing Championship 
their men Thursday to receive
by Stt ..v e O'Connor 
the maximum I 5 points. NYUObserver SportsWriter pulled away from there to win, 
New York University cap­by placing Walter Krause first in 
tured the I 970 NCAA fencing foil with an amazing 21 -2 rec­
championships by a comfortable ord. His brother·Wayne Krause 
margin last Saturday with a total placed second in epee at 17-6 
of 71 points that easily outdis­and Jeff Tishman NYU's entry 
tanced second place Columbia in sabre took third with an 18-S 
with 63 points and defending record. 
NCAA champion Pennsylvania Columbia's Bruce Soriana 
who finished third with 62. Fol­captured the sabre title impres­
lowing these leaders were Navy sively by going 21-2 in the final 
and Harvard who tied for fourth round robin. llis teammates, 
with 55 and Temple and Prince­defending foil champion Tony 
ton who lied for sixth with 52 Kestler (3rd in foil Sat.) and 
points. Notre Dame's Ihreesome 
Harris Knecht added 27 wins tied with Michigan State <Jt 46 between them for Colombia's 
points for tenth place. edge over Penn. Penn placed a 
This 26th annual champion­fourth in epee, a fifth in foil and 
ships held at the Convocation 
a sixth in sabre for their 62 Center saw an interesting rules points. Case Western Reserve change after the first day's 
finished a surprising 9th with competition. The preliminaries 
only two fencers in the finals. were held Thursday to qualify 
Their outstanding individuals fencers for the semi=finals and 
were John Nadas who won epee the following day the rules 
at 18-5 and Frank Nagorney committee decided to hold a 
who placed second in sabre with round robin with the remaining 
a I 9-4 record. fencers in each division, instead 
The Irish performance was of again having qualifications for 
overshadowed by the powerful a restricted final Saturday. squads from the East who had Fifteen of the 46 competing 
the strong individuals. Roger schools ql)alified all three of 
Holzgrafe the senior of the N0 
Sihanouk plans to live in Moscow and Peking 
TOKYO (UP!)-Pnnce Nora­state, also deniea charges made dum Sihanouk of Cambodia said by the Cambodian national as­yesterday the Soviet and Red sembly that he had amassed a Chinese governments have fortune and gave away state granted him permission "to live funds to pretty girls. alternately in exile" in Moscow Sihanouk's statements were and Peking. made in a press note issued in 
Sihanouk. who was deposed Peking and distributed by the 
last week as Cambodian chief of official Communist New China 
News Agency. (NCNA)
Business Re.view 
He said he has a small sum of money that could last him only
presents award 
"afewmonthsinexile." 
The first Notre Dame Student "I have therefore requested if Business Review A ward was pre-the friendly governments of the sented Friday to Joseph T. U.S.S.R. and the People's Re­Oruecker, a senior Finance public of China would, out of major. humanitarian consideration, ac­. The award, created by this commodate me throughout the year's Senior Editors, will be period when I live in exile given for the outstanding article alternatively in Moscow and published in each edition of the Peking, and this request has been Student Business Review. The complied with," he said in the winning article for the present broadcast· monitored in Tokyo. issue was entitled "Special Draw-It was the latest in a series of ing Rights and the Liquidity Sihanouk's statements distri­
quest for a national champion­sabre winner, was also the sabre 
three finished thirteenth in sabre 
champion for the year. His light­
ship.
( l 0-13) and Glenn Kalin finished 
Following the meet Saturday ning explosions from defensive 
twenty-second in foil (7-16). 
Coach Louis Bankuti ot Colum­positions and his sure-footed 
The great performance by Rich 
bia was voted Coach of the Year. attacks were the reasons that he 
Deladrier who achieved All­
Individual winners of this award was voted the honor. In epee it 
American status (6th in foil, 
were also voted to men in each was M.I.T.'s Guy Pommares (5th
14-9) was the bright spot for NO 
weapon. Bert Freeman's 7th in epee) with the flawless style 
and the returning Junior will 
place finish in foil and his aggres­and cat-like· grace, who won the 
give Coach DeCicco something 
sive quickness won him the outstanding fencer award in that 
to build on next year in his 
award in foil. Bruce Sorian, the weapon. 

Rich Deladrier was the onlv bright spot in an otherwise disappointing ND performance in the NCAA Fencing Championship. His sixth place finish in the foil netted him All-America honors. 
Management changes reve~aled 
freshman from Hebron, Illinois, maining in their present jobsSeven students will assume replaces Luke Griffin. include FM program director new positions of management at Taking over as music director Paul Matwiy, assistant FM pro­WSND this Wednesday. Junior is John McElligott. John is a gram director John Sabo, FMSteve OellaPietra was named sta­sophomore from New York program supervisor Maureention manager. He replaces gradu­City, and will step in for Tom Schmizzi, director of sales, traf­ating senior Rick McDonough. 
Laffey. fic and continuity KathleenA management major from The new news director ii~ John Martin, production engineeringMiddlebury, Conneticut, Oella­
Yurko, a junior communication 
director Bob Duffy, and GeorgePietra has served as WSND's 
arts major from Valencia, Penn­
Molnar, chief engineer.
chief announcer for a year and 
sylvania. John served the year as 
one half. 
campus news director. Carl Zwis­
Webster's Last Word Records 1ntroduces
ler is the present director. 
The second

Crisis." buted by NCNA from Peking, Junior Mike Lenehan of Fair-Other department heads re-
Chuck & Mary Perrin Album 
The Student Business Review where he has been since the day 
lawn, New Jersey replaces AI 
THE NEXT OF KIN 

l·s wrt.tten and edt'ted by the after his ouster. d'
lsenman as AM program tree-
Now on sale at the

students of the College of Busi-In earlier statements, he called tor. Mike has served as a music 
ND-SMC Bookstores. 

ness Adml. nt'stration. for the overthrow of the regime d . Cans stolen
programmer, a wnter, announ-Senior Editor Jim Burke said: that replaced him in Cambodia cer and director of special "We hope the creation of the but said he had no intention of products. His major is communi-Thomas Hamilton, head of A ward will serve to encourage making an attempt to regain cation arts. the Students for Biafran Relief more Business students to write power for himself. said last night that several for the Review. We hope to The Cambodian National As-youths from the South Bend re-affirm the Review's position sembly • in voting unanimously Art Martin is the new sports area have absconded with the as a forum for the expression of to remove him as chief of state, director. A junior communica-group's collection cans from the creative business interests of accused him of giving $1,800 to tion arts major from Kenilworth, various locations on campus. the Business student." pretty girls every time one Illinois, Art takes over from Jim These youths have been covering Other Senior Editors are Bill smiled at him, of profiting Crowe. the campus in a supposed Goodyear, Pete Gregware, and personally from the operation of The chief announcer's job is collection campaign, while in Phil Eglsaer. a state gambling casino in the being filled by Marc Carmichael. reality they have been using the The Business Review is capital of Phnom Penh and or Marc is a sophomore communi-money for their own purposes. currently accepting articles for enriching his family at state cation arts major from Muncie, Anybody who sees one of the 
"Where Quality Counts" its May issue. Students inter-expense as well as allowing Indiana. Marc has worked as youthful thieves should appre-TOMPS£TT ested in submitting an article North Vietnamese and Viet both a newsman and announcer. hend them or inform campus should contact one of the Senior Cong troops to violate the The new business manager security police. Studio Editors. country's neutrality. will be John Horeled. John a~-------------....l....__12_2_N~._M_ic_h_i:::..ga_n_2_3_3....:·6_1_5_7_ __, 
~~------------~~----~------~~~~~----~ 
JOBS! JOBS! .md more. JOBS(St~ denu, Teuhers. Stateside and lnter­
Hair Styling
HARPER
na~lonal Jobl. RKreatlonal Jobt; 
for N.D. Men the Continental W.ry
Year·round Jobs; Summer Jobs. A'll occupations and trades. Enjoy a vac•­
Razor Cutting & Style

tlon while you earn. Hurry! The beSt lobs •re taken early. Write: ".IOBS"j 
with Paul Newman 
European Layer Shapin8 for Lon! Hllfr 
:>.Q. Box 475, Dept. CP 163-1, Lr>d~ 
Have Long Hair & Let Miss Treva & ll)e BaroJl
:allf. 95240 
Be Well Groomed serve & pamper you.
tonight 
Continental Hair Styling
306 Sherland Bldg . 

7 o'clock and 9 o'clock 
South Beml Ind. 
STUDENT RATES
2340811

Carroll Hal1 St. Mary's 
By Appt. 

75C 


.... PAGE 8 7118 OBSERJJER. MONDAY, MARCH 23, 1970 
Three defenders survive in Bengals 

by Terry Shields in the entire field. The crowd. nected more often than h1s mous decision of a fight that was Allan to win the heavyweightObserver Sports Writer was "psyched" for this match opponent Gary Canori but evi-marred by an extraordinary title as he took a unanimous
The 1970 version of the Ben-and there was a good deal of dently the judges felt that number of clinches. Ervin won decision. For the first two roundgal Bouts featured only three electicity in the air as the bell Canori's blows did more damage. the fight in the second round as Allan chased Etter all over thechampions who were able to rang. Tom Suddes outpointed Canori won on a split decision. he hit Servant with a number of rings and he landed a few hardretain their crowns. This more another savvy veteran in Paul P. In the next bout the fans jabs. Ervin had won two other rights. Etter showed better con­than any other fact illustrates Partyka to retain the 145 lb. thought they were seeing a ghost titles but this was the first time ditioning in the final round andhow wide-open the Bouts were title. Suddes kept Partyka at bay when the bell rang for the start that he won in this weight class. 
Allen was obviously trying to this year. Friday evening featur-in the first two rounds with a of the 160 lb. title fight. Bill The 175 lb. championship was hold off Etter's charge by clinch­ed some real "sock it out" box-lightening quick jab. Both fight-McGrath's fighting style looked another bout that was full of ing. The judges apparently felt ing and also a few lackluster ers looked to be in great shape so much like his older brothers clinches. Bob Minnix edged Matt that he didn't hold the quarter­
events. and they probably could have that it would be hard to distin-Connelly by a split decision. 
back off well enough. 
One of the champs able to lasted at least three more guish who was who if they Neither boxer showed their true The crowd for the 39th keep his title was the 125 lb. rounds. In the last stanza Suddes fought one another. Not even capabilities in this match and at annual slugfest was an estimated winner, Eduardo Ferrer. Ferrer broke Partyka's timing and this the name McGrath could intimi-· the end both showed that they 3,500-4,000. They were treated won a unanimous decision over insured the unanimous victory date Roland Chamblee, however. were not happy with their per­to a fine display of boxing and Jack Griffin. Griffin showed that for "Sudden Tom." In what was the wildest, best formances. 
no doubt many will return next he was no pushover by using his The ISO lb. fight was a accepted (by the fans), and most Bill Etter outlasted Denny year for more of the same. 
counterpunching ability to the donnybrook that any Irishman exciting match of the evening fullest. The fight was close for would have been proud of. Chamblee outslugged McGrath both the second and third Kevin Kerrigan hammered away to win on a split decision. The rounds but Ferrer's superiority at Mike McNicholas for two fight was so close that a winner in the opening frame won him rounds (two knockdowns in the shouldn't really have been de­the verdict. The announcer made first round) and it looked as clared. On the strength of Iand­a mistake in proclaiming the though "Nappy" (Dominic J. ing more solid punches in the winner and when the correct Napolitano, matchmaker for the final round the split verdict went decision was announced the fans Bangals) had made a mistake. to Chamblee. became a little incensed. None-McNicholas, however, came out The next fight was declared a theless, Ferrer has his third title swinging in the third round and "matchmakers delight" as Grue-
in a row. displayed a tremendous amount some Ed Grenda opposed 
The 135 lb. fight was not the of intestinal fortitude (or guts!) "Gentle Ben" Mike McCoy. The most popular with the fans. Tom and slugged it out with Kerrigan spectators were "up" for this Gould registered the triumph un-until the final bell. Kerrigan won match but when the two giants animously on the strength of a by unanimous decision but squared off the results were rath­good third round. He and Terry everybody that was there will er disappointing. Neither man Kruth felt each other out for the remember the game comeback threw very many rights and since first two rounds but Gould effort by McNicholas. this was an exhibition match no found a few openings in the last The decision of the 15 S lb. decision was given. round to gain the crown. title was the most unpopular of Jed Ervin dethroned Chris 
The next fight featured what any with the fans. It appeared Servant as king of the 165 lb. was probably the finest boxers that Dave Pemberton had con-division. Ervin won the unani-
Court champs welcomed 
EAST CHICAGO, Ind. (UPI) them crowding the basketball real to be the state champion. court.
The Rough Riders of East Bring on UCLA." Chicago Roosevelt High School Coach Bill Holstedt praised It was just as noisy at East rode into town Sunday after­Jim Bradley as the "greatest Moline. where l ,500 persons basketball player that ever
noon on two fire department packed the East Moline high 
played at Roosevelt High School school gym to give coach Clifftrucks--one of them a snorkel 
unit. and the best player in the state Tally and his runner-up team a The new champions of the of Indiana." standing ovation. Indiana high school basketball 
"I think everybody in the Junior Steve Heinzelman said state will be proud of Jim Brad­he hopes the Lions, who are thestate tourney were met by a ley before he stops playing bas­only school to send an unbeaten
two-mile long caravan of vehicles at the intersections of Highways ketball," the coach said. team to the state crown twice, 30 and 41 in Schererville. would come home 62-0 next Junior midfielder Bob Perry scored the winning goal in ND's double· 
year.
Thousands of fans lined the LA GRANGE, Ill. (UPI)-An overtime triumph over Cincinnati. streets as they proceeded down estimated 4,500 cheering fans Indianapolis Boulevard through welcomed the state champion­
Notre Dame LC edges Cinci
the downtown area of East Chi­ship LaGrange Lyons basketball cago to their high school. home and co­
team Sunday The Notre Dame Lacrosse ot Cincinnati 11-10 at the Ste-though they might hold on for
About a thousand more fans captain Scott Shaw demon­Club opened their season last pan Center Field. It took NO the win. Cincy came back, how­were in the combination audi• strated t~1e high spirits of the Saturday in a rather wild fashion two overtime periods to secure ever, and scored with 0:56 re­torium gymnasium-many of players when he said, "It's un­
as they defeated the University the win. maining to send the contest into 
The match was a real seesaw overtime. affair which saw the Irish down After a five minute period by as many as four goals. In the nothing had been decided and it first half the home team played was not until midway through poorly and at one point they the second overtime that the were on the short end of an 8-4 Irish could hurl the ball into the score. The Irish managed to goal. Bob Perry came through score once more before the close with the big shot to win it. of the half and the score stood Kenny Lund, a junior mid­8-5 in favor of the Bearcats at field, played an outstanding intermission. game for Notre Dame as he 
The poor showing in the counted five hig tallies for the opening two stanzas may be Irish cause. Lund's all around attributed to opening game play helped the inexperienced jitters. There were a few fresh-
members of the squad and he: men in the lineup and it took . was instrumental at both ends of them and some veterans a while the field. 
to warm up to the contact. The Irish suffered one The Irish came out fired-up in casualty in their season opener. the second half and at the end of Mike Loughrey, a freshman ' ,. three periods the score stood attack man, dislocated his 9-8 in favor of du Lac. They shoulder and it is doubtful
z~~~~~;..;:;,._,~.J'!!;..·.:.·-.,.-' ~ ~ "
••• > scored four goals and held the whether he will return to the 
Bearcats scoreless over this span lineup this season. 
. ··.;..'>-<rf;l 
s-

to gain the advantage. UC came back to tie the Irish Other Irish goal-producers were·
-~---r•.·.O:_;_~· .--··._.;__,__.~ 
in the fourth period at nine all. (besides Lund) Ed Hoban 2, Jeff
--~;. ~ 
An NO goal gave the Irish a lead True 2, Perry I, and Pete Murray"" --~ /, a ain and this time it looked as l. 
''~ 
lo;de~ 
Action at the NCAA Fencing Championships held this weekend at the Convo: Walter Krause (left) of NYU defeats Tony Kestler of Columbia on his way to the Foil Title. STORY ON PAGE 7. 




