
'Jol. V, No. 50 
Army prosecution opens Calley murder trial 
FT. BENNING Ga. (UP!) The "I ask you in the name of the The court martial board hear­Army opened its My Lai massa­United States government and in ing the Calley case is made up of cre case yesterday against Lt. the interest of justice to convict one colonel three majors and William L. Calley Jr. painted a the accused and find him guilty two captains. All but one have grisly picture of old men plead­of all the specifications as served in Vietnam. ing in vain for their lives and a charged." Daniel took the officers child trying to crawl away from While the army was detailing through the alleged operation the slaughter. its charged against Calley at Ft. step by step explaining that Cal­
Benning another chapter in the ley's platoon landed on the out­The stocky 27 yesr old defen­alleged My Lai massacre-the 
skirts of My Lai by helicopter
dant flushed with anger at some court martial of S.Sgt. David without encountering anyof the claims made by prosecu­Mitchell-was unfolding at Ft. enemy fire. He said Calley foundtor Capt. Aubrey M. Daniel III Hood Tex. A witness in that the villagers "undefended andduri!1g his 22 minute opening proceeding testified that he had unarmed women, children andstatement. Other times Calley been told by another soldier that 
old men in their hooches."
smiled or scribled notes on a Calley and two other Gis were 
"These people were taken in a
yellow pad and passed them to responsible for the slaughter in group to the southern side of thehis attorney. 
the Vietnamese village_ 
villugr and directed to be 
The young lieutenant is In still another action Calley's guarded by Spec. 4 Paul Meadlo charged with first degree murder immediate superior Capt. Ernest and Pvt. Dennis Conti" Daniel in the deaths of l 02 South Medina appeared before a closed explained. Vietnamese civilians March 16, door military hearing in Atlanta "They were told to 'take care 
I968 the day his platoon made a to give additional information in of these people." They started sweep through the little hamlet the case. Medina who also may to guard the people. They didn't of My Lai. If wnvicted he could be brought to trial since he had know what Lt. Calley's intent be put to death or sentenced to overall responsibility for the was. life imprisonment. sweep through My Lai refused to "Lt. Calley returned and 

"There was no fire from the comment on what went on at asked: "Why haven't you taken victims. He executed unarmed the pretriai hearing. The secret­care of these people? men women and children" hearing is similar to a grand "Th•'Y replied: 'We have.' Daniel declared gesturing ac­jury in-•estigation in civil pro­"I mean kill 'em-waste ern' cusingly at Calley. ceeding.s Calley told them." 
Sherrnod, Kezele face -off SLC elections tomorrow 
With SLC elections in the He feels that "a certain semester. towers tomorrow, candidates amount of bog is inherent in any He has been doing door-to­Mike Sherrod and Floyd Kezele organization. But l think if the door campaigning in the towers. are winding up their c:tmpaigns. students come better prepared He says "I'm going to try and 
some of the unnecessary delays reach everyone, but because of Sherrod feels the response to could be eliminated. the time limitations, that's kind his campaign has been good. He Sherrod has also come out for of hard." 
Floyd Kezele Mike Sherrod 

Pakistan seeks world help, 

says "I feel the student needs to sophomore cars and co­The response to his campaign 
~ducation.

be better represented than in the efforts, he says, have been past. Most of the students on the "good." "The students haveHalf a million feared dead board give their own opinion. I Kezele is "in strong favor" of been listening to what I've been
DACCA East Pakistan trees as winds of more than I00 would like to start an open Sophomore cars. He says that it saying. I'm leaving it up to them(UP!) The Pakistan Red Cross mph and waves 20 feet high allll forum where students can come can be passed this year, at the to decide between Mike andurgently appealed for typhoid more smashed out of the Ray o.' 

tnd tell me their opinions." latest sometime in the second ~ne." 
and cholera vaccine yesterday in 
Bengal and destroy~.:d everything a battle to save 2 million suffer­
in their path along the coast of ing victims of a cyclone tidal 
East Pakistan. 


Reactions to new constitution varied 
wave disaster that may have 
"The situation is extremely killed 500,000 people-perhaps serious" an urgent message from 

Various student leaders com­interest." buting to the 60% vote turnout more. the Pakistan Red Cross to Ge-mented yesterday on the pro­Steve Novak, Off-Campus needed for its approval."Unofficial estimates of the 
neva headquarters said. posed constituational referen­Senator and National Student John Barkett, Morrissey Hall nnmber of dead ran far ahead of "More than 2 million people dum set for December 9. Varied Association Co-ordinator, had President and Chairman of the the official count and authorities 
affected. Survivors urgently need opinions were expressed con­similar comments conceming the HPC, said that he objected to said an accurate tally was impos­everything. Request blankets, cerning the new constitution Senate. "I am developing an the original Krashna constitu­si-ble as they concentrated on 
war clothing, 1.000 units of lhat would abolish the Student increasing scm'' of distaste for tion. He proposed certain saving survivors. typhoid cholera vaccine." :)enate. All of those commenting the body as currently structur­changes and sent them to the Official estimates said about 
Officials at the World Health .vere at least somewhat con­ed." Novak also expressed satis­Stud.:!nt Government, but he has 53,000 persons were killed but Organization noted that East cerned as to whether or not the faction with the new constitu­yet to hear from them on the reports published locally said the Pakistan is a traditional breeding referendum would draw the 60% tion for other reasons, however status of those changes. If theyfinal toll in the 2,338 square ground for cholera, a disease of the undergraduate Student he is skeptical of its success in are a~cepted, he will support the mile area of devast~tion may born of inadequately treated Body, needed to make it valid. the referendum. "With semester new charter. Barkett also ques­ultimately reach half a million. 
water and poor sewage systems. Steve Flavin, Off-Campus Sen­tests coming up, most people tions the ability of the StudentThe Pakistan Times published The United States, Britain and ator and Student Government won't take the time to listen to Government to interest thein Lahore by the Government West Germany spearheaded the Executive Co-ordinator, suppor­speakers either for or against the necessary 60% in voting.
Press Trust said officials corn­relief campaign and a Soviet ted the move for abolition of the proposal." 

Badin Hall President, Buzpiling the death toll feared the 
Senate. "I think that the Senate

vessel docked at Chittagong with T.C. Treanor, Badin Hall Sen­
figure may reach l million after Imhoff, explained his views or.
should be abolished for the basic

a cargo of emergency supplies ator, hasn't changed his mind 
the Senate question with a.
a precise survey of the extent of 

including tons of sunflower reason that student government about saving the Senate. Treanor 
rather direct statement. "It's toodevastation. The Times said this 
should by dynamic rather than

seeds and vitamins worth commented, "The project to
covery of new areas which late for such a drastic change·$700,000. abolish the Senate is a miserable
static. It should relate to the 
now, considering the new Uni­were engulfed by the catas­
problems and concerns of the 
one, all wrong from the start and versity Calendar. The present ad­trophe last Thursday and Fri­
,student. The Senate is no longer 
wrong now, It argues from the ministration will be out in April. 
day. 


Flredlll 
!a relevant or credible body. I 
assumption that an appointed Their own inaction has blownIt was becoming increasingly Profess<:>r John Williams and 
, feel that the propo>ed body will 
Student Cabinet is better able to 
it."
cler.r that the disaster would Professor Carl Estabrook, both 
be more receptiv·~ ;md more cap­
speak for the students than anrank among the worst recorded Flanner Ilall President, Joeof the History Department, have 
able in handling the needs and 
elected Senate." As for how an
calamities in human history per­Cassini, agreed with Imhoff thatbeen fired. According to wants of the student." As for apathetic atmosphere will affecthaps even surpassing the toll of the year is too far advanced toWilliams, his contract will not be 

the vote turnr.Jt, "There has 
the vote, Treanor says, "It will900,000 killed in a flood that make a new constitution feas­renewed in 1972 and Esta­
.been a great deal of apathy so 
not be apathy, but active dislike ravaged China's Honan Province ible. He also said that he opposesbrook's is to be terminated in far this year on campus. But I of the new Constitution that willin 1887. 

the abolition of the Senate and1971. Both professors were out­
feel that something that will 
defeat the proposal. Those whoThose who lived through the that the new constitution wouldspoken critics of U.S. foreign 
directly affect the student such 
would vote against the new con­catastrophe told of clinging to not give nearly as effective apolicy. 
as the new constitution will 
stitution will, I suspect, refrainthe tails of cattle or hugging government as exists now.
cre:tte a sufficient amount of 
from voting for fear of contri-




~--------------~ ---~--~--­

Page 2 711£ OBSERVER Wednesday, November 18, 1970 


Features of N D Judicial Code 
If scholars are to dwell together in peast!, they will have to live under law; yet no law can produce peace. The frustration of all law is to face problems it cannot 1'ully resolve. Law at a university is no exception. Notre Dame's disciplinary rules and procedures may perhaps best be understood by their contrasts with the law of the state. Unlike the state, the private university is a voluntary society. The rnost severe punishment available to the voluntary society is expu-Jsion, whereas the state which can neither select nor deport its native-born citizens, must resort to coercive and punitive sanctions. Thus the ulti­mate motive for compllance with law varies in the two societies. In the state, people comply with law both to maintain order and to avoid punishment; in the university, people comply 
with law both to maintain the university itself and to remain a member of it. The very scope of law, then, must diff1!r. In the civil society, 
law touches on private behavior only insofar as it affects the public order. Within the univer­sity, rules reach further, not simply prohibiting students from taking advantage of others, but describing, at least negatively, the life style that makes the university what it is. 
In a voluntary society, members possess a bond of loyalty and commitment that cannot be taken for granted within the civil society. A student would challenge an offensive student more conscientiously, one hopes, than the average citizen would challenge a criminal. Another expectation in a society where men meet as comrades rather than as strangers is that offenders will be dealt with patiently and personally, more to assist and correct than to punish. 
Anott":Hr distinctive feature of the university community is its composition: largely students, with fewer senior men and women, and no children. The pattern of likely misbehavior will be correspondingly distinctive. A college cam­pus suffers little violent crime, but more reck­less mistrl)atment of property and thoughtless abuse of one's f ellows, more cheating and 
stealing dnd boorishness. In a university, con­
cern for the social order and for personal 
growth are functions of education. Students ~ 
as the majority component ~ must assume 
responsibility for setting rules and seeing that 
they are observed, as they stand ready for more 
public responsibilities beyond the campus. 
Faculty and administrators, whose commitment 
to the school is more enduring, and who are 
charged with fostering the character of the 
campus community and selecting its members, 
must share responsibility in this task of social 
learning. 
A particular difference between a voluntary 
society like Notre Dame and the state is the 
ambition of this university to be a place where 
men will become humane, become Christian. 
Notre Dame itself must represent the paradox 
of faith, which imposes more stringent demands 
on one's behavior and social constructiveness, 
yet extends more compassion to those who fail. 
The law of the campus, therefore, should not copy the law of the land. The university rules set few limits on student behavior precisely because there are more positive reasons for most stude~ts to do that themselves. Yet the rules can and do go beyond what is simply required for public order, and so will offend a selfish individualism which causes men to ig­nore all but what touches back on themselves. 

On the other hand, when offenses are alleQP,d or remedied, grounds of comradeship allow for an informality and flexibility of procedure. Due process in a university is not the same as due process in the civil courts, where more elabo­rate precautions are required to protect the accused from abuse. The university does not have nor should it hanker after a pretentious judicial process in the civil style. 
What both state and university should share is a belief in the inadequacy of law, which can neither motivate considerate behavior nor cre­ate community. Comradeship cannot be legis­lated, nor can disciplinary judgment remedy the causes of offense. Any society must look elsewhere than to law for its sources of life and cohesion. With the Rules that follow, the university describes minimally what behavior cannot be tolerated; by these disciplinary pro­cedures it admits unhappily that some of its members will occasionally do what is intoler­able. And for that, something more than laws and courts must be the remedy. So much more is needed if scholars are to dwell together in love. 
I. A. Offenses against the good order of the hall community are considered within the hall. 
B. A student subject to disciplinary action within the hall may choose to have his case considered by the rector, provided the rector accepts. H~ may subsequently appeal to the Dean of Students. 
C. He will otherwise have his case considered by the Hall Board. This Board, composed of hall residents in disciplinary good standing, is chosen as the hall council decides. A senior university person must be present as advisor for all deliberations. The student being considered may subsequently appeal to the rector. 
II. 
A. Offenses against the good order of the university community, or offenses by off­campus residents, or violations of University Rules or Regulations, are not considered by Hall Boards. If hall authorities decide or if the Dean of Students sees the need for it, cases of a very serious nature against the good order of a hall may be considered by the Dean of Students or the University Board. 

B. 
In these cases, a student subject to disci­plinary action may choose to be considered by the Dean of Students, provided the Dean accepts. He may subsequently appeal to the Appeals Board. 

C. 
He will otherwise have his case considered by the University Board. This Board is com­posed of twelve students in disciplinary good standing appointed by the Student Body Presi­dent and the Dean of Students. Three faculty members shall be appointed as chairmen by the chairman of the Faculty Senate and the Dean of Students. The Board itself shall appoint a lawyer and a psychologist as permanent ad­visors. For each sitting, the Dean of Students shall form a panel, in rotation, of at least five members and one chairman, who may not vote. The student being considered may subsequent!·.! appeal to either the Dean of Students or the Appeals Board, as he chooses. 

D. 
The Appeals Board, composed of one student, one faculty member, and one admini­strator, is appointed by the Student Life Council each spring. A student may appeal from this board to the President, provided the President accepts. 


(Continued on page 6) 

Juniors dominate campus Judicial Board 
The names of this year's mem­bers of the twelve man campus judicial board were released Tuesday by Father James Riehle, C.S.C., Dean of Stu­dents. 
The members of the board are: seniors Bruce Bernier and Alex Ponzio; juniors Bob Hall, Bill Me Devitt, Dave Loring, Mike Fitzgerald, Tom Cullen, and Kelly Flynn; sophomores Robert Fulton and Brock Bur­roughs; and freshmen Guy Ran­dles and Greg Smith. 
The board this year will have two functions: it is to act as an Appeals Board in cases where the decision of the hall judicial boards are questioned; it also is to try all offenses against Univer­sity regulations. 

Cases tried by the campus board will not be trials per se. The board's aim is to reach a just solution after attaining an over­view of the problem, rather than to dole out punishment through a strict enforcement' of the rules. The task of the board members, according to Richard llrda, Judicial Coordinator, is to realize the problems of student life, to be sensitive to these problems, and to respond appro­priately. 
Three non-voting faculty members, a lawyer, and a psychologist are to serve as ad­visors to the bo<1rd. Five stu­dents, one fawlty member, the psychologist, and the lawyer will be present at each hearing. The student members present will be chosen accordmg to a rotation schedule to be set up by the Dean of Students. Thus, it will be impossible to hand-pick a board for any particular case. 
The corrective powers of the judicial board include the dis­pensation of all the punitive measures in the Student Manual, including expulsion. In addition to direct punishment, the board may refer the offender to coun­seling or other rehabilitory ser­vices. 
llrda pointed out that the problems of a college campus differ from those of the cities. Thus, a different type of judicial system is necessary. The campus judicial board, according to llrda, is such a system of "frater­nal correction." 
Student Assembly discusses future SMC pions 
The Student Assembly dis­and the Hall Councils. Regarding cussed the role of St. Mary's the <~ccomplishments of the As­Student Government at their sembly so far this year, members 
meeting last night. Several of the of the Assembly felt that though
Freshmen: 
members said that they would many of the results are yet to be like to achieve more correlation seen, the Assembly has initiated As you may already know from reading the articles posted in 
between the Student Assembly many worth while projects. your halls, Rick Hilton and John Fitzsimmons are promising neither 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
impossibilities, such as weekly orgies, nor decided eventualities, like 
~ IIOML'WARD BOUND? 

sophomore car 1niviledges. Instead, they are working more in the 
direction of establishing a "close contact" system of school 
government in order to put the power in your hands. You won't 


& BOSTON-""'~""""
' Wor!dw1dt1

have to follow the dictates of someone who gains office and then 
t NEW YORK-­
dependon

works only for himself. What the Freshman class needs and wants 
Hilton and Fitzsimmons will work hard for. Their form of 
& PITTSBURGH-­government will be a participatory democracy, in which your 
' LOS ANGELES-­

officers will serve to spearhead the issues that you, the freshmen, 
f SAN FRANCISCO-­

feel must be acted· upon. Whatever concerns you, be it sex, 
~~~~~ + 
· 

curriculum, facilities, priviledges, etc., concerns Hilton and 
t IF YOU WANT TO SI'UT
Fitzsimmons, "working with you, for yolj." Only through this continuing close alliance will our class be represented in the complete, effectiive manner necessary for success. 
f ~£:~Ly~ ~~~ ~!!a'! F!~~ 
' OVER THE CONTINENTAL UNITED STATES AT 40% ' OFF ON A STAND-BY BASIS-NOW AT N.D. TRAVEL Rick HI LTOI\1 for president 
John FITZSIM 


~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~
..... 
f 
I' 
& 
t ' 
t 
t 
f 
i 
' 

Student Body Presidnet Ann Marie Tracey reported that the Ac<1demic Affairs Council dis­cussed the possibility of students earning credit during the month-long semester break. She said that a program might be set up for future years through the Curriculum Committee if in fu­ture years the present academic calendar is continued. 
Miss Tracey also reported that the students now have a vote on the Teacher Education and Aca­demic Standing: Committee. 
Miss Tracey said that the Stu­dent Union is interested in cre­ating a new atmosphere in the SMC Coffeehouse. She said that some of the suggestions being considered are to set up a sup­plcmen tary library and having food sales there. 

saturday, nov. 21 in the ace 
8:30pm 

tickets $5, $4, $2 
on sale at student 
union ticket office 
and dining halls 
ticket sales start tuesday
also appearing: presented bY student ullion social commission & ace Melting Pot 
Kathy Murphy, a member of the Assembly, gave a report on the Sex Education program. She said that a brief qut:stionnaire be distributed to members of the ND-SMC community regarding their background in sex educa­tion sometime after Thanks­giving. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and st_ Mary's College. Subscriptions may 
be purchased for $8 from The Ob­server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Wednesday, November 18, 1970 THE OBSERVER. Page 3 
Counseling Center cites 

faculty as ICey to success 
By Greg Rowinski 
"The faculty are the key peo­ple," according to Mr. Sheridan 
P. McCabe, director of the Coun­seling Center, in referring stu­dents to the center. Mr. McCabe directed his remarks to the Faculty Senate at last night's meeting at the Center fur Con­tinuing Education. 
McCabe felt that this role of the faculty has not been used enough in the past. He suggested that the majority of those who visit the center are "self­referred," followed by those dean-referred and the faculty referrals. He stated that the latter two were reversed at most universities. Professor Edward Manier suggested that the cause of this was the faculty's lack of understanding of the work of the center. 
Approximately 300-400 stu­dents visit the center annually, estimated McCabe. He said that every student needs help in that he requires an open atmosphere in which to live, though "few classify themselves as guys who need help." 
McCabe voiced the opinion that the lack of co-education is less of a problem than an in­ability of many students to talk to girls without the "forced at­mosphere or commitment of a date." 
The usual problem which the student brings to the center is the choice of a major. The dis­cussion, commented McCabe, will usually lead into some underlying problem the student is troubled by. 
McCabe outlined the work of the center, emphasizing its re­search, an attempt to meet the problems of tomorrow, like "de­humanization in the large univer­sity." The tests which the center offer are chiefly P-ffective, he contended, in givi!l.g the student a chance to make a "self­inventory", providing starting ground for his discussion with 
CommiHee soon to choose Academic Council members 
one of the counselors. 
The free counselling available in Room 31 3 of the Administra­tion Building is provided by 4 doctors of Counselling Psycholo­gy and 7 graduate assistants. 
Other activities of the center, according to McCabe, besides testing and individual and group counselling, include the Out­reach program, which takes the center to the students, the Sophomore Testing Program, and the "branch offices" in Alumni and Farley Halls. Also, a paraprofessional training pro­gram, for such projects as Neigh­borhood Self Help, is now in the planning stage. 
After McCabe's presentation, the Secretary of the Senate, Fr. Edward Banas, presented a sum­mary of the Senate's resolutions since 1968. Discussion opened over certain resolutions which seemed to have "disappeared" at the Administration level. The power of the Senate was de­bated, with views ranging from a 


Sheridan McCabe addresses the Faculty Senate 
wish to gain "some power" to a Committeemen. favorable opinion of the ulti-Professor William D'Antonio mate disposition of the resolves. made the final suggestion that 
Professor Manier, is his report the executive board re-examine as Chairman of the Administra-the priorities of resolutions that tion Committee, stated that al-have not been directly acted though Senate-proposed ROTC upon. Professor Manier revised modifications were in a stage this by suggesting that the reso­"too early to comment on", lutions be sent back to their certain changes have been made respective committees to deter­and the commanders appeared mine the priorities and any pus­willing to present the facts to sible vote changes. 
~~~==~~~~~~~~==~~~~~~~ 
The Nominating Committee selecting the student represen­tatives for the Academic Council will probab;y being work soon and may complete the selections before Thanksgiving, according to Bill Wilka, Academic Affairs 

Bill Wilka The five undergraduate repre­sentatives are undergoing a two­part selection process deter­mined by the Academic Council. Student groups within the col­leges of Arts and Letters and Business have completed prelimi­nary interviews. The College of Science and Engineering is ex­pected to finish soon. 
Each undergraduate college will recommend three candidates to the student review board which consists of SBP Dave 
Wilka, an ex-officio member of the Academic Council, dis­cussed the reasons that the coun­cil did nut have the student representative elected to office. He noted it would be "virtually impossible" to provide the stu­dent body with the information about each candidate now being gathered in the personal inter­views. Wilka thought that a "po­litical contest was not justified" since the Academic Council re­quires a "different sort of per­son" than a campus politician. 
Wilka also stressed the "ac­tive" role that the Academic Council plays in the community. He noted that the council had made "important" decisions re­garding the Strike, the Princeton Plan vote, the new marking system, the pass-fail option and other areas of student concern. 
He thought that the council was a "prestigious body" and that the selection process should provide "competent, articulate students" to serve. 
The Academic Council meets again on December 10. Wilka emphasized the importance of completing the selection by that meeting. He also noted that two graduate representatives have yet to be selected. 
~···~············ 
:  Attention  :  
*  *  
:  Observer  :  
: :  Peop•e Practice for the  :* up-*  

Krashna and a representative *coming Observer-WSND : from each of the four collegs. :game will be today, be-* Two members of the present * Academic Council will sit on the :hind Stepan Center, at * selection committee in a non-*4:00. * 
*
voting capacity. * 
----------~~~~~~ 
.


Hair Styling 
for ND men the Contine!Jtal Way 
Razor Cutting & · Style1 European Layer Shaping for Long Hair 
Have Long Hair & Let Miss Treva & The Baron Be Well Groomed Serve & Pamper You 
306 S'lerland Bldg. South Bend, Ind. Student Rates 234-0811 B A t. 
,. ...... -~.., ..• #: ••,_ .. .. ·~ ......,. , ... •:C"oC" .. ,. '~ 

*Student Billing Card 
With this card, a dorm resi­
dent may make long distance calls 
with the privacy of the dorm room 
phone and get an individual bill 
once a month. 
And even take advantage of 
Direct Distance Dialing . . . the 
faster, easier way to call long 
distance. 
Your Student Billing Card 
is waiting (if you haven't already 
picked it up) at the Indiana Bell 
Business Office. Just ask. 
@Indiana Bell 
........... •¢<C'<'..,.,...... ••.,..c-.,......,_ .. ,. •.. . __..>#.#:• .......,. ....,. ..... •<J>· ........,. ,. •,. ..,. .. •.. .. • ~ .. ..... 
___P_a~~-4-----------------------------~~~ ()~~'--------------------W~ed~n=es=d=a~y,~N~o~ve~m~b~e~r~1R~~1Q~-7~0~ 




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GLEN S. CORSO, Editor-in-Chief JOHN E. KNORR, Executive Editor 
BRUCE RIECK, Business Manager 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Budget Good 
There has been much painful waddling. There has been sad posturing on the part of some members of the administration, on the part of some Senators, and on the part of some greedy organizations. But the budget has finally come out of the committee of the whole. And it is a good budget. 
The Senate, cognizant of the fact that money must go back to the halls, was most wise, and most providant, in cutting the Union's budget by two thousand dollars and concurrently raising the HPC's budget by twenty-five hundred dollars. We can only hope that 'the HPC will use the money, not to stage an elaborate An Tostal, but to help each hall as it attempts to make itself a pleasant place in which to stop and stay. 
The senate bailed Student Governmetn out of a lot of trouble when it decided to usurp what was previously the Student Union Academic Commission's privilege to pass judgement over the speaker policy. Whereas previously Academic Commission and the Academic Commission alone decided who would receive student monies to come on campus, now the Senate must approve any speaker costing over three hundred dollars. Thus, the responsibility of providing a balanced speaker's policy will rest with an 
elected Senate which is itself far more politically balanced than the appointed, inbred Academic Commission. 
There have been some illogical decisions -such as granting the Afro-American and Mexican-American society more money than their budget indicated they had use for, but by and large the decisions were good. 
The Senate now comes out of the committee of the whole and votes, the budget for a final time, up or down. This publication hopes they vote it up. And this publication hopes that future budgets are as full of canny good sense as the one being proposed now. 
Kezele for SLC 
The Observer reluctancly and with no particular joy, endorses Floyd Kezele for the recently vacated tower's SLC position. 
Mr. Kezele is a limited candidate, and he lacks ooth dynamism and originality. Nonetheless, he has a fairly acute grasp ;)[the nature of the SLC and of the issues which confront it. In a time when it is important that relationships between student members of the body and administration and faculty representatives be as vital as is humanly possible, Kezele would fill the acute gaps between factions and serve as a moderating influence on racous extremes. 
In truth, there are only two real issues confronting the SLC now. One is coeducation, and the path to that end has already been charted. The other is Sophomore cars, and its fate will be determined in the coming weeks. 
It is here where Mr. Kezele indicates his most apparent superiority. Whereas his. opponent indicated that he would push for coeducation dorms by 1972-3, and blithely asserted that he would see no trouble getting such action through the Board of Trustees, Kezele showed a far firmer grasp of reality by suggesting tht an all-girl dorm on the campus was in the near future if the SLC acted responsibly. 
Whereas Mr. Kezele's opponent was vague and indecisive on the question of Sophomore cars, finally agreeing that all students with cars should have to pay a registration fee of $50~$1 00 per year, even though Sophomores can park cars near the campus for that amount now, Mr. Kezele was ready to predict that the bill presently before the SLC would fail, explain why it would fail, and suggest an alternative -the Senate-passed Mateja--Giuffrida bill of last year. 
There have been, and could be, better candidates than Floyd Kezele. However, there are none in this election. Therefore the ObserFer suggests that tower residents cast their votes in this SLC election for Floyd Kezele. 
Armando Alonzo=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=========::::I 
!!!! A Response !!!! 
« ~
.. .·.· 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:=:=:~~~=~=~=~:::::~: 
The recent Observer editorial, Deal for the Students, has 
apparently raised the ire of thes Mexican -American sodety. In an effort to give the cards a closer lwr the Observer here pub­lishes this response, written by Armando Alonzo, chaim7lm of the Mexican -American Society (MHCJIA). 
The editorial, Deal for the Students, which was carried by The Observer on November 13, 1970, has presented an inaccurate and unobjective report of MECIIA, the Chicano (Mexican American) student organization. 
What are the facts concerning the increase of MECHA's budget? 
On October 15, 1970, MECHA appeared -before the Finance Committee of Student Government with its program and budget. At this time, the Finance Committee believed that the estimated costs of postage and printing had been conservatively estimated in view of the fact that the outlined program merited additional support. MECHA concurred with the Finance Committee, and, consequently, MECHA agreed to ask for an increase in the budget from $1325 to $15 00. ln no way can the editorialist claim that MECHA had "totally underestimated" its costs. 
Futhermore, the editorial's conclusion that "we suggest that organizations incapable of doing minimal wc.rk such as estimating their costs and developing their budgets would be hardly able to" run good programs is illogical, as far as MECI-IA is concerned, for his premise that we are not able to draw up sound budgets is inaccuarate. Moreover, the inferences which may be gotten from this editorial quote are ugly and malicious. M ECHA condemns the implication that MECHA might not be able to run a good program. We wonder how an editorialist can present such implications when he has not interviewed the members of MECHA or even read MECHA's proposal. 
The editorialist also claims that MECHA did not seek support for an increase in the budget because MECHA members were not present at the voting session, a session which MECHA was not asked to appear at by the Student Government. On the other hand, MHCHA did officially appear before the Senate to make its presentation long before the voting session. Yet the writer did not mention this. 
MECHA makes its positi"on clear so that the student body may be knowledgeable of the facts for MECHA wants support for its program. 
Therefore, MECHA calls upon the editorialist to publicly make his position lucid and accurate on MECHA and its activities. 
*** 

Ann-Therese Darin:~,;======:=======:============================================ 


1 A Start ~~~~ 
:::::::~:=:~:~:~:=:=:~::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::~:=~:::;:;:~:;:::::~:::;:=:=:~:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:~::::::::::::::::::::"::":· 
Although~ "I want a girl just like the girl that goes to coed schools" has been adapted lately as the Notre Dame Students' motto, it is questionable whether immediate coeducation of the two schools is the most prudent action at this time. 
To announce coeducation this late in the year seems unlikely since both of the school's admissions offices are almost finished accepting applicants for next year's freshmen classes. Another factor impeding coeducation in September 1971 is the time element. For both schools' Board of Trustees, administrations, faculty, student and alumni (ae) representatives to agree to a plan may take quite some time. These snags, however, should not lead to another year of the present status quo. Perhaps, the solution for the time-being may be one-year experimental co-exchange residence plan. Some of the St. Mary's stuaems would live al Notre Dame, while some of the Notre Dame students would Jive at St. Mary's. Two halls which would seem by their physi;.:al plants to be ideal for such an arrangement are the two wings of Regina at St Mary's ( 300 students) and Keenan-Stanford at Notre Dame. 
To begin the program with a limited number may be most advisable. The co-exchange plan began this way when most of the problems were ironed out with the small group, the program was opened for everyone. This plan would move us one step closer to coeducation, while not causing too many problems for next year. 
Another alternate plan may be the Holy Cross Hall experiment. In this plan presently being discussed at both campuses. Holy Cross (N.D.) would serve as a dormitory and classroom building for a limited number of Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. 
At first, the promoters of the plan wanted to have :;elected majors have all their classes there. Then is was decided that maybe only taking a few classes would be a better arrangement. 
It seems unlikely that Notre Dame or St Mary's will be able to adapt to the much-needed co-education program by next fall. After the Mayhew-Parks report is presented to the administration, it must subsequently be acted upon by the Board of Trustees of both schools. However, developing an experimental coeducation plan would make things a lot easier when the two schools decide to go co-ed. 
~----·· ______,
............_____ 
Night Editresses: Ann Conway

Managing Editor: Bill Carter 
Mary Chris MorrisCJ
Editorial Page Editor: T.C. Treanor 
Layout: Dan Kopenhaver

News Editor: Ed Ellis 
Headlines: Pat Connelly, Jirn Bullock

Features Editor: Dave Lammers 
ControlleroftheNight: Rick Smith

Sports Editor: Terry Shields 
Layout Design: Joe Cas~ini

'-----------··.......·--------' 

THJ!. OBSERVER Page
--··------------------------=---5 

Dove Lammers 
The bowels of America.. life in a factory 
Every once in a while I think back to the summer that I worked for General Motors, and I recall the men that worhd there and still work there, and I imagine the millions of men and women in Japan, Russia, the United States, China, France, England, and the other mass production societies of the modern world. 
For the person who has not worked on an assembly line, it is difficult to be concerned about the quality of a worker's life when he is not physically suffering. War, hunger, and poverty are more dramatic issues that rouse the student's hackles. The unfounded belief that technology will someday make the unskilled worker obsolete is accepted, and it seems to us that the union protects the interests of the workers. 
While the U.A.W. strives for earlier retirement, longer vacations, and higher pay, it is important to consider what Walter Reuther said before his death, "The prospect of tightening up bolts every two minutes for eight hours for thirty years doesn't lift the human spirit." A more blunt and honest statement, believe, is that mass production work destroys the human spirit. The technique of Henry Ford was that work becomes more efficient when the necessity for human thought or creativity is removed, and of course he was right. The steady drip, drip, drip of monotony upon the vitality of the 
working man is theoretically compensated for in the auto industry by high wages, job security, and the prospect of an early retirement. More pay does not lessen the harmful effects of continual and daily boredom, though it may induce the worker to stay at the job longer and with fewer complaints. 
Yet the higher wages have not really 

staved off discontent, as absenteeism 
averages 5% among GM employees (I 0% 
on Mondays and Fridays), the quit rate at 
Ford is 25.2% a year, and alcohol and 
drug use in factories increases every year. 
Another trick is sabotage. The men on 
the line I worked on would drop screws 
down into the chain of the line, chuckling 
as the bald-headed foreman would race 
up, shouting, "God damn it, who's got 
me down!" In Detroit, men put stones, 
tools, and parts inside of a bumper, 
causing a permanently non-fixable rattle_ 
But for every man that quits or dies or 
retires or is fired, there are twenty 
applicants eager to gain the financial 
security that the large factory offers. And 
so many people say, "Factory work is all 
that these men know how to do," which 
is to say that any mass-production society 
grows by subhuman work, and must 
make sure that men will become less than 
men for a price, which by the way raises 
some questions about the real goals of 
American education. 
Other people ask, "How are you going 
to get cars and refrigerators for 200 
million people without the assembly 
lines?" This line subtly points out that in 
the industrial societies, almost 
unconsciously, we value cars and stereos 
above the spirit of that nation. And the 
whole problem of planned obsolescence 
and the constant changing of styles, with 
the societal pressure to have the newest 
thing on the market, is one cause of the 
mass production mania. (Though I 
remember my father explaining to me 
why planned obsolescence in the auto 
industry was necessary for a healthy 
economy.) (And don't forget, folks, that 
with all this PROGRESS even the African 
tribesman will soon be able to drive to 
the automobile factory in his mass-produced car.) Many of the young men on the line are saddled by a young and expensive family, 




Impressions 
The two boys were given an apartment above the Giant Dollar Store. These living My first impre~sions of West Virginia 

accomodations worked out ideally. were provided by the hills in and around 
By the second week we had purchasedCharleston, as my plane broke through the clouds and descended in the direction of the Charleston airport. As these beauti­ful hills seemed to rise to meet the plane, the idea of spending seven weeks in the "mountain state" finally became a reali­ty. 

From our meeting place at the airport, we made our way down to Welch, a two hour drive south of Charleston, where we were to make our "home" for seven weeks. We immediately met "Mom" and "Pop" Baley, the Episcopal minister through whom we would work. Their dedication to and knowledge of the poeple in the area at once impressed and excited us, for their words held the promise of a wonderful summer. We wasted no time in making the 40 minute trip out to Avondale, the hollow were we would spend more of our time. Pop Baley was having a service there that night and was most anxious to have us get acquain­ted with as many people as we could. 
Avondale is a small worked-out logging camp of about 60 families, located in the heart of the coal region of Appalachia. A dirt road winds its way up the "holler" to a strip mine at its head. The houses are situated along either side of this road, some down in the valley along the Dry Fork of the Tug River, and others scat­tered up the mountainside. The warmth with which we were greeted that f.rst night eased my apprehensions and I knew Avondale, West Virginia, was going to be a place like no other. 
By the middle of the first week we were settled in Welch and taking stock of our new heighborhood. The two _girls lived with Reverend Lawton Posey, the Presbyterian minister of Welch, and his family, whose hospitality was wonderful. 
a '62 Falcon station wagon from a gener­ous man in Keystone, a town ten miles from Welch, and the home of Dave Pais, 
one of the project members. This luxury mobile served us well, for it was o~r mode of transportation to Avondale every dav. We spent our first two weeks in Avon­dale getting acquainted with as many families as we could. As strangers to the area, I think we all felt rather apprehen­sive about how to approach this situation., for we had little or no idea of the impr'ession we would convey or the recep­tion we would receive. However, our questions were seen answered, and friend­ly and open receptionwere given made us feel like we were being welcomed home. This friendliness and hospitality were two of the many impressions the people of this mountain area left me with. Without their guidance and willingness to assist us, this project would never have gotten off the ground. Once we had made ou:· presence known by daily trips up the "holler", we organized a squar~ dance in the church basement with the help of the Whitiker and Muncy families. Flat footin', Square dancing, and plenty of real toe-tappin' fiddling music made for the most enjoy­able evening I had had in a long time. A large crowd gathered that night, and we knew thi~ wouldn't be the last t;me we would enjoy a Saturday night get-toge­ther. Five more such evenings followed during the summer. The idea that these people really know how to have fun struck me immediately, for it was quite obvious how the company of their neigh­bors, and tnc "down.home" music were what meant so much to them. An aprre­ciation of the simple plreasur•:s i;1 life 

or dream •of saving enough money to go 
back to school, or want money for a 
down payment on a home. But many of 
the men on the line are truly the 
prisoners of a consumptive society, their 
minds constantly set on a new souped up 
car (General Motors givith, and General 
Motors taketh away) or the stereo that 
Hugh Hefner promises will make the big 
difference in your sex life. 
Among men on the assembly line workers, there are men that have been on the job long enough to be spiritually drained, men that consider themselves prisoners of financial circumstances, and men driven to their own depersonalization by the insatiable hope that "life will be wonderful when I can buy my GTO" (but it is the anticipation of the GTO that counts, the Christmas eve fantasizing about what it will be like when. .. ) 
To live for the present would be absurd for the mass production line worker; he must live for the next break period, lunch, the final bell, the next Sunday (and the Sunday existential vaccuum 1 or for the two week vacation in Canada or for retirement. ' 
The erosion of the human ability to create objects of beauty, value, and genuine utility does not only deaden the men that are deprived of meaningful and necessary work. The quietly growing cancer of deadening overconsumption and meaningless work is everywhere: in the falccid popular mass culture of Harold Robbings "literature," and in the educational system that must socialize children to believe in the myth of "Progress through Technology." 
Paul Erlich, the Stanford biologist, mentions that the next forty million Americans will pollute the earth as much as two billion Indonesians, at our relative rates of consumption. (Technological man's spirit and soil die a common 


of West 
absorbed us all. 

As the days passed by, I began to notice how time began to mean so tittle. After years of an environment where one lived by the clock, the adjustment to the slower pace of the mountains was diffi­cult at first. However, after the realizat­ion that these people really do enjoy life, despite their lack of education, indoor plumbing, and other ingredients of the "affluent society": I knew they possessed something far more valuable. 
Our days were spent in clearing the land adjacent to the church for a play­ground area, conducting art classes twice a week, joining the Avondale Baseball team, visiting, and generally enjoying the mountain scenery and life. The last two weeks we erected the playground, after obtaining equipment from an abandoned school. The McDowell County Board of Education donated a slide, see-saws, and swing set. With the generous help and death.) And in the race for power, the bogey of the GNP must constantly rise or · the stock market crumbles, so that the 
population-even with a stable birth rate-must build, buy, consume, and pollute at a higher rate per person. Which means 1) more created desires through advertising so we buy more of what we do not need; 2) more machines and factories to build the things we do not need 3) an even less individualistic, more mass produced, citizen-consumer; and 4) more and more irreparable pollution to the land and waters and sky. 
I am sorry. I have raged at length. This is not objective, value-less journalism. Some will say that I have romanticized the concept of work, that I have ignored the good effects of mass production, that I have painted an overly bleak picture of the American factory worker. And after all, I, like everyone else in the society, benefit and am affected by the very prosperity that I have condemned so self-righteously. 
To conclude: the social diseases of the world, such as poverty, war, the suppression of liberties, all receive the condemnation of students and humanitarians everywhere, while the basic problem of the need of human spirit for meaningful work goes largely unnoticed. We go, in T.S. Elliot's word's "round and round the prickly pear"--hollow men. The evil of society goes unnoticed, cloaked in virtue. 
If we are, as individuals and as a "new" generation, to confront the malady of the technocratic age, if we are to be truly free in mind, in body, and in spirit, then we should quickly recognize that the ever growing material pie contains fruits pleasurable but poisonous. 
The food for the modern sickness is bought at a terrible human price. 
Virginia 
co-operation of the guys in A von dale we managed to dig up · these places and transplant them there. 
I could go into great depth and detail about the people we met and the lives they lead. I will only say how much we appreciated their openness, generosity 
and just being who they are. It is some· times hard for me to visualize them now ­what they are doing, whether they ever talk about us "young-un", and what our seven weeks might have meant to them. Out country is changing rapidly, yet change comes slowly to the mountains. Evaluating both sides of the coin, it seems progress has taken the ability to see the simple, matter-of-fact joys and sorrows of life, from us. The individual members of this project took much with them when 
they left West Virginia. How mucn we might have left there we will never know, for the opportunity of personal exchange of this sort cannot be measured. 

I 
I 

TilE OBSERVER.
Page 6 

Wednesday, November 18, 1970 
PHILLY FOR 



Tt'ANTED:a 
Disciplinary procedures outlined 
Typing to do in my home. 
THANKSGIVING'! 
Reasonable rates ­
284-4041 or 
272-5637 
234-8234
'--------­


WITH MAX SHULMAN 
(BJJ the author of Rally Round lht Flag, Bous ... Dobie Gillis •.. dr.) 
Money: The Story of Higher Education 
Not long ago it was no big problem for a college to raise money. The president simply went out and put the mooch on some fat alumnus. But that won't work today. Most alumni, shaky about what's hap­pening on American campuses, are sewing up their pockets. And even those few who can still be snowed are driving hard bargains. Not long ago, for instance, ~Walter "Boola" McMeekin, Yale '07, got a new gymnasium named after him and all he gave was three dollars and forty cents. 
Well sir, what's a college to do? If they try to raise tuition just once more, the remaining buildings will surely be levelled. By the parents, I mean. Nor can colleges cut operating costs any further be­cause they long ago eliminated all the frills like, for example, heating the dormitories. So where will they find the money they so desperately need? 
Well sir, if yours happens to be a college where beer is sold in the student union, you've got it licked. All you have to do is put in a plentiful supply of Miller High Life and stand back. You'll see business boom beyond your most hopeful dreams because every undergrad in the country is positively bananas about Miller High Life! And why wouldn't he be? Is any other beer so tasty? So zesty? So trusty? So gutsy? So feisty? So feasty? So yeasty? So maltsy? So hopsy? 
No, dear friends, Miller stands alone, light-years above the others. And the others will never equal it, for they will never Jearn Miller's marvelous brewing formula, a jealously guarded secret for more than 115 years. In fact, the formula today is known to only one man on earth-Miller's chief brewmaster-who will never, never talk because he is not only a deaf-mute, he is also a Transylvanian who, as you know, can turn into a bat if he is ever captured. 
But I digress. Supposing you don't sell beer in the union, where then can you raise the money? Well sir, here's what they did at the Idaho State College of Belles Lettres and Spot Welding. 
What they did was add a six-dollar cover charge to each meal in the student cafeteria. Naturally they had to justify the charge, so they started doing floor shows during meals. Believe me, folks, if you're ever in the neighborhood, be sure to drop in. It's worth every penny. 
The show opens with Professor Norman Glebe, the ever-popular head of the sociology and weather-stripping department, doing several chucklesome stunts and imitations. First he sings Trees as it might be done by Jose Feliciano, Georges Pompidou, and Woody Woodpecker. Next he sings School Days as it might be done by the Lennon Sisters, the Mayo Brothers and Mark Rudd. For his last number he does that old reliable, can't-miss, sure-fire crowd pleaser: he wrestles a naked bison. 
A tough act to follow, right? But wait. After him comes Professor Nirvana Sigafoos, the ever-popular head of the Finnish and other gut­tural languages department, whose specialty is swallowing. She starts commonplacely enough by swallowing a sword, and at this point the audience always yawns and says, "Ho-hum. Another sword swallower." But she soon disabuses them of that notion, you may be sure! Next she swallows two Ph.D. theses and a Buick. But wait. She finishes by in­gesting the entire buildings and grounds department! Well sir, all I can say is if Ed Sullivan ever catches this act, there'll be a bright new star in the Broadway firmament! 
After Professor Sigafoos's act the audience is naturally half-dead from applauding, so the finale is a welcomely quiet act. Three spores come out and float for twenty minutes. Then, spent but happy, the student body retire to their pallets and sleep the clock around. 
And so to those of you who despair of solving the fiscal problems of our colleges, I say fie! Just remember one thing: America did not become the world's foremost producer of wing nuts and nylon pie­filling by running away from a fight! 
* * * 
If wing nuts and nylon pie-filling don't grab you, how about trying Miller High Life, the Champagne of Beers and the sponsor of this column? Miller is available in cans, bottles, kegs .•. and delicious everyway. 
(Continued from page 2) 

E. The Dean of Students may appeal the decision of the University Board to the Appeals Board only on one or more of the following grounds; misintrepretation of a rule or regulation by the judicial body, actual prejudice on the part of the judicial body, or a decision by a hearing body totally unsupported by the facts presented and certified as such by at least one member of the hearing body. 
F. The Board of Traffic Appeals shall consist of two students appoint­ed by the Student Senate and one member of the faculty appointed by the Faculty Senate. All members shall have alternates. This body shall consider student appeals of alleged violations of the Traffic Rules. All decisions of this Board are final. 
G. The Joint Traffic Appeals Board shall consist of two Notre Dame and two St. Mary's students. The Notre Dame students will be selected by the student government judicial coordinator and the Dean of S.tudents. 
The Joint Traffic Appeals Board shall have ,the power to consider 
Detroit Cfub hanksaivin& Bu 
Signups -'.'Vednesday and T:mrsday Night ­7-8 P.M. -Student Insur­ance Office (Basement LaFortune) 
or call 8132 at ND and 4618 at SMC for reserJJa­tions -$10 round trip ­Ever one welcome 

James Fossett 
President 
:J
' 
"Class office doesn't nave to be .i 
joke, It can mean something If you want It to." 
Roderick Braye 
VIce-President 
St. Mary's Soph Class sponsors Party -Stan­ford Keenan Basement. 
Friday, Nov. 20 -Y-1 am ­
The Symbol -$.50 cover­


those cases involving St. Mary's stu-rights of students and complete infor­dents who have allegedly violated mation on all procedures. Notre Dame Traffic ordinances and 3. The right to be presumed inno­those cases involving Notre Dame cent until proven guilty. 
students who have allegedly violated 4. Notification of particular st: Mary's traffic ordinances. charges in sufficient time for prepara­
~or an appeal to be upheld, three tion of defense against said charges. members of the court must vote to The time will be determined by the sustain it. All decisions of the board Chairman of the Trial Board. are final. 5. Assistance in obtaining the testi­
111. A. The Dean of Students as many of witnesses necessary to the disciplinary officer of the Univer;ity, defense and relative to the evidence is responsible for the observance of pertaining to the trial. these procedures. 6. Trial before an impartial body 
B. He shall be sent records and where any member may be chal­reports of all disciplinary actions, lenged and replaced for good and except for cases within halls where defensible reasons. the rector has the discretion to retain 7. Consultation with the Chairman 
the records.A_II disciplinary records of the Trial Board or the appointed are confrde~tral, _unless the student.-faculty legal advisor regarding trial under consrderatron chooses other-procedures and admissibility of evi­
w.ise. . dence 
-.. urscrprrnary cases consrdered · within the hall may eventuate in 8. Free choice of undergraduate expulsion from the hall or even from student counsel. campus residence. ,Disciplinary 9. Trial by the Dean of Students if 
cases considered on higher levels may the student so desires. eyentuate in expulsion from the Uni-10 The right to plead either inno­versity. cent or guilty and to testify in ones 
D. In emergencies where the Dean own behalf. of Students judges tliere to be immi-11. The right to call witnesses and nent danger of serious harm to per-present evidence in one's own behalf. sons or to property, or serious ob-12. Access to the names of one's struction of University life, he may accusers and/or witnesses and the summarily suspend and even expel right to confront them openly at the students. These measures shall be trial, except in extraordinary circum­provisional, until the Appeals Board stances as provided in the Judicial 
Code.

has considered a case without pre­13. The right to appeal a verdict tosumption of guilt and rendered a a higher body in the event of newdecision. 
evidence or prejudicial error havingE. All decisions by Boards shall be been demonstrated. 
by majority vote. 

14. To be informed of the ration­Each student shall be made aware 
ale for any imposed punishment a­of his rights, and all possible effort~ 
long with a written opinion explain­will be made to safeguard these rights 
ing the trial board decion. which shall include the following: 
15. The right to a closed hearing if 
1. A clear statement of all types of 
the defendant so requests.actions or behavior that shall be 
16. The right to secrecy in all considered a violation of University matters related to the judicial po ocess 
rules, regultations or good order in unless waived in writing or actions by
the residence halls. 
the accused. 

2. A published statement of the 

Court favors Panther reporter 
SAN FRANCISCO (VPJ)-A federal court of appeals yester­day ruled that New York Times reporter Earl Caldwell cannot be forced to testify before a grand jury investigating the Black Pan­thers. 
The court dismissed a con­tempt citation issued against Caldwell by a lower court for his refusal to go before a federal grand jury probing the Panthers. 
However the court carefully restricted its ruling to the case of Caldwell, a 23 year old black newsman who said that even an 
TYPING 
Any material, any length, charts and diagrams, $.50/page. Will pick up and deliver. CaU Connie Paden 289-0177 after 4 p.m . 
the ND-SMC THEATRE presents an IRISH entertainment 
TH£ 


by BRENDAN


HOSTAGE BEHAN 
on DECEMBER 4, 5, 10, 11,12 at 8:30 and DECEMBER 6 at 2:30 in ~IIJashin ton Hall. Tickets $1.50 Info: 284-4176 

appearance before a secret ses­sion would cut off his confiden­tial sources among the Panthers. 
"It is not every news source that is as sensitive as the Black Panther Party" about coverage of its affairs, the court said. 
"The secrecy that surrounds grand jury testimony necessarily introduces uncertainty in the minds of those who fear a be­trayal of their confidences," the ruling continued. 
The court noted that Caldwell had already said he could give no testimony about the Panthers that was not confidential except what he ahd already written in his news reports. 
"Since the cost to the public of excusing his attendance is so slight, it may be said that there is here no public interest of real substance," the ruling said. 
"In light of these considera­
tions  we  hold  that where it has  
been  shown  that  the· public's  
First  Amendment  fight  to  be  

informed would be jeopardized by requiring a journalist te sub­mit to secret grand jury inter­rogation, the government must respond by demonstrating a compelling need for the witness' presence" is he is to be forced to appear. 
Toniaht 
CAC'S Cinema '71 
Presents Jean Cocteau's "Blood of a Poet" and 

Salvidor !Jali's "Un Chien Andalou" 
(a pioneer in underground films) 
7:00 & 9:00 Engineering A ud. Admission $1.00 CAF Patrons Free 

CCQQCCCCCCOCCCQCOQOCO~ 
Wednesday, November 18, 1970 THE 0~ Page 7 
Theismann-a man who makes it go 

by Terry Shields start that Theismann had some­think the team has more confi­Observer Sports Editor thing on the ball, it took others dence in me too. Being a senior, "I think that it denotes the all a little longer to see this. When I also feel like more of a leader. around best college football Joe entered Valdiserri's office This. whole team has made me 
for the first time his name was better."
player in the nation. It's the pronounced Theeze-man and he team
highest honor that a collegiate This that Joe speaks player can receive. Why, even was unattached (as far as girls about is now involved in a bitter go). After he left the Office his
considereation for this award is a struggle between four other great honor. Still, you have to name was Thighs-man and he great ball clubs and each things look at the whole matter ob­that their team ranks No. I. Joe
had this attractive blonde (Shari Browne) as a, well shall we say,
jectively. Any success that an stresses the importance of the 
friend. (That friend will become
individual attains is really credit polls. "Since Notre Dame isn't in 
Mrs. Joe Thighs-man on Dec. 5.)
for the whole team. I don't feel a conference the only thing that 
The pronunciation also played a
any added pressure on me be­we can really do to prove our 
later role in Joe's life. It's easy
cause of the award. All I'm team's value is to finish as high 
to rcmeher a catchy little phrase 
worried about it playing a good as possible in the National rank­
like "Theismann for Heisman."
game and helping the team win." ings. The polls aren't all that 
Last season Theismann was

Joe Theismann, a young man important right now but at the 
referred to as "a good college
who may very well own every end of the season I'd like to see 
quarterback" by most writers
record possible for a quarterback us up there." 
and coaches. Very few people
to gain at Notre Dame says this Mentioned before was the fact 
gave him a chance of ever attain­
about the trophy that sounds so that Theismann will hold num­
ing the status of All-American,
great with the mention of his erous records at N D before fi­mane, the Heisman Trophy. not to mention a Heisman candi­nishing his career. These records date. Joe had other ideas. Every­
It wouldn't be fair or true to are impressive to many people 
one has remarked about the dif­
say that the Heisman means no­but how much weight does thing to Joe, but it would be ference between Joe Theismann Theismann give them? "None, truthful to say that at the mo­1969 and the '70 model. absolutely none. My biggest con­ment it is a secondary matter. Says the wiry senior from cern is throwing no intercep­Winning is the big thing for Mr. South River, New Jersey, "Con­tions. That's part of a perfect Theism ann. fidence in myself and confidence performance. As you can see I 
Although Notre Dame Sports in Tom Gatewood is probably have been far from perfect this Information Director Roger 0. the single-most important factor season. Maybe you could say Valdiserri could tell from th~ that has led to this change. I that they (records) are impor­
tant as a goal. I don't really care much about these records. I'm just lucky l.o play with such a great group of fellows. They give me some static about all the Coach Pagna is the same way. I don't think this team has put it publicity sometimes, but they're owe the most to these two men. 
all together yet. When we peak

The Irish Eye 
just kidding. Take Dan Novakov. Coach Parseghian is really more with both offense and defense in 
One day he wore one of those than a coach. He is a psycholo­one game, look out!" 
bring green Theismann for Heis­gist of sorts. He makes you want Theismann will have more
~==~::::;:;:;:;:;:;:::::;:;:::::::::;:::;:;:::::::;:;:;:::;:i:::::::;;i:::::::::;:::::;:::::; Rug Cuttin' Time man buttons. It broke every­to win. He is probably the most 
than an adequat1· opportunity to body up." learned and knowledgeable
1 remember when my high school coach would face a critical guide this team to peak. With 
Joe is probably the one man coach in the country."
decision and how he would always refer to the situation as "rug LSU and Southern Cal coming in 
on the team who comes into the Since the 6' 177 lb. signal
cuttin' time." Well, it's that time of year when the top teams in the successive weeks the Irish better 
most COfltact with head coach caller stressed how important
country must prove themselves to the pollsters, the fans and most put it together." The LSU game
Ara Parseghian. After four years the team was to him the inevi­
important to their own coaches. It is indeed "rug cuttin' time." is Theismann's last chance to 
Joe's view of the head mentor table question arose. How good
For Notre Dame's Fighting Irish the next two weeks will be impress the Heisman voters. The 
has never changed. "No, my is Notre Dame'! Without a se­
crucial and there are innumberable things that will be decided. First votes must be in by Saturday 
opmwn of coach has never cond's hesitation Theismann,
and foremost is the National Championship. However, there may be and the Heisman winner will be an exception made this year with both wire service polls waiting changed. If anything, ne views with a very serious and sincere known on Dec. 3rd. The next until ·ti'tt;r the post-season games to pick their champ. have been enhanced. He is a look (very unlike his usual few weeks will tell a lot more 
Not only the National Championship will be decided but also square man. He lays things on joking manner), stated, "We're about Joe Theismann and the some individual 110nors. Notable among these honors to NO fans is the line. He doesn't treat us just Number One. We're getting bet­team that he makes go. the Heisman Trop~y. It's no secret that Joe Theismann is a very as football players but as men. ter with each game. I really worthy candidate for this award. At present Joe ranks second in the nation in total offense with a per game average of 267.0 yards. The Ettie publicized Pat Sullivan of Auburn has first place under control with an average performance worth 280.2 yards. Jim Plunkett, the 




Texas tops coaches' poll
0ther chief candidate for tl1e Heisman (assuming Archie Manning's injury will keep l1im out), is in third place nationally with 262.0 These are the coaches that Alabama; Paul Dietzel, South Prothro, UCLA; John Ralston, yards per game. The Heisman votes must be in on Saturday, Nov. 21. comprise the 35 men board Carolina; Vince Dooly, Georgia; Stanford; Jim Sweeney, Wash­The winner will be made known on Dec. 3. which votes each week on the Charles Tate, Miami, Fla.; John­ington State. 
Other stats that are impressive in Joe's favor are his nation leading Nation's Top Ten football ny Vaught, Mississippi. ROCKIES: Eddie Crowder, yards per pass attempt average of 9.9 and his second leading 60% teams. There are five coaches MIDWEST: Alex Agase, Colorado; Lloyd Eaton, Wyo­completion percentage. Theismann is 17th overall in forward passing from seven sections of the coun­Northwestern; Duffy Daugherty, ming; Tom Hudspeth, Brigham on an average of 14.7 completions per game. try. Michigan State; Woody Hayes, Young; Ben Margin, Air Force; 
Theismann's battery mate Tom Gateweed has dropped to second EAST: Bob Blackman, Dart­Ohio State; Murrary Warmath, Chuck Mills, Utah St&te. in the receiving department. A guy named Mike Mikolayunas of mouth; Tom Cahill, Army; Rick Minnesota; Ara Parseghian, SOUTHWEST: Frank Broyles,Davidson is the leader with an average of 8.8 grabs per contest. Forzano, Navy; Ben Schwartz­Notre Dame. Arkansas; Hayden Fry, SMU; Gatewood has hauled in the Theismann bombs'at a 7.9 clip. "The 
walder, Syracuse; Joe Yukica, PACIFIC COAST: John Frank Kush, Arizona State; Dar­Swinging Gate" has caught 63 passes so far tl1is season, breaking Boston College. McKay, rell Royal Texas; Bill Yeoman,
Southern Cal; Jim 
Jack Snow's single season record of 60. He still needs 140 yards to MIDLANDS: Bob Devaney, Owens, Washington; TommY. Houston. overtake the Ram star for yardage in one season. Not only this, but Nebraska; Dan Devine, Missouri; also Tom, who is only a junior, needs but 284 yards to bust Jim Chuck Fairbanks, Oklahoma; Seymour's yardage mark for a career. That mark is 2,113 yards. Chuck "Pepper" Rodgers, Kan­
Frazier, Foster baffle 
All of these records mean little to the men who are setting them sas; Rod Rust, North Texas unless the Irish can finish this season with an unblemished record. State. 
DETROIT (UPI) ·-If Joe While most of the reporters
LSU will be a challenge as Georgia Tech proved t1.at Southern SOUTH: Paul "Bear" Bryant, Frazier successfully defends his grudgingly were willing to let the football can present a barrier for the Irish. 
heavyweight title on Wednesday subject of Clay slip away the
NEW YORK (UPI) -The United

Their defensive statistics are impressive to say the least. In total Press International top ranked college night against Bob Foster the mailman was persistent. Durhamdefense the Bayou Tigers rank tenth. In rushing defense they rank football teams with first place votes champion wants to fight Cassius finally shrugged and askedfirst, giving up a meager 46.0 yards per game. In scoring defense the 
in parentheses. Ninth week. Clay next. "Okay who do you want me to
Tigers are 5th giving up 7.8 points per game. 
Team ..... ·Points That might not come as any fight next'?" 
T'l.is presents the classic confrontation of the great defense versus 1. Texas (20) 8·0 318 great surprise but Yank Durham. "Clay" the letter carrier said. 
the great offense. The Irish offensive eleven still are first with a 2. Notre Dame (6) 8-0 290 Frazier's manager, finally made "If that's what you want"
540.1 clip. 3. Nebraska (6) 9-0·1 270 
it official Monday. Frazier had Durham answered "you gotThe Tigers have not permitted a touchdown by rushing in their 4. Ohio St. (1) 8·0 257 just finished the longest, hardest him."
5. Michigan (2) 9-0

last eleven games. In their last 20 games the Tigers have won 18, 243 training grind of his career -The manager even disclosed
6. Arkansas 8-1 132

including nine of ten last season and seven of eight this year. 
7. Louisiana St. 7·1 120 nearly 175 rounds of sparring his demands for the bout ­The Irish will go into this game without the services of co-<:aptain 
8. Air Force 9-1 91 over the past six weeks -and "split the money down the guard Larry DiNardo. This is a poor time to lose your most 
9. Tennessee 7-1 84 Durham sat answering questions middle and give us an 18 footvaluable blocker but the NO depth should provide an adequate 
10. Arizona St. 8-0 45 in the middle of a crowd of fans ring." Clay prefers to fight in 20 replacement, probably Jim Humbert or Denny DePremio. 11. Stanfvrd 8·2 19 and reporters. foot rings because he likes the DiNardo, an All-American in 1969, was one of 12 outstandi,1g 12. Mississippi 7·1 17 "What about Clay?" asked a room to move. 
college seniors honored with National Football Foundation graduate 13. Auburn 7·2 10 letter carrier standing at the edge Although the 26 year old
14. Tie Dartmouth 8-0

fellowships. DiNardo will be honored at the Foundation's 13 ;wnual 8 of the crowd. Frazier is a 5-l favorite to re-
Tie San Diego St. 9-0 8

Football Hall of Fame awards dinner Dec. 8 in New York. They will 16. Tie Alabama 64 5 "Look" Durham replied move the obstacle from his pathshare the spotlight along with eight Hall of Fame inductees that Tie Sou. Cal. 5·3·1 5 "we're here to fight Foster so the Philadelphian never trained include Notre Dame's Frank Leahy and Don Miller. 
18. Toledo 10·0 2 let's talk about him." •. harder for any fight. 

.----------­
Page 8 THE OBSERUER. Wednesday, November 18, 1970 
SY.!~.!".~ ~ ~~!:,d ~ (!:,~!: pn,!:i~t.,~~ '].,~l,.li~ ~,~E,!Y c;;#u7.egJ!.
h. . t bunkers the largest such ammu-vinccs to the (ommumsts m he withdrawn from Vietnam he-day hit the Ho Chi Minh Trail 
namcse troops pu:> mg m o . . . f d h. 
b d. . mtwn se1zure o the In oc 111a order to concentrate on protect-fore Christmas under President extensions into Cambodia for
northeastern Cam o 1a m a new . . . 
. h t d war, m1htary spokesman sa1d ing key provinces around Phnom Nix<,m 's Phase Five redeploy-the second consecutive day, U.S.
254
operatiOn ave cap ·ure . 
tons of C . t t"ll yesterday. Penh. ment program. spokesmen said. The huge jets
1 
ommum~ ar cry Officers directing the 6000 Command spokesmen sa,·d th" hav" fl<>Wn ov•'r 1.300 ml·s·sions
Elsehwere in Cambodia, Corn-~ ~ ' 
man sweep named "operation k d (' Jrd Battalion, 12th Infantry <>f. ag,·11·nst th" tra1·1 ,·n L.aos and its
rnunist troops attac e .am-' 
FRESHMEN: THE 

Nguyen Hue" after a Vietnamese bodian on Route 7 about 40 the 4th lnfa'ltry Division and extensions into Cambodia and 
SORGE, GORRELL 

national hero said they had miles northeast of Phnom l'enh the 25th Aviation Battalion of South Vietnam since October 8 
8 POINT PLATFORM 

If elected to the offices of President and Vice-president, SORGE and GORRELL assert that their administration will be vocally loud and physically active. They speak of "real change" and they have a definite platform to implement it. This is something the other candidates have neglected to put forth, definite course of action! Tl1is is the SORGE, GORRELL 8-POINT PLATFORM. 
1. 
It is the duty of the class officers to advise their class as to where pressure is to be put to effect change. The SORGE, GORRELL administration will make a point directing class pres­sure.. 

2. 
The Freshman class must be kept abreast of what is being done in their administration on cam­pus. This will be ac·complished through point 3. 

3. 
A Freshman class Newsletter will be published biweekly in order to advise the students on what is being done and what the students can do. 

4. 
Coeducation is a must if our university is to offer its students a 


.. realistic ulife" during their' years 
here. This will be the main social 
priority of the SORGE, GORRELL administration. 
5. 
Sophomore car rights ­there has been no just reason to deny the Sophomores the use of cars. 

6. 
Sophomore Off-Campus Rights -This is also justified, plus it will help alleviate crowd­ing, (hopefully it will also make room on campus for female stu­dents.). 


7. Student Security Force ­
Used in Rutgers University, it has proved itself an effective crime fighter which is more satisfactory to the students than a large police force on campus. 
8. Work with the Admissions office to see that the incoming Freshman class gets better infor­mation and a better choice in selecting their coursE•s then we did. 
Vote today for SORGE, GORRELL, we can all make it with a little heI p from our friends! · 
found the huge store of RS before dawn Tuesday killing the 25th Infantry had "stood in a massive effort to cut North millimeter shells in underground d down" to pack for home. v1·etnamesc suppi" J1"nes.
nine persons and woun ing 44 , J 
installations 200 miles northeast South 8Md sl._ for d_____.__..M 
of the Cambodian capital of according to field reports. av ,..•..,naaw•u Phnom Penh. The report said the heaviest South Bend has been selected South Bend was chosen 
The operation launched Mon-fighting occurred at a position as a target city for the first mass because its high concentration of day is the first push into north-held by two government balta­demonstration during the Nixon manufacturing firms makes it eastern Cambodia since Ameri-lions at Odar, with an estimated administration to dramatize particularly vulnerable to can troops spearheaded a drive 500 Communists attempting to what the organizers call the anti-inflationary strategy, thus into the area last May spokes-overrun the camp in a five hour government's responsibility for causing a high percentage of men in Saigon said. attack. high unemployment. The action unemployment. The organizers 
Cambodian soldiers had aban-In Saigon, the U.S. command will be held on Saturday. feel the Nixon administration is doned the densely jungled thinly said that two more American December 12, 1970. responsible. 
Student Senate accused of racism in decisions 
According to Afro American tion of $3000.00 to the hall representative body. He cited continue attending numerous the fact that the senate had a meetings to explain philosophies 
Society chairman Ernie Jackson, presidents and the rejection of 

the decisions of the student sen­numerous facets of the Afro: moral responsibility and a duty and idealologies to a body that ate so far concerning financial American End Mexican Ameri­to represent the interests of min­has stated its intention to ration­allocations to his organization can budgets. J aekson felt that ority students as members of the allY consider budgets. 
are the reflections of a racist this reflected the racist priorities student body. body. He questioned the alloca-of what was supposed to be a Jackson also blasted the cov­In reference to the discussion 

Join the Knights of Columbus 
Wed. Nov. If ?t 7:30 PM 
For More Information Call: 6795 or 7018 
Everybody Welcome 
FLARES 



GALORE 
'.Ve :1ave Jever had suc'1 a fine selection of flares, jea,ls and slacks as we '1ave in stock now...cords, wools, stretch lmits in every conceivable style, color, pattern and stripe. ''Ve have an exceptional range of sizes, too. 


BuY Now. F-"c, Next Summer 
You pay one-third in June, one-third in July and one-third in August of next year ... and you tJay no service or carrying charge! 


erage the Observer gave to the of the budget, Jackson felt that issue. He felt that often state­the Senate was being "too ments were taken out of context picky" anu getting hung up with and blown out of proportion in trivialities. He mentioned a state­order to "make a headline", and ment by one of the senators tl at that this was "sensationalism". the representatives were going to Jackson stated that an euitorial be rational in consideration of su~h as the one criticising the the budget. "In that light, there allocation of the senate to the is no need of dealing with trivial­
Mexican-American Society and ities and requiring unnecessary supporting the three thousand explanation,"according to Jack­dollar proposal of the hall pres­son. ident's ,·ouncil was blatantly ra­Jackson stated in conclusion cist. that "the student body, through 
its electc:d represen tativcs has 
shown blacks and chicanos thatIn answer to the allegation minority students can no longerthat his society showed lack of put good faith in it, anu that its concern by its absence, Jackson priorities are no longer or neversaid that he and members of the were, concerned with minorityAfro American Society were at groups." He also felt this indica­the first meeting and that they ted that minority groups wereexplained their budget. He felt dealing with a racist studentthat they did an adequate job body full of insensitivity and and that there was no need to unconcern for their benefits. 
European iournolist scheclu feel for fiberof arts tof~ tonight 
The Law Auditorium on the Church-State relations in the campus of the University of modern world, and the unique Notre Dame will be the scene of development of the bond be­a talk by European journalist, l ween Europe and the United novelist, and political commen­States. tator, Erik von Kuehneldt­
His recent research has .. v.1· Leddihn. Invited by the 
centrated in the areas of Russian members 6f the Orestes Brown-Literature and certain specific son Society, a group "dedicated 
problems in the political realm. to the rational and peaceful dis­He has published articles in a cussion of topics pertinent to score of American scholarly the modern student," Professor 
journals, and his works have Kuehneldt-Leddihn illustrates 
been translated into several lan­the modern ideal of the Renais­
guages. sance Man. Well-versed in over He is a frequent contributor 
a dozen languages, he has ta u!?hl to National Review, the Amer­
at American universities and ican Conservative journal edited 
abroad in nearly every subject by William F. Buckley, Jr. 
commonly associated with the His talk will begin at 8: IS 
l.iberal Arts. He is an expert in p.m., and is open to the public 
European intellectual history, without charge. 
r======ltfE=PSAltE=====olX;M=cS:NtS=:=:rrn~~Jc=s=;=;t! 
I R.K. MUELLER. INC. I 

JEWELERS 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 






