
Vol. v, No. 18 Serving the Notre Dame and ~iaint Mary's College Community Monday, Oct. 5, 1970 
Drop in enthusiasm blamed 
Referendum defeated by ND students 

classes.

Students and faculty at Notre Dame and St. Mary's over­Students Body President whelmingly rejected Friday a David Krashna said last week proposed two-week election that if the referendum failed recess. student government would work 
The rect:Ss, if approved would on obtaining academic immunity 
from October 24th tn Ncvemh~r 

less decide to leave school and 5th to alluw students and facul· help candidates. ty to help in the fall campaigns. The combined student bodies Lost class time would have been opposed the proposal by a 
made up by shortening the 3,200-1 .027 vote and the Thanksgiving and Christmas combined faculties turned down vacations and· holding Saturday the recess by a 382-61 count. 

on the referendum, agreed with 
Krashna's appraisal of the situa-' 
tion. Signs of the future defeat
Student views on vote 
by Dave McCarthy The results (lf Friday's refe­n:ndum on th(: "Princeton Plan" came as no surprise to campus student leaders. Both supporter~ and opponents of the plan agreed that the political atmo­sphere on can~pus had gone through a ''cooling off" period since the strike activities of last spring. 
SBP Dave Krashna said he had 
favored the suspension. "I 
thought students could help in 
different poli~ical situations and 
that it was good for the students 
to put into pructice what they 
have learned." 
"I was not surprised that it 
failed," he said. Though he did 
admit surprise at the decisive 
margin of defeat. 
He was asked whether the students ltad ··cooled off" since the idea was proposed last spring and whether that was a factof>in the outcome 'That must be the reasoa." he replied. "That's the .main thing. It seems you always have to have a crisis before people react... 
Krashna felt the results of the reft•rcndum were an accurate appraisal of the "present political atmosphere on cam-. 
pus.•· Krashna said he would have done things a little differently. Had he been in a position to alter proced ured of the referen­dum, "There should have been more places to vote~ The halls for the students, and maybe O'Shaughnessy Hall for the facu­lty. But,"he added. "I couldn't have changed the lack of inte­rest. That was the most blatant thing." . Stay senator Tom Thrasher, has opposed the recess since its 
proposal. He explained, ''!t is 
not the role of the University , ; · · 
officially involve itself in politi­
cal activity. Although individual 
members of the community can 
do so." 
"I don't think it came as a surprise to anyone. I expected the faculty to vote it down. r\nd I thought the students would vote it down too,'' he said. 
Thrasher indicated he thought the results could be used as a gauge of campus political mood. "It was the most accurate ap­praisal you're going to get ,. 
Bill Wilka, Academic Affairs Commissioner, has been a strong supporter of the proposal. ''It would have left the option open to people who had particular committmcnts to take time out to campaign without being punished,"Wilka said. 
"I expected it to fail. A lot of things were built into the provi­sions.'' But he added. ·'People just didn't want it." 
Wilka felt that many people 
who may have favored the recess 
at the time of the Kent Cambo­
dia crisis were "still interested in 
doing something, but they did a 
Jot of thinking over the summ·T 
and decided that the suspension 
was not the right way to do it." 
Wilka was sure that had th~ 
entire student body voted, the 
motion would still have failed. 
"No vote at all was the same as ·a 
'no' vote and others wen.~ so 
convinced that it would fail that 
they didn't vote." 
Chris '.Volfe explained his op­
position to the recess proposal. 
'"I was much against it. It inter 
feres with the academic process 
of the University." 
Wolfe said he had been con­
fident the referendum would be The Notre Dame Public Rela vention in Cambodia, the tra­lions office reported that 52% of gedy at Kent State and the the faculty and 47% of the consequent reawakening of 

student bodies voted. student political interest. An absolute majority o'f bot'l The academic policy making 
groups was needed for the recess bodies of Notre Dame and St. Mary's met two weeks ago and formulated the guidelines for the referendum. Joint guidcli nes w~:re established be.:ause the schools share a common ao­demil: calendar. 
The defeat of the propos~:d recess came as no surprise to anyone. Even the ardent backers of the proposal conc~:ded last week that th~: chances of the referendum's passage were quite small. 
A great drvp in stuJent politi­cal enthusiasm and th'' ~tritif,Ciit demands fer the propos;!l'< f''-!S~­age were viewed as the contri­buting factors in the defeat vf the proposal. 
Student Body President Dave Krashna last week accused the Academic Council of con­
sciously making conditions ad. verse" for the referendum's pass­age. He thought that the Council majority is a majority of the was sorry they ever proposed the eligible votes rather than a idea of a refer,~ndum and wanted majority of the votes cast. to make sure it would not pass. 
The Notre Dame Academic 

However, Krashna admitted that Council scheduled Friday's refe­no of Academic
member the rendv.m last spring in the wake Council had told him this direct­of the United State's inter-ly. Most studt:nts. pro and con 
for the recess were evident since defeated. "It was quite obvious school started this fall. Theit would fail after it was stipu­heightened sensitivity to the Warlated that classes would have to last May generated by Cam9odia be mad"-up.'' 
and Kent State was appreciablyHe concurred that the "cool­off this fall. The Movement for a 
ing off' period between May New Congress chapter on cam­and October was a ''contributing 
pus has been virtually unheard factor" to the proposal's defeat, 
from this semester. 
but added, "Even in May, under 
Two of last spring's most voci the given conditions the idea 
ferous supporters of a "prince­would failed." 
ton Plan" at Notre Dame, Krash-
Wolfe conceded that there is "a lot of political apathy on na himself and vice-president, Mark Winings, were hesitant about supporting the plan this fall. Krashna endorsed the idea only two two days before the vote. 
Be was worried that students conc-entrate completely on a candidate's war position which he said could lead to support of a candidate who was a "half­stepper" on civil rights and poverty. 
The effectiveness of massive student support for a car.didate was questioned by some. Also, many students objected to having their vacation time subs­tituted for by campaign time that \vnuld not be used. 
Many oppoments of the pro· 
posal were worried that the re-' 
cess would "politicit.c" the tini­
versity. Proponents argued that 
the university is already "politi­
cized", and only the direction 
remains to be chosen. 
Some student an~l faculty 
bodies hdore h!r!::y's vote haJ 
gone on record as opposed to 
the recess. The St. Mary's Facul­
ty Assembly. which includes all 
the teaching faculty, went on 
record in opposition to the re­
cess. The Notre Dame Law 
School s1 udents also went on 
record in opposition. 
Early last week, the St. Mary's 
Stndent Assembly voted 11-1 
against accepting the proposal as 
such. Instead, the Assembly 
unanimously favored allowing a 
student. free from "punitive 
action," to form as agreement 
with her professors if she wanted 
to help campaign. 
Many students left Friday for 
the Nutre Dame-Michigan State 
fo0tball game on Saturday and 
consequently did not vote and 
were unaware of the results until 
they returned to campus Sun­
nay. 
campus." He termed the referen­dum an "accurate" standard of 
G·oodell refutes Agnew
Notre Dame political atmos­
phere. He noted that the per­centage(52%) of eligible voters who cast ballots was very similar to the percentage the votes dur­ing the national election. 
(Continued on page 2) 

Pantry asks funds 
Tonight at the North and 

South Dining Halls the Peoples 
Pantry will be asking for money 
from students so that the activi­
ties of the Pantry can be con­
tinued, The group, which was 
started during the student strike 
last Spring and has bren the· 
only major strike-born organiza­
tion to continue over the sum­
mer, is now in financial diffi­
culty, according to Bill Fleming, 
one of the leaders. 
Fleming said that the money 

collected during the strike fi 
nanced the pantry during the 
summer and that as many as 50 
people a night were able to take 
advantage of the free food clo­
thing, and books offered. Now 
however, the money has run out 
and Fleming said that the group 
was relying on the students for 
support. 
WASHINGTON (lfPI) Sen. Charles E. Goode!, R. N-.Y., re­sponded yesterday to Spiro T. Agnew's critkism of him last week by accusing the vice presi­dent of "attacking the very basis of democracy" in a manner re­miniscent of the McCarthy era. 
Goodell, locked in a tough three "lay race for re-election, urged President Nixon to put "constraints" on Agnew and to "make it clear" that he doesn't support the vice president's ef­fprts to get the GOP "to turn hard right." 
Agnew, who is scheduled to speak today at a New York luncheon arranged partly to raise money for Conservative party candidate James l.. Buckley, one of Goodell's opponents, charged last vleck that Goodell was a "radiclib" · who ''has left his party." He stopped short of en­dorsing Buckley, but Goodell predicted yesterday that would happen in the weeks ahead. 
Goodell's. reply came during an interview on the Metromcdia radio news program "Profile'' 
"It's perfectly proper for a vice president or anybody else to go out and c:\mpaign for people, but what he's doing really is attacking the· very basis of a democracy...He wants to inti­midate; he has differed without respect for those who disagree with him ... 
"It's a part of what I call a scapegoat syndrome in this cotill­try, where you're always looking for a simplistic answer in a sim­plistic individual or group or movement to blame for all our wrongs... 
"I think there are parallels back to the early 1950's, tht' McCarthy era, because in a uif­ferent way that's what Sen. Joe McCarthy was doing in this country. And I think Spiro Ag­new is in a s.:nse perhaps more sophisticated than Joe McCar­thy, which perhaps makes him more dangerous..." 
Goodell. who said .he did not think· -Agnew's attacks on him were made with the consent or knowledge of Nixon even though White House aide Murray Chotiner said the vice presid·ent wasn't spealjng only for himself said the ·Prcsid.~nt was obligated to stop :1i"'· ­
Page 2 



Faculty sur·prised at vote returns 
By Dave Bach 

The faculty of Notre Dame 
turned down the proposed elec­
tion campaign recess by a vote 
of~ 82-61, but the overwhelming 
defeat of the proposal surprised 
very few faculty members. 

In fact, Donald Kommers, 
Associate Professor of Govern­
ment was "surprised that 61 
voted for it." ' 

The reason he gave for saying 
this, he explained in an interview 
with The Obwserver, was that. 
while many faculty members 
were im sympathy with the 
thinking of the students, very 
few wanted· to clos~ down-ffie 
university. "No one has the right 
to ask the university to close 
•down" while other members want it to remain open, he said. "The whole vote reflected the maturity and good sense of the faculty and students of Notre Dame." 
Three other professors con­tacted by The Observer also ex­pressed little surprise about the results of the voting. Paul Con­way, Associate Professor of Finance and Business Economics 
and a member of the Student 
Life Council, said that he was 
"not surprised at the faculty 
turn-<lown, but by the faculty 
turn-out." 
Conway said that there iust 
was not enough feeling on cam­
pus to do anything at this par­· ticular time. 
The spring demonstration fol­
lowing the Unitt!d States' entry 
into Cambodia he said ''was the 
first realshow of enthusiasm and 
untiy --outside of a pep rally ­
that he had seen at Notre 
Dame." 
''It might have had a very good chance last spring," he concluded, '·but that spirit has faded .... I couldn't really see it being worthwhile without the enthusiasm of the students." 
John Houck, Associate Pro­fessor of Business Organization 

and Management, and also a member of the Student Life · Council, said that this difference in feeling was due to the fact that last spring's activity was 
::*::::::::::::::::::::::::;;;;::::::::::::;;:::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::·::::::::::i: within the university, whereas he Pr.iRceton Plan would have he students leave the university. said it was going from "some­



bverS 
The Committee for a New Congress has created a Steerin:; Committee to coordinate stu­

lane 
dent political action with the 
Hartke and Brandeinas 
:Campaigns in St. Joseph's 
: County, Doubtful of the success 
of the Princeton Plan in today's election, committee head Don Mooney still hopes to utilize a portion of the "political concern expressed during last year~ strike." 
On this campus, Mooney con­tended, most of those who have shown interest in the organiza­tio.ll are liberals 
The Committee is concentra­.. ting its efforts in the South Bend ·area, at least until the weekend 
before elections, Mooney said, 
,..,.,_,, ......:. although there are plans for the ' active support of Allard Lowenstein in New York and Jack Gilligan in Ohio. 
In Indiana, the six-member Steering Committee wm serve as a liaison between the offices of Vance Hartke and John Brade­mas and the students. Barney Gallagher who is now in Wash-
Proof of
Open 
12:45 Age Required 

JADE 

ever made iH

EAST HOLLYWOOD••• A HARRY NOVAK PRESENTATION INTRODUCING STARRING SOlOll JAY EDIIIDI AS DIXIE 0110111
SWANK INC.-Sole Distributor 


thing they know to something they don't know." Komrriers also expressed this sentiment. ..1 sympathize with those who might have gotten involved last summer. If they go back to campaign there will be room for them . . . But if a student has not made contact with a political campaign as this late date, I doubt whether they could be meaningful cogs in an election organization." "I only hope," Kommer~ add­
ed, "that if any student leaves to. campaign, there will be no retri­bution." 
William Storey, Associate Pro­fessor of Theology and a mem­ber of the .Faculty Senate, said that he "had a feeling of relief from people, even some people I thought would be in favor of the 
break." 
Houck added that he would have much preferred. a third choice, which would "have ketp the school in session and yet those who knew of some cam­paign to participate in would be allowed to leave for ten dll)'s and make up the work. 


Pf'litical cf'mmitt~~ fl"tmt'd 
ington meeting with Senator Hartke to discuss Notre Dame's role in his campaign leads the group, which includes Ed Smith, Pat McDonough, Dave Johnson, Dan Moore, and Anne Radford. 
Theoretically nonpartisan. the 
committee locally founded by , Government Professor John 
Reuss will possess information 
on every Congressional candi­date in the country and will contact individual states about 
anyotherspecificcandidates. 
One of the committee's prin­
cipal functions, Mooney said. 
will be to establish either one or 
two captins in each residence 
hall who will organize men to 
recruit block workers in St. 
Joseph's County by telephone.
~>'looney estimates that ten cul~~rJ per night will contact 2200 workers by November 15. 
Notre Dame students will not• 
canvass in the precincts directly under the Committee's plan but they may be asked to hand out leaflets and help on election d~y. 
She led them into 

IN CoLoR 
"As stated, the plan was an unrealistic proposal for closing the university," llouck said. 
Houck disa7reed with the argument that closing the uni· 

versity for political campaigns was undesirable. ''I don't think political activity is undesirable," Houck said, "a calendar is rather an arbitrary thing anyway ... 
To allow people on a bipartisan basis to campaign doesn't mean that the university is politici-' zed." 

Both Kommers and Houck agreed that the student vote was ''no indication of what the stu­dents think of the day.'' 

Student views 
(Continued from page 1) 

John Barkett, Chairman of the HPC was not in favor of the suspension, ~'Mainly because of the terms. They were unreal­istic." 
"Last year was very emotion­:~!," he remarked,"But after three months of summer and a month of school there has been at least a change in enthusiasm." 
Barkett was in favor of a discarded proposal that would have given interested sutdents an opportunity to campaign after consulting their professors. He did see a need for "Some form or structure to make sure those who left actually worked with 
ca1~didates." 


Prof. Donald Kommers 

U.S.A. FOOLED 

WASHINGTON UPI Sen. J. William Fulbright, D.-Ark., charged Sunday that the admin­istrati n was "hoodwinking the American people" by warning of possible construction of a Soviet Submarine base in Cuba. He also said there was "little doubt" that the United States maintains nuclear weapons at site.~ border­ing the Soviet Union. 
In an interview, Fulbright said Defense Department officials who briefed his Foreign Rela­tions Committee last week not only had no evidence that a submarine base was under con­truction, but did not even try to convince the committee that it was. 
lie said the department's pub­lic disclosure of intelllgence data showing some sort of construc­tion activity at Cienfuegos, on Cuba's southern coast, was de­signed to "alarm" Americans to spur Congress to approve gener­ous appropriations for the Penta­gon. 
•••••••••••••••••••••••n••••••••••••••••i 
.• 
:= 
!e 
• : •: 
e • 
e 
• 
: 
: 
• 
• :. 
• 
• 
• 
•




ATTENTION.• .=• 
• REPORTERS e • ~ 
:

& A1.1. • :. 
•

• INTERESTED •• e• • 
:


IN REPORTI.NG • • 
• .: 
• • 
•
• 

: THERE Will BE A WRITING WORKSHOP ON TUESDAY: : OCt. 6TH FROM 7:30 TO 9:30 IN ROOM 2D LA FORTUNE: • STUDENT CENTER :
• 

: . 
e All present reporters must attend this workshop or one that e : will be held later in the week. : 
·• . 
.. 

'••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • 
Hair Styling 
(or ND men the Continental Way 
· Razor Cutting & Style · E"ropcan Layer Shaping for Long Hait 
Have Lon,g Hatr & Let Miss Treva & The Baron Be Well Groomed Serv.e & Pamper you 
Continental Hair Styling 
306 Sherland Bldg. 

South Bend, Ind. Student Rates 234-0811 By Appt. 
r--· The ,Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students 6f the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid Notre Dame Ind. 46556. · 
Monday, Oct. 5, 1970 711£ OBSERrJER. 




Concert quality affected by council finances 

by Jack ·O'Neil Last May the Social Commis­sion ran a poll to find out what groups w-:!re the most popular on ,campus. Among those that were ·most requested were Chicago, Peter, Pau I & Mary, Creedence Clearwater Revival, the Who, Santana, Crosby Stills Nash & Young, Country Joe & the Fish ·and Simon & Garfunkel. Not one of the above is scheduled to appear at Notre Dame, and none ever will. Why? The hottest groups in the country right now are the Who 4and Chicago. They are booked all this year and up to June of I 971. That means that both are either in concert or at a scheduled recording session or on a scheduled vacation. Both bands demand $20,000 guar­anteed plus a hefty percent of the profit. Creedence asks a minimun guarantee of $25,000 and Simon and Garfunkel ask fifty  Country Joe & the Fish will not perform together any longer If you want to see them you can have a two part concert with Jee doing the first set and the Fish the second. Would you pay money to see that? Jim Porst, Social ·Commissioner'' doesn'-t think so. Soulful Carlos Santana is al­ready booked up this Fall and won't make any committments for the spring. The same goes for Peter, Paul & Mary. Apparently by the time the Social Commis­sioner gets appointed it's much too late to contract good bands for Fall concerts. That is the key problem. Another big problem is money. For example the Three Dog Night Concert of a week ago. Contacted in early May, the group's minimum guarentee was $15,000 (they now go for $20,000). They had a slight open spot in their schedule, an open Friday night betweeo Iowa and ·Ohio concert dates. Be.sides  made from the show was about $33,000. So the Three Dog Night made IS thousand plus 7 thousand ( 70% of about $11 ,000), a total of $22,000 which is not bad for about an hour"s work. That left the ~hool with $11,000 of which 5 thousand went for expenses such as Bush and a sound system, leaving 6 OIJserv• fnslaltt  bands have large auditoriums that seat from 15,000 to 20,000. Since Notre Dame has limited seating Student Union can offer onl¥. a limited guarantee and that limits our range of enter tainment... The second problem is more extensive. The University has re­quired that a~! shows and con­certs be co-sponsore,d between the Student Union and the Ath­letic and Convocatio·n Cetner. The Social Commission does all  Porst has said that he wants to bring good shows to the campus without digging too cJeeply into the students monetary reserves. He sited the example of a planned free folk concert to be held Sunday after the Army game, possibly outside, weather . permitting. There are problems and they are identifiable, but they don't seem to be reparable at this time.  
grand. Crosby Stills Nash & Young are no longer together in any shape or form.  the original $15,000, their con­tract called for 70% of all profits over $22,500. The total gross  
British  tour offered  
chance  to  get  "stoned"  at  
St. Mary's history department  Blarney Castle and the trip will  
is  tripping  out  over  Christmas  conclude with a traditional 14th  
and invited SMC and ND stu­dents to. join them. The department is sponsoring  centruy meal in Bunratty Castle. The return flight from Shannon will arrive in New York in the  
a three week study tour of Eng­ afternoon, Jan. 18.  
land, Scotland and Ireland  Dec.  Plays  and  concerts  are·  in­ 
28throughJan.18. Tour price is $582--which in­cludes transportation from and to New York City aboard Irish International Airlines (what  cluded in the itinerary. as well as meetin,gs with college faculty members and student groups in London, Oxford·, Edinburgh and Dublin.  
else?), hotels and meals  and all  College credit will be granted  
sightseeing and land transporta­tion costs. A fifty-dollar reserva­tion deposit paid before Nov. 2~ is required. Highlights of the trip include a tour of Chaucer's Canterbury, a New Year's celebration inTra­ at an additional cost of $55 per credit hour. Anyone tating the tour may earn one credit hour-­two credits will require a paper on some subject related to the trip in the student's major area of interest.  
falgar Square, and visits to the British Museum in London and the mysterious 4 ,000-year-old Druidic Temple at Stonehenge. One day will be spent in .. Shake­speare Country," with a stop at Blenheim Palace, Churchill's  Dr. Anthony R. Black, of the SMC history department will direct the tour. He is a specialist in modern European and Anglo-­Irish history and has visited Eng­land and Ireland frequently for research.  
birthplace. After a three-day stay in the Edinburgh area, the  Brochures detailing ·the trip are available from Dr. Black.  
group will fly to Dublin for several days of sight-seeing there. The tour members will have a  Anyone interested in a three--· week stay in the British Isles may contact him at 284-4948.  
Open house scheduled  
Prof.  R.  D.  Willemin,  Di­ Prof. Willemin asked that stu­ 
rector of the Placement Bureau  dents and faculty of the various  
announced that the Bureau will  colleges visit the Placement Bur­ 
hold "open house" for graduat­ eau accoring to this schedule:  
ing  seniors,  graduate  students  Tues., Oct. 6 Arts and Letters  
and college faculties from 2 to 5  and Science seniors and faculty.  
pm on Tuesday, Wednt,!sday and  Wed., Oct. 7 Bus. Admin and  
Thursday of this week. The pur­ Engineering seniors and faculty.  
pose  of the "open house,"  he  Thurs. ,Oct.  8  Graduate and  
said, is to acquaint the students  Law students and faculty.  
and faculties with recent changes  St. Mary's Cotlege seniors and  
that  have  taken  place  in  the  faculty  are  invited  and  may  
Bureau  and  to  show  off  the  come on any of the three days.  
;tudent-employer  interviewing  The  Placement  Bureau is lo­ 
rooms,  career and  employer in­ cated in Room 222, and adjoin­ 
formation services  and  to  meet  ing rooms  in the Administration  
the ~taff.  B21ilding..  


J 

Page 4 7118 OBSEilfiER Monday. Oct. 5, 1970 
Joe, defense whitewash MSU 29-0 
by Terry Shields Observer Sports Editor Duffy Daugherty called Notre Dame "a fine football team" 

after the game. Ara Parseghian said that he "was glad the trip and a 21 year jinx at Spartan Stadium was over." Both com­ments pretty much sum up the thoughts on Saturday's 36th re­newal of this outstanding grid­iron classic. 
Notre Dame used an outstand­ing defense and a great personal display by Joe Theismann and 


the offensive line to subdue the 
upset-minded Michigan State 
Spartans 29-0. This was the 
second successive shutout by the 
Irish defense and they have a ten 
quarter scoreless string. Actually 
there have been no bonafide 
scores against ND's big "D". The 
only touchdowns came at North­
western one a punt return and 
the other a twenty-three yard 
march after a recovered fumble. 
Offensively, it looked like 

more of the same as Theismann 
was alarmingly accurate through 
the air (12 of 17 for 14 7 yards) 
and equally devestating on the 
ground as he carried 13 times for 
107 yards. He found Tom Gate­
wood nine times as The Irish ace 
receiver is h~auling in aerials at a 
pace far above the N D record of 
60 for a season. He now has 28 
receptions in three games. 
It looked as though this game might be a replay of the 1968 ND-MSU fiasco when State moved the ball extrememly well in their initial drive. Clarence Ellis third interception of the season stopped this threat but in the ensuing Irish drive Theis­mann threw the ball back to State and the majority of the 76,103 present went wild·. 
Gradually .the optimum in of­fensive lines wore down the spirited Saprans and the Irish pushed across one touchdown in the first stanza. Theismann mixed plays exceptionally well with Bill Barz driving for pay dirt from the one. 
In the second period N D es­tablished its superiority for gr .od with two long drives. Bob Min­nix carried from a yard out for one TD and the other was tallied by Ed Gulyas on a two yard plunge. Scott Hempel converted the first two extra points hut a poor snap from center halted the toe of Scott from registering 
another point hut Joe impro­
vised an end run for two mar­
kers. 
The second half was a very 

defensive battle with neither team managing a score until the closing minutes. Although Notre Dame moved the ball fairly well they couldn't take the pigskin in. Ara explained after the game that he didn't want Theis mann throwing much into the tricky . wind, thus many drives were stopped on the ground. Duffy complimented Theismann on the fact that he was so accurate in such adverse passing conditions. 
Larry Parker scored the final 

ND touchdown with only 15 
seconds remaining as he skirted 
right end for four yards. 
State hit very hard in the second half particularly Brad MeLee, a roverback. They also moved the ball after George Mihaiu took over for the frustrated and battered Mike Ras­mussen. Mihaiu moved the MSU attack on the ground but never far enough. or hard enough to dent the scoreboard. 
Walt Patulski played an out­standing game from his defensive end slot as he got to Sparta1; quarterbacks on two occasiom; plus a number of times when he came close to dumping the qb. Daugherty said that because of Patulski and his big playmates iJ the line his quarterbacks couldn't spot their receivers and this was one reason for the Irish success against the pass. 
Linebackers Tirr Kelly and Jim Wright :1lso sl ined in the whitewash. Together they ac· counted for 21 tackles a nice days work. 
Michigan State must face another giant of college football next week when they meet Ohio State at East Lansing. 

Larry Parker rambles four yards to mark up the last Notre Dame touchdown of the afternoon. Parker scored with only 1 5 seconds remaining in the game. 
Statistics-the jinx is broken 
TEAM STATISTICS MS NO First Downs Rushing 9 17 First Downs Passing 2 7 First Downs by Penalties 1 0 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 12 24 Number Attempts Rushing 43 73 Yards Gained Rushing 181 374 Yards Lost Rushing 37 8 NET YARDS RUSHING 144 366 Number passes Attempted 19 17 Number Passes Completed 4 12 Number Passes had Intercepted 1 1 NET YARDS PASSING 30 147 Total Plays 62 90 TOTAL OFFENSE 174 513 Number Times Punted 10 4 Number Punts had Blocked 1 0 PUNTING AVERAGE 27 30 Number Punts Returned 13 10 NET YARDS PUNTS RT'D. 0 4 Number Kickoffs Returned 6 0 Yards Kickoff Returned 105 0 Number Times Penalized 1 4 TOTAL YARDS PENALIZED 5 40 Number Times Fumbled 3 2 NUMBER FUMBLES LOST 2 1 
NOTRE DAME  7  15  0  7  
MICHIGAN STATE  0  0  0  0  
SCORING  

NO: Barz 1 run, Hempel kick NO: Minnix 1 run, Hempel kick NO: Gulyas 2 run, Theismanrr run NO: Parker 4 run, Hempel kick 
NOTRE DAME 
RUSHING ATT. YDS. Allan 
8 28 Gulyas 19 84 Barz 14 63 Theismann 13 113 Parker 
5 13 Minnix 11 63 Ceiszkowski 3 10 

RECEIVING Gatewood Parker Creaney Barz  NO. 9 1 1 1  YDS. 117 3 11 16  TD. 0 0 0 0  
PUNTING Yoder  NO. 4  AVG. 30  
PUNT RETURNS Crotty  NO. 5  AVG. .8  
KICKOFF RETURNS None  NO.  YDS.  
MCHIGAN STATE  
RUSHING Matthews Triplett Allen Alderson Rasmussen Mihaiu Slank  ATT. 7 8 7 3 6 7 5  VDS. 29 40 19 10 ·16 47 15  TD. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  
29 0  PASSING Rasmussen 1\"ihaiu  ATT 10 9  COMP 2 2  INT 1 0  YDS 19 11  TO 0 0  
RECEIVING Matthews Slank Bowdell Triplett  No. 1 1 1 1  YDS. 17 2 16 -5  TO. 0 0 0 0  
TD. 0 1 1 0 1 1 0  PUNTING Salani P. Miller TEAM PUNT RETURNS Martin KICKOFF RETURNS Mathews  NO. 8 1 1 NO. 1 NO. 1  AVG. 30 36 -5 AVG. 0 YDS. 19  


PASSING ATT COMP II'H YDS TO Allen 3 60 Theismann 17 12 1 147 0 Alderson 2 26 
-. 





