
Vol. V, No.2 Serving the Notre Dame and Saiill M_ary 's College ('ommunit)' Wednesday, September 9, 1970 
Guerillas demand release of 3,000 
International Red Cross of­would gain release of the hos­bers of the special team were ficials said Tuesday that Arab tages before guerillas might out a also ready to start mediation guerillas were now demanding threat to blow up two hijacked talks with Palestinian guerillas as that Israel release 3,000' tab jets with many passengers still soon as instructions are received prisoners. it holds as an addition­aboard. from the governments concern­al condition _for freeing about A three man mediation mis­ed. 300 hijacked airliner passengers sion of the International Red Swiss government sources said 
adn crewmen held hostage in Cross flew into the Jordanian the Swiss, U.S., West German Jordan. capital of Amman with food and and British governments had 
The stepped up ransom de­medical supplies for 300 or more agreed on a unified stance for mand was reported even as the passengers and crew of TWA and obtaining the release of the hos­United States, Britain, West Ger­Swissair jetliners hijacked by tages. 
many, Switzerland and Israel guerillas Sunday to a desert air­In Washington the State De­consulted a possible· package strip in Jordan. partment said it had named the deal with Arab guerillas that Red Cross officials said mem-International !{ed Cr?ss to act 

Search for President
•


of SMC cont1nues 
the summer. The committee will the goals of Catholic higher edu­

By Jeanne Sweeney 
ultimately submit three names cation for women, with a special 

SMC News Editor 
to the Board of Trustees from concern for an active Christian Over one hundred nominees which a new president will be college community at St. Mary's College.

were suggested to the Presi­elected. 
Other qualities desired are cre­dential Search Committee of St. Sister Alma could not release 

the names of any of the nomi­ative leadership, business acu­Mary's College which began its men with demonstrable success,work in July to fill the position nees or the candidates being possession of a developed andleft by the death of Monsignor interviewed because she said all articulate Christian educationalJohn J. McGrath, former presi­that in formation must be kept 

philosophy, and an under­

dent of SMC. confi den tial. 
standing and appreciation of theSister M. Alma Peter was ap-She expressed doubt that the value of tradition and disciplinepointed Acting President three names, from which the together with an openness toby the Board of Trustees in Trustees would elect a new presi­accept change and challenges ofJune, 1970, and she chairs the dent, would be presented at the the world today.

presidential search committee. next meeting of the Trustees in A willingness to study care­The committee includes mem­October. But Sister said that a fully the present cooperdtivebers of the Board of Trustees, meeting of the Trustees can be program between SMC and theassociate board of trustees, ad­called at any time. 
University of Notre Dame and toministration, faculty and one Criteria for the presidency in­work with the Coordinatingstudent. cludes an appropriate academic Committee in furthering this co­Sister Alma explained that the stature with professional qualifi­operation within the parameterscommittee has been interviewing cations and experience for the set by the Board of Trustees ofvarious candidates throughout position and a commitment to SMC is also included in the criteria.

Intellectual atmosphere 
The nine members of the presidential search committee


chief SMC priority 
are Sister M. Alma, Mr. John

By Ann Conway 
Best, an Associate Trustee, Sister 
essential position anymore. It's

Observer Associate Editor 
not as necessary as it used to be Miriam Patrick Cooney, a mem­

Student government priorities in the sense that its primary role ber of the faculty, Sister M. for the '70-'71 school year will was to change regulations." Verda Clare Doran, a trustee, Dr. be to "promote an intellectual Miss Tracey's primary goal Dorothy Feigl. on the faculty, atmosphere at St. Mary's," will be to use the student Mrs. Timothy P. Galvin, Jr., an according to Anne Marie Tracey, government to insure that every alumna, Mr. P. Jordan Hammel, SMC studen body president. area of life at St. Mary's is a trustee, Dr. Brune Schlesinger, 
"We've formulated former recognized and of valid on the faculty and Ann Marie ideas. Student government as it educational form. Explaining Tracey, the president of the existed before doesn't have an (Continued on page 7) SMC student body. 
as a channel of communications 
with the airplane hijackers. A 
spokesman reported "an air of 
urgency and concern within the 
United States Government over 
the matter." 

The Popular Front for the 
Liberation of ·Palestine, which 
hijacked three New York bound 
airliners Sunday and tried to 
seize a fourth, have threatened 
to blow up the TWA Boeing 707 
and Swissair DC8 unless the na­
tions involved comply with their 
ransom demands by I 0 p.m. 
EDT Wednesday. 

The 184 hostages still aboard 
the two planes after a group of 
116 women and children were 
taken to an Amman hotel were 
allowed for the first time Tues­
day to get out of the planes and 
walk about ~ under guard --in 
the d·esert. 

During their brief outing, 
crew members reported guerillas 
had boarded the TWA plane 
Monday night and took away a 
group of six Americans and Is­
raelis, including an American sol­
dier and a chemistry teacher 
from New York City, Gerald 
Berkowitz. 

In addition to the American 
and Swiss airliners hijacked to 
Jordan, the guerilla group in 
coordxinated action also seized a 
Pan American Jumbo 747 jetlin­
er and landed it eventually at 
Cairo where guerillas blew up 
the aircraft just after the passen­
gers and crew scurried to safety. 
A fourth hijack was frustrated 
by crew members and passengers 
of an El AI plane with the 
hijacker killed and a girl guerilla 
captured before the plane landed 
safely in London. 
In a first ultimatum, the guer­
illas threatened to blow up the 
two planes they still hold with 
passengers a board unless West 

Provost 
In the University of Notre 
Dame's first major administra­
tive revision in 18 years, the 
Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., 
chairman of the department of 
theology, was named to the new­
ly created post of provost. 
Several other top administra­
"tors were reassigned. 
In the reshuffling, Phillip Fac­
cenda, a special assistant to the 
President, was elevated to the 
newly created post of vice-presi­
dent and general counsel. 
The Rev. Charles McCarragher, 
C.S.C., resigned as vice-president 
for student affairs and was later 
reassigned as director of finan­
cial aid and scholarships, with 
the Rev. Thomas Blantl., C.S.C., 
succeeding him as vice-president 
for student affairs. 
The new office of provost, 
created during the June 22 meet­
ing of the University's trustees, 
replaced the vice-presidency of 
academic affairs. 

In a letter to Notre Dame's 
faculty and administration, the 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
C.S.C. president of the Univer­sity, said that the new admi!lis­trative arrangement reduces to two the number of persons re­
. porting directly to him: the pro­vost and the executive. vice presi-
Germany and Switzerland freed 
six Arab commandos held fol­
lowing previous attacks on airlin­
ers, and Britain released the ;sifl 
hijacker captured Sunday. 
But sources at Ked Cross Headquarters in Geneva, Swit­zerland, said Tuesday the organ­ization was most concerned at present by a guerilla demand that ·Israel free all of its Arab prisoners, an estimated 3,000 persons, as part of a ransom deal. 
In London, British Prime Min­

ister Edward Heath met with top 
government ministers and it was 
disclosed afterward that Britain 
had agreed to join the United 
States, West Germany and Swit­
zerland in a united approach to 
seek the release of the hostages 
held in Jordan. 
In J erusalern, Israeli officials 

met with I tid Cross officials and 
government sources said Israel 
considered itself part of the co­
ordinated approach to the gueril­
las. 
British Foreign Minister Sir ­
Alex Douglas Home met with 
envoys of six Arab nations ­
Iraq, Edypt, Jordan, Lebanon, 
Kuwait, and Saudi Arabia. 
Officials said Horne expressed 

the British Government's "grave 
concern at this outrage." He said 
the whole international com­
munity must oppose such action 
as that committed by the gueril­
las. 
In New York, United Nations 
Secretary General, U Thant, said 
that firm measures should be 
taken to deal with the hijack 
problem. He told the newsmen 

he had discussed the matter with 
the International Civil Aviation 

Organization and the Interna­
tional Pilots Association but did 

not disclose any recommend­
ations. 

created 
dent. The Rev. Edmund P. 
Joyce, C.S.C., will continue as 
executive vice president, a post 
he has held for 18 years. 
Hesburgh, in his letter, said 

that the Provost "is directly in 
charge of the total academic en-

Rev. James Burtchaell terprise and indirectly supervises student affairs. He is Acting Presidnet in the absence of the President, a Fellow and Trustee of the University." 
"The Executive Vice Presi­dent," Hesburgh said, "will supervise everything else and will, as Treasurer of the Univer­sity, give special attention to all financial affairs. He will con tinue to be a Fellow and Trus­tee, Chairman of the Budget 
(Continued on page 3) 

PAGE 2 
Wednesday, September 9, 1970 


Huddle to be topic of questionaire today 
By Don Capshaw  action. "Actually, the new hours is a part  idea of of the  "llowever, the students are going to have a voice in the final  These forms will deal mainly with the type of food served and  Conners. He also added that if the new hours are approved, the  
Huddle's  renovation,  which  in­ decision,"  stated  Conners.  the alternatives for new hours at  Huddle  will  announce  the  
Questionaires  should  be  cludes air conditioning and new  Today  a  questionaire  will  be  t11e Huddle.  change  approximately  two  

panelling. Mr, Price is in favor of distributed to the students at the weeks following the tabulation
circulated in the dining halls and 

later hours for the Huddle and dining halls, in addition to the "We hope to have the results of the questionaires. Conners re­
at the off-campus offices today 

believes it would do substantial ones at the off-campus office. of the qucstionaires tabulated quested that the students co­
sampling student views on a pro­

business with those students and published by Monday," said operate fully with this effort.
posal to extend the Huddle's 
who study late," said Conners.
business hours and to introduce 
Both agree that students
some new services. 
studying late at night wouldDuring last spring's campaign 

Courts are subject of study
patronize the Huddle if laterfor SBP, David Krashna ex­

hours were availa blc. apolis and South Bend City Too often legislatures feel bypressed an interest in creating 
By Glen Corso court systems in order to accum­just adding extra judges and pro­new hours for the Huddle. In One problem that has arisen Observer Campus Editor ulate enough data to enable re­secutors they willsolve the prob­accordance, Senior Tim Conners, concerns employment. Conners searchers to construct a model lem. Simply by adding them youconnected with Student Govern­said some of the employees now A $191,917 grant from the of the system. don't rescue it, without addingment Research and Develop­working at the Huddle have Department of Justice has been The data, according to Dean supporting personnel (e.g., clerks ment, has been studying this stated that they would not work received by the Notre Dame Law Jerger of Engineering, will be and administrators)," said Law­idea since that time. the extended hours; in which and Engineering Schools for a placed on IBM cards much like less.
In meetings with Edmond case student employment will be study to "pinpoint the stages in those used in tests, where aPrice, Head of University Food 

sought to make up for this defi­criminal judicial procedures Lawless claimed that "90% of
student is required to black out
Services, Conners has discussed cit. Conners also added that the where delay most frequently the criminal cases that could be
the spaces with a special pencil. 
some of the advantages and dis­idea of student employment is occurs." The project will entail brought to court and settled by
An optical scanner will then be
advantages of such a course of the sole idea of Mr. Price. an in-depth study of the Indian-a jury never make it to a court."
used to transcribe the data onto A~ indicator of the delays, hea tape which will then be fed satd, was the fact that "the
Afro -American Society sponsers 

into the computer. 
average judge can only take 40From the data accumulated a cases a year to jury verdict. Forstep by step ·model of the system every case that goes to verdict he 


special orientation program 

will be constructed. In this way may have started five." Thisresearchers will be able to seedesigned to aid the frosh in other experiences as to what to
By John Abowd means, he explained that these 
entering a predominately white expect as black students in a exactly where delays occur and 
other cases were either dismissed

The Afro-American Society of then "recommend changes in
university. white university.'' 
0r reassigned for vario~s reasons.

Notre D arne sponsored an Ernie Jackson, president of All sixty-one of the incoming State constitutions, State sta­orientation program for the the society, said the purpose of tutes, Judges' rules and adminis­Lawless said he hoped that
black freshmen and their parents black freshmen on September the program was "to provide the were invited. Jackson estimated tration procedures to reduce and this project would produce chan­3-5. The three dav event was freshmen with our insight and that about one half to three hopefully knockout delays," a-ges in the nation's court systems 
WELCOME 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's Freshmen 
Interested in Newspaper work 
Stop in at 
THE OBSERVER 
Open House ******
****** 
tonite Jrd floor La Fortune 





Nee A 

' ccording to Dean William 
since, "no gut reform has been The program included Fr. made in this country in this area quarters actually attended. 
Lawless, head of the Notre James Burtchaell, University for the last twenty-five years."
Dame Law School. "In the United States," Law­
Provost, Professor Scott, head of "Why hasn't reform been 
the Black Studies program, AI less said in an interview, "final made?" Lawless asked. "Because decision in a criminal case is
Williams, Urban Studies, Granvil under the IOth amendment the Cleveland, Notre Dame Law police function is left to the
usually obtained within 2 to 5 School, Dave Krashna, SBP, states, and the state and local
years while in England a case is Jackson and others. disposed of within 6 months." governments ahve not respon­Part of the study will attempt ded."
Jackson said one of the 

to ascertain the reas9n for the
problems discussed was dorm speed of England's court system. In England, however, the "­rooms. He said that all the The method of transcribing appeal goes up directly withoutincoming frosh were informed of having a transcript," as the testi­

the trial proceedings in England
the presence of black 
mony of each witness is summar­

and the U.S. was one difference
concentrations during the 
ized. The judge then decides

pointed to by Lawless as a rea­
summer and that all twenty-five whether any miscarriage of pro­

son for the speed of the English cedure occurred which wouldspaces in Alumni and almost all 
system. In the United States, he explained, the entire trial is 
the ~paces in Dillon were now call for a new trial.

filled. !ie also noted that there transcribed exactly. This tran­
arc blacks in nearly all the Lawless cited the poor quality
script must then be printed up
campus dorms this year. of some judges due to political "We were successful in and available for the judge who appointments and contended 
reaching the people who were is going to hear the appeal on that "all the money spent on here and in orienting them to the case.. courts in the U.S. by all the the perspective of the black governments in one year is not 
Lawless added that research­
student," jackson said. equal to the cost of one C 5-A." ers would determine "if the
The Office of Student One specific remedy suggested Af airs sponsored the events speed of the judicial process in by Lawless was having "admini­England is due to the fact that
and provided on-campus housing strative agencies judging cases they have no Bill of Rights." ,
for the students and for parents concerning alcohol, drugs and who had not made off-campus vehicular violations." In support
Lawless disputed the theory that addition of extra judges and 
aaangements. of his recommendation Lawless prosecutors would have a posi­
Jackson said that the pointed to the workmen's com­tive effect in improving the
Afro-American Society plans to pensation board in New York, 
system. "The addition of judges
make this orientation an annual which he claimed handled 
is too often a publication rela­
125,000 cases last year. Lawless tions stop because there is no 
contended that it would take logistical support added." 
years for all the courts in New York stazte to handle a compar­able number of cases. 

Activity Night Monday


CHEST OF DRAWERS? 

The Blue Circle will to learn about each activity sponsor the Notre Dame -available on campus and to gi
BOOKCASE OR RECORD CABINET? 

Saint Mary's Activity Night on ve organizations a chance to
Buy it unpainted-Save 1/2 or More!!! Monday, September 14 be­recruit new emembers. tween 7 and 9 p.m. at Stepan
RUGS! ROOM SIZE· AT BIG SAVINGS!! Center. The purpose of the Organizations can register by 
coming to Stepan Center on

Huge Stock of furniture and rugs right in evening is to permit students 
Monday, September 14 be­tween 2 and 4 p.m. to pay the $5 registration fee and to decorate their table. 
ll'le Observer Is published Chilly during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased fOf' $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Oame Ind., 46556. Second CIIISS postage Nkl, Notre Dame Ind. 46556. 

.---=----------­
OLD FIELD HOUSE 

WELCOI\,lE FRESHI~IEiJ!
NOW! 
Across from the Huddle AND OLD TJr,1ERS!

Saving $$ for ND students since 1948 

N.D. Barbershop firs. 
8:00 a.m. to 4:45


WILLIAM'S 

Sat. 8: a.m. to II :45 
UNPAINTED FURNITURE 

Open 50 doys a week SerFing N.D. men
And N.D. Student Union 

oFer I 00 years 
All types of Haircuts Need a Haircut for Vacation! 
Also at 2609 S. r.1ichigan 288·2181 for Free Delivery 



p 

Open house at LaFortune tonight 
freshmen. Student GovernmentStudent government will hold officers and cabinet members an open house tonight in La­and Student Union officials willFortune Student Center from 7 discuss the functions and ser­to 9 p.m. to talk with interested vices of their departments. 

If you are a 



HOME 
SUBSCRIBER 
YOUR SUBSCRIPTION TO 
THE OBSERVER
Morris Inn to be renovated 

WILL BE EXPIRING SEPTENBER I8 
A major renovation of the Inn, including the restaurant and 
Continuing Education in 1965 ,"

University of Notre Dame's cam­cocktail lounge, would remain 
Father Joyce said. "Five years of 

pus hotel, the Morris Inn, includ­open during the construction 
To Renew 
growth in CCE programs. com­

ing expanded kitchen and dining period, from late September 
bined with the general growth of 

facilities, was announced recent­through March. Mail the form below tu
the campus, and the recent addi­

ly. A major factor in the decision 
tion of the Athletic and Convo­

The improvements, the most to improve the Inn's facilities is Box 11
cation Center, have made it man­

extensive in the 18-year history its relationship to the Center for 
datory to move ahead with ex­

of the hotel, will double both Continuing Education (CCE), Notre Dame
pansion and rcnova tion plans."

kitchen and dining capacity, add said the Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, a cocktail lounge adjacent to the C.S.C., executive vice president restaurant, and involve complete and treasurer of the University. renovatioa of all rooms, corri­The Inn provides housing and dors, private dining facilities and food service for delegates to the main lobby, according to CCE meetings and seminars. !\·tanager John Rash. There will "Improvement of kitchen and be no increase in the number of catering facilities at the Inn were rooms, which will remain at 90, considered at the very time we and Rash emphasized that the were constructing the Center for 
Arrangement reduces number reporting to president 

(Continued from page 1) ber of the Academic Council, the Faculty Senate and Student
Committee, the Building Co-m­Life Council; and member of themittee, the Board in Control of executive committee of the cam­Athletics, and myriad other pus chapter of the Americancommittees . . . He will be ' Association of University Pro­Acting President in the absence fes ;ors. lie was appointed chair­of the President and Provost." 
Juan of the theology departmentFather Burtchaell, 36, is a na­in 1968.

tive of Portland, Oregon, where he attended Columbia Prepara­In other administrative tory School. Ordained a priest in changes, the Rev. James L. the Congregation of the Holy Shilts, C.S.C., assistant professor Cross in 1960, he did his under­pf physics, was named assistant graduate work at Notre Dame in vice president for student affairs, philosophy. He _hplds • .the.oloJN and the Rev. Thomas E. Cham­degrees from Rome's Gregorian bers, C.S.C., rector of Morrissey university and the Catholic Uni­Hall, is the new director of versity of America, and he re­
student residen~~e, replacing the ceived his bachelor's degree and .K.ev. Edgar J. Whelan, C.S.C. licentiate in Sacred Scripture 
The new assignment of the

from the Pontifical Biblical Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., vice
Commission following research Presient for academic affairs
at the Ecole Bibliqe et Archeoli­giq ue Francaise in J etusalem. since 1965, will be announced From 1963 to 1966, he studied later. The Rev. Ferdinand L. at Cambridge University in Eng­Brown, C.S.C., who has been land, earning a Ph.D. in Divinity. 5erving as acting vice president 
He joined the Notre Dame for academic affairs while Father faculty in 1966 and his advance­Walsh is in .. residence at the ment since then has been rapid. University of :-Iawaii's East-West Currently an associate professor, Cen tcr on a Danforth Founda­Father Burtchaell has held hon grant, will become associate 
;>rovost. ~ numerous campus positions, in­cluding director of graduate Bib­

Reprinted from Observer, Fri­

lical studies; chairman of the 
day, September 4, 1970 

faculty library committee; mem-

NO Book Exchange A Service of Student Union Location 
Fiesta Lounge La Fortune Student Center 
Opening to buy used textbooks Thursday Sept. 1 0 (and) Friday Sept 11  10-12 M.1 1-5 PM 10-12 AM 1-5 PM  
For  Further  Information  Call  283-7757  

Kitchen and dining room ex­pansion will be toward the west 

$5. 00 first semester
in an area now occupied by a putting green. The kitchen will 
Dbe completely re-equipped, and the redesigned dining area will be three-tiered and have alcoves 

$8.00 who_le ye.zr
for semi-private meals. Seating will be increased from 95 to 
D 
200. The Inn's cocktail lounge, NAME 

which now seats 40 and is located below the main lobby floor, will be moved adjacent to ADDRESS the new dining room with ser­vice for 75 persons. Private din­
P.S. THE ABOVE FORM CAN BE USED ing facilities will be expanded 
:!:! BY NEW SUBSCRIBERS TOO! !:!: 
and redecorated. 

~::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::: 
You can start in the mail .......
,.._ or IJOU can start on 








executive row. 
Most people say you have to start at the bottom no mat­
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE 
ter how high you want to climb. 
Box A, Dept. SCP-79 Is that really so? Randolph Air Force Base, Texas 78148 Maybe it's a story they tell just to get people to start Please send me more information. at the bottom. Name ________________________ The United St;Jtes Air Force lets you start climbing 
as soon as you get out of Officer Training School. If you 
College-------------------­have a college degree you become highly responsible, 
Graduation Date ____________ Phone_____fast, as an Air Force pilot. 
Address ________________
You become a space-age leader on the Aerospace Team. 
City ______ State _____Zip__ Lots of people start at the bottom. I understand there is no obligation.
We're asking you to start on executive row. 
UMITED STATES AIR FORCE 
l 
I 
PAGE 4 
7118 OBSERIIEit 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
DAVID C. BACH, -Editor GAETANO l\1. De SAPIO. Publisher 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

Year of studies 

;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:;:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:;;;:~:::~:~;~:::::~:::~:::~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:::~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
"The Freshmen Year of Studies is a joke," remarked Michael the Mindless as I met him 
for the first time this year last week in Louie's. 
Michael the Mindless is a returning Senior this year who was once a Freshman -as 
were all Seniors. Notre Dame Freshmen usually becom e Seniors in the long run. Michael 
the Mindless almost didn't make it though. Michael almost transferred to 
Princeton-Columbia-Harvard-Yale University as a lot of Notre Dame Freshmen almost do. 
The Freshm_an Year of Studies was set up in 1958 to try to stop Michael the Mindless 
from transfernng to Stanford-Dartmouth-Cornell-Brown University. The Freshman Year 
says that it has succeeded. Michael claims that it hasn't and even feels that it was one of 
the pnmary reasons that he almost left. 
You see, Michael the Mindless is a scholar, one of the few of them left. He even GJmc 
to college to receive an education; not because of social pressure or to avoid the draft 
:1ichael sp~n~s his time taking academics seriously. That is why they call him Mindless: 
After all, h1s fr~ends say, "who would want to come to a university in this day and age 
~o pursue acadern1cs senously when there is so much else to do. We have our hands full 
J~st try1ng to stop all wars, right al~ wrongs, and keep the university from mistreating the 
hued help and the students. That MIChael he is Just Mindless." 
When Michael was a freshman, the Freshmen Year had him take tests. They wanted to 
know 1t he slept on 111s oac1< or his stomach, and how old he was before he tound out tnat 
he was a boy instead of a girl. Michael thought that it wasn't any of their damn business 
an~ so wh~~ .!t c~~~ time to w:;ite his autobiography Michael told them what he thought. 
Dear S1r. M1chael be~an. I know that your are askmg me all about myself because 
you are mterested m helpmg me. But the problems I have at this moment may look silly 
to m~ te~ years from now. Why must I put them on paper so the computer can keep 
them m h1s pocket from now unt1l eternity. I never liked talking to machines. If you want 
to talk to me alright. Then I'll tell you what I want to. Everything else is none of your 
damn business." 
Michael got ~alled into the Freshmen Year Office soon after that. From the moment 
that he walked_ m he knew that they would make him feel important. As soon as he told 
the secretary h1s name she snuck around the corner to tell all the other secretaries he was 
there. 
"Michael t~e ~indless is here," she announced. "Oh yes," they all nodded. "He's the 
one who d1dn t f1ll out his autobiography RIGHT." 
-~he then came_ back a~d sent Michael directly to Someone Important. "How are you?" 
M1c~ae! asked w1t~ a b1g smlle on his face. "HOW ARE YOU?" Someone Important 
r~phed stanng stra1ght at M1chael as you would if you saw a naked man sitting on the 
s1dewalk at 42nd Street and Broadway in New York. 
"Oh, I'm fine," replied Mike. 
"Are you sure," Someone Important replied. 
"Oh, yes." 
"Are you really sure." 
"Sure, I'm sure." 
Well that was almost the end of the conversation except that Michael was told that he 
would have to come back every two weeks and not once a month like all of his friends The next time Michael came prepared with a real problem. Only as far as Michael~as concerned the problem wasn't with him. It was with Notre Oame. 
"1 don't like it here at Notre Dame," Michael said to his Counseler who had been changed so that one guy wouldn't get all the ulcers. "I think that the courses are too easy, spoon-fed-rehashed-high school mush to be precise. I would like to take another one so I can numb myself into believing that this is really college." 
The counselor just sat there in amazement. How could the courses be that way? Why before the Freshmen Year of Studies was set up freshmen were failing out of school like flys. Hadn't the Freshman Year Office cut the rate to well under the nation's unemployment rate and postponed the rash of dropouts until Sophomore Ye<H when things get a little tougher. "Michael was just Mindless," mused the counselor. 
"Let's see," the counselor said, "According to our computer program you have the capability to achieve a 2.8964 grade point average with the workload you have now. Are you doing that?" 
"I don't know," said Michael, "but I think that I am getting at least all A's and B's." "You can't be," said the counselor. "See if you can do worse and we will talk about it next time." 
Well Michael came back again and again and told them he thought that things were going too well and that the work was not up to college standards. "But how else are we going to get 45% of the Freshman cla'>S with a gradepoint of B or better," rerlie:i the Freshman Year Office. They told Mid:ael to make sure he ate breakfast and got eight hours of sleep and sent him back to get A's and B's so they would have something to talk about the next year at Freshman Orientation 
Michael got another card to report to his counselor 2 weeks later. He never went back again. At semester Michael got his grades: all A's. At registrati~n he went to the Frcshma?, Year desk and asked to take one extra course. "Go down sta1rs and see your counselor, 
Michael was told. 
"I would like to take an extra course," Michael said. 
"Did you get higher than a 3.00," said his counselor sure that Michael hadn't. 
"I got a 4.00," Michael replied as his counselor stared quizically into the air. 
"Well come back tomorrow and we will help you out." 
Michael never came back. In fact he almost left. 
"The Freshman Year of Studies is a joke," Michael the Mindless said. He didn't laugh when he said it. 

Exec. Editor: Dave Stauffer 
Campus Editor: Glen Corso News Editor: Jim Holsinger Asst. News Editor: Ed Ellis 
Feature Editor. T. C. Treanor Sports Editor: Terry Sheilds 
SMC News Editor: Jeanne Layout Design: Mary Chris Mar· Sweeney rison 
Associate Editors: Clifford Win· Layout: Patty Cervelli, Daniel trade, Steve Hoffman, Ann Con· 
v. way Headlines: Pat Geary, Jim Graif 
Night Editor: John Knorr In Memoriam: Peppermint Patty 

Wednesday, September 9, 1970 
Put it right in the dean's office! 


Play ball 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:=:~:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
The summertime revision of the University's administrative structure possesses a history that students should he aware of. Father llesbur~. despite his own protestations over the years, had become overburdened by his dual roles as University president and international man of prominence. Student activists last spring campaigned for a division of the administrative power when they supported Willis Nutting for President of the school, leaving Father 1-Iesburgh, in his proposed role as Chancellor, to fulfill the national and international relations of the administration. 
The question is not whether the position of Provost is a nc:cdcd addition to the administration. From Father Hesburgh on down the concensus is that a redistribution of power was badly needed. 
And the question from this standpoint is not whether Father Burtchaell is the man for the job. An older teacher that I talked to over the summer doubted that the ex-theology chairman was old enough to assume the responsibility, but that. ..well. . .is water over the dam. It is rumored from sources that know that Dean Frederick Crosson wa~ suppost::d to be the new Provost, but turned the position down at the last moment. And when Hesburgh traveled across the seas to sunny Italy to ask the vacationing Burtchaell to take on the job, there is little doubt in my mind that the dapper Biblical schoiar gave some serious thought to staying out of the deep and lonely waters of the administrative ocean. 
David Krashna and Mark Winings, who stayed in the River City 
over the summer, were as surprised as anyone when the new appointments were decreed. And they were not a little put out that they were not consulted about the appointment of the new vice-president for student affairs, Rev. Thomas Blantz. The two student politicos wrote in a controversial letter to Father Hesburgh, which they sent to The South Bend Tribune, that "since our opinions have been precluded from the recent administrative restructuring, the Notre Dame student government does not sec the need of recognizing the position of the administration or the Board of Trustees until such time that both foresaid bodies-recognize the existence of the Notre Dame student body leaders." 
Strong stuff. The administrators are having a hard time getting used to the fact that students demand that their opinions at least be heard concerning people and issues that concern them. And it seems ~shame that Father Blantz, who by all reports is a good man for the JOb, got off to such an unpopular start before he even had his new office door open. 
While it is not my privilege or pos1t1on to comment on Father lies burgh's personality, it was his unfortunate predicament to be a man that wielded great power and bore a heavy burden which probably none of us can appreciate. Now that he has redistributed some of his campus responsibilities to Revs. Burtchaell and Joyce and resigned his positions as representative to the Vatican on the Atomic Energy Commission and h:!ad of the Catholic University Presidents, it is my hope that he will now have more time to, as we say, "screw around." Eating breakfast with the President of the United States and lunch with the Pope might be fun, but with all the hijackings going on it might be smarter to have a Huddleburger with some Notre Dame student~. 

Wednesday, September 9, 1970 


Rumored ND to counter insurgency 
Father Hesburgh (above) and General Frank MacAieer (below) demonstrate some of the decisive activity that is expected to characterize the University's actions. On the other side of the line (super below) radicals call on help from mystic sources to 
Today, the University of Notre Dame du Lac begins in relative quiet its one hundred and twenty-eighth consecutive year as a Great Christian Institution and leader of the Western World in the fields of education, christian community and football. Like her sibling schools, though, the University of our Lady will be constantly on guard against possible violent insurgency. 
According to l!.S. News and Worlu Report, a series of nine guidelines will be used this fall by "one large group of schools." The Observer learned last night from impeachably anonymous sources that this University is a member of this "large group of schools." According to the source, a security force headed by law enforcement pioneer J. Arthur Pears and revolution-hunter and all-around misan lhrope Francis J. MacAleer has been formed to implement the nine guidelines. 
Obsen'er reporter Bass Rumore last night interviewed Mr. MaeAieer on the subjeet of the Seeurity Department's preeautions. Rumore reported that Mr. MaeAleer was "suprisingly loquaeious" and that he was more than willing to diseourse on the subjeet of "keeping God in his 11eaven, and Father Hesburgh and President Krashna in theirs." Hesburgh, known to his followers affeetionately as "Ted the Head," and Krashna, known to his followers affeetionately as "Dave the Rave" were unavailable for eomment, as was God. 
MaeAieer talked about the guidelines, and projeeted for Rumore how the University would operate under. 
"The first question we ask," said MaeAleer, eehoing the previous U.S. News and World Report, is, 'In the event of damage to key administration centers, or if for any reason you are unable to funetion in such ecnters, have alternative centers been designated? Have you made arrangements for their security and emergency communications? What is the ehain or succession of authority if you or your immediate subordinates are unable to function normally or are incommunicado? Do authorized persor possess keys to all alternate centers?"' 
MacAleer closed his eyes eestatically and projected the possible future. "The campus is in ruins. The Golden Dome is Doomed. and, on either side of the eampus, insurgents control both Stepan Center and the Rockne building. In most eases, that would have meant finis for the loyalists." He pronouneed the French word with enthusiasm. "But for us, it is only the beginning. A grim yet confidant voice sounds over my eommunicator: 
'·'Hesburgh here.' 
"I fumble with my communicator, grabbing it quickly enough to respond, "MacAleer! Where are you, Father?' 
"'I'm here at the Huddle, holing up with a Reporter.' Outside I can hear the steady hail of builets, the irregular thump of an exploding Molotov Cocktail. 
"I'm here in the basement of Badin Hall, Alternate XK-80. What's the situation up there?' 
"Quickly, Hesburgh briefs me, interrupted only by the reporter, wanting to know how to spell 'community' and asking if 'Notre Dame Family' was all one word. 
"'Right, I:'ather,' I say, 'Have the keys been distributed?' 
"But just then, l hear the tinkle of glass, and Hesburgh gasps. I know he is mortally wounded. 'Frank,' he gasps, 'you know who to reach.' I blush. It was 
the  first  time  he  has  ever  used  my  
Christian name.  
'"Right,  Father,'  rasp  into  the  

now-ineffective communicator, and I know I must call Father Burtchaell in the Flanncr tov·er penthouse as soon as I get this damn bat out of my hair.'' 
MacAieer glossed over the second checkpoint, "Are your key buildings provided with emergency supplies of water, food, flares, flashlights, batteries, firstaid supplies, blankets, etcetera? Have areas safe from sniper fire been identified and made known to the staff by claiming 
that the stadium was being fortified already?" 
The rotund security ehief quoted U.S. News and World Report's third point "Are members of your staff instructed as to what is cxpeeted of them if they are threatened with weapons, bodily harm, kidnaping, etc.'! Have you prearranged eodes to indicate to outsides (e.g., the poliee) what you really mean by your public.: responses or statements under conditions of threat, seizure, confinement or abduetion?" 
Again he closed his eyes, and again he 
.. 
-~ Q; 
> 
~ 
.Q 
0 
Ql 
s 

unnecessarily.  
~ 0 u  '"Pawn to King's fourth,' the fire chief says.  
ci- "'I have a shoe on my foot." '" I have a hole in mine.'  
0  '"Spiro Agnew's mouth hurts.'  
'"Mantle wears army shoes.'  
"Good," Hesburg sounded satisfied,  
the fire chief likewise. The next minute  
Hesburgh screamed, "The Administration  
building's on fire."  
MacAleer smoothly moved to the  
eighth point, "Have you made  
arrangements with professional people to  
cover critical events or incidents with still  
and motion picture cameras, equipped  
with telephoto lenses, to identify  
participants? Where would they be  
placed? How would they be ')rotected  
from attack? In the event that masks are  
used (by demonstrators) in an attempt to  
avoid identification, have security forces  
been requested to use colored dyes to  
spray participants for later identification  
after arrest?" As he talked the corners of  
MacAleer's face crinkled upward, and one  
could tell that he was thinking of a purple  
Fred Detrich.  
Finally, MacAleer moved to the ninth  
and final point. "Have you provided," he  
quoted, quieried, "for the protection of  
irreplacable documents? Are duplicates  
E  stored at secure points? If works of art or  
0 0  other valuable objects are placed in your  
a:  buildings are key personnel assign.ed to  
remove or protect them in an  
emergency?"  
MacAleer was silent for a while, and  
interviewer Rumore said in his report that  
he feared that the lawman would have no  
Ql s E  further comment. "Have you taken steps?" Rumore asked discreetly.  
0 ~  MacAieer smiled for a second, and then  
answered. "Every picture of Father  
Hesburg shaking hands with Tom  
Dooley," he said, pointing to a huge  
!ether valise locked with a thick padlock,  
"is in there.''  

speculated. "Father Hesburgh is in the 
Morris Inn, hemmed in on four sides. 
of faith in this University and what it Besides him is the ever-faithful reporter 
stands for, to stop this violent carnage and reason with us like rational men.'
microphone in hand. The reporter ask~ for a comment, and he looks to me "In South Bend, the police, listening to appealing. I strain my memory, the~ every word, silently nod to each other. It is time to move in."
quickly jot something down on a piece of eardhoard. Mac Aleer again commented only "Hesburgh glances at the note, and briefly on point four, "Are key members 
then says firmly, "We know that every of your staff, who might have to function 
true Christian rejects violence as a under emergency conditions, provided 
solution to any of our ills. We intend to with proteetion against tear gas? Are your 
negotiate with the students, and I beg seeurity forces familiar with the proper 
those out there who retain some vestige methods of handling Molotov eocktails, fire bombs, etc.:.?" and "Have you provided maps of your buildings and grounds to police, fire, National Guard and other emergency units? Do these show features of critical tactical importanee (tunnels, vantage points, etc.?)" by saying, "It is fairly well knwon that most members of the Adminstration wear nose filters while dealing with the students." As we talked, the seeurity guard, a genial centennian, began to clean his Civil War rifle. In like manner, he tossed off the sixth guideline, "Have you made arrangements to establish emergency medical-aid and first-aid stations and mobile medical units? Can ambulances use alternate routes if normal access is blocked by fire ,and other obstacles?" by merely pointing to the Infirmary, dim yet in the early morning distance, as he talked. But when MacAleer got the seventh point, his eyes lit up and he glowed with the fervor of a dedicated counterrevolutionary. "Ah, yes," he said, "the seventh point." 
"'Have you authorized specific persons to call for police or fire units (to avoid impersonation) and are the names of these persons known to those units? Have code words been devised to prevent impersonation? 
"It is evening, and the South Bend fire chief is playing cards with three of his men. The phone rings, and he answers it. He reeognizes the voice, and his body tenses. 
'This is Hesburgh,' the other voice says, 
r 

By Ed Ellis 
Tim Connors, head of the Student Union book exchange program, announced yesterday the schedule the newly estab­lished co-op would follow dur­ing the next two weeks. 
Connors said that on Thurs­day and Friday of this week in the Fiesta Lounge of the LaFortune Student Center the exchange would accept books from students wishing to sell. A contract will be made be­tween the Student Union and the individual student, with the Union getting 10% com­mission on the price of the book. 
On Saturday and Sunday, take place from Monday to Thursday September 14-17, in the Fiesta Lounge. 
the  Exchange  will  be  closed  
for  the  Union  to  organize for  
the  sale  of  books,  which  will  

From Friday, September 18 to Sunday, September 20, the exchange will be closed for organization, and on the fol­lowing Monday and Tuesday, students may return to claim either their unsold books or 90% of the price of their 
Wednesday, September 9, 1970 

orientation scene 
Although it may appear that the three young maidens on the right are wondering why some scores are 2~~ I and others 0-3, it's just all a part of freshman orientation activities. Included in the agenda were a mixer, picnic, and hall parties. 
books. 

Connors also stated when questioned that the Student Union would assume respon­sibility for books lost or stolen while under contract, and that stringent security procedures would be in effect during the sale. 

New report on effects of crime 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -A task force of the President's Commission on Violence said 


Vilgot Sji:iman's complete and uncut I Am Curious (Yellow) is a "remarkable film (which) has been playing lor a long time to droves of Swedes, and to several million people almost everywhere. It is the story of a young girl who is, or was, curious about politics, nonviolence, Zen, commitment, socialism, other Swedes and, to be sure, sex. It is a serious film with a noble theme, and, in dramatic terms, it is original," says Look magazine. The Evergreen Film presented by Grove Press stars Lena Nyman. A Sandrews Production. ADMISSION RESTRICTED TO ADULTS. 

NOW SH;;WINGll PROOF OF 
AGEOPEN REQUIRED ;EVE. 6:45 

Tuesday tha the nation is mov­ing toward "the modern count­erpart of the fortified medieval city" because of an alarming increase in violent crime. 
The task force also said that if urban crime continues, the inner cities would be largely deserted and sealed off by po­lice at night to protect pror­erties and the tax base. "Any­one on the streets would attract police attention," it said. 
Between 1958 and 1968, the task force noted, the rate of homicides increased 52 per cent, rape 71 per cent, rob­bery 143 per cent and aggravated assault 82 per cent. Most of the increase carne in big cities and among young men, the poor and blacks. 
Historically when political institutions have failed to pro­tect the public, the task force said, " individuals have taken steps to safeguard themselves, their families and their proper-
Student Union Contemporary Arts Festival 

BLUES FESTIVAL 
Friday September 11 Saturday September 12  J.B. Hutte, Otis Rush, Mississippi Fred McDowell ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Lightnin' Hopkins, Houndog Taylor, Junmy 'Fast Fingers' Dawkins •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••  
Stepan Center 8:00  

General Admission $2.00/nite $3.50/both nites Patrons 
$1.00/nite $1.50/ both nite~ 
Patron Cards and Blues Tickets sold in Fiesta Lounge & Dining Halls 
September 9th, 1Oth, 11th 4-() P/1.-1

F 112 
ty. The present period is not different in this respect." 
"If present trends are not positively redirected," the task force said, "we can expect fur­ther social fragmentation of the urb;,m environment, forma­tion of excessively parochial communities, greater segrega­tion of different racial groups and economic classes, imposi­tion of presumptive definitions of criminality on the poor and on racial minorities, a possible resurgence of communal vigil­antism and polarization atti­tudes." 
"It is logi ~.-al to expect the establishment of the 'defense city,' the modern counterpart 
buildings and residential 'com­pounds' will be fortified cells for upper, middle and hihg in­com e populations living at prime locations in the inner city. Suburban neighborhoods, geographically removed from the central city, will be 'safe areas,' protected mainly by racial and economic homogen­ity and by distance from pop­ulation groups with the highest propensities to commit crime. Many parts of central cities will witness frequent and wide­spread crime, perhaps out of police control," the task force said. 
The analysis was made in a I ,644 page staff report to the National Commission on the Causes and Prevention of Vio­lence by the task force on in­dividual acts of violence. 
The task force offered a long list of recommcnda tions, including legalization of mali­juana for adults. "There is no reliable scientific evidence of harmful effects, nor is there evidence of marijuana's being a stepping stone to hard narcot­ics," it said. 

ND Geology Departmment offers environment course 
A Pew course for science majors wishing to apply their expertise to an environmental problem has been launched 
under  the  department  of geo­ 
logy  al  the  University  of  
Notre  Dame, the  Rev.  Michael  

J. Murphy, C.S.C., has an­nounced. 
Called "Environmental Prob­lems," the three credit course is open to all science majors in their junior or senior years. The students will select a problem, read articles appro­pria tc to the subject, do re­search, analyze their results in seminar discussions, and pre­pare a paper describing their findings. 
For instance, Fr. Murphy explained, the students might wish to study pollution of St. Mary's and St. Joseph Lakes on campus, or the pollution of ground water supplies by septic tanks. They would then decide on an appropriate division of labor --for in­stance, the 1Jiologists. might research the effect of pollu­tion on plants and animals, the chemists could measure the amounts of pollutants, and the mathematicians might handle the statistics. 
Fr. Murphy expects .that such a research experience could give undergraduates ideas for graduate study, as well as convincing them the the "relevance" of their sci­ence background in tackling problems of great importance and interest in today's world. 

----~------------------------------" 

Wednesday, September 9,1970 ~
'f11B 

PAGE 7 
Cardinal Cushing resigns post 
BOSTON (UP!) --Pope Paul 

VI yesterday at:t:epted the resig­
nation of Cardinal Rit:hard J. 
Cushing, the Irish immigrant 
blat:ksmith's son who bet:ame a 
Print:e of the Roman Catholit: 
churt:h. 
Bishop Humberto S. Medeiros of Brownsville, Tex., a native of the Portuguese Azores who for­merly served in Fall River and New Bedford, was named to succeed Cushing as Archbishop of Boston · the nation's second largest diot:ese. Chit:ago is the largest. 
"I'm too weak and too old to carry on," said Cushing, who was 75 on Aug. 24. He also referred to his "unt:ertain health." 
The Cardinal, who has served as Archbishop in Boston since 1944, said his retirement "takes effect immediately, as far as my successor is concerned." 
Cushing, who founded the Sot:iety of St. James in 1958 to send priests to the Latin Ameri­can missions, had hoped to retire to the mission fields. But, he said, his poor health has forced him to abandon thos plans. 
Medeiros, 55, served as Chan­cellor of the Fall River Diocese in southeastern Massachusetts before going to Texas in 1966 and also served briefly in New Bedford. 
Sheehan praises selection 
Cardinal Lawrence Sheehan of Bat tim ore praised the selection of Medieros. "It is significant," he said, "that he who by birth is a member of one of the ethnic minorities whose needs and rights have only recently re­ceived the American Church's attention should at this time be chosen for the position of Arch­bishop of Boston to succeed Cushing who himself hus occu­pied so eminent a place in the American church." 
Plan judicial system reform 

(Continued from page 1) as well as student affairs this priontv she stated...Every legislation. "Before it w.as individual has a different life and assumed that the Student should be educated as to her Assembly would just initiate need and not to a set stru~:ture." legislation in the Student Affairs 
channel. Now we have them

Another goad is to developthe educational philosophy at working closely with academic St. Mary's. "The individual must committees. So many issues benefit from her four years." In which ~oncern stud~nt li~e are this realm Miss Tracey hopes to academic _that the onentatwn of
that way. promote speakers in the halls "With the death of Msgr, 
and d~fine the ideology of the McGrath a lot of student 
pass/fat! system. , ' The judicial system will also government plans must be 
rethought and different planscome under reform to promote a must wait until things settle 

greater cooperation and down and someone takes the 
responsibility in the halls. In the area of active student responsibility for dedsions. "l 
don't expect we'll see our goal government, Miss Tracey hopes of promoting a total intellectual to implement the structure and 
atmosphere acomplished this try to tie all the areas, i.e. 

at:ademic and student affairs year. One advantage is that we have sophomores and juniors on student government must change various committees who can 
together. In order to accomplish 
keep their ideas working past

this the student assembly will this year. We'll make mistakes work closely with other but that won't stop us." ' 
committees to initiate academic 
Cushing, who was named a infection," the nature of which Cardinal in 1958 by Pope John was never revealed. XXIII, was a leader in the ecu­menical movement, organizing It was his fourth serious ill­
efforts to bring Catholics closer ness since I 954 when he lost 30 to Protestants and Jews long pounds after surgery and said he before this became official "came ·within a glimpse of Churt:h policy. heaven but I didn't get in, so I 
Through the years, he has came home." been handicapped by a series of illnesses. Earlier this year, 
In 1964, it was revealed the Cushing was hospitalized for 
Cardinal had contracted cancer several weeks with a "resistant 
eight years earlier, requiring the removal of a kidney. At that time, he was given eight months to live. 
A longtime friend of the Ken­nedy family, he presided at John 
F. Kennedy's wedding to Jac­
queline  Bouvier  in  1953,  de­ 
livered  a  prayer  at  Kennedy's  
inauguration  as  President  in  

1961 and helped bury "Dear Jack" when Kennedy was assas­
sinated in 1963. 

Proposed new Judicial Code rejected by Trustees 
By Ed Ellis and "heavily legalistic " was re­jected by the Student Life Coun­cil.
At its summer meeting, the Urda pointed out that thereUniversity Board of Trustees re­now exists no Judicial Code atjected a proposed Judicial Code all. The old code, he said, techni­drawn up by Rev. James Burt­cally holds, but the machinerychaell, C.S.C., then Chairman of for its implementation has beenthe Notre Dame Theology De­dis man tied. Thus all cases arepartment. According to Student referred to the Dean of Stu­
Government Judicial Co­
dents. Urda contends that thisordinator Rick Urda, this was denies the student the right to a
the second failure of Student 
trial by his peers. 

Government and t:1e Administra­
tion to agree on a system to fill Urda said that over the sum­
the "judicial vacuum" created mer, the Krashna administration 
by the dissolving of the old had refused to negotiate with 
University Judicial Code last fall. According to Urda, the ra­tionale for the Trustees' rejec­
PEOPlE NEED PEOPlE 
tion of the Code was ti1at it did 
not afford enough protection for 
OPEN HOUSE
the University in case one of the lower courts in the system should decide in favor of the student. Under the system pro­
for SMC & NO freshmen 
posed by Burtchaell, the student could appeal a case all the way from his Hall Judicial Board to the University President, at each 
The Observer 
step having an option to be tried 
Jrd floor south
by either a board of his peers or a member of the administration. 
La Fortune Student Center The administration would have 
7-9 Pl\1 
no power to appeal a verdict of innocent. 
We need news, feature, and sports writers The Burtchaell Code was 
and layout personnel

written after a YJrevious code described by Urda as ex:tensiv~ the administration on the ques­tion because Krashna felt that the question must be settled in the open forum of the SLC rather than behind closed doors. 
Student Body President Dave Krashna could not be contacted for comment. 
Urda said that he expected the Krashna Administration to have either a compromise on the appeals question or a reaffirma­tion of Eurtchaell's position pre­pared for the first SLC meeting, September 14. The students' position will be presented to the Trustees at their fall meeting. 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Located on the Campus is Ready To Serve You 
"Dependable Quality At Students' Prices" 
Text Books -New & Used Paperback Books School Supplies Drawing Instruments Drawing Supplies Stationery Typewriters Expert Radio & Typewriter repair Cameras & Film Notre Dame Jackets Sportswear Monogram Blankets Toilet Articles Desk Lamps Religious Articles Jewelry & Class Rings Radios & Records 

Typewriters For Rent ­Rental May Apply Toward the Purchase of Your Own Machine 

WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 9, 1970 
Hurting Irish prepare for '70 grind 
After more than a week of "Every coach has to face the two-a-day practice sessions, injury problem each year, but it Notre Dame coach Ara Parse-, seems that some years the situa­ghian is still unable to indicate tion is more critical than others. exactly who will be in the start-You just have to go ahead and ing lineup when the Irish open make plans for switching people the 1970 campaign against North-and getting your best people in western at Evanston, Ill., on Sep-the right spots." tern ber 19. Offensively the backfield pic-
The .primary reason for all the ture has been a sore spot with uncertainty, of course, has been returning fullback Bill Barz hav­the rash of early fall injuries ing missed every practice session which have kept a number of since he reported with a pulled key performers out of conten-hamstring muscle suffered in his tion for starting assignments. personal workouts at home. Clearly, the lack of practice time Andy Huff, a monogram winner for such returning regulars as last year and a sometimes starter backs Bill Barz and Andy Huff, in '69, was shifted to fullback defensive ends Walt Patulski and but has been slowed by minor Bob Neidert, defensive tackle injuries. Denny Allan, the team's Mike Kadish, linebackers Tim leading rusher a year ago, has Kelly and John Raterman and remained healthy for the most first-year tight end Mike Creaney part and despite a slight ham-has delayed Parseghian's time-string pull has been able to work table and seriously the team's out most every day. The other progress. halfback spot is up for grabs and 
"We've spent a good deal of tim{e · the leading contenders have been in our staff meetings just goin juniors Ed Gulyas and Bill Gal­over personnel and attempting t lagher and sophomores Larry fill in the spots where injuries hav Parker and Denny Gutowski. 
left us thin," Parseghian said. The brightest spot, on the 
MAJOR LEAGUES 
NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE 
w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB East 
East Pittsburgh 75 66 .530 Baltimore 89 50 .640 New York 74 66 .528 New York 80 60 .571 9Y.
y. 
67 .525

Chicago 74 Detroit? 73 66 .525 16 *St. Louis 66 74 .471 BY. Boston 72 68 .514 17Y. *Philadelphia64 75 .460 10 Cleveland 67 74 .475 23 
Montreal 60 80 .429 14Y. Washington 65 74 .468 24 
West West 
*Cincinnati 90 52 .654 Minnesota 83 55 .601 
*Los Angeles75 62 .547 12% Oakland 78 62 .557 6 
*San Fran. 72 67 .518 16% California 76 62 .551 7 
*Atlanta 69 70 .496 19% Kansas City 52 86 .377 31 
*Houston 66 73 .475 22% 
Milwaukee 52 87 .374 31Y, *San Diego 53 86 .381 35Y. 
Chicago 49 92 .348 35Y. 

Chicago 10 Pittsburgh 2 
Baltimore at Detroit, night New York beat Montreal 
New York at Washington, night (no score available) 
California at Kansas City, night St. Louis at Philadelphia, night 
Milwaukee at Minnesota, night Atlanta at Los Angeles, night 
Boston at Cleveland, nightHouston at San Diego, night 
Only games scheduled Cincinnati at San Fran., night 
pletion and has accounted for 27 Shields ;:::::::::::::~:~:~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Terry

touchdowns. This season he could surpass the individual Notre Dame total offense mark set by Terry Hanratty in 1968. 
The Irish Eye
A good deal of Theismann's passing success last season, how­ever, must be shared with split end Tom Gatewood, a sure­handed receiver who is closing in In Austin they're proclaiming this as" the Year of the Horns," in on all of Jim Seymour's Irish Columbus however It's "the Year for the Bucks" and no doubt in receiving records. The junior re­every coll~ge town'from University Park, Pa. to sunny LA there is ceiver latched on to 47 tosses for someone who will dispute this self-proclaimed title. 

855 yards and nine touchdowns As college football enters its second hundred years the interest in last year and in a two-game who's No. 1 is running higher and higher. The fight for this highly stretch caught 19 passes for 319 coveted title should be a very wide open affair with an many as nine yards. The Theismann-to­teams rated with a top notch chance of becoming Numero Uno. Gatewood combination has Ohio State is probably the most obvious choice to return to the hooked up for some dramatic throne as National Champions after a year's absence. The Bucks plays thus far in pre-season have Rex Kern, Jack Tatum aJ!d a sophomore class that "Uncle drills. Woody" calls "the best in the school's history." OS U has a 
Prior to the season, the most comparatively easy schedule and the opportunity to return to optimistic outlook centered Pasadena and gain revenge over Michigan should provide enough around the defense with eight incentive for an unbeaten record. The only question is whether 9-0 regulars returning from a unit will be good enough to influence the pollsters. that permitted opponents an Defending National Champion Texas faces a difficult slate this average of only 85 yards rushing year hut the Longhorns do have sixteen starters back from the per game last year. The outlook Cotton Bowl title holders. Most notable of these returnees arc has been somewhat dimmed, fullback Steve Worster and halfback Jim Bertelsen. These two should however, with injuries to defen­provide Darrell Royal with enough"O" to make the Longhorns a sive ends Bob Neidert, Fred gia11l among hig-time teams again. Swendsen and Walt Patulski, an Penn State hasn't lost a game in many moons (30 games) but once outstanding performer in his again their patsy schedule will hurt their chances for top honors. sophomore season a year ago. Only a collapse of the other top teams would put Joe Paterno's boys Patulski suffered a dislocated in the primary place. shoulder in the Cotton Bowl A surprise team this season could be the West Virginia game and underwent surgery last Mountaineers. WV U puts everything it has built on the line Oct. 31 spring. He has missed several when it collides with Prnn State. A victory here could vault the days of drills because of the Morgantown team into national prominence. weakened shoulder. The biggest In Oxford, Mississippi folks say that there is absolutely no mortal blow to the front four came last that can perform on a foot ball field like Elijah Archie Manning. 
Some people feel that he alone will be enough to cope No. I for the other hand, remains at the quar­terback position where Joe Theismann continues to sparkle with his passing and running, and his scrambling and gambling tactics. In the thirteen regular season games in which he has directed the Irish Notre Dame has been on the losing end just once, won ten games and tied two more, both against powerful Southern California. Theismann enters the 1970 season with some other imposing credentials. For instance, he has logged 2,898 yards in total offense, completed I 52 passes in 268 attempts for a 57 per cent com­week when tackle Mike Kadish suffered a partially-torn knee ligament forcing him out of ac­tion indefinitely. His spot has been filled with reserve Mike Zikas with John Kondrk moving over from the offense to supply some depth. 
The linebacker corps has also been plagued with injuries Wi.h returning regular John Raterman shelved indefinitely with a knee injury and co-captain Tim Kelly sidelined for eight practice days with a severe hamstring injury. Sophomore Jim Musuraca has been inserted in Kelly's spot while junior l Rich Thomann has taken over for Raterman. Three of the four linebackers on the second unit are sophomores, a fact that has the Irish coaching staff concerned about any fur­
ther front-line casualties. 

The defensive secondary is rather well equipped with ex­perience and potential. All­America candidate Clarence Ellis and Ralph Stepaniak have per­formed as expected while Mike Crotty has switched over from offense to man the safety posi­tion. 

Rebels. However, a tough SEC schedule should halt the pouring of mint juleps at Ole Miss. 
Michigan should be the top challenger of mighty Ohio State in the Big Ten as well as for nation-wide acclaim. The "year after Rose Bowl let down" and their "Big game" at Columbus should spell
WE'RE ALL 

doom for the Wolverines when the season comes to a close. Two west coast teams should cause some stirring in the Top Ten.
NEW! (almost) 

Jim Plunkett may not be as highly publicized as Archie Manning but his aldity is definitely comparable. Plunkett should guide his Stanford team to a grudge match with USC on Oct. 10. The winner of that blood bath has to be considered a worthy candidate for the national title. 
John McKay once again has a huge talent pool to draw from at
Our stocks are new and contain 

Troy and his charges may be offended about the way they were
apparel in the style, color and price you 

oeverlooked by the polls last season. They were given little credit for 
want. Our store is new ... we've painted and 
a rem arka hie season considering their schedule and the
decorated in a new and attractive manner. 

results. Another familiar name to the Top Ten has lost a
Some things are not new ... our staff 

quarterback and coach but many fine athletes will be hack. Purdue's
is comprised of many of the old familiar faces. 
Boilermakers always start strong but a very difficult schedule makes 
(we can't improve on them). Our terms can't be 
till' national championship out of reach. Of course no pre-season
improved on either: 

fore~:ast would he complete without mentioning Notre Dame. The 
buy now, pay next January, February 

Irish have the schedule and the talent to spell National
and March with no service charges of any kind. 
Chumpionship if they ~:an utilize a bit nf their famed luck (Ara would wonder just where this luck has been for the past three seasons.) 
The Irish Evey Top Ten does not actually mean that this is how the final polls should appear (the s~:heduling alone would make it contradidory) but it is a rating of relative strengths of teams at this point. ll reads: 
I. Ohio State 6 Penn State 
2. 
Notre Dame 7. Mississippi 

3. 
Southern California 8. Michigan 

4. 
Texas 9. Purdue 


S. Stanford I 0. West Virginia 




