

-------------~~-----------------------.~~~~:iV7,;:~~:;~~i~J,;r1M~~·;(r~/~l~~('~~~~·l!V------------------~M~o~n~d~a~y, December 7, 1970
Vol V., No. 5 1 Servfnu0 the Notre Dame and Saint .ary s ~..o ege ommum~v 
Registration confusion explained 
By Joe-McKerns and John Powers 
The backlog and long lines on the first morning of regsitration last week seened to occur be­cause of confusion and ambigui­ty over registration procedure, accorc\ing to Asst. Provost and University Registrar Leo M. Cor­baci. The elimination of class au­thorization slips apparently led many students to register at their departments for checkmark courses with their Form 50 cards already signed by advisors, rather than request check mark courses from the respective de­partments and then have the Form 50 (class sectioning form) signed by their advisor. 
Corbaci said that there "weren't any changes in pro­cedure, just a change in form." He claimed that the elimination of class authorization slips would cut down on paper work. According to the instructions for Advance Registration Procedure, students were to consult their advisors, fill out th~ Form 50, and request check mark courses from the proper department. Upon approval of a student's re­quest of a check mark course, he would receive a prepunched class card for each check mark course. He would then take the Form 50 back to. ~is advisor and have it signed. His last step would be to take his Form 50 and_ class schedule cards to the class sched­.ule room which is designated on the Form 50, mark sense the cards, turn in the Form 50, and start studying for finals. 
Corbaci said the department heads chose to hand out the class cards on their own, "with­out any authorization." He said he is investigating why there were such long lines and waits on the first morning of registra­tion, Thursday, December 3. The Philosophy and English De­partments had particularly long lines of students, with many waiting for two hours or more. 
Professor James E. Robinson of the English Department said that the new procedures were "a little ambiguous." He refused to comment, except to say: "I was a little surprised at what happen­ed." 
"We were really surprised to hear so many complaints about the new registration procedure", said Assocaite Registrar Richard 
J. Sullivan, Friday. "This new 
way is set up to simplify things." · Sullivan said he was more than aware of the chaos in O'­Shaughnessey Hall during the first two days of spring registra­tion. He said that the greatest area of confusion was in the regi­
-~.. 

Estabrook releases dismissal statement 
Mr. Carl Estabrook, Instructor in the History Department, released the following statement to the Observer concerning his dismissal. 
Three weeks ago I was fired from my position as instructor in the Department of History at the University of Notre Dame. In that tirr.e I have not spoken publicly on the matter because a number of good people were attempting to intercede for me. Their efforts have done all they possibly could, and now I think that it is necessary to say to my brothers and sisters in this academic community what I feel is happening in this university and others. 
I believe that I have been fired because a majority of the dozen or so tenured members of the NO history department feel that my political opinions have no place in the university. In dismissing me my senior colleagues are not necessarily expressing a personal antipathy toward me. The matter cannot fruitfully be discussed on a personal level at all. The NO history department is merely expressing a position that is rapidly becoming the rule on American campuses: anyone who is allied with "radical" political causes -most especially those that question the social role and internal order of the university -is not to be allowed to remain within the universities as they are now consituted. Because of the present severe job shortage in US universities, a department can buy a tame teacher as easily as it can buy an uppity one. 
It seems to me though that the present wave of firings of "radicals" from universities across the country should pose several questions to those of us who remain university people: 
I) Are the universities' official descriptions of themselves (e.g. "an open society, dedicated to the discussion fo all issues of importance") correct, or are they merely smokescreens for the roles that the universities actually perform in society? 
2) For whose purposes are the universities run? Who profits from the university as it is now constituted? Students and teachers? Or the outside constituencies represented on the board of trustees? 
If you think, as I do, that these questions are raised by recent events here and elsewhere, and if you agree with me that the answers are horribly unsatisfa~tory -students, teachers, workers -to change these institutions so that they serve and do not exploit the people caught up within them and so that they serve the society at large rather than special interests within it. How to do that effectively is the last and most important question. 
Carl Estabrook, Jr. 1970, Dec. 2 
stration for Philosophy and The­ology cht~ck mark courses. Sul­livan said th~ qccurre.d peca1,1se the two departments have to handle su,ch a large number of students, other than their ma­
jors, as compared to other departments. 
"The n~ason for the large lines for Philosophy and. Theology check mark courses was", said Mr. Sullivan, "because students, unsure o:f the new procedure, were afraid they wouldn't get the coumes they wanted and everyone rushed to be there first." As a result of this most stu_dents didn't get the courses they wanted and had to settle 

S1~udent 
.for seco11d or third choices. 
When asked why there were so many more check mark courses this semester than be­fore, Sullivan said that the in­creased amount ot check mark courses along with the new pro­cedure of issuing the pre-pun­ched cards at class registration time was designated to improve the section balancing problem that has always arisen with the old class authorization forms, and also to eliminate the old registration day "blues" on Jan­uary 19 when students get their class schedules and discover tnat they've been "screwed" out of the classes they signed up for. 

Sullivan was asked if he thought th~re was any way to 
clear up some of the confusion. He answerl'd by saying he felt the worse part was over since registration was very heavy the first two days because of the rush, and that by the end of the 
week the people registering students will probably be twit­tling their thumbs. In the future he recommends the other de­partments follow Dr. Ronald Weber, Chairman of the Com­munication Arts Department, who held an advance scheduling of majors. 
members chosen 


for Academic council 
Seven Notre Dame students have been chosen to provide the first student representation on the University's highest aca­demic policy-making body, the Academic Council. 
The students are Edward F. McCartin, a senior, representing the College of Arts ·and-Letters; John M. Donahue, a junior, the College of Business Administra­tion; Thomas L. Schaaf, a senior in the College of Engineering; Thomas S. Kenny, a senior in the Colle~:e of Science; Frank C. Palopoli, representing the Graduate School; and J. Michael Keefer, a law student, represent­ing the professional programs in 
., 
law and business administration­William C.Wilka, a junior and academic commissioner of Notre Dame's student government, is an ex-officio member of the Council. 
The Council, formerly com­posed of faculty and administra­tors, now has a membership of 65. 
The new members that were able to be contacted expressed optimism over their appoint­
ment. -
Wilka, one of the hardest workers for students representa­tion on the Council, said that he 
hopes people appreciate the accomplishment of the students 



Distribution begun on Mardi Gras 
involved. "Next to the Board of Trustees," he said, "the Counc_il is the highest governing body on campus -higher than the SLC." 
He also noted that the Council meeting this Thursday, the proposed termination of the Computer Science department will be considered. He hoped students would express their opinions on the issue through their respective colleges. 
McCartin said he was excited to be on the Council. He felt that the introduction of students on the Council would make it a more open and representative bodv. 
On the subject of the Compu­ter Science program, McCartin said that it should be considered as a course but not as a major. He commented: "It has a valu­able service in various fields, but 
I don't think people should major in it." He said the Computer Science was more for a data-processing school rather than a university. 
Keefer was unsure of the stu· dents' importance on the Coun­cil, but was hopeful they would 
be  a  significant  factor  on  the  
body.  Keefer  also said he  was  
undecided  on  terminating  the  
Computer Science program.  

By Jerry ILutkus 
Distribution for the annual Mardi Gras raffle will begin this week for the on campus students of Notre Dame and St. Mary's. According to the raffle chairman this year, Gerry Roethel, "the hall presidents and section lead­ers have cooperated wonderfully 
so far in their efforts to 
distribute  the  raffle  packets  
which  contain  some  general  
information  on  Mardi  Gras  in  

addition to the raffle books themselves." 
The proceeds from Mardi Gras each year go into the Notre Dame Charities which in turn distribute1; the money to charita­ble organizations which apply for funds. Many organizations in which Notre Dame-SMC stu­
dents are involved receive some of the profits. 
Profits each year are also realized to a smaller extent from the Carnival and the concert. General Chairman of Mardi Gras '71 , Greg Stepic had this to add about the raffle. "Each year for the past several years interest in the raffle has been dwindling. We have tried to make the incentive prizes as attractive as pos&ible so that one's efforts will not go entirely unrewarded ma­terially speaking, however we would hope the students realize the potential of this raffle with just a small effort on everyone's part, speaking in terms of money for charity. Without the raffle we couldn't even hope to realize 
profits of years past'. Without the raffle the purpose for which Mardi Gras was founded could not be met and hence the entire Mardi Gras weekend would be in jeopardy." 

Publicity chairman for Mardi Gras '71, Lawrence Burns, commented on the incentive prizes available for top selling students. "Cash prizes will be available for the top sellers on campus with the top ND seller receiving $500. Top SMC seller will receive· $250. Incentive prizes for the halls will also be awarded in an effort to instill some hall competition. The hall selling the most raffl.e books per capita will receive $500. Top hall salesman will receive cash awards of $50." Larry com­
(Continued on page 8) 

--------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Page 2 711E O&rERJIBit Monday, December 7, 1970 

New constitution changes H PC 
By Steve Lazar 
The Hall President's Council, a somewhat unsure and inno­cuous body when first formed two and a half years ago, is on the verge of a metamorphosis that would make it the chief· 
representative  organ  of  the  
Notre  Dame  student  govern­ 
ment.  

DRAFTING TA.l;:LE: FOR SALE 
~w-(usea only :l. months); Art student dropped out; Adjustable top; All wood; 36" x 42"; 
T-S~ctuares. 
Mrs. Colt 288-1728 735 East ·Ewings, So. Bend 
KEPLER MOTOR SALES 
C•rsSH to $3111 
All cars sold with _ lifetime war:renty.... Top prices paid for used cars' 
2306 Westtm Ave. Ph. -1~8-3250 ._ 
This transformation, if it is permitted to take place, will occur on Wednesday, Dec. 9, when the student body votes on the new constitution drawn up by SBP David Krashna and other student administrators. The pro­posed constitution, in effect, dissolves the student senate and creates a new and more powerful body, the President's Council, which will be composed of the 
hall  presidents  and  will  be  
chaired by the SBP.  
The  new  constitution  has  

· caused a significant amount of controversy on campus, especial­ly among the senators whose offices would be abolished, but for many of the hall presidents it seems to outline the most natural course to take when try­ing to eliminate dillydallying and make student government a streamlined and action-oriented service to the students. That the hall presidents are the most natural representatives of the students and the ones most capable of "getting things done" has long been advocated by some student leaders and was in fact the major stand taken by Dave Krashna and Mark Winings 
The Cultural Arts Commission 
presents 

Bl.OW UP 
DI~C. 8 & 9 7:30 & 9:30 Engineering Auditorium General Admission $1.00 
in their election campaign of last spring. 
Former president of Keenan Hall and one-time Executive Coordinator of the HPC, Tim Mahoney, maintains that the hall presidents would be more com­petent at determining the annual t::~dget allocations made by stu­deJ;' government than are the sen.tturs who currently handle 
OBSERVER INSIGHT 
that task. Mahoney feels that the hall presidents have a greater understanding of money than do the senators because they con­tinually have to work with cur­rency in significant amounts, whereas most of the senators are unfamiliar with the real opera­
tions of institutionalized spend­
ing. 
Mahoney argued, too, that the presidents would be truer repre­sentatives of the students because they are forced by the necessity of their office to justi-· fy themselves to their section leaders and respective hall membe.rs, whereas the senators often seem to act as if their responsibility was to certain factions within the senate itself rather than to their hall mem­bers. 
On one point, however, the capabilities of the presidents have been seriously questioned, both by the senators and the presidents themselves. The issue here is whether the presidents will have enough time to handle the duties of the President's Council as well as their responsi­bilities inside the halls. Mahoney thinks the presidents will defin­
concerned and determined type 
of individual necessary for such 
a role. The hall presidents, he 
argued, have historically been of 
that stature. 
Throughout its short history, 
the Hall President's Council has 
shown itself to be the type of 
organization more concerned 
with accomplishing things than 
with indulging in any delusions 
of power. It's constitution speci­
fically states that it is not a legis­
lative nor a "political" body. 
One of the more interesting facts about the HPC is that in its early days it was often unsure of exactly how much power it had. Although it was reluctant to increase its own power it soon found that its position as coor­dinator of interhall activities brought with it much power that it had not prepared to deal with. An unwritten norm developed stating that the presidents were not power-minded in the pejora­tive sense, but to the contrary, 
were concerned only with "get­
ting their job done."· 
Former member Mahoney found the most remarkable thing about the Council to be its "let's get the work done and go" atti­tude that has permitted quick and decisive action in the area of hall life. 
To its credit, the HPC has been a major force in getting parietal hours approved and in establishing the important principle of hall autonomy. In the recent past it has sponsored the annual spring event An Tos­tal, and has controlled an impor­tant part of Homecoming, Mardi Gras and Freshman Orientation. In effect, the hall presidents have taken a good part of the Chairman of the HPC John Barkett. "The presidents are familiar with the life that goes on in the halls and they realize what's best for the students," he said. 

The obvious consideration that should determine the out­come of the constitutional refer­endum on Wednesday is "what really is best for the students?" The new constitution gives the President's Council essentially the same powers as the senate now has-the power to budget, the power to set up programs, the power to propose legislation to the SLC, the power to con­firm executive appointments, and the power to impeach. What will be gained if the constitution is approved, says John Barkett, is that the functions of the Presi­dent's Council will be the same 

HPC Chairman John Barkett as those of both the senate and the HPC combined, and that in addition, the members of the body "will at least have a com­mon interest." "The key to the whole thing is personneL If you have good people you'll get things done," closed Barkett. 
On the assumption that the referendum will pass, the former HPC leader Mahoney feels that 
the new constitution and specif­ically the President's Council should be critically evaluated in one ear. 
itely be able to fulfill both func­tions, although he admits that perhaps a "new breed" of hall president will be needed. He said he is convinced that the student bo_~ ..\Vill be able to supply the 
. control of student physical and social life away from the once firm hands of the hall rectors. 
"It just shows you they're important people because they get the work done," says current 


Going Home for C:uistmas 
Student Union 
BUS SALES TO O'HARE 
Leaves: Thurs.-Dec. 17 ut 4·:30 p.m. Fri. -Dec. 18 at 4:30p.m. Sat. -Dec. 19 at '1:30 p.m. 
Returns: fJlon, January 18 from 0 'Hc;re (boards in front of restaurant at lower end of United terminal)-8:00 and 'iO:OO p.m. 
Buses leave SMC Holy Cross Hal/15 minutes later 
$5.00 ONE WAY 
Sales at First Bank Travel Bureau (ground floor of Badin Hall)-9 :·00-12:00 noon -I :00-4:30 daily 
ALL SALES FINAL 
atest rn Bells, Body-shirts, un-suits, vests 
Posters & Things
Man oes notstarve 



for bread alone 

Bread can replace the ache in a man's stomacn. ­ON· THE MALL

Compassion can replace the ache in a man's heart. 

HOPPING CENTRE (Mishawaka)
People are starving. For bread. For compaSSIOn. 

,----H;;,-St;;;;;-
..--,.
And they must be fed. With food. With compassion. With farmers. With missioners. 

f f
for ND men the Continental Way
Maryknolll Fathers and Brothers, Maryknoll, N.Y. 10545 c 

f Razor Cutting 3t Style f Please send me information about becoming a Maryknoll 
f European Layer Shaping for Long Hair f D Priest D Brother D Sister 
A Have Long Hair & Let Miss Treva & The Baron A ' Be Well Groomed Serve & Pamper You '
NAME ·--------_,._....GE_CLASS__ 
f 306 S'ler!and Bldg. 
I


ADDRESS,_________________________ 
f South Bend, Ind.

f 234-0811 • Stude11t Ril.tes f By Appt.
c~.ITY~~~:=============S~T~AT~E~==~Z~IP~=====----1

--·--·­
&.-.~~~ .....~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Monday, December 7, 1970 



Insurance plan for ~GSU 

By John Gallogly which are often much greater than undergraduates. A poll of
Last Friday, the Notre Dame about one-half of the families
Graduate Student Union met for 
living in the graduate "village"the last time this semester and decided on a new insurance 

indicates between 50 and 75% of package for graduate students 
the graduates favor the plan. The and their families and a resolu­
insurance package will also be tion to dea1 with the rumored made available to other schools, abolishing of the Computer because the more who partici­Science Department. pate, the lower the rates. The 
The insurance package, the plan is basically designed to keep first of its kind in the country, is an accident from wiping out a 
to be known as the "Notre graduate student. It will allow Dame Graduate Student Union them to continue their schooling Insurance Plan,'' and will cover despite a possible calamity. 
three kinds of insurance-life, Next on the agenda was the health and auto. It will be speci­controversial issue of a fically designed to meet the resolution asking for an open needs of graduate students, hearin.&_ as to why the Dept. of 
Course continued at SMC 
Through a gift of a member of the board of trustees, a third lec­ture series will be offered on "Trends in Contemporary Edu­cation, Ed.3 73," for one semes­ter hour credit on a 'pass/fail ba­sis. 
Requirements for the series include pre-registration, a mini­mum attendance of 10 of 13 lec­tures, a list of names of the lec­tures and lecturers to be submit­ted at the end of the semester, and a questionairre to be filled out also at the end of the semes­ter to evaluate the nature of the lectures. 
Ten lectures followed by audience participation are sched­uled for Wednesday evenings, 7:30p.m., in Carroll Hall. 
The lectures in general, cover many disciplines and all the lec­tures are recommended by de­partment chairmen in consulta­tion witli 'fac'plty members or requests 'of S:tud.ents. 
Some of the speakers and their topics pf . discussion in­clude: Dr. Urban Fleege, on The Key to Developing a Child's Self-Image; Dr. Nathan Wright; Dr. David Bakan, on Youth as Citizens in the Crisis; A panel on "Women in Science"; Andre Watts; Terry Doran on Two Lives: the Story of a Teacher; James C. Bostain, Read Your Neighbor; Dr. Phillip Vairo, In­novative A_EProaches to In­ner-city Education; Dr. William Frascella, Mathematics; Art, Science or Power; Dr. and Mrs. 
E. Levison, Urban Politics and Community Control in Educational Change; Wallace Peterson. Inequality in Income and Wealth in the U.S' 
(continued on page 6) 
Computer Science is to be dis­banded. Opponents to the GSU action said that because there is no graduate department in this area, theGSU had no right to question the decision. They also said that any graduate students who had to take courses in this 
general  field  for  their  degrees  
would  be permitted  to  despite  
the  disbanding  of  the  depart­ 
ment.  

The supporters of the resolu­tion, however, disagreed. 
Bill Lorimer, GSU head, said, "This is sadly typical of the way the administration acts. Too much is done here unilaterally. How decisions are made in this closed and secretive fashion is an important consideration of ours." 
At the meeting, Lorimer read what he said was a memorandum from Dr. R.E. Gordon, of the Biology Department, who oppos1:d University action in the case. The statement read, in part, "We have no way of telling how the Academic Council will react to the Administration's proposal that the Computer Science Department be elimina­ted." 



CASTS THE BIG SHADOW 
Ford's Pinto is priced and sized like the little imports, but has more room inside. Now you can have your economy and enjoy it, too. 


THREE DOG NIGHT

DS-50088 

"NATURALLY" A contemporary wonder, Three Dog Night's string of gold records rivals Fort Knox. Coming right off the top of all trade charts 'Nith a hit single, Three Dog has another sure­fire goldie with this album. What more can we say?
CHICAGO 

715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TE)..: (312) 944-7500 · Zl P: 60611 CREEPIN' 
Sales tax where applicable 
ONE MAN BAND 


during the college semester exceptvacations by the students of the University of Notre O.me •nd St. M•rv's College. SubScriptions m•v be pun:lul•d for $8 from The Ob­server, Box 11, Notre O.me, Ind. 46556. second c:laa POI!t..,. ,_ld, Nqtre o.me, Ind. 46556. 
Hit Records elf N.D. Bookstore 

Page 4 
Monday, December 7, 1970 
THE OBSERVER 
An lnd1111 ..... ltudlftt Ne 1111111* 

GLEN S. CORSO, Editor-in<blef JOHN E. KNORR. Executive Edhor BRUCE RIECK, Business Manap NOTRE DAME, INDIMA 


Your turn, Dr. DeSantis 
Mr. Estabrook has made some serious charges against the history department and the department's current mute silence is no longer an adequate response. The refusal to renew the contracts of Mr. Estabrook and two other seemingly qualified instructors is an act not without some political implications, and the ..department's terse and incomplete answers have sent men to necessary speculation. 
Was Estabrook fired because he was a poor teacher? On the contrary, everything indicates that Estabrook was an excellent teacher. He kept his personal politics out of the classroom, his lectures were penetrating, informative, and interesting; he demonstrated a continuing interest· in his students (to the point of inviting them to an informal discussion in-his home Monday nights); students of all political hues found him insightful, precise, and damn good. If it was the conclusion of the senior faculty members that Estabrook was not a good teacher, it was surely a lonely conclusion, 
Was Estabrook fired, as he suggests, for political reasons? If that is true, then the Department has done a most shameful thing. If that is true, then the Department is in violation of the prime tenants of not only Academic Freedom, but political freedom as well. If Estabrook's firing is justified because he is a radical, then could not another man be fired because he was a pacifist, or a black militant, or, for that matter, a democrat? 
Was Estabrook fired because of the University's economic problems? If the University is going to cut down, they have cut down in the wrong place, and the place least consistent with the expressed ideals of the Unviversitv. Last year, Vice-President of Academic Affairs Rev. John Walshe warned tbt Liberal Arts would be this University's highest priority. This year, Father Burtchaell has contended that students lack a historical perspective into current issues. Father Hesburgh has said that Notre Dame must encourage teaching, even more than research, within its faculties. Estabrook is a historian in liberal arts who is far better known for his teaching than for his research. His dismissal is a grotesque parody of the messages of those three learned men and high administration officials. 
Could there be another reason? Perhaps. But the Department's silence ends speculation there. Department head, Professor Vincent DeSantis will have to rise above trivia and points of order and answer the questions and charges raised by the dismissals and by Estabrook's charges. What is the University's direction ? What will be the department's approach to the personal politics of its members? What do the moves mean for the student? What do they mean for the future? 
The time for secrecy is over. Estabrook has made his charges clear, and has spoken out publicly. It's your turn, Dr. DeSantis. People are waiting to hear you. People -especially history majors, most vulnerable in this move ­want to hear you. Speak. 


THE 3:00 CLUB 
I 
Managing Editor: Bill Carter Editorial Page Editor: T.C. Treanor 
Features Editor: Dave Lammers Sports Editor: Terry Shields SMC News Editor:Jeanne Sweeney Associate Editors: Davl! Stauffer 
Sue Bury Night Editor: Don Ruane Layout: Joe Abell Headlines: Tim Burke Night Controller: R. Smith 

rr~-b~~i--------1 
t I'
I Suicide is Painless 
t ' 
t ' 
tAmong the forces marshalling behind the New Constitution two ' widely divergent groups can be discerned. Though they have come together on this issue they can be separated easily by a simple prism. Tack on to the proposed new Constitution a "rider" to the effect that not only would the Student Senate be abolished, but the SBP, SBVP, Cabinet, Student Union and the entire Executive branch as well. 
One group would suffer immediate cardiac arrest staying out of a coma long enough to scream" No, no, No-o-o." The other category will respond like the proposal was the greatest thing since the wheel was invented. The former group consists of those students who favor the institution of Krashna's Presidents' Council. The latter group favors the abolition of the Student Senate. 
The difference is extremely important. One group supports the new Constitution because they hope it will improve Student Government. The other group supports the Constitution because they consider it the first step in the eventual abolition of all student government. The two groups are really direct opposites. The first group, the pro-Student Government group, one can respect though they are out of their tree on the issue of the Senate. It is the other category of Students, however, that deserves to be examined in detail. 
Student Government Haters, a fitting title for this collection of misanthrops, should not be confused with the Absolute Apathetics. The true Absolute Apathetic doesn't care at all about Student 
Government, and will live up to his reputation by not voting at all next Wednesday. While the Student Government Haters are often m effect apathetic, their most distinctive quality is cynicism, the ultra-sophisticated, suave cynicism that has been in style since WW 
II. There are numerous active tactics that distinguishes the dedicated Student Government Hater: running on Joke Tickets for oftices. voting "no" in elections, threatening to exclude their student government fees from tuition, and, of course, voting for the new Constitution. What they say is another good way to recognize this species of reptile. To them every student government leader is stupid, incompetant, dishonest, vain, ridiculous, an orifice, full of defecation, or some combination of these traits. , When the pro-Student Government group yells, "The Senate is a 
Joke," the Student Government Hater agrees, for it is only part of the Student Government Haters' Litany: "Student Government is a joke, Student Senate is a joke, SBP is a joke, SLC is a joke ..."If the new Constitution is passed, they will swiftly add, "The Presidents' Council is a joke." Another standard tactic is to ask a candidate, "Oh, come off it. What really can student government do for the students'!" If one gives him an intelligent list, he scowls in blatant sarcasm, "Be real," and proceeds like a scratched record "Student government is a joke." ' 
If he is asked why student government is a joke, the Student Government Hater starts laying on the sophisticational HE is too smart, too experienced, too omniscient to have any faith in humanity. He starts making Diogenes look like an optimist. Ridicule is his version of logic. After a while, his position becomes evident: to the Student Government Hater the Assinity of student government is an a priori axiom, an absolute law of nature, obvious to any sophisticated realistic savant. 
There are, however, interesting subspecies of this rodent. One is the Self Destruct Theorist. He envisions the purpose of Student Government as the abolition of all regulations imposed on students by the administration or Faculty. Since most of these rules have now been lifted, the Self Destruct Theorist feels that Student 
Government, like a Mission Impossible tape having completed its task, should immediately eliminate itself. The destruction of the Student Government is especially important to him for he fears that Student Government might itself impose rules on him, and that would be horrible. Some Self Destruct Theorists are in favor of the SLC just in case the Administration tries to say he can't axe murder his roommate. 
Another type of Student Government Hater is the Social Goodies Theorist. His variation of the "Student government is a joke" theme is that the only real function of student Government is Student Union. He would allow the Student Union to exist but would eliminate all other forms of student self rule. 
The basic strategy of most Student Government Haters is the Domino Theory. Their version of it is that the easiest way to get rid of student government is piece by piece. Like an Edysiast, they start with the most trivial aspects and work their way down to the nitty-gritty of student government. The Student Senate is a good start; then class government, SBVP, take a breather, then start in on the SLC, the Cabinet, Student Union, and, of course, the SBP. Another favorite tactic is the "Hall autonomy diversion" which lures campus wide student government into destroying itself for the sake of bringing student government back to the halls. From there the Student Governemnt Hater is confident that a determined human wave of apathy will overwhelm in due time any effective hall 
government. 

The new Constitution is what the Student Government Haters have been waiting patiently for. Unknowingly sincere individuals have provided this human fugus with its big opportunity. There is a tale of a Doctor Frankenstein who created something he couldn't control. Beware Dave and Mark, you may be next. Octavian and Marc Anthony were once allies. 
Tl.lB O&rERUER.

Monday, December 7, 1970 Page 
Rlclr Slllltll 
Interview with Carl Estabrook 
Q. What was involved in the firings of Prof. Williams, Prof. Matthiesen, and yourself? A. The first point to be made is that the action of the History Depart­ment involved some spearate decisions. In some cases, tenure decisions were made, which means that it was decided whether or not to make permanent the appoint­ments of people who had been here for about five years. 
In my case, there was no tenure deci­sion since this is my second year at Notre Dame. I was simply told that my contract would not be renewed for the third year. 
A standard appointment here is three years. Since my dissertation was not completed when I came to Notre Dame, I was given a one year contract. This is not all unusual in this department or else­where in the University. The department has not suggested or said that this was the reason for my firing, although it has been hinted in some corners. The real reason I think, was political. 
Q. What do you think are the implica­tions of this action for the University of Notre Dame? A. I think that the implica­tion goes beyond the University of Notre Dame. I think that the implication is that in· a declining market for academic people, universities in general are purging themselves of what they feel to be dis-­turbing elements. I apparently have been denominated as a disturbing element at Notre Dame. I am honored. 
Q. How, in your opinion, does this action affect the traditional concept of the University? A. [ think that what the firings like this in general around the country show is the nature of the univer­sity -what purposes the university, in fact, serves. The university presents itself as being the arena for free and open dis­course. In fact, however, the interests of the university are in performing certain tasks for the society that frequently run counter to that professed self-description. 
I think that when the crunch comes when the occasion arises, as it has i~ recent years in American universities what controls is not the official rhetori~ but rather the real purposes the university serves. And that means that universities are busily throwing out people who are 
Franldln L Devl• 
As strong, bitter and delightful as a 
bottle of Guiness, Brendan Behan's The 
Hostage opened this weekend at 
Washington Hall. It's easily the highpoint
?; this semester's theatrical events. Yet 
1t s hard to put your finger on just what 
the ND-SMC theatre offered us. I'm not 
sure if I saw a drama, a musical, a dance 
hall show, or if vaudeville isn't quite as 
dead as is rumored. Behan avoided the 
problem by terming it an "Irish 
Entertainment"... whatever The Hostage is 
tagged, it's a joy to watch. 
. We are given the barest thread of a plot mvolvmg an IRA attempt to hold a British soldier captive and thus prevent the hanging of an IRA partisan in the North. It's not the story which seems the most important though, it's the portrait we are g1ven of Behan's Irishmen. 
They are a wonderful, paradoxical people. Religious and irreverent, sad and ~ay, ~owerful and frail. Behan's world is mhab1ted by thieves, prostitutes, drag queens, and old men fighting wars forty-fi_ve years ended. They laugh, curse a_n~ dnnk as they thurn b their noses at ndt~ulous world. Yet their carryings-on can t camouflage the innate pride and commitment of the peovle 
The ND-SMC Theatre's performance was completely together in every sense of the word. The ensemble acting of the cast was a joy to watch as the members of the cast played off each other and the audience with a refreshing zest. If you start to talk about "stars" of a performance, in this show you have to give the title to the ensemble. 
Jimmy Boland's wooden-legged Pat, aligned in any sense at all with radical political causes. And it is particularly the case if the radical political causes they are aligned with question the present social 
role of the university. 
Q. You have said that the university, by its very nature, has a subversive role in society. Could you explain? A. The uni­versity has a subversive role in society only in the sense that education has a subversive role in society. Any time you begin asking questions, anytime you begin to try to raise consciousness of a large number of people, as the univ•ersities have traditionally done, you naturally call into question the orthodoxies of those societies that the universities exist within. So the universities have always been, in 
that sense, a sort of locus of unrest in society. 
On the other hand, the universities 
themselves, the university structur•es have 
historically and traditionally been 
methods that the society used to control 
dangerous intellectuals. When the univer­
sities were founded in the High Middle 
Ages the purpose was to get these danger­
ous intellectuals off the streets, to license 
them under proper authority so that their 
licenses could be taken away if they 
didn't behave properly. 
The university has always had this sort of double mindedness about it. On the one hand, by the very nature of what it does there is a subversive, a questioning relationship to the society at large. On the other hand, the university's institu­tions themselves have always senred the purposes of the society as a whole. 
Q. What does all this mean forth~: future of the university? A. I am afraid that we are entering, as we are in general in this country, into a rather dark period. By 'we' I mean university people. The pre­sent general economic conditions in American society are not what we term good. This is particularly bad, strangely enough, in the 'academic market place' in that the over-production of PH.d.'s and the under-funding of universities in the last few years has created a reserve army of the proletariat among academics, so that this allows a repressive aspect in 
universities_tQ_<:.Q.me to the fore. 
It is just as easy for the university to hire a docile teacher as one who could raise some questions. So I think that uni­versities will come more and more into line with the way the vice-president would like to see them. And it is going to create a greater and greater alienation both within the university itself in terms of students and teachers and also is going to create a larger and larger class of educated people alienated from the tradi­
tional rounds followed by intellectuals of 
1 
the universities. 
Q. Do you see any promise in the concept of the Free University? A. I am very hopeful about what the Free University suggests. It seems to me that if you look at the history of the university; in the West (it is a peculiarly Western institu­tion), you find that Universities have occasionally been founded as Free Uni versities. Some great medieval universities were founded by great groups of scholars and teachers who could not take the system where they were and left. For example, Oxford University was founded by a group of dissident students who left Paris. 
The Free University movement is going to have a large reservoir to draw on in the next few years of people who have a commitment to the sort of traditional kind of intellectualization that goes on at universities and are critical enough of it to try to structure something else. 
When the University could be entirely 
self-contained, you could literally build 
walls around it and keep the universit) 
away from the community at large. Now 
it is going to be less and Jess possible. The 
spillover form the university is going to 
contaminate the rest of society. 
This all may break down some of the 
artificial animosity built up outside the 
university towards people who are 
engaged in intellectual pursuits. The 
fundamental anti-intellectualism of 
America serves the status quo. The 
present spillover from the university may 
cement some allienaces between students 
and people in the university and people in 
society who do not have the opportunity 
that middle class white kids have. 
The academic people have to realize that they don't have the tenuous sort of security that the university has always provided. Traditionally, university people have known that their status was insecure enough that they had better watch their step. Once the axe finally falls and people are thrown out of the universities, once we have a large group of unemployed intellectuals, then the axe can no longer fall. So, in a way, it is very liberating. I have spent a long time in schools and have not been out of them literally for years. Suddenly to realize that the whole construct of things that you worry about in that sort of life you do not have to worry about any more -it is really very 

nice. It is terribly liberating. 
Q_. ~hen you were hired two years ago, 
dtdn t you anticipate difficulties due to 
your political philosophy? A. Yes 
frankly. When I was offered the job her~ 
by the History Department, I told them 
that I felt that the department and I 
would not find one another politically fit 
and congenial. The official response was 
that this needn't be the case. 
The actual possibility of being fired has 
?een present since I came here. Anybody 
m the academic world would have to be 
blind not to see what is going on else­
where. And the bigger and better the 
university, the faster it is kicking out 
everyone who is to the left of Attilla the 
Hun. It is just an amazing process. It is 
usually the junior and untenured peopie 
who go. It only makes headlines when 
they try to throw out a Staughton Lynd 
or another tenured person. A large 
number of us foot soldiers can go without 
much being said about it. As I say, some 
of the biggest and best universities have 
done the biggest and best jobs of getting rid of people. So, we have expected it all along. We have talked about what we would do when it happened. 
Q: What do you plan to do? Have you ti?ed to get another job?A. Well, we've discussed and discarded a number of possibilities. I don't know ·if it is worth w~ile ~o try to force one's way into a untverstty community by trying to beat out one's brothers and sisters who are also involved in teaching. I really don't know what I'll do. My wife is a librarian. 
(Continued on page 8} 

''Tile H~tstaie": best of tile year 
the proprietor of the "brockle" ('That's ~nglish for whorehouse," he informs us.) lS full. of exuberance and good old-fashwned blarney without ever descending to caricature to achieve the effect. If I had a great-uncle Gusty from Galway, I'm sure he'd move drink laugh
' , , 
and tell the same incredible stories as as Boland's Pat. Nori Wright plays a non-trite prostitute with a .24-karat heart. Miss Wrigllt has consistently been excellent in ND-SMC Theatre productions, yet she's surpassed every other time I've seen her. Bethenea Jeanne Griffith and George 
T. Moore both make their major ?roduction debuts in The Hostage. Moore IS a perfect Leslie, the young English soldier who's being held by the IRA. His eyes portray the gamult of emotions and th_e rest_ o_f ,him _follow along faithfully. Mtss Gnffm s pnm social worker who's got. religion (of one sort or another) remmds me of a second-cousin old-maid schoolteacher of mine who always shows up at funerals and weddings ... but that's a different story. (If you're second generation Irish you know the kind of second cousin I'm talking about -if you're not Miss Griffith will let you in on the experience.) 
Dr. Roger Kenvin directed and adapted the production. He has worked successfully to draw the audience into the action. The action surrounds the a~1dience ... or maybe I should say that the audience is merged with the action. Richard Bergman's set, as rough and as warm_ as Behan's people, is used by Kenvm to draw them into the action and then abruptly reminds them that ~hey are at a perfo~mance after all. Imaginary walls are butlt only to disolve for the sake of a song or dance, and then are rebuilt again. He has managed to remind us that we are not being shown a place or a story so much as we are being allowed to share 
a state of mind. The_ Hostage is a joy. it's an entertamment, it's a good time, but be warned that all this playfulness is about serious things. You can sit through a dozen songs full of irreverence, but 

you're apt to find that a special sort of reve_rence will creep up on you. You'll be remmded that this is just a show but som_ehow you're apt to fidn a p~inful reahty creeping up on vou. 
Even though exam~ are about to smother you, even though you really don't think much about Ireland or its people until March 17th, take the time to see The Hostage and then go buy a six pack of Guiness -they're both "G d 
~Yoo.» oo 

James_ Bolan~, Roger Kenvin, and Nori Wright, co-conspirators m the Irish Comedy "The Hostage " Take t d b k h"
weekend (lot f St M , ' · a s u Y rea t ts
F "d d Ss o . ary s gir s 1 want to go) and co-educate yourself. Thursday n ay, an aturday at 8:30, Washington Hall. ' 
Page 6 
Monday, December 7, 1970 
Concerned About Pollution? 
Enroll in CE 213 
"Man !4nd His 
Environment" 

A University-wide course available to all ND-SMC stu­dents-Sophs fmd above 
Vandalism and crime analyzed 
By Steve Kane The effects of campus van­was interviewed. He referred to many students have shirked this dalism and larceny have been these effects as being due to responsibility.felt by most Notre Dame stu­"carelessness" rather than van­Many students recognize and
This is the first oftwo articles concerning the problems of van­dents. Most recently it was Dil­dalism. He blamed such acts as are disgusted with the abhorent lon Hall that was ransacked over tearing ash trays from walls, physical conditions existing
dalism and crime on campus. 
the Thanksgiving holiday. Some

Part one deals with the problem breaking lamps and windows and within ghettos and slums; yet
have been victims of room thie­

at large; part two will focus on throwing cigarettes on the carpet some of these same students dis­the vandalism in Flanner Hall. very while others have witnessed on students who apparently have play litt~e concern for their hall's destruction in their own halls or 
no regard for the property of appearance. Father Chambers 
observed the results of it. 

said that the university, because There is also the other side of it is paying for the damages, is campus vandalism which in­very aware of what student 
cludes car thefts, damage to uni­OBSERVER INSIGHT "carelessness" can do. One solu­
others. 
Craftsmen in Optics® 
versity buildings, and some of the more malicious acts which often result in personal injury. This is the distinction drawn be­tween hall vandalism and cam­pus vandalism. 
In attempting to understand what effects hall vandalism has had, Father Thomas Chambers, Director of Student Residence, 

"Nine hundred thousand dol­Jars was spent on hall improve­ments last year," he said. Stu­dent responsibility must accom­pany such an investment if its benefits are to be long-lasting," he added. The reason for much of the damage in the halls, accor­ding to Fr. Chambers, is that too 
Whydoesn't 
General Electric sell new ideas to the cities instead of newgadgetsto the suburbs? 
After thirty years or more of neglect, there's no question our cities need help. 
But what kind of help? Will another thousand sanitation men be the answer to dirty streets? Will doubling the police force finally bring crime under control? 
Can new rent laws force landlords to provide more low­income housing? 
All the old, obvious ideas have been tried. What's needed are new ideas and new technological developments. 
General Electric has been working on the problems of cities for a number of years now. And in tha't time we've come up with some things we think will help. 
Garbage General Electric research has come up with what is probably the most revolutionary idea in garbage disposal in years. Our scientists are working toward a process by which a special strain of bacteria converts garbage into a high-protein food for cattle. The process is still something of a "laboratory trick," but it could be in the pilot-plant stage in as little as three years. 
Crime You might not expect a company like General Electric to be doing anything about crime. But the fact is, GE has been working with the Syracuse police, looking for a new approach to the problem. Qur scientists there came up with a whole new concept in police organization called "Crime Control Teams." In their first year, these teams were credited with cutting crime 62% in one large, representative neighborhood of Syracuse. And the concept has since been adopted by a number of other cities. 
Housing 
To meet the critical need for new low-income housing, General Electric is participating in the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Operation Breakthrough. 
While GE has no intention of going into commercial home building, we do hope to supply the builder-develorer with new products needed to improve his efficiency. 
We now have several design rrototyres of advanced, modular homes that can be assembled in a matter of hours. 
These are just a few of the new ideas General Electric has come up with to help cities at the same time that we continue to improve 
GENERAL 0: ELECTRIC 
"gadgets" to help people. 
We don't think our home products are at all unnecessary or frivolous. If they seem that way, it's because people have forgotten how much they rely on them. To wash dishes. To wash clothes. To keep warm. To keep cool. To entertain. And on and on. 
New ideas for the cities and new "gadgets" for the home both have the same end in mind, after all. To help people live better. 
Why are we running this ad? 
We're running this ad, and others like it, to tell you the things General Electric is doing to solve the problems of man and his environment today. 
The problems concern us because they concern you. We're a business and you are potential customers and employees. 
But there's another, more important reason. These problems will affect the future of this country and this planet. We have a stake in that future. As businessmen. And, simply, as people. 
We invite your CO!l)ments. Please write to General Electric, 570 Lexington Ave., New York, N.Y. 10022. 
tion lies in making the individual ~t.udent aware. 
Fr. Chambers hopes to lo­
calize the issue by encouraging 
the hall governments to assume 
more responsibility in coping 
with hall misconduct. He con­
cluded that some hall improve­
ments are rejected because too 
many university funds have been 
used in repainng hall damage. 
Vandalism in general is the everyday problem of Director of Security, Arthur Pears. "Al­though campus vandalism and larceny are comparatively at the same level that they have been in the last few years, the problem is still very serious," Pears said in a recent interview. He stated that increasing the number of campus security guards is not the im­mediate answer; rather, it is the students who can discourage thievery by locking their doors, and fighting campus crime by re­porting any illegal acts, whether they have witnessed them or are reasonably suspicious of such an act occurring. 
He was pleased with student cooperation this year in helping to arrest vandals and thieves. He further explained that in recent times, students and adults alike, have become very timid in 
"involving themselves with law enforcement." Accoring to Pears the greater part of the answer lies in student concern and co­operation in dealing with cam­pus crime. 
When asked whether outsiders or students are to blame for the majority of campus crime, Pears replied that the answer is not known.Until more students chal­lenge the problem and help Se­curity, not enough crimes can be detected in time for his office to take effective action, he added. 
Dean of Students Father James Reihle also expressed the greater need for student involve­ment in stifling campus crime and vandalism. He stressed that much of the success of thieves on campus is due to students leaving doors unlocked. Also, he further commented that many students aware of certain des­truction or theft going on, will not report it because it involves reporting friends. 
Course repeats 
(Continued from page 3) 
Sister Maria Concepta Mc­Dermott the faculty member in charge of organizing the series, will announce three more lectures in the future. 
' 
This third lecture series fol­lows two previous Series from the l25th anniversary celebra­tion. Sister Maria Concepta plans to submit a proposal for an aU-college grant for a yearly lec­ture series. 
The lecture series is open to 
all St. Mary's and Notre Dame students. 

Monday, December 7, 1970 
Page 
No.2 tries hard, beats Notre Dame 
was by fouling and the alumnus went on to say, "John "There's never been a Notre 
All-American just wouldn't miss Roche had. a tremendous game Dame team in history that quit from the fifteen foot line. for us. He bailed us out again.· before the final whistle. Even Carr played much more like Great ones like Roche and Carr when they were down by four 
the super-star that he is in the can do that for you." points and took that timeout second half. He worked himself McGuire was never certain 0:13 left, I told my boys, 'Don't free on a number of occasions of the outcome in this contest even smile at them. They'll be and hit with deadly consistency until the clock read 0:00. coming after you...?' 
throughout the final 20 minutes. Carr shot 67% from the floor and most of his shots were long range jumpers. 
Both coaches had a few choice remarks after the final buzzer. Johnny Dee felt that "early foul trouble was probably our biggest problem. We fouled much too often. I bet we had a lot more field goals than they did. However, they were excel­lent foul shooters and those points count too." Dee was right about the field goal situation .. Notre Dame had seven more shots connecting from the floor 
but SC attempted 21 more free throws than did the Irish. 
South Carolina's Frank McGuire said, "We took a rather big gamble by playing a zone defense most of the way. We showed them a man for man in the first fc~w minutes, but we new that wouldn't last because of Carr. Nobody can guard him one on one." 
The self-proclaimed subway 

NOTRE DAME FG FT REB PTS SOUTH CAROLINA Jones 6-20 6-8 10 18 Gemmell S-7 0-0 9 10 
FG FT REB PTS
Pleick 3-10 2-2 9 8 Owens 7-11 1-5 10 ISCarr 12-18 3-4 3 27 Ribock 0-1 3-5 6 3Meehan 1-6 0-0 3 2 Riker 8-15 6-6 8 22Catlett 5-13 0-1 3 10 Roche 8-20 16-16 4 32Sinnott 3-9 1-1 3 7 

Kevin
Egart 0-0 0-0 0 0 Joyce 5-9 3-S 3 13TOTAL 35-83 12-16 45 82 Aydlett 0-0 0-0 I 0 0-0 1

Both Notre Dame and South Carolina had 10 Carver 0-0 0 
team rebounds. TOTAL 28-56 29-37 43 85 
Frosh control Ball State 
by Vic Dofr Observer Sportswriter the game, proved that he can
with 34 points, clicked for 19 of 

play -defense as well as offense,
Notre Dame's fresh­these in the second half, as the scored a key bucket to stretch man basketball team advanced visitors gradually chipped away the ND margin, and the reap­its seasonal record to 2-0 Satur­at the Irish lead. But ND was not pearance of Valibus in the Irishday by defeating the frosh squad without its own sparkplug. Bob lineup virtually wrapped up thefrom Ball State, 88-81. Valibus, who was nearly a phys­decision for the Notre DameThe Irish grabbed an early ical replica of Bullington, more frosh'.

lead against their smaller oppo­than matched his counterpart's The ND yearlings ran theirnents, and never let it get away heroics. The ND guard, though lead to nine with 1 2 seconds re­from them. But, although Ball he scored only nine points, maining, but moments later BallState was never able to overtake proved to be a very effective State scored again, and the Irish

the ND yearlings, the visiting ballhandler, and dealt out 10 as­just held the ball out of bounds
team did stage a second half '>ists during the course of the until time expired. 

comeback which left the out­game. Valibus' pinpoint tosses 

Besides their dominance oncome very much in doubt until often were directed either to the scoreboard, the Irish fresh­the last few minutes. Schumate or to 6-7 Gary Nov­men were also superior in theirIt was Ball State's inability to ak, and just as often resulted in control of the offensive and de­find the range during the first short-distance shots for the Irish fensive backboards. ND out-re­half that paved the way for their team. 
eventual downfall. were bounded Ball State 52-46, and
They But, midway through the sec­

the key men here for the Irish
able to hit on only 17 out of 45 ond half, when. Valibus was re­shots from the field, and the moved because of foul trouble were Novak with 14 rebounds, 
Schumate with 13, and TomIrish were quick to take advan­(four personals), the ND offense O'Mara with 6. Chris Collins and tage of this spell of inaccuracy. seemed to lose some of its po­Bill Clark were the big men un­
The Notre Dame freshmen, tency. The Ball State attack had derneath for Ball State, as theywhile attempting far fewer shots lost little of its sting, though, as each grabbed 10 rebounds. 

(32), converted on 22 of them, once again the Irish lead began As their varsity counterpartsas the Irish left the floor at half­to dwindle. 6-4 forward Ed did against the University oftime in possession of a 47-40 Kednay and 6-7 forward Chris Michigan, the Notre Dame fresh­lead. 6-8 center John Schumate Collins notched 20 and 13 men had most of their problems netted 15 first half points, and points respectively, as they in the turnover department. The was largely responsible for keep­teamed with Bullington to over­Irish turned the ball over to theiring the ND lead at a comfortable come the Notre Dame lead. 

opponents 1 9 times, while Ballmargin throughout the initial 20 The two teams volleyed for State committed only 8 miscues. 
minutes. several minutes, as Ball State was It was this abundance of turn­During th'~ second half, Ball able to pull to within seven, and overs that made the overall team

State seemed to be a different then to within five of Notre effort by the Irish freshmen ap­ball club, as they traded scores Dame. Ball State still trailed by pear to be somewhat lackluster.

with Notre Dame for the remain­five with slightly more than five But the individual talent is allder of the game. Larry Bulling­minutes to play, but they were there, and, given time, these ND

ton, a 6-2 guard, Jed the Ball not able to come any closer. State comeback. Bullington, Schumate, who, by blocking sev­first-year men will develop into a 
who was the game's high scorer eral shots in the late stages of very good ball club. 

by Terry Shields Observer Sports Editor 
After watching a football season billed as "the year of the quarterback" one might get the impression from Saturday's South Carolina game that bas­ketball might well be called the "year of the guard."Two of the finest backcourt men in the country met head to head and both came away from the game without any loss of _pride Unfortunately, one did have to come away with the loss of a game. It was John Roche and SC over Austin Carr and Notre Dame in a close 85-82 ball game. 
Even though Roche did not have a superb shooting game (eight of 20 from the field), he kept the game under control for the No. 2 ranked Gamecocks with his smooth, flawless ball-handling and his perfect 16 for 16 foul shooting perfor­mance. Roche was the high scorer in the game with 32 points. As coach Johnny Dee said after the game, "He simply dominates their offense." 
The game statistics are a rather surprising commentary on the happenings in the Convo. Notre Dame actually out-re­bounded the taller Gamecocks (45 to 43) and they committed the fewest number of errors that this reporter can ever remember. At the half the Irish had handed the ball over an amazing single time, and just six for the entire game. It was one of the ND strong suits that ended up in a cross-rough, however. A cold first half from the floor spelled doom for Notre Dame as the tight zone of the Gamecocks propelled them to a comfortable ten point lead at intermission. 
This ·zone was expected by Dee but he explained his theory of attacking a zone. "We just go where the openings are. If they want to over-play Austin that's fine with us. We'll just go to the other side for Collis (Jones). Unfortunately, he (Collis) just had one of those nights when the ball wouldn't drop for him." 
The Gamecock zone was so effective in covering Carr in the first stanza that the Irish captain was limited to only three shots. Austin didn't even get a shot off from the field until there were ten minutes gone in the game. He hit on two of his three shots but this simply wasn't the offensive explosion that ND fans usually see from the 
All-American. 
Nobody was able to take up the slack in the scoring for the Irish and if Roche wasn't working for a jumper or getting a charity toss from the stripe he was feeding his 6'1 0" playmates underneath, Tom Owens and Tom Riker. Both worked for easy shots a number of times. The well-disciplined South Caro­lina team was never headed and 
after the early going they were tied only twice by the Irish. This occurred with about nine min­utes remaining in the game when the two national powers were knotted at 56 and then 58. Kevin Joyce hit a clutch hoop then, and ND couldn't get close again. 
One bright spot for Notre Dame in the first half was the offensive performance turned in by Sid Catlett. The 6'8" senior played only 11 minutes but he managed eight big points. These came at crucial times when it looked as though the Gamecocks might put the Irish away for good. 
The second half was an up and down affair for the Irish. They threatened to overtake South Carolina on a number of occasions but it seemed that every time they might get close one of the few turnovers would arise or the Irish would simply miss the easy shot. SC also came through with a few garbage hoops off offensive rebound. 
The final five minutes of the 
ball game seemed to set up a 
pattern. ND would score and 
then Roche would take the ball 
and simply keep it away from 
everyone and in so doing, eat up 
valuable time. The only way 
Notre Dame could get the ball 



The All-Americans meet. Austin gets off one of his few first half shots over John Roche. 
p~_ge a 7118 QOt"J:"IUM:'D
r=========~====~======~==~-=======-===========~==~----~~~_:~~=:~~~~~~--------------------------~----~M~o~n~d~a~y~,~D~ecember 7, 1970 
Mardi Gras raHie begun 

$130 LESS CARTRIDGE 
The handsome slim line chassis of this 2-speed integrated 
transcription turntable houses a host of advanced design 
features. 
Precision Cuein<~ Synchronizer-Conveniently positioned at the front, it is isolated from the tonearm. Suspends and lowers the arm smoothly and gently into the groove. Ex­tends life of stylus and records. 
Anti-skate Control -Maintains stylus position precisely 
on both walls of the stereo groove for distortion-free re­production. 
Adjustable Low· Mass Plug-in Shell -Permits tracking 
angle adjustment to ideal 15" angle. Low friction accom­
modates high compliance cartridges. 
Tonearm Balan<:e & Stylus Tracking Force Regulation ­
Half gram adjustments down to 0.5 gram. Tracking error 
is below 0.2% c:m of radius. 
Precision Balanced Turntable -7 lbs., 12-inch non-mag­netic platter. Flywheel action absorbs speed variations, · eliminates wow and flutter. 
Unified Suspension System -Eliminates rumble effects of the chassis, motor, acoustic feedback and outside vibrations. 
Double 16-pole Synchronous Motor-Constant and smooth in-phase precise speed. Regularity better than ± 0.1% Drive belt system further reduces rumble. 
Speeds-33V3, 45 rpm. 
SOUTH BENO 
.,___.. ,OPEN 3-B PM MON-TH 
1-4:30 PM SUN & FRI 
COMPLIETE COMPONENT SERVICE 
(Continued on Page 1 
inented further on the advan­tages of selling only a single raffle book. "Our goal this year is to have each Notre Dame and St. Mary's students sell at least one raffle book. If successful, the Notre Dame Charities will receive approximately $50,000 for our efforts. We feel this is not< too much to ask considering the fact we have a full month off for the Christmas holidays, a time when it might be easy to sell a few chances to relatives and friends. Besides, the indivi­dual seller stands to make 20% per ticket sold ($2.00 per book sold), free admission to the Mardi Carnival, plus one chance per book sold on the student grand prize--a 1971 124 Fiat Spider." 
In an effort to get students a little more interested in the raffle and also to bolster the ND Charities Fund an entrance fee to the Stepan Center Carnival will be charged. Stepic com­mented, "A single night fee of .25 or a 5-day fee of $1.00 will be the cost. Any student who sells one raffle book will be granted admittance to the carni­val free of charge." Mardi Gras' Assistant Chairman Phil J. Mi!;haels said regarding the en­tire Mardi Gras weekend, "We're trying once again to make this the best collegiate weekend in the nation. The weekend will be begun on Wednesday February 3 with a party at the National Guard Armory. Word is that the Red Garter Band will be back and that the refreshments will be free. The following day the carnival opens in Stepan at 7:00 
p.m.. The social commissioner is now working on the concert for Friday evening February 5. The Moody Blues and James Taylor have been approached. The raf­fle grand prize and the student grand prize will be picked on Sunday evening and the fol­



Pizza Hnt Pete Presents 
ND & SMC 
"Holiday Special" 
'l'2 price on any pizza or soft drink 
With School J.D. 
Monday thru Thursday Good only at tile Edison Rd. HUT 2 
EAT IN OR CARRY OUT 
TRY OUR NEW SUBMARINESANDWICH 
• 
2 LOCATIONS-CALL AHEAD 288-6060 SO. BEND #1 ACROSS FROM I.U. 233;.3827 SO. BEND #2 MILE EAST OF N.D. 
We Are the Nations Largest! 

day will be used for those who would be permitted to enter want to try and win back the Mardi Gras this year began the money they lost on Thursday first week in November. Approx­and Saturday." imately 25 designs were sub­
Carnival Chairman Phil De­mitted by the deadline Decem­Franco commented a little on ber 1. Architect Bill Studenic is the theme this year-Expo '71 now in the process of planning Notre Dame. "The theme was Stepan Center and choosing the chosen so that the people most creative and appealing designing booths for the carnival booths that will comprise Ex­would be able to use as much of po-'71 Notre Dame. Clubs their own creativity as possible. should be notified within the Many of the designs received next week if their designs have were excellent, and we are only been accepted. Construction of 
hoping they turn out as good as the booths will begin on January they look on paper." A design 26 under the direction of chair­contest to choose the clubs that man Jay Bonner. 
Estabrook interview 
(Continued from page 5) 

She could work while I take car~:. of the children and ponder great thoughts. I have half-heartedly looked for another job. The past couple of years at Notre Dame have been busy and exciting. There are a large number of things I would like to get down on paper. A year's enforced idleness wouldn't be all that bad in terms of pulling together the last coup­le of years. 
Q. Do you see the firings as affecting Notre Dame's position as,perhaps, the leading Christian Univeristy? A. Definitely. As I've said before, I think that the fundamental problems facing Notre Dame are essentially the same as those facing other uni­versities across the country. Still and all, I, as someone who has spent his undergraduate and graduate education in aggressive­ly secular universities -which I enjoyed very much -found it very heartening to see what could be done with the Christian tradition in a university setting at Notre Dame. By this I do not mean the formal religiosity of Notre Dame. But in fact, both 
my wife and I were very much 
MAil9UISE CUT $395 DIAMOND $150 
DIAMOND...... 3·SOME....•.. 
((tll1 
*SOUTH BEND *MISHAWAKA BUDGET tERMS 

YOUNG ADULT ACCOUNTS WELCOME NOTRE DAME ACCOUNTS 


met here who were seriously trying to use the Christian tradi­.tion as a basis for developing a critique of contemporary society and of developing the new man. I would be sorry to see that lost along with the rejection of some of the rigidity of formal Christ­
ianity. 
Dorothy Day was just here 

talking about the ways in which 
Catholicism always contains the 
seeds of its own renewal. I think 
this is very true. It is the only 
continuing basis for a radical 
critique of society that has ex­
isted for the past two thousand 
years. All revolutionary ideolo­
gies fall back into apologies for 
the status quo. It is true of 
Communism and of American 
democracy, and others. 
There is a sort of mustard 

seed in Christianity that exer­
cises a final critique over against 
any exisiting orthodoxy. So there 
is a close relationship between 
the subversive nature of the uni­
versity and the Christian idea of 
accepting no society as final. On 
that basis, some of the things I 
have seen ·the Christian radicals 
at Notre Dame do have impress­
ed me far more than the va st 
variety of secular radicals. 
FOX'S DIAMOND IMPORT SAVINGS 

AT FOX'S YOU GET ABIGGER, BEmR QUALITY DIAMOND LESS MONEY! 










