
VOL. IV, No. 123 Serl!inK the Notre Dame allll Saint Mar_1• 's ('o!lcge Communi(!' WEDNESDAY, MAY 6, 1970 
Lowenstein sees change possible 
by Chff Wmtrode heart of the land,... We are the sour about what their s b· d . s they are" to all Nixon's Victnamization progr m Senior Class Fellow Allard K. majo~ity~ and we will no longer government d01:'s and says," t~at ;~:~~ :hoaare "misled" into as based on contingency that :re Lowenstien, Congressman from re.mam s1lent...Soon the countr~ they are now .m a state which believing things arc better than "myths. They cannot Wofk." He New York, urged last night at w11l m~rch to stop war mst.~ad ot leads to the kmds of events. of they are, " ... we can change the felt that Thieu's government was the Senior Fellow speet~h th01t marchmg. to go to war, sa1d the l:.~st few days. . direction of this country," he never going te get popular the dissatis.ified citizens of this Lowenstem. He warned that th1s needs to 'd support and our support of that country work together to end Lowenstein said it is be understood . by . the sal J-i e criticized President {,·ontinued on ;Jage ) 
"all problems that have borne important to ask "what has government, because 1f 11 JS not, down on us for so long as a produced the kind of they will do the "most people that now arc at some atmosphere in the United States extraordinary damage to this turning." that can turn the young people country that is possible. They 
Saying that " we are grieved against the government with will lose our sons and and wounded, but we are tough such bitterness that they would daughters." and ready to fight," the march on other young people "They are going to lose their outspoken liberal freshman wearing its uniform." loyalty, their love of the congressman wnfidently told a "It is not something planted country, their sensitivity and receptive overtlow Washington from an alien place. It is not their generosity. They are going llall audience that "we shall something conspired into or to 1urn it into something hitter prevail." organized by kooks. It is and negative, and they are going 
Lowenstein said that "we" something done to our people, to make of our people a country can cause a turn in the country's to our young people especially, that cannot stand," he added. mood similar to the change that by our government," said Lowenstein read a recent toppled Johnson, but the road Lowenstein. quote from a Vietnam colonel will be "longer" and it "will be Calling this an ''atrocious" about the draftee'S complaints tougher hccause it will he fact, he said only the concerning the My Lai massacre, longer." government could have created that he felt summarized the 
Declaring that it is "nonsense suc'l bitterness, for our young "horror show" of the last few to stop the movement," he said people "grow up loving this years. "instead of cscalaling our ov. ., country, caring about it as much "The young are idealistic, and miseries and continuing with this as any generation ever has, more they do not like man's self pity,"..."our job simply is to than most." inhumanity to man. As they get take the fads lo the people." ''They find themselves in a older, they will become wiser, 
Lowenstein viewed the situation, then, in which all the and more tolerant," said the completely unexpct:tcd reversal thing~ IIIey love, and are told arc reported quote. of American opinion on lhc war true seem nol to be true. and so I·Je traced the reasons why "I primarily by the efforts of this 1rcrnc'l<'(r s scn~c '1r find myself unable to feel the stude11ts during the spring and gratitude for being American. kind of despair and gloom that early summer ol I<J6k as an lidL:Iity to the traditions and seems to be so pervasive among indicatio11 that once again the heritage of this country, is so many of the people that feel , o1untry's thinking process can prcl:isdy thc ingrcdi~nt that us I do about goals "to the he ..:hanged. produces the kinds of hostilities, feeling of frustration" that is 
If the country had not th~ kinds of resentment, the "now not limited to th~.: usual rcsponlkd to the pleas of the kinds of oppression, the kinds of groups ... " students. then Lowenstein felt frustrations that lead to the "That frustration is now that maybe it would he kinds of outbursts that then throughout the country, and if justifiable to say that the produce the kinds of oppression we can regroup and take it on L:ountry is without hope, but and killing, that arc then ourselves to explain why things Congressman Lowenstein as he spoke to the rally.
that the response dicta tcs justified on the grounds that another try on the part of the they were outbursts," explained students. Lowenstein. 
''Are we summer soldil:rs'? ... I lie blamed "by all odds, the 
Walsh suspends normal routine 
JUSt do not believe that," he govoernmcnt" for causing since said. l9fi3 the "most hopeful. by John Powers The resolution includes Wed­bcrs "to cooperate in imple­"We arc the pillars of the concerned, generous human nesday May 6 and Ascension menting the resolution." Some
Yesterday afternoon, the Rev.
constitution,  and  we  arc  the  species  produced"  to  feel  "so  John E. Walsh, C.S.C., Vice President of Academic Affairs, released a letter to all teaching and research faculty members. The letter is the result of a Student Life Council resolution of May 4 and calls for the suspension of classes today on Wednesday, May 6. The SLC resolution calls upon "the student body through its officers, the officers of the  Thursday, May 7, a traditional University holiday. Both days arc set aside for "an intensive study of all side!: of this profound and complicated prob­lem which involves the moral and spiritual, as well as the intellectual, quality of our na­tional life and public policy." The Academic Affairs office "strongly endorses" the resolu­tion and asks all faculty mem­ indicated their intention to re­schedule classes, if possihle, that would have been taught on Wednesday. Father Walsh closed the letter by stating: "The decision to accept lhc Student Life Coun­cil's res<-lu~ion which rcspnnd~ to a wide spread campus con­sensus in the present circum­stances, is not to he regarded as setting a precedent."  
administration, and the faculty to plan and set aside Wed ncsday and Thursday, May 6 and 7, as  Krashna will give  
days for speeches, teach and liturgical ceremonies express the deep feelings  ins, to and  indefinite support  
reservations  ahout  our  govern­ Fellow also addressed the rally.  
ment's  rcccn t  actions  in  In­ Organi~.cr  Jim Leary said that he  
do  China.  At yesterday afternoon's rally  was drawing up a "we won't go"  
The SLC went on to say that  in the Fieldhouse, Student Body  petition  and  would  be  circula­ 
it  hoped  "that  these  days  will  President  David  Krashna  said  ting  i1  among  the  students  for  
embody the Spirit of the Declar­ that student government and the  their signatures and Bill Mitchell  
ation  written  by  Father  lies­ strike  committee  were  commit­ read  a  st<J tc mcnt  of protest  to  
burgh  and  endorsed  by  the  ted  to  an  indefinite  strike.  lie  President Nixon to be sent along  
Student  Life  Council. The Stu­ said  that he would not unilater­ with draft cards, to be collcl'led  
dent  Life Council hereby desig­ ally  call off the strike and  pull  in  the  Scholastic  office,  to  
nates Mr. Krashna, Mr. Winnings,  out student government support  Washington.  
Professor  !Iouck  and  Mr.  Fac­ without a democratic consensus.  Lowenstein  denounced  Presi­ 
ccnda tn usc their best efforts to  lie  also  indicated  that  the  dent  Nixon  as  the  "prime  
sec  that  this  resolution  is  im­ strike,  in it iatcd  Monday, would  violator of the constitution" :~nd  
plemented."  A  majority  of  extend  past  the  two-day  mora­ at  the  sa me  time defended  the  
the Executive Committee of the  torium  recommended  by  the  people  who  arc seeking an  end  
Faculty  Senate  endorsed  the  Student  Life  Council  and  ap­ to  tJ .S.  involvement  in  I ntlo­ 
resolution  almost  immediately.  proved by the Vice-President for  China.  
Within  several  hours  a  clear  Academic  Affairs,  Rev.  John  lie said that the President and  
majority  of  those  faculty  con­ Walsh.  the  administration  were  trying  
tacted by the deans proved the resolution.  also  ap­ Representative Allard K. Low­enstein, the 1970 Senior Class  to divert attention away (con tinueJ on pag(' 6)  from  



PAGE 2 
WEONESDAY, MAY 6, 19JO 
McCarthy: sanctuary should be created for protestors 

hy Dave Lammers 
Professor Charles McCarthy advocated last night in a talk at St. Edward's hall that Notre Dame's adminstra tors, faculty, and students combine to create a sanctuary for the students and alumni of the University that resist induction into the armed services in protest of the Vietnam War. 
"The moral aisis ·has reached huge proportions," McCarthy said. "If a man comes out with the conclusion that the killing in Vietnam is unjust, he is in an enormous human dilemma. We must stand together now, for this may be our last chance. 
McCarthy spoke at length about the anxiety and suffering of the students who have decided that to kill in Vietnam is unjust. 
"What can we do to relieve the human suffering in Vietnam and here at Notre Dame?" McCarthy asked. 
The professor's proposed sanctuary would mean that students, faculty, and adminstrators would stand 
together within the community. Students and alumni that would join the sanctuary community

Postpone elections proposals. Other activities for 
. . 
Class elections co-ordmator 
Barry Doyle announced yes­
, ,
tcrday afternoon that the e!ec­
. 

twns scheduled for today have been postponed due to the student strike. Doyle added that the postponement is in cooper­ation with the statement issued by the SLC Monday afternoon. Doyle requested that can-dictates suspend their campaigns during the strike. Friday has been set as the "tentative" date for the elections. 
would stay on campus, starting this summer, and faculty and adminstrators would contribute through legal services, finding jobs, providing courses, and allowing students to live in the dormitories. 
McCarthy emphasized that his sense of the present situation indicates that "this may be our last chance to stand together. If we do not, we will stand alone before the courts, the draft boards, in Canada, in prison. We aren't going to be better people by ignoring the massive suffering going on, by suspending moral judgement in times of crisis." 
McCarthy emphasized that the santuary would be unique to Notre Dame as a Christian university. "This community 

wo_uld. be saying something effJ_cacwus to the country, and WUJld be a follow up on our '"' pretensions to moral 
(continued on page 7) Chr!s Ott~nweller, Tim MacCarry, Mark Winings, and Ed Roickle (head turned) talk 
• durmg stnke strategy.


Meettng for all students to be held 
by Shawn Hill 
At 8:00p.m. at Stepan Center there will be a general meeting of all students to discuss strike 
today include a general
ct. . th · d d 
JscussJon on e mam qua an 
a concelebrated Mass by Fathers
A 11 Sh.lt
men 8arte11 8urre 1 s
d Wh 1 ' ' an e an. After last night's meeting of the steering committee for the student strike, Steve Preston, committee member in charge of publicity, supplied the following information to The Observer. The primary objective of the strike, a..:cording to Preston, is the "immediate withdrawal of 
TIME IS RUNNING OUT 
for application to the 
Air Force ROTC 4-year program 
if you are: -a freshman or sophomore -interested in financial assistance -in good academic standing -physically qualified 
The door is open to niake up 
missed semesters 
CONTACT 
Dept. of Aerospace 

Studies 
ROTC Building 
P•torJE 283-6635 
But Hurry! Time IS running out. 
Entertainment Food & Drink


DUNES 
May 10, Call 8357 
all U.S. troops from Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia." Preston stated that this is the main goal of the steering committee, although they recognize the other aspects involved in the strike. 
Preston stated that the following resolution was passed by the committee: "We do not advocate any initiation of violence on the part of strikers during the strike." He emphasized the importance of the resolution and said that the committee strongly suggests all 
strikers  to  abide  by  the  
resolution.  
According  to  Preston  the  

members seriously questioned their status as steering committee and concluded that they were hopefully representative of striking students. He said that the committee was "very self-conscious" about taking any action that was unrepresentative of the students, and that it would do all that is possible to 
Fire discovered 
by AI DeFreeze Early Tuesday morning two unlit Molatov cocktails were thrown at the Military Science Building and at three a.m. a gasoline fire was set at the rear of the building. A security guard, discovered the fire, then stamped it out with his foot and called the fire department as an added pre­caution. One of the firemen sent out to the fire said that scorching of the paint was the only damage done to the building. The firemen, however, was worried that it "would give people ideas". Major Joseph Maio and Colonel Max Lake of the ROTC program said that the incident would not disrupt activities in the building. Father James Riehle, Dean of Students, stated that students were seen in the area of the ROTC building, but that no arrests have been made. Riehle also said that adequate measures have been taken to prevent any further harm to the building. 


DOIN' 
insure true representation and p.m. on the main quad after responsible action. He stated which the assembled students that "We are aware of a great and faculty are scheduled to potential for both good and bad march to Howard Park for a and we are devoted to the city-wide rally. Leafletting was proposition that responsible scheduled for this morning in action will produce the most many of the factories and high enduring and beneficial results." schools in the area. It was 
Preston concluded by stating expected that the marchers from that the length of the strike was Notre Dame . and St. Mary's still indefinite at this time. The would be met by members from 
length of the strike will be one Indiana University at South of the issues to be discussed Bend and various high school today, according to Preston. demonstrators. 
The Faculty Senate met last However, the march to night and approved a call for a 
Howard Park was not granted a general faculty meeting this parade permit yesterday. The afternoon at I:00 p.m. in march organizers say that they Washington Hall. The Senate will have marshalls to see that also approved a recommendation the march is carried on in an 
that the general faculty meeting orderly fashion. The marchers accept and sign Fr. !Jesburgh's will be required to march declaration on the war. 
two-by-two and stop at all stopA rally is scheduled for 3:00 signs. 

Faculty reaction mixed 
by Mark Walbran 
Faculty sentiment to the strike appears mixed. Yesterday afternoon, The Observer spoke with several faculty members who shared their views on the strike. , 

Professor Bernard Norling, Chairman of the History Department, thought that the strike would not achieve anything. Previous rallies held, he said, have had the effect of making the individual's opinion clearer to himself, but such rallies have not had any affect upon the President. 
"The present Administration pays no heed," said Norling. 
Norling said that strikes disrupt education and preoccupy students with politics when they should be' devoting themselves to their studies. He said that after students complete their studies they can involve themselves with political affairs. 
"Past experience has indicated that strikes by students have been harmful to education without being helpful to the public life of the country," said Norling. 
Norling said that a strike for two days would do no harm. He said that if he meets with students during the strike today, he would discuss either public affairs or the regular course material depending on the wishes of the students. 
Professor Gerhart Niemeyer of the Government Department said that any strike implies an amount of violence between groups. He said that it was self-defeating. in its vio!CJlCe. He added that the President would not give way to violence. 
Professor Niemeyer's class on Monday was disrupted by students chanting "Strike! Strike!" in the corridors. He said that he did not dismiss his cla~s but continued teaching. 
Dr. Niemeyer said that the incident reminded him of similar incidents involving the Nazis three or four years before their takeover. 
"You know I lived through all that," he said. 
Professor John Houck of the College of Business said that he found the entire situation "intriguing." He expressed the hope that in the next two days the Administration, faculty, and students will be able to discuss peacefully the war and, other related issues. 
Jim King, a teacher in the Sociology Department and President of the Graduate Student Union said that the term "strike" was a bad choice. "We are not striking the University," he said, "we are trying to·foster public opinion or to have· discussion on a: moral crisis." King called the situation a "suspension of normal d\lties." He said that he was in favor of this suspension. 
King said that one problem with strikes of this sort is that tbc 1 lniversity can become "politicized." He said that the University could not be used as a "political battleground." 

WEDNESDAY, MAY 6, 1970 PAGE 3
7118 OBSERfiEit 
Seek to determine Guard motive 
KENT, Ohio (UPJ)-A broad He said he finally was able to had telephoned her parents a of Youungstown, Ohio; Jeffrey ordered by Gov. James A. cast on a sheriffs radio set up a walkie talkie· system short time bt:fore to express Miller 19, a freshman of Rhodes, who sent guardsmen frequency, the confusion of the with the campus radio station to disapproval of the onto the campus during a
Plainview, N.Y .. and William K. moment and a breakdown in "try and get the facts correct." demonstration on the 20,000 weekend of rioting triggered by
Schroeder, 19, a sophomore of telephone communications Jed Four students were slain and student campus. President Nixon's Thursday
Lorain, Ohio, died in the to erroneous reports that two I0 wounded, three critically, in "She was completely ngight broadcast announcing
gunfire.National Guardsmen were killed the three second volley from the disgusted with the whole thing," U.S. troops had entered
John Cleary. 19, a freshman in the shooting Monday at Kent rifles of about 20 guardsmen who said her father, Arthur Krause of Cambodia.
of Scotia, l'!.Y.; Dean Kahler,State University. were retrating under a barrage of Pittsburgh. "And now she's "Rhodes called it "the saddest
20, a fre~!'".man of East Canton,The report also came from the rocks thrown by demonstrators. dead. Why in hell couldn't they Ohio; and Joseph Lewis, 18, a day I have known as governor." office of the university news Two of the dead were girls, have fired blanks or tear gas, or The President, learning of the
freshman of Massillon, Ohio,
bureau. Joseph Durbin, assistant something besides live tragedy at the White House, said 
and at least one of them, a were reported in critical 
public information officer at ammunition'!" it should convince educators and
pretty 19 year old brunette condition at Robinson Memorial 
Kent State, said, however, he did In addition to Miss Krause, students alike that when
freshmen named Allison Krause, Hospital in nearby Ravenna. 
not issue the report and that as Sandra Lee Scheuer, 20, a junior (continued on page 6) 
was an innocent bystander who A full investigation was far as he knew, no one in authority in the office gave such a report. Newsmen in the United Press In tern at ional bureaus at 


Send draft cards as escalation protest 
Columbus and Cleveland said 
they telephoned the university 

by Jim Hayes 
news bureau and received from a Before a large crowd in the conflict into Cambodia and merciless killing in Southeast of effecting policy for the person there a report of the Asia is immoral." Even without United States. As long as Nixonfieldhouse early Tuesday Laos.

deaths of the two guardsmen. 

They denounced that moral considerations however, ignores the Contitution and lawsafternoon, Steve Brion, BillThe person attributed the they stated that the President of the land, they will continueMitchell, and Rich Moran President's decision because, "Ininformation to Durbin. 
their protest.
had acted illegally in expanding the war without consulting Their statement concluded, 
Durbin said it was possible announced they were turning in refusing to recognize the 
that in the confusion following their draft cards as a protest of authority of our elected "We send our draft cards to you
the shooting, someone who was the escalation of the War. representatives in the llouse of in the office might have given Congress. This was the crux of not in defiance, but in personal
In a letter addressed to Representatives and the Senate, out the report as fact. their argument. "We can not efforts for peace."
President Nixon, and read by you have denied us the right
Contributing to the confusion obey the Jaws of a nation whose the letter encouraged fellow
Mitchell, the three announced upon which our democratic 
was a four hour overload of leader prostitutes the bais of students to do likewise. It also
their opposition to his recent obligation to society rests."
telephone circuits in 

those laws, i.e. The Constitution. advised those students to sendwidening of the Vietnam The three believe "thenortheastern Ohio during which Mitchell, Moran and Brion their cards to the Scholastic even emergency calls could not 
he processed. 
David Uix, city editor of the Record Courier at Ravenna, a community eight miles east of Kent, said a transmission from the scene over the Portage County Sheriff's office radio reported the guardsmens' deaths. 
Dix said the sheriff's office dispatcher asked for· and received a confirmation of this. Dix said a call to the university confirmed only three deaths at the time it was not known if any were (;uardsmen. 
Dix said another factor wall that two fo the dead brought to the Robinson Memorial Hospital were wearing khaki military type clothing. 
Jerry llayes, of the 
university's news service, said 
two guardsmen were killed. the campus "one from a heart attack and one from emotional exhaustio11." 
lie said this may also have contributed to the report that two guardsmenm were killed. 
Hayes said school spokesmen were aware of the erroneous report but because of the breakdown in telephone communications, "There was nothing we could do"to correct it. 



I I.OVE YOU,
Begin hunger strike 


by Mark Walbran 
To protest the present situa­
tion in Cambodia, 137 Zahm 
Hall residents began a 48 hour 
fast beginning at midnight last 
night. 
ln their petition the students said, "As a symbol of our concern, and in order to bring the sufferings of people all over the world more directly into our presence, we will voluntarily refrain from eating within the forty-eight hour period begin­ning at midnight Tuesday, May 5, and ending at midnight Thursday, May 7." 
In their statement to The Observer the students said that it is important to note that this is the action of the hall commun­ity-the type of community action "which personifies the spirit we have been trying to build at Notre Dame." 

The students urged other halls 
to follow their example. 

The fast is tentatively schedul­ed to end with a mass at I I :30 Thursday night between Zahm and Cavanaugh to be celebrated by Zahm Hall rector Fr. Thomas Blantz. 
The statement said that the petitions will be personally pre­sented to Fr. Hesburgh today and that he will be asked to send them to President Nixon. 
The students said that they contacted the dining hall man­agement who said that there was ''no chance" for the distribution of food or the money from it to the community. 


ALICE B. TOKI.AS 
(AND YOUR HASHISH BROWNIES) 
PLUS 

THREE COLOR CARTOONS 
BUGS BUNNY-ROADRUNNER-SPEEDY GONZALEZ 
Thursday May 7 
1:30-3:45-6:30 
ONLY 75c Knights of Columbus 
8:45-11:00 

WEDNESDAY, MAY 6, 1970
PAGE 4 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper DAVII}C. BACH, Editor GA£TANO M. De SAP10, Publisher 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, tNDIANA. 
Editorial 
We are deeply shocked by the violence that has swept college campuses in response to President Nixon's actions in Cambodia. We are equally troubled by the fact that otherwise intelligent men and women seem compelled to meet violence abroad with violence at home. 
This is not the time nor the place for such violence. It is a time for the responsible political action stressed last night by Allard Lowenstein in Washington Hall and in the rally in the Fieldhouse yesterday afternoon. 
It is time for the re-education that David Krashna envisioned when he declared the student strike. There are hopeful signs that thi~ education will take place. The response from the faculty and administration has been heartening. And student attendance at the rallies on the quad and in the fieldhouse indicate heightened student concern. 
But any time that emotion runs so high in a closed environment such as we have at Notre Dame there is a danger that it will be released in violent and foolish actions. For despite any positive contributions the Notre Dame community might make, it will never be registered as thoughtful political action if violence erupts. Violence does not convince anyone of the righteousness of any argument. We have only to look at Vietnam and the suffering and misery that have gone there in the name of righteousness to know that this is true. 
There is a very real threat of violence at Notre Dame. Two attempts have already been made on the ROTC building. While serious questions have been raised about the role of ROTC at a Christian University (this is one of the questions that must be resolved during the strike) we cannot condone the violence that these acts ~ypify. 
And again there is a threat of violence this afternoon in the march to Howard Park. Confrontations have been avoided because activities have been held on campus. But as soon as students stay off the campus they are entering the atmosphere that does not give them that same respect. 
We agree that the march to Howard Park should be held. It is the type of responsible political action that we have been advocating. It will engage a. larger audience. But it will also require greater restraint. We have only to look at the tragedy at Kent State to realize when confusion reigns. 

Letter 
We, the undersigned members Seience to scheduled lectures or Our reasons for making this of the Physics Department of panel discussions in the near statement are simple: We feel the University of Notre Dame du future, on these and similar 
that there are issues which Lac, request the faculty of the topics, to be open to the entire demand more than a complacentDepartment of Physics to university community. We also response by human beings. substitute f6r the scheduled would like to make known our There are times when an 
lectures some discussion on disapproval of President Richard immoral Government must be topics such as "Research at Nixon's "Cambodianization of resisted-when the people must No~re Dame" and "Science and the War" --an obvious invasion 
let the Government know that Morality." We ask the College of which is "not an invasion." they disapprove of its actions. 
We do not intend to demean the value or importanctt of classes.Jeanne Sweeney We are merely stating that the continued transgressions by President Nixon's administration on the desires of the American

Working together 
people and the rights of Southeast Asians to live transcend our 50 minutes, two As they cut across the lawn past Madeleva_ yesterday, hundreds of or three times' a day, 5 days a them, the battle cry was not that of the panty raiders, "here come week, grade scrounging the Irish,'' but of peace, "stop the war." Yesterday they weren't existence. Others live in terror; coming over for goodies, 'they were coming over to listen. Yesterday they are hungry, oppressed, and interspersed in the crowds as they marched over were girls, although their families are destroyed. It most girls joined them later at the rally. surely is not asking too much for What a change. Were they the same boys we watched over here us as community to stop and to the other night? Essentially they were, yet some change had ask "Why?" And by our occurred. A commitment? Perhaps some finally feel they have been stopping we should like to let pushed too far. Whatever the case it was obvious that a lot of Washington hear us say NO! WE individuals were not on their way over here to play games. DISAPPROVE! And by our They wanted to rally for peace. And they walked all the way stopping we should like to across the road to rally. Not for a date, not for goodies, but for question the role of science in peace. I really feel as if SMC might now be part of the ND society. And by our stopping we community. At least now we are all working together on something should like to make a start else besides the social situation. toward a Christian, humane 
Thanks for coming. Peace. society. Join with us, faculty and students!! 
Executive Editor: Dave Stauffer 

Sports Editor: Terry Shields Business Manager: Bruce Rieck 
John Mateja

Features Editor: Tim Treanor 
Ad. Manager: Bruce Barker 

Night Editor: Rich Smith 
Matthew O'Donnell
Campus Editor: Glen Corso 

Headlines: Phil Schatz 
Bob Shea 
News Editor: Steve Hoffman 

Layout: Marilyn Becker, Mike 
SMC Editor: Jeanne Sweeney 

Bridgeman 
Jim Sullivan 
Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode 
Pat Miller
Ann Conway 

Mark O'Donnell 

"We regret to inform you that your sister hu been kDied in action, on the campus of ... " 

Campus Opinion 
Edited by Gl~n Corso 
The following is written. by three St. Mary's· seniors: Kathy Carbine, Kathleen Kelly, and Julie O'Brien. 
The strikers have called for a "new educational policy at Notre Dame." They have asked for an indefinite suspension of classes in order to examine the immediately "relevant" problems of militarism, racism, and sexism. We do not here question the value of a temporary moratorium of classes to publicize the University's indignation at the move into Cambodia. We do question the implicit assumption in this plea that the traditional classroom content is not relevant to contemporary problems. 
Faced with the urgencies of today's problems, the strikers ask that university dialogue be exclusively concerned with the conflicts that threaten American society and the world, We do not contest the seriousness of these issues. Nor do we believe that any member of the university .;ommunity can ignore the evils of militarism, civil inequality, or cultural depravity, without incurring grave moral guilt. 
However, essential to any investigation of contemporary problems is a mind capable of unimpassioned analysis, flexibility of judgment, and a well-tempered vision of human possibility. This mind is cultivated through inquiry which probes the recurrent problems of mankind. There are tensions inevitable to all of us as we try to relate to the world. Through art, literature, history, and science, the collective experience of man is made accessible to us. A good poem, for instance, imaginatively recreates the kind of tensions the artist underwent which caused his particular view of reality to struggle up into consciousness. Or a milestone in scientific discovery, such as Copernicus' theory, is witness to a man's grappling with, and finally surpassing, the limitations of a commonly accepted world view. 
In order to appreciate what was truly courageous and creative in these perceptions, and in any perceptions which meet recurrent human problems, it is •occessary to view them in their full context. Paradoxically, both involvement and detachment are required. One must be involved in the tensions which produced the vision. At the same time, one must be detached as much as possible from personal anxieties which inevitably color one's perception. Disciplined study fosters involvement and frees us for detachment. 
The university provides the situation in which disciJJlined study can be undertaken. It makes available learned men to guide inquiry and the freedom from immediate pressure. 
But merely to uphold traditional education is not enough. The education we receive now has not conformed even to its own ideals. Criticism and imaginative reconstruction must always rework education afresh. So we too call for a "new education," but not one to deal exclusively with sexism, racism, and militarism. We call for revitalizing the traditional approaches to the wellsprings of knowledge and human understanding. 
Ideally then, study in the traditional d;_sciplines gives one a fuller perspective on reality than would an exclusive concentration on twentieth century problems. A mind so cultivated is capable of analysis without frenzy, judgment without prejudice, and an idealism tempered by wisdom. Approaching contemporary problems with this kind of perspective is the only way to effectually cope with them. Replacing the traditional curriculum with one more "relevant" wiil in fact impede the solution of the dilemmas which press in upon us. 
WEDNESDAY, MAY 6, 1970 TilE OBSERIJER. 
A review by obscure Gustis Tul/y 



PANORAMA 
We have always maintained a rather reserved attitude toward the cinema, having long ago recognized that it was a minor art form and that's that. Hut this is not to say that we do not occasionally go to the cinema to pass a pleasant afternoon, evening, morning or all three. 
The last time, however, we went to the cinema we were disappointed. We saw M*A *S*H and found it Jess than the "greatest war comedy since the invention of sotJnd" as the marquee (and the marquis) advertised; this is not to say we have any alternative contentors, ·merely, rather, than it is no kinda great flick. Its highpoints can be quickly and easily enumerated: liberal use of blood-letting (a medical procedure long in neglect), the resemblance between one of the leads and Dan Griffin, a personal friend of ours, and finnally the fact that nowhere in the film is the line "I've got the time, if you've got the money, honey" used. Its Jowpoints are beyond enumeration, although rough estimates vary from 13,415 to sixty-nine. 
That, however, was the last time and last Friday we decided to take the plunge again and give the whole art form an-as-it-were-once-over. We were going to see Richard Burton and Genevieve Bujold in Anne of a Thousand Days. Knowing that this movie was badly adapted from a bad play by Maxwell Anderson, generally a bad playwright, we weren't expecting much. When, however, we approached the theatre in question, The State, and saw that the marquee read Halls ofAnger we knew we should have expected even Jess. We supposed, you see, that the film thereby advertised was another H. P. Lovecraft science fantasy film, which is simply not our cup of tea. Fortunately it was not another H. P. Lovecraft science fantasy, but a film about blacks, social consciousness, racism and such. Originally, we had planned to dash off a review of how sick-making this rascist film, or rather, we should say, piece of crap, is, but we decided in the nonce (of which, more later) that it would not be worth the effort. It is a thoroughly revolting film and we advise you not to go see it if you take life seriously and 
probably even if you don't. Some of you out there, especially the little old ladies from Dubuque, are probably asking yourselves what we mean by rascist; here is some of what we mean: I. the star is a black athlete turned high school teacher, out to solve "their" problems, 2. the only books he can get kids in the II th grade to read are works of pornography, 3. the heroine looks like Diana Ross (which is probably not her fault, but true none the less), 4. the whites and the blacks hate each other even before so much as a Hello and don't stop hating each other, except to allow for nicely spaced cat-calls, of honkey-lover, spade-lover, etc. Anyway, we were sickened and if you trust us you won't go unless you want to be sickened, too. 
After seeing 1/alls ofAnger, we went to sec the much advertized Beatles films. Although we slept through most of the first one, dozed through the second and skipped the third and fouth entirely, Jet us tell you, there were serious questions raised about what kinda junk is this. The first film, presumably called Rape was about a German girl wandering around anywhere they would let her wander. She spoke no English except to say 
"I am so sorry I speak no English." 
She did, however, being a German girl, speak German; we, however, do not speak German, so much of the dialogue was, how you say, lost on us. If you happen to 
PAGE 5 

see the film, let us offer this brief guide to the most important portions of the dialogue, that is, the ones we understood: 
German English 
Sehr Very Vertligkeit Truth, reality, 
or beauty (depending on context) Sehr gut very good Haben Sie ein Feuer? 
Vous avez des ailluimets? Vertlig True, real or beautiful (depending on context) Sehr, sehr gut Freaky, too much, far out, heavvy, oh, wow 
She also spoke some ltalain; this was 

her strongest Italian line: 
Parle italiano? 

Which, literally translated, means, Do you have a light? The second Beatie film was too ineffably silly to talk about which brings me to my conclusion. I would like to cite two maxims of my old friend, St. Hilaire de Ia Grange, regarding all the junk we have just discussed at too great length. First, "If that's art, I don't like it." And second, "I don't know what it is, but it's not art." 

Mother's Day at AMERICA 
Concrete, artificial light and p;ocessed air are just a few of the stultifying elements that have gone into the making of "American" -but man cannot live on darkness, smoke and coffee alone. So American has designated that this Mother's Day should be a holy day of obligation, a day to commune with Mother Earth and Father Sea -a day at the Dunes. 
L 'odyssee du printemps will commence at 12:30 pm from the Stepan lot. Magic busses will transport the faithful to a very 
private beach somewhere near the palace of the sun god, Tan-Ia. Sensual delights will saturate the entire day --from hops 
to food to continuous entertainment by some of du lac's best and most popular perfomers. And the fun won't stop (ever) until long after the pilgrims have returned late Sunday night. 
There will be opportunit~s fur the Chosen Few to elect themselves by a process of self-nomination today and tomorrow at dinner in the dining hall lobbies. The initiation fee will be $3 and, it must be reiterated that there will be plenty of food and beverages available, so all that it is necessary to bring is yourself and your mother (or a mother surrogate). 
But, while ·America is transporting itself to the Dunes Sunday, this does not 

How to Tell if You Are Using Drugs 

Dear l'ete: 
l never thought l would be writing to you with a problem, but this one really has me worried. Lately, I have been having a lot of trouble communicating with my parents. In addition, my grades have been dropping, and I just don't care. I am beginning to suspect that I may be using drugs. What should I do? 
Questioning 
Dear Quest: 
Every day I get letters from anxious students who arc concerned by this very 
problem. I have set them down before, but here again arc a few signs to watch for: , 
Are you restless,-keeping odd hours, acting agitated at one moment and 
withdrawn the next? Do you wear sunglasses, even indoors, at night and on overcast 
days? This may be an attempt to hide bloodshot eyes. Do you constantly wear long 
sleeved shirts, even in the shower? You may be hiding needle marks or "tracks" as· 
they arc called. Do these words appear to melt, breathe or slide to the bottom of. 
the page? 
Learn to recognize marijuana. Marijuana, or "cannabis", "pot", "boo", "tea", 
"dope", "grass", "mary jane", "Rosamaria", "smoke", "stuff", "weed", 'alfalfa", 
"timothy", 'clover", or "dung", as it is called, is a plant which is six to ten feet tall 
and very leafy. If you find anything resembling this in your pockets, in your 
drawers, or in the pockets of your drawers, it is probably marijuana. 
Lysergic acid, LSD, or "acid" is a powder, a tablet, or a liquid which may be 
coloured or colourless. It is tasteless and odorless and may be placed on food, in 
drinks, or absorbed through the soles of the feet. 
It is a good practice to carry a small bird or mouse in your pocket at all times, to sample your food. Watch the animal closely, noting his reactions. Be sure to allow twenty minutes to an hour and a half for the potential drug to take effect. If you notice any change in behaviour on the part of the animal, DO NOT EAT THE FOOD. It may contain drugs. On the other hand, it may not. To be perfectly certain, it is best to carry two birds or mice, and to use one as a control. 
Marijuana smoke or TliC vapour can be induced into the air. For this reason, it is wise to block off all ventilation to your room before going to sleep at night. A plumber should check your taps regularly to ensure that your drinking water is not being tampered with. Check under your bed at night for hidden pushers. 
No matter how much love and care your parents give you, you can still turn out to be a drug user. Beverly Hills, California, despite the wonderful lives its children lead, has one of the biggest drug problems in the nation. Don't be misled by your apparent happiness. Remember, happiness is subjective, but drugs are real. 
(Reprints of this article may be obtained by writing to Box 159, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Enclose $27.50 to cover postage and handling.) 
mean .that the coffee house won't be 
Concert -the perfect place to come and 
open Friday and Saturday nights -far 
relax, have a pizza, and talk over the
from it. In fact America is offerning a 
evening.
special half-price rate after the Pet Clark 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 




SLE: 

STRIKE 
by Bass Rumore 
Observer Features Phantom 
SLERT chancellor Mike Kelly pledged last night his support and the support of his organization for the Student Strike. "We favor the student strike and all it stands for," the Flint, Mich., senior said, "and We urge our fellow students to join us in not only missing classes but burning books in the cause of peace." Kelly announced in the same statement that he had enrolled SLERT in the national "burn a book for Christian education crusade." 
"I as an individual, as a student leader, and as president of my own little student body--three persons in one divine being--I demand that this campus make known to Mr. Nixon where we stand on racism, Sexism, militarism, imperialism, Cambodianism, Vietnamism, educationism, stupidism, informalism, structurism, and jargon ism. I demand nothing short of immmediate Notre Dame succession from the United States. Given Fr. Hesburgh 's support, I suggest we hand together in his office, protected by a contingent of Swiss guards. 
"I, I and I stand for complete informality in education. Classes should be suspended so that we can go down to the lawn and rap with the chipmunks. If we arc not allowed to do this, SLERT dema.nd that the school he burned to ashes." 
Asked what he thought of professors cancelling classes they were contracted to teach, Kelly said, ' It is time for education to become informal. We must educate the people! Otherwise, how will they know the evil of our present days?" 
Kelly had this to say about Nixon's Cambodian move: "It was an unprincipalled violation of moria I w­the seventh commandment, 'Thou shalt not destroy Communist bases in Cambodia,' which Moses got from Gene McCarthy many ages ago." 
After reading his statement, Kelly said in a provate interview, "I agonized over this decision for a long time. I wanted to get out of the war, hut I didn't know if sgriking, firebombing the ROTC building, and book-burning was the best way to register my protest." Asked after this astonishing admission why he had allowed the doubt to remain unresolved in his mind for so long, Kelly confc~sed. 
"I always wanted to the the publisher of a major college newspaper." 
SLERT MANIFESTO: 

DON CARTER STRIKES MOHAMMUD All STRIKES DAVE NICHOLSON STRIKES 


Mr. Goodbar says: 
GO STRIKE YOURSElf! 
Do it today! 
~--­
PAGE 6 WEDNESDAY, MAY 6,1970


THE OBJ'ERI1IIt 
Seek to determine Guard motive 
(continued from page 3) 
."dissent turns to violence, it invites tragedy.;, 
Commenting on the Kent State student deaths Monday, Vice President Spiro T. Agnew said he had tieen warning about the dangers of "the new politics of violence and confrontation." 
Now the powderkeg has exploded, resulting in tragedy that was "predictable and avoidable," he said. 
"At this point, the assignment of fault will not restore the young lives wasted," he said in remarks which prefaced a speech 
"In any event, we must have the most effective and impartial investigation. All of us as parents are grieved and shocked by the tragedy." 
Brig. Gen. Robert Canterbury, commanding the guardsmen, told newsmen the shooting began when a group of l 0 0 guardsmen found themselves virtually surrounded by about 600 student demonstrators pelting them with rock pieces of concrete. 
Canterbury said a singe! shot preceded the guardsmen's volley. He said he did not know 

of candidates neglected to 
four candidates as run­
on a ticket. They are Steve 

Palluca, Richard Ritchea, Gary 
Little, and Kevin Muse, running 
for Sophomore Class President, 
;,.P'-'"'''"~;rt,•nt, Secretary, and ITrew;;urc~r respectively. 
!i!FISF. 

(continued from page 1) 
the problems that they were unable to solve "so that they can centralize on the one issue that they can win on-the only issue that they can win on, the issue that describes people in the terms that the vice-president used again the other night when he spoke of the fact that the problems of the country were all traceable to the hippies, the yippies, the complainers and the protesters." 
Lowenstein continued, "Now I've tried to think since that remarkable announcement of all the problems that confront the United States ... and I've won­dered which of the problems would go away if we had no hippies, and no yippies, and no complainers and no protesters." 
The answer to Agnew's type of logic, he said, "is to focus on the things that they can't solve and not give them the ammuni­tion to split the country apart." 
In reference to the "win or get out" thinking of many Americans, he said, "I think it is time to assume the good will of the people who have thought that way and explain to them explicitly why our position means that they should now be with us. The United States is not going to win the war in Viet­
nam." 
And therefore, he said, "When people say win or get out, it ought to be our job to explain to them the very simple fact that they ought now to be saying the President has committed himself to not try and win the war. It is accepted in the wrong frame to go on extending the war. You do not shorten the war by widening its reach. You do not fool the American people about your goal by pretending that you are leaving and then going on and on and on in a method that cannot win and cannot end the war." 
Lowenstein also said that the House r~solution to seek peace in Southeast Asia through free elections was a sham. He went into the . dishonesty of the Thieu-Ky election to illustrate his conception of a "free elec­tion in Vietnam." 
But he added "Why do you think that they talk about free elections in Vietnam in the resolution? Because they want the American people to think there's something virtuous about what we're doing in Vietnam. 
That's what they want people to 
think.  They  want  people  to  
believe  that  we're  defending  
democracy."  

"They can't tell people," he shouted, "that there is no reason on earth for anybody from this country to die in Vietnam anymore." 
The statement drew a one minute standing ovation. 
After his address, the rally at Notre Dame broke up and the majority of the nearly I ,000 participants marched to St. Mary's, passing the ROTC build­ing on the way. 


Cambodia endorses Allied offensives 
SAIGON (UPI)-U.S. and South Vietnamese forces reported seizing two major Com­munist staging areas in Cam­bodia yesterday and military sources said thousands of Amer­icans in a third offensive across the border cut part of the Ho Chi Minh supply trail. 
Cambodia, fighting its own war against Communist forces 
guardsman or someone else. He said the students were not 
warned  before  the  shooting  
began.  
Many  eyewitnesses  reported  

about half the guardsmen fired their rifles into the air, well over the heads of the students, while others fired straight into the milling crowd of boys and girls. 
This circumstance gave rise to the speculation that some of the guardsmen, in the noise and confusion, misunderstood a command to fire warning shots into the air, and instead shot to kill. 
First reports from the campus Monday said two of the four victims were guardsmen. Joseph Durbin, Kent State's chief information officer, who issued the report to newsmen, later attributed it to "a rumor." 
Joseph Durban, Kent State's assistant public information officer, said today some unautthorized person" may have issued the erroneous early report on the two guardsmen being killed. He denied he issued such a report. 
"Two men dropped from exhaustion," Durban said. "One of the men had a heart attack." 
The rolling green campus of the university was virtually deserted yesterday except for guardsmen in jeeps and armored personnel carriers. President Robert I. White closed the university immediately after the shooting and instructed all students to leave campus before nightfall and remain at their homes until Monday. 

A judge issued an injunction ordering the campus cleared by noon today. 
An 8 pm curfew was imposed on Kent and Ravenna, and persons attempting to enter either two were halted at police barricades on the outskirts. 
Krashna gives support 
advancing to within 30 miles of Phnom Penh, reversed its stand and endorsed the Allied offen­sives ordered by President Nixon to destroy Red sanctuaries along the South Vietnamese border. 
Phnom Penh dispatches des­cribed the situation as "extreme­ly grave" and United Nations Secretary General Thant said in New York it was even more dangerous than the "one that ravaged Indochina before 1954." He urged an immediate peace conference. 
Official communiques said the three pronged Allied offensives into Cambodia in the Parrot's Beak, the Fishhook and the new front along the Se San River had killed 2,414 North Vietnamese and Viet Cong, captured 5 26 and deprived the Communists of 4,313 weapons, 540 tons of ammunition, rice and medical supplies and 61 trucks. 
American losses were reported as 16 killed, and those for South Vietnamese units as 170 killed and 65 l wounded. 
The Allies were racing against time, hoping to complete the 
season starts and turns the 
jungles into quagmires inpassable 
for tanks. The rains are expected 
to come in the next few weeks. 
The 15,000 man South Viet­namese force in the Parrot's Beak where operations began on April 29 reported seizing the Communist base at Ba Thu four miles inside Cambodia. It was described as the principal staging area for the communist Tet offensive in 1968 and the main headquarters for training Viet Cong Commandos. 

In the Fishhook, tank crews of the U.S. II th Armored Cavalry Regiment leading a force of 15,000 American and South Vietnamese troops pushed to the outskirts of Snoul 21 miles 
inside Cambodia late yesterday and occupied its airstrip. 
Snoul has been a Communist stronghold for years and its fall was considered a major victory in the Fishhook offensive which began last Thursday. 
Th d · t t d T

e new nve, s ar e ues­day, sent a force of 6,000 men from the U.S. 4th Infantry Division and the South Viet-
ll===========================~=o=f=fu=n=s=~=e=s=b=e=fu=r=e=t=h=e=m~o=n=s=o=o=n~ume~ 22nd Infun~ D~is~n 
into Cambodia at a point about 50 miles west of the South Vietname~ city of Pleiku on the

AMERICA Is moving to 
Central Highlands. South Vietnamese com­manders said troops in the new operation were not looking for heavy resistance on the ground.

the DUNES (May 10). Come along. 
"We're after installations, not personnel." one officer told UPI

lgnups Wed. + Thurs. at the 
correspondent Robert E. Sul­livan. 
The officer said troops had moved through jungles con-


Dining Halls or call 8357 
taining an extension of the Ho Chi Minh trail in the area. 
The Ho Chi Min Trail is a network of jungle passages winding out of North Vietnam through Laos and Cambodia with hundreds of entry points along more than 800 miles of ill defined frontier. 
Military sources said elements of North Vietnam's 24th, 28th, and 66th Regiments were bel­eived in the jungled mountain region along the Se San River. Some of these troops were believed to have taken part in the siege of the Bu Prang Green Beret camp in South Vietnem last year. 
The allied force was author­ized to move as far as six miles into Cambodia in an area 60 miles long and 20 miles deep. 

Lowenstein 

(continued from page 1) 
government without the support of the people is an act of imposing a government on the people of South Vietnam 
He said the logic of President Nixon's decision to send troops into Cambodia was uncomprehensible. Lowenstein questioned the reasoning that led Laird to wnclude that the United St.ates could enlarge its field of operations while decreasing troop strength and accomplish what five years of concentrated war had been unable to do -force Hanoi to seck peace. 
Lowenstein drew a five 
minute standing ovation at the 
end of his talk. 



THE OBSERVER. 
PAGE 7
WEDNESDAY, MAY 6, 1970 




Faculty Senate calls for general meeting 
by Greg Pughorodsky 

In a spel:ial session last night, the Fat:ulty Senate met and det:idcd on the wurse of at:tion they would follow cont:erning the strike situation fat:ing the 
University. 

The major proposals passed by the Senate t:alled for the entire fat:ulty to meet in a general meeting, tentatively set for oue o'cloc.;k this afternoon. The Senate also urged that all memhers of the fat:ulty "set aside business as usual to partic.;ipate in hall adivities and disc.;ussions on May 6 and 7." 
i\ rtcr considerahle debate the group also voted to rcc.;ornmend that "the fac.;ulty as a whole support Father lleshurgh 's statement of May 4." 
Professor Massey, Chairman of the Student l.ife Council, addressed the meeting in its early stages, and attempted to explain the statement issued by the SLC Monday whit:h resulted in the suspension of yesterday's dasses. lie lauded SBP President, Dave Krashna, to bat:k off from his initial de~.:ision of an indefinite strike in favor of a two day period of personal thought. 
The Exec.:utive Coordinator of the Student (;overnment, Chut:k Ryan, followed and said that the action taking plat:e on campus was a spontaneous one. He t:ontinued that at present it was "a movement without diret:tion." Ryan t:ited the faculty as 'the logit:al group to supply this leadership. 
Quoting from a personal conversation which took place earlier in the day Ryan said that Father Hesburgh felt that he had done all that he could and that he now hoped that the situation would take on two new aspects. The first was that the halls would make a move to draw the student away from the rally type atmosphere to a more individual approach. The second point was that the faculty, as a part of the Notre Dame cornmu ni ty, become involved in the educational experience. 
Professor William Storey was the first to propose the general meeting. He asked the members of the Senate to realize the "depty of emotion" experienced hy many of the students because of the happenings of the past couple of days, and to realize the undesirahle alternative possible if their confl ids and questions are not met. 
Professor Storey went on to say that he felt that Father llesburgh had made his stand and was waiting for support and diredion. 
The debate which followed the proposals was rather lengthy. 
'Some expressed the wonder as whether the meeting could be arranged effectively on such short notice. Others doubted the merit of the results of such a meeting. The proposal was bassed by a 24-1 S vote. After an amendment to the effect that a committee would be formed which, besides deciding on the details of communication, time, and place, would also strudure a rigid format in order to derive maximum benefit from the 
meeting. 

Members of the Senate were split on the matter of ret:ommending support of· Father llesburgh's statement. Besides those who disagreed with its context many, though stating that they felt much on the same lines as Father Hesburgh, contested his right as president of the university to state it. The proposal was finally passed by a 22-15 margin with three abstentions. 
The meeting had a stormy conclusion when Professor John Williams of the History Department, passed out a proposal that the Senate move "to suspend classes until ROTC be abolished on the campus of the University of Notre Dame." The motion though seconded received no other support and its validity was questioned on the basis that the ROTC had been settled hy the Fat·ulty Senate · last year. 

Nixon: troops out of Cambodia in 7 weeks 
W ASIIINGTON (UPI) Presi­gress that U.S. troops would dent Nixon t:ountered severe 
leave Cambodia within a matter criticism yesterday with assur­of weeks and that withdrawls ances to key members of Con-from South Vietnam would continue on schedule. In other statements here and at the United Nations, the administration sought to ease fears that the Cambodian opera­
Fulbright reluctantly agreed 
to join what he regards as a 
''hriefing" rather than the pri­
vate consulations with Nixon 
that his own small committee 
had requested on the contro­
versy. 
Several participants in the 
morning session said Nixon gave 
what one described as a "firm 
commitment" that he would . 
abide by his promise last week 
that the Cambodian operation 
would end after six to eight 
weeks. 
Reps. Edward F. IIebert, D La., and Richard II. lchord, D Mo., quoted Nixon as saying he was pleased with the initial success of the efforts to wipe out Communist supplies and communications facilities in headquarters areas across the Cambodian border with South Vietnam. 

lie added that this success means the U.S. troop withdrawal can proceed on its present timetable of an additional 150,000 men during the next 12 • months, they said. 
The 60 members of Congress, including the Democratic and · Republican leaders of both houses, were briefed by Nixon, 
·Defense · Secretary Melvin R. Laird, and Gen. Earle G. Wheel­er, retiring chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Nixon answered tion was a widening of the Southeast Asian conflict by saying it was "restricted in extent, purpose and time." 


A two hour White House breakfast meeting with members of the Senate and House Armed Services Committees left Nixon's hawkish supporters more con­vinced than ever that his Cam­bodian decision was militarily correct. But not all doubt was dispelled. 
"It was dreamland," said Rep. Lucian Nedzi, D Mich. "It was pretty hard to equate such statements as we will not get bogged down . in a war in Cambodia with the invasion of Cambodia." 
The session was followed by a late afternoon Presidential meet­ing with members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the critical Senate Foreign Rela­tions Committee, whose chari­man, Sen. J. William Fulbright, D Ark., regards the Cambodian operation as unconstitutional and a presidential usurpating of 

Congress' war m questions the last 35 minutes. 
Lowenstein: .. There is no reMOn for anybody from this 
FINANCE CLUB OF NOTR'E DAME 
country to die in Vietnam anymore." 
IS NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR

Says sanctuary should be created 
priorities would be necessary. 
(continued from page 2) Mark Winings, Student Body leadership." McCarthy pointed Vice-president, mentioned that out that at Notre Dame there is the student government budget "a well articulated moral base" is to be used for what the 
in the just war theory of the students wnat. 
Church. Dave Krashna, Mark Winings, 
Secondly, the sanctuary Professor McCarthy, and 
would possess a good legal base, Reverend Maurice Amen met 
McCarthy said, because of what with Father Hesburgh at 10:00 
is viewed by many as the last night to discuss the unconstitutionality of the sanctuary proposal. "If we can present C.O. law. The religious create a sanctuary here, it will 
basl·s of · ns ·1·e t' b' t' have to come as a result of 
. co ~.: n wus o Jec 1on 
has heen J·udged by mostly student initiative," said
many
legalists to be in violation of the one student. First Amendment, which forbids McCarthy the establishment of religion, especially condemned the means Mt:Carthy said. of the Vietnam War, daiming 
The sanctuary would have a that the deaths of over one great amount of "moral suasion" million Vietnamese citizens because the members of this attests to the fact that the 
MEMBERSHIP 
FOR 1970-71
United States is engaged in "the large scale destruction of civilian 
APPLICATION FORMS IN THE populations," which Vatican II 
LOBBY OF COMMERCE BLDG. 
explicitly condemned. McCarthy 
For information call
suggested that those people that are presently considered 
Bruce 6896 8251 Mike criminals of the state are not the 
George 1322 8409 Ken 
rea criminals-that President 
Nixon and the propagators of 
the war are the real criminals. 
McCarthy expressed fear that today's march on downtown South Bend would become 
violent due to psychology." 
McCarthy warned of 
possibility that certain actions 
on the part of the police or 
students druing the march could 
provide a catalyst for massive 
violence. 
community are respected by the ,-j~jiiiz=j~~~~r-~:..:._------------~ 
NOW SHOWING 
LIMITED ENGAGEMENT 
CHARLTON HESTON 
JACK HAWKINS 
citizenry, McCarthy said. I In the question period, McCarthy was asked about the practical difficulties of a sanctuary. He indicated that a certina rearranging of finandal  MON.· THURS. 7:30 FRI.-8:00 SAT. -SUN. 1:00. 4:30. 8:00  
FOUND i\ pair of girls glasses in front of Washington llall. To reclaim: Call Steve, H624  


711B OBSERVER WEDNESDAY, MAY 6,1970
PAGE 8 



Irish get back at State, finally 
by Jim Donaldson Observer Sportswrfter 
Bill Orga's tenth inning single brought horRe Chuck Horan from second base with the winning run as the Fighting Irish baseball team outslugged Michi­gan State 9-8 yesterday after­noon at Cartier Field. The Irish, unbeaten in seven home games, upped their season record to 8-ll by coming out on top in the see-saw battle that had the lead change hands three times. 
The first two Irish batters were out in the tenth frame before Horan got things rolling by hitting a soft line single to right field. Horan took a wide turn at first and when the MSU right fielder attempted to make a play on Chuck the ball sailed over the State first sacker's head and allowed Horan to move to second base. The Spartans then gave Phill Krill an intentional pass in order that the left-handed Orga would have to bat against the Spartans left-handed relief hurler Bob Clancy. Orga responded to the challenge by rapping a sharp line single between first and second. A strong peg from Ron Pruitt almost nailed Horan at the plate but Chuck's head first slide carried him across the dish before the tag. 
The game was a real slugfest with both clubs belting a pair of homers and rapping out 27 hits between them, 14 by the Irish and 13 by MSU. 
The Spartans wasted no time in getting on the scoreboard, tallying three runs in their first time at bat on a pair of Irish errors and a homer to left field by Pruitt. 
Notre Dame responded by picking up a pair of runs in their half of the first stanza. Rob Voitier drew a walk to open the inning. Joe Keenan's single and Horan's walk filled the sacks with two out. Krill plated one -un by rapping a sharp single to left and the second Irish run of the inning came home on a wild pitch by Spartan starter Dave 
Bewley. 
The Spartans upped their lead to 4-2 by notching a single run in the second inning off Irish starter Ron Schmitz. Steve Cerez' ·single, an Irish error, and Rich Vary's single accounted for the tally. 
The Irish closed the gap to 4-3 in the third frame, J'icking up a run on a walk to Rich Lucke, who then stole second base, and Orga's double to left center. 
Notre Dame flexed their mus­cles at the plate in the fourth stanza, clubbing back-to-back homers after two were out and taking a 6-4 lead. Keenan lined a two out single and crossed the plate ahead of Rich Lucke after the Irish center fielder drilled his third homerun of the season, a 330 foot shot to right. Horan gave the Spartans no time to recover, following Lucke's round tripper by beltin·g a four bagger of his own, well over the fence in right center, 35 5 feet away. 
The Spartans began to chip away at the two-run Irish advan­tage in their next trip to the plate, notching a solo run in the top of the fifth on singles by Vary and Bob Ellis and a sacrifice fly by Pruitt. 
Michigan State regained the lead by tallying two runs in the top of the seventh. Three straight singles by Vary, Ellis and Pruitt before any batters were retired plated one run and a wild pitch by Schmitz brought in the second Spartan run and put them on top 7-6. 
The Irish bounced right back however, regaining the lead with a pair of tallies in their half of the seventh. 
The Irish are in action this afternoon, traveling to Hillsdale College and returning home Thursday to entertain the Uni­versity of Detroit in a 3 p.m. contest. 
Gentlemen... the sale is on! Our Pre-Summer 
QUALITY SALE 
of famous make 

SUITS, SPORTCOATS, ALL-WEATHER COATS 
at savings of 


1/4 
1/3 
A bona fide offering of the latest styles, fabrics and colorings, all from our regular stocks. Use your Campus Shop account.. .it's open. 

ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DA 
~-------------------­

by Milton Richman UPI Sportswriter NEW YORK (UPI) -The New York Knicks gazed at Willis Reed, their fallen leader and MVP, lying there on the floor trying to blink back the pain and obviously finished for the night, maybe~~ven for the whole works, and they came to a rather natural conclusion. They figured they were all done. That's right, kaput. They gave up. Maybe that doesn't quite square with Monday's final score at Madison Square Garden when they eventually came from far back to wallop the Los Angeles Lakers, I 07-1 00, and go ahead, 
l 
¥ • 
I 

three games to two for the NBA title in one of the most exciting basketball contests of the past ten years, but the only possible explanation for what the Kicks did is maybe they forgot they gave up. 
The Knicks weren't the only ones who felt it was goodbye ballgame after Reed came up with that severe muscle con­tusion in his right hip late in the first quarter. 
There wasn't a soul in the sellout crowd of 19,500 who'd give you an inflated nickel for the Knicks chances at that time, especially since they were down ten points already, weren't shooting particularly well and · oth Wilt Chamberlain and Jerry West looked as if they had come to play. 
Dave Stallworth was one of the Knicks who had that sinking feeling when Reed was ushered to the team's dressing room by trainer Danny Whelan and nobody who knows about Stallworth will ever question his 
moxie, because he made it all 
the way back after being out 
two years with a heart con­
dition. 
With Reed out, the Lakers 
changed their tactics and tried to 
get the ball in to Chamberlain, 
but they forgot to keep running 
and in the end that is what beat 
them. 
Stallworth was particularly devastating in the final twelve points for the night. But he did an even bigger job guarding Chamberlain, holding the Laker center scoreless in the final quarter. 
Stallworth did his job and did 
it well. Everything the Lakers 
did in that final quarter went 
haywire. They scored only 18 
points. 
''We just fell apart," said Jerry 
West. "I'm not sure they (the 
Knicks) could do that again, but 
they did it. You gotta give 'em 
credit. We just died." 

MAJOR LEAGUES 
NATIONAL LEAGUE  AMERICAN LEAGUE  
East  East  
w  L  Pet.  GB  w  L  Pet.  GB  
Chicago  13  9  .591  Baltimore  15  8  .652  
New York  12  12  .500  2  *Detroit  13  8  .619  1  
Philadelphia  12  12  .500  2  *Boston  12  9  .571  2  
Pittsburgh  11  13  .458  3  *Washington 12  11  .522  3  
St. Louis  10  12  .454  3  *New York  13  12  .520  3  
*Montreal  6  15  .286  6%  Cleveland  9  12  .429  5  

West West Cincinnnti *Minnesota 14 7 .667
21 6 .777 Atlanta 14 11 .560 6 *California 14 8 .636 y, 
Los Angeles 13 11 .542 6% *Oakland 11 13 .458 4Y, *San Fran. 12 14 .462 8% *Chicago 9 13 .409 5% Houston 12 15 .444 9 Kansas City 8 15 .348 7 
San Diego 10 16 .385 10% *Milwaukee 5 19 .208 10% 
Atlanta 12 Pittsburgh 6 Baltimore 7 Kansas City 3 Cincinnati 5 St. Louis 1 Minnesota 7 Detroit2, 5th inn. Houston 3 Chicago 1 Boston 5 Milwaukee 0, 8th inn. San Diego 11 Philadelphia 8 Chicago 2 Cleveland 1, 7th inn. 
Los AngeltJs 4 New York 0 New York 1 Oakland 1, 2nd inn. San Francisco 3 Montreal 0, 7th inn. Washington at California, night 






