
VOL. IV, NO. 95 
Forum slated to gather informatior 
by Greg l'odhorodsky 
Assistant Professor Donald Question and answer period Sniegowski, Chairman of the 
University Forum, and the Speaking on what she felt coordinators Sister Suzanne were weaknesses in the initial Kelly and graduate student, meeting, Sister Suzanne pointed Joseph Kelly, yesterday to such factors as "that often announced the schedule and the discussions were opened aims of tomorrow's session. before the issues were stated," 
Both Professor Sneigowski and that at times the discussions and Sister Suzanne emphasized be~:ame "question and answer the role of the upcoming periods." meeting as an information Sister Suzanne went on to say gathering forum. They cited the that "a lack of preparation" fact that none of the scheduled hampered the effectiveness of spt:akers were Forum members the last session. The members and that the members, though hope to compensate for this hy a th~:y will be open to comment private meeting after the public 
.Fr' 
on the topics, will not answer session to outline future forums. 
dlred questions from the floor. The University Forum meets tommorow afternoon from 2-S P.M. in an informal session. 
Basic concerns of the people Public session from 2-5 P.M. 
Hesburgh to be on draft panel
Sister Suzanne commented 
that the forum will wnsider no Tomorrow's forum will be 
topic in particular but would 

divided into four parts beginning Assistant Professor of History. 
leadership of Professor Charles rather fo~.:us its intentions on with a private lunch for the by H.T. Hufendick Brian Mcinerney and Mike McCarthy are trying to get the· "basic concerns of the people of 
members in the Morris Inn Bayer, both of whom were pre­
A forum on the draft will be United States Senate to consi­Notre Dame." She enumerated followed by the public session viously scheduled to appear on
held tonight at 7 PM in Stepan der. Me Carthy is the head of the
the Nutting-for-President 

which will run from 2 P.M. to 5 the panel, will be replaced by
Center with a panel that includes Department for the Study of the movement and the Arts Council 

P.M. The members will then John Yoder, Mennonite minister
Notre Dame's President Father Non-Violent Resolution of among these subjects. She band into four groups and go to Theodore M. Hesburgh. and Associate Professor of Theo­Human Conflict. Father Hes­expressed the hope that the 
the dining halls in order to logy and Thomas Shaffer, As­
Tonight's Forum will initiate burgh has been serving on the forum will serve as the catylyst p ro,ide for what Professor sociate Dean of the Law School. Commission a President
the March Moratorium and Gates for opening discussion on these Sneigowski says is "a po&<>ibility In November Shaffer helped
Anti-Draft Week, according to panel charged with studying the 
concerns. 

for the members to meet the Schoaf. draft a proposal bill for selective feasibility of all volunteer
co-ordinator Tom He an The final University Forum of students on a more informal said that he hoped that the conscientious objection which a armed force. Their report issued the year is tentatively set for basis. After dinner the members group of Notre Dame students
events of this week would "start recently came out in favor of the 

April2Sandit~thehopeofthe will meet to formulate plans for people thinking again after the and faculty members under the (continued on page 7)
members that tomorrow's the upcoming forum. 
long winter." 
meeting will dedde on one topic 

The topic for tonight's discus­which will serve as a base for a A II are invited to attend 
sion will be: "What do you be­thorough examination by the 
Obligations discussed
lieve to be the legitimacy of, and 
final forum. What that topic is The public session will take 
alternatives to, the draft, spedfi­
should be announced to the place in the lecture room of the 
cally as a t:hanneling agent to 
University either prior to the HaYes-Healy Center. Sister 
procure soldiers for the War in 
by Mark Day

Easter vacation or immediately Suzanne stated that "the not allow him to believe in the
Vietnam?" 

f 0 11 0 wing it. professor University forum invites and Among those appearing on Three students, Tom Zang, so-called "military-industrial Sneigowski expressed the view en~.:ourages anyone who has an Mark Mahoney, and Chuck complex." He also defended
the pand besides Father Hes­

that this should allow the opinion to express on the topi~.:s R.O.T.C. on campus, saying
burgh are Joseph R. Maio, Darst, presen ted diverse 

to being considered tomorrow to that, like engineering and Busi­
members sufficient time Assistant Professor of Military viewpoints on the military 
arrange to be at the session." ness Administration, it teaches
research the topic. Science and John Williams, obligation facing every young how "to do, not to think."
man today. As part of the Junior Parents Weekend activities, over Mark Mahoney, a student who

Shannon speaks on church renewal 300 people listened to these plans to seek a Conscientious young men explain why they Objector deferment, considered
by Jell" Noon.111 

he voluntarily resigned his post governing their constitutents, made the decision they did con­the prohlem of what it truly Dr. James 1'. Shannon, in his of auxiliary bishop of the St. and colleg~: and university offi­cerning the draft and their mili-means to he a Christian. lie first public appearance in over a Paul-Minneapolis diocese and cials are finding increasing pro­tary obligation. · stated that from the New Testa­
Year, said last night in Washing­

left the ministery of the Church. blems in the administration of Tom Zang, an Air Force ment, we can get a feeling of ton llall that renewal in the Dr. Shannon saw an analogy their duties in their institutions, R.O.T.C. student who signed his how Christ would act. Mark con-· Catholic Church is moving at too between the problems facing so arc Church officials finding contrad with the Air Force last tended that a man cannot kill 
slow a pa~.:e. goVClll!nent and the universities dissent, intoleran~.:e and threat of fall, emphasized that what he for a system, for then it becomes 
Dr. Shannon has received and the troubles the Church is schism in the Catholic Church said was not representing the a god. lie says, "I cannot ~.:onsi­many a~.:adcmic awards, includ­experiencing. As government said Shannon. military in any way, but was his der my neighbor as an object ­ing an honorary degree from officials arc admitting to almost Many very well-meaning and own explanation of a very per­as a Communist, an enemy. If I Notre Dame. In August of 196'), sonable dt:cision. He maintained do, I deny the presence of (;od
insurmountable difficulties in serious reformers are attempting to revise the Churt:h and arc fail­that his vot:ational interest in in him." math and science, his parents
ing miserably because of a lack lie goes on to say that he instilling in him a "deep obliga­could not usc violence, that he
of knowledge <~nd responsibility tion to serve my ~.:ountry", and must try to overt:ume war in
but the idea many of these per­background as name
sons arc presenting arc along the his a debater "the of humanity and of right line said Dr. Shannon. which could not logically lead the gospel." 
him away from the status quo,
there is a tide, he said, which Mark states that in the U.S. in this case, the military, led him
is "growing and irresistable" that there is an alternative to all of to this d\:cision. He went on to
is demanding of the Church and this --the status of Conscien­involvement of all of its people. say that the fat:! that his sister tious Objector. He quotes John 
This tide is involving many per­was a nurse in Da Nang and that F. Kennedy in saying "War will 
sons, it is of "just causes'. and his brother was.also in R.O.T.C. exist until the day when the 
"will he recognit.ed" he said. also influenced his dcdsion. C.O. enjoys the same prestige as 
Chur~.:h law of the past look Tom denied many of the a warrior docs today." charges often leveled against a
few of the individual's rights "To end the war," he contin­military life. lie stated that he
into at:t:ount. Dr. Shannon com­ues, "we must stop doing those pared the Canon Law of the does not believe that the war in things which cause war." lie Churt:h and the Anglo-Saxon conducted by calling on all the Common L<Jw in which there is, Vietnam is immoral, and in fact, p<Jrents present to help find a at limes, complete opoosi lion. stated that the U.S. presence totally new set of values. "We The Catholic Church has there is justified. He t:ontends need you now more than ever." (continued on page 2) that his faith in his country will (continued on page 7 J 


711£ OBSERVER. MONDAY, MARCH 16. 1970
PAGE 2 


Co-education at Notre Dame


ENROLL 
discussed by students, parents 
by Floyd Kezele 
In an attempt to give parents


HERE 
an insight into the various as­pects of "Coeducation and Notre Dame" a panel discussion was presented Saturday, March 14 at the Center for Continuing

THIS 
Education. Presented by the Junior Parent's Weekend Com­mittee, the event was attended by approximately ISO people. 
The panel, with the exception of Dr. Peter Grande, Admissions Director, was made up entirely of Notre Dame-St. Mary's stu­dents. Tom Oliveri served as moderator. Representing the divergent views were Dee Bacon and John McDougall, Anti­Coeducation; Sheilagh Cronin and Ian Pearson, Pro-Coeduca­tion. 
Panel moderator Tom Oliveri began the discussion by presen­ting a brief outline to the parents of the various steps towards coeducation which are already being studied. At the conclusion of his opening remarks, Oliveri turned the program over to Dee Bacon and the Anti-Coeducation forces. 
Miss Bacon began by attack­ing the belief that "separation of the sexes on an educational level is obsolete." She contended that while the multiversity has a definite place in modern society, the small secular college must be maintained for "individuals who cannot receive the integral education they need at a large multiversity." Moreover, she stated that as a student at St. Mary's and the experiments in coeducation in the past three years, she has been intimidated the presence of boys in her classes. Miss Bacon stated that from a woman's point of view, a very important argument against coeducation would be the competition forced on the coed, and the resultant loss of 

SUMMER. 





COI.l.EGIAT£ JAZZ FESTIVAl. -1970 
opportunities for the expression McDougall pointed out that in of the female point of view discussions with his frit:nds, he solely among girls. sensed that the suppJrt for 
At this point, John McDougall coeducation was only for a presented the male argument social aspect and not of an edu.. against coeducation by pointing cational nature. Among other to the uniqueness of Notre concerns mentioned by Dame as an all male institution. McDougall was that if Notrf: He explained that this discussion Dame deserted the other all male of coeducation was one which schools, "They could not survive could only involve Notre Dame by themselves if the fraternity of and because of this involved Notre Dame was no longer many special problems. around. Although he agreed that the "The lack of the male view-­exchange of male and female point is damaging," according to viewpoints was indeed bene­Sheilagh Cronin, and "must be ficial, it was not totally neces­present for a girl to n:ceive a sary for a total education. (continued on page 3 j 
Shannon for reform cites progress made 
(continued from page 1) 
found itself at odds with the implementation· of the basic rights of the individual into its system, but Shannon stated that the Universal meeting of bis­hops, Vatican II, has indicated that this implementation must occur. 
Through Pope John XXIII and his calling of the Council, the Catholic Church has been forced into a great dialogue with the world it exists in he said. The Council not only opened a window to let a breath of fresh air into the Church, said Shan­non, but also opened a window which allowed the Church to look out into the world and life. 
He cited examples of the di­versity between the Church's di­rective especially Humanae Vitae, and the actions of its members which he said is con­fusing and alienating many of its'l members. 
The solutions to these pro­
blems are being implemented in 
many areas today, and the Church is moving towards a renewal. This renewal is slow, not always right, but necessary he claimed. 
He cited the National Pastoral Council of the Netherlands, the National Federation of Priest's Council and The Sisters of the Immaculate Heart of Mary as movements that will forward the Church's progress. 
Dr. Shannon praised the con­
temporary scholars of today's Church as one of the most im­portant aspe<.:ts of Church reform. There is hope and a de­finite future for the Catholic Church in the world, ht added, through work and cooperation 
of the hierarchy and the lay Church. 
Dr. Shannon in response to an audience question said Catholic secondary and higher education is necessary not only for Cathol­ics but also for the n1tion in general. He actded that Notre Dame was one of the most im­portant Catholic educational institutions. 


r····-------------,I I
Summer sessions at the University of California's 8 
campuses start you thinking. There are 2 six-week FRIDAY & SATURDAY -March 20 and 21
I sessions at Berkeley, UCLA and Davis and sessions I 
I of various lengths on the other campuses, all begin-I 1:30 and 7:30 P.M. STEPAN CENTER 
ning in late June. Fees for each session range from
I $125 to $160. You have a choice of courses for credit I 
and professional and educational advancement that's 
I I 
as wide as most colleges offer during regular semes-I ters. For an application and more information indicate I 
TOP COLLEGE JAZZ BANDS AND COMBOS
the campus of your choice and mail this coupon to:
I I 
I 570 University Hall I IN COMPETITION FOR TROPHIES, CASH AWARDS, University of California
I Berkeley, California 94720 I AND MUSICAL INSTRUMENT PRIZES. 
I I am interested in courses in: D Berkeley I 
D Davis

I --------------···--I
D Los Angeles 

D Santa CruzName D Santa Barbara TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE BOOKSTORE, GILBERTS 
I I 
I I
Address D Irvine
I D Riverside I & AT THE DOOR. 
City State __ZIP--0 San Otego
I I 
L_________________________L__________________ "A_ Service of STUSOC"

~-----------------~ 

MONDAY, MARCH 16,1970 711£ OBSERrJER. 
PAGE 3 

Parents hear talks on minority students 
by Don Ruane auditorium, a film entitled things to say about Notre Dame, racism" faced on the outside. 
self in a university designed for "Tensions created by a color "Cornell" was shown. The film which for us is the students." Jackson claimed that this racism the white student," said Jack­barrier," an "academic and attempted to show the reasons Krashna was questioned as to can be found in any area of 
son. He went on to say that once for the seizure by a group of
athletic oriented atmosphere" what was being done to help Notre Dame and its dealings the white student finds himself, and alleged institutional racism blacks of a building on Cornell's recruit minority students. He with black people. He went on he will have a better under­were said to be the reasons for campus last year. replied that at present there is a to say that blacks are "tired of standing of the problems of the the problems of minority stu­Krashan spoke after the film student run program, called Re­trying the white ways and are minority groups. "This is the dents at Notre Dame during a and attempted to show the simi­cruitment Action Program which now trying to shape their own main problem, institutionalized symposium Saturday afternoon larities between his campaign was formed last fall. He said that destiny." He said they will shape racism in the faculty, administra­in the Center for Continuing and the film by refering to the the program had 800 applicants it the best way, whether that tion and the students," con­Education. The event, one of final scenes in the movie where last year, but before they can be means violence or a unification cluded Jackson. several scheduled for the Junior whites and blacks joined to­brought here "you have to have with white students. The fourth and final speaker Parents Weekend, featured a gether in demanding black stu­a place to bring these students." was Senator Carl Rak, who
Jackson sees changes for the 
four man panel consisting of dies and saying that he was elect­He added that an atmosphere in spoke briefly on the tensions
minority groups coming about 
Ernie Jackson of the Afro­ed due to such a coalition. which they can grow is not pre­slowly due to an apathetic created by what he termed as 
American Society, Student He related the reaction of sent because of the "heavy student body and the "irrespon­the "color barrier." He claimed Senator Carl Rak, SBP elect some students to what he said emphasis on academics and 
sibility of the administration to that these tensions could be felt Dave Krashna and Jim Rocap, during the campaign as "Some athletics." Krashna claims this is daily in the dining halls, in class,
the real needs of the students." 
Chairman of the Students of the things you are saying ... the major problem for minority in the press and in the neigh bar­
Explaining why the minority is 
against Racism, who served as are totally against anything the students. There is "very little for hood of your home. Rak sees
calling for a change in white stu­administration wants to hear or blacks to do here and even less
moderator. the "color barrier" as the
dents as well as the "superficial
Rocap started off by describ­totally against the problems for other minorities," he said. "source of the problems that 
Notre Dame has been having for values" of an institution, Jack­
ing the minority problem as Ernie 1ackson spoke · xt and prevent us from viewing each 
a long time." He defended his son said that the "black student
"not just an issue people debate tried to answer the question of other as people." Rak described 
statements though saying sees that his destiny is tied into
in their homes, but as something why blacks come to Notre the minority representation on 
that means a life to a lot of "Anyway the decision was upon Dame. Jackson said that the the destiny of the white campus as "very scarce." He people around here, both black us to be persons and pursue our black student sees Notre Dame student." alleged that Notre Dame will not and white." Before the first individuality. We made that as a "microcosm of the outside" The "biggest problem for the be able to have the Christian speaker addressed the nearly full decision that we had a lot of containing the "institutional minority student is to find him-atmosphere it is said to have 
until the "color barrier" is elimi­
nated.
Senior Ball tickets go on sale 
by Mike Begida Early in the evening will play a John Hennessy, General "fast band", followed later by a 
Chairman of the Senior Ball, "slow band and playing contem­announced the first ticket sales porary music we know." for the Ball will be this Thurs­The Ball committee picked 
day. The tickets (costing this weekend because the Ball $12.50) may be purchased in would be surrounded by a full room 2[) in LaFortune from week of senior activities. 7:30pm to 9:30pm. Among the events are the The theme of the Ball, Senior Fellow presentation, the 
"Wooden Ships," is taken from Alumni Senior Banquet, special the lyri..:~ of Crosbv, Stills, and activities at the Senior Bar, and Nash. lhe Ball, a formal dress the Class Dunes Trip on Ascen­affair, will take place Saturday sion Thursday. night May 9 in Stepan Center. The Petula Clark concert will 
''Step an," said Hennessy, be Friday night. Hennessy re­ported "much favorable in­
"will look like another world." 
quiry" over Petula. "The Ban-Two hands will he featured. 
Squelch Expo protest 
( UPI) Leftist demonstrators The demonstrators, mostly protesting Expo '70 and the U.S. 
students, were immediately sur­Japan security treaty clashed rounded by some 200 plain with police at a subway station clothes policemen when they 
near the main entrance of the arrived at the subway station fairgrounds yesterday as the after a rally in Osaka. Fighting extravaganza opened to the pub­broke out when police took a 
lic. flag away from the group. Fists flew but no clubs were
But the fray failed to dampen used uniformed
the spirits of the fairgoers. Long as 500 police­
men moved into the fray. Atlines were standing at each of least 69 demonstrators, includ­the entrances when the gates ing six women, were arrested.
opened five minutes early at One demonstrator succeeded
9:25 a.m. By 9:30 p.m., 12 in getting inside the fairgroundshours later, nearly 273,744 per­and made his way among thesons had passed through the spedators to the platform at thestiles. 
top of the Tower of the Sun, the The U.S. pavilion, which has a symbol of the exposition. There moon rock on display, was so he tossed out hundreds of hand­popular that some people com­bills to the crowd below.
plained they had to wait several Several dozen police rushedhours to get insidt> up a steel stairwell but by the 
The Soviet Union's sickle time they reached the top the shaped structure, the tallest demonstrator had disappeared, building on the grounds, also apparently melting into the drew huge crowds. crowds. 
HAPPY HOUR 
2-4 & 8-10 DAILY -98c a pitcher 

Open IOa .m . 
Ample parking in rear Beer & li 

quor CarrY-out 

SIMERI'S 
410 North Hill Street 233-0803 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre pame, Ind.. 46556 



Discuss co-education 
quet hosted by the Alumni (continued from page 2) inadequate" at the conclusion of Club," said Hennessy, "will be total education. Thus, by re­the concert season. coordinated so the Seniors can counting experiences of hers in Dr. Grande gave a brief sketch 
easily attend the concert after some of her coed classes at of the admission policies of dinner." Notre Dame, Miss Cronin con­Notre Dame, and revealed that On Saturday afternoon will be fronted the audience with the because of his years in the the Blue-Gold Game, an inter­belief that coeducation was not· administration he would hesitate squad game showing the "culmi­only desirable but necessary. "changing from a system in nation of Spring practice." The At the conclusion of Miss existance which is workable and persons composing the commit­Cronin's argument, Jan Pearson liked by everyone to any other 
tee working on the Ball are Paul gave the Junior parents a brief possible situations." At the con­Antus, Kay Bajo, Mike Link­insight into the non-coed life of clusion of Dr. Grande's remarks, ewicz, Rich Michaels, Tom Mig­the Notre Dame man. In taking a brief question and answer nanelli, Greg Naples, and Dave the parents through "a typical period was entertained. Rackiewicz. year at Notre Dame," he re­Pearson concluded his argu­
"All in all," concluded Hen­vealed that while girls were ments by stressing social nessy, "it should be a really great present during football season, contact-"not just dating"-as the week." life at Notre Dame was "socially main reason for coeducation. 

PAGE 4 
MONDAY, MARCH Hi, 1970 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 


The University Forum 
The University Forum will meet tomorrow for a second attempt at trying to bridge the communications gap at Notre Dame. 
Its first meeting last month was very poorly planned. The time allotted for discussion was too short. A sense of frustration overcame the members of the Forum as well as the students in attendance as thorough discussion of the issue before them was not held since they all knew the conversation would be cut off when the hour for adjournment was reached. 
The first session of any new group is usually clouded with difficulties that arise because goals have not been outlined nor procedures designated. The poor plannin5 of last month's meeting should be cleared up by the fact that the Forum now has a chairman-Professor Donald Sneigowski of the English department. The outline for the topics to be discussed has already been drawn up. 
TI1e procedure as outlined contains two basic faults. First, time should be alloted at tomorrow's meeting for discussion of the Forum itself. There was some discussion about its function before the Forum was set up. It was done however, by the same people who would eventually ahve to sit on the board-the student leaders, administrators, and other groups represented. They probably all do not have a clear vision of the purpose of the Forum. Maybe they all have talked about it among themselves. But if the Forum is to be a vehicle of communication the people with which it should be communicating should play a role in outlining its direction. 
The students and other members of the community that attend tomorrow's meeting should be asked their opinion about the role of the Forum. TI1e group as a whole should discuss whether or not they think the Forum will be effective. Many of the students who attended the first session of the Forum came away disillusioned. They had gone to the meeting looking for something which they felt was not acheived. lt would be wise for the Forum to handle questions about its function immediately. In order to be effective the community as a whole should have a clear understanding of the purpose of the Forum. 
A look at the schedule reveals that time limits have been set on the discussion of the items on the agenda. Although every organization has to limit its operations somehow in order to be effective we feel that the Forum will only be hurting itself if it sticks to rigid time schedules. Sufficient time must be alloted to allow for penetrating and thoughful evaluations of problems and situations. 
The confusion over the role of the Forum appears here too as present plans are designed to limit the number of questions that students can ask the speakers at the sessions. If the Forum's purposd is communication then it is necessary to insure that the people who are making presentations will answer all questions put to them. 
Tomorrow's agenda calls for the consideration of a wide variety of problems including Student Government, the Nutting-for-President Campaign, the University Arts Council, the Universities Priorities, Hall Life, and Campus Ministry. It is hard to believe that the Forum will be able to cover all of these important fields in the meeting tomorrow. The idea is to pick one of the issues to use as a focal point for the Forum's last meeting in April. 
The Forum must determine its procedures and outline a direction for 
itself. It must limit the number of issues that it will deal with so that it can 
effectively handle all the questions and comments offered by members of 
the community. 

Business Mgr.: Bruce Reick Ad. Mgr.: Bruce Barker Accountant: John Maher News Editor: Glen Corso Asst. News Editor: Don Ruane SMC News Editor: Prue Wear Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, 
Ann Gonway, Jeanne Sweeney Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Feature Editor: Dave Stauffer 
Of course it was your mother who wrote all those nasty thingsabout your hair. 
Rich Smith 


On Moose's theory· 
Premise: hippies, protestors, and "pinkos" are in reahty just restless adolescents who, lacking any other outlet for their energies, demonstrate against the first convenient cause that presents itself. Therefore, give these long-haired "peace freaks" a resplendent sports palace in which they can exhaust their overflowing energy and all will be well, all those nasty, nagging problems will disappear. 
Mr. Krause was asked about the new Athletic and Convocation Center. He responded by saying that it was a beautiful building. He then made the remark that by providing the students with :Hhletic outlet for their energies, it was hoped that demonstrations w:>uld be avoided and we (the students) would have less of an "anti-" attitude toward things. 
This was the basic ·message I got from Notre Dame's athletic director Edward (Moose) Krause's comments during a half-time interview in the Notre Dame-Kentucky basketball game last week. 
The idea that the many problems afflicting our society can be deracinated through the ostrich-like ploy of burying our heads -our minds or consciousness -in a handball court or a television is not indigenous to this campus or the college scene. Rather, this notion pervades our entire nation, and as our problems grow with each passing year, so also grows our tendency to put these problems out of our mind by spending more time in our many gymn:1siums, building our bodies while two billion people elsewhere go without food, clothing, or shelter. 
Our esteemed President Nixon has only added to this national psychosis through sending greetings and congratulations to star athletic players and attending major sporting events. It seems that the President sees a distinct political advantage in being idt,ntified with America's great pastimes. 
While I am not suggesting that President Nixon devote all of his time to an assiduous labor of Jove to save the starving masst,g, I ·do maintain that the present amount of time, money, and energy spent in athletic endeavors is not in consonance with the reality of the present world situation. Not that our President should totally refrain totally from enjoying any football games or from relaymg his messages of good will to personalities in the world of sports. President Nixon, I am sure( labors under an extremely heavy work load and most certainly needs some relaxation. But nonetheless, by contributing to our national frenzy of escaping our many problems by engaging in sports activities, he is doing a disservice to the nation he was elected to serve of incomparable magnitude. 
Another problem brought into focus by Mr. Krause's comments is that of the "jock" image of Notre Dame. If this institution is ever to become a great university as Father Hesburgh has envisioned, the attitude of people "outside" the campus, which has Notre Dame in the category of a football school, must be changed. 
Undoubtedly, Mr. Krause has a sincere faith in the short-haired non-demonstrating, "silent majority" of students. But, it seems to me that it is extremely dangerous for him, as a representative of the University, to identify with the "right-wing" "red-white-and-blue" faction. 
I do not advocate any move similar to the Sell Sacred Heart Church and Use the Money to Aid the Poor movement. I fully recognize the need for recreation, especially in this day of modern machine-technology, when the pressure on students increases with 
each year. Also, I recognize that collegiate athletics is not devoid of redeeming values. The three hundred and fifty thousand dollars which·Notre Dame has received from the Cotton Bowl game will go to the education of students who, under normal circumstances, would never be able to receive a college education. However, the merger of right wing politics and competitive athletics is frightening. The fraternity "jocks" battling the "long hairs is a symbol of America's demise -another sting of th·~ lethal polarization that our government seems to be encouraging. There are some problems that just are not going to fade away as soon as we tune in the Superbowl or put on our handball gl oves. 
Photography Editor: Mike Murphy 
Night Editors: Dave Lammers, 
Rich Smith Layout Design: Cliff Wintrode Layout: Mary Beth Crimmins, 
Cliff Wintrode Ad Layout: Steve Dollinger Night Controller: Scott "Titan 
of the Tapes" Braley 

The opinions expressed in the editorials, news analyses, dnd columns of The Observer are solely the opinions of the authors and editors of The Observer, and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administrations, faculty, or stu­dent bodies. 
MONDAY, MARCH 16, 1970 TNB OBSIRfiJit 
PAGE 5 

The Age of Aquarius at the Convo 



Photos by Jo~y Anderson 


Brogan: a sensational concert 
viously.  garnered  a  large  number  of  stronger.  Their  brilliant vocals,  Park,  and  Rascal's  Cotta  Be  
by Jim  Brogan  His introduction though must certainly be typed as a disap­ laughs, in fact almost every line that he used got some response,  as well as their intricate har­monies made each number a suc­ Free. They didn't merely copy this material, but presented each  
pointment to the crowd, not be­ but he had nothing hilarious, no  cess in itself.  one in their own sparkingly way,  
As much as I like to write re­view~ ~:!:::::r.g concerts (as I have been known to do on occasion this season), there is no way that I can justify such an approach in this review.  cause of his delivery, but be­cause of its content. The sup­porting act, who he introduced, was comedian Ron Martin. For being on his first college tour, Ron's execution wasn't too  knee-slappers, no belly-laughs. A lot of chuckles, but no guffaws. His timing was well practiced, and his delivery suffered none from having to play in the round. As 1 supporting act he  They took mediocre material, like the trite Working on a Groovy Thing, Blowing' Away, and no material, like the Declar­ation ofIndependence and made them in to stunning renditions  complete with flavorful, meticulous harmonies. The audience response was overwhelming. Throughout the entire concert, there was spon­taneous clapping, and the stand­ 
The  Sth  Dimension  Concert  malefic. He had done his home­ was  fair,  but  he  would  never  that pleased the crowd  no end.  ing ovatiorl at the end  was well  
was admirable, and for once even I will admit it. Sure it had its weak points, but the dynamic performance of the Sth Dimen­sion so far outweighed these, as to make this concert the suceess of the year. The Director of the ACC, Mr. Pluff, did the introductions, and although he wasn't crisply pro­fessional about it (much to the delight of the large crowd), he certainly was a step up from the Student Union lackey that has attempted this undertaking pre­ work and had found out some of the local color of the NO-South Bend area. He even threw in a few cuts about the Observer in his opening remarks, which en­deared him to much of the audi­ence. His material was fair, although he often bordered on late hour night club humor, for a few extra yuks. He could well have done without this, seeing as he was playing largely to a Christian family audience, left over from Junior Parents' Weekend. He  make it as a top-billing. Again Mr. Plouff entered, but this time with good news, "the up, up, and away sound of the Sth Dimension." His pronouncement proved correct. Their sound carried the audience up and up to a new high, a high on a feeling. A feel­ing of excitement that didn't go away until long after the SO had disappeared in to their dressing room. They started strong and some­how managed to finish even  They covered every one of their hits, (including Go Where You Wanna Go, Carpet Man Paper Cup, Up, Up, and Away, Stone Soul Picnic, Wedding Bell Blues, and Aquarius/Let the Sunshine In) as welll as other artists' material. It is on this ot­her material that they proved themselves. They did the Cream's In the Sunshine of Your Love, BS & T's You Made Me So Very Happy, Beatles's All you Need is Love, Rich Harris' MacArthur  deserved, for a change. My only regret of the concert was when Ron Townshend blithely announced "We're going to party all night," and then didn't. To build our hopes up (even though we really never believed it) and then let us down is, for­givable in light of the great entertainment value which they provided us. It was a sensational concert, it is too bad they couldn't have stayed "to party all night."  

PAGE 6 
Editor: 
As a junior now, I must admit that I have become disillusioned with Notre Dame, especially in regard to the stifling all male environment that prevails here. Before returning for the fall semester this year, I am sure that most of us read about "coeduca­tion" at Notre Dame. Anyone who has lived here this year and 
even participated in the broaden­ed co-ex program (the supposed step toward greater unity bet­ween Notre Dame and St. Mary's) must realize how inade­quate the present program for coeducation is. With the condi­tions as they are now, I ask in all sincerity: Isn't it time that we take a decisive step forward on 
711B OBSERIIEit 


Letter to the Editor 
this issue? 

I realize that there are many considerations that have to be brought to bear on the problem of coeducation, but I think that the personal consideration of each student's total growth and development is most important. 
My feeling is that Notre Dame a Bows only for the limited growth of its students. Many of the students mature spiritually and intellectually during his four years here, but I find that after one has developed up to a certain point that this place thwarts your branching out onto yourself. 
I certainly would maintain that each man should have the opportunity to seek a greater self-realization through an in­ward search and struggle, but I also believe that upon arriving at 
this greater personal conscious­
ness  there  should  be  an  
environment  in  which  one  has  
the  chance  of  freely  giving  

himself to another. I would not demean the significance of the male-to-male friendships that are made at Notre Dame, but for the emergence of a totally educated and sensitive person I think that only an administration which is oblivious or even unconcerned with the welfare of its students can consistently stand for the denial of ~ · environment which provides h • the opportunities of personal growth involved in truly healthy male-to-female re­lationships. 
The point which our Roman collared bureaucrats must be made to realize is that the Notre Dame student does not narrowly define a girl as an object of 
Hwe're too busy to fly you home, we'll let you know who isn't. 
Your American Airlines campus representative will help you get a seat on a plane. Even if it isn't one of ours. Be­cause if we're booked up, we've asked him to tell you who isn't. 
So if you're flying youth fare stand-by, you can find out 
what your chances are of leaving the airport before you get 
there. And fly at your convenience, not somebody else's. 
Even if you're flying full fare, your rep will help book all your reservations. Including multiple flights. And that could save you a lot of aggravating phone calls. 
But most important of all, he'll save you time. 
Which could make your vacation a little longer. 
Dear Campus Rep, 
I would l1ke to go to___________ 
at___o'clock, on_________1970. 
My name is______________ 
and you can reach me at__________ 
Please send me an application for an American Airlines 
Youth Fare Card. 
~----------------------------~ 
Call us first. It's good to know you're on American Airlines. 
Mr. Con Riordan-Campus Rep. Morrissey Hall. Room 153, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 232-2811 Or call American Airlines reservations: 287-0458 
sexual gratification. Admittedly, our essentially stale segregated environment often makes this appear to be the case, but if one were to probe the feelings of the student in regard to their out­look upon women, I think it would be discovered that, in general, the students aspire for a total relationship with a girl, that is, a relationship that is not based solely upon sex. I think it is time that this university made its policies in light. of the aspirations of its students. 
The Notre Dame students who graduate from here scarred both emotionally and psycholog­ically are the price we are now paying for maintaining the status quo position on coeducation. On the basis of this particular consideration alone, the direc-
MONDAY, MARCH 16.1970 

tion of Notre Dame should be clearly seen to be immediate conversion to a vibrant coeduca­tional environment. I would like to add that, from my point of view this does not mean a grad~al increase in the ratio between Notre Dame and St. Mary's to 3 to 1 over the span of the next seven years. 
As is constantly pointed out to the student body by the: administration there are certain. obstacles to change which must be confronted if one i5 to be realistic about it. One of these is. the problem of St. Mary's identity. I question whether there is any validity to this idea of St. Mary's identity, and consequently whether it should stand as an obstruction to a co-ed Notre Dame. 
Most of the girls that I have known confess that they chose St. Mary's primarily becmse of its proximity to Notre Dame. Even if academic reasons loomed as the principal concern for a girl in her choice of St. Mary's, it seems that the coalesc~nce of both the facilities and personnel of Notre Dame and St. Mary's could only result in a better academic program. Furthermore, I think that the significant attrition rate at St. Mary's leads one to conclude that the girls' sense of identity with their school, if this phen•Jmenon exists at all, is not too strong. 
It seems to me that the most 
avid supporters of St. Mary's 
identity are probably a :;egment 
of her faculty members who., 
lacking the necessary degrees, 
might find their jobs in jeopardy 
in the event of the assimilation 
of the two schools into one. In 
this case, the issue of St. Mary's. 
identity boils down to upholding 
the interests of the few at the 
expense of the community as a 
whole. 
The financial implications of a 
change to coeducation at Notre 
Dame would seem to be the 
foremost complication in the 
mind of one who seriously 
considers this possibility. The 
crucial consideration in regard to 
the financial aspects of coeduca­
tion is garnering the support of 
the alumni of both schools for 
this change. Quite possibly, the 
maintenance of the tradition of 
segregated education and the 
merits attributed to this form of 
education would assume priority 
for the alumni. 
However, the pojnt that I 
would like to make is that 
traditions are formulated to 
fulfill the needs and wants of the 
community which they a~·fect. If 
what I have said previously has 
any substance to it, it would 
appear that new values are 
necessitating the evolu lion of 
new traditions. Traditions are 
not articulated to keep the 
community in enslavement to 
them, but, since they supposedly 
exist for the benefit of the 
people of the community res­
ponsible for them, they should 
correspond to the things that 
that community holds most 
dear, in this case, a more total 
coeducational experience. 
In the final analysis, it .lppears 
that the barriers to the change 
for coeducation are inccmrnen­
surable to the need for this 
change. As I see it, immediate 
action should be taken to give a 
new spirit and new direction to 
Notre Dame. 
Yours hopeful in change, 
Of, if otherwise, signed 
with a dying hand, 
John Pepple 
359 Morrissey 

MONDAY, MARCH 16, 1970 
THE OBSERIJER. 
PAGE 7 

' 
Parents, students discuss ~.ducation at ND-
by Alan DeFrees One of the programs offered during Junior Parents Weekend 
Was On 
"Not e Dan • Ed " 

· r 1 c uca­lion." The program was modera­ted by Mike Shaughnessy and featured John Fagan, Tom Mignanelli and Chris Otten-Weller Wh' o spoke on varyi·ng
' · aspects of education. John Fagan began the pro­
gram with a statement of the aims of education. Education, ac..:ording to Fagan, must guide Man, and help him to attain free­
dom. 
"The vocation of Man is to 
k , . d . , 
now the truth, an do It. . 

. Fagan als~ smd that a Umver­sJty sh?uld give students a liberal educatiOn.
.. . . . 

Only through ~!vefSJty IS a man able to be free. N FagaDn said _thaht t.~e fault w~thl 
otre arne It t e over-specJa­ization" in certain fields. He 
· . . f 1 • · · h cited the lack 0 e ectJves m t e engineering major as an example. Fagan also called for a greater
choice of classes that would benefit the students intellectual­ly. In addition, he said that a major problem here is the lack of student initiative in seekin!! 

Two unidentified in townhouse explosion 
NEW YORK (UP!) 
Searchers found fragments of 
one or more bodies and part of a 
bomb mechanism yesterday in 
the wreckage of a Greenwich 
Village townhouse demolished 
nine days ago by dynamite 
blasts. 
Assistant Fire Chief Henry 
Yunge said the human fragments 
appeared to be missing pieces of 
three bodies already recovered 
rather than from a fourth victim 
of the explosions in the 
$250,000 house believed being 
used as a "bomb factory" by 
young leftwing revolutionaries. 
One of the fragments looked 
like part of a head and was 
Student vary on military 
(continued from page 1) 
Chuck Darst, who tore up his· 
draft card on the October 15 
moratorium, cited his reasons 
for his action. He said that it was 
"something you feel you must 
do" and that you do it publicly 
so that someone will hear you. 
lie stated that the war was 
both illegal and immoral, that a 
man's life is precious, at least to 
him. According to Chuck, no 
government or Selective Service 
System has the right to tell you 
when to kill, who to kill, and 
where. lie contends that this is 
contrary to both Christian ideals 
and the American ideal of free 
choice. 
lie says that the status of Conscientious Objector is a very difficult one to obtain, and when you do obtain one, you still have not solved anything: According to Darst, this is still endorsing the system, and that it is in fact, just another protection deferment under the law, as is that of the student tlefermen t. 
Darst says that he has the "obligation as an American, as a Catholic, and as a human, to 
strike out against any system that says it is all right to kill." 
found near the area where three other bodies were retrieved earlier, two of them headless. 
Teams of poli..:e and firemen methodically sifting by hand through the ruins of the elegant feder.il house since the explosion March 6 also have found about five dozen sticks of dynamite, several homemade bombs and a cache of studnet identification cards. 
The only victim definitely identified was Theodore Gold, 23, a leader of the 1968 Colum­bia University student uprising and member of the revolution­ary Weatherman faction of the Students for a Democratic Socie­tY. 
Newsweek magazine reported yesterday that about a dozen young radicals were in the house plotting to bo111b Columbia Uni­versity and other buildings when the dynamite exploded. News­week said the group had been drifting into New York for weeks from Boston, Chicago and 

elsewhere to set off the bombs in order to back up their de­mands that Columbia arrange bail for Black Panthers now on trial in New York in a bomb plot. 
It said that at the time of the blast Gold was on the parlor floor' working on a book about the. origins of the SDS. Others were. "relaxing with rock music and marijuana" while in the sub­basement two young women were assembling bombs when the accident occurred. 
Sources in the SDS and Weathermen said they believed a woman's torso recovered three days after the blasts was that of Mrs. Patricia Swinton, 22, who may have been in the house with her still missing 3 year old son Adam. She has been sought since last fall in connection with a wave of bombings of govern­ment and corporate offices in New York. The third body, found Saturday was an unidenti­fied male torso. 
knowledge for knowledge sake. Tom Mignanelli spoke on the meaning of edu..:ation to the stu­dent. He said that the primary f U · ·t · t
purpose o a mvers1 y IS o help students secure a living. N t D· however should n~t r~raina~1~'n, but sh~uld edu­
.. t th A 'd ·I ··t . f ca e d. em. nM_I ea lsl_I ua JOlnd,
accor mg to 1gnane 1, wou be to put a man through four 

years of Arts and Letters and then send him to graduate school to Jearn Architecutre, Law or any other subjed. ThiS 
plan, said Mignanelli, would not 
be feasible because most stu­
de.nts have neither the time nor 
h t f II w thJ·s pro
t e money o o o ­gram. Mignanelli also pointed out the redundancy of the philo­~ophy and theology require­
ments. He stated that most stu­dents have already spent many years in Catholic schools that put great emphasis on these sub­jects. Mignanelli put much stress on the students' needs as indivi­duals. 
Chris Ottenweller came out against the education system at Notre Dame to a greater degree than the other speakers. His · b" · h · 
mam o ~ect10n to t e system IS that we must use the three wea­pons of education "grades, 
The lectures were followed by an active discussion and question period. Many parents expressed their views, and asked questions of the speakers, and seemed to 
be · t t d · d 
very m eres e In our e uca­
t"
Ion. 

Mobe moves against draft boards 
(UPI) -· The group that spon­

sored last November's massive 
antiwar protest in Washington 
plans to use the law and abuse 
the law this week to create 
havoc at draft boards in at least 
70 U.S. cities. 
For the first time since pro­

tests against the war in Vietnam 
became nationally coordinated, 
the New Mobilization Commit­
tee to End the War in Vietnam 
New Mobe is openly advocating 
civil disobedience. 
The plan of the New Mobe is 

two pronged, to stage sit ins to 
block draft board entrances in 
about 70 of the more than I00 
cities planning anitdraft demon­
strations and "to strangle the 
draft system in its own bureau-
Hesburgh on draft panel 
(continued from page 1) 
idea. 
The activities tomorrow will 

consist of classroom discussions 
among instructors and students. 
Schoaf suggested that the rea­
sons behind the draft, its struc­
ture. and its "channeling effort" 
should be considered "within 
the context of the discipline." 
The following day, Wednes­

day, "We Won't Go" petitions 
will be circulated in the dining 
halls. The petitions will be sent 
to Congressman John Brademas 
and asked to be entered in the 
Congressional Record. Schoaf expressed hope that these peti­tions might influence Congress in the formulation of its future draft legislation. 
Howard Zinn, author of Viet­nam: the Logic of Withdrawal, 
will speak Thursday at 8 P.M. in the Library Auditorium on "Dissent and Democracy." Fol­lowing his talk, 1im Leary, Bill Golden, and Chris Cotter, Notre Dame students, will make short statements on the resistance. Leary is a sophomore. Golden and Cotter are_ juniors. 
cracy" by following the letter of 
the law. 
"Civil disobedience means 
people will be having nonviolent 
sit ins at induction centers and 
draft boards, blocking entrances 
to those buildings," a spokesman 
for the New Mobe said. 
That action is planned for 
Thrusday, the climax of the 
period of activities and coinci­
dentally the day the Senate 
Armed Services Committee 
opens hearings on the nomina­
tion of Curtis Tarr to become 
the new director of the Selective 
Service System. 
A spokesman at draft head­quarters here said it has not made any suggestions to draft directors in the states on how to cope with the harassment activi­ties. He pointed out, however, that a provision of the nation a I draft law prohibits interference with the operation of the draft by violence or the threat of violence. 
The plan to strangle the' draft will utilize the law which re­quires men of draft age to notify the Selective Service of anything 
that may affect their classifica­tion, sw;h as a change in health, address, Qr, the New Mobe said, their thinking for possible con­scientious objector status. 
Literal interpretation of the law could be carried to ridicu-

EASTER SERVICE TO O'HARE 
LV. NOTRE DAME CIRCLE 
TUESDAY MARCH 24 3PM 
WEDNESDAY MARCH 25 1 PM 4PM THURSDAY MARCH 26 1PM 
All trips stop at St. Mary's Holy Cross Hall 




LV. O'HARE 
SUNDAY APRIL 5 6 PM BPM 10PM 
Tickets on sale at the Travel Bureau 
In Badin Hall 9am-4pm Mon-Frl 
Cost: $5 one way $10 round trip 
A)) sa1es are fin a 1 

STUDENT UNION 

Hair Styling 
for N.D. Men the Continental Way 
Razor Cutting & Style European Layer ShapinJ:!. for Lonj:!, Hair Have Long Hair & Let Miss Treva & The Baron Be Well Groomed serve & pamper you. 
Continental Hair Styling 
306 Sherland Bldg . South Bend lnd. 

STUDENT RATES
234 081] 
By Appt. 

lous proportions, planners said, with antidraft participants tell­ing their board each day of any change in their health, reporting a change of address for the weekend and sending in copies of bibles, books or anything they have read that might have affected their thinking on war in general. 


Brion chosen 
Vice-president of Stud~nt Affairs Fr. Charles McCarmgher last night announced the appointment of Fred C. Stavens to the editor's position for the 1971 Dome. Stavins, a Junior English major, succeeds retiring Gary Greve. 
The Scholastic announced yesterday that Steve Brion will fill the position of Scholastic Editor next year. Brion, a Junior in the Arts and Letters program, comes from Lindhurst, New York. He succeeds Rich Moran. 
J08S! JOBS! and more JOBS! Stu: dents, Teachers. Stateside and Inter· national Jobs. Recreational Jobs; Year-round Jobs; Summer Jobs. Alii ,occupations and trades. Enjoy a vaca· tlon while you earn. Hurry! The best jobs are taken early. Write: ".IOBS"j 
P.O. Box 475, Dept. CP 163-1, Lodlj Calif. 95240 
t •. 
,----------­
7118 OBSERfJBR. MONDAY, MARCH 16, 197p
PAGE 8 




Irish fall before Hawkeye fast break 
the season with I, I 06 points, an Collis Jones scored 24 Satur­
Editor's note-The area TV and radW> stations made an interesting Mid-East Regional won by Jack­decision in not bro11dcasting the NO-Iowa game, but unfortunately, sonville, I 06-100, over top­average of 3 8 .I. In the final day, and finished an excellent no one knew of their plans. Not having gone to Columbus, t· was ranked Kentucky. eight games he scored 377, an season with 539 points. caught short. One of the guys down the hall did pick up the game on I ow a's Hawkeyes, who average of 4 7 .I. Dee's starting lineup included 
Carr's 158 points in three Mike O'Connell and Sid Catlett.
his $300 stereo set-up (from a station in Kentucky), but only at half­finished 20-5 including the Big NCAA games was by far the best 
time when the score was an amazinl! 75-42. Ten Title with a perfect 14-0 O'Connell scored the game's first Not having the means of covering the game in any sufficiently pre-mark, blistered Notre Dame with in history, and even broke the two points, but from there on it cise way, I turned to the South Bend Tribune and Mr. Forrest Miller. a 75-point first half. Late in four-game NCAA mark of 141 was all Iowa. After nine minutes I would like to thank Mr. John J. Powers, Managing Editor of the period the Irish were 36 points set by Clyde Lovellette of Kan­of play Iowa had turned the Tribune for his kind permission allowing ~ to reprint this article down, and were stretched out at sas in 1952. His 68 field goals in game into a rout by tripling the from Sunday's edition. half-time-by the whopping mar­three games smashed the four­score at 39-13. Notre Dame had Michigan, Coach Johnny Dee gin of 7 5-42. game mark of 57 set by Washing­used three time outs trying to re­
By FORREST MILLER 
may be able to see a ray of sun­"I mentioned pride at half­ton's Bob Houbregs in 1953·­verse matters, and Dee had a Tribune Sports Writer shine in Iowa's 121-106 victory. time, said Dee "And told and missed by two of matching technical foul from Ernie Fili­
our 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -For 20 As Austin Carr picked off a club that Iowa would score 150 Elvin Hayes' five-game record of berti. The margin reached 36 minutes Saturday afternoon couple of more NCAA tourna­if we didn't do something. I was 70 set two years ago. points at 71-35 late in the first Notre Dame built an air-tight ment' records to go with the pair proud the way we came back, Last week against Ohio half. case against consolation-style coll~ted in the first round vic­University, Carr's 25 field goals "The officiating was brutal,"
and I think we proved we can basketball. tory over Ohio-University, the play with anybody in this tour­and 61 points were single game said Dee. "It left so much to be But if the recovery qualities highest-scoring Notre Dame club nament." records. His teammates on the desired -but that's not what 
and the momentum produced by in history closed with a 21-8 In that first half Iowa hit 33 all-tourney team were Artis Gil­beat us." I was happy the way the Irish in the second half could record. field goals in only 52 shots -a more and Rex Morgan of Jack­we came back and scored 64 in somehow carry over into next Carr was voted the most­fantastic 63.5 per cent. Notre sonville, Issei of Kentucky and the second half -18 more than December's season opener at valuable player this Fred Brown of Iowa. Iowa."
in NCAA Dame, beaten repeatedly on the an
fast break by Coach Ralph Mil­Iowa's 121 points was You wouldn't find many com­NCAA record, as was the 227 pliments on the west coast
ler's super-quick Hawks, hit just 18 of 51 for 34 per cent. two-team total. Princeton held officiating crew from any of the the old single game mark of 118 four coaches -or from the
Carr and his teammates 
set in 1965, and Oklahoma
coupled a brilliant 20 minutes 13,865 fans who jammed Ohio 
City's 112-102 victory over State's St. John Arena.
onto a dismal first period, but 
Brigham Young in the same Tops for Iowa were John
the huge deficit was just too 
season set the high two-team Johnson and Chad Calabria with
much to overcome. Iowa had 
mark of 214. 31 each. Johnson had 22 in the
I00 points with I0:34 to play, 
The Hawkeyes missed by one first half rout. Glenn Vidnovic
and Notre Dame several times 
of matching the most points ever had 17 of his 24 in the first half.
cut the margin to 15. That's 
scored against Notre Dame. "We also have a lot of pride
what it was at the finish. Miller 
Indiana hit 122 in a 1962 vic­and character," said Iowa':; Mil­
didn't dare clear his bench until 
tory at Fort Wayne. ler. We wanted to play as v. ell as
only I: II remained. 

Carr has I ,459 career points, if we were going for the national
Carr scored 32 of his 45 in the 
and needs just 362 next season championship. It would have
second half, and the dazzling 
to break Tom Hawkin's school been awful to come home with
Washington, D.C. junior finished 
career record of I ,820. two losses after having been un­beaten in the Big Ten." 
FG FT REB PTS FG FT REB PTS Vidovic 7-14 10-10 11 24 Jones 12-24 0-0 8 24 Johnson 14-31 3-3 9 31 Carr 21-39 3-4q 10 45 Jensen 2-2 1-1 7 5 Catlett 3-10 1-1 6 7 Brown 8-16 0-0 6 16 O'Connell 1-3 0-0 0 2 Calabria 15-22 1-2 8 31 Meehan 1-3 1-1 1 3 McGilmer 6-9 0-0 6 12 Ziznewski 2-6 3-4 10 7 Schulze 0-1 0-0 0 0 Sinnott 2-5 6-6 3 10 Hedge 0-0 2-2 0 2 Hinga 2-5 2-2 2 6 Grabinski 0-1 0-1 0 0 Gallagher 1-2 0-0 2 2 Hazley 0-1 0-0 1 0 TOTALS 45-97 16-18 42 106 Miller 0-1 0-0 1 0 
Shooting: Iowa 52 of 98 for 53 per cent; Notre 
TOTALS 52-98 17-19 49 121
Tom Sinnott (shown here against Ohio University), was the third Dame 45 of 97 for 46 per cent. leading Irish scorer vs. Iowa, garnering ten points. Turnovers: Notre Dame 27, Iowa 18
Officials: Ernie Fillberti (Pacific 8) and AI Vidal 
Attendance: 13,865
(Western Athletic Conference) 

Fencers fin ish with 5 wins 
Coach Mike DeCicco's fencing Freshman Mike Corwall led the Although the dual meet sea­squad closecl out the '69-70 dual way in foil by going 3-0 in the son has ended, the biggest test of 
• meet season at 20-2 by rolling two matches and Holzgrafe and the season is still ahead. Thurs­over five opponents last week­Daher combined for 9 wins with­day and Saturday ( 19 and 21) end. The ~wo loss season perfor­out a loss. Cornwall finished the Notre Dmae will host the NCAA mance was the "worst" in five weekend 6-0 and Holzgrafe and fencing championships in the years for the Irish blademen who Daher were (10-1) and (10-2) re­Convocation Center. Forty-seven had lost' only two in three pre­spectively. schools will take part, trying for vious campaigns. Coach De­The dual meet season ended both the team crown and indivi­Cicco's record through the last with five fencers reaching the dual honors. Only one man from four years is 74-4; a gaudy .940 "magic" 30 victory plateau. each school may be entered in won lost percentage. Senior and Co-Captain Roger each weapon so the "team 
The weekend opened friday Holzgrafe and Juniors Kalin, championship" term is used nigh't in Cleveland as the fencers Daher, Feeney, and Deladrier I oosely. Several teams with crushed Case Western (17 -I 0) were the five that accomplished strong individuals are early and Cleveland State (18-9). The this feat. Doug Daher was the favorites and among these are; reserves, as they have all season, leader in victories with 38 and NYU, Columbia, Navy, Prince­saw much action in these two freshman Mike Cornwall, with ton, and defending champion matches, but regulars Gen Kalin an imptessive first year, was the Pennsylvania. Notre Dame hopes 
and John Lyons in foil and Mike leader in won-lost percentage will rest with Glen Kalin in foil, Feeney in sabre led the attack (24-6) at .800. Roger Holzgrafe in sabre and against Case. Cleveland State fell Rich Deladrier in eppe. Prelim­to a strong sabre performance as inaries will begin at 9:30 Thurs­
Wins 600

regulars Holzgrafe, Daher, and day morning with the finals Sat­
Feeney cocombined to go 6-0. urday.
Rick Wohlhuter. running
Rich Deladrier in eppe and Mike "better than he has all season'. 
Cornwall in foil were also 2-0 
in the words of teammate Mike 
Bengals begin 
With the Four I Tournament in Oxford, Ohio called off due to theagainst State. 
McMannon, captured the 
The following afternoon in Notre Dame's famed Bengal lack of a sponser, the Irish Wrestlers have two weeks off until the fi­
600-yard Run in Saturday's nal outing of the season, the NCAA's at Northwestern. Jim HansenBuffalo N.Y. the blademen NCAA Indoor Trace and Field Bouts begin in earnest tonight at 
opened with an easy win over Championships. 8:00 in the Con vo. General (158), shown above, and Phil Gustafson (HWT) will represent ND. Harper of N.Y. 19-8. Spearhead-His outstanding time of admission seats to the quarter 
• ing the Irish attack were John finals cost $1.00. Several foot­
I :09.5 was only 0.1 of a second Lyons (2-0) in foil, Holzgrafe off the meet record set in I966 ball players are entered in this and Daher ( 3-0) in sabre, and by Martin McGrady. The Irish year's bouts, including defending Rich Deladrier (2-0) in epee. The junior defeated Tom Turner of champion Bill Etter. Obsen•er 
NO fe.ncers closed out the after­coverage of the Bouts will begin
Murray State and Bill Wehrwein 
noon by whipping Buffalalo 
of Michigan State, one of the Big in depth with the semifinals 
(17-1 0) and Syracuse (16-ll). Wednesday night. 
Ten's best. 











