-~~-• ....:L.J..
. . .,.,. 

firsf Snow Edition r~ 
•
* * • 
Vol. V., No.3~­

Cardinal Richard Cushing, son of Irish immigrant, dies 
BOSTON (UPI) -Cardinal Richard Cushing, 75, the "com­mon man's prince of the Roman Catholic Church who also was a confidante of the powerful Ken­nedy family, died yesterday of cancer. 
Death came shortly before 2 
p.m. (EST) at the cardinal's resi­dence. Archbishop Humberto S. Medeiros, who succeeded the cardinal less than a month ago, was reported at his bedside when 
Nominations held for appeals board 
by Don Ruane 
Student Life Council member 
Mark Zimmerman announced 
yesterday that he is now accept­
ing nominations for the student 
seat on the University Appellate 
Board established by the recent­
ly passed Judicial Code. Zimmer­
man added that he would also 
accept nominations of outstand­
ing men for the administrative 
and faculty seats. 
The board members will be 
selected during Monday's SLC 
meeting from a list submitte4 by 
a three man committee com­
posed of administrative represen­
tative Philip Faccenda, faculty 
representative Dr. Paul Conway 
and student representative 
Zimmerman. Each member will 
submit a list of three nomina­
tions from his particular area of 
representation. 
"We're looking for sound 
thinking st\ldents with a good 
temperment who are not easily 
polarized or known as extremely 
conservative or extremely liberal 
thinkers," said Zimmerman as he 
described the qualities of the 
nominees sought by the com­
mittee. He added that the can­
didate does not necessarily have 
to have experience in student 
government and could be self­
nominated. 
Nominations should be sub­
mitted to Zimmerman before 
Thursday for adequate screening 
of qualifications. A personal 
interview is required and refer­
ences will be checked. Zimmer­
man will accept nominations 
after 2:30 p.m. today and after 
12 p.m. tomorrow. He can be 
contacted by phoning 1854 or 
1855 or by going to room 369 
Dillon Hall. 
The board will meet whenever a case decided before the Univer­sity Board is appealed. The hoard cannot change a decision hut it can return a case to the University Board if it finds· the evidence used in the original trial does not justify the sentence. The board may also uphold the original decision. 
Zimmerman speculated that the board would not meet very often and concluded that "time­wise it will not be demanding." 
the prelate died. 
Cushing's body will lie in state at the Holy Cross Cathedral be­ginning this evening until funeral services Saturday morning. Apostolic Delegate Luigi Rai­mondi, Pope Paul VI's emissary to the United States, will be the principal celebrant at the ll 
a.m. public funeral mass. 
First word of the cardinal's failing came about two hours earlier when chancery officials said he was in "critical" condi­tion, his health "failing rather rapidly." 
Cardinal Cushing, who died yesterday, was a 1948 recip­ient of an honorary doctorate from Notre Dame. Father Hesburgh issued a statement as follows: 
"Cardinal Cushing was one of the oldest and best friends of the University of Notre 
Dame and personal friend of mine. He was a Pope John kind of cardinal -a generous and compassionate man and a great pastor. They broke the mold when they created him." 
Father Hesburgh said he would say a Mass for the repose of the soul of the prelate. He has asked Paul Hellmuth, a Boston attorney who is secretary of Notre Dame's board of trustees, to represent Notre Dame at the funeral. 

The finance committee will 
don t understand me after 47 
present its final budget allot­
years, they'll never understand 
ments for each organization to 
me." Pope Paul VI did not act
the senate at the meeting Wed­
on the retirement request. 
nesday night. Organization heads 
However:-the Pope accepted
will be informed prior to the 
the cardinal's retirement request
by Glenn Sorge itor or a driver is urged to attend meeting of the committee's de­
· about two months ago. The pre­
The committee in charge of the meeting. cisions. Those heads who wish to 
late, who had hoped to retire to
the Georgia Tech ticket charity The Georgia Tech game will do so will be allowed to argue 
the missions in South America,
drive is calling a meeting at 8:30 be televised on local channels so either in favor of or in opposi­
Wednesday night in the LaFor­the organizers expect a greater tion to the suggestions of the said he would not be able to do 
so because of his poor health. 
tune amphitheater for those number of students to give up committee. The senate, which 
The cardinal called President
interested in assisting the drive their tickets than might other­has the final judgement in the 
Kennedy "Dear Jack" and was
by becoming monitors and trans­wise be expected. matter, will then decide on the 
given his Navy dog tags when the
porting children who are unable Andrus also said that he ex­budget allotments. 
chief executive was slain in
to find a ride to Notre Dame. pected various groups to sponsor Conroy also said that there 
1963.
The committee headed by smokers for those who do not go are a few major problems in 
His prime concern, like that
totbepme.
Student Government Hall Life formulating a budget in this 
of his successor, Archbishop
Commissioner Eric Andrus needs manner. He cited a lack of 
Medeiros, was with the "little
between fifty and seventy volun­knowledge concerning budgeting 
people." His bubbling, jaunty
teers to monitor the children at procedure, an inability to read 
informality endeared him to his
the game. These volunteers financial statements, and a lack 
flock as he amazed constituents
would keep their tickets and of other similar financial know­
by dancing an Irish jig, donning 
attend the game, but would sit ledge as some of these difficult­
a comic hat, bottle feeding an
with a group of about ten chil­ies. In an attempt to solve the 
infant or playing Santa Claus in
dren. The committee feels that dilemma, Conroy has prepared a 
the red trappings of the cardinal­
many of the volunteers will paper giving the above and 
ate -his "glad rags." 
come from the Neighborhood similar information. Each 
His fund raising feats were
Study Help program and they senator is to receive a copy 
legendary, ranging from the $1 
are optomistic that enough stu­before the meeting. 
million he raised in three hours
Two of the requests which
dents will offer their services to 
for "Cuban freedom fighters"
may cause some controversy are
make up the difference. 
after the ill-fated "Bay of Pigs"
the appeals for money by Stan­
Andrus estimates that 200 

invasion of 1962 to a $50 mil­
ford and ~-Edward's Halls,
and possible as many as 400 
lion "jubilee" drive undertaken
according to Conroy. He said
children will be unable to find a 
in 196 7 to erase all bills of the
that some of the problems in
way of coming to the stadium. 
archdiocese so his successor
giving these and other individual 
They are appealing to the st~­
would not have a financial bur-
halls money "boils down to how
dent body to use their own cars 
den.
to appropriate money effectively 
in transporting the children. 
(Continued on page 4}

and. fairly, and how to establish
Anyone able to assist as a mon­
genuine need.' 

The cardinal, who stepped down last month after 26 years as archbishop of Boston, was stricken by cancer 14 years ago and was given eight months to live in 1964 when a malignant kidney was removed. 
Chancery officials did not dis­close the nature of the prelate's latest medical problems, but it was reliably reported to be can­cer. The cardinal reportedly has been bed-ridden for several days. 
The cardinal entered St. Eliza­beth's Hospital last March for treatment of a "resistant infec­tion" and was hospitalized for ·Cardinal Richard Cushing, au immigrant blacksmith's son who several weeks. However, doctors became a Prince of the Roman Catholic Church and an intimate 
never defined the "infection." 
friend of the powerful Kennedy family, died yesterday._ Here, he During a series of operations is pictured wearing various hats in his lifetime. (Photo by UPI).
in 1954, he lost 30 pounds and The second oldest of five chi!-and entered the-seminary after"came within a glimpse of dren of an Irish immigrant black-graduating from Boston Collegeheaven -but I didn't get in, so I smith, the cardinal was ·born High School. 
came home." He contracted can­Aug. 24, 189,5. He dropped out He was named archbishop ofcer two years later but it was not of high school to work on the Boston, the nation's second lar­revealed until the kidney was Boston docks but later returned gest archdiocese, in 1944, and
taken out in 1964. was elevated to cardinal in 1958. In 1953, he married then Sen. 
Senate to set budget 
John F. Kennedy and Jacqueline Bouvier. He also presided at theby Milton Jones Conroy said,"They are as of yet burial in 1963 of Presidt!nt Ken­The Student Senate will unconfirmed. They are pending nedy and Sen. Robert F. Ken­
Father Burtchaell's decision con­
convene for the second time this nedy two years ago after theyyear on Wednesday, Nov. 4, at cerning the finances of tbe Mi­were assassinated.
LaFortune Student <:enter. Ac­nority Recruitment and Black When the President's widowcording to SBVP Mark Winings, Orientation Programs. If Bur­wanted to marry Greek financier "The agenda will be concerned tchaell's office will finance these Aristotle Onassis in 1968, heprimarily with the budget; the organizations, then more money defended her right to do so,body probably will not discuss will be at the committees dis­cautioning that she could not any other matters due to the posal to allot to other organiza­marry Onassis and remain alarge amount of time the budget tions. The committee will meet Catholic in good standing. When discussion will require." Tuesday, Nov. 3, to discuss critics responded with "gutter"When asked about the final Father Burtchaell's decision and mail, he offered to resign, com­budget figures, Treasurer Dennis finalize budget plans. 
menting, "If they (his critics) 
7118 OBSERIIDt 
lslpe•ker 

ecelved More R•v•" Reviews 
•n Any Other 
HI-FI Product We Know 
BOSE 901 with walnut fecirtg~d _bemboo grille. 
"you feel you've made some sort of stereo discovery ... if your own response to It Is like ours, you'll be reluctant to turn it off and go to bed." 
Norman Eisenberg in High 
Fidelity, August, 1968 
"all the room-filling potency of the best acoustic-suspensfon sys­tems, combined with the tautness and clarity of a full-range elctro­static speaker...! have never heard a speaker system In my own home Which could surpass, or even equal the BOSE 901 for overall 'realism' of sound." 
Julian Hirsch in Stereo Review, September, 1968 
"the illusion of an orchestra spread across the wall Is un­canny...To hear a thunderous 'low c· organ pedal...or a clean wighty impact of a large bass drum is truly Impressive ... There is no doubt that the much aboused term, 'breakthrough,' applies to the BOSE 901 and its bold new concepts." 
Bert Whyte in Audio, Decembe 
1968 
"In the last year or so, ... aural extremists have been offered a new solution to their problems, and, after a time trial measured in months rather than weeks, this one can definitely proclaim that BOSE Is best, big or small, high or low." 
rving Kolodin, Saturday Revie 
une 27, 1970 
Your ears will tell you 
more than all the rave 
reviews in the world. Hear the BOSE soon at RMS Audio. 
The BOSE 901 sells 
fur $476.00 
per stereo pair. ­
ci 
i 
RMSAUDIO 
1307 E. CALVERT Phonp 288-1681 
OPEN 3-8 M-TH 
1-4:30 SUNandFRI CLOSED SATURDAY 

Applications taken for Judicial Board 
and Assistant Judicial Commis­
by Tom Degnan 

sioner Dave Tushar thro11ghout 
Applications for positions on this week. 
the newly-ratified University 
Judicial Board are now being "We expect that we'll have 
taken according to Judicial Com-about 50 applicants," said Urda. 
missioner Rich Urda. Openings "But the main thing we're look-
on the 17 member board are ing for is a good chairman." 
limited to 12 students with the Each of the three faculty mem­
remaining positions being taken hers of the board will hold the 
by three faculty members, a position of chairman sometime 
lawyer and a psychologist. Stu-during the year with the order 
dent applicants who are in good being determined. by a rotation 
academic and disciplinary stand-type system. The Faculty Senate 
ing will be interviewed by Dean will appoint the faculty contin­
of Students Fr. James Riehle gent to the board. 
~:.....:::.:.::.:.:::::.:;:_..:.....;~:..=.;.;..:_.:......_________________, 
Sergio Mendes 
& 

Brasil '66 
with C••er Anderson 
•net Don Sher....n 
Saturday, Nov. 7 
8:30 in ACC Tickets $5, $4, and $2 at Student Union Ticket Office and Dining Halls (Tues., Wed., Thurs.} presented by Student Union Social Commission & ACC 
"The University Board should be ready by the tail end of next Wt<ek." said Urda. "We've taken Fr. Hesburgh's approval as final and plan to get busy right away. The lJ niversity trustees must still ratify the Code at their next scheduled meeting early in De~ cemher. 
Under the proviSions set up by the new Judicial Code, the University or Campus Board will try both cases that involve of­fenses against the University
regulations occuring outside the 
halls and offenses by students committed in residence halls in which they, themselves do not reside. The Hall Judicial Boards have jurisdiction over the resi­dents of their own hall. Five me m hers of the University Board including one faculty member will sit in on each case. The new Code specifies that the board will convene as the cases come up and that the meetings be conducted in secrecy unless requested otherwise by the de­fendant. Legal assistance will be provided in cases in which it is requested. 

Concerning the use of the Judicial Board Urda said, "I ex­pect to see quite a few cases tried. Business will probably be heavy. Once the students realize that the University Board is recommending fraternal correc­tion more than legal correction they'll be more favorable to the system." 
Many thefts reported
by Pat Goolev 

There were several thefts re­ported over the weekend. A purse was stolen from a motor vehicle behind the ACC on November 1, and a vending machine in O'Shaugnessy Hall was vandalized. A person or per­sons unknown also stole several pieces of equipment from sail­boats on the beach of St. Joseph Lake. Five regular blocks and one ratchet block were stolen 
Pre-Law Society -Catholic Uni­versity School of Law, Prof. Ferann Dutile is scheduling inter­views for prospective students on Monday, Nov. 9, in Room 205 Business Building. Signups outside Room 101 O'Shaughnessy. 
Pre-Law Society -George Wash­ington University National Law Center, W. Walace Kirpatrick is scheduling interviews for prospec­tive students on Mon. Nov. 9, in Room 205 Business Building. Signups outside Room 101 O'Shaughnessey. 

fro·n the boa1.s. 
Another student was attacked on' Halloween, hut it seems to have been a prank rather than a serious attempt at assault. The student was walking between Badin and Howard halls when two men about age 21 or 22 stopped him. The first said, "Trick or Treat!" and the other pushed the youth against the side of Howard. After grappling for a time, one assailant said, "Let's go, Frank," and the two left laughing. The victim noted that both men smelled of alcohol, so the attack may have been intended as a joke. 
Another theft still remains un­solved --that of the paintings from Fisher Hall. Chief of Secur­ity Arthur Pears said that the security force has no idea where to go since, "We don't know what S<\D means." Apparently, that case remains a mystery. 
Student Chapter o ASM-AIME 
·( Metallurgkai Engineering & Material Science) 
Presents a Lecture/Demonstration on 
MODERN GLASSES 
hy 
Mr. Georee W. McClellan 
Cornln& Gl••• Works 
N0vember 3, 1970 at 7:30p.m. Engineering Auditorium 
Coffee c.:,. Donuts to Follow Admission Free Ever one Invited 
~::::::::~:~:~:~:~~:::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~..;::::::::::::::::::$:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~;:;:;:;:;:;': 
j~~~  Arts & letters Sophomores and Juniors  1  
Join the BUSINESS FORUM, a society for those interested in a career in Business or Graduate study in Business.  
o,..anizational Meeting Tuesday, Nov. 3 7:30 104 0 'Shaughnessey  PM  I.. @  

:::::::::::::::::::;:::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:;:!:~:~:~:::::::~:::::~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:::::~:::::;:::::::::::::~:::::* 
The Observer Is PUblished dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, ,... ·e Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postagepaid, Notre Dame, In~. 46556. 
. ·;;,.... '. ;,t 
·::j~: 
Stickmen checked by Michigan, 7-5 
by Joe Passiatore 
sity of Michigan was assessedObserver Sportswriter nine penalties for illegal check­
The Notre Dame lacrosse ing while the Irish were caught team fell victim to a strong four times. The game witnessed Michigan team by a score of 7-5 a small scuffle in the fourth Saturday, October 31. The Irish quarter when some checking got stickmen were unable to cope out of hand. The referee was with a Michigan one-two punch quick to intervene, however, and that combined a wealth of depth the fight was stopped short of and experience. The wolverines anything major. Further evi­had been touted as one of the dence of the game's roughness premiere lacrosse teams in the was the sudden departure of Midwest and certainly their per­Notre Dame goalie, Jerry Kam­formance Saturday did nothing mer, early in the fourth quarter. to diminish their reputation. Kammer's attempt to clear the 
The game, as can be expected ball past the mid-field line fell when two good lacrosse teams short when he was converged get together, was an extremely upon by all three Michigan mid­bruising contest. Fierce body fielders. The maneuver was 
and stick checks were a standard strictly legal, but typified the part of the match. The Univer-type of game both teams played. 
Jim Donaldson 
Sports Shorts 
It has become common practice for football coaches to never underestimate an opponent or say anything bad about the opposition, especially when in the presence of the news media. By praising opposing clubs, smiling all the while, coaches prevent bad relationships between the clubs and avoid antagonizing the opposition to such an extent that an underdog, out to avenge his wounded pride, might make a game out of an expected rout. 
Tune in any of the TV shows on the local stations hosted by a card-carrying member of the Football Coaches of America, whether John Pont, Ara Parseghian or Duffy Daugherty, and you can hear condescending phrases in abundance. 
"Any club can beat another on a giyen Saturday," "This team is in excellent physical condition, they'll battle us all the way", "If we 
go into the game flat, we could have trouble", "Mistakes could hurt us, we can't afford to goof off". It all sounds the same after a while. Wouldn't it be refreshing to hear a coach say what he really thinks 
before a game? I could just hear such a show... "Hello sports fans, this is Tom Nedding speaking with Coach Asa Smithsonian on the eve of the game between his Fighting Armenians and The Academy. 
Coach, how do things shape up for tomorrow's game? 
I think we'll win easily Tom. The Academy is a lousy ball club. They vl: won one of their first six games and 90% of America's football fans have never even heard of the school they beat. .t'tik people what "Colgate" is and they'll say its a toothpaste. The Academy would have to be considered one of the nation's ten worst major college football teams. 
How do the clubs compare in size, Asa? 
About the same as David and Goliath, Tom. My boys outweigh the Academy lads by thirty pounds. It looks like the L.A. Rams against St. Joe's High. 
Does the Academy have any strengths? 
Yes, they seem to retreat very well. Both their offensive and defensive units are equally adept at this. I'd be hard pressed t say which moves backward more proficiently. 
Your reserves should see plenty of action then, right Coach? 
Oh yes, Tom. Last year in our stadium we used every player on the bench, the prep squad and the freshman team by the end of the third quarter. The Cavanaugh Hall second team interhall squad was in the game at the final whistle. 
Can't the Academy recruit any good football players? 
Well, Tom, as far as recruiting goes, if you were a college star how would you like to be a first round draft choice of the Pensacola Gossamer Jayhawks? My third string quarterback two years ago is with the Dallas Cowboys now. The Academy's star player is commanding a garbage scow in N:w Guinea. 
Do you have any game plan? 

Yes, we plan to score every time we have the ball and only stupid 
mistakes, like forgetting the play, we will prevent us from doing just 
that. 
You don't think you'll have any trouble putting points on the 
scoreboard, Asa? 
Tom, they could put up barbed wire, dig a moat, and put the whole Atlantic fleet in it and we could still score five touchdowns in the first half. 
You don't want to rub it in by winning by too large a margin do 
you Asa? 
No we don't have too humiliate them. They do a fine job of that on their own. We like to win by enough to impress the pollsters but not so much that it looks like we picked on them. I'm in doubt as to whether we should win 47-0 or 56-7. 
This series seems to go in cycles doesn't it Asa? Yes, when I first came here we won by a score of 40-0 and the game has been getting more one-sided every year since. One last question, coach. Are you in favor of continuing this series? 
Oh, yes, Tom, definitely. The Academy and my club have the longest continuous intersectional rivalry in college football today. You don't let a game like that go easily. We're very pleased to have The Academy on the schedule. 
Notre Dame trailed 3-2 at the sabotage the effort. one of the finer lacrosse teams in half and as it turned out that The team was understandably the Midwest area. was the closest the Irish came to disappointed in losing to Michi­The team will close out its fall Michigan all day. Co-captain gan, however, most players season with a match this Satur­attackman, Kenny Lund, turned recognized the quality of what day against the Alumni, which is in another splendid perfor­they were up against, and took along the same lines as the mance, however, as he netted solace in the fact that the 7-5 Michigan squad. The game will four of the five Notre Dame score was respectable. Signs of take place Saturday morning be­scores. John Moran, a mid­potential were indeed numerous, hind Stepan Center and should fielder, accounted for the other and with a bit more team play be interesting in that it will pit Irish tally. Lund, now, has and game experience the Notre the young Irish stickmen against scored nine times in two games Dame squad could develop into their old nemesis: experience. with an aggressive style of play tha features an extremely fast shot and some exceptional moves to maneuver into the 
Boaters beaten 
open. One interesting statistic to Tom Beaver booted home four margin to two goals but theevolve from the game, was the goals in leading the powerful home team added yet anotherfact that both teams had an 
Blackburn College soccer team score in the initial period and led equal number of shots on goal. 
to a 7-1 romp past the Notre 4-1 after the first 20 minutes ofThis is further testimonial to the Dame soccer club Saturday in play. Dan Burke was credited
experienced stick-handling abili­Carlinville, Illinois. The loss left with an assist on Shriver's goal. 
ty of Michigan and the team­the Irish with a 4-4-2 record The two clubs battled throughwork involved in working for the while Blackburn now boasts an a scoreless second quarter but open shot. Notre Dame while 
8-1 mark. Blackburn put the game far out not being physically outclassed, The offensive-minded of reach by notching a single
came up short in the stick­Blackburn squad completely tally in the third quarter andhandling department. Several dominated the game, jumping, another pair of goals in the finaltimes the opportunity presented out to a 3-Q advantage in the twenty minutes of play.
itself for an Irish score when first quarter. 
The Irish hooters ue in action Michigan was being penalized Tom Shriver booted home the again this weekend, opposingand was a man short on the only Notre Dame tally of the Western Illinois Saturday at I 0 field; only to have an inaccurate day in the first stanza on a ten a.m. behind Stepan Center. 
pass or an over-anxious shot foot shot to cut the Blackburn 
Two lea,ues end in "not 
nounced that it will again spon­
Morrissey  and  Breen-Phillips  Four.  
won  their respective divisions in  B-P tied Cavanaugh 0-0 Sun­ LEAGUE  II  
interhall football, and the other two races will be dedided in  day to finalize their hold on League Three. Farley closed its  Alumni Dillon OffCampus  2 2 1  0 0 0  2 2 3  
playoff games next &tnday.  season with its first win as Zahm  Walsh  1  2  1  
Dillon, who tied Alumni 6-6  forfeited.  Sorln  0  4  0  
Sunday, has a rematch with the  Morrissey beat Lyons I2-0 to  LEAGUE  Ill  
latter at I:30 Nov. 8 to decide the League Two championship.  assure themselves of a title and Holy Cross copped their second  Breen-Philllps Cavanaugh St. Joe  3 2 2  0 0 2  1 2 0  
Grace, I2-6,  who and  topped Keenan,  Flanner who de­ victory 16-0.  by shutting Sorin lost  out its  Badin fourth  Farley *Zahm *Zahm  dropped  1 0 from  2 4 league  1 0  
feated  St.  Ed's by forfeit, will  straight to Walsh 8-6.  
meet  at  2:45  to decide League  LEAGUE  I  LEAGUE Keenan  IV  2  0  2  
lnterhall B-ball  Morrissey Pangborn  w 3 2  L 0 1  T 1 1  Grace Stanford Flanner  2 2 1  0 1 2  2 1 1  
Holy  Cross  2  2  0  St.  Ed  0  4  0  
The  lnterhall  Office  has  an­ Badin Lyons  1 1  3 3  0 0  

sor a basketball tournament be­
New Jersey Club 
tween the halls. Due to the great amount of interest in basketball and the increasing numbers 
Th•nksalvlna Ch•rter 
wishing to play, it has been 
Operating between Newark and South Bend
necessary to change the format 
November 25 and 30
of competition. This year each 
$70 fare -DC-9 Fan Jet
hall will be allowed 2 teams per I00 students. Teams may be selected in any 
Final Sales -'JIIednesday -7:30 -8:30 PM way a hall chooses. All rosters 
Coke Bar, Rathskellar must be submitted by Nov. I I. 
Any questions, call Pete Del Presto -1768 
For further information call the inter hall office (Tel. 61 00). 
I~ 
ND SKI CLUB STUDENT UNION 
SNOWMASS AT ASPEN 
Jan. 9 .. 16 Sl85 

Round Trip Transportation from Chica_go Continental Breakfast 6 Days Lifts Wine and Cheese Party Slalom Race 7 Nights Lodging 
For more information come to Room 127 Nieuwland at 8:00 PM Wednesday, November 4, 1970. 
Slpups •nd deposit of $2S 
Any Questions call: Student Union-7757 Bob Lane-7965 John Donohue-8930 
----------------~ 
Boston Archbishop Cushing dies 
(Continued from page 1) prelate helped reshape and Long before the ecumenical modernize the church's thoughts 
movement began to spread in as a ~ember of the Ecumenical the catholic Church, he led a Council. sort of one man interfaith dialog He was an enigma to other 
with ·Protestant and Jewish churchmen, this gaunt priest leaders. who did not understand Latin, As the church grasped the the liturgical language of the significance of ecumenism, the Catholic Church. But he had a 
.w.:::::::::::·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·":·······································································""
i ··········.. ····························· ·····················································~·~···~·~·~·······~ 
~.11.1:.· Applicants are wanted for the twelve student positions f.:11. ::;:: on the Campus Judicial Board. Any Notre Dame student :$ :i@ who is in academic and disciplinary good standing may ~1~ :;:;: apply. Please send the application to: :;::
I ~~~c~~oo,dinaw I 
:;:~ Student Government :1:1: 1::~:!:!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-:-..;:::::::::::::::::!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~j:: 

Tom Sisson 283-8502 Maureen Maurer 284-4537 Dave Gomez 232-0867 Bob Hartman 233-8142 Dave Pais 283-1333 
Student Union C•lend•r 
For the week of Nove:nber 3 -November 1 
:30 PM. :00, 
10:00 PM. 
:00 PM. 
7:30, 
10:00 PM. 
4:30 PM. 
7:30, 10:00 
1:30 P.M. 
8:30 P.M. 

November 3, Tuesday Election 
Lecture by Douglas Kinsey concerning his recent art works at O'Shaughnessey 
November 4, '.'Vednesday P.C. Rielly Lecture Series in Nieuwland Bergman's "Through a Glass Darkly" in Engineering Auditorium  Science the  Hall  
Choral  November 5, nursday Concert: ND-SMC Chorus  and  Orchestra  at  

O'Laughlin Auditorium "The Graduate" in Washington Hall 
~ovember 6, Friday 
P.C. Rielly Lecture Series in Nieuwland "The Graduate" in Washington Hall 
PM. 

November 7, Saturday 
Football: Pittsburgh at Notre Dame "Sergio Mendes" Concert in the ACC 
Science Hall 
commandmg grasp of the needs as Catholics. of the peopl~ and, in some in-He was close to mixed marri­~tances, pred1cted t~e reform age and befriended "people of 1 ~eals of the Ecumemcal Coun-all faiths and no faiths." His ell. sister married a Jewish furniture 
His was the strongest Ameri-salesman and he once inter-can voice urging Rome to con-rupted a Christmas sermon to done church services in the ver-preach against anti-Semitism. nacular. It was his idea the He also liked to tell the story 
church should forego the of the taxicab driver who said,
agreement it extracts from non-"Your eminence, you're the best Catholics that all children born rabbi in Boston."
in their mixed marriage be raised 

Author of •1 to ••k 
Arthur C. Clarke, inventor of the communications satellite and co-author of the book and film "2001: A Space Odyssey," will speak on "Life in the y car 2001" at 7:30 p.m. Monday (Nov. 9) in the University of Notre Dame's Washington Hall. 
Clarke's talk will be the first of the Arthur J. Schmitt "Challenges in Science" lectures for 1970-71. A top-ranking science writer and master of science fiction, Clarke is t~e author of 40 bdoks. He is the winner of the Franklin Insti­tute's Gold Medal for originating the communications satellite in a technical paper published in 1945, has won two Aviation/ Space Writers Association awards on the history and future of communications satellites, and received the UNESCO Kalinga Prize for science writing. 
In addition to "2001: A Space Odyssey," which was in­spired by one of his short stories "The Sentinel " Clarke has 
Adorable kittens Free· Please give them a home or else they go to the pound. Call 4085 before 5 
p.m. Leave message or call 232·6509 after 6 p.m. 


:·············
ATTENTION: :• Welcome! OBSERVER STAFF :• N.D. 
: TAILOR SHOP • 
• Hrs. 8-12 12:30 4:15 • 
: 5 DAYSA WEEK : 

: AI terations done for all:
Staff Meeting Thursday 4:30 
:occasions. Next to Washing-: :ton Hall -Across from the: 
• Huddle. ~ 

In the Office 
For the purpose of electing a representative to the editorial board. All those interested should submit their names to Editor Glen Corso by midnight Wednesday. 
·················~··· 
ABORTION FORUM 
PANEL DISCUSSION QUESTIONS & ANSWERS 
TONIGHT 
7:30 PM FLANNHR WELL 

authored such" science fiction classics as "A Fall of Moon­dust," "The Sands of Mars" and "Expedition to Earth." He has also written many non-fiction works on science for both adults and children, including "The Ex­p1oration of Space," "The Challenge of the Sea" and "Boy Beneath the Sea." 
The Cast of Characters 

Editor-in-Chief: Glen "Oia Blood'n Guts" Corso Executive Editor: John "The Execu­tioner" Knorr Managing Editor: Bill "The Pen" Car­ter Editorial Page Editor: T.C. "The Po­lemic" Treanor .News Editor: Ed "The Nose for News' Ellis Features Editor: "Feature Creature" Dave Lammers Sports Editor: Terry "The Jock" Shields 
SMC Editor: "Sweet Jeanie" Sweeney 
Associate Editors: Dave Stauffer, Sue Bury Night Editor: Steve '"Tricks up his sleeve" Lazan Headlines and Morale: Debbie Carella (She tickles the fellas) 
Layout: Chris Johnson and Joe An· derson, "The Sons of John and Ander" 
Contributing Deity: R. Lincoln Stoughton Knight of the Controls: Jim McGrath 
Abortion forum set 
by Dave Coleman 
The Notre Dame Biology De­partment and Zero Population Growth will co-sponsor an abor­tion forum at 7:30 tonight at the Flanner Pit. 
The forum has been planned for close to a month, and does not result directly from the con­troversy surrounding publication by The Observer of a New York Abortion Service ad. 
The forum, whose proposed purpose is to evaluate the reality of what abortion is, will have five guest speakers who will dou­ble as panelists. 
Dr. Tweedel, Biology Depart­ment head, U.N.D., will discuss the biological aspects of abor­tion. Dr. Shriever, a gynecolo­gist; will discuss the medical 

SENATORS 
Please stop by Student Government Office to pick up schedule of Budget Considerations and Student Govern· ment Financial Report before Wednes­
day Night. 

imphcations. Father Sheedy, head of the Theology Depart­ment at Notre Dame, will discuss the theological and ethical prob­lems found in the abortion situa­tion. Mrs. Melba Laird from the South Bend Mental Health Clinic, will discuss the psycho­logical impact of abortion on the mass of people as well as the individual. And Dr_ Paulson, from Zero Population Growth will discuss abortion in relation to population control. 
The moderator will be Richard Zakour, president of the Notre Dame Biology Club. For­mat for the forum will be five to eight minute talks by the speakers, then about 20 minutes of panel discussion, to be fol­lowed by a question and answer session. 
The organizers of the program 

expect to promote discussion of this issue from the factual and informal point of view, some­thing they feel has been ne­glected in the recent controversy over The Observer ad. 
WHO IS 

K•thr H•sert ? 
SEE THURSDAY'S 
OBSERVER 

OBSERVER 
POSITION OPENING 
Ass'l. Business Mgr. 
Call Bruce 7472 or 8787 

