-----~-l 

VOL. IV, No. 60 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint M_ary's College Communi~)' JANUARY 8, 1970 

Suppression charged 
by Tim Treanor 
About a hundred braved the frigid South Bend weather to hear American Indians United (AIU) Executive Director Jess Sixkiller warn that the American Indian "must get out of the eighteenth century prison you have kept us in," promise that "Notre Dame can become a vital building block" in Indian education and charge the Federal Government with applying "subtle political pressures" to suppress the distribution of the Edger-Kahn edited book, "Our Brother's Keeper." 
Sixkiller was part of a panel discussion on the ''Solutions to the Problems of the American Indian." Also on the panel were former American Indian Center 

Lynd attacks corporations 
and Fifteen Minute Rule 
by Dave Lammers 
"troublemakers" and 
"deliberately disciplined those 

relative weight of attention paid
Staughton Lynd, radical 

known by the administration by the student body to the historian and presently a leader not to be involved as a deterrent Cotton Bowl as opposed to the of the resistance movement in suspension of the ten students.
Lynd said that this
Chicago, spoke in the 
"What do the administrators
punishment has been extended
enginneering auditorium last 

by the administration by fear?" Lynd asked. He
night about "The Fifteen Minute notifying the draft boards of the contended that their "liberalRule and other Contemporary suspended students new status. rhetoric" conceals their realEvils." 

Several of the suspended concern: property. "TheLynd said th~t the use of the students confirmed that their university is a corporaJion
fifteen minute rule last 

draft boards have been notified within a corporation." LyndNovember 18 was a "haphazard 
of their suspension from Notre said.
quasi-judicial process" that was Dame for the present semester. The historian quoted Tim

picked out random 


Lynd said that the fifteeen M a cCarry's Observer column minute rule is "a lens that 
which said that if Gandhi were encapsulates in microcosm some 
at Notre Dame he would be tried of the things that are tearing up (continued on page 6) our society." He compared the 
Preliminary plans look excellent for SLF '71 
Gang. Brown is the author of the
Preliminary plans for next 
critically acclaimed Manchild in
spring's Sophomore Literary 
the Promised Land. 
Festival have already been organ­
Among the poets listed to
ized by the Festival committee 
appear are Gary Snyder, one ofStaughton Lynd 
headed by co-chairmen Bob Hall 
the most widely-read contemp­to further action." Lynd and Rick Fitzgerald. Many of orary poets and author of Mythscompared this to the United the authors to be included in the and Tests and Anselm Hollo, aStates policy in Vietnam, where Festival's events have been asked well-known English poet who iscivilian supporters of the enemy to remain on campus for the full now teaching in the creativeforces are punished as a week of activities and the com­writing department of Iowa Uni­deterrent. mittee is now beginning the pro­versity and author of two books 

cess of scheduling the order of 
and poems, Faces and Forms
speakers. 
and The Coherences. Nathania!

Weather 
The Festival's keynoter will 
Tarn, a poet-social anthropolo­
be Theodore Solotaroff, editor 
gist and founder of the poetical­
HELL FROZE OVER 
of the highly regarded New 
ly-based Cape Goliard Press is
American Review. Solotaroff is
HELL, Norway (UPI) ­also on the schedule. Tarn for­
considered an authority on con­
The water froze in Hell merly taught at Buffalo Univer­
temporary writers and it is ex­
yesterday when the 
sity and will teach at Princeton
pected that he will address him­
temperature dropped to 6 in the spring. He has written
self to the question of the
degrees below zero. 
Beautiful Contradictions and
modern author in the modern 
Where Babylon Ends.
AND AT NOTRE DAME...•. 
world-•. 
Also included in the week's
The schedule also includes 
events will be a poetry workshop(UPI) -Thursday and 
prose writers Tom Wolfe and

Thursday night partly headed by Stewart Montgomery,
Claude Brown. Wolfe, who gain­

cloudy, chance of snow a British poet and professor,
ed his reputation as a New York

flurries and continued very editor of Fulcrum press. He will
journalist, has penned such

cold. Friday fair with be accompanied by two new
books as The Kandy-Kolored

slight moderation in tem­poets, Tom Pickard and Lee
Tangerine Flake Stream-Lined

peratures. Thursday's high Harwood.
Baby, The Flectric Kool-Aid 
zero to 12 above. 

Acid Test and The Pump House (continued on page 6) 




by Sixkiller 
director Gene Crawford, Dr. according to Ortiz, can read or 
Shirley Hill Witt, Rough Rock write English. 
demonstration school instructor The school features heavy 
Simon Ortiz, an'd Indian emphasis on Indian history and 
Economic Cooperative lead-er bilingualism. The school has four 
Stanley Red Bird. The discussion "phases" instead of grades, and 
was chaired by Julian Samora. the first two phases are taught in 
All the panel members, with the the Navajo language. English is 
exception of Samora, are introduced when the child 
Indians. reaches the age of eight. 
Chairman Samora opened the According to Ortiz, the objective 
discussion by charging that of this project is to make the 
"Reibes, reservations and Indian student equally proficient in 
societies exist without laws; at English and Navajo. 
the mercy of any anarchy force "Rough Rock Demonstration 
that arises. Civil rights are School, by the use of 
ignored. Education is very often bilingualism and the recognition 
devoted to denying the value of of cultural achievements . .is one 
being an Indian, the value of answer that could be posed to 
Indian culture.. .leading to the problem of educating the ·Sllici d e and drunkeness in Indian people," Ortiz said. fourteen, thirteen -even eleven Ortiz was followed by year olds," due to the laxity of Crawford, who vividly described the Federal Government, and an Indian boarding school and 
asserting that the Indian "wants talked about a project that he 
to maintain his cultural had been engaged in while 
identity,"· and "wants to have working in the Omaha (Neb.) 
Indian control. ..of Indian school system. 
agencies." "When you're six years old, 
Ortiz spoke next, and he and an Indian," Crawford said, 
described the Rough Rock "around the end of August, a 
demonstration school at which yellow schoolbus driven by an 
he teaches as an effort to unfriendly driver -always white ­
"recognize the Indian culture." comes by to pick you up. He 
According to Ortiz, an earlier, takes you out of your mother's 
similar attempt failed because of arms and throws you on his bus. 
too much bureaucracy. Then he drives all day across 
The Rough Rock school is unfamiliar territory to a school 
taught by a primarily white five hundred miles away, never 
faculty, but the school board is stopping for fear you'd run 
composed of seven Navajo away 
Indians, only two of which, 
(continued on page 2) 

University Forum to meet on February 6 
and exams.
Culminating eight months of Faccenda characterized thisplanning and preliminary work, 
initial meeting as
the University Forum will hold "organizational" but mainlyits opening meeting on February "social and get together."
6. 

When this outlook was
The Forum was first 
presented to Joe Cottrell, on~ ofpromulgated by Fr. Theodore the student representatives, heHesburgh, president of the outlined proposals to accomplishUniversity, last May. It consists 
something concrete. He
of representatives of each of five 
suggested that the various
divisions of the University divisions should be in immediate
Community students, 
correspondence. Each shouldadministration, faculty, alumni, 
'and trustees. 
Communication is listed as the prime reason for the Forum coming into existence. According to Student Body President Phil McKenna this is exactly the quality which has been lacking in the organizational stages of the body. 
McKenna claims that he had 
not received any information 
more specific than the original 
letter to all students when Mr. 

Phillip Faccenda, Special 
Joe CottrellAssistant to the President, called prepare some sort of memo tohim in mid-summer to ask what the others outlining some of thehis plans for the elections were. 

problems it considers possibleAfter rece1vmg a positive for fruittul discussion. 
report, the Senate adopted the He was optimistic on the issueproposal, elected representatives, of communication with alumniand notified Mr. Faccenda. 
and trustees. Not only are the
Although the tentative 
outsiders extensively unaware ofopening date for the forum had what goes on on campus,been slated for December 8, lack according to Cottrell, but so areof time to gather the various the students. How many of us,
delegates forced postponement until after Christmas vacation 
(continued on page 3) 

r 
PAGE 2 

711B OBSERIIEit JANUARY 8, 1970 

Krashna says differences caused his dismissal 
animosity towards the alumnus It's ironic though, the admis­publicity about it. Students did phies" when it came to black bv Glenn Corso stemmed from an incident which sions director never got publicity the bulk of work for recruitment r~cruitment. He said that theyObserver News Editor occurred last year when the for RAP (Recruitment Action effoits. The admissions office differed over public relations 
Program, which is financed with seems to be trying to take over
Dave Krashna, Arts & Letters same alumnus was recruiting work and how to approach the junior, who was working in the along with representatives from Student Government and Admis­work that we have already individual student. Krashna admissions office on minority Notre Dame. The admissions sions Office funds and run by done." believed in telling the student: 
Krashna said that he and

recruitment, was discharged office received several press student government personnel) the full truth, with both the 
admissions director Dr. Peter

from his position before Christ­releases which stated that the yet as soon as Dr. Seabrooks was good and bad points of Notre 
appointed, he had plenty of Grande had "di!ferent philoso­mas. The alleged reason for his alumnus had said that "any 
dismissal was that he made "an unauthorized recruitment trip" to Dayton, Ohio, during the first week of December. 
"I knew they disapproved of the trip. The whole thing re­volves around an alumnus in Dayton; the admissions· office doesn't like this man. I looked into it, and it seemed to be more of a personality conflict than anything else. He offered his help in recruitment and this is the first time, save once in Columbus, Ohio, when an alumnus has offered to help in black recruitment," Krashna said. 
Krashna stated that the reason for the admissions office's black student who applies to Notre Dame will get in," and that all those who attended would receive "full financial aid." Krashna claimed however that the man was misquoted, and that he did not "say anything like that at all." 
"When I returned I was in­formed I was dismissed from the admissions office. Shortly after that Dr. Seabrooks was named associate director of black re­cruitment. There is a strong sug­gestion there that they hired him, and just got rid of the student," Krashna stated. 
He continued saying "Dr. Seabrooks is very good, I really hope that we can work together. 
Sign-ups scheduled for April Model UN 
The final delegate sign-ups for the Model United Nations will be held this evening .and tomor­row evening in the dining halls, during the dinner hour. The del­egate fee is $3.00, and the sign­ups for the various delegations are being held on a first come first served basis. 
Tim Walch, delegate director, said that there were 170 spots still open, with "several interest­ing countries unrepresented." 
The delegate lists will be posted early next week. The lists will be on the back wall of the Huddle. In addition, all delegates will be notified personally by mail. 
Mike Kelly, Chairman of the 
Model UN, said that there were 
four apparent issues shaping up 
for the session. These are: the 
admission of Red China to the 
UN; the U.S. policy in Vietnam; 
the Arab-Israeli War; and the Rhodesian racial policy. In addi­tion the Secretary General will announce to the assembly a "manufactured crisis" which they will deal with. 
There will be three U.N. com­mittees set up for the session, the Trusteeship Committee, the Economic-Security Committee, and the Economic-Political com­mittee. The first committee meetings will be held in early March. 
Walch said that all "resolu­tions to be considered by the assembly must be in the hands. of the Secretary General, Tim Kendall, by Feb. 22nd. Further information concerning resolu­tions will be contained in the delegate packets which will be distributed before finals. 
The assembly will be held 
April 8th and 9th in Stepan Cen­
ter. A list of potential guest 
speakers includes Averill Har­
riman and Arthur Goldberg. 


WANTED 
Student 
Union 

Secretary 
Positions for both morning & afternoon jobs open for second semester. Call 7757 or write to: 
Student Union 

Box 427 LaFortune Student Center 
Deadline: Tuesda), Jan. 13 
Sixkiller charges government with suppression of his book 
(continued from page 1) 

When you get there, it's late at night and you haven't eaten, but they don't feed you, because Indians starve so you're probably not used to eating anyway. But they always give you a bath, because Indians are always dirty, and they cut your hair, because Indians always have lice, and then they de-lice you, just to make sure. Then they send you to bed, and expect you to sleep, because Indians aren't supposed to have any emotions. But you don't sleep much that night. In fact, 
you don't sleep much the next six months. You know its Thanksgiving because they give you a piece of brown construction paper and tell you to make a turkey with it. You know it's Christmas because they give you a green construction paper and tell you to make an evergreen tree out of it. You know it's Easter because you're given all the leftover construction paper and told to ..make an Easter egg out of it. 
And when you get home in May, 
it's Thanksgiving and Christmas 
and Easter. 
Crawford also talked about the project in Omaha, a Rough Rock type school. "We no longer say 'a hoarde of savages," the 41 year old director said " we now say, 'a group of' Indians, probably about fifteen'." 
"The Indian is at the bottom rung of a ladder," Crawford said, "but they are still part of the ladder, and if one rung is no good than the ladder is no good." 
Dr. Witt cited a need for Indian lawyers in her address. She also said that liberal arts to the Indian "can be phony, can be contrived," but are "often things of great value." She is presently working on an anthology of Indian writing. 
Dr. Witt also cited a need for "lexicons and orthography", but warned that it is "meaningless unless the Indian people 
themselves are consulted and allowed to participate." 
Stanley Red Bird, in a short speech, admitted that he had been having problem's with his Indian economic co-operative venture, but said that he had "learned a lot" from his Notre Dame visit and thanked all concerned. 




Pears reveals arrests 
A series of arrests were made over the Christmas vacation by campus security director Arthur Pears, revealed last night. On December 24, two youths were apprehended near the Athletic and Convocation Center, while ransackin~ a car. The car was unlocked and the youths both about fourteen years of ~~e, had removed a clock, a radio, and flashlight from the vehicle when they were apprehended. 

Thrills of the slopes 

attract many students 
With the holiday season inter­rupting the routine of many midwestern colleges and univer­sities, students inevitably find ways to relax and forget the drudgery of daily classes. For many, this means nothing more than traveling north to wing their way down snow covered peaks and let the wind do what it will. College students always go where the action is, and the fast growing sport of skiing fills the bill. Expert or beginner, the thrills of the slopes themselves and the quiet moments just relaxing around the fire provide the student with a ready excuse to forget final exams. The people are friendly, the atmos­phere is warm, and the entertain­
ment exciting, all combining to make a ski trip the ideal' vacation. 
More and more colleges now organize their own ski outing through ski clubs and organiza­tions. These clubs are open to beginners and advanced skiers the only requirement being th~ will and desire to enjoy yourself. Colleges are picking the northern part of Michigan for many of these trips. The area known as "Boyne Country" is becoming increasingly popular because of its easy accesibility by highway, two topflight resorts at Boyne Mountain and Boyne Highlands, and skiing every year tight aftei: Thanksgiving. So grab some friends and go where the action is. 

OBSERVER STAFF 
Pictures will be taken for the Yearbook on Friday 
4:00-Stephan Center-Night Editors and Associate Editors 
4:30-Second Flovr LaFortune Lounge -Sunday, Monday and. Tuesday night staff, Features staff, Columnists, Busmess staff 
5:00-Lobby of Center for Continuing Education -Wed­nesday and Thursday night staffs, Sports Staff and reporters 
5:30-Lobby of Center for Continuing Education-All other editors (Sports, News, Photography, etc.) 
Editors: wear coats and ties 
In se p erate incidents, teenagers were apprehended siphoning gasoline from cars in the university village. Campus security prevented six others from forcibly entering Carroll Hall. According to Pears, the latter group wanted to play basketball in Carroll Hall, and "probable did not intend to steal or destroy anything." 
Campus security also located a stolen car behind Sorin Hall on December 24, the car had been reported stolen from the C2 parking lot. Pears also said that a room had been broken into in 
Alumni Hall over the Christmas vacation. The stolen goods, which included a stereo record player, were valued at $1300. 
CIA to return; 


DOW date unset 
Rev. Louis J. Thornton, Dir­ector of the Placement Bureau, refused to comment yesterday when asked if either the Dow Chemical Company or the Central Intelligence Agency had sent any statement to the . University concerning the demonstration directed toward them last November. Thornton did say, however, that since re­cruiting dates are set several months in advance, both Dow and the CIA will have recruiters visit the campus in the future. The Placement Bureau director said that Dow will have a repre­sentative on campus to interview students on February seventeen­th and eighteenth. He did not give any date for the CIA repre­sentative's visit. 
Thornton refused to comment because of the degree of contro­versy surrounding the recent trial of the Notre Dame Ten. He felt that by refusing comment, he would avoid the possibility of having his statement misunder­stood and causing further irrita­tion in the situation. 

JANUARY 8, 1970 711£ OBSERfJIIt PAGE 3 


FBI leads massive manhunt in Yablonski murder case 
CLARKSVILLE, Pa. (UP I)-State police said yesterday at least two persons murdered United Mine Workers  The FBI entered the case with plans to conduct its move intensive manhunt since the assassination of Martin Luther  the master bedroom and the other inside the mattress in the same room, where the Yablonskis were sleeping."  faQlily. Roving pickets closed several mines in northern West Virginia where leaders of UMW District  yesterday unless the slayers were apprehended. However, the mine closings were confined to a three state area.  
UMW official Joseph A. "Jock"  King.  The  FBI  said  it  would  Snyder identified  one of the  31 had vowed to shutdown all of  Funeral services for the three  
Yablonski  and  his  wife  and  interview thousands of persons,  spent bullets as a .38 caliber, the  the  nation's  mmes  bv  noon  victims will be held Friday.  

daughter while they slept. They also said it was possible Yablonski attempted to protect his family with a shotgun before he was cut down by five bullets in the bedroom of his home. Two shotgun shells were found under his body and an unloaded shotgun was on a windowsill near the bed, police said. 
Summa to 90o/o of goal 
Notre Dame's major capital gifts program has hit 90 per cent same as the nine other spent bullets found in the home previously. He said the other was believed to be a .30 ~aliber rifle bullet "but this is not conclusive." 
Yablonski, who close friends and relatives said feared for his life, kept two guns in his· bedroom. In addition to the shotgun, state police said an unloaded .22 caliber rifle was propped in the corner of the bedroom. 
Ten thousand miners in Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Ohio remained idle Wednesday in sympathy with the Yablonski including UMW President W.A. "Tony" Boyle. 

Thousands of miners in the three state area continued their sympathy walkout. 
Capt. Joseph C. Snyder of the Pennsylvania State Police said at least two weapons were used to 
kill YablonsKi, 59, his wife, 57, and his daughter, Charlotte, 25, in their colonial style home near this community in the heart of the soft coal fields. Their bodies were found Monday. 
"We have found two additional spent bullets," Snyder said. "One was on the f19or in 
of its $52 million goal slightly more than two years after its launching. 
The development program, named "Summa: Notre Dame's Greatest Challenge," has reached $46,968,900, Dr. O.C. Car­michael, Jr., a South Bend, Ind., 
business executive who heads the campaign, reported. 
More than 28,500 gifts have been made to "Summa" since it was announced in September, 1967, including almost 19,000 alumni commitments which are averaging $925 per gift. Notre Dame's trustees have given $5,398,782 to the program, and its faculty and administration $113,549. 
Providence, R.I., with 307 per 
cent of its $20,000 quota raised, leads all 6 I major metropolitan areas in the nation involved in the campaign. In terms of dollar amounts, New York City ( $ 9 , 0 3 5 ,8 2 I ) and Chicago ($7,380,811) lead "Summa"cities. 
Major segments of the "Sum­ma" program are faculty de­velopment, $20 million; gradu­ate education, $13.9 million; special research programs, $4.5 million, and general University development, $13.5 million. 
Forum to meet 
(continued from page 1) 
he asks, had any inkling of the schedule changes that were put into effect this year? Further, only seniors have access to the issue of "Insight" that answered many financial questions. 
Cottrell claims that much of the apparent alumni reactionary comments come from the fact that they went to college in a different era. That students should ignore such things as grades and football for political issues "honestly never occurred to them... " A lessening of the two way communication through the Forum should lead to positive proposals to the relevant legislative bodies. 
ATIENTION SMC GIRLS 
ackseat Boogie Inc. brings yo nother fantastic offer, win-a-date nter now. !;'or Information cal 
026. Ask for Jo-Jo, Pruss, Dr. B, o 'Crusher". 
fhe Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 


Grant awarded Pasto to study at Stanford 
Dr. Daniel J. Pasto, professor at Notre Dame. Stanford has one 
of chemistry at the University of of the top chemistry depart­
Notre Dame, has received a ments in the country, he 
senior postdoctoral fellowship explained, and is near several 
from the National Science other major universities. 
Foundation to study at Stanford Pasto is particularly interest­
University in the coming ed in researching the areas of 
academic year. biochemistry and organo­
Under the terms of the fellow­metallics, the study of organic 
ship, Pasto will spend the year molecules containing metal ions. 
surveying the field of organic His fellowship will coincide with 
chemistry and evaluating the a sabbatical leave from Notre 
curriculum and projects current Dame. 
711B OBSERIIEit
PAGE 4 




THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
Donald C. Holliday, Publisher Gaetano De Sapio, Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Editorial 
To engender respect 
The ten students who blocked the door to the Dow Recruiter in November were suspended before Christmas vacation. Father Riehle's action to reduce the sentences all to the same level was wise in many respects. 
The ten were disrupting the normal operations of the university and were not willing to move from the doorway of their own accord. When threatened with the possibility ofs suspension some still stayed on and would not even move when faced with the possibility of expulsion. Why? Possibly becal}se they were willing to risk both for the sake of their beliefs. But in all likelihood, though this is pure conjecture, some were not willing to move because they did ~ot really believe that the university was going to follow through on its policy and expel them. They had ­seen university regulations go unenforced for too long -as had many others. 
1 
When Harvard had a building taken over by protesting Blacks last month the protestors left after they were told that they would be expelled if they didn't. The same 
policy as Notre Dame, though probably not quite as 
publicized, and at a bastion of liberalism. The students left the building of their own accord. Why, because they did not feel their cause to be just? Probably not-but because they had.respect for the university they were dealing wtth and for the wont of its spokesman. They knew that if Harvard threatened to expel them, it probably would. 
Respect for an educational institution and for its policy is developed in a number of ways. The first is by being consistent. It can not state one thing publically and do another privately. This has been one of Notre Dame's major shortcomings. A lot of times its policies have not even meant much to the men who had formulated them. 
It is in this respect that Father Riehle's action was wise. If the university is to be believed, if its word is to be respected then it had to enforce its policy on demonstrations. 
But having one's word respected and being respected as an institution are two quite different things. If a university is not responsive to the needs of the student, if it is not willing to talk with him, or waits until forced to do so, then the chances of it engendering the respect of all its students are very slim. 
This is another of Notre Dame's failings. The question of university complicity was not talked about before the Dow protest in November. It has not been talked about seriously since then. The ten students presented a 14 page "defense" outlining their feelings on the issue. What administrator has made a comment on it? 
Serious talk about the issue of university complicity would probably do more to create an "atmosphere in which productive dialogue about the meaning of academic community· and a Christian community" can take place than did Father's act of clemency. It is time now for the university to make its first move toward creating a community here, if that is what it is to be called. 
The University Forum, the "body representing every group that is a part of this place" should meet soon to discuss the issue of university complicity. It should meet before Dow and CIA come back to recruit this year. The university must act if the word "respect" is to mean anything more than the belief that the university will stick to its word and expel students who disrupt the "normal operations" of this place. 
The opinions in the editorials, news analyses and columns of The Observer are solely those of the authors and editors of The Observer and do not necessarily reflect the views of the University of Notre Dame, St. Mary's College, their administrations, faculty or students. 


Rich Hunter 

What Went Wrong 
As we begin the New Year of 1970, it might serve us all well to look back on what we as a people have accomplished this past year, and to make a few resolutions for 1970. 
Last year, we saw one of the closest election contests in our histories. Feelings on both sides ran high; on election day no candi­date could claim a clear and decisive margin. It was evident, how­ever, that the first priority of the new government must be an attempt to bring about a unity of the entire electorate-a unity that would be vital if any progress was to be made. The defeated candi­date offered his congratulations and his talent to the delicate task of "bringing us all together." He had served for years as both a well known and widely respected public servant and had established a wide rapport with the members of the previous administration and those generally known as "the powers that be." It has even been said that his strongest point was exibited in his choice of a running mate who brought many supporters and voters to the ticket. 
The new government began its tenure then in· the promise that this would be both an imaginative and productive year. An attempt was made to bring new and talented people into the government. Priorities were set which aimed at the creation of a new idea of community -and it would have to be a vital and meaningful one for many citizens who had become alienated from a government which they considered unresponsive and overly bureaucratic. It faced a huge task but all hoped .that it would meet the challenge. 
Then, crisis seemed to beset the new administration. A financial disaster loomed; the president asserted he had inherited the problem from the previous administration. A tax increase was sought but was soundly defeated. After an initial promise to hold the line on spend­ing, the government insisted on a planned big deficit. A close legisla­tive battle shaped up on an important presidential priority and the Senate was evenly and vociferously divided. Even though the contro­versial program was eventually passed, the Senate was left crippled. On another occasion, the President called upon the phenominon "the silent majority" for support, but found that few were interest­ed and even supported his position. 
Throughout this period, the Vice President began to attract more and more attention. He became the chief spokesman for the admini­stration in purely "political" affairs. He attempted to ally the government with various "ultra" movements which arose in various isolated segments of the electorate. In general, he became more dog­matic and more the "hatchet man" as the year progressed. His role in the great Senate battle was large and to a great extent he contri­buted most to the devisiveness that exists both within that body and within the citizenry itself. 
As the year _progressed also, it became evident also that unity was not being achieved; indeed to many, it seemed that unity was no longer being sought. The government had succeeded in driving a wedge between its citizens; whites were hostile to cries of racism; blacks felt alienated and mistrusted the white; a genuine tax revolt was promised. The government had not gone into the individual constituencies as it had promised. In fact, it remained a bureaucratic captive, confined in its numerous offices and conference rooms. 
What happened to that bright promise of last April I? What went 
wrong Phil and Fred? Perhaps the answer lies in the fact that year after year the best people in our community are not involved in student government because they remain alienated from what they see to be a hopeless and unresponsive bureaucracy. And unless the situation is changed, Student Government will remain as a practical non-entity and failure. 
Crimmons Ttmottty .L ~llltf.: Photo Editor: Mike Murphy 11eWs eaitor: Gl.n emtrr 
O.id Breen. euti..-Mlnlll8r 

Features Editor: Dave Stauffer SMC News E~: Pru-~ 
Sports Editor: Mike Pevlll' Wear Night Editor: Jim Holsinger 
AIIOCillte Edit0f1: Cliff Wiii­Layout Design: Phil Barth U.Ocia-· Ann Conwav. I..8Uiw Layout: Dan Shaw. Susie Bury, Haferd, ,..,...sw.-1 Bro. Patrick Carney 
t..,.ut Etlltor: 1WI8ry Bedl Headlines: Rich Smith, Tom Law 
JANUARY 8, 1970 THE OBSERfiER 
PAGE 5 

1970: A New Year Fable 
by Marilyn Becker 
Once upon a time (as all good fairy­tales begin), there was a young, innocent St. Mary's girl, young and innocent heroines being essential, also, to fairytales. This young, innocent child happily spent her Christmas vacation at home with her Mommy and Daddy and, her twelve sisters and three brothers. She had a good time, opening Christmas presents, going to Christmas parties, spending Christmas Eve with Santa Claus, and so forth and so on. 
Low and behold, however: after two and a half weeh of such joy and happiness, her tranquil Christmas vacation 1mded with a thud. One New Year's day leading inexorably into the next, the fore-doomed day of January 4th arrived. Our young and innocent heroine was forced, urged, coerced, and compelled by circumstance to retur'l to the winter of her discontent deep in the wilds of South Bend. (You see, in the best romantic tradition she had been forced to give her word to pledge that she would return to the Enchanted Castle precisely seventeen days, four hours, six minutes, and twenty-eight seconds after she left, or forfeit her scholarship funds). 
As luck would have it, our heroine was inadvertently caught in a monstrous snowstorm just minutes out of O'Hare Field, which necessitated her plane's landing in Toronto, instead. With the minutes ticking by and her time running out, the young and innocent St. Mary's girl was forced to commandeer a passing dogsled, now her only hope of reaching St. Mary's on time. She won the heart of 
the little old drivef', so lively and quick ... whoops! sorry about that! ... anyway, she won his heart with her sad story, he agreed to drive her to South Bend, and, after numerous adventures too sordid to recount here, she finally did reach South Bend and St. Mary's. 
BUT!-she arrived seventeen days, four hours, six minutes, and twenty-nine (had you guessed?) seconds after she left: she was one second late! 
Terrified, she went to see the stern­but -sympathetic-and-fairly-understanding progressive spider, her master, who had a cozy web in the Registrar's Office. Ordinarily, this spider was implacable, but in view of her sterling character, her perfect record, and her obvious effort to comply with the rules, he decided that in her case he would make an exception: she wouldn't have to leap from the roof of Le Mans after all. To atone for her sin she would only have to undergo the rigours of Registration! 

"No, no," she pleaded hysterically, "not that! That's cruel and inhuman punishment!" 
But the spider had spoken; her pleas were in vain. He directed her to go to her mailbox, pull out the course schedule booklet she would find there, and follow the directions enclosed. Weeping, she did as he bade her. 
"Step No. 1: Select your courses from any one of the ten numbered pages. You may take any course you want, as long as it's: a) a requirement, b) an elective in. your major, c) a last resort. Make sure you select only those courses offered at 8 
a.m. and 4 p.m., as those are the only courses listed. Don't even look at the professor's name; all the ones you wanted are on sabaticalleave anyway. 
"Step No. 2: Get the approval of your advisor, who has left town for a two week vacation. 
"Step No. 3: Return for the signature of your department chairman, who will be in his office for ten minutes (no two of which are consecutive) each day of registration week. Do not ask him any questions. Chances are he is as confused as you are, as no one told him about any of this either. 
"Step No. 4: Go back to your room and rearrange your schedule, as your department chairman has just pointed out that three of the courses you signed up for don't exist. 
"Step No. 5: Go back to your department chairman. Wait two and a half hours in the line outside his office. 
"Steps Nos. 6-12: Repeat steps 4 and 5 many times. 
"Step No. 13: Take the whole mess to the building marked (currently the ROTC building on the Notre Dame campus). You reach this after a harrowing journey through dragons, ogres, and witches in subzero weather. There your class schedule will be fed to a giant schedule-eating computer. 
"Step No. 14: Wonder how the' computer ever gave you the schedule it did after reading the one you had marked." 
by Dave Lammers The community has been blessed with a new and unique publication, ICTUS magazine, a joint student-faculty effort that is sponsored by the Program for the Study and Practice of the Non-violent Resolution of Human Conflict. The magazine, 2000 free copies of which are being distributed today, has an interesting history. Mario Corradi, pre­sently studying non-violence at Yale, last spring taught a philosophy course here that included John O'Reilly, Denis Lundy, and Michael Feeney. Instead of writing term papers, the three put to­gether a makeshift magazine, which this fall has been expanded, refined, and most importantly, printed up and distributed. It is a voice of the non-violence program, but it speaks to those who are interested but not yet involved with those. people, and it hopes to attract contributors, dis­senters, and mostly, I guess, readers. ICTUS is not Playboy. It is modest but professional, it is free, and it has no dirty words, pictures, or jokes, tho-ugh it has 

ICTUS released today 
some fine pictures. The authors, like all hard driving truth seekers, reach out of the pages and slap my face with their thoughts, their challenges, their indict­ments, their none-too-gentle grappling with the monolith of violence that is choking our society. 
I know that Denis Lundy is somehow speaking to me, to us, when he says, "I am conscious, but the weight of the globe is on my head and as of yet I have only run away." His article, "Money Talks and Nobody Walks" rambles a bit, but he puts Christianity, Kierkegarard, and "the power structure" into perspective. 
Michael Feeney, another student con­tributor, strikes another loud chord inside me with his comments on the risks in­volved in the non-violent life style. John O'Reilly, in a more personal way, touches on our day-to-day lives and relationships here at Notre Dame. 
Of the faculty contributors, George Williams, a government professor, has written a very factual and realistic review of the causes and extent of violence in the American fibre. Williams integrates 

A time of beginning 
by Dennis Wall 
The decade of the 1970's is now upon us. There can be no turning back to what well may have been the comparative sec­urity of the past, no halting the onrush of time. As Canute failed to stop the tides of the sea, the dangers held in store by the future for America and for the world will not be put off with mere rhetoric. Wish­ful thinking and hopes for a better course of events alone shall offer us little. Yet, man need not be the victim of misfor­tunes caused largely through his own ac­tions and through a failure to deal direct­ly with the problems that faced him in the past. 
We who are fortunate enough to secure a college education, whether through choice or through chance, are a privileged few and .a select minority. From among us will come those who will shape Amer­ica's future and, consequently, the world's. We have the responsibility, as well as the opportunity, to make those changes which are necessary for the bet­terment of the condition of man. At the same time we must hold on to the best of the old, remembering that what is dated is not necessarily useless or outworn and that which is new is not necessarily bene­ficial. We must be certain not to put our faith in catchy slogans and colorful ban­ners, but to give our trust and confidence to those universal ideals which were the cornerstones of this country's founding. If we are to be truly determined to work for a moral order and for just law, then we must be sure to include in our deter­mination every member of the world community and every citizen of this na­tion, regardless of his condition of life, his age, his social status or the language which he speaks. These things cannot happen quickly, much as we would wish them. to. We may not accomplish any­thing tangible in our entire lifetime, bpt we must make the attempt to do so. 
We cannot avoid mistakes nor sidestep misfortune, for criticizing the mistakes of the past is no guarantee of avoiding them in the future. We have seen enough of sit-ins; it is now time to stand up anti make a positive contribution. It is time to turn rhetoric into reality, and time to apply the American ideal to the six mil­lion who go hungry i.n this nation and to the twenty million Americans whose skin coloring happens to be different from the majority. Yet, despite all detractors, and despite all inequities, America is the one nation in the world that most represents the integrity of freedom and the pursuit of honorable justice. The nations of the world look to us, in this decade of the 1970's, for hope; the burden will be upon this generation to see that they are not disappointed. 

various surveys and opinion polls in his analysis of disorder, disobedience, and authority. All students should secure a copy of the magazine for the wealth of public opinion information in Williams' article. 
Available in this first edition of ICTUS is Father David Burrell's homily at the resistance Mass on October 15. Also, Charles McCarthy, director of the non­violence program, speaks of non-violence as that "renewal of mind and heart which demands an intense discipline, a profound religious faith, and above all, the willing­ness to pick up the cross instead of the sword." 
If you are a man searching, and know it, don't blow it. Read ICTUS magazine. It won't cost you any money, but its realty not free. 


Saints perform tonight 
"Ther Company of Wayward Saints", the National Traveling Players of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre, will perform this week at the South Bend Art Association. The company has toured throughout the eastern and mid-western United States, with most recent perfor­mances being in Detroit and Pittsburgh. The Gompany of seven actors, four men and three women, tour in a single car, and carry all set pieces, costumes and props with them. The touring Company is direc­ted by Reginald Bain, whose recent pro­ductions for the ND/SMC Theatre include Camelot, Rhinoceros, and for the LTRC Company this summer, Luther, and The Private Ear and The Public Eye. 
Bob Hartman 
The play th~ they will perform is a comedy about a group of commedia 
dell'arte actors, actors who improvise 
their play everywhere they go. The show 
is costumed along the lines of the 
original Italian costumes of the com­
media, even though the setting of the 
show is the present day. 
The play will be presented with no ad­
m~ion charged, this evening, January 
8th, at 7:30P.M. at the Art Center, 121 
N. Lafayette Blvd., South Bend. 
Film today 
"lnteregnum," a filmstrip of satire drawings by George Croz, will be shown today in the Art Galleq at I : 15, and 3 
p.m. The showing is sponsored by the Art Gallery and the public is invited. : 


PAGE 6 7118 OBS£Rrla JANUARY 8, 1970 


Desegregation runs into parental obstacles 
JACKSON, Miss. (UPI) ­Angry white parents in the tiny town of Petal, Mississippi, defi­antly refused yesterday to trans­fer their children to a Negro school in keeping with the U.S. Supreme Court's "desegregate now" mandate. 
Resentment against the court's sweeping order for total and immediate desegregation of 30 of Mississippi's 148 school districts boiled into the open for the first time when the parents of 280 youngsters assigned to a black school shouted down the superintendent of the Forrest County school district and poured back into the children's old white classrooms. 
Chanting "hell no, we won't go," they sent empty buses to the black school where I00 Negroes were left without white classmates. 
Petal, a town of ailout 4,000, is located in sout~ast Missis­
sippi a few miles north of Hat­tiesburg. 
The confrontation at the Petal Junior High School was the first massive vocal opposition to the 
desegregation orders smce classes began· reopening Monday after the holidays. Only 9 of the 30 districts actually have resumed schoolwork, including four dis­tricts that opened Wednesday. 
Another three districts begin classes Thursday and Friday and 13 open next Monday. The remainder return during the next two weeks. The federal courts set a Dec. 31, 1969 deadline for the integration. 
White opposition to the mas­sive transfers of white students into black schools and blacks to white schools had been evi­denced prior to yesterday in a quiet withdrawal of whites to private schools in districts with heavy black enrollments. Most whites have returned to integ­rated schools only in places 
Notre Dame named in top fen programs 
The University of Notre Dame ments made to capital gifts pro­is among the nation's top ten grams, according to a report of universities in terms of commit-the American Association of where they are in the majority. 
WANTED Campus Representative Unlimited Commissions No Investment, No Paperwork Write for Information to: Miss Barbara Kumble College Bureau Manager Record Club of America 270 Madison Avenue New York, New York_ 10016  Fund-Raising Counsel, Inc. The association's survey covered 122 college and univer­sity capital gifts programs of $10 million and more, and Notre Dame was listed 1Oth with commitments of $46.4 million towards its $52 million "Summa" program goal. (The "Summa" campaign total has since grown a half-million dollars to $46.9 or 90 per cent of the goaL) Among other institutions in the "top ten" were the Univer­sity of Chicago, which led all universities with $160.5 million reported at the time of the sur­vey, and the University of Southern California, Columbia University, Northwestern Uni­versity, the University of Pennsylvania, Duke University, Washington University (St. Louis, Mo.), Syracuse Univer­sity, and Case-Western Reserve Medical Center. The association reported that more than $4.53 billion is being sought in the 122 capital gifts campaigns and that commit­ments totaled $2.40 billion in Novemher.  
YOGA Beginning Jan. 8, 1970 825 Notre Dame A VB\ 6:00, 7:15, 8:30PM. Phone 287-3744  
Coalition for Political Action meeting 7:30 123 Nieuwland Science Hall PLANS FOR SPRING  
SKI CLUB MEETING Tonight at 7:15 232 Moreau (SMC) All those interested in Caberfae at semester break Must attend or call4155  


In Wilkinson County where blacks outnumbered whites three to one, only two white stu­dents are left in the public schools, while in Columbia ~nd Quitman, where whites hold a majority, most of the white stu­dents returned to classes. 
'Bundled against 16 degree tempe.ratures, white parents re­fused to take their children to Travillion and went back to Petal instead. Superintendent Milton Evans called them into the gymnasium and urged them to put their children on buses to Travillion. 
"The school board has no other choice," Evans said. "We do, though," came a shout from the parents. 
"The assignments have been made and there is nothing 'else we can do," Evans persisted. The whites then began chanting, "Hell no, we won't go," and one father yelled, "We don't have to go to no U.S. Negro schooL" 
The white parents and their children spent several hours mil­ling around the schools, and then finally left. 
Academic freedom negated by complicity with corporations 
(continued from page 1) 
Biblical references were used throughout Lynd's speech, who is a Quaker from Philadelphia. He pointed to the "theology of hope" which holds that man does have control over history and that barriers must be confronted at various points in history. 
Lynd then went into a historical recounting of the motivation behind the "ultra resistance," those groups that burned draft files in various American cities. 
He quoted Father Phi Berrigan of the Catonsville Nine, when he said "We quarrel with the idolatry of property. Some property has no right to exist." Lynd asserted that many times American society puts property rights ahead of human, personal rights, and that it was a purpose of the resistance movement to reverse these priorities. 
Lynd outlined the progression of the resistance movement from the days when students chanted, "Hey, hey, LBJ, how many babies have you killed today" to the present, more sophisticated attack at "where the seeds of the war policy lie." It was Lynd's belief that much of our foreign policy is determined by "the death dealing corporations." 
"We realize now a deeper evil 
in the economic mainsprings of 
society and foreign policy: the 
corporations. Until we have 
confronted the economic 
policies of the American 
corporations, we cannot begin to 
stop the structure that produces 
the Viet Nams. The fifteen 
minute rule is in the context of 
thisstructure,"Lyndsaid. 
"Where did these handful of executives get the power to 
make decisions that vitally affect 
our lives?" Lynd asked. He 
t·ypothesized that America 
would have a viable foreign policy when there is a type of communal ownership of corporations. This ownership would not be like that in Russia, however, where there is just "bureaucratic centralism." 
L y n d d e fended the 
Sl F hopes for visits by writers 
(continued from page 1) 
Hall and Fitzgerald empha­sized that all the authors have been asked to stay for more than one day. The plan calls for each of the writers to spend some time in the classrooms both at Notre Dame and SMC, and lead discussion groups. 
. "Our main intent is forming
I

some real kind of student-author 
'I contact. We think this kind of contact would prove invaluable to anyone interested in literature and especially to those students L...-----------------------------1interested in writing," Hall said. 
destruction of "unjust property" by citing Thomas Jefferson's idea that the peasant that has no property has a right to take over the property of the rich landlord that has more than he needs. Various students from the audience commented on this idea of just and unjust civil laws, citing St. Thomas Acquinas' "Treatise on Law" and papal encyclicals. 
The universities are related to this system of power, Lynd said, through their investment portfolio, "the key to the university's political partnership." It was pointed out that the Administration, while making the investments of the University public, has declined to reveal the amounts. A student said that the reason the University gave for this refusal was that "it would effect the market." 
Lynd suggested that a student-faculty committee be formed that would take the opinion of the University community of the corporation's investment to the stockholders meeting and "create a presence there." Lyn'd gave the meeting dates and places of various corporations stockholders meetings. 
Lynd cited the actions of Stanford University as an example of effective resistance to university complicity. Standford had owned the Stanford Research Institute, 
which did a great deal of defense work. Approximately 600 students sat in one of the laboratories until an open debate between students and trustees was guaranteed. After the success of the students at revealing the nature and effect of the university investments, Lynd recounted, the Research Institute was sold. 

Lynd asked interested students to write him at his Chicago address, 735 S. Bennett, Chicago, Ill. 60649. 
Cancer Society renews its grant 
The Allen County Cancer Society has renewed its grant of $5,000 for the support of a graduate student pursuing a program in cancer research at the University of Notre Dame. 
Clifford Bellone, a graduate student from California, will receive this year's award. Three membet:s of the society's board of directors presented the grant to the Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., vice president of academic affairs and Dr. Morris Pollard, director of the germ-free 
research  center,  Lobund  
Laboratory.  
Pollard  pointed  out  that  

support and recruiting of gra­duate students will provide benefits over a 25 year period or longer. Mrs. Gilbert Meyers, secretary of the board, Mr. Gene Pyle, chairman of public rela­tions and Mr. Mark Weber, a board member, added that the society regularly contributes to research, education and service for the purpose of conquering cancer. 

Krashna says differences caused his 
r e m 0 v a 1 1r0 m recru itm e n t pr o gr a m 
impression of the student. Dame, while the admissions Krashna mentioned the New office believed in a more favor-York recruitment trip under-able outlook on Notre Dame. taken by him and Fred Dedrick, 
"It is horrible to go out and Art McFarland, and Phil tell kids that it is really bad here, McKenna, which was sponsored especially when you are trying by Student Government. to· get them to come here. It's Krashna did the same work on just as bad, though, to tell them this trip, as he had done on that it is really great here, and previous trips for the admissions then have them come and find office. Krashna stated that he out the truth," Krashna said. realized the importance of the 
Krashna emphasized that he work, so he called Fr. Hesburgh was interested in coordinating before leaving and told him what the efforts of RAP and the he was doing. Hesburgh spoke to admissions office, so as to Dr. Grande and told him "to provide the greatest possible help Dave all he could." Krashna effort towards minority recruit-claimed that Dr. Grande's hP-lp ment. He also stressed that there was "minimal." Despite this is a definite need for a student though Krashna said that "over to work in the admissions office fifty students in New York re­in minority recruitment. He said quested applications for Notre that he favored having students Dame." in on all phases of admissions, including the decision of "We are going to have to sit whether to accept or reject down with the admissions office applicants. He felt this is neces­and map out black recruitment," sary, since many of the criteria Krashna claimed and that "the for minority students' admission . students and Dr. Grande will be is based on intangible factors, meeting in the near future to coupled with the recruiter's plan the recruitment." 


1""""'--------------------------------------------------------­





--.-1 
JANUARY 8. 1970 PAGE 7
711B OBSERfJER. 
-~~ 

The 'VVhy'of the'Notre Dame Ten' 
This is the first in a series ofarticles which will reprint parts of the defense that the "Notre Dame Ten" offered at their trial before Christmas. Although  nature of that effect cannot be con­sidered to be taken blindly or capri­ciously, they clearly represent a political position. For example:  industry. It must accept as reasonably ethical the arrange­m•cnts that it facilitates, for it is obvious that only some organiza­ the political and economic system re­presented by Dow and CIA. And in­stead of exercising a critical function over this system, this univer~ity  
the trial is over the ten in their defense  tions  are  allowed  to recruit  on  chooses  to  cooperate  with and  ·even  
raised a number of points which they  a) It is obvious that the invest­ campus  (e.g.,  it  is  hard  to  avidly seek favors from that system!  
felt  the  community  should consider.  ment  policy  followed  with  imagine the Placement Bureau's  3. The placement interviews of Dow  
We  would  appreciate hearing your·  regard  to  an  endowment has a  scheduling interviews for the Ku  and  the  CIA  are  therefore  merely  
reactions  to  them  as  we are sure  the  definite  social  and  political  Klux Klan, the Progressive Labor  symbols of this political stance of the  
ten  and  the  rest  of the  community  effect.  In  recognition  of  this  Party,  the  Lawyer's  Guild,  a  University  -the  stance  we  refer  to  
would. -ed.  fact, church groups and others in  local Brothel, etc.)  when we speak of "University compli­ 
Our actions on November 18 were necessitated by the political position assumed and steadily maintained by the University of Notre Dame Admini­ recent years have been with­drawing their investments from companies whose policies on race, war, or social conditions they cannot condone.  2. Now the point of these examples is to show that the University acts in a political fashion and manifests a coher­ent political position. And the position that the University Administration has chosen by its actions is to affirm the  city." But these are indeed symbols "which contain and communicate what they signify" -the subservience of the University to a vicious political and economic system. We therefore find them intolerable to the extent  ..  
stration. In the following we will try  structures and assumptions  -indeed,  that we find that subserviJmce intoler­ 
to discuss that position, the rules that  b) The university in its coopera­ the very institutions (such as the Dow  able.  
defend it, and its relation to the Uni­ tion  with  the  military  for  the  Chemical Company and the Central In­ 4. Now it is surely incumbent on all  
versity as an academic community. It  production of junior officers is  telligenc'e Agency) which  are  respon­ of us to put up with evils in an institu­ 
should become clear that the situation  at the very least professing that  sible for the Vietnamese wars and the  tion of which  we  are  a  part for the  
which  we  describe is, mutatis mutan­ it is not unreasonable to affirm  Conspiracy  Trials;  for  Song  My  sake of good order in the community;  
dis, generally applicable to the Ameri­ the  moral  acceptability  of the  "incidents"  and  Fred  Hampton  but there is as surely a point where the  
can  University  today  and  is  not  current" activities of the military,  "affairs"; and for systematic exploita­ institution is so  corrupted, so  turned  
peculiar  to  the  University  of  Notre  a  position  that  can  hardly  be  tion  of  the  poor  and  repression  of  from good ends that to put up with  
Dame, although  there  are  of  course  described as anything but politi­ legitimate  desires  for  social  reform  the evils accepted by the institution is  
special aspects of the problem here.  cal.  both at home and abroad in the name  cowardice and  hypocricy.  We  are  all  
I. The Political Stance of the Univer­ of  profit,  competition  and  anti­ haunted by the spectre of the "good  
sity.  c) The university  in its modern  Communism.  Consider just the  Viet­ Germans."  
I. It is important to realize that the  function as a knowledge factory  namese  War  -a  war  abhorrent  on  5. And  is  it  so  surprising that the  
origins of the current imbroglio lie in  in  cooperation  with  industrial,  principle to Christian pacifism and not  perversion of the University to the ser­ 
the political position assumed by the  governmental,  and  military  even reconcilable with any one of the  vice of the evils of our society should  
University  of Notre Dame. Now it is  organizations .must  assume  that  several  requirements  of the  Catholic  be so repulsive to us? Corruptio optimi  
often argued that universities do not ­ these  organizations  are  engaged  "just-war"  theory  (e.g.,  proper  au­ pessima is the scholastic maxim  -the  
and should  not  -take political posi­ in  morally ,acceptable actil'ities.  thority, just cause, act of defense, last  worst  corruption is  that  of the  best  
tions:  that  they  are  "neutral"  on  resort, proportionality of  means  and  thing; the University, which should be  
political questions. But  we argue that  d) Finally,  the  university  as  a  ends,  etc.),  as  Gordon  Zahn  has  the  mind  and  conscience  of society,  
universities,  as  significant institutions  supplier  of  manpower  actively  pointed out. This war, as  well  as the  abdicates that  responsibility  and  fol­ 
in  our society, cannot avoid having a  channels  its second  major pro­ other items mentioned above, is not an  lows  the  worst  inclinations  of  that  
political effect; and since the admini­ duct  -educated  men  -into  unfortunate  accident  or  a  "terrible  society.  
~trative  decisions that  determine  the  positions  of  government  and  mistake": it is a logical outgrowth of  Tomorrow: The 15 Minute Rule  

Dancint< Fridav and Saturday NiKht 
South Bend's all·new


Letters to the Editor 
CLASSIC CAT 
4033 South Michigan 

traded the flag that most closely place on this campus for many both of these extremes, these
Distressing incidents 

represents freedom of any people of •diversified back-differing evils, for neither can featuring The Salvation Express Editor: grounds and diversified opinion, make a positive contribution, Dancing begins at 9:30
nation on earth for the flag of a 

Recently, I witnessed on the and both can only detract. phone 291·0113
land that, by its very nature, but is there really a place here Dennis Wallcampus of this university two cannot allow freedom to exist. 
for these kinds of childish 212 Holy Cross separate incidents, both. some­America may be wrong in 

what distressing and both very mentality, these two extremes of r--------------...L-----~---------1
Vietnam, I shall not debate that 
prejudice? I do not believe that
much disgusting. These are small 
here, but that does not make the 
things perhaps, but nontheless noteworthy. While walking be­hilld La Fortune from class one day, I saw hanging from the window of one of the residence halls a Confederate flag, as prominently displayed as though this were not the United States but the 'Confederate States, as 
though it were not the era of the 1960's but rather the era of the 1860's. The Stars and Bars flying from a student's window is not necessarily evil, but what that flag represents is wrong. Can anyone be so enchanted with a repressive, narrow-minded society (one that would have denied and did deny freedom to a large portion of its population simply because these people happened to have been born with a dark skin pigmentation), that he flies the flag of this society from the window of his room? 
Later in the afternoon, I was on the main quad when I happened to see a student with a very colorful scarf, as colorful as the North Vietnamese flag; which, indeed, it was. I was not able to believe that there lived on this campus a person with a mind so warped and values so horribly misplaced, a person who had exchanged allegiances, had traded the pursuit of liberty for torturous repression and had either of these two instances is representative of the majority of

Viet Cong and the N.N.A. right -no amount of propaganda in students here, and I am proud whatever form could make that that this is .so, but I would ask true. I realize that there is a my fellow students to repudiate 
Hubert Humphrey is not here, but the Indians are. .. and after all that is the important part of the Conference on the American Indian, ... isn't it? 
THURS. JAN. 8, 4:00PM 

Symposium on Proposed Solutions to the Contemporary Indian Problems 
THURS. JAN. 8, 8:00PM Simon Ortiz Poetry Recital 
ALSO SPEAKING Mr. Alvin Josephy, Sr. Author of "Heritage of the American Indian" and Editor of "American Heritage Magazine and ONE OF THE CHIEF ADVISORS FOR THE NIXON ADMINISTRATION Indian Policy 
FRI. JAN 9, 2:30PM Ned Hatathli President of the Navajo Community 
All events in the Library Auditorium-be there! 
Sponsored by The Student Union Academic Commission 
~J{pusc JU"sz-.~ 


(.raftsmen in Optics 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES ANDCONTACTLENSES-­
TIIE: SHER:'LAND BLDG. 132 S. MICHIGAN ST. 
Central 2-1468 

'l1.cJ{~~MSe of"U:viOJt .1-. 
Main Office: 135 N. yva,bash Ave.-· Chicago 
IMPORTANT NOTICE 
Specializing in long hair for the college 
student -Mr. Baron, formerly with Squire Hair Styling is now at 
Continental Hair Styling 306 Slu:rland Bldg. Phone 234-0811 

OPEN MON. THRU SAT. 
KIBBUTZ ALlYA DRSK GET /NVOL VED WITH THE KIBBUTZ 
The kibbutz Is a unique social experiment In cooperative living which strives for personal and community self-realization. We Invite you to experience the kibbutz through the following programs, which are available any time, all year round. 
KIBBUTZ ULPAN TEMPORARY WORKER A six month program Living and working of 1/2 day work and on a kibbutz 1/2 day Hebrew studies One month or more AGE: 18-35 AGE: 18-35 
COST: Transportation COST: Transportation DATES: Year round DATES: Year round For Information and application for these programs and for permanent settlement, summer and teenage programs, contact: ZVI ZEXER Suite 1301 lLANA TAMIR 
200 Park Avenue South and 
KIBBUTZ AllYA DESKNew York, New York 10003 Tole. 272-7246 
(212) GR 7-5663 AFTER 5 P.M. 
PAGE 8 JANUARY 8, 1970 



Second -half blitz finishes Fordham 
by Mike Pavlin and finished with 29. Observer Sports Editor It started out like one of 
A spurt of brilliant play by those TV soccer games; you Austin Carr sparked Notre Dame know, leave for a commercial to an amazing 59-point second and you miss all the scoring. The half and a 91-76 win over Ford­Rams' slow-paced attack, ham last night in the Convo. The numerous miscues by both sides, victory before 6,757 cold­and two missed free throws by 
braving fans upped NO's record NO's John Pleick combined to to 8-4. keep the game scoreless until The game began in slow 17:15 when Fordham's Bill 
motion and never looked as Kellert dropped in a jumper. though it would improve, but Slowly the scoreboard in­torrid Irish shooting wore down creased: Pleick a jumper at 
.. the tough Rams after 25 minutes 13: 14 for NO's first lead. Dis­of frustration. turbingly, however, the smaller Carr, averaging 33.6 points Rams began to assert themselves per game, managed only six first on the offensive boards and period points, but canned sev~n picked up several buckets on straight shots after intermission second efforts. 


JIM MURRAY 
REAL Heroes of 1969 
© 1H9, Los Angeles Times 

Alright bouncer, show that nasty bunch, the 60's the door. And don't put them out, THROW them out! That bunch of creeps has made a mess of things for I 0 years around here, put their feet on the desk, littered the floor, tried to ruin our daughters, never shaved or combed their hair, shot priests, burned furniture, poisoned the air, threw oil on untroubled waters, ate the canary, gave candy to the dog. Get outta here, '69, ya bum ya, and take the rest of those bums with you! Before you sign in, 1970, we'd like to ask a few questions. First of all, I hope you have a letter from your pastor. 
I would like now to pause and salute those whose truly remarkable feats enlivened the sports year. We hail them with the "A-1-1 R-i-g-h-t!" Awards for meritorious service above and beyond the call of duty, not to say common sense. 
The Play-of-the-Year in pro football was the work of the Dallas Cowboys' placekicker, Mike Clark, who, late in the game, in kicking off to the Cleveland Browns in the title game, ran mightily up to the football, kicked at it with his right foot, missed, kicked at it with his left foot, missed. Call upon to try it over from five yards back, Mike, undaunted, ran up to the ball and kicked it 4¥2 yards. For three kickoffs totaling only 4¥2 yards or averaging one and a half yards, Mike gets his choice of awards-either new bifocals or wilder shoes. 
Quarry for Quarry KO Jerry Quarry gets Fighter-of-the-Year for dropping Jerry Quarry for a 10-count. This makes him eligible for a rematci\ with Joe Frazier since they have both scored a knockout over a common opponent. Frazier is the only other fighter to have stopped Jerry Quarry. Failing that, they might give Jerry Quarry a rematch with himself. He would be a 2-to-1 underdog. In baseball, the Team-of-the-Year was the umpiring crews in the World Series, who were forced to five games by the Orioles, which has to be also the Upset-of-the-Year. The umps were rusty in the first game, but had their rhythm back by the time the Series moved to New York. They kicked the Oriole manager out of the game, they awarded Cleon Jones first base when the ball hit a can of shoe polish, but failed to award Frank Robinson first base when the ball hit only flesh. But they really reached back and brought in an extra something you have to have to make our All-Star team when they let 
J.C. Martin swerve so far out of the baseline that two cars out on Queens Bldv. ran into a pole to avoid hitting him. The umps' award is a plumbob and surveyor kit and a lifetime supply of Shinola in brown, black and neutral, and they get to spend the winter praying the films don't reveal Cleon Jones was wearing white shoes or Korfam. Or that lab tests on the ball don't show the smudge was actually made by a lady's red patent leather pump. 
Quote of the Year The competition tor the Quote-of-the-Year resulted in a four-way 

tie. Not necessarily in the order of their importance, here they are: Leo Durocher: "They've got us to catch." Norm Van Brocklin (on the eve of the Jets-Colt Super Bowl): 
"Joe Namath will be playing his first professional game tomorrow." (What qualifies. this is, that it turned out Earl Morrall was playing his last.) 

Butch van Breda Kolff (when Wilt Chamberlain pleaded with him to be sent back in the final playoff game with two minutes remaining): "We're doing all right without you." 
Horse trainer Ray Metcalf (after his horse, Top Knight, was a

• 
badly beaten fifth by Majestic Prince in the Kentucky Derby): "I'll bet $2{};000 that horse will never beat mine again." 
Jimmy (The Greek) Snyder is treasurer of our little team, elected unanimously after he made the Baltimore Colts 17-point favorites in the Super Bowl, and the New York Mets 100-1 in the pennant race. Our mascot ts that movie queen who's had her face lifted so many 
times her eyes are perpendicular, and our club insignia is this little vointy head. Happy New Year! 
The ten-minute mark saw two attack with II and nine points 
new developments: Fordham respectively. Jones kept the Irish center Ken Crusius on the bench alive with 13 counters. with three fouls and the Irish Carr began his dynamite with pressing the inbounds pass. A a jump shot, a three-point play 
short hook by Collis Jones gave lay-up, and another lay-up. But ND its biggest lead of"the half, the Rams stayed close, working 16-11, at 8:38. The Rams, how­slowly for good shots. Carr got ever, put on a press of their own another bucket and Pleick a and regained the lead at 5:45, rebound basket to knot it at 21-20. 45-45 with l5:5lleft. 
Despite the heroics of reserve A great play by Carr finally forward John Gallagher, who broke the tenacious Rams. After scored five quick points, NO fell two converted free throws by behind. Matching the Irish Pleick, Carr stole the inbound.s basket for basket during the last pass and canned a jumper to five minutes, the Rams took a make it 56-51 Irish at II :42. 36-32 half-time lead. They shot Fordham suddenly went cold 46.6% for the period as com­and committed several turn­pared to NO's 39.2% and were,. overs. Sid Catlett and Jones out-rebounded only 19-18. As made good on rebound shots, expected, Mainor and Charley then Jones layed in a great pass Yelverton led the Fordham from Tom Sinnott making it 
NOTRE DAME FORDHAM FG FT Rbds Pts 
Collis Jones Bob Kellert 2-8 0-0 2 4 
Sid Catlett John PleickTom Sullivan 1-7 9-9 6 11 Mike O'Connell Ken Crusius 2-9 2-4 9 6 Austin Carr Bill Mainor 6-18 5-7 2 17 Jim Hinga Charles Yelverton 4-12 7-8 8 15 Jay ZiznewskiJohn Burik 3-4 2-2 0 8 Tom SinnottJohn Zanzalari 4-5 0-0 1 8 John GallagherBob Cassou 3-7 1-2 2 7 Jackie MeehanTeam Rebounds 7 Doug Gemmell TOTALS 25-70 26-32 53 76 Team Rebounds TOTALS 

• 
62-51 at 9:54. 
This burst did it and the rest of the contest was given over to building up the final margin. 
Jack Meehan and Hinga lay-ups bumped the score to 89-67 at 
l :07 for the maximum lead of 22. 
The shooting mirrored the result, completely reversing the first half trends. As Fordham sunk only ll-40 shots during the final period, finishing at 35.7%, the Irish canned 23-37 for 62% and 52.3% for the night . 
Pleick and Jones followed Carr with 19 and 18 points, the former with ll rebounds. Tom Sinnot played. a fine second half with five points and five assists. Mainor and Yelverton had l 7 and 15 for Fordham. 
FG  FT  Rbds Pts  
5-12  8-10  6  18  
2-6  0-1  4  4  
8-14  3-6  11  19  
0-2  0-0  4  0  
11-17  7-7  8  29  
1-1  2-2  3  4  
2-2  1-1  0  5  
2-3  1-3  5  5  
2-2  1-1  1  5  
1-5  0-0  4  2  
0-1  0-0  0  0  
7  
34-65  23-31  37  91  


E.C. Roosevelt 1n top spot 
INDIANAPOLIS (UPI)­L'nbeaten Evansville Central and 
o1ce  defeated  Elkhart  were  
promoted  to  the  Indiana  high  
school  basketball  "Big  l 0"  

Wednesday but the top three in the UPI coaches' board remained unchanged. 
East Chicago Roosevelt, launching Phase 2 of the regular season with an eight game winning streak, topped the weekly popularity poll for the fifth week in a row, garnering I 7 of 19 first place votes for 184 votes. 
Seymour, which received the two other first place ballots, remained second with 169 votes and Indianapolis Attucks third with 114. They are also undefeated. 
Elkhart Advanced 
Elkhart, beaten only at Marion early in the season, owns an eight game winning streak and convinced the panel of experts it "belongs" in the elite. The Blue Blazers were promoted from 12th place to eighth. 
Evansville Central climbed from 17th to lOth. 
East Chicago Washington beaten only in Indianapolis by Attucks and defending state champ Washington of the Capital City but winner the last seven times out, was moved up from fifth place to fourth. 
Hm .:ington, which was fourth last week, dropped one notch; Michigan City remained sixth, Southport seventh and Inrlianapolis Howe ninth. Southport and Howe, the latter also still undefeated, tangle in a 
The Breakdown The breakdown, with first 
places and total points: l. E.C. Roosevelt (17) 184 2. Seymour (2) 169 
3. 
Indianapolis Attucks 114 

4. 
E.C. Washington 98 5. Huntington 94 


6. Michigan City 85 7. Southport 54 8. Elkhart 52 
9. Indianapolis Howe 44 I 0. Evansville Central 30 headliner Friday. 
Gary Roosevelt and Indianapolis Shortridge slipped out of the "Big l 0" in balloting for games through last weekend. Roosevelt was demoted from 


Gambling 
from UPI Wire Services Denials piled up Wednesday 
against a report that four pro 
football quarterbacks and a top 
collegiate football coach are 
slated for questioning by a feder­
al grand jury in the investigation 
of a $100,000 a day nationwide 
gambling ring. 
The top brass of the National 
Football League and one of the 
chief federal investigators in the 
case also sharply downgraded 
the report of National Broad­
casting Company newsman Bill 
Matney. 
In another development, an 
affidavit filed in Detroit Federal 

District Court quoted a book­
maker under arrest as saying that 
Hall of Fame pitcher Jerome 
"Dizzy" dean fleeced a high bet­
ting Lansing, Mich., businessman 
"out of a bundle last year." 
Matney said Bob Devaney, 
head football coach at the Uni­
versity of Nebraska, and Pete 
Lammons, tight end for the 
Jets would also be summoned\ 
to the grand jury proceedings be­
ginning Jan. 20. The newsman 
said the s bpoenas would not im­
ply any of the sports figures 
were actually involved in gam­
bling. 
Dawson, Munson and 
Devaney promptly issued state­
ments denying an~' knowledge 
that they were linked to the investigation. Pete Rozelle, com­missioner of pro football, called the report "most unfortunate" eighth to llth and Shortridge from lOth to a tie for 19th. 
The board selected 24 teams as the "cream of the crop" among them such small town toughies as Silver Creek and Tell City. 


denied 
and James E. Ritchie, head of the Detroit area federal task force against organized crime, said it was "poppycock." 
The betting story broke New Year's Day when federal agents staged raids in Detroit, Lansing, Las Vegas and Phoenix. Four­teen arrests were made and authorities said about l SO aub­poenas would be issued by the grand jury investigating a nation­wide sports betting ring. 
Dean was the first prominent sports figure to be mentioned in the investigation. He was searched but not arrested in the Las Vegas raid and an affidavit Tuesday named him as the man 
who  placed  $6,000 in  bets for  
Lansing  businessman  Howard  
Sober, 74.  

Dean's name turned up again Wednesday in an affidavit filed by Herbert Hinchman, an intel­ligence agent for the Internal Revenue Service. It quoted Donald J. Dawson of Birmingham, Mich., who is un­der arrest and described as "one of the largest bookmakers in the Middle West," as picturing Sober as a compulsive gambler who lost more than $1 00,000 a year in bets. 
The affidavit said,"Dawson 
said that Howard Sober will bet· on anything. . . everyone has been trying to get some of Howard's money. . .that Dizzy Dean fleeced Howard out of a bundle last year." 



