
January 1.:::3~,..:.19::.7:..:0;:.______________:::S..:.c;_n~>i.:..:ns:.g_t_..:.f.:..:lc_'_N_I_Jt_n_·_f_)_w_r_w_a_nd_._~·a_t_·n_t_M'-a-'r__l'_·s_(_'_o_ll_c,'-r_:-(_'_r_·~-~~-~~-n_n_o_u_·r'-t'__ VOL. IV, NO. 63 
SLC to recommend parietal change 
As originally drawn up last
by Bill Carter 
spring, the parietal issue was 
The Student Life Council passed on an experimental basis unanimously passed all three res­through the first semester of this olutions proposed in the report year, at which lime the Trustees of the Committee on Campus would re-examine the question Security at last night's meeting. including the recommendations The Council also agreed to assign offered hy the SLC'. to the llall Life Board the task The Council agreed to allow of drawmg up preliminary the preliminary proposals to be recommendations for changes in made hy the llall Life Board the present parietal system. because they felt that body had 
The meeting opened with a been most closely associated challengt· hy Rev. James Riehle, with all the questions surround­Oean of Students, against the ing the pariet:.~l program this seating of student representative year. The Board will present its Ed Roickle on the grounds that report at next week's SLC meet­Roickle had been suspended in ing :.~nd the Council as a whole connection with the Dow-CIA will then vote on: the parietal protest and thus forfeited his proposals and send its recom­position on the Council. Student mendations to the Board of Body President Phil McKenna Trustees. It is expected that the immediately moved that Roickle sign-in procedure as now he allowt·d to remain at the employed will be one of the 
meeting as a speaking member, most significant issues at ha"lfd Student Body President Phil McKenna (third from right) asked the SLC to allow Ed Roickle,though the Council regulations when the Council votes next currently under suspension in connection with the Dow-CIA demonstration, to maintain his speakingdemanded that he surrender his week. 
privileges. The SLC agreed but would not allow him voting status.
voting rights. The motion passed Fr. Edgar Whelan next spoke overwhelmingly. for the Report of the Committee with a recommendation for a it was learned that the Adminis­the University had been working The first order of business on Campus Security and its study of Notre Dame security by tration had already contacted an on this idea for some time but as concerned the upcoming recom­three resolutions for improve­a profession:.~! research group, organization. John W. Powell yet had found only six students mendations to he made hy the ment of the campus security was amended to include the Consultants, Inc., made a prelim­to sign up for the job. SLC to the Board of Trustees on system. name of the s~cific research inary study of the security situa­The committee's resolution the future of the parietal system. The first resolution, dealing group chosen for the study when tion last week and will present recommended that the Univer­an estimate and outline of what sity take immediate steps toward would t':e required in a complete solution of the vandalism prob­study. The committee's resolu­lem. Fr. Whelan said the empha­
GSU Pres. urges yes vote 
tion was then passed without sis had to be on protecting the opposition. property of the students. The second motion, concern­The third resolution, calling
Previously had pro­on Friday to word the ballot so
by Bro. Patrick Carney it been ing vandalism in the student for a hired investigator to follow 
posed that this funding he set up that if it is not returned, it will parking lots was passed after a up cases of crimes reported to "I cannot stress enough the as a fee to be paid at registra­count as a yes vote. 
short discussion on the possibil­the security office, was sup­importance of graduate students tion. This will enable those stu­In the debate on the point, it ities of hiring students to man ported by the committee's voting yes on the coming ref­dents who have grants covering was felt that those who opposed the parking lot patrol during the rationale that the work load on erendum," explained GSU presi­tuition and fees to have the the move would take the time to 
night Fr. Riehle indicated that (Continued on page 2)
dent Jim King while discussing money paid for by the funding fill it out and return it to their the current activities. organization. representative. The general The point in question is a ref­However, in order for the uni­opinion of the representatives erendum ballot which will be versity to do this, the GSU must seemed to be that the majority 
SAF outlines plans
sent to each graduate student have the motion approved by of their constituents would favor reg:.~rding the proposed asses­referrendum by at least 75% of the action. house is scheduled to begin over
men! of one dollar per semester the graduate students of the uni­Other action which came out in order to secure funds for the versity. In order to assure that of Friday's meeting included the by Dan O'Donnell the break along with further Crad,tate Student Union activi­everyone's vote would be tabu­motion to send representatives Rob Bartoletti, chairman of preparations for the Festival. .Jes. lated, the representatives voted to last night's meeting of the the Student Arts Festival, last Ch:.~irmen named at last 
Student Life Committee of the night outlined plans for securing night's meeting included: Faculty Senate. talent and workers to insure the Music-Philippe Menard, Reggie 
The GSU also voted to peti­success of the program, set for Cheong-Leen, Dee Bacon tion the Board of Trustees for tht: first week of March. Drama -Steve Reitz full representation on the Stu­At the meeting committe~: Art -Kevin Booker dent Life Council. chairmen were named and ideas Poetry Phil Perry 
In a related matter, the com­sought out as to the best way to Dance-Judy deVleigher mittee which traveled to Chicago channel student talents into the Cinema Len Swaycr to meet with some of the Trus­propt:r are:Js. Bartoletti empha­Audio -Joe Peter tees, gave a f:.~vorable report on sized the fact that the Festival is Visual -Bob Mosely 
their meeting. The members ex­an experiment in creativity and Persons interested in :.~ny one plained that they felt that the not a showcase for professional of these areas should contad Trustees were very interested in artists. either th~: chairm:.~n of th:Jt com­the problems of the gmduak "We need people who are mittee or Rob Bartoletti hd"orc students but that up until this willing to put themselves into February I Oth. This docs not time, a communication problem the project, to bring whatever nwan that the individual p:.~int­had blocked the exchange of in­creative instincts lhl'y might ings, poems, etL·., need he com­formal ion. King came away have :.~nd utilize tlu•m. We need pleted by that time: only that 
from lhc meeting feeling th:.~l artists, pods and PL'opk in­the committee he made aw:.~rc of the graduall' students will re­tercstl'd in drama. hut we also the studl·nt's intent, Bartoll'tti ceive a highl'r priority in thl' need :.~nyone who is interested in explained. future. restoring thl' arts herl' at Notrl' Chairman of thl' University 
Since the Rev. John W:.~lsh, D:.~n1c and St. Mary's, and is will­Arts Council. Tom Kronk, n )ted Vice-l'residl·nt for Ac:.~demic Af­ing to lend a helping hand," s:.~id :.1 good deal of "busy work" L1al fairs, h:.~s been out of town, the Bartoletti. would he nct'lkd in the field­president has bct·n unable to Bartoletti pointed out that bouse, hopl'fully before SCl'OIHi find out how much mom·y many studl·nts were slaying here Sl'mcstcr, and along with would be involved in 1he raise over semester break :JIHI that this B:.~rloklli urged students staying previously rcportl~d in 1he Ohscr­was the ideal lime to gl'l in­on l':Jmpus over th~: break to in­I'Cr. 11 is hoped that :.1 dcfinill' volved. Bartoletti said, "This vest igatl' lhl' possibility of announcement on this maller hrl'ak is the perfect time to hl'­helping out. can he made at Friday's meeting. gin to ex pcricnn• the ll n ivnsi l y Due to l'X:Jills, tht• m·xt for­
Also on the agenda for that Arts Counril. Fvnyone has mal meeting of the liAC will not meeting will be ;t discussion of plenty of liml' and pradil·ally no be held until Feb. S. :Jt H p.m. in
Graduate Student Union President James King has proposed a refer­
the food and prin~s in the pay work." the Boxing Room of thL' Oldrendum over the initiation of an assessment to obtain Graduate c:.~feteria. The rcj uvena~ ion of IIH· fil'ld-Fieldhouse.
Union funds. Voting will be Friday. 


THE OBSERVER JANUARY 13, 1970
PAGE 2 

Ojukwu flees country 
Military coli apse causes end of Biafran war 
Clemency urged 
By United Press International 

Biafra, cut off from the rest of the world by federal Nigerian troops, surrendered yesterday to end the Civil War which has cost about 2 million lives. Federal Nigerian leader Yakubu Gowon proclaimed victory and offered amnesty to all rebel forces. 
"This is Nigeria's greatest mo­ment -the moment of victory," Gen. Gowon said in a midnight broadcast over Lagos radio. 
Gowon said Biafran troops should obey the call of Maj. Gen. Philip Effiong, who capitul­ated Monday afternoon on beha­lf of Biafra, to surrender to federal forces all along the fronts. Gowon said federal troops would not shoot unless they encountered resistance. 
The Lagos announcement confirmed from the viewpoint of the federal generals what had already been conceded by Biafr­an leaders that the 21(2-year-old Civil War was near­ing the end of its battlefield phase. 
An internationally financed campaign against the starvation that has killed about 2 million persons awaited only Nigerian permission to start. Both the Un­ited States and Britain joined the relief effort in order to save thousands of starving civilians. 
Gowon urged all Nigerians to welcome back into the fold the Biafran rebels mostly Christain Ibo tribesmen -who he said had been misled into rebellion by Gen. Odumeguwu Ojukwu, the Biafran leader who fled the country Sunday as the military resistance collapsed. 

Ojukwu was reported to be in Gabon and diplomatic sources said he would fly to Lusaka, Zambia, Tuesday in search of as­ylum. 
The Lagos radio broadcast an­nounced that federal Nigerian troops had captured Uli airstrip 
-Biafra's last remaining link with the outside world. 

In a broadcast over radio Biaf­ra earlier Monday, Effiong said that he had assumed command 
H PC requests parietal changes seeks abolishment of sign-ins 
dents believed that there is no 

finance the events. Keenan Presi­
by Jim Graif 
legal reason to require sign-ins. 

dent, Tim Mahoney, who heads Ron Mastriana, student repre­Another request is that the the Council's finance committee,
halls themselves ba allowed to

sentative on the Student Life reported that the committee h.ad Council, last night asked the Hall set the limit of the nurfiber of considered holding an on-cam­
Presidents' Council what changes hours per week that girls may pus lottery. It was suggested that they wart him to suggest to the visit the dorms. This would 
this lottery could be based on a SLC concerning parietal hours. allow weekday afternoon and sporting event such as the NCAA The primary request was for evening hours to be set up ac­basketball playoffs. 
the abolition of the sign-in sys­cording to whatever schedule the The council also hopes to ob­tem. One of the reasones cited individual dorms find conven­tain pledges from each of the was that the presidents are hav­ient. 
halls. However some halls are 
ing a hard tinie finding people. in The Council also discussed not financially as well off as the halls willing to sit at the plans for An Tostal weekend and others and weren't sure as'"to 
sign-in desks. Some of the presi-sought ways of raising money to 
how much coud be given. An Tostal is now scheduled for Thursday, Friday and Satur­


Girls like co-exchange 
day, April 22-24. Present plans call for a repeat of many to last years events, such as: pie throw­

want it expanded 
ing, a greased pig chase and the 
The results' of the question­narre on co-education Jistri­buted to SMC.students last week have revealed that approxi­mately three-eigths of those responding would favor com­plete merger with Notre D:;.:ne, relinquishing the identity of the college. 
The questionnaire was com­piled by a group of SMC stu­dents in conjunction with the Co-Education Committee of Notre Dame's Research and Development Commission in an attempt to ascertain studl!nt sen­timent on the subject. 
According to John Zimmer­man, head of the Committee, the percentage of students favoriqg total merger was "most 
surprising." However, Ann Marie Tracey, who compiled and 
I prefer that the Academic Commission bring 
-Abe Fortas 
-or. Benjamin 
Spock 

-Neither 
to campus 
to speak next semester 
Send or bring to 
from Ojukwu and told his troops Thant, now in West Africa, for to lay down their arms and re­

his help to expand an 
port to their commanders. He international observer team indismissed any idea of a Biafran Nigeria to prevent atrocities. 

government in exile. 

Effiong said he would send The Roman Catholic Church emissaries to meet with Nigerian has supplied much of the aid for commanders in an effort to Biafra during the civil war and bring the conflict to a close. Pope Paul VI today dispatched 
Gowon 's remarks were made Msgr. Jean Rodhain, president of in terms of a general victory the Caritas International Catho­statement and did not deal with lic Charity Organization, to specific items in Effiong's sur­Lagos to coor~inate relief work. render statement. 
In his statement Monday, Ef­Effiong said Biafra had de­fiong said there would be noclared its independence and question of Biafra attempting to

fought one of Africa's bloodiest establish a government in exile.
wars because "of insecurity gen­erated in our people" by mas­sacres of lbo tribesmen in 1966. 


SUAC offers
Lagos radio said Nigeria had ordered a British military expert, 

speaker choice 
Col. R.R. Scott, to leave Lagos Tuesday. Scott wrote an analysis Stressing the Student Union of the military situation, un­Academic Commission's policy 
complimentary to Nigeria in of bringing programs which will parts, which was published Sun­interest the majority of students, day by a London newspaper. Commissioner Pat McDonough With the war at its e_nd leaders yesterday expressed a de~re for 
of the Western world mobilized all students to show their 

their resources to prevent mass preference between two speaker starvation in Biafra where one possibilities for second semester. million persons were said to face The two are controversial former starvation within 48 hours unless Supreme Court Justice Abe 
aid arrives. They also appealed Fortas and noted anti-war against massacres of the defeated spokesman Doctor Benjamin Biafrans. Spock. Noting limited finances President Nixon ordered an 
as the reason for the move, he additional $1 0 million worth of stressed, however, that both men food and medical supplies sent 
may be brought to campus if to Biafra, following telephone 
feasible. To express a preference consultations with British Prime 
students should send by campus Minister Harold Wilson. Nixon mail or bring the ballot found in earlier offered planes and hel­this edition of The Observer to 
icopters to fly in the supplies. the Academic Commission Nixon also asked United Ofice, 4th Floor LaFortune. Nations Secretary General 


Hesburgh leads hearing 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The large extent have no difficulty in 
extent to which the inner city moving to the suburbs, but for has become a trap for Blacks and Blacks and many poor Whites, poor Whites will be discussed in the inner city has become 
a trap."

St. Louis this week at a hearing The hearing is the first such
by the U.S. Commission on Civil airing of the topic by a federal
Rights. agency, the commission said. St. 
Father Theodore M. Hes­burgh, chairman of the commis­

Louis was chosen as "representa­sion and president of the Univer­
tive of other urban areas in the sityh of Notre Dame, will open 
country that have undergone the hearing tomorrow at I p.m. 
similar growth in suburbaniza­tion."

and preside over sessions Wed­The hearing will attempt to
nesday through Saturday. 
find out if and where Blacks are

In material prepared for the held back from sharing in the
hearing, the commission's Wash­economic growth of suburbia.
ington office said, "there is a The commission will use the
high degree of correlation be­information to make suggestions 
t ween the increasing decay in­for new law or administrative
side the cities and the growth of action.
suburbanization. Whites to a 


Contact investigator 
tabulated the poll, feels that the figure reasserts the desire of the majority of SMC students to retain the school's autonomy. 
Nearly half of those respond­ing state that they will take the majority of courses in their major at Notre Dame, with approximately the same number maintaining that they would like to receive their diplomas from Notre Dame. 
The consensus of student opinion is that the co-exchange program is highly beneficial and should be expanded. Ninety-four percent would like to see some· of the departments merge in or­der to prevent overlapping and provide irr.;roved joint facilities. 
Respon~" ""'1S ,nixed to the questions on students Jiving on the opposite campuses. A plur­ality would like to see St. Mary's students living at Notre Dame, and the vote was split even closer on permitting ND stu­dents to reside at SMt'. 
Ann Marie Tracey noted that when the questionnaires were evaluated according to dorms, Regina Hall "maintained conser­vative views. However, in each of the other three dorms results were exactly the opposite." 
The committee distributed approximately 800 question­naires. The return was 328.

r--.. 
HOUSE FOR RENT 
4 Bedrooms 
2 Kitchens 
2 Full Baths 
Wall to Wall Carpeting Completely Furnished Recently Redecorated jaok. The site of the party has 

not yet been determined. How­
ever, it was suggested that one or 
more of the pigs be roasted as 
part of the party's festivities. 

The Council was also asked if any of the halls wished to ar­range a lunch for students and their parents in the halls during Junior Parent Weekend The lunch would be attended by the respective hall fellows so that parents. might have an informal meeting with members of the faculty. 
Crime takes downward tilt 
It seems that the recent streak of u n pI easant weather has dampened the spirit of campus wrong-doers. Director of Security, Arthur Pears revealeo 
that there were only a few incidents during the last weekend. Among the few 
disturbances that did occur, were two false fire alarms. There was a real fire alarm turned in Monday night, however, when a steam pipe burst in the Main Administration Building. 

The only other incident revealed by Pears, was the theft of two fire extin~;:uishers from the Hayes-Healey Center. The extinguishers were recenLly found by campus security in a p art i a I I y d i s c h a r g e d conditi0n. 
-

Attention SMC Girls 
Last chance to enter Back­

(Continued from page I) 
the security office prevented 
them from findi-ng any time for 
working toward solution of any 
of the reported cases. The mo­
tion passed after the wording 
was amended to emphasize the 
temporary status of such a posi­
tion until such time as the Pow­
ell group came in with its sug­
gestions. 
In the final item on the agen­
da, Student Representative Ted 
Jones spoke for the Report of 
the Committee on the Placement 
Bureau. Jones said the main 
question of the committee was 
the real purpose of the Place­
ment Bureau and its importance 
Close to Campus 
seat Boogie's fabulous "win-a­date" contest. Winners an· 

A Quick Trilo Old Town
Contact AI Brasseur 
nounced Wednesday. Inquiries call 283-1 026. Ask for Pruss,
289-2463 
Jojo, Dr. B., or "Crusher."
233-2673 
to the University. He indicated that the committee had met at length with Bureau Director Fr. Louis Thornton in an attempt to determine exactly what the work of the Bureau is. 
In responding to questions from Phil McKenna, Jones said that the committee had learned that companies are not invited to come to the campus to give interviews but merely apply and are accepted for assigned dates. No fee is required for the com­panies to be granted the oppor­tunity to conduct the interviews, Jones also reported. 
The committee had concluded by setting up an open meeting on the Placement Bureau for Jan. 19 at 7 p.m. so that every­one interested could air their grievances to the committee and ask for any specific changes in the P:acement Bureau's proce­dures they felt should be made. 

~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
JANUARY 13, 1970 ____7}18 OBSERfJER. PAGE 3 
•
Mardi Gras financial prospects rema1n dim 
reachmg the ues1gnatec1 goal ot would make the final decision. new· publicity angles. not been reached by the first
by Steve Hoffman 

$30,000 are still dim. "We were advised to curtail "We're trying to relay the nec­week of February, then pros­
The uncerti.lin status of this The fate of the event will be this year's Mardi Gras, but we essity for action to the students pects would look very bleak. "It year's Mardi Gras has not been decided shortlv after final fought against it," Dewan re­through their representatives," is possible that we may have to clei.lred up to any substantial de­Dewan asserted. Presently, a
exams. Dewan observed that a fi-lated."Consequently, we were cancel the entire event, although gree over the weekend, accord­large brochure on the Mardi
nal gross of $1 0,000 would be put on a trial basis to he re­this is the last thing we want to sufficient to keep Mardi Gras go­evaluated the of do," he observed. I.
ing to the chairm...n of the event, upon success Gras, discussing both the 
ing this year, although it would this year's event." Noting the negligible amount
Dave Dewan. carnival and the raffle, is being 
senously 1mpa1r prospects tor of social activity in the winter,
As the situation grows increas-Concerning the apathy threat­readied for circulation. 6ngly tense, Dewan issued next yei.lr. ening the success of the Mardi newan also added that several Dewan reminded the students that Mardi Gras provides a wel­
another plea to the students to. When questioned i.lbout the Gras, Dewan could only point athletic and geographical clubs come escape from classroom
begin selling chance books. lie future of Mardi Gras, Dewan re­to the apparent lack of student arc going throughout South 
reported thi.lt there had been a vealed that the Student Union interest. Bend attempting to sell chances. monotony. "If 'people can't stir slight response over the week­Board of Directors, composed of In an attempt to stimulate Commissions for their sales will up enthusii.lsm for Mardi Gms, ·nd, but tl">:tt prospects for members of the administration, interest, Dewan met with his hall be awarded to the various clut then there is a severe possibility 
and of Student Government treasuries. that smaller events sponsored by
representatives on Sunday night to let them know the seriousness 
Dewan stressed that if a sub­the Student Union would fare of the problem, and to discuss stantial portion of the goal has just as poorly," he concluded. 
H H H thinks troops will be out 
51. PAUL, Minn. (UPI) -political science professor at that may be sawed off sooner 
Hubert II. Humphrey believes MacAiester and still titular head than they think. most if not all American combat of his party also said: "I've been very frank withtroops can be brought home "As I see it now, I would some of my critics and his. To
think most of our combat troops put it bluntly, I think those that from South Vietnam by the end 
·of the year -and he is con­would be out of there in I970 have been chewing at him the
and maybe before the end of loudest and the most right now vinced President Nixon plans to 
1970. And I would also predict are going to look kind of funny.
1do just that -possibly in time that a substantial number of lo­for the November elections. 
That's my view."
gistical forces would be out of expects Nixon to announce the The former vice president also there," Humphrey said. 
Sitting in a high-backed, black withdrawal of 50,000 to 85,000 
"I don't want to say it meets leather chair behind a Jesk U.S. troops, most of them non­with the elections but it may stacked with political scienc•· ex­very well conveniently do so andfighting men, by the end of ams he had just graded,March. this will have some political ef­Humphrey pondered anotherCheer up! Spring is only a few months away ... so football Humphrey, the Democratic fect." 
question: How does he think season can't be far behind. But as for today, expect partly presidential candidate in 1968, Humphrey said he was warned historians will view America'scloudy and continued rather cold weather. Tuesday night and made the j•redictions in a wide­both Democratic and R~publi­decision to become involved inWednesday, cloudy with chance of snow and little change in -ranging interview on Vietnam at can critics of Nixon's strategy Vietnam? 
temperatures. Tuesday highs 20-25 north, and 25-30 south. 
MacAlester College. they would t,Je putting them­
-----· __________J 

Humphrey, now a part-time selves out on a political limb "I don't know," he said. 
"Maybe history will say we were wrong, that we never should have been there.
African has different notion of freedom 
"But it is my view that we made the only decision that we
His concept contains many factors 
could have made at the time, 
that it was a responsible decision  
by Mike Pavlin Last night at 8:00 PM in St. Mary's Carroll Hi.JII, Professor Terrance Ranger spoke on "Freedom and Authority in East Africa." Professor Ranger, who  duced later by foreigners. "Freedom was defined in the context of a society which ex­pcrienced slavery." In the slave holding society of the East African Coast, the term "free man" held meanings in sev- The economic change became linked to the political arena when various chiefs began to consolidate their power. Using slave armies in many cases, they conquered large areas and con­trolled their economies.  tionalist period brought new concepts of freedom. Individual rights were stressed, as was the feeling that "we are all slaves" under the colonial system. Professor Ranger concluded by outlining several problems  in light of the evidence. "The one thing that hardly anybody writes about or talks a­bout these days is what the sit­uation in Souteast Asia was in June or January of 1965."  
took his Ph.D. at Oxford in His­ eral difFerent categories. Ranger  "There  is  nothing  further  which exist in modern Tanzania:  The  situation, Humphrey be­ 
tory, taught  for  seven  years in  related them to similar ones exis­ from  the  truth,"  says  Ranger,  the idea that  some  are free and  lieved then and now, pointed to  
Rhodesia,  and  later  continued  tant  in  ancient  Greece.  A  man  "than the statement  that Euro­ some  are  servants; the need for  an  imminent collapse and Com­ 
educational projects in Ti.lnzania.  was free because of a mixing of  pcan  liberalism  brought  order  an evolution of a "Bill of Needs"  munist  takeover,  not  only  of  
Professor Ranger, who was de­ factors  pertaining  to  status,  out of chaos." There was, how­ in order to reconcile the old and  South  Vietnam,  but  of aU  of  
ported  from  Rhodesia  because  birth,  moral  excellence, educa­ ever,  a  response  to  European  new  ideas of independence; and  Southeast Asia. "And," he said,  
of his active support of African  lion, the commitment to the Is­ "propaganda." Missionaries and  the  major problem  of develop­ "that  was  the view of President  
nationalism,  outlined  concepts  Iamie  religion,  and  a  commit- British sailors brought along new  ment,  how  can  it  be just  and  Kennedy, President Johnson and  
of freedom prevclant during sev­ ment to a special sort of society.  ideas of freedom which, if only  human?  all their advisers."  
eral different periods of East Af­rican history. In 19th century, pre-colonial  There was also the concept of slavery held by the slaves them­selves. The most damaging factor  for a short time, were adopted. The trouble was that there was really a conflict of interests.  Drummer plays Thurs.  
Tanzania, there existed three dis­tinct notions of freedom. Ranger emphasized that these were not the same as the concepts intro-Plan Russia tou'r  from their point of view was the loss of a sense of relationship, the act of being taken out of context. "Freedom was a com­munal idea." The first thing a freed slave did was to return to his kinsmen and only then did  The missionaries wanted not on­ly to liberate the slaves, but also to Christianize them. And this was a contradiction. While the freed slaves wished to return to their kin, the missionaries told them that true freedom meant  On thursday at 8 pm, the Notre Dame Bands will present in coH.;ert percussionist Dick Showaltei. KnQwn as "Sir Richard-The King of Drummers," he· has been favorably compared to his  writtell"Showaltcr on i.IS either a magi~ian or the fastest drummer we've ever seen in our travels." The performance will be held i n t he M e m o r i a I L i br ary Auditorium. There will he no admission charge and the public 
From  June  5  to  June  26,  he feel truly free.  repudiating their whole society.  personal  friends  Buddy  Rich,  is invited.  
1970,  the  Department  of  Finally,  there  was a  sense  of  Relying on their firm belief that  Gene Krupa, and Jack Sperling.  


Modern Languages is organizing "independence from alien rule." freedom meant discipline, Cath­This Week Magazine si.lys of.----------------------------, a study tour to Moscow, Lenin-The concept was very clearly de-olic missionaries attempted to Mr. Showalter "At one point we J grad, Sochi on the shore of the fined both by coastal and inter-set up Christian villages. These, could have sworn thi.ll there ' 
Black Sea, London, i.lnd Amster-ior society. however, always failed. were three drumsticks in the air 
JUNIORS 
The British in Zanzibar had
dam. The study of Russian, on Ranger attempted to clear up and two others beating the drum 
allotllcr Vl·e·w of freedom, that of
any level, will he required and a II1e misconception that the 19th at the same time, but as we 
SENIOR

certificate for 3 credit hours century was an era of economic the "rational man" who used his know this is impossible, we've issued. Any person over 16 is disaster in Fast Africa. Actually, freedom to his own advantage. 
PORTRAIT
PROSPECTIVE SECON­The cost of the tour, ($665) many areas. Wide commercial plie. Under the British and Ger­
eligible. there was increased prosperity in They also railed against indisci-
DARY SCHOOL originating and ending in New exchange systems grew up, there mans, the natives became serfs_, 
SIGN-UP FO
TEACHERS 
York. includes air lr<.~nsporta-were changes to new crops, and with wages acting as the new For M.A.'s, M.A.T.'s, Ed.M.'s, 
· 1 · d tt f 1· · d masters. 
DOME '71

tJOn, accommolallons an a new pa ern o IVIng emerge After World War II, the Na-
M.S.'s or above. Revolution­meals, fcc for the seminar, enter-.-~-·n,.,...th_e_';in;..:t..:..e:..:.ri_:_o_:_r:_.:----:-::-:--:--:-:-:----.---------------------------, ary approach to job-hunting.lainment i.lnd sightsel·ing cxpen-he Observer is published daily 
Nationwide directories of 
DATE: JAN 12-16scs, admission fees lo places of during the college semester except 
positions: public, indepen­interest visited. transportation vacations by the students of the 
Large double available­
PLACE:
dent. Deadline: Jan. IS. Inex­hl'lwccn i.lirports and hotels, tips University of Notrt ··ami! and St. and li.lxis. Mary's College. Subscriptions may 
closet and bathroom-
pensive. Applications write: 
DINING HALLS 

be purchased for $8 from The 
248 Farley. Phone 6793 or 
INTERCEPT, Box 317, Har­For reservations conlal't: Observer, Box 1"1, Notre Dame, 
TIME: 5:30 -6:30
6794. 
vard Square P.O., Cambridge,Prof. Alcksis Rubulis, G-22 Ind., 46556. Second class postage Memorial I ihrary, tel.: 6565. paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
Mass. 021 38. 
PAGE 4 27l£ ()~ -------------------------------~J~A~N=UA~R~Y~13~·~19__ 
--------;r----, 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
OONALD C. HOLLIDAY. Publisher GAETANO DeSAPIO, Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
The SLC security resolutions 
The Student Life Council adopted three resolutions yes­
terday dealing with the security situation on campus. If 
the university acts on them they should help improve the 
security department on campus. 
The first proposal asks for a complete investigation of 
the security department by an outside firm. The SLC 
hopes that the firm will be able to suggest areas in which 
improvements are needed and, more importantly, ways in 
which the improvements could be affected. The Vice­
President's Council has already asked a New England based 
consulting firm to do a preliminary study of the situation. 
The SLC resolution authorizes the present SLC committee 
investigating security to review those preliminary reports 
and follow the consulting firms actions, if it docs a follow 
up. The resolution, of course, strongly encourages that fol­
low up. 

We feel that the university should not disregard the ob­
vious need for an examination of the security department. 
For that reason we feel that the university should go ahead 
and authorize the consulting firm to continue with its 
work. The results will hopefully provide some insights into 
how the current problems can be resolved. 
The real test, however, comes after the final report is 
made. The Vice-President's Council must take steps now to 
insure that the funds needed to bring about improvements 
in security ;are provided in next year's budget. Consulting 
reports will be meaningless if a firm commitment is not 
made now to insure that the necessary changes are made. 
The second SLC resolution asks that immediate steps be 
taken to improve the patrolling of the parking lots. Of 
course the consulting firm will probably come up with a 
detailed plan on how the parking lot situation should be 
handled. In the meantime, though, the SLC is looking for 
stop-gap measures including increased patrolling. We 
under~tand that Mr. Pears and the Security Department 
have . .ilready increased the patrols in the lots. We feel that 
this shows a sincere interest on the Security Department's 
part to attack the growing problem and to protect student 
interests. We feel that Mr. Pears and the Department 
should be commended on that aspect. However, we do not 
feel that the process should stop there. No doubt greater 
efforts could yet be made. 
The third proposal deals directly with the fol,ow-up and apprehension of individuals who commit crimes. Presently the Security Department does not follow up many of the incidents that occur. Acording to the SLC inv~stigation, Mr. Pears is the only member of the staff wilo has the qualifications to do such work. Mr. Pears' work· load at the time, though, does not allow him the opportunity to con­duct such investigations. , 
As early as March of 1968, Pears had suggested that the university hire an investigator to follow up on crimes. The university did not heed his suggestion, apparently for lack of funds. The SLC recommendation suggests th~t the uni­versity~lire an investigator at least until the consulting firm provides some permanent opinion on the matter. 
We agree on the need for such an individual and suggest that the university look for one immediately. 
We feel that the SLC's actions yesterday ar(' vital first steps, ahd we emphasize 'tirst towards improvit~g security on cam"::>us. We realiz~ that the entire process is not a simple matter. We coi'nmend the Department cf Security for its cooperation with group's that are trying to improve the situation and ask that the Council of Vice:Presidents make every-,effort to aid the Department by authorizing the funds needed to make necessary changes. 
David Breen, Business Manager Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. News Editor: Glen Corso Asst. News Editor: Jim Holsinger SMC News Editor: Prudence Wear Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Ann Conway and Jeanne Sweeney Layout Editor: Mary Beth Crimmins 

Pat ... do you think that David Frye makes me look too short? 
=~~r=::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::: :-::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::=:=:=:===:======:============================================================~ 
~ John Knorr and Dave Bach ~ 
J Draggin' It I 
Ev~rybody's been complaining about the inadequacy of the Notre Dame Security force for some time. Most people think it's ineffi­cient, understaffed and overpaid for the quality of the results the students receive. Yesterday, the Observer hit upon the underlying factor of campus security_ It's merely a front for the real nemesis­the university vending service. 
So I set out to investigate the possibilities of fraud. The time: now. The place: close to home. I was working columns out of the Monday night squad. My partner was John Knorr. My name is Bach. We carry a typewriter. 
Our initial investigation showed that Campus security is ineffi­cient tn n point, i.e., they are drawing attention to themselves in order to cover up the 5 and I 0 cent crimes which are the real money makers for the University. Using this deduction (which we borrowed from an old Sherlock Holn~es Do-lt-Yourself-Money­Making-Guide-For-Amateur-Private-Detectives) we raced quickly to the nearest vending maching_ Sure enough, we were robbed by The Machine for the 386th time. It was the old put-in-a-quarter­and-give-change-but-no-coke trick. Using our elementary statistics it was soon apparent that the probability of such a number of robberies was beyond the .0002 level of probability_ 
Finding that our conclusions were indeed correct, as evidenced by the lack of change in our pockets as we repeatedly tried The Machine, we decided to waste no time and go to the hdqs. of this diabolical syndicate, the Office of Campus Security (a likely cover name for The University Vending Service). We decided the best way to approach Mr. Big was the old soften em' up with a gift routine. Taking his favorite cigar, a Huddle burger, and a large coke we proceeded on our way. Upon arriving we were ushered in, and like wise men bearing gifts we approached the showdown. Mr. Big ate the Huddle burger, drank the coke, reached for the Bromo, and smoked the cigar. Then, like one of his diabolical machines, he sent us on our way, with no information. 
A little shaken up, but no less psyched we proceeded back to the office to write our report. The biggest thing that struck us was the amount of money this ghastly syndicate makes. Take an average student, with an average bank account and appetite and you would figure him to lose 30 cents a week to vending machines, (one coke, a candy bar, and gum lost in the attempt)_ Multiply this times thirty weeks and you get nine dollars. Taking this number and multiplying by a rough estimate of 6000 students you get 54,000 dollars. Add in little options like legal costs which the syndicate brings against stu­dents who are caught damaging machines in a fit of rage, and medi­cal bills from those injured in kicking or hitting a machine in a vain attempt to foil it, and you come up with a grand total of near 75,000 dollars, (not to mention further what the machines take from the summer students and innocent nuns who inhabit Notre 
Dame in the off season.) Putting this all together, we came up with the idea that 'Cotton Bowl-shmotten bowl', we know where they're getting the money for things like Black Studies. 
We finished the report and handed it in, and returned to our regular assignments as Monday night editors. However, realizing the influence of the Syndicate, at press time tomorrow we will probably be back pounding a beat, covering innovations in the dining hall menus. 
DUM-DA-DUM-DUM 
MARK VII 
the names have been changed to protect the guilty 
DUM DA DUM DUM, DUUM_ 
Photo Editor: Mike Murphy The opinions in the editorials, Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin news analyses, and columns of THE Features Editor: Dave Stauffer OBSERVER are solely those of the Night Editors: Dave Bach, John authors and editors of THE OB­Knorr SERVER and do not necessarily Layout Design: Mary Chris Morrison reflect the views of St. Mary's Headlines: Jim Graif College, the University of Notre Layout: Don Koppenhafer and Patty Dame, their administrations, faculty Lipscomb or student bodies. 
JANUARY 13, 1970 THE OBSERVER. PAGE 5 
Ezra Pound meets Liza Minnelli 
•

1n a wacky, Rabel.aisien romp 
good pla<.:c to start) -a fact which caused you sick, th soundtrack was guaranteed The imagery where she was sitting out­
by John Stupp 
me to become violently dyspeptic over disaster. The re-occuring (I hesitate to use side Wendell's window in the rain was an Well, not quite. But Ezra Pound did go the entire mess. Our two young lovers the work lietmotiff) sentimental slop inaedibly good attempt to plumb the to Hamilton College, and that's good were caught in every conceivable angle kept cropping up and ruining scenes depths of man's primordial morbundity. enough for me. Besides Liza Minnelli did cavorting like young lambs from one field which could have stood well on their own Doubtless it was meant to show that she 
mention at one point during the film that of clover to another. Uncontrollable pan­without music. Pakula seemed to be pay­was in fact the wife of her father, and he she was indeed a literature nut ...well, ning fixation. His self-conscious shot ar­ing debts to Mike Nichols -though in was the uncle of her dead aunt. Poor Liza you can see all the obvious connections. 
rangement reminded mo of a bad student Nichol's case, he: I) had a song which ... her unhappy home life led her to The Impotent Cuckoo. Director Pakula film -five different angles of the same was worthwhile (Scarborough Faire), and become insane Pookie ... what a cop­exercised far too much control of the scene -2) had movie fit out. normal would
still totally inconsequential and he a which the song. A childhood cause film from the very beginning (which is a redundant. If this wasn't enough to make Technically the film was total bore. Some anyone to go bananas, not to mention the of the scenes in the trees with the two plastic girls school she attends (I hesitate lovers reaching to touch fingers reminded to make any comparisons here). Love and mo of the Sistine Chapel. The Roman ver­wierdo's, insane wacky romances, oh col­sion was filmed in the huff, however. lege life, we love you. Of course, we all 
know that small liberal arts colleges like The cliche of college life was all too 
Notre Dame aren't filled with people as frightening since it bears such a remark­
egocentric and stupid as Wendell Burton. able resemblance to the sterility and im­
Well, go see it and find out how youbecility of Notre Dame. I'm sure no one 
looked Freshman year. If you still act missed this connection. You've got to 
that way kill yourself, you have no fu­hand it to Pakula, once he found the ture. Or else convince someone to make a 
cliche's he wouldn't let go. Instead, he movie about you. Then you can have 
was content to watch them grow and your cake and eat it too. Cuckoo. 
multiply like an aggravating colony of night and with
"Last I went raced the 
berserk insects. Firts-a beach scene (I·Ie's 
Highway Patrol 
been watching TV), then a roommate 
But that Pontiac done had more guts than 
scene, chen a folksinging scene, enough 
mine. 

symbolism to satisfy any symbol hunter, 
So I wrapped my tail around a telephone
de. 
pole 

Liza Minnclli must have been created I'm up in hea1•en dar/in'. now don't you to portray roles of this type, is so God -cry; please send her back. In Charlie Bubbles Ain't no reason why you should be blue. she was once again the student/secretary/ Just go out and race a cop in Daddy's old bubbling young insecure hedonistic type­Ford don't you all wish sex was really that hap­My penny-loafer baby, 
py? Don't you wish you were a fag and I'm still in love with you. " could muscle in on Wendell Burton? Makes I A Woman look like "Sesame Don't you wish I would end this review? 
Street". 

the book bid of Three. On the openingNORTil lead of the Heart King, South can count 3 Spades-QS 
spades, one heart, one club, and at least llearts-A!l6 
four diamonds for 9 tricks. 
Diamonds-K I0')32 

One problem could materialize if West Cluhs-QHS had more than four hearts and an entry. WEST If he could enter his hand with either the
EAST S J I OlJ!l King of clubs or the Queen of diamonds
S-763 
II KQJ 109 and score four heart tricks, the contract
11-32 D 5 would be sci one. If one avoids messing
D-QH4 (' K93 with the club suit, the diamonds can be
C-J764:!
SOUTil 

played to insure that West docs not ob­S-AK42 
tain the lead. 11-754 First, South holds up on the Ace of D-AJ76 
hearts until the third round, thus elimina­C-AIO ting hearts from the East hand. Ile now plays the Diamond Ace, followed by the 
The bidding: Jack. When West shows out with the 9 of 
clubs 1-'ast is allowed to hold the trick. He East South West North 
can do no better than return a club in Pass I No Trump Pass 3NT 
response to his partner's signal. Playing safe, South disdains the finesse, cashes all pass the Club Ace and leads to the Diamond King. Having been squeezed out of his Opening lead: IIcari King 
heart winners, on North's last diamond West must get down to two cards by 
Playing Standard American South pitching either the 8 of spades or the opens One No Trump. North with II King of clubs, thus enabling South to points and a five card minor suit makes score an overtrick. 
WASJIINGTON (UPI) It has pollution an issue in contract negotiations gradually become clear that many of the this year. problems besetting this nation simply arc If other unions now follow the UMW's
Little action on draft in'70 
not yielding to conventional measures of lead, the major talking points in labor ·control or elimination. management relations will be wages,
WASIIINGTON (UPI) -Words upon report to Nixon on the feasibility of 
Inflation continues despite credit pensions, working conditions and
words will he spoken in Congress about abolishing the draft and switching to an restrict ions; neither military nor breathing.
reforming the draft during 1970, but the all volunteer military force when the diplomatic pressure produces a Vietnam But this, as I see it, is only the firstodds strongly suggest that all the talk Vietnam War permits. 
settlement; new birth control methods step. The bargaining table would easily bewon't lead to action until llJ7 t. The nation will be deciding how it likes fail to halt the population explosion; etc. expanded to include other social,So much pressure built up in the past the lottery method of induction that But don't get discouraged. I think I can economic and environmental hang-ups year that legislative overlords of the went into operation this month. Congress now see the light at the end of the tunnel. that have resisted traditional remedies.
Selective Service System agreed to hold authorized Nixon to switch to a random New approaches to these hard core The plumbers' union, for example,hearings this year even though the draft selection system on the President's problems obviously arc required, and one might demand a 15 per cent wagelaw doesn't expire until June 30, 1971. contention this would he more fair and 
has just turned up that looks extremely increase, a .$1 additional contribution to While the congressmen are taking would reduce the years of uncertainty promising. It is also almost breathtakingly the pension fund, a 25-hour work weektestimony from witnesses m and out of facing young men. 
simple. and the withdrawal of 100,000 more government there will he these other Officials in Washington will be closely What we do is abandon the various troops from Vietnam.
developments during 1970: watching combat activity in Vietnam, federal programs that have been created The electricians' union, in turn, mightBy February, President Nixon will have making the necessary adJustments in to handle the problems and deal with demand higher pay, a shorter work week,appointed a new director of the Seledive troop levels there and in draft calls hack them through collective bargaining. extra vacation time and a 27% reductionService System to replace retiring Gen. home. 
In other words, if other words are in the crime rate. 
Lewis B. Hershey, the only man to have All or some of these factors will 
needed, we make the solutions to the And then the Teamsters' Union could 
headed the agency since Juty 31, 1941. influence the congressional deliberations problems a part of the fringe benefits in strike for a lower birth rate. 
The 76 year old career soldier has been a on the draft. 
tabor contracts. As to whether American business and freq uen I target of draft <.:rit ics, especially Mort> than 200 lioust> members and Credit for the basic thinking in this industry would be able to meet thesesenators would like to sec some change inthe young. 
field goes to Walter P. Reuther, president demands remains to he seen. But it Sometime this month a presidential the draft and haw introduced dozens of of the United Automobile Workers, who should make life a lot more interesting at commission headed by former Defcnsl' hills. Citizen groups are also compiling has announced that ..c will make the Federal Mediation Service.
proposals to put hcforl' congress.
St>cretary Thomas Gates is t.>Xpt>cted to 




711E OBSERVER JANUARY 13, 1970 
C~ liege Democrats prepare to aid candidates 
by Cliff Wintrode 
Observer Associate Editor 
This is the second of a series of articles on campus political organizations-ed. 

The turbulent political year of 1968 was followed by the rela­tively quiet political year 1969 marked only by the emergence of the "silent majority" as a political force in America. The frenzied activity of the political clubs on campus also slowed down accordingly in 1969 after the fall campaign of 1968. How­ever the mid-term test of Presi­dent Nixon is ten months away and many local primaries are only four months away so the College Democrats clubs at Notre Dame and St. Mary's are both preparing to enter the poli­tical arena once again. 
Observer Insight 

Junior Dennis Sujdak, chair­man of the NO College Demo­crats and Regional Director of the Indiana Federatiob of CO-clubs said his club has al­ready been in contact with Sena­tor Vance Hartke's office. Hartke running for re-election from Indiana this year and can­vassing for him and any other democrats seeking election to the U.S. House of Representa­tives and the Indiana state legis­lature will be provided this spring. 
Carol Handley, a junior and chairman of the St. Mary's Col­lege Democrats, indicated that her organization will work through the offices of Senator Hartke and incumbent 3rd Dis­trict Indiana Congressman John Brademas of South Bend. Brade­mas is up for reelection this fall. 
Sujdak likened the purpose of thP-College Democrats to the proverbial melting pot charac­teristic of our society where every different viewpoint is al­lowed, but everyone is dedicated to the "common welfare.". . 
"It is a type of orgamzat10n that is not limited in its scope of its overall viewpoint. There is room within the structure for people who espouse particular ideologies w hfch pertain to all realms of the political spec­trum." 
"It is the perfect example of the small groups of people coming together as minorities 
The OBSERVER 
NEVER FORGETS TO WRITE HOME! 
SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR SECOND SEMESTER 
NAME 
ADDRESS 

CITY ZIP 
and sacrificing their most selfish desires in order to coalesce in to a unified majority dedicated to the common welfare," said Suj­
dak. . f

Handley took a more rea1IS IC appraisal of the purpose of the St. Mary's College Democrats, but still viewed the club as a medium for campus politicos be­tween the clubs on the right and the CPA. 
"The primary purpose of. t?e club is to bring practical politics to campus. The study of politics is so much theory, and the club gives them experience in .the ap­plication of the theones the members learn about. 
"The College Democrats pro­vide a medium between the Young Americans for ~reedom and College Republicans and the Coalition for Political ACtion. The CO's tend to be a little more liberal than the YR's and YAF and a little more moderate than the CPA" commented Handley. 
Bob Vasily, a senior in BA and the treasurer of the CO's felt that the CD club afforded valu­able political experience for the political novice especially on the level of local politics, where the influence of the college student could be realized. 

"The only way to learn actual politics is to get in it. You have to work on the local level to see how politics are run. The big senator often is too involved to help you in any way. 
"A person should interest himself in local politics not only to find out how a political or­ganization is run, but to let th~se politicians know what are our m­terests and what issues are a major concern in our eyes," said Vasily. 
The vice president of the Col­lege Democrats, Rich Magrini, a junior in pre-professional, brought his involvement in the club to a more personal level of 
Few attend meet1ng 
The committee tormed to "disappointing." raise funds for the renovation of the University Arts Center Fewer than fifteen people had (formerly known as the showed up by 4: 15, and, since fieldhouse) got off to a slow there was no heat in the start yesterday afternoon in a building, the meeting was very sparsely attended meeting, brief. "It is just the wrong time described by the committee for a meeting," Dowdall said," I co-chairman Pat Dowdall as guess we'll have to wait until 
after semester break to try again. There were four hundred people behind this thing once. I hope that they're still there." 
The meeting apparently put a damper on UAC hopes to begm work on the field house immediately. Previously, UAC chairman Tom Kronk had 
expressed his desire that. no tim~ 
be wasted in startmg the 
campaign, as the com.mittee only 
has six months to raise the $1.8 
million. 

$4.00 Voice 
your 
op1n1on 

Don't foroet to return your ObserJ>er poll on co-education. Mail to The Ohserr>er, Box II Notre Dame, Ind., or bring them to The Ob\erFer office on the second floor of La­Fortune. 
convictions and action. 

"Recently, I have come to realize that in order to get an¥­thing accomplished in our so­ciety, more than just knowledge and good intentions are needed. 
I feel that the CO's afford me an opportunity to get the practical experience needed to work within the necessary well struc­tured organization," said Mag­rini. 
Handley took a strong stand against involvement by the St. Mary's College Democrats in campus issues on either campus. 
"Involvement in campus is­sues is not the purpose of the club. I especially fear involve­ment in the student body presi­dential race. When !you are elected SBP it should be not be­cause you are a college democrat or a college republican, but be­cause you are representing the vast majority of students. 
"The SBP should not be nominated or run by a political party but I am not saying that he or she cannot belong. An en­dorsement of a candidate should also not be made. You are going to have the same problems as when a club is running its own candidate. 
"It is going to bring in other things besides student issues. I can envision a person looking and seeing what party is popular nation wide and c<~mpaigning for that party's club endorsement,'' said Handley. 
Sujdak said the selective ser­vice system, the voting age, and Vietnam were the major con­cerns of the college democrats. 
"We favor a restructuring of the selective service act and a continuation of attempts to make this law as equitable as possible. "If after this law has been thoroughly researched and considered and if it is proved to be inherently ine.Juitable, then we would support the abolition
• 
J 
......./ 
~, 
Photo by Jim Hunt 

SMC and ND chairmen Carol Handley and Dennis Sujdak 
of the draft system,'' said Suj­dak. 
The College Democrats favor lowering the voting age to eighteen, as it is now in a few states for the same reasons that the idea is winning approval throughout the country; the ef­fects of the education explosion 
which has made this generation the most knowledgeable in his­tory. 
"I think that in our society our generation is much more aware of our political environ­ment and dedicated to the future. It is not only a spectator, but a doer. This to us, seems a much more valid set of require­ments than just the good fortune to reach twenty-one,'' said Suj­dak. 
The College Democrats posi­tion on Vietnam is on the dovish side, but still is in basic agree­ment with Nixon's plan for the Vietnimization of the war. 
"We would like to see an ac­celerated withdrawal of Ameri­can troops from Vietnam with the recognition that this position in no way supports or intimates at support of the government of North Vietnam," said Sujdak. 
The St. Mary's College Demo­crats became a separate club only last spring, and the club is quite anxious to maintain its identity distinct from the Notre Dame college Democrats. 
"Our relations are friendly; separate and equal. We have not worked together except for last fall's convention. We will work together in the future but we will maintain our independence. 
"We have a differenc way of looking at things, and we intend to keep our perspective separate from the men," said Handley. 
Handley said that the St". 
Mary's campus views the club 
with almost complete dis­
interest. 
"They could care less. The 
girls who are interested are. The 
ones who are not are not. The 
vast majority are apathetic," 
Handley said. 
"They have no reasonto care. 
You just have to care about 
what is going on. Right now it is 
not affecting them, but some 
day it will. The university can be 
a big security blanket. Nothing 
here is affecting you that much, 
but when you graduate, it hits 
you," she added. 
Environment course offered 
Worried about the reports l<ly 8ome ecologists and conservationists that man will never see the twenty-first century because he will have been killed off by his own envir­onment years before? 
The Civil Engineering Dep~it­
ment is worried and that is why 
it is instituting a new course for 
next semester entitled "Man and 
his Environment" in an attempt 
to educate students to the ex­
treme state of emergency that 
now exists. 
"The object of the course is to introduce the student to the interaction between technology of man and nature and to dem­
onstrate the problem which arise:s when this balanced interaction is upset," said Professor Philip Singer of the Engineering De­partment and one of the profs of the course. 
Singer emphasized that the course will be offered in two sections at 3 MWF and at 4 MWF and that there are no pre­reo ui~ites to the course which is op~n to all sophomores, juniors and seniors on both campuses. 
He added that the course is not mentioned in the course schedule booklets now being dis­tributed but that it is not a checkmarked course and that no special procedures are ,required to sign up for the course. 
The sequence number of the three o'clock session is 770360 and the sequence number of the four o'clock session is 770361. 
Singer said the course will consider air, water and land pol­lution with emphasis on the ef­fects of pollutants, the control of pollution, the health aspects, economic concerns and the legal aspects of pollution. 

------, 
I I I 
JANUARY._1.....;3,_1_97_o_____________ _____m=~'£~Q~Br£RJIM PAGE 7 
Letters to the editor 
South will rise? sl·ntative of the majority of Dame "Organization." It is this being notified whether or not I which takes precedence over 
Northerners. alumnus' contact with Krashna was readmitted for next semes­Notre Dame's zeal for adminis­
blilor:To Mr. Wall: 
Sincerely, that largely caused Dave's dis­ter (Admissions says at least one trative efficiency is an inordinateI was both amused and dis­Stephen Hoffman missal. The whole thing did and more week), I received a bill for desire for money.
turbed at your recent traumatic Little Rock, Arkansas does seem a childish personality next semester's tuition. Really, I .Yours in Notre Dame,
confrontation with a pro­
I 26 Breen-Phillips conflict. Or else Notre Dame is must protest! We wouldn't want l:u Roickle minently displayed Confederate only concerned with its public it thought that the only thing 1002 Campeau St. 
flag. I had no idea that some Krashna's dismissal image and the money it draws.
p e oplc were so fearful of 
Either way, I'm sure that the 
a nother Southern insurgence Editor: 
black students here and those
that they shudder with disgust at After reading about Dave 
that might be here are not 
a piece of harmless cloth. It may Krashna's dismissal from the 
benefitting from this incident. 
interest :,·ou to know that I Admission Office's team on Greg Smith proudly display a Southern flag minority recruitment I would 
626 Grace Tower and 

on the wall of my room, and I like to comment. Last year I and Dayton, Ohio
would certainly deny heing Clifford Sims, a black junior, termed narrow-minded, repres­went to Dayton to recruit black 'Ten' and the draft sive, or any other adjective of students. Appointments were equal nonsense. made with 50 top rarl't..ing black Editor: 
The Confederate flag no juniors from the area high I just want to share with the longer represents the advocacy schools. Mr. John Goldrick of rest of our little community the of slavery, nor Southern resent­the Admissions Office did tell knowledge of the marvelous ment of a hostile North. What it me that almost assuredly all of efficiency with which our ad­does represent, and I hope I will these top students would be ministration operates. It is really continue to represent, is the admitted if they applied. He fur-a credit to their expeditious pro­constant unity of the South, and ther told me that some type of cedures that they notified the the pride in her ability to financial aid would be given to respective draft boards of the overcome the privations of the any of the students who needed ten suspended students within Civil War. Further, I sec no it. Through a member of the six days, particularly when one reason why students of a alumni club of Dayton this considers that they had thirty northern university should be information reached the Dayton days in which to do so. I am sure criticized for taking pride in papers. The paper contained no that Fr. Riehle and the Office of their home states. false information but was hard Academic Affairs will be pleased 
I fear you arc abysmally to understand and accept by • to learn that their zeal for pro­ignorant of the contemporary some hypocrites in Dayton and cedural quickness has not gone Southern mentality. We are not Notre Dame. There was fear of unnoticed by the various local 
all racist-oriented and intellect­
the Summa Program and Notre boards involved. In fact, just to­ually hack ward. Ironically, you 
Dame's image suffering some-day I received a lucky number speak of our narrowness in the 
what in Dayton because of the 1-A. I am sure that all Notre same hreath that you narrowly article and everyone got a Dame students, together with attempt to condemn our acts 
tongue lashing from their super-their local boards, will rest more without knowing why we iors. As a result, someone, in a securely knowing that Notre fit of anger which apparently Dame is so cooperative with our
perform them. The South is not, hasn't subsided, advised that beloved Selective Service Sys­
nor ever was, a "society" with all the shadowy nuances of that particular alumnus that he tern. term. Your prejudice is deplor­wasn't to have anything to do However, just one criticism of able, and I trust 
it is not renre­
with any aspect of the Notre administrative procedure: before 
en a 
•
1n 

A Jot of people these days are going around saying it's only a matter of months until Acapulco Gold is available over the counter in menthol and king-size lengths. 
Which is an indication of how little people know about marihuana. The real fact of the matter is that marihuana is a drug. Like all drugs, it affects the human body and the human brain. Like all drugs, it has side effects. 
Today, research scientists are studying marihuana's effects on the brain, the nervous system, on chromosomes, and on various organs of the body. They're trying to find out why different people have different reactions to it. 
They're studying its effects after one or two cigarettes, and they're trying to find out what happens with long term use. 
Maybe it will turn out that there's no reason for it to be illega!. But nobody can be sure until all the facts are in. And until they all are, it's a pretty bum r~sk. 
For more facts about drugs, write for free drug booklets to: National Institute of Mental Health Box IORO Washi 



JANUARY 13, 1970

~PA~G~E8~------------------------------~~~~--0~~v.EI 
JIM MURRAY 

(!) 1970, Los Angeles Times
Billy Casper joins million 
Little
dollar circle with victory 
shavers 
Los Angeles (UP I) earnings to $1,121,946.17. Dave Hill, Jackson, Mich., shot Billy Casper, perhaps not a Scores soared in Sunday's final a final 70 for a totai of 277 and love machine but a golf machine round because of a steady rain. tied for third place with Bob 
Irwin, in his second year as a Lunn, Sacramento, Calif., who RLFANS-The fourth annual Super Bowl game began onto be sure, is in the ultra 
pro, had never even led a had a 71. the high level of a barnyard crap game this week, with the owner ofexclusive million dollar circle tournament before. the dice saying (not under oath) that he was reasonably certain they
today. Casper is not given to He and Casper started their were not loaded. Another young Sacramento When the commissioner of all football has to come
exaggeration but he says he first sudden death playoff in the 15th forward to 
pro, Bob Smith, had the lowest protest he's not running a crooked wheel, that the deck isn't
played golf when he was 4 years hole. Casper outdrove Irwin by score of the final round-a 66. marked, and that all horses in this race will be trying, the public may
old. He'll be 39 June 24 so that about IS yards and his second This gave him a total of 278 and be pardoned for wondering whether the game toss will be heads onmakes about 34 vears of golfing. shot was only five feet short of 
A San Diego, Calif. product, the pin. Irwin's second shot was a share of fifth place-good for both sides, whether the players ought to be suited up or indicted, Casper turned pro in 1954 and on the fringe but only about 12 $3,850. Tied for fifth was Terry whether it's a game or a heist. won his first tournament, the feet away. It was a downhill lie Dill, Austin, Tex., who had a 70. They've moved this game from Los Angeles to Miami bo New Labatt Open, in 1956. and he stroked the ball too hard. Four pros ended in the 279 Orleans hut maybe they should kick off in Sing Sing. A U.S. 
Sunday he won his 46th It went past the cup and he was bracket-worth $2,837.50. They attorney in Michigan has raised the doubt whether quarterbacks are tournament-the Los Angeles lying three. were Dave Stockton, Westtdke, trying to fool the secondary or the American public. The headline Open-and the $20.000 first prize Calif., with a final 74; Don "Rozelle Denies Quarterbacks Crooked" is hardly in the Frank put him over the million mark in Massengale, Jacksboro, Tex., 71; Merriwell tradition. "Bookmakers Tense on Eve of Big Game" is not the company of just one other Sinks Putt For Birdie Ken Still, Tacoma, Wash., 71; what Walter Camp and Amos Alonzo Stagg had in mind. pro-Arnold Palmer. and Grier Jones, Greeport, "We'll beat the spread," is not what the guy with the pom-pom 
Casper cooly sank his putt for Grand Bahama Island, with a 71. and the season ticket has in mind. You don't win one for the old
Wins Title Second Time 

Casper, cool as could be in the bird that gave him the title. booker. a chill rain on the Rancho Park Irwin won $II ,400 for second This was the first 1970 tour­Maybe the team should play in masks or dye their hair blond and course, a birdie putt place. His total earnings last year nament of the pro tour. Next have Dick Lane announce. Maybe it's not pro football but pro
sank of were only $18,500. He never stop is the Phoenix Open start­wrestling. To make the Super Bowl, you have to win 12 straightabout five feet on the first hole 

ot a sudden death playoff with finished better than I Oth before. ing Thursday. games and a lie detector test. First prize is a subpoena. I mean, is it the "Chiefs," or should that ''C" be a "T"? I mean, the "Broncos,"
24 year old Hale Irwin to win his or "Buncos"? Is the game plan really a script?

second L.A. Open title. His It may not rain on the Super Bowl game but it will be played
earnings now total 

under a cloud. Should you cover the game from the press box? Or a
QB's get calls from
$1,001,924.48. 

horse parlor in Detroit? Do you want the halftime stats? Or can youPalmer finished in a tie for get them from a notebook in Las Vegas before the game starts? Will40th place Sunday, winning the trophy be a life-size statue of Red Grange? Or Frank Costello?
$390 which upped his career 
Adhering to the old notion that where there's smoke, there's a point spread, the Super Bowl game was torched before it was decided upon. They didn't need to put a tarp on the field but on the 
big time gamblers 
New York (UPI) the gambler. curious about Dawson's t'ele­FBI. It may be as honest as the second collection at Mass. But,Three and possibly four pro­Donald Dawson was one of 14 phone calls, many of which were outlined against a blue-gray October sky are Larceny, Perjury,fessional football quarterbacks, persons arrested by federal charged to Sober's credit card," Felony and Venality in the minds of the public. You can't be sure including Super Bowl hero Len agents in a series of raids New Time reported. "On the list of whether a team is in over its head athletically or financially.
Dawson, have received telephone Year's Day. II ,900 calls were hundreds to We take you now to some place a reporter never gets to go-to the calls from a big time Detroit Newsweek quoted a "federal horse owners, jockeys and train­locker room of one of the contending teams just before the kickoff. 
area gambler, two national maga­source" that former baseball ers, some to bookies and mob­Coach Steely lze is talking to his charges: sters, others to universities."
zines reported Sunday. great Jerome "Dizzy" Dean may Coach: "O.K. now, safetymen, when their quarterback throwsTime, which also revealedBesides Dawson, who led the have directed millions of dollars deep to the tight end and is hit as he throws, what are you going to
Kansas City Chiefs to the world in bets to some bookies while Dawson dined a number of times championship Sunday, Bill Mun­Time contended Dean intro­at the home of Jerome Cavanagh do?" Safeties (chorus): "Step in front and intercept'"
son of the Detroit Lions and duced Howard Dawson in 1967 when Cavanagh was mayor of Detroit, said investigators could Coach (turning white): "No, no, no! Do you realize what 70Karl Sweetan of the Los Angeles and Sober has since "lost rough­not learn what was said in any of million Americans at home watching will do at that instant? TheyRams also received call from ly $1 million" in bets. 
Dawso.t's phone calls and all re­will turn to each other and say 'See? And you didn't believe theDonald "Dice" Dawson, no re­Both magazines said the quests to tap the conversations papers!' Now, what you do is bat the ball down if you can. If youlation to the quarterback, investigations that Jed to the can't let me catch itI"according to articles in Time and raids Jan.! began when Sober, a were denied by the Justice 
Newsweek. Department's "top echelon." Safeties: ',But coach! We'll lose a game!"
74 year old Michigan trucking 1 Coach (wearily): "Fellows! Let me ask you something. Has thisNewsweek also said Donald executive, fearing he might miss game been good to you? Does your wife have a mink coat, a station
NCAA begins

placed calls to the home of Joe a plane connection, gave an air­wagon? Are your liquor bills all paid? Do you want to spend yourNamath of the New York Jets port clerk $50 to make a phone conventions falls greasing cars? Selling insurance? Waiting on table? Shiningwhile Time included Frank call and place a bet. Time said shoes? No? All right, then, listen to me: Intercept that pass andKush, head football coach of the bet was for $2 000 while Washington (UPI) you'll win a game and lose a sport. Now, I don't want that
Arizona State University, among Newsweek reported lt at $80(1. The National Collegiate quarterback intercepted all afternoon. Is that clear? Now,
the persons receiving calls from "The agents were particulariy Athletic Association (NCAA) quarterbacks, If our end IS out for a pass and the defender falls down
annual convention began today trying to cover him, what do you do?"
with a disciplinary crackdown against Florida State University Quarterbacks (in unison): "Complete the pass for a touchdown." 
and ethical problems with pro Coach (pressing his fingers to his eyes and groaning): "No, no, no! football, basketball and baseball.
Texas plans No.1 fete 
Do you think ANYBODY will think that guy fell down accidentally? Austin, Tex. (UPI) The NCAA governing council 
No, what you do is, you go back and help him up. Never mind the One thing you can say about dealt Florida State an additional 
football. Now, then, it's first down and 10 to go on their IR-yard line. What do you do?"
the Texas Longhorn players who two years of basket ball proba­Quarterbacks: "Try a post pattern for a touch?"
will walk into the Austin Mem­tion for recruiting violations in Coach (sobbing): "Dummies! You kick a field goal! Got that? Aorial Auditorium Monday night addition to a one year punish­field goal'"to receive a three fool high tro­ment now being completed by Quarterbacks: "On first down?!"
phy symbolic of their selection the school. 
Dave Nelson, chairn,an of the Coach: "Well, if you want, you can run a couple of quarterbackas UPI's No.I rated team-they all 
are champions. But one especially stands out. It won't be easy for him to walk into the affair, a Western motif with 3,000 persons expected. Freddie Steinmark defied nor­mal medical timetables over the weekend. all to keep his banquet appointment, and eventually continue his studies at the uni­ Fred Steinmark Day. It will he a fitting triumph to a triumphant season Monday night if Steinmark walks on crutches with his le<.~mmales to  Professional Relations Commit­tee reported that a special three man panel has been set up to try to persuade the American Bas­ketball Associ<.~lion against sign­ing up college players, such as Del roil University's Spencer Haywood, before their eligibility expires. Refusal by the ABA to cooperate might result in a cam­ sneaks. But for no more than a yard or two. We want a field goal. Is that understood?" Quarterbacks: "But, coach' We ALWAYS get six in that situation!" Coach (struggling to keep his patience): "Gentlemen, look! The point spread is 13. If we win by more than I 3 points, will anybody in the country swallow that? Now, gentlemen, the integrity of a whole industry is at stake in this game. It's up to you to protect it." Team: "Coach, you mean the integrity of football?" Coach ( sha king his head and pointing to a character in a  
versity. Stein mark, 20, a Denver, Colo., junior, was the starting safety for the Longhorns until four weeks ago when doctors at Houston's M.D. Anderson Hos­ claim the trophy topped by a lifesize gold-phtted football to be presented by IJPI National Sports Editor John G. Griffin. The Longhorns also will he presented the Grantland Rice  paign for colleges to hincler and ABA recruiting efforts in the future, Nelson warner! He also disclosed that the NCAA has had little success in ending the practice of pro foot­ pin-stripe suit, smoking a cigar, standing in a corner of the locker room): "No, gentlemen, I mean the integrity of something as Amnican as apple pic, fudge, the I<'Jag, the Fourth of July. I mean the integrity of gambling! Scarface, will you mme over here and lead us in a moment of silence? And pray I hat no one gets hurt? Particularly, lh~: handbooks in Duluth'/"  
pital  amputated  his  cancerous  Award,  voted  by  the  Football  hall teams compensal ing coaches  
left  leg. Since then  he has been  Writers Association of America.  and other sports staff personnel  
l<:arning to use an artificial limb.  Dave Campbell, sports editor of  for  providing scouting  reports.  
"It's really not too bad," said the kid for whom the Longhorns beat Notre Dame, 21-17 in the Cotton Bowl Classic New Year's  the Waco, Tex., Tribune Herald and immediate past president of the FWAA, will make that presentation.  lie also noted lh<Jl the NCAA will watch carefully the outcome of Curt Flood's lawsuit challeng­ing pro baseball's reserve duuse.  






