.r--------------------------------­
IAn Observer Poll 
You can 
One half of page four of today's Observer contains a poll in the form of a questionnaire on the subject of co-education at Notre Dame. The paper is run­ning this poll in an attempt to gather some statistical evidence on the opinions of both the Notre Dame and St. Mary's com­munities on the co-ed question. With the Student Government meeting Thursday afternoon with the Student Affairs Com­mittee and the Board of Trus­tees, the editors of the Observer believed a poll directed at assembling reactions to the co­education idea would give some indication of how mnch support 
THE OBSERIIM 

voice your op1n1on on co-education 
or opposition is present among much response as possible from The students have also been is the question of future identity the student, faculty, and ad min-their readers so that the results asked to indicate whether they for St. Mary's in the event of the istration of both schools for the will have some significance in feel the social life as it exists institution of a coed program at various coeducation proposals. the discussion at Thursday's now at both schools is sufficient, Notre Dame. Reactions have also The poll is soliciting response meeting. or whether they feel a coed been sought concerning the co­from all three groups in order to The questions were written school would offer more social residential dorm proposal. establish the extent of campus with the intent of covering all opportunities. The procedure requires only opinion on the issue. the implications involved in the The remainder of the poll cen­that the poll be filled out and 
Observer Editor Guy DeSapio coeducation proposal. The stu­ters around general reactions to either mailed or brought to the commented on the purpose of dents of both schools have been the possible results of expansion Observer office by Tuesday the poll. "We're trying to get a asked to indicate how they feel into a coed system, and faculty night, or placed in the boxes true indication from everyone the changes created by a coedu­and administrators have been that will be in the dining halls involved, the students, the fac-cational system would affect stu­asked to join the students in Monday night. The poll will ap ulty, and the Administration, of dent life intellectually and response. pear only once, in today's paper. the direction they feel Notre socially, and in the areas of aca­Here the questions Jre based The results will appear in Thurs Dame and St. Mary's should take demic reputation and school on the possible changes to the day's paper. in the future regarding coeduca-spiriC Questions on the pre-senT University structure created by tion." co-ex system and the students' the admission of women. One of 
The editors arc hoping for as reactions to it are also included. the more important points raised 


JANUARY 12, 1970 

0 }ukwu flees 
•



1mm1nent
End of Biafran war said • 
among relief agencies that have the refugees are starving, he said. 
(lJPI) Federal Nigerian been trying to feed them for Relief workers in Gabon said troops claimed the capture of 
more than two years. In Rome, starvation had decimated the successionist Biafra's capital and 
Nixon plans relief for
Pope Paul VI said he was ranks of the Biafran army as well three other towns Sunday, 
thankful the war was nearing its as the civilian population,prompting the imminent 
end but expressed fear of contributing to the success of 
war -ravaged Biafrans 
collapse of the Biafran regime reprisals by federal troops the federal offensive. They said and the end of the 30 month old against starving, homless Biafran soldiers were offering WASHINGTON (UPI) -The military sit ua t ion became civil war. 
Biafrans. little or no resistance to the White House announced Sunday papparent and particularly in the The Biafran leader, Gen. 
"A fear torments public federal troops. plans by President Nixon to last hours when it has become Odumcgwu Ojukwu fled his 
opmwn that the victory of Official reportsissued in Lagos provide relief to Biafrans and to acute." capital and war variously arms will bring with the killing said three federal divisions had guarantee against possible "We are ready for a massive reported to have gone into the 
of innumerable persons," the forged a link between the atrocities by Nigerian troops expansion of relief to civilians as jungle or to have flown to Pope said in his regular Sunday Biafran twons of Umuahia and Press Secretary Ronald Ziegler soon as the military situation 
Gabon, an African nation blessing. Aba, cutting the Biafran sain Nixon initiated a series of (continued on page 6)southeast of Nigeria that had 
In Geneva, the International territory in two, then surged dip Iomatic moves over the 
recognized Biafra. Radio Nigeria 
Red Cross said it has evacuated ahead to capture Chafia, weekend as Nigerian troops were 
said some members of Ojukwu's SL.C to meet
all its personnel from Biafra but reportedly attacking the last 
government had arrived in Arochkwu and Ututu towns and
has reinforced its medical teams strongholds of rebel Biafran Libreville, the capital of Gabon. 
finally seized the capital. The issues include
behind the advancing federal forces weakened by starvation. 
In Paris, a spokesman for the operation reduced the area of
troops. He said Nixon had been 
Nigerian government, Tayor Biafra to less than 2,000 square parietals, bus
A Red Cross spokesman said "watching the situation very
Ogunsulire, said, "The war is miles, one twentieth of its size 
an estimated five million Biafran carefully over the last three Today at 4: 15 p.m. the Stu­nearly over." lie said the federal when the civil war began July 6,
refugees are behind the federal weeks when a shift in the dent Life Council will meet in government would grant a 1967.
Nigerian military lines. Most of rooms I 12-14 of the Center for 
general amnesty to Biafrans. .. Education. Several 
"In their present position, it is Student Arts Festival members at last night's first organizational meeting. with is the report from the Com­useless and aimless to continue mittee on Campus Security. This the fighting," Gowon said in an report was covered in the Jan­
Student Arts Festival planned
appeal for Biafran troops to uary 6th issue of the Observer. It surrender. With the capture of by Cliff Wintrode . . . calls for "immediate action" to 
. Ed-members of the University Arts BesJ'des exhibitions of music
Owerri and the other three Observer Assoc1ate 1tor . . , improve the University Security
A Stud cnt Arts Festival counCil and will be ~resented. to drama, applied arts, poetry,
towns, the federal troops closed Department. The SLC shall
providing a showplace for all the UAC at theiT mcetmg dance and cinema there will
in on the Biafran airstrip at Uli, decide whether or not to im­
campus artists will become a tonight to seek the Council's also be scheduled' discussions
the secessionist area's only plement its recommendations.
reality the first week in March active support. between studen-ts and 
The next issue before the SLCremaining link with the outside said chairman Rob Bartaletti at a He emphasized that the performers. 
is the report from the Commit­world and only source of food festival organizational meeting festival will be open to all "We are a service group and tee on the Placement Bureau.
and medical supplies. Only two last night. members of the university we want to bring the arts to the This report comes in the wake ofrelief flights were able to land "We are trying to community but he did not want students so they become aware the Dow-CIA protests and it isSaturday night at Uli, which facilitate the purpose of the the p o ss i b I e addition of and appreciate them and we now the SLC's business to rulerelief agencies said had been University Arts Council which is professional talent from the want the artists to have an on this issue. 
under frderal aerial to support and preserve student faculty to "scare" away the environment in which he can If all runs smoothly the SLCbombardment for the past three art on campus and we feel the students. benefit from discussion his art meeting tomorrow will concludedays. best way to do this is to have a "It is a festival for amateurs, and getting criticism," said with the Chairman's Report onThe Plight of the defeated festival," said Barteletti. and we are not looking for the Bartaletti. 
the shuttlebus and the proposedBiafrans, most of them Ibo The idea for the festival was professional at all," Bartcletti Bartaletti was hopeful that disciplinary fines.
tribesmen, caused added concern conceived by some student said. (continued on page 7) 

JANUARY 12 1970
711£ OBSERIIER
PAGE 2 

Recommends investigation
Large double available­
• 
closet and bathroom-

SLC subcommittee reports on secur1ty
248 Farley. Phone 6793 or 

By Glen Corso subcommittee to look into the adequate personnel stems from was under Elmer Sokol, previous 
6794. 
Observer News Editor 

The Notre Dame Security force has recently come under 
HOUSE FOR KENT 
4 Bedrooms 2 Kitchens 

some close scrutiny by various groups around campus, the
2 Full Baths 

result being that changes are Completely Furnished Wall to Wall Carpeting 
expected in the near future. Several Observer staff mem­
Recently Redecorated bers and officials in student gov­
Close to Campus ernment began digging into the Contact AI Brasseur 
problem last spring. Material was gathered for a projected series in 
289-2463 

the Obsen•er, which never came
233-2673 

off. This material was helpful 
Grnrl Students Only 

though when the SLC formed its 
~--------~~~~~--_L_ 


SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 
PRESENTS 




''IN COI..D BI..OOD'' 
$] .00 Patron Card Holders $.75 
Washington Hall Thursday, January 15 7.;00 and 9:30p.m. Friday, January 16 
The OBSERVER 
NEVER FORGETS TO WRITE HOME! 
SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR SECOND SEMESTER $4.00 
NAME 

--------------------------~-----­
ADDRESS 

CITY _________ ZIP___ 
problem this year. 
The subcommittee released its 
report early last week. It called 
for a "a sweeping investigation 
of the entire security system by 
a professional research group." 
It cited various groups on 
campus as being concerned 
enough with the problem to 
have started investigations of 
security, and said that the statis­
tical rise in vandalism and theft 
was enough to warrant this 
investigation. 
The many problems which have plagued security have been the result of various degrees of apathy and indiffernce by several groups on campus, notably the Administration. In order to set up a first rate security system there are several things which are needed, all of which would necessitate a rise in security's budget. 
A prime need of security, which was cited in the SLC's report, was for a professional investigator. This man would follow up on the cases of theft and vandalism which are report­ed to security. As of now any investigation which must be done, is left up to the presently overburdened staff which simply does not have the time to do all the work which must be done. 
A second problem which has been discussed but which was not mentioned in the SLC's report is the men on firewatch in the cj.qrms at night. There Is wide spread feeling that these men are not being utilized properly. Having a man in every hall is a waste of manpower, many feel. Since an adequate fullfillment of his duties does not engage him for a full 8 hours, a guard has quite a bit of time on his hands. The job is boring so often times they can be seen napping at various times in the early morning hours. 
Mr. Pears, the current director of security, recommended a system of time clocks linked to a central office, where by a single guard would be able to patrol several halls, with the central office keeping tabs on him. The system though, was deemed too expensive by the administration. So the guards remain. 
The problem of procuring 
two causes, and was also discuss­Director and now St. Joseph's 
ed by the sub-committee. Being County Sheriff, shows how fa 
a campus security officer at security has come. Other im 
Notre Dame is apparently not provements suggested by Pears 
the most glamarous job in the have been sidetracked because of 
world. The first, and perhaps financial considerations. It ap 
primary reason is the low salary. pears that the result of short 
It was determined that a changing the security depart 
minimum of $8,500 a year as a ments is harvesting bitter fruit in 
salary would be required to the form of rising rates of van 
attract top notch people to the dalism, theft and other crimes. 
staff. The present salary is below The vice-president's council 
that. Despite the low wage, which has been concerned with 
several competent people have the problem, acted quickly after 
quit after serving as guards, the SLC subcommittee released 
its report. They called in profes 
Observer Insight sional consultant Paul Powell to 
conduct a preliminary study ofbecause of the abuse which was the campus security force.
heaped upon them by students. 
Po..yell spent most of this pastSince the prevailing feeling on Thursday on campus talking to campus seems to be that security students and administrators,consists of bumbling incom­about the security problem. Hepetents, many students find it also reviewed the files of seconvenient to air their opinions curity personnel. 
to security guards they encount­Within a week, or so Mr. 
er on campus. This creates the Powell will submit a preliminaryparadox of students desiring report to the administration,better security, yet contributing indicating which areas of theto its lack of quality by dis­security problem he will con­couraging more competent indi­centrate on if he is hired to do aviduals to serve on the force, by full scale study.
abusing them. One of the points that the 
The situation at presentreport indirectly showed was that indicates that there will be visi­the lack of good security was ble improvements in securitydefinitely not due entirely to fairly soon, if the administrationany alleged incompetence on the is willing to spend the money.
part of Arthur Pears. Most Concerned groups are optimisticimprovements which have been on this count since the univer­done since Mr. Pears took over sity has already agreed to spendhave been initiated by him. A the money for the preliminary
comparison of the present 
study.

security force, and the way it 




221 VC killed in action Cite buildup reports 
SAIGON(UPI) 

U.S. 
troops reported killing at Informed sources in Saigon said least 221 Communists in scat­about I 5 ,000 trucks were tered fighting this weekend observed in December hauling 

northwest of Saigon and in the supplies along the Ho Chi Minh northern provinces of South Trail through Laos. They said Vietnam, American military that was the highest number spokesmen reported Sunday. since the months preceding the 

U.S. 
losses were given as at least Communist Tet offensive in two dead and 26 wounded. 1968. 


At the same time, U.S. intellingnce sources reported a 
In Vietnam's northern
significant increase in the 
provinces, U.S. intelligenceComminist buildup of was sources stationed there reportsupplies across the border in that the Communist buildupLaos. 
through Laos has reached the 
point where it is ready to push
INTERESTED IN SAVING AND DEVELOPING THE across the border into Vietnam. It is not clear, sources said, whether the Communists plan to rush the supplies onto South Vietnamese battlefields for a new campaign or whether they are taking advant1ge of 
UNIVERSITY ARTS CENTER? 
MEETING MONDAY 
diminishing monsoon storms to 
stockpile material for the long haul. 

JANUARY 12 4:15PM 
UNIVERSITY ARTS CENTER 
(Fieldhouse) 
-plans for temporary partitioning and remodeling for next six months 
-discussions on financial campaign to raise necessary funds ($1.5 million) 
Ifyou are skilled or interested in any of the following, please come and ofj'er the use of 
your skills  
Carpentry  Painting/ Sculpture  Business  
Public Relations Writing  /  Politics Janitor; Clea"ning  Drama Work  
Ideas  Speaking  Arc hi teet ure  
Typing  Engineering  Research (any type)  

PROSPECTIVE SECON­DARY SCHOOL TEACHERS For M.A.'s, M.A.T.'s, Ed.M.'s, 
M.S.'s or above. Revolution­ary approach to job-hunting. Nation wide directories of positions: public, indepen­dent. Deadline: Jan.IS. Inex­pensive. Applications write: INTERCEPT, Box 317, Har­vard Square P.O., Cambridge, Mass. 02138. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
JANUARY 12, 1970 
Manson fasts Charles Manson, leader of the hippie cult charged with the Tate La Bianca murders, has gone on a hunger strike along with other inmates of his cell block to protest transfer of three prisoners, it was disclosed Sunday. The inmates were protesting the transfer from their jail section of two men charged with murder and another with assault with a deadly weapon. 
Cleaver returns? An aide to Black Panther leader Eldridge Cleaver returned Sunday to the United States, but the fugitive militant's wife and infant son cancelled their flight from Algiers at the last minute. Emory Douglas, minister of culture for the Panthers, told 

711B OBSERfi.IR _________________
P_A_GE_3 




UPI shorts 
newsmen waiting for Mrs. Kathleen Cleaver that she had Mass suicide Thoughts Just plain mean decided to remain in the 
A thought for the day: Henry Algerian capital with her FORT PIERCE, Fla. (UPI) ­
WASHINGTON (UPI)

David Thoreau said, "That man
husband. About ISO pigmy sperm whales, Attorney General John N.
is the richest whose pleasures areapparently _bent on suicide,
"Eldridge is coming back to Mitchell was asked by a reporter
the cheapest."

beached themselves along an
Baby ion the United States Sunday after White House 
eight mile stretch of sand Oscar Wilde wrote,
soon," Douglas said, echoing church services how he was 
Cleaver's recent statements he Sunday and returned to shore "As long as war is regarded as standing up to his reputation as will return secretly to the even when hauled out to deep wicked, it will always have its a tough, uncompromising, law water. facination. When it is looked
country he fled more than a year and order official. ago. "If we saved three out of the upon as vulgar it will cease to be Mitchell, puffing on a pipe, 
Cleaver disappeared in late bunch we were lucky," said popular." replied with a smile: ''I'm justFlorida Marine Patrol spokesman 
November 1968, hours before No one sleeps mean." 
Jerry Rogers. 

California authorities planned to 
in Church anymore 
"Every time we'd drag one And finally ....
pick him up as a parole violator. 
WASHINGTON (UPI)out to sea, it would turn right
He also faces assault and Ambrose Bierce said,
Rev. Norman Vincent Peale,around and beach itself again.
attempted murder charges in "Woman could be more
preaching at the first WhiteNo one knows why."
connection with an April 6, charming if one could fall into
House worship service of theIt was the largest beaching of
1968 gun battle between her arms without falling into her
new year, said Sunday thisthe dwarf whales reported inPanthers and Oakland Police. 
hands."

nation has become "so nervousrecent years, although occasional Cleaver has spent most of the and tense" no one sleeps inbeachings of one or two whalespast year living in Cuba and is not uncommon. church anymore. 
Algeria. 

How do you feel about co -education? 
In an attempt to gauge the feelings of the students of St. Mary's and Notre Dame The Observer is spon­(For St. Mary's students) Classes at Notre Do you think that the academic reputation Soring the following poll on co-education. Fill it out Dame are, for the most part, academically of Notre Dame would be hurt if women were and mail it to The Observer, Box 11, or bring it to (circle one) superior, inferior, on a par with admitted? ---YES --NO The Observer office by Tuesday night, or place it in 
courses at St. Mary's.
the boxes that will be in the dining halls Monday 
Do you think that the "Notre Dame spirit"
night. The results will appear in Thursday's Obscr~er 
If you don't take aCo-Excourse now, would would be hurt if women were admitted?
in time for the meeting of the Student Affairs Com­mittee of the Board of Trustees, who will discuss the you like to? -----YES ---NO ----YES ----NO entire issue. 
If Notre Dame were co-ed would applications 
Why aren't you taking a Co-Ex course now? go (circle one) up, down, or remain the same?
(curriculum is inflexibble, does not allow it,I am: Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
shuttling from one school to another is too 
Have you ever thought of transferring to a
much of a problem, do not think it is worth­
student student co-educational school? -----YES ----NO 
while, etc.) 

faculty faculty administrator administrator Do you think that St. Mary's could maintain its identity if Notre Dame were to admit girls? Indicate your class: (circle one) Freshman ----YES ----NO Sophomore Junior Senior Do you think it is important for St. Mary's 
Was one of the reasons that you came to to maintain a separate identity? ----YES either Notre Dame or St. Mary's because it ---NO Why? was not a co-educational institution? ---YES --NO 
Did your parents want you to come to the institution you arc attending because it was not co-educational? -----YES ---NO 
Ilave you ever had a Co-Ex class? ---YES --NO Do you think the Co-Ex program should be Do you think that Notre Dame should set upDid you feel that it was worthwhile? ---YES 
a co-residential dorm on an experimental
-NO expanded? ---YES --NO basis? ---YES --NO 
Indicate your reasons for the above answer: H~ve you dated (while at school) since you Would you like to live in it? ---YES ----NO
(did you feel that girls/boys added something have come to college? --YES --NO academically to the class, socially, etc.) 
What would your parents think about the
Have you dated someone from Notre Dame/ 
idea?

St. Mary's? --YES ---NO 
Do you find it hard to meet students from the other school?---YES ----NO 
Do you think the social atmosphere at school is (circle one) superior, inferior, at a level with that at home? 
Would you date more if Notre Dame/St. 
Do you think that St. Mary's should haveMary's was co-ed? ----YES ----NO co-residential dormitories? ----YES ----NO 
Would you live in it? --YES ----NO
THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS SHOULD BE ANSWERED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY, Would a co-residential dormitory harm theAND ADMINISTRATORS ALIKE. 
(For N. D. students) Classes at St. Mary's reputation of either school? -----YES ---NO arc, for the most part, academically (circle one) superior, inferior, on a par with courses Mail to The Observer, Box II or bring to
Do you think that Notre Dame should admit 
at Notre Dame. The Observer office, second floor L'l Fortune.
women? ---YES ---NO 
PAGE 4 


James Chelich 

The living dead 
The following is reprinted from the Breen Phillip's "Pace Setter"­Breen-Phillip's Hall Newspaper. -ed. 
"I am sorry to have to be the one to tell you this son, but you have contracted terminal cancer--you have only a short while to live.". 
These words become a bitter reality for a freshman on campus one. whom the hall religious community has been remembering in their prayers for some weeks. For a moment the world stops rolling mernly along and you reflect. Now you walk to the mirror in your room and look at yourself and wonder how many days you have left. No, I am not leading you in an exercise of despair but it seems that this is the only way to move ourselves to an insight into this existence of ours that we must have. Only if we can just momentar­ily realize how very imminent and constant is the chance of death in each of our lives can we come to realize how terribly unimportant so many of the things in this world really are. 
Ages and ages of History's dust have obliterated the memory of countless men and the monuments of their empty ambitions and yet, mankind and many of us persist in our madness-strivin~ like 
maniacs to do what society and everybody expects us to do, fighting to reach the goals everybody expects us to reach and turning oursel­ves into neurotic monsters in the process. Men spend their entire lives doing what they really don't want to do and stepping all over people they really don't want to step on just to wrest for themselves power, wealth and status in the eyes of a world they despise. The fact is that they never reach where they are going because they pursue a shadow of their misery--a goal, that attained, would only bring horror in the realization of what they have become. The life of these men, our lives, become one ganglion of tensions, fears hates jealousies, and anxieties. Death will mark for us the end 'of ou; 
greatest misery-ourselves. . I once heard Fr. Burtchael tell a sophomore concerning his major m school, that he should choose it as if he were going to die the day after he graduated. I believe that the spirit of this advice offers a great deal by way of direction in the building of each of our lives. If you have one year to live, what would be the value of continuing to hate, of continuing to be ambitious at the expense of your fellow man? Where ~ould the _value of life be then save in exercising your talent_s, pursumg your mterests and enjoying life with your fellow man m every way that you can possibly make it yield beauty and peace for you both. We might well find that many of the things that would disappear from our lives would be those that now make Jiving each day a terror for us all. 
. ~n re~pon~e to those who would brand me with the stigma of VICious Idealism permit me to offer a few figures from the psychia­tric wards of our hospitals: 
-75% of our population displays some evidence of mental illness· -150,000 people in the U.S. are confined to mental hospital~ every year; -One twelfth of the population of the U.S. today will face mental illness before death. This, my good friends is no way to life-it is a way to die. 

Letters to the Editor 
Great White Hope  honestly think we can long intimidate the communists and  made Adolf Hitler Captain Kangaroo?  look  like  
Dear Mr. Corso:  the third world nations?  And  so  property  
Having made "your decision," I find it tragic that you are only half right in the roots of your argument. It is a fact that "aggression is deeply imbedded in human nature." Moreover, even I do not believe it can be  I would suggest that that is a worthless and a losing battle. You must understand that the NLF, despite the material and physical depletion of its resources, has fought the most powerful country in the world  redistribution must come out of necessity or genocide will take its place. It would be wise if white America willingly undergoes property redistribution (part of the witness of the ND ten) simply  
simply eradicated. But it is also true that man has gentle forces just as deeply imbedded in him. Man is good. Man is evil. What is nec~ssary is a new way of resolving human conflict by combining these two forces in man which will not eventually destroy him. And so we experiment in non-violence and perhaps make serious errors in the process, but this may be the only hope: Since your column was primarily concerned with the practical necessity of your decision, I ask you my own practical question..Can we survive if we follow your advice? Your decision involves a commitment of war against communism and the third world, for those are the enemies of corporations and the U.S. Military. If we preserve corporations and the military as they exist today, do you  to a standstiii.And what has that done for us beside cause domestic upheaval? Add to the war of liberation in Vietnam, simialr wars in Cambodia, Thailand, Laos, China, the countries of Africa, the countries of South America, and a domestic civil car between blacks, Chicanos, Indians, Spanish Americans, and white America. Mr. Corso, I submit that your blueprint for our self-defense is filled with illusions of power we no longer wield. You are at war with two-thirds of the world and one-quarter of the United States, forces which are at war with the corporate and military complexes of this country. Following your directions, the best we can hope for is a Pyrrhic victory (i.e. mass genocide). Christianity has few good words for genocide. Will the world be worth living in if the victors have  out of a need for survival. But even the gospels recommend property redistribution as the way of (salvation?): It would seem that the ten have pointed out a way at least slightly more Christian and, in an overall perspective, much more practical than your way. Oh yes, and you'd best reread the gospels on self-defense (something about turning the other cheek and the "eye for an eye" business being old hat) and check out St. Augustine on the just war theory (we aren't fighting the Cong in Hawaii afterall), and considering your decision, you might spend the next semester groovin' over the Apocalypse, and discover who the four horsemen really are. Yours in the Great White Hope, non-violence, ken guentert 1106 St. Joseph  


JANUARY 12, 19JO 
! ~ 
I 
" 
(;
' \ 
(I
I 

REG1STER HERl 
Sorry, son--you're going to have to change that major again! We just can't seem to fit you in Electrical Engineering this semester .... 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Dave Lammers 
Strength without sight? 
Dear Father Hesburgh, 
I would like to express my sense of recent happenings within this community. I express these thoughts with the hope that you would soon answer these thoughts, placed before the community, with your own. 
First, I feel that the ten students confronted certain issues in our society that must be challenged. I believe that these students are correct in judging that a war such as the present one being fought is the product of a deeply rooted malady in the spirit of America. This "system," so well protected by many of our laws and institutions, is built upon many of our nation's largest corporations that deny moral responsibility in favor of profits, such as Dow chemical, and in conjunction with the government, notably the CIA . 
But this is elucidated in the statement of defense by the ten suspended students so that it cannot be ignored. Indeed, it requires a deliberate desensitizing of the conscience to avoid confronting the ever present realities of the suffering that our Vietnamese brothers, for example, are subjected to. 
These ten suspended students are without a doubt some of the awakened members of our community. They have taken suffering upon themselves so that the plight of the voiceless masses, the plight of those people presently suffering because of this system, can be brought close to the heart and soul of this community. These students created a moral crisis by disrupting the normal complacency of the everyday life at this university. These men felt a need to expose our complicity through complacency by confronting the community with an act of disobediance, an act of non-violent resistance. 
This was a responsible rebellion. The free and independent decision of these ten men to base their defense on the moral imperatives proves this ever present desire to awaken the Christian conscience of this university. This is the spirit of the ten. 
It is true that several of the ten were "innocent" of violating the fifteen minute rule, yet chose not to break with the group. They chose to accept suffering upon themselves so that the moral issues at stake would possess the force of continuity. These men, together with their fellows, have been suspended from school (in effect, a $1500 fine), and they have been turned in to their draft boards, a step I feel was unnecessary and inflammatory. In a real sense, these ten students are the suffering servants of Notre Dame. 
From the extent and nature of your committments to this nation, Father, and from statements of yours that I have read, I feel that you share the same passion for radical reform as these ten students, though you chose a different method of expressing that committment. This act of disobediance has stimulated new examinations of the purpose of this university. Is the Administration of this university capable of responding to this initiative? 
Phil McKenna and others have made an act of good faith by calling off support demonstrations for these ten. Can you, as chief administrator, answer the spiritual, moral, and Christian committment of these students with a similar response? 
If change can come within this community non-violently, it must come now. Extend clemency to these ten students. I do not agree with one of my fellows who claims that "the lines have been drawn and the swords sharpened." I do agree with your fellow civil rights worker, Martin Luther King, who said, "We must move past indecision to action. We must find new ways to speak for peace in Vietnam and for justice throughout the developing world, a world that borders on our doors. If we do not act, we shall surely be dragged down the long, dark, and shameful corridors of time reserved for those who possess power without compassion, might without morality, and strength without sight." 
JANUARY 12, 1970 THE OBSERUER. 
PAGE 5 



The 60's -from Chubby Checker to CCR 
by Jim E. Brogan 

"Yes these top tunes arc the most insignificant songs of our decade." llow many times did we all hear this during the past vacation? It echoed from every music station, magazine, & newspaper across the land. Even the OhscrPer got into the act -they asked me to compile what I thought should be the top 100 popular songs of the previous decade. But after heing inundated with similar faire for 2 weeks at home, I thought we might all be a little sick of seeing just another meaningless top song listing. 
So I have decided to simply write my observations of the musical trends (if there arc such things) of the I960's as I remember them. 
The sixties starte9 slowly musically ­they simply repeated the late 1950's sound. This was not a bad sound, but popular music wasn't moving anywhere there was little that was new, little that was exciting. Popular music wasn't that popular; it was on the decline. 
Then in 1962, a new craze that rocked the country. It was a dance called the twist, which was executed with the motions of drying your back off with a towel, while at the same time crushing out cigarette butts with both feet. Popular music was in the limelight ­expccially a young chicken plucker from South Philidclphia who called himself Chubby Checker. The name was obviously borrowed from one of pop 

After their initial successes of 1963--64 the Beatles influenced the world of rock as no other group of the 60's. 
:::!:~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:~;!:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
..  ..  
:;:;  ;:;;  
~..:~.==.~...=:=~=~  Paul Gallagher I'm a lump  ,:~...=!:·!·=··;.=~.::!:  

It had been a long time since high school musicale days. He thought back now to opening night in sophomore year. llow he ahd been the only guy piling in a car filled with girls after the show. lie remembered his brother dragging his mother to the scene. "Look at your son!", his brother howled. "And you worry about him." 
lie had felt good. Everyone like him. They laughed at his antics. Even his brother with letters for football, basketball and track felt proud of him. 
lie th.ought of practice. "Where is Dettling?" the directing nun used to yell when the band was in place and all were ready for a number-all except the absent minded dancer. The crowd would alugh as he was located playing catch with a stocking cap or trying to grab hold of a basketball net and then came running across the gymnasium when he discovered his err. 
The clock buzzed, 6:00, and his mind retruned to his desk. lie knew he'd thought all he could about thoughts greater than which none could be thought and of levels of being. It was Saturday night again. lie could feel the rooms a bout him implying out and the desperate sounds reducing to the lone voice of a nearby librarian. lie could not wait for that. 
Outside the air was cold but his legs became limp and listless at thoughts of filing in line for food. He thought of the guys on the floor, all the discussions, the bull-sessions in his room. They really liked him, they really did. It wasn't that condescending, chummying kind of thing. They respected him. They thought him a friend. 
Then why the change tonight'! Why were weekends so void'! He thought of laughter on the floor. The sound of girls and guys. Didn't anyone wonder where he was? "Dettling get up" came through his ears and he saw himself sprawled across the footlights with the directing nun feigning anger high above. The crowd laughed. The crowd did laugh. It laughed. 
A pain shot through his chest as he thought of going to his room. The kind of pain you feel when crying for yourself or wishing his light wouldn't shine through the transom, of hiding on his bed. And more painful than all he remembered a chance meeting as he snuck one time through the hall. He remembered how he talked to a friend with a girl. How his friend talked and talked but kept the girl behind him. Just behind him to the left. They had talked and smiled but he was never introduced. 
The funny thing was the way his friend had looked at him, with an odd wrinkle on his chin, a triumphallook....no, a stiff but interested look. Then he moved on. Funny thing. 
The wind whistled as he turned around the library. He thought of reading something light, a magazine, a novel. lie dreaded the walk off campus, a Burger Shef, a cup of coffee, thoughts of home. He thought of pep rallies, of St. Mary's, of being urged to laugh hysterically at lousy jokes. He thought of competing. He couldn't. It was degrading. 
As the weeks had passed, he had called every girl he knew at home. They had talked a while, puzzled why he was calling ehm long distance. He had filled them in on what was going on and had said he'd see thenl'Sometime when he got home. And then it would be over. 
Behind the library he found at least solitude. The wind lifted the snow before his step and into his face. He headed east. 
music's all-time greats, Antoine Fats Domino; and there was much speculation that new stars would soon be on the rise with the improbable names of Tubby Tiddlcywinks, Biggie Backgammon. or Porky Parchcesi. 
This phase is most important because it propelled pop music in front of the people, who weren't supposed to like this music. Discoteques opened all over the country not to cater to the teeny-bopper, but to the young adult. 
Dance after dance (one more ridiculous than the other) was created to fuel the fire of people searching for new steps. It was fashionable now for a wide range of people to enjoy the same music. 
This opened the door in I 964 for the advent of pop music's fab four -the Beatles. With them came an invasion of new musical groups from England. Some of them lasted for only one hit, but it was the Beatles who remained to dominate the music scene for the remainder of the decade. Everything they touched turned to gold -they inovated and everyone else followed and many still are following to­day. The fans that grew up with the Beatles loved pop music and have not lost their yen for it breaking the tradition that it was fashionable for one's taste to change to "adult music" upon reaching college. 
After the initial impact of the Bcatles (i.e., as the fans grew older) there was a cry for relevance in modern song as in everything else. The Beatles catered to this, or maybe created it, but it was Bob Dylan who stole the show. Folk music was the music that said something, and it was folk music that grabed the country. Sing-a-longs of favorite folk tunes were most in. 
Dylan, although he didn't have much of a voice, had much to say. He had the meaning, the words the youngsters wanted to hear. He was the most vocal of the folksters, and the most popular. 

~;;::~~~~;E~t~E ~~~~f1~~~t1~e~~~~rf;~~
They did folksy stuff, like Dylan's Mr. Tambourine Man, but added a rock twang. Everyone was pleased, it was rock music with meaning. Then in 1967 a phenomenom that had been brewing for years finally boiled over. It was called Soul Music, and no one could get enough of it. Barry Gordy's Motown music started selling to a white audience -it was no longer rythem & blues, but popular soul music. The Supremes, Martha Reeves & the Vandel­las, the Temptations, the Four Tops, and Smokey Robinson & the Miracles although they had been around for years: finally got the acclaim that they so de­served. The cry for relevance continued and in 1968 developed into what has been called heavy, progressive, or underground music. 
The musician had to play what he felt was important to him. If it was important to no one else, that didn't matter, as long as the mtlsician got something out of it. Most occasional pop listeners couldn't understand or identify with this good underground music, and it looked like pop music was on the skids again. The 


Bob Dylan helped folk music 
move into the rock age, but 
moved back to a simpler country 
sound with John Wesley Harding 

and Nashvile Skyline. audience wanted escape from tile harsh reality of the world and they weren't get­ting it. 
The reaction to underground saved pop music and revitalized it. This 1968-69 reaction was big and took off in 3 major directions. The first was what we refer to as Bubblegu m Music. The idea here was simple make the songs simple, meaning­less, and aim then at the young bubble gum chewers. The Ohio Express, The 1910 Fruitgum Company, and the Archies made it the biggest, with the earlier Monkees being only a step higher than direct bubble gum. It served its pur­pose well; it got young people interested in pop music and as they grew older and began to think more, their tastes 
branched out into different areas of pop music. 
A different reaction was the coming of age of Country Music. Glen Campbell led the charge (although he soon became commercialized, while still talking like a hick), followed by Johnny Cash (who has 
seen the charts years earlier with I Walk the Une and Ring of' Fire) and even a new Bob Dylan and Rick Nelson. The Byrds tried again, by combining country & rock in an album called Queen of the Rodeo, but this time didn't make it. The Flying Burrito Brothers tried the same thing but didn't make it either, while The Band (who used to back up Bob Dylan) are on their way to making it big. 
The latest reaction (for many pop fans 
who like neither bubblegum or cornpone 
music) has been referred to as the Cre­
dence Clearwater Revival (after the group 
most successful at it) This is the revival of 
a rock music not unlike that of the fifties. 
Fats Domino made a comeback of sorts, 
the Rolling Stones changed back to their 
old rock style, and Cat Mother & the All 
Newsboys struck with the single That 
Good Old Rock & Roll. The Credence 
Clearwater Revival, first hitting with Suzy 
Q. has not been able to be stopped in their quest for the top of the tunedex with their solid rock & rollicking. 



JANUARY 12, 1970
PAGE 6 
Academic community vs. university structure 
duce into his teaching controver­dents, we presented the Place­so), and to which the freedom of in the society? 
This is the third part of a sial matter which has no relation ment Bureau with the required a teacher belongs. The direction (b) The teacher is cautioned series reprinting the argu­against in traducing "controver­

to his subject . .. petitions: the Administration of investment policy, financing
ments of the Notre Dame ten (c) The college or university chose to ignore these "proper of research for outside purposes, sial matter which has no relation about the nature of the 
teacher is a citizen, a member of channels" and proceed with the and procuring officers for the to his subject." How broadly
University's complicity with a learned profession, and an interviews. On November 18, we military, government, and indus­will that be interpreted by a uni­the military -industrial com­
asked the recruiters themselves try are hardly decisions protect­versity structure that is not criti­
officer of an educational institu­plex. Opinions about their cal of but complicit with the
tion. When he speaks or writes as to talk openly with us: the Dow ed by any postulate of academic
position can be addressed to political structure? (Note the
recruiter was amenable, but the freedom.
a citizen, lze should be free from The Observer, Box 11. 
fate of those who dealt re::ently in controversial matter at Yale
insitutional censorship or disci­administration was not. More­3. If the modern American 
pline, but his special position in over, the Placement Bureau university were similar to the 
the University of Chicago, and
the community imposes special violated the "corollary (to the medieval universities magistro­
I. It has been asserted that, 

obligations. As a man of Imming 'open speaker's policy) of an rum discipulorumque the UCLA.)
by our action against Notre 
(c) As an "educational offi­
'open listeners' policy" enunciat­whole fellowship of teachers and 
and an educational officer, he
Dame's complicity, we somehow 
cer" the teacher is required to
ed by the Student Life Council students (alone) -then the
should remember that the public 
threatened someone's adacemic 
show "appropriate restraint. .
on December 2, 1968 by refus­"university structure" would be
may judge his profession and his
freedom. The seriousness of this 
.when he speaks of writes as a
ing to schedule appointments for sparse at best and the university
institution by his utterances. He
charge in a University communi­
citizen." What "restraints" will
students who were known to be (as "academic community"
should at all times be accurate,
ty requires an answer. The 
be appropriate" in the eyes of a
politically unsympathetic to alone) would truly be able to
should exercise appropriate re­
"1940 Statement of Principles 
university structure with a vest­
these organizations! avoid political involvement. But
straint, should show respect for
on Academic Freedom and 
ed interest in Dow and the CIA? 
now the structural tail wags the
the opinions of others, and
Tenure" of the American Asso­2. We agree with Professor In sum, then: (I) The Univer­
should make every effort to indi­academic dog. In the con­
ciation of University Professors Donald Kommers (who agrees sity political position 
temporary university (perhaps assumes a
cate that he is not an institution­
defines academic freedom as with us on little else!) on his dis­by its mutual support for the
particularly at Notre Dame) the
a/ spokesman. 
follows: tinction between the "umversity social and economic system
faculty have become employeesIt is difficult for us to see how
(a) The teacher is entitled to structure" and the "academic 
represented by Dow and CIAand the students, products. The
full freedom in research and in our action violated any part of community." He describes the 
and is responsible for repressionuniversity structure arrogates to
the publication of the results, this definition. The recruiters 
relationship between the two as, and exploitation at home and
itself the protection that thewere certainly not here as teach­
subject at the adequate perfor­
"The structure houses the abroad; (2) it uses rules to pro­
principles of academic freedom mance of his other academic ers and can hardly claim the community." Now it is surely tect the "normal activities of the 
duties; but research for pecun­privileges of teachers. Further­the "academic community" properly afford only to the aca­university" -ostensibly in de­demic community.
iary return should be based upon more, it was we who sought an which can be called an "open fense of individual rights ­
4. It is our contention that 
an understanding with the open discussion of Dow and CIA 
system of intellectual ex­the real enemy of academic free­which are invoked only againstwith the recruiters. In accord­
authorities of the institution. 
change"; which is "incapable of effective interference with this
dom is the political stance of the
(b) The teacher is entitled to ance with the Student Senate 
taking a position on anything" university structure -its compli­political stance; and (3) it in­Resolution which demands open
freedom in his classroom in dis­
(because, assumedly, of the city with the economic and poli­vokes the name of academicdiscussions with recruiters when
cussing his subject, but he 
freedom to defend not the"open system" it represents); tical powers of the state. Forrequested by one hundred stu­
should be careful not to intra-
and to which the above state­example: intellectual activities of the aca­ment on academic freedom demic community but the politi­applies. But can the "university (a) The right to 'Jull freedom cal position of the university structure" shelter its political of research" also has financial structure, while denying in prac­
position behind the shield of implications: research in most tice the openness implied by aca­academic freedom? The struc­.fields requires money. How will demic freedom. ture is hardly an "open system that money be allocated when The political position which of intellectual exchange": which the university structure is the university has assumed is is "incapable of taking a posi­bought and paid .(or by the intolerable: we arc bound in tion" (we have seen how it does system responsihle .f(JY the evils conscience to oppose it. 
Fieldhouse renovation to start 
by Paul Gallagher 
Faculty members and stu­house, are determined to use signed his post as Student Union dents that have been pushing all every minute available. Academic Commissioner last 
semester for a cultur~ . renais­explained Kronk, University Thursday .to co-chair a newly sance on the Notre Dartrc cam­Arts Council chairman. created arts center fund-raising pus will roll up their .sleeves and 
committee. "Tom will be head· set to work again tomorrow in "Work starts tomorrow at ing a group that will try to get Enroll in CE 26: Man Arid His Environment -_,· their new arts center (the old 4:15," added Dowdall, wlw re-the center ready for next semes­
Notre Dame ficldhousc), say arts 
ter's art activities," he said, "and 
boosters Tom Kronk· and Pat
Open to all undergraduates, Sophomores and above I will be getting the fund-raising
Dowdall. Biafran conflict campaign going." The arts supporters, encour­aged by the University's action At the top of the list of things
nears con elusion 
to grant a six month's morator­to be done to turn the field­ium on plans to raze the field-(continued from page I) house into an art center are a 

Monday, January 26 4:30p.m. Tuesday, January 27 4:30p.m. 
Buses will stop at St. Mary's Holy Cross Hall 
LV. O'HARE'S CARSON, PIRIE, SCOTT & COMPANY RESTAURANT 
Sunday, February 1 8:00p.m. 
Monday, February 2 8:00p.m. 
Tickets un sale at the Travel Agency in the hasement of Badin Hall 
Cost: $5 one way $10 round trip 
Passengers must hal'e tickets and all sales are final.' 
--------ASERVICE of STUDENT UNION 

host of menial jobs. Accordingpermits," said Ziegler. 
to UAC chairman Kronk, old He also said that Nixon talked lockers have to go, rooms have by telephone Saturday with to be painted, partitions have to British Prime Minister Harold be built, and the fieldhouse has Wilson to coordinate with the t to undergo a thorough cleaningBritish government "prompt if it is to make a suitable home 
action to encourage expansion for artists. 
of relief and strengthen the international observer force "We hope everyone that has which is already accompanying helped the arts get this far this federal troops to report on any year will pitch in now that we military excesses." have the fieldhousc," said 
Ziegler said there were Kronk. "With cooperation we substantial food and medical can really do things." supplies in Nigeria that could be 
distributed to the Biafrans, but As for the campaign to raise that there was a transportation the 1.8 million needed to thor­problem. 
oughly overhaul the ficldhouse, In that connection, Ziegler all the help that is offered by said, Nixon ordered that ND-SMC students and faculty 
"appropriate U.S. aircraft" eight 
members can be amply used, C 130 cargo planes and four said Dowdall. Brochures have to helicopters now based in the 
be developed and printed, fund­United States be placed on a 24 
ing proposals have to be written hour alert to aid in distributing 
public relations work needs t;the supplies. 
be done, and research into the 
funding of centers at other uni­
WEATHER versities has to be completed to 
get the campaign moving. 

Indiana -mostly cloudy and The work, beginning tomor­fair and colder Monday night. row at 4:15, will continue right Tuesday partly cloudy north, into semester break, says Kronk. mostly cloudy south with "We intend to make second scm­chance of snow extreme south. ester this year at Notre Dame Monday highs: 22,28 north, 29, different from other years," he 33 south. said. 
JANUARY 12, 1970 THE OBJZRJIBil 
PAGE 7 
~~~~~~----------------------------------~~~~----~~~------------------------------------------~~~ 
Stick men 
Stunned hy a three-goal Ohio University barrage early in the first period, the Notre Dame icers dropped the first of a two­game weekend set at Athens, Ohio, 4 to 3. The Irish had previously handed the Bobcats two decisive defeats early in the Convo Center, but an over­confident mood led to their downfall as the Blue and Gold couldn't untrack themselves the 
_ 

•
break even 1n weekend games 
entire evening. 
Goals by Ricky Cunha and Paul Regan pulled the Irish close, hut the late rally fell short as the sextet suffered its sixth defeat of the season. 
Two goals each by wingmen Kevin Hoene and John Roselli reversed matters, however, on the following night as the Irish routed the Ohioans, 7 to 4, to take the four-game series three 
' . 

games to one. Playing short­handed for almost a full period's time, an aroused Notre Dame defense still managed to keep the brunt of action in the Ohio zone as the Bobcats were badly outshot. A few fluke goals spoiled what was otherwise an excellent performance turned in by freshman goaltender Chris Cathcart, who played full time in both Friday and Saturday 

Y.~~~ ~ part] e m ber s p I an Stu ~ e n ;~woo~ ~E~'" ~~~ ~;!! ;f=~Ly "•'"'" 
there would have to be no paid good response. Student art on b nng ~ t together, added universith community without his mner. reaction t~ the wo~ld · d m1'ssion but warned that campus is in crooks and corners BartalettJ. f' · t -t around him and art IS a creative 
a Th h'l . any manc1a1res ram . . f th' t' , 'd
unless hoped for donations come and it has not been brought out . e P 1osophy_ behmd th~ It is their university, and they expressJO_n ° IS reac JOn, sal through before the festival, a fee together before, but it is there, Id~a ~f a free festival Bartal~th shoudl be able to use it for the Bartaleth. is inevitable. and I think the students will said 1~ b~sed 0 ? the festival purpose it has been set up to Bartaletti urged that anyone 
""However I anticipate a very appreciate the opportunity to co~mlttee s . desire that the serve," said Bartaletti. who is interested in helping with festival remam free and open to Bartaletti viewed the purpose the vast amount of work that
SMC Comm'•ttee to look f U · At ·1 to comeeveryone. h 't C needs be done to the
"Since this is a festival for o t e mv~rsi y r s. ~unci and the Feshval as an a1d m the UAC's meeting tonight at 8p.m.
• f o c h • g 
amateurs and since it is not . f
education of the students. m the boxing room o the
In 0 • Ous'n costing us anything to put on u · · A c ( ld
"The concept of a university mvers1ty rts enter o 
l 'h SMC g oups w1'JJ be work the festival except for publicity,· r· ldh )
e r -is to provide an environment in Ie ouse. 
~th~~llieND~~mp~r-;~~~~;~~~;-ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-l
commission, making use of the 1 
JUNIORS 
A group of 35 SMC students have formed a committee to research the prospect of off­campus housing for St. Mary's upperclassmen. 
Junior Carol Cusick, unoffi­cial committee chairman, said the committee generally aims at "proving the many benefits of living off-campus and negating the arguments against it." 
The groups has restricted their requests to upperclassmen, she said, because of the "general consensus of our community government that freshmen need at least one year of adjustment to college pressures." 
She went on to say that "the prevailing attitude on campus is still one of the school as guar­dian and guide for the student in a new experience." 
STJJOENTS FACULTY & ADMINISTRATION: 
Feel Stimulated & Refreshe(l Go to: 
N.D. 
Barbershop Hours 8:00a.m. to 4:45 Sat. 8:00a.m. to 11:45 Open 5!.-i days a week. Serving 

N.D. 
men over I00 years. 



commission's store of informa­tion on off-campu~ housing at colleges throughout the country. In addition, the committee 
has written to NSA headquarters for information on the outcomes of precedent-making situations 
elsewhere. 
Cusick said further that the 
committee plans to write to the Board of Trustees requesting either an open forum or a meet­ing to discuss the subject. 
"The members of the Board of Trustees cannot empathize with the day-to-day issues which comprise 'student life.' Our hope is to directly convey to them that this does not necessarily connote evil, but, rather, good." 

night's games. 

comes to the Convo rink for a With the Irish record now 
7:30 encounter with the Irish. 
standing at 9 wins against 6 
Notre Dame entertains the defeats, Coach "Lefty" Smith Buckeyes of Ohio State in hopehopes to improve on it as the to revenge a 4-3 defeat earlier in 
iciers return home for three the season on Friday and Satur­
games before a mid-semester day nights. Game time for both road trip to the Far-West. will be 8 o'clock. Tuesday night Lake Forest 
FBI probes gambling 


NEW YORK (UP!) -One big time gambler placed telephone calls to the homes of four pro football quarterbacks, including Len Dawson of the Kansas City Chiefs, during the span of a few months, Newsweek Magazine reported Sunday. 
In an article in its current edition, Newsweek also quoted a "federal source" as saying former baseball great Dizzy Dean may have directed millions of dollars in bets to some bookies. 
Dean was searched and ques-
SENIOR PORTRAIT 
SIGN UP FOR 
•
D 0 ME '71 
ATE: JAN 15 -19 PLACE: 
DINING HALLS TIME: 5:30 -6:30 
....,...Uusc JYt"sioll j"" · 
Craftsmen in Optics 
FOR THE FINEST EYEGLASSES ANOCONTACTLENSES-­
T/JH SHERLAND BLDG. 132 S. MICHIGAN ST. 
Ccn tral 2-146!? 

'l1.cJ(tJUSe oJ VaioJt ~ 
Main Office: 135 N. Wabash Ave.--Chicago 
tioned but not arrested New Year's Day when federal agents arrested 14 alleged gamblers in a series of raids aimed at breaking what was called a national bet­ting operation. 
"Dean," the magazine said, "also steered big bettors toward gamblers such as Dice Dawson and the Martino brothers of Biloxi, Mississippi. One govern­ment source estimated that Dean may have directed millions in wagers toward bookies in the past few years." 
ND fencers open 3-0 

N D's fencers opened their season Saturday on the road with victories over three Big Eight schools. Exceptional per­formances hy the foil squad helped the Irish to wins over Missouri 17-IO,Kansas 19-8,and Iowa State 20-7. 
Dave Keeler and John Lyons had perfect 6-0 records in the foil while Glenn Kalin was S-1. This squad chalked up the only 9-0 shutout of the day, against 
Rookie defenseman Bill Green entereq this weekend's contests as the second-leading ND scorer. 
Iowa State. They defeated Mis­souri 7-2 and Kansas R-1. 
Roger llolzgrage and Mike Feeny led the sabre team with 6-0 and S-1 marks. Missouri and Kansas fell 6-3 and 7-2 while Iowa State proved tougher to best, going down S-4. 
The big disappointment was the performance of the epee team, supposedly one of the best in Irish history. They fell to Mis­souri and Kansas by S-4 scores before tripping Iowa State 6-3. Hugh DePaolo had a 3-1 mark while Rich Deladrier was 4-2. 

ALL YOU CAN EAT 
(includes 1 soft drink) 
ONLY $1.35 

EVERY MONDAY AND TUESDAY 5-7 p.m. 

PIZZ.t\ HUT 
NUMBER 2 JUST 1 MlLE EAST 
of Notre Dame Out Edison 
233-3827 

JANUARY 12, 1970
THE OBSEIW£R.
PAGE 8 
•

Free throws crucial •1n Irish w1n 
Irish ran off 16 straight points asby Jack Schaefer points in the first eight minutes Villanova soph Chris Ford's ond half with Collis Jones on 
Tommy Sinnott (I0 points for 
Observer Sports Writer of the game highlighted by a shooting, the scoring of Sammy Howard Porter. Jones played the game) and Carr scored from
driving layup which had to be Sims and Howard Porter under­some great defense on Porter 
the outside while Jones and Cat­Saturday afternoon the Notre seen to be believed. However, neath, and the smooth ballhandl­(only 9 points in the second lett kept the ball alive andDame basketball team beat a John Pleick drew his third foul ing of Fran O'Hanlon forced the half). Collis played Porter very scored underneath. With fivefine Villanova contingent 94-92 with 14:43 to go in the half and Irish out of their ineffective closely without the ball thus pre­minutes remaining the Irish hadin overtime. As the game started zone and into a man-to-man late venting him from even taking
was replaced by Jay Zizpewski. 
built up an 80-71 lead whenit appeared as though the Irish Jay did a tremendous job but in the first half. Villanova actual­shots. This was surely one of the O'Hanlon and the momentumwould run Villanova right off 
the momemtum gradually ly had a two point lead toward keys to the Irish victory. 
returned to Villanova.

the court. Jack Meehan's pas­
switched to Villanova as the the end of the half but a Ziznew­
sing, Austin Carr's shooting, and Irish got sloppy .(some bad pas­ski foul shot tied the game 46-46 In the second half th< O'Hanlon tied the game at momentum was constantly 80-80 with 1:36 remaining, but
so~e great team runn~ng forced 
ses and some passes that were at the half. changing form one team to the
the Wildcats to play Notre in the process he drew his fifth Dame's game. Austin had 10 too good) and the game slowed The Irish came out in the other. With ten minutes remain­personal. Sinnott hit a clutch
down. man-to-man defense in the sec­ing the Wildcats had a 7 point 
one-and-one. Sammy Sims came lead (7 1-64) thanks mostly to 
back to tie it with a basket for
Statistics 
some great basketball by number 
Villanova with a little over a VILLANOVA FG FT Rbds Pts 23 Fran O'Hanlon. He moved in 
minute to play. The Irish came and out of the Irish defense with down court and failed to score
Howard Porter 10-19 1-1 14 21 Chris Ford 12-16 3-5 5 27 such smoothness and apparent as the Wildcats regained 
ease that the Irish seemed to be possession with 50 seconds left.
Sammy Sims 7-9 4-6 8 18 coming down court simply be­Villanova worked for the
Clarence Smith 2-8 0-1 6 4 cause thaere was nothing better shot, missed, and in the scrambleFran O'Hanlon 7-14 I-I I IS to do when Villanova had the for the vall Villanova sub JoeHank Siemiontowski 1-10 2-4 IO 4 ball. The statistics bear this out Walters was fouled as the clockJoe McDowell 0-2 1-3 3 I as the Wildcats consistently sho~ed 6 seconds remaining.
Joe Walters 0-2 0-2 0 0 pulled down offensive rebounds Walters (7 of eight from the free
Team Rebounds 5 
for that second and third shot. throw line for the year) missed
At this point (approximately the foul shot and the Irish failed PERCENTAGF 49% I 0 minutes remaining) the Irish to call time out and NOTRE DAME FG FT Rbds Pts 
went to a three guard offensive subsequently failed to get off a Collis Jones 8-15 1-2 11 I7 consisting of Carr, Tom Sinnott, shot before the buzzer sounJed. Sid Catlett 8-I2 I-5 9 17 and Mike O'Connell. The de­The overtime see-sawed back John Pleick 1-3 I-3 4 3 fense, back once again to the and forth for the first few Austin Carr 15-30 3-4 10 33 man-toman-, began to ~how life. minutes until a couple of steals, Jackie Meehan 2-3 0-0 0 4 A big play for the Irish was Fran one by Carr and one by Jones, Mike O'Connell 0-0 4-4 2 4 O'Hanlon's fourth personal foul and a tip in by Catlett gave the Tom Sinnott 4-8 2-4 6 10 which brought in Joe walters for Irish the lead which they never Jay Ziznewski 2-5 2-6 3 6 the Cats. O'Connell forced Wal­relinquished. Jones had two big 
T earn Rebounds 5 ters into four big turnovers while overtime baskets and Mike
Mike O'Connell's only points of the game, four 
TOTALS 40-76 14-28 45 94 Sid Catlett and Collis Jones be-O'Connell added four clutchfoul shots, clinced NO's overtime victory. 
PERCENTAGES 53% gan to control the boards. The foul shots. 


Now in progress•••our annual 
APPAREL SALE 
of university-styled 
SUITS/SPORTCOATS/TOPCOATS 
This is the sale that many Notre Dame men wait for ... 
they know they can stock up on quality apparel at 
great savings. Come in, the selection is excellent. 
Savings of 
1/4 
1/3 
Your account is already open 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
Hockey, Fencing on page 7. 





