
Vol. V, No. 36 Serving the Notre Dame and Saii1t Mary's Coll_e~g_e_r_'l_l_,,_m_l_u_n_it.:...1_'___________T_h_u..;rs;.;d;.;a;.:.v__o_c_t~o.;;.b.;;.e..;r..;;;2..;;9..:.·...:1~9~7 o 
Trustees Commitee discusses changes 
by Ed Ellis 

This morning the Student that this promoted a "com­tion at ND was one of "diversity revision of the Dining Hall struc­The second area of concern at Affairs Committee of the Uni­munity atmosphere." He said and informality". The Krashna ture will be a step toward this today's meeting is the develop­versity Board of Trustees met the committee would propose a Administration hopes that goal. ment of a campus student center with leaders from the Student similar structure for the South 
based on the old Fieldhouse, Government, Graduate Student Dining Hall. which will be used by the Uni­Union, and student minority Once the sections were estab­versity Arts Council, LaFortune 
groups in a closed session to lished, Connor said, they should Student Center, and the current discuss a series of radical changes .be made available for groups to Psychology Building, soon to in student life, including pro­eat together on a reserved­become vacant when the psy­posals made by the new Com­section basis. chology department moves to mittee for Social Understanding He also proposed what is the Biology Building on the concerning the Dining Halls and known at other schools as North Quad. a student mall. This afternoon "family eating" where a group In LaFortune, the Committee the Trustees' Committee chaired seats itself at a table and two of for Social Understanding pro­by Dr. Thomas Carney, will hold the group members get the food poses an expanded Huddle­an upen session in the Center for for the group. restaurant on the first floor, a Continuing Education to discuss The committee also suggested student book-exchange on the student problems, complaints, more "special night" such as 
(Continued on page 8)

and suggestions with anyone "Itali an Night". "Chinese present. Night," and "Western Night." The morning presentation by He said these should be run by 
Parent's Council meets Saturday
the Undergraduate Student sections, so that more "diver­

Government will consist of the day's meeting is the introduction
sity" would be available in each Council and serve upon invita­
findings of the newly-formed of the new Chairman, Charles J.
hall. by Mary Kay Davy tion of the President of 
Committee for Social Under­Doughertyy father of Mary Su­
Also suggested is a program College. A wide geographical and 
The SMC Board of Director of
standing. According to the where meal cards could be used occupational range is sought by zanne Do!:Jgherty, Class of '72.
the Parent's Council will meet
committee's executive secretary, at both St. Mary's and Notre Sister M. Alma Peter, Acting
the selection committee. Tim Connor, the committee's Dame, and an arrangement The stated primary objectives President of the College, will
Saturday, October 31 for the 
first of its bi-annual meetings
report consists of proposals in where the Notre Dame Dining of Council include then speak to the directors. 
during the '70-'71 school ses-the 
three areas: renovation of dining Halls could be kept open all day Following her talk, the par­
sion. ''strengthening the bond between.
facilities, development of a for informal eating and the ents will be addressed by Sister
Approximately thirty parental St. Mary's College and the par­
student-oriented campus presentation of speakers and M. Immaculata, Dean of Stu­
couples comprise the Board. ents of its students, keeping par­
"nucleus", and establishment of social programs. dents, and Carol Henninger, Aca­
Members are the parents of full­ents alerted of the College's poli­
a student mall on the road from The committee also proposes demic Commissioner.Miss Hen­
time SMC students with tenure cies, plans and activities, and
Notre Dame to St. Mary's. of niger the
the use round tables as lasting as long as their daughters providing a means whereby par­will direct herself to 
Connor said that the commit­opposed to the long tables now question of SMC-ND coopera­
remain members of the SMC ents may transmit their ideas,_
tee proposes six major changes in use. tion. She will report on the
student body. opinions, and suggestions to the
in the Dining Halls. He noted Conner said the philosophy extent of the program so far,
They are selected from a College."
that the North Dining Hall was behind the approach of Student nominating committee of the First on the agenda of Satur-proposed considerations for divided into smaller sections and_ Government to the social situa-changes and what ·the future holds in regard to coeducation. The afternoon agenda is
Student Union funds-back into the halls 
headed by a discussion of the bv Bob Higgins ing. Acting on the same incentive, to be channelled back into the Humanistic Studies Program by 
4) A Hall Fellows program. the Hall Presidents' Council; halls, it should not be necessary Dr. Bruno Schlesinger, Chairman 
In an attempt to take advan­The first·three proposals have under the direction of recently­to assess each hall a sum of fifty of the Department. tage of the Krashna-Winings' already gone into effect, Weaver retired Executive Coordinator cents per member to pay for this 
Sister M. Raphaelita willcampaign promise to channel 

said, and are rapidly diminishing Tim Mahoney, has requested event, as was the case for last 
speak about admission policiesStudent Union funds back into the hall's funds. He feels that the $2000 for this year's An Tostal year. 

followed by Dr. Jack J. Detzler,the halls, Bob Weaver, President Weekend.

hall can show legitimate need for Senior Vice President addressingof St. Ed's Hall, in an unprece­the additional funds because it is Mahoney, emphasizill1( . that 
dented move, asked for a budget last year's An Tostal costs to­If the budget is cut, Mahoney himself to the topic of Academic
in real financial difficulty. He Cooperation with Notre Dame.
of $81 0 for what he terms "ne­also pointed out that he believed talled $2,500, made the request sees no alternative but to go The final report will be givencessities critical to the attain­to the Student Union because he back to the hall treasuries for
it is the function of the Student by Mr. Edward L. Recker, Vice­ment of a good community pro­Union to subsidize such commu­feels that enough students parti­the money. "This being one of President for Public Relationsgram in the hall this year." nitv~•rill'!:ntf!.rt activities. cipate in the An Tostal activities the finest weekends of the year, and Development. Mr. ReckerIn an interview Wednesday, to warrant Student Union sub­there is really no reason why we 
Weaver outlined a four-point intends to deliver a progress re­
sidy of the weekend. should not receive the $2000 program which St. Ed's hopes to Mahoney further stated that if from the students' own organiza­port on the "Program for the put into effect with its requested the students $14 activity fee is tion," Mahoney said. Seventies''. revenue: 
1) Paying off a $1 00 debt incurred by the hall food sales 



Russian hijack successful
last year. 

2) Improvements in the food SINOP, Turkey (UPI) -Two Turkish authorities yesterday morning." 
sales room for which the Univer­Russian students who said they questioned the students, who Turkish officials brought could "no longer live in the asked for asylum in Turkey. One
sity maintenance has charged meat, fresh fish, salad, vegetables 
the report said pilot Alc_xander Men­
$110. stranglehold regime" of and Turkish pastries from a rest­
chekov, 50, told Turkish author­
3) The introduction of an aca­Soviet Union hijacked a Soviet aurant and interrogated the fugi­demic program in the hall. So far airliner to Turkey Tuesday. It ities the hijackers threw a bag tives as they ate. this idea has taken the form of a was the second successful seizure Turkish officials said a search
over his head and threatened to faculty wine and cheese gather-of a Russian plane in 12 days. strangle him unless he flew to of the airliner produced no Turkey. 
weapons and one official source The twin engine, Czechoslo­said the pilot appeared uncertain vak made airliner was en route


Food proposal pleases Price 
whether to declare his intentions 

to the Soviet Crimiean Peninsula until he finds out whether hebe a hindrance to the students. the meals. However, he pointed port of Sevastopol on the Black
Mr. Edmund Price, director of will be extradited to the Soviet
He stated, "We are trying to cut out that this idea was researched Sea when it was seized. The
Food Services, yesterday voiced Union.
down lines by distributing stu­last year and it was fotmd that plane carried the students, Niko­was the second successful
general favor with the proposals It
dents." He noted that if a group the present sound system in the lai Ginlov, 20, and Vitali
of the committee for Social Un­hijacking of a Soviet airliner in a
of student wished to use a cer­South Dining Hall was incapable Pozdeyir, 21, and one other per­
derstanding concerning the little more than a week. On Oct.
tain dining hall all they need do of carrying music. son, Yuri Darbinov, 35, a work­
dining halls. However, he also 15, a father and his son seized a
is ask permission. In regard to the idea of er, officials said. 
expressed some doubts. Mr. Speaking about the proposal making food service available for Soviet Aeroflot AN24 turboprop
One Turkish official said the
Price felt that the ideas ex­

to divide the South Dining Hall take-outs (hall dinners and students told questioners they airliner with 51 persons aboard pressed were basically good but 
into smaller sections, Mr. Price cook-outs), Mr. Price was some­hijacked the. plane because "we to the Turkish city of Trabazon, lacked "groundwork." "They ar­said that he liked the idea but it what less enthusiastic stating, "It could no longer bear to live in 250 miles east of Sinop on the 
rived at some conclusions with­

would take extensive renovation would be difficult." He felt that the stranglehold regime of Soviet Black Sea Coast. They killed a out too much studying or 
to have it realized. Reflecting there was a great danger of this Russia and decided to seek our stewardess in the hijacking and groundwork," he said. upon the present shape of the privilege being, misused by the freedom." wounded three other persons. Mr. Price indicated that the dining hall he stated, "It does students. Food could be stored Turkish authorities have refused
Ginlov was first off the plane
idea of allowing students to use Soviet demands that the two be
have charm." or given to non-students. Mr. and told Turkish police, "We areeither dining hall at will was Mr. Price was also receptive to Price said "We would be glad to hungry, very hungry. We haven't extradited, contending the hi­unfeasible and would prove to the idea of having music during jacking was for political reasons.
cater if asked." eaten anything since 7 this 



Page 2 


Thursday October 29, 1970 
'Future ofEngineering' is seminar topic 
"The Future of Engineering" The seminar, designed to pro­will be discussed at the fourth mote interaction between indus­Industrial Associates Program try and the University in seminar at the University of examining particular problems, Notre Dame, according to Dr. will be held November 4 in the Frederick D. Rossini, vice presi­Center for Continuing Educa­dent of research and sponsored tion. Rossini inaugurated the In­programs. dustrial Associates Program last 
Nixon: Put America first 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. (UPI) -President Nixon ham­mered away on his put America first theme yesterday in a politi­cal swing through Florida. 
Nixon, addressing a St. Peters­burg audience before going on to Tallahassee, Fla., and Longview and Dallas, Tex., urged voters to put aside party labels and sup­port candidates who will back his policies aimed at an adequate defense for the country, a lasting peace in Vietnam and a halt in the rise of prices and crime. 
"These are not partisan mat­ters. Think of yourselves as 

Before: 
Americans," Nixon told his audience, shouting over a small but noisy band of detractors who shouted, "Get out now." 
"Whoever is President of the United States.. .is probably the most powerful man in the world," Nixon said, but added: "He can't do it alone. He isn't that strong. I need help." 
Nixon, attempting to pump fresh life into Republican chances in key Florida elections, was accompanied on St. Peters­burg trip by Gov. Claude Kirk and U.S. Senate candidate Wil­liam Cramer. 
year, with such member firms as Sherwin-Williams Co., Ford Motor Co., General Motors Corp., Eli Lilly Co., and W. R. Grace and Co. 
The ail-day conference will include five major addresses by engineers, biologists, computer experts and industry spokesmen. The talks are titled: 
--"Present Status of Engi­neering Education," by Dr. Joseph C. Hogan, dean of the College of Engineering. Hogan will discuss the history of en­gineering education, dwelling on· 
the innovations of the last five years and indicating where edu­cation must go to satisfy the needs of society. 
-"The Computer and the Fu­ture Engineer," by Dr. Bruce J. Morgan, assistant professor of civil engineering, Dr. Robert Betchov, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering and Dr. Henry C. Thacher, professor of computing science. The three will consider the dangers and 


During: 
Student Billing Service makes Sense! There's no reason why you shouldn't enjoy the convenience of making long distance calls from your dorm room phone al).d receiving a monthly 
• 

bill for your calls ... and yours only! 
That service is available right here, right now. Dorm residents may pick up their Student Billing Cards at the Indiana Bell Business Office. Talk it up. 

@ 

Indiana Bell 
benefits of computers, their part in engineering educaVon anrl theproper relationship between engineers and computer spec:ial-

Dr. Joteph Bopn 

ists. 
-"New Challenges for En­gineering," by Dr. Ralph E. Thorson, probessor of biology and Dr. James L. Massey, pro­fessor of electrical engineering. Thorson will discuss bioen­gineering possibilities for 2000 
A.D. while Massey will consider probing the infinite reaches of space and the infinitesimal realms of sub-atomic particles. 
--"Educating Engineers to 
Meet New Challenges," by Dr. John J. Uhran, Jr., associate professor of electrical en­gineering and Dr. Kenneth R. Lauer, chairman of the depart­ment of civil engineering. The two will suggest future engineers to work in multi-discipline research efforts, and will discuss the value of research, design, and laboratory work in engineering education. 
--"Industry's Total Expecta­tion for Engineers," by Joseph 
E. Higgins, assistant General Product Manager of the Linde Division of the Union Carbide Corporation. Higgins suggests that engineers should also be competent in management, and able to work well in group situ­ations. 
The Industrial Associates Pro­gram also offers member com­panies many services in addition to the regular seminars, inclu­ding access to the University's libraries, Computing Center, an­nual reports on research, and advice on consultational services. 
Last year three seminars were scheduled under the program, including "Pollution--Time for Action," "The Problem of Un­employment" and "Mass Trans­portation." 


The Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., provost of the University of Notre Dame, has been elected president of the American Aca­demy of Religion (AAR), the 
RMS 
SPECIALS 
..WHARFDALE LOUD SPEAKERS W40D WAS 94.50 !"OW 74.00 W60D WAS 129.95 NOW 99.00 W70D WAS 179.95 NOW 135.00 
* 1 ONLY -SCOIT CAS­SEIVER MODEL 2560 WAS 
339.95 NOW 289.00 1 ONLY -SCOTT 386

* 
RECEIVER WAS 349.00 NOW 289.00 *SHURE PHONO CART­RIDGESMODELS M5SE, M93E,~91E ~LIST PRIC 11rE XCELLENT SELECTION OF AM-FM STEREO 
RECEIVERS PRICED FROM $149.95 SEVERAL SPECIALLY PRICED 

"*SENNHEISER STEREO HEADPHONES 
MODEL HD414 29.95 THE REGULAR PRICE BUT VERY SPEC lA L 
a 
z 


RMS
AUDIO Phone 288-1681 ­1307 E. CALVERT 
OPEN 3-8 M-TH 
1-4:30 SUNandFRI CLOSED SATURDAY 

'--------------------------------------~ L~~~~~~~~~~~ 
largest professional society of religion in the United States. 
The election took place at the group's recent annual meeting in New York City, which took place jointly with Society of Biblical Literature and the Society for the Scientific Study of Religion, headed by Dr. William V. D'Antonio, chairman of Notre Dame's department of sociology and anthropology. 
Formed in 1963 as a successor to the National Association of Biblical Instructors, the 3,500-member AAR has the pur­pose of stimulating scholarship and fostering research in the complex of disciplines which constitute religion as an area of learning. 
Father Burtchaell, a specialist in biblical theology who holds a doctorate from Cambridge Uni­versity in England, served two years as chairman of Notre Dame's department of theology before his appointment as pro­vost in September. A 1956 grad­uate of· Notre Dame, he also holds degrees from the Gregor­ian University and the Pontifical Biblical Commission in Rome and the Catholic University of America. From 1961 to 1963 he was engaged in research at Ecole Biblique et Archeologique Fran­caise in Jerusalem, and he joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1966. 
Talk on Cuba 
Philip Webre, a recent Notre Danie graduate, will relate his experiences as a member of the Cuban "venceremos Brigade." Webre, who lived in Cuba for nine years before the Cuban revolution while his father was a manager of a sugar mill, returned to Cuba this September for six weeks, where he picked lemons and toured Cuba with four hundred other young Americans. Webre will relate his impressions of post-revolutionary Cuba in 
•room 127 of Nieuland Science Hall at 7:30 tonight. 


Page 3

Thursday October 29, 1970 71/E. OBSERJJER. 
Fallon finds Freshmen ••validly'' physically IH 

by Kevin McGill 
"This year's freshman class is pretty close in physical fitness to last year's," said Dr. Thomas W. Fallon, chairman of the depart­ment of physical education. He was speaking of the results in the 
Don Creehan ran the-440 in 50 seconds. 
Not everyone had as much prowess as these leaders. While 82 freshman were classified as outstanding, 275 were merely average, and 109 were rated poor. Dr. Fallon was confident They will be helped in these problems, and everyone will be given personal guidance." 

Besides the fitness test, every­one underwent a swimming test. 
Observer Insight 

275 of the freshmen were classified "Swimmers" using the standards of · the Red Cross Water Safety Program. 92 earned the title of "Skilled Swimmer." 
Although the freshman class did well on the tests, Dr. Fallon remarked, "If you would give 
"Out major purpose in physi­cal education is to reach the majority of students not gifted enough to play varsity sports We try to give every student basic skills and opportunities in a wide variety of activities so that they can hopefully find 
fitness test given to all feshmen last September. "I'd say that the average Notre Dame student is above the national norm." 
The tests were devised by the Armed Services, and according to Dr. Fallon they are very valid statistically. The most physically fit of all the frosh is Michael Martin who scored 464 out of 500 points. Michael Colleran and Bob Bennett placed second and third respectively. 
Richard Grogan did the most pushups, 90, and the most sit­ups, 93, in two minutes. In one minute Brian Brady executed 48 four-counts. Paul Unger toppe.d the class with 25 pullups, and 

Jury absolves Guard at Kent State 
KENT, Ohio (UPI) -The state attomey general asserted yesterday a grand jury report on the Kent State University shoot­ing deaths was not influenced by the fact a special prosecutor for the panel once served in the Ohio National Guard. 
"I don't see where it makes 

any  difference,"  said  Attorney  
General Paul Brown.  
The  grand  jury  absolved  

National Guardsmen of blame in the killing of four students but indicted 25 other persons. 
Brown said he would not have appointed Seabury Ford to aid the prosecution had he known about Ford's military back­ground. 
Ford was one of three prose­cutors appointed by Brown to 
J Keenan dead 
Mr. James F. Keenan, an alumnus and trustee of the University died yesterday in Fort Wayne Indiana. Mr. Keenan was the president of Keenan· Hotels, a corporation which nwned several hotels throughout t!~~ !lJidwest. Due to his generous contributions Keenan Hall, erected in 195 7, was named after him. 
FOUND: ONE BICYCLE 
INQUIRE 8248 
Typing wanted-theses, 
dissertations;· manuscripts. 
Experienced, accurate, reasonable. Can pick-up and deliver. Call Jean Motsinger 259-1304 
Do Your Christmas Shoppin .Now! 
$30 SCHIC!( COR}} LESS ELECTRIC RETRACTABLE 
RAZORS FOR ONLY $19.95!! THE CHEERLEADERS ARE 
STILL TRYING TO GET TO 
SOUTHERN CAL! CALL ~2 
Tne uoserver is publlsnea:d"ally during the college semester except 

I vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purcha~cf for $8 from The 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, 
Ind. 46556. Second class postage 
paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
however, that through participa­tion in the physical education program, many of the under­achievers would improve. 
Starting in November, Dr. Fal­lon hopes that voluntary extra classes can be established for those who scored particularly poorly in the testing. "Such a remedial program was very suc­cessful last year. It was geared on an individual level to the boy's needs. It was often the first time that many of the boys, having come from Catholic schools, had received any indi­vidual help in physical educa­tion. Many in this program will be overweight or underweight. 
aid the grand jury. 
Brown commented on reports Ford, cited for contempt .of court for commenting on the grand jury investigation, was a member of the I07th Cavalry in the 1920's. 
Members of_ Troop G, 107th Cavalry, stationed in nearby Ravenna, were among the troops who fired into a group of demonstrating students last May 4 on the Kent State campus. Four students were killed and nine were wounded. 
Glenn Frank, a Kent State geology professor who was criti­cal of the grand jury's report, also was cited for contempt of court. 
Ford and Frank pleaded guilty to the contempt charge and were freed on $500 bond each. The grand jury said "major responsibility'' for the student killings should be placed on the Kent State administration for its "permissive attitude." 
Ford and Frank, a witness before the grand jury, were prohibited from commenting on the report by a Portage County court order invoking a "gag rule" on everyone connected with the investigation. 
Ford was cited for contempt 

LA TEST IN POSTERS & THINGS AT COMMUNITY NEWSTAND 
We have met the enemy, andheisus! 
~-~ /~ ,.:..
,, 
... 

~·~ ~ 1,.;'..:~..:''...:."'...:.."...:.a<~:..'...:.':.:rt:..:'"...:.·'..:M...:.·"...:.'·.....:........:::....---------·-···-_···_·~---···-···-···_ __. 
COMMUNITY NEWSTAND 121 W. WASHINGTON SOUTH BEND 


The results indicate that almost one out of every four Notre Dame freshmen are non-swim­mers, and that they are not considered safe in the water. So far this year, they have been studying basic fundamental; of swimming. 
Many freshmen who con­sidered themselves tolerable swimmers were surprised at .the low scores they received. Dr. Fallon stated that while many have some basic knowledge and skill, they are often weak in certain strokes and will be given an opportunity to better their swimming ability. 
after an interview was published in the Akron Beacon Journal last weekend which quoted him as saying National Guardsmen 
should  have  "shot  all  the  
·oublemakers."  Ford  said he  
.Cas misquoted.  

Prel. ,,.., 
Dr. Elizabeth Fiorenza, assis­tant professor of theology at the University of Notre Dame, is the recipient of the Munster Univer­sity Faculty Prize for her doc­toral dissertation, "The Motive of Priesthood and Kingdom in the Apocalypse," according to an announcement by the mini­ster of education of the State of Nordrhein, Westfalen, Germany. 
Dr. Fiorenza joined the Notre Dame staff this year after serving as a teaching and research assis­tant in her native Germany. She had earlier received her diploma in theology at the University of Wurzburg and her bachelor de­gree at Miltenberg College. 
She is the author of three books and has contributed articles to Catholic Biblical Quarterly and Theology Revue. 
SENIORS! UNCERTAIN OF YOUR FUTURE? 
Consider the Marist Brothers Lay Volunteer Proaram 
Spend a year or two workin1 with JOUnl people 
CHOOSE YOUR FIELD: -Urban Problems -High ScVool Teaching -Guidance -Drug Programs, etc. 
CHOOSE YOUR COUNTRY -58 Countries In all 

Co111e listen to two Notre Da111e Cr•du•t•s now In the proar••= 4:30 Mon. Nov.2 Fisher H•ll Lounae 
For more information: Bruce McGuire 233 Fisher 
Unlwersity of Pittsl»urah Cr•du•te School of B•lness 
MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM -II MONTHS 
A re_presentatv e of the Graduate School of Business will be on campus to discuss graduate study in business at the Unir ersity of Pittsburgh with juniors and senior& in all department~ regardless of major field, who are interested in programs of study leading to the degrees of Master of Business Administration or Doctor of P:i1ilosophy. 
The school's representative will be on campus. 
·Friday, November 6 

For additional information and to arrange interviews 
please contact Mr. Vincent Raymond, Assistant Dean 
of Business, in the Hayes-Healy Center 
Penn. residents h•ve low tuitions F ellowshlps •v•ll•ble tor out-of-st•te students 
the test to seniors, I am sure you would find that they have de­teriorated. Hopefully, in four years a student should improve physically, but much of this physical maturity has gone down the drain." 
something the like and continue it throughout their four years. Few schools have the facilities that we have available to stu­rlents. Basically we want to show our students that physical acti­vity can be fun." · 



Page 4 

THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GLEN S. CORSO, Editor-in-Chief JOHN E. KNORR. Executive Editor 
BRUCE RIECK, Business Manager 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER ~. 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
SUAC's Failures 
As of today, the Student Union Academic Commission has failed to produce a politi­cally balanced selection of speakers. There are a myriad of excuses for the ideological rigidity of the policy. They are good excuses. They are interesting excuses. But they are not valid excuses. 
Conservative speakers cost more money than liberal speakers do. One is forced to wonder what the price of cheapness is. If it is necessary to grant SUAC a larger share of the Student Union budget, or for SUAC to limit the number of speakers it invites, in order to give students an oratorically balanced fare, then these steps should be taken. 
Liberal speakers are more popular than conservative speakers. Not true. The general philosophies liberals espouse are more popular here than the general philosophies of conservatives -all the more reason to procure conservative speakers. For if there is any purpose to an open speaker policy it is to spark debate, division: to set up a dialectic. One hardly does that by featuring speakers with which the campus is in ninety percent agreement. 
SUAC has turned full circle-from the Boston Celtics two years ago to Jane Fonda this year; all in the name of economy. The thing devolves to ridiculousness; eight thousand penny speakers, most saying the same thing. 
George McGovern, Ti Grace Atkinson, David Hawk, and Jane Fonda hardly compose a competitive lineup. The Brademas -Newman fiasco -in which Congressman John Brade­mas was invited to the campus but his opponent, Don Newman was not -has been compounded by SUAC's obstinate refusal to admit that the mistake had been made. The whole thing neither speaks well of the Student Union Academic Commission nor serves the students. 
The Observer strongly recommends that the Student Union Academic Commission re-examine its political speaker policy and attempt to establish another, more balanced one in its place. 

LEIIERS 
Letters to the Editor should newspaper. the Observer ran an to me fairly obvious that the be typewritten and double article in recent weeks stating reason that such psychological spaced. The Editor retains the that the best applicants were lost effects are achieved here but right to shorten any letter at his because of lack of financial aid, nowhere else is the unusually discretion. No letter can be or because Notre Dame was not stilted, artificial relationship be­
returned. Letters should be their first choice, which doesn't 
tween the sexes that exists here addressed to The Observer, Post say much for our academic repu­but nowhere else. Only co­Office Box 11, University of tation. The story did not even 
education will solve this. 

Notre Dame, Notre Dame, mention coeducation. 
Second, I not only read the

Indiana, 46556. Notre Dame, and all other 
admissions report, I wrote it.

universities, have their shares of 
Further Reflections Why is Notre Dame only a
idiots. Coeducation will not eliminate them. What coeduca­
second or third choice when it is tion will do is help the vast ranked eighth in the Gourman
Editor: 

majority of normal Notre Dame Report of American Colleges
Ed Ellis' article Reflections on students who would like to carry and Universities? I know fromPerversion, (Oct. 23) seems to be 
the latest in a series of stupid on mature relationships with my own experience that ND 's 
women, but cannot because of
statements that would have one reputation for celibate males has 
the all-male atmosphere of this
believe that Notre Dame is a driven friends of mine to such
University.

campus of sex perverts, and that institutions as Delaware, Dickin­
As for improving academic 
coeducation would immediately reputation, the only way we can son, Penn State and Penn Mor­solve all our social and sexual get better students is to improve ton Colleges (Chester, Pa.).
problems, with improved "aca­the school. The top schools in Third, co-education may notdemic excellence" as a bonus. 
the country, such as Harvard, improve Notre Dame academi­the impres­
Ed Ellis gives me Yale, Princeton, and Dartmouth, -::ally but it will make it a hell of
sion that he has never visited a 
are all at least 90% male. They 
z lot better place to live in. For

coeducational university. For 
don't seem to lack top students. 
ietails, see the following letter.

your information Mr. Ellis, guys 
Coeducation has nothing to do 
do gross out girls at other univer­Thanks for your comments.
with improving academic excel­
sities. What makes Notre Dame t<;d Ellis.
lence. 

unique is that this type of activi­
In the future, I hope that only·
ty rates a column in the Obse­Editor:
articles concerning the true as­
rver. I am engaged to a senior at A lot of boys are in a quiet,
pects of coeducation will appear 
the University of Maryland, and contemplative and lonely mood
in the Observer. In the long run, 
can assure you that she and her tonight. It is Friday night, our
I think this will be more bene­
sirlfriends have suffered their "big night" of the week. I went
ficial to the cause of making
share of verbal abuse. People do up to the quietest third floor at
Notre Dame coeducational. 

have keg parties at coeducational Keenan Hall I'd ever seen. This is
Sincerely yours,

schools, and guys do act asinine. the "Raggers" section, usually
John W. N. Hickey

What makes a coeducational 219 Farley the wildest on campus. To­college different is that the girls night-nothing. It was represen­1ct just as bad as the guys! tative of the mood on campus.
First, the element that gives
Perversion is accepted as normal The Editorial in Friday's Obser­rather than abnormal. Notre Dame its singular variety ver entitled "Reflections on Per­Also, Mr. Ellis claims that the of perversion is not that people version" summed up the reasons. 
admission office loses its best "gross out," but that the people A couple of guys discussed the applicants because ND is all at whom the actions are directed "learning" atmosphere here at male. He should read his own become "grossed out." It seems Notre Dame. We knew why it is 
Thursday October 29, 1970 
DAVE KRASHNA 
Student Government 
Priorities 
The student government year is about half over, and the 
programs I have been working on are now starting to take shape. 
A number of the smaller, but certainly important things we 
hoped for last spring are now reality. Examples are the renovated 
huddle with extended hours, the book co-op and ticket office, 
and the new "Over the Hill" night programs, A lot of this wor~ 
has been done through Student Union in response to our 
platform in last spring's campaign. But I hope to report to you on 
our accomplishments so far at a later date. 
Now we in student government are shifting our energies to 
longer range projects that will have a more permanent effect on 
the university. I see three major programs emerging --they deal 
with social life, the University Forum, and aid to minority 

students programs. I will try to briefly outline these programs for 
you now. 

Social Life: Last year, Mark and I talked about the need for a more casual atmosphere at Notre Dame. We have now created a tri-partite commission to study the nature of social problems here and to formulate possible sol\ltions. The committee includes Notre Dame and SMC students, Reverend James Sheedy and Reverend Ernest Bartell, Professors Richard Bizot and Kenneth Featherstone, and a number of other concerned members of the community. The group can study the possibilities of a new or renovated student center, and an .arts center, and will agitate for a quicker realization of co-education. 
Aid to Minority Students: The administration brags that 26% of its financial student aid goes to minority students. But if the financial aid pot was increased considerably, only 20% could be used for the minorities, with more money in aid available to everyone. Here's one area where University priorities have to be changed. Money is needed for minority recruitment, financial aid, and programs like Black Studies, and Chicano and Black Orientation. The question is whether the university is going to continue to talk and not to act. 
University Forum: More than a year ago Father Hesburgh created the University Forum as a body to reflect on the problems and the goals of our University. All factions of the University were to be represented. The whole scope of Notre Dame's life was to be considered. Unfortunately, the Forum 
never got beyond the concept of "Christian University". Certainly th1s top1c 1s s1gmucant, but m the meantime the path of the University into the future is being directed without any serious community involvement in the decision-making. Student Government will urge that the University Forum be converted into a planning body for the University. It's time that all ·egments of the community became involved in plotting Notre Dame's priorities -from buildings to academics. These briefly are my goals for the rest of the year. I hope to report to you on each of these programs more completely in later columns. 
such a "learning'' atmosphere: 
Dame. And it hurts. You have a studying is the only thing to do party for girls and boys-and here on weekends besides getting there are no girls. And you bum dr.unk. One of my friends had 
and drink around with the boys.

been given another excuse from 
You have a lot of fun. But it's a girl he's been trying· to take no good ... out for several weeks. He won­A Typical Notre Dame man. dered if the St. Mary's girls ever feel a little bit of sorrow or pity 
for the typical Notre Dame stu­dent-especially the underclass­man. Every once in a while we'd 
Night Editor: Jim Graif

hear a girl's laugh in the dis­
Layout: Jim Farrington

tance, and it saddens a guy to hear a girl laugh at your jokes, to 
Layout: Joe Abell, Joe Anderson Headlines: Dan Nye

see the smile on her face, to look 
Night Controller: Harold Taegel

into each other's eyes; a lot of guys are missing this part of life-and not voluntarily-as they "get a good education" at Notre 

~T~h~u~r~sd~a~y~O~c~t~o~b~e~r~2~9~·~1~9~7~0-----------------------------------~~~~~~()~---~----~---------------=~--------------------~P~a~ge~5--­
Dove Lammers 

••Not with a bang, but a ... '' 

"I have so much to do, I think I am going to sleep. ''Savoyard proverb 
Last year at Notre Dame, hardly a day went by without someone proposing a political adion. The trustees, Dow-CIA, campus rascism, resistance to the draft, and the Vietnam war were all issues that catharsized the campus. The campus that gave Allard Lowenstein a ten minute standing ovation cannot now recruit enough people to fill a school bus to assist his faltering campaign. 
Why the drastic change? 

Many people are saying that the cam­pus activists were "burned out" by last 
spring, that the frustrating lack of re­
sponse to massive student protests m_ade 

Luther Allison's "party" was six days ago, but what the hell, it was the greatest. "Well she's comin' round the mountain .. 
political activity seem meaningless. "The 
students reached for the levers of power 
in the nation, and the elite laughed," said 
one professor. 

The loss of faith in the standard forms 
of political activity --voting, campaign­
ing, leatletting, marching -is widespread 
across the nation, from Boston to Califor­
nia, among young and old. The swing in 
the adult nation toward non-think, 
fear-dominated politics is matched by the 
cynicism and resignation of the students. 
It is more than understandable that 
students react against the vulgar manipu­
lation of the politicians, both liberal and 
conservative. The anti-personal manipu­
lation and image-making that appears 
inevitable in mass politics is pointed to by 
ex-activists that shrug, "I'm not into 
politics anymore." 

And while it is true that the awareness of the students and faculty vastly in­creased last year, the elitism, backbiting, and personal tensions of last ;pring that were inherent by-products leave many people sceptical of mass movements like the strike of last spring. 
The extreme psychic tension of intense political activity has made reality almost unbearable for many. The use of hard drugs is at least twice as high as last year. Drug use is seen as a political action because it is illegal, and because one 
leaves the America of Nixon far behind while "high.." The political mass move­ments of last spring were followed by the drug and rock concerts of the summer; while not exactly alternatives to the political system, they are seen as a "fun" way of forgetting about it. 
Also, the calendar change has made this a difficult semester for most, as professors cram the same amount of reading and work into a semester less than four months long. Father Hesburgh has said to reporters that Notre Dame is and unhappy despair. 

In the next week, three alternatives to the present malaise will be described. The first is a story about a Notre Dame graduate who cut cane in Cuba and embraced revolutionary Marxism. The second response to the status quo is the formation of a Christian community house by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students on South Bend's West side. The third alternative is a proposal for a revised form of democracy that would demand extensive participation by the electorate in an effort to reduce the power of the American elite. 
die; and all the resources of the Unreal 
City had organized against his death wish: 
ambulances, patrol cars, fire boats down 
on the river, and a small army of cops. 
The boy's problem was this: he had 
quarreled with his only friend, another 
fellow of twenty, and he felt there was no 
one else in the world who loved him 
enough to make life worth living. El 
Gordo had participated as an observer in 
one of the eight millions stories of the 
Naked City; it was wretched, pathetic, 
and deviant, and it sent him, still un­
buttoned and non-zippered, home to his 
rectory in tears. He went back to his 
church, a fat man touched by loneliness, 
about to say early Mass for lonely people 
in a lonely city, where alienated brothers 
live heaped together as joyless as ants. 
Often, Notre Dame seems like a suburb of the Unreal City, sharing with it the contemporary paradox of the lonely crowd. The campus seems very much a 
part of an idiot world, overcrowded enough to burst the seams of the stato­shpere, where there is never enough human warmth to quiet all the hearts wretched with isolation, and restless minds constantly fret themselves into dilemmas of drink, drugs, breakdown, and rage that cries against heaven. Among current suicides, even youngsters in the grade schools, psychiatrists tell us, are destroying themselves as an alternative to belonging to no one as a cherished lamb­-child. In dorms on both sides of the Dixie Highway, students are running into situations where all the signs seem to read: "Lamb-children in need of cherish­ing should not apply here." 
El Gordo eventually got to meet the boy from the Bridge. The encounter occurred this summer in a New York funeral parlor. Death was due to an over-use of narcotics, the undertaker said. The body had gone several days undis­covered in a shabby room off Riverside Drive. It was another couple of days before any family could be found who would claim the body. But, the under­taker said, that is not an uncommon 
situation, these days, in the morgues of the Unreal City. 


Suicide 

In 1967, I was assigned for the summer to a church in upper Manhattan, about two blocks from the George Washington Bridge. It was a parish in transition: part Irish ghetto, part Spanish enclave, with a steadily growing number of immigrants from Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic. The rectory was surrounded by bodegas, carnicerias, shamrock saloons, and tenement houses. One stepped im­mediately out of the front door, onto a stoop, into a constantly passing, sidewalk parade of handsome, dark-eyed children; young adult blacks; and thick-brogued harps fifty years over from the Galway coast. Among the Spanish folk of the neighborhood, I was commonly known as El Gordo, "the fat one." 
On the morning of July 16, I was awakened, as the priest on duty, by the police. There was a jumper over at the bridge, they said, threatening suicide. Would the Father please come to help argue with the guy? 
It was the kind of situation that a seminarian dreams of. Young astronauts anticipate the moment they will land among galaxies never touched by visits from the moon; young actors look for­ward to the evening they will star as Lear. Novices in religion expect their fulfill­ment in scenes of redemptive drama at spots quite remote from the teas in the rectory parlor. However, I never expected to be invited to shinny up the cables of my own mighty bridge in a ministry to some soul, perhaps an anguished atheist, who might be awaiting salvation from his perch among the pylons of the George Washington. 
So, on the morning of July 16, it was El Gordo -spiritually booted and spurred and ready to ride--to the rescue. In a matter of minutes, with buttons loose and zipper~ unattended, I appeared, like 
the Holy Name Society's Don Quixote, 
among the cops on the Bridge. 
Among the roar of cars that pass over 
from Jersey tu New York in the early 
morning, El Gordo was more of a road­block perilous to traffic than he was a comfort to the perishing. He came closer 
calm this year and that the library is filled every night (which is true). Yet it seems incorrect to say that the campus is calm when outward rage has become rancorous cynicism, when the desire to engage and reform the society becomes despair and disillusionment, when heightened con­sciousness is replaced by a drugged euphoria. 
Where have the hopes and energies of these disillusioned "activists" gone? In California, many people said that "Europe is where its at." And many people here seem to place their hopes in joining back-to-the-land communes in Arizona, Oregon, and Washington, gener­ating a system of counter-values as an alternative to the prevailing mores. In California, many people join together and live in school busses, traveling from city to city. (Remember the thousands of youth who were turned away at the Alaskan border last summer?) 
The hall parties are more frantic this year, and rectors report that drinking in the halls is heavier than in the past (remember Fr. Amen getting bashed on the head by a beer mug after a football game?). And of course, while the political situation becomes more problematic, we can a! ways turn to football victories and sports spectaculars to distract us. 
Vietnamization' has de-fused many of the young who are only moderately disaffected by the government, even though we are killing more Asians as we increase our bombings on the North Vietnamese. And of course the lottery has taken the energy out of some of those men who are "blessed" with a number above 200 or so. 
But it is still my conclusion that the quietism of this and other campuses this year is not a healthy, peaceful, calm. The more alienated and troubled youth are turning to drugs or violence or to a deep 

to going home with his tail, quite literal­ly, in his hands than he did to gathering stars for his crown of glory. But as a groovy place for the apostolate, that bridge-setting was superior to every fan­tasy known to seminaries but the blonde­on-the-skyscraper. scenes in the final moments of King Kong. 
A slim youth, about twenty, balanced 
. himself like a tight-rope walker on the outer rail of the sidewalk. Sporadically, he shouted warnings to a group of twenty policemen to keep their distance; other­wise, he said, he would jump. Behind him, the spires of mid-town Manhattan were silhouetted against the pink tlush of the morning sky. Underneath, the waters of the majestic Hudson swept outward to the sea. Overhead was all the grace, poetry, and technical mystery that cling to· the superstructure of a mighty bridge as part of its essential miracle. It was a scene worthy of the death of kings; but it seemed intolerable that one skinny kid 
\ should perish in the glory of that dawn. For an hour and a half, stratagems of , rescue were plotted and defeated. Finally, in a superbly timed move, the boy was distracted into an exchange of insults with a group of cops on his right; instantly, another group of cops moved in to grab him from the left. I have seen the New York police in action in a number of emergency situations; I have seen the Tactical Police Force, white-helmeted, tough, with clubs in their hands, disperse a crowd of a thousand people from a City park. I had not known that cops could be so gentle as they were with that boy whom they had to wrestle to the ground and handcuff until his delivery at Belle­vue Hospital. A priest could not touch the sacrament with greater reverence than the way the police handled that struggling body, seemingly so anxious to tling itself into the garbage of a modern river. For El Gordo, that fat, comic creature who stumbled flat-footedlv among the re~cue squad, as big as the rest of the assembled crowd and nearly as broad as the bridge, it was not an hour of charis­matic service, and ne didn't even care. A 
twenty year old youngster had wanted to 
Page 6 7HB O.&rDWU. Thursday October 29, 1970 
T:le Reason Why

Letters to the Editor 
Editor: 
If ever a Notre Dame 'man' should ask why St. Mary's girls snub them, I'd appreciate it if 

Observer Unifies Campus: Abortion letters 
(I) 
you showed them this Jetter. 

by the appearance of an adver­ing an abortionist's name for an student opmwn at a Catholic All of these events happened Editor: tisement for an abortion referral immediate abortion more than university, has a higher responsi­to my two roommates and my­want to thank you ever so agency in the Observer, a cam­amply indicates probable per­bility than that of a publication self in the course of two days. pus-oriented paper, is a gros~ A punch in the stomach at
much for publishing that New sonal consequences. reflecting a purely secular view 
understatement. The appearance Along a different line, there the game and having been haras­
York Abortion Ad yesterday. of the world. It has a duty, Gosh! When I discovered that I of such an add and the style in seems to be a movement ot through its ad acceptance policy sed before the game by a strange know written simplifies about not
was pregnant, I did not which it was completely destroy any diginity as well as its editorial stance, to boy why we would 
where to turn. But thanks to the question of abortion to a and value attributed to women. oppose any attempt to promote loan him one of our ID's for his your thoughtful ad, all will be point of absurdity and implies Not even considering the at­the availability of abortion. HTH, were among the minor fine again in a few weeks. We are that the process of abortion in­titude of the audience and the If the Observer wants to events of the weekend. 
0 

so lucky to have a newspaper volves nothing more than: inaccurate reporting of Ti Grace attain real professionalism, it The first major encounter 
with a wonderful philosophy l. Being less than 24 weeks Atkinson's talk, and the remark should meet its responsibility as happened when a Notre Dame 
like yours. Big city papers would pregnant that an upcoming speaker a news .#organ on a Catholic 'gentleman' intercepted me on 
2. Having transportation to

publish those kinds of helpful "typified what a woman should campus and refuse to provide a my way back from the shuttle, ads; they say that abortion is the state of New York since, be and do today ... she's just ig­forum for encouragement of at about two in the morning. On illegal here in Indiana, and that fortunately, there are no re­norant," the now-illustrated abortion, an aberration histori­the pretense of desiring to know some thought should be given to sidency requirements. Cinema "Arts" Theatre ads not cally and morally repugnant to the location of a fire escape, he 
this fact. That is really stupid -If one reads the article care­only epitomize but furthermore civilized people. proceeded to grab my arm and I'm glad you didn't bother to fully, the word "counseling", .contribute to the consideration Sincerely, pull me behind Holy Cross Hall . think of that. I think that they which appears in the title, could With anger· and mustered
Richard J. Wall, jr.
of-woman solely as a sex object.
are also trying to maintain some have been omitted. For the bulk 404 Fisher strength, I yanked myself free
Censorship of course is not the 
crazy stand on the sanctity of of the advertisement concerns and ran like hell. 
solution; the lack of it though,
life. How trivial! After all, my the physical process with little Secondly, one of my lucky
must be balanced by good taste. 
abortion will be no big thing, mention of the moral decision roommates was so fortunate to
In all, there must be a con­
wh~ch must be made. meet four men, who drunkenlywill it? Your ad said it would be sideration for the total picture {V)
nice and safe and simple. I can We hope that in the future, escorted her and her sister, with­
of the male-female relationship
call for information about it as the Observer staff, before print­out being asked to do so, from
if we are ever to obtain a de­easily as I can call downtown to ing similar ads, will weigh the sirable and worthwhile living sit­Editor: the librarv. These 'men' 
check on the time of a movie. consequences. casually pushed each other into
uation at St. Mary's and Notre 
You, dear editor, opened my Dame. To say that, despite the them and then went on their eyes and made it all so clear for Sincerely, chivalrous way. 
legend on page one, you have 
me! This New York agency Arin Siebenaller, Drug Last but not least (and this
Ann Marie Tracey performed a disservice to the 
promises "professional assis­Commissioner St. Mary's College one is the best one of all guys),
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's
tance." That means that I can Kathy Eglet, Sex Education my second roommate had a real
College community by running
count on true guidance -they'll Commissioner run in with one of you 'gents'.
on page 4 of your issue of 
. present the cons as well as the She was innocently crossing a
October 26 an advertisement for 
pros about the abortion, won't (IV) road at St. Mary's when she saw
New York abortion mills would 
all, wouldn't a car coming in the_distance. It
they? After you an understatement declining
have published the ad if you did be was far enough back where she
toward ineffability. If your own 
. not know ahead of time that (Ill) could walk at a normal pace and 
l!earts and minds are devoid of 
these men were good men in­Editor: the spirit animates get to the other side safely. Our
which this 

terested in my welfare and not At last report, Notre Dame gentleman driver, as intelligent
Editor: community, if your personal
in a cut of the money I will be was still a Catholic university. As as he is, put a little speed into it 
The Observer's recent at­outlook is truly so bankrupt that 
paying. Yes, truly "professional a consequence, its organizations so he could scare her. He had 
tempts to single-handedly defeat the only problem connected 
assistance," with doctors whose and publications should reflect planned on stopping right in 
any sincere attempts for cooper­with abortion you see lies in 
competence you have already this fact. front of her, however it didn't 
ation between St. Mary's and disseminating information as to
I find it hard to understand, work. He misjudged and hit her. 
investigated before you printed 

Notre Dame through irres­where one can be had, then good 
why I not therefore, how the Observer can She was knocked down, slightly
the ad. That is am ponsible journalism have been taste and a healthy deference 
afraid! accept an advertisement from injured and greatly shaken up.
little short of awe-inspiring. The toward the convictions and be­
And most important of all, I the Aboi-tio n Information Our gentleman driver got
back page of Monday's (Oct. 26) liefs of this community might out 
Agency and still remain in har­of the car and said "Ha, ha, 1want to congratulate you for 
paper was enough to dishearten have 0 stayed your hand. Since 
tramping down those old fogey mony with the ideals and spirit your hand was not stayed (and just meant to scare you a little." 
anyone with hopes for finally

ideas of morality on this issue! of a truly Catholic institution. As he laughed my roommate sat 
doubtless it was extended palm
making progress between the Official Catholic teaching un­there and thought how tunnySome clods think that this Notre upward), your editorial policytwo sexes here.
Dame/St. Mary's is a Christian equivocally condemns willful it was. In fact she became 
Initially, cleverly located next can only be described as unin­
community dedicated to certain abortion as murder-despite the hysterical at the thought of what
formed by faith, moral sense andto an article about co-education
principles. Hah! You showed sophisticated, antiseptic method would have happened u ms
elementary good manners. Mywas an advertisement for an a­brakes had failed. 
them! Now no one can tell vUr employed and the euphemism
bortion referral service pro­eye drops down the odious 
school paper from any other used to describe it. The fact that So if all of you men from 
mising "immediate registration column to find the hotbreathed 
paper in the U.S. Isn't that the Observer is hard-pressed to across the road ever wonder why 
into available hospitals." The claim that a skin flick you also 
great? Hail to our wonderfully meet the costs of its publication you never get any dates, just sit 
ethical question is irrelevant advertise makes Dante's Inferno 
objective Observer for putting or recognizes a responsibility to back and wonder when the last 
here. The crucial issue is not the look like a tea party. The total
those inhibiting Christian prin­present both sides of an issue time was that you ever did any­
morality of abortions; it is how­vulgarity of that remark is woe­
ciples back in their place!• does not jMstify its acceptance of thing that comes under the cate­
ever, the incredibility of pro­fully in place in your pages.
A modern St. Mary's Senior an ad promoting and disseminat­gory of behaving like the men 
moting a "simple" solution to a :ng information on a practice you're supposed to be.

(II) complex emotional and psycho­Sincerely,
clearly antipodal to Church Truthfully,
logical problem. A phone call at Ralph M Mcinerny 
Editor: . teaching. DON'T CALL US WE'LL
3 a.m. by an hysterical girl seek-The Observer as a Professor of Philosophy
To say that we were surprise( molder of CALL YOU 
GOING TRICK or TREATING THIS WEEKEND?? 
COME TO ''AMERICA ,, ••• FRIDAY AND SATURDAY NIGHTS 
ENJOY .. MEL TIN G. POT 
8:30 pm til ,
• 
I.)'. 





Thursday October 29. 1970 THE OBSERVER. Page 7 
RalphStepaniak-pride is ··a shutout 

by Terry Shields 
Observer Sports Editor 

Ask Ralph Stepaniak if Army's field goal against Notre Dame that broke a string of eleven shutout quarters bothered the defense. You don't really have to wait for an answer. His very expressionable face con­torts into a pained look. "Yes, that was a very disappointing moment," he says. 
Even though ND was winning the game ~y 30 points and showed no sign of weakening, "Stepaniak's response to the ques­tion was a true measure of the entire defense's attitude to an opposing score. This is only one way that the 6-2, 196-pound junior from Alpena, Michigan, exemplifies the defense; there are quite a few other ways that he and that unit are associated. Ralph plays cornerback in the 4-4-3 defense used by the Irish. His job is the same as that of Clarence Ellis. "What I do is 
watch the zone on the opposite side of the field from Clarence," 
explains Ralph . "We're responsi­ble for the zone on the side about ten yards from scrimmage and longer. He usually watches the fastest receiver from the opposition because he's a little quicker than I am." 
Some people might feel a lit­tle slighted to be playing in the shadow of a man like Ellis. He usually wins the headlines for the defense and deservedly so. 

This doesn't seem to bother Stepaniak: "Are you kidding? Why, I enjoy playing next to Clarence. With him out on the field I can feel a little more, relaxed before the games. He takes the pressure off because I know he's covering the toughest man on the other team. There­fore, I can concentrate and do my job better. His attitude and ability are tremendous and he deserves all the credit he gets, sive back for the Irish, Stepaniak takes his school work seriously too. He is majoring in manage­ment in the College of Business Administration. He hopes to work in a business firm or per­haps start a business of his own. 
Ralph lets his Northern Michi­gan environment influence his outside interest. "I enjoy hunt­ing," he says. "The area around Alpena is very nice and it's relaxing to go outside and hunt up there." 
Stepaniak is a hunter on the grid-iron, as well-one of the most fierce tacklers on the team. 
He has broken up more than one enemy completion attempt with a driving tackle. 
But Ralph also recognizes the mental and emotional aspects of the game. He says insightfully, "This year we seem to be a lot closer group than before. Last season there were five sophs starting and the seniors on the squad already knew their jobs. It was hard for both groups to work as a unit. Now everyone is pulling together. We truly be­lieve that we're the best team in the country and we would like to prove it." 

Just for the record 
compiled by Mike Pavlin 

After a highly successful first half of the season, the Irish have kept pace with the record book. Nationally, Notre Dame is first in total offense and fourth in rushing, while Tom Gatewood leads all receivers and Joe Theismann ranks fifth in total offense. 
On the lists of Top Ten career leaders, Theismann is currently third in Passing (based on completions) and third in Total Offense. Gatewood is already the number two ranking receiver and Scott Hempel is ninth in Scoring. The newest member on the all-time Irish list is Denny Allan, who now ranks tenth in Kickoff Returns. 
TEAM--SEASON 

1.) Pass Completions -14 7, 74 2.) Lowest% Intercepted-4.4, 4.,1 3.) PAT%-.942, .956 4.) 2-Pt. Conversions Made--3, 2 5.) Safeties-2, 1 6.) Rushing Attempts-663, 369 7.) Passing Yards-2105, 1104 8.) Pass Yds./Game-210.5, 220.8 9.) Touchdown Passes-18, 9 l 0.) Pass Completion%-.583, .612 II.) Total Offensive Plays-909, 484 12.) Total Offensive Yards-5044, 2667 13.) Total Offensive Yds./Game-504.4, 533.4 14.) First Downs by Rushing --I 71, 86 
INDIVIDUAL--SINGLE GAME 
1.) (Record Tied) Touchdown Pass Receptions -Tom Gatewood 3 
INDIVIDUAL--SEASON 

l.) Pass Attempts-210, Joe Theismann 113 2.) Pass Completions -116, Theismann 70 3.) Completion%-.589, Theismann .619 4.) Lowest% Intercepted-3.5, Theismann 3.5 5.) Passing Yards-2062, Theismann 1037 6.) Touchdown Passes -16, Theismann 9 7.) Total Offensive Plays-308, Theismann 176 8.) Total Offensive Yards-2069, Theismann 1252 9.) Touchdowns Responsible For-21, Theismann 11 1 0.) Pass Receptions -60, Tom Gatewood 44 11.) Reception Yards -1114, Gatewood 679 12.) Touchdown Pass Receptions-9, Gatewood 5 13.) Pat's by Kick Made-41, Scott Hempel 22 14.) Points by Kick-61, Hempel31 
INDIVIDUAL--CAREER 

1.) (New Record) PAT's Attempted --Scott Hempel 117 2.) (New Record) PAT's Made -Hempel 108 3.) (Record Tied) Field Goals-Hempel 13 4.) PAT%-.914, Hempel.923 5.) Touchdown Passes-28, Joe Theismann 24 6.) Completion%-.567, Theismann .579 7.) Yds/Pass Attempt-8.38, Theismann 8.53 8.) Total Offensive Plays -731, Theismann 592 9.) Total Offensive Yards-4738, Theismann 3871 10.) Total Performance Plays -751, theismann 610 11.) Total Performance Yards-4833, Theismann 3983 12.) Touchdown Pass Receptions--16, Tom Gatewood (a junior) 13 13.) Passes Broken Up --19, Clarence Ellis (a junior) 16 
TEAM --GENERAL 

1.) Most Consecutive Games Scoring (incl. Cotton Bowl) -4 7, 46. 
, 

Vols, Irish seek first win 
maybe more." 
Stepaniak is a rarity in the Irish lineup. He .was recruited as a defensive back and he has played there since his freshman year. Many athletes are recruited for one position but might end up at a number of spots before Coach Ara · Parseghian and his assistants are satisfied with their performance. "Coach Paul Shoults did the active recruiting of me," Ralph recalls. "In high school, I played linebacker but I guess they thought I had enough quickness to make it at defensive back." 
The hardest problem that has presented itself to Ralph was simply learning the NO defense. "In practice before the games my sophomore year," Ralph says, "Coach Shoults kept re­minding me of the little things to look for and what to expect in certain situations. I really didn't pay much attention then. Once I got on the field, in the real thing, I kept trying to re­member everything he had siad. It was very helpful." 

Another helpful part of the learning process was the advice of former NO linebacker Larry Shumacker. "Larry really helped in little ways. He always kept up my confidence even if I would get beat on a particular play. This may have been more help­ful than anything else," Ralph explains. 
Like Ellis, Stepaniak feels the toughest receivers to cover are the ones that are exceptionally quick. Ralph notes, "The big tight ends aren't that much of a problem because the linebackers usually jam them up pretty well. 
The toughest rn-a~ -f fu~ed -Ia~ year was that guy from Southern Cal, Bob Chandler. He was in­jured against us but he was still hard to stay with." 
Besides playing a lot of defen-


by Vic Dorr 

last week and probalJIY will not The Notre Dame freshmen,Observer Sportswriter 
see any action on Saturday. His who will also be seeking their place will be filled by Hugh first triumph, have the personnel Coach Rex Dockery will be Barbee. Barbee has not carried to stick with the Vols. They " flashing some impressive creden­the football a single time, but his must, however, play four good
tials when he brings his Tennes­see Freshman Team to South coaches believe that he can do <j.l!a!'t~r:s Qf footbalL Against the job. David Somerville, a 6-3 Michigan State, the Irish sput­
Bend Saturday. The Baby Vol­wingback, will round out the tered and stumbled for an entireunteers handed the Irish frosh a starting backfield. The Volun­half before coming to life in the l 0-7 defeat last year. This teer backs will do their work final two periods. Just as a slowseason, behind ·a powerful offen­behind an offensive line popu­first half was fatal against thesive unit, and a defense that has lated by 6-5, 240 pound types. Spartans, it could also spellboth size and speed, they hope Wide receiver Emmon Love and· doom against Tennessee. Given ato turn the trick again. 

tight end. Steve Chancey will be large enough lead, the Vols may the primary targets for the be hard to catch. .Different Type QB's Tennessee passer. Both are proven receivers. Placekicker 
Must Game For Both

The Tennessee attack is pos­David Harper rounds out this sibly the strongest that the arsenal. Saturday's contest, then, will Notre Dame defense will face all be something of a "must" game year. Two quarterbacks of con­Proven Defense for both teams. Tennessee has trasting styles will direct the yet to win. They have come very Volunteer offense. Ed The defense boasts a proven Close on two occasions, but com­McDougal, an accurate passer front four and a talented array ing close is hardly any consola­who played on the national of linebackers. One thing that tion. Then, too, the Vols are · ,t: championship high school team, cannot midway through their ••.
Tennessee boast about, 1970 will probably start, but he will · '
r

however, is their record thus far. schedule, and must claim a win be pressed by Chip Howard, a They are 0-2, having dropped over the Irish if they expect to ~· ·~ slick operator with a multitude close decisions to the Kentucky show a winning slate for their J of talent. freshmen (19-14), and to the efforts this season. Notre Dame 
"They're as different as night Vanderbilt yearlings (24-20). and Coach· Denl)y Murphy are in ··-~ and day," said Dockery, prior to While their record would seem a similar situation. The NO ~ the Tennessee season opener, to contradict their talent, the squad, having already dropped • ril_ "but both are effective. I fact is that the Baby Vols have the decision to Michigan State, [' 
wouldn't be afraid to go with heJ<l impressive leads in each of must win both of their remain-either one of them." The Vol's their first two contests, only to ing games in order to reverse last ;i 
attack also features Haskei Stan­see them wiped out by fourth year's 1-2 record. ,? back, a tailback whose running quarter rallies. Saturday will cer­Kickoff time is 1:30. If the -~. style blends power with speed. tainly see the Tennessee fresh· Notre Dame offensive unti can 
Bill Rudder, Tennessee's out-· men out to snap the fourth-quar­gain early momentum and confi-• standing fullback, suffered a ter jinx which has plagued them dence, it promises to be quite a knee injury against Vanderbilt thus far. game. 

·-----------­
-~ 

Page 8 THE OBSERJJER. Thursday October 29, 1970 
First Lady campaigns for Republican Roudebush 

INDIANAPOLIS (UPI) -The nation's first lady braved rain and drizzle yesterday and went on a hand-shaking tour of Cen­tral Indiana in an effort to raise support for Republican candi­dates, primarily Rep. Richard L. Roudebush, who is challenging Democratic Sen. Vance Hartke. 
Mrs. Pat Nixon appeared in Indianapolis, Greenwood and Anderson before her scheduled flight back to Washington at night. 
She's the latest in a series of prominent national Republicans to campaign for Roudebush. 
In addition to Roudebush, she campaigned for Reps. William G. Bray and David Dennis, two Republicans seeking re-election. 
Roudebush At Airport Roudebush, his wife, and Gov. and Mrs. Edgar D. Whit­comb were~ among the top­ranking Indiana Republicans on hand at Indianapolis Weir Cook Airport to greet Mrs. Nixon. Mrs. Nixon wore a light brown tweed suit with a hem two inches below the knees. She was guest of honor at a private reception at the down town Indianapolis Atkinson Hotel, given by national officers 

of Psi Iota Xi sorority, of which stage. 
African aHifudes towards death 
Last night in a lecture on African attitudes towards death, Dr. Rita Cassidy contended that Africans "make a distinction be­tween a good death and a bad death." Contending that there were different attitudes of death that were unique to the indi­vidual' tribes, Professor Cassidy noneth.eless suggested that the distinztion was one of number of general attitudes common to all Africans. 
Cassidy said that Africans do not consider death as an end to life but rather a metamorphis into a different state. 
"A good death," Professor Cassidy said, "would be one from natural cause or one ac­
,. cording to ritual." A bad death,. in contrast, would be a sudden unexpected one or one from a disease such as leprosy. "Sudden deaths are often indicative of a 
Wr;ters, enroll 
Writers' Workshop, open to ND and SMC students not currently enrolled in a writing course, will be offered by the Writing Program, St. Mary's College Department of English. 
The Workshop, informal in character and structure, will give students who are writing an opportunity to discuss their writing and improve their craft. 
For further information, contact Mr. Harold Isbell Director of the Writing Program: 31 l Madel eva, St. Mary's. 
Mrs. Nixon is a honorary mem­ber. 
A luncheon followed, after which the campaign party moved to a shopping center at the north edge of Greenwood, about nine miles south of down­town Indianapolis. From there, they moved on to Anderson where Mrs. Nixon planned to campaign for Roudebush and Dennis. 
Mrs. Roudebush, at the air­port, said Mrs. Nixon was asked, "You must be terribly tired with 

Favorable Trustee reaction hopeful 
(Continued from page 1) 
second floor and a co-ed 
hostlery for visiting students on 
the third floor. Said Connor, 
"We see the problems here, but 
it's an idea worth considering.'\ 
The committee, according to 
Connor, wants to make the 
Psychology Building into a cen· 
t er for "academic, student· 
oriented activity," with the 
possible removal of student 
publications from LaFortune tc 
this location. This idea is also 
only jn the preliminary plannin11 
vindictive spirit," she added. 
Professor Cassidy contended that in general most Africans believe that the dead remain with the living. She said that as long as a dead man was survived by someone who could remem­ber his name and keep it alive, he would remain in the group of the "living dead," but once a man's name "died" he passed into a different temporal state. 

"In general," Cassidy said, f"iiiji;l...;i;·~..;;;jiiliii;,;;::;;;;;;;;l 
so much traveling," but the First Lady replied "we're just de­lighted to do this, we all feel my husband needs some help in Washington that he is not get­ting." 
Indianapolis Mayor Richard 
G. Lugar presented Mrs. Nixon with the key to the city and told her "It's a tn:mendous experi­ence to have the First Lady here at the conclusion of Indiana's election campaign." 
Republican national com-
The final proposal concerns a student mall on the St. Mary'~ road, hear US 31. This would include coed apartment hou~es. 
shops, restaurants, a new student union building, a religious center and a theater. 
Connor says he expects the Trustees to react "very favor­able" to the proposals, since most of them involve no great monetary expenditure on the part of the university. 
SBP Dave Krashna will also propose an expanded University Forum, with a more formalized­structure, more frequent closed 
cing.'' 
Cassidy also contended that the Yoruba tribe considered death as ~ debt to be reckoned with God and the Kikuyu tribe had its dead eaten by wil ani­mals. 
Concluding, Dr. Cassidy said that a lot of the African atti­tudes would seem grotesque to the Western mind but "Death is death and human beings react to it as human beings." 
m1tteeman L. Keith Bulen of Indianapolis said "any state that has gone as far down the line as this one has with their President cannot fail him now.'-' 
Appears At Greenwood 
Several hundred persons turned out in the rain at the shopping center at Greenwood where she campaigned for Roud­ebush and Bray, whose 6th Dis­trict includes Johnson and Greenwood. 
meetings, and more formalized 
student, faculty, administrative 
and trustee representatives. 
Carl Ellision, Recruitment 
Action Program director, will 
present the Trustees with the 
Minority Students' Report, 
which asks for $12 million over 
the next ten years. 
Krashna said, "What we are doing is asking the Trustees to make a commitment in financial terms to the Minority program." The areas of chief concern are black and Chicano recruitment, financial aid. and area studies 
programs. The large sum of money, according to Krashna, is 
Interested in a 
Teaching Career??? 

Any St. Mary's-Notre Dame student who may be interested in the possibility of teaching as a ~rofession is strongly urged to attend an orientation 
·meeting to be held on Thursday evening, October 29, in room 249 Madeleva. This meeting will begin promptly at 7 o'clock and will last approximately one hour. 
NOW PLAYING 
CALL 288-8488 FOR TIMES-DIRECTIONS 



"'M:::A:::s::=H' is what the new freedom of the screen is all about.'' 
-Richard Schickel, Life 

2~ 
";::::..:~·:-,-,..fi...$r~~n-;•a 
An lngo Preminger Production ......rnlR Color by DE LUXE" Panavision® ~ 
H·air Styling~ 
.fgr_ND_men the Continental Way 
Razor Cutting l~ Style 

Euro_Fcan Ltyer Shaping for Long H:rir Have Long Hair~ · Let Miss Treva & The Baro!l Be Well Groomed Serv.e & Pamper You 
Continental Hair Styling 
306 Sherland Bldg. Sout-h Bend, Ind. Student Rates 23ft0811 By Appt. 

'lm: re1ern:u ro Kouaeousn as "Mr. Senator" but, like her ap­pearance at Indianapolis, made only a brief statement. There were no campaign speeches. In­stead, Mrs. Nixon. Roudebush and Bray spent most of the time shaking hands at the Center Grove High School as the band played in the background. 
Mrs. Nixon took time to hug two six-year-old children, Donald Wright and Erin Hinkle, both of Greenwood. The Wright boy is a grandson of Oren Wright, Johnson Country GOP chairman. 
needed because of an expected increase in minority enrollment over the next two years. 
The afternoon session will be an open meeting between the Trustees and any students who 
wish  to  attend.  Anyone  who  
wishes  to  discuss,  argue,  
complain  or  suggest  anything  

with the Trustees is encouraged to come 
1971 BLUE MANTLE 
On sale until No vembef 2, $7.50, Cal/4524 



