
Marx decries ~ocean pollution 
possible uses of the ocean's re­largest portion of the problem,
by Jerry Jenkins 
claiming that they arc the largest 
sources before allowing further 
sewage dumpers. He called for
exploitation and pollution. HeWesley Marx, noted environ­
more legislation coupled with
complained about coastline
mental writer and photographer, 
increased technological research
municipalities which, he claims,spoke to a group of about 200 
to control both the coastline
act as though "the solution tostudents last night in the second 
cities and the problems he claims 
pollution is more dilution."
of a series of Student Union they produce.
The environmentalist said thatAcademic Commission lectures 
Marx said that the present 
on the topic "Pollution is a the attempt by coastline cities to 
trend in nature is irreversible,
Matter of Choice." break up existing pollution with 
and that it would take nearly 25 
Wesley's talk, titled "How not chemical agents is ineffective 
to 30 years for nature to simply
to Kill the Ocean," presented his and only furthers the pollution. 
clean up the present wastes. He
He blames coastline cities for theplea that citizens consider all 
highlighted his lecture with color slides of coastal erosion, pollu­tion, and dead marine life. The
Southern governors 
best way to end the trend, accor­ding to Marx, is a full-scale program of development for 
treatment plants. 
BILOXI, Miss (UPI) -.Dep conference chairman. Marx also considered the pos­South governors succeeded Tues­sibility of using the ocean as a day in getting committee ap­Committee Instructed food source. Although he ad­
proval of a modified resolution A move to appeal Rock­mitted that oceanic development on school desegregation, setting efeller's ruling was unsuccessful could have an impact on lower-up a final vote on the touchy is­but the conference, on a motion ing the protein shortage, he said 

draft resolution 
Wesley Marx
that this is not the answer.
sue. by Gov. Robert McNair of South Marx is the author of The
The Resolutions Committee, Carolina, voted to instruct the in. Conflict?" and "Wilderness or headed by Gov. Warren E. committee to take up the mat-Frail Ocean and wrote for The Other lectures in the series Fantasia, the .Disney Impera­Hearnes of Missouri, gave ter. En vi ron men tal Handbook, being presented by the Student tive." Times and places for the unanimous approval to the pro­The conference moved which was prepared for the first Union Academic Commission in­remainder of the series are J.-OSal submitted by Mississippi's through an array of policy posi­national Environmental Teach-clude "It's My Ocean: A Global posted around campus. John Bell Williams following a tions during the day on environ­heated wrangle over parliamen­mental control, rural develop­tary procedures. ment, crime control and educa-Originally, the resolution tion. 

Jordan ready for baHie 
would have placed the Southern Tennessee Gov. Buford Elling­Governors Conference on record ton, outgoing chairman of the against busing of pupils to Southern Regional Education (UPI) -Thousands of may move into Jordan if King Izvestia appealed to both achieve balance in schools. But Board (SREB), reported South­Jordanian troops poured into 
Hussein is overthrown to take Palestinians and Jordanians to mountain stop fighting.

sources said the proposal was ern states have tripled their fi­northwest Jordan yesterday for over strategic posi­tions overlooking Israeli frontier Israeli sources said Hussein
amended in committee to ask nancial support of higher educa­what could be a showdown bat­Congress to set a national policy tion during the past decade. tle with Syrian supported Pales­settlements. had ordered two brigades of on school integration. The Israeli sources said the armored troops into northwest
But Ellington said increased tinian guerrillas, Israeli military
"I think it's even stronger violence on campuses might thrust would probably be aimed Jordan for a counterattack at
sources said. The same sources 
at the Gilead mountain range. lrbid, Jordan's second largestthan my original resolution," bring "trouble in getting the raised the first hints of Israeli 

said Williams. The resolution, to I egislatures to finance higher military intervention in the in­This would give the Israelis a city which fell to Syrian sup­be presented for final action in education." creasingly bloody war. shot at Arab guerrillas who have ported guerrillas Monday. the closing session of the con­Gov. Robert W. Scott of harassed and shelled Israeli vil­Arafat, the Fatah militant
Yasser Arafat, leader of AI 
ference late Tuesday, would re­North Carolina, the incoming lages along the border since the on page 2)
Fatah guerrillas fighting in J or­(Continued 
quire a two-thirds majority of SREB chairman, said "some in­June, 1967,war.
dan, said 20,000 Palestinians had 
those present for approval. dication" is emerging that there Part of the crisis moved yes­
been killed or wounded in the 
Nixon wants 

Backers appeared optimistic is a correlation bet ween campus terday into the diplomatic arena
six-day civil war and charged
anout its chances. unrest and the enormous size of as the White House announced
that the landing of U.S. troops 
FBI at U"s

A lively debate broke out ear­modern universities. that King Hussein had asked the
in Jordan could be only hours
lier over whether the resolution The SREB is an official agen­Un itcd States, the Soviet Union, 
away. WASHINGTON (UPI)-Presi­
had been introduced in time for cy the Southern Governors Con­Britain and France to put pres­
As thousands of American dent Nixon will ask Congress for 
consideration by the Hearness ference esta blishcd in the late sure on Syria to get its tanks out 
troops remain on alert for a legislation to permit the FBI tocommittee. Hearness insisted 1940's through compacts so the possible move into Jordan to of northern Jordan. investigate campus arson and states could pool some of their
that the deadline had passed and There was no firm word on 
save stranded Americans, the Is­bombings even if local authori­
was backed up by Gov. Win­whether Hussein had also asked
higher education resources. rael sources said Israeli units ties object, it was announced
throp . Rockefeller of Arkansas, for American military assistance, yesterday.
and Washington dispatches said First word of the President'sonly that the United States


Call co-education inevitable 
plan came from Republicanwould protect Americans in Jor­
leaders Gerald Ford of the
dan. President Nixon was re­

by Fred Schaeffer 
tion for one school. but no one House and Hugh Scott of the knows how to run one for two ported to have told Senate 
Senate who spoke to reporters

Co-education at Notre Dame minority leader Hugh Scott that
schools. after a White House meeting
is "inevitable" according to Fr. the White House is "prepared to with Nixon. 
Charles Sheedy ,head of the com­According to Sheedy, another preserve the interests of the Presidential Press Secretary
mittee examining co-operation problem encountered is that United States in the current Mid­Ronald Ziegler later told news­
between ND and Saint Mary's. Saint Mary's feels it would lose dle East crisis." 
men that Nixon had decided to 

it's character. The State .Department said ask for the legislation without"A sepcrate mens' college Nixon was emphasizing diplo­consulting with his Commission
does not fit the university One program helping to bring matic rather than military means on Campus Unrest. 
picture. Seperate education for co-education clser is the co­to solve the crisis. The depart­Ford and ScoH outlined themen is suitable only in a small exchange program. According to ment's official spokesman, proposal after a 45 minute meet­and manageable college. The size Sheedy, "It's so successful, it's Robert McCloskey, said U.S. of­
ing with Nixon, Attorney

and character of university life creating dozens of problems; it's ficials were appealing to the General John N. Mitchell andmakes the idea of a men's col­forcing itself upon us." Sheedy Soviet Union to bring pressure
lege unrealistic and anachron­FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover. 
explained that the problems be­on Syria to get its armed forces 
istic." said Sheedy. Regarding a Ford said it was conceived by 
tween the seperate "operating out of Jordan.
women's school, Sheedy feels Nixon and Mitchell and that it 
sectors", and thus arc forcing "We are looking to the Soviet would be included as an amend­
that it "might have its' place-for the sectors to work together. Union to persuade the Syrians to ment to the Senate passed anti­
a certain girl and homogeneous Father Charles Sheedy withdraw their tanks," McClos­
He feels the best plan for co­crime committee now being con­
environment." key said. "The most significant
education at NC is a "solid. self-­sidered by the House Judiciary
school is ncccsarrily composed diplomatic effort is the approach
possessed and competent wo­Committee.
Sheedy believes that progress of operating sectors that make to the Soviet Union." is being made towards eventual decisions for their own orbit. men's college" at St. Mary's, and The proposal, Ford said,
Moscow was virtually silent

both men and women here at would permit federal interven­
co-education, however he said They become habituated to a on the crisis. The governmentNotre .Dame. "Notre Dame will 
tion on any campus which re­

that there is "great dragging both methodology that works only newspaper published a brief item ceives any form of federal sub­
at St. Mary's and here at Notre for them." As an example, he be co-ed,"he concluded, "but Tuesday saying that the United .Dame." He cited several reasons mentioned the administrators at States was looking for a pretext
not until all of us realize that it sidy-virtually every college cam-is a fact of life."
for this, among them, "A large N.D know how lo run a rcgistra-to intervene in Jordan. (Continued on page 3) 



Page 2 THE OBSERVER. Wednesday, Septemoer :l~ 

Israeli units ready to move on strategic positions 
120,000 shells were fired on vehides were apparently empty whom President Nixon has aboard three jetliners which the
(Continued from page 1) 

Amman in the first five days of supply trucks returning to bases pledged to protect. This group guerrillas hijacked to Jordan
who has spearheadeo the cam­

the war, destroying half of the for fresh ammunition, food and includes 38 Americans seized earlier this month.
paign against Hussein, sent a 
city. water.
cable to Arab leaders in Cairo 

"This firepower is equivalent The fighting around I rhid, 18 
Uruguay turns down
which described the situation in 

to the atomic bomb which was miles from the Jordan River
Jordan as "a massacre, never 

dropped on Hiroshima," El Sora­brought the combat extremely
witnessed in history before." 


new terrorist offer 

ni said. He said 80 per cent of dose to Israeli occupied terri­
"They -the Jordanian army 

the AI Wahdat refugee camp, tory and Israel was on full alert. MONTEVIDEO, Uruguay expert, held by the terrorists 
--are determined to exterminate 

largest in Jordan with 31 ,000 Premier Golda Meir convened an (UPI) -· The government has since last Aug. 7 and reported to 
our people," Arafat said. "After 

Palestinians, had been destroyed emergency session of her cabinet turned down a new terrorist be in ailing health.
they failed to destroy our people 

and that Zeroqa, a city in the to hear a briefing by the military offer to release an American The early reports said the
themselves, the landing of Amer­

north, was "almost totally des­chief-of-staff, Lt. Gen. Haim Bar hostage in exchange for publica­government had decided to yield
ican troops with their collusion 

troyed." lev, on "security problems." tion and broadcast of a I,300 to the terrorist demand at a
is a matter of hours away." 

The Israeli military correspon­The report of the two Jor­word leftist manifesto, sources lengthy, high level meeting at­
In Cairo, an Egyptian govern­

dents reported the Jordanian danian army brigades moving close to the presidential palace tended by President Jorge Pach­
ment spokesman said Arab 

troop movements yesterday into northwest Jordan coincided said yesterday. eco Areco, who previously had
leaders trying to end the war in 

from Tiberias, an Israeli resort with an announcement by the rejected any negotiations with
Jordan sent a top level delega­

on the Sea of Galilee not far Palestine Liberation organization The report flatly contradicted the terrorists. The later report
tion to Amman. It was headed 

from the battle zone. The Is-(PLO) in Beirut, Lebanon, that earlier indication the govern­insisted the conference had "re­
by the Sudan, Maj. Gen. Jafar 

raelis said the two brigades -Jordanian warplanes joined the ment would go along with the jected totally any negotiation"
El Numeiry. 

about 8,000 men -moved war for the first time yesterday. demand to save the life of with the underground guerrilla
Reports trickling out of 

northwards before dawn toward Claude L. Fly, 65, a U.S. soils organization.
Amman told of intense suffer­The PLO communique said 
ing. Thousands were reported Jordanian jet fighter bombers
Irbid, the Jordanian city which 
was reported seized by the

dying of hunger and thirst. The attacked the areas of Soam and 
Micro biology ~~h today
Syrian backed guerrillas Mon­

International Red Cross·said the Hawara on the outskirts of lrbid 
day. Irbid, Jordan's second Dr. Mogens Volkert will ad­
food supply in Amman was criti­in a I 0 minute raid. The Director of the Institute 
largest city is 45 miles north of In Amman, the military of Medical Microbiology at the dress a seminar sponsored by the
cal and that conditions were 
Amman.

"absolutely catastrophic" in one government reimposed a "shoot University of Copenhagen, Den­department of microbiology, camp for Palestinian refugees. The Israeli observers reported on sight" curfew and guerrilla mark, will speak on "The Non-describing his research on the seeing convoys of Jordanian reports said a guerrilla rocket genetics of RNA-type virus. His A spokesman for the Pales­army trucks rolling south of the attack had destroyed part of Genetics of Newcastle Disease experiments indicate that here­tinian Liberation Organization in east bank of the Jordan River King Hussein's palace just out­Virus" at 12:30 p.m. today in dity in these viruses may be very Cairo, Gamel El Sorani. said later yesterday and said these side town after palace guards Room 141 of the Radiation flexible, unlike traditional gene­
tics based on ON A' 

opened fire on the AI Baqaa Building. refugee camp.

SMC faculty opposes recess 

Reports in diplomatic circles The Faculty Assembly of tions. in Beirut said some of the Am-


Council host party

Saint Mary's College has gone on The Faculty Assembly, whose man fighting yesterday raged 
record as being opposed to a membership indudes the entire around the U.S. Embassy. An 
by Randy Epping The council conducts a three 

proposal that sudents be given a teaching faculty, is the working Arab correspondent who was 
hour physical education activity

week's recess in October to pro-body for fulfilling faculty re-able to file a dispatch from 
Logan Center school for the at Logan school on Saturdays.

vide time for active participation sponsibility in the function of Amman to Cairo said hundreds 
retarded participants were treat­

in the forthcoming national elec-the College. Acording to Dr. of houses had been destroyed Mrs. Carolyn Mays, past ac­
ed to a get-acquainted party last 

·•••••••••••••••••••• Anthony Black, chairman of the and thousands of bodies were in night by the Notre Dame -St. tivities director at Logan School,:. AMERICA :. Assembly, the proposal was re-the streets and under rubble. Mary's Council for the retarded. feels "this is the best thing that's jected on a number of grounds. The Palestinian Red Crescent happened to retarded kids in St. 
The council, which is made up 

: : Principal was the belief in the relief organization painted a pic-Joseph County." She went on to
of two hundred Notre Dame and

• • primary concern of the College lure of horror in the Jordanian say, "the Notre Dame and St.
St. Mary's volunteers, spends the 

: : as an academic body which capital. Mary's students give the children
year working with the school in

e e might he jeopardized should the "Thousands of children are something to pattern themselves
such areas as recreation, arts and

:Your best hop•: College politicize itself. Faculty dying in Amman of hunger and 
after."
crafts, and music, basketball and

e • also expressed concern that lost thirst and tens of thousands of girl and boy scouts.
: : class time would not be compen-wounded are dying because of a Membership has increased e • sated for by student involvement lack of medical aid and destruc-Now in its third year, the greatly since the club was started council plans many more activi­two years ago by two seniors,
•:•FI•nner 
Fri...Sat. := in the election campaign which tion of hospitals," Red Crescent 

faculty members felt would be said. ties to help the retarded. Jerry Loughlin and Rocky Blier, 

• 
e limited by both time and geo-Ther~ was no word on the "The community response has former foot ball captain. Carla 


been tremendous," according to Jemsek, second Vice-President,

..••••••••••••••••••• graphical factors. fate of 400 Americans in Jordan 
council president Griff Hogan. estimates the number has

~;;;;;::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::t::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::?.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ "The Logan school has been doubled each year. Many new getting calls for weeks prior to members were present at last
~i!l Welcome Back ND Students llll the beginning of school asking 
night's meeting. when the Notre Dame program 
The non-profit organization
was to begin again," he said. 
relies on donations to pay for
"When the parents and the 
trips to such activities as the
kids are satisfied," he added, 
Blue and Gold game, the circus
"that shows we've done a damn 
and the Ice Capades. 
good job."




~~~~ I 
For the r1ast THREE YEARS, CONTINENTAL HAIRSTYLING INC. of South Bend has been proud to offer Notre Dame men the best in hair care. Continental cuts your hair the way it looks best,...the way your favorite townie really likes it. So, if you haven't already, come in to see Treva and The Baron. It 

~ cculd become a habit. SPECIAL 
~ 

II Continental Hair Styling 
~=: 3C6 Sherland Bldg.

I Sou;~:;~· Indiana 
~jjj "Trim the Boilermakers" 
§t:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;;;;;:::;;;;;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::;::;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;:.:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::~:·:·:·:~~-~-·.·.·;·;·;::;;;:;:::::::::;:::::::::::::;:::;:::::~ 
~~-~--­

Next two years crucial 

AAC members comment on Princeton F•lan 

by Art Ferranti 
Three members of the Aca­demic Affairs Commission ( AAC) expressed their views yes­terday on the passage of the controversial Princeton Plan and laying the groundwork for the student membership proposaL 
Ann Marie Tracey, St. Mary's SBP, presented student's views at the Academic Council AAC mt!eting last Monday afternoon. She stressed that the idea of the student membership was to pro­
the  faculty,  one  from  the  stu­ The Council originally allow- All  four  stt•clents  predicted  
dents and  one from the admini­ ed  a  total of five student repre­ · that  the  Princeton  Plan  would  
stration to review those student  sentt1tives.  After the  meeting, a  n. 't pus:;.  
interested in participating on the  seven  student  membership  was  


"m"Stepan Sii'e for pep rally 
commented on the newly-grant­ed student representation on the Ac<:~demic CounciL 
Bill Wilka, the Academic Af­fairs commissioner, said that he was "quite pleased" with the Academic Council's members who stood ;,p and spoke in the Academic Affairs Commission's behalf. He said that the next two years would he the "most cru­cial" for student membership in order for the plan to wntinue, because at the end oftwo years, the idea will be reviewed. 
Before student membl'fship was allowed, the Academic Council was made up of all the vide a greater "communication among faculty members and the students for the initiation of new ideas and research." 
Miss Tracey was also greatly impressed with the Academic Council's attention to their speeches and proposals. 
"Tht~ meeting was a perfect exampk in itself of how the students are needed on the coun­cil," said Miss Tracey. 
Junior Tom Sthoaf said that he had "reservations" on the manner of choosing the repre­sentatives. He suggested a tri-par­tite system of one member from 
by Greg Pudhorodsky 
The era of the fieldhouse has ended but Blue Circle Pep Rally Chairman Doug Coppola expressed the hope that most of the traditional spirit would be retained by holding the affairs in cozy Stepan Center. 
The University Arts Council, which took over the antiquated ficldhouse during the controversy that followed the administration's decision to level the structure, presently has moved in large sculpturing stones. Coppola expressed the fear that the 

stores would present a danger to those attending the rally. Due to the dissatisfaction 
expressed  by  much  of  the  
student  body  following  the  
one  rally  that  was  held  in  the  

spacious and antiseptic Convocation Center the search began for a suitable site. The possibility of outside rallies was considered initially but the task of relocating upwards of ten thousand people was considered too great to risk on the fickle South Bend weather. 
Stepan Center was decided upon because it was felt that it would have the best chance to replicate th·e atmosphere of the Fieldhouse. Coppola no ted, however, that when conflicts arise by events already scheduled for the Stepan Center that the Convo would have to be used. 
The band will begin canvassing the quads at 6:45 PM. Speaking at the rally will be head coach, Ara Parsegian, and co-captains, Larry DiNardo and Tim Kelly. 
deans from all the colleges, and institutes, all the vice-presidents the provost, and the president as the ex officio membership. Elected members are the faculty members based on the propor­tional number of faculty in the different colleges. 
Wilka also cited Bill Locke last year's AAC commissioner, a~ being the "IT'qst responsible" in 
Congr~ss OK 
nece~ry 
(Continued from page 1) 
pus in the country-following any arson or bombing. 
Scott said "other acts of ter­
rorism" would also permit FBI 
investigation, but declined to be 
specific. He said, however, the 
legislation would rule out 
"throwing rocks or breaking 
glass" as grounds for federal in­
tervention. 
Under the Nixon-Mitchell pro­posal, the Justice Department and the FBI would have au­thority to act without invitation and even if campus and local of­ficials object to the presence of federal agents. 
Ziegler, asked what would 
happen if a college administrator 
did object to a federal 
investigation, said he could not 
conceive of that happening. 
He also said the administra­
tion did not ask the advice of 
the Commission on Campus 
Unrest, headed by former Penn­
sylvania Gov. William W. Scran­
ton. The commission is pre­
paring a report some critics be­
lieve will he less critical of stu­
dent rioters-and more critical of 
I a w enforcement authorities 
li an the Presidt nt would like. 
Organizational meeting set 
An organizational meeting of 
Mexican American students at 
Notre Dame will be held at 7:00 
PM Wednesday, September 23, 
1970 at the Urban Studies Work­
room in the Rockne Memorial 
Building. 
Chicano undergraduate and graduate students are welcome. The goals and objectives of a Chicano organization will be dis­cussed. 
rhe Observer is publoshed daily durong the college semesteo P.xce;.:.t vacations by the students ot t~•e University of Notre Dame and St. r"i<J;y's College~ Subscriptions m<~y be purchased for $8 from The Ol1server, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Now maybe your folks will unilerstand you. 
You can pin your communication problem on the generation gap. But that's a cop-out. You rna y just have lousy penmanship. 
To get your point across. And do it sharply, you need a Panasonic electric pencil sharpener. Because it has tungsten-steel cutter blades. That last ten times longer than ordinary cutter blades. And a sealed electric motor that should last you at least through college. Even if you repeat a course. 
Your pencils will last longer, too. Thanks . to an electronic eye that flashes when your point is made. 
An~ while you're cleaning up your vocabulary, you wont be making your pad any dirtier. Because our Point-0-Matic electric pencil sharpener has a slide-out tray that keeps all the pencil shavings inside. Until you're ready to throw them out. 
Get a Panasonic electric pencil sharpener at the same place you find Panasonic lamps. Your college bookstore. ·.4 And start improving communications with the old folks at home. Remember, they not only gave you life. They still give you money. 

PANASONIC® 
just slightly ahead of our time. 

Page<, THE OBSERVER Wednesday, September 23 


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper DAVIDC. BACH,l:"ditol" GAJ:T,\NO M. Dt· SAPIO. Puhlishcr 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Guy DeSapio 
·:~:::~:::~:~:~:::::~:::::~:~:::::::~:~:::::~:::::::::::!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::~=~=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 

The SLC 
The Student Life Council should meet again soon if the members ~:an find a time to meet when they are all free. H seems that the university has finally ne­ated enough committees, subcommittees, study groups, and other breeds of organi­zations so that people can be effedively kept out of the dassroom 95% of the time. So many committees have been created that there is no one time when all the members of the Student Life Council, the father and super committee of all committee's, can meet. 
The effects of this grand predicament was evidenced in the Council's first meeting of the year. The Council has always been notoriously slow getting things dc:1e. There are a number of new members on this year's Coundl and they set out immediately to prove that they wuld waste time just as well, if not bet­ter, then past members have. 
Over one hour was set aside, through no consdous effort, for the purpose of discussing when the coundl would meet during the year. The method which the council used in its deliberations equaled, if not surpassed, the efficient means which they used in handling matters last year. Periodically someone would suggest a possible lime o.nty to find out that there was someone else who was busy at that time. This went on for nearly one hour. There were members who had faculty committee meetings, department meetings, and revival meetings. Amazing there were even individuals who said that they wuld not attend because they had to go to classes at that hour; although not many. 
Finally the council did the obvious. It did not come easily. Father Riehle sug­
gested that all the members write down the times when they would be available to meet and then he would tabulate the 
results and find a time when all wuld meet. 
In order to avoid doing things sloppily and in haste, additional discussion was held. The time was not wasted though. Father Riehle's proposal was changed. Council members were to list the times when they would not be able to attend rather than the times that they would. ' 
The Council did manage to squeeze in a half an hour of discussion on the Ju­dicial Code. Although many people don't realize it, the SLC was established with 
revision of the Code as its primary responsibility. That was back in 1968, when the Trustees approved the concept of the Council. ln the letter authorizing the Council, the Trustees specifically stated that revision of the judicial system would he one of its primary duties. 
By the spring of 1969 the Council had appointed a wmmittee to write a new wde. Under the chairmanship of Assistant Dean Foschio of the Law School the committee met throughout 
The opinions expressed in the Business Manager: Bruce Rieck Assoc. Editors: Sue Bury, Ann Conway, 
editorials, news analyses, and Advertising Manger: Bruce Barker !:;teve Hoffman. Dave Lammers. 
columns of The Observer are Campus Editor: Glen Corso Night Editor: John Knorr 
solely the opinions of the authors News Editor: Jim Holsinger Layout Design: Mary Chris Morrison 
and editors of The Observer and Assoc. News Editor: Ed Ellis Headlines: Pat Geary, Jim Graif 
do not necessarily reflect the SMC News Editor: Jeanne Sweeney Layout: Ann Conway, Daniel V., 
views of St. Mary's College, the Features Editor: T'C' Treanor t.,rt Wesselman University of Notre Dame, their Sports Editor: Terry Shields Controller of the Night: Rock Smith administrations, faculty, or 
sturle:1t bodif'~. 

the summer and came up With a volumi­nous code with legal procedures and safeguards for students and a system of courts which would have kept everyone who was not involved in breaking a law involved in sitting on hearing hoards. 
After a wuple of months of hearings last fall the SLC accepted the wmmit­tee's code and sent it on to Father Hesburgh for his approval. There were two dissident voices; that of Father Burtchaell, now University Provost and of then, Student Body. President,' Phil McKenna. Burtchaelt thought that the code included too many hearing b, ards and would make things too complicated. McKenna sought to simplify it for reasons related to his philosophical view of the relationship t(lat should exist between members of the university. McKenna then stood alone among the 
students  sitting  on  the  Council  in  being  
opposed  to  the  code.  
Father  Heshurgh  returned  the  wdc  to  
the  wuncil  with  suggestions  for  improve­ 

ment. By now it was the spring of 1970 and with the Council wrapped up in the midst of spring time they wrnpletely reversed field and decided to let McKenna and Burtchacll work on an entirely new document; a more simplified code. 
The new code was presented at the Council's last meeting of last year. It was short, simple, and to the point. It was accepted by the Council with little revision and sent to Father Hesburgh who in turn forwarded it to the Trustees for their approval. 
But the Trustees objected to part of the wde. While student found guilty by their peers wuld appeal to higher authorities, the wde did not provide for the Dean of Students to appeal cases in which students were found innocent of 
the initial charges brought against them. 
The Trustees point, the Council was informed, was not to break legal tradi­tion and to aeate a code where students could be held in double jeopardy. They 
were concerned a buot the instances where the student court would flagrantly ignore the facts or misinterpret a rule. 
No matter what the rhetoric may be, the real question is not who may appeal and who may not. The real question is whether students can be trusted with the primary responsibility of running the judidal system. That question is part of the larger issue of "student responsi­bili~y." That issue has been continually avOided when problems have been discus­sed on this campus. It is about time that it is aired. The SI.C's deliberations on the Code might be the opportumty. 
If it was settled it might make de­cision making a lot easier around here. And besides, a lot of student leaders might be forced to reevaluate their posi­tions. 
••• EFFETE St.JOBS • R~D­

ICLIGS, PU..S• SILAUIMOUS PUSSY JUOTUtS, [TC., .... 
§2.i ·rom· t!· ter \ 
5PI-'RJt..M-9T· aR \ 
nsvJ  AU  
FOR.  ME.A.bURIUG  
~IR  EtJTE.RttJG  

LE.~VI~G THE 



Law and Order 
The controversy over Law and Order flared anew this summer with the passage of the Nixon administration's anit-crime bill for Washington D.C. The bill's critics-the most notable being Sen. Sam Erwin, whose opposition brought forth a spate of condescending remarks from the media to the effed that even conservatives sC?metimes care for people's rights-charge that two provisions of the b1ll arc repressive and unconstitutional. 
There is no doubt that the two measures-the no knock provision and the pre-trial provision-are repressive. After all what else should society do with crime, but repress it? The word used in the aitics' sense was meant to convey a dark evil pidure of Gestapo-like police abusing dtizen's rights. However are the measures repressive, in the aitics' sense'! Will they result in large scale violation of rights? If one examines the fads the answer seems to be no. 
Take for example the no-knock provision. Suppose the police strongly susped that several persons in an apartment are engaged in cutting heroin. Accordingly they will obtain a "no-knock" warrant go to the apartment and burst in without announcing themselves. If the inhabitants arc engaged in legtimate adivity they will suffer no ill effeds beyond the unwekome intrusion of the police. If, how­ever, they arc engaged in processing dope they won't have a chance to flush their poison down the toilet. 
Critics raise another point though. They daim that by abusing the law, police will be able to harass minority groups who are not en­gaged in any unlawful activity. This charge is,very turs. Let us sup­pose_ t_he local police decide to harass the local Black Panthers. Upon receiVIng word that several of them have congregated in a nearby apartment detectives arc ordered to enter and search the apartment for narcotics violations. The detectives acquire a "no-knock" war­rant and go to the apartment. Upon bursting in they fail to find any na_rc~tics yet use a flimsy pretext to arrest the Panthers. Obviously th1s IS an abuse of the "no-knock" provision and a clear case of r.olice har~~sment. Yet what i~ the police had not been able to get a 
~o-knock warrant. Would 1t have made any difference? It cer­tamly didn't in Chicago when to Panthers were killed by the police in their apartment. 
The fad is that the no-knock provision is not giving the police any more power for abuse than they already have. If they wish to harass peop_l~ they can, for as long as they can get away with it. Yet this proviSion could make the split second difference between arrest and escape for many person involved in criminal activity. 
The same premise of "sufficent power already exists" holds true ~1th the pre-trial detention provision. Critics maintain t1at the fail­mg of a susped, before he has been tried and convicted no matter w~at his rcwrd~ is a_violation of vicil liberties. Now a ~ery serious pomt c~n be ra1sed, m the case of an acwmplished criminal, as to whose nghts arc to hold sway, his or societies'? 
Let us say a man is accused of assaulting a woman and there were half a dozen people who witnessed it. Can the judge, in all conscience, after seeing the man's record with several previous convictions for violent crimes, allow the man to go free on bail: 
_In fad the ~achinery for the man's pre=trial detention already cx1sts. All the .JUdge has to do is to set bail high enough so that the d~fendant can't meet it. In effed the pre-trial detention provision will remove an inequity since it is obvious that present bail procedure discriminates against the poor. Now if a man is incar­cerated before trial it will be because the judge feels he is a menace to society, not merely because he is poor. 
Th~.: new provision for the District of Columbia won't open up new avenues for abuses. The power to abuse already exists for the police and the judiciary. With these provisions however police may be able to damp down more effedively on drugs and judges will be spared the hyponitical resort to high bail in order to lock repeaters up. 
..._____ __·~·~· u ._. ­
THE OBSERVER 




J. ARTHUR PEARS, 
Notre Dame Supercop J. Arthur Pears is, in addition to being an investigative genius and karate expert, a master of disguises. Here, in a world exclusive, the Observer takes a look at Pears in his various disguises. 

Here, J Arthur i~ disguised as Notre Dame Pres­ident, Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S C. 
J. Arthur also makes all executive decisions for the security department, such as how many bullets each patrolman may have. He was in on the decision to change over from Civil War rifles to the newer WWI models. 

J. Arthur, or "Mr. Pears" as he is known to his friends, was on top of the circus throughout the weekend, disguised as a trapeese (not shown.) 


Direct quote from honest J. Arthur Pears, commenting on the confiscation of film at the pornography conferance, "I know absolutely nothing." 

In thil> Photo, Pears is cleverly di!lguised as student bcdy president Dave Krashna. 

MASTER OF DISGUISES 
. 


OC commissions combine to eliminate duplication 
L---2_34-_1_2_2_J._A_f_te_r_s_p_._m_.---.J:~d-ip_p_ed_3_/_8...........-------====---· an operation called "Ninc Drag­ons" in central Cambodia. In South Vietnam, the U. S. military command reported the loss of two more helicopters and said five Americans were killed and five wounded in the down­ings. It said hoth helicopters were on mercy missions. The U.S. command also an­nounced that the last units of the 9th Infantry Division had begun a final "stand down" prior to leaving Vietnam under President Nixon's phrase four withdrawal program. Officials said about 2570 ~en were involved. Elite batattalions of Cam­bodian par:.~ troopers moved a­round the village of Tank Kauk, 52 miles north of Phnom Penh, 
i AMERICA i In the ACC Sept. 25 8:30 PM 
• 

:t.ou McKenzie :
Tlck«!_ts $5.50 $4.50 and $2.50 
D-N SALE AT GILBERT'S, 
: fri(50C': BOOKSTORE AL SMITH'S RECORDS, 
•e •e 
DON KEENE'S, DINING HALLS AND 

··~Sat ($l.OOJ•
STU DENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 
e -,-·e ( 4-6pm) . PRESENTED DY STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION A C .C. : : 
L----===~~~~~~~~~~~==~~---J •·••••••••••••••••••••• 
less duplication of effort, when the primary concern of the two commissions should be, and is, the Off-Campus student or in­tending off campus st The let­ter also stated that the commis­sioners hope to "start changing the seperate atmosphere that has existed between the two schools in the past." 
More SMC upperclassmen are expected to move off-campus next year, when St. Mary's an­ticipates its largest Freshman\ class, than are presently living off-campus. The Commissioners say that they are presently work­ing to allow SMC juniors to move off-campus. 
Jerry o·connor 

Cambodian ,troopers move after being stalled 
PHNOM PENH (UPI) -Cam­bodian paratroopers spearhead­ing the largest government task force of the war advanced north­ward yesterday after being stall­ed for eight days by a Com­munist blockade. They flanked a village where North Vietnamese troops were reported dug in 52 miles north of Phnom Penh. Elsehwere in Cambodia, a force of 3000 South Vietnamese marines and infantrymen swept through flooded rice paddies southeast of the key Mekong River ferry crossing at Neak Leung, and rounded up 160 sus­pected Communists. A spokesman for Laotian left-wing forces in a Hanoi broadcast heard in Tokyo charged Tuesday night that South Vietnamese troops with U.S. advisers had launched an offensive in the Attopeu area of southern Laos. 
The  Attopue  district  bestrides  
the Ho Chi Minh Trail.  
The  broadcast said  I l batal­ 

lions of South Vietnamese and Laotian troops along with American advisers were attack­ing the northwest and western parts of the Attopeu area in "operation Dragon." South Viet­namese troops Sunday launched 
from positions three miles south regiment had been reported dug where a 12 battalion government in earlier. task force has been stalled for They said that aerial observa­eight days, hemmed in by tion showed some of the para­thousands of Communist troops. troopers had reached positions 
Military officers at Skoun told in rice paddies three miles north­
UPI that the pard troopers were west of the village, apparently sent to Hank the village, where without meeting heavy resist­elements of a North Vietnamese ance trom the Comm~,;nists. 
Soviets relay U.S. message 
WASHINGTON (UPI) The United States waited yesterday for a response to its urgent re­quest, relayed by the Russians, that Syria withdraw its tanks from northern Jorday and ease the threat of warfare engulfing the Middle East. 
Word that the Soviet Union had cooperated in the primary 
U.S. diplomatic thrust in the cri­sis was received at about 6 p.m. Monday when July M. Voront­sov, the Soviet charge d'affaires; called on Joseph J. Sisco, assis­tant Secretary of State for Near Eastern affairs, at the State De­partment. 
The department said Tuesday that "the Soviet government is in touch with the Syrian govern­ment" about Secretary of State William P. Rogers' request for a withdrawal from Jordan. 
There was no indication 
whether the Russians endorsed 
Rogers' plea or merely trans­
mitted it to the Syrians. "The 
real test of whether that is a 
meaningful matter will turn on 
whether or not forces from Syria 
are withdrawn from Jordan," 
said department spokesman 
Robert J_ McCloskey. 
The White House confirmed 
that King Hussein had sent mes­
sages to U.S., British, French 
and Soviet members of the U.N. 
Security Council "regarding 
what assistance could be pro­
vided diplomatically." 
Press Secretary Ron<Jld Ziegler 
refused to say whether Hussein 
h<Jd soundl~d out the United 
States about intervening mili­
tarily to save his regime. McClos­
key said Hussein's appeal to the 
Big Four was "not in terms of a 
request for military interven­
tion" and neither he nor Ziegler 
would divulge the contents of 
direct communications between 
Washington and Amman. 
McCloskey made clear that for the moment, the United St<Jtcs W<JS attaching the most weight to Roger's message to Moscow Sunday for help in im­pressing Syria with the danger posed by its armored move into Jordan. 
"The most significant diplo­matic effort is the approach to the Soviet Union," McCloskey said. 
U.S. officials observed Tues­day that Syrian forces had dug in along the lrbid Ramtha line and had not tried to advance toward Amman, the Jordanian capital, 50 miles to the south. 
This enables the Syrians to partially flank the Israelis, who weakened Syria's military posi­tion when they occupied the Golan Heights in the 1967 war, Defense Department sources noted. 
Vogel to deliver 
Reilly Lecture 

A German chemist will des­cribe his research on molecular architecture in the first Reilly Lecture in Chemistry, scheduled for Wedncsd<Jy and Friday at 
4:30 
p.m. in Room 123 of the Nieuwland Science Hall. 

D. 
Emmanuel Vogel, profess­or of organic chemistry at the University of Colgnc, will deliver three talks under the general heading "Novel Aspects of Aro­matic CIJemistry ." The series will describe research in which Vogel and his associates synthes­ized several complex molecules to test an important theory in organic chemistry. 


Vogel h<Js served as a visiting professor at Fordham University and the University of Chicago, as well as Sandin Lecturer at the University of Alberta, Canada. He has held the chair of organic chemistry at the Universitylof Cologne since 1961. 
The Reilly Lectures in Chem­istry are sponsored by the Col­lege of Science and the depart­ment of chemistry at Notre Dame. They arc funded by an endowment form the late In­dianapolis industrialist, Peter C. Reilly. 
The Notre Dame and St. Mary's Off Campus Commissions (OCC) have combined their ser­vices. 
In a letter dated September 18, Jerry O'Conner and Kathy Barlow, the Notre Dame and St. Mary's Commissioners explained the rationale for the merger. 
"We have taken this step with the view that two seperate of­fices would result in much need-


Kathy Barlow 
Jordan_ causes market fall 
(UPI) -The explosive situa­tion in Jordan proved a major stumbling block for the stock market again Tuesday. Trading was moderately active. 
The Dow Jones industrial average, which plunged more than 6.5 points Monday on this type of news, fell another 4.45 to 747.47. The average price of a NYSE common share dropped 12 cents. 
More than 800 issues finished lower, while 514 higher. How­ever, new highs outnumbered lows, 15 to 8. 
Needed: South Bend residents with full 
knowledge of local high school sports scene, for i ou rnal is tic work. Much money to be made. Paul 
_ 
"The situation in the Middle East is very dangerous and tract­ers can't help but keep a close eye on it," one Wall Street anal­yst remarked. 
Airlines lost fractions, while steels, chemicals, rails, aircrafts, conglomerates and motors were irregularly lower. 
Of the fifteen most active issues, nine moved lower and six gained. 
Among the day's widest swingers were Keebler Co. up 3%, Shell Oil up 2.3, Avon Prod­ucts up 2.12, and Dun and Brad­street up 2. IBM fell 2Y4; 
Stocks off a point or more included Nashua Corp., Bank of New York, Corning Glass, Walt Disney • Du Pont, Superior Oil, Burroughs and Texas lnstru­ments. American Telephone 




Wrap-up of news around the ~orld 

Bormann unsuccessful 
WASHINGTON (UPI) Astronaut Frank Borman, who once told Congress of his trium­phal trip around the moon, told a joint session Tuesday that all he found in his 14 nation at­tempt to free U.S. prisoners of war was "American anguish and human tragedy." 
The House and the Senate, assembled in a rare joint meeting and joined by most of the cab­inet, listened solemnly as the commander of the Apollo 8 mis­sion described the plight of 1500 Americans missing or imprisoned in Southeast Asia. 
Nine ex-POWs in military dress listened from front row seats, their families and those of about 60 men missing or im­prisoned were in the galleries for the report from '3orman on his 25 day, 14 nation tour to seek help for U.S. efforts to release the prisoners. 
"The last time l was here," Borman recalled,"I was able to 
tell  you  about  the  voyage  of  
Apollo  8,  and  I  was  able  to  
report  to  you  that  it  was  an  

American success and a human triumph." 
"I have recently returned from a 25 day trip around the globe in furtheran ce of the cause of our prisoners of war, and I must tell you that I cau only report American anguish and human tragedy." 
The wives -some widows but unaware of it sat dry-eyed and tight-lipped. Only 3 23 of the estimated 1500 captured or missing Americans have been al­lowed to communicate with their families and North Viet­nam has never acknowledged holding any of them. 
Borman said he failed to make 
personal  contact  with  North  
Vietnam  and  the  Viet  Cong  
"through  third  parties in  three  

countries," and could get no closer to Hanoi itself than Vien­tiane, Laos. 
The: only positive result from his trip was his promise that "North Vietnam will receive new and additional entreaties from many of the countires we visit­ed." 
General William C. West­moreland, Army Chief of Staff and former U.S. commander in Vietnam, sat in the gallery as the guest of the wives along with other service chiefs. 
The huge House chamber was only about two thirds full when House Speaker John W. McCormack first introduced Borman, expressing America's "extraordinary sense of moral outrage" at the war U.S. prison­
ers have been treated. Speaking from notes on yel­low paper which he said com­

prised his report to President Nixon in San Clemente Septem­ber 2nd, Borman warned Hanoi that U.S. policy in Vietnam can­not be swayed by North Viet­namese abuse of prisoners. 
He asked Congress and the Cabinet to do as he did nightly after "a frustrating day" during his trip when "I tried to place myself mentally in the position of a prisoner in a North Viet­namese prison camp." 
"After your capture, you are probably beaten, dragged through villages, and in some cases tortured," he said. "You probably have lost 45 to 60 pounds. Your food generally consists of two meals a day, one rice and squash soup and an evening meal of pig fat. 
"It is designed barely to keep you alive, it appears, as is the medical care destined to barely avert death ... You are probab­ly held in solitary confinement." 
When Borman, to loud ap­plause, denounced as "utter rub­bish" North Vietnamese claims that the prisoners were war crim­inals, Senator J. William Ful­bright, D Arkansas, chairman of the Senate foreign Relations Committee, did not join in but 
stared stonilv ahe:ul 

~nd whe~ Rorman callecl ,v,. 
,-•.merican peace groups who in 
the past have arranged the re­
lease of some U.S. prisoners to 
deal with the North Vietnamese, Senator Mark Hatfield, R. Ore­gon, refusec to join in the ap­plause. Hatfield, as sponsor of the recently defeated "amend­ment to end the war," has closer contact with peace groups than almost any senator. 
Agnew labels FCC 
official permissive 

LOUISVILLE, Ky. (UPI) Vice-President Spiro T. Agnew Tuesday singled out a member of the Federal Communications Commission as the type of "super permissive" government officials who have encouraged the country's youth to use mari­juana and other drugs. 
Agnew did not name the of­
ficial in his speech to a fund 
raising luncheon but he made it 
plain he was referring to Nich­
olas Johnson, who was appoint­
ed to the FCC in 1966 by 
former President Lyndon Baines 
Johnson. 
The vice-president said he was "surprised and shocked" by Johnson's reaction to a speech he made in Las Vegas last week in which Agnew said some "pro­ponents of the drug culture are misusing popular music to get across their message." 
"This appointee of a previous administration promptly took the side of the rock musicians and echoed their pronounce­ments about how many songs were produced with anti-drug lyrics," Agnew said. 
"He went on, however, to espouse the kind of radical lib­eral philosophy of permissive­ness and self-flagellation that has encouraged so many of our young people to turn to pot and 
worse." 

Johnson last Thursday told a group of foreign service officers that Republicans should stop ac­cepting campaign contributions 
from liquor a_nd c~garette mak­ers and corporations whose ads 
promote the drug culture. 

"One cannot help but wonder how he [AgnewI overlooked Ford's urging, 'Blow Your Mind,' TWA's taking us 'Up, Up, and A way,' the money comrany that suggests we 'Get High on Money,' the motor bike com­pany that advertises 'A Trip on This One is Legal,"' said John­son. 
"Perhaps the critical point is that young song writers and per­formers don't make political campaing contributions, but that Ford, TWA and other drug ., image merchandisers do." 
FOOTBALL SATURDAY CHILO Ct~RE NO, SMC STUDENTS; I\1UCH EXPE RIENCE $1 PER HOUR AND 
FAMILY RATES 

!CALL 272-618J ~ 
(~Proper means of illumination during periods 
of cerebraln1editation ofttin1es results in an environn1entaln1etam.orphosis beneficial to 
the cat who's using it:' 
The right kind of lamp can do good things to your head. As well as your studies. 
Like the Panasonic Fluorescent Desk Lamp. With an electronic gizmo that gets 22 watts of light out of a 15-watt bulb. And sends some of that extra light through the trans­lucentshadethatkeepsyour brilliantly illuminated crib notes from blinding you. 
And if you have a small 
room or a small-minded roommate 
who likes to sleep occasionally, you ought 
to have Panasonic's High Intensity Lamp. 
\Nith its sliding lever that gives you an 
infinite series of settings. From a cram-night 150 watts all the way down to a Saturday­night seductive glow. Now that you are adequately enlightened as to the relevance of proper illumination to emotional homeostasis, ambulate to that repository of knowledge and sweat shirts, your college bookstore. Where you can look at Panasonic lamps and electric pencil sharpeners. After which, we think you'll agree that there's only one way to see things. Our way. 
PANASONIC® 
just slightly ahead of our time. 



Purdue still holds 'The Shillelagh' 
,.._ 
Lafayette, Ind. -Purdue's inexperienced defense, bolstered by its shutout of potentially explosive Texas Christian, keys the Boilermakers' hopes of extending a three-game 
winning streak against Notre Dame Saturday before 59,075 fans in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Using six first-time defensive starters, Purdue bent for 367 yards against TCU, but cashed in on cornerback R_andy Cooper~_Jflterception 
and defensive end John Handy's fumble recovery for its pair of fourth quarter touchdowns_ and . the 15-0 season openmg victory for coach Bob DeMoss. 
Notre Dame, again ranked high in both wire service polls, used its outstanding offensive line to maul Northwestern 35-14 in its opener. 
The State's two unbeaten major college teams meet for the 43rd time in a series that began in 1896 with a 28-26 
It has been 
four years since 
Notre Dame has 

beaten Purdue 
... SO WHAT 
STUDENTS FOR 
REORDERED PRIORITIES 
hobbled with a severe knee (Calumet City, Ill.) into the (M ·h t N H) bmise. starting lineup at center. Ken am: es er, · · · 
Earlier in the game tight Watkins ( Alton,Ill.) moves •••••••••••••••••••• 
end Ashley Bell (Rumson, ove~ from guard to back up : 
N.J.), who set school and Big Hoidahl. Chicagoan Rich • 
Ten records last season with Ostriker takes over Watkins':. 
his 13 TD receptions received guard spot. The defense is • 
a severe shoulder bruise. i n t a c t a n d d r a wing : 
DeMoss is hoping DeNuccio com PI i men t s from the • 
and Bell will be able to play Boilermaker coaching staff. : 
Saturday, but neither is The newcomers' credentials: 
expected to practice until at after Saturday are formidable. e 
best Wednesday. Among them are sophomore : 
Buchanan's I oss puts middle guard Greg Bingham's e 
sophomore Bob Hoidahl (~hicago) 14 tackles including :
II 

five before TCU runners •

UPI Po 

reached the line of scrimmage. : 
Handy's (Lockport, Ill.) 10 e 
stops ~nd f~mble recovery, : 
NEW YORK (UPI)-The top Coopers (Lima, Ohio) 10 • 20 major college football teams tackles and interceptions by : as selected by the 35 member Arnold Carter (Cayce, S.C.) e 
1 • h •: 
r15 t : • 
1966 :•
Wa5 : 
e 

a 10 : 
ng :0 
: 
e 



time ago :• 
: 
e 
: 
e 
United Press International Board and Steve deGrandmaison •••••••••••••••••••• of Coaches with first placf' votes and won-lost records in paren­

Voices from the crowd 
Boilermaker win in South Bend. Recent battles between the collegiate powerhouses have been played for "The Shillelagh" (since 1957) and usually decided by super quarterbacks. However, the Boilers enter Notre Dame Stadium Saturday without the graduated Mike Phipps-master of the Irish for the past three seasons. His replacement sophomore Chuck Piebes (Valhalla, N.Y.) 
called only eight pass plays in the triumph over TCU completing half of them. 
With fullbacks John Bullock (Newport News, Va.) and Bill Corcoran (San Gabriel, Calif.) nursing injuries, DeMoss entrusted his ground game a 1 m 0 s t ex c 1 us i v e 1 y t 0 
sophomore Otis Armstrong (Chicago) and junior Scott Clayton against TCU. The pair responded for 186 of Purdue's 21 7-yard output. Bullock and c 0 r c 0 ran are d 0 u b t ful participants Saturday. 
Purdue's offensive line was one of the most experienced 
collegiate  aggregations  in  the  
country  prior  to  the  season  
opener-not  so  now.  

On one punt center George Buchanan (Harrisburg, Pa.) 
suffered a dislocated knee and will be out for the season and all-Big Ten tackle Paul De Nuccio (Whea ton.Ill.) was 

Purdue rally 
The first of many Beat Purdue rallies starts this evening with a yell session behind Zahm Hall. Tim Kelly, Scott Hempel and Tom Gatewood are the featured speakers. The time for the rally is 10:00 p.m. Terry O'Neil will act as MC for the Zahmbies. 
theses: First week 

I. Texas (22) 1-0 341 Editor: 
2. Ohio St. (I) 0-0 271 3. Penn St. 1-0 202 
After weeks of fanfare,4. Stanford (I) 2-0 201 ABC's Pro Football program
5.Sou.Cal(I)l-O-l 191 
hil prime time last Monday
6

· Missouri (I) 2-0 162 night. It was l wo-thirds of a
7

· Mississippi 1-0 156 success.
8

· Nebraska 1-0-1 147 
We, the fans, were
9. Notre Dame 1-0 136 
I 0. Michigan 1-0 promised the best in NFL
47 
II_ Houston 1_ competition and we got it.
0 36 
12_ UCLA 2_ The Cleveland Browns'
0 17 
"rubber-band" defense bent,
13 16
-Oklahoma 2-0 

but never quite broke, under14. Tennessee 1-0 12 
15 _ Florida 2_ the impact of a really fine
0 9 
16_ Tie Purdue 1_ performance by beautiful
0 6 
Tie Colorado 1_ person Namath.
0 6 We were also promised a18. Arkansas 1-1 5 new half-time format and this19. Tie Auburn 1-0 3 
too was well done. ABC'sTie Washington J-0 3 Sunday replay idea is a greatTie West Virginia 2-0 3 
improvement over the usual 200-piece marching, drum andOther teams receiving votes: fife, flag waving, chorale girl,Air Force, Arizona State Geor­
gia Tech, San Diego State' South I arg,es t-bass-drum-in-the-world, 
Carolina, Texas A&M. ' band from Bayonne, New Jersey. 
knowledgeable and highly competent. "Dandy" Don Meredith is a perfect partner. His technical expertise is above reporach while his Texas drawl and fine sense of humor are in enjoyable contrast to Jackson's matter-of-fact style. 
J'm from the East and have always admired Cosell for speaking his mind. Monday night, however, he showed exquisite bad taste. His pre-game interview with Namath and AI Atkinson was very forced with the two feuding (pre-season, anyway) players looking very uncomfortable. And Cosell's blatant pro-Jet broadcasting was insufferable. 
Apparantly Cosell feels he has a duty to convince the USA that New York teams are superior. Unable to reconcile himself to the score, Cosell constantly cited statistics in an effort to prove to the audience that injustice was being done to the Jets. And after the final Brown interception and touchdown, he sounded almost as if he were in tears. 
l, for one, would thoroughly enjoy hearing 
Jackson and Meredith Monday night. They can great job by themselves.  next do a  
Mike  Pavlin  334 Zahm  

Indispensable! 
FLAIR JEANS 
We now have a brand new shipment of these 
T h i r d I y , we were to experience the ultimate in broadcasting technique with the famed acerbic voice of Howard Cosell joining those of Keith Jackson and Don Meredith. This, if we are to judge from Monday night's broadcast, was a mistake. Supposedly, Cosell was to bring a new, honest approach to TV. No more "sugar-coating" mistakes on the field; Cosell would "tell it like it was." 
Jackson is very 
solid blue wonders...made by Farah for long and rugged wear, plus a bonus of 


MAJOR LEAGUES
easy care. Stock up. 
Fighting Irish Velour Hats... See 'em ! 
Buy and enjoy your apparel now...pay 
ONE THIRD ONE TIHIRD ONE THIRD 
in January in February in March No service or carrying charge added 
AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Pet.  GB  East  w  L  
.535  Baltimore  99  54  
.526  1Y:.  New York  87  67  
.516  3  Boston  81  73  
.471  10  Detroit  76  77  
.458  12  Cleveland  74  80  
.445  14  Washington  70  82  
West  
.626  Minnesota  92  61  
.542  13  Oakland  85  69  
.542  13  California  81  72  
.481  22Y:.  Kansas City  60  92  

East  w  L  
Pittsburgh  82  71  
Chicago  80  72  
New York  79  74  
St. Louis  72  81  
Philadelphia  70  83  
Montreal  68  85  
West  
Cincinnati  97  58  
Los Angeles  83  70  
San Fran.  83  70  
Atlanta  74  80  
Houston  72  81  
San Diego  59  94  

.471 24 .386 37 

Montreal 1 Pittsburgh 0 (1st game) New York at Philadelphia, night Chicago at St. Louis, night San Diego at Atlanta, night Houston at Cincinnati, night San Francisco at Los Angeles, night 
Milwaukee 59 94 Chicago 54 97 

Pet.  GB  
.647  
.565  12Y:.  
.526  18Y:.  
.497  23  
.481  25Y:.  
.461  28Y:.  
.601  
.552  7Y:.  
.529  11  
.395  31Y:.  
.386  33  
.358  37  

Minnesota at Oakland, night California at Milwaukee, night Detroit at Baltimore, night Washington at New York, night Cleveland at Boston, night Kansas City at Chicago (21. night 

Stop in and pick up 
your souvenir stein 
while supply lasts 
ON THE UAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
L-----------------------------------------­






