
~V~0~L~-~~v~·~N~o~-~1~2~4--------------------------~Servmg_th_e__N_u_t_r_e1D_a~"~!:e:a~l=!d~S~a=in:t~M~a~~~v~s~C~o~ll~eg~e~(~(J=m~m~u~n~it~y~--------~~----r-------~T~H~U~R~S~D~A~Y~,~M:A~Y~7~,~1!9~70~ 
Many miss class due to protests 
(UPI) -Hundreds of thou­sands of college students stayed out of classes on campuses throughout the nation yesterday in clamorous protests against the nation's military policies and the killing of four students at Kent State University. 
Gov. Ronald Reagan an­nounced that the University of California's nine campuses and the state's 18 state colleges would close down from mid­night Wednesday through Sun­day in the face of "emotional turmoil." 
The Texas state capitol was evacuated and hundreds of armed Texas Rangers, state troopers and Austin police guarded it against renewal of attacks by University of Texas students. 
In Illinois, Gov. Richard B. Ogilvie ordered 5,000 National Guard troops to the Champaign Urbana campus of the University of Illinois to quell student disturbances. 
National Guardsmen moved back onto the University of Wisconsin campus, where bands of students marched and shout­ed after a mass rally. The Guardsmen used tear gas Tues­day to disperse rock throwing students. 
The hastily organized Na" tiona! Strike Center at Brandeis University in Waltham, Mass., reported strikes were under way at 240 colleges and universities. Half of the affected schools are in New England and New York State. 
District of Columbia police fired dozens of canisters of tear gas at rock and bottle hurling student demonstrators at Ameri­can University in Washington. One student suffered a broken leg, two policemen were injured by flying missiles and at least 14 students were iniured. 
Three university of Mexico students were stabbed -none seriously -in a fight over whether to raise or lower the 
U.S. flag in memory of four Kent State University students. 
Most of the strikes and demonstrations were peaceful. At many schools, only scores or hundreds out of thousands of students were participating. Classes went on normally at hundreds of colleges. But scores of presigious universities had shut down for the day, for the rest of the week and in the case of a few ·for the rest of the academic year. 
Firebombings of ROTC of­fices or other buildings shook some campuses. Buildings were occupied on a few campuses and held by students. 
Evacuation of the Texas capi­tol was ordered by Gov. Preston Smith after a bomb threat was telephoned to security guards and student protesters gathered for a campus rally and threaten­ed a march on the capitol. Police Tuesday hurled tear gas bombs into ranks of screami:1g, chant­ing demonstrators who stormed around the capitol and marched downtown. 
Two New York high schools were--closed and dozens of others reported meager attendance yesterday as thou­sands of secondary school stu­dents joined the nationwide anti-Vietnam War protest mounted by college students. 
Faculty endorses Hesburgh 
In an extraordinary special session yesterday, the faculty voted 21 7 to 134 to support the declaration of Notre Dame Presi­dent Fr. Theodore llesburgh concerning the war in Vietnam and the invasion of Cambodia. 
Included in the resolutin was an appeal to Fr. Hesburgh to travel to Washington to present the declaration in person and, if possible be accompanied by presidents of other universities. The entire resolution follows: 
The faculty uf the University uf Nutre Dame, conscious uf the need for both urder and effec­tive actiun in this extraordinary mument in our histury, and hm,ing met in extraordinary sessiun, hereby publicly expesses its suppurt fur the Declaration made by the President of the University un May 4, 1970 concerning the war in Vietnam and the invasion of Cambodia, and it askes the President of the University, in cuncert with re­presentatives uf uther universi­ties ifpussib/e, tu gu tu Washing­tun in order to present the Declaration tu the appropriate officers of the Congress and tu urge the Congress to undertake, in pursuance ofits cunstitutiunal responsibilities, a comprehensive and fundamental debate on the 
SBP Krashna calls 

STRIKE MEETING 
by Dave Kahn 
Student !Midy President Dave Krashna, chairman of the strike agenda committee, last night called an emergency session of all strikers to meet tonight at 8:00 p.m. in Stepan 
Center. 
Earlier at an ad hoc meeting to determine the direction of the strike, Krashna, in an attempt to consolidate leadership appointed Mark Winings, Jim Leary, Walt Williams, Fred 
Dedrick, Chris Ottenweller, Professors John Houck and William Storey to an agenda committee for the strike meeting tonight. Houck and Storey supported the action but declined membership because they felt the students should manage their own affairs. 
Krashna adjourned the ad hoc meeting and an a pnvate session with the new agenda committee established a single proposal to be set forth at the strike meeting for student appraisal and vote. 
The proposal reads as follows: The Notre Dame Student Strike should be extended to Friday, May 15 in order to achieve the following measures: 
1) Student support and petitioning for Father Hesburgh's attack on President Nixon's Southeast Asian policy. 
2) The establishment of a Communiversity which would program films, teach-ins, seminars, etc. which pertain to all relevant issues. Furthermore, the ~ommuniversity would 
(continued on page 7) 

Thousands participate in Howard Park march 
by Marty Graham 
Over three thousand Notre· Dame, St. Mary's, and South Bend studentS" participated in yesterday's protest march and rally at Howard Park. 
war to be concluded by a vote James Massey, Chairman of the on such measures as may be Student Life Council asked for necessary to achieve the aims of faculty members to volunteer to the Declaration. go into the halls to rap with the Before the actual debate be­students last night and today. gan, it was decided that the Five clipboards circulated for resolution would have to be interested teachers to sign during accepted or rejected as a whole the initial presentations. and no amendments would be Professor Edward Goerner of allowed. Meanwhile, Professor (continued on page 2) 

The march began after a few preliminary instructions from Student Body President Dave Krashna and other strike leaders. Krashna also read a proposal directed to Father Theodore Hesburgh calling for the paid suspension of University workers Friday for the purpose of joining the strike. 
The rally opened wfth a speech from Jim Engel, who recently returned from harvest­ing sugar in Cuba. He spoke on the development of the "third world" and the present revolu­tion in America. 
A girl from Kent State, who was present at the killing the four students, spoke next on 
Fr. Hesburgh and Mr. Faccenda review beginning of yesterday's march 
Strikens are 
'committed' 
says ·Burrell 

1000 hear Strike Mass 
by Mike Chapin 
"Once the hand is laid on the plow anyone who looks back shall never see the kingdom of God," quoted Father Burrell from the gospel at the concel­brated Mass on the main quad yesterday afternoon. He said the students who have moved for the disruption in the normal proceedings because of their concern over the war have committed themselves to live by the spirit of their actions. 
Burrell gave his sermon to a crowd of over I,000 persons sitting around a makeshift altar. His sermon was preceded by a reading from Thomas Merton by Father Amen. The emphasis of the reading was on the importan­ce of finding one's self and being true to one's convictions. 
A small band played folk tunes during the Mass. The crowd was particularly moved when they played "The Great 
(continued on page 7) 

the situation which had existed 
on her campus at the time of the 
killings by National G~ard 
troops. 
She said, "We were going to have a rally at 12:00...We were sitting in a circle on a hill. The national guard came down in jeeps saying 'disperse'." 
A short time later, she said, the troops started lobbing tear gas canisters into the crowd. "Then finally," she stated, "the troops lined up and marched toward us." 
Then she sobbed, "All of a sudden they just turned around and fired." 
A close friend of hers, she said, cradled one of . the dying students, but there was no hope because "his face was blown away." 
Her talk was followed by a high school student and Charles Murphy, a member of the South Bend Council of Churches. 
Rev. Murphy told the crowd, "What you are doing today is exactly what the church should be doing...l look at you and say, 'this is beautiful'." lie concluded his speech by symbolically pointing a gun toward Washing­ton and President Nixon. On the gun was inscribed the single 
word, "Shalom," which means "peace" in Hebrew. "My only message today," he said, "is 'peace'." 
Faculty members William Storey and James Massey spoke next on the faculty endorsement 
of Hesburgh 's declaration con~ 
cerning America's involvement 
in the Indo-China war1 which 
had received 1433 signatures by 
noon yesterday. 
(continued on page 3) 


~ niversity policy hit 
by Ed Ellis 
Richard Hunter, chairman of Hunter, who is head of the the newly-formed Committee campus' Young Democrats and a for Academic Freedom, announ­former senator, had previously ced last night that a petition released a statemeritto Associa­decrying the University's deci­ted Press and United Press sion to close classes as "a International calling the class dangerous precedent" and call­cancellation "a perversion of ing upon the University to leave everything the University pre­the decision to strike or not to tends to be and every concept of strike to the individual had a liberal education in a free garnered five hundred and .fifty society." signatures in a little over an hour fhe reasonmg behind the and would be presented to 
formation of the committee, University President Rev. Theo­according to the statement re­~ore Hesburgh this morning. leased yesterday, is that "the premise of tl!_e strike is contra-
War protesters denied perm it 
WASHINGTON (UPI)'-At the House Saturday at 12 noon,"administration's request a feder­declared Ron Young, projectal judge yesterday refused to director of the coalition of 
issue a permit for a big antiwar antiwar groups. "We are coming 
protest in the White House ...to the doorstep of Mr. Nixon's 
Saturday, but demonstration or­house." 
ganizers said they would mass 
there anyway and invite arrests. 6000 return Joseph Rauh Jr., an attorney 
SAIGON (UPI) -The Southfor the demonstrators, stated, Vietnamese high command an­"There's going to be some real nounced today that 6,000violence here this weekend un­government infantrymen, ran­less a predicted 30,000 protest­gers and armored units are ors are allowed to use Lafayette returning to South Vietnam inSquare, just across Pennsylvania the first withdrawal of AlliedAvenue from the White House." 

forces involved in the current"Don't come in here with Cambodian offensive. 

threats of violence," replied U.S. 
The units were ordered pulledDistrict Judge George J. Hart Jr., 

out of the southern portion of"I'm tired of hearing threats of the Parrot's Beak area about 40•violence. There won't be any miles west of Saigon. Militaryviolence unless they ( demonstra­sources said the withdrawal hadtors) want violence." 

been largely completed. 

At the Justice Department's "The troops have successfully request, Hart waived a require­completed their mission which ment of 15 days notice for such was to destroy Communist base assemblies be filed with District ~mps and supply depots," anof Columbia authorities, and announcement of the Southapproved a permit for a rally at Vietnamese general staff said. Bythe Washington Monument the move, Allied troops involved grounds. 
in operations in Cambodia wereBut he said, "It is entirely cut to less than 45,000 militaryimpossible to make provision for sources said. It followed thethese people at Lafayette start of three new drives into theSquare." 

neighboring country yesterday.

Assistant Attorney William D. 
The withdrawal came afterRucekshaus told Hart the gov­Communist troops in apparenternment thought "it is terribly retaliation against the Alliedimportant" that the demonstra­drives into their formertors be given an opportunity "to sanctuaries in Cambodia slam­express their dissent from the med rockets into South Viet­

President or whatever else they have in mind in full view of the nam's former imperi~i capital.
of Hue, kUHng 12 Ylemamc~"

White House." 
and wounding 21. 

This, he said, could be accom­Near the demilitarized zoneplished from the monument yesterday U.S. forces sufferedgrounds, less than a half mile their highest losses in a singlesouth of the White House on the action in 20 months -29 killedother side of the elipse. 
and 31 wounded.

The Secret Service, said Ruck­The rocket attack on heelshaus, did not believe the northern city of Hue came as anPresident could be adequately armada of U.S. Navy . patrolprotected if the demonstration boats moved upriver into Cam­was held directly in front of the bodia to join fresh Allied troops White House. 
who crossed the border on threeBut the New Mobilization new fronts yesterday in theCommittee immediately announ­war's biggest offensive. 

ced it would proceed with plans Military spokesmen said oneto assemble in Lafayette Square of the six foot long Russianin violation of Hart's decision. 
made rockets exploded in a"We are coming to the White military hospital in Hue killing 

ll Vietnamese and wounding

Petula Clark 
17. Two others impacted in a
Tickets still 
residential area, killing one civi­lian and wounding four. It was the first shelling attac~ on. the 
available 


Friday May 8 
nations's third largest c1ty smce 
Feb. 13.

8:30 PM 


the University in toto joins Hesburgh." This contends, Hun­ter, is dishonesty on the part of the Administration 
The statement was released in behalf of the Committee for Academic Freedom. 
Hunter further revealed that he, Dr. Emil T. Hoffman, and some people yet to be determin­ed would speak before the Alumni Senate on Friday. "We will speak before the Senate whether classes are called off on Friday or not," Hunter said, "because we don't want the University to do anything like this again." 
Hunter suggested the possibili­ty of "non-violent demonstra­tions" in · the Administration building if the Administration continued to close classes be­yond the presently planned limits. 
''I'd really like to see them invoke the fifteen-minute rule against us," Hunter commented. "They couldn't do it. How could they accuse us of disrupting the process of education or denying the rights of others when they had already disrupted the pro­cess of education and denied the rights of others?" 

Faculty endorses Fr. Hesburgh 217-134 
/ 
(continued from page 1) o<'.-:;·/le.. 
the Government Department led off the spekers in support of the resolution. He saw two basic points at issue -the vilidity of the points and the propriety of making a statement. With regard to the latter, he admitted that in the past he had urged faculty. and students alike to avoid making the university a center of activism. However he feels that the university today is not like it was in the past. It is no longer a reflective, speculative, and con­
templative place. 
Restricting himself to the issue of the U.S. entry into Cambodia, Professor William T. Liu of the Sociology Depart­ment also saw reason for a yes vote. In his opinion, the main point is that America cannot win the war. He said that the Chinese communists proved the effec­tiveness of guerrila warfare and that while theUnited States has the power to win by flattening South East Asia, the risk of self-destruction in nuclear war is too great. 

We apologize-But due to the prevailing situation we do not feel that a DUNES trip would b e a p p r 0 p r i a t e ' t h e r e f 0 r e A M E R I CJ~ Is canc e Illn g thIs Sunday's outing. 
Notre Dame's third day of :anti-war protests started early' and slowly. Leafletting in factories in the South Bend area began in the early morning chill at 6:00 a.m. The focus in the factories was to encourage workers to join in the mass demonstration at Howard Park yesterday afternoon. 
Shortly after 10:00 a.m. ano­ther group of students met in front of Washington Hall and then departed for shopping cen­ters, downtown and some resi­dential areas to seek signatures for Father Hesburgh 's petition to President Nixon to end the war in Indo-China. 
The scheduled teach-in on the main quad got off to a slow start. Some of the scheduled speakers began arriving shortly after 9:00a.m., but few students attended. 
Things began to pick up shortly after 10:30 when Rev. 

David Burrel began a rap on the main quad. The crowd grew by ones and twos until it reached a size of nearly one hundred. 
Then Rev. Ernest Bartell, chairman of the economics de­partment, introduced South Bend Black Panther leader Pete Washington. The crowd grew and the discussion was shifted to the speakers rostrum at the corner of Alumni Hall. 
Washington answered ques­tions on the activities of the Black Panther party for a half hour and then Rev. John Walsh, Vice-President for Academic Affairs addressed the crowd. Most of the questions revolved around the role of the Board of Trustees· in policy making deci­sions of the university. 
Several other speakers, includ­ing Professor Peter Walsh and Pro{essor James Massey address­ed the crowd and answered questions before the l: 30 mass 
For the final affirmative state­ment, the sponsors of the motion called upon Professor Houck of the Business Depart­ment. Citing previous similar cases when he defended "insti­tutional neutrality," he asked "are the times critical enough for us to leave that pedistal of institutional neutrality?" Using the precedent set by the Ameri­can Association of University Professors of which he is a member, he concluded that just as they issued a statement asking 
for withdrawal from Vietnam, so should the Notre Dame faculty. 
Since some time remained, Theology professor William Storey also spoke to the assem­bly. He noted that he supported the students although he dis­agreed with some of them. He 
saw Fr. Hesburgh and the statement as well as the various talks of Congressman Lowen­stein as offering a hope. He added that he believed in leader­ship and saw a new example of it in Fr. Hesburgh. 
Professor PauCMcLane of the English Department led the forces opposing the passage of the resolution and he called first upon Dr. Gerhart Niemeyer of the Government Department to present the "con" case. In his address he complained that too many people in the United States take the moral question of the war in Vietnam for granted. 
This is shown, he thinks, by
the fact that it comes up in discussions as immoral without 
~:~n~~n~:~~i~~s:~-o~~;e:~eu:~ 

a long series of events-Greece, Berlin, Korea, and Lebanon preceeding it. He feels that President Nixon's action has rescued the war from meaning­lessness and that while every war is a cause for grief, this is not morally unjustifiable-we are "fighting for the interest of all of those who are unwilling to fall under Communist despot­ism." 
Dr. Bernard Norling, Acting Chairman of the History Depart­ment, added that he felt that if President Nixon's action is suc­cessful, he will pick up congress­ional support, but if not, many Democratic Peace candidates will be elected in November. They would probably put curbs on the war, he added, which should please all who think like Neville Chamberlin · did about Czechoslovakia' "they are a far away people of which we know very little." This he maintained would please those who want to please themselves and take no risk for others. -· Political Science Professor Al.­
fons Beitzinger contended that although the faculty was compe­tent to speak on academic matters (and then only after due deliberation), in matters such as war, their opinions were no better than those of any group of average citizens. 
Of the many possible reasons motivating the motion on the floor, Dr. Beitzinger said that the only one he could under­stand was that of a question of great morality, but that he maintained is a question for 1the individual and not the corporate faculty. 
.-------------------------------~­
THURSDAY, MAY 7, 1970 711B O&rEIHI£It 
PAGE 3 

Kent State slayings to be investigated, 
•

disorders cause debate 1n C::ongress . . 
administra· and to recommend solutions to
WASJIJNGTON (UPI) Presi­dents and his own when Ohio National Guardsmen He sa1d the students, meetmg
dent Nixon yesterday ordered tion. campus problems. He suggested fired into a crowd of threatening with Ehrlichman Tuesday and
"The White House is not the panel include former Chief
his White House staff to compile students. the President Wednesday, "dis­
a thorough report on the Kent sitting here, nor is the President Justice Earl Warren, John W. 
Young blamed what happened cussed in great detail" thein total disregard or without Gardner, former secretary of the
State University violence and to on "trigger happy National factors that led to the confronta­recommend ways to prevent 
concern for the frustrations Department of Health, Educa­Guradsmen who shouldn't have tions.
many young people feel," Press tion and Welfare, and Samcampus disorders. 
been in the National Guard in Nixon's decision to send U.S. 
Alter meeting more than an Secretary Ronald Ziegler told Brown a leader of antiwar the first place but got in there to troops into Cambodia, Ziegler
hour with six Kent State stu­reporters. demonstrations. 
evade the draft." Young called said, fueled some of the dissent,Calls for Commission At the same time Senatordents, Nixon instructed his assis­the guardsmen "high school but was not a predominanttant for domestic affairs, John Nixon acted as Senate Demo­Stephen M. Young, Dem. Ohio graduates and high school drop-factor. "Each of them made the
introduced a resolution that
determine cratic leader Mike Mansfield was
Ehrlichman, to the outs" and said the two top point ... that although Vietnam 
would establish a special Senate
cause of the Kent State rioting calling on the President to officers of the Ohio Guard is one of the things that has led
committee to look ino the four
and to find ways to improve appoint a high level commission 
should be fired. to student unrest, it was not the communications between stu-to investigate the Kent tragedy Kent deaths, _which occurred 
But in the often sharp debate only thing," Ziegler said. that occurred in the Senate, The students were Thomas assistant GOP leader Robert P. Brunbach, 24, Mantua, Ohio;
Protests rocking campuses. 
Griffin of Michigan blamed stu-Richard Cutler, 23, Kent; 
By United Press International-The students agret:Cr to dis-five days. The blaze broke out dent revolutionaries. Donald S. Grant, 22, Ridge­-Purdue University students perse and return to the campus about 4:30 a.m. Damage esti­They are "much worse than wood, N.J.; R. Dean Powell, 24, staged a peaceful march and fire quietly when they were offered mates were not known, but in bums," Griffin said. "They are Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio; Donald G. damaged an ROTC building at a half hour of time by Chuck Friday's fire the estimates were dedicated revolutionaries who Tretinik, 21, Wyckliffe, Ohio; DePauw University yesterday as Weis, news director of Lafayette set at about $10,000. Arson was are trying their best to over-and Samuel Trago, 24, North student protests continued on radio station WASK to air their suspected in the earlier fire and throw the government of the Hampton, Ohio. Indiana campuses against the grievances. was considered in the later one. United States." Ziegler said the six were not 
active in the demonstrations.
Cambodian policy and the stu-The program was taped in the identified RexA man as Ziegler said Nixon decided to
dent slayings at Kent State street for later rebwadcast and Vice, 27, ot Parkersburg, pou~~:;u· "They were simply students 
meet with the Kent State stu­
University. the students returned to the a can of gasoline over himself on dents after learning from Rep. deeply concerned with what 
happened on their campus, whoAn antique dealer described as campus peacefully. Lafayette's the campus of Wabash College at William Stanton, R. Ohio, that car and drove
a non-student set himself afire at other station, WAZY, also taped Crawfordsville, then sat down in got into their to 
they had come to Washington to 
a ritualistic manner with his legs Washington to present theirWabash College in Crawfords-the program for later use. 
explain the causes of the demon­points of
ville, but his apparent suicide At least 25 Purdue students crossed and ignited himself with view," he said. 
strations.
effort was described as "per-were informed they would have a cigaret lighter. sonal" and not part of the to stand trial before a comrnis­Flames Do use<l protests. sion consisting of a faculty 
March successful; rally poor
Students and faculty members About 300 Purdue students member, a student and an rushed to him and extinguished (continued from page 1)Jaunched a protest march to the administration official as sus­go. We will attempt to find the
the flames. He was first listed in 
The policy of this rally was to

downtown area of West La-pects in disrupting a university most effective means and voice
critical condition in an Indiana­
open the microphone to anyone
fayette, in a demonstration function. polis hospital with burns over in withdrawing the troops from
who desired to use it. Student
aimed at the school's administr-The students were charged Vietnam.
more than 90 per cent of his 
leaders were disappointed, how­ation, the Kent State slayings with disrupting ROTC 'award 
body. "I think that some positive
ever, in the calibre of some ofand the Southeast Asia events. presentation ceremonies Friday 
Crawfordsville police said the course be arrived
the speeches that were given. of action can The administration was criti-night at the armory. A university at in the following days. It's toincident had nothing to do with. Krashna stated, "I thought
cized for not haveing acted on officer said they shouted and that end we
recent activity in which students the rally was poor. The march which in student three previous demands made by chanted as they marched government are going to work,"protested the Kent State inci­was very good, however, notvarious student groups in which through the ranks o.f the cadets. 
dent and U.S. intervention in only because of the great num­Winings said. 
authorities were asked to issue a More students could be impli­Metzger stated, "I think the
Cambodia. ber of people involved, butpolicy statement on Southeast cated by the investigation which strike is now ready to determineThe all male student body at because it was done safely andAsia, condemning the Nixon was continued. Bob Rose a positive action, something that
Wabash voted Tuesday to go on efficiently."
Administration; halt all ROTC senior from Elkhart, was 'ar­was not proposed at the rally,strike until Saturday in protest He also said that he does notpro~rams and halt all classified 'rested on assault and battery 
against the Cambodia and Kent problem be something that must now be 
mthtary research on the campus. charges stemming from the inci-believe the can determined if we are to continue
State events. The faculty agreed pinpointed to the speechesThe marchers dwindled to dent. He was freed on $500' the strike. This is what we willto support the strike. themselves, and that those invol­about 85 when they arrived in bond. 
do tonight."
ved in the strike must work
the village shopping area and The fire at DePauw University Rallies are Peaceful "At the march and rally at
closer together to carry it out
were confronted by police. in Greencastle was the second Peaceful rallies also were ob­Leaper Park, we hope to have
effectively.
Giv en Airtimes one in the Air Force building in served by the Herron Arts fewer ego trips in front of the
Student Body Vice President
School at both Indianapolis and microphone and more concrete
Mark Winings stated, ''I'm very
Greencastle campuses. Students proposals for action. In addition, 
Goodell agrees with Hesburgh 
dismayed by the calibre of the 
wore black arm bands and said leafletting will continue, canvas-·
Senator Charles Goodell immoral war in Southeast Asia" speeches at the rally, with the
they would conduct a vigil in ing will be initiated, people will
(Rep, N.Y.) yesterday sent Rev. and that he shared "your horror exception of Massey and Storey.
memory of the clain Kent State be going to Washington, and we
Theodore Hesburgh, President of of the wanton killings that took I considered it meaningless rhe­
students in forn of the school's will begin to negotiate those the University of Notre Dame a _Place yesterday at Kent State." museum in Indianapolis on an toric that detracted from our ideas which come out of 
the

primary objective, that being the 
telegram stating that he joined around the clock basis through general assembly Thursday
stopping of the war in Southeast
Hesburgh "in hard opposition to Goodell also echoed Hes-Sunday. night," Metzger added. 
Asia."
burgh's warning Monday against St. Joseph College also wasextension and expansion of an "I feel that the speeches of
violence on campus saying that the scene of a strike Wednesday. SMC strike talk 
some which tried to incorporate
Williams denies "If the issue becomes violence or About 500 students marched A general meeting of the
every evil of society into our
order in this country, the atten-from the campus to downtown faculty and students of St.
strike, hinders any solid effort
class cancellation tion of the people will be Rensselaer as part of their Mary's to discuss the strike will
Professor George Williams, which might come forth from 
diverted from this escalating and demonstration. be held in SMC's Carroll Hall at
our University," he added. 
Visiting Assistant Professor of 
catastrophic war." A rally attended by an es-1 p.m. today.
Academic Commissioner JimGovernment and International 
Goodell also said that he was timated 3,000 Indiana Universi­Karen Weller, working at the
Metzger stated, "The rally was
Relations, yesterday denied a ty students at Bloomington, new SMC Strike Headquarters in 
report that he cancelled his gettmg "significant support" for disappointing in that so many
backed a teach in for Thursday. 
the Coffeehouse, emphasizedpeople turned out to hear suchclasses for the rest of the his proposal that "Congress Classes, however, were not to be that "this is not a meeting ofdemagogery and cliche ridden
semester. exercise its independent respon-closed down. 
strikers, but a meeting of thespeeches."
The story appeared on the sibility to cut off all funds and The edison School in Ham­members of the community toKrashna, Winings and Metzer,second page of the newly-born require all American military mond, was the scene of a discuss the issue of the strike."
however, were optimistic aboutNotre Dame Daily Striker an­personnel to be withdrawn walkout of bout 25 black The strikers will be there, shethe future of the strike. 
nouncing that "the student forthwith from Vietnam, Laos, students who were angered over said, to explain their stand toKrashna stated, "\Ve are going
strike received a large boost" and Cambodia." the distribution in the city of Ku intP.rested persons. All students,when Dr. Williams cancelled the Klux Klan literature. The three to try to congeal things around a 
He urged Hesburgh to support faculty, and administrators are
classes on Tuesday night. page mimeographed pamphlet common denominator in the encouraged to attend.
The story also stated that all that effort in every peaceable with a Morresville, Ind., return direction we want the strike to wayavailable. ,---~====~========~~====~--------·-----------------,
students in his courses who address, was distributed by out-presently have A or B averages In conclusions, Boodell said, side agitators, Hammond police t h e N 0 W A N D T H EN S H 0 P P E would receive an A for a final "I share your bitterness and said. All New Fashions grade. All other students would furstration. But we who oppose School officials said the walk-Hand Made Custom Fitted receive a B. this evil war will have to act with out was peaceful and they , In a telephone conversation, the restraint needed to make described the literature as de-I 329 Dixie Way North (Roseland) Williams said the ~ report was grading to Negroes. 272-8334 
''l~s'' and ''d~tortion('. He did sure that the government and~------------------~----~-~--------~-------------------------------------~-~ not specifically refer to the the national guard cannot fur­
Frl.

article in the Striker, but he ther indulge in violence and denied cancelling classe~. repre_ss_io_n_._________________j 
open
The Observer is published dally during the college semester 
AMERICA will be and 
except vacations by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, l~otre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage 
Sat. 

paid. Notre Dame Ind. 4 
711B OBSERfiER THURSDAY, MAY 7, 1970
PAGE 4 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
DAVID C. BAC'H,-Editor GAETANO M. De SAPIO. Publisher 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
letter 

Tonight is only Wednesday night, but you can see it coming already. Friday will dawn and there will be a few holdouts, but in general, we will be back to "business as usual" here at Notre Dame. Nothing will have changed much in Cambodia, Vietnam, South Bend, or on campus. What will have happened however is that our rage, fear, and confusion over Nixon's move last Thursday will have been expressed and dissipated. Our heated discussions and impassioned speeches will have relieved our intemal conflicts. Sadly, our activities of the last few days will be revealed for what they were: simply a communal scratching of an irritating mental and moral itch, something quite different from what our personal and national situation calls for. 
At this late date, our naivete is inexcusable. Do we really believe that the fundamental changes we seek can be wrought by two days outbursts and late night debates? Who has deceived us into thinking that the goals we seek can be achieved without a day-to-day engagement that puts personal convenience at the bottom of the list of priorities? Was the strike the most effective action we could think of-or was it the easiest? The men whose names we have invoked would laugh at us. How could Gandhi, Guevara, King, Jefferson, etc. take our brand of "revolutionary commitment" seriously? 
Until we understand the depth of the demand maae on us by our vision, all our strikes, protests, marches, and speeches will be nothing more than a grandiose method of relieving our own problems. Meanwhile, the tanks will keep rolling, the bombs keep falling, and our brothers keep dying. 
Sincerely, 
Jon Nilson 
Theology Dept. 

Ed. note-go to the student assembly tonight and extend your commitment. 
Dave Lammers 

The Sanctuaries 
The past few days have intensified the question that has been in the minds of many of 
us for some time: "Can I serve in the military while the nation is fighting an immoral 
war?'' That agonizing question has forced us to consider the consequences of resistance to 
the draft, leaving the country for Canada, or applying for conscientious objection. For 
the men that are not total pacifists, total conscientious objection is impossible, and 
selective conscientious objection does not exist in the United States. The consequences of 
leaving for Canada or going to prison bring on a sense of aloneness and apprehension, 
because the consequences of those actions are considerable. 
On Monday, Father Hesburgh took a stand, he aligned himself with men that have 
judged the Viet Nam war immoral and unjust, and he did so publicly. That is 
commendable, and now the question arises as to what Father Hesburgh's action will be. 
He has taken a moral stand similar to many students, but the day-to-day consequences of 
his moral stand are not the same as ours. 
What could be a response of Father Hesburgh and the faculty to our present dilemma? 
How can the community create a situation so that a person would not have to make his 
decision alone and would not bear the consequences of that decision alone? Alone, I am 
nothing; I have little power to make my voice heard, I have little ability to stand before 
the might of the state, I have little ability to protect my moral stance against the courts 
and prison and the prospect of no job. Together with Father Hesburgh and the 
administrators, together with the faculty, students that resist the Vietnam war have at 
least a chance. 

How could a-~nct~ray be created? What would a sanctuary be? 
First, the university would never officially become a haven for resisters and the administrators would never allocate funds to feed, house, and give legal assistance to, several hundred ·men committed to non-participation in the war. But individual administrators that are committed to helping students could give their individual assistance, and in the case of Father Hesburgh this could be immense. Perhaps one of the dormitories could be used; perhaps jobs on campus could be provided. Faculty that have law degrees could give free legal assistance to men that challenge the constitutionality of the CO law or the constitutiona'lity of the present war. Perhaps faculty members would join with the students to the extent that they would stand with them before the punishment of the state. 
Student government could play an enormous role. A referendum to the student body 
could allow part of the $96,000 that student government has to be spent on the costs of 
protecting the members in the sanctuary. Other means for students raising the funds are 
available. 

The sanctuary would be voluntary, it would allow older men to contribute their time, their knowledge, their moral support, and perhaps their money to a group of students resisting what they have judged to be an immoral and unjust war. It is a means for Father Hesburgh to take a concrete action as an individual, a means for him to respond as an individual to the moral dillemna that many of his students are going to face alone unless the community acts. 
One suggestion that I would offer is that Professor Charles McCarthy, who has a law 
degree and is looking for a job next year, be employed by Student Government to act as 
legal advisor and general c~rdinator of the proposed sanctuary. 
The community must stand together now, or we will be picked off individually. The 
senior members of the community could voluntarily contribute their services and 
support. We have joined together for marches, fasts, and rallies, but these things will soon 
pass, and men will be left alone and vulnerable unless we act together to create a 
sanctuary. 


Of course It's OK to open fire......Didn't the Vice President say these punks were no good!" 
Glen Corso==========:­
Despair 
The Soit. Parade 

In his stirring speech the other night, Representative Allard 
Lowenstein spoke of the need for a change. He cried out against 
what he rightly considered idiotic budget priorities. He argued 
against giving the military a carte blanche authorization, w!lilte 
seriously undercutting the monies for domestic proposals. He also 
decried the obvious hypocisy that is rife in our legislature ­
domestic funds are decried as inflationary while most military funds 
are passed without a whimper of protest. 
However it is pointless to list what I agreed with Mr. Lowenstein 
about. Those who know me, must realize that I emphatically reject 
the type of foreign policy that Mr. Lowenstein advocates. Howev1~r 
that is not what I want to talk about. 
Mr. Lowenstein mentioned the despair that young people feel. 
Much as I hate being lumped under that all inclusive title -young 
people -I would have to agree with him. I, along with ~any oth,er 
young people feel an ever deepening despair. The reasons for rny 
despair are radically different from those which cause this feeling in 
others. 
Lowenstein saiq he didn't .feel the despair that young people did. 
In the sense he meant I agree with him. As far as the solution of the 
various probelms the country faces, I am optimistic. I have littl1~ 
doubt that the present order of things can be changed for the better 
and I think that people are starting to realize that they can work for 
change-now and effect it soon. 
The type of despair that I experience will never be able to be changed by the actions of an Allard Lowenstein, since people like him are the cause of it. I honestly feel that once my generation assumes the reins of power, it will signal the beginning of the end of the United States as a sovereign nation. I, quite frankly, have no faith wl\.atsoever in my generation. Perhaps I am being excessively pessimistic. Yet looking at the events of the past few days where large numbers of students have turned to violence because their demands have been thwarted, I shudder for our nation. We are as Dave Krashna put it the leaders of tomorrow. Yet what type of, leaders will we become? 
Will we be the type of people that substitute emotion, for reason or irrationality for logic? I think so. We seem all too ready to accept statements as facts, without questioning them as long as they come from people who agree with us. We readily reject the statements of people that don't agree with us with arrogance, because of our stubborn pride. We refuse to accept the fact that many things that people do are not done with devious motives in mind. We seek to negate or circumvent laws that we don't agree with. We grow frustrated when the government doesn't instantly respond to our wishes and tum to mob action and violence in attempts to intimidate existing bodies into following the course of action dictated by the strident voices among us. In our blindness we venerate individuals, who in an earlier day would have been branded for what they were common criminals because they espouse the same ideals many of us hold. 
The attitude underlying the philosophy held by many students today is pockmarked with naievete. We crow about immedia1te withdrawal from Vietnam, without even bothering to think about the consequences. We crow about how it is good that this country is 
undergoing a near defeat in southeast Asia without bothering to face up to the painful fact that the strength of America is the only thing that blocks the Russians, Chinese and Cubans from extending either direct or indirect influence over great areas of the world. If we ar~e seriously weakened, by having any communist nation carving out a greater sphere of influence, it will not only hurt us, but the rest of the non-communist world as well. Yet I realize this view is not in vogue today, so I shall rest my argument. 
I wish I could extend as optimistic a feeling as was exhibited by one of the greatest Americans recently when he said "I know that my redeemer liveth." For our generation I fear there will be none. 
THURSDAY, MAY 7, 1970 THE OBSEilfiM 
Niemeyer on Cambodia 
Yesterday, Dr. Gerhart Niemeyer, a professor in the Government department at Notre Dame. was interviewed by Observer News Editor Steve Hoffman. Dr. Niemeyer, who received his doctorate from Kiel University in Germany, teaches courses in Political 
Theory and Communist ideology. 
Observer: Much of the uproar of the past few days has been based upon the assertion that President Nixon's decision to extend U.S. military forces into Cambodia is a usurpation of Congressional power. Is this a valid complaint? 
Niemeyer: First of aU, let me say that there has been no declaration of war in this case. If there was one, against whom would it be directed? Since the National Liberation Front and the Viet Cong are not legitimate g."Jvernments, war could not be declared against them. The situation resembles Chinese intervention in Korea, when Peking never saw fit to declare war. Further, Congress has gone along with the war for several years. Its argument now comes too 
late. Observer: In your opinion, what factor or factors have provoked such unflinching rejection of Ad­ministration foreign policy, especially on college campuses? Niemeyer: I interpret this as a aeneral · re­volutionary attitude against all society. As a rejection of society as a whole, it follows that this feeling would also be directed against what the society does outside its borders. The rejection of Administration policy is symptomatic of far deeper causes of discontent, which can be identified as vacant dreams of a perfect society free of wars, evil and social ills .. Observer: What effect do you feel the President's action will have upon the current process of Vietnamization? Niemeyer: I foresee a favorable, a decidedly favorable effect on the process of Vietnamization. The South Vietnamese have respond.~~ with a great deal of spirit to the President's ~o.~(idence in Vietnamization, and I fail to see that this process will be greatly altered by his action. 
Observer: In a larger sinse, how do you conceive of the position of United States in the world? Have we misjudged our priorities? 
Niemeyer: No, I don't believe that we are guilty of 
misjudgement. Within the system of alliances in 
operation throughout the world, we are the kingpins. 

Professor Gerhart Niemeyer 

There can be no getting away from this fact. Nor is 
there any country capable of replacing us in this role. 
Other countries would surely collapse under the force 
of communism if we were to abdicate our 
responsibility. 
Observer: Student discontent with the Cambodia 
situation has evoked denouncement and feverish 
protest on several college campuses. Do you believe 
that the current strikes in effect here and elsewhere 
are wellfounded? 
Niemeyer: No, I must maintain that these protests 
are not well-founded. President Nixon's decision 
concerning Cambodia is a prudential one. Those who 
disagree would apparently have made a different decisiOn. IQ my mind, no protest is called for. Disagreements in the realm of prudence may occur at any time. Clearly the President is not to be denounced as a criminal for making what he believes to be a wise and orudent tf.,cision. 
Observer: How do you interpret the strategy behind the President's move? Do you agree with this strategy? 
Niemeyer: I understand the stratergy to be one of making sure, by paralyzing North Vietnamese supply routes, that no catastrophe befalls the American troops as they leave. The idea is to prevent the whole 
house from falling down as we walk out the door. 
Five years of effort must not be allowed to go in vain. 
I agree with this stratergy. 
Observer: President Nixon has informed Congress 
that U.S. intervention in Cambodia will not be 
prolonged one, but one that will fulfill itself within 
six to eight weeks. Do you feel that, in actuality, he 
has committed the U.S. to Cambodia for an indefinite 
penoct of time? 

Niemeyer: No, I don't believe so. However, 
cannot agree with the limitations the President has 
fixed. I feel it to be impossible and foolish to set such 
dates. It appears that the pressure of criticism has 
imposed these limits. While I believe that we will not 
stay any longer, I fear that we may move out and 
leave the job unfinished. I'm keeping my fingers 
crossed that these fears won't be justified. 
Observer: Do you believe that the United States 
will go to any .lengths necessary to solidify the 
present Lon No! regime in Cambodia? 
Niemeyer: I fail to see any such attempt in the 
President's strategy. Intervention in a civil struJgle in 
Cambodia is not the meaning of his move. 
· Observer: How do yoe assess the effects of the 
current demonstrations as potentially capable of 
dividing the country? Do you feel that the people 
involved in these demonstrations actually 
comprehend the gravity of these effects? 
Niemeyer: I believe that the divisive effects of the 
past few days will be very strong. To illustrate, I 
would point to Rhodes' defeat in Ohio in the 
aftermath of Kent State. (Governor James Rhodes 
was defeated by Congressman Robert Taft in 
Tuesday's Senatorial primary in Ohio.) Such a drop in 
the vote for Rhodes, who ordered the troops onto the 
Kent State campus, see,ms to point to an increasing 
division within the country. As to whether people 
truly comprehend the potential · diviseness of these 
demonstrations, I would guess that they would not, 
even though I can't say for certain what goes on in 
another person's mind. 

Observer: Assuming that President Nixon fails to achieve his intended objectives in Cambodia, do you believe that the people .of this country will tum from him? 
Niemeyer: If this action turns out to be failure, it will be quite disastrous for the Administration. The consequences will indeed be grave for its future. 

Youngbloods Revisited 

Just who in hell are the Youngbloods, anyway? 
Somebody asked me that once, which is a really good thiag to ask a Youngbloods freak. Youngbloods freaks are, yot· see, much like Tom Rush frC'aks, Tommy Flanders freaks and Dave Von Ronk freaks. They love to be asked who the object of their particular freakiness is, hccat•se that tells them (us) that you don't really know anythi•1g about this particular 1!111f ·or group, which is very pleasing to therr (our) ears. Few pleasures i!J. life compare with the feeling of sheer e~stasy one can achieve bv standing in a group of people. and praismg lne talents of the Electric Doorknob (who are they? Exactly!) while categorically denounciag the likes of Led Zeppelin and Janis Joplin and other popular (disgust) artists. 
Anyway, who the Youngbloods are are (is?) undoubtedly (he said without reservation) one of the best American rock groups ever, like one of the three or four best. Also, who they are (or who.a lot of them are. anyway) is Jesse Colin Young: Jesse Colin Young is the Young­bloods which is not to say that there aren't. <tth~~ Y.oungbloods, but justthat they· . J.ou!dn 't be the Youngbloods 
without Jesse Colin Young. (END OF SEMI, BEGINNING OF REVIEW) There's a new album on Mercury (SR-61273) called Two Trips With Jesse Colin Young. It's one of those new things made up of old things, like "The Early Youngbloods," or something like that, if you must. Unlike many new releases of old tapes ( ... "Improvising, jamming, squeezing and shaping a musical thing which lasted for twenty minutes and 
finally broke into The Pusher (big deal), this one has some very good stuff iri it. 
The first side consists of five Young­bloods tracks that never got released before. The material isn't quite up to the stuff on the real Y oungbloods albums, but the performance and sound are fine. Four of the five tunes are written by Young; the other by Jerry Corbitt. It's 
regular Young bloods stuff-traditional, simple and beautiful, the kind of stuff that most anyone should be able to do well, except that not too many people can, and certainly no one can do it like the Y oungbloods. The sounds that the Y oungbloods make with guitars and pianos and drums are the kind of sounds that should be made with guitars and pianos and drums: just kind of real nice and perfect (well look, nobody here understands all that technical crap any­
way, right?). With Young on the vocals­l,more later-everything comes out real good. 
Side'\two ofthe album is six cuts from Young's second ~olo album on Mercury ('64 or '65) YounKJBlood. This is where it really gets good. Most of it is Young accompanying himself on guitar with John Sebastian (who else) on harp and Peter Childs (I don't know either, but there's his name right next to Sebastian's) on dobro. I guess that this is where we find out some stuff about Jesse Colin Young. 
Whether Young has written the song or not, it is always simple, straightforward and fantastic. His guitar work is absolute­ly un-sensational and absolutely perfect; great rhythm and tremendous sound. His singing-well God, that voice! -is so nice, so tasteful. Somehow he manages to mix up the traditions of rural blues, folk and early (like Elvis) rock into this beautiful style that never stretches beyond its reach and always seems to fit the song perfectly. Like who else could have sung "Get Together" like that. Lots of people tried, but well, nobody quite makes it like Young does. 
Young shows about as much versatility as I guess you can expect from an artist with a distinctive style. He has a song called "Summer Rain", very similar to the Y oungbloods' "Sunlight," that char­acterizes the kind of soft, pretty melody 
that he is so good at. "Walkin' off the 
Blues" is a simple, happy, soft-shoe type 
thing that contrasts nicely with the last 
cut on the album, Lullabye. Lul/abye is 
that real· nice thing with the vibes for the 
harmonics on Tom Rush's latest album; 
Young wrote it. Probably the best thing 
on the disc is Young's version of "Brother 
Can You Spare A Dime", which is 
dynamite material to begin with, and his 
interpretation maJ<es 1t sound like ifwas 
written just for him. 

If you haven't gotten the point yet, 
one of the nicest things about what 
Young and the. Youngbloods do is their 
simple and unpreter:tious manner. What 
they're out to do is make music that's 
nice to listen to. 
(Jesse Colin Youmz) 

"Then in the morning when you rub 
your sleepy eyes 

We'll go catch ourselves some old 
catfish down by the riverside 
Hushabye my baby 
Hushabye my darling child 

'Cause you can tell, you know dam 
well Your daddy wouldn't lie to you" 
(David Crosby) " ...but don't, no don't try -to get yourself elected If you do you'd better cut your hair" Yeah, right. 


PAGJ;6 


M~<;arthy blasts war, proposes N D sanctuary 
Father James Riehle, Dean of Students, and Professor Charles McCarthy, Director of the Program for Nonviolence, discussed at Howard Hall last night the current strike and our country's activity in Indochina. 
"Personally I was against the strike because I was quite satisfied with the moratorium in October," Father Riehle began. He noted that, in spite of what President Nixon had said, the autumn activities did influence his policy. 
"At any rate, I'm quite happy with the way the strike's been going," Riehle continued. His only concern was that some students object to having classes called off. In fact, he said six students have already-seen him about getting their money back for the missed day. 
Professor McCarthy also has reservations about the strike. "I don't know if it's a good idea. I'm hardpressed to see that it's accomplishing anything," he said. 
In emphasizing detrimental aspects of the !)trike McCarthy noted, "There is at Notn: Dame an ultra-left ready to capitalize on action and confrontation. A few people can catalyze disas­trous action." 
McCarthy devoted the remain­der of his remarks to the war itself. "The question you have to ask yourself is 'Is it a just war'?'' he said. 
He went on to enumerate the standards by which a Christian can determine whether or not a war is just. He maintained that it must be justly instituted, have a just cause, and utilize just means. McCarthy emphasized that a war must be all three to be considered just. 
In applying the first standard -that a war must be justly -instituted-to the war in Viet­nam, McCarthy noted that Con­gress has yet to officially declare war. He added that the Tonkin Resolution, which was authoriz­ed most of our action in the war, was procured via President John-
son's lies to Congress. McCarthy then skipped to the 

G P.students, profs draft series of idea! ~;:~~~n;e:~~d:;~:::~t;~~t!~ 
The following statement was South Bend who are hungry and released to The Observer last cannot afford food of their own. night. We urge the contacting of the 
On the night of May 5th and National Students Association to the morning of May 6th, a group support and back an economic of General Program majors and boycott of all luxuries: records, profs got together with a few movies, cosmetics, liquor, etc. 
other concerned students to We pledge our co-operation discuss the situation of our with the NSA in their nation-country and this University on wide effort to urge people to strike. withdraw their checking and 
Tired of the rhetoric that only saving accounts on Monday, May breeds disorder and arouses II, 1970. tempers to irrational anger and We wish to provide the means disgust, we decided that for the of a dialogue with the South strike to be effective, we must Bend Community, with her come up with some concrete business, religious, student, and ideas that will supply political labor leaders. This could be in leverage in crucial areas. the form of aiscussion by -We would like to share these invitation to their places of 
ideas with our larger communi-activity. The discussion leaders ty. could be drawn from the list of · We are committed to the faculty members who expressed sanctuary of a University thatat a willingness to do such work at promotes and maintains the free the faculty senate meeting yes-discussion of ideas, as well as the terday. _ __ employment of rationality and -We urge that all students from human compassion in all her NO-and SMC go" into South dP~lin~~ Bend tomorrow in pairs and 
We feel that our first objective gently approach the townspeo­is to preserve this University and ple to sign the Hesburgh peti­her community of dialQ.gue. tion. 
We urge the students of Notre We urge that a group of Dame and St. Mary's to share students prepare a rationale and our food with the people in approach the heads of the South 

South Bend, Ind. Student Rates 234-0811 By Appt 
third standard,that a war must utilize just means. He said, "There comes a time when the means being used against evil are more evil than the evil against which it is being directed." 
ln applying this standard to Vietnam, McCarthy referred to a speech by Robert Kennedy that said the U_!lit~ S_J_ate~ !s!jirectly responsible for 300,000-civili!iii deaths in Indochina. McCarthy recognized this number of deaths as an indication of unjust methods being used. 
"If the war is not just and if you are a Catholic, you cannot 
participate in the war because to 

Marchers view of South Bend
do so would be murder," Me-earthy affirmed. When questioned about the reliction Notre Dame students 

Cambodia invaded 
can have to the war, McCarthy said, "It is very possible for us to SAIGON (UPI)-An armada of set up at Notre Dame a sane-U.S. Navy patrol boats moved tuary where we can stand upriver into Cambodia yesterday together and co-operate to-to join thousands of fresh Allied gether." Such a sanctuary would troops who crossed the border provide students with a unified on three new fronts in the war's 
effort to resist induction into biggest offensive. But inside the armed services, McCarthy 
South Vietnam a furious North

contended v· k kill d
1etnamese attac e 29 

___J State University. 
Hend Police Department, the St. Joseph's Sheriffs Department, and the local chapter of the National Guard. 
We urge all the students of this community to get on the typewriter and write letters to 
the large TV networks, NBC and CBS and ABC explaining why they are striking and why they are dissatisfied with the situation in Indo-China. These letters could also be written to the South Bend Tribune. 
We urge the centralization of strike news on campus. We also urge the Observer to print up copies of Allard Lowenstein's speech as well as information for resisting tax laws and the tele­phone tax which supports the war. 
We urge WNDU to invite professors to speak on the air and share their expertise with the community. 
We suggest that for those who 
, wish to slow down the workings of their local draft board to send any and all materials to them. They are required by LAW to put everything one sends on file. Be sure that you state that the materials are pertinent to your beliefs. Also we urge all students to get pictures of death and destruction to their Congress­men, and Senators and Draft Boards. 
We suggest that the Admini­stration of Notre Dame and St. Mary's give academic credit for the rest of the semester to any student who has secured a job in his or her community that will in any way contribute to stop­ping the war in Viet Nam or C'.ambodia. 
We urge that these same administrations act now in call­ing two weeks off next semester in order that students may work in local elections. 
We urge all parents to send telegrams to their Senators and Congressmen asking them to support the bills by McCloskey and Lowenstein as well as the one authored by Charles Good­ell. 
We solemnly urge all students from this day forward to refer to 
•he former Grace Ball as the Kent 

1emorial Tower in honor of the . tour students who died at Kent 50,000 U.S. and South Viet­namese troops were operating inside Cambodia in seven areas from the upper Mekong Delta to the central highlands. Front line reports said American tanks and aircraft strikes that included 
napalm drops against Commu­nist defenders destroyed the town of Snoul inside Cambodia on Tuesday. UPI correspondent Leon Daniel reported some of the Gl's looted goods from deserted shops Wednesday as they swept through the town of 10,000 in the heart of rubber plantation country. 
Join Offensive Three more Allied columns struck into Cambodia Wednes­day and at least 50 U.S. Navy river patrol boats -heavily armed 50 foot craft -joined the 
offensive by moving into Cam­bodia along the Kham Spean River 65 miles northwest of 
Saigon. Each vessel carried a crew of four to six sailors. 
The Navy vessels came under flre less than two miles after they crossed the border but there were no immediate reports of casualties, UPI correspondent Robert Kaylor reported. It was the first U.S. Navy commitment to the Cambodian campaign. 
Kaylor reported that at least 
43 Communists and four Ameri­
cans were killed in the first 
hours of one of Wednesday's 
new sweeps -made by a brigade 
sized task force of the U.S. 25th 

Infantry· Division into the Dog's 
Head sector 65 miles northwest 
of Saigon. 
Two of the Americans were 

killed when U.S. artillery shells 
fell short of their target in the 
initial stages of the operation 
called "Bold Lancer." 
But in South Vietnam, 
Communist forces operating 16 
miles below the Demilitarized 
Zone border DMZ early Wednes­
day attacked an Allied paratroop 
artillery base and inflicted nearly 
as many casualties as the Ameri­
cans have suffered in a week of 
fighting inside Cambodia U.S. 
spokesmen said. 
U.S. Casualties The assault on First Support Base "Henderson" in Quang Tri province killed at least 29 men of the lOlst U.S. Airbornt! Division and wounded 31 others. The losses were among tht! heaviest taken by a U.S. unit in a single action in South Vietnam in at least 20 months. Allied reports said the fighting in Cambodia over the past week by a combined U.S. South Vietnamese offensive has killed about 2,800 North Vietnames1~ and Viet Cong troops, whi11e American casualties on the driv'e have been at least 30 killed and 70 wounded On still another front, Cam­bodian armored units rolled south from the capital of Phnom Penh on both sides of th1~ Mekong River Wednesday to­ward a Vietnamese Communist stronghold at Neak Leung, a 
ferry crossing and potential Communist escape route 
Electoral activists to meet in Walsh 

A meeting of St. Mary's and 
Notre Dame students concerned 
with electoral activity to halt the 
war will be held in the basement 
of Walsh Hall, Sunday, May 10, 
at ll p.m. 

The purpose of the meeting is 
to discuss and formulate ways of 
aiding the re-election of anti-war 
candidates in the nation and 
particularly in Indiana. 

The meeting is open to alll 
.5tudents. Those who are resi­
dents of Indiana or plan t-o 
spend either the summer or next 
year in the state are especially 
encouraged to attend. 

Senator Vance Hartke, aDem­
ocrat from Indiana was one of 
the earliest critics of the war and 
has consistently opposed expa,n­
sion of the war, the military­
industrial complex and military 
influence in foreign policy deci­
sions. The Senator is up for 
re-election this fall and reporte:d­
ly faces stiff opposition due to 
his liberal voting record. 

Richard Fatime, a member of 
Senator Hartke's Washington 
staff, will be on hand to answer 
questions concerning student aid 
in the Senator's re-election. 
Fati:nc stated that "both the 
Senator and his staff consider 
this election crucial for not only 
the Senator himst:lf, but for all 
anti-war candidates and the 
future of the student peace 
movement." 

THURSDAY, MAY 7, 1970 THE OBSUJJM 
PAGE 7 

Leaders to accentuate action plans
(continued ]rum page 1) cooramated to canvas the entire 
formulated tonight. All other offensive which the former com­for the strike mt:t:tlng Thursday 
provide a forum for all campus city. Dedrick urged Krashna to issues WQU!d be given forum at mittee had lost in an attempt to so that we may avoid future 
special interest groups which extend the strike to accommo­open meetings next week." provide expression ft... <111 cam­inefficiency," he said. have materialized around the date what he feels may termi­Procedure for the meeting pus special interest groups. 
strike (e.g. Abolish ROTC, Cam-nate in positive electoral results. Thursday entails a presentation Krashna was particularly con­The Agenda Committee will pus Workers, Racism, Sexism, Krashna in a statement releas-of the proposal and a half hoJJL cerned about the confusion meet at 12:00 noon in closed 
Sanctuarv. etc.) 
With regard to the first measure, Krashna scored an extensive canvassing project ini­tiated by Fred Dedrick for South Bend signatures approving 
of llesburgh's declaration. Dedrick has announced invol­vement of at lea~t 300 students. 
ed to the press at midnight last night stressed concern for lesser issues of the strike, but hoped that they would not interfere with the strike meeting on Thursday. 
"It is essential," Krashna said, "that the meeting be directed to the one proposal which we have 
Fr. Burrel speaks 
(continued from page 1) After the sermon Father Bur-Mandella" and "Where Have All rell asked the people to crowd h 1'1 G ?" closer to the altar for the
t e · owers one. 
Burrell expressed the "utter offertory. Wine was poured into 
. t d ·t f a number of chalices and passed
1mpor ance an necess1 y o 
what we have done," and a!-_a_m_o_n.:g:_t_h_e_w_o_r_s_h_:ip_e_r_s. 
though our actions have "fright­
ened us all" we cannot look 
back. 
"We have been invited to take 
a step that will change our 
lives ... " he said. He cautioned 
against the feeling that "the 
world is a bag of problems for 
which there are immediate solu­
tions." Burrell thought that this 
attitude leads towards violence 
and rash actions. 
We should be . willing to take 
the long journey and not a 
"trip," Burrell warned, and he 
told the audience that the spirit 
exists among the students for 
that journey towards change. 
The change mav make "life look 
vastly different five years from 
now." 
"We do not have to worry about the people who took off for the dunes or went home... What we have done the past few days is important," he said. ''Our spirit is responsible to the spirits of all our brothers." 
This spirit does not let us ask 
''What should I do?" but rather 
"Where am I, on a journey or a 
trip!" Burrell said. 
Students launch letter campaign to home papers 
Last evening, a group of Notre Dame students met in the hope of implementing recent campus activities protesting the Presi­dent's decision to invade Cam­bodia. Among other things, they decided to launch an immediate letter-writing campaign aimed at home town newspapers. 
It is their hope that such an effort would broaden support and awareness of the Univer­sity's stance against President Nixon's action. The influence of Father Hesburgh's statement along with the Notre Dame community's support of it, they feel, should prove to be a valuable means of influencing the general public's attitude on Cambodia. 
Dan Oberst, a Notre Dame senior and the organizer of the campaign, said that it is his hope that students will also take part in a letter-writing campaign direc ted at their respective Senators and Representatives in Congress. 
All Notre Dame and SMC students are urged to take part in this campaign for they con­sider it a unique opportunity to go outside of the confines of the University. 
Any N D student interested in becoming involved in this pro­ject should contact Dan imme­diately at II 04 Flanner (phone: 1528). St. Mary's students should contact Barb Newton at of floor questions with individ­ual speakers limited to two minutes. Subsequent to the debates, Hall Presidents and the Off-Campus representatives will caucus with their respective constituencies present at the meeting to determine the con­census of their halls. After 45 minutes of caucusing, Hall Presi­
dents will present a head count 
of those present for or against the resolution. The meeting will then be adjourned. 
The new strike administration advised by faculty and student opinion is orientated to provid­
in_,;g~n~e=V!~_=fo~_~~u=_S=9=!1'--th_e_I_n_d_o_-C_h_in_a 
1 
You only go around once in life.. So grnb for all the gusto you can. Even in the beer you drink. Why settle for less? 
When you're out of Schlitz, you're out of beer. 
experienced at the Howard Park Rally Wednesday afternoon. "We have formulated an agenda ' 
Nixon's disregard 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Inter­ior Secretary Walter J. Hickel criticized the adrninistration's alleged disregard for youthful protest yesterday. In a letter to 
President Nixon he warned the American revolution resulted from unheeded protests. The White House confirmed that it had received the letter,signed "Faithfully yours, Wal­
aidly," but Press Secretary Ron 

session in the SBP office to determine the nature and direct­ion of any future activity. 

blasted by Hickel 
L. Ziegler said the President had not yet seen it. 
"Certainly there is no lack of concern or focus of attention on the part of the administration " Zie_&er said. ' 
"Addressed either politically or philosophically, I believe we are in error if we set out consciously to alienate those who could be our friends," Hickel said. 
4562. ~--===-~~~----------------------------------------------------------------­
f 
THURSDAY, MAY 7, 1970
TIIB o.&IZRfJSt

PAGE JJ 
Crew-more than just strong· arms 

by Briice Kennedy Observer Sports Writer 
When guys are shelling out 80 bucks a piece just to get to and from races, you know they're 
·not just "messing around." The members of the Rowing Club are not receiving fame or prizes for their sacrifice of time, energy, and money, but are finding only personal and collective satisfac­tion. 
The club receives a $500 contribution from the University but since expenses are much more, the members are frequent-
JIM MORRAY 
ly reaching into their own pockets to keep the ciub going. And beside the financial strain, the crew has also spent time every night out at St. Joseph's River working hard and practic­·ing to have a successful crew. 
The crew closes the 1970 season this weekend against 26 small colleges in Philadelphia's Dad Vail Tournament. Though the three teams, varsity, JV, and No. 3 have combined for a 6-14 slate, the record is not really accurate in showing the team's success and improvement over a 

Federal Aid for Kuhb 
e ....,._ .....--.... 


(News Headline: ·"";'Bowie Kuhn, Commissioner of Baseball, Consults With President on Denny McLain Case, Says White House Is in Complete Accord With Action Taken.") 
We take you now to the Oval Room at 1600 Pennsylvania Ave., where the President of the United States is picking up the phone: 
President: "Hello, hello? Commissioner Kuhn? Yes, how are you? (Puts hands over mouthpiece, turns to secretary: "Find out what Kuhn is commissioner of. Try Interior first.") Returns to phone: "Ye!>, Commissioner, go on. The McLain case?! Well, now, let me be perfectly clear on that. Let there be no mistaking our position on that." 
Turns to secretary desperately: ("Did you ever find out what he's commissioner of?") Returns to phone: "Yes, Commissioner, we are working on the McLain case. And let me say, let me be perfectly clear on this-er, now which McLain are we talking about here? (Aside to secretary: "Look under 'M' or 'Mac' for 'McLain."') What? Oh, yes, Commissioner, THAT McLain! (To secretary: "Never mind. I've got it.") 
Yes, Commissioner, I am current on that problem. Now, then, 
there are several procedures open to us. Would you like us to send 
the troops in? I mean, I can have the National Guard take over the 
Detroit pitching staff. What? Just a minute, let me turn down the 
television set and shut off this phone to Houston Control. 
"What? No, no, it's nothing important. We've got a couple of astronauts lost up in space. There's a revolt in the Bananacan Republic, and they've kidnapped our ambassador to Jungleland. The Chinese have· set off another bomb. They've turned down my nominee, Simon Legree, for the Supreme Court. Spiro Agnew has denounced the Girl Scouts. Nothing that can't wait. The McLain case is a clear and present danger to the American way of life. 
(To Secretary: "Miss Sunbonnett, hold all my calls. Get Atty. Gen. Mitchell in here on the double. Tell him I'm working on an internal security problem of the highest priority. Use the code name 'Operation Curve ball."') 
"Now, then, Commissioner Kuhn, the first thing you'll need to 
see this through is an appropriation. The first thing we've got to do 
is get this thing funded. I would suggest we work through Health, 
Education and Welfare. Make it Bob Finch's baby. (Aside to 
secretary: "Miss Sunbonnett, get Bob Finch in here for a briefing. 
Emphasize there is to be ABSOLUTELY no leak to the press on this 
or we'll cut off the mailing list of Moynihan memoes.") 
"No, no, Commissioner, there are plenty of funds for this sort of 
thing. Will a billion do? We can put it through as aid to the ecology. 
After all, it will stop the pollution of the Detroit River. Keep Detroit 
purple, so to speak. 
"Now, then, here's Atty. Gen. Mitchell. He says the first thing you have to do is subpoena the notes from the pressbox, from the sportswriters. You already have? You have six bushel baskets of notes on the back of envelopes saying, 'Don't forget to pick up the 
instant cofee on the way home' and' 'Leave two tickets for Uncle Louie' and three baskets of 'Please remit, or we'll place this matter in the hands of our collectors'? 
"Well, now, if you think six months is sufficient suspension ...Do I think I can guarantee you backing on the part of the courts? Well, up to a month ago, I would have said yes. But with this bunch, you're liable to find that a player not only has a right but a duty to gamble on games. Jack the Ripper would have been guilty only of littering the sidewalks. 
"We've had a lot of success with a 'leave it to the states' policy. Can't you say it's a league matter? I've got a lot of admiration for the way you fellows let jurisdiction fall between two chairs. Only the other day I was saying to Pat, 'I sure wish l could do like those fellows in baseball and threaten to transfer the country if I don't get 
my way.' 
"No, Commissioner, don't worry about Fulbright. When Mrs. Mitchell gets through with him, he won't be able to get a dance at the next White House ball with the broom. The press? Pshaw! Listen! If these fellows give you any trouble, just tell them, 'You 
guys aren't going to ha· Bowie Kuhn to kick around any more.' That always gets them. We could get Spiro to call them a bunch of effete, impudent snobs. We can only hope nobody gets a look at the 
way they dress." 
six year period. 
After a 50 year layoff, the 
Rowing Club was n:founded in 
1965. Due to inexperience, the 
crew failed to win any races in 

its first two years. But in 1969 · 
the varsity had a successful 
season with a 4-1 mark. This 
year, the team's won..lost success 
was hampered by some very 
close calls and unfortunate acci­
dents. 
So what are necessary require­
ments for a good crewman? 
What skills must he have or 
develop in order to work individ­
ually and collectively to win a 
race? · A good crewman needs strength throughout his body, not just in his arms. The shoulders are extremely import­ant, and the wrists must be strong for flipping the oars. Much of the drive is supplied by the legs, braced against the boat floor. 

Coordination is vital, for not only should all eight oars push -simUltaneously' but they-must enter and exit the water cleanly and precisely, without any indi­vidual deviation. 
It would seem that the guys just get out ·there and row as hard as they can; however, over a 2000 meter course, pacing themselves is necessary, and this is where the job of the coxswain comes in. 
The coxswain sits at the back of the boat facing the rowers. He directs each move, starting with some plan in mind after con­sideration of the opponents and the conditions of the river. The plan might be to go so many strokes at 40 strokes per minute (very fast), then slow to 36 for a period. The coxswain must co­ordinate the action and be able to adjust the speed smoothly. Assisting the coxswain is the stroke, who is the rower directly in front, facing the coxswain. He too serves as a guide for the other rowers. 
Coxswain for !!te varsity is Phil Hopkins, who also serves as coach. The JV coxswain is SMC junior Barb Walker. She joim:d this year, influenced by her boyfriend who is a member of the varsity. The guys respect h'er and consider her, as one declar­ed, "a damn good coxswain." 

Although 73 students signf:d up for the club this year aml none were cut, only about 30 remain due to the rough ami time-consuming workouts lah: each afternoon which discour-· aged some hopefuls. 
The club itself is hopeful, hopeful to be established as a club sport which will entail an additional $200 in university funds, and hopeful to havf: continued success and improve.. ment next year, as well as in the Dad Vail Tourney tomorrow. Much credit should be given to President-Coach Paul Weatherby and all the other members of the: Rowing Oub for working so hard while receiving very liWe credit for their achievements. 
•

Irish third 1n state meet 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. UPI ­Indiana's Hoosiers won their 21st "Big State" track meet Tuesday, and it came easier than any of the others. 
The defending champs over­whelmed their rivals by scoring a record 133~ points, setting two of four meet records and winn­ing 9 Qf 18 events. 
Indiana State was a distant second with 61 points and Notre Dame was third with 59. The Irish set the two other meet marks. 
Indiana's 440 relay was clock­ed in :40.4 and its Steve Kelley won the 3,000 yard steeplechase in 9:00.9 Notre Dame's record setters were Rick Wohlhuter in the 880 in 1:50.5 and Paul Gill, who hurled the discus 184 feet 9 inches. 
Indiana speedsters swept the first three places in the 100 and 220 while Steve Cooksey of Indiana State was the only double winner in the high jump and triple jump. Indiana's Ja1;k Keeler also had a chance for a double in the hurdles, but was disqualified in the intermediates. 

Purdue was fourth in team standings with 42 points follow­ed by Vincennes 23, Ball State 21 ~. Taylor 12, Butler and Wabash 10, Oakland City 8, Manchester 7, DePauw 5, Earl­ham and Indiana Central 2. 
So. Carolina still in ACC 
COLUMBIA, ~.C. UPI -An apparent last minute concession by officials of the Atlantic Coast Conference will keep the Univer­sity · of South Carolina in the ACC, at least temporarily. 
Speculation of a withdrawal from the conference to pursue a course as a major collegiate athletic power ended abruptly Tuesday afternoon when univer­sity President Thomas F. Jones disclosed a vote by the trustees not to alter the status of the university at this time. 
The decisive factor in the trustees' decision was believed to be a letter received by Jones earlier from the conference pres­ident, Dr. John W. Sawyer of 
Two black giants meet in Phil/y 
PHILADELPHIA UPI -Two giants of black college football will battle each other at Franklin Field in September for the first black football classic. 
Southern University of Baton Rouge, La., and North Carolina A&T go against each other for the first time on Sept. 12. Both the Southern "Jaguars" and the North Carolina "Aggies" had 6-2-1 records last year. 
The Black Classic is the idea of Vann Steven Truett, Jr., of Brooklyn, N.Y., a promotor of concerts and television specials. 
"I've seen the Rose Bowl and the Orange Bowl," Truett said, "and I just wondered why not a Black Classic." 
The promotor said he hopes the game will be as great as bowl games with just as much pagen­try. Truett said aU proceeds from the event will go to charities, both black and white. 
Lake Forest. 
USO official had been report­ed anxious to withdraw if the ACC officials at last week's conference meeting in Southern Pines, N.C., refused to support a Carolina request that the mini­mum 800 score on college board tests for athletes be dropped. 
Sawyer's letter to Jones indi­cated that a meeting is planned by the presidents of the confer­ence schools to consider the question of "relief" from the 800 cutoff restriction. 

Exactly what "relief" might be forthcoming, Jones made no cr·-nment, but the impression was that each ACC school would be allowed to permit a limited number of athletes who failed to score 800 on the college boards to play varsity sports as "hard­ship cases." 
Jones also said the ACC approved basketball package will permit the televising of 14 Carolina basketball games next season. 
MAJOR LEAGUES 
NATIONAL LEAGUE  AMERICAN LEAGUE  
East  East  
w  L  Pet.  GB  w  L  Pet.  GB  
*Chicago  13  9  .591  *Baltimore  15  8  .652  
*New York  12  12  .500  2  *Detroit  13  9  .591  1Y.  
*Philadelphia 12  12  .500  2  *Boston  13  9  .591  1Y.  
*St. Louis  10  12  .445  3  *Washington 13  11  .542  2Y.  
Pittsburgh  11  14  .440  3Y,  *New York  13  13  .500  3%  
*Montreal  6  16  .385  10'1:.  *Cleveland  9  13  .409  5Y.  

West West 
Cincinnati 21 6 .778 *Minnesota 15 7 .682 Atlanta 15 11 .577 5% *California 14 9 .609 1V:. *Los Angeles 13 11 .542 6'1:. *Oakland 12 13 .41!0 4V:. *San Fran. 13 14 .481 8 *Chicago 10 13 .435 5V:. 
Houston 12 15 .444 9 *Kansas City 8 15 .34!:1 7'h *San Diego 10 16 .385 10'1:. *Milwaukee 5 20 .200 11"'/, 
Atlanta 3 Pittsburgh 0 Baltimore 1 Kansas City 0, 6th inn. New York 5 Los Angeles 1, 6th inn. Detroit 3 Minnesota 0, 5tK inn. San Diego 3 Philadelphia 2, 7th inn. Chiccago 0 Cleveland 0, 3rd inn. 
San Francisco at Montreal, night Boston 0 Milwaukee 0, 3rd inn. Washington at California, night New York at Oakland, night 









