
Nutting on education 
Goal: to educate the man himself 
Jn a five-part position paper to be published in installments in The Observer, members of the Nutting for 
..President committee face the fum/a­men tal challenge to their campaign: Win• bother changing the existing stn~ctures or the existing personnel? 
Written hy Notre Dame students Steve Tapscott, Nick Scarpelli, Mike Ko11acevich and Mike Fallon, the essays discuss the concerns at the heart of any university situation. Their con­clusion is that Notre Dame could he a better place to learn if some changes were made. Specifically, and with detailed rationales, they suggest the existing office of president be changed to a two-man post of chancellor­president. They also give their reasons why Father /leshurgh would make a good chancellor, and why Willis Nutting would he a good president. 
They seek discussion and criticism of their position either personally or through The Observer letters column. 
Did you enjoy that last class? Was it stimulating? And do you feel like reading a hook ahout what you talked about or going deeper into that theo­rem? Sex is a word that attracts a great deal of attention. Does the word "education" do the same? If you are like most .of us, you've already safely shut that last class into its closet to be remembered only when you have to. If you're one of the few, you've become interested in that subject or idea. Good teachers~those who spark inter­est and discussion -are few and far bet ween. Count yourself lucky if you have one or two. 
Judging on your experience, Samuel Clemens' adage that he never let his schooling interfere with his education seems to be woefully too true today. 


Proposes channeling ofStudentUnion funds 
Stone's proposal is now under
hy Steve Hoffman 
consideration by the Student 
l·.xplaining that there is a de­Union which will draft the final finite need for the strengthening hill. Stone stated that, if the of 11,4ill (;uvernment in order to Union bill is in keeping with his unit~ the students in a via hie 
proposal, he will-then present it community structure, lloward 
to the Senate for final approval. Hall Senator Russ Stone is cur­
Concerning the particulars of rently sponsoring a hill designed 
his proposal, Stone observed to channel a portion of Student 
that those smaller halls with no Union funds directly to the in­
access to needed money should be allotted funds sooner than
dividual halls. should those larger halls who benefit substantially from food sales and hall taxes.

To Dayton 
When asked to comment on In a surprise move, the 
his reasons for proposing the NCAA invited Notre Dame 
bill, Stone remarked that "the to its Mid-East Regional 
present Student Government Tournament, instead of 
isn't aware of who should be the the Mid-West as was expec­
spokesman for the students, and ted. The Irish will play on 
consequently is unaware of how Saturday, March 7 at Day­
tile students should be united in ton against either Western 
the community." Kentucky (winner of the 
Citing a need for one place Ohio Valley Conference) 
where the students can actively by Steve Effler or the winner of the Mid­
participate in community life, 
Having recently decided that American Conference 
Stone recommended that Hall 
the Anti War sentiments are on (probably Ohio Universi­
Governments respond to this 
the wane because, in the words ty). The other bid went to 
need, and remove the problem 
of Tom Schoaf, they are "no Jacksonville. 
from the political arena of Stu­
longer fashionable," a group has dent Government. 
The winners of the decided to form a committee in 
Voicing a dissatisfaction with
doubleheader at Dayton this area. This group, mostly
the present Student Government
will move on to the Re­sophomores, was represented at 
gional proper at Ohio Stone was asked to relate his Nieuwland Science Hall last 
impressions of the Student Sen­
State, Thursday and Satur­night at 9: 15 by Tom Schoaf 
ate during his term.
day, March 12-14 where and Bill Wilka. 
"In one word, I'm disap­
Kentucky and the Big Ten According to Schoaf, the 
pointed," he stated. 
champion will join the group wished to form a steering
"When I decided to run for
field. committee of as many people
(contmued on page 7) 
Mrs. Grace Olivarez, Juris Doctor 
To balance the scales ••• 
by Mark Walbran education working among the was of Arab descent, was born in 
poor in Maricopa County, Ari­southern Spain. Her mother was 
This spring the Notre Dame zona. Although she frequently born in Arizona, but her mater­Law School will break with a succeeded in correcting the ef­nal grandparents were from Mex­century old tradition and confer fects of the injustice she saw ico. Soon after she was born her the Juris Doctor degree on its there, the causes of injustice ·family moved from Phoenix to first woman law student, Mrs. were out of her reach. Her ef­Sonora, Arizona, a mining town Grace Olivarez. Although this is forts as a problem solver were where her father went to work a unique event for the Law inhibited by her lack of legal for an Anglo-owned company. School, for Mrs. Olivarez it is knowledge. Her dedication to Sonora was a segregated town, just the beginning of a new the poor brought her to law one of three administered by the chapter in a life full of unusual school to learn how the scales of mining company. Spaniards lived and fascinating events. Mrs. Oli­justice could be balanced. In a in Barcelona and the Anglos varez is a Mexican-American. recent Observer interview Mrs. lived in Rey. The towns were She has never received a high Olivarez talked about her life only a mile apart. She attended school diploma. She has never and work. elementary school in Barcelona. earned a college degree. Yet her Although only Spanish speaking transcript for admission to law Childhood in Mining Town children were enrolled there, the school records a liberal educa­Anglo teachers punished the tion few students could ever Mrs. Olivarez was born in children if they spoke Spanish. obtain during four years in coll­Phoenix, Arizona and christened 
(continued on page 3)
ege. Mrs. Olivarez received her Graciela Gil. Her father, who You get knowledge~a great deal of particular facts and some general truths in some subjects such as Psycho­logy, Economics, and Physics-while most of your education occurs outside the classroom. Outside the classroom, perhaps even outside the university, you reach an understanding of what all those particular facts are all about. To some extent this has to be true in any university, but unfortunately, Dr. Nutting says, current educational systems neither lea-d you towards that understanding nor .tie those varied 
(continued on page 5) 

present who were willing to work 3 to 4 hours a week. This committee would organize the March and April Moratoriums. They would also like to publish bi-monthly an anti-war newslet­ter if workers could be recruited and money collected. Schoaf emphasized that this publication would offer the public the kind of information on national ad­ministrative moves not often found in the Chicago papers. He asked that all interested in recei­ving it sign up. 
Schoaf emphasized that there was more to the war than the issue of morality. He mentioned that "480 out of the average 900 dollars in taxes goes to military spending." The April Moratori­um will attempt to bring out some of the correlation between the spending and high taxes, high prices and inflation. 
The March Moratorium will have the draft as its focus. Schoaf said that the reasons be­hind it, its structure, and its "channeling effect" would be considered. According to one of the audience, Chris Cotter, there will be some national turning in of draft cards on March 18th. He suggested that perhaps at Notre Dame this event could be symbolically held on March 17th. Cotter is among those who are organizing the effort here for South Bend residents, IUSB and ND students. Bob Molitor also spoke on a new loophole avail able to those who are willing to change addresses without report­
ing since, under the current law 
the government must take every 
change of address case to court, 
a few thousand of these actions 
would seriously hamper the 
draft boards. 
There was quite a bit of de­
bate as to the most effective 
means of demonstrating the op­
position to the war at ND. Chris 
Ottenweller, a CPA member, 
said that it was foolish to split 
forces. It was pointed out by 
Schoaf that the committee was 
not specifically affiliated with 
the CPA because the CPA was 
"more involved with the corpor­
ate complicity than with the 
war". He felt that there were 
many students who would not 
support the whole attitude of the 
(continued on page 7) 
Security forum 
An open forum on Security will be held tomorrow night at 
7:00 PM in the ballroom of LaFortune Student Centl;!r on the second floor. The panel who will discuss the issue with stu­dents, and answer any questions, will consist of Mr. James Frick, Vice President for Public 'Rela­tions; Fr. Edgar Whelan, Direc­tor or Student Residence; Fr. James Riehle, Dean of Students; and Steve Ahern, Student Life council member. 
The issue of campus security has been a controversial one that 
(continued on page 2) 
t 

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1970
PAGE 2 
University of Dayton 
BEER GIRLS
TGIF 
SLC reaffirms CIA statement
February 27, 1970 
Timothy's-3:00 
Brown & Irving 
Sponsored by Chi Sigma Alpha Fra te~'!~!l'­
and defended their rationale for
by Shawn Hill 
the recommendation. 
In a statement drafted last The original rationale stated Monday the Student Lif~ Coun­that, "Given 'the University as a cil re-affirmed their recommend­community in which open dis­ation not to allow the CIA to cussion is a hallmark, then where use campus interview facilities. even the possibility of discussion In addition, the SLC clarified is non-existent, the University 
EUROPE $229 
Jone 24 to August 18 8 weeks Detroit/London/Detroit 
ROUND TRIP JET 
N.B. -last sign-up by Feb. 27 University Charter's 6th Annual Charter Flight Series 
Sponsored by Notre Dame, St. Marys's -Students International 
Intra· European student charter flight bookings
non· stop Jet 
NSA international 1.0. cards 
open bar and complete meals 
Eurai I and Britrai I passes
Detroit departures from near· by Metro Airport 
Auto purchases, rentals and leases 
$50 deposit, final payment in March 
Connecting ground and air transportation
cancellation privileges until day of departure 
Traveler's Checks 
complete range of travel services 
Educational tours Student priced hotel bookings A London office to serve you A wide variety c)f flights to choose from 
Our Ann Arbor office can book you into student priced hotels before you leave, and our London office will look after all your needs while you are in Europe. 
Open only to Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, faculty, staff and immediate families $50 Deposit Reserves Seats 
Phone or stop in: 
Notre Dame Student Service Commission  or  St. Mary's Contact  
4 E. Lafortune Student Center  St. Mary's Student Services  
283.7757  Organization  

NewCamaro. 
Feb.26th. 
We've never announced a carat this Ume before. Butthen nobody'sever announced a car like this before. 
SUperHugger 
If it were an ordinary sportster, we'd have intro­duced it at the ordinary time. Instead, we took the time to build a whole new Camaro. We started with a sleek new shape and a low road­hugging stance. And added more hood. A faster fastback. Wider doors. And new deeply contoured bucket seats. 
The instrument panel wraps around you. With enough dials to make you think you're piloting a 747. 
There are four transmissions. And six power plants 
up to the Turbo-Jet 396 V8 that you can order. 
MARK Of EX.CELLENCE 
should not involve itself." In rejects the concept of 'legislatingclarification of this rationale the morality'. It finds, however, theSLC stated "The initial thesis official presence of activitiesrecognizes that the ideal of open such as classified research and ofand civilized discussion and criti­organizations whose policies ex­cism will rarely be fully realiz­pressly erase even the potentialable, but it takes as essential a for interaction with the com­general willingness to take part munity as simply inappropriatein this dynamic process in which to and indeed defeating to antruth is sought. While many as­academic community."
pects involved in living at a S LC Chairman Professoruniversity seem quite peripheral James Massey said that althoughto this principle, no aspect of the SLC is a law making body
the life of the university should 
under present University struc­go counter with it." The SLC ture, its authority is only ex­sees the CIA's refusal to take tended to matters of student part in any type of discussion as life. The Placement Bureau iscounter to this ideal of the not within the law making juris­University. 
diction. of the SLC, according In defense of their recommen­to Massey. Because of this, Prof. 
dations to the Placement Bure­Massey said that the purpose ofau, the SLC said that "The the statement, th~ SLC chairman council affirms that, in so doing intended, was to reaffirm and(issuing its recommendations), it clarify their ninth recommenda­condemns no one, no company, tion, which was turned down by no organization, no government the Placement Bureau. 
agency. The Coucil categorically 
Housing for grads 
provided include the fact that there will be room for 100 toYesterday the Graduate Stu­110 students in Carroll Hall ondent Union released a copy of its the southwest edge of St. Mary's questionaire on housing for sin­Lake. Accomodations will be ingle graduate students to the the form of singles, doubles andObserver. All male and female triples which President Jamesgrads who are interested in King pointed out were all largemoving on campus were reques­rooms.
ted to indicate the fact by retur­Three plans were offered atning the questionaire to their various costs. For the roomrespective representatives. 
alone, the price would be $325 
Highlights of the information per year while laundry service 
Pick the one that best suits your driving. Then go pick on an open road. 
And make it one with plenty of twisting turns. Because Camaro has a remarkable new suspension. And standard front disc brakes for a leech-like grip on the road. 
New Camaro. The Super Hugger. 
Other sportsters always feared it might 
come to this. 
And they were right. Only their tim­
ing was wrong. 
Putting you first, keeps us first. 

See lt.At your Chevrolet Sports Dept. 
U.S. 31. The proposal calls for a self-governing body to be elected by the residents. Since the use of Carroll is contingent on the amount of interest shown, the G.S.U. Hous­ing Committee stressed the fact that all interested students con­tact their representatives for forms as soon as possible. Sat­urday, February 28 has been set as a deadline. While the form will not commit the individ.ual to living there, it will provide a preliminary show of interest. To hold forum  
(continued from page 1) has stretched back to last year. This year an SLC subcommittee consisting of Fr. Whelan, Steve Ahern, and Prof. Houck studied the issue and recommended that a professional consultant be brought to study the security set-up and recommend improve­ments. A preliminary study was made by Paul Powell, a pro­fessional security consultant and presented to the administration. As yet there is no word whether or not the report has been accepted. According to organizers, the discussion will concern new pro­grams that are under considera­tion, and how students can help to alleviate the present pro­blems.  
Kim is a beautiful girl. Dig it; the Poughkeepsie Kid.  
The Observer Is published dally· during the college semester except vacations . by students of the University. of Notre Dame and"St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Ql;)server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46!\56.  

would be included for $400. If the student desires the entire package of room, laundry, and board in the South Dining Hall, the price will be $960 per year. 
Kitchen facilities are available in the hall which also features a parking lot easily accessible from 
771B O&rERriER
WFnNESDAY. FEBRUARY 25, 1970 PAGE 3 
1WiS:Grace Olivarez, Juris Doctor 
Dedication to the poor leads to education 
(continued from page I) 
Today she re~.:alls the confusion this brought to her, and analyz­ed the effects this practice con­tinues to have on Mexican-Amer­ican children. 
"You grow up with a distort­ed image of yourself. First of all, you see a teacher who gets her hair done once a week, who wears stockings, high-heel shoes, and good dresses, and she tells you Spanish is no good. You go home-and your mother doesn't get her hair done. She can't afford silk stockings, at best she wears cotton hose, and she doesn't own a pair of high heel shoes because you are living in dire poverty. So you start mak­ing comparisons. If one week you are in the teacher's good graces, you swear that the teach­er is right. You disown every­thing that even smacks of Mexi­can or Spanish. But then if you have a falling out with the teach­er your mother starts looking real good and the teacher looks like an ogre. So you grow up in total confusion." 
After finishing the eighth grade in Barcelona, Mrs. Olivarez enrolled in the integrated high school in Rey. Then as today, she explained, the Anglo teach­ers who are hired by the Anglo bosses of the mining company, favor Anglo students. As a re­sult, she said, the inferior image instilled in early childhood is reinforced. The confusion and moved with her mother and her three sisters and brother to Phoenix. There she did not re­enter high school but enrolled in a business school and learned stenography and book-keeping in order to get a job to help support her family. For four and one half years she worked for a small firm. But a recession caus­ed her to be laid off. For three and one half' months she took in ironing and sat with children to help her family. During this time she taught herself how to take shorthand in Spanish. With this skill she landed a job with a bi-lingual advertising agency which concentrated on the Span­ish speaking market. The agency bought radio time, selling time to clients and broadcasting some of the time, using its own an­nouncer. Through this job Mrs. Olivarez was launched into a 14 year radio and advertising career. 
An Active Volunteer 
One day when her boss was away on business and when the ad agency's announcer didn't show up, the station phoned and said that the agency would be guilty of breach of contract if someone didn't go on the air. Mrs. Olivarez then didn't really know what a breach of contract was-but it sounded bad. So with a batch of announcements in one hand and a stack of records in the other she went on the air. For three days she an­nounced during the agency's 
Arizona's Spanish-speaking peo­ple lived, as well as Indians, Blacks, and poor Whites from Appalachia. Although she is a devout Catholic, she did not limit her activities by working with programs sponsored only by the Church and became just as active in volunteer groups organized by the YMCA. She recalls with a smile that this caused quite a furor at the time for which she was almost excom­municated. 
Full Time on Radio 
After three and one half years 
with the advertising agency Mrs. Olivarez left and joined Radio Station KIFN which broadcasted solely in Spanish. The station's manager was not a Mexican­American but Siamese-English. He possessed a real social con­science and believed radio could be used for more than just sel­ling. His attitude complemented her own. Already she had gained immense popularity in the Spanish speaking community and was seen as their one source to the outside world. She became a kind of "Dear Abby" to her listeners except that her letters were from the poverty-stricken, not the love-stricken. Some of the problems she heard of in 
these letters she could not 
believe. For instance, she could 
not believe that county health 
clinics treated Spanish-speaking 
people with inferior care. As her 
face was unknown, she could 
easily present herself to such 
•
,;~ 
. 
........ 
+-· 
..· 
~· 
. .... 
' ,-........ ~ ·' 
Mrs. Grace Oliverez is the first woman student to receive a law degree from Notre Dame. clinics and found that such dis-her to the power of mass media. crimination was actually taking Salesmen who kept a parasitic 
place. beat on the Mexican-American 
From the problems her listen-community complained that ers wrote to her, Mrs. Olivarez these programs had cut down and the station manager planned their selling time. Then Mrs. educational programs to help the Olivarez sympathized with the Spanish speaking community in salesmen but today she realizes all areas. Whatever information the problems they caused with she could gather concerning her their hard selling technique to listeners problems she would the woman alone in the house. 
broadcast to them. KIFN was (continued tomorrow) soon broadcasting countless pro----------------. grams on food, health, immigra­JOBS! JOBS! and more JOBSI sn.­
dents, Teachers. Stateside and Int•·
tion laws, and social security. In 
national Jobs. Rec;,..tlonal Jobs·addition Mrs. Olivarez got hold Year-round Jobs1 summer Jobs. All of several soap operas in Spanish ~cupatlons and trad... EnJoy a vau­
tlon while you Mrn. HurryI The best
and played these daily between 
Jobs are taken early. Writ•• "JOBS", eleven and twelve o'clock. It was P.O. Box 475, Dept. CP 163-1, Lodl, Calif. 95240
these programs that introduced the frustration which occurs time. When her boss returned, among Mexican-American stu­
Fri. Feb. 27 
FJanner Basement
hsi mailbox was full of fan mail dents accounts for their high for "that lady who spoke Span­drop-out rate. After dropping ish over the radio." Spanish­
Sat. Feb. 28 
out of school the boys go to 
speaking housewives enjoyedwork for the mining company in 
9:00PM Admission $1.00
hearing a woman's voice. Soon 
"the yard" and eventually get 
Mrs. Olivarez was handling the jobs in the mines. Thus the cycle 
agency's morning program. 
continues 
During the hours she wasn't on the air or writing copy for 
-The Return of John Bachmann from Detroit
Works for Ad Agency 
the agency, Mrs. Olivarez work­Mrs. Olivarez finished the ed with volunteer groups which junior year in Rey, but then her helped the poor in Maricopa 
-Sgnarelle 's Jimmy BoJand : Monologue-Beyond the Fringe 
parents were divorced and she County. There the bulk of 
-Edward Sheehee -Pat Pattisson From Terre Haute Fri. only Sat. only 
ADVERTISEMENT 
-The incomparable Morninglory Brigade 
~EX1RA ADDtlJ A ITRACTION Student "power" by Don Bu 
INTERESTED IN WORKING FOR THE OBSERVER? 
A WORKSHOP WILL BE HELO FOR ALL THOSE INTERESTED 
IN NEWS AND FEATURE WRITING. TOPICS WHICH WILL BE COVERED INCLUDE: 
STRUCTURE OF A NEWS STORY INTER VIEWING TECHNIQUE THE ROLE OF INTERPRETATION IN A NEWS STORY. 
THE QUESTION OF OBJECTIVITY. 
DATES: Mon.-March 2Will the friendly lady show the sailors 
Wed. -March 5 
the ropes??? Find out on The Don Adams Special: "Hooray for Hollywood"... 
TIME: 7:30-9:oo brought to you by Budweiser®, the King of Beers®. Thursday, February 26, 
PLACE: 356 O'Shaughnessy
CBS-TV, 8 p.m. EST. 
Anheuser-Busch, Inc. • St. Louis CaiJ 1715 for information 


--------------------------------------------------------------~ 
p 
11/E OBSERUER. 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Editorial 
Loosening belts 
The Student Union statement on Sunday announcing that they were close to $15,000 under their budget at this time of the year is almost as unusual as the weather we have been having. It represents a change of policy almost as earthshaking as the University's announcement that we would be playing in a Bowl Game for the first time in forty years. 
Since its advent the Student Union has been notorious for its waste and at times for fiscal graft and corruption. It has continuously lost money. It is not easy to say how much of the funds were lost through mismanagement or dishonest personnel. The accomplishment of this year's staff says a lot about both their ability and character. 
We hope that the results for this year are not merely a peculiarity that will occur every few years. We hope that the present leadership in the Union will take steps to insure that their successors maintain the same standards that they have set. We hope too that they will make further efforts to run a tight ship this year and will not let their partial success encourage a slackening of efforts for the rest of the year. 
The fact that the Union could perform its traditional services for the Student Body and yet remain far under its budget points out the fact that no doubt student govern­ment itself is over-budgeted. If efforts were made we feel that most of the other offices could come up with similar austere results. 
The resulting savings could be channeled towards other areas. First, to pay off the student government debt that has been run up as a result of the waste, corruption, and mismanagement; second, to give money directly back to the halls to be used for hall improvements; third, to raise the budgets of other needy organizations which were cut this year. 
The first point is obvious and needs no explanation. The debt needs to be paid off. First, the university probably won't extend credit to Student Government for much longer. Secondly, Student Government has a simple moral obligation to pay the money back. 
On the second point, we support the efforts that the Hall President's Council is making to get Student Govern­ment to return a set amount of the activities fee that is collected to the halls. Such a revenue sharing would enable the halls to put the money toward hall improvements or hall projects. 
News Editor: Glen Corso Asst. News Editor: Don Ruane SMC News Editor: Prue Wear Associate Editors: Cliff 
Wintrode, AnnConway, 
Jeanne Sweeney Layout Editor: Mary E. Burke Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Feature Editor: Dave Stauffer Photography Ed.: Mike 
Mu[phy 
The opinions expressed in the Night Editor: Jim Holsinger 
editorials, news analyses, and Layout Design: Guy De 
columns of THE OBSERVER are Sapio 
s,olely those of the authors and Layout: Dan Shaw, Mike 
editors of THE OBSERVER and Bridgeman, Sue Reed 
do not necessarily reflect the Headline~: Phil Schatz, views of St. Mary's College, the Rich Smith University of Notre Dame, their Proofreader: Phil Stark administrations, faculty, or 
student bodies. 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 197(. 
Of course I know the M has run $12 billion over my estimate and that it's not an effective deterrent and that it probably won'r work and that it'll be obsolete by the time it's built, but I still don't see what they're complaining about...it's only 1/10 of what we asked for. 
l.etters to the Editor 
The following is a letter which THE OESER VER received in November, but which was mis· placed and consequently did not appear in the paper. Since many of the points are still relevant THE OESER VER was provided another copy by Brother Schlenker and is printing it now. Please take into consideration the 'fact that the letter is dated November 11, 1969 and so the facts and figures he relates are dated. 
Student Responsibility 
Editor: 
Student Body President, Mr. Phil McKenna's and student representative, Mr. Steve Aheran's proposal (Nov. 4, Ob­server) to investigate the entire 
campus security system appears to be centered solely around the vandalism of student property. This leads me to believe that Mr. McKenna and the Student Life Council are only concerned with the needs, wants, demands and protection of their student 
body. A responsible student' body president would also add to his list of concerns, the "Responsi­bilities of A Student", and call for a committee to examine a few other cases of vandalism and their causes. Not in the parking lots, but in and around the campus halls. To mention but a few: 
(I) 
Breaking of hall windows and screens. 

(2) 
Theft ·of hall parlor furni­ture. 

(3) 
Destruction of hall fur­nishings. 

(
4) The opening of valves on the water standpipes and filling the fire hose with water. This necessitates the removal of the hose lines from the buildi~g, in order to be dried and later (sometimes a week later) re­turned to their racks. During which time the area is without adequate fire protection to life and property. Holy Cross Hall has performed such an act of vandalism a total of seven times this semester. Other halls are·less offenders. Nozzles from the fire hoses are also being stolen. 

(5) 
False fire alarms, originat­ing from the pull stations in the halls and campus boxes. A total of twenty-eight false alarms have 


been turned into the City and campus fire departments since the beginning of the school year. From Morrissey Hall, three false alarms were sent in within a fifteen minute period. Last St. Patrick's Day a total of nine out of eleven false alarms came from this hall within a two hour period. From Flanner Hall, false alarms from six floor stations were turned in simultaneously. And from Grace Hall, false alarms from four floors were simultaneously tr\pned. 
These halls now have their fire alarm systems disconnected. And probably will remain so until student responsibility can recognize the protection and 
safety this equipment affords them. Two years ago repeated false alarms from Keenan and Stanford Halls has forced authorities to remove the pull stations from the hall entirely. 
Points 4 and 5 alone gives me reason to draw the conclusion that the "Self-Government". of the halls, isn't worth the paper it is printed upon. 
(
6) The tlJ_eft of five fireman helmets. Two were stolen last May. Three were stolen last month. All were stolen off the fire trucks inside the fire station. 

(7) 
Students complete disre­gard for the care of the lawns and shrubbery. For them the shortest distance between two points is a straight line. And they are out to prove it. 


If Mr. McKenna and his com­mittees will concern themselves with the "Responsibilities of A Student" and investigate his own household, perhaps he can yet !!(ave his office with a fair ac­count of his stewardship. 
Student government within the halls is nothing but a STU­DENT PROTECTIVE 
ASSOCIATION. 
Respectfully submitted, 
Brather Beat us Schlenker, 
c.s.c. 
Assistant Fire .Chief. 
Dr.Spock 
Editor: 
I hope Dr. Spock's talk on effective dissention will finally awake all the dormant minds that live in the Notre Dame Community. No, violence in the pursue of justice is no vice! 
Rafail Aragunde 
915 Flanner Tower 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1970 
711BOBSERfiER 
PAGE 5 

'I am the new Christ' --Meher Baba 
by Bill M1llcr "/ have not come to establish a new religion. The religion I shall give teaches the 1\ now/edge of the One behind the many. The book that I shall make people read is the book of the heart that holds the key to the mystery of life. I shall revitalize all religions and cults and bring them together like beads on one string. I am the New Christ." 
Meller Baba asserts to be the most 
recent Incarnation of God in human 
form. He is the same 'Ancient One', come 
again to redeem man from his bondage of 
ignorance and to guide him to realize his 
true Self which is God. As the 'Avatar of 
the Age,' Baba is the same Divine Being 
which previously was manifested on earth 
in the forms of Krishna, Buddha, Jesus, 
and Mohammed. The Avatar comes age 
after age to rekindle the torch of love and 
truth. One cannot help but think in 
retrospect of the millions who knew of 
Mohammed, and Jesus, and Buddha, but 
who failed to listen to them because the 
chance seemed so slight that the Avatar, 
or even a great spiritual teacher, was 
really at hand. Meher Baba is acknow­
ledged by his many followers all over the 
world as the Avatar of the Age. 
Born in Poona, India, on the twenty­-fifth of February, 1894 (seventy-six years ago today), Merwan Shcriar Irani was brought up in the Zoroastrian tradi­tion. While attending Deccan College, a Catholic university in the Poona area, Merwan lived a normal life of sports and studies. At the age of nineteen, Merwan realized his inherent spiritual destiny as the Chnst-figure. This enlightenment brought him to the unique state of God-realization. 
His spiritual mission began in 1921 when he drew together his first close disciples. It was these same early disciples who gave him the name Meher Baba, which means 'Compassionate Father'. 
After~king intensively with an inti­mate group of disciples for some years, Baba began to observe silence in 1925, and throughout more than four decades of His spiritual activities he did not utter a word. From His work in India and the East with the mad, infirm and poor and with spiritually advanced souls to His contact with thousands of people in the West, Meher Baba has awakened innumer­able persons to the quest for higher consciousness and their own ultimate reality. Throughout the years Baba indi­cated that the breaking of His Silence 
would come in a way and at a time that 
no one could imagine, and that His 
'speaking the Word' after the appearance 
of utter defeat would be His only real 
miracle in this incarnation as God in 
human form: "When I break My Silence, 
the impact will jolt the world out of its 
spiritual lethargy...What will happen 
when I break My Silence is what has 
never happened before... When I break 
My Silence, the world will come to know 
that I am the One whom they were 
waiting for!" Declaring that His work had 
been completed I 00% to His satisfaction 
and that the results of that work would 
soon begin to manifest, Meher Baba 
dropped His body on January 31st. 1969. 
"I veil myself from man by his own curtain of ignorance, and manifest my Glory to a few. My present Avataric Form is the last Incarnation of this cycle of time, hence my Manifestation will be the greatest. When I break my Silence, the impact of my L(j)ve will be universal and all life in creation will know, feel and receive of it. It will help every individual to break himself free from his own bondage in his own way. I am the Divine Beloved who loves you more than you can ever love yourself. The breaking of my Silence will help you to help yourself in knowing your real Self." 
"All this world confusion and chaos 
was inevitable and no one is to blame. 
What had to happen has happened; and 
what has to happen will happen. There 
was and is no way out except through my 
coming in your midst. I had to come, and 
I have come. I am the Ancient One." 
Meher Baba often emphasized that he 
did not come to teach, but rather to 
awaken the spirit of love in men's hearts. 
Thus in His 'Universal Message', Baba 
clearly states this fact: 
"Throughout eternity I have laid down principles and precepts, but mankind has ignored them. Man's inability to live God's words makes the Avatar's teaching a mockery. Instead of practising the compassion He taught, man has waged crusades in His name. Instead of living the humility, purity and truth of His words, man has given way to hatred, greed and violence. 
Because man has been deaf to the principles and precepts laid down by God in the past, in this present Avataric Form I observe Silence. You have asked for and been given enough words-it is now time to live them. To get nearer and nearer to God you have to get further and further away from "1", "my", "me" and "mine." You have not to renounce anything but your own self. It is as simple as that, 
though found to be almost impossible. It 
is possible for you to renounce your 
limited self by my Grace. I have come to 
release that Grace. 
Through his exemplary life of selfless service, Baba always emphasized that true "Being is dying by Loving". Thus it is this very dying to your self which means completely losing yourself in God to find your Self as God. "In this form of flesh and blood I am the same Ancient One Who alone is eternally worshipped and ignored, ever remembered and forgotten. I am that Ancient One Whose past is 

worshipped and remembered, Whose pres­
ent is ignored and forgotten, a.nd Whose 
future (Advent) is anticipated with great 
fervor and longing." 
Today, throughout. the world, thou­sands of devotees are celebrating the return of the 'Christ'. Not only in Baba's native India, but also throughout Europe, Australia, and the U.S.A., various birth­day festivities and programs are being staged in His honor. Notre Dame is among the many college campuses in the country taking part in this world-wide celebration. This birthday marks over two full years of active Baba work here at 
N.D. Dr. Ken Lux first offered a Free University course on Meher Baba during the spring semester of 1968-and the course is being offered again this year. 
Nutting emphasizes need for formal dialogue
(continued from page I) 
subjects together. The student of soc­iology knows almost as little about physics as the physics student knows about sociology. What's more, the, students' degree of understanding of their particular subject is as scattered 
as if the teacher took a sawed-off shotgun and sprayed it out into the classroom. And perhaps as devastating to the student. Schooling is schooling and education is education and never the twain shall meet. 
Nutting's Criticisms 
Nutting's criticisms of education are 
specific. First of all, a man is a person 
before he is a civic leader or an expert, 
these being the avowed aims of higher 
education. Therefore, it would seem 
sensible to give priority to educating 
the man himself so that he may 
become wise and understanding. 
Secondly, it is by no means certain 
that the training necessary to make a 
man a specialist wiii fully develop his 
intellect. It is even likely that such 
training so narrows his interests and 
his ability to think in many directions 
that he becomes less wise than before. 
Thirdly, it may be very possible that 
the education he gets in college will 
unfit him for being a leader of men. 
He will be "educated away" from his 
fellow men so that he can no longer 
communicate with them. 
The formal dialogue will be the most effective means of forming the persons in the institution into a com­munity, he says. lt will be the best agency for counteracting the centri­fugal tendencies of the intellectual life. In it people will come to know and understand each other even though they disagree. To raise the questions of philosophy, science, history, etc. in public discussions is not to find pat answers. But the discussion does stretch the students' intellects. l\ .ex­plores the problem, lets them thilik in different ways of thinking, gives them the material for solving in their own minds, for themselves, problems Which the public dialogue does not solve for everybody. This discussion is, at the same time, both personal and com­munal. 
Community Learning The group of teachers and learners can be called a community because in all its members there will be a unique purpose: the desire to know and to understand and to share this know­ledge and understanding with the rest. The informal part of the dialogue will be taking place all the time, wher­ever and whenever members of the ·community get together. If the dis­cussion of the formal dialogue has been interesting, it will be continued when students or teachers meet. Students who are studying the same thing will naturally come together and talk about what's on their minds. Through the dialogue, in Nutting's opinion, formal and informal, the 
student comes to know without having his knowledge divided into compart­ments. His knowledge grows in an environment where there is constant communication between people of var­ious interests and various talents. 
Furthermore, his knowledge is in constant use by being brought to bear ofN:)J.e particular point in the discussion His mind will never be compartmen­talize~. None of its functions will grow stagnant through lack of use. 
~hooting vs. Education 
The quiet student will get just .as much from the dialogue as the vocal studeat, but in a different way. By being present and seeing what is going on he will be helped to integrate 'in his own mind what he is learning. He takes it all in even though be ~ay have an aversion for plun~g into discus­sion. He may ~hrink from contact of mind and mind; but that's all right. He need not do what he loathes; the intellectual broadening of. his mind often has to develop in isolation, but he needs the formal dialogue to spark' his intellectual thought. That's why the good teachers are the ones that make the subject interesting. But to­day the dialogue must take place in the student's mind and rarely between students. The focus of university edu­cation is on the classroom and rarely leaves it. Thus the difference between schooling and education. 
The narrowness that results in the 
liberal arts students' disinterest m science and the science majors' distaste towards philosophy Nutting ascribes to the ideal that colleges. have tried to impart: the specialist scholar as the highest example of the man whose intellect is fully developed. Every university takes pride in the number of scholars it produces, in the number of grants its students obtain. Each college c_onsoles itself with the thought that its less orilliant scholars can at least .become mediocre graduates. Disti­guished scholar-students and distin­guished scholars are attracted to its graduate schools and faculty. Nutting answers the specialist question-Is the specialist scholar the paradigm of the "imperial intellect" the best example of the well developed mind?-with a definite NO. The institution of higher 
learning exists, he says, to help men attain a complete knowing, an under­standing and appreciation of not only literature but science as well. Still it WO!Jld be ~nfair to Dr. Nuttin.s t~ reduce his ideas of education by con­sidering them to be a syst~m built in reply to the educational defects of higher learning today-a freedom from such problems. More exactly he sees them as a freedom to' a system of education that is more perfect for the development and understanding of the student. Schooling and education ought to be synonomous. 
Tomorrow: Part Two 

7118 OBSERfiDt WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25. 1970
PAGE 6 
Letters to the Editor 
Save the Grass 
Editor: 
I returned to join the Univer­sity staff last September, after an absence on other assignments from the University for seven years. There have been many changes over those years, too numerous to cover in one letter. Here I only wish to comment on one small matter (to some per­haps insignificant in itself, but indicative of one very important issue that seems to be at the heart of many things these days). There are some students (and too many at that) who find it difficult to use the sidewalks but persist in cutting across lawns to take short cuts between buildings. Many lawns which years ago were in beautiful con-. dition have become ruined. What 
is the cause of such 
inconsiderateness to property 
and the rights of others to have a 
decent looking place? Is it lazy­
ness? Is it selfishness for the 
rights of others? 
Students some time ago began 
to ask for greater RESPONSI­
BILITY. Treat us like mature 
men. Then we will act like men. 
Give us more responsibility and 
we will give you back responsi­
ble action. Walking across a la'Yn 
i:N f.~iH AINMEN"T GEARED TO PLEASE THE SOPHiSTICATED ADULT 
-

~----=======-~~~~~~~"~a~t~~~~~-. 
ACCOUNTING, MATH AND ENGINEERING GRADU­ATES FOR SYSTEMS, PRODUCTION, RESEARCH, IN­DUSTRIAL ENGINEERING, TESTING ENGINEERING, FIELD ENGINEERING, DESIGN AND SALES 
The Inland Steel Company, East Chicago, In­diana, invites you to investigate our many career opportunities. Consult the specific job descriptions in the pocket of our brochure. Our representative will be on your campus on 
MONDAY, MARCH 2, 1970 

INLAID STEEL COMPANY 
JNDIAlfA ILUIOR WOU8 
EAST CHICAGO, INDIANA 
G 

Equal Opportunity EmpJoyers m the Plans for Progress Program 
may sound like a small matter, but it is YOUR chance Your Opportunity, to exercise your MATURE responsibility towards others, to show some regard for the rights and feelings of others, to show some regard for the looks of YOUR school, and our school. Why must so many be so selfish, so inconsiderate, so lazy? 
These people. will be the first to scream against their neighbors when they have and own their own homes in later years if people passing by cut across their lawns to save a few feet. If people then, give the same ans­wers they give now, when asked why they cut across "their" lawns, how would they feel? The shoe would be on the other foot. 
If students cannot show res­ponsible action in small matters such as this, how do they hope to show responsible action in larger matters in the world? If they cannot be mature in simple matters as the which require but an extra minute or two and a bit more exercise to walk on the sidewalks, how are they going to make mature decisions in much more important matters in the world that they will face in the future? 
At _lunch the other day one proposal was made which I think --that the Uni-

versity should cease taking care of the lawns, let them all go to seed, to weeds, no cutting of the lawns, no trimming, as long as so many students don't care how they look. Let them all become like fields of weeds, if that is the way the students want to treat them anyway. Then see if that will please them. Maybe then the inconsiderate and lazy ones might change their attitude and try to cooperate and help keep the lawns in good condition. I would add still another proposal (Phy. Ed. Dept. please take note) Those who are lazy, cut­ting across lawns, ought to take a year of physical education classes in addition to their pre­sent academic program to make up for the exercise they are missing by not walking an extra few feet on the sidewalks. This is very important for them because men so young who are afraid of the little extra exercise that comes by using the sidewalks, will get old before they are 25, and they especially need some extra phys. ed. claflS4ts for their own health's sake. 
Sincerely yours, Rev. Robert J. Lochner, 
c.s.c. 
Onward to Armageddon ... Editor: The furor which has greeted the US visit of French President Pompidou this week was not only tasteless but also unne~es­sary. The sale of l 00 Mirage aircraft to Libya, to be delivered over a period of four or five years, hardiy represents a major upset in the Middle East balance of power. Neither Libya nor Egypt can absorb these new weapons systems in the forsee­able future because bqfh lack enough trained pilots; indeed Nasser admitted a few weeks ago that he already has more planes than men to fly them. As for Israel, it not only has complete air superiority over all its adver­saries but also has nearly twice as many pilots as it has planes. The fact is that whatever balance exists now heavily favors Israel and if any aircraft sale is likely to further tilt this balance one way or the other, it would be the delivery of more American aircraft to the Jewish state. The popular picture of an embattled and outgunned Israel is a myth which has had no foundation since the early 1950s. It was consciously man-
as the false image of Nasser as bogeyman which still misleads Israel and the world. History­written, incidentally, by Israelis -shows th~t Israel started the Middle East arms race in 1954 when it concluded the first of many deals with France, which continued to be its armorer until in June 1967 it broke a promise 
not to strike the first blow. Israel has never lost its military superiority over the Arabs, and in 1968 even surpassed West Germany as a military power. Egypt and its allies aren't even in the same league as Greater Israel, yet just last week Moshe Dayan was talking about a possible Israeli preventive offensive come spring. 

......I 
Years ago in his chilling novel On the Beach Nevile Shute saw the final world war being' touched off by a nuclear show­down in the Middle East. Per­haps another Hundred Years War seems the more likely alternative now. In either case, there is going to be no lasting reconcilia­tion between the survivors of the Nazi holocaust and the Pales­tinian diaspora until both sides give up their intransigent demands and the imperial pow­ers adopt a truly "even-handed" policy. In the meantime, onward to Armageddon... Howard Dooley 
Hardy Boys Debate 
Editor: 
I am gratified. 
To think that some one who has gone so far down the paths of intellectual enlightenment as to give up reading both Super­man and the Hardy Boys would condescend to comment on my own humble literary efforts warms the cockles of my soul. l greet Mr. Roickle's invitation to 
debate  with  some  trepidation.  
Rumor  has  it  that  since  he .  
graduated  from  Superman  

comics he has even read some· Classics Illustrated. A man like that would be fearful in a forum. 
Nevertheless, Mr. Roickle is welcome to consider these four general areas for debate: the Nature of racism on campus; the war in Viet Nam; recruitment and Notre Dame; and nuclear policy. I leave it to Dr. Roickle to contact me and elaborate on his desire as to specifics; i.e. wording of questions, time, numbers, etc. 
I would write at greater length, but unfortunately I am 
OBSERVER STAFF MEETING 
WOR ALL PERSONNEL) Friday at 4:20 
in the middle of an excttmg Hardy Boys mystery and cannot wait to go back and get more philosophy. 
Peas, 
.T.C. Treanor 
Misinformed 
Editor: 
In regard to your "Middle East Diplomacy" editorial of Feb. 17, l must inform you that in the area of Middle East affairs, you are exceptionally misinformed; to ignore the eu­phemism, you appear not to know your ass from the nearest oasis. 
Your conclusion that Nasser's 
reception in Cairo represents 
popular support has no validity; 
your logic book is becoming 
dusty. Nasser's reception in 
Cairo indicates two things: First, 
support for Nasser's regime is 
encouraged in much the same 
way that attendance at "missile 
parades" in Red Square is 
"encouraged"; such parades are 
rarely flops, or so Soviet films 
would have us believe. Second, 
the reception indicates that the 
average Egyptian probably has 
little more intelligence than your 
run of the mill camel. 
One would certainly hope 
that future editorials contain at 
least a minimum degree of 
rationality, but judging from 
past performance, this would 
not be a valid inference. 
Michael Oswald 
Flanner Hall 
Editor's note: Your letter says little about the Middle East but much about you. 
/ 
Rowdy SMC's Editor: We are writing this letter to express our sincere feelings con­cerning the group of art students from Saint Mary's who were recently guests of Cardinal Cush­ing College. In response to their request the college went to. great efforts to accomodate them hospitably. As guests they should have been more than willing to abide by the rules and regulations observed here. These rules and regulations are set up by and for the students' welfare, taking into consideration the area in which they reside. Perhaps their dis­satisfaction was due to their la!:k of knowledge concerning the college's policies, but we feel the responsibility rests on their shoulders especially since they requested accomodations. We feel that their actions were rude and inconsiderate, but mostly an outright insult to our college, the administration and the students themselves. Mamie Crosson Carolyn Pacyna Patricia Dubie Judy Anastasio Kate Kelly Terry Minkowski 129 Fisher Avenue 



WEDNESDAY, FE9RUARY 25, 1970 711E OBSERIIDt 
No student Interest 
Stone loses faith 1n• Senate 
(continued from page 1} 
the Senate I thought I could help remedy its past failings, but I've since grown disillusioned with the opportunities for posi­tive action." 
Stone complained that the present structure of the Student Government does not provoke student interest. He conceded that Senate decisions frequently suffer from the absence of stu­dent support. 
However, Stone contended that the failure of the Senate can also in part be attributed to the students. 
Stone admitted that the Sen­ate has not accomplished any­thing of great magnitude this year, and attributes this inaction to a number of factors. 
"This Senate year has been collectively characterized by a lack of forceful leadership by a lack of Senate action, a lack of student interest, the new and imperfect committee system, 
'and  the  changing  role  of  the  
·Senate  relative  to  the  SLC,"  
Stone observed.  

Stone laid a significant por­tion of the blame on SBP Phil ·McKenna, accusing him of fail-

Russ Stone 
Begin to plan Moratorium 
(continued from page 1} 
CPA, but who were none the less opposed to the war. 
Mike Shaughnessy cla1mea that the reason that the CPA was not better respected on campus was that it was so spread as to be "ineffective." He felt tha't an organization "specifically inter­ested in the issue of the war" could accomplish a great deal. Bill Golden suggested that the issue was too important to worry about what name the committee went under or with whom it was technically affiliat­ed. "It is the time for action not for semantics." 
Another CPA member chal­lenged anyone to say he. was against the war and not admit that ·it was a complex problem rooted in the kind of institutions that the CPA was attacking. Against this it was pointed out that the CPA was supposed to be a coalition of a number of differ­ent political viewpoints and that as such it should be able to work with the new committee. 
Towards the end of the meet­ing it was mentioned that all students who felt strongly nega­tive reactions to the draft might be interested to note that there would be a meeting in the La­Fortune center the next night at 
nine o'clock. The purpose would be the formation ot a group of conscientious objectors. 
SMC Assembly passes resolution 
Last night, the SMC Student Assembly met and voted on changes in student government regulations. Sophomore Irish McNamara re-opened the issue of class requirements for the highest elective student offices citing the favorable results of a recent phone survey. 
After discussion, a resolution passed permitting sophomores to run for student body president and student body-vice president with a vote I 0-3 and two absten­tions. 
Student body vice-president Beth Driscoll called for the for­mulation of guidelines concern-

TODAY FEB. 25 
TWO PEACE CORPS PRESENTATIONS BY FORMER VOLUNTEER ROYCE LANIER 
3:30 "TUNISIA" 
The effects of climate, materials and cultural patterns on architectural form. 
7:30 "BETWEEN TWO WORLDS" 
An analysis of Afghanistan, the physical, economic and cultural environment. 
ARCHITECTURE BUILDING 
AUDIT Rm. 202 
ing student opinion on the co-operative efforts between St. Mary's and Notre Dame. These guidelines are to be submitted to the SMC Executive Committee which meets March 14 and to the SMC-ND Executive Com­mittee of the Board of Trustees which meets March 20-21 to consider co-operation and future 
development. 
ing to communicate with the Senators and for failing to use the Senate as an extension of the voice of the students. 
Stone felt that the McKenna Administratjon has injected en­tirely too much politics into the 
Student Government at the ex-r--------------.....J..-------------1 
pense of necessary communi­cation with the students. 
"McKenna and Dedrick live in LaFortune," he added. "There is a definite need for a strong Stude~t Body President who will communicate with and interest the students." 
Agreeing that any form of government requires a certain amount of politics, Stone argued that the Student Government is guilty of an overemphasis on politics-an emphasis that is in­significant in reality. 
Stone concluded by express­ing the hope that Student 
Response to the proposal was fairly enthusiastic. There were some fifty sign-ups for the n ;WS­Ietter and an additional t'tenty wishing to work on the commit­tee. There were approximately forty five more people clustered around the desk or arguing poli­tics in the meeting room. l t should mean that March and April will see a vigorous mora­torium at Notre Dame. 
Apologies 
The Camus Conference apolo­gizes for its absurd presentation of The Stranger. Refunds will be given on Wednesday from I: 30 to 4:00p.m.; on Thursday, from 
·1:30 to 5:00p.m.; and on Fri­
day from l :30 to 5:00 p.m. in 
the Academic Commission Government in general and the Student Senate in partlcular can-be effective if and when both students and senators adopt a 
Office,  4th  floor,  LaFortune  
Student Center.  We  will try  to  
obtain  the  correct  film  for  a  
later date.  

totally di'fferent, more active, and more communicative atti­tude. 
PAGE 7 
Shady Oaks 
Is a camp for physically handicapped children. Many of these people live each year just for the 8 weeks at camp each summer. We need coun­selors both male and female for the coming summer. We need you to invest this 
summer in someone else. 
Contact Patrick Murray, 5423 N. Spaulding Chicago, Illinois 60625 
The DREAMS are coming ••• 
Think about It 
ADVERTISEMENT 

Why are these men laughing? Find out on The Don Adams Special: "Hooray for Hollywood"... brought to you by Budweiser®, the King of Beers®. Thurs­day, February 26, CBS-TV, 8 p.m. EST. 
Anheuser-Busch, Inc. • St. Louis 
APPLICATIONS ARE NOW BEING TAKEN FOR THE 
POSITION OF EDITOR OF THE OBSERVER 
THE POSITION IS OPEN TO ANY STUDENT 
OF NOTRE DAME OR ST. MARY'S 
APPLICATION MAY BE MADE BY SUBMITTING A STATEMENT OF INTENT TO 
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
c/o 'Gaetano M. De Sapio, Editor-in-Chief THE OBSERVER Box 11 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
The statement should contain a resume of qualifications 
as well as a statement of the applicant's concepts of the role 
and direction of THE OBSERVER. 
Applications must be filed by March 4. The applicant will be required to meet with the Board for a personal interview. 
Announcement of appointment and acceptance will be made on Friday, March /3. THE OBSERVER'S last publication date under the present editor will be Wed­nesday, March 25. Publication of THE OBSERVER will resume under the new editor on April 7. 
7/IB OBSERfiBt
PAGE a WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1970 
Understatement, Austin can do it all 
Photos by Joe Cottrell 

.._ .· 

-....... ~.,..~... ...,......~., ., 
.,.~~~-··.-·•, ~ 
.... ~...... ·...t~.;·~·
.-:~ ~~~~ 
Offense is his forte. His fakes leave the guards be-But he can do more: deadly from the foul line, hind; his body control baffles the big men. He is a tough on defense, chipping in with eight rebounds terror driving the lane, never really in any one place a game. Most of all, his attitude: working without at any one time, suddenly up-over-in and drawing the ball, always hustling, exhorting, rising to the 
the foul. And his outside shot--Ahhh! SOFT it is, occasion. whether flipped up at the end of a seemingly end-Team captain/record-breaker/dribbling to Dayton less hanging fallaway or guided in from long range. Austin Carr. 


