
Vol. V, No. 12 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College ('ommuni~J' September 24, 1970 
Ky to attend Victory March rally 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Des­N.J., also predicted at a news 
cans," Mclntin! said. "We'll be 
pite administration efforts to conference that the rally would 
carrying our Bibles. We'll have 
block his visit, Vice President attract 500,000 persons "and our emphasis on God." 
Nguyen Cao Ky of South Viet­possibly more." 
"I repudiate your reporting of 
nam will attend a March for Vic­But he disowned what he 
this rally as a pro-war rally,"
tory rally here Oct. 3 "unless the called a "handful" of "ultra­
Mcintire told a group of about 
providence of God dictates Nazi, fascist" groups that he said 
I 00 reporters at the National 
otherwise," the Rev. Carl his underground has learned are 
Press Club. "We oppose war. 
Mcln tire said yesterday. planning to crash the rally. 
This is a rally for victory to end 
Mcintire, a fundamentalist "They're not welcome," he said. 
the war, a rally for peace by vic­preacher from Collingswood, "We're here as decent Ameri­
tory." Mcintire said the March for Victory would begin Friday
Mid-East Roundup 
night, Oct. 2, with a memorial service and a prayer meeting on
AMMAN·-Jordan announce<fl''inadmissible" and urged the the steps of the Capitol. On
that its army repulsed invading Arabs to halt their "fractricial 
Saturday, demonstrators will
Syrian armored units after four conflict." 
gather on the mall at 4th Street
days of fighting and driven them i (more on page 3) 
about II a.m., and then march
back across the border. But the 
to the Washington Monument.
Palestinian guerrilla leader, Yas­ser Arafat, repudiated the latest Sen. Gordon L. Allott,
UEVENA-Premier Golda 
peace agreement announced by (R-Colo.), said Tuesday after
Meir said Israel holds Jordan re­
King Hussein to end the Jor· meeting with President Nixon at
sponsible for any Palestinian
danian Civil War. the White House that "every­
guerrilla attacks on Israel 
thing is being done, every in­
launched from J ordahian terri­
fluence brought to bear to keep
tory. She also said in a briefing 
him from attending this kooky
for visiting American newsmen rally."
WASHINGTON-The United that the Soviet Union is the big­States made plans to evacuate gest obstacle to peace in the about 200 Americans wishing to Middle East. leave Jordan, using chartered 

Jordanians repel Syria11ts
Airliners and relying on Jordan JORDAN (UPI)-Jordan said voiced "concern and anxiety" The rout of the Syrians wasto guarantee safe passage. 
VATICAN CITY-· Pope Paul announced Amman radio by
yesterday it drove invading over what he called the threat of on 
page VI devoted his entire address to al
(more on 2) Syrian tanks back across the bor­direct interference by the U.S. Marshal Habes Majali. Israeli 
the Jordanian Civil War, which 
der in "disorder and confusion." 6th Fleet now cruising in the military corre:;pondents con­he said could "renerate incal­The Soviet Union warned Wash-Mediterranean. firmed the Jordanian victory andMOSCOW-President Nikolai culable catastrc.phes." Vatican inton not to intervene mjlitarily In view of this situation, the said Jordan's tiny air force of 38
V. Podgorny of the Soviet Union sources said he has sent messages in the crisis between King Hus­Soviet foreign ministry through jet fighters broke the back of the
expressed concern about a threat urging peace to government 
sein and Palestinian guerrillas. its embassy in Washington told Syrian armored thrust and sentof intervention by the U.S. 6th leaders in the Middle East and Informed sources in Washing­the United States for the need of them fleeing back across the bor­fleet in the Jordanian Civil War. 
also to the Palestinian guerrilla 
ton said the United States plans all countries "to display cau­der.
He said foreign intervention was 
leader, Y asser Arafat. to start evacuating Americans tion," adding that any inter­"Since early today, our forces from Jordan today but in char­ference would further compli­have launche d fierce counter­tered civilian airliners, not with cate the Jordanian situation as a attacks and pursued the Syrians
Communication HPC goal 
the U.S. military units building whole." until they began to retreat in dis­on the organization of the up the Middle East. In Washington, the White order and confusion," Majali's by Tom Bornholdt Student Forum he could not say The warning by the Soviet House said the situation in Jor­statement said. 
Increased communication be­
exactly how he stood on the foreign ministry followed Soviet dan was still "very serious," and "AT 2:15 p.. m. (8:15 a.m., tween hall presidents is one of informed Washington sources EDT), the invaders completely the prime goals of the Hall Presi­said the United States had ar­withdrew across the Syrian­dents' Council according to John ranged for one and possibly two (Continued on page 2) Barkett, the Council's newly chartered commercial aircraft to elected chairman. Barkett also fly to Amman early today to 
Novak sends 
expressed a hope to institute evacuate about 200 Americans, meetings between rectors and if conditions permit. 
telegrams
hall presidents for increased The planes would be c!",ar­communication between the tered from the Middle East Air­by Kate Cassidy people he believes to be the two lines Co., if it appears the The Executive Cabinet of the most important persons in the evacuees can be moved safely to Notre Dame Student Govern­
hall. Amman airport and the planes ment responded Tuesday to the Barkett indicated that he was can land and take off without request by the National Student unable to be precise on the difficulty, the sources said. 
Association to "let the Ambassa­direction that the HPC would Syrian tanks moved into Jor­
dor of South Vietnam and the take, since the organization has dan during the weekend to sup­State Department know if Notre had only one meeting this year. port Palestinian Arabs battling 
Dame is upset about student Barkett regarded his position King Hussein's forces in the harassment in South Vietnam," twofold: · coordinator of news north and in the capital city of according to Steve Novak, Notre and acitivities between dorms, Amman. Jordan rushed ground 
Dame NSA coordinator. an.d spokesman for the general forces to the Irbid and Ramtha Telegrams were sent to both group. areas to block the invaders. 
the Ambassador of South Viet­Barkett regarded the referen­nam and Secretary of State dum, parietal hours and the William Rogers, protesting the Judicial Code as the most impor­treatment of "in particular ... H



Sophomore car prlvlledges await 
tant upcoming issues. He was. uynh Tan Mam." In the telegram skeptical of teh HPC's involve­to the State department, the 
ment with teh referendum since Student Ufe Cou'nclf action "sincerity of our government in 
the Constitution of the organiza­it committee to freedom and tion limits the statements it can by Ed Ellis received in their information sent the Sophomore Car Bill, democracy" was questioned. make on issues involving hall packets at registration in the be-. Both telegrams were signed by
Dean of Students Rev. James drawn up and researched by the
life. Barkett also felt that there ginning of the year. He explain­"Studend govemment, Univer­
Riehle said yesterday that de­Senate last year, to the SLC at
has already been too much talk ed that the cards were given to sity of Notre Dame."
spite reports to the contrary, its next meeting. Riehle siad he 
on pairetals. sophomore because some sopho­Novak explained that this ac­
there ar,e no sophomore car opposed the passage of the bill
Barkett stated several times mores are living off-campus; and tion was meant to coordinate
priviledge:s and there will be because, in his opinion, "There's
that the responsibilities of hall these students are allowed to with the attemplt of NSA to call 
none until such time as the stu­not enough room for them."
government are pressing upon have cars. It was not possible, he attention to what ·they term"
dent Life Council acts on the re­
Hall Presidents. Barkett admitt­said to give cards only to off­Stay Senator Fred Giuffrida, the repressive policies of the
solution passed by the Student
ed to doubts about the proposed -campus sophomores, and thus Thieu-Ky government in South
Senate last year. co-sponsor of the Senate bill last Student Forum. they were given to all sopho­year, said her could no Vietnam." _
see 

"It all depends on how it is Riehle also said that about mores. trouble in passage since Senate Mam, the president of the 
structured," he said about the twenty-two sophomores had Student Body President Dave investigation had discovered suf­Saigon Student Union, was alled­Forum, claiming that he had tried to register their cars with ficient space for the autos. gedly arrested and has been held 
Krashna s"id that he would pre­
heard so many different versions the "Vehicle Information" cards in prison since August 30. 

September 24, 1970 
Page 2 


Americans to fly out of Jordan; peace need 
(Continued from page 1) 

Jordanian border into Syrian ter­ritory in the dir~ction of Deraa." 
The announcement said the invaders suffered heavy losses in vehicles and equipment." 
A Jordanian mi!hary spokes­man earlier said a reinforced Syrian armored division of more than 15,000 men had entered Jordan with at least 285 tanks and I 00 armored personnel car­riers. He put Syrian tank losses at 91 Russian-built T55s and 54s before the battle yesterday and said Jordan lost 19 Patton and Centurion tanks. 
US plans evacuation 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The United States plans to try to evacuate about 200 Americans from Jordan Thursday using chartered planes and Jordanian forces rather than American troops for protection, informed sources said Wednesday. 
The United States made the decision to try to get some U.S. citizens out of Amman despite 
MOVI£ L01TFRY 

fc,l-ONLY n•.-u·ntl)· 
n'jr! i~1t·n-d (ll J!un i7u 

1i« ~n~ 1'' t-.· twld Tut~du). ~t·p1t·mht·J" 
29th ht·1\\t't'n 7W­
9('() p m. ('ul1 7757 
dm inJ! tht~t· h(l\11~ 
ft\1. uppl it 111 itfl. A II 
Ou~uni7l11 M'N--Mu.~..• 

Rt'J!~1t'l 8)· M(fldUl' 
confirmation from its own 
sources that substantial numbers 
of invading Syrian troops had 
withdrawn from Jordan. 

In announcing U.S. confirma­tion of reports that some Syrian forces were returning to Syria, White House Press Secretary Ronald Ziegler said the situation was "still serious." 
'.'There was ·a serious conflict going on in Jordan before the in­vasion adn those problems are still there," Ziegler said. 
"It must be remembered that this is a conflict not being entire­ly fought by regular forces." 
"As we understand it, there is still much to be done before full Jordanian government control is restored in the north," Ziegler said. 
The U.S. view is that the sit­uation in King Hussein's embat­tled nation is still serious appar­ently led to the decision to try to get some U.S. nationals out. 
The informed sources said the United States had arranged for one and possibly two chartered commercial airliners to fly to Amman early Thursday, if con­ditions t!_lere permit. 
NOTRE DAME AND IT.MARY'IITUDENTS 
You're Invited 

OTRE DAME LAW SCHOO OPEN HOUSE 

Saturday, October J, 1970 L B 'ld' 9 30 
aw Ul mg : a.m. to 12:30 p.m. EOT 
Law As A Profession LSAT Exam __ What It Means, What It Is 
How To Take It Legal Educational Opportunities In The U.S. Program At Notre Dame Law School Notre Dame's Admission and Scholastic Policy Legal Educational Methods 
"=~!!!!!!C!a!r!e~er~O~p~p~o!r!tu!::n::I::·t~ie~s~In~La=~w~~~~~~~~~~~ 
c .. 



and BUSH 

In the ACC Sept. 25 8:30 PM 
0 N SALE AT GILBERT'S, 
BOOKSTORE AL SMITH'S RECORDS, 
DON KEENE'S, DINING HALLS AND 
STUDEN"t' UNION TICKET OFFICE 
(4-6pm). PRESENTED llY STUDENT 
UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION A C .C. 
Shortly afte~ Majali's state­
ment, King Hussein and Premier 
Gaafar el Numeiry announced 
over Radio Amman that an 
agreement had been reached to 
end the civil war in which Arab 
reports said at least 15 ,000 per­
sons had been killed and thou­
sands more wounded or threat­
ened by starvation and disease. 
Numeiry was a member of a 
four nation mediation team sent 
to Amman by the Cairo Arab 
summit conference. Numeiry 
said the agreement was approved 
by five Palestinian guerrilla 
leaders -four of whom had 
been released earlier by Hussein 
as a peacemaking gesture. 

One of the Palestinians, Salah Khalaf, alias Abou lyyad, des­cribed as the No. 2 man in AI Fatah -went on Amman radio 
Huddle till 12:30 

Bob Ohlemiller, Assistant Commissioner of Research and Development, announced yester­day tentative plans for keeping the Huddle open until 12:30 
A.M. seven nights a week beginn­ing this Friday. 
Ohlemiller said that the re­sults of a recent survey were overwhelmingly in favor of ex­tending Huddle hours. Through the cooperation of Mr. Edmund Price, director of food services, this will be done with staffing for the facility being run through Personell Department. He said that the 12:30 time limit was temporary, ana might be ex­tended to 2 A.M. if business warrants. 
Dr. Wright on campus today 
Dr. Nathan Wright, Chairman of the Department of Afro-American Studies at the 
State University of New York at Albany, will be on campus today in a series of discussions and will appear in the Library Audita­rium tonight at 8:00 p.m. as the 
first  speaker of the year's  Dis­ 
tinguished Lecture Series_  
A  former  clergyman,  Dr.  

Wright has written extensively on religious subjects as well as on social and educational issues. ·•••••••••••••••••••••
• AMERJCA 
·: . • :

:LoU McKenzie 
e 
• F l R~\ 

: t (~
: 

• 
: : 
: 
e : 
to announce his support for the vene. The Palestine Central Com­peace proposals outlined by Hus­mittee also repudiated the agree­sein in a previous broadcast. ment in statements carried by 
The proposals included an end the guerrilla radios in Damascus to guerrilla bases in Amman and and Baghdad, Iraq. other cities, withdrawal of guer­There still was no word on the rillas to the frontline with Israel whereabouts of 54 air hijack and freedom for the Jordanian hostages including 38 Americans army to operate anywhere in the being held by the guerrillas. King country. Hussein told newsmen on Tues­
A short time later, however, day that his troops made a fruit­Arafat, who is the leader of the less house-to-house search of combined guerrilla forces. re­Amman for the hostages. There jected the peace agreement and were reports that the hostages appealed to Egyptian President had been transferred to the Gamal Abdel Nasser to inter-nort'l. 





Fieldhouse rally 
•


concerns secur1ty 
by Fred Schaeffer 

Rob Barteletti, Chairman of the University Arts Council and Security Director Arthur Pears both expressed their concern yesterday over the possibility of a "spontaneous" rally in the old fieldhouse Friday night. 
Despite the fact that the rally has been scheduled for Stepan Center people have voiced the belief that students will break into the fieldhouse and · hold their own impromptu gathering. The fieldhouse was broken into by students last year in the rally before the Michigan State game. 
Barteletti expressed the hope that the building will be left alone. Inside is a large 21 ton stone which a grad student is sculpting, Barteletti explained. He feared that if the fieldhouse is broken into, the stone will be overturnr.d, which he feels might 
His forthcoming Reform, Re­pression or Revolution? has been hailed as a "powerful statement 
of the need for immediate and extensive change as th only alter­native to national catastrophe." 
Dr. Wright warns that per­vasive racism coupled with grow­ing automation and increased 
emphasis upon over-population 
during the 1970's will lead both 
consciously and unconsciously 
toward efforts as black genocide. The topic of his address tonight will be "Let's work together." At 1:00 he will meet with Dr. 
Rytina's Sociology of Poverty 

• 
class in the Library Auditorium. 

At 2:30 he will meet with stu­dents in Alumni Hall and at 3:30 he will meet with students of 

• 
Dillon Hall. Dr. Wright is being sponsored 


:£•a... Sat. ($1 CM)9 Academic Commission in con­
-,-• ~ junction with the departments : : of black studies, sociology, gov­: : :emment and history. 
~::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::;:;;:::::::::::~:~:~:~:=:::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;::::::::::: 
:~1~: -FINAL NOTICE ~~\~ 
I l 
~~~~ For Payment of Debts ~~~~ 
All persons with claims for payment or refund on books held by the now defunct Notre Dame Book Exchange should and must file requests for such payment on Thurs­day, September 24, 1970 between 7 and 9. 
This claim for all books held by the Book Exchange should be brought to the 
NOTRE DAME BOOK EXCHANGE 
Fiesta Lounge Tonight 
I by the Notre Dame-St. Mary's 
result in the death of several people. It would also destroy the work of the art student. 
The fieldhouse might also be torn down, if it is used for rallys, Barteletti claimed. He explained that it was saved from destruc­tion last year as an art center for 
the  students,  and  not  as  an  
athletic  building  or  a  hall  for  
pep  rallys.  

"I give students more credit than that-! think they will realize that the fieldhouse is now their Art Center. 
Security Director Arthurs Pears commented on the matter, "I have no indications of any trouble, this is the first I've heard about it." He said no special security precautions have been planned. 
However, he said if the field­bouse is broken into, "It would be breaking and entering; if we know who any of the people in­volved are, they will be subject to disciplinary action. They have no more business there than if they tried to hold a rally in the Chemistry department or the Physics department." 

ROTC ousted 
ROTC cadets will no longer conduct the flag raising cere­mony preceeding home football games, according to David Krashna. SBP. 
Krashna said yesterday that University Provost Rev. James T. Burtchaell had decided upon a new procedure to be followed in pregame ceremonies. Under the new system, Krashna himself would present the flag to civil­ians specially selected each week. For the Purdue game this Saturday, Mr. and Mrs. Donald O'Brien, the former President of the Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion, will raise the flag. For the second game, Mr. Edmund Stepan, Chairman of the Univer­sity Board of Trustees, and his wife will do the honors. The rest of the season is not planned yet but Krashna said he plans to have the tutors and tutorees of the Neighborhood Study Help Program for the third game of the year. 
FOOTBALL SATURDAY CHILD CARE ND, SMC STUDENTS; I\1UCH EXPE RIENCE $1 PER HOUR AND 
FAMILY RATES CALL 272-6187 
-. 
-·~-­
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

---------------------------------., 
Page 
3 



ABCW reques
dent Assembly would help them of the request was postponed
by Sue Muller 
achieve this goal. until the Student Assembly has The Student Assembly dis-Th(: Association plans to pro-
an itemized report of what all cussed the allocation of five hun-vide some inexpensive activities 
expenditures will be. dred dollars to t: te Association for poorer students. According 
The Student Assembly also of Black Collegiate Women to Miss Downing most black stu­passed this year's budget at the (ABCW) at their meeting last dents cannot afford many activi­meeting. It was decided that the night. ties such as the concerts and Student Assembly will no longer Paula Downing, president of football games. The ABCW also subsidize the hall governments at the ABCW, was at the meeting plans to have several speakers for St. Mary's. If a hall has no funds to present the request to the the black students, \1iss Down­at all the Student Assembly Student Assembly. Paula told ing said. Further plans include dediced that it will make the hall the meeting that she felt it is dif-sending representatives to black 
a loan. ficult to come to SMC as a mino-conferences in the area. Stude,nt Services Organizationirty student. Miss Downing be-' Miss Downing stated that she requested only $1500 from the lieves that the ABCW can im-felt iit is important that St. assembly this year instead of the prove the situation and that the Mary's be represented at these 
three 'thousand they said they money requested from the Stu-· ·conferences. Further discussion 
needed last year. 
The salaries of president and 

vice-president of the Assembly, 
Anne Marie Tracey and Jeanne 
Gorman were raised this year 
MOSCOW (UPI) ~-The Soviet in the:ir steps in connection with from $300 to $500. 

Soviets war11 US 
Union said last night its embassy the present complicated situa­in Washington has delivered a tion in the Middle East, and also warning to the United States to the fact that any interference against military intervention in from the outside into the events the Jordanian crisis. in Jordan would further compli­
The warning by the Soviet cate the situation in the Middle foreign ministry followed Soviet East and the international situa­President Nikolai V. Poclgorny's tion as a whole." voiced "concern and anxiety" Earlier Wednesday, Podgorny over what he called the threat of said any foreign interference in direct interference by the U.S. the Jordanian Civil War is "inad­6th Fleet in the Middle East. missible." 
In an official statement issued last night, the foreign ministry 
:··················· 
said: 
"In view of the increasing • • concentration of the forces of : '~MERICA • : the Sixth American Fleet in the eastern Mediterranean as well as other war preparations by the United States in the area, the 
•

Soviet government called the at­• •• tention of the government of the !BIEAUTIFUL!! USA through the embassy of the USSR in Washington to the need • 
September 24, 1970 

THE CULTUI~AL ARTS COMMI!~SION NEEDS YOlll 

Cinema71 CAF Soph.Lit.F:estival
.................





flint·····­

TicketM•n... Ticket Sellers ContKt BOB BRINKMIANN 
c·ulturnl At1~ c·cmmi~'ion ~ Bl'x 4Z1 2nd flc~lt· LnForturw 

Judli! inJ! Hull Di~pln)~ Pt'l' Rull) ··Blue. kc'tJ1 .. Dnnu· \\ ith tht· Nt·iJ!htc,.-m~ld 

HOMECOMING 
"safehouse" Free Fo• Concer1t Concert 

for all states to display caution : : Gt·t Y''lll G J. BliU( "'-'
.•••.••••••••••••••••• ~~~~=~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~-=~~~~
,.•...............................•••...•..•.........• 

i BLESSED ARE THOSE · i i WHO HAVI~ BUTTONS i i FOR THEY MIGHT WIN i i SOME NEAT STUFF !
• 
e Yes boys and girls, we're giving thingse away. Namely gift certificates from· e • GILBERT'S CAMPUS SHOP and record • e albums from Billboard's Best-Seller list. • 
• •e 
• 
Want some? Hen:!'s what you do: clutch 

• 
your little ''WSNiil DOES IT!" button in •• your little hand. IN ow take the pin out of • 


• 
your hand. Now turn it over and see e what's on the bac:k. A letter? A number? e e Nothing at all? nlo matter, every button e e can be a winner. Now what you do is e e listen (aha! the proverbial catch!) to e e Fighting Irish Radio on WSND--flame e 
• 
along with us from rally until game time-• e and wait for us to ask for your button. • 

• 
We will. When we do, rush up to our 

• 
studios and become the proud owner of •• • something. Easy. • 


iWSND DOES IT••••FR££ 640 i 
~...........................•.••....................., 

Page 4
September 24, 1970 THB OBSBIHI!'R. 

Clarence Ellis -A tutor that can tackle 
I may stick with him man for tough. Ernie Hennings of the Air
by Terry Shields 
man, or I may anchor on that Force Academy was the tough­Observer Sports Editor side in that certain zone, de­est assignment that Clarence has 
Clarence Ellis is quite a per­pending on wha~ we feel our faced. He wasn't as fast as Sam son. He is a good student at opponents are trying to do." Dickerson from USC, but he what he considers is one of the The reasons for choosing Ellis could cut real quick and he had top universities in the country. to cover the best receiver of Irish great moves." In his spare time he· helps to foes is obbious. He is fast, Ellis doesn't feel that he could tutor underprivileged children. quick-reactioned and a sure tack­truly rate a quarterback as And on fall Saturday afternoons ler. He is probably the fastest "!best" or "toughest." He has to he plays defensive halfback for man on the ND squad. In high concentrate too much on the re­Ara Parseghian like no other school he was clocked at 9.9 in ceiver to keep an eye on the man in college football. And the hundred yard dash but as thrower. "The real faki!Y ones that's why he has been selected Clarence says, "I think I'm faster can give any defense: some on a number of pre-season All­than that now." trouble." America teams. Although he likes the zone de­After the football season is 
Ellis, a six foot, 160 pound fense against aerials, he really over Clarence shifts his concen­junior from Grand Rapids, prefers the challenge of man for tration from fleet receivers to Michigan, played remarkably man coverage. "I think you learn small children from the inner well last season as a sophomore great respect for a person when city. "I really enjoy helping and he feels that he can still im­you are matched against him those kids. I think that I might · 
prove. "In the first few games one-on-one." even want to go into the sort o f 
last year, I was learning quite a Clarence prefers to work on work after graduation. It doesn't bit. But by the end of the season his man from close-up, unlike n:quire a whole lot of time from I slacked off somewhat. What I many corner-backs who fear my schedule right now and those 
have to learn is consistency. "getting burned on the bomb." klds can use the help." The Irish cornerback feels
Some plays I'm on a guy's heels I'll give the man up ~o five yards and the next time I'm sitting on but when the ball arrives I want that the team has a definite 
my tail." cl1ance to become No. I this sea­
to be there." 
Evidently the Notre Dame son. "We play a good schedule
There is no preference as to coaching staff feels that Ellis im­which type of receiver Ellis and {think we have the talent to proved enough to put the major go all the way. I think you have
would rather cover. He has play­
responsibility for pass defense to feel that way. Negativism is a
ed against the big, strong tight on his shoulders. "In our 4-4-3 ends and the shifty, speedy handicap." defense my job is to flip-flop on Unlike many athletes who
flankers. "The hardest man to 
the side of the field where the have heroes and personal inspira­
cover isn't necessarily the fas­
tions, Ellis feels that he mustopoonent's best receiver sets up. test, Q_ut the quick ones are 
just go out and play the game. "I Terry Shields :::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:::::::::=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:::::::=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::= don't try to imitate anybody but 
I try to set my standards to those of that dude from Detroit, Lem Barney. Man, he's really tough. As far as heroes or inspi­

The Irish Eye 
rations go I just can't think of anyone. You have to be your­self. I'm me and that's it." 


Notre Dame fans should feel happy that Ellis is Ellis. He's the 
This weekend is probaf?ly the biggest home game of the season. 
type who will probably haveMost of the campus has been buzzing in expectation of the battle 
some under-privileged kid
royal that will be waged in The Stadium on Saturday. With all of this pattern himself after someday.
excitement the famed Notre Dame spirit should be approaching an That's Clarence Ellis. That's theall-time high. 
klnd of person he is. 
Nobody wants to see this happen more than this writer, but, 
before everyone gets caught up in the "Notre Dame thing," this desk 
would like to remind the student body exactly what spirit consists 
of. 
The pep rally has long been the symbol and full expression of "spirit" but unfortunately it has degenerated into nothing more than a "Zoo Show." This is not one man's opinion. Former ~D captain Jim Lynch ( 1966 team, if you've forgotten) once said, "I remember going to the pep rallies as a freshman and looking up at all of the animals. By senior year I remember sitting up in the balcony and 
looking down at all the aminals." 
What is trying to be said hereis that spirit is not boorish behavior. It is not trying to maul that "cute looking chick two rows over to your left." It is not seeing who can earn the title of "grossest man in the section" by yelling obscenities at the top of your lungs. 
The Vikings are a group of students whose purpose was originally 
to instill some spirit into what they though was a rather dead 
student body. This department backs the idea I 00%. Unfortunately 
some of the Norsemen get a little carried away with their cheers and 
it has been more than once that Fr. Riehle, Dean of Students, has 
received complaints about this group. 
In their desire to show spirit, some students may even destroy one of the oldest traditions in the school's history. This tradition concerns our fine marching band, the Band of the Fighting Irish, and their performances at pep rallies. The director of the band, Robert 
F. O.Brien, has made clear that the rough treatment that the bandsmen receive on rally nights must cease or the band will no longer play. 
This is no joke. Many band members have been injured by thrown objects and souvenier hunters. When you think about it, it seems ludicrous that there must be a "Meat Squad" solely for the purpose of protecting the band. 
Another point that was called to the attention of this desk is the students who charge onto the field at halftime to show support for the team. This writer might have been able to buy this idea at one time, but if one examines exactly what goes on out there, the whole ritual seems a little self-defeating. If people run onto the field to show support why do they break their lines even before half the squad has taken the field? • 

The coaches have expressed more than once their desire to keep people off the field during halftime. Fr. Riehle received even more complaints about this last season when a few people were hurt (some with broken bones) by the "boys" who charged on the field to back their team. The students place is in the stands. It's best that he show support from there. 
Tomorrow night's rally is in the Stepan Center. This shouldn't really matter. It is still a Notre Dame rally, therefore it should still be a spirited affair even if it's not in the fieldhouse. But as a fellow student this writer asks one favor. Cheer loud, long and lively, but please, do it with class. Do it with respect for others. It's the right way. It's the Notre Dame way. 
'No, they 

didn't hit 
hard~ 
Vena ParaskePas, Purdue Linebacker 
Sept. 27,1969 
STUDENTS fOB REORDERED PRIORITIES 
... so WHAT GO IRISH! 
Bt u1 Pt•r dut· 


All-American candidate Clarence Ellis played a standout defensive game against Northwestern last Saturday. He held ace receiver Barry Pearson without a reception. After the game coach Alex Agase called him "a fine ballplayer." 




Voices from the crowd 
Editor: university. Nevertheless, l see nothing I was quite disappointed to wrong with taking the next few 

15ee an advertisement in the Ob­days and showing a concern for server sponsored by Students for beating Purdue Saturday. For Reordered Priorities taking a "so those looking for a cause, con­
what" attitude concerningthe sider the fact that no member of Purdue game. I'm not criticizing the undergraduate student bodythese priorities of the people 
has ever seen Notre Dame beat committed to them. Purdue while on campus. 
However, I can't see that the Is it really a lot to ask for a loyalty to and the pride of your couple of days of concern for school shown in the concern of beating Purdue when it takes 
winning an important football years for reordered priorities to game is a neglect of reordered be achieved? priorities. Football at Notre Dame has a great tradition but it Marty Kuharich is only a part of the whole 445 BP 


MAJOR LEAGUES 

NATIONAL LEAGUE  AMERICAN LEAGUE  
East  w  L  Pet.  GB  East  w  L  Pet.  GB  
Pittsburgh  83  71  .539  xBaltimore  100  54  .649  
Chicago  80  72  .526  2  New York  88  67  .568  12'h  
New York  80  74  .519  3  Boston  82  73  .529  18'h  
St. Louis  72  1!!1  .471  10'h  Detroit  76  78  .494  24  
Philadelphia  70  84  .455  13  Cleveland  74  81  .477  26'h  
Montreal  68  86  .442  15  Washington  70  83  .458  29'h  
West  
x Cincinnati  98  58  .628  xMinnesota  93  61  .604  
Los Angeles  84  70  .545  13  Oakland  85  70  .548  8'h  
San Fran.  83  71  .539  14  California  81  73  .526  12  
Atlanta  75  80  .484  22'h  Kansas City  62  92  .403  31'h  
Houston  72  82  .468  25  Milwaukee  60  94  .390  33  
San Diego  59  95  *383  38  Chicago  54  99  .353  38  

xCiinched division title New York at Philadelphia, night Montreal at Pittsburgh, night Cleveland at Boston, night Chicago at St. Louis, twi-night Kansas City at Chicago, night San Diego at Atlanta, night Minnesota at Oakland, night Houston at Cincinnati, night California at Milwaukee, night San Francisco l:tt Detroit at Baltimore, night SanFrancisco at Los Angeles, night Washington at New York, night 




