
VOL. IV NO. 135 Serving the Notre Dame and Sa{nt Mary's College Community FRIDAY,MAY 22,1970 
South Viet territorial plans hit 
WASHINGTON (Ul'l)-Senate what he described as South Viet­there." 
Democratic lt:ader Mike Mans­nam's historical interest in Cam­Ky also called for South Viet-• field said yestt:rday South Viet­bodia. nam, Cambodia, Laos, and Thai­nam's leaders have territorial de­Senate Republican leader land to form an "anti-Commun­
signs on Cambodia. Hugh Scott said there was still a ist front line" to shorten the war The Montana senator, a stu­
chance consensus language could in Indochina. be worked out between support­Ky's statements on the Cam­
dent of Asian history, said he ers and opponents of legislation bodian campaign were made inwas alarmed at statt:ments by to cut off funds for the U.S. an address to the graduatingNguyen Cao Ky, South Vietnam­military expedition to Cambod­class at South Vietnam's Nation­t:se viet: president, that Saigon's ia. al Defense Co!lege. They cametroops would remain in Cambod­But Scott conceded that the ·amid continuing assurances fromia . after American forces are chances of an accord had lessen­the Nixon administration that allwithdrawn. 
ed directly when "those con­U.S. troops would be withdrawn "It appears to me that they're sidering what would protect the from Cambodia by July I.
going to conduct their own cam­President" disagret:d. South Vietnam has made itpaign and wt:'ll become involved clear the Nixon pledgt: does notwith advisors and support Vice President Nguyen Cao apply to its troops, and Ky
troops," Mansfield sai<l. Ky said yesterday the allied of­reiterated that point Thursday.
Asked if he bt:lieved South fensive in Cambodia was a deci­Vietnam had territorial designs sive turning point in the war and "Many peoplt: have assumed on Cambodia, he said he did. He that South Vietnamest: troops that if the United States troops added that h~ felt that the Nix­would remain on Cambodian soil were withdrawn from the Cam­on administration was aware of "as long as the Communists fight bodian battlefield Vietnamese 
Georgia march continues face heat and Maddox 
fORSYTII,  Ga.  (UPI)  A  others wore sombreroes in a vain  ta.  Initial  forecast  was  for  a  
blazing sun  and 90 degree tem­ attempt  to ward off the merci­ crowd of I 0,000, but the SCLC  
peratures  punished  the "opres­ less sun, which blazed down on  offic e in Atlanta said Thursday  
sion" marchers yesterday in the  Route  41  and  bouced  back in  the estimate  was  growing daily.  
third day of a II0 mile trek to Atlanta to protest riot and campus killings. The number of marchers, most of them blacks, dropped from about 300 to 250 as the procession made its way out of Macon and headed northward 25 miles to forsyth, the Thursday night stopping point. A few people gathered in their front yards to watch marchers as they hiked along the hot pave­ment chanting, "soul power"  their faces. The marchers set out from Perry, in the heart of Georgia's peach growing region, Tuesday to protest the six deaths that occurred during the Augusta ri­oting, and six others at Kent State University in Ohio and Jackson State University in Mis­sissippi. The demonstrators said they were marching against oppres­sion and what Dr. Ralph David  Gov. Maddox, who ordered the National Guard into Augusta when rioting broke out there a week and a half ago, said the Guardsmen would again be avail­able Saturday in the event the demonstration gets out of hand. The Atlanta Police Depart­ment plans to have its entire force on duty during the protest. Many of those in the line of march yesterday appeared to be high school students, who joined the demonstration at Macon.  
and "Lester can't put us all in jail!" They referred to Gov. Lester Maddox. Some marched with colorful towels draped over their heads, or slung around their necks, and  Abernathy, head of the South­ern Christian Leadership Confer­ence SCLC, termed the "shoot to kill mentality" in America. The march is to end with a massive demonstration in Atlan- Relatively few seem to be sticking with the march on a continuing basis, but as a group from one town drops out, a group from the next community fills the gap.  

., 
~ 
.,.. 
~-· ~ ,. " ""'-~. k#J~ . ­
. , I ' , .. 
. . . I .:· 
(UPI) -Sun tan lotion and a picnic basket would be the right combination to go with a revised weekend weather forecast. 
The Weather Bureau altered its earlier outlook for the next to last weekend for May from "cooler" to "quite warm" with highs in the 80's and low 90's. Mid afternoon ternperatul'es Thursday showed mid-80 degree readings around the state, Lafayette reporting a warm 90. 
Friday's highs were expected to be in the 80's and 90's again, ranging from 83 to 92, after lows in the upper SO's and mid-60's. The lows through the wee!<-end will generally be in the 60's and 70's. 
troops would have to be with­drawn too," Ky said. 
"But our forces are strong enough to conduct separate operations in Vietnamese terri­tory as well as Cambodian terri­
"You will see the presence of our troops as long as the Com­munists fight there. As long as it is necessary for us to maintain our entity, we will continue to maintain the presence of our 

Dr. Rita c..ldy 
SMC's Cassidy gives Vietnam's history 
by Mike McCarry Dulles instead favored a coali­tion of Western powers, which
"Our policy of containment would include the Asian nationshas always been a negative one, as well. The United States woulddesigned to prevent the Com­be the leader of this "cordonmunists from doing something," around the communist world."
Rita Cassidy stated in a Corn­It was at this time that Nixonmuniversity lecture yesterday. 
carne out in favor of direct"Our actions have had no posi­military intervention, if neces­tive thrust. A negative policy is sary by the United States alone.
always a weak one." 
"In other words, the UnitedMiss Cassidy, a history profes­States would replace the French sor at St. Mary's, spoke to about in tht: fight against communismforty students in the Library in Asia," Miss Cassidy said. 
Auditorium. Her lecture traced Despite American opposition,the historical development of the Geneva agreement wasthe Vietnamese situation since signed by the French and theWorld War II. 
Viet Minh after the decisive de­After the war, the French feat of the Europeans. The a­wished to regain their old posi­greement had two parts.
tion in Indochina. They decided The cease-fire agreement itself in 1947 to stake everything on called for troop withdrawals intoforce. This decision, according sectors divided by the 17th par­to Miss Cassidy, led to eight allel. The final declaration stated years of all-out war with the that the line was only provision­nationalist forces of Ho Chi al, and that elections would be'Minh. 
held in 1956. Miss Cassidy statedTalk of aid to the French that under the agreement "pro­began in the United States as vided peace returned to this areaearly as 1950. France could not and other nations kept theircontinue without aid. The Uni­hands off, the government of theted States had to choose be­South could, in two years, ex­tween aiding a colonial power press the will of the people toand permitting communism to unite under Ho Chi Minh." 
spread. The concept of the Miss Cassidy believes that thedomino theory and the policy of negotiated settlement had atcontainment resulted from the least some possibilities of suc­choice to aid France. 
cess, if carrit:d out in its trueThe only possibility of a polit­spirit.
ical solution was a nt:gotiated "If elections had been held insettlt:rnent, according to Miss 1956, there is no doubt llo ChiCassidy. 'When the United States Minh would have won," Miss·became involved, the possibility Cassidy said. "This is why theof negotiation began to dimin-United States backt:d Diem inish," she said. 
opposing the elections. It comesThe United States opposed down to the question of"contain­negotiations with llo Chi Minh, ment. We would not allow freesince any compromise with the choice when it was obvious thatcommunists would be contrary the communists would win."
with their policy. 
(continued on page 6) 
----., 
PAGE 2 
THE OBSERfJER 


S. Viet forces drive; 
U.S. death toll rises 
SAIGON (UPI) -South Viet­namese forces drove 20 miles into Cambodia along the coast of the Gulf of Siam Thursday in a move to choke off Communist supply lines. Heavy fighting was reported on another Cambodian battlefront 50 miles from Phnom Penh, the capital. 
Pentagon reports said COSVN-the Communist head­quarters for the Vietnam War which President Nixon said was a major goal of the Cambodian offensive-has been moved to 

jungles outside the 21 mile limit imposed on U.S. troops. 
In Saigon, U.S. headquarters reported 21 7 Americans were killed in action in Vietnam and Cambodia last week, the highest toll for any seven-day period in nine months. Military sources said 77 Americans were slain in the Cambodian theater of oper­ations. 
Military sources in Saigon said South Vietnamese infantrymen 
Applications are now being accepted for the position of: 
CULTURAL ARTS DIRECTOR 
Applications should include your thoughts con­cerning the role of the commission and the director. Applications for people who want to work on the Commission are also being accepted. A Business Manager and Public Relations Director are urgently 
needed. Send to: BOB POHL 
BOX 427 
DEADLINE FOR APPLICATIONS -MAY 22 


ATTENTION 
. SENIORS! BECOME A MONTESSORI 

TEACHER 
DEMAND TWICE THE SUPPLY 
Next training program June 23rd -August 8t-h. IN CHICAGO 
LEADS TO NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED AMS-CER TIFICA TE 
Write; Midwest Montessori Teachers Training Center 
ATTENTION AMS 1010 W. CHICAGO AVE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 
60222 
Courses will be taught on the beautiful grounds ofRosary College. 
and armored columns were meeting little resistance in their thrust 20 miles deep into Cam­bodia along the coast of the Gulf of Siam. 
The South Vietnamese col­umn was reported to have driven past the port of Kep and near the outskirts of Kampot 50• miles from Kompong Sam­Cambodia's largest post. U.s.· and South Vietnamese warships prowled the gulf in a blockade against Communist suppiy ves-· sels. 
An official communique issued in the Cambodian capital of Phnom Penh said Cambodian forces had captured Tonie Bet, 50 miles northeast of Phnom Penh but field reports said bitter fighting was continuing. 
Allied military sources in Sai­gon said the drives into Cam bod­ia have killed 8,433 Communist· troops and brought in 1,175 prisoners. 
U.S. 
headquarters said 166 Americans had been killed and 677 wounded since U.S. forces first crossed the border in May 

l. 
South Vietnamese losses were placed at 591 killed and 2,042 wounded. 



-~------------.. 
FRIDAY,MAY 22,1970 
r 


Captain Poland (Phil Kukielski) was elected this year's Ugliest Man on Campus. He narrowly edged out Chief Mud in the Face in the voting which took place last week. The Ugly Man Contest, which is run by Alpha Phi Omega, netted about $80 for the Biafran Relief Program. 
Benefit set for Saturday night 
BY Don Ruane A special benefit for the Council of the International Lay Apostalate will be held tomor­row night at America. The affair will run from 8:30 p.m. until l 
a.m. and feature nine folk sing­ing acts and two poetry readings. Admission to the benefit will be seventy-five cents. All proceeds will go to the council to finance their summer projects. 
Arrangements for the benefit 
were  made  by  CILA  treasurer  
Dave  Pais  and CILA  volunteer  
Mike  Canale  with  the  student  

managers. The folk singing acts will be John and Phil, Pat Clin­ton, Jim Moran and Paul Guern­sey, and Jim Balcersky of the Morning Glory Brigade. Also the January Rain, Mike McCool, Alan Zwicker, Melaine Mandich and an act from Detriot. Poetry will be read by Roy Holscher and Steve Brion. CILA was formed nine years ago. It was modeled after the Peace Corps and designed for the 
person who wants to do social work but can not devote a full year to the job. The council is 
composed of Notre Dame and St. Mary's volunteers. 
Pais said the council is "de­signed to build good will through social action projects." The projects are conducted dur­ing the summer months in the United States, Latin· America and South America. CILA will work in West Virginia, Harlem, Mississippi and on Indian reser­vations in the U.S. this summer. They will also conduct two pro­jects in Mexico, one in Chile, one on St. Lucia Island and one in Peru. The council's volunteers will work on projects, compiled by the local CILA contact, that will improve the community. 

CILA is financed entirely by contributions and fund raising drives. Pais stressed that tomor­row night, in addition to helping to finance CILA projects, will be, the last chance to .see your favor-· ite graduating performers. • 
Fr. Berrigans play Sunday 
by Mike McCarry The Communiversitywill pre­sent a Reader's Theater version of Daniel Berrigan's new play, 
The Trial of the Catonsville 
Nine, at 8:30p.m., Sunday, May 24, in Washington Hall. 
The lines of the play are taken from the actual court record of the trial of the seven men and two women who entered the draft board office in Catonsville, Maryland in May of 1968, and 
destroyed the 1-A and !-A-Delinquent files. The defendants, who received sen t en c e s f u p
0 t 0 three-and-one-half years, were R D · 1 B · s J R
ev. ame erngan, .., ev. Ph'l' B · s s J B
liP erngan, ..., ro. David Darst, F.S.C., Mary Moy-Jan, Thomas Lewis, John Hogan, 


r-----------------------=----L-------------.--------------· 
H0 m e war d B0 u n d DOME 
Color Pictures at Bookstore




BUS SERVICE TO O'HARE 
Jewelry Counter-only view ofits kind. 

June 1 4:30PM 
June 2 4:30PM
All trips depart SMC Holy ReseiVations at Travel Bureau 
Cross Hall 15 minutes after (ground floor of Badin Hall)
June 3 12:30 PM
leaving NO Circle. 9:00-4:30 Daily. 
c·osT ss.oo The DAMNED 

with an international cast! A ~c." iu (I STliDENT l'NJON Starring Dirke Bogarde 
Thomas and Marjorie Melville, and George Mische. 
The play is directed by junior Communication Arts major Chuck Darst, who will portray his brother, the late David Darst. Admission is free. 

su exchange 

Next year, the Student Union will sponsor a book exchange. The exchange will last for a week at the beginning of each semester. It will involve only used books. The owner of the book will be allowed to deter­mine his own price. The purpose of the book exchange is to pro­
vide a central location for stu­
dents to buy and sell old books. A list of books will be published by the Student Union. All inter­ested are encouraged to save their books to turn in next year. Jim Pohl will be in charge of the operation. 
Michelle, I'm gonna miss you. 
I 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subsciptions may be ~urchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 

--~----.......-----­
THE Q&rEilfiDl. PAGE 3 




Senators defend activity fee cutback 
Senators Tom Mignanelli and Pat Weber defended the Senate cutback of activity fees and res­ponded to the statements made by Dave Krashna and Bob Pohl in yesterday's Observer. 
Mignanelli said the bill was intended to give back to the halls somewhere between I 0 and 15 per cent of the budget, which is about $12,000, or $2.00 per student. "The original plan was to give this money back to the halls anyway," he said; "either way it would not be put in the general Student Government fund." 
Mignanelli went on to say that the reasoning behind the Sen­ate's action was to benefit all st.udents. "The smaller halls need the money more than do the bigger halls, such as the towers, but, it would not be fair for the will have at least as much money 

slur to this and we co­said out office of com­to is­these this de­ CLASS of '71 Sign-ups for the Senior Class Trip to S. Cal. (Thanksgiving Weekend) Monday, May 25 6-8 pm Coke Bar of the Student Center $220 -$20 Deposit Required FOR THE UNIQUE IN SUMMER ENTERTAINMENT MAKE THE 2 NEW FLICKS EVERY WEDNESDAY For Titles Call 255 0697 afler 6p.m. FILMS RATED XX  
BOOK EXCHANGE NEXT YEAR  
take the collect the  AT THE BEGINNING OF NEXT SEMESTER THE STUDENT UNION WILL SPONSOR A USED BOOK EXCHANGE. IF YOU ARE INTERESTED, SAVE YOUR OLD BOOKS AND TURN THEM IN NEXT YEAR. YOU PICK YOUROWN PRICE. FOR MORE INFO CALL JIM POHL AT 1180.  
Notre  .•.A Service of the STUDENT UNION  
CLASS of '71 Applications 'are being accepted for lhe J)osltlons· of: Senior Class· Fellow Chairman Senior Week and· Senior Ball Chairman Graduation Chairman Please write (listing your qualifications): Class of '71  

Student participation discussed during organizational meeting 
by John Abowd 
About seventy people at­tended an organizational meet­ing of the Movement for a New Congress last night in O'Shaughnessy Hall. The attend­ants heard Mr. Edward Manier of the Philosophy Department and Mr. John Roos of the Govern­ment Department discuss the role of students in local campaign· ing. 
Manier, a McCarthy worker and precinct chairman in South Bend during the 1968 campaign, talked about the importance of canvassing and "grass roots" work. He said that canvassing was important in terms of in­fluencin_gthe voters and personal gain from discussing the issue with the people. 
Manier also stressed the need 
to  "get  the  vote  out"  in  an  
off-year  election.  He  said  that  
the  last  ninety  minutes  before  

the polls close "are the most crucial in terms of mobilizing the vote, especially for the pre­cinct aptain." Manier thought that students should be around during the final weeks of the election to phone voters and to do necessary last minute work. 
Roos, who will head the Notre Dame headquarters of the Movement for a New Congress, lectured on the importance of organization ill local campaigns, especially in the volunteer work. 
Roos suggested t,hat congres­sional camp<1igns in hometowns might be very disorganized in terms of volunteer work. He saw students of Grace and Flanner to have to pay for the activities of the smaller halls." Under this plan, Mignanelli contends, halls such as Howard and Sorin can charge a hall tax without any extra burden on the students, while the residents of the larger halls will not have to foot the bill for these halls. 
"Also," he centinued, "the off-campus student will not have to foot the bill for these halls; thus all students will benefit:" · 
Pat Weber agreed with Mig­nanelli's statements, adding that this money can now be used by the halls for their own smaller activities, and not be channeled through all of the Student Gov­ernment funds. He went on to say that Student Government could pay off the $25,000 debt ($20,000 past debt and $5,000 incurred during the ·McKenna Don Mooney, a student as the important role of students ordinator for the action,building an effective network of that students who join the con­workers that would function af-' gressional action by fillingter the students returned to the form in the Student Unionschool. 

Academic CommissionRoos thought that students will be informed by mailwould be useful in "distributing crucial campaigns in their area.
literature, taking polls and can­Over 600 students have vasses, organizing events, tele­pleted the form accordingph!Jning, and poll watching." 

Mooney. 

Communiversity to present 
by 'Marty Graham 

Mrs. Marice Neagu, one of the 
organizers of the program,Members of Notre Dame, 
stated, 'There will by no means 
Saint Mary's, Indiana Univer­
be a test given before the sity-South Bend, and the South 
suance of food because Bend Communities have begun 
people are subjected to to initiate an Open Pantry Pro­grading treatment enough times. 
gram which will supply the poor In doing away with the test, we 
of the area with free food sup­feel that those who will 
plies. 
advantage of the pantry will be 
To begin the planning of the only a small minority."

pantry during the summer, a Marty Graham, one of fund raising program is being initiators of the fund collection 
initiated at Notre Dame and at Notre Dame, stated, "We feel 
Saint Mary's. · 
that with the help of the student The collection is being run on 
body at both Notre Dame and a residence hall basis. Individuals 
Saint Mary's, we will interested in helping out are enough money to help carry the asked to contact either Tom 
initial program throughout Vanderputten or Marty Graham summer. We realize that the stu­in room-307 Breen Phillips, 283-dents have been bombarded with 1314. requests for money throughout 
the last few weeks, but the OpenThe Open Pantry Program Pantry Program will help to ini-­organizers plan on establishing it tiate the bond betweenin the South-West side of South Dame and the South Bend com­
Bend, possibly at Saint 
munity which the Communi­Augustine's Church. 
versity is striving for." 
WANTED 

GRADUATE STUDENT 
for year starting in June 1970 work with Local Community Data Gathering and Analysis 
for further information can 1'112 
URBAN STUDIES INSTITUTE 
administration) and still have $60,000 left, the same amount that was available this year. 
In response to the statements made by Krashna a!-.d Pohl crit­icizing the Senate for their ac­tion, Mignanelli said, "Krashna did not even bother to show up at either meeting where the bill was being discussed, and he did not research the matter before condemning the Senate." 
"I resent the statement made 
by Krashna saying that "there is 
seemingly something underneath 
all this," M.ignanelli continued. "I take it as a personal against myself and others." 
He said that in the committee meeting, the vote was l 0-1 cut back on the fee, and included both "liberal" "conservative" members of the Senate. "As it stands now, as this fall. The Observer prom­ised they wouldn't need any ' money for next year, then later said they might need $5,000. Now they are going completely back on what they said." 
He went on to say that the Student Union would not have to make any cutbacks in their appropriations for the CAF or SLF. "The arts will d not be hurt," he stressed. 

Responding to the charge that the Senate had not researched this issue, Mignanelli said that the entire Student Union fin­
ancial report was studied before the vote. He added that the $10,000 dollar surplus from the Social Commission was eaten up by the extra speakers procured b the Academic Commission. 
PAG_E 4 711B OBSEIHIDt FRIDAY, MAY22, 1970 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 

GAETANO M. De SAPIO, Publisher
DAVIO C. BACH, .Editor 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Glen Corsu 
Campus Opini.on 

A danger is entenng upon the American scene, one which to many is a telltale sign of the repression they claim is sure to come. In the _past few weeks we have witnessed the slaying of four students of Kent State, six blacks in Augusta, and a 30-year-old man and a high school student in Jackson Mississippi. 
The students at Kent were killed by National Guardsmen brought onto campus to quell disorders which rocked the campus. The six people in Augusta were shot in the back, by police, who had been called to quell a riot. The two men killed at Jackson State were shot 
by  Highway  Patrolmen  who  had  also  been  called  in  due  to  
disturbances on the campus.  
A ghastly specter is being raised in America  --the specter of  

legitimatized murder of our citizens, by those who designate to protect us. 
Previous incidents, such as the killing of Fred Hampton, were sloughed off as police gunned down criminals who had fired at them first-the classic picture of a western type shoot out, with the lawman being quicker on the draw. 
However, the facts that are coming out of Chicago indicate otherwise. Instead of a hail of bullets which the police reported, it turns out that there was only one bullet fired by the people inside the npartment. Yet, strangely enough, there were no arrests made. A man was killed, but no action was taken. While it is within the government's right to confiscate illegal caches of arms, and to arrest those responsible, they have no right to gun down people on the {!!'etext that it was a shoot out. 
The case at Jackson State is equally ludicrous. Police were called on campus because students were tossing rocks at passing automo­biles, admittedly a rather dangerous situation. Yet to respond by firing a fusillade of bullets at a women's dormitory is barbaric, even if there was sniper fire, as the police claimed. It makes one wonder if the Mississippi Highway Patrol is stocked with lunatics. It also makes one wonder what action will be taken against those offending officers. Will they be arrested and tried for homicide, or perhaps manslaughter? Probably not. If this had happened anywhere in Mississippi, or if the victims had not been black, then possibly some kind of action would have been taken. However, it won't. 
The case at Jackson State is equally ludicrous. Police were called on campus because students were tossing rocks at passing automobiles, admittedly a rather dangerous situation. Yet to respond by firing a fusillade of bullets at a women's dormitory is barbaric, even if there was sniper fire, as the police claimed. It makes one wonder if the Mississippi Highway Patrol is stocked with lunatics. It also makes one wonder what action will be taken against those offending officers. Will they be arrested and tried for homicide, or perhaps manslaughter? Probably not. If this had happened anywhere in Mississippi, or if the victims had not been black, then possibly acsome kind of action would have been taken. However, it won't 
The same is true of the slayings in Augusta, Georgia. There, six people were shot in the back by police. All six were black, supposedly involved in a riot. It seems inconceivable to suppose that a person was much of a threat if he was shot in back. The Governor of Georgia, Lestor Maddox, has promised to investigate the incident. What kind of justice can be expected from an avowed white supremacist? 
By no stretch of the imagination can anyone say that the officers in Jackson and Augusta were faced with such immediate danger that the>; eanicked and overreacted. Rather they used their weapons at the excuse of the slightest provo~;ation. It was clearly a callous and barbaric disregard for human life. 
One may be somewhat more charitable towards the guardsmen at Kent State. The television tapes of the incident show us little. Eyewitness reports vary. Some report that the guard wheeled about knelt down and fired in unison. A few others claim that if the guard had not fired they would have been killed by the students. Many simply admit that they don't know exactly what happened. _ 
No matter what occurred though, four innocent people are dead. The National Guard, whatever their excuse, were operating under standards that were more lax than those prescribed by the Federal government. The chilling thought that strikes many is that if they did not have their guns loaded before going into the disturbance, as prescribed by federal regulation, would they have fired so readily? 
With violence becoming a more and more common occurrence on the American scene every day it is evident that those whom we designate to uphold the law must be of the highest order. 
We share part of the blame for what police and guardsmen have done these past few weeks. There has not been enough emphasis on staffing these various enforcement agency with people of high quality. There has not been enough emphasis on proper training programs, designed to keep the enforcement officers from acting in an irrational manner when confronted by a difficult situation. 
The overwhelming majority of our police and guardsmen are not cruel and brutal sadists. Yet we have called upon them to do a job which they are not equipped to handle. We have not given them the support they need by demanding the dismissal of incompetents, nor the financial support for higher salaries. If the situation is allowed to remain static then we will soon find that those whom we expected to protect us will have turned upon us. 

"We are traveling a narrow path between inflation and recession and we do not intend to be diverted." 
Letters to the Editor 
Ominous parallels 
Editor: 

President Nixon's recent 
announcement that American 
and South Vietnamese troops 
would launch a "defensive 
reaction" against Communist 
forces in Cambodia has some 
ominous histoJ,"ical parallels. The 
following document, ordering 
the German "defensive reaction" 
against Russia in June 1 941 , 
after the failure of Germany's 
"reinforced protective reaction 
air strikes" against England, has 
some interesting and now all too 
familiar rhetorical tricks: 
Weighed down for many months by grave anxieties, com­pelled to keep silent, I can at last speak openly to you...About 160 Russian divisions are lined up along our frontier. For weeks this frontier has been violated continually-not only the fron­tier of Germany but also that in the far north and in Rumania. . 
At this moment, a buildup is in progress which has no equal in world history, either in e.xtent or in number. . .If this greatest front in world history is now going into action, then it does so not only to create the necessary conditions for the final conclu­sian of this great war, or to protect the countries threatened at this moment, but in order to save the whole of European civilization and culture. to save the whole of European civiliza­tion and culture. 
Adolph Hitler 

The campaign, Operation Bar­barossa, was expected to take 2 or 3 months at most-8 to 12 weeks. It lasted, instead, four years, and ended in the "Total Victory," not of Germany, but of the Allies. 
Nixon's rhetoric should de­ceive no one. The United States, which has been attacking South Vietnam, North Vietnam, and Laos for more than 5 years, has now invaded Cambodia in direct 
The column in yesterday's Campus Opinion was said to have been written in reaction to a column written by Professor James Massey. He did not write it It was written by Steve Massey. 
Sports Editor: Terry Shields Business Manager: Bruce Rieck Executive Editor: Dave Stauffer 
Night Editors: Patty Lipscomb Ad Mgr.: Bruce Barker 
and John Knorr Campus Editor: Glen Corso 
Layout Design: Mary Chris· News Editor: Steve Hoffman 
Morrison SMC News Editor: Jeanna 
Layout: Daniel V., John Abowd, Sweeney 
Patty Cervelli, Tom Blumer Assotiate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, 
Headlines: Bill Dues, Pat Geary_ Ann Conway Night Controllers: Joey & Amy & Features Editor: T.C. Treanor Tommy & Terry· 
and open violation of the Gene­
va Accords of I 954. This seem­ingly endless war is not ending­it is going to go on and on and on merely to satisfy the vanity of the present guardian of our "proud 190 year history" of "victories." Maybe the only honest response to Operational Total Victory No. 42-No. 42!-is utter despair. 
Howard Dooley 
Golden replies 
Editor: 
I was the individual who was quoted as a "strike leader" ·in the Observer article on the Jack­son State murders and rally. I am not a "strike leader" and I was out of town during the planning stages of the rally. In a private conversation to the indi­vidual who later reported this talk, I told of my experience at Moorhead State College in Min­nesota where last Thursday a rally was held over the Jackson State murders, attended by all the students at Moorhead State. I compared that rally to the pitiful turnout at Notre Dame and said that was a symptom of Notre Dame's racism. In the face of this sort of racism, Black nationalism is a necessity, es­pecially here at Notre Dame. I did not say the Black students boycotted because of their or­ganizing the rally. My own opin­ions of what mack students feel about Dave K¢"shna is irrelevant, but what I dill say was that Dave Krashna was operating as Stu­dent Body President. Black stu­dents are members of the Stu­dent Body and I did not imply Dave was not supporting their 
causes. Any implication of a division of goals and courses between Black students, Dave Krashna or anyone who has worked for the strike is erron­eous. 
Bill Golden 
•, 


" 

-
The Bitter End 
by T. C. Treanor 


, The View from the Tightening Noose 
7'unrlltK tmd tumi1rr In ~ widening gyre The falcon cannot hear the falconer; Things fall apart; the center cannot hold; Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world, The blood-dimmed tide is loosed, and 
everywhere The ceremony of innocence drowned; The best lack all conviction, while the 
worst Are full of passionate intensity. 
Surely some ,.EV.!lation is at hand; Surely the Second Coming is at hand. The Second Coming! Hardly are those 
words out When a vast image out a/Spiritus Mundi Troubles my sight: somewhere in the 
sands of the desert A shape with lion body and the head of a man, Is moving its slow thighs, while all about it Reel shadows of the indignant desert birds. The darkness dmps again; but now I 
know That twenty centuries of stony sleep Were vexed to nightmare by a rocking 
cradle, What rough f!east, its hour come round at last, , Slouches toward Bethlehem to be born? 
i:~t;, The secona Coming 
L. Emmet Ballantine, in his yet-to-be published anthology ,Take Her Off the Stage and Fornicate Her, tells this story: 
"Clifford Enile Maximillian Bigot the third was unique. He had to be. When he was born, his mother delivered him herself because nobody else was around. She always wanted a girl, and in the state of shock she was in, she named him Enily Maxine Bigot, and registered him as a girl. Now, nobody realized that he registered as a girl, because his mother soon forgot, until it was time for him to register for the draft. Then, he found that because he was registered as a girl, he was ineligible for the armed forces. So, the ass, he reregistered as a boy and took the name of 'Clifford Emile Maximillian Bigot. The Third.' 
"Ciifford!Emile Maximillian Bigot the Third is perhaps best remembered for his performance at an evening get-together in a Salvation Army Camp. We were all supposed to get up, introduce ourselves and say a few words about ourselves. Clifford Enile Maximillian Bigot the third got up and said: 
"'llowday. Ah'm Clifford Aymeel Max-e-mili-e-ion Bigot th' Thurd. Me 'n my friend, we hunt squirrels.' 
"Then almost as an afterthought, he added, to the girls there, 'Ah'rn real good. Yah'all oughta try me sometime.'" 
It was a hot night, and very, very still. 
it was chillingly quiet. 
It was vacuum-quiet under a space-black sky. 
There were no crickets. There were no insects of any kind. There were no nightibirds, or field-rats. 
Only the silent things of the night grew, and somewhere in the distance a woman silently screamed help me, help me and somewhere in the distance a nation silently screamed help me, help 
me. 
And there was a fire escape. And on the fire escape four men urinated at the impotent ground. They laughed. 
The moon rose, and as it did they blasphemed the silence with prayer of hate, louder and louder. But their voices did not exho, rather? they fell dead aJZainst the night. 
The fire escape swayed and staggered with them, but still the night was quiet. Yet other voices joined with tne dead ones from the fire escape, causing the 
latter  to  stop  from  their  eternal htstory was Mussolini, for only Mussolini  
obscenity.  could  help  him  now.  But  Mussolini  
"Wazzit?" said one voice.  turned a cold voice towards him.  

"Sounds like a parade." said another. "You will find no sympathy from me. "A parade? What'n Hell's a goddam Know you not what I have said 'For parade here for?'' Fascism the Unity is an absolute before As if it were one being, the parade which individuals. · . are relative. Indivi­
·the Morris Inn, dreaming dreams of crab­
grass and weedkiller. 
It was Prom Weekend, and little girls were softly asleep, dreaming dreams of corsages and white dresses. 
It was a warm weekend, and little boys were softly asleep, dreaming dreams of shifting sands and cool waters. 
All were asleep, save the few, perhaps, the woman silently screaming, help me help me, and thousands of miles to the west, the nation silently. screaming, help me help me. 
And the one, standing in the shadows; 
who saw the parade and stepped back sick and sorrowful (Chris Wuff? Richard Blunter? I do not know. God knows.) Frightened and nauseous, he ran and ran, until, not knowing where he was, he gazed fullface into the eyes of confused and haunted (is it legal to call him confused and haunted? or must we care­fully damn him as a one-dimensional monster) Mussolini. 
He gazed at Mussolini, eyes pleading, eyes hurting, remembering the long pa­r~de, and at the moment his only hero in burst into view all at once, centipede­like, long forever-long; loud, loud, forever loud; so loud that it broke the silent night, it rent it into two peices; so loud that it echoled on and on and lived. 
And the parade cursed the Moon and the Golden Dome in the Night, and the leper-yellow clock in the steeple of the Church. And, trance-like, the four climbed down from their lone fire escape and trance-like, followed the parade. ' 
And from frim escapes everywhere, lone cursers of the night climbed down to join the long parade. 
The parade swelled and swelled; hand 
holding people in an ecstacy of unity. Thye cursed the darkness and the cadre in front sang their own light. 
Left fist clenched and raised first· 
then, two v-like fingers; then, a ~trang~ handclasp; as new as Hayden, as old as Prometheus. 
It rained and thundered; but the long 
p~ade hardly cared; the long parade 
hadly noticed. 
They stopped somewhere outside the 
boundaries of the Campus to declare 
themselves, and the inside was once more 
silent. 
Everyone was sleeping. 
And the parade 


made him King.
cursed the Moon, 
"Okay," he resp­
and the Golden Do­
onded, alternately 
me in the Night,and 
bowing and smiling, 
the leper-yellow cl­
and the cloud bell­
ock in the steeple of 
owed and sang. Be­
the Church. And, 
neath it, the long pa­
trance-like, the four 
rade sat in the mud, 1 
climbed down from 
the people uncaring. 
their lone fire escape 
They had each oth­
and~ trance :-like, 
er; it had itself. 
followed the parade. 
And from the di­
And from fire 
stances came other 
escapes everywhere 
long parades; each 
lone cursers of the 
night climbed down to join the long par­ade. 
The parade swelled and swelled; hand holding people in an ecstasy of unity. They cursed the darkness, and the cadre in front sang their own light. 
Left fist clenched and raised first· then, two v-like fingers; then, a ~trang~ handclasp; as new as Hayden, as old as Prometheus. 
It rained and thundered; but the long parade hardly cared; the long parade hardly noticed. 
They stopped somewhere outside the boundaries of the Campus to declare themselves, and the inside was once more silent. 
Everyone was sleeping. It was Junior Parents' Weekend, and the Junior Parents were softly asleep in 
aua.ts are ··tnmKat>le·· m so tar as they are within the unity... Political doctrines pass; people remain.' 
"We called for the same thing; peoples must be together; thinking alike, speaking alike, acting alike. The individual identity must be subservient to the identity of the group. 
"It is this way more effective." 
And he screamed, and blindly ran, out past the Mussolini who betrayed him, out, out past the engineering hall, home of agnostic fascists, out, past the boun­daries of the campus, crying for strength. 
The full moon was out. 
But it was a friendly moon, a potent moon beaconing in the night; high and joyous in its amplification of the snap­ping and alive noises below. 
And there were noises below, now helped, not hindered, by the hand of nature and nature's god. A heavy, musky, strange-smelling cloud hovered overhead; the product of the joy, and the cause of it. 
From the clouds and the crowd stepped a boxer. Lithe and small was he; his hands laced up in the familiar graces. He took two swings at the_ a!r, felled an 
imaginary foe. They 
one seperate and the same, converg ­
ing with the first until they became one. 
Then, from this huge new animal came 
the kings, each the King of his own long 
parade; the boxer; and from others, the 
rich man, the caretaker, and the mortic­
ian. And from the Kings came one king, 
and he turned and spoke to the longest 
parade. 
"Power to the people!" he screamed 
with his last voice. 
The crowd resounded, turned into one 
long piece of electricity and then fell 
back, satiated yet expectant. 
"W~ are the people," in a scream of 
nihilistic joy' and the crowd turned elec-­
tric again and flowed and crackled and 
merged, and then sat back, exhausted yet 
pleading. 
"We are the Woodstock Nation," said 
the cracked dry scream again; and the 
now electric crowd cracked and buzzed 
for an hour. 
It was at this time the man who had 
begged of Mussolini-Chris Wuff? Rich 
Blunter? I do not know. God knows.­
happened across the long parade together 
and instantly he perceived what had E_appened. 
"Stop! You are free men! Men,...lf you burn together I shall put you out.'' 
And the electricity slowed, became static, and long the parade became men once more; slowed, enraged, and ominous as they confronted their accuser. 
From the buzzing crowd stepped a young man with the accent of harsh New England Winters. 

"If you are an Orthodox Catholic, if yo~ are an Orthodox Christian, you must beheve that the Lord told you how to live; how to die; how to eat; how to Jove; how to fight for whafyou -believe in...'' 
"No. I determine that for myself in the dignity of my own soul..." 
"This you cannot do. This is not a just means. You cannot put us out. It is written in the documents of Vatican two. I can quote chapter and verse ... " 
"Just means? How is it defined? Why is it that way?" 
Slowly. "They speak for the Lord.'' 
"What are their reasons? Let them 

defend those reasons." ·Slower again. "They speak for the Lord.'' 
Near hysteria. "I speak for myself! I am a free man; drawn from the greatest lines of reality and rationality!" 
"We speak for the Lord," said the crowd, and the young man faded back and away, and the boxer stepped forth. 
"Okay," he said, "now, we are the Woodstock Nation. This means that we have left your technocracy, ~th all its pollution, physical and mental, and founded our own unity, without the war, without competition, without thought. We have found something greater than thought. It is love. We need not think amore, for in love we haYe created a new reality. And we shall win. We shall burn you, and re-educate yo•J, and fit you into our new reality. And you shall be merged." 
Quietly, now. Last chance, now. "Without freedom you may live, but what you live will be a lie. No one will dissent; without dissent no one will think· without thought on one will progress: You will be alive, but you ~ould be better off dead.'' 
But the Woodstock Nation merged once more, willingly this time, unled, unstructured; electricity alive and crack­ling against the night. And it moved, and it marched, campus to campus, and on one, the church steeple swayed and the Golden Dome danced, for a different fiddler set the rhythm for the music this time around; and the campus echoed and resounded en the c·ommand of the long parade. 
It was morning, now, the last morning of Junior Parent's weekend, and the matrons and the patrons prepared to go home. 
"It was so good to see you, Mrs. Mordogast." "Sacred Heart Church looks so fine this time of year." "The Golden Dome still does some­thing to you, doesn't it?" "Do ya' think we'll be able to win without McCoy next year?" 
It was a beautiful day, squirrels run­ning in their appointed places, wind blowing at its appointed speed, birds singing their appointed songs. And if the· little children at t..;otre Dame seemed somewhat preoccupied, was it not only because of the exciting life they led here? 
!3ut no more life was to be led. It was· only to be followed on the bright May day that brought the Junior Parent's home. For the time was here; it was too long and hard to think anymore. But cry and laugh and respond together; that they could do. 
Except for Oifford Emile Maximillian Bigot the third, high in his fire escape; whose feeble mind was at least his own ... 
A good couple (Mr. and Mrs. Wuff? Mr. and Mrs. Blunter? I do not know. God· knows.) were preparing to leave, when they and others saw in the sky a sign. 
In huge red letters, "I have seen the 
future and it stinks," signed by Steve's Link-urns; but Steve, who runs a sausage -~tore, probably never went to college, so nobody listened to him, knowing full well that all the best minds come from college and they're the ones that should b~ listened to. 
And the good couple left the university, she saying, "I do think that wonderful Father Hesburgh is so right about community," he saying, "yes, in­deed," and as they did so they passed the old cemetary on the way to thirty-one, and in the back their little girl swore she saw a new grave with brand new flowers on it, but they didn't notice and thus drove all the way home without saying anything ... 
Crazy Ed Ellis reads this over a can of Bud. "T.C.," he says, "you're profoun­der'n Hell.'' 
I drink my beer, and respond carefully. "Yes," I say, "I am indeed profounder than is Hell." 

NOTICE 


Nixon predicts budget 

WASHINGTON (UPI) -Presi-icies would then allow more
Any Student intending to move Off-Campus next year 
dent Nixon told the chairman of credit nad lower interest rates.
should pick up a bulletin of information fr.om the Off­
the New York Stock Exhange and predicted his budget policies 
Campus Office in the basement of LaFortune. 
yesterday that he expected an would then allow more credit upturn in the nation's economy and lower interest rates. during the last half of the year, The President invited Bernard 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~an=d~P~.r~e=~~·c~h~d~h=is~b~u~d:p~t~p~o~~~· La*m~theWhHeHou~adzy 
ATTENTION ALL 
SOPHOMORES 
Sophomores may sfarf placing ring orders NOW 
.'Hours: 1:30-4:30 Monday Thru Friday 
I 

in office on second f1oor of ND Bookstore 
Wf.-\Ai DO You THINK MV CHANeES ARE oF REACHING Hot.t.VwooDf 

~--------~~-~ 
YouR CHANCtS ARE. I E~C E.Lt.E:-NT, VALER \EI~. IF You DIAL 1 AND 
AREA CODE. z-, 3.
-

Get outta town without leaving campus. Dial Direct. The lowest long distance rates are in effect every school night and all day Saturdays. 

@ Indiana Bell 

Use your long distance calling number. Save time. Dial your own calls. 
after the the administration re­ported the rise in cost of living increased during April and after the stock market fell to its lo­west point in seven years. 
White House Press Secretary Ronald Ziegler said Nixon, during his 40 minute meeting with Lasker, expressed confi­dence that the "economy will continue to turn up in the last half of this year and that the tight restraints on the budget this administration pursues will allow an expansionist monetary policy." 
Ziegler said the meeting, which included Paul McCracken, chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisors, dealt with the economy in gene­
,IP IT HOM AIR FREIGHT 
May 26th through June 3rd 
' 

You Can Ship 
Collect 
Detaih·d room flyers w iiJ be pa~~ed out Ia t n. 
ral and the stock market in particular. 
Nixon was quoted as expres­sing the importance he attaches to a vigorous stock market and his confidence that the economy would recover from what Senate Democratic Leader Mike Mans­field yestelfday termed a reces­sion. 
Mansfield cited increasing un­employment, high interest rates and continuing inflation and said, "My belief is we are in a recession at the present time if we recognize it or not." 
He said he had suggested to "several presidents" that they consider stand by wage, price and profit controls and larger down payments in credit buying. "But the words have been wasted," Mansfield said . "There is no indication the Presi­dent is thinking about it." 
An economist's "rule of thumb" is that the nation is in a recession when its output of goods and services declines for two successive quarters. This oc­curred in the last quarter of 1969 and the first quarter of 1970. 
SEATO history 
(continued from page 1) 
Miss Cassidy stated that "the 
major, perhaps only, concern of 
the United States has been the 
containment of communism." 
This was reflected by the forma­
tion of SEATO shortly after the 
Geneva agreements. Miss Cassidy 
believes that the weaknesses of 
the American policy have led to 
the current situation. 
The American view of the 
situation has been unrealistic 
according to Miss Cassidy: 
"These people have been fight­
ing since World War II," she said. 
"To think the North Vietnamest: 
will immediately capitulate at 
the conference table as a result 
of American escalation is ter­
ribly, terribly naive." 
NOW 
SHOWING 



thru 

26th 

PROO_F OF AGE REQUIRED 
• 


~--­







Graduation plans set 
Sidney de Shazo Callahan wtll be the speaker for St. Mary's 123rd annual Commencement, June 6, it was announced by Msgr. John J. McGrath, presi­dent of the College. Two hun­dred sixty-two bachelor's de­grees will be conferred during ceremonies beginning att3 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditoriumvl 
Receiving the honorary Doc­tor of Letters will be Mrs. Calla­han and Mother M. Olivette Whalen, C.S.C., Superior General of the Sisters of the Holy Cross and Chairman of the Board of Trustees of St. Mary's College. 
Valedictorian for the Class of 1970 is Miss Joann Yandow of Burlington, Vermont. A socio­logy major, she was elected to Kappa Gamma Pi, the national Catholic college women's honor society. 
The traditional Baccalaureate Mass will be concelcbrated at I 0 
a.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium with Reverend Raymond E. Runde, assistant professor of ed-
History supplement courses announced 
The History department of St. Mary's College is introducing a series of new courses intended to supplement regular courses offered in European history. The first of these new courses to be offered will involve travel in Great Britain and Ireland with emphasis upon the historical and geographical background. At present a trip ·of about three weeks duration is planned for the period during the break be­tween the first and second se­mesters of the coming 1970-71 
academic year. The trip itself will be preceeded by a series of background lectures and meet­ings on British and Irish history. 
The itinerary, although at this moment somewhat flexible, will begin with a visit to Canterbury where the 800th anniversary of the martyrdom of Thomas a Becket will be commemorated on December 29, 1970. Chau­cer's Canterbury will also be visited and discussed. In London the student will visit the House 
of Commons and the House of Lords, the Royal Courts, West­minster Abbey and Cathedral St. Paul's, Windsor and llam~ pden Court, the Tower, London University, the National and Tate Galleries, the Dickens Cen­tennial Exhibits, the British Mu­seum and the Public Record's Office Museum, as well as num­erous other points of historical and literary interest. Travel else­where in England will include visits to Oxford and Cambridge, Stratford-on-Avon, the indus­trial Midlands, and the major Medieval Cathedrals. In Scotland 
Edinburgh and Glasgow will be visited as well as the southern Highlands. Points of interest to be visited in Wales will include Carnaevon, where Prince Charles recently received his title, Prince of Wales. 
In Ireland, Dublin will be the focal point of interest with side-trips planned to various points of historical interest a­bout the countryside. Time will be spent at Trinity and Universi­ty College in Dublin. A trip to Belfast· and Northern Ireland should enable the student to gain some on-the-spot insights into the historical realities of the 
problems faced by this troubled land. ln general every effort will be 
ucalion at St. Mary's, delivering the traditional Baccalaureate Ad­dress. 
Sidney Callahan is best known for her writings on the problem of the educated women's role in the contemporary world and her efforts to create a synthests of Christian values anti modern in­sights. A weekly columnists for the National Catholic Reporter, 

Newcommissionformed to oversee Festivals 
The previously independent ~ophomore Literary Festival, Cbhltemporary Arts Festival, and the Cinema Series have been federated under the newly cre­ated Cultural Arts Commission. According to Bob Pohl, Student Union Director, "the primary benefits of this move will be that these groups will now be able to work together, with all conflicts eliminated". 
The new Commission under 
made to bring the student into contact with the cultural life of the area being visited. The thea­ter, for example, in Strat-ford-on-Avon, London and Dublin will play an important part in the planned activities. Wherever possible the student will also be brought into contact 
Great Britain and Ireland. Part 
of this latter program, hopefully, 
will be worked out in conjunc­
tion with the University of 
Notre Dame's Law School pro­
gram in London. 
Two college credits ordinarily will be granted to the student participants in the program. If the student elects to do a re­search paper, an additional cre­dit may be earned. Exact details on the cost of the program will be available in the fall. For further information contact Prof. A.R. Black in 346 Made­leva Hall, or phone 284-4948. 
MH drive starts 
This weekend and early next week, students will be canvassing door-door on campus to sollicit funds and membe~hips for the Mental Health Association of St. Joseph's County. Please join with us in contributing to this worthwhile organization and at the same time in bettering rela­tions between Notre Dame and neighboring communities. 
Envelopes will be left at all rooms. If occupant is not in, please insert contribution of $1.00 or more and bring to room 617 Flanner or 218 Dillon, or to Strike Headquarte~ in LaFortune Student Center. For further informatimn call Gregg 1687 or Frdnk 1103. 

LAST CHANCE TO DISCOVER AMERICA THIS YEAR! 
Sat. N ite 8:30 -I :00 only 75C A dms.
APPEARING JIM MORAN PAUL GUERNSEY MIKE McCOOL JANUARY RAIN STEVE BRION AND MORE' 
Come Have a Good Time and 
CILA Summer 

Mrs. Callahan is also the author of a number of books including 
The Illusion of Hve: Modern Woman sQuest fur Identity and Beyond Birth Control.· The Christian Hxpcrie nee u f Sex. 
A magna cum laude graduate of Bryn Mawr College, she is the wife of Commonweal editor Daniel Callahan. They are the parents of six children. 
RIVER PARK
...................... 
MISHAWAKA AVE, AT jQTH. 
NOW SHOWING 
It's a switched-on laugh riot! 
HELD OVER 
ANTONIONI's 
r.u m a.m.a 
iU.JnliUiIUtll 
~EU71'1r.DJ 
•n•ln~llllii 
~~aDDr.m 
II~'~U~I' II lUll II 
Open Daily 6:30 


CILA BENEFIT 
Showings All Night 




INEMA BIZARR 
PRESENTS 

STUDENT F.ILMS 
DAVE RILEY AN TOSTAL 
JOHN O'REILLY TOM REIS HMPPH 
JIM KARSON SIMPLE GAME 
TOM EHRBAR MECHANICAL 
TOM HEINAN BRIDE CRITTERSVILLE
JOHN WOLL FANTASIA 
AND WORKS BY PAUL WADDY, DOUG ALLAIRE, JIM GABRIEL, LEN SWOYER, DOMINIC LACOVAR~, AND JOHN STUPP 
FIELDHOUSE 8:00 P.M. AY MAY 2 

Irish face tougher foes· 

by Terry Shields Tom Riker-South Carolina, Jar­finished fifth in the nation in ret Durham-Duquesne, Greg team offense with a 93.5 aver­
Observer Sports Editor e:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::::~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::. Worthy of a Bid
Jackson-Illinois, and Cyril Bap­age. The Irish had a sharpshoot­If you think last year's sched­tiste-Creight<>n. Of course what One can use a lot of cliches to summarize the Notre Dame
ing average of 48.2%, good for
ule-was tough you ain't seen baseball season and probably all of them would fit. They couldn't
16th nationally.
schedule would be complete

nothing yet. Not only do Austin get any momentum going. The pitchers needed work. Some key
DECEMBER
with all-sophomore

Carr and Co. take on the tough­an entire Tues. 1 Michigan Away hitters had early season slumps. The list could go on and on.
squad to back up the All-Ameri­

est of the tough once again (with Sat. 5 South Carolina Home Something that might be said to capture the picture more
cans'? ND has to watch these Thurs. 10 Northwestern c.s.
many of these played away this Away correctly is that they refused to give up. After being down to a 1-10
Sat. 12 St. Louis
yearlings: George McGinnis of

season) they have added a few Tues. 15 Indiana Home record in April the Irish got things together against Western Micl'igan 
Indiana, Tom Payne of Ken­Tues. 2g Kentucky LV
more powers such as South Car­and from there it was a great college ball club. The final record of 16
Thurs. 31 Santa Clara H"Jme
tucky, Tim Chones of Marquette

olina and LaSalle. wins against 12 defeats serves testimony for this fact. Johnny Dee, who set the sche­Mel Davis-St. John's, Kevu; JANUARY Coach Clarence J. "Jake" Kline expressed it best. "Why sure I'm
Joyce-South Carolina, Nick Sat. 2 Minnesota Home
dule for these years, says that we Sat. g Air Force Away pleased with this team. I'd be crazy if I wasn't." Kline was
Weatherspoon-Illinois, Nick

want to play the best competi­Mon. 11 Marquette Away worried that he thought about retirement when the record was way
Connors-Illinois, Jim Brewer­Sat. 16 Villanova Away
tion possible. Coach Dee is not Mon. 18 Duquesne Away down below .500. Jake changed his mind about retirement however 
Minnesota, Henry Wilmore­

exaggerating. Other coaches have Sat. 23 U.C.L.A. Home 011<:<e the team started winning. ' 
Michigan, and Jesse Leonard-St. Tues. 26 Michigan State Home
referred to the schedule as Kline had some definite -reasons why the squad got off to such a
sat. 30 Illinois c.s."crazy" among other things. horrible first half. "We faced bad spring weather here before Easter Louis. 
Harry DeVoid, a writer for FEBRUARY
Nonetheless the Irish will em­and the pitchers didn't work outside at alL We travel to Florida and 
Basketball News, has already Wed. 3 Detriot Home
bark on the long road to the Sat. 6 Creighton* Home the first day we're there we play a doubleheader in 85 degree heat.
composed a Top Thirty for next

NCAA's at Michigan on Decem­Mon. 8 Butler Home That's asking too much of a team." Kline added to this that "most 
season and Notre Dame faces Sat. 13 DePaul Away
ber I. It gets.progressively hard­Mon. 15 Valparaiso Home of the teams we faced had already had a few weeks of competition
no less than seven of these

er from there. Thurs. 18 Fordham M.S.G. 
and _they were all ready for us. Then when we headed north our game
teams. Sat. 20 west Virginia Away
Here are a few of the points Tues. 23 N.Y.U. Home agamst Ball State was played in freezing temperatures."
To finish up with last season

of interest about next year's Sat. 27 St. John's Away K~ne then commented on how the team got going. "Well, you
there are a few little notes that MARCH

agenda. ND plays the favorite in see, It was spring and with all of this protest going on around the
Mon. 1 Dayton Homethe Pacific Eight (UCLA), the Thurs. 4 western Mich. Home country the boys thought that they would have a little orotest of Atlantic Coast Conference their own. They went to strike so to speak." Strike the Irish did. (South Carolina), the Southeast After the terrible beginning the team put together a record of 15-2. 
prove interesting. Notre Dame 

Final statistics
Conference (Kentucky), the Big This is impressive enough to get the attention of the NCAA selection Ten Conference (Illinois), . and committee. According to Kline the decision should be known by
PLAYER AB H RBI HR AVG
the Western Collegiate Confer­Sunday night. 
4 0
Joe LaRocca 5 2 .800 
ence (Santa Clara). 
Joe Theismann 19 7 3 0 .368 Not only Kline had a comment on the season. Bill Orga, the seniorSeven of next season's oppon­first-sacker, probably epitomized the season more than any otherBob Roemer 27 9 5 0 .333
ents won over twenty games. 
player. After a tremendous season in his junior year when he hit
Jim Phelps 9 3 I 0 .333
These teams include UCLA nearly .500 (that's right five hundred), Orga got off to a season thatBill Schmidt 3 1 0 0 .333
(28-2), Marquette (26-3), Ken­
contained an oh-for-thirty slump. When Orga got things in gear soJoe Keenan 86 27 10 1 .314
tucky (25-3), South Carolina did the Irish. Although he hit only .255, he tied Phil Krill for the
Chuck Horan 80 25 26 2 .313
(24-3), Santa Clara (23-6), Villa­club leadership in runs batted in with 20. 
Rob Voitier 121 35 10 1 .289
nova (20-7) and St. John's Orga felt that the trouble with the Irish at the beginning of the
Phil Krill 96 27 20 4 .281
(20"9). 
season was mainly in the pitching staff. "Most of our hitters were
Rich Lucke 95 26 18 3 .274
Eight Irish foes went on to coming through but the pitching just wouldn't hold. When the losing
Tom O'Connor 49 13 3 0 .265
participate in post season tour­kept up, we started to press. We knew we were better but we lost a
Bill Orga 94 24 20 I .255
naments. UCLA, Kentucky, couple of heartbreakers." 
Santa Clara, Dayton and Villa­Micky Karkut 29 7 3 0 .241 
Orga, Joe Keenan, and Rich Lucke are all graduating seniors who 
nova were entered in the NCAA. Nick Scarpelli 119 28 15 0 .235 
have shown some promise. Scouts have watched each perform butDenny Patrylo 14 3 0 0 .214
Marquette, Duquesne and St. 
Kline feels that they all need more experience before they could 
John's played in the NIT. Ron Schmitz 29 6 4 0 .207 
tum pro. But like Orga says, "I would play pro ball for
Bob Jaeger 5 1 0 0 .200
Besides tremendous teams the gum-wrappers if I ever got the chance."
Bill Schoen 13 I 0 0 .077
list of opposing players would Ron Schmitz as the workhorse of the pitching staff this season 
compose a bonafide All-America Joe McCarthy 14 I 0 0 .071 
and the junior right-hander will return to bolster the mound corps.
Nick O'Connor I 0 0 0 .000
squad. Among these are John He agreed with Bill Orga. "The entire pitching staff had very littleJerry Fenzel 3 0 0 0 .000
Roche of South Carolina, Sidney work before the spring trip. I only worked outside once before going 
Rick Eich 7 0 0 0 .000
Wicks-UCLA, Howard Porter­to Florida. Once the pitching did come around we got someJohn Gardner 1 0 0 0 .000
Villanova, Ralph Simpson­
momentum."

Terry Mackprang 2 0 0 0 .000
MSU, Dean Memminger-Mar­Coach Kline feels that the ball club could improve next year butDanny Curran 0 0 0 0 .000
quette, Curtis Rowe-UCLA, he is still a little unsure of the future. It seems that baseball was being considered as a sport that might be dropped. Kline feels that the effort that the team put out this year will strengthen his
Pre-Summer 
argument to keep the national pasttime at NO. 
Kline says that some members of the "B" squad could provide replacements for the graduating seniors. Joe Theisma.nn could play a full season next year since there will be no spring football practice 
for him. 

But like Kline said, "I couldn't be more happy with these boys. They showed a Jot of pride. Any season over .500 is a winning one. They're still in there." 
QUALITY 

SALE 

of famous make 



MAJOR LEAGUES 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East 
East w L Pet. GB
SUITS, SPORTCOATS ---­
w L Pet. GB 
Chicago 18 

16 .529 *Baltimore 25 12 .676
ALL-WEATHER COATS New York 19 18 .514 y, York
New 21 18 .538 5 St. Louis 18 18 
.500 *Detroit 17 17 .500 6% 

at savings of 'Pittsburgh 18 21 .462 2% Boston 16 19 .457 8 Philadelphia 15 23 .395 5 Washington-16 21 .435 9 *Montreal 14 22 .389 5 Cleveland 13 20 .390 10 
1/4 ITm 1/3 
West West 
Cincinnati 29 11 .725 Minnesota 25 10 .714The savings are here ... NOW! Stop in, stock up California 25 13 .658
*Los Ang. 22 16 .579 6 1Y:. 
your hot weather needs and save as much as '"'"-I'''" I B/:0:}}:}}:}:~ 
*Atlanta 21 16 .568 6% Oakland 18 20 .474 8% 
Use your account...no interest or carrying -iouston 19 22 .463 10% Chicago 16 21 .432 10 
added. :an Fran. 18 22 .450 11 Milwaukee 13 23 .361 12% ~an Diego 18 24 .429 12 Kansas City 13 
24 .351 13 

Philadelphia 4 St. Louis 3 
Cleveland 10 Boston 7 Cincinnati 2 Houston 0 
New York 2 Washington 0 Montreal 6 Pittsburgh 6, 9th inn. 
Detroit 6 Baltimore 4 Atlanta at Los Angeles, night game not included
*Second 

*Night game not inclurlP.r:l 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 





