
Serving the Notre /)a me a11J Saint Mary's College ('onmumitt• THURSDAY, MAY 21, 1970
VOL. IV,No. 134 
Students back amendment 3 to I 
hy Charlie Myers •
rni tted ballot boxes to be tallied. live means" of letting student of referendum.
result the Mr. iasm that the measure enjoyed 
Notre Dame students voted Due to the failure of many halls opinion be made known. Williams said that he was very on campus."three-to-one in favor of the pro­to return tally sheets, and in two pleased with the effort and
A group of students in the
posed McGovern-Hatfield bill in instances, lack of hall names on "Seriously," he added, "I
hopes that it will re11ect the
strike headquarters had varied
yesterday's campuswide referen­the boxes, only fifteen halls voting in the Senate. think that the small number of
opinions on the outcome of the
dum. Koughly one-third of the could be identified. Sarin and students who voted shows that
referendum. One man was un­The resufts of the referendum
student body expressed their Lyons failed to pick up their many students regarded the
impressed by student turnout, will b~ sent to Harvard on Tues­
opinion in the referendum, with boxes for the referendum. whole effort as an exercise in
another noted that the results day of next week. Notre Dame
1446 voting for the bill and 472 Joe Ilutz, campus coordinator futility. I seriously doubt if the
were "just about what we ex­
will also forward results from
against, making a total of 191 R for the referendum, felt that minds of many senators will he
pected." The final man talked to the other Indiana universities 
votes cast. student efforts such as this are a :>wayed by the total number of
felt the turr.out should have which participated in this refer­
The McGovern-Hatfield bill good start in the right diredion ~tes the measure receives on
been better-"The results are 
endum. 
proposes a complete cutback of for making student opinion college campuses. 
going to affect our lives," he
known. Sophomore Glen Corso com­
appropriations for Southeast mused. 
Jllented "The predominant sentimentAsia after December 3 I, 1970, "The re fe rend um," said "I think that the num­
with complete troop withdraw­llol tz, "may show that student ProFessor John Williams was ber of people who cast votes for on campus is liberal, at least als by June 30th of next year. power can be used as an effect­contacted by The Observer and the majority position is evidence among the most vocal students, and most people recognize that
This differs from the Cooper­ive type of lobby...there are asked for his reaction to the of the amount of zealous enthus-fact and accept it. In fact I thinkChurch proposal, also pen ding many potential voters in coll­that many people arc turned offbefore Congress, which calls for ege." 
by the activities of college stu­a wmplele cutoff of funds for Steve Atzart'lli was unsure evidenced fact
Cam bollia after June 30, 1970. exactly how much concrete ef­
dents, as by the 
that the staggering amount ofSeventeen of the University's fect the referendum would have, 58% of the people in this coun­twenty one residence halls sub-but he said that it was a "posi-try felt the deaths of the four students at Kent State were the 
fault of the demonstrating stu­dents." 
Parties comment 
When Tom Murphy was con­
on rally for blacks 
tacted last night for his com­ments, he indicated that he wasControversy raged yesterday spent over I\12 hours explaining not surpised at the outcome.
over an Observer news article the reason why they would hot "It's a fine idea," he said, "aswhich appeared yesterday and participate in the rally to the are many proposals. But in prac­related circumstances that took Strike Committee. 
tice I see a great deal of difficul­place during a rally on Tuesday The statement by the Strike ty." He went on to explain his
which commemorated the Committee elaborated on this 
point by saying that he does notdeaths of two black students at point: "The article claims this sec the difficulty so much in theJackson State lJn ivcrsity. individual felt 'the blacks boy­particular situation, but in theStudent Body Presisident cot ted the rally'-Whether he future where he thinks it mightDave Krashna, Afro-American said it or not, the impression well tie the hands of the Presi­Society President Ernie Jackson, given is that since he was a dent.
the Strike Agenda Committee Notre Dame students voted yesterday by more than a three to one 
and student Bill (;olden who was (continued on page 6) margin in support of the McGo,em-Hatfield amendment quotcd in the article, all issued stall~ments in an attempt to clar­ify the situation. · 
Yesterday's article pointed 

SLC to admit grad students, 
out that no black students atten­ded the rally organized to pro­test the shooting of the two 
recommends study of security
Jackson State students last 
week. By Shawn Hill stration. It was found that an Various other mem hers of the membcr Ted Jones. Jones pro­The story also stated that a The SLC met again yesterday examination of campus security SLC pointed to the increasing posed that the SLC be composed "strike leader" felt that the rea­afternoon, after having failed to by an outside body would cost vandalism, thefts, and assaults of three students from the gn•d­
son why no blacks attended the reach a quorum Monday, and an estimated $6000. The Ad­on campus as evidence that the uate and professional schools, rally was that they (the blacks) again recommended that a study ministration felt that the results Security Department is in need nine undergraduates, six mem­did not organize it. lie was also of the campus security force be would not justify the cost and so of improvement. They felt that a bers of the faculty, and six 
quotcd as saying that the blacks conducted and decided to en­submitted the recommendation detailed study by an outside members of the administration. were "hung up in the Black large the membership of the to the SLC for re-examination. body is the first step to achieve After caucus and moderate de­Nationalist hag," and that they SLC. In debate on the recommend­this improvement. bate his proposal was defeated. were angry with Student Body The SLC's recommendation ation, Fr. James Riehle, Dean of The SLC then voted whether The next proposal to be re­President Dave Krashna for not concerning the security depart­Students, felt that the SLC or not to repass the recommend­viewed was an amendment to Mr. 
giving much support to black ment was originally passed last should not repass the recom­ation and the recommendation Jones's proposal initiated by Fr. causes. January. The resolution reads as mendation. He said that the cost was passed on an 8 to 5 vote. Maurice Amen. This proposalJackson and the 'Strike Com­was prohibitive, that nothing
follows: The SLC next dealt with vari­called for three members from mittee both commented on why "The Student Life Coundl new could be learned from such 
ous motions to change the mem­the graduate and professionalthe blacks did not participate in recommends that the t6niversity a study, and that many improve­bership of the SLC. It was debat­
schools, seven undergraduatethe rally. bring to the campus a qualified ments in security have taken ed whether or not to admit 
mem hers, seven faculty members,
Jackson said, "Black students consultant in the field of campus place since the recommendation graduate students to the SLC, and seven administration mem­don't have time for speeches, security for the purpose of per­was originally passed. and the council decided that bers. This proposal was likewise they don't have time for teach­forming a full study of the Se­He stated that the main prob­grad students should be repre­defeated after debate. ins or the other rhetoric that curity Department of the Uni· lem facing campus security is a sented. The final m·otion proposed goes on. When we are dealing versity. Moreover, the report lack of trust and cooperation on The first proposal to be dealt 
(continued 011 page 7)

with something, we want to deal issuing from this study should be the part of the students. with was initiated by student 
with the real issues because we made known to the entire .Uni­know that our lives are at stake versity community." allll that is evidenced by the fact The rationale behind this reso­that black students are killed lution was that presently the UnjUStifiably." director of security is the only 
Jackson also said, "Black stu­person qualified to conduct such dents were offered the opportu­a study outside of bringing in 
nity to organize the rally and such a consultant. refused on the basic reason that The SLC believed that an out­I gave, that we are no longer side consultant would be more 
conccrnt:d in dealing with rhe-objective in conducting this 1oric and dealing in demonstra­study and felt that his decision tions and fruitless manifestations would have greater credibility to of frustrations which rallies the student body than a study basically no-.v produce." conducted• by the director of 
Jackson said that he and Art security. McFarland, former President of This recommendation was the Afro-American Society, then submitted to the admini-

Father Riehle 
THURSDAY. MAY 21. 1970
PAGE 2 



National strategy born for economic actio~n 
by Steve Lazar 
At a May 18th meeting of fifteen colleges at Washington University in St. Lquis, the N a t i n a! c m mit tee f r
0 0 0 
Economic Action was born, and chiefly through the influence of two students, Notre Dame has 
· 
e c o m e t e . reg 1 on a! headquarters of the committee. 
Bill Driscoll, a sophomore Government intent and Mike Raym d f h and son b h 
on , a res man of Assistant Dean Vincent 
~c~:O~.ndbo~hf :~:nd:~sint~~! 
meeting and returned to Notre 
Dame with what Driscoll called "the outlines of a national stratergy for dealing with the
business world." 
According to Driscoll, the thrust of the NCEA's policy is to encourage corporations to develop a "social consciousness" by contacting business and labor executives, particularly the home offices, and simply "presenting the facts" to them. 
"We want to show them that the war is hurting their business rather than helping it," he said. In order to do this he said that the next three months will be spent in "sophisticated research" of the corporations in order to gather the information needed for such a confrontation. 
"It's a sort of a collective 
bargaining agreement," Driscoll said. If after negotiations with the companies business leaders still do not act on the issues of 
war, racism and political repression, only then will the NCEA endorse boycott action, said Driscoll. 
The recent boycotts against Coca Cola and Phillip Morris were ill-prepared, Driscoll felt. 
He said that the NCEA would . f
stnve or communication with h I
t e a borers and executives of a 
TV For sale $45 phone 8017 
company before a boycott was begun, if in fact a boycott was thought to be necessary. 
He mentioned, too, that the Phillip Morris Company has already promised to donate funds to the NCEA-probably for a{fvertising, he felt. 
-Driscoll said that the NCEA places "strong emphasis on local
action." He felt that if the in-
fl 
uence of the employer in a "one-company" town could be
. d NC I game the EA wou d achieve 
Student 


ann0 

unce nex 
by Mike McCarry Social Commissioner Jim 
p 0 r s t and Academic Commissioner Jim Metzger discussed their plans for next year in interviews last night. 
Porst said four concerts are planned for the football season. The opening show, to be held on 
Sept. 25, the night before the
d · · 
.Rai osses
1 


Q v e r $2600 

The damage and loss estimates from the April 26 ''panty raid" on St. Mary's College were re­leased recently. It placed the cost of the raid at $2,629.00. Over one-third ot the estimate · comes from theft in McCandless Hall. The estimated losses to the other halls were $656 in LeMans 
Hall, $539.50 in Regina Hall and $158 in Holy Cross Hall. The remainder of the esti­$364·50
mate, comes from maintenance costs, covering the 
replacement of screens and glass in addition to the cost of labor. In commenting on the panty
raid damage report, J udieial Co­ordinator Rich Urda said Stu­dent Government was currently working on a number of solu­tions to settling the damages. The first solution calls for Notre 
(continued on page 7) 

1----::;;~;;-:---=---=---.L.--=------~-~--~

cILA Runs America?! 
Sat. Nite 8:30-1:00 ADMS. 75C appearing 
John+ Phil Pat Clinton Jim Balcerski E lien Zwicker 
Melaine Mandich Roy Holscher 
and more 

Come to AMERICA 
a good measure of success. 
He added that not only did the NCEA seek support for end­ing the war, but also for relieving racism, repression and pollution here at home-all of which are caused, in part, by the corpora­
tions, he said. Speaking of the leaders of the
NCEA's meeting in St. Louis,
Driscoll said they were "hard­headed polJ.tJ···al realt'sts." He 
~
said the meeting was marked by 





Union 
t 
Purdue game, will feature Three 
Dog Night. No other groups are 
definite at this time. 
. The Social Commission will 
sponsor no concert the weekend 
of Nov. 6. "We are working on 
the assumption that the 
referendum regarding the fall 
elections will be passed," Porst 
said. 
"In that event, many students 
will be away from campus 
campaigning on that weekend," 
added Porst who said that the 
ACC is considering sponsoring a 
concert of their own on that 
d
ate. Homecoming is scheduled for the weekend of Oct. I 0. The d 'II b d d
ance Wl e ecorate as a bar of World War I vintage with war · h 1 · 
movtes e pmg create the 
h
atmosp_ere."W ld l'k h
e wou 1 e to ave more · · f
liTe xp enstve events or the students next year," he emphasized. He projected a series of weekend concerts at Stepan Center. These concerts 
would feature less expenst've entertainment and lower ticket pn···es. Th1's program t's planned for ~ the winter. Porst also cited the possibility of folk concerts featuring local talent. These would be held outside if possible. He is hopeful 
of sponsoring an event in conjunction with the Free University during the first week of school. 
"We would like to bring a relatively well-known group to campus that would discuss issues 
with students in the afternoon, and follow with an evening concert," said Porst. 
Metzger said he hoped the Academic Commission could 
brighten Notre Dame's sometimes "dull academic atmosphere." 
"I would like to focus on a few issues that haven't been emphasized here-women's liberation, the zero population growth movement, U.S. court systems,· and Latin American politics. I would also like to continue the present Asian and urban studies programs," 
Metzger said. 

r--------------....:....:=--=....:...:-=:...:......:__ ----.L._ __:::______________, 
a "minimum of rhetoric," and that the leaders were "thinking realistically-not in extremely idealistic terms of forging a stu­dent-labor alliance," he said. 
Driscoll said that another idea stemming from the NCAA meet­ing was a plan drawn up at Drew 
University. Under this plan the money saved by foregoing per­son I I ury 'te Id b
a ux l ms wou e 
· h 1 a1 h f h
gtven to t e oc c apter o t e NCEA and then used by the 
non-profit organization to pro­mote economic action. Driscoll mentioned that the committee would also like to raise funds for the New Congress Plan. 
Referring to the Notre Dame chapter of the NCEA, Driscoll ,
said the group would like to get d h " 
un erway s ortly. What we're looking for now is people to 
k h h
wor ere over t e summer-we need people to do research and we also need money."


Comml·ssl·ons 
, I
year s p ans 
Ihe biggest change in the in the halls. Guest lecturers Academic Commission next year could also be. brought to South will be its complete merger with Bend to speak. the St. Mary's organization. Both Metzger and Porst were 
."Next year the focus will be, critical of the Senate for 
/on one program," Metzger 
stated. "More events will be 
sponsored at St. Mary's on an 
experimental basis. We hope1to 
stimulate more interest over 
there without losing our Notre 
Dame attendance." 
The Academic Commission 
will try to find people who have 
specific ideas for projects but 
lack the know-how and finances 
t · 1 h M
o tmp ement t em. etzger 
· t d h
Cl e t e recent Rainbow Coalition program as an example 0 f t h · 1· f
ts new po tcy o sponsorship.M t h t k 1
e zger opes o wor c osely 

· 'th th C ·
Wl e ommumversity next H h
year. e opes to make his k 'I bl f
spea ers a val a e or secondary addresses and panel discussions 
approving a cut iri the activity f\!e. "I think the Senate made a real mistake," Metzger said. "We 

are hamstrumg financially as it is. This move will cll'\tail our program and the people who 
suffer are i'he students. I am hopeful a referendum will be held to bring the Serate back to its senses." 
"I hope the Senate realizes our situation," Porst said. "The cost of entertainment has greatly increased, as has our overhead for concerts. It costs us fifty percent more on the average to put on a concert now than it did two years ago. Face; with this fact, we may have to jump our budget, rather than cut back." 
Constitutional revision delayed until the fall 
by Ed Ellis 
Student Body President Dave Krashna, chairman of Student Government's Constitutional Revision Committee, said yesterday that the new 
constitution, which will contain a Student Forum in place of the Student Senate as the legislative 
body of government, will not be presented to the senate this year, but will be written by Krashna over the summer and presented to the new Senate in 
the fall. 
He said that since the writing of a document such as a Constitution requires a great deal of work on the part of one or two students, and no one had had the time over the past few weeks because of the strike, no further work would be done by the Constitutional Revision Committee this year. Next year, the membership of the committee will be changed since three of the hall presidents of 
the original group are no longerhall presidents. 

circumstances this was the only course of action open. 
If the newly elected Senate refuses to abolish itself, the issue will be sent to a campus-wi!}e referendum, which Krashna said he is confident of winning. 
Tom Thrasher, ranking Stay Senator and leader of the pro-senate forces on the Revision Committee, said that contrary to what Krashna said, a new Constitution had already been presented to the Senate at last week's meeting. 
The Senate was supposed to discuss the issue at this week's meeting, but a Quorum was lost when several Senators walked out of the meeting in a dispute over next year's budget. Thrasher said that the new Constitution would be discussed at the session next week. 
The new constitution, according to Thrasher, defined more clearly than is !lone at present the duties and powers of the Senate and Student Body President. This, he said, was absolutely essential if a balance 
o( power is to be maintained in
Krashna also said that he felt Student Government. The new
it a little ridiculous to elect

CLASS. of '71 
constitution also dealt with the year for the purpose of Senators in the elections next relationship of the Student 
Union to Student Government he said tha under the 
Applications are being accepted lor the positions· of: 
abolishing their own offices, but 

Regarding the possibility of a referendum for the Senate issue, Law School in D.C. 
Thrasher said he doubted the
Senior Class Fellow Chairman 
Talk about living 

possibility of its success, given 
the strict requirements of such a
arrangements in May, not 

referendum. The constitution proposed to 

Senior Week and Senior Ball Chairman 
August. Find out now which 
of your classmates will be in 

the Senate by the Senators did
Washington this fall. Call 
not include a Forum.


Graduation Chairman 
Dave Kelly at 1342. 


N.D. BOOKSTORE
Please write (listing your qualifications): Class of '71 
Record Sale 
135 Breen-Phillips by Saturday May 23 

Starts May II 



THE O&rERUDl. 

Krashna, Pohl decry fee·cutback 
by Bill Carter 
Student Union and Student Government officials issued yesterday strongly critical statements that indicated the Senate cutback of the activity fee could have serious effect on the programs of student activities for next year. 
Both Student Body President Dave Krashna and Student Union chief Bob Pohl called the Senate's action "totally irresponsible." 
Krashna said the cutback was based on an unfounded rationale that claimed the two dollar reduction would be important to the average student. 
Krashna said the effect of a two dollar cut from a $3500 biJI would be negligable and that the students would be losing a great deal more than they could gain. The cutback was not worth the subsequent limitations in social and academic activities that the lack of funds will cause, he 
added  
Krashna  indicated  that  the  
cutback's  defenders  in  the  
Senate  had  more  in mind than  

the explanations they offered for the action. 
"There seemingly is something underneath all this, " Krashna said. "It's unfortunate but I'm afraid there is probably 
a conflict of personalities involved." 
The effect of the cutback on Student Government programs will be extensive, according to Krashna. 
"I call this action irresponsible because it came at a time whep the Student Government is looking for credibility. 
"We informed the Student Body of the· programs we wanted to initiate, of the changes planned in the Student Union to try to get the money back into the halls. 
"All of that is thrown away 

New Congress Committee to campaign for liberals 
This article, written by Dort Mooney, is the second of a series of articles on the Movetr~ent For a New ConJ!Tess' plans for the fall Congressional elections. 
This November the entire Congress· and one third of the Senate is up for election. Impor­tant to remember is that the group of Senators brought in with the Johnsoo landslide of 
1964 arc now facing re-elec­

-tion. This threatens.an 4nusually large number of :'liberal" Senate scats. The Committee for A New Congress hopes to channel stu­dent workers into these and other key campaigns not only to protect Sen a tors and Congress­men opposed to the war, but to expand this to a working major­ity in both Houses to stop the war and produce the needed social changes. It is the Com­mittee's ·contention that a num­ber of campaigns around the country can be won with the additional work provided by stu­dents in organization, voter re­gistration, and canvassing. 
In the Midwest, four states might provide a real test of 

anti-war sympathy, and a work­ing margin for either the Presi­dent or peace in the coming year. 
In Illinois, Adlai Stevenson III is running ag·•inst Ralph Smith, the man Go !rnor Ogilvie ap­pointed to finish the term of Everett Dirksen. Smith has towed the Administration line on the war, ABM, and even Harold Carswell. Stevenson is a progressive Democrat who has had his share of arguments with Mayor Daley. Stevenson can win, but the students will have to take up the slack that the unenthusiastic Party Organiza­tion will leave. 
In Ohio, outspoken and in­dividualistic Dove Stephen Young is retiring. Upsets in both party primaries in May have pro­duced what will be a close race. Robert Taft Jr., Congressman from Cincinnati, defeated Gover­nor James Rhodes on a con­fusing mixture of anti-dis­senters and anti-National Guard sentiment. 
Taft, who was defeated by Young in 1964, is anxious to get his father's seat back into the family. As a Congressman he supported the war under both Johnson and Nixon. Running against Taft is Harold Met-
The Observer Is published daily during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni· verslty of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subsciptlons may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage Paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 

zenbaum, who used an imprt~­sive advertising campaign based on opposition to the war and domestic social improvements to defeat the overwhelming favor-' i te, former astronaut John Glenn. The Taft name is a big favorite in Ohio, but Metzen­baum can win if students can 
' work on voter registration in the cities, while bringing the finan­cial realities of the war to rural areas. In Indiana, Vance Hartke has to defend his anti-war stance to an electorate that gave Richard Nixon an overwhelming majority in '68. In Michigan, Phillip Hart who opposed the war and helped the fight against ABM, is up for re-election. Some other Senate Doves in­volved in elections this year are John Sherman Cooper of Ken­tucky, Edmund Muskie of Maine, Stuart Symington of Mis­souri, and Joseph Tydings of Maryland. Of course just as important are numerous Congressional campaigns. Congressman John Brademus will need the help of Notre Dame students next fall. Congressman Allard Lowen­stein's district has been gerry­mandered, and his seat is threat­ened. The national and Notre Dame Organization of the Com­mittee arc researching races all over the country to find where 
workers could be best used. 
An interesting race is in Cin­cinnati (Ohio's I st Congressional District) where a black attorney involved in ghetto redevelop­ment programs is fighting an 
·upqili battle for Robert Taft's vacated seat. Bailey Turner won the Democratic nomination in an upset and will be opposed by Republican City Councilman William Keating. Keating sup­ports Nixon's War, but his only accomplishment in office has been banning "The Doors" from concerts and record stores in Cincinnati. Unfortunately, Keat­ing will provide a great deal of money for a saturation adver­tising campaign. 
The point is that in these and many other campaigns, students can be the deciding voice, if they are willing to take the time and make the effort. President Nixon can't continue the war without at least the facit support of 


Speaker McCormack quits, expresses faith in future 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Veter­an House Speaker John W. McCormick, 78, and under at­tack as too old, bowed out yesterday with a plug for youth and a pledge of faith in the future. After 42 years in Con­gress, he said he will not seek 
reelection  to  another  House  
term in November.  
''I'm  still  trying  to  see  I 0  

years into the future," the Mass­achusetts lawmaker told report­ers who jammed into his ornate Capitol office to hear his retire­ment announcement. "I know how old I am. I don't apologize 
for it. I hope I live to be a lot older." 
McCormick said he will serve out the year in the $72,500 a year Speaker's post that 'is con­sidered one of the most power­ful offices in Washington. 
As for age, McCormick said age is a matter of attitude, and that his attitude remains young. He praised the college students who have besieged Capitol Hill the past I 0 days in opposition to the Cambodian War, even though he has supported Presi­dent Nixon's policies. 
FINAL SALES!! 
METCLUBBAGGAGETRUCK THURS., MAY 21 7:00 PM COKEBAR,LAFORTUNE 
now. We were hoping for an expansion of the Arts progrdms at Notre Dame and this will certainly severely hurt that project. 
"You don't even have to talk about inflation and the increase in costs. The money for hall improvement, minority recruitment, all those things we talked a'bout will have to be cut," Krashna said. 
K r ashna also viewed the Senate action as indicative of what he feels is a general characteristic of the Senatj!. 
"This only serves to reassert my view of the Senate as worthless. It is not even clearer that we have to make chang es in the legislative branch of student government," he said. 
Union head, Bob Pohl was even more definitive in his criticism of the Senate's action. Along with aides Tom Olivieri and Ken Mannings, Pohl is drawing up an official statement of disapproval of the Senate move on the grounds that the cutback will drastically hurt the programs of some student organizations even if not the Student Union itself. 
Pohl explained that the Union may receive the same amount of funds as last year, (though that is now unlikely) offering the organization the chance to present basically the same kind of services as this past year but denying the possibility for the planned expansion of activities. 
"The Senate acted irresponsibly," Pohl said. "It was completely an ego thing for them, seeking •self-gratification in not looking out for the good of the students but thinking only of the good of the Senate. This is definitely going to put somebody in a bind. Somebody technical materials are constantly increasing in price. 
According to Union leaders the students can no longer expect the concert prices to be the same for next year, nor the lectures to remain free of charge. 
Olivieri who was at the Senate meeting, concurred in Pohl's opinion that the action would serve to close out many option for next year. He felt the move was totally unjustified. 
"The Senators who spoke out against the reduction were the ones who had genuinely canvassed their constituencies. Those supporting the motion 
had done no adequate research at all," he said. 
Olivieri explained what he meant by "adequate research" by citing a few examples. 
"The whole question of whether or not The Observer would need funds was not investigated. If it had been, The Observer people would have told them they wouldn't be able to function completely independent of funding. You just don't cut a budget like this in one session. 
"The argument that the students can support hall activities just won't hold up. The money will never find its way back to the halls. It was noted that the Social Commission had a $10,000 surplus this year when that was only the profits from the concert season, which is never a guaranteed success, and did not include the money the commission lost on Homecoming, Grand Prix and other Projects," said Olivieri. 
As possible action to prevent the two dollar cut from taking place both Krashna and the 
(continued un page 7) 

is not going to get the right share r-----::---------....., of money that they deserve." "69 Triumph "Pohl, Olivieri and Manning.~ cited the difficulties the 
$3.85 per hour 
White Collar Position. Will be trained ill Marketing, office procedures and management. 
$154 weekly salary 
Prefer students rnajoring in business, advertising or psychology. 
Call Mr. Woods in Indianapolis at: 
i 

1-317-632-7846 
1-317-632-2891 



WANTED 
One Student Union Secretary For Next Year 
Must be an experiem.·ed typist-Work m 
the afternoons -Good pay -If interestt•d 
<:aJJ 7757 (N oon-5:00 PM) 
PAGE 4 







THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 

DAVID C'. BAC'H, Editor GA.ETANO M. De SAPIO, Publisher 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Dave Lammers 


Professors 

What has been the effect of the Communiversity on the educational processes of the "official" University? Students cried out at rallies that the day-to-day routine had to stop, and the implication was that our normal education is largely irrelevant to the present crisis. As Fred Dedrick asked, why study metaphysics and poetry and calculus when we are involved in an ever growing national crisis? This is not to put down Philosophy and English. It is a way of acknowledging the obvious fact that education today is not successfully relating the timeless, the theoretical, the historical, the spiritual, to the present national tragedies and personal anxieties. 
The first problem is that education has to a large extent failed to make the study of the past relevant to our understanding of the present. The second problem, which is obviously related, is that p~ofess_ors and administrators attempt to be factual, objective, dtspasswnate, and academic, shying away from commitment suppressing value judgements in the interest of "objectivity." Th~ attempt to divorce facts and values is a futile stab at weeding out the "subjective" from education. That futile attempt has made much of our education meaningless and irrelevant. 
Look at the behavioral psychologists for example. By saying that man is determined totally by the sense experiences contained within his environment, these men are making an obvious value judgement. Their value judgements and commitment to a certain view of man's nature affects all of their "objectivity." Professor Anderson of the Psychology Department explains his philosophy in the first day of General Psychology, and I admire him for his openness. Other men will merely say, "Here is the data. The value judgements concerning these facts is a different matter that I don't concern myself with." Such a stand for objectivity is impossible, for the value system of the professor will determine what "objective" facts the students learns the context that he learns them in, the method of presentation, etc: All language, including content information, is partially subjective. The value-fact dictionary is a fraud that sucks the meaning out of education, and some students have seen through the academicians that claim "objectivity within the classroom." 
A professor cannot teach theology without including his personal stand on God, Jesus, the Church, etc. A professor cannot teach the history of Vietnam without allowing his personal stand on the war to influence his presentation. A professor cannot teach psychology and attempt to exclude his understanding ofthe nature of man. 
. ~hat are the effects of this seemingly nebulous problem? The hmng and firing policy is a major consequence. Professors are fired becaus~ th_ey are firmly committed, and the rationale is that they are not_ objechve enough. Professors are hired because they have a Ph.D., whtch means that they are good researchers into some picayune little area in their field and only incidently on the basis of the wisdom and guidance that they could offer to their students. 
Within the classroom, the value fact separation is equally harmful. Professors feel that only on occasion can they interject their personal viewpoint, for to express a committment to a value system would be non-academic and dangerous! So teachers remain silent on the issues.that ~re important to students and then later they blanch when thetr offl~es are ransacked. They perpetrate the objectivity fraud and depnve the student of the most important part of his education. "Get to know the professor outside of the classroom" we are told; the implication being that the personal element would deflower the virgin data. And since the professor fails to take a stand 
on the issues contained within the material, -the student also fails to relate the content of the class to his personal life. He fails for the most part to see how the conten.t is relevant to the here and now because that "just isn't done" because "it's not academic." 
Then we are told that a man who openly expresses his value system and argues in favor of it is just spewing out propaganda! Bull~hit. I admire Dr. Niemeyer for expressing his viewpoint, I admue Dr. Anderson for arguing in favor of behavioralism and I?on't agree_ with them. Personally, I enjoy a teacher who say;, "This ts what this thinker is saying to me. I agree with him on this I disagree with him on that, he is relevant to me because of his thoughts on this," etc. Imagine the ludicrousness of an atheist teaching theology or a Marine general teaching non-violence. But then imagine the fraud of an educational system that says that it doesn't matter what the personal beliefs of the professor happen .to be, because he just presents the facts in class and researches more facts outside the class. 
It is through experiencing different value-systems that a student learns to discriminate and judge his own values and beliefs. When a professor openly expresses his beliefs and how they relate to his course he is being honest and is admired for it. Through such a committment, a professor can proceed to make his material relevant to the age and meaningful to the lives of his students. 
Executive Editor: Dave 
Stauffer Business Manager: Bruce Rieck Ad. Mgr.: Bruce Barker Campus Editor: Glen Corso News Editor: Steve Hoffman SMC News Editor: Jeanne 
Sw!leney Associate Editors: Cliff 


The opinions expressed in the
Wintrode, Ann Conway Features Editor: T.C. Treanor editorials, news analyses, and 
Spor:!s Editor: Terry Shields columns of THE OBSERVER are solely those of the authors and

Night Editor: Cliff Wintrode editors of THE OBSE AVER and
Layout Design: Phil Barth do .1ot nece,sHrily reflect the
Headlines: Frank Weigand views of St. Mary's College, theLayout: Terry Shields, University of Notre Dame, theirBro. Patrick Carney administrations, faculty or stu·Night Controller: Tom Duffy dent bodies. 

Thank heavens somebody pledged Howard! 

,Campus Opinion 

:::::::~:;~::~~::~::;:;~;==~:=h:=;=;=::~=i~::;~~~==;:~~;~=:==~~:::==;:~:~~~:=;~;!;==~; 
Professor James Massey in which Dr. Massey decried the p~esence of ROTC on campus. 
Mr. Massey centers a part of his argument against ROTC on the basis that it is a vocational training program. ROTC, as a vocational training program, prostitutes a person's intellect, thereby causing him to devote his efforts to the seeking of "transitory and worthless goals"--according to Mr. Massey's argument. And yet, education courses are vocational courses; does taking an education course debase a person's intellect? Does taking Computer Science stunt a person's intellectual growth? A person does not become a mental vegetable by taking "vocational" sourses, but by not taking or not putting any effort into humanities courses. 
The military is an instrument of foreign policy, not a shaper of foretgn policy as Mr. Massey seems to imply. If foreign policy is ~ormu_lated solely on the basis of military, considerations, the fault hes wtth the State Department and the president, not the military. Whe? the _Secreta~y of State bases his decisions primarily on military 
constderatwns whtle the Defense Secretary pays principal attention to political and diplomatic considerations, you have a hesitant fouled­-up foreign policy --one that led to first involvement a~d later indecision in Indo-China. Thus it is the State Department and not the military --ROTC in particular--that should be the target for protest on foreign policy. 
Mr. Massey also states that the university should not devote any par~ of its efforts to the training of soldiers for' the military on the basts that the military is ~ot an honorable profession. I quoh· Herman Wouk -who obviously feels differently -in The Caine Mutiny Court-Martial: 
"Greenwald: 'Course I'm warped, and I'm drunk, but it suddenly seems to me that if I wrote a war novel I'd try to make a hero out of Old Yellowstain (Queeg). No, I'm serious, I would. Tell you why. Tell you how I'm warped. I'm a Jew, guess most of you know that...Well, anyway -the reason I'd make Old Yellowstain a hero is on account of my mother, little gray headed Jewish lady, fat. Well, sure you guys all have mothers, but they wouldn't be in the same bad shape mine would be if we'd of lost this war. See, the Germans aren't kidding about the Jews. They're cooking us down to soap over there. They think we're vermin and should be 'sterminated and our corpses turned into something useful. Granting the premise -being warped, I don't, but granting the premise ­soap is as good as an idea as any. But I just can't cotton to the idea of my mom melted down to a bar of soap. Now, I'm coming to Old Yellowstain. Coming to him. See, Mr. Keefer, while I was studying law and you were writing short stories for national magazines, and little Willie here was on the fields of Princeton, why all that time these birds we call regulars, these stuffy stupid Prussians, they were standing guard on this fat, dumb, and happy country of ours. 'Course they were doing it for dough , same as everybody does what they do. Question is in the last anal -last analysis, what do you do for dough? You and me, for dough, were advancing our free little non-Prussian careers. So, when all hell broke loose and the Germans started running out of soap and figured, well, time to come over and melt down old Mrs. Greenwald, who's gonna stop 'em? Not 
her boy Barney. Can't stop a Nazi with a lawbook. So, I dropped the lawbooks, and ran to Jearn how to fly. Stout fellow. Meantime, and it took a year and a half beforei was any good, who was keeping Mama out of the soap dish? Tom Keefer? Communication school? Willie Keith? Midshipman school. Old Yellowstain, maybe? Why, yes, even poor sad Queeg. And most of them not sad at all, fellows, a fot of them 

1 sharper boys than any of us, don't kid yourself, you can't be
·I good in the Army or Navy unless you're goddam good." It you think communism isn't any sort of menace, ask the Czechoslovakians, the Hungarians, the Cuban refugees or Lloyd Bucher. Then there are some people who can't answer: The Volga Germans, 50,000 South Vietnamese whom the VietCong boast that they are killed -including some 6000 at Hue. Or the people killed when NorthK Korean planes attacked a Navy EC-121 one hundred miles out at sea. They'd have some interesting answers. 
PAGE 5

THURSDAY. MAY 21, 1970 711B OBSERIIEit 
Skinny dip strategy 



baffles Spiro T. 
WASHINGTON (UPl)-The war pro­tie them in knots,"he charged. 'This is an test movement in this country takes unconstitutional police state tactic that many forms and diredions, including seeks to suppress the right of dissent. 



OBSERVER
splashing about in public fountains in the But Cascade said the alleged mis­nude. 
treatment of the Skinnydippcrs was proving counter-productive. He said
This is something that Vice President 
FEATURES
scores of previously uncommitted stu­Spiro T. Agnew apparently doesn't under­dents were leaping into the fountains outstand. 
of sympathy for the oppressed splashers. his comments m a re­I said, "What reason do you have to
Judging from believe that the splash ins will be an
cent television interview, Agnew sees no effective weapon of protest?"
connection between nude fountain 
"They make waves," he pointed out.
splashing and President Nixon's decision to send U.S. troops into Cambodia. 
Be~.:ause of this blind spot, the vice 
King of the Hill

president concluded that the students who dunked themselves in the altogether in a park fountain and later during the byafanofZ One of the first things the fans notice every balmy springtime afternoon, chant­May 9 antiwar demonstration here merely Those of you who walk up the path to about "Big Z," as he is affectionately ing "Z! Z! Z!" 
were "out on a typkal spring lark." 
Holy Cross Hall these balmy springtime called, is his superb physical condition. afternoons arc greeted with a familiar We asked him how he kept in shape: 
Odd

sight-the HC ball games. And your ears "Every year I try out for the Presi­
Does Not Recognize Protest are just as often greeted with the roars of dent's All-America Team. That's where On an academic note, Rep. the fans: "Z! Z! Z!" The method behind you throw a softball, run, pull-up, sit-up, Dan Kuykendall, R--:Tenn., call­I must confess that I, too, did not 

this madness was explored in depth re­and throw-up." ed the House's attention to aimmediately recognize the naked intru­cently, resulting in this report on what Have you made it yet? pledge by students at Montgom­sion into the fountain as a protest against 
has been called "Z-feve~ "Well, I got the running, pulling-up, ery College in Maryland that "ifthe U.S. intrusion into Cambodia. 
We talked with the source of this sitting-up and throwing up down pretty they marry they will produceBut then I had a talk with Rennie frenzy, Greg Zimnawoda, to get the story good, but I'm still having trouble throw­only two children and if theyCascade, one of the leaders of the radical 
behind the legend, to find out what kind ing a softball." remain single, they will limit"Skinny dipper" faction of the Students 
could so the We It been their offspring to one."
for a Democratic Society SDS. of man inspire fans. (Confidential: has reported 
found him;· in the cool of the dugout, that "Big Z" has caught the eye of several He noted that it was part of"What do you have to say about Vice dripping perspiration after big league scouts, including those from an Earth Day promotion on the
President Agnew describing the splash in with a hard 
inning, keeping his locomotive left arm the Chicago White Sox). over population threat, but ob­as a lark?" l asked. 
rubbery in his natty-gray NO sweatshirt. Being a White Sox fan at heart, his goal jected to the guideline.
"That's the kind of comment you We asked him how he could endure the of 40 wins this season may be beyond his "I happen to be a third childexpect from a hawk," Cascade replied. 
strain of pitching so many games (already grasp, but don't tell that to his fans-they and if that formula applied, it
Far from being an impromptu frolic, as 
many on-lookers assumed, the splash in in the fledgling season, his record is 6-3 ). know that he is the winningest pitcher in would have left me with a very "Well, it's like this-I may be pitchi. HC ball history, as well as swinging a limited choice, either not to be
was a carefully planned operation organ­but I've got a whole team behind me. I'I, potent stick, and they'll be out there born at all or to be illegitimate." 
ized and carried out by militant, hard 
just a cog in the machine, and I'm only a
core Skinnydippers, he said. soph-o-more." let if bleed:======:=======================================================================================================================================:
"We shall continue skinnydipping in What are your goals for the season? 
the public fountains of America until the "I'd like to duplicate my feat of lastnation ~.:omcs to its senses in regard to 
S.C.O. Write On
year-to throw another strike."
Vietnam," he vowed. 
We next inquired about the famed "Z-ball," which causes so many hitters to 
Has Evidence Of Persecution drop their bats in disgust after a harmless pop-up: 

This is not particularly a features article. 

Cas~.:ade daimed he had evidence that "It's something I developed while try­Jim E. Brogan had nothing to do with it. 
the FBI was conducting a campaign of ing t 1 chip onto greens from out of But don't get your hopes up; it still probably won't be funny. 
persecution and harassment against the sand-traps." 
I am writing it because in the midst of all the activity of striking and revolutionarySkinny dippers. 
Would he describe his "radio ball" to chit-chat recently, there has emerged one (to me, anyway) particularly urgent and"Every time we take off our clothes us? 
significant political thrust which I believe more of us should recognise and support.
for a splash in, FBI agents sneak up and "You can hear it, but you can't see it." 
As we are already painfully aware, many young men across the country cannot in good conscience support our military activities in Southeast Asia but can neither
lnd ians fnally find the range 
conscientiously resist nor claim to be totally pacifist, as the current conscientious objection Jaws would require. Realistically viewed, the alternatives available to tnemHOSPAH, N.M. (UPI)-The cowboys have enjoyed seeing the cattle on his are either jail, sin (in acting against their personal consciences), and emigration. There lost to the Indians Wednesday. land." 
is now, however, a proposal designed to offer a new alternative, a possible response by Cattlemen, trying to drive 600 head of Cow boys loaded the charolais cattle the government for democratically respecting the individual's right to conscientiouslyFrench bred charolais across the Navajo into trucks shortly after dawn. Loftin object to specific armed conflicts. 
reservation from New Mexico to Color­said the herd would be corralled for ado were turned back because the Indians Wednesday night on the north side of the 
Because unjust killing is innately and universally held to be wrong-and because
didn't want the animals on their grass. 36 mile strip of reservation land. 
according to the Nuremburg decisions it is the responsibility of the individual citizen So the Great Western Land and Cattle After the loss to the Navajos, the to follow his own conscience concerning participation in political wars-a lawCo. was forced to load the animals in cowboys now must face the Apaches. But affirming the right not to murder is absolutely necessary and polit!cally feasible. Suchtrucks for transport across the reserva­that battle is expected to be friendlier. 
a bill has already been proposed to the House Armed Services Committee, where
tion. "We'll be going onto the Jicarilla representatives led by Mendell Rivers seem determined to ignore it into oblivion.
As the trucks rolled by, Indians in Apache reservation probably sometime Students on this campus have in turn decided to focus a concerted appeal to thebluejeans stood firmly beside barbed wire Thursday," Loftin said. "We've got cattle legislature's Judicial Committees and to Catholic bishops and cardinals for support of afences they put up to keep the cattle out trailing permits from the Apache and selective conscientious objection bill. In a letter to members of those congressionaland preserve their grasslands. they'll be real happy to let us on their committees, Phil McKenna writes: 
Navajos said a similar cattle drive last land." 
year damaged their range. Loftin also said the drive's oldest cow­"Neither you nor I would claim that any government is infallible. And if the "If they had ever, at any time, asked boy, Gus Wynn, 70, of Levelland, Tex., 
government is fallible, it is capable of unjust war; if an individual recognises a war as our permission to come across the reser­dropped out because of his age and the unjust, it is immoral for him to participate in that war ... The right not to kill is a rightvation without trucks, we would have heat. "He got pretty tired," Loftin said. the law must respect if the law is to be respected. A selective conscientious objection 
helped them obtain permission from land­"But he sai-d he'd meet us at Pagosa 
status amendment to the present lottery bill is an absolute necessity. Without this 
owners," said Navajo land administrator Springs, the trail's end, if he could." 
provision the present lottery bill is less than meaningless-it is a gross and callous William B. Bonner. "But they didn't." 
disrespect of the consciences of those persons susceptible to the draft. The individual's Grant Loftin, a Great Western spokes­The drive began last Sunday at Grants, 
right and obligation not to unjustly kill another human being is absolute... The right
Indian who leased some of N.M. Great Western planned to drive the
man, said an and obligation not to kill unjustly are inalienable to the individual's conscience and a 
the land blocked off "tolrl me he was cattle 200 miles to Pagosa Springs, Colo., 
necessary part of a democracy which claims to respect the freedom of religion ...lf tltis 
put up. He said he'd for summer pasture.
mad the fence was nation is sincere in its democratic intentions, the right of the individual to refuse to murder must be respected and supported even by those who do not share his moral
Rock fest Piano· recital 
judgement on a particular act of killing." McKenna's statement is clear-further, it is For anyone who digs rock music, the On the other side of the spectrum is a urgent. For those seniors graduating in June there is simply not enough time to legally 
Strike committee is sponsoring a Rock Senior piano recital by Kathrine Ann adjust this injustice; they will face the lottery in their own ways, without this minimal Extravaganza this Friday nigh l, May 22, Dent of St. Mary's Music Department. moral option ~vailable. ill the University Arts Center (field house) Kathy will perform Mozart's Sonata in B 
Please support this bill. There are, admittedly, as of yet few ways to do so. The
at 8:00p.m. Scheduled to play arc The flat Major and selctions from Ravel and most obvious ways are: (I) to learn about the details of such a proposal in upcoming Magnificent Seven, First Friday, The Lar­Schumann at 8:15 p.m. on Friday, May talks and discussion; (2) for seniors, to sign a planned open letter to all American ry Beecher Sextet, Zagfield, Flight, Dew, 22, in SMC's Little Theater. Kathy is a bishops asking for their advise and aid; (3) to write (or arrange to have written) lettersOctopus, and Atlantis. In order to make senior from Kansas City who will receive supporting this bill, and (4) to report to the Keenan typing headquarters with up the $900 spent on the Strike, a her Bachelor of Music degree in Piano typewriter, fingers, or time, to help send out copies of McKenna's letter. The appeal isdonation of one dollar will be collected at Performance. 
to those in a position to legislate the rights of the individual back to the people. Butthe door. 
first the people must demand those rights. · 

Senate to ease amendment wording 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-,-Senate 1 ead.e rs agreed in principle yesterday on softened language for an amendment that ·Would cut off funds for U.S. military operations in Cambodia. 
But Republicans were so split over the fundamental issues involved that a head knocking confrontation and an indefinite debate appeared unavoidabl~. 
Senate Democratic leader Mike Mansfield and GOP leader Hugh Scott worked out the language in general terms in an exchange on the Senate floor. 
The major changes would be to emphasize that the Senate was in accord with Nixon's intention to withdraw quickly, rather than implying that the Senate does not trust him. 
However, the substance of the 
amendment-to hold Nixon to 
his promise of a withdrawal 
from Cambodia by June 
30-would not be altered. 
Sen. Frank Church, D-Idaho, 
who is sponsoring the Cambodia 
amendment with Sen. John 
Sherman Cooper, R-Ky., 
immediately endorsed the 
language change, with details to 
be worked out later. 

But, in a surprise move, the No. 1 Senate Republican-assist­ant leader Robert P. Griffin-said he could not support the amendment in any form as long as it abridged Nixon's powers as commander in chief. 
Griffin said the Cooper-Church measure "aids , the enemy" because it would tie the President's hands to a specific battlefield tactic, 
Scott, however, said he was "delighted" that the backers of the amendment would be willing to make the change and noted that he had never opposed the Cooper-Church approach on practical terms-only its seeming critical slap at Nixon. He 
predicted on my own authority" that Nixon would beat the June 30 deadline. 

Scott's objective in endorsing the change was to create a consensus bill that would attract overwhelming support and de-emphasize the deepening national split over the war· in Southeast Asia. 
How many votes he would be able to pick up through the tactic was uncertain. Sponsors of the measure claim a slim but firm majority already and such toned down. 
G0 P  conservatives  as  Sen.  
Robert  Dole,  R-Kan.,  have  
indicated that they would  back  
the  bill  if  the  language  were  

But Griffin and perhaps 30 other Republican senators have indicated they would not yield in 1:1ny way to legislation they re­garded as potentially harmful to American troops in the field. 

B52's spearhead Cambodian thru~t 
SAIGON (UPI)-Three thou­sand South Vietnamese troops, preceded by U.S. B52 bombers, drove into a Communist sanc­tuary across' ·the <Cambodian 
frontier in the central· highlands 
yesterday in what Allied military source~ said was th~ final majorthrust mto Cambodia. American jets. helicopter e:un­ships and artillery supported · 
t

the tank-led South Vre . namese 
.

force as rt opened the 13th front of the Cambodian campaign. 
· . d th

US. . adVIsors accompame e 
· t b t th u S C

Sargon roops u e . . om­
.

mand sard no U.S. ground forces 
· 1 d · th · 

south of the Cambodian caprtaL been killed so far in American across the frontier, and another While the new Allied column and South Vietnamese drives l ,150 captured. struck into Cambodia, Allied of-1 
ficials in Saigon reported that at 
least 8,338 Communists have . 
s,·afran Relievers meet to discuss 
next years , plans 
.
Students for Brafran Relief 
. .
will hold a general meetmg to­
. ht t · R c 1
7.30 10 2
mg a · oom . a 
Fortune for those who are mter­
d . h .
1 . 
este m e pmg next year m 
..t. t b d
actiVI res o e p1anne .
SBR b d' b d d
.11 



coM M U N IVERS I TY 
THURSDAY, MAY 21 
1 pm 2:00pm 
3:00pm 

Geneva Accords, Seato Treaty, & Containment Rita Cassidy 
Library Auditorium 
Guerilla Priests in Latin America 
Tim MacCarry 

Student Center 2nd floor 
Futility of Political Action without a Firm 
Moral Commitment 
William Fairley 


WI e IS an e on 

Law Auditorium
were mvo ve m e operatl~:m. June 30,1970, but will work The new thrust, 125 mdes . . · · h h 4:00pm Where Are We Going· . 'd d next year m associatiOn wrt t e
northeast of Sargon, comer e . 
Gloria Shapiro
with Phnom Penh reports that InternatiOnal Red Cross and the 
LaFortune Student Center additional units of the U.S. ?th United Nations under the name 
2nd floorStudents World Concern. Notre 

8:00pm C.B.W. of Thailand to help the South 
Fleet had been sent to the Gulf Dame will continue to be the 
Julian Pleasants Vietnamese blockade designed international headquarters for 
LaFortune Student Center
the concern.

to cut off sea shipments of 
2nd floor supplies to Communist forces in 
d b I 

Ca~a~~~cllanmilitarysourcesin Stu ents react to 0 server artie e 
Phnom Penh said the U.S. vessels 
were radar picket ships that are f



II d d b I k d 
patrolling in international waters on ra y ror eo ac stu en ts 
well outside the 12 mile limit. In ground action south of (continued from page l) 
Moorhead State College, and did 
Phnom Penh, Cambodian mer-the black students and Dave not know that Golden had no
cenary troops sent in from 'strike leader' it must be true. Krashna are -well-it is almost part in the planning of the rally.
South Vietnam were reported This was totally false. ridiculous to say that we are pressing a three pronged opera­"The fact that the blacks Golden also explained the working hand in hand with each tion in Takeo province to trap would not attend was known quoted reference to Black Na­other. Because Dave Krashna is a Viet Cong and North Vietnam­from the beginning of the plan­tionalism in yesterday's article 
member of the ·Afro-American ese retreating westward from the ning for the rally: It was mutual­by comparing it with a campus­Society and Dave Krashna is. Meking River front. ly agreed that blacks do not have wide rally held shortly after the Black. Along with his responsi­Cambodian military sources to be educated by leaflets, Jackson State killings last week. bilities as Student Body Presi­
said the mercenaries had swept speakers, rallies, etc., to the real­"I compared that rally to the dent Dave Krashna does have a more than two thirds of the 45 ity of racism in America nor pitiful turnout at Notre Dame responsibility to the black stu­miles from Phnom Penh to should they waste their time to and said that was a symptom of dents. We realize this and we do 
SHE WlS AlWA!S AUillllE WHEI THE PRICE WAS ii;HT' 

Takeo on Highway 2. They were educate whites abol\t it," read Notre Dame's racism. In the face work well together."
A lAilT MAHON Production 

seeking to link up with South the Strike Commitee statement. of this sort of racism, Black
Distributedlty SACK AMUSIMINTINTIINI515 "The situation between my­
Vietnamese troops pushing west Golden, the "strike leader" Nationalism is a necessity, es­self and black students on cam­Proof of red from Takeo, a provincial capital anonymously quoted in the pecially here at Notre Dame," pus should not be terribly differ­paper denied some of the quoted said Golden. 
ent," commented Krashna. "I remarks and expanded on the Jackson had similar comments am in constant communication
Hair Styling· 
others in a letter to The Obser­about the Notre Dame rally. "In with the Afro-American Society, for ND men the Continental Way 
ver. the first place;" he said, "it was being a member, and will con­-RBzor Cuttil)g .\ Style . 
The Observer reporter who a sign of the underlying racist tinue to be." quoted him was a personal attitudes among the students­He said that he felt that the
Euroilcau Layer Sh_aNn~ f!U L'oria:Raif 
friend of Golden's and when he even those who feel that they statement about a rift may have
Have Long lfazr & Let Miss Treva & The Baron 
talked to Golden after the rally are radical or liberal or what
Be Well Groomed .~ 

come from the fact that when he did not inform Golden that have you-by the fact that they
Serve & Pamper You 
Krashna changed the format of

Continental Hair Styling 
his remarks would be used in didn't respond when the killings the General Student Assembly
306 Sherland Bldg. 

reporting the rally. took place. on the strike two weeks ago
Student Rates 

The reporter was unaware of Black people came onto the
South Bend, Ind. 

"They waited a week to dothe fact that Golden had been 
stage. He said that the incident out of town, attending a rally at 
234-0811 

anything about it. Nobody said was "a moment of confusion"
anything at the time the shit was coming down. But then after 
By Ap 

and was settled the next day in a about a week they decided 'we'll 
meeting between himself and 
members of the Afro-American



ATTENTION ALL 
jump on the bandwagon and do something-have another rally 
Sqciety. In response to questioningand some more speeches'," said


SOPHOMORES 
Krashna noted that the Afro­Jackson. 
American Society was originallyJackson also joined with Stu­established because black stu­dent Body President Dave Krash­dents felt "alienated from Stu­na in denying that there is a rift dent Government". He said thatbetween Krashna and black stu­he was working to convincedents. 

Blacks that they ~ould be "ade­
Sophomores may start placing ring orders NOW 
"That in itself (the claim of a quately represented in studentrift) is a ridiculous statement," government."
Jackson commented, "because 
Baggage to New England•••
'Hours: 1:30-4:30 Monday Thru Friday 
Economical 
m office on second floor of ND Bookstore Call or see Jack Gillis at 6809 or 821 Grace 




NY workers support War policy 
Nl;.W YORK (UI'I) While 
and blue collar workers, 
estimated unofficially by police 
at I00,000, massed as far as the 
eye could see around City Hall 
during their lunch hour 
y csterday in a giant rally in 
support of President Nixon's 
Vietnam War policy. 
{here was some minor 
scuffling as the rally broke up 
but no arrests. 
It was the largest 
pro-adminil;tration 
demonstration held here since 
helmeted construction workers 
'Get 'back money' 

(continued fmm page 3) 
Union leaders supported the idea 
of a student referendum to 
counteract the Senate's motion. 
Krashna also plans first to 
reconvene the Senate once again 
to atto,mpt a reconsideration of 
the motion. 
"We have to try to get that 
two dollars back. If we don't 
then the reduction will certainly 
ha mpcr any thing student 
government tries to do next 
year. I think a student 
referendum would be successful. 
"I am hopeful it would be and 
that the petty arguments 
supporting the reduction would 
be seen in an accurate light. 
"There were only 24 out of 
4 7 senators present at that 
meeting so that means I 2 poeple 
decided next year's funds. 
I definitely think the bill 
would have been defeated if the 
whole Senate had been there," 
said Krashna. 

Raid retribution plans considered 

!continued from page 2) 
Dame to make no attempt at 
repayment at all for the lost 
artidcs. The second calls for 
voluntary contributions to be 
made by all those involved in the 
raid. The third suggestion would 
have Student Government ask 
the Hall President's Council for 
help in repaying the damages. 
Urda emphasized that all the 
plans were indefinite right now 
and that none of the solutions 
had been begun as yet. He added 
that the committee that had 
studied the raid would be 
coming out with a report on the 
specific panty raid of April 26th 
to he puhlished sometime during 
the summer. 
Urda also pointed out that the 
reprecussions from the panty 
raid could have been far more 
widespread if Sl. Mary's had 
decided to prosecute. 
HIP IT HOME AIR FREIGHT 
May 26th through June 3rd 

You Can Ship Collect 
lh·t a i1ul too m fJ y t.·t~ 
will bt.· pa~ .... t·d out latn. 

began daily demonstrations in the tlnandal district May 8 to counter rallies by hippie type anti-war protestors. On the first day. City IIall was stoned and the construction workers beat up hippie protestors and college students. 
Thousands of police, inducting 2,700 officers brought 
in  on  overtime,  were  assigned  
yesterday  to  the  area  hut  they  
had  no  trouble  with  the  flag  

c a r r y i n g d e m o n s t rato rs, ind u ding construction men, longshoremen, communications workers and office workers. 
Union leaders exhorted the workers over loudspeakers to keep it peaceful, and they did. 
Many of the placards carried by the demonstrators demanded "Impeach the Red Mayor" and "Impeach Red John Lindsay", 
while others read "We Support wound up shortly after I p.m. Nixon on Vietnam", "Dump with the lunch hour crowd still Anarchy" and "No Surrender." packing the streets. Lindsay was hung in effigy. American flags by the hun­
Lindsay arrived in an dreds flapped in the breeze dur­unmarked car while the ing the mass rally. Some of the demonstrators were still massed, workers carried large flags on but after a brief speaking staffs, others small, hand-size program was over, the police flags. made a path for his car through Waving the flags and cheering the crowds. was the only outlet for many of 
The confetti strewn rally the demonstrators who crowded began about II :00 a.m. and the narrow streets of the City 



SLC okays increase 
. . representation to the graduate( contmued from page 1) students while basically main-

that the council membership taining the tripartite nature of r-------,D--0-M-£------, 
simply be enlarged to include the council. This motion was 
three representatives with full voted upon and passed by the membership rights from· the council. graduate and professional Pending the decision of the schools. Board of Trustees the motion 
It was felt that this would give will go into effect next year. 

You only go around once in life. So grnb for all the gusto you can. Even in the beer you drink. Why settle for less? 
When you're out of Schlitz, you're out of beer. 
Hall area. Some were unable to hear the speeches because the words became unintelligible as they bounced off the walls of the surrounding skyscrapers. 
Following the rally, the dem­onstrators marched to Battery Park at the foot of Manhattan where the workers left to return to their jobs. On the way to the park, some of the marchers en­countered heckling from some bystanders. Several minor scuf­fles broke out, but police, who had a relatively easy time con­trolling the mass demonstration, quickly intervened. 
Color Pictures at Bookstore Jewelry Counter-only view ofits kind. 



THURSDAY, MAY 21, 1970
PAGE 8 

• Terry Sh 1e lds :=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:===================================:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=========
Irish the vigil 
The Irish Eye 


starts and gave them an· overall

conclude its regular season on a
by Jim Donaldson 
season record of 16-12. The Irish 

winning note as the Irish handed c:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::::::::::====~==============: Pleased but not Surprised
Observer Sportswriter Valparaiso a 4-0 setback Tues­are hopeful that their excellent Mickey Karkut's three-hit day afternoon at the Crusader percentage of late (.882 since John Dee sat in his Convo office with a contented look on his diamond. April 18), will aid them in re­face. He know that the topic of discussion was going to be the
pitching and two runs batted in The win was the fifteenth for ceiving a bid to compete in the players that he signed to come to Notre Dame next year. Heby Nick Scarpelli enabled the 
NCAA regional tournament. The

Notre Dame in their last l 7 couldn't help but be happy. Big Ten and MAC champions are ''I'm very pleased with the boys that we have signed. l feel that assured of berths in the regional they just could be one of the best freshmen teams in tht< country competition while the other two next year. I'm pleased but not surprised. It's my recruiting 
openings are filled by indepen­philosophy to go big every three years and recruit an entire team. In dent powers. Dayton, Ball St., the off years I just go for two or three good, solid performers that and Detriot are possible candi­can help build a power." 
dates for the two independent So far Dee has been very successful in his recruiting. Seven future berths, along with the Irish. The Irish stars are already in the fold and there are two more that are Irish didn't play Dayton or Ball giving Notre Dame serious consideration. All of the recruits havt: 
St. this season and split a pair of outstanding credentials. 
meetings with the Titans, win­Notre Dame baseball team to 

The first to sign with ND was .a t<1ll forward from Los Angeles ning 74 and bowing 7-S. The named Tom O'Mara. He is 6'6" and weighs in at 18S lb. O'Mara was Irish have not played in the selected as an all-league performer three straight years at Loyola NCAA tourney since 1963. High in the Del Rey League. He was the league MVP for the last two 
seasons. His senior year stats read 26 ppg. and 19 rebounds per
Karkut was superb on the 
contest.
mound for the Irish Tuesday, 

Illinois provided four stars for next years "Freddies." Sam
notching his first shutout of the 

Puckett is just a little guy but' his credentials are giant size. In three 
season. The win was his fourth 
years at Hales Franciscan in Chicago the S'IO" ace scored 2,700
of the year against five losses. 
points. He made second team All-America in Parade magazine (it's
Karkut fanned five and walked 

interesting to note that a fellow named Austin Carr had this honor 
two over the nine-inning dis­

placed on him). Over his career at Franciscan he had a record of tance. 
I 00-17 and he led his team to the championship this past season
While Karkut was keeping the 
wit.h a 34-7 record.

Crusaders away from the plate 
Another man from the Land of Lincoln is Gary Novak from
the ND Captain and peppery 

LaSalle-Peru High SchooL Novak, who is a top notch student
second baseman Nick Scarpelli 
besides being a great Hooper, hit for 26 ppg. and 19 rebounds. lie is
brought home the first two Irish 

6'7" and helped his alma mater to the quarter -finals of the Illinoistallies. 
state tourney. 

Scarpelli's first RBI came in The third member of this grpup is 6'6" Greg Schmelzer from the top of the third inning when Maine South High School in Park Ridge. He was a unanimous Tom O'Connor and Rob Voitier Chicago area all-star after averaging 18 points and IS rebounds per reached on Valpo fielding errors· game. His team was also a winner in schoolboy ball with a 24--3 and Scarpelli hit a two out single slate and a berth in the "sweet sixteen". to plate O'Connor. Ken Wolbeck won't even bother changing his team's nickname. He 
In the fifth Scarpelli drove was a standout at Spaulding High School of Peoria, IJI. who are also home O'Connor again. O'Connor the Irish. The 6'7" Wolbeck shot for 2! points and 13 rebounds each had led off the inning by rapping time Spaulding took the floor. Described by an opposing coach as "a a single, moved to second on tremendous college prospect", Wolbeck led his team to the final four Karkut's sacrifice bunt and in the state tourney. scored on Scarpelli's safety. The recruiting season wouldn't truly sound successful for Johnny 
Dee unless he grabbed someone from the Washington D.C. area. The 
The final two Irish markers package that he received from the nation's capitol this time was came in the seventh inning and Chris Stevens, a 6'6" honor student from St. John's College High were a "gift" of Valpo pitcher (Collis Jones' old high school). Stevens displayed an accurate Tim Juran. Juran had relieved , shooti;1g touch as he hit on better than fifty percent of his field Crusader starter Jack Pettit in goal attempts for 17 points and hauled in rebounds at a level of IS the sixth inning, with Valpo per game. He was voted all--Catholic in Wahington D.C. and, from trailing 2-0. O'Conner once again what is known of all-Catholic D.C. selections at ND, that says led off with a single to open the enough. seventh. Karkut followed him The final prospective athlete that will be at South Bend for with a single and, when Rob certain next year will come from the South. He is Bob Valibus a Voitier reached base on a Valpo 6'3" guard who played at Carol City High. Although he averaged error, the Irish had the bases only 16 ppg., he was offered a scholarship at South Carolina so he filled with no one out. Juran must have something. That something is an uncanny ability to find fanned Scarpelli for the first out open men for shots. He makes an offenst: click. 
but was guilty of the miscue that Possibly the best of all the recruits (which is saying quite a lot) is brought in the two Irish tallies a man who hasn't been signed. He is John Shumate a 6'8" leaper when, with Joe Keenan at the from Elizabeth, New Jersey (Tom Sinnett's home town). Shumate plate after Scarpelli, Juran field­can do it alL He scored at a 28 point clip and swept the boards for ed Keenan's hard shot to the 20 rebounds per game. Add seven blocked shots per contest and you mound and then threw the ball have a good picture of what Mr. Shumate can do. The problem nowCaptain Nick Scarpelli.had two hits in the Irish victory over into center field allowing O'Con­is to sign this promising performer. The funny thing about this isValpo on Tuesday. The senior second baseman knocked in two big ner and Karkut to score. Juran that Dee is not battling his traditional recruiting rivals (i.e. Rupp,runs in his last regular season contest for Notre Dame. Scarpelli and managed to work out of the both McGuires or John Wooden) for the rights to Shumate. Thethe other members of the squad ace hopeful that their performance inning without any further scor­Jersey star has already refused these schools. The choice is betweenin the second half of the season has merited them a berth in the 
ing. the Dome or Hampton Institute, a black college in Virginia. Shumate~CAA Midwest Regional. Bids come out on Monday. 
will disclose his choice this evening and NO fans should keep their
Leading the Irish offense, 

fingers crossed One other man who might attend du Lac come
which supplied Karkut with nine 

next autumn is a giant Californian (San Diego) named Bill Walton.
base-hits, were O'Conner, with




MAJOR· LEAGUES 
Walton is 6' II" and he just might fit in nicely with this freshman
three singles, and Scarpelli, who 

NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE class. He hasn't acknowledged where he plans to attend school next
had a pair of hits. 
East East year but Dee has kept right in the middle of the battle over this
Seniors playing in their last 

w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB imposing figure. 
regular season game for the Irish 

Chicago 18 16 .529 *Baltimore 25 10 .714 Notre Dame has scheduled nothing but the best competition for 
y, were Karkut, Scarpelli, catcher
New York 19 .514 20 18 .526 6%
18 New York the next few seasons and Dee had to come through with high quality 
Joe Keenan, center fielder Rich

St. Louis 18 17 .514 y, Boston 16 18 .471 8% 
ball players and lots of them. He feels that he did. "We took some of
*Pittsburgh 17 21 .447 3 *Detroit 15 17 .469 8% Lucke, first baseball Bill Orga 
the best out of each section of the country and believe it or not our
*Philadelphia 14 22 .389 5 Washington 16 20 .444 9% and right fielder Rob Voitier. 
schedule helped us here. These boys Jove to go back home
Montreal 14 22 .389 5 Cleveland 12 20 .375 11 y, Also graduating are three pitch­and impress the folks and since we play all over the country there is
ers who did not see action Tues­

no problem finding recruits from these sections."
day, Bob Jaeger, Jim Phel;)s and 

West West Oh, and by the way, in case you were wondering about the
Denny Curran. Coach Jake Kline 

Cincinnati 28 11 .718 *Minnesota 24 10 .706 phenom from Pennsylvania, Tom McMillan (Sports Illustrated cover
was most satisfied with the play

.595 California
*Los Angeles 22 15 5 25 13 .658 boy), it seems that he is ready to pick that "Eastern school with a
of these seniors, and with that of

Atlanta 21 16 .568 6 *Oakland 18 19 .486 7% 
fine pre-med. program," Kentucky. Notre Dame wasn't even in his 
Houston 19 Chicago the team as a whole. lie was
21 .475 8% 16 21 .432 9% 
mind during all the recruiting wars over him. Although he hasn't
San Fran. 18 22 .450 10% *Kansas City 13 23 .361 12 justifiably proud of the overall signed anything official it appears that tht: "Baron" (Adolf Rupp)
*San Diego 17 24 .415 12 *Milwaukee 12 23 .343 12% performance this season and of 
has landed himself another prize.
the pride and spirit that the club 
showed in bouncing back from a 

Chicago 3 California 2 
1-1 0 start to their final 16-12

Atlanta 6 San Francisco 1 Cleveland 7 Boston 2
Montreal 2 New York 0 slate. 
Washington 2 New York 0St. Louis 3 Houston 2 
Detroit 4 Baltimore 0, 9th inn. Tht: Irish now must await the
Philadelphia 2 Pittsburgh 2, 13th inn. 
Minnesota 7 Kansas City 4, 9th inn. NCAA's dt:cision on tht: tourna­
Los Angeles at San Diego, night Milwaukee 5 
Oakland 4, 7th inn. mt:nt bids, to be announced Monday. 




