
V· 
CO: faith,hope,fear,and 'the shrinking man' 
by Dave Lammers Our generation has grown up in fear, and we
diversity of beliefs and life styles that
The purpose of these six articles is to have been told that we must contribute to this fear 
conscientious objection can include have not been
"demythologize" the concept of conscientious producing system like "responsible men." We have 
illuminated on a wide scale. These articles are an
objection, to present that alternative to military only to look around as (and into ourselves) to 
attempt to explain the recent expansion of the
service as a valid expression of the beliefs ofmany realize that our century is "the century of fear," as
meaning of conscientious objection and secondly 
Notre Dame students. conscientious objectors Camus called it, and that our world is populated
to provide the irfformation necessary for a Notre
represent about one-tenth of one percent of those by the "shrinking man," as Gandhi said. Our 
Dame student considering conscientious objection arm
liable to military service. Their lack of nation responds to this fear in lockstep; we 
n.v a valid expression ofhis beljefs. ­
sensationalism, small numbers, and the policy of ourselves againt fear, we at~mpt to. love and the government (General Hershey: "The There seems to be present in our generation a become human in spite of fear's continual grip, we conscientious objector by my theory is best certain despair based on the assurance that man find solace in the fact that we are insanely rushing handled if no one hears of him.") have shrouded will always have war, that we must be "realistic" over the edge according to the inevitable, 
and face the fact that we must put in our two
the meaning of conscientious objection. Many still inexorable, unchangeable will of History. 
years time to the
associate conscientious objection with the beard of kiJJing preserve peace. Some of our fellows realize that life will not and buggy of those religious people that were Conscientious objection is viewed as naivete, a long continue unless we deny this silence, born. of forbade by their God to participate in war. seeming inability to see "the obvious": that men fear a hold over our lives. MilnY psychologtsts 
Many students are not aware of the new of honor must preserve their nation by force of reali~e that for a man to be made whole, for a man 
arms.
Interpretations that the courts have given to the to realize his potential humanness, for a man to 
C.O. law, they do not know how to apply or what This viewpoint sees man as a prisoner of his base his life on love insteac} of fear, he must first 
violent nature; bound by history to live in fear of
to do once they have decided that it is against (continued on,page '2)
the evil that man is capable of. 
their deepest beliefs to kill in a war situation. The 
,MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1970 
Goodman hits education 
refore are "copping out." Very little goes on here that by Rich Smith "The school system should doesn't go on in the sixth Author-critic Paul Goodman largely be dismantled, not re-grade." called for the abolition of high formed. Elementary schools Goodman termed the system schools the complete should be run on an entirely as "the academic life." He said it restructuring of elementary different principle. And pal€es consisted in "abstractions." 
schoo!s and the dismantling of · like this should be one-fifth to "The schools abstracts from the present college set-up' one-tenti of this size. The the world's arts, sciences, crafts, before a capacity audience last reformers just can't face the fa~t and professions something called 
-·:.~ 
night at the library auditorium. that the whole instil uti on IS the curriculum. Then they 
Godman began his lecture by inauthentic," he said. further abstract a text book. ddending David Dellinger, Citing a 1965 study concern-Then they for the most part get member of the Chicago Seven ing the effect of school perform-an abstract kind of person, not a accused of contempt and ance and professi.onal com-professional, but a person skilled conspiracy. Callfng petenct~, covermg most at teaching from the textbook "inconceivable" that Dellinger professions, Goodman said that and theory. The result is not a could have conspired to inspire a it was found that "there was no professional in the world but a ) riot, Godman said corelation betwet•n the two.. The teacher of the profession, out of 
Goodman: '"The school system should largely·'David's whole disposition is corelation was nothing. That is it the world. (cont. p. 2) be dismantled, not rlfformed." 
too wol it. lie has cooled more made no difference if you were trouble, 1 think, thatn most an A student or a D student. If people. Not because he's afraid, you were an F student, you 
Lamb to be napalmed this week 
but simply. because he doesn't didn't get a diploma or a license. think it m·akes' much political There was a perfect corllation. by Dave Lammers sense." In any profession, my guess is if 
Riehle, the Dean of Students. sponsibility because he has Q~en
A group of ·Notre Dame 
Regarding the contempt of you did not require the diploma According to one of the efficient in doing his lit tie job in
students intend to napalm a 
students involved in organizing the massive corporate operation. 
court charge, Goodman or license, it wouldn't make any lamb on 
Wednesday, February 
Thus for the employees of Dowcommented: "His disposition as difference if you never went to the demonstration Dow Chemi­
18, at 12:30 p.m., in front of 
a disciple of aggressive civil college." cal and Honeywell have been and lloneywell which make
the steps of the Administration 
disobedience is to object when singled out because of "their napalm and anti-personell bombs
Building. The students are 
there is a prodecural injustice. Goodman compared the demonstrating agains the pres­complicity with the forces of for use in Vietnam, North 
schools of his student days with Vietnamese are not people -they
This is something we all praise in death." The student further
recruiters Dow 
Birmingham and Selma." , present, sayding, "The schools ence of from stated that "the big business of are things or numbers."
Chemical Corporation and 
Goodman then launched his now have a fantastic horno­death is seen as innocent because The students said that the real 
Honeywell Corporation. The 
attack upon the present educa­genousness between the elemen­it involves a long chain of war crimes are being committed 
demons~ation has been 
tional system, saying that tary school, the high school, the individuals each of whom can in the offices of corporations
officially registered with Father 
present advocates college and the graduate school. feel himself absolved from re-like Dow and Honeywell.
of academic "Because Notre Dame allows these corporations to recruit on



Diverse views on McKenna's 

campus it too is doing its "little 'ob" in the massive corporate by Glen Corso pperation. The Administration has taken a stand affirming
of productivity, I more than any in the past (eg. more time talking to people. He
SBP Phil McKenna, SBVP "In terms 'genocide' in Vietnam. Father
also said that the Dow-CIA

can the a
Fred Dedrick, Senators Thrasher think it be stated that this beginnings of realistic Hesburgh's recent statement that
controversy had shown him theadministration accomplished approach to coeducation,

and Glufridda, and ex-Senators Dow-CIA issue is "as dead as the
amount of mistrust that exists in 

obvious changes in academic
Hunter and McCartin issued do-do bird" is totally unaccept­
'the University, and that in the

curriculum, a successful minori­
widely divergent comments con-able in an institution which 
. cerning their feelings on the ty recruitment drive, black con­time remammg he would claims to be Christian. By"explore and suggest alternative
centrations, resolution of the
success or failure of the Mc­legitamizing the presence of
methods of solving our con­

Juggler . crisis, increased hall
Kenna administration. Dow and other corporations of
flicts."

self-government, a more personal
McKenna's statement, for the death Notre Dame is giving false
Tom Thrasher, stay senator,

Freshman Orientation project,
most part, was optimistic. He rather indict­to the spirit
said that "two goals were set for creation of an Ombudsman post, had a blisterind witness of Christ. 
ment of the McKenna admini­There is no hope of Notre Damereorganization of

our administration: I) to begin the Senate,· .stration. moving the direction of a
representation of the Board of
to create and sustain an atmo­a "The basic failure of Student Christian community until we
Trustees committee and new
sphere consistent with he life of' Government' and the fault that stop blessing and canonizing this 
concern for racism and financial
Jesus Christ and antithical to the has had the most far reaching pure violence of corporatelystability, etc.)" he said. 
depersonalization that permeates on said effect was the government's organized murder simply
McKenna went and

Notre Dame presently; 2) to inability to make the great because it is respectable, effici­
that he felt that he had failed in 
initiate and pursue changes that majority of ·Notre Dame. stu­ent, and profitable."
can be immediately and realisti­"not making himself more dents feel that the leaders over The group of students organi­cally related to the above philo­available to this constituents," ~ing the protest chose the lambsophy." and that n.e should have spent (continued on page 7) · .Jecause it is a symbolic f~ure of 


PAGE 2 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1970
THE OBSERflllt 

Conscientious Objection as an alternative 
(continued from page 1) 

decide that human life is inviolable, that as a minimum standard we must respect the right of men Jo live. A man not rowed by fear rnus! decide that he can never place himself in the position of being ordereQ to drop a bomb on a city, or to destroy a horne witlf a flamethrower, or a man with a bullet. A man who knows what it means to be human, to love and be loved, knows in the depth of his being that he cannot contribute to the dehumanizing process that prepares the pscyhe for  political system that is basically immoral: might makes right. The hope and trust and confidence· and patience and activism of Gandhi, King, Dan and Phil Berrigan, David Dellinger, and others, is many times crushed by the power structure and despised by the common man of fear as "wishful thinking." We must d.eny the sword its fantasized potency to acquire happiness, love, and security for those that wield it, for they that wield the sword not only die by the sword, but their daily lives are  Dellinger and Dan Berrigan are not cowards, and that the conscientious objector, through his totat stand against violence, stands somewhat alone and requires much courage. And what the century of fear requires is men of courage, men willing to make an intense effort to live a positive existence in the face of the present resignation and despair, men willing to take the first step. In the United States, conscientious objection within the law is one means of expressing the moral and ethical commitment against violence.  
the destructive  act  by transforming people into  made impotent by the fear-producing knowledge  
commies, gooks, japs, and niggers. The burden of  that the sword is daily hanging over our heads.  
the  man  who has  so  committed himself is that  By denying  war  and 'violence the ability to:o­ 
through  his  life  he  must  attempt  to  humanize  achieve  peace,  the  argument that  the proposed  
people  who  view themselves as  mere  pawns off  end, (peace, happiness, security) can be achieved  It may seem that such an ethical, political, and  
:fustory that must kill in order to keep from being  through  certain unpleasant yet  necessary  means  moral viewpoint to the question of war would not  
killed.  (limited  war  and  the  threat  of  nuclear  ·an­ be allowed expression unde; the present selective  
This faith in the innate goodness of every man  nhialation) is exposed as false. For the ends are the  service law regarding 'conscientious objection. The  
requires  a  willingness  to  take  the  risks that are  means in an ever ongoing process; the means are  wording  of  the  law  reflects  the  history  of  
inherent ·in love.  To transform  desensitized and  the ends in embryo. We can b\corne men of peace  conscientious objection as  a protection for those  
dehumanized men involves a willingness to accept  and love rather than men of war and fear because  opposed  to  war  on  religious  grounds.  The  
suffering and the conscientious object realizes the  we, not the state, control the day to day actions of  applicant's objection, according to the law, must  
possible consequences of his actions and belief.  our live~;;  we, not some blind, preterrnined force,  be based upon his belief in a Supreme Being and  
control  our  personal, natural, and international  his religious training and beliefs. The law excludes  
The "political naivete" that our Machiavellian  history.  p\}rely  political, sociological,  or  personal beliefs  
leaders ascribe to conscientious objectors is based  Such  a  man  was  Albert Camus, who said in  about war.  .  .  .  
on their lack of faith in the ability of men to be  194 7  in his essay  "Neither Victims  nor  Execu­ But recent decisions in the higher courts have,  
transformed through suffering to love and truth.  tioners"  given a iiberal interpretation to the Supreme Being  
The  "political  naivete"  of  the  conscientious  "For ~y part, I am fairly sure that I have made  concept so  that Tillich's concept of the Supreme 
objector  is  the  awareness  that  we  cannot  have  the choice. And, having chosen, I think that I must  Being  as  the deepest part of a  person's being is  
international  intercommunication  among  men  speak out, that I must state that I will never again  acceptable. In a  1.967 Supreme Court  case  three  
until fear is denied its hold and we are wilFng to  be  one  of  those,  whoever  they  be,  who  persons were granted a CO classificatio11; that were  
take the risk and the suffering inherent in love  compromise with murder, and that I must take the  agnostic or skeptical about the existence of God,  
upon  ourselves.  The  "political  naivete"  of the  consequences  of such  a  decision.  The  thing is  but  the  court  held  that  their  deeply  held  and  
conscientious objector is ascribed to his effort to  done, and that is as far as I can go at present."  sincere· beliefs  about  war  constituted  "religious  
put1 personal  ethics,  personal  morality,  into  :t  I think  we  all  sense  that  men  such  as  David  beliefs" for these people.  

GSU head supports Hesburgh High school abolition
. 
-

by Bro. Patrick Carney 
During an interview last night, . who is as capable as Fr. ivities outside of the University, 

proposed by Goodman 
Graduate Student Union presi­Hesburgh." it was j)()inted out, are actually dent Jim King announced that With regard to the argument serving Notre Dame students--as (continued from page 1) he would propose a resolution of that the university's president is .well as college students through­.. They take the students and which showed that there was no 
support for Fr. Theodore away from Notre Dame often, Hesburgh to remain in the King pointed out that in his position of President of the 
opinion Fr. Hesburgh more thanUniversity at the next G.S.U. 

makes up for this in the fact that meeting. 

he has excellent contact withAlthough he did not mention students when he is here. 

any of the other people whose When questioned with regard names have been suggested for to the proposal to make Fr. 
that post, King merely said that Hesburgh cha~llor, King re­he knows "of no administrator 

plied " The appointment of chancellor is an attempt of

JOBS! JOBS! and more JOBS! Stu· dents, Teachers. Stateside and Inter· 
rnoviRg the man into a position 

national Jobs. Recreational Jobs: 
where you'll give him a title but 

Year-round Jobs; Summer Jobs. All o<;cupations and trades. Enjoy a vaca­
effectively reduce his ability to 

tion while you earn. Hurry! The best 
function effectively as an adrniQ­

jobs are taken early. Write: "JOBS", 
istrator.

P.O. Box 475, Dept. CP 163-1. Lodi, Calif. 95240 
Much of Fr. Hesburgh.'s act-

Lothar Gagenshotz unchained friend of the 400 lb. rabbit and intimate associate ofFernando Poo, endorses the Om­budsman Service. So What? 'I 
-• • we I listen 7638 Mon-Fri 1-3 Mon-Thurs 6:30-7:30 

Date __F_e_;b..;..._1_7.:...,.:_18.....:'_;1:..;.9..!.,..::2...::.0_____ Place __C_o_n_t_a_c_t_P.:...la_c_e_m_e_n_t:_O.::..::ffi:.:•..:..ce;;,.___ 
corelation between having a highout the country.. Besides the freeze them and cut them into school diploma and not havingobvious educational committees, departments so that the nine to one in terms of future occupa­Fr. Hesburgh's work on abolish­ten hctur is algebra, the ten to 
ing the draft and work for tio~. "It took twenty seconds
eleven hour is French, and so 
for one guy to learn how tominorities on the Civil Rights on. 
measure. Not eight years ofCommission were cited. Maybe the worst part is that grammar school and four years.

they arrllfige this in graded steps. 
of high school." 
We all know that no one ever
Summing up the position he learns this way." 
will plesent,King called attention: Goodman said that the pre­to all the progressive changes In maintaining the institution sent method originated in the which have. taken place on the1 of learning, certain rationaliza­seventh century when Irish campus under Fr. Hesburgh's tions have been employed, monks used the method to teach administration. "Any student according to the lecturer. "The "wild shepherds" "It was a who looked at the historical first, used particularly by fantastic invention. It was more situation when Hesburgh carne Catholics, is that you need to important than he steam engine in," King said,"should see that train your intellectual faculties. which began the Industrial although it was a fine university My experience as a parent and Revolution. Remember that before that time, has seen its real psychologist is that there is schooling is the biggest single rise to greatness under his nothing in this whatever. This is industry in the country. Bigger 
entirely delusory," commented than the military-industrial."
leadership." 
Goodman. The reason behind the system, A second rationalization used according to Godman, was that to justify the system, is the the monks had to introduce an 
In addition, he said that bieng "theory of development of "entirely foreign culture" to the a capable executive does not intellectual faculties, developed shepherds.
demand being constantly pre­
by Piaget." 
sent. This is why the university has an executive vice-president. Goodman claimed that the In short, he made the point that 
only way to slow down the Notre Dame is run with a certain 
learning process "is to teach it in principle of subsidiarity which school. This makes bad readers. leaves men in the various depart­If you did notheing, the child 
ments a relatively free hand in would learn to read.". running matters within their A rationalization used to keep own domain. Those who op­the disadvantaged youths in 
posed this seem to feel that schools is "the theory of func­everything should be decided tiionalliteracy." from above. Goodman cited a Columbia 
University professor's studey 
SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 

Presents 
''WAIT UNTIL DARK' 
WashinJ!ton Hall 7:00 & 9:00 
Mon. Feb. 16 & Tues. Feb. 17 $1.00 Admission 
"They decided that the 
briefing method would be best. 
If you want to learn nonsense 
syllables, the rote method is far 
superior. It was pretty good for 
the wild shepherds," he said. 
Godman concluded his talk 
by presenting several alternative 
to the present system. He called 
high school "the most useless 
part," and advocted its abolish­
ment except for the "one or two 
percent academically inclined." 
In place of high school, 
Goodman would "substitute 
what fits adolescence. The stu­
dent would learn only in activi­
ties that are for real. He would 
have the ability to search for his identity." 
Citing European education as an example, Goodman advoca­ted going into a profession before entry into college, with a subsequent return to school for what learning is required by profession. 

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
PAGE 3

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1970 7H8 O.&rERVER. 
•




Grad student ISSUeS looked into by GSU 
by Bro. Patrick Carney 
Although the entire Graduate In the final bit of old ants which has been the source
that people who opposed the less than the 16% who voted 
Student Union did not meet last action would be more likely to against it. The G.S.U. will send business, the president related of much confusion since Sept­that he had contacted the ember.
week, the group was active as turn in their ·ballots than those envelopes to those who were both the president and the. in favor, he feels that the missed at registration or who did bookstore for a clarification of the discount for teaching assist-
various committees have been percentage of graduate students not have the money with them following up suggestions present­who were against the move i~ far at the time. ed at the February 6 meeting 
A turned down petition which had been submitted by the residents of University Village 
earlier, has been resubmitted to the Vice-president's Council with the backing of the G.S.U. This concerns the possibility of shuttle bus service to the Vilage. This proposal received almost 
unanimous support at the Grad­uate Student Council. 
.. It has been discovered that the basic problems here are the tight schedule under which the buses run and the fact that support comes from both Notre Dame and St Mary's. However, Jim King, G.S.U. president has been assured that the matter will he reconsidered. 
Still on the subject of housing for graduate students, a housing committee is being set up within the organization to study the possibility of dorms for them on campus. In the near future, it will initiate a campus-wide sur­vey to see just how the majority of the interested parties would like to have this done. 
Another committee which is making a study of service and cost in the pay cafeteria is reported to be very active in their study and will have a report in the ncar future. 
Un the subject of financial matters, the recent referendum showed 84% of those who returned ballots being in favor of the $1 per semester fee which was collected at registration. King pointed out that since the ballot was worded in such a way 
Venture: Seven minutes to save a life. 
The problem: lifesaving clinlcal Separate packs-made of a chem­for each sample. The Instrument is tests of blood, urine and spinal Ically inert, optically clear plastic­capable of handling, 30 different fluid may take technicians hours to are designed for a variety of tests. tests, the chemistry procedures for 
Hall elections 
Three candidates were un­opposed and a tourth won by 
perform using traditional methods. And each pack is supplied with a ten of which have already been 
binary code to instruct the analyzer. developed. The first test result is
ten votes in Cavanaugh Hall 
The possible solution: design a 
elections held February the 
virtually complete chemical labora­Packs for certain tests also contain ready in about seven minutes. And 
twelfth. 
tory in a desk-sized cabinet that Individual disposable chroma­in continuous operation, successive 
The presidential -vice-pres­
will perform a variety of clinical tests tographic columns to isolate spe­test results are obtained every 35 
idential slate of Mike Nevens and 
automatically, accurately, quickly. cific constituents or molecular to 70 seconds, depending on the 
Ed Charbonnet won easily over 
weight fractions on the sample. type of test.
The result: Du Pont's Automatic
scattered opposition. Nevens, a 
Clinical Analyzer, the end-product In operation, the analyzer auto­Innovation-applying the known
Junior from Springfifield, 
of years of cooperation and problem matically injects the sample and to discover the unknown, inventing 
Illinois, and Charbonnet, a New 
Orleans Junior, collected eigh­
solving among engineering physi­diluent into each pack, mixes the new materials and putting them to 
ty-three votes. There were 
cists, biochemists, electromechan­reagents, waits a preset time for work, using research and engineer­
twenty-five write-ins, but no one 
ical designers, computer specialists the reaction, then forms a precise ing to create the ideas and products 
write-in collected as many· as ten 
and many, many others. optical cell within the walls of the of the future-this is the venture 
votes. 
transparent pack and measures the Du Pont people are engaged in.
The heart of the instrument Is a reaction photometrically.
Ken Burda, a freshman from 
Grand Rapids, Michigan, took 
transparent, postcard-sized reagent For a variety of career opportu­
secretarial race with eighty votes 
packet that functions as a reaction A built-in solid-state computer nities, and a chance to advance 
to twenty-eight combined votes 
chamber and optical cell for a monitors the operation, calculates through many fields, talk to your
for write-ins. 
computer-controlled analysis of the concentration value for each Du Pont Recruiter. Or send the 
In the only contested elect­
specimens. test and prints out a report sheet coupon.
ion, Junior Steve Fox outdis­tanced Freshman Dick 
r----------------------------------,
McCarthy, to become 
Du Pont Company, Room 7894, Wilmington, DE 19898 
Cavanaugh's treasurer. Fox, 
Please send me the booklets checked below.
from Trenton, New Jersey, col­
D Chemical Engineers at DuPont
lected fifty votes to fourty for 
D Mechanical Engineers at Du Pont
McCarthy, who comes from 
D Engineers at Du Pont
Lynchburgh, Virginia. 
D Accounting, Data Systems, Marketing, Production 
Nevens succeeded incumbant 
~am,
a_______________________________ 
Steve Durako, a Springfield, Jllinois, Sophomore. 
University•-------------------------­
Degree___________Graduatlon Date,____ 
Address•---------------------------­Ventures for better living. 
City State lp.___ An Equal Opportunity Employer (M/F) 
L----------------------------------~ 


PAGE4 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1970 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Editorial 

The university's purpose 
As complicity week opens we hope that everyone will embark on a profound examination of what the university's relationship to the business and government sectors should be as well as an examination of his relationship to the rest of the Nore Dame community. 
Some serious questions have been raised over the last few years at colleges and universities throughout America. Is the Unversity truly a place of learning, a seat of wisdom or merely a knowledge factory? Why must a student attend college; for social acceptance, to get a good job, or to broaden his perspective, to learn of all that was, with a sight on that which should be? 
The astounding growth of universities has paralleled that of society. To handle more students they have had to become more efficient. Procedural policies became the prerogative of the computer. Students were given numbers so that the computer would know them and administrators were given offices away from the students so that they would have the time to write the letters that the computer couldn't or raise the money that the.y would need for survival. Expansion became the name of the game because if you didn't grow you couldn't be a great university. 
Ideas used to be at a premium at an institution of higher learning. They 
still  are  to  some  degree.  But  a  lot  of the  truly human ideas and  the  
imaginative  concepts  have  been  stifled  by  the  impersonalization  and  
never-ending quest for growth.  

Of course the business community was very much wrapped up in it all. In a growing economy education is always "worth it" just to get ahead. But when you are already "ahead" then what do you do-then why do you go to college? 
Our universities became very tied up with the economic sector. They needed the money and the industries needed the personnel. No one desired to deny the tie. It was acknowledged, and accepted, and it meant something. 
Now students seem to be looking for some deeper meaning to education. They are striving for the old scholastic ideal of education for education's sake. To say that the logical sequel to college is the business world seems to taint the university and make a hypocrisy of its academic nature. 
What the CPA is asking Notre Dame to do this week is to examine its purpose -they are asking all of us to determine why we are here and in what direction we hope that the university will go. We feel that it is important for each individual and the community as a whole to answer that question. 
At the same time they are asking students to make a moral judgment about some ofthe firms that are recruiting here. It was in that moral search that students blocked the door to the Dow recruiter in November. We hope that we do not see a repeat of that incident. To ask individuals to make a m·oral judgment is valid but to try to force your moral judgment upon them is wrong. 
We hope that every member of the community realizes that. We ask students who will be demonstra\ing in the Placement office this week to respect the rights of others -to stand firmly for the right of free speech by all sides, and to protect the right of free inquiry and open recruiting. 
At the same time we ask all members of the community to acknowledge the questions that they are raising ~.nd to try to answer them for themselves. 
That is the most that anyone can ask. We hope that those arrogant members of both the right' and left will come to realize what our goal should be and will not attempt to confront anyone with force -for such a line of action would be stupid to say the least. 

1)€ mlnute mof'f!l.,c!k dJld cliok!_d c:AHd trtjJped /Jut dzdJt t JalZ '"0llf3 mzJUtte JJ{f}Te iSdll_Ij;ot 
toget to kjfcmsflaJZ! '' 
~Pie lard tieJtt close tJ· t!le creai:J_ Jtj door. fuarct tkHr _loci( tM ftlte. J1)/iu.; C(le{i 
letJJt£ zJV/ 



l.etters to the -Editor 
Disclaimer 

Editor: 
Please allow me to correct a report in today's Observer which referred to me as a "CPA member." I am not a member of CPA, nor have I ever been·. I participated in the research and publication team that produced the booklet, "Misplacement at Notre Dame," which was the subject of my report of the CPA Meeting of February II, as a member of the New University Conference, a national organization of radical faculty and graduate students. Part of NUC's 1969-70 program in­cludes research and educational efforts on the role that corpora­tions play in American academic and political liU!; as part of this program NUC will distribute the Notre Dame booklet nation­ally as a model for student­faculty research groups on other campuses. 
I take the trouble to correct this report not because I have any anxieties about being identi­fied with CPA, but because I do not wish to lend credence to the comforting illusion that behind every student initiative lies some form of faculty or administrative manipulation_ 
Sincerely, 
John A. Williams 
Assistant Professor 
History 
Lincoln a Racist? 
Editor: 

On this feast day of St. Lin­coln I wonder how many people know who really was the 16th 
president of the United States? 
The Chicago Tribune says that 
"He had a keen sense of justice", 
people in general believe him to 
be the "great man who freed the 
slaves." 
When will people be taught the trugh and not propagandized into believing the "Great Ameri­can Past." Lincoln undoubtedly was a strong president who forced the confederacy to return to the union and thereby kept the country united. 
However, how many of the 12-15 million black people are celebrating his birthday when they know he was a racist white supremist? These people know the truth about Lincoln because they haves to, this was their background in life_ White people have no necessity to learn the truths of America's past . and 

therefore  are  content  to  hear  
only  the  "good"  things  that  
America has done.  

Oh when, oh when will the truth prevail. 
Larry Overlan 
1233 Notre Dame 
Cosmic Cohorts 
Howdy Observer-

That guy, Tom Bornholdt, sure draws funny analogies. Be­sides assuming that Neville Chamberlain can both sing and forget his raincoat, he also assumes that Adolph Hitler and Ho Chi Minh are cosmic cohorts. They are not. He seems to assume that Czechoslavakia and South Vietnam are analagous en­tities. They are not. His Yellow Peril sentiments are reduceable to garbage when one realizes that, according to China Watch­ers, there are more Chinese stu­dents at Nore Dame than there are Chinese soldiers outside of China. Meanwhile more than a million American soldiers en­circle China. 
Sure the Noth Vietnamese refuse our offers of phony peace plus strings, but if you want to draw analogies (which are 
tenuous at best) look at 1777. The British Parliament, put up­tight by possibilities of Ameri­can Victory, authorized the Carlisle commission to offer peace and concessions if onJy the rebels would revert to colo­nial status. But them bad Ameri­cans wanted Independence too 
much and, ultimately evilly offed their oppressors. So be it in Vietnam, with lotsa good old American blood, unless we really "give peace a chance." 
Take care­
Jim Leary 
331 B-P 

Layout Editor: Marrv Ellen 
Joesph Wemhoff, Business 

Burke The op1010ns in the editorials,
Manager 
Photo Editor: Mike Murphy news analyses, and columns of THE
Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. 

News Editor: Glen Corso 

Assistant News Editor: T .C. 

reflect the views of St. Mary's
College, the University of Notre
trade, Ann Conway, Jeanne Reimer, Marilyn Becker, C.P. 
Swwnay Myers 
Headlines: T.C. Treanor 
PAGE 5 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1970 
THE OBSEilfiM 

CAF finalizeS spring plans 
by Michael Cervas of agents and contracts, finds an additional company on its hands. 
The Contemporary Arts Festival has The combination of these setbacks has finalized its schedule of events for the forced Dick Roddewig, the chairman ofremainder of the year. Although the the Festival, to seriously alter some of thecalendar of events for the Spring semester original goals and projects of CAF, which is indeed a formidable one, the Festival in a year long format for the first timehas suffered several severe repurcussions since its inception had planned to presentdue to financial difficulties. The the campus with as many quality eventsAdministration, which had originally as possible.
promised the Festival $3,000, has failed The one bright aspect of. the Festival to appropriate any money for CAF. The this year, which as Roddewig points outchaotic financial situation of the "makes it all worthwhile," is theUniversity itself is reputed to be the cause remarkable and pleasingly unexpectedof the administration's complete lack of student interest in contemporary culture. 
support. 
The attendance at all of CAF's events hasThe Student Senate, in order to surpassed the expectations of any of thebalance its distraught budget, has Festival's staff members. Genesis II, forinvoluntarily dealt a serious blow to the example, played to capacity crowds for arts on campus and to the future of the all four of its performances, indicatingcultural festival itself. In addition, the both a student interest in the arts, inIndiana Arts Council has found it curtly general, and an appreciation of modern"impossible at this time" to grant the experimental methods of film making.
Contemporary Arts Festival an endowment thereby further curtailing the The next CAF event is the screening of Festival's ability tq disseminate a Claude Lelouche's film, To Be a Crook, balanced survey of the best of the on this Friday, February 20 in the modern arts on campus this year. Engineering Auditorium. In this tragic 
Finally, a small grant from the (yet comic)_film by the man who directed 
National Endowment for the Arts has· A Man and A Woman Lelouche makes forced CAF to accept the additional powerful statement about the philosophy financial burden of two three-day of non-violence in the world today. residencies of modern dance companies. On the following evening, Saturday, The Festival originally planned to present February 21, the American Brass Quintet, only the Murray Louis Dance Company, one of the foremost contemporary but through the intricacies and abiguities chamber music groups in America, will 
·~::~:~:!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-;::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::­
\~l Kathy Carbine · ll~ I I 
llil 

~ SparkiYDiamonds J ~ 
As sparkly diamonds proliferate on the If they don't feel that their students will 
left hands of St. Mary's women, so continue such investigation after mar­
increases the volume of intimations that riage, and most of their students marry, 
these st_udents are lost to the intellectual perhaps they should look more closely at 
community forever. The faculty member their courses. 
who responds with sincere gladness to the The school could help students think news that one of his students is getting about their future lives in several ways. married is not in the majority-a more An obvious approach would be to encour­common reaction is that all that educa-age older, married women from South tion will now be wasted on diapers and Bend to enroll for a course or two, or to dishes. come back to school full time. There are That concern is a valid one. But it is lots of good points for the women them-not heing channelled constructively. selves, but certainly the average students Of the girls who graduate from St. would benefit from an opportunity to see 
the influences marriage and a family haveMary's, over half arc married within the on the thinking of women in their classes, year, to say nothing of the numbers that to get to know women who have success­leave before graduation and get married. 
fully kept their minds active while coping Definite and continued involvement with with the responsibility of a family, toacademia is not going to be part of the become aware of the conflict they willlives of many SMC graduates. 
face between immersion in the immediate 
But certainly' this shouldn't mean that and striving for the intellectual. The 
their intellectual development will halt. It Coffeehous Scholarship, which goes ea~h 
might. The life of a family requires much year to someone that will bring a dif­
involvement in immediate, physical con-ferent background and viewpoint to the 
~erns gr~cery s~opping, cleaning, coo~-College, includes as one of the possible 
mg, feedmg babies. If a woman doesn t categories a married South Bend "d t 
I. ·t d d 't res1 en . 
. step above these Iml e concerns, oesn That shows a recognition of the problem. 
mtcgrate all of them so that t~ey further The College could publicize itself as 
the development of love, fun, mtellectual interested in such t d t d th 
· t · h f ·f h d 't d s u en s, an en 
mtere~ m er ami · 1.Y.• 1 s e oesn rea appoint a coordinator who would help and discuss art, politics, or theology • her women select their courses familiarize nu~d will become l~ss flex.iblc, less inter-them with the registration' process, in estmg, her educatiOn w1ll to a great general overcome the usual timidity extent have been "wasted_." . . women show when thinking about going Presently, almost nothmg IS bemg done back to school after ten or twenty years 
at St. Mary's College to encourage the away. 
continuing intellectual development of its Another possible area in which the 
grau.uates who c~oose marriage. Students school could face the fact of marriage, 
don t se~~ .particularly conccrne.d about and cope with it, would be to sponsor 
the pos~1b1hty of mental sta?nat.ton, se~-speakers who are married women. Depart­
~om discuss . ways t? mamtam their ments occasionally have programs in 
mvolvement w1th learnmg once they have which alumnae come back and talk about 
left. college. ll~w oft~n do g~rls choos~ a different job opportunities for majors. 
ma~or because 1t p~ov1de~ an mt~o~uctton Why not a talk on "How the Study of 
to mtercsts that will ennch their lives for Literature Makes Raising a Family More 
dccad!!s to come? Meaningful." Most SMC English majors, 
The faculty does not adequately stimu-after all, are going to raise a family. The 
late. <;o.nc~et.e thought on what to do in frustrations of educatt;d and/or career­
their diSCiplme once a student has gradu-oriented women in the role of housewife 
ated: Some . suggest b~oks .for. further would certainly be a relevant topic for a 
readmg, or Issues for mvesllgatton and speaker at St. Mary's. Even more helpful 
thougl1t. More of that attitude is needed. would be some insights into how to beat 
The faculty's prime responsibility, these frustrations, how to channel such 
though, is to inspire a spirit of curiosity· restlessness into constructive outlets. 
about their •discipline that will lead to The girls who are engaged would 
more and more learning, yes, even after really appreciate some reaction· other 
grades have been received for the course.· than cynicism. 
perform a program of Renaissance augment his lecture with demonstrations 
Baroque, and Contemporary brass music: of his more recent films. The time and place of the lecture-demonstration will be
For three days, February 26, 27, and announced at a later date. 
28, the ~urray Louis Dance Company, From Saturday April I 5 throughthe premier event of the Festival this Monday April 27, the Lucas Hovingyear, will be in residence on campus. The Dance Company will be in residence onCompany, an outgrowth of the Alwin campus. The company will illustrate theNikolais American Dance Theatre has various artistic techniques of modern
been acclaimed world-wide as one C:f the finest modern dance companies. dance. in a performance on Sunday 
even mg. These techniques willDuring March, the two principle events subsequently be analyzed and explainedwill be a folk concert, performed by in small lecture-demonstration groups. 
Tommy Flanders in Washington Hall on Then on Monday and Tuesday, AprilMarch 8, and possibly the screening of 27 and 28, CAF and SUAC combine tothe film, "The Fixer" on March 13 in present two slide lectures by the eminentWashington Hall. Flanders' style is German artist Jurgen Claus. The firstuniquely modern yet traditionally lecture will deal with emerging European subdued and gentle. "The Fixer," an 
art forms.

American film, starring Alan Bates, is the poignant study of an innocent man who is a victim of misguided justice in Czarist On Friday, May I, in Washington Hall, Russia. the Festival 1 will screen the 
On Saturday, April II, the National Czechoslovakian film, "Shop on Main Shakespeare Company, for the first time Street." On the folio wing evening, the in many years, returns to northern Swedish film, "Smiles of a Summer Indiana to perform "Macbeth" at Night," directed by lngmar Bergman, will O'Laughlin Auditorium. The National be screened in Washington Hall. Shakespeare Company consists of a group In the place of a Jazz Festival and a of today's foremost actors and actresses, Rock Concert, two major events which and, for this reason alone, deserves the had to be eliminated due to lack of funds, accolade of being 'contemporary' art. the CAF will present a Blues Festival. The 
A Man and a Woman, Lelouche makes a rational behind this juggling of events as 
Toward the end of April, Stan explained by Roddewig is as follows: "We 
Vanderbeek, the noted experimental film feel that Blues is the most neglected of 
·naker will present a lecture on the contemporary music styles on 
' d 1 f fil campus." The dates and times of the
ccntemporary methods an sty es o m 
•m•king. Vanderbeek, some of whose fe~tival have not, as yet, bee~ finali.zed. It fih,1s were screened earlier in the year at will. probably take place either m late tl:e Underground Film Festival, will also April or early May. 

N D. Bridge Club becomes natimnally affiliated 
At least twenty Notre Dame studentsThe Notre Dame Bridge Club has who began playing duplicate while her~become an American Contract Bridge on campus have gone on to becorne LifeLeague affiliated club and will award Masters, a title given to players who have rating points to approximately thirty won a sufficient number (300) of whatpercent of all the players who participate are called Master Points, including somein its duplicate tournaments beginning in top-flight competition. Undoubtedlywith the February 14, St. Valentine's the most famous of this is Jim Jacoby, aDay, tournament. This is not the first 1952 graduate, who stands ninth in theNotre Dame Bridge Club to be affiliated whole country with over 7500 Masterwith the American Contract Bridge Points. This current year he was the fifthLeague. In 1950 a similar club was most successful player, having garneredorganized under Dr. John Turley who 715 Master Points. He will be one of theretired from the faculty last year. Dr. 
6 players on the team which willTurley continues to particpate in the represent the U.S.A. in the Worldl<'aculty Duplicate Club. His place as Championship Team game at the Worldmoderator of the University-wide club Bridge Olympiad in Stockholm. Jim neverhas been taken by Father William A. 
played bridge before he
Botzum, who began playing duplicate came to Notre 
Dame, although his father Oswald Jacobyabout the time that duplicate bridge has been a leading American expert forbegan at Notre Dame, and has been a Life over 45 years.
Master for about 15 years. The present In duplicate bridge, unlike the moreNotre Dame Club was begun this year usual rubber bridge, the same individualunder the leadership of Rich Barber and hands in a deal are played as many as 13Ralph Williams. The club meets Saturday times by different players. The method ofafternoons at l: 30 in the recreation room scoring takes into account the relativeof Flanner Tower. The tournaments, performance of the players on the samedirected by Williams, last about three hands. There is therefore no such thing ashours. 
a "bad" hand, and the element of luck isThe American Contract Bridge bague sharply reduced. This tends to improveis a non-profit organization, that raises the bidding and play of the participants,each year up to $200,000 for su'"h and provides an opportunity to competecharities as the American Cancer Society, Jearn the There are
the United Heart Fund, etc. It has some and at same time. 
different types of competition possible in 150,000 dues paying members, repre­duplicate bridge. The usual form is a pairsenting a small but very active and able game, in which two persons form a teamportion for the 20,000,000 Americans and play with each other against either all who play bridge in this country. There other pairs or against half of the field, in are 6,000 duplicate bridge clubs fran­which case there are two rather than onechised by the ACBL, and 50 or more are pair of winners. Another popular type ofcollege based clubs, which are open only duplicate involves teams of four players.
when classes are in session. The League In a third form, the Individualhas actively promoted bridge on cam­tournament, each player is on his own.
puses and each year there is a collegiate All of these various kinds of play aretournament to determine · national attempted at the Notre Dame Bridgecollegiate champions. Last year 2262 Club.
players participated on I06 campuses. All The Notre Dame Club is open to allplayers on the ·local campus played hands members of the Notre Dame Community prepared by some of the leading experts including the students of St. Mary's andin the country. The top 16 pairs then Notre Dame, the faculties and staffs ofengaged in a contest at the University of the two schools and their families. ManyTennessee to determine the national of the faculty have been playing duplicate champions, a pair of male students from at the Faculty Club on Friday nights. It isRice. 
hoped that they will participate in the new club and help those who are beginning their duplicate experience. 
PAGE 6 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, ·1970 
THE OBSEilfiiR 
Lamb to be burned: Dow and Honeywell attacked 
(continued from page 1) 
innocence and helplessness in the Old Testament. The group hopes that the burning lamb will communicate the anguished yet unheard cries of tho"se who have suffered and are presently suf­fering in Vietnam. 
The student went on to comment that the "sickening smell and sight of the burning 
his lack of awareness of the . human suffering going on in Vietnam. We have no ability to sympathize with the day to day fear and suffering that the _government, in conjunction with the corporations and univer­sit;ies, is inflicting on the Viet­namese peasants. By bringing the act of death to the Notre Dame 
coercive and dramatic means." The students, after the lack of positive response after the last 'Dow-CIA demonstration, de­cided that non-coercive but dramatic actions were required to stimulate the consciences of the Notre Dame students, parti­
cularly those considereing applying for jobs with these corporations. 
"We realize the natural revul­sion that people have when an animal is burned with napalm. The death by either roasting flesh or suffocation must be a very unpleasant thing to watch . We can only hape that the people that are revolted by the death of an animal will consider the implications of non-action and silence in this matter, that people, not lambs, are being burned and bombed. 
lamb will hopefully bring stu­campus, and hopefully to the 
dents to a realization of the Notre Dame conscience, we 


Northern fighting continues 
horror of napalm when it is used hope that we can stimulate a on human beings." decision not to cooperate with "The conscience of the Notre these corporations through non-th~y. said. The fighting Sunday copter lost in the war.
SAIGON (UPI) -South Viet­
Dame student is desensitized by was the heaviest, lasting four B52 bombers 'new four raids 
namese troops and armored 
hours and taking the highest toll late Saturday and early Sunday, 
units operating in rice paddies 
of casualties. Four government the Air Force said. The strikes
alqng the northern coast killed
Israel hits Suez 
troops were killed, spokesmen were in Long Khanh province
99 communists yesterday in the 
said, in addition to the 99 about 50 miles northeast of
fourth consecutive ~ay of
their side of the canal Saturday Communists. Saigon and in Binh Dinh pro­Israeli Warplanes swept back fighting in the area.
against Israeli positions in the
into action yesterday for the government spokesmen said On the other side of the vince on the northern coast. 
first time since a controversial occupied Sinai Peninsula. The cl"tuntry, a force of government
the fighting yesterday raised tp
fighting on the Golan Heights
air raid near Cairo last Thursday 159 the number of Viet Cong troops completed a nine day Nixon vacations 
inflicted heavy losses on Egypt­erupted two miles southeast of operation along the Cambodian
and North Vietnamese troops
ian covilians. Waves.of Israeli jets Quneitra at noon, an Israeli frontier near the town of Moe
killed since Wednesday in the 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. (UPI)blasted Egyptian outposts along army spokesman said. He said Hoa, 52 miles west of Saigon.
area, about 350 miles northeast 
the Suez Canal. the Israeli patrol suffered no Government spokesmen said the -President Nixon headed back
of Saidgon near the twon of Hoi 
to wintry Washington yesterday In ground action, a Tel Aviv casualties. force, which included Cam­
An. Among the dead yesterday
communique said an Israeli The talks at the UN 6etween bodian mercenaries, killed 283 after a relaxing weekend on a
they said, were a battalion 
plush balmy island in the Britishpatrol killed an Arab guerilla in a Thant and Bull were conducted Communists in the operation
commander and a company
skirmish on Golan Heights of in secrecy and a spokesman for while taking losses of 11 dead owned Grand Bahamas.
commander. 
Syria, one of the prizes Israel Thlant declined to furnish de­and 27 wounded. During his four day sojourn
Allied officials said the Com­
won and occupied in the 1967 tails. The US command reported Nixon wrapped up his I00 page
munist forces in the area may be 
War. Thant summoned bull after yesterday that three Americans comprehensive "state of the
foraging for rice, having moved 
United Nations Secretary the Israeli air raid last Thursday were wounded when their OH6 world'. message he will transmit
into the marshy lowlands from
General Thant held crisis talks at struck a metalworks factory 13 observation helicopter was shot to Congress on Wednesday.
their usual lairs in the mountain­
UN headquarters with Gen. Od miles from Cairo, killing 70 down Saturday by Communist Nixon had a busy week ahead, 
ous area to the west.
Bull of Norway, chier of the civilians by Egyptian count. starting with a 10:30 a.m. EST
gunners 20 miles east of Said­nearly po..verless truce organiza­Israel said the raid was a mistake munists was made Wedrtesday, gon. It was the 1 ,484th heli-ceremony today in the East 
tion which has tried to keep the caused by pilot error. Room when he awards the peace along the Suez Canal. The federal government National talks were described as "fruit· Medal of Science for 1969 to six ful." outstanding physicists and chem­
First contact with the Com­

Congress to act on Carswwell 
Meanwhile, Cairo Radio ists. broadcast the complete text of Acompanied by his son-in­an interview in which Egyptian WASHINGTON (UPI)-gave in a 1948 Georgia election outlaw federally imposed busing. law David Eisenhower and his President Gamal Abdel Naser Congress returns today from a campaign, his role in converting House Rules Committee long time friedn Charles George was quoted as saying that his fiVe-day Lincoln Day recess for a a public golf course into a Chairman William M. Colmer, D "Bebe" Rebozo, Nixon took a country was pressing the Soviet week of decisions on racial issues segregated private club, his Miss., has invited Secretary 75 minute helicopter flight Sat­Union of MIG 23 fighter planes ranging from Supreme Court alleged harassment of civil rights Robert H. Finch of Health, urday to Grand Cay where he and technological aid to inter­nominee G. Harrold Carswell's lawyers and a whites only Education and Welfare to appear spent the night. cept Israeli bombers. Nasser judicial record t~ the question of covenant included in a property before the committee the same The green 250 acre island is made the points in conversations busing children in the North and sale. Carswell and his supporters day and explain HEW policies on owned by a miltimillionaire with James Reston of The New South. have denied or repudiated racism these issues. friend, Robert H. Abplanalf, the 
York Ti)lles. Action on the Carswell in each instance. Privately, even Southerners Presient of Precision Valve Corp. A dispatch from Tel Aviv said nomination was scheduled to • The busing issue faces both predicted defeat for Stennis' Nixon's host also was present at the air raids yesterday lasted 2~ begin with an expected vote of the House and Senate tomorrow his luxurious villa high on a bluff
"freedom of choice" proposal, 
hours and struck Egyptian out­approval by the Senate Judiciary with Mississippians leading a the first of nine or more overlooking. the scene. The villa posts in the northern sector of Committee despite opposition Southern offensive in both Southern amendments scheduled has been equipped with White the Suez Canal beginning at from civil rights groups and Houses. for votes this week during House communications lines and 
12:10 p.m., Mideast time. A some liberal senators. The Senate planned to vote Senate consideration of a four has a helipad to accommodate spokesman said all planes return­Foes of the Tallahassee, Fla., Tuesday on an amendment by year, $35 billion school aid bill. Nixon on his frequent vistis. 
ed to base. federal judges have accused him Sen. John C. Stennis, D Miss., to But with the support of S~n. The President spent yesterday Egyptian gunners had opened of racism and based the charge legalize "freedom of choice" 
Ab1aham Ribicoff, D Conn., and reading and riding around the up with heavy barrages from on a white supremacy speech he school assignment plans and what amounted to an island in a cart with 

Think SMC hasn't been getting enough coverage? 
Want to do something about if? 
Join the Observer Staff as a Feature's writer, News writer or Columnist. If you've got something to say the Observer is the place to say it. 
golf 

endorsement from President Rebozo. Young Eisenhower 
Nixon, Stennis held higher hopes broke away to go deep sea 
for another amendment. fishing. 
It would order equal Mrs. Nixon and daughter Julie 
enforcement of school Eisenhower remained behind to 
desegregation laws nationwide, take care of the Nixons' other 
regardless of whether the daughter Tricia, 23, as she 
segregation was caused by law, recuperates from a siege of the 
as under the South's old system, measles. 
or by population patterns, as in Nixon presented his wife and 
Northern cities. daughters with red heart boxes 
of candy on Valentine's Day. 



Parietal discussion 
The Student Life Council is respect the rights of their fellow scheduled to act on a report on students." Parietal hours from the Hall Life The report was written in Board when it meets tonight in response to an apparently grow­
the Kellogg Center. Fr. Maurice ing demand for unlimited parie­Amen, Prof. James Carberry, tal hours and an alleged failure SLC member Ron Mastrianna to observe already established and Student Body President Phll pari~tal hours in some halls. McKenna, recommend that the 
Father Frank Cavanaugh,Student Life Council once again appraise co-education at Notre 
Chaplain for university person­Dame, and to merely offer nel, has opened a new office in guidelines ·to the halls rather I 09 Corby Hall. Fr. Cavanaugh will offer counseling for all uni­
than to establish definative rules. versity employees, as well as any
Some of the proposed guid~ines interested students ..
are: A statement of possible legal consequences and a warn­ing that students newly arrived· 
111111111111111111111111

at Notre Dame need "guidance until they can judge as well as 
~ 
PAGE 7

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1970 711B OBSUIIBt 
Trial results in contempt sentences 
CHICAGO (UPI) -The chief defense lawyer in the tiral of the "Chicago Seven" was sentenced to a term of more than four years in prison for contempt yesterday and all the defendants were jailed on similar charges. 
US District Court Judge Julius 
J. Hoffman told William M. Kunstler, the flamboyant civil rights layer from New York who has upbraided the judge through­out the marathon trial, that he is the kind of attorney who has "a 50, to four years and 13 days in jail. But he stayed execution of the sentence until May 4, since Kunstler is the chief counsel for the seven men charged with conspiring to incite riots during the 1968 Democratic Conven­tion and must lead their inevi­table appeals. 
stimulating  effect  on  the  
increase of crime."  
He  then  sentenced  Kunstler,  

While Hoffman handed down sentences to defendants and 



McKenna's reign 
(continued from page V 
' in LaFortune were truly con­
cerned with what they felt about 
the iSSUt<S." 
Thrasher explained that he 
felt that McKenna's government 
had "gone off on a course which 
often bears little relation to the 
needs of the students." He also 
stated that while student govern­
ment was professing the ideals of 
community, the poiicies they 
have fostered have gone against 
this idea. 
"Instead of getting people 
involved, instead of bringing 
peopl!j into what thould be their 
government, instead of building 
a community, Student Govern­
ment in reality has been tearing 
that ideal apart, while calling for 
co-operation on one hand,it has 
on the other created an air of 
mutual suspicion and distrust 
among the student body it 
claims to represent." he remark­
ed. 
Ex-Senator Rich Hunter also 
criticized the present SBP's poli­
cies. 
"Student government in reality has accomplished very little and the students know it. However it is a pretty safe bet that with a campaign coming up and the incumbent administra­tion backing one of its close associates for SBP there will be a rather sudden flurry of activity bef<?re the election to try to 
convince people that the ins are doing a good job," he stated. 
Ex-Senator Ed McCartin's comments on the McKenna administration were mixed, but generally tended towards praise. lie said tl'le administration had a "communications failure," and that they should have "gotten out into the halls more often." He did say though that "the orientation of student govern­ment is successful as far as I'm concerned." 
He also said that McKenna was "conscientious. about things and that he "feels obligated to attend meetings". McCartin felt the time spent in these meetings could have been better spent. 
SBVP Fred Dedrick also expressed confidence that he and Phil had done a good job during their time in office, and that their accomplishments were greater than most thought. 
"Basically I think we've done a good job. Bill Locke and Barney Gallagher have had success in getting basic ground­work in the area of academic affairs. The calendar has been changed while Philosophy and Theology requirements have been reduced. The experimental college has been approved and we're on th!! verge of getting students on most academic commissions of the university. Steve O'Brien and Tim Connor did a great job on the co-ed report, without which I feel, ND would still have no direction concerning co-education. Dave Krashna has done a good job in the area of recruiting minority groups and Pete Kelly 'has provided many opportunities for students to do meaningful work in South Bend. Jim Smith our Ombudsman, has done a good 
job although the kind of per­sonal help he gives will never receive much publicity." he said. 
Dedrick cited communica­tions as the main area in which the administration failed. He also said that many people opposed the work of the admini­stration because of the "personal political beliefs held by myself and Phil," but that he felt most people would agree with "what 


Tom Thrasher, Stay Senator and SBP hopeful. ' 
they were trying to do for them 
as students." 
Fred Giuffrida, Senator from Lyons was perhaps the most critical of the accomplishments of the McKenna administration. 
He said that "there have been 

few truly beneficial changes to 
come out of student government 
this year. Some of these were 
almost inevitable, others came 
about despite the McKenna 
administration's opposition (i.e. 
the University Forum). Further­
more the statements and action 

of some student government 
officials have produced much 
divisiveness among the student 
body. All in all student govern­
ment has both failed and suc­

ceeded. It has failed to provide 
much real service to the student 

and it has succeeded in fostering 
widespread alienation on this 
campus." 
Bean 

~i\IJF1 tl 
The Maritte Officer selec­tion team will be on cam­pus 17 to 20 February in the South Dining Hall 

lawyers for their behavior in the 
20 week old trial, a jury of l 0 
women and two men deliberated 
for the second day in a room 
nearby on the merits of a case 
which has come to be regarded 
as a landmark test of the 
constitutional limits of dissent 
and protest. 
A well bundled crowd of 
about 200 protesters stood in 
the Chicago chill outside the 
Chicago Federal Building where 
the titrial was in progress. 
Kunstler's sentence was far in 
excess of those meted out to the 
defendants themselves. In 
actions Saturday and Sunday, 
Hoffman ordered the "Chicago 
Seven" to jail for terms ranging 
from almost two and a half years 
to a little more than two 
months. 
The jury met for 9 hours Saturday without reaching a decision and was back at work again at 9 a.m. CST. 
Hoffman meanwhile sen-
Weather stinks 
UPI 
Snow, sleet and freezing rain extended yesterday from the Ohio Valley to the Allegheny Mountains. Travelers warnings were in effect for a 15 state tract from Indiana to Delaware and 
north to Maine. 
AI of the large metropolitan communities of the East were included in the travelers warning network. t 
Freezing rain and snow covered the Pennsylvania Turn­pike as temperatures dipped to the low 20s. State police said plowing and salting had failed to prevent hazardous driving con­ditions. 
Road in New York were reported slippery but not ex­tremely hazardous. Two to three inches of snow, mixed with tenced defendants Jerry Rubin, 31, to two years, one month, and 23 days; John Froines 30 to 6¥2 months, and Lee W;iner: 30, the heavily bearded "quite man" of the defense, to two mont}\s and 18 days. 
Saturday, while pandemoni­um broke out in the court Hoffman handed down sen: tences to the other defendants ­two years, five months, and 16 days for David Dellinger 53· two years, one month, a~d IS days for Rennard "Rennie" Davis, 29; one year, tow months, and 14 days to Thomas Hayden, 29, and eitht months for Abbott "A~_bie" Hoffman, 32. 
the defendants still faced possible sentences of up to I 0 years, plus $2,0,000 fines, if found guilty on the charges in the indictment. 
Kunstler fought the contempt sentences on grounds that the Supreme Court has ruled that a trial judge lacks jurisdiction to impose summary contempt sen­tences at the end of a trial, and that even if this is done another judge must hear the contempt citations before a jury and impose whatever punishment 'is necessary. 
But Hoffman turned down his argument and also denied a motion to release the defendants on bail. 
The judge imposed sentences for offenses ranging from 
· shouted obscenities to failure to rise when he entered or left the courtroom. He scored the law­yers for such statements as Kunstler's that "I feel utterly ashamed to be an American · lawyer at this time" and that at least one of Hoffman's rulings was "an unholy disgrace to the 
law." 
As Hoffman imposed his con­tempt sentences, each defendant was given a chance to tell off the judge -within limits Hoffman 
i~posed. 
Rubin, the bearded cofounder o~ th~ Youth International Party Yippies, embraced his sobbing wife before he was led away and shouted "sadist . . . sadist" to the judge. "You've done more to harm this coutry than any man alive." he said. 
Froines, an assistant professor of chemistry at the University of Oregon charged with plotting to blow up a downtown garage in Chicago, said, "When history is written, it will be the men who sat at this the defense table and the spectators who stayed all night to get in here who will be the real heroes." 
Weiner, a Northwestern·· Uni­versity instructor in sociology who rarely spoke during the trial, delivered one of the most off hand diatribes to the judge. 
Hands in his pockets and strolling about, Weiner reminded Hoffman, a Northwestern law school alumnus, that there was a hall named in his honor at the school. 
"I'm pleased to Tf.i'ort that the plaque has been ripped off the walls," he said. "I wouldn't suggest immediately appearing at the law school after this trial." 
At one point, Hoffman com­mented "I'm not biased in favor of the law . . . there are incompetent lawyers, incompe­tent chemists and incompetent reporteres who write inaccurate. sotries, but even when they are inaccurate they are entertaining. 
"I believe in the American way of administering the law." 
in the city well below freezing. 
In Brooklyn, N.Y., where temperatures were in the 20s, two persons were killed when an ov~rtaxed boiler exploded in a three story apartment house in the Greenpoint section. 
Two 1 5/8 inch diameter 
Two 1 1/8 inch diameter 

4 for $1 
Send $1 Cash-No C.O.D.'s To: 
'IIU11111111111111111111111111111 D&R Novelty Company P.O. Box 3144 
U. City, Mo., 63130 
Name ______~---­Address ------------­
City -===:zli~=-:---­
State-Zip 
freezing rain kept temperatures r--------------------------­
-INTRODUCING ­
The 2nd Annual • Thompson & McKinnon 

MOCK STOCK MARKET 
Play the STOCK MARKET with $2000 credit for only $1. 
Register in the lobby at the Business Building for the Finance club's 3 month stock market game. 

MET CLUB 



''BERMUDA 70'' 
MEETING TONIGHT Room 127 Nleuwland 7:00P.M. 
Final Payments Due 

r 
PAGE 8 

7118 OliSDfiBit 
~--------------------------~--------­
N D be s ~.~ ...~!d~~Sa~ro~. ~,~j~ ~!~ot~, <?..fJ~.~ j~p~-b,,. 
the Irish almost dropped a deci-against Marguette before the TV toward the foul line, and threw a
by Mike Pavlin 
sion to a Detroit quintet which eye, so there seemed to be little shot straight up and in, neverObserver _Sports Editor entered the game with a 6-15 chance for the-Irish on Valen-touching the rim; and the Irish 
There must be something record. tine's Day, down 15 points in went on to " 95-93 overtime about that state of MicHigan But Nb had a .tjinx". ofsorts the middle of the second half win. which brings out th!l. best, in on its side as TVS-TY-trans-and down two points with :03 The Titans of first-year coach weak basketball teams. Last lari­mitted an Irish miracle-victory left. Jim Haring came out in a box­uciry 20, Notre D~me journeyed for the second weekend in a Collis Jones, however, took and-one defense (ND used a 
to East Lansing and was stunned row. Just ~s there was "no the crucial in-bounds pass from man-to-man) with sophomore85 82 by an . f · M. h.
m enor 1gan_~e Carr. Not only did the youngster -lC h " for the ND with five Jim Calucchia hounding Austin 
FG FT REB PTS FG FT REB PTS prevent Austin from even shoot­DeSilva 11-15 4-5 13 26 ing most of the time, but he
Jones 11-23 3-5 14 25 Moore 5-14 2-3 6 12 contributed ten points, almost
Gemmell 3-4 1-1 5 7 Peake 4-10 1-2 13 9 
0-1 8 16 

all coming in the first half. Carr 7-18 7-7 6 21 Calucchia 2-9 6-10 5 10 
Catlett 8-11 Russell 14-27 4-4 3 32 
There are two main offensive Meehan 2-3 0-0 0 4 Smith 0-0 0-2 0 0 
strategies to use against the 3 10 
"box": you can ignore it and tryO'Connell 3-9 4-5 Rucker 1-1 2-2 4 4 to run your regular patterns; orSinnott 5-14 0-1 3 10 TOTALS 37-76 19-28 44 93 you can exploit the zone's in­
Ring a 0-0 2-3 1 2 Shooting; Notre Dame 39 of H2 for 47 per cent; Ziznewski 0-0 0-0 0 0 l)etroit 37 of 76 for 49-per cent. _ 
herent weakness (too much open" space) and forget about your bigTOTALS 39-82 17-23 40 95 Turnovers: Notre Dame 14. Detroit 13. 
man. The Irish seemed content to leave Carr out of the action -and get balanced first half scor­ing. ND's real problem came at the
Swimmers spl!_!_on relay 
other end of the court. Deroit's NO's tankmen took a decisive, Schiralli, Michael McDon_ough, first in the ioo butterfly. 
offense worked beautifully dur­
pressure-filled realy to climax a Fahey, and Krathaus won with a ing the first period as the Titans 60-53 victory over St. 3:53.9. 
converted a variety of shots Bonaventure Saturday at 
Brian Short timed a I :59.6 in from Vern DeSilva and some Rockne M"emorial. The meet-raised the squad's 
the 200 free for a first, and Mike fine jump shots by Frank slate to 7-3 following a 67-44 
McDonough won the 200 breast­Russell. Also, a soph, RussellJohn Sherk of the Irish loss at North~estern Thursday. stroke with a 2:26.7. dazzled the home crowd with his tltarted the last 1 00 yards of the: · jump shots, which seemed to400 yard relay virtually even Against the Wildcats, Sherk Tomorrow night, the squad originate somewhere behind andwith his Bonnie opponent, but agairi scored firsts in the 500 and travels to Western Michigan for a to the side of his neck, finishedsurpassed him in the final 25 1000, and Fahey took his usual dual meet. 
up as the game's high scorer withyards to secure the victory for 32 points. 
Notre Dame. James Cooney, Douglas Free, and Craig Ferrell preceded Sherk in the event. 

Fencingstreak ended 
The swordsmen from Wayne Follo~ing thislo~, -the Irish; 
Sherk also set a new varsity State led by All-American foil got back on the track by and pool record in the 500 yard artist Rich Mulazzo and sabre whipping the University of freestyle with 5:08.2 and the man Davrd Amouels handed the Detroit 17-10 and smashing the pool mark of 5:08.8 set in 1968 Irish fencers their first loss of University of Chicago 22-5. by L. Solomon of Ohio Uni­the season Saturday 17-10, Twenty-two fencers took part in versity. Sherk also placed first in breaking a two-year streak of 14 the Irish romps as the team ran the 1000 free, tiqting I0:44.0. victories. The Wayne Staters their season record to 11-1. 
Gene Krathaus placed first in won twelve of fourteen decisive It was a rough weekend forthe I 00 free ~itl'\ 49.7, ND's 5-4 matches to clinch a contest individual records as all the best l 00 mark this year, as well that was closer than the 17 -I0 regulars absorbed losses. Mike as taking his usual 50 with 22.4. score indicates. The Irish fencers Cornwall (3-1) in foil and Rich Frank Fahey placed first in the blew several chances to turn the Deladrier (5-2) in epee were 200 butterfly (2:08.4), and the match around as 4-4 deadlocks two who distinguished them­400 medley team of Nicholas fell to the more aggressive selves with solid performances.
Wayne men. 

After absorbing only their third loss in three years, the_ 
N.D. bladesmen will prepare this week for revenge against an Omo State squad that handed them their only loss last year. A slightly improved Michigan State team will also test the Irish this Saturday in Colombus, Ohio. 
This weeks 
sports 
Mon.: Basketball; HOME, vs.
,if,._.,:•

.. Tulane
-' 
'!· 

Tues.: Swimming,away, vs. Western Michigan. Wrestling, away, vs. Wheaton College 
Wed.: Hockey, HOME, vs. Bowling Green 
Thurs.: Basketball, away vs. NYU 
Fri.: Wrestling, away, Wheat­on Invitational Meet. Track, Freshman Bruce Raskob, whole goal and two assists aided the Irish HOME, Central Collegiate
in their 10-1 romp last Friday night over hapless Lake Forest College 
Conference Meet -­
appears to have well filled the skates of soph _John Womack lost to' Sat:=-Basketball, HOME vs.
' 

It was the up-front tandem of Jones and Sid Catlett which pro­vided the impetus during the comeback. Jones scored 25 points and hauled down 14 re­bounds during the game, while Catlett shot a superb 8-11 from the floor for his 16 points. These two combined for the last six points in regulation after Sinnott unfroze himself and canned a pair of field goals. 
In the overtime period, the hero's mantle fell on the should­ers of O~Connell and Jim Hinga. Once again playing an outstand­ing floor game, Mike converted two one-a,nd-one foul situations to keep ND ahead during the extra five-minute period. The Muncie Milkman, who hadn't attempted any sort of a shot all day, made both ends of his one-and-one to give the Irish the deciding 9 5-9I edge. 
Significant in the win was Notre Dame's performance with­out the usual help from Carr. Austin managed 21 points, but he played a poor game--at least for him. The rest of the squad took up the slack in fine style as O'Connell and Sinnott were the ·fourth and fifth Irishmen in double scoring figures, each with ten points. 
Carr did pass another mile­stone. He now has I 082 career points, leaving him tenth on the all-time list. He also broke Tom Hawkins' mark for season (all games) field goals, chalking up his 293rd of the year. 

the icers d!!!! toscholastic !!teligibility. 
West Virginia. Track, HOME,Raskoy and his teammates blitzed Forester goalie Jeff Ward with r. 
Central Collegiate Conference
60-shot barrage as Notre Dame closed out their road games for the 1969-110 season by upping their record to 17-8 with five home games Meet. Wrestling, away, Wheaton to play. Soph Kevin Hoene garnered his second hat-trick of the year Invitational Meet. Swimming, with two goals in the first and one in the second stanza. away, vs. Purdue. Fencing, away, 
The Irish return to home ice on Wednesday eve for a 7:30 encoun­vs. Ohio State and Michigan ter against Bowling Green, a 9-3 victim ear.Jier in the season. State
. . 








