

) 
VOL. IV, No. 94 
by Cliff~.r a5 ~i.~b~ .J:~,!,~ n.~will~~. dow~l~ 5 e ~ r a ~5 ItI 0 n 
Observer Associate Editor The pair indicated that the the present administration and Newly elected president Dave transition time till April 6, when seeing exactly where they are at, K h I h. · 1' nat· where we want to go, and we
ras na ant ts runnu g-1 · e they come into power, will be Mark Winings, fresh from a wild concerned with probing specific will make appropriate changes victory celebration the night details about issues raised during based on these factors," said before, yesterday cited a the campaign and closely exam-Krashna. 
"smooth and comfortable" tran-· ining the possible solutions. In While Krashna and Winings sition between administrations this manner, they feel the said that they were determined as their primary task between specifics of implementing their not to follow precisely the same now and inauguration day. ideas can be presented soon after footprints of the McKenna ad-
To accomplish this task, the taking office. ministration, they did feel there pair contended it is necessary to Krashna expects the McKenna is a necessity for the continua-establish a working relationship administration to be important lion of some of the programs With people at all lewis of the in evaluating the existing campus and activities of the old adminis­university structure who are situation. continued un page 2 connected to student govern­ment operations. The coopera­tion of student government was 
Junior Parents arrive 
also seen as crucial. "We have to find and establish 
for weekend activities 
contacts to carry out the ideas we mised during the campaign picked up in the CE Center at
by Mike Ruffer 
anti along with this, we must sit this time. From 9:30-11 am the 
down with members of the The first registration period majors presentation will take present administration and study for the 18th annual Junior place in their respective college the mechanics of the various Parents-Son Weekend will offi­and departmental facilities. 
governmental offices," said cially begin at 4 p.m. in the From 11:15 am to 1.:00 pm lobby of the Center for Contin­SOP -elect Dave Krashna
Krashna. 
continued on page 9 
Mark Winings said that the uing Education, and it will last 
beginnings of a new administra­until I 0 pm. Weekend Commit­tion were started during the tee chairman, Jim D'Aurora, campaign and already informa­stressed the fact that it is very tion is being colleded on cam­
important for the parents to register: this is the only way for
paign issues. them to obtain the specific
"Throughout the campaign, information about the weekend.
we have been gathering infor­This evening at 6:45 pm, the
mation on all related areas of Notre Dame Glee Club will
student life from the question of present its Spring Concert in
black concentrations to which Washington Hall. The film, La
bills to present to the Student Dolce Vita, will follow the
Life Council to how to get in the concert at 8:30, also in Washing­
halls on a personal basis," said ton Hall.
Winings. Tomorrow, the final registra­
lie cited contact between tion period for the parents will
Director of Housing Father be held in the Center for
Edgar Whelan, and Krashna Continuing Education from 9
personnel during the campaign am-12pm. The detailed schedule
discussing room selections as an for Saturday's events can be
example of action already ini-
Bach named new 
as publisher.

by Mike Bergida 
Bach who will assume the The Observer's Board of 
editorship on April I, is a Junior Directors announced yesterday majoring in psychology. As a the appointment of Dave Bach, freshman and sophomore, Bach 20, as the new editor of the 
was a reporter for the Observer. Observer. He replaces 
This year he was a night editor Editor-in-Chief Guy De Sapio 
and a member of the editorial who will remain with the paper board. 


: :1 
~r: ~. 
Dave Bach was named OBSERVER Editor effective April I. 



Sheedy discusses need for more Intercampus 1nteract1on 
has not reached its full potential. class is now being processed. An by Charlie Meyers One reason he cited for this is exchange program is being set up 
Expressing the need fc;>r more the present physical layout of for approximately 170 students informal interaction between the the du Lac campus. He noted from each school. students of both campuses, that "the Notre Dame set of "We are going to explicitly Father Charles Sheedy, head of facilities is not conducive to seek out students for this the Notre Dame-St. Mary's much informality at present." program, over and above those 
Co-Exchange program, discussed Apart from the student center, who will sign up anyway," he the future of Co-exchange in a there exists very few places noted. recent Observer interview. where men and women can get He feared a scheduling 
The pure academic mixture together, he noted. difficulty here in the fact that he feels, has been very Sheedy feels that "a change in sophomores have so many satisfactory, yet the day-to-day physical facilities has to electives open to them. 
routine of both student bodies happen." "It's failry easy to do with the 
Another factor Sheedy freshmen class, since they pinpointed as contributing to basically have the same the lack of routine contact with program." he noted about 
women is the comparable size of scheduling co-ex courses. the two schools. The fall of '69 marked the 
Bach commented that there "Notre Dame is so large that first time that freshmen had won't be any "noticable" change girls tend to become lost." he been offered co-ex classes. Last in the Observer. He feels a stated. summer, questionnaires were sent 
responsibility to "stress student Fr. Sheedy is extremely out inquiring whether incoming needs." Bach said that the optimistic about the overall students would be interested in 
editorials, "as was the case this effectiveness of the program. this program or not. This policy year would continue to reflect "Whatever happens in terms will be repeated this fall. the consensus of the editorial of co-education will be The question of SMC board and not one man's opin­preceeded by co-exchange," he expansion, he notes, is a 
ion." stated. financial one. St. Mary's 
"The expansion of the Obse­The joint-registration policy, freshmen class was expanded by rver," said Bach, "is over for implemented this semester with roughly 200 people this past fall, a while." He said that his main SMC students registering at ND, Father said, but any physical goal will be to "stabilize" the is here to stay, Sheedy said. He expansion becomes a question 
paper by co-ordinating the staff pointed out that the academic for their Board of Trustees. and improving quality. calendars of both schools now Notre Dame's physical 
Bach said that there would be coincide, and a common grading expansion, he notes, would increased efforts to improve St. system is being worked out. ideally be towards St. Mary's. Mary's coverage next year. Father Sheedy would like to U.S. 31 would pose a serious 
Bach has appointed Dave see more joint departments problem though, he mused. 
Stauffer, a Junior From Boaz, established. A joint Theatre Route 3 I divides the two West Virginia and currently department already exists. He campuses. Features Editor, as Executive hopes that similar programs will "There isn't a tremendous Editor. Glen Corso, s sophomore be set up "by mean~ of amount of physical expansion 
from Massapequa, New York voluntary cooperation rather left," rather Sheedy explained, and currently the News Editor than by directed policies." "Unless the two schools become was named Campus Editor. According to Sheedy, 

editor 
one." 
Corso will establish a "forum for approval for ioint degrees has 
The co-ex program has been student opinion" by answering already been granted. Father 
growing as various departmentsletters to the editor and res­cited the case of two 
at both schools permit more earching the facts on important architecture students from SMC 
students to take classes at the issues. presently studying at Notre 
other school. 
"Student opinion about the Dame. Joint clegrees are As late as 1965 only sixteen Observer," said Bach will be one: important for those students 
students from both schools were of the first areas of Corso's seeking degrees in area~ not 
enrolled in co-exchange. This investigations. "At times we're offered on their own campus. 
present spring semester has more too close to know what the 
Sheedy revealed that a new than I000 Notre Dame students contonued on page 2 policy for next fall's sophomore enrolled at SMC alone. 

PAGE 2 FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 1970
THE OBSERJJER. 

DeSapio named publisher 
DeSapio will stay with the relationship with him was not cvlltillued frvm page 1 Observer as publisher "until that "clearly distinguished," deSapio students really think about their time the business staff gets a noted. This often gave rise to paper," he noted. firm control and understanding duplication of effort and mis­
Another "stabilizing" move of the operation." understanding of roles. There by Bach will be to lessen the "Bach," said DeSapio, "will was sometimes question of who night editors' work load. Since have complete and free control had the primary responsibility most of the "best writers are of editorial direction and of staff for putting out the paper and night editors" said Bach, the assignment." DeSapio will retain directing the editorial policy. 
"financial control." Bach noted DeSapio said that he hoped toObserver would benefit from however that DeSapio would write for the paper more in any

more night editors. Present editors Jim Hilsinger, 
have a vote on the editorial field that Bach felt that he board. wanted him to.

John Knorr, Dave Lammers, Tim DeSapio noted that this "Dave is an outstandingTreanor, and Cliff Wintrode will 
become Bach's "senior repor­
arrangement should work for the choice for editor and I am sure ters" to cover important news be:;t. When Don Holliday was the that the Observer will grow Observer publisher at the begin­under his direction," DeSapio
events. 
ning of the year, DeSapio's

Bach said that he wanted more staff people to know more about the total operation of the 
Symposium scheduled

paper so they will be more able 
to handle their particular assign­The West European Studies of the Uhiversity of Massachu­ments more capably." 
Program, under the direction of setts and "The Withering A way By making the ObserJJer an Professor Stephen D. Kertesz, of Western Liberal Democracy"education in journalism, Bach will sponsor a symposium en­by Anthony Hartley, editor offorsees that next semester he titled New Challenges to Interplay.

will have a responsible crew of Constitutional Democracy in the Guy DeSapio, OBSERVER Editor-in-Chief, will becomenight editors and a smoother Tuesday's activities include
Atlantic Community."· The

operation. "The New Left", given by publisher on April I. 
symposium will consist of a
The total effect of his policies Gerhart Niemeyer, Professor of
series of lectures to be held at

would be to insure continuity Government and International 
Krashna outlines plans 
the Center for Continuing Edu­

from year to year to insure that Studies here at Notre Dame. 
cation this Sunday, Monday, and no editor would be ',forced into 

A registration fee of $20.00

Tuesday. (continued from page 1) 
"If there is not a studenttaking a job he knows nothing 

must be paid today by anyone
Noteworthy addresses on

about." It will be a "gradual" tration. Especially important, forum, we will not be as
interested in attending. Professor
Monday include "Current Chal­

process stated Bach but "If I do they felt, are the areas of effective in getting back into the
Kertesz can be contacted at his
lenges to Democracy in the

my job right, the next editor will coeducation and academic re-halls as we would have been
office, 1201 Memorial Library.
United States" by Glenn Tinder form. otherwise. It is a tool, and if thehave it a lot easier." 

Krashna gives top priority to tool breaks down, the job his Student Forum, which he usually breaks down," he said. contends will eliminate the need Krashna said that commen­


Germfree animals susceptible 
for a student senate. A senator surate with increased responsi­will present a bill in the senate bility for hall presidents isThe germfree animal can't using the beneficial bacteria for bidden by low-cholesterol diets requesting that the senate abo-increased responsibility for allmedical purposes. "For some actually do their damage bycatch a cold or come down with !ish itself some time in the the members of hall government the flu, but he may be much reason," Kellogg explained, suppressing the activity of ben­future, said Krashna. A and basically increased personal"older people seem unable to get eficial bacteria. On the othermore susceptible to hardening of two-thirds vote of the Senate is responsibility for the residents.
rid of excess cholesterol. If we

the . arteries, according to two hand, he added, foods such as required to do away with itself. "We must emphasize againresearchers here. could find a way to turn up corn oil help the body eliminate If a student forum is imple-that it is not purely hallThe reason? He lacks friendly bacterial activity, or if we could cholesterol and aid in reducing mented, new demands will be presidents, it is hall governmentbacteria in the lower intestine simulate that activity through levels of the fatty substance in placed on the hall presidents. and all that entails such asthat help control cholesterol chemicals, we could aid many the blood. 
Krashna said ',recommend-having effective and dedicatedlevels, Drs. Thomas F. Kellogg heart patients and elderly people Wostmann's main interest is in ations" through a letter will section leaders and more basic­and Bernard D. Wostmann, re­suffering from hardening of the the chemical means that bacteria soon be sent to the students ally dedicated hall members thatsearchers at Lobund Laboratory, arteries." Hardening of the arter­use to modify cholesterol and asking for new hall elections will make or break studentexplained. These bacteria modi­ies occurs when scales of fatty other compounds like it. He is right after Easter if hall residents government," said Krashna.
fy cholesterol compounds so material collect on the inside of that the body does not absorb blood vessels, clogging these vital also investigating a fatty acid desire new elections. , Winings said the new admin-passages and putting excess which reduces levels of choles­"We are recommending that istration will be met with an
them as easily. In normal ani­strain on the heart. terol in the blood of both students consider holding new attitude in which "communi­mals, much excess cholesterol is conventional and germfree ani­hall elections with the idea that cation is already there. We caneliminated, along with other Kellogg is particularly inter­mals. Unlike other diet factors, now with the emphasis on hall improve it, but at the same: timewaste material, in this manner. 

ested in diet, and how food this fatty acid does not function presidents, residents may want there are legitimate needs whichKellogg and Wostmann are elements affect the bacterial by merely increasing bacterial to reconsider the present hall have to be recognized and actedcomparing cholesterol meta­culture in the intestines. He has activity, but seems to have some presidents," said Krashna. upon by the administration."
bolism in germfree and conven­found, as many researchers had direct effect on cholesterol it­"No hall president has told us "At the same time, you havetional animals carefully, in the suspected, that some foods for-self. that he is not willing to work on to be reasonable and recognizehopes of discovering ways of 

the forum," added Krashna. that all parties have an interest 
Research into these funda­

If the student forum idea is in the development of Notre
THERE ARE REAL 
mental studies of cholesterol 

not realized, Krashna felt that Dame, and that no one side has 
metabolism are supported by the

SOCIAL CONCERNS 

the effectiveness of com-all the answers," Winings said. 
YOU COULD DEMONSTRATE 
BUT WHY NOT PREPARE YOURSELF PROFESSIONALLY TO MAKE A SIGNIFICANT CONTRIBUTION TO YOUR SOCIETY THROUGH COUSELING AND GUIDANCE 
PSYCHOLOGY. 
INSTITUTE FOR GRADUATE STUDIES IN EDUCATION 


M.A. and Ph.D. Degrees offered 
OPEN HOUSE ... FRIDAY 13... 1 to 4 
... COUNSELING CENTER RM 315 


ADMINISTRATION BUILDING 
National Institutes of Health and munication between han residents the Indiana and American Heart and student government will beAssociations. 

severely weakened. 

r---------------------------, 

Welcome N.D. Junior Parents 
Hope you have an enjoyable weekend at N.D. 
If your son never writes home, the OBSERVER always will! 
It brings the news to you everyday! 

SPECIAL RATE TO THE END OF THE YEAR $2.00 
Name -----------------­
Address________________ City 
"We are dealing with struc tures that are so complex and 
-bureaucratic, there is a great tendency to get bogged down unless you take a firm and adamant stand you will not steer clear of those structures," said Krashna. 

Holmestospeak 
Dr. Urban T. Holmes, Kenan Professor of romance philology at the University of North Carolina, will speak at 3:30pm today in Room 71 5 of the Memorial Library. 
Holmes, the president of the fellows of the Medieval Aca­demy of America and Chevalier of the Legion of d'Honneur, will speak on " Chretien de Troyes." His talk will be introduced by Dr. A.L. Gabriel, director of the Mediaeval Institute. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions rnay be purchased for $8 from the Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 


PAGE 3
FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 1970 




Introducing Rallye 350 ...newfrom Oldsmobile! 
It's here-Oids Rallye 350-fresh­est fastback on the road today with a budget-pleasing price. Here's an exciting new Olds model that's a leader in both value and looks. 
Its value starts with a big Rocket 350 V-8 that features Oldsmobile's exclusive new positive valve rotators that de­liver smoother performance, longer engine life ... a side-guard beam in each door for added security ... hidden windshield wipers, and a radio antenna that's in the windshield ... a 112" wheelbase for quick handling ... an anti-theft steering column lock ... front fender liners that fight metal corrosion. 

Its looks feature an excit­ing color ... Sebring Yellow. A fiberglass hood with functional air scoops and special paint treatment ... new urethane­coated bumpers and painted ... special two-tone striping ... super wide-oval bias-belted tires for longer tread life. They're all part of the Rallye 350 option. Why, you can even order a rear­deck spoiler if you wish. 
Stop in soon at your Olds­mobile dealer's and check out the new Rallye 350 and all the other great Olds models. One thing you can count on: Every one of them gives you "some­thing extra" in comfort, conve­

Oldsmobile 
For"something extra': see your Olds dealer. 

MUUt Of I lCHll NCI 

-------------------------' 
PAGE 4 


FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 1970 
' 

THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Ed itorial: 

A mandate tor change 
We would like to congratulate Student Body President-elect David Krashna and his running mate Mark Winings on their over­whelming victory on Wednesday. l11e impres­sive and record-breaking margin of votes is an endorsement of their idea of how to bring student government closer to the students. Their election can only be interpreted as a mandate for the change in the atmosphere here which they envisioned. 
We support the efforts of the two men to bring about the changes that they seek. It won't be easy but with much work their concept of a Student Forum should prove effective in bringing the student body closer together and bringing student government closer to the students. 
Elections are always emotional ·occurences .. Supporters of both sides can often be shown to have gone overboard in working for their standard bearer. As the weeks pass after election day enthusiasm usually wanes but more often than not animosities linger on. 
We hope that this year Notre Dame will awake to the fact that "community" will never be achieved if the political divisions that are raised during the campaign are not forgotten. 
Both major candidates this year stood for the most part persistently on the need to encourage a campaign run on the issues and a post election attitude of co-operation and understanding. We add our voice to that of the candidates. 
If the call for increased student responsibility is to work there is a need for students' actions to mirror their vote. It is the obligation of each student now to take an active interest in the hall-in helping to provide a sense of direction-to increasing communication and relieving tensions. Krashna will be asking students to evaluate their present leadership to assure that there are capable hall leaders. 
The "new atmosphere" must be a change of spirit if nothing else. Krashna and Winings election alone can not bring it. Nothing that student government can do will bring it. Changes can be made in the institution and the structures-but the changes will be meaningless unless each student takes it upon himself to do a little more for his own spirit and for the atmosphere of this community as a whole. 

G'"" AN0THERoooo """" ·~ '"'"'""=" No"• O•m.._j 
Letters to the Editor 
Cheers Over the triteness 
Dear Notre Dame, 

Three cheers for Ann-Therese Why do you look snallowly at 
Darin! Her article on the Wo­me? Why do you pass over my men's Liberation Front at St. humanness? Why am I not your Mary's was excellent, and con­brother first of all and other veyed the general reaction. Per­things after? Why are we not sonally, I wish the WLF would human beings together'? First, 
shut up and quit rocking my above all else we are human boat. If they want to stop beings, aren't we? Thm why not wearing their bras, it's fine with recognize that fact first? 
me, but I rather like the My dear white brother, my privileges and deferences that go dear black brother, my dear with being such a second-class brothers of other races and 
citizen! creeds, we are common in our 
Paddy Don<wan humanness. Can't we recognize 
St. Mary's that over and above our triteness 
of ourselves? Why can't we live Editor: 


together as human beings. Why? David A. Redle 312 Dillon Hall 
.I 
The Great loud Minority 
-. 
Editor: 

The letters I have written before this concerning the faults
Bad Grass 

of Notre Dame ha\e brought Editor: exactly the response I thought In the confusion of debate they would. The people who 
over academic reform, university 
have written back have either complicity, coeducation, hall 
asked me to leave Notre Dame autonomy, and other issues of or stop throwing rocks. This is some import, letters like those the mentality of the majority of 
of Rev. Lochner (February 25, the people at Notre Dame and March 12) might well be 
I'm glad they have shown refreshing. After all, bickering 
themselves true to form. over student use of grass For those who have read a privileges is sort of an oasis of few of my letters, I hope they absurdity. 
have noticed the Ja.:k of res­Rev. Lochner's position as 
ponse when I talk about national Assistant University t:haplain, 
affairs. This fits in perfectly with however, raises a disturbing Notre Dame's "Great Silent doubt. If the oppression of grass 
Majority". Once ag1in Notre at Notre Dame is the issue tha~ 
Dame shows itself, this time by 
Business Mgr.: Bruce Rieck Ad. Mgr.: Bruce Barker Accountant: John Maher News Editor: Glen Corso SMC News Editor: Prue Wear Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Ann Conway, Jeanne Sweeney Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin Feature Editor: Dave Stauffer Photography Editor: Mike Murphy 

Night Editor: T.C. Treanor Layout Design: Dave Bach Layout: · John Abowd, Dan Koppenhafer, Buz Craven, Jan Reimer Headlines: Randy Young, Cliff Wintrode, GlenS. Corso Proofreader: John Abowd Ad Layout: Steve Dollinger Night Controller: Joe Becker 
The opinions expressed on the editorials, news analyses, and columns of The Observer are solely the opinions of the authors and editors of The Observer, and do not necessarily reflect the views of St. Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame, their administrations, faculty. or student bodies. 
moves one to take to the pen, a curious set of priorities is uncovered. Allow me to suggest that Rev. Lochner's analogy of a train wreck might ring a bit more true applied to a real problem. In the hope that such comic relief has served its purpose, I eagerly a wait Rev. Lochner's next Jetter. 
Worried, 
John Cahill 
334 Badin abstaining. 

"While her loyal sons are marching onwards to victory." This is possibly the best descrip­tion of Notre Dame's student body. They march (a:; in follow the leader) loyal as always (tradition, now and forever). And they're all heading for victory, namely that ~jant doHar sign at the end of the field. 
Larry Overlan 
I 233 Notre Dame 
PAGE 5

FRIDAY, MARCH 13 1970_ 711£ OBSEIHIEit 
Three essays for Junior Parents 
or 'The Golden Dome may be heaven high, but it's only cardboard thick' 
by Dave Stauffer 
Observer Features Editor 
I.a. 

Hello, junior parents. How are you? How was the trip up? How's that fine young junior of yours? 
Don't answer that last one too hastily. I suppose that you've already checked the hair. Nothing over I", right? Face shining as he greeted you, dress shoes shined, perhaps a tie and maybe even a coat. 
Well, don't believe it. I mean, you aren't really going to let his stellar two-day image convince you that he's like this all the time, are you? After all, you're up here to find out how he looks and behaves when you aren't here, right? 
Take heed: The old "invert the image" method will serve your purpose splendid­ly. It's quite simple and based on the universally ackowledged fact that the more someone wants to hide something from you, the more that someone will reverse or "invert" his image when he is with you. Get it? 
Now you can decipher your son's true N D self with the greatest of accun1cy. The shorter his hair is for you, the longer it is when you're gone. Shiny shoes? He'd be barefoot any other weekend. Coat and tie? Formal attire the remainder of the year is then no more than a T-shirt with ripped arm-pits and Levi's that are worn three months at a time. I could go on; but I'm sure that by now you need no help. 
So if he's casually dressed, be proud and happy; if he's as far gone as a shave and a suit, beat the hell out of him. 
b. 

Now that things are straightened out with the boy, it's time to enjoy Junior Parents-Son Weekend. Notre Dame goes all out for you this week, folks. Our University is all washed, neatly groomed, and dressed to the hilt. You'II never see a shinier Golden Dome. 
II. 

A story of questionable accuracy which depicts for the reader the origins of Junior Parents-Son Weekend. 
It was a gloomy, early spring day at Notre Dame. Somewhere in the Admini­stration Building, probably on the third floor, a member of the University administration who also happened to be a priest was contemplating how students and parents of students felt toward his school. 
He thought longingly about how nice it is when students are freshmen. Their parents bring them out to Notre Dame, and the little freddies just love the place. Their parents love it too. It's a mans school. Everyone is a part of the Notre Dame family and everyone is happy. 
But the administration member was sad because he realized that this situation doesn't last. The parents go back home. The only way they hear about Notre Dame is through letters from their sons. At first it's good. But during sophomore year the students become disillusioned, and they tell their parents. 
By junior year the students are rather disgusted, and they often wonder why they ever came here -and they tell their parents. Soon, even the parents are becoming disillusioned with Notre Dame! 
The administration member recognized the problem: the students, and eventually the parents, lose their vision of the Golden Dome and awaken to reality. Reality must be overcome! But how? the administration member wondered. 
Just then a curious thing happened. Seemingly carried by a breeze which wasn't even present, a copy of the freshman orientation program from the previous fall drifted lightly from the ceiling and fell to rest at the feet of the brooding administrator. 
He looked at the pamphlet for a long time. He looked, thought ... and smiled a smile that grew and grew . . . a re-orientation. Why not? If it worked two years ago, it would work again. The juniors themselves were hopelessly lost, but through them, their parents could be brought back into the fold -with the students themselves doing the work ­and, if handled correctly, with the parents themselves paying for it! 
After all, he thought, what parents can think anything but good of Notre Dame as they stand by Father Sorin, gazing in awe at the Golden Dome? 
III.' 
A short, short play featuring the parents of two juniors. The place is the registration line. The juniors are seen, hut not heard. The action begins after confused introductions: 
MRS. A. -Why we're from New Orleans and what a dreadful flight we 



537 Notre Dame students killed!! 
area of Biafra. In the Junior Parent
hy Students for Biafran Relief 
masses, a special collection will be taken
P.O. Box 516 
to supplement the need for food in that 
Notre Dame 
sector of Africa. In Sacred Heart Church 
Sounds preposterous, doesn't it? But it Sunday, all the communicants will find might as well be true. Right now our envelopes in their pews which are African brothers and sisters are dying of specifically designed for STUDENTS 
starvation  in  what  was  once  known  as  FOR  BIAFRAN  RELIEF  collections.  
Biafra.  Anyone  who  wishes  to  help  save  those  
There  is  a  national  student  Biafran  lives  is  asked  to  place  their  
organization  headquartered  at  Notre  contribution  in  the envelope  and  place  
Dame  There  is  a  national  student  the  envelope  in  the  collection  basket  
organization  headquartered  at  Notre  during Mass. There will  not be a special  

Dame that is trying to alleviate some of collection basket passed around during the hunger in Nigeria. It's called the Mass, but instead all donations should STUDENTS FOR BIAFRAN RELIEF. be placed in the special envelopes in the And they need your help so that they can regular collection. In case anyone would effectively help. like to send his contribution to the cause 
This weekend, a drive will take place in the envelopes are self-addressed and thu~ the Notre Dame-South Bend communities only require the placing of a 6 cents to raise the money which will be used to postage, in addition to the check. purchase food and medical supplies by demoted and placed as a subordinate unit the Nigerian Red Cross in the Strife-torn within the Federal Ministry of Development. 
Statistics indicate that over 42.4% of all children under 4 years of age are suffering from nutritional deprivation, and that 31.4% of the entire population suffered from that same illness. The people only require 2 ounces of high protein food each day (cereal, stockfish, and dry milk) in order to survive. It costs very little to buy the food, but very much to buy enough and to transport it to the people. So please, remember these Christian people when you are attending your Christian services; and at all times when we thank God for our own existence, when we take so very much for granted. 
Anyone desiring further information can do so at the Students for Biafran Relief Headquarters, Room 2A of LaFortune Student Center. 
had! It's such a bother to come such a long distance, but we think that it's worthwhile as long as our Mike is going to Notre Dame. 
MRS. B. -I know just what you mean. 
Luckily, we don't have far to go, being 
from Peoria, but Lord knows Bill and I 
would send Donnie to Notre Dame if we 
lived in ...Thailand. 
MRS. A. -Of course our Mike was just 
so set on Notre Dame. I told him that he 
wouldn't like the weather, just joking you 
know, but he considered it all quite 
seriously and said that he wanted to go to 
Notre Dame even with the bad weather. 
MR. A. -Weather's atrocious up here; 
don't you think so, Bob? 
MR. B. -Uh...that's Bill. 
MRS. A. -Why we came up for the 
Navy game when our Mike was a 
freshman and it was terrible. It rained and 
then turned to snow during the game. 
Why, football or no football, we went 
back to the motel and watched on TV. 
MRS. B. -Even so, the boys like football so much. There's so much to be entertained by at Notre Dame. Football and pep rallies and concerts and all the pageantry on football Saturdays. We couldn't have found a better school for Donnie if we had searched forever. 
MR. A.-I'll tell you what I like about 
Notre Dame is that president, that 
Harshen berger fellow. 
MRS. A.-That's Jlesburgh, honey. 
MR. A. -What do you think, Blaine? 
MR. B. -Uh...that's Bill. 
MR. A. -Why, the very night they 
announced that fifteen minute ri'tle on 
Huntley-Brinkley I turned to Aggie here 
and said, "Aggie, I believe that we should 
send a letter of congratulations to that 
Hestenberg. 
MRS. A. -That's Hesburgh, honey. 
MRS. B.-I know just what you mean. Bill and I have such admiration for that man. How he can run a school with the national image of Notre Dame and serve on all those commissions at the same time is beyond me. 
MRS. A. He has given so much to this school. Why, I wouldn't he surprised if this weekend weren't his idea, also. Why, it's so nice for John and I to get back up here and see a campus with lots of trees and grass, and isolation from the cities, and beautiful buildings, and a good football team, ... and good teachers. 
MRS. B. And of course it's always so nice to stand among the trees and grass and look at that lovely Got den Dome. 
A 'Fan's Notes' 
will become movie 
A Fans Notes," the prize-winning first 
novel by Fred Exley, will be brought to 
the motion picture screen by 30-year-old 
producer Martin Davidson and director 
Eric Till for Warner Bros. release. 
Exley's novel, a quasi-autobiographical 
story of a man's struggle to cope with his 
environment and with himself, won the 
William Faulkner Award as the year's best 
first-novel and the Rosenthal A ward of 
the National Institute of Arts and Letters 
when it was published in 1968 by Harper 
& Row. 

The film will be the first to be 
produced by Davidson, until recently an 
agent for the International Famous 
Agency, and the third to be directed by 
Till. 

Davidson, a long-time fan of the New 
York Giants professional football team, 
became interested in Exley's novel when 
he found that it contained references to 
famous alumni of the Giants, such as 
Frank Gifford, Charley Conerley, Kyle 
Rote and the rest. The novel, however, is 
not about football; it concerns a man 
who, in battling to find himself, discovers 
that, as Davidson says, "he is never a 
participant in life, he is only a fan." 

THE OBSERUa FRIDAY, MARCH '13, 1970
PAGE 6 

Confusion over future of black concentrations 
by Bob Fulton 
A misunderstanding between Father Edgar J. Whelan and Alumni Hall has caused much confusion on the life of the Black Concentration on campus. 
On March I, Father Whelan was invited to Alumni Hall by Hall President Tim Shaeffer to 





Indy modernization 
Modernization of Indiana's state government will be the topic of a March 20 conference at the Center for Continuing Education. 
Invited to the meeting, spon­sored jointly by the University and the Indiana state division of the American Asociation of University Women (AAUW), are several thousand businessmen, politicians, members of the judi­ciary, churchmen, educators and other interested citizens across the state. 
Matthew E. Welsh, a former governor of Indiana, will key­note the conference at 10 a.m., and his address will be followed by separate and concurrent dis­cussions in five key areas of state government reform. The chair­men and panelists in these areas are as follows: 
-"The Indiana Legislature," 
chairman Richard C. Bodine, 
former speaker of the Indiana 
House of Representatives, and 
panelists Dr. Otis R. Bowen, 
speaker of the Indiana House 
and Leonard H. Opperman, former state senator. 
Going to the Concert? 
Stop by America afterwards 

for soft music, soft lights and a quiet plac to taJk. Open 11 PM to lAM REDUCED ADMISSION SAT.: $.75/couple 
I----~·--~.-~---=$.=50,.._/=si'-"~ng...,le,__________, 


New Challenges to Constitutional Democracy in the Atlantic Community MARCH 15, 16, 171970 
Student Participation is encouraged -admission free 
Sunday, March 15, 1970 8:00 PM Session Chairman Stephan D. Kertesz-Director, West European Studies p University of Notre Dame "The Interaction of Domestic and Foreign Policies"-Henry Koeppler-Warden, Wilton Park-Sussex, England 
Monday, March 16, 1970 9:00AM Session Chairman MatthewA.Fitzsimons-Editor,ReviewofPolitics University of Notre Dame 
"Current Challenges to Democracy in the United States" -Glen Tinder-Professor of Political Science-University of Massachusetts­Boston, Massachusetts 
"Challenges to Democracy in Canada"-Douglas Verney-Professor of Political Science-York University-Toronto, Canada 
2:00PM Session Chairman FrederickJ.Crosson-Dean,CollegeofArtsandletters University of Notre Dame 
"Challenges to Democracy in Britain and France" -Jean Blondei-Visiting Professor of Political Science-Carleton University-Ottawa, Canada 
"The Crisis of Parliamentary Government in Italy: Some reflections on its causes and possible outcomes" -Giovanni Bognetti-Professor of Law-University of Urbino-Milano, Italy 
8:00 PM Session Chairman Vincent P. DeSantis-Chairman, Depar~ment of History University of Notre Dame 
"The Withering Away of Western Liberal Democracy" ­Anthony Hartly-Editor, Interplay-New York City 
_____C__EN_TE_R FOR CONTINUING 

discuss the role of hall govern­ment and its responsibilities to the residents it represents. In the course of the meeting, Tim Shaeffer asked Father Whelan to explain a line in a letter he wrote to all hall governments on guidelines to room selections. 
-"The Executive Branch of Indiana Government," chairman Harold W. Handley, former Indi­ana governor, and panelists Robert L. Rock, former Indiana lieutenant governor and Mrs. Frank H. Cox of the League of Women Voters. 
-"Financing State Govern­ment," chairman Marshall F. Kizer, state senator, and panel­ists Eldon F. Lundquist, state senator, and Mrs. Carlyn E. Johnson, adjunct assistant professor at the Indianapolis 
Law  School of Indiana Univer­ 
sity.  
"Local  Government  in  

Indiana," chairman Lloyd M. Allen, mayor of South Bend, and panelists John J. Frick, state senator, and John W. Walls, deputy mayor of Indianapolis. 
-"Party Organization and Politics in Indiana," chairman Samuel Mercantini, Mishawaka Democratic Party chairman, and panelists Thomas F. Broden, director of urban studies at Notre Dame, and Jack Colwell, political writer for the South Bend Tribune. 
The line reads,"Moreover, no ro­oms are to be set aside on the basis of race, religion, or nation­al order." 
The Alumni Hall government felt that it was endangering the existance of the Black Concen­tration. Father Wl1elen said Tu­esday that he had told themtha£ 
~he University was in no position to tell the blacks they could not ive together, but the University would not allow halls to mark rosters on the criterion stated. If 
they  wished  to  live  together,  
they  could  pick  their  rooms  as  
such.  

On March 9, the hall govern­ment issued a statement declar­ing that they and the Afro-A­merican Society would challenge the University's ruling which, they felt, endangered the black concentration. 
When confronted with the statement Father Whelan reaf­firmed the University's position, and said that he felt there 11..\ld been a "misunderstanding" of what he had said at the Alumni meeting. 
"If the blacks have done anything on this campus they've told the whites they have a problem and the whites had better sit down and face their problems. This message was spoken to the campus through the Black wncentrations. "It's a message this campus has to hear. I have said nothing to Alumni Hall that the University will not sanction the Black concen­tration." said Father Whelan. 
When asked if the University's ruling had anything to do with the HEW, Whelan answered, 

Dr. James Shannon to speak here 
Dr. James P. Shannon, former Washington Hall. auxiliary bishop of St. Paul­His lecture, sponsored by the 
Minneapolis and currently vice Student Union Academic Com­president of St. John's College, mission, will be on "Changing Santa Fe, N.M., will speak the Church by Directive and by 
Sunday (March 15) at 8 p.m. in Consensus." the University of Notre Dame's The 49-year-old educator left 
"One would have to go a very we're going to do." long way to prove we have Art McFarland, pre:;ident of segregation in our dormitory the Afro-American Society said housing here." One argument "Basically, to sum it up, it is for 
that Whelan said suggested the purposes of identity and what possibility of segregation would 
we term survival. However, in be marked rosters. 

the past the University has Alumni Hall feels that the 
spread us out when we got here; University has given the respon­and one of the amazin.s realities 

sibility of room assignment to is that black folk haYe a highthe hall. 
dependence on one another--es­Says Don Mooney, Hall Sena­pecially in a predomimtntly 99% 

tor, "What he (Father Whelan) 
white environment. We have no 

seems to be saying is that it is up other choice but to look to 
to the hall to do it (assign others, to Black students ..." rooms), and that's exactly what McFarland said. 
SMC Alumnae to meet 
The annual spring meeting of the Board of Directors of the Alumnae Association of Saint Mary's College will convene this weekend, March 13 and 14, on campus. Mrs. Michael M. Donovan, of Houston, Texas, president of the international association, will preside over the. two-day meeting. 
Highlighting the Board's schedule will be a reception in Stapleton Lounge followed by a candlelight dinner in the College Dining Hall welcoming the Class of 1969 into the Alumnae Association. Mrs. Timothy P. Galvin, treasurer of the Association, will deliver the welcoming address issuing a challe'nge to the seniors as educated women to commit themselves to responsible community involvement. Responding for the new members will be Miss Rosemary 
Rinella, Senior Class president. 
In sessions schedLied fo, Friday afternoon and Saturday, the Board will discuss final plans for the annual R.eunion, June 12-15. Miss Janice Wheaton, recently named Director of Placement Service~·Student Personnel at Saint Mary's, will discuss a proposal for alumnae assistance for placement within their home communi! ies. Also on the Board's agenda is a discussion of the Alumnae Fund program. 
With a membership of over 9,000 former students and graduates, the Saint Mary's Alumnae Association is currently in its 9lst year, one of the nation's oldest women's college alumnae associations. Its members reside in all 50 states and 40 countries throughout the world. 
the active ministry last year, resigning his auxiliary bishop's post in June and marrying in August. He was orda,ned in 1946 and consecrated a bishop 
in 1965. 
He headed the College of St. Thomas from 1956 to 1966, when he left to become pastor of St. Helena's Church in Minne­apolis, Minn. He has been honored by both Minnesota and Yale as an outstanding alumnus, and has received numemus other awards from civic and religious groups. At St. John's, an inter-. denominational college, he heads the Graduate Institute in Liberal Education. 
72 pages of color ... with a ·'whole new world" for pipe and cigar smokers. We'll include a "trial run" of our famous3 StarTobacco, 
toe! 
For your free catalog and snmple, write Dept. C, 
17 SOUTH WABASH AVE. CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 60603 


M. Lee Peterseim, (right) South Bend sales manager for the Aluminum Company of America, presents a $1000 grant from Alcoa to Dr. Frederick J. Crosson, (center)' dean of the College of Arts and Letters at the University of Notre Dame. FrederickS. Beckman, professor of art and director of the industrial design program, looks on. The award will encourage design students to enter Alcoa's twelfth annual StudeQt Design Merit Award Program. 
WASHINGTON (UPI)­
Ending a five month search, President Nixon announced yesterday his choice of Curtis W. Tarr, a 45 year old Pentagon official, former univeristy president and a World War II draftee, to be director of the Selective Service System. 
Presented to newsmen at the 

White House, the proposed 
successor to Gen. Lewis B. 
Hershey had kind words for 
today's young people and for 
the draft-hut carefully avoided 
comment on proposals for an all 
volunteer armed force. 
He commended the "idealism" of a presidential commission's recent proposal that the draft he replaced by an all volunteer force by June 30 next year, but said he preferred to save his "strong feelings" on the issue for testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee. 
The committee torpedoed an earlier Nixon candidate for the job, Charles J. Dibona, partly because of his open advocacy of 


~d~~~burgh replies toNutting backers 
Nutting for President !lead­quarters announced last night that they had received a letter from· Father Theodore liesburgh C.S.C., stating that he would remain uninvolved in the current controversy over the proposed Chancellor-President form of university administration. 
The  text  of  Fr.  Hesburgh 's  
March  6  letter  reads:  "Dear  
NFI'II,  

I am reluctant to write an organization rather than a per­son, hut I want to acknowledge the several letters you sent me with the enclosures. 
"My own position is relatively simple. Any change of goverance here at the University w.ould come from the Board of Trust­ees, not from me. I think it inappropriate that I become involved in any discussion of the matter prior to a decision on their part. As far as I am concerned, your group or any­one else is perfectly entitled to make whatever efforts you wish in these matters. 
Devotedly in Notre Dame, Father Hesburgh, C.S.C. An anonymous spokesman for 

Nutting for President Head­quarters stated that further ef­forts in their drive for admin­istrative reform would be divid­ed into two areas: political activity and educational activity. 
For political activities, the group will present a position paper this Tuesday, March I 7, to the University Forum. They will also present the proposal to Father Hesburgh, the Studetn Life Council and any other 

ives" of the organization, the 
responses of various faculty 
members to the campaign, and 

excerpts from the Observer 
(Mar. 3, 1970) and the Scho­
lastic (Jan. 16) concerning the 
Nutting for President movement. 
In its educational campaign, 

the group announced that they 
quarterly 

spheres--in political process, 
ethical and religious norms, 
racial and social tensions, and in 
cultural and technological 
developments." He said that 

eventually the editorial direction 
of the quarterly would be the 
responsibility of the Institute's 
graduate students. 
The journal's 96-page first 

edition treats the issue of "Edu­
cation Without Schools," and 
contributors include Paul Good­
man and Robert Havigh urst. 
Subsequent themes will include 
"Black Education in America," 
"Values in Education," "Drugs 
and Education," and "The 
Future of Catholic Education." 
The first major study of 

Catholic education, sponsored by the Carnegie Foundation and published in 1966, was done at approach to the examination of public and non-public, formal and informal education. "To­day's ferment and reform,"l Lannje stated, "create almost 'instant interaction between 
PAGE 7 


Tarr appointed 
practical joke, and that the intend to increase efforts to proposal isn't a practical impos­communicate to the Notre Dame sibility." Also included in the community the nature of the 
second letter was a "more Chancellor-President structural precise statement of the object.:­revision. Two projects which 
help to allow for a "meaningful dialogue" over the issue were mentioned. "A Nutting Night" on Friday March 13 at the St. Mary's College Coffee House is the first. The second is the distribution of information dur­ing the Junior Parent's Weekend, March 12-14. 
•IS formed 
a  volunteer  force,  and  the  
President  never  made  the  
appointment.  

Sen. John C. Stennis, D Miss., the committee chairman, said he had met Tarr and "my impression was good," although I didn't make a final commitment. lie has some fine qualities." 
No senate opposition to Tarr surfaced yesterday and it appeared likely he would be confirmed to head the draft system that the controversial Hershey ran for 2l) years before 
Nixon made him a special advisor­on military manpower and 
mobilization. 
Tarr, 6 fool 6 and soft spoken, said he was reluctantly leaving as assistant Air Foce secretary for manpower and reserve affairs hut did so because 
Nixon insisted he was the best 
man to succeed Hershey. 
As for the draft, Tarr said, "I can say I was drafted in I 943 and enjoyed the experience." He said "I realize how important the experience was to me and continues to be." 
Tarr served 18 months in the Army, with combat duty in Europe. He rose to the rank of technician fourth class. 
A native of Stockton, Calif., and an unsuccessful Republican for Congress in that state in 1958, Tarr was president of Lawrence University, a private coeducational school of I ,200 students at Appleton, Wis., from 1963 until he went to the Pentagon last June. 
Also, while earning a doctorate at Stanford University in California, he -served as assistant dean of the school of humanities and sciences. 
I THH 
~ducation and changes in many 
SHIRE

Notre Dame, and the Uni~rsity 
Keenan-Stanfordis currently a national center for Coffee House

research on the problems of diocesan parochial school
t Open Sat. IOpm-lam 
_s_y_s_e_m_s.__________...L._____________--I 
1 

STUDENT UNION ACADEMIC COMMISSION SMC ACADEMIC ACTIVITIES ORGANIZATION 
present 
former Catholic Bishop excommunicated at Marriage 

spea"lng on 
"Change in the Church by Directive and by Consensus" 
8:00 p.m. Sunday, March 15 
Washington Hall 
This weekend the best in American Music 
From Boston, one of the best traditional singers in the nation 
MR. BOB WHITE 
-The Kings of Blue Grass music (Friday Only) 
THE RI.UE GRASS GENTLEMEN . . (They're finger pickin' good) -/ntroduczng a great new group SOFTLy SPOKEN 
FLANNER BASEMENT 
First Act 9:00PM Admission $1.00 First Act after concert $. 75 per couple $.50 per person 
PAGE P. 






UAC hopes it will stay 
by Dan O'Donnel Tom Kronk, chairman of the University Arts Council reported yesterday that although there have been no major contribu­tions to the Arts Center, the Finance Committee is in the process of sending out proposals to forty major corporations and foundations. In addition, Kronk told of a Student Information Committee that will shortly visit adminis­
tration officials to inform them 
of the Council's progress. Kronk 
stated that according to all 
available reports, the Fieldhouse 
is structurally sound and capable 
of maintaining the Council's 
program. He also noted with 
enthusiasm the co-operation and 
communication that the Council 
has achieved among students, 
faculty and administration. 
Kronk expressed his belief 
that the state of the arts at 
Notre Dame is looking "progre-

Design program 

Fourteen mdustrial design stu­dents at Notre Dame will enter Alcoa's Student Design Merit Award Program for the first time this year. To encourage the stu­dents to "think aluminum," Alcoa has awarded the design program a $1000 grant. · 
A total of six schools will take­part in the two-year collabora­tive program, three for the first time and three for their second year. In addition to the grant, each receives free aluminum materials, a film library, techni­cal literature and seminars on campus conducted by Alcoa's ssively better," but stressed what he considered the need for more money to convert the Field­house into a permanent Art Center. 

"This," Kronk contended, "Is the only way that we can bring campus artists together and nurture their talents. The com­munity is still in dire need of realizing the integral part that the Arts must play in a civilized academic community." 
Kronk sees "an intense inter­est" in the arts at Notre Dame and cited the fact that attend­ance at the Student Arts Festival totaled over 2,000 to evidence his opmwn. According to Kronk, the student art galler, largest in Notre Dame history, attracted over I ,600 onlookers. Kronk termed the Festival "a tremendous success and a man­date to the community at large, 
students, faculty and adminis­tration to move forward in our efforts to realize a Center that can be a focal point for our activities." The UAC chairman also noted Father Hesburgh 's comment that the artist was the person who would be best able to save our society. 
Kronk was quick to praise what he termed the "educational advantages of the Arts Center." It should be obvious to anyone that our educational system• is under grave attacks from respon­sible scholars who question its effectiveness and relevance. The bul~ of these objections are to its rigidity. The rigidity of curriculum and the plausability of the lecture method are focal points of this criticism. The Arts periment in innovative ed. ~.:ion and an attempt to provide educational opportunities for people whose structured pro­gram does not include education to the arts." 
Kronk said, "Thus far we have met no opposition to our pro­gram. We have two months left befpre the university decides the fate of the Fieldhouse. We hope that those who make this decision on June I will be educated to the total concept of the Center and realize the relevance of this concept of individual development to the 
community." 
Future favorable 



Black Studies closer to real1ty 

Mart Crowleys ••lrllliE ll3t(),S II~ l[ltiiE 113A\~I[)'~·~ ...is not amusical. 
fvl.rt CioMev .Executive l'locL:e!S D:nri:k D..me Md IHlert JldS .Directed ~~licrn Friecli1
~Mdl'locL:edl:¥ r __ '" n_o_ --·~"""-'-L.I""LI -eJRI-"-··-<0 
IL..l ~ Ltdl'locL:tion .AN.tiorJ\.Jefleldii"'ICtL<eS ~ '-""' vy '-""'~ ~ ---­
A Leon<."-J<A..... " ACnem.!eerw FmJ:lesentdtion 

Premiere Engagement starts Wednesday, Marc~ 18 at The Carnegie Theatre, 1026 N. Rush Street, Ch1cago 
by Mark Day 

The future of the Black Studies Program seems to be very favorable, according to 
Assistant  Professor  Thomas  J.  
Musial,  chairman  of  the  
Collegiate Seminar.  
The  Program . is  now  being  
discussed  by  the  Arts  and  

Letters College Council. Musial says he had been "led to believe that the disposition of the Council is on the whole favorable, and probably will be passed shortly with few, if any, modifications." 
Candidates for the position of Director have been interviewed, and found, according to Musial, to be "Acceptable if not impressive" by the Afro-American Society, the administration, and members of the Acadmeic Department of the 
Black Studies Commission member Thomas Musial. 
. • 
Musial, one of two faculty members selected by Fr. Hesburgh to study the concept of Black Studies in 1968, went on to outline the principles to which the Program is committed. He says there are three such principles: to fulfill "certain educational objectives through the normal procedure" (i.e., college area requirements necessary for graduation); to provide a "solid grounding in methods and substantive knowledge of one of the traditional academic disciplines"; to bring about an "understanding of the contemporary Black experience in terms of the cultural and historical origins." ' 
The program will require twenty-four hours of course work in one of the regular academic departments, plus twenty-four hours in Black Studies courses designated by the Director. Musial contends that will be "consistent with the academic nature and policy of the Arts and Letters College," although academic credit will be given for off-campus experience that is "demonstrably relevant to a student's program of studies." 
As of now, there are two Black Studies course5 being taught under the auspices of the Collegiate Seminar and the English Department. Bill Turner, 
a graduate student in sc-ciol?gy, teaches an Afro-A mencan Culture course, and Professor Richard Bizot teaches a course in Afro-American Art, which concentrates on Black hterature and music since World War II. 
An important goal of the Black Studies Program, according to Musial, is .1 special 5-year course that would offer remedial work to students who may need it once they are admitted. In this way, Musial contends, Notre Dame could admit students who have shown great potential but do not have the regular high school requirements. The program as Musial envisions it would not bt! limited to black students. 
Another goal of the Program, Musial said, is the establishment of an An;hives of Black Arts and Sciences. The An;hives would contain work and historical and scholarly publications pertinent to the Black Studies Program. 

STARTS TONIGHT 

CRESCENT INTERNATIONAL CORD/ALLY INVITES YOU T~ 
THE 


Must show legal proof ofage & Notre Dame ID 
PAGE 9

7118 OBSERfiiR 

UN delegate blocs ·to meet 
The delegates of this year's Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, 
African Block II 0 Model United Nations will ave O'Shaughnessy Hall,
Colombia, Costa Rica, a chance to gather and discuss Dominican Republic, El 
Arab Block strategy with each other at six Salvador, Guatemala, Hati, O'Shaughnessy. block meetings this coming Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, 
week. Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Model U.N. Chairman, Tom McGowan, Meeting Uruguay and Venesuela. Michael Kelly, urged delegates to Co-ordinator ofr the Model 
The blocks will meet in the attend the block meetings and to U.N., announced that the following rooms; draw up appropriate resolutions. various delegations would be Latin America I02 Deh:gate Director Tim Walch grouped under six geographical O'Shaughnessy Hall, reiterated that forty-six 
delegations, some in all six
and/or philosphical blocks and Western Block I03 blocks, arc still open for
each block would meet at 7:30 O'Shaughnessy Hall, delegates. Anyone wishing to
pm on Wednesday, March IX. Communist Block I04 sign up for the Model U.N.,
The various blocks are the O'Shaughnessy Hall, Walch said, should contact him
African Block, the Arah Block, Asain Block 105 the Asian Block, the Communist O'Shaughnessy Hall, at 1291. Block, the Western Block, and the Latin American Block. The 

·HeavyMekong fighting 
African Bloc includes the llelega tes from Chad, Ghana, 
SAIGON (UPI) Vietnamese army were t?laced at
Malawi, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, 
South Vietnamese troops re­seven killed, 28 wounded and
Togo and Upper Volta. The 
ported killing 65 Viet Cong three missing.
Arab Bloc includes Kuwait, 
yesterday in one of two heavy The second battle erupted
Jordan, Lebanon, Libya, 
battles through Mekong River yesterday evening when
Morocco, Saudi Arabia, Syria 
Delta jungles. Field commanders elements of the South
and the United Arab Republic 
appealed for all available air Vietnamese army's 9th Infantry(Egypt). 
support as the second action Division reported six heavy
The Asian Bloc is composed 

raged into the night. contacts with Communist units
of Afghanistan, Burma, India, 
Intelligence reports have I00 miles southwest of Saigon.
Japan, Laos, Nepal, Pakistan, 
indicated that North Vietnamese
China and Thailand. The 
and Viet Cong troops may make
Communist Bloc is Albania 
the delta riccbowl the testing
continued from page I 
Athletic and Convocation Center By el o russian SSR, Cuba: ground for U.S. Vietnamizationhall-fellow luncheons will be featuring the Fifth Dimension. Czechoslovakia, Hungary, program. Most American ground · 
held in Morrissey, Zahm and Poland, Rumania, Ukraniap 
troops have been withdrawn STARTS TONIGHTHrecn-Phillips llalls. At this time On Sunday morning, a special SSR, USSR, and Yugoslavia. 
from the area south of Saigon,the hallfellows will meet with Mass for juniors and their The Western Bloc is Australia 
leaving its defense to Souththe juniors and their parents. parents will be offered in Sacred Austria, Belgium, Canada: Vietnamese.
Luncheon for all juniors and Heart Church. A Communion Denmark, Finland France 
their parents will be served in Breakfast will follow at 9:30am Greece, Ireland, ls;ael, Italy: reported killed in five hours of
the South Dining hall from in the North Dining hall. This Luxembrourg, Netherlands, New fighting that began at I p.m. on
II :30 am to I :00 pm. wiH be the formal closing of the Zealand, Norway, Portugal, the edge of the U Minh Forest, aStartir g at I:00 prn, discus­weekend. Masses will also be South Africa, Spain, Sweden, steaming jungle believed bysions" on the issues of campus life held from II :00 am to 12:00 Turkey, United Kingdom and many Vietnamese to harbor evilwill be conducted. From 1.00 to pm in the chapels of Dillon, the United States. The Latin spirits. Two Communists were2:00 pm, "The Student anrl His Grace, and Morrissey halls. American Bloc includes reported captured in the fightMilitary Obligation" is slated for nine miles north of Thoi Binhthe 1--:ngineering Auditorium, and and 128 miles southwest ofin the Ce'1ter for Continuing 
Four win business contest 
Saigon.
Education the di~cussion will be on Co-cducati m. Prom 2: I 5 to Three students in business tan t professor of management. Losses to men of the 21st 
Division of the South
The semester-long competi­




3: I5 pm, also in the Engineering management have brought horne 
Auditorium, a discussion on a national championship after tion involves decisions and courses of action on hypotheti­
Notre D:rme edncation; while in competition with students from the CCE, the topic will be "The 
more than 40 universities and cal business opportunities Minority Student at Notre 
colleges at Emory University, supplied by the graduate busi­Atlanta, Ga. ness association of Emory
Dame." Participants in the annual University. Students use their
AT 3:3L pm there will be an Administrative Reception at the 
Business Game and Conference background knowledge in tl\e last weekend (March 6-8) in­areas of business, finance,
Center for Continuing Educa­clude two seniors, Henry A. marketing, accounting and
tion. This will last till approx­Cardinali of Fulton, N.Y., and management, along with their
imately 4:30pm. Promptly at 6: I 5 pm, the 
James L. Brown of Elkhart, Ind., skills in computer science and and junior Andrew Dotterweich operations research, to formu­
President's Dinner will begin in from Jackson, Mich. They were late workable solutions to a
Stepan Center. The dinner will be over by 8:30 so that everyone accompained to Atlanta by th-:.ir problem. may attend the concert in the advisor, Donn J. Novotny, assis-The solutions are then tested on a computer and representa­
• tives from participating schools are invited to Atlanta where they must defend decisions and actions before a panel of noted 
Prof 1n conference 

Dr. Dilaver Berberi, assistant Berberi fled the country in the business experts. The Notre
professor of English at Saint early years of World War II for Dame team was selected for first
Mary's, will participate in the Italy where he served in the place at the concluding session
I5th Annual Conference of the underground and acquired International Linguistics fluency in Italian. He added to Saturday. The team was sponsored by
Association in New York, March his language skills learning the Management Club of Notre
14 and IS.llis paper, "My Sons: French and Arabic during rhe as Dame and financed by areaEnglish Yes and No, Albanian Po years he spent in Egypt a 
refugee. business firms, including St.
and Jo," will explore methods of Joseph Bank & Trust Co., Frank
bilingual education and the Dr. Berberi earned his effects of phrasing on the master's and doctorate degrees E. Sullivan Insurance Agency, Valley Bank & Trust Co., and
negativism of preschoolers. in linguistics at Indiana Dr. Bcrbcri contends that a University where he served as South Bend-Mishawaka Area young child's characteristic director of the Arabic program. Chamber of Commerce. The negative response during the He is the author of a textbook team had participated in only phase often referred to ass "the on colloquial Arabic. two previous games. 
terrible twos" is due not only to psychological factors but also to language factors: it is simply easier for a child to say "no" in English than to say "yes". Basing his thesis on personal research carried on with his sons, Dille Selim, 4Yz, and Viktor Ilir 3, who arc bilingual in English and Albanian, Dr. Berbcri offers Lrnguage therapy, the substituting of positive phrasing, 
as  a  possihle  solution  to  
child hood negativism.  
A  native  of  Albania,  Dr.  


St. Mary's SSO presents ADVISE & CONSENT 
with Henry Fonda Peter Lawford 
Tonight 7:00 & 9:30 Carroll Hall $. 75 

•+ 

RIVER PARK 
• I I I I I I I I I I 
MIIHAWAKA 

WINNERI3ACADEMY AWARDSt 
INCLUDING BEST ACTRESS KATHARINE HEPBURN 
JOSEPH e. L€VINE """'" AN A.VCO EMBASSY FILM 
PETER OTOOLE KATHARINE HEPBURN 


.MA.JtrtN POU,_ 
lHE LION IN WINTER 
...wco t:MBAR~Y-PANAVISION• "COLOR Week Days at 6:30-9:00 Sat. & Sun. at I :45,4: I 5, 6:45, 9: IS 
Take Eddy St. to Mishawaka Ave. .------Cloverleaf & continue east on Mish. Ave_____ 

STARTS FRIDAY THE 1 3th 
1'1 

-"I DARE YOU TO SEE IT" 
'• 



FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 1970PAGE10 

Carmen 1n m1n1s 
legs," said II Messaggero critic Rome Opera House put 
ROME (UPI)-
Renzo Rossellini. Carmen in miniskirts for the first 
Miss Bumbry evidently wore time and touched off a storm of 
tights beneath her short cos­protest vesterdav bv critics. tumes, which ranged in length · They didn't like the fact the 
from just above the knee to half Opera was sung in French, its way up the thigh. The chorus original language, and tut-tutted wore elastic topped black. lace 
over the miniskirts worn on stockings which stopped just . stage by all the women in the 
above the knee and showed a healthy expanse of flesh be­

cast. tween stockings and skirts. 
The only thing about the new 
The first indications of mo­produ.:tion Wednesday the cri­
dern dress came when the girlstics agreed they liked were the 
employed at the tobacco factorylong and slender legs of Amer­
where Carmen works troopedican soprano Grace Bumbry. Her 
onto designer Renato Guttoso's short modern costume, tight in 
Italian looking town square and the bodice and full in the skirt, 
wearing cotton minidresses cov­showed her slim but voluptuous ered with watermelon shaped 
U.S. Represe_ntative Jake Pickle (D-Texas) brandishes Irish shillelagh presented to him• figure to advantage. 
aprons printed with jumbo polka by Representative John Brademas (D-Ind) in settlement of a wager on the Cotton Bowl"Lovely figure, beautiful dots. 

football game. 

Romans show human side of designing 
Rome --an historical center Seeler, professor of architecture, building has many sides," he students urged that the living pare themselves for the Italian of architectural masterpieces -­the students offered comments, explained, "and here you can see quarters be moved closer to the experience by reading and study­is also an exceptional teacher of advice and criticism for their it every day, from every angle; center of Rome, where contact ing. "This is not a big holiday," the human side of design, classmates. with traffic and without traffic, with the people and the historic one student suggested, "but an according to four architecture The human element inherent witj1 people and with no people, buildings would be easier. They opportunity to live and do, as majors at Notre Dame. in the most ancient buildings in all kinds of weather, during complained that the group well as read and study." 
James Kelliher, Westwood, impressed Kelliher most. "These the day and at night." formed "an American ghetto," In the fall, Saint Mary's Mass.; Kim Kristoff, Alexandria, buildings were designed for men Marin agreed, adding that mt the Hotel Raganelli, six miles College will inaugurate its first Va.; Carlos Marin, Lima, Peru, --people --and are still being each visit to a well-designed from Rome, hindering their academic year abroad program and Evan La Due, Decatur, designed with their life-styles in structure yielded a new insight assimilation of the language and in Rome, and the two institu­Mich., are among 43 architecture mind. In the United States, into detail, over-all design, or the values of the city. tions hope to cooperate in living majors and 3 art students study­people have to change their life subtle relationship of details to They also urged their col­and classroom arrangements. ing in Rome as part of Notre styles for the buildings." the shape, purpose and structure leagues at Notre Dame to pre­Dame's first year-long academic La Due called the opportunity of the building. program conducted in that city. to view well-designed structures The students added that the 
Sheedy commentson
Describing their reactions to the from many sides and under opportunity to live with Romans new program in a taped inter­man¥ conditions a prime advan­and to get to know their 
view in Rome with Dr. Otto F. tage of the program. "A good architecture was enriched by the academic emphasis of the curri­
changes in theology
culum. Architecture students in 
Rome take eight courses during 
the year, including design, sculp­
ture, structural mechanics, his­Changes in Catholic theology issue of the ·Boston University 
torical research and Italian. The are affecting the content, School of Theology's alumni 
opportunity to integrate new methodology, structure and magazine, pointed to the demis<~ insights or artistic concepts into objectives of what until recently of the approach to Catholic design work immediately was was a field known for its theology where "the teacher's 
Symposium 

seen as a significant stimulation sameness and familiarity, accord­aim was to communicate th'~ of artistic effort. 
ing to the dean of theology and treatise, the student's to learn In suggesting improvements theological institutes. it." for the second academic pro­The Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, Father Sheedy, who was on 
gram to begin next fall, the C.S.C., writing in the January leave from Notre Dame during the last academic year while serving as a. consultant to the seven-school Boston Theological Institute, also cited the follow­ing trends in Catholic theology: 
March 19 

--A growing number of coalitions embracing some of the 166 Catholic major seminaries with enrollments of fewer than 50 students and bringing ·the 
News Meeting 
Sp.m. today 
theologates of religious orders under the wing of urban univer­sities, Catholic and Protestant. 
An increasing concen with pastoral theology, spurred by a specialization of ministries
FINAl.l. Y!!l 
to serve distinct groups, such as the poor and racially oppressed,
THE SHIRE 
and by the new possibilities for
Keenan-Stanford Coffee House 
communication opened up by
featuring the sounds of 

liturgical renewal. 
PAT CLINTON 
An enlarged view of
JIM BALCERSKI 

theology which uses as sources
FOSTER & SMOLICK 
or cognate learnings the research
ELLEN ZUICHER 
of Protestant scholars, the ir­
and introducing 

sights of existential philosophers
THE I 00% AMERICAN DOG 
and the findings of psychology 
Open Saturday 10: 00-1:00 

and anthropology, in addition to the traditional sources --bib!J­cal passages, conciliar and magi!>­terial documents, and standard 
Admission: Residents $.25 Non-Residents$. 75 
Juniors, why not stop by 
theological writings. --A renewed interest in
AMERICA, 
:;ystematic theology which n~­
with your parents, tonight. 
flects an open-ended theological
for soft music, soft lights and a quiet place 
speculation rather than the eru­dition-oriented dogmatic theolo­gy of the past.
to talk. Open 11 PM to lAM 
Contemporary Catholic theology, Father Sheedy con­cludes, "is a theology in and for
REDUCED ADMISSION SAT.: $.75/couple 
the Church, a pilgrim Church,
$.50/single 
changing and developing." 






AlDAY, MARCH 13, 1970 THE O&rERUER. 
PAGE 11 

Letters to the Editor 
The Wrath of Secada 
Editor: 
It is seldom that I have felt the way I do now; and the big reason of the feeling will be clucida ted upon in this letter. 
The Observer has lately been in the guise of something which no newspaper should be -a biased reporter of the news. You castigated Rich Moran of the Scholastic for not following certain norms of news reporting, when the Scholastic never does pretend to he anything more than, if you will, one gigantic essay, with diverse views pre­sen ted. They do not pretend to be objective-that is the job of a newspaper. Yours, alas, has failed in this respect. 
In your editorial today, you say, among other things, that you do not reprint the flyer statements of a candidate. Per­haps you should have informed Glen Corso, your news editor, that such is the procedure in your organization. Just read today's article on Thrasher-­perhaps the only way Glen Corso can write something without misrepresenting it is by quoting extensively, but this is a direct contradiction to your statement. 
As for your news layout-! 
have been in varied publications, from yearbooks to magazine to newspaper, and every printer with whom I have come into contact has shown and told me about the very diverse methods of layouts, and how space considerations hardly if ever demand a certain type 'of layout: That is, YOU decide how your publication will be printed, and you can use great discretion in the layouts. In this case I would suggest that you speak to your printer, and learn a little more about publishinR. 

As for The Observer's "firm" stand behmd Thrasher and Murray-really, anyone who knows how the voting went (5-4) would fain call such support firm. And from what I have heard, the one abstention did so at considerable pressure from another of your staff. WSND and the Scholastic were both overwhelmingly for Krashna-Winings, and it seems to me that they were not quite as "firm" in their statements of support. 
Speaking of which, I really dug your editorial for Ann Marie Tracey. The effect came some­thing like: "Both candidates are almost identical, so let's pick one by how much we dig her personality." Such a cliche-filled editorial I have never read, even 
from Don Hynes last year. 
And your claims that you do not pretend to editorialize within the news column is either a mistaken one, made from ignorance, or it is a barefaced lie. 
Read yesterday's Ohserver,the last 

line of the Krashna article . . . "Krashna and Winings do not Plan to let thel·r term 1·n off.tce 
• kn t" d.
l)ect)me onc own or me 1a­
IRISH RACING GREEN 
26,000 miles; radio, fully equipped, good condition, must sell soon. ST. PATRICK'S DAY SPECIAL: only $1599.99 
684·2586 
JOBS! JOBS' and more JOBS! Stu: dents, Teachers. Stateside and Inter­national Jobs. Recreational Jobs: Year-round Jobs; summer JobS. A'll cx:cupallom and trades. Enjoy a vaca· tlon while you earn. Hurry! The besl jobs are taken early. Write: ".lOBS"! 
P.O. BoK 4 75, Dept. CP 163·1, Lodl Calif. 95240 

tion between students and the innuendos, etc., that they men must try to overcome the elected Student Body President
administration." Not only is this voted for Phil-especially in biases inherent in them as Cavanaugh where I lived). were hurt this year by what
editorializing, but it is a lie. human beings-a hard job. But it Finally, I must ask that in is not impossible to be fair and! people thought The Observer
Then your newspaper has made 
view of what has been a think that we have been that. We was trying to do. I regret that a few misrepresentative remarks relatively clean campaign, I must have presented both sides of the fact for Tom's sake but most ofabout Krashna. When he was ask that you perhaps rethink story all year long and through­all for The Observer's sake andhere at Flanner, someone asked about the Principle of Unan­out the election. I don't know of the people who work here. 
him about his idea that all Imity. Your attempts to get any more that we can do.
students be required to take a You are en titled to your
"your man" in has lead to the When talking about our edi­

black studies course. Krashna opmwn of myself and my 
degeneration of The Observer, torial board meeting you begin
was very surprised that this editorship. I must take responsi­
and you have been blind to it. your remarks by saying "anyone
would come from such a publi­bility for all that goes on here; 
Last year, under Luking, The who knows how to voting went.. 
cation as yours. For the fact which includes the public's im­
Observer made some advances to .." It is indeed interesting that
remains that he said that he pression of The Observer. 
be~.-oming something. Your act­you presume to know how the
would have the black studies 
ions in the past weeks have editorial board of The Observer
open to all those who wish to 
negated it all. voted in a closed session. We
take it, and that it would be a Now unite 
Sincerely, voted by secret written ballot
recommended course. If you Walter G. Secada
care to look in Webster's, you and so I can not understand recently supported Tom414 Flanner
would find that there is quite a your claim that there was an Thrasher in his unsuccessful bid difference betwixt recom­Editor's note abstention which was made "at for SBP. In the wake of Dave
mended and required-enough to Editor's Note: I hope that your considerable pressure from Krashna's overwhelming victory
alienate a lot of people. another of your staff." What I think it behooves all of us to
point can be answered adequate-WSND and The Scholastic do
And now let us go into your 
ly, to show that we still maintain stop and think about one of the 
poll. To say that you are more about their editorial votes is major issues brought out during
some standard of journalistic their own business. We stand
reliable than another campus the campaign -unity. Now that
ethics here-and that we always firmly behind ours. The mem­
organization seems to me to be a 
have. the election is over and we have remark which would need con­Throughout the campaign, hers of the board agreed to back chosen our SBP we must guardsiderable backing-which is con­candidates were quoted "exten-The Observer endorsement 100% against petty-factional politics.spicuously absent in your re­sively., The article about Dave even if they favored the other Foremost in our minds should marks. For your edification Krashna on Friday was almost candidate. They all stood for not be whether our individual ~ WSND's polls are weighted, and one continuous quote (much to one candidate or another and candidate won or lost but some they are done by a method my professional chagrin). Other did tell people their individual of the concrete goals which were which is scientific. They further­articles about him and other feelings. But I am sure that you brought to light and somewhat more go off-campus, an area candidates were written in the cannot find one who would say re-defined -hall autonomy,which both your poll and the same style. It is not always the that he did not support The co-education, academic reform Thrasher campaign have not best technique but it is a Observer's endorsing Thrasher, 
etc. Some "die-hards" may argue bothered with. legitimate one. Indeed, para-as an Observer editor, 100%. that party politics and conflict It seems to me, that there phrasing might have been better The observations about layout 
are the basis of the American 

may be more than a modicum of at times but it was not done. that were given to you by your political experience-and I would truth in Pete Peterson's accusa­You have to realize that the printer friends may have been 
hasten to agree. It should be tions at your publication, and to students writing news stories are true enoughfor their publica­noted, however, that in its self righteously assert that you just that-students. Their writing tions but if you question them infancy our country delegated are objective (when we all know may not always be the best-but further I am sure that they will such conflict to a subordinate that any psychiatrist will deny it is usually accurate and fair. all tell you that each publication 
position and unified to achieve this ability to anyone), without The line you quote from the has its own unique layout 
certain basic freedoms, rights inve.stigating the charges more Krashna story indeed should techniques. We happen to be 
and goals. I contend that we at 

closely, smacks of Tricky Dick­have been qualified by a re-hampered by space limitations 
"du Lac" are presently in this ey's famous one-liner during his ference; such as "According to and by the fa~t that a lo~ of our :'infant stage" and must, simi­disastrous campaign against Pat Krashna or according to Winings layout. work IS done at times of larly, unite behind Dave Krashna Brown in California. When he etc."I must admit that all of ou; .. the mght when most Notre 
if we hope to be successful in was confronted with not only reporters have not learned all the. Dame students have ~een in bed 
our quest of those changes the Checkers case, but other journalistic necessities and at for thod~rs. ti_ co~ldl mdeed use which will change Notre Dame 
. grea IScre 1on m ayout J>ut I
times where his conduct lacked into a real community. Dave has 
times even those who know just don't h ve th f ·t
something, he sucked his gut in, them are prone to err. But we do . a e lme o to the ideas but their successful
.t · . . . always dec1de how The Observer
took a deep breath, glared at the 
not ed1 ona11ze m our newswnt-. implementation depends on stu­
accusing reporter and said: "I ing as a policy. We may make w~l look. The Observer has four dent support -We voted him in am an honest man." mistakes but every newspaper ~~~-f~~ent layout . design now it's up to us to get behind Mr. DeSapio, I accuse The does. When they occur we are m lVI uals who design the him. As a candidate he won our Observer of being something less more than willing to correct layout for the paper during the 
votes -as our SBP he deserves than it has pretended to be in them. As to the case in point I w~ek. W_e thought that we were our support. the past few weeks. Tom have checked with David d fau dunng the campaign. You Thrasher is an extremely capable Mark and the reporter did fa~~o a_re welcome to help out it you Sincerely, 
person; indeed, he is the only l .f th . like. Steve Martinek 
c an y e pomt enough. They Regrettably I must agree with 
bright spot in his whole cam­133 Howard Hall
did say that they did not 

paign organization. And I think conceive of their role as impar-you that Tom's chances of being he deserves more than your tial mediators. When they go to ,---------~---=-------------~ attempts to make him something 
the administration, however,which he is not. In trying to they said they would be going 

STMARY's COFFEE HOUSE 
undermine the other candidates representing the students' pointyou are doing everyone a dis: of view. 

favor, and the campaign which That fact would have been 
SATURDAY NIGHT
Thrasher had so much wanted to clarified earlier if someone 
be free of mud has been sullied would have brought it to our by biased reporting on your 
OCTUPUS JAZZ AND ROCK BAND
attention. 

part. I feel sorry for Tom Thrasher-if he wins, what price You have a point when you 
9pm to 12pm 75C
victory?, and if he looses, it will say that no one can be totally have been through no little objective. You accuse me of effort on your part to produce selfrighteously claiming to be such a backlash (in the same objective. You say that it is manner as Joel Connelley's little impossible. But in your first flyer backing John Mroz last paragraph you claim that ob-
year which was distributed l·n . jectivity is the "job" of the 
paper. Actually, we are both halls where Mroz had been confusing words. The job of the strong. When many people read 
paper is to be as "fair" and as it, they were so disgusted w1.th 
objective as possible. Newspaper 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIP~;;~;;;;;;;;;;~;;~ 
FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 1970

PAGE 12 

Kentucky ousts Irish, Carr shines 
by Mike Pav lin coming from outside, and keyed Observer Sports Editor a Wildcat patterned offense Columbus, Ohio-
which refused to quit during a fantastic second half. 

Kentucky's unremitting 
Notre Dame simply couldn't

offense and unstoppable center 
keep pace with Adolf Rupp and

Dan Issei wore down an Irish 
his number one ranked Wildcats,

hoop quintet to win the opening 
who shot 67.6% in the second 

game of the NCAA Mid east 
half and 59.7% in the entire

regional, 109-99. 
game.

Issei scored 44 points, most 
Johnny Dee opened the same 
JIM MURRAY A Three Act Play 
C 1970, Los Angeles Tlm111 


(News Item: "Two UC Riverside journalism staffers admit participating in UC Santa Barbara riot, stoning police and writing of exploits in university newspaper. While professional journalists winced, their editor said the staff supported them. 'Acted in the best traditions of journalism.. .far more relevant,' he defended.") 
We bring you now a 3-act play starring Hildy Johnson and a 

~telephone. As we look in, the curtain is rising on Hildy shouting into mouthpiece to the sports desk from a phone in the press box at Churchill Downs: 
"Hello, Boss?! Boss, have I got a story for you! The scoop of the century! The world's greatest piece of relevant journalism! Boss, hold onto your paper clips. Boss, THE KENTUCKY DERBY WAS FIXED! Am I positive? Can a bear bite? Boss, we have it exclusive! That beetle that won the race couldn't beat me! He was shot so full of dope he was leaking in the parade to the post. What? Oh, the chemist was fixed. Am I sure of my facts?! Boss, was Hitler psycho?! Are rabbits fertile? Yeah, yeah, I know who the guy was. Who? ME, Boss! Little old syringe-maker ME! Boss, is THAT a story!? Can you get Pulitzer on the phone? Boss, I waffl: a by-line six inches tall! Whaddaya mean, it's against the law? Boss, where you been keeping yourself? Forget Peter Zenger. Boss, you're old-fashioned. You don't report news, you MAKE news! Now, suppose it had just been a normal, honest race? Ask yourself-is THAT a story?! Now gimme rewrite and make the bonus out to 'cash' so the old lady won't get any of it. Whaddaya mean I'll face a jail sentence? Boss, a newspaperman's sources are PRIVILEGED. Isn't that what Benjamin Franklin and Horace Greeley fought for?" 
Act Two takes us to a phone booth hard by the first tee of the 

U.S. Open. Hildy is whispering into it to the sports desk. 
"Boss, are you ready for this?! How would you like a 1,000-1 shot to win the U.S. Open? A kid who never won a tournament in his life and qualified only because a small-pox epidemic hit his section. What?! Boss, he can't break 85 on a pitch-and-putt but is this a human interest story? Whaddaya mean, how do I know he'll win? Boss, get this-come closer, I have to whisper-Boss, I'm his CADDY! Are you beginning to get the picture? I'm gonna caddy barefoot and I been soaking my toe in hot water and alum every night. I put the glue on in the men's room. Boss, this guy is gonna be on every green in ONE. He11 be so far ahead by.Jhe time the TV 
,. cameras and the USGA gets wind of it that he'll be able to win if he goes 20-over on the last two holes! Boss, will that sell papers! Is that relevant journalism? You can bet your ulcer pills. I can see the headline now: "Unknown Tip-Toes to Open Win.' By the proprietor of the toe. Get the banners out, Boss, we got the sports scoop of the century." 
Act Three takes us to ringside at the heavyweight title fight. Hildy is trying to make himself heard long-distance above the roar of the crowd: 
"Boss? Hildy here! Boss, can we make the replate? I got a story that should make me president of the Columbia School of Journalism. The champ got knocked out tonight, right? Wrong, Boss. The champ slipped. That donkey he was fighting couldn't raise a soap bubble. Boss, the champ slipped, I sneaked over and CHLORO-FORMED him! Your own little old boy done it! This is bigger than the time I impersonated the home plate umpire at the All-Star game! It's bigger than the time I was the chief umpire at Wimbledon and I called everything out till the 64th seed won. Boss, maybe you better call Huntley-Brinkley, this is BIG! Listen, Boss, I won't be horne tomorrow. I'm drilling a hole in the Am'erica's Cup defender." 
Our epilogue offers, finally, on stage left, a voice from behind the curtain: 
"Boss, this is Hildy. I am down here in the Gran Chaco where I went as a war correspondent. Boss, did you read of that big victory by the rebels where they blew up the bridge and the troop trains? Well (chuckle) that was your boy, Boss. The government troops cleared the area but they let Yours Truly in with his war correspondent's arm-band. They didn't even search me for the dynamite. Is that a gas! Now, Boss, I don't care who wins, really. I mean, with wars, ya see one ya seen 'em all. But is it a great story?
' 'How I Captured The Gran Chaco With Pencil And Paper," by El Jefe Johnson. It really READS, eh, Boss? Well, it was fun while it lasted. They came for me, Boss. Of course, I pleaded the Geneva Convention and the Articles of War for Non-Combatant Journalists. Oh, I squealed to high heaven. But, Boss, some guys got no respect for journalistic ethics. If you ever come down here, Boss, make 'em give you my head anyway. Don't bother to look for the rest of me. This is a recording." 
lineup he used against Ohio U., but his squad shot "only" 52% during the game and never could get their great fast break going. The bright spot for the Irish was Austin Carr who put in a variety of shots for 52 points. 
The Irish took the early lead in the contest, and spent twenty minutes staving off the beautifully constructed K U offense. Jackie Meehann got two early buckets for N D against Rupp's man-to-man defense which had Terry Mills on Carr. 
The Wildcats made the 6'8W' Issei the focal point of their offense, working him free for many shots at the top of the key. This, however, gave the Irish an advantage underneath, where Collis Jones (guarding Pratt) and Sid Catlett (entering at 14:06) did a fine job. 
At II :52, KU's star soph Tom Parker picked up his fourth foul of the contest and ND took a 25-18 lead. the referees were obviously not going to let the game get out of control, and their whistles had both teams in the bonus situation early. 
Carr had difficulty getting his shots off, but came up with key buckets during the second ten minutes. At 8:27 KU closed the gap to 31-30 and Austin canned a turn-around jumper. With Issei 
doing most of the shooting, the Wildcats rallied to 41-40 at 
3:30 where Mike O'Connell (in at S:27) converted four free iliroM. 
Pratt's basket made it 47-46, but Augie scored again and then layed-in a great pass from O'Connell fer the final points of the half, 53-48. Before time ran 
out, however, Jay Ziznewski and Catlett each picked up their third fouls. 
The Irish out-shot K U in ·a: blistering half, 54.5% to 52.6%, and also came out ahead at the foul line, 70.8% to 57.1%. ND took a 24-22 rebounding edge with seven going to Jones. Carr's 11 for 16 shooting gave him 27 points while Issei hit 8 of 16 (20 pts.), and Pratt 5 for 9 (I 0). 

Rupp switched to a 1-3-1 zone in the second half and the Irish never quite could solve it. Carr gave ND a 68-65 lead 
d

inaugurating a tremen o~s 
offensive display by both schools. KU's frightening offense continued, machine-like, to get Issei, Pratt, and Parker open for 12 footers. 
At 5:41, Pratt drew his fifth foul, hitting Catlett as Carr scored. But Sid missed the free throw, leaving the score at 87-86 Irish. Then Parker and 
Issei scored from 16 feet and ND needed a bucket to hang on. Jones, however, missed a one and one at 3:59 and 22 seconds later Issei converted a full bonus. 
FG-FGA  FT-FTA Rbds.  Pts.  
Pratt  7-15  0-2  4  14  Gallagher  
Parker  4-7  4-5  6  12  Jones  
Issei  17-28  4-5  11  44  Ziznewski  
Dinwiddie  5-7  1-1  2  II  Meehan  
Hollenbeck  3-5  1-3  4  7  Carr  
Mills  5-7  3-5  s  13  Catlett  
Steele  2-3  4-4  6  8  Sinnott  
Key  0  0  0  0  O'Connell  
Hinga  
Team Rebounds  6  Team Rebounds  
TOTAL  43-72  23-34  44  109 TOTAL  
Kentucky shooting 43-72 for 59.7%  

This switch of four points virtually scaled the verdict at 92-87 as KU continued to n•el off basket after basket in the final minutes. 
KU's balanced attack showed five men in double figures. Pratt had 14 points, Mill 13, Parker 12 and Jim Dinwiddie 11. Jones seconded Carr with 22 markers. Austin hit on 22 of 35 attempts, 63%. 
In the nightcap of the collfge double header, Jacksonville edged Iowa I04-103 as Pembrook Burrows III tipped in a rebound at the buzzer to win it for the Dolphins. Fred Brown had put Iowa ahead with 15 seconds to go but they just couldn't hold on. 
FG-FGA  FT-FTA Rbds.  J>ts.  
2-7  1-2  5  5  
9-17  4-10  9  
1-3  1-1  6  
3-6  1-2  0  7  
22-35  8-8  8  52  
0-2  0-1  5  0  
1-2  2-2  4  4  
1-3  4-5  0  (j  
0-0  0-1  0  0  
6  
39-75  21-32  43  

Notre Dame shooting 39-75 for 52.0% Both teams -16 turnovers 
Sweet Sixteen set to go 
INDIANAP'OLIS (U'PI)­They'll lock the door and pull down the shades in Ripley County Saturday and head for the "big barn"-Hinkle Field­house at Indianapolis-to cheer another David against Goliath. 
The underdog this time is 

unbeaten  South  Ripley,  from  
the  same  Southeastern Indiana  
hills  that  spawned  the  famous  

Indians of Mila,1, who wer.t all the way 1 6 years ago in the Indiana high school basketball tourney. 
Ripley's Raiders, from a four year old, four school consolida­
tion, take on feared Indianapolis Attucks, a three time state champion, in the opener of the three game lndi:mapolis semi­state. 
Muncie Central, winner of five state titles, clashes with Colum­bus in the second game. 
South Ripley numbers only 418 students but at least 2,000 Versailles area fans have adopted the Raiders as "their boys" and will lend their vocal support to a bunch of guys who notched their school's first sectional and regional crowns with victories at Batesville and Connersville. 
Coach Dale Ricketts may not have a Bobby Plump, Milan's masterful magician of the 1950s, but his chief gunner, Kelvin Comer, cannot be discounted. The six foot Comer is averaging 20 points a game and does a lot of feeding to a front line that 

measures 6-3,6-1,6-3. 
The Raiders have zipped through 25 games without a scratch to take the best record into the "Sweet Sixteen." 
Attucks is 22-5 and seek!; its sixth state finals berth. The last time the Tigers made the "Field­
house  Four,"  in  1959,  they  
routed  Kokomo for  the  title,  
92-54.  

Attucks is keyed aroun j a veteran crew that includes Bob Whitley, Wendell Taylor, Gary Maxey and Steve Easley and has to be good to survive the Indianapolis se.ctional. 





