

..v.o_L_._,_v_._N_o_._1_3_2_____________.....;.;;S..;..e_n_•i~ng~the NotrcDame a11d Saiill llfart' 's College n 
Senate filibuster may take place over war 
That statement followed the was clear South VietnameseWASHINGTON (UPI) A disclosure by South Vietnam troops could not mount attacksRepublican senator who often Foreign Minister Tran Van Lam in Laos "without our assistancespeaks for the White House at a Southeast Asia conference and our backing."
hinted yesterday the Senate may in Jakarta that his country's 
The White House statement
be filibustered by opponents of forces periodically have pursued 
did not touch on the question of
legislation intended to force an Communist troops into Laos. 
.possible use of American advi­
end to the U.S. Cambodian in­L11ird said that if South Viet­
sers in Laos. Deputy Press Sec­
cursion. 
namese forces having American 
retary Gerald L. Warren told
Sen. Robert J. Dole, 
advisers went beyond the pres­
newsmen at Key Biscayne, Fla.,
( R.-Kans.), spoke in terms of ent limited scale of forays into 
where President Nixon spent a
keeping the debate going for Laos, that would "not be in 
long weekend, that he did not
"three or four weeks" or more. 
accord'' with a prohibition 
know the extent of South Viet­
That would put off a vote until passed by Congress last year mtmese operatiOns m Laos andmid-June or later. 
against use of U.S. ground com­said: "We do not have AmericanPresident Nixon has pledged hat forces in Laos and Thailand. ground troops in Laos and there to pull all U.S. troops out of But he indicated that had not is no change in our activities inCambodia by June 30, so the 
occurred. Laos." 
delay would make it impossible Th.; present crossings are rare Freidham also said "there arefor final action on the legislation 
and last only a few hours, Laird. no U.S. ground troops in Laos." Profeaor Donald Kommenbefore then. 
said. 
If the troops were out by time Earlier. Defense Department
the matter came to a vote in the Spokesman Jerry W. Friedham Fear Nixon Campaign House of Representatives, it ap­acknowledged U.S. advisers may peared unlikely the proposal accompany South Vietnamese 
would find much support. troops who enter Laos to "take 
Kommers supports proposals
Defense Secretary Melvin R. protective reaction." 
Laird, testifying before a Senate Chairman J. William Fulbright subcommittee Monday, renewed of the Senate Foreign Relations by Rich Smith pressed the fear that if the said, if Israel is iittacked by the 
Professor Donald Kommers of
assurances U.S. withdrawals Committee said the use of South amendment was passed, Nixon Arabs, "the United States, in my
the Government Department
from Cambodia would be com­Vietnamese troops in Laos "vio­would mount a campaign in the opinion, would have the right, 
pleted at the end of June. said yesterday that he supported coming elections against those the moral duty, to ship arms,
lates the spirit" of a congres­
the Cooper-Church amendment
He also contended there was sional ban on use of U.S. ground senators who voted for it. material and even men to her 
which would prohibit future
"no question" a majority of "The President could play aid."
forces in Laos and Thailand. 
Americans support Nixon's ac­"We are going in there by Cambodian invasions currently demagogue. It wouldn't take Referring to the Cambodian before Congress as an appro­
tion. much to organize the workers invasion, Kommers called it a
proxy," he said. "The purpose 
priate means of "bringing the
The debate in the Senate over of the amendment was to avoid behind him and keep the pro­"collossal diplomatic error," and 
President to heel without cur­
Cambodia concerns an amend­testors at bay. But if he sees said that it was made against a
further involvement in Laos or tailing his power."
ment to the bill authorizing arms Thailand, but now our clients himself as an instrument of na­"backdrop of a national consen­
Speaking in the LaFortune
sale abroad. Proposed by Sens. tional unity he could forego this sus against any further widening
are JOin& in there." He said it 
Student Center, Kommen ex-
John Sherman Cooper, (R-Ky .) momentary victory. He can use (Continued on page 2) and Fmnk Church, (D-Idaho), it his position to heal or to pour would deny funds for salt into thewounds," Kommers Communiversity"retaining" U.S. forces in Cam­said. bodia beyond June 30. In reference to the Harfield­· events today
The measure has considerable McGovern bill, which calls for Senate support. complete withdrawal from t:OO pm Higher Education in 
This was achnowledged by Indochina by June of next year Times of Crises Senate Republican Leader Hugh and cuts off appropriations for Part I Scott, (Pa.), who told reporters the war as of this December, Tom Musial he had been in touch with the Kommers said that he believed La Fortune White House every three or four that it was "too broad in scope." Student Center,
••-, ­
hours in his attempts to iron out Kommers said that he would 2nd floor a compromise. ordinarily he against any curtail­2:00 pm Catholic Church in ment of Presidential powers in Revolutionary Cuba
Although the administration the area of foreign and military Tim MacCarrywould prefer to see no legisla­affairs, and that there was a La Fortune Studenttion -arguing any action would "serious question about giving Center, Room 2Dtamper with the President's Congress more powers," since 1:00 to The War, the Strike powers as commander-in-chief ­that body had in the past proved and its Effects onScott said he advised the White to be "awkward and clumsy." 3:00 pm Modern AmericaHouse that the Senate wants to Also, Kommers pointed out, Julian Pleasantsbe heard on Cambodia. 
most of the expertise in those Willil!m McGlinn
Advisers enter Laos 
fields is lodged with the Presi­Jim Douglass 
Laird testified shortly after dent and his advisors. Richard Lamana t11e Florida White House said In citing the traditional con­Bernard Norling there are no American ground servatism of Congress in the Cecil Mast forces in Laos and "no change in areas of military and foreign Moderator: Rev. Shilts our activities in Laos." affairs, Kommers said "Congress Library Auditorium 
is likely to be wrong. It had been the great villain in the past, as 4:00 pm History of Vietnam
Committee for New Congress plans 
when it refused to go along with Anthony Black Wilson and join the League of Coffeehouse, SMC Nations." 4:00 pm Pacifism
to involve students in elections 
Kommers suggested the exis­Prof. Yoder The Notre Dame Committee clearing house at Princeton Uni­tence of "two majorities," with Non-violence
This project is in preparation for 
for a New Congress met in an versity. Congress mostly representing the 4:30 pm Rally for Jackson
the role Notre Dame will play in 
organizational meeting Monday South and rural areas while the State victims
Chairman John Roos, of the the Indiana state organization.
afternoon in the Academic Com­Government Department has President "as th~ only represen­La Fortune mission offices. The Committee scheduled a general training ses­Vice-chairman Pat Dowdall tative with a true national con­Speakers to be • is part of a national organization sion for potential workers Thurs­and office manager Pat McDon­stituency. The President has announced attempting to involve students in day night at 7:00 in Room I 04 ough announced that the Com­usually been the more pro­7:00 pm The University, key Congressional and Senatorial O'Shaughnessy. The purpose of mittee's permanent office would gressive, liberal and en­Poverty and Black races during the summer and the session is to "Give the stu­be in the Academic Commission lightened." Joan Rytina fall. dents a feel for the problems offices, fourth floor LaFortune. Pointing out that the modern Law Auditorium 
The group has already re­they will encounter in helping to The office will be staffed daily era was one in which decisions 8:00 pm Anti-War Poetry ceived commitments from over organize a political campaign." from I 0 to 4. The Committee's were often made "instantly", Reading 175 students to work for peace Roos al3o assigned a research goal is to get commitments from Kommers said that he would Harold Isbell candidates during the summer. team to study the voting pat­2000 Notre Dame students for oppose any curtailment of Pres­La Fortune Student These students will be placed in terns in Indiana's eleven Con­political work in the summer or idential powers. He specifically Center, 2nd floor campaigns through a national gressional Districts since 1958. fall for peace candidates. cited the Middly East, where, he 
Pat DowdaU 
PAGE 2 
711£ OBSERVER 
TUESDAY, MAY 19, 1970 
Hold referendum on McGovern-Hatfield bi II 
Tomorrow, a campus-wide re­organizer of the referendum. ferendum will be held concern­This referendum is part of a ing the McGovern-Hatfield nationwide student referendum Amendment to the Military Pro­which was initiated at Harvard curement Authorization Bill, University and of which Notre announced Steve Azzarelli, an Dame is State Coordinator for 
N.D. BOOKSTORE 
Record SaJe 
Starts May II 



WANTED 
One Student Union Secretary 
For Next Year 
Must be an experienced typist-Work in 
the afternoons -Good pay -If interested 
caJJ 7757 (N oon-5:00 PM) 
Indiana. The amendment is de­
signed to "starve the war" in 
Southeast Asia by providing that 
"unless Congress shall have de­clared war" no further funds will be used for military purposes in Laos, Cambodia or Vietnam after December 31, 1970 except to finance troop withdrawal and operations related to with­drawal. 
"As an attempt to bring direct political pressure to bear on those who are in a position to control American actions in Southeast Asia, it is essential that a large block of student support be demonstrated for the amendment," Azzarelli stated. 
There is an excellent chance that the referendum will pass the Senate is enough general support for it can be demonstrated. As a large and easily polled block of the present -and future consti­

'69 Triumph 
For Sale -'69 Triumph 
Trophy-250 cc-Call Brian 
2335710 
$475. FIRM 

·Theonlybeerthat alwaystastes light 
tucnts of the I00 Senators, stu­dents <;an have a decisive influ­ence on the way in which they will vote on this amendment." 
According to a newsletter from Senator McGovern's office, he and Senator Hatfield reject the notion that the war in Indo­china is "President Johnson's war" or President Nixon's war" and assert that it is Congress' war "so long as it fails to assume its responsibility." They con­tinue, "We believe that today a clear majority of the Senate is convinced at least that U.S. in­volvement in the war has been a military, political and moral mis­take." 
They· reject the idea that an error can be re<;:tified by per­petuating and expanding it, and state, "we believe it is time to abandon the policy of saving face and to launch a policy of saving lives." 
Describing the state of many in America today, on college campuses and elsewhere they say, "It must contribute greatly to the frustration and outrage among those who have :no direct power over policy wherj. they see that we who do have power -


under the Constitution are re­
fusing to use it." 
The 'activities preceding Wed­nesday's vote began yesterday in LaFortune Student Center with a Communiversity event, a de­bate between several professors concerning the amendment. 
Today the Student Union Academic Commission has ar­ranged for professors to be in the halls for discussion groups, with the hope that the referen­dum will be a widely discussed topic. The referendum itself will be held tomorrow in the indi-­vidual halls during the lunch and dinner hours with the results from Notre Dame and other lnqiana campuses being for-­warded to Harvard for inclusion in the national tally. 
Calls invasion collossal error 
(Continued from page 1) 
would be the first time since 181 2 that a Presidential move in a foreign country will be cur­tailed. It would be a tremendous symbolic and psychological de­feat for the President and he will use every tool he has to stop it." 
Saying that in his "candid opinion" the measures would not pass, Kommers said that there were "some people in the Senate who disagree with the President. but who will fail to go along with the resolution be-­cause they don't want to chain the President." 
Kommers also said that Nixon would use his cabinet members as liasions to brin_g congressmen with strong ties to the various government departments into line. of the war." 
Kommers said that even if one of the amendments to restrict future military action in Indo­china were passed, Nixon could circumvent it. "Its significance is in its symbolic importance. It 


Sale 
Good component stereo with extras -$70 -Call 1845 

SHIP IT HOM AIR FREIGHT 
May 26th through June 3rd 
You Can Ship Collect 
Dttail(d J<,<Hll flyt·J~ ''ill lH:' pa~~~d out ]at u. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subsciptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 

l 
~

THE OBSERVER . 
TUESDAY, MAY 19, 1970 
PAGE 3 I I 
I I 
,_Fifteen at SMC 
Kappa Gamma Pi nominees chosen 
Fifteen members of the Class major from San Mateo, Cali­major from Governor's Island, from San Diego, California. the Class of '70, she is a member of '70 of St. Mary's College have fornia. New York. Joann M. Yandow, a sociolo-of the Cl LA and is active in the been named to Kappa Gamma Kathleen A. Kelly, an English Sister Veroni4ue Weidower, gy major from Burlington, Ver­Neighborhood Study Help Pro­Pi, the national honor society of and humanistic studies major C.S.C., a music education major mont. Named Valedictorian for gram. Catholic colleges for women, it from Akron, Ohio. 
was announced by Sister M. Barbara R. Kolvas, a history 




Elect Phi Beta Kappa members
Jeanne finske, academic dean. major from South Bend, In­Kappa Gamma Pi nominees arc diana. 
Forty-one University of Notre Also, Richard T. Faber, eco-Richard Roddewig, government. 
chosen from among graduating Dame seniors have been elected nomics; Arthur C. Fougner, pre-Also, Karl J. Schroeder, pre­seniors on the basis of their Mary Patricia Lyons, an to membership in the Univer-professional studies; David professional studies; Paul F.
academic distinction and their English major from Oneida, New sity's Epsilon of Indiana chapter Fromme, physics; John Hugh Schubert, chemistry; VincentYork.
outstanding service and leader­of Phi Beta Kappa. Garvey, government; Gary Alan Sherry, English; John Cl Shor­ship to the college community. Marilyn J. Reed, an art and The new members will be Gereffi, sociology; Michael Gra-tell, history; Richard T. Simp­Named to Kappa Gamma Pi English major from Hobart, In­initiated at Morris Inn cere-ham, sociology; Robert C. Jack-son, government; Harold P.
diana.
are: monies May 23, along with two son, chemistry; John Roland Stern, preprofessional studies;
Rosemary C. Anderson, a his­Marilyn A. Reidy, a mathe­faculty members who have been Keys, sociology; Leo Alois Len-Thomas J. Talcott, economics;tory and humanistic studies matics major from Sandusky, elected alumni members of the sing, modern languages, and Stephen J. Tapscott, English;major from Cleveland, Ohio. Ohio. 
chapter -Dr. Jeremiah P. Free-William G. Locke, English. Thomas J. Ward, modern Ian-Kathleen M. Carbine, a hu­Karen A. Weller, a philosophy man, professor of chemistry, and Also, David L. Menzel, his-guages; Tim James Weber, pre­manistic studies major from the Rev. James T. Burtchaell, tory; David A. Mikelonis, professional studies, and StevenShorewood, Wisconsin. 
Correct ion 
C.S.C., associate professor of government; Richard F. Moran, J. Wieland, physics. 
Frances M. Carroll, a mathe­In the statement that was theology. English; John H. Mordaunt, ....-------==--------...
matics major from Pittsburgh, 
reprinted yesterday in The The seniors are Sergio C. government; Stephen Mysliwiec, 
Found
Pennsylvania. 
Observer,there was an error. The Baeza, economics; Phillip Bar-sociology; Daniel John Oberst, 
-Two medals on a chain
Katherine A. Dent, a music second and third lines of the kett, Jr., physics; Lawrence Bris-modern languages; James J. 
-"ROMA" on back of one
major from Kansas City, Kansas. 
fourth paragraph should have son, mathematics; Gerald T. O'Connell, sociology; Michael V. 
Call Bill -212 Dillon
Eileen F. Donoghue, a mathe­read as follows: Burns, general program; Robert Oriard, English; Patrick C. Poon,matics major from Michigan 
Phone 1650 
"replacement of an imperfect Paul Cabaj, preprofessional stu-preprofessional studies, andCity, Indiana. 
democratic government dedi­
dies; Robert H. Colson, modern ,--------------L--------------1
Marilyn J. Fisher, a psycholo­cated to the common good, with languages; Michael P. Comiskey, C1eveland Clubgy major from Woodbridge, Vir­a dearly undemocratic govern-. 
mathematics; Michael A. Cos­
ginia. 
ment dedicated to its own ideol­tello, sociology; Donald Cvitko­Meeting in La Fortune -7:00PMSister Frances Teresa Guld­ogy, a tyranny whose first act 
vich, preprofessional studies;
horg, C.S.C'., a mathematics Wednesday, May 20
would be the ... " 
John P. Dowdall, government. 
Elections and Baggage Truck 
Scott hints at growing desire for 


compromise pos1t1on on war 
$1.00 a pitcher 
Mooey·Saving 
wednesday night
WASIIINGTON (lJPI) Sen. weekend. Scott said he has been nounced he would join in spon­



PIZZA.HUT

9 -11:30

llugh Scott (R-Pa.) said yester­in touch with the While House sorship of a stiff resolution to 
day there is a growing desire for frequenlly. cut off funds for U.S. military 

Frida 2-7 
"BUCKS" 

some kind of position on the He said he had advised the involvement in Indochina start­Indochina War which could com­White House that the Senate ing Dec. 31, 1970 and to require 

CLIP THE "BD'' s100 0FF 01 WIE
BROW AND -PIZZA

mand overwhelming support in wan ted to be heard on Cam­pullout of all American forces the Senate. bodia. lie added that he per­by June 30, 1971. 
SQnally wan ted to_ "make clear 
Mansfield said he had no idea 

der, told reporters he was search­the Senate's will without des­when a vote would come on that -­
ing for language to broaden a troying the President's options measure or the more limited pending amendment calling for a as commander-in-chief." proposal now before the Senate cut off of funds for retaining "More people are now favor­to cut off funds for the Cam­,U.S. forces in Cambodia after ing some readjustment of the bodian operation sponsored by 
June 30, the time set by Presi­wording," he added. Sens. 1ohn Sherman Cooper, ,dent Nixon for withdrawing Gls Earlier, Senate Democratic R-Ky., and Frank Church, 
sent in to wipe out Communist Leader Mike Mansfield an-D-ldaho. 
sanctuaries. 
Scott, Senate Republican lea­
Scott said there was a "grow­Allen commencement speaker
ing desire" to reshape the so called Cooper-Church amend­Dr. James E. Allen, Jr., U.S. ment so it might win 7 5 to HO Commissioner of Education will votes rather than the "close divi­be the University of Notre ~ion" anticipated if it reaches a Dame's commencement speaker vote with existing language. 
June 7, it was announced byScott declined to give any the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh,
de tails of language changes 
C.S.C. which he indicated were the !-''ather Hcshurgh also said that 
subject of discussions during the 
Night Editor: Jim Graif Layout Design: Mary Chris 
Morrison Layout: Ann Conway Night Controller: Harold 
Taegel John Cardinal Willehrands, head of the Vatican Secretariat for Promoting Christian Unity, will be the celebrant of the tradi­tional baccalaureate Mass scheduled for 9:00 a.m. in the Athletic Convocation Center are­na. Preaching the homily at this Mass will he Archbishop Denis 
E. Hurley of Durban, South Africa, a staunch foe of his nation's policy of racial separa­tion. 
Allen, who received his doc­torate in education from Har­vard University in 1945, has 
Hair Styling 
j(Jr NIJ men the Continental Way 
Razor Cutting &. Style Europcau Layer ShaNn11 for Lonl Hmt 
/lave Long flair & M. .
w (' d 1,et zss 1 rel'a & The Baron 11e e11 ,roome Serve & Pamper You 
Continental Hair Styling 
306 Sherland Bldg. South Bend, Ind. Studellt Rates 234-0811 By Appt. 
spent almost four decades as either an educational administra­
. tor or university teacher. Prior to his appointment by President Nixon to head the nation's Office of Education, he was for 13 years commissioner of educa­tion for New York State. 
Allen; Cardinal Willebrands and Archbishop Hurley will each receive an honorary doctor of laws degree at graduation cere­monies set for 2:00 p.m. in the Athletic-Convocation Center are­na. Other recipients of honorary degrees will be announced later, Father Hesburgh said. 



ATTENTION ALL SOPHOMORES 
Sophomores may start placing ring orders NOW 
Hours: 1:30-4:30 Monday Thru Friday 
m offi(·e on se(·ond floor of ND Bookstore 


PAGE 4 711E OBSEIWER. TUESDAY, MAY 19, 1970 
Irish assure w1nn1ng season record 
by Jim Donaldson 
now has a 15-12 mark on the homerun with two out in the Tweedale drew a walk, moved to 
for the Irish. 

Observer Sportswriter 
season while Northwestern is first inning. second on a wild pitch by Cur­
The Irish are still hopeful,Rob Voitier made his last 6-24-2. Northwestern's lead was ran (on in relief of Phelps) and although not optimistic, of ob­appearance at Cartier Field Mon­While Voitier was performing short-lived however as the Irish scored on a single by Roger taining an NCAA tournament day afternoon against the North­his heroics at the plate ND coach pounced on Wildcat starter Gus Simpson. 

berth on the strength of their western Wildcats and his perfor­Jake Kline went with three sen­Prochazka for a pair of tallies in The Wildcats added another second half record. After a hor­mance was one Irish diamond ior hurlers on the mound for the their half of the first frame. run in the sixth stanza to take a rendous start in which they lost fans will long remember. Irish and the trio responded by Voitier led off for the Irish and 5-3 lead but the Irish tied the I 0 of their first l l games the The slim six-foot senior hit making their final home appear­gunned a double. A single by score with a pair of tallies in Irish have bounced back and for the cycle, rapping a single in ances a success. Southpaw Jim Nick Scarpelli and a walk to their half of the sixth. Bob won 14 while losing two, an the fourth inning, a double in Phelps started and pitched the Rich Lucke filled the bases with Jaeger doubled to left center and .875 percentage, since April 18. 

the first inning, a triple in the first four innings before giving one out. Chuck Horan then put scored the first Irish marker of The team has shown marked ­
wa)l to Dan Curran. Curran the Irish out front by slapping a the frame on Voitier's triple to
sixth stanza and capped his out­improvement since the outset of
lasted but an inning and a third single to plate V oitier and Scar­right center. A sacrifice fly by
standing effort by clubbing his the season and if they can close first homerun of the season in and had to be bailed out of a pelli. Scarpelli sent Voitier across the out their schedule today with a the eighth frame, as he led the jam by Bob Jaeger. Jaeger Notre Dame ad,ded another plate. 
win at Valparaiso the season Irish to a 6-5 victory. The win finished the game for the Irish run in the second inning as, after Voitier's solid roundtripper in must be considered a success. 

was Notre Dame's eleventh of and earned credit for the win two were out, Scarpelli walked, the eighth was the winning run the year at home without a loss his second of the year without~ stole second and sgored on Joe and marked the first time in 36 loss: Keenan's single. years that the Irish were able to The Wildcats put the first The Wildcats tied the score Soccer team is undefeated 
post an unblemished slate on marker on the scoreboard as with a pair of runs in the fourth their own diamond. Notre Dame George Greenfield clouted a solo inning off Phelps. Greenfield The Irish hooters had another The improving O'Brien also 
great weekend. This time the had two assists in the Irish rout.

beat out a bunt single to start the rally. Gary Berman laid soccer club shutout Valparaiso Three different goalies held 6-0. The game was played Sun­the Crusaders scoreless. Maury
down another bunt and both he 
day afternoon on the Stepan Brie who already notched one





Netters finish strong 
and Greenfield were safe when 
Center field. shutout this spring, held the
Keenan elected to try for a play 
The Notre· Dame tennis team Four different players scored Valpo players at bay in the first
Bob O'Mally, ND, def. Dave at second but threw wide of the 
completed an extremely success­Fleanor 1-6, 7-5, 6-0 bag. A third straight bunt, this goals in this contest in which the part of the game. After him ful season this past weekend LeSage-Reilly def. Peden-· one laid down by Bill Bauer, ND squad vastly outclassed the came Tom Makielski who also has a scoreless game to his credit 
with two more victories. On Maiseri bacher 7-5, 14-1 2 filled the bases for the Wildcats. Crusader kickers. Those who Friday the Irish defeated Bowl­Bob Artemanko plated Green­scored for the Irish were Kevin and Phil Michaels in his debut at
Brown-Theissen def. Nowfe1­
ing Green eight to one. Saturday Reed 6-3, 8-6 field and Berman with a single O'Brien who booted two past the watchman spot. · the team dosed the season by Greg Murray-Schefter def. but Phelps worked out of trou­the Valpo goalie and Tom Shri­The Irish are having a tremen­downing Ball State by an eight ble before any more runs scored. ver who also ha·d two tallies, Dan dous spring season. So far they
Huntley-Fleanor 6-2 6-2 ' to one margin. Thus the Irish Notre Dame 8 B~wling Green Northwestern grabbed the Burke and Chris Hanlon added are undefeated, untied and un­one apiece. scored upon in three games. 
finished the year with a record lead in the fifth inning as Cliff of fifteen wins and only six 
Dennis Cavan, B.G., def. losses. It has been a very good 
Brown 10-8, 3-6, 64 year, especially when it is noted 
LeSage def. Mark Goldner that there was only one senior 6-0,6-3 

USMA sprints past Irish 
on this year's starting team, co­Reilly def. Tom Lightvoetcaptain Bob O'Mally, who closed 2-6, 6-3, 7-5 by Steve O'Connor pulled off in the field. These High Hurdles. Mike McCann and out his career with a come from Theissen def. Bill Oudsema sweeps came in the Hammer Joe Quaderer tied for first in the 
Observer Sportswriter 
behind victory on Saturday. 
7-5' 6-3 Throw, Javelin, High Jump, and mile with · a time of 4:13.1.
Notre Dame 8 Ball State 1 The Irish track team closed
Schefter def. Sam Salisbury Pole Vault. Their runners took Kevin Robinson grabbed third to
Buster Brown, ND, defeated out their short dual meet season
6-0,6-0 the 100, 220, 440, 880, Mile complete the sweep. In the High
Sam Peden 6-2,6-1 last Saturday in New York by
Murray def. Don Ryan 6-1, Relay and 440 Relay. Hurdles Joe Utz's 15.0 clocking
Bernie LeSage, ND, def. Brian losing 90-64. Army swept four
6-2 The Irish were again led by took first and Irish teammates
Nowfel 6-8, 6-3, 64 events and Notre Dame swept
LeSage-Reilly def. Cavanaugh Paul Gill who set a field record Tom McMannon, and Dave
Mike Reilly, ND, def. Dick two on a cold afternoon that
-Lightvoet 2~6, 6-3, 7-5 for the third week in a row in Stickler took second and third.
Maisenbacher 6-3, 6-1 kept performances subpar. 
Tony Earley-Jim Faught def. the Discus. Gill's toss this week Dave Stickler added a winning
Bill Reed, B.S., def. Gil Theis­Army won ten events and 
Oudsema-Salisbury 5-7, 64, 64 was 182'9" which also qualified performance in the Intermediate 
sen 6-3, 7-5 most of these were the shorter
Murray-O'Mal1y def. as a Notre Dame-Army meet Hurdles to finish a fine after­
Rob Schefter, ND, def. Steve distances to middle deistances 
Goldner-Ryan 6-1, 64 record. Elio Polselli was second noon and Joe Quaderer took his
Huntley 6-3, 6-3 on the track and the sweeps they in the Discus for ND and first in second win later, in the Two his specialty the Shot, which he Mile with a time of 9: 11.2. won with a 52'6" effort. Also in This meet left the Irish with a
Sailors go on to nationals 
the field Mike McMannon won 1-2 dual meet record for the the Long Jump at 23'2" and season. Occurring now is a long weeks ago he won the single­ments. After the first day there Kevin McAuliffe placed first in layoff from competition before
The Notre Dame Sailing Club handed sailing championship, was a number of capsizings so the Triple Jump with a 46'11" the Central Collegiate Confer­
has just completed a most suc­cessful weekend. The sailors 
also at Madison. Doyle was the the matches were halted. Rich leap. ence meet in three weeks on 
managed to work their way to best sailor in the Midwest and he had managed to come out on The two Notre Dame sweeps June 5-6 and the NCAA meet the National regatta for the will go back to Madison to try to top despite the poor sailing con­were in the Mile and the 120 yd. June 18-20, in Des Moines. ditions. /'
second year in a row. The Irish attain national recognition. Be­did this on the strength of their sides Doyle, Tom Salack, team The outlook for the national captain, also competed in the regatta is good. Since ND placed 
performance in the Midwest 
Ruggers beat cham.ps
single-handed event and he seventh in this same meet last
Regional Championships at 
Bloomington, Indiana. placed 7th in the 27 team field. season and have a number of Senior captain Mike Paterni tory.
In these races with only one experienced hands returning
Notre Dame placed second· 
scored his last six points for the Outstanding for the ruggers
person sailing there was consi­they will be a definite threat for 
out of the top nine teams in the 
Notre Dame Rugby Club on were Jim Hagenbarth, Pete Hart­
derable trouble with the ele-the title.
Midwest to earn a trip to Madi­
Saturday, and it was all the Irish ney and Tom Herlihy all of 
son, Wisconsin on June 17 for 
needed in order to upset Chicago whom are juniors and will be 
the National championships. The 
Lyons 6-3 this weekend in Chi­back next fall. Besides Paterni,

MAJOR LEAGUES
University of Michigan Wolver­
cago. Patemi's points came on Bob Monaghan, Gary Gleason 
ines won the Midwest finals but NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE 
two penalty kicks, one in each and Jim Butler played their last 
they just managed to edge the East East 
half, to give the ruggers a. thrill­rugby game for Notre Dame. 
experienced Irish. Ohio Wes­w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB 
ing victory over Chicago Lyons, The rugby club closed their 
leyan placed third in the event. Chicago 18 15 .545 Baltimore 24 10 .706 
the "Midwest Champions" as a season with Ia fine 9-3-1 rec­
New York 18 17 .514 1 New York 20 16 .556 5
Individual standouts in the 
result of their victory two weeks ord. The ruggers have beaten the
St. Louis 16 17 .485 2 Detroit 15 16 .484 7Yz
regatta for ND were Rich Doyle 
Pittsburgh 17 20 .459 3 Boston 15 17 .469 8Yz ago in the Midwest Rugby Tour­best teams in the Midwest and
who skippered the "A" boat and 
Montreal 13 21 .382 5Yz Washington 14 20 .412 10 nament. finished second only to Brown
his crew of Gerry Mohm. Dolye 
Philadelphia 13 22 .371 6 Cleveland 11 19 .367 11 The "Midwest Champions" ir the Commonwealth. Without 
was the low point man in the 
were held scoreless in the first question, the Irish ruggers are 
regatta after the first day (in 
half and scored on a try in the one of the best, if not the best
sailing the low score is best) but West West 
second half. During the last college rugby team east of the
he ran into trouble on the Cincinnati 27 11 .711 *Minnesota 10 .688
22 three minutes of the game Chi­Mississippi River. And with
second day of action and was *Los Angeles 20 15 .571 5Yz *California 23 12 .657 Yz 
cago Lyons was threatening deep eleven starters returning as well
disqualified in one race. It was Atlanta 19 16 .543 6Yz Oakland 18 18 .500 6 
in Irish territory, but the Notre as a strong "B" team, the Notre
here that "B" skipper Mike Mor­Houston 19 19 .500 8 *Chicago 15 19 .441 8 
Dame ruggers held on bravely, Dame Rugby Club is looking
San Fran. 18 20 .474 9 *Kansas City 13 21 .382 10
rissey showed his true value by 
*San Diego 17 22 .436 10Yz Milwaukee 11 23 .324 12 finally kicked the ball back to forward to another outstanding
coming through with a tremen­
midfield, and secured the vic-season in September. 
Montreal8 New York 4 Washington 7 Cleveland 3 
Pittsburgh 2 Philadelphia 1 New York 10 Baltimore 4 ND. Morrissey had two men Chicago 12 Cincinnati 5 Minnesota 5 Kansas City 5, 8th inn. alternate as his crew, Will Done­Houston 6 St. Louis 0 California 3 Chicago 0, 5th inn. lan and Kevin Hoyt. Los Angeles 1 San Diego 0, 1st inn. Detroit at Boston, ppd. rain Rich Doyle will not be tra­Only games scheduled Only games scheduled veling to the Wisconsin campus *Night game not included for only one championship. Two 



