
Will hold senate e-lections Oct. 14 
by John Abowd 
The 1970 Student Senate elections will be held on Wednesday October 14, according to SBVP Mark Winings chairman of the elections committee. SBP, Dave Krashna, said that the vote is being held because a referendum to establish a new constitution replacing the Student Senate with a President's Council is "out of order at this time." 
"The constitution we've drawn up will be presented to a new senate which JS going to be elected next Wednesday," said Krashna. 
Commenting on his original plan to hold a referendum without convening the senate he said: "I thought it was rather ridiculous to have a Senate consider a constitution to abolish itself. If the referendum had failed then I would resort to a senate." 
The new constitution calls the President's council an ''executive organ of the students of the University.''' The council would be composed of the SBP, as chairman, the Hall Presidents 
and  off-cam pus  representative,  
the  undergraduate  members of  
the  Student  Life  Council, and  
the  Student  Government  



Hesburgh outlines problems 
In a spl'ech delivered to the Notre Dame faculty yesterday afternoon University President Rev. Theodore Hesburgh out­lined what he considers the major problems confronting American Universities today. Hesburgh called the task of meeting the challenge of modern education crucial to the survival of the University system. "I can't think of a time when the task looked more difficult than now, Hesburgh said. 
One of the basic problems, according to Hesburgh has been the "steady dryup of public and private, moral and financial support." He contended that this ioss has seriously hurt many universities. 
"The largest single factor in the growth of higher education is the public support for it,' he claimed. 
Hesburgh speculated that the Jack of public suooort was partly due to the outside com-. munity's expectations for it. 
"In a real sense, the university has been oversold," he said. 
Hesburgh noted that there has been tremendous expansion in the nation's university system in recent years but called the. growth "uneven," since most of the emphasis has centered on the sciences. Hesburgh claimed this imbalance caused the humanities to lose a part of their direction as they strived to imitate the scientific method in a quest for the money and material poured into science. 
Hesburgh saw some of the university's problems' with the local community as stemmjng 
from a reaciion to what the community views as a threat to the status quo, brought on by the university's constant concern with seeking solutions to con­temporary social problems. 
"The University at times, is judged to be subversive," he said. 
Citing the example of the University of Wisconsin, where 
student  leaders  pressured  the  
president  into  resigning,  and  
caused  a  breakdown  in  the  

governing of the university, Hesburgh declared the collapse of administrative authority as a more serious threat to the entire system. 
"The greater danger is what is happening within the university itself" he said. "Some call it the collapse of academic freedom ·and call for punitive measures. Feeling is running high" he 
added. 
Hesburgh claimed that every sector of the university com­munity had its own demands on the institution. He described the various wants of Trustees, Alumni, Faculty, Benefactors, parents and students demonstra­ting how they can often conflict. 
"In general, I would say the 


University President Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, pictured here at an earlier address. 
Trustee system has worked well" he said, stipulating that it was necessary for faculty to have a say in academic structures and students to be largely responsi­ble for handling student life regulations. He felt that changes in the governing structure of the university w;i3 by no means the total solution to ·the university's 
·problems. 
Hesburgh indicated that he had recently received two letters from President Nixon in connec­tion with student 'and faculty unrest. Hesburgh said his advice to the president had been that Nixon should be aware of the issues that lie at the roots of student discontent. Though he conceded that campus unrest was a major nation'al crisis he said he believed the two most 
important  issues concerned  the  
"equality  of  life"  and  the  
"priorities  represented  by  the  

national budget." 
Hesburgh countered the many problems facing the universities by listing the many values that remained conl\tant in the system. Most importantly, he speculated, "niaybe the university is the only place in the world where we can bridge the generation gap." 
tie praised modern students for their talents, chief of which was what he called their ability to think in terms of absolutes. But he included a belief in the shortcomings as well principally a lack of a sense of history. 
He offer,~d a solution to this lack in an increase in the quality of education. "Good teaching, no, great teaching may be the salvation of the university today." He was skeptical about teachers who engage in research to the extent that their teaching duties are neglected. 
Hesburgh said he believes the nation and the world are facing a very crucial mom~nt in their history. "I suspect we are, in the Western world, passing an histor­ical watershed," he said, adding that· this country especially is facing "a fork in the road." 
While he recognized the im­portance of political activity for the modern student and teacher, Hesburgh affirmed his belief in the necessity ·ror disassociation of the university from any political affiliations. "It can and must remain politically neutral," he said. 
Hesburgh noted that though action is important in time of crises, in his view the primary purpose of college is thought. He called learning the most "thrilling" task of the faculty and the most "exciting" exper­ience of the student. Of the ultimate nal.ure of the university as a whole, Hesburgh concluded, "It is still the House of Reason." 
Cabinet in a non-voting capacity. 
The SLC members would vote 
only on budgetary matters. 
The constitution also creates a General Assembly of the entire student body. This body would be called by the SBP at least once during his term. "This general assembly will be structured in such a way as to allow for the airing of student opinion," according to the text. 
SBVP Mark Winnings said that an assembly would "probably be called once a semester" He added, "We envision different structures for different assemblies so that we can hear from every segment of the University." 
When questioned about his campaign acltivities Krashna said, "We will state our position on 
the new constitution in the different halls probably this weekend. 1 would imagine that each potential ·senator will have in the back of his mind that he may be voting on the abolition of the Senat'~ and some senators may· run on that position. Simply, we will be saying that we plan to abolish the Senate." Krashna and Winnings said they do not "at this time" plan to endorse any specific candidates. 
Krashna added "The Senate has never been representative in any way. shape or form, I really wonder if we're representative of the student body here. I wonder if Phil McKenna was; I wonder if Rich Rossie was. I would think that we would be more 'liberal' or 'radical' than the student body. To make student government work, hall governments have to work." 

SBP David Krashna 

Regarding the election itself, Stay Senator Russ Stone said the election would follow traditional procedure. Potential candidates will report to the Senate room in LaFortune Center at 7 p.m. on Wednesday October 7. Completed nomination petitions 
(continued on page 8) 

PARTIAL TEXT OF DAVE KRASHNA 'S STATEMENT ON THE 
PROPOS/<,"'[) CONSTITUTION. 

"We're moving to abolish the present form of student government that is, the student senate because we believe that the senate as it is structured now is useless considering the reality of the pres:ent situation. All student life !legislation is in the hands of the SLC. So, I believe our emphasis should be directed there. The student government per se, should consist of a body which can, hopefully, congeal student opm1ons from the various hall members by the most appropriate and natural people within the halls to do so the hall presidents. 
"To have the student senate would make us virtually ineffective. We do not need a Student Senate. What we need again, is a body made up of the people closest to the hall members. We believe that to be the Hall presidents. To say that the senate or any student government body at the present time can legislate on student life would be quite erronious and impractical and not an accurate picture of the present situation." 
HPC finalizes float plans 
At last night's meeting, the Hall Preside:nt's Council laid the groundwork for a successful homecoming weekend, student support will determine the out~ come. 
The H.P.C. is guaranteed $350 from the Student Union for homecoming week activities. It was originally decided that each hall would erect its own display or float, that they would all be judged, and those halls taking first. second, and third place would be a warded $200, $100, and $50 respectively. 
While in session last week, Buz Imhoff proposed a change in homecoming. His plan called 
for  each  hall  to  donate  their  
expected  expenditures  to  
charity,  and  that  the  prize  

money be used to build a float 
for each quad. 
The council accepted this plan half-way, deciding to use some of the money to build a display on the South Quadrangle, and to distribute the remainder among a number of charities. The eighteen halls aligned with the North and South Quads agreed to support the construction of this display, while the Grace and Flanner presidents chose to combine their efforts in the building of a separate project. 
The burden of designing and organizing a display was assumed by fifth year architecture stu­dent, Frank Liebner. After pre­liminary matters were com­pleted, chairman John Barkett gave' the floor to Liebner who then explained what progress had been made and what com­plications could be expected to rise. 
He then presented the plans for the display which he had devised. He described the project as "a cadet, 20 feet high, in green field, on maneuvers, con­fronted by Ara 's secret weapon." 
The materials have already been ordered·and the expenses are not expected to exceed $120. Four items are still in demand: a power drill, a saber saw, heavy-duty extension chords, and "manpower." 
Bq,-'inning Tuesday morning at 

9:00 Liebner wJII begin con­structio'l; the site of 
(continued on page 3) 

Page 2 Tuesday, October 6, 1970 
THE OBSERVER.

_.....:.._.::._____________;___________________ 


Janis Joplin found dead of overdose 
HOLLYWOOD (UPI)-Singer Janis Joplin, whose husky, near shouting vocal style propelled her to the top of the pop charts was found dead at her apartment late Sunday'. 
Her body was found wedged between a bed and nightstand by one of the members of her group, "Janis Joplin Full Tilt Boogie Banp,'' She was clad in a short nightgown. 
Ed Sanchez of the Hollywood Police Department said the singer had "numerous hypo­dermic needle marks on her left forearm." Some appeared to be covered over by makeup but were from two to 14 days old, he said. No drugs nor narcotic paraphernalia was found in the room. 
The coroner's office said yes­terday an overdose of drugs was the cause of death and that further tests were underway to determine the specific agent. 
Miss Joplin, considered by many to be the top female rock singer in the nation, was the object of concern by some writers in the field that she would burn herself out by her all out delivery. 
"People like to say I'm · ruining it," she said last year. "Maybe it's getting rougher but I still could reach all the notes I ever could. I don't know how long it will last. As long as I do, 
probably." 

Miss Joplin had an electrifying appearance on sltage, with her long· hair shaking, her unin­hibited movements and her husky, shouting vocalizing. "She tore the guts out of songs," a critic once said of her singing. 
When her physician told her she should slow down her frenetic pace, Miss Joplin re­plied: "Man, I'd rather have 10 years of superhypermost than live to be 70 sitting in some goddamn chair watching TV. Right now is where you are. How can you wait'?" 
Miss Joplin burst on the national rock scene in 1967 when she sang her .blues version of Gershwin's "Summertime" and "Ball and Chain" at the Monterey, Calif., pop festival. 
Her rough, throaty singing and the remarkable intensity of her voice, which would soar into screams and shouts, were dis­played in concerts around the country and in record albums. Lately, she said, she could get high just on the music. 
Her fondness for drinking Southern Comfort was well known -she would down it by the quart on stage -and her fans would bring scores of 
ATTENTION: 


REPORTERS 
& ALL 

INTERESTED IN REPORTI,NG 

THERE WILL BE A WRITING WORKSHOP ON TUESDAY\ OCT;·6TH FROM 7:30 TO 9:30 IN ROOM 2D I.A FORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
All present reporters must attend this workshop or one that will be held later in the week. 

······¥······························ 
bottles of the liquor to h•~r home in Port Arthur, Tex. at 17, concerts. then dropped out of the Univer­
Reflecting on her career re­sity of Texas in Austin where cently, Miss Joplin said 'Tm she began singing. She arrived in exciting, but I'm not too subtfe San Francisco in 1966 during yet. Those people who say I'm the flowering of the Haight like Billie Holliday...man, I'm Ashbury district. nowhere near her--hear her once Heavily influenced by negro and you know that. But my singers Otis Redding and Bessie voice is getting better." Smith, nearly all her songs were 
Miss Joplin ran away from her of ru~al blues origin. 
She had been in Los Angeles area since Aug. 24 recording a new album. Her body was dis­covered by guitarist John Cooke who said she failed to show up for a date. 
It was the second death in the pop singing world in two weeks. Singer guitarist Jimi Hendrix died of an overdose of drugs in London Sept. 1"8. 

Federal Wiretaps increase 300% 
WASHINGTON (UPI)-Fed­eral wiretaps during the first half of this year were up more than 300 per cent over all of 1969 Attorney General John N. Mitchell1"eported yesterday. 

Mitchell defended the sharply increased use of electronic sur­veillance, calling it "a particular­ly effective weapon" in the government's law enforcemt::nt arsenal. 
"The only repression that has resulted is the repression of crime," he said. 

Mitchell, in a speech for the annual meeting of the International Association of Po­lice Chiefs in Atlantic City, N.J., said federal agents installed 30 court authorized wiretaps in 196 9 and l 03 more through July 13 of this year-most of them to get evidence for gamb­ling mnarcotics and extortion cases. 
In an effort to show that the wiretaps installed under author­ity granted by. the 1968 Crime· 

U.S. senators oppose election reforms 
WASHINGTON (UPI) The 
Senate yesterday gave up con­
sideration of a constitutional 
amendment for direct election 
of the president. Its chief 
sponsor conceded he lacked the 
votes to break a Southern lead 
filibuster. 
"We're just not going to be 
able to shut off this filibuster," 
said Sen. Birch Bayh, D Ind. He 
consulted with Senate Demo­
cratic Leader l\ijke Mansfie[d 
who then won the Senate's 
consent to call off Tuesday's 
third scheduled vote on whether 
to coke off debate through the 
parliamentary device of cloture. 
Senators from southern and 
small states opposed the amend­
ment which had passed the 
House 339 to 70, out of fear 
their states would wield· less 
influence in presidential dec­
tions if candidates chiefly sought 

•  LP RECORDS, PRE-RECORDED TAPES, AUDIO  
EQUIPMENT, ACCESSORIIES, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS  
~1~-~-~~~~  and SET YOUR OWN PROFIT PICTURE  
• MEET and BEAT ALL COMPETITION  
I ~:  IF THIS IS YOU,R BAG, CONTACT: .;.~~~~~;~f.~~!.~~~~f~~·;:.':33, MR. AQUILINA, c/o SMG DISTRIBUTORS, Inc.  ~~~m  I::::  
:-~  46-35  54th  Rood, Maspeth, N.'l' • 11378.  :!:!  




L~=#J!~:~:~=~~~:~-~=--&WJ 
Control Act were not ordered as "fishing expeditions" Mitchell they had produced evidence so far for 419 arrests and 3 25 indictments. 
"Arrests resulted in all but 12 of these wiretaps," he added. 
In addition, Mitchell said, police in states where wiretap­ping is permitted had installed 241 taps last year but that records for 1970 were not yet available. 
"I hardly think the 271 federal and state wire taps occurring last year in the United States constitute an abuse of the privilege,"· he told the police chiefs in a reference to claims by civil libertarians that the eaves­dropping is an invasion of privacy. 
But the Attorney Ger.eral said his department also was vigor­ously enforcing a section of the 1968 act prohibitting wiretap­ping by private parties."" 
"We believe that it is our duty to be jsut as. diligent in halting the illegal use of wiretaps as in using . authorized wiretaps to combat organized crime," he said. 
Dean Rusk to teach 
ATHENS (UPI)-Dean Rusk, the former Secretary of State arrived on the University of Georgia campus yesterday to assume his new new duties as a Professor of International law. 
"After about 20 years in and 

the support of populous states. The Senate has been consider­ing the amendment since Sept 7. Mansfield said the third vote on limiting debate would not be held before Nov. 16-if the Senate failing to finish its work before the election holds a post election session. Without such a session, no further action was scheduled on the amendment Bayh told reporters too many senators were absent-many of them campaigning for 
reelection-to win the the two thirds vote needed to cut off debate. 
Sen. Howard H. Baker, R Tenn., another backer, said he did not want a third vote on cloture. "It was not part of our strategy," Baker said. 
(continued on page 3) 

out of Washington, I'm glad to be out," the 61 year old Georgia native said. 
Rusk was hired for the faculty of the state supported university 
last  December  over  the  
objections  of  conservative  
forces,  including  Gov.  Lester  

Maddox who described him as " A LEFT WING INTERNATION­ALIST." 
Rusk and his wife moved into a small apartment in this city of 50,000 Saturday following a two day drive from Washington. He spent Monday quietly moving books and personal items into his office at the School of Law. 
Instead of conducting formal classes Rusk will deliver lectures and ·participate in panel discussions with students. The lectures, to be carried to student groups on closed circuit television, will start in about two weeks. 
"I didn't come to the University of Georgia to propagandize the foreign policy of the Kennedy and Johnson administrations_" Rusk told a reporter in his wood-panelled office, "but I won't shrink from any questions or discussions by students about the things that happened during those years " 
Students from Tennessee Invited to work for Gore 
Students interested in doing campaign work this fall will be invited to work for Senator Albert Gore's bid for reelection, in a meeting to be held Thursday night. In what is expected to be a close race, active student participation could be the decid­ing factor in determining tht; outcome. 
Fred Meyer, of Jackson, Ten­nesse, is coordinating the pro­gram to involve students in working for Gore. Until now, the idea has met with little success, mainly as a result of poor publicity. Meyer who 

-himself worked for Gore's cam­paign during the summer stres­sed the crucial political situation throughout most ·of Tennesse, and urge any interested Tennesse residents to overcome the feeling of apa-thy that could spell defeat in such a close contest. 
Meyer will hold a meeting Thursday night at 7:00 pm in 425 Walsh Hall. He invites all interested students to attend. Last Thursday's meeting attract­ed a few students and no definite course could be mapped out With the defeat of the Princeton Plan referendum Meyer feels it's now up to the personal initiative to make the student voice count in '70 elections. 

,-----------------------­
Tuesday, October 6,1970 THE OBS£Rfl£lt Page 3 
Student respon.e to the Ruddle's new hours has been fa•onble, 
says Mr. Edward. Price, Director of Food Services. 
Huddle hours work well 
by The Redman 

The extended hours in the Huddle have been quite successful so far, according to Edmund Price, Director of Food services 
He claimed that business has been good during the new times. However, he emphasized that the change in hours is not final, and that permanent change depends on continued student support. A final decison won't be made on Huddle hours until the beginning of the second semester. 
(Continued from Page 2) 
Bayh  tried  to win  Southern  
support  for  a  compromise  
amendment  but  he  had  to  

abandon that effort too, late in the day. 
"The general feeling is that at this late date there is not sufficient time to consider some­thing totally new," he said. 
Attempts to invoke cloture failed by five votes last week when 14 senators were absent. It failed by six votes the previous week. 
Baker and Bayh preferred that the amendment be side tracked to the Senate calendar from which it could be revived in a post election session. A third cloture defeat, they feared, might kill it forever. 
They proposed, instead, a compromise to the Southern bloc that abandoned the direct popular vote principle, but re­tained safeguards against a candi · date who received fewer votes than his opponent becoming President, which can happen under the current Electoral College system. 
Under the compromise, the Electoral College system would be retained, but without the office of elector. 
FINis plaMed 
(Continued from Page I) 
construction will be between the Knights of Columbus building and Alumni Hall. Success, he stressed, will depend almost entirely upon the number of hardworking hours put in by the students. 
People interested should work during any free period from 
9:00 until dark; those with construction background are urged to respond to this call. 
The new hours are a result of a student questionnaire strongly favoring later hours for the Huddle. In response to the ques­
tionnaire,  Mr.  Price  expanded  
hours  to  12:30  A.M.  for  all  
nights.  

One advantage to the change has been the increased student employment at the Huddle. A staff of seven students mans the Huddle from 10:30 P.M. until closing. 
Mr. Price also mentioned the possibility of obtaining some new equipment for the Huddle. Included would be a pizza oven, which would offer the student a greater selection of food than already offered. 
He expressed hope that the Huddle would be open all night during first semester final examns. He said there may be a staffing problem however, since most students wouldn't have the time to work before exams. 
Hartlre up Nix• will ~•• truce 
FORT' WAYNE (UPI)-Sen. Vance Hartke, D Ind. predicted here yesterday that President Nixon will issue a "dramatic proelection standstill cease fire statement to the North Vietnamese in Paris." 
Hartke made the comment 'during a news conference. He is 
scheduled  to  return  to  
Indianapolis  for  another  news  
conference in Democratic  state  

headquarters Tuesday at 3 pm. 
"Every indication points to the fact that President Nixon has finally become convinced that he is obligated to honor his 1968 campaign promise of an earnest effort to end the Indo-Chinese War," Hartke said. "If it takes the threat of an over whelming Democratic victory at the poles in November to finally force the 
-President to take his own 
campaign pledge seriously, that 
is all right with me." 
Harte said he is basing his 

peace results. 
prediction partially on his belief 
STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION 

Presents 


Johnny Rivers 
1French Separtists kidnap British diplomat in Canada 
MONTREAL (UPI) A 

Frem:h  Canadian  separatist  
group  kidnapped  the  senior  
British  trade  commissioner  

yesterday, and gave the government 48 hours to meet a I ong list of ransom demands--including payment of half a million dollars in gold and safe passage out of the country. 
It wa:s Canada's first diplomatic kidnapping. 
Four men, three of them armed with sub-machine guns forced their way into the elegant "downtown home of James R. Cross--the c:quivalent of a British consul in Montreal-and took him away in a taxi as his wife watched. 
In an eight page ransom note sent to the news media and police the kidnappers identified themselves as members of the Fronte Libt:ration Quebecois. 
F LQ, a militant underground group sec:king independence from English-speaking Canada for French-speaking Quebec. 
Provincial Justice Minister Jerome Choquette told a news conference the FLO's ransom demands for the release of Cross · included: 
-Release of "a certain number" of jailed separatists; -Payment of a "voluntary tax" of $500,000 in gold, 
-An airliner and safe pass&ge for the released prisoners, the kidnappers,, and the gold, "to Cuba or Algeria"; 
-Identification in Quebec newpapers with a phcto, of the 
that Senate Minority leader Hugh Scott's recent comment 
_about a statement from the President on Vietnam ts something more than merely an educated guess of the President's intentions." 
'·We have long since learned that we cannot expect a military settlement in Southeast Asia­and the President has told us that we cannot win such a 
set~leme~t--so !t is time for ••••••••••t••••••••••• 
senous diplomatic talks," Hartke e • said. "I am certainly not in favor. Welcome : 
of a so called 'bug out' in : • Vietnam but I hope an orderly, • : honorable withdrawal of our : 11.11 D •
. .., . . 
men can be arranged through • TA I L(l R • 
proper diplomatic negotiations." e ~ SHOP e 
The Paris negotiations on : Hrs. 8-12 12:30 4: 15 : Vietnam began while Lyndon B. e 5 DAYS A WEEK • John_son was_ Presid~nt and have : AI terations done for all: contmu_ed smce ~txon became • occasi"ons. Nlext to Washing-: our chtef executive, but never : • e have produced any tangible • ton Hall .Across from thee 
.;.~J:~eeen••••••••••:. 


Tickets $1, $4, $2
Sha-na-·na 
. STUDENT UNION 
TICKET OFFICE . BOOKSTORE . DINING HALLS 

informant who turned an FLQ cell in to police recently. 
Witnesses heard the kidnappers grunt "We're the FLQ" as they forced their way into the Cross home, said Chief Detective Inspector Roland Jodoin. 
In an eight page letter addressed to the news media and police, the FLQ, claiming credit for the kidnapping, demanded in return for the release of Cross that they b<: paid $500,000 in gold, certain jailed separatists be released, and they be provided with an airliner and safe ..passage to Havana, said Quebec Provincial Police Inspector J.R. 
Melancon. City police confirmed the ransom terms. The ransom demands were relayed to the federal 


Blu~e Mantle editors alte~r SMC yearbook 
by Hillary Rhonan 

Vicki Mech and Jeannie Du how students at the college are Fon, editors of the 1971 St. affected by the type of school Mary's yearbook Blue Mantle, SMC is, how the school affects· said today !that it would be a the rest of their lives and how different annual from previous each person affects the lives of editions. They listed a co-ed many other people. staff and a new editorial board SMC will be reviewed in all its 
as examples of the changes they aspects, and all groups and ideas plan to makl:. There will also be will be represented. a more evenlly distributed repre-...--------------+ 
sentation of students faculty, and administration, and there will be a greater stress on the academic aspects of SMC. 
The editors pointed out that: this year's theme for book \s people. The yearbook will be concerned with how SMC and its people inter-relate and work together toward common goals, and it will also show the things which help the SMC student to become a fuller happier person. Through pic­tures and words it will show govern_ment in O~tawa, but there was no immediate indication of whether. the terms would be met. A government spokesman said earlier that Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau convoked his top advisers in "an urgent session" 
when  the  kidnapping  was  
revealed.  
A  spokesman  for  the  

department of External Affairs in Ottawa, said the ransom note was "strikingly similar" to a note uncovered by police this summer who broke up an alleged plot by a separatist group to kidnap Harrison W. Burgess, then the U.S. Consul m MontJ;eal. 
The ransom terms were basically the same in that instance, he said. Three men were arrested and their case is before a Montreal court. 
Have a news tip? 
Call The Observer---8661 
. 
CHICAGO 

715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (31:2) 944-7500 ·ZIP: 60611 
Please add ·sales tax where applicable 

The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Ob· server, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46 556. 

Page 4 THB Q&flRPIR 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Studlent New...,., 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
L-----------------~------------------------------------------------------------­
Princeton Plan (2) 
Last Friday the Notre Dame Student Body, with a convincing finality, called a moratorium to its participation in the national democratic process. 
The proportions of the vote were mind-bending. At least, it bent the minds of those who still held the hope that the students of this University didn't sell the political birthright they won last May for a mess of Thanksgiving turkey. But that part, at least, is over. 
There are all sorts of things on which we could blame the landslide: Dave Krashna, for procrastinating on his endorsement; the Scholastic, for weakening their endorsement, WSND, for their opposition; the Academic Council for making the terms of the agreement so harsh and dissonant that it was inpalatable tc the weak, but the issue would be skirted if we passed the blame to small individual entities. 
We are the guilty party. Let it be noted here that we, the Student Body of the University of Notre Dame, rejected our first chance ever to effect American politics a:. free men. We rejected it overwhelmingly, and with unmistakable clarity. And in rejecting it, we confessed our willingness to take the consequences of the campaigns and elections over the next four years of our life. 
During the next four years, a large number of students at this University will pretend that this year-1970-marked the breakdown of the American political svstem Then let us mark, too, the fact that in 1970 it was not the American political :.ystem, but us which broke down. 
PRINCETON PLAN POLLING 
About the only good thing about the election was the way it was run-efficiently and honestly. Student Government could take a lesson and a half about running elections from this escapade. There was a theory-long cherished by Student Government-that if ballot boxes were put outside every door everybody on campus would vote, and that would be a Good Thing. 
We submit that the late referendum indicates precisely the opposite. It indicates that when an election is held in a place where it tak,~s a minimal amount of effort to find and a little bit of exercise to reach, the voting public is more informed and more interested . And that we submit is a Good Thing. 

LEIIERS 
Escape Lammers and the Rock 
Dear Editor: hell of a difficult time. "Editor: 
Through devious means, (class 4. I distrust Nixon and fear Well I had hoped that this attendance, study, etc.,) I Agnew. year I could relax, study, and managed to graduate from the Some people interested in the ignore the flamers-but, no, you 
University in the Spring of this conservative politics of Nixon had to let Dave Lammers out year. I love the University for find themselves so engaged from under his rock and annoy the joy it has given me and hate because they are in positions of me with the worst example of it for the grief which it has power whose existence depends irrationality and spleen-venting dispensed in unfortunately upon .the preservation of I've seen in a long time. 1 am greater measure. (Tuff inequitable institutions. (An referring, of course, to his article stuff-weaknesses are inherent in outright slur at the of September 17. all institutions.) administration of this 
Lammers calls anyone heUniversity.) 
opposes a nazi; anyone he disagrees with is a pervert whoI write now because I am enjoys sending people to beconcerned at the Provost's · As for the danger of killed; anyone who sees thestatements in the Observer interrupting the academic necessity for a strong Americanconcerning student participation year-you students are also military is another Himmler.
in election campaigns during citizens; you are going to have to Funny thing, the people who use
October of this year. 
live with the men who are such language are the same ones elected this year. l hope you who scream, "Polarization!" the don't have to spend the rest of loudest when their victims 
The premises behind my your lives unravelling the finally get angry enough to misgivings are these: bastards of this decade. retort. 
l . Republicans have the 
money to publicize their May I suggest, then, that candidates. Lammers shut up until he can 
2. 
Students usually work for If this statement is an affront talk and write intelligently-or be independents and Democrats to anyone, I can be reached at honest and shave his head and (when the particular Democrat Rural Route 4, Box 96, wear a swastika armband like all has the balls to stand for Frankfort, Kentucky. (Please the other lillie Sturmen something decent.) mark the outside of the letter So/daten since 1936. 

3. 
Without external(student?) "Observer opinion" to ensure help, independents and ballsy forwarding.' Stephen Noe Democrats are going to have a Charles B. Wordell 306 Pangborn 


Tuesday, October 6, 1970 


.. Now that is lifelike!'' 

on Fr. McGrath 
In this, the last of the series of articles reflecting on the present situation at St. Mary's College, it is fitting to examine the direction in .which the college is moving. Little can be said concerning concrete advances in the future, for at the moment St. Mary's is searching for someone to take the place left by the death of Msgr. McGrath. 
This place is currently being held by Sister M. Alma Peter, 
C.S.C. formerly Assistant to I'resident McGrath. Since coming to St. Mary's twenty years ago, Sr. M. Alma ha~ held the posts of Director of Admissions Dean of Freshmen, and Academic Dean. As Acting President, Sr. M. Alma is perhaps the best qualified to speak on the direction of St. Mary's. 
Having worked under four presidents at St. Mary's, Sr. M. Alma has seen definite progress made, "as far as continuing excellence in teaching and upgrading of the academic areas." Upgrading can be seen in such areas as pass/fail, the Madeleva Scholars programs, and the participation by St. Mary's in the programs abroad as well as the St. Mary's Campus in Rome. 
Progress under Msgr. McGrath was made in both social and academic areas. "He more or less set up a new idea of the college community. He increased participation in the college by setting up committees from the Board of Trustees on down on which students and faculty were included as well as administrators." Community Governmnet originated during Msgr. Ml--Grath's administration and social reforms such as no-hours, and a new dress code came into being. 
Thus, under the administration of Msgr. McGrath, St. Mary's progressed and changed. Now in his absence new directions must be chosen and followed through. 
At present there is much discussion as to the advisability of St. Mary's becoming coeducational with the University of Notre Dame. Daily the pros and cons of the situation are discussed on both campuses. The ultimate decision is not imminent but according to Sr. M. Alma there are "great advantages in having an academic co-educational situation. And I also believe in a coeducational social and cultural community. But I still think there are advantages to a woman's residential college." 
Asked about the future of St. Mary's if Notre Dame would go co-educational independently, Sr. M. Alma stated that as long as applications keep up, there would be no problem. Last year for the present Freshmen class, there were 3778 requests for information, 984 applications, and 507 freshmen currently enrolled in classes. 
Sister sees definite advantages to St. Mary's remaining a separate institution, such as freedom in the dorms and the residential aspect of the college. "As far as academics, we've always mentioned the fact that smaller classes make for easier dialogue with students. I think the liberal arts area should be continued and strengthened because this is something a small college should do and be able to do well." 
The selection of a new president will be a large factor in the direction which St. Mary's will take. As a member of the search committee, Sr. M. Alma says she personally is looking for " the best possible person for this period of development at St. Mary's. A person who might have been a candidate I 0 years ago might not be right for 1970. We're not looking for some big name but a person who might be a leader. And also someone who will maintain the real aims of St. Mary's as a Catholic Liberal Arts College." 
Thus St. Mary's College is at a crossroads. She has made advances in the realm of academic and has maintained her status as a residential Catholic Libeml Arts College. The question of her future can only be answered by the new President when he decides the directions in which she is to go. With Msgr. McGrath's death, St. Mary's has had a time to reflect her worth and her goals. We've come a long way--but there's still a long way to go. 
Tuesday, October 6, 1970 
THB OBSERUM Page 5 

Merton's ''Faith and Violence ,, 
The Title of this book, its As a matter of fact, Merton's then retire to the North Pole. J will inevitably become a partner no line but the party line. This Phil Berrigan and attitude
dedication to writing on violence here may be see that just lately someone has in its cruelties. It is a pity that not only demytholo­
Jim Forest, and Father Merton's the least interesting part of the stolen at least the title. gizes Christianity. It annihilates
Merton did not live long enough 
known position on the Viet Nam book, not because what he says it as anything distinctive in
Thomas Merton is a monk, a to see a formidable part of the 
war could easily mislead the is in any way untrue but because contemplative, and he regards generation uniting to itself. It gives up old myths only
younger
prospective reader into suppos­one heard before. The to accept new unques­
has it himself as one called to view and repudiate this culture and all its myths 
ing that he would find in it a tioningly. "Mankind has at last
most important point in it to review current happenings, ideas works. wars and affluence. It
thoroughgoing discussion of war this reviewer is his calling for an trends somewhat come of age." "Modern man will
and from a would have done his heart good. violence and the Christian con­honest and well worked out timeless positio.n. This is a kind There is a wonderful inspiration accept nothing that is not science. I should imagine that theology of resistance. Christian of relevance and involvement emperically verifiable." "The
to a Christian (and it should be 
many students have bought the language of the modern man is
speculative thinking has for quite opposite from that of the such to a Christian trustee of the
book under this misapprehen­much too long a time been man completely submersed in the language of science." Indeed 
university) when he sees a groupsion. A title more fitting the concerned with defending the now of the secular city. And of young people to whom the the very concept of "Modern content might be: Essays on the. obedience to authority rather since most voices are calling us man" is itself a myth. Did you
slogan "you never had it so war the Christian conscience, than resistance to it. Even in the to come in and be submersed, it good" has no appeaL I have ever see one? racism and violence irr the Here again, it is sad that
old days I had somewhat humor­is a joy to hear one voice of one personally had a rather large
United States, and reflexions on Merton did not live long enough 
ously declared that I was going very intelligent and "contem­acquaintance among pigs (real
the new theologies. Much of the to experience the last two years.
to write a book entitled "The porary" man speaking of con­pigs, that is) and I never knew a Place of Hofy Disobedience in
material had been published It is simply a fact that most
temporary things without going pig to be dissatisfied with a state
before, as is mentioned in the the Life of the Church", and overboard with or causes, and especially religious
enthusiasm of affluence. I never knew a pig
acknowledgments. causes, arrive at maturation just
with panic. in a state of affluence to be in time to be late. Our advocatesThomas Merton understands concerned because there were of "Modern man" have gained aRORY McHUGH and he sympathizes. He knows other pigs who were in dire hearing just when modern man,
~=~===~:m=~:=:=:=:=~'*=~=:~;::~:;,~=:=:=::::::· the Fathers and he knows the poverty, or who gave up their 
whoever he is, is on the point ofthinkers of the present day. He affluence so that the poor pigs becoming extinct. The wholecan be loyal and still criticize. It could eat. What the young realization of our ecological peril One for the record is this unique position of his that people of our ''subculture" are has dampened our ideal ofmakes him so truly worth doing is proving to me that
The Byrds, probably the most versatile and consistent group to technological progress. The lan­
listening to. He can understand human beings are not pigs. This
~"rvive the sixties is back again with a new album, The Byrds guage of our young people is
the black man's attraction to is why I say that it would have
(Untitled), proves to anyone who might dare doubt it, that the anything but the language of
violence without believing that it done Merton's heart good if he
group is not only still very much alive but also a very vital force on science. They are taking very
is the best move for him. He could have seen the present day
today's pop scene. The personnel changes that almost killed the seriously the language of astro­
respects the greatness of Malcom (and no doubt he does see it and 
Byrds have all been resolved, and under the leadership of Roger logy. They are fascinated by
X and at the same time is aware is glad).
McGuinn they have evolved into the best commercial country groups Eastern thought. They speak
of the rather naive mythology It is from the standpoint of
around today. about the Age of Aquarius. They
under which he operated at least his disbelief in the traditional· Byrds (Untitled) is a double album consisting of two sides 
until near the end of his life. 
values of Western culture that
recorded in concert and two studio sides. "Live", they play the great enemy are looking for a "gene-leap"
For Merton Merton criticizes the new theo­
countrified versions of some of their biggest hits, ("Mr. Tambourine about the year 2000, which will
-you can see it in all the essays logies. They all in one way
Man," "So You Want To Be a Rock and Roll Star " "Mr. or produce a better race of men.
-is the Western technological another accept the secular citySpaceman"),·as well as some potent new material, (of which "Lover (Shades of Karnap!)
culture with its exploiting and
of the Bayou" is outstanding.) Also included is a sixteen-and-a-half and advocate our submergance It may be that the views of
its myths of service, altruism and in it. They all come dangerouslyminute rendition of "Eight Miles High," during which McGuinn, Thomas Merton, the contempla­
general exclle.nce. This culture is
who has to be the world's most underrated guitarist, finally gets a near saying "Whatever is is tive monk, will be popularly
so overwhelming that an indivi­right." They offer no basis for
mm:h deserved chance to flash. · accepted sooner after his death
dual can hardly resist giving in to any criticism of it. We can onlyWhat the new Byrds do best however is their "almost-but­than has been the case with mostit. And yet a Christian must go along with its revolution,
noL·quite" country music. Much of the material offered herein is in prophets.
resist. The Christian who gives in whatever turn it takes. There is
the vein of their Ballad of Hasy Rider album, only in most cases much sharper. Especially good are "Chestnut Mare", "Yesterday's Train", and "Just a Season.'' The only glaring weakpoint on the album is bassist Skip Battin's singing. To say that Battin is vocally 
BOOK OF JOB
incompetent is to do him a favour, hut fortunately he can only be heard enough to distract you on one cut. The St. Mary's College Per­
American TV for audiences
All in all, Byrds (Untitled) is probably the best thing they've done forming Arts Series will open Mary's. Full ticket information
which number in the hundreds
since Crosby and Hillman left the group some years ago. It's a October 6 with a presentation of may be obtained from the
of thousands.
pleasant combination of sophistication and "down home." In short. the highly acclaimed 'The Book Pwgramming Office, Moreau
"The Book of Job" will be
it's good. of Job" by the Everyman Itall, 284-4176. 
presented for one night at St.
Neil Young's After the Goldrush was eagerly anticipated, eagerly Players in O'Laughlin Auditor­bought, eagerly played, and rather disappointing. Young, once a ium at 8 p.m. member of Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young, has a real talent for A choral drama, "The Book songwriting, and plays a pretty tolerable guitar, but unfortunately of Job" presents one of the has his vocal difficulties. (My roommate swears he sounds like a oldest stories in the world, the castrated Frankie Valle.) While things may not be that bleak, he very Biblical story of Job's undying definitely does lack the vocal strength that is needed to put his songs faith in God in the face of across well. (By way of comparison, try to imagine Wayne Newton extreme torment by the devil. singing "Just Like a Woman.") It is the production, however 
The album itself is a change of pace for Young. He uses alot more that marks "The Book of Job" acoustic guitar than he did on the Crazy Horse album. Gone are the as a unique contribution to the driving leads with the fuzz and the tremelo that seemed to jump out professional religious theatre. of the speaker at you and beat you over the head Instead can be The lines arc spoken and heard a very definite country influence and some fine niano work by chanted, often in chorus, in the Nils Lofgren. 
beautiful and poetic language of As for the songs, for the most part they're very good with "I the King James Bible. Support­Believe in You," Lonesome Me," and "Southern Man" among the 
ing the mood is an original score best, while "Don't· Let It Bring You Down" wins the prize 
as of haunting thematic music by Young's least appealing song ever. If you like Neil Young and have a 
Johan Franco. Integrated with few extra dollars lying around just begging to be spent the album's the body movements of the worth the investment. If you don't it isn't. players, the effect is somewhat Also new, and this time very good, is Crowfoot, the debut album hypnotic. for a San Franciscan group of the same name. Their style is hard to 
An even more outstandingdescribe, ·being a combination of jazz and folk and rock and feature of the presentation is the everything else you can think of that's good and fresh and alive. costuming. The actors appear as Mainstay of the group is a fellow named Russell DaShiell, who wrote living mosaic figures costumed all the songs, plays guitar, bass, and keyboards, sings all the lead in bright red, gold, blue and vocals and co-produced the entire package. Surprisingly enough, he nurple mosaic-effect robes. Even hasn't overextended himself in the least. He is quite competent on the makeup carries through the all the instruments he plays, although guitar does seem to be his design wilh mosaic colors and forte. 
lines drawn 'Jn the faces. 
DaShiell also has written some very pretty songs, with "Dancing "The Book of Job" was Lady" and "Love is Everywhere" being outstanding in a collection creatr~d by Orlin and Iren Corey of fine tunes. In fact the only bad, (and it's really not so much bad on a commission by the British WSND-fM poetry series as strange), thing about Crowfoot is the woodcut on the back of the Religious Drama Society. Since album jacket, which makes the group look to be dead-ringers for the its premier at Georgetown WSND-FM will present a produced by Maureen Schimizzi, illegitimate sons of Pancho Villa. In both the long and short run, College in Kentucky, the Every­bi-monthly show on the Notre the show will present Harold though, it's an excellent package. man ~layers, a professional Dame-Saint Mary's poets. On Isbell of the St. Mary's faculty in 
And before I go, let me tell you about the album the record repertory company, have pre­the first and third Tuesdays of its first broadcast. Later shows distributors sent us to listen to. It's called Borsalino, and it simply each month, at 7:00 p.m., the will feature Steven Brion. Rob
~eJtteJ it on thn•c continents in a defies description. I think it was intended to be the soundtrack to variety of settings from rural FM radio station (88.9 on your Bartelletti, Kenneth Mannings, some Italian grade D movie but it really turned out to be an American to the cathedrals of FM dial) will air the poetry of John Matthias. Ernest Sandeen, excellent frisbee. What it lacks in musical excellence it makes up for England, to the New York and various Notre Dame poets. Co­James Dougherty, John Hessler, in aerodynamic stability. We might try it out as a clay pigeon next. Brussels World Fairs to Latin ordinated by Rory Holsher and and John Stupp. 

Page 6 711E OBSERrJER Tuesday, October 6, 1970 
Nixon pledges 'full generation of peace' 
WASHINGTON (UPI) President Nixon said last night he hoped his 12,000 mile tour would help make possible "what this world has not had this century-a full generation of peace." 
In the exact words that he had expressed earlier in the day at the gravesite of his ancr:stors in Ireland, Nixon summed up his nine day trip as a voyage to remind America's antagonists of its strength and of its intention to use that strength for peace 
About 1 ,500 wellwishers­including cabinet members, leaders of Congress and many diplomats-welcomed Nixon and his wife in a huge hanger at Andrews Air Force Base, Md., near Washington. Mrs. Martha Mitchell, dressed in a bright orange coat, was especially prominent in the receiving line. 
The President, fresh and in good spirits despite ~is hectic travels, said he say young faces in the air base crowd and said, "What we want for them is what this world has not had this 

century, a full generation of peace." He said he hoped "that the trip may have contributed 
substantially to that goal.'  
Earlier,  standing  at  a  
graveyard  at  the  village  of  
Timahoe,  where  his  

great-great-great great-great grandfather, Thomas Milhous, was buried two centuries ago, Nixon dedicated a memorial to the dead and said there, too, that "a full generation of peace"-denied all young people in this century-was the goal of his presidency. 
Nixon palnned a report to Congressional members and the nation on his journey which brought him to Italy, the Vatican, the 6th fleet in the Mediterranean, Yugoslavia, Spain, Britian and Ireland. 
His purpose was chiefly to flex the nation's naval muscle in the Mediterranean where an expanding Soviet fleet is challenging America's dominance. But in the aftermath of the deat!r-of Egypt's Gamal 

followed him across the greenAbdel Masser he used t~very Trumpets sounded and countryside of Ireland throughchance to call upon Israel and Nixon's daughters Tricia and 
the Arabs to extend the 90 day Julie, and his son in law David most of his final day abroad. 
ceasefire, initiated by the United Eisenhower, rushed up the red · Nixon responded with 
States carpet to meet the President and enthusiasm even riding in an 
He said on his arrival home Mrs.. Nixon. open car through a sudden 
that any naton which breaks the Vice President Spiro T. downpour to wave at the 
ceasefire will incur displeasure of Agnew, back from a day of crowds, with first lady Pat 
much of the world. He said he politicking in New York City, Nixon beside him. 
found it supported by all the welcomed the President with But the tightest security
leaders he met. confidence America's relations 
Ireland has seen failed twice to And he said he found far with its NATO allies in southern 
prevent antiwar protestors more understanding for Europe had been improved by slipping through police lines. to Amerca's role in Vietnam and the trip "in that critical and very hurl eggs at his limosine after he his policy of gradual withdrawal touchy area." After his speech, 
arrived in Dublin for talks with than existed in February 1969. Nixon exhilerated, waved his 
President Eamon de Valera and when fresh to the presidency, arms campaign style, shook Prime Minister Jack Lynch.
Nixon toured Europe. many hands in the crowd and Three eggs splattered the
Despite differences of opinion flew to the White House in a car 
on the streets of Dublin andwith America among the world Marine helicopter. 
later en route to the airport,leaders he met, Nixon said, Ireland was the sentimental two eggs and other unidentified"They recognize the fact that finale to the President's trip, and objects were thrown. The eggsthe United Statt's with its great it gavve him an exhilirating missed, but the other objectspower does not represent a welcome. 
struck the side of the car, whichthreat to the independence of Friendly cheering crowds of sped away. 1 any nation in the world." adults and school children 

Manson assaults Judge with pencil 
LOS ANGELES (UPI) Black Magic"-and refusing to be With that, the ex-convict rose, Charles Manson dived 10 feet silent. put one foot on the five-foot across a table with a yellow lead Late Monday morning he was wide table and hurtled head first pencil in his hand trying to get brought in again, apparently toward the judge's bench, at the judge in the Tate murder subdued, and he sat quietly landing spre!l;leagled after the I 0 trial courtroom Monday after during the two minute foot leap while women jurors threatening the magistrate's life. testimony of a minor state recoiled in fright. 
The five foot~ 120 pound witness in the 16 week-old trial Sherif's Deputy William defendent landed on his face on for the seven Tate LaBianca Murray dived right after Manson the floor in front of the tall slayings. and landed on top of him while bench where Judge Charles H. As another witness was being the frantic defendant was trying Older was seated and a deputy called, Manson suddenly to get to his feet. Another hurtled across a counsel table interrupted. "Are you going to deputy jumped over the table 
and flattened Manson before he use this courtroom to kill me?" and a third hurtled the railing could get to his feet,, he demanded of Judge Older. separating the spectators to 
Manson was shrieking as he Older told him to keep quiet or subdue Manson. was dragged out, his arms he would be removed. "The After the defendant was led twisted behind his back. minute I see you are going to kill from the courtroom, Older 
"You think I'm kidding," he me, you know what I am going calmly noted for the trialrecord cried in a high voice. "In the to do," said Manson. that "Manson had jumped in the name of Christian justice Judge Older, 48, a pilot with direction of the bench)' and someone should cut your head the original Flying Tigers in the ordered the proceedings to 
continue. When the girls put on

off." China-Burma theater before The three female their act, he had them removed
World War II, looked down on co-defendants, seated at the the tiny defendant who was also. table, began chanting over and seated in a chair between When the afternoon session of over again: twodefense attorneys. "What are the trial got underway all four 
'-Nome Deo", Latin for "In you going to do?" said Older. defendants were absent from the the name of God, you are killing fixing Manson with a glare. courtroom. All four were taken him." Manson seemed taken back. 
to anterooms where they could 

The trio also was dragged ''You are using this hear the testimony via loud from the courtroom while the courtroom to kill me ... " he speakers_ predominantly middle-aged jury began. It was not known whether looked on in astonishment. "Mr. Manson, I'm going to Manson would be permitted to The bearded, 35 have you removed if you don't come into the trial room again 
year-old hippie cult leader had stop." with the opportunity to make been taken from the courtroom 'Tm going to have you another such di~play. the past two sessions after removed if you don't stop," said The judge has precedence for 
breaking into song-"The Old Manson. "I have a little system having Manson and the girlsGrey Mare" and 'That Old of my own." 
bound and gagged if necessary. 

Bodin residents re-do halls with free point 
"This is really great! It shows The action was taken because the first time in the memory of 
that the guys in this hall are of the rundown condition of the anyone in the maintenance 
really interested in the place walls and the refusal of the department that anything of this 
they're living in. As far as I am University maintenance sort was done. He further hoped 
concerned, it was a treme:ndous department to repaint the walls that this would start a trend 
success." until next summer. In an toward student interest in 
These were the words of agreement reached with the matters "of practical inten!st.l' 
Badin Hall President Buz Imhoff maintenance department the ·The painting of Badin Hall is 
after the residents of Badin Hall, residents of the hall supplied the the latest in a series of 
under his supervision, organized labor and the University innovative practices begun by 
themselves by sections and supplied the "University President Imhoff and 
painted the w~lls of their hall approved O'Brien paint.'' Vice-President Bob Higgins since 
Saturday morning. According to Imhoff, this was their election last February. 
Previously known as one of the 
most apathetic halls on campus

Homecoming Open Sales because of the ineffectiveness of 
the hall officers. Badin has since 
revamped its hall government

Dance Tickets 
council structure to include everyone in the hall. This feeling .Motel Rooms of participation, contends Imhoff, enables programs such
Football Tickets 
as the hall painting and the First Come, First Serve ~ changes in Homecoming Tues. Oct. 6, 4:00-5:00 proposed at the last Hall Presidents Council meeting to
6:30-8:00pm.-Student Union Offices 

14 get maximum support. 
I I 
l 
l 

Tuesday, October 6, 1970 THE OBSERVER. Page 7 
----~------------~-----------------------------­
Irish opponents should help ranking 

by Terry Shields Observer Sports Editor 
When the last few weeks of the season roll around there just might be a reshufffling of the top teams in the nation as far as the wire r ranking is concerned. This reshuffling will be a direct result of the strengths and weaknesses of opposing teams. 
If Notre Dame can manage to go through the season unbeaten along with Ohio State, Texas, and Mississippi, the obvious choice of the team with the roughest schedule would have to be the Irish. 
After four weeks of the season has been completed there are six teams on the Irish slate with winning records The combined record of all ND opponents is 20-13-1. 
A glance at the Irish schedule 
might clarify rna t ters. 
Jim Donaldson 
Sports Shorts 
How about that Irish defense! They have given up just 3 74 yards 
rushing in the first three games and have yielded only 213 yards 
through the air, while holding the opposition to a mere 4.7 points 
per game. 
The alert Notre Dame "D' has intercepted five passes and 
recovered five fumbles thus far. 
Opposing quarterbacks have completed just 26% of their passes 
22 of 84, against the Irish. 
Clarence Ellis and Walt Patulski, both bidding for All-American 
honors, led the Notre Dame defensive effort against Michigan State. 
Ellis notched his third interception in as many games to kill a first 
quarter Spartan scoring threat while Patulski spent so much time in 
the MSU backfield that he should have had a green jersey on. 
The Irish defense has given up but one touchdown this season, 
that score coming on a 23-yard march by Northwestern. 
The Irish will be hunting their third straight shutout Saturday 
versus Army. The last Notre Dame team to ring up three successive 
whitewashing was the 1966 national championship unit. 
The Cadets have been shutout in their last three meetings with the 
Irish, losing 17-0 in '65, 35-0 in '66, and 45-0 last season. 
The Notre Dame ground game accounted for .366 yards Saturday 
the season's best figure. Joe Theismann was the club's top runner, 
gaining 113 yards. 
Bobby Minnix and Larry Parker saw a good deal of action against 
State and both were impressive. 
Denny Allan, the team's No. I running back, suffered an ankle 
injury Saturday and will miss the Army game but should be back in 
action for the Missouri contest. 
Generally, the team's reaction to the Tartan surface in Spartan 
Stadium was not favorable. The Irish prefer grass to the "rug". 
Joe Theismann and Tom Gatewood dazzled the Spartan stadium 
crowd of 76,103 by combining for 9 completions, good for 117 
yards. Theismann hit on 12 of 17 passes on a windy day not 
conducive to an accurate aerial attack. 
Gatewood now has 28 catches and needs but 33 more in the next 
seven games to break Jack Snow's single season pass reception mark 
of 60, set in 1964. 
Scott Hempel kept his perfect kicking record intact, booting two 
extra points. He now has put 13 of 13 PAT's through the uprights 
and is two for two in the field goal department. 
The Orioles had too much firepower for the Twins and took the 
American League playoff while the Big Red Machine swept1Jhree 
games from the Pirates in taking the National League crown. Last 
week, I confidently picked the winners of these playoffs but this 
week I'm torn between logic and loyalty. I'd like to see the Reds win 
but. because of the questionable pitching, I'll have to pick the Birds . from Baltimore in six games. 
Booters tie again 
Kevin Kniely's goal with four minutes left in the fourth quarter enabled the Fighting Irish soccer team to salvage a 1-1 tie with Marquette in a match played Saturday in Mil­waukee. The Notre Dame boaters are now 1-1-2 on the season. 
Marquette had grabbed a 1-0 lead by virtue of a second quarter goal but the Warriors were unable to hold their advan­tage. Late in the game Kniely took a pass from· Tom Shriver Northwestern has not been able to win a ball game in three outings. One loss was to ND and the other two have been "nail biters" with UCLA taking the measure of the Wildcats 12-7 and SMU scoring 23 to their 20. 
Purdue is one Irish foe that may convince many pollsters of the Notre Dame strength. The Boilers have shutout Texas Christian and upset previously unbeaten and highly regarded Stanford. The men from Lafayette were not quite so fortunate when they came to South Bend, yet they must still be given recognition for their two big wins. 
Michigan State can help the Irish cause this weekend with an impressive showing against Ohio State at East Lansing The Spartans have split a pair of games with two Washington 
about 30 feet from the goal and booted home the tying marker for the Irish. 
Neither club was able to score in a pair of five-minute overt­imes. 
The contest was rough and tumble throughout and two players from each club were ejected from the game. 
Notre Dame's boaters will be in action again t!J.is weekend, hosting the Michigan Wolverines Saturday at I 0 a.m. behind Stepan Center. 
opponents (WSU and UW) besides their whitewashing by the Irish. 
The two service academies will not make much of an impression on sportswriters or opposing coaches with a combined record of 2-6 but each have been a traditional game for Notre Dame thus they appear as "breathers" for the Irish. 
Missouri as was expected, has fielded another tough ball club in the rugged Big Eight Conference. The tigers are 3-1, losing to Air Force and whipping 
Baylor, Missouri and Oklahoma 
State. They are one of the major 
threats to the perfect slate of 
Notre Dame. No doubt they 
will be sky high for the October 
I 7 match with ND at Columbia. 
Pittsburgh, after a near upset of UCLA, has come on to beat two unheralded opponents in Baylor and Kent State so no one actually knows what the Panthers can really do. Their game with West Virginia,if they win, can make the ND schedule that much more impressive. 
Georgia Tech has been the most surprising of all the Notre Dame foes. The Yell ow Jackets are undefeated and untied in four contests and they are becoming more prominent in the national rankings each week. With seven home games in Atlanta this season their record should still be impressive for their November 14 appointment in South Bend. 
After an upset by Texas A&M, Louisiana State has managed to bring its record to a very fine 3-1. The big question that Irish fans are asking is can the Tigers hold Archie and the Bear's teams in tact before their late autumn date in scenic Northern Indiana? 
Southern Cal was felt by many to be the strongest team in the nation this fall but a rugged tie with Nebraska should halt the Trojans from any No. I activity. To make the ND schedule that much· more formidable SC victories over Stanford this weekend and UCLA later are necessary. 
The National Ch~mpionship might just not be conceded to Woody or Darrell after all. 
Ruggers drop Spartans 
by J.W. Findling -The Irish ruggers won their 
second straight game with a 
brilliant 20-6 victory over Mich­igan State at East Lansing last Saturday. The well-deserved win kept the ruggers undefeated. 
The hard fought battle was highlighted by the outstanding defensive performance of Irish senior Jim Hagenbarth who stopped several Spartan drives. The scoring for the Notre Dame Rugby Club looked like a reunion for second floor Kee­nan. Seniors Tom Herlihy, Charles "Jack" Blum, and Mark "Savage" Rubinelli (all ex­second floor Keenan men) scored the tries for Notre Dame. Herlihy opened the scoring with a fine run from outside the 20. Blum and Rubinelli each scored twice to bring their season total to three tries apiece. Doug Smego, a sophomore who just moved up to the "A" team, made two conversions and kicked a 25-yard penalty kick to complete the Irish scoring. 
The Irish "B" squad tied the 
Off-Campus, last year's cham­pions, tied Dillon 12-12 Sunday in the Interhall ·football season opener. In other League Two action, Alumni defeated Walsh 14-6. Sorin. was idle. 
Badin was victorious over Pangborn 14...:.0 and shares the early leadership of League One with Holy Cross which beat Lyons 18.,.-6. Morrissey did not play. 
In League Three Breen-Phillips edged Farley 6-0, and Cavanaugh topped St. Joe's 12-0, while Zahm was idle. 
Purque. This Saturday the rug­rough defensive struggle. gers should really get tested The "A" team game was an when they play Indiana Univer emotional one and was plagued 
Spartan "B" team 0-0 in a sity, last year's Big Ten cham­pions. The "B" team game starts with several cheap shots; how­at 9:00 a.m. behind Stepan
ever the Notre Dame ruggers Center, followed by the "A"
looked much sharper against game.
MSU than in their opener against 
ND Sailors place lllglt 
The Notre Dame Sailing Club competed in two regattas over the weekend. The Irish placed high in both matches. In the 
·regatta at Bloomington with host Indiana University, ND finished third in a field of seven Midwest schools. Tom Willison and Will Donalon were repre­senting du Lac. Donalon was impressive by sailing either first or second in every race except for one in which he capsized. 
The other regatta was held in Milwaukee, Wisconsin with Marquette University serving as the host squad. Kevin Hoyt was the outstanding Irish sailor as he finished second m his division. George Gaw and Tom Salack also competed for the Irish who managed a second place finish among seven schools. 
The next action for the ND sailors takes place next Saturday as they travel to Ann Arbor for the Michigan Regatta. This is the second biggest regatta in the Midwest. This will be the first time that Notre Dame will pool her talent for a regatta and an optimistic outlook is held by the Sailing Club. 
In two weeks Notre Dame will host a dectagonal regatta on Octob• ~8. 
-II 
Grace had the largest margin of victory Sunday, conquering St. Ed's 18-0. Keenan beat Stanford 6-0, and Flanner did not play. 
Each team plays its four opponents once and has one idle date. The regular season ends November !st. 
Next week will see Lyons vs. Pangborn, Stanford vs. St. Ed's, Holy Cross vs. Morrissey, and Flanner vs. Keenan. Also, Sarin vs. Alumni, St. Joe's vs Zahm, Walsh vs. Off-Campus, and Far­ley vs. Cavanaugh. 


Page 8 THE O&rEIII£It 
Tuesday, October 6, 1970 

Referendum deemed •out of order' by ICrashna 
«Proper means ofillumination during periods ofcerebral meditation ofttimes results in an environmental metamorphosis beneficial to 
(continued from paKe 1) 

must be submitted by 6 p.m. on the following Friday. The campaign begins on Saturday at 6 ·p.m. and ends at 2 am. on Wednesday, October 14. The election will be held in the halls and in the Off-Campus Office on the fourteenth. 
Stone said that he could not say for certain how many signatures would be needed for nomination. Procedure will be handled by the elections committee which consists of the 
stay  senators,  Krashna  and  
Winnings.  
Stone  thought  that  even  

though this year's election is later than usual it is still "a normal election-not a special one." Commenting on the delay, Stone said that Krashna and Winnings "needed the senate in order to propose a revision of 
the catwho's using it:' 
The right kind of lamp can do good things to your head. As well as your studies. 
Like the Panasonic Fluorescent Desk Lamp. With an electronic gizmo that gets 22 watts of light out of a 15-watt bulb. And sends some of that extra light through the trans­lucent shade that keeps your brilliantly illuminated crib notes from blinding you. 
And if you have a small room or a small-minded roommate who likes to sleep occasionally, you ought to have Panasonic's High Intensity Lamp. With its sliding lever that gives you an 

YOURSElf UP 

TO POSTER SIZE 
Send any black and while or 

2FT 3FT $3 50 
~~~~~o~h~~o·m~~~~~~~d :;~~: X • ~i~r~~~Gi::~~,e~oo'rri ~:~!~~: 1 '/, FT. X 2 FT. $2.50 ~g~'"' .n~~~J~~ :r~r.f:l~~:: 3 FT. x4 FT. $7.so 
Your original returned undamaged. Add SOc for posta1e handlinr fc;r EACH item ordered.· Send check, cash or M.O. (No C.O.D.) To,
BLOW·UP PO BOX 589 NY 10010 NY 
.. the .constitution." 
"It (the constitution;.:! revision committee) is a Senate committee and Dave (Krashna) 
really  can't  dissolve  it  by  
himself "  he said.  
Stone  also  noted that  the  

amendment procedures of the present constitution require the Senate to either adopt the amendment directly by a two-thirds vote or schedule a "plebicite", if 500 students request one. 
Stone thought that the decision to hold the election was reached by "mutual agreement" within student government, "not a power play." 
Winnings disagreed with Stone's views on the necessity of the Senate for constitutional revision. He said that Student government would ask the new Senate to adopt the new constitution "in toto" but referendum. He noted that the considered this to be "unlikely." Senate is bound to provide for 
Winings said "the method of such a vote· within certain time adoption for the revised .Jimits as soon as the petitions constitution should be a have been submitted. 
Mario Savio returns to Berkely 
BERKELEY, Calif. (UPI) fhe University of California opened for its 10 l st year yesterday with the return to classes of Mario Savio and a mild threat from the banned Students for a Democrlltic Society. 
Savio, leader of the first widespread campus revolution during the free speech movement at Berkeley in 1964, returned to classes quietly as a junior studying biological sciences. ·During his self-imposed exile of five years from the Berkeley campus the 27 year 
infinite series of settings. From a cram-night 150 watts all the way down to a Saturday­night seductive glow. Now that you are adequately enlightened as to the relevance of proper illumina tlon to emotional homeostasis, ambulate to that repository of knowledge and sweat shirts, your college bookstore. Where you can look at Panasonic lamps and electric pencil sharpeners. After which, we think you'll agree that there's only one way to see things. Our way. 
PANASONIC® 
just slightly ahead of our time. 
old Savio worked as a bartender and bookstore clerk and spent a year at Oxford University in England. 
No incidents marred the first day of classes as approximately 27,500 students enrolled for the fall term, including about 2,700 freshmen. Several changes have occurred at the university since the spring. Some were aimed at preventing a repetition of the wave of student unrest which plagued Berkeley and other college communities across the nation last year. 
Ex·ec;utlve Editor.: John t(norr Man'lgln!j Editor: BIII.Cartef 
Editorial pag~ Edlt"or: T",~;.. 
Trlianor • News Ecll.tor• E.d EMis Features Ed~tofll Dav4L yam mer Sports Edltor::-.Terry'S«tlelck 
SMC News Editol': Jeann•. Sweeney 
~ssociate Edl~rs: 1)-•v_e Stauffer. Sue Bury Night Editor: Steve Lazar Layout: Chris Johnson, Randy Epping, Marty Miller Headlines: Ann Therese Darin 
The opinions exPf8$$80 1n · . editorills. newi en~ I columns of. i"h• ~ 
sorely the apiQions Qf the auth end editors of The ~ cfc) not nec:essaNy refltK:t VieVl!l of St. Mwv··, College, Un.......tV of No.r. D.,., 
edministrnons, f.cutty, 


_j 



