
VOL. tV. No. 70 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1970 
~~~-=~----------------~~~----~-­

Recommend continuation of the Placement Office .. 
present arguments from both an "aspect of the general pohtl­by Cliff Wintrode sides. cal activity" of the University. The Joint Committee on the One side of the controversy This side feels that the Univer-Placement Bureau released its pictured the question of who to sity is "incapable" of remaining final report to the Faculty Sen-allow to recruit as heiilg analo-neutral on major social and poli­ate and the Student Life council gous to the open speaker policy tical questions because it is not stating that the abolition of _the of the university, which allows simp I y a "little group of placement bureau at this tune anyone to come here and speak, scholars" hut an institution with would be "unjustifiable and "To deny certain students the "significant" social and econom­precipitous." right of hearing certain speakers ic "effects (e.g. from its invest­_The report o~ the joint com-is quite eqequivalent to denying ment policy)." . . . . m1t tee, constituted by the certain students the right to in-"Instead of exerc1smg a cnh-Faculty Senate and the Student terviewing with certain com-cal and prophetic function over ~ife ~ouncil last Ocotber, is the panics," states .the report. against i~s society, the University first Item on the agenda of An analogy was also drawn actively panders to and seeks today's Student f:ife Council between the open-speakers support from the government
Father Hesburgh and Alumni Representative Mr. Kearns at Fri­meeting. . . policy and the Student Senate and business and is quite willingday's meeting of the open University Forum, the first of three /he committee could fmd no bill requesting that if a petition to do favors in return," statessuch meetings this year. 
discrepancy between the signed by more than 100 stu-the report. b_ur_eau's sta~etl purpose of pro-dents is presented to a company This side decides that the Uni­~ldmg a servtce to stud~nts seek-they would have to send a repre-versity is not run primarily for
Forum disappointment 
mg employment and 1ts actual sentative to meet with the stu-the students, hut for the "goal operati?n ~.nd agreed with th~ dents before the company would of the yrevailing political and

fails to communicate 
Bureaus . Com_rletely open be allowed on campus. econom1c system .... lndced the p_olicy of allowmg an~ "bona-"Subjecting companies to the University feel that it must ful­by Don Ruane with by starving them to death fidc" employer to recru_It. necessity of meeting with groups fill the purposes-whatever they and by burning children, parents Father Thornton, Director of of students prior to the inter-may be--of those whom it under­
"That's the biggest farce the and women with napalm? It's the Placement Bureau, described viewing would be quite equiva-stands to depend for its financial world has ever seen", "Not 
not a point of whether some a "bona fide" employer as one lent to requiring controversial support."
much was accomplished" and man can't speak his mind or that has "intcr~iewed on other speakers to visit the campus and " ..It is willing to proceedThey're talking ahout the right don't have free speech at this campuses, has JOb o~portumt~ meet with students and/or other sIren uo u sly and with fewtopic but from the wrong per­particular instance, it's a point brochures, a_nd for wh1ch there IS groups prior to their receiving scruples against any who wouldspective", express the varying of people dying, of two-thirds of at least a shm _chance_ that ~om~ permission to speak on campus," effectively challenge the slightestdegrees of disappointment and the world starving to death and students w1ll s1gn to mterv1ew. the report goes on to say. part of that arrangement" . Thedissatisfaction with Friday's everyone in there knows it. I just Father Heshurgh was asked at This side also said that the University's speedy notificationevening's University Forum wish they'd start acting on it." Friday's University forum meet-company's decision whether or of the Notre Dame Ten's draftmeeting. 
John Wilson, a junior, added ing, whether he would allow the not to send a speaker should boards of their suspensions from Several of the stude nts that that there are two levels of Black Panthers to recruit on have no bearing on whether the school is cited as an example.
expressed their opinions of the freedom, the freedom to discuss campus and what criterion he company would be permitted on This side concludes that theforum felt that it has the best and the freedom to function. would use to decide who could campus. Placement B.ureau should bepotential for solving the prob­The University is approaching ant! could not recruit here. He "No justification can be abolished because of the politi­lems of the University because it the problem from the wrong replied that he would allow the found for requiring a company cal stance of the University thatbrings spokesmen for the six perspective because it is limiting Panthers to recruit and added to send a representative to meet they feel "approves the specificcommunities involved with the !freedom to function, ac­that he would allow any "legal" with student groups as a contli-programs" that has manifestedNotre Dame together at the cording to Wilson. organization to recruit' on cam-tion for interviewing on this itself in the Vietnam War anti
same lime. The problem of the pus. campus," this side of the argu-the conditions of poverty and
forum, in the opinions of the The inability of the forum to The committee was divided ment concluded. recism at home.
students is threefold. I) Accord­function was also mentioned by hy philosophy over the proper Another side of the contro-A member on this side indud­ing to Tom Duffy, the Univer­Duffy and in a small group of role of the Placement Bureau, versy over who to allow to re-ed a religious dimension into thesity must define the situation it continued on page 3 hut instead of making a dicision. cruit on campus calls the func-.
is in ant! discover the causes of on the split chose instead to lions of the Placement Bureau cvntmtued vn page 2
the alienation and apathy on campus. 2) The forum has no • power to act, only to discuss. 3) 
Communication gap marks forum meet1ng
The problems of this school 
by Bro. Patrick Carney can't be solved by nine hours of Lack of dialogue was widely that people would not be inhi­the discussion -the Dow-CIA which he alluded in the recentdiscussion per semester. The discussed in Friday's initial bited hy sit-ins and the like. occurrances. Mr. Philip Faccen­(h server interview.
forum must meet more often to meeting of the University Forum Presently persuasion and exam­da, special assistant to the presi­In his reply, Mr. Faccendahe effective. 
but it was demonstrated much ple are not emphasized and the dent was asked why the injunc­cited as a reason for the necessi­Duffy believes that the Uni­mole emphatically by the fact result is an atmosphere of force tion was sought and whether it ty of the injunction the sameversity will not be able to pro­that only 48 people attended the and no trust. will be permanent as well as notion that the demonstrators gress until everyone can agree on open session following the The first question from the what he meant by other possible used to explain why they felt the "situation as it is now". In 
formal meeting. audience dealt more specifically methods which could be used to 
order to define the situation, continued on page 2
Professor Donald Sniegowski with the announced · for the same goals to 
Duffy recommends a sub­of the English Department who --·-....
committee of the forum to 
had previously been elected ~--­
study the Dow..CIA situation in spokesman for the group openeddepth, to sec if all charges were the floor and when there were 
justified. 
no questions from the audience,Another unidentified student Student Body !'resident Phil thinks that the forum has "all 
McKenna, an officalial 
the power" and that its members 
representative to the 
are "crystalized in their opinions organization, made a statement. 
and life styles and will never 
Talking in terms of change." The only way to iniunctions and the like put the "bridge this is to have a power fows in the wrong place accord-transfer or to fight them in the ing to the Student Body Presi­courts." dent. The focus is on the way we Jim Rocap, of the Students do things and why we do them.' Against Racism, thinks that the There is focus on knowledge hut forum members may feel a sense no focus on trust of individuals 
of accomplishment, hut he, like ant! brotherhood, he said. lit: cited this as a cause for the
many others, could not feel any sense of progress. Rocap feels "fear and hatred I hat I find very that the problem is "very prevalent around here" ant! said straight forward, but not that one logically concludes that simple." lie went on to describe you have to sit in front of a door 
the problem as he sees it. "We because that is the way you get talk about the rights of people things done around here. not being interferretl with by lie contends that .if this is a 
standing in front of the door, Christian university, it should 
~­
hut what about the rights of move toward a state where there people that are being interfered arc no rules. In this way he feels Members of the University Forum discussed the "communication gap" and other problems. 
PAGE 2 
7HB O.&SZRIIEil 
Sniegowski elected chairman of Forum in organization meeting 
by Bill Carter At tht' dL)St'd m.·cting of the llniH·rsity Forum last Friday. Prof. Donald Snit'gowski of th<' F nglish D.-part mt'n I was <' kl't<'d h)rum Chairman. The mel'ting was hdd just prior to th<' open FL)fllm m<'<'t ing Friday t'Wning fL)r the purpos<' of dt'ciding on L)rganizaliL)nal plans for lh<' For­um's two propost'd m<'dings during tht' n<';xt s<'m<'slt'r. Prof. Sni<'gowski talkt'd about th<' Forum's organizational details and his rolt' as ~.·hairman in an interYi<'w with the Obsen·er Sun­~.by <'Wning. Sniegowski point<'d out what he be.lit'ved was th<' basic impor­tance of tht' Forum. ''I think the Forum providt's an t'xcellent opportunity for all portions of tht' Uniwrsity to just get to­gt'ther and m<'d each otht'r. Th<' most important function of the Forum will be listening, listening to all the idt'as that are pre­sented at each meeting," Snie­gowski said. In outlining the Forum's or­ganizational set-up as devised at Friday's meeting, Sniegowski said the Forum had created an agenda committee composed of representatives fron11 the six groups that make up the Forum body. The agenda committee will decide on the agenda for each meeting by consulting with other members of the Forum and anyone dse in the Univer­sity who would like to see some item covered in the Forum. Each meeting will also have a coordi­nator. one of the representatives from the Forum, who will be responsible for getting the nex't meeting together and handling any paperwork that becomes necessary such as the distribu-
IiL)n of posit ion papt'rs. Snie-gow­..All tht' members of the ski <'mphasiud the importance Forum thought we should go on of ~.·ommuniL'at ion bt'fort' each with the topics we h\!Vt' been ml'ding as a means of t'liminat­discussing, thl' nature of a uni­ing any lack of darity in the versity. the nature of dissent and opinions that will be expressed. how it fits into the structure of a 
The agenda for each meeting university. I would not "be sur­will bt' ~.·ompletely open. follow­prised if the future discussions ing the suggt'stions of Fr. Hes­continue to center on questions burgh when he proposed the like tht'se," Sniegowski said. formation of the Forum. The Forum will discuss whafever ne<'ds discussion. 


Gap marks meeting 
COli tiiiiiCd .fi'OIII page J 
protest was necessary --"we don't talk to each othet:" 
As the discussion continued. a number of students brougllt up this point of asking various members of the administration why the uniwrsity found it ne­cessary to seek an inj JH'"tion to ban protests. At least three members of the forum explained that the injunction in no way bannea· protests· (which, it was pointet1 out. would be a viola­tion of the constitution) but rather was aimed at forbidding a disruption or an interferrence with the rights of others. 
Graduate Student · President James King complained that it ·was easy to get tied up in parti­culars in this matter. He called for a recognition of the need of freedom in an educational insti­tution but added that it should be tempered with a realizaiton that in a structure there are functions and necessary rules to facilitate actions. 
He said that he did not believe that a university should have one 
group imposing its moral views 

LOOKING FOR A UNIQUE WAY TO SAY YOU KNOW WHAT 1'0 YOU KNOW WHO? 
WHAT BETT_ER WAY THAN TO SAY IT WITH AN OBSERVER VALENTINE? 
For only a dollar you can express your deepest sentiments to your dear one 
Just Right For: 
1. 
Announcing a Valentine's Day Engagement 

2. 
Telling the girl of your dreams that you never had the courage to face about your true and ever lasting love. 

3. 
That special someone to whom you would like to offer the world. 

4. 
The special guy in your life who you would like to thank for everything? 


Fill in your message here 
t12 \\Otd~ l01 ont dollat 

It will appear in Friday ~s OESER VER in our special Valentines Day Edition (in hearts and flowers, of course) 
Yours Lovingly, 
THE OBSERVER 
Mail to Box 11 or stop by the qBSERVER office by Thursday noon. 
P.S. For an extra quarter we will mail friday's OESER VER to your hometown honey (or honies) 
on another and still be what a university in the true sense of that word. 
Phil Webre took the floor and in <In attack which many in attendance took to b.e facecious criticized both sides. as bein~ Communist-inspired. Some of the delegates and spectators held that both his address and what they considered contrived laugh­ter on the part of some in attendance hampered any serious attempt at dialogue. 
As the discussion moved to t}le Placement Bureau, students questioned not only the role of the office, but who was responsi­ble for the injunction. Mr. Fac­cenda pointed out the legal pro­cess of an injunction and held the position that it might not have taken place had the people involved in opposition to the interviews approached the ap­propritate university officials be­fore the fact. • 
According to the presidential 
ass1stan1, an injunction is only 
dropped when the subject is 
resolved because the parties got 
continued on page 6 

~,-~--_,_ ----~--------------­





Propose continuance of the Placement. Office 
continued from page 1 
of the
questioning of the role Placement Bureau. 
This person felt that some of the corporations which interview here are engaged in "non-Chris­tian" activities, and "if a U niver­sity is to call itself Christian, it cannot allow those engaged in non-Christian endeavors to use its facilities to further those ends" 
fhe Joint Committee on the 
Placement Bureau also recom­mended that the university begin "without delay and to the great­est extent possible active recruit­ing on this campus by educa­
tiona! institutions." 
A column in The Observer 
"keyed" to the several com­
panies and government agencies 
that will conduct interviews on 
campus during a given week was 
suggested by the committee. 
This column would provide 
spokesmen from "both sides of 
the employment issue to be 
heard in a legitimate and civiliz­
ed manner." 
Concerning interviews during 
this semester, the committee 
recommended that interested! 
members of this community be 
"allowed and indeed encour­
aged" to man an area in the 
rotunda section of the admini­
stration building and provide 
information on the policies of 
the interviewing company to the 
interviewees and others. 
The committee agreed that 
"few" opportunities existed for 
students to talk with socially 
oriented agencies and recom­
mended that the Director of the 
Placement Bureau "actively 
invite' such organizations to 
recruit on campus. 
"A significant program of 
assistance" in helping students 
land summer jobs is presently 
being conducted by the Bureau 
concluded the committee, and it 
suggested that a consolidation of 
summer employment opportuni­
ties of social service organiza­
tions would "align the Bureau 
much more closely with activi­
ties of growing concern to stu­
dents and faculty." 
At a time when the University 
is exploring the idea of coeduca­
tion, the cOmmittee thought it 
"particularly appropriate" to 
recommend a reciprocal open 
policy of the placement offices 
of Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
The idea of a consolidation of 
the two offices into one was also 
proposed as a questi"on worth 
further exploration. 
Finally, the committee recom­mended that the Placement Bureau prepare a printed borchure summarizing its ser­vices, procedures, and policies for distribution to all members 
of the university including .alumni. 
r.h~;~~w.ilir 1s pwbiiU1~-~~Ydutllig 'l'Wo! 'ttfll~ sW!es*P6)cblpt vacations by students of the Unlvers~·t of Notre Dame and St. 1M~·~ t tege: 'S'ubsc·riPtrons may ~"~ut aU:b fot'''flf' ¥rom •1'4te 0Mt'I!¥J¥.; ·:~: .1. ,f~ptre OARW, 
Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, InCl., 46~56. · ' 1 
-~----~---~-­

Democrats televise own State of the Union 
WASIIINGTON (UPI)-The Democratic Party replied Sun­day to President Nixon's State of the Union address with a televised film intended to show "a not so silent majority" blam­ing the administration for infla­tion, unemployment, urban de­cay, pollution and poverty. 
But the professionally pro­duced one hour film, beamed across the nation free of charge by the three major television networks, represented an obvious departure from past presentations in which portly politicians followed one another to the microphone with long winded speeches. 
This year the party turned to its best looking young legisla­tors, found a supporting cast of angry shoppers and unemployed workers and put then in a variety of settings including a supermarket, an abandoned housing development, a smog covered valley and an outdoor coffee shop. 
Initial Republican reaction came from Rep. Bob Wilson, chairman of the GOP Congres­sional Committee, who said: "The Democrats pinpointed many of the problems facing the country on their TV show­residual problems left over from eight years of Democratic administrations -and they sounded just like a group of disgruntled heirs arguing over their meager inheritance." 
The best known Democratic figures, with the exception of Sen. Edmund S. Muskie, D Maine, were not shown or were relegated to minor roles. The stars were attractive newcomers like Reps. Patsy Mink, D Hawaii, and William Clay, D Mo., or candidates facing tough re-elec­
tion contests, like Sens. Albert 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's stu­dents that were interested enough to stay an extra hour and discuss the problem among themselves. Duffy said that it "appears that we have the power to enforce the rules such as the fifteen minute rule, but not to suspend them in order to avoid Gore, D Tenn., and Ralph Yar­
borough, D Tex.~A typical scene 
went something like this:­
"Good morning," Mrs. Mink 
said to a woman who had just 
paid a food bill of $60.52 in a 
supermarket checkout line. "We 
hear a great deal about inflation 
and about the rising cost of 
prices. As a housewife and per­
son who is responsible for shop­
ping each week, I wonder if you 
could tell us what inflation 
means to you?" 

"Well," the woman answered, "it means that I don't often buy a luxury item like sugar coated cereal which the children love, or ice cream, and that orange juice we have to really ration. And I have to think about these things now and I used to con­sider these just quantity items 
you had ·to buy and keep up with and they're no longer necessity items." 
The Democrats did manage to squeeze in a minute for a tradi­tiona) behind the desk with the 
flag message from 78 year old
Speaker John W. McCormack, Mass., who praised "young Democrats" and "emerging lead­
ers." The film's producers spliced in shots of young people while McCormack spoke. . Sens. Edward M. Kennedy, Mass., and Fred R. Harris, Okla., the outgoing Democratic nation­al chairman, did not ask to be in 
the  hs ow.  Sens.  George  S.  
MeGovern,  S D . .,  and  Harold  
Hug h  Ies, ow a, app deare  b f· rie ly 

in shirtsleeves talking to young 

Protest ;n vestigated 
by Jim Hayes rights and due process." He said 
The Notre Dame chapter of the committee would make "full the American Association of scale proposals in its report." University Professors has, for the He continued, "The commit-last se~eral months, been inves­tee is concerned mainly with the tigating the Dow-CIA demon­kind of recommendations it strations on campus last fall makes." The report will be made which resulted in the suspension public after it is completed. of ten students. When asked to comment on 
When asked by the Observer, the investigation of the Dow-the local head of the AAUP, r'TA <lemonstration by the Professor William V. D'Antonio, AAUP, rr. Walsh, Vice-Presi­
· f 1 d 

head of the Department of dent. for Academic Af :oirs, 13 Sociology and Anthropology, nothmg to say· 
responded that his organization is working on an investigation of 



Nutting students gather to talk
the incident. The AA UP has set up a committee for this purpose. After the investigation is com­On Sunday, February 8, at 2 pleted, he promised a report, the first gathering of the
P.m.' 
complete with recommenda­Notre Dame-St. Mary's students tions, would be forthcoming. for Willis D. Nutting was held in 
Professor D'Antonio stated the St. Mary's Coffee House. that the Committee, "Is con­The get-together, sponsored cerned with the larger implica­by the Nuttl.ng for Prest"dent tions of this demonstration." Headquarters, was for the pur-Specifically, he referred to "the Pose of discussing the question: questions of dissent, protest, what l·s the best way to get the 
issue of the "Chancellor-Presi­dent" restructuring in front of

Forum disappointment 
the N.D. community. Spokesmen for the Nutting with availiable forum members for 
Presl.dent Headquarters and write to those that can not reported that 
Willis D. Nuttt"ng be seen in private. Everyone in had been Contacted on Satur-day the group agreed that regular to appral.se h1"m of the "pre-forum meetings should be held 
petition" developments. Mr. with those who are able to 
Nutting's response was that the attend. Those that can not 
grou~:s .activities wer~ felt to be would receive transcripts or the htghest compliment ever summaries of the meeting 
people in a room. All four are looked into a smog covered considered possible future presi-valley. As they peered down, an dential candid~tes. intense girl in a yellow hair 

Muskie, the party's ecology ribbon complained that "cars are expert, was shown on a hillside affecting/ our hearing and our in Los Angeles with a crowd of hormones and everything like voung people alongside as he that"


Change of locat•·on 
e 
d

0 f lecture requIre 
The following is a statement by Student Union Academic Commissioner Pat MeDon­ough about Fr. Du1mes' lecture on Albert Camus.· 
.on Academic
The Student Unl ·ss1·0 n would like to exp-
Comml 
ess an apology for, and offer ;m
r explanation to the last minute 
change of location for Fr. John Dunnes' lecture in conjunction with the Memorial Conference 
on  Albert  Camus.  Due  to  the  
size  of  the  crowd,  not  totally  
unanticipated,  the  heat  in  the  

Library Auditorium, and the overall danger and discomfort present there, we felt that a change of Io cation was 
necessary. 
Several weeks ago, we speculated that a large crowd would surely attend the lecture 
by the popular Fr. Dunne, and 
. 
efforts were made by Mike Lynce, Conference Chairman 
and Associate Commissioner, and Pat Dowdall, former Commissioner, to secure Washington Hall. It was impossible to obtain it f,t10 the particular evening that Fr. Dunne w.as to speak because of play practice, and since Stepan
Center was in use for Mardi 
Gras, the Library Auditorium, the only remaining large room on campus was utilized. (St. Mary's facilities were ruled out by virtue of the conc6ntration of students on the ND campus) In addition, the Conference could 
not be changed to another date 
by virtue of the availability of 
the guest lecturers. 
As the overcrowding was evident as early as 7:00 pm, Dowdall, hurried to Washington Hall to determine as to whether 
it was empty. It was, and the 
shift was made. 
Edward .Cronin, also of the 
L.b 1
GeneraI Program of 1 era 
d. h · d ( 1
Stu 1es, w o recetve a ong
· h 11 f It b ) 1
Wit a acu y mem ers a et-
f p ·
f h N tt.
ter rom t e u mg or res1­
dent Headquarters. The Ietter, 
· d · h F b
which was repnnte m t e e ­ruary 4th Observer, urged the 
· f F h Th d
"elevation o at er eo ore Hesburgh to the post of Chancel­lor" and the appointment of 
· N · h
Wilhs D. uttmg as t e new 
President. 
· s d • d" · D
urmg un ay s lscusstons the student supporters of Dr. Nutting recognized that the cam­paign had entered the "petition
" th t th personal con-h
P ase : a e f
tact with the other members o the community to raise the key 

issue of restructuring and to gain support for Chancellor Hesburgb , and President Nuttinll was the 
next important phase.
The group also discussed the creation of several sub-groups to deal with: Information/publica­tions, the contacting of past students of Willis Nutting, pos­ters and several campus displays, 
f
donations and distribution o pins and bumper stickers, verbal communications, and the coor­
.
dination of other supportive organizations. 
.
As for specific proJects beyond the petition, th--~group
emphasized the need fo~omakingh
available information on sue 
. ?
questions as: What is educatton.
h
What is a University? and W y a Chancellor-President structure? The group anticipates a "Fund Raising Dinner" in the near future as well as a general spring rallv. 
so 

paid to me by the Notre Dame -r---------------~--------------;
violence. A soft spoken man in that they could stay informed. community." Nutting added the group said that people must Duffy put forth an original idea that he took his candidacy with 

MARTHA'S VINEYARD 
learn to use power and learn to that would improve communi­utmost seriousness, for "I feel it 

Summer 1970 talk with one another. He added cations. He suggested that each will help to raise some very vital 
Student EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES 
that the problem with power is forum member live the role of questions about the Notre Dame that people use it to "put down each other member's group to community questions which 

Hundreds ofJobs! 
other people." obtain a better understanding of haven't reafly been forced upoii 

Detailed descriptions including restaurants, Ideas for improving the one anothers views. us as yet." 
hotels, shops. SEND $2.00 forum ranged from opening the It was also emphasized that 
APPLIED RESEARCH ASSOCIATES
earlier sessions to meeting with All in all, the general opinion Dr. Nutting's candidacy was a 
student-faculty initiated cam­

Dept. 57 
of those who attended supportthe· forum memb~rs individually. 
paign.. Mr. Nutting was not
By opening the earlier sessions SBP Phil McKenna's argument 

P.O. BOX 3903 
aware of the movement until he
to the public, the atmosphere of that the forum would be little . 

New Haven, Conn. 
was asked about it by Professor
doubt would be eliminated, more than another discussion 
06525
according to Dave Loring, a body. There appears to be little sophomore. Those in the small hope that the forum will 

Attention OBSERVER Staff: 
group agreed that the forum accomplish anything, in the should meet more often. Sug­opinions of those interviewed, ge.stions here ranged from once a unless. it meets more often and week to twice a month. Another attracts a greater involvement 

Some Dome pictures did not turn out. The following 
idea was for students to talk from the student body. 

groups will have their pictures retaken Tuesday 


DETROIT CLUB 

afternoon at Stepan Center. 
Si~n-ups & details for Univ. of Detroit 

3:30 All night editors and associate editors 
basketball ~arne toni~ht from 7 to 7:30pm 
in Student Insurance Office, LaFortune 

4:00 Wed. & Thurs. night staffs, sports staff 
& reporters Price $12.00 ALL WELCOME 
Editors wear coats & ties 
PAGE 4 

TilE OBSERfi.IR MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1970 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. DE SAPIO Editor-in-Chief 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Editorial 

The University Forum: A slow start 
The initial meeting of the University Forum displayed the fact that Notre Dame is quite a ways away from being a totally intergrated community. From the tone of the discussions it is obvious that true community will come OJ1ly if all sides are willing to exert much more effort toward bringing it about. 
The Forum got off to a bad start immediately when it was discovered that many of the elected members of the Forum had come to the meeting thinking that it was to be purely organizational. This forced an early close after only 50 minutes of open discussion. The group, however, did elect Professor Donald Sniegowski, of the English Department to the Chairmanship. From his initial remarks it appears that he will make every effort to insure that in the future the Forum will remain in session as long as need be to handle any questions that may arise. 
It took awhile in the initial sessions for all sides to get use to addressing each other. The traditional "communications gap" made itself apparent as members from some of the groups turned to making accusations about the sineerity of the efforts of the others instead of talking about the issue. In one case, a student (not a member of the Forum) embarked on a senseless harangue mocking what he conceived the positions of many of the Alumni, Trustees, and Administrators at Notre Dame. 
Such outbreaks are regrettable since they only serve to further widen the crevice between students and older members of the university. The emotions which motivate such outbursts are understandable in some instances, since the lack of communication in the past has served to heighten antagonisms between different groups. In the future, however, we hope that all sides will take the efforts toward constructive dialogue seriously. Closemindedness in the· form of childish outburts or self-righteous assertions of positions should be left out of the Forum's deliberations. 
The potential for the Forum can be exemplified in a number of exchanges between participants which served to clear up some misconceptions of different positions. Many opponents of the Placement Bureau have suggested that the university shows favoritism in selecting who will be allowed to recruit. As an example, one student stated, the University certainly wouldn't allow the Black Panthers to recruit on campus. 
Father Hesburgh's answer to the questioned was uniequivocal. As far as he was concerned the Black Panthers could recruit on campus. His criteria for letting a firm recruit --the firm must be normal and legitimate. The firm must be engaged in ·normal activity and must not break the laws of the United States. The exchange cleared up the air and there is at least now a basis to discuss the policy. 
Although much work lies ahead for the Forum we believe that it has a great potential. If nothing else, for the first time the leaders from all segments of the community are sitting down at the same time and place and exchanging ideas. There remains a lot that they all have to learn --from each other as well as from other individuals who are not members of the board. 
We hope that members of the Forum take their positions seriously. They have the responsibility, we believe, to help bridge the communications gap not only at their meetings but also by helping to mediate situations that arise where there is disagreement between various segments of the community. The upcoming return of Dow Chemical to the Placement Office is such a case. We hope that members of the Forum will work to see that the events of the day are not a repeat of those that occurred in November. 
The opinions in the editorials,

Joseph Wemhoff, Business Mgr. Photo Editor: Mike Murphy 
news analyses, and columns of THE

Timothy J. Dineen, Ad. Mgr. Sports Editor: Mike Pavlin 
OBSE AVER are solely those of the'

News Editor: Glen Corso Feature Editor: Dave Stauffer 
authors and editors of THE OB·

Asst. News Editor: Don Ruane Night Editor: Dave Lammers 
SERVER and do not necessarily

SMC News Editor: Prue Wear layout Design: Guy DeSapio 
reflect the views of St. Mary's

Associate Editors: Cliff Wintrode, Layout: C.P. Myers, Jan Reimer 
College, the University of Notra

Ann Conway, Jeanne Sweeney Jim Hayes ' 
Dame, their administrations, faculty

Layout Editor: Mary Beth Crimmons Headlines: Rick Smith 
or student bodies. 


Window Watcher 
Editor: 
Peace, Brothers! Let us reason together and put an end to this liberal (SLERT) and conserva­tive (CYO) religious bickering. 
Pax, Pax, Chic 'n Pax! Salva­tion has come! There is already in our midst THE ONE campus group that can unite both sides in meaningful dialogue and eventual unified Christian pro­g r e s s. R i,g h test-Leftist Religiouso's of the world unite under the banner of MIRIAM'S WINOOW WATCHERS. 
In MIRIAM'S WINDOW WATCHERS we can all be ONE! Each NWW member receives quantum meruit as ·part of a fraternal symposium group for rural America expounding the Christian Farming Philosophy of Miriam Baker, noted columnist of the Sioux City Journal Farm Weekly. Miriam is a Christian, exumenist, citizen diplomat, and noble lady. Through her weekly column, "From the Kitchen Window," members see with new insight into the American farming way of life with a Christian perspective. It is an earthy Christianity vfew that can embrace Slerts and Cyos. 
The MWW's can offer legiti­macy to both the Slerts and Cyos. The MWW's are an officially recognized University Club (with moderator Fr. Robt. Griffin). And the MWW's have already been very active on cam­pus offering a Free U. course this past semester: "Miriam's Christian Farming Philosophy." 
Presently, MIRIAM'S WIN­DOW WATCHERS (written up four times in Miriam's columns) has about 25 charter members, 30 associate members, 5 SMC girls in an "F.H." auxilary, and 2 "F.H."ers in Angiers. "But we welcome more MWW's with peacefully uniting open arms," says our membership chairman John Arkoosh (contact at 401 Stanford to join). 
So the MWW Club urges all Slerts and Cyos and others to stop this religious infighting and unify under the MWW Banner. 
As Miriam has said in her May 19, 1969 column about the MWW's: "Those amazing stu­dent's have done it again! Started a riot? Demanded drastic change? Challenged the dean? No, we were just referring to those self-st,yled MWW's (Miriam's Window Watchers) of Notre Dame University... The MWW's have to be 'psychic."' 
Slerts and Cyos get "psyched" with the MWW's! 
sfthe MWW's (sorry, but we just aren't pretentious enough to call ourselves "Executive Staff" or "Chancellor") 
625 Flanner 
211 Stanford 

State of the Union 
Editor: 
The Democrats "State of the Union" program which was on TV Sunday afternoon made things perfectly clear to the people of this nation. The poli­cies which President Nixon has followed so far have drastically hurt the "great silent majority" rather than helping it. Inflation in terms of grocery market spending has continued, jobs are becoming more scarce as un­employment jumped last month and pollution remains without major problems being sponsored to control it. 
The vetoing of the HEW Bill for 1.2 billion because of infla­tion shows where Nixon thinks the priorities of this nation are. This bill is termed "inflationary" but any expenditures for defense are considered necessary. In Nixon's budget this year of 201 billion, each person in the United States would get about $980 each for his many "necessi­ties." Of this $980 per capita, $400 goes for defense spending, $3.50 is alloted to combat crime in the streets and $13 is given to his health,, education and wel­fare. Does this mean anything to you? Don't listen to Nixon's rhetoric and Agnewism. Look at the facts and they show very clearly where Nixon's priorities are. Where are yours? 
Larry Overlan 
1233 Notre Dame 


7N£0~ _________________________________PA_G_E5_
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1970 
A Notre Dame Dunciad .. Concerning a threatening peril 
by Ken Walsh But yet, forestall this all envel'ping haze Which blots out virtues worthy of our praise, Allow a breeze, however slight, hut clear To slice this fog that binds me tight with fear, And grant me one sweet, liberating breath Before these billows stifle me in death. Heart's bells struck twelve, hut echoes did not ring; 'Munks sought their holes and robins did not sing. Our Lady's rays no longer gold did glea_m As they passed through this dense, perverted steam, That cloaked the king, as up Rock's steps he rose And puffed behind green clouds 'neath royal clothes. Thus shaggy Grossness did his stool arise The king's first claim, "Lets-be in your eyes!" Before his feet, in slime, Politeness crawls, But her attempts to 1ise, the green muck stalls. Good Taste alike was llound'ring in the mire, And Common Sense was certain to expire. Good Grooming's hair lay matted on his head, I lis shoulders white with snowflakes he had shed. Sweet Etiquette, her rules for forks and spoons, Lay whimpering, while rahs dined as baboons. From time to time, a virtue sought to stand, But lower sunk into this dread quicksand. Good Gromming rose, a second at the best And slung this slime upon I he king's hare chest. As grooming slid but deeper in the slush, Great waves of laughter from the king did gush. The ooze he deployed with ecstatic streaks Up to his visage and down to his cheeks "My friends, indeed a shame for you to fight, Resign yourselves to your eternal plight. For once and all, I'm sure you'll realize, The students' senses I'll anesthetize. Enough of this, I grant you know your place; Of your influence there'll be not left a trace." !lis highness rose and with a dubious snort, Proclaimed to all that he was holding court. His cry went out on campus all around, His subjects heard and answered to that sound. From Pangburn-Fisher, o'er to Flanner-Grace, Off-campus, too, joined in the motley race. St. Ed's replied by opening its doors And out of them poured gapers by the scores. The Tower's lifts were crammed beyond compare And those in back were in a true nightmare. From the North Quad this swell began to grow And from this tide obscenities did flow, 
As each looked 'round for something coarse to say Their tails wagged, these donkeys loud did bray. The throng now stormed the cherished Southern Quad 
And seemed to all a herd of ass unshod. Those in the lead and spreading the most harm Had long ago forsaken Venus' charm; No longer longer trimmed, or clean, or halfway neat, Allowed their pores vile odors to secrete. They've had four years in which to cultivate Their own disgusting, odious estate. To live for days in one, unwashed, rank shirt, They seek good habits only to pervert. Behind them both in power and in age Were those who've reached the second training stage. Their locks grown longer than their freshman year, Their parents' rules, they claim they cease to fear. They honor Bacchus and his fruits of glee And delight to tell of a three day spree. Their better-half will be a Circle-wench, 
And from their clothes comes forth a certain stench That not yet ripe, in time will be matured, Will form a hide like leather that's been cured. This coat repels advice, unpleasant stuff, Of which these kids feel they receive eno-ugh. 
And bringing up the rear of this vast crowd Are those of empty minds but voices loud, Who, now away, from parents, on their own, Like buzzing gnats and flies do senseless drone. A separate path they did not choose to blaze, But chose to join the crowd's hot, senseless craze. "So this is it! Remember what we've heard! Come on, let's go, and join the rumbling herd." The hurd pressed on, its ranks most surely were So ju.r.!:-!Ptl, ~uddled, the whole did seem a blur; But onward still to Grossness' standard* throne They stumbled on, o'er friends who'd fallen prone Too bad for them it seemed they'd surely drown The whole South Quad was mud instead of groun'. 
Before the king the mob came to a halt And gave a sign intended to exalt But nearly caused His Majesty to swoon, When given such a vast, collective moon "Stand up, turn 'round, and face your royal king! I've never heard so many so well sing. My friends, you know, you've touched this hard, 
cold, heart With such a greeting, such a fine old art. 
But now 'tis time for me to scan each case, Determining the one who is most base." A roar rose up as each strove to be first, To prove himself most worthy, yet the worst. To take whate'er the king would soon bestow On him who did th·e most in grossness grow. 
Through fog and haze to all appeared the shape Of the one well-known as the Fieldhouse Gape. Who shines at most six times in one full year, But does so well that few can call him peer. On Friday night as Howie leads the band The Gaper's on the sixth of his best brand. All others should excuse his slightest fault Because he's had a bit too much of malt. To chase the band as once in younger days, He foregoes that, and in the courtyard stays To stagger in, held up by loyal friends, Who just like him, enjoy these weekly trends. Along with Bud clenched tightly in his fist, All that he sees is covered in a mist. He does not care as up his spirits rise, Where fore, or aft, the mist lies to his eyes. His football shirt in loyal blue and gold Clads him in right and makes him act more bold. He stands around and surveys all the field ­And wonders 'bout the good time it will yield. The band's true guards form a protective wall; Our Fieldhouse Flame burns bright for one and aiL He jumps and shouts, his features will contort, He looks for friends with whom he can cavort. To those around whom he might bump and shove He gives the sign of peace, here drunken love. His Fairies Rings are formed from stems unknown And in the end each drunken link is prone; He's not done yet, there's still more fun to have, To frolic here :ust like a wild calf Has been his dream this long, dry, hectic week, As he now seeks a well-formed cheek to tweak; The prey he sought has vanished from his sight, He turns instead to goals of lofty height. The pyramids of bodies quickly grow, But not as strong as those of the Pharoah; As soon as up, they totter to the dust To rise again, as bricks relieve their lust. Our man awaits, his wish to be alone Atop the summit, and a face well-known; The time seems right to venture on this quest Which now to him looms as Mount Everest. He struggles up but all the helping hands Cannot save him as in the mud he lands. He tries no more, the rally's o'er and doric, With sweat and mud besmeared, he's had his' fun. His case put forth, he left without a word, But stepping down, his hand shot forth a bird. The king was pleased and liked this young man's show But said, "Move on, for there's much more to go." fhe smog rolled in, the stage a moment blank, 
It cleared, two groups and one stood on the plank. Though not a team, together they appear During the fall, about six time a year; An audience is what they strongly crave And frigid days are often forced to brave. The one stepped forth, his shirt started to doff, The question was, "What will next take off?" This stalwart figure's been around four years, And his last show brought many thousand tears To eyes of those the Stripper'd entertained In spite of snow, regardless how it rained. The rhythm used was in a Celtic tune Although it always stopped a bit too soon, The crowd would stand and roar with sheer delight And hope he'd bump and grind into the night. His glasses first and then his sweater too, And then a shirt, al And then a shirt, though he was turning blue; Off came his belt, his fans could hardly wait The music stopped. They knew is The music stopped. They knew it was too late. He turned about and bowed to all his fans, Who'd risen up, were screaming in the stands, They loved his act, for him to bare his chest But wished that once he'd fe But wished that once he'd follow through with zest. Self-exposition done, his clothes he sought returned, Sat down and smiled, though not a penny earned; He knew two eyes above, his act ignored, But really* did not care, the crowd had roared. The Stripper bowed and bounced back in his spot, A group stepped up, a large unruly lot Who did not say a word, whose bold design Was running 'bout the field with some cute sign. They're forced to use their wits in each display, A new foe enters on each Saturday. These artists, though small obstacles can't stop, Of dung they're sure to bring a bumper crop On linen white or cardboard they'll inscribe Some cutting words, the visitors to jibe. Some deem instead to hand signs from their hall With purpoie one, and that Good Taste appalL These witty bosy These witty boys will pull or stretch a rhyme And each will think his work a paradigm Of shaded sense a humble masterpiece, Encouraged in this trade he'll never cease. They seck for hours a phrase which they can use, Old magazines they intensely peruse And when they hit upon the phrase they sought 

They give to it the size of a dreadnought. 
In figures bright, embarassingly bold The words always in meaning are twofold. They tell of Trojans, not the loyal band Who've come from Southern California's sand; But those of a m!Jch weaker pliant breed When their friends need they come to intercede. Some members though of this artistic crew Do not believe in giving some bright clue, Instead they place where all can surely see Some pointetl piece of pure pornography Though in the end their canvasses are fired, To reach new peaks these craftsmen are inspired. Back in their ranks is one who's more obscene, 
But he confines his art to a latrine; A private yet a public studio Where who's perverted none will ever know. Afraid, before, his accolades to claim, Accepts them now with praise instead of shame. 
His scenes are bare of extra, needless stun, Especially his models in the buff. Along with views of coupled ecstasy 
Come portion~ of his high-brow poetry; His works are drawn with such dramatic Flair, We know he's been inspired by his chair. The king did laud the efforts of this group And hailed the depths to which-they'd stoop To bring his kingdom such artistk skill, At the same time creating artful swilL As they sjepped down, another took their place, Their fierceness made them quite another race, Whose ancestors came from an ice-locked port, But these descendants cam~ from Dillon Court; 
Their beards were long, thetr unkempt manes were great Before them all this savage pirate stood, All hail, Odin, Offender of the Good. He's smartly clad in Viking sailor's garb Atop his head a helmet with twin barb,
And shaggy brows masked eyes agleam with hate. A fearful hush crept on the swarming stage, For none did dare provoke a Viking rage. A rhythmic chant was heard at once to start In om'nous tones that clutched each trembling heart; Two tones, one word, in time their arms did rise And stronger and more thrilling rose their cries. 
At once they ceased and did their ranks divide, 
Their chief strode through as Moses did the Tide: Beneath his hat and down his back it twirls, A golden braid formed from his golden curls; A bearskin vest adorns his naked chest, 
His coat of arms, a house with half moon crest,. His pants are soiled with stains of prev'ous chores, Leading his troops to victories in scores; He leads his crew at spectacles of sport In doing wondrous deeds of var'ous sort. He stands before his men and leads their pleas Like a loyal captain in storm-tossed seas. His top assignment comes at the respite 
Of the two armies in their land-locked figh1; When they retire, a moment's rest to take, His men flock down their offerings to make To Thor, most high, to victory insure, Is worth the pain they know they will endure. From different points they, at each other, run To meet gut-on, mid-air, and then re-run. This practice strange 'til all are on the ground, But rise again to armies' trumpets' sounds; He leads them back aboard their ship of fools And for a bit, each temper slightly cools. But not for long, they've soon regained their force, And will if forced, cheer from another source. King Grossness stood and looked about him well, The pride he felt caused him to greatly swell; His subjects, there, o'er thousands did he reign, The joy he knew was too much to contain; 
He sat again, his features much relieved, Though Atmosphere was quite greatly bereaved. 
"You've all doric well, achievements each has great, In aiding me, establishing my state. To deem just one as hero most renown Into this mire I'd sooner fling my crown. So each of you will join my royal court, And be my most distinguished, high escort." This pleased them-all, their new found destiny 
As members of the court and royalty. 
Along with this there came a royal sound That comes when too much ale has been downed; A roar it spread and ev'ry window shook, 'Round corners sped, in ev'ry niche and nook; The waves rolled high in a once peaceful bay, And even mighty oaks had cause to sway. 
·o'Shag's bronze doors forever now stood closed, Concealing now those figures who had posed. Likewise it was around the campus green, A thing of virtue nowhere to be seen. 
The fog that held a bit one time before Was thicker now and threat'ning even more; No earthly pow'r could stop this sluggish cloud That soon would all clean decency enshroud; 
At once it closed, enclosing all in slime Today, Tomorrow, all eternal Time. 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1970
Ben -Gurion_: Nasser must go before peace 
SEDE BOKER, Israel (UPI)­ble and that Israel should never Arab and Israeli arms in balance? green bungalow. The decorations The only other foreign politi­President Gamal Abdel Nasser of surrender the Golan Heights it "Jets are the decisive factor," on the walls were as simple as cian represented on the wall is 
took from Syria nor East Jeru­Ben-Gurion said. "The Six Day the lifestyle of the Polish Jew Mayor Richard J. Daley of Chi­
Egypt must go if there is to be 
salem it took from Jordan in the War was won in the first half of who came steerage to Palestine cago. A Chicago City Council
peace in the Middle East, David 
1967 Six Day War. the first day. At noon I knew 63 years ago in hopes of helping resolution, signed by Daley and
Ben-Gurion said yesterday. 
"Not only will he have to go, Ben-Gurion, asked if he the war was won. Their (Arab) found Israel. There are photo­hailing Ben-Gution's 80th birth­thought Moscow would send aircraft were destroyed." graphs of his children and grand­day, hangs on a nail. Ben-Gurion
he may not be able to stay," said Israel's first prime minister. "His troops to aid its Arab allies, said, Ben-Gurion, who retired from children, a painting of his late · wore an Israeli army private's "I ·don't believe they would send office in 1963, sat on an un­wife and a copy of Abraham uniform without insignia -"I've
position is becoming more and 
them now because they would cushioned wooden chair in the Lincoln's Emancipation Procla­seen three wars and the uniform 
more critical." The conditions for ending the be afraid of America. low-ceilinged living room of the mation. is comfortable." "But they will send it more
Arab-Israeli conflict formed one part of a UPI interview with 
and more arms and better arms 
and they will send in more of
• Ben-Gurion in his bungalow' in 
Communication gap in Forum
their officers to train the The 83-year-old leader said Arabs," he said. "This may be continued from page 2 At this point in the proceed­philosophical underpinings he American supplies of jet aircraft very dangerous." to~ther. He reported that four ings, the forum was asked for a found there. are decisive in Israeli defense, Then what of President students had come to his office show of hands on the question No large multimillion dollar that a Soviet drive for domina­Nixon's current month-long con­and he asked them to agree not of ham many members had read corporation exists, he said, tion of the Mediterranean Sea is sideration of sending Israel ad­.to block the doorway in the the defense of the students in­which does not have some ties the kernel of Middle East trou-ditional F4 Phantom jets to keep future. They in turn asked for a volved in its entirety. All but with things like the Viet Nam 
this Negev Desert kibbutz. 
FREE UNIVERSITY 

Students and Faculty: 
Do you have an interest, talent, or hobby that you would like to share with others? The Free University of Notre Dame -St. Mary's is presently compiling its selection of courses for the spring semester. If interested in teaching a course, please contact either: 
Rick Libowitz  Shawn Foley  
c/o Student Government  Box 179  
St. Mary's  

"The happy I am 
promise that Dow would not two had read it at least once. 
war. He said the University can­return. It is at this impass that Returning to the Placement not sit in judgement of 500 matters now stand. Bureau, Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, 

intervi~ws. 

Dean Lawless of the Law ·University· President, said that it Stepan added that the univer­School gave an account of his was a traditional means of help­sity need freedom and quotedwork and study of the situation ing students get the jobs they Holmes as saying "freedom is for at Columbia which set some­wanted and that he would stop the idea you hate." In calling for thing of a precedent for a univer­it that night if he thought that the acceptance of others points
sity seeking an injunction. they did not want to have it. He of view, he stressed that force is 
He said the reason there was suggested various bodies that a tricky thing which he does not 
in the hopes of preserving Com­should discuss the matter and like to see used. He sues it as 
munity in the light of four pointed out that if conditions on destructive to the university.
serious acts-building takeover, it were too restrivtive, it would Undergraduate Bill Mitchell 
refling and publication of stu­be simpler not to have it. said that Stepan had hit on the dents personal files, property Edmund Stephan, Chairman curx of the problem. He accuss­misappropriated, and planned of the Board of trustees, added 
ed Fr. Hesburgh of sitting in the arson. The court order shifts the that he was under the impression 
judgement that the chairman confrontation to the civil courts that the students wanted the 
said was impossible. To demon­taking it out of the hands of the Placement Bureau. After men­
strate his point, the student university. community thus tioning that he had read the 
quoted Fr. Hesburgh as sayingpermitting students to return to defense twice, he stated that he 
that any legitimate organization 
classes safely. saw difficulties with certain could recruit on campus but that 
the president decided who was legitimate. He maintained that if the Black Panthers wished to recruit, they would not be allow­ed. 
Fr. Hesburgh immediately dis­
agreed. He said that the Panthers were ·an organization which is not breaking any law and would

when I'm straigbt is more beautiful 
be allowed to recruit on the campus if they so desired. As an example of an organization

than the happy I seemed to be when which would not be allowed to recruit, the president offered the Mafia since they do break the law.
I was stoned!' 
In the ensuing exchange, when Fr. Hesburgh was asked if this was purely a secular judge­ment, he held that it had to be 

this way because on a questiOn of morals, people will disagree in their judgements depending on their beliefs. He added that "if you think a law is immoral, you would disobey it, but then you must be prepared to take the consequences." 
Tim MacCarry then objected The girl in the picture is named Chris. For over a year, she was on amphetamines, powerful drugs known 
to the whole process by quoting Ghandi as saying "dialogue with 
as "speed." This is how she describes it: 

a radical diffenence in power is" "I think 'speed' is a lot worse than heroin. Kids have got to 
not dialogue at all." Anyone know about it, because they can fall so easily into taking it 
who has faith in the dialogue as it was expressed in the meeting,
through the diet pill hassle, or needing something to help them 
he added, ·"frankly is a fool." 
study. You know, that's crazy. Because the combination of am­
He went on to agree with phetamines and no sleep just blows your memory completely. 
Stepan's point about the big companies and carried it even
There are whole sections of my life which I just can't remember. 
farther to criticize the hotdings
It got to be just 'do a little more, do a little more,' until that was 
of various members of the Board all there was. And the 'crashing' ... ~ometimes the 'crashing' is 
of Trustees. When Stepan asked him what he would do to resolve
just really awful! 

this, MacCarry's answer was to 
"For me to stop taking it, I had to feel that people were car­
study the problems in society in ing. And they were. I was really lucky. I was very close to two 
a objective way. The final speaker, Luther G.
people that were really into amphetamines very deeply, and I 
Bellinger, representing the 

loved them a lot. But as far as they were concerned, the only 
alumni, told a few stories to thing that they had was the 'meth,' and that was their life. And 
make a point that he felt that people involved at all the various 
they're both dead now." 

levels of the university were sin­
"Dexies," "beMnies," "meth" are all called "speed" these 
cerely interested in the students days. And people who know "speed" know "speed" kills! 
for whom it exists. He called for unity citing the forum as a
For more facts about drugs, write for free booklets to: 
vehicle to be used in solving the
National Institute of Mental Health, Box I080, Washington, 
problems of the students and the D.C. 20013 
problems of the university. 

---~ -~ ... ~ .. ·-~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~-~~~~~-~~-~~~~-------­
Liberal Republicans undecided in Carswell case 
Court nomination of Judge Cle­waiting to see if any new infor­
~-Jarrold Carswell to the high

WASHINGTON (UI'I)-Mosl of mation comes up before the But the survey also indicates
ment F. Haynsworth Jr. are court.
the liberal moderate Republicans nomination reaches the Senate that four of the 17 dissidents
holding back any commitment They are, for the most part,
who help~:d scuttle the Supreme floor. including Sen. Republican Lead~ 
on the appointment of G. keeping their options open-
On the Haynsworth nomina-er Hugh Scott, and Assistant tion, 17 Republicans and their Senate GOP Leader Robert P. 
votes were a decisive factor in Griffin, plan to vote for Cars-
Clark hits Carswell nomination 
WA8111 NGTON (UPI) Former Attorney General Ramsey Clark said yesterday that President Nixon's nomination of Federal Judge G. Harrold Carswell to the Supreme Court "is a sad one for this country." 
Clark, asserting that black 1\ rnericans still look to the high court more than to any other institution for aid in their fight against racial discrimination, ac­cused the President l'>f "tinkering with the confidence of a major part of our people" by naming Carswell. 
"These are difficult times for our country and the problem of race is a major part of the underlying difficulties," Clark said in the UPI Washington Win-
Heavy fighting marks end of Tetnewyear 
SAIGON (UPI)-American and South Vietnamese forces, trying to blunt a North Vietnamese drive into the Mekong Delta, yesterday reported killing 88 Hanoi regulars in heavy fighting near the Cambodian border. A VietCong bomb wrecked part of Saigon's press center but no one was hurt. 
With the Tel lunar new year holiday drawing to a close, South Vietnamese irregulars Jed by U.S. Green Berets and supported by American air strikes fought running battles with North Vietnamese infantry­men across the Plain of Reds. The Delta ,ilrea is 60 miles west of Saigon and only six miles from the Cambodian frontier. 
Communiques said the allies killed 32 North Vietnamese sol­diers in the area Saturday and 56 more yesterday. Allied losses were placed at 13 killed and nine 
1
wounded. 
Military sources said a prison­er taken in the Plain of Reeds fighting yesterday told interroga­tors that Communist units were moving from Cambodian bases into South Vietnam in an atlem p t to launch attacks against installations around the delta city of My Tho, 34 miles southwest of Saigon. 
My Tho is the headquarters of the South Vietnamese 7th Infan­try Division, largest allied unit in the upper portion of the delta rice bowl. 
The bomb explosion in Sai­gon, at 6:35 p.m. last night blew out windows in the two story National Press Center in the downtown section and touched off a fire in the empty building. Shreds of glass littered streets filled with Tet celebrants but no casualties were reported. 
Authorities said the explosion was caused by a 20 pound plas­tic bomb with a 15 minute fuse which had been placed on the roof of the building at Tu Do and Lei Loi streets directly opposite the Vietnamese Nation­al Assembly and Caravaelle and Continental hotels. 
The bomb exploded about two hours after the present cen­ter was vacated by members of the Saigon press corps following 
·the regular daily milita~y brief­ing. 
----------------------------------------------------Court______________________~C=ar~s~w~e~ll~---~~--------~ 
1 

•
RCA 

On Campus Interviews 
for Computer Sales and Systems 
February 25 & 26 
BS, BA and MBA candidates: interview RCA, on campus, for our Computer Sales and Systems Program. The Program consists of ten weeks of formal training at Cherry Hill, New Jersey that will provide you with a broad knowledge of the field of your choice -Sales or Systems -followed by an assignment at one of our field sales offices located throughout the United States. You will be working directly with the complete Spectra 70 family of computers which are highlighted by large-scale communications and time-sharing applications. 
See your placement officer to arrange an interview. Or write to RCA College Relations, Dept. CSS, Building 205-1, Camden, N.J. 08101. We are an equal opportunity employer. 
ROll 

'. 
dow interview: 

By choosing Carswell, he ad­ded, "you give the appearance of someone who has been unwilling or reluctant to fulfill the rights of people who have waited many generations to have their rights fulfilled and are still waiting. 
"So I think the nomination is a sad one for this country," said the 45 year old Washington New York attorney. Carswell has re­pudiated a speech made 22 years ago during a Georgia election campaign when he advocated white supremacy. He also has denied charges he was hostile to government civil rights lawyers and biased against their cases. 
Asked if he had any memory, favorable or unfavorable of Carswell during_ the time h~ ~as attorney general, Clark said: "No, I have no impression at all. That means something, too, be­cause I had a clear impression of those ju:lges who we thought were aprticularly effective in ful­filling the rights of American citizens. And there were a good many in the South." 
Judge Frank Johnson of Ala­bama and Judge Griffin B. Bell of Atalnta, who sits on the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals, were both "great' judges," Clark said. 
He contended there were at least as many outstanding jurists from the South "proportionate­ly as any other part of the country" if Nixon wanted a Southern judge. 

the 55 to 45 rejection of the 
appointment. Of this group, 
onlY Sen. Charles .E. Goodell, K N.Y., has come out with a for­mal announcement of opposi­tion. 
Goodell, charging that Cars-well had failed to "heed and promote" the civil rights revolu­lion, is one of three senators who have declared their inten­tions. The others are Demo-crats-Walter F. Mondale of Minnesota and William Proxmire of Wisconsin. 
On the basis of an informal survey among the I 7 GOP sena­tors who opposed Hayneworth, it appears that Sen. Jacob K. Javits of New York,, will vote against confirmation of Nixon's latest selection for the Supreme well. Taking a similar stance are Sens. John Sherman Cooper, Ky., and Richard S. Schweiker Pa. ' 
The commitments of Cooper and Griffin, at least, are not endlessly binding, however. Cooper's support is firm only if nothing unexpected should sur­face before the vote and Griffin gives a similar indication. 
Griffin, who at first backed 
Haynsworth and then changed 
his mind, said, as a member of 
the Senate Judiciary Committee: 
"If it came to a vote today, I 
would vote to report him out." 
In addition to Scott, Griffin, Schweiker, and Cooper, Sens. William B. Saxbe, R Ohio, and John J. Williams, R Del., appear to be leaning toward support of 
PAGE 8 7718 OBSERIIER. MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9,1970
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------~~~ 
•

Irish w1n•• every man does his job 
by Jack Schaefer tainly showed that it has the another of his stellar perform­points and garner four rebounds. gives II 0%. He holds the team 
Observer Sports Writer capability of being a great team. ances. Jones had seventeen The Milkman Hinga pulled off together and he's clearly the Sid Catlett, amid cheers of "Sid, points, fifteen rebounds and one of the game's big plays as he leader. He's an unselfish ball­
If Saturday's 96-95 double overtime win by Notre Dame Sid", turned in what had to be came up with his usual number stole the ball and whipped it player and he shows what kind 
over Marquette proves anything one of the finest games of his of clutch plays underneath. down court to Carr for two of man he is by intervening 
career. He rebounded and block­Jones is one of the real fine ball points as the halftime buzzer whenever trouble may be brew­it is that both teams deserve a ed shots in an intimidating players around today, but for sounded. This provided a six­ing on the court. Saturday he
berth in the NCAA tournament. Marquette is a strong, excep­fashion. Sid also hit on six of some reason his contributions point lead and some important kicked a ball away, yet came 
tionally well coached basketball eleven of his shots from the seem to be overlooked. momentum. right back to score nine points 
field. Doug Substit4te guard Mike and win the game. In a word he
team. The Irish played their Sophomore Gem­Jackie Mehan had nine assists 
mell, although seeing limited O'Connell turned in a near per­has class. 
hearts out, never gave up and and successfully movea the ball 
came away with a deserved vic­action in the second half, ex­against the Marquette press. fect effort. He did exactly what Marquette's Dean Meminger tory. hibited extraordinary poise he had to do and his timing in
Tom Sinnot, who Marquette took control of the game in the
while pouring in eleven first half doing it was superb. Mike stood
The mark of a great team is coach AI McGuire cited as one second half as few players can.
points. out in the second oveitime as he 
~-that everyone does his job and of the destroyin g factors, came Once he starts to back in you
Collis Jones turned in penetrated the Marquette de­
does it well. Notre Dame cer-off the bench to score eight big might well
fense, attracted a crowd, then as forget it. Coach 
McGuire may rant and rHge butflipped to a teammate for the he does it with a purpose and iseasy basket. Mike also hit two
NOTRE DAME FG FT Rbds Pts MARQUETTE FG FT Rbds Pts highly successful. Surprisingly
baskets in the overtime as well as enough McGuire thought theCollis Jones 7-ll 3-4 15 17 Joe Thomas 7-13 l-2 8 15 being instrumental in the steal 
Doug Gemmell officials did an admirable job
5-7 l-1 4 II Gary Brell 5-8 2-2 10 12 which enabled the Irish to take ·despite the amazing "five
Sid Catlett 6-ll 2-8 12 14 Ric Cobb 7-12 2-3 10 16 the game into a second overtime, 
Jackie Meehan l-4 seconds" call against Meminger
0-l I 2 Jeff Sewell 6-20 0-l 3 12 Marquette had the ball and a 
which helped propel the game
Austin Carr 14-25 10-15 8 38 Dean Meminger 9-22 9-15 4 27 two point lead. O'Connell's steal into overtime.
Mike O'Connell 2-3 2-3 0 6 Hugh McMahon 4-4 0-0 3 8 resulted in a basket and sent up Tom Sinnott 4-8 0-1 4 8 Jack Burke l-6 3-3 I 5 a roar that brought people back 
Now it's all up to the N.D. 

Jim Hinga 0-0 0-0 l 0 Bob Black 0-0 0-0 0 0 from the parking lot. 
team to continue to mold fine 
TOTALS 39-69 18-33 51 96 TOTALS 39-85 17-26 49 95 If you think I've left someone individual efforts into good team 
56.5% 54.5% out don't worry about it, there's
45.8% 65.4% play, and of course to cut down 
just so much you can say about on the turnovers. Any helpAustin Carr. Sure, he had 38 coach Dee can give would be points, shot 14 of 25 from the greatly appreciated I'm sure.
·orake cops ND invitational 
field and hit on some very cru­
There should be no more Michi­cial one and one's, but "anyone" State's. team a
gan This w~s The Drake University the Irish margins of defeat were settle for a pair of ties, versus can do that. Austin's greatness great one Saturday and now it 
wrestlers, winning all three of 20-17 to John Carroll, 25-11 at Cincinnati and John Carroll, lies mainly in his attitude. It's a just remains for it to continue to their matches, repeated as the hands of Drake, and 20-13 while tallying a 2-1 decision win cliche I know, but Carr truly really play ball. champions of the Notre Dame against Cincinnati. against Drake. Invitational Triple Dual Tourna­Jim Hansen was Notre Dame's 
9 .. 0 fencers win lour
ment held Saturday at the ACC. top individual performer in the In addition to Hansen, two John Carroll College posted a tournament, registering three other Irish grapplers scored pins, 2-l mark to gain the runner-up victories, two of them by virtue Captain Keith Giron (126) Ilinois' Circle Campus was Paolo and a foil win by John spot wh i le Cincinnati finished of pins. Hansen, wrestling in the nailed his Drake opponent to the the scene Saturday of a four Lyons. The top performers for in third with a 1-2 slate. The 158 pound class, won a 9-8 mat while freshman Bob Habig match sweep by the Irish fen-the Irish over the weekend were Notre Dame matmen were win­decision on riding time against ( ISO) notched a pin against John cers. Coach DiCicco's swords-Glen Kalin (8-0) and Mike less in three matches, and finish­Drake and pinned his opponents Carroll. Tom Ciaccio, Notre men came from behind to beat Cornwall (6-0) in foil, Mike ed last, although several Irish from Cincin11ati and John Car­Dame's 118-pounder, also met Wisconsin Parkside 15-12 and Feney (7-0) in sabre and John grapplers turned in fine indivi­roll. . with some success, winning a routed Illinois Circle 20-7, Mil-Albright and Rich Deladrier who dual performances. The four . Phil Gustafson, the Irish forfeit match again.st John Car-waukee Tech 24-3, and Indiana were both (6-2) in epee. teams present wrestled one heavyweight, was also unbeaten roll and registering a decision U. 18-9 to bring the season re-another as if in a dual meet and in the day's action, but had to victory versus Cincinnati. cord tp 9-0. Next Saturday the fencers will 
fhe Notre Dame wrestlers, In the Wisconsin match the travel to the Wayne State Cam­now 2-5 in dual meets will team found themselves down pus in Detroit to meet Wayne travel to Western Michig;n for 10-7 but pulled to a tie at Sta_te, Detroit U., and Chicago their next match, this Wed-12-12 and clinched the match U.,m what may be their toughest nesday. , with an epee win by Hugh De-tests of the season. 
Wittliffsplurgekeysdouble rout 
Taking an opening faceoff some superb defensive play by ND 10-8, St. Mary's 1-5 pass from Joe Bonk, freshman the Redmen in the early going. The warm confines of the Gary Little netted the third Irish Their offensive play, however, 
ACC ice rink was no haven for goal with only seven seconds seemed nonexistent for the 
the highly-touted St. Mary's elapsed in the third period. The entire sixty minutes. Redmen on Friday night as the fans were barely settled back On Saturday night, the Irish Irish rolled up a 10-1 rout of the down when the same line clicked fell behind early as slip-shot Minnesotans with an eight-goal for a second score at : 1 7 of the passing in the defensive zone third period barrage. frame as Paul Regan banged enabled St. Mary's to pick up 
Following the opening face­home his 21st goal of the season two easy goals. But Witliff was off, the Irish carried the play on assists by Little and Bonk. as hot as he was the previous right to the St. Mary's zone. with The ol' magic of the first two night and he scored twice to tie 
most of the game finding the periods had really gone out of the game. Goals by Bruce Ras­Redmen defense scrambling to Schuett's game as Captain Phil cob and John Noble gave the thwart the rushes of the Blue Wittliff tallied unassisted at Irish a 4-2 first period lead. 
and Gold. The statistics told the 1:42. Seventeen seconds later 
Wittliff wasted no time get­

story, as the Irish unleashed a sophomore Kevin Hoene turned ting his second hat-trick in athree period total of II 0 shots the same trick, upping the totals row, banging in a goal at 0:14.
(59 on goal) to a mere 30 by the to 6-0 for Notre Dame. With He added fourth
outclassed Red men. Of these, St. four goals in two minutes the his goal and 
25th of the year at 7:08 as NDMary's only tested Irish goalie Irish had deflated a weary St. 
left the ice up 7-3. The RedmenTomasoni for 21 shots, 12 of Mary's team; it was easy going applied the pressure throughoutwhich came in a wild third from there on in. 
the final .stanza and narrowedperiod that featured nine scoring Wittliff picked up a hat-trick the gap to 8-5. One of their goals plays by the two teams. and Regan kept his lead in the was winger Jim Pohl's third ofOnly outstanding goaltending goals-scored department with his the night. Irish goalie Chris Cath­by sophmore Mike Schuett and 22nd late in the period. Fresh­cart made 25 saves and playedsuperb defensive play by junior man Drew Black picked up his excellently, considering that twoBill Marceau enabled the Red­first of the season to finish the St. Mary's scores came throughmen to leave the ice after the Irish scoring spree at 17:53. In lapses by his teammates, onefirst twenty minutes deadlocked all the third period merely repre­came with the Irish short­in a 0-0 tie (despite an 18-shot sented a culminaUon of the handed, and another came off aNotre Dame barrage). entire flow of the game. The 2-1 break. N D stands 16-8 forSchuett's., play held up for final totals could have easily the season.
most of the second period, but a been 20-l had it not been for power play goal by Irish soph Jim Cordes and a John Roselli tip-in of a BiH Green slapshot gav~t the Irish a 2-0 edge after two periods of play. But the slim margin was quickly widened in the third stanza. 




