r--------------------------------------------------------------------------­
NIXON -NEW PEACE PLAN 
WASHINGTON (UPI) of the governments of South unexp'ected!y into the White presumably the Soviet Union, on South Vietnam by next June 30. President Nixon, in high spirits Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia, House press room late ·in the the new diplomatic approach U.S. Ambassador David K. E. 
morning. Nixon said. ' 
after his grueling European tour and would be submitted to the Bruce, who flew from Paris to announced yesterday he will Paris talks on Thursday. "It will be the most The President himself will Ireland to report to Nixon on 
address the nation at 9 p.m. comprehensive statement ever discuss his speech with the Sunday, termed the Communist EDT today and make a major There was widespread made on his long and difficult proposals "old wine in new
cabinet at 5 p.m. today, 
new proposal for ending the speculation, which Nixon made war and will cover all the major followed an hour later by a bottles" at the time b:ut said no attempt yesterday to issues involved in the Southeust they would be studied carefully.
Vietnam War. 
briefing for Republican and
discourage, that the United Asia area," he said, speaking Democratic congressional Nixon said his announcementHis r(ldio and television States might propose a cease fire without notes. 
leaders. Dr. Henry A. Kissinger today was "prepared only after
broadcast from the White House, throughout Southeast Asia and a "We do not consider this to his national security affair~ it was thoroughly considered"timed less than a month before withdrawal of all foreign troops be a propaganda gimmick," he adviser, will see newsmen twice. and covered all issues involved in the Nov. 3 congressional from Vietnam. He refused all added. "We are not just saying it The President stressed th~t the Paris talks. He ref~sed toelections, follows a Q,ersonal comment. for the record." 
the new U.S. peace initiative was comment further saying onlyreport from the U.S. neg<'tl:iating The President, who returned Before Today's speech, that he expected speculation
being developed long before the would continue, and returned to
team in Paris on the latest to Washington Monday night Secretary of State William P. 
Communist plan for a from his I 2,000 mile trip to five Rogers will brief interested National Liberation Front offered Sept. 17 to halt attacks 
his office without taking any
settlement. Nixon said the new nations, including Communist governments, including close questions from newsmen.
U.S. initiative had the approval Yugoslavia, bounced U.S. allies in Southeast Asia and on American troops if they leave 
Wednesday, October 7, 1970 
Krashna's new constitution gets negative reaction 
by Fred Schaefer plane.'' Senate with the President's Fred (;iuffrida. another Stay Council. He says that "it is not 
"I don't think the proposed Senator says that the proposed necessarily good that the work 

constitution is any better than 
constitution ''Ignores the prob­of the Senate is being done by 
our present one. it's just the fewer people. Hall
lem of a weak Senate. I agree The Presi 
same thing with fewer people," 
that the Senate i~ weak and dents don't have time. 
said Stay Senator Russ Stone 
ineffectual, but the problem i~ 
commenting on the Krashna "I see nothing wrong with the
being ignored in placing power
Administration's proposed Stu­Senate. We have to get people
in the hands of the executive
dent (iovernment Constitution. interested in it. People have to
branch. There is no legislative
"It's not as good as it could be willing to put out for Student 
power in the whole thing, which
be. It has many of the flaws of Government. They can't expect
is a conspicuous absence." 
the old constitution. For exam­everything to be handed to
'"The President's Council is a
ple take the Board of Directors them." 
worse body· than the Senate. It's 
of the Student Union. You have 
less representative and undemo­
the SBP, the SBVP, the Student Chairman of the Hall Presi­
cratic. The hall presidents are
Government Treasurer, the Stu­dent's Council, John Barkett,
overburdened, they have impor­
dent Union Director and a says ·that "It's a pretty good
Buz Imhoff 

tant work to do in the halls.
faculty member elected by the constitution. However, I'm not board. The only truly indepen­"When Krashna was running too enthusiastic about the role dent member is the Vice Presi­last year, he and his followers the Hall Presidents have to play.
New rules ban all 

dent for Student Affairs " were saying, 'power to the I think they have enough to do Regarding the elimination of people' and I don't see any on their own. But if this is the the Senate, and establishing a 'power to the people', I see way it goes through, it can be

hippies from Vietnam 

President's Council instead, he power in one man. It's unrepre­done." He only voiced two claimed that "The President's sentative and undemocratic." reservations concerning the pro­''Students with long hari
SAIGON (UPI) South 

Council has no power It can posed charter. He's "Not sure" Vietnamese government order to won't be allowed into the ''I'm disappointed in the pro­
only suggest measures. Last year the SBP could chair the Council 
the nation's young to look trim country. In fact, some people posed constitution. The old one
the Senate passed the Soph Car and doesn't think the student
right in this room will be advised has to be changed, but I think
will be extended to aliens who 
Bill which is now being consi· SLC members should vote on 
will no longer be allowed into to get haircuts," he said this new version could be im­
dered by the Student Life the budget.
the country with unshorn hair, observing several long haired proved,"
Council. The President's Council 
reporters in the room.

an official spokesman said Stay Senator Tom Thrasher
could only suggest that."
Long haricuts "have a bad Buz Imhoff, President of
yesterday. commented, "It's not as good as
effect on our younger generation He claims that the elimination Badin, says he has some reserva­
''We had decided not to invite of a legislative branch is not it could be. It's substantially
here," he said. tion about the President's Coun­
visitors with long hair cuts to good. Stone stated, "The Stu­inferior to what they could have 
Saigon officials, cracking cil. "My primary reservation is
visit our country," Nguyen Ngoc come out with."
down on crime, have impounded dent Life Council is subordinate the idea of the President assum­Huyen, director of the National to the executive bmnch (in this Pat Weber, the other Stay ing the role of handling· the
news cards of young

Press Center told· a 1,100 identity South Vietnamese until they constitution). Dave did it deli­Senator said he does not think budget. That kind of scares me.
hriefin!! 
berately so he can be the top that "the proposed constitution It's taking the hall president
obtain haricuts. All Vietnamese are required to carry identity dog." He went on to explain, '"I is as good as the present one." from the halls, which is where he 
Sen. McGovern can't say if he did it for himself The major point against it he should be. I feel the Hall
cards that must be surrendered 

upon demand of police. personally, or on a more abstract feels is the replacement of the President job is more internal." 
coming Friday 

SMC academic proposal tabled
George McGovern, Demo­

cratic Senator from South Dako­
By Sue Mullin students make a written agree­Jeanne Naumann reported
ta will appear at the University 
Student President Ann ment with each of their teachers she spoken
of Notre Dame on· Friday, Octo­Body that had to Sister 
Marie Tracey told the Student to make up work missed during Immaculata, Dean of Students
ber 9. The complete schedule for that period.
Assembly last night that the about allowing the girls in Hoi~
his visit has not yet been deter­
Academic Alternative Proposal According to Miss Tracey Cross Hall to paint their rooms.
mined, but he will definitely 
has been tabled at the Academic members of the Council felt that According to Miss Naumann the
appear at the faculty club from 
Affairs Council meeting. the proposal might politicize the rooms would have to be checked 
8 to I 0 p.m. Friday night to talk 
school. The Assembly agreed to before and after the painting and with anyone present. Tickets for 
The Students Assembly, present the proposal again at the all paint would have to be
that appearance are $10 per per­which did not recommend the 
next meeting of the Academic bought through the hall Sheson and $15 per couple. 
referendum for a political recess 

Affairs Council. hopes to make a proposal to the 
It is reported that McGovern formulated this proposal to help Connie Byrne. a member of the Student Assembly soon. will appear at Stepan Center .Provide academic freedom for Assembly, reported on the rec­The Off-Campus Housing under the auspices of the Stu­stusdents who wish to partici­reational facilities ·on campus Proposal recommended by the dent Union Academic Commis-pate in political campaigns be­available to St. Mary's girls. She Student Affairs Committee and 
. sion, but the details for this have tween October 24 and Novem­said that she would look into the the Student Assembly was pass­not been confirmt•d. ber 4. possibilities of improving the ed by the Student Affairs Coun­The proposal stated that these facilities. cil. Ann Marie Tracy 



Page 2 Wednesday. October 7, 1970

THE OBSERfJER. 
Observer Insight 



Princeton Plan discussed: A Postmortem 
By Dennis McCoy administration to insure the defeat of the people. He opined that this apathy has Kromkowski commented. 
proposal. 

always been stronger at Notre Dame due He felt that if the university wasLast Friday Notre Dame went to the "It was like using heavy artillery to to the fact that it is situated "just near a further politicized, specifically inpolls to decisively register its rejection of swat a fly," commented Bohan. He large city but not close enough to be reference to the Princeton Plan, "it wouldthe controversial Princeton Plan. Con­speculated that these precautions were 
involved." continue, but further confuse its image in spicuous by its absence was fifty-three not even necessary because the plan the mind of the nuhlic " 
percent of the student body. Much has This isolation from the larger com­
would have probably failed on its own Mr. Kromkowski noted a number of
been said by many concerning the plan munity was blamed by Mr. Bohan for
merits due to the second factor: student signs which he thought were very
and the vote. much of the lack of interest. He
apathy. 

encouraging. Among them were: the large
What happened Friday has caused a expressed the belief that this situation
Mr. Kromkowski while admitting that enrollment in Notre Dame's Government
great deal of discussion on the political makes it possible for a panty raid to draw
the conditions of the referendum might department, the most subscribed depart­
atmosphere current at Notre Dame. a crowd of 2.:~)0 while a peace rally at
have kept people away thought they ment m the university; the large number
St. Mary's attracted only half that total.
Analysis of the event and its implication should not have. He referred to this as a of students that attend political lectures

has been heated. In order to shed light on Part of the blame was laid to the
"defeatist attitude" on the part of the on campus; the voter registration service
the situation, the Observer interviewed administration which "at least in the past
students. Although he did not want to go encouraged apathy.,. In the past, "the provided by the university; the New two political scientists: Prof. Richard into a detailed analysis of the vote, he football team was the only thing to Congress Committee; and the variousBohan of the St. Mary's Political Science suggested that the poor showing might be interest you." But he added that things service organizations that students aredepartment and Prof. John Kromowski of 
explained by the fact that "the vast are "definitely different now." involved in. 
Notre Dame's Government department. 

majority of students were not in favor." But the reasons for not voting at Notre The views of these men are significantEach educator had a different view­But the specific case of Friday's Dame are different from outside the and they help to analyze what haspoint, as to what happened Friday. Mr. 
referendum has caused many to conclude university, Bohan argued, citing the fact happened in the past months with aBohan cited two basic reasons for the that there is something basically wrong at that ninety percent of cr)IJege graduates certain amount cif objectivity. Thedefeat and the bad voter turn out. He 
Notre Dame. The theory is that Friday do vote. administration may have been guilty of ashared with many, including SBP David was only another example of the apathy Mr. Kromkowski took a different view serious breech of rights, certainly ofKrashna, the opinion that th.~ proposal or apoliticality on this campus that many of the matter. He agreed that Notre Dame heavy-handed ness. Yet there arc still was dead before it even caine to vote. 
means for those who are interested and
find deplorable. might not be as active politically as other
Bohan cited the separation of the faculty Both gentlemen suggested ways of campuses but did not see it as a problem. truly dedicated of working for what theyand students in voting, the requirement exammmg the problem. Mr. Bohan "I don't see that as a bad sign. Pt'rhaps believe in. Notre Dame is probably notof an absolute majority, and the method observed that the phenomenon of apathy students are forming a basis for opinions politically dead. Indeed, in a real sense itof time makeup as concious moves by the is present among any large group of rather than experimenting with power " may be just politically coming alive. 

Tldcets 

Placement Bureau plans open house 
Need Georgia Tech Tix 

active season. Planned activities Engineering students are invited Those considering a career 
Call Steve 6964 

The Notre Dame Placement include an Open House, a visit to the Open House today, with the State Department can Bureau has now entered its most 
by a representative from the Wednesday, October 7, from 2 meet for interviews on Monday, 
U.S. Foreign Service, and a to 5 p.m. Thursday, October 8, October 12, from I 0 to 12 p.m.,
:J.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=.~:=:~:~:=:~:·!·!•!•!•!•!•::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:::t! 

Placement Night to help prepare Graduate and Law students are and from I to j, or l"uesday, · » * employment-seekers for their October 13, from l 0 to l 2 and
invited; the times will be the~ll ..Blackout" HolneCOIJIIn' D•ncelll~ interviews. same. Willemin reported that from 3 to 5. No other 
~ ~ there was a steady flow of Arts arrangements are necessary. The Open House, according to and Letters and Science students Students may pick up State
~l Tickets on sale daily 4-6 pm Student Union Ticket Office~lll Mr. Ed Willemin, Director of this on Tuesday. He added that SMC Dept literature beforehand inii:!:!:~!:!:!:!:!:!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!:!!!!!~:::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!:!:!:~:=:=:;,..~;:::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
service, is an attempt to establish students and faculty arc invited room 222, in the Main Building. better communication between to each of the sessions. the student body, especially the 
The State Dept. requires that
graduating seniors and graduate The materials on display are all applicants be twenty-one
STUDENT UNION 

students, the college faculties, invaluable to seniors and years old or older and take a
and the Bureau. graduate students to prepare for Foreign Services exam. 
Busin ·~s Administration and job interviews. These same materiul~ are available in the

The Bureau will present a 
rooms surrounding room 222 in 
Placement Night, Wednesday,the Main Building. 
October 14, at 7 p.m., in the Fall is the ideal time to begin 
Engineering Auditorium. This to prepare, suggested Willemin, 
program, co-organized by because interviews begin Diredor Willemin and Professor October 21 and commitments 
Waldemar Goulet of the Finance by both company and student Department, will help prepare arc made soom thereafter. 
the student for employment interviews. A mock interview 
The Placement Bureau has and films of techniques used in arranged for Mr. James Barnes. a interviewing will also be career officer in the U.S. Foreign presented. Service, Department of State, to speak to students interested in 

Erratum
that branch of government 
service on October 12 and 13. 
In a story printed in Monday'sHis interest is directed primarily 
at Arts and Letters, Business 
Observer it was mentioned Ad ministration, and MBA erroneously that Don Mooney, students, especially those with a Public Relations Director for preference for economics Student (;overnment and · 
government, political science, 
popular campus disc-jockey, was business, and public 
the chairman of an organizationadministration. 
known as The Committee for a 
New Congress. Mr. MooneyTYPING. informs us that it is not he, but a Any material, any length, Mr. Barney Gallagher who is the charts and diagrams. Coordinator for the $.50/page. Will pick up and afforcmentioned group. We·deliver. Call Connie Paden stand corrected.2 89-0177 after 4 PM.  
Hair Styling .for !1/D men the Continental Way Razor Cutting[. Style Enropean Layer Shaping for Long Hair Have Long Hair dr · Let Miss Treva & The Baron Be Well Groomed Serv.e & Pamper You Continental Hair Styling 306 Sherland Bldg. South Bend, Ind. Student Rates 234-0811 By Appt.  
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, 1nd. 46556. Second class postage~ paid Notre Dame Ind. 46556.  

We<inesday, October 7, 1970 
THE OBSERJJER. Page 3 



Ed Gulyas: a walk-on who made it 
by Bruce Kennedy tions did you play in high school?

Observer Sportswriter GULYAS: I played halfbackEd Gulyas is a junior at Notre and a little quarterback. I neverDame who has fought his way played any defense.
from a walk-on to a starting OBSERVER: How did youhalfback for the Irish. Today, like the switch from offense toThe Observer is featuring an defense when you arrived here? 
interview with Ed, who has re­GULYAS: Well, I liked it,covered from an ankle injury because it was completely new and will start Saturday against to me. It was a nice change to Army. 
stop someone from running the OBSERVER: Ed, what posi ball instead of getting hit. But I 

JIM MURRAY 
Bouton 


Whiffs Baseball 
© 1970, Los Angeles Times 


When Jim Bouton was a fast-balling young right-hander with the New York Yankees, he threw so hard his hat used to fall off with every pitch. They knew he was through when it didn't even fall down over his eyes. You.. can throw a knuckleball with a top hat and a monocle. 
"I always figured I had to get everything I could behind everything I threw because I wasn't big or strong. So I threw myself at the batter as well as the ball," Jim explained the other day as he sat picking over his salad in the Beverly Hills Hotel. 
Pitchers who lose their fastball don't usually lunch at the Beverly Hills. They're usually having a beer and a submarine sandwich in the cab of a truck. 
When Jim Bouton wrote a book, he realized he would have to knock his hat off. On the mound, Koufax he was not. On paper, Shakespeare he was not. "I knew I couldn't write a book saying, 'And then I jammed him on the fists and got the side out and now we need only I 0 games to win the pennant."' 
So Bouton's book was hardly a knuckleball. It buzzed baseball right under the chin. It was a knockdown. He knew he had to get good stuff on the ball and he did. 
But, any pitcher knows, you have to get help from the opposition. They have to swing at bad pitches lay off good ones, run to the wrong base, make mistakes, get caught off strike, commit themselves too soon. 
Bouton made a monkey out of baseball. He got them to hit HIS pitch every time. 
"You couldn't have planned it better if you sat down and drew up a plan," he admitted as he stuck a fork in a lobster "You could say 'OK, first the Commissioner of Baseball calls you in and delivers a reprimand-which is covered by NBC, ABC, CBS, Reuters, the AP, UPI, all the big papers.' You get on the II o'clock news and David Brinkley and in Life, Time, Newsweek, the Dow-Jones, Christian Science Monitor, Police Gazette. The Sporting News scolds you. You can only hope you get banned in Boston, denounced from the pulpit, and called up before the U.S. Senate. 
"Then you get Dick Young of the New York Daily News to call you a· rat-fink, or words to that effect, in a paper with two and one-half million daily circulation-not once but three times! You get Mickey Mantle to say a few words of denouncement. That's 10,000 more copies sold right there. 
"You feel just as if you were directing an orchestra which is doing exactly what you wish. You point a stick and, instead of thinking, 'Now the French horns,' you think, 'Now, the commissioner, now, Dick Young, now, Mantle, now, here we bring in the counterpoint. It was beautiful. I had a no-hitter going. 
"Here I was with no fast ball. On some days, my knuckler wouldn't break-and when a knuckler doesn't break, you're throwing batting practice. But baseball still thought it had its hooks into me. My friends were shook. 'Look,' they said, 'you make $27,000 a year. And you throw it away -for a few lousy book sales. 
"Well, the book has sold 165,000. 1 have made over $80,000. I am going to cover the World Series for a new syndicate. I want to make the book into a Broadway musical. Can you see the scene with 25 ball players with binoculars prancing over a Washington Hotel roof to watch broads undressing? Can you see Joe Schultz, the manager, running out at intervals to say, 'Bleep-bleep, let's do down some Budweiser?' 
··can you see paperbacks, a sequel, a movie? Why I may have to incorporate!" 
The Establishment continued to pay dividends in its indignation. When Dick Young showed up in the locker room, far from dumping a pail of water over him, Bouton stuck his hand out and grinned. Relieved, Young blurted: ''I'm glad you didn't take it personally!" 
Bouton clapped his hand to his head. "I thought, 'My God, the title to my sequel!" 
The moral is clear. If anyone writes a book about YOU, clam up. Just smile mysteriously and, pretty soon, the author will come screaming around saying, "Don't just sit there, denounce me! Don't you realize I called you a ......... , that l held you up to ridicule, that I told all? Get indignant! I need the money!" • 
Just lean over and pat him on the head and murmur, "There, there! I haven't got around to reading your little book yet but I will one of these years. But I just want you to know I just told the AP and Channel Two that I thought it was a nice little book for kiddies--you know, sort of like 'King of the Home Run."' 
got back on offense and it seems 
more natural for me to run 
with the ball. I feel more secure 
and more at home at offense. 1 
played my freshmen year and 
half my sophomore fall at de­
fense, and then switched. 
OBSERVER: Did they ask 
you to switch? 
GULYAS: No, they did it on 
their own. After the third game I 
wasn't doing much, so they 
moved me to fullback as a back 
-up man. Then they switched me 
to halfback and then to fullback, 
and finally this spring they kept 
me at halfback. 
OBSERVER: What was it like 
to be a walk-on on the frosh 
team? 
GULYAS: When you're a 
walk-on, you're set aside. You 
become a living cadaver. You're 
like a body out there. And they 
hit you around a little bit, and 
then once in a while they'll give 
you a shot . If the breaks are 
with you, you'll do well and 
they'll look at you more. If you 
do well again, they'll play you a 
little bit. I got a lot of breaks my 
freshman year. I was lucky and I 
capitalized on those breaks. 
OBSERVER: Now for the big 
question: what do you think of 
Notre Dame footballwise? 
GULYAS: It's good. But the 
trouble is, football here is big 
time. It's business. It really gets 
impersonal at times. But it has 
to be that way. You have to 
realize that and you have to 
accept the responsibility of prac­
ticing all that time for ·the re­
ward you're supposed to get. It 
really takes up a hell of a lot of 
time. Sometimes you wonder 
whether it's worth it but then 
again, like the last three weeks it 
has been great because we've 
won, and it gives you a good 
feeling after you win. I guess 
that's what it's all about The 
guys on the team really make it 
great. Really make it worth­
while. 
OBSERVER.: How about ND 
outside of football? 
GULYAS: It's good academ­
ically and that's why I came here 
first of all. Ive been doing well 
so far and I'm majoring in gov­
ernment. I enjoy it and it is 
challenging. · 
OBSERVER: Have you any 
good words to say about Ara? 
GULYAS: Ara? YEAH. I real­
ly do. I respect him. He's 
straightforward. He's level­
headed. He sets the rules and 
you play by the rules. You don't 
UPI Poll 
NEW YORK (UPI) -The top 20 major college football teams as selected by the United Press International Hoard of Coaches with first place votes and season records in parentheses. 
Third week: Team Points 
I. Ohio St. (I 8) 2-0 .....326 2. Texas (9) 3-0 ........291 3. Notre Dame (4) 3-0 ...277 4. So. Cal. (3) 3-0-1 ....245 
5. Nebraska (l) 3~0-1 ...201 6. Mississippi 3-0 .......174 
7. Air Force 4-0 ........110 8. Michigan 3-0 ........ 85 9. Auburn 3-0 ......... 79 
I 0. Arkansas 3 -I ........ 29 
II. Arizona St. 3-0 ....... 27 I 2. Stanford 3-1 ......... 24 13.(Tie)UCLA3-I ...... 13 
(Tie) Missouri 3-1 ..... 13 
15. Georgia Tech 4-0 ..... II 16. West Vir. 4-0 . . . . . . . . 8 17. Tennessee 2-1 . . . . . . . . 5 18. Colorado 2-1 . . . . . . . . 4 19.0klahoma2-l ....... 2 
20. San Diego St. 4-0 . . . . . I 

or you'll get plans or goals for the future.

in trouble and he'll set you GULYAS: I plan on going to
straight. grad school, foreign service. 
OBSERVER: What are your 
Just for the record 
by Mike Pavlin 
Editor's Note: 
Even though Mike Pavlin (former OESER VER Sports Editor) has hung up his typewriter in favor ofhistory books he still finds it hard to keep away from record books and statistics. Mike submitted these stats that might possibly be record setting ifthe Irish keep playing at their present pace. 
Sporting a 3--0 record, the Fighting Irish have set a furious pace­in the record book as well as on the field. At this time, the team and certain individuals have good shots at the following records, some of which (career) have already been broken. 
TEAM -SEASON I. PAT (by kick)%-.942, 1.000 2. Rush Attempts.-663, 224 3. Net Rush Yds.-3430, 1025 
4. Rush Yds./Game-340.1, 341.7 5. Pass Yds./Attempt-9.82, 9.49 6. Pass Yds./Game-210.5, 193.0 
7. Pass Yardage-2105,579 8. Total Offensive Plays-909, 285 9. Total Offensive Yds.-5044, 1604 
10. Total Offensive Yds./Game-504.4 534.7 
11. First Downs by Rush -171, 53 12. Pass Completion% -.583, .607 INDIVIDUAL-SINGLE GAME 
I. (TIE) Touchdown Passes Caught -Tom Gatewood 3 
INDIVIDUAL ·-SEASON · 1. Rushing•Average (min. 25 rushes)-10.7 Larry Parker 10.5 
2. 
Rushing Average (min. 50 rushes) -8.11, Larry Parker 10.5 

3. 
Pass Completions-116, Joe Theismann 36 

4. 
Pass Attempts-210, Joe Theismann 60 

5. 
Pass Completion% -.589, Joe Theismann .600 

6. 
Lowest% Had Interc. -3.5%, Joe Theismann 3.33% 

7. 
Total Offensive Plays-308, Joe Theismann 1OS 

8. 
Total Offensive Yardage-2069, Joe Theismann 721 

9. 
Pass Receptions-60, Tom Gatewood 28 10 Reception Y ds. -1114, Tom Gatewood 420 


II. Touchdown Passes Caught-9, Tom Gatewood 3 12. Passinterceptions-9, Clarence Ellis 3 13. PAT's Scored-41, Scott Hempel14 
14. Points by Kicking -61 , Scott Hempel 20 INDIVIDUAL -CAREER 
I. (Broken) PAT Attempts -Scott Hempel I 08 
2. (Broken) PAT Conversions -Scott Hempel 100 3. PAT%-.914, Scott Hempel .926 
4. 
Field Goals -13, Scott Hempel 1 2 

5. 
Pass Completion % -.567, Joe Theismann .568 

6. 
Yds./Pass Attempt-8.38, Joe Theismann 8.41 

7. 
Total Performance Play&* -7 51, Joe Theis mann 538 

8. 
Total Performance Yds.**-4833, Joe Theismann 3452 

9. 
Total Offensive Plays -731, Joe Theismann 521 I 0. Total Offensive Yds. -4738, Joe Theismann 3340 


II. Touchdown Pass Receptions -16, Tom Gatewood (a junior) 11 I 2. Passes Broken Up -19, Clarence Ellis (a junior) IS *Includes Rushes, Passes, Pass Receptions, Interceptions, Punts, Kick Returns PAT's, Field Goals. **All Yardage gained except on Punts, PAT's, Field Goals. 


I 
I ~ Page 4 THE QBJZilfJEit Wednesday, October 7, 1970 
I I I 
I B~t~!!~er jump squad misses
I I I Jeanne Sweeney A frantic squirrel marooned outside Flanner's twelfth floor last night brought excitement to the hall's usual hum drum night routine. The 1OB Blanket Bri­gade rushed to the rescue with two official ND rally-torn blan­kets to catch the suicidal squirrel. Our friend the squirrel, nick­named Rocky, had scaled the north side of Flanner Tower (since the elevator was again out of order) and stopped upon reaching the tenth story, evi­dently frozen with fear of 
Wont to leo;~·~b~~·;mn~ 
ll:::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::s::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::i:~ 

An lrn,_,.rrl Coat.. 
McGREGOR'S 
SNO STADIUM 
The one cQat designed for Michiana winters. 
Features detachable hood, large and roomy pockets, 
plush lining of Orion, full zipper front beneath 
the buttons for added warmth. Choose from several 
colors ... but choose it soon, it's later than you think. 
Stop in and examine our large coat and 
jacket selection ... suedes, leathers, wools 
and many more. 

JUST IN! THE NEW VELOUR SHIRTS 
A fme selection of solid colors and stripes, belted and unbelted. Sharp! Sharp! 
Use your account... 
PAY ON£-THIRD 
In January 
PAY 011£-TH_, 
In February 
PAY ONE-THIRD 

In March NO CA..YING CHAIIG£ ON TilE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
heights. 
This furry quadruped attracted more attention than the celebrated mouse that scampered through the South Dining Hall during Monday's Lunch. Helpful students abounded both on the ground and hanging ape-like from the Flanner windows. 
·Father Maunce ''forever and ever" Amen commented, "They are certainly concerned stu­dents." 
Amid shouts of "jump, jump, jump" and "over the wall," the Save The Squirrel Squad decided 
111~ Weelrencl Trfp
•••• fO1111 
;:~ 
:~:1 Missouri ~i~ 
~ Od.16-!8
·=~ 
•
I
:!;l Sales at First Bank Travel Bureau -Ground Floor of Badin Hall :.1.=.•:. 9:00-12:00; 1:00-4:30 p.m. Daily 
» 
=.~.~ 
I 
1111 $48.50 includes: Round trip bus to St. Louis-2 nights stay 1~l at Sheraton -Round trip bus to game -Game Ticket. 
:;::LIMITED SEATS AVAILABLE FIRST COME FIRST SERVd~ 
~:~F11o ,.ALL SALES FINAL . ;~~ 

;:;:: gade, (reminiscent of a centipede ~:;: with athlete's feet) clinging ten­::1:~ aciously to their s~curity blan­:;:;: ket, tried to follow the squirrel's 
::1:~ indecisive movements. ~:1: Hooting "you'll never catch 
llll --~~~-·
·:-: 
.,, .__..__,
I 
N 
~r: 
:::: 
::::
• 
j
*; N 
1!11 
to attempt a practice catch in their improvised netting. Al­though disgruntled by the re­fusal of the South Bend Fire Department to send assistance they performed in yeoman fashion in the dry-run ·of catch­ing a pigskin dropped from the ninth floor. They certainly need the practice missing it by a 
country mile. 
Later the Flanner Rector candidly observed ''that's the ---est squirrel I ever saw! 
In the meantime an emfilinent SMC humanistic psychologist, Dr. Arthur Hochberg, analyzing Rocky's motives, said, "He's probably suffering from existen­tial despair." 
Comments heard in the crowd included: "We want to get him before the North Dining Hall does." 'Set up a scholarship fund for 
his kids'.' 
"Call a priest ~· 
·'Give us Barabas." 
Suddenly the squirrel decided to make his move. As he scam­pered from one side of the towe_r to the other, the b Ian ket bn­
·~~•• 
Meeting for prospective members -7:30 PM ­Room 303 Engineering Bldg. · Give some boy a helping hand -Present members welcome 

nutty suicide case 
me -.na, na " the brown rodent the squirrel. He revealed that he leaped from the Flanner facade. was no ordinary squirrel but His herculean leap carried him far rather a member of the famed 
past the bloodthirsty masses Sciuridaw family, and that he Landing unscathed a few yards had been hired as a publicity beyond the bleatint~ crowd. he stunt to promote the openings 
quickly hopped around the of the Theology of Death Lec­building and up an awaiting tree. ture~. Later in that same· tree, the Observer branched out to con­
ISPORTS PI· ] I
duct an exclusive inlterview with 
MOD Squad needs students 
The MOD Squad will stop at 

Notre Dame Salturday While 
pursuing the trail of one of 
America's most feared public 
enemies. Hopefully the squad 
will consist of 200 Notre Dame 
and St. Mary's students who will 
collect for the March of Dimes 
birth defect fund before the 
football game. 
In the past the program relied 

on -area high school students but 
the effectiveness was limited 
because "few people were 
willing to fight the traffic to go 
to the campus " according to 
Albert ' Brenner chairman of · 
Community Relations at 
Morrissey Hall. 
This year the March of Dimes 

is asking 200 students to canvas 
the stadium area for 
contributions. The MOD Squad 
will assemble in room 128 of 
O'Shaughnessy Hall between 
10:45 and II a.m. to pick up a canister and MOD Squad button. Brenner said the volunt~~rs will 
Blue Circle membership open 
Mike Hawes, chairman of the Blue Circle membership committee announced that the Blue Circle is accepting applications for memhershio with a deadline of Friday, October 9. Any Notre Dame or St. Mary's student may apply by mailing a brief statement of purpose to: Blue Circle, 223 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana. Applicants will be notified as to the time and place of their interview. 
SEN}\TE ELECTIONS 
All thos,e interested 
for the Student Senate must 
attend a meeting 
TONIGHT 7 PM LAFORTUNE 1-C 

,,,,...................
~ 

return their canisters to the same room between 1:15 and 1:30 allowing time to return for the 
kick-off. 
Brenner said the volunteers will have the opportunity to meet children born with birth defects who will benefit from the M.O.D. campaign. Further 
information may be obtained by 
dialing 3584 and asking for 
Brenner. 
Directories comlnt soon 
The 1970-71 Notre Dame and St. Mary:s Directories will be distributed in approximately three weeks. 
The two month lag between school's start and the arrival of the directories is a necessary delay according to Student Union director Bob Pohl. Pohl said the Administration needed four weeks to correct the origi­nal computer listing once all the off and on campus addresses became final, and it takes another four weeks for the amended version to be sent off and printed. 
Every year the directory is distributed free to the doors of all students at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. The expenses are met by advertisements. The book contains the names, addresses, phone numbers. and home ad­dresses of all the students on both campuses, and information on faculty members and Ad­ministration. The directory is being printed by Plains Publi­shers of Lubbock Texas. 



