Pohl announces selections for SU offices 
by Gr~~ Pudhorod*y 

Newly appointed Student Union Director Bob l'uhl, yes­terday announced his selections for four major Student Union offices: Tom Olivieri, Associate Director; Rob Browning, Ser­vices Commissioner: Jim l'orst, Social Commissioner; and Ken Mannings, Executive Coordi­nator. 
Olivieri, currenlly Junior Class Vice-President, said that he will work strongly in conjunction with Pohl on various matters. He will also serve as liason to the South Bend Chamber of Com­merce and similar civic groups to coordinate functions the Stu­dent Union hopes to initiate in the upcoming year for the 
.purpose of forming closer bonds between the U niversi!y and urban communities. Among I hese tenta lively proposed pro­grams is a carnival for the children of South Bend. 
I he post of Execul ive Coordi­nator was created this year. When explaining this action Pohl argued that "one of the weak­
nesses of the Student Union in 
the past years is that it hasn't been able to work with minori­ties on campus. The Executive Coordinator will attempt to correlate these groups." 
The S U president added that the new coordinator will also be working in close conjunction with the hall presidents in order to bring about a more meaning­ful relationship between the Union and hall life. 
Mannings, who will serve in the new post, was the past 

(continued on page 2) Ken Mannings 

VOL. IV, No. 107 Serving the Notre Dame a11d Saint Mary's Coilcf;C rommuni~J' 
Talks on new principles of literature 

Solotaroff keynotes SLF 

by Charlie Myers excessive. When criticism arises, Solotaroff emphasized the A lecture on "New Principles however, the teachers fall hack fact that we have stopped taking of l.iteralure", the theme of the 
on the established crafts. · old values for granted; the IY70 Sophomore Literary Fes­
Solotaroff admits that the concept of culture is no longer educators "preach spontanaiety an end in itself. There has been atival, was presented yesterday in 
the Library Auditorium by 

and practice analysis." The quest visible loss of the authority of Theodore Solotaroff, editor of 
for Iibera lion and vitality is in literature itself since literature conflil'l. no longer has the power to

New American Review and keynote spt.!aker ol the Literary Mr. Solotaroff explained the furmulate and preserve values. h:stival. 
difficulty which arises in distin­The nostalgia of the past has 
The speaker made no pretense guishing between the modern faded away. and post-modern periods of ' Mr. Solotaroff sees contem­

as to understanding what the new literary principles precisely literature. The modern period porary writers as advocating a are. A major impression which 
comprises the first few de~:ades sense of community along with a contemporary literature has 
of this century, with the post feeling of self liberation by made upon Mr. Solotaroff is that modern extending from that which to explore and review just it is in a state of transition. He 
time until the present. what bdng a writer means. In effect, says Mr. Solotaroff,places us metaphorically on the all that is being experimented In his concluding remarks, Mr.

"riptide of the literary sea", and Solotaroff expressed optimisti­
with now, both in style and

the majority of middle aged cally that this "riptide of the
content, is grounded in the

writers seem to be caught in the literary sea" has put us in a
modern period. He suggests as an explanation for this type of position to be able to feel, to middle. 

Solotaroff points out that the org;mize, and to communicate 

careers of such men as Mailer, cultural and literary wheel, a more differently than ever be­Barth, and Roth exhibit a sense historically rotating circle of fore.
of transformation. The formal styles. The post-modern period, of impersonal, detached, objec­then, would be the closest point In the short discussion which tive fiction is giving way to an to us at present. followed, questions dealing with excessive style emphasizing free Characteristic of the present the relationship of author to play of the imagination. period of Literature is the rapid audience were discussed. Mr. 
Yet this transition involves a acceleration of change, which Solotaroff felt that the concept risk. Mr. Solotaroff notes that makes us looser, more flexible, of audience has become decen­educators and instructors look and more adaptable. Mr. Solo­tralized, to the point of be­for freshness and vitality; stu­taroff suggests that at present coming something vague. The dents are urged to develop what our values are not the grounds writer writes for himself and for is personal to them, and they for our experience, but that a community, he stated, a encourage young writers to '\:ul experience is becoming the community in which the con­loose" and take tl~e risk of being grounds for our values. cept of audience is surpassed. 
Curriculum revision report approved 
by Steve Lazar 
increased student participation on
den lial, coeducational Notre 
academic committees, intensih­
After nearly two years of Dame-St. Mary's experimental cation and expansion of counsel­intensive study in the area of program to be opened as early as 

ling services, reduction of the curriculum reform the long September, 1971. 
Theology-Philosophy requHe­awaited recommendations of The resolution ·recommends 
ments, and, in short, diversifica­Notre Dame's Curriculum Revi­that an advisory board be tion of the curriculum. 

sion Committee were approved appointed to "consider the esta­One resolution reads that the recently by the Academic Coun­blishment of a residential, coed­grading system be changed to 
cil. ucational, cross college program, allow the insertion of two new 
The most prominent of the in the sophomore year, to 
grades: A-(3.500) and B­eleven resolutions appears to be experiment broadly in innova­

(2.500).

the recommendation of a resi tive academic methodology and When asked why the new 
to test new educational depar­
grades were termed A-and B­
tures." 
intead of C+ and B+ Father
Rev. John E. Walsh, Vice 
Walsh answered: 
President for Academic Affairs, 
"The curriculum committee 
noted the importance of the 
had actually recommended C+ 
advisory board in the develop­
and B+. But when it got to the ment of this program. 
Academic Council itself a num­
"The concept has been 
ber of the members thought that 
approved in principle," he said, 
psychologically it would work to 
"but the specifics will largely 
the students' advantage to list it 
del?end on what the advisory 
not as a B+ but as an A-. It 
board recommends." 
might be more advantageous in 
In several other far-reaching 
reference to graduate school 
proposals the Academic Council 
applications, professional school 
approved changes in the grading 
and so forth," he said. 
system and the academic year, 
(continued on page 6)


Mr. Solotuofrs address marked the opening of the Sophomore 
Literary Festival yesterday 
0 0
Groups VOICe v1ews 
by Neil Rosini 
In Thursday morning's closed tic." 
session of the ·student Affairs Kronk said that the reason 
Sub-Committee of the Board of there was a need for saving the 
Trustees, representatives from Fieldhouse was that "the space 
the University Arts Council and is existing right now." Once the 
the Nutting For President Move­Fieldhouse is torn down, Kronk 
ment presented their views. said there is no other place able 
Four representatives from the to hold the "progressive" Arts University Arts Council asked program. He noted that the Arts the Sub-Committee for an in­Center, containing 75,000 definite extension on the demo­square feet of space, is open to lition of the Fieldhouse. Accord­all students. ing to Tom Kronk, one of the Other University Arts Council four and chairman of the Arts representatives at the meeting Council, the Committee pro­were Pat Bridenstine, Dan mised to deliver the students' O'Donnell, and Rob Bartoletti. proposal to the Board of Trus­They each spoke on various tees and to ascertain from the financial and philosophical con­Administration exactly why siderations. Also on Thursday there was a need for the morning, six student leaders Fieldhouse to be torn down. from the Nutting for President 
Kronk, later said they request­Movement presented to the ed the extension be granted until Student Affairs Committe their "all the sources of revenues and views on the restructuring of the grants have been sufficiently Notre Dame Administration. exhausted." They advocated a President­
Kronk said that over sixty Chancellor system with Father 
proposals seeking funds for re­Theodore llesburgh as Chancel­storing the building had been lor and Doctor Willis Nutting as sent to foundations all over the President. country "sympathetic to the Because the meeting was 
Arts or to progressive educa­closed, no reporters were allow­tion." He explained that such ed entrance. Miss Karen Grabow­foundations generally require ski, one of the six student 
several months to consider such leaders, later described the meet­requests, but eight f,oundations ing: She said that before the have already rejected the propo­meeting's end, the Committee sals. had expressed an interest in Kronk called the general atti­recommending to the Board of tude of the Trustees "sympathe-(continued 011 page 61 
MONDAY, APRIL 13, 1970
THE OMERVER
PAGE 2 




Pohl announces SU selections


ENROLL. 
(continued from page 1) a 
assistant chairman of the Black people were needed for all of the preterences would be taken Arts Festival. He claimed that Social Commission projects. within the next couple of weeks his duties are specifically defined Talking about the concerts, and the results in conjunction by the position and that some of Porst stated that the number of with other factors will determine

HERE 
the responsibilities include those major concerts would probably which groups would perform in carried out by the associate remain the same. He announced concert. director. By this definition 
that a poD concemin1 students' 
Mannings pointed out that he "will be concerned primarily

THIS 
with the activities and functions dealing with black students and other minorities." 
Pohl, commenting on the basis for the appointments,

SUMMER. 
stated that he felt that all of the appointees fulfilled the simple criteria of being the best quali­fied for the job. 
Continuing to relate SU's goals in the upcoming year, Pohl said that the work would ~ mainly a continuation of that of 

JhaPont
the past year. He included in this policy the lecture, concert, and . services aspects of the Student Warrants issued 1n Union. Pohl also went on to say that the new Union would strive to maintain the fiscal stability Alumni incident achieved this year. by Cliff Wintrode 
con­clerk's office, because the police
Browning reiterated the 
Two townspeople injured in 

have been unable to locate the
tinuation theme in the services 

the fight in Alumni on March 20
phase of the Student Union. He accused during the past two 
have been named in warrants weeks. This was not termed an
also mentioned the possibility of 

charging them with assault and "unusual amount of time" be­
formulation of plans for a 

battery upon a guest of Bill Barz tween issuance and apprehen­
student co-op bookstore. 

that weekend, revealed the sion. Porst to emphasize county prosecutor's office Fri­There is no statute of limita­day. tions on the legality of the Earl Richardson, 21, of 301 S.
smaller concerts warrants. 
Chicago Street, and Michael Barz and his father declined Social Commissicner, Jim Johnson, 19, of 1112 N. John­to file charges against anyone, Porst, stated that greater son Street, are being sought by but were witnesses to the affa­
South Bend police for allegedly
emphasis would be placed on davit filed by Younker. assaulting Eddie Younker, Barz's
smaller events. He cited the The fight began the night of "Dreams" concert as an example guest, who resides in Country March 20 in Alumni when a of such an event. Club Hills, Illinois. resident from town allegedly hit 
Porst, last year's assistant The warrants were issued football player Bill Barz in the Social Commissioner, expressed March 26 three davs after mouth. Quickly escalating to the hope that next year would include about fifteen people, the
Younker filed an affidavit with produce some new ideas for the prosecutors office swearing fight attracted hall members Homecoming , such as the that Johnson and Richardon did who tried to act as peacemakers. introduction of a new format to "unlawfully, and in a rude, Campus security was unable the event. Much of the actual insolent, or angry manner touch, to contain the melee, and the details will depend on the new strike, beat, and wound" him county sheriffs department was 
during the fight.
Homecoming chairman, yet to called, which enlisted the aid of be named. He emphasized that The warrants have not been 
the South Bend police depart­served, said a member of the city 
ment. A South Bend man, A.D. Cross, 21, of 1057 Laurel
SMC plans affair 
Center, was arrested bv South Bend police at the Circle for
"An Affair To Remember" is fulfill the Sunday obligation), the theme which has been and in keeping with the theme disorderly conduct. He was not chosen by the Sophomore and of the weekend the film "An linked to the disturbances inside Junior classes of St. Mary's for Affair to Remember" starring of Alumni. · · · tl 1 d · Cary Grant and Deborah Kerr He pleaded guilty to the
thetr JOID y p anne spnngweek_end. will be shown in the Carroll Hall charge in city court on March The events planned for Fri-auditorium at 8:00 p.m. Satur-25, and was fined forty-four day, April 17th at the South day's mass and movie are open dollars. Bend Country Club will begin to all and it is not necessary to Director of Securjty Arthur with a cocktail hour (cash bar) attend Friday's events to attend Pears said Friday that a security iit 6:30 p.m. followed by a sit those on Sunday. officer was sent to the county down dinner at 7:30. A formal . Tickets for the Friday activi-prosecutor, William Voor, and dance with music~ supplied by ties will be available in Holy submitted security's report of "M f • Cross Hall near the Post Off1·ce the Alumni disturbance. 
the agni icent Seven' will begin at 9:30 and close the and in the lobbies of the other Pears said if the case goes to dorms between 5 ana o p.m. court the officer would be asked 
evening 

from Monday, April 13th to to testify as to what "the
On Saturday, April 18th, a 

Wednesday, April 15th. Tickets conditions were when he arrived
mass will be offered at 7:00p.m. 

for the movie can be purchased at the scene." The officer didI Summer sessions at the University of California's 8 I in the Regina Hall Chapel (to at the door. not see the initial incident. campuses ~art you thinking. There are 2 six-week ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
I sessions at Berkeley, UCLA and Davis and sessions I STUD£NT UNION
I of various lengths on the other campuses, all begin-1 ning in late June. Fees for each session range from I SOCIAL COMMISSION 
I $125 to $160. You have a choice of courses for credit I and professional and educational advancement that's 1 
as wide as most colleges offer during regular semes-IS ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR THE POSITIONS OF:I ters. For an application and more information indicate II the campus of your choice and mail this coupon to: 1 
Assistant Social Commissioner Ticket Manager
I 570 University Hall I University of California I

I Berkeley. California 94720 Collegiate Jazz Festival Chairman Concert Chairman 
I I am interested in courses in: 0 Berkeley I 

Special Projects Chairman Promotion Director 
I 0 Davis 1 
o Los Angeles I Homecoming Chairman Business Manager
I 
Name D Santa Cruz 0 Santa Barbara
I 1 Grand Prix Chairman Mardi Gras Chairman 
Address 0 Irvine I 
Applications should be submitted by April 15 to:
Riverside1 City State __Zip__ 0 San Diego 1 Social Commissioner 
I 0 
Box 427 
Notre Dar.~e. lnd

~-----------------~ 



MONDAY, APRIL 13, 1970

PAGE 3 



Reed attacks critics 
Council sends


for tokenist attitude 
out statement
by Mark Walbran 
Stokley Carmichael Tell Me flow Ishmael Reed, poet, jour­Long the Brain :1· been Gone, by by Dennis Anastasoff nalist, actor and novelist, criti­James Baldwin, tall together. 
Reed alluded to Richard The Sophomore Council hascized literary critics for their 
Wright's scenario of Black drawn up a statement which will
racist and exclusionary policies hoxer:s in ring, surrounded by soon be sent to alL members of
toward Balck literature. Reed, 
white spectoatos. Reed noted the Sophomore class. Entitledthe second guest presented by the Sophomore Literary Festi­
that reviewers arc also racist in "To BE or Not to Be'!'' it states the magazines' layouts. their objectives for next year.
"'io.­

val, thold the large audience in 
During the conclusion of his The decision to keep a council atWashington Hall last night that in literary circles there exists a 
talk, Reed recommended several all will be left up to the Sophomore class.
"tokenist attitude toward black books that reviewers had not "The students will be given
authors." publicized. 
the chouce of whether to have aReed spoke of the "white Reed doubted that the combined ND-SMC' council,poetry syndicate" which "at­printed word is a dead form, as separate councils for bothtempts to deny the kind of McLuhan has suggested. One schools, or to have no council atupsurge other ethnic groups have need only turn to Afto-Ameri­all," said Joseph Stankus, Presi­expreicnced in this country." can, Indian-American, and dent of the Sophomore Class atThe said that there are "invisi­Chinese-American literature, he Notre Dame.
ble Selmas" such as museums said, to see that "print is not --IIIII. 
The Council states that theirwhose racist policies "attempt to dead, but very much I alive.s, 
objective is not to initiate longuse culture as a cap." Reed range reforms for the University,mentioned that museums such as but to function for the better­the metropolitan museum of art 


Law and order symposium 
Soph Cl-president Joe Stdus wil be aeeldn1 response from his classmates on Council issue. 
have poorly provided  for show­ 
ings by Black artists.  by Tom Hufendick  
Blacks, said Reed, have been contributing to American litera­ture for as long as there has been and America. Their efforts, encompassing all genries, have been neglected, he felt. The first Black novel was written in 1854, when the novel form itself was still very young. -Reed criticized editors and critics who attempt to open Black literature to one point of view. Reed's advice to readers was, "Go to the writer." Speaking on slang and col­loquial language, Reed said that this usage might turn out to be the real American prose and poetry. He noted that President Johnson once advised the North Vietnamese to "cool it." Reed charged that literary critics treat afro-American writers like boxers instead of artists. The condemned The New York Review of" Books for reviewing Soul 011 Ice by  "The whole idea of bail in this country has become perverted. It has become punishment in itself -a sentence before trial." Such is the opinion of John Forhan, law student and co­coordinator of the South Bend Bail Project. According to Forhan, the above comment should be some­what typical of those aired at tonight's symposium on law and order. The symposium will be held at 8:00 in the Engineering Auditorium and one dollar will be charged for admission. The subject of the discussion tonight will be relatively general. However, black reaction to law enforcement will probably be discussed, as well as the com­plaint that the same officers are consistently involved in charges of police brutality. Symposium panelists include South Bend Police Chief Loren  Bussert, American Civil Liberties Union attorney George Beamer, and St. Joseph County Legal Aid Director Charles Crutchfield. Also scheduled to appear are Superior Court Judge Frank Kopec, I.U.S.B. sociology pro­fessor Dr. Walter Rister, and St. Joseph County Prosecutor Wil­liam Voor. All proceeds from the sym­posium will go to the South Bend Bail Project, a local, non-profit organization inter­ested in securing general reform in the South Bend bail system. In an interview Saturday, Forhan emphasized that bail reform is desperately needed in South Bend. The principle objec­tion to the current system is that bail is often set so high that the poorer people cannot meet it. The bail levied for shoplifting, for example, is usually in the neighborhood of $300. If a  
Eleridge Cleaver, Black Power by  
. 

GSU plagued by quorum ISSUe 
by Brother Carney Quorums produced a stumb­ling block for the Graduate Student Union in its last two meetings. The group met last Tuesday and Friday in an attempt to adopt a constitution and most of the time (including all of Fri­day's session) was devoted to the section on a quorum. Brielly, the two camps are those who favor a strong rule and those who wish as weak a quorum as possible. Those who hold to the strong view feel that by demanding the majority of the council members and a majority of the departments present to legislate new business, a coup by any small group can be prevented. Their opponents believe that such sl.rict requirements will prevent much action and think lhal it is better to pass some motions with a few people than to accomplish nothing. This point was made when a quorum call was made in the midst of the 
RIP-MHQ 
Michael Kelly sadly announ­ces the death of his car. 
"NOT DEAD 
BUT GONE BEFORE" 
t--·-----·---··­
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by students of the Uni· varsity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from the Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Second class postage patd. Notre Dame, lnd., 46556. 
debate Tuesday night and the floor. Now each article has been lack of a quorum under the accepted but the organization provisionary constitution was still have not approved the entire narrowly averted. constitution. This will be up for 
Some of this problem ap­consideration at this week's parently results from some of meeting. the departments having their Today the housing committee 
own organizations which have plans to contact all those who never elected delegates to this expressed an interest in Carroll organization of the entire grad­Hall for the coming school year. 
uate student body. There is This week's meeting will be some thought of excluding such held in LaFortune's amphi­groups from the number re­theatre as was Friday's because quired for a quorum since they the library auditorium will not 
do not seem to desire representa­be available. 
tion. 
When voting eventually took place on Friday, the final mo­tion was to leave the designation of the quorum to the by-laws. This passed by one vote as the chair broke the tie vote from the 
'70 '71 


INSTITUTE 
Applications for the Board of Directors will be taken through April 17. 
Box 77. 

Notre Dame 
BLOOD DRIVE 
ALPHA PHI OMEGA 
April 14 9-4 Stepan Center 
For info: Bob Miko 
283-1031 



R.F.K. 

ment of the individual. Also, the council points out that to attain community spirit
bondsman is contracted to han­at Notre Dame-Saint Mary's, the dle it, as is usually the case, he place to begin is in the individual charges $30 -a price many halls, although this is not families cannot afford. 
enough. Forhan proposes The Council hopes for con­cerned students who can not
alternate system 

only criticize, but suggest reme­
In place of the present sys­dies for situations. The Council tem, SBBP proposes a "relief on goes on to say that their main own recognizance" plan where­objective is to achieve a class by a large percentage of people spirit. They add that this does 
arrested would be released with­not mean alienating themselves out bail. Forhan cited New York from the rest of the student City and Mishawaka as among body. those who presently employ this 
"Besides these various ser­system. 
vices, much of our work has Because implementation of gone into learning a cooperation such a system is not expected in 
between the men and women of the near future, SBBP has 
ND-SMC, something which must initiated a drive to establish a 
come before we can speak of a revolving bail fund. "This rotary 
truly natural environment, co­fund will be used to prevent education or whatever," says the indigent citizens from having to 
Council. 
wait in jail pending trial," 
FOR SALE: U.S. AIR FORCE
Forhan said. 
REGULATION DRESS UNI­FORM, INCLUDING SUM­
A total of $1500 has hereto­

MER -WINTER BLOUSE TROUSERS, SUSPENDERs' SUMMER-WINTER HAT: 
fore been raised for the bail 
fund, but at least $3000 is 
PLEATED SHIRT, TIE, CUM-
needed to start operation. For­
MERBUND AND RANK INSIGNIA. PRICE $70.00.
han asserted that even this 
SIZES: HAT 7 1/8; TROUSERS 
amount falls far short of the 
34-38, BLOUSE 40-42, SHIRT community's immense need. 
16-34. for Information write to: Lothar Voller, 2000 Oak Lane Gary, Indiana 46408 ' 
Sophomore Literary Festival 
presents 
CLAUDE BROWN 
Black Author of 
Manchild m the Promised Land 
8 P.M. TONITE WASHINGTON HALL 


PAGE4 


THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper DAVID C'. BACH, Editor 
GAETANO M. De SAPIO, Publisher 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Glen Corso========== 
Bussing 

====Campus Opinion===== 
One of the by products of enforced school integration which has aroused the ire of moderates in the North and South has been the need to bus large numbers of students in order to achieve a "racial balance" in school systems. Vocifersus opposition has sprung up among parents and legislators alike wlro feel that unless racial 
segregation is sanctioned b}:' statute, it should be left alone. They especially object to bussing students "unreasonable" distances to make integration an accomplished fact. This opposition transcends sectional prejudices. The New York 
Legislature passed a bill in April of 1969 that banned bussing of 
students to achieve racial integration. It was signed by New York's 
liberal governor, Nelson A. Rockefeller. 
The law "prohibits assignment of students to a school on the basis 
ol race, color, or national origin or for the purpose of achieving equality in attendance or reduced attendance at an!.. school of persons of one or more particular races, creeds, colors or national origins" by any school boards that are appointed or by the state commissioner of education. 
Sen. John C. Stennis, of Mississippi, tacked on an amendment to the 1970 Education bill, which is almost an exact duplicate of the New York State bussing ban. Sen. Abraham Ribicoff while voicing support for another Southern amendment which called for equal enforcement of school integration rulings throughout the United States, voiced his opposition to all but the "most limited bussing." 
"You couldn't do anything worse to a black child than to bus him into a middle class suburb," Ribicoff declared, "The phsycological shock and the philosophical shock are as cruel as anything that can be done." 
Soutern Governors have voiced long standing opposition tc bussing as a means of achieving integration. The recent action by Florida's Governor Claude Kirk is one of a series of incidents where Southern Governors have defied arbitrary court orders. 
At the Southern Governor's Conference held in September of 1969 the Governors rejected a statement which condemned bussing and instead urged restraint and good judgement in matters concerning it. 
Viet~ President Agnew, who appeared at the conftrence blasted 
bussing as a means of achieving integration. 
"If people live in a neighborhood they are entitled to associate together. What I mean is that I'm against bussing those children to other neighborhoods simply to achieve an integrated status of a larger geographic entity." The next day the White House issued a statement endorsing Agnew's statement. 
In a story which appeared in October of 1969 the New York Times, it was revealed that Black disenchantement with forced integration was rising, ...,..-much of this feeling was due to bussing. 
Some Blacks opposed the policy of one way bussing, that is the 
policy of bussing only black students to different schools. They feel 
that students of both races should be bussed, or that no bussing 
should be done at all. Others wanted to keep the present segrated 
system, and pressure the states and the Federal government into 
giving them more money to improve their schools. 
It appears that the policy of bussing large numbers of students, in 
order to achieve an artificial racial balance in school districts that 
have de facto segregation, is indefensible. Not only does it cause 
hardships for the students and parents of both races, but it also 
generates race hatred for thrusting together students who are angry 
and resentful at being forced to attend strange schools, due to the 
dictates of federal judges. 
People of both races oppose bussing, so the arguments of 
proponents who content that anti-bussing forces are made up of 
white supremacists, do not stand up to objective scrutiny. People are 
beginning to realize that while time, effort and money are being 
poured into achieving exact racial balances--as defined by 
Supreme Court dictates--little is being done to improve the quality 
of the schools, especially those who have a large percentage of black 
students enrolled. 
I believe quality education for children of all races must .be our 
first and foremost goal. Where de jure segregation exists, it should be 
abolished. since this constitutes a clear example of the "keeo'em in 
their place" philosophy. However in places where the student body of 
a school is predominately of one race because of housing patterns. 
then there should be no governmental interference. All children hav,. 
a right to go to the school nearest their home. They should not be 
forced to go to strange schools merely to satisfy the dictates of those 
who do not have to suffer the results of their rulings. 
MONDAY, APRIL 13,1970  
YouR  HONOR.>  IHE'R.£'  IS  GRAVE  DANG-£'R,  
OJ=  VIOLENCE.,,  




Jim Rocap 
New white backlash 
When one critically views the history of America, reaching back even to the early seventeenth century slave trade and continuing to the death of Martin Luther King and Fred Hampton, a feeling of anger cannot help but creep in to our minds. The physical and mental repression of Africans during slavery is an uncontested fact, and most white Americans have to be blind not to recognize the forces of legalized slavery since 1863. However, the charges of reverse racism, black segregation, and minority tyranny have been all that white America has offered black people in the last few years. It is an interesting phenomenon of white America that we have categorically been against whatever blacks have proposed. Notice, for example, the continuing dialogue over integration. When Marcus Garvey led the "Back to Africa" movement in the early 20th century, white American found itself in the peculiar position of being almost entirely segregated while-concurrently being against any move of black people to leave America entirely. No one has yet explained whether the whites wanted to live with the blacks or not to live with them. 
In 195 5, Dr. Martin Luther King was able to begin a campaign that would legalize integration, and hopefully force it to occur. Gradually, whites began to accept this idea, although white communities still tended to run when "the colored moved next door." After constant opposition to integration and mass exoduses on the part of whites, blacks in New York and other cities told the white man he didn't want to integrate, but rather wanted to control his own .schools and neighborhoods. Such a negative reaction and uproar that subsequently occured was unbelievable, almost comical. It seems as if whites wait to discover what blacks want and then do everything in their power, contradictions not withstanding, to defeat black demands. 
The white backlash against blacks is growing rapidly. Literature on the subject proceeds in three steps: first, since 1967 the overwhelming majority of whites have believed that black people are not discriminated against any longer. Secondly, many have begun to believe that blacks, chicanos, and other peoples of color constitute a priv!leged minority, with corporate hiring practices, scholarships, welfare programs, "sympathetic" liberal politicians and so on. The third, and most dangerous type of backlash is characterized by a belief that blacks are not only favored, but are actually the oppressors. This is witnessed by the fear of blacks control/in~ their community, by fear of black power, etc. Newsweek magazine (9-1 0-69) ran a special issue devoted specifically to the middle American, "the forgotten man." The underlying theme of the issue was the "oppressed majority." When one remembers that Hitler was 
able to unmercifully annihilate a million people by the same mechanism-convincing them that they were oppressed by the Jews-then Nixon's Jaw and order (unfortunately not law and justice) becomes a thing to be feared. 
The conviction that minonty tyranny is characteristic of 1970 America is perhaps the most dangerous aspect of racism. It enables we whites to wipe guilt from our consciences, to turn our backs on alleged "oppressors" who make Jess than $5,000 a year, and to finally arm ourselves to the teeth. It is an historical force that must be faced and understood for what it is: another rationalization of the white oppressor. 
Managing Editor: Mary Chris 
Morrison Campus Editor: Glen Corso EXECUTIVE EDITOR: Dave 
Stauffer BUSINESS MGR': Bruce Rieck News Editor: Steve Hoffman Associate Editors: Cliff Win-
trade, Ann Conway, Jeanne Sweeney Sports Editor: Terry Shields 
Peatures Editor: T C. Treanor Photography Editor: Mike Mur­phy Night Controller: Scott "Light­ning" Braley Night Editor: Dave Lammers Layout Design: Dave Bach Headlines: Rich Smith, Jim Graif Layout: Jan Reimer, Dave Lammers, Charlie Myers 
PAGE 5 MONDAY, APRIL 13, 1970
7HB OBSERIJER. • 
Mooney moos fti/1 the cows come home 
Don Mooney (his real name), WSND'1 didn't work. He had alienated themmost notorious announcer, recently forever. It may be another six thousanddoubled his listening audience by addre• years until man gets another chance to
ing approximately thirty cows (the communicate with cows, and Mooney
bovine variety) at St. Mary's. had to flame.
Mooney, who runs a talk show and who has had as his guests Fr. Theodore However, eventually some cows did llesburgh, C.S.C., student body president come out, and when they saw the tape Dave K rashna, former student body recorder in Mooney's hand and the president Phil McKenna, and Mag Wheels, cameraman standing in the distance, they 
all came out. And for a moment communicated with the cows Saturday everything was perfect. ' before an astounded and slightly revulsed Mooney had reached the cows. audience of three. Mooney claims to have They were communicating. also done this litlle trick before SMC SBP Man had fulfilled a lifelong dream. He Ann Marie 'fracey. was talking to the animals. 
The cows -technically heifers -were Then the cameraman moved to his black Angus; enclosed by barbed wire and right to take a better picture, and all the lucked behind the halls and dprrns of St. cows moved, too. Mf!ry's. It wasn't enough, however, to Mooney was undaunted. He leaped the squelch the obvious affinity the cows had carbed wire fence; faced the cows; and for Mooney. They just loved him. began to speak. 
It wasn't always easy to call cows, says "When the revolution comes," he Mooney. As a t:hild, he was often turned to the fence and pointed dramati­misunderstood -often called a coward. cally, "that won't even be here." But, he says, it is now a moot question. The cows turned around and meander­For the time being, he has cowed the ed away. Some of them grunted. opposition. Mooney tried a different tack. He got 
Nor has Mooney's route always been a out and bellowed from afar. No good. He successful one. Even Saturday, the got man gets another chance to communi­popular poobah had to fight against cate with cows, and Mooney had to overwhelming odds. To start with, all the flame. cows were in the shelter when Mooney The announcer was crestfallen when he first made his appearance. Normally, of carne back, and drove in silence far, far course, the sound of the announcer's away from the idyllic spot where man melodious voice would be enough to and nature had once been one. There, in seduce the heifers away from whatever the cowpastures of St. Mary's, what could activity was going un in there, but this have been man's or at least WSND's time Moom:y was mooing into the wind greatest triumph lay barren. In its place; and competing against· a craze. To moosing, mindless cows, who, unlike the 
and into some cow manmc. Mooney was Mooney tried a different attack. He got 
compound the difficulties, the wind blew rest of ~ooney's listeners, will never be 
not only forced to vault the barbed wire out and bellowed from afar. No good. He 
the garish ydlow hat that Mooney able to call in with their questions. 
and get the hat hut to hold the hat in his got close to the barbed wire and pleaded
custcmaril:t wears over the barbed wire Udderly fantastic. hand for the rest of the afternoon. in the language of the cows. Nothing. It 
Mike Kelly 



The Model United Nations 

"We, the peoples of the United Nations, determined to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war. .." 
The preamble to the Charter of the 
United Nations hegins with the above 
words. It is clear that in the two decades 
of the United Nations' existence the 
l!Ucceeding generations have not been 
spared the scourge of war. 
It was to understand why the U.N. has not been the success it should have been that last year l talked with outgoing Academic Commissioner John Mroz about reviving the Model United Nations. Supported by the new Commissioner Pat Dowdall and later Pat McDonough, the Model U.N. quickly come together. Executive Co-ordinator and Delegate Director respedively. The Greg Turza was appointed !USB Co-ordinator and Maureen Phillips SMC Co-ordinator while Torn McGowan handled the block and committee meetings, Joe Polito the physical arrangements for Stepan Center and James Krumme kept watch on the money. Although we were to be helped by dozens of other people as time went on and the actual dates for the UN approached, it was this inner core that would he responsible for making the Model UN a reality. I cannot thank them enough for it. 
I arrived hack at Notre Dame the 
evening bt:fore the first session (having 
been on a USO Tour with John Hurley, 
Warren Bowles and Phil Glotzbach for 
two weeks) to find that, with the 
exct:ption of publicity, everything was 
ready to go. 
The news coverage of the four sessions of the Model UN seemed to stress the levity of the sessions and, I suppose in to deadlines, covered only the first hour of the two five hour evening sessions in which most of the acti:on occured. In 
order to make up for that I'll give a brief recapitulation of what occurred. 
Intervention condemned 
The resolution submitted by Mexico, Uruguay and El Salvador condemning the intervention in the internal affairs of any nation was burdened by its citing of examples. Although the samples condemned both sides in the cold war rather than pacifying both sides with condemnation of their eneimies this brought both the West and the Communist nations down on it, beating a Latin American-African alliance and the resolution was defeated. 
America taxed 
Nicaragua submitted a resolution calling on all nations with per capita incomes of over $2,500 to donate I% of their Gross National Product to the UN for welfare projects. This was passed over the strenuous objections of the American and Kuwait delegations (the only two nations effected.) 
Iraq placed in a resolution calling for the withdrawal of United Nations forces from Korea and the enforced reunification of North and South Korea The West rallied to beat down this motion. 
Rhodesia condemned The Byelorussian SSR, one of two USSR states gran ted rnern hership knin the UN, submitted a resolution condemning nations who traded with the lan Smith regime in Rhodesia. Although the Republic of South Africa attempted to defend the Smith government, the battle raged over naming certain nations as trading with Rhodesia. To be more specific, the Arab states and the Soviet bloc took this opportunity to continue their attack on Israel. Over the opposition of the West, the Rhodesia motion passed. Then came the Albanian resolution on the expulsion of China and replacing it with the People's Republic of China (i.e. the Red Chinese). This motion was amended by Luxembourg to admit Red 

China as representative of China and keep the Chiang Kai-Shek representative as Taiwan. The Luxembourg amendment passed over the vocal opposition of the Red Chinese delegation (Howard Dooley and Joel Connelly) which had been granted speaking rights by the President of the Assembly. The amended motion then passed and Red China was seated in the United Nations. 
This was followed by another Albanian resolution censuring South Africa for their aparthied polocies. South Africa strenuously defended itself with facts on their paternalistic protection of the blacks in South Africa (South African delegate Bo Walton stated that South Africa had more black children in school than any other African nation) but the morality of the situation carried the day and over the opposition of only a handful of nations (South Africa, Spain, Portugal, etc.) the mation of condemnation was passed. 
The South African question again came up with another Albanian resolution demanding freedom for the South African administered UN trust territory of Namibia (South-West Africa). But the question was quickly turned away from 
Africa by an amendment including a condemnation of Israel (the Arabs and Communist nations missed little opportunity to attack Israel) and the counter amendment from Israel attacking the ARa·bs. Finally-the chair ruled all amendments out of order and the assembly returned to the question of 
Namibia and the motion passed. 
A Byelorussian motion to condemn the USA for its policy of inrervention in Laos was amended to include a condemnation of North Vietnam for intervention in Laos, Cambodia and South Vietnam. This amendment brought both American and Soviet opposition, but the amended motion passed easily. 
Israelis win 

t<inally the assembly turned to the Middle East question after skirting it throughout the entire four sessions. The lraai resolution on the settlement of the 
Pa.lenstinian Refugee proglem set off the most bitter and extended debate of the session. The Israeli delegation, led by Rick · Libowitz and Dan Tarnir, denounced the Arab nations for refusing to live in peace with Israel while the Arab nations led by Paul Said of Lebanon, Rich Hunter of Poland and Anne Marie Trdcey of the UAR, blasted what they called Israeli imperialism. 
The deb"te ended with a victory for Israel and the defeat of the Refugee resolution. 
Arabs win 

However, the refugee problem served as only a forerunner to a more direct condemnation of Israel in a Iraqi motion condemning Israel for attacking her neighbors. Emotions ran high and Secretary-General Mike Kendall was twice called in to explain past United Nations policy. This debate resulted in a victory :'or the Arabs. 
The 1970 Model United Nations came 
to a close at midnight, just as the Stepan 
Center staff was trying to close the doors. 
As I went over to the Kuwait delegation 
to gratefully accept a glass of wine which 
they had offered earlier, I recalled what I 
had said at the opening of the first 
session. 

We cannot understand what draws us 
together until we understand what pulls 
us apart. 

Afterwards, standing with the delegates who had moments before been screaming insults at each other and who were not laughing and sharing a glass of wine, I felt 
that -for those who were there at lilY 
rate -the Model UN hao helped pull us 
together. 
MONDAY, APRIL 13, 1970

PAGE 6 
f 

~ 
I 
I 
Government majors to oppose restriction
I 
by Ed Ellis 
A small group of govern­ment majors met last night to organize their opposition to Administration spending policies which they blame for last week's 
restriction  of  courses  in  the  
Government  department  to  
Government majors alone.  

The group's leader, Charlie Zappala, said that the statement of the gourp would be taken to the Administration either Mon­day or Tuesday, and if no reaction is forthcoming, Father Hesburgh would later be approae hed for assistance in the matter. Zappala also hoped that· large numbers of students, when they became aware of the situation, would support the actions taken so far by his group. 
According to Zappala, the action of the government faculty last week and the government majors last night is the culmina­tion of several months of activity to try to alleviate conditions in the department. In 1960, he noted, there were 87 government students, including majors and graduate students, 
and there were 7 teachers for tms group. ln 1Y69, however, the department had to serve .685 students with only 15 faculty members, 5 of whom were not full-time professors. Zappala said that een if the 345 government majors is taken as a base, the student-teacher ratio is over 25-1, whereas the ratio for the University as a whole is only 7-l. He stated, "The University pub­lishes in its catalogue that they have a 7-1 ratio and we pay $3300 a year for this close personal contact. In government, its over 25-l. It's about time something was done about this." According to Zappala, the closing of courses to non-govern­ment majors was a move "abhor­rent to faculty members and students alike." He said that Mr. 
Brinkley, head of the depart­ment, had tried to bring the plight of the department to the attention of the administration as long as 3 months agO"but had received no answers whatsoever. Having failed tto bring the matter to the attention of the administrators by conventional means, the faculty, supported by the stvdents, decided to take the "drastic" action of closing the courses. 
As to the effect this move has had on the Administration, Zap­pala stated, "I don't think the realization that kids aren't going to be able to take government courses has really bhit the Administration." He hoped the people in control would act before course registration, so that if more money was available for the department, students couuuld be admitted into the ~ourses in question. He doubted, however, that the Administra­tion would yield to his group's 

demands. because of "the, various problems they have. This was the situation he is trying to correct. He stated that any such restriction of course choice is "an absolute insult to the acaQemic system which makes it necessary.' He criti­cized heavily current University priorities that restrict spending in the College of Arts and Letters even though that is by far the largest growing sector of 
the UUniversity Community. 
Zappala hopes that such 
"blatant undermining of th1e 
philosophy of the University.' 
will arouse a large number of 
students who will be affected by 
the restriction policy. 
support materializes, 
Asked about Fr. Hesburgh's position at pre­sent, Zappala said, "I don't even think he knows about it." 

Redefinition of functions is only change 
(continued from PaKe 1I 
University's administrative struc­
ture. 
Miss Grabowski was the first 
to speak. She stressed .the fact ·that the Nutting for President Movement was not "an anti­
Hesburgh campaign." 
She later commented: "We 
thought that was very important 
to.emphasize, and said so at the 
very beginning to make sure 
they didn't get the wrong 
impression." 
She made clear that-the office 
of President has too much work 
for just one man, describing as 
"important" Hesburgh 's many 
activities. 
According to MissGrabowski, 
student Ken Guentert spoke 
next on the personal attributes 
of Professor Nutting and Father 
Hesburgh. "Their personalities 
would fit this particular struc­
ture so well that it would really 
work," said Karen, paraphrasing 
Guentert. 
Jack Shaeffer next explained 
his reasons for joining the 
movement. Karen said that 
Shaeffer stated he had joined 
because of "the academic reform 
that Doctor Nutting symbo­
lizes." 
Shaeffer described the current 
system as "a job-getting process" 
where the diploma was simply 
"redeemable for cash." He cited 
that the grade has often become 
more important than the learn­
ing process, and called for a shift 
in emphasis toward learning. 
Jim Bryan, the next to speak, incident as an example of the need for a full-time Pre~ident. Fiala said the group had un­successfully tried to contact Hesburgh for three months, and that positive action was taken to save the Fieldhouse only when Hesburgh returned-two days be­fore the scheduled demolition. 

Mike Shaughnessey wrapped up the student presentations claiming that there were two Notre Dames. Karen recalled that he referred to the Trustees as the "corporation Notre Dame" and to the "everyday" Notre Dame as the "community Notre Dame." 
He described the community as incomplete, where frustration with the present kind of educa­tion leads students to "get drunk 

every  weekend."  He  said  the  
President-Chance llor  structure  
would  change  the  type  of  


Experiment 
(continued from page 1) 

Another important proposal concerning grades is the estab­lishment of a trial "pass-fail" option. Under this program any junior or senior undergraduate may choose to take one elective, non-major course per semester on a pass-fail basis. 
When asked if he thought the new program would work, Father Walsh replied: 
"From the logistics point of view it ought to work. Whether it will actually encourage stu­dents to take a course that they would like to take just for the intellectual excitement and value of itself, without fear of getting a low mark-whether that will actually happen only experience will tell. But certainly this is one of the reasons we established pass-fail," he said. 
Walsh went on to say that pass-fail has been tried in other universities with mixed results­in some cases it has been abandoned, he said. 
One resolution of the Council recommends expansion of the counselling services to include not only better centralization but also the development of informal faculty-student meeting places "where spontaneous ad-
We Want You To Join Our Church As An 

Ordained Minister 
And Have The Rank Of 

Doctor of Divinity 
We are a non-structured fa1th, undenominational, with no traditional doctrine or dogma. Our fast 
growing church is actively seeking new ministers who believe what we believe; All men are entitled to their own convictions; To seek truth their own way, whatever it may be, no questions asked. As a 
minister of the church, you may: 
1. 
Start your own <fhurch and apply for ex­emption from property and other taxes. 

2. 
Perform niarriages, baptism, funer,ds and all other ministerial functions. 

3. 
Enjoy reduced rates from some modes of transportation, some theaters, stores, hotels, etc. 

4. 
Seek draft exemption as one of our work 


ing missionaries. We will tell you how. Enclose a free wilt donation for the Minister's credentials and license. We also issue Doctor of Divinity Degrees. We are State Chartered and your ordination is recognized in all 50 states and most foreign countries. FREE LIFE CHURCH­
BOX 4039, HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33023. 

education and help improve the fessor Nutting's reactions to the present situation. entire campaign, Karen Grabow· 
Karen described the attitude ski said he was overwhelmed,. of the Student Affairs Commi­calling it "the highest compli­ttee as "just excellent." She said ment ever payed to him--ever." that Chairman of the Commit­Karen said that Professor tee, Doctor Thomas Carney, was Nutting was not actively pursu-· "concerned" and "interested", ing the Presidency saying an but he had said that a separation ideal politician should never seek of the movt<ment for a Presi­office, but he has never dis·· dent-Chancellor structure and couraged the student campaign the Nutting for President Move­calling it the "most fun he has ment would have been prefer­had in years." He said the able. campaign was a good opportuni· 
However Guenter countered, ty to discuss matters that had to saying that although a 'structure be discussed concerning the might look good on paper, it was quality of education at Notre necessary to choose personalities Dame. Karen said "He thinks that would make it work. that if this campaign helps Carney also advocated a modi­people to think about that, it's fication of the present Presi­worth while." dent-Vice President system to Karen went on to say that provide for a better distribution Doctor Nutting has been willing of responsibilities. to speak whenever asked, When asked to describe Pro-



with pass-fail plan 
vising will more often occur." 
Another proposal includes the possibility that the colleges est· ablish programs to permit sen­iors to teach classes to freshmen in a mutually beneficial process. 
"Teaching is sometimes re­garded as one of the • liberal arts-the art of reaching. In order for a student to get a liberal arts education one thing he ought to do is teach," said Father Walsh. 
In :. long awaited move one resolution halved the university undergraduate requirement of Theology and Philosophy to six hours each. 
Walsh explained that this was done "not with any idea at all of diminishing their importance, but simply as a way of making it p~ssible for the Theology and Philosophy departments to con­centrate their efforts on a fewer number of courses and hopefully make them more exciting for the student." 
The report also proposes that the curriculum include a number of "core" courses "to unify the student academic experience and to provide a distinctive commu­nity of discourse." According to Father Walsh these courses would be those that all students. 
Summer Jobs 
How hard can you work? Earn $2000 to $6000 Call Chas 7604 


Month of May 
A vai!able for May 4 4 bedroom house sleeps 10 fireplace private beach on Lake Michigan near Warren Dunes State Park 
Call Mr. Christiansen: DAYS, Niles 683-5300; EVENINGS. WEEK­ENDS, (616) 426·4174 
no matter which college they belong to, would be required to take. 
In other important resolutions the Academic Council endorsed! the establishment of work-study programs in the colleges to, as Father Walsh phrased it, "vital­ize and make contemporary the educational experience." 
They also gave high priority to the continuation and expan­sion of the International Pro­gram and to the increased use of modern educational media for 
the  improvement  of  teaching  
techniques.  
Bill  Locke,  former  Student  

Union Academic Affairs Com­missioner, voiced a distinct dis­appointment with the Academic Council's resolutions after hav­ing worked on the Curriculum Revision Committee since last spring. 
"The curriculum revision ef­fort effected some structural changes which are, one must admit, desirabl.e (largely in a better-than-nothing sense), but hardly adequate. The final pro· posals, when one considers the many professional educators involved in their formulation and con:oideration, are embarras­singly unimaginative, derivative and superficial," he said. 
The new Academic Affairs Commissioner, Bill Wilka, said that in the next two weeks he and his assistant, Boh Meyers, will be collecting background information on curriculum revi· sion and will be drawing up a list of priorities for next year. 
"The thing we're specifically interested in right now is the counselling-more individual at­tention to students. Also we want to look into the idea of a person taking a comprehensive examination at the beginning of a semester and just getting "pass" credit in it rather than having to take the course," said Wilka. 

Nominations Are  stressed the importance of hav­ing a teacher as president. Karen  
Now Open For Next Year's  ,said Bryan called for a re­defining of the role of president  
ST. LOUIS CLUB  saying "The highest authority around here should have much  
Offices  more contact with students, especially in a classroom situa­ 
-SMC Girls eligible also  tion. Karen said "A teacher has the  
-Offices open are: Pres., V.P.,  capacity to help somebody come  
Sec-Tres., & Social Chairman  to...understand other ways of living, other w~s of doing  
Send Name & Office desired to:  things," paraphrasing Bryan. Jack Fiala eX'plained that he  
Frank Vatterott  joined the movement because of  
330 H.C. 3202  an idolization of Doctor Nutt­ 
or Jim Kearns 414 Walsh 8144  ing, and thinks that the structure change is what is most needed. Miss Grabowski said that Fiala used the recent Field-House  
WHERE THE BOYS ARE, (AND GIRLS) FORT LAUDERDALE, FLA. 100 DAYS OF SUMMER-Aslow As (Memorial Day-Labor Day) $159.00 1 B.R. Apt (Sleeps 4·5) -$795.0~ Efficiencies (Sleeps 3-4) ­$695.00 Motel Rooms (Sleeps 2-3) $495.00A II facilities within 25% Deposit Confirms 1 BLOCK OF BEACH with ReservationsPool and Air Conditioning CORAL SEAS. INC. c/o Retreat Apartments 2916 Bayshore Drive Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 3304 PH. (305-524·4202)  

MONDAY, APRIL 13, 1970

PAGE 7 

THE OBSERfiER. 

Law and order breaks down 
Maddox threatens martial law 
ATLANTA ( UPI) Gov. Lester Maddox moved more stat~: troopers into Ludowid Sunday and threatened to de­dare martial law in the south <leorg.ia city after nightriders firl'li into the horne of a crime fighting minister. 
''I would be cautious but I wouldn't hesitate a minute in declaring martial law in Long County if the safety of the people was at stake," the govern­or said of the latest development in his continuing feud with Ludowici and Long County political leaders. 
"This would require us to take over the local government and the law enforcement machi­nery," the governor added. "Law and order has broken down in Long County." 
The threat came after Rev. Raymond Cook, a Methodist Church minister who had led courthouse demonstrations against the "totally corrupt" political establishment of Long County, called Maddox by tete-

Fun and games are over 



Kirk in showdown 
BRANDENTON, Fla. UPI-called for massive cross busing 
Gov. Claude Kirk planned to that would take some children announce Sunday evening to schools I 2 miles from their whether he will back down or homes. have a showdown on federal The plan Krentzman approved court orders to desegregate Man-would affect some 2,700 ele­atee County schools on Monday. mentary school students and 
"The fun and games are I 07 teachers. The country's h_igh 
over," said U.S. Marchal AI sch~ols_ were _desegregated with-
Butler Saturday after federal out ~ncJden_t f1ve years ago. . . 
Judge Ben Krentzman ruled Kirk . Kirk_ cla1m~d forced busmg IS 
was in contempt of court for •llegal In Flonda, took personal 
refusing to desegregate command of the Manatee 
Manatee's 12 elementary schools schools at dawn Monday and 
last week. ?emanded an immediate hear-
J'he desegregation plan Kirk mg before the U.S. Supreme 
personally blocked last week Court. 
This is the third in a jil•e-part series written hy the Nutting for President Headquarters. 
As we emphasized at the beginning, this paper will at­tempt to address the re-structur­ing issue in a way that avoids the discussion (or question) of the personalities of the recom­mended office-holders. 
If our proposal is adopted, the University administrative struc­ture will be altered in only one fundamental way: there will be a redefinition of the office of President. and the creation of the post of Chancellor, a posi­tion which will be the highest appointed administrative post. 
To be in a position to understand the nature of the 
. revision, we must first embark 
on a brief digression: Why do we 
need this restructuring? 
We have already attempted to answer this question in our first series of position papers (Feb. 25 -March 4 Observer; xeroxed copies available for $.35 from Box 813, St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556), but in 
a  "25  words  or  less  type  of  
answer":  We  feel  the duties of  
the  Presidency  as  it  now  exists  

are physically too great for one man. Secondly there now exists a lack of real communication between the highest decision­making levels and the students and faculty, due in large measure to the current administrative framework. 
We will return to how the Chancellor-President proposal is an improvement in these areas shortly. First, we present a more specific outline of the new structure. The only change we are proposing is a redefinition of the functions, responsibilities, and duties of the President. One could legitimately view this as abolishing the office of President and replacing it with a bi-partite 
hoard, with the two hoard members given precise and 
equally significant responsibi­
lities. 
Many have advocated a radical restructuring of the administra­tive bureaucracy beneath the President, while others have contended that this structure "suits me fine." Whatever the case may be, we are not proposing the revision of other various lower-level (vice­president, etc.) administrative positions or the replacement of the current administrative office holders. 
The new structure may neces­sitate the re-assignment of the current President's secretaries and assistants, as secretaries and assistants to the Chancellor, but definitely it will not require the replacement or redefinition of the Vice-Presidents. 
The Chancellor-President structure is a logical outgrowth of Rourke and Brook's observa­tion: 
... universities like other organ­izations have found it necessary once they reach an advanced stage to establish systems of governance in which the chief executive shares authority over decision making with other officials. The range of subjects over which decision must now range is so vast as to demand the advantages of division oflabor ... 
(p.l/1). 
The division of labor which is proposed here will make the Chancellor responsible for the "external" affairs of the Univer­sity and the President respon­sible for the "internal" affairs, while all matters of overlapping concern will be dealt with jointly. 
Is the distinction external­internal valid for describing the functions of a University Chan­cellor and President'!: 
It is quite common to find those who speak most frequent­ly on University governance using the expression "external" and "internal" in describing the functions of University adminis­phone shortly after 3 a.m. Sunday to report the shooting. 
Cook said buckshot shattered a kitchen window and lodged in the wall and ceiling after he got up and turned on a light to get a 
drink of water.  He  had  just  
walked  hy  the  window,  he  
added.  


"I suppose this shooting has resulted from some of our attempts to dear up the cancer­ous elements in Long County that have given GtiDrgia such a had name," Maddox said. 
"I have reason to believe that this is a reaction from our program to straighten out the 
county." 
Ludowici, on U.S. highways 301 and 82, has long had a rep uta lion for harboring speed traps and clip joints used to fleece motorists from New York and other eastern points on their way to Florida. 

AISEC extends membership 
by Mark Day 
Ilea ding in a new directionn, AIESEC, an international organi­zation that places students in overseas jobs, is extending its membership to include non­business majors and is promising greater selectivity in its job placements. 
This organization. especially here on campus, is encouraging all interested students to investigate the summer program, originally limited to business or economics majors. The reason for this change is that the organization is 
broadening  its  program  to  in­ 
clude  jobs  in  many  different  
companies,  which  will  develop  

management skills as well as providing good business exper­ience for the participants. 

Students give reason behind 
trators: "It would not be pos­sible, of course, to deal even superficially with all these rela­tions [i.e. those of the Presi­dent I, because one college dif­fers from another. But we can consider briefly some external and internal relationships which are common to most presidents of Catholic colleges." (Stanford, 
A Guide to Catholic College Administration, p. 49). Stanford elaborates by cataloguing the external relations (diocese, alumni, educational associations, . other national organizations, sis­ter institutions, general public) and the internal relations (Board · of Trustees, administrative offi­cers, faculty, students, religious community). 
Using a similar distinction (of external and internal activities) Rourke and Brooks suggest the current state of the University President's duties: "The basic duties with which the chief executive office is charged can range very widely. As in the case of the American university presi­dent, many of his duties center on external rather than internal affairs. He represents the Univer­sity in its contacts with state... 

Joe Loughery, a junior econo­mics major and the head of AIESEC at Notre Dame, recent­ly returned from Tokyo where the international conference took place. At this meeting 4000 students were matched with individual jobs, 70% by com­puter. The remaining 30% were matched by the delegates them­selves, since they found the 
computor  was  not  flexible  
enough  to  cover  all  of  the  
unusual cases.  

There are presently 24 Notre Dame students in the program who wish summer employment abroad. Of these, 20 have already been placed in jobs. After another computerized exchange in Rotterdam in a few weeks, the remaining four N.D. 
students will probably be placed in the jobs. 
The job of AIESEC at Notre Dame goes beyond the placing of N.D. students abroad; it also must line up jobs for foreign students all over Indiana. 
Another important function of the AIESEC group, of which there are 93 members altogether, is the reception of all the forei&n students who come to Indiana. 
Here in South Bend, this committee also arranges gather­ings during the summer at which the foreign student can meet with various members of the community to discuss com­munity problems. Faculty mem­bers, other students, and busi­ness men join with the foreign students to talk on relevant issues facing South Bend, such as urban development, and local government -issues in which 
Applications for Student Government Commissions 
The following commissions need personnel for '70-'71 
HaJJ Life N a tiona1Student Association Public Relations 
Lee Fort 

Steve Novak Don Mooney Human Affairs Research & Development Community Relations 
Orlando Rodriquez  Tim Connor  Dave Schmidt  
Off-Campus  R ecru itm ent Act ion ProJl:ram  Academit· Affairs  
Jerry O'Conner  ·  W~t Williams  Bill Wilka  

Include Name, Address, and Phone along with ideas on the commission and your role in it, addressed to the 
• 

appropriate commissioner. 
Student Government Office Box 522 Notre Dame 
• hopefully the foreign student

campaign~an 
get inter~sted_ and len<! an 1mpartial outside view. !"here will be a membership drive beginning in a few weeks,
and other public organizatiOns 
with an open meeting for all
concerned with higher education 
interested on April 22 in the
and the universities. He must 
Librarv Auditorium.

For Thur. 8 pm Sat. 2 pm ~un. 6 pm 
Only $1.25 tix Remain (Reg. $2.501 

For full price shows some $4.5 $2.50 tix remain · 
MONDAY, APRIL 13, 1970 

THI OMIRJIIB.

PAGE 8 
Irish baseball team drops two more 
canceled those plans as the

by Jim Donaldson the sfason. 
umpires called a halt to play

Observer Sportswriter B~wling Green scored~all the 
after 5V2 innings of the first

Chilled by low temperatures runs \they needed in Friday's 
game, with Bowling Green lead­

and a biting wind the Notre game in the first inning, tagging 
ing 5-0. The Irish were having

Dame baseball team was unable Irish starter Ron Schmitz for 
trouble once again solving the

to get its bats out of a deep three tallies. The Falcons 
Falcons hurling and rapped only

freeze, and dropped a pair of coasted thereafter as the Irish six hits. 
games this weekend at Bowling were able to collect just three 
Bowling Green scored a pair

Green, Ohio, bowing 9-2 to the hits. Schmitz suffered the loss in 
of runs in the first inning thanks

Falcons on Friday and losing an the 9-2 decision. 
to some fielding boots by the

abbreviated 5V2 inning game on The clubs were scheduled to 
Irish. Two hits and a pair of

Saturday, 5-0. The Irish record play a pair of seven inning games errors did in the Irish and pinned
now stands at a dismal 1-7 for on Saturday but foul weather the loss on ND starter Mike Karkut. The Falcons added three insurance runs in the third stanza on a trio of safeties. 
The weekend turned out to be 

one Irish coach Jake Kline would just as soon forget. Notre Dame dosed fast last ~-:!:~:··=~! ~:~:r ~==~~=~=~== .~:~:· .·~:~:~:~.~=~·:~:~: ::;~!=~=~· ~=;~.~~~,·-:~-:~:~:~: ·:·: ·.·..:..: After One Week season, winning six of their final seven games to post a 14-l 0 
The Irish Eye 
After a week of fairly warm weather to open spring football drills, 
record, but overall improvement

the Irish were forced to play their firsUull scrimmage in a light mist 
must be forthcoming if the Irish

of rain coupled with rather cold temperatures. . . 
are to make a similar surge this

Both first teams (offense and defense) were rather impressive m year.
their spring debut. There were a number of changes occurring in the 
The Irish, who have yet to

starting offense. 
play their first home game, will

Tom Gatewood was at split end (he made a nifty grab of one pass 
remain on the road for three

during the first drive of the game for the blue-clad first. t~am.) On 
more games this week, traveling

the other side of the line was a familiar face at a new pos1t1on. ~ary 
to Michigan D. -on Tuesday,

Kos has shifted from guard to tight end for the present. He prov1des Irish first baseman BiU Orga, the club's leadinl! hitter in '69 with ~
Detroit U. on Wednesday, and

tremendous blocking skills from this angle but he is untested as a .515 batting average who also posted a 1.000 fielding per~entage, ts
Western Michigan on Friday

receiver. Notre Dame's chief hope to lead the squad out of the bat~mg slump
before playing their home

Of course, there had to be two new tackles on the offensive line. and fielding miscues that plagued them this past weekend m the pa1r
opener Saturday against Western 

John Dampeer and George Rankin, both sophomores at present, of losses at Bowling Green. 
Michigan.

filled these positions and they performed creditably during the opening drive of the afternoon. Moving in for Kos at one guard spot was Tim Zuber, also a sophomore. If he can come through with a good season then no 



Golfers lacking practice
doubt the Irish are set at this position. What this means is that the other guard is manned by co-captain Larry DiNardo, who is very possily the finest at this position in the country. The backs teams at the tournament had play as well as individuals who
The Notre Dame golf team

continually ran through Larry's spot and most times the results were their golf courses open all have played 50 rounds sin~e.
finished among the last three

devastating. . winter, but ours didn't open till November, compared to our
teams in Ohio State's Bob

Dan Novakov still another soph, has taken over for the graduatmg Thursday. It is very difficult to eight."
Kepler Inviational, as Indiana

Mike Oriard at ~enter. An indication of Novakov's ability might be 
took the title in the weekend

that Oriard himself was wary of the aggressive second year man's tourney.
drive to attain a first team status by the end of last season. 
Lacrosse '8' wins
Cincinnati and Ball State were

The backfield was not quite as set as the line for starting 
still on the course when the Irish

positions. Denny Allan ran very hard in this first big workout of the The Lacrosse "B" team beat successfully contained the few
began their return trip, so the · Wayne State Saturday 7-3 be­
year and he should be able to retain his first string status for next threats among the Wayne State 
exact results are not certain, but hind Stephan Center. N.D. never
season. The other half-back position is not as certain. Ed Gulyas and attackers and cleared the ball
the 12 teams who were already trailed as they closed out the
Jim Yoder are battling hard to grab hold of this position. The men exceptionally well. Offensively,
in the clubhouse all finished 

first half ahead 4-2. The Irish
on the defensive line of the third team hopes that this is decided midfielder Jim Lepley scored
ahead of ND. stickmen increased their margin
soon because both are running with abandon each time their play is two goals and attackman Dave
The 54 hole tourney was 

to 7-2 in the second half and
called and this provides a sufficient number of bruises for the boys J urusik also tallied twice but the on the line. played Friday and Saturday, Wayne State tallied a last goal team scoring honors went to Bill
with each participant playing 27 late in the third period to
Bill Barz has returned at fullback for the time being and he carried Dacey who scored three times
each day. The best five indivi­account for the 7-3 final score. 
a number of times getting his first Lacrosse "hat
for good yardage. He still has that knack for 
dual totals on each time were 
The "B" squad composed

getting the crucial short yardage. trick".
added together for the team entirely of freshmen and sopho­team was
Then, of course at quarterback was Joe Theisman. Joe the Jet The "A" idle over 
score. Indiana had 1152 strokes, 

mores have never lost in their 
the weekend but they workedfollowed by Ohio State with brief history. Several playersdidn't throw much but he never really had to. He mixed plays well 
during the drives and when he did throw he was accurate. On a few out Sunday to start .the week's occasions when his receivers were covered, Theisman scrambled 1161 Miami with 1170, and who helped to continue this preparations for what could turn
Purd~e with 1171. Notre Dame streak were defensemen Walt
effectively and picked up a few first downs . out to be the toughest match of 
totaled 1237. Brandt, Tim Baker, and Bill
The starting defense was equally impressive and like the offense the season against Denison this 
Wayne McDonald of Indiana Foley along with outstanding
they included a number of new faces. Saturday at Denison. 
was medalist with 2223, an goalie Jim Roller. This groupThe lone returnee in the line was Fred Swendsen at end. Bob 
average of 74.3 strokes per 18

Neidert played the other end. Neidert's quickness can be utilized 
holes. Bob Wilson was Notre

better from this angle than at linebacker, his usual position. He also 
Dame's best with 243. Bill 


MAJOR LEAGUES
possesses enough strength to handle many good tackles. Walt 
Cvengros totaled 245, and Mike

Patulski is recovering from an injury so he did not play:' National League American League
LaFrance had a 246. Bob Bat­

East East
There were a pair of new tackles in assistant coach George Kelly's 
taglia carded a 249 for ND, and line. They were Greg Marx and Mike Zikas. Zikas played a good deal 
Jim Dunn and Martin Best w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GBlast year when Mike Kadish was injured. Marx was supposed to start St. 3 2 .600
totaled 255 and 258, respective­Louis Baltimore 5 1 .823 at this position last season before receiving an injury that knocked New York 3 2 .600
ly. l;)etroit 3 3 .500 2 him out of action for the season. Father Clarence Durbin, golf Philadelphia 3 2 .600 Boston 2 3 .400 2% In the skilled positions (linebackers) there was a pleasing blend of coach attributed the failure to Pittsburgh 3 2 .600 New York 2 3 .400 2% Montreal 2 4 .333 1y,
veterans and new blood. One veteran sure to be tough is the other l~ck of facilities Washington 2 3 .400 2%
the practice 
Chicago 1 3 .250 1%

co-captain Tim Kelly. Kelly will team with John Raterman as ,t~e during the winter. "Most of the Cleveland 2 4 .333 3 two "old men" of the linebacking crew. Rich Thomann and Enc West West Patton are the other men behind the line. Both are agressive ':hard w L Pet. GB 
Cincinnati 6 2 .750 

California 4 0 1000
hitters" who have good size. Jim Wright will be giving them 
Master tie 
Atlanta 3 2 .600 w. 

Minnesota 3 0 1000
competition to keep their starting jobs. . San Fran. 4 3 ,580
• Gene Littler and Billy Casper, 1% Milwaukee 3 3 .500 %In the defensive backfield, where a mistake can often mean ~IX Houston 2 
3 .400 2% Kansas City 2 3 .400 2
who both finished nine under

points for the other guys, there is only one regular in the startmg Los Ang. 2 4 .333 3 
Oakland 1 3
par, will oppose each other this .250 3 
eleven. This of course would be Clarence Ellis. As a soph last season San Diego 2 4 .333 3 
Chicago 5 .167 4
afternoon in an 18 hole playoff

Ellis was nothing short of sensational and more of the s~me can be 
Pittsburgh 3 Philadelphia 1 California 7 Kansas City 5
for the Masters Tournament title

expected for next season. Mike Crotty, a converted runnmg back, IS 
Montreal 2 Chicago 0 Oakland Minnesota ppd. rain
in August<\, Georgia, 

being tried at defensive halfback. He is rather short (the program New York 6 Milwaukee 5·16
St. Louis 4 Chicago 2·2
Gary Player native of South

lists him at 5 ft. I 0 in.) and this presents somewpat of a problem. Houston 8 Atlanta 3 Detroit 7 Baltimore 2
Africa almost forced a three way

Another former offensive threat is now on the defensive unit. Tom Los Angeles 6 San Diego 0 Washington 6 Boston 5 
playoff for the championship

Eaton is not short and being a former receiver he should have a Cincinnati 6·5 San Francisco 5-2 Cleveland 2-4 New York 1·5 
golf's most ptestigious tourney

good idea of what the man he is covering is going to do. 
but missed a five foot putt for a

Another notable change is that John Cieszkowski has been 
birdie, settling for a par and

switched to defense. "Cisco" was the highly touted fullback of last third place in the tourney.
season who was injured for most of the campaign. . 
Casper could have made the

It should be noted that this was, of course, only a spnng playoff unnecessary but he too
scrimmage and many of these positions might b_e comp~etely suffered putting problems on the
switched by next fall. But after the first week of dnlls, th1s IS the eighteenth green.
way things looked. 








