.----------------------------------------------------------­
Terrorist hunt continutJ 
Trudeau attends Quebec minister's funeral 
M 0 N TREAL (UPI) Pierre LaPorte, murdered in quiet sub­urban obscurity by social out­casts, was attended in death yes­terday by the leaders of his na­tion, behind an extraordinary wall of security including police dogs, steel fences and rooftop sharpshooters. 
His funeral, strictly private at his widow's request, turned out to be almost a state funeral in all but name. 
Prime Minister Pierre Tru­deau, reportedly ignoring warn­ings from his own guards, led the parade of Canadian and Quebec officials attending the funeral of Laporte, the Quebec labor · Church-a smaller replica of the minister-slain while a hostage of , famous cathedral in Paris-in the the separatist Front de Libera-heart of Montreal's old French tion du Quebec 'FLQ). Quarter. Celebrants of the fune-
The hunt went on for the ral mass were Cardinal Maurice FLQ terrorists, who still hold Roy, primate of the Roman British Trade Commissioner Catholic Church in Canada, and James R. Cross, kidnapped 15 Montreal Archbishop Paul days ago. Police said that as of Gregoire. yesterday they had made I ,654 Police with dogs scoured the raids, most of them in Montreal, church before the services for and rounded up 334 suspects persons hidden in the building, under the suspensions of civil and checkt•d manholes and sewer liberties granted by the lines in the Place d'Armes in emergency War Powers Act in-front of it. Steel fences were voked by Trudeau. erected in the square to hold 
Laporte's funeral services back the public. were held at Notre Dame Army sharpshooters were posted on rooftops in the neighborhood. Army helicopters fluttered overhead, just above rooftop level, dodging between taller buildings. A 30 block area in the heart of the financial dis­trict was closed to auto traffic. Montreal police, Quebec provin­cial police, Royal Canadian 

Mounted Police and some of the 4,000 moblized army troops in . combat gear ringed the square. l'lainclothes men circulated the 
area. 
Newsmen were barred from 
the funeral and burial at the re­
quest of Laporte's wife, Fran­
coise. She resisted the govern­ments plans for a state funeral for her husband, hailed by offi­cials of the government as a martyr in the cause of Canadian unity. 
Trudeau and some members of his cabinet came by helicop­ter from Ottawa to the funeral. Officials concealed the landing place for security reasons . Parliament adjourned early so about 100 members could attend the ceremonies. Quebec Premier Robert 
(Continued on page 2) 
Vol. V. No.]Q__ 


Union loses TV contract ACC to show Ali fight 
called New York to talk with building (Stepan c~nter), equip­
by Dave McCarthy 
Mike Malitz of Sports Action, ment (screens and projectors), 
According to Student Unicn Inc., that controlled the rights to. and technicians (from WNDU) officials, the closed circuit tele­closed circuit broadcasts of the needed and they were ready to vising of the October 26 non fight. According to Malitz, finalize the deal. 
'title fight between Muhammed "Nothing was finalized" at that According to Malitz, he in­Ali and Jerry Quarry, which will time. He informed the Student formed them at that time that be broadcast in the ACC, may Union of the arrangements the closed circuit rights had been have cost the Union an estima­necessary before closing the contracted to the ACC thru ted $5000 profit. which would deal. "The Clay people"(Bill Margolis, have been used for further stu-.. Student Union called Malitz John Ali, et a!.), his affiliates in dent activities. again on October ? informing Chicago. 
On October 5 Student Union him that they had secured the John Plouff, managing direc­tor of tho.:: ACC noted that he· had contracted with Margolis

SMC urges print fee 
"In late September or early Oct­ober.'' drawn up by the Publications When asked whether he

by Sue Mullin 
Board. The proposal recom­thought there had been a mix up 
At last night's Student Assem­mended charging all students a either between New York or bly meeting Student Body Presi­ten dollar publications fee with Chicago or betweeL StudePt Bob Pohl dent Ann Marie Tracey urged all their tuition. This money would Union and the ACC Malitz said, 
members of the Assembly to go to help finance the Observer, "Neither." He confirmed that he talk to the students in their dis­the Blue Mantle, and the speaks, "almost every day" with tricts about proposed areas of Chimes. the people in Chicaeo, he was un­

Judicial Code settled 
concentration for student gov­According to Miss Gorman, aware of the ACC contract at ernment. these puhlicatons are currently the time of the first call from SBVP Jean Gorman gave a subsidized by the college. Miss the Student Union. 
awaits final approval
preliminary report on the Board Gorman said that by charging Malitz explained that contrac­of Trustees meeting. Miss Gor­the fee the publications may be ting to the ACC rather than the by Bro. Jim Shedlock the plan worked out hy the SLC man outlined the effects of the able to avoid getting into debt student Union was "making a is "fine." Dave Krashna, Student 
revision .of the Off-Campus Poli­and the forced selling of individ­choice between a wholly student The Judicial Code of the Uni­Body President, rejected the Ap­cy made by the board. A final ual copies ot" the publication. operated thing or a general pub­veristy was finally settled at peals Board plan as approved, 
report on the meeting will be Another Assembly member, lic thing." He said that the Monday afternoon's meeting of and therefore, rejected the entire .Nan Albers, said she talked to the Student Life Council. The Judicial Code in a voice vote at
made when the minutes are re­people in the ACC were "profes­leased. the Director of Financial Man­sionals" and added that choosing code passed its final hurdle with Monday's meeting. Valerie Weller, an Assembly agement, Mr. Lindaeur, about the ACC was "business...r the completion of an Appeals The Judicial Code i> to be pre­
am member, reported on the form­having a student sit on the Bud­protecting myself, the fighters, Board plan. Official ratification sented within the w~ek to Fr. ing of a disruption policy. get Finance Committee. Accord­and the promoters in Atlanta­of the code now awaits approval llesburgh. If he approves the 
She said that she had sent in­ing to Miss Albers, Mr. Lindauer the people who have money from Father Heshurgh and the Code, he will then present it to quiries to various colleges con­said he would look into the mat­wrapped up in this." Board of Trustees. the Board of Trustees for final cerning their disruption policies, ter. ·She added that she also re­Malitz explained that he often React ions to the Appeals approval. Fr. Hesburgh is given 
l}uested a copy of the annual ten to fourteen days to act on
but has not yet received any re­has to decide between two or Board jJlan in the Judicial Code sponse. budget of the college and should have . been mixed. Fr. James the Code, according to the rules
(Continued 011 page 3)

have it soon. of the Student Life Council.
Jean Gorman read a proposal Riehle, Dean of Students, thinks With the official approval of the President and the Trustees, the SLC can name members to the
Holy Cross evacuated by bomb score after anonymous tip 
Appeals Board. 
The Code provides for a Uni­The security force then saw to Seidel, rector of Holy Cross, was relationship here. 
by Charlie Myers 
versity Board, an Appeals Board
the evacuation of the Holy Cross one of reflection. Father Seidel Father Seidel said that he 
The one hundred and fifty and local Hall Boards. Hall
residents. By 4:25 a.m. the wondered whether the bomb doesn't think anything is ac­residents of Holy Cross Hall Boards would handle matters
people were allowed to return to scare was due partially to yester­complished by publicity in such braved the cold and rain of early that involved mem hers of a hall
their rooms. An extensive search day's OBSERVER article. (The matters, and that it doesn't helpTuesday morning in response to community. Any actions of a
by the security force turned up article in question reported the the elimination bomb threats bythe threat of a bomb in the nothing. recent influx of a Weatherman publicizing them. student outside a hall would fall building. faction into the South Bend Officer McCormick of the St. into the jurisdiction of the Uni­
Arthur Pears, Director of 
At approximately 3:45 a.m. versity Board.
Notre Dame Security, stated that area.) Mary's security department
the Notre Dame Security Office his office has no clues as to who "The more these things are denied rumors that similar The University Board of 
re~.:eived an anonymous tele­twelve members would hear
placed the call. The office also kept in everyone's eyes, the threats had been made on the 
phone tip to the effect that a has no indication as to the pur­more these things take place," SMC campus. "This (bomb cases involving student acts out­
bomb was to go off in Holy pose of the bomb threat. he speculated. The rector did threat incident) is news to me," side the halls. The Board would Cross Hall at 4 a.m. 
The reaction of Rev. Thomas not rule out a cause and effect he said. (Continued on page 3) 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------.--------------~~ 
Page 2 

r=====================================::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=+:h=;=:=:=:=:=:=:=======:::=====================:=:=========:=================; 

~~~~Roma Pizza Restaurant -lounge ~~l~ 
:jjj Ph. 234·3258 219 N. Mlchla•nilll 
~:~~  Welcomes all NO and SMC Students  
:;:?  Roma, traditionally famous for pizza, chicken (by the pieces) and  
;:;:  Italian-American food, is offering a special delivery service right to  

I~~~~I:~;;~~~~;;n::::::;::~u~::o25 % 
FOLK MUSIC EVERY FRIDAY AND SATUR­DAY. DANCING, BEER, WINE AND LIQUOR SERVED AT REASONABLE PRICES. FAMILY ENTRANCE. YOUR HOST FRANK ANASTA­SIO. 
open Proof Dai~y ofage 
12:45 required 
PAPARAZZI 

~:;: 

I :;:~ ;::: 
THB OBSERrJER. 
LaPorte buried 
(continued from page 1) · 
Bourassa led the men of the pro­vincial government, who worked with Laporte in his rise from crusading journalist to cabinet minister. They helped make the hard decision to resist his kid­napers' ransom demands in ex­change for Laporte's freedom. 
In St. Lambert, the quiet Montreal suburb where Laporte was kidnaped off his front lawn 
by FLQ gunmen, Mayor James 
K. Stewart, tears in his eyes, told a l."ity coucil meeting the street where Laporte lived would be renamed "Laporte Street." 
Police stili worked over the green and white frame hu ngalow in the suburb of St. Hubert, where Laporte was held for a week and then strangled and stabbed through the heart. The bungalow is only l wo miles from Laporte's home, and is within sight of the air force base-used as a staging area for troops airlifted into Montreal-where LaPorte's bloody body was found stuffed in an auto trunk beside a civilian hangar Saturday night. 


Misuse of mailing list provokes dissatisfaction 
There has been growing a dis­satisfaction among Notre Dame 
the Sea -Gull by 
Anton Chekhov 
Washington Hall -Oct. 22, 23, 24 at 8:30 PM 
Tickets $1.50 information :!84-4176 

I''''Our»»;c·oiiege=Insurancel
I Plan offers more 
IBenefits... and service in every state after you have graduated Military service, a career, family and possibly extensive travel await you after graduation. 

You need the broad coverage offered by
:~;~; 

American General's College Insurance 
I ;~;; Plan-and you need the service to go with it. You'll find an American General office always conveniently close in each of the 50 states and in many foreign countries. Ask your campus representa­tive today about American General's full coverage and full service. 
~l~ 
Tifo 
Trevino 
·:·: 

CALLTHESE CAMPUS REPS TODAY Ken Milce 
Bob Provost Hornbeclc Elum Phon.o 2343480
815 E. Lasa]] .o'-'­
. 

BILL RUITER GENERAL MANAGER 
I 
Wednesday, October 21. 1970 

Laporte is carried into Nqtre Dame Church October 20. Laporte was kidnapped and murdered by members of the Front de Liberation du Quebec his body was found in the trunk of a car. (UPI) 
students with the rising amount of junk mail that has begun flowing onto campus. A majori­ty of student opinion seems to blame the Administration for al­lowing the student mailing lists to get into the hands of various record and magazine companies. 
According to Father James Shilts, Assistant Vice President of Student Affairs, it is next to impossible to purchase this list. Nonetheless, five different mail­ing lists have already been pur­chased or authorized. WSN D bought a list of the campus ad­dresses of all students. A list was purchased by Student Govern-. 
ment for the Senate elections and the Class of 1972 applied for a list of all the Juniors. An address list of all the Engineering students was tabulated for The Tech Review and a list of all Ohio student addresses was pur­chased by an Ohio student for 
political use. Recently however a Ten­' .. ' 
nessee student who wished to ac-
quest. The University claims it is 
attempting to reduce the 
amount of junk mail that comes 
onto the campus by enforcing 
this limitation. 
If, however, the authorized 
lists are circulated to outside 
sources, all the University's ef­
forts fail. The only other reason 
for junk mail according to 
Father Shilts is "student practi­
cal jokes." The companies often 
circumvent the obstacles by sim­
ply addressing mail to "Resi­
dent" and assigning arbitrary 
room numbers to the hall names 
they already know. 
But even after breaking through the University's prohibi­live measures, the largest factor working against overloads of junk mail may be the cost. The computer which prints out the list works only for $45 an hour. A mailing list of all University 
students runs through the com­p~ter in about an hour and five mmutes 
· • • 

I 
by the Office of Student Affairs where authorization or rejection Rev. William Toohey, C. S.C., is decided by the Vice President Director of Campus Ministry, an­or Assistant Vice President. nounced today that the Grad­Common practice is to limit uate Program in Liturgical Stu­
these lists to on-campus organi-dies would henceforth sponsor Vespers in Sacred Heart Church
zations or personnel who can . t M d· w d 
.. 1 l"d . f th _ a 7..00 p.m. on on ay, e ­
~K:.:~::~~.:...~<:.:.-::~·:·:·:~;~:~:~.~-.....~:.......·.~-.-.~.:. _. nesday, and Friday, and at 4: 30
:·:·::·:·:· ···-·.·.·-·-·.·-·-·-·-·-·.········"""'·'·······················~·~···~1IM p.m. on Sundays. All members :~l~~~: Attention :~~~:of the Notre Dame community :~:H:; :~:?, a~e-most cordially invited to par­
!.!;!.!.i.!.!.!.! 

Cr•cJ·Students :.=:.:·.f.~. t,...Ic-Ip-at_e·-----~
-quire a list 

of his home state's CampusM1n1strystudents for political reasons was refused. All requests are handled 
Starts Vespers 
; 

;:;:::;:; Those interested in positions;!~; ;:;:;:;~on the following University;!;:: ;:;::;::bodies: ::§ :!:! :;::: -University Forum ~:~ ::r:::: -Student Affairs Subcom-!:!: 
·.;.·:·:~ f :·:·
:::::·:·:Jnittee o the Board of Trustees;:;:;!;!J~: -Student Life Committee of~;: ;:~;::::the Faculty Senate ;:;!. :::::;::: -Graduate Council ;:;::;::?;:;: _ Academic Council ;!;!:
•• .. .. :;:~:~: -Traffic Review Board ~~: ::::;:;: place name in nomination!~'! :H~with resume by 9:00 Friday:;:: :~;~~;~morning in any of the following~;~; ;:;:;:~;four places: P. 0. Box 454,:;:: ;:;:;:;:;Hayes Healy Room 134, Gsu:;:: :t~:~;Office 406 Ad. Bldg. (daily~;~: :::.;:,:::.: I0-4) Grad Students• Mail Box,:::,; 
. . 

:;:;:;!;!in History Dept, c/o Bill Fowler,;:;: ::=;::;::or come to the meeting of the:::: 
.......•. ·.·. 
;:;::;:;:GSU at noon Friday in Library;:;: :~:~:1~~~~-i~~~i-~~--------. _................ J 
Pre-Law Society Indiana -A. 
Dan Tarlock. Assistant Professor 
of Law. lndianaUniversity Law 
School. is scheduling interviews 
for prospective students on Mon­
day, Oct. 26, in Room 205 Busi­
ness Building. Sign-ups outside 
101
Room O'Shaughnessy. PRE-LA S Cl TY Duke University John C. Weistart, Assistant Pro­
fessor of Law, Duke University
Law School, is scheduling inter­
views for prospective students on 
Oct. 22 in Room 205 Business 
Bldg. 
Sign up for appointments out-
si.de,..Bo.QDL.] 01 O'Shau.Wn~,. 
The Observer is published daily 
during the college semester except 
vacations by the students of the 
University of Notre oame and st. Mary's College. Subscriptions may
be purchased for $8 from The 
Observer, Box 11, Notre oame, 
~~?d.~;t~:-0~~~.n~~~a~~5o~~age

:::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:=:~:~:~:~:~:::::~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!:::::::::~:::::~:::!:::::::::~:~:::::~=~=~=~=~=~=~:::~:::~:::::::~:::::::::::::::: ·=·.-·!·:·:·:,:·:·:·:~:·:·:~=~=~=~=~=~=~:::~::.:::::.:·:·:·:·:·!·!·!·!·!·!·:·:·:·:·:·.•:· ..,_;._..;...____..;.;,.;...;;;....;.;..;.;._.,~ 


Wednesday, October 21, 1910 
THE O.&r£Rfi£R Page3 
Judicial Code awaits ratification 
(continued from page 1) 
be represented by five student members and three faculty mem­bers, with the students rotating in each case. 
Cases brought before the Uni­versity Board may be appealed to the tri-partite Appeals Board. Consisting of three members, the Appeals Board would represent students, faculty and administra­tion. Named by the SLC, the Board would handle appeals made by the students. Further appeal may be made to the President of the University if the student did not find the decision satisfactory or found that his 
SM C names speakers Sen. Muskie heads list 
by Kathy Kersten 
A list of possible graduation speake~ has been submitted to the SMC Administration Council by Brenda Oates, graduatio"n chairman. The council will con­tact the candidates in order of preference until an acceptance is received. 
Early in September a letter requesting suggestions for the position of speaker was sent to SMC seniors, faculty, and admin­istration. A list of the ,previon year's choices was included -t-o give an idea of the range of fields to be considered. 
When the letters were re­turned, results were compiled with three votes given for first choice, two for second, and one for third. The Academic Affairs 
Rossini reelected to AUA post 
Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, vice president of research and spon­
sored programs at the University .QWR8811i1118111181188i3[Cllllll!188!1:8ll8~toilll 
of Notre Dame, has been reelect-I ed vice president of the Board of' Trustees of Argonne Universities·~· Association (AU A). : 
Rossini has served on the~ Board of Trustees since 1966 ;~
, •• fl. 

and as vice president since 1968. ;:;! He is also a member of the;:~ AUA's Committee on Education:;~ and chairman of their Commit-;;:; tee on Environmental Studies :;:; 
Rossini recently won .the:;:; Priestley Medal, the highest a-~;~; ward of the American Chemical;:;: Society ( ACS), for his research;:;: in thermochemistry, the chem-:~;~ istry of petroleum and hydro-:;:; carbons, and the assembling of:;:; numerical data for science and ::;: technology~ He· hods· also ~earned:~;~ the William H. Nichols Medal of:;:; the New York Section of the::;: ACS, the Pittsburgh A ward of::~;~ the Pittsburgh ACS and the Lae-~~·:· 
tare Medal of the University of: 
Notre Dame.  .  
A  former  director  of  the:  
Chemical  and  Petroleum  Re-:  

search Laboratory for the Car-::. 
negie-Mellon University, Rossini~~ has served the Un-iversity of;. Notre Dame for · 10 years, as;· dean of the Sb}lege of ScienceJ as associate dean of the graduate~ school, and -since 1967 -as~ vice president for research. 
~------------~~ 
case did not receive proper hearing. 
Hall boards would handle judicial matters respective of the haiL Rectors would be allowed to handle individual matters pri­vately without involving pub­licity, if the student wishes this procedure. 
Stu dent responsibility has been emphasized in the imple­mentation of the Judicial Code. Students are to be named for the University Board, the Appeals Board and the Hall Boards. The students are given responsibility in deciding cases. Concern for the student's needs is empha-
Council discussed the resulting list of twenty-two high-scoring names and then submitted a slightly smaller roster to the Ad­ministration Council. 
Over two hundred names were originally suggested. According to Miss Oates, the top ten stu­dent and faculty-administration preferences were basically the same. The list submitted to the Academic Affairs Council in­cluded~ Senator Edmund Muskie, William Buckley, Ayn Rand, William Perlmtter. Jacque­line Grennan, Barbara Ward of Harvard, Ethel Kennedy, John Hope Frankline of the Univer­sity of Cijicago, Senator William Proxmire, Charles Schultz, Gloria Steinem, Wayne Booth of the University of Chicago, Allard Lowenstein, John Updike, Han­nah Gray, Bernadette Devlin, John Lindsay, Ralph Nader, Mrs. Martin Luther King, Cynthia Clark Wedel, Shirley Temple Black, and Margaret Mead. Sena­tor Muskie, Barbara Ward, and William Buckley will be con­tacted first. 
DUST BUG 
Because -want as manypeople as possible to hea'r the ADVENT loudspeaker, we are making the following special offer: come in to RMS Audio sometime this week (or next Sunday before_1·30) and say you read the ulJSer­ver and want to hear'the AD· VENT speaker. We11 put your name into a computer­ized random selection process which will pick twelve win­ners. Each winner will get a choice of two excellent re­cord cleaning devices bY Cecil Watts, Ltd. · a $6.50 "Dust Bug" (for manual players) or a $4.00 "Preener • (for auto­matic c~ngers). There'S ab­IOiutlllw 110 CCIIt or --..uon. 
t 


RMSAUDIO 
1307 E. CAlVERT Phon~ 288--1681 
sized in the preference a student has in presenting his case, either to the University Board or to the Dean of Students. 
The same principle of student concern is applied to Hall Boards. Students may take cases either to the local board or to the Rector. The Dean of Stu­dents may also make appeals to the Board under the SLC ap­proved plan. Prior to this pro­posal, the Board of Trustees re­jected a plan not allowing the Dean to appeal cases. The pre­sent plan grants the Dean this right. 
Fr. ·Riehle spoke in favor of the Appeals Board plan and the Judicial Code. For Fr. Riehle, studen.t responsibility is the major concern in the success of the Code. He said that Students will be deciding cases and should be willing to put an effort into making the Code work. 
Dave Krashna disagrees with the approved Appeals Board. He gave his objection .on the Dean of Student's unique position for presenting appeals to the Board, 
Vanity Fair Diamonds 
55 East Washington Street Chicago, Illinois 60602 
Please send me a 1971 Vanity Fair catalog 

NAM~------------------------------------­
ADDRESS---------------------------------------­CITY___________STAT.,__________ZJP CODE______ 
SCHOOL------------------------------------­
consisting of only three mem­bers. Krashna said he favored an Appeals Board of five members: three students, one faculty, and one administnitor. 
SS,OOO loss 
(continued from page 1) 
_more parties interested in broad­casting the same attraction, and 

he ·Operates  on  a  "percentage" .  
basis.  
Since  the  ACC  has a greater  

capacity than Stepan Center and since tickets will cost $6.00 and $5.00, rather than the $3.50 and $5.00 that the Student Union had intended to charge, more profit can be expected from the ACC broadcast. 
According to Mr. Plouff the $6.00 price is a "national scale." The $5.00 student ticket was a ''concession" from the people in Chicago made Plouff after he was pressured by Student Union for a student discount. 
Plouff estimated that the ACC would make "enough to pay the rent-about $1000." 

All the world loves 
a lover. Especially people with somethingto sell. 
"You're two sweet kids," said the local jeweler. ''I'm gonna give you a real spec;ial price." Every happy couple gets the same line. Don't believe it. 
There is a way of bringing down the high cost of engagement and marriage-Vanity Fair Diamonds. For 50 years, we've been selling diamond rings for the lowest prices you'll find 
anywhere. Honest. 

-

Rev. James Riehle 

~------TY--PI_N_G______, 
Any material, any length, charts and diagrams. $.50/page. Will pick up and deliver. Call Connie Paden 289-0177 after 4 PM 
Our secret? We han­dle the whole process of making a ring our­selves, from buying the rough stone in Antwerp or India, to selling the finished ring to you on your campus or in our Chicago show­
rooms. There are no middle-man profits to drive up the price. 
Get the whole Vanity Fair story from our free 36­
page color cata­log. Just send the coupon below. 
Vanity Fair 
Diamonds Inventors of the Painless Marriage. 


Page 4 THE OBSERVER 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student New..,aper 
GLEN S. CORSO, Editor-in-Chief JOHN E. KNORR, Executive Editor BRUCE RIECK, Business Manager 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1'966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Abolish the Senate 
The Senate does not serve the students. It blusters, proselytizes, bellows, and wails. It plays oracle about things for which it has no right to play oracle. It drones on and on about issues. It hassles for several meetings before passing the Finance Committee's budget. And sometimes it lays dormant, like a three 'toed sloth in hibernation. But it does not serve the students. 
The one useful thing the Senate does is to serve as a check in the budgeting of the student activity fee. We believe that this one function can be handled by the Hall Presidents' Council without overburdening it. 
It is obvious, however. that the Hall Presidents do not want all the other powers that the proposed constitution would give them. But the exact governing structure, as it will be worked out, should not include the Senate. There are two reasons for this. The first is that the Senate has been, quite simply, ineffective. The second reason, however, probably underlies the first. It is that too few people are spread out over too many duplicating organizations. 
A way to change this ineffectiveness is to make the structure that has been set up by the University -the Student Life Council -effective. It cannot be done overnight, of course. But it could be done if the representatives elected to the Student Life Council could devote more time to the Council by limiting other activities. Too often the SLC is inconclusive and ineffectual because the members haven't done their homework or they have something else to do. This should not be the case. 
The Student Life Council does not serve the students. It ar.gues for an hour over meeting times, and a half-hour over the objectivity of the minutes. It chews on bills that can only help student life and then sits on them because it is afraid of the Trustees and afraid of the alumni and afraid of the administration and afraid of the University fi.!Jlows and afraid that somebody might find out that it has no real power at all. But it does not serve the students. 
If student government is sincere about drastic re-organization.. and we 
believe that it is because it has proposed a radically new constitution, then we suggest 
that it consider restructuring around the demands of the SLC. We propose that they do 
this by making the primary function of the Student Body Vice-President the 
co-ordination of student participation in the SLC. We also recommend that the Student 
Body President be relieved of his obligation to the SLC. The reason that we suggest this, 
and we do not aim personally at David Krashna, is that the Student Body President has 
too much to do. 

This is not a pleasant place to live. There are a lot of problems: parietal hours, poor 
food, inefficient laundry, and old and bug-ridden dorms, poor courses --and we should 
have students in Student Government working effectively to solve these problems while 
maintaining the services that are the exclusive concern of many students, at leasj as far as 
student government is concerned. We must realize that while many of us are filled with 
the larger interests of the students at Notre Dame, there are still many students who want 
something else from Notre Dame. 'Fhey want an education, and they want it with the 
minimum amount of misery necessary. 
The Hall Presidents' Council is a new concept in student govemment. It should be 
given a chance. There are several new institutions, such as the University Forum and the 
General Assembly of Students, which should be given a chance because the old ones 
aren't working. 
Observer Editorials are a reflection of the majority opinion of the 

MEAN '/OU.. '8RO\.l6-I+T p,e.. 
editorial board. The editorials are not necessarily written exclusively by the 
~ WA-'f UP ~E ..... 
' 
Editorial Page Editor. Observer Editorial Board: Glen 

~0~ R~~L~y ~ONT ~~Ot 
Corso, Ed Ellis, T.C. Treanor, Dave
'Pt~l\-SSO 'PAt~TS ~?
. . 

Bach, Dave Lammers, Bill Carter, Jim Graif, and John Knorr. 
Managing Editor: Bill Carter Editorial Page Editor: T.C. Treanor News Editor: Ed Ellis Features Editor: Dave Lammers Sports Editor: Terry Sheilds 
SMC News Editor: Jeanne Sweeney Asoociate Editors: Dave StauffP.r, Sue Bury Night Editors: Mary Chris Morrison 
Ann Conway Healines: Jim Roe Layout: Alison Kittrell, Dave Bach 
Art Wesselman Layout Design: Joe Cassini Controller of the Ni!tlt: R. Smith 
Wednesday, October 21, 1970 

linos Si,drys 

Guerilla Warfare on the Amber Coast 


The first successful hijacking of a Russian plane by two "very 
desperate" men briefly brought the world's attention to Russia's 
interior problems; specifically Lithuania. The Lithuanian hijacker, 
Mr. Pranas Brazinskas and his son Algirdas, shot a woman when 
she blocked the door to the pilot's compartment, and shot and 
injured the two pilots when the pilots tried to dislodge them with 
aerial maneuvers. The puzzled newsmen, attempting to explain 
su~:h bold and dangerous action, spewlated that the hija~:kers are 
Jews fleeing Russian persecution. Such spe~:ulation would be un­
necessary if one were aware of the true state of affairs in oc­
cupied Lithuania. Such violence is only one indi~:ation of the 
once active and now smoldering warfare bet ween the Lithuanians 
and the Russians. It is indicative of tensions which could flare 
into a national uprising inside of the U.S.S.R.; provided the 
Lithuanians saw a real chance of regaining their independence. 
However, it is unlikely that the newsmen, or the American 
public, .will ever become aware of this fact, for use in important 
eventualities, until it is too late to be of use. Americans have an 
incredible ignorance, and lack of interest, in the political and 
historical conditions of other countries. Thus our government 
becomes dependent on governments with interests which conflict 
with our own, like France, and overlooks slates with similar goals. 
Thus it supports governments antagonistic to the nationalistic 
desires of its own people-because it does not recognize or under­
stand their nationalism, and finds itself fighting foreign national­
ists. It attempts to save Asians (who don't even wa!)t to he saved) 
from Communism, and ignores the people in Lithuania, Hungary, 
the Crimean, Ukraine, Cuba, and Czechoslovakia who have 
proved their determination to resist Communism. Ignorance and 
neglect in international politics exacts a costly payment, but not 
even the Viet Nam War has connected this cause and effect rela­
tionship for the American mind. 
This egocentric attitude is similar to the American attitude at the end of World War II. The people of Eastern Europe were confident that America would be interested in freeing them from the Soviet Occupation. They found it inconceivable that the West would not quickly realize that Communist Russia was as danger­ous an enemy as Nazi Germany had been. America had the atom bomb, Russia did not; America could win a peaceful victory by giving a strict ultimatum demanding a Russian withdraw! (the guerrillas suggested.) However, the Americans still considered the Russians as allies and did not even acknowledge the existence of the fighting partizans behind the Soviet frontier. The most ac­tive and sustained resistance was in Lithuania. Despite 250,000 casualties from W. W.II and the Nazi occupation, and the loss of 230,000 people who were forced to flee the country by advan­cing battle lines, the remaining Lithuanians fought in armed con­flicts with the Soviets from 1944-1953. In the later years, the aim of freedom was a hopeless goal; the war was motivated by a resistance to the systematic Communist plan of genocide for the Baltic countries. Starting in 1941, the Soviets deported 330,000 Lithuanians to Siberia. Those taken were the former leaders, civil servants, professors, students and priests of independent Lithua­nia. For example, of the 1334 priests left in 194 7, 1000 were eventually deported. 
The chief targets of the resistance were the secret police, Com­munist activists and the imported Russian colonists. The usual conflicts, or hit-and-run attacks were small, involving only lO to 15 partizans. Occasionally however, they reached the proportions of the battle of Kalnishkiai, where eighty guerillas were surroun­ded by 1000 NKVD. The wounded, including two women, pro­vided cover while the rest broke through. Sixty guerillas and 400 Soviets died in this battle. It was a standard procedure for the wounded guerillas to explode a grenade near the face to prevent recognition and reprisals against relatives. Captured guerillas were tortured and killed and their bodies exibited in village squares. 
The shooting war faded when Stalin died in 1953 and the Communists softened their tactics. The losses for the war until 1952 cost the Lithuanians 300,000 men against an estimated 80,000 Russians. The total Joss brought the country's population to 2,700,000, the 1850 population level. Thus rested the ethnic identity which produced Emmanuel Kant, St. Casmir, and Joseph Conrad. 
After such a long conflict, the present situation is of passive rc:sistanL.: against the Russian political, cultur?.l and e·:onomic pressures to destroy the remaining Lithuanian autonomy. With a realization of these past and present conditions, statements such as the Chicago Tribune's "and many Lithuanians still object to the Soviet absorption of their country in 1940 "are seen. to be bitter and tragic understatements. From the continuing resist­ance, it must be understood that a true and lasting world peace must include the Lithuanian, and other captive nation's indepen­dence. 
The time for an outright military support of these enslaved peoples ended when Russia acquired the atom bomb. America's political struggle against Russia must now deal with the Soviet's cultural and economic maneuvers and pressures. The present steps to be taken require the support of the Congressional bill to place the Baltic question before the United Nations, opposition to Communism in other parts of the world, restriction of trade with the U.S.S.R., support of Radio Free Europe, and aid to refugees like Mr. Branzinskas who manage to break through to the free world. 
Wednesday, October 21, 1970 THE OBSERVER. Page5 
Fran"lln Devine 
''The Sea Gull''-a tightrope to success 
Have you ever been to a circus jolted himself upright and con­and watched aghast as a tight­tinued shakily along the high rope walker slipped and then, at wire'! It's an exciting, but not the very last possible second, really pleasant or entertaining 
ftev. Robe~ CrHfin 
Waifs 
In the middle of July, I was informed by one of the summer school squireens that he had taken in a temporary roommate -a nineteen year old child-nomad who, from her travelogue, sounded like a daughter of the Wandering Jew. Seemingly a cast-off, she was on her way to California, where friends waited to offer her love, shelter, and a crack at the American way of life, Haight-Ashbury style. For the moment, she was stranded at Notre Dame, awaiting a grub-stake and a ride to San Francisco. 
I had met the gypsy-rover over coffee in the cafeteria on the Fourth of July. Upon introduction, she almost immediately offered to become a Catholic, as though that were a gift of self that would please me most. She was so sadly shabby, so much like the shorn lamb for whom the wind must be tempered, that I might have bap­tized her on the spot, if I had felt within her any real hunger to share the theological commitments of the Pope. However, one hardly ac­cepts conversion as a first condition for friendship. As it was, I tried to make a great deal over the single link that seemed to join our lives: namely, that she helped distribute copies of a summer school publication called the "University Forum," in which my own death­less prose was sometimes printed. Our association on that paper wasn't much of a bond of togetherness: hut it seemed to be the only one we had. I think I was prepared to love her anyway, because her little weekly chore as paper-girl for the "Forum" seemed so pa theti­cally lacking in its opportunities for self-fulfillment. 
My friendship with this little wanderer never reached the point of dazzling the campus with its intensity. Mo!>t of what I knew of her I heard from mutual acquaintan(;es: that she lived in a dorm with a student; that their room was dose by the Rector's suite; that, even­tually, she arranged for a loan and a ride to the Coast. I probably would not have heard this much except that the girl had been no­ticed by the Rector, who gently chided her as a wed who had strayed into the hall after hours. The student who was her sponsor was anxious that his domestic arrangements might not be viewed with suspkion, if the Establishment's creatures should discover he had lived for several weeks with this mite of a moppet stretched out nightly at his feet in a sleeping bag. He had called on me, as chaplain, to witness, if an emergency arose, to the honorableness of his inten­tions in watching over the homeless waif. 
Both the student and I were greatly relieved when the girl even­tually left the University premises. I never accepted the role assigned me without protest, and I did my best to implement alternate ar­rangements. But runaway children on their way to the Coast are never quick to embrace the chan(;e to be bedded down at nightfall in a hall full of nuns. 
The kindness of this hoy is, I think, illustrative of the sense of compassion that Notre Dame students. even the brutish ones, have for the underdog. Students have a way of attracting stray people, whom they can bring home to be looked after by their rectors. Letting them go into the inner city is like sending a child into a yard full of stray kittens and then expecting him to come home alone. 
Last year, in the early morning hours of the October moratorium, a group of my own Keenan students appeared in my room with a request that a hippie couple--a pair of young lovers who had drifted onto the (;ampus in search of a happening-be allowed to use the very limited sleeping facilities of a basement lounge-room for the night. October 15th, last year, with its special Masses and candle-lit peace marches, was a deeolv religious day; and though I felt like the Grinch Who Stole Christmas, I did not really want this pair of beg­gars using our practically only hall couch as a crash pad. I also feared the event as one which could earn me a rebuke from the Administra­tion. Yet I knew if I refused, a dozen students would question my rights to any authentic claims as a Christian or as a human being. One junior psychology major reminded me of the small wooden cross I was wearing. My refusal of shelter, he implied, would mean I should hang up my symbol of compassion on a rusty nail until the time I felt more like practicing the ways of Jesus. In the end, of course. I suc(;umbed, because r could not resist the mute appeal in a dozen pairs of eyes. The couple stayed the night, and I arranged for their meals in the Huddle, mostly for the reason that I refused to appear as less sensitive to basic human situations than the young idealists who sometimes keep the night-watch with their Rector. 
Then. last Christmas, there was George, a white man; and his wife, a black woman: and their child, worn on the man's back like an Indian papoose, whom I remember (most certainly incorrectly) as being named Cannabis. They came over from Morrissey Hall. highly recommended by some chaps there as a family authentically in need of help. They had moved down from Michigan, George said, after being troubled by the authorities for alleged possession of narcotics. At Christmas, one cannot turn away a man, woman, and child, if one has religious hangups, without fear of offending the Holy Fam­ily. So, with the help of friends and a Sunday Mass collection. I paid rent, bought groceries, and made efforts at Personnel, which even­tually resulted in a job for George. But for the rest of the Holiday Season, every time I dined too well in a restaurant, I felt as though I had offended against the spirit of Christmas and the expectations of the Morrissey Hall gentry, in not doing more to relieve the needs of that pathetic little family. Even with the small help I gave, I won­dered if I had robbed these simple people of their sense of dignity, especially when they offered to allow me to baptize little Cannabis, as though in receiving help they had given me mortgages on the spiritual life of their infant son. 
Simple human kindness, our students can tell you, may not al­ways light candles in the Grotto, but it does have its own way of covering a multitude of sins. 
experience. 
/\ highwire act opened over this past weekend at Washington Hall. The ND-SMC Theatre opened their 1970-71 season with Anton Chekhov' s, The Sea­gulL Being a tightrope walker isn't easy. Even being a shaky one takes consummate skill. The company precariously, but tri­umphantly makes its way through the play. But God, I held my breath all the way. 
The plot involves a young wri­ter committed to new styles and forms. His mother, a suc(;essful actress constantly finds fault with his work. She makes sure that she is at all times able to overshadow her son. She traipses through life chasing after her lost youth, dragging a novelist-lover along for the ride. For some reason completely beyond me, Nina, the young woman of the title, falls madly in love with the nardssistic novelist. Nina fol­lows him and the actress to Mos­cow where she is destroyed by an affair with him. The dreamy and unsiahle girl is left an empty shell. 
Our friend the earnest young writer, meanwhile has attempted suicide. He manages to do him­self in on the second attempt. Also meandering in and out of the play are Uncle Peter, an in­credibly debilitated man of sixty, Masha, a melancholy young lady who takes to swilling vodka and inhaling snuff after her marriage to an innane schoolteacher. Throughout the play Dr. Dorn, the family physi­cian rambles on philosophically­occasionally singing to himself. 
Certainly The Seagull is a drama, and yet there are any number of comic moments in iL It's this fine line between comic pathos and somplete desolation which almost eludes the cast. We are constantly being threatened by that painful, dull monotony which constantly threatens a Chekhov play. At times, especi­ally during the first two acts, the company seems to lose sight of the comic element in Chekhov. It is during these acts that the play teeters on the abyss of boring monotony. Anne Patter­son's Masha is a good example of the unexploited comic potential in the production. Yet there is 
just enough of a shadow of human comedy which is bound up with the human tragedy to carry it off. Richard Homan, as her hasband is delightfully ner­vous and inane. 
Marc Genera show an acting flair in this production which I don't remember him exhibiting last season. As Boris, the self-­enchanted novelist Genaro is convincingly wid. It comes as no surprise that he is able to so easily destroy Nina's life. 
Missy Smith is a powerful Nina, unstable, vulnerable -a perfect victim for a cold hunter. 
But it's the power of Nori Wright and James Hawthorne as the mother and son which gave the play the life which was al­most missing. Chekhov's aura of? isolation and estrangement from society was overwhelming when these two appeared together. 
Reginald Bain's direction was never overhearing. This was more an actors show than a di­rector's. Yet he was able to keep the attention of the audience where it belonged, an especially difficult job when various ac­tions are taking place simulta­neously on the two level stage. 
Richard Bergman made his debut at ND-SMC as a scenic 

designer with this produdion. more than canvas or wood. The His use of a large thrust made set seemed to become a viable ugly Washington Hall into an ex­part of the action. citing new theatre. He added an The company struggled hon­intimacy between the audience estly with the text,. Like the and the action on stage. The tightrope walker. the outcome coldness and aimlessness of the looked a little shaky, but damn play's mood ·was delivered di­it, they made it -and it was like rectly to the audience. His set, the highwire act, the audience 
reflecting the play itself, was was both relieved and thrilled 
made of illusion and suggestion when it was over. 

James Hawthorne as the son in the ND-S"MC production of Chekhov's "The Sea Gull" for which tickets for this weekend are available at O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
II•L•ry~ 

Onward Earthlings 
Got off on a weird train tonight. Read "Lysistrata," a piece of good old comic, Aristophanic erotica; which started me thinking about all the societal tabboos stuck onto sex and also the pious old dudes who shut down the Porno Conference and deprived me of seeing the FUGS; which made me decide to pull out my complete collection of Fugs albums, turn up the volume to tremendous proportions, and revel in the joys of good old "dirty music," which unexpectedly led me into the realm of (pardon the phrase) KOSMlC 
TROOTHS. 

I used to think that I was part of some where it's revolutionary, now culture truckin' out to new depths of consciousness, getting into radically original inner explorations and other hip, neat stuff. 
All this, of course, made me a man apart, someone ethereal as hell, despite the fact that I still went to the bathroom. And I thought ''Oh yeah, now I'm really together and I can get into beautiful things." This meant,. among other things, the Fugs -Yippie peace queers, poets, spacemen, cosmic cowboys, electric truck-drivers ­the Vanguard of the Cultural Revolution. But it was weird tonight. I 
used to only hear their gentle anarchy and their sexual outrageousness, but tonight I heard some Sandersian humanity. 
'Cause here was Ed Sanders singing all those freeky imagistic lyrics about "zebra-skinned grope harnesses," "onyx handled tapir snouts," and "tiny push-up bras made from the eyelids of an elephant," but he wasn't just singing about freeks as freeks. He was singing about freeks as people, which is really far out 'cause even freeks don't always see themselves that way. Sanders sings about the 
"peace creep poet" who comes back from prison to see his woman, but finds "another poet's notebooks stacked up by the bed, another man's vision in her heart." And you can just see the same thing happening in that abominable song "Billy and Sue" or you can see the wild-ass redneck robber coming back from jail to find his woman has split. And what about Jimmy Joe, the hippy billy boy who freeked out after hearing the six o'clock news, started "makin' weird things down in shop class" and wore only a "purple petrified tapir snout for an athletic supporter" to the County Track meet? Visions of the Leader of the Pack or maybe even the young Merle Haggard. ­And what about the burnt-out dude, who's finally gone straight and married Betty Jo and gone to work in the Honkville Glue Factory, making one last visit to the old crash pad to sit "around, around, around, around the hookah pipe?" Visions of a last drunk with your buddies at the old Green Parrot. 
And it's all the same thing, man. Only the symbols are switched and whether people make love in the back of a Ford or in a bathtub of mazola oil, they're still making love. And whether people are into Zen and eating brown rice or getting high on Oral Roberts and hamburgers, they're still satisfying the same needs. Which is not to say C'mon people get together and peace and love will come showering down in wet spiritual colors touching everyone with soma-stuff, making them rise up fierce and whole in some cosmic humanity. Hell, no, that's ridiculous, 'cause every day "the oatmeal retches onward." We're all in it together, we're all up against the same ugly wall. ONWARD INTO THE SKUSH! 
THI!. O&rERfJER. Wednesday, October 21, 1970
Page6 
Volunteers help "people who care" 
spQnd normally to the pressures and de­
by John Spinelli Fred. Sometimes it takes much longer. necromancy to ward otl the sphere of the unclean. Elaborate rituals such as m_!!n'ds of the future. 
John Spinelli is a senior Sociology major Most children have compulsions to do 
touching the "spot", repeating a word

from Fairfax Virginia. He is the acting things like being -careful not. to step on Examples of patients like this make the 
twenty times cont'inuously, hand washing 

chainnan ofMANASA, The Notre Dame the cracks of the sidewalk or like keeping N D -SMC volunteer's role appear at first
compulsions, and the exercise of breath­

Mental Health Unit. their school desk on line with utmost ac­glance absolutely impotent. You might
ing control in the presence of special

curacy. And some people are compulsive ask, and most legitimately, how can an
landmarks all serve as expiation for real

In the following article a· name has businessmen or artists. But our society unskilled layman help a patient like this? 
or imagined offenses. 

been used to conceal the true identity of condones these forms of behavior because You can. First of all, no matter how dedi­the individual. Any coincidence with per­
they fit right into the established .order of cated the hospital staff, there is no substi­
sons alive or dead is purely unintentional. tute for the meaningful warmth that
tmngs.

I first met' Fred on Ward 6-North. It is volunteers provide. Fred's case was cited
·13ut the compulsive ,neurotic is m much Several times Fred would spend
a psychiatric ward for disturbed adoles­as one of the most problematic psychotic 
worse condition. The anguish the patient agonizing minutes forcing me to recite a
cents and adults down at St. 1oseph 's conditions. But despite his complexity,
experiences seems unbearable. Fred used· litany of magic words that had to be
_Hospital, which is ~djacent to the Holy the mere concern that volunteers can
to have trouble scoring well on tests. For uttered to "free" him. Invigoratin~ words 
bring to the mentally disturbed solves

instance, ·even if he knew the correct an­like "life", "win" and "victory" were 
half the battle. As mentioned previously,
swer was "A" he might mark the letter part of his inventory. Only a very particu­
Fred suffered from "a devious aggressive­
"E". The letter seemed to hold a peculiar lar number of repetitions would suffice 
ness", a congealed hostility that was in
-. . fascination for him because it is the fifth and anything short of the required mim­Cross School of Nursmg. Our acquar~-letter in the alphabet. And the number ber would mean disaster. I heard Fred as­fact vulnerable. It could be unleashed tance was most unusual. Custom has rt ...5, . t h' 'f , On his harmlessly and in Fred's case it was. ,
· fft · t magrca11y se 1m ree . saulted not only an orderly but even one 
that volunteers re_cerve a I een mmu e way home from a bowling alley one even-There are· usually thirteen to fifteen
of the psychiatrists who did not respond report of _the pa_tlents befor_e they pro-ing, Fred watched a woman litter the side other patients who populate the north­
exactly the way they should have. Stern's ceed to mmgle wrth them. Ber~g a regul~r of the street with a small piece of paper. west corner of the sixth floor at St. Joe's.
explanation is that " ... compulsiveness 

additio~ to the ward on Fnday after-He forgot completely about picking it up They represent a sampling of nearly all
goes with a peculiar kind of devious ag­

noons, I did not bother ~0 get the fldl until he got in bed later that night. He gressiveness, with obstinate passive defi­ages (usually teenagers and adults), sizes, st~ry on_ the few ne~ patrents whg had didn't sleep at all worry~~g about that 
ance of real or fancied authorities, with colors and beliefs. With new methods of 
arrived smce the prevlOUS weekeml.. Fred E I -th f 11 . ·n he the transformation of life into an inter­treatment, and of course, our help, these 
· t paper. ar y e o owmg morm g 
was one ofthese new patten s. returned to the spot to find and carry the minable battle against omnipresent, never patients can return to their families. And trash away with him. Much to his disap­decisively defeated enemies." God knows there are plenty of people
Things were going smoothly whilt: 
pointment there was nothing there; the who need care.
another patient, Fred, and myself chatted Thanks to the compassionate therapy
alley had been cleaned. Nonetheless, Fred
in the ward's corridor. As we broke up, of Dr. Katherine Rice, an extraordinary
did not leave the spot without first touch­
Fred and I decided to enter the recreation psychiatrist who often devotes her own There are over fifty volunteers on the
ing. it to "cleanse" himself. 

rooJ)l at the far end o( the ward::-with free time to treating patients, Fred is ward among whom are at least twenty­greal: difficulty. My friend could not seem once again living at home and finishing five ND -SMC students' who will spend at to go anywhere without first advancing Paul Stern, a psychologist at the Har-' his college education at iUSB. For the · least two hours every week on the ward. two steps and then retracing one. Breath­vard ·Divinity School, claims that "it is a greatest part of Fred's life, the art of They joined us last month and will begin 
ing heavily, eyelids drooping slowly and well established clinical fact that many living and becoming had been arrested. their services on the ward within the next then retreating to his forehead, he looked compulsives are inordinately fascinated, The patient w~ so tre~.QU.Slv two weeks. Remember, it's never too late like a man possessed by some alien being consciously or unconsciously, with the immersed in the excrement of the past to help other people. So if you want to controlling his every movement. We· realm of dirt, decay, pollution ... and (the enchantment for decay and pollu­do this simply dial'233-5373. Ask for reached the recreation room in about. even death." In order to cope with this tion) that he could not possibly live for John Spinelli. I will give you any more twenty minutes, not long actually for realm, the compulsive adopts a kind of the Now. And certainly he could not re-...information you desire. 
Malcolm X author to speak 
Alex Haley, author of "Auto­Dame's Memorial Library Audi­Haley, an internationally biography of Malcolm X,'' will torium on "Black Heritage -A known author, world traveler speak at 8 p.m. Wednesday (Oct. Saga of Black History." His ap­and lecturer, has contributed 
21) in the University of Notre pearance is sponsored by the regularly to the; Saturday 




OVER THE HILL 
Wednesday, October 21 with 
The Melting Pot 
FREE LaFortune Ballroom 
9:30. 11:30 
Student Union Academic Com­Evening Post, the New York mission. Times Magazine and Reader's Di­
After five years as a best­gest. He is presently writing a seller, Haley's famous autobio­book title "Before This Anger," graphy is being made into a mo­to be published by Doubleday & tion picture on the life of Co.~in 1971. The book traces Malcolm X. Recently, botfl the Haley's maternal lineage across New York Times and Time Ma­nine unbroken generations back gazine selected it among their into the 1700's, to a tiny West "Ten Most Notable Books of the African village and a specific 1960's Decade." family of the Mandinka tribe. 
Alex Baley 

Steering Committee elects members 
Nine  members  of  a  Council  members  were  elected  studies.  
I 0-member steering committee of the University of Notre Dame's Academic Council have been announced.  to the committee. They are Dr. Frederick Crosson, dean of the College of Arts and Letters; Dr. Jeremiah  A tenth member of the committee will be chosen Ia tcr from among the seven students to be added to the counciL  
In addition to the Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., provost, and the Rev. Ferdinand L. Brown, C.S.C., associate provost, who serve ex-officio, seven  Freeman, chairman of the department of chemistry; Dr. Bernard Waldman, dean of the College of Science; the Rev. Ernan McMullin, chairman of the department of philosophy.  The steering committee will establish the agenda for each Council meeting, discuss in ad­vance agenda items, convey summaries of issues and propo­sals for action to the Council,  
Also  ,  Dr.  Bernard  Norling,  and  create  committees  from  
associate· professor  of  history;  among the Council to investigate  
Dr.  Joseph Hogan, dean of the  and report on various pr~posals.  
College of Engineering, and Dr.  The 65-member Academic Coun­ 
Edward A. Goerner, professor of  cil is the chief academic policy­ 
government  and  international  making body at the University.  


is back! 
Bookstore, Student 
Union Ticket Office (hours -I2-I, 4-6 ), Dining Halls (Wed. & Thurs.). 
Hair Styling 
(or.ND.men the Continental WayRazor Cutting t. Style · 
E~1ropean Layer Shaping for Long Hair 
Have Long Hair ~ M'
B d .et zss Treva & The Baro!l
e e roo me S.erv.e & Pamper You 
Continenta_l Hair Styling 
306 Sherland Bldg. South Bend, Ind. Student Rates 234-0811 By Appt 
Wednesday, October 21, 1970 THE OBSERUER. Page 7 
I am still World Champion-Cassius 

In yesterdays Obsen>er, privilege, and he still considers ically as well as mentally. His showed the right moves but also fighter. He won the heavyweightticket prices for the closed himself the World Heavyweight statements, once quippy and talked a great fight, even then. championship in a controversialChampion, since no one has
circuit telecast of the more often humorously arro­Clay's earliest competition was clash with Sonny Liston on ataken that title away from him gant, are now expended with
Clay-Quarry fight in a juvenile version of the Gol­knockout the
were technical in sev­
in a ring ... The debate on that· 
much thought. "I no longer talk den Gloves titles. 

listed at $6. Not mentioned enth round at Miami Beach on
one may rage for a long time but to hear myself," he says. In 1960, he won the National Feb. 25, 1964. Clay's first de­was the fact that there are the fact that emerges is simple. 
"There have been no big gates Golden Gloves heavyweight title fense was against Liston. Clayspecial rates for students, Clay's controversy, regardless of to build these past few years and in Madison Square Garden, al­won that rematch on a knockoutwhich side you're on, has kept
faculty and stall These I have discovered that the youth though he was still only a light in the much-discussed firsthim out of ring action for more of this country pays attention to heavyweight on the scales. He al­
tickets can be purcha\ed for round at Lewiston, Maine in
than three years and has cost me ... On their account, I must so won the National AAU and
$5 at the Convocation Cen­March of 1965, In November of
him millions of dollars in rev­say only what I feel is right and I960 Olympic titles, both f!S 
a that year, he stopped Floyd Pat­

ter ticket ojjlce only. enue. 
sincere.~ Just as his father was a light heavy. He had 141 amateur terson in the 12th round of
It is virtually impossible to Perhaps thi~ .;,Jn of Cassius flashy, talkative man, young Cas­fights, lost only seven. His per­another highly speculative boutconfine the controversial and a­Marcellus Clay I, a successful sius grew fast, talked faster, and sonality captured the Olympic in Las Vegas.
m a zing career of CASSIUS sign painter in Louisville, was a had something to say about Village in Rome, where heMARCELLUS CLAY II to a tot of destiny from the moment everything. He was a restless talked to everyone who would Clay, or Ali, if you prefer, has mere thumbnail ... No other of his birth, on January 17, successfully defended his
boy, with his share of fights in listen. He became the hottest fis­title 
heavyweight in modern or even 1942. It is said he started talking the street, and a good part of his tic prospect since Joe Louis. nine times. His last competitive
ancient times has created more at 10 months and there has been amazing reflex action was devel­Everyone with money and some effort in the ring, exclusive of stir than this 2R-year old ... Clay little stopping him since --until oped ducking exhibitions, was his defense of
carefully-aimed without it bid for the services ofprefers to be known as Muham­
the last year. He has mellowed rocks. He was exceptionally fast. young Cassius. the crown against Zora Folley,
mad Ali, and that is certainly his considerably and matured phys-in Madison Square Garden with
In the public playgrounds, he Ultimately, "clay signed with played softball, basketball and what became known as the a seventh-round knockout on volley ball. He was a marbles "Louisville Group", which in­March 22,1967.
JIM MURRAY 
champion. "I had the surest cluded eight millionaires among How the years of ring inactivi­
knuckles in Louisville," he its eleven members. Angelo Dun­ty have affected this superclaims. He was the pet of his dee, one of the ablest trainers, athlete--for that's what he reallymother, Odessa Lee, and by his was enlisted as top second, con­is--remains to be seen here in At-· own admission spent his boy­ditioner and teacher. All of the lanta on October 26th. There­hood eating and sleeping. Given young boxer's bouts were fought been, known
have however, a bike for being smart in school under the Louisville Group's

Giveaway 
changes. He has married for a when he was 1 2, he treasured it. aegis, including the title defense second time and he and his wife One day, the bike was stolen. against Karl Mildenberger in Ger­Belinda, have three children: Cassius reported the theft to po­many in September. His later 2, newborn
--Maryum, and

Giants 
liceman Joe Martin. fights, beginning with his de­
twins, Reeschemah and Jamillah. Martin also happened to be fense against Cleveland Williams They live in a huge house in Phil­
the boxing instructor in a com­on Nov. 14 in the Astrodome of 
adelphia, with phones in every @ 1970, Los Angeles Times munity gymnasium. He took the Houston, are independent of the room including the bathrooms. young Cassius in hand, along original Louisville sponsors. 
Once upon a time, there was a baseball team known as the San He has never lost his desire to 
with his brother Rudolph Valen­

Francisco Giants and they finished second more often than Ger­Clay's "poetic" spoutings talk to people and his phone
tino Clay. The stolen bike was have become dimmed by his re­
many. rings constantly. The time to 
forgotten. The boys haunted the ligious leanings, but neither his
They had so many good ballplayers they should have been in a worry is when the phone stops 
gym. Martin could see in Cassius religion nor his poetry have any­
close fight with the 1927 Yankees or the 1 929 Philadelphia Athletics ringing. a boxing natural. He not only thing to do with his ability as a
as the Team-of-the-Half-Century. They had Orlando Cepeda and Jose Pagan, Willie Mays and Willie McCovey, Felipe, Matty, and Jesus Alou, and Manny Mota and Tom Haller. With a lineup like that, they didn't need pitchers. But they had Juan Marichal and Gaylord Perry. 
Ara ready to go bowling
Naturally, a team like this couldn't be allowed to run around loose. It might kill somebody. 
INDIANAPOLIS (UPI)­"Now, of course, after having ber," he said.
So, the Giants set about defusing it, as if it were a ticking time Notre Dame football coach Ara played in a bowl game after 44 Parseghian also said the Irishbomb, set to go off some September and blow up all baseball. 
Parseghian said Tuesday his Irish years, the polls are still impor­have attempted in the past to getWithout even registering as a functioning charity, it dealt Felipe 
would accept a bowl invitation tant to Notre Dame," he said. a game with top rated OhioAlou off to the Braves in the winter of 1964. Alou had hit 45 home again this year if one is extended "But now the possibility exists State. "But unfortunately, Ohioruns in the preceding two years, and batted . 316 and . 281, stolen 21 and if the club's record remains that Notre Dame can get an in­State plays only a nine game
bases and knocked in 180 run~. to say nothing of helping the Giants even
good. vitation to a bowl game schedule," said.
he "Evento their only pennant. The only reason he wasn't the best center­

Parseghian, in a telephone ad­though we might have a few though the conference has comefielder in the league was because Willie Mays was in it. 
dress to Indianapolis News losses.'' along and added 11th game
The Giants got two over-age pitchers and a semi-retired catcher an 
The Irish are currently un­
Downtown Quarterback club, for everbody, and-the OSU fac­for Felipe. 
said the Irish, not being in a con­beaten and ranked third by ulty has okayed a IOth game,Thus encouraged, they pushed Matty Alou over the side next. He ference, have had to rely heavily· United Press International. that extra game has to be a con­was, fittingly, acquired by the Pirates. They gave up Ossie Virgil and national polls for pres­"I'm more concerned how we
on the ference game." 
Joe Gibbon for him. Surely you remember them? 
rank in November than in Octo-
Matty promptly won the National League batting championship tige. and batted over .330 for three years in a row. Joe Gibbon won 11 games in three years. 
Since the Giants had traded away another Dominican, Manny 
Texas, OSU tie in votes 
Mota, to Houston for Joey Amalfitano and Houston, in turn, later­alled him off to the Pirates for an outfielder named -now, get this, -NEW YORK (UPI) -Woody acters changed. Ohio State was Michigan, Stanford, Arkansas Howie Goss, the Giants could see they were on the right track. They and Arizona State to complete
Hayes of Ohio State and Darrell rated the nation's No. 1 team to­
were like that guy on TV who goes around leaving million-dollar Royal of Texas must feel as if day in balloting by the 35 mem­the top 10. they're reliving the 1969 season. ber United Press International
checks to people, no strings attached. Five coaches from each of the Motta was to become a .322 hitter and a .321 hitter for Pitts­A year ago, Ohio State held Board of Coaches and Texas ,seven geographical areas of the the No. 1 ranking through most ranked second, a scant eight
burgh. Howie Goss was to become a .209 hitter with Houston. nation comprise the UPI ratings 
Jose Pagan, who was the best-fielding shortstop in the league, hit of the season, trailed closely by points behind. Both teams re­board. Each week they select the Texas. The Buckeyes were upset ceived 14 first place votes. 
the road for Dick Schofield, who was not. top 10 major college football The Giants were now ready for some real summit philanthropy. in their season finale by Mich­Notre Dame maintained a teams, with points awarded on a igan and Texas pulled off one of close third, 20 points behind
Orlando Cepeda had been Rookie-of-the-Year in 1958, had hit 46 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 basis on its miracle finishes to beat Ar­Texas. Nebraska was fourth, fol­votes from first through 1Oth.
home runs and knocked in 142 runs in 1961 ,had been the All-Star 
kansas in its last game and take lowed by Auburn, Air Force,
first baseman four times. The Giants got Ray Sadecki, a left-handed the national title. 
pitcher, for him. 
The scene is the same this

Cepeda went on to lead the Cardinals to TWO National League 
only cha!­

pennants and the Atlanta Braves to a divisional title. He won the season, with some 
Sailors place second 
MVP award in 1967, is sixth on the list of active alltime home-run Teams · Points hitters. Sadecki won 29 games in three years. But he l9st 32. The 1. Ohio St (14) 4-0 318 Two SMC girst also got into 
2. Texas (14) 4-0 . 310 Notre Dame managed a second
Giants traded him AND an outfielder to the Mets for an outfielder. the meet, acting as a crew for 
They put Jesus Alou in the expansion draft which is like leaving 3. Notre Dame (5) 5-0 290 pl~ce in hosting its own Regatta the various boats. Regina Ivory last Saturday at Diamond Lake,
him on the doorstep with a note pinned on him. Last time I looked, 4. Nebraska (l) 5-0-1 218 crewed for Hoyt and Ann Ryan he was hitting .307 for Houston. 5. Auburn 5-0 168 Michigan. Indiana's sailing for Barth. Other members of the 
Hoosiers coped top honors in
There is a recourse in law for heirs whenever they see a rich 6. Air Force 6-0 155 club that took part in the after­
7. Michigan 5-0 155 the six-team meet. In order of noon's precedings were Billrelative thr~wing money out of tall buildings or ordering Rolls­their finish from third to sixth,
-Royces for his night nurse. You wait too long and you find the old 8.Stanford(l)5-l 131 Dow, Bill Donovan, Tom Willi­
9. Arkansas 4-1 60 the other competing teams were son, Tom Salack and Steve Cas­boy has traded in his oil wells for the deed to the Brooklyn Bridge Southem Illinois, Marquette,
signed by a guy whose address is "Special Delivery, New York, New 10. Arizona St 5-0 44 tellano. • York." ll. usc 4-1-1 35 North western, and Sienna The Sailing Club will have 
fleights. ·

Since the Giants are down to their last Dominican (not counting 12. Tennessee 4-1 22 another busy weekend with two Ossie Virgil who's their third base coach right now), I would recom­13.Mississippi4-1 9 The Irish sailors used a total regattas on their schedule. One mend they have Juan Marichal made a ward of the court, and post a 14. Houston 3-1 8 of eight skippers in the regatta. group will travel to Columbus, 24-hour guard around Willie Mays and Willie Ml-£ovey. Either that, 15. San Diego St 6-0 3 The most successful of these Ohio for the Ohio State Regatta or change the corporate name of the club from the "New York 16. UCLA 4-2 2 were Kevin Hoyt (lst and 2nd) and another crew will set their. Exhibition Co." to the "Society For Helping The Pittsburgh Pirates, 17. Tie LSU 4-1 1 Neil Barth (1st and 2nd) and sights on capturing the Iowa Re­St. Louis Cardinals, Atlanta Braves Win The Pennant.'' Tie Toledo 6-0 Will Donelan (two lsts). gatta title at Iowa City. 
Wednesday, October 21, f970 

Page.8 THE OBSERJIER 
Four more persons arrested at Kent State 
KENT, Ohio (UPI) Four more person, including a former stu­dent wounded at Kent State University the day four students were shot to death by National Guardsmen, were arrested yes­terday. 
We attempt to bring art to ND-SMC but it's not easy. That's ~hy were asking for your help. Not your money, your time. Needed are a Pub­licity Director, an Associate Commissioner, and many, many workers. It's not easy · that's why we need you · Student Cultural Arts Com· mission. Contact Bob Brink· mann, 3797, or come up to our office, 2nd floor. La­Fortune, any afternoon. 
with the Now Generation Brass featuring the Brothers and the Sisters 
ACC 

Fri. Oct. 23 
RESERVED SEATS 
Upper Arena  $2.50  
Lower  A rena;  $5.00  
Chair  Platform  
Seats  
Loge  $7.50  

Sp1msored by the Big Brothers of St. Joseph County 

Tickets On Sale-A.C.C. & 
Taken into custody on war­rants issued by a special state grand jury which investigated the Kent shootings were Alan Canfora, 21, Barberton, Ohio; Douglas C. Cormack, 20, Wil­loughby, Ohio; Larry Shub, 19, 
... 


Cleveland Heights, Ohio, and 
Kenneth Hammond, 21, of May­
field Heights, Ohio. 
The arrests brought to seven 

the number of persons taken in 
custody since the grand jury in­
dicted 25 persons last Friday 
after a month long investigation 
into the campus shooting deaths · last May. 4. 
Canfora · suffered superficial 
wounds of the wrist when 
guardsmen opened fire during a 
campus demonstration. Canfora, 
charged with second degree riot, 
also was indicted last month by 
the regular Portage County 
grand jury on narcotics charges. 
Cormack, who had never at­
tended 'Kent State, was charged 
with first degree riot, interfe­Craig Morgan, student body president at Kent State University, 
rence with a fireman at the scene was arrested October 19 in connection with last May's disturbances at Kent State. The 21-year-old Morgan is a political science majorof a fire and tossing rocks at fire­
men. and was arrested on charges of second degree riot. (UPI) 

Shub, a former Kent student, shock wave on the campus. was indicted on charges of first At a news conference Tues­day, Morgan said students were
and second degree riot and an at­"afraid to do anything for thetempt to burn property. Ham­very reason they might harm themond, a junior at Kent State, case of those indicted."
was charged with second degree Morgan, who said he was ad-riot. 
vised by his attorneys not to dis-Craig Morgan of Upper Arling­cuss his case, talked about theton, Ohio, student body presi­
dent, was role of Chicago Seven attorney
arrested Monday by William Kunstler in a possiblePortage County sheriffs depu­defense of those who were in-ties. His arrest touched off a 

ND student produces reactive hydrocarbons 

of research at the Radiation may contribute to smog Ewn pure. unburned gasolines 
Laboratory, the two suggest that production according to Dr. the first step might involve a 
William H. Hamill, professor of "forbidden"· exdtation of the chemistry at the University of hydrocarbon molecules fauna Ill Notre Dame, and graduate stu­ordinary gasoline vapor. dent Paul Merkel. On the basis Merkel, who will begin post­
doctoral research at the Univer­sity of California at Riverside dieted. 


"We are attempting to see that people who need lawyers are put in touch with those who know lawyers," Morgan said. 
"Despite adverse publicity, Mr. Kunstler is nonetheless pro­bably one of the best attorneys in the nation." 
Kunstler spoke at Kent Man-day night and said that indict­ments were a form of "Mississip­pi justice." He said he would send attorneys to the campus to coordinate a defense of those indicted. 
Morgan emphasized that none of the person indicted to date were required to accept Kuns­tler's services. 
The Kent campus was calm Tuesday. 
Roaches gassed St. Ed's .. safe" 
The affair of the cockroach in St. Ed's Hall has been termina­ted successfully by Notre Dame's Maintenance Depart­ment. Equipped with two insect­icides, Jest the rodents be im­mune to one of the chemicals, the Notre Dame exterminators rid the hall of the pests. 
The situation at St. Ed's was compared to that which occurs periodically in South Bend, and other locales. It was not regar­ded as a major calamity by the Department. 
According to Maintenance, 
the pests were brought in with. 
merchandise purchases from 
downtown warehouses, with 
beer cases the probable principal 

culprit. The proximity of food 
intensified the problem. 
Pests are a periodic occurence; they are most common in the fall. No rodents were reported in the summer or spring, according to Maintenance. 
later this fall, recently earned his doctorate at Notre Dame for his work with the lowest excited 
state of simple hydrocarbons. This "triplet" state, as it is called, is expected to be highly­reactive and long-lived, and is thought to be important in chemical reactions occuring in biological systems. 
Although Merkel produced the excited state b,y hom barding a thin film of hydrocarbons at low temperature with low­
-energy electrons, other experi­ments in the laboratory indicate that it can also be produced in the atmosphere. In the presence of oxygen, ultra-violet light can trigger the production of this state in the hydrocarbons, which easily break up into component parts. The parts then react further with oxygen, producing the irritating, corrosive com­
pounds found in smog. 

The Cossack Hats are in! The Cossack Hats are in! 
Saturday, Oct. 24 8 PM .. 1 AM
In Blue with Gold trim yet! These imitation fur styles serve you well. Stop in soon and try yours on. 
Mishawaka Conservation Club 
Use your account... 
PAY ONE·THIRD 
In January 

PAY ON£-TH_, 
.In February 

PAY ONE-THIRD 
In March 
CA..YIIC 



~----------------------------------------------------------~ 
Sadie Haw"lns Dance 



