

Syrian Army troops Army tanks manned by regular Army units in northern Jordan. night. The "Voice of the Palestine spearheaded by a large force of troops racing to the border Revolution" :radio answered
"Our forces have complete The new attack came after
tanks and other armored vehicles shortly before the Amman Hussein's charge, which was
control of the area," the guer­King Hussein had accused Syria
swept into northern Jordan Radio announcement. broadcast by Amman Radio, by 
rilla radio said. 
of aggression on the basis of the 
along a broad front Sunday to "Our advanced positions have claiming that Israeli warplanes
Amman Radio said the regular attack Saturday night and
engaged the aggressive troops had entered the: conflict by fly­
join Palestinian commandcs in Syrian forces crossed into J or­warned other Arab chiefs of ing bombing missions in supportthe civil war against the govern­and stopped their progress," dan at about 5 p.m. ( ll a.m. state in messa.ges that he held of Jordanian troops near Ram­ment of King Hussein, Amman Amman Radio said in a com­EDT) along the entire length of them responsible for the results tha. An Israeli military spokes­nm nic ue from the Jordanian the northern sector of Jordan
Radio said. of the Syrian intervention in man in Tel Aviv denied themilitary governor, Marshal Habes which extends approximately 7S
The Jordanian government Jordan's civil war. 
report.
Al Majali. "A fierce battle is miles. The radio said a heavy Longworth, who witnessed th
radio announcement stressed In Beirut, a spokesman for the 
going on at present." artillery barrage from Syria :1ad attack Saturday night from the
that the second force to cross guerrilla organization AI Fatah
Only moments before the preceded the movement of the Jordanian side of the border and
the border into Jordan within 24 said the troops, tanks and artil­
Amman Radio announcement at force from Syria, which ap­saw the one Sunday from the
hours was composed of regular lery crossing from Syria into
9:20 p.m. (3:20 p.m. EDT) the peared headed toward the city Syrian side, described the troops
Syrian military forces. Jordan were from the Palestine
Palestinian radio broadcasting of Irbid, 40 miles north of Am­in the first attack as apparently
UP! correspondent Richard C. Liberation Army PLA and the
from the Syrain capittl of Dam­man and five miles west of Palestinian guerrillas based in Longworth reported from the ascus claimed the guerrillas had Ramtha, the border town where Syria. But he said Sunday that Syrian based AI Saiqah guerrilla 
organization and not the regularSyrian border town of Deraa accomplished a "sweeping vic­another armored force entered both the troops and the camou­Syrian army forces. 
that he saw at least 23 Syrian 
tory" Sunday over Jordanian Jordan from Syria during the flaged tanks in the second attack 
Amman radio said early Sun­were regular Syrian Army forces. 
day that Jordanian armorered"The Syrian rulers have re­units had beate:n the intrudingvealed the dimensions of a new forces back across the border
New 0-C rules at SMC 
conspiracy," Hussein said in his into Syria, inflicting heavy cas­cables to the other Arab Lead­ualties. But subsequent broad­ers. "We make all of you re­
By Mary Kay Davy campus decides to move off, she mission at any time and insist casts said fighting was con­
sponsible for the results of this 
cannot do so until her bed is upon the student moving back tinuing east olf Ramtha in a
A new reso1ution concerning serious aggression." 
fierce battle in which 30 Syrian
filled. to campus.
off-campus housing was passed In Washington, Secretary of tanks had been destroyed. 
-·When a student does move As it has been passed by the
by the SMC Student Assembly State William P. Rogers issued a The radio said 13 Syrian sol­off campus the school relin­Student Assembly, the resolu­
last Thursuay evening. The state­statement condemning the "in­diers had been captured in thequishes its role of "in loco pa­tion now moves to the Student
ment was formulated by Kathy vasion" of Jordan and urging the fighting, and it identified themrentis" and the student beomes a Affairs Committee for considera­
Barlow, Off-Campus Commis­Syrian government to order the by name. It said they would becitizen O'f South Bend with all its tion before final presentation to
sioner. forces to withdraw immediately. 
held until "the Syrians stop their
ramifications. the Board of Trustees. The latter
The resolution states: "We condemn this irrespon­
This new differs heavy shellings of Jordanian vil­
resolution will be meeting in October.
-All single students must live sible and imprudent intervention lages and positions" from the one passed last year in Miss Barlow express that she
in one of the campus residence from Syria into Jordan," he said. 
three major respects. expects the "main problem to be In another broadcast, Amman 
halls, in an approved off-campus "This action carries with it the 
; i'st the application has been in regard to the final clause of radio said three leaders of the
residence, or with their parents. danger of a broadened conflict. 
extended from seniors to juniors the statement." She also stated Central Committee of Palesti­
-Any student who is a junior, We call upon the Syrian govern­
and all students over 21 years of the possibility of the "bed rule" nian Organization have surren­
senior, or over 21 years of age rr.ent to end immediately this 
age. creating a problem in passage. dered to government troops.
has the right to live in approved intervention." 
Last year's resolutionoff-campus housing by making implied that 1 students couldapplication with the director of move off campus only whenhousing. The parents permission 

No end seen in auto strike
necessitated by a shortage ofmust be presented at the time of beds. The new "bed rule" de­the application if the student is mands only that the student'sunder 21. If however, a junior, 
(UPI)

bed be filled if she had previous­WASHINGTON 365,000 workers in the United "We both know what the prob­senior, or student over 21 who is 
United Auto Workers President
ly contracted to do so. States and Canada. lems are, but are unable to agreealready registered for a room on 
The third major difference lies Leonard Woodcock Sunday pre­"To be realistic, I must admit on the solutions." in the: fi11al clause of the resolu­dicted there will be no quick there is no quick settlement in Woodcock said a new, three 
settlement of the union's strike
tion. The earlier statement pro­view," the UAW president said year national contract could be
Soplls choose 
against General Motors Corpora­
vided that the college reserved in an interview on ABC tele­quickly worked out if both par­tion which has idled nearly vision's "Issues and Answers."
the right to re-consider its per-ties are willing, but the local issues could take a great deal ofThis eveing from 4:30 -6 

time. Both GM and the UAWp.m. in SMC's cafeteria sopho­have said there could be nomore will. elect 22 represen~a­resumption· of work until bothtives to comprise their 1970 the national and local plant con­class senate. 
tracts are agreed upon.
Each senator will represent More than 343,000 workers in approximately 20 girls," said Pat the United States and Canada

Haffey, secretary-treasurer. 
walked off their jobs at midnight"Titcre are a few districts with last Monday when bargaining onkss girls such as Augusta with the new contract broke off with
dg:·,i and Le Mans' Queen's both sides in disagreement on
~ourt with I 0. several points. Talks will resume
"But this year with our class in Detroit Tuesd<Jy, but Wood­so spread out, rather than equal­cock and other top U A W of­ize the districts, we are concen­ficials have been touring thetrating on getting the most con­country urging local unions tovenient combinations," she said. 

step up bargaining on local is­
"There's not th<Jt much 

sues.
work," said Mary Jo Ferlini, Irving Bluestone, co-directorvice-president. "Representatives of the union's GM department,attend bi-monthly meetings, re­

CPA discusses hall debates 
told local leaders in New Jerseyport to their constituents on 
By Don Capshaw Saturday that the union is deter­
pi<Jns, and participate in one of an election year. A third goal The Coalition for Political Kraniak, with suggestions mined to teach GM a lesson.
the· three standing committees: described was the general educa­agend<J, publicity, or social." Action met last Thursday night from other members, set up the tion of the students on campus "The UAW struck General 
Motors in 1945 for 119 days and 
These committees and their to discuss priorities for the com­tentative goals for the year. The toward political. 
sub-committtees on which any ing year. first one discussed the elimina­Kraniak and others felt that taught them a Jesson," Bluestone tion of the ROTC program on said, "Now, 25 years later, we're 
member of the class may serve John Kraniak, a Notre Dame apathy aamong the students was will be responsibk for co-or­senior, opened the meeting. The the Notre Dame campus. A sec­the main obstacle with which going to teach them another din:~ting Founder's Day (Feb. first order of business was dis­ond project was the kind of the CPA would have to deal. A Jesson." 
13) and spring prom plans. cussion of this year's organiza­activities to be conducted for membership drive and various Woodcock said he wouldn't use phraseology like "teaching
"We will also be considering a tion. Kraniak said that he felt this election year. talk -ins were established as the memorial for Father McGrath, that lack of organization was the Pessimistic about the success main goals of this project. The GM a lesson," in discussing a and plans for Sophomore Pa­sore spot in the projects of last of the Princeton Plan, members CPA also intends to organize strike. rents' Weekend, and the 1971 year and that he felt athat a new talked about the possibility of campus workers for projects "We're simply seeking a con­Freshn1an Orientation.'· added framework should be established holding debates in various halls dealings with problems outside tract with General Motors which Sue Wdtc, president. for the coming year. to make people aware that this is the perimeter of till' campus. reflects equity and reflects the 


Page 2 


Augusta house 
By Art Ferranti 
St. Mary's experimental 
"~ouse" invited SMC's fal'ully 
for a house warming yesterday 
to thank the faculty for making 
the house a reality. Augusta 

is a four story hall which 
serves as a house for 30 seniors and 6 sophomores. The girls prefer referring to Augusta as a 
"house." They feel that it gives them a great deal more freedom in a more eomforta ble and re­laxed atmosphere. 
As a result of the small number of students residing there, the house is spacious enough to include a completely 
equipped kitchen, a small library, and study rooms. Two 

Wagesdeman ded 
~~::tefo~:~~r aa!~~;~~a~ti~~a~~ of the Iron Curtain requesting 
application of historic GM arit11-the so-called "30 and out" re­metic,"Woodcock said. tire ment program, improved 
He defended the first year financing of the supplemental demand by the union for a 61.5 unemployment benefits program cents wage raise, including the and a family dental plan. In that 26 cents in cost of living raises listing, Woodock made no refer-due to the workers under the ence to restoration of quarterly previous contract. cost of living increases with no 
He listed as the union's main limit rather than the present demands a general wage increase, annual increases with a limit. 
Labor Secretary James Hodgson said yesteruay unemployment
! REFRIGERATORS FOR RENT ! 
•
: Unlimited Supply 
: nil'! ~0 MOOEl NO. £W1 
• GDecortltor
! $7.00 per month 
•
: Share the cost :with your roommates
•
: $10 Damage Depo~it Fee
•
: iRefundablel
• 
: PLUS Compensation for
• 
: Vacation Periods Additional 33.50 refunded after each 
• semest er upon return of refngerator.· : Example: Have refrigerator for entire year : and we will refund the $10.00 plus an : additional $7.00 -Like having 1 month 
: FREI:.
•

: You can rent or buy
• 

: Delivery. Service, Maintenance, & Pick-Up ARE FREE : 
·J~ ,..ou.sell!v~
'E•'ue ~u coLoR Faao:!S



! COMPACT COOL, INC. ! 
NOW THRU THE 22nd ~f IN "THROBBING" COLOR

: another scrl'icc of Student Serl'ices Commission : 
: Contact: DICK GORMAN : 




~MUrHr~S 

: 7757 or 6723 : 
ONLY FOR THE MATURE ADULT WHO UNDERSTANDS

: 4th Floor LaFortune 4 -6 : 
PROOF OF AGE

: or 123 Farlev • 
REQUIRED 

······················---·····----······························ 1 
floors are entirely dedicated to lounges. 
Two of the girls living there, Marilyn Beeker and Bernadette Volpe, cited the trustees and administration as being the 
"most responsible ·for making this experi men tal house pos­sible." Sisler Mary Elizabeth re­sides there and helps to direct mo~t of the girls' activities. Miss 
Beeker said of the house that "the best attribute is the flex­ibility in house management made,possible by the small size of the ahll." 
She also wished 'to invite all students to "gab fests" with faculty members on Friday nights which will be scheduled later. 
Monday. September 21, 1970

THE OBSERVER 

Soviet Drobe hits moon 
MOSCOW (UPI) _ The Soviet Union's unmanned Luna 
16 

spacecraft landed gently on the moon yesterday capping a !4 month comeback effort for the Soviet lunar exploration pro­
gram. 
From West Germany, a spokcsman for the Bochum Observatory said Luna 16 trans­
nittcd to earth test pictures "of excellent quality" soon aftn its landing. 
"At 8:18 a.m. Moscow time, 

l: 18 a.m.. EDT, the automatil' station Luna 16 made a soft lanuing on the lunar surface in the area oT the Sea of Fertility in accordanc~.: with its flight pro­gr<llll," the official Tass news agency said. 
That announcement, quickly relayed over Moscow Radio, gave Soviet citizens their first good news from the moon race since Zond 6 whipped through lunar orhit briefly in November 
1968, and fad~.:d from mrmory 




Congress united on POW's 
Communist party official for
WASHINGTON (UPI) Al-

contempt of Congress.
though no less divided over the 
House Speaker John W.

Vietnam conflict, congressional 
McCormack arranged the joint
hawks and doves will unit mo­
session of Congress on the
mentarily this week to demon­
theory that it might help re­
strate the nation's deep concern 
latives of American citizens learn
over the plight of American pri­
the names and condition of U.S.
soners of war. 
soldiers captured in the war.
The show of unity will come 
Borman has traveled to the

Tuesday when the House and 
capit<Ils of nations on both sides 
these ~overnrnents to ask North ~~~~~;~~~ tre~~:~n~~ e~:;~,;i~~~~~s ~~ Vietnam to provide more infor­mation the prisoners and to
build worldwide puhlic support for the U.S. servicemen held 
pledge humane treatment of captive by North Vietnam or the 
them. Viet C'ong. 
Before Borman's appeareance, 

On the business side this the Senate planned to renew week, Senate Democratic leader Mike Mansfield is considering a seconu attc.mpt to cut off Senate debate on the electoral reform bill and the House will decide whether or not to cite a U.S. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) 


• 
may contmue to rise for the next month or two, but "b; the end of the year th~.:re will be a : significant improvement." : Hodgson described the unem­
• ployment s.ituati<1n as 4 "r~.:asonably stable really now
! 
• 
for the last four months," hut he said the 5.1 per cent jobless
: figun.: in S~.:ptember might exper­ience "some slight rise" bd'ore
: 

hiring catches up with resurgent
•
: production. Asked in a UP! interview if he
•
: expected th~.: turn around in uncmploy ment to coincide with
• 
: the November election, the new Lahor Department chief said ''if
• 
: 

•. 
: 
: 
: 

•: 
: 
~dlt.a

• 
with the rise of America's Apol­lo missions. 
The Soviets did not announce immediately details of_ what tasks Luna 16 would perform or whetehr it would attempt a re­
turn to earth, the first evr crachieved by an automatic craft from the surface of a celestial body. 
Tass said the spacecraft "has starkd making studies of the moon's surface." It pinpointed the landing spot in sclcnographic coordinates as 0 degrees 41 minutes south latitude and 56 degre~.:s 18 minutes cast long­itude.. 
Luna 16 was launched a week ago Saturday and was guided into lunar orbit lat~.: in th~.: week hy Soviet space controllers. 
Its predecessor, Luna 15, raced Neil ARmstrong's Apollo I I mission to the moon in July I Y6LJ. The Soviets never pr~.:eise­ly reported its outcome at that time, and yesterday referred to it ~s. h_aving b~eo.~Je "the_ moon's artificial satellite for a time: . 
Western space experts said It ~ra:~hed In an attempt t~ land <thead of the Armstrong miSSIOn. 
The last Soviet spacecraft to achieve lunar landing successful­
ly was Luna 13 in Decem her 1966, which probed the surfac~.: with a metal rod and x rays. The last vehicle to touch the moon was the Apollo 12 landing mis­sion of ovember 1969, during which astronauts Charles Conrad <tnd Richard (;ordon spent more than 31 hours on the surface. 
The Soviets began their Luna series in January 1959 with Luna I. The program achieved many firsts. 
I una <) accomplished the first soft landing on the moon in February l'J66. Luna !Ohecamc th~.: moon's first artificial satel­lite in April of that year. 
debate on a proposed con­stitutional am~.:ndmcnt providing for direct popular election of presidents. 
The House, after considering a score of minor bills early in the week, will meet Wednesday to take up the recommendation of its Internal Security Committee that Arnold S. Johnson, public 
reialions  director  of  the  U.S.  
, 'on1munist  party,  be  cited  for  
contempt of Congress.  

Johnson refused to answer the commitltee's questions on June I I d dng its investigations into operatilms of the New Mobiliza­tion Committee to End the War, 
an amalgam of gr·,tlps that has sponsored anti war ,,rotests. 
it precedes election day, that'll be great. If it doesn't, we can anti~.:ipate that it will be impro­ving shortly thereafter." 
Hodgson also estimated that about one third of current un­employment was the result of defense spending cuts rather than the general slump in busi­ness. In that connedion, he said, the average period of idleness for jobless workers in recent months was eight to nine weeks, while the average in 1958 and 1961 was 17 weeks or longer. 
Although there is a great deal of "transitional unemploy­ment," Hougson said, there also are "areas where there are rather deep and rather substantial un­employment." He said the Labor D~.:partment had already set aside $25 million in manpower training funds for the seven most distressed states California, Oregon, Washington, Alaska, Rhode Island, Maine and Michigan-to pay for public ser­vice employment and additional job skill training programs. 
FOOTBALL SATURDAY CHILO CARE ND, SMC STUDENTS; I\1UCH EXPE RIENCE $1 PER HOUR AND 
FAMILY RATES CALL 272-6187 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 





Draft deemed more discriminatory 
By Mike Keefer 
Although the army contains all minority groups blacks are the largest and will be con­
sidered here. Presently, the per­centage of black Americans en­listed in the armed forces is I0.5, or less than the percentage in the national population. Ad­mittedly, when drafted blacks are counted, the percentage is much higher, but this is because the black man rarely has the opportunity for deferments that is afforded white youths. How­ever, in an all-volunteer force, this increase would be erased, since all would be in the military by choice alone. The argument that an increase in benefits would appeal solely to blacks is unfounded, because there are millions of other Americans whose economic status would make an improved military life very attractive. Ther President recently s~d, "It supposes that raising military pay would in some way slow up or stop the flow of white volunteers even as it stepped up the flow of black volunteers. Most of our volun­teers now are white. Better pay and better conditions would ob­viously make military service more attractive to black and white alike." Certainly the per­centage of blacks would rise a little, but not much above the national average. Also, black leadeJrs are attempting to per­suade young blacks against fight­ing in a predominantly white army for what they describe as white causes-with some success. 

The Gates Commission coverage of this question is quite goo, and for further insight it should be referred to. 
I think the suggestion that an all-volunteer army would even­tually pose a threat to our free­dom is completely without sub­stance. Briefly, the feeling is that once there is a large military 
••eOIMn t'l' In~ ~ht••• 
force in this country made up of volunteers, their allegiance would shift more to their im­mediate military leaders than to civilian authority. Then, at an opportune time, top-ranking of­ficers could simply employ their men, occupy public places, and seize power. Those who support such a position invariably draw 

Cairo police chief resigns 
CAIRO, ILL. (UPI) -Police Chief Roy Burke, citing a "grow­ing cancerous situatio ·1 in Cairo," handed in his resignation Satur­day night at a meeting of the city council. 
"As the administrator of the Cairo Police Department these past seven months," Burke said in his letter of resignation, "I have witnessed a growing cancer­ous situation in Cairo. This con­dition of frustration, fear, de­pression and near economic bankruptcy of the community has caused many citizens to ad­vocate violence, hatred and ani­mosity toward his fellow man in comparisons to Latin Ar.1erican governments, which change quite often. However, a political 
scientist or an historian looking 
at the comparison would reveal a 
different conclusion. 
To begin with, in Latin Am­
erica we are discussing govern­
ments that are at most unstable. 
For centuries, their leaders ·have 
risen and fallen depending on 
military support. Furthermore, 
the population of such countries 
has a history of low economic 
stature, and for this reason 
quickly shift support if promises 
are not kept or more illusory 
ones made. On a more ethnic 
note, only the Spanish people 
have the peculiar characteristic 
known as "castillo"-they are 
uneasy by nature. 
Certainly, none of these quali­
ties seem applicable to our way 
of life. Indeed, if there was ever 
one characteristic of the Ameri­
can military, it is that the mili­
tary has been a tool of the people, subject to civilian con-trol-including the times when have long been commanded by career officers. And, as Pres. Nixon points out, "a coup would necessarily come from the top officer ranks, not from the enlisted ranks, arid we already have a career-officer corps. It is hard to see how replacing draftees with volunteers would make officers more influential." I can't see that conscript armies would be less susceptible to a coup than one consisting of volunteers, and I cite the recent takeover in Greece as an ex­ample. 
The problem of the cost of an all volunteer army I consider least important. Estimates range upwards to $17 billion per year with no one able to really ap­proximate well because of the obviously hypothetical nature of the problem. The Gates Com­mission did a great deal of re­search and came up with the figure of $3.3 billion increase in the Defense budget for the year such a program would go into 
our army was all volunteer r------·-------~ 
(pre-1948 and peace years). Pe­culiar to the American people is a fierce love of the freedoms guarenteed them by the consti­tution. In fact, so jealous are we of those freedoms that we have gone so far recently as to deprive others of their rights only to exert our own. It's truly difficult to imagine a nation of 200 mil­lion people, bred in a revolution of blood, submitting to any force-be it external or internal. 
Join MANASA 

Help fight Menta/Illness 
First Organhationai Meeting Tolllight 127 Nieuwland Science Hall 7:30p.m. 
Agostino captured 
NAPLES (UPI) -~ Police an­nounced the arrest yesterday of a man believed to be "Agostino the M,ad" a daredevil motor­cyclist who turned Naples upside down last month. 
They said his real name is Antonio Mcllino, and described him as a 23 year old dweller in a Naples shanty town. 
The antics of Agostino touch­ed off rioting in Naples for several days. The mad motor­cyclist used a souped up mach­inc to chase policemen, outrun squad cars, leap sidewalk furn­iture and terrify pedestrians. 
place of a democratic procedure times of emergency· of redress toward those respon-There have been scattered sible for such conditions." incident-es of violence-observers 
Burke's resignation, effective say over I ,000 rounds have been 
immediately, came after the pre-fired-during the last year but no dominantly black United Front one has been killed. of Cairo rejected Saturday a Burke said his pleas for state 
joint proposal by the Cairo help in controlling violence Retail Merchants' Association· "have been fruitless" and "for and the city council to provide. one to prelude that Cairo is jobs for blacks in return for an foreign to some state officials end to an 18 month old econo-would be an understatement." mic boycott of some white Be left however, with praise owned businesses. fo Lt. Gov. Paul Simon, Cairo 
In his resignation, Burke cri-cit. administrators and the men ticized state officials for their of the Cairo police force. refusal to provide additional law Burke, the third police chief 
enfureement ~d to C~ro ~1idt~o~r~9~i~g~n~in~C~ru~·r~o~s~in~c~e~J~u~n~e~,~~I~n~a~d~d~il~i~o~n~,~t~h;e~a~r~m~e~d~f~o~r~c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1969 

Neapolitans glad to sre authority detied. They mcl~~:Jd on the streets to jeer police and in some cases throw rocks and bottles at them. The police replied with tear gas and baton charges. More than 50 persons were injured in three nights of rioting that began August 24 and about I SO ;~rrested. Agostino the Mad tore around the city on a Ducati 125CC bike that could exceed I00 miles per hour. He embellished speed with acrobatics and daring touches that had spectators gape. Police officials expressed & theory he was paid by a gang of thieves lO
In the process he picked up divert police attentio while theythousands of fans among the robbed he> uses and shops. 
Swedish socialists lose sea 
STOCKHOLM (UPI) Pre­
mier Olof Palme's ruling Social 
Democrats lost their Parliamen­
tary majority in Sweden's gener­
al elections yesterday, but Com­
munist gains saved the govern­
ment from falling, according to 
unofficial results. 

A computer calculation by 
the Swedish Broadcasting Corp­
oration gave the Social Demo­
crats 46.3 per cent of the nation­
al vote and a total of 166 seats 
in the new unicameral 350 mem­
ber Riksdag Parliament. 

The computer showed major 
H H 0 (j 
v v 
H H 
0 0 
v v 
H SOUTH BEND-THE SHERLAND BUILDING, 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STkEET H 
: Jlouse of Visi~li ~~ : 
o The House ol Vision, Inc. o 
v v 
·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~· 

THE OBSERVER. Monday, September 21. 1970
Page 4 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
GAETANO M. De SAPIO. Publisher
DAVID C'. BACH, Editor 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 

Father Robert Griffin ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
BOB DEPUY 

Om: evening, about a year ago, a group of guys wood or blessing yourself with the Trinity. You do 
and their dates were partying in my pad in the this not out of superstition, but because you lry to 
Rector's room of Keenan. It was a candle-lit affair, fmstrate the occasions on which life can screw you 
and wine was being passed about in paper cups. with its ironies. The Grel~ks knew of a pride that 
The mood o( the company had become mellow brings down the vengeance of the gods. The Irish 
enough so that we had passed from the attempts at know of a presumption that is similarly destruc­
witty conversation and had begun to sing, prin­tive. That is why an Irish mother constantly 
cipally under the direction of a couple of guitar­placates her deity by adding phrases like, "if God 
ists, chaps named Jim and Dave: and of a young and the Blessed Virgin spare us," to any conversa­
tenor named Bob Depuy, star of the Sunday five tion that touches on the lives of her loved ones 
o'clock Mass group in the Keenan-Stanford Chap­and family. 
el. It was with a sense of life's irony. like that of an 
Among the caterwauling of the evening, there Irish mother, that I remembered my words on the 
was an authentically beautiful moment when Bob day that followed that party, when I stood in the 
sang, to Jim's and Dave's accompaniment. the intensive care room of the St. Joe Hospital, where 
moving old spiritual, "Poor, Wayfarin' Stranger." the young guitarist Jim lay seriously injured from 
My comment, at the end, was in words as an auto accident in which another young man had 
maudlin as these: "I hope," l said in a sudden, been killed. In those first few moments, it was not 
brilliant stroke of bad taste, "that when I am dear how closely Jim had been brushed by death, 
gathered in death to the bosom of my Com­but one fact was e·rident: given the hurly-burly of 
munity, the two of you will come to the place things, it is never clear, in any friendship between 
where I am resting among the lillies, and sing that young and old, who will survive to mourn the 
song. It will give more rest to my spirit than the other's passing. 
Aves and Paters of the entire Congregation." In the months since then, Jim has recovered 
These words should not have been spoken. I am from his smashed hip and other injuries; hut 
not, I trust, the kind of mope who plots drama for tomorrow, Septembt:r 20th, both of us will stand 
the events that will accompany his own demise, at the graveside of the young tenor, Bob Depuy. 
though I hope it will be a high-class affair, with Together with Bob's family and other friends, weconsiderably less coldness than some priests' fun­will commend the cancer-ridden body of thiserals I have seen. 
gen tie boy to the peace of the eternal dust and toI don't know why I spoke the silly words. 
the house of his eternal Father, where Bob will bePerhaps I was suffering from a touch of croup that 
a poor, wayfarin' stranger no more. Bob Depuy, aged twenty, the latest of theevening; perhaps it was a bit of undigested dinner young men of Notre Dame to die ... and onebeef that reminded me of my personal imperma­wonders if God could not have loved this youngnence. But l realized my mistake immediately life enough to spare it ... if, in the twisted passionwhen a couple of lads shushed me up, since it was of a world overshadowed by the Cross, He couldclear that a girl in the corner was quietly weeping. 
not have it:t His own best beauty survive until afterThe words were more than morbid; they were the coming of its noon.
also reckless. Perhaps you need to have an Irish To the distress of our minds, an answer to ourmother to realize that there are contingencies that wonderment has not yet been forthcoming.
must never be mentioned without rapping on 
Anne Marie Tracey ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 


·····················The Academic Council 
Besides discussion of a possible political recess next month, Notre Dame's Academic Council meets 
this afternoon to discuss student membership on that body. Having worked under this system in our 
community government at St. Mary's, we students can testify to both its worth and its potential val~c. 
Once a structure is established, however, as ours was just three years ago, it is imperative to realize that our efforts are not rewarded; they must just now begin. Formal acceptance of a system docs not come with the nod of approval by the Board of Trustees, but comes insll!ad with the institutionalization of that structure as a valid, operating reality. Before this process can be completed at St. Mary's we Will have to resolve deficiencies that are present in three general areas. 
Institutionalization must initially involve recognition and acceptance of the system by all facets in the college: students, faculty, and administration. This necessarily implies a willingness to work through the structure as it is set up (i.e. tri-partite consideration of legislation and policy). _ 
Secondly, each segment must accept not only its own role and responsibility in com mumty government, but that of the other segments of the college as well. This means there m~st be mutua trust, respect, and honesty for the achievement of any substantial progress. In ke~pmg w1th ou responsibility this year, students hope to help establish procedures for their comnut~ces t_ha_t WI encourage a fair exchange, as well as actively contribute to solutions for issues under the Junsdtctton ' their committees. 
Finally there must exist a continuous flow of opennes.~ and cooperation; without it there can be r 
effective ~nd beneficial evolution of the college as a truly educational institution. 
Is it not the role of a college or university to instill in the student not just the love of learning, but tt 
desire to apply it to, and participate in, his or her world? If so, it is only reasonable that she be allowec 
to make an active transition from theory to application with guidance and experience of faculty an( 
administration. Why stop an education half way? 
Business Manager: Bruce Rieck  Sports Editor: Terry Shields  
Advertising Manager: Bruce Barker  Associate Editors: Sue Bury, Ann  The  Observer  is published daily  
Campus Editor: Glen Corso News Editor: Jim Holsinger Assoc. News Editor: Ed Ellis SMC News Editor: Jeanne Sweeney Features Editor: T.C. Treanor  Conway, Steve Hoffman, Dave La_mmers, Cliff Wintrode Night Editors: Glen Corso and Don Ruana Layout D~ign: Don Ruane  during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchaseu for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame  
Headlines: Tom Bornholdt, Floyd Kez!!le, Tim Burke  Layout: Marilyn Becker, Joe Abell, Denise McNamara, Cliff Wintrode  Ind., 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.  

"No I'm n<>t a Certified Public Accountant, damnlt!" 
Campus Opinion 
(The fallowing was submitted by Walt Secada and Lance Blasius.) 
Most of this country's people are loosing touch with the complex 
problems facing them. The conservative has committed himself to 
solving the problems through a set of "traditional" American values. 
The liberal wishes to confront these in the perspective of a different 
value system. Many radicals have moved from these positions to a 
nihilistic view which denies that there can be anything good in the 
status quo. The problem with all these views is that they attempt to 
solve problems of practical judgement from an intangible personal 
basis. 
Unfortunately, most decisions in government and all societies 
spring from other than moral considerations. They issue from other 
forces and presssures-notably pragmatic in nature. Here, the radical 
often offers a more honest interpretation to the problems in that he 
recognizes the limitations inherent in proffering simplistic individual 
answers to their resolution, when the extremely intricate society of 
which the problems are symptomatic will not permit such analysis. 
The recognition of one's failures in such attempts is pard mount in 
any form of self-criticism. Furthermore, one can then extend these 
views to the purposeful machinations of society -hence the term 
"institutionalized." 
Whereas the obvious faults of our institutions should be exposed, 
and the situation rectifies, the very people qualified to some degree 
to undertake such a task become lost -denying the "exi~tence of 
problems which do not allow analysis, being unsure of the "proper" 
plan and hence wanting more time for study, or saying that the 
momentum renders the problem unsolvable. 
We will confine ourselves to those who are lost because of 
excessive guilt feelings. They are unsure of exactly what their role is 
since they come from a background which has either directly or 
indirectly contributed to the problem. 
Examples abound. 

Malcolm X, in his autobiography, writes of a white college girl 
who was so shook up after hearing him speak that she followed him 
from Boston to New York to ask: "What can I do?" His first reply 
was: "nothing". After going to Mecca, he continues, he wished that 
he could see her again to tell her that she did have a place in the 
black man's struggle. Her job would be to fight racism wherever and 
however she could in her situation in life. This shows a certain 
duality. 
First, the rightful rage felt by Malcolm X was misdirected at one 
who truly wished to help. Her place in life could not be helped and 
tl:e problem was to go from that point on to what she could do. 
Second, we all have a role to play in the radical restructuring of this 
complex society. For unless we all participate, the solutions tend to 
b~come polarized and simplistic. This role, moreover, mu~t be realisitcally defined. Where a vacuum exists, one could play a stop-gap role defering. to a "better qualified person" when the time comes. 
For example, in lieu of a "suitable" spokesman for any group, no one should have to apologize for expounding the views of say the black man, women's liberation or the oppression of the Third World. Translating the rhetoric of the "revolutionary" to the language used by "the people" is another task. Indeed, one criticism of the revolutionary is that he gets so caught up in his own rhetoric that no one else understands. 
Black studies are sorely needed. While blacks are the most qualified to teach any course in this field, refusal to admit that some whites could have some taste for black culture which is fit for sharing smacks of elitisw. To make an analogy: to learn the basics of poetry one does not need a specialist. Indeed, to place him in such a position is a waste of his time. Rather, someone whose expertise matches the need is given the post. Then the expert refines the notions and builds upon what was learned. This does not mean that we settle for a second-rate individual. Rather we use him where he does the most good -or the least harm, depending on one's perspective. 
Essentially, our thesis has been the recognition of failure is necessary. But allowing oneself to become prey to guilt or rage is self defeating. Both arise from the attempt to apply a simplistic moral approach to problems which arise because society knows no morality. What is needed, rather, is a frank evaluation of what role one can play in the move to liberate us from ourselves. 





THE CONTINUING CIRCUS
II 
..,writer 
A Candid Interview with God 

Easy Writer after months of negotia­tion n, was able to secure this interview with the supreme Deity Saturday after­noon, after the exciting conclusion of the Northwestern game. 
Observer: God, what a gam<!! 
God: It certainly was. I hope T didn'c 
spoil it for you by anticipating the plays~ 
Observer: No, my roomates do that all the time. They played in high school. God: Yes. I know. Observer: Well now, to business. How 
do you feel about the progress the Church has been making? God: Well, as I said in the last Fatima letter ... 
Observer: Er, I don't think our readers are familiar with the contents of the letter ... 
God: It hasn't been read'! I know men are apathetic but ... Observer: I don't think its been re­leased by the Vatio.;an,sir. God: Hmmmm, .Well I'LL have to speak to My Deputy about that and see what's holding things up. Observer: Do you support the Viet­nam war? God: Of course not. Hasn't my Depu­

br Pete Peterson 
ty made it ckar that participation in any war for any reason is immoral? That's alwavs been Our position. 
Observer: Well, not exadly. He asked us all to pray for Peace, though. 
God: Is that what those mi mea­graphed letters were? I don't usually read the stuff that comes in hulk rate. I have angels to answer that type of corres­pondence. 
Observer: You're kidding! God: Would I deciev..: you? Observer: I guess not. What about birth control? God: A very weighty question. What did my Deputy say about that? 
10bserver: He said it was a sin. 
God: Ex cathedra? 
Observer: I don't think so. 
God: Oh, okay. Yes, I'd say that pretty well jibes with my feelings on the subject. What else did John say? 
Observer: John't 
God: Yes, John. John XXIII, the Pope? You know, I'm really surprised he didn't come out more strongly against the war. 
(At this point, our man chose to conclude the interview.) 

by Denn.. W•ll AnotherMan's Country 

Observ• Fonlp COtTespo.-.nt 
SALZBURG, AUSTRIA -Living in another man's country is a different experience. You eat new foods (teaming that hamburgers and pizza are uniquely American while coke is universal), wear clothes that label you as a foreigner, and you find-the most poignant of all your discoveries-that you cannot communicate with another human being. Depending on the language, a resident in a foreign country may get by with pig-English ("Me want go hotel") or he may be reduced to grunts and gestures in order to indicate what he desires. In any case, one is never completely assured that one's new-found friend has even the vaguest idea of what one wishes to say. You may ask for a restaurant and get a house of ill repute-which really isn't all that bad, come to think of it, unless you are a woman. Then, you might have problems. 
Living in another man's country involves a certain sense of history. You have to live with what your country has done to his country, like in the latest world war-and you find that maybe he isn't exactly convinced that it was his side that started the whole dam thing anyway. One elderly woman told me that the future holds no suprises for her, because "It doesn't matter who comes into our country, the Russians or the Americans. The Americans have done their share of bombing, too." Right then it was time to say something to the effect that it would be nice it everybody stayed in their own country and left the other guy alone, that the world would be a far better place if we learned that other people have the same powers of reason and insight that have been given to all men, that other men have the intelligence, indeed, the responsibility, to choose their own course of action. 
How to be an American abroad without being obtrusive and without becoming a European: that is the dilemma. It is hard to decide which is more despicable: an American who shoves his nationality, boorishly, to the forefront, or one who affects the mannerisms of an Englishman or some other foolish thing. Mark Twain once wrote about an American who was exhibiting bad manners abroad: "This fellow said: 'I am a freeborn sovereign, sir, an American, sir, and I want everybody to know it.' He did not mention that he was a lineal decendant of Balaam 's ass, but everybody knew that without his telling it." Some might consider the other course; that is, to "drop" one's nationality for the sake of making it comfortably in another land. This might seem to be practical and realistic, until one experiences the indignation of being given the finger by a woman driving along in her little car as one tries to hitch-like I said, Europeans are old pros at spotting Americans. The best course to take is not to push your Americanism, certainly, but not to forget it either for we are what we are, in spite of ourselves. To put it simply: one has to be oneself. Without affectations and without a false sense of superiority, even Americans are accepted by the world. Which says something about the world, perhaps; or perhaps says something about the Americans. 
One final observation about living outside your own borders for a time-you learn that people are people. National characteristics are nonexistent. If you have heard some sayings to the effect that "this people is friendly," or "that people is well--mannered" or "Europeans as a whole are more cultured than Americans," forget them. They are lies. It is as though one were to declare that "Southerners are bigots," or "Blacks are shiftless"-people are people. Black or white, European or American, we are all shaped by time and by fate, and by the same, all-encompassing human condition-we all eat, itch, sleep, drink, make love, and defecate. Not in that order, necessarily, but we all do these things. If you let yourself be guided by general description of a people which has been pronounced by whoever it is who makes up such lies, you will find yourself a fool. Worse than that, you will find yourself a disillusioned fool, for nothing and no one will ever be as you think they should. Think of Frenchmen as being nothing more than people who speak French, for example, and then you will be well-prepared to decide for yourself, and on your own terms, whether there are such ridiculous things as "national characteristics." If you lose pre-conceived notions about others, they wili do the same for you. It is that simple. And the next time someone tries to force-feed you that drivel about "culture" and "manners being the exclusive property of Europeans", ask him if he has ever tried to use the bathroon in a French train station. 

Ghost of Barnum Alive at Notre Dame 
The ghost of huckerstering P. T. Bar­num was resurrected over the weekend, and joined Fr. Sorin, the Gipper, Bass 
Rumore and other famous phantoms in floating around Notre Dame this week­end. The center of this particular spiritual gyre was the Athletic and Convocation Cetner where the Ringling Brothers put up their tents. 
It was the one hundredth Anniversary. That was very important. It was the hundredth anniversary of Barnum or cir­cuses or the Ringling Barnum -Bailey merger of corporationf or something. You weren't supposed to worry about it. It was just there, in big, circus-red letters. One hundred. 
One hundred years is a good age for 'most anything; very few institutions are so unperishable. One hundred years is a particularly good age for childhood, and for childhood's end. 
A circus is for seven-year-olds. 
Seven is a goodod nhmber to be. When you're seven, the whole world's a fruit­cake. The good guys are mommy and daddy and Uncle George and here. The Bad Guys are dripping disgustingly and are there. And good is an icc cream cone. And bad is a spanking. 
How many seven-year-olds want to run away and join the circus? I don't know. A whole bunch. Water the elephants, huge and majestic. Train the horses, pure and beautiful. Be a clown; wear a gay and happy smile every minute you're out there. Or stick out your tongue at death on the flying trapeeze. 
The circus revisited isn't the same. No, more than that, it's a crude and frighten­ing parody. The elephants are not huge and majestic, but massive and smelly. The horses are snappish and their coats are spotty. The only gay people are running a liberation campaign. And the men on the flying trapeeze continue to defy death, but what was courage eleven years ago is maudlin exhibitionism now. 

Pretense is no fun anymore; not if your best friend's pregnant and looking for an abortion and the g.irl down the hall is doing drugs. This place --St. Mary's-­Notre Dame is is childhood's end; Away from the Apron Strings becomes Better Run Through the Jungle. And it's fright­ening. And it's sad. 
Go to the circus. Close your eyes. Reopen them. Clos•~ them again. Open them again. They refuse to focus like they did when you were seven. The candy cotton has a sickly taste, and it isn't sweet anymore. 
There was a basketball game with all the players riding unicycles. They were good. They were very good. And we could gawk at them for a long time, because people aren't supposed to play baksetball on unicycles. So have we de­fied nature? Hip, hip, hurrah, P. T.; you 
have brought down the gods in humble 
abayance! And now, for your next act, 
will you eliminate He:ll? 
The clowns were the saddest things. 
Old and sad, they ambled around with 
painted smiles on their faces. There are 
precious few satisfactions in that. One 
sells his time and ta.lent. Not the things 
that make him a man. 
But for a seven-ye:ar-old, the circus is 
the epitome of all that is good! 

There were an awful lot of seven-year­aids of all chronological ages at the circus last night, as there are at the circus every night. The stare with vacant eyes at the lion tamer sticking his head through the toothless gums. Mangy cats go through the paces. Close your eyes and pretend the tiger really ate twelve maharajahs instead of eminently butcherable horse: meat. Or watch the ·elephants. The circus is a step crueller than the zoo; in the zoo the animals are merely limited in that which they are able to do; in the circus, they are put through paces totally alien to their natures. Pretend the animals don't wish they were dead. 
Folk Festival pleasant, unstartli•1g 
by Lefty Ruschmann 
A football weekend at Notre Dame! Halls look like mausoleums and people like gypsies. The entire student body has holed up in their rooms. The near­est girl is the one from back East and 
Oops, this an away football weekend. It's one of those autumnal tinie warps where nothing happens, nothing is planned, and the lucky ones are out of here for the weekend. 
Fortunately, the student union took heart and pitied the lost souls of du Lac, offering an evening of free folk music. The entertainment, which lasted more tha.1 three hours, drew an overflow crowd to the hot, stuffy ballroom of the Stu­dent Center. Appearing in an informal concert atmosphere were many regulars of the campus coffeehouse circuit. Des­pite some small difficulties with the lights, and a microphone system which makes a Stentorian voice sound like a mumble, few in the audience (whose diversity and overall enthusiasm were surprising) seemed to mind. 
The program was opened by Ellen 

Zurikert, whose pleasant rendition of 
current folk songs went over well. I 
cannot say the same of the fellow who 
followed her on stage. In fact, I wound 
up retreating to my room and watching 
the Giants and Bears attempt to play 
football. However, there were few 
attempts by the rest of the acts to 

persuade me to catch the Creature Fea­
ture on T.V. 
Lew McKenzie didn't mention that the 
New York Thruway was closed, or that 
there were a lot of freaks out there 

(which there weren't) but he still did a 
convincing imitation of Arlo Guthrie's 
"Coming Into Los Angeles.'' His polished 
style also did justice to the songs of the 

Credence Clearwater Revival. Much of Rick Homan's "usual" material was used by acts which preceded him; nevertheless he pleased the crowd with selections from Tom Paxton, and a rendition of "Ferry Cross the Mersey," theme song of what some critics consider the crummiest film made in the middle '60s. 
Closing my eyes during Patty Larkin's performance, I heard a reasonably good (approximation) of the Joni Mitchell style-sweet and poetic. Patty was by far the best female singer of the evening. 
But my personal favorites were Paul Guernsey and Jim Moran. They do blue grass music and do in a way you cannot help but enjoy. Guernsey plays one of the best banjos around and his guitar work is remarkable. Their version of "Foggy Mountain Breakdown," '*hich has almost become a Guernsey & Knorr trademark, evoked a well-earne:d roar from the audience, proving that I was not alone in my opinion of this talented duo. 
Admittedly, many attended the con­cert because it was not only free, but there were few, if any, activities schedul­ed over the weekend. A privileged few had dates to bring, but the majority came to La Fortune alone (maybe they could not stomach yet another football game that evening.) Those who attended came back at least satisfied with the show; the few who didn't were not taken for any of their money. 
Obviously the caliber of entertainment hardly equalled the major-league talent on display at the Convo concerts, but at least those who came to La Fortune were in a free and casual mood. For once, the atmosphere of a musical event did not stand in the way of a good time. The Student Union might, in planning Social Commission events, keep this fact in mind this year. 

-----------------~ 

THE OBSEIWIIt 


Founding Fathers feared conscription 
ability to use that talent as well.  existence. The  cost  was  always  Viet Nam is in large part respon­ communications  between levels  
effect. Althought this increase is sizable, a great deal of the cost already incurred would subse­quently be eliminated. The Com­mission felt, and rightly so, that society pays a great price in allowing her bright young men to work for two years in the military at perhaps 1/5 of what their salary would be in civilian life, and society's subsequent in- Further, the national budget must annually set aside $6 bil­lion to pay ex-servicement a pension for their participation in the draft. The Department of Defense estimates that $75 0 mil­lion a year could be saved in training costs-a figure that per­haps should be higher. This nation, as so often men­tioned before, has had a volun­teer army for the majority of its  borne by the taxpayer, and glad­ly, because it was a small price to pay for security. The cost to return to such a standard is admittedly substantial, but cer­tainly not gross and the rewards far outweigh the penalties. The price our society has pain in • lives, property damage, and frus­tration over the past l 0 years cannot be equated in dollars and cents. The draft, coupled with  sible, and if it can be removed by charging the taxpayer a few dollars more every year, everyone will profit. The thought of war is appalling, and when one considers the reasons for it, a paradox appears. Seldom are they more than political, and usually, the hundred, if not thousands who die do so only out of patriotism or misguided  of command, and mismanage­ment of personnel. Only fools or "lifers" would deny this, and it is incomprehensible how such a situation could produce great fighting men-great numbers per­haps who shoot because they are shot at. A volunteer army would help to slacken the racial tensions, by ending the imbalance that has black men serving in the front  

loyalty. The provoking leaders lines at 3 times their proportion rarely engage in battle them­in the population (80% of the selves. Desmond Morris (author casualties in VietNam have been 
US soldiers "illed in crash 
of The Naked Ape) says this is draftees, not volunteers, until U.S. commanders ordered a
SAIGON (UPI) Eleven r.nd on Communist supply lines iherent in man as homo sapiens, recently). It would eliminate the 
reaction force of the U.S. 5th
American soldiers were killed <.cross the border in Laos leading and perhaps he is right, but if we need of coercing men to go to 
Mechanized Division helicopter­
and II more wounded yesterday to the drea, according to military are intelligent enough to under­war against their conscience, 
ed into the area. But shortly
when Communist gunners shot sources. stand a weakness, then we are forcing others into unhappy down a U.S. helicopter near the after the troops hit the ground, Across the border in intelligent enough to overcome marriages, or hapless studies the Communists opened fire
Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) and 2ambodia, military sources said it. I suppose it will be centuries only to avoid the draft. Incen­
with 60 and 82mm mortars
then fired mortar shells at a Viet Cong elements harrassed before we lay down our weapons tive, not compulsion, would help 
which killed two more Gis and
rescue force, U.S. military the stalled Cambodian task force in favor of the bargaining table, relieve the rediculous waste and wounded I 0 others, the sources
sources reported. near Tang Kauk, 4 7 miles north and, in the meantime, this na­restore a factor of pride so pre­said.
It was the heaviest American lf t1e capital of Phnom Penh tion's army must be, as Thomas valent in our military history.The sources said it could not In conclusion, the Gates Com­
losses in a single engagement in early yesterday with mortar fire. Jefferson said in his first inaugu­the Vietnam War in three weeks. be immediately determined A military officer with the task ral address, "well-disciplined, mission provided an excellent whether any of the Communist force said the Cambodians suf­summary when it said:
According to the sources, a our best reliance in peace, and 
UH I "Huey" helicopter was pre­fire came from inside the DMZ. f<!red a "few" casualties but gave for the first moments of war, till "The Founding Fathers feared paring to drop off a six man The American losses were the · o specific number. regulars may relieve them." He conscription by the central Ranger team on a long range heaviest since a U.S. CH47 Military sources in Phnom was referring to a strong defen­government would lead to un­reconnaissance patrol when it t roopcarrying Chinook heli­i enh said Brig. Gen. Neak Sam, sive force, and our army. in its necessary abridgement of per­was hit by Communist fire six copter was shot down Aug. 27 . ommander of the 4,000-man present state, is doubtfully that. sonal freedoms. Until the Civil 
over the northern Quang Tin War there was no draft; the
miles west of the Allied base at ( ambodian force encircled by Vic-President Agnew, in one province and 32 Gis were killed system of compulsory service
Gio Linh and one-half mile i\orth Vietnamese and Viet of his fits of flaming rhetoric, south of the DMZ separating and several others injured. Cong tt·o,)pS, flew to the capita! described United States soldiers instituted in 1863 was born of North and South Vietnam. Saturday night for urgent con­as the best fighting men on necessity and was, in any even,
Bomb Supply Lines 
on far short of being comprehen­.erences with Premier Lon Nol. earth. After spending time

Copter Destroyed 
In other actions in Vietnam · 'hey said the discussions con­active duty this past summer, I sive. In both 1917 and 1940 the The helicopter and U.S. B52 bombers would agree that are draft emerged again as a wartime
crashed yesterday cerned future action for the task they per­was destroyed, the sources said, concentrated almost their entire force which comprises the big­haps the best equippped and expedient. In 1948 the Selective killing nine of the Gis aboard destructive power near em­gest Cambodian action in the undoubtedly the best fed, but Service System was revived to and wounding one. battled combat base "O'Reilly" W'lr. certainly not superior fighting maintain preparedness for cold 
men. I saw dissension, apathy was crises. After the Koren War, and almost outright hatred for it remained in existence and the army and superior officers. I once again was an important saw horrible work hours source of manpower when the mah:hed on the other hand by nation became deeply involved 




5w?sH~~o~ (U~>nt~~!~~~!~~~~~:~ri%~~~~;~ 
endless boredom, very poor in Vietnam in 1965. 
About 90 per cent of Negro minority group children do not He said there are 62 per cent children in the South are attend-have the same educational bl
more ack children attendinging desegregpted schools this fall, opportunities as white pupils. Negro schools this September 
Martha strikes again
HEW Secretary Elliot L. Rich-But to do so in many large cities than at the start of the 1969 snapped: "The whole academic
ardson said yesterday· Rich-would require substantial schu· . school eyar. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Mrs. society is to blame ... the profes­
ardson said the "relative calm" busing, a process which he saH• While a substantial number Martha Ml.tchell, outspoken wife sors in every institution of learn­in which the process had been had been Iarely curtailed by of black children attend schools of the attorney general, Sunday carried out was "a remarkable congressional action. with predominantly black blamed America's professors and ingS~e declared that had educa­achievement and one for which The Nixon administration's enrollemnt, "the number who educators for destroying the tors not adopted "a leftist" po­ptiblic school systems in the approach, Richardson said, was are attending desegregated country. "They are totally re-litical philosophy, "They wouldSouth and the oennlf~ of the that "a certain amount of busing schools is by far the great sponsible for the sins of our lead the path of AmericanismSouth, both1 black and white, usually involving majority,"hesaid. 
children," she said. 
deserve a great deal ot credit. redistribution of children among Asked about the fate of the The blonde cabinet wife de-. rather than the path of Com­Richardson, who was the existing schools is administration's welfare reform 
munism."
nounced educator in comments 
Mrs. Mitchell telephoned a
Number 2 man at the State necessary." bill, Richardson said Nixon had to UPJ expressed in irritation 
UPl reporter at home, irate over over a published report quoting the published report of her hus-Department before coming to But long distance busing that personally talked with each 
the Health, Education and interferes with schooling itself is Republican member of teh her husband, John N. Mitchell, band's statement at a Women'sWelfare Department in June, not desirable, he said. Senate Finance Committee in an 
1 
as calling educators "stupid bas-made hi~ co~ments on a Richardson pointed out that effort to budge the measure tards who are running our edu-Press Club cocktail party cational institutions." Wednesday. A spokesman for 
the attorney general described
:::·~.;:::~~;;;;~; mtemew (NBC) Meet -''''i~t!~; :tf:!l~:~ft~!:frJ~~"-~';,~!f,)),~,~-»''"''"J "The academi\: is
society re­
sponsible for all of our troubles the report as "distorted and Pre-Law Society :::: highly inaccurate." 
in this country," Mrs. Mitchell Mrs. Mitchell dismissed the 
::·::::::::::. Mon. Sept. 21 at 7:30 :::: said. "These are people that areEngln. Aud. ~~~~ report in Women's Wear Daily as
destroying our country." 
"ridiculous" but then voiced herAsked if she was referring to own attack against "the academ­any particular educators, she idans."
~:,.,,,,.,,,.,,,,,"'''"'"'''"'''''''' ::.:::::;;;~;;;~,0,;;;:;::,:;;,::.:.:,, '"'''''"'"'='"""""''""'J] 


Bandito Baits 

BIG BOLD BRASSY 
If you can't catch a Bandito here in town, write us. 

•.,..,,_,···-·~:..~~::~~.:-.::!~ [SALVATORf!I 





"Pound. Pound. Pound. That's their offense." These were the words of Northwest~::rn ~oa~h Alex Agase after his Wild~ats had absorbed a 35-14 pasting by the Irish. As these pictures might suggest, Agase has a point. 
Not only was the offense devestating, but the defense as exemplified by Mr. Walter Patulski also had theri more playful moments. 
Scott Hempel kept his toe limbered up and he made good on five of five conversions. 
The big names of the day were Denny Allan who s~ored three TO's and Tom Gatewood who caught seven passes. (Asthe little Irish fan in the background of the Gatewood photo might suggest <' touchdown, Tom was stopped on the NU six. 
And of course there was Joe Theismann, who Agase referred to as "cute." Here Joe docs one of his cuter things, a nine yard touchdown sprint. 





Irish dump Wildcats 
(Continued from Page 8) 
In general, this was a pleasing s,!owed well, too. The line­victory for the Irish. The offen­backers played heads up football sive line was very impressive, 
throughout the afternoon. They especially on running plays. 
made most of the tackles (asEven if he was sick, Tom 
they should in the 4-4-3 set up).Gatewood looked like he has a 
The defensive secondary held chance for All-America consider­
Daigneau to ten of 32 passes but ation if he turns in comparable the NU receivers dropped a few performances throughout the easy chances to save some season. Joe Theismann played a em harassment for the Irish 
creditable game although his 
"three deep."
passing wasn't quite as sharp as The squad must now turn its it usually is. 
attention to a familiar foe,The defense was impressive. 
Purdue. If anyone needs 
Northwestern never really scored reminding it has been FOUR a bonafide touchdown on it. 
YEARS since Notre Dame ha~ 
Patulski was a bear at his end beaten a Boilermaker team. How 
spot and the rest of the line much longer will the streak last? 

---------~~---------­
~P=ag~e8~_______________________________ZNB0it!IUER Monday, September 21, 1970 


Irish pound Wildcats Purdue next 
but neither team managed to

yearly upset. Considering NO Irish had full control of the backer John Vorhees. (By
by Terry Shields 
' reach pay dirt. Northwestern

beat a good Northwestern ball situation. There was one brief "Northwestern" statistics
Observer Sports Editor 
club that will make some noise period in the second quarter Vorhees was in on 27 tackles came close once but Mike Webb, The Irish didn't do a bad job, this season in the Big Ten con­when Barry Pearson got the which is a truly remarkable per­a second team linebacker, came 
considering. Considering Tom ference standings. hometown fans a little excited formance.) through with an interception to Gatewood was playing a full Yes, Notre Dame played a with a sensational 71 yard punt Maurie Daigneau, the NU lock the verdict at 35-14. game with a case of the flu. very good ball game and won by return that temporarily tied the quarterback, led his offense on a After the game NU coach 
Alex Agase complimented his

Considering many "experts" had a point more than the bookies score at 14. Notre Dame did twenty yard drive mainly on the former boss Ara Parseghian on
picked this weekend and not had spotted the Wildcats, 35-14. exactly what it had to do in this running of Mike Adamle, the next for the Irish to absorb their From the opening drive the situation and ran the ball back game's leading rusher with 85 
having his team so obviously ready for the game. He alsodown NU's throat to establish yards in 17 carries. The drive thought Joe Theismann did aexactly who the superior team almost stalled when an aroused great job. "That Theismann is

was. Irish defense stiffened near its pretty cute. He was damn goodThe first Irish score came own goal but Daigneau hurled on third and fourth downs andafter a drive that coaches dream himself for the touchdown from those quick feet of his can beat
about. Denny Allan, Bill Barz one yard out. 
you on the ground as well as hisand Ed Gulyas took turns churn­This score seemed to give the throwing arm in the air."

ing through holes created by a Wildcats new life. The defense Agase must have known some­line whose ability had been finally stopped NO and Jim thing about Notre Dame's of­doubted before the opener. Each Yoder's first punt of the season fense that Parseghian didn't. Araman was getting between five to was a line drive that gave was worried about the offensive
ten yards per try. Quarterback Pearson ,enough running room to line but Alex seemed to expect a
Joe Theismann wasn't content utilize his many moves and the Grade A performance. "Theywith these "small" gainers so he junior flanker rambled 71 yards didn't surprise me in the least.
made his first pass of the season for the tying points. Pound. Pound. Pound. That's
a 38 yard strike to his favorite It was the next series of their offense. They're so strongreceiver Tom Gatewood. This downs that proved to be the it's rough imagining how to stopcombo hooked up seven times most important of the day for them."
during the afternoon against one l rish fans. Once again the Irish The Northwestern secondaryof the Big Ten's bef:t secon-backsjust ground up the yardage did do a fine job most of thedaries. Not bad for a sick man. as Larry DiNardo and friends day. They held Theis mann farcleared tremendous paths. Allan
Denny Allan who scored three 
below his usual completion per­scored his second TO from three

times during the day's prece­
centage. Joe was eight of 19 and

dings had the honor of Iugging yards out. 
last season he hit over 55% of histhe pigskin for the first Irish TO When the Irish got the ball passes. Jack Dustin won praiseof the season. It came on a six again there was under three from Agase even though his man

yard run. minutes remaining in the half (Gatewood) caught seven aerials.
After the defense permitted but the Roadrunner coaly led Gatewood beat him on the firstone first down, Theismann and his forces t0 another score pass play by the Irish but after company began another drive hitting Gatewood twice and Barz the game Dustin said hecommencing at the NO 25. Once once in the drive. The latter for "slipped". To a person that was

again the backs took turns fol­a decisive fourth touchdown. 
watching Gatewood closely onlowing their fine offensive line The final N D score came after that play it looked more likefor most of the yardage. an alert Walt Patulski recovered Tom faked Dustin to the

Theismann displayed his value as a fumble on the NU 26. It took a scrambler when he could find the Irish eight plays to score (Continued on Page 7) no one open and took it in from from here. Allan got the hat the nine for the second Notre trick by scoring his third tally 
Attention! 

Dame score. from the one on fourth down. 
Ladies of Good Taste

The defense held again and The remainder of the game the Irish offense made its only showed some offensive power real mistake of the afternoon. Barz funbled and the Wildcats 
Become part ofa noble exper­

.. recovered in the person of line-Attention 
ment Sponsored by the Blue Circle

Swlmn181S

Statistics-A good start 
*Liberate Yourself There will be a meeting this 
*Add the Feminine Mystique to 


TEAM STATISTICS NU NO Minnix evening for anyone interested in
7 29

FArst Downs Rushing 
7 21 Gutowski 1 0 0 trying out for the Notre Dame 
The Notre Dame Meat Squad!

First Downs Passing 
8 8 Cieszkowski 3 15 0 0 swimming team, according to 
Protect and Defend the Irish

First Down by Penalty 
2 1 Steenberge 1 3 0 Coach Dennis Stark.This meet­
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 
Marching Band 
17 30 Johnson 
3 16 0 ing will take place in the Rockne

Number Attempts Rushing 35 79 
for inform.: J.Dcnnis ThorntonMemorial Building Room 21 6.

Yards Gained Rushing 
140 RECEIVING 
NO 
Meat Head-8440

353 YDS TO Freshmen are to be present at
Yards Lost Rushing 23 Gatewood 
NET YARDS RUSHING 6 7 111 0 6: 3 0. Upperclassmen should 
Wm. 0. Schmidt,
134 330 
17

Number Passes Attempted 33 19 Barz appear at the same place at 5:00 
Meat Ball-1295 Number Passes Completed 11 PASSING ATT p.m.
8 COMP INT YDS TO Number Passes Had lnJercepted 1 0 Theismann 19 8 
0 128 1 NET YARDS PASSING 135 128 Number plays Total 68 98 
PUNTING NOAVG AVGTOTAL OFFENSE 269 458 

3 40 MAJOR LEAGUES
YoderNumber Interceptions 0 1 Roolf 

1 41

Yards Interceptions Returned 0 11 NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE Number Times Punted 3 4 PUNT RETURNS NO YDS Number Punts Had Blocl<ed 0 0 Nightingale 2 9 L Pet. GB East w L Pet. GB
East w PUNTING AVERAGE 45 40 KICKOFF RETURNS NO YDS 98 54 .645
Pittsburgh 82 70 .540 Baltimore 

Number Punts Returned 4 2 Nightingale 3 56 Chicago 80 72 .527 2 New York 86 67 .563 12% NET YARDS PUNTS RT'D. 113 9 New York 79 74 .517 3% Boston 80 73 .524 18% Number Kickoffs Returned 6 3 St. Louis 72 81 .470 10% Detroit 76 76 .500 22%
NORTHWESTERN Yards Kickoff Returned 94 56 83 .458 12% Cleveland 74 79 .485 23%
Philndelphia 70

RUSHING ATT YDS TO Number Times Penalized 4 5 Montreal 67 85 .441 15 Washington 70 81 .464 27%
Adamle 
17 85 0

TOTAL YARDS PENALIZED 28 33 Daigneau 
7 
27 1 West

Number Times Fumbled 2 2 West
Pearson 2 4 0 Cicinnati 96 58 .624 Minnesota 92 60 .606
NUMBER FUMBLES LOST Robinson 9 18 0 *Los Angeles82 69 .543 12% Oakland 84 69 .530 8%RECEIVING NO YDS TO San Fran. 82 70 .540 13 California 80 72 .526 12Brown 
NOTRE DAME 14 14 7 0 35 Craig 3 45 0 Atlanta 74 80 .477 22 Kansas City 59 91 .393 322 28 0 *Houston
NORTHWESTERN 0 14 0 0 14 Adamle 72 79 .477 22)1, Milwaukee 59 93 .388 33
5 San Diego
1 0 59 94 .386 36)1, Chicago 53 96 .359 37)1,Robinson

SCORING 2 11 
0 ~ NO: Allan 6 run, Hempel kick Lash 3 46 0 New York 4-5 Pittsburgh 1-9 Minnesota 8 Chicago 1 
NO: Theismann 9 run, Hempel kick PASSING ATT 
COMP INT YDS TO Montreal 6 Chicago 4 Milwaukee 4 Kansas City 3 NU: Daigneau 1 run, Planisek kick Daigneau 32 10 1 120 Atlanta 11 Cincinnati 2
0 California 4 Oakland 2 NU: Pearson 71 punt return, Planisek kick Adamle 1 1 0 Philadelphia 7 St. Louis 4
15 0 Baltimore 7 Cleveland 0 NO: ALL Los Angeles 5 Houston 5, 11th inn. New York 5 Detroit 1 NO: Allan 3 run, Hempel kick PUNTING NO AVG Only Games Scheduled 
Boston 3 Washington 1 

NO: Barz 17 pass from Theismann, Hempel kick  McGann  5  45  
NO: Allan 1 run, Hempel Kick  
PUNT RETURNS  NO  YDS  
NOTRE DAME  Pearson  4  113  
RUSHING  ATT  YDS  TO  
Theismann  19  61  1  KICKOFF RETURNS  NO  YDS  
Allan  19  86  3  Brown  4  67  
Gulyas  13  63  0  Dustin  13  
Barz  13  57  0  Cooks  14  






